Columbus (/kəˈlʌmbəs/; kə-LUM-bəs) is the capital and largest city of the 
U.S. state of Ohio. It is the 15th largest city in the United States,[17] 
with a population of 850,106 (2015 estimate).[13] It is the core city of 
the Columbus, OH Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA), which encompasses 
a ten county area.[18] It is Ohio's third largest metropolitan area, behind 
Cleveland and Cincinnati. Under the Combined Statistical Area (CSA) model, 
the Columbus, OH Metropolitan Statistical Area was the 25th largest in 
the United States.[19] According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the Columbus-Marion-Zanesville, 
OH Combined Statistical Area (which also includes Marion, Chillicothe, 
and Mount Vernon) has a population of 2,424,831, making it the second largest 
metropolitan area in Ohio behind Cleveland.[19] It is also the fourth most 
populous state capital in the United States, and the third largest city 
in the Midwestern United States.[13][20] Columbus is the county seat of 
Franklin County.[21] The city proper has also expanded and annexed portions 
of adjoining Delaware County and Fairfield County. Named for explorer Christopher 
Columbus, the city was founded in 1812 at the confluence of the Scioto 
and Olentangy rivers, and assumed the functions of state capital in 1816. 
The city has a diverse economy based on education, government, insurance, 
banking, fashion, defense, aviation, food, clothes, logistics, steel, energy, 
medical research, health care, hospitality, retail, and technology. Columbus 
is home to the Battelle Memorial Institute, the world's largest private 
research and development foundation; Chemical Abstracts Service, the world's 
largest clearinghouse of chemical information; NetJets, the world's largest 
fractional ownership jet aircraft fleet; and The Ohio State University, 
one of the largest universities in the United States. As of 2013[update], 
the city has the headquarters of five corporations in the U.S. Fortune 
500: Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company, American Electric Power, L Brands, 
Big Lots, and Cardinal Health.[22] The food service corporations Wendy's, 
Donatos Pizza, Bob Evans, Max & Erma's and White Castle along with nationally 
known companies Red Roof Inn, Rogue Fitness and Safelite are also based 
in the Columbus, Ohio metropolitan area. In 2012, Columbus was ranked in 
BusinessWeek's 50 best cities in America.[23] In 2013, Forbes gave Columbus 
an "A" rating as one of the top cities for business in the U.S.,[24] and 
later that year included the city on its list of Best Places for Business 
and Careers.[25] Columbus was also ranked as the no. 1 up-and-coming tech 
city in the nation by Forbes in 2008,[26] and the city was ranked a top 
ten city by Relocate America in 2010.[27][28] In 2007, fDi Magazine ranked 
the city no. 3 in the U.S. for cities of the future,[29] and the Columbus 
Zoo and Aquarium was rated no. 1 in 2009 by USA Travel Guide.[30] The area 
including modern-day Columbus once comprised the Ohio Country,[31] under 
the nominal control of the French colonial empire through the Viceroyalty 
of New France from 1663 until 1763. In the 18th century European traders 
flocked to the area, attracted by the fur trade.[32] The area found itself 
frequently caught between warring factions, including American Indian and 
European interests. In the 1740s, Pennsylvania traders overran the territory 
until the French forcibly evicted them.[33] In the early 1750s the Ohio 
Company sent George Washington to the Ohio Country to survey. Fighting 
for control of the territory in the French and Indian War (1754-1763) became 
part of the international Seven Years' War (1756-1763). During this period 
the region routinely suffered turmoil, massacres and battles. The 1763 
Treaty of Paris ceded the Ohio Country to the British Empire. After the 
American Revolution, the Ohio Country became part of the Virginia Military 
District, under the control of the United States. Colonists from the East 
Coast moved in, but rather than finding an empty frontier, they encountered 
people of the Miami, Delaware, Wyandot, Shawnee, and Mingo nations, as 
well as European traders. The tribes resisted expansion by the fledgling 
United States, leading to years of bitter conflict. The decisive Battle 
of Fallen Timbers resulted in the Treaty of Greenville, which finally opened 
the way for new settlements. By 1797, a young surveyor from Virginia named 
Lucas Sullivant had founded a permanent settlement on the west bank of 
the forks of the Scioto River and Olentangy River. An admirer of Benjamin 
Franklin, Sullivant chose to name his frontier village "Franklinton".[34] 
The location was desirable for its proximity to navigable rivers—but Sullivant 
was initially foiled when, in 1798, a large flood wiped out the new settlement.[35] 
He persevered, and the village was rebuilt. After Ohio achieved statehood 
in 1803, political infighting among prominent Ohio leaders led to the state 
capital moving from Chillicothe to Zanesville and back again. The State 
legislature decided a new capital city in the state's center was a necessary 
compromise. They chose Columbus because of its central location and proximity 
to major transportation routes (primarily rivers). The legislature chose 
it as the capital over a number of other competitors, including Franklinton, 
Dublin, Worthington, and Delaware. Prior to the state legislature's decision 
in 1812, Columbus did not exist. The city was designed to be the state 
capital. Named in honor of Christopher Columbus, the capital city was founded 
on February 14, 1812, on the "High Banks opposite Franklinton at the Forks 
of the Scioto most known as Wolf's Ridge."[36] At the time, this area was 
a dense forestland, used only as a hunting ground.[37] The "Burough of 
Columbus" [sic] was officially established on February 10, 1816.[38] Nine 
people were elected to fill the various positions of Mayor, Treasurer, 
and several others. Although the recent War of 1812 had brought prosperity 
to the area, the subsequent recession and conflicting claims to the land 
threatened the new town's success. Early conditions were abysmal with frequent 
bouts of fevers and an outbreak of cholera in 1833.[39] The National Road 
reached Columbus from Baltimore in 1831, which complemented the city's 
new link to the Ohio and Erie Canal and facilitated a population boom.[40] 
A wave of European immigrants led to the creation of two ethnic enclaves 
on the city's outskirts. A large Irish population settled in the north 
along Naghten Street (presently Nationwide Boulevard), while the Germans 
took advantage of the cheap land to the south, creating a community that 
came to be known as the Das Alte Südende (The Old South End). Columbus's 
German population constructed numerous breweries, Trinity Lutheran Seminary, 
and Capital University.[41] With a population of 3,500, Columbus was officially 
chartered as a city on March 3, 1834. On that day the legislature carried 
out a special act, which granted legislative authority to the city council 
and judicial authority to the mayor. Elections were held in April of that 
year, with voters choosing one John Brooks as the first mayor.[42] Columbus 
annexed the then-separate city of Franklinton in 1837.[43] In 1850, the 
Columbus and Xenia Railroad became the first railroad into the city, followed 
by the Cleveland, Columbus and Cincinnati Railroad in 1851. The two railroads 
built a joint Union Station on the east side of High Street just north 
of Naghten (then called North Public Lane). Rail traffic into Columbus 
increased—by 1875, eight railroads served Columbus, and the rail companies 
built a new, more elaborate station.[44] On January 7, 1857, the Ohio Statehouse 
finally opened after 18 years of construction.[45] Before the abolition 
of slavery in the South in 1863, the Underground Railroad was active in 
Columbus; led, in part, by James Preston Poindexter.[46] Poindexter arrived 
in Columbus in the 1830s and became a Baptist Preacher and leader in the 
city's African-American community until the turn of the century.[47] During 
the Civil War, Columbus was a major base for the volunteer Union Army. 
It housed 26,000 troops and held up to 9,000 Confederate prisoners of war 
at Camp Chase, at what is now the Hilltop neighborhood of west Columbus. 
Over 2,000 Confederate soldiers remain buried at the site, making it one 
of the North's largest Confederate cemeteries.[48] North of Columbus, along 
the Delaware Road, the Regular Army established Camp Thomas, where the 
18th U.S. Infantry organized and trained. By virtue of the Morrill Land-Grant 
Colleges Act, the Ohio Agricultural and Mechanical College (which became 
The Ohio State University) founded in 1870 on the former estate of William 
and Hannah Neil.[49] . By the end of the 19th century, Columbus was home 
to several major manufacturing businesses. The city became known as the 
"Buggy Capital of the World," thanks to the two dozen buggy factories—notably 
the Columbus Buggy Company, founded in 1875 by C.D. Firestone[citation 
needed]. The Columbus Consolidated Brewing Company also rose to prominence 
during this time, and might have achieved even greater success were it 
not for the Anti-Saloon League in neighboring Westerville.[50] In the steel 
industry, a forward-thinking man named Samuel P. Bush presided over the 
Buckeye Steel Castings Company. Columbus was also a popular location for 
labor organizations. In 1886, Samuel Gompers founded the American Federation 
of Labor in Druid's Hall on S. Fourth Street, and in 1890 the United Mine 
Workers of America was founded at old City Hall.[51] In 1894, James Thurber, 
who would go on to an illustrious literary career in Paris and New York 
City, was born in the city. Today the Ohio State's theater department has 
a performance center named in his honor, and his youthful home near the 
Discovery District is on the National Register of Historic Places. "The 
Columbus Experiment" was an internationally recognized environmental project 
in 1908, which involved construction of the first water plant in the world 
to apply filtration and softening, designed and invented by two brothers, 
Clarence and Charles Hoover. Those working to construct the project included 
Jeremiah O'Shaughnessy, name-bearer of the Columbus metropolitan area's 
O'Shaughnessy Dam. This invention helped drastically reduce typhoid deaths. 
The essential design is still used today.[52] Columbus earned one of its 
nicknames, The Arch City, because of the dozens of wooden arches that spanned 
High Street at the turn of the 20th century. The arches illuminated the 
thoroughfare and eventually became the means by which electric power was 
provided to the new streetcars. The city tore down the arches and replaced 
them with cluster lights in 1914 but reconstructed them from metal in the 
Short North district in 2002 for their unique historical interest.[53] 
On March 25, 1913, the Great Flood of 1913 devastated the neighborhood 
of Franklinton, leaving over ninety people dead and thousands of West Side 
residents homeless. To prevent flooding, the Army Corps of Engineers recommended 
widening the Scioto River through downtown, constructing new bridges, and 
building a retaining wall along its banks. With the strength of the post-World 
War I economy, a construction boom occurred in the 1920s, resulting in 
a new Civic center, the Ohio Theatre, the American Insurance Union Citadel, 
and, to the north, a massive new Ohio Stadium.[54] Although the American 
Professional Football Association was founded in Canton in 1920, its head 
offices moved to Columbus in 1921 to the New Hayden Building and remained 
in the city until 1941. In 1922, the association's name was changed to 
the National Football League.[55] A decade later, in 1931, at a convention 
in the city, the Jehovah's Witnesses took that name by which they are known 
today. The effects of the Great Depression were somewhat less severe in 
Columbus, as the city's diversified economy helped it fare marginally better 
than its Rust Belt neighbors. World War II brought a tremendous number 
of new jobs, and with it another population surge. This time, the majority 
of new arrivals were migrants from the "extraordinarily depressed rural 
areas" of Appalachia, who would soon account for more than a third of Columbus's 
rising population.[56] In 1948, the Town and Country Shopping Center opened 
in suburban Whitehall, and it is now regarded as one of the first modern 
shopping centers in the United States.[57] The construction of the interstate 
highway signaled the arrival of rapid suburb development in central Ohio. 
To protect the city's tax base from this suburbanization, Columbus adopted 
a policy of linking sewer and water hookups to annexation to the city.[59] 
By the early 1990s, Columbus had grown to become Ohio's largest city in 
land area and in population. Efforts to revitalize downtown Columbus have 
had some success in recent decades,[citation needed] though like most major 
American cities, some architectural heritage was lost in the process. In 
the 1970s, landmarks such as Union Station and the Neil House Hotel were 
razed to construct high-rise offices and big retail space. The National 
City Bank building was constructed in 1977, as well as the Nationwide Plazas 
and other towers that sprouted during this period. The construction of 
the Greater Columbus Convention Center has brought major conventions and 
trade shows to the city. The Scioto Mile is a showcase park being developed 
along the riverfront, an area that already had the Miranova Corporate Center 
and The Condominiums at North Bank Park. Corporate interests have developed 
Capitol Square, including the local NBC affiliate at the corner of Broad 
and High. The 2010 United States foreclosure crisis forced the city to 
purchase numerous foreclosed, vacant properties to renovate or demolish 
them–at a cost of tens of millions of dollars. As of February 2011, Columbus 
had 6,117 vacant properties, according to city officials.[60] In 1907, 
14-year-old Cromwell Dixon built the SkyCycle, a pedal-powered blimp, which 
he flew at Driving Park.[61] Three years later, one of the Wright Brothers' 
exhibition pilots, Phillip Parmalee, conducted the world's first commercial 
cargo flight when he flew two packages containing 88 kilograms of silk 
70 miles (110 km) from Dayton to Columbus in a Wright Model B.[62] Military 
aviators from Columbus distinguished themselves during World War One. Six 
Columbus pilots, led by top ace Eddie Rickenbacker, achieved forty-two 
"kills" – a full 10% of all US aerial victories in the war, and more than 
the aviators of any other American city.[63] After the war, Port Columbus 
Airport became the axis of a coordinated rail-to-air transcontinental system 
that moved passengers from the East Coast to the West. TAT, which later 
became TWA, provided commercial service, following Charles Lindbergh's 
promotion of Columbus to the nation for such a hub. Following the failure 
of a bond levy in 1927 to build the airport, Lindbergh campaigned in the 
city in 1928, and the next bond levy passed that year.[61] On July 8, 1929 
the airport opened for business with the inaugural TAT west-bound flight 
from Columbus to Waynoka, Oklahoma. Among the 19 passengers on that flight 
was Amelia Earhart,[61] with Henry Ford and Harvey Firestone attending 
the opening ceremonies.[61] In 1964, Ohio native Geraldine Fredritz Mock 
became the first woman to fly around the world, leaving from Columbus and 
piloting the Spirit of Columbus. Her flight lasted nearly a month, and 
set a record for speed for planes under 3,858 pounds (1,750 kg).[64] The 
confluence of the Scioto and Olentangy rivers occurs just north-west of 
Downtown Columbus. Several smaller tributaries course through the Columbus 
metropolitan area, including Alum Creek, Big Walnut Creek, and Darby Creek. 
Columbus is considered to have relatively flat topography thanks to a large 
glacier that covered most of Ohio during the Wisconsin Ice Age. However, 
there are sizable differences in elevation through the area, with the high 
point of Franklin County being 1,132 ft (345 m) above sea level near New 
Albany, and the low point being 670 ft (200 m) where the Scioto River leaves 
the county near Lockbourne.[65] Numerous ravines near the rivers and creeks 
also add variety to the landscape. Tributaries to Alum Creek and the Olentangy 
River cut through shale, while tributaries to the Scioto River cut through 
limestone. According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a 
total area of 223.11 square miles (577.85 km2), of which 217.17 square 
miles (562.47 km2) is land and 5.94 square miles (15.38 km2) is water.[11] 
Arena District Brewery District Clintonville Downtown East Columbus Easton 
Town Center Forest Park Franklinton German Village Harrison West Italian 
Village King-Lincoln Bronzeville Merion Village Near East Side Northland 
Old Oaks Olde Towne East The Short North University District Uptown Victorian 
Village The city's climate is humid continental (Köppen climate classification 
Dfa) transitional with the humid subtropical climate to the south characterized 
by hot, muggy summers and cold, dry winters. Columbus is within USDA hardiness 
zone 6a. Winter snowfall is relatively light, since the city is not in 
the typical path of strong winter lows, such as the Nor'easters that strike 
cities farther east. It is also too far south and west for lake-effect 
snow from Lake Erie to have much effect, although the lakes to the North 
do contribute to long stretches of cloudy spells in winter. The highest 
temperature ever recorded in Columbus was 106 °F (41 °C), which occurred 
twice during the Dust Bowl of the 1930s—once on July 21, 1934, and again 
on July 14, 1936.[66] The lowest temperature ever recorded was −22 °F (−30 °C), 
occurring on January 19, 1994.[66] (wind chill was −63 °F (−53 °C)). Columbus 
is subject to severe weather typical to the Midwestern United States. Severe 
thunderstorms can bring lightning, large hail and on rare occasion tornadoes, 
especially during the spring and sometimes through fall. A tornado which 
occurred on October 11, 2006 caused F2 damage.[67] Floods, blizzards, and 
ice storms can also occur from time to time. In 1900, whites made up 93.4% 
of the population.[75] Though European immigration has been on a decline, 
the Columbus metropolitan area has recently experienced increases in African, 
Asian, and Latin American immigration, including groups from Mexico, India, 
Somalia, and China. Although the Asian population is diverse, the city's 
Hispanic community is mainly made up of Mexicans, though there is a notable 
Puerto Rican population as well.[77] Many other countries of origin are 
represented in lesser numbers, largely due to the international draw of 
The Ohio State University. 2008 estimates indicate that roughly 116,000 
of the city's residents are foreign-born, accounting for 82% of the new 
residents between 2000–2006 at a rate of 105 per week.[78] 40% of the immigrants 
came from Asia, 23% from Africa, 22% from Latin America, and 13% from Europe.[78] 
The city had the second largest Somali and Somalian American population 
in the country, as of 2004.[79] Due to its demographics, which include 
a mix of races and a wide range of incomes, as well as urban, suburban, 
and nearby rural areas, Columbus is considered a "typical" American city, 
leading retail and restaurant chains to use it as a test market for new 
products.[80] Columbus is home to a proportional LGBT community, with an 
estimated 34,952 gay, lesbian, or bisexual residents.[81] It has been rated 
as one of the best cities in the country for gays and lesbians to live, 
and also as the most underrated gay city in the country.[82] In July 2012, 
the Columbus City Council unanimously passed a domestic partnership registry.[83] 
As of the 2000 census, 711,470 people, 301,534 households, and 165,240 
families lived in the city. The population density was 3,383.6 inhabitants 
per square mile (1,306.4/km2). There were 327,175 housing units at an average 
density of 1,556.0 per square mile (600.8/km2). The racial makeup of the 
city was 67.93% White, 24.47% Black or African American, 0.29% Native American, 
3.44% Asian, 0.05% Pacific Islander, 1.17% from other races, and 2.65% 
from two or more races. 2.46% of the population were Hispanic or Latino 
of any race. The five most common ancestries reported were German (19.4%), 
Irish (11.7%), English (7.9%), Polish (7.2%), and Italian (5.0%).[84] There 
were 301,534 households out of which 28.0% had children under the age of 
18 living with them, 36.1% were married couples living together and 45.2% 
were non-families. 34.1% of all households were made up of individuals 
and 7.0% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The 
average household size was 2.30 and the average family size was 3.01. The 
age distribution is 24.2% under the age of 18, 14.0% from 18 to 24, 35.1% 
from 25 to 44, 17.9% from 45 to 64, and 8.9% who were 65 years of age or 
older. The median age was 31 years. For every 100 females there were 94.6 
males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 91.9 males. The 
median income for a household in the city was $37,897, and the median income 
for a family was $47,391. Males had a median income of $35,138 versus $28,705 
for females. The per capita income for the city was $20,450. About 10.8% 
of families and 14.8% of the population were below the poverty line, including 
18.7% of those under age 18 and 10.9% of those age 65 or over. As of the 
census[12] of 2010, there were 787,033 people, 331,602 households, and 
176,037 families residing in the city. The population density was 3,624.0 
inhabitants per square mile (1,399.2/km2). There were 370,965 housing units 
at an average density of 1,708.2 per square mile (659.5/km2). The racial 
makeup of the city was 61.5% White, 28.0% African American, 0.3% Native 
American, 4.1% Asian, 0.1% Pacific Islander, 2.9% from other races, and 
3.3% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 5.6% of 
the population. Of the 331,602 households, 29.1% had children under the 
age of 18, 32.0% were married couples living together, 15.9% had a female 
householder with no husband present, 5.1% had a male householder with no 
wife present, and 46.9% were non-families. 35.1% of all households were 
made up of individuals and 7.2% had someone living alone who was 65 years 
of age or older. The average household size was 2.31 and the average family 
size was 3.04. The median age in the city was 31.2 years. 23.2% of residents 
were under the age of 18; 14% were between the ages of 18 and 24; 32.3% 
were from 25 to 44; 21.8% were from 45 to 64; and 8.6% were 65 years of 
age or older. The gender makeup of the city was 48.8% male and 51.2% female. 
According to the "2013 Japanese Direct Investment Survey" by the Consulate-General 
of Japan in Detroit, 705 Japanese nationals lived in Columbus,[85] making 
it the municipality with the state's second largest Japanese national population, 
after Dublin.[86] Columbus was ranked as the 15th most literate city in 
the country in 2008 by Central Connecticut State University,[87] and the 
19th best educated.[88] In 2006, Columbus was ranked by CNN Money as the 
8th best big city in the country to live in.[27] In 2012, Columbus was 
ranked by Bloomberg Businessweek as America's 20th Best City, the highest-ranked 
city in Ohio.[89] In 2010, the city was ranked as the second most manly 
city in the country by Sperling's BestPlaces,[90] up from number 7 in 2009.[91] 
Also, that same year, the Dole Nutrition Institute named Columbus as a 
top city for salad consumption.[92] In 2013, the Intelligent Communities 
Forum named Columbus the most intelligent city in the United States.[93] 
Columbus has a generally strong and diverse economy based on education, 
insurance, banking, fashion, defense, aviation, food, logistics, steel, 
energy, medical research, health care, hospitality, retail, and technology. 
In 2010, it was one of the 10 best big cities in the country, according 
to Relocate America, a real estate research firm.[28] MarketWatch ranked 
Columbus and its metro area as the No. 7 best place in the country to operate 
a business in 2008.[94] In 2012, Forbes Magazine ranked the city as the 
best city for working moms.[95] In 2007, the city was ranked No. 3 in the 
United States by fDi magazine for "Cities of the Future", and No. 4 for 
most business-friendly in the country.[29] Columbus was ranked as the seventh 
strongest economy in the United States in 2006, and the best in Ohio, according 
to Policom Corp.[96] In 2011, the Columbus metropolitan area's GDP was 
$94.7 billion,[97] up from $90 billion in 2009,[98] up from $85.5 billion 
in 2006,[99] $75.43 billion in 2005, and $69.98 billion in 2001.[100] During 
the recession beginning in late 2007, Columbus's economy was not impacted 
as much as the rest of the country, due to decades of diversification work 
by long-time corporate residents, business leaders, and political leaders. 
The administration of former mayor Michael B. Coleman continued this work, 
although the city faced financial turmoil and had to increase taxes, allegedly 
due in part to fiscal mismanagement.[101][102] Because Columbus is the 
state capital, there is a large government presence in the city. Including 
city, county, state, and federal employers, government jobs provide the 
largest single source of employment within Columbus. In 2013, the city 
had four corporations named to the U.S. Fortune 500 list: Nationwide Mutual 
Insurance Company, American Electric Power, L Brands, and Big Lots,[22] 
with Cardinal Health located in suburban Dublin.[98] Other major employers 
in the area include numerous schools (for example, The Ohio State University) 
and hospitals, hi-tech research and development including the Battelle 
Memorial Institute, information/library companies such as OCLC and Chemical 
Abstracts, financial institutions such as JP Morgan Chase and Huntington 
Bancshares, as well as Owens Corning. Wendy's and White Castle are also 
headquartered in Columbus. Major foreign corporations operating or with 
divisions in the city include Germany-based Siemens and Roxane Laboratories, 
Finland-based Vaisala, Tomasco Mulciber Inc., A Y Manufacturing, as well 
as Switzerland-based ABB Group and Mettler Toledo. Columbus is home to 
several notable buildings, including the Greek Revival State Capitol, the 
art-deco Ohio Judicial Center and the Peter Eisenman-designed Wexner Center 
and Greater Columbus Convention Center. Other buildings of interest include 
the Rhodes State Office Tower, LeVeque Tower, and One Nationwide Plaza. 
The Ohio Statehouse construction began in 1839 on a 10-acre (4 ha) plot 
of land donated by four prominent Columbus landowners. This plot formed 
Capitol Square, which was not part of the original layout of the city. 
Built of Columbus limestone from the Marble Cliff Quarry Co., the Statehouse 
stands on foundations 18 feet (5.5 m) deep, laid by prison labor gangs 
rumored to have been composed largely of masons jailed for minor infractions.[103] 
The Statehouse features a central recessed porch with a colonnade of a 
forthright and primitive Greek Doric mode. A broad and low central pediment 
supports the windowed astylar drum under an invisibly low saucer dome that 
lights the interior rotunda. Unlike many U.S. state capitol buildings, 
the Ohio State Capitol owes little to the architecture of the national 
Capitol. During the long course of the Statehouse's 22 years of construction, 
seven architects were employed. Relations between the legislature and the 
architects were not always cordial: Nathan B. Kelly, who introduced heating 
and an ingenious system of natural forced ventilation, was dismissed because 
the commissioners found his designs too lavish for the original intentions 
of the committee. The Statehouse was opened to the legislature and the 
public in 1857 and finally completed in 1861. It is located at the intersection 
of Broad and High Streets in downtown Columbus. In 1941, a New Deal artist 
named Rainey Bennett painted a 13 panel oil on canvas mural for the Neil 
House Hotel in Columbus.[104] The building was destroyed to make way for 
the Huntington Center and the whereabouts of the panels are unknown. Founded 
in 1975, The Jefferson Center for Learning and the Arts is a campus of 
nonprofit organizations and a center for research, publications, and seminars 
on nonprofit leadership and governance. Located at the eastern edge of 
downtown Columbus, The Jefferson Center has restored 11 turn-of-the-century 
homes, including the childhood residence of James Thurber. These locations 
are used for nonprofits in human services, education and the arts.[105] 
A to-scale replica of the Santa Maria is found on the Scioto Riverfront. 
It was installed in 1992 to commemorate the 500-year anniversary of the 
discovery of America by Columbus's namesake. As of 2013[update], the Santa 
Maria has been removed from the riverfront to make way for the Scioto Greenways 
project, a restoration of the Scioto River through downtown. Currently 
there are no plans to return the replica as it needs significant renovations. 
Within the Driving Park heritage district lies the original home of Eddie 
Rickenbacker, the famous WWI fighter pilot ace. Reconstruction of the home 
is underway. Established in 1848, Green Lawn Cemetery is one of the largest 
cemeteries in the Midwestern United States. The Ohio Statehouse, Capitol 
Square LeVeque Tower, Downtown Replica of Christopher Columbus's ship, 
The Santa Maria, Downtown riverfront Franklin Park Conservatory, Franklin 
Park The Columbus Museum of Art opened in 1931, and has a collection focusing 
on European and American art up to early modernism that includes extraordinary 
examples of Impressionism, German Expressionism and Cubism.[106] The Wexner 
Center for the Arts, a contemporary art gallery and research facility, 
is located on the Campus of The Ohio State University. Also on campus is 
the Ohio State University Athletics Hall of Fame, located in the Jerome 
Schottenstein Center (home of the basketball and men's ice hockey teams), 
as well as the Jack Nicklaus museum next door. Located on 88 acres (36 ha), 
just east of Downtown in Franklin Park, the Franklin Park Conservatory 
is a botanical garden that opened in 1895. COSI Columbus, (Center of Science 
and Industry), is a large science museum. The present building, the former 
Central High School, was completed in November 1999, opposite downtown 
on the west bank of the River. In 2009, Parents magazine named COSI one 
of the ten best Science Centers for families in the country.[107] The Ohio 
History Connection is headquartered in Columbus, with its flagship museum, 
the 250,000-square-foot (23,000 m2) Ohio History Center, located 4 mi (6.4 km) 
north of downtown. Along with the museum is Ohio Village, a replica of 
a village around the time of the American Civil War. The Kelton House Museum 
and Garden is a museum devoted to Victorian life. Built in 1852, it was 
home to three generations of the Kelton Family and was a documented station 
on the Underground Railroad. In 1989, Columbus hosted the "Son of Heaven: 
Imperial Arts of China," a cultural exchange display from China featuring 
the artifacts of the ancient Chinese emperors. According to Sperling's 
BestPlaces, 37.6% of Columbus residents are religious. Of this group, 15.7% 
identify as Protestant, 13.7% as Catholic, 1.5% as Jewish, 0.6% as Muslim, 
and 0.5% as Mormon.[108] Places of worship include ISKCON Columbus, Trinity 
Episcopal Church, Global Community United Methodist Church, Christian Community 
Church North, the Glenwood United Methodist Church, Broad Street United 
Methodist Church, First Unitarian Universalist Church of Columbus, Second 
Presbyterian Church, St. Paul's Episcopal Church, Shiloh Baptist Church, 
Roman Catholic Church's St. Joseph's Cathedral, (the seat of the Roman 
Catholic Diocese of Columbus), the St. Thomas More Newman Center (Catholic), 
Holy Name Catholic Church, Our Lady of Peace Catholic Church, Columbus 
Chinese Christian Church, All Nations Christian Fellowship (ANCF), Veritas 
Community Church, the Indianola Church of Christ, the Greek Orthodox Church's 
Annunciation Cathedral, North Columbus Friends Meeting (Quaker), The Church 
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Columbus Ohio Temple, Russian Baptist 
Fellowship in Westerville, Russian Baptist Church of Columbus (in Dublin, 
OH), the Ahlul Bayt Islamic Center, the Muslim Noor Islamic Cultural Center, 
Beth Jacob Synagogue (Orthodox Jewish) and the Reform Jewish Temple Israel, 
the oldest synagogue in Columbus, Life Church at Easton in NE Columbus 
and The First Baptist Church of Columbus, Ohio, one of the oldest baptist 
churches in Columbus located in East Columbus. Megachurches include Xenos 
Christian Fellowship, Vineyard Columbus, World Harvest Church located in 
a southeast suburb and the First Church of God located in Southeast Columbus 
off of State Route 104 and Refugee Road. Religious teaching institutions 
include the Trinity Lutheran Seminary, Bexley Hall Episcopal Seminary, 
Methodist Theological School in Ohio, Ohio Christian University and the 
Pontifical College Josephinum. Columbus is the home of many renowned performing 
arts institutions including the Columbus Symphony Orchestra, Opera Columbus, 
BalletMet Columbus, the ProMusica Chamber Orchestra, CATCO, Columbus Children's 
Theatre, Shadowbox Cabaret and the Columbus Jazz Orchestra. Throughout 
the summer Actors' Theatre of Columbus offers free performances of Shakespearean 
plays in an open-air amphitheatre in Schiller Park, located in historic 
German Village. The Columbus Youth Ballet Academy was founded in the 1980s 
by internationally celebrated ballerina and artistic director Shir Lee 
Wu, a discovery of Martha Graham. Wu is now the artistic director of the 
Columbus City Ballet School, while her instruction remains in strong demand 
globally. Her students of the last couple decades have furthered their 
education at institutions such as The Juilliard School, School of American 
Ballet, and the Houston Ballet Academy, while some have gone on to perform 
with companies including the New York City Ballet, Pacific Northwest Ballet, 
Martha Graham Contemporary Dance Company, and BalletMet Columbus. Her students 
have won gold medals at the Youth American Grand Prix competition in New 
York, while others have been finalists in competitions such as the Concord 
De Dance de Paris.[109] There are many large concert venues in Columbus, 
including arenas such as Nationwide Arena and Jerome Schottenstein Center. 
The Lifestyle Communities Pavilion (the LC for short) (formerly the PromoWest 
Pavilion), Veterans Memorial Auditorium (currently being rebuilt), Mershon 
Auditorium, and the Newport Music Hall round out the city's music performance 
spaces. In May 2009, the Lincoln Theatre, which was formerly a center for 
Black culture in Columbus, was reopened to the public after extensive restoration.[110][111] 
Not far from the Lincoln Theatre is the King Arts Complex, which hosts 
various cultural events. The city also has a number of theatres downtown, 
including the historic Palace Theatre, the Ohio Theatre, and the Southern 
Theatre. Broadway Across America frequently presents touring Broadway musicals 
in these larger venues.[112] The Vern Riffe Center for Government and the 
Arts houses the Capitol Theatre and three smaller studio theatres, providing 
a home for resident performing arts companies. Academy Award-winning movies 
filmed in Columbus and the central Ohio area include Steven Soderbergh's 
Traffic in 2000. Other movies filmed in Columbus and the central Ohio area 
include Horrors of War (by local filmmakers Peter John Ross, John Whitney, 
and producer Philip R. Garrett) in 2006, Little Man Tate, Fallen Angels 
in 2006, Steven Soderbergh's Bubble in 2005, Criminal Minds in 1998, Wolfgang 
Petersen's Air Force One in 1997, Tango & Cash in 1989, Speak in 2004, 
Parker in 2013 and Teachers in 1984.[113] Columbus hosts two major league 
professional sports teams. The Columbus Blue Jackets of the National Hockey 
League (NHL) which play at Nationwide Arena and Columbus Crew SC of Major 
League Soccer (MLS) which play at Mapfre Stadium, the first soccer-specific 
stadium built in the United States. The Crew were one of the original members 
of MLS, and won their first MLS Cup in 2008. The Columbus Clippers, Triple 
A affiliate of the Cleveland Indians (formerly a long-time affiliate of 
the New York Yankees through 2006, and the Washington Nationals through 
2008), play in Huntington Park, which opened in 2009. The city was home 
to the Tigers football team from 1901–1926.[114] In the 1990s the Columbus 
Quest won the only two championships during American Basketball League's 
existence. The Ohio Aviators are based in Obetz, Ohio and will begin play 
in the inaugural 2016 PRO Rugby season.[115] Columbus is home to one of 
the most competitive intercollegiate programs in the nation, the Ohio State 
Buckeyes of The Ohio State University. The program has placed in the top-10 
final standings of the Director's Cup five times since 2000–2001, including 
No. 3 for the 2002–2003 season and No. 4 for the 2003–2004 season.[117] 
The university funds 36 varsity teams, consisting of 17 male, 16 female, 
and three co-educational teams.[118] In 2007–2008 and 2008–2009, the program 
generated the second-most revenue for college programs behind the Texas 
Longhorns of The University of Texas at Austin.[119][120] The Ohio State 
Buckeyes are a member of the NCAA's Big Ten Conference, and the football 
team plays home games at Ohio Stadium. The Ohio State-Michigan football 
game (known colloquially as "The Game") is the final game of the regular 
season and is played in November each year, alternating between Columbus 
and Ann Arbor, Michigan. In 2000, ESPN ranked the Ohio State-Michigan game 
as the greatest rivalry in North American sports.[121] Moreover, "Buckeye 
fever" permeates Columbus culture year-round and forms a major part of 
Columbus's cultural identity. Former New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner, 
an Ohio native who studied at Ohio State at one point and who coached in 
Columbus, was a big Ohio State football fan and donor to the university, 
having contributed for the construction of the band facility at the renovated 
Ohio Stadium, which bears his family's name.[122] During the winter months, 
the Buckeyes basketball and hockey teams are also major sporting attractions. 
Columbus hosts the annual Arnold Classic fitness expo and competition in 
early March. Hosted by Arnold Schwarzenegger, the event has grown to eight 
Olympic sports and 12,000 athletes competing in 20 events.[123] In conjunction 
with the Arnold Classic, the city hosted three consecutive Ultimate Fighting 
Championships events between 2007–2009, as well as other mixed martial 
arts events. Automotive racing star Jeff Gordon's company, Jeff Gordon 
Inc., along with Arshot Investment Corp., have plans to construct[when?] 
the Center for Automotive Research & Technology at Cooper Park, a proposed 
racing venue and center just west of downtown.[124] Rahal Letterman Lanigan 
Racing, a business venture owned by Indianapolis 500 winner Bobby Rahal, 
television personality David Letterman, and entrepreneur Mike Lanigan, 
is based in the Columbus metropolitan area. Columbus has a long history 
in motorsports, hosting the world's first 24-hour car race at the Columbus 
Driving Park in 1905, organized by the Columbus Auto Club.[125] The Columbus 
Motor Speedway was built in 1945 and held their first motorcycle race in 
1946. In 2010 the Ohio State University student-built Buckeye Bullet 2, 
a fuel cell vehicle, set a FIA world speed record for electric vehicles 
in reaching 303.025 mph, eclipsing the previous record of 302.877 mph.[126] 
The annual All American Quarter Horse Congress, the largest single breed 
horse show in the world[127] is held at the Ohio Expo Center each October 
and attracts approximately 500,000 visitors annually. The Columbus Bullies 
were two-time champions of the American Football League (1940–1941). The 
Columbus Thunderbolts were formed in 1991 for the Arena Football League, 
and then relocated to Cleveland as the Cleveland Thunderbolts; the Columbus 
Destroyers were the next team of the AFL, playing from 2004 until the league's 
demise in 2008. The Columbus and Franklin County Metropolitan Park District 
includes Inniswood Metro Gardens, a collection of public gardens; Highbanks 
Metro Park; Battelle-Darby Creek Metro Park; as well as many others. The 
Big Darby Creek in the southwestern part of town is considered to be especially 
significant for its beauty and ecological diversity.[128] Clintonville 
is home to Whetstone Park, which includes the Park of Roses, a beautiful 
13-acre (5.3 ha) rose garden. The Chadwick Arboretum is located on the 
OSU campus, and features a large and varied collection of plants. Downtown, 
the famous painting Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte is 
represented in topiary at Columbus's Old Deaf School Park. Also near downtown, 
a new Metro Park on the Whittier Peninsula opened in 2009. The park includes 
a large Audubon nature center focused on the excellent bird watching that 
the area is known for.[129] The Columbus Zoo and Aquarium is world-renowned 
for its collections that include lowland gorillas, polar bears, manatees, 
Siberian tigers, cheetahs, and kangaroos.[citation needed] Its director 
emeritus, Jack Hanna, frequently appears on national television, including 
on The Tonight Show and the Late Show with David Letterman. In 2009, it 
was ranked as the best zoo in the United States.[30] Also in the zoo complex 
is the Zoombezi Bay water park and amusement park. Annual festivities in 
Columbus include the Ohio State Fair—one of the largest state fairs in 
the country—as well as the Columbus Arts festival and the Jazz and Ribs 
Festival, both of which occur on the downtown riverfront. June is a popular 
festival month in Columbus. During the first weekend in June, the bars 
of Columbus's trendy North Market District play host to Park Street Festival. 
The event attracts thousands of visitors from the surrounding neighborhoods 
and beyond, creating a massive party both inside the bars and on the street. 
The second to last weekend in June is one of the largest gay pride parades 
in the Midwest, reflective of the sizable gay population in Columbus. During 
the last weekend of June, ComFest (short for "Community Festival") is an 
immense three-day music festival, the largest non-commercial festival in 
the U.S., in Goodale Park, with art vendors and live musicians on multiple 
stages, hundreds of local social and political organizations, body painting 
and beer. The Hot Times festival is held annually in Columbus's historic 
Olde Towne East neighborhood—a celebration of music, arts, food, and diversity. 
Restaurant Week Columbus is the city's largest dining event, held for a 
week in mid-July and mid-January each year. This popular event featured 
over 40 restaurants in January 2010. Over 40,000 diners went out during 
the week, culminating with a $5,000 donation made to the Mid-Ohio Foodbank 
on behalf of sponsors and participating restaurants.[130] The Juneteenth 
Ohio Festival is held each year at Franklin Park on Father's Day weekend. 
JuneteenthOhio is one of the largest African American festivals in the 
United States, started 19 years ago by Mustafaa Shabazz. The festival is 
three full days of music, food, dance, and entertainment by local and national 
recording artists. The festival holds a Father's Day celebration, honoring 
local fathers. Around the Fourth of July, Columbus hosts Red, White, and 
Boom! on the Scioto riverfront downtown to crowds of over 500,000 people.[131] 
The popular Doo Dah Parade is held at this time, as well. During Memorial 
Day Weekend, the Asian Festival is held in Franklin Park. Hundreds of restaurants, 
vendors, and companies open up booths, traditional music and martial arts 
are performed, and cultural exhibits are set up. In recent years,[when?] 
attendees have numbered over 100,000. The Jazz and Rib Fest is a free downtown 
event held each July featuring jazz artists like Randy Weston, D. Bohannon 
Clark, and Wayne Shorter, along with rib vendors from around the country. 
The Short North is host to the monthly "Gallery Hop", which attracts hundreds 
to the neighborhood's art galleries (which all open their doors to the 
public until late at night) and street musicians. The Hilltop Bean Dinner 
is an annual event held on Columbus's West Side that celebrates the city's 
Civil War heritage near the historic Camp Chase Cemetery. At the end of 
September, German Village throws an annual Oktoberfest celebration that 
features authentic German food, beer, music, and crafts. The Short North 
also hosts HighBall Halloween, Masquerade on High, a fashion show and street 
parade that closes down High Street. In 2011, in its fourth year, HighBall 
Halloween gained notoriety as it accepted its first Expy award. HighBall 
Halloween has much to offer for those interested in fashion and the performing 
and visual arts or for those who want to celebrate Halloween and with food 
and drinks from all around the city. Each year the event is put on with 
a different theme and it increases in size and popularity.[citation needed] 
Columbus also hosts many conventions in the Greater Columbus Convention 
Center, a pastel-colored deconstructivist building on the north edge of 
downtown that resembles jumbled blocks, or a train yard from overhead. 
The convention center was designed by architect Peter Eisenman, who also 
designed the aforementioned Wexner Center. Completed in 1993, the convention 
center now has 1,700,000 square feet (160,000 m2) of space.[132] Developer 
Richard E. Jacobs built the area's first three major shopping malls in 
the 1960s: Westland, Northland, and Eastland.[133] Of these, only Eastland 
remains in operation. Columbus City Center was built downtown in 1988, 
alongside the first location of Lazarus; this mall closed in 2009 and was 
demolished in 2011. Easton Town Center was built in 1999, and Polaris Fashion 
Place in 2001. The city is administered by a mayor and a seven-member unicameral 
council elected in two classes every two years to four-year terms. The 
mayor appoints the director of safety and the director of public service. 
The people elect the auditor, municipal court clerk, municipal court judges 
and city attorney. A charter commission, elected in 1913, submitted, in 
May 1914, a new charter offering a modified Federal form, with a number 
of progressive features, such as nonpartisan ballot, preferential voting, 
recall of elected officials, the referendum, and a small council elected 
at large. The charter was adopted, effective January 1, 1916. The current 
mayor of Columbus is Andrew Ginther.[134] The City of Columbus is policed 
by a Municipal police Department, the Columbus Division of Police.[135] 
According to the CQ Press in 2009, Columbus ranked as the 38th most dangerous 
city in the United States,[136] though it has never been ranked among the 
top 25. This ranking is based on crime statistics compiled by the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation as weighted by the CQ Press. In 2011, Columbus 
had 92 homicides, which was an average year for the city,[137] and 658 
violent crimes for every 100,000 people.[138] Columbus is the home of two 
public colleges: The Ohio State University, one of the largest college 
campuses in the United States, and Columbus State Community College. In 
2009, The Ohio State University was ranked No. 19 in the country by U.S. 
News & World Report for best public university, and No. 56 overall, scoring 
in the first tier of schools nationally.[139] Some of OSU's graduate school 
programs placed in the top 5, including: No. 5 for best veterinary program 
and No. 5 for best pharmacy program. The specialty graduate programs of 
social psychology was ranked No. 2, dispute resolution was ranked No. 5, 
vocational education No. 2, and elementary education, secondary teacher 
education, administration/supervision No. 5.[140] Private institutions 
located in Columbus include Capital University Law School, the Columbus 
College of Art and Design, Fortis College, DeVry University, Ohio Business 
College, Miami-Jacobs Career College, Ohio Institute of Health Careers, 
Bradford School and Franklin University, as well as the religious schools 
Bexley Hall Episcopal Seminary, Mount Carmel College of Nursing, Ohio Dominican 
University, Pontifical College Josephinum, and Trinity Lutheran Seminary. 
Three major suburban schools also have an influence on Columbus's educational 
landscape: Bexley's Capital University, Westerville's Otterbein University, 
and Delaware's Ohio Wesleyan University. Columbus City Schools (CCS), formerly 
Columbus Public Schools, is the largest district in Ohio, with 55,000 pupils.[141] 
CCS operates 142 elementary, middle, and high schools, including a number 
of magnet schools (which are referred to as alternative schools within 
the school system). The suburbs operate their own districts as well, typically 
serving students in one or more townships, with districts sometimes crossing 
municipal boundaries. The Roman Catholic Diocese of Columbus also operates 
numerous parochial elementary and high schools. The second largest school 
district in the area is South-Western City Schools, which encompasses southwestern 
Franklin County. There are also several private schools in the area. Some 
sources claim that the first kindergarten in the United States was established 
here by Louisa Frankenberg, a former student of Friedrich Fröbel.[41] Frankenberg 
immigrated to the city in 1838. In addition, Indianola Junior High School 
(now the Graham Expeditionary Middle School) became the nation's first 
junior high in 1909, helping to bridge the difficult transition from elementary 
to high school at a time when only 48% of students continued their education 
after the 9th grade.[142] The Ohio Chinese School (OCS, 俄州新东方中文学校) is at 
935 Northridge Road serving the greater Columbus communities and offering 
k-12 enrichment programs and Chinese language classes. The Columbus Metropolitan 
Library (CML) has been serving residents of central Ohio since 1873. With 
a collection of 3 million items, the system has 22 locations throughout 
the area. This library is one of the most-used library systems in the country 
and is consistently among the top-ranked large city libraries according 
to "Hennen's American Public Library Ratings." CML was rated the No. 1 
library system in the nation in 1999, 2005, and 2008. It has been in the 
top four every year since 1999 when the rankings were first published in 
American Libraries magazine, often challenging up-state neighbor Cuyahoga 
County Public Library for the top spot.[143][144] CML was named Library 
of the Year by the Library Journal in 2010. There are a number of weekly 
and daily newspapers serving Columbus and Central Ohio. The only major 
daily newspaper in Columbus is The Columbus Dispatch; its erstwhile main 
competitor, The Columbus Citizen-Journal, ceased publication on December 
31, 1985. There are also neighborhood/suburb specific papers, such as the 
Dispatch Printing Company's ThisWeek Community News, which serves 23 suburbs 
and Columbus, the Columbus Messenger, and the independently owned Short 
North Gazette. The Lantern and UWeekly serves The Ohio State University 
community. "Alternative" arts/culture/politics-oriented papers include 
Outlook Media's Outlook: Columbus (serving the LGBT community in Columbus), 
and aLIVE (formerly the independent Columbus Alive and now owned by the 
Columbus Dispatch). The newest addition to the Columbus media scene is 
Live Local! Columbus, a free, quarterly magazine that focuses on local 
arts, culture, and events. The Columbus Magazine, CityScene, (614) Magazine, 
and Columbus Monthly are the city's magazines. Online media publication 
ColumbusUnderground.com also serves the Columbus region as an independently 
owned alternative voice. The city's business community is served by The 
Daily Reporter, central Ohio's only printed daily business and legal newspaper; 
Columbus Business First, a daily online/weekly print business publication 
that is part of the Charlotte-based American City Business Journals, and 
Columbus CEO, a monthly business magazine. Extensive Statehouse coverage 
is provided by Gongwer News Service, a daily independent political newsletter. 
Columbus is the base for 12 television stations and is the 32nd largest 
television market as of September 24, 2016.[145] Warner Cable introduced 
its two-way interactive QUBE system in Columbus in December 1977, which 
consisted of specialty channels that would evolve into national networks 
Nickelodeon,[146] MTV and The Movie Channel. QUBE also displayed one of 
the earliest uses of Pay-per-view and video on demand.[147] Columbus is 
home to the 36th largest radio market.[148] The following box contains 
all of the radio stations in the area, as well as their current format: 
The city's street plan originates downtown and extends into the old-growth 
neighborhoods, following a grid pattern with the intersection of High Street 
(running north–south) and Broad Street (running east–west) at its center. 
North-South streets run 12 degrees west of due North, parallel to High 
Street; the Avenues (vis. Fifth Avenue, Sixth Avenue, Seventh Avenue, and 
so on.) run east–west.[149] The address system begins its numbering at 
the intersection of Broad and High, with numbers increasing in magnitude 
with distance from Broad or High. Numbered Avenues begin with First Avenue, 
about 1 1⁄4 mi (2.0 km) north of Broad Street, and increase in number as 
one progresses northward. Numbered Streets begin with Second Street, which 
is two blocks west of High Street, and Third Street, which is a block east 
of High Street, then progress eastward from there. Even-numbered addresses 
are on the north and east sides of streets, putting odd addresses on the 
south and west sides of streets. A difference of 700 house numbers means 
a distance of about 1 mi (1.6 km) (along the same street).[65] For example, 
351 W 5th Avenue is approximately 1⁄2 mi (800 m) west of High Street on 
the south side of Fifth Avenue. Buildings along north–south streets are 
numbered in a similar manner: the building number indicates the approximate 
distance from Broad Street, the prefixes 'N' and 'S' indicate whether that 
distance is to measured to the north or south of Broad Street and the street 
number itself indicates how far the street is from the center of the city 
at the intersection of Broad and High. This street numbering system does 
not hold true over a large area. The area served by numbered Avenues runs 
from about Marble Cliff to South Linden to the Airport, and the area served 
by numbered Streets covers Downtown and nearby neighborhoods to the east 
and south, with only a few exceptions. There are quite few intersections 
between numbered Streets and Avenues. Furthermore, named Streets and Avenues 
can have any orientation. For example, while all of the numbered avenues 
run east–west, perpendicular to High Street, many named, non-numbered avenues 
run north–south, parallel to High. The same is true of many named streets: 
while the numbered streets in the city run north–south, perpendicular to 
Broad Street, many named, non-numbered streets run east–west, perpendicular 
to High Street. The addressing system, however, covers nearly all of Franklin 
County, with only a few older suburbs retaining self-centered address systems. 
The address scale of 700 per mile results in addresses approaching, but 
not usually reaching, 10,000 at the county's borders. Other major, local 
roads in Columbus include Main Street, Morse Road, Dublin-Granville Road 
(SR-161), Cleveland Avenue/Westerville Road (SR-3), Olentangy River Road, 
Riverside Drive, Sunbury Road, Fifth Avenue and Livingston Avenue. Columbus 
is bisected by two major Interstate Highways, Interstate 70 running east–west, 
and Interstate 71 running north to roughly southwest. The two Interstates 
combine downtown for about 1.5 mi (2.4 km) in an area locally known as 
"The Split", which is a major traffic congestion point within Columbus, 
especially during rush hour. U.S. Route 40, originally known as the National 
Road, runs east–west through Columbus, comprising Main Street to the east 
of downtown and Broad Street to the west. U.S. Route 23 runs roughly north–south, 
while U.S. Route 33 runs northwest-to-southeast. The Interstate 270 Outerbelt 
encircles the vast majority of the city, while the newly redesigned Innerbelt 
consists of the Interstate 670 spur on the north side (which continues 
to the east past the Airport and to the west where it merges with I-70), 
State Route 315 on the west side, the I-70/71 split on the south side, 
and I-71 on the east. Due to its central location within Ohio and abundance 
of outbound roadways, nearly all of the state's destinations are within 
a 2 or 3 hour drive of Columbus. The Columbus riverfront hosts a few notable 
bridges which have been built since 2000. The 700 ft (210 m) Main Street 
Bridge opened on July 30, 2010 and is the first bridge of its kind in North 
America.[150] The bridge is located directly south of COSI on the Scioto 
river, featuring three lanes of traffic (one westbound and two eastbound) 
and another separated lane for pedestrians and bikes. The Rich Street Bridge 
opened in July 2012 and is adjacent to the Main Street Bridge connecting 
Rich Street on the east side of the river with Town Street on the west.[151][152] 
The Lane Avenue Bridge is a cable-stayed bridge that opened on November 
14, 2003 in the University District and spans the Olentangy river with 
three lanes of traffic each way. The city's primary airport, Port Columbus 
International Airport, is located on the east side of the city, with several 
smaller airports in the region as well. Port Columbus provides service 
to Toronto, Canada and Cancun, Mexico (on a seasonal basis), as well as 
to most domestic destinations, including all the major hubs except San 
Francisco, Salt Lake City, and Seattle. Port Columbus was a hub for discount 
carrier Skybus Airlines and continues to be a home to NetJets, the world's 
largest fractional ownership air carrier. According to a 2005 market survey, 
Port Columbus International Airport attracts about 50% of its passengers 
from outside of its 60-mile (97 km) radius primary service region.[153] 
Port Columbus is currently the 52nd-busiest airport in the United States 
by total passenger boardings.[154] Rickenbacker International Airport, 
in southern Franklin County, is a major cargo facility and is utilized 
by the Ohio Air National Guard. Allegiant Air offers nonstop service from 
Rickenbacker to various Florida destinations. Ohio State University Don 
Scott Airport and Bolton Field are significant general-aviation facilities 
in the Columbus area. Columbus maintains a widespread municipal bus service 
called the Central Ohio Transit Authority (COTA). Intercity bus service 
is provided by Greyhound, Barons Bus Lines, Miller Transportation, Megabus, 
GoBus, and other carriers.[155] Currently, Columbus does not have any type 
of passenger rail service. Columbus used to have a major train station 
downtown called Union Station, most notably as a stop along Amtrak's National 
Limited train service until 1977. The station itself was razed in 1979,[156] 
and the Greater Columbus Convention Center now stands in its place. The 
station was also a stop along the Cleveland, Columbus and Cincinnati Railroad 
and the Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Chicago and St. Louis Railroad. Columbus 
is now the largest metropolitan area in the U.S. without either a local 
rail or intercity rail connection (Phoenix opened a light-rail system in 
2008, but still lacks an Amtrak connection. Kansas City is the only metro 
area larger than Columbus that lacks a local rail system, but one is being 
built.)[157][158] however studies are underway towards reintroducing passenger 
rail service to Columbus via the Ohio Hub project. Plans are in the works 
to open a high-speed rail service connecting Columbus with Cincinnati and 
to the proposed hub in Cleveland which offers rail service to the East 
Coast, including New York and Washington, DC.[159] Cycling as transportation 
is steadily increasing in Columbus with its relatively flat terrain, intact 
urban neighborhoods, large student population, and off-road bike paths. 
The city has put forth the 2012 Bicentennial Bikeways Plan as well as a 
move toward a Complete Streets policy.[160] Grassroots efforts such as 
Bike To Work Week, Consider Biking, Yay Bikes,[161] Third Hand Bicycle 
Co-op, Franklinton Cycleworks, and Cranksters, a local radio program focused 
on urban cycling,[162] have contributed to cycling as transportation. Columbus 
also hosts urban cycling "off-shots" with messenger-style "alleycat" races 
as well as unorganized group rides, a monthly Critical Mass ride,[163] 
bicycle polo, art showings, movie nights, and a variety of bicycle-friendly 
businesses and events throughout the year. All this activity occurs despite 
Columbus's frequently inclement weather. The new Main Street Bridge features 
a dedicated bike and pedestrian lane separated from traffic, as does the 
Rich Street Bridge. The city has its own public bicycle system. CoGo Bike 
Share system has a network of 335 bicycles and 41 docking stations (2016). 
PBSC Urban Solutions, a company based in Canada, supplies technology and 
equipment.[164][165] Columbus has ten sister cities,[166] as designated 
by Sister Cities International. Columbus established its first Sister City 
relationship in 1955 with Genoa, Italy. To commemorate this relationship, 
Columbus received as a gift from the people of Genoa, a bronze statue of 
Christopher Columbus. The statue, sculpted by artist Edoardo Alfieri, overlooks 
Broad Street in front of Columbus City Hall.[167] Nation: States: Territories: 
