Comcast SportsNet Chicago (sometimes abbreviated as CSN Chicago) is an 
American regional sports network that is owned by the NBC Sports Group 
unit of NBCUniversal (which owns 20%, and is itself owned by Comcast, the 
primary cable provider in the Chicago market), the family of Chicago Cubs 
owner J. Joseph Ricketts (who own 20%), Chicago Bulls and White Sox owner 
Jerry Reinsdorf (who owns a 40% majority interest), and Chicago Blackhawks 
owner Rocky Wirtz (who owns 20%). The channel broadcasts regional coverage 
of professional sports teams in the Chicago metropolitan area, as well 
as college sports events and original sports-related news, discussion and 
entertainment programming. CSN Chicago is available on cable and fiber 
optic television providers in most of Illinois, and throughout northern 
Indiana, Iowa, Kenosha County, Wisconsin and southwest Michigan and nationwide 
on satellite providers DirecTV and Dish Network. The network maintains 
main studios and offices located at 350 North Orleans Street, inside the 
River North Point Center in the Near North Side area. In November 2003, 
Jerry Reinsdorf, Bill Wirtz and the Tribune Company decided to end their 
cable television agreements for their respective teams, the Bulls, White 
Sox, Cubs and Blackhawks with FSN Chicago, stripping that network of broadcast 
rights to all of the professional sports teams in the Chicago area. All 
three team owners decided to enter into a partnership with Comcast to form 
a new regional sports network, to be named Comcast SportsNet Chicago, whose 
launch was formally announced on December 2.[1][2] CSN Chicago was created 
in order for the four teams to have editorial control over their broadcasts, 
although the network continued to share the rights to the Cubs, White Sox, 
Blackhawks and Bulls with WGN-TV (channel 9; which is owned by Tribune) 
and (until 2014) WCIU-TV (channel 26). Comcast SportsNet Chicago launched 
on October 1, 2004. At that time, with the loss of all four teams from 
its lineup, FSN Chicago was effectively left with only events from some 
minor local and semi-professional teams, national programming from Fox 
Sports Net, and Midwestern outdoors programs on its schedule; many cable 
and satellite providers in northeastern Illinois and northwest Indiana 
also chose to replace FSN Chicago with CSN Chicago upon its launch. After 
Rainbow Media shut down FSN Chicago on June 23, 2006,[3] Comcast SportsNet 
Chicago acquired the regional cable television rights to broadcast sports 
events, discussion and entertainment programs intended for national distribution 
to the Fox Sports regional networks. The network subsequently relocated 
its operations into FSN Chicago's former studio facilities on Orleans Street 
(which Comcast SportsNet Chicago now also shares with the offices of the 
Chicago Sun-Times). On April 2, 2007, the Tribune Company announced its 
intent to sell its shares in both Comcast SportsNet Chicago and the Chicago 
Cubs as part of the company's $8.2 billion purchase by real estate magnate 
Sam Zell.[4] After inheriting the team from father Bill Wirtz upon his 
death in September 2007, new Chicago Blackhawks owner Rocky Wirtz decided 
to lift a longstanding ban on televised coverage of the team's home games 
(which the elder Wirtz imposed as a means to sustain ticket sales).[5] 
On March 30, 2008, the Blackhawks announced a broadcasting agreement, which 
renewed CSN Chicago's broadcast rights (with the network carrying the bulk 
of the games), while also splitting a share of the local broadcasts with 
WGN-TV effective with the 2008–09 season; all of the team's games (both 
home and away) would be televised in high definition (due to the NHL's 
broadcast contracts, including ironically one with eventual Comcast division 
NBCUniversal, WGN-TV was barred from carrying its share of Blackhawks telecasts 
on its former national superstation feed WGN America, although its game 
telecasts were available in Canada through the station's carriage as a 
superstation on domestic cable and satellite providers).[6] Comcast Sports 
Net Chicago, along with the other Comcast SportsNet-branded networks, implemented 
a new network logo style (utilizing Comcast's then-universal corporate 
logo, similar to the current network-wide version augmented with the NBC 
peacock logo) and graphics package on October 1, 2008, coinciding with 
the fourth anniversary of the network's launch. On January 5, 2009, the 
network premiered Monsters in the Morning, a weekday morning talk show 
hosted by former WSCR radio host Mike North and Comcast SportsNet Chicago 
reporter and former Chicago Bear Dan Jiggetts. The program was cancelled 
in January 2010, due to problems involving the show, including the program's 
main sponsor, the now-defunct online sports channel ChicagoSportsWebio.com, 
being implicated in defrauding North, Jiggetts and others in a money laundering 
scheme in June 2009;[7] North subsequently became the host of Monsters 
and Money in the Morning, a short-lived program for CBS owned-and-operated 
station WBBM-TV (channel 2), which briefly replaced that station's morning 
newscast. On August 21, 2009, the Tribune Company sold its interests in 
the Chicago Cubs, Wrigley Field and 25% of Comcast SportsNet to the family 
of TD Ameritrade founder J. Joseph Ricketts for $845 million.[8][9] With 
Comcast's acquisition of NBC Universal in February 2011, Comcast SportsNet 
was also integrated into the new NBC Sports Group unit, culminating with 
the addition of the peacock logo and an updated graphics package based 
on that introduced by NBC Sports for its NBC and national cable broadcasts 
in January 2013. The updated graphics were implemented on CSN's live game 
coverage and all studio shows, with the exception of SportsNet Central. 
In September 2012, Comcast SportsNet Chicago and its sister Comcast SportsNet 
outlets ceased carrying Fox Sports Networks-supplied programming, after 
failing to reach an agreement to continue carrying FSN's nationally distributed 
programs.[10] SportsNet Central would ultimately implement a new on-air 
look of its own and on April 14, 2014, in conjunction with that change, 
the program switched to the updated graphics package introduced three years 
earlier. Through its majority ownership by the owners of each of the four 
teams, Comcast SportsNet Chicago holds the regional cable television rights 
to air a majority of games involving the Chicago Cubs and Chicago White 
Sox Major League Baseball clubs, the NBA's Chicago Bulls and the NHL's 
Chicago Blackhawks. However, as Chicago is one of the scant few remaining 
U.S. markets whose baseball and basketball teams broadcast their games 
both over-the-air and on local cable, the network shares the broadcast 
rights to all four teams with WGN-TV, while both share the rights to the 
Cubs with ABC owned-and-operated station WLS-TV (channel 7) and MyNetworkTV 
owned-and-operated station WPWR-TV (channel 50). The network also holds 
the broadcast rights to games involving the Chicago Fire S.C. of Major 
League Soccer. The channel had held the broadcast rights to games of the 
now-defunct Chicago Rush of the Arena Football League. On April 13, 2010, 
CSN Chicago announced that it had signed a contract with Chicago Fire S.C. 
to broadcast at least eight of the franchise's matches for the 2010 season; 
on January 26, 2015, Comcast SportsNet Chicago signed a three-year contract 
with the Chicago Fire to become the team's exclusive local television broadcaster, 
after having carried its games the previous two years on WPWR-TV.[11] The 
network also carries collegiate sports events including football games 
involving the Northern Illinois University Huskies and basketball games 
from the Illinois State University Redbirds. Prior to the termination of 
Comcast SportsNet's groupwide programming agreement with Fox Sports Networks, 
CSN Chicago additionally broadcast FSN's national programming following 
the shutdown of FSN Chicago, notably including the network's college sports 
coverage, such as Atlantic Coast Conference men's and women's basketball 
games (on Sundays), men's basketball games from the Pac-12 Conference (on 
various nights) and college football games from the Big 12 Conference and 
Pac-12 Conference (on Saturdays during the fall). Comcast SportsNet Chicago's 
flagship program is SportsNet Central, a nightly sports news program featuring 
live reports and coverage on the Chicago area's major sports teams as well 
as game highlights from local and national teams; the program also features 
special regular segments such as "Luke-A-Likes" (a popular segment hosted 
by Luke Stuckmeyer on nights when he hosts the program, a viewer-voting 
segment featuring photos submitted by viewers claiming to resemble a particular 
sports figure) and the "Chicago Sports Trivia Question" (a bumper segment 
shown before and after a commercial break featuring trivia questions related 
to Chicago sports). The network also carries team magazine and coaches 
shows focusing on the Bulls, Blackhawks, Cubs and White Sox, as well as 
the Northern Illinois University and Illinois State University football 
and basketball teams. Since the network launched in 2004, Comcast SportsNet 
Chicago has hosted the CSN Chicago Sports Awards, an annual award show 
to raise money for the March of Dimes (this program dates back to 1987, 
when the children's charity started the benefit in partnership with SportsChannel 
Chicago, the later FSN Chicago). The honorees included top athletes from 
Chicago's professional sports teams, who were chosen based on their contributions 
to their teams and the Chicago community. To date, the "CSN Chicago Sports 
Awards" has raised over $6 million for the March of Dimes. Comcast SportsNet 
Chicago Plus is an overflow feed of Comcast SportsNet Chicago, which is 
primarily used to alleviate scheduling conflicts that result when two sports 
events involving teams that the network holds the right to broadcast are 
scheduled to occur simultaneously. The network operates a secondary overflow, 
Comcast SportsNet Chicago Plus 2 or in the past listed as Alternate on 
the csn website, if three concurring sporting events are scheduled for 
the same time. Both networks have also sometimes been used to show locally 
produced and FSN-distributed college sports events. CSN Chicago Plus' HD 
simulcast feed was previously used as a help channel (old MOJO HD before 
it closed) (an information channel providing instructional information 
on products offered by the provider) on Comcast systems when no sports 
events were being telecast; it now carries programming originally broadcast 
on the main CSN Chicago network outside of sporting events. Originally 
operating as a gametime-only service, cable providers mainly transmit CSN 
Chicago Plus and CSN Chicago Plus 2 on non-critical networks, with Comcast 
carrying the primary Plus feed over the channel slot occupied by regional 
news channel Chicagoland Television (CLTV) or on another slot (such as 
channel 101) on its Chicago systems; conversely, Dish Network carries the 
standard definition feed of the main Plus network on alternating channels 
assigned by the satellite provider. At times when CSN Chicago Plus and 
CSN Chicago Plus 2 are broadcasting at the same time, one of the overflows 
will be carried on the alternate channel, mostly on C-SPAN2, in the case 
of cable providers. Comcast SportsNet Chicago HD is a 1080i high definition 
simulcast of Comcast SportsNet Chicago. It carries all home and road games 
involving the Chicago Cubs, Chicago White Sox, Chicago Blackhawks, Chicago 
Bulls and Chicago Fire as well as all studio shows in high definition. 
CSN Chicago HD is carried on Comcast, RCN, WOW! Internet, Phone and Cable 
and AT&T U-verse within the Chicago market, and nationally on DirecTV and 
Dish Network. The network's overflow feeds, Comcast SportsNet Chicago Plus 
and Comcast SportsNet Chicago Plus 2, also maintain HD simulcasts: CSN 
Chicago Plus HD is available only part-time on Comcast systems within outer 
markets and full-time on Comcast systems in the Chicago metro area and 
on AT&T U-verse, while CSN Chicago Plus 2 HD is available only through 
AT&T U-verse and DirecTV (most cable providers carry the Plus 2 feed in 
