CSN Bay Area Holdings NBC Sports Group and San Francisco Giants) CSN Bay 
Area is an American regional sports network that is owned as a joint venture 
between NBCUniversal and the San Francisco Giants, and operates as an affiliate 
of NBC Sports Group. Headquartered in San Francisco, the channel broadcasts 
regional coverage of professional sports events throughout the San Francisco 
Bay Area. CSN Bay Area's sister channel is Comcast SportsNet California. 
The president of the network is Ted Griggs. The network was formed as a 
merger of two separate regional sports networks: the Pacific Sports Network, 
which launched in July 1, 1989 as an affiliate of the Prime Network and 
SportsChannel Bay Area, an owned-and-operated outlet of SportsChannel America 
that launched in April 1990 under the ownership of Rainbow Media, the broadcasting 
subsidiary of Cablevision Systems Corporation. The two networks merged 
in July 1991 into SportsChannel Pacific.[citation needed] On June 30, 1997, 
News Corporation and Liberty Media – which formed Fox Sports Net the year 
prior through News Corporation's partial acquisition of the Liberty-owned 
Prime Network group of regional sports networks – purchased a 40% interest 
in Cablevision's sports properties including the SportsChannel America 
networks (as well as Madison Square Garden and its NBA and NHL team tenants, 
the New York Knicks and New York Rangers);[1][2] the three companies formed 
the venture National Sports Partners to run the owned-and-operated regional 
networks. The channel was rebranded as Fox Sports Bay Area in January 1998, 
at which time most of the SportsChannel networks (with the exception of 
SportsChannel Florida, which did not join the network until 2000) underwent 
a near-groupwide rebranding as part of their integration into the Fox Sports 
Net family. The channel was then rebranded as Fox Sports Net Bay Area in 
2000, as part of a collective brand modification of the FSN networks under 
the "Fox Sports Net" banner; subsequently in 2004, the channel shortened 
its name to FSN Bay Area, through the networks' de-emphasis of the brand. 
On April 30, 2007, Comcast purchased 50% interests in FSN Bay Area and 
FSN New England from Rainbow Media for $570 million.[3] Then on December 
10, the San Francisco Giants acquired a 30% stake in FSN Bay Area,[4] with 
News Corporation becoming a minority partner in the network. As a result 
of Comcast becoming the majority interest holder, the network (after the 
sale was finalized in February 2008) was integrated into the company's 
own regional sports network group Comcast SportsNet, rebranding as Comcast 
SportsNet Bay Area on March 31, 2008.[5] CSN Bay Area became the first 
Comcast SportsNet-branded network to use a logo style (utilizing Comcast's 
then-universal corporate logo), similar to the current NBC-styled logo, 
that was later adopted by all the other NBC Sports regional networks on 
October 1, 2008. Following Comcast's purchase of majority control of NBCUniversal, 
which already owned NBC owned-and-operated station KNTV (channel 11) and 
Telemundo O&O KSTS (channel 48), on April 19, 2011, the network announced 
plans to build an additional set specifically for use on sports segments 
seen on KNTV's newscasts. The revamp would also include in-depth interviews 
in addition to providing scores and highlights, and utilize CSN Bay Area's 
sports anchors and analysts.[6] CSN Bay Area holds the regional cable television 
rights to the San Francisco Giants of Major League Baseball and the NBA's 
Golden State Warriors, and also televises select games from Major League 
Soccer's San Jose Earthquakes along with sister network Comcast SportsNet 
California. The channel also broadcasts college sports sanctioned by the 
West Coast Conference. Select high school sports events are also occasionally 
broadcast on the network. Until 2004, the network also broadcast games 
involving the NBA's Sacramento Kings. Following the expiration of their 
contracts with the then-FSN Bay Area, the owners of the Kings partnered 
with Comcast to create CSN Bay Area's sister channel, Comcast SportsNet 
West (now CSN California).CSN Bay Area was also home to the Oakland Athletics 
Major League Baseball franchise until the end of the 2008 season, when 
the team's games also moved to CSN California; similarly, CSN Bay Area 
was the home of the NHL's San Jose Sharks until the end of the 2008–09 
NHL season when their games also moved to Comcast SportsNet California. 
CSN Bay Area also televised select California Golden Bears and Stanford 
Cardinal sports not on national television before the third-tier rights 
to their games moved to Pac-12 Network upon its launch in 2012. Through 
its partial ownership by Fox, CSN Bay Area formerly carried programming 
distributed nationally for Fox Sports Networks affiliates, even after relinquishing 
controlling ownership of the network to Comcast and the Giants. This included 
access to a variety of college sports, notably Sunday telecasts of men's 
and women's basketball games from the Atlantic Coast Conference, Pac-12 
basketball games on various nights, as well as Saturday telecasts of football 
games from the Pac-12 and Big 12 Conferences during their respective seasons. 
Most of that programming has shifted to Fox Sports' national sports network 
Fox Sports 1 or Fox College Sports, with Comcast SportsNet having dropped 
FSN-distributed programming in September 2012 after the two parties were 
unable to renew their program content agreement.[7] This arrangement was 
formed to secure national coverage for its lineup of collegiate sports 
events. The channel also aired simulcasts of radio shows such as The Dan 
Patrick Show until those programs were inherited by NBC Sports Network. 
In 2011, Comcast integrated the CSN networks, including CSN Bay Area into 
the new subsidiary NBC Sports Group (pictured above), culminating with 
the addition of the peacock logo and an updated graphics package to mirror 
that of its parent network. CSN Bay Area's SportsNet Central is a half-hour 
newscast featuring in-depth, comprehensive news coverage on the local teams, 
interviews with players and coaches, expert analysis, breaking local and 
national news, up-to-the-minute scores, the extensive video highlights 
and daily insider reports. SportsNet Central airs seven nights a week at 
6 p.m., 10:30 p.m. and midnight. Hosted by veteran Bay Area sports announcer 
Jim Kozimor, SportsTalk Live – airs Monday-Friday at 5 p.m. on CSN Bay 
Area – is a live, hour-long sports talk show featuring opinionated commentary, 
in-depth analysis and lively debate on the day's trending sports stories. 
The show features a wide array of guests including local and national media, 
athletes, coaches, front-office executives and other notables from the 
sports and entertainment industries. Prior to every home game at Levi's 
Stadium, CSN Bay Area kicks off its 49ers game day coverage with 49ers 
Pregame Live – the only live, locally produced 49ers pregame show. 49ers 
Pregame Live – a one-hour pregame show – provides the latest game day news, 
player updates, a detailed X's and O's game preview breakdown and analysis 
and on-field pregame reports. 49ers Pregame Live is hosted by CSN's award-winning 
anchor/reporter Dave Feldman, former 49ers defensive end and Super Bowl 
XXIX champion Dennis Brown, and former 49ers running back and Super Bowl 
XXIX champion Ricky Watters. Plus, CSN's 49ers reporter Mindi Bach, CSNBayArea.com 
49ers Insider Matt Maiocco, and 49ers radio play-by-play announcer Ted 
Robinson will provide additional pregame coverage with up-to-the-minute 
game day information. 49ers Pregame Live broadcasts live from the Faithful 
Mile – the official tailgate party location of 49ers games at Levi's Stadium 
– one hour prior to every home game during the season. 49ers Postgame Live, 
"the official postgame show of the 49ers," is a comprehensive one-hour 
show featuring in-depth game analysis, locker room interviews and player 
reactions, full coverage of head coach Chip Kelly and key players’ press 
conferences and a preview of the following week's game. 49ers Postgame 
Live is hosted by Dave Feldman and features detailed postgame analysis 
from Dennis Brown and Ricky Watters. Mindi Bach and Matt Maiocco will also 
provide immediate postgame interviews and reaction from 49ers players and 
coaches. During home games, the network broadcasts from its exclusive, 
state-of-the-art television studio – CSN Bay Area Studios at Levi's Stadium. 
49ers Central, a half-hour show, is hosted by Dave Feldman along with weekly 
contributions from 49ers analysts Dennis Brown and Ricky Watters, 49ers 
reporter Mindi Bach, and Insider Matt Maiocco. Throughout the NFL season, 
49ers Central features interviews with players and coaches, examines the 
pivotal plays from the previous week's game, and provides extensive analysis 
of the 49ers’ upcoming opponents. The show can be seen regularly on Wednesdays 
with re-airs throughout the week on CSN Bay Area. Hosted by Dave Feldman 
along with analysis from Dennis Brown, Ricky Watters, and CSNBayArea.com 
Senior Insider Ray Ratto, 49ers Press Conference Live presents coverage 
from Chip Kelly's weekly press conference from the 49ers practice facility 
in Santa Clara. The one-hour program originates from the network's San 
Francisco studios, with Mindi Bach and Matt Maiocco reporting live from 
Santa Clara. Throughout the season, 49ers Press Conference Live airs at 
12 p.m. the day following the game on CSN Bay Area. Prior to the Golden 
State Warriors regular season and postseason games, fans can catch the 
latest team developments, interviews with players and coaches, and game 
previews on Warriors Pregame Live. Immediately following the game, Warriors 
Postgame Live give viewers an in-depth game breakdown with stats and highlights, 
locker room interviews, and a preview of the next game. Warriors Pregame 
Live and Warriors Postgame Live are anchored by three-time California Sportscaster 
of the Year Greg Papa with expert analysis from former Warriors general 
manager and head coach Garry St. Jean. Additional analysis will be provided 
by CSNBayArea.com's Warriors Insider Monte Poole and sideline reporter 
Rosalyn Gold-Onwude. Each month of the NBA season, Warriors Central – a 
monthly half-hour magazine-style show –give fans an inside look at the 
Warriors both on and off the court. Hosted by Rosalyn Gold-Onwude, Warriors 
Central feature interviews with players, coaches and members of the front 
office, behind-the-scenes footage, exciting game highlights, and more. 
Prior to the San Francisco Giants regular season and postseason games, 
Giants Pregame Live will provide a preview of the upcoming contest, exclusive 
pregame interviews, feature stories on Giants players and the latest team 
news. Immediately following the game, Giants Postgame Live will provide 
in-depth game analysis, game highlights, clubhouse interviews with coaches 
and players, player reactions and a preview of the next contest. The shows 
are anchored by three-time California Sportscaster of the Year Greg Papa, 
along with an analyst rotation of former Giants Jeremy Affeldt, Rich Aurilia, 
Vida Blue, Shawn Estes, Tim Flannery, Bill Laskey and Randy Winn. Each 
month of the MLB season, G Mag – a monthly half-hour magazine show – give 
fans an inside look at the San Francisco Giants both on and off the field. 
Hosted by Amy Gutierrez, G Mag feature in depth interviews with players, 
coaches, and members of the organization, behind the scenes access, game 
highlights and more. Besides the main channel and its sister channel Comcast 
SportsNet California, CSN Bay Area also operates two additional channels 
to distribute their programming. CSN Plus is an overflow channel utilized 
by both CSN Bay Area and CSN California for scheduling conflicts when more 
than one team broadcast by the network is playing at the same time.[8] 
If there are additional scheduling conflicts, such as when the Warriors, 
Sharks and Kings play simultaneously, one game will air on CSN Plus.[9] 
CSN Bay Area's live Warriors coverage is accessible through the Live Extra 
video player on CSNBayArea.com, or via the NBC Sports Live Extra app for 
mobile devices and tablets, which can be downloaded from the App Store 
for iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch, and on select devices. CSN Bay Area plays 
a role in the community outside of sporting events. CSN founded the "All-Star 
Teacher" program to recognize excellence in middle and high school teachers 
in Northern and Central California that show an extraordinary dedication 
to their students and respective communities. In July, five finalists are 
honored at an on field ceremony at AT&T Park, in which CSN President Ted 
Griggs announces the winner (pictured), who wins $20,000 for his or her 
school.[10] The other four finalists each receive $2,000 for their respective 
schools.[11] For the past two years, CSN Bay Area has hosted the Coaching 
Corps Game Changer Awards, supporting the mission to provide youth from 
under-resourced communities access to trained coaches and the benefits 
of sports activities and team-based training.[12] The event features top 
Bay Area professional athletes, such as Stephen Curry and Hunter Pence, 
celebrating the influence coaches have had on their lives and in the community.[13] 
Additional awards handed out include the "Coaching Corps Lifetime Achievement 
Award" and "Volunteer Coach of the Year Award." The 90 minute program is 
hosted by CSN Bay Area's Dave Feldman and Ahmed Fareed, along with Rosalyn 
Gold-Onwude. CSN's broadcast shows the award ceremony and celebrates the 
profound influence that those being honored have had on their players and 
community.[14] CSN Bay Area hosts Say Hey Tuesday, live shows on location 
from AT&T Park before every Tuesday home game for the San Francisco Giants. 
Every Tuesday night home game that the network broadcasts, Giants Pregame 
Live (6:30 p.m.) and Giants Postgame Live (after the game) originates from 
Willie Mays Plaza. SportsTalk Live (5 p.m.) will occasionally air from 
Willie Mays Plaza for Say Hey Tuesday. The general public is encouraged 
to attend the live broadcasts. Additionally, fans receive free CSN giveaways. 
CSN works closely with the Giants organization in their preseason fan fest 
every February, aimed at getting fans excited for the upcoming season.[15] 
CSN Bay Area hosts Authentic Fan Friday at Oracle Arena for every Friday 
Warriors home game during the regular season. Fans will receive a collector's 
edition cheer card and free CSN giveaways and will have the opportunity 
to win Warriors tickets. Fans sitting in the "Authentic Fan" section will 
