Comerica Park is an open-air ballpark located in Downtown Detroit. It serves 
as the home of the Detroit Tigers of Major League Baseball, replacing Tiger 
Stadium in 2000. The park is named after Comerica Bank, which was founded 
in Detroit and was based there when the park opened. Comerica's headquarters 
have since been moved to Dallas, though the bank still retains a large 
presence in Detroit. The stadium's seating capacity is 41,297. There is 
a Detroit People Mover station about a block from the stadium (at Grand 
Circus Park). Comerica Park sits on the original site of the Detroit College 
of Law. Since their founding in 1901, the Tigers had played at the corner 
of Michigan and Trumbull Avenues in Detroit's Corktown section. For the 
last 88 of those years, they played at what eventually became Tiger Stadium. 
By the mid-1990s, it had become apparent that the much-beloved park could 
not be renovated any further.[9] Groundbreaking for a new ballpark to replace 
Tiger Stadium for the Tigers was held on October 29, 1997 and the new stadium 
was opened to the public in 2000. At the time of construction, the scoreboard 
in left field was the largest in Major League Baseball.[10] The first game 
was held on April 11, 2000, against the Seattle Mariners. The new stadium 
is part of a downtown revitalization plan for the city of Detroit, which 
included the construction of Ford Field, adjacent to the park. In December 
1998, Comerica Bank agreed to pay $66 million over 30 years for the naming 
rights for the new ballpark. Upon its opening, there was some effort to 
try to find a nickname for the park, with the abbreviation CoPa suggested 
by many. It is often referred to simply as Comerica. The first playoff 
game at Comerica was played on October 6, 2006 against the New York Yankees. 
It hosted its first World Series later that month. In contrast to Tiger 
Stadium, which had long been considered one of the most hitter-friendly 
parks in baseball, Comerica Park is considered to be extremely friendly 
to pitchers. Except for dead center—420 feet (130 m) versus Tiger Stadium's 
440 feet (130 m)—the outfield dimensions were more expansive than those 
at Tiger Stadium. This led to complaints from players and fans alike, most 
famously from Bobby Higginson who sarcastically called the venue Comerica 
National Park.[11] After Minute Maid Park reduces its center field fence 
from 436 feet (133 m) to 409 feet (125 m) in 2017, 420 feet will be the 
longest in baseball. Although a few public figures—notably radio announcer 
Ernie Harwell—supported the dimensions, most agreed that the left-field 
wall, in particular, needed to be brought closer to home plate. Before 
the 2003 MLB season the club did so, moving the distance from left-center 
field from 395 to 370 feet (120 to 113 m). This also removed the flagpole 
from the field of play, originally incorporated as an homage to Tiger Stadium. 
Two years later, the bullpens were moved from right field to an empty area 
in left field created when the fence was moved in. In place of the old 
bullpens in right field, 950 seats were added for a new capacity of 41,070. 
This made one of the most pitcher-friendly ballparks transform into the 
third most batter-friendly (with extra bases also taken into account)[12] 
Also of note, the current layout of the playing field at Comerica Park 
means that when a player is at bat, the direction he is facing looks farther 
to the south than at any other Major League Baseball park.[13] The stadium 
also includes many baseball-themed features, including a "Monument Park" 
in the deep center field stands, complete with statues of former Tigers 
Ty Cobb, Hal Newhouser, Charlie Gehringer, Hank Greenberg, Al Kaline, and 
Willie Horton. The first game at Comerica Park was held on Tuesday, April 
11, 2000 with 39,168 spectators attending, on a cold snowy afternoon. Temperatures 
during the afternoon ranged from 33.8 to 34 °F.[14] Grounds crew had to 
clear snow off the field from the night before. The Tigers defeated the 
Seattle Mariners 5–2. The winning pitcher, as in the final game at Tiger 
Stadium, was Brian Moehler. Original plans called for an F-16 flyover from 
nearby Selfridge Air National Guard Base and a parachutist carrying the 
first pitch ball and the rosin bag. Unfortunately, the weather caused a 
scratch of both occurrences. Nonetheless, there was a passing of the flag 
to the flagpole in center in reverse order as there was to take it down 
from Tiger Stadium. Elden Auker, who had received the flag at Tiger Stadium 
and given it to Brad Ausmus, passed the flag along a line of players to 
the flagpole in center. The unfurled 150x300 American flag is the largest 
in the nation, for the singing of the national anthem. Entrance to the 
ballpark is located across from the Fox Theatre and between two historic 
downtown churches, St. John Episcopal Church and Central United Methodist 
Church. Outside of the main entrance to the stadium there is a tiger statue 
that is approximately 15 feet (4.6 m) in height. There are 8 other heroic-sized 
tiger statues throughout the park, including two prowling on top of the 
scoreboard in left field. These tigers' eyes light up after a Tigers home 
run or a victory and the sound of a growling tiger plays as well. The tigers 
were originally created by sculptor Michael Keropian and fabricated by 
ShowMotion Inc. in Norwalk, Connecticut. Along the brick walls outside 
of the park are 33 tiger heads with lighted baseballs in their mouths. 
At the left-center field concourse there are statues of all of the players 
whose numbers have been retired by the Tigers (with the exception of Jackie 
Robinson, whose number was retired in every MLB park in 1997). They include 
Al Kaline, Charlie Gehringer, Hal Newhouser, Willie Horton, Hank Greenberg. 
A statue of Ty Cobb is also there, but he does not have a number, as he 
played baseball before players began to wear numbers on their uniforms. 
These players' names, along with the names of Hall of Fame players who 
spent a significant part of their career with the Tigers, are also on a 
wall in left center field. Added to the list of names are two other major 
Tigers figures. Hall of Fame manager Sparky Anderson, who led the Tigers 
to victory in the 1984 World Series and spent the majority of his managing 
career in Detroit, also has his number retired, but does not have a statue 
in the park. The other name on the wall is that of Ernie Harwell, the team's 
long-time radio announcer and a recipient of the Hall of Fame's Ford C. 
Frick Award for broadcasting excellence. Harwell has a statue just inside 
the stadium on the first base side. The field itself features a distinctive 
dirt strip between home plate and the pitcher's mound. This strip, sometimes 
known as the "keyhole", was common in early ballparks, yet very rare in 
modern facilities (the only other current major-league park to feature 
one is Chase Field in Phoenix). In the northeastern corner of the stadium 
behind the stands from the third base line is a Ferris wheel with twelve 
cars designed like baseballs. In the northwestern corner of the stadium 
behind the stands from the first base line is a carousel where guests ride 
on tigers instead of horses. The flagpole located between center and left 
fields was originally in play, as was the flag pole in Tiger Stadium. However, 
the left field wall was moved in front of the pole before the 2003 season. 
A ball that hits the pole is now ruled a home run. The right field of the 
stadium features the Pepsi Porch, a picnic deck between the 100 and 200 
level seating bowls. Also in right field, and part of the 100 level seating 
bowl, is an area of seats known as "Kaline's Corner" an homage to Hall 
of Fame right fielder Al Kaline who once played for the Tigers when the 
team played in Tiger Stadium. An LED scoreboard was added to the right-center 
field wall, and the upper deck fascia for the 2007 season. A giant fountain 
is located behind center field; playing displays during pre- and post-game 
activities, between innings, and whenever the Tigers score. General Motors 
sponsored the fountain from 2000 to 2008, and used the area to showcase 
GM manufactured vehicles as well. While GM dropped its sponsorship for 
the 2009 season due to financial issues, the GM branding was not removed 
from the fountain. Instead, signs for Chrysler and Ford were also added 
to the display, along with the message "The Detroit Tigers Support Our 
Automakers." In 2010, GM returned to sponsoring the display, now known 
as the Chevrolet Fountain A completely redesigned and upgraded left field 
video display debuted for the 2012 season.[15] The serif "TIGERS" letters 
were removed, replaced by light-up cursive lettering. The tiger cats were 
taken down, sent for cleaning and polishing, and replaced in similar spots. 
The analog clock was removed completely. A high-definition LED display 
was installed, much larger than the three displays that had existed there 
previously. The previous scoreboard utilized light bulbs - still a popular 
scoreboard technology around the time the park opened, though they were 
quickly aging as LED displays became available and were installed around 
other Major League ballparks.[16] The scoreboard was also raised 16 feet 
in an effort to address complaints that the scoreboard was too far left 
and thus obstructed by the left field upper deck. Along with the replacement 
scoreboard, all remaining bulb fascia scoreboards were also upgraded to 
LED. In 2014, the Detroit Tigers announced a $4 million renovation to Comerica 
Park's Pepsi Porch. This renovation includes the removal of the bleachers 
that once occupied this space and the addition of new stadium seats. The 
plan also includes new high top tables, a new bar in the middle of the 
porch, couches and lounge chairs, as well as a fire pit. The bleachers 
that once occupied this area will now be moved to the space above The Jungle 
restaurant and bar. Other features include: See Detroit Tigers#Retired 
numbers and honorees Comerica Park primarily serves as the home ballpark 
for the Detroit Tigers, who moved to the venue from Tiger Stadium in 2000. 
In 2005, Comerica Park hosted the 76th MLB All-Star Game, the first to 
be played in Detroit since 1971. In the Home Run Derby, held the day before, 
Bobby Abreu slammed 24 home runs in the first round, breaking the previous 
record of 15. Abreu won the Derby over Tiger Iván Rodríguez and hit a record 
41 homers during the event. In the All-Star Game, the American League won 
7–5 with Miguel Tejada winning the game's MVP award. On October 21, 2006, 
Comerica Park hosted the first World Series game in the history of the 
ballpark (Game 1 of the 2006 World Series). On June 12, 2007, the first 
no-hitter was thrown at Comerica Park by Justin Verlander. The Tigers won 
the game 4–0 against the Milwaukee Brewers. It was also the first no-hitter 
thrown by a Tiger in the city of Detroit since Virgil Trucks accomplished 
the feat in 1952. On May 24, 2008, the Tiger statue at the main entrance 
to the ballpark was dressed with a Detroit Red Wings jersey as the Red 
Wings were playing against the Pittsburgh Penguins in the Stanley Cup Finals 
during that time. Detroit defeated Pittsburgh in 6 games for the Stanley 
Cup. The jersey is usually worn by the Spirit of Detroit, but it was undergoing 
restoration during that time.[17] On April 29, 2009 in a game between the 
Tigers and the New York Yankees a fire alarm went off in the 8th inning. 
The scoreboard told fans to evacuate the ballpark without using the elevators. 
Players were about to be called off the field but home plate umpire Brian 
Runge checked with Tigers' manager Jim Leyland, who called the field security 
to confirm it was a false alarm. Fans returned to their seats. Yankees 
reliever Phil Coke, who had retired Curtis Granderson to start the inning, 
retired the side with no runs allowed. The Tigers then rallied for 5 runs 
in the 9th but the Yankees hung on to win 8-6. Comerica Park hosted its 
second World Series in 2012, with the Tigers getting swept by the San Francisco 
Giants. Comerica Park has played host to major recording acts in concert 
such as Dave Matthews Band (2000 & 2001), Eminem (2005), The Rolling Stones 
(2005), Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band (2003), Bon Jovi (2003), 
Paul McCartney (2011), Eminem & Rihanna on their Monster Tour (2014), The 
Rolling Stones Zip Code Tour (2015) and Zac Brown Band Jekyll & Hyde Tour 
(2015). The first act to play the venue was the Dave Matthews Band on July 
5, 2000. In full-stage shows, the stage is to the back of the center field 
grass with fan seating on the grass up to, but not on, the infield diamond. 
No seating is allowed on the infield diamond. The center field grass has 
been covered by special tiles during concerts. Tiger players and former 
manager Alan Trammell complained about the quality of the playing outfield 
in 2005 after successive concerts by Eminem and The Rolling Stones; however, 
concerts at the venue are popular for Detroiters since Comerica is one 
of the only outdoor concert venues in the city of Detroit, along with Chene 
Park and the DTE Energy Music Theatre in Clarkston, Michigan, approximately 
40 miles (64 km) north of Detroit. On July 27, 2007, Comerica hosted a 
stop of the 2007 Vans Warped Tour. Since then, Comerica become the annual 
stop of Detroit for The Warped Tour. Bands perform in the parking lot while 
merchandise and food vendors set up in the park itself. Comerica hosts 
the festival Kid Rock with Lynyrd Skynyrd and Robert Randolph and the Family 
Band performed at Comerica July 17, 2009. Kid Rock added a second night 
show for the 18th that featured Alice in Chains and Cypress Hill as opening 
acts. On August 15, 2003, a concert co-headlined by Kiss and Aerosmith 
and featuring local favorite Ted Nugent and Saliva had been planned for 
Comerica Park, but was postponed due to the Northeast Blackout of 2003 
the day before; the rescheduled concert took place on September 7. Eminem 
and Jay-Z performed at Comerica Park on September 2, 2010, and a second 
show on September 3, 2010. On July 24, 2011 the stadium hosted a sellout 
concert featuring Paul McCartney on his On the Run Tour.[18] On July 28, 
2012 Jimmy Buffett and his "Lounging at the Lagoon" tour came to Comerica 
Park. This concert was one of the first times Jimmy Buffett and his band 
had played in such a large venue, and outdoors. Lionel Richie was the opening 
act for the night. Buffett returned in 2013, and returned again on July 
26, 2014. The Rolling Stones performed at Comerica Park as part of their 
Zip Code tour on July 8, 2015. On February 9, 2012, NHL commissioner Gary 
Bettman announced that Comerica Park would host many events leading up 
to the 2013 NHL Winter Classic. These events would have included the NHL 
alumni game, as well as outdoor games from all levels, including youth, 
the Ontario Hockey League, and the Great Lakes Invitational. Due to the 
2012 NHL lockout, the event was cancelled.[19][20][21] The festival took 
place in December 2013, when an outdoor rink was set up on the infield 
of the ballpark for public skating, and hockey games featured the Great 
Lakes Invitational, play between the Ontario Hockey League, American Hockey 
