Comiskey Park was a ballpark in Chicago, Illinois, the home of the Chicago 
White Sox from 1910 through 1990. Built by owner Charles Comiskey and designed 
by Zachary Taylor Davis, it hosted four World Series and more than 6,000 
Major League Baseball games. The field was also the site of the 1937 heavyweight 
title match in which Joe Louis defeated then champion James J. Braddock 
in eight rounds. The Chicago Cardinals of the National Football League 
also called Comiskey Park home when they weren't playing at Normal Park 
or Soldier Field. The Cardinals won the 1947 NFL Championship Game over 
the Philadelphia Eagles at Comiskey Park. A new ballpark opened in 1991, 
across 35th Street and south of its predecessor, and Comiskey Park was 
demolished the same year. Originally also called Comiskey Park, it was 
renamed U.S. Cellular Field in 2003 and Guaranteed Rate Field in 2016. 
The park was built on a former city dump that Comiskey bought in 1909 to 
replace the wooden South Side Park. It was originally built as White Sox 
Park, but within three years was renamed for White Sox founder and owner 
Charles Comiskey. The original name, White Sox Park, was restored in 1962, 
but it went back to the Comiskey Park name in 1976.[3] Comiskey Park was 
very modern for its time. It was the third concrete-and-steel stadium in 
the major leagues to be built since 1909. As originally built, it seated 
almost 32,000, a record at the time. Briefly, it retained the nickname 
"The Baseball Palace of the World." The park's design was strongly influenced 
by Sox pitcher Ed Walsh, and was known for its pitcher-friendly proportions 
(362 feet to the foul poles; 420 feet to center field). Later changes were 
made, but the park remained more or less favorable to defensive teams. 
For many years this reflected on the White Sox style of play: solid defense, 
and short, quick hits. The park was unusual in that no player ever hit 
100 home runs there: Carlton Fisk set the record with 94.[4] The first 
game in Comiskey Park was a 2–0 loss to the St. Louis Browns on July 1, 
1910. The last game at Comiskey was a win, 2–1, over the Seattle Mariners 
on September 30, 1990. The White Sox won their first-ever home night game, 
over St. Louis on August 14, 1939, 5–2. The first no-hitter at Comiskey 
Park was hurled by Vern Kennedy on August 31, 1935, in a 5–0 win over Cleveland. 
Comiskey Park was the site of four World Series. In 1917, the Chicago White 
Sox won games 1, 2 and 5 at Comiskey Park and went on to defeat the New 
York Giants four games to two. In 1918, Comiskey Park hosted the World 
Series between the Chicago Cubs and Boston Red Sox. The Cubs borrowed Comiskey 
Park for the series because of its larger seating capacity. The Red Sox 
defeated the Cubs four games to two. Games one, two and three were played 
at Comiskey Park. The Red Sox won games one and three. Attendance was under 
capacity in that war year. The best crowd was game 3, with some 27,000 
patrons. In 1919, the White Sox lost the infamous "Black Sox" World Series 
to the Cincinnati Reds, five games to three in a nine-game series. Games 
three, four, five and eight were played at Comiskey Park. The White Sox 
won game three and lost games four, five and eight. In 1959, the White 
Sox lost four games to two to the Los Angeles Dodgers. Games one, two and 
six were played at Comiskey Park. The White Sox won game one and lost games 
two and six. With their win in Game 6 at Comiskey Park, the Los Angeles 
Dodgers became the first West Coast team to win a World Series. Comiskey 
saw its last post-season action in 1983, when the White Sox lost the American 
League Championship Series to the Baltimore Orioles, 3 games to 1, with 
games 3 and 4 being in Chicago. Comiskey Park was the site of three Major 
League Baseball All-Star Games, and each of them marked a turn in the direction 
of dominance by one league or the other: This coincidental connection of 
White Sox ballparks to significant points in All-Star history would continue 
at U.S. Cellular Field. Beginning with the game at the Cell in 2003, new 
rules awarded the winning league home field advantage in the World Series. 
The American League All-Stars won the 2003 All-Star Game on Chicago's South 
Side, and began an American winning streak that continued through 2009. 
From the 1970s until its demolition in 1991, Comiskey was the oldest park 
still in use in Major League Baseball. Many of its known characteristics, 
such as the pinwheels on the "exploding" scoreboard, were installed by 
Bill Veeck (owner of the White Sox from 1959 to 1961, and again from 1976 
to 1981). Another Veeck innovation was the "picnic area", created by replacing 
portions of the left field walls (the side of the field not facing the 
setting sun) with screens and setting up picnic tables under the seating 
areas. This concept was later extended to right field. During Veeck's second 
ownership, he installed a shower behind the speaker horns in the center 
field bleachers, for fans to cool off on hot summer days. From 1960 to 
1990, Sox fans were also entertained by Andy the Clown, famous for his 
famous Jerry Colonna-like elongated cry, "Come ooooooooooon, go! White! 
Sox!". Starting in the 1970s, Sox fans were further entertained by organist 
Nancy Faust who picked up on, and reinforced, the spontaneous chants of 
fans who were singing tunes like, "We will, we will, SOX YOU!" and the 
now-ubiquitous farewell to departing pitchers and ejected managers, "Na-na-na-na, 
na-na-na-na, hey-hey, GOOD-BYE!" Before he became an institution on the 
north side with the Cubs, Sox broadcaster Harry Caray was a south side 
icon. At some point he started "conducting" Take Me Out to the Ball Game 
during the seventh-inning stretch, egged on by Veeck, who (according to 
Harry himself) said that the fans would sing along when they realized that 
none of them sang any worse than Harry did. Harry would sometimes broadcast 
from the center field bleachers, where he could hobnob with fans and get 
a suntan (or a burn). The largest crowd ever at Old Comiskey Park was in 
1973 with a crowd of 55,555 (which was 11,063 over capacity) on May 20 
for a doubleheader against the Minnesota Twins, which also had the promotion 
of "Bat Day". By contrast, just over two years earlier, the smallest attendance 
at the park was recorded, with a puny number of 511 souls showing up for 
a game against the Boston Red Sox on Thursday, May 6, 1971. The most famous 
(or infamous) promotional event ever held at Old Comiskey was "Disco Demolition 
Night" in 1979, organized by longtime Chicago radio personality Steve Dahl 
and White Sox promotions manager Mike Veeck (Bill's son) on Thursday, July 
12.[6][7] Between games of a make-up doubleheader between the White Sox 
and the Detroit Tigers, Dahl and his crew destroyed a pile of disco records 
that fans had brought in exchange for a ticket with a discounted price 
of 98¢ in honor of Dahl's station at that time, WLUP-FM, the frequency 
of which was 97.9 MHz (98 FM). More than 50,000 fans were in attendance, 
along with another 20,000 who crashed the gates even though the game was 
sold out.[8] The demolition tore a huge hole in center field and several 
thousand fans, many of them intoxicated, stormed the field, stole equipment, 
and destroyed the infield. The nightcap was postponed,[9] but league officials 
ruled it a forfeit the next day,[10] the fourth in American League history, 
all in the 1970s.[11] Later, some blamed Dahl; some blamed Veeck. Howard 
Cosell even blamed then-White Sox announcer Harry Caray, saying Caray contributed 
to a "carnival" atmosphere. In reality, a handful of rowdies had taken 
advantage of a situation for which stadium security was woefully unprepared. 
"I never thought that I, a stupid disc jockey, could draw 70,000 people 
to a disco demolition", Dahl said in a Tribune interview. "Unfortunately, 
some of our followers got a little carried away." That was the last anti-disco 
rally for WLUP. But it brought Dahl national attention and established 
him as a radio superstar in Chicago.[12] When Bill Veeck re-acquired the 
team, he took out the center field fence, reverting to the original distance 
to the wall (posted as 440 in the 1940s, re-measured as 445 in the 1970s) ... 
a tough target, but reachable by sluggers like Oscar Gamble and Richie 
Zisk and other members of a team that was tagged "The South Side Hit Men". 
They were long removed from their days as "The Hitless Wonders". During 
that time the ballpark also featured a lounge where one could buy mixed 
drinks. This prompted some writers to dub Comiskey "Chicago's Largest Outdoor 
Saloon". In 1969, AstroTurf was installed in the infield and the adjacent 
foul territory, with the outfield and adjoining foul territory remaining 
as natural grass. It was the first outdoor field in the major leagues to 
install artificial turf.[13] After seven seasons, the artificial turf was 
removed prior to the 1976 season.[3][14] During the last 8 years of its 
existence, Comiskey's annual attendance surpassed the 2 million mark three 
times, including the final season when the team contended for much of the 
year before losing the division title to the Oakland Athletics. White Sox 
owner Jerry Reinsdorf received more than $200 million in public financing 
for the new stadium after threatening to move the club to St. Petersburg, 
Florida (a similar threat was later used by the San Francisco Giants until 
they broke ground on what would be their current ballpark in late 1997). 
An interesting phenomenon occurred in the Illinois state legislature, in 
that the Speaker (Michael Madigan) literally stopped the clock on the evening 
of June 30, 1988 so that the legislature could report that the money had 
been granted on June 30, and not July 1. The stadium now called Tropicana 
Field was constructed by officials in St. Petersburg in an effort to lure 
a Major League Baseball club to Florida (which arrived in 1998 in the form 
of the expansion Devil Rays), but Miami beat the Tampa Bay area to the 
punch when it launched the expansion Florida Marlins in 1993. The deal 
was sealed in a last-minute legislative maneuver by then-governor James 
R. Thompson.[15] Comiskey Park was demolished in 1991, a process that started 
from behind the right field corner, and took all summer. The last portion 
to come down was the center field bleachers and the "exploding" scoreboard. 
The site of the old park was turned into a parking lot to serve those attending 
games at the new Comiskey Park (later renamed U.S. Cellular Field). At 
the time Comiskey was demolished, Chicago's two baseball stadiums were 
a combined 157 years old. Bill Veeck once remarked that "There is no more 
beautiful sight in the world than a ballpark full of people!" On its best 
days, Comiskey was stuffed to the gills, with 55,000 people or more lining 
the aisles and even standing for 9 (or 18) innings on the sloping ramps 
that criss-crossed behind the scoreboard. The nearly-fully enclosed stands 
had a way of capturing and reverberating the noise without any artificial 
enhancement. As a Chicago sportswriter once remarked, "Wrigley Field yayed 
and Comiskey Park roared." 'Old' Comiskey's home plate is a marble plaque 
on the sidewalk next to U.S. Cellular Field, and the field is a parking 
lot. Foul lines are painted on the lot. Also, the spectator ramp across 
35th Street is designed in such a way (partly curved, partly straight but 
angling east-northeast) that it echoes the outline of part of the old grandstand. 
Shortly before the park's demolition, the ballpark was featured in the 
movie Only the Lonely. John Candy's character (on a first date) arranged 
to have a private picnic on the stadium grass under the lights with his 
date (Ally Sheedy). Candy referenced the stadium's impending demolition 
during the date. When the Sox won the 2005 World Series, their victory 
parade began at U.S. Cellular Field, and then circled the block where old 
Comiskey had stood, before heading on a route through various south side 
