Community College of Allegheny County (CCAC) is a community college in 
the Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania area. With four campuses and four centers, 
the college offers associate's degrees, certificate and diploma programs. 
The college opened Boyce Campus, in Monroeville, and Allegheny Campus, 
on Pittsburgh's North Side, in 1966. The following year, South Campus was 
opened; North Campus opened in 1972. The college also has centers, beyond 
the main campuses, that offer classes. CCAC offers more than 150 programs, 
as well as lifelong learning, community education, continuing education 
and workforce training courses. During the 2012-2013 academic year, it 
had more than 32,000 credit and 28,000 non-credit students. Through articulation 
agreements, students are guaranteed admission, and the recognition of courses, 
at a number of institutions offering four-year degrees. CCAC's academic 
programs lead to an associate degree, a certificate, or transfer to a four-year 
institution. There are four student-run newspapers: the Allegheny View, 
the Boyce Collegian, the South Forum and the North Voice. The Community 
College of Allegheny County has a campus or center within ten miles (16 km) 
of more than 95% of Allegheny County residents. In Pittsburgh's Central 
Northside neighborhood and surrounded by Heinz Field, PNC Park, the Carnegie 
Science Center, and other notable landmarks, CCAC’s Allegheny Campus is 
the largest and only urban campus of the college. Allegheny Campus features 
a blend of modern and historic architecture set on 10 acres (40,000 m2) 
in a neighborhood once known as Pittsburgh’s Millionaires’ Row and extending 
to the once posh "Monument Hill" area (that rises above and behind modern 
day Heinz Field) so named for a Civil War monument dedicated on May 30, 
1871 by General George G. Meade and Governor John W. Geary. The centerpiece 
of the campus is the Student Services center, a 52,000-square-foot (4,800 m2) 
hub housing the enrollment and financial aid offices, classrooms, a student 
lounge, dining facilities and a 300-seat theatre/auditorium. The campus 
also features a library, physical education facilities and Milton Hall, 
the main campus classroom building. Along scenic Ridge Avenue and Galveston 
Street are the following: West Hall, Jones Hall, the general administration 
building; Byers Hall, housing the offices of the President; and the Visual 
Arts Center. In March 2013, the K. Leroy Irvis Science Center was dedicated. 
The 65,000-square foot building was constructed using green building technology, 
earning the highly coveted LEED Silver Energy rating. The building supports 
the course work in Biotechnology, Biology, Microbiology, Anatomy and Physiology, 
Chemistry, Organic Chemistry, Physics, Geology, Astronomy and Physical 
Science. The Boyce Campus, named after William D. Boyce who founded the 
Boy Scouts of America, is on a 120 acres (0.49 km2) plot in suburban Monroeville, 
Pennsylvania and can be accessed by the Pennsylvania Turnpike and Routes 
48 and Business 22. Adjacent to Boyce Park, the single-building campus 
features a park-like setting and commanding views of the countryside. The 
first of the four campuses to officially commence classes on September 
19, 1966, Boyce moved to its current location in time for the start of 
fall classes in 1969. With all of its programs under one roof, the multi-purpose 
building houses a gymnasium, cafeteria, theater, state-of-the-art library, 
high-tech medical instruction facilities and an award-winning child development 
center. Boyce also provides the community, students, faculty and staff 
with parking, an exercise room, an extensive outdoor fitness trail and 
regulation baseball and soccer fields. A Pennsylvania State Historical 
Marker in the parking lot recognizes Boyce's contributions to Scouting.[1] 
CCAC's North Campus, located in suburban McCandless Township, Pennsylvania, 
was established in 1972 and is housed in a 150,000-square-foot (14,000 
m2), single-building campus. Located approximately 12 miles (19 km) north 
of downtown Pittsburgh, the campus draws more than 38,000 students from 
Pittsburgh's northern and western suburbs every year. North Campus offers 
academic, workforce development and continuing education programs and classes. 
North Campus offers more than 55 different certificate and associate degrees, 
including Accounting and Business Management, Child Development, Computer 
& Information Science, Criminal Justice & Criminology, Land Administration, 
Tourism Management, Social Work, Nursing, and American Sign Language & 
Interpreting programs of study. In suburban West Mifflin, CCAC’s South 
Campus serves Allegheny County’s southern communities and the Mon Valley 
region. The campus is located off of Route 885 not far from Century III 
Mall and is easily accessed by routes 51 and 43 (the Mon Valley Expressway) 
and by public transportation. The campus moved to its current six-story, 
comprehensive education facility in 1973. Its five buildings are connected 
by indoor walkways and house lecture halls, classrooms, a learning assistance 
center, a community library, a theater, a radio station, dining areas and 
office space. A solar-heated greenhouse is adjacent to the campus complex 
and provides botanical accents for picturesque outdoor walkways and trails. 
South Campus' recently expanded Learning Resource center includes computer 
and media centers and allied health and nursing laboratories. The campus 
also features a new Community Education center building containing continuing 
education offices, a gymnasium and a fully equipped fitness center, and 
the United States Steel Business and Industry center. CCAC has four centers 
in Allegheny and Washington counties. Replacing the former CCAC Braddock 
and Turtle Creek centers, the Braddock Hills center is in the Braddock 
Hills Shopping Center. The instruction facility contains six classrooms, 
three computer labs, videoconferencing facilities and a health careers 
program laboratory. The center offers degree and certificate programs, 
community education, and customized workforce job training for corporations 
and businesses. Situated on North Homewood Avenue, the Homewood-Brushton 
center is positioned to serve the city’s east-end neighborhoods and outlying 
suburbs. A community presence since 1967, the center’s current building 
dates from 1981, when popularity of the center’s programs necessitated 
the construction of a new 32,000-square-foot (3,000 m2) facility. The center 
houses classrooms, including a Learning Resource center, reading, computer, 
anatomy, chemistry and biology laboratories and videoconferencing facilities. 
The center offers a range of credit, non-credit and special programming 
year-round and hosts four active clubs, an after-school homework clinic, 
a math, science and computer institute conducted during the summer for 
kindergarten and grade-school age children and has established a relationship 
with the Carnegie Library of Homewood to be the center’s library. Numerous 
community groups use the center as a meeting and gathering place. Founded 
in 2001, the Washington County center is the college’s first and only center 
operating outside of Allegheny County. The center is located in Washington 
Crown Center mall. The center affords Washington County residents the ability 
to take a wide variety of credit, non-credit, community education, workforce 
training, dual enrollment (earmarked for high school juniors and seniors) 
and Act 48 training classes at the center and at locations throughout Washington 
County. Opened in spring 2007, CCAC’s West Hills center replaces the former 
Airport West and Technology centers. Located in a 150,000-square-foot (14,000 m2) 
facility in North Fayette Township, the center features spacious, well-lit 
classrooms, and comprehensive student life services. It also houses high-bay 
areas for automotive, HVAC, welding and other trade-related programs. The 
West Hills Center also has a book store[2] for students, faculty and staff.[3] 
On April 16, 2014 both President Barack Obama and Vice President Joe Biden 
