Baseball and cricket are the best-known members of a family of related 
bat-and-ball games. Despite their similarities, the two sports also have 
many differences in play and in strategy. A comparison between baseball 
and cricket can be instructive to followers of either sport, since the 
similarities help to highlight nuances particular to each game. Bat-and-ball 
games, in general, are sports in which one team (the fielding team) has 
possession of the ball and delivers it to a member of the other team (the 
batting team), who tries to hit it. The two opposing teams take turns playing 
these two distinct roles, which are continuous during a specified interval. 
This contrasts with "goal-oriented" games, such as all forms of football, 
hockey and basketball, in which possession of the ball or puck can change 
in an instant, and thus "attackers" and the "defenders" frequently reverse 
roles during the course of the game. In both cricket and baseball, the 
players of one team attempt to score points known as runs by hitting a 
ball with a bat, while the members of the other team field the ball in 
an attempt to prevent scoring and to put batting players out. Once a certain 
number of batting players are out (different in the two sports), the teams 
swap roles. This sequence of each team taking each role once is called 
an inning (plural innings) in baseball, and an innings (both singular and 
plural) in cricket. The single/plural usage in cricket is comparable to 
the baseball slang term for a single inning as the team's "ups". A baseball 
game consists of nine innings per team, while a cricket match may have 
either one or two innings per team. Other present-day bat-and-ball games 
include softball, stickball, rounders, stoolball, pesäpallo or Finnish 
baseball, punchball, kickball, and British baseball, which has similarities 
with both cricket and baseball. Earlier forms include The Massachusetts 
Game of baseball, which was similar to rounders, and one old cat and two 
old cat. Baseball is played in a quadrant of fair territory between foul 
lines. The official minimum distance from home plate to the nearest fence, 
stand or other obstruction is[1] 250 feet (76.2 m), and the recommended 
distances are at least 325 feet (99 m) along the foul lines and 400 feet 
(120 m) in centre field.[2] This produces a recommended fair territory 
field area just over 100,000 square feet (9,300 m2). Most Major League 
Baseball parks have fair territory areas in the range of 110,000 to 120,000 
square feet (10,000 to 11,000 m2).[3] In contrast, Test and One Day International 
cricket is played on a field with a minimum width of 420 feet (128.0 m) 
and length 426 feet (129.8 m), giving a minimum area of 140,500 square 
feet (13,050 m2), assuming an elliptical shape. However the shape of a 
cricket ground is not fixed. Test grounds around the world are typically 
450 by 500 feet (140 by 150 m), an area of about 175,000 square feet (16,300 m2), 
ranging up to 479 by 561 feet (146 by 171 m) or 270,000 square feet (25,000 m2) 
at Melbourne. Discounting the pitchers/bowlers and catchers/wicket-keepers, 
this means Major League Baseball fielders cover an average of about 16,500 
square feet (1,530 m2) per fielder, while Test cricketers cover 19,500 
square feet (1,810 m2) per fielder. That average is misleading because 
of the large difference between areas covered by outfielders and by infielders. 
In baseball, infielders cover a small area in which the ball moves very 
fast, while three outfielders cover a much greater proportion of the playing 
surface. This is often true— if not quite as pronounced— in cricket, although 
field placings in cricket can vary enormously. Fielders in both sports 
cover variable amounts of territory, with outfielders usually having to 
run much further to field a ball than infielders do. Another consequence 
is that the maximum distance from the batsman in cricket to the boundary 
is smaller than that from the batter in baseball to the outfield wall. 
Since the pitch in cricket lies at the centre of the field, a ball can 
often be driven beyond the furthest boundary by a blow that travels around 
275 feet (84 m). By contrast, a home run to 'deep centre' in baseball must 
travel more than 400 feet (122 m). This means that outfielders in baseball 
must frequently cover considerably greater distances than those fielding 
a ball in cricket. When hit squarely in baseball the ball leaves the bat 
at a higher velocity, and travels further, than in cricket. A batsman in 
cricket has a greater variety of strokes he can play, due to the lack of 
fouls and strikes; this combined with the shape of the field means he can 
play shots to score runs in any direction, including directly behind him. 
In cricket, the distance between the two wickets that the batsmen defend 
is 22 yards (20.1 m). The pitch is the 10-foot (3 metres) wide rectangular 
area between the wickets.[4] In baseball, the pitcher must deliver from 
a rubber slab (officially called the "pitcher's plate" and typically called 
"the mound") whose front is 60.5 feet (18.4 m) from the point of home plate 
(officially called "home plate" and often simply "home"). Before the advent 
of the pitcher's mound and the rubber, the pitcher threw from within a 
rectangular "pitcher's box". There was a large rectangular dirt area, between 
the pitcher's box and the batting areas around home, which resembled the 
cricket pitch. In cricket, the striker's end stumps and the bowling crease 
are 66 feet (20.1 m) apart. The popping creases are 4 feet (1.22 m) in 
front of the stumps and thus are 58 feet (17.7 m) apart. The bowler's release 
point could be perhaps 1 foot (0.3 m) beyond his popping crease (both positions 
change every over). The batsman tends to "take guard" or "block" on the 
popping crease, i.e. he stands 4 feet (1.22 m) in front of his stumps. 
That nets to a typical distance of about 57 feet (17.4 m) between delivery 
point and bat. In baseball, the pitcher's release point could be about 
55 feet (16.8 m) depending on his delivery style, but the batter also tends 
to stand back or "deep" in the batter's box, to maximise his time to "look 
the ball over", up to 2 feet (0.61 m) further from the pitching rubber 
than the point of home plate is. Thus the horizontal distance, from release 
of the ball by the pitcher/bowler to its arrival at the batter/batsman, 
is similar in both sports. However, the ball usually travels further in 
cricket as it normally bounces off the ground first, adding a significant 
vertical component to the total distance travelled.[5] The main difference 
in fielding in the two sports is that even though a cricket ball is harder 
and heavier than a baseball, the fielders in cricket are more restricted 
in the use of protection for the hands. The only fielders who can wear 
protective gear are the wicket-keeper, who is allowed to wear padded gloves 
as well as leg guards and a box; and fielders in potentially dangerous 
close-in positions such as silly point and short leg, who may wear shinpads, 
boxes and helmets but are not allowed any gloves. In baseball, catchers 
and first basemen normally wear mitts, which have no fingers and are specially 
designed for each respective position. The other fielders wear gloves with 
fingers. (Early baseball was also played bare-handed; gloves were adopted 
in the later 19th century.) This means that the risk of hand injury due 
to the impact of the ball is far higher in cricket. Also, especially in 
Test cricket, it is common for several fielders to be stationed close to 
the bat (slips, short leg, silly point and similar positions) since the 
likelihood and value of dismissing a batsman by a catch in a close fielding 
position is higher. Catching at these positions require exceptional reflexes, 
skill and courage, associated with bare-handed catching of a hard ball 
travelling at up to 100 miles per hour (160 km/h), with reaction times 
of the order of 0.2 seconds. Baseball games have far lower scores than 
cricket matches. The largest combined runs total in a single game in the 
history of Major League Baseball is 49, whereas first-class cricket matches, 
including Tests, have produced combined totals from all four innings of 
over 1000 runs. For a more direct comparison, matches in Twenty20 cricket, 
a form of limited overs cricket in which games last about the same time 
as a regulation baseball game, frequently produce combined run totals of 
300 or more, with the all-time record being 469. Each run in a baseball 
game is roughly 75 times as important as a run in a Test cricket match 
(or 10–20 times the value of a cricketer scoring 4 or 6 runs off a single 
ball); therefore moments of poor pitching and individual fielding mistakes 
are much more costly. A baseball player who is a good batter but who is 
not a competent fielder will not play regularly, or only in the designated 
hitter position in leagues that use it. Baseball players often need to 
throw immediately after catching the struck ball (for example, the double 
play), while this is unnecessary in cricket as the ball is deemed "dead" 
when a dismissal takes place. Hence, fielders in cricket have a greater 
incentive to dive and take a catch due to the fact that a run out is generally 
much harder to achieve in comparison to baseballers throwing runners out. 
The configuration of the baseball diamond effectively bars left-handers 
from the fielding positions that make throwing to first base a primary 
responsibility. Right-handers can throw to their left – i.e. toward first 
base – with much greater ease than can left-handers. So in practical terms, 
all second basemen, shortstops, and third basemen are right-handed. Left-handed 
catchers are also exceedingly rare; while the reasons appear to be primarily 
cultural, handling bunts up the third-base line and throws on plays at 
home pose particular obstacles to left-handed catchers.[6][7] While most 
throws a first baseman must make go to the right, which a left-hander can 
generally accomplish with greater speed and fluency, this is a relatively 
small factor to the advantage of a left-handed first baseman. More important 
advantages are related to the position of a left-handed first baseman with 
respect to the base. First, a left-handed first baseman has an advantage 
over his right-handed counterpart when catching a pickoff throw from the 
pitcher—when a first baseman is in pickoff position, standing in front 
of the bag, the left-hander can catch the ball and make a tag without having 
to move his arm across his body. (See the picture in the Strategy over 
the course of the game section below for the standard pickoff position 
with a right-handed first baseman.) Second, because the first baseman starts 
most plays with his left leg closer to the base, the left-hander does not 
have to make a half-pivot to get into the correct position to stretch out 
for a throw. For these reasons, left-handed throwers are far more common 
at first base than in the general population of baseball players. In contrast, 
cricket is fielded in the round: the handedness of the fielder in any given 
position is of far less consequence due to the priority being placed on 
catching rather than throwing, coupled with the fact that the batsmen are 
running in opposite directions, and both left-handed and right-handed throwers 
are found in all parts of the field. Body contact between runner and fielder 
is frequent in baseball, particularly at home plate. This is driven to 
a large extent by the manner in which a runner is put out. In both sports, 
rules prohibit interfering with runners. However, in baseball, the runner 
himself (or the base he is advancing to, if forced) must be tagged by a 
fielder holding the ball, to be put out. The catcher awaiting a throw will 
often stand between the plate and the runner. Once he catches it, the runner 
might try to go around the catcher, or he might simply bowl the catcher 
over, if he thinks he can dislodge the ball by such contact; and if the 
catcher does not have the ball, the runner may still bowl the catcher over, 
which is considered fair because by rule a fielder without a ball cannot 
impede a runner. By contrast, in cricket, the stumps are the target for 
"tagging" rather than the runner. No contact with the runners is either 
necessary or allowed. Contact between opposing sides is rare, and is usually 
not deliberate. Violent contact between players was once even greater in 
baseball, as before the Knickerbocker Rules it was permitted in some versions 
of the game to literally "throw out" a runner by hitting him (or "soaking" 
him) with a thrown ball (in lieu of hitting a base or stake that would 
equate to cricket's wickets). This rule still exists in some versions of 
the baseball variant called kickball, which is played with a soccer ball 
and thus is much less injurious. Except when played batting in a hands-down 
position, kickball also calls for literal "bowling" of the ball, underhand, 
as with the old rules of both cricket and baseball. "All 'round hands down" 
kickball leagues exist, but in most of these, the ball is pitched with 
the face or shoulders. One of the main differences between baseball and 
Test cricket is the primary intent of the batsman. Usually, in Test cricket, 
wickets come at a far higher premium, since survival is of primary importance. 
While nine innings per side are played in a baseball game within a few 
hours, only two per side are played in Test cricket over five days (thirty 
hours), so the cost of a dismissal is far higher in cricket. It should 
be kept in mind that a batsman in cricket is not obligated to take a run 
after striking the ball, nor is there any penalty for swinging at the ball 
and missing unless it hits the stumps (i.e. the wicket) (or, as often happens, 
makes a glancing contact with the bat and is caught) and there is no limit 
to the number of deliveries a batsman can face; a batsman with the required 
concentration, determination and technical ability often bats for several 
hours (occasionally days) without being dismissed. By contrast, in baseball 
a batter takes a serious penalty (a "strike") if he swings and misses: 
three strikes result in an out, and if the batter hits he must run. This 
contrast means that in cricket, unlike baseball, the quality of a batsman's 
defensive game and footwork (unlike baseball batters, cricket batsmen are 
not required to keep their back foot grounded when hitting the ball) are 
of the utmost importance. The nuances of batting technique are also greater 
in cricket, since the interplays between bowling variations, field placements 
and scoring strengths are more dynamic. Since cricket is played over an 
extended duration, the bowler and the fielding captain have time to "work 
over" a batsman (e.g. trying several different bowlers). Thus, cricket 
batting requires a very tight technique and the ability to withstand sustained 
examinations. The area for legal deliveries is much larger in cricket than 
it is in baseball, overlapping the batsman's entire body. Deliveries that 
reach the batsmen at rib or shoulder height are legal, and quite common. 
Depending on the form of the game, more or fewer deliveries can be bowled 
to reach the batsmen at throat or head level. Any fear or hesitation can 
lead to a batsman playing a poor shot which may result in him giving away 
his wicket (being dismissed). Since the cricket bat is wide and flat, while 
the baseball bat is narrow and round, on the whole cricket batsmen find 
it easier to hit and direct the ball than baseball batters, resulting in 
many more runs being scored in a cricket match. While bowlers can influence 
the ability of the batsmen to do so, perhaps the most famous episode being 
the Bodyline tactic, cricket batsmen can use a wider variety of batting 
strokes to direct the ball in many directions into a field which provides 
much more open space than in baseball. Keeping in mind, cricket batsmen 
are under no obligation to attempt to score a run after any stroke, but 
must strike balls to prevent them from hitting the wicket. Many strokes 
are in fact defensive in nature against a well-bowled ball and the quality 
of defensive batting is often the determining factor of a batsman's success 
over his career, especially in the longer forms of the game. By contrast, 
the balance of power is largely reversed in baseball. While particularly 
skilled batters have some ability to place hit and direct the ball to desired 
locations, the pitcher's influence is much more dramatic. Pitchers induce 
more ground outs, fly outs, or strikeouts, depending on the style of pitch. 
Thus particular pitchers are known for causing batters to make certain 
kinds of outs, depending on their mastered pitches. Also in contrast to 
cricket, baseball batters must attempt to take first base on any ball put 
into fair territory, and failing to do so will result in an out, but the 
size of the strike zone more strictly limits the set of deliveries that 
must be swung at compared to cricket. Like cricket, baseball batters do 
have a defensive tactic available; many batters will often attempt to deliberately 
foul off pitches that are strikes yet difficult to hit well, by hitting 
them into foul territory, awaiting an easier delivery later in the at-bat. 
Since an uncaught foul ball cannot be a third strike (unless it was a bunt 
attempt), this tactic allows the batter to receive more pitches. In the 
early generations of baseball, the emphasis was mostly on bat control, 
place hitting, bunting, etc. But, starting in 1919, several factors resulted 
in a dramatic expansion of strategic orientation, supplementing traditional 
"small ball" with the "power game": a "livelier" ball, because of better 
materials and a tighter weave; more frequent substitutions of new balls; 
lighter, more flexible bats; the outlawing of the spitball; and the increase 
in attendance which drove owners to build more outfield seating, thus reducing 
the outfield area significantly. The power game has been encouraged further 
in recent years, by the construction of new ballparks with smaller outfields 
than previously, and even the reduction of field size at "classic" ballparks 
known for spacious outfields; for example, the distance to the fence in 
deep left field at the original Yankee Stadium was reduced from 430 to 
399 feet (131 to 122 m) between 1984 and 1988 (the post-1988 dimensions 
were maintained at the current Yankee Stadium). Still, it is generally 
agreed that no one can hit a home run at will, and every successful batter 
knows never to go to the plate intending to hit a home run. Rather, he 
should attempt a level swing, try to pull only the ball on the inside of 
the plate, go the other way with balls low and outside, and otherwise start 
each at bat intending to drive the ball up the middle, which is the most 
vulnerable part of the infield (especially if the pitcher is not particularly 
good at fielding his position). The games emphasise power hitting to different 
degrees. Cricket requires the accumulation of large numbers of runs; and 
placement of the ball between the fielders produces runs efficiently and 
is generally accepted as a better strategy than "swinging for sixes". In 
baseball, power hitting can produce runs quickly and frequently in many 
situations, as well as force pitching changes and other fielding moves; 
but it can also result (because of the great difficulty of driving a ball 
off a cylindrical bat) in a great many strike outs, fly outs, and ground 
outs. In cricket situations can arise in a match where power hitting, also 
called "slogging", is required. This typically occurs towards the final 
overs of a limited overs game and can also be an option to get runs for 
batsmen even earlier in the innings. It is still quite risky. Cricket bowlers, 
since they are not restricted to a small strike zone as their target, also 
use a wide variety of approaches which are not available to baseball pitchers. 
These involve varying the line and length of deliveries and using unpredictable 
movement caused by the ball bouncing on the pitch before it reaches the 
batsman. Baseball pitchers, by contrast, must use changes in ball speed 
and movement (cricket bowlers also vary ball speed) caused only by air 
friction and spin to deceive batters, as most pitches which come near touching 
the ground are ineffectively[clarification needed] allowed to pass as balls. 
The raised undulating stitching on a baseball allows an accomplished pitcher 
to create a huge variety of motions in the air; even fastballs are thrown 
in such a way as to create certain kinds of movement. The cricket ball 
also moves in the air, to a lesser degree than the baseball, but it achieves 
its most pronounced movement on the bounce, with seamers landing to ball 
on the seam to create slight but unpredictable turn, and spinners using 
spin to create significant turn and bounce variation. Furthermore, pitchers 
must begin their throw from a stationary position, while bowlers may run 
up to their delivery. (In the early days of baseball, the pitcher pitched 
from anywhere within a "box" and so had more flexibility as to where to 
stand when releasing the ball, before the 1880s.) Baseball pitchers also 
throw from an elevated mound (10 in or 25 cm above the level of home plate), 
while cricket bowlers are at the same height as the batsman and must bowl 
with an overarm (or roundarm, a style rarely seen today) rotation of the 
arm during which the arm must not straighten by more than 15 degrees. (This 
was also a restriction on pitchers in the early days of baseball, abolished 
in the 1880s; today, baseball pitchers use a variety of delivery motions 
discussed below.) Despite the differences in delivery action, the delivery 
speeds are similar for both sports with the fastest bowlers and pitchers 
propelling the ball in the region of 95–100 mph (150–160 km/h): the fastest 
recorded cricket delivery is 100.2 mph (161.26 km/h)[8][9] with baseball's 
record quicker at 105 mph (169.0 km/h).[10] It is the case, however, that 
baseball pitches near or at 100 mph are considerably more common than bowled 
balls of comparable velocity in cricket. The bowler in cricket is much 
more restricted with respect to how much he can straighten his arm in delivering 
the ball, and this is one very significant reason why baseball pitchers 
can deliver the ball faster with more frequency. One main difference, however, 
is that the ball in cricket is harder and heavier in weight. The legal 
weight for the ball in baseball is from 5 to 5.25 ounces (142 to 149 g); 
whereas the ball in cricket must weigh between 5.5 and 5.8 ounces (156 
and 164 g). Another main reason for the difference in pace is that in baseball 
the ball reaches the batter on the full, whereas in cricket the ball is 
usually bounced off the pitch before reaching the batsman- which does take 
pace off the ball, especially on drier dustier pitches. A delivery in cricket 
that reaches the batsman without bouncing, known as a full toss, is legal 
so long as it is below waist high. However, this is usually considered 
a poor delivery as it is often quite easy to score runs from. Cricket's 
bowlers are grouped into different categories based on their bowling style—pacemen, 
seamers, off-spinners (or finger-spinners), leg-spinners (or wrist-spinners)—though 
a bowler may fall into more than one category (pace and seam bowling, for 
instance, largely overlap). The faster bowlers usually open the bowling, 
when the ball is at its hardest. Spin bowlers generally bowl later, when 
the ball has begun to deteriorate and become rough. Baseball's pitchers 
are classified primarily by their throwing hand (left or right, with left-handed 
pitchers often called "southpaws") and their usual role in games. A starting 
pitcher begins games, typically not more than one game in five, in a rotation 
with four teammates who are also starters who will start games in a sequential 
cycle, and usually pitch five or more innings. Starters rarely appear as 
substitutes in games started by others. A relief pitcher enters games later, 
sometimes on short notice in crisis situations in which there are already 
runners on base and/or the opponent's best hitters due to bat, and usually 
pitches fewer innings in any given game. But relievers may be called upon 
to pitch in several games consecutively. Some relievers even specialise 
further strictly as closers brought in just to pitch the last inning of 
a game in which his team leads by a narrow margin. Perhaps the most specialised 
group of relievers is left-handed specialists—left-handed pitchers who 
pitch almost exclusively to left-handed batters (sometimes to switch-hitters 
who are weaker batters right-handed). More often than not, such a pitcher 
will face only one batter in a given game. Pitchers are sometimes secondarily 
grouped according to pitching style, type of pitch most often used, or 
velocity. This is especially common when pitching technique is rare or 
unusual. For example, there are many different variations on how the pitch 
is delivered, including the conventional overhand in which the ball is 
thrown from the 12 o'clock position, 3/4 styles (with the arm moving towards 
the plate between 12 and 3 o'clock), as well as the less common sidearm 
(3 o'clock arm angle, compare roundarm bowling in cricket) and 'submarine' 
(below 3 o'clock, compare underarm bowling in cricket) deliveries. The 
submarine pitch is rare, and a pitcher who throws in this way usually has 
a 'submariner' attached to his name or description. Similarly, there are 
many kinds of pitches thrown, including the fastball, curve ball, slider, 
and knuckleball. Capable knuckleballers are extremely rare and are usually 
described by this skill first. For reasons that continue to spur debate, 
it is historically the case that most right-handed pitchers succeed at 
higher rates against right-handed hitters than against left-handers, and 
that most left-handed pitchers succeed at higher rates against left-handed 
hitters than right-handers. One substantial strategic element to baseball 
is to use this phenomenon as much as possible. Defenses try to force a 
match between pitcher and hitter by side, and offences attempt to mismatch 
them; both teams use substitutions at times to accomplish the desired outcome. 
One response to this phenomenon is that many hitters, among them a number 
of the finest and most powerful to play the game, such as Mickey Mantle, 
Eddie Murray, and Chipper Jones, became adept as youngsters to hitting 
both left-handed and right-handed to prevent defences from using that advantage 
against them. Many professional clubs employ as many as two or three switch 
hitters so as to neutralise the advantage of side selection. However, only 
one switch pitcher has played in the major leagues in modern times. In 
addition, if a baseball batter is struck with a pitch, he is awarded first 
base; "hitting" the batter includes hitting loose parts of his uniform 
without hitting his body (baseball rules specify that a player's person 
includes his uniform and equipment except for his bat). Pitchers may throw 
close to the batters, and a "brushback" is often used as an intimidation 
tactic. Deliberately hitting a batter is fairly uncommon, however, chiefly 
because it is punished severely. If the umpire believes a batter was intentionally 
hit, the umpire has his discretion on a first offence to warn both benches 
that the pitcher for either team will be expelled from the game if there 
are any further hit batsmen (the one baseball term in which "batsman" is 
used). The warning—and the power to expel if it is contravened—is intended 
not only to protect batters but to avert fighting; being hit by a fastball 
is taken seriously by batters, and bench-clearing brawls occasionally result 
when one team decides the other is deliberately throwing at its batters. 
Amazingly, in the history of the major league game, only one player has 
ever been killed by a pitched ball striking him in the head (Ray Chapman 
of the Cleveland Indians in 1920). This occurred before the invention of 
the batting helmet and was the principal cause for introducing this piece 
of equipment into the game as well as replacing dirty balls and outlawing 
the spitball. In cricket, bowlers consider the right to hit a batsman as 
part of their armoury; indeed, one of the most common methods of dismissal 
(leg before wicket) requires the bowler to hit the batsman's body rather 
than his bat. A fast bowler will punctuate his overs with deliveries intended 
to bounce up toward the batsman's head, either to induce a poor shot (which 
can be either defensive or attacking) which may result in the batsman being 
caught out, or to intimidate the batsman, making him less likely to play 
forward to the next few deliveries for fear of injury. These tactics have 
long been an accepted part of cricket. In the modern game, batsmen usually 
wear helmets and heavy padding, so that being struck by the ball only rarely 
results in significant injury—though it is nevertheless often painful, 
sometimes causing concussion or fractures (although it can also have fatal 
consequences: Phillip Hughes died after being struck in the head/neck area 
by a Sean Abbott bouncer during a Sheffield Shield match in 2014). Baseball 
batters wear helmets, but they are unsecured and lack the "cage" since 
only one side of the head/face is exposed. Catchers typically wear a helmet 
with a cage or protective bars. An equivalent ball to striking the batter 
in baseball would be a beamer, where the ball hits the batter's upper body 
area without bouncing first. These are rare and usually caused by the ball 
slipping out of the top of the bowler's hand. The even rarer intentional 
beamer provokes strong reaction from batter and crowd alike. The umpire 
is authorised to take disciplinary action in such instances. The bowler 
is generally given a first warning, and is dismissed from the game if the 
offence is repeated. A notable such case was between Waqar Younis and Andrew 
Symonds: Younis was banned from bowling by umpire David Shepherd for delivering 
a beamer to Symonds in a match between Pakistan and Australia at the 2003 
World Cup; it was the first of only two times it's ever happened during 
an international match. There is a major difference in the way in which 
different bowlers or pitchers contribute to a single game. In baseball, 
a single pitcher starts the game, and makes every pitch until the manager 
replaces the tiring pitcher with a relief pitcher. Replaced pitchers cannot 
return to pitch again in the same game (unless they are shuttled to another 
position in the field and thus stay in the line-up, a move rarely seen 
in the major leagues), and a succession of pitchers may come into the game 
in sequence until it ends. In cricket, two bowlers begin the game, with 
those not actively bowling spending time as fielders. Every player in the 
team, including the wicket-keeper but excluding the 12th man, is available 
to be used as a bowler. Bowlers alternate bowling overs of six balls each. 
A bowler will usually bowl for a 'spell' of several (alternate) overs, 
and will generally bowl the entire spell from the same end of the pitch. 
A second bowler will bowl the overs missed by the first, from the other 
end of the pitch, for his own spell. After a bowler is taken off, he may 
be, and often is, asked to bowl another spell later in the same innings. 
Although moving a pitcher to a fielding position and returning him to pitch 
later in the game is legal in baseball, it is a rarely used and potentially 
risky strategy, as the pitcher may be unprepared to play another position. 
The terms "bowling" and "pitching", as words, both denote underarm deliveries, 
as were once required in both games. The rules for delivery were also initially 
very similar. Once overhand deliveries were permitted in the respective 
sports, and pitchers were compelled to toe the pitching rubber instead 
of throwing from anywhere within the "pitcher's box", the actions of bowling 
and pitching diverged significantly. The "wide" in cricket and the "ball" 
in baseball both derive from the concept of a "fair" delivery, i.e. a delivery 
that the batter or batsman has a fair chance of making contact with his 
bat. While there is no sharply defined "strike zone" in cricket as there 
is in baseball (but there are lines known as the return crease perpendicular 
to the other crease lines which the umpires can use as a guide), in both 
cases the umpire must judge whether the ball was delivered fairly. Both 
the "wide" and the "ball" result in a "penalty". In cricket, like a no-ball 
a single run is scored and it does not count as a legal delivery. In baseball, 
a ball is called, and if a pitcher gives up four balls the batter is awarded 
first base, which is called a "base on balls" or a "walk". A walk will 
only score a run directly if the bases are already loaded, forcing the 
runner at third base to advance to home (known as "walking in a run"); 
otherwise the threat is merely of another runner reaching base instead 
of making an out. However, since runs are scored so much more frequently 
in cricket, the occasional wide, scoring a run directly, is not taken too 
seriously, although the extra delivery can be of vital significance toward 
the end of a match. In both games, a wide or a ball can be the decisive 
factor in winning a match or a game. Running plays a much larger role in 
baseball because of the low scoring; also, players on the batting team 
must run much further to score a run, because runners may remain in play 
(that is, on the bases) without scoring, and because baserunners can advance 
to the next base before the ball is hit again (steal the base) as soon 
as the ball is live. Base stealing often requires sliding, in which the 
runner throws himself to the ground to avoid being tagged or over-running 
the base. The runner may also deliberately slide into the fielder at the 
base he is trying to steal to keep him from catching the ball or to disrupt 
a double play. At home plate the runner often will simply, and legally, 
run into a catcher who is blocking the baseline but who does not have the 
ball (a defensive player may not impede the runner unless he has the ball 
or is in the process of catching it). The equivalent in cricket is almost 
impossible because the bowler is next to the runner, and in fact used to 
be able to mankad him if he strayed out of his crease; nowadays the batsman 
can leave the crease when the bowler's back foot touches the ground during 
his delivery action without risk of being 'mankaded'. Tactical running 
in cricket rarely strays beyond the consideration of "can I make it to 
the other end before the ball does". One exception of this is towards the 
end of a closely fought limited overs game, where a batsman (normally a 
tail-ender) would sacrifice his wicket to allow the better batsman to remain 
on strike, usually in the last few balls. While in baseball, steals, sacrificial 
running, forces, double plays, intimidation, and physical contact enter 
into the equation. Making contact with a fielder, as baserunners often 
do, would be unsportsmanlike in cricket, and unnecessary, as play stops 
when a single wicket is taken. Occasionally a cricket runner will dive 
over the crease, but in baseball this is a regular occurrence, as players 
are frequently forced to run even when their chances are slim. Since a 
team almost always scores fewer runs in a baseball game than its number 
of outs, a baserunner will frequently take risks attempting to advance 
an extra base or to score a run, resulting in close plays at a base. In 
cricket, since the number of runs scored is much greater than the number 
of wickets taken in a match, a batsman would be very foolish to risk getting 
run out in an attempt to score an extra run without a very high expected 
chance of success. In general, cricket batsmen are run out due to exceptional 
fielding, poor judgment/communication, or a combination of said factors. 
In baseball, runners are often out not of their own accord – they are simply 
forced out. A direct comparison is difficult since cricket is predominantly 
played in three different formats: Test (and other first-class matches), 
One Day (40–50 over games) and Twenty20. Of these, the Twenty20 format 
takes much the same time as a baseball game: around three to three-and-a-half 
hours. Baseball games are generally much shorter than Test and One Day 
cricket games. Most Major League Baseball games last between two-and-a-half 
and four-and-a-half hours. Because the Major League playing season is 6 
months long (183 days, between April and October with Spring training in 
February and March), with 81 games played at home and 81 away (162 in all, 
not counting the postseason or the All-Star Game), baseball teams often 
find themselves playing double-headers and series games. A doubleheader 
entails two games, played back to back, in one day. This usually occurs 
when a game needed to be rescheduled, and is a common occurrence at the 
beginning of the Major League season, which coincides with the rainy Spring 
season. Although they were once common, double-headers are rarely scheduled 
any more by teams, but are part of the culture of baseball, with Ernie 
Banks' "Let's play two" a famous refrain. A series occurs when two teams 
play on several consecutive days. This is a part of the regular schedule 
in baseball because of the number of games required in a season, and because 
there are large distances between stadiums in the US and Canada, thus conserving 
time and resources by allowing the teams to spend several days in a single 
location. In Major League Baseball there is a maximum of 20 days consecutively 
played before a break in games must be observed. Test Cricket games can 
last up to five days, with scheduled breaks each day for lunch and tea, 
giving three sessions of play each day. Full length games, for example 
between English counties or between Australian states, have a similar format 
to Test matches, but either three or four days are allowed. The limited 
overs versions of the sport usually last from five to seven hours, but 
can sometimes continue for longer than eight hours. Twenty20 has innings 
of twenty overs per team. One Day Internationals and Twenty20 cricket, 
with their inherent limit on the number of fair deliveries, do not have 
an exact equivalent in baseball. The closest comparison would be games 
that have a pre-set number of innings shorter than the standard 9 (as with 
the second game of a doubleheader at some levels) or a pre-set time limit 
of some kind, such as a curfew restriction, or in the case of one of baseball's 
cousins, recreational softball, a pre-set length of the game, such as one 
hour. A wide array of factors affect both games (from composition of the 
pitch or field soil to weather conditions, wind, and moisture) and numerous 
strategies in both games can be employed to exploit these factors. Other 
than the bowler, cricket places very few restrictions on fielding placement, 
even for the wicket-keeper, and its variety of bowling styles, 360 degrees 
of open field, wide bowling area (target zone), and so on give scope for 
strategic play. Notable exceptions include the limit of two fielders in 
the leg side quadrant, introduced to prevent the use of Bodyline tactics, 
and limiting outfield players in the early stages of limited overs matches 
and the subsequent introduction of powerplays. In baseball, there are very 
specific rules about the positions of the pitcher and the catcher at the 
start of each play. The positioning of the other seven fielders is as flexible 
as cricket, except that each one must start the play positioned in fair 
territory. The fielders are otherwise free to position themselves anywhere 
on the playing field, based on the game situation. A major element of strategy 
in these sports is the condition of the ball. Since bowling in cricket 
has more variations (such as bounce, swing, seam movement, off-spin, leg-spin 
and so on), the condition of the ball also affects play to a great degree. 
In Test cricket, the same ball must be used for at least 80 overs unless 
it is lost, damaged or illegally modified at which point it must be replaced 
with a ball in a similar condition. After the 80 overs, obtaining a new 
ball is at the discretion of the fielding captain – who will often ask 
for a new ball immediately, since a new ball is harder, bounces higher 
and has an intact seam, which produces greater conventional swing. But 
when a captain feels that a spin bowling attack is more likely to be successful, 
he will persist with the old ball, which is rougher and better grips the 
surface as well the bowler's fingers. In baseball the ball is replaced 
numerous times during a game to ensure it is in optimum condition. The 
aerodynamics of swing in cricket are different from baseball. Moreover, 
the raised seam also causes movement off the pitch in cricket, which is 
a very important part of medium pace bowling. Once a particular hemisphere 
of the cricket ball is more rough or scratched than the other, the fielding 
team meticulously works to preserve the shine on the other half by rubbing 
it on their clothes or by applying saliva (no "external" substances can 
be applied to alter the condition of the ball). Bowlers very carefully 
regulate their wrist position at the point of release to ensure the shine 
is preserved only on one half of the ball, since it will swing towards 
the rough side. The old ball in cricket also tends to generate greater 
amounts of reverse swing, which is swing towards the polished side. This 
can be exploited by genuinely fast bowlers (usually, those who can bowl 
over 90 mph or 140 km/h). Especially on pitches in the Indian sub-continent, 
which tend to have abrasive surfaces, bowlers might resort to bowling across 
the seam as early as the tenth over, so as to quickly scruff up the ball 
and generate reverse swing early on. Strategies that rely on early reverse 
swing also need the backup of effective spin bowlers to be able to exploit 
the roughed up ball. Due to these factors, a batsman in cricket needs to 
watch very carefully how the bowler grips the ball even during his run-up, 
as well as the type of revolutions on the ball[clarification needed] as 
it approaches. Master spin bowlers like Shane Warne and Muttiah Muralitharan, 
who were able to dramatically vary the trajectory, direction and extent 
of spin, frequently bowled deliveries with a scrambled seam to disguise 
the type of ball actually bowled. In cricket, since the strategies are 
greatly influenced by factors such as soil characteristics of the pitch, 
condition of the ball, time of the day, weather and atmospheric conditions, 
the decision to bat first or last is of great tactical importance. The 
team that wins the coin toss has the choice of batting first or last. This 
choice can be crucial to success; particularly in Test cricket. As the 
pitch is used for up to five consecutive days with little maintenance, 
the deterioration of the pitch with wear can have a major influence on 
the result of the match (e.g. typically the ability of spin bowlers to 
"turn" the ball increases toward the end of a Test match, whereas fast 
bowlers often prefer a harder and bouncier pitch often found at the start 
of a match). It is usual for some amount of grass to be left on the pitch 
on the first day of a Test, since it helps bind the surface. The presence 
of grass on the pitch is conducive for pace bowling, so a grassy pitch 
may also tempt a captain to field first. Sometimes, weather conditions 
also influence the decision, since a cloud cover has been found to assist 
swing bowling. Aggressive captains such as Allan Border of Australia have 
been known to bat first in Test cricket regardless of the conditions. In 
One Day International cricket, the time of day is also a crucial factor 
in determining the captain's decision at the toss. In some parts of the 
world, dew on the ground can be significant. In a day-night game, grounds 
in some countries like India or South Africa become wet due to dew, which 
makes it difficult for a spinner to grip the ball. The captain must balance 
this against a consideration for bowling becoming more effective under 
lights, since the ball might skid off any dew on the pitch or get assistance 
in swing from the cooler night-time air. Even for a day game, the captain 
might be inclined to exploit early morning dew on the pitch. In baseball, 
on the other hand, the "home" team always bats last. This was not originally 
the case. In the early years, the winner of a coin toss could decide whether 
to bat first or last. The more offence-oriented aspect of the early game 
might influence a team's decision to bat first and hope to get a quick 
lead. This led to the occasional unfortunate situation where the home town 
crowd would have to watch their team lose a game in the last of the ninth 
inning, in "sudden victory" fashion by the visiting team. By the late 1800s, 
the rule was changed to compel the home team to bat last. At a "neutral" 
site, such as the College World Series, the "home" team may be decided 
by coin toss, but that "home" team must bat last. In cricket, since the 
batsmen can hit the ball with greater variation and different objectives, 
the field placements are more important and varied. Modern-day coaches 
and captains have intricate knowledge of the strengths of opposition batsmen, 
so they try to plug the dominant scoring areas for each batsman. Moreover, 
since the bowling attack has greater variety in cricket, the field placements 
required for each type and line of attack also vary greatly. Depending 
on the scoring strengths of the batsman (off-side, leg-side, straight, 
square, front foot, back foot, power hitter, "finds the gap", "clears the 
field" and so on), the captain must make adjustments to the field each 
time the batting pair score a run and change ends, which can possibly happen 
after every ball in an over. To meet the demands of a speedy over-rate 
(typically, about 15 overs an hour), the captain must arrange the fielders 
in a way that they can swiftly interchange positions for the two batsmen. 
This is especially important if one batsman is right-handed, while the 
other is left-handed. And also in limited overs cricket if the umpires 
deem the over rate of the team fielding first is too slow they can dock 
them overs so they may have less than 20/50 overs to reach their target 
score when it is their turn to bat. Fielders in cricket can field in all 
positions, but modern players have specialised field positions. In particular, 
slip positions require special skills since the slip fielder is placed 
behind the batsman and the ball comes directly off the edge of the bat. 
Close catching positions such as forward short leg and silly point, as 
well as positions for the cut shot such as gully and point, require very 
fast reflexes and canny anticipation, so they are also specialist positions. 
In baseball, although only the positions of pitcher and catcher are prescribed 
by the rules, fielders' positions are dictated closely by custom, and shifts 
in fielders' positions according to circumstance are less dramatic; the 
strike zone and smaller angle of fair territory limit the usefulness of 
some strategies which cricket makes available to batsmen. The chief occasion 
on which fielding placement differs markedly from the usual is the presence 
of a pull, or dead-pull, hitter at bat (such hitters almost never, except 
on the rare occasion of a fluke or mishit, hit the ball in any direction 
except towards the same side of the field as they stand at the plate, i.e. 
a right-handed pull hitter hits everything toward left field). In such 
case the fielders will move so far in the direction of the pull that one 
half of the field is almost completely unprotected. This is called an overshift. 
A six-man infield has also been used when circumstances warrant. For the 
great majority of batters, however, the traditional fielding arrangement 
is used, with minor changes in position to accommodate the batter's power 
or bat-handling ability, the location of runners, or the number of outs. 
(For example, with a base runner on third with less than two out, the importance 
of fielders being able to throw quickly to home plate on a bunt is increased, 
and the infielders will play closer to home plate.) However, baseball has 
no equivalent of cricket's close-in fielders, because it is impractical 
to have fielders so close to the bat as they would have virtually no chance 
of latching onto a ball travelling so fast. It is possible to place a close-in 
fielder to catch a bunt, but this practice is almost never followed except 
in specialised circumstances such as a pitcher being forced to bat late 
in a game, with less than two outs and the opportunity to drive in a run. 
The team's best chance to score in such a situation may be to sacrifice 
bunt and may warrant the first or third baseman playing halfway up the 
line to cut off the run at home. In cricket, coaches cannot intervene or 
direct gameplay; the captain must make all the calls once the players are 
out on the field. However, the coach may convey messages to the captain 
or the players at any time, since there is no restriction on signalling 
or speaking to players on the field. In dynamic situations, like a run 
chase with an imminent possibility of rain, it is quite common for coaches 
to update tactics using signals. Hansie Cronje, the former cricket captain 
of South Africa, once took the field with a wireless link to the coach, 
Bob Woolmer. Subsequently, the use of gadgets to transmit messages was 
banned by the International Cricket Council. Regardless, the coach is merely 
an adviser; it is almost always the case that the cricket captain has complete 
authority over the team once play starts. In baseball, by contrast, managers 
and coaches will often direct the players (through hand signals) to carry 
out a play (such as a stolen base or hit and run), or to field at a particular 
depth. In fact, "stealing signs" can play an important part in baseball 
strategy when a player on an opposing team tries to interpret hand signals 
between pitcher and catcher or between runner and base coach, and possibly 
then relay this information to another player without being themselves 
detected. In both sports, strategy varies with the game situation. In baseball, 
pitcher, batter and fielders all play far differently in the late innings 
of a close game (e.g., waiting for walks, trying for stolen bases or the 
squeeze play to score a decisive run) than they do early, or when one team 
has already scored many more runs than the other (where batters will be 
likely to swing at many more pitches and try for extra-base hits and even 
home runs). The number, speed, and position of baserunners, which have 
no equivalent in cricket, all dramatically change the strategies used by 
pitcher and batter. A runner on first base must decide how large a lead 
to take off the base—the larger the lead, the greater the chance of advancing 
on a stolen base or batted ball, but also the greater the risk of being 
picked off by the pitcher. In leagues which do not allow designated hitters, 
strategic thinking also enters into substitutions. For example, in the 
double switch, the substitution of a relief pitcher is combined with the 
substitution of a pinch hitter who takes the pitcher's spot in the batting 
order so that the new pitcher will come to bat later (as almost all pitchers 
are poor hitters much like most specialist bowlers are poor batsmen). Since 
players may not return to the game after being substituted for, a manager 
cannot take lightly the decision when and if to substitute a better-fielding 
but worse-hitting player if his team is ahead. Another difference between 
baseball and cricket strategy is the importance of sacrifice plays in baseball. 
These are plays in which a batter deliberately hits in a particular way 
or in a particular direction to advance runner at the expense of himself 
getting out. For example, a poor batter may deliberately bunt (hit a low 
slow ball) a ball towards first base so that he will be easily put out, 
to ensure that a runner on second base will end up safe on third. A stronger 
batter may deliberately hit a long "sacrifice fly" that he knows will be 
caught (resulting in an out) so that a runner can make it home to score 
a run. This strategy results from the relative cheapness of individual 
outs in baseball and the relative importance of individual runs in that 
sport compared to cricket, where such a strategy would be foolish as runs 
cannot be scored when a wicket has fallen except in the case of a run-out 
(although if a batsman is caught and if he and the non-striker attempt 
a run and cross each other the new batsman must assume the non-striker's 
position). The essential action in baseball is either (for the offence) 
to advance runners around the bases or (for the defence) to halt that advance. 
As simple as this is in principle, in practice it generates a remarkably 
large range of strategies. Any given situation—the number of runners on 
base, the bases they occupy, their skills as runners or base-stealers, 
the count on the hitter, the number of outs, the specialties of the pitcher 
and the batter, the catcher's skill at throwing out runners, the positioning 
of fielders, which inning is being played, and so on—allows for a considerable 
variety of possible plays, on either side of the ball. At any moment, one 
manager may be calculating how to advance his runners (whether to call 
for the steal, the hit-and-run, sacrifice bunt, sacrifice fly, a double 
steal, the squeeze, and so on) while the opposing manager is calculating 
how best to thwart his opponent (not only through the pitching approach 
and positioning of fielders, but by, say, calling for a pitch-out when 
a steal is anticipated, and so on). Since the variables that determine 
which strategies are possible or advisable change from pitch to pitch, 
and according to all the varieties of play situation that may come about 
in any game, the game played between the two managers is the most intricate 
aspect of the game, and for many followers of the sport[who?] is considered 
the true 'inner game'. First-class cricket also has a number of strategic 
elements not found in baseball, simply because the maximum time duration 
of the game is fixed (which can be up to five days for Test cricket) and 
a match not completed by the end of the time duration results in a draw 
regardless of the relative score (Although, in domestic competitions a 
1st innings lead is beneficial to their final standings). By contrast, 
baseball games are played to completion regardless of the time duration 
and there is no possibility for a tie or draw (with the exception of certain 
exhibition games such as the MLB All-Star Game, or in the case of Japan, 
where games are declared ties after 12 innings[11][12]). There are no equivalents 
in baseball of, for example, deciding when to declare or whether or not 
to make your opponent follow on. The condition of the playing strip (the 
pitch) in cricket is of vital significance as, unlike baseball, the ball 
more often than not is deliberately bounced on the pitch before reaching 
the batsman. While in baseball, playing conditions between different stadia 
are much the same (except for perhaps small differences in the dimensions 
of the field, whether the outfield is fast or slow, and if the field is 
grass or artificial turf), the physical characteristics of the cricket 
pitch can vary over the course of the game, or from one field to another, 
or from one country to another. On the Indian subcontinent, for instance, 
pitches tend to be dry, dusty and soft. These pitches offer less assistance 
to fast bowlers because the ball tends to bounce slower and lower, where 
most fast bowlers rely on bounce and speed to defeat the batsman. On the 
other hand, spin bowlers prefer this surface because it gives greater traction 
to the ball and will result in the ball breaking or turning more when it 
hits the surface. When such a delivery is bowled, the ball is said to have 
"turned". Conversely, pitches in places such as Australia, England, South 
Africa or the West Indies tend to be hard, true surfaces, called "batting 
wickets" or "roads" because the ball bounces uniformly and thus batsman 
find it easier to score runs, although these wickets suit fast bowlers 
more than spinners. Accordingly, teams are generally much harder to beat 
in their own country, where both their batsmen and bowlers are presumably 
suited to the types of pitches encountered there. On any given pitch, however, 
conditions will become more suitable for spinners as time progresses as 
the pitch becomes softer and worn through use, making the spin bowler something 
of a cricketing "closer". The pitch can be cleaned of debris and rolled 
between innings, and should be mowed before each day's play at the discretion 
of the umpires. But the pitch cannot be watered once the match has started 
(unless it rains which can happen at a time when nobody can cover the pitch).[13] 
Its characteristics can therefore change during the game, and can be a 
major factor in deciding whether to bat or field first. Baseball parks 
are also not completely uniform, however many of the variations in playing 
conditions in baseball also arise in cricket. Stadiums with retractable 
roofs, for example, usually play differently with and without the roof. 
For example, with the roof open the wind will affect how far the ball carries. 
Against a running team the basepaths may be heavily watered. Many stadiums 
have idiosyncratic features – for example, the short right field and high 
left field wall (called the Green Monster) at Fenway Park, the hill and 
flagpole in the outfield (Tal's Hill) at Minute Maid Park, or numerous 
"porches" (parts of the grandstands hanging over the outfield, such as 
the "Short Porch in Right" at Yankee Stadium) which allow short home runs. 
There is an equivalent for this in cricket, where the placement of the 
pitch may render one perpendicular boundary significantly shorter than 
the other. For example, at a particular ground, the leg-side boundary may 
be 15 feet closer to the batsman than the off-side boundary. Such a boundary 
can then be targeted by batmen in search of quick runs. The baseball behaves 
differently in those stadiums with artificial turf as well. Artificial 
surfaces are harder and more uniform than grass, and the ball tends to 
roll farther and straighter, and to bounce truer and more highly on these 
fields. Teams built to play the majority of their games on this field tend 
to place a higher premium on defence (since it is more likely to get an 
infield out) and speed (since it is more important to be able to beat out 
a throw) than on power hitting.[14] The altitude of the stadium (most notably 
Coors Field) can also impact the distance a batted ball travels and the 
amount of ball movement a pitcher can generate with his deliveries, although 
recently balls have begun being placed in humidors at high-altitude parks 
to negate these effects. The amount of moisture in the dirt on the basepaths 
can also affect the behaviour of ground balls and the ease with which players 
may steal bases; some teams are known to alter the amount of watering done 
to the dirt depending on the skills of the home and visiting team. The 
amount of foul territory is also an important variable, since foul pop-ups 
that would be outs in some parks (e.g. the Oakland Coliseum) may end up 
in the stands in other parks, thereby allowing the batter to remain at 
the plate (e.g. Fenway Park and Coors Field). On the whole, though, these 
variations do not produce effects as great as variations in cricket pitches, 
with one arguable exception being Coors Field. In general, the condition 
of the pitch is a much greater factor in cricket than in baseball, while 
at the professional level stadium shape and quirks permanently built into 
the playing surface are greater factors in baseball than in cricket. Note 
that in amateur cricket pitches may have considerable variation in shape 
and may even incorporate obstacles (like tree roots), but this is not considered 
desirable or ideal. In baseball, familiarity with distinct field layout 
is considered to be an important part of having home-field advantage. The 
batting order in baseball must be declared before the game begins, and 
can only be changed if a substitution occurs. Batting out of turn is a 
rule violation resulting in a penalty. When a manager makes a substitution, 
the new player must occupy the same place in the batting order as the old 
one. To allow more complicated changes in batting order, managers may use 
the double switch, substituting for two players simultaneously. This is 
typically used to replace the pitcher but put the new pitcher in a spot 
in the batting order that will not come up to bat soon, previously occupied 
by another fielder (pitchers are almost uniformly poor hitters much like 
most specialist bowlers are poor batsmen). However, the rule remains that 
no individual player can ever change his position in the batting order 
within the same game. Unlike baseball, the batting order in cricket is 
not fixed, and can be changed at any time, provided each player bats at 
most once. This gives rise to the "pinch hitter" in cricket – a non-specialist 
batsman promoted up the order to get quick runs – and the Nightwatchman. 
This latter is typically a lower-order batsman put in to bat near the end 
of the day to avoid a better batsman having to make two cold starts, a 
particular risk. If a batsman is not ready to bat at the fall of a wicket, 
another batsman, typically the player who occupies the next spot in the 
batting order, will go out to bat in his place, to avoid the risk of the 
original batsman being timed out. The roles of individual players in the 
batting order are strikingly similar. In both sports, the players near 
the top of the batting order are considered superior batters or batsmen. 
The initial batters or batsmen generally specialise in avoiding making 
outs, while the third through fifth batters and batsmen are considered 
their team's best at providing runs. After that, the talent generally drops 
off, with the pitchers and bowlers generally being the worst at batting. 
Because outs are less important in baseball than in cricket, poorer batters 
are sometimes asked to attempt a "sacrifice" play in which they deliberately 
get themselves out in baseball to achieve a bigger team goal. This only 
occasionally happens in cricket, at the end of a limited-overs game, when 
a poorer batsman may sacrifice himself so that his partner will be on-strike 
for the next delivery. Also, since in baseball a batter who puts the ball 
in play does not get another at-bat until the entire batting order is cycled 
through, the opposing team may pitch around a skilled batter, deliberately 
walking him so that another batter comes to the plate. In cricket, a batsman 
remains at the pitch until he is out (or the team is all out, or his captain 
declares, or the set number of overs have been bowled), and the other team 
must bowl to him until he is out. The only way captains can negate the 
influence of superior batters similar to pitching around is to try to keep 
the more skilled batsman off-strike. This can be seen at the end of closely 
fought matches, where a captain might try and maximise the number of deliveries 
his bowlers can bowl at a non-specialist batsman. The exception is if the 
player is injured and has to leave the field for treatment: the next batsman 
in the order will then take his place. If the original batsman is able 
to continue later on, he can join the game again when one of his team's 
batsmen is out provided his injury time[clarification needed] has expired 
or after 5 wickets have fallen, whichever comes first provided the rest 
of the team is not bowled out before either of these situations arise. 
Baseball players use thin, round bats and wear gloves to field (with the 
catcher wearing a special, more protective glove), while cricketers use 
wide, flat bats and field barehanded (except for the wicket-keeper, who 
wears gloves and protective leg pads). Note that while baseball fielders' 
gloves do provide modest protection against impact, they are used primarily 
to extend reach and are generally not padded (except for the catcher's 
glove). In cricket a batsman wears protective gear such as pads, gloves, 
thigh pads, helmet, a chest guard, an arm pad and a box (A.K.A. a cup), 
whereas the only required protective gear for baseball batters is an unsecured 
helmet (as required in major league baseball rule 1.16); many batters also 
use elbow, shin, ankle, or hand protectors, and most wear a cup (A.K.A. 
a box) and use batting gloves (similar to golf gloves) to aid grip. Another 
difference between the two sports involves the condition of the ball as 
a match progresses. In cricket, if a ball is hit into the stands, the spectators 
must return it to the field. Also, a ball that is scuffed or scratched 
will continue in use; a ball must be used for a minimum number of overs 
(currently 80 in Test cricket and 25 in One-Day-International cricket with 
a different ball being used from each end) before it can be replaced. If 
a ball is damaged, lost, or illegally modified, it is replaced by a used 
ball of similar condition to the old one. Finally, cricketers are allowed 
sparingly to modify the ball, though this is highly restricted. The ball 
may be polished (usually on a player's uniform) without the use of an artificial 
substance, may be dried with a towel if it is wet, and may have mud removed 
from it under supervision; all other actions which alter the condition 
of the ball are illegal. In Major League Baseball (MLB), a ball that is 
hit into the stands is never returned to play and spectators are free to 
keep any balls that come into their possession (although local tradition 
may provide for a ball to be thrown back, specifically in the case of home-run 
balls hit against the Chicago Cubs when playing at Wrigley Field). Moreover, 
baseballs are replaced on a regular interval during the course of a game. 
Major League Baseball requires the home team to supply the baseballs that 
will be used during that day's games. MLB further require that the home 
team make available at least 90 new baseballs to the umpires prior to the 
start of the game. Generally, a baseball is replaced every time it either 
is hit by a batter or touches the ground. In a typical Major League Baseball 
game, baseballs are replaced every five pitches or so with a total game 
average of around 70 baseballs being used. Because baseball hitting is 
difficult, baseball rules prohibit the deliberate scratching or scuffing 
of a ball, or the application of any foreign substance that could conceivably 
affect the flight or visibility of a ball. Balls that are deliberately 
made more difficult to hit by applying foreign substances are often known 
as spitballs, regardless of the specific substance applied (such as Vaseline). 
Both spitballs and those that become scuffed or scratched through normal 
game play are immediately removed from play and never reused. The current 
rules regarding the condition of baseballs did not come into effect until 
1920, after the death of Ray Chapman from being hit with a Carl Mays spitball. 
Before that point, the rules were similar to those still present in cricket. 
However, the new rules were not consistently enforced for several decades 
afterwards, and several pitchers (most notably Gaylord Perry) built careers 
around skirting these rules, doing such things as hiding nail files in 
their gloves or putting Vaseline on the underside of the peaks of their 
caps. In modern baseball, however, the prohibition against modifying the 
baseball in almost any way is strictly enforced and players found to be 
in violation of this rule are not only ejected from the game in which the 
infraction occurred, but are also subject to a suspension. The only substance 
applied to a baseball is the Delaware River mud formula that umpires rub 
in before a game to remove the "shine" from the ball and improve its grip. 
The pitcher is also allowed to use rosin on his hands (via a rosin bag) 
to improve his grip, and to blow on his hands in cold weather. Both games 
have a long history of using a vast array of statistics. The scorers are 
directed by the hand signals of an umpire. Every play or delivery is logged, 
and from the log, or scoresheet, is derived a summary report. Baseball 
commonly uses times at bat, base hits, RBIs, stolen bases, errors, strikeouts 
and other occurrences. These are then often used to rate the player. In 
cricket, commonly used individual player statistics for batsman include 
batting average, strike rate (mainly used in limited overs cricket), and 
number of 50 and 100 run scores made during an innings. For bowlers, bowling 
average, economy rate (most relevant to limited overs cricket) and number 
of five wicket hauls are commonly cited. Although cricket uses detailed 
statistics as a guide, owing to the variety of situations in cricket, they 
are not always considered a true reflection of the player. Ian Botham is 
an example of a player who, despite relatively poor averages, was particularly 
noted as one of England's greatest cricketers for his ability to dominate 
games.[15] Henry Chadwick (1824–1908) was an English-born American sportswriter, 
pioneer baseball statistician and historian, often called the "father of 
baseball". Before he first came across organised baseball in 1856, he was 
a cricket reporter for The New York Times and player of cricket and similar 
ball games such as rounders. In baseball, questioning of the validity and 
utility of conventional baseball statistics has led to the creation of 
the field of sabermetrics, which assesses alternatives to conventional 
statistics. Conclusions are sometimes drawn from inadequate samples – for 
example, an assertion that a batter has done poorly against a specific 
pitcher, when they have only faced each other a handful of times, or that 
a player is "clutch" due to having more success with runners in scoring 
position or during the late innings with rather small sample sizes. Both 
sports play an important part in the cultures of the societies in which 
they are popular. Baseball is deeply ingrained in the American psyche, 
and is known in the United States as "the national pastime". It is one 
of the sports most readily identified with the United States. Baseball 
references abound in American English, and the sport is well represented 
in American cinema in numerous baseball movies. Baseball also plays an 
important cultural role in many parts of Latin America, (specifically Cuba, 
Dominican Republic, Mexico, Puerto Rico and Venezuela), as well as in East 
Asia. Many terms and expressions from the sport have entered the English 
lexicon. Examples are "getting to first base," "out of left field", "having 
two strikes against him/her", "swinging for the fences", "he struck out", 
"that's a home run", and "southpaw" (baseball diamonds are traditionally 
built with home plate to the west so hitters do not have to fight the setting 
sun as well as the pitch, a pitcher's left arm is always to the south). 
Cricket has an equally strong influence on the culture of many nations, 
mainly Commonwealth nations, including England, Australia, New Zealand, 
South Africa, Kenya, Zimbabwe, the English-speaking Caribbean and especially 
in the Indian-subcontinent where it is often said to be followed like a 
religion. Canada has seen a marked increase in domestic, as well as interest 
in international cricket, over the past decade. This can be attributed, 
in large part, to the growing subcontinental diaspora in Canada. Cricket 
is the most popular sport or a major sport in most former British Colonies. 
Like baseball, cricket has had an influence on the lexicon of these nations 
with such phrases as "that's not cricket" (unfair), "had a good innings", 
"sticky wicket", "hitting for six", "played with a straight bat" and "bowled 
over". The ten Test-playing nations regularly participate in tours of other 
nations to play usually both a Test and One Day International series. Twenty20 
is becoming more popular in international competition. The amateur game 
has also been spread further afield by expatriates from the Test-playing 
nations. Many of these minor cricketing nations (including the USA and 
Canada and other nations, such as the Netherlands, which do not have a 
British heritage) compete to qualify for the Cricket World Cup. The very 
first international cricket match was played between the USA and Canada 
in 1844.[16][17] Baseball in a similar way has also been spread around 
the world, most notably in Central America and East Asia. Canadian baseball 
developed as a minor league sport in parallel to the US major leagues before 
eventually joining them, first with the Montreal Expos in 1969 (now the 
Washington Nationals) and then with the Toronto Blue Jays in 1977. Serious 
domestic leagues are found in many nations including Japan, South Korea, 
Cuba, Venezuela, Mexico, and the Dominican Republic, and players routinely 
move across countries to join professional baseball teams. However, baseball 
does not have a robust tradition of national teams or professional international 
competition, although this is slowly becoming more popular around the world 
with the emergence of competitions like the World Baseball Classic. Interestingly, 
there have been several Australian Major League Baseball players, a country 
where cricket is more popular by far. The nature of the top elite level 
in both sports differs markedly. Nearly all cricket revenue comes from 
international matches,[citation needed] and domestic leagues serve largely 
as a development ground for international players. By contrast nearly all 
baseball revenue comes from domestic leagues, most notably in the United 
States and Japan.[citation needed] Cricket's international programme allows 
the weaker cricketing nations to play against the best in the world, and 
the players have the chance to become national heroes. On the other hand, 
the dominance of national teams also means that a great many talented cricketers 
in nations such as Australia and India will never receive recognition or 
prestige unless they make it into the national team.[citation needed] Standards 
of sportsmanship differ. In cricket, the standard of sportsmanship has 
historically been considered so high that the phrase "It's just not cricket" 
was coined in the 19th century to describe unfair or underhand behaviour 
in any walk of life. In the last few decades though, top-level cricket 
has become increasingly fast-paced and competitive, increasing the use 
of appealing and sledging, although players are still expected to abide 
by the umpires' rulings without argument, and for the most part they do. 
Even in the modern game fielders are known to signal to the umpire that 
a boundary was hit, despite what could have been a spectacular save (though 
they may well be found out by the TV umpire anyway) and also signal if 
they did not take a catch even if it appeared that they did. In addition, 
many cricket batsmen "walk" when they think they are out, even if the umpire 
does not declare them out. This is considered a very high level of sportsmanship, 
as a batsman might easily take advantage of incorrect umpiring decisions; 
but with the introduction of the decision review system this has become 
more difficult (in games when the system is in use). The "Spirit of Cricket" 
was added as a preamble to the Laws in 2000, declaring that "Cricket is 
a game that owes much of its unique appeal to the fact that it should be 
played not only within its Laws but also within the Spirit of the Game. 
Any action which is seen to abuse this Spirit causes injury to the game 
itself".[18][19] In baseball, a player correcting an umpire's call to his 
own team's detriment is unheard of, at least at the professional level. 
Individual responsibility and vigilance are part of the game's tradition. 
It is the umpire's responsibility to make the right call, and matters of 
judgment are final. Similarly, when a runner misses a base or leaves too 
early on a caught fly ball, the umpire keeps silent, as it is the fielder's 
responsibility to know where the runners are and to make an appeal. When 
a fielder pretends not to know where the ball is (the "hidden ball trick"), 
the umpire keeps silent, as it is the runner's responsibility to know where 
the ball is. In baseball, celebrating an out, stealing bases when well 
ahead, or smiling on the field when well ahead are considered serious breaches 
of sportsmanship. Possibly the most serious breach of sportsmanship is 
the pitcher's throwing behind the batter, since batters often react to 
