A concession stand (American English), snack kiosk or snack bar (British 
English, Irish English) is a place where patrons can purchase snacks or 
food at a cinema, amusement park, fair, stadium, or other entertainment 
venue. Some events or venues contract out the right to sell food to third 
parties. Those contracts are often referred to as a concession — hence 
the name for a stand where food is sold. Usually prices for goods at concession 
stands are greater than elsewhere for the convenience of being close to 
an attraction, with outside food and drink being prohibited, and they often 
contribute significant revenue to the venue operator (especially in the 
case of movie theatres). Concession stands were not originally operated 
by the movie theaters, and food was often sold by people attending the 
film or by vendors outside of the theater.[1] Movie theaters were at first 
hostile to food in their facilities, but during the Great Depression, theaters 
added concession stands as a way to increase revenue in the economically 
stagnant times.[1] By the 1930s, concession stands were a main fixture 
in many theaters.[1] During World War II, candy was scarce at concession 
stands because of the sugar rationing going on at the time, and popcorn 
became more popular than before.[1] In the late 1940s, and early 1950s, 
as movie ticket sales were down, sales of food at concession stands increased.[1] 
In the US concession owners are represented by the National Association 
of Concessionaires[2] and the National Independent Concessionaires Association.[3] 
Concession stands typically sell junk food. The most basic concessions 
at movie theaters include candy, popcorn and soft drinks. Larger concession 
facilities in stadiums, amusement parks and newer movie theatres have enabled 
the sale of a limited selection of fast food, including grilling stations 
and hotplates to prepare hot foods (hamburgers, french fries, pizza, hot 
dogs, corn dogs, nachos, pretzels, and churros), and freezers to store 
cold desserts (snow cones and ice cream). Stadiums for sports and rock 
concerts sell beer and other mild alcoholic beverages, usually in plastic 
disposable cups since glass bottles could be used as projectiles by unruly 
spectators. Formal entertainment venues such as symphony concert halls 
and opera houses often eschew fast food and junk food for more upscale 
fare, including wine, coffee and tea, baked desserts, and pastries. Although 
the above are the most popular common staples at concession stands, there 
are often region-specific variations. For instance, Citizens Bank Park 
has Philadelphia-style food stands, including several which serve cheesesteaks, 
hoagies, and other regional specialties. Busch Stadium includes standard 
ballpark fare like bratwurst, nachos and peanuts, but also has St. Louis-area 
favorites such as pork steak sandwiches and toasted ravioli; uniquely Busch 
Stadium also allows outside food and drink (including soft-sided drink 
coolers). Many newer arenas now include multiple concession stands that 
essentially form a food court, serving a variety of fast food. At temporary 
outdoor events such as fairs, food trucks may operate as concession stands. 
Club seating and luxury boxes have exclusive access to restaurants, cafés, 
bars, and catering not available to regular ticketholders. Concessions 
are often contracted out to third parties. Legends Hospitality Management 
LLC (Yankee Stadium and Cowboys Stadium) and Delaware North (TD Garden 
and Emirates Stadium) are companies that specialize in stadium catering. 
Alternatively, concession stands can be operated by fast food chains such 
as McDonalds, Pizza Pizza, or Tim Hortons. A concession stand by the name 
of "Flora-Dew" at Hanlan's Point in Toronto, Ontario. The image was taken 
in 1928 and depicts a typical stand from that time period. The concession 
stand at Hillsboro Stadium, in Hillsboro, Oregon, is an outdoor stand at 
a football field. At Heinz Field, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, the "Goal 
Line Stand" incorporates sports and food into their concession stand. A 
