Coney Island is a peninsular residential neighborhood, beach, and leisure/entertainment 
destination on the Coney Island Channel, which is part of the Lower Bay 
in the southwestern part of the borough of Brooklyn, New York City. The 
site was formerly an outer barrier island but became partially connected 
to the rest of Long Island by land fill. The residential portion of the 
peninsula is a community of 60,000 people in its western part, with Sea 
Gate to its west, Brighton Beach and Manhattan Beach to its east, the Lower 
Bay to the south, and Gravesend to the north. Coney Island is well known 
as the site of amusement parks and a seaside resort. The attractions reached 
a historical peak during the first half of the 20th century, declining 
in popularity after World War II and years of neglect. In recent years, 
the area has seen the opening of MCU Park stadium and has become home to 
the Brooklyn Cyclones minor league baseball team, as well as the opening 
of a new amusement park among several adjacent ones. Coney Island is the 
westernmost part of the barrier islands of Long Island, and is about 4 
miles (6.4 km) long and 0.5 miles (0.80 km) wide lying between Sheepshead 
Bay to the east and Lower New York Bay to the west. It was formerly an 
island that was separated from the main part of Brooklyn by Coney Island 
Creek, a partial tidal mudflats, but it has since been developed into a 
peninsula. There were plans early in the 20th century to dredge and straighten 
the creek as a ship canal, but they were abandoned, and the center of the 
creek was filled in completely to allow construction of the Belt Parkway 
before World War II, and it was filled in again in 1962 with the construction 
of the Verrazano–Narrows Bridge.[1] The western and eastern ends of the 
island are now peninsulas. The original Native American inhabitants of 
the region were the Lenape, who called the island Narrioch. This name has 
been attributed the meaning of "land without shadows"[2] or "always in 
light"[3] describing how its south facing beaches always remained in sunlight. 
A second meaning attributed to Narrioch is "point" or "corner of land".[4] 
The Dutch established the colony of Nieuw Amsterdam in that area in the 
early 17th century. The Native American population in the area dwindled 
as the Dutch settlement grew and the entire southwest section of what was 
to become Brooklyn was purchased from an elder in 1645 for a gun, a blanket 
and a kettle.[5][6] There is no clear historical consensus on how the island 
got the name "Coney Island".[7] A Robert Morden map from 1690 has the label 
"Conney Iſle"[8] and the name appears on an 1733 map ("Coney Iſland")[9] 
and an 1811 map ("Coney I").[10] The most popular theory is the name came 
from the old spelling of the Dutch word for rabbit, "conyn", derived from 
a purported large population of wild rabbits, giving it the name "Conyne 
Eylandt" ("Rabbits Island"),[11][12] with the name being anglicized to 
"Coney Island" after the English took over the colony in 1664, "coney" 
being the English version of the word rabbit. Other origins of the name 
include that it came from the name of the native american tribe, the Konoh, 
who supposedly once inhabited it, or the name "Conyn" which appears in 
a 1816 work on New York place names, believed to be the surname of a family 
of Dutch settlers who lived there.[7] Some of the alternative theories 
on how the island got its name include the Irish Gaelic name for rabbit 
which is Coinín, which is also anglicized to Coney. Ireland has many islands 
named Coney Island, all of which predate this one. Another theory has an 
Irish captain named Peter O'Connor naming Coney Island in the 18th century, 
after an island in Sligo Bay known as both Coney Island and Inishmulclohy. 
Another purported origin is that the island is named after Henry Hudson's 
right-hand-man, John Coleman, supposed to have been slain by Indians.[7] 
Development on Coney Island has always been controversial. When the first 
structures were built around the 1840s, there was an outcry to prevent 
any development on the island and preserve it as a natural park. Starting 
in the early 1900s, the City of New York made efforts to condemn all buildings 
and piers built south of Surf Avenue. It was an effort to reclaim the beach 
which by then had almost completely been built over with bath houses, clam 
bars, amusements, and other structures. The local amusement community opposed 
the city. Eventually a settlement was reached where the beach did not begin 
until 1,000 feet (300 m) south of Surf Avenue, the territory marked by 
a city-owned boardwalk, while the city would demolish any structures that 
had been built over public streets, to reclaim beach access. Coney Island 
started to become a resort area after the Coney Island Hotel was finished 
in 1829.[13] Due to Coney Island's proximity to Manhattan and other boroughs, 
and its simultaneous relative distance from the city of Brooklyn to provide 
the illusion of a proper vacation, it began attracting vacationers in the 
1830s and 1840s, assisted by carriage roads and steamship service that 
reduced travel time from a formerly half-day journey to two hours.[14]:15 
Most of the vacationers were wealthy and went by carriage. Inventor Samuel 
Colt built an observation tower on the peninsula in 1845, but he abandoned 
the project soon after.[13] In 1847, the middle class started going to 
Coney Island upon the introduction of a ferry line to Norton's Point—named 
after hotel owner Michael Norton—at the western portion of the peninsula. 
Gang activity started as well, with one 1870s writer noting that going 
to Coney Island could result in losing money and even lives.[13] In 1868, 
William A. Engeman built a resort in the area.[15] The resort was given 
the name "Brighton Beach" in 1878 by Henry C. Murphy and a group of businessmen, 
who chose to name as an allusion to the English resort city of Brighton.[16] 
With the help of Gravesend’s surveyor William Stillwell, Engeman acquired 
all 39 lots for $20,000, a "bargain price."[17] This 460-by-210-foot (140 
by 64 m) hotel, with rooms for up to 5,000 people nightly and meals for 
up to 20,000 people daily, was close to the then-rundown western Coney 
Island, so it was mostly the upper middle class that went to this hotel. 
The 400-foot (120 m), double-decker Brighton Beach Pavilion was also built 
nearby.[17] "Hotel Brighton" (or Brighton Beach Hotel) was situated on 
the beach at what is now the foot of Coney Island Avenue,[15] and was accessed 
by the Brooklyn, Flatbush, and Coney Island Railway (the present-day BMT 
Brighton Line), which opened on July 2, 1878.[18] Simultaneously, wealthy 
banker August Corbin was developing adjacent Manhattan Beach after being 
interested in the area during a trip to the beach to heal his sick son.[15][19] 
Corbin, who worked on Wall Street and had many railroad investments, built 
the New York and Manhattan Beach Railway for his two luxury shoreline hotels. 
These hotels were used by the wealthy upper class, who would not go to 
Brighton Beach because of its proximity to Coney Island.[15] The J. Pickering 
Putnam-designed, 150-room Manhattan Beach Hotel, with restaurants, ballrooms, 
and shops, was open for business by 1877 at a ceremony presided over by 
Ulysses S. Grant.[19] In 1880, the similarly prodigal Oriental Hotel, which 
hosted rooms for wealthy families staying for extended periods, opened.[19] 
Andrew R. Culver, president of the Prospect Park and Coney Island Railroad 
(the present-day IND Culver Line)[20] had built a steam railway, the Culver 
Line, before Corbin and Engeman had even built their railroads. For 35 
cents, one could ride the Prospect Park & Coney Island Railroad to the 
Surf Avenue terminal.[15] Across the street from the terminal, the 300-foot 
(91 m) Iron Tower, bought from the 1876 Philadelphia Exposition, provided 
patrons with a bird's-eye view of the coast. The nearby "Camera Obscura" 
similarly used mirrors and lens to provide a panoramic view of the area.[15] 
Coney Island became a major resort destination after the Civil War as excursion 
railroads and the Coney Island & Brooklyn Railroad streetcar line reached 
the area in the 1860s, and the Iron steamboat company in 1881. The 150-suite 
Cable Hotel was built nearby in 1875.[18] Next to it, on a 12-acre (4.9 ha) 
piece of land leased by James Voorhies, maitre d' Paul Bauer built the 
western peninsula's largest hotel, which opened in 1876.[15] By the turn 
of the century, Victorian hotels, private bathhouses, and vaudeville theaters 
were a common sight on Coney island. [21]:147 Between about 1880 and World 
War II, Coney Island was the largest amusement area in the United States, 
attracting several million visitors per year. At its height, it contained 
three competing major amusement parks, Luna Park, Dreamland, and Steeplechase 
Park, as well as many independent amusements.[21]:147–150 The area was 
also the center of new technological events, with electric lights, roller 
coasters, and baby incubators among the innovations at Coney Island in 
the 1900s. This continued through the end of World War II, with world's 
fair-style structures such as the Parachute Jump and Wonder Wheel.[21]:147 
Charles I. D. Looff, a Danish woodcarver, built the first carousel and 
amusement ride at Coney Island in 1876.[22] It was installed at Vandeveer's 
bath-house complex at West 6th Street and Surf Avenue. The complex was 
later called Balmer's Pavilion. The carousel consisted of hand-carved horses 
and animals standing two abreast. Two musicians, a drummer and a flute 
player, provided the music. A metal ring-arm hung on a pole outside the 
ride, feeding small, iron rings for eager riders to grab. A tent-top protected 
the riders from the weather. The fare was five cents. From 1885 to 1896, 
the Elephantine Colossus, a seven story building (including a brothel) 
in the shape of an elephant, was the first sight to greet immigrants arriving 
in New York, who would see it before they saw the Statue of Liberty.[citation 
needed] The Coney Island "Funny Face" logo, which is still extant, dates 
100 years to the early days of George C. Tilyou's Steeplechase Park.[23] 
When the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company electrified the steam railroads 
and connected Brooklyn to Manhattan via the Brooklyn Bridge at the beginning 
of the 20th century, Coney Island turned rapidly from a resort to an accessible 
location for day-trippers seeking to escape the summer heat in New York 
City's tenements.[18][24] In 1915, the Sea Beach Line was upgraded to a 
subway line, followed by the other former excursion roads, and the opening 
of the New West End Terminal in 1919 ushered in Coney Island's busiest 
era.[18][24] Since the 1920s, all property north of the boardwalk and south 
of Surf Avenue was zoned for amusement and recreational use only, with 
some large lots of property north of Surf also zoned for amusements only. 
In 1944, Luna Park was damaged by fire, and sold to a company who announced 
they were going to tear down what was left of Luna Park and build apartments. 
Robert Moses had the land rezoned for residential use with the proviso 
that the apartment complex include low-income housing. After World War 
II, contraction began seriously from a series of pressures. Air conditioning 
in movie theaters and then in homes, along with the advent of automobiles, 
which provided access to the less crowded and more appealing Long Island 
state parks, especially Jones Beach, lessened the attractions of Coney's 
beaches. Luna Park closed in 1946 after a series of fires and the street 
gang problems of the 1950s spilled into Coney Island. The presence of threatening 
youths did not impact the beachgoing but discouraged visitors to the rides 
and concessions, staples of the Coney Island economy. The local economy 
was particularly impacted by the 1964 closing of Steeplechase Park. In 
1949, Moses moved the boardwalk back from the beach several yards, demolishing 
many structures, including the city's municipal bath house. He would later 
demolish several blocks of amusements[21]:149 to clear land for both the 
New York Aquarium[25]:687 and the Abe Stark Rink.[26]:56 Critics complained 
that Moses took three times more land than each structure needed, surrounding 
each with vacant lots that were of no use to the city. Four years later, 
Moses had the entire peninsula rezoned for residential use only and announced 
plans to demolish the amusements to make room for public housing. After 
many public complaints, the Estimate Board reinstated the area between 
West 22nd Street and The Cyclone as amusement only and threw in 100 feet 
(30 m) of property north of Surf Av. between these streets. It has since 
then been protected for amusement use only, which has led to many public 
land battles. In 1964, Coney Island's last remaining large theme park, 
Steeplechase Park, closed. The rides were auctioned off, and the property 
was sold to developer Fred Trump, the father of Donald Trump. Trump, convinced 
that the amusement area would die off once the large theme parks were gone, 
wanted to build luxury apartments on the old Steeplechase property. He 
spent ten years battling in court to get the property rezoned. At one point 
Trump organized a funeral for amusement parks in Coney Island. Trump invited 
the press to the funeral where bikini-clad girls first handed out hot dogs, 
then handed out stones which Fred invited all to cast through the stained-glass 
windows of the pavilion. Then, pronouncing the amusement park dead, he 
had the pavilion bulldozed. After a decade of court battles, Trump exhausted 
all his legal options and the property was still zoned only for amusements. 
He eventually leased the property to Norman Kaufman, who ran a small collection 
of fairground amusements on a corner of the site, calling his amusement 
park "Steeplechase Park". Between the loss of both Luna Park and the original 
Steeplechase Park, as well as an urban-renewal plan that took place in 
the surrounding neighborhood where middle class houses were replaced with 
housing projects, fewer people visited Coney Island. With attendance dropping, 
many amusement owners abandoned their properties. In the late 1970s, the 
city came up with a plan to revitalize Coney Island by bringing in gambling 
casinos, as had been done in Atlantic City. The city's plans backfired 
when the prospect of selling property to rich casino owners created a land 
boom where property was bought up and the rides cleared in preparation 
of reselling to developers. Gambling was never legalized for Coney, and 
the area ended up with vacant lots. By the 1970s, the area was in dispute. 
The city was considering demolishing the Cyclone in favor of an extension 
of the adjacent New York Aquarium.[21]:153 In 1979, the city purchased 
Steeplechase Park from Fred Trump and proceeded to evict Norman Kaufman's 
amusements. By this time, Kaufman had expanded his park and had plans to 
eventually rebuild the historic Steeplechase Park. He had even bought back 
the original Steeplechase horse ride with plans to install it the following 
season. But the city decided it did not want to wait decades for Steeplechase 
park to be rebuilt and believed it could attract a developer to build a 
large combination theme park and casino on the site. The property remained 
vacant for another five years. In the mid-1980s, businessman Horace Bullard 
approached the city to allow him to rebuild Steeplechase Park. He had already 
bought several acres of property just east of the Steeplechase Park site, 
including the property with a large coaster called Thunderbolt and property 
west of Abe Stark rink.[21]:150 His plans called for the combination of 
his property as well as the Steeplechase property and the unused property 
on the Abe Stark site as a multimillion-dollar theme park based on the 
original. The city agreed, and it and the state legislature approved the 
project in 1986.[21]:150 However, several bureaucrats held up the project 
for another two years while the NYC Planning Commission compiled an environmental 
impact report. In 1987, state senator Thomas Bartosiewics attempted to 
block Bullard from building on the Steeplechase site. Bartosiewics was 
part of a group called The Brooklyn Sports Foundation which had promised 
another theme park developer, Sportsplex, the right to build on the site. 
Construction was held up for another four years as Bullard and Sportsplex 
fought over the site.[citation needed] In 1994, after Rudy Giuliani took 
office as mayor of New York, he negated the Bullard deal by building a 
baseball stadium on the site allotted for Steeplechase Park.[21]:150 Giuliani 
stated that he wanted to build Sportsplex, provided that it included a 
stadium for a minor-league team owned by the Mets; however, when Giuliani 
ordered the stadium to be built first, Sportsplex accused the city of planning 
to build a parking lot on the property earmarked for the Sportsplex construction. 
Giuliani publicly denied this and promised Sportsplex could begin construction 
the moment the stadium was finished.[citation needed] By doing this, Giuliani 
wanted to improve sports facilities in the area, as well as found a professional 
baseball team in Brooklyn (which had not hosted such a team since 1957, 
when the Brooklyn Dodgers—now the Los Angeles Dodgers—moved to Los Angeles).[28] 
As soon as the stadium was completed, Giuliani nullified the Sportsplex 
deal and had the parking lot built, angering many in the community.[29] 
The Mets decided the minor league team would be called the Brooklyn Cyclones 
and sold the naming rights to the stadium to Keyspan Energy. Executives 
from Keyspan complained that the stadium's line of view from the rest of 
Coney Island amusement area was blocked by the now derelict Thunderbolt 
coaster and considered not going through with the deal.[citation needed] 
Bullard, now no longer rebuilding Steeplechase Park, had wanted to restore 
the Thunderbolt as part of a scaled-down amusement park. The following 
month in "an early-morning raid" on the site, Giuliani, who stated that 
the Thunderbolt was about to collapse, had the coaster demolished; however, 
full destruction of the supposedly structurally unstable coaster took weeks.[21]:150 
No connection between the Mets organization and the demolition has ever 
been proven, but Giuliani was later accused of tearing it down at the Mets' 
request.[citation needed] In 2003, Mayor Michael Bloomberg took an interest 
in revitalizing Coney Island as a possible site for the New York City bid 
of the 2012 Summer Olympics. A plan was developed by the Astella Development 
Corporation. When the city lost the bid for the Olympics, revitalization 
plans were passed on to the Coney Island Development Corporation (CIDC), 
which came up with a plan to restore the resort. Many amusement owners 
worried that because one of the report's goals to develop the area as a 
year-round destination, they could be forced out as their businesses are 
only seasonal and did not meet the CIDC's year-round goal. The CIDC also 
suggested that property north of Surf Avenue and west of Abe Stark should 
be rezoned for other uses including residential to lure developers into 
the area.[citation needed] Shortly before the CIDC's plans were publicly 
released, a development company, Thor Equities, purchased all of Bullard's 
168,000-square-foot (15,600 m2) western property, worth $2.2 million, for 
$13 million. In less than a year, Thor flipped the property to Taconic 
Investment Partners for over $90 million.[21]:158 Taconic now had 100 acres 
(40 ha), on which it planned to build 2,000 apartment units.[21]:158–159[30] 
Thor then went about using much of its $77 million profit to purchase property 
well over market value lining Stillwell Avenue and offered to buy out every 
piece of property inside the traditional amusement area. Quickly, rumors 
started that Thor was interested in building a retail mall in the heart 
of the amusement area.[21]:158–159 In September 2005, Thor's founder, Joe 
Sitt, went public with his new plans, which he claimed was going to be 
a large Bellagio-style hotel resort surrounded by rides and amusements. 
Alternatively, there would also be "high-rise luxury condominiums" or a 
Las Vegas Strip-style casino resort area.[21]:159 He also claimed that 
the interior of the resort would have an indoor mall that would allow local 
amusement owners to relocate their rides and operate them indoors year 
round and made promises that he had no intention of driving out any local 
amusement owners and wanted them all to be part of his new resort. Sitt 
released renderings of a hotel that would take up the entire amusement 
area from the Aquarium to beyond Keyspan Park and would most likely need 
to involve the demolition of The Wonder Wheel, Cyclone, and Nathan's original 
hot dog stand, as well as the new Keyspan Park.[21]:159 At the same time, 
Brooklyn was involved with two other major development projects: the Pacific 
Park project, which involved eminent domain, and the Brooklyn Bridge Park 
project, which involved the demolition of a building with landmark status. 
Many feared that the city had already backed Thor's plans and that the 
entire amusement district would be demolished to make way for the new multimillion-dollar 
resort; in addition, Thor Equities had acquired infamy for convincing the 
city to rezone property, then flipping it for large prices.[30] Astroland 
owner Carol Hill Albert, whose husband's family had owned the park since 
1962, sold the site to developer Thor Equities in November 2006 for an 
undisclosed amount. In June 2006 Ehrenkrantz Eckstut & Kuhn (EEK), an architectural 
design firm working for Thor, released detailed renderings of Thor's planned 
resort area showing luxury high rise condo towers in place of the hotel 
with retail on the ground floor. Since the area has both zoning restrictions 
only allowing amusements and no buildings taller than 260 feet (79 m). 
Thor initially denied any inclusion of condo towers in its plans and Eek 
quickly removed the renderings from its site, but not before blogs everywhere 
published copies of the renderings. Thor quickly released renderings of 
rides, including a steel coaster that would run above the boardwalk, a 
two tiered carousel, and a fountain at the foot of Stillwell Av. that would 
project images of whales and mermaids. Thor admitted that condos would 
be part of its resort and said that the resort was not economically feasible 
without the addition of condos. At a public meeting Thor representatives 
continued to downplay the condos by claiming that the company only wanted 
to build hundreds of condo units, not thousands. While Thor initially said 
it only wanted to build 575 condos the number crept up to 975. Late in 
2006 Thor announced that it had just purchased Coney Island's last remaining 
amusement park, Astroland, and would be closing it after the 2007 season. 
Immediately Thor announced plans to build a Nickelodeon-themed hotel on 
the site. In January 2007, Thor released renderings for a new amusement 
park to be built on the Astroland site called Coney Island Park.[31] Critics 
pointed out that even though Thor claimed its project would expand the 
amusement area, the company had already evicted several acres of amusements 
from the property it bought and planned to evict the rest of the amusements 
on the property after the 2007 season, as well as close Astroland. Meanwhile, 
the city brought up its own concerns about Thor's plans based on history 
with the developer. In 2001 Thor purchased the Albee Square Mall for $25 
million claiming it wanted to revitalize it. Thor said it wanted to give 
the mall a Vegas-style makeover and bring in more name brand retail while 
maintaining the original vendors occupying the mall. The city complied 
and rezoned the property to permit the building of an office tower above 
the mall. Soon after, Thor sold the property to Arcadia Reality Trust for 
$125 million. Arcadia plans to demolish the mall and build the tower only 
with a possible box store on the ground level. City officials questioned 
Thor's motives for wanting the zoning changes inside the amusement zone 
and feared that once Thor gets those changes, it will flip the property 
to the highest bidder who will have no obligation to build any amusements. 
In the winter of 2007, Thor began to evict businesses from the buildings 
it owned along the boardwalk. But when one of the business owners went 
to the press with a statement that Thor was requiring its tenants to sign 
a confidentiality clause that lasted three years and prevented them from 
publicly commenting on Thor redeveloping the area, Thor quickly reinstated 
their leases. Thor proposed a $1.5 billion renovation and expansion of 
the Coney Island amusement area to include hotels, shopping, movies, an 
indoor water park and the city's first new roller coaster since the Cyclone. 
The Municipal Art Society launched the initiative ImagineConey,[32] in 
early 2007, as discussion of a rezoning plan that highly favored housing 
and hotels began circulating from the Department of City Planning.[33] 
MAS held several public workshops, a call for ideas, and a charrette to 
garner attention to the issue. Astroland, which had served as a major amusement 
park since 1962, closed in 2008[34] and was replaced by a new incarnation 
of Dreamland in 2009 and of Luna Park in 2010. City Planning certified 
the rezoning plan in January 2009 to negative responses from all amusement 
advocates and Coney Island enthusiasts. In 2012 the plan was working through 
the ULURP process.[35] Thor Equities said it hoped to complete the project 
by 2011.[36] Thor Equities plan to demolish most of the iconic, early 20th-century 
buildings along Surf Avenue. In their place, Sitt plans to build cheap, 
one-story retail, and his recently released rendering clearly shows Burger 
King and Taco Bell-like buildings.[37] The Aquarium is also planning a 
renovation.[38] In June 2009, the city's planning commission unanimously 
approved the construction of 4,500 units of housing and 900 affordable 
units and vowed to "preserve, in perpetuity, the open amusement area rides 
that everyone knows and loves," while protesters argued that "20 percent 
affordable-housing component is unreasonably low."[39] Besides Luna Park, 
the remaining parks and attractions include Deno's Wonder Wheel Amusement 
Park, 12th Street Amusements, and Kiddie Park, while the Eldorado Arcade 
has an indoor bumper car ride. The Zipper and Spider on 12th Street were 
closed permanently on September 4, 2007, and dismantling began after its 
owner lost his lease. They are to be reassembled at an amusement park in 
Honduras.[40] On April 20, 2011, the first new roller coasters to be built 
at Coney Island in eighty years were opened as part of efforts to reverse 
the decline of the amusement area.[41] In 2012, Hurricane Sandy caused 
major damage to the Coney Island amusement parks, the Aquarium, and businesses. 
Nathan's, however, reported that the Nathan's Hot Dog Eating Contest would 
be held the following summer, as usual.[42] Luna Park at Coney Island reopened 
on March 24, 2013.[43] Rebuilding of the Aquarium started in early 2013 
and is expected to finish in 2017. Currently, Coney Island has two amusement 
parks — Luna Park and Deno's Wonder Wheel Amusement Park — as well as several 
rides that are not incorporated into either theme park. Coney Island also 
has several other visitor attractions and hosts renowned events as well. 
Coney Island's amusement area is one of a few in the United States that 
is not mostly owned by any one entity.[21]:153 The current amusement park 
contains various rides, games such as skeeball and ball tossing, and a 
sideshow, including games of shooting, throwing, and tossing skills. The 
rides and other amusements at Coney Island are owned and managed by several 
different companies and operate independently of each other. It is not 
possible to purchase season tickets to the attractions in the area. Three 
rides at Coney Island are protected as designated New York City landmarks 
and are listed in the National Register of Historic Places. These three 
rides are: Other notable, currently operating attractions include: Former 
rides include: Coney Island maintains a broad sandy beach from West 37th 
Street at Sea Gate, through the central Coney Island area and Brighton 
Beach, to the beginning of the community of Manhattan Beach, a distance 
of approximately 2.5 mi (4.0 km). The beach is continuous and is served 
for its entire length by the broad Riegelmann Boardwalk. A number of amusements 
are directly accessible from the land-side of the boardwalk, as is the 
aquarium and a variety of food shops and arcades. The beach is groomed 
and replenished on a regular basis by the city. The position of the beach 
and lack of significant obstructions means virtually the entire beach is 
in sunlight all day. The beach is open to all without restriction, and 
there is no charge for use. The beach area is divided into "bays", areas 
of beach delineated by rock jetties, which moderate erosion and the force 
of ocean waves.[citation needed] The Coney Island Polar Bear Club consists 
of a group of people who swim at Coney Island throughout the winter months, 
most notably on New Year's Day, when additional participants join them 
to swim in the frigid waters. The beach serves as the training grounds 
for the Coney Island Brighton Beach Open Water Swimmers (CIBBOWS),[66] 
a group dedicated to promoting open water swimming for individuals of all 
levels. CIBBOWS hosts several open water swim races each year, such as 
Grimaldo's Mile and the New York Aquarium 5k, as well as regular weekend 
training swims.[66] Nearby, the New York Aquarium, which opened in 1957 
on the former site of the Dreamland amusement park, is another attraction 
on Coney Island. In 2001, KeySpan Park opened on the former site of Steeplechase 
Park to host the Brooklyn Cyclones minor league baseball team. The Coney 
Island Mermaid Parade takes place on Surf Avenue and the boardwalk, and 
features floats and various acts. It has been produced annually by Coney 
Island USA, a non-profit arts organization established in 1979, dedicated 
to preserving the dignity of American popular culture. Coney Island USA 
has also sponsored the Coney Island Film Festival every October since 2000, 
as well as Burlesque At The Beach, and Creepshow at the Freakshow (an interactive 
Halloween-themed event). It also houses the Coney Island Museum. The annual 
Cosme 5K Charity Run/Walk, supported by the Coney Island Sports Foundation 
(CISF), takes place on the last Sunday of June on the Riegelmann Boardwalk. 
In August 2006, Coney Island hosted a major national volleyball tournament 
sponsored by the Association of Volleyball Professionals. The tournament, 
usually held on the west coast of the United States, was televised live 
on NBC. The league built a 4,000-seat stadium and twelve outer courts next 
to the boardwalk for the event.[67] The tournament returned to Coney Island 
in 2007 and 2008. In April 2009, Feld Entertainment, parent company to 
Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus, announced that "The Greatest 
Show on Earth" would perform on Coney Island for the entire summer of 2009, 
the first time since July 16, 1956 that Ringling Bros. had performed in 
this location. The tents were located between the boardwalk and Surf Avenue, 
and the show was called The Coney Island Boom-A-Ring. In 2010, they returned 
to the same location with The Coney Island Illuscination.[68] At the 2000 
census, there were 51,205 people living in Coney Island. Of those people, 
51.2% were White, 29.3% were Black, 18% were Hispanic or Latino, 3.8% were 
Asian, 0.5% were Native American, 0.1% were Pacific Islander, 7.6% were 
some other race, and 3.7% described themselves as two or more races. 70.5% 
had a high school diploma or higher, and 20.7% had a bachelor's degree 
or higher. The median household income in 1999 was $21,281. The neighborhoods 
on Coney Island, from west to east, are Sea Gate, Coney Island proper, 
Brighton Beach, and Manhattan Beach. Sea Gate is a private community, one 
of only a handful of neighborhoods in New York City where the streets are 
co-owned by the residents and the city. Sea Gate residents pay both, city 
and Sea Gate taxes. Sea Gate and the Breezy Point Cooperative are the only 
city neighborhoods cordoned off by a fence and gate houses. The majority 
of Coney Island's population resides in approximately thirty 18- to 24-story 
towers, mostly various forms of public housing. In between the towers are 
many blocks that were filled with vacant and burned out buildings. Since 
the 1990s there has been steady revitalization of the area. Many townhouses 
were built on empty lots, popular franchises opened, and Keyspan Park was 
built to serve as the home for the Brooklyn Cyclones baseball team. Once 
home to many Jewish residents, Coney Island's main population groups today 
are African American, Hispanic, and recent Russian immigrants. Coney Island 
is served by the New York City Department of Education. The Coney Island 
neighborhood is zoned to PS 90 Edna Cohen School for K-5 education[69][70] 
PS 329 (K-5), PS 188 The Michael E. Berdy School (K-5),[citation needed] 
PS 100 Coney Island School (K-5),[71][72] Mark Twain (6–8),[citation needed] 
IS 303 Herbert S. Eisenberg,[72][73][74] and PS/IS 288 The Shirley Tanyhill 
School (Pre-K-8) serve Coney Island.[citation needed] In 2006, David Scharfenberg 
of The New York Times said, "Coney Island’s elementary schools are a mixed 
lot, with only some exceeding citywide averages on the state’s testing 
regimen."[72] There are no zoned high schools, though Abraham Lincoln High 
School, an academic high school, is in Coney Island.[72][75] Rachel Carson 
High School for Coastal Studies is located in Coney Island.[76] Nearby 
high schools include: Brooklyn Public Library (BPL) operates the Coney 
Island Library. It opened in 1911 as an unmanned deposit station. In 1921 
it moved to the former Coney Island Times offices and became fully staffed. 
In 1954 another branch was built. BLP stated that the library was referred 
to as "the first-ever library built on stilts over the Atlantic Ocean."[77] 
Coney Island's main subway stop is Coney Island – Stillwell Avenue and 
is served by the D F N Q trains. The terminal is the largest elevated metro 
station in North America and one of the largest elevated metro stations 
in the world, with eight tracks serving four platforms in the station. 
The entire station was rebuilt in 2002–2004. The bus terminal beneath the 
station serves the B68 to Prospect Park, the B74 to the Coney Island/Sea 
Gate border, the B64 to Bay Ridge, and the B82 to Starrett City. The B36 
runs from the Sea Gate border at West 37th Street to Nostrand Avenue at 
Avenue U in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn. The X28 provides express bus service 
to Manhattan on weekdays. The three main west-east arteries in the Coney 
Island community, are, from north to south, Neptune Avenue (which crosses 
travels through Brighton Beach before becoming Emmons Avenue at Sheepshead 
Bay), Mermaid Avenue, and Surf Avenue (which becomes Ocean Parkway and 
then runs north toward Prospect Park). The cross streets in the Coney Island 
neighborhood proper are numbered with "West" prepended to their numbers, 
running from West 1st Street to West 37th Street at the border of Sea Gate 
(except for Cropsey Avenue, which becomes West 17th Street south of Neptune 
Avenue). The Ocean Parkway bicycle path, the oldest designated bicycle 
path in the United States, terminates in Coney Island. The Shore Parkway 
bikeway runs east along Jamaica Bay, and west and north along New York 
Harbor. Street bike lanes are marked in Neptune Avenue and other streets 
in Coney Island. Coney Island is expected to be served by the Citywide 
Ferry Service[78] at a date not yet determined.[79][80] Coney Island has 
been featured in many films, television shows, cartoons, and theatrical 
