Coordinates: 41°36′N 72°42′W﻿ / ﻿41.6°N 72.7°W﻿ / 41.6; -72.7 Richard Blumenthal 
(D) Connecticut (i/kəˈnɛtᵻkət/)[12] is the southernmost state in the New 
England region of the northeastern United States. Connecticut is also often 
grouped along with New York and New Jersey as the Tri-State Area. It is 
bordered by Rhode Island to the east, Massachusetts to the north, New York 
to the west, and Long Island Sound to the south. Its capital city is Hartford, 
and its most populous city is Bridgeport. The state is named for the Connecticut 
River, a major U.S. river that approximately bisects the state. The word 
"Connecticut" is derived from various anglicized spellings of an Algonquian 
word for "long tidal river".[13] Connecticut is the third smallest state 
by area,[14] the 29th most populous,[15] and the fourth most densely populated[14] 
of the 50 United States. It is known as the "Constitution State", the "Nutmeg 
State", the "Provisions State", and the "Land of Steady Habits".[1] It 
was influential in the development of the federal government of the United 
States. Much of southern and western Connecticut (along with the majority 
of the state's population) is part of the New York metropolitan area: three 
of Connecticut's eight counties are statistically included in the New York 
City combined statistical area, which is widely referred to as the Tri-State 
area. Connecticut's center of population is in Cheshire, New Haven County,[16] 
which is also located within the Tri-State area. Connecticut's first European 
settlers were Dutch. They established a small, short-lived settlement in 
present-day Hartford at the confluence of the Park and Connecticut rivers, 
called Huys de Goede Hoop. Initially, half of Connecticut was a part of 
the Dutch colony, New Netherland, which included much of the land between 
the Connecticut and Delaware rivers. The first major settlements were established 
in the 1630s by England. Thomas Hooker led a band of followers overland 
from the Massachusetts Bay Colony and founded what would become the Connecticut 
Colony; other settlers from Massachusetts founded the Saybrook Colony and 
the New Haven Colony. The Connecticut and New Haven Colonies established 
documents of Fundamental Orders, considered the first constitutions in 
North America. In 1662, the three colonies were merged under a royal charter, 
making Connecticut a crown colony. This colony was one of the Thirteen 
Colonies that revolted against British rule in the American Revolution. 
The Connecticut River, Thames River, and ports along the Long Island Sound 
have given Connecticut a strong maritime tradition, which continues today. 
The state also has a long history of hosting the financial services industry, 
including insurance companies in Hartford and hedge funds in Fairfield 
County. As of the 2010 Census, Connecticut features the highest per-capita 
income, Human Development Index (0.962), and median household income in 
the United States.[17][18][19] Bridgeport New Haven Hartford Stamford New 
London Willimantic Gold Star Bridge and Amtrak Thames River Bridge Mount 
Frissell, the highest point in the state Lake McDonough reservoir as seen 
from the Tunxis Trail Overlook Spur trail, Barkhamsted Connecticut is bordered 
on the south by Long Island Sound, on the west by New York, on the north 
by Massachusetts, and on the east by Rhode Island. The state capital and 
third largest city is Hartford, and other major cities and towns (by population) 
include Bridgeport, New Haven, Stamford, Waterbury, Norwalk, Danbury, New 
Britain, Greenwich, and Bristol. Connecticut is slightly larger than the 
country of Montenegro. There are 169 incorporated towns in Connecticut. 
The highest peak in Connecticut is Bear Mountain in Salisbury in the northwest 
corner of the state. The highest point is just east of where Connecticut, 
Massachusetts, and New York meet (42° 3' N; 73° 29' W), on the southern 
slope of Mount Frissell, whose peak lies nearby in Massachusetts.[20] At 
the opposite extreme, many of the coastal towns have areas that are less 
than 20 feet above sea level. Connecticut has a long maritime history and 
a reputation based on that history—yet the state has no direct oceanfront 
(technically speaking). The coast of Connecticut sits on Long Island Sound, 
which is an estuary. The state's access to the open Atlantic Ocean is both 
to the east (toward New York City) and to the west (toward the "race" near 
Rhode Island). This situation provides many safe harbors from ocean storms, 
and many transatlantic ships seek anchor inside Long Island Sound when 
tropical cyclones pass off the upper East Coast.[citation needed] The Connecticut 
River cuts through the center of the state, flowing into Long Island Sound. 
The most populous metropolitan region centered within the state lies in 
the Connecticut River Valley. Despite Connecticut's relatively small size, 
it features wide regional variations in its landscape; for example, in 
the northwestern Litchfield Hills, it features rolling mountains and horse 
farms, whereas in areas to the east of New Haven along the coast, the landscape 
features coastal marshes, beaches, and large scale maritime activities. 
Connecticut's rural areas and small towns in the northeast and northwest 
corners of the state contrast sharply with its industrial cities such as 
Stamford, Bridgeport, and New Haven, located along the coastal highways 
from the New York border to New London, then northward up the Connecticut 
River to Hartford. Many towns in northeastern and northwestern Connecticut 
center around a green, such as the Litchfield Green, Lebanon Green (the 
largest in the state), and Wethersfield Green (the oldest in the state). 
Near the green typically stand historical visual symbols of New England 
towns, such as a white church, a colonial meeting house, a colonial tavern 
or inn, several colonial houses, and so on, establishing a scenic historical 
appearance maintained for both historic preservation and tourism. Many 
of the areas in southern and coastal Connecticut have been built up and 
rebuilt over the years, and look less visually like traditional New England. 
Connecticut consists of temperate broadleaf and mixed forests of various 
oaks, beech, hickories, and maple. In the northwest part of the state, 
these give way to New England-Acadian forests of the Taconic Mountains.[21] 
The northern boundary of the state with Massachusetts is marked by the 
Southwick Jog or Granby Notch, an approximately 2.5 miles (4.0 km) square 
detour into Connecticut. The origin of this anomaly is clearly established 
in a long line of disputes and temporary agreements which were finally 
concluded in 1804, when southern Southwick's residents sought to leave 
Massachusetts, and the town was split in half.[22][23] The southwestern 
border of Connecticut where it abuts New York State is marked by a panhandle 
in Fairfield County, containing the towns of Greenwich, Stamford, New Canaan, 
Darien, and parts of Norwalk and Wilton. This irregularity in the boundary 
is the result of territorial disputes in the late 17th century, culminating 
with New York giving up its claim to the area, whose residents considered 
themselves part of Connecticut, in exchange for an equivalent area extending 
northwards from Ridgefield to the Massachusetts border, as well as undisputed 
claim to Rye, New York.[24] Areas maintained by the National Park Service 
include Appalachian National Scenic Trail, Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers 
Valley National Heritage Corridor, and Weir Farm National Historic Site.[25] 
Much of Connecticut has a humid continental climate, with cold winters 
and warm humid summers. Far southern and coastal Connecticut has a more 
mild humid temperate climate with seasonal extremes tempered by proximity 
to the Atlantic Ocean, warmer winters, and a longer frost-free season. 
Most of Connecticut sees a fairly even precipitation pattern with rainfall/snowfall 
spread throughout the 12 months. Connecticut averages 56% of possible sunshine 
(higher than the USA average), averaging 2,400 hours of sunshine annually.[26] 
Early spring (April) can range from cool to warm, while mid and late spring 
(May/early June) is warm to hot. Summer is hot and often humid throughout 
the state, with average highs in New London of 81 °F (27 °C) and 87 °F 
(31 °C) in Windsor Locks. Although summers are sunny in Connecticut, summer 
thunderstorms often bring quick downpours with thunder and lightning. Thunderstorms 
are most frequent during the summer, occurring on average 30 times annually. 
These storms can be severe, and the state usually averages one tornado 
per year.[27] During hurricane season, tropical cyclones occasionally affect 
the region. Fall months are mild and bring colorful foliage across northern 
parts of the state (the southern and coastal areas have more oak and hickory 
trees and fewer maples) in October and November. Winters are generally 
moderately cold from south to north in Connecticut, with average January 
temperatures ranging from 38 °F (3 °C) in the coastal lowlands to 29 °F 
(−2 °C) in the inland and northern portions on the state. The average yearly 
snowfall ranges from about 50–60 inches (1,300–1,500 mm) in the higher 
elevations of the northern portion of the state to only 20–25 inches (510–640 mm) 
along the southeast coast of Connecticut. Generally, any locale north or 
west of Interstate 84 receives the most snow, during a storm, and throughout 
the season. Most of Connecticut has less than 60 days of snow cover. Snow 
usually falls from late November to late March, though snow has fallen 
from October to mid April in some years. Connecticut's warmest temperature 
is 106 °F (41 °C) which occurred in Danbury on July 15, 1995; the coldest 
temperature is −32 °F (−36 °C) which occurred in Falls Village on February 
16, 1943, and Coventry on January 22, 1961.[28] The name Connecticut is 
derived from anglicized versions of the Algonquian word that has been translated 
as "long tidal river" and "upon the long river".[31] The Connecticut region 
was inhabited by multiple Indian tribes before European settlement and 
colonization, including the Mohegans, the Pequots, and the Paugusetts.[32] 
The first European explorer in Connecticut was Dutch explorer Adriaen Block.[33] 
After he explored this region in 1614, Dutch fur traders sailed up the 
Connecticut River (then known by the Dutch as Versche Rivier, "Fresh River") 
and built a fort at Dutch Point in present-day Hartford, which they called 
"House of Hope" (Dutch: Huis van Hoop).[34] The Connecticut Colony was 
originally a number of separate, smaller settlements at present-day Windsor, 
Wethersfield, Saybrook, Hartford, and New Haven. The first English settlers 
came in 1633 and settled at Windsor, and then at Wethersfield the following 
year.[35] John Winthrop the Younger of Massachusetts received a commission 
to create a new colony at Saybrook at the mouth of the Connecticut River 
in 1635.[36] The main body of settlers came in one large group in 1636. 
They were Puritans from Massachusetts, led by Thomas Hooker, who established 
the Connecticut Colony at Hartford.[37] The Quinnipiack Colony[38] was 
established by John Davenport, Theophilus Eaton, and others at present-day 
New Haven in March 1638. The New Haven Colony had its own constitution, 
"The Fundamental Agreement of the New Haven Colony", which was signed on 
June 4, 1639.[39] The settlements were established without official sanction 
of the English Crown; each was an independent political entity.[40] They 
naturally were presumptively English but, in a legal sense, they were only 
secessionist outposts of Massachusetts Bay or expansions from Plymouth 
Colony. In 1662, Winthrop traveled to England and obtained a charter from 
Charles II which united the settlements of Connecticut.[41] Historically 
important colonial settlements included Windsor (1633), Wethersfield (1634), 
Saybrook (1635), Hartford (1636), New Haven (1638), Fairfield (1639), Guilford 
(1639), Milford (1639), Stratford (1639), Farmington (1640), Stamford (1641), 
and New London (1646). The Pequot War marked the first major clash between 
Colonial settlers and Indians in New England. The Pequots reacted with 
increasing aggression to Colonial settlements in their territory, while 
simultaneously taking lands from the Narragansett and Mohegan tribes. Settlers 
responded to a murder in 1636 with a raid on a Pequot village on Block 
Island; the Pequots laid siege to Saybrook Colony's garrison that autumn, 
then raided Wethersfield in the spring of 1637. Colonists declared war 
on the Pequots, organized a band of militia and allies from the Mohegan 
and Narragansett tribes, and attacked a Pequot village on the Mystic River, 
with death toll estimates ranging between 300 and 700 Pequots. After suffering 
another major loss at a battle in Fairfield, the Pequots asked for a truce 
and peace terms.[42] Yale College was established in 1701, providing Connecticut 
with an important institution to educate clergy and civil leaders.[43] 
The Congregational church dominated religious life in the colony and, by 
extension, town affairs in many parts.[44] The western boundaries of Connecticut 
have been subject to change over time. The Hartford Treaty with the Dutch 
was signed on September 19, 1650, but it was never ratified by the British. 
According to it, the western boundary of Connecticut ran north from Greenwich 
Bay for a distance of 20 miles (32 km),[45][46] "provided the said line 
come not within 10 miles (16 km) of Hudson River."[45][46] This agreement 
was observed by both sides until war erupted between England and The Netherlands 
in 1652. Conflict continued concerning colonial limits until the Duke of 
York captured New Netherland in 1664.[45][46] On the other hand, Connecticut's 
original Charter in 1662 granted it all the land to the "South Sea"—that 
is, the Pacific Ocean.[47] Most Colonial royal grants were for long east-west 
strips. Connecticut took its grant seriously and established a ninth county 
between the Susquehanna and Delaware Rivers named Westmoreland County. 
This resulted in the brief Pennamite Wars with Pennsylvania.[48] Connecticut 
designated four delegates to the Second Continental Congress who signed 
the Declaration of Independence: Samuel Huntington, Roger Sherman, William 
Williams, and Oliver Wolcott.[49] Connecticut's legislature authorized 
the outfitting of six new regiments in 1775, in the wake of the clashes 
between British regulars and Massachusetts militia at Lexington and Concord. 
There were some 1,200 Connecticut troops on hand at the Battle of Bunker 
Hill in June 1775.[50] The British got word in 1777 of Continental Army 
supplies in Danbury, and they landed an expeditionary force of some 2,000 
troops in Westport. This force then marched to Danbury and destroyed homes 
and much of the depot. Continental Army troops and militia led by General 
David Wooster and General Benedict Arnold engaged them on their return 
march at Ridgefield in 1777.[51] For the winter of 1778–79, General George 
Washington decided to split the Continental Army into three divisions encircling 
New York City, where British General Sir Henry Clinton had taken up winter 
quarters.[52] Major General Israel Putnam chose Redding as the winter encampment 
quarters for some 3,000 regulars and militia under his command. The Redding 
encampment allowed Putnam's soldiers to guard the replenished supply depot 
in Danbury and to support any operations along Long Island Sound and the 
Hudson River Valley.[53] Some of the men were veterans of the winter encampment 
at Valley Forge, Pennsylvania the previous winter. Soldiers at the Redding 
camp endured supply shortages, cold temperatures, and significant snow, 
with some historians dubbing the encampment "Connecticut's Valley Forge".[54] 
The state was also the launching site for a number of raids against Long 
Island orchestrated by Samuel Holden Parsons and Benjamin Tallmadge,[55] 
and provided men and material for the war effort, especially to Washington's 
army outside New York City. General William Tryon raided the Connecticut 
coast in July 1779, focusing on New Haven, Norwalk, and Fairfield.[56] 
New London and Groton Heights were raided in September 1781 by Benedict 
Arnold, who had turned traitor to the British.[57] Connecticut ratified 
the U.S. Constitution on January 9, 1788, becoming the fifth state.[58] 
The state prospered during the era following the American Revolution, as 
mills and textile factories were built and seaports flourished from trade[59] 
and fisheries. In 1786, Connecticut ceded territory to the U.S. government 
that became part of the Northwest Territory. The state retained land extending 
across the northern part of present-day Ohio called the Connecticut Western 
Reserve.[60] The Western Reserve section was settled largely by people 
from Connecticut, and they brought Connecticut place names to Ohio. Connecticut 
made agreements with Pennsylvania and New York which extinguished her land 
claims within those states' boundaries and created the Connecticut Panhandle. 
The state then ceded the Western Reserve in 1800 to the federal government,[60] 
which brought it to its present boundaries (other than minor adjustments 
with Massachusetts). The British blockade during the War of 1812 hurt exports 
and bolstered the influence of Federalists who opposed the war.[61] The 
cessation of imports from Britain stimulated the construction of factories 
to manufacture textiles and machinery. Connecticut came to be recognized 
as a major center for manufacturing, due in part to the inventions of Eli 
Whitney and other early innovators of the Industrial Revolution.[62] The 
state was known for its political conservatism, typified by its Federalist 
party and the Yale College of Timothy Dwight. The foremost intellectuals 
were Dwight and Noah Webster,[63] who compiled his great dictionary in 
New Haven. Religious tensions polarized the state, as the Congregational 
Church struggled to maintain traditional viewpoints, in alliance with the 
Federalists. The failure of the Hartford Convention in 1814 hurt the Federalist 
cause, with the Republican Party gaining control in 1817.[64] Connecticut 
had been governed under the "Fundamental Orders" since 1639, but the state 
adopted a new constitution in 1818.[65] Connecticut manufacturers played 
a major role in supplying the Union forces with weapons and supplies during 
the Civil War. The state furnished 55,000 men, formed into thirty full 
regiments of infantry, including two in the U.S. Colored Troops, with several 
Connecticut men becoming generals. The Navy attracted 250 officers and 
2,100 men, and Glastonbury native Gideon Welles was Secretary of the Navy. 
James H. Ward of Hartford was the first U.S. Naval Officer killed in the 
Civil War.[66] Connecticut casualties included 2,088 killed in combat, 
2,801 dying from disease, and 689 dying in Confederate prison camps.[67][68][69] 
A surge of national unity in 1861 brought thousands flocking to the colors 
from every town and city. However, as the war became a crusade to end slavery, 
many Democrats (especially Irish Catholics) pulled back. The Democrats 
took a pro-slavery position and included many Copperheads willing to let 
the South secede. The intensely fought 1863 election for governor was narrowly 
won by the Republicans.[70][71] Connecticut's extensive industry, dense 
population, flat terrain, and wealth encouraged the construction of railroads 
starting in 1839. By 1840, 102 miles (164 km) of line were in operation, 
growing to 402 miles (647 km) in 1850 and 601 miles (967 km) in 1860.[72] 
The New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad, called the New Haven or 
"The Consolidated", became the dominant Connecticut railroad company after 
1872. J. P. Morgan began financing the major New England railroads in the 
1890s, dividing territory so that they would not compete. The New Haven 
purchased 50 smaller companies, including steamship lines, and built a 
network of light rails (electrified trolleys) that provided inter-urban 
transportation for all of southern New England. By 1912, the New Haven 
operated over 2,000 miles (3,200 km) of track with 120,000 employees.[73] 
In 1875, the first telephone exchange in the world was established in New 
Haven.[74] When World War I broke out in 1914, Connecticut became a major 
supplier of weaponry to the U.S. military; by 1918, 80% of the state's 
industries were producing goods for the war effort.[75] Remington Arms 
in Bridgeport produced half the small-arms cartridges used by the U.S. 
Army,[76] with other major suppliers including Winchester in New Haven 
and Colt in Hartford.[77] Connecticut was also an important U.S. Navy supplier, 
with Electric Boat receiving orders for 85 submarines,[78] Lake Torpedo 
Boat building more than 20 subs,[79] and the Groton Iron Works building 
freighters.[80] On June 21, 1916, the U.S. Navy made Groton the site for 
its East Coast submarine base and school. The state enthusiastically supported 
the American war effort in 1917 and 1918, with large purchases of war bonds, 
a further expansion of industry, and an emphasis on increasing food production 
on the farms. Thousands of state, local, and volunteer groups mobilized 
for the war effort and were coordinated by the Connecticut State Council 
of Defense.[81] Manufacturers wrestled with manpower shortages; Waterbury's 
American Brass and Manufacturing Company was running at half capacity, 
so the federal government agreed to furlough soldiers to work there.[82] 
In 1919, J. Henry Roraback started the Connecticut Light & Power Co.[83] 
which became the state's dominant electric utility. In 1925, Frederick 
Rentschler spurred the creation of Pratt & Whitney in Hartford to develop 
engines for aircraft; the company became an important military supplier 
in World War II and one of the three major manufacturers of jet engines 
in the world.[84] On September 21, 1938, the most destructive storm in 
New England history struck eastern Connecticut, killing hundreds of people.[85] 
The eye of the "Long Island Express" passed just west of New Haven and 
devastated the Connecticut shoreline between Old Saybrook and Stonington 
from the full force of wind and waves, as they the partial protection provided 
by Long Island. The hurricane caused extensive damage to infrastructure, 
homes, and businesses. In New London, a 500-foot sailing ship was driven 
into a warehouse complex, causing a major fire. Heavy rainfall caused the 
Connecticut River to flood downtown Hartford and East Hartford. An estimated 
50,000 trees fell onto roadways.[86] The advent of Lend-Lease in support 
of Britain helped lift Connecticut from the Great Depression,[87] with 
the state a major production center for weaponry and supplies used in World 
War II. Connecticut manufactured 4.1 percent of total U.S. military armaments 
produced during World War II, ranking ninth among the 48 states,[88] with 
major factories including Colt[89] for firearms, Pratt & Whitney for aircraft 
engines, Chance Vought for fighter planes, Hamilton Standard for propellers,[90] 
and Electric Boat for submarines and PT boats.[91] In Bridgeport, General 
Electric produced a significant new weapon to combat tanks: the bazooka.[92] 
On May 13, 1940, Igor Sikorsky made an untethered flight of the first practical 
helicopter.[93] The helicopter saw limited use in World War II, but future 
military production made Sikorsky Aircraft's Stratford plant Connecticut's 
largest single manufacturing site by the start of the 21st century.[94] 
Connecticut lost some wartime factories following the end of hostilities, 
but the state shared in a general post-war expansion that included the 
construction of highways[95] and resulting in middle-class growth in suburban 
areas. Prescott Bush represented Connecticut in the U.S. Senate from 1952 
to 1963; his son George H.W. Bush and grandson George W. Bush both became 
Presidents of the United States.[96] In 1965, Connecticut ratified its 
current constitution, replacing the document that had served since 1818.[97] 
In 1968, commercial operation began for the Connecticut Yankee Nuclear 
Power Plant in East Haddam; in 1970, the Millstone Nuclear Power Station 
began operations in Waterford.[98] In 1974, Connecticut elected Democratic 
Governor Ella T. Grasso, who became the first woman in any state to be 
elected governor.[99] Connecticut's dependence on the defense industry 
posed an economic challenge at the end of the Cold War. The resulting budget 
crisis helped elect Lowell Weicker as governor on a third-party ticket 
in 1990. Weicker's remedy was a state income tax which proved effective 
in balancing the budget, but only for the short-term. He did not run for 
a second term, in part because of this politically unpopular move.[100] 
In 1992, initial construction was completed on Foxwoods Casino at the Mashantucket 
Pequots reservation in eastern Connecticut, which became the largest casino 
in the Western Hemisphere. Mohegan Sun followed four years later.[101] 
In 2000, presidential candidate Al Gore chose Senator Joe Lieberman as 
his running mate, marking the first time that a major party presidential 
ticket included someone of the Jewish faith.[102] Gore and Lieberman fell 
five votes short of George W. Bush and Dick Cheney in the Electoral College. 
In the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, 65 state residents were 
killed, mostly Fairfield County residents who were working in the World 
Trade Center.[103] In 2004, Republican Governor John G. Rowland resigned 
during a corruption investigation, later pleading guilty to federal charges.[104][105] 
Connecticut was hit by three major storms in just over 14 months in 2011 
and 2012, with all three causing extensive property damage and electric 
outages. Hurricane Irene struck Connecticut August 28, and damage totaled 
$235 million.[106] Two months later, the "Halloween nor'easter" dropped 
extensive snow onto trees, resulting in snapped branches and trunks that 
damaged power lines; some areas were without electricity for 11 days.[107] 
Hurricane Sandy had tropical storm-force winds when it reached Connecticut 
October 29, 2012.[108] Sandy's winds drove storm surges into streets and 
cut power to 98 percent of homes and businesses, with more than $360 million 
in damage.[109] On December 14, 2012, Adam Lanza shot and killed 26 people 
at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, and then killed 
himself.[110] The massacre spurred renewed efforts by activists for tighter 
laws on gun ownership nationally.[111] In the summer and fall of 2016, 
Connecticut experienced a drought in many parts of the state, causing some 
water-use bans. As of October 4, 2016 (2016-10-04), 85% of the state was 
listed at Severe Drought by the US Drought Monitor, including all of Hartford, 
Middlesex, Fairfield, New London, most of Litchfield, and New Haven counties. 
All the rest of the state was in Moderate Drought, including most of Windham 
and some of Tolland counties. This affected the agricultural economy in 
the state.[112][113][114] Republican George W. Bush was born in Connecticut, 
winner in the 2000 and 2004 presidential elections. 9/11 killed 65 people 
living in Connecticut. Governor John G. Rowland was arrested for corruption 
in 2004. Tropical Storm Irene made landfall in Connecticut in August 2011. 
The 2011 October nor'easter caused major snow damage in the state. Category 
1 Hurricane Sandy made landfall in Connecticut in October 2012, causing 
heavy destruction. In the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting, Adam Lanza 
killed 20 children and 6 adults. The 2016 Connecticut Drought affected 
the agricultural market around the state, causing water limitations to 
be applied on some towns. The United States Census Bureau estimates that 
the population of Connecticut was 3,590,886 on July 1, 2015, a 0.47% increase 
since the 2010 United States Census.[8] As of 2015, Connecticut had an 
estimated population of 3,590,886,[8] which is an decrease of 5,791, or 
-0.16%, from the prior year and an increase of 16,789, or 0.47%, since 
the year 2010. This includes a natural increase since the last census of 
67,427 people (that is 222,222 births minus 154,795 deaths) and an increase 
due to net migration of 41,718 people into the state. Immigration from 
outside the United States resulted in a net increase of 75,991 people, 
and migration within the country produced a net loss of 34,273 people. 
Based on the 2005 estimates, Connecticut moves from the 29th most populous 
state to 30th. 6.6% of its population was reported as being under 5 years 
old, 24.7% under 18 years old, and 13.8% were 65 years of age or older. 
Females made up approximately 51.6% of the population, with 48.4% male. 
In 1790, 97% of the population in Connecticut was classified as "rural". 
The first census in which less than half the population was classified 
as rural was 1890. In the 2000 census, only 12.3% was considered rural. 
Most of western and southern Connecticut (particularly the Gold Coast) 
is strongly associated with New York City; this area is the most affluent 
and populous region of the state and has high property costs and high incomes. 
The center of population of Connecticut is located in the town of Cheshire.[16] 
As of the 2010 U.S. Census, Connecticut's race and ethnic percentages were: 
In the same year Hispanics and Latinos of any race made up 13.4% of the 
population.[118] The state's most populous ethnic group, Non-Hispanic White, 
has declined from 98% in 1940 to 71% in 2010.[119] As of 2004, 11.4% of 
the population (400,000) was foreign-born. In 1870, native-born Americans 
had accounted for 75% of the state's population, but that had dropped to 
35% by 1918. As of 2000, 81.69% of Connecticut residents age 5 and older 
spoke English at home and 8.42% spoke Spanish, followed by Italian at 1.59%, 
French at 1.31% and Polish at 1.20%.[122] The largest European ancestry 
groups are:[123] Connecticut has large Italian American, Irish American 
and English American populations, as well as German American and Polish 
American populations, with the Italian American population having the second 
highest percentage of any state, behind Rhode Island (19.3%). Italian is 
the largest ancestry group in five of the state's counties, while the Irish 
are the largest group in Tolland county, French Canadians the largest group 
in Windham county. Connecticut has the highest percentage of Puerto Ricans 
of any state.[124] African Americans and Hispanics (mostly Puerto Ricans) 
are numerous in the urban areas of the state. Connecticut is also known 
for its relatively large Hungarian American population, the majority of 
which live in and around Fairfield, Stamford, Naugatuck and Bridgeport. 
Connecticut also has a sizable Polish American population, with New Britain 
containing the largest Polish American population in the state. More recent 
immigrant populations include those from Jamaica, Guatemala, Haiti, Dominican 
Republic, Mexico, India, Philippines, Laos, Vietnam, Thailand, Cambodia, 
Indonesia, Brazil, Panama, Cape Verde and former Soviet countries.[125] 
As of 2011, 46.1% of Connecticut's population younger than age 1 were minorities.[126] 
The religious affiliations of the people of Connecticut as of 2014:[127] 
A Pew survey of Connecticut residents' religious self-identification showed 
the following distribution of affiliations: Protestant 27%, Mormonism 0.5%, 
Jewish 1%, Roman Catholic 43%, Orthodox 1%, Non-religious 23%, Jehovah's 
Witness 1%, Hinduism 0.5%, Buddhism 1% and Islam 0.5%.[128] Jewish congregations 
had 108,280 (3.2%) members in 2000.[129] The Jewish population is concentrated 
in the towns near Long Island Sound between Greenwich and New Haven, in 
Greater New Haven and in Greater Hartford, especially the suburb of West 
Hartford. According to the Association of Religion Data Archives, the largest 
Christian denominations, by number of adherents, in 2010 were: the Catholic 
Church, with 1,252,936; the United Church of Christ, with 96,506; and non-denominational 
Evangelical Protestants, with 72,863.[129] Recent immigration has brought 
other non-Christian religions to the state, but the numbers of adherents 
of other religions are still low. Connecticut is also home to New England's 
largest Protestant Church: The First Cathedral in Bloomfield, Connecticut 
located in Hartford County. Hartford is seat to the Roman Catholic Archdiocese 
of Hartford, which is sovereign over the Diocese of Bridgeport and the 
Diocese of Norwich. The total gross state product for 2012 was $229.3 billion, 
up from $225.4 billion in 2011.[130] Connecticut's per capita personal 
income in 2013 was estimated at $60,847, the highest of any state.[131] 
There is, however, a great disparity in incomes throughout the state; after 
New York, Connecticut had the second largest gap nationwide between the 
average incomes of the top 1 percent and the average incomes of the bottom 
99 percent.[132] According to a 2013 study by Phoenix Marketing International, 
Connecticut had the third-largest number of millionaires per capita in 
the United States, with a ratio of 7.32 percent.[133] New Canaan is the 
wealthiest town in Connecticut, with a per capita income of $85,459. Darien, 
Greenwich, Weston, Westport and Wilton also have per capita incomes over 
$65,000. Hartford is the poorest municipality in Connecticut, with a per 
capita income of $13,428 in 2000.[134] The state's seasonally adjusted 
unemployment rate in May 2016 was 5.7 percent, the 41st highest in the 
nation.[135] Before 1991, Connecticut had an investment-only income tax 
system. Income from employment was untaxed, but income from investments 
was taxed at 13%, the highest rate in the U.S., with no deductions allowed 
for costs of producing the investment income, such as interest on borrowing. 
In 1991, under Governor Lowell P. Weicker, Jr., an Independent, the system 
was changed to one in which the taxes on employment income and investment 
income were equalized at a maximum rate of 4%. The new tax policy drew 
investment firms to Connecticut; as of 2014, Fairfield County was home 
to the headquarters for 14 of the 200 largest hedge funds in the world.[136] 
As of 2014, the income tax rates on Connecticut individuals are divided 
into six tax brackets of 3% (on income up to $10,000); 5% ($10,000-$50,000); 
5.5% ($50,000-$100,000); 6% ($100,000-$200,000); 6.5% ($200,000-$250,000); 
and 6.7% (more than $250,000), with additional amounts owed depending on 
the bracket.[137] All wages of Connecticut residents are subject to the 
state's income tax, even if earned outside the state. However, in those 
cases, Connecticut income tax must be withheld only to the extent the Connecticut 
tax exceeds the amount withheld by the other jurisdiction. Since New York 
and Massachusetts have higher tax rates than Connecticut, this effectively 
means that Connecticut residents that work in those states have no Connecticut 
income tax withheld. Connecticut permits a credit for taxes paid to other 
jurisdictions, but since residents who work in other states are still subject 
to Connecticut income taxation, they may owe taxes if the jurisdictional 
credit does not fully offset the Connecticut tax amount. Connecticut levies 
a 6.35% state sales tax on the retail sale, lease, or rental of most goods.[138] 
Some items and services in general are not subject to sales and use taxes 
unless specifically enumerated as taxable by statute. A provision excluding 
clothing under $50 from sales tax was repealed as of July 1, 2011.[138] 
There are no additional sales taxes imposed by local jurisdictions. In 
August 2013, Connecticut authorized a sales tax "holiday" for one week 
during which retailers did not have to remit sales tax on certain items 
and quantities of clothing.[139] All real and personal property located 
within the state of Connecticut is taxable unless specifically exempted 
by statute. All assessments are at 70% of fair market value. Another 20% 
of the value may be taxed by the local government though. The maximum property 
tax credit is $300 per return and any excess may not be refunded or carried 
forward.[140] Connecticut does not levy an intangible personal property 
tax. According to the Tax Foundation, the 2010 Census data shows Connecticut 
residents paying the 2nd highest average property taxes in the nation with 
only New Jersey ahead of them.[141] The Tax Foundation determined Connecticut 
residents had the third highest burden in the nation for state and local 
taxes at 11.86%, or $7,150, compared to the national average of 9.8%.[142] 
As of 2014, the gasoline tax in Connecticut is 49.3 cents per gallon (the 
third highest in the nation) and the diesel tax is 54.9 cents per gallon 
(the highest in the nation).[143] Of home-sale transactions that closed 
in March 2014, the median home in Connecticut sold for $225,000, up 3.2% 
from March 2013.[144] Connecticut ranked ninth nationally in foreclosure 
activity as of April 2014, with one of every 887 residential units involved 
in a foreclosure proceeding, or 0.11% of the total housing stock.,[145] 
including City Place I and the Traveler's Tower, both housing the major 
insurance industry. Finance and insurance is Connecticut's largest industry, 
according to the U.S. Census Bureau, generating 16.4% of gross domestic 
product (GDP) in 2009. Major financial industry employers include The Hartford, 
Travelers, Cigna, Aetna, Mass Mutual, People's United Financial,[146] Royal 
Bank of Scotland,[147] UBS[148] Bridgewater Associates,[149] and GE Capital. 
Separately, the real estate industry accounted for an additional 15% of 
economic activity in 2009, with major employers including Realogy[150] 
and William Raveis Real Estate.[151] Manufacturing is the third biggest 
industry at 11.9% of GDP and dominated by Hartford-based United Technologies 
Corporation (UTC), which employs more than 22,000 people in Connecticut.[152] 
Lockheed Martin subsidiary Sikorsky Aircraft operates Connecticut's single 
largest manufacturing plant in Stratford,[151] where it makes helicopters. 
Other UTC divisions include UTC Propulsion and Aerospace Systems, including 
jet engine manufacturer Pratt & Whitney and UTC Building and Industrial 
Systems.[153] Other major manufacturers include the Electric Boat division 
of General Dynamics, which makes submarines in Groton,[154] and Boehringer 
Ingelheim, a pharmaceuticals manufacturer with its U.S. headquarters in 
Ridgefield.[151] Connecticut historically was a center of gun manufacturing, 
and four gun-manufacturing firms continued to operate in the state as of 
December 2012, employing 2,000 people: Colt, Stag, Ruger, and Mossberg.[155] 
Marlin, owned by Remington, closed in April 2011.[156] A report issued 
by the Connecticut Commission on Culture & Tourism on December 7, 2006 
demonstrated that the areas of the arts, film, history, and tourism generated 
more than $14 billion in economic activity and 170,000 jobs annually. This 
provides $9 billion in personal income for Connecticut residents and $1.7 billion 
in state and local revenue.[157] The Foxwoods Resort Casino and Mohegan 
Sun casino number among the state's largest employers;[158] both are located 
on Indian reservations in the eastern part of Connecticut. Connecticut's 
agricultural sector employed about 12,000 people as of 2010, with more 
than a quarter of that number involved in nursery stock production. Other 
agricultural products include dairy products and eggs, tobacco, fish and 
shellfish, and fruit.[159] Oyster harvesting was historically an important 
source of income to towns along the Connecticut coastline. In the 19th 
century, oystering boomed in New Haven, Bridgeport, and Norwalk and achieved 
modest success in neighboring towns. In 1911, Connecticut's oyster production 
reached its peak at nearly 25 million pounds of oyster meats. This was, 
at the time, higher than production in New York, Rhode Island, or Massachusetts.[160] 
During this time, the Connecticut coast was known in the shellfishing industry 
as the oyster capital of the world. From before World War 1 until 1969, 
Connecticut laws restricted the right to harvest oysters in state-owned 
beds to sailing vessels. These laws prompted the construction of the oyster 
sloop style vessel that lasted well into the 20th century.[161] The sloop 
Hope is believed to be the last oyster sloop built in Connecticut, completed 
in Greenwich in 1948. The Interstate highways in the state are Interstate 95 
(I-95; the Connecticut Turnpike) traveling southwest to northeast along 
the coast, I-84 traveling southwest to northeast in the center of the state, 
I-91 traveling north to south in the center of the state, and I-395 traveling 
north to south near the eastern border of the state. The other major highways 
in Connecticut are the Merritt Parkway and Wilbur Cross Parkway, which 
together form Connecticut Route 15 (Route 15), traveling from the Hutchinson 
River Parkway in New York parallel to I-95 before turning north of New 
Haven and traveling parallel to I-91, finally becoming a surface road in 
Berlin. I-95 and Route 15 were originally toll roads; they relied on a 
system of toll plazas at which all traffic stopped and paid fixed tolls. 
A series of terrible crashes at these plazas eventually contributed to 
the decision to remove the tolls in 1988.[162] Other major arteries in 
the state include U.S. Route 7 (US 7) in the west traveling parallel to 
the New York state line, Route 8 farther east near the industrial city 
of Waterbury and traveling north–south along the Naugatuck River Valley 
nearly parallel with US 7, and Connecticut Route 9 in the east. Between 
New Haven and New York City, I-95 is one of the most congested highways 
in the United States. Many people now drive longer distances to work in 
the New York City area. This strains the three lanes of traffic capacity, 
resulting in lengthy rush hour delays. Frequently, the congestion spills 
over to clog the parallel Merritt Parkway. The state has encouraged traffic 
reduction schemes, including rail use and ride-sharing.[163] Connecticut 
also has a very active bicycling community, with one of the highest rates 
of bicycle ownership and use in the United States. New Haven's cycling 
community, organized in a local advocacy group called ElmCityCycling, is 
particularly active. According to the US Census 2006 American Community 
Survey, New Haven has the highest percentage of commuters who bicycle to 
work of any major metropolitan center on the East Coast.[citation needed] 
Southwestern Connecticut is served by the Metro-North Railroad's New Haven 
Line, operated by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and providing 
commuter service to New York City and New Haven, with branches servicing 
New Canaan, Danbury, and Waterbury. Connecticut lies along Amtrak's Northeast 
Corridor which features frequent Northeast Regional and Acela Express service. 
Towns between New Haven and New London are also served by the Shore Line 
East commuter line. A commuter rail service called the Hartford Line between 
New Haven and Springfield on Amtrak's New Haven-Springfield Line is scheduled 
to begin operating in 2018. A proposed commuter rail service, the Central 
Corridor Rail Line, will connect New London with Norwich, Willimantic, 
Storrs, and Stafford Springs, with service continuing into Massachusetts 
and Brattleboro. Amtrak also operates a shuttle service between New Haven 
and Springfield, Massachusetts, serving Wallingford, Meriden, Berlin, Hartford, 
Windsor Locks, and Springfield, MA and the Vermonter runs from Washington 
to St. Albans, Vermont via the same line. Statewide bus service is supplied 
by Connecticut Transit, owned by the Connecticut Department of Transportation, 
with smaller municipal authorities providing local service. Bus networks 
are an important part of the transportation system in Connecticut, especially 
in urban areas like Hartford, Stamford, Norwalk, Bridgeport and New Haven. 
Connecticut Transit also operates CTfastrak, a bus rapid transit service 
between New Britain and Hartford. The bus route opened to the public on 
March 28, 2015.[164][165][166] Bradley International Airport is located 
in Windsor Locks, 15 miles (24 km) north of Hartford. Regional air service 
is provided at Tweed New Haven Regional Airport. Larger civil airports 
include Danbury Municipal Airport and Waterbury-Oxford Airport in western 
Connecticut, and Groton-New London Airport in eastern Connecticut. Sikorsky 
Memorial Airport is located in Stratford and mostly services cargo, helicopter 
and private aviation. The Rocky Hill – Glastonbury Ferry and the Chester–Hadlyme 
Ferry cross the Connecticut River. The Bridgeport & Port Jefferson Ferry 
travels between Bridgeport, Connecticut and Port Jefferson, New York by 
crossing Long Island Sound. Ferry service also operates out of New London 
to Orient, New York; Fishers Island, New York; and Block Island, Rhode 
Island. Hartford has been the sole capital of Connecticut since 1875. Before 
then, New Haven and Hartford alternated as capitals.[58] Connecticut is 
known as the "Constitution State". The origin of this nickname is uncertain, 
but it likely comes from Connecticut's pivotal role in the federal constitutional 
convention of 1787, during which Roger Sherman and Oliver Ellsworth helped 
to orchestrate what became known as the Connecticut Compromise, or the 
Great Compromise. This plan combined the Virginia Plan and the New Jersey 
Plan to form a bicameral legislature, a form copied by almost every state 
constitution since the adoption of the federal constitution. Variations 
of the bicameral legislature had been proposed by Virginia and New Jersey, 
but Connecticut's plan was the one that was in effect until the early 20th 
century, when Senators ceased to be selected by their state legislatures 
and were instead directly elected. Otherwise, it is still the design of 
Congress. The nickname also might refer to the Fundamental Orders of 1638–39. 
These Fundamental Orders represent the framework for the first formal Connecticut 
state government written by a representative body in Connecticut. The State 
of Connecticut government has operated under the direction of four separate 
documents in the course of the state's constitutional history. After the 
Fundamental Orders, Connecticut was granted governmental authority by King 
Charles II of England through the Connecticut Charter of 1662. Separate 
branches of government did not exist during this period, and the General 
Assembly acted as the supreme authority. A constitution similar to the 
modern U.S. Constitution was not adopted in Connecticut until 1818. Finally, 
the current state constitution was implemented in 1965. The 1965 constitution 
absorbed a majority of its 1818 predecessor, but incorporated a handful 
of important modifications. The governor heads the executive branch. As 
of 2011[update], Dannel Malloy is the Governor[167] and Nancy Wyman is 
the Lieutenant Governor,[168] both are Democrats. Malloy, the former mayor 
of Stamford, won the 2010 general election for Governor, and was sworn 
in on January 5, 2011. From 1639 until the adoption of the 1818 constitution, 
the governor presided over the General Assembly. In 1974, Ella Grasso was 
elected as the governor of Connecticut. This was the first time in United 
States history when a woman was a governor without her husband being governor 
first.[99] There are several executive departments: Administrative Services, 
Agriculture, Banking, Children and Families, Consumer Protection, Correction, 
Economic and Community Development, Developmental Services, Construction 
Services, Education, Emergency Management and Public Protection, Energy 
& Environmental Protection, Higher Education, Insurance, Labor, Mental 
Health and Addiction Services, Military, Motor Vehicles, Public Health, 
Public Utility Regulatory Authority, Public Works, Revenue Services, Social 
Services, Transportation, and Veterans Affairs. In addition to these departments, 
there are other independent bureaus, offices and commissions.[169] In addition 
to the Governor and Lieutenant Governor, there are four other executive 
officers named in the state constitution that are elected directly by voters: 
Secretary of the State, Treasurer, Comptroller, and Attorney General. All 
executive officers are elected to four-year terms.[58] The legislature 
is the General Assembly. The General Assembly is a bicameral body consisting 
of an upper body, the State Senate (36 senators); and a lower body, the 
House of Representatives (151 representatives).[58] Bills must pass each 
house in order to become law. The governor can veto the bill, but this 
veto can be overridden by a two-thirds majority in each house. Per Article 
XV of the state constitution, Senators and Representatives must be at least 
18 years of age and are elected to two-year terms in November on even-numbered 
years. There also must always be between 30 and 50 senators and 125 to 
225 representatives. The Lieutenant Governor presides over the Senate, 
except when absent from the chamber, when the President pro tempore presides. 
The Speaker of the House presides over the House.[170] As of 2014[update], 
Brendan Sharkey is the Speaker of the House of Connecticut. As of 2015[update], 
Connecticut's United States Senators are Richard Blumenthal (Democrat) 
and Chris Murphy (Democrat).[171] Connecticut has five representatives 
in the U.S. House, all of whom are Democrats.[172] Locally elected representatives 
also develop Local ordinances to govern cities and towns.[173] The town 
ordinances often include noise control and zoning guidelines.[174] However, 
the State of Connecticut does also provide statewide ordinances for noise 
control as well.[175] The highest court of Connecticut's judicial branch 
is the Connecticut Supreme Court, headed by the Chief Justice of Connecticut. 
The Supreme Court is responsible for deciding on the constitutionality 
of the law or cases as they relate to the law. Its proceedings are similar 
to those of the United States Supreme Court, with no testimony given by 
witnesses, and the lawyers of the two sides each present oral arguments 
no longer than thirty minutes. Following a court proceeding, the court 
may take several months to arrive at a judgment. As of 2015[update] the 
Chief Justice is Chase T. Rogers.[176] In 1818, the court became a separate 
entity, independent of the legislative and executive branches.[177] The 
Appellate Court is a lesser statewide court and the Superior Courts are 
lower courts that resemble county courts of other states. The State of 
Connecticut also offers access to Arrest warrant enforcement statistics 
through the Office of Policy and Management.[178] Connecticut does not 
have county government, unlike all other states except Rhode Island. Connecticut 
county governments were mostly eliminated in 1960, with the exception of 
sheriffs elected in each county.[179] In 2000, the county sheriff was abolished 
and replaced with the state marshal system, which has districts that follow 
the old county territories. The judicial system is divided into judicial 
districts at the trial-court level which largely follow the old county 
lines.[180] The eight counties are still widely used for purely geographical 
and statistical purposes, such as weather reports and census reporting. 
Connecticut shares with the rest of New England a governmental institution 
called the New England town. The state is divided into 169 towns which 
serve as the fundamental political jurisdictions.[58] There are also 21 
cities,[58] most of which simply follow the boundaries of their namesake 
towns and have a merged city-town government. There are two exceptions: 
the City of Groton, which is a subsection of the Town of Groton, and the 
City of Winsted in the Town of Winchester. There are also nine incorporated 
boroughs which may provide additional services to a section of town.[58][181] 
Naugatuck is a consolidated town and borough. The state is also divided 
into 15 planning regions defined by the state Office of Planning and Management, 
with the exception of the Town of Stafford in Tolland County.[182] The 
Intragovernmental Policy Division of this Office coordinates regional planning 
with the administrative bodies of these regions. Each region has an administrative 
body known as a regional council of governments, a regional council of 
elected officials, or a regional planning agency. The regions are established 
for the purpose of planning "coordination of regional and state planning 
activities; redesignation of logical planning regions and promotion of 
the continuation of regional planning organizations within the state; and 
provision for technical aid and the administration of financial assistance 
to regional planning organizations".[182] Connecticut residents who register 
to vote have the option of declaring an affiliation to a political party, 
may become unaffiliated at will, and may change affiliations subject to 
certain waiting periods. As of 2013[update] about 58% of registered voters 
are enrolled (about 1% total in 18 third parties minor parties), and ratios 
among unaffiliated voters and the two major parties are about 8 unaffiliated 
for every 7 in the Democratic Party of Connecticut and for every 4 in the 
Connecticut Republican Party. (Among the minor parties, the Libertarian 
Party and Independent Party appeared in the Presidential-electors column 
in 2012, and drew, respectively, 0.81% and 0.35% of the vote.) Many Connecticut 
towns show a marked preference for moderate candidates of either party.[2] 
Elections in Connecticut take place mostly at the levels of town and/or 
city, state legislative districts for both houses, Congressional districts, 
and statewide. In almost all races, the two major parties have some practical 
advantages granted on the basis of their respective performances in the 
most recent election covering the same constituency. Several processes, 
to varying degrees internal to either a major or minor party, are in practice 
nearly prerequisites to being permitted mention on the provided ballots, 
and even more so to winning office. More specifically, the status of "major 
party" is usually reconfirmed every four years, as belonging to the two 
parties that polled best, statewide, in the gubernatorial column; this 
status includes the benefit of appearing in one of the top two rows on 
the ballot provided the party has at least one candidate on the ballot. 
Minor parties appear below major parties, and their performance in recent 
elections determines whether a candidates who wins in their nomination 
process must also meet a petitioning threshold in order to appear. In a 
major party, a party convention for the office's constituency must be held; 
in practice, at the town level, a major party convention of voters of the 
town who are enrolled in the party usually is attended almost exclusively 
by members of the town party committee. The convention may choose to endorse 
a candidate, who will appear on the ballot unless additional candidates 
meet a petition threshold for a primary election; if at least one candidate 
meets the petition threshold, the endorsed candidate and all who meet the 
threshold appear on the primary ballot, and the winner of the primary election 
appears on the party line for that office. A candidate wishing to run on 
the ballot line of a minor-party which has recently enough met a general-election 
vote threshold follows similar steps; candidates of other minor parties 
must meet petition thresholds, and if other candidates of the same party, 
for the same office, do so as well, only the winner of a resulting primary 
will appear on the ballot. Campaigns by candidates not on the ballot generally 
are entirely symbolic, and while any voter can cast a write-in ballot, 
write-in ballots are not even tallied by election officials, except for 
candidates who have submitted a formal request that the tally be made. 
In short, most winning candidates have won the endorsement of the applicable 
"major"-party convention; nearly all of the rest have won with a "professionally 
managed" primary-election campaign; and successful minor-party candidates 
are almost without exception major-party figures like Lowell Weicker whose 
minor parties disappear after that success. A Connecticut Party, which 
Weicker founded, became nominally the leading major party, and state law 
was changed during his administration to provide that in a situation such 
as his win, the top "three" parties in the governor's race all became major 
parties. Chris Murphy and Richard Blumenthal are Connecticut's U.S. senators; 
both are Democrats. The suburban towns of New Canaan and Darien in Fairfield 
County are considered the most Republican areas in the state. Westport, 
a wealthy town a few miles to the east, is often considered one of the 
most loyally Democratic, liberal towns in Fairfield County. The historically 
Republican-leaning wealthy town of Wilton voted in the majority for Barack 
Obama in the 2008 Presidential Election. Fairfield, the namesake of the 
county, has historically favored moderate Republicans in municipal, congressional, 
senatorial, and gubernatorial campaigns, but in recent years has supported 
Democratic Presidential nominees. Norwalk and Stamford, two larger, mixed-income 
communities in Fairfield County, have in many elections favored moderate 
Republicans including former Governor John G. Rowland and former Congressman 
Chris Shays, however they have favored Democrats in recent US presidential 
election years, with Shays being defeated by Democrat Jim Himes in the 
2008 election. The state's Republican-leaning areas are the rural Litchfield 
County and adjoining towns in the west of Hartford County, the industrial 
towns of the Naugatuck River Valley, and some of the affluent Fairfield 
County towns near the New York border. Joe Lieberman's predecessor, Lowell 
P. Weicker, Jr., was the last Connecticut Republican to serve as Senator. 
Weicker was known as a liberal Republican. He broke with President Richard 
Nixon during Watergate and successfully ran for governor in 1990 as an 
independent, creating A Connecticut Party as his election vehicle. Before 
Weicker, the last Republican to represent Connecticut in the Senate was 
Prescott Bush, the father of former President George H.W. Bush and the 
grandfather of former President George W. Bush. He served 1953–63. Waterbury 
has a Democratic registration edge, but usually favors conservative candidates 
of both traditional parties. In Danbury unaffiliated voters outnumber voters 
registered with either major party. Other smaller cities including Meriden, 
New Britain, Norwich and Middletown favor Democratic candidates. The state's 
major cities—Hartford, New Haven, Bridgeport and Stamford—are all strongly 
Democratic. As of 2011[update], Democrats controlled all five federal congressional 
seats. The last Republican to be elected, Chris Shays, lost his seat to 
Democrat Jim Himes in 2008. In April 2012 both houses of the Connecticut 
state legislature passed a bill (20 to 16 and 86 to 62) that abolished 
the capital punishment for all future crimes, while 11 inmates who were 
waiting on the death row at the time could still be executed.[185] In July 
2009 the Connecticut legislature overrode a veto by Governor M. Jodi Rell 
to pass SustiNet, the first significant public-option health care reform 
legislation in the nation.[186] The Connecticut State Board of Education 
manages the public school system for children in grades K–12. Board of 
Education members are appointed by the Governor of Connecticut. Statistics 
for each school are made available to the public through an online database 
system called "CEDAR".[187] The CEDAR database also provides statistics 
for "ACES" or "RESC" schools for children with behavioral disorders.[188] 
Connecticut was home to the nation's first law school, Litchfield Law School, 
which operated from 1773 to 1833 in Litchfield. Hartford Public High School 
(1638) is the third-oldest secondary school in the nation after the Collegiate 
School (1628) in Manhattan and the Boston Latin School (1635). The state 
also has many noted private day schools, and its boarding schools draw 
students from around the world. Connecticut has been the home of multiple 
teams in the big four sports leagues, though currently hosts none. Connecticut's 
longest-tenured and only modern full-time "big four" franchise were the 
Hartford Whalers of the National Hockey League, who played in Hartford 
from 1975 to 1997 at the Hartford Civic Center. Their departure to Raleigh, 
North Carolina, over disputes with the state over the construction of a 
new arena, caused great controversy and resentment. The former Whalers 
are now known as the Carolina Hurricanes. Presently, there are two Connecticut 
teams in the American Hockey League: the Bridgeport Sound Tigers, a farm 
team for the New York Islanders, compete at the Webster Bank Arena in Bridgeport 
and the Hartford Wolf Pack, the affiliate of the New York Rangers, play 
in the XL Center in Hartford. The Hartford Dark Blues joined the National 
League for one season in 1876, making them the state's only Major League 
Baseball franchise, before moving to Brooklyn, New York and then disbanding 
one season later. Connecticut is a battleground between fans of the New 
York Yankees, Boston Red Sox, and New York Mets.[203] For the Mets and 
Red Sox, split allegiances among fans of both teams in the state during 
the 1986 World Series led to an article in The Boston Globe to coin the 
phrase "Red Sox Nation".[204] In 1926, Hartford had a franchise in the 
National Football League known as the Hartford Blues. The NFL would return 
to Connecticut from 1973 to 1974 when New Haven hosted the New York Giants 
at Yale Bowl while Giants Stadium was under construction.[205] From 1975 
to 1995, the Boston Celtics of the National Basketball Association played 
a number of home games at the Hartford Civic Center. The Connecticut Sun 
of the WNBA currently play at the Mohegan Sun Arena in Uncasville. From 
1996 to 1998, Connecticut was home to another professional woman's basketball 
team, American Basketball League franchise the New England Blizzard, who 
played at the XL Center. Hartford has hosted two Arena Football League 
franchises, in the Connecticut Coyotes from 1995 to 1996 and the New England 
Sea Wolves from 1999 to 2000, both playing at the Civic Center. Hartford 
was home to the Hartford Colonials of the United Football League for one 
season in 2010. The state hosts several major sporting events. Since 1952, 
a PGA Tour golf tournament has been played in the Hartford area. Originally 
called the "Insurance City Open" and later the "Greater Hartford Open", 
the event is now known as the Travelers Championship. The Connecticut Open 
tennis tournament is held annually in the Cullman-Heyman Tennis Center 
at Yale University in New Haven. Lime Rock Park in Salisbury is a 1.5-mile 
(2.4 km) road racing course, home to American Le Mans Series, Grand-Am 
Rolex Sports Car Series, SCCA and K&N Pro Series East races. Thompson International 
Speedway, Stafford Motor Speedway and Waterford Speedbowl are oval tracks 
holding weekly races for NASCAR Modifieds and other classes, including 
the NASCAR Whelen Modified Tour. The state also hosts several major mixed 
martial arts events for Bellator MMA and the Ultimate Fighting Championship. 
The Connecticut Interscholastic Athletic Conference (CIAC) is the state's 
sanctioning body for high school sports. The Connecticut Huskies, often 
called "UConn", play NCAA Division I sports and are popular in the state. 
Both the men's basketball and women's basketball teams have won multiple 
national championships, including in 2004, when UConn became the first 
school in NCAA Division I history to have its men's and women's basketball 
programs win the national title in the same year.[206] In 2014, UConn repeated 
its feat of being the only school in NCAA Division I to win men's and women's 
basketball tournaments in the same year.[207] The UConn women's basketball 
team holds the record for the longest consecutive winning streak in NCAA 
college basketball at 90 games, a streak that ended in 2008.[citation needed] 
The UConn Huskies football team has played in the Football Bowl Subdivision 
since 2002, and has played in four bowl games since. New Haven biennially 
hosts "The Game" between the Yale Bulldogs and the Harvard Crimson, the 
country's second-oldest college football rivalry. Yale alum Walter Camp, 
deemed the "Father of American Football", helped develop modern football 
while living in New Haven.[208] Other Connecticut universities which feature 
Division I sports teams are Quinnipiac University, Fairfield University, 
Central Connecticut State University, Sacred Heart University, and the 
University of Hartford. The name "Connecticut" originated with the Mohegan 
word quonehtacut, meaning "place of long tidal river".[58] Connecticut's 
official nickname is "The Constitution State", adopted in 1959 and based 
on its colonial constitution of 1638–39 which was the first in America 
and, arguably, the world.[1] Connecticut is also unofficially known as 
"The Nutmeg State,"[1] whose origins are unknown. It may have come from 
its sailors returning from voyages with nutmeg, which was a very valuable 
spice in the 18th and 19th centuries. It may have originated in the early 
machined sheet tin nutmeg grinders sold by early Connecticut peddlers. 
It is also facetiously said to come from Yankee peddlers from Connecticut 
who would sell small carved nobs of wood shaped to look like nutmeg to 
unsuspecting customers.[209] George Washington gave Connecticut the title 
of "The Provisions State"[1] because of the material aid that the state 
rendered to the American Revolutionary War effort. Connecticut is also 
known as "The Land of Steady Habits".[1] According to Webster's New International 
Dictionary (1993), a person who is a native or resident of Connecticut 
is a "Connecticuter". There are numerous other terms coined in print but 
not in use, such as "Connecticotian" (Cotton Mather in 1702) and "Connecticutensian" 
(Samuel Peters in 1781). Linguist Allen Walker Read suggests the more playful 
term "connecticutie." "Nutmegger" is sometimes used,[209] as is "Yankee." 
The official state song is "Yankee Doodle"), though this usually refers 
to someone from the wider New England region. (In the Southern United States, 
the term "Yankee" refers to anyone who lives north of the Mason–Dixon line.) 
The traditional abbreviation of the state's name is "Conn.;" the official 
postal abbreviation is CT. Commemorative stamps issued by the United States 
Postal Service with Connecticut themes include Nathan Hale, Eugene O'Neill, 
Josiah Willard Gibbs, Noah Webster, Eli Whitney, the whaling ship the Charles 
W. Morgan which is docked in Mystic Seaport, and a decoy of a broadbill 
