The Continental League of Professional Baseball Clubs (known as the Continental 
League or CL) was a proposed third major league for baseball in the United 
States and Canada, announced in 1959 and scheduled to begin play in the 
1961 season. Unlike predecessor competitors such as the Players' League 
and the Federal League, it sought membership within organized baseball's 
existing organization and acceptance within Major League Baseball. The 
league disbanded in August 1960 without playing a single game as a concession 
by William A. Shea as part of his negotiations with Major League Baseball 
to expand to incorporate at least 8 new teams. The Continental League was 
the last serious attempt to create a third major league consisting of new 
clubs. The New York Giants (to San Francisco) and the Brooklyn Dodgers 
(to Los Angeles) moved to California following the 1957 season; New York 
City mayor Robert F. Wagner, Jr. appointed a four-man committee to bring 
the National League back to the city in 1958. The Continental League was 
the idea of attorney William Shea, proposed in November 1958. On July 27, 
1959, the new league was formally announced, with teams in Denver, Houston, 
Minneapolis–St. Paul, New York City, and Toronto. The name of the league 
was said to have been the suggestion of Colorado senator Edwin C. Johnson. 
Representing the team owners at the announcement were Bob Howsam (Denver), 
Craig F. Cullinan, Jr. (Houston), Wheelock Whitney Jr. (Minneapolis–St. 
Paul), Dwight F. Davis, Jr., who was representing the group headed by Joan 
Whitney Payson (New York), and Jack Kent Cooke (Toronto). Owners in each 
city had agreed to pay US$50,000 to the league and committed to a capital 
investment of $2.5 million, not including stadium costs. A minimum seating 
capacity of 35,000 was established by the league for the venues in which 
its teams would play. At least three other teams were expected to be in 
place before play began in 1961, and the league said it had received applications 
from 10 cities. The three that were later selected were Atlanta, Buffalo 
(backed by Robert O. Swados), and Dallas/Ft. Worth. Former Dodgers president 
Branch Rickey was named league president. Appearing in that capacity as 
a guest on the live network broadcast of What's My Line on Sunday, September 
13, 1959, he pronounced the new league as "Inevitable as tomorrow morning." 
On February 18, 1960, Rickey and Cooke announced an opening date of April 
18, 1961.[1] The Major League Baseball commissioner's office was noncommittal 
on the issue. At that time, however, the American League and the National 
League enjoyed far more autonomy than they do today, answering more to 
their constituent owners (who were universally hostile to the new league) 
than to the Commissioner's Office. They reacted to the formation of the 
new league by announcing plans to expand by adding two teams in each of 
the existing leagues. Priority would be given, it was stated, to cities 
that did not have Major League Baseball. Accordingly, the NL placed one 
of its expansion teams in Houston (the then Houston Colt .45s), a Continental 
League city without an existing Major League Baseball team. Though the 
AL placed one of its expansion teams (the Washington Senators) in a previously 
existing Major League Baseball city (Washington, D.C.), this was done to 
replace the original Senators team, which had relocated to Minneapolis–St. 
Paul and became the Minnesota Twins. Like Houston, the Twin Cities of Minneapolis/St. 
Paul were a Continental League city without an existing Major League Baseball 
team. The NL then placed another expansion team in New York, offering its 
tenth franchise to the owners of the Continental League New York team, 
who immediately accepted, effectively killing any attempt to revive the 
proposed league. This franchise would become the New York Mets. The AL 
then followed by placing a second expansion team in Los Angeles, the Angels, 
giving the American League its first presence on the West Coast. With Shea's 
mission to bring a second Major League Baseball team to New York successful, 
he stopped championing the Continental League's formation. The promise 
of expansion achieved the owners' desired effect; on August 2, 1960, the 
Continental League formally disbanded. At the time it was reported that 
four Continental League cities would get major league teams—two in the 
American League, New York, and one other in the National League, possibly 
as early as the 1961 season. As it turned out, only three of those cities 
gained Major League Baseball franchises in the immediate aftermath of the 
Continental League's demise (Houston, Minneapolis–St. Paul and New York). 
Although baseball historians concur that Major League Baseball expansion 
would inevitably have happened due to such factors as pressure from Congress 
and the rapid growth of professional football, the Continental League undoubtedly 
forced MLB to hasten expansion by several years. Although Major League 
Baseball had succeeded in preventing the launch of an eight-team CL, it 
only did so by committing to eventually adding eight franchises of its 
own. MLB finished honoring this commitment in 1969 when the AL and NL would 
each add two more teams for a total of eight over the course of the decade, 
thereby matching the total number of new teams envisioned by the Continental 
League. Although William Shea's efforts to create a third major league 
are not well known today, Shea Stadium, home of the New York Mets from 
1964–2008, was named in his honor for his efforts in bringing National 
League baseball back to New York. Of the eight proposed Continental League 
cities, all but one would eventually receive relocated or expansion Major 
League Baseball franchises – Minneapolis–St. Paul in 1961, Houston and 
New York in 1962, Atlanta in 1966, Dallas/Ft. Worth in 1972, Toronto in 
1977, and Denver in 1993. Buffalo, although it made efforts to lure an 
MLB team to then-new Pilot Field in the early 1990s, has not succeeded 
in bringing Major League Baseball back. (There had been a major league 
team in Buffalo in the nineteenth century.) Buffalo remains home to the 
