The contact play is a base running play in the sport of baseball. It usually 
refers to a runner on third base breaking for home (but occasionally refers 
to a runner at second base breaking for third). Similar to the safety-squeeze 
play, the runner at third breaks for home as soon as he sees that the batted 
ball is on a downward plane for a ground ball. If there is a runner at 
second base, he will also break for third if the batted ball is on the 
first base side of second. The play can backfire if the ball is hit directly 
at the third baseman or the pitcher as a putout will naturally be made 
at home plate to prevent the run from scoring. In this situation, the baserunner 
may freeze and return to third. At this point the runner at third's objective 
changes from scoring to getting in a rundown in order to provide an opportunity 
for the batter to end up at second base. The main advantage to breaking 
for home on contact is that it reduces the amount of time an infielder 
will have to make a play at home and, thus, increases the likelihood of 
the runner scoring. A secondary advantage is that the possibility of a 
contact play will often cause the defensive infielders to "play in," meaning 
closer to home plate, giving them less time to react to a hit ball and 
a greater likelihood of not being able to field it cleanly. The contact 
play is normally used when there is one out. With no outs, it is generally 
considered best not to risk being thrown out at home, since there will 
still be two more opportunities for later batters to drive in the runner. 
The only exception is when there is also a runner at first, since any ball 
fielded quickly enough to throw out the runner trying to score is also 
likely to be an easy double play ball, and the team has a much higher run 
expectation that inning if the result of the play is an out at home and 
runners on first and second than if the result is two outs and a runner 
at third. With two outs, all runners on base automatically break on contact, 
since there is no point in staying at their base while the fielder gets 
the final out of the inning by throwing to first base. Most students of 
Sabermetrics believe the contact play is proper strategy whenever there 
is a man on third and one out, since the loss from failure is tiny. Using 
standard tables of run expectation based on the number of outs and runners 
on base (such as Sabremetrics 101: Run Expectancy Matrix, 1999–2002), the 
difference between having a runner on third with two outs (the usual result 
of not using the contact play on a typical ground ball out) and having 
a runner on second with two outs (the usual result of using the contact 
play and having the breaking runner caught in a rundown) is only 0.043 
runs. When the contact play scores a runner who otherwise would still be 
at third while an out is recorded at first, the net gain is 0.730. Put 
another way, even if the contact play failed 16 times for every one time 
it succeeded, it would improve a team's run scoring overall. Even that 
understates the advantage, since the need for the defense to play in often 
results in both the runner scoring and the batter reaching base safely, 
in which case the net benefit is 1.186 runs, which means that it could 
fail 27 times as often as it helped and still benefit the team overall. 
