The Continental Football League (CFL) was a professional American football 
league that operated in North America from 1965 through 1969. It was established 
following the collapse of the original United Football League, and hoped 
to become the major force in professional football outside of the National 
Football League (NFL) and the American Football League (AFL). It owed its 
name, at least in part, to the Continental League, a proposed third Major 
League Baseball organization that influenced MLB significantly. Bill Walsh, 
Ken Stabler, Sam Wyche and Otis Sistrunk were among a few players and coaches 
who would later gain fame in the NFL. The formation of the Continental 
Football League (CFL) was announced on February 6, 1965. The league was 
primarily formed by minor-league teams that had played in the United Football 
League and Atlantic Coast Football League.[1] A.B. "Happy" Chandler, former 
Kentucky governor and retired Major League Baseball commissioner, was named 
CFL commissioner on March 17, 1965. The league originally adopted a "professional" 
appearance. Teams were sorted into two divisions and each team had a 36-man 
roster with a five-man "taxi" squad. The rules were primarily those of 
the NFL except that a "sudden death" overtime period was employed to break 
ties. To reinforce an image of league autonomy, teams were restricted from 
loaning players to, or receiving optioned players from, the NFL or AFL. 
The first CFL season opened with three games played on August 14, 1965. 
Before the season began, the Springfield, Massachusetts, franchise moved 
to Norfolk, Virginia. The Norfolk club went on to become the most successful 
team in the league at the box office and held several minor league attendance 
records throughout the 1960s and 1970s. In 1966, the league began abandoning 
the "league autonomy" posture by striving to establish working relationships 
with NFL and AFL clubs. Chandler, charging that the league was altering 
the terms under which he had accepted the position, resigned on January 
20, 1966. He was replaced by CFL Secretary Sol Rosen, owner of the Newark 
Bears. The league engaged in some unsuccessful preseason negotiations with 
the Empire Sports Network to obtain a television broadcasting agreement. 
However, it was able to get ABC to broadcast the championship game on the 
Wide World of Sports; ABC paid the league $500 for the rights to the game.[2] 
The Brooklyn Dodgers, although under the general managership of baseball 
Dodgers player Jackie Robinson,[3] failed to attract at the gate. Part 
of the problem was that they were playing nowhere near Brooklyn: their 
home games were at Downing Stadium on Randall's Island. Evidently, the 
Dodgers had trouble securing home dates at Downing; a season-ticket application 
showed only five home games[4] in a fourteen-game schedule. In any event, 
small crowds (only 29,500 combined for four games, including 12,000 for 
an exhibition contest) caused the franchise to become a league-operated 
"road club" in October; one home game against Hartford was moved to Connecticut, 
and their final "home" contest was shifted to Memorial Stadium in Mount 
Vernon, New York.[5] Charleston's Coy Bacon, 1966 CFL All-Star end, went 
on to play for the NFL's Los Angeles Rams, San Diego Chargers, Cincinnati 
Bengals and Washington Redskins. The league also established farm team 
relationships with semi-pro clubs (for instance, the Dodgers affiliated 
with the Liberty Football Conference's Long Island Jets in 1966).[6] EASTERN 
DIVISION WESTERN DIVISION The CFL added a Western Division for the 1967 
season. The division comprised established minor-league teams in British 
Columbia, California, Oregon and Washington. But four small western franchises, 
in Eugene, Oregon, Long Beach and San Jose, California and Victoria, B.C., 
left the league after the season. The Toronto Rifles actually folded midseason, 
under unusual circumstances: the Toronto Argonauts of the Canadian Football 
League raided the Rifles roster and signed away the Rifles head coach, 
starting quarterback and starting running back, leaving the team unable 
to continue. The remnants of the Brooklyn Dodgers were sold to Frank Hurn, 
who moved the team to Akron, Ohio as the Akron Vulcans. Hurn used Chicago 
Outfit funding to buy the team and swindled numerous businessmen into providing 
lavish benefits for his team for which he would never pay. Under Hurn, 
the team lost $100,000 after just three weeks of play, forcing his big-budget 
head coaches, Doak Walker and Lou Rymkus, to front their own money to keep 
the team afloat; Hurn never paid the players for their services, and the 
Wheeling Ironmen ended up paying the Vulcans' salaries for what would be 
the Vulcans' fourth and final game in order to avoid a strike. Hurn would 
later amass a long track record of criminal activity after his time in 
Akron.[7] Such instability marked the season for the CFL, particularly 
because the league could not improve upon its overall "semi-pro" public 
image. Inability to establish working relationships with NFL and AFL teams 
was a contributing factor. The league's breakthrough television contract 
with the upstart United Network was another: the network ended up folding 
prior to the 1967 season, leaving the CFL without a television partner 
yet again.[2][8][9] The San Jose Apaches in 1967 were coached by Bill Walsh, 
who later achieved great success as the three-time Super Bowl-winning coach 
of the NFL's San Francisco 49ers. In February 1968, the CFL merged with 
the Professional Football League of America (PFLA), in order to expand 
into the midwestern United States.[10] The Quad Cities franchise moved 
to Las Vegas midway through the 1968 season. Danny Hill succeeded Rosen 
as CFL commissioner. Hill established a weekly payroll ceiling of $200 
per player and $5,000 per team. The Spokane Shockers started the 1968 season 
with a young quarterback named Ken Stabler, who later achieved great success 
with the Oakland Raiders of the NFL. The Michigan Arrows began their season 
with a soccer-style kicker named Garo Yepremian, who later found Super 
Bowl fame in the NFL as a member of the Miami Dolphins. The Orange County 
Ramblers were featured in the 1968 film Skidoo, in a credited role as stand-ins 
for a nude Green Bay Packers team. The Ramblers offense is seen, from behind, 
wearing nothing but helmets, during a scene in which a security guard is 
hallucinating due to the effects of LSD. Jim Dunn replaced Hill as league 
commissioner for the 1969 season. The league expanded into Texas by absorbing 
the Texas Football League, which also brought the first and, to date, only 
team from Mexico to play in a professional American football league, the 
Mexico Golden Aztecs (whose owner, Red McCombs, would later buy the NFL's 
Minnesota Vikings). Midway through the season, the Hawaii franchise moved 
to Portland, Oregon. The CFL entered the 1969 season with high hopes. That 
optimism was exemplified by the Orlando Panthers' bidding for the services 
of the 1968 Heisman Trophy winner, halfback O.J. Simpson of the University 
of Southern California (USC). The Panthers made an offer of $400,000 (nearly 
double the entire team's salary) for Simpson to play for the Panthers if 
his negotiations with the Buffalo Bills fell through; they did not, and 
Simpson signed with Buffalo for the 1969 season.[11] But CFL attendance 
averaged approximately 5,700 spectators per game (the top attended team, 
Norfolk, had 13,000), insufficient to offset the lack of a TV contract. 
These economics contributed to the ultimate demise of the league after 
the 1969 season. Plans for an interleague exhibition between the CFL champion 
Capitols and the Canadian Football League champion Ottawa Rough Riders 
had been laid, but the Rough Riders backed out. The Alabama Hawks played 
a pre-season game against the NFL's Atlanta Falcons rookies, losing 55–0. 
The Indianapolis Capitols featured a rookie quarterback named Johnnie Walton 
during the 1969 season. Walton would become a regular in second-tier professional 
football; after several failed attempts to get onto an NFL roster in the 
early 1970s, Walton got his break in the World Football League, starting 
for the San Antonio Wings in 1975. Walton would spend the 1976–79 seasons 
as an NFL backup, then came out of retirement in 1983 to lead the Boston 
Breakers of the United States Football League. CFL's alum Don Jonas didn't 
reach the NFL, but instead chose to play in Canada after the 1969 season. 
As Orlando Panthers quarterback, he played four seasons before joining 
the Winnipeg Blue Bombers of the Canadian Football League (CFL). Jonas 
led Orlando to the 1967 and 1968 CFL championships, and was named the league's 
Most Valuable Player for each season. He also paced the Panthers to the 
1966 championship game, which they lost to Philadelphia in overtime; and 
to the CFL semifinal game in 1969. Don was inducted into the American Football 
Association's Semi Pro Hall of Fame in 1983. A number of franchises folded 
or defected during and after the conclusion of the 1969 season, making 
the end of the CFL all but inevitable. On March 10, 1970, CFL commissioner 
James Dunn announced his resignation effective the end of that month.[19] 
No replacement was ever found. San Antonio and Fort Worth planned on launching 
a Trans-American Football League in 1970.[20] There had been intentions 
for Spokane, Portland, Seattle and Sacramento to play a West Coast circuit 
for 1970 under the Continental League banner, but by August 1970, teams 
had gone silent about the prospects of a 1970 season. The league apparently 
never made an official announcement of its cessation of operations.[21] 
