As player As manager Octavio Víctor "Cookie" Rojas Rivas (born March 6, 
1939) is a Cuban former professional baseball player, coach, and manager. 
He is currently a television sports commentator. He played in Major League 
Baseball as a second baseman and outfielder for the Cincinnati Reds, Philadelphia 
Phillies, St. Louis Cardinals, and Kansas City Royals. Listed at 5' 10" 
(1.78), 160 lb (73 k), A five-time All-Star player, Rojas batted and threw 
right handed. He is the Miami Marlins' Spanish-language TV color commentator. 
Playing baseball over the objections of his father, who wanted him to be 
a doctor, Rojas signed his first professional baseball contract with the 
Cincinnati Reds as a 17-year-old amateur free agent prior to the start 
of the 1956 season.[1][2] Rojas was then assigned to Cincinnati's D-level 
team, the West Palm Beach Sun Chiefs in the Florida State League.[3] From 
1957 to 1959, Rojas would make steady progress through the Reds' minor 
league system, playing for the Wausau Lumberjacks in the C-level Northern 
League in 1957, the Savannah Redlegs in the Single A South Atlantic League 
in 1958, before coming home and playing for the Havana Sugar Kings in the 
AAA International League. His advancement through the system was steady 
despite his batting average falling every year between 1956 and 1960, finally 
bottoming out at .225. Although he possessed an above-average glove, the 
Reds were not sure he'd ever hit enough to play regularly in the majors. 
Consequently, he would spend the next three seasons at AAA, playing for 
Havana and the Jersey City Jerseys, where he would continue to struggle 
with his bat while being blocked in the majors by superior Reds' second 
basemen in All Stars Johnny Temple, Billy Martin, and Don Blasingame. Rojas 
would finally go north with the Reds at the beginning of the 1962 season 
and would make his major league debut on April 10. However he would continue 
to show little at the plate, hitting .221 with only 2 extra base hits in 
78 at bats, and would be sent down to the AAA Dallas-Fort Worth Rangers 
for the remainder of the season. After the 1962 season, Rojas was traded 
to the Philadelphia Phillies for relief pitcher Jim Owens. Although the 
Phillies already had an All-Star second baseman in fellow Cuban Tony Taylor, 
Rojas had seen the last of the minor leagues and would man second in 27 
games in 1963. Although he became the regular Phillies second baseman in 
1965,[4] Rojas would go on to play at every fielding position, including 
catcher and pitcher, but would see the bulk of his playing time in the 
outfield and shortstop in addition to second base. Getting more playing 
time helped improve his batting, as Rojas hit .291 in 1964 and a career-high 
.303 in 1965, when he was named to his first All-Star team. As a Phillie, 
Rojas teamed with shortstop Bobby Wine in a stellar double-play combination 
that media and fans began to refer as “The Plays of Wine and Rojas,” a 
takeoff of the song, The Days of Wine and Roses.[5] Following the 1969 
season in which Rojas hit only .228 and hot prospect Denny Doyle tore through 
AAA with a .310 average, the Phillies decided to include him in the blockbuster 
trade that sent slugging first baseman Dick Allen and right-handed pitcher 
Jerry Johnson to the St. Louis Cardinals for centerfielder Curt Flood, 
catcher Tim McCarver, outfielder Byron Browne, and left-handed pitcher 
Joe Hoerner, the trade that led ultimately to Major League baseball free 
agency. By the time the Phillies traded Rojas to the Cardinals in 1970, 
it appeared his career might be over, as he was hitting only .106 going 
into the June trading deadline. St. Louis in turn traded him to the Kansas 
City Royals for outfielder/third baseman Fred Rico on June 13. Kansas City, 
a team in only its second year of existence, wanted a veteran presence 
to steady its infield, and in return for the career–minor leaguer Rico, 
the Royals gained a player who would man second base for most of the next 
eight seasons and appear in four consecutive All-Star games from 1971 to 
1974. In April 1970, at least one news report mistakenly said Rojas was 
critically injured in an auto accident. In fact it was former major leaguer 
Minnie Rojas.[6] In the 1972 All-Star Game in Atlanta, he hit a pinch-hit, 
two-run homer in the eighth inning, which was the first time that a non-American-born 
player had ever homered for the American League in the mid-summer classic. 
Though a fan favorite,[7] Rojas lost his job as the Royals' starting second 
baseman to Frank White in 1976, who was much younger than the 37-year-old 
Rojas and both hit and fielded better than Rojas.[8] Remaining with the 
team for two more years, Rojas filled a utility role with the team, playing 
at first, second and third base, and designated hitter. After being released 
by the team after the 1977 season, Rojas spent 1978 on the sidelines. Despite 
signing with the Chicago Cubs on September 1, he did not get into a game 
with the team and retired from baseball. Rojas is currently in second place 
on the Royals all-time list of games played at second base with 789, second 
only to White.[9] After his playing career, Rojas coached and scouted for 
various teams. In 1988, he became only the third Cuban-born manager in 
major-league history when he took the helm of the California Angels, whom 
he had guided to fourth place with a 75–79 record before being replaced 
with Moose Stubing with eight games left in the season (with the Angels 
losing all eight games). In 1996, Rojas managed one game for the Florida 
Marlins after manager Rene Lachemann was fired before John Boles finished 
the season for the Marlins. During the 1999 playoffs, while coaching third 
base for the New York Mets, Rojas was suspended for five games for getting 
into a shoving match with umpire Charlie Williams while arguing a foul 
ball call. Rojas also served as the third base coach during the 2000 season.[10] 
From 2001 to 2002 he was bench coach with the Toronto Blue Jays and was 
unofficial manager for 3 games in 2001. For the 2002 season, Rojas was 
third base coach for the Toronto Blue Jays. Rojas' youngest son, Victor, 
is a play-by-play announcer for the Los Angeles Angels. His oldest son, 
Mike, is the bullpen coach for the Seattle Mariners. Currently, Cookie 
Rojas serves as the Marlins' Spanish television announcer (SAP). Rojas 
also serves as a member of the board of the Baseball Assistance Team, a 
501(c)(3) non-profit organization dedicated to helping former Major League, 
Minor League, and Negro League players through financial and medical hardships. 
In 2011, he was inducted into the Hispanic Heritage Baseball Museum Hall 
