James Thomas "Cool Papa" Bell (May 17, 1903 – March 7, 1991) was an American 
center fielder in Negro league baseball from 1922 to 1946. He is considered 
by many baseball observers to have been one of the fastest men ever to 
play the game. Stories demonstrating Bell's speed are still widely circulated. 
He was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1974. He ranked 66th on 
a list of the greatest baseball players published by The Sporting News 
in 1999. Bell was born May 17, 1903, in Starkville, Mississippi to Jonas 
Bell and Mary Nichols.[1] The 1910 U.S. Census shows him as the fourth 
of seven children living with his widowed mother, Mary Nichols, in Sessums 
Township, just outside Starkville. His brother Fred Bell also played baseball. 
As a teenager, Bell worked at the creamery at what is now Mississippi State 
University and at the school's agricultural experiment station.[1] At the 
age of 17, he moved to St. Louis to live with older brothers and attend 
high school. However, rather than attending night school as planned, Bell 
spent most of his time playing baseball in the neighborhood.[1] He signed 
as a knuckleball pitcher with the Compton Hill Cubs, a black semipro baseball 
team, until the team broke up in August 1921. He played with Compton Hill 
on Sundays and holidays while he worked for a packing company during the 
week. For 1922, Bell moved to the East St. Louis Cubs, a semipro team that 
paid him $20 weekly to pitch on Sundays.[2] Bell joined the St. Louis Stars 
of the Negro National League (NNL) as a pitcher in 1922. Bell earned his 
nickname in his first Negro league season; he was referred to as "Cool" 
after striking out standout player Oscar Charleston and added "Papa" to 
the nickname because it sounded better.[3] At first, Bell made only occasional 
appearances in the outfield. By 1924, at the urging of manager Bill Gatewood, 
Bell began working on his defensive skills and appearing more in the outfield.[4] 
Bell ultimately made a permanent move to center field and stopped pitching. 
Before becoming an outfielder, Bell batted right-handed and threw left-handed. 
His transition to the outfield was aided by learning to bat as a switch 
hitter. When he batted left-handed, his baserunning speed was even more 
problematic for opponents because he was a couple of steps closer to first 
base. Biographer Shaun McCormack points out that Bell did not have a strong 
throwing arm. However, Bell's speed allowed him to play very shallow in 
the outfield and to still catch balls that were hit behind him.[5] Pitchers 
tried to avoid issuing walks to Bell, because he was often able to steal 
both second base and third base, scoring a run on the next play. Bell could 
also sometimes score a run if he was on first base and the batter got a 
base hit.[6] Bell described the style of play on the occasions when the 
Negro league players faced white teams in exhibitions: "We played a different 
kind of baseball than the white teams. We played tricky baseball. We did 
things they didn't expect. We'd bunt and run in the first inning. Then 
when they would come in for a bunt we'd hit away. We always crossed them 
up. We'd run the bases hard and make the fielders throw too quick and make 
wild throws. We'd fake a steal home and rattle the pitcher into a balk."[7] 
Bell led the Stars to league titles in 1928, 1930, and 1931. While with 
the Stars, he played alongside close friend and shortstop Willie Wells 
and first baseman Mule Suttles.[8] He moved to the Detroit Wolves of the 
East-West League when the NNL disbanded. The Wolves were owned by former 
Negro league star Cumberland Posey and they jumped to a first-place lead 
with a 29-13 win-loss record before the league disbanded. Attendance figures 
had remained too low in the wake of the Great Depression.[9] Bell bounced 
to the Kansas City Monarchs and the Mexican winter leagues until finding 
a home with the Pittsburgh Crawfords in the reorganized NNL. In Pittsburgh, 
he played with Ted Page and Jimmie Crutchfield to form what is considered 
by many to have been the best outfield in the Negro leagues. On the 1936 
Crawfords team, Bell was one of six players who were subsequently inducted 
into the Baseball Hall of Fame.[10] Bell left the Crawfords in 1937 when 
owner Gus Greenlee defaulted on player salaries. Bell, Satchel Paige and 
other Crawfords players went to the Dominican Republic to play on a team 
assembled by dictator Rafael Trujillo. Trujillo felt that a baseball championship 
would strengthen his ruling power and he kept the players under armed supervision.[11] 
Outside of Negro league players, the club featured Puerto Rican star Petrucho 
Cepeda, father of future Major League Baseball (MLB) Hall of Famer Orlando 
Cepeda. They were led by Cuban manager Lázaro Salazar, who was later elected 
to the Cuban Baseball Hall of Fame.[12] While playing for Trujillo, the 
team members began to fear that losing might threaten their lives. Author 
Mark Ribowsky describes an experience with the team that was related to 
him by Crutchfield. After one loss, the players were said to have been 
met at the hotel by an Army officer who warned the team not to lose again, 
firing gunshots at the walls of the hotel courtyard. Bell was said to have 
been crying and wanting to leave the Dominican Republic. One of the Cubans 
on the team later denied any incidents involving gunfire, and Ribowsky 
points out that even Paige's detailed writings never mentioned actual gunfire.[12] 
Ultimately, the team won the league championship, finishing ahead of two 
other clubs by four games or less. The second-place team featured several 
Negro league players, Cuban star Luis Tiant, Sr. and manager Martin Dihigo, 
a future Hall of Famer. The third-place club was intentionally composed 
of mostly Dominican players and only two Negro leaguers were on its roster. 
Trujillo was disappointed that a $30,000 team of Americans had barely beaten 
the competition, so his league was disbanded the next year and no organized 
baseball was played in the Dominican Republic for 12 years.[12] Bell went 
to the Mexican League, which was integrated, between 1938 and 1941. He 
spent the first two seasons with the team in Tampico, hitting for batting 
averages of .356 and .354. He split the 1940 season between teams in Torreón 
and Veracruz.[13] In that season, Bell became the first Mexican League 
player to win the Triple Crown, leading the league with a .437 batting 
average, 12 home runs, and 79 runs batted in. He finished that year with 
167 hits and eight of his home runs were inside-the-park home runs.[14] 
Veracruz won the pennnant that year. He spent his last Mexican League season 
in Monterrey. His career Mexican League batting average came to .367.[13] 
Bell came back to the United States in 1942 to play for the Chicago American 
Giants of the Negro American League. He joined the Homestead Grays in the 
NNL in 1943. The Grays won league championships in Bell's first two seasons. 
In an attempt at a third consecutive title in 1945, the Grays lost in the 
league's World Series. The 43-year-old hit .396 for the 1946 Grays. Bell 
became a player-manager for Negro league farm teams until 1950. He finished 
his Negro league career with a .341 batting average; he hit .391 in exhibitions 
against MLB players. Bell was a part-time scout for the St. Louis Browns 
from 1951 to 1954, when the team moved to Baltimore.[13] Though statistics 
were not meticulously maintained for most of Bell's career, it is clear 
that he was known as one of the best players in Negro league baseball. 
As Paige noted in his autobiography, Maybe I'll Pitch Forever, "If schools 
had known Cool Papa was around and if Cool Papa had known reading real 
good, he'd have made the best track man you ever saw."[15] Anecdotes about 
Bell's speed are still widely circulated; some are not easily believable, 
while others are thought to be true. Paige liked to reference a story from 
one hotel at which he and Bell stayed. There was a short delay between 
flipping the light switch off and the lights actually going off due to 
faulty wiring, sufficient for Bell to jump into bed in the interim. Leaving 
out the explanatory details, Paige liked to say that Bell was so fast he 
could turn off the light and be under the covers before the room got dark. 
Legend also holds that Bell hit a ball up the middle of the field and that 
he was struck by the ball as he slid into second base.[16] In Ken Burns' 
Baseball, Bell was described as being so fast that he once scored from 
first on a sacrifice bunt. In an exhibition game against white all-stars, 
Bell is said to have broken for second on a bunt and run with Paige at 
the plate. By the time the ball reached Paige, Bell was almost to second 
and rounded the bag, seeing the third baseman had broken towards home to 
field the bunt. The catcher, Roy Partee of the Boston Red Sox, ran to third 
to cover the bag and an anticipated return throw from first. To his surprise, 
Bell rounded third and brushed by him on the way home; pitcher Murry Dickson 
of the St. Louis Cardinals had not thought to cover home with the catcher 
moving up the line, and Bell scored standing up.[17] Bell once circled 
the bases in 13.1 seconds on a soggy field in Chicago; he claimed that 
he had done it in as few as 12 seconds in dry conditions.[16] Teammate 
Ted Page commented on the clean off-the-field lifestyle that Bell lived. 
He said that Bell was "an even better man off the field than he was on 
it. He was honest. He was kind. He was a clean liver. In fact, in all of 
the years I've known him, I've never seen him smoke, take a drink or even 
say one cuss word."[18] After Bell's playing and managing days were over, 
Bell lived in an old red-brick apartment in St. Louis.[1] He worked as 
a scout for the St. Louis Browns for four years,[3] then he served as a 
security officer and custodian at St. Louis City Hall until 1970.[19] He 
was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1974. His Hall of Fame plaque 
highlights the fact that Bell's contemporaries regarded him as the fastest 
runner on the base paths.[10] He was the fifth Negro league player inducted 
into the Hall of Fame.[1] Negro league players Satchel Paige, Josh Gibson, 
Monte Irvin and Buck Leonard were inducted between 1971 and 1973.[20] Bell 
suffered a heart attack and he died at Saint Louis University Hospital 
on March 7, 1991; his wife Clara had died a few weeks earlier.[21] In his 
honor, Dickson Street, on which he lived, was renamed James "Cool Papa" 
Bell Avenue. He was also inducted into the St. Louis Walk of Fame.[22] 
Cool Papa Bell Drive is the road leading into the Mississippi Sports Hall 
of Fame and Museum in Jackson, of which he is a member. The St. Louis Cardinals 
have recognized Bell's contributions by erecting a bronze statue of him 
outside Busch Stadium along with other Hall of Fame St. Louis baseball 
stars, including Stan Musial, Lou Brock and Bob Gibson. References to Bell 
appeared in Hanging Curve by Troy Soos, a 1999 novel about the Ku Klux 
Klan in the 1920s. He was also noted in the 1994 movie Cobb, in which Ty 
Cobb, played by Tommy Lee Jones, is chided for being a lesser player than 
Bell. His character makes a brief appearance in the 2009 feature film The 
Perfect Game, encouraging and aiding the 1957 Little League World Series 
champion team from Monterrey, Mexico; the role is played by Lou Gossett 
Jr.[23] In 1999, Bell was ranked 66th on The Sporting News list of Baseball's 
Greatest Players,[24] one of five players so honored who played all or 
most of his career in the Negro leagues, and was named to the Major League 
Baseball All-Century Team.[25] He is the subject of the song "Cool Papa 
Bell" on Paul Simon's 13th studio album Stranger to Stranger. McCormack, 
