Cooperstown is a village in and county seat of Otsego County, New York, 
United States.[1] Most of the village lies within the town of Otsego, but 
some of the eastern part is in the town of Middlefield. Cooperstown is 
best known as the home of the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum, 
opened in 1939, which is commonly referred to as "Cooperstown". The Farmers' 
Museum, the Fenimore Art Museum, Glimmerglass Opera, and the New York State 
Historical Association are also based here. Most of the historic pre-1900 
core of the village is included in the Cooperstown Historic District, which 
was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1980; its boundaries 
were increased in 1997 and more contributing properties were identified. 
The population of the village was 1,852 as of the 2010 census. The village 
was developed within part of the Cooper Patent, which William Cooper – 
who later became a county judge – purchased in 1785 from Colonel George 
Croghan, former Deputy to Sir William Johnson, British Superintendent of 
Indian Affairs of the Northern District. The land amounted to 10,000 acres 
(40 km2). William Cooper founded a village on Otsego Lake. His son James 
Fenimore Cooper grew up in the frontier town. He later became a noted American 
author with The Leatherstocking Tales, a series of historical novels that 
includes The Last of the Mohicans. Cooper established the village of Cooperstown 
in 1786, laid out by surveyor William Ellison. At the time, the area was 
part of Montgomery County. It was incorporated as the "Village of Otsego" 
on April 3, 1807. The name was changed to "Village of Cooperstown" in 1812 
after the founder.[citation needed] Cooper was appointed as a county judge 
in the late 18th century, and was elected to the state assembly from Otsego 
County. Cooperstown is one of only twelve villages in New York still incorporated 
under a charter, the other villages having incorporated or re-incorporated 
under the provisions of Village Law.[2] According to the United States 
Census Bureau, the village has a total area of 1.6 square miles (4.1 km2), 
of which 1.5 square miles (3.9 km2) is land and 0.04 square miles (0.10 km2) 
(2.53%) is water. The source of the Susquehanna River is in Cooperstown 
at the outlet of Otsego Lake. Blackbird Bay of Otsego Lake is north of 
the village. The junction of New York State Route 28 and New York State 
Route 80 was constructed at Cooperstown. The village is also served by 
County Routes 31 and 33. Climate Cooperstown has a humid continental climate, 
with cold, very snowy winters, warm summers, and abundant precipitation 
year-round. Freezing temperatures have been observed in every month of 
the year, except for July. The record low temperature is −34 °F (−37 °C), 
set on February 9, 1934, and the record high temperature is 99 °F (37 °C), 
set on July 9 and 10, 1936.[3] As of the census[7] of 2000, there were 
2,032 people, 906 households, and 479 families residing in the village. 
The population density was 1,317.5 people per square mile (509.5/km²). 
There were 1,070 housing units at an average density of 693.8 per square 
mile (268.3/km²). The racial makeup of the village was 96.21% White, 0.94% 
African American, 0.10% Native American, 1.62% Asian, 0.34% from other 
races, and 0.79% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race 
were 2.31% of the population. There were 906 households out of which 23.2% 
had children under the age of 18 living with them, 41.9% were married couples 
living together, 8.7% had a female householder with no husband present, 
and 47.1% were non-families. 41.4% of all households were made up of individuals 
and 19.2% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The 
average household size was 2.05 and the average family size was 2.83. In 
the village the population was spread out with 20.2% under the age of 18, 
5.4% from 18 to 24, 24.7% from 25 to 44, 22.8% from 45 to 64, and 26.9% 
who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 45 years. For every 
100 females there were 81.4 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, 
there were 76.8 males. The median income for a household in the village 
was $36,992, and the median income for a family was $50,250. Males had 
a median income of $39,625 versus $20,595 for females. The per capita income 
for the village was $26,799. About 5.0% of families and 10.2% of the population 
were below the poverty line, including 7.5% of those under age 18 and 5.4% 
of those age 65 or over. Notable historic year-round or summer residents 
of Cooperstown included: Aside from James Fenimore Cooper, noted Cooperstown 
authors include his daughter Susan Fenimore Cooper, the author of Rural 
Hours, and his great-great-grandson Paul Fenimore Cooper, author of Tal: 
His Marvelous Adventures with Noom-Zor-Noom (1929, 1957, 2001). Other writers 
include the prolific poet W. W. Lord, who captured Cooperstown in many 
of his poems, as well as modern author Lauren Groff, who has written extensively 
about her hometown, notably in The Monsters of Templeton., a story that 
brings several Cooperstown legends to life. The work of Cooperstown-based 
novelist and poet Marly Youmans has referred to the area, notably in her 
epic poem Thaliad (2012), in which a group of child survivors of an apocalypse 
travel north and make their new home in an abandoned village on the shore 
of Glimmerglass Lake.[8]'[9][10] The Clark family, whose fortune originated 
with a half-ownership of the patent for Singer Sewing Machine, have lived 
in Cooperstown since the mid-19th century. The family's holdings include 
interests assembled over a century and a half, which are now held through 
trusts and foundations. Their dominance is reflected in Clark ownership 
of more than 10,000 acres (40 km2) of largely undeveloped land in and around 
greater Cooperstown. In the village, the Otesaga, the Cooper Inn, Clark 
Estates, and the Clara Welch Thanksgiving Home are all Clark properties. 
In addition, the Clarks were founding partners of, and retain an interest 
in, the Baseball Hall of Fame and the Mary Imogene Bassett Hospital. Cooperstown 
still receives support from the Clark Foundation, which has donated to 
a variety of causes including various scholarships, non-profit organizations, 
and village services. The family has also donated land for the Cooperstown 
Central School District's new high school location − formerly horse stables 
− as well as for parks such as Fairy Springs and Council Rock, and recently, 
for a new Little League baseball field. Jane Forbes Clark II,[11] the primary 
family heir today, has continued this commitment. She has purchased strategic 
land to ensure the preservation of village entry points, as well as overseeing 
the expansion of the various Clark holdings. In late November 2013, Clark 
discussed her family's continued support for the community during a meeting 
of The Women’s Club of Cooperstown.[12] The Clark Foundation supports a 
variety of Cooperstown and Otsego County organizations and causes with 
donations of $7.5 million to charitable organizations every year. The family's 
Scriven Foundation, formed in 1975, donates only to Otsego County nonprofit 
organizations, such as the Cooperstown Village Library. The Scriven Foundation 
donates $1.5 million every year. According to Clark's presentation, the 
family's businesses employ 4,198 people, with 3,100 of those positions 
being full-time jobs.[12] The town's schools are located in two buildings. 
The elementary school is located at 21 Walnut Street. It was built in the 
1940s, and was designed with a bomb shelter in the basement. The junior/senior 
high school was built c.1960 at 39 Linden Avenue, on land donated by the 
Clark family. The school district offices are located in the high school 
building Cooperstown is best known as the home of the National Baseball 
Hall of Fame and Museum, which was founded in 1939 by Stephen Carlton Clark. 
According to an interview conducted in 1906 by the Mills Commission, nearby 
resident Abner Graves attributed the game's invention to his deceased friend, 
Abner Doubleday. Graves stated that Doubleday invented baseball on a cow 
pasture within the village in 1839, the present site of Doubleday Field, 
but this claim is universally discounted by baseball historians. Even so, 
as the site of the Hall of Fame, Cooperstown retains a close connection 
with the baseball world, and "Cooperstown" had become synonymous with the 
Hall. Several nationally recognized tournaments are held in the area. Cooperstown 
Dreams Park in nearby Hartwick Seminary hosts 104 level U12 teams for weekly 
tournaments in the summer. Several professionals, including David Price 
and Matt Garza, have attended CDP. In 2010, Cooperstown got an official 
baseball team of its own, the Cooperstown Hawkeyes, a collegiate league 
team who play against many other teams from the northeast during the summer, 
with home games played at historic Doubleday Field.[13] Other attractions 
include the Farmers' Museum, the Fenimore Art Museum, The New York State 
Historical Association's (NYSHA) library, Brewery Ommegang, and the Clark 
Sports Center, a large fitness facility, where the annual Hall of Fame 
Induction is held. Once known as the "Village of Museums", until the 1970s 
Cooperstown also boasted the Indian Museum (adjacent to Lakefront Park), 
The Carriage and Harness Museum (displaying a world-class collection primarily 
from F. Ambrose Clark's estate; now the Bassett Hospital offices on Elk 
Street), and The Woodland Museum near Three Mile Point. The latter, opened 
in 1962 by heirs to the Anheuser-Busch company, folded in 1974. It ran 
a close third in annual attendance to the Hall of Fame and Farmers' Museum. 
The internationally noted Glimmerglass Opera is closely associated with 
Cooperstown. Founded in 1975, the company originally performed in the Cooperstown 
High School auditorium. In 1987, the company relocated to farmland donated 
by Tom Goodyear of the Cary Mede Estate 8 miles (13 km) north of the village, 
where the Alice Busch Opera Theater was built, the first new opera-specific 
hall in the United States built since 1966. It has a popular summer season 
with a reputation for producing high quality opera and commissioning new 
works. The Cooperstown Historic District, Glimmerglass Historic District, 
Middlefield District No. 1 School, Otsego County Courthouse, and United 
States Post Office are listed on the National Register of Historic Places.[14] 
Superficially, the downtown commercial district looks not unlike it did 
in the 1970s. It has undergone significant change since the late 20th century. 
Through the 1970s, Main Street was still home to no fewer than five grocery 
stores, including an A&P. Western Auto had a branch on Main Street and 
J.J. Newberry's had a two-story five-and-dime with a food counter. Smalley's, 
a movie theater which was originally a stage theater, had a single screen 
across from a Farm & Home store. With its post office, library, and the 
Baseball Hall of Fame, Main Street resembled a true village square. Today, 
the village has fewer traditional services for year-round and seasonal 
residents. Once boasting half a dozen gas stations, the village now has 
two. Traditional grocers have been reduced to one, and in 1977 Great American 
was built on the outskirts of town, replacing the town's bowling alley. 
In 2010 it was converted to a Price Chopper. Hardware stores such as Western 
Auto, McGown's and Farm & Home have been displaced by an Ace Hardware just 
outside the village. Newberry's has become a single-floor general store 
with the basement stairs boarded up. Sherry's Famous Restaurant closed 
in the late 1990s after more than half a century of business. Most Main 
Street shops now cater to the tourist trade and feature gifts and souvenirs. 
The Cooperstown Chamber of Commerce, established in 1917, looks to develop 
business and trade in the Cooperstown region. Serving also as a visitor 
center in its main office, the Chamber also manages a seasonal kiosk on 
the corner of Main and Pioneer St for tourists. Cooperstown was formerly 
served by the Cooperstown Municipal Airport, which was a two-runway facility 
fewer than two miles to the northwest of town center. That field closed 
in the 1960s. The village is now served by a small grass field in nearby 
Westville and a one-runway facility in Oneonta NY. There are, and were, 
significant residential, commercial and religious structures in Cooperstown. 
Original residences related to the founding Cooper family, such as Edgewater 
and Heathcote, are still standing. Otsego Hall, James Fenimore Cooper's 
residence which once stood in what is now Cooper Park, has been lost, along 
with his chalet. Byberry, the cottage built for his daughter, remains on 
River Street, albeit in altered form. "Fynmere", a grand stone manor from 
the early 20th century, erected by Cooper heirs on the eastern edge of 
town, was designed by noted architect Charles A. Platt. Later donated to 
the Presbyterian Church as a retirement home, the property was razed in 
1979. Both its grounds and those of neighboring property Heathcote (extant 
today), built for Katherine Guy Cooper (1895–1988), daughter-in-law of 
James Fenimore Cooper III, were laid out by noted landscape architect Ellen 
Biddle Shipman. Residences, business, and properties related to the Clark 
family abound within the village. From the original family seat of "Fernleigh" 
to the 1928 Georgian manor of "West Hill", the properties are exceptionally 
well cared for. Fernleigh is a Second Empire stone mansion designed by 
New Jersey architect James Van Dyke and built in 1869. The original garden 
at Fernleigh, located to the south of the mansion, included a servants' 
house and Turkish bath; both details have since been lost. In 1923, Stephen 
C. Clark, Sr. commissioned Marcus T. Reynolds and Bryant Fleming, a landscape 
design professor at Cornell University, to design new gardens for Fernleigh.[15] 
The manor home of Robert Sterling Clark, Red Creek Farm, remains on the 
outskirts of the Village. His brother F. Ambrose Clark's "Iroquois Farm" 
manor house was razed in the early 1980s. Also razed in 1979 was the Mohican 
Farms manor house, owned by the Clark Estates, in Springfield Center, New 
York. It was formerly the summer home of the Spaulding sporting good family 
from Buffalo. Edward Severin Clark built a farm complex at Fenimore Farm 
in 1918, which has been adapted as the Farmers Museum. His stone manor, 
built in 1931, was bequeathed to the New York State Historical Association 
and today serves as the Fenimore Art Museum. Other structures, such as 
the Baseball Hall of Fame, Otesaga Hotel, Clark Estate Office, Kingfisher 
Tower, which lies on the east side of Lake Otsego, Bassett Hospital, and 
The Clara Welch Thanksgiving Home, exemplify Cooperstown's architectural 
wealth. The Bowers family "Lakelands" manor, neighboring "Mohican Lodge", 
and their former estate of "Willowbrook" (1818; presently the Cooper Inn) 
serve as further examples of grand homes erected by affluent residents. 
The Bowers family received the land patent extending from current-day Bowerstown 
to very near Cherry Valley, New York, upon which Congressman John Myer 
Bowers built Lakelands in 1804. Woodside Hall, on the eastern edge of the 
village proper, was built c. 1829 by Eben B. Morehouse and was subsequently 
owned by several prominent individuals, including, in 1895, financier Walter 
C. Stokes of New York City. Prior to the Stokes' ownership, the home was 
visited by Martin Van Buren, the eighth President of the United States. 
The village offices and Cooperstown Art Association are housed in a neo-classical 
building designed by Ernest Flagg. He is famed for Manhattan's 47-story 
Singer Building and the Boldt Castle on the St. Lawrence River. The Cooperstown 
building was originally commissioned by Elizabeth Scriven Clark in 1898 
as a YMCA. Her son Robert Sterling Clark gave it to the village in 1932 
during the Great Depression. Several prominent buildings in town were designed 
or updated by noted architect Frank P. Whiting, who originally worked under 
Ernest Flagg. A resident of New York City and Cooperstown, Whiting was 
also a noted artist. He designed the Farmers Museum farm buildings[16] 
and the shingle-style manor at "Leatherstocking Falls Farm", the residence 
of Dorothy Stokes Bostwick Smith Campbell, the landscaping for which was 
done by the all-female firm of Wodell & Cottrell in the 1930s.[17] Whiting 
also designed 56 Lake Street. In 1932 Whiting designed and built his residence, 
"Westerly", on a half acre lot at the north end of Nelson Avenue. The home 
is in the Colonial style and today retains many interior and exterior features 
of the original home. In June 1923 Whiting wrote a featured monograph "Cooperstown 
in The Times of Our Forefathers" for volume IX of the White Pine Series 
of Architectural Monographs containing several sketches and measured drawings 
of homes in Cooperstown. In 1916, financier William T. Hyde acquired "Glimmerglen", 
a lakeside property north of Fenimore Farm, from the Constable family.[18] 
The house burned to the ground shortly thereafter and was rebuilt by society 
architect Alfred Hopkins, who also designed a new farm complex, gate house, 
and assorted dependencies. The estate was featured in a multipage advertisement 
in Country Life magazine in late 1922 when the property was put up for 
sale. The manor and greenhouses were razed in the late 1960s after their 
acquisition by the Clark family. The stone gatehouse, featured in the Architectural 
Record is extant today and owned by the Clark Foundation, as is the boathouse 
and the distinctive cottage known as "Winter House". Notes Further reading 
