Coors Field is a baseball park located in downtown Denver, Colorado. It 
is the home field of the Colorado Rockies, the city's Major League Baseball 
(MLB) franchise. It is named for the Coors Brewing Company of Golden, Colorado, 
which purchased the naming rights to the park prior to its completion in 
1995. The Rockies played their first two seasons, 1993 and 1994, in Mile 
High Stadium before moving to Coors Field, two blocks from Union Station 
in Denver's Lower Downtown (or LoDo) neighborhood. The park includes 63 
luxury suites and 4,526 club seats. Coors Field was the first new stadium 
added in a six-year period in which Denver's sports venues were upgraded, 
along with Pepsi Center and Sports Authority Field at Mile High (originally 
sponsored by INVESCO). It was also the first baseball-only park in the 
National League since Dodger Stadium was built in 1962. As with the other 
new venues, Coors Field was constructed with accessibility in mind. It 
sits near Interstate 25 and has direct access to the 20th Street and Park 
Avenue exits. Nearby Union Station also provides light rail access. Coors 
Field was originally planned to be somewhat smaller, seating only 43,800. 
However, after the Rockies drew almost 4.5 million people in their first 
season at Mile High Stadium – the most in baseball history – the plans 
were altered during construction, and new seats in the right field upper 
deck were added. The center field bleacher section is named "The Rockpile". 
During the 1993 and 1994 seasons when the team played at Mile High Stadium, 
which was a hybrid football/baseball venue, the Rockpile was located next 
to the south stands, which were in dead center field and very distant from 
home plate. The same design was incorporated into Coors Field, and is located 
in deep center field up high. The original Rockpile seats cost a dollar 
each. During construction, workers discovered a number of dinosaur fossils 
throughout the grounds, including a 7-foot-long (2.1 m) 1,000-pound (450 kg) 
triceratops skull. Because of this, "Jurassic Park" was one of the first 
names to be considered for the stadium. This later led to the selection 
of a triceratops as the Rockies' mascot, Dinger.[9] Coors Field was the 
first major league park with an underground heating system. While most 
of the seats in Coors Field are dark green, the seats in the 20th row of 
the upper deck are purple to mark the elevation of one mile (1,609 m) above 
sea level. The Blue Moon Brewery at The Sandlot is a microbrewery/restaurant 
that is behind the Right Field Stands, with an entrance from Coors Field, 
and from Blake Street. The brewery is operated by the Coors Brewing Company, 
and experiments with craft beers on a small scale. The Brewery has won 
multiple awards at the Great American Beer Festival in various categories. 
The popular Blue Moon, a Belgian-Style Wheat beer was invented here, and 
is now mass-produced by Coors. The restaurant is housed in a building that 
is attached to the stadium. Coors Field has an extensive selection of food 
items. Selections include Rockie dogs, Denver dogs, vegetarian dogs and 
burgers, and all of the usual ball park items. Behind the center field 
wall is a landscape decoration that reflects the typical environment of 
the Rocky Mountains. This landscape area consists of a waterfall, fountains, 
and pine trees. After a Rockies home run or win, the fountains shoot high 
into the air. The park has two large light emitting diode (LED) video displays 
and one ribbon display in the outfield from Daktronics. The top display, 
underneath the "Rockies" logo, measures 27 by 47 feet (8 m × 14 m). The 
second display measure 33 by 73 feet (10 m × 22 m) and is used to give 
lineups and statistics and as a scoreboard. The field also contains several 
Daktronics ribbon displays, totaling approximately 833 feet (254 m) in 
length.[10] After the close of the 2013 season, renovations began on the 
right field portion of the upper deck, converted into an outdoor party 
deck for 2014.[11] Stadium designers speculated early on that Coors Field 
would give up a lot of home runs. At 5,200 feet (1,580 m) above sea level, 
it is by far the highest park in the majors (Chase Field in Phoenix is 
next at 1,100 feet (340 m)), and designers knew that the low air density 
at such a high elevation would result in balls traveling farther than in 
other parks. To compensate, the outfield fences were placed at an unusually 
far distance from home plate, thus creating the largest outfield in Major 
League Baseball today, according to Business Insider.[12] In spite of the 
pushed-back fences, for many years Coors Field not only gave up the most 
home runs in baseball, but due to the resultant large field area, the most 
doubles and triples as well.[13] In its first decade, the above-average 
number of home runs earned Coors Field a reputation as the most hitter-friendly 
park in Major League Baseball, earning the critical nicknames "Coors Canaveral"[14] 
(a reference to Cape Canaveral, from where NASA launches spacecraft) and 
"Williamsport" (referring to the site of the Little League World Series, 
which has been traditionally dominated by batters). Prior to the 2002 baseball 
season, studies determined that it was more the dry air rather than thin 
air which contributed to the more frequent home runs. It was found that 
baseballs stored in drier air are harder and therefore more elastic to 
the impact of the bat. A room-sized humidor was installed in which to store 
the baseballs, and since its introduction the number of home runs at Coors 
Field has decreased and is now nearly the same as other parks.[15] Regardless 
of ball humidity, elevation is still a factor to the game. The ball does 
slip more easily through the thin air allowing for longer hits. In addition, 
the curveball tends to curve less with the thin air than at sea level leading 
to fewer strikeouts and fewer effective pitches for pitchers to work with.[16] 
Coors Field twice broke the major league record for home runs hit in a 
ballpark in one season. The previous record, 248, had been set at the Angels' 
original home of Wrigley Field in Los Angeles in 1961, its only year for 
major league ball. In Coors Field's first year, the home run total fell 
just 7 short of that mark, despite losing 9 games from the home schedule 
(or 1/9 of the normal 81) due to the strike that had continued from 1994. 
The next season, 1996, with a full schedule finally, 271 home runs were 
hit at Coors Field. In 1999, the current major league record was set at 
303. The annual home run figure dropped noticeably in 2002, and has dropped 
below 200 starting in 2005.[17] Although the number of home runs hit per 
season at Coors Field is decreasing, Coors Field still remains the most 
hitter friendly ballpark in the Major Leagues by a wide margin. From 2012–2015 
the Colorado Rockies led the league in runs scored in home games, while 
being last in the league for runs scored in away games. This demonstrates 
the extreme benefit that Coors Field's low air density provides to hitters.[18] 
The 1998 Major League Baseball All-Star Game took place in Coors Field. 
On July 2, 2003, a three-flight escalator malfunctioned, injuring 30 people. 
One woman, Peggy Nance, eventually would have to have her leg amputated. 
Overcrowding and a malfunctioning wire were blamed. The Rockies never admitted 
to any responsibility. In 2011, a man fell to his death when he was attempting 
to slide down a stair railing during the 7th inning of a Rockies-Diamondbacks 
game.[19] On April 23, 2013, Rockies and Braves played in the coldest game 
since MLB began tracking game time temperature in 1991, at 23 °F (−5 °C).[20] 
There have been nine 1-0 games in Coors Field history, through the 2015 
season. The first 1-0 game at Coors Field was on July 9, 2005,[21] meaning 
all nine games have occurred since Major League Baseball allowed the Rockies 
to start using a humidor on May 15, 2002:[22] Games 3 and 4 of the 2007 
World Series between the Rockies and the Boston Red Sox were held at Coors 
Field. The Red Sox swept both games to win the title. On August 7, 2016, 
Ichiro Suzuki collected his 3,000th MLB career hit; a seventh inning triple 
off Rockies pitcher Chris Rusin. On July 3, 2015, the Zac Brown Band played 
the first major concert at the ballpark in front of 42,000 fans. Coors 
Field also hosted two outdoor ice hockey games in February 2016. First, 
on February 20, the local Denver Pioneers defeated their arch-rival Colorado 
College 4-1[32] in a college match billed as the "Battle on Blake".[33] 
Then, one week later on February 27, the Colorado Avalanche lost to the 
Detroit Red Wings 5-3[32] as part of the 2016 NHL Stadium Series.[34][35] 
Alan Roach was the main PA announcer since Coors Field opened in 1995. 
In the spring preceding the 2007 Rockies season, Roach announced his retirement 
from his post at Coors Field to spend more time over the summer with his 
family. He did come back to substitute in 2008. Roach is also the PA announcer 
for the nearby Colorado Avalanche hockey team of the NHL and former PA 
announcer for the Denver Broncos of the NFL. He also provides voice-overs 
for local sports introductions in the region, in addition to hosting a 
local sports talk radio show. He is currently the PA Announcer for the 
Minnesota Vikings of the NFL. He is also one of the voices of the train 
system at Denver International Airport, and has also been heard as the 
PA announcer at recent Super Bowls. Reed Saunders, 23, was chosen to be 
the new voice of Coors Field on March 16, 2007. Coors Field was featured 
in the movie The Fan (1996) featuring Robert De Niro and Wesley Snipes. 
The ballpark was also featured in two episodes of South Park: "Professor 
Chaos" and "The Losing Edge", respectively. From Inaugural Game, April 
