In baseball, a corked bat is a specially modified baseball bat that has 
been filled with cork or other lighter, less dense substances to make the 
bat lighter. A lighter bat gives a hitter a quicker swing and may improve 
the hitter's timing. In Major League Baseball, modifying a bat with foreign 
substances and using it in play is illegal and subject to ejection and 
further punishment. To cork a bat, a hole approximately 1/2-inch (12.5 mm) 
in diameter is drilled down through the thick end of the bat roughly six 
inches deep. Crushed cork, bouncy ball, sawdust, or other similar material 
is compacted into the hole and the end is typically patched up with glue 
and sawdust. However, this weakens the bat's structural integrity and makes 
it more susceptible to breakage, even more so if the cork is placed beyond 
roughly six inches into the bat. Corked bats are typically discovered when 
they break during play. Using a corked bat in Major League Baseball is 
in violation of Rule 6.06 (d), which reads in full:[1] A batter is out 
for illegal action when: (d) He uses or attempts to use a bat that, in 
the umpire's judgment, has been altered or tampered with in such a way 
to improve the distance factor or cause an unusual reaction on the baseball. 
This includes, bats that are filled, flat surfaced, nailed, hollowed, grooved 
or covered with a substance such as paraffin, wax, etc. No advancement 
on the bases will be allowed and any out or outs made during a play shall 
stand. In addition to being called out, the player shall be ejected from 
the game and may be subject to additional penalties as determined by his 
League Punishment advisor. While filling a bat with cork makes it lighter, 
there is no rule that prevents a player from using a lighter, uncorked 
bat.[2] However, lighter wood bats are shorter than heavier bats.[3] Since 
1970, six players have been caught using corked bats. The following table 
summarizes these events: In addition, former player and Major League manager 
Phil Garner admitted in January 2010 on a Houston radio station that he 
used a corked bat against Gaylord Perry and "hit a home run" with it.[6] 
In 2010, Deadspin reported that Pete Rose used corked bats during his 1985 
pursuit of Ty Cobb's all-time hits record. Two sports memorabilia collectors 
who owned Rose's game-used bats from that season had the bats x-rayed and 
found the telltale signs of corking.[7][8] Rose had previously denied using 
