Cork is an impermeable buoyant material, the phellem layer of bark tissue 
that is harvested for commercial use primarily from Quercus suber (the 
Cork Oak), which is endemic to southwest Europe and northwest Africa. Cork 
is composed of suberin, a hydrophobic substance and, because of its impermeable, 
buoyant, elastic, and fire retardant properties, it is used in a variety 
of products, the most common of which is wine stoppers. The montado landscape 
of Portugal produces approximately half of cork harvested annually worldwide, 
with Corticeira Amorim being the leading company in the industry.[1] Cork 
was examined microscopically by Robert Hooke, which led to his discovery 
and naming of the cell.[2] There are about 2,200,000 hectares of cork forest 
worldwide; 34% in Portugal and 27% in Spain. Annual production is about 
200,000 tons; 49.6% from Portugal, 30.5% from Spain, 5.8% from Morocco, 
4.9% from Algeria, 3.5% from Tunisia, 3.1% Italy, and 2.6% from France.[3] 
Once the trees are about 25 years old the cork is traditionally stripped 
from the trunks every nine years, with the first two harvests generally 
producing lower quality cork. The trees live for about 300 years. The cork 
industry is generally regarded as environmentally friendly.[4] Cork production 
is generally considered sustainable because the cork tree is not cut down 
to obtain cork; only the bark is stripped to harvest the cork.[5] The tree 
continues to live and grow. The sustainability of production and the easy 
recycling of cork products and by-products are two of its most distinctive 
aspects. Cork Oak forests also prevent desertification and are a particular 
habitat in the Iberian Peninsula and the refuge of various endangered species.[6] 
Carbon footprint studies committed by Corticeira Amorim, Oeneo Bouchage 
of France and the Cork Supply Group of Portugal concluded that cork is 
the most environmentally friendly wine stopper in comparison to other alternatives. 
The Corticeira Amorim’s study, in particular ("Analysis of the life cycle 
of Cork, Aluminum and Plastic Wine Closures"), was developed by PricewaterhouseCoopers, 
according to ISO 14040.[7] Results concluded that, concerning the emission 
of greenhouse gases, each plastic stopper released 10 times more CO2, whilst 
an aluminium stopper releases 26 times more CO2 than does a cork stopper. 
The Cork Oak is unrelated to the "cork trees" (Phellodendron), which have 
corky bark but are not used for cork production. Cork is extracted only 
from early May to late August, when the cork can be separated from the 
tree without causing permanent damage. When the tree reaches 25–30 years 
of age and about 24in (60 cm) in circumference, the cork can be removed 
for the first time. However, this first harvest almost always produces 
poor quality or "male" cork (Portuguese cortiça virgem;[8] Spanish corcho 
bornizo or corcho virgen[9]). Bark from initial harvests can be used to 
make flooring, shoes, insulation and other industrial products. Subsequent 
extractions usually occur at intervals of 9 years, though it can take up 
to 13 for the cork to reach an acceptable size. If the product is of high 
quality it is known as "gentle" cork (Portuguese cortiça amadia,[10] but 
also cortiça secundeira only if it is the second time;[8] Spanish corcho 
segundero, also restricted to the "second time"[9]), and, ideally, is used 
to make stoppers for wine and champagne bottles.[11] The workers who specialize 
in removing the cork are known as extractors. Extractors use a very sharp 
axe to make two types of cuts on the tree: one horizontal cut around the 
plant, called a crown or necklace, at a height of about 2-3 times the circumference 
of the tree, and several vertical cuts called rulers or openings. This 
is the most delicate phase of the work because, even though cutting the 
cork requires quite a bit of strength, the extractor must not damage the 
underlying phellogen or the tree will be harmed. To free the cork from 
the tree, the extractor pushes the handle of the axe into the rulers. A 
good extractor needs to use a firm but precise touch in order to free a 
large amount of cork without damaging the product or tree. These freed 
portions of the cork are called planks. The planks are usually carried 
off by hand since cork forests are rarely accessible to vehicles. The cork 
is stacked in piles in the forest or in yards at a factory, and traditionally, 
left to dry, after which it can be loaded onto a truck and shipped to a 
processor. Cork's elasticity combined with its near-impermeability makes 
it suitable as a material for bottle stoppers, especially for wine bottles. 
Cork stoppers represent about 60% of all cork based production. Cork is 
also an essential element in the production of badminton shuttlecocks. 
Cork's bubble-form structure and natural fire retardant make it suitable 
for acoustic and thermal insulation in house walls, floors, ceilings and 
facades. The by-product of more lucrative stopper production, corkboard 
is gaining popularity as a non-allergenic, easy-to-handle and safe alternative 
to petrochemical-based insulation products. Sheets of cork, also often 
the by-product of stopper production, are used to make bulletin boards 
as well as floor and wall tiles. Cork's low density makes it a suitable 
material for fishing floats and buoys, as well as handles for fishing rods 
(as an alternative to neoprene). Granules of cork can also be mixed into 
concrete. The composites made by mixing cork granules and cement have lower 
thermal conductivity, lower density and good energy absorption. Some of 
the property ranges of the composites are density (400–1500 kg/m³), compressive 
strength (1–26 MPa) and flexural strength (0.5–4.0 MPa).[12] As late as 
the mid-17th century, French vintners did not use cork stoppers, using 
instead oil-soaked rags stuffed into the necks of bottles.[13] Wine corks 
can be made of either a single piece of cork, or composed of particles, 
as in champagne corks; corks made of granular particles are called "agglomerated 
corks".[14] Natural cork closures are used for about 80% of the 20 billion 
bottles of wine produced each year. After a decline in use as wine-stoppers 
due to the increase in the use of synthetic alternatives, cork wine-stoppers 
are making a comeback and currently represent approximately 60% of wine-stoppers 
today.[citation needed] Because of the cellular structure of cork, it is 
easily compressed upon insertion into a bottle and will expand to form 
a tight seal. The interior diameter of the neck of glass bottles tends 
to be inconsistent, making this ability to seal through variable contraction 
and expansion an important attribute. However, unavoidable natural flaws, 
channels, and cracks in the bark make the cork itself highly inconsistent. 
In a 2005 closure study, 45% of corks showed gas leakage during pressure 
testing both from the sides of the cork as well as through the cork body 
itself.[15] Since the mid-1990s, a number of wine brands have switched 
to alternative wine closures such as plastic stoppers, screw caps, or other 
closures. Some consumers may have conceptions about screw caps being representative 
of lower quality wines, due to their cheaper price; however, in Australia, 
for example, much of the non-sparkling wine production now uses these caps 
as a cork alternative, although some have recently switched back to cork 
citing issues using screw caps.[16] These alternatives to cork have both 
advantages and disadvantages. For example, screwtops are generally considered 
to offer a trichloroanisole (TCA) free seal, but they also reduce the oxygen 
transfer rate between the bottle and the atmosphere to almost zero, which 
can lead to a reduction in the quality of the wine.[citation needed] TCA 
is the main documented cause of cork taint in wine. However, some in the 
wine industry say natural cork stoppers are important because they allow 
oxygen to interact with wine for proper aging, and are best suited for 
wines purchased with the intent to age.[17] Stoppers which resemble natural 
cork very closely can be made by isolating the suberin component of the 
cork from the undesirable lignin, mixing it with the same substance used 
for contact lenses and an adhesive, and molding it into a standardized 
product, free of TCA or other undesirable substances.[18] The study "Analysis 
of the life cycle of Cork, Aluminum and Plastic Wine Closures," conducted 
by PricewaterhouseCoopers and commissioned by a major cork manufacturer, 
Amorim, concluded that cork is the most environmentally responsible stopper, 
in a one-year life cycle analysis comparison with plastic stoppers and 
aluminum screw caps.[19][20] Cork is used in musical instruments, particularly 
woodwind instruments, where it is used to fasten together segments of the 
instrument, making the seams airtight. Low quality conducting baton handles 
are also often made out of cork. It is also used in shoes, especially those 
using Goodyear Welt Construction. Cork can be used to make bricks for the 
outer walls of houses, as in Portugal's pavilion at Expo 2000. On November 
28, 2007, the Portuguese national postal service CTT issued the world's 
first postage stamp made of cork.[21][22] Cork is used as the core of both 
baseballs and cricket balls. A corked bat is made by replacing the interior 
of a baseball bat with cork—a practice known as "corking". It was historically 
a method of cheating at baseball; the efficacy of the practice is now discredited. 
Cork is often used, in various forms, in spacecraft heat shields and fairings. 
Cork can be used in the paper pick-up mechanisms in inkjet and laser printers. 
Cork is also used inside footwear to improve climate control and comfort. 
Cork is used to make later-model pith helmets.[23] Corks are also hung 
from hats to keep insects away. (See cork hat) Cork has been used as a 
core material in sandwich composite construction. Cork can be used as the 
friction lining material of an automatic transmission clutch, as designed 
in certain mopeds.[24] Cork can be used instead of wood or aluminium in 
automotive interiors.[25] Cork can also be used to make watch bands and 
faces as seen with Sprout Watches. Cork slabs are sometimes used by orchid 
