The School of Industrial and Labor Relations (ILR) is an industrial relations 
school at Cornell University, located in Ithaca, New York, United States. 
The School has six academic departments which include: Economics, Human 
Resource Management, International and Comparative Labor, Labor Relations, 
Organizational Behavior; and Social Statistics. Established by the state 
legislature in 1945, the school is a statutory or contract college through 
the State University of New York (SUNY) system and receives funding from 
the State of New York. It was the world's first school for college-level 
study in workplace issues and remains as one of the leading institutions 
for industrial relations. In addition to its undergraduate curriculum, 
the school offers professional and doctoral degrees, as well as executive 
education programs. In Fall 2016, the School received 1,925 freshman applications 
and accepted 235 students (12.2%). In 1944, a coalition of leaders in American 
business, industry, labor, government, and education formed to establish 
the school. They believed that a new type of school was needed that focused 
on issues involving the American workplace. More specifically, the State 
Legislature established the school in 1945 based on the recommendations 
of the New York State Joint Legislative Committee on Industrial and Labor 
Conditions. This committee was headed by Irving M. Ives and was originally 
formed in 1938. Ives, along with others in the committee, determined that 
a fundamental dysfunction in the relationship between management and labor 
was that each group brought different technical information and skills 
to the negotiating table and that these differences were hindering the 
formation of mutually favorable outcomes. The committee’s response to this 
observation was to recommend that the state of New York provide "a common 
training program" for representatives of labor and management.[1] The committee 
stressed that the importance of such a training program is "not merely 
attendance at the same institution or in the same school, but rather mutual 
and cooperative analysis of the problems common to both groups." Indeed, 
a quote from the committee’s 1943 report adds, "The Committee believes 
[however] that a state-sponsored school in this state should be based upon 
a broader educational philosophy. One of the most important ways of improving 
industrial and labor relations is to bring together, in a common training 
program, representatives of both labor and industry."[2] In other words, 
it was the committee’s recommendation to provide common training to leaders 
from all perspectives of the management-labor debate. It was hoped that 
this common training would stabilize the negotiating table by producing 
leaders on all sides who have common technical information and competencies. 
In 1942 the committee recommended that ILR be established at Cornell (the 
state’s land grant institution). Two years later, formal legislative action 
was taken and Governor Dewey approved establishing the school. On July 
1, 1945 ILR became a going educational enterprise. The school was charged 
with the mission "to improve industrial and labor conditions in the State 
through the provision of instruction, the conduct of research, and the 
dissemination of information in all aspects of industrial, labor, and public 
relations, affecting employers and employees."[3][4] Ives was the first 
dean of the school. However, soon after gaining this title he became a 
United States Senator for New York and left for Washington. Beginning in 
the summer of 1947, Martin P. Catherwood became the dean The school was 
also championed by, then Chancellor of Cornell University, Edmund Ezra 
Day. The state of New York provided the school with generous funding. However, 
due to time constraints, the school soon moved into quonset huts on the 
Ithaca campus and later into buildings vacated by the New York State College 
of Veterinary Medicine.[3] Milton R. Konvitz, who was a labor-law expert, 
was a founding faculty member and remained active until his death in 2003. 
Frances Perkins, who served as Secretary of Labor for 12 years under Franklin 
D. Roosevelt, joined the faculty and served until her death in 1965. The 
school offered the first 4-year degree (B.S.) in the field of industrial 
and labor relations. Originally, students had ninety-seven of the required 
120 hours prescribed for them. The first two years consisted of many social 
science classes such as American history and government, sociology, psychology, 
economics, and law. Students were required to take English and public speaking 
courses as well as courses in accounting and statistics. The last two years 
of coursework were the technical core: classes that were expected to provide 
the students with the technical skills and competencies which enable them 
to develop professional expertise within the field of industrial and labor 
relations. Examples of these courses include: history of labor and labor-union 
organization and management, business organization and management, and 
corporate finance. Beyond the classroom, students were expected to gain 
applied experience. This was achieved primarily through a required summer 
work-training program. To fulfill this expectation, students would spend 
three of their summers working in the field for each of the following types 
of organizations: industrial or commercial, government, and labor.[5] In 
2012, ILR opened the International HRM Academy in collaboration with King's 
College London.[6] The school was originally housed in quonset huts, but 
later it moved into buildings vacated by the Cornell College of Veterinary 
Medicine, which were built in 1911 and are on the register of historic 
structures. The main campus occupies a quad near the center of Cornell, 
comprising an academic building, a research building, an extension building, 
a conference center, and a library. Ives Hall, named after ILR founding 
dean Irving Ives, is the academic building and is divided into a classroom/student 
wing and a faculty wing. The student wing houses separate lounges for undergraduate 
and graduate students. Also on the quad is the Martin P. Catherwood Library, 
which is one of only two official depository libraries of the International 
Labour Organization (the other being the Library of Congress). The ILR 
Conference Center, with its distinctive belfry atop, hosts special training 
sessions and recruiting events and offices for the United Auto Workers. 
The research building houses the Scheinman Institute on Conflict Resolution 
as well as offices for the ILR Review. The extension building, renamed 
Dolgen Hall in 2008, houses the Yang Tan Institute.[7] In 1998, New York 
State replaced the portion of Ives Hall fronting along Tower Road with 
a new 110,605 sq ft (10,275.5 m2) building.[8] Recently, the State also 
renovated the faculty wing of Ives Hall at a cost of $14 million,[9] and 
in 2004, New York State completed extensively renovations of three other 
campus buildings.[10] ILR also has campuses in Albany, New York, Buffalo, 
New York, Rochester, New York [11] and an extension building in New York 
City - the headquarters of the R. Brinkley Smithers Institute for Alcohol-Related 
Workplace Studies and Institute for Workplace Studies. The school is divided 
into six departments: Labor Relations, Law and History; Human Resource 
Studies; International and Comparative Labor Relations; Economics; Organizational 
Behavior; and Social Statistics. While most such schools offer only masters 
and PhD degrees in human resources or labor relations, Cornell is one of 
a few that offer a four-year undergraduate program focused on work and 
employment, the B.S. in Industrial and Labor Relations (BSILR).[12] All 
students are required to complete a 120 credit hour curriculum with the 
following general requirements: First-year students are required to complete 
a two-semester writing seminar, Introduction to Organizational Behavior, 
History of American Labor, as well as micro and macro economics. Sophomore 
year students have the following course requirements: statistical reasoning, 
labor and employment law, Human Resource Management, Collective Bargaining, 
and an economics seminar. Junior and Senior level students are required 
to take 24 credits from within the school's six departments. An additional 
16 credits may be taken outside the school. Additionally, there are math 
and physical education requirements.[13] Twenty five percent of undergraduates 
go on to attend law school[14] and another 10 percent earn an MBA or other 
advanced degree.[14][15] Of the 911 undergraduates, 406 (45%) were New 
York State residents at the time they matriculated.[16] New York residents 
pay a reduced in-state tuition. The school also sponsors a chapter of the 
Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM). The school's undergraduate 
contingent has claimed the national title at SHRM's HR Games twice—in 2002 
and 2004.[17] In 2011, a Cornell Daily Sun article rated ILR the "Sexiest 
Major" at Cornell: "The dreamy look in their eyes and the business-casual 
attire on their backs... They are the students who would have been in AEM 
except for the fact that they have souls. These students’ passion for the 
underdog and stunning good looks make ILR, hands down, the number one sexiest 
major at Cornell."[18] Undergraduates have a number of internship opportunities, 
including semester-long for-credit internships.[19] The school also sponsors 
non-credit internships over the January break or during the summer.[19] 
Students can also participate in the Arts College's Cornell-in-Washington 
program. Students in the top 20% of their junior class can write a senior 
thesis and thereby graduate with honors.[20] Graduate-level degrees offered 
through the Graduate School include the Master of Industrial and Labor 
Relations (MILR), the dual MILR/Master of Business Administration (MBA) 
(joint with the Johnson School), the Master of Professional Studies (MPS), 
the Executive Master of Human Resource Management, and the M.S./Ph.D. Graduate 
students may also complete a semester abroad or a one-year-additional dual-degree 
Master in Management from ESCP Europe at any one of its campuses: Paris, 
Torino, Berlin, Madrid, or London. The school's contingent has claimed 
the title at the National MBA Human Capital Case Competition five times 
(the most of any school)—2007, 2012, 2013, 2014, and 2015.[21] Through 
eCornell, a wholly owned subsidiary of Cornell University, the School of 
Industrial and Labor Relations offers a series of professional development 
certificate programs. These Human Resources management certificates are 
developed by faculty and seasoned HR practitioners from the ILR school 
and the courses bring together the insights and work of leading academic 
researchers with instruction grounded in practice and focused on real-world 
application. The certificate programs are designed for those new to HR; 
accomplished HR practitioner; or HR leaders or business partners. Certificates 
are issued from Cornell University through eCornell. Since 1946, the school 
has participated in Cornell University's cooperative extension program, 
which reaches every county in the state. The school's extension program 
provides training and consulting services to both organized labor and management 
on contract negotiations, handling grievances, and employee relations.[22] 
ILR also offers online learning courses and materials through eCornell, 
and its international program hosts scholars from other nations to conduct 
research in Ithaca as visiting fellows.[23] Starting in 1952, the school 
conducted the Liberian Codification Project under the direction of Milton 
R. Konvitz.[24] The school also hosts: Graduate students oversee the Cornell 
HR Review, an online journal that publishes on a rolling basis.[26] Since 
1947, the school's faculty publishes a quarterly academic journal named 
the Industrial and Labor Relations Review.[27] The undergraduate ILR Sports 
Management Club has also published Sports, Inc. magazine each academic 
semester since Spring 2009.[28] Current and former faculty include Charles 
Tharp, former SVP of HR at Bristol-Myers Squibb and Saks;[29][30] Kevin 
Hallock, board member for WorldatWork;[31] Francine D. Blau (also ILR alumna), 
first female recipient of the IZA Prize; and the 4th U.S. Secretary of 
Labor, Frances Perkins—the first female U.S. Cabinet member, the longest-serving 
(12 years) Secretary of Labor, witness to the Triangle Factory fire, and 
champion of both the Fair Labor Standards Act and the Social Security Act.[32] 
Andy Stern, former President of the SEIU, holds an appointment as the Alice 
B. Grant Labor Leader in Residence at the school.[33] Academia General 
Management Labor Organizations Government Human Resource Management Other 
Coordinates: 42°26′55″N 76°28′43″W﻿ / ﻿42.448510°N 76.478620°W﻿ / 42.448510; 
