The Cornell Big Red is the informal name of the sports teams, and other 
competitive teams, at Cornell University. The university sponsors 36 varsity 
sports, as well as numerous intramural and club teams. Cornell participates 
in NCAA Division I as part of the Ivy League. The men's and women's hockey 
teams compete in the ECAC Hockey League. Additionally, teams compete in 
the National Intercollegiate Women's Fencing Association, the Collegiate 
Sprint Football League, the Eastern Association of Rowing Colleges (EARC), 
the Eastern Association of Women's Rowing Colleges (EAWRC), the Middle 
Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association, and the Eastern Intercollegiate 
Wrestling Association (EIWA). The football, lacrosse, and sprint football 
teams play in Schoellkopf Field, which has a capacity of 25,597. The ice 
hockey teams play in Lynah Rink, which has a capacity of 4,267. The Cornell 
men's wrestling team competes at the Friedman Wrestling Center with a capacity 
of 1,100. The Cornell men's soccer team plays on Charles F. Berman Field 
on the southeast side of campus. The Cornell Men's and Women's Track and 
Field Teams compete in Barton Hall, a converted military hangar, for indoor 
track, and the Robert J. Kane sports complex for outdoor track. There are 
also facilities about 2 miles east of campus that has multiple uses, but 
it is mainly used by the Cornell men's soccer team for practice. Other 
campus facilities include a Robert Trent Jones (a Cornell alumnus) designed 
golf course, baseball's Hoy Field, the Niemand•Robison Softball Field, 
the Oxley Equestrian Center, and numerous fields and gymnasiums. Some of 
the athletic playing fields along Tower Road are known as the "Alumni Fields" 
because the Cornell Alumni Association funded the grading and development 
of these fields in exchange for a promise that they would remain in perpetuity. 
A subsequent land swap resulted in giving the Agriculture College building 
sites at the east end of the fields in exchange for the site of what became 
Schoellkopf Field and Hoy Field.[2] The Alumni Fields became the site of 
an underground Synchrotron Laboratory.[3] Since the 1970s, several of the 
fields were used as sites for new biology buildings and were replaced by 
new fields along Jessup Road. Today, facilities are spread around campus 
with tennis courts and basketball courts located near a number of dormitories. 
In addition, the athletics department operates Helen Newman Hall (formerly 
the women's athletics building) and Noyes Center as remote fitness facilities.[4] 
Cornell's teams did not have an official name until after 1905, when a 
recent graduate, Romeyn Berry '04, wrote lyrics for a new football song. 
The lyrics included the words "the big, red team," and the nickname stuck.[5] 
Cornell does not have an official mascot; however, the bear has long been 
a symbol of Cornell Athletics. In 1915, a live bear named Touchdown first 
appeared at football games to represent Cornell. The current version, which 
appears at many of Cornell's sporting events, is a brown bear costume (the 
live bear was replaced in 1939) that is worn by an undergraduate student; 
it is referred to as the "Big Red Bear" or by its nickname, "Touchdown." 
And recently, "red man," a person dressed in a tight red suit, has been 
seen running up and down the field of men's soccer games. Cornell's colors, 
carnelian red and white, date back to the university's Inauguration Day 
on October 7, 1868.[6] Many of Cornell's athletic directors have made substantial 
contributions to collegiate athletics in general, including Romeyn Berry, 
James Lynah, and Robert Kane. Big Red sports are covered in the two campus 
publications, the Cornell Daily Sun and the Cornell Review, as well as 
on various blogs.[7] A number of fight songs are associated with Cornell 
sports teams, such as "The Big Red Team", "Fight for Cornell", and "New 
Cornell Fight Song",[8] but the one with the longest use and tradition 
is "Give My Regards to Davy", a song written by three Cornellians in 1904. 
The song is sung to the tune of George M. Cohan's "Give My Regards to Broadway". 
Cornell maintains informal athletic rivalries with other collegiate institutions. 
Cornell's principal rival is Harvard. The men's ice hockey team has a historic 
rivalry with Harvard that dates back to 1910 and includes many championship 
meetings. This rivalry was highlighted in the 1970 novel Love Story and 
its film adaptation. Following tradition, when Harvard plays the men's 
ice hockey team at Cornell's Lynah Rink, some Big Red fans throw fish on 
the ice.[9] A historic rivalry with Boston University, dating back to when 
Cornell and Boston University played in ECAC Hockey before the creation 
of Hockey East, is maintained by biennial games at Madison Square Garden, 
dubbed "Red Hot Hockey," on Thanksgiving weekend. Cornell has traditionally 
had a men's lacrosse rivalry with Johns Hopkins University and, since 1980, 
Syracuse University. And the rising soccer team has formed an impressive 
rivalry with Syracuse University after its recent close games. Cornell 
and the University of Pennsylvania are long-time rivals in football. They 
have played each other in 122 games since their first meeting in 1893, 
this is the fifth most-played rivalry in college football.[10] Cornell's 
football series against both the University of Pennsylvania and Dartmouth 
College are tied for second longest uninterrupted college football match-ups 
in history, both dating back to 1919.[11] Cornell and Penn play for the 
Trustees Cup. They are only surpassed by the Lehigh-Lafayette series, which 
is uninterrupted since 1897. In polo, the men's and women's teams maintain 
rivalries with the University of Virginia and the University of Connecticut. 
For men's lacrosse, Cornell and Princeton University have historically 
been the perennial favorites in the Ivy League and the Princeton game is 
usually the most anticipated Ivy-game. Fellow upstate schools Syracuse 
University and Hobart are also considered Cornell's lacrosse rivals. Additionally, 
in women's equestrian, Skidmore College is a constant rival. The sprint 
football team has won the CSFL title six times. The men's ice hockey team 
has been NCAA champion twice, ECAC champion 12 times and Ivy League champion 
20 times, and recorded the only undefeated season in NCAA Division I Hockey 
history in 1970. The men's lacrosse team has been NCAA champion three times 
and Ivy League champion 27 times. The men's Lightweight rowing team varsity 
8+ has won the IRA regatta six times since 1992 (1992, 2006–08, 2014 & 
2015). The women's polo team has won the National Women's Polo Championship 
15 times and the women's hockey team has been Ivy League champion 8 times. 
(*shared title) Cornell Big Red wrestling As of July 2, 2015, Cornell has 
5 NCAA team national championships.[39] Below are 5 national team titles 
