Cornell Law School is the law school of Cornell University, a private Ivy 
League university located in Ithaca, New York. It is one of the five Ivy 
League law schools and offers three law degree programs (J.D., LL.M., and 
J.S.D.) along with several dual-degree programs in conjunction with other 
professional schools at the university. Established in 1887 as Cornell's 
Department of Law, the law school is ranked 13th in the United States by 
U.S. News & World Report.[3] Cornell Law alumni include business executive 
and philanthropist Myron Charles Taylor, namesake of the law school building, 
along with U.S. Secretaries of State Edmund Muskie and William P. Rogers, 
U.S. Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Samuel Pierce, the first 
female President of Taiwan, Tsai Ing-wen, federal judge and first female 
editor-in-chief of a law review Mary Donlon Alger, former President of 
the International Criminal Court Song Sang-Hyun, as well as many members 
of the U.S. Congress, governors, state attorneys general, U.S. federal 
and state judges, diplomats and businesspeople. Cornell Law School has 
the third lowest faculty-to-student ratio (10.4 to 1) of ABA–accredited 
law schools in the United States.[4] with each class containing approximately 
200 students.[2] According to Cornell's ABA-required disclosures, 95.8% 
of 2014 graduates obtained full-time, long-term, JD-required employment 
nine months after graduation[5] with a median private sector starting salary 
of $160,000.[3] Cornell Law School is home to the Legal Information Institute 
(LII), the Journal of Empirical Legal Studies, the Cornell Law Review, 
the Cornell Journal of Law and Public Policy and the Cornell International 
Law Journal. The current dean of the law school is Eduardo Peñalver, who 
assumed the role in 2014. The Law Department at Cornell opened in 1887 
in Morrill Hall with Judge Douglass Boardman as its first dean. At that 
time, admission did not require even a high school diploma. In 1917, two 
years of undergraduate education were required for admission, and in 1924, 
it became a graduate degree program.[6] The department was renamed the 
Cornell Law School in 1925. In 1890, George Washington Fields graduated, 
one of the first law-school-graduates of color in the United States.[7] 
In 1893, Cornell had its first female graduate, Mary Kennedy Brown. Future 
Governor, Secretary of State, and Chief Justice of the United States, Charles 
Evans Hughes, was a professor of law at Cornell from 1891–1893, and after 
returning to legal practice he continued to teach at the law school as 
a special lecturer from 1893–1895. The law school’s residence hall is named 
in honor of Hughes. In 1892, the school moved into Boardman Hall, which 
was constructed specifically for legal instruction. The school moved from 
Boardman Hall (now the site of Olin Library) to its present-day location 
at Myron Taylor Hall in 1937. The law school building, an ornate, Gothic 
structure, was the result of a donation by Myron Charles Taylor, a former 
CEO of US Steel, and a member of the Cornell Law class of 1894. Hughes 
Hall was built as an addition to Myron Taylor Hall and completed in 1963. 
It was also funded by a gift from Taylor. Another addition to Myron Taylor 
Hall, the Jane M.G. Foster wing, was completed in 1988 and added more space 
to the library. Foster was a member of the class of 1918, an editor of 
the Cornell Law Review (then Cornell Law Quarterly), and an Order of the 
Coif graduate. In June 2012 the school embarked on a three-year, multi-phase 
expansion and renovation. The first phase created additional classroom 
space underground, adjacent to Myron Taylor Hall along College Avenue. 
The second phase will include the removal and digitization of printed materials 
from the library stacks so that the space can be converted to additional 
classroom and student space. The third phase involves converting Hughes 
Hall into office space.[8] In 1948, Cornell Law School established a program 
of specialization in international affairs and also started awarding LL.B. 
degrees. In 1968, the school began to publish the Cornell International 
Law Journal. In 1991, the school established the Berger International Legal 
Studies Program. In 1994, the school established a partnership with the 
University of Paris I law faculty to establish a Paris-based Summer Institute 
of International and Comparative Law. From 1999–2004 the school hosted 
the Feminism and Legal Theory Project. In 2006, the school established 
its second summer law institute in Suzhou, China. The Clarke Program in 
East Asian Law and Culture was established in 2002. For the class entering 
in the fall of 2015, 1,192 out of 3,899 applicants (30.6%) were offered 
admission, with 203 matriculating. The 25th and 75th LSAT percentiles for 
the 2015 entering class were 164 and 168, respectively, with a median of 
167. The 25th and 75th undergraduate GPA percentiles were 3.62 and 3.82, 
respectively, with a median of 3.74.[2] In the LL.M. program, which is 
designed for non-U.S.-trained lawyers, 900 applications were received for 
the 50 to 60 openings. LL.M. students come from over 30 different countries.[9] 
Along with consideration of the quality of an applicant's academic record 
and LSAT scores, the full-file-review admissions process places a heavy 
emphasis on an applicant's personal statement, letters of recommendation, 
community/extracurricular involvement, and work experience. The application 
also invites a statement on diversity and a short note on why an applicant 
particularly wants to attend Cornell. The Law School values applicants 
who have done their research and have particular interests or goals that 
would be served by attending the school versus one of its peer institutions.[9] 
Cornell Law School was ranked 7th in the Law School 100 Rankings and 13th 
in the 2017 U.S. News and World Report Law School rankings.[10][11] The 
Master of Laws (LL.M.) program at Cornell Law School was ranked 1st in 
the 2011, 2010, 2008 and 2006 AUAP rankings.[12] In 2011, the National 
Law Journal reported that Cornell Law graduates had the 2nd highest percent 
placement at the top 250 law firms.[13] The advanced degrees in law, LL.M. 
and JSD, have been offered at Cornell since 1928.[14] The JD/MBA has three- 
and four-year tracks,[15] the JD/MILR program is four years, the JD/MPA 
is four years, and JD/MRP is four years. In addition, Cornell has joint 
program arrangements with universities abroad to prepare students for international 
licensure: The JD/Master en Droit lasts four-years and prepares graduates 
for admission to the bar in the United States and in France. The JD/M.LL.P 
is three years and conveys a mastery of German and European law and practices. 
The JD/Master in Global Business Law lasts three years. Cornell Law School 
runs two summer institutes overseas, providing Cornell Law students with 
unique opportunities to engage in rigorous international legal studies. 
The Cornell-Université de Paris I Summer Institute of International and 
Comparative Law at the Sorbonne in Paris, France offers a diverse curriculum 
in the historic Sorbonne and Centre Panthéon (Faculté de droit) buildings 
at the heart of the University of Paris I: Panthéon-Sorbonne. Coursework 
includes international human rights, comparative legal systems, and international 
commercial arbitration. French language classes are also offered. In 2006, 
Cornell Law School announced that it would launch a second summer law institute, 
the new Workshop in International Business Transactions with Chinese Characteristics 
in Suzhou, China. In partnership with Bucerius Law School (Germany) and 
Kenneth Wang School of Law at Soochow University (China), Cornell Law provides 
students from the United States, Europe, and China with an academic forum 
in which they can collaborate on an international business problem. Cornell 
ranked 2nd nationally on the American Bar Association's list of law schools 
with the highest bar-passage-required job placement.[16] According to Cornell 
Law School's official ABA-required disclosures, 95.8% of the Class of 2014 
obtained full-time, long-term, JD-required employment nine months after 
graduation.[5] Cornell Law School's Law School Transparency under-employment 
score is 2.1%, indicating the percentage of the Class of 2014 unemployed, 
pursuing an additional degree, or working in a non-professional, short-term, 
or part-time job nine months after graduation.[17] The total cost of attendance 
(indicating the cost of tuition, fees, and living expenses) at Cornell 
Law School for the 2014-2015 academic year is $79,429.[18] The Law School 
Transparency estimated debt-financed cost of attendance for three years 
is $297,190.[19] Cornell Law also is home to the Legal Information Institute 
(LII), an online provider of public legal information.[20] Started in 1992, 
it was the first law site developed for the internet.[21] The LII offers 
all opinions of the United States Supreme Court handed down since 1990, 
together with over 600 earlier decisions selected for their historic importance.[22] 
The LII also publishes over a decade of opinions of the New York Court 
of Appeals, the full United States Code, the UCC, and the Code of Federal 
Regulations among other resources.[20] It recently created Wex, a free 
wiki legal dictionary and encyclopedia, collaboratively created by legal 
experts.[23] And the LII Supreme Court Bulletin is a free email- and web-based 
publication that intends to serve subscribers with thorough, yet understandable, 
legal analysis of upcoming Court cases as well as timely email notification 
of Court decisions.[24] The school has three law journals that are student-edited: 
the Cornell Law Review, the Cornell International Law Journal, and the 
Cornell Journal of Law and Public Policy. Additionally, the Journal of 
Empirical Legal Studies is a peer-reviewed journal that is published by 
Cornell Law faculty. Cornell Law students actively participate in myriad 
moot court competitions annually, both in the law school itself and in 
external and international competitions. The Langfan First-Year Moot Court 
Competition, which takes place every spring, traditionally draws a large 
majority of the first-year class. Other internal competitions include the 
Cuccia Cup and the Rossi Cup. Cornell Law is housed within Myron Taylor 
Hall (erected 1932), which contains the Law Library, classrooms, offices, 
a moot court room, and the Cornell Legal Aid Clinic. The law library contains 
700,000 books and microforms and includes rare historical texts relevant 
to the legal history of the United States.[25] The library is one of the 
12 national depositories for print records of briefs filed with the United 
States Supreme Court. Also, there is a large collection of print copies 
of the records and briefs of the New York Court of Appeals. The large microfilm 
collection has sets of Congressional, Supreme Court, and United Nations 
documents, as well as a large collection of World Law Reform commission 
materials. Microfiche records and briefs for the United States Supreme 
Court, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and D.C. 
Circuit, and the New York State Court of Appeals are also collected.[26] 
The library also has a large collection of international, foreign, and 
comparative law, with the main focus being on the Commonwealth of Nations 
and Europe. Along with this, there are also collections of public international 
law and international trade law. A new initiative by the library is to 
collect Chinese, Japanese, and Korean resources to support the Law School’s 
Clarke Program in East Asian Law and Culture.[26] Rare books in the library 
include the Samuel Thorne collection, which has 175 of some of the earliest 
and most rare books on law. Other significant collections include the Nathaniel 
C. Moak library and the Edwin J. Marshall Collection of early works on 
equity and the Earl J. Bennett Collection of Statutory Material, a print 
collection of original colonial, territorial, and state session laws and 
statutory codes.[26] Among the library’s special collections are 19th Century 
Trials Collection, Donovan Nuremberg Trials Collection, Scottsboro Collection, 
William P. and Adele Langston Rogers Collection and the Chile Declassification 
Project.[26] Political Federal Judiciary State Judiciary International 
Judiciary Law and Business Miscellaneous Fictional Coordinates: 42°26′38″N 
