Corona is a neighborhood in the borough of Queens in New York City. It 
is bordered by Flushing to the east, Jackson Heights to the west, Forest 
Hills and Rego Park to the south, Elmhurst to the southwest, and East Elmhurst 
to the north. Corona has a multicultural population with a Latino majority, 
and is the site of historic African American and Italian American communities. 
After World War II, the majority of the neighborhood's residents were mostly 
Italian, German, Irish and of other European ancestries. Corona also has 
a significant Chinese population.[1] Corona is bordered on the east by 
Flushing Meadows–Corona Park, one of the largest parks in New York City 
and the site of the 1939 and 1964 World's Fairs. Located within the park 
are Citi Field, which replaced Shea Stadium as home of the New York Mets 
baseball team in 2009, and the USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center, 
where the US Open in tennis is held annually. In North Corona is the northern 
section of the historic Corona neighborhood, created in 1978 with the formation 
of the city's Community Boards and Community Districts, and the need for 
coterminous borders. Corona's main thoroughfares include Corona Avenue, 
Roosevelt Avenue, Northern Boulevard, Junction Boulevard, and 108th Street. 
The neighborhood is part of Queens Community Board 4, while the northernmost 
part is included in Community Board 3.[2] Corona's ZIP code is 11368. Corona, 
with East Elmhurst, are often referred to as one combined area, Corona–East 
Elmhurst. The area was originally known as West Flushing, but real estate 
developer Thomas Waite Howard, who became the first postmaster in 1872,[3] 
petitioned to have the post office name changed to Corona in 1870, suggesting 
that it was the "crown of Queens County."[4] Another theory is that the 
name Corona derives from the crown used as an emblem by the Crown Building 
Company, which is alleged to have developed the area; the Italian immigrants 
who moved into the new housing stock referred to the neighborhood by the 
Italian or Spanish word for "crown", or "corona". Either way, the name 
is a foreign transliteration of the word "crown", Corona was a late 19th-century 
residential development in the northeastern corner of the old Town of Newtown. 
Real estate speculators from New York started the community in 1854, the 
same year that the New York and Flushing Railroad began service to the 
area largely to serve a newly opened race course. It was at the Fashion 
Race Course in 1858 that the first games of baseball to charge admission 
took place. The games, which took place between the All Stars of Brooklyn 
and the All Stars of New York, are commonly believed to be the first all 
star baseball games and in essence the birthplace of professional baseball. 
A trophy baseball from this tournament recently sold for nearly half a 
million US dollars.[5][6] During the second half of the 1940s through the 
1960s, many legendary African American musicians, civil rights leaders 
and athletes moved to the neighborhood. In the last half of the 20th century, 
Corona saw dramatic ethnic successions. In the 1950s, what was predominantly 
an Italian American and African American neighborhood began to give way 
to an influx of Dominicans. In the late 1990s, Corona saw a new wave of 
immigrants from Latin America. The area north of Roosevelt Avenue contained 
the heart of the historic African American community. The intersection 
of 108th Street and Corona Avenue is the historic center of the Italian 
American community, sometimes referred to as Corona Heights. The majority 
Hispanic community now consists of Dominicans, Colombians, Ecuadorians, 
Salvadorans, Guatemalans, Bolivians, Peruvians, Mexicans, Venezuelans, 
and Chileans. There are also Asian Americans (Chinese, Indians, Koreans, 
Filipinos, and Japanese) as well as Italian Americans and African Americans.[7] 
Corona has several private schools including School of the Transfiguration. 
Public schools include the High School for Arts and Business and P.S. 92. 
There are many churches representing diverse denominations. Antioch Baptist 
Church at 103rd Street and Northern Boulevard is a prominent African American 
congregation dating to 1936 with a membership of 700.[8] Our Lady of Sorrows 
Roman Catholic Church at 104th Street and 37th Avenue was built in 1899 
largely out of red brick with a nearby convent of the same period.[9] Today 
it conducts most of its masses in Spanish[10] and attracts large weekend 
crowds. The Congregation Tifereth Israel was listed on the National Register 
of Historic Places in 2002.[11] Dorie Miller Residential Cooperative, built 
in 1952, comprises six buildings, containing 300 apartments, with 1,300 
rooms in total. The cooperative is named after Doris "Dorie" Miller, a 
U.S. Naval hero at Pearl Harbor and the first African American recipient 
of the Navy Cross.[12] Among its original residents were jazz greats Nat 
Adderley & Jimmy Heath; Kenneth and Corien Drew, publishers of Queens' 
first African-American newspaper, The Corona East Elmhurst News, Thelma 
E. Harris founder of Aburi Press and prominent Queens Judge Henry A, Slaughter. 
Corona was also the childhood home of Marie Maynard Daly. A biochemist, 
Daly was the first African American woman to earn a Ph.D. in Chemistry. 
Daly studied the effects of cholesterol on the mechanics of the heart, 
the effects of sugars and other nutrients on the health of arteries, and 
the breakdown of the circulatory system as a result of advanced age or 
hypertension; this scientist subsequently studied how proteins are produced 
and organized in the cell and the composition and metabolism of components 
of the cell nucleus. The Louis Armstrong House attracts visitors to the 
neighborhood and preserves the legacy of musician Louis Armstrong, one 
of Corona's most prominent historical residents. It was designated a National 
Historic Landmark in 1976.[11] According to the 2010 Census, the total 
population of Corona was about 110,000.[13] Corona is overwhelmingly Hispanic 
with all other demographics (Asian, black, and non-Hispanic white) being 
definitively below the borough average.[14] Corona/East Elmhurst also houses 
one of the most extensive collections of African American art and literature 
in the Langston Hughes Community Library and Cultural Center, which serves 
Queens with reference and circulating collections, totaling approximately 
30,000 volumes of materials written about or relating to black culture. 
The Black Heritage Reference Center of Queens County includes books, periodicals, 
theses and dissertations, VHS videos, cassettes and CDs, photographs, posters, 
prints, paintings, and sculpture. Cultural arts programs are scheduled 
through the Center. Meeting space is available to community organizations 
by application. Special features of the Center include: The IRT Flushing 
Line (7 <7> trains) runs through the neighborhood with stops at Mets – 
Willets Point, 111th Street, 103rd Street – Corona Plaza, and Junction 
Boulevard.[15] The Q19, Q23, Q33, Q48, Q49, Q58, Q66, and Q72 buses also 
serve the neighborhood.[16] Notable current and former residents of Corona 
include: Chinatowns: Other articles: Coordinates: 40°44′06″N 73°51′54″W﻿ 
