Corpus Christi (/ˈkɔːrpəs ˈkrɪsti/), is a coastal city in the South Texas 
region of the U.S. state of Texas. The county seat of Nueces County,[5] 
it also extends into Aransas, Kleberg, and San Patricio Counties. Corpus 
Christi is 130 miles southeast of San Antonio. The city's political boundaries 
encompass Nueces Bay and Corpus Christi Bay. Its zoned boundaries include 
small land parcels or water inlets of three neighboring counties. The city's 
population was estimated to be 320,434 in 2014, making it the eighth-most 
populous city in Texas. The Corpus Christi metropolitan area had an estimated 
population of 442,600.[1] The city is also the hub of the six-county Corpus 
Christi-Kingsville-Alice Combined Statistical Area, with a 2013 estimated 
population of 516,793. The Port of Corpus Christi is the fifth-largest 
in the United States. The region is served by the Corpus Christi International 
Airport. Its name (Corpus Christi) in Latin means Body of Christ. The name 
was given to the settlement and surrounding bay by Spanish explorer Alonso 
Álvarez de Pineda in 1519, as he discovered the lush semitropical bay on 
the Catholic feast day of Corpus Christi. The city has been nicknamed "Texas 
Riviera" and "Sparkling City by the Sea", particularly featured in tourist 
literature. Corpus Christi was founded in 1839 by Colonel Henry Lawrence 
Kinney as Kinney's Trading Post, or Kinney's Ranch. It was a small trading 
post that sold supplies to a Mexican revolutionary army camped about 25 mi 
(40 km) west.[6] In July 1845, U.S. troops commanded by General Zachary 
Taylor set up camp there in preparation for war with Mexico, where they 
remained until March 1846. About a year later, the settlement was named 
Corpus Christi and was incorporated on 9 September 1852.[7] The Battle 
of Corpus Christi was fought between August 12 and August 18, 1862, during 
the American Civil War. United States Navy forces blockading Texas fought 
a small land and sea engagement with Confederate forces in and around Corpus 
Christi Bay and bombarded the city. Union forces defeated Confederate States 
Navy ships operating in the area, but were repulsed when they landed on 
the coast.[citation needed] The Port of Corpus Christi was opened in 1926, 
and the Corpus Christi Naval Air Station was commissioned in 1941.[6] The 
1919 Storm devastated the city, killing hundreds on September 14. Only 
three structures survived the storm on North Beach.[8] To protect the city, 
the seawall was built. The city also suffered damage from Hurricane Celia 
in 1970 and Hurricane Allen in 1980, but little damage from Hurricane Ike 
in 2008. Corpus Christi is situated on fluvial deposits that are of Holocene 
- Pleistocene age. Although no solidified rock occurs naturally,[11] the 
Deweyville Formation of sand, silt, clay, and gravel, is locally indurated 
with calcium carbonate (caliche) deposits. According to the United States 
Census Bureau, Corpus Christi has a total area of 460.2 square miles (1,192.0 km2), 
of which 154.6 mi2 (400.5 km2, 33.60%) is land and 305.6 mi2 (791.5 km2, 
66.40%) is covered by water. Drinking water for the city is supplied by 
three reservoirs, Lake Corpus Christi, the Choke Canyon Reservoir, and 
Lake Texana. Through an effective regional partnership with the Nueces 
River Authority and the Port of Corpus Christi Authority, a 101 mi (163 km) 
pipeline was built which transports water from Lake Texana to the city's 
O.N. Stevens Water Treatment Plant. It was named the Mary Rhodes Pipeline, 
after the late mayor. A phase 2 of the pipeline is underway to draw water 
from the Colorado River.[12] All reservoirs are outside the city limits, 
but Lake Corpus Christi and Choke Canyon Reservoir are managed directly 
by the public utility of the City of Corpus Christi. To support future 
water needs, plans are being completed to build a desalinization plant.[13] 
Since its founding, the city has annexed nearby lands and waters for growth 
and development purposes. The original area encompassed several city blocks 
in present-day downtown Corpus Christi with the majority of city expansion 
occurring in the 20th century.[14] The city has a humid subtropical climate, 
with hot summers and very short, mild winters. In the months from November 
through February the weather is the coolest. There is a noticeable warming 
trend in which March through April is fairly warm. The warmest part of 
the year in Corpus Christi is June through September with August being 
the peak of summer. October in the city is very pleasant while still warm 
but not as hot as the summer months. Corpus Christi is very windy, with 
wind speeds often reaching to 25 miles per hour (40 km/h) with gusts reaching 
more than 35 miles per hour (56 km/h). The city's record high temperature 
is 109 °F (43 °C), on September 5, 2000. Average night-time winter lows 
in January, the coldest month, are a little less than 50 °F (10 °C) and 
its record low is 11 °F (−12 °C). In December 2004, the city experienced 
snowfall on Christmas Eve, the city's largest recorded snowstorm at 4.4 
inches (11 cm). The snow melted the day after Christmas. Because of the 
uniqueness of the event, three separate books were made documenting the 
event, Snow, More Snow, and More Snow for Kids, all with the theme of the 
South Texas Christmas miracle.[15] At the 2010 Census, 305,215 people resided 
in Corpus Christi, a 10.0% increase since 2000.[20] In 2012, Corpus Christi 
was ranked as the second least literate city in the U.S. in a study by 
Central Connecticut State University. [21] According to the 2010 Census, 
80.9% of Corpus Christi's population was White; 4.3% was African American; 
1.8% Asian; 0.1% Pacific Islander; 10.4% of some other race; and 2.5% of 
two or more races. About 62.23% of Corpus Christi's population was of Hispanic 
or Latino origin, of any race.[20] At the census[3] of 2000, 277,454 people, 
98,791 households, and 70,437 families resided in the city. The population 
density was 1,794.2 people per square mile (692.7/km2). The 107,831 housing 
units averaged 697.3 per square mile (269.2/km2). The racial makeup of 
the city was 71.62% White, 4.67% African American, 0.64% Native American, 
1.28% Asian, 0.08% Pacific Islander, 18.58% from other races, and 3.13% 
from two or more races. Hispanics of any race were 54.33% of the population. 
Of the 98,791 households, 36.1% had children under the age of 18 living 
with them, 50.9% were married couples living together, 15.4% had a female 
householder with no husband present, and 28.7% were not families. About 
23.2% of all households were made up of individuals, and 7.9% had someone 
living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size 
was 2.75 and the average family size was 3.27. In the city, the population 
was distributed as 28.1% under the age of 18, 10.6% from 18 to 24, 29.2% 
from 25 to 44, 21.0% from 45 to 64, and 11.1% who were 65 years of age 
or older. The median age was 33 years. For every 100 females, there were 
95.6 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 92.2 males. 
The median income for a family was $41,672. Males had a median income of 
$31,863 versus $22,616 for females. The per capita income for the city 
was $17,419. About 14.1% of families and 17.6% of the population were below 
the poverty line, including 22.9% of those under age 18 and 15.5% of those 
age 65 or over. The majority of the population is employed in the services, 
wholesale and retail trades, and government sectors. Corpus Christi has 
an unemployment rate of 7.0% as of July 2012.[22] The Port of Corpus Christi, 
which is the fifth-largest U.S. port[23] and deepest inshore port on the 
Gulf of Mexico, handles mostly oil and agricultural products. Much of the 
local economy is driven by tourism and the oil and petrochemicals industry. 
In 2005, the port was ranked as the 47th-largest in the world by cargo 
tonnage. Corpus Christi is home to Naval Air Station Corpus Christi providing 
6,200 civilian jobs to the local economy, making it the single largest 
employer in the city. Corpus Christi Army Depot, located on NAS Corpus 
Christi, is the largest helicopter repair facility in the world.[7] Additionally 
located on NAS Corpus Christi is the United States Coast Guard Sector/Air 
Station Corpus Christi. Corpus Christi is the original home of the headquarters 
of Whataburger, a fast-food restaurant operator and franchiser with 650 
stores in 10 states and Mexico; however, the company relocated its headquarters 
to San Antonio in 2009. Other large employers include CHRISTUS Spohn Health 
System at 5,400 local employees, the Corpus Christi Independent School 
District with 5,178, H-E-B at 5,000, and Bay Ltd. at 2,100.[24] Other companies 
based in Corpus Christi include Stripes Convenience Stores and AEP Texas.[25][26] 
Corpus Christi became the first major city to offer city-wide free wi-fi 
in April 2005 [27] to allow remote meter reading after a meter reader was 
attacked by a dog. In 2007, the network was purchased by Earthlink for 
$5.5 million, and stopped being a free service on May 31, 2007.[28] Various 
sections of Corpus Christi maintain distinct senses of identity and community 
from the city proper, especially the Calallen and Flour Bluff areas. Clarkwood 
and Annaville have a less prominent sense of identity, but the distinction 
remains. These areas are sometimes mistakenly believed to be separate municipalities. 
The city has many demographic groups, ethnicities, and subcultures, each 
giving it a distinct flavor: the defense bases and the people who work 
there; the large Hispanic community; the oil-related professionals and 
workers; the cowboy culture; and the surfers. In 2015, Men's Health magazine 
ranked Corpus Christi as the fattest city in the United States, renaming 
it "Corpulent Christi".[29] Obesity and Diabetes rank 2nd and 3rd in the 
nation, respectively, along with the fact that the city ranks extremely 
high in the lack of physical activity and the number of fast food restaurants.[29] 
The city is home to a number of popular destinations for both tourists 
and residents. The official visitor and tourism information organization 
is the Corpus Christi Convention and Visitors Bureau. Some of the most 
visited attractions are located on North Beach, where the Texas State Aquarium 
and the USS Lexington Museum on the Bay are located.[30] The USS Lexington 
was also part of the set for the 2000 film Pearl Harbor. Corpus Christi's 
museum district is located near the USS Lexington. Some attractions located 
in the museum district are the Museum of Asian Cultures, the Corpus Christi 
Museum of Science and History, the South Texas Institute for the Arts, 
and the Harbor Playhouse Theatre, one of the oldest continually operating 
community theatres in Texas. Heritage Park is also in the museum district, 
where a number of older restored houses can be found. The downtown area, 
of which the museum district is a part, is home to skyscrapers such as 
One Shoreline Plaza, company offices, various shops, a very popular center 
of marinas, and Mirador de la Flor. Downtown also is home of the Texas 
Surf Museum, which explores the history of surfing and focuses on surf 
culture along Texas' 367-mile (591 km) coast, as well as K Space Contemporary, 
a nonprofit art organization promoting and presenting local, regional, 
and national contemporary art. The Corpus Christi Botanical Gardens and 
Nature Center, also located in the city, hosts gardening programs from 
time to time. On Oso Bay near the Pharaoh Valley subdivision is the Hans 
and Pat Suter Wildlife Refuge. The refuge is known for seabird-watching. 
The nearby Pharaohs golf course also serves as a haven for coastal and 
migratory birds. Directly east of Corpus Christi are Padre Island and Mustang 
Island, home to various municipal, state, and national parks, most notably 
the Padre Island National Seashore. The city is also near King Ranch, one 
of the world's largest ranches, upon which the movie Giant was based. The 
city also celebrates the annual Buccaneer Days Carnival, which is typically 
held downtown. S. Padre Island Drive (locally abbreviated as "S.P.I.D.", 
with the letters pronounced individually), is the city's main retail corridor, 
with two shopping malls, La Palmera (formerly Padre Staples Mall), and 
Sunrise Mall. Also, a number of other large shopping centers, small strip 
centers, and restaurants can be found throughout the city. Corpus Christi 
also is the home of Midget Ocean Racing Fleet, also known as MORF, which 
promotes sailing in the Coastal Bend. The Wednesday night races held by 
MORF are the longest-running weekly races in the United States. The city 
is home to the Corpus Christi IceRays of the North American Hockey League, 
the Corpus Christi Hooks of the Texas League, and the Corpus Christi Rage 
of Arena Developmental League. Sailing races are held weekly off downtown's 
T-heads every Wednesday, where spectators watch vessels competing during 
sunset. Corpus Christi is also home to the Corpus Christi Rugby Football 
Club, which is a member of the Texas Rugby Union, an affiliate of the Western 
Rugby Union and of the United States Rugby Football Union. The city's location 
beside Corpus Christi Bay, the Gulf of Mexico, and Laguna Madre provides 
opportunities for water sports and nature tourism. Waterfowl hunting is 
available in the region for duck, geese, coot, and teal. White-winged dove 
and mourning dove are also hunted on private leases. The brushland inland 
from Corpus Christi is also ideal for hunting feral hogs and white-tailed 
deer. Fishing is a popular recreational activity in Corpus Christi. Popular 
fishing activities include fishing from various piers around Corpus Christi 
Bay, wade fishing in Oso Bay, and fishing from the Gulf of Mexico at Packery 
Channel or at Bob Hall Pier. The city has one of the highest average wind 
speeds of coastal cities in North America.[31] Combined with the Bay Front 
area along Ocean Drive, making the city an important destination for wind 
sports such as kite boarding, wind surfing, kite flying, and sailing. In 
1990, Corpus Christi hosted the Windsurfing World Championships. The Corpus 
Christi Skate Park opened on February 17, 2007. It is located in Cole Park 
on the shoreline of the Corpus Christi Bay near downtown. The 12,000-square-foot 
(1,100 m2) concrete park includes a skating bowl and a street course with 
stairs, railings, and flat surfaces. Being a coastal city, Corpus Christi 
is a good spot for seabird watching. Popular spots include Blucher Park 
in downtown, the Hans and Pat Suter Wildlife Refuge along Oso Bay, Hazel 
Bazemore County Park along the Nueces River in Calallen, and the South 
Texas Botanic Garden and Nature Center along the Oso Creek.[32] In 1852, 
the City of Corpus Christi was incorporated. Texas' 31st Legislature chartered 
the city as a political and corporate municipal entity in 1909. By ordinance, 
the city possesses power to "fix, alter and extend its boundaries."[33] 
Corpus Christi is under a council-manager municipal government. The elected 
city council is the primary authority in municipal matters such as enacting 
local legislation, determining policies, and appointing the city manager. 
Together, the city council and city manager execute laws and administer 
the municipal government.[33] Organized by governmental sectors of city 
council, city management, city secretary, and several city departments, 
Corpus Christi is seated in Nueces County. The city council currently consists 
of these elected members: Corpus Christi City Manager Ronald L. Olson was 
appointed in March 2011, and works alongside Assistant City Managers Margie 
C. Rose (general government), Oscar Martinez (public works and utilities), 
Susan K. Thorpe (safety, health, and neighborhoods), and Wesley S. Pierson 
(business support services). The city's Intergovernmental Relations department 
is under the direction of Tom Tagliabue. Appointed by the city council, 
Armando Chapa serves as the city secretary.[35] The Corpus Christi City 
Charter was adopted by public referendum in 1987, with amendments to the 
entire charter conducted January 19, 1991, and April 3, 1993. Further revisions 
to the charter were conducted on November 2, 2004, and November 7, 2006.[36] 
The charter consists of 10 articles and 41 sections regarding stipulations 
of home rule government, city council and city manager procedures, administration, 
planning, boards and commissions, etc. The Code of Ordinances of Corpus 
Christi was codified through Ordinance No. 028493, and adopted Feb. 23, 
2010.[37] The Texas 13th Court of Appeals is located in the Nueces County 
Courthouse in Corpus Christi.[38] The Texas Department of Criminal Justice 
operates the Corpus Christi Parole Office in Corpus Christi.[39] The United 
States Postal Service operates the Corpus Christi Post Office, the city's 
main post office,[40] and several station post offices. Corpus Christi 
is home to several institutions of higher learning: Texas A&M University-Corpus 
Christi, Del Mar College, Saint Leo University-Corpus Christi and numerous 
vocational schools, including Southern Careers Institute, South Texas Vo-Tech, 
Career Centers of Texas-Corpus Christi, and Vogue Cosmetology School. The 
city is also home to the South Texas School of Christian Studies located 
on Ward Island alongside Texas A&M-Corpus Christi. The school serves as 
an extension campus on the undergraduate level for Hardin Simmons University 
and on the graduate level for Logsdon Seminary of Hardin-Simmons. Texas 
A&M University-Corpus Christi is a component of the Texas A&M University 
System. It was formerly known as Corpus Christi State University, Texas 
A&I University at Corpus Christi, and University of Corpus Christi. Saint 
Leo University Corpus Christi Education Center is located at Corpus Christi's 
Naval Air Station. Del Mar College is a local community college begun in 
the 1940s at a location behind Wynn Seale Jr. High School. The main campus 
began with the administration building, which was constructed after World 
War II on Del Mar. The college grew to encompass a good portion of a residential 
addition called Southmoreland built from the Bohemian farm lands in the 
late 1930s. Del Mar now includes a west campus located in area of Corpus 
Christi that once was Cliff Maus Airport. Southern Careers Institute offers 
career training at two Corpus Christi locations, primarily in the medical, 
business, and cosmetology fields. In 2015, WalletHub ranked Corpus Christi 
near the bottom, 138 out of 150 cities in America, for its low educational 
level and low income opportunities.[41] In 2014, Time magazine ranked Corpus 
Christi the second least literate city in America.[42] Time cited poor 
reading habits and literacy scores, low education attainment rates and 
the fact that less than one in five adults in Corpus Christi had at least 
a bachelor's degree in 2012, which was among the lowest ratios compared 
with other large cities.[42] Six school districts provide primary and secondary 
education for area residents: Corpus Christi Independent School District, 
Calallen ISD, Flour Bluff ISD, Tuloso-Midway ISD, West Oso ISD, and London 
ISD. The Roman Catholic Diocese of Corpus Christi provides the primary 
and secondary education for Catholic schools. Several Open Enrollment Charter 
Schools are in Corpus Christi. These public schools are: Accelerated Learning 
Center, Cesar E Chavez Academy, Corpus Christi College Preparatory HS, 
Corpus Christi Montessori School, Dr ML Garza-Gonzalez Charter School, 
GCCLR Institute of Technology, Premier HS of Corpus Christi, Richard Milburn 
Academy, School of Science and Technology, Seashore Learning Center, and 
Seashore Middle Academy. High Schools Middle Schools Elementary Schools 
Alternative Libraries in the city include:[43] TexShare card holders also 
have limited borrowing privileges at these area libraries:[44] Corpus Christi 
is served by Corpus Christi International Airport and Interstate 37. Interstate 
69E/U.S. Highway 77 connects the city to Brownsville and Victoria. Texas 
State Highway 44 is a main thoroughfare that connects Corpus Christi to 
Laredo and the western part of South Texas by way of Interstate 69W/U.S. 
Highway 59, Interstate 35, and U.S. Highway 83. The inner-city public transportation 
is provided by Corpus Christi Regional Transportation Authority with its 
28 bus routes. Corpus Christi once had a streetcar system functioning from 
1910 to 1931 and a railway station (passenger service ended in 1965). Despite 
the convenience of a large harbor, the city does not have a passenger port. 
Plans to bring a cruise service are pending. The city is accessed by two 
major bridges, the Harbor Bridge (US 181) and the John F. Kennedy Causeway 
(PR 22). Both bridges are maintained by the Texas Department of Transportation. 
Freight service from San Antonio to Corpus Christi is provided by the Union 
Pacific Railroad, but the original line, both freight and passenger, was 
the San Antonio, Uvalde and Gulf Railroad, which operated to Corpus Christi 
from 1913 to 1956.[45] Then the SAU&G, or "The Sausage", as it was commonly 
called, was merged into the Missouri Pacific Railroad. It was subsequently 
procured by the Union Pacific.[46] Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi 
campus. A replica of Niña now on display the Corpus Christi Museum of Science 
and History. The Harbor Bridge crossing into Corpus Christi Mirador de 
la Flor Selena memorial Corpus Christi keeps a thriving and active relationship 
