Cory Fulton Lidle (March 22, 1972 – October 11, 2006) was an American professional 
baseball player. A right-handed pitcher, Lidle spent nine seasons in Major 
League Baseball with seven different teams. Lidle was killed when the small 
aircraft he owned crashed into a residential building in New York City.[1] 
Lidle graduated from South Hills High School in West Covina, California 
in 1990 and was signed in 1990 by the Minnesota Twins as an amateur free 
agent. After his release in 1993, he was signed by the Milwaukee Brewers. 
Due to his participation as a replacement player during the 1994 Major 
League Baseball strike, he was ineligible to join the MLB Players Union. 
He was then traded in 1996 to the New York Mets, with whom he made his 
major league debut on May 8, 1997.[citation needed] Lidle later appeared 
for the Tampa Bay Devil Rays, Oakland Athletics, Toronto Blue Jays, Cincinnati 
Reds, Philadelphia Phillies and New York Yankees. His best season was 2001, 
when he achieved a 13-6 record with a 3.59 ERA (10th in the American League) 
for Oakland, helping the Athletics win the wild card. His career zenith 
occurred in August 2002,[citation needed] when he gave up only one run 
during the whole month (setting Oakland's record for consecutive innings 
without an earned run), won all five of his starts, and was one of the 
prime movers in the A's historic run of 20 straight wins. It was on this 
Oakland team where he earned the nickname "Snacks", for his apparent love 
of "inhaling" junk food in the bullpen.[2][3] In 2007, Lidle was posthumously 
inducted into the Binghamton Baseball Shrine since he had played for the 
Double-A Binghamton Mets (New York Mets). On July 30, 2006, Lidle was traded 
along with outfielder Bobby Abreu from the Philadelphia Phillies to the 
New York Yankees for minor league shortstop C. J. Henry, the Yankees' first 
round pick in the 2005 draft, along with left-handed reliever Matt Smith, 
minor league catcher Jesús Sánchez, and minor league right-hander Carlos 
Monasterios. After being traded, he criticized his former team: "On the 
days I'm pitching, it's almost a coin flip as to know if the guys behind 
me are going to be there to play 100 percent." He noted he was joining 
a Yankee team that expects to win all the time: "That's why I'm most excited 
about it. Sometimes I felt I got caught up kind of going into the clubhouse 
nonchalantly sometimes, because all the other guys in the clubhouse didn't 
go there with one goal in mind."[4] In his first start for the Yankees, 
he went six innings, giving up one run on four hits, en route to an 8-1 
Yankee victory as part of a sweep against the Toronto Blue Jays.[5] On 
August 21, 2006, he went six three-hit shutout innings, completing an improbable 
five-game sweep (in four days) over the then second place Boston Red Sox 
(who went from 1 1⁄2 games behind to 6 1⁄2 games behind).[6] On October 
7, in his final game (Game 4 of the 2006 ALDS), he lasted only an inning 
and a third, allowing three earned runs on four hits as the Yankees lost 
to the Detroit Tigers, 8-3. He was criticized for telling a reporter, "We 
got matched up with a team that, I think, was a little more ready to play 
than we were," which was taken by some as a jab at manager Joe Torre. For 
damage control, he called the radio talk show Mike and the Mad Dog and 
gave an extended defense of himself and the Yankees.[7] The snippy exchange 
was punctuated by co-host Chris Russo's implication that Lidle was not 
entitled to "enjoy a day in New York" and co-host Mike Francesa commenting, 
"I haven't thought much about you at all, to be honest with you." Following 
reports of his death, both hosts of the popular New York radio show expressed 
remorse for their hostility to him.[8][9] Lidle threw an 88–90 mph fastball 
with cut and sink. He threw a low-70s curveball to keep hitters off balance, 
and a low-80s slider. He was a finesse pitcher who had to rely on changing 
speeds and pinpoint location. On October 11, 2006, Lidle and co-pilot/flight 
instructor Tyler Stanger were flying a Cirrus SR20 airplane when it crashed 
into the Belaire Apartments complex at 527 East 72nd Street on New York 
City's Upper East Side, killing them both.[10] The plane was flying above 
the East River past the Queensboro Bridge toward restricted airspace. A 
strong wind from the east due to an incoming front caused the plane to 
be blown into the building as it was making a 180-degree turn. In addition 
to the deaths of Lidle and Stanger, 21 were injured in the accident, about 
half of them New York City firefighters.[11][12] Lidle was the third Yankee 
to die in a plane crash. The prior two were catcher Thurman Munson (on 
August 2, 1979) and pitcher Jim Hardin (on March 9, 1991). Yankees owner 
George Steinbrenner described Lidle's death as a "terrible and shocking 
tragedy that has stunned the entire Yankees organization" and offered his 
condolences to Lidle's wife and six-year-old son.[13] On October 12, 2006, 
before the 2006 NLCS game in New York City between the New York Mets and 
the St. Louis Cardinals, both teams and all spectators observed a moment 
of silence in Lidle's memory.[14] The Yankees wore black armbands during 
the entire 2007 season in memory of Lidle.[15] On April 2, 2007, Cory's 
widow Melanie and his son Christopher both threw the ceremonial first pitch 
on Opening Day at Yankee Stadium. Melanie Lidle attended the 2007 graduation 
ceremony at Mt. San Antonio College in Walnut, California. The community 
college's aviation team flew across the graduation field during the ceremony 
to pay respect to both Lidle and Stanger. Lidle is buried in Forest Lawn 
Memorial Park - Covina Hills, in Covina, California. One of the baseball 
fields at West Covina's Cortez Park is named "Cory Lidle Field" in his 
memory.[citation needed] Lidle's twin brother, Kevin, also played baseball, 
as a catcher for several minor league teams. He was a descendant of Robert 
Fulton, the inventor of the steamboat, as reflected in his middle name.[16] 
