Craig Steven Swan (born November 30, 1950) was a Major League Baseball 
pitcher from 1973 to 1984 for the New York Mets and California Angels. 
Swan's best season came in 1978 when he posted a 9–6 win–loss record and 
led the National League with an earned run average of 2.43. This was significant 
as the Mets were in the National League East cellar that year. Swan featured 
a fastball between 90 and 95 miles per hour with good movement and an occasional 
slider.[1] Swan was born in Van Nuys, California. At age 14, he pitched 
for Long Beach in the PONY League, hurled a no-hitter, and was invited 
to throw out the ceremonial first pitch at Dodger Stadium before Game 5 
of the 1965 World Series; his pitch was televised and can be seen on the 
TV broadcast, with announcer Ray Scott describing his pitching exploits. 
At age 17, was picked in the 23rd round of the 1968 Major League Baseball 
draft by the St. Louis Cardinals. Rather than sign as a low-round pick, 
Swan attended Arizona State University. In the 1972 College World Series, 
Swan allowed only one run in 18 innings pitched for a 0.50 ERA – tied for 
the best ever for 18 or more innings.[2] For his efforts, he was named 
to the All-Tournament Team but Arizona State lost to the University of 
Southern California in the championship game.[3][4] Swan was chosen by 
the Mets in the third round of the 1972 Major League Baseball draft. He 
spent most of 1972 to 1975 in the minor leagues with only brief (and poor) 
stints in the majors. One of his better early performances came on May 
11, 1974, when he personally out-played the opposition by collecting a 
career-high three hits, knocking in one run, and scoring another at the 
plate while allowing no runs on four hits over six innings on the mound. 
Later that season, he broke his elbow and missed significant playing time.[1] 
He returned successfully and, in 1975, was named the International League 
Most Valuable Pitcher.[5] Swan broke into the majors for good in 1976. 
In the Mets' last good season of the decade, Swan was the fifth starter 
and posted statistics slightly below the league average with a 3.54 ERA 
and a 6–9 record. His highlight was his first victory of the season when 
he pitched a five-hit complete game shutout with 11 strikeouts. He was 
inconsistent for the season. After four terrible starts, the following 
three starts resulted in just a single earned run on 13 hits and four walks 
over 26 innings with 21 strikeouts — a fantastic 0.35 ERA. In 1977, Swan's 
numbers declined slightly but so did the rest of the team's as number one 
starter, Jerry Koosman, lost 20 games and the Mets sank into last place 
in the division. In 1978, the Mets struggled to a 66–96 record but Swan 
started the season with a five-hit complete game shutout, the third of 
his career. In the second game of a July 4, 1978 doubleheader, Swan logged 
a career-high 13 strikeouts but surrendered two ninth-inning runs to lose 
the game 3–2. The loss dropped his record to 1–5 despite a very good 2.66 
ERA. Swan's ERA continued improving and he won his next seven decisions. 
On September 16, he allowed one run and three hits over nine innings but 
was again denied a win. At season's end, Swan had the best ERA in the National 
League as well as the second-best WHIP and second-best hits per nine innings. 
His ERA was only 1.67 at Shea Stadium. Despite his excellent statistics, 
he finished with only a 9–6 record. The Mets were the third-worst pitching 
team in the league, and they finished with the worst record in the N.L. 
1979 was another good season for Swan and was also his most active. He 
set career highs in innings pitched, games started, complete games, shutouts 
and BFP. Swan was the lone bright spot for the Mets' pitching staff. His 
14 wins were not only a career-best but were more than any two of his teammates 
combined. The Mets finished with 99 losses, again last in the National 
League. After his two good seasons for the Mets, Swan signed a contract 
which made him the highest paid pitcher in Mets history at the time.[1] 
In response, he began 1980 with an even better ERA than either 1978 or 
1979. In mid-June, he was 5–4 with a 2.21 ERA for another terrible Mets 
team. After losing his next four decisions, Swan was placed on the disabled 
list in mid-July with what turned out to be a torn rotator cuff.[1] He 
made two more starts a month later but pitched poorly in the first start, 
left the second start after only two innings, and was done for the season. 
He started 1981 with a loss but left his second game after only one batter 
in a freak play. Swan began the game by walking the first batter of the 
game on four straight pitches. On the fifth pitch of the game – also a 
ball – the runner on first base starting running to second base in order 
to "steal" second base. But Swan's rib was fractured when Ron Hodges—the 
Mets' catcher at the time—nailed him in the back with his throw towards 
second base when trying (unsuccessfully) to throw the runner out at second 
base. As a result, Swan landed on the disabled list. He returned more than 
a month later and made two relief appearances before the 1981 Major League 
Baseball strike cancelled the next two months. When play resumed, Swan 
was back on the disabled list and made only one more start the rest of 
the season. After missing almost all of 1981 with a rotator cuff injury, 
and the aforementioned broken rib[1] and a baseball strike, Swan returned 
well in 1982 and finished second to Joe Morgan for the N.L. Comeback Player 
of the Year Award. His 11 wins were again the highest total on the team 
and he was the only pitcher on the team with a winning record and more 
than three decisions. For the first time in his career, he accumulated 
significant time as a relief pitcher and managed a fantastic 1.30 ERA in 
the new role. Swan even hit the only home run of his career on August 4 
(although the event was drowned out when his teammate, Joel Youngblood, 
made history the same day by becoming the only player in major league history 
to play for two teams in two cities in one day). After his good comeback 
year of 1982, Swan felt something pop in his arm during a spring training 
game in 1983.[1] He pitched through the injury but it severely limited 
his endurance. He was again effective in relief but his ERA as a starter 
rose to a terrible 6.22. In 1984, while the Mets were finally ending years 
of futility, Swan managed only ten awful relief appearances before being 
released on May 9. The California Angels signed him two weeks later but 
he was benched for good after two more bad appearances which were the last 
of his career. After numerous injuries forced the end of his career, Swan 
used the medical knowledge he obtained from his ordeals to invest himself 
in the technique known as Rolfing. He graduated from the Rolf Institute 
in Boulder, Colorado and opened a practice in Connecticut.[1] Swan lives 
in Stamford, Connecticut. In 2002, he had two children in college and he 
credits Mets executive, Fred Wilpon, with helping to get his daughter into 
