Craig R. Wright pioneered the use of sabermetrics in major league baseball, 
and is a baseball writer and historian. He was a very early pioneer in 
integrating science into Major League Baseball and first began working 
under that premise for the Texas Rangers,[1] after the strike of 1981. 
He soon became the first front office employee to work under the title 
sabermetrician, but he abandoned the title around 1990 because he felt 
"... the meaning had shifted too far from a scientific approach to baseball 
to one focused on statistical analysis of baseball."[2] By the end of his 
career he appeared to be more comfortable being identified with the scouting 
community than with statistical analysts. In the 2000 media guide of the 
Colorado Rockies, he was listed in their scouting section as "Special Assignment 
Scout." This remained a hot topic in his philosophy in his writings during 
retirement. In a rare in-depth interview in 2010, he steadfastly maintained 
his alligiance to the value of a science of baseball while at the same 
time speaking at length about the dangers of focusing on statistical analysis 
to understand the game. "I’ve said it and written it many times: statistical 
analysis is too often taken for being science itself rather than a tool 
of science."[3] He worked full-time in major league baseball for over 20 
years, mainly in the area of scouting, player evaluation and acquisition.[4] 
His longest association with one big league team was the Los Angeles Dodgers, 
with whom he worked ten years as a year-round consultant during a period 
when they had the second best record in the league behind the Atlanta Braves. 
With Los Angeles, he significantly helped advance the career of Mike Piazza 
from non-prospect to blue chip prospect. Wright was an early proponent 
of Piazza's ability as a hitter and also argued for his staying at the 
catcher position. He pushed hard for Piazza's rapid advancement to the 
big leagues while persuasively arguing for the moves that cleared the way 
for Piazza to be the club's #1 catcher in his rookie year.[5][6] Along 
with Wright's consulting arrangements, from 1989 to 1996 he also provided 
a supplemental Advance Scout service for post-season play that was used 
by six pennant winners and four world champions. He ended that service 
to have the time to serve two years as a year-round consultant to the Arizona 
Diamondbacks in preparing for their expansion draft. The Diamondbacks' 
draft is the only expansion draft to produce a 40-homer player (Tony Batista) 
and two All-Stars who were not their team's token All-Star representative, 
i.e. not the only All-Star from their team (Batista and Damian Miller). 
Wright was the primary author of The Diamond Appraised (1989) with 10% 
of the material being provided by pitching coach Tom House.[7] With most 
of Wright's work taking place outside the public domain, it was a rare 
look at the type of work he was doing and how it was being used - or not 
used. In this book Wright was the first to give a sabermetric perspective 
on many issues within baseball, including the optimal way to utilize a 
bullpen and pitching rotation, how to better develop pitchers so that they 
are primed for future success, the significance of home field advantage, 
and catcher's ERA (CERA).[8] Wright's chapters on pitching included a ground-breaking 
study on pitcher workloads and how they might be better managed. They inspired 
a wealth of studies, and looking back at the book a dozen years later, 
Rany Jazayerli, one of the founders of Baseball Prospectus, called Wright's 
study one of the five most important ever done in baseball.[9] After The 
Diamond Appraised was translated into Japanese, the Hanshin Tigers of Japan's 
Central League became a client of his consulting service. The other client 
of Wright's business that was not a major league team was STATS, Inc.. 
For a dozen years they used Wright as a consultant to design their products 
for major league teams.[10] Despite his reservations about a central focus 
on statistical analysis to understand the game, Wright was well known for 
his general support of the sabermetric movement. He was one of the early 
members of SABR, served on the Board of Directors of Project Scoresheet, 
the forerunner of Retrosheet, and he was very open about his appreciation 
of the early work by Bill James when such a view was still anathema in 
MLB. In turn, James called Wright a "brilliant analyst of the game," praised 
his pioneering work, and singled him out for his generous contributions 
to Bill's work in fine-tuning his concept of Win Shares. Wright repeatedly 
gave recommendations, help, and encouragement to those who aspired to similar 
careers in baseball, including Eddie Epstein, Mat Olkin, John Sickels, 
Keith Woolner, and Bill James. In his retirement from major league baseball, 
he has responded to offers of employment from the teams by making recommendations 
of others from the sabermetric community. Wright was the researcher and 
writer of the radio show A Page from Baseball's Past which was a pre-game 
show for various major league teams for 26 years.[11] He created the show 
with producer Eric Nadel who was also the voice of the show. In 2008 Wright 
began doing a subscription text version that is still popular today. Bill 
James, author of the popular Bill James Historical Baseball Abstract has 
praised the new text version as "... just excellent. I learn a lot from 
reading it." Few details were publicly known about Wright's pioneering 
career until he wrote a few vignettes about that period on his web site 
for "The Diamond Appraised Baseball Column" that he wrote for three years. 
They currently remain available in the biography section on Wright in relation 
to the radio show A Page from Baseball's Past. Of particular interest is 
the very different take he has on those early days of sabermetrics in major 
league baseball that is quite at odds with the theme in Michael Lewis's 
Moneyball. Lewis portrayed the early practitioners within the game as simply 
being ignored. Wright acknowledges that very few teams back then were adding 
such a perspective, and that the general usage was at times on a small 
scale, but he makes a strong case that there were pockets where it was 
not only valued but had real impact. He gives interesting examples from 
his career and he scores a key point with his question: "All my contracts 
were 1-year contracts. Do you really think teams are going to keep shelling 
out the money year after year just to have you give advice that they will 
ignore?"[12] In remembering Wright's work with the Texas Rangers, GM Tom 
Grieve said in a 1999 interview: "He was an important asset to the club," 
and added, "The more I know Craig, the more I respect him."[13] Dodgers 
GM Fred Claire echoed that: "I was very impressed by [Wright's] approach, 
his evaluation process. ... Craig added some valuable input to the process. 
... I felt he was very good as it related to players in not only their 
major league careers, but also in their minor league careers. ...Craig 
was able to add a different dimension with his own analysis. ... I can 
recall when we signed Tom Candiotti [in 1991] we were looking at free agent 
pitchers, and Craig felt he could be a guy who could give a lot of innings 
and pitch successfully."[14] (Ignoring the more soughtafter free agent 
starting pitchers - including All-Star Frank Viola, whom Wright correctly 
assessed as headed for arm trouble - the Dodgers signed Candiotti to a 
bargain contract and he ended up outperforming the rest of his free agent 
class. During that four-year contract he led the Dodgers in innings and 
ERA, and his 3.38 ERA was the fourth best in the whole league.) After five 
years of working with Wright, Claire advised him that he would make a good 
GM and urged him to apply for a vacancy in St. Louis with his recommendation. 
This was in the fall of 1994, long before the Moneyball era.[15] Wright 
is semi-retired and lives in Montana where he writes about baseball, and 
occasionally does a consulting project for a big league team. When asked 
if he would ever return to major league baseball, he has said it is "very 
unlikely," and that he would never accept a job that would move him from 
Montana. But he adds, "I have a distinct vision of where things should 
go from here in the application of the science of baseball within major 
league baseball. If a team wanted to explore that vision and decided they 
wanted my help in bringing it to life – that would certainly catch my attention." 
[16] Wright currently maintains one subscription service: Pages From Baseball's 
Past. Rob Neyer, then a senior baseball writer for ESPN.com advised his 
readers: "I'm not one of those people who refuses to pay for anything on 
the Web, ... but if I could pay for just one thing, it would probably be 
Craig Wright's baseball writing."[17] Wright's latest book is a collection 
from the story series Pages from Baseball's Past (Volume 1) and has received 
exceptional reviews. He is currently working on a second volume expected 
to release in May or June of 2016. Eric Nadel, recipient of the Ford C. 
Frick award wrote: "There is no more passionate baseball historian than 
Craig Wright. His stories are fascinating, well researched and well written. 
Craig has a wonderful gift for telling intriguing stories that we have 
never heard, and providing little known details of familiar tales. ... 
The photographs are priceless, and the research notes impossible to ignore. 
For any baseball fan, this book is a true treasure....long overdue....a 
