Frank Angelo Joseph "Creepy" Crespi (February 16, 1918 – March 1, 1990) 
was a Major League Baseball player who played infielder from 1938-1942 
for the St. Louis Cardinals. He made his major league debut on 14 September 
1938 playing second base for the Cardinals. In 1951, longtime Cardinals 
star shortstop Marty Marion praised Crespi as the best defensive second 
baseman he'd ever played with. "For one year—1941—Crespi was the best second 
baseman I ever saw. He did everything, and sensationally." [1] Frank Crespi's 
nickname, 'Creepy', is widely considered one of the more colorful and unusual 
names in baseball history. In a 1977 radio interview with future hall-of-fame 
broadcaster Jack Buck, Creepy was asked if people still called him by his 
nickname (answer was yes). Jack followed up with, "Why do they call you 
that?" Crespi replied, "Well, it's an involved thing...I used to hear a 
lot of different stories. But I think the best one is (from) some sportswriter. 
He said the way I creep up on a ball, because I run low to the ground after 
a ground ball." [2] Although Crespi lost the starting second base job for 
the Cardinals in 1942 to Jimmy Brown, he still appeared in 93 games that 
season. The Cardinals won the National League pennant and played the New 
York Yankees in the 1942 World Series. Crespi played in one game in the 
World Series, serving as a pinch runner in game 1, and scoring a run. The 
Cardinals won the series, four games to one.[3] Crespi was drafted into 
the army in early 1943. Though he qualified for a deferment as the sole 
supporter of his elderly mother, he refused, claiming, "I don't think I'm 
too good to fight for the things I've always enjoyed." [4] During an Army 
baseball game in Kansas, he suffered a compound fracture of his left leg 
while turning a double play.[4] Soon afterwards, he broke the same leg 
during a training accident, and later he broke it a third time during an 
impromptu wheelchair race while in the hospital.[5] While he was recuperating 
at the hospital, a nurse accidentally applied 100 times the appropriate 
quantity of boric acid to his bandages, causing severe burns on Crespi's 
leg and leaving him with a permanent limp.[4][6] According to Marty Marion, 
a total of 23 operations were performed on Crespi's leg.[1] In an attempt 
to qualify for the major league pension plan, Crespi applied various times 
as coach. Unable to obtain the position, he became a budget analyst for 
McDonnell Douglas, where he worked for 20 years.[4] After his retirement 
from McDonnell Douglas, Crespi discovered that he had not been retired 
from baseball, but rather had been on the disabled list, when the major 
league had first implemented its pension plan during the 1940s. This discovery 
entitled Crespi to his major league pension.[4] Crespi died of a heart 
