Cricket in the United States is a sport played at the amateur, club, intercollegiate, 
and international competition levels. There have also been several recent 
attempts to form professional cricket leagues in the United States. It 
has been generally agreed by sports historians that cricket, besides the 
Native American sport lacrosse, was both the first organized team sport 
and the first major team sport in the United States.[1] Cricket was played 
by British colonists in North America by the start of the 18th century.[2] 
Archived references to cricket played in America date from 1709. A New 
York newspaper from 1739 contains an advertisement for cricket players 
and the first documented competition occurred in 1751 in Manhattan. Cricket 
received a significant amount of media coverage at the time. The sport 
was played in approximately 125 cities in 22 states. Roughly 500 officially 
established clubs existed and it is probable that in 1860 there were 10,000 
boys and men in America who had actively played the sport for at least 
a season.[3] Dartmouth College students were playing cricket on the Green 
by 1793.[4] Haverford College formed a cricket team in 1833. In recent 
years Haverford is one of the few post-secondary institutions to field 
a cricket team at the varsity level; hence, most of Haverford's opponents 
are collegiate club-level teams.[5] Clubs from the United States and Canada 
participated in one of the first international cricket matches on record 
in 1844 in Bloomingdale Park in Manhattan.[6] In 2004 Pro Cricket was organized 
as a professional Twenty20 format league with eight teams in two divisions. 
However, the league closed at the end of its first season in 2004. The 
Pro Cricket league was independent of the USACA and not recognized or sanctioned 
by it. International Cricket was nonexistent until recently when the United 
States national cricket team started playing in the World Cricket League.[citation 
needed] Cricket in the United States is run by the United States of America 
Cricket Association, whose effectiveness is lessened by limited funds due 
to cricket's lack of popularity compared to other sports. The United States 
cricket team is currently unranked in Test Cricket and One Day International 
cricket. There are only a few purpose-built cricket grounds in the United 
States, they include the Germantown Cricket Club Ground and the Philadelphia 
Cricket Club Ground[8] in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the Randolph St. 
George Walker Park on Staten Island, New York; the Central Broward Regional 
Park in Lauderhill, Florida; and the Leo Magnus Cricket Complex in Van 
Nuys, California. The Indianapolis World Sports Park in Indianapolis, Indiana, 
which features cricket grounds, was completed in 2014, and hosted the USACA's 
national championship that year.[9] The game is also played on a number 
of shared purpose venues, they include Van Cortlandt Stadium in Bronx, 
New York and others. The main cricket grounds in the USA include: The United 
States of America Cricket Association (USACA) is the governing body for 
International Cricket Council (ICC) sanctioned cricket in the United States. 
The ICC recognized the USACA as an associate member starting in 1965. In 
2005 the USACA was suspended from an ICC sponsored annual conference due 
to problems with USACA elections, but that suspension was lifted in March 
2006.[10] In 2007 the USACA was again suspended by the ICC because of problems 
with its administration and constitution, but was again recognized beginning 
on April 1, 2008.[10] The national association organizes play within and 
between seven regional conferences,[11] which may contain several leagues. 
A league is a group of 8 or more teams that play according to a schedule.[12] 
Competition is held at various age levels including under-19, under-15, 
senior, etc. The USACA holds a National Senior Tournament as well as national 
and international competitions for other age groups. In 2006 it was estimated 
that 30,000 people in the United States play or watch cricket annually.[5] 
Cricket in the United States is not as popular as baseball and is not as 
popular among as large a fraction of the population as it is within either 
the Commonwealth nations or the other ICC full member (or Test cricket) 
nations.[13] There are at least two historical reasons for the relative 
obscurity of cricket within the United States. One reason was the 19th-century-rise 
of the summer time bat and ball sport now called baseball, which seems 
to have displaced cricket as a popular pastime.[13] Another reason was 
that in 1909 when the ICC was originally organized as the Imperial Cricket 
Conference it was open only to Commonwealth nations and thereby excluded 
the US from participating in the sport at the highest level.[14] Nevertheless, 
in 1965 the US was admitted to the renamed ICC as an associate member and 
the sport grew in popularity in the second half of the 20th century. An 
oft mentioned reason for the growing popularity of cricket is the growing 
population of immigrants to the US who come from cricket playing nations.[5][13] 
With the launching of the United States Youth Cricket Association in 2010, 
a more focused effort to bring the game to American schools was begun, 
with the intention of broadening cricket's fan base beyond expatriates 
and their children.[15] ESPN has been stepping up its coverage of cricket 
in recent years, buying the cricket website Cricinfo in 2007, and broadcasting 
the final of the 2014 ICC World Twenty20 competition, the 2014 Indian Premier 
League, English County Championship games, and international test cricket.[16] 
