A cricket field consists of a large grassy ground on which the game of 
cricket is played; this is ostensibly an oval though most cricket grounds 
would more accurately be described either as a convex set or as a convex 
polygon with an infinite number of sides. Cricket grounds can be almost 
perfectly circular, elongated ovals or entirely irregular shapes with little 
or no symmetry – but they will have entirely curved boundaries, almost 
without exception. There are no fixed dimensions for the field but its 
diameter usually varies between 450 feet (137 m) and 500 feet (150 m). 
Cricket is unusual among major sports (along with Golf, Australian rules 
football and baseball) in that there is no official rule for a fixed-shape 
ground for professional games. On most grounds, a rope demarcates the perimeter 
of the field and is known as the boundary. Within the boundary and generally 
as close to the centre as possible will be the square which is an area 
of carefully prepared grass upon which cricket pitches can be prepared 
and marked for matches. The ICC Standard Playing Conditions define the 
minimum and maximum size of the playing surface for international matches. 
Law 19.1 of ICC Test match Playing Conditions states: "The playing area 
shall be a minimum of 150 yards (137.16 metres) from boundary to boundary 
square of the pitch, with the shorter of the two square boundaries being 
a minimum 65 yards (59.43 metres). The straight boundary at both ends of 
the pitch shall be a minimum of 70 yards (64.00 metres), measured from 
the centre of the pitch to be used. In all cases the aim shall be to provide 
the largest playing area, subject to no boundary exceeding 90 yards (82.29 
meters) from the centre of the pitch to be used. "[1] In addition, the 
conditions require a minimum three-yard gap between the "rope" and the 
surrounding fencing or advertising boards. This allow players to dive without 
risk of injury. The conditions contain a grandfather clause, which exempts 
stadiums built before October 2007. However, most stadiums which regularly 
host international games easily meet the minimum dimensions. It is worth 
noting that based on these guidelines, a cricket field must have at least 
16,000 square yards ((150+3+3)/2*(70+70+3+3-22/2)/2*pi) of grass area. 
A more realistic Test match stadium would have more than 20,000 square 
yards of grass (having a straight boundary of about 80m).[2] In contrast 
an association football field needs only about 9,000 square yards of grass, 
and an Olympic stadium would contain 13,500 square yards of grass within 
its 400m running track, making it impossible to play international cricket 
matches unless the stadium was specifically built for cricket. Nevertheless, 
Stadium Australia which hosted the Sydney Olympics in 2000 had its running 
track turfed over with 30,000 seats removed to make it possible to play 
cricket there, at a cost of A$80 million.[3] This is one of the reasons 
cricket games generally cannot be hosted outside the traditional cricket-playing 
countries, and a few non-Test nations like Canada, the UAE and Kenya that 
have built Test standard stadiums. Most of the action takes place in the 
centre of this ground, on a rectangular clay strip usually with short grass 
called the pitch. The pitch measures 22 yards (20 m) long. At each end 
of the pitch three upright wooden stakes, called the stumps, are hammered 
into the ground. Two wooden crosspieces, known as the bails, sit in grooves 
atop the stumps, linking each to its neighbour. Each set of three stumps 
and two bails is collectively known as a wicket. One end of the pitch is 
designated the batting end where the batsman stands and the other is designated 
the bowling end where the bowler runs in to bowl. The area of the field 
on the side of the line joining the wickets where the batsman holds his 
bat (the right-hand side for a right-handed batsman, the left for a left-hander) 
is known as the off side, the other as the leg side or on side. Lines drawn 
or painted on the pitch are known as creases. Creases are used to adjudicate 
the dismissals of batsmen and to determine whether a delivery is fair. 
For a one-innings match played over a set number of fair deliveries, there 
are two additional field markings. A painted oval is made by drawing a 
semicircle of 30 yards (27.4 m) radius from the centre of each wicket with 
respect to the breadth of the pitch and joining them with lines parallel, 
30 yards (27.4 m) to the length of the pitch. This line, commonly known 
as the circle, divides the field into an infield and outfield. Two circles 
of radius 15 yards (13.7 m), centred at middle stump guard on the popping 
crease and often marked by dots, define the close-infield. The infield, 
outfield, and the close-infield are used to enforce fielding restrictions. 
