A cricket ball is a hard, solid ball used to play cricket. A cricket ball 
consists of cork covered by leather, and manufacture is regulated by cricket 
law at first-class level. The manipulation of a cricket ball, through employment 
of its various physical properties, is a staple component of bowling and 
dismissing batsmen. Movement in the air, and off the ground, is influenced 
by the condition of the ball, the efforts of the bowler and the pitch, 
while working on the cricket ball to obtain optimum condition is a key 
role of the fielding side. The cricket ball is the principal manner through 
which the batsman scores runs, by manipulating the ball into a position 
where it would be safe to take a run, or by directing the ball through 
or over the boundary. In test cricket, professional domestic games that 
spread over a multitude of days, and almost the entirety of amateur cricket, 
the traditional red cricket ball is normally used. In many one day cricket 
matches, a white ball is used instead in order to remain visible under 
floodlights, and since 2010, pink has been introduced to contrast with 
players' white clothing and for improved night visibility.[1] Training 
balls of white, red and pink are also common, and tennis balls and other 
similar-sized balls can be used for training or informal cricket matches. 
During cricket matches, the quality of the ball changes to a point where 
it is no longer usable, and during this decline its properties alter and 
thus can influence the match. Altering the state of the cricket ball outside 
the permitted manners designated in the rules of cricket is prohibited 
during a match, and so-called "ball tampering" has resulted in numerous 
controversies. Injuries and fatalities have been caused by cricket balls 
during matches.[2] The hazards posed by cricket balls were a key motivator 
for the introduction of protective equipment. British Standard BS 5993 
specifies the construction details, dimensions, quality and performance 
of cricket balls. A cricket ball is made with a core of cork, which is 
layered with tightly wound string, and covered by a leather case with a 
slightly raised sewn seam. In a top-quality ball suitable for the highest 
levels of competition, the covering is constructed of four pieces of leather 
shaped similar to the peel of a quartered orange, but one hemisphere is 
rotated by 90 degrees with respect to the other. The "equator" of the ball 
is stitched with string to form the ball's prominent seam, with six rows 
of stitches. The remaining two joins between the leather pieces are stitched 
internally. Lower-quality balls with a two-piece covering are also popular 
for practice and lower-level competition due to their lower cost. The nature 
of the cricket ball slightly varies with its manufacturer. White Kookaburra 
balls are used in one-day and Twenty20 international matches, while red 
Kookaburras are used in test matches played in most of the ten test-playing 
nations,[4] except for the West Indies and England, who use Dukes, and 
India, who use SG balls.[5] Cricket balls are traditionally red, and red 
balls are used in Test cricket and First-class cricket. White balls were 
introduced when one-day matches began being played at night under floodlights, 
as they are more visible at night; all professional one-day matches are 
now played with white balls, even when they are not played at night. The 
white balls have been found to behave differently to the red balls, most 
notably that they swing a lot more during the first half of an innings 
than the red ball, and that they deteriorate more quickly. Manufacturers 
claim that white and red balls are manufactured using the same methods 
and materials,[6] other than the dying treatment of the leather. Another 
problem associated with white cricket balls used in One Day Internationals 
is that they quickly become dirty or dull in colour, which makes it more 
difficult for batsmen to sight the ball after 30-40 overs of use.[7][8] 
Since October 2012, this has been managed by the use of two new white balls 
in each innings, with a different ball used from each bowling end; the 
same strategy was used in the 1992 and 1996 Cricket World Cups. Between 
October 2007 and October 2012, the issue had been managed using one new 
ball from the start of the innings, then swapping it at the end of the 
34th over with a "reconditioned ball", which was neither new nor too dirty 
to see. Before October 2007, except during 1992 and 1996 World Cups, only 
one ball was used during an innings of an ODI and it was the umpires discretion 
to change the ball if it was difficult to see.[9] Pink balls were developed 
in the 2000s to enable Tests and first-class matches played at night. The 
red ball is unsuited to night tests due to poor visibility, and the white 
ball is unsuited to first-class cricket because its rapid deterioration 
makes it unable to be used for eighty overs as specified in the rules, 
so the pink ball was designed to provide a satisfactory compromise on both 
issues. It is still considered more difficult to see than a white ball; 
and the leather is more heavily dyed than in a red ball, which better preserves 
its colour and visibility as it wears but also gives it slightly different 
wear characteristics. It has performed well enough in testing and first-class 
cricket to be approved for use in international cricket.[10] A pink ball 
was used for the first time in an international match in July 2009 when 
the England Woman's team defeated Australia in a one-day match at Wormsley,[11] 
and a pink ball was used in a day-night Test match for the first time in 
November 2015. Other colours were also experimented with, such as yellow 
and orange (glowing composite), for improved night visibility, but pink 
proved to be the preferred option. As of 2014, the ball used in Test match 
cricket in England has a recommended retail price of 100 pounds sterling.[12] 
In test match cricket this ball is used for a minimum of 80 overs (theoretically 
five hours and twenty minutes of play), after which the fielding side has 
the option of using a new ball. In professional one day cricket, at least 
two new balls are used for each match. Amateur cricketers often have to 
use old balls, or cheap substitutes, in which case the changes in the condition 
of the ball may not be experienced in the same manner as that which occurs 
during an innings of professional cricket. There are three main manufacturers 
of cricket ball used in international matches: Kookaburra, Dukes and SG. 
The manufacturer of the red (or pink) balls used for Tests varies depending 
on location: India uses SG, England and the West Indies use Dukes, and 
all other countries use Kookaburra. The different manufacturers' balls 
behave differently – e.g. Dukes balls have a prouder seam and will tend 
to swing more than a Kookaburra ball[13] – providing a home advantage when 
playing against a team unfamiliar with the ball. All limited overs international 
matches, regardless of location, are played with white Kookaburra balls.[14] 
White Dukes balls were used at the 1999 Cricket World Cup, but the ball 
behaved more erratically than the Kookaburra and has not since been used. 
Domestic competitions may use a domestic manufacturer: for example, Pakistan 
uses Grays balls in its first class competitions.[15][16] Cricket balls 
can be bowled at close to 160 km/h (100 mph) by pace bowlers and made to 
deviate from a straight course, both in the air (known as 'swinging') and 
off the ground (known as 'seaming'). A spin bowler imparts lateral revolutions 
on the ball at the point of delivery, so that when it bounces it deviates 
from a straight course. As cricket bats have become thicker, the ball can 
now be hit well over 100 metres before touching the ground. In test cricket, 
a new ball is used at the start of each innings in a match. In Limited 
Over Internationals, two new balls, one from each end, are used at the 
start of each innings in a match. A cricket ball may not be replaced except 
under specific conditions described in the Laws of Cricket: Because a single 
ball is used for an extended period of play, its surface wears down and 
becomes rough. The bowlers may polish it whenever they can - usually by 
rubbing it on their trousers, producing the characteristic red stain that 
can often be seen there. However, they will usually only polish one side 
of the ball, in order to create 'swing' as it travels through the air. 
They may apply saliva or sweat to the ball as they polish it. The seam 
of a cricket ball can also be used to produce different trajectories through 
the air, with the technique known as swing bowling, or to produce sideways 
movement as it bounces off the pitch, with the technique known as seam 
bowling. Since the condition of the cricket ball is crucial to the amount 
of movement through the air a bowler can produce, the laws governing what 
players may and may not do to the ball are specific and rigorously enforced. 
The umpires will inspect the ball frequently during a match. It is illegal 
for a player to: Despite these rules, it can be tempting for players to 
gain an advantage by breaking them. There have been a handful of incidents 
of so-called ball tampering at the highest levels of cricket. A new cricket 
ball is harder than a worn one, and is preferred by fast bowlers because 
of the speed and bounce of the ball off the pitch. Older balls tend to 
spin more as the roughness grips the pitch more when the ball bounces, 
so spin bowlers prefer to use a worn ball. Uneven wear on older balls may 
also make reverse swing possible. A captain may delay the request for a 
new ball if he prefers to have his spin bowlers operating, but usually 
asks for the new ball soon after it becomes available. Cricket balls are 
hard and potentially lethal, hence most of today's batsmen and close fielders 
often wear protective equipment. Numerous injuries are reported to health 
institutions worldwide in relation to cricket ball injuries, including 
eye (with some players having lost eyes),[17] head and face,[18] finger 
and toe,[19] teeth[20] and testicular injuries.[19] Frederick, Prince of 
Wales (1707–1751) is often said to have died of complications after being 
hit by a cricket ball, although the connection between the incident and 
his official cause of death is unproven. Glamorgan player Roger Davis was 
almost killed by a ball in 1971 when he was hit on the head while fielding.[21] 
The Indian batsman Nariman 'Nari' Contractor had to retire from the game 
after being hit by a ball on the head in the West Indies in 1962.[22] In 
1998, Indian cricketer Raman Lamba died when a cricket ball hit his head 
in a club match in Dhaka.[23] Lamba was fielding at forward short-leg without 
wearing a helmet when a ball struck by batsman Mehrab Hossain hit him hard 
on the head and rebounded to wicket-keeper Khaled Mashud. A cricket umpire, 
Alcwyn Jenkins, died in 2009 in Swansea, Wales after being hit on the head 
by a ball thrown by a fielder.[18] In November 2014, Australia and New 
South Wales batsman Phillip Hughes died at the age of 25 at a Sydney hospital 
after succumbing to an injury sustained from being hit on the side of the 
neck by a bouncer bowled by Sean Abbott during a Sheffield Shield game.[24] 
The same week, Hillel Oscar, an umpire and former captain of Israel's national 
cricket team died after being hit in the neck by a ball.[25] Sometimes 
alternatives to a real cricket ball may be preferred for reasons of safety, 
availability and cost. Examples include a tennis ball and a plastic version 
of the cricket ball. Many casual players use a tennis ball wrapped in layers 
of some type of adhesive tape (often electrical tape), which makes the 
relatively soft tennis ball harder and smoother. This is commonly referred 
to as a tape ball. A common variant is to tape only half the tennis ball, 
to provide two different sides and make it easy to bowl with prodigious 
