In the game of cricket, the cricket pitch consists of the central strip 
of the cricket field between the wickets – 1 chain or 20.12 m (22 yards) 
long and 3.05 m (10 feet) wide. The surface is flat and normally covered 
with extremely short grass though this grass is soon removed by wear at 
the ends of the pitch. In amateur matches in some parts of the world, artificial 
pitches are sometimes used. These can be a slab of concrete, overlaid with 
a coir mat, artificial turf, sometimes dirt is put over the coir mat to 
provide an authentic feeling pitch. Artificial pitches are rare in professional 
cricket, being used only when exhibition matches are played in regions 
where cricket is not a common sport. The pitch has specific markings delineating 
the creases, as specified by the Laws of Cricket. The word wicket often 
occurs in reference to the pitch. Although technically incorrect according 
to the Laws of Cricket (Law 7 covers the pitch and Law 8 the wickets, distinguishing 
between them), cricket players, followers, and commentators persist in 
the usage, with context eliminating any possible ambiguity. Track is yet 
another synonym for pitch. The rectangular central area of the cricket 
field – the space used for pitches – is known as the square. Cricket pitches 
are usually oriented as close to the north-south direction as practical, 
because the low afternoon sun would be dangerous for a batsman facing due 
west.[1] The protected area or danger area is the central portion of the 
pitch—a rectangle running down the middle of the pitch, two feet wide, 
and beginning five feet from each popping crease. Under the Laws of Cricket, 
a bowler must avoid running on this area during his follow-through after 
delivering the ball. The pitch is protected to preserve fairness in the 
game. Whenever a bowler follows through on the pitch, it creates patches 
in the dirt that cause unpredictable swing and bounce. These areas can 
be exploited by the bowlers to change the outcome of the match. If a bowler 
runs on the protected area, an umpire will issue a warning to the bowler 
and to his team captain. The umpire issues a second and final warning if 
the bowler transgresses again. On the third offence, the umpire will eject 
the bowler from the attack and the bowler may not bowl again for the remainder 
of the innings.[2] The protected area is protected in this way because 
the ball normally bounces on the pitch within this region, and if it is 
scuffed or damaged by the bowler's footmarks it can give an unfair advantage 
to the bowling side. The rule does not prevent the bowler or any other 
fielder from running on the protected area in an effort to field the ball; 
it applies only to the uninterrupted follow-through. A natural pitch with 
grass longer or more moist than usual is described as a green pitch or 
green seamer.[3] This favours the bowler over the batsman as the ball can 
be made to behave erratically on longer or wet grass. Most club and social 
cricket is played on pitches that professional cricketers would call green. 
A sticky wicket – a pitch that has become wet and is subsequently drying 
out, often rapidly in hot sun – causes the ball to behave erratically, 
particularly for the slower or spin bowlers. However, modern pitches are 
generally protected from rain and dew before and during games so a sticky 
pitch is rarely seen in first-class cricket. The phrase, however, has retained 
currency and extended beyond cricket to mean any difficult situation.[4] 
As a match progresses, the pitch dries out. The Laws of Cricket bar watering 
the pitch during a match. As it dries out, initially batting becomes easier 
as any moisture disappears. Over the course of a four or five-day match, 
however, the pitch begins to crack, then crumble and become dusty. This 
kind of pitch is colloquially known as a 'dust bowl' or 'minefield'. This 
again favours bowlers, particularly spin bowlers who can obtain large amounts 
of traction on the surface and make the ball spin a long way. This change 
in the relative difficulties of batting and bowling as the state of the 
pitch changes during a match is one of the primary strategic considerations 
that the captain of the team that wins the coin toss will take into account 
when deciding which team will bat first and can accordingly finalise his 
decisions. Cricket was initially played on uncovered pitches. Uncovered 
pitches began to be phased out in the 1970s.[5] The pitch is said to be 
covered when the groundsmen have placed covers on it to protect it against 
rain or dew. The use or non-use of covers significantly affects the way 
the ball comes off the pitch, making the matter potentially controversial. 
Law 11 of the Laws of Cricket provides that during the match the pitch 
shall not be completely covered unless provided otherwise by regulations 
or by agreement before the toss. When possible, the bowlers' run ups are 
covered in inclement weather to keep them dry. If the pitch is covered 
overnight, the covers are removed in the morning at the earliest possible 
moment on each day that play is expected to take place. If covers are used 
during the day as protection from inclement weather or if inclement weather 
delays the removal of overnight covers, they are removed as soon as conditions 
allow. Excess water can be removed from a pitch or the outfield using a 
machine called a water hog.[4] Law 10 of the Laws of Cricket sets out rules 
covering the preparation and maintenance of the playing area. During the 
match, the captain of the batting side may request the rolling of the pitch 
for a period of not more than 7 minutes before the start of each innings 
(other than the first innings of the match) and before the start of each 
subsequent day's play. In addition, if, after the toss and before the first 
innings of the match, the start is delayed, the captain of the batting 
side may request to have the pitch rolled for not more than 7 minutes, 
unless the umpires together agree that the delay has had no significant 
effect on the state of the pitch. Once the game has begun, rolling may 
not take place other than in these circumstances. If there is more than 
one roller available, the captain of the batting side shall have the choice. 
Detailed rules exist to make sure that, where possible, rolling takes place 
without delaying the game but the game is delayed if necessary to allow 
the batting captain to have up to 7 minutes rolling if he so wishes. Rolling 
the pitch can take a long time but will be very effective once done, rolling 
of the pitch is crucial to whether it is better for a batsmen or a bowler. 
For the 2010 County Championship season, the heavy roller was banned from 
use during a County Championship match. The belief was that the heavy roller 
was helping to make pitches flat, and therefore producing too many drawn 
games.[6] Before a pitch is rolled it is first swept to avoid any possible 
damage caused by rolling in debris. The pitch is also cleared of any debris 
at all intervals for meals, between innings and at the beginning of each 
day. The only exception to this is that the umpires do not allow sweeping 
to take place where they consider it may be detrimental to the surface 
of the pitch. Groundsmen mow the pitch on each day of a match on which 
play is expected to take place. Once a game has begun, mowings take place 
under the supervision of the umpires. The umpires are required to make 
sure that bowlers' and batsmen's footholes are cleaned out and dried whenever 
necessary to facilitate play. In matches of more than one day's duration, 
if necessary, the footholes made by the bowler in his delivery stride may 
be returfed or covered with quick-setting fillings to make them safe and 
secure. Players may also secure their footholes using sawdust provided 
that the pitch is not damaged or they do not do so in a way that is unfair 
to the other team. The rules do not allow players to practise bowling or 
batting on the pitch, or on the area parallel and immediately adjacent 
to the pitch, at any time on any day of the match. Practice on a day of 
a match on any other part of the cricket square may take place only before 
the start of play or after the close of play on that day and must cease 
30 minutes before the scheduled start of play or if detrimental to the 
surface of the square. Typically players do practise on the field of play, 
but not on the cricket square, during the game. Also bowlers sometimes 
practise run ups during the game. However, no practice or trial run-up 
is permitted on the field of play during play if it could result in a waste 
of time. The rules concerning practice on the field are covered principally 
by Law 17 of the Laws of Cricket. Pitches in different parts of the world 
have different characteristics. The nature of the pitch plays an important 
role in the actual game: it may have a significant influence on team selection 
and other aspects. A spin bowler may be preferred in the Indian subcontinent 
where the dry pitches assist spinners (especially towards the end of a 
five-day test match) whereas an all pace attack may be used in places like 
Australia where the pitches are bouncy. Green, swing promoting and humid 
conditions sums up the construction of English pitches but everything depends 
on weather e.g. in summer it may behave like Indian pitches too. Early 
in the season, most batsmen have to be on their guard as English pitches 
prove to be most fickle, like the country's weather. Later in the summer, 
the pitches tend to get harder and lose their green. This makes the task 
easier for batsmen and only genuine fast bowlers like those bowling in 
range of (135–150 km/h) and spinners can contain. Spinners prove less effective 
in the first half of the season and tend to play their part only in the 
second half. The humid conditions and little dust makes the grounds ideal 
place to practice reverse swing with a 50-over old ball. Of all grounds, 
The Oval is the most dangerous as the ball reverse swings most there. Another 
reason for this is traditionally it hosts the last international test match 
of a touring side in a summer. England is the hub for considerable research 
in the preparation of cricket pitches, and some outstanding research has 
recently been conducted by Cranfield University working with the ECB and 
The Institute of Groundsmanship (IOG).[7] The same has laid down fresh 
guidelines for preparation of pitches and is likely to improve the efficiency 
of a number of groundstaff. Pitches in Australia have traditionally been 
known to be good for fast bowlers because of the amount of bounce that 
can be generated on these surfaces. In particular, the pitch at the WACA 
Ground in Perth is regarded as being possibly the quickest pitch in the 
world. The Gabba in Brisbane is also known to assist fast bowlers with 
its bounce. However, these kinds of bouncy pitches also open up more areas 
for run-scoring, as they promote the playing of a lot of pull, hook and 
cut shots. Batsmen who play these shots well have a lot of success on these 
pitches. Other stadiums like Adelaide Oval and Sydney Cricket Ground have 
been known to assist spinners more as these pitches have more dust cover. 
This makes the stadiums an attractive ground for batsmen; teams on an average 
have scores of 300 or above in their first innings. The Melbourne Cricket 
Ground can assist seam bowlers initially, but it has a tennis-ball bounce 
which can negate the potency of bowlers once a match progresses. Swing 
bowling can be a weapon in Australia, but unlike England, it depends upon 
the overhead conditions, similar to the Indian subcontinent. Pitches in 
India have historically supported spin bowling rather than seam or swing. 
A ball bowled at pace may carry to the keeper on two bounces taking the 
slip catching out of the equation. Such pitches had virtually no grass, 
afforded little assistance for pace, bounce, or lateral air movement, but 
created good turn. In decades past, legendary spin bowlers—most notably 
the Indian spin quartet of the 1960s and 1970s, consisting of left-armer 
Bedi, offspinners Prasanna and Venkataraghavan, and legspinner Chandrasekhar—routinely 
toyed with visiting teams to plot dramatic victories for India in home 
test matches, particularly on turning pitches in hot, humid conditions 
at Eden Gardens in Kolkata (then known as Calcutta) and Chepauk in Chennai 
(then known as Madras). Sometimes 2.5 inches of turn favours the batsmen 
and spinner reckons not to spin the ball. They outwitted opposing batsmen 
not only through line, length, and trajectory variations but also by physically 
and psychologically exploiting rough spots resulting from wear and tear 
on the playing top and cracks from increasing surface dryness as a game 
progressed. The Indian batsmen being superb players of spin bowling have 
generally relished home conditions. Also few opposition teams have fielded 
quality spinners with Australia having Shane Warne in the team an obvious 
exception. However, when England toured India in 2012, having lost the 
first test they played a second spinner, Monty Panesar, to accompany Graeme 
Swann in the remaining three tests, of which England won the second and 
third, drawing the fourth. Unusually, both English spinners took more wickets 
more cheaply than their Indian counterparts.[8] Some pitches do favour 
swing and seam such as Bangalore. While the Brabourne and [SALEM] and Wankhede 
stadiums in Mumbai and Ferozshah Kotla in Delhi never offered nearly as 
much turn to spinners, winning a series in India was nevertheless quite 
difficult, and considered an ultimate challenge for visiting teams, as 
it is to this day. Indian pitches and attitudes have changed considerably 
in the past few years though. The induction of several newer 'green top' 
venues (such as the ones at Mohali and at Dharamshala), the emergence of 
Indian medium-fast bowlers, plus the development of domestic league cricket 
with international participants in the form of IPL, Ranji Trophy, ICL, 
have resulted in a greater variety of pitches. Some contemporary pitches 
provide good support for pace, bounce, and swing, giving visiting teams 
from countries such as South Africa and Australia the feeling of being 
at home. Surfaces are often tailor made to be flat tops or excessively 
batsmen-friendly, for the sake of maximising entertainment value, at the 
expense of all types of bowlers. But at time the reverse is true especially 
in the IPL wherein pace heavy teams often come-up with green pace friendly 
pitches to maximise chances of victory. Pitches resemble those in Australia 
with added swing (lateral) movement and comparatively lesser bounce. However, 
genuine fast bowlers who can hit the deck hard and hope for some seam as 
well do the most damage, the like of which are Shaun Pollock, Allan Donald, 
Makhaya Ntini, Dale Steyn, Morné Morkel, André Nel, Fanie de Villiers, 
Vernon Philander, Lance Klusener and Jacques Kallis. Spinners gain no assistance, 
as in New Zealand, and have to toil hard. This is perhaps a reason why 
South Africa has failed to produce a quality wicket-taking spinner. The 
exaggerating bounce at Wanderers Stadium has turned into "just perfect" 
for stroke players witnessing the 438 game. Other than that, batsmen can 
be undone by pace which explains why quality backfoot players who practise 
with strong fast bowlers, such as Pakistan, always struggled at Wanderers. 
Pitches in New Zealand, like the ones at Eden Park, Auckland and Basin 
Reserve, Wellington can have a green tinge similar to their counterparts 
in England. These cricket grounds are amongst the most picturesque in the 
world. The ball swings a lot due to the proximity of most grounds to the 
sea, relative humidity and moisture under the surface. New Zealand pitches 
are often bouncy and quick in nature due to the usual grass cover left 
on them. The grass cover offers seam movement early on, but also maintains 
the integrity of the pitch which can often dampen the effect of spin bowling 
but allows pitches to flatten out over the course of a match. Batting can 
be trying early on and batsman often take time to adjust to the conditions. 
As they are often in open stadiums bowlers can frequently be assisted by 
winds that increase the speed the batsmen faces the ball at one end. At 
the other end, the wind acts as a wall and decreases the pace on the ball 
and as result adjusting to this is often the most trying part for a visiting 
team. As of 2015[update] prominent New Zealand seam bowlers of the current 
era include Tim Southee, Trent Boult, Matt Henry, Doug Bracewell, Neil 
Wagner and Adam Milne. The spin bowling duties are shared by off-spinner 
Mark Craig and leg-spinner Ish Sodhi. The West Indies tends to produce 
balanced pitches. Neither is the bounce too disconcerting nor is the movement 
extravagant. It also does not assist spin like subcontinent pitches and 
hence for quality batsman they could be batting paradises. However, bowlers 
who are willing to bend their backs find some assistance from these pitches. 
Pitches here have earned a reputation of helping the quicks somewhat mainly 
because of the era gone by when West Indies used to have some of the fastest 
bowlers in cricket and hence the pitches appeared to be faster than they 
are. Tall bowlers like Malcolm Marshall, Joel Garner, Michael Holding, 
Andy Roberts, Ian Bishop, Colin Croft, Curtly Ambrose and Courtney Walsh 
produced bounce and speed even on the most docile pitches that wreaked 
havoc to any side and they used to run through the line-up. However, some 
of the best batsmen have arisen from the Caribbean too, like Viv Richards, 
Gary Sobers, Desmond Haynes, George Headley, Clive Lloyd, Shivnarine Chanderpaul, 
Rohan Kanhai, Chris Gayle and Brian Lara. Spinners also have something 
in the pitches as they tend to deteriorate by day four, offering a little 
dust and cracks for spinners to exploit. But due to insufficient support 
to spin in the Caribbean pitches, West Indies has not produced many all-time 
great spinners with the exception of Lance Gibbs. Pitches in Pakistan have 
historically supported spin bowling rather than seam or swing. However, 
the conditions in most grounds of Pakistan, like Rawalpindi, Lahore and 
Peshwar have also seen support for the reverse swing capabilities of the 
local bowlers in past times like Imran Khan, Sarfraz Nawaz , Waqar Younis 
and Wasim Akram. The dry and windy conditions usually lend good support 
to the faster bowlers as well. Such pitches had virtually no grass, afforded 
little assistance for pace, bounce, or lateral air movement, but created 
good turn. In decades past, legendary offspinners such as Saqlain Mushtaq 
credited for the doosra, and legspinners such as Abdul Qadir and Mushtaq 
Ahmed, routinely toyed with visiting teams to plot dramatic victories for 
Pakistan in home test matches, particularly on turning pitches in hot, 
humid conditions at Arbab Niaz Stadium and Gaddafi Stadium. Pitches in 
Pakistan are flat and considered batting paradises for batsmen in winter; 
they suit spinners in summers. The Bangladeshi wickets receive a lot of 
rain fall in little time which reflects the soggy nature. The conditions 
vary from grounds like Sher-e-Bangla Cricket Stadium and Chittagong Divisional 
Stadium. The basic idea of producing wickets in Bangladesh is to avoid 
using grassroots when they are building up the layers of soil. The roots 
hold the water and retain moisture for an extended period. It helps bind 
the wicket better, making it a harder surface eventually. It also slows 
the process of wearing down.[9] Notable spinners include Shakib Al Hasan 
and Abdur Razzak and seamers like Mashrafe Mortaza. Pitches are generally 
dusty and shorn off grass; the rain here also makes for a "sticky wicket". 
Wickets are generally flat and don't offer much bounce – however, the pitch 
at Asgiriya Stadium, Kandy offers generous bounce and favours fast bowling.[10] 
Bowlers get help under the lights. Spin is the key in these conditions, 
and spinners have fine records on the pitches in Sri Lanka. The heat requires 
an extreme level of fitness, while sweaty clothing makes it difficult to 
shine the ball. Reverse swing, off-spin, leg-spin are all effective tools 
in such conditions. Pitches in Zimbabwe closely resemble those in South 
Africa. The only difference being in the nature of the bounce. The pitches 
in South Africa provide fast bounce while the pitches in Zimbabwe tend 
to have a spongy, tennis ball type of bounce, which makes hitting on the 
up a risky proposition. Most pitches have slower bounce, hence batting 
is more favourable in Zimbabwe. Conditions at the Queens Sports Club, Bulawayo 
tend to aid batsmen, with spin coming into the game in a big way in the 
latter stages. The pitch has some grass, though not green enough to leave 
batsmen anxious. With the temperature touching 28 degrees, the strip is 
expected to dry out quickly and flatten into a batting beauty. The seamers' 
best chance will be with the new ball, and both teams feel keen to make 
first use of the pitch.[11] The UAE features spin-friendly pitches. New 
ball helps the bowlers and bowlers eye reverse swing and spin with the 
older ball. UAE conditions differ significantly from those of Pakistan 
due to the Gulf's sandy soils. Bowlers with a straight arm action like 
Johan Botha tend to reap wickets at these pitches. Grounds are not that 
hard. Dubai Cricket Stadium offers some grass, and fast bowlers like Shoaib 
Akhtar loop the ball on to the ground. Sheikh Zayed Stadium is batting-friendly, 
and the cracks come very late into play. The word pitch also refers to 
the bouncing of the ball, usually on the pitch. In this context, the ball 
is said to pitch before it reaches the batsman. Where the ball pitches 
can be qualified as pitched short (bouncing nearer the bowler), pitched 
up (nearer the batsman), or pitched on a length (somewhere in between). 
Unlike in baseball, the word pitch does not refer to the act of propelling 
the ball towards the batsman in cricket. Cricket fans usually refer to 
this action as a ball or as a delivery. (Also, the word ball does not imply 
anything about the accuracy of the delivery. In baseball, by contrast, 
a ball is a pitch that both fails to enter the strike zone and is not swung 
