Crocker (sometimes spelled Croccer) is a team sport played between two 
large teams. Its origins are in cricket and baseball. It also makes the 
use of a soccer ball which may explain its name. It is a casual sport not 
played formally, but often found on British summer camps. Crocker is played 
between two teams of undefined size, typically between 10 and 50 per side. 
The teams are not necessarily exactly even, though they are usually of 
similar size. Alternatively, a lack of skill on the side of one team may 
be made up for by a numerical advantage (for example in the case of many 
children playing against fewer adults). Crocker fields vary, but will often 
take advantage of whatever space is available. Often taking place on large, 
flat, grassy school fields, a crocker pitch may not have defined outer 
limits. A generally agreed setup will involve a semicircular bowling and 
batting area usually marked out with cones. The batsman stands in the middle 
of the flat edge of the semicircle while the bowler stands opposite him 
on the curved edge. A wicket is set up behind the batsman, as in cricket, 
usually made of four cricket stumps set up to make a wider version of real 
cricket stumps or in another variation of the game a chair may be used 
as the wicket. Behind the stumps stands a fielding player, or sometimes 
two; this position is usually called the wicket-keeper. At either corner 
of the semicircle are two more stumps set up, between which the batsmen 
may run. The rest of the fielding team stand anywhere in front of the batsman 
and outside the semicircle. The fielding team are not allowed inside the 
semicircle while the ball is being bowled, and at any time typically only 
six players are allowed on the edge of the semicircle. The rest of the 
fielding team tends to spread out to field and catch shots played by the 
batsman. In the general case, apart from the batsman, none of the batting 
team is allowed on the field of play. Instead, they line up several meteres 
behind the batsman to watch and prepare to bat. However some variations 
on the rules make use of the 'disrupting rule', whereby 5 members of the 
batting team are allowed to enter the field of play and disrupt the fielders 
as they try to recover the ball. The disrupters have to follow three clear 
rules. First, they must not touch the ball with their hands (unless they 
are inside the bowling/batting area and are permitted to use their hands 
to remove the ball from the semicircle.) Secondly there must be no physical 
contact between a disrupter and any member of the fielding team. And thirdly 
the disrupters may not interfere with the ball when it is on its way back 
to the bowler. If an umpire is present, they will usually stand at one 
of the corners. Their role is to count the runs and to uphold the rules 
and make decisions during the game. Any equipment is often made up of things 
that are to hand, but usually they consist of a football-sized ball, though 
a softer ball may often be used to prevent injury (for example, a volleyball). 
Sometimes even a rugby ball is used. The batsman's bat is usually a baseball 
bat, or a rounders bat, although cricket bats have been known to be used. 
During play, the bowler will bowl the ball, trying to hit the stumps. Unlike 
cricket, the bowler can bowl continuously, as soon as he or she receives 
the ball, whether the batsman is in position or not. The following rules 
apply to a ball bowled by the bowler at the batsman: The bowler and the 
six fielders on the edge of the semicircle are rotated at regular intervals 
(10 to 30 balls bowled). A batsman can be dismissed in a variety of ways. 
The usual rules of crocker include the following: There are also often 
various other methods of dismissal for crocker batsman, especially relating 
to sportsmanship. Loosely connected to this is being retired, which is 
to be taken from batting, usually either on reaching a certain score or 
batting for a certain time. Crocker is unique in the rotation between batsmen. 
As soon as one is out, the bowler may immediately bowl another ball, if 
he or she has the ball, even if the next batsman is not ready and in position, 
then he or she is given out if out in any of the above ways. This is most 
likely to do with the length of the game; with the potential for over 100 
batsmen in a match the emphasis is on speed and participation of everyone. 
Crocker is won by the team who, at the end of the match, has more runs. 
The runs are counted by the umpire. Special rules of crocker are often 
employed. The most common of these are: There is not much scope for tactics 
in crocker, but there are some that can be employed more by individuals 
than as a team. Alternatively If caught out a player is only half out. 
If a player performs a "double hit" then they are one third out If the 
amount to which a player is out is greater than 1 then they are fully out. 
A player is still fully out straight away if they are bowled out (except 
