Crosley Field was a Major League Baseball park located in Cincinnati, Ohio. 
It was the home field of the National League's Cincinnati Reds from 1912 
through June 24, 1970, and the original Cincinnati Bengals football team, 
members of the second (1937) and third American Football League (1940–41). 
Contrary to popular belief, it was not the original home of the current 
NFL franchise of the same name (the home of those Bengals in 1968 and 1969 
was nearby Nippert Stadium, located on the campus of the University of 
Cincinnati). Crosley Field was on an asymmetrical block bounded by Findlay 
Street (south), Western Avenue (northeast, angling), York Street (north) 
and McLean Avenue (west) in the Queensgate section of the city. Crosley 
has the distinction of being the first major-league park with lights for 
playing night games. The "Findlay and Western" intersection was the home 
field of the Reds from 1884 until mid-season 1970, when the team moved 
to Riverfront Stadium. The location of the diamond and consequently the 
main grandstand seating area was shifted several times during the 86½ seasons 
that the Reds played at the site. Three different parks stood there: Between 
the 1911 and 1912 seasons, the entire seating area of the Palace of the 
Fans as well as the remaining seating from the original League Park were 
demolished. They were replaced with the third steel-and-concrete stadium 
in the National League. It consisted of a double-deck grandstand around 
the diamond, positioned in the southwest corner of the lot. Beyond first 
and third base were single-deck covered pavilions extended to the corners, 
with bleachers in the right field area. The unusual angle of the covered 
areas down the lines, and behind home plate gave that area a distinctive 
"V" shape, giving rise to one of several nicknames the park had, "The Old 
Boomerang." Redland Field, whose name was a reference to the Reds' name 
and color, was built for $225,000 by Harry Hake Sr.'s architectural firm. 
It was one of many classic steel and concrete ballparks constructed during 
the first ballpark boom era of 1909–1923. Chicago's Wrigley Field and Boston's 
Fenway Park were also built during this era and remain in use today. Although 
occupying the site since 1884, the Reds dated their ballpark from the permanent 
structure opened in 1912. Throughout its history, Redland/Crosley Field 
was usually among the smallest parks in either the National or American 
leagues. It accommodated 25,000 fans in 1912; even at its peak, it barely 
exceeded 30,000 seats, excluding temporary seating areas created for opening 
day and World Series games. Contributing to this was the fact that there 
were no bleachers in left or center fields; all outfield seating (about 
4,500 seats), were in the semi-trapezoid-shaped right field stands that 
came to be known as the "Sun Deck" (or, in the case of night games, the 
"Moon Deck"). Groundskeeper Mathias "Matty" Schwab, who had been hired 
in 1894 had the sod laid just in time for the Reds' first game at the new 
park, April 11, 1912. In the game, the Reds rallied from a 5–0 deficit 
to defeat the Chicago Cubs 10–6, the same team that had opened and closed 
at the Palace in 1902 and 1911 respectively. Schwab would be the Reds' 
groundkeeper until he retired at age 83 in 1963. The Reds' on-field success 
continued to be sparse most of the time, but the club won the National 
League pennant in 1919, the franchise's first league title in 37 years, 
going back to the AA inaugural season. It was also the 50th anniversary 
of the Cincinnati Red Stockings' historic tour, and was a celebratory occasion 
for Cincinnati fans, especially when they scored an upset win over the 
Chicago White Sox in the World Series. The win was tainted by the fact, 
made public a year later, that the Series had been "thrown" by the heavily 
favored Sox. The Reds gradually returned to mediocrity and attendance flagged. 
When local businessman Powel Crosley Jr. bought the struggling Reds in 
1934, team president Larry MacPhail insisted that the ballpark be renamed 
in honor of the man many thought had rescued the franchise. Thus, the park 
was renamed "Crosley Field", and Crosley himself took the opportunity to 
advertise his Crosley cars. Under Crosley's ownership, the park would undergo 
notable structural renovations. With the effects of the Great Depression 
in Cincinnati, the Reds convinced baseball owners to allow night baseball 
at Crosley Field. Without lights, Larry MacPhail insisted, the team would 
fold because of low attendance. Lights had been installed in a number of 
Minor League baseball parks in the early 1930s, with positive results. 
The major league owners acquiesced; 632 individual lamps in eight metal 
stanchions were erected and on May 24, 1935, the Reds hosted the Philadelphia 
Phillies under the lights. In attendance at the game was Ford Frick, President 
of the National League. In the White House, President Franklin D. Roosevelt 
pressed a button that lit up Crosley Field, where a crowd of 20,422 fans, 
sizable for a last-place team in the middle of the Great Depression, came 
out to watch the game. Lou Chiozza was the leadoff man for the Phillies 
and thus has the distinction of being the first player to bat under the 
lights in a night game in the majors. The Reds won the game 2–1 behind 
right-hander Paul Derringer. The sixth night game at Crosley Field was 
particularly notable for its wildness. The visiting St. Louis Cardinals, 
the Reds' rival and the defending World Series champions, were in town, 
and the fans showed up in droves. As the game progressed, the throng of 
Reds fans forced people onto the field of play which caused mass confusion 
for the police and umpires. (This was during a time in baseball when overflow 
crowds were often allowed to sit or stand on the fringes of the playing 
field.) Reds manager Chuck Dressen could only follow the game via the scoreboard. 
At one point, he was heard to say: "I see the Cardinals got a run — but 
I don't know how they got it". During a lull in the eighth inning, a local 
burlesque performer named Kitty Burke came out of the crowd, picked up 
the Reds outfielder Floyd "Babe" Herman's bat, stepped into the batter's 
box, and dared the Cardinals' starter, Paul "Daffy" Dean, to throw her 
a pitch. He accommodated Burke with a soft toss; Burke grounded weakly 
to first base. The "pinch hit" appearance was never recorded as an official 
at bat, of course, but nonetheless, Burke began promoting herself as the 
first woman in major league history. Allegedly, the Reds gave her a uniform. 
The late 1930s finally brought some prosperity to the club again, along 
with some changes to the ballpark. After the 1937 season, home plate was 
moved out by some 20 feet, decreasing the park's dimensions. The following 
summer, Crosley was the host site for Cincinnati's first Major League Baseball 
All-Star Game. In the middle of a pennant winning season of 1939, their 
first in 20 years, the Reds added roofed upper decks to the left and right 
side pavilions. This gave Crosley Field some 5,000 additional seats and 
the appearance it would retain for the rest of its existence. The Reds 
lost the World Series to the powerful New York Yankees in 1939, but would 
bounce back to win the pennant again in 1940, and defeat the Detroit Tigers 
in a seven-game thriller. By the 1950s, the Reds were back to mediocrity, 
but they had some sluggers, including the muscle-bound Ted Kluszewski, 
who took full advantage of Crosley's cozy dimensions. Crosley Field again 
hosted the All-Star Game in 1953. After a poor season in 1960, the "Ragamuffin 
Reds" put everything together in 1961 and won the National League pennant, 
an effort documented in pitcher Jim Brosnan's book, Pennant Race. The dream 
season ended for the Reds at the hand of the Yankees, whose slugging duo 
of Roger Maris and Mickey Mantle had demolished the rest of the American 
League. Maris, who had set a record with 61 home runs that season, also 
knocked one into the Moon Deck in the ninth inning of Game 3 of the World 
Series. Crosley Field was the site of the major leagues' first save, after 
the save became an official statistic in 1969. Los Angeles Dodgers pitcher 
Bill Singer earned the save on April 7, 1969, in the season-opener, working 
three scoreless innings after taking over for Dodgers starting and winning 
pitcher Don Drysdale. Singer did not allow a hit, walking one batter and 
striking out one, as the Dodgers beat the Reds, 3–2.[3] The Reds would 
continue to be a frequent contender, gradually building up toward what 
would become known as the "Big Red Machine". By the time the Reds reached 
that peak, though, Crosley would be but a memory. Crosley Field's decline 
had begun in earnest in the mid-1950s with the automobile supplanting the 
train as the main method of transportation. The ballpark was located in 
the dense west end. Businesses (such as the Superior Towel and Linen Service, 
a.k.a. "The Laundry", as well as a large factory) bounded the park on three 
sides. The neighborhood was not suited for the automobile; parking increasingly 
became a major problem in the last 15 years of Crosley Field's existence, 
as did crime — especially during night games. Around 1960, Powel Crosley 
was courted by a group seeking to return a National League franchise to 
New York City to replace the Dodgers and the Giants, who had moved to Los 
Angeles and San Francisco respectively after the 1957 season. The moves 
left the American League Yankees as the city's sole baseball team. Crosley 
was unwilling to move. However, he died the following year and his estate 
sold the team a few months later to Bill DeWitt, who kept Crosley's name 
on the park. Complicating matters was that legendary football coach Paul 
Brown, the founder of the Cleveland Browns, who had been deposed by new 
owner Art Modell in 1963, was wanting to get back into professional football. 
He was granted an American Football League franchise for Cincinnati, the 
Bengals. A contingency of that agreement was that an appropriate facility 
be ready by the time the 1970 National Football League season began, which 
would be the first season that the AFL was fully merged with the NFL. An 
agreement was struck to build a multi-purpose facility on the dilapidated 
riverfront section of the city. Riverfront Stadium seated about 60,000 
people and was deemed a logical solution to a myriad of problems. The Reds 
were part of that agreement, and Crosley Field's end was in sight. It was 
believed that the Sunday, September 28, 1969 game against the Houston Astros, 
which was that year's last home game for the Reds (who won 4–1), would 
be the final game ever at Crosley Field. However, delays in final construction 
of Riverfront Stadium, led to the Reds opening the 1970 season at Findlay 
and Western, against the Montreal Expos. New additions to the Reds that 
season were figures who would become Reds legends: manager George Lee "Sparky" 
Anderson and shortstop Dave Concepción, who had actually been signed by 
the Reds as an amateur free agent in 1967 as a pitcher. The 1970 Reds were 
pennant-bound, but Crosley Field did not figure into that event. The Reds' 
last game at Crosley Field was played on June 24, 1970, against the San 
Francisco Giants. With the Reds trailing Juan Marichal and the Giants 4–3 
in the eighth inning, catcher Johnny Bench tied the game on a solo home 
run. The next batter, first baseman Lee May won it on a solo home run of 
his own. The ninth inning was a relatively easy one for Reds reliever Wayne 
Granger; Bobby Bonds grounded out to first base. One of the highlights 
of the closing festivities was mayor Gene Ruehlmann taking home plate out 
of the ground and taking it via helicopter (which had landed on the field), 
to Riverfront Stadium and installing it in the artificial turf. After a 
brief road trip to Houston, which saw them sweep the Houston Astros, they 
returned to Cincinnati and opened Riverfront Stadium against the Atlanta 
Braves. They lost 8–2. As previously noted, Crosley Field was usually among 
the smallest parks in Major League Baseball, both in seating capacity and 
playing field size. Probably the most famous (or notorious) feature of 
Crosley Field otherwise was the fifteen-degree left field incline, called 
"the terrace". Terraces were not unusual in old ballparks. Most of them 
were constructed as a way to make up the difference between field level 
and street level on a sloping block. And most of them were leveled out 
("Duffy's Cliff" at Fenway Park and Left Field bump at Wrigley Field are 
two examples) or covered by bleachers (Ebbets Field for example). The story 
of the Crosley Terrace is the reverse of the long-departed "Duffy's Cliff". 
There was no terrace in evidence during the ballpark's days as the Palace, 
which had a fairly high wall whose base was below street level. The terrace 
came about when the new ballpark was constructed for 1912. The club received 
permission to expand the playing field, by way of the city closing the 
eastbound lane of York Street. Instead of building a very high wall and 
retaining a level playing field, the club built a somewhat shorter wall 
with its base at roughly street level, with the sloping terrace making 
up the difference in grade. As baseball boomed during the 1920s, many clubs 
built additional seating in their once-spacious outfield areas. The outfield 
area at Findlay and Western was already small, so building inner bleachers 
was not practical, and the Crosley terrace persisted and became one of 
the park's trademarks. It was used, as Duffy's Cliff had been, for temporary 
spectator seating, in the days when standing-room-only crowds would be 
allowed at the fringes of the field behind ropes. The terrace also served 
as a warning track, in lieu of the more typical dirt or gravel warning 
tracks that began to appear at most other ballparks by the 1950s. The slope 
was at least as much warning to an outfielder as a flat track was. Although 
the terrace was most prominent in left field, it extended clear across 
the outfield. The Crosley terrace was nowhere near as extreme as the terrace 
at Nashville's Sulphur Dell, but it still frustrated many outfielders, 
mostly left fielders and mostly from visiting teams. Babe Ruth was victimized 
by it on May 28, 1935, playing for the Boston Braves in his brief final 
season. He was headed for the Hall of Fame, but one day as Ruth was headed 
up the Crosley terrace, he fell down on his face. Frank Robinson, however, 
loved it. In the early 1990s, when the Baltimore Orioles were planning 
their future home, Oriole Park at Camden Yards, Robinson, an Orioles executive 
and one-time Reds star, unsuccessfully lobbied to get the team to install 
a terrace in left field. When the Houston Astros' new facility, Enron Field, 
was being built, a prominent addition to the field was a 30° center field 
incline with a flagpole, which was dubbed "Tal's Hill" in reference to 
its proponent, Astros executive Tal Smith. To commemorate their Crosley 
Field years, the main entrance of the Cincinnati Reds' new park, Great 
American Ball Park, features a monument called "Crosley Terrace" that features 
inclines and statues of Crosley-era stars Joe Nuxhall, Ernie Lombardi, 
Ted Kluszewski, and Frank Robinson. References to the terrace are also 
visible. This monument was designed by architecture firm Populous and sculptor 
Tom Tsuchiya. Through much of its history, Crosley Field was used for other 
events besides Cincinnati Reds baseball games. The Negro Leagues' Cincinnati 
Tigers in 1936 and 1937 called Crosley home. The original 1937 Cincinnati 
Bengals football team played home games there. During World War I, the 
city's police force staged a review at Redland Field on October 17, 1917. 
On August 21, 1966, Crosley Field hosted The Beatles, who were in the midst 
of their final American and Canadian tour. The concert had been scheduled 
for the previous day, but was rained out. On June 13, 1970, Crosley Field 
hosted The Cincinnati Pop Festival. The band lineup included: The Stooges, 
Mountain, Grand Funk Railroad, Alice Cooper, Traffic, Mighty Quick, Bob 
Seger, Mott The Hoople, Ten Years After, Bloodrock, Savage Grace, Brownsville 
Station, Zephyr, Damnation Of Adam Blessing, and John Drakes Shakedown. 
Other events held there included a Roy Rogers rodeo, a political rally 
for Wendell Willkie, and even an Ice Capades show. After the 1970 season, 
the Cincinnati Reds and the city, which had agreed to buy Crosley Field, 
were at an impasse over how much Crosley Field was worth. The Reds wanted 
$3.5 million; the city countered with a $1.5 million offer. Eventually 
the case went to court. The city contended that since Crosley Field's playing 
field was extremely depressed, it would need to be filled — a costly and 
time-consuming affair. The Reds countered that since Interstate 75 ran 
by it, the site would become premium real estate. and they should be fairly 
compensated for the increase in value. They also brought in an expert witness: 
Peter Edward Rose. Rose espoused the positives of Crosley Field. Eventually, 
a jury set the sale price at $2.5 million. After the sale was made official, 
the city turned the park into an auxiliary auto impound lot while the Queensgate 
project was finalized. Ironically, given the parking shortage for many 
years, Crosley had itself become a parking lot. Two years later, the demolition 
of Crosley Field began in earnest. The park was soon gutted; seats sold 
for $10 and fans and present and former club employees scrounged for mementos. 
On April 19, 1972, Pete Rose, Jr. pulled a lever that sent a wrecking ball 
into the side of Crosley Field. By autumn, just the faint outline of the 
grandstand remained. Today, seven buildings occupy the site and a street 
runs through it. The former site of home plate has been painted in an alley.[5] 
The old left field terrace area is now a parking lot, but it's still distinguishable 
due to its slope and its location next to York Street. Dalton Street, which 
formerly dead-ended into Findlay Street, was extended through the former 
field of play. In 1974, Larry Luebbers of Union, Kentucky, built a replica 
of the Crosley Field playing field on his farm. To that, he added memorabilia 
that he had harvested during Crosley's demolition, such as seats, signage, 
and the old Crosley ticket booth; painted advertising on the fences; and 
opened it for the Cincinnati Suds professional softball team, which he 
also owned. However, by 1984, it was gone, too. Luebbers was forced to 
sell his farm to pay off his creditors. Luebbers' son, Larry Luebbers, 
played for the Reds and several other clubs in the 1990s.[6] At about the 
time Larry Luebbers' Crosley recreation failed, Marvin Thompson, then city 
manager of the Cincinnati suburb of Blue Ash, came up with the idea to 
make one of the ballfields of a planned community sports complex a recreation 
of Crosley Field. Administrative aide Mark Rohr was put in charge. He tracked 
down memorabilia for the park; what he couldn't find was often donated 
by fans. Items such as usher's uniforms, signage, rooftop pennants, and 
a field microphone were given to the new project, which opened in 1988 
with an Old Timer's game (which has since been discontinued). The scoreboard, 
which is a recreation, carries information from the final game at the old 
park. The field also has a white wall with "CROSLEY FIELD" in red letters 
in the appropriate font. This recreation was met with overwhelmingly positive 
reviews from fans old enough to remember the real park, as well as many 
retired Reds players such as Pete Rose, Joe Nuxhall, and Jim O'Toole. A 
wall features a number of plaques commemorating Crosley-era Reds greats. 
Additionally, 400 seats from the original field were installed at the Blue 
Ash replica. In an interview with author Greg Rhodes, Rohr, who wasn't 
a baseball fan when the project began, stated: "Sometimes I have a hard 
time understanding the people who come and stare at this place with tears 
in their eyes; a woman actually hugged the ticket booth and kissed it". 
The field is also used regularly by teams in various levels of play. Moeller 
High School's Varsity Baseball team plays its home games at Crosley. Crosley 
Field was known as a hitter-friendly park, though it was less so in its 
early days when the diamond was farther from the fences. In 1937, the Mill 
Creek flooded, submerging the field under 20 feet (6.1 m) of water.[7] 
As a lark, Reds pitcher Lee Grissom and the team's traveling secretary, 
John McDonald, got into a rowboat and entered Crosley Field over the left 
field fence and rowed to the area of the pitcher's mound. There was a photographer 
present, of course, and the picture has been well-circulated since then. 
For example, it can be seen on p. 40–41 of Lost Ballparks, by Lawrence 
Ritter. Across the left field wall on York Street, a sign on the Superior 
Towel and Linen Service plant advertised a downtown clothier, Seibler Suits, 
which rewarded any player hitting the sign with a suit. Wally Post, who 
won 11, led the Reds in this unofficial statistical category; Willie Mays 
led all visitors with seven. Its demolition in the early-1960s netted 38 
