As Player As Manager John A. "Cub" Stricker, born John A. Streaker (June 
8, 1859 – November 19, 1937), was an American second baseman in Major League 
Baseball who played for seven different teams during his 11-season career, 
the bulk of his playing time being with the Philadelphia Athletics and 
Cleveland Blues/Spiders.[1] Born in Philadelphia, Stricker was signed by 
the Athletics as a free agent in 1882 and played four seasons with moderate 
success. He would get his most playing time while with the Cleveland Blues 
though, and did well with the opportunity, especially his first season 
with them in 1887, when he batted .264 in 131 games, scored 122 runs scored, 
and stole 86 bases. He stole 60 bases the following year, and finished 
his career with a respectable 278, along with 1,106 base hits and a .239 
batting average.[1] In 1892, he was signed by the St. Louis Browns to be 
the team's player-manager. His time was cut short when after 23 games, 
the team had only won six of them. The final straw came after a home loss, 
and Stricker jumped into the stands and punched a fan who had been heckling 
the team.[2] He was traded soon after to the Pittsburgh Pirates in exchange 
for Pud Galvin.[1] Cub did not play a game for the Pirates, as he was traded 
again, three days later to the Baltimore Orioles in exchange for Adonis 
Terry.[1] Though his career was unremarkable, it was marred by an incident 
in his final season, while playing with the Washington Senators. During 
the sixth inning of a game on August 5, 1893 in Philadelphia, the crowd 
was jeering the Senators relentlessly when, after making the third out, 
Stricker walked over near the crowd and feigned throwing the ball at them 
a couple times until he finally did release the ball. The ball struck the 
ground before the fence that divided the crowd and the baseball field and 
bounded over the fence and struck a young man in the face, breaking his 
nose. Stricker was arrested, and held until a hearing could be conducted. 
He apologized, explaining that he meant to only throw it into the fence 
and that it was an accident.[3] Stricker died at the age of 78 in his hometown 
of Philadelphia, and was interred at West Laurel Hills Cemetery in Bala 
