The Cuban baseball league system is not a single baseball league; rather 
it is a structure of leagues and series that are governed by the Baseball 
Federation of Cuba and culminate in national championships and the selection 
of the Cuba national baseball team. The players are amateurs and play for 
the provinces in which they reside. All of the provinces in Cuba are represented 
by teams. The National Series generally runs from November through April 
with a schedule of 90 games per team in the regular season. The series 
is then followed by 3 playoff rounds culminating in a championship. This 
series has been played each winter since 1961-62. There are 16 teams organized 
in a West League and an East League. The top four teams from each league 
advance to a playoff, with the winner crowned in April. Two teams have 
dominated the National Series in recent years: Industriales and Santiago 
de Cuba. The Super Series is usually played from May through July with 
a schedule of about 28 games. The series is followed by a playoff between 
the two top teams. Its teams are selected from the best players of the 
National Series. In turn, the Cuban national team is selected from the 
players in the Super Series. Five regional teams compete: Prior to the 
Cuban Revolution, various professional, semiprofessional, industrial, and 
amateur baseball leagues and teams flourished in Cuba, including the professional 
Cuban League and the minor league Havana Sugar Kings. Since the Cuban Revolution, 
baseball continued to thrive as Cuba's national game. In February 1961 
the government created the National Institute for Sports, Physical Education, 
and Recreation (INDER) and in March, after the close of the 1960–61 Cuban 
League season, it decreed the abolition of professional baseball and plans 
to hold a national amateur championship. The first National Series, 1961-62, 
included four teams: Occidentales, Orientales, Habana, and Azucareros. 
The next season the number of teams had increased to six, and in 1967 to 
12. The expansion of baseball to the provinces was accompanied by the construction 
of new stadiums in provincial capitals, bringing first-tier baseball to 
the provincial population. This expansion greatly enhanced the nationwide 
accessibility of top-flight baseball. The two new Havana-based teams, Industriales 
and Habana (renamed in the 70's to Metropolitanos), were similar to the 
old professional Cuban League rivals, Almendares and Habana in that Industriales, 
like Almendares, wore blue, while Habana/Metropolitanos, like Habana, wore 
red. However, after Industriales went on to capture four consecutive championships 
from 1963–66, they became known as the premier Cuban team. Metropolitanos 
after the 80's, on the other hand, was unable to be competitive and has 
failed to re-establish the rivalry; it is now considered a second-class 
team, where young players and fading veterans share playing time. Several 
individuals were important in the transition to post-revolutionary baseball. 
Gilberto Torres managed the early national team and conveyed his vast knowledge 
of the game to the new generation of amateur players. Natilla Jiménez managed 
several provincial teams and was pitching coach of the national team. Juan 
Vistuer, Asdrúbal Baró, and Pedro Chávez also were prominent transitional 
coaches and managers. Conrado Marrero (former pitcher with the Washington 
Senators) remained in Cuba where he was a pitching coach for several teams. 
The Cuban baseball system is designed as much to develop the nation's athletic 
talents as to provide entertainment to the public. Children showing athletic 
promise are sent to sports academies for extensive competitive training 
and development, with the goal of developing the nation's athletes. Some 
players are able to make the municipal team and advance through the sport 
without training in the academies, but those players are exceptional. Although 
players are amateurs, elite players are subsidized and given special rewards. 
A problem confronting Cuba's top athletes, however, is the lack of opportunities 
to compete against the best players in the world. An opportunity for competition 
against the world's best professional players was finally made available 
by the World Baseball Classic first held in March 2006. Some other memorable 
events in the history of the Cuban national baseball system are the following: 
A number of immigrants from Cuba (sometimes described as "defectors") have 
played for the major leagues. Immediately after the Cuban Revolution many 
of the former professional baseball players emigrated, but for the next 
30 years relatively few left Cuba. Since 1991, however, a number of prominent 
