The Cuba national baseball team is the national team of Cuba. The team 
is made up from the most professional players from the Cuban national baseball 
system. Cuba has been described as a baseball powerhouse[1] and currently 
ranks 3rd in IBAF's world rankings.[2] Cuba participated in the inaugural 
World Baseball Classic tournament, although there was controversy over 
Cuban involvement, due to the United States embargo against Cuba. Cuba 
reached the finals of this tournament, but lost the final to Japan by a 
score of 10-6. Cuba again participated in the 2009 World Baseball Classic, 
playing its first round games in Pool B at Foro Sol in Mexico City. Cuba 
secured advancement to the second round with wins over South Africa and 
Australia. However, they lost to Japan twice in the 2nd round and were 
eliminated. It was their first elimination before finals in international 
game since 1951. For the third time ever, Cuba participated in the 2013 
World Baseball Classic in Pool A in Fukuoka Dome in Fukuoka, Japan, facing 
off against China, Japan and newcomers Brazil. The Cuban team has beaten 
all three teams undefeated to proceed to the second round in Pool 1 to 
face off against the Netherlands, losing 6-2 in the first preliminary round. 
They faced off against Chinese Taipei, winning 14-0 to face off against 
the Dutch team once again, but have lost 7-6, thus eliminating the Cuban 
team from reaching the finals for the second time. The Cuban team has participated 
in every Summer Olympic Games since 1992. It has been the most successful 
team at the Olympics. In the five tournaments contested, they have won 
the gold medal three times and the silver twice. Cuba was originally slated 
to host the 2009 Baseball World Cup, however, they willingly gave up the 
honor to Europe. In an effort to help baseball grow as a sport in Europe, 
the Baseball World Cup was hosted by a whole continent for the first time 
in history. The 2009 Baseball World Cup took place from September 9–27. 
Seven European countries hosted and participated in the tournament of 22 
teams. The event was made up of five groups consisting of four teams each, 
for a total of 20 teams. Italy (Bollate, Bologna, Codogno, Florence, Macerata, 
Milano, Parma, Piacenza, Reggio Emilia, Rimini, San Marino, Torino, Trieste, 
Verona & Vicenza) and Netherlands (Rotterdam, Haarlem & Amsterdam) served 
as hosts of the sixteen teams of the second round (September 14–20), and 
therefore received first round byes. The groups are as follows:[3] Media 
