The Cuban National Series (Spanish: Serie Nacional de Béisbol) is the primary 
domestic amateur baseball competition in Cuba. Formed after the dissolution 
of the Cuban League in the wake of the Cuban Revolution, the Series is 
a part of the Cuban national baseball system. Since 1993, the league has 
had 16 teams: one representing each province, and two for the city of Havana. 
Each team is made up of players from the province it represents. In Havana, 
most of the top tier players take the field for Industriales, traditionally 
the strongest team in the league. Other typically strong teams include 
those from Santiago de Cuba, Pinar del Río and Villa Clara. The 90-game 
regular season stretches from November until February, and culminates with 
an eight team tournament to decide the league champion. Since 2008-2009 
championship, the Cuban League has been reorganized - qualification is 
by zones, and not in groups as it has been the last 15 years. In the 2011-2012 
series, there were 17 competing teams, since Havana Province was split 
into two provinces: Artemisa Province and Mayabeque Province. Thus, the 
Western League had 9 teams. The Artemisa team were named "Hunters" (Spanish 
"Cazadores"), and the Mayabeque team "Hurricanes" (Spanish "huracanes"). 
The Cuban National Series is the beginning of the preparation for all the 
commitments that the team Cuba has in the summer. The Cuban National Preselection 
is selected from the Series and Havana is the site for practicing before 
going to the competition. Sometimes more than one team is selected. Beginning 
with the 2012-13 season, the Metropolitanos, long seen as the "farm team" 
of Havana's other team, powerhouse Industriales, will no longer field a 
team. This brings the number of competing teams back down to 16. To accommodate 
the 2013 World Baseball Classic, the league will take a six-week break 
after the February 3rd All-Star Game. The Series Nacional will play a shortened 
45 game season, with all 16 teams competing in a single table format (doing 
away with the regular two division format). The bottom 8 seeded teams will 
then play amongst themselves in the consolation round, while the top 8 
seeded teams will do the same for the championship. The designated hitter 
