Cuba and the United States restored diplomatic relations on 20 July 2015, 
which had been severed in 1961 during the Cold War. U.S. diplomatic representation 
in Cuba is handled by the United States Embassy in Havana, and there is 
a similar Cuban Embassy in Washington, D.C.. The United States, however, 
continues to maintain its commercial, economic, and financial embargo, 
which makes it illegal for U.S. corporations to do business with Cuba. 
Although the U.S. President, Barack Obama, has called for the ending of 
the embargo, U.S. law requires congressional approval to end the embargo. 
The hold of the Spanish Empire on possessions in the Americas was reduced 
in the 1820s as a result of the Spanish American wars of independence; 
only Cuba and Puerto Rico remained under Spanish rule until the Spanish–American 
War (1898) that resulted from the Cuban War of Independence. Under the 
Treaty of Paris, Cuba became a U.S. protectorate; the U.S. gained a position 
of economic and political dominance over the island, which persisted after 
it became formally independent in 1902. Following the Cuban Revolution 
of 1959, bilateral relations deteriorated substantially. In 1961, the U.S. 
severed diplomatic ties with Cuba and began pursuing covert operations 
to topple the Communist regime.[1] Moreover, the U.S. imposed and subsequently 
tightened a comprehensive set of restrictions and bans vis-à-vis the Cuban 
regime as retaliation for the nationalization of U.S. corporations' property 
by Cuba. Meanwhile, several organizations, including a nearly unanimous 
UN General Assembly, have called for "an end to the United States' decades-long 
economic, commercial and financial embargo against Cuba."[2] On 17 December 
2014, U.S. President Barack Obama and Cuban President Raúl Castro announced 
the beginning of a process of normalizing relations between Cuba and the 
U.S., which media sources have named "the Cuban Thaw". Negotiated in secret 
in Canada and Vatican City[3] over preceding months, and with the assistance 
of Pope Francis, the agreement led to the lifting of some U.S. travel restrictions, 
fewer restrictions on remittances, U.S. banks access to the Cuban financial 
system,[4] and the establishment of a U.S. embassy in Havana, which closed 
after Cuba became closely allied with the USSR in 1961.[5][6] The countries' 
respective "interests sections" in one another's capitals were upgraded 
to embassies on 20 July 2015.[7] On 20 March 2016, President Barack Obama 
visited Cuba, becoming the first President in 80 years to visit the island.[8] 
Relations between the Spanish colony of Cuba and polities on the North 
American mainland first established themselves in the early 18th century 
through illicit commercial contracts by the European colonies of the New 
World, trading to elude colonial taxes. As both legal and illegal trade 
increased, Cuba became a comparatively prosperous trading partner in the 
region, and a center of tobacco and sugar production. During this period 
Cuban merchants increasingly traveled to North American ports, establishing 
trade contracts that endured for many years. The British occupation of 
Havana in 1762 opened up trade with the British colonies in North America, 
and the rebellion of the thirteen colonies in 1776 provided additional 
trade opportunities. Spain opened Cuban ports to North American commerce 
officially in November 1776 and the island became increasingly dependent 
on that trade. After the opening of the island to world trade in 1818, 
trade agreements began to replace Spanish commercial connections. In 1820 
Thomas Jefferson thought Cuba is "the most interesting addition which could 
ever be made to our system of States" and told Secretary of War John C. 
Calhoun that the United States "ought, at the first possible opportunity, 
to take Cuba."[9] In a letter to the U.S. Minister to Spain Hugh Nelson, 
Secretary of State John Quincy Adams described the likelihood of U.S. "annexation 
of Cuba" within half a century despite obstacles: "But there are laws of 
political as well as of physical gravitation; and if an apple severed by 
the tempest from its native tree cannot choose but fall to the ground, 
Cuba, forcibly disjoined from its own unnatural connection with Spain, 
and incapable of self support, can gravitate only towards the North American 
Union, which by the same law of nature cannot cast her off from its bosom."[10] 
In 1854 a secret proposal known as the Ostend Manifesto was devised by 
U.S. diplomats, interested in adding a slave state to the Union. The Manifesto 
proposed buying Cuba from Spain for $130 million. If Spain were to reject 
the offer, the Manifesto implied that, in the name of Manifest Destiny, 
war would be necessary. When the plans became public, because of one author's 
vocal enthusiasm for the plan,[11] the manifesto caused a scandal, and 
was rejected, in part because of objections from anti-slavery campaigners.[12] 
By 1877, Americans purchased 83 percent of Cuba's total exports.[13] It 
was during this period that English traveler Anthony Trollope observed 
that "The trade of the country is falling into the hands of foreigners, 
Havana will soon be as American as New Orleans".[14] North Americans were 
also increasingly taking up residence on the island, and some districts 
on the northern shore were said to have more the character of America than 
Spanish settlements. Between 1878 and 1898 American investors took advantage 
of deteriorating economic conditions of the Ten Years' War to take over 
estates they had tried unsuccessfully to buy before while others acquired 
properties at very low prices.[15] Above all this presence facilitated 
the integration of the Cuban economy into the North American system and 
weakened Cuba's ties with Spain. As Cuban resistance to Spanish rule grew, 
rebels fighting for independence attempted to get support from U.S. President 
Ulysses S. Grant. Grant declined and the resistance was curtailed, though 
American interests in the region continued. U.S. Secretary of State James 
G. Blaine wrote in 1881 of Cuba, "that rich island, the key to the Gulf 
of Mexico, and the field for our most extended trade in the Western Hemisphere, 
is, though in the hands of Spain, a part of the American commercial system... 
If ever ceasing to be Spanish, Cuba must necessarily become American and 
not fall under any other European domination."[16] After some rebel successes 
in Cuba's second war of independence in 1897, U.S. President William McKinley 
offered to buy Cuba for $300 million.[17] Rejection of the offer, and an 
explosion that sank the American battleship USS Maine in Havana harbor, 
led to the Spanish–American War. In Cuba the war became known as "the U.S. 
intervention in Cuba's War of Independence".[10] On 10 December 1898 Spain 
and the United States signed the Treaty of Paris and, in accordance with 
the treaty, Spain renounced all rights to Cuba. The treaty put an end to 
the Spanish Empire in the Americas and marked the beginning of United States 
expansion and long-term political dominance in the region. Immediately 
after the signing of the treaty, the U.S.-owned "Island of Cuba Real Estate 
Company" opened for business to sell Cuban land to Americans.[18] U.S. 
military rule of the island lasted until 1902 when Cuba was finally granted 
formal independence. The Teller Amendment to the U.S. declaration of war 
against Spain in 1898 disavowed any intention of exercising "sovereignty, 
jurisdiction or control" over Cuba, but the United States only agreed to 
withdraw its troops from Cuba when Cuba agreed to the eight provisions 
of the Platt Amendment, an amendment to the 1901 Army Appropriations Act 
authored by Connecticut Republican Senator Orville H. Platt, which would 
allow the United States to intervene in Cuban affairs if needed for the 
maintenance of good government and committed Cuba to lease to the U.S. 
land for naval bases. Cuba leased to the United States the southern portion 
of Guantánamo Bay, where a United States Naval Station had been established 
in 1898. The Platt Amendment defined the terms of Cuban-U.S. relations 
for the following 33 years and provided the legal basis for U.S. military 
interventions with varying degrees of support from Cuban governments and 
political parties. Despite recognizing Cuba's transition into an independent 
republic, United States Governor Charles Edward Magoon assumed temporary 
military rule for three more years following a rebellion led in part by 
José Miguel Gómez. In the following 20 years the United States repeatedly 
intervened militarily in Cuban affairs: 1906 – 1909, 1912 and 1917 – 1922. 
In 1912 U.S. forces were sent to quell protests by Afro-Cubans against 
discrimination. By 1926 U.S companies owned 60% of the Cuban sugar industry 
and imported 95% of the total Cuban crop,[19] and Washington was generally 
supportive of successive Cuban Governments. However, internal confrontations 
between the government of Gerardo Machado and political opposition led 
to his military overthrow by Cuban rebels in 1933. U.S. Ambassador Sumner 
Welles requested U.S. military intervention. President Franklin D. Roosevelt, 
despite his promotion of the Good Neighbor policy toward Latin America, 
ordered 29 warships to Cuba and Key West, alerting United States Marines, 
and bombers for use if necessary. Machado's replacement, Ramón Grau assumed 
the Presidency and immediately nullified the Platt amendment. In protest, 
the United States denied recognition to Grau's government, Ambassador Welles 
describing the new regime as "communistic" and "irresponsible".[10][20] 
The rise of General Fulgencio Batista in the 1930s to de facto leader and 
President of Cuba for two terms (1940–44 and 1952–59) led to an era of 
close co-operation between the governments of Cuba and the United States. 
The United States and Cuba signed another Treaty of Relations in 1934. 
Batista's second term as President was initiated by a military coup planned 
in Florida, and U.S. President Harry S. Truman quickly recognized Batista's 
return to rule providing military and economic aid.[10] The Batista era 
witnessed the almost complete domination of Cuba's economy by the United 
States, as the number of American corporations continued to swell, though 
corruption was rife and Havana also became a popular sanctuary for American 
organized crime figures, notably hosting the infamous Havana Conference 
in 1946. U.S. Ambassador to Cuba Arthur Gardner later described the relationship 
between the U.S. and Batista during his second term as President: Batista 
had always leaned toward the United States. I don't think we ever had a 
better friend. It was regrettable, like all South Americans, that he was 
known—although I had no absolute knowledge of it—to be getting a cut, I 
think is the word for it, in almost all the things that were done. But, 
on the other hand, he was doing an amazing job.[21] As armed conflict broke 
out in Cuba between rebels led by Fidel Castro and the Batista government, 
the U.S. was urged to end arms sales to Batista by Cuban president-in-waiting 
Manuel Urrutia Lleó. Washington made the critical move in March 1958 to 
prevent sales of rifles to Batista's forces, thus changing the course of 
the revolution irreversibly towards the rebels. The move was vehemently 
opposed by U.S. ambassador Earl T. Smith, and led U.S. State Department 
adviser William Wieland to lament that "I know Batista is considered by 
many as a son of a bitch... but American interests come first... at least 
he was our son of a bitch.[22]" Until Castro, the U.S. was so overwhelmingly 
influential in Cuba that the American ambassador was the second most important 
man, sometimes even more important than the Cuban president. U.S. President 
Dwight D. Eisenhower officially recognized the new Cuban government after 
the 1959 Cuban Revolution which had overthrown the Batista government, 
but relations between the two governments deteriorated rapidly. Within 
days Earl T. Smith, U.S. Ambassador to Cuba, resigned his post to be replaced 
by Philip Bonsal. The U.S. government became increasingly concerned by 
Cuba's agrarian reforms and the nationalization of industries owned by 
U.S. citizens. Between 15 and 26 April 1959, Fidel Castro and a delegation 
of representatives visited the U.S. as guests of the Press Club. This visit 
was perceived by many as a charm offensive on the part of Castro and his 
recently initiated government, and his visit included laying a wreath at 
the Lincoln memorial. After a meeting between Castro and Vice-President 
Richard Nixon, where Castro outlined his reform plans for Cuba,[24] the 
U.S. began to impose gradual trade restrictions on the island. On 4 September 
1959, Ambassador Bonsal met with Cuban Premier Fidel Castro to express 
“serious concern at the treatment being given to American private interests 
in Cuba both agriculture and utilities.”[25] As state intervention and 
take-over of privately owned businesses continued, trade restrictions on 
Cuba increased. The U.S. stopped buying Cuban sugar and refused to supply 
its former trading partner with much needed oil, with a devastating effect 
on the island's economy, leading to Cuba turning to their newfound trading 
partner the Soviet Union for petroleum. In March 1960, tensions increased 
when the freighter La Coubre exploded in Havana Harbor, killing over 75 
people. Fidel Castro blamed the United States and compared the incident 
to the sinking of the Maine, though admitting he could provide no evidence 
for his accusation.[26] That same month, President Eisenhower quietly authorized 
the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) to organize, train, and equip Cuban 
refugees as a guerrilla force to overthrow Castro.[27] Each time the Cuban 
government nationalized American citizens properties, the American government 
took countermeasures, resulting in the prohibition of all exports to Cuba 
on 19 October 1960. Consequently, Cuba began to consolidate trade relations 
with the USSR, leading the U.S. to break off all remaining official diplomatic 
relations. Later that year, U.S. diplomats Edwin L. Sweet and William G. 
Friedman were arrested and expelled from the island having been charged 
with "encouraging terrorist acts, granting asylum, financing subversive 
publications and smuggling weapons”. On 3 January 1961 the U.S. withdrew 
diplomatic recognition of the Cuban government and closed the embassy in 
Havana. Presidential candidate John F. Kennedy believed that Eisenhower's 
policy toward Cuba had been mistaken. He criticized what he saw as use 
of the U.S. government influence to advance the interest and increase the 
profits of private U.S. companies instead of helping Cuba to achieve economic 
progress, saying that Americans dominated the island's economy and had 
given support to one of the bloodiest and most repressive dictatorships 
in the history of Latin America. "We let Batista put the U.S. on the side 
of tyranny, and we did nothing to convince the people of Cuba and Latin 
America that we wanted to be on the side of freedom".[28] In 1961 Cuba 
resisted an armed invasion by about 1,500 CIA trained Cuban exiles at the 
Bay of Pigs.[29] President John F. Kennedy's complete assumption of responsibility 
for the venture, which provoked a popular reaction against the invaders, 
proved to be a further propaganda boost for the Cuban government.[30] The 
U.S. began the formulation of new plans aimed at destabilizing the Cuban 
government. These activities were collectively known as the “Cuban Project” 
(also known as Operation Mongoose). This was to be a coordinated program 
of political, psychological, and military sabotage, involving intelligence 
operations as well as assassination attempts on key political leaders. 
The Cuban project also proposed attacks on mainland U.S. targets, hijackings 
and assaults on Cuban refugee boats to generate U.S. public support for 
military action against the Cuban government, these proposals were known 
collectively as Operation Northwoods. A U.S. Senate Select Intelligence 
Committee report later confirmed over eight attempted plots to kill Castro 
between 1960 and 1965, as well as additional plans against other Cuban 
leaders.[31] After weathering the failed Bay of Pigs invasion, Cuba observed 
as U.S. armed forces staged a mock invasion of a Caribbean island in 1962 
named Operation Ortsac. The purpose of the invasion was to overthrow a 
leader whose name, Ortsac, was Castro spelled backwards.[32] Tensions between 
the two nations reached their peak in 1962, after U.S. reconnaissance aircraft 
photographed the Soviet construction of intermediate-range missile sites. 
The discovery led to the Cuban Missile Crisis. Trade relations also deteriorated 
in equal measure. In 1962, President John F. Kennedy broadened the partial 
trade restrictions imposed after the revolution by Eisenhower to a ban 
on all trade with Cuba, except for non-subsidized sale of foods and medicines. 
A year later travel and financial transactions by U.S. citizens with Cuba 
was prohibited. The United States embargo against Cuba was to continue 
in varying forms and is still in operation today. Relations began to thaw 
during President Lyndon B. Johnson’s tenure continuing through the next 
decade and a half. In 1964 Fidel Castro sent a message to Johnson encouraging 
dialogue, he wrote: I seriously hope that Cuba and the United States can 
eventually respect and negotiate our differences. I believe that there 
are no areas of contention between us that cannot be discussed and settled 
within a climate of mutual understanding. But first, of course, it is necessary 
to discuss our differences. I now believe that this hostility between Cuba 
and the United States is both unnatural and unnecessary – and it can be 
eliminated.[33] Through the late 1960s and early 1970s a sustained period 
of aircraft hijackings between Cuba and the U.S. by citizens of both nations 
led to a need for cooperation. By 1974, U.S. elected officials had begun 
to visit the island. Three years later, during the Carter administration, 
the U.S. and Cuba simultaneously opened interests sections in each other's 
capitals. In 1980, after 10,000 Cubans crammed into the Peruvian embassy 
seeking political asylum, Castro stated that any who wished to do so could 
leave Cuba, in what became known as the Mariel boatlift. Approximately 
125,000 people left Cuba for the United States. Without advising the U.S. 
government, Castro included, among those political and economic refugees, 
mental patients and criminals released from Cuban prisons. In 1977, Cuba 
and the United States signed a maritime boundary treaty in which the countries 
agreed on the location of their border in the Straits of Florida. The treaty 
was never sent to the United States Senate for ratification, but the agreement 
has been implemented by the U.S. State Department. In 1981 President Ronald 
Reagan’s new administration announced a tightening of the embargo. The 
U.S. also re-established the travel ban, prohibiting U.S. citizens from 
spending money in Cuba. The ban was later supplemented to include Cuban 
government officials or their representatives visiting the U.S. In 1985 
Radio y Televisión Martí, backed by Ronald Reagan’s administration, began 
to broadcast news and information from the U.S. to Cuba. The Cold War ended 
with the collapse of the Soviet Union in the late 1980s and early 1990s, 
leaving Cuba without its major international sponsor. The ensuing years 
were marked by economic difficulty in Cuba, a time known as the Special 
Period. U.S. law allowed private humanitarian aid to Cuba for part of this 
time. However, the long standing U.S. embargo was reinforced in October 
1992 by the Cuban Democracy Act (the "Torricelli Law") and in 1996 by the 
Cuban Liberty and Democracy Solidarity Act (known as the Helms-Burton Act). 
The 1992 act prohibited foreign-based subsidiaries of U.S. companies from 
trading with Cuba, travel to Cuba by U.S. citizens, and family remittances 
to Cuba.[34] Sanctions could also be applied to non-U.S. companies trading 
with Cuba. As a result, multinational companies had to choose between Cuba 
and the U.S., the latter being a much larger market. On 24 February 1996, 
two unarmed Cessna 337s flown by the group "Brothers to the Rescue" were 
shot down by Cuban Air Force MiG-29, killing three Cuban-Americans and 
one Cuban U.S. resident. The Cuban government claimed that the planes had 
entered into Cuban airspace. Some veterans of CIA's 1961 Bay of Pigs invasion, 
while no longer being sponsored by the CIA, are still active, though they 
are now in their seventies or older. Members of Alpha 66, an anti-Castro 
paramilitary organization, continue to practice their AK-47 skills in a 
camp in South Florida.[35] In January 1999, U.S. President Bill Clinton 
eased travel restrictions to Cuba in an effort to increase cultural exchanges 
between the two nations.[36] The Clinton administration approved a two-game 
exhibition series between the Baltimore Orioles and Cuban national baseball 
team, marking the first time a Major League Baseball team played in Cuba 
since 1959.[37] At the United Nations Millennium Summit in September 2000, 
Castro and Clinton spoke briefly at a group photo session and shook hands. 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan commented afterwards, “For a U.S. president 
and a Cuban president to shake hands for the first time in over 40 years—I 
think it is a major symbolic achievement". While Castro said it was a gesture 
of “dignity and courtesy,” the White House denied the encounter was of 
any significance.[38] In November 2001, U.S. companies began selling food 
to the country for the first time since Washington imposed the trade embargo 
after the revolution. In 2002, former U.S. President Jimmy Carter became 
the first former or sitting U.S. president to visit Cuba since 1928.[39] 
Relations deteriorated again following the election of George W. Bush. 
During his campaign Bush appealed for the support of Cuban-Americans by 
emphasizing his opposition to the government of Fidel Castro and supporting 
tighter embargo restrictions[40] Cuban Americans, who until 2008 tended 
to vote Republican,[41] expected effective policies and greater participation 
in the formation of policies regarding Cuba-U.S. relations.[40] Approximately 
three months after his inauguration, the Bush administration began expanding 
travel restrictions. The United States Department of the Treasury issued 
greater efforts to deter American citizens from illegally traveling to 
the island.[42] Also in 2001, five Cuban agents were convicted on 26 counts 
of espionage, conspiracy to commit murder, and other illegal activities 
in the United States. On 15 June 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court denied review 
of their case. Tensions heightened as the Under Secretary of State for 
Arms Control and International Security Affairs, John R. Bolton, accused 
Cuba of maintaining a biological weapons program.[43] Many in the United 
States, including ex-president Carter, expressed doubts about the claim. 
Later, Bolton was criticized for pressuring subordinates who questioned 
the quality of the intelligence John Bolton had used as the basis for the 
assertion.[44][45] Bolton identified the Castro government as part of America's 
"axis of evil," highlighting the fact that the Cuban leader visited several 
U.S. foes, including Libya, Iran and Syria.[46] Following his 2004 reelection, 
Bush declared Cuba to be one of the few "outposts of tyranny" remaining 
in the world. In January 2006, United States Interests Section in Havana 
began, in an attempt to break Cuba's "information blockade", displaying 
messages, including quotes from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 
on a scrolling "electronic billboard" in the windows of their top floor. 
Following a protest march organized by the Cuban government, the government 
erected a large number of poles, carrying black flags with single white 
stars, obscuring the messages.[47] On 8 September 2006, it was revealed 
that at least ten South Florida journalists received regular payments from 
the U.S. government for programs on Radio Martí and TV Martí, two broadcasters 
that support an opening of Cuban society and multi-party elections in Cuba. 
The payments totaled thousands of dollars over several years. Those who 
were paid the most were veteran reporters and a freelance contributor for 
El Nuevo Herald, the Spanish-language newspaper published by the corporate 
parent of The Miami Herald. The Cuban government has long contended that 
some South Florida Spanish-language journalists were on the federal payroll.[48] 
On 12 September 2006, the United States announced that it had created five 
inter-agency working groups to monitor Cuba. The groups were set up after 
the 31 July announcement that the ailing Cuban leader had temporarily ceded 
power to a collective leadership headed by his brother Raúl. U.S. officials 
say three of the newly created groups are headed by the State Department: 
diplomatic actions; strategic communications and democratic promotion. 
Another that coordinated humanitarian aid to Cuba is run by the Commerce 
Department, and a fifth, on migration issues, is run jointly by the National 
Security Council and the Department of Homeland Security.[49] On 10 October 
2006, the United States announced the creation of a task force made up 
of officials from several U.S. agencies to pursue more aggressively American 
violators of the U.S. trade embargo against Cuba, with penalties as severe 
as 10 years of prison and hundreds of thousands of dollars in fines for 
violators of the embargo.[50] In November 2006, U.S. Congressional auditors 
accused the development agency USAID of failing properly to administer 
its program to for promoting democracy in Cuba. They said USAID had channeled 
tens of millions of dollars through exile groups in Miami, which were sometimes 
wasteful or kept questionable accounts. The report said the organizations 
had sent items such as chocolate and cashmere jerseys to Cuba. Their report 
concludes that 30% of the exile groups who received USAID grants showed 
questionable expenditures.[51] After Fidel Castro's announcement of resignation 
in 2008, U.S. Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte said that the United 
States would maintain its embargo.[52] In 2003, the United States Commission 
for Assistance to a Free Cuba was formed to "explore ways the U.S. can 
help hasten and ease a democratic transition in Cuba." The commission immediately 
announced a series of measures that included a tightening of the travel 
embargo to the island, a crackdown on illegal cash transfers, and a more 
robust information campaign aimed at Cuba.[24] Castro insisted that, in 
spite of the formation of the Commission, Cuba is itself "in transition: 
to socialism [and] to communism" and that it was "ridiculous for the U.S. 
to threaten Cuba now".[53] In a 2004 meeting with members of the Commission 
for Assistance to a Free Cuba, President Bush stated, “We're not waiting 
for the day of Cuban freedom; we are working for the day of freedom in 
Cuba.” The President reaffirmed his commitment to Cuban-Americans just 
in time for his 2004 reelection with promises to “work” rather than wait 
for freedom in Cuba.[42] In April 2006, the Bush administration appointed 
Caleb McCarry "transition coordinator" for Cuba, providing a budget of 
$59 million, with the task of promoting the governmental shift to democracy 
after Castro's death. Official Cuban news service Granma alleges that these 
transition plans were created at the behest of Cuban exile groups in Miami, 
and that McCarry was responsible for engineering the overthrow of the Aristide 
government in Haiti.[54][55] In 2006, the Commission for Assistance to 
a Free Cuba released a 93-page report. The report included a plan that 
suggested the United States spend $80 million to ensure that Cuba's communist 
system does not continue after the death of Fidel Castro. The plan also 
includes a classified annex that Cuban officials claim could be a plot 
to assassinate Fidel Castro or a United States military invasion of Cuba, 
though they have provided no evidence to support this claim.[56][57] Relations 
between Cuba and the United States remain tenuous, but since Fidel Castro 
stepped down from official leadership of the Cuban state and Barack Obama 
became president of the United States, they have improved.[58] In April 
2009, Obama, who had received nearly half of the Cuban-American vote in 
the 2008 presidential election,[59] began implementing a less strict policy 
towards Cuba. Obama stated that he was open to dialogue with Cuba, but 
that he would only lift the trade embargo if Cuba underwent political change. 
In March 2009, Obama signed into law a congressional spending bill which 
eased some economic sanctions on Cuba and eased travel restrictions on 
Cuban-Americans (defined as persons with a relative "who is no more than 
three generations removed from that person")[60] traveling to Cuba. The 
April executive decision further removed time limits on Cuban-American 
travel to the island. Another restriction loosened in April 2009 was in 
the realm of telecommunications, which would allow quicker and easier access 
to the internet for Cuba.[61] The loosening of restrictions is likely to 
help nonprofits and scientists from both countries who work together on 
issues of mutual concern, such as destruction of shared biodiversity[62] 
and diseases that affect both populations.[63] At the 2009 5th Summit of 
the Americas, President Obama signaled the opening of a new beginning with 
Cuba.[64] Obama's overtures were reciprocated, to some degree, by new Cuban 
President Raúl Castro. On 27 July 2012, Raúl Castro said that the Government 
of Cuba is willing to hold talks with the United States government to "discuss 
anything".[65] On 10 December 2013, at a state memorial service for Nelson 
Mandela, Barack Obama and Raúl Castro shook hands,[66] with Castro saying 
in English: "Mr. President, I am Castro." Though both sides played down 
the handshake (much like the Clinton handshake of 2000),[67] an adviser 
to Obama said that Obama wanted to improve relations with Cuba, yet had 
concerns about human rights on the island.[68] Beginning in 2013, Cuban 
and U.S. officials held secret talks brokered in part by Pope Francis and 
hosted in Canada and Vatican City[69][70][71] to start the process of restoring 
diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United States. On 17 December 
2014, the framework of an agreement to normalize relations and eventually 
end the longstanding embargo was announced by Castro in Cuba and Obama 
in the United States. Cuba and the United States pledged to start official 
negotiations with the aim of reopening their respective embassies in Havana 
and Washington.[72] As part of the agreement, aid worker Alan Gross and 
an unnamed Cuban national working as a U.S intelligence asset were released 
by the Cuban government, which also promised to free an unspecified number 
of Cuban nationals from a list of political prisoners earlier submitted 
by the United States. For its part, the U.S. government released the last 
three remaining members of the Cuban Five. Reaction to this change in policy 
within the Cuban-American community was mixed,[73] and Cuban-American senators 
Bob Menendez (D-NJ), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Ted Cruz (R-TX) all condemned 
the Obama administration's change in policy.[74] However, opinion polls 
indicated the thaw in relations was broadly popular with the American public.[75] 
High-level diplomats from Cuba and the United States met in Havana in January 
2015. While the talks did not produce a significant breakthrough, both 
sides described them as "productive", and Cuban Foreign Ministry official 
Josefina Vidal said further talks would be scheduled.[76] Under new rules 
implemented by the Obama administration, restrictions on travel by Americans 
to Cuba are significantly relaxed as of 16 January 2015, and the limited 
import of items like Cuban cigars and rum to the United States is allowed, 
as is the export of American computer and telecommunications technology 
to Cuba.[77] On 14 April 2015, the Obama administration announced that 
Cuba would be removed from the United States "Terrorist Sponsor" list. 
The House and Senate had 45 days from 14 April 2015 to review and possibly 
block this action,[78] but this did not occur, and on 29 May 2015, the 
45 days lapsed, therefore officially removing Cuba from the United States' 
list of state sponsors of terrorism.[79] This move by President Obama further 
departs the United States from the Cold War conflict and its strain on 
Cuba–United States relations.[78] On 1 July 2015, President Barack Obama 
announced that formal diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United 
States would resume, and embassies would be opened in Washington and Havana.[80] 
Relations between Cuba and the United States were formally re-established 
on 20 July 2015, with the opening of the Cuban embassy in Washington and 
the U.S. embassy in Havana.[81] Barack Obama visited Cuba for three days 
in March 2016.[82]In the August 2016 JetBlue Flight 387 landed in Havana, 
becoming the first direct commercial flight to travel between the two countries 
since 1962.[83] Under the Trade Sanctions Reform and Enhancement Act of 
2000, exports from the United States to Cuba in the industries of food 
and medical products are permitted with the proper licensing and permissions 
from the U.S. Department of Commerce and the United States Department of 
the Treasury.[52] The Obama administration eased specific travel and other 
restrictions on Cuba in January 2011.[84] A delegation from the United 
States Congress called on Cuban president Raúl Castro on 24 February 2012 
to discuss bilateral relations. The Congress delegation included Patrick 
Leahy, Democratic Senator from the state of Vermont and chairman of the 
Senate Committee on the Judiciary, and Richard Shelby, Republican Senator 
from the state of Alabama and ranking member of the Committee of Banking, 
Housing and Urban Matters; they went to Cuba as part of a delegation of 
Senators and Representatives of the Congress of United States.[85] Travel 
and import restrictions imposed by the United States were further relaxed 
by executive action in January 2015 as part of the Cuban Thaw.[77] The 
U.S. continues to operate a naval base at Guantánamo Bay under a 1903 lease 
agreement "for the time required for the purposes of coaling and naval 
stations". The U.S. issues a check to Cuba annually for its lease, but 
since the revolution, Cuba has cashed only one payment.[86][87] The Cuban 
government opposes the treaty, arguing that it violates article 52 of the 
1969 Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, titled "Coercion of a State 
by the threat or use of force". However, Article 4, titled "Non-retroactivity 
of the present Convention" of the same document states that Vienna Convention 
on the Law of Treaties shall not be retroactively applied to any treaties 
made before itself.[88] The leasing of land like the Guantánamo Bay tract 
was one of the requirements of the Platt Amendment, conditions for the 
withdrawal of United States troops remaining in Cuba following the Spanish–American 
