The Cuban Giants were the first African-American professional baseball 
club. The team was originally formed in 1885 at the Argyle Hotel, a summer 
resort in Babylon, New York. The team was so skilled in the game, and achieved 
victory over so many of the nearby amateur "white" teams that they attracted 
the attention of a promoter, Walter Cook. To appeal to a broader audience, 
Cook styled them the "Cuban Giants", although there were rarely (if ever) 
any Cubans on the Cuban Giants. The team remained one of the premier Negro 
league teams for nearly 20 years. The team went on to become the "world 
colored champions" of 1887 and 1888, and spawned imitators. Though there 
were no actual Cuban men on the Cuban Giants, the team had played in Cuba 
in the fall or winter of 1885–1886[1] and again in the winter of 1886–1887.[2] 
In the September 1938 issue of Esquire Magazine, Sol White recounts the 
early days of the team: "…when that first team began playing away from 
home, they passed as foreigners—Cubans, as they finally decided—hoping 
to conceal the fact that they were just American Negro hotel waiters and 
talked a gibberish to each other on the field which, they hoped, sounded 
like Spanish" (Coover, 3). In 1896 ownership issues would lead to a new 
offshoot team being created, calling themselves "Cuban X-Giants". The older 
owner's team was then referred to as Genuine Cuban Giants or Original Cuban 
Giants. There are two different tales on how the Cuban Giants got their 
start. According to Sol White, a player who would join the Cuban Giants 
several years after they got started, Frank P. Thompson, a headwaiter at 
the Argyle Hotel in Babylon, Long Island, would regularly play baseball 
with the other waiters that soon became an attraction for the hotel's guests. 
Before long, he signed 3 star players from the semi-pro black team, the 
Philadelphia Orions, and the team went on the road to contend any team 
who would play them. However, according to an interview with Thompson himself 
published on October 15, 1887 in the "New York Age", an African-American 
newspaper, the majority of the ballplayers did not come from the hotel's 
staff, but from several other black teams. In Philadelphia, Frank P. Thompson 
organized the Keystone Athletics in May 1885, and in July they were transferred 
to Babylon, L.I. By August the Athletics had partnered with the Manhattans 
from Washington, D.C. and the Philadelphia Orions, and it was the coming 
together of these three teams that created the Cuban Giants. Walter Cook 
from Trenton, New Jersey was their white owner and Stanislaus Kostka Govern 
was their black manager. Govern, who was a native of St. Croix, Virgin 
Islands, understood how a team could financially prosper in the Caribbean 
at this time. His own team, the Manhattans, had been playing in Cuba since 
1882. Thompson had a connection to Henry Flagler through Osborn D. Seavey, 
and once the team was through with their Cuban winter tour, they came to 
St. Augustine, Florida to entertain the guests at the newly forming resort 
hub. The Cuban Giants would come back to Florida many times during their 
existence. During the St. Augustine years, Thompson put together an organization 
called the Progressive Association of the United States. Thompson was the 
president of the Association, and Govern acted as secretary. Thompson used 
his position to conduct annual sermons for the Cuban Giants and any citizens 
who wanted, to come together against prejudice in the South. These sermons 
were widely well received and inspired others to join him in the cause. 
In 1886, Walter E. Simpson bought the team and gave them a home at the 
Chambersburg Grounds in Trenton, New Jersey. Two months later, he would 
sell the team to Walter I. Cook. Cook came from a wealthy family and was 
generous to the team with his money, especially when it came to illness 
or injuries, and he is known as the Giant's most well-liked owner. They 
even played a benefit game for him in which they donated their pay to him. 
J.M. Bright purchased the Cuban Giants from Cook in June 1887. Bright was 
able to get them into the Middle States League in 1889, as joining a league 
was something the team had been trying to do for some time. However, Bright 
was not nearly as well-liked as Cook, and had to deal often with renegade 
players. This would be the team's last year in Trenton. In 1890 the entire 
team fled and played as the Colored Monarchs of York, Pennsylvania. In 
1891, the heart of the team fled to their rival, Ambrose Davis’ Gorhams 
of New York City, then called the Big Gorhams. This dismantling and reassembling 
of the team became routine year after year until 1896, when E.B. Lamar 
Jr. from Brooklyn bought the team from Bright, renaming them the Cuban 
X-Giants. Bright responded by putting together an inferior team calling 
them the "Genuine Cuban Giants" or the "Original Cuban Giants." The Cuban 
X-Giants had a successful ten-year run as one of the best black teams in 
the East. In 1885, the year of the inception of the Cuban Giants, Henry 
Flagler built the Ponce de Leon Hotel in St. Augustine, Florida. Many members 
of the Cuban Giants worked at the hotel and played exhibition games as 
entertainment for the patrons of the hotel (Malloy). This is a point of 
contention, because some people say that the Cuban Giants actually worked 
at the hotel and began their baseball careers as something fun to do after 
they got off work, and others say that they didn't actually play at the 
hotel until their team was actually established. What is known though is 
that "playing for the wealthy clientele that frequented Flagler's empire 
kept the team afloat until they headed... to... Trenton, New Jersey" (Heaphy 
16). During their first summer season, 1886, the Cuban Giants played a 
game at a field in Trenton, New Jersey. At the time, Trenton did not have 
a hometown baseball team. The Cuban Giants gladly took the space, and Trenton 
became their "home base" (Malloy). Soon after moving to Trenton, a man 
named Walter Cook took over the job of booking games for the team. Cook 
also established salaries for the players (Heaphy 16). Walter Cook used 
the position that the player filled to determine how much they earned. 
The average pay for pitchers and catchers was about $18.00 per week, plus 
expenses. Outfielders made about $15.00 per week, and infielders made about 
$12.00 per week. These salaries were much more money than African Americans 
could have expected to make in a regular job at the time (Heaphy 16). Today, 
these salaries seem very low. In 2006, the minimum baseball player's salary 
was $380,000, while the average salary was $2,699,292 (mlbplayers.mlb.com). 
"The Giants…played a number of winters in Havana, Cuba" (Heaphy 17). The 
Giants had discovered that the key to being financially stable was to play 
baseball all year round. Cuba was a perfect place for them to play their 
winter seasons, because they could avoid the cold temperatures that were 
common in New Jersey in the winter, and they drew huge crowds when they 
played in Havana. They were so popular in fact that they played "…in front 
of as many as 15,000 fans" (Heaphy 17). This is very impressive for the 
late 19th century, considering that the average attendance per game for 
the Philadelphia Baseball Grounds, a popular baseball venue at the time, 
in 1890 was 2,231 per game (baseball-statistics.com). Some of the prominent 
players were: Among them Boyd, Harrison, Selden, Thomas, Williams, and 
