The Cuban Baseball Hall of Fame (Salón de la Fama del Béisbol Cubano) is 
a hall of fame that honors eminent baseball players from Cuban baseball. 
Established in 1939 to honor players, managers, and umpires in the pre-revolution 
Cuban League, by 1961 it had honored 68 players, managers, and umpires 
whose names are shown on a marble plaque at Havana's Estadio Latinoamericano.[1] 
After the revolution, however, the Hall of Fame languished for more than 
50 years, seldom mentioned or acknowledged and with no new inductees. Following 
a campaign led by Cuban filmmaker Ian Padrón, a meeting was held on November 
7–8, 2014 to reformulate the Hall of Fame and to propose a museum in which 
it would be housed. The reformulated Hall recognized the original 68 members, 
and a jury of 25 people selected 10 new inductees—five from the pre-revolution 
period and five representing for the first time the post-revolution Cuban 
National Series. The planned site for the new museum is in the José Antonio 
Echeverría Workers' Social Club (also known as the Vedado Tennis Club).[2] 
The Cuban Baseball Hall of Fame was established by the DGND (Dirección 
General Nacional de Deportes), a government agency supervising sports activities 
in Cuba.[3] The hall was inaugurated on July 26, 1939—about six weeks after 
the June 12 dedication and opening of the U.S. National Baseball Hall of 
Fame and Museum in Cooperstown—by placing a bronze plaque at Havana's La 
Tropical Stadium.[4] The first ten inductees were selected by former and 
current baseball writers and the DGND's baseball advisers (asesores de 
baseball). The inaugural class included 19th-century Cuban stars (Antonio 
María García, Valentín González, Adolfo Luján, and Carlos Royer), black 
players who had achieved success in the U.S. Negro leagues (Luis Bustamante, 
José de la Caridad Méndez, Gervasio González, and Cristóbal Torriente), 
and white players who had played Major League Baseball (Rafael Almeida 
and Armando Marsans).[5] Méndez and Torriente, along with later inductee 
Martín Dihigo, subsequently were also recognized by the U.S. Hall of Fame.[6] 
The bronze plaque was subsequently replaced by a marble plaque that hangs 
on a wall "in a poorly lit corner" of Havana's Estadio Latinoamericano.[7] 
Before listing the names of the inductees, the introductory section of 
the plaque reads, While all of the inductees were recognized as baseball 
players, in several cases their distinction reflected, at least in part, 
accomplishments achieved after their playing careers. For example, Emilio 
Sabourín, Agustín Molina, and José Rodríguez were long-time managers who 
won championships, as also were more celebrated players such as Dihigo, 
Miguel Angel González, Adolfo Luque, and Marsans.[8] Francisco A. Poyo 
and Eustaquio Gutiérrez served as umpires.[9] Carlos Zaldo, Eugenio Jiménez, 
and Molina entered the business side of baseball as stadium developer, 
promoter, and league administrator.[10] Wenceslao Gálvez wrote a history 
of baseball in Cuba, published in 1889, which according to Roberto González 
Echevarría "may very well be the first history of the game ever written 
anywhere."[11] Other inductees achieved distinction outside of baseball. 
For example, Juan Antiga, who played in the Cuban League for just two seasons 
prior to completing medical school, became a notable intellectual, homeopath, 
government official, and diplomat, serving as ambassador to Switzerland 
and delegate to the League of Nations.[12] The type of post-playing distinction 
most often recognized by the hall, however, is military service, especially 
during the Cuban War of Independence that was fought from 1895 to 1898. 
Alfredo Arango, Eduardo Machado, and Carlos Maciá served as officers in 
the Cuban revolutionary army and Sabourín, Juan Manuel Pastoriza, and Ricardo 
Cabaleiro died in the conflict.[13] In the 20th century, opportunities 
to play in the United States became increasingly important to Cuban players. 
Some of the earliest opportunities to play in the U.S. came in nearby Key 
West beginning about 1890. Key West had an independent baseball league 
with considerable participation by Cuban emigrants, and Cuban League players 
were recruited to play there during the off season. Cuban Baseball Hall 
of Fame inductees Molina and Poyo began their baseball careers in Key West 
before moving on to the Cuban League.[14] In 1899, a Cuban all-star team, 
the All Cubans, undertook their first barnstorming tour of the United States. 
The team, which was racially integrated (reflecting the racial integration 
of the Cuban League) played against professional and semi-professional 
teams, white and black, until 1905.[15] However, the U.S. color line soon 
affected Cuban players. By 1904, white Cubans, such as Juan Violá, were 
playing in the minor leagues, and in 1911 Rafael Almeida and Armando Marsans 
broke into the majors with the Cincinnati Reds.[16] Meanwhile, Cubans with 
darker complexions played in the Negro leagues for teams such as the Cuban 
Stars (West), the Cuban Stars (East), and the New York Cubans. Some Cuban 
players moved on to success with U.S. teams, such as José Méndez with the 
Kansas City Monarchs and Cristóbal Torriente with the Chicago American 
Giants.[17] After the closing of the Cuban League in 1961, inductions to 
the Cuban Baseball Hall of Fame ceased in Havana for more than five decades. 
The players who had migrated to the United States, however, formed an organization, 
the Federation of Professional Cuban Baseball Players in Exile (Federación 
de Peloteros Profesionales Cubanos en el Exilio) which held elections in 
Miami to add new members to the hall.[18] These additional members are 
not universally recognized; they are not recognized in Cuba,[19] nor are 
they included in lists of Hall of Fame inductees shown in reference books 
by historians Peter Bjarkman and Jorge Figueredo.[20] The Miami elections 
continued in three phases—1962 through 1986, 1997 through 1998, and 2007—ultimately 
declaring more than 200 additional individuals as inductees.[21] In August 
2014, Cuban filmmaker and baseball fan Ian Padrón brought together a group 
of 12 prominent fans to create a group called Enthusiasts for the Refoundation 
of the Cuban Baseball Hall of Fame. The group developed a set of rules 
to govern a reformulated hall which would recognize the 68 original members, 
provide for regular elections of additional professional and amateur players 
from both the pre-revolution and post-revolution periods, and would help 
arrange for the hall to be part of a Cuban baseball museum. With support 
from the National Institute of Sport, Physical Education, and Recreation 
(INDER), a meeting of sports commentators was held on November 7–8, 2014. 
The meeting approved the draft rules, selected a jury of 25 people to select 
the inductees, and planned for subsequent annual elections. Four players 
and an umpire were honored from the pre-revolution era—Conrado (Connie) 
Marrero, Orestes (Minnie) Miñoso, Camilo Pascual, Esteban (Steve) Bellán, 
and umpire Amado Maestri. Five players were also honored the post-revolution 
era, the first players from that period to be recognized—Omar Linares, 
Orestes Kindelán, Antonio Muñoz, Luis Casanova, and Braudilio Vinent.[2] 
