The Cubs–White Sox rivalry (also known as the Crosstown Classic, The Windy 
City Showdown,[1] Chicago Showdown, Red Line Series, North-South Showdown,[2] 
Halsted Street Series, City Series, Crosstown Series,[3] Crosstown Cup, 
or Crosstown Showdown[3]) refers to the Major League Baseball (MLB) geographical 
rivalry between the Chicago Cubs and the Chicago White Sox. The Cubs are 
a member club of MLB's National League (NL) Central division, and play 
their home games at Wrigley Field, located on Chicago's North Side. The 
White Sox are a member club of MLB's American League (AL) Central division, 
and play their home games at Guaranteed Rate Field, located on Chicago's 
South Side. The terms "North Siders" and "South Siders" are synonymous 
with the respective teams and their fans, setting up an enduring rivalry. 
The White Sox currently lead the regular season series 49–44. There have 
been nine series sweeps since interleague play began: six by the Cubs in 
1998, 2004, 2007, 2008, and both series in 2013, and three by the White 
Sox in 1999, 2008, and 2012. The Chicago Transit Authority's Red Line runs 
north-south through Chicago's neighborhoods, stopping at Wrigley Field 
and Guaranteed Rate Field. Halsted Street (800 W) also runs north-south 
passing each park within a distance of .5 miles. The rivalry between the 
two teams and their fans dates back to the founding of the American League. 
In 1900, Charles Comiskey moved his Saint Paul Saints minor league franchise 
to Chicago. It is believed that the Cubs owner at the time was not happy, 
and filed a suit against Comiskey. After talks, it was decided that Comiskey 
could move his team to Chicago, pending that Chicago was not used in the 
title of the team name, and that the team play south of 35th Street.[citation 
needed] In response, the team was renamed the "White Stockings", which 
had been the original name of the Cubs from 1876 to 1889. The establishment 
of a new team in the city was a direct challenge to the National League 
franchise, which had been the idea behind the formation of the American 
League. As the AL gained in popularity (with cheaper prices on admission 
and alcohol), the NL recognized the equality of the AL. This recognition 
did little to stem the rivalry between owners, players, and fans. While 
teams in New York City (such as the Yankees, Giants, and Brooklyn Dodgers) 
routinely played against each other in World Series matchups throughout 
the 1940s and 1950s, the two Chicago teams only met once in the 1906 World 
Series, a celebrated event that seemingly put the city on hold for a full 
week. The heavily favored but young Cubs (who had won 116 games in the 
regular season) lost in six games to the veteran and pitching-strong White 
Sox, "The Hitless Wonders." Between the teams meeting in the 1906 World 
Series and the beginning of interleague play in 1997, the Cubs and White 
Sox would routinely meet, usually yearly, in exhibition matches, which 
did not count toward the teams' rankings in their respective league standings, 
which took away some of the excitement. At best, they provided bragging 
rights to the winner.[citation needed] 1985 saw the start of an annual 
"Windy City Classic" charity game. The series alternated between the respective 
teams' ballparks, with Comiskey Park hosting the first year followed by 
Wrigley Field the next. The Sox would go 10-0-2 in this affair that lasted 
through 1995. (Two games were played in 1995.) Since interleague play began 
in 1997, the White Sox and Cubs have routinely played each other six times 
each year (one three-game series at each stadium). Based on the availability 
of tickets and the prices offered through ticket brokers, these games are 
among the most anticipated of the season. These games have featured a variety 
of heroics, perceived slights, and errors on both sides that have added 
fuel to the rivalry. In 2008, the teams played each other as leaders of 
their respective divisions for the first time ever: the White Sox in the 
American League Central and the Cubs in the National League Central. Also 
for the first time in the rivalry's history, both Sunday games to end each 
series were televised nationally on ESPN's Sunday Night Baseball. The Chicago 
Cubs swept the White Sox in the first weekend series at Wrigley Field, 
and the White Sox subsequently swept the Cubs at U.S. Cellular Field during 
the second weekend series, thus splitting the series 3–3 and resulting 
in an all-time interleague series tie of 33–33 through 2008. The BP Crosstown 
Cup was introduced in 2010 and the White Sox won the trophy the first three 
seasons before the Cubs finally won it in 2013. The Cubs winning the 4 
games of their 2013 series marks the interleague series at 49–45 to the 
White Sox. In 2014 the White Sox reclaimed the Crosstown Cup after winning 
the first three games of their four-game series. They won the first two 
games at Wrigley Field 3-1 in 12 and 4-1 respectively, came back to U.S. 
Cellular Field to win 8-3 before getting blown out in the final game 12-5. 
The rivalry turned physical on Saturday, May 20, 2006, when a brawl broke 
out during a White Sox-Cubs game at U.S. Cellular Field.[4] In the bottom 
of the second inning, Brian Anderson of the White Sox hit a sacrifice fly, 
attempting to score catcher A. J. Pierzynski.[4] Pierzynski collided with 
Cub catcher Michael Barrett. Barrett dropped the ball in the collision 
and Pierzynski was safe. After slapping home plate in celebration, Pierzynski 
began to walk away, but Barrett blocked his path and punched him in the 
jaw. Both benches cleared and a brawl broke out.[4] Umpires debated for 
15 minutes before ejecting Pierzynski, Barrett, White Sox outfielder Brian 
Anderson and Cubs first baseman John Mabry from the game.[5] When play 
finally resumed, outfielder Scott Podsednik promptly got on base, loading 
the bases up, and second baseman Tadahito Iguchi cleared them with a grand-slam. 
The White Sox won the game, 7–0.[6] Michael Barrett was suspended for 10 
games, while Brian Anderson was suspended for five and A. J. Pierzynski 
was fined.[7] In 2006, Pierzynski was named one of the five American League 
players in the All-Star Final Vote. Soon afterwards the Chicago White Sox 
organization began an election campaign using the slogan "Punch A.J.", 
inspired by the May 20, 2006 collision and slugging incident between Pierzynski 
and Michael Barrett. Pierzynski received 3.6 million votes, the most votes 
in the American League, subsequently sending him to his second All-Star 
appearance.[5][8] The White Sox have always been located on the south side. 
At the time the White Sox came to town, the Cubs' home field was West Side 
Park, in an older section of the city which is now the West Campus of the 
University of Illinois at Chicago and near the United Center, home of the 
Chicago Bulls and Chicago Blackhawks. (Coincidentally, for a few seasons 
in the early 1890s the Cubs home park was within a block of the sites of 
the future Sox ballparks.) In 1916 the Cubs moved from the west to the 
north side, taking over Weeghman Park, the abandoned Federal League facility 
(later renamed Wrigley Field), thus setting up the current separation. 
When the new Comiskey Park (now called Guaranteed Rate Field, previously 
called U.S. Cellular Field from 2003-2016) was built, many in the media 
and baseball (including both Cubs and White Sox fans) called the park "sterile", 
and lacking the beauty and personality of the old park, even though many 
seats at the old park were cramped, behind posts, or in the outfield. Others 
contend that in contrast Wrigley Field is dirty, uncomfortable, and generally 
unpleasant to be in. Regardless, this again set up a point of rivalry as 
Cubs fans had their classic park, while White Sox fans had their modern 
park. Former Sox manager Ozzie Guillén said of Wrigley, "But one thing 
about Wrigley Field, I puke every time I go there", further polarizing 
this point of contention. While several renovations to Guaranteed Rate 
Field have silenced many criticisms, such as the improved upper deck and 
bleachers, the difference between the fields remains a point of rivalry 
between fans of the teams. When the Tribune Company bought the Cubs, they 
immediately started pressing for night baseball, threatening to abandon 
Wrigley Field otherwise. Night baseball was finally added in 1988, and 
after some further negotiations with the city, in the winter of 2005–2006 
they expanded Wrigley's bleachers for the first time since 1938. Even the 
neighborhoods around the stadiums show the difference between the fans. 
Wrigleyville, a part of the Lakeview neighborhood, surrounds the Cubs' 
stadium, and comprises middle- and upper-middle-class housing, as well 
as many restaurants, bars and music venues for fans to visit before and 
after games. Bridgeport neighborhood directly west of the White Sox home 
field has a more "blue-collar" reputation. There are bars and restaurants 
in Bridgeport, too; however, White Sox fans must walk or drive a few blocks 
from Guaranteed Rate Field to get to them. Until April, 2011, the White 
Sox opened a brand new bar & restaurant located at Gate 5 of Guaranteed 
Rate Field, known as ChiSox Bar & Grill.[9] The new bar & restaurant doesn't 
require a game ticket to enter. Until 2004, WGN-TV and the now-defunct 
FSN Chicago would "switch off" during interleague games: for the Cubs home 
games, the Cubs commentary team would call the game, while the Sox commentary 
team would have the call for their home games. Starting in 2005, both WGN 
and then newly created Comcast SportsNet Chicago show the games on each 
network with both commentary crews at the same time, allowing the viewer 
to watch the game without an opposing team bias. The stations generally 
switch off each day (For example, in a series at Wrigley Field, WGN would 
treat the game on Friday as a Cubs home game with CSN treating it as a 
White Sox away game; on Sunday WGN will broadcast a White Sox away game 
and CSN will show a Cubs home game; with the other game alternating between 
WGN and CSN). While New York of the 1940s and 1950s often had two or three 
teams vying for championships, the two Chicago teams had comparatively 
little to celebrate for a long time, except for pennants in 1945 (Cubs) 
and 1959 (Sox), until the White Sox won the 2005 World Series. Historically, 
each team's fans felt bad for their own team's relatively poor performance, 
but took solace in that the other team was doing just as badly. Thus, the 
rivalry often was one in which fans of one team are just as happy for the 
poor play of the other team as they are for the good play of their own 
(schadenfreude). This above all is what made the Chicago rivalry unique 
in Major League Baseball. An examination of other great rivalries (Yankees–Red 
Sox, Mets–Yankees, A's–Giants, Dodgers–Giants) shows that both teams have 
made World Series appearances on a fairly regular basis. The animosity 
among fans (that only rarely escalates to violence) is summed up in the 
lines from the song "The Ballad of the South Side Irish", echoing sentiments 
often expressed by at least one side of any number of sports rivalries 
in America: "When it comes to baseball I've got two favorite clubs, the 
'go-go White Sox'...and whoever plays the Cubs." Ardent fans such as the 
late columnist Mike Royko, a Cubs fan, and late writer Nelson Algren, a 
Sox fan, would take their shots at the other team. Royko once wrote that 
the reason Sox fans have a "bad attitude" is that when they would go to 
games at Comiskey Park, the stench of the Union Stock Yards would fill 
their nostrils and remind them of the status of their team. The stockyards 
closed in 1971. Several Cubs and White Sox fans have made a cottage industry 
selling shirts, hats, and other souvenirs that include slogans intended 
to take swipes at the opposing teams, rather than support their own. Time 
reported that 36% of Cubs fans were rooting against the White Sox during 
the 2005 World Series.[10] White Sox Fans wave the Blue Cubs Loss flag 
after their team defeats the Cubs in mockery of the Cubs Win Flag tradition. 
Team owners naturally encourage such rivalries (two-time Sox owner Bill 
Veeck was a master at it) in the hope that they will translate to increased 
gate receipts, and the Cubs-Sox interleague games have borne out that theory. 
President Barack Obama, an avid White Sox fan, has taken verbal jabs at 
the Cubs on several occasions. When the New York Yankees (managed by former 
Cub Joe Girardi) visited the White House in honor of their 2009 World Series 
championship, Obama said, "It's been nine years since your last title—which 
must have felt like eternity for Yankee fans. I think other teams would 
be just fine with a spell like that. The Cubs, for example."[11] Obama 
however, has stated that while he is aware that many people hate the other 
team, he does not hate the Cubs and wants them to win as long as they are 
not playing the White Sox.[citation needed] While not meant in the most 
literal sense to most fans, there is an overall feeling that both teams' 
misfortunes began with unfortunate events which some claim have cursed 
both teams into their poor play. This adds to the overall downtrodden feelings 
that fans feel for their own teams, making it much easier to revel in the 
poor play of the other. The two teams have the longest droughts in the 
MLB. The Cubs had a 108-year drought that went from 1908 to 2016, and the 
White Sox had an 88-year drought that went from 1917 to 2005. The Chicago 
Cubs won ten National League championships between 1901 and 1945, and also 
had among the best winning percentages in the NL up to that time (3796-3022 
for a 0.557 winning percentage). The Cubs had a 2 games to 1 lead over 
the Detroit Tigers in the 1945 World Series, when on October 6, 1945, Cubs 
fan and local tavern owner Billy Sianis was prevented from reaching his 
seat because he was accompanied by his pet billy goat. Local legend says 
that he responded by placing a curse on the Cubs to never again win the 
World Series, which they have not been able to until 2016. The Cubs, on 
more than one occasion, have featured a tongue-in-cheek promotion where 
billy goats are brought into the stadium to be offered as an apology. Some 
historians argue that the genesis of the curse goes back much farther; 
that the allegededly underhanded way they won the 1908 pennant (leading 
to their last World Series win) angered the "baseball gods". For lack of 
a standard term, this could be called the curse of Fred Merkle, since he 
was at the center of the controversy. Every post-season they have participated 
in since then seems to have featured a disaster of some kind, from Hack 
Wilson losing a fly ball in the sun, to Babe Ruth's called shot, to the 
"Steve Bartman incident." When they won the division in 1984, their first 
title since 1945, manager Jim Frey shouted in the champagne-soaked clubhouse, 
"The monkey's off our back!" Some fans took that as the kiss of death... 
which it proved to be, as the Padres late-inning rally in the final game 
in San Diego featured a ground ball slipping under the glove of first baseman 
Leon Durham... an eerie precursor to a similar and much-more-memorilazed 
incident with the Red Sox and former Cubs first baseman Bill Buckner that 
would occur two years later. That requires a quick mention of the "Ex-Cubs 
Factor", an offshoot of the main Cubs "curse": that any team reaching the 
post-season since the 1945 Series, and having 3 or more ex-Cubs, was almost 
certainly doomed to lose in either the playoffs or the Series due to "a 
critical mass of Cubness". The 1960 Pirates had been the lone exception 
until 2001, when the Diamondbacks effectively ended talk of that curse 
by winning the Series in a dramatic finish that featured 2 of the 3 ex-Cubs, 
one of them (Luis Gonzalez) making the game-winning RBI. The White Sox 
had the best winning percentage of any American League team from 1901 to 
1920 (1638–1325 for a 0.553 winning percentage), but quickly slipped to 
among the worst teams after that. Many point to the Black Sox scandal surrounding 
the 1919 World Series as the point in history that changed the White Sox 
fortunes. Eight White Sox players conspired to intentionally lose the World 
Series, and in 1920 were banned from baseball for life. While the White 
Sox won 4 AL titles in the first 20 years of their existence, they would 
win only one more league championship in the twentieth century. The term 
"curse" has seldom been used as such, since the scandal was perceived to 
be something the players did to themselves rather than being wrought by 
the front office conducting ill-advised transactions or committing public 
relations gaffes. In fact, many White Sox fans take offense to the term 
"curse." Still, a pall seemed to settle on the franchise (along with a 
slim budget), and it would be the last years of the Eisenhower administration 
before they would win the league championship again. When the White Sox 
clinched the pennant in '59, broadcaster Jack Brickhouse capped his play-by-play 
with, "A forty year wait has now ended!" The 2005 pennant ended a forty-six-year 
wait for the next one, while the 2005 World Championship ended an 88-year 
wait for a World Series victory. This adds a decidedly interesting twist 
on the rivalry as there were, until 2005, very few fans for either team 
who were alive to see one side actually claim a title while the other waited. 
Note: Pennants won by both teams, also include pennants before the Modern 
World Series. As of November 3, 2016. Updated to most recent meeting, 28 
July 2016 This is a list of results from all of the meetings between the 
Chicago Cubs and Chicago White Sox from their first meeting in 1906 to 
