The culture of Cuba is a complex mixture of different, often contradicting, 
factors and influences. The Cuban people and their customs are based on 
African, European and indigenous American influences.[1] The music of Cuba, 
including the instruments and the dances, is mostly of European and African 
origin. Most forms of the present day are creolized fusions and mixtures 
of these two great sources. Almost nothing remains of the original Native 
traditions. Fernando Ortíz, the first great Mexican folklorist, described 
Cuba's musical innovations as arising from the interplay ('transculturation') 
between African slaves settled on large sugarcane plantations and Spanish 
or Canary Islanders who grew tobacco on small farms. The African slaves 
and their descendants reconstructed large numbers of percussive instruments 
and corresponding rhythms.[2] The great instrumental contribution of the 
Spanish was their guitar, but even more important was the tradition of 
European musical notation and techniques of musical composition. African 
beliefs and practices are most certainly an influence in Cuba's music. 
Polyrhythmic percussion is an inherent part of African life & music, as 
melody is part of European music. Also, in African tradition, percussion 
is always joined to song and dance, and to a particular social setting. 
It is not simply entertainment added to life, it is life.[3] The result 
of the meeting of European and African cultures is that most Cuban popular 
music is creolized. This creolization of Cuban life has been happening 
for a long time, and by the 20th century, elements of African belief, music 
and dance were well integrated into popular and folk forms. The roots of 
most Afro-Cuban musical forms lie in the cabildos, self-organized social 
clubs for the African slaves, separate cabildos for separate cultures. 
The cabildos were formed mainly from four groups: the Yoruba (the Lucumi 
in Cuba); the Congolese (Palo in Cuba); Dahomey (the Fon or Arará). Other 
cultures were undoubtedly present, but in smaller numbers, and they did 
not leave such a distinctive presence. At the same time, African religions 
were transmitted from generation to generation throughout Cuba, Haiti, 
other islands and Brazil. These religions, which had a similar but not 
identical structure, were known as Lucumi or Regla de Ocha if they derived 
from the Yoruba, Palo from Central Africa, Vodú from Haiti, and so on. 
The term Santería was first introduced to account for the way African spirits 
were joined to Catholic saints, especially by people who were both baptized 
and initiated, and so were genuinely members of both groups. By the 20th 
century, elements of Santería music had appeared in popular and folk forms.[4] 
One of the main rhythmic fusions in Cuban music is the son. Other typical 
Cuban forms are the habanera, the guaracha, the danzón, the rumba, the 
bolero, the chachachá, the mambo,the cha-cha-cha, the punto, and many variations 
on these themes.[5] Cuban music has been immensely popular and influential 
in other countries. It was the original basis of salsa and contributed 
not only to the development of jazz, but also to Argentinian tango, Ghanaian 
high-life, West African Afrobeat, and Spanish nuevo flamenco. Within modern 
Cuba, there are also popular musicians working in the rock and reggaeton 
idioms. Cuban hip-hop is one of the latest genres of music to be embraced 
not only by the country's youth but also, more reluctantly, by the government. 
Initially, hip-hop was shunned by the authorities, because of its affiliation 
to America and capitalism. As more Cuban youth put their own energy and 
style into the music, Cuban hip-hop eventually became more acceptable. 
"The Cuban government now sees rap music – long considered the music of 
American imperialism – as a road map to the hearts and minds of the young 
generation"[6][7] is one opinion. Fidel Castro's belief in socialism and 
the benefits of sports (he loves and has played baseball) has resulted 
in Cuba's relative international success for a population of 11 million 
in sporting events such as the Olympic Games. Unlike in most of Latin America, 
but like many nations of the Caribbean and some of Central America, football 
is not a major game in Cuba, but is gaining popularity. Baseball is the 
most popular sport in Cuba. Introduced by American dockworkers in Havana 
in the 19th century, the game has played a role in Cuban independence from 
Spain. Banned in 1895 by the Spanish, secret games funded José Martí's 
revolt. Cuban peloteros rank highly internationally and some have migrated 
to Major League Baseball in the United States. The Cuba national baseball 
team finished second in the first World Baseball Classic against the Japanese 
national team. Boxing is also rather popular. They also enjoy basketball, 
track and field, volleyball, and rugby union. Every year, Cuba holds the 
School Sports Games, a competition for students [clarification needed]. 
The best athletes from age 11 to 16 are invited to be tested for the Schools 
for Sports Initiation (Spanish acronym: EIDE). EIDE students attend regular 
classes, receive advanced coaching and take part in higher level competitions. 
The top graduates from the school enter one of several Schools of Higher 
Athletic Performance (Spanish acronym: ESPA). A ration book called a libreta 
is supposed to guarantee a range of products from shops, however, there 
are still massive shortages and even rations are not guaranteed to be delivered 
timely or at all. The Soviet Union's collapse in 1991 ended grain imports 
from that country, which were used to feed cattle and chickens. In 1991, 
beef, chicken, milk and eggs became scarce. A lack of fuel for agricultural 
machinery meant that crops had to be harvested manually (by people), drastically 
decreasing Cuba's food production capabilities. These problems have improved 
a little in recent years, but shortages are still common. To supplement 
their rations, Cubans resort to non-rationed food stores (where prices 
are nevertheless several times those of the libreta), or to the black market. 
Traditional Cuban food is, as most cultural aspects of this country, a 
syncretism of Spanish, African and Caribbean cuisines, with a small but 
noteworthy Chinese influence. The most popular foods are black beans, rice, 
and meat. One example of traditional Cuban cuisine, or criollo as it is 
called, is moros y cristianos, "Moors and Christians", rice with black 
beans. Criollo uses many different seasonings, with some of the most common 
being onion and garlic. Cassava, rice, beans, eggs, tomatoes, lettuce, 
chicken, beef and pork are all common ingredients. Coffee is of high quality 
and grown mainly for export, the common coffee drink in Cuba is imported 
from Africa.... Cuba's policy on religion has changed much since 1959, 
when religious Cubans were persecuted and could be denied jobs or an education 
by the government. In the 1970s, the relationship between the government 
and religious institutions (especially the Roman Catholic Church) began 
to improve. By 1976, the state granted Cuban citizens religious freedom, 
with some restrictions. In 1992, the constitution was amended to allow 
total religious freedom. About 60% of Cubans today are Catholic.[8] Some 
Catholic traditions were lost, but the church has imported the Mexican 
Christmas play (pastorela) trying to reconnect Cubans to Christianity. 
Cuba is a primarily Christian country. Another large religion in Cuba is 
Santería. Santería is a blend of Catholicism and traditional Yoruba religions. 
When African slaves first arrived in Cuba during the 16th century, they 
were taught a few simple prayers and were baptised by the Spanish. The 
slaves combined this limited form of Catholicism with their traditional 
religions to create Santería, which survives to this day. During colonial 
times and into the early Republic, many Cubans suffered from intense ethnocentrism 
and confused Afro-Cuban religion with black magic and witchcraft. This 
caused them to associate practitioners of Santería and other Afro-Cuban 
cultures with criminals and the underworld, and to discriminate against 
practitioners without understanding the nature of their religion. Because 
most practitioners of Santería in those years were of African heritage, 
racist attitudes emerged around the religion, and many whites in Cuba considered 
it to be subversive and threatening. Those who practiced Santería often 
resorted to secrecy as a way to avoid persecution. Fernando Ortiz, Lydia 
Cabrera, and Rómulo Lachatañeré are considered the founders of Afro-Cuban 
studies in Cuba and were the first to give scholarly attention to Santería 
as an important religion in Cuba.[9] As a former colony of Spain, Spanish 
is spoken in Cuba. After the Cuban Revolution, the term "compañero/compañera", 
meaning comrade, came to gradually replace the traditional "señor/señora" 
as the universal polite title of address for strangers. A significant number 
of Afro-Cubans as well as the biracial Cubans speak Haitian Creole. Haitian 
Creole is the second most spoken language as well as a recognized one in 
Cuba with approximately 300,000 speakers. That is about 4% of the population. 
Haiti was a French colony, and the final years of the 1791–1804 Haitian 
Revolution brought a wave of French settlers fleeing with their Haitian 
slaves to Cuba. Many words from Cuban Amerindian languages have entered 
common usage in both Spanish and English, such as the Taíno words canoa, 
tobacco and huracán. Some of the place names are Indian, such as Guanabacoa, 
and Guanajay. When speaking to the elderly, or to strangers, Cubans speak 
more formally as a sign of respect. They shake hands upon greeting someone 
and farewelling them. Men often exchange friendly hugs (abrazos) and it 
is also common for both men and women to greet friends and family with 
a hug and a kiss on the cheek. Informalities like addressing a stranger 
with 'mi corazón' (my heart), 'mi vida' (my life), or 'cariño' (dear) are 
common. The Revolution of 1959 sparked the turning point in Cuban family 
life by promoting women's equality. New laws and policies resulted in women 
being educated, employed, and increased their civil/human rights. Cuban 
revolutionary thought promoted class equality rather than gender equality, 
but women still benefited indirectly from social changes. Because Cubans, 
like many Latin Americans, tend to live together as a nuclear family, grandparents 
often provide childcare for women in the household who work outside the 
home, or attend school. The Maternity Law actually 'created' the working 
woman in Cuba [state when this law was passed, and what it says]. "Whereas 
in 1955, 13 percent of the workforce was women, by 1989, the number had 
risen to 38.7 percent of the workforce in Cuba.".[10] In addition, The 
Family Code of 1975, especially Article 26 of the code, called for women 
and men to take equal responsibility for domestic labor and childcare.[11] 
Marriages, divorce, children's rights, adoption, and marital property were 
addressed in this new law, as were the division of family responsibilities, 
equal rights for marriage partners, and the sharing of household tasks. 
However, there were still 'personal' obligations that women had to assume 
with marriage, such as 'maternal rights,' which were a norm in Cuban traditional 
society. Despite progressive measures imposed by law, some traditions stayed 
remained intact, and new norms for the Cuban family took time to develop. 
Marriage rates in Cuba have traditionally been significantly stagnant. 
In the 1980s and the early 1990s marriage rates were relatively high, with 
151 and 171 marriages per every 1000 inhabitants respectively. Women [university] 
educated tended to get married at an older age, and have fewer children; 
compared to "publicly schooled" educated women. Informal relations between 
a married man and an unmarried woman has been evaluated as such; "28% were 
women under 30 while the percentage of married women in that time was 23% 
(as of the late 1980's)." [12] "Women under the age of 20 were 21% opposed 
to the 7% of women married at that age (still in the same time period).".[12] 
Yet, this is seen as a typical circumstance in Cuba at that time. Legal 
marriages vs. illegal marriages are 35% vs. 28%. On average in the 1980s 
most people got married around 19 to 20 years old, still, with a more developed 
educational system women are becoming more independent, studying, and working 
better jobs, that since "1994 most people are now getting married around 
the ages of 30-35.".[13] Divorce rates have been a growing fight in Cuba. 
When the revolution of 1959 occurred, divorce rates were starting to be 
observed for the first time. Comparing this information throughout different 
time periods in Cuban life, in "1960 it was 0.1%, 0.3% in the 1980's, 0.35% 
in 1990, 0.41% in 1991, 0.51% in 1992.".[13] This contributed to the fact 
Cubans moving away from the Catholic Church and therefore divorce was no 
longer a social stigma as it had been in the past. Also, when the economy 
started picking up and in 1998, the divorce rate returned to the rate in 
"1990 of 0.35%, and as of 2002[update] 0.354%.".[13] As you can see in 
1991 and 1992 the divorce rate skyrocketed to a point of collapse, in an 
almost instantaneous result of the secession of the USSR communist Russia 
no longer in power in Cuba. "The import/export dropped about 80%," [14] 
petroleum that was received by Russia ceased, and this did not rebuild 
(economically) until 2000, when agricultural growth started to pick up. 
However, Cuba hit rock bottom in 1994, only two years after the succession 
of the USSR. This was during the Special Period in Cuba which created additional 
strain on marriages and split families apart for economic reasons. Abortion 
in Cuba is somewhat liberal, even though there is a Catholic influence. 
When Cuba moved away from the Catholic Church, abortion was no longer illegal 
and no longer had negative social or religious consequences for women. 
The Church has little to no impact on the way women think about abortion. 
The use of contraceptives, birth control, and abortions seem to keep family 
sizes somewhat small and "modern" in comparison to other Latin American 
countries. This in turn makes the Cuban more of a cohesive unit. What is 
meant by "cohesive" is that families with fewer children tend to give more 
attention to the fewer children they actually have. In turn, these families 
with fewer children get to spend more time with them, feed them better, 
and be able to educate them better. "The state does not give any special 
aid to one parent families; however, it gives special needs to the children 
of single parent families. The Cuban government supports women being economically 
independent, though, dislikes the results of higher divorce rates, more 
underage impregnated teens, and female-headed households.".[15] With the 
Family Code of 1975, which aimed at strengthening the standard (two-parent 
nuclear family), was not the case. Remarriage and re-coupling was common, 
so divorce rates reflected a minority of Cuba's population as divorce. 
"As of 1992, couples under the ages of 20 were likely to get divorced," 
[15] as were couples in urban areas. It is estimated that around "200,000 
single parents are present in Cuba." [15] As a matter of fact, observations 
in the Cuban community in "1992 shows that 15-20% of households with children 
are headed by women alone." [15] Pre-Revolutionary attempts for children 
shelters, protection houses, and places to keep children off the street 
were clearly expressed by Skaine: As of the 1600s when the "House of the 
Abandoned" was founded, however was soon neglected, and in 1705 a new management 
took over the house and named it "Foundling House" though this too was 
unsuccessful. The "House of Charity" was founded before the revolution, 
nevertheless, also took its place in the shadows of success because protection 
of the children and the conditions in which they lived were not guaranteed. 
In 1959, the Ministry of Social Welfare was created and the houses were 
not part of the state. Now it was the state that had to provide for the 
minors. In 1960 the Government assigned the Federation of Cuban Women (FCW) 
to take charge of these houses, and set them up accordingly; ages 0–3 (homes 
with cradles), ages 3–6 (pre-scholastic farms), ages 6–12 (scholastic farms), 
ages 12–18 (youthful farms). This was then refined with The Family Code 
of 1975 (giving certain rights/obligations to parents), the Code of the 
Childhood and the Youth, approved in 1978, and the Decree Law 76 of January 
1984 (which created a national network of centers that took care of minors 
without shelter). This new law centered on children up to the age of 5 
with daycare, helped with homes for minors ages 6–17, and also helped children 
who were in school past the age of 17.[16] This gave rise for adoption. 
The Family Code of 1975 made adoption legal for the protection of minors 
who were without families. "There were a few stipulations with this, i.e. 
the adopters had to be 25 years or older, economically stable, morally 
sound, and be able to conduct their selves as sound parents." [17] Complete 
adoption is most prominent in Cuba. Complete adoption consists of severing 
all ties with the adoptees biological parents and that in the adopted family 
and the child has all the same rights as an actual 'biological' child of 
that family. Legally adopted children are looked upon as biological children. 
The Castro government claims to have improved women's rights since the 
revolution, and today, most women work outside of the home. They are assisted 
by things such as childcare facilities, which are common in Cuba. In 1974, 
the Family Code was passed, giving men and women equal rights and responsibilities 
for housework, childrearing and education. However, despite government 
policy, and as with much of Latin America, machismo is common, and stereotypes 
of women continue to exist. In the Special Period of Cuba, the time after 
the Soviet Union collapsed and was no longer able to support Cuba financially, 
leading the small communist nation to seek more tourism. As tourism increased, 
there followed an increase in prostitution.[18] A dance style recently 
emerged, which was involved fast and suggestive shaking of the women's 
lower torso section, simulating sexual activity.[19] With this type of 
dance, the woman's body is seen as more "solo", with moves such as the 
despelote (all-over-the-place) and tembleque (shake-shudder) and the subasta 
de la cintura (waist auction). This idea has offended other women, who 
see this kind of innapropriate, as degrading, forcing them to live up to 
expectations of pleasing their male partners[20] Fairley says people in 
Cuba used to dance by facing their partners, and that nowadays it is often 
a "back to front" dance. She states that the way women dances with reggaeton 
can be compared with sex position and pornography, and claims that Cuba 
has "open and healthy attitudes toward sexuality".[20] Cuban literature 
began to develop its own style in the early 19th century. The major works 
published in Cuba during that time dealt with issues of colonialism, slavery 
and the mixing of races in a creole society. Notable writers of this genre 
include Gertrudis Gómez de Avellaneda, and Cirilo Villaverde, whose novel 
Cecilia Valdés was a landmark. Following the abolition of slavery in 1886, 
the focus of Cuban literature shifted to themes of independence and freedom 
as exemplified by José Martí, who led the modernista movement in Latin 
American literature. The poet Nicolás Guillén's famous Motivos del son 
focused on the interplay between races. Others like Dulce María Loynaz, 
José Lezama Lima and Alejo Carpentier dealt with more personal or universal 
issues. And a few more, such as Reinaldo Arenas and Guillermo Cabrera Infante, 
earned international recognition[citation needed] in the postrevolutionary 
era. Cuba is the birthplace of the literary genre that is called testimonial 
literature. In 1970 Cuba's literary forum Casa de las Américas recognized 
testimonial literature as an official literary genre. Miguel Barnet's literary 
texts were foundational in launching this new genre. Specifically Barnet's 
1966 Biografía de un Cimarrón (Biography of a Runaway Slave), where he 
recorded the oral history of former slave Esteban Montejo, is used to place 
testimonial literature on the literary platform of Casa de las Américas.[21] 
Since Casa de las Américas is a government agency responsible for promoting 
cultural development, the revolutionary government supports this literary 
addition and finds it aligned with the spirit of the revolution. In this 
way, testimonial literature serves the revolutionary ideology in providing 
a voice for the people, specifically a group of people who were underrepresented 
and formerly oppressed prior to the Cuban Revolution. For the purpose it 
serves, this literary genre then gets accredited beyond Cuba and becomes 
a representative genre in other revolutionary countries, where empowering 
the majority of its people is important. According to the author of testimonial 
texts, a testimony is significant because it uses a direct source: A person's 
account of current aspects in Latin American reality. Testimonial literature 
is then defined within the boundaries of autobiographical accounts, documentary 
narratives, eyewitness reports, and oral histories that are later transcribed 
into a literary format.[22] Years after the 1950s and 1960s, a time of 
political and social unrest in Cuba, testimonial literature acknowledged 
personal accounts of historical figures such as that of Ernesto Che Guevara 
and other rebel leaders. Testimonial literature also acknowledged the diaries 
and letters of ordinary people, such as Olga Alonso, Daura Olema, Mercedes 
Santos, Mirta Muñiz, and Sandra Gonzalez, women that participated in the 
literacy campaign and other voluntary programs after the triumph of the 
Revolution.[23] In 1997 Daisy Rubiera Castillo's testimonial biography 
of her mother, Maria de los Reyes Castillo Bueno, Reyita: The Life of a 
Black Cuban Woman in the Twentieth Century, was a finalist in Casa de las 
Américas' literary competition. Described as the first Cuban testimonial 
narrative that used gender as an analytical tool, it constitutes the closest 
perspective with direct knowledge of the experience we have of Black Cuban 
women's lives since the period of slavery.[24] Another example of testimonial 
literature is Juan Francisco Manzano's (1797–1853) Autobiography of a Slave, 
which is the only known autobiography written by a slave in Cuba. Though 
self written many years prior to the identification of testimonial literature, 
Manzano's personal account of his life as a house slave is worthy of mention, 
as it fits perfectly into the criteria of this genre, providing a voice 
