Houston is a multicultural city with a thriving international community 
supported by the third largest concentration of consular offices in the 
United States, representing 86 nations.[1] Officially, Houston is nicknamed 
the "Space City" as it is home to NASA's Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center, 
where Mission Control Center is located. "Houston" was the first word spoken 
on the moon.[2] Many locals refer to Houston as "Bayou City." Other nicknames 
include "H-Town", "Clutch City", and "Magnolia City".[3] About 90 languages 
are regularly spoken in the Houston area.[4] Some neighborhoods with high 
populations of Vietnamese and Chinese residents have Chinese and Vietnamese 
street signs in addition to English ones.[citation needed] Houston has 
two Chinatowns—the original located in East Downtown and the other along 
Bellaire Boulevard in the southwest area of the city. The city also has 
a Little Saigon in Midtown and Vietnamese businesses located in the southwest 
Houston Chinatown.[citation needed] There are many popular events held 
in the city celebrating cultures of Houstonians. The largest[citation needed] 
is the annual Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo that is held over 20 days 
from late February through early March. The event begins with trail rides 
that originate from several points throughout the state, all of which convene 
at Reliant Park for a barbecue cook-off. The rodeo includes typical rodeo 
events, as well as concert performances from major artists and carnival 
rides. Another large celebration is the annual Gay Pride Parade held at 
the end of June to commemorate the struggle for gay liberation, gay rights, 
gay pride, and the Stonewall riots of the late 1960s in New York City. 
The event is held in Downtown Houston (2015 and beyond) – prior to 2014 
the parade was held along Westheimer Road within Neartown—home to many 
gay establishments, such as restaurants, bars, nightclubs, and coffeehouses. 
Other events held annually include the Houston Greek Festival and Houston 
International Festival. Anna Rohleder of Forbes said "Among Houston's wealthy 
denizens, social life centers on charity events and the arts."[5] Houston's 
Theater District is ranked second in the country (behind New York City) 
in the number of theatre seats in a concentrated downtown area with 12,948 
seats for live performances and 1,480 movie seats.[6] The Theater District 
is located in the heart of downtown and is home to nine of Houston's performing 
arts organizations and six performance halls. Houston is one of only five 
cities in the United States with permanent professional resident companies 
in all of the major performing arts disciplines: opera (Houston Grand Opera), 
ballet (Houston Ballet), music (Houston Symphony Orchestra), and theatre 
(Alley Theatre).[7] The city has visual and performing arts organizations, 
along with a dose of homegrown folk art such as Art Cars.[8] Houston is 
widely recognized as an important city for contemporary visual arts.[citation 
needed] The city is a stop for touring companies from Broadway, concerts, 
shows, and exhibitions for a variety of interests, ranging from the nation's 
largest quilting show to auto, boat, home, and gun shows. Houston's theatre 
scene is far larger than the Theatre District, with more than 30 professional, 
regional, and community theatre companies producing full seasons of theatrical 
productions. The most notable being the Alley Theatre, founded in 1947, 
the Alley is the only theatre in Texas to win the Tony Award for best Regional 
Theatre and is the third oldest professional theatre in America. The Alley 
produces a variety of classical and modern works annually. Throughout its 
history the Alley has produced numerous world premiers and productions 
that transferred to Broadway. Theatre Under the Stars, is Houston's premier 
musical theatre company, which performs in residence at The Hobby Center 
for the Performing Arts and produces an admission free musical every summer 
at Miller Outdoor Theatre. Other notable theaters include The Ensemble 
Theatre, which gives voice to the African-American community and Talento 
Bilingüe de Houston, which spotlights playwrights and actors who express 
the Latino experience in America. Other significant theatres include Main 
Street Theater, with its broad spectrum of classical and contemporary classics, 
the quirky Theatre Suburbia, which has developed a reputation in the Houston 
arts community for showcasing local playwrights emphasizing a peculiarly 
Texas perspective, Stages Repertory Theatre, which focuses on bringing 
original works and regional premiers to Houston, Catastrophic Theatre Company, 
a "pay what you can company" that produces experimental theatre, Stark 
Naked Theatre, a theatre company founded by actors to empower their own 
work, and Mildred's Umbrella Theatre, which showcases plays featuring strong 
females. Current information about these theatre companies, venues and 
performances is available through the Houston Arts Alliance web site. Adjacent 
to the Texas Medical Center is the Museum District, which is home to most 
of the city's major museums: the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, the Contemporary 
Arts Museum Houston, the Cullen Sculpture Garden, the Houston Museum of 
Natural Science, the Holocaust Museum Houston, the Children's Museum of 
Houston, Lawndale Art Center, the Houston Zoo, the John P. McGovern Museum 
of Health & Medical Science, and The Menil Collection. Approximately 4 
million people visit institutions in the Museum District every year.[citation 
needed] Houston has an international flavor and is home to several multicultural 
arts organizations including: MECA (Multicultural Education and Counseling 
through the Arts), Kuumba House Dance Theatre, and Nuestra Palabra: Latino 
Writers Having Their Say. Space Center Houston is the official visitors’ 
center of NASA's Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center. Space Center Houston includes 
many interactive exhibits—including moon rocks and a shuttle simulator—in 
addition to special presentations that tell the story of NASA's manned 
space flight program. The Theater District, a 17-block area in the heart 
of downtown Houston, is home to Bayou Place Entertainment Complex, restaurants, 
movies, plazas, and parks. Bayou Place is a large multilevel building that 
is home to restaurants, bars, live music, billiards, theatres, and art 
house films. The Houston Verizon Wireless Theatre stages a variety of live 
concerts and the Angelika Theatre presents the latest in art, foreign, 
and independent films. Houston is home to many parks including Hermann 
Park, which houses the Houston Zoo and the Houston Museum of Natural Science, 
and Memorial Park. What was once the Houston Civic Center was replaced 
by the George R. Brown Convention Center, one of the nation's largest; 
and the Jesse H. Jones Hall for the Performing Arts, home of the Houston 
Symphony Orchestra. The Sam Houston Coliseum and Music Hall have been replaced 
by the Hobby Center for the Performing Arts. Other tourist attractions 
include the Galleria, Texas' largest shopping mall[citation needed] located 
in the Uptown District; Old Market Square; Tranquility Park; and Sam Houston 
Historical Park, which contains restored homes (built between 1824 and 
1868) and reconstructed buildings. The San Jacinto Battlefield is in the 
nearby city of Deer Park. Houston hosted Super Bowl VIII in 1974 and Super 
Bowl XXXVIII 30 years later in 2004, the 1989 NBA All-Star Game, the 1981, 
1986, 1994 and 1995 NBA Finals (The hometown Houston Rockets winning the 
latter 2), 2004 Major League Baseball All-Star Game, Super Bowl XXXVIII 
in 2004, 2005 World Series, the 2005 Big 12 Conference championship game, 
the 2006 NBA All-Star Game, and the Tennis Masters Cup in 2003 and 2004, 
and the annual Shell Houston Open.[citation needed] The city hosts the 
NCAA College Baseball Minute Maid Classic every February. Houston formerly 
hosted the NCAA football's Houston Bowl in December, but now hosts the 
Texas Bowl in January. Houston has a franchise in nearly every major professional 
sports league including: Houston Dynamo (MLS), Houston Astros (MLB), Houston 
Rockets (NBA), Houston Comets (Now Defunct)(WNBA), Houston Aeros (Now Defunct) 
(AHL), Houston Texans (NFL), and Houston Dash (National Women's Soccer 
League). In early 2006, the Champ Car auto racing series returned to Houston 
for a yearly race, held on the streets of the Reliant Park complex. The 
city had previously been home to a Champ Car round from 1998 to 2001.[citation 
needed] Minute Maid Park (home of the Astros), BBVA Compass Stadium (home 
of the Dynamo and Dash) and Toyota Center (home of the Rockets) are located 
downtown. The city has the first domed stadium in the United States, the 
Astrodome, and also holds the NFL's first retractable roof stadium – Reliant 
Stadium.[citation needed] Other sports facilities in Houston are Hofheinz 
Pavilion, Reliant Astrodome, Robertson Stadium, and Rice Stadium. The now 
infrequently used Reliant Astrodome hosted World Wrestling Entertainment's 
WrestleMania X-Seven on April 1, 2001.[9] Houston has not had very much 
success when it comes to its sports teams, at least not lately. The Houston 
Rockets won 2 consecutive championships in 1994 and 1995, and the Houston 
Dynamo also won 2 consecutive championships in 2006 and 2007. The Houston 
Oilers won 2 back-to-back AFL championships in 1960 and 1961, but never 
competed in the Super Bowl since the NFL-AFL merger. The Astros have one 
World Series appearance in 2005. The following professional sports venues 
are located in Houston. The Houston–Sugar Land–Baytown metropolitan area 
is served by a public television station and one public radio station. 
KUHT (HoustonPBS) is a PBS member station and the first public television 
station in the United States. Houston Public Radio is listener-supported 
radio with one NPR member station, KUHF (KUHF News). The University of 
Houston System owns and holds broadcasting licenses to KUHT and KUHF. The 
stations broadcast from the Melcher Center for Public Broadcasting, located 
on the campus of the University of Houston. Houston is served by the Houston 
Chronicle, its only major daily newspaper with wide distribution. The Hearst 
Corporation, which owns and operates The Houston Chronicle, bought the 
assets of the Houston Post—its long-time rival and main competition—when 
it ceased operations in 1995.[citation needed] The only other major publication 
to serve the city is the Houston Press, a free alternative weekly with 
a circulation of more than 300,000 readers.[citation needed] KTRK's Marvin 
Zindler was the most recognized television journalist in Houston and Texas.[citation 
needed] His week-long expose on the Chicken Ranch brothel became the basis 
for the Broadway musical The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas,[citation 
needed] and his consumer and health reports on local restaurants have made 
the phrase "slime in the ice machine" immediately recognizable to any local.[citation 
needed] KHOU-TV's investigative team, "The 11 News Defenders", began an 
investigation into the failure of Firestone Wilderness AT tires on several 
vehicles (including the Ford Explorer). These reports garnered the station 
and the team of Anna Werner, investigative producer David Raziq, and investigative 
photojournalist/editor Chris Henao several national awards, including the 
Edward R. Murrow, George Foster Peabody, and Columbia University DuPont 
Award.[citation needed] Among the journalists who have worked for KHOU, 
the best known are former CBS Evening News anchor Dan Rather, Linda Ellerbee, 
and Jessica Savitch. KXLN Houston's Spanish language Univision and its 
"En Su Defensa" (in your defense) segments have garnered regional acclaim,[citation 
needed] and "En Su Defensa" month was proclaimed by Mayor Bill White in 
2004. Led by Investigative reporter Patricio Espinoza, the segment generated 
strong community following and historic ratings along with several Emmy 
awards through 2005.[citation needed] Houston Not-For-Profit News is a 
subsidiary of World Internet News Cooperative. It is one of Houston's few 
non-profit news sources which receives no money from advertising. It totes 
itself as being unbiased with the ability to be more objective than the 
commercial news media due to the fact that it is not tied to advertisers.[citation 
needed] Stories covered by the cooperative range from consumer rights, 
to corporate welfare, to working-class issues. Their work has also been 
nominated for a Robert F. Kennedy Memorial journalism award.[citation needed] 
Automobiles of all kinds have had enormous influence on Houston culture, 
largely a result of the urban sprawl and sparse public transportation that 
has followed the dismantling of the city's former trolley system. Many 
of the Houston's business districts, such as Uptown and Greenspoint began 
their development as edge cities. Furthermore, many notable neighborhoods 
began as streetcar suburbs, including the Heights and Sharpstown. Car culture 
is often celebrated by residents, especially during the annual Art Car 
Parade where many uniquely modified cars are paraded through the Heights 
neighborhood. Another car culture celebrated in Houston is the slab culture,[10] 
usually found in Houston's inner city neighborhoods (including former Houston-area 
suburban communities, e.g., South Park, Sunnyside, Acres Homes, and enclaves 
in Missouri City). The cars used for slabs are usually restored and/or 
customized full-size GM vehicles (Cadillac Fleetwood, Eldorado, Buick, 
or a restored Oldsmobile, e.g., Cutlass, Delta 88). The slab culture is 
associated with Houston hip-hop musicians.[10] In recent years Houston's 
love affair with the car has cooled somewhat, with car usage falling by 
15.2% since 1995 and heavy investment in public transport, including a 
light rail system opened in 2004, effectively signalling the return of 
the streetcar. Houston has a lively music scene and while it can claim 
no broad genre as its own, it has been fertile ground for the development 
of niche styles in American blues and Latin music --- a tradition that 
continues today with a uniquely distinctive regional style emerging in 
Houston's rap music community. Houston's reputation as a mature center 
for classical music is the product of more than a century of dedication 
and community support. The Houston Symphony (founded in 1913), is the largest 
and best-known of the city's professional orchestras, but they are hardly 
the only option. Other significant orchestras include Mercury Houston and 
the River Oaks Chamber Orchestra, as well as outstanding academic orchestras 
at the Rice University Shepherd School of Music and the University of Houston 
Moores School of Music (home to the 800-seat Moores Opera House). A full 
season of operas is performed in the downtown Theatre District by Houston 
Grand Opera,[11] while a smaller community-based opera company (Opera in 
the Heights) performs in Lambert Hall. Operas are also performed each spring 
and fall at both the Shepherd School of Music and the Moores School of 
Music. Houston Grand Opera performs at least one free show each summer 
at the Miller Outdoor Theatre. As long as there's been popular music in 
America, there have been musicians who grew and developed in Houston contributing 
their own brand to the American cultural milieu. Pop icons from Houston 
include R&B singer Beyoncé, rockers ZZ Top, country legend Kenny Rogers, 
blues master Lightnin' Hopkins, tejano superstar Selena and the folksy 
country songwriter Lyle Lovett, among hundreds of others. Blues music developed 
throughout the Southern United States where several areas developed distinctive 
regional sounds. Houston's distinctive sound grew in the 1920 with early 
influencers like Lightnin' Hopkins and T-Bone Walker.[12] The sound matured 
over the next 50 years, during which it became known as Texas blues. The 
style would gain international notoriety in the modern era when it was 
adopted by popular regional rockers Stevie Ray Vaughan and ZZ Top, among 
others.[12][13][14] Tejano is perhaps the most misunderstood of popular 
Houston musical styles because it is often classified as a style of Latin 
music, although the word "tejano" means Texan, reflecting the genre's roots 
in southern and central Texas during the 19th century. Modern Tejano music 
is usually a fusion style, combining the common historical elements of 
conjunto styles based around the accordion and bajo sexto with popular 
American styles --- most often country, R&B or rock. Within tejano music, 
Houston forged a distinctively modern sound that began with pop and rock 
fusions using electronic keyboards and synthesizers. The style was popularized 
in the 1980s and 1990s by the Grammy-award winning Houston tejano band 
La Mafia, but which was thrust into a national and international spotlight 
by young female performer Selena. Selena's younger brother, A.B. Quintanilla, 
through his band Kumbia Kings would further push the Houston style of tejano 
even further by fusing it with hip-hop to create songs that appealed to 
a younger, more urban audience.[15][16] Ben Westhoff, author of Dirty South: 
Outkast, Lil Wayne, Soulja Boy, and the Southern Rappers who Reinvented 
Hip-Hop, said that Houston is geographically isolated from other cities 
that have rap music traditions, so Houston rap music has its own slang 
and sound which does not "translate" in other regions. Many DJs like to 
severely slow down music and repeat lines several times, a style known 
as "screwed and chopped." The originator of "Screwed and Chopped" style 
music was the late Dj Screw. Screw began making this type of music while 
under the influence of promethazine with codeine cough syrup, the drinking 
of which is now heavily popularuzed in hip-hop culture. Westhoff says that 
the style, which slurs the speeches of the rappers, gives the music an 
"extraterrestrial quality."[17] Bounce music also became popular in Houston 
in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.[18] The Ladies Reading Group of 
Houston was a significant founder of the public library system in Houston. 
Elizabeth Long, the author of the 2003 book Book Clubs: Women and the Uses 
of Reading in Everyday Life, wrote that Houston's "literary scene" contributes 
and draws upon the overall literary culture of Texas.[19] The University 
of Houston creative writing program opened in 1979. Long wrote that this 
program "has achieved a national reputation" in subsequent decades.[19] 
In 1985 the Ladies Reading Club had a 100th anniversary celebration.[19] 
By 2005 USA Today referred to Houston as "the dining-out capital of the 
nation." Houstonians ate out at restaurants more often than residents of 
other American cities, and Houston restaurants have the second lowest average 
prices of restaurants of major cities.[20] Tex-Mex cuisine is very popular 
in Houston. Many Mexican cuisine restaurants in Houston have aspects that 
originate from Texas culture.[21] As of 2014[update] the Houston area has 
relatively fewer national chain restaurants compared to other U.S. metropolitan 
areas due to the number of established local restaurant operations. Famous 
restaurateurs include Jim Goode and Ninfa Laurenzo as well as the families 
of Molina's, Pappas Restaurants, Carrabbas, and the Mandola's restaurants.[22] 
Members of the oil and gas industry are representatives of most of the 
boards of Houston's arts bodies, charities, and museums. The energy companies 
spent funds in order to make Houston a more attractive community for their 
employees to live in.[23] Houston includes Christian, Jewish, Muslim, Hindu, 
Buddhist, Zoroastrian, and other religious groups. See also: List of companies 
