Cumberland Willis "Cum" Posey, Jr. (June 20, 1890 – March 28, 1946) was 
an American baseball player, manager, and team owner in the Negro leagues, 
as well as a star professional basketball player and team owner. Cumberland 
Jr. was born into Western Pennsylvania's Negro elite, the son of Cumberland 
Willis Posey Sr. and Angelina "Anna" Stevens Posey of Homestead, adjacent 
to Pittsburgh. Posey senior worked on riverboats and became in 1877 probably 
the first African American licensed engineer in the United States, then 
earned the chief engineer license and title Captain. "Cap" Posey was a 
riverboat builder, general manager of the Dexter Coal Company, owner of 
the Diamond Coke and Coal Company, and industrial partner of Henry Clay 
Frick. He was president of the Loendi Social and Literary Club for three 
years and president of the Pittsburgh Courier newspaper for its first fourteen 
years, to 1924.(Williams) The family lived in a palatial Italianate mansion 
on the heights. Despite his commanding wealth Captain Posey still had to 
deal with racial discrimination, according to historian William Serrin. 
In that crucible of race his son began to excel as a young athlete. In 
football, Cumberland Jr. was a star player and manager for semi-pro sandlot 
teams in the Pittsburgh area prior to 1910, including the Delaney Rifles 
and the Collins Tigers. Posey was the best African American basketball 
player of his time, playing from the early 1900s (decade) through the mid-1920s. 
His peers and the sporting press considered him an "All-Time Immortal". 
"The mystic wand of Posey ruled basketball with as much eclat as 'Rasputin' 
dominated the Queen of all the Russias", observed the Harlem Interstate 
Tattler in 1929. Posey led Homestead High to the 1908 city championship, 
played basketball at Penn State for two years, moved to the University 
of Pittsburgh where he earned a pharmacy degree in 1915,[1] and formed 
the famous Monticello Athletic Association team that won the Colored Basketball 
World’s Championship in 1912. He later played varsity basketball for Duquesne 
University, under the name "Charles Cumbert", and led the Dukes in scoring 
for three seasons through 1919. Today he is enshrined in the Duquesne Sports 
Hall of Fame under his real name. During the mid-1910s, Posey formed, operated, 
and played for the Loendi Big Five, which became the most dominant basketball 
team of the Black Fives Era through the mid-1920s, winning four straight 
Colored Basketball World Championship titles. He retired from basketball 
in the late 1920s to focus exclusively on the business of baseball and 
on his weekly sports column in the Pittsburgh Courier, "In The Sportive 
Realm." He was elected to the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame 
in 2016.[2] In baseball, Posey played with the Homestead Grays in 1911, 
was manager by 1916, and became owner in the early 1920s. In a quarter-century 
running the team, he built it into one of the powerhouse franchises of 
black baseball, winning numerous pennants, including nine consecutively 
from 1937-45. In 1910, a group of Homestead steelworkers was organized 
into one of baseball’s greatest clubs by Posey. This team, the Homestead 
Grays, played many locations such as Forbes Field and Griffith Stadium 
in Washington, D.C. The team won eight out of nine Negro National League 
titles. Posey, the principal owner of the Homestead Grays, spent 35 years 
(1911–1946) in baseball as a player, manager, owner and club official. 
He built a strong barnstorming circuit that made the Grays a perennially 
powerful and profitable team, one of the best in the East. Posey began 
playing baseball for the semi-pro Grays in 1911. He soon ended his playing 
career to become field and business manager. He took control of the Grays 
in 1920 and turned them into a highly successful regional enterprise as 
an independent team. The Grays' strong identity in Pennsylvania and surrounding 
states enabled them to survive the depths of the Great Depression. Posey, 
an aggressive talent seeker with the Grays, at one time or another had 
over a dozen current Negro leagues Hall of Famers playing for him. He was 
often accused of raiding other clubs' rosters, enticing their best players 
to join his team. He suffered a heavy dose of the same in the early 1930s, 
when he lost several stars to the well-financed Pittsburgh Crawfords. The 
Grays rebounded and became a member of the second Negro National League 
in 1935, soon dominating the circuit. Posey's teams reeled in nine consecutive 
pennants from 1937-1945. Posey unwisely attempted to start the East-West 
League in 1932, during the Depression, but it did not last the season. 
He later became an officer of the Negro National League, and was a major 
force at its meetings throughout the rest of his career. He also was a 
frequent critic of the league, both before and after joining it, in his 
regular sports columns for the Pittsburgh Courier, a leading black weekly 
newspaper. Courier sportswriter Wendell Smith once wrote of Posey: "Some 
may say he crushed the weak as well as the strong on the way to the top 
of the ladder. But no matter what his critics say, they cannot deny that 
he was the smartest man in Negro baseball and certainly the most successful." 
He was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 2006. He died of cancer 
at age 55 in Pittsburgh. His hometown of Homestead declared a school holiday 
