Cumulus Media, Inc. (and its subsidiaries, Cumulus Broadcasting LLC, Cumulus 
Licensing LLC and Broadcast Software International Inc[3] ) is an American 
broadcasting company and is the second largest owner and operator of AM 
and FM radio stations in the United States (behind iHeartMedia, Inc., formerly 
Clear Channel Communications). Cumulus owned 570 stations in 150 markets 
as of September 16, 2011.[4] The company also owns Westwood One. Cumulus's 
headquarters are located in Atlanta, Georgia. Cumulus' original business 
plan focused exclusively on owning radio stations located in medium-sized 
media markets,[5] and Cumulus Media only owns terrestrial radio stations 
in the United States; rival iHeartMedia, Inc. owns radio stations outside 
the United States and operates a subsidiary, Clear Channel Outdoor.[6] 
The company was started in August 1998 by radio consultant Lewis Dickey 
Jr. and media and technology entrepreneur Richard Weening. The Telecommunications 
Act of 1996, among other things removed restrictions on the number of radio 
stations a single owner could control in a market and overall. Dickey, 
then a nationally known radio programming consultant, was acting as a consultant 
to a small radio group in which Weening had a personal investment. Dickey 
and Weening joined forces around Dickey's idea to acquire and operate radio 
stations in mid-size markets where giant Clear Channel was not focusing. 
Dickey was the radio expert and Weening was the corporate finance and start-up 
CEO. Dickey was President of Stratford Research his radio consulting firm 
[7] and also president of his family company, Midwestern Broadcasting with 
two stations in Toledo, Ohio which would later be acquired by Cumulus. 
Weening had successful experience as a start-up CEO in book and magazine 
publishing, online services and enterprise software systems. He was then 
CEO of QUAESTUS & Co., Inc., private equity firm specializing in media 
and technology start-ups. A student of classics, Weening came up with the 
name Cumulus [8] which means "accumulation" in Latin and best described 
Dickey and Weening's plan to acquire stations in 50 or more markets. QUAESTUS 
provided the seed capital to make the first station acquisitions as a model 
for the Cumulus strategy.[9] The next significant milestone was a $50 million 
investment from closely watched and highly respected State of Wisconsin 
Investment Board (SWIB) [[[10]]] previously an investor in Weening's magazine 
publishing company. Full scale operations started on May 22, 1997. Weening 
assumed the role of Executive Chairman focusing on acquisitions deal structuring, 
corporate finance and internet from headquarters in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 
Dickey selected stations to buy and oversaw radio programming, operations 
and strategy as Executive Vice Chairman. Dickey brought in highly regarded 
radio operator William Bungeroth to serve as President of Cumulus broadcasting 
from new offices in Chicago's Hancock Center. Bungeroth had a reputation 
as an advertising sales leader. He would oversee market level tactical 
execution including the integration of newly acquired stations into market 
operating units. John Dickey, Lew's brother and himself an experienced 
programming consultant would oversee station content.[11][12] SWIB's investment 
was soon followed by another $50 million from Wisconsin-based Northwestern 
Mutual Life Insurance Company and $25 million from NationsBank Capital 
Corporation. Financial backing secured, Dickey and Weening set out to acquire 
radio stations working hard to stay as much "under the radar" as possible 
not wishing to attract notice or competition. In the first 12 months Cumulus 
acquired over 100 stations in 31 markets.[9] Almost as soon as the acquisition 
spree started it was clear the Company would require more than a billion 
dollars for acquisitions in its sights and plans were laid for a public 
offering. The Cumulus strategy as articulated in public filings was to 
acquire multiple stations in a city or market, consolidate them physically 
to share a common infrastructure to reduce operating expenses but enrich 
programming giving each stations a unique music format, live programming, 
brand and target audience. The central idea was to create a cluster of 
radio stations that could compete with newspapers by offering advertisers 
a range of target demographic choices comparable to the range of content 
sections in print. At the time, newspaper display and classified advertising 
claimed the largest share of local advertising dollars. By offering a range 
of audiences like newspapers. Cumulus could gain more share of the local 
advertising dollar than the individual stations could garner on their own. 
In addition, acquiring the top performer stations in the market as part 
of the operating cluster would get more national advertising. The market 
focus would be those deemed to offer substantial growth opportunities and 
the station focus was leader station in the market and stations well position 
for significant growth [13] Cumulus became a public company on June 26, 
1998 raising $400 million selling 7.6 million common shares at $14.00, 
$125 million in Preferred Stock and $160 million in Senior Subordinated 
Bonds. At that time Cumulus owned or was committed to buy 176 stations 
- 124 FM and 52 AM in 34 US markets.[14] In its first 17 months, Cumulus 
acquired 207 stations, creating the first mid size radio conglomerate.[14] 
Following the company's IPO, its stock fell from $14 to $8 on October 2, 
1998 then began a climb to close 1999 at $50.75 Some radio executives familiar 
with small markets thought that Cumulus was overpaying to buy top stations 
in markets that did not have a great upside potential. For 1998 Cumulus 
reported revenue of $98.8 million, with broadcast cash flow of $26.6 million. 
Its cash-flow margin reached 27 percent. For 1999 Cumulus reported $180 
million in revenue and $46.7 million broadcast cash flow. In November 19 
the Company sold an additional 10 million shares at $24.93 raising $250 
million.[13] Acquisitions continued at an accelerating pace. At this point 
the Company owned or operated pending closing 246 stations in 45 US markets. 
In 2 years and 6 months the Company became the 2nd largest US broadcasting 
group in terms of stations operated. In this period, the Company raised 
a staggering $1.3 billion considering sales of common and preferred stock 
shares, senior bank lines of credit and senior subordinated debt or junk 
bonds which when issued were rated CCC+. The stock market acknowledged 
the remarkable growth with a remarkable share price that levitated to a 
high of $51.00 at December 31, 1999. There was no .com in the Cumulus name 
but it was a part-time participant in the euphoria of the dot-com bubble 
and impacted by the hysteria that followed its burst. The reasons included 
very rapid growth and skyrocketing share price which in the euphoria period 
fed on itself. The hysteria which followed was driven by the absence of 
earnings and rumours which suggested the rapid growth might be a fiction. 
Here is what happened between January 10 and March 31. A perfect storm 
of events drove the Company's share price from $50 to $13 between January 
1 and March 17 when over 30 million shares traded hands. Driving the decline 
was persistent rumours of possible accounting irregularities in the rapidly 
assembled radio group. On January 14 respected Wall Street analyst Frank 
Bodenchak advised institutional clients that Cumulus may miss his estimates 
for Q4 1999 and the year. A combination of the possible earnings miss and 
the rumours of accounting problems created a significant loss of investor 
confidence. On March 17, Cumulus reported a loss of $0.20 per share vs 
$0.15 per share expectation.[15] Broadcast cash flow was $12.3 million 
vs estimates around $17 million. In addition the Company reported that 
company CFO Rick Bonick had left earlier in January. It was not officially 
announced a fact that CNN Money says "roiled the already active rumour 
mill about accounting irregularities. The Company also reported it would 
restate quarterly revenues in 1999 as some markets did not comply with 
Cumulus' revenue recognition policies and booked some advertising contracts 
for their full value rather than recognizing revenue as the ads aired. 
As a result, class-action lawsuits were filed against Cumulus charging 
the company with artificially inflating revenue and profit in 1999. PricewaterhouseCoopers, 
the company's auditors resigned in April citing material weaknesses in 
the Cumulus' financial controls[16] arising from the possible revenue restatements. 
Meanwhile, Dickey had taken over day-to-day station operations from Bungeroth 
who resigned in mid January. During this same period Weening got into a 
dispute with the SEC over his proposal to reverse some of his and Dickey's 
1999 compensation to help offset the earnings miss. While the proposal 
was never implemented, the SEC maintained it would have amounted to earnings 
management and was therefore an infraction. Weening finally agreed to pay 
a fine of $75,000 without conceding wrongdoing to settle the matter in 
2003. As the dust began to settle in April 2000 the company issued revised 
annual 10K reports for 1998 and 1999 that showed minor variations in quarterly 
revenue and adjusted net loss for 1999 from $20.8 million to $13.6 million 
and net loss for 1998 was restated from $13.7 million to $8 million, after 
the company found a $4.9 million tax benefit that had been under-reported. 
The restatement as it turns out had no material impact on the financials 
but in the context of the dot-com bust hysteria rumours of accounting irregularities 
drove a significant decrease in share price which threatened the Company's 
ability to finance pending acquisitions. Read more: http://www.referenceforbusiness.com/history2/70/Cumulus-Media-Inc.html#ixzz3sqfEPlpx 
Since November 1998 the Company had been developing an internet platform 
for classified employment advertising. The new system would operate in 
tandem with the radio station cluster in each market and offer employers 
the chance to post available positions on the web and promote their company 
and the position on the radio stations. At the time of the dot-com bust 
the system was in beta test in two markets. One of the short-lived but 
important impacts of the dot-com bubble burst was a loss of confidence 
that the promise of the internet would ever happen. Many professional radio 
people like Dickey were skeptical and believed the best course for Cumulus 
was too focus on the radio strategy and drop the internet projects.[17] 
Weening who had started a Silicon Valley e-commerce software company in 
the early 90's had conceived and was overseeing development of the employment 
platform.[18] Weening advocated for continuance of the project as a key 
potential source of revenue with a service that would be unique among radio 
companies. Ultimately, the board backed Dickey not Weening and the Internet 
project was scrapped. According interviews with two former members of the 
Cumulus board, Lew Dickey and his brother John convinced the board to let 
them run the Company. Dickey, whose family had just sold an Atlanta station 
for a reported $250 million, offered to invest in Cumulus if needed to 
close pending acquisitions. The board was concerned about the restatement 
of revenues and the shareholder lawsuits. This is consistent with reports 
in a radio industry newsletter [19] which reported that it was a widely 
held belief in the Radio industry was that the Dickey brothers orchestrated 
events that lead to the board's decision not to back the Internet project, 
placing Dickey at the helm of Cumulus, moving the Cumulus headquarters 
from Milwaukee to Atlanta and to Weening's ultimate resignaton as an employee 
and director in January 2001.[20][21] According to public filings Weening, 
QUAESTUS management company and other Weening related interests sold their 
interests in Cumulus a year later in May 2002 at prices ranging from $17 
to $21.50 per share not The $55 high but considerably higher than share 
prices after their sale. The new CEO of Cumulus Media, as of September 
2015 is Mary Berner. In April 2016, Talk Radio Network filed a lawsuit 
against Cumulus Media and associated defendants, alleging "antitrust violations, 
unfair competition, breach of contract and breach of fiduciary duty, among 
other claims", similar to a lawsuit launched in 2012 and dropped in 2014 
by the same plaintiff.[22] In June 2016, Cumulus Media and Westwood One 
moved to have the new suit dismissed.[22] In June 2016, Cumulus Media announced 
the resignation of its Executive Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial 
Officer, Joseph P. Hannan, to "pursue other interests" after six years 
with the company, to be replaced by John F. Abbot.[23] Lew Dickey took 
full charge. By May 2002 the share price recovered to above the IPO price 
to a short-lived high of $22 on May 31, 2002. Dickey garnered some strong 
partners in the form of Bain Capital and Crestview partners who helped 
finance a series of ambitious acquisitions and partnerships which were 
creative, made Cumulus a significantly larger company but these acquisitions 
and Cumulus itself have struggled in the face of slow to no radio ad growth. 
(another researcher is working on this section) In 2006, Cumulus acquired 
control of Susquehanna Radio, with the backing of 3 venture capital firms 
(Bain Capital Partners LLC, The Blackstone Group and Thomas H. Lee Partners, 
L.P.) for a price of $1.2 Billion. The 33 Susquehanna stations were privately 
held in a separate partnership called Cumulus Media Partners, LLC (commonly 
referred to as CMP on the company's quarterly earnings calls) that was 
the subject of an equity-for-debt swap in May 2009 in an attempt to avoid 
defaulting on the terms of the CMP lending agreement. While Cumulus operated 
the CMP stations, they initially held only a minor ownership interest in 
them.[24] On January 31, 2011, Cumulus announced a deal to acquire the 
remaining ownership of CMP from its equity partners in a stock transaction 
valued at approximately $740 million that is closed in August 2011.[25] 
As a result of the CMP acquisition, Cumulus now owns a limited-partnership 
interest in San Francisco Baseball Associates LP, the owner of the San 
Francisco Giants baseball club.[26] In July 2010, Cumulus publicly announced 
formation of a similar venture with Crestview Partners to acquire up to 
$1 billion of additional radio assets.[27] In July 2007, the company announced 
its intention to "go private",[28] however on May 11, 2008, the company 
announced it was unable to come to terms with the parties involved and 
the merger/acquisition agreement was terminated.[29] Like most major American 
radio station owners, Cumulus has been forced to write down the value of 
its radio station licenses, resulting in large non-cash losses - $498.9 
million in 2008, $230.6 million in 2007, and $63.4 million in 2006. The 
company's stock, priced over $56 in 1999,[30] then over $22 in 2004, was 
as low as $0.45 per share toward the end of 2008.[31][32] Starting in June 
2010, Cumulus made multiple unsuccessful offers to buy out Citadel Broadcasting 
after its emergence from bankruptcy.[33] In February 2011, Cumulus was 
again said to be in "exclusive negotiations" to acquire Citadel for $2.5 
billion paid to Citadel shareholders, according to CNBC. Some Citadel shareholders 
were said to have been pushing the board to consider a sale.[34] On March 
10, 2011, Citadel Broadcasting stations announced via email that Cumulus 
had purchased Citadel Broadcasting. Citadel was made up of 225 radio stations 
in over 50 markets, as well as Citadel Media, one of the largest radio 
networks in the United States. The deal was finalized on September 16, 
2011, after acceptance by the FCC and Citadel's shareholders.[4] As part 
of the deal, Cumulus Media will have to place 14 stations into a separate 
trust to comply with ownership limits.[35] Following the acquisition, in 
an effort to focus on larger markets, Cumulus reached a deal with Townsquare 
Media to swap 65 radio stations in 13 markets, with the majority of the 
65 stations being sold to Townsquare.[36] On August 29, 2013, it was reported 
by The Wall Street Journal that Cumulus would purchase the syndicator Dial 
Global for $260 million. To fund the sale, Cumulus, sold 53 more stations 
to Townsquare Media for $238 million, in markets such as Danbury, CT, Rockford, 
IL, Cedar Rapids, IA, Quad Cities IA/IL, Waterloo, IA, Portland, ME, Battle 
Creek, MI, Kalamazoo, MI, Lansing, MI, Faribault, MN, Rochester, MN, and 
Portsmouth, NH. Additionally, Townsquare Media acquired Peak Broadcasting, 
and Cumulus swapped 15 more stations in Dubuque, IA and Poughkeepsie, NY 
in exchange for Peak Broadcasting’s Fresno cluster.[37][38] The sale to 
Cumulus was completed on November 14, 2013.[39] On January 11, 2013, after 
acquiring the station from Family Radio, Cumulus re-launched WFME in New 
York City as a country music station under its new Nash FM brand. Nash 
was designed to serve as an umbrella brand for all country music-related 
content across the company's properties, including radio, digital, and 
live events such as the "Nash Bash". All country stations owned by Cumulus 
would either be branded as Nash FM, or be strongly cross-promoted as part 
of the Nash family of properties.[40][41] In July 2014, Cumulus announced 
that it would end its partnership with ABC News Radio, and enter into a 
new partnership with CNN to syndicate news content for its stations through 
Westwood One beginning in 2015. The network will provide its content on 
a white label basis, allowing individual stations to use their own brands 
for the content. In turn, ABC announced that it would take the syndication 
of its radio content in-house, with distribution handled by Skyview Networks.[42][43] 
On September 15, 2013, Cumulus announced that it had entered into a partnership 
with music streaming service Rdio; Cumulus took a stake in Rdio, and provided 
the company with access to its advertising sales team for a freemium tier, 
the ability to offer Cumulus radio stations on the Rdio service, and $75 
million in marketing on Cumulus stations over five years. The stations 
launched on Rdio in August 2015; prior to the deal, Cumulus had partnered 
with the competing iHeartRadio service.[44][45] On December 30, 2008, Cumulus 
Media was issued a $14,000 Notice of Apparent Liability by the Federal 
Communications Commission related to the stations in the Macon, Georgia, 
cluster. The FCC says Cumulus failed to comply with its record-keeping 
requirements and its Equal Employment Opportunity rules on information 
on recruitment sources. Cumulus, along with two other companies, had 30 
days to pay or file a statement asking for reduction or cancellation of 
the forfeitures.[46] On March 17, 2000, the company was forced to restate 
revenue and broadcast cash flow for three quarters of 1999 after discovering 
that some of its sales force had prematurely booked revenue to meet sales 
goals.[47] On November 8, 2005, Company decided to amend and restate its 
