Between 1873 and 1945, Saranac Lake, New York became a world-renowned center 
for the treatment of tuberculosis, using a treatment that involved exposing 
patients to as much fresh air as possible under conditions of complete 
bed-rest. In the process, a specific building type, the "Cure Cottage", 
developed, built by local residents seeking to capitalize on the town's 
fame, by physicians, and often by the patients themselves. Many of these 
structures are extant, and their historic value has been recognized by 
listing on National Register of Historic Places.[2] Dr. Edward Livingston 
Trudeau (1848–1915), as a young man, watched his elder brother die of tuberculosis 
over a period of three months– at the time, the disease was incurable. 
He subsequently trained as a doctor, and, three years after completing 
his studies, was himself diagnosed with tuberculosis. Conventional thinking 
of the time called for a change of climate, and he went to live in the 
Adirondack Mountains, initially at Paul Smith's Hotel, spending as much 
time as possible in the open, and he subsequently regained his health. 
In 1876 he moved to Saranac Lake and established a medical practice among 
the sportsmen, guides and lumber camps of the region. In 1882, Trudeau 
read about Prussian Dr. Hermann Brehmer's success treating tuberculosis 
with the "rest cure" in cold, clear mountain air. Following this example, 
Trudeau founded the Adirondack Cottage Sanitarium in February, 1885. The 
first patients were two sisters who had been factory workers in New York 
City. They were treated in a one-room cottage named "Little Red", built 
for $350 on land donated by the guides and residents of the village. As 
the sanitorium grew, it would be supported at first by wealthy sportsmen 
that Trudeau had met at Paul Smith's, several of whom had built great camps 
on the nearby St. Regis Lakes.[2] The requirement for fresh air lead Trudeau 
to avoid large institutional settings, feeling that a cottage-like structure 
would maximize the patient's exposure to light and air, and avoid the sanitation 
difficulties of a large institutional setting. Consequently, as the town's 
increasing fame drew more and more invalids, "cure cottages" began to spring 
up throughout the town. Many were created by simply adding glassed-in porches 
to existing houses. Others were built as cure cottages and/or apartment 
buildings, but all had "cure porches" with sliding glass windows, in which 
patients spent at least eight hours a day resting on special day beds or 
reclining chairs. In 1887, when Robert Louis Stevenson came to Saranac 
Lake for treatment of what was then thought to be tuberculosis and stayed 
at what is now known as Stevenson Cottage, the town's fame grew substantially, 
and the arrival of the railroads, the New York Central and the Delaware 
and Hudson, in the village greatly eased access to the area. The discovery 
that tuberculosis was contagious further contributed to Saranac Lake's 
importance as a cure center, as many other venues in the Adirondacks began 
to turn "consumptives" away. As a result, the village grew rapidly, from 
533 in 1880 to 1582 in 1890 to a peak of more than 6,000 by 1920. Many 
who came to take the cure brought talents that were put to good use in 
the small town. William L. Coulter, for example, was an architect who found 
work designing cottages for wealthy clients, often to be used as cure cottages. 
He designed a house at 147 Park Avenue for Thomas Bailey Aldrich editor 
of the Atlantic Monthly in 1903 that wits dubbed "The Porcupine" because 
it had so many fine points. He also designed Camp Eagle Island and Prospect 
Point Camp, two Great Camps on Upper Saranac Lake. A number of different 
types of institutions developed: boarding houses and cottages, for relatively 
ambulatory patients; cottages that didn't provide board, in which case 
meals would be provided by a nearby boarding cottage; "nursing cottages" 
for patients too weak to get around. In time, cottages came to specialize 
in distinct populations: there were cottages for Greeks, for Cubans, for 
blacks, and kosher boarding cottages for Jews. Some were organized by occupation: 
there were cottages that catered to circus people, for telephone workers, 
for the employees of the DuPont company, and for Endicott Johnson Shoes. 
The National Vaudeville Artists built the National Vaudeville Artists Hospital, 
which later became the Will Rogers Memorial Hospital, now a senior independent 
living community, Saranac Village at Will Rogers. For those who could afford 
it, the best situation for a patient was to be able to live with one's 
own family. For these, a number of possibilities existed, ranging from 
a small cottage that could house the entire family, to large and luxurious 
houses built to accommodate the family and whatever patients might be part 
of it. One of the latter type was built for a Swiss baron for his invalid 
daughter, another by the founder of Stanley Tools. Those of lesser means 
frequently brought family members who earned a living by working in other 
sanatoria, or creating their own cure settings in rented accommodations. 
World War I caused another major increase in patients— the stress of war 
and the damage caused by mustard gas provided fertile ground for the tuberculosis 
bacillus. By 1921 there were 650 veterans living in Saranac Lake; later, 
the Veterans Administration opened Sunmount Veterans Hospital in nearby 
Tupper Lake. When Norway was overrun by the Nazis early in World War II, 
many Norwegian merchant seamen who were at sea at the time chose to come 
to the United States; some of those were found to have tuberculosis, and 
perhaps as many as 500 came to live in Saranac Lake. They nearly all left 
after the war, but 16 had died, and are buried in a special section of 
Pine Ridge Cemetery; their graves are tended by prisoners at nearby Camp 
Gabriels, funded by an annual payment from the Norwegian government. In 
1944, an effective drug, streptomycin, was developed, and by the mid-1950s, 
sanatorium treatment of tuberculosis was nearly entirely supplanted by 
drug treatment, although the New York state-operated tuberculosis sanatorium 
in nearby Ray Brook (started in 1904) was not closed until the mid-1960s. 
Many of the cure cottages were converted into apartment houses, and some 
were torn down; some have been lovingly restored, and some badly renovated. 
Sixty-four of the hundreds of cure cottages still extant in Saranac Lake 
