This article gives general information/overview about each of the 30 current 
Major League Baseball franchises, including geographic locations, divisional 
alignment/league affiliations, schedule length/format, game times, and 
team colors. In all, there are 30 teams in the two leagues: 15 in the older 
National League ("NL") and 15 in the American League ("AL"). Each has its 
teams split into three divisions grouped generally by geography. They are 
(number of teams in each division in parenthesis): NL East (5), NL Central 
(5), NL West (5), AL East (5), AL Central (5), and AL West (5). From 1998 
to 2012, there were 16 teams in the National League, and 14 teams in the 
American League. This changed in the 2013 season when the Houston Astros 
were moved to the AL West, placing 5 teams in each division and 15 teams 
in both leagues.[1] The teams are hosted by 17 American states, 1 Canadian 
province (Ontario), and the District of Columbia. Each team's regular season 
consists of 162 games, a duration established in 1961 in the American League 
and 1962 in the National League. From 1904 into the early 1960s, except 
for 1919, a 154-game schedule was played in both leagues (in which each 
team played its seven opponents 22 times apiece). Expansion from eight 
to ten teams in each league in the early 1960s resulted in a revised schedule 
of 162 games (in which each team played its nine opponents 18 times) in 
their expansion years, for the American League in 1961 and the National 
League in 1962. Although the schedule remains at 162 games to this day, 
the layout of games played was changed when Divisional play began in 1969, 
so that teams played more games against opponents within their own division 
than against the other divisions or (beginning in 1997) the other league. 
Unplanned shortened seasons were played in 1918 due to the United States 
entering World War I, and in 1972, 1981, 1994, and 1995 due to player strikes 
and lockouts. A 140-game schedule (with each team playing its seven opponents 
20 times) was used in 1919, due to the influenza outbreak, and the schedule 
before 1904 varied from year to year. For a detailed history of the length 
of the regular season, see Major League Baseball schedule. The Major League 
regular season schedule generally runs from the first Sunday in April to 
the last Sunday in September or the first Sunday in October. Each team 
is scheduled to play 162 games during the season. Games are scheduled every 
day (except as noted in the next paragraph), although not all teams play 
every day; by rule, each team has a scheduled day off at least once every 
two weeks (though it usually occurs about once a week). Players and teams 
prepare for the season in spring training, in Florida or Arizona, during 
February and March. Four rounds of playoffs follow the regular season, 
culminating in the World Series in late October. The Major League postseason 
consist of multiple game series that are split between the two teams' home 
fields; predetermined sites are not used as they are in some other professional 
sports championships. An annual "All-Star Game" is conducted halfway through 
the season, at a pre-determined site, with all teams enjoying a three-day 
break. National League players make up one team, while American League 
players form the other. Eight players from each league (one for each field 
position other than pitcher) are selected by fan vote, while the remainder 
are selected by the selected managers of the two League teams (which are 
the managers of the previous year's World Series teams). Games are played 
predominantly against teams within each league through an unbalanced schedule 
that heavily favors intra-divisional play. In 1997, Major League Baseball 
introduced interleague play, in which American and National League teams 
play against one another. This break from tradition (previously, the two 
leagues played completely separate schedules except for the All-Star Game 
and World Series) was criticized by the sport's purists but has since proven 
very lucrative to the franchises.[citation needed] The interleague games 
were confined to the months of May and June. Beginning in 2013, interleague 
play will occur throughout the season. Typically many intra-division games 
are scheduled toward the end of the season, anticipating the possibility 
of close divisional races and heightened fan interest. Generally, when 
two teams meet, they play a "series" of three games against each other, 
although they will occasionally play two- and four-game series as well. 
In the unbalanced schedule currently in use, most teams will travel to 
visit each other team in their division three times per season, each team 
in their league's other divisions once per season, and make three visits 
to teams from the opposite league, totaling 81 games. The remaining 81 
games are conducted at home, with other teams visiting on a similar schedule. 
When games must be rescheduled due to weather or other concerns, it is 
common for the game to be rescheduled as part of a "double-header", in 
which two games featuring the same two teams are played back-to-back on 
the same day. Most games begin at either 1:05 pm or 7:05 pm local time, 
although some teams prefer other times, and individual games may be scheduled 
at other times for a variety of reasons (often relating to being featured 
on nationwide television). When not over-ridden due to broadcast contracts, 
the game time is ultimately set by the home team. Most teams choose to 
play primarily at night for attendance purposes, though they will often 
play in the afternoon on Sundays and "Get-Away Days" (days where one or 
both teams must travel to another city following the game). However, the 
Chicago Cubs, by agreement with the City of Chicago, are required to play 
almost two-thirds of their home games during the day. (The Cubs' stadium, 
Wrigley Field, was also the last stadium to operate without lights, which 
were installed in 1988. Prior to the 1988 season, all Cubs home games were 
played in daylight.) Each year in June, Major League Baseball conducts 
a draft for first-year players who have never signed a Major or Minor League 
contract. These players are generally American high school graduates or 
college students, although players from a limited number of foreign countries 
may also be drafted. Notably, players from Japan may not be drafted, it 
being regarded as the exclusive right of the Japanese leagues to do so. 
After being drafted, players are assigned to minor league teams who are 
affiliated with the major league team. The minor leagues are organized 
into several levels, and players normally work their way up over a period 
of three or more seasons (based on skill and performance) before appearing 
in the Major Leagues. In American professional sports (and usually amateur 
sports as well), a generally standardized and marketing-oriented structure 
has evolved for the names and colors, and thus the identities of individual 
clubs. The structure involves three elements: a geographical designator, 
traditionally the name of the team's city, although in recent decades the 
team's state or region has sometimes been used; a nickname, usually connected 
with either a mascot, the team's colors, or a feature unique to the region 
or to the club; and team colors, a carryover from heraldry. This approach 
contrasts with some non-American sports, such as European soccer, in which 
team names need not necessarily follow a particular pattern, or Asian professional 
baseball, which generally follows a "corporate sponsor" name followed by 
a "nickname". The pattern began with early organized baseball clubs and 
has been extended from there to almost all U.S. professional clubs. Originally, 
gentlemen's athletic clubs were key movers in the development of organized 
baseball, so early prominent teams were simply named after the clubs that 
formed them: Athletic Club, Centennial Club, Mutual Club, Olympic Club, 
Potomac Club, National Club, Forest City Club, Kekionga Club, Atlantic 
Club, Eckford Club, Excelsior Club, Western Club, Elm City Club, Resolute 
Club, Maryland Club, Mansfield Club. By 1871, with the formation of the 
National Association, clubs no longer just competed with local rivals, 
but with the best clubs from other cities around the northeast. Thus, geographic 
designators were sometimes added, establishing the now familiar pattern 
(only reversed): Athletic of Philadelphia, Centennial of Philadelphia, 
Mutual of New York, Olympic of Washington, Potomac of Washington, National 
of Washington, Forest City of Cleveland, Forest City of Rockford, Kekionga 
of Fort Wayne, Atlantic of Brooklyn, Eckford of Brooklyn, Excelsior of 
Brooklyn, Western of Keokuk, Elm City of New Haven, Resolute of Elizabeth 
City, Maryland of Baltimore, Mansfield of Middletown. Informally, the club 
names were extended collectively to the players on the teams: Athletics, 
Centennials, Mutuals, etc., and the same was done with geographic designators: 
Philadelphias, New Yorks, Washingtons, etc. The Cincinnati Red Stockings 
started a new trend in baseball club names. The team was named after the 
color of its socks. Because of a combination of factors—including cost 
and quality of fabric dyes and perception of toxicity—very little color 
was used on early baseball uniforms. The one piece of the uniform that 
was commonly colored was the stirrup stocking, which was worn over a white 
sock (known as a "sanitary"), which prevented direct contact between the 
wearer's skin and the dyed stocking. The Red Stockings, which became a 
national sensation with their successful barnstorming in 1869 and 1870, 
popularized the naming of the team after its one most distinguishing uniform 
feature, the color of its socks. By 1876, when the National League entered 
play, baseball clubs were no longer primarily associated with gentlemen's 
athletic clubs, and most of the original teams were popularly named after 
the one uniform feature that served to distinguish them on the field—the 
color of their stockings. Thus: Boston Red Stockings, Chicago White Stockings, 
Cincinnati Red Stockings, Hartford Dark Blues, Louisville Grays, St. Louis 
Brown Stockings. The 1876 New York and Philadelphia clubs still held over 
the traditional "Mutual" and "Athletic" names, and were usually so referenced 
in the standings. The plural usage seen sometimes, "Mutuals" or "Athletics", 
was equivalent to the "Chicagos" or the "Bostons". Modern historians have 
often retrofitted these names in the modern style, such as "New York Mutuals", 
which is historically inaccurate. "Mutual" was the actual name of the team, 
and the club had separate "nicknames" that referred to the team colors 
in a given year, such as "Green Stockings". The Athletics name did persist, 
however, and the Philadelphia American League team would retain this name 
even through two relocations. Throughout this period, club nicknames were 
ad hoc, bestowed and used at will by sportswriters and fans, for example, 
the Lord Baltimore Club could be called the "Baltimores", the "Canaries", 
or the "Yellow Stockings." Nicknames became associated with particular 
cities, and fans tended to refer to the local team by this name, even if 
it was not associated in a corporate fashion with its predecessor. Thus, 
multiple, unassociated teams used names such as Boston Red Stockings, Chicago 
White Stockings, Cincinnati Red Stockings, St. Louis Brown Stockings, Louisville 
Grays, Baltimore Orioles, Milwaukee Brewers, and the like. Early in the 
20th century, the club nickname began to acquire a more important status, 
eventually an official status, being designated by the club ownership and 
ultimately used as part of the club's marketing efforts. Sometimes a club 
would change its nickname or adopt an official name that superseded one 
or more unofficial names in the past. An example would be the Boston Braves, 
who were tagged with various nicknames prior to officially adopting "Braves" 
as their name and mascot. Sometimes such a name change did not catch on 
with the press and public, which is why there is no longer a "Philadelphia 
Blue Jays" nor a "Boston Bees". The original Washington Senators were officially 
the "Washington Nationals" for many decades, but the alternate nickname 
"Senators" persisted, "Nationals" faded, and the team finally, officially 
became the "Senators" in the late 1950s. (With modern marketing strategies, 
such a fate is less likely to befall the current Washington Nationals.) 
In contrast, the Brooklyn Dodgers began by adopting the old "Atlantic" 
designation, then were dubbed the "Bridegrooms" for a while, then the "Trolley 
Dodgers", then the "Superbas", then the "Robins" (for their manager, Wilbert 
Robinson), although the alternate nickname "Dodgers" persisted from the 
moment the team acquired that tag. The Dodgers did not actually put that 
name on their uniforms until the 1930s. Sometimes teams have changed their 
nicknames for marketing or other reasons. For example, the Houston Colt 
45s became the Houston Astros in 1965 after moving into the new Astrodome. 
Team colors are sometimes tied in with a team's name, and occasionally 
they are changed for marketing reasons. One of the most striking examples 
of the latter was in 1963, when flamboyant owner Charles O. Finley changed 
the Kansas City Athletics' uniforms from a traditional white/gray with 
blue and red trim to bright yellow with green trim, a move that sparked 
controversy, but also one that fit in with the new medium of color television. 
Before this, home uniforms in MLB were uniformly white with colored trim, 
while road uniforms were uniformly gray; afterwards many teams displayed 
a variety of color schemes, notably the Houston Astros and San Diego Padres. 
The Chicago Cubs have occasionally worn a bright blue top on the road since 
1982, whereas the Chicago White Sox have changed colors many times during 
that interval, at one or another time wearing navy blue, red, royal blue, 
and white stockings. In recent years the team has sometimes worn black 
hosiery. The St. Louis Cardinals (baseball) once played in the same city 
as the St. Louis Cardinals (football, now the Arizona Cardinals), but the 
teams were not named for each other. The St. Louis Cardinals baseball club 
always played in St. Louis and were originally the St. Louis Brown Stockings 
(not to be confused with the St. Louis Browns in the American League), 
while the former St. Louis Cardinals football club (now the Arizona Cardinals), 
one of the oldest American football teams still in existence (along with 
the Chicago Bears), were first known as the Racine Normals, then Racine 
Cardinals, then the Chicago Cardinals. During their time in St. Louis, 
the football team was usually referred to by fans as "Big Red" or the "Gridbirds" 
