Curse of Coogan's Bluff is a superstition in baseball that allegedly kept 
the Giants' baseball franchise from winning the World Series following 
their move from New York to San Francisco. The curse began when upset Giants 
fans in New York placed a hex on the relocating franchise. The curse ended 
when the San Francisco Giants won the 2010 World Series in their fourth 
World Series appearance since the move to San Francisco. While the franchise 
was in New York, the Giants won five World Series titles, with the longest 
drought between titles being 21 years. The last title as the New York Giants 
came against the Cleveland Indians in the 1954 World Series, notably featuring 
the The Catch by Willie Mays. In the 1950s, Giants' owner Horace Stoneham 
began to consider moving the team to another city while needing a new stadium 
to replace crumbling Polo Grounds. San Francisco mayor George Christopher 
negotiated with Stoneham, approving the move to San Francisco starting 
with the 1958 season. Following the move, upset Giants' fans in New York 
allegedly placed a hex on the San Francisco Giants, representing they'll 
never win the World Series in San Francisco.[1] Many believed all of the 
team's good luck is in New York.[2] During the 50 years after placing the 
alleged Curse of Coogan's Bluff, the Giants made three World Series appearances 
and lost each time, two of which in 7-game Series. In 1962, in Game 3 of 
the playoff series that decides who plays in the World Series, the Giants 
overcame two-run deficit in the 9th inning against the rival Los Angeles 
Dodgers. In Game 7 of the 1962 World Series against the Yankees, down 1–0 
and runner on second and third, Willie McCovey hit a sharp line drive, 
but was caught by Yankees' second baseman Bobby Richardson to end the game 
and the series. In the 1989 World Series, the Giants were swept by another 
Bay team the Oakland Athletics. The 1989 Series was infamous for the massive 
earthquake that struck San Francisco Bay Area, delaying Games 3 and 4 of 
the World Series by 10 days. In the 2002 World Series against the Anaheim 
Angels, the Giants led 3 games to 2 heading back to Anaheim for Games 6 
and 7, but the Giants lost the last two for the third World Series loss 
since moving to SF. In 2010, the Giants won the division after overtaking 
the San Diego Padres for division lead late in the season. They reached 
the World Series after beating the Atlanta Braves in the NLDS, and the 
Philadelphia Phillies (who made back-to-back World Series appearances in 
the previous year) in the NLCS. The Giants defeated the Texas Rangers in 
five games to win the World Series Championship for the first time since 
moving to San Francisco in 1958, ending the Curse of Coogan's Bluff. At 
56 years between the World Series titles, the franchise endured their third 
longest World Series Championship drought, after the Cleveland Indians 
(see Curse of Rocky Colavito) and the Chicago Cubs (see Curse of the Billy 
Goat). The Giants would win two more World Series Championships within 
