Curtis Charles Flood (January 18, 1938 – January 20, 1997) was a Major 
League Baseball (MLB) center fielder who spent 15-seasons in the major 
leagues playing for the Cincinnati Redlegs, St. Louis Cardinals, and Washington 
Senators. Flood was an All-Star for three seasons and Gold Glove winner 
for seven consecutive seasons. He batted over .300 seven seasons. He led 
the National League (NL) in hits (211) in 1964 and in singles, 1963, 64, 
and 68. He also led the National League in putouts as center fielder four-times 
and in fielding percentage as center fielder three-times. Flood retired 
with the third most games in center field (1683) in NL history, trailing 
Willie Mays and Richie Ashburn. Flood became one of the pivotal figures 
in the sport's labor history when he refused to accept a trade following 
the 1969 season, ultimately appealing his case to the U.S. Supreme Court. 
Although his legal challenge was unsuccessful, it brought about additional 
solidarity among players as they fought against baseball's reserve clause 
and sought free agency. Born in Houston, Texas, and raised in Oakland, 
California,[1] Flood played in the same outfield in West Oakland's McClymonds 
High School as Vada Pinson and Frank Robinson.[2] Flood signed with the 
Cincinnati Redlegs in 1956 and made a handful of appearances for the team 
in 1956–57 before being traded to the Cardinals in December 1957.[3] For 
the next twelve seasons, he became a fixture in center field for St. Louis; 
although he struggled at the plate from 1958 to 1960, his defensive skill 
was apparent. He had his breakthrough year after Johnny Keane took over 
as manager in 1961: He batted .322 and followed by hitting .296 in 1962 
with 11 home runs. He continued to improve offensively in 1963, hitting 
.302 and scoring a career-high 112 runs, third most in the NL; he also 
had career bests in doubles (34), triples (9) and stolen bases (17) and 
collected 200 hits in an NL-leading 662 at bats. In that year he received 
the first of his seven consecutive Gold Gloves.[4] He earned his first 
All-Star selection in 1964. He batted .311. His 679 at-bats led the NL 
again and were the fifth highest total in league history to that point, 
setting a team record by surpassing Taylor Douthit's 1930 total of 664; 
Lou Brock broke the team record three years later with 689. He tied for 
tops in hits with The Pittsburgh Pirates' Roberto Clemente with 211.[5] 
Batting leadoff in the 1964 World Series against the New York Yankees, 
he hit only .200 but scored in three of the Cardinal victories as the team 
won in seven games for its first championship since 1946. In 1965 Flood 
had his greatest power output with 11 home runs and 83 runs batted in while 
hitting .310. He made the All-Star team again in 1966, a season in which 
he did not commit a single error in the outfield; his record errorless 
streaks of 226 games (NL record for an outfielder[RetroSimba 1] ) and 568 
total chances (major league record) ran from September 3, 1965, to June 
4, 1967. In 1967 he had his highest batting mark with a .335 average (though 
his other batting totals fell off from previous years), helping the Cardinals 
to another championship. In the 1967 World Series against the Boston Red 
Sox he hit a woeful .179 but made some crucial contributions. In game 1, 
he advanced Brock to third base twice, putting him in position to score 
both runs in a 2-1 victory; in game 3, he drove Brock in with the first 
run of a 5-2 win. As team co-captain (with Tim McCarver) in 1968 he had 
perhaps his best year, earning his third All-Star selection and finishing 
fourth in the MVP balloting (won by teammate Bob Gibson) on the strength 
of a .301 batting average and 186 base hits. Against the San Francisco 
Giants that year, Flood was involved in the final outs of the first back-to-back 
no-hitters in major league history. On September 17, he struck out for 
the final out of Gaylord Perry's 1-0 gem. The next day, he caught Willie 
McCovey's fly ball for the final out of Ray Washburn's 2-0 no-hitter.[6][7] 
Had he not momentarily lost his footing chasing a Jim Northrup fly ball 
(ruled a triple) with two out in the seventh inning of game 7 of the 1968 
World Series against the Detroit Tigers, the Cardinals might have won their 
third championship of the decade; Detroit scored twice on the play, with 
Northrup later coming in for a 3-0 lead, and won the game 4-1. Up to that 
point, Flood had been enjoying the best series of his career despite dealing 
with personal problems at home,[8] hitting .286 with three steals. In 1969, 
despite the lower pitching mound instituted that season, which saw a general 
rise in batting average league-wide, Flood's batting average slipped to 
.285. His brother was arrested during the season, and he participated in 
a couple of public confrontations with Cardinals management. Early in the 
season, his conflict with the Cardinals involved his desire for a $100,000 
salary.[8] Late in the season, he publicly criticized the team for reorganizing 
the team before they were officially eliminated. He received his seventh 
Gold Glove that season just as other events in his career began to affect 
the entire sport. Flood collected the first hit in a major league regular 
season game in Canada. He doubled off Montreal Expos pitcher Larry Jaster 
in the first inning of the Expos' inaugural home game, on April 14, 1969, 
at Jarry Park. (Jaster, a Cardinal teammate of Flood's just the year before, 
had been selected by the Expos in the expansion draft.) Despite his outstanding 
playing career, Flood's principal legacy developed off the field. He believed 
that Major League Baseball's decades-old reserve clause was unfair in that 
it kept players beholden for life to the team with which they originally 
signed, even when they had satisfied the terms and conditions of those 
contracts. On October 7, 1969, the Cardinals traded Flood, Tim McCarver, 
Byron Browne, and Joe Hoerner to the Philadelphia Phillies for Dick Allen, 
Cookie Rojas, and Jerry Johnson. Flood refused to report to the moribund 
Phillies, citing the team's poor record and dilapidated Connie Mack Stadium, 
and for (what he thought were) belligerent—and racist—fans. Flood said, 
"That I didn't think that I was going to report to Philadelphia, mainly 
because I didn't want to pick up twelve years of my life and move to another 
city."[9] Some reports say he was also irritated that he had learned of 
the trade from a reporter;[10] but Flood wrote in his autobiography that 
he was told by midlevel Cardinals management and was angry that the call 
did not come from the general manager.[11] He met with Phillies' general 
manager John Quinn, who left the meeting believing that he had persuaded 
Flood to report to the team.[11] Flood stood to forfeit a lucrative $100,000 
(equivalent to $610,368 in 2015)[12] contract if he did not report; but 
after a meeting with players' union head Marvin Miller,[13] who informed 
him that the union was prepared to fund a lawsuit, he decided to pursue 
his legal options.[4] In a letter to Baseball Commissioner Bowie Kuhn, 
Flood demanded that the commissioner declare him a free agent: Flood was 
influenced by the events of the 1960s that took place in the United States. 
According to Marvin Miller, Flood told the executive board of the players' 
union, "I think the change in black consciousness in recent years has made 
me more sensitive to injustice in every area of my life." However, he added 
that what he was doing in challenging the reserve clause was primarily 
as a major league ballplayer.[14] Commissioner Kuhn denied Flood's request 
for free agency, citing the propriety of the reserve clause and its inclusion 
in Flood's 1969 contract. On January 16, 1970, Flood filed a $1 million 
lawsuit against Kuhn and Major League Baseball, alleging violation of federal 
antitrust laws.[15] Even though Flood was making $90,000 at the time,[1] 
he likened the reserve clause to slavery. Among those testifying on his 
behalf were former players Jackie Robinson and Hank Greenberg, and former 
owner Bill Veeck; no active players testified, nor did any attend the trial. 
Although players' union representatives had voted unanimously to support 
Flood, rank-and-file players were strongly divided, with many fervently 
supporting the management position.[4] Flood v. Kuhn (407 U.S. 258) was 
argued before the Supreme Court on March 20, 1972. Flood's attorney, former 
Supreme Court Justice Arthur Goldberg, asserted that the reserve clause 
depressed wages and limited players to one team for life. Major League 
Baseball's counsel countered that Commissioner Kuhn had acted "for the 
good of the game."[citation needed] On June 19, 1972, the Supreme Court, 
invoking the principle of stare decisis ("to stand by things decided"), 
ruled 5-3 in favor of Major League Baseball, citing as precedent a 1922 
ruling in Federal Baseball Club v. National League (259 U.S. 200). Justice 
Lewis Powell recused himself owing to his ownership of stock in Anheuser-Busch, 
which owned the Cardinals.[4] After Flood’s lawsuit lost, many consequences 
followed. One of the worst things that happened to Flood, was being blackballed 
from baseball following his lawsuit. There were questions similar to “Do 
you realize you won’t be able to play in the MLB ever again?” or “You realize 
you are going to lose your job?” Every one Flood consulted was convinced 
he would be blackballed from baseball. Flood soon came to realization that 
his career was over as he later said, It would be difficult to come back. 
And besides, I don’t think I’ll be getting the opportunity to play again. 
As big as it is, baseball is a closely-knit unit. I doubt even one of the 
24 men controlling the game would touch me with a 10-foot pole. You can’t 
buck the Establishment.[16] Another outcome of Curt Flood’s lawsuit, albeit 
26 years later, was the Curt Flood Act of 1998. Gary R. Roberts, a graduate 
and author in the Marquette Law Scholarly Journal, explains the Act as: 
[T]he conduct, acts, practices, or agreements of persons' in the business 
of organized professional major league baseball directly relating to or 
affecting employment of major league baseball players to play baseball 
at the major league level are subject to the antitrust laws to the same 
extent such conduct, acts, practices, or agreements would be subject to 
the antitrust laws if engaged in by persons in other professional sports 
business affecting interstate commerce.[17] This act did exactly what Flood 
wanted; it stopped owners from controlling the players’ contracts and careers. 
Strangely enough, the Curt Flood Act did not eliminate the Reserve Clause 
and it still fully exists in baseball today. Not only did Flood help modify 
the Reserve Clause, he also helped bring in the 10/5 rule, which is also 
known as the Curt Flood Rule. The rule states that when a player has played 
for a team for five straight years, and played in the MLB for a total of 
ten years, they have to give the club their consent to be traded.[18] Flood 
sat out the entire 1970 season.[4] During this period he was bombarded 
with hate mail from fans, who accused him of trying to destroy baseball; 
his teammate Bob Gibson estimated "He got four or five death threats a 
day."[19] The Cardinals sent two minor leaguers to the Phillies in compensation 
for Flood's refusal to report. One of them—centerfielder Willie Montañez—went 
on to a 14-year major league career. In November 1970 the Phillies traded 
Flood and four other players to the Washington Senators. He signed a $110,000 
contract with Washington but played only 13 games of the 1971 season, with 
a .200 batting average and lackluster play in center field. Despite manager 
Ted Williams's vote of confidence, Flood retired. He had a lifetime batting 
average of .293 with 1861 hits, 85 home runs, 851 runs, and 636 RBI. Later 
that year Flood published a memoir entitled The Way It Is in which he spelled 
out in detail his argument against the reserve clause.[8] Four years later, 
in what is now remembered as the Seitz decision, arbitrator Peter Seitz 
ruled that since pitchers Andy Messersmith and Dave McNally played for 
one season without a contract, they were entitled to become free agents. 
The ruling essentially nullified the reserve clause and opened the door 
to widespread free agency. After his retirement Flood purchased a bar in 
the resort town of Palma on the island of Majorca, where he had moved in 
the wake of bankruptcy of his Curt Flood Associates business, two lawsuits, 
and an IRS lien on a home he bought for his mother.[8] He returned to baseball 
as a member of the Oakland Athletics broadcasting team in 1978. In 1988 
he was named commissioner of the short-lived Senior Professional Baseball 
Association.[4] In the mid-1990s he joined the management group of the 
United Baseball League (UBL), which was envisioned as a smaller alternative 
to MLB. While the group negotiated a long-term TV contract with Liberty 
Media, the deal (and the UBL) failed when Liberty was absorbed by MLB contractor 
Fox Sports.[20] In his spare time, he painted; his 1989 oil portrait of 
Joe DiMaggio sold at auction for $9,500 in 2006.[21] Diagnosed with throat 
cancer in 1995, Flood was initially given a 90-95 percent chance of survival. 
He underwent radiation treatments, chemotherapy, and throat surgery, which 
left him unable to speak.[22] On January 20, 1997, Flood died at UCLA Medical 
Center in Los Angeles, California, after developing pneumonia.[1] He was 
survived by his five children, Debbie, Gary, Shelly, Scott, and Curt Flood, 
Jr., his wife, actress Judy Pace, and his two step-daughters.[23] Flood 
was interred in Inglewood Park Cemetery, Inglewood, California.[24] Flood's 
legacy was acknowledged in Congress in 1997 via the Baseball Fans and Communities 
Protection Act of 1997.[25] Numbered HR 21 (Flood's Cardinals uniform number) 
and introduced in the House of Representatives on the first day of the 
105th Congress by Rep. John Conyers, Jr. (D–Michigan), the legislation 
established federal antitrust law protection for major league baseball 
players to the same extent as provided for other professional athletes. 
Similar legislation, titled the Curt Flood Act of 1998 and sponsored by 
Sen. Orrin Hatch (R–Utah), was introduced in the Senate and enacted into 
law the following year.[26][27] Curt Flood is a nonparticipating but pivotal 
