Curtis Edward "Curt" Gowdy (July 31, 1919 – February 20, 2006) was an American 
sportscaster, well known as the longtime "voice" of the Boston Red Sox 
and for his coverage of many nationally televised sporting events, primarily 
for NBC Sports in the 1960s and 1970s. The son of Jack Gowdy, a manager 
and dispatcher for the Union Pacific railroad,[2] Curt Gowdy was born in 
Green River, Wyoming, and moved to Cheyenne at age six. As a high school 
basketball player in the 1930s, he led the state in scoring. He enrolled 
at the University of Wyoming in Laramie, where he was a 5'9" (175 cm) starter 
on the basketball team and played varsity tennis, lettering three years 
in both sports for the Cowboys. He was also a member of the Alpha Tau Omega 
fraternity. After graduating in 1942 with a degree in business statistics, 
Gowdy aimed to become a fighter pilot, but a ruptured disk in his spine 
from a previous sports injury cut short his service in the Army Air Force, 
leading to a medical discharge in 1943. In November of that year, recovering 
from back surgery, Gowdy made his broadcasting debut in Cheyenne calling 
a "six-man" high school football game from atop a wooden grocery crate 
in subzero weather, with about 15 people in attendance. He found he had 
a knack for broadcasting, and worked at the small KFBC radio station and 
at the Wyoming Eagle newspaper as a sportswriter (and later sports editor). 
After several years in Cheyenne, he accepted an offer from CBS's KOMA radio 
in Oklahoma City in 1946. He was hired primarily to broadcast Oklahoma 
college football (then coached by new-hire Bud Wilkinson) and Oklahoma 
State college basketball games (then coached by Hank Iba). In Oklahoma, 
he met his wife, Jerre Dawkins, a graduate student at OU. Gowdy's distinctive 
play-by-play style during his subsequent broadcasts of minor league baseball, 
college football, and college basketball in Oklahoma City earned him a 
national audition and then an opportunity with the New York Yankees in 
1949, working with (and learning from) the legendary Mel Allen for two 
seasons. He was married to Geraldine (Jerre) Dawkins Gowdy. He had three 
children: Cheryl Ann Gowdy, Curtis Edward Gowdy Jr. (himself a successful 
producer for the likes of ABC and SNY[3]), and Trevor Gowdy. His cousin 
Joey Paul Gowdy[4] is an actor and producer in the entertainment business. 
Gowdy began his Major League Baseball broadcasting career working as the 
No. 2 announcer to Mel Allen for New York Yankees games on radio and television 
in 1949–50. There, he succeeded Russ Hodges, who departed to become the 
New York Giants' lead announcer when the Yankees and Giants decided to 
broadcast a full slate of 154 games, instead of sharing the same radio 
network and announcers for the 77 home games of each team that had been 
broadcast (no away games of either team were broadcast). Two years later, 
in Boston, the Red Sox and the Boston Braves followed a similar path, with 
each team opting for its own networks and announcers to allow each team 
to broadcast their full schedules, home and away. Jim Britt, who had called 
home games of both teams, decided to stay with the Braves, opening the 
top spot on the Red Sox broadcast team. In April 1951 at the age of 31, 
Gowdy began his tenure as the lead announcer for the Red Sox. For the next 
15 years, he called the exploits of generally mediocre Red Sox teams on 
WHDH radio and on three Boston TV stations: WBZ-TV, WHDH-TV, and WNAC-TV 
(WBZ and WNAC split the Red Sox TV schedule from 1948 through 1955; WBZ 
alone carried the Red Sox from 1955 through 1957; and WHDH took over in 
1958). During that time, Gowdy partnered with two future baseball broadcasting 
legends: Bob Murphy and Ned Martin. Chronic back pain caused Gowdy to miss 
the entire 1957 season. He also did nightly sports reports on WHDH radio 
when his schedule permitted. Gowdy was also the narrator of several Red 
Sox highlight films during his tenure in Boston which described the season 
in depth along with its key moments; this would lead to him eventually 
narrating World Series highlight films during his time with NBC (1968- 
1974, '77). Gowdy called Ted Williams' final at-bat where he hit a home 
run into the bullpen in right-center field off Jack Fisher of Baltimore. 
He also called Tony Conigliaro's home run in his first at-bat at Fenway 
Park on April 17, 1964 at the age of 19. He left WHDH after the 1965 season 
for NBC Sports, where for the next ten years he called the national baseball 
telecasts of the Saturday afternoon Game of the Week and Monday Night Baseball 
during the regular season (and the All-Star Game in July), and the postseason 
playoffs and World Series in October. Gowdy had numerous network assignments, 
first for ABC-TV in 1960, where he covered the first five seasons of the 
American Football League with broadcast partner Paul Christman. Gowdy and 
Christman also teamed to call college football for ABC in the 1960 and 
1961 seasons. In the fall of 1965, he moved to NBC, with whom he would 
be employed for over a decade. Gowdy was the lead play-by-play announcer 
for the network for both the American Football League (AFC from 1970 on) 
and Major League Baseball, but Gowdy also covered a wide range of sports, 
earning him the nickname of the "broadcaster of everything." Besides Paul 
Christman, who followed him to NBC in 1965, his other football broadcast 
partners were Kyle Rote, Al DeRogatis, Don Meredith, John Brodie, and Merlin 
Olsen. His broadcast partners for baseball included Pee Wee Reese, Tony 
Kubek, Sandy Koufax, and Joe Garagiola. He also had many different partners 
for basketball, including Tommy Hawkins and Billy Packer. Al DeRogatis 
was also Gowdy's partner for the college football games. After the 1975 
World Series, he was removed from NBC's baseball telecasts, after a controversy 
over comments of a call by an umpire, and when sponsor Chrysler insisted 
on having Joe Garagiola (who was their spokesman in many commercials) be 
the lead play-by-play voice. While Gowdy was on hand in the press box for 
Carlton Fisk's legendary home run in game 6 of the 1975 Series, the actual 
calls went to two of Gowdy's Red Sox successors, Dick Stockton on TV and 
Ned Martin on radio. Gowdy was Martin's color man on that home run. Gowdy 
continued as NBC's lead NFL announcer through the 1978 season, with his 
final broadcast being the memorable Super Bowl XIII between Pittsburgh 
and Dallas. With NBC now anxious to promote Dick Enberg to the lead NFL 
position, NBC orchestrated a trade with CBS for Don Criqui; Gowdy was, 
in essence "traded"[5] (Criqui and Gowdy switched networks) and called 
NFL games on CBS for two seasons with Hank Stram, and also did baseball 
on radio. He also called regional college football for ABC in 1982 and 
1983. In 1987, Gowdy was the radio voice of the New England Patriots. In 
1976, when Gowdy otherwise still worked for NBC, he was loaned to ABC to 
work on their Summer Olympics coverage in Montreal. Gowdy called swimming 
with Donna de Varona and basketball with Bill Russell. Curt Gowdy was present 
for some of American sports' storied moments, including Ted Williams' home 
run in his final at-bat in 1960, Super Bowl I, the AFL's infamous "Heidi" 
game of 1968, and (after the 1968 pro football season) the third AFL-NFL 
World Championship game (Super Bowl III) in which Joe Namath and the New 
York Jets defeated the NFL champion Baltimore Colts. Two years later in 
Super Bowl V, Gowdy called the dramatic 16-13 Colts' win over Dallas. The 
next year in 1971, Gowdy's telecast on NBC caused many a Christmas dinner 
to be delayed as the country locked in that Christmas Day to the longest 
game in pro football history, when the Miami Dolphins defeated the Kansas 
City Chiefs 27-24 in the final game at Kansas City's Municipal Stadium. 
He also covered Franco Harris' "Immaculate Reception" of 1972, Clarence 
Davis' miraculous catch in a "sea of hands" from Oakland Raiders quarterback 
Ken Stabler, to defeat the Miami Dolphins in the final seconds of a legendary 
1974 AFC playoff game, and Hank Aaron's 715th home run in 1974. In an interview 
by NFL Films, he said his most memorable game was Super Bowl III when the 
Jets upset the heavily favored Colts 16–7 after Namath guaranteed victory.[citation 
needed] Gowdy endeared himself to long-suffering American Football League 
fans when it was learned that in an off-air break towards the end of the 
game, he asked rhetorically: "I wonder if that (S.O.B.) Tex Maule is watching?", 
a reference to the Sports Illustrated writer who for years had denigrated 
the AFL.[citation needed] On-air, in contrast to his contemporary announcers 
of NFL games, he avoided their hyperbole and transparent adulation of players, 
and gave steady, nonpartisan, but colorful descriptions of AFL games.[citation 
needed] Gowdy was also known for the occasional malapropism, including 
a consoling comment just after the Red Sox lost the 1975 World Series: 
"Their future is ahead of them!"[citation needed] Over the course of a 
career that stretched into the 1980s, Gowdy covered pro football (both 
the AFL and NFL), Major League Baseball, college football, and college 
basketball. He was involved in the broadcast of 13 World Series, 16 baseball 
All-Star Games, 9 Super Bowls, 14 Rose Bowls, 8 Olympic Games and 24 NCAA 
Final Fours. He also hosted the long-running outdoors show The American 
Sportsman on ABC. Gowdy called all the Olympic Games televised by ABC from 
1964–84 with Roone Arledge's sports department at ABC. In the mid-1970s, 
Gowdy was host and producer of The Way It Was, for PBS, and in later years 
provided historic commentary for Inside the NFL, on HBO. Gowdy was also 
close friends with Arledge, and acknowledged that he gives him all the 
credit for making ABC what it is today, including the creation of the network's 
sports department, and the innovations for televising sporting events that 
made the sports departments at NBC and CBS jealous. The two were the creators, 
and very first producers for the Wide World of Sports television show. 
In 1970, he was coveted by ABC's Roone Arledge for the new Monday Night 
Football, but Gowdy was bound by his contract to NBC Sports (although he 
continued with Grits Gresham of Natchitoches, Louisiana, to host The American 
Sportsman on ABC). Gowdy was said to have a warm, slightly gravelly voice 
and an unforced, easy style that set him apart from his peers. (Author 
John Updike once described him as sounding "like everybody's brother-in-law.") 
Unlike many well-known sportscasters, Gowdy never developed catchphrases 
or signature calls, but merely described the action in a straightforward 
manner. Examples: Watching Red Sox broadcasts on WHDH-TV in the early 1960's, 
I recall Curt calling home runs hit over the Green Monster in left field 
by saying, "Over the wall, over the screen and into the street". I'd say 
that this would qualify as a "catch phrase". Gowdy's career wound down 
after The American Sportsman was canceled in 1985. He briefly came out 
of retirement in 1987 to call the New England Patriots on radio, and in 
1988 he returned to NBC to call September NFL games with Merlin Olsen and 
old partner Al DeRogatis, while Olsen's regular partner Dick Enberg was 
covering the Summer Olympics in Seoul. In May 2003, a few months shy of 
his 84th birthday, Gowdy called a Red Sox–Yankees game from Fenway Park, 
as part of the ESPN Major League Baseball "Living Legends" series. At the 
end of the broadcast, he thought he could have done better. ESPN's Chris 
Berman said, "We'll give you another chance." Gowdy replied, "Call me back." 
Gowdy also co-hosted the Drum Corps International Championships on PBS 
from 1989–1993 with Steve Rondinaro.[6] Gowdy made cameo appearances in 
the movies The Naked Gun (1988) and Summer Catch (2001), and his voice 
can be heard in Heaven Can Wait (1978) and BASEketball (1998). In the 1950s 
& 60s, 'Curt Gowdy did pre-recorded and live commercials for Red Sox sponsor 
Narragansett Beer. His voice speaking the famous line: "Hi Neighbor, have 
a 'Gansett" was known to Red Sox fans everywhere.[7] In the 1980s, Gowdy 
voiced a series of beer commercials for Genesee, an American product brewed 
by the Genesee Brewing Company in Rochester, New York. Essentially, these 
ads had an outdoor enthusiast theme, with Curt's tag line being "Genesee 
– the great outdoors in a glass." Mr. Gowdy, who also did some sportswriting 
during his early broadcasting days, wrote two books: Cowboy at the Mike 
(1966), with Al Hirshberg, and Seasons to Remember: The Way It Was in American 
Sports, 1945–1960 (1993), with John Powers. He also wrote the foreword 
for the 2000 book The Golden Boy, authored by Dr. George I. Martin, in 
which Gowdy described the subject of the book, Jackie Jensen, as possibly 
the best athlete he had ever covered. In 1963, Gowdy purchased radio stations 
800/WCCM and 93.7/WCCM-FM in Lawrence, Massachusetts, later changing the 
FM station's call letters to WCGY to somewhat match his name. Gowdy also 
owned several radio stations in Wyoming, including KOWB and KCGY in Laramie. 
He sold his broadcast interests in Massachusetts in 1994 and his Wyoming 
stations in 2002. He also owned 850/WEAT & WEAT-FM in West Palm Beach, 
Florida, and WBBX (AM) in New Hampshire. The year away from broadcasting 
the Red Sox in 1957 awakened him to the fact that he might need an alternate 
way of making of living, leading to his interest in station ownership. 
In 1970, Gowdy became the first sportscaster to receive the George Foster 
Peabody Award. The National Sportscasters and Sportswriters Association 
named Gowdy as Massachusetts Sportscaster of the Year five times (1959–63) 
and National Sportscaster of the Year twice (1966, 1969), and inducted 
him into its Hall of Fame in 1981. In 1985, he was inducted into the American 
Sportscasters Association Hall of Fame along with his onetime Yankees partner 
Mel Allen and Chicago legend Jack Brickhouse. He served as the organization's 
vice president and was a member of its Board of Directors. In addition, 
he was given the Ford C. Frick Award from the Baseball Hall of Fame in 
1984, the Pete Rozelle Award from the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1993 
and a lifetime achievement Emmy in 1992, and was selected to the Boston 
Red Sox Hall of Fame in 1995. Gowdy was president of the Naismith Memorial 
Basketball Hall of Fame for several years, and that institution's Curt 
Gowdy Media Award is presented annually to outstanding basketball writers 
and broadcasters; he was one of its first two recipients. Curt Gowdy's 
22 Halls of Fame honors/inductions: A new state park in Wyoming, opened 
in 1971, was officially named for Gowdy on March 27, 1972, one of numerous 
honors bestowed on the native son from the state of Wyoming on "Curt Gowdy 
Day." The 11,000 acre (44 km²) Curt Gowdy State Park is halfway between 
his high school hometown of Cheyenne and his college town of Laramie. Additional 
land was acquired by the state for the park in 2006. "It has two beautiful 
lakes, hiking trails, camping, boating, fishing, and beauty," said Gowdy. 
"It has everything I love. What greater honor can a man receive?" Gowdy 
was proud of his Wyoming heritage and loved the outdoors, and said that 
he was "born with a fly-rod in one hand," and that the sports microphone 
came a little later. In 2002, he recalled that his father, Edward Curtis 
Gowdy, who had taught him to hunt and fish, was the best fly-fisherman 
in the state. "We had free access to prime-time fishing and hunting. The 
outdoors was a way of life for me. I should have paid them to host The 
American Sportsman." On July 31, 2013, on the 94th anniversary of his birth, 
the state park opened an interpretive center with exhibits about the history 
of the park and Gowdy's work to preserve area natural resources. Milward 
Simpson, director of the Wyoming State Parks and Cultural Resources Department, 
describes the 7,400-square foot building, which also includes meeting rooms 
and a lobby, as a monument to the "fantastic legacy" left by Gowdy.[8] 
Gowdy died at the age of eighty-six at his winter home in Palm Beach, Florida, 
after an extended battle with leukemia. His funeral procession circled 
Fenway Park and he was interred in Mount Auburn Cemetery in Cambridge, 
Massachusetts. Pallbearers included his former NBC baseball analyst and 
New York Yankees shortstop Tony Kubek. Gowdy was survived by his wife Geraldine 
(Jerre) née Dawkins, whom he married June 24, 1949, daughter Cheryl Ann, 
sons Curt, Jr., and Trevor, and five grandchildren. On October 12, 2006, 
the United States Postal Service building in Green River, Wyoming, was 
officially designated as the "Curt Gowdy Post Office Building," honoring 
the place of Gowdy's birth. The legislation required for the USPS name 
