The Cy Young Award is given annually to the best pitchers in Major League 
Baseball (MLB), one each for the American League (AL) and National League 
(NL). The award was first introduced in 1956 by Baseball Commissioner Ford 
Frick in honor of Hall of Fame pitcher Cy Young, who died in 1955. The 
award was originally given to the single best pitcher in the major leagues, 
but in 1967, after the retirement of Frick, the award was given to one 
pitcher in each league.[1][2] Each league's award is voted on by members 
of the Baseball Writers' Association of America, with one representative 
from each team. As of the 2010 season, each voter places a vote for first, 
second, third, fourth and fifth place among the pitchers of each league. 
The formula used to calculate the final scores is a weighted sum of the 
votes.[A] The pitcher with the highest score in each league wins the award.[1] 
If two pitchers receive the same number of votes, the award is shared.[3] 
The current formula started in the 2010 season. Before that, dating back 
to 1970, writers voted for three pitchers, with the formula of 5 points 
for a first place vote, 3 for a second place vote and 1 for a third place 
vote. Prior to 1970, writers only voted for the best pitcher and used a 
formula of one point per vote.[1] The Cy Young Award was first introduced 
in 1956 by Commissioner of Baseball Ford C. Frick in honor of Hall of Fame 
pitcher Cy Young, who died in 1955.[1] The award would be given to pitchers 
only. Originally given to the single best pitcher in the major leagues, 
the award changed its format over time. From 1956 to 1966, the award was 
given to one pitcher in Major League Baseball. After Frick retired in 1967, 
William Eckert became the new Commissioner of Baseball. Due to fan requests, 
Eckert announced that the Cy Young Award would be given out both in the 
American League and the National League.[1] From 1956 to 1958, a pitcher 
was not allowed to win the award on more than one occasion; this rule was 
eliminated in 1959. After a tie in the 1969 voting for the AL Cy Young 
Award, the process was changed, in which each writer was to vote for three 
different pitchers: the first-place vote received five points, the second-place 
vote received three points, and the third-place vote received one point.[1] 
The first recipient of the Cy Young Award was Don Newcombe of the Dodgers. 
In 1957, Warren Spahn became the first left-handed pitcher to win the award. 
In 1963, Sandy Koufax became the first pitcher to win the award in a unanimous 
vote; two years later he became the first multiple winner. In 1978, Gaylord 
Perry (age 40) became the oldest pitcher to receive the award, a record 
that stood until broken in 2004 by Roger Clemens (age 42).[1] The youngest 
recipient was Dwight Gooden (age 20 in 1985). In 2012, R.A. Dickey became 
the first knuckleball pitcher to win the award.[4] In 1974, Mike Marshall 
won the award, becoming the first relief pitcher to win the award.[1] In 
1992, Dennis Eckersley was the first modern closer (first player to be 
used almost exclusively in ninth inning situations)[5][6][7] to win the 
award, and since then only one other relief pitcher has won the award, 
Éric Gagné in 2003 (also a closer). A total of nine relief pitchers have 
won the Cy Young Award across both leagues.[8] Steve Carlton in 1982 became 
the first pitcher to win more than three Cy Young Awards, while Greg Maddux 
in 1994 became the first to win at least three in a row (and received a 
fourth straight the following year), a feat later repeated by Randy Johnson.[9] 
Seventeen pitchers have won the award multiple times. Roger Clemens currently 
holds the record for the most awards won, with seven. Greg Maddux (1992–1995) 
and Randy Johnson (1999–2002) share the record for the most consecutive 
awards won. Clemens, Johnson, Pedro Martínez, Gaylord Perry, and Roy Halladay 
are the only pitchers to have won the award in both the American League 
and National League; Sandy Koufax is the only pitcher who won multiple 
awards during the period when only one award was presented for all of Major 
League Baseball. Roger Clemens was the youngest pitcher to win a second 
Cy Young Award, while Tim Lincecum is the youngest pitcher to do so in 
the National League and Clayton Kershaw is the youngest left-hander to 
do so. Clayton Kershaw is the youngest pitcher to win a third Cy Young 
Award. Only four teams have never had a pitcher win the Cy Young Award. 
The Brooklyn/Los Angeles Dodgers have won more than any other team with 
12. There have been 17 players who unanimously won the Cy Young Award, 
for a total of 23 wins. Five of these unanimous wins were accompanied with 
a win of the Most Valuable Player award (marked with * below; ** denotes 
that the player's unanimous win was accompanied with a unanimous win of 
the MVP). In the National League, 11 players have unanimously won the Cy 
Young Award, for a total of 14 wins. In the American League, 6 players 
