As Player Joseph Williams (April 6, 1886 – February 25, 1951), nicknamed 
"Cyclone Joe" or "Smokey Joe", was an American right-handed pitcher in 
the Negro leagues. He is widely recognized as one of the game's greatest 
pitchers, even though he never played a game in the major leagues. He was 
elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1999. Williams was born in Seguin, 
Texas; one of his parents was African American and the other was a Comanche 
Indian. He grew up to become an outstanding baseball pitcher, but as his 
path to the major leagues was barred by the color line, Williams spent 
his entire 27-year career (1905–32) pitching in the Negro leagues, Mexico, 
and the Caribbean. During Williams' years in New York, he acquired the 
nickname "Cyclone Joe", or simply "Cyclone", frequently being listed in 
box scores solely by that name. After joining the Homestead Grays in the 
late 1920s, his nickname became "Smokey Joe", and the older "Cyclone" appellation 
was rarely used after that. He entered professional baseball in 1905 with 
the San Antonio Black Bronchos, and was an immediate star, posting records 
of 28-4, 15-9, 20-8, 20-2 and 32-8. After that, the Chicago Giants, a team 
higher in the pecking order of black baseball, acquired him.[1] In 1910, 
the Giants owner Frank Leland pronounced him the best pitcher in baseball, 
in any league. In 1911, Williams joined the Lincoln Giants of New York, 
helping that club become one of the premier African-American teams of the 
era. When manager John Henry Lloyd departed in 1914, Williams took over 
as playing manager, a post he held through the 1923 season. After the Lincolns 
finished an ignominious fifth (out of six teams) in the Eastern Colored 
League's inaugural season, Williams was released in the spring of 1924. 
He joined the Brooklyn Royal Giants for a season, then signed with the 
independent Homestead Grays, where, except for a brief turn with the Detroit 
Wolves in 1932, he spent the rest of his career in top-level black baseball. 
Records are sketchy, but in 1914, Williams was credited with winning a 
total of 41 games against just three losses. In 1929, playing for the Grays 
in the American Negro League at the age of 43, Williams won 12 games and 
lost seven. Although barred from the major leagues, Williams pitched many 
games against major-league stars in post-season barnstorming exhibitions. 
He proved to be as tough against them as he was against the Negro leaguers, 
posting a 20-7 record in these games. Among his victims were Grover Alexander, 
Walter Johnson, Chief Bender, Rube Marquard, and Waite Hoyt, all Hall of 
Famers. Three different times, he faced the eventual National League champions. 
He won two of those games and lost the third, 1-0 to the 1917 New York 
Giants despite throwing a no-hitter. On August 7, 1930, at age 44, he struck 
out 27 Kansas City Monarchs in a 1-0, 12-inning victory. That same year, 
he beat a younger Negro league star who was just bursting into superstardom, 
Leroy (Satchel) Paige, also by 1-0, in their only meeting against one another. 
Williams retired from baseball two years later. Williams died at age 64 
in New York City. There was a "Smokey Joe Williams Day" at the Polo Grounds 
in 1950. Considerable debate existed and still exists over whether Williams 
or Paige was the greatest of the Negro league pitchers. Most modern sources 
lean toward Paige, but in 1952, a poll taken by the Pittsburgh Courier 
named Williams the greatest pitcher in Negro league history. In 1999, after 
extensive research on the early years of black baseball revealed his outstanding 
record, Williams was selected for the National Baseball Hall of Fame. Bill 
James ranked Williams as the 52nd greatest player in baseball history, 
behind Sandy Koufax and ahead of Roy Campanella. This would rank Williams 
as the 12th greatest pitcher, behind Koufax and ahead of Bob Feller.[3] 
