Düsseldorf (German: [ˈdʏsl̩dɔɐ̯f] ( listen), Low Franconian, Ripuarian: 
Düsseldörp [ˈdʏsl̩dœɐ̯p]) is the capital city of the German state of North 
Rhine-Westphalia and the seventh most populous city in Germany.[2] Düsseldorf 
is an international business and financial centre, renowned for its fashion 
and trade fairs.[3][4][5] The city is headquarters to one Fortune Global 
500 and two DAX companies. Messe Düsseldorf organises nearly one fifth 
of premier trade shows.[6] Düsseldorf is known for its academy of fine 
arts (Joseph Beuys, Emanuel Leutze, August Macke, Gerhard Richter, Sigmar 
Polke and Andreas Gursky), its pioneering influence on electronic/experimental 
music (Kraftwerk) and its Japanese community. On the river Rhine, Düsseldorf 
holds Rhenish Carnival celebrations every year in February / March.[7] 
Mercer's 2012 Quality of Living survey ranked Düsseldorf the sixth city 
in the world.[8][9] When the Roman Empire was strengthening its position 
throughout Europe, a few Germanic tribes clung in marshy territory off 
the eastern banks of the Rhine River.[10] In the 7th and 8th centuries, 
the odd farming or fishing settlement could be found at the point where 
the small river Düssel flows into the Rhine. It was from such settlements 
that the city of Düsseldorf grew. The first written mention of Düsseldorf 
(then called Dusseldorp in the local Low Rhenish dialect) dates back to 
1135. Under Emperor Friedrich Barbarossa the small town of Kaiserswerth 
to the north of Düsseldorf became a well-fortified outpost, where soldiers 
kept a watchful eye on every movement on the Rhine. Kaiserswerth eventually 
became a suburb of Düsseldorf in 1929. In 1186, Düsseldorf came under the 
rule of the Counts of Berg. 14 August 1288 is one of the most important 
dates in the history of Düsseldorf. On this day the sovereign Count Adolf 
VIII of Berg granted the village on the banks of the Düssel town privileges. 
Before this, a bloody struggle for power had taken place between the Archbishop 
of Cologne and the count of Berg, culminating in the Battle of Worringen.[citation 
needed] The Archbishop of Cologne's forces were wiped out by the forces 
of the count of Berg who were supported by citizens and farmers of Cologne 
and Düsseldorf, paving the way for Düsseldorf's elevation to city status, 
which is commemorated today by a monument on the Burgplatz. The custom 
of turning cartwheels is credited to the children of Düsseldorf. There 
are variations of the origin[11] of the cartwheeling children. Today the 
symbol (Der Radschläger)[11] represents the story and every year the Düsseldorfers 
celebrate by having a cartwheeling contest. After this battle the relationship 
between the four cities deteriorated, because they were commercial rivals. 
It is often said that there is a kind of hostility between the citizens 
of Cologne and Düsseldorf. Today, it finds its expression mainly in a humorous 
form (especially during the Rhineland Karneval) and in sports.[citation 
needed] A market square sprang up on the banks of the Rhine and the square 
was protected by city walls on all four sides. In 1380, the dukes of Berg 
moved their seat to the town and Düsseldorf was made regional capital of 
the Duchy of Berg. During the following centuries several famous landmarks 
were built, including the Collegiate Church of St Lambertus. In 1609, the 
ducal line of the United Duchies of Jülich-Cleves-Berg died out, and after 
a virulent struggle over succession, Jülich and Berg fell to the Wittelsbach 
Counts of Palatinate-Neuburg, who made Düsseldorf their main domicile, 
even after they inherited the Electorate of the Palatinate, in 1685, becoming 
now Prince-electors as Electors Palatine.[citation needed] Under the art 
loving Johann Wilhelm II (r. 1690–1716), a vast art gallery with a huge 
selection of paintings and sculptures, were housed in the Stadtschloss 
(city castle). After his death, the city fell on hard times again, especially 
after Elector Charles Theodore inherited Bavaria and moved the electoral 
court to Munich. With him he took the art collection, which became part 
of what is now the Alte Pinakothek in Munich. Destruction and poverty struck 
Düsseldorf after the Napoleonic Wars. Napoleon made Berg a Grand Duchy 
and Düsseldorf its capital. Johann Devaranne, a leader of Solingen's resistance 
to Napoleon's conscription decrees, was executed here in 1813. After Napoleon's 
defeat, the whole Rhineland including Berg was given to the Kingdom of 
Prussia in 1815. The Rhine Province's parliament was established in Düsseldorf.[when?] 
By the mid-19th century, Düsseldorf enjoyed a revival thanks to the Industrial 
Revolution as the city boasted 100,000 inhabitants by 1882; the figure 
doubled in 1892. In 1920, Düsseldorf became the centre of the General Strike. 
On 15 April 1920, 45 delegates of the German Miners Union were murdered 
by the Freikorps.[12] The city was a target of strategic bombing during 
World War II, particularly during the RAF bombing campaign in 1943 when 
over 700 bombers were used in a single night. Raids continued late into 
the war. As part of the campaign against German oil facilities, the RAF 
raid of 20–21 February on the Rhenania Ossag refinery in the Reisholz district 
of the city halted oil production there. The Allied ground advance into 
Germany reached Düsseldorf in mid-April 1945. The United States 97th Infantry 
Division easily captured the city on 18 April 1945.,[13] after the local 
German Resistance group launched Aktion Rheinland. In 1946, Düsseldorf 
was made capital of the new federal state of North Rhine-Westphalia. The 
city's reconstruction proceeded at a frantic pace and the economic transformation 
guided Düsseldorf's economic growth.[citation needed] Düsseldorf lies at 
the centre of the Lower Rhine basin, where the delta of the River Düssel 
flows into the Rhine. The city lies on the east side of the Rhine, except 
District 4 (Oberkassel, Niederkassel, Heerdt and Lörick). Across the Rhine, 
the city of Neuss stands on the delta of the Erft river. Düsseldorf lies 
southwest of the Ruhr urban area, and in the middle of the Rhine-Ruhr metropolitan 
region. Düsseldorf is built entirely on alluvium, mud, sand, clay and occasionally 
gravel. The highest point in Düsseldorf is the top of Sandberg in the far 
eastern part of the city (Hubbelrath borough) at 165 metres (541 ft). The 
lowest point is at the far northern end in Wittlaer borough where the Schwarzbach 
enters the Rhine, with an average elevation of 28 metres (92 ft). The following 
districts and cities border Düsseldorf (clockwise starting from the north): 
the City of Duisburg, the District of Mettmann (Ratingen, Mettmann, Erkrath, 
Hilden, Langenfeld, and Monheim), and the District of Neuss (Dormagen, 
Neuss, and Meerbusch). Like the rest of the lower Rhineland, Düsseldorf 
experiences moderate winters with little snowfall and mild to warm summers. 
The average annual temperature is 10.6 °C (51 °F) with an average yearly 
precipitation of 797 millimetres (31 in). The dominant wind direction is 
from the west with velocities in the range of 3 to 4 m/s (7–9 mph), with 
gusts of 3.5 −4.8 m/s (8–10.7 mph). The wind is calm (defined as being 
under 2 m/s or 4.5 mph) about 35% of the time, more frequently at night 
and in the winter.[14][15] Source 2: Sun = http://meteo-climat-bzh.dyndns.org] 
With a population of 593,682 within the city boundaries (31 December 2012),[17] 
Düsseldorf is Germany's seventh largest city. Its population surpassed 
the threshold of 100,000 inhabitants during the height of industrialisation 
in 1882, and peaked at just over 705,000 in 1962. The city then began to 
lose residents with many moving into neighbouring municipalities. However, 
since the late 1990s, the city's population has been slowly rising again. 
A total of 109,883[16] of Düsseldorf's population are foreigners (31 December 
2008), the majority of whom come from within Europe (81,742). The largest 
national minorities are Turks, Greeks, and Poles. Düsseldorf and its surroundings 
have the third-largest Japanese community in Europe and the largest in 
Germany (about 11,000 people).[18][19] Düsseldorf has the third-largest 
Jewish community in Germany, with about 7,600 members.[citation needed] 
Since 1975, Düsseldorf is divided into ten administrative districts. Each 
district (Bezirk) has its own elected district council (Bezirksvertretung) 
and its own district mayor (Bezirksvorsteher). The district councils are 
advisory only. Each district is further subdivided into boroughs. There 
are 50 boroughs in Düsseldorf.[20] Düsseldorf has become one of the top 
telecommunications centres in Germany. With two of the four big German 
providers of mobile frequencies, D2 Vodafone and E-Plus, Düsseldorf leads 
the German mobile phone market. There are many foreign information and 
communication technology companies in Düsseldorf such as Huawei, NTT, Ericsson, 
Nokia, and GTS.[citation needed]. There are 18 internet service providers 
located in the capital of North-Rhine Westphalia. There are two airlines 
with headquarters in the city: Eurowings and formerly independent LTU International.[21] 
Many of the internet companies in Düsseldorf have their roots in the world 
of advertising: there are 400 advertising agencies in Düsseldorf, among 
them three of the largest in Germany: BBDO Group and Publicis. A number 
of affiliates of foreign agencies deserve mention as well, such as Ogilvy 
& Mather, Dentsu, Hakuhodo, and DDB. There are also about 200 publishing 
houses in Düsseldorf. There are around 170 national and international financial 
institutions, and about 130 insurance agencies, and one of Germany's eight 
stock exchanges. Several other major companies have their headquarters 
in the city: Peek & Cloppenburg (fashion), L'Oréal Germany (Cosmetics and 
Beauty); Henkel AG & Co. KGaA (Branded Consumer Goods and Industrial technologies); 
Metro (wholesale, retail); Ergo (insurance), Esprit Holdings (fashion, 
headquarters in Ratingen near Düsseldorf), Cognis (chemicals, headquarter 
in Monheim near Düsseldorf, but production mainly in Düsseldorf).[citation 
needed] Daimler AG builds the Mercedes-Benz Sprinter light commercial vehicles 
in Düsseldorf. Since the 1960s, there has been a strong relationship between 
the city and Japan. Many Japanese banks and corporations have their European 
headquarters in Düsseldorf – so many that Düsseldorf has the third largest 
Japanese community in Europe, after London and Paris.[18][19] The "Kö", 
which stands for Königsallee ("King's Avenue"), is a popular shopping destination. 
Some of the most reputed jewellery shops, designer labels, and galleries 
have their stores here. The Kö has among the highest rents for retail and 
office space in Germany.[22] Important newspapers and journals such as 
Handelsblatt, Rheinische Post, Wirtschaftswoche, Deutsches Wirtschaftsblatt 
and VDI-Nachrichten are published in Düsseldorf. Almost all of these papers 
are available online on the Internet. Renowned filmmaking companies, such 
as Germany's biggest cinema enterprise, the Riech-Group, and TV channels 
such as WDR and QVC are located in Düsseldorf. The foundation Film- und 
Medienstiftung NRW is supporting the production of film and new media.[citation 
needed] In regards to movies and movie theatres in Düsseldorf, movie goers 
have the option to choose between multiple different languages at the theatre. 
Many mainstream movies are shown in English, Spanish, French, and German.[23] 
Düsseldorf Airport, also referred to as Rhein-Ruhr Airport, is located 
eight kilometres (5.0 miles) from the city centre and can easily be reached 
by train or the S-Bahn urban railway. There is a long-distance train station 
served by regional and national services, which is linked to the airport 
by the SkyTrain, an automatic people mover. Another station situated under 
the terminal building carries the S-Bahn line (S11) to Düsseldorf Central 
Station, and to Cologne as well as a few selected night services. After 
Frankfurt and Munich, Düsseldorf International is Germany's third largest 
commercial airport, with 21,850,489 passengers annually (2014). The airport 
offers 180 destinations on 4 continents, and is served by 70 airlines. 
The airport buildings were partly destroyed by a devastating fire caused 
by welding works in 1996, killing 17 people. It was completely rebuilt 
and the Skytrain installed. The city is a major hub in the Deutsche Bahn 
(DB) railway network. More than 1,000 trains stop in Düsseldorf daily. 
Düsseldorf Central Station at Konrad-Adenauer-Platz is located in Düsseldorf-Stadtmitte. 
Several Rhein-Ruhr S-Bahn lines connect Düsseldorf to other cities of Rhine-Ruhr. 
Local Düsseldorf Straßenbahn and light rail Düsseldorf Stadtbahn traffic, 
as well as local bus traffic, is carried out by the city-owned Rheinbahn 
which operates within the VRR public transport system. The light rail system 
also serves neighbouring cities and is partially operated underground. 
The Central Station and the Airport Station (Flughafen-Bahnhof) are connected 
to the national and European high-speed systems (Intercity/Eurocity, IC/EC 
and InterCityExpress). In Düsseldorf there are 1320 officially licensed 
Taxis. According to the regulations, the cars are always in ivory colour. 
On the back window you always find a black number on a yellow patch. Credit 
card payment has to be accepted at the Taxi stands at Airport of Düsseldorf. 
The supply of taxis in Düsseldorf is over the German average[citation needed]. 
Two taxi organisations cover the market[citation needed]. "Taxi-Düsseldorf" 
offers more than 1180 cabs in different sizes for max. 8 Passengers. The 
smaller one is "Rhein-Taxi" with more than 120 cabs. It is obligatory to 
carry out any journeys to destinations in the city and directly neighbouring 
cities.[24] North Rhine-Westphalia has the densest network of autobahns 
in Germany and Düsseldorf is directly accessible via the A3, A44, A46, 
A52, A57, A59 and A524. Elector Jan Wellem and his wife Anna Maria Luisa 
de' Medici of Tuscany, were patrons of Düsseldorf's first significant cultural 
activities in the 17th and 18th centuries. Heinrich Heine, whose 200th 
birthday was celebrated in 1997 and who originally had a proposed memorial 
in the city dedicated to him; Clara and Robert Schumann; and as Felix Mendelssohn, 
are the most prominent artists related to the city, which is home to a 
distinguished Academy of Fine Arts. The Düsseldorf cultural scene comprises 
traditional and avant-garde, classical and glamorous. The world-famous 
state art collection of North Rhine-Westphalia, the highly acclaimed Deutsche 
Oper am Rhein (opera), and the Düsseldorfer Schauspielhaus (theatre), artistic 
home of Gustaf Gründgens, are major elements of Düsseldorf's reputation 
as a centre of the fine arts. Düsseldorf is well known for its Altbier,[25] 
a hoppy beer which translates as old [style] beer, a reference to the pre-lager 
brewing method of using a warm top-fermenting yeast like British pale ales.[26] 
Over time the Alt yeast adjusted to lower temperatures, and the Alt brewers 
would store or lager the beer after fermentation, leading to a cleaner, 
crisper beer. The name "altbier" first appeared in the 19th century to 
differentiate the beers of Düsseldorf from the new pale lager that was 
gaining a hold on Germany.[27] Brewers in Düsseldorf used the pale malts 
that were used for the modern pale lagers, but retained the old ("alt") 
method of using warm fermenting yeasts. The first brewery to use the name 
Alt was Schumacher which opened in 1838.[28] The founder, Mathias Schumacher, 
allowed the beer to mature in cool conditions in wooden casks for longer 
than normal, and laid the foundation for the modern alt – amber coloured 
and lagered.[29] The result is a pale beer that has some of the lean dryness 
of a lager but with fruity notes as well.[30] There are five pub-breweries 
in Düsseldorf which brew Altbier on the premises: Füchschen, Schumacher, 
Schlüssel, Uerige and Brauerei Kürzer. Four of the five are in the historic 
centre of Düsseldorf (Altstadt); the other (Schumacher), between the Altstadt 
and Düsseldorf Central railway station (Hauptbahnhof), also maintains an 
establishment in the Altstadt, Im Goldenen Kessel, across the street from 
Schlüssel. Each (except Brauerei Kürzer) produces a special, secret, seasonal 
"Sticke" version in small quantities, though the names vary: Schlüssel 
spells it "Stike", without the "c", while Schumacher calls its special 
beer "Latzenbier", meaning "slat beer", possibly because the kegs from 
which it was poured had been stored on raised shelves.[31] Füchschen's 
seasonal is its Weihnachtsbier (Christmas beer), available in bottles starting 
mid-November, and served in the brewpub on Christmas Eve.[32] Since the 
1950s the "Kom(m)ödchen" has been one of the most prominent political cabarets 
of Germany. The city's most famous contribution to the culture of modern 
popular music is beyond doubt the avant-garde electronic music band Kraftwerk. 
Formed by a few Düsseldorf-born musicians, Kraftwerk are internationally 
known as the most significant band in the history of post-war German music 
and as pioneers in electronic music.[33] Internationally known power metal 
band Warlock was formed in Düsseldorf in 1982. Their frontwoman, Doro Pesch, 
has had a successful solo career in Europe and Asia since Warlock ended. 
The punk band Die Toten Hosen, which is famous around the world, also the 
most popular singers[citation needed] in Germany Westernhagen and Heino 
come from Düsseldorf. The electronic act D.A.F. was formed in the city 
in 1978, as well as the electronic/industrial pioneers Die Krupps in 1980. 
The experimental post-punk group La Düsseldorf was named after the city, 
for which it paid with a legal case in the early 1980s.[citation needed] 
Düsseldorf, Germany is the fashion capital of Germany as it is a major 
cultural center for the art and fashion scenes. The fashionable clothes 
trend took root in this city before 1949. 1949 is the date of the first 
fashion show staged in Düsseldorf. Fashion trends have occurred as access 
to more elegant clothing for the general public has been a part of the 
culture for almost a century. Two times a year an event called the, “Voices 
of Fashion,” occurs and attracts many people to visit Düsseldorf to find 
the latest fashion items. There are famous designers that have made a name 
for themselves in Düsseldorf as well. Designers Sabine Schumacher, Peter 
O. Mahler, and Renate Harvan all design in Düsseldorf. To keep the creativity 
and passion for fashion alive in Düsseldorf everyday there are schools 
dedicated to fashion design in Düsseldorf as well. Akademie Mode and Design 
Institution, Design Department Academy, and Mode Design College are the 
three prominent fashion schools residing in Düsseldorf.[34] One of the 
biggest cultural events in Düsseldorf is the Karneval (also referred to 
as the "fifth season") which starts every year on 11 November at 11:11 a.m., 
and reaches its climax on Rosenmontag (Rose Monday), featuring a huge parade 
through the streets of Düsseldorf. Karneval ends on Aschermittwoch (Ash 
Wednesday). The Düsseldorfer Radschläger (Boy who does Cartwheels) is said 
to be the city's oldest tradition. The symbol of the cartwheeler can be 
found on many souvenirs and various things in Düsseldorf have the cartwheelers 
to thank for their names. This tradition was honoured in 1954 by the erection 
of a fountain, called Cartwheeler's Fountain, on the Burgplatz in Düsseldorf.[citation 
needed] The tradition cannot be linked to one specific historical event, 
instead, there are several stories surrounding the beginnings of the Düsseldorf 
Cartwheelers. Probably the most well known version is Battle of Worringen. 
In the battle of 1288 Count Adolf devastatingly defeated the Archbishop 
of Cologne. As a consequence of this victory, Düsseldorf obtained Town 
privileges. The inhabitants, especially the children ran joyfully on the 
streets and performed cartwheels. Another story talks about a wedding procession 
during which one of the wheels of the wedding carriage broke. In order 
to fend off the threat of bad luck, a boy supposedly jumped to the carriage, 
took hold of the wheel and thus became a living part of the wheel. Whether 
the story is about the marriage of Jan Wellem and Anna Maria Luisa de' 
Medici or the wedding of Margravine Jakobea of Baden and Johann Wilhelm 
is debatable. Another story gives an account of this wedding between Margrave 
Jacobe von Baden and Johann Wilhelm, in 1585. According to legend she felt 
miserable about her marriage, but the cartwheelers who displayed their 
skills next to her carriage were able to make her smile. Numerous travelers 
were attracted to the city by great exhibitions- the forerunner of today’s 
fairs between the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th 
century. During this time the children who did the cart wheeling found 
out that it was a profitable source of income. The bourgeoisie accepted 
this in good humor as a symbolic act of local patriotism. In the beginning 
the lads shouted "för eene Penning schlage ich das Rad“ (cartwheel for 
a penny). The Jan Wellem monument returned to Düsseldorf at the end of 
the Second World War. The procession was accompanied by torches, fanfares 
and the cartwheeling boys. Cartwheelers can be found by several fountains 
within the city. The most famous is Cartwheeler’s Fountain in Burgplatz 
with an inscription of a quote by Hans Müller-Schlösser: "Radschläger wolle 
mer blieve, wie jeck et de Minschen och drieve“ (We will always remain 
cartwheelers, however crazy it drives people.) The fountain was designed 
by Alfred Zschorsch in 1954 and donated by the Heimatverein Düsseldorfer 
Jonges, which is a club devoted to the maintenance of local and regional 
traditions. There are other cartwheelers that decorate storm drains and 
the door knocker on the Church of Lambertus, which was designed by Friedrich 
Becker. He created the cartwheeler in front of the Schadow Arcades.[citation 
needed] This tradition has been kept alive by the Alde Düsseldorfer Bürgergesellschaft 
von 1920 e. V., a society founded in 1920, who organized the first cartwheeler 
competition on 17 October 1937. Since 1971 this event has been h[35] eld 
annually in cooperation with the Stadtsparkasse (a local bank) but formerly 
took place in the Königsallee. Since 2006 it has taken place on the Rheinwerft, 
near the old part of town. This is a fixed date in the city’s calendar 
of events. About 500 boys regularly participate in this event and since 
1971 girls have also taken part. In 2001 the art project Radschläger-Kunst 
(Cartwheeler Art) was called into life, in which over 100 cartwheeler sculptures 
have been designed by various artists. The door knocker on the Church of 
Lambertus functioned as a model for the sculptures that are 2 metres (6 feet 
7 inches) high, 2 metres (6 feet 7 inches) wide and 30 cm (12 in) deep. 
They were positioned around the city center. Some of the sculptures have 
been auctioned off to companies and private owners.[citation needed] Every 
Christmas, the city of Düsseldorf uses the city centre to host one of the 
largest Christmas gatherings in Germany. The Christmas festival occurs 
every year from 17 November until 23 December. This Christmas fest brings 
Düsseldorf a large portion of tourism every year as many people from nearby 
areas come to the city to drink mulled wine and hot chocolate and watch 
craftsman blow glass and create art. The event contains many small wooden 
buildings all clustered in the middle of the city for all the citizens 
to enjoy. The event, too many visitors, has an old European feel but is 
very lively. Traditional meals in the region are Rheinischer Sauerbraten 
(a beef roast and sometimes horse marinated for a few days in vinegar and 
spices served with gravy and raisins) and Heaven and Earth (Himmel und 
Äd; black pudding with stewed apples mixed with mashed potatoes). In winter 
the people like to eat Muscheln Rheinischer Art (Rhenish-style mussels) 
as well as Reibekuchen (fried potato pancake served with apple sauce). 
Also a special meal: Düsseldorfer Senfrostbraten (Steaks roasted with Düsseldorf 
mustard on top). Düsseldorf is known for its strong Dijon-like mustard 
served in a traditional pot called "Mostertpöttche", which was eternalised 
in a still life by Vincent van Gogh in 1884.[36] The Rhine Metropolis is 
one of the most diverse areas in terms of culinary diversity. Düsseldorf, 
with the third largest Japanese community in Europe, not only provides 
a wide range of culinary cuisine but also has a solid foundation of Authentic 
Asian food in the city. Düsseldorf’s exceptional culinary cuisine has been 
recognized and visited by the Worldwide leading travel guide of Lonely 
Planet. Along with a broad range of diverse cultural cuisine, Düsseldorf 
is also home to various Michelin starred restaurants that are world Renowned.[37] 
Alve Hahn-this dish is made from a half a double rye roll which is another 
of the specialties of Dusselfdorf, buttered, with a thick slice of aged, 
Gouda cheese, onions, mustard, ground paprika and sour pickles. Himmel 
un Aad- a dish of mashed potatoes and apples along with slices of blutwurst. 
Caramelized onions are usually served with this meal. Reibekuchen is another 
famous dish from Dusselfdorf, this dish is usually drizzled with Rübensyrup 
(beet syrup) and is served on pumpernickel slices with along with applesauce[38] 
The Förderpreis für Literatur der Landeshauptstadt Düsseldorf is a German 
Literary award donated by the City of Düsseldorf in Northrhine-Westphalia.[39] 
The Prize for Literature in support of the City of Düsseldorf is awarded 
since 1972 by the Council of the City due to the decisions of the courts.[40] 
The Förderpreis für Literatur der Landeshauptstadt Düsseldorf is given 
once a year to artists and groups, especially to the areas of poetry, writing, 
review and translation.[41] Düsseldorf and Cologne have a "fierce regional 
rivalry".[42] The rivalry includes carnival parades, football, ice hockey 
and beer.[42] People in Cologne prefer Kölsch while people in Düsseldorf 
prefer Alt.[42] Waiters and patrons will "scorn" and make a "mockery" of 
people who order Alt beer in Cologne and Kölsch in Düsseldorf.[42] The 
rivalry has been described as a "love-hate relationship".[42] The ISS-Dome, 
an ice hockey stadium opened in 2006 The Esprit Arena (former LTU) Logo 
during Eurovision Song Contest 2011 ESC Racecourse, general view from east 
Main Tribune of the Racecourse for horses/Galopprennbahn Düsseldorf Düsseldorf's 
football team Fortuna Düsseldorf won the 1933 German championship, the 
German Cup in 1979 and 1980, and were finalists in the European Cup Winners 
Cup in 1979. After 15 years in lower leagues they were promoted following 
a play-off win over Hertha Berlin in 2012. As of 2014[update], they are 
back in the second division of German soccer. Their new stadium, the Esprit 
arena, opened in January 2005 and has a capacity of 54,500. Düsseldorf 
was one of nine host cities for the 1974 FIFA World Cup, and the Rochusclub 
Düsseldorf has hosted the tennis World Team Cup from 1978 till 2012.[citation 
needed] Other sports in Düsseldorf are ice hockey (the Düsseldorfer EG 
which play in the new ISS-Dome) and American football. The Düsseldorf Panther 
are one of the most successful teams in Germany with six German Bowl titles 
and the Eurobowl victory in 1995. In addition the Junior-Team is the most 
successful youth department in Germany with fifteen Junior Bowl victorys. 
Rhine Fire Düsseldorf was an established team of the NFL Europe and won 
the World Bowl two times in 1998 and 2000. Düsseldorf has a successful 
rugby union team (Düsseldorf Dragons), who play in the regional NRW league 
and consistently finish with a top-three position. Table tennis is also 
played (Borussia Düsseldorf – the most successful team in Germany with 
Timo Boll), as are handball (HSG Düsseldorf), basketball (Düsseldorf Giants), 
baseball (Düsseldorf Senators) and dancing (Rot-Weiß Düsseldorf). Düsseldorf 
also has a Cricket team, the Düsseldorf Blackcaps, who play in the regional 
NRW league.[54] Heinrich Heine University Düsseldorf is located in the 
southern part of the city. It has about 20,000 students and a wide range 
of subjects in natural sciences, mathematics, computer sciences, philosophy, 
social sciences, arts, languages, medicine, pharmacy, economy and the law. 
Other academic institutions include International primary and secondary 
schools: Düsseldorf is twinned with:[62] In addition, Düsseldorf has friendship 
