Dale Bryan Murphy (born March 12, 1956) is a former Major League Baseball 
outfielder, catcher, and first baseman. During an 18-year baseball career, 
1976–93, he played for three different teams, but is best noted for his 
time with the Atlanta Braves. Murphy won consecutive National League Most 
Valuable Player Awards (1982–83), the National League's Silver Slugger 
Award four straight years (1982–85), and the National League's Gold Glove 
Award five straight years (1982–86). He is an inductee to the Oregon Sports 
Hall of Fame, Georgia Sports Hall of Fame, and World Sports Humanitarian 
Hall of Fame.[1] In 1976 Murphy began his major league career with a nineteen-game 
stint catching with the Atlanta Braves. He appeared in only eighteen games 
the following season. In 1978 Murphy played first base mostly; at the plate 
he slumped to a .226 batting average, though he also showed hints of his 
future power by hitting 23 home runs.[2] Murphy switched to the outfield 
in 1980, a move that would help initiate a decade of highly productive 
play in the National League. Beginning in left field, he soon switched 
to center field, the position at which he would find his greatest success. 
By 1982, the most decorated year of Murphy's career, the former catcher 
had transformed himself into an All-Star MVP outfielder who appeared in 
each of Atlanta's 162 games. His turnaround as a fielder was equally stark. 
In 1978 as a first baseman, Murphy had led all National League first-baggers 
in errors. In 1982, spending time at each of the three outfield positions, 
he won his first of five consecutive Gold Gloves, as well as the first 
MVP Award by a Brave since Hank Aaron in 1957 with what were then the Milwaukee 
Braves.[2] Playing in the decade before the Braves began their dominance 
of the National League East, Murphy also made his only postseason appearance 
in 1982. He succeeded although the eventual World Series-champion St. Louis 
Cardinals eliminated the Braves in the 1982 National League Championship 
Series. The league's most valuable player failed to translate his regular 
season preeminence into October success, hitting safely but three times 
and scoring only one run. Murphy rebounded from the postseason sweep with 
another MVP award in 1983. The period ultimately proved the high-water 
era of Murphy's career. Each year during the four season span from 1982 
to 1986 he won a Gold Glove, appeared in the All-Star Game, and placed 
in the top ten in MVP voting.[2] In 1988, however, despite being voted 
to what would be his final All-Star appearance, Murphy's production began 
an inexorable slide downward. Never a particularly high average hitter, 
Murphy saw his batting average free-fall from .295 in 1987 to .226 in 1988. 
Only once more, in 1991, would Murphy bat above .250. Once a consistent 
source of power at the plate, he never again hit even 25 home runs in a 
season. The Braves traded Murphy after fifteen seasons to the Philadelphia 
Phillies in 1990. Murphy's three seasons with the Phillies were mostly 
uneventful. In his final season (1993), Murphy took a pay cut of over $2,000,000, 
down to the major league minimum, to join the Colorado Rockies for their 
inaugural season. During his last two years in the majors Murphy's batting 
average lingered well beneath baseball's Mendoza Line.[2] Murphy finished 
his career with 398 home runs (19th in MLB history at the time of his retirement) 
and a .265 lifetime batting average. His MVP awards in 1982 and 1983 make 
him one of only four outfielders in major league history with consecutive 
MVP years; at the time, he was the youngest to have accomplished the feat. 
His many honors also include seven All-Star appearances, five Gold Gloves, 
and four Silver Sluggers.[2] Murphy led the National League in home runs 
and RBI twice; he also led the major leagues in home runs and runs batted 
in over the 10-year span from 1981 to 1990. One of the most productive 
and decorated players of the 1980s, Murphy led the National League in games, 
at bats, runs, hits, extra base hits, RBIs, runs created, total bases, 
and plate appearances during the decade. He also accomplished a 30–30 (30 
home runs with 30 stolen bases) season in 1983.[2] Murphy played in 740 
consecutive games, at the time the 11th longest such streak in baseball 
history. His jersey number ("3") was retired by the Atlanta Braves on June 
13, 1994, in his honor as opposed to that of even Babe Ruth, who wore Boston 
Braves number 3 during the partial season with which his career concluded. 
Murphy was inducted into both the Oregon Sports Hall of Fame and the Georgia 
Sports Hall of Fame in 1997.[3][4] Murphy's clean-living habits off the 
diamond were frequently noted in the media. A devout Latter-day Saint (Mormon),[5] 
Murphy did not drink alcoholic beverages, would not allow women to be photographed 
embracing him, and paid his teammates' dinner checks as long as alcoholic 
beverages were not on the tab. He also refused to give television interviews 
unless he was fully dressed. Murphy had been introduced to that church 
early in his career by teammate Barry Bonnell. For several years the Atlanta 
Constitution ran a weekly column, wherein Murphy responded to young fans' 
questions and letters. In 1987 he shared Sports Illustrated magazine's 
"Sportsmen and Sportswomen of the Year" award with seven others, characterized 
as "Athletes Who Care", for his work with numerous charities, including 
the Make-a-Wish Foundation, the Georgia March of Dimes and the American 
Heart Association. One of his more memorable incidents was reminiscent 
of a scene from the classic black-and-white baseball film The Pride of 
the Yankees: Before a home game against San Francisco on June 12, 1983, 
Murphy visited in the stands with Elizabeth Smith, a six-year-old girl 
who had lost both hands and a leg when she stepped on a live power line. 
After Murphy gave her a cap and a T shirt, her nurse innocently asked if 
he could hit a home run for Elizabeth. "I didn't know what to say, so I 
just sort of mumbled 'Well, O.K.,' " says Murphy. That day he hit two homers 
and drove in all the Braves' runs in a 3–2 victory.[6] He was ultimately 
granted several honors because of his integrity, character, and sportsmanship 
including, Lou Gehrig Memorial Award (1985), "Sportsman of the Year" (1987), 
Roberto Clemente Award (1988), Bart Giamatti Community Service Award (1991), 
and World Sports Humanitarian Hall of Fame (1991 Induction). Despite his 
reputation as a true 5-tool superstar, multiple MVP awards, and humble, 
squeaky-clean persona, Murphy did not get elected to the Hall of Fame. 
He first appeared on the writers' ballot for the Baseball Hall of Fame 
in 1999, the earliest possible year of consideration. He has failed to 
gain election, joining late New York Yankees outfielder Roger Maris and 
recently eligibile Juan González as the only three Hall of Fame-eligible 
recipients of multiple MVP awards not in the Hall.[7] His failed candidacy 
has drawn particular notice due to his reputation as a clean-living player 
whose career was immediately followed by baseball's scandal-plagued "steroids 
era".[8][9][10] Baseball writer Rob Neyer feels that the former MVP's candidacy 
has been hurt by a career that "got a late start and suffered an early 
end."[11] Stuart Miller, baseball writer for the New York Times, also notes 
the "sharp decline" in production that plagued Murphy after the age of 
31 in arguing, "Players who were great for a short time do not receive 
much [Hall of Fame] recognition."[7] Finding "one of baseball's best players 
in the 1980s" to be "undervalued", Miller nonetheless writes that the Brave 
great "is typically considered a 'close but no' guy." Bill James, father 
of sabermetrics, says of Murphy, "It certainly wouldn't offend me to have 
him in the Hall of Fame. I just wouldn't advocate it." James' "current 
metric for Hall induction was 300 Win Shares (a complex mathematical equation 
weighing what players contribute to their team's [sic] victories)...." 
Murphy stands at 253 Win Shares. James ranks eight Hall of Famers below 
Murphy.[9] However, others contend, "Murphy's incredible nine-year run 
in Atlanta was every bit as good as anyone else during his era,"[12] with 
many pointing out the fact that he was a rare bright spot of many miserable 
Braves teams in the 1980s. Neyer notes that the explosion of power during 
the steroids-fueled era that began after Murphy's retirement may have caused 
Murphy's numbers to pale in comparison for many voters.[11] Some have argued 
that Murphy's reputation for clean living may encourage voters to "look 
more favorably on what Murphy did without using performance-enhancing drugs."[9] 
(Murphy weighed in on the steroids issue in asserting that career home 
run leader Barry Bonds "without a doubt" used performance-enhancing drugs.[13]) 
Sports Illustrated's Joe Posnanski has endorsed Murphy as an "emotional 
pick . . . a larger-than-life character who signed every autograph, spoke 
up for every charity and played brilliant baseball every day for mostly 
doomed teams."[14] Nonetheless, though he continued to earn the requisite 
5% to remain on the ballot, Murphy averaged only 13.6% over the first twelve 
years of voting.[2] (Election to the hall requires 75%.) In the first decade 
of his eligibility, he "peaked at 23% in 2000 and fell to 11.5% in 2009."[15] 
Moreover, as writers may only vote for ten players each year, some have 
argued that the candidacy of stars from the 1980s—such as Murphy, pitcher 
Jack Morris, and outfielder Tim Raines—will become imperiled as a wave 
of more recently retired players with more statistically impressive credentials 
becomes eligible in the 2010s.[16] Noting his low vote totals, Murphy has 
said, "Since I'm not that close [to election] ... I don't think about it 
that much."[10] On January 9, 2013, his 15th and final appearance on the 
Hall of Fame ballot, Murphy secured 18.9% of the vote, falling well short 
of the 75% necessary to enter the Baseball Hall of Fame on the BBWAA ballot.[17] 
From 1997 to 2000, Murphy served as president of the Massachusetts Boston 
Mission of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.[18] In 2005 
Murphy started a non-profit organization called the iWontCheat Foundation 
to promote ethical behavior, and deter steroid use and cheating in youth 
athletics.[19] Since 2008 all players from the participating teams at the 
Little League World Series wear the "I WON'T CHEAT!" embroidered patch 
above the Little League Baseball logo on the left sleeve of their jerseys.[20] 
In 2008, he was appointed to the National Advisory Board for the national 
children's charity Operation Kids. Murphy serves as a National Advisor 
to ASCEND: A Humanitarian Alliance.[21] Murphy is a long time supporter 
of Operation Smile and also currently serves on the organization's Board 
of Governors. For the 2012 MLB season, Murphy was a part of the Atlanta 
Braves TV broadcasting crew and participated in the telecast of at least 
14 games.[22] He was the 1st-base coach for the USA team in the 2013 World 
Baseball Classic.[23] He currently lives in Alpine, Utah.[citation needed] 
Murphy has written three books. The first, The Scouting Report on Professional 
Athletics, elaborates details of the professional athlete's lifestyle. 
Murphy discusses balancing career and family, working with agents, managing 
business affairs, serving one's community, and preparing for retirement. 
In his second book, an autobiography entitled Murph, he talked about his 
religious faith. He discussed the struggles of his early baseball career 
and how he overcame problems. In 2007 Murphy wrote his third book, The 
Scouting Report for Youth Athletics, in response to what he saw as the 
increase in negative behavior in youth sports resulting from poor examples 
set by professional athletes. Included with each book is a 50-page insert 
which includes contributions from, among others, Peyton Manning, Dwyane 
Wade, Tom Glavine, and Danica Patrick. In a question-and-answer format, 
they discuss the lessons they learned from youth sports and how they apply 
the lessons today. There is also a physician-penned section about illegal 
performance-enhancing drug use in sports. Murphy and his wife, Nancy, have 
8 children:[24] sons Chad, Travis, Shawn, Tyson, Taylor, Jake, and McKay 
