Dale A. Petroskey (born August 17, 1955) is the current President and CEO 
of the Dallas Regional Chamber. He is the former Executive Vice President 
of Marketing for the Texas Rangers baseball club, a former executive of 
the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum and the National Geographic 
Society, and a former political appointee in the administration of United 
States President Ronald Reagan. Petroskey graduated from Michigan State 
University in 1978, and worked in the White House from 1985 to March 1987 
as Assistant Press Secretary under Ronald Reagan. Before working for Reagan 
he was assistant press secretary for the Michigan House Republican caucus, 
then chief of staff for Representative William F. Goodling, a Republican 
from Pennsylvania. After serving Reagan he was assistant secretary of public 
affairs at the United States Department of Transportation under Secretary 
Elizabeth Dole. Then he served as a senior executive at the National Geographic 
Society from 1988 to 1999. Petroskey was elected to the Presidency of the 
National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum on June 15, 1999, and he resigned 
March 25, 2008. During his tenure as the President of the Hall, Petroskey 
was credited with expanding membership and fundraising, furthering educational 
efforts and outreach, and establishing a closer relationship with the business 
of baseball (which is to say, Major League Baseball itself) with which 
the Hall had not always been on the best of terms. Under his leadership, 
the Hall completed a major renovation and modernization, which was completed 
in 2005 at a cost of $20 million. He has also been credited for the Hall's 
recent initiatives to increase and further recognition of the contributions 
of Negro League players, managers, and executives, continuing an effort 
first broached by Hall of Famer --and Negro Leaguer-- Jackie Robinson. 
A five-year program resulted in the elevation of 17 Negro Leaguers to members 
of the Hall of Fame. In April 2003, one month after the start of the Iraq 
War, Petroskey caused a furor when he canceled an event meant to commemorate 
the 15th anniversary of the well-known 1988 baseball movie Bull Durham 
because of the anti-war stance of two of its stars, Tim Robbins and Susan 
Sarandon, fearing that they would use the event as a platform for their 
political views.[1] Petroskey, a former assistant press secretary in the 
Reagan administration, sent Robbins and Sarandon a letter that said: "We 
believe your very public criticism of President Bush at this important 
- and sensitive - time in our nation's history helps undermine the U.S. 
position, which ultimately could put our troops in even more danger." Robbins 
responded: "Long live democracy, free speech and the '69 Mets - all improbable, 
glorious miracles that I have always believed in." Many people, including 
well-known baseball figures like authors Roger Kahn and Jules Tygiel, were 
upset by what they saw as an attempt to punish political speech. Kahn canceled 
an appearance at the Hall and Tygiel called for Petroskey's resignation.[2][3] 
Bull Durham co-star Kevin Costner defended Robbins and Sarandon, saying, 
"I think Tim and Susan's courage is the type of courage that makes our 
democracy work... Pulling back this invite is against the whole principle 
about what we fight for and profess to be about." His resignation was tendered 
under pressure in March, 2008 for "fail[ing] to exercise proper fiduciary 
responsibility" while making "judgments that were not in the best interest 
of the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum."[4] Petroskey was replaced 
