The Dallas–Fort Worth–Arlington, TX Metropolitan Statistical Area, the 
official title designated by the United States Office of Management and 
Budget, encompasses 13 counties within the U.S. state of Texas. Residents 
of the area refer to it as the Dallas/Fort Worth Metroplex, DFW, or The 
Metroplex. It is the economic and cultural hub of the region commonly called 
North Texas or North Central Texas and is the largest inland metropolitan 
area in the United States.[3] The 2015 official estimate U.S. Census has 
the Dallas–Fort Worth Metroplex at 7,102,796,[4] making it the largest 
metropolitan area in the South. During the 12-month period from July 2008 
to July 2009, the Dallas–Fort Worth–Arlington metropolitan area gained 
146,530 new residents, more than any other metropolitan area in the United 
States.[5][6] The area's population has grown by about one million since 
the 2000 US census.[7] The Dallas–Fort Worth–Arlington MSA is, by population, 
the largest metropolitan area in Texas, the largest in the South, the fourth-largest 
in the United States, and the tenth-largest in the Americas. The metroplex 
encompasses 9,286 square miles (24,100 km2) of total area: 8,991 sq mi 
(23,290 km2) is land, while 295 sq mi (760 km2) is water, making it larger 
in area than the U.S. states of Rhode Island and Connecticut combined. 
It also has the fourth largest gross metropolitan product (GMP) in the 
United States,[8] and approximately tenth largest by GMP in the world. 
A portmanteau of metropolis and complex, the term metroplex is credited 
to Harve Chapman, an executive vice president with Dallas-based Tracy-Locke 
which was one of three advertising agencies that worked with the North 
Texas Commission (NTC) on strategies to market the region.[9] The NTC copyrighted[10] 
the term "Dallas/Fort Worth Metroplex" in 1972 as a replacement for the 
previously-ubiquitous "North Texas", which studies had shown lacked identifiability 
outside the state. In fact, only 38 percent of a survey group identified 
Dallas and Fort Worth as part of "North Texas", with the Texas Panhandle 
also a perceived correct answer, being the northernmost region of Texas.[11] 
Note: Cities and towns are categorized based on the latest population estimates 
from the North Central Texas Council of Governments (as of January 1, 2012).[13] 
No population estimates are released for census-designated places (CDPs), 
which are marked with an asterisk (*). These places are categorized based 
on their 2010 census population.[14] Places designated "principal cities" 
by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) are italicized.[12] 1,000,000+ 
500,000–999,999 200,000–499,999 100,000–199,999 As of the 2010 United States 
census,[15] there were 6,371,773 people. The racial makeup of the MSA was 
50.2% White, 15.4% African American, 0.6% Native American, 5.9% Asian, 
0.1% Pacific Islander, 10.0% from other races, and 2.4% from two or more 
races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 27.5% of the population. The 
median income for a household in the MSA was $48,062, and the median income 
for a family was $55,263. Males had a median income of $39,581 versus $27,446 
for females. The per capita income for the MSA was $21,839. The Dallas-Fort 
Worth, TX-OK Combined Statistical Area is made up of 20 counties in north 
central Texas and one county in southern Oklahoma. The statistical area 
includes two metropolitan areas and seven micropolitan areas. As of the 
2010 Census, the CSA had a population of 6,817,483 (though a July 1, 2015 
estimate placed the population at 7,504,362).[16] The CSA definition encompasses 
14,628 sq mi (37,890 km2) of area, of which 14,126 sq mi (36,590 km2) is 
land and 502 sq mi (1,300 km2) is water. Metropolitan Statistical Areas 
(MSAs) Micropolitan Statistical Areas (μSAs) Note: The Granbury micropolitan 
statistical area (Hood and Somervell counties) was made part of the Dallas–Fort 
Worth–Arlington, Texas Metropolitan Statistical Area effective 2013. As 
of the census[15] of 2000, there were 5,487,956 people, 2,006,665 households, 
and 1,392,540 families residing within the CSA. The racial makeup of the 
CSA was 70.41% White, 13.34% African American, 0.59% Native American, 3.58% 
Asian, 0.08% Pacific Islander, 9.62% from other races, and 2.39% from two 
or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 20.83% of the population. 
It is home to the fourth-largest Muslim population in the country.[17] 
The median income for a household in the CSA was $43,836, and the median 
income for a family was $50,898. Males had a median income of $37,002 versus 
$25,553 for females. The per capita income for the CSA was $20,460. The 
Metroplex overlooks mostly prairie land with a few rolling hills dotted 
by man-made lakes cut by streams, creeks and rivers surrounded by forest 
land. The Metroplex is situated in the Texas blackland prairies region, 
so named for its fertile black soil found especially in the rural areas 
of Collin, Dallas, Ellis, Hunt, Kaufman, and Rockwall counties. Many areas 
of Denton, Johnson, Parker, Tarrant, and Wise counties are located in the 
Fort Worth Prairie[18] region of North Texas, which has less fertile and 
more rocky soil than that of the Texas blackland prairie; most of the rural 
land on the Fort Worth Prairie is ranch land. A large onshore natural gas 
field, the Barnett Shale, lies underneath this area; Denton, Tarrant and 
Wise counties feature many natural gas wells. Continuing land use change 
results in scattered crop fields surrounded by residential or commercial 
development. South of Dallas and Fort Worth is a line of rugged hills that 
goes north to south about 15 miles (24 km) that looks similar to the Texas 
Hill Country 200 miles (320 km) to the south. The cities of Dallas and 
Fort Worth are the two central cities of the Metroplex, with Arlington 
being a third economically important city; it is a center for sporting 
events, tourism and manufacturing. Most other incorporated cities in the 
Metroplex are "bedroom communities" serving largely as residential and 
small-business centers, though there are several key employers in these 
regions. Due to the large number of smaller, less well-known cities, Metroplex 
residents commonly divide the region roughly in half along Texas Interstate 
I-35, which runs directly north-south near the Dallas-Tarrant county line. 
They refer to places as being on the "Dallas side" or the "Fort Worth side" 
of this line, or in "the Arlington area," which is almost directly south 
of the airport. It is nominally between the two major east-west interstates 
in the region (I-20, passing to the south of both downtowns, and I-30, 
connecting Dallas and Fort Worth city centers). Dallas and its suburbs 
have one of the highest concentrations of corporate headquarters in the 
United States. Business management and operations is a major part of the 
economy. The Metroplex also contains the largest Information Technology 
industry base in the state (often referred to as Silicon Prairie or the 
Telecom Corridor, especially when referring to US-75 through Richardson 
just north of Dallas itself). This area has a large number of corporate 
IT projects and the presence of numerous electronics, computing and telecommunication 
firms such as Texas Instruments, HP Enterprise Services, Dell Services, 
Nokia, i2, AT&T, Alcatel-Lucent, Ericsson, CA, Google, and Verizon in and 
around Dallas. On the other end of the business spectrum, and on the other 
side of the Metroplex, the Texas farming and ranching industry is based 
in Fort Worth. According to the Dallas Business Journal 's 2006 Book of 
Lists, American Airlines is the largest employer in the Metroplex. Several 
major defense manufacturers, including Lockheed Martin, Bell Helicopter 
Textron, and Raytheon, maintain significant operations in the Metroplex, 
primarily on the "Fort Worth side." They are concentrated along State Highway 
170 near I-35W, commonly called the "Alliance Corridor". ExxonMobil, the 
#2 corporation on the Fortune 500 listings, is headquartered in Irving, 
Texas, and Toyota of America announced final plans to relocate its corporate 
headquarters to the city of Plano, Texas. Changes in house prices for the 
Metroplex are publicly tracked on a regular basis using the Case–Shiller 
index; the statistic is published by Standard & Poor's and is also a component 
of S&P's 20-city composite index of the value of the U.S. residential real 
estate market. Since the late 20th century and the realignment of party 
affiliations, white conservatives have shifted to the Republican Party, 
and its national candidates have won in the Dallas-Fort Worth area, including 
in presidential elections. Democratic voters dominate a majority of areas 
in the city of Dallas. Republicans dominate North Dallas, Fort Worth and 
the rest of Tarrant County, most suburbs, and the rural areas of the Metroplex. 
The Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport (IATA airport code: DFW), located 
between the cities of Dallas and Fort Worth, is the largest and busiest 
airport in the state of Texas. At 100 square kilometres (39 sq mi) of total 
land area, DFW is the second-largest airport in the country and sixth-largest 
in the world. It is the third-busiest airport in the world in terms of 
aircraft movements and the seventh-busiest airport in the world in terms 
of passenger traffic, transporting 62.9 million passengers in FY 2014.[19] 
American Airlines, based in Fort Worth, has its headquarters adjacent to 
DFW Airport. American, which recently regained the title as largest airline 
in the world in terms of passengers transported and fleet size, is a predominant 
leader in domestic routes and operations.[20] Love Field Airport (IATA 
airport code: DAL) is located on the northwest side of the city of Dallas. 
Southwest Airlines is based in Dallas next to Love Field. Public transit 
options continue to expand significantly, however, it is limited in several 
outlying and rural suburbs. Dallas County and parts of Collin and Rockwall 
counties have bus service and light rail operated by Dallas Area Rapid 
Transit (DART), covering thirteen member cities. With the completion of 
projects under construction, DART's rail network will grow beyond 93 miles 
of track by 2016. The Red Line extends north to Plano and southwest to 
Westmoreland Road. The Blue Line reaches from Rowlett in the northeast 
to Ledbetter Road in south Dallas (with an additional 3 miles south to 
the University of North Texas at Dallas campus near I-20 scheduled to open 
in 2016). The 28-mile Green Line, which opened in December 2010, connects 
Carrollton in the northwest through Downtown Dallas to Pleasant Grove in 
the southeast. The Orange Line, which completed expansion in 2014, parallels 
the Red Line from Plano to Downtown Dallas and the Green Line from Downtown 
Dallas to Northwest Hwy extending through Las Colinas (Irving) to reach 
DFW International Airport. Denton County has bus service limited to Denton, 
Highland Village, and Lewisville (with commuter service to downtown Dallas) 
provided by the Denton County Transportation Authority (DCTA). The A-train, 
a diesel commuter rail line, parallels I-35E to connect Denton, Highland 
Village, Lewisville, and Carrollton. Several smaller towns along this line, 
Corinth, Shady Shores, and Lake Dallas, voted to abstain from DCTA and 
do not have stations. There is an across-the-platform transfer in Carrollton 
to the DART Green Line. A-Train service began June 20, 2011.[21] Tarrant 
County has bus service operated by the Fort Worth Transportation Authority 
(known as 'The T'), available only in Fort Worth. The diesel commuter train 
that serves Fort Worth and its eastern suburbs is operated as the Trinity 
Railway Express; it connects downtown Fort Worth to downtown Dallas, where 
it links to the DART light rail system. A station near its midpoint, Centerport, 
serves DFW Airport via a free airport shuttle bus. The TRE is jointly owned 
by FWTA and DART.[22] Amtrak serves Dallas and Fort Worth once daily in 
each direction on a route from Chicago to Austin to San Antonio, with connections 
at San Antonio to New Orleans, Houston, El Paso, Phoenix, and Los Angeles. 
The Dallas-Fort Worth area has thousands of lane-miles of freeways and 
interstates. The Metroplex has the second-largest number of freeway-miles 
per capita in the nation, behind only the Kansas City Metropolitan Area. 
As in most major metropolitan areas in Texas, most interstates and freeways 
have access or frontage roads where most of the businesses are located; 
these access roads have slip ramps allowing traffic to transition between 
the freeway and access road. North-south interstates include I-35 and I-45. 
East-west routes include I-30 and I-20. I-35 splits into I-35E and I-35W 
from Denton to Hillsboro: I-35W goes through Fort Worth while I-35E goes 
through Dallas. (This is one of only two examples of an interstate splitting 
off into branches and then rejoining as one; the other such split is in 
Minneapolis-St. Paul where I-35E goes into St. Paul and I-35W goes through 
Minneapolis.) I-30 connects Dallas and Fort Worth, and I-45 connects Dallas 
to Houston. The "multiple-of-5" numbers used for the interstate designations 
are notable, as these numbers were designed to be used for major multi-state 
arteries of the U.S. Interstate Highway System. The North Texas region 
is the terminus for two of them, and I-45 is located only within Texas. 
HOV lanes exist along I-35E, I-30, I-635, US 67, and US 75. I-20 bypasses 
both Dallas and Fort Worth to the south while its loop, I-820, goes around 
Fort Worth. I-635 splits to the north of I-20 and loops around east and 
north Dallas, ending at SH 121 north of DFW Airport. I-35E, Loop 12, and 
Spur 408 ultimately connect to I-20 southwest of Dallas, completing the 
west bypass loop around Dallas. A large number of construction projects 
are planned or are already underway in the region to alleviate congestion. 
Due largely to funding issues, many of the new projects involve building 
new tollways or adding tolled express lanes to existing highways, which 
are managed by the North Texas Tollway Authority. It was originally established 
to manage the Dallas North Tollway and oversees several other toll projects 
in the area.[citation needed] As of 2016 the Taiwanese airline EVA Air 
operates a shuttle bus service from George Bush Intercontinental Airport 
in Houston to Richardson, so that Dallas-based customers may fly on its 
services to and from Houston.[23] The cities of Dallas and Fort Worth have 
their own newspapers, The Dallas Morning News and the Fort Worth Star-Telegram, 
respectively. Historically, the two papers had readership primarily in 
their own counties.[citation needed] As the two cities' suburbs have grown 
together in recent years (and especially since the demise of the Dallas 
Times Herald in 1991), many sites sell both papers. This pattern of crossover 
has been repeated in other print media, radio, and television. Since the 
1970s all of the television stations and most of the FM radio stations 
have chosen to transmit from Cedar Hill so as to serve the entire market, 
and are programmed likewise. There has been a rise in "80–90 move-ins", 
whereby stations have been moved from distant markets, in some cases as 
far away as Oklahoma, and relicensed to anonymous small towns in the Metroplex 
to serve as additional DFW stations. According to RadioTime, the market 
has 38 AM stations, 58 FM stations (many of them class Cs), and 18 full-power 
television stations. Dallas-Fort Worth is the fifth-largest television 
market in the United States, behind only New York City, Los Angeles, Chicago, 
and Philadelphia. Two Metroplex AM radio stations, 820 WBAP and 1080 KRLD, 
are 50,000-watt stations with coverage of much of the North American continent 
and beyond during nighttime hours. The South Asian population (Indian Sub-continent) 
has increased considerably in the DFW metroplex. They have the FM 104.9 
radio channel and 700 AM radio.[24] Recently Sony TV, a subsidiary of Sony 
TV Asia, launched its FTA (free to Air OTA) channel on 44.2 station in 
DFW. It was one of the two locations they chose in USA; the other being 
NYC, where there is also a large South Asian demographic. See Also: The 
Metroplex is one of the twelve American metropolitan areas that has a team 
in each of the four major professional sports leagues. Major professional 
sports first came to the area in 1960, when the Dallas Cowboys began competing 
in the National Football League and the Dallas Texans began competing in 
the American Football League. (The Texans later relocated to Kansas City 
and become the Chiefs). In 1972, Major League Baseball's Washington Senators 
moved to Arlington to become the Texas Rangers, named after the statewide 
law enforcement agency. The National Basketball Association expanded into 
North Texas in 1980 when the Dallas Mavericks were added to the league. 
The fourth sport was added in 1993 when the Minnesota North Stars of the 
National Hockey League moved to Dallas, becoming the Dallas Stars. The 
Major League Soccer team FC Dallas is based in Frisco, and the Dallas Wings 
of the WNBA play in Arlington. The area is also home to many minor-league 
professional teams, and four colleges that compete in NCAA Division I athletics. 
The Metroplex has hosted many premiere sports events on both an annual 
and one-time basis. ^- Indicates year team relocated to the area ^- Indicates 
year team relocated to the area The headquarters for both the Big 12 and 
Conference USA are located in Irving, and the Southland Conference headquarters 
are in Frisco. Note: Venues are listed with their current names, not necessarily 
