As player As manager George Dallas Green (born August 4, 1934) is a former 
pitcher, manager, and executive in Major League Baseball. After playing 
for the Philadelphia Phillies and two other teams, he went on to manage 
the Phillies, the New York Yankees, and the New York Mets, and managed 
the Phillies when they won their first World Series title in 1980. Green 
had a losing record both as a pitcher and as a manager. Nonetheless, in 
1983, he was inducted into the Delaware Sports Museum and Hall of Fame. 
He achieved notoriety for his blunt manner. Green was born in Newport, 
Delaware. A 1952 graduate of Conrad High School his nickname was Spider. 
After attending the University of Delaware, he was signed by the Phillies 
as an amateur free agent by scout Jocko Collins. As a manager, Green was 
known for his gruff manner. "I'm a screamer, a yeller and a cusser. I never 
hold back", he said.[1] He was notorious for his use of profanity.[2] An 
example of the way that Green had of speaking to the press about ballplayers 
was his comment about Scott Rolen in 2001: "Scotty's satisfied with being 
a so-so player. I think he can be greater, but his personality won't let 
him."[3] Rolen would be elected to the All-Star team seven times and win 
eight Gold Glove Awards. After his playing days ended, Green joined the 
Phillies front office. In 1979, he was appointed manager of the Phillies, 
replacing Danny Ozark.[4] His difficult manner led to clashes with many 
of the team's star players, such as slugger Greg Luzinski (who likened 
him to the Gestapo), shortstop Larry Bowa and catcher Bob Boone, both Gold 
Glove winners. He even came to blows with relief pitcher Ron Reed. Still, 
in 1980 the team won the World Series. After the Tribune Company bought 
the Chicago Cubs from the Wrigley family in 1981, the company hired Green 
away from the Phillies after the 1981 season as executive vice president 
and general manager. His presence was quickly felt in the organization, 
as his slogan "Building a New Tradition" was a jab at the Cubs' history 
of losing. He hired a number of coaches and scouts away from the Phillies, 
such as Lee Elia (Green's first manager and college roommate at Delaware), 
John Vukovich (who remained on the Cubs' staff throughout Green's tenure), 
and Gordon Goldsberry (the team's director of player development). Green 
also made some trades with the Phillies, acquiring players such as Keith 
Moreland, Dan Larson, and Dickie Noles. His best trade came during that 
first offseason when Green sent Iván DeJesús to the Phillies for shortstop 
Larry Bowa and a minor league infielder named Ryne Sandberg. It proved 
to be one of the most one-sided trades in baseball history. Bowa was the 
Cubs' starting shortstop for three seasons, and Sandberg blossomed into 
a star, being inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 2005. Green continued 
to build the Cubs between the 1982 and 1987 seasons. After acquiring left 
fielder Gary Matthews and center fielder Bob Dernier from Philadelphia 
before the 1984 season, Green's Cubs became serious contenders for the 
first time in more than a decade. During the 1984 season, Green made a 
few more moves, most notably acquiring right-handed pitcher Dennis Eckersley 
from the Boston Red Sox for popular first baseman Bill Buckner in late 
May, and sending Cubs' prospects Mel Hall and Joe Carter to the Cleveland 
Indians for relief pitcher George Frazier, backup catcher Ron Hassey and 
right-handed pitcher Rick Sutcliffe in mid-June. Sutcliffe went 16-1 with 
the Cubs that season to lead the Cubs to the National League East title—their 
first postseason appearance of any kind since the 1945 World Series. Because 
Green neglected to renew waivers on Hall and Carter, the status of the 
trade was in doubt for a while, and the two did not play for a week. Green's 
first-year manager Jim Frey (who managed the Kansas City Royals against 
Green in 1980) won NL Manager of the Year, Sutcliffe won the NL Cy Young 
Award, and Sandberg won the NL Most Valuable Player Award. Green captured 
Executive of the Year honors. The Cubs' strong season was enough for Green 
to win a power struggle within the Cubs front office; he was promoted to 
team president, replacing Jim Finks, who resigned to take a job with the 
New Orleans Saints of the National Football League. The Cubs struggled 
in 1985 and 1986, and they finished last in 1987. In 1987, Green fired 
manager Gene Michael over Labor Day weekend, blasted his team for quitting 
in an interview with the Chicago Tribune, and then resigned as general 
manager and president of the Cubs in October 1987 citing "philosophical 
differences" with Tribune Company executives. Green was the first Cubs 
executive to clash with the City of Chicago over lights in Wrigley Field. 
Green was a strong proponent of lights from the start of his tenure, but 
a city ordinance prohibited the Cubs from installing lights in the residential 
Lakeview neighborhood, where Wrigley Field was located. As Green saw it, 
the issue was not lights or no lights, but Wrigley Field or move to the 
suburbs. Bluntly stating that "if there are no lights in Wrigley Field, 
there will be no Wrigley Field," he threatened to move the Cubs to a new 
stadium in northwest suburban Schaumburg or Arlington Heights. He also 
seriously considered shutting down Wrigley Field for a year and playing 
at Comiskey Park as tenants of the White Sox, in hopes that the loss of 
revenue would temper or eliminate neighborhood opposition. Green's stance 
changed the context of the debate, as even the staunchest opponents of 
installing lights did not want to be held responsible for the Cubs leaving 
town. Shortly before Green's departure, the Chicago City Council and Mayor 
Harold Washington (who died a week later) approved a change to the ordinance, 
allowing the Cubs to install lights in 1988. Green also rebuilt the Cubs' 
farm system with Goldsberry, developing stars like Shawon Dunston, Greg 
Maddux, Rafael Palmeiro, Jamie Moyer, and Mark Grace. The Cubs won a division 
title in 1989. His managerial record is 454–478, a .487 winning percentage.[5] 
With the Phillies (1979–81), he was over .500 with a record of 169–130.[5] 
The team won the World Series in 1980, but the team fell to the 3rd best 
record in the division the following season. Pat Corrales replaced Green 
for the 1982 season. With the Yankees (1989), he was also under .500 at 
56–65 (.463).[5] The team had finished 9 games over .500 the prior year, 
but fell to 9 games under .500 during Green's tenure. Green insulted George 
Steinbrenner by referring to him as "Manager George." [1] With the Mets 
(1993–96), he was under .500 at 229–283 (.447).[5] Bobby Valentine replaced 
Green in 1996. Currently, he is a Senior Advisor to the General Manager 
for the Phillies. Green's nine-year-old granddaughter, Christina Taylor-Green, 
was killed in the 2011 Tucson shooting that critically wounded Rep. Gabrielle 
Giffords. Her interest in government prompted a neighbor to take her to 
the event with the congresswoman. Green, after receiving the news of his 
granddaughter's death, said that this was the worst thing that has ever 
happened to his family.[6][7] His son, John Green, is a supervisor of amateur 
scouts (east coast) and is currently working for the Los Angeles Dodgers.[8][9] 
