Damn Yankees is a musical comedy with a book by George Abbott and Douglass 
Wallop, music and lyrics by Richard Adler and Jerry Ross. The story is 
a modern retelling of the Faust legend set during the 1950s in Washington, 
D.C., during a time when the New York Yankees dominated Major League Baseball. 
It is based on Wallop's novel The Year the Yankees Lost the Pennant. The 
show ran for 1,019 performances in its original 1955 Broadway production. 
Adler and Ross's success with it and The Pajama Game seemed to point to 
a bright future for them, but Ross suddenly died of chronic bronchiectasis, 
at the age of twenty-nine, a few months after it opened. The producers 
Frederick Brisson, Robert E. Griffith and Harold S. Prince[1] had decided 
that the lead actress for the part of "Lola" had to be a dancer. They offered 
the role to both the movie actress Mitzi Gaynor and ballet dancer Zizi 
Jeanmaire, each of whom turned down the role. Although Gwen Verdon had 
sung just one song in her previous show (Can-Can), the producers were willing 
to take a chance on her. She initially refused, preferring to assist another 
choreographer, but finally agreed. Choreographer Bob Fosse insisted on 
meeting her before working with her, and after meeting and working for 
a brief time, they each agreed to the arrangement.[2] The show opened on 
Broadway at the 46th Street Theatre on May 5, 1955, transferred to the 
Adelphi Theatre on May 17, 1957, and ran for a total of 1,019 performances. 
It was directed by George Abbott, with scenery and costumes by William 
and Jean Eckart, dances and musical numbers staged by Bob Fosse, musical 
direction by Hal Hastings, orchestrations by Don Walker, and dance music 
arrangements by Roger Adams. The show starred Ray Walston (Applegate), 
Gwen Verdon (Lola), Shannon Bolin (Meg), Robert Shafer (Joe Boyd), Elizabeth 
Howell (Doris), Stephen Douglass (Joe Hardy), Al Lanti (Henry), Eddie Phillips 
(Sohovik), Nathaniel Frey (Smokey), Albert Linville (Vernon, Postmaster), 
Russ Brown (Van Buren), Jimmy Komack (Rocky), Rae Allen (Gloria), Cherry 
Davis (Teenager), Del Horstmann (Lynch, Commissioner), Richard Bishop (Welch), 
Janie Janvier (Miss Weston), and Jean Stapleton (Sister). A West End production 
played at the London Coliseum beginning on March 28, 1957, where it played 
for 258 performances.[3] It starred Olympic skater Belita (née Gladys Lyne 
Jepson-Turner) as Lola, but the Fosse choreography was alien to her style, 
and she was soon replaced by Elizabeth Seal.[4] It also starred Bill Kerr 
as Applegate, and Ivor Emmanuel as Joe Hardy. In the mid-1970s, Vincent 
Price starred as Applegate in summer stock productions of the show. In 
the late 1970s and early 1980s film actor Van Johnson did so in productions 
throughout the U.S.A. In July, 1981, a production was performed at the 
Jones Beach Marine Theater in Wantagh, New York. It was notable due to 
former New York Jets quarterback Joe Namath being cast in the role of Joe 
Boyd.[5] A Broadway revival opened at the Marquis Theatre on March 3, 1994 
and ran for 718 performances and 18 previews. Featured were Bebe Neuwirth 
as Lola and Victor Garber as Applegate. Garber was succeeded by Jerry Lewis, 
making his Broadway debut, on March 12, 1995,[6] who then starred in a 
national tour and also played the role in a London production. Jack O'Brien 
directed, with choreography by Rob Marshall, assisted by his sister, Kathleen. 
O'Brien is also credited with revisions to the book.[7] The 1994 revival 
production opened in the West End at the Adelphi Theatre on June 4, 1997 
(previews started May 29) and closed on August 9, 1997. Jerry Lewis reprised 
his role as Applegate.[8] A revival was produced by the City Center Encores! 
Summer Stars series from July 5 to July 27, 2008. It starred Jane Krakowski 
as Lola, Sean Hayes as Applegate, Randy Graff as Meg, Megan Lawrence as 
Gloria Thorpe (replacing an injured Ana Gasteyer during rehearsal), PJ 
Benjamin as Joe Boyd, and Cheyenne Jackson as Joe Hardy. John Rando directed 
and the original Fosse choreography was reproduced by Mary MacLeod. Given 
the substantial changes in the 1994 revival, this is considered by some 
the first authentic revival of the original production.[9] Note: This is 
the plot of the 1994 Broadway revival of the show; there are differences 
from the 1955 version. For the film version, see Damn Yankees (film). Middle-aged 
real estate agent Joe Boyd is a long-suffering fan of the pathetic Washington 
Senators baseball team. His wife, Meg, laments this ("Six Months Out Of 
Every Year"). After she has gone to bed, he sits up late, grumbling that 
if the Senators just had a "long ball hitter" they could beat the "damn 
Yankees." "I'd sell my soul for a long ball hitter", he laments. Suddenly, 
"Applegate" appears. He looks like a slick salesman, but he is really the 
Devil, and he offers Joe exactly that deal: if he gives up his soul, he 
will become "Joe Hardy", the young slugger the Senators need. He accepts, 
even though he must leave Meg ("Goodbye Old Girl"). However, his business 
sense makes him insist on an escape clause. The Senators' last game is 
on September 25, and if he plays in it, he is "in for the duration." If 
not, he has until 9:00 the night before to walk away from the deal and 
return to his normal life. At the ballpark, the hapless Senators vow to 
play their best despite their failings ("Heart"). Then Joe Hardy is suddenly 
discovered and joins the team. Gloria, a reporter, praises him ("Shoeless 
Joe from Hannibal, Mo"). His hitting prowess enables the team to move up 
the standings. Though Joe is increasingly successful, he truly misses Meg 
and moves into her house as a boarder in his persona as Joe Hardy. They 
begin to bond, especially over her "lost" husband ("A Man Doesn't Know"). 
Fearful of losing his deal, Applegate calls Lola, "the best homewrecker 
on [his] staff", to seduce Joe and ensure his damnation. She promises to 
deliver ("A Little Brains, A Little Talent"), and Applegate introduces 
her as a sultry South American dancer named "Señorita Lolita Banana." She 
sings a seductive song ("Whatever Lola Wants"), but Joe's devotion to Meg 
proves too strong, even for her. Applegate punishes her by sending her 
to Hell, where she performs with other damned souls ("Who's Got the Pain"). 
Applegate decides to switch tactics to ensure Joe's failure. He releases 
false information about Joe's true identity being "Shifty McCoy", an escaped 
criminal and con artist. When Gloria discovers this information, she presses 
charges, and he is forced into court. The Senators prepare for the final 
game against the Yankees for the pennant and worry about Joe, but they 
vow to think of nothing but winning ("The Game"). Meanwhile, angry fans 
are seeking him out, so he decides to leave home. As he does so, he tells 
Meg indirectly that he is her old husband ("Near to You"). Meanwhile, Applegate 
is exhausted by the work he has put into collecting one soul and thinks 
about the "simpler" times in his long history ("Those Were the Good Old 
Days"). Joe's day in court is on September 24, the last day of his deal. 
As he technically does not exist, he can't produce any kind of identification. 
The owner of the Senators, their coach, and even Lola (disguised as "Señora 
McCoy") testify; unfortunately, their opinions are invalid. Gloria suggests 
that Applegate take the stand, but he is unable to take the oath due to 
its provision against lying. "Don't you have another version of that thing?" 
he asks. Joe realizes that Applegate is simply stalling to keep him from 
meeting his 9:00 deadline. Applegate claims that Joe "just needs time to 
think" and sends him to the lower levels of Hell, where history's most 
famous lovers wait. Lola meets him there and realizes that he truly loves 
Meg. She helps him by sending him into the final game and delays Applegate 
by coercing him into a duet ("Two Lost Souls"). When Applegate finally 
arrives at the game, it is 8:55, and Joe is at bat. As time runs out, Meg, 
her friends, and even Lola begin cheering for him. Applegate uses his powers 
to give Joe two strikes. The clock strikes nine, and Applegate claims victory, 
but at the last second, Joe cries, "Let me go!" The deal is broken, and 
he is transformed back into his old self. Amazingly, he is still able to 
hit a home run and win the Senators the pennant. Back at home, Joe rushes 
into Meg's arms. Applegate appears on the scene, claiming that Joe owes 
him his soul. He begs Meg to hold him and not let go, and she begins to 
sing ("A Man Doesn't Know Reprise"). Applegate promises to make him young 
again and even ensure a World Series victory. But his powers are useless 
against their true love, which Lola points out. He shouts that such a thing 
can't exist, but he is wrong. He and Lola vanish back into Hell, defeated, 
with Joe and Meg united. (The original Broadway version also had a children's 
chorus who sang the reprise of "Heart") The 1955 Original Broadway Cast 
recording is on RCA Victor, recorded May 8, 1955. The LP was originally 
issued in mono but in 1965 RCA Victor offered an electronic stereo version. 
The current CD edition was released in 1988.[11] RCA Victor also released 
the film soundtrack in 1958. Although recorded in stereo, only the mono 
version was released. The 1989 CD edition marked the first release of the 
recording in stereo. The 1994 Broadway revival cast recording made by Mercury 
(and now on the Decca Broadway label) was released on May 17, 1994. A film 
version, directed by George Abbott and Stanley Donen, was released in 1958. 
With the exception of Tab Hunter in the role of Joe Hardy (replacing Stephen 
Douglass), the Broadway principals reprised their stage roles. It is very 
similar to the stage version. A made-for-TV movie version was broadcast 
on April 8, 1967 on NBC. Phil Silvers played Applegate. Also starring were 
Lee Remick as Lola and Ray Middleton as Joe Boyd. It has been announced 
that a new contemporary film adaptation of the musical will star Jim Carrey 
