Alfred Damon Runyon (October 4, 1880[1][2] – December 10, 1946) was an 
American newspaperman and short story writer.[3] He was best known for 
his short stories celebrating the world of Broadway in New York City that 
grew out of the Prohibition era. To New Yorkers of his generation, a "Damon 
Runyon character" evoked a distinctive social type from the Brooklyn or 
Midtown demi-monde. The adjective "Runyonesque" refers to this type of 
character as well as to the type of situations and dialog that Runyon depicted.[4] 
He spun humorous and sentimental tales of gamblers, hustlers, actors, and 
gangsters, few of whom go by "square" names, preferring instead colorful 
monikers such as "Nathan Detroit", "Benny Southstreet", "Big Jule", "Harry 
the Horse", "Good Time Charley", "Dave the Dude", or "The Seldom Seen Kid". 
His distinctive vernacular style is known as "Runyonese": a mixture of 
formal speech and colorful slang, almost always in present tense, and always 
devoid of contractions. He is credited with coining the phrase "Hooray 
Henry", a term now used in British English to describe an upper-class, 
loud-mouthed, arrogant twit. Runyon's fictional world is also known to 
the general public through the musical Guys and Dolls based on two of his 
stories, "The Idyll of Miss Sarah Brown" and "Blood Pressure".[5] The musical 
additionally borrows characters and story elements from a few other Runyon 
stories, most notably "Pick The Winner". The film Little Miss Marker (and 
its two remakes, Sorrowful Jones and the 1980 Little Miss Marker) grew 
from his short story of the same name. Runyon was also a well-known newspaper 
reporter, covering sports and general news for decades for various publications 
and syndicates owned by William Randolph Hearst. Already famous for his 
fiction, he wrote a well-remembered "present tense" article on Franklin 
Delano Roosevelt's Presidential inauguration in 1933 for the Universal 
Service, a Hearst syndicate, which was merged with the co-owned International 
News Service in 1937. Damon Runyon was born Alfred Damon Runyan to Alfred 
Lee and Elizabeth (Damon) Runyan.[6] His relatives in Manhattan, Kansas 
included several newspapermen.[7] His grandfather was a newspaper printer 
from New Jersey who had relocated to Manhattan, Kansas in 1855, and his 
father was editor of his own newspaper in the town. In 1882 Runyon's father 
was forced to sell his newspaper, and the family moved westward. The family 
eventually settled in Pueblo, Colorado in 1887, where Runyon spent the 
rest of his youth. By most accounts, he attended school only through the 
fourth grade.[8] He began to work in the newspaper trade under his father 
in Pueblo. In present-day Pueblo, Runyon Field, the Damon Runyon Repertory 
Theater Company, and Runyon Lake are named in his honor. In 1898, when 
still in his teens, Runyon enlisted in the U.S. Army to fight in the Spanish–American 
War. While in the service, he was assigned to write for the Manila Freedom 
and Soldier's Letter. After his military service, he worked for various 
Colorado newspapers, beginning in Pueblo. His first job as a reporter was 
in September 1900, when he was hired by the Pueblo Star;[9] he then worked 
in the Rocky Mountain area during the first decade of the 1900s: at the 
Denver Daily News, he served as "sporting editor" (what would today be 
called "sports editor") and then worked as a staff writer. His expertise 
was in covering the semi-professional teams in Colorado; he even briefly 
managed a semi-pro team in Trinidad, Colorado.[10] At one of the newspapers 
where he worked, the spelling of his last name was changed from "Runyan" 
to "Runyon", a change he let stand. After a notable failure in trying to 
organize a Colorado minor baseball league, which lasted less than a week,[11] 
Runyon moved to New York City in 1910. In his first New York byline, the 
American editor dropped the "Alfred" and the name "Damon Runyon" appeared 
for the first time. For the next ten years he covered the New York Giants 
and professional boxing for the New York American. He was the Hearst newspapers' 
baseball columnist for many years, beginning in 1911, and his knack for 
spotting the eccentric and the unusual, on the field or in the stands, 
is credited with revolutionizing the way baseball was covered. Perhaps 
as confirmation, Runyon was inducted into the writers' wing (the J. G. 
Taylor Spink Award) of the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1967. He is also a 
member of the International Boxing Hall Of Fame and is known for dubbing 
heavyweight champion James J. Braddock, the "Cinderella Man". Runyon frequently 
contributed sports poems to the American on boxing and baseball themes, 
and also wrote numerous short stories and essays. If I have all the tears 
that are shed on Broadway by guys in love, I will have enough salt water 
to start an opposition ocean to the Atlantic and Pacific, with enough left 
over to run the Great Salt Lake out of business. But I wish to say I never 
shed any of these tears personally, because I am never in love, and furthermore, 
barring a bad break, I never expect to be in love, for the way I look at 
it love is strictly the old phedinkus, and I tell the little guy as much. 
One year, while covering spring training in Texas, he met Pancho Villa 
in a bar and later accompanied the unsuccessful American expedition into 
Mexico searching for Villa. It was while he was in Mexico that he met the 
young girl whom he eventually married. Gambling, particularly on craps 
or horse races, was a common theme of Runyon's works, and he was a notorious 
gambler himself. One of his paraphrases from a well-known line in Ecclesiastes 
ran: "The race is not always to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, 
but that's how the smart money bets." A heavy drinker as a young man, he 
seems to have quit drinking soon after arriving in New York, after his 
drinking nearly cost him the courtship of the woman who became his first 
wife, Ellen Egan. He remained a heavy smoker. His best friend was mobster 
accountant Otto Berman, and he incorporated Berman into several of his 
stories under the alias "Regret, the horse player". When Berman was killed 
in a hit on Berman's boss, Dutch Schultz, Runyon quickly assumed the role 
of damage control for his deceased friend, correcting erroneous press releases 
(including one that stated Berman was one of Schultz's gunmen, to which 
Runyon replied, "Otto would have been as effective a bodyguard as a two-year-old."). 
Runyon's marriage to Ellen Egan produced two children (Mary and Damon, 
Jr.), but broke up in 1928 over rumors that Runyon had become infatuated 
with Patrice Amati del Grande, a Mexican woman he had first met while covering 
the Pancho Villa raids in 1916 and discovered once again in New York, when 
she called the American seeking him out. Runyon had promised her in Mexico 
that if she would complete the education he paid for her, he would find 
her a dancing job in New York. She became his companion after he separated 
from his wife. After Ellen Runyon died of the effects of her own drinking 
problems, Runyon and del Grande married; that marriage ended in 1946 when 
she left him for a younger man. Runyon died in New York City from throat 
cancer in late 1946, at age 66. His body was cremated, and his ashes were 
illegally scattered from a DC-3 airplane over Broadway in Manhattan by 
Captain Eddie Rickenbacker on December 18, 1946.[12] The family plot of 
Damon Runyon is located at Woodlawn Cemetery in The Bronx, New York. Frank 
Muir comments[18] that Runyon's plots were, in the manner of O. Henry, 
neatly constructed with professionally wrought endings, but their distinction 
lay in the manner of their telling, as the author invented a peculiar argot 
for his characters to speak. Runyon almost totally avoids the past tense 
(English humourist E.C. Bentley thought there was only one instance, and 
was willing to "lay plenty of 6 to 5 that it is nothing but a misprint"[19] 
but "was" appears in the short stories "The Lily of St Pierre"[20] and 
"A Piece of Pie";[21] "had" appears in "The Lily of St Pierre",[20] "Undertaker 
Song"[22] and "Bloodhounds of Broadway"[23]), and makes little use of the 
future tense, using the present for both. He also avoided the conditional, 
using instead the future indicative in situations that would normally require 
conditional. An example: "Now most any doll on Broadway will be very glad 
indeed to have Handsome Jack Madigan give her a tumble" (Guys and Dolls, 
"Social error"). E. C. Bentley[24] comments that "there is a sort of ungrammatical 
purity about it [Runyon's resolute avoidance of the past tense], an almost 
religious exactitude." There is an homage to Runyon that makes use of this 
peculiarity ("Chronic Offender" by Spider Robinson) which involves a time 
machine and a man going by the name "Harry the Horse". He uses many slang 
terms (which go unexplained in his stories), such as: There are many recurring 
composite phrases such as: E. C. Bentley notes[25] that Runyon's "telling 
use of the recurrent phrase and fixed epithet" demonstrates a debt to Homer. 
Runyon's stories also employ occasional rhyming slang, similar to the cockney 
variety but native to New York (e.g.: "Miss Missouri Martin makes the following 
crack one night to her: 'Well, I do not see any Simple Simon on your lean 
and linger.' This is Miss Missouri Martin's way of saying she sees no diamond 
on Miss Billy Perry's finger." (from "Romance in the Roaring Forties")). 
The comic effect of his style results partly from the juxtaposition of 
broad slang with mock-pomposity. Women, when not "dolls", "Judies", "pancakes", 
"tomatoes", or "broads", may be "characters of a female nature", for example. 
He typically avoided contractions such as "don't" in the example above, 
which also contributes significantly to the humorously pompous effect. 
In one sequence, a gangster tells another character to do as he is told, 
or else "find another world in which to live". Runyon's short stories are 
told in the first person by a protagonist who is never named, and whose 
role is unclear; he knows many gangsters and does not appear to have a 
job, but he does not admit to any criminal involvement, and seems to be 
largely a bystander. He describes himself as "being known to one and all 
as a guy who is just around".[26] There are many collections of Runyon's 
stories: in particular Runyon on Broadway and Runyon from First to Last 
between them provide extensive coverage. The latter is claimed to contain[27] 
all of Runyon's stories (i.e. fiction) not included in Runyon on Broadway. 
In fact, there are two Broadway stories originally published in Collier's 
Weekly but not included in either collection: "Maybe a Queen"[28] and "Leopard's 
Spots",[29] both collected in More Guys And Dolls (1950). Runyon on Broadway 
contains the following stories, all of which are Broadway stories written 
in Runyonese: More Than Somewhat Furthermore Runyon from First to Last 
includes the following stories and sketches: The First Stories (early non-Broadway 
stories): Stories à la Carte (Broadway stories written in Runyonese): The 
Last Stories (Broadway stories written in Runyonese): Written in Sickness 
(sketches): Twenty of his stories became motion pictures.[30] The Damon 
Runyon Theater radio series dramatized 52 of Runyon's short stories in 
weekly broadcasts running from October 1948 to September 1949 (with reruns 
until 1951).[32][33] The series was produced by Alan Ladd's Mayfair Transcription 
Company for syndication to local radio stations. John Brown played the 
character "Broadway", who doubled as host and narrator. The cast also comprised 
Alan Reed, Luis Van Rooten, Joseph Du Val, Gerald Mohr, Frank Lovejoy, 
Herb Vigran, Sheldon Leonard, William Conrad, Jeff Chandler, Lionel Stander, 
Sidney Miller, Olive Deering and Joe De Santis. Pat O'Brien was initially 
engaged for the role of "Broadway". The original stories were adapted for 
the radio by Russell Hughes. "Broadway's New York had a crisis each week, 
though the streets had a rose-tinged aura", wrote radio historian John 
Dunning. "The sad shows then were all the sadder; plays like For a Pal 
had a special poignance. The bulk of Runyon's work had been untapped by 
radio, and the well was deep."[34]:189 Damon Runyon Theatre aired on CBS-TV 
from 1955 to 1956. Mike McShane told Runyon stories as monologues on British 
TV in 1994, and an accompanying book was released, both called Broadway 
