Daniel Edward "Dan" Gutman (born October 19, 1955) is an American writer, 
primarily of children's fiction. His best known works are the Baseball 
Card Adventures children's book series which started off with Honus & Me. 
Each book in the series revolves around a child named Joe Stoshack (Nicknamed 
"Stosh") traveling back in time to meet a baseball legend; the first work 
is based on the premise of Stosh finding a Honus Wagner T206 baseball card 
in the attic of his neighbor. Further books in the series feature Jackie 
Robinson, Babe Ruth, Shoeless Joe Jackson, Dorothy Maguire, Abner Doubleday, 
Satchel Paige, Jim Thorpe, Ray Chapman, Roberto Clemente, Ted Williams, 
and Willie Mays. The original story, Honus & Me, was made into a Turner 
Network Television made-for-TV picture entitled The Winning Season, starring 
Matthew Modine.[1] Gutman was born in New York City.[2] He was raised in 
Newark, New Jersey – by his mother alone from age 12, when his father abandoned 
them.[3] He graduated from Rutgers University with a degree in psychology 
and started graduate school in that field.[3] He lives in New York City 
with his wife and has two grown children. Gutman was a magazine editor 
and columnist. While editor in chief of Stag, he became a fan of videogames 
and decided to start a video game magazine. Gutman became the first employee 
of Video Game Player (later Computer Games) in 1982.[4] He said, "I started 
a magazine about video games and suddenly I was an expert in video games. 
I started writing about them and computers. All for grownups. It took me 
a long time to realize that writing for grownups was not my thing. It took 
me a long time to realize that what I was good at was writing for kids."[5] 
His column appeared regularly in various computer-related magazines, such 
as Genie Livewire. Dan Gutman has written over twenty books in the My Weird 
School series[6] illustrated by Jim Paillot, plus related series. He has 
also written the Million Dollar series, featuring children who get a chance 
to win a million dollars in various sporting events; the Genius Files series, 
which was on the New York Times best seller list at number 10; Tales from 
the Sandlot, fantasy sports stories; the Funny Boy series about an alien 
boy exiled to Earth; and the Baseball Card Adventures series illustrated 
by Steve Chorney, about Joe Stoshack, a boy who travels in time upon touching 
old photographs or baseball cards. There have also been two about Judson 
Moon, who became President of the United States at 12, two about Qwerty 
Stevens and his time machine, and two about some children who use a machine 
to do their homework. His stand-alone novels include They Came from Center 
Field, about some extraterrestrials who want to learn baseball, Johnny 
Hangtime, about a young movie stuntman, and Race for the Sky, a historical 
novel in diary form about the Wright brothers.[7] Gutman's 1996 novel The 
Kid Who Ran for President was compared to the Donald Trump's 2016 presidential 
campaign by comedian John Oliver during an August 2016 segment of the show 
Last Week Tonight with John Oliver. As a result, the book jumped in sales.[8] 
The Kid (1996-1999) Baseball Card Adventures (1997–2015) Million Dollar 
