Daniel "Dan" Shulman (born February 9, 1967) is a Canadian sportscaster 
with the American network ESPN as well as Canadian network Sportsnet. Shulman 
serves as a play-by-play announcer for ESPN's men's college basketball 
coverage (with Jay Bilas) and Sunday Night Baseball (with Aaron Boone and 
Jessica Mendoza) as well as post-season baseball coverage on ESPN Radio. 
Shulman will be calling 30 Toronto Blue Jays games for Sportsnet in the 
2016 and 2017 seasons. Born in Toronto, Ontario, Shulman graduated from 
the University of Western Ontario in actuarial science but moved into a 
career in sports broadcasting. Shulman began his broadcasting career at 
the University of Western Ontario, becoming a main voice of university 
football and basketball for the Western Mustangs on CHRW radio in London, 
Ontario, and later at radio station CKBB in Barrie, where he volunteered 
for the local community television station. With the help of Erick Anderson 
(sports producer), he did the play-by-play for the local junior B hockey 
team. During the early 1990s, he was hired by the Fan 1430 (a sports radio 
station in Toronto now known as Sportsnet Radio The Fan 590) as the host 
of Prime Time Sports. He worked for CTV in its coverage of the 1994 Winter 
Olympics from Lillehammer, Norway, covering hockey, and the 1994 World 
Championships of Basketball. In 1995, he became the play-by-play voice 
on TSN for their broadcasts of Toronto Blue Jays baseball games alongside 
former Blue Jays catcher Buck Martinez. Shulman remained with the network 
for seven years, during which time he also worked as the network's secondary 
play-by-play voice for NHL hockey and lead announcer for NBA basketball. 
He also covered CHL games and backed up host Dave Hodge on TSN Inside Sports. 
Until 2007, Shulman continued to work with Buck Martinez for TSN during 
the World Series, filing daily reports. In 2011 he returned to TSN as an 
analyst and contributor. Shulman began working part time for ESPN while 
still employed by TSN. In 2001, he moved to ESPN full time to cover sporting 
events like baseball, college basketball, and occasionally hockey. ESPN 
signed Shulman to a five-year contract extension in 2007 and assigned him 
to call NBA games for the network. Shulman remains the network's lead announcer 
for NCAA basketball. On July 27, 2007, Shulman called Barry Bonds's 754th 
home run for ESPN. From 2002 to 2007, he served as the lead play-by-play 
announcer for ESPN Radio's MLB coverage, teaming with Dave Campbell to 
call the network's Sunday Night Baseball broadcasts as well as the All-Star 
Game, Home Run Derby, and select postseason games. In 2008, Gary Thorne 
succeeded Shulman as the lead Sunday Night Baseball voice; however, Shulman 
once again teamed with Campbell to call that year's All-Star and postseason 
events and continued to fill in on occasional regular season broadcasts. 
Shulman also teamed with Orel Hershiser to call Monday Night Baseball for 
ESPN television from 2008 to 2010 and with Hubie Brown to call ESPN NBA 
coverage from 2007 to 2012. On March 14, 2010, Duke's Kyle Singler saved 
a loose ball along the sideline, in turn leaped over the ESPN announcer's 
table, and crashed into Shulman, who was sitting courtside, broadcasting 
with Dick Vitale during the first half of play at the ACC Conference Men's 
Basketball Championship game versus Georgia Tech. No serious injuries were 
reported. On December 1, 2010, Shulman, Hershiser, and Bobby Valentine 
were named as ESPN's new Sunday Night Baseball crew for the 2011 MLB season. 
During the Sunday Night Baseball telecast between the New York Mets and 
Philadelphia Phillies on May 1, 2011, Shulman announced live to the ESPN 
audience the Osama bin Laden had died, a moment that has been compared 
to Howard Cosell's report of the John Lennon's passing on Monday Night 
Football in 1980. Shulman told USA Today that he had learned of bin Laden's 
death from Valentine, who himself received the news via text. "I talked 
to the producer in the truck and asked if they knew what was going on. 
Or maybe they asked me," said Shulman. "I couldn't just say something on-air 
because of a text, I needed corroboration. It all happened in about 30 
seconds."[1] Shulman also teamed with Orel Hershiser and Bobby Valentine 
for the ESPN Radio broadcast of the 2011 World Series won in 7 games by 
the St. Louis Cardinals over the Texas Rangers. That same year, he teamed 
with Dick Vitale for the broadcast of the Indiana–Kentucky rivalry on December 
10, 2011. His call for the game winning three-pointer by Christian Watford 
was “Jones... Watford for the win… YES! YES!” with Vitale screaming “Unbelievable!” 
shortly after. Shulman was named 2011 National Sportscaster of the Year 
by the National Sportscasters and Sportswriters Association, the first 
Canadian-born announcer to be so honoured. In 2016, Shulman covered the 
baseball post-season, including the World Series between the Chicago Cubs 
and the Cleveland Indians with Aaron Boone as his color commentator. In 
addition to his continued work with ESPN, on November 19, 2015, Shulman 
announced he would be joining the Sportsnet broadcast team for upwards 
