Dan Shaughnessy (born July 20, 1953) is an American sports writer. Shaughnessy 
was born in Groton, Massachusetts. After graduating from the College of 
the Holy Cross in 1975, he began his career as a beat reporter covering 
the Baltimore Orioles for the Baltimore Evening Sun in 1977 and 1978. He 
then was the national baseball writer for The Washington Star from 1979 
until the newspaper folded in 1981.[1] He has been a sports writer for 
The Boston Globe for approximately 30 years, starting in September 1981. 
During that time, he has served as the beat writer for the Boston Celtics 
and the Boston Red Sox, as well as a sports columnist for the Globe. Shaughnessy 
has authored or contributed to several sports-related books, including 
on the fierce Yankees–Red Sox rivalry. His book, The Curse of the Bambino, 
details the travails of the Boston Red Sox and their search for a World 
Series championship after selling Babe Ruth to the New York Yankees. He 
subsequently wrote Reversing the Curse after the Red Sox won the 2004 World 
Series. He is a contributor to ESPN The Magazine, and a regular guest on 
a Sunday night sports show, Sports Xtra.[2] Shaughnessy discusses sports 
and current events on radio shows airing on WTKK; on ESPN's Rome Is Burning; 
and on NESN's SportsPlus and Globe 10.0.[3] On July 9, 2008, he made his 
debut as a guest host on the ESPN show Pardon the Interruption. He has 
a weekend radio show on WBZ-FM alongside Adam Jones. Considered by some 
Red Sox fans (and some players) as being overly negative and critical, 
he earned the pejorative nickname "Curly-Haired Boyfriend" from former 
Red Sox player Carl Everett.[4] The Dan Shaughnessy Watch blog[5] dedicated 
to critiquing his work was launched in 2005. In the final game of the 2011 
season, the Red Sox had a playoff berth on the line in Baltimore. During 
a rain delay, Shaugnessy declared, "I think the Rays are not going to win 
tonight. I think the one thing we've eliminated tonight is the Red Sox 
season is not going to end tonight. They live to play another day." At 
the time, the Tampa Bay Rays were trailing the New York Yankees 7–0 in 
the 8th inning, but won 8–7 in 12 innings. The Red Sox were leading the 
Baltimore Orioles 3–2 but lost 4–3 and were eliminated from the postseason.[6] 
In 2013, Shaughnessy and Cleveland Indians manager Terry Francona released 
Francona, a biography focusing on Francona's years as manager of the Red 
Sox. The book immediately became a best-seller.[7] On December 8, 2015, 
Shaughnessy was named the 2016 recipient of the J. G. Taylor Spink Award, 
presented annually by the Baseball Writers' Association of America "for 
meritorious contributions to baseball writing". He will be presented with 
the award during induction weekend at the National Baseball Hall of Fame 
in July 2016.[8] In an October 2005 column he revealed information detailing 
the relationship between Theo Epstein and Red Sox CEO Larry Lucchino.[9][10] 
Shaughnessy and other Globe writers have been accused by writers at the 
Boston Herald of routinely reporting information leaked from the Red Sox 
front office (the Red Sox were 17.75 percent owned by The New York Times 
Company, the Globe's parent company).[11][12] [13] Then–Boston Herald columnist 
Tony Massarotti accused Red Sox management of smearing Epstein and suggested 
the Globe's coverage of the negotiations may be conflicted because of the 
Times ownership in the team.[14] In the weeks leading up to Epstein's decision, 
Sox owner John Henry himself said the leaks "had to stop". He is married 
and has two daughters and a son, Sarah, Kate and Sam.[citation needed] 
