Daniel P. Evans (born January 27, 1960 in Chicago, Illinois) is an American 
Major League Baseball (MLB) executive and baseball expert. A pioneer in 
the use of technology for baseball evaluation, Evans is a top scout for 
the Toronto Blue Jays, mentor for the Sports Management Worldwide "Baseball 
GM and Scouting" course, member of the Baseball Prospectus Advisory Board, 
serves on the Board of Directors for the SABR Rocky Mountain Chapter, and 
is President/CEO of Evans Baseball Consulting. Evans evaluates talent all 
over the world for the Blue Jays, and is responsible for their Pacific 
Rim Operations. He was Commissioner of the Northern League of Professional 
Baseball in 2013. In addition, Evans authored a column "108 Stitches" for 
Baseball Prospectus until assuming his current role with the Blue Jays. 
Evans, a Chicago native, was the President and CEO of Paragon Sports International 
and West Coast Sports Management, both baseball representation firms. He 
has been in baseball his whole career, starting as an intern with the Chicago 
White Sox while a junior at DePaul University. Evans was the Executive 
Vice President and General Manager of the Los Angeles Dodgers from 2001 
to 2004, rebuilt the Dodgers' entire baseball organization after it had 
sunk to a rating of 28th within MLB as he inherited the team, and was the 
primary architect of the Dodgers' 2004 West Division champions, their first 
playoff club in eight years. Evans' winning percentage (.546) as Dodgers' 
GM is the second-best in Los Angeles Dodgers history. Among his draftees 
were All-Star outfielder Matt Kemp and catcher Russell Martin. Within two 
years, the Dodgers set franchise records for pitching and defense, and 
the organization elevated its ranking to 2nd overall. While Dodgers' GM, 
Evans promoted the first Taiwanese player (Chin-Feng Chen) to the Major 
Leagues, and three of the first four Taiwanese big leaguers have direct 
ties to Evans. He has now worked in decision-making roles for five MLB 
organizations (Chicago White Sox, Chicago Cubs, Los Angeles Dodgers, Seattle 
Mariners, and Toronto Blue Jays). He worked his way to the top after his 
White Sox internship, eventually getting promoted to Assistant General 
Manager/Director of Baseball Operations in Chicago.[1] After almost 20 
years, Evans resigned from the White Sox after their 2000 Central Division 
Championship season, and after a few months of working for the Chicago 
Cubs along with some broadcasting, he landed a job as a Senior Advisor 
with the Los Angeles Dodgers under Chairman Bob Daly and was eventually 
promoted to Dodgers' General Manager. Proficient in social media, Evans' 
Twitter account, @DanEvans108, was honored as a "Top 100 Must-Follow Sports 
Business Twitter Account of 2014" by Forbes, has been recognized as "Who 
to Follow" by Twitter, Top Prospect Alert, and Bleacher Report, and was 
named among "Top 50 Baseball Related Twitter Accounts" by Baseball America 
and "30 Must Follow Twitter Accounts" by Mashable. Evans attended Lane 
Technical High School on Chicago's North Side and DePaul University. Evans 
