Daniel "Dan" McLaughlin is a professional sports broadcaster who currently 
works on both St. Louis Cardinals and St. Louis Blues telecasts on the 
cable television channel Fox Sports Midwest.[2] He was born March 18, 1974 
in St. Louis.[3] He used to be a play-by-play announcer for the NFL on 
Fox in 2006 with some involving the St. Louis Rams as he called the St. 
Louis Rams-Minnesota Vikings game with Tony Boselli. Dan McLaughlin grew 
up in the St. Louis area where his father was a school teacher. Following 
his graduation from St. John Vianney High School in suburban Kirkwood, 
Missouri, McLaughlin attended Lindenwood University in Saint Charles.[4] 
Setting his sights on sports broadcasting from an early age, McLaughlin 
performed a variety of broadcasting duties at university-owned KCLC while 
a student while at Lindenwood. While in college McLaughlin also served 
an internship at KMOX radio in St. Louis, and became a sports talk show 
host with the station in 1996.[2][5] McLaughlin soon found himself as a 
frequent contributor to St. Louis Blues telecasts on KPLR-TV and FSN Midwest. 
In 2000 he became the play-by-play broadcaster for FSN's Cardinal games.[1] 
Additionally McLaughlin does play-by-play Mizzou Tiger and Missouri Valley 
Conference basketball games, and occasional regional college football games 
for ESPN.[6] On August 16, 2010 Dan McLaughlin was arrested on charges 
of driving while intoxicated. Under a plea agreement McLaughlin was allowed 
to keep his drivers license and placed on two years probation.[7] On September 
30, 2011, McLaughlin was involved in a one-vehicle crash near his Chesterfield, 
Missouri home. Police investigated and arrested McLaughlin on charges of 
drunk driving and leaving the scene of an accident.[8] Following the second 
arrest, Fox Sports Midwest placed him on indefinite suspension, removing 
him from all remaining regular-season Cardinals broadcasts, and post-game 
specials during the teams playoff and World Series run.[2][9] In addition 
to suspension from his job with Fox Sports, McLaughlin lost his employment 
broadcasting Mizzou and Missouri Valley Conference games, as well as his 
regular appearances on KMOX radio. McLaughlin was reinstated by Fox in 
February, 2012 after being treated for alcoholism at a rehab facility. 
He also returned to KMOX, but in a much more limited role. Said McLaughlin 
to the St. Louis Post-Dispatch of his newfound sobriety: "I feel better 
than I have in a decade, at least." He has lost over 75 pounds and attends 
meetings daily to help maintain a sober life.[10] Dan McLaughlin and wife 
Libby are the parents of four children: oldest son Luke, born in 2005, 
oldest daughter Avery, born in 2007, and twins Oliva and Barrett born in 
2009. The McLaughlins are involved in several St. Louis area charities 
including hosting the annual "Dan McLaughlin Golf Tournament" to benefit 
