Dane Charles Iorg (/ˈɔːrdʒ/ ORJ; born May 11, 1950) is a retired Major 
League Baseball infielder and outfielder. He played for ten seasons (1977–1986) 
for four teams, including eight seasons for the St. Louis Cardinals. Iorg 
earned the game-winning hit in game six of the 1985 World Series. His brother 
Garth also played in the Major Leagues. Iorg was born in Eureka, California, 
and he grew up in the nearby town of Blue Lake.[1] He began his playing 
career with the Philadelphia Phillies in April 1977, but by that June the 
club traded him along with outfielder Rick Bosetti and pitcher Tom Underwood 
to the St. Louis Cardinals for outfielder Bake McBride and pitcher Steve 
Waterbury. During the strike-shortened 1981 season, he led the Cardinals 
in RBIs with 61 and with a .327 batting-average.[2] He is the brother of 
former third basemen Garth Iorg; both graduated from Arcata High School 
in Arcata, California[3] and they played against each other in the 1985 
American League Championship Series. In the 1982 World Series, Iorg played 
for the Cardinals, primarily as their World Series designated hitter (the 
entire 1982 World Series was played under American League rules) and batted 
.529 with 9 hits in 17 at-bats as the Cardinals defeated the Milwaukee 
Brewers in seven games. On July 15, 1984, the Cardinals sold Iorg to the 
Kansas City Royals. Iorg is perhaps best known for his game-winning hit 
in game 6 of the 1985 World Series as a member of the Kansas City Royals 
against his old team, St. Louis. The hit came during one of only two at-bats 
that Iorg received during the series. The Cardinals had led the series 
three games to two prior to game six; the game is remembered for first-base 
umpire Don Denkinger's controversial "safe" call of Royals hitter Jorge 
Orta on a ground ball to lead off the bottom of the ninth. Iorg batted 
later in the inning with one out and the bases loaded. The Royals trailed, 
1–0, until Iorg's single allowed Onix Concepción and Jim Sundberg to score. 
The Royals went on to win game 7, 11–0, and give Kansas City their first 
World Series championship. Several members of the Iorg family have played 
collegiate or professional baseball. Dane's brother, Garth Iorg, played 
for the Toronto Blue Jays and coached for the Milwaukee Brewers. His son 
Seth played baseball for BYU and his son Court plays for the school as 
