Danger Boy, created and written by Mark London Williams, is a young adult 
time travel series. Beginning in 2019, the series follows the time spanning 
adventures of twelve-year-old Eli Sands, the eponymous protagonist, and 
his companions: Clyne, a good-natured dinosaur from another planet who 
gathers information for a school assignment, and Thea, last librarian in 
Alexandria. Four books have so far been published. A fifth and presumably 
final book, "Fortune's Fool," has been finished, but due to publishing 
biz changes, has yet to be released. The first Danger Boy adventure Ancient 
Fire was nominated for The Golden Duck Awards for Excellence in Children's 
Science Fiction: Hal Clement Award for Young Adults. In 2019 Eli Sands 
is a pretty typical kid. He plays Barnstormers, collects baseball 'grams, 
and spends most of his free time with his vidpad. So what's he doing in 
the middle of a burning city in ancient Egypt? Standing next to a highly 
evolved dinosaur from another planet? It all has to do with DARPA and the 
timesphere experiments. After the first "accident," Eli's mother disappears. 
After the second, Eli earns the corny codename "Danger Boy." Now it's his 
mission to save his world and his family from a fatal disease that has 
slipped through time. Eli Sands is on a quest to find his missing mother. 
In his second adventure he encounter characters like: vile Hitler Youth, 
Joe DiMaggio, even the wizard Merlin! Once again, he is luckily joined 
and aided by Clyne and Thea, the unlikely pair of accidental adventurers 
Eli befriended during his first navigation of the Fifth Dimension. This 
time Eli may have found his mom, but can he bring her home and save the 
free world from tyrannical rule? Second in a thrilling middle-grade series 
that mixes a hint of the X-Files, a dash of Discovery Channel, and a good 
dose of solid action adventure. Original cover illustration by the creators 
of the award-winning Promethea comic-book series. Fresh from a dangerous 
time-traveling mission, Eli Sands and his friends Clyne, the evolved dinosaur, 
and Thea, the scholar from Alexandria, are thrown into nineteenth-century 
America after an accident with their time-travel vessel. Unfortunately, 
Clyne is stranded alone in potentially hostile territory, while Thea and 
Eli pop up at the beginning of the famed Lewis and Clark expedition. After 
Thea is mistaken for an escaped slave and taken into custody, Eli joins 
Lewis and Clark's Corps of Discovery in hopes of finding Clyne, a means 
to rescue Thea, and transportation home. While trying to escape and regroup, 
Eli and his friends make important discoveries about their "accidental" 
stumble into 1804. It looks like they were lured by a Prime Nexus, which 
they may have caused, and which will surely change all of history to come. 
Danger Boy and his time-traveling companions are in for some shocking surprises 
when they meet up with an earlier expedition—the historical journey of 
Lewis and Clark. After another close call, the good news is that Eli Sands, 
aka Danger Boy, is back in San Francisco in 2020. The bad news is that 
Eli and his friends, Clyne the evolved dinosaur and Thea the Alexandrian 
scholar, are being held captive by the government agency DARPA. Since their 
last foray into the Fifth Dimension, it seems history has been unraveling 
everywhere, and the deadly smallpox virus is spreading fast. DARPA's plan 
is for Eli to visit ancient Jerusalem. But Eli and crew discover that the 
city is in ruins from a Babylonian invasion, and soon an angry mob is ready 
to stone them. Will Danger Boy and his friends find their way home again? 
