Daniel Okrent (born April 2, 1948) is an American writer and editor. He 
is best known for having served as the first public editor of The New York 
Times newspaper, for inventing Rotisserie League Baseball,[1] and for writing 
several books, most recently Last Call: The Rise and Fall of Prohibition, 
which served as a major source for the 2011 Ken Burns/Lynn Novick miniseries 
Prohibition. In November 2011, Last Call won the Albert J. Beveridge prize, 
awarded by the American Historical Association to the year's best book 
of American history. Old Jews Telling Jokes, a theatrical revue he co-wrote 
and co-produced with Peter Gethers, opened at the Westside Theatre in Manhattan 
on May 20, 2012. Born in Detroit, Michigan, Okrent graduated from Cass 
Technical High School in Detroit[2] in 1965 and from the University of 
Michigan, where he worked on the university's student newspaper The Michigan 
Daily. Most of his career has been spent as an editor, at such places as 
Alfred A. Knopf; Harcourt, Brace, Jovanovich; Esquire Magazine; New England 
Monthly; Life Magazine; and Time, Inc. His book Great Fortune: The Epic 
of Rockefeller Center (Viking, 2003) was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize 
for History. In October 2003, Okrent was named public editor for The New 
York Times following the Jayson Blair scandal. He held this position until 
May 2005. On May 3, 2014, the University of Michigan awarded Okrent an 
honorary degree: Doctor of Humane Letters. He formulated what has become 
known as "Okrent's law" in an interview comment he made about his new job. 
It states: "The pursuit of balance can create imbalance because sometimes 
something is true," referring to the phenomenon of the press providing 
legitimacy to fringe or minority viewpoints in an effort to appear even-handed.[3][4][5][6] 
Okrent invented Rotisserie League Baseball, the best-known form of fantasy 
baseball, in 1979. The name comes from the fact that he proposed the idea 
to his friends while dining at La Rôtisserie Française restaurant in New 
York City. Okrent's team in the Rotisserie League was called the "Okrent 
Fenokees", a pun on the Okefenokee Swamp. He was one of the first two people 
inducted into the Fantasy Sports Hall of Fame.[7] Okrent was still playing 
Rotisserie as of 2009 under the team name Dan Druffs. Ironically, despite 
having been credited with inventing fantasy baseball he has never been 
able to win a Rotisserie League he has ever entered. His exploits of inventing 
Rotisserie League Baseball were chronicled in Silly Little Game, part of 
the ESPN 30 for 30 documentary series, in 2010.[8] Okrent is also credited 
with inventing the baseball stat, WHIP. At the time he referred to it as 
IPRAT, signifying "Innings Pitched Ratio." In May 1981, Okrent wrote and 
Sports Illustrated published He Does It by the Numbers. This profile of 
the then-unknown Bill James launched James's career as baseball's foremost 
analyst. In 1994, Okrent was filmed for his in-depth knowledge of baseball 
history for the Ken Burns documentary Baseball. During the nine-part series, 
a red-sweater-wearing Okrent delivered a detailed analysis of the cultural 
aspects of the national pastime, including a comparison of the dramatic 
Game 6 of the 1975 World Series between the Boston Red Sox and Cincinnati 
Reds to the conflict and character development in Russian novels. Okrent 
has engaged with the concept of the “Death of Print”.[9] He believes that 
the advancement of digital technologies will make it easier for people 
to read print media online such as newspapers, magazines and books.[10] 
In the late 1999, Okrent spoke about the future of print media in the Hearst 
New Media Lecture at the Graduate School of Journalism of Columbia University.[11] 
He told his audience “I believe they, and all forms of print, are dead. 
Finished. Over. Perhaps not in my professional lifetime, but certainly 
in that of the youngest people in this room. Remove the question mark from 
the title of this talk. The Death of Print, full stop”.[12] Okrent participates 
