Danish Longball (also known as Swedick longball) is a bat-and-ball game 
founded in Denmark. It is popular in British secondary schools, is played 
recreationally by scouts, the Air Training Corps and by the British Navy 
and Australian Navy. It is also a popular sport at U.S. summer camps.[1] 
Danish Longball can be described as a hybrid of baseball and cricket. There 
is a modern variant that is based on football[2] too. Each team takes turns 
batting and fielding. In British secondary schools in particular, an element 
of dodgeball is incorporated, with a player being "out" if he or she is 
hit with the ball (outside the safety zone) below the head whilst aiming 
to get a run. Players are split into two teams, a batting team and a balling 
team. The batting team waits behind the batting goal ready to bat. The 
balling team is spread behind the batting goal and the safe goal ready 
to field. The batting field has two parts: Inside and outside a square 
(or circle). Fielders can position themselves inside or outside of the 
square.The fielder who fields the ball cannot move with it rather they 
must pass it to another fielder in a better position to hit the runner. 
The bowler pitches (either as in Baseball, Cricket or general underarm) 
the ball to the batter, who must use his bat to hit the ball. The ball 
must be hit within the field of play - the square. The ball must hit the 
ground at least once before it bounces or roll off the field. The batter 
must then run to the other side of the square to a "safe zone". The runner 
may rest in safety, but to earn a "run" he must make it safely back to 
the original side of the square without getting out. Each side bats its 
entire line-up. Five rounds of play are recommended. When played in Britain 
it is usually an alternative to Cricket, so timed innings may be used along 
with a set of stumps (though usually not a cricket ball, as the risk of 
injury is significantly raised rather than a tennis ball). A player is 
out if A variant of the above is sometimes used: if a fielder hits a runner 
with the ball outside the safe-zones then the entire batting team is out. 
