 Connecticut Darien /dɛəriˈæn/ is a town in Fairfield County, Connecticut, 
United States. Located on Connecticut's "Gold Coast," the population was 
20,732 at the 2010 census.[2] Darien is one of the wealthiest communities 
in the U.S.; it was listed at #2 on CNN Money's list of "top-earning towns" 
in the United States as of 2010.[3] Situated just off of I-95 between the 
cities of Norwalk and Stamford, the town is a bedroom community with relatively 
few office buildings. Most workers commute to Manhattan, and many also 
work in adjacent cities. Two Metro-North railroad stations – Noroton Heights 
and Darien – link the town to Grand Central Terminal and the rest of the 
New Haven Line. For recreation, the town includes four small parks, two 
public beaches on Long Island Sound, four country clubs, a hunt club, and 
two yacht clubs. According to early records, the first clearings of land 
were made by men from the New Haven and Wethersfield colonies and from 
Norwalk in about 1641. It was not until 1740, however, that the Middlesex 
Society of the Town of Stamford built the first community church, now the 
First Congregational Church of Darien (which stands on the original site 
at the corner of Brookside Road and the Boston Post Road).[4] The area 
became Middlesex Parish in 1737. It was incorporated as the Town of Darien 
in 1820. Tories (Loyalists) raided the town several times during the American 
Revolution, at one point taking 26 men in the parish prisoner for five 
months, including the Reverend Moses Mather, pastor of the parish. The 
Loyalist-Patriot conflict in Darien is the setting for the novel Tory Hole, 
the first book by children's author Louise Hall Tharp. According to the 
Darien Historical Society,[5] the name Darien was decided upon when the 
residents of the town could not agree on a name to replace Middlesex Parish, 
many families wanting it to be named after themselves. A sailor who had 
traveled to Darién, Panama, then part of the Spanish Empire, suggested 
the name Darien, which was eventually adopted by the people of the town. 
The town name is pronounced /dɛəriˈæn/ (like "Dairy-Ann"), with stress 
on the last syllable, and has been referred to as such at least as far 
back as 1913.[6] Residents say this is still the proper pronunciation, 
which in most American English, including the local variety, is more precisely 
[dɛəɹiˈɛən].[7] "You can always tell when someone is not from here, because 
they do pronounce it the way it's spelled," Louise Berry, director of the 
town library, said in a 2006 interview.[8] Until the advent of the railroad 
in 1848, Darien remained a small, rural community of about 1,000. After 
the Civil War, the town became one of the many resorts where New Yorkers 
built luxurious, grand summer homes. Darien has a well-established reputation 
as a former sundown town,[9] having effectively kept out African American 
and Jewish families for decades. According to the United States Census 
Bureau, the town has a total area of 14.8 square miles (38 km2), of which 
12.9 square miles (33 km2) is land and 2.0 square miles (5.2 km2), or 13.41%, 
is water. The town has four exits on the northbound-traffic side of Interstate 
95 (Exits 10–13) and three on the southbound-traffic side (where there 
is no Exit 12). Its northern border is just south of the Merritt Parkway, 
where Exits 36 and 37 are closest to the town. It also has two Metro-North 
railroad stations for commuter trains into New York City, with a 38 to 
39 miles (61 to 63 km) commute of 46–50 minutes from Noroton Heights and 
49–53 minutes from Darien. (The Talmadge Hill railroad station on the New 
Canaan Branch is within walking distance of homes at the far northwestern 
corner of town, and the Rowayton railroad station is within walking distance 
of homes near Raymond Street in the southeastern part of town.) Most trains 
run non-stop after Stamford into New York City's 125th Street, then Grand 
Central Terminal. Along with the New Haven Line of Metro-North Railroad 
and Interstate 95, US Route 1, known locally as the Boston Post Road, or, 
more commonly, the Post Road, runs east-west through the southern side 
of town. Except for the Noroton Heights business district, commercial zoning 
is extremely limited outside of the town-wide strip along the Post Road. 
Darien is bordered on the west by Stamford, on the north by New Canaan, 
and on the east by Norwalk. On the south it faces Long Island Sound. It 
is part of the "panhandle" of Connecticut jutting into New York state. 
The town has 16.5 miles (26.6 km) of coastline and five harbors. In addition 
to some small neighborhoods, the larger divisions of the town are Downtown 
Darien (area surrounding Boston Post Road from I-95 to Brookside Road), 
Noroton (roughly in the southwest corner of town on Boston Post Road), 
Ox Ridge (northern end of Mansfield Avenue), (Noroton Heights (roughly 
north of Interstate 95 to Middlesex Middle School with an eastern boundary 
of Noroton Avenue), Noroton Bay (southern end of Noroton Neck), Long Neck 
Point (southernmost part of town up to historic Ring's End Landing), Delafield 
Island (waterfront community in between Long Neck and Tokeneke) and Tokeneke 
(mostly private community in the southeastern end of town). The name Noroton 
originates from the Native American "Norporiton" assigned to the river 
along Darien's border with Stamford. This section of Darien is defined 
by two peninsulas that claw their way into Long Island Sound, their curved 
appendages protecting enough coves and inlets to make the area a haven 
for beachgoers and sailors. The shorter of the peninsulas, Noroton Neck, 
is divided into shore communities like Noroton Bay and Pratt Island.[10] 
Long Neck, which extends farther into Long Island Sound includes Long Neck 
Point which provides westerly views of Manhattan. Though the general geographic 
reference to this land feature is Long Neck Point, therein are two different 
neighborhoods, each with their own main road and distinct features. Connecticut’s 
Gold Coast, Long Neck Point is consistently ranked one of the best places 
to live in America. Historically, it has also been called Collender’s Point 
and “La Belle” Point. In 1902, Anson Phelps Stokes of the Stokes family 
built a Gilded Age brick Georgian manor on the end, dubbed "Brick House" 
which was later occupied by Andrew Carnegie. Carnegie’s manor was later 
run as the Convent of the Sacred Heart before it was split in half and 
sold as two private residences. The property on the tip was divided in 
two and neither home can rise above 20 feet. On its east side, Long Neck 
Point Road stretches south beginning near the Ring's End Landing bridge 
and terminating at the southerly most tip of land. This area is somewhat 
inland and away from the eastern shoreline and at a relatively high elevation 
above the water. The west coast of Long Neck runs along Goodwives River 
and includes Pear Tree Point. A public beach, Pear Tree Point Park and 
a private boat club, the Darien Boat Club are on Pear Tree Point in Noroton 
Harbor. Pear Tree Point Road, begins at the Ring's End Landing bridge, 
runs south along the western side of the Point adjacent to "The Gut" and 
to outer Noroton Harbor. This charming route hugs the shoreline at an elevation 
close enough to the tides such that storm conditions can bring the water 
level over the road. Approximately half-way south along the peninsula, 
Pear Tree Point Road turns abruptly to the east, ninety degrees, heading 
uphill and connecting to Long Neck Point Road, distinguishing Long Neck 
from Long Neck Point. Ring's End Landing, the original settlement and shipping 
point for early residents includes a historic stone bridge providing easier 
access to Long Neck, essential after the creation of the New Haven Railroad. 
Long Neck became a summer destination for the wealthy when rail travel 
made it accessible during the mid-19th century.[10] The bridge crosses 
a dam dividing Gorhams Pond from the Gut. The large island to the east 
is the remaining estate of the late William Ziegler. The Ziegler Estate 
is the most expensive waterfront plot on the eastern seaboard. With an 
assessed property value of over $22,000,000 and thousands of feet of direct 
undeveloped waterfront, it boasts the fourth largest property tax in town. 
For the first time in over a century, the 63-acre portion of the estate 
known as Great Island was listed for sale and is expected to set a national 
record at $175,000,000.[11] Darien's eastern coastline is almost entirely 
Tokeneke, a private community with a beach, club, and police patrol. Coveted 
Contentment Island sits in the southeastern most part of town, encompassed 
by Tokeneke. Noroton Heights "blew up around the Noroton Heights train 
station and housed the European immigrants who serviced the old estates," 
according to an article about the community in The New York Times. The 
densely populated streets of this part of town are full of "modest Capes 
and colonials" along with other house styles.[10] Darien has a humid continental 
climate, similar to that of New York City, with mild to warm humid summers 
and cold to very cold winters. The highest recorded temperature was 103 °F 
(39 °C) in July 1966, while the lowest recorded temperature was -15 °F 
(-26 °C) in 1968.[12] Snowfall is generally frequent in winter while average 
precipitation is most common in September. As of the census of 2000, there 
were 19,607 people, 6,592 households, and 5,385 families residing in the 
town. The population density was 1,525.2 people per square mile (588.7/km²). 
There were 6,792 housing units at an average density of 203.9 persons/km² 
(528.3 persons/sq mi). The racial makeup of the town was 95.97% White, 
0.45% African American, 0.04% Native American, 2.42% Asian, 0.03% Pacific 
Islander, 0.30% from other races, and 0.80% from two or more races. Hispanic 
or Latino of any race were 2.19% of the population. There were 6,592 households 
out of which 46.4% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 74.5% 
were married couples living together, 5.6% had a woman whose husband did 
not live with her, and 18.3% were non-families. 15.6% of all households 
were made up of individuals and 8.3% had someone living alone who was 65 
years of age or older. The average household size was 2.95 and the average 
family size was 3.31. In the town the population was spread out with 32.5% 
under the age of 18, 3.0% from 18 to 24, 28.2% from 25 to 44, 24.0% from 
45 to 64, and 12.4% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 
38 years. For every 100 females there were 96.2 males. For every 100 females 
age 18 and over, there were 89.7 males. According to a 2007 estimate, the 
median income for a household in the town was $160,274, and the median 
income for a family was $195,905.[15] As of the 2000 Census, males had 
a median income of $100,000 versus $59,313 for females. The per capita 
income for the town was $77,519. 2.0% of the population and 0.6% of families 
were below the poverty line. Out of the total people living in poverty, 
1.6% are under the age of 18 and 2.6% are 65 or older. Elected bodies in 
the town government are a five-member Board of Selectmen, a nine-member 
Board of Education, a seven-member Board of Finance, a six-member Planning 
and Zoning Commission, three-member Board of Assessment Appeals, and a 
100-member, nonpartisan Representative Town Meeting. The town has several 
elective offices as well: the town clerk, probate judge, registrar of voters, 
tax collector and treasurer.[16] The Board of Finance approves financial 
measures, including the town budget; the Board of Education controls the 
town's public schools; the Representative Town Meeting is the main legislative 
body of the town. As of December 1, 2005, the town had 12,099 registered 
voters, with 6,445 Republicans (53.1 percent), 1,940 Democrats (16 percent) 
and 3,703 unaffiliated voters (30.6 percent).[17] Darien is primarily a 
Republican town, voting for George W. Bush in 2000 and 2004, and John McCain 
in the 2008 election. However, in 2003, Evonne Klein replaced Robert Harrel 
as First Selectman, becoming the first Democrat to win the post in 14 years. 
Klein was re-elected in 2005 and again in 2007, but did not run in the 
November 3, 2009 election, which was won by Republican David Campbell.[18] 
Darien has the lowest mill rate of the Fairfield County suburbs of its 
size, with a mill rate of 15.35 being consistently lower than New Canaan 
at 15.985 and Westport at 18.09 (rates as of 2016).[19] A lower mill rate 
often indicates higher property value, as prestigious Greenwich has the 
second lowest in the state.[20] JetBlue Airways has finance and scheduling 
operations at 19 Old Kings Highway South in Darien.[21] In mid-2012 JetBlue 
combined the Darien and Forest Hills, Queens, New York City headquarters 
into its headquarters in Long Island City, Queens.[22] Darien is served 
by Darien Public Schools, and Darien High School was ranked No. 1 in the 
"U.S. News Best High Schools in Connecticut" in 2013.[23] Darien has five 
elementary schools: Hindley School, Holmes School, Ox Ridge School, Royle 
School, and Tokeneke School. A $27 million addition was completed in 2000 
to the town's middle school, Middlesex Middle School, and a new $73 million 
campus for Darien High School was completed in the fall of 2005.[10] Darien 
sports teams go by the name of the "Blue Wave". In June 2012, 24/7 Wall 
St. ranked Darien as the 10th wealthiest school district in the United 
States.[24] Pear Tree Point School, originally named Plumfield School, 
is a private school on Long Neck, educating students in pre-kindergarten 
through Grade 5.[25] The public library in Darien, the Darien Library, 
has consistently ranked in the top ten of its category in the HAPLR (Hennen's 
American Public Library Ratings) Index of libraries. In 2012, it was named 
a Five Star library by Library Journal, which used four objective measures: 
visits, circulation, program attendance and internet computer use per capita 
to compare the level of services libraries provide to their communities.[26] 
An ambulance service, known as "Darien EMS – Post 53" is the only ambulance 
service in the nation staffed and run entirely by high school student volunteers.[27] 
The Explorer post is chartered under the Connecticut Yankee Council, and 
is considered a scouting unit. The service provides emergency care at no 
cost to the patient, funded entirely by private donations from town residents. 
Teenagers are allowed to perform patient care due to the fact that Connecticut 
is one of the few states in the nation which allows Emergency medical technicians 
to be certified at age 16.[28] Students will start training while they 
are in their freshman year of high school. They are elected by current 
members of Post and then they continue their training supervised by trained 
adults, Post 53 lets in 20 teenagers a year to join the crew. "Each student 
receives at least 150 hours of training for basic certification as emergency 
medical technicians; by their senior year, some even qualify to drive the 
ambulance."[10] The town of Darien is protected by three independent all-volunteer 
fire departments in three fire districts. The Darien Fire Department is 
located at 848 Post Rd.(Rte. 1) in Downtown Darien. The Noroton Fire Department 
is located at 1873 Post Rd. in the Noroton section of town. The Noroton 
Heights Fire Department is located at 209 Noroton Ave. in the Noroton Heights 
section of town. Each fire department responds in conjunction with the 
other two on most calls during weekdays and more independently during the 
weekend. The three fire departments average a total of approximately 1,000 
emergency calls for service annually. The three fire departments operate 
a combined fire apparatus fleet of 6 Engines, 3 Trucks(including 1 Quint), 
3 Rescues, 2 Tankers, 1 Fireboat, 1 High-Water Rescue Unit, 3 Utility Units, 
and 5 Command Units. Regarding ambulance service, see "Post 53" section 
above. The town is served by two train stations, one in Noroton Heights 
and the other in downtown Darien. The Connecticut Turnpike (Interstate 
95) runs through town, as does the Post Road, U.S. Route 1. Just to the 
north of town, the Merritt Parkway (Route 15) runs roughly parallel to 
the northern border between Darien and New Canaan. The Talmadge Hill railroad 
station is just north of the border as well. Along with the Post Road, 
major east-west thoroughfares in town are West Avenue and Middlesex Road. 
Major north-south roads are Hoyt Street, Hollow Tree Ridge Road, Nearwater 
Lane, Noroton Avenue, Middlesex Road, Mansfield Avenue and Brookside Road. 
Interstate 95 has rest stops in Darien both for the southbound and northbound 
lanes. The state Department of Transportation has added "speed change" 
lanes between entrances and exits up to Exit 10 (and points westward). 
The phase of the highway widening from Exit 9 to Exit 10, at a cost of 
$7.5 million, was expected to be complete by October 2007, state Transportation 
officials said in August of that year. The state is in the process of planning 
more such lanes through the rest of the highway in town in a project expected 
to cost $24.5 million. About 150,000 vehicles pass Exit 12 each day, according 
to the state Department of Transportation. The state was considering closing 
the southbound entrance for Exit 12 in 2008 during work on the project.[29] 
Chapter 14 of English author Nigel Williams' 1994 travelogue From Wimbledon 
to Waco tells of his difficulties in reaching Darien from Interstate 95. 
In December 2007 a 15-month, $5.5 million project was completed to add 
fourth (or "operational") lanes in each direction between the entrances 
and exits at Exits 10 and 11 in Darien. An earlier project added a fourth 
lane on the southbound side from the entrance at Exit 10 to Exit 8. After 
that lane was added, a state Department of Transportation study concluded 
that accidents were down on that stretch of the highway by 20 percent, 
amounting to about 160 fewer accidents per year. Construction of operational 
lanes at exits 11, 12, and 13 was expected to begin in the late spring 
of 2008.[30] Baywater Properties has proposed a significant redevelopment 
of Downtown Darien in the area bounded by Post Road, Corbin Dr, I-95 and 
Old Kings Highway. As of September 2016 it appeared that the P&Z commission 
would reject the proposed building heights despite overwhelming public 
support. Baywater Properties revised their proposal and as of Oct 2016 
this is under review by the P&Z commission.[34] Darien has many active 
scout units, including two Boy Scout troops, a Boy Scout Ship, and Explorer 
Post 53 (see Post 53 section, above), as well as three Cub Scout packs. 
Both troops and the ship are funded by the Andrew Shaw Memorial Trust; 
other funding comes from the annual May tag sale at the Scout Cabin on 
West Avenue, which has raised more than $50,000 in some years. These Scout 
units are in town: The Ox Ridge Hunt Club sponsors this annual June event, 
which has attracted up to 16,000 spectators and 1,300 equestrians, some 
from as far away as California and Europe. The 2007 Grand Prix event offered 
a $25,000 prize. The three-day event is free to spectators.[48] Darien 
is served by two local print/online weeklies, the Darien Times and the 
Darien News-Review, three exclusively online local news websites, HamletHub 
Darien, the Darien Patch and The Daily Voice, Darien, and an online 'Insider 
Guide' called AllAboutDarien.com. Most public meetings are filmed and broadcast 
live, and recorded for later broadcast by Cablevision's Channel 79 Government 
Access.[58] Darien had a reputation for anti-Semitism and racism in the 
20th century.[59] In 1931, a private developer of beachfront property had 
an easement for access to the beach that stated beach privileges were never 
to be extended to "any person or persons of the Hebrew race."[60] In 1947, 
Laura Hobson's novel Gentleman's Agreement made Darien briefly notable 
for "the town's practice of not letting Jews spend the night."[61] More 
recently, the town has struggled with the issue of affordable housing. 
Darien is 95% white. Affordable housing was built, but the priority list 
was such that it effectively excluded minorities by giving excessive priority 
to current and former residents. In 2010, the U.S. Department of Justice 
opened an investigation into Darien for possible violations of the Fair 
Housing Act.[62] In 2012, after the controversial legislation had been 
repealed, they appeared satisfied and closed their investigation. The town 
also adopted a policy of verifying incomes for people applying for affordable 
housing units and maintaining a waiting list.[60] Darien is one of the 
few municipalities in Connecticut that comply with the State's mandate 
to report the racial and ethnic makeup of people stopped by the police. 
82% of the people stopped are White, 12% are Black, 15% are Hispanic. This 
is a higher proportion of Black people than live in the town, but consistent 
with the makeup of the population of the general area.[63] In July of 2016, 
a Black man accused the Darien Police of racial profiling when he was stopped 
on his way to work.[64] The man uploaded footage of the encounter online 
which soon reached over 50,000 views, followed by a Bridgeport man's online 
petition for an apology and racial sensitivity training for officers.[65][66] 
The Darien Police denied the allegation and no apology was issued.[67] 
The incident prompted U.S Representative Jim Himes to host a panel discussion 
at the Darien Library on race relations and institutional racism in Darien 
and Connecticut.[68] Several people notable for their esteemed place in 
American history have called Darien home: Charles Lindbergh the late aviator, 
and his wife, author Anne Morrow Lindbergh lived on Tokeneke Trail. Steel 
magnate and philanthropist Andrew Carnegie vacationed for several summers 
at what became the Convent of the Sacred Heart (divided into many private 
estates in the 1970s) at Long Neck Point.[40] Christopher Shays, the former 
Republican congressman representing Connecticut's Fourth District, was 
born in Darien (and now lives in Bridgeport). Jimmy Lee, former Vice Chairman 
of J.P. Morgan, lived in Darien until his unexpected death in 2015.[69] 
Actors and actresses who have lived in town include former resident Christopher 
Plummer, Kate Bosworth, Topher Grace, and Chloë Sevigny. Actress Carol 
Kane attended Cherry Lawn School in Darien until 1965. Film director Gus 
Van Sant also went to high school in Darien. Jazz saxophonist Gerry Mulligan 
lived in Darien in later life and died there in 1996. Guitarist Chris Risola 
grew up in Darien. Musician Moby lived in Darien during his adolescence. 
Rudolph Valentino was said to have had a Spanish-style home at the entrance 
of Salem Straits. Emmy-winning television producer and writer Tom Gammill 
also grew up in Darien. Christopher Plummer owned the Tudor manor on Long 
Neck's eastern shore. People famous in other fields have also called Darien 
home: Leslie Groves, military head of the Manhattan Project, lived in town 
after the project ended. Paul Manship, sculptor of the Prometheus figure 
at Rockefeller Center, spent summers living on Leroy Avenue and working 
on his art in the early 1930s. Photojournalist Margaret Bourke-White lived 
in town first with author Erskine Caldwell, then in the same home after 
their divorce. Helen Frankenthaler, a major American Abstract Expressionist 
painter, lived in Darien in later life and maintained her primary studio 
there.[70] Novelist and playwright Richard Bissell lived in Darien from 
the early 1950s to the mid-1970s. Artist John Stobart lived on Crane Road 
for many years, and prints of his historical painting of Ring's End Landing 
were popular in the 1970s, after the town's 150th anniversary. Producer 
and NBC executive Grant Tinker reared his family there in the 1950s. Former 
Benton & Bowles advertising agency executive and noted big band radio broadcaster 
G. Emerson Cole lived in Darien for 35 years. Kiss drummer Peter Criss 
once owned a home in Darien. Emily Barringer (1876–1961), the world's first 
female ambulance surgeon and the first woman to secure a surgical residency, 
resided in Darien (and New Canaan) until her death. Current notable residents 
include New York Yankees General Manager Brian Cashman; Steve Wilkos, host 
of The Steve Wilkos Show; and 60 Minutes correspondent and CBS Evening 
News anchor Scott Pelley. Local news anchor Rebecca Surran of News 12 Connecticut 
and CNN anchor Ashleigh Banfield are also residents of Darien. One infamous 
native of Darien is convicted rapist Alex Kelly, who fled the United States 
to escape prosecution. His story was dramatized in the television movie 
Crime in Connecticut: The Story of Alex Kelly. Films at least partially 
