Darryl Andrew Kile (December 2, 1968 – June 22, 2002) was an American Major 
League Baseball starting pitcher. He pitched from 1991 to 2002 for three 
different teams in his career. In his first season for the Cardinals, he 
won 20 games in 2000 as the team reached the postseason for the first time 
in four years. They advanced to the playoffs in the next two seasons. Kile 
was known for his sharp, big-breaking curveball. He died of coronary disease 
in Chicago, where he and the Cardinals were staying for a weekend series 
against the Chicago Cubs. He was the first active major league player to 
die during the regular season since 1979, when the New York Yankees' Thurman 
Munson died in an aviation accident. Kile was selected by the Houston Astros 
in the 30th round of the 1987 Major League draft. Having been successful 
with the Tucson Toros, the Astros' AAA club in the Pacific Coast League, 
Kile entered the majors in 1991, going 7–11 in 22 starts. In his first 
major league start on April 24, 1991, Kile had a no-hitter going when he 
was lifted after six innings by manager Art Howe, who wanted to protect 
the 22-year-old rookie's arm. Kile's breakthrough year came in 1993 when 
he went 15–8 with a 3.51 earned run average and made the All-Star team. 
On September 8, Kile pitched a no-hitter against the New York Mets.[1] 
He pitched seven seasons with the Astros, mostly as a starter. Another 
strong season was 1997, when he went 19–7, compiled a 2.57 ERA, made the 
All-Star team again, threw a career-high 255 2⁄3 innings, and pitched four 
shutouts. He finished fifth in voting for the NL Cy Young Award. Kile made 
his first postseason appearance in Game 1 of the 1997 National League Division 
Series against the Atlanta Braves, giving up only two hits but suffering 
a hard-luck 2–1 loss. Atlanta swept Houston in the best-of-five series. 
In 1998, Kile signed with the Colorado Rockies as a free agent. Kile suffered 
control problems, allowing hitters to lay off his curveball. After two 
seasons in which he was a combined 21–30 and posted ERAs of 5.20 and 6.61, 
Kile was traded to the Cardinals. In his first season with St. Louis, Kile 
went 20–9, becoming the first Cardinal pitcher since John Tudor and Joaquín 
Andújar in 1985 to win twenty games in a season. He made his third All-Star 
team and again finished fifth in NL Cy Young Award voting. He earned the 
first playoff victory of his career in Game 2 of the 2000 NLDS against 
Atlanta, but suffered two losses in the NL Championship Series, which the 
Cardinals lost to the Mets in five games. Kile went 16–11 in 2001, and 
the Cardinals made the playoffs again, losing to the eventual world champion 
Arizona Diamondbacks in the NLDS. (Kile got a no-decision in his Game 3 
start). Kile threw 227 1⁄3 innings and compiled a 3.09 ERA that season, 
despite having an injured shoulder which required surgery after the Cardinals 
were eliminated from the playoffs. He spent the offseason rehabbing and 
was ready for the start of the 2002 season. In twelve seasons as a major 
league pitcher, Kile never went on the disabled list.[2] On June 18, Kile 
pitched in an interleague game against the Anaheim Angels, scattering six 
hits over seven and two-thirds innings, allowing one run. He exited the 
game in the eighth inning to a standing ovation. Kile and the Cardinals 
won the game, 7–2, and moved into first place in the NL's Central Division, 
a spot they would hold on to for the rest of the 2002 season. That same 
day, longtime Cardinals broadcaster Jack Buck died. On June 22, 2002 during 
pregame warmups for what would have been a day game in Chicago against 
the rival Cubs, team personnel noted Kile's absence. Hotel staff entered 
Kile's room and discovered him in his bed, under the covers, dead of a 
heart attack. An autopsy determined that the cause of death was a 90-percent 
blockage in two coronary arteries.[3] The details leading up to and following 
Kile's death are detailed to some degree in Buzz Bissinger's book, Three 
Nights in August. An entire chapter is dedicated to Kile. Cubs catcher 
Joe Girardi announced at Wrigley Field that the afternoon's game versus 
the Cardinals had been canceled, though he did not announce that the cancellation 
was prompted by Kile's death. Girardi tearfully gave the news at 2:37 p.m. 
CDT, broadcast regionally on Fox: "I thank you for your patience. We regret 
to inform you because of a tragedy in the Cardinal family, that the commissioner 
has canceled the game today. Please be respectful. You will find out eventually 
what has happened, and I ask that you say a prayer for the Cardinals' family." 
The game was rescheduled and made up later in the year on August 31, a 
10–4 Cardinal defeat. Jason Simontacchi, who pitched for the Cardinals, 
was visibly emotional during the game since Kile was a mentor to him. Later 
that season, when the Cardinals clinched the Central Division championship 
in a game against the Astros, teammate Albert Pujols carried Kile's #57 
jersey, on a hanger, to the celebration on the field. Kile was survived 
by his wife, Flynn, his twins, daughter Sierra and son Kannon, and son 
Ryker.[4] The Cardinals honored Kile by placing a small "DK 57" sign in 
the home bullpen. This sign was carried over to the new Busch Stadium and 
remains today. The team wrote "DK 57" on their hats. The team put chalk 
and markers in the Busch Stadium concourses so fans could write similar 
messages on their caps. In the All-Star Game, former pitcher Matt Morris 
wrote DK 57 on his hands and held them up when they announced his name 
in honor of his fallen teammate and close friend. Since Kile's death, the 
Astros, Rockies, and Cardinals have not assigned number 57 to another player, 
although none of those teams has formally retired the number. The Astros 
honored Kile with a memorial plaque that hangs along the left field wall 
at Minute Maid Park under the 1997 Central Division Championship banner, 
the last season Kile played for Houston before signing with Colorado. The 
Rockies have a memorial near the bullpens. It is circular, says "DK 57", 
and is on pinstripes. In 2003, the Darryl Kile Good Guy Award was established 
and is presented annually to the Astros player and Cardinals player who 
best exemplify Kile's traits of "a good teammate, a great friend, a fine 
father and a humble man." The winners are selected, respectively, by the 
Houston and St. Louis chapters of the Baseball Writers' Association of 
America.[5] The first recipient of the award on the Astros was Jeff Bagwell.[6] 
The first recipient of the award on the Cardinals was Mike Matheny.[5] 
Kile was given an exemption by the Baseball Writers' Association of America 
and placed on the ballot for the Baseball Hall of Fame in 2003. With seven 
