David Andrew Stieb (/ˈstiːb/; born July 22, 1957) is a former Major League 
Baseball right-handed starting pitcher for the Toronto Blue Jays.[1] A 
seven-time All-Star, he also won The Sporting News' Pitcher of the Year 
Award in 1982. Stieb won 140 games in the 1980s, the second-highest total 
by a pitcher in that decade, behind only Jack Morris.[2] Dave Stieb was 
inducted into the Ontario Sports Hall of Fame in 1995.[3] Born in Santa 
Ana, California, Stieb played varsity baseball at Southern Illinois University[1] 
as an outfielder.[4] Scouted by Bobby Mattick and Al LaMacchia of the Blue 
Jays as an outfield prospect in a varsity game, Stieb's performance failed 
to impress until he was pressed into service as a relief pitcher. His pitching 
surprised and convinced the Blue Jays to draft him.[4] He played for the 
Blue Jays from 1979 to 1992 and again in 1998. On September 2, 1990, he 
pitched the first (and, to date, only) no-hitter in Blue Jays history, 
defeating the Cleveland Indians 3–0.[5] Previously, on September 24 and 
30, 1988, Stieb had no-hitters broken up with two outs and two strikes 
in the top of the ninth inning in two consecutive home starts.[6] He also 
took a no-hitter into the ninth inning in a 1985 game; this bid was broken 
up by back-to-back home runs and Stieb being replaced in the game before 
he recorded an out in the ninth.[7] On August 4, 1989, he had a perfect 
game broken up with two outs in the ninth. It was the third time in two 
seasons that Stieb had lost a no-hitter with two out in the ninth inning.[8] 
After an excellent 1990 season, a series of shoulder and back injuries 
early in the 1991 season ended his effective pitching years, culminating 
in a 4–6 season in 1992 that resulted in his release.[9] Despite this, 
he was awarded a World Series ring, after the Blue Jays won their first 
championship later that year. In 1993, he played four games with the Chicago 
White Sox, before finally retiring due to lingering back problems.[9] In 
1998, after a five-year hiatus from baseball, Stieb returned to the Blue 
Jays and pitched in 19 games.[1] He recorded one win and two saves, and 
started three games. In 1985, Stieb signed with the Blue Jays what was 
then one of the richest contracts in baseball.[10] The contract, including 
options exercisable by the team, was for a term of ten years and specified 
a salary that increased to $1.9 million in 1993, $2 million in 1994, and 
$2.1 million in 1995.[11] While this was seen to be generous at the time 
the contract was signed, by the time the later years of the contract came 
around this was a bargain, considering that several players were receiving 
several times the amount per year. The Blue Jays voluntarily renegotiated 
the last three years of his contract to pay him a higher amount in recognition 
of his years of service. During his career, Stieb won 176 games while losing 
137. Only Jack Morris won more games in the 1980s.[2] Stieb holds career 
records for Toronto pitchers in wins, games started, shutouts, strikeouts, 
complete games and a variety of other categories. Stieb appeared in seven 
All-Star games, also a Blue Jays team record. On August 29, 2010, Stieb 
threw the ceremonial first pitch at the Rogers Centre, celebrating the 
20th anniversary of his no-hitter game, with the anniversary coming four 
days after the celebration. Stieb's number 37 was engraved on the pitcher's 
mound for the game. Stieb entered the league primarily as a power pitcher,[12] 
relying on a high, inside fastball to strike batters out. The brushback 
pitch was an integral part of his repertoire to back batters off the plate,[13] 
and was especially tough on right-handed hitters in this respect. As a 
result, he led the league in hit batsmen a few years.[14] But arguably 
his best pitch was his slider that had a late and very sharp break, especially 
difficult for right-handed batters to handle. Later on in his career he 
developed his breaking ball repertoire, and he became very effective with 
a "dead fish" curveball[15] that would break into the dirt as the batter 
swung. Stieb had a high-strung personality and was known as a fierce competitor 
on the mound; he was regularly seen having animated conversations with 
himself during pitches when in difficult situations. Whereas with other 
pitchers this would be seen as a sign of weakness, with Stieb it was perceived 
as the best way to motivate himself to get out of a jam. Early in his career, 
Stieb would also frequently yell at his teammates after errors, or plays 
that he thought they should have made.[4] In later years, Stieb mellowed 
somewhat, although a fierce glare after a botched play was still not uncommon. 
Stieb is still involved with the Blue Jays spring training camps and currently 
resides in Reno, Nevada. Stieb's autobiography was titled Tomorrow I'll 
