David Arthur Kingman (born December 21, 1948), nicknamed "Kong" and "Sky 
King", is a former Major League Baseball left fielder, first baseman, third 
baseman, and designated hitter. The 6' 6" Kingman was a powerful hitter 
known for his long home runs, with one measured at over 530 feet. He also 
struck out frequently, and usually posted a low batting average and on-base 
percentage. His 1,816 strikeouts was the fourth-highest total in MLB history 
at the time of his retirement. As a result of the increase in frequency 
of strikeouts in the intervening period, he currently ranks fifteenth as 
of August 2015.[1] Born in Pendleton, Oregon, Kingman moved with his family 
to Illinois and he attended Prospect High School, where he was a center 
and a forward on the basketball team, a wide receiver and safety on the 
football team, and a star pitcher on the baseball team. He was drafted 
by the California Angels out of high school in the second round of the 
1967 Major League Baseball draft, and by the Baltimore Orioles in the first 
round of the 1968 draft, but chose, instead, to attend the University of 
Southern California (USC) to play college baseball for the USC Trojans 
under coach Rod Dedeaux. Kingman began as a pitcher before being converted 
to an outfielder. In 1970, he was named an All-American and led the Trojans 
to the College World Series championship. He was selected by the San Francisco 
Giants with the first pick of the 1970 secondary phase draft. Kingman came 
up as an outfielder and first baseman with the San Francisco Giants. He 
made his major league debut on July 30, 1971, pinch running for Willie 
McCovey, and finishing the game at first base. He hit a home run in his 
next game,[2] and hit two more a day later.[3] On April 16, 1972, the second 
day of the season, Kingman hit for the cycle in the Giants' 10-6 victory 
over the Houston Astros. A day earlier, he made his debut at third base, 
a position he would play off and on for the remainder of his Giants career. 
Kingman also made his major league debut on the mound with the Giants, 
pitching two innings of "mop up duty" in an 11-0 loss to the Cincinnati 
Reds on April 15, 1973.[4] He pitched again in the mop up role on May 13 
in a 15-3 loss to the Los Angeles Dodgers.[5] In both games, he pitched 
the final two innings and gave up two earned runs. In 1974, he committed 
twelve errors in 59 chances at third, and lost his starting job to Steve 
Ontiveros. Following the season, the Giants sold their rights to him to 
the New York Mets. Kingman played twelve games at third with the Mets; 
however, the Mets eventually abandoned the idea of Kingman as a third baseman 
and kept him primarily in the outfield. He emerged as a slugger upon his 
arrival in New York City, setting a club record with 36 home runs in 1975. 
He also scored 65 runs, the highest percentage of runs scored on homers 
for anyone that hit more than 30 in a season. A year later, he broke his 
own record with 37 homers, and was elected to start in right field for 
the 1976 National League All-Star team. The best game of Kingman's Mets 
career occurred on June 4, 1976 when he hit three home runs against the 
Los Angeles Dodgers in the Mets' 11-0 victory (the first of five times 
Kingman accomplished this feat in his major league career and the second 
in Mets franchise history). Kingman was batting only .209 with nine home 
runs when he became one of the three players traded in the infamous "Midnight 
Massacre" in New York.[6] On June 15, 1977, the Mets traded Kingman to 
the San Diego Padres for minor league pitcher Paul Siebert and Bobby Valentine; 
Tom Seaver was traded to the Cincinnati Reds for Pat Zachry, Doug Flynn, 
Steve Henderson and Dan Norman; and Mike Phillips was traded to the St. 
Louis Cardinals for Joel Youngblood. Kingman did not play well with the 
Padres, was waived by the team on September 6 and claimed by the California 
Angels. On September 15, Kingman became one of only a handful of players 
to play for four major league teams in the same season (and the only one 
to play in each division in baseball in a single year since the establishment 
of divisional play in 1969) when he was traded to the Mets' crosstown rivals, 
the Yankees, for Randy Stein and cash. Although Kingman's four home runs 
in eight games helped propel the Yankees into the post-season over the 
second place Boston Red Sox and Baltimore Orioles, he could not participate 
in the team's push to a World Series crown as he was added to the roster 
after the August 31 cutoff date. Following the season, Kingman signed as 
a free agent with the Chicago Cubs. Kingman had an excellent performance 
in Los Angeles on May 14, 1978, when he again hit three home runs against 
the Dodgers, including a three run shot in the top of the 15th inning that 
gave the Cubs a 10-7 victory. Eight of the Cubs' ten runs were driven in 
by Kingman.[7] Following the game, radio reporter Paul Olden asked Dodgers' 
manager Tommy Lasorda his opinion of Kingman's performance that day, inspiring 
an oft-replayed (and censored) obscenity-laced tirade.[8] The best season 
of Kingman's career came with the Cubs in 1979, when he batted .288 with 
a National League-leading 48 homers, as well as 115 runs batted in (second 
to San Diego's Dave Winfield's 118) and 97 runs scored. He hit three home 
runs in a game twice that season, both coming in Cubs losses. The first 
was a slugging duel with Mike Schmidt on May 17 at Wrigley Field; Kingman 
hit three home runs and drove in 6 while Schmidt hit two in the game, with 
Schmidt delivering his second in the top of the tenth inning to give the 
Phillies a 23-22 victory. Kingman's third home run during this game is 
likely the longest home run of his career, and believed to be the longest 
in the history of Wrigley Field. There is a street called Kenmore Avenue 
that T's into Waveland Avenue behind left-center field. Kenmore is lined 
with houses, and the ball Kingman launched landed on the third porch roof 
on the east side of Kenmore, a shot estimated at 550 feet.[9] The second 
three homer game for Kingman that year came against his former team on 
July 28 at Shea Stadium in a 6-4 loss to the Mets.[10] His .613 slugging 
percentage was almost 50 points higher than that of his next closest National 
League competition, Mike Schmidt. Kingman finished eleventh in NL MVP balloting 
that year and led the league in strikeouts for the first time in his career 
(131). In 1980, Kingman (whose personality former Mets teammate John Stearns 
had once compared to a tree trunk)[11] began to assert himself more outwardly. 
He dumped a bucket of ice water on Daily Herald reporter Don Friske's head 
late in spring training.[12] Kingman regularly insisted he was misquoted, 
and he began appearing regularly in the Chicago Tribune, as the nominal 
author of a column ghostwritten by Chicago Park District employee Gerald 
Pfeiffer.[13] Mike Royko, then writing for the rival Chicago Sun-Times, 
parodied Kingman's column with a series using the byline "Dave Dingdong."[14] 
The Cubs held a Dave Kingman T-shirt Day promotion in conjunction with 
its 11–3 loss to the Pittsburgh Pirates on August 7, but the man of honor 
instead spent the afternoon at Navy Pier promoting Kawasaki Jet Skis at 
ChicagoFest.[15] In January 1980, the Payson heirs sold the Mets franchise 
to the Doubleday publishing company for $21.1 million. Nelson Doubleday, 
Jr. was named chairman of the board while minority shareholder Fred Wilpon 
took the role of club president. On February 28, 1981, eager to win back 
a fan base that had become disenchanted with the team, the Mets reacquired 
Kingman from the Cubs for Steve Henderson and cash. In separate deals, 
the new organization also reacquired Rusty Staub, and two seasons later, 
Tom Seaver. Kingman primarily played first base upon his return to the 
Mets in 1981, and exclusively there his second season back in New York. 
In 1982, he tied his own Mets' single-season home run record, but also 
batted just .204, the lowest batting average ever recorded for a first 
baseman with enough plate appearances to qualify for the batting title. 
Leading the league in home runs that year, it is also the lowest batting 
average for any season's home run leader.[16] Additionally, he accomplished 
the dubious feat of leading the league in home runs while having a lower 
batting average than the Cy Young Award winner, (Steve Carlton, .218).[17] 
Kingman led the NL in strike outs both of his first two seasons in New 
York (105 in 1981 & 156 in 1982). On June 15, 1983, the sixth anniversary 
of the Midnight Massacre, the Mets acquired first baseman Keith Hernandez 
from the St. Louis Cardinals for pitchers Neil Allen and Rick Ownbey. Kingman 
remained with the team for the remainder of the season in a limited role. 
He was released at the end of the season, and signed as a free agent with 
the Oakland Athletics. On April 16, 1984, Kingman collected his fifth and 
final 3-homer game, in a 9-6 win over the Seattle Mariners.[18] A mediocre 
to poor fielder, he made just nine appearances at first base in 1984, and 
was the A's regular designated hitter the remainder of the time. For the 
season, Kingman hit 35 home runs and drove in 118 runs to be named the 
American League's Comeback Player of the Year, and finish 13th in MVP balloting. 
His 35 homers for the year were a record for a player in his final season 
until being surpassed by David Ortiz in 2016.[19] In three seasons as a 
DH in Oakland, he collected at least 30 home runs and 90 RBIs in each of 
those years. He also had two at-bats in this period which did not result 
in home runs, but nonetheless made news: in the Metrodome at Minnesota, 
on May 4, 1984, he hit a pop-up that flew into a hole in the roof and got 
stuck for a ground rule double. In a game in Seattle on April 11, 1985, 
he hit a hard drive to left field which struck a speaker hanging from the 
roof of the Kingdome, bounced back and was caught for an out.[20] During 
his final year in Oakland in 1986, Kingman sent a live rat in a pink box 
to Sue Fornoff, a sportswriter for The Sacramento Bee.[21] The rat had 
a tag attached to it that read, "My name is Sue." Fornoff claimed that 
Kingman had told her that women do not belong in the clubhouse, and that 
he harassed her several times since she began covering the team the year 
before. Kingman himself said it was intended as a harmless practical joke.[22] 
The A's fined Kingman $3,500 and warned that he would be released if a 
similar incident occurred again. When Kingman's contract expired the following 
offseason, the A's dropped him and refused to renew his contract. After 
his release from the A's in 1986, Dave Kingman never played in the Major 
Leagues again. Kingman signed with the San Francisco Giants during the 
1987 season. After twenty minor league games in which he batted .203, he 
retired. In 1992, his first year of eligibility for the Baseball Hall of 
Fame, he appeared on just three ballots, excluding him from future Baseball 
Writers' Association of America voting. He was the first player to hit 
400 or more home runs without being eventually inducted into the Hall of 
