David Littlefield (born June 16, 1960) is a former Major League Baseball 
executive, who is currently the vice president of player development for 
the Detroit Tigers. Littlefield was employed as Senior Vice President and 
General Manager of the Pittsburgh Pirates, a position he held from July 
13, 2001 to September 7, 2007. He took over as GM for Roy Smith, who had 
assumed the position on a temporary basis after the firing of GM Cam Bonifay 
on June 11. Littlefield received a large amount of negative publicity after 
the Pirates lost five prospects from their minor league system with the 
first six picks in the 2003 Rule 5 draft, even though they had unused spots 
on their 40-man roster and could have protected several of the players 
if they had chosen to do so. Chris Shelton, who had recently been honored 
as the team's minor league player of the year, went with the first pick, 
and he was followed in short order by Rich Thompson, Frank Brooks, Jeff 
Bennett, and José Bautista.[1] Baseball executives present at the draft 
laughed openly at Littlefield's embarrassment, and the laughter intensified 
after the Pirates declined to make a pick of their own.[1] The Cincinnati 
Reds, picking seventh, had all five Pirate players listed on their draft 
board and were frustrated to see them all go too soon, and an anonymous 
executive from another American League team said that his team had also 
planned to take a Pirate prospect, refraining only because in his words, 
"There wasn't anything left."[1] Littlefield acquired a reputation throughout 
MLB as a difficult trading partner, in that his demands during negotiations 
were often seen as grossly excessive.[2] It was rumored that Littlefield 
turned down a trade offer in 2005 with former GM of the Philadelphia Phillies, 
Ed Wade, in which the Pirates would swap pitcher Kip Wells for the Phillies' 
Ryan Howard.[3] There were also unconfirmed reports that Littlefield turned 
down trading Howard for pitcher Kris Benson a year earlier.[4] Littlefield 
was criticized for trading players such as Jason Schmidt, Jason Kendall, 
Sean Casey, Aramis Ramírez, Chris Young, Gary Matthews, Jr., and Kenny 
Lofton for little or nothing in return.[citation needed] While small market 
teams thrive on trading established veterans for packages of talented minor 
leaguers, Littlefield repeatedly asked for lower-ceiling "Major League 
ready" prospects in return. As a result, when he left, the Pirates had 
a plethora of mid-to-late 20s, borderline Major Leaguers, and very few 
young, impact prospects within the system. This strategy runs contrary 
to that of successful low-payroll teams like the A's, Twins, and Marlins.[5][6] 
In 2003, Littlefield approached the San Diego Padres with a trade proposal 
in which the Pirates would receive Xavier Nady, Óliver Pérez, and minor 
league pitcher Cory Stewart in exchange for star outfielder Brian Giles. 
The Padres refused to surrender Nady, so Littlefield and the Pirates agreed 
to accept Jason Bay instead.[7] Bay immediately emerged as a star, winning 
the National League Rookie of the Year award in 2004, while Nady spent 
the next three seasons as a part-time player with the Padres and the New 
York Mets. Two years later, Littlefield was successful in trading for Nady 
in a deal for inconsistent pitcher Óliver Pérez, who has continued to be 
inconsistent with New York, as well as veteran reliever, and soon to be 
free agent, Roberto Hernández and the compensatory draft pick the Mets 
received when Hernández left as a free agent that offseason. Among his 
most widely lampooned transactions to date was the trade of pitcher Chris 
Young, in whom the Pirates had invested $1.5 million, to Montreal for Matt 
Herges in December 2002. Herges was promptly released in spring training, 
while Young was hailed as one best young pitchers in baseball four years 
later after having been traded from the Montreal Expos to the Texas Rangers 
and, finally, to the San Diego Padres, where he had an outstanding season 
in 2007 but has struggled since. Similarly, the 21-year-old Leo Núñez was 
traded to Kansas City in December 2004; in return, the Pirates received 
39-year-old Benito Santiago in order fill an immediate hole at the catcher 
position. Núñez has had some successful stretches for the Royals; Santiago 
had 6 hits with the Pirates before being released one month into the 2005 
season. Some argue that trading away future impact players has severely 
hindered the Pirates in recent years. [8] On July 31, 2007, Littlefield 
traded outfielder Rajai Davis to the San Francisco Giants for pitcher Matt 
Morris. The move was widely criticized, as Morris, who was 7-7 with a 4.35 
ERA at the time of the trade, was slated to make $9.5 million in 2008. 
Many were surprised that the Pirates would take on such a large contract 
(especially without having the Giants pick up part of it), as their 2007 
Opening Day payroll was just $38.5 million. [9] At the time of the trade, 
the Pirates were 42-62, 14.5 games out of first place.[10] Though he was 
frequently criticized for some trades that worked out poorly in the long 
run, Littlefield also managed to acquire the bulk of the Pirates' lineup 
through trades during his tenure. Jason Bay, Freddy Sanchez, Adam LaRoche, 
José Bautista, and Xavier Nady were all acquired through trades. In his 
final season as GM, only one of the seven players with over 400 at-bats 
on the team, Ronny Paulino, was not acquired through a trade. At the same 
time, this group finished in last place in their division—so even his more 
successful trades weren't enough to field a contender. During Littlefield's 
tenure, the Pirates were widely criticized for taking players that were 
perceived to be more signable than talented.[citation needed] The most 
notable examples of this were in 2002 and 2007. In 2002, the Pirates passed 
over Melvin Upton, Jr., widely regarded as the top prospect at the time, 
with the first overall pick—also passing over other highly touted prospects, 
including Prince Fielder, Zack Greinke, Khalil Greene, Scott Kazmir, Nick 
Swisher, Matt Cain, Cole Hamels and Jeff Francoeur—and drafted Bryan Bullington, 
who Littlefield said could be a "good #3 pitcher". After battling with 
injuries, Bullington was waived by the Pirates in 2008. In 2007, Littlefield 
and the Pirates passed over the top-ranked college hitting prospect, Matt 
Wieters, and instead drafted pitcher Daniel Moskos. Moskos has had an inconsistent 
career in the minors, while Wieters is a two-time All-Star and two-time 
Gold Glove Award winner. Littlefield's other #1 draft picks were Paul Maholm 
(2003), Neil Walker (2004), Andrew McCutchen (2005), and Brad Lincoln (2006). 
Lincoln was drafted two picks before now superstar pitcher Clayton Kershaw 
was drafted by Los Angeles[1] Under Littlefield's direction, the Pirates 
were less aggressive than other teams in signing players from Latin America. 
At the end of his tenure, the team had no Latin American impact prospects 
within their minor league system, and those on the major league roster 
were regarded by many as marginal talents, most signed or acquired before 
Littlefield's tenure: José Bautista, Ronny Paulino, Jose Castillo, Salomón 
Torres, Dámaso Marte, and Tony Armas. The Pirates were widely criticized 
for failing to employ a Latin American scouting director until hiring Rene 
Gayo nearly three years after Littlefield took over as General Manager. 
In addition, the team's facilities were widely considered to be among the 
worst in baseball. While other teams have recognized the benefits of signing 
such talent at relatively reasonable prices, the Pirates did not extend 
a signing bonus of more than $85,000 to a Latin American prospect during 
Littlefield's tenure. Some contend (particularly beat writer Dejan Kovacevic) 
that, as much as any other decision during Littlefield's tenure, the lack 
of emphasis on competing in Latin America was one of the most confounding 
and debilitating for the organization.[11] Littlefield was fired on the 
morning of September 7, 2007. The announcement came shortly before the 
Pirates could clinch their seventh consecutive losing season under his 
management. The Pirates never finished higher than 4th place in the NL 
Central. Brian Graham, the director of player development for the Pirates, 
served as interim general manager until new Pirates GM Neal Huntington 
took over September 25, 2007.[12] In the first 2 years following the Dave 
Littlefield era, almost every player acquired by Littlefield was purged 
from the Pirates major league roster, most of them via trade. These trades 
were made primarily to restock a farm system that was left completely bereft 
of impact talent and needed to be restocked in order to make the Pirates 
a long term contender. While many of these trades were roundly criticized 
by fans and media alike, Neal Huntington, Pirates GM at the time the trades 
were made, justified them by saying that he wasn't breaking up the 1927 
Yankees.[citation needed] On December 19, 2007, Littlefield was named a 
scout for the Chicago Cubs.[13] On October 20, 2014, Littlefield was named 
a scout for the Detroit Tigers.[14] On August 11, 2015, Littlefield was 
