David Braxton "Dave" Flemming (born May 31, 1976) is an American sportscaster, 
currently working as a play-by-play announcer for the San Francisco Giants 
of Major League Baseball as well as college football, college basketball, 
and Monday Night Baseball on ESPN and NBA basketball on ESPN Radio. Flemming 
grew up in Alexandria, Virginia, listening to current Giants partner Jon 
Miller call Baltimore Orioles games. In 2004, Flemming began his first 
full year as an announcer for the team, working with Miller, Duane Kuiper 
and Mike Krukow on San Francisco station KNBR and the Giants Radio Network. 
He currently splits time between the Giants' radio and television broadcasts, 
in addition to his ESPN work. After graduating from St. Stephen's & St. 
Agnes School in 1994, Flemming received bachelor's and master's degrees 
in classics from Stanford University and a master's degree in broadcast 
journalism from the S.I. Newhouse School of Communications at Syracuse 
University. While at Stanford, Flemming broadcast Stanford Cardinal baseball, 
men's and women's basketball, and football and served as Sports Director 
at KZSU. In 2000, he broadcast play-by-play for the Visalia Oaks and served 
as the assistant General Manager, before moving on to the Pawtucket Red 
Sox. Flemming teamed with PawSox radio broadcaster Andy Freed for three 
seasons on the eight-station PawSox Radio Network. His rise in the baseball 
broadcasting industry was fast, as he went from Class-A ball (Visalia) 
in 2000 to Triple-A from 2001–2003 (Pawtucket) and finally the Giants. 
In twelve seasons calling Giants games, Flemming has been a part of many 
memorable broadcasting moments. On April 27, 2003, in his second ever major 
league broadcast, working as a fill-in for Jon Miller, Flemming broadcast 
the Phillies' Kevin Millwood's no-hitter against the Giants. In some ways 
it was an indication of the moments to come. Barry Bonds provided several 
of those. On May 28, 2006, Flemming had the chance for his voice to go 
into the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum when he was set to call 
Barry Bonds' 715th home run, passing Babe Ruth for second place on the 
all-time home run list. However, as he was making the call, his microphone 
went dead: Flemming, unaware of the problem, continued to make the call, 
but all listeners heard was about ten seconds of dead air. Only Duane Kuiper's 
call on Fox Sports Net's broadcast was sent to the Hall of Fame.[1] On 
September 23 of the same year, during Flemming's third-inning call of a 
game against the Milwaukee Brewers at Miller Park, Bonds hit a home run 
off left-hander Chris Capuano. This was Bonds' 734th career homer (26th 
for the season), which broke Hank Aaron's record for National League home 
runs. (Aaron hit his last 21 homers as an American League player.) Eventually 
on August 4, 2007, Flemming was able to call Bonds' record-tying 755th 
home run in San Diego on the radio against the San Diego Padres. That call 
of #755 proved to be a notable one in a weekend of milestone moments for 
Bonds and Alex Rodriguez. Later that week, the New York Times sports media 
critic Richard Sandomir wrote of the collection of broadcasts that past 
weekend, "But the best one on radio or TV came from Dave Flemming, the 
Giants’ radio announcer, who said clearly and excitedly on KNBR: "Bonds 
swings, 2-1 pitch. He drives one to left. Going back on the ball is Hairston. 
It's gone. Off the facing of the second deck. And Barry Bonds has equaled 
baseball's all-time home run record: 755 for Bonds." On July 14, 2006, 
for a Friday night home game, Flemming made his television broadcast debut 
for the Giants. Since then, he has appeared both on CSN Bay Area and KNTV 
during the baseball season. Other milestone broadcasts Flemming contributed 
to include the calls of Greg Maddux and Randy Johnson's 300th pitching 
victories, and the Giants' Jonathan Sánchez's no hitter against the San 
Diego Padres on July 11, 2009. On November 1, 2010, during the seventh 
inning in Game 5 of the World Series at Rangers Ballpark, Flemming made 
the winning home run call that eventually sealed the Giants' win, and thus 
the World Series:[citation needed] On June 13, 2012, Flemming made the 
radio call of the final out of Matt Cain's perfect game, the first in the 
history of the Giants. In 2013 Flemming (along with Kuiper and Miller) 
won an Emmy for his coverage of the perfect game. Later that season, on 
October 28, 2012, Flemming made the call for the final out of the 2012 
World Series.[citation needed] Starting in 2008, Flemming began broadcasting 
Stanford Cardinal football and basketball. He spent three years as the 
voice of Stanford basketball on the radio, and six years in that capacity 
with Stanford football before leaving the Stanford broadcasts to concentrate 
on his network work. The period Flemming served as the voice of Stanford 
football coincided with perhaps the most successful stretch in the school's 
football history. Flemming's first broadcast on the Stanford radio network 
was the epic upset of #1 ranked USC on October 6, 2007. Over the next six 
seasons, Flemming was behind the microphone for the record performances 
of Toby Gerhart and Andrew Luck, and for three BCS bowl appearances, including 
a Rose Bowl victory over Wisconsin on January 1, 2013. Flemming became 
a regular College Basketball on ESPN announcer in 2010, after having called 
a couple of games for the network the previous season. He primarily works 
Pac-12, Big 12, and WCC games for ESPN, teaming with Sean Farnham, Fran 
Fraschilla, and other analysts. He has also called baseball for ESPN and 
ESPN Radio, and worked a season calling college football games for the 
Pac-12 Network in 2012 before shifting to College Football on ESPN in 2013. 
Also in 2013, Flemming began calling NBA games on ESPN Radio and contributing 
to Little League World Series coverage on ESPN and ABC. In 2015, Flemming 
began calling NFL games for ESPN Radio as well.[2] In 2016, he began calling 
select Monday Night Baseball games for ESPN,[3] as well as College Football 
Thursday Primetime games.[4] Flemming and his wife, Jessica, live in San 
Francisco with their identical twin daughters Katie and Carter and their 
