Dave Racaniello (born June 3, 1978 in Stamford, Connecticut), is a bullpen 
catcher for the New York Mets of Major League Baseball. Born June 3, 1978 
in Stamford, Connecticut, Racaniello attended Westhill High School, later 
going on to attend Norwalk Community College and Central Connecticut State 
University.[1][2] Racaniello played baseball at Westhill High School, including 
time as a catcher. He later went on to play baseball for Norwalk Community 
College for two years, where he was teammate of future MLB pitcher Érik 
Bédard. In 1998, Racaniello's team at Norwalk won the NJCAA Division III 
Baseball World Series.[3] Afterwards, Racaniello transferred to Central 
Connecticut State University, where he also played baseball.[4] In the 
summer of 1997, Racaniello, then still a student at Norwalk, attended a 
Mets game with a friend. His friend's father was friends with the Mets' 
then-Manager, Bobby Valentine, giving Racaniello and his friend an opportunity 
to meet the New York skipper before the game. The Mets' regular bullpen 
catcher at the time was not able to come to the game due to a recent family 
emergency, so Valentine, who had heard Racaniello had caught, asked him 
if he was willing to fill in. Racaniello agreed, and suited up as a Met 
for the first time. Racaniello would then fill in as the Mets' bullpen 
catcher and help out in the bullpen for most of the remainder of the 1997 
season, until he returned to Norwalk. After his part-time success with 
the organization, when the position opened up for the 2001 season, the 
Mets asked Racaniello if he was interested in the job. Racaniello accepted 
and immediately dropped out of school to serve as the bullpen catcher for 
the Mets. Racaniello originally planned to possibly return to school, but 
his continued employment with the Mets prevented such a return. Since 2001, 
Racaniello has continuously served as bullpen catcher for the Mets, warming 
up pitchers as well as throwing batting practice and serving as a "dummy" 
in drills.[5] Racaniello prefers to remain somewhat silent in the Mets 
clubhouse, reading books and staying out of the way. He is close friends 
with third baseman David Wright, who first met him before the 2004 season.[5] 
Racaniello is physically active, having climbed Mount Kilimanjaro in January 
2012 and run the New York City Marathon twice.[1] In 2011, Racaniello consumed 
14 cheesesteaks to break Dmitri Young's record for most consumed in the 
Philadelphia Phillies visiting clubhouse.[6] In 2016 his engagement to 
his longtime girlfriend, a St. Louis native, was announced on the scoreboard 
