David Mark Winfield (born October 3, 1951) is an American former Major 
League Baseball (MLB) right fielder. He is currently special assistant 
to the executive director of the Major League Baseball Players Association.[1] 
Over his 22-year career, he played for six teams: the San Diego Padres, 
New York Yankees, California Angels, Toronto Blue Jays, Minnesota Twins, 
and Cleveland Indians. He had the winning hit in the 1992 World Series 
with the Blue Jays over the Atlanta Braves. Winfield is a 12-time MLB All-Star, 
a seven-time Gold Glove Award winner, and a six-time Silver Slugger Award 
winner. The Padres retired #31, Winfield's uniform number, in his honor. 
He also wore #31 while playing for the Yankees and Indians and wore #32 
with the Angels, Blue Jays and Twins. In 2004, ESPN named him the third-best 
all-around athlete of all time in any sport.[2] He is a member of both 
the Baseball Hall of Fame and the College Baseball Hall of Fame. Winfield 
was born the same day Bobby Thomson hit his pennant-winning home run for 
the New York Giants, known as "the shot heard 'round the world". He grew 
up in St. Paul, Minnesota. His parents divorced when he was three years 
old, leaving him and his older brother Stephen to be raised by their mother, 
Arline, and a large extended family of aunts, uncles, grandparents and 
cousins.[3] The Winfield brothers honed their athletic skills in St. Paul's 
Oxford playground, where coach Bill Peterson was one of the first to take 
the young Winfield under his wing. Winfield did not become a formidable 
6'6" athlete until his senior year of high school.[3] He earned a full 
baseball scholarship to the University of Minnesota in 1969, where he starred 
in baseball and basketball for the Golden Gophers. His college baseball 
coach was former MLB player Dick Siebert. His basketball coach was Bill 
Musselman, who was later a head coach in the American Basketball Association 
and National Basketball Association and who later referred to Winfield 
as the best rebounder he ever coached. Winfield's 1972 Minnesota team won 
a Big Ten basketball championship, the school's first in 53 years. During 
the 1972 season, he also was involved in a brawl when Minnesota played 
Ohio State.[4] Winfield also played for the Alaska Goldpanners for two 
seasons (1971–72) and was the MVP in 1972. In 1973, he was named All-American 
and voted MVP of the College World Series—as a pitcher. Following college, 
Winfield was drafted by four teams in three different sports. The San Diego 
Padres selected him as a pitcher with the fourth overall pick in the MLB 
draft and both the Atlanta Hawks (NBA) and the Utah Stars (ABA) drafted 
him.[5][6] Though he never played college football, the Minnesota Vikings 
selected Winfield in the 17th round of the NFL draft. He is one of four 
players ever to be drafted by three professional sports (the others being 
Noel Jenke, Mickey McCarty and Dave Logan), and one of two athletes along 
with McCarty to be drafted by four leagues.[7] Winfield chose baseball, 
and gained another distinction when the San Diego Padres signed in him 
the first round draft and promoted him directly to the major leagues. Although 
he was a pitcher, the Padres wanted his powerful bat in the lineup and 
put him in right field, where he could still use his "rifle arm." He proved 
up to the task, batting .277 in 56 games his first season. For the next 
several years, he was an All-Star player in San Diego, gradually increasing 
his power and hits totals. In 1977, he appeared in his first All-Star game 
at New York's Yankee Stadium and he burst into national stardom. In 1978, 
he was named Padres team captain and in 1979, he batted .308 with 34 home 
runs and 118 RBI. He played one more season with the Padres before becoming 
a free agent. In 1981, New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner made 
Winfield the game's highest-paid player by signing him to a ten-year, $23 
million contract. Steinbrenner mistakenly thought he was signing Winfield 
for $16 million,[8] a misunderstanding that led to an infamous public feud.[9] 
Winfield was among the highest rated players in the game throughout his 
Yankee contract. He was a key factor in leading the Yankees to the 1981 
American League pennant, but then had a sub-par World Series, which the 
Yankees lost to the Los Angeles Dodgers in six games. After getting his 
only series hit, Winfield jokingly asked for the ball.[10] Steinbrenner 
did not find this humorous, and criticized Winfield at the end of the series. 
Many commentators have since noted that Winfield's post-season doldrums 
were somewhat overstated when compared to those of his teammates. In the 
exciting 1981 American League Division Series, Winfield batted .350 with 
two doubles and a triple and made some important defensive plays helping 
the Yankees to victory over the Milwaukee Brewers. Four of his seven hits 
came in games won by the Yankees. The team's offense for the most part 
was inconsistent, and they were also set back by key injuries to Reggie 
Jackson and Graig Nettles. Winfield did not let Steinbrenner's antics affect 
his play. He hit 37 home runs in a spectacular 1982 season. On August 4, 
1983, Winfield killed a seagull by throwing a ball while warming up before 
the fifth inning of a game at Toronto's Exhibition Stadium.[11] Fans responded 
by hurling obscenities and improvised missiles. After the game, he was 
brought to the Ontario Provincial Police station and charged with cruelty 
to animals. He was released after posting a $500 bond. Yankee manager Billy 
Martin quipped, "It's the first time he's hit the cutoff man all season."[11] 
Charges were dropped the following day.[12] In the offseason, Winfield 
returned to Toronto and donated two paintings for an Easter Seals auction, 
which raised over $60,000.[3][13] For years afterward, Winfield's appearances 
in Toronto were greeted by fans standing and flapping their arms—until 
he became a fan favorite when he joined the Blue Jays in 1992. From 1981 
through 1984, Winfield was the most effective run producer in MLB.[14] 
In 1984, he and teammate Don Mattingly were in a memorable race for the 
batting title[15] in which Mattingly won out by .003 points on the last 
day of the season; Winfield finished with a .340 average. In the last few 
weeks of the race, it became obvious to most observers that the fans were 
partial to Mattingly.[16] Winfield took this in stride noting that a similar 
thing happened in 1961 when Mantle and Maris competed for the single season 
home run record.[17] In 1985, Steinbrenner derided Winfield by saying to 
New York Times writer Murray Chass, "Where is Reggie Jackson? We need a 
Mr. October or a Mr. September. Winfield is Mr. May.".[18] This criticism 
has become somewhat of an anachronism as many cite the statement to Steinbrenner 
after the 1981 World Series. Winfield was struggling while the Yankees 
eventually lost a pennant to Toronto on the second to last day of the season.[18] 
The Mr. May sobriquet lived with Winfield until he won the 1992 World Series 
with Toronto.[19] Throughout the late '80s, Steinbrenner regularly leaked 
derogatory and fictitious stories about Winfield to the press.[20] He also 
forced Yankee managers to move him down in the batting order and bench 
him. Steinbrenner frequently tried to trade him, but Winfield's status 
as a 10-and-5 player (10 years in the majors, five years with a single 
team) meant he could not be traded without his consent. Winfield continued 
to put up excellent numbers with the Yankees, driving in 744 runs between 
1982 and 1988, and was selected to play in the All-Star Game every season. 
Winfield won five (of his seven) Gold Glove Awards for his stellar outfield 
play as a Yankee. In 1989, Winfield missed the entire season due to a back 
injury.[21] In 1990, the feud between Steinbrenner and Winfield had escalated 
to the point where Steinbrenner was "banned for life" from running the 
Yankees because of his connections to Howie Spira, a known gambler with 
Mafia connections, whom he had paid $40,000 for embarrassing information 
on Winfield.[22] However, the suspension lasted only two years. Winfield 
was traded mid-season to the California Angels.[21] Winfield was traded 
for Mike Witt during the 1990 season and won the Sporting News Comeback 
Player of the Year Award.[23] He hit for the cycle in June 1991 against 
the Kansas City Royals, hitting 5 for 5 in the game.[24] He also recorded 
his 400th home run against the Twins in his hometown.[25] Winfield was 
still a productive hitter after his 40th birthday. On December 19, 1991, 
he signed with the Toronto Blue Jays as their designated hitter, and also 
made "Winfieldian" plays when he periodically took his familiar position 
in right field. He batted .290 with 26 home runs and 108 RBI during the 
1992 season. Winfield proved to be a lightning rod for the Blue Jays, providing 
leadership and experience as well as his potent bat. Winfield was a fan 
favorite and also demanded fan participation. In August 1992 he made an 
impassioned plea to the reserved fans during an interview for more crowd 
noise. The phrase "Winfield Wants Noise" became a popular slogan for the 
rest of the season, appearing on T-shirts, dolls, buttons, and signs. The 
Blue Jays won the pennant, giving Winfield a chance at redemption for his 
previous post-season futility. In Game 6 of the World Series, he became 
"Mr. Jay"[19] as he delivered the game-winning two-run double in the 11th 
inning off Atlanta's Charlie Leibrandt to win the World Series Championship 
for Toronto. At 41 years of age, Winfield became the third-oldest player 
to hit an extra base hit in the World Series, trailing only Pete Rose and 
Enos Slaughter.[26] After the 1992 season, Winfield was granted free agency 
and signed with his hometown Minnesota Twins, where he continued to perform 
at a high level of play despite advancing age. He batted .271 with 21 home 
runs, appearing in 143 games for the 1993 Twins, mostly as their designated 
hitter. On September 16, 1993, at age 41, he collected his 3,000th career 
hit with a single off Oakland Athletics closer Dennis Eckersley.[27] During 
the 1994 baseball strike, which began on August 12, Winfield was traded 
to the Cleveland Indians at the trade waiver deadline on August 31 for 
a player to be named later. The 1994 season had been halted two weeks earlier 
(it was eventually canceled a month later on September 14), so Winfield 
did not get to play for the Indians that year and no player was ever named 
in exchange. To settle the trade, Cleveland and Minnesota executives went 
to dinner, with the Indians picking up the tab. This makes Winfield the 
only player in major league history to be "traded" for a dinner (though 
official sources list the transaction as Winfield having been sold by the 
Minnesota Twins to the Cleveland Indians).[28] Winfield, who was now the 
oldest MLB player, was again granted free agency in October but re-signed 
with the Indians as spring training began in April 1995. A rotator cuff 
injury kept him on the disabled list for most of the season; thus he played 
in only 46 games and hit .191 for Cleveland's first pennant winner in 41 
years. He did not participate in the Indians' postseason. Winfield retired 
in 1996 and was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 2001, in his first 
year of eligibility. He was the first San Diego Padre player inducted into 
Cooperstown[29]—a move that reportedly irked Yankees' owner George Steinbrenner. 
Nonetheless, when he was inducted Winfield sounded a conciliatory note 
toward Steinbrenner:[30][31] In 1998, Winfield was inducted by the San 
Diego Hall of Champions into the Breitbard Hall of Fame[32] honoring San 
Diego's finest athletes both on and off the playing surface.[33] In 1999, 
Winfield ranked number 94 on The Sporting News list of Baseball's Greatest 
Players,[34] and was a nominee for the Major League Baseball All-Century 
Team. He was inducted into the San Diego Padres Hall of Fame in 2000.[35] 
The Padres retired Winfield's No. 31 on April 14, 2001.[36] On July 4, 
2006, Winfield was inducted into the College Baseball Hall of Fame in its 
inaugural class. In 2010, Winfield was voted All-Time Left Fielder in the 
National Sports Review poll[37] and selected as one of 28 members of the 
NCAA Men's College World Series Legends Team.[38] The Big Ten Network named 
Winfield its #15 ranked Big Ten Conference "Icon" in 2010.[39] The 2016 
Major League Baseball All-Star Game, played at Petco Park in San Diego, 
is expected to be dedicated to Winfield. He had represented the Padres 
at the first All-Star Game to be played in San Diego. In 1996, Winfield 
joined the new Major League Baseball on Fox program as studio analyst for 
their Saturday MLB coverage. From 2001 to 2013, Winfield served as executive 
vice president/senior advisor of the San Diego Padres. In 2006, Winfield 
teamed up with conductor Bob Thompson to create The Baseball Music Project, 
a series of concerts that celebrate the history of baseball, with Winfield 
serving as host and narrator.[40] In 2008, Winfield participated in both 
the final Old Timer's Day ceremony and Final game ceremony at Yankee Stadium.[41] 
On June 5, 2008, Major League Baseball held a special draft of the surviving 
Negro League players to acknowledge and rectify their exclusion from the 
major leagues on the basis of race. The idea of the special draft was conceived 
by Winfield. Each major league team drafted one player from the Negro Leagues.[42] 
On March 31, 2009, Winfield joined ESPN as an analyst on their Baseball 
Tonight program.[43] On December 5, 2013, Winfield was named special assistant 
to Executive Director Tony Clark at the Major League Baseball Players Association.[44] 
On July 14, 2014, Winfield returned to Minnesota to throw out the first 
pitch at the 2014 Home Run Derby along with fellow St. Paul natives Joe 
Mauer, Paul Molitor, and Jack Morris.[45] In March 2016, Winfield helped 
represent Major League Baseball in Cuba during President Obama's trip to 
the island in an attempt to help normalize relations. On March 21 he gave 
a press conference with Joe Torre, Derek Jeter, and Luis Tiant in Havana 
and attended the baseball game between the Tampa Bay Rays and the Cuba 
National Team the next day. Winfield resides in California with his wife 
Tonya, and three children, Shanel and twins David II and Arielle. Well 
known for his philanthropic work, Winfield began giving back to the communities 
in which he played from the beginning of his professional athletic career. 
In 1973, his first year with the Padres, he began buying blocks of tickets 
to Padres games for families who couldn't afford to go to games, in a program 
known as "pavilions." Winfield then added health clinics to the equation, 
by partnering with San Diego's Scripps Clinic who had a mobile clinic which 
was brought into the stadium parking lot.[46] When Winfield joined the 
Toronto Blue Jays, he learned teammate David Wells was one of the "Winfield 
kids" who attended Padres games.[47] In his hometown of St. Paul, he began 
a scholarship program (which continues to this day). In 1977, he organized 
his efforts into an official 501(c)(3) charitable organization, known as 
the David M. Winfield Foundation for Underprivileged Youth, the first active 
athlete to do so.[46] As his salary increased, Foundation programs expanded 
to include holiday dinner giveaways and national scholarships. In 1978, 
San Diego hosted the All-Star game, and Winfield bought his usual block 
of pavilion tickets. Winfield then went on a local radio station and inadvertently 
invited "all the kids of San Diego" to attend. To accommodate the unexpected 
crowd, the Foundation brought the kids into batting practice. The All-Star 
open-practice has since been adopted by Major League Baseball and continues 
to this day.[3] When Winfield joined the New York Yankees, he set aside 
$3 million of his contract for the Winfield Foundation. He funded The Dave 
Winfield Nutrition Center at Hackensack University Medical Center near 
his Teaneck, New Jersey home. The Foundation also partnered with Merck 
Pharmaceuticals and created an internationally acclaimed bilingual substance 
abuse prevention program called "Turn it Around".[47] The Winfield Foundation 
also became a bone of contention in Steinbrenner's public feud with Winfield. 
Steinbrenner alleged that the foundation was mishandling funds and often 
held back payments to the organization, which resulted in long, costly 
court battles. It also created the appearance that Steinbrenner was contributing 
to the foundation, when in actuality, Steinbrenner was holding back a portion 
of Winfield's salary. Ultimately, the foundation received all of its funding 
and the alleged improprieties proved unfounded. Winfield's philanthropic 
endeavors had as much influence on many of MLB's players as his on-field 
play. Yankee Derek Jeter, who grew up idolizing Winfield for both his athleticism 
and humanitarianism, credits Winfield as the inspiration for his own Turn 
2 Foundation.[48] In turn, Winfield continues to help raise funds and awareness 
for Jeter's Foundation and for many other groups and causes throughout 
