David J. Berry was a major football manager during the late 19th and early 
20th centuries. He was the top promoter for the sport during that time 
period. He is credited with inventing the "all-star game concept" in 1898, 
and also helped to form one of the first organized football leagues in 
1902.[1] He was the manager of the Latrobe Athletic Association the first 
ever fully professional football team to play an entire season. He was 
also signed John Brallier to the Latrobe football team in 1895, for $10 
a game plus expenses, making him the first-ever openly professional football 
player. Outside of pro football, Berry was the editor of the Latrobe Clipper 
newspaper.[2] Berry was also the inventor of the all-star game. In 1898, 
Berry organized a team of local stars to play the Duquesne Country and 
Athletic Club, the Pennsylvania "football champions" that season. He came 
up with the idea of opposing them with an all-star team culled from Latrobe, 
Greensburg Athletic Association, Washington & Jefferson College, the Pittsburgh 
Athletic Club, and Pittsburgh College of the Holy Ghost. Berry was able 
to form the 1898 Western Pennsylvania All-Star football team, however Greensburg 
and Washington & Jefferson refused to commit players, or allow them to 
play. Many of his players came directly from Latrobe. Still Berry's All-Star 
Game ended in a 16-0 Duquesne win. The game also resulted in a poor showing 
of attendance, with only 1,500 fans in attendance at Pittsburgh's Exposition 
Park. Part of the blame was due to many Pittsburghers considering the football 
season over with the Thanksgiving games. Uncertain weather was also blamed 
for the poor attendance. However most of the fans blame went to the leaders 
of the Greensburg Athletic Association, who were accused of spreading rumors 
that the various star players would not appear in the game.[1] Hours before 
the start of his all-star game, Berry was "arrested" by one of his Latrobe 
players for a debt he claimed Berry owed him. Berry paid the $33 owed and 
then had the player arrested on false arrest charges.[3] Berry also helped 
form the first National Football League in 1902, with Ben Shibe and John 
Rogers. Shibe and Rodgers, owners of the Philadelphia Phillies and Philadelphia 
Athletics respectively, decided to field football teams to compete with 
each other during the baseball wars, that pitted the National League against 
the upstart American League. However both men needed to have a Pittsburgh-based 
team in their football league to add legitimacy to their league. So they 
contacted Berry who put together an all-star team of top players that were 
named the "Pittsburgh Stars". The Stars were owned by Berry on paper; however 
Barney Dreyfuss and William Chase Temple, owners of the Pittsburgh Pirates 
were rumoured to be funding the team. Meanwhile Shibe and Rogers named 
their teams after their baseball counterparts.[1][4] Berry was also named 
the league's president.[5] In the league's only season, Berry's Pittsburgh 
Stars defeated the Philadelphia Athletics, 11-0 at the Pittsburgh Coliseum 
to win the league championship. The A's players decided to call the Stars 
game an exhibition, and declared themselves the champs. However the team 
had agreed to that season-ending championship game against Pittsburgh the 
Saturday after Thanksgiving Day, and they had lost it. This was recognized 
by all parties at the time as the championship game. Each team carried 
a record of 2–2 for league play. Pittsburgh had by far the better point 
ratio, scoring 39 points to their opponents' 22. Both the Athletics and 
the Phillies gave up more points than they scored in their league games. 
Finally Berry used his power as league president and name his Stars the 
1902 champions.[4] Berry learned the newspaper business as a reporter for 
the daily Greensburg Press, covering the city of Jeannette in the local 
news. He later conducted the Latrobe Clipper and founded two papers in 
Greensburg, the Morning Star and Morning Review.[6] The latter was an ancestor 
