David Edward Hamilton (born December 13, 1947) is a former Major League 
Baseball pitcher who won three World Series championships as a member of 
the Oakland Athletics in the early 1970s. Hamilton was drafted out of Edmonds 
High School in Edmonds, Washington by the Kansas City Athletics in the 
fifth round of the 1966 Major League Baseball draft. He spent six seasons 
in their farm system before receiving a call up to the Oakland Athletics 
in May of 1972.[1] He won his major league debut on May 29, starting the 
second game of a doubleheader with the Texas Rangers.[2] He ended the season 
at 6–6 with a 2.93 earned run average as the A's headed to the 1972 American 
League Championship Series against the Detroit Tigers. Hamilton made only 
one appearance in the ALCS, blowing a save opportunity in game four.[3] 
He appeared twice in the World Series against the Cincinnati Reds. He faced 
just one batter, Joe Morgan in game five, and got a double play on a fly 
ball to Matty Alou in right field in which Pete Rose tried to score from 
third.[4] In game six, the "Big Red Machine" tagged Hamilton for four runs 
in just two-thirds of an inning.[5] The A's returned to the World Series 
again in 1973 and 1974, but Hamilton never made a post-season appearance 
either year. On June 15, 1975, he and Chet Lemon were traded to the Chicago 
White Sox for Stan Bahnsen and Skip Pitlock.[6] Though Hamilton had been 
used as both a starter and reliever in Oakland, he was used strictly out 
of the bullpen by White Sox manager, Chuck Tanner. He earned his first 
major league save on June 25,[7] and went on to earn 25 in three seasons 
with the club. On November 28, 1977, he and Silvio Martinez were sent to 
the St. Louis Cardinals to complete an August 31 deal in which the Chisox 
sent two players to be named later to the Cards for Clay Carroll. Hamilton 
got off to a poor start with the Cardinals, and soon found himself doing 
mop-up duty for manager Vern Rapp. When Ken Boyer replaced Rapp at the 
helm, Hamilton was given the opportunity to redeem himself, but after blowing 
a save against the San Diego Padres on back-to-back home runs by Gene Tenace 
and Rick Sweet,[8] found himself again in the mop-up role. He appeared 
in thirteen games for the Cardinals, all of which were losses, and was 
0–0 with a 6.43 ERA when his contract was sold to the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
After losing his first game as a Pirate,[9] Hamilton earned his first save 
of the season against the New York Mets shortly afterwards.[10] He began 
seeing more time in pressure situations, but after failing to perform, 
found himself again in the now familiar mop-up role. Following the season, 
he returned to Oakland as a free agent. The A's were far from a World Series 
team when Hamilton returned in 1979. Considering the club lost 108 games 
his first season back, Hamilton's mark of 3–4 with five saves and a 3.70 
ERA is respectable. He split 1980 between Oakland and the Ogden A's, going 
0–3 with an 11.40 ERA at the major league level. After four games with 
the Pacific Coast League's Tacoma Tigers in 1981, he retired. Hamilton 
was 4-for-25 in 1972 with five walks and two runs scored. In fourteen at-bats 
over the rest of his career, he never reached base again. He currently 
lives in California with his wife, Lynn, and has three grown children Jonathan, 
Brian and Christy as well as a grandson, Matthew. He began coaching baseball 
for California High School in San Ramon in 1996.[11] He is also a project 
