David P. Samson is the President of the Miami Marlins, a Major League Baseball 
team located in Miami, Florida. He has held the position since 2002. He 
previously held the title of Executive Vice President with the Montreal 
Expos from 1999 to 2002, working in both cities under team owner and former 
stepfather Jeffrey Loria. Samson was also a contestant on the reality TV 
program Survivor: Cagayan in 2014, where he was the first person voted 
out. As President of the Marlins, he played a key role in the negotiations 
to secure a public/private partnership to build a retractable roof ballpark, 
which opened on April 4, 2012. The ballpark assures the Club's long-term 
future in South Florida. Along with Loria, he was also one of the driving 
forces behind the subsequent rebranding of the franchise following the 
2011 season. The rebranding, which was revealed to the public on November 
11, 2011, included the changing of the Club's name from the Florida Marlins 
to Miami Marlins, as well as changes to the team's logo and uniforms. The 
public perception of Samson has been shaped by more than just his success 
in securing a new ballpark, however. Several controversies have surrounded 
his tenure in baseball, both in Montreal and South Florida. The controversies 
have swirled around major lawsuits in response to his business dealings 
on behalf of the Expos and Marlins, as well as his outspoken and unfiltered 
nature, especially in dealings with the media. Samson was born to Allen 
and Sivia Samson in Milwaukee, Wisconsin on February 26, 1968. He was the 
couple's second child, following older sister Nancy. Allen and Sivia divorced 
not long after Samson's birth, and his mother moved with her two children 
to New York City in 1976. Samson also has half siblings, sisters Rachel 
and Samantha and a brother, Daniel, from his parents’ subsequent marriages. 
Upon moving to New York City, Samson was enrolled at the Horace Mann School 
in the Bronx, where he completed grades 1-12. Following high school, he 
attended Tufts University in Somerville, Massachusetts for one year before 
transferring to the University of Wisconsin for his sophomore year. He 
graduated from Wisconsin in 1990 with a B.A. in Economics and a minor in 
Philosophy. Samson attended the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law at Yeshiva 
University beginning in 1990, receiving his juris doctorate in 1993. Samson 
and his wife, Cindi, were married in 1990 and have three children: Hannah, 
Kyra, and Caleb. Following his graduation from law school, Samson founded 
News Travels Fast in 1993, the first company to deliver The New York Times, 
and later Barron's and The Wall Street Journal, to Europe on a same-day 
basis. The rise of internet sites that provided news delivery would eventually 
bring an end to the endeavor in 1996. In early 1997, Samson joined Morgan 
Stanley as an investment advisor, a position he held until joining the 
Montreal Expos’ front office in December 1999. Samson was named executive 
vice president of the Montreal Expos in December 1999, shortly after his 
then-stepfather, Jeffrey Loria, purchased the ownership stake of Claude 
Brochu and became chairman, CEO and managing general partner on December 
9. The tenure of Loria and Samson in Montreal would be brief, however. 
Samson played a key role in negotiating the sale of the Expos and the subsequent 
purchase of the Florida Marlins in 2002. In a complex franchise swap that 
reshaped the landscape of baseball in three American and National League 
East Division cities, Loria sold the Expos to a Delaware partnership, Expos 
Baseball, LP. The partnership had been formed by a vote of the Major League 
Baseball owners so that Loria would be free to purchase the Marlins from 
John W. Henry, who needed to sell the South Florida Club in order to complete 
his purchase of the Boston Red Sox. The Expos would later be moved to Washington, 
D.C., by Major League Baseball. An early controversy of Samson's baseball 
career came in July 2002, when he was one of several defendants named in 
a federal complaint filed in Miami under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt 
Organizations Act (RICO). The complaint was filed by 14 former minority 
partners of the Expos against Loria, MLB Commissioner Bud Selig, MLB Chief 
Operating Officer Bob DuPuy, the commissioner's office and Samson.[1] The 
suit alleged that Selig, Loria, and Samson conspired for more than two 
years to eliminate the Montreal franchise and move it to the United States, 
and that Selig had conducted mail fraud and wire fraud in the process. 
The complaint further accused Loria and Samson of conspiring with baseball 
officials to dilute the minority partners’ share of the team from 76 percent 
to 6-to-7 percent and of never intending to keep the franchise in Montreal. 
In response to the allegations, Loria and Samson argued that the partners’ 
share was decreased because the partners refused to put up additional money 
that was requested by Loria in cash calls that were permitted by the partnership 
agreement. Loria also accused the former minority partners of hypocrisy, 
claiming they had been unwilling to fund any operating losses since 1991 
and had directed fire sales of players during the 1990s. The case against 
Loria, Samson and MLB essentially ended on November 15, 2004, when a three-judge 
arbitration panel in New York ruled unanimously that there was no fraud 
or breach of fiduciary duties committed by Loria and Samson.[2] As a result 
of the binding ruling, the limited partners dropped their bid for an injunction 
against the relocation of the Expos and eventually declined to pursue the 
federal RICO suit. After Samson led negotiations for Loria's $158.5 million 
purchase of the Marlins on February 16, 2002, which was approved by MLB 
owners on February 12, the Club moved nearly 50 employees from the Expos 
organization to the Marlins. After a 79-83 season in 2002 in which the 
Club finished fourth in the NL East, the Marlins made several key additions 
to the squad in 2003, highlighted by the signing of Ivan "Pudge" Rodriguez 
and the re-acquisition of Jeff Conine, and surprised the baseball world 
by winning the second World Series in Club history. During the regular 
season, the team improved its record by 12 games, finishing at 91-71 to 
earn the National League Wild Card berth. The team was fueled in 2003 by 
Jack McKeon, who became manager on May 11 and led the team to a 75-49 record 
for the rest of the regular season, the second-best mark in the Majors 
over that span. In addition, outfielder Juan Pierre, catcher Iván Rodríguez 
and reliever Ugueth Urbina, and rookie call-ups Miguel Cabrera, an outfielder 
at the time, and Dontrelle Willis, a starting pitcher, all helped the Marlins 
in their record run. The 2003 postseason run began with a thrilling win 
over the Giants in the Divisional round. The series ended in game four 
on collision at home plate between San Francisco's J. T. Snow and Rodriguez, 
who made the tag and held onto the ball for the final out of a 7-6 win. 
The Marlins went on to overcome a 3-2 deficit in the National League Championship 
Series against the Chicago Cubs, coming back from a 3-0 deficit in game 
six and a 5-3 deficit in game seven, both on the road, to reach the World 
Series. Florida then stunned the New York Yankees in the World Series in 
six games, clinching the championship at Yankee Stadium on a complete-game 
shutout by starting pitcher Josh Beckett. The Marlins won the World Series 
as the NL Wild Card entrant for the second time, having been the first 
Wild Card team ever to win a title in 1997, and Samson is one of just eight 
current team presidents to preside over a World Series champion. The biggest 
challenge facing the long-term stability of the Marlins in 2002 was the 
Club's inability to secure a baseball-only ballpark, with shelter from 
the extreme summer temperatures and precipitation patterns of the South 
Florida region. The first two owners of the Franchise, Wayne Huizenga and 
John W. Henry, respectively, had failed in their efforts to secure funding 
for such a facility. Samson led a negotiating team that worked for more 
than six years to finalize a public/private partnership to build a new 
retractable roof, air-conditioned ballpark in Miami. Prior to final approval 
in March 2009, there had been many failed attempts to complete a deal. 
A new ballpark, originally slated to open in 2005, never came to fruition, 
due to lack of State funding. Several unsuccessful attempts to secure State 
funding from Tallahassee delayed the deal even further, as well as changes 
in potential sites. When the University of Miami Hurricanes left the old 
Orange Bowl to play its games elsewhere, the original Orange Bowl was demolished 
by the City of Miami, thereby creating a perfect site for the new ballpark. 
In March 2009, final approval of the public/private partnership was completed 
between the Miami-Dade County, the City of Miami and the Marlins. Absent 
from the final deal was any participation by the State of Florida. As part 
of the deal, Jeffrey Loria agreed to pay approximately $161.2M of the estimated 
$515M price tag. The new stadium funding was included in a $3 billion redevelopment 
plan by Miami-Dade County that also partly funded a tunnel into the Port 
of Miami, provided a major infusion of money for the Adrienne Arsht Center 
for the Performing Arts and funded urban redevelopment plans in Overtown 
and the Omni downtown district. South Florida businessman Norman Braman 
filed a lawsuit in January 2008 alleging that the deal between the Marlins 
and the county to fund the new stadium was an illegal use of taxpayer money 
that was intended to combat urban blight, and should have been subject 
to a public vote.[3] All seven counts of the lawsuit were eventually dismissed, 
the last on November 21, 2008 by Miami-Dade Circuit Judge Jeri Beth Cohen. 
Due to the nearly year-long delay caused by the Braman lawsuit,[4] the 
original timeline for the construction of the stadium was delayed and the 
opening date was pushed back from the 2011 season to the 2012 season. The 
official groundbreaking ceremony was held on July 18, 2009, in front of 
5,000 fans.[5] The ballpark, and the newly rechristened Miami Marlins, 
hosted their first regular season game on April 4, 2012, against the St. 
Louis Cardinals. Samson is an active member of philanthropic and business 
communities in South Florida. He has garnered several awards as a result 
of that work, and sits on several boards of directors in both South Florida 
