David Pietrusza (born November 22, 1949 in Amsterdam, New York) is a noted 
historian and author. David Pietrusza has produced a number of critically 
acclaimed works concerning 20th century American history, including four 
works ("1920," "1960," "1948'" and "1932") on presidential electoral history. 
He is also an expert on the 1920s and on the presidency of Calvin Coolidge 
and the career of Charles Evans Hughes. As a noted presidential scholar, 
Pietrusza has been selected to serve on the Siena College Research Institute 
(SRI) Survey of United States Presidents and on the C-SPAN/Siena College 
Study of The First Ladies of The United States. Pietrusza collaborated 
with baseball legend Ted Williams on an autobiography called Ted Williams: 
My Life in Pictures. This book contained pictures of Williams throughout 
his life (many from his personal collection) and commentary on what each 
one depicted. Williams died shortly after the book was published. From 
1993 to 1997, Pietrusza served as president of the Society for American 
Baseball Research (SABR), and was later the editor-in-chief of the publishing 
company Total Sports. He is an Elector of the National Polish-American 
Sports Hall of Fame. Pietrusza holds both bachelor's and master's degrees 
in history from the University at Albany. He has served on the City Council 
in Amsterdam, New York and as Public Information Officer for the New York 
State Governor's Office of Regulatory Reform and the New York State Office 
of the Medicaid Inspector General. Pietrusza has served as a regular panelist 
of FoxNews.com Live, appearing with such hosts as Kimberly Guilfoyle, Jonathan 
Hunt, Harris Faulkner, Julie Banderas, Jamie Colby, and Patti Ann Browne. 
He has been a frequent guest on C-SPAN and on ESPN documentary series such 
as SportsCentury, You Can't Blame, and Who's Number 1?. Pietrusza been 
interviewed on NPR, MSNBC's "Morning Joe," SIRIUS-XM, The History Channel 
("The Ultimate Guide to the Presidents"), the Voice of America, Newsmax 
TV, Bloomberg Radio, the Fox News Channel, the John Batchelor Show, the 
Hugh Hewitt Show, AMC (The Making of the Mob: New York), GBTV, ESPN, the 
Fox Sports Channel, and the MLB Network. He wrote and produced the PBS-affiliate 
documentary, "Local Heroes." Pietrusza has appeared on numerous podcasts, 
including the "Matt Lewis Show Podcast," "Coffee & Markets," Roifield Brown's 
London-based "10 American Presidents" (the Franklin Roosevelt episode) 
and "10 American Elections" series (the 1964 and 1948 episodes), Salena 
Zito's presidential series discussing Calvin Coolidge, Harry S Truman, 
and Lyndon B. Johnson. and on Erik Rivenes' "More Notorious: A True Crime 
History Podcast" discussing Arnold Rothstein. Pietrusza's 1932: The Rise 
of Hitler and FDR: Two Tales of Politics, Betrayal, and Unlikely Destiny 
was nominated for the Kirkus Book Award and the American Library Association 
(ALA)'s "Notable Books List" and received a Kirkus starred review. His 
book 1960: LBJ vs JFK vs Nixon: The Epic Campaign that Forged Three Presidencies 
was named by ForeWord Magazine as among the best political biographies 
and received a Library Journal starred review. Pietrusza's 1920: The Year 
of the Six Presidents received a Kirkus starred review, was honored as 
a Kirkus "Best Books of 2007" title, and was named an alternate selection 
of the History Book Club. Historian Richard Norton Smith has listed it 
as being among the best studies of presidential campaigns. The Wall Street 
Journal ("broad, fluid brush strokes . . . a brisk narrative") rated 1920 
as among the Five Best Books on Political Campaigns. Cheatsheet.com ranks 
1920 as among the top five "Best Books about Elections." Pietrusza's biography 
of Arnold Rothstein entitled Rothstein: The Life, Times & Murder of the 
Criminal Genius Who Fixed the 1919 World Series was a finalist for the 
2003 Edgar Award. Rothstein's audio version won an AUDIOFILE Earphones 
Award. Pietrusza's Judge and Jury, his biography of baseball's first commissioner, 
Kenesaw Mountain Landis, received the 1998 CASEY Award and was also a Finalist 
for the 1998 Seymour Medal and nominated for the NASSH Book Award. His 
Lights On!: The Wild Century-Long Saga of Night Baseball was a 1997 CASEY 
Award finalist. Pietrusza is the Recipient of the 2011 Excellence in Arts 
& Letters Award of the Alumni Association of the University at Albany and 
a member of the initial induction class (2015) of the Greater Amsterdam 
