David Halberstam (April 10, 1934 – April 23, 2007) was an American journalist 
and historian, known for his work on the Vietnam War, politics, history, 
the Civil Rights Movement, business, media, American culture, and later, 
sports journalism.[1] He won a Pulitzer Prize for International Reporting 
in 1964. In 2007, while doing research for a book, Halberstam was killed 
in a car crash.[2][3] Halberstam was born in New York City and raised in 
Winsted, Connecticut, where he was a classmate of Ralph Nader, moving to 
Yonkers, New York and graduating from Roosevelt High School in 1951.[4] 
In 1955 he graduated from Harvard College in the bottom third of his class[5] 
with a BA after serving as managing editor of The Harvard Crimson. Halberstam's 
journalism career began at the Daily Times Leader in West Point, MS, the 
smallest daily newspaper in Mississippi. He covered the beginnings of the 
Civil Rights Movement for The Tennessean in Nashville.[citation needed] 
Halberstam arrived in Vietnam in the middle of 1962, to be a full-time 
Vietnam reporter for The New York Times.[6] Halberstam, like many other 
US journalists covering Vietnam, relied heavily for information on Phạm 
Xuân Ẩn, who was later revealed to be a secret North Vietnamese agent.[7] 
In 1963, Halberstam received a George Polk Award for his reporting at The 
New York Times, including his eyewitness account of the self-immolation 
of Vietnamese Buddhist monk Thích Quảng Đức.[8] During the Buddhist crisis, 
he and Neil Sheehan debunked the claim by the Diệm regime that the Army 
of the Republic of Vietnam regular forces had perpetrated the brutal raids 
on Buddhist temples, which the American authorities had initially believed, 
but that the Special Forces, loyal to Diệm's brother and strategist Nhu, 
had done so to frame the army generals. He was also involved in a scuffle 
with Nhu's secret police after they punched fellow journalist Peter Arnett 
while the pressmen were covering a Buddhist protest.[citation needed] Halberstam 
left Vietnam in 1964, at age 30, and was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for 
International Reporting that year.[2] He is interviewed in the 1968 documentary 
film on the Vietnam War entitled In the Year of the Pig.[citation needed] 
In the mid-1960s, Halberstam covered the Civil Rights Movement for The 
New York Times. He was sent on assignment to Poland, where he soon became 
'an attraction from behind the Iron Curtain' to the artistic boheme in 
Warsaw. The result of that fascination was a 12-year marriage to one of 
the most popular young actresses of that time, Elżbieta Czyżewska, on June 
13, 1965. Initially well received by the communist regime, two years later 
he was expelled from the country as persona non grata for publishing an 
article in The New York Times, criticizing the Polish government. Czyżewska 
followed him, becoming an outcast herself; that decision disrupted her 
career in the country where she was a big star, adored by millions. In 
the spring of 1967, Halberstam travelled with Martin Luther King Jr. from 
New York City to Cleveland and then to Berkeley, California for a Harper's 
article, "The Second Coming of Martin Luther King". While at the Times, 
he gathered material for his book The Making of a Quagmire: America and 
Vietnam during the Kennedy Era. Halberstam next wrote about President John 
F. Kennedy's foreign policy decisions on the Vietnam War in The Best and 
the Brightest. In 1972, Halberstam went to work on his next book, The Powers 
That Be, published in 1979 and featuring profiles of media titans like 
William S. Paley of CBS, Henry Luce of Time magazine, and Phil Graham of 
The Washington Post. In 1980 his brother, cardiologist Michael J. Halberstam, 
was murdered during a burglary.[9] His only public comment related to his 
brother's murder came when he and Michael's widow castigated Life magazine, 
then published monthly, for paying Michael's killer $9,000 to pose in jail 
for color photographs that appeared on inside pages of the February 1981 
edition of Life.[10] In 1991, Halberstam wrote The Next Century, in which 
he argued that, after the end of the Cold War, the United States was likely 
to fall behind economically to other countries such as Japan and Germany.[11] 
Later in his career, Halberstam turned to sports, publishing The Breaks 
of the Game, an inside look at Bill Walton and the 1979-80 Portland Trail 
Blazers basketball team; Playing for Keeps, an ambitious book on Michael 
Jordan in 1999; Summer of '49, on the baseball pennant race battle between 
the New York Yankees and Boston Red Sox; and The Education of a Coach, 
about New England Patriots head coach Bill Belichick. Much of his sports 
writing, particularly his baseball books, focuses on the personalities 
of the players and the times they lived in as much as on the games themselves. 
In particular, Halberstam depicted the 1949 Yankees and Boston Red Sox 
as symbols of a nobler era, when blue-collar athletes modestly strove to 
succeed and enter the middle class, rather than making millions and defying 
their owners and talking back to the press. In 1997, Halberstam received 
the Elijah Parish Lovejoy Award as well as an honorary Doctor of Laws degree 
from Colby College. After publishing four books in the 1960s, including 
the novel The Noblest Roman, The Making of a Quagmire, and The Unfinished 
Odyssey of Robert Kennedy, he wrote three books in the 1970s, four books 
in the 1980s, and six books in the 1990s, including his 1999 The Children 
which chronicled the 1959–1962 Nashville Student Movement. He wrote four 
more books in the 2000s and was working on at least two others at the time 
of his death. In the wake of 9/11, Halberstam wrote a book about the events 
in New York City, Firehouse, which describes the life of the men from Engine 
40, Ladder 35 of the New York City Fire Department. The Coldest Winter: 
America and the Korean War, the last book Halberstam completed, was published 
posthumously in September 2007. Halberstam died on April 23, 2007 at 10:30 a.m. 
in a traffic accident in Menlo Park, California near the Dumbarton Bridge, 
one week and six days after his 73rd birthday.[12] After Halberstam's death, 
the book project was taken over by Frank Gifford, who played for the losing 
New York Giants in the 1958 game, and was titled The Glory Game, published 
by HarperCollins in October 2008 with an introduction dedicated to David 
Halberstam.[13] Halberstam was generous with his time and advice to other 
authors. To cite just one instance, author Howard Bryant in the Acknowledgments 
section of Juicing the Game, his 2005 book about steroids in baseball, 
said of Halberstam's assistance: "He provided me with a succinct road map 
and the proper mind-set." Bryant went on to quote Halberstam on how to 
tackle a controversial non-fiction subject: "Think about three or four 
moments that you believe to be the most important during your time frame. 
Then think about what the leadership did about it. It doesn't have to be 
complicated. What happened, and what did the leaders do about it? That's 
your book."[citation needed] Pulitzer Prize-winning Korean War correspondent 
Marguerite Higgins was the staunchest pro-Diệm journalist in the Saigon 
press corps, frequently clashing with her younger male colleagues such 
as Neil Sheehan, Peter Arnett, and Halberstam. She claimed they had ulterior 
motives, saying "reporters here would like to see us lose the war to prove 
they're right."[14] Conservative military and diplomatic historian Mark 
Moyar[15] claimed that Halberstam, along with fellow Vietnam journalists 
Neil Sheehan and Stanley Karnow helped to bring about the 1963 South Vietnamese 
coup against President Diệm by sending negative information on Diệm to 
the U.S. government in news articles and in private, all because they decided 
Diệm was unhelpful in the war effort. Moyar claims that much of this information 
was false or misleading.[16] Sheehan, Karnow, and Halberstam all won Pulitzer 
Prizes for their work on the war.[citation needed] Newspaper opinion editor 
Michael Young says Halberstam saw Vietnam as a moralistic tragedy, with 
America's pride deterministically bringing about its downfall. Young writes 
that Halberstam reduced everything to human will, turning his subjects 
into agents of broader historical forces and coming off like a Hollywood 
