David S. Neft (born January 9, 1937) is an American writer and historian 
who creates sports encyclopedias. Neft was born in New York City, received 
a BA, MBA, and PhD (Statistics) from Columbia University, and worked as 
chief statistician for the polling company Louis Harris & Associates from 
1963 to 1965.[1] In 1965, he was a founder of a company called Information 
Concepts, Inc. (ICI) and headed the first effort to compile a computerized 
database of baseball statistics. The task took more than three years, as 
Neft and a team of researchers travelled across the country to fill the 
gaping holes in baseball's statistical and biographical records. The resulting 
work was published in 1969 by the Macmillan Publishing Company. Although 
the official title was "The Baseball Encyclopedia", the massive book was 
generally referred to as "Big Mac". It was a quantum leap from early baseball 
encyclopedias, with a breadth and depth that far exceeded anything that 
had come before it. Neft left ICI in 1970, spending the next few years 
developing dice-based sports games for Sports Illustrated Enterprises. 
He returned to the sports reference field when he founded Sports Products, 
Inc. with partner Richard M. Cohen. The company produced a new baseball 
encyclopedia in 1974 called "The Sports Encyclopedia: Baseball". That same 
year, they published groundbreaking new encyclopedias for football (The 
Sports Encyclopedia: Pro Football) and basketball (The Sports Encyclopedia: 
Pro Basketball). The baseball encyclopedia has been updated each spring, 
with the 27th edition appearing in 2007. Seventeen editions of the football 
encyclopedia were published (the last in 1998). The basketball encyclopedia 
was published until 1992, a total of five editions. Beside this line of 
encyclopedias, Neft edited more than a dozen other sports books. In 1978, 
Neft & Cohen published Pro Football: The Early Years, a startling new look 
at professional football before 1933. Because the National Football League 
hadn't kept official statistics in its first thirteen seasons, knowledge 
of the period was extremely limited. Neft led a team of researchers that 
meticulously reconstructed the statistical record using box scores, play-by-play 
accounts, and game stories from local newspapers. The result was a remarkable 
new look at the teams and players from the NFL's earliest seasons. Neft 
returned to Harris, then owned by Gannett, in 1977, serving as executive 
vice president. In 1985, he became Gannett's director of research, a position 
he held until his retirement in 2002. He is widely recognized within the 
