David Robert Shepherd MBE (27 December 1940 – 27 October 2009)[1] was a 
first-class cricketer who played county cricket for Gloucestershire, and 
later became one of the cricket world's best-known umpires. He stood in 
92 Test matches, the last of them in June 2005, the most for any English 
umpire. He also umpired 172 ODIs, including three consecutive World Cup 
finals in 1996, 1999 and 2003 Shepherd was born in Bideford in Devon. His 
father Herbert was a sub-postmaster, having earlier worked in the Merchant 
Navy. His father had played cricket and rugby in his youth, and became 
an umpire for North Devon Cricket Club after losing the sight in one eye 
in the First World War. Shepherd's brother Bill was also a cricketer who 
captained MCC Young Professionals, but became postmaster at his parents' 
post office in Instow in the 1960s, playing club and the Minor Counties 
cricket.[2] He was educated at Barnstaple Grammar School, where he played 
for the school first XI from the second form and became head boy. He then 
studied at St Luke's College, Exeter. He also played cricket for Devon 
Colts and England Schools, including one match against his brother captaining 
MCC Young Professionals at Lord's. He became a teacher in Bideford and 
Ilfracombe, also playing Minor Counties cricket for Devon from 1959 to 
1964, mainly as a batsman. After scoring 100 not out for Gloucestershire's 
Second XI in 1964, Shepherd had a reasonably successful, though late-starting, 
first class playing career for Gloucestershire, stretching from 1965 to 
1979, and though he never came close to international selection he was 
popular both with his team-mates and the Gloucestershire supporters. He 
started with a bang, scoring 108 on debut against Oxford University in 
April 1965, and made eleven more hundreds over the years, though only twice 
(in 1969 and 1975) did he average over 30. Mainly a middle-order batsman, 
and never the slimmest of men even in his younger days, he relied more 
on his fine shot placement than speed across the ground, and his bowling 
was almost non-existent: he took only two wickets in his entire first-class 
career. One famous incident at the Gloucestershire Cricket Club saw Shepherd 
hitting the ball so hard into the crowd that it knocked out a spectator 
reading a newspaper. The spectator was taken to hospital and recovered 
with only minor injuries. After retiring from his playing career in 1979, 
Shepherd decided against becoming a coach, and decided to become an umpire 
instead. He began his second career in cricket, and the one which was to 
make him world-famous, when he was appointed as a first-class umpire in 
1981. Quickly recognised as being one of the fairest-minded and most able 
officials in the game, within two years he was part of the umpiring panel 
for the 1983 World Cup, and within four he was standing in his first Test: 
the fourth Test of the 1985 Ashes series at Old Trafford. Standing with 
him in this test was Dickie Bird. From then on, Shepherd became a fixture 
on the international scene, his round figure instantly recognisable by 
players and spectators alike. He was a very jolly character, with red face 
and white hair under a white flat cap, universally liked on and off the 
field. Perhaps his most famous quirk was his habit of lifting one foot 
off the ground whenever the score reached 111, or multiples thereof, they 
being regarded as unlucky by Shepherd in a ritual dating back to his childhood 
cricket team days.[3] The number 111 is known as the "Nelson",[3] and is 
considered unlucky for the batsman. Among other superstitions, he would 
tie a matchstick to a finger on Friday 13th, so he would be touching wood 
to bring good luck all day. Also famous was his tendency to shake his hand 
while signalling fours; to this day, many fans in cricket crowds mimic 
his action while celebrating fours. If the situation demanded, Shepherd 
could be very firm, notably when initially warning the Pakistan captain, 
Waqar Younis, in the 2003 World Cup against Australia for bowling fast 
'beamers' (a full toss that reaches the batsman between waist and head 
height, being dangerous as it is extremely hard to detect for the batsman 
– akin to a Beanball in baseball). Waqar again transgressed and Shepherd 
ordered his removal from the attack becoming the first umpire to have taken 
such an action during an international match. He considered retiring after 
he received much adverse press coverage in 2001, when Pakistan won the 
Old Trafford Test against England, after Shepherd gave three England batsmen 
out to no balls bowled by Saqlain Mushtaq, who had stepped over the crease, 
but he was part of the ICC's first Elite Panel of neutral umpires established 
in 2002, and retained his place unbroken until his retirement from umpiring 
in 2005.[4] As his retirement loomed, Shepherd was lauded wherever he went. 
He was given a guard of honour by the New Zealand and Australian teams 
during the series between the two countries in March 2005. After his last 
Test, that between West Indies and Pakistan at Kingston, Jamaica in June 
2005, Shepherd was presented with a bat by West Indian captain Brian Lara. 
He was in fact given special dispensation by the ICC to umpire in an Ashes 
match between England and Australia at Lord's as his final Test, but turned 
down the opportunity to maintain the ICC's neutral umpiring policy for 
Test matches.[5] His fellow umpire Simon Taufel said of him, as quoted 
in his Wisden obituary: "What doesn't get highlighted is man-management 
skills, creating a happy environment for players to play in. And Shep was 
magnificent at that. The players had this enormous respect for him as a 
person. He put them at their ease and forged relationships that crossed 
all cultural and political divides." In that obituary, the obituarist himself 
wrote: "The authorities struggle for a definition of the Spirit of Cricket. 
Perhaps the best answer is David Shepherd.[6] Shepherd was awarded the 
MBE for services to cricket in 1987, and he became the President of his 
home county club Devon in 2006. Shepherd was the first umpire to officiate 
in at least one Test match in all the Test-playing nations (10 nations 
as of April 2013).[7] Shepherd retired to Devon, and returned to live in 
the seaside village of Instow, occasionally working in his brother's post 
office. He was married to Jenny, his partner since 1973, in 2008. He died 
