David Aldridge (born February 10, 1965 in Washington, D.C.) is a reporter 
for the Turner television networks TNT, TBS and TBD. He is also a former 
reporter of NBA TV and ESPN. Aldridge is a graduate of DeMatha Catholic 
High School and American University and worked as a writer for The Washington 
Post, where he spent nine years. During that time Aldridge was a beat writer 
covering Georgetown University basketball, the Washington Bullets, and 
the Washington Redskins. He also covered the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, 
national college basketball and football, the Super Bowl, the Stanley Cup 
playoffs, the World Series, the Indianapolis 500, and the U.S. Open tennis 
championships. To this day he is still an avid fan of American University 
basketball. Before joining TNT in 2004, Aldridge reported for ESPN for 
eight years, primarily covering the NBA while occasionally doing National 
Football League pieces. He wrote for ESPN.com and contributed to ESPN Radio. 
Aldridge frequently appeared on SportsCenter as well as NBA 2 Night (now 
NBA Fastbreak) and NBA Today. Aldridge conducted interviews for the SportsCenter 
"Sunday Conversations" with LeBron James, Allen Iverson, Shaquille O'Neal, 
Karl Malone and many others. He worked as an NBA sideline reporter both 
for ABC and ESPN in 2003 and 2004. Aldridge worked at the Philadelphia 
Inquirer from 2004 to 2008, covering the National Football League and National 
Basketball Association as a reporter and columnist. He was part of the 
Inquirer team that received a second-place award for the series "The Future 
of Pro Sports" in 2005 from the Society of Professional Journalists, Greater 
Philadelphia Chapter. He was initially scheduled to be one of dozens laid 
off at the paper in January 2007,[1] but was retained. He works as the 
"Insider" for TNT's Inside the NBA and does sideline reporting work during 
the regular season, All-Star Weekend and the NBA Playoffs. He is also co-host 
of the weekly show The Beat on NBA TV, and is a commentator for other NBA 
on TNT features. He has worked as a sideline reporter for television broadcasts 
of college football games and the Major League Baseball divisional series. 
From February 2007 through June 2008, he appeared on The Tony Kornheiser 
Show on Washington Post Radio and later WWWT in Washington, D.C. as co-host. 
He returned as sometime co-host of the latest incarnation on WTEM in September 
