David Russell Strathairn (pronounced stra-THAIRN; born January 26, 1949) 
is an American actor. Strathairn came to prominence in the 1980s and '90s 
performing in the films of his college classmate John Sayles, including 
Return of the Secaucus 7 (his screen debut), The Brother from Another Planet, 
Matewan, City of Hope, Eight Men Out, and Limbo. Strathairn was nominated 
for an Academy Award for Best Actor for portraying journalist Edward R. 
Murrow in Good Night, and Good Luck (2005). He is also recognized for his 
role as CIA Deputy Director Noah Vosen in the 2007 film The Bourne Ultimatum, 
a role he reprised in 2012's The Bourne Legacy. He played a prominent role 
as Dr. Lee Rosen on the Syfy series Alphas from 2011 to 2012 and played 
Secretary of State William Henry Seward in Steven Spielberg's Lincoln (2012). 
He was nominated for an Emmy and Golden Globe for his role in the TV film 
Temple Grandin (2010). Strathairn was born in San Francisco, California, 
the second of three children of Mary Frances (née Frazier), a nurse, and 
Thomas Scott Strathairn, Jr., a physician.[1][2][3] He is of Scottish descent 
through his paternal grandfather, Thomas Scott Strathairn, a native of 
Crieff, and of Native Hawaiian ancestry through his paternal grandmother, 
Josephine Lei Victoria Alana.[4][5][6] Strathairn attended Redwood High 
School in Larkspur, California, and graduated from Williams College in 
Williamstown, Massachusetts, in 1970. He studied clowning at the Ringling 
Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Clown College in Venice, Florida,[7] and briefly 
worked as a clown in a traveling circus.[8] Strathairn was nominated for 
an Academy Award for his starring portrayal of CBS newsman Edward R. Murrow 
in the 2005 biopic Good Night, and Good Luck. The film explored Murrow's 
clash with Senator Joseph McCarthy over McCarthy's Communist "witch-hunt" 
in the 1950s. Strathairn also received Best Actor Golden Globe and Screen 
Actors Guild (SAG) nominations for his performance. In 2010, he won the 
Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Miniseries or 
a Movie for his portrayal of Dr. Carlock in the HBO television film Temple 
Grandin. For that role he also won the Satellite Award for Best Supporting 
Actor – Series, Miniseries or Television Film and was nominated for a Golden 
Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor – Series, Miniseries or Television 
Film. Other notable film roles include his portrayals of the title character 
in Harrison's Flowers (2000); Col. Craig Harrington "Memphis Belle" 1990, 
the wisecracking blind techie in Sneakers (1992); general manager Ira Lowenstein 
in A League of Their Own; Joe St. George in Dolores Claiborne (1995); Pierce 
Patchett, a millionaire involved in the seedy side of 1950s Los Angeles 
in L.A. Confidential (1997) ; Theseus, Duke of Athens, in the 1999 version 
of A Midsummer Night's Dream; and baseball player Eddie Cicotte in Eight 
Men Out (1988). Strathairn is a character actor, appearing in supporting 
roles in many independent and Hollywood films. In this capacity, he has 
co-starred in Twisted as a psychiatrist; in The River Wild as a husband; 
as a jailbird brother in The Firm. He has worked with his Williams College 
classmate and director John Sayles. He made his film debut in Return of 
the Secaucus 7, and worked in the films Passion Fish, Matewan, Limbo and 
City of Hope, for which he won the Independent Spirit Award. Alongside 
Sayles, he played one of the "men in black" in the 1983 film The Brother 
from Another Planet. Strathairn created the role of Edwin Booth with Maryann 
Plunkett in a workshop production of Booth! A House Divided, by W. Stuart 
McDowell, at The Players in New York.[9] His television work includes a 
range of roles: Moss, the bookselling nebbish on the critically acclaimed 
The Days and Nights of Molly Dodd; Captain Keller, the father of Helen 
Keller in the 2000 remake of The Miracle Worker; Capt. Frederick Benteen, 
a U.S. 7th Cavalry officer under General Custer's command in Son of the 
Morning Star; and a far-out (both figuratively and literally) televangelist 
in Paradise, the pilot episode for a TV series on Showtime that was not 
successful.[10] Strathairn had a recurring role on the hit television drama 
The Sopranos. Strathairn starred in the second-season episode, "Out Where 
the Buses Don't Run", in Miami Vice. Strathairn was in We Are Marshall, 
a 2006 film about the rebirth of Marshall University's football program 
after the 1970 plane crash that killed most of the team's members; and 
Cold Souls, starring Paul Giamatti as a fictionalised version of himself, 
who enlists a company's services to deep freeze his soul, directed by Sophie 
Barthes.[11] In 2006 he did a campaign ad for then congressional candidate 
(now, Senator) Kirsten Gillibrand. He reprised his role as Edward R. Murrow 
in a speech similar to the one from Good Night, and Good Luck, but was 
altered to reference Gillibrand's opponent John Sweeney.[12] Strathairn 
plays the lead role in the 2007 independent film, Steel Toes, a film by 
David Gow (writer/co-director/producer) and Mark Adam (co-director/DOP/editor). 
The film is based on Gow's stage play Cherry Docs, in which Strathairn 
starred for its American premiere at the Wilma Theatre in Philadelphia. 
He played a role in the summer 2007 film The Bourne Ultimatum and appeared 
in Paramount Pictures' children's film The Spiderwick Chronicles (2008) 
as Arthur Spiderwick. Strathairn appeared in the American Experience PBS 
anthology series documentary, The Trials of J. Robert Oppenheimer, a biography 
of the physicist. He first played Oppenheimer in the 1989 CBS TV movie 
Day One. He plays William Flynn, an FBI agent dealing with anarchism in 
1920s New York City, in No God, No Master. In 2009, Strathairn performed 
in The People Speak, a documentary feature film that uses dramatic and 
musical performances of the letters, diaries, and speeches of everyday 
Americans. It was adapted from the historian Howard Zinn's A People's History 
of the United States.[13] He starred as Dr. Lee Rosen on Syfy's series 
Alphas.[14] Strathairn is also a stage actor and has performed over 30 
theatrical roles. He performed several roles in stage plays by Harold Pinter. 
He played Stanley in two consecutive New York Classic Stage Company (CSC) 
productions of Pinter's 1957 play The Birthday Party, directed by Carey 
Perloff (since 1992 artistic director of the American Conservatory Theatre), 
in 1988[15] and 1989;[16] the dual roles of prison Officer and Prisoner 
in Pinter's 1989 play Mountain Language (in a double bill with the second 
CSC Rep production of The Birthday Party);[17] Edwin Booth in a workshop 
production by W. Stuart McDowell at The Players in 1989; Kerner, in Tom 
Stoppard's Hapgood (1994); and Devlin, opposite Lindsay Duncan's Rebecca, 
in Pinter's 1996 two-hander Ashes to Ashes in the 1999 New York premiere 
by the Roundabout Theatre Company.[1][18] Strathairn narrated a biographical 
video to introduce Barack Obama before his acceptance speech at the 2008 
Democratic National Convention.[19] He is married to Logan Goodman, a nurse. 
They have two sons and live near Poughkeepsie, New York. He serves on the 
