On July 18, 1999, David Cone of the New York Yankees pitched the 16th perfect 
game (no opposing batters reach first base) in Major League Baseball (MLB) 
history and the third in team history, and the first no-hit game in regular 
season interleague play. Pitching against the Montreal Expos at Yankee 
Stadium in The Bronx in front of 41,930 fans in attendance, Cone retired 
all 27 batters that he faced. The game took 3 hours and 19 minutes, from 
1:35 PM ET to 4:54 PM ET; the game was interrupted by a 33-minute rain 
delay in the bottom of the third inning in the middle of an at-bat for 
Tino Martinez. As part of the day's "Yogi Berra Day" festivities honoring 
the Yankees' former catcher, before the game, former Yankees pitcher Don 
Larsen threw the ceremonial first pitch to Berra; the two comprised the 
battery for Larsen's perfect game in 1956. Cone's perfect game was the 
247th no-hitter in MLB history, and 11th and last to date no-hitter in 
Yankees history. The previous perfect game in both MLB and Yankee history 
was 14 months prior on May 17, 1998, when David Wells pitched a perfect 
game against the Minnesota Twins at Yankee Stadium; Wells' perfect game 
was also the most recent no-hitter in franchise history at the time. Cone's 
perfect game gave the Yankees the record for the franchise with most perfect 
games, breaking a two-perfect game tie with the Cleveland Indians. Since 
Cone's perfecto, the Oakland Athletics, Philadelphia Phillies, and Chicago 
White Sox have recorded their second perfect games, with the White Sox 
tying the Yankees with a third perfect game in 2012. To date, Cone's perfect 
game is the only one achieved in regular season interleague play.[1] David 
Cone was a third round pick in the 1981 Major League Baseball draft by 
the Kansas City Royals. Cone made his major league debut on June 8, 1986. 
He pitched the ninth inning in a 5–2 loss against the Minnesota Twins. 
He allowed one earned run and three hits. He was traded to the New York 
Mets prior to the start of the 1987 season. The Mets made him a starter 
and made his first career start on April 27 against the Houston Astros. 
He pitched five innings, giving up ten hits, seven earned runs and striking 
out three. Cone would pitch for the Mets until 1992. He was traded at the 
deadline to the Toronto Blue Jays and helped them to their first World 
Series. Cone would return to the Royals for the 1993 and 1994 seasons. 
He was traded for a second time to the Blue Jays prior to the 1995 season. 
At the 1995 trade deadline he was dealt to the Yankees. Prior to his perfecto 
he helped the Yankees to the postseason four straight years, winning two 
World Series and was a 20-game winner in 1998. The Yankees' third perfect 
game was witnessed by the battery that executed its first perfect game. 
Before the game began, Don Larsen, who himself had thrown a perfect game 
in the 1956 World Series, threw out the ceremonial first pitch to Yogi 
Berra, who caught that game.[2] It was Yogi Berra Day at the stadium, as 
he had recently reconciled with owner George Steinbrenner.[3] David Cone 
never worked a count more than 2–0. A 33-minute rain delay interrupted 
the game in the third inning.[4] The Yankees scored the bulk of their runs 
in the second inning. Chili Davis walked, then Ricky Ledée proceeded to 
hit a home run into the upper right field deck. Scott Brosius was hit by 
a pitch, then was knocked in on a double by Joe Girardi. Girardi was tagged 
out for trying to stretch the hit into a triple and was caught between 
2nd and 3rd. Chuck Knoblauch worked a walk and then Derek Jeter hit a home 
run to make it 5–0. In the eighth inning, O'Neill led off with a double 
to right and was scored on a single to center by Bernie Williams. In the 
third inning, Cone recorded three strikeouts. In the eighth inning, Knoblauch 
made another game saving play when Jose Vidro hit a ball hard between first 
and second. He had rapid range to his left and preserved the perfect game. 
A summer afternoon game at Yankee Stadium always brings harsh visibility 
conditions due to the sun. The latter innings of the game would always 
test the defense for both teams. Cone struck out Chris Widger swinging 
to start the inning. Ryan McGuire pinch hit for Shane Andrews and hit a 
soft fly ball to left field for Ricky Ledée. Ledée struggled to meet the 
ball due to blinding sunlight but made the play and would claim afterward 
he was not sure how he did so. The last batter, Orlando Cabrera, popped 
up to third baseman Scott Brosius in foul territory to end the game.[4] 
Immediately afterwards, Cone fell on his knees and into the arms of his 
catcher Girardi. David Cone had nearly the same Yankee lineup behind him 
for his perfect game as David Wells did. The only exceptions were that 
Cone had Ledee as his left fielder and Davis as his designated hitter, 
while Wells was backed by Chad Curtis and Darryl Strawberry respectively. 
In addition Jorge Posada who was on the bench for Cone's perfect game was 
David Wells' battery mate in 1998. After his perfect game, Cone seemed 
to decline rapidly. He never threw another shutout in his career. In 2000, 
he posted a career-worst 4–14 record[5] with a 6.91 ERA. In the 2000 World 
Series, he faced one batter, Mike Piazza in Game 4, to whom he induced 
a pop-up to end the fifth inning.[6] Italics denotes post-season perfect game 
