David Nemec (born December 10, 1938) is an American baseball historian, 
novelist and playwright. Born in Cleveland, Ohio, Nemec spent most of his 
adolescence in Bay Village, Ohio. In his senior year of high school he 
was named the first winner of the prestigious Ed Bang scholarship, created 
to honor the "Dean of American Sports Writers." Nemec subsequently played 
outfield and first base for Ohio State University while earning a BA in 
English (graduating in 1960).[1] After serving in the army, he taught and 
coached in Cleveland public schools while working on a novel about the 
Sam Sheppard murder case, which occurred in his hometown of Bay Village. 
Sheppard had been Nemec’s family physician prior to his 1954 conviction 
for his wife’s slaying, which was later overturned. Nemec moved to New 
York City with his first wife, the visual artist Vernita Nemec (aka Vernita 
N’Cognita) in 1965. In 1967 he won a Transatlantic Review award for his 
first published story, "On the Produce Dock". Throughout the 1970s Nemec 
worked as a parole officer in the Youthful Offender Bureau with the New 
York State Division of Parole while he continued to publish stories, two 
of which gained citations in The Best American Short Stories. The parole 
experience later provided the backdrop for Nemec’s second novel, Mad Blood, 
based loosely on the 1963 Wylie-Hoffert murder case. In August 1973, Nemec 
was awarded the first of several residencies he was to spend at Yaddo, 
the artists’ and writers’ colony in Saratoga Springs, New York. Following 
his second Yaddo stay in 1975, Nemec drew on his vast knowledge of baseball 
history to create The Absolutely Most Challenging Baseball Quiz Book, Ever 
(Macmillan, 1977), it launched a series of popular Nemec baseball quiz 
books. Toward the end of the 1970s, Nemec returned to fiction, publishing 
his first novel, Bright Lights, Dark Rooms. He has since published seven 
more novels. During the 1990s, Nemec expanded on the research he had done 
for his historical baseball novel, Early Dreams, to become a scholar on 
baseball’s infancy as a professional sport. Since 1987, Nemec has authored 
or co-authored over 20 books on baseball, many focusing on the game’s embryonic 
years. In 1994, Lyons & Burford published The Rules of Baseball, Nemec’s 
anecdotal look at the evolution of the rules of the game. The following 
year the same publisher brought out his The Beer and Whisky League, a history 
of the American Association during its ten-year existence (1882–1891) as 
a rebel major league. In 1997, Donald I. Fine Books published Nemec’s The 
Great Encyclopedia of Nineteenth Century Major League Baseball. The book 
was updated and expanded and reissued in 2006 by the University of Alabama. 
Nemec has received The Sporting News Research Award, the McFarland Baseball 
Research Award, playwriting grants from The Impossible Ragtime Theater 
and the Huntington Playhouse, fellowships in creative writing and numerous 
residency fellowships at the Corporation of Yaddo, the MacDowell Colony, 
the Virginia Center for the Creative Arts and the Edward Albee Foundation. 
He has taught writing at the College of Marin, St. Mark’s Church in the 
Bowery and prisons in the San Francisco Bay Area. Nemec is a member of 
SABR, [the Society for American Baseball Research] and a recipient of a 
lifetime Henry Chadwick Award, which was established in 2009 to honor baseball's 
greatest researchers. Among his most recent baseball books are, Major League 
Baseball Profiles: 1871-1900, vols. 1 & 2; "The Rank and File of 19th Century 
Major League Baseball, a trilogy of biographies of every 19th century player, 
major owner, manager, league official and regular umpire; and "Forfeits 
and Successfully Protested Major League Games: A Complete Record 1871-2013". 
Other works of his have been anthologized in Survival Prose," Twilight 
Zone, Crimes of 20th Century, Baseball and the Game of Life, Nine, Spitball 
Magazine, A History of Baseball in the San Francisco Bay Area, The Four 
Dynasties of the New York Yankees, Base Ball, Working Artist, and Contemporary 
Authors. He currently lives in Eastport, New York with his wife, the teacher 
and author Marilyn Foster, and is the stepfather of the film and TV actress 
