A doubleheader (in the classic sense) is a set of two baseball games played 
between the same two teams on the same day in front of the same crowd. 
In addition, the term is often used unofficially to refer to a pair of 
games played by a team in a single day, but in front of different crowds 
and not in immediate succession. In Major League Baseball, for many decades, 
doubleheaders were routinely scheduled several times each season. However, 
today a doubleheader is generally the result of a prior game between the 
same two teams being postponed due to inclement weather or other factors. 
Most often the game is rescheduled for a day on which the two teams play 
each other again. Often it is within the same series, but in some cases, 
may be weeks or months after the original date. On rare occasions, the 
last game between two teams in that particular city is rained out, and 
a doubleheader may be scheduled at the other team's home park to replace 
the missed game. Currently, major league teams playing two games in a day 
usually play a "day-night doubleheader," in which the stadium is emptied 
of spectators and a separate admission is required for the second game. 
However, such games are officially regarded as separate games on the same 
date, rather than as a doubleheader. True doubleheaders are less commonly 
played, and usually are of the twi-night variety. Classic doubleheaders, 
also known as day doubleheaders, were more common in the past, but although 
they are vanishingly rare in the major leagues, they still are played at 
the minor league and college levels. In 1959, at least one league played 
a quarter of their games as classic doubleheaders, which declined to 10% 
in 1979 and further to the point that there were eight years between two 
officially scheduled doubleheaders. Reasons for the decline include clubs' 
desire to maximize revenue, longer duration of games, five-day pitching 
rotation as opposed to four-day rotation, time management of relievers 
and catchers, and lack of consensus amongst players.[1] In a twi-night 
doubleheader (short for "twilight-night" doubleheader), the first game 
is played in the late afternoon; after the first game ends, there is a 
break of 20 to 30 minutes, after which the second game is played. A spectator 
may attend both games by purchasing a single ticket. Under the Collective 
Bargaining Agreement, this is allowed provided the start time of the first 
game is no later than 5 PM, although they will generally start at 4 PM. 
For statistical purposes, the attendance is counted only for the second 
game, with the first game's attendance recorded as zero. This type of doubleheader 
is more common in Minor League Baseball as the result of rainouts. They 
are also played in Major League cities with open-air ballparks and climates 
that are too hot for day games. The "classic" doubleheader is like the 
twi-night doubleheader except the first game is played in the early afternoon 
and the second in the late afternoon. This was often done out of necessity 
in the years before many ballparks had lights; often if either game went 
into extra innings the second game was eventually called due to darkness. 
However, it is presently less common in the major leagues, even for rain 
makeups, since the use of lights in baseball stadiums allow most games 
to be scheduled for the night. Like the twi-night doubleheader, this type 
of doubleheader is more prominent in the Minor Leagues. The last one scheduled 
in Major League Baseball was the Detroit Tigers at the Cleveland Indians 
on September 13, 2015.[2] Prior traditional doubleheaders were the Pittsburgh 
Pirates at the New York Yankees on May 18, 2014,[3] San Diego Padres at 
the Cleveland Indians on April 9, 2014, the New York Yankees at the Cleveland 
Indians on May 13, 2013,[4] the Los Angeles Angels at the Oakland Athletics 
on July 17, 2011, and the San Diego Padres at the Philadelphia Phillies 
on August 2, 2003.[1] In a "day-night doubleheader", the first game is 
played in the early afternoon and the second is played at night; in this 
scenario, spectators must buy separate tickets to gain admittance to both 
games. Except in special circumstances by the approval of the MLBPA, such 
as a makeup game resulting from a rain-out, this is prohibited under the 
terms of the 2002 Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA). On August 22, 
2012, the Miami Marlins played a day-night doubleheader at the Arizona 
Diamondbacks due to a scheduling error violating another section of the 
CBA, which prohibits 23 consecutive games without a day off.[5] The Elias 
Sports Bureau does not include this as a doubleheader for the sake of record 
books, nor do the official playing rules recognize such games as official 
doubleheaders. However, they are favored by MLB clubs because they can 
realize revenue from gate receipts for two games. Since the 2012 season, 
the CBA has allowed teams to expand their active roster to 26 players for 
day-night doubleheaders, as long as those doubleheaders were scheduled 
with at least 48 hours' notice.[6] Technically, MLB's 2014 season began 
with a day-night doubleheader on March 22, 2014 between the LA Dodgers 
and Arizona Diamondbacks. These games were played in Australia on Saturday 
evening, March 22, and Sunday afternoon, March 23, local time, but due 
to a +14 hour time difference started at 4 AM Eastern and 10 PM Eastern 
on March 22, 2014, respectively at MLB Headquarters in New York City. As 
of July 31, 2014, there are 23 doubleheaders (including opening day) on 
the 2014 schedule according to ESPN.[7] There are three recorded instances 
of a tripleheader in Major League Baseball, indicating three games between 
the same two teams on the same day. These occurred between the Brooklyn 
Bridegrooms and Pittsburgh Innocents on September 1, 1890 (Brooklyn won 
all three); between the Baltimore Orioles and Louisville Colonels on September 
7, 1896 (Baltimore won all three); and between the Pittsburgh Pirates and 
Cincinnati Reds on October 2, 1920[8] (Cincinnati won two of the three). 
Triple headers are now prohibited under the current collective bargaining 
agreement, except when the first game is the conclusion of a game suspended 
from a prior date. This would only happen in the extremely rare case of 
the only remaining dates between teams being doubleheaders and no single 
games are left for the suspended game to precede. In college and the minor 
leagues, however, the doubleheader also results in shorter games. In most 
instances, both ends of such a doubleheader are seven innings, even if 
it is a playoff game; in 1994, the first game of the five-game Pacific 
Coast League championship series between Vancouver and Albuquerque was 
rained out; the two teams played a doubleheader, seven innings each, on 
the originally-scheduled date of the second game. In the minors, the only 
exception is when the first game is the completion of a suspended game 
from a prior day; i.e., the game was started but was halted by weather 
before becoming an official game. In these cases, the suspended game is 
played to completion (seven or nine innings, whichever it was scheduled 
to be when it started), and the second game of the doubleheader is seven 
innings. The home-and-home doubleheader, where each team hosts one game, 
is extremely rare, as it requires the teams' home ballparks to be in close 
geographical proximity. During the 20th century and before the advent of 
interleague play in 1997, only one instance was recorded in Major League 
Baseball—a Labor Day special event involving the New York Giants and Brooklyn 
Superbas. This is the only home-and-home doubleheader known to have been 
part of the original major league season schedule.[9][1] Since interleague 
play began, the New York Mets and the New York Yankees have on three occasions 
played home-and-home doubleheaders. Each occasion was due to a rainout 
during the first series of the season. During the second series of the 
season, a makeup game was scheduled at the ballpark of the opposing team 
as part of a day-night doubleheader. On September 13, 1951, the St. Louis 
Cardinals hosted a double header against two different teams. The first 
game was a 6-4 win against the New York Giants. The second game resulted 
in a 2-0 loss to the Boston Braves.[10] On September 25, 2000, the Cleveland 
Indians also hosted a doubleheader against two different teams. The September 
10 game against the Chicago White Sox in Cleveland had been rained out. 
With no common days off for the remainder of the season and both teams 
in a post-season race, the teams agreed to play a day game in Cleveland 
on the same day that the Indians were to host the Minnesota Twins for a 
night game. The Indians defeated the White Sox 9-2 in the first game while 
the Twins defeated the Indians 4-3 in the second.[11] On July 23, 2013, 
the Cincinnati Reds and the San Francisco Giants played a unique doubleheader 
in which the Reds were the designated home team for Game 2 even though 
the game was held at AT&T Park, the Giants ballpark. Since the last game 
of a four-game series in Cincinnati was rained out earlier in the year 
and both the Giants and the Reds had a game the next day, it was not possible 
to reschedule the game the day after, so the game spilled over into what 
should have been a three-game series in San Francisco. MLB decided to preserve 
what should have been the Reds' home field advantage by making them the 
designated home team for that game. Cincinnati won the first game of the 
doubleheader 9-3 as the road team, but lost the second game 5-3 while acting 
as the home team. A similar situation arose in 2007 when snow storms in 
northern Ohio caused the Cleveland Indians to postpone their home opening 
series against the Seattle Mariners; three of the games were made up in 
Cleveland when both teams had off days during various points in the season 
while the fourth was made up as part of a doubleheader in Seattle on September 
26, 2007 with the Indians as the designated home team for the first game. 
The Indians won the first game acting as the home team 12-4 but lost the 
second as the road team 3-2 in extra innings. In a paper in American Statistician, 
Michael Goodman makes the claim that doubleheaders are swept more often 
than they are split. Recently, this has held more or less true: in 2013, 
18 out of 25 double headers were swept, but in 2012 only 10 out of 20 were 
swept. As of July 31, 2014, 11 out of 19 doubleheaders have been swept 
