The Daytona Tortugas are a minor league baseball team based in Daytona 
Beach, Florida. The team plays in the Florida State League (FSL). They 
are the Class A-Advanced affiliate of the Cincinnati Reds of Major League 
Baseball. The team plays at Radiology Associates Field at Jackie Robinson 
Ballpark; opened in 1914, the park seats 5,100 fans. In 2015, the inaugural 
season of Tortugas baseball, Daytona finished with a 77-58 record and won 
the Florida State League North Division Championship with a two-game sweep 
of the Clearwater Threshers in the first round of the playoffs. The club 
was previously known as the Daytona Cubs from 1993 to 2014 when the team 
was an affiliate of the Chicago Cubs. The team has won six Florida State 
League championships: in 1995, 2000, 2004 (co-champions with the Tampa 
Yankees), 2008, 2011 and 2013. Their sixth FSL Championship came over the 
Charlotte Stone Crabs, winning 3–1 in a best-of-five series. The last Florida 
State League (FSL) baseball team to play in Daytona Beach, was known as 
the Daytona Beach Admirals, the Class A affiliate of the Chicago White 
Sox. In September 1987, the White Sox decided to move their Class A affiliate 
to Sarasota. This left Daytona without a major league player development 
contract, resulting in the Admirals' owner selling the team to the New 
York Mets. The Mets moved the team to Port St. Lucie to become the St. 
Lucie Mets. Daytona did not have professional baseball for five years after 
the move.[1] Prior to 1993, the Chicago Cubs were affiliated with the Winston 
Salem Warthogs, a Class A team that played in the Carolina League. At the 
end of the 1992 season, the Cubs decided to move their Class A affiliate 
to Florida. The Florida State League originally assigned the transplanted 
Cubs team to play at Baseball City Stadium in Davenport. However, Jordan 
Kobritz, the new owner and general manager of the minor league franchise, 
wanted the team to play in Daytona Beach instead.[2] Negotiations to bring 
the Cubs to Daytona Beach went on for a couple of months and were completed 
just in time to start the new season.[3][4][5] The Daytona Cubs opened 
their first season on the road, sweeping the Vero Beach Dodgers, two games 
to zero.[6][7] The home opener was scheduled for April 12.[8] Jackie Robinson 
Ballpark was sold out on opening night.[7] Chelsea Clinton, President Clinton's 
daughter, was invited to Daytona to throw the opening pitch.[9] The young 
Ms. Clinton could not attend due to a family medical emergency, and Daytona 
Beach Mayor Larry Kelly and FSL President Chuck Murphy threw the ceremonial 
opening pitches instead.[7] The Cubs' public address announcer led fans 
in singing "Go, Cubs, Go", although with slightly altered lyrics (substituting 
"Daytona" for "Chicago"). The Daytona Cubs won their home opener 5-2 against 
the Sarasota White Sox, the Class A affiliate of the Chicago White Sox 
who left Daytona Beach five years earlier.[7] After the 2014 season, the 
Cubs ended their affiliation with Daytona, and signed a new contract with 
the Myrtle Beach Pelicans of the Carolina League.[10][11] Daytona reached 
an agreement with the Cincinnati Reds following the 2014 season, and announced 
the team would be rebranded with a new name with a "local angle" in 2015.[12] 
They chose the name "Tortugas".[13] On June 3, 2015, Big Game Florida, 
LLC, headed by Andy Rayburn, sold the team to Tortugas Baseball Club, LLC, 
headed by Reese Smith III. Smith plans to keep the team in Daytona.[14] 
The Daytona Tortugas' current, and only, ballpark is Jackie Robinson Ballpark. 
The venue has experienced several expansions and renovations since its 
completion in 1914, and currently seats 5,100 spectators. In 1999, Daytona 
Cubs' owner and General Manager Jordan Kobritz decided to move a home game 
to Melching Field at Conrad Park, located in nearby DeLand. This ballpark 
is the home of the Stetson University Hatters baseball team. Kobritz's 
goal was to generate some fan interest in the Cubs, in the western part 
of Volusia County, Florida. The game (vs. the St. Petersburg Devil Rays) 
was played on June 26, 1999.[16] In August 2004, the D-Cubs had to move 
several games to Melching Field, due to damage to Jackie Robinson Ballpark, 
caused by Hurricane Charley.[17][18] The Cubs paid another visit to Melching 
Field on June 20, 2007, when they played a double-header against the Palm 
Beach Cardinals. The game was moved this time to benefit a local charity 
in DeLand, as well as provide another opportunity to showcase the Daytona 
Cubs to fans in DeLand.[19] The team's color scheme consists of blue and 
green. Jerseys and pants for home games are made of white fabric with green 
trim, while those for road games are made of gray fabric with blue trim. 
On home jerseys, the word "Tortugas" is scripted across the chest in green. 
On road jerseys, the word "Daytona" is written across the chest in blue 
script. The player's number is written on the back in large green characters 
surrounded by blue. The team's batting practice uniforms, which double 
as alternate uniforms, are made green fabric. "Tortugas" is written across 
the chest in white script, trimmed in blue. There is a Daytona Tortugas 
logo on the right shoulder. Numbers, in white surrounded by blue, are sewn 
on the back in block characters. The official home and road caps were green 
with Daytona Tortugas logo centered on the front. The batting practice/alternate 
caps are blue in color, with a white front and blue brim. The alternate 
Shelldon head logo is in the center of the cap. A green belt is typically 
worn. From 1993 to 2014 as the Cubs, the team's color scheme consisted 
of red, white, and blue, the same colors used by the Chicago Cubs. The 
uniforms of the Daytona Cubs were descendants of the Chicago Cubs' uniforms. 
Jerseys and pants for home games were made of white fabric with blue pinstripes, 
while those for road games were made of gray fabric with blue pinstripes. 
On home jerseys, the Chicago Cubs logo was located on the left chest, and 
a Daytona Cubs logo was located on the left sleeve. On road jerseys, the 
word "Daytona" was written across the chest in red script, and a Daytona 
Cubs logo was present on the left shoulder. The player's number was written 
on the back in large blue characters surrounded by red. Blue T-shirts of 
varying sleeve lengths were worn underneath the jerseys. The team's batting 
practice uniforms, which doubled as alternate uniforms, were made of light 
blue fabric with white pinstripes. "Daytona" was written across the chest 
in red script. There was a Daytona Cubs logo on the left shoulder. Numbers, 
in blue surrounded by red, were sewn on the back in block characters. The 
official home and road caps were blue with either the Chicago Cubs or Daytona 
Cubs logo centered on the front. A blue belt was worn on all the different 
uniforms along with blue ankle-length socks. A mascot for games was developed 
from the logo: an anthropomorphic turtle ("Tortuga") named Shelldon. When 
he is not attending games, Shelldon acts as the team's Goodwill Ambassador, 
visiting local schools and charity events. Shelldon is green and white, 
with a blue shell on his back. He sports his white Tortuga jersey almost 
daily. Daytona Tortuga fans have learned to not get attached to any particular 
players, since the reward for superior play is to be taken away from Daytona 
and sent up to a higher farm team. Shelldon has been an adequate substitute 
to represent the team to the public. Prior to becoming the Tortugas, the 
Daytona Cubs originally used a version of the Chicago Cubs emblem. In 1994, 
the Cubs hired Benedict Advertising, a local marketing firm, to develop 
a new logo. Benedict's design department created a bear cub wearing sunglasses 
and a backwards baseball cap.[20] As a mascot, Cubby first appeared on 
the field on May 27, 1994. He had brown fur and wore the same style of 
uniform as the team, but wearing his hat backwards.[21] Since 2011, the 
Daytona Tortugas have enjoyed a radio partnership with "The Great Voice 
of Volusia County", AM 1230 and AM 1490 WSBB, to broadcast all the home 
and away games on the station. Luke Mauro, the Tortugas Director of Broadcasting 
and Media Relations, provides the play-by-play coverage.[22] Local newspaper 
coverage of the team is provided by The Daytona Beach News-Journal. Four 
Daytona players have hit for the cycle to date: Pitchers Catchers Infielders 
Outfielders Designated hitters Manager Coaches 7-day disabled list * On 
Cincinnati Reds 40-man roster # Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve list ‡ Restricted 
list § Suspended list † Temporary inactive list Roster updated October 
27, 2016 Transactions → More MiLB rosters → Cincinnati Reds minor league 
players Some Daytona players have distinguished themselves in the Florida 
State League Many Daytona players have advanced to play in the major leagues. 
Twelve men have managed Daytona baseball teams since the franchise's inception 
in 1993. Six managers have guided the team to win the FSL Championship: 
Dave Trembley (1995), Richie Zisk (2000), Steve McFarland (2004), Jody 
Davis (2008), Buddy Bailey (2011), and Dave Keller (2013).[15] Trembley 
won 290 games from 1995 to 1996 and 2001 to 2002, placing him first on 
the all-time wins list for Daytona managers. Having managed the team for 
545 games, he is also the longest-tenured manager in team history. The 
manager with the highest winning percentage over a full season or more 
is Steve McFarland (.556). Conversely, the lowest winning percentage over 
a season or more is .429 by the team's first manager, Bill Hays. Buddy 
Bailey managed his first Daytona game in 2006, was replaced as manager 
following the season but returned to Daytona in 2009. Eli Marrero is heading 
into his third season as the current manager of the Daytona Tortugas. The 
outside of Radiology Associates Field at Jackie Robinson Ballpark Daytona 
