Dayton (/ˈdeɪtən/; local pronunciation: /ˈdeɪʔn/) is the sixth-largest 
city in the state of Ohio and is the county seat of Montgomery County.[5] 
A small portion of the city extends into Greene County.[6] In the 2010 
census, the population was 141,527, and the Dayton metropolitan area had 
799,232 residents, making it Ohio's fourth-largest metropolitan area, after 
Cleveland, Cincinnati, and Columbus and the 63rd-largest in the United 
States.[7] The Dayton-Springfield-Greenville Combined Statistical Area 
had a population of 1,080,044 in 2010, making it the 43rd-largest in the 
United States.[8] Dayton is within Ohio's Miami Valley region, just north 
of the Cincinnati–Northern Kentucky metropolitan area. Ohio's borders are 
within 500 miles (800 km) of roughly 60 percent of the country's population 
and manufacturing infrastructure, making the Dayton area a logistical centroid 
for manufacturers, suppliers, and shippers.[9][10] Dayton also hosts significant 
research and development in fields like industrial, aeronautical, and astronautical 
engineering that have led to many technological innovations. Much of this 
innovation is due in part to Wright-Patterson Air Force Base and its place 
within the community. With the decline of heavy manufacturing, Dayton's 
businesses have diversified into a service economy that includes insurance 
and legal sectors as well as healthcare and government sectors. Other than 
defense and aerospace, healthcare accounts for much of the Dayton area's 
economy. Hospitals in the Greater Dayton area have an estimated combined 
employment of nearly 32,000 and a yearly economic impact of $6.8 billion.[11] 
It is estimated that Premier Health Partners, a hospital network, contributes 
more than $2 billion a year to the region through operating, employment, 
and capital expenditures.[12] In 2011, Dayton was rated the No. 3 city 
in the nation out of the top 50 cities in the United States by HealthGrades 
for excellence in health care.[13][14] Many hospitals in the Dayton area 
are consistently ranked by Forbes, U.S. News & World Report, and HealthGrades 
for clinical excellence. Dayton is also noted for its association with 
aviation; the city is home to the National Museum of the United States 
Air Force and is the birthplace of Orville Wright. Other well-known individuals 
born in the city include poet Paul Laurence Dunbar and entrepreneur John 
H. Patterson. Dayton is also known for its many patents, inventions, and 
inventors that have come from the area,[15] most notably the Wright brothers' 
invention of powered flight.[16] In 2008, 2009, and 2010, Site Selection 
magazine ranked Dayton the No. 1 mid-sized metropolitan area in the nation 
for economic development.[17][18][19] Also in 2010, Dayton was named one 
of the best places in the United States for college graduates to find a 
job.[20][21] Dayton was founded on April 1, 1796, by 12 settlers known 
as "The Thompson Party." They traveled in March from Cincinnati up the 
Great Miami River by pirogue and landed at what is now St. Clair Street, 
where they found two small camps of Native Americans. Among them was Benjamin 
Van Cleve,[22] whose memoirs provide insights into the Ohio Valley's history. 
Two other groups traveling overland arrived several days later.[23] In 
1797, Daniel C. Cooper laid out Mad River Road, the first overland connection 
between Cincinnati and Dayton, opening the "Mad River Country" to settlement. 
Ohio was admitted into the Union in 1803, and the city of Dayton was incorporated 
in 1805. The city was named after Jonathan Dayton, a captain in the American 
Revolutionary War who signed the U.S. Constitution and owned a significant 
amount of land in the area.[24] In 1827, construction on the Dayton-Cincinnati 
canal began, which would provide a better way to transport goods from Dayton 
to Cincinnati and contribute significantly to Dayton's economic growth 
during the 1800s.[24] Historically, Dayton has been the home for many patents 
and inventions since the 1870s.[15][25] According to the National Park 
Service, citing information from the U.S. Patent Office, Dayton had granted 
more patents per capita than any other U.S. city in 1890 and ranked fifth 
in the nation as early as 1870.[26][27] The Wright brothers, inventors 
of the airplane, and Charles F. Kettering, world-renowned for his numerous 
inventions, hailed from Dayton.[28] The city was also home to James Ritty's 
"Incorruptible Cashier", the first mechanical cash register, and Arthur 
E. Morgan's "hydraulic jump", a flood prevention mechanism that helped 
pioneer modern-day hydraulic engineering.[29][30] Paul Laurence Dunbar 
– a famous African-American poet and novelist – penned his most famous 
works in the late 19th century and became an integral part of the city's 
history.[31] Innovation led to business growth in the region. In 1884, 
John Henry Patterson acquired James Ritty's National Manufacturing Company 
along with his cash register patents and formed the National Cash Register 
Company (NCR). The company manufactured the first mechanical cash registers 
and played a crucial role in the shaping of Dayton's reputation as an epicenter 
for manufacturing in the early 1900s. In 1906, Charles F. Kettering, a 
leading engineer at the company, helped develop the first electric cash 
register, which propelled NCR into the national spotlight.[32] NCR also 
helped develop the US Navy bombe, a code-breaking machine that helped crack 
the Enigma machine cipher during World War II.[33] A catastrophic flood 
in March 1913, known as the Great Dayton Flood, led to the creation of 
the Miami Conservancy District, a series of dams and hydraulic jumps installed 
around Dayton, in 1914.[34] Like other cities across the country, Dayton 
was heavily involved in the war effort during World War II. Several locations 
around the city hosted the Dayton Project, a branch of the larger Manhattan 
Project, to develop polonium triggers used in early atomic bombs.[35] The 
war efforts led to a manufacturing boom throughout the city, including 
high demand for housing and other services. At one point, emergency housing 
was put into place due to a housing shortage in the region, much of which 
is still in use today.[36] Between the 1940s and the 1970s, the city saw 
significant growth in suburban areas from population migration. Veterans 
were returning from military service in large numbers seeking industrial 
and manufacturing jobs, a part of the local industry that was expanding 
rapidly. Advancements in architecture also contributed to the suburban 
boom. New, modernized shopping centers and the Interstate Highway System 
allowed workers to commute greater distances and families to live further 
from the downtown area. More than 127,000 homes were built in Montgomery 
County alone during the 1950s.[37] Since the 1980s, however, Dayton's population 
has declined, mainly due to the loss of manufacturing jobs and decentralization 
of metropolitan areas, as well as the national housing crisis that began 
in 2008.[38] While much of the state has suffered for similar reasons, 
the impact on Dayton has been greater than most. Dayton had the third-greatest 
percentage loss of population in the state since the 1980s, behind only 
Cleveland and Youngstown.[38] Despite this, Dayton has begun diversifying 
its workforce from manufacturing into other growing sectors such as healthcare 
and education.[39] Downtown expansion that began in the 2000s has helped 
revitalize the city and encourage growth. Fifth Third Field, home of the 
Dayton Dragons, was built in 2000. The highly successful minor league baseball 
team has been an integral part of Dayton's culture.[40] In 2001, the city's 
public park system, Five Rivers MetroParks, built an outdoor entertainment 
venue known as RiverScape MetroPark that attracts more than 400,000 visitors 
each year.[41] A new performance arts theater, the Schuster Center, opened 
in 2003.[42] A large health network in the region, Premier Health Partners, 
expanded its Miami Valley Hospital with a 12-story tower addition.[43] 
In 2010, the Downtown Dayton Partnership, in cooperation with the City 
of Dayton and community leaders, introduced the Greater Downtown Dayton 
Plan. It focuses on job creation and retention, infrastructure improvements, 
housing, recreation, and collaboration. The plan is to be implemented through 
the year 2020.[44] In 1995, the Dayton Agreement, a peace accord between 
the parties to the hostilities of the conflict in Bosnia-Herzegovina and 
the former Yugoslavia, was negotiated at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, 
near Fairborn, Ohio, from November 1 – 21. Richard Holbrooke wrote about 
this event in his memoirs: There was also a real Dayton out there, a charming 
Ohio city, famous as the birthplace of the Wright brothers.Its citizens 
energized us from the outset. Unlike the population of, say, New York City, 
Geneva or Washington, which would scarcely notice another conference, Daytonians 
were proud to be part of history. Large signs at the commercial airport 
hailed Dayton as the "temporary center of international peace". The local 
newspapers and television stations covered the story from every angle, 
drawing the people deeper into the proceedings. When we ventured into a 
restaurant or a shopping center downtown, people crowded around, saying 
that they were praying for us. Warren Christopher was given at least one 
standing ovation in a restaurant. Families on the air base placed "candles 
of peace" in their front windows, and people gathered in peace vigils outside 
the base. One day they formed a "peace chain", although it was not large 
enough to surround the sprawling eight-thousand-acre base. Ohio's famous 
ethnic diversity was on display.[45] Dayton is known as the "Gem City." 
The nickname's origin is uncertain, but several theories exist. In the 
early 19th century, a well-known racehorse named "Gem" hailed from Dayton. 
In 1845, an article published in the Cincinnati Daily Chronicle by an author 
known as "T" stated: In a small bend of the Great Miami River, with canals 
on the east and south, it can be fairly said, without infringing on the 
rights of others, that Dayton is the gem of all our interior towns. It 
possesses wealth, refinement, enterprise, and a beautiful country, beautifully 
developed.[46] In the late 1840s, Major William D. Bickham of the Dayton 
Journal began a campaign to nickname Dayton as the "Gem City". The name 
was adopted by the city's Board of Trade several years later.[46] Paul 
Laurence Dunbar referred to the nickname in his poem, "Toast to Dayton", 
as noted in the following excerpt: She shall ever claim our duty, For she 
shines—the brightest gem That has ever decked with beauty      Dear Ohio's 
diadem.[47] Dayton also plays a role in a nickname given to the state of 
Ohio: "Birthplace of Aviation". Dayton is the hometown of the Wright brothers, 
aviation pioneers who are credited with inventing and building the world's 
first successful airplane. After their first manned flights in Kitty Hawk, 
North Carolina, which they had chosen due to its ideal weather and climate 
conditions, the Wrights returned to Dayton and continued testing at nearby 
Huffman Prairie.[48] Additionally, Dayton is colloquially referred to as 
"Little Detroit".[49] This nickname comes from Dayton's prominence as a 
Midwestern manufacturing center.[50] According to the United States Census 
Bureau, the city has a total area of 56.50 square miles (146.33 km2), of 
which 55.65 square miles (144.13 km2) is land and 0.85 square miles (2.20 km2) 
is water.[1] Dayton's climate features hot, muggy summers and cold, dry 
winters, and is either classified as a humid subtropical climate (Köppen 
Cfa), using the −3 °C (26.6 °F) isotherm of the original Köppen scheme, 
or a humid continental climate (Köppen Dfa), using the 0 °C (32 °F) isotherm 
preferred by some climatologists. Unless otherwise noted, all normal figures 
quoted within the text below are from the official climatology station, 
Dayton International Airport, which, at an elevation of 1,000 ft (304.8 m) 
about 10 mi (16 km) to the north of downtown Dayton, which lies within 
the valley of the Miami River, and thus temperatures there are typically 
cooler than in downtown.[51] At the airport, monthly mean temperatures 
range from 27.5 °F (−2.5 °C) in January to 74.1 °F (23.4 °C) in July. The 
highest temperature ever recorded in Dayton was 108 °F (42 °C) on July 
22, 1901, and the coldest was −28 °F (−33 °C) on February 13, 1899. On 
average, there are 14 days of 90 °F (32 °C)+ highs and 4.5 nights of sub-0 °F 
(−18 °C) lows annually. Snow is moderate, with a normal seasonal accumulation 
of 23.3 in (59 cm),[a] usually occurring from November to March, occasionally 
April, and rarely October. Precipitation averages 41.1 inches (1,040 mm) 
annually, with total rainfall peaking in May. Dayton is subject to severe 
weather typical of the Midwestern United States. Tornadoes are possible 
from the spring to the fall. Floods, blizzards, and severe thunderstorms 
can also occur from time to time. Dayton's population declined significantly 
from a peak of 262,332 residents in 1960 to only 141,527 in 2010. This 
was in part due to the slowdown of the region's manufacturing and the growth 
of Dayton's affluent suburbs including Oakwood, Englewood, Beavercreek, 
Springboro, Miamisburg, Kettering, and Centerville.[59][60] The city's 
most populous ethnic group, white, declined from 78.1% in 1960 to 51.7% 
by 2010.[61] However, recent census estimates show a 1.3% population increase 
since 2010,[62] the first increase in five decades. As of the 2000 census, 
the median income for a household in the city was $27,523, and the median 
income for a family was $34,978. Males had a median income of $30,816 versus 
$24,937 for females. The per capita income for the city was $34,724. About 
18.2% of families and 23.0% of the population were below the poverty line, 
including 32.0% of those under age 18 and 15.3% of those age 65 or over. 
As of the 2010 census,[2] there were 141,527 people, 58,404 households, 
and 31,064 families residing in the city. The population density was 2,543.2 
inhabitants per square mile (981.9/km2). There were 74,065 housing units 
at an average density of 1,330.9 per square mile (513.9/km2). The racial 
makeup of the city was 51.7% White, 42.9% African American, 0.3% Native 
American, 0.9% Asian, 1.3% from other races, and 2.9% from two or more 
races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 3.0% of the population. There 
were 58,404 households of which 28.3% had children under the age of 18 
living with them, 25.9% were married couples living together, 21.4% had 
a female householder with no husband present, 5.9% had a male householder 
with no wife present, and 46.8% were non-families. 38.8% of all households 
were made up of individuals and 11.2% had someone living alone who was 
65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.26 and the average 
family size was 3.03. The median age in the city was 34.4 years. 22.9% 
of residents were under the age of 18; 14.2% were between the ages of 18 
and 24; 25.3% were from 25 to 44; 25.8% were from 45 to 64; and 11.8% were 
65 years of age or older. The gender makeup of the city was 48.7% male 
and 51.3% female. The 2013 census population estimate showed an increasing 
City of Dayton population for the first time in five decades attributed 
to revitalization efforts downtown and the increasing downtown population.[63] 
However, the 2014 population estimate indicates a net decrease of 897 individuals 
from 2013's estimate.[58] Dayton's economy is relatively diversified and 
vital to the overall economy of the state of Ohio. In 2008 and 2009, Site 
Selection magazine ranked Dayton the No. 1 medium-sized metropolitan area 
in the U.S. for economic development.[17][18] Dayton is also among the 
top 100 metropolitan areas in both exports and export-related jobs, ranked 
16 and 14 respectively by the Brookings Institution. The 2010 report placed 
the value of exports at $4.7 billion and the number of export-related jobs 
at 44,133.[64] The Dayton Metropolitan Statistical Area ranks 4th in Ohio's 
Gross Domestic Product with a 2008 industry total of $33.78 billion.[65] 
Additionally, Dayton ranks third among 11 major metropolitan areas in Ohio 
for exports to foreign countries.[66] The Dayton Development Coalition 
is attempting to leverage the regions large water capacity, estimated to 
be 1.5 trillion gallons of renewable water aquifers, to attract new businesses.[67][68] 
Moody's Investment Services revised Dayton's bond rating from A1 to the 
stronger rating of Aa2 as part of its global recalibration process. Standard 
& Poor's upgraded Dayton's rating from A+ to AA- in the summer of 2009.[69] 
Bloomberg Businessweek ranked Dayton in 2010 as one of the best places 
in the U.S. for college graduates looking for a job.[20][21] Companies 
such as Reynolds and Reynolds, CareSource, DPL, LexisNexis, Kettering Health 
Network, Premier Health Partners, and Standard Register have their headquarters 
in Dayton. It is also the former home of the Speedwell Motor Car Company, 
MeadWestvaco (formerly known as the Mead Paper Company), and NCR. NCR was 
headquartered in Dayton for over 125 years and was a major innovator in 
computer technology.[70] The Dayton region gave birth to aviation[71] and 
is known for its high concentration of aerospace and aviation technology. 
In 2009, Governor Ted Strickland designated Dayton as Ohio's aerospace 
innovation hub, the state's first such technology hub.[72] Two major United 
States research and development organizations have leveraged Dayton's historical 
leadership in aviation and maintain their headquarters in the area: The 
National Air and Space Intelligence Center (NASIC) and the Air Force Research 
Laboratory (AFRL). NASIC is the U.S. military's primary producer of intelligence 
on foreign air and space forces, weapons and systems, while the AFRL provides 
leading-edge warfighting capabilities to keep the United States air, space 
and cyberspace forces the world's best.[73] Both have their headquarters 
at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.[74] Wright-Patterson Air Force Base 
is one of the Air Force's largest air base wings. The installation generated 
a total economic impact in the Dayton area of $4.67 billion in fiscal year 
2011, a decline from $5.1 billion in fiscal year 2009.[75][76] In addition, 
state officials are working to make the Dayton region a hub and a leader 
for UAV research and manufacturing.[77] Several research organizations 
support NASIC, AFRL and the Dayton community. The Advanced Technical Intelligence 
Center, is a confederation of government, academic and industry partners 
that leverage advanced technical intelligence expertise. daytaOhio is a 
non-profit organization based at Wright State University in Dayton, which 
also hosts five Ohio Centers of Excellence,[78] one of which is the Knowledge 
Enabled Computing (Kno.e.sis) center which specializes in making technical 
advances in computer science areas such as Semantics and Big Data.[79] 
The University of Dayton Research Institute (UDRI), is led by the University 
of Dayton. In 2004 and 2005, UDRI was ranked No. 2 in the nation by the 
National Science Foundation in federal and industry-funded materials research. 
The Cognitive Technologies Division (CTD) of Applied Research Associates, 
Inc., which carries out human-centered research and design, is headquartered 
in the Dayton suburb of Fairborn. The city of Dayton has started Tech Town, 
a development project to attract technology-based firms and revitalize 
the downtown area. Tech Town is home to the world's first RFID business 
incubator.[80] The University of Dayton-led Institute for Development & 
Commercialization of Sensor Technologies (IDCAST) at TechTown is a world-class 
center for excellence in remote sensing and sensing technology. It is one 
of Dayton's technology business incubators housed in The Entrepreneurs 
Center building.[81] The Kettering Health Network and Premier Health Partners 
have a major role on the Dayton area's economy. Hospitals in the Greater 
Dayton area have an estimated combined employment of nearly 32,000, a yearly 
economic impact of $6.8 billion.[11] In addition, several Dayton area hospitals 
consistently earn top national ranking and recognition including the U.S. 
News & World Reports list of "America's Best Hospitals" as well as many 
of HealthGrades top ratings.[82] The most notable hospitals are Miami Valley 
Hospital and Kettering Medical Center. In 2011, the Dayton area was rated 
number three in the nation out of the top 50 cities in the United States 
by HealthGrades for excellence in healthcare.[13][14] Also in 2011, Dayton 
was ranked the fourth best in the nation for emergency medicine care.[83] 
Then in 2013, HealthGrades ranked the Dayton region number one in the nation 
for the lowest hospital mortality rate.[84] The Dayton region has several 
key institutes and centers for health care. The Center for Tissue Regeneration 
and Engineering at Dayton focuses on the science and development of human 
tissue regeneration. The National Center for Medical Readiness (NCMR) is 
also in the Dayton area. The center includes Calamityville which is a state-of-the 
art disaster training facility. It is conservatively estimated that over 
a period of five years, Calamityville will have a regional economic impact 
of $374 million.[85] Also, the Neurological Institute at Miami Valley Hospital 
is an institute focused on the diagnosis, treatment, and research of neurological 
disorders. According to Dayton's 2011 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report,[86] 
the top employers in the city proper are: The Dayton City Commission is 
composed of the Mayor and four City Commissioners. Each City Commission 
member is elected at-large on a non-partisan basis for four-year, overlapping 
terms. All policy items are decided by the City Commission, which is empowered 
by the City Charter to pass ordinances and resolutions, adopt regulations 
and appoint the City Manager. The City Manager is responsible for budgeting 
and implementing policies and initiatives. Dayton was the first large American 
city to adopt the city manager form of municipal government, in 1913.[87] 
Unlike many Midwestern cities its age, Dayton has very broad and straight 
downtown streets (generally two or three full lanes in each direction) 
that improved access to the downtown even after the automobile became popular. 
The main reason for the broad streets was that Dayton was a marketing and 
shipping center from its beginning: streets were broad to enable wagons 
drawn by teams of three to four pairs of oxen to turn around. In addition, 
some of today's streets were once barge canals flanked by draw-paths. A 
courthouse building was built in downtown Dayton in 1888 to supplement 
Dayton's original Neoclassical courthouse, which still stands. This second, 
"new" courthouse has since been replaced with new facilities as well as 
a park. The Old Court House has been a favored political campaign stop. 
On September 17, 1859, future president Abraham Lincoln delivered an address 
on the building's steps. Eight other presidents have visited the courthouse, 
either as presidents or during presidential campaigns. They include Andrew 
Johnson, James Garfield, John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson, Richard Nixon, 
Gerald Ford, Ronald Reagan, and Bill Clinton.[88] In 2009, the CareSource 
Management Group finished construction of a $55 million corporate headquarters 
in downtown Dayton. The 300,000-square-foot (28,000 m2), 10-story building 
marks downtown's first new office tower in more than a decade.[89] The 
Dayton skyline's two tallest buildings are the Kettering Tower at 408 ft 
(124 m) and the KeyBank Tower at 385 ft (117 m).[90] Kettering Tower was 
originally Winters Tower, the headquarters of Winters Bank. The building 
was renamed after Virginia Kettering when Winters was merged into BankOne. 
KeyBank Tower was known as the MeadWestvaco Tower before KeyBank gained 
naming rights to the building in 2008.[91] Ted Rall said over the last 
five decades Dayton has been demolishing some of its architecturally significant 
buildings to reduce the city's rental vacancy rate and thus increase the 
occupancy rate.[92] Dayton's ten historic neighborhoods — Oregon District, 
Wright Dunbar, Dayton View, Grafton Hill, McPherson Town, Webster Station, 
Huffman, Kenilworth, St. Anne's Hill, and South Park — feature mostly single-family 
houses and mansions in the Neoclassical, Jacobethan, Tudor Revival, English 
Gothic, Chateauesque, Craftsman, Queen Anne, Georgian Revival, Colonial 
Revival, Renaissance Revival Architecture, Shingle Style Architecture, 
Prairie, Mission Revival, Eastlake/Italianate, American Foursquare, and 
Federal styles of architecture.[93] Downtown Dayton is also a large area 
that encompasses several neighborhoods itself, and has seen a recent uplift 
and revival. Dayton's suburbs with a population of 10,000 or more include 
Beavercreek, Centerville, Clayton, Englewood, Fairborn, Harrison Township, 
Huber Heights, Kettering, Miami Township, Miamisburg, Oakwood, Riverside, 
Springboro (partial), Trotwood, Vandalia, Washington Township, West Carrollton, 
and Xenia. The Dayton Region ranked within the top 10% in the nation out 
of 373 metropolitan areas in arts and culture.[94] In 2012, Dayton ranked 
No. 2 in the country as an arts destination ranking higher than larger 
cities such as Atlanta, St. Louis, and Cincinnati.[95] Dayton is the home 
of the Dayton Art Institute (see below). The Benjamin and Marian Schuster 
Performing Arts Center in downtown Dayton is a world-class performing arts 
center and the home venue of the Dayton Philharmonic Orchestra, Dayton 
Opera, and the Dayton Ballet.[96] In addition to Philharmonic and Opera 
performances, the Schuster Center hosts concerts, lectures, and traveling 
Broadway shows, and is a popular spot for weddings and other events.[97] 
The historic Victoria Theatre, located in downtown Dayton, hosts concerts, 
traveling Broadway shows, ballet, a summertime classic film series, and 
more. The Loft Theatre, also located downtown, is the home of the Human 
Race Theatre Company.[98] The Dayton Playhouse, in West Dayton, is the 
site of numerous plays and theatrical productions.[99] Between 1957 and 
1995, the Kenley Players presented live theater productions in Dayton.[100][101] 
In 2013, John Kenley was inducted into the Dayton Theatre Hall of Fame.[102] 
Dayton is the home to several ballet companies including: The city's fine 
dining restaurants include The Pine Club, a nationally-known steakhouse.[105][106][107][108] 
Dayton is home to a variety of pizza chains that have become woven into 
local culture, the most notable of which are Cassano's, Marion's Piazza, 
and Flying Pizza.[109] Notable Dayton-based restaurant chains include Hot 
Head Burritos, Super Subby's, Submarine House, and Fricker's.[110][111][112][113] 
In addition to restaurants, the city is also home to Esther Price Candies, 
a candy and chocolate company, and Mike-sells, the oldest potato chip company 
in the United States.[114] Many major religions are represented in Dayton. 
Christianity is represented in Dayton by dozens of denominations and their 
respective churches.[115] Notable Dayton churches include the First Lutheran 
Church, Sacred Heart Church, and Ginghamsburg Church. Dayton's Muslim community 
is largely represented by the Islamic Society of Greater Dayton (ISGD), 
a Muslim community that includes a mosque on Josie Street. Dayton is also 
home to the United Theological Seminary, one of 13 seminaries affiliated 
with the United Methodist Church. Judaism is represented by Temple Israel. 
Hinduism is represented by the Hindu Temple of Dayton.[116] Tourists visiting 
Montgomery County accounted for $1.7 billion in business activity in 2007. 
Tourism also accounts for 1 out of every 14 private sector jobs in the 
county. Tourism in the Dayton region is led by The National Museum of the 
United States Air Force at nearby Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. It is 
the largest and oldest military aviation museum in the world.[117] The 
museum draws over 1.3 million visitors per year and is one of the single 
most visited tourist attractions in Ohio.[118][119] The museum houses the 
National Aviation Hall of Fame. Other museums also play significant roles 
in the tourism and economy of the Dayton area. The Dayton Art Institute, 
a museum of fine arts, owns collections containing more than 20,000 objects 
spanning 5,000 years of art and archaeological history.[120] The Dayton 
Art Institute was rated one of the top 10 best art museums in the United 
States for children.[121] The Boonshoft Museum of Discovery is a local 
children's museum of science with numerous exhibits, one of which includes 
an indoor zoo with nearly 100 different animals.[122] There are also some 
notable historical museums in the region. The Dayton Aviation Heritage 
National Historical Park, operated by the National Park Service, commemorates 
the lives and achievements of Dayton natives Orville and Wilbur Wright 
and Paul Laurence Dunbar. The Wright brothers' famous Wright Flyer III 
aircraft is housed in a museum at Carillon Historical Park. Dayton is also 
home to America's Packard Museum, which contains many restored historical 
Packard vehicles.[123] SunWatch Indian Village/Archaeological Park, a partially 
reconstructed 12th-century prehistoric American Indian village, is located 
on the south end of Dayton; it is organized around a central plaza dominated 
by wood posts forming an astronomical calendar. The park includes a museum 
where visitors can learn about the Indian history of the Miami Valley.[124] 
The Vectren Dayton Air Show is an annual air show that takes place at the 
Dayton International Airport. The Vectren Dayton Airshow is one of the 
largest air shows in the United States.[125] The Dayton area is served 
by Five Rivers MetroParks, encompassing 14,161 acres (5,731 ha) over 23 
facilities for year-round recreation, education, and conservation.[126] 
In cooperation with the Miami Conservancy District, the MetroParks maintains 
over 70 mi (113 km) miles of paved, multi-use scenic trails that connect 
Montgomery County with Greene, Miami, Warren, and Butler Counties.[127][128] 
From 1996 to 1998, Dayton hosted the National Folk Festival. Since then, 
the annual Cityfolk Festival has continued to bring the best in folk, ethnic, 
and world music and arts to Dayton. The Five Rivers MetroParks also owns 
and operates the PNC Second Street Market located near downtown Dayton. 
The Market has more than 50 vendors selling items such as produce, cooked 
foods, baked goods, crafts, and flowers.[129] The Dayton area hosts several 
arenas and venues. South of Dayton in Kettering is the Fraze Pavilion, 
which hosts many nationally and internationally known musicians for concerts. 
Several notable performances have included the Backstreet Boys, Boston, 
and Steve Miller Band.[130] South of downtown, on the banks of the Great 
Miami River, is the University of Dayton Arena, home venue for the University 
of Dayton Flyers basketball teams and the location of various other events 
and concerts.[131] UD Arena also hosts the Winter Guard International championships, 
at which hundreds of percussion and color guard ensembles compete from 
around the world.[132] North of Dayton is the Hara Arena that frequently 
hosts expo events and concerts. In addition, the Dayton Amateur Radio Association 
hosts the annual Dayton Hamvention, North America's largest hamfest, at 
Hara Arena. Up to 25,000 amateur radio operators attend this convention. 
The Nutter Center, which is just east of Dayton in the suburb of Fairborn, 
is the home arena for athletics of Wright State University and the former 
Dayton Bombers hockey team. This venue is used for many concerts, community 
events, and various national traveling shows and performances.[133] The 
Oregon District is a historic residential and commercial district in southeast 
downtown Dayton. The district is populated with art galleries, specialty 
shops, pubs, nightclubs, and coffee houses.[134] The City of Dayton is 
also host to yearly festivals. Most notably the Dayton Celtic Festival 
and the City Folk Festival. The Dayton Celtic Festival attracts more than 
30,000 people yearly and has Irish dancing, food, crafts, and performers 
such as Gaelic Storm.[135] Other festivals held in the city of Dayton include 
the Dayton Blues Festival, Dayton Music Fest, Urban Nights, Women in Jazz, 
the African American and Cultural Festival, and the Dayton Reggae Fest.[136][137][138][139] 
The Dayton area is home to several minor league and semi pro teams, as 
well as NCAA Division I sports programs. The Dayton Dragons professional 
baseball team is the minor league affiliate for the Cincinnati Reds. The 
Dayton Dragons are the first (and only) team in minor league baseball history 
to sell out an entire season before it began and was voted as one of the 
top 10 hottest tickets to get in all of professional sports by Sports Illustrated.[140] 
The Dayton Dragons 815 consecutive sellouts surpassed the NBA's Portland 
Trail Blazers for the longest sellout streak across all professional sports 
in the U.S.[40][141] The Gem City Rollergirls flat track roller derby league 
is the first (and only) WFTDA league in Dayton, Ohio. The team was established 
in 2006, and began a rapid climb in the national ranks in 2015. At present, 
the league hosts double-header bouts at Hara Arena, playing their A-Team 
(The Purple Reign) and their B-Team (The Violet Femmes) against visiting 
teams. The league is skater-owned and skater-run. The University of Dayton 
and Wright State University both host NCAA basketball. The University of 
Dayton Arena has hosted more games in the NCAA men's basketball tournament 
over its history than any other venue.[142] UD Arena is also the site of 
the First Round games of the NCAA Tournament. In 2012, eight teams competed 
for the final four spots in the NCAA Basketball Tournament. Wright State 
University's NCAA men's basketball is the Wright State Raiders and the 
University of Dayton's NCAA men's basketball team is the Dayton Flyers. 
The Dayton Gems was a minor league ice hockey team in the International 
Hockey League from 1964 to 1977, 1979–1980, and most recently 2009 to 2012. 
The Dayton Bombers were an ECHL ice hockey team that most recently played 
the North Division of the ECHL's American Conference. In June 2009, it 
was announced the Bombers would turn in their membership back to the league.[143] 
However, hockey remained in Dayton as the Dayton Gems of the International 
Hockey League we reformed in the fall of 2009 at Hara Arena.[144] The Gems 
folded after the 2011–12 season. Shortly after the Gems folded, it was 
announced a new team, the Dayton Demonz, would begin play in 2012 in the 
Federal Hockey League (FHL). The Demonz folded in 2015 would be immediately 
replaced by the Dayton Demolition, also in the FHL. However, the Demolition 
would cease operations after only one season[145] when Hara Arena decided 
to close due to financial difficulties.[146] Dayton hosted the first American 
Professional Football Association game (precursor to the NFL). The game 
was played at Triangle Park between the Dayton Triangles and the Columbus 
Panhandles on October 3, 1920, and is considered one of the first professional 
football games ever played.[147] Football teams in the Dayton area include 
the Dayton Flyers and the Dayton Sharks. The Dayton region is also known 
for the many golf courses and clubs that it hosts. The Miami Valley Golf 
Club, Moraine Country Club, NCR Country Club, and the Pipestone Golf Course 
are some of the more notable courses. In addition, several PGA Championships 
have been held at area golf courses. The Miami Valley Golf Club hosted 
the 1957 PGA Championship, the Moraine Country Club hosted the 1945 PGA 
Championship, and the NCR Country club hosted the 1969 PGA Championship.Additionally, 
NCR CC hosted the 1986 U.S. Women's Open and the 2005 U.S. Senior Open. 
Other notable courses include the Yankee Trace Golf Club, the Beavercreek 
Golf Club, Dayton Meadowbrook Country Club, Sycamore Creek Country Club, 
Heatherwoode Golf Club, Community Golf Course, and Kitty Hawk Golf Course.[148] 
The city of Dayton is the home to the Dayton Area Rugby Club. As of 2010, 
the club fields three squads and play their home games at Eastwood Metropark.[149] 
Dayton is served in print by The Dayton Daily News, the city's sole remaining 
daily newspaper. The Dayton Daily News is owned by Cox Enterprises. The 
Dayton region's main business newspaper is the Dayton Business Journal. 
Nielsen Media Research ranked the 11-county Dayton television market as 
the No. 62 market in the United States.[150] The market is served by stations 
affiliated with major American networks including: WKEF, Channel 22 – ABC, 
operated by Sinclair Broadcasting, WHIO-TV, Channel 7 – CBS, operated by 
Cox Media Group, WPTD, Channel 16 – PBS, operated by ThinkTV, which also 
operates WPTO, assigned to Oxford, WDTN, Channel 2 – NBC, operated by Media 
General, WBDT, Channel 26 – The CW, operated by Acme Television, and WRGT-TV, 
Channel 45 – Fox/My Network TV, operated under a local marketing agreement 
by Sinclair Broadcasting. The nationally syndicated morning talk show The 
Daily Buzz originated from WBDT-TV, the Acme property in Miamisburg, before 
moving to its current home in Florida. Dayton is also served by 42 AM and 
FM radio stations directly, and numerous other stations are heard from 
elsewhere in Southwest Ohio, which serve outlying suburbs and adjoining 
counties.[151] The Greater Dayton Regional Transit Authority (RTA) operates 
public bus routes in the Dayton metro area. In addition to routes covered 
by traditional diesel-powered buses, RTA has a number of electric trolley 
bus routes. The Dayton trolleybus system is the second longest-running 
of the six remaining trolleybus systems in the U.S., having entered service 
in 1933.[152] It is the present manifestation of an electric transit service 
that has operated continuously in Dayton since 1888. Dayton operates a 
Greyhound Station which provides inter-city bus transportation to and from 
Dayton. The hub is in the Greater Dayton Regional Transit Authority North-West 
hub in Trotwood.[153] Air transportation is available just north of Dayton 
proper, via Dayton International Airport in Vandalia, OH. The airport operates 
24 hours a day, seven days a week, and offers service to 21 markets through 
10 airlines. In 2008, it served 2.9 million passengers. The Dayton International 
Airport is also a significant regional air freight hub hosting FedEx Express, 
UPS Airlines, United States Postal Service, and major commercial freight 
carriers.[154] The Dayton area also has several regional airports. The 
Dayton-Wright Brothers Airport is a general aviation airport owned by the 
City of Dayton located 10 miles (16 km) south of the central business district 
of Dayton on Springboro Pike in Miami Township. It serves as the reliever 
airport for Dayton International Airport. The airport primarily serves 
corporate and personal aircraft users.[155] The Dahio Trotwood Airport, 
also known as Dayton-New Lebanon Airport, is a privately owned, public-use 
airport located 7 miles (11 km) west of the central business district of 
Dayton.[156] The Moraine Airpark is a privately owned, public-use airport 
situated 4 miles (6.4 km) southwest of the city of Dayton.[157] The Dayton 
region is primarily served by three interstates: Other major routes for 
the region include: The Ohio Department of Transportation is currently 
in the process of $533 million of construction to modify and reconstruct 
I-75 through downtown Dayton. ODOT is upgrading and widening I-75 from 
Edwin C Moses Blvd. to Stanley Avenue.[159] Dayton hosts several inter-modal 
freight railroad terminals. Two Class I railroads both CSX and Norfolk 
Southern Railway, operate switching yards in the city.[160] In cooperation 
with the Miami Conservancy District, Five Rivers MetroParks maintains over 
70 mi (113 km) miles of paved scenic trails for cycling and other activities.[127][128] 
In 2010, the city of Troy was named "bike friendly" by the League of American 
Bicyclists, who gave the city the organization's bronze designation.[162] 
The honorable mention made Dayton one of only two cities in Ohio to receive 
the award, the other being Columbus, and one of only 15 cities nationwide.[162] 
The Dayton Public Schools operates 34 schools that serve 16,855 students,[163] 
including: The city of Dayton has 35 private schools located within the 
city,[164] including: Dayton has 33 charter schools.[165] Three of the 
top five charter schools named in 2011 are K-8 schools managed by National 
Heritage Academies.[166] The Dayton area was ranked tenth for higher education 
among metropolitan areas in the United States by Forbes in 2009.[167] The 
city is home to two major universities. The University of Dayton is a private, 
Catholic institution founded in 1850 by the Marianist order, which has 
the only American Bar Association (ABA)-approved law school in the Dayton 
area.[168] The University of Dayton is Ohio's largest private university 
and is also home to the University of Dayton Research Institute, which 
ranks third in the nation for sponsored materials research,[169] and the 
Center for Tissue Regeneration and Engineering at Dayton, which focuses 
on human tissue regeneration.[170] The public Wright State University became 
a state university in 1967. Wright State University established the National 
Center for Medical Readiness, a national training program for disaster 
preparedness and relief. Wright State's Boonshoft School of Medicine is 
the Dayton area's only medical school and is a leader in biomedical research.[171] 
Dayton is also home to Sinclair Community College, the largest community 
college at a single location in Ohio[172] and one of the nation's largest 
community colleges.[173] Sinclair is acclaimed as one of the country's 
best community colleges.[174] Sinclair was founded as the YMCA college 
in 1887. Dayton is also home to Miami-Jacobs College, the International 
School of Broadcasting, and the Dayton School of Medical Massage. Other 
schools just outside Dayton that shape the educational landscape are Antioch 
College and Antioch University, both in Yellow Springs, Kettering College 
of Medical Arts and School of Advertising Art in Kettering, DeVry University 
in Beavercreek, and Clark State Community College in Springfield. The Air 
Force Institute of Technology, which was founded in 1919 and serves as 
a graduate school for the United States Air Force, is at the nearby Wright-Patterson 
Air Force Base. Dayton consistently has had one of the highest crime rates 
among US cities.[175][176] Dayton has experienced an improving public safety 
environment since 2003, with crime declining in key categories according 
to FBI Uniform Crime Reports and Dayton Police Department data.[177] In 
2009, crime continued to fall in the city of Dayton. Crime in the categories 
of forcible rape, aggravated assault, property crime, motor vehicle theft, 
robbery, burglary, theft and arson all showed declines for 2009. Overall, 
crime in Dayton dropped 40 percent over the previous year.[178] Also notable, 
John Dillinger a famous bank robber during the early 1930s, was at one 
time captured and arrested by Dayton city police while visiting his girlfriend 
at a high-class boarding house in downtown Dayton.[179][180] Dayton has 
