Dead ball is a term in many ball sports in which the ball is deemed temporarily 
not playable, and no movement may be made with it or the players from their 
respective positions of significance. Depending on the sport, this event 
may be quite routine, and often occurs between individual plays of the 
game. In gridiron football, a dead ball is a condition that occurs between 
football plays, after the player with the ball has run out of bounds or 
after the ball is downed either by the possessing player being tackled 
to the ground or an incomplete pass hitting the ground, and before the 
ball is snapped to begin the next play. During the time in which a ball 
is dead, a team may not attempt to advance it and no change of possession 
can take place. The clock may or may not be stopped during this time, depending 
on the circumstances. In baseball, when the ball is dead, no runners may 
advance beyond the respective bases they are entitled to, and no runners 
may be put out. The ball becomes dead when:[1] In general, the ball does 
not automatically become dead after playing action ends. After a dead ball, 
the ball becomes alive again when the pitcher stands on the pitcher's plate 
ready to pitch, the batter, catcher and umpire are ready, and the umpire 
calls or signals "Play." Players and coaches may ask an umpire for "time," 
but they themselves may not call "time" and cause the ball to become dead. 
Nevertheless, "time" is usually granted by the umpire when asked, and thus, 
colloquially, it is often said that players or coaches indeed can "call 
time." Unlike sports which have clocks to time the play, the phrase "time 
out" is not used in baseball. Likewise, there is no limit to the number 
of times a team can "call time." In cricket, a dead ball is a particular 
state of play in which the players may not perform any of the active aspects 
of the game.[2] In other words, batsmen may not score runs and fielders 
may not attempt to get batsmen out. The ball, referring to the cricket 
ball, becomes live when the bowler begins his run up in preparation to 
bowling at the batsman. In the live state, play occurs with the batsmen 
able to score runs and get out. The ball then becomes dead when any of 
the following situations occur: Umpires may also call dead ball at their 
discretion, in the case of a series for events for which there is no provision 
in either the Laws of Cricket or agreements made prior to the match. This 
happened on 9 October 2005, when Australian batsman Michael Hussey hit 
the retracted roof at the Telstra Dome. What would have been six in an 
open stadium was ruled a dead ball, and no runs were awarded. Note that 
the ball becomes dead as soon as a batsman is out, so it is not possible 
to dismiss the other batsman immediately. Thus the baseball concept of 
a double play cannot occur in cricket. If necessary to make it clear to 
the players that the umpire considers the ball to be dead, the umpire signals 
dead ball by crossing and uncrossing his arms in front of his body. In 
association football (soccer), the term "dead ball" refers to a situation 
when the ball is not in play, e.g. when play has not been restarted after 
the ball has gone out of bounds or a foul has been committed. It also applies 
before each kick-off, either at the start of each half or after a goal 
has been scored. In a dead ball situation, players can position the ball 
with their hands prior to restarting play. Furthermore, even though the 
ball is not in play, the referee may still issue cautions or ejections 
(yellow or red cards) for any incident that occurs off the ball. Fouls, 
on the other hand, can occur only while the ball is in play. In basketball, 
most or any time play is stopped the ball is considered dead, such as when 
a foul has been committed and called by a referee, a foul shot has been 
attempted and another one is yet to be attempted, or the ball has gone 
out of bounds. Player substitutions may then be made. See section IV of 
the NBA rule book,[3] See also[4] or.[5] Times when it can be a dead ball: 
See more information in flag football Each end of a rugby league field 
has a dead ball line, when the ball (or player in possession) crosses or 
touches this line, the ball is said to have gone dead. This results in 
a goal line drop out if the defending team had caused the ball to go dead, 
