In sabermetrics, the defensive spectrum is the graphical representation 
of the positions on a baseball field, arranged from left (the easiest defensive 
positions) to right (the hardest). The defensive spectrum is: Designated 
hitter – First baseman – Left fielder – Right fielder – Third baseman – 
Center fielder – Second baseman – Shortstop – Catcher – Pitcher In some 
versions of the defensive spectrum, pitcher and catcher are not included, 
since certain defensive demands of those positions are so specialized as 
to be inapplicable to players at other positions. The designated hitter 
is sometimes omitted since he is technically not part of the "defense" 
at all. As an example of the concept in action, players who are drafted 
by Major League Baseball teams as shortstops are far more likely to ultimately 
end up at a different position than players who are drafted as first basemen. 
Like many original sabermetric concepts, the idea of a defensive spectrum 
was first introduced by Bill James in his Baseball Abstract series of books 
during the 1980s. The basic premise of the spectrum is that positions on 
the right side of the spectrum are more difficult than the positions on 
the left side. Therefore, the positions are easier to fill as one goes 
left on the spectrum, since the physical demands are less. A corollary 
to this is that, since defensive skill is at less of a premium on the left 
side, players at those positions must provide more offense than those on 
the right. Another corollary is that players can generally move from right 
to left along the spectrum successfully during their careers, but moving 
a player from left to right is quite risky. A retrospective analysis of 
the 130-year history of baseball shows that the defensive spectrum shifted 
once. In the late 19th century and early 20th century, third base was generally 
considered to be more challenging than second base. This was because the 
double play was relatively uncommon in this period; thus, the third baseman, 
who had to field hard hit grounders and throw the ball 120 feet to first 
base, had a far more challenging job than the second baseman, who threw 
the ball 70 feet at most. Frequent bunting also meant that the third baseman 
would be more often challenged defensively. As a result, there were far 
more good hitters at second base than third (great-hitting early second 
basemen include Nap Lajoie and Rogers Hornsby), and the defensive spectrum 
was: First baseman – Left fielder – Right fielder – Second baseman – Center 
fielder – Third baseman – Shortstop – Catcher – Pitcher However, by the 
1920s and 1930s, the defensive spectrum was beginning to shift. Double 
plays were becoming steadily more common, increasing the defensive responsibilities 
of second base. Offense was therefore increasingly important at third base. 
One of the first new third basemen was Harlond Clift of the St. Louis Browns, 
who was notable as the first third baseman to hit 30 home runs. By 1945, 
second base was firmly established as a more defensively important position 
