In many team sports, defence or defense is the action of preventing an 
opponent from scoring. The term may also refer to the tactics involved 
in defense, or a sub-team whose primary responsibility is defense. Similarly, 
a defense player or defender is a player who is generally charged with 
preventing the other team's forwards from being able to bear down directly 
on their own team's goalkeeper or goaltender. Such intentions exist in 
association football, ice hockey, water polo and many other sports. In 
ice hockey, there are normally two defencemen on the ice. One is usually 
a more offensive player better known for their ability to glean assists 
or goals rather than for their strong defensive play. Such players are 
known as offensive defencemen. The other is usually in a more defensive 
role and rarely show-up on the score sheet but are important for their 
defensive prowess; these players are known as stay-at-home defence. In 
water polo, if an offensive player, such as the center forward, has the 
ball in front of the goal, and the defender cannot steal the ball, he may 
intentionally commit a foul. The forward then has a free throw but must 
pass the ball off to another offensive player, rather than making a shot 
at the goal. Defensive perimeter players may also intentionally cause a 
foul and then move toward the goal, away from their attacker, who must 
take a free throw. This technique, called 'sloughing', allows the defense 
an opportunity to double-team the center forward and possibly steal the 
inbound pass. The water polo referee may refrain from declaring a foul 
caused by a defensive player, if in his judgment this would give the advantage 
to the defending team. This is known as the Advantage Rule. Baseball is 
unlike most other competitive sports in that the defense is given control 
of the ball. Additionally, the number of players on the field at any given 
time is lopsided in favor of the defense which always has nine players 
on the field; the offense has between one and four. Historically, each 
player on the team had a role both on offense and defense. Most amateur 
and professional leagues have adopted the designated hitter (DH) rule introduced 
by the American League of Major League Baseball. In leagues that use the 
DH, pitchers usually do not bat, and the DH bats in lieu of the pitcher 
and does not play a defensive position. The main leagues that have not 
adopted the DH rule are the National League of MLB and the Central League 
of Nippon Professional Baseball. Each play starts with the ball in the 
hands of the pitcher, whose job as a member of the defense is to use his 
skills to somehow prevent the batter from reaching base. The pitcher throws 
the ball toward the catcher, who must catch the pitched ball if it is not 
hit by the batter. In each half-inning, the defense attempts to force three 
outs. There are three basic ways in which an out can occur: 1.) If three 
strikes are recorded against the batter, 2.) if a ball hit by a batter 
is caught by a defensive player before it hits the ground, or 3.) if a 
runner who is between bases or has not reached a base to which he is forced 
is put out by a defensive player in possession of the ball. If the batter 
manages to hit the ball, all nine defensive players become active and use 
the ball in attempting to prevent the batter from reaching base and runners 
already on base from advancing or scoring. while the offense is busy attempting 
to move runners around the baseball diamond toward home plate, the defense 
uses the ball in various ways to achieve outs. If the defense forces three 
outs, their team is moved into the offensive role. The exception is if 
it is the ninth or an extra inning and they are ahead, in which case, the 
