Deion Luywnn Sanders Sr. (/ˈdiːɒn/; born August 9, 1967) is a former American 
football and baseball player who works as an analyst for CBS Sports and 
the NFL Network. He was inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 
2011. Sanders played football primarily at cornerback, but also as a kick 
returner, punt returner and occasionally wide receiver. He played in the 
National Football League (NFL) for the Atlanta Falcons, the San Francisco 
49ers, the Dallas Cowboys, the Washington Redskins and the Baltimore Ravens, 
winning the Super Bowl with both the 49ers and the Cowboys. An outfielder 
in baseball, he played professionally for the New York Yankees, the Atlanta 
Braves, the Cincinnati Reds and the San Francisco Giants, and participated 
in the 1992 World Series with the Braves. He attended Florida State University, 
where he was recognized as a two-time All-American in football, and also 
played baseball and track. Sanders is also the only man to play in both 
a Super Bowl and a World Series.[1] Sanders founded the Prime Prep Academy 
charter school in 2012 and has coached at the school. In 2014 he debuted 
his new show, the Deion Family Playbook.[2] Sanders was born in Fort Myers, 
Florida. He attended North Fort Myers High School in North Fort Myers, 
Florida, and was a letterman and credited All-State in football, basketball, 
and baseball. He was an All-State honoree in all three sports. In 1985, 
Sanders was named to the Florida High School Association All-Century Team 
which selected the Top 33 players in the 100-year history of high school 
football in the state of Florida. The Kansas City Royals selected Sanders 
out of North Fort Myers High School in the sixth round of the 1985 Major 
League Baseball draft. He did not sign with the Royals.[3] Sanders enrolled 
at Florida State University and played three sports for the Florida State 
Seminoles: football, baseball, and track. Beginning his freshman year, 
he started in the Seminoles' secondary, played outfield for the baseball 
team that finished fifth in the nation, and helped lead the track and field 
team to a conference championship. At Florida State University, under head 
coach Bobby Bowden, Sanders was a two-time consensus All-American cornerback 
in 1987 and 1988, and a third team All-American in 1986, intercepting 14 
passes in his career, including three in bowl games, and managed to return 
one interception 100 yards for a touchdown breaking Fred Biletnikoff's 
interception return record by one yard. He won the Jim Thorpe Award in 
1988. He was also a standout punt returner for Florida State, leading the 
nation in 1988 with his punt return average, and breaking the school's 
record for career punt return yards. Sanders made an interception with 
5 seconds left to seal Florida State's 13-7 win over Auburn in the 1989 
Sugar Bowl, during the 1988 postseason. Based on those accolades, his jersey 
at Florida State, #2, was retired in 1995. He finished his career with 
126 PR for 1,429 yards.[4] Sanders played in the 1989 Sugar Bowl despite 
having not attended classes or taken final exams during the fall 1988 semester 
at Florida State. Consequently, Florida passed a law known as the "Deion 
Sanders rule" that would prohibit football players at state universities 
from playing in postseason games if they did not successfully complete 
the previous semester.[5] While playing baseball under head coach Mike 
Martin at Florida State, Sanders hit .331 in 1986; he was known more for 
base stealing, compiling 27 stolen bases in 1987.[citation needed] Sanders 
once played the first game of a baseball doubleheader, ran a leg of a 4 
× 100 relay, then returned to play another baseball game.[citation needed] 
Sanders played a nine-year, part-time baseball career, playing left and 
center field in 641 games with 4 teams. He was originally drafted by the 
Kansas City Royals in the 6th round of the 1985 draft, but did not sign 
with them. The New York Yankees selected Sanders in the 30th round of the 
1988 Major League Baseball draft, and he signed with the team on June 22.[citation 
needed] He opened the 1989 season with the Albany-Colonie Yankees of the 
Class AA Eastern League.[6] Though he planned to leave the Yankees in July 
to attend NFL training camp,[7] he became embroiled in a contract dispute 
with the Falcons, and used the Yankees as leverage. He received a promotion 
to the major leagues, and spent the summer with the Columbus Clippers of 
the Class AAA International League.[8] He made his major league baseball 
debut on August 31, 1989.[9] Sanders made the Yankees' Opening Day roster 
for the 1990 season.[10] On May 22, 1990, Sanders became involved in a 
dispute with Chicago White Sox' catcher Carlton Fisk. Sanders started by 
stepping up to the plate with one out and a runner on third, drawing a 
dollar sign in the dirt before the pitch and then failed to run to first 
base after hitting a routine pop fly to shortstop, trotting back to the 
dugout instead. The Yankee fans booed, and Fisk told Sanders to "run the 
fucking ball out" and called Sanders a "piece of shit." Later in the game, 
Sanders told Fisk that "the days of slavery are over." Fisk was furious. 
"He comes up and wants to make it a racial issue, there's no racial issue 
involved. There is a right way and a wrong way to play this game."[11][12][13] 
By mid-July, Sanders expressed that he was unsure if he would remain with 
the Yankees or report to NFL training camp for the upcoming NFL season.[14] 
He requested a $1 million salary for the 1991 season, and the Yankees ended 
negotiations on a contract extension with Sanders. He left the team, finishing 
the 1990 season with a .158 batting average and three home runs in 57 games.[15] 
In September 1990, the Yankees placed Sanders on waivers with the intention 
of giving him his release, as Yankees' general manager Gene Michael said 
that Sanders' football career was stunting his baseball development.[16] 
Sanders later signed with the Atlanta Braves for the 1991 MLB season. On 
July 31, Sanders hit a key three-run homer to spark a comeback win against 
the Pittsburgh Pirates during the Braves' run to the National League West 
Division title. However, he had to leave the Braves the very next day to 
report to the Atlanta Falcons because of a clause in his NFL contract and 
missed the postseason. Before the 1992 season, Sanders reworked his NFL 
deal whereby he still reported to the Falcons for training camp in August, 
but was allowed to rejoin the Braves for the postseason. During his most 
productive year in the majors, the 1992 season, he hit .304 for the team, 
stole 26 bases, and led the NL with 14 triples in 97 games. During the 
1989 season, he hit a major league home run and scored a touchdown in the 
NFL in the same week, the only player ever to do so. Sanders is also the 
only man to play in both a Super Bowl and a World Series.[1] In four games 
of the 1992 World Series, Sanders batted .533 with 4 runs, 8 hits, 2 doubles, 
and 1 RBI while playing with a broken bone in his foot. Despite Sanders's 
performance, the Braves ultimately lost to the Toronto Blue Jays in six 
games. In Game 3, he narrowly avoided being a victim of what would have 
been only the second triple play in World Series history (following Bill 
Wambsganss's unassisted triple play in 1920). With Sanders on second base 
and Terry Pendleton on first, David Justice hit a deep fly ball to center 
field that Blue Jays center fielder Devon White unexpectedly caught with 
a leaping effort. Pendleton passed Sanders on the bases for the second 
out, but umpire Bob Davidson called Sanders safe after he scampered back 
to second base. Replays showed that Toronto third baseman Kelly Gruber 
tagged him on the heel before he returned to second.[17] In 1997, Sanders 
finished 2nd in the NL with 56 stolen bases in 115 games while with the 
Cincinnati Reds before leaving baseball for three years. Sanders returned 
to the Reds in 2001, but was released after playing in only 29 games and 
batting just .173. Following his release from the Reds he signed a minor 
league contract with the Toronto Blue Jays triple-A affiliate, Syracuse 
Chiefs. Sanders was hitting .252 for Syracuse before the Washington Redskins 
found a loophole in his contract which compelled him to return to the Redskins. 
His football contract had been negotiated to allow for Sanders to play 
both baseball and football, but the terms of the contract stated that Sanders 
could miss NFL training camp and the first few games of the season only 
if he were playing Major League Baseball. Since he was not then on an MLB 
roster, Sanders had to leave Syracuse and return to the Redskins so he 
would not violate his NFL contract. But before arriving at training camp, 
Sanders informed Redskins personnel he was retiring from professional baseball. 
In his final professional baseball game, Sanders hit a solo home run and 
an RBI single in Syracuse's 12-6 win over the Toledo Mud Hens.[18] As those 
in MLB and the NFL urged Sanders to concentrate on only one sport, he would 
often explain, "football is my wife and baseball is my mistress."[19] Sanders' 
professional football career started the same year as his baseball career, 
1989. At the 1989 NFL Scouting Combine, Sanders ran a 4.27 second 40-yard 
dash, which was considered to be the second fastest in Combine history 
behind Bo Jackson of Auburn in 1986.[20] He was the fifth pick overall 
in the 1989 NFL Draft by the Atlanta Falcons,[21] where he played until 
1993. Despite fumbling (and recovering) his first NFL punt (which was re-kicked 
on a penalty), Sanders ran for a touchdown on his second attempt of his 
first game. During his time in Atlanta, he intercepted 24 passes (including 
a career high 7 in 1993), three of which he returned for touchdowns. In 
1992, he also led the league in kickoff return yards (1,067), yards per 
return (26.7) and return touchdowns (2). On October 11, 1992, Sanders played 
in a Falcons game at Miami and then flew to Pittsburgh, hoping to play 
in the Braves' League Championship Series game against the Pirates that 
evening and become the first athlete to play in two professional leagues 
in the same day.[1] Sanders ultimately did not, however, appear in the 
baseball game that night.[1][22] Over his five years with the Falcons, 
Sanders found his way to the end zone ten times (three defensive, three 
kick returns, two punt returns, and two receptions). After five seasons 
Sanders signed on to play one season with the San Francisco 49ers, where 
he had arguably his best season as a professional football player, recording 
six interceptions and returning them for an NFL best and a then-NFL record 
303 yards and three touchdowns. Two of his interceptions were returned 
for a gain of at least 90 yards, making him the first player to do this 
in NFL history. On October 16, 1994, Sanders made his dramatic return to 
the Georgia Dome in a 49er uniform. After getting into a scuffle with his 
former Falcon teammate Andre Rison, Sanders intercepted a pass from quarterback 
Jeff George and returned it 93 yards while mockingly staring down the entire 
Falcons sideline before high-stepping into the end zone. Sanders was later 
voted the 1994 NFL Defensive Player of the Year and recorded an interception 
in the 49ers 49–26 victory over the San Diego Chargers in Super Bowl XXIX, 
earning him his first championship ring. Following his successful season 
with the 49ers, Sanders, along with his agent Eugene Parker, courted numerous 
teams in need of an All-Pro cornerback. The several teams in the "Deion 
Sweepstakes", as it was called by the media, were the Philadelphia Eagles, 
Oakland Raiders, Miami Dolphins, New Orleans Saints, San Francisco 49ers 
and the Dallas Cowboys, who had lost their starting cornerback Kevin Smith 
to injury for the rest of the season. On September 9, 1995 (which fell 
in Week 2 of that NFL season), Sanders signed a lucrative contract with 
the Dallas Cowboys (seven years, $35 million with a $12.999 million signing 
bonus, because owner Jerry Jones was superstitious of the number 13),[23] 
essentially making him, at the time, the highest-paid defensive player 
in the NFL. Sanders later stated in his book Power, Money & Sex: How Success 
Almost Ruined My Life that the Oakland Raiders offered him more money than 
any other team, but he chose to play in Dallas for more time on the offensive 
side of the ball, a chance to win back-to-back Super Bowls, and because 
of his friendship with Cowboys wide receiver Michael Irvin. Arthroscopic 
surgery kept him sidelined until his debut in Week 9, which was once again 
in Atlanta against the Falcons, though this time Sanders' debut with his 
new team was not as dramatic as it was with the 49ers (the Cowboys won, 
28-13). He went on to help the Cowboys win their third Super Bowl title 
in four years in Super Bowl XXX against the Pittsburgh Steelers, where 
he returned a punt for 11 yards and caught a 47-yard reception on offense, 
setting up Dallas' first touchdown of the game and a 27–17 victory. Sanders 
played four more seasons with Dallas, earning Pro Bowl berths in all of 
them. On June 2, 2000, he was released in a salary cap move.[24] After 
five seasons with the Cowboys, new Washington Redskins owner Daniel Snyder 
pursued Sanders along with other high priced free agents Mark Carrier and 
Bruce Smith. Sanders played one season with the Redskins, having four interceptions 
before retiring in 2001. Late in the 2002 NFL season Sanders contemplated 
a return to the NFL, specifically to the Oakland Raiders. With his rights 
still the property of the Redskins, he lobbied and received his release 
from the team and was waived. The San Diego Chargers claimed Sanders' rights 
and placed him on their Reserve-Retired List. Sanders opted to stay retired. 
During the 2002 season, Sanders was a frequent guest commentator on Monday 
Night Football. On an amusing note, during a Monday Night Football game 
between Dallas and Washington that year, it was mentioned that Sanders, 
who was part of the broadcast team for the game, was still collecting salaries 
from both teams as part of the contracts he had held with each. In 2004, 
Sanders announced that he was going to end his retirement, after being 
lured back to football by Ravens cornerback Corey Fuller, linebacker Ray 
Lewis and best friend Joe Zorovich. A major reason for doing so was to 
play with Ray Lewis. He signed a 1-year deal with the Baltimore Ravens 
to be a nickelback. Sanders chose to wear the number 37, which matched 
his age at the time, to preemptively let people know that he was well aware 
of his relative senior status as an NFL player (additionally, the number 
21, used by Sanders throughout his career, was already being worn by Ravens 
Pro Bowl cornerback Chris McAlister). Against the Buffalo Bills in Week 
7 of 2004, Sanders scored his ninth career interception return touchdown, 
moving him into a tie for second place with Ken Houston and Aeneas Williams, 
and behind Rod Woodson (with 12) for all-time in the statistical category. 
In January 2006, after playing two seasons as a corner and safety for Baltimore 
in which the Ravens did not qualify for the postseason, Sanders once again 
retired from the NFL and became an analyst for the NFL Network. During 
his 14-year NFL career, Sanders was a perennial All-Pro and one of the 
most feared pass defenders to ever play the game.[citation needed] While 
critics[who?] argued that his tackling was poor and he was not much of 
a factor in run support, they could not deny his closing speed.[citation 
needed] Sanders also occasionally lined up with his team's offense. During 
the 1996 season, Sanders skipped the baseball season by concentrating strictly 
on football and attended the first NFL training camp of his career to better 
familiarize himself with the nuances of the wide receiver position. He 
became the second two-way starter (after the Cardinals' Roy Green) in the 
NFL since Chuck Bednarik for the first half of the season due to Michael 
Irvin serving a five-game suspension for violating the NFL's substance 
abuse policy. During his career, Sanders intercepted 53 passes for 1,331 
yards (a 25.1 yards per return average), recovered four fumbles for 15 
yards, returned 155 kickoffs for 3,523 yards, gained 2,199 yards on 212 
punt returns, and caught 60 passes for 784 yards. Sanders amassed 7,838 
all-purpose yards and scored 22 touchdowns: nine interception returns, 
six punt returns, three kickoff returns, three receiving, and one fumble 
recovery. His 19 defensive and return touchdowns was once an NFL record 
(now held by Devin Hester). In the postseason, Sanders added 5 more interceptions, 
as well as 3 receptions for 95 yards, 4 carries for 39 yards, and two touchdowns 
(one rushing and one receiving). He was selected to eight Pro Bowls in 
1991--1994, 1996–1999. He was also awarded the NFL Defensive Player of 
the Year Award in 1994. Sanders also had a rushing TD in the playoffs (against 
the Philadelphia Eagles in January 1996). This makes him (including post 
season) one of only two players in NFL history (Bill Dudley being the other) 
to score a touchdown six different ways (interception return, punt return, 
kickoff return, receiving, rushing, and a fumble recovery). On February 
6, 2011, at Super Bowl XLV in Dallas, Texas, Sanders performed the pre-game 
coin toss. As he had played for the Dallas Cowboys during their most recent 
Super Bowl championship, he received the loudest ovation during the pregame 
ceremonies. Sanders became known for sporting a 'do-rag' or bandana and 
for his high-stepping into the end zone followed by his touchdown dance 
celebrations. His 'Prime Time' nickname was given to him by a friend and 
high-school teammate, Florida Gators defensive back Richard Fain. The two 
played pickup basketball games together during the prime time television 
hour, and Sanders' athletic display during those games earned him the nickname. 
At the end of his Hall of Fame speech, he put a bandana on his bust.[26] 
Following his first Super Bowl victory with the San Francisco 49ers, Sanders 
hosted Saturday Night Live, broadcast on February 18, 1995. In January 
1995, Sanders became the official spokesman of the Sega Sports line of 
video games.[27] Sanders has also appeared in television commercials for 
such companies as Nike, Pepsi, Burger King, Pizza Hut, and American Express. 
These included a Road Runner Pepsi ad, with Sanders as Wile E. Coyote, 
and a Pizza Hut commercial in which he appeared with Dallas Cowboys owner 
Jerry Jones. He also makes a cameo as himself in the film Celtic Pride. 
Sanders, known for his custom-made showy suits and flashy jewelry, frequently 
capitalized on his image. On December 26, 1994, Sanders released Prime 
Time, a rap album on Bust It Records (MC Hammer's label, of whom Sanders 
is a friend) that featured the singles "Must Be the Money" and "Prime Time 
Keeps on Tickin'". The album was universally panned by critics, and despite 
Sanders' fame, neither the album nor its singles charted in the Top 40. 
Sanders also appeared in Hammer's "Too Legit to Quit" music video, and 
his alter-ego "Prime Time" showed up in Hammer's "Pumps and a Bump" video. 
Hammer, a big sports fan, had launched a new enterprise during his career 
called Roll Wit It Entertainment & Sports Management and boasted such clients 
as Evander Holyfield, Deion Sanders and Reggie Brooks.[28] In 1995, Hammer 
released "Straight to My Feet" (with Deion Sanders) from the Street Fighter 
soundtrack (released in December 1994). The song charted #57 in the UK. 
After retiring from the NFL, Sanders worked as a pre-game commentator for 
CBS' The NFL Today until 2004, when contract negotiations failed. Sanders 
turned down a 30% salary increase demanding to be paid $2.5 million, the 
highest of any NFL TV analyst. He was replaced by Shannon Sharpe. During 
Sanders' run, he participated in several sketches. The first was "Primetime 
and 21st", a mock street corner where Sanders (not yet a regular panelist) 
would give his opinions. Another was his "Sanders Claus" persona, one of 
numerous sketches that involved young kids in football jerseys, representing 
NFL players, receiving a sarcastic gift from Sanders. Deion actually debuted 
as "Sanders Claus" in a set of Nike commercials. Sanders still takes presents 
at Christmas time to local children's hospitals in his area dressed as 
"Sanders Claus".[citation needed] Sanders frequently made guest appearances 
on ESPN, especially on the ESPN Radio Dallas affiliate, and briefly hosted 
a show called The New American Sportsman. He also hosted the 2002 Miss 
USA pageant. Sanders also was co-host of the 2004 GMA Music Awards broadcast, 
taped in late April 2004, and slated for air on UPN in May 2004. When negotiations 
with fellow Viacom property CBS failed (see above) two weeks before the 
broadcast, and he signed a deal with ESPN, UPN promptly canceled the broadcast, 
and the show aired on the i Network in December 2004 (both UPN and CBS 
are now owned by CBS Corporation). Sanders works at NFL Network as an analyst 
on a number of the network's shows. Prior to the Sunday night game, Sanders, 
alongside host Rich Eisen and Steve Mariucci, breaks down all the action 
from the afternoon matchups on NFL GameDay Highlights. At the conclusion 
of all the action on Sunday, Sanders, Mariucci, Michael Irvin and host 
Fran Charles recap the day's action on NFL GameDay Final with highlights, 
analysis and postgame interviews. For the 2010 season, Sanders joined Eisen, 
Mariucci and Marshall Faulk on the road for Thursday Night Kickoff Presented 
by Lexus, NFL Network's two-hour pregame show leading into Thursday Night 
Football. The group broadcasts live from the stadium two hours prior to 
all eight live Thursday Night Football games and returns for the Sprint 
Halftime Show and Kay Jewelers Postgame Show. Sanders also has a segment 
called "Let's Go Primetime" on NFL Network. In 2008, Sanders and his wife 
starred in the reality show Deion & Pilar: Prime Time Love, centering on 
them and their five children living in the small town of Prosper, Texas. 
Sanders appeared as himself in the fourth season of The League, playing 
a prospective buyer of Andre's apartment.[29] In 2014, Sanders was featured 
in an episode of Running Wild with Bear Grylls, where he and Grylls hiked 
in the desert of southern Utah for two days, rappelling down canyon walls 
and later climbing up a mesa.[30] Sanders served as an alumni captain for 
Team Sanders in the 2014 Pro Bowl.[31] In 2014, he rejoined CBS Sports 
as a studio analyst for Thursday games only. He still works for the NFL 
Network on Sundays. In addition to his sports career, Sanders also had 
a career in music as a rapper. He released his debut album, Prime Time, 
through Hammer's Bust It Records label via Capitol Records, in 1994. Sanders 
moved on to other ventures after his retirement. In 2003, Sanders took 
interest in Devin Hester, a return specialist from Miami. Sanders mentored 
Hester, counseling and advising him during various points of his collegiate 
career. The Chicago Bears drafted Hester in the second round of the 2006 
NFL Draft. Since then, Hester has broken the record for the most total 
returns for touchdowns in NFL history with 15 punt returns and 5 kick off 
returns. Hester has cited Sanders as one of his major inspirations and 
idols, and thanked him for his training and advice. Hester, also known 
as "Anytime", occasionally performs Sanders' signature touchdown dance 
and high-steps in homage to his mentor.[32][33][34] Sanders also tried 
to adopt a high school running back, Noel Devine, who was one of the top 
recruits in 2007. Sanders was advised against this, but responded, "He 
doesn't have parents; they died. God put this young man in my heart. This 
is not about sports. This is about a kid's life." He now mentors Devine, 
and was a factor in Devine's extended wait to sign a letter-of-intent to 
West Virginia University. Devine eventually signed to play football for 
the Mountaineers. Sanders has also been the mentor to Oakland Raiders wide 
receiver Michael Crabtree, as well as Dallas Cowboys wide receiver, Dez 
Bryant. In January 2004, Sanders was hired as an assistant coach to the 
Dallas Fury, a women's professional basketball team in the National Women's 
Basketball League, even though Sanders had never played organized basketball 
either in college or the professional level.[35] On September 2, 2005, 
in response to the after-effects of Hurricane Katrina, Sanders challenged 
all professional athletes in the four major sports to donate $1,000 each 
to relief efforts, hoping to raise between $1.5 and $3 million total. Sanders 
said "Through unity, we can touch thousands....I have friends and relatives 
that feel this pain. Help in any way you can."[citation needed] In April 
2006, Sanders became an owner of the Austin Wranglers, an Arena Football 
League team.[36] Sanders has occasionally served as a celebrity spokesperson, 
such as representing Monitronics, a security system firm, at an industry 
conference in the spring of 2010.[37] Sanders has been married twice — 
to Carolyn Chambers, with whom he has two children (Deion Sanders Jr. and 
Deiondra Sanders), and Pilar Biggers-Sanders with whom he has 3 children 
(Shilo, Shelomi, Shedeur). Deion appeared with his family on the NBC show 
Celebrity Family Feud which premiered on June 24, 2008. On September 22, 
2011, Deion served Pilar Biggers-Sanders with divorce papers. Deion then 
backed away from the story and denied he and Pilar would be divorcing. 
By December 17, 2011, Sanders had followed through with filing for divorce.[38] 
On March 12, 2013, Sanders was awarded primary custody of his two sons, 
Shilo and Shedeur, and Pilar was awarded primary custody of their daughter, 
Shelomi.[39] However, one week later, a judge awarded custody of Shelomi 
to Deion, as well.[40] During the divorce battle, Pilar made several accusations 
of abuse against Sanders on social media and in interviews, leading Sanders 
to file a Defamation of Character lawsuit against her. In 2015, Sanders 
was vindicated when the court awarded him a $2.2 million judgment against 
his ex-wife in the case.[41] Deion Sanders, along with J.M. Black, published 
his autobiography, Power, Money & Sex: How Success Almost Ruined My Life. 
World Publishing 1998. The book was inspired after he began counseling 
with Bishop T.D. Jakes. Sanders notes his agent Eugene E. Parker as another 
