Delmer Ennis (June 8, 1925 – February 8, 1996) was an American left and 
right fielder in Major League Baseball who played most of his career for 
the Philadelphia Phillies. From 1949 to 1957, Ennis accumulated more runs 
batted in (RBIs) than anyone besides Stan Musial and was eighth in the 
National League in home runs.[1] In 1950 he led the National League with 
126 RBIs as the Phillies won their first pennant in 35 years. He held the 
Phillies career record of 259 home runs from 1956 to 1980, and ranked 10th 
in NL history with 1,824 games in the outfield when his career ended.[citation 
needed] Ennis was born to George and Agnes Ennis in the Crescentville section 
of Philadelphia. He played baseball and football at Olney High School and 
was mentioned as an all-state fullback. The Philadelphia Phillies scout 
Jocko Collins came to watch one of Ennis's high school classmates pitch. 
When Ennis hit two long home runs, Collins tried to recruit him but Ennis 
was hesitant, worried that he was not ready, and unsure that he wanted 
to pursue a baseball career. In August 1942, Ennis finally signed with 
Collins to play with the Phillies Canadian–American League team, but the 
league suspended operation for World War II. Ennis signed with Collins 
again in March 1943 and hit .348 with 19 home runs and 16 triples for the 
Phillies Trenton, New Jersey Interstate League team. In September 1943, 
Philadelphia wanted to call Ennis to the Major Leagues, but he went into 
the United States Navy instead. Ennis saw military action in the Pacific 
Theater and also toured with a baseball team that included Billy Herman, 
Johnny Vander Meer and Schoolboy Rowe.[2] He joined the USN on September 
29, 1943 and was assigned to Sampson Naval Training Station, New York where 
he graduated as a signalman from "A" school at Sampson and then posted 
to the Hawaiian Sea Frontier. When the Navy learned that Ennis was associated 
with the Phillies, they assumed he was a Major Leaguer and invited him 
to fill one of the vacancies while in Honolulu. He was included on the 
Navy's Western PAC Tour of many Pacific Islands in 1944–1945. Ennis looked 
very good at the plate in the few exhibition games which immediately preceded 
the tours. His slugging prompted Dan Topping, new owner of the New York 
Yankees and a fellow serviceman at Pearl to offer him $25,000 to sign with 
the Yanks. The Phillies had paid Del only $50 to sign. His naval rank was 
Petty Officer Third Class. Most of his service was on the island of Guam 
after the winter tour. Playing with and against Major Leaguers on the tours 
was equivalent of a minor league apprenticeship for Ennis. After the tours 
he was assigned to a fleet recreation billet at Gab Gab Beach on Guam and 
stayed on the island for one year and did not make it back to the states 
as soon as some of the others because he did not have enough points built 
up. He finally returned stateside through San Diego on the USS Wakefield.[3] 
Ennis was discharged from the Navy on April 5, 1946 and joined the major 
league Phillies about a week later. Player-manager Ben Chapman delayed 
Ennis's debut since he had missed spring training, and then had him pinch-hit 
on April 28 against the Boston Braves – a groundout to shortstop.[2][4] 
Chapman gave Ennis the starting job in left field, a weak spot in the Phillies 
lineup. On May 5, Ennis hit his first home run – a three-run shot in the 
first inning – and then his second, both in the second game of a doubleheader. 
His favorite moment was on Del's birthday, June 8, 1946 by hitting a single 
to break up a perfect game with only four outs remaining against Red Barrett. 
Barrett of the Boston Braves had retired 22 batters in a row before Ennis' 
single.[5] Olney residents held a Del Ennis Night at Shibe Park with 36,356 
in attendance and an estimated 20,000 were turned away. Del singled with 
the bases loaded to drive in two runs in the first inning against the Cardinals 
and the Phils won. His average raised over .300 until a slump in July.[2] 
In his early career, Ennis was noted not only for his home runs and Runs 
Batted In and hard line drives, but also good outfield play and fast, hard 
baserunning.[2] Eleven weeks after his debut, Ennis became the first Phillies 
rookie ever to make an All-Star team on the strength of a strong throwing 
arm and lively bat. He also became the first ever Sporting News Rookie 
Award winner, and finished eighth in the MVP voting after batting .313 
with 17 home runs and 73 RBIs and placing second in the NL in slugging 
average (.485) behind Musial. Ennis showed his power in 1948, driving in 
95 runs with 30 home runs – a Phillies record for right-handed hitters, 
breaking Gavvy Cravath's 1915 total of 24. A year later, he hit .302 with 
25 homers and 110 RBIs, and he finished second in the NL in doubles both 
seasons. But his most productive season came in 1950, when he hit .311 
with career highs of 31 home runs and an NL-best 126 RBIs. The 31 HRs were 
the team record for right-handed hitters until teammate Stan Lopata hit 
32 in 1956. As a member of the 1950 team dubbed the "Whiz Kids", Ennis 
helped the Phillies to win their first pennant since 1915 in a finish that 
saw Philadelphia beat out the Brooklyn Dodgers on the last day of the season, 
only to be swept in the World Series by the New York Yankees, with Ennis 
hitting only .143 with no RBIs. Ennis placed fourth in the MVP voting, 
won by teammate Jim Konstanty. From 1952 to 1955, Ennis collected four 
20+ HR, 100+ RBI seasons, with highs of 29 and 125 in 1953. He was also 
named to three All-Star Games, in 1946, 1951 and 1955. In 1956 he passed 
Chuck Klein to become the Phillies all-time home run leader, and he held 
the record until Mike Schmidt passed him in 1980. On August 25, 1955: Before 
a double header with St. Louis, the Phillies honored Del Ennis for driving 
in more runs at that point than any player in team history. Ennis was presented 
with gifts including a Cadillac, TV, air conditioner, freezer, diamond 
ring, and fishing outfit. The Phillies won both games with Ennis adding 
four RBIs to his record total. The Philadelphia native became the first 
Phillies player in the modern era to reach 1,000 RBIs on August 9, 1955. 
Connie Mack Stadium was sold out for the Del Ennis Night later that month. 
(38,545). In 1956, he also broke Ed Delahanty's record of 1,544 games with 
the Phillies. By the end of the 1956 season he was also among the NL's 
top ten career home run leaders, though he dropped out of the top ten before 
his career ended. Traded to the St. Louis Cardinals before the 1957 season 
for Rip Repulski, Ennis responded with a .286 average, 26 home runs and 
105 RBIs, finishing second in the NL behind his teammate and roommate on 
the road Stan Musial. But his production dropped off sharply in 1958, and 
after two years in St. Louis he finished his career in 1959 playing for 
the Cincinnati Redlegs and the pennant winning Chicago White Sox. Despite 
hitting 12 HRs and driving in 35 RBIs in spring training for Cincinnati 
in 1959, Ennis was traded to the Chicago White Sox after the first week 
of the season in that year. In a 14-season career, Ennis compiled a .284 
batting average with 288 home runs, 2,063 hits, 1,284 RBIs and 985 runs 
in 1,903 games. The story of Ennis and the abuse he endured from Philadelphia 
fans in eleven seasons has obscured his impressive statistics and also 
his memory. Oft noted was the fans' animosity beginning with a slump year 
in 1951. Despite turning the record around later, the fans were merciless.[6] 
As an example, in the second game of a doubleheader against the Cardinals 
on July 31, 1954, in the top of the third inning, Ennis dropped an outfield 
fly with the bases loaded and all three runners scored. As Phil pitcher 
Steve Ridzik later remarked, "We had a packed house and the fans start 
to boo him unmercifully. It was terrible. The next inning when he went 
out to left field they booed and booed and booed. They booed him when he 
ran off the field at the end of the inning. . . .Here he is ... a hometown 
guy and everything. . . . He came to bat in the last of the eighth inning 
with the score still tied and two outs. The fans just booed and booed and 
all our guys on the bench are just hotter than a pistol. We were ready 
to fight the thirty-some thousand."[7] In the bottom half of the same inning 
with two on and two out, he hit the first pitch on the roof in left field 
at Connie Mack Stadium, and the Phillies won the game by a score of 6–5.[8] 
Ennis' career ended with a mid-season release by the White Sox in 1959, 
after having been acquired from Cincinnati during the first week of the 
1959 season. On May 1, he was traded to the AL White Sox helmed by Al López 
where Del was the starting left fielder throughout May into early June 
1959. In the first eleven games that he played with the White Sox, Ennis 
drove in seven runs including a game winner in mid-May at the Yankee Stadium. 
In fact, Ennis had four game-winning hits in six games in early 1959 and 
the White Sox went on to win the AL pennant that year. However, Ennis was 
not with the team that played the Dodgers in the 1959 World Series although 
he was voted a one-fourth WS share after the World Series. To make room 
on the roster for Norm Cash, who had completed his military service commitment, 
Ennis was waived by the White Sox in mid-June 1959, thus ending a career 
spanning fourteen seasons. His defensive replacement for the White Sox 
in that period was one Johnny Callison who later was traded to and starred 
with the Phillies. With Chicago, Ennis batted .219, with 2 HRs, 7 RBIs 
in 96 ABs. The White Sox released Ennis on June 20. They called-up Jim 
McAnany to play RF and moved Al Smith from RF to LF for the balance of 
the season. Ennis was No. 15 in batting for the pennant-winning White Sox 
in the 1959 season despite his early release and retirement. With personal 
problems in his family, Del needed to return to Philadelphia. Following 
his retirement as a player, Ennis operated a bowling alley named Del Ennis 
Lanes in Huntingdon Valley, Pennsylvania, with the former traveling secretary 
of the Phillies, John Wise. He also bred greyhound race dogs. Ennis also 
spent a year coaching baseball at the Penn State University Abington Campus 
(formerly Ogontz campus). He remembered his 1950 Phillies days in his sports 
enterprise, calling three dogs scheduled to run in Florida racetracks Whiz 
Kids Ennis, Whiz Kids Ashburn and Whiz Kids Roberts. In 1983, during the 
Phillies 100th anniversary year, he was named to the Philadelphia Phillies 
Centennial Team. There is now a plaque on the Phillies Wall of Fame at 
the team's new ballpark honoring the career of Ennis as a Whiz Kid. "I 
really didn't expect to stay with the Phillies but they had to give me 
a 30-day trial because I was on the National Defense List. I never had 
spring training [in 1946] and I pinch hit in Pittsburgh in my first game, 
then I got into the starting lineup. In my second game in left field, I 
hit a bases loaded double to beat the Pirates. A few days later in Chicago 
against the Cubs, I hit two homers in one game"[9] Ennis used to treat 
his bats with great care "I used to hang out at a gas station at Rising 
Sun and Van Kirk in the Crescentville section of Philadelphia called the 
Gas House. I used to take home a dozen bats at the end of each year. I 
would fill up one of those big drums with linseed oil and leave the bats 
in the drum all winter. They would get to be about 40–42 ounces and when 
I got to Florida for spring training, I put the bats in the dryer where 
they dried uniforms. That would get them down to about 36 ounces, and make 
them harder. Andy Seminick and I used the same bat all year in 1950 when 
we won the NL pennant."[10] On Ennis's best day as a Phil – Del hit three 
HRs and knocked in seven runs – he happened to pop out his fourth time 
up. "They booed the daylights out of me", he remembers.[11] "Now a pitcher 
can't go out of his way to hit somebody, he can't knock you down, and when 
we played we didn't wear helmets. They'd tell you they were going to put 
one in your ear and when you looked back and saw the catcher's glove by 
your head you got the idea you shouldn't take a toehold." – Del Ennis in 
Baseball Digest (July 1975) Del Ennis popped up with the bases loaded sending 
Cardinals Manager Fred Hutchinson into a slow burn. After Ennis dropped 
his bat into the rack, Hutchinson fetched it. He angrily took a swing at 
the concrete dugout steps. Nothing happened. Two more swings produced nothing 
more than dents in the bat. Hutch calmly walked to where Ennis sat and 
dropped the bat at his feet . Keep it he said "It's got good wood". Ennis 
died in Huntingdon Valley, Pennsylvania, at 70 years of age from complications 
of diabetes. He was buried in Hillside Cemetery, Roslyn, Pennsylvania. 
