The Delaware Valley is the valley through which the Delaware River flows. 
By extension, this toponym is commonly used to refer to the Philadelphia 
metropolitan area ("the [Lower] Delaware Valley Metropolitan Area"), which 
straddles the Lower Delaware River just north of its estuary. In geology 
and geography, a strict sense of the term would incorporate the Delaware 
River's main drainage basin, and so encompass major tributaries such as 
the Schuylkill River and Lehigh River and their valleys or sub-basins. 
These extensions also apply culturally with decreasing degree gradually 
decreased by proximal distance because the ease of land travel enables 
a great deal of daily interaction; for example, the large number of commuters 
who travel daily 45–90 minutes creates cultural blends and parallel values. 
The Delaware Valley Metropolitan Area is located at the southern part of 
the Northeast megalopolis extending from Boston to Washington, D.C. metropolitan 
areas. The Delaware Valley Metropolitan Area is composed of several counties 
in eastern Pennsylvania and southwestern New Jersey, one county in northern 
Delaware and one county in northeastern Maryland. The MSA has a population 
of over 6 million, while the CSA has a population of over 7.1 million (as 
of the 2010 Census Bureau count). Philadelphia, being the region's major 
commercial, cultural, and industrial center, wields a rather large sphere 
of influence that affects the counties that immediately surround it. As 
of March 2011, the Philadelphia–Camden–Wilmington, PA–NJ–DE–MD Metropolitan 
Statistical Area[3] constitutes the sixth-largest metropolitan area in 
the United States.[4][5][6] Its CSA ranks 8th. Based on commuter flows, 
the OMB also defines a wider labor market region that adds Berks County, 
Pennsylvania to the Philadelphia–Camden–Wilmington metro area bringing 
the total metropolitan population to 6.53 million. Philadelphia's media 
ranks fourth, behind New York City, Los Angeles, and Chicago, in Nielsen 
Media Market size rankings. It also borders the New York metropolitan area 
located directly to the north of this area. Such educational institutions 
as Delaware Valley Regional High School in Alexandria Township and Delaware 
Valley College in Doylestown Township are named after the region. Likewise, 
Frenchtown's now defunct newspaper The Delaware Valley News was another 
example of the usage. The following metropolitan areas (MSAs), other than 
the Trenton MSA, are included in the Combined Statistical Area (CSA). While 
Trenton is considered part of the Delaware Valley and often considered 
part of Philadelphia's market area, it is considered part of New York's 
CSA. The principal cities in each MSA are as follows: Philadelphia–Camden–Wilmington 
Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA)[8] Reading Metropolitan Statistical 
Area (MSA) Vineland–Millville–Bridgeton Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) 
Atlantic City–Hammonton, New Jersey Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA)[9][better source needed] 
Dover, Delaware Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) Ocean City, New Jersey 
Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) Trenton, New Jersey Metropolitan Statistical 
Area (MSA) The Delaware Valley is home to extensive populations of Irish 
Americans, German Americans, English Americans, Ukrainian Americans, Italian 
Americans, Polish Americans, Scottish Americans, Scotch-Irish Americans, 
Greek Americans, African Americans (over 40% of the city of Philadelphia's 
residents are black), Asians such as Chinese, Indian, Korean and Vietnamese, 
Armenians, Arabs and Turks, Indians and Pakistanis, Israelis (while American 
Jews form a significant ethno-religious community), Hispanics. Within the 
Hispanic population, the vast majority are Puerto Ricans, though other 
groups include Dominicans and Mexicans.[10] There is a significant West 
Indian community. There is even a small Native American community known 
as Lenapehoking for Lenni-Lenape Indians of West Philadelphia. Philadelphia's 
suburbs contain a high concentration of malls, the two largest of which 
have at least 5,000,000 square feet (460,000 m2) of office space, and at 
least 600,000 square feet (56,000 m2) of retail. These are the King of 
Prussia Mall in King of Prussia, Pennsylvania, which is the largest in 
the United States (leasable sq. feet of retail space), and the Cherry Hill 
Mall in Cherry Hill Township, New Jersey, which was the first enclosed 
mall on the East Coast. Malls, office complexes, strip shopping plazas, 
expressways, and tract housing are common sights, and more and more continue 
to replace rolling countryside, farms, woods, and wetlands. However, due 
to strong opposition by residents and political officials, many acres of 
land have been preserved throughout the Delaware Valley. Older townships 
and large boroughs such as Cheltenham, Norristown, Jenkintown, Upper Darby 
and West Chester retain distinct community identities while engulfed in 
suburbia. The fastest-growing counties[when?] are Chester, Montgomery, 
Bucks, and Gloucester. Upper Darby, in Delaware County is the largest township 
in the United States.[citation needed] Sometimes Reading is included in 
the Delaware Valley Metro Area.[citation needed] The Delaware Valley has 
four distinct seasons with ample precipitation and is divided by the 0 °C 
(32 °F) January isotherm. Most of Philadelphia and the NJ portion, almost 
all of the DE and MD portions, part of Delaware County, and extreme southern 
portions of Bucks and Chester Counties have a humid subtropical climate 
(Cfa.) The remainder of the Delaware Valley has a hot-summer humid continental 
climate (Dfa.) Snow amounts may vary widely year-to-year and normally do 
vary widely within the Delaware Valley. The region has only two ski areas: 
Bear Creek Ski and Recreation Area in eastern Berks County and Spring Mountain 
in central Montgomery County. Using the -3 °C January isotherm as a boundary, 
all of the Delaware Valley is humid subtropical except for portions of 
Berks County and higher areas of northern Chester County. The warm-summer 
humid continental climate (Dfb) only exists in higher areas of Berks where 
all monthly temperatures average below 22 °C. The valley was the territory 
of the Susquehannock and Lenape, who are recalled in place names throughout 
the region. The region became part of the Dutch colony of New Netherland 
after the exploration of Delaware Bay in 1609. The Dutch called the Delaware 
River the Zuyd Rivier, or South River, and considered the lands along it 
banks and those of its bay to be the southern flank of its province of 
New Netherland. In 1638, it began to be settled by Swedes, Forest Finns, 
Dutch, and Walloons and became the colony of New Sweden, though this was 
not officially recognized by the Dutch Empire who re-asserted control in 
1655. The area was taken by the English in 1664.[24] The name Delaware 
comes from Thomas West, 3rd Baron De La Warr, who had arrived at Jamestown, 
Virginia in 1610, just as original settlers were about to abandon it, and 
thus maintaining the English foothold on the North American continent. 
Many residents commute to jobs in Philadelphia, Camden, and Wilmington 
with the help of expressways and trains. Commutes from one suburb to another 
are also common, as office parks have sprung up in new commercial centers 
such as King of Prussia, Fort Washington, Cherry Hill, and Plymouth Meeting. 
Formerly, the region was served by the Delaware Valley Railway. Pennsylvania 
New Jersey Delaware Maryland Delaware River Bridges Listing of the professional 
sports teams in the Delaware Valley The two main newspapers are The Philadelphia 
Inquirer and the Philadelphia Daily News, owned by the Philadelphia Media 
Network. Local television channels include KYW-TV 3 (CBS), WPVI 6 (ABC), 
WCAU 10 (NBC), WHYY-TV 12 (PBS), WPHL-TV 17 (MyNetworkTV), WTXF 29 (FOX), 
WPSG 57 (CW), and WPPX 61 (Ion). Radio stations serving the area include: 
WRTI, WIOQ, WDAS (AM), and WTEL. Some believe that the term "Delaware Valley" 
is not entirely a synonym for "Greater Philadelphia". "Greater Philadelphia" 
implies that the region is centered on the city in an economic and cultural 
context, while "Delaware Valley" is a more generic geographic term that 
does not imply that any part is of more consequence than any other. Several 
organizations, such as KYW Radio and the Greater Philadelphia Tourism Marketing 
Corporation, consciously use the term "Greater Philadelphia" to assert 
that Philadelphia is the center of the region, referring to the less urbanized 
areas as "Philadelphia's countryside".[26] Others note that the customary 
media usage of the term omits the majority of the length of the Delaware 
River's valley that is not in metropolitan Philadelphia. WPVI-TV uses the 
slogan, "The Delaware Valley's leading news program" for their Action News 
broadcast, since that program has led the ratings for news programs in 
the Philadelphia market for over 30 years. Coordinates: 39°52′37″N 75°19′23″W﻿ 
