Delorimier Stadium (French pronunciation: ​[dəlɔʁimje]; also known as Montreal 
Stadium, Hector Racine Stadium and Delorimier Downs) [2] was a 20,000-seat 
sports stadium at 2101 Ontario Street East, at the corner of De Lorimier 
Avenue in the present-day Montreal borough of Ville-Marie. The stadium 
was home to the Montreal Royals International League baseball team, top 
farm club of the Brooklyn Dodgers Major League Baseball team, from 1928 
to 1960, and from 1946 to 1953, home to the Montreal Alouettes of the Canadian 
Football League. Delorimier Downs, as it was originally called, was built 
by former Major League Baseball manager, George Stallings, Montreal lawyer 
and politician Athanase David, and Montreal businessman Ernest Savard. 
Among the stadium's other local affluent financiers were close friends 
Lucien Beauregard, Romeo Gauvreau, Hector H. Racine, and Charles E. Trudeau. 
The stadium opened in May 1928 following a parade and a large inauguration 
ceremony. Royals' general manager Frank Shaughnessy had a lighting system 
installed in the stadium for the 1935 season. The stadium saw the launching 
of the baseball career of Gene Mauch, who later came back to manage the 
Montreal Expos, plus future Hall of Fame members Sparky Anderson, Roberto 
Clemente and Jackie Robinson, the man who, debuting in professional baseball 
with the Montreal Royals in 1946, would go on to break baseball's color 
barrier with the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947. Other Royals' players of note 
include player-turned-actor Chuck Connors and Hall of Fame members Duke 
Snider, Don Drysdale, Walter Alston, Roy Campanella and Tommy Lasorda. 
The Montreal Alouettes were founded in 1946 and played there to capacity 
crowds until 1953 when the team moved to larger facilities. It is where 
Canadian Football Hall of Fame quarterback Sam Etcheverry made his CFL 
debut. In 1951, several association football (soccer) teams toured North 
America. Celtic played an exhibition match at Delorimier Stadium on May 
20 against Fulham. In 1957 Celtic returned to Delorimier for a June 9 exhibition 
match against Tottenham Hotspur. Although six years apart, on both occasions 
the ticket price was 15¢.[3] Delorimier Stadium was also the site of a 
number of professional boxing and wrestling matches. In June 1952, Dodgers 
owner Walter O'Malley[4] travelled to Delorimier Stadium to dedicate a 
plaque to Hector Racine,[5] who was not only the owner of the Royals, but 
a member of the Dodgers board.[6] Delorimier Stadium saw Walter O'Malley 
return four years later to attend Hector Racine Memorial Night with a high-ranking 
delegation of Brooklyn Dodgers, International League and Major League baseball 
executives. Only this time it was to dedicate a plaque to honor Hector 
Racine's memory.[5] Hector Racine died that same year in Miami, Florida 
after watching the Brooklyn Dodgers lose to the Boston Red Sox in an exhibition 
game.[7] With Racine in the Delorimier Stadium president's office, the 
Royals won more pennants, playoffs and Little World Series than any club 
in International League history to date.[5] After the Montreal Royals disbanded 
in 1960, the stadium saw limited use. It was briefly considered as a home 
for the major league Expos when that team launched in 1969. However, it 
could not be renovated or expanded because it was in the middle of a residential 
area, and was thus deemed unsuitable even for temporary use.[8] It was 
eventually torn down. Prior to the demolition of the stadium, the building 
was torn down in bits, and the interior was used to house makeshift classrooms 
as the student population in Quebec grew rapidly (due to kids staying in 
school longer) in the late 1960s (see External link below). The site is 
now occupied by the Pierre Dupuy School, a secondary school. There is a 
small stone memorial surrounded by a red batting cage at the corner of 
the park (Ontario and Delorimier) with a bronze plaque honouring Mr. Robinson's 
accomplishments. Coordinates: 45°31′42″N 73°33′27″W﻿ / ﻿45.52833°N 73.55750°W﻿ 
