A demonstration sport is a sport which is played to promote it, most commonly 
during the Olympic Games, but also at other sporting events. Demonstration 
sports were officially introduced in 1912 Summer Olympics, when Sweden 
decided to include glima, traditional Icelandic wrestling, in the Olympic 
program, but with its medals not counting as official. Most organizing 
committees then decided to include at least one demonstration sport at 
each edition of the Games, usually some typical or popular sport in the 
host country, like baseball at the 1984 Los Angeles Olympic Games and taekwondo 
at the 1988 Seoul Olympic Games. From 1912 to 1992, only two editions of 
the Summer Olympics did not have demonstration sports on their program. 
Some demonstration sports eventually gained enough popularity to become 
an official sport in a subsequent edition of the Games. Traditionally, 
the medals awarded for the demonstration events followed the same design 
as the Olympic medals, but of a smaller size. They are never included in 
the medal count. Demonstration sports were suspended after the 1992 Summer 
Olympics, as the Olympic program grew bigger and it became more difficult 
for the organizing committees to give them the appropriate attention, since 
the IOC required the same treatment to be dispensed for official and demonstration 
sports.[1] It is unlikely that they will be reintroduced as a requirement 
for future Olympic organizing committees. However, the Beijing Olympic 
Committee received permission from the IOC to run a wushu competition parallel 
to the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games, Wushu Tournament Beijing 2008.[2][3][4] 
From the 1984 Summer Olympics until the 2004 Summer Olympics, two Paralympic 
events (a men's and a women's wheelchair racing event) were included in 
the athletics programme of each Games. These events are considered by many 
as a demonstration sport, but are, in fact, used to promote the Paralympic 
Games. Disabled events in alpine and Nordic skiing (1988 only) were also 
held as demonstration sports at the 1984 and 1988 Winter Olympics. Here 
is the list of demonstration sports played at the Summer Olympic Games: 
Here is the list of demonstration sports played at the Winter Olympic Games: 
