On July 28, 1991, Dennis Martínez of the Montreal Expos pitched the 13th 
perfect game in Major League Baseball history, blanking the Los Angeles 
Dodgers 2-0 at Dodger Stadium.[1] A native of Granada, Nicaragua, Martínez 
became the first pitcher born outside of the United States to pitch a perfect 
game. (He has since been joined by Venezuela native Félix Hernández, who 
pitched a perfect game in 2012.) The perfect game also made the Dodgers, 
the losing team in Tom Browning's perfect game in 1988, the first team 
to be on the losing end of consecutive perfect games; they have since been 
joined by the Tampa Bay Rays, who were the losing team in Mark Buehrle's 
perfect game in 2009 and Dallas Braden's perfect game the following year. 
After completing the perfect game, Martínez slowly walked into the Dodger 
stadium dugout, sat down by himself and cried. The perfect game is the 
last of four no-hitters in Montreal Expos history, Bill Stoneman having 
pitched two, in 1969 (the franchise's inaugural season, and only nine games 
into its history) and 1972, and Charlie Lea in 1981. After the 2004 season, 
the franchise moved to Washington, D.C., where it became the Washington 
Nationals, and would not record the first no-hitter in its Washington history 
until Jordan Zimmermann no-hit the Miami Marlins on September 28, 2014. 
Martínez's mound opponent, Mike Morgan, was perfect himself through five 
innings, the latest the opposing starter in a perfect game has remained 
perfect. Two days earlier, Martínez's teammate, Mark Gardner, no-hit the 
Dodgers through nine innings but lost the no-hitter, and eventually the 
game, in the tenth. The Expos would have become the first team to throw 
a perfect game and an additional no-hitter in the same series, and would 
have joined the 1917 St. Louis Browns as the only teams to throw two no-hitters 
in the same series. On consecutive days of that season, May 5–6, Ernie 
Koob and Bob Groom no-hit the eventual World Champion Chicago White Sox. 
Dodger Stadium, the site of Sandy Koufax's perfect game in 1965, became 
the first stadium to witness two perfect games; it has since been joined 
by Yankee Stadium, Oakland–Alameda County Coliseum and Safeco Field. Chris 
Gwynn, the younger brother of Hall-of-Famer Tony Gwynn, flew out to Marquis 
Grissom for the game's final out. Martínez's catcher, Ron Hassey, had caught 
Len Barker's perfect game in 1981, thus making him the first, and to date 
only, catcher to catch two Major League perfect games. The perfect game 
was the third losing perfect game Alfredo Griffin played in; he was also 
on the losing end of Tom Browning's perfect game in 1988, and Len Barker's 
perfect game in 1981 while with the Toronto Blue Jays. Griffin has since 
been joined by four Tampa Bay Rays in sharing this dubious mark: Evan Longoria, 
Carlos Peña, B. J. Upton and Ben Zobrist were all on the losing end of 
Mark Buehrle's perfect game in 2009, Dallas Braden's perfect game in 2010, 
and Félix Hernández's perfect game in 2012. Italics denotes post-season perfect game 
