As president As owner As manager Harmar Denny McKnight (April 29, 1848 
– May 5, 1900) was an early baseball manager and executive. On October 
15, 1881 he founded the Allegheny Base Ball Club of Pittsburgh in anticipation 
of playing in the new American Association.[1] The club then became known 
as the Pittsburgh Alleghenys (now known as the Pittsburgh Pirates). Denny 
was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He was the son of Robert McKnight, 
a Republican congressional legislator representing Pennsylvania's 22nd 
congressional district. His brother Woodruff, was an early baseball catcher 
for the Enterprise Base Ball Club in Pittsburgh.[2] Denny graduated from 
Lafayette College in 1869. He then became director of an iron manufacturing 
company in 1876.[3] McKnight's career in baseball began in 1876, when he 
and several local organizers formed the Allegheny Base Ball Club. The founding 
occurred just twenty days after Pittsburgh lost its bid to join the newly-formed 
National League. The club was named Pittsburgh Allegheny, a minor league 
baseball club which is unaffiliated with the modern day Pittsburgh Pirates. 
The team played their first game on April 15, 1876, defeating the Xanthas 
7-3, at Union Park.[4] Allegheny played their first game, defeating the 
Xanthas 7-3 at Union Park on April 15, 1876.[5] In 1877, McKnight was named 
the manager of the Pittsburgh Allegheny as the club became one of the first 
minor league baseball clubs as member of the International Association 
for Professional Base Ball Players. He also later served as the International 
Association's president after Candy Cummings resigned from the post. The 
team and the league would however fold in 1878.[3] On November 2, 1881, 
McKnight served as Allegheny's representative at the Gibson House in Cincinnati, 
Ohio during the founding meeting of the American Association. At the meeting, 
McKnight was made temporary chairman and Jimmy Williams was chosen temporary 
secretary of the Association.[3] McKnight was the principal owner of the 
Pittsburgh Alleghenys in the American Association and even served as the 
club's manager at the beginning of their 1884 season. In 1884, Edmund C. 
Converse, of the National Tube Company, succeeded McKnight as president 
of the club, which remained in the American Association for the next five 
years.[5] McKnight served as president of the American Association until 
he was ousted in 1886. His ouster was result of a controversy surrounding 
St. Louis Browns player Sam Barkley. In March 1886, Browns owner Chris 
von der Ahe offered Barkley for $1000 to Allegheny, the first team to pay 
the money. Billy Barnie, the manager of the Baltimore Orioles, was able 
to have Barkley sign an undated contract with his team and wired the $1000 
asking price to Von der Ahe. However Von der Ahe had already secured a 
deal with McKnight, who was still the Alleghenys' owner. Barkley was convinced 
by Von der Ahe to play for the Allegheny club instead of Baltimore. However 
the Orioles appealed the decision by McKnight, who used his position as 
the president of American Association to decide where Barkley would play. 
It was later decided that the American Association would suspend and fine 
Barkley for signing with Allegheny. However McKnight refused Barkley's 
punishment and did not tell Barkley he would be suspended for the year. 
Barkley sued the Association, but they settled out of court with the suspension 
being lifted although the fine stayed in place. Baltimore was offered and 
accepted Milt Scott as payment. For his role in the controversy, McKnight 
was ousted as American Association president. This then led Allegheny president 
William A. Nimick to move the team from the American Association to the 
National League.[6] The Alleghenys were severely crippled during their 
1890 season, when nearly all of their stars jumped to the Pittsburgh Burghers 
of the Players' League. With a decimated roster, the team experienced what 
is still the worst season in franchise history, going 23-113.[7] The battle 
nearly ruined McKnight, and he was forced to return his franchise to the 
league. However, almost immediately after this, McKnight joined the backers 
of the Burghers as a minority owner, which then repurchased the Pittsburgh 
National League franchise and rechartered it under a different corporate 
name. Once the upstart league folded that season, the Alleghenys were thus 
able to legally recover the services of most of the players who had jumped 
