Dennis M. Mannion is the President/CEO of Palace Sports and Entertainment 
for all Business Operations of the Detroit Pistons, The Palace of Auburn 
Hills, DTE Energy Music Theatre, and the Meadowbrook Music Festival on 
the Oakland University campus. Mannion holds the rare distinction of having 
experience in all four Major League sports: MLB, NHL, NBA, and NFL.[1] 
After graduating college, Dennis Mannion began his sports management career 
in Major League Baseball, spending 16 years with the Philadelphia Phillies 
from 1982 to 1997. He worked his way up through the Phillies organization 
to serve as Vice President of Marketing and Sales for eight seasons.[2] 
In Philadelphia he developed a reputation for making major league baseball 
a fun activity for all fans, young and old, at Veterans Stadium. Mannion 
played a key role as well in bringing the 1996 MLB All-Star Game to Philadelphia.[1] 
Mannion left the Phillies in 1997 for a position as Senior Vice President 
of Ascent Sports in Denver, Colorado. His duties included handling business 
operations for the Accent-owned NHL Colorado Avalanche and NBA Denver Nuggets. 
Mannion also oversaw the movement of both teams games and operations to 
the newly built Pepsi Center.[1] His next career move saw Mannion back 
on the east coast, working in management for the Baltimore Ravens, serving 
eight seasons as Senior Vice President of Business Ventures from 1999 til 
2007. While working for the Ravens organization he oversaw the development 
of TV and radio shows focusing on the team, expanded Ravens branding opportunities 
and revenue streams, and brought such events as the 2000 and 2007 Army-Navy 
Game to M&T Bank Stadium.[3] Dennis Mannion was on the move again in November,2007, 
joining the Los Angeles Dodgers. He worked as Executive Vice-President 
and Chief Operating Officer from November, 2007 until March 2009 when he 
was promoted to President and CEO. Under his leadership the Dodgers led 
the league in game attendance, and reached the National League Championship 
Series two consecutive years.[1] With ownership changes in Detroit, and 
pending change in ownership of the Dodgers organization, Mannion took on 
his current position in 2011. A native of New York, Mannion graduated from 
the University of Massachusetts in 1981 with a bachelor's degree in Business 
and Sports Management. He received the “Distinguished Alumnus Award” from 
his alma mater in 1998. Mannion and wife Pam are the parents of five children.[1] 
