The New Orleans Zephyrs are a minor league baseball team based in Metairie, 
Louisiana, a suburb of New Orleans. The Zephyrs play in the Pacific Coast 
League (PCL) and are the Triple-A affiliate of the Miami Marlins.[1] The 
Zephyrs play their home games at Zephyr Field. The Zephyrs joined the PCL 
after the 1997 season when the American Association (AA) was disbanded. 
The Zephyrs were one of five clubs from the AA to join the PCL, with three 
joining the International League. Triple-A baseball was also expanded to 
30 teams at that time, concurrent with the expansion of Major League Baseball. 
The Zephyrs franchise history spans 100 years, three cities, five leagues, 
and affiliations with 14 of the present 30 Major League teams, some on 
more than one occasion. Both the organization's formation and geographic 
moves were in response to franchise movements on the major league level. 
Prior to 1978, New Orleans was home to another minor-league team, the New 
Orleans Pelicans. In order to bolster its claim to Major League status, 
the American League moved some of its teams from mid-sized Midwestern cities 
to larger Eastern venues for the 1901 season. One such shift saw the Kansas 
City Blues become the Washington Senators. With the town suddenly bereft 
of a ball club, a new team, which would, in time, become the Zephyrs, was 
quickly founded. Playing with the old Blues nickname, the team was easily 
the class of the new, but unrated, incarnation of the Western League, winning 
the pennant by 10 games. With a decent team and a solid fan base, the franchise 
moved on to become a founding member of the new American Association, rated 
at what today would be the AAA level. Although only moderately successful 
on the field, the team was a fixture of the Midwest sports scene, playing 
in Kansas City for over half a century. The most notable player for the 
franchise was future Baseball Hall of Fame member Phil Rizzuto, the League 
MVP and Sporting News Minor League Player of the Year in 1940. Another 
MVP was Don Bollweg in 1952. The team, itself, won the championship in 
1938, and then back-to-back in 1952 and 1953. Winning teams boast higher 
ticket sales, so when the Philadelphia Athletics found themselves unable 
to compete for market-share with the Phillies and decided to relocate after 
the 1954 season, Kansas City, Missouri was an attractive choice. This move, 
however, forced the Blues out, victims of their own success. The franchise 
set up shop in Denver, Colorado in 1955. Although naming a team for its 
uniform color had been popular in the 19th century, it was not fashionable 
in the 20th. As Denver had no connection to the original Blues, and in 
recognition of the new location in the Rockies, the team took on a new 
nickname, the "Bears." (The Bears name has been used for other sports teams 
in Denver in the past several years as well.) The team played at what became 
known later as Mile High Stadium, but was originally known as Bears Stadium, 
after the team. This stadium was one of the largest venues in history to 
host minor league baseball on a routine basis, and had the additional draw 
of being in one of the largest minor league markets at the time. For many 
years, the biggest crowds were on 4th of July fireworks nights, and every 
year the American Association scheduled the Bears for a home game. Crowds 
of 45,000 and more watched the fireworks game, easily the biggest crowds 
most of the minor leaguers had ever played in front of. The Triple-A Bears 
were affiliated with the New York Yankees at the outset, with Ralph Houk 
managing many players who would reach the majors and play in the World 
Series. The team had some early success, winning the AA Championship in 
1957. League MVPs in this period included Marv Throneberry in 1956 and 
Steve Boros in 1960. Although the team had been a member of the American 
Association since the league's inception 60 years before, it was a Midwestern 
circuit, and for the 1963 season, the Bears transferred to the Pacific 
Coast League. The mid-1960s Bears included such future big-leaguers as 
César Tovar and Ted Uhlaender, but lacked overall success. It also turned 
out that with the PCL otherwise all but confined to the actual Pacific 
coast, Denver was now located too far east; in 1969 the franchise returned 
to the AA. The Denver Bears had some good teams from the 1970s to the mid-1980s, 
producing such players as Andre Dawson, Tim Wallach, Warren Cromartie, 
Tim Raines, Graig Nettles, Terry Francona, Wallace Johnson, Danny Morris, 
Pat Rooney, and Bill Gullickson. Denver players Richie Scheinblum, Cliff 
Johnson, Roger Freed, Frank Ortenzio, and Randy Bass were league MVPs. 
The managing careers of both Billy Martin and Felipe Alou began with the 
Bears. The team won the Association's championship with some regularity, 
topping the league in 1971, 1976, 1977, 1981, and 1983. In 1985, the team 
name was changed to the Denver Zephyrs, after the famous passenger train. 
Barry Larkin was league MVP while with the Zephyrs, as were Greg Vaughn, 
Jim Olander, and Jim Tatum. ESPN broadcaster Orestes Destrade also played 
for the Zephyrs. Under the new nickname, the franchise won the American 
Association in 1987 and took the 1991 pennant. They went on to win the 
1991 Triple-A Classic against the International League's Columbus Clippers, 
4–1.[2] The Denver Zephyrs lasted eight seasons. Then in 1993, the Major 
Leagues arrived in Denver with the Colorado Rockies expansion team of the 
National League and it was time to find a new home for the Zephyrs. Louisiana 
lawyer/business promoter Robert E. Couhig, Jr. led the effort to relocate 
the team to New Orleans. Oddly, the "Zephyr" name was appropriate for New 
Orleans, too, as the Zephyr Roller Coaster was a popular ride at the Pontchartrain 
Beach amusement park (which had closed in 1983). They remained in the American 
Association until 1998 when they moved to the Pacific Coast League, despite 
the fact they were now over 1,600 miles (2,600 km) away from the Pacific 
coast. The Zephyrs won the 1998 Pacific Coast League championship and went 
on to win the Triple-A World Series against the Buffalo Bisons, 3–1. The 
Zephyrs were also slated to participate in the 2001 championship series 
with the Tacoma Rainiers, but the season was cancelled in the wake of the 
September 11 attacks, and the teams were named co-champions. The Zephyrs 
finished the 2005 season three days before Hurricane Katrina hit New Orleans, 
and though Zephyr Field sustained moderate damage,[3] the team was able 
to open the 2006 season at home, making them the first professional team 
in New Orleans to do so after the hurricane.[4] On May 5–6, 2006 in a game 
that became known as the "Music City Marathon", the Zephyrs played 24 innings 
in Nashville, ultimately defeating the Sounds 5–4 the next day on a Wiki 
González RBI single. The Z's scored once in the eighth and once in the 
ninth, and the teams remained tied through 18 innings before curfew was 
called. The 24 innings matches the longest game in PCL history, set in 
1909, and the Z's set 12 franchise records, including striking out a league-record 
29 times. In 2008, the Zephyrs' season ended three days early due to the 
approach of Hurricane Gustav. When it became apparent that Gustav would 
hit the Gulf Coast on September 1, the Zephyrs cancelled their games of 
August 30 through September 1.[5] On September 22, 2008, the Zephyrs became 
the AAA affiliate of the Florida Marlins (now the Miami Marlins). In October 
2009, the Zephyrs unveiled a new logo, clearly embracing New Orleans with 
the "Fleur de Z" logo. The Zephyrs plan to rebrand for the 2017 season. 
A "name the team" contest is being held in search of a new team name which 
will be accompanied by new logos and a color scheme by Brandiose.[6] The 
seven finalist monikers are Baby Cakes, Crawfish, King Cakes, Night Owls, 
Po’boys, Red Eyes, and Tailgators.[7] Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders 
Manager Coaches 7-day disabled list * On Miami Marlins 40-man roster # 
Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve list ‡ Restricted list § Suspended list † Temporary 
inactive list Roster and coaches updated September 4, 2016 Transactions 
