Derby (i/ˈdɑːrbi/ DAR-bi) is a city in Derbyshire, England, on the banks 
of the River Derwent. In 2011, it had a population of 248,700. Derby was 
settled by Romans – who established the town of Derventio – Saxons and 
Vikings, who made Derby one of the Five Boroughs of the Danelaw. Initially 
a market town, Derby grew rapidly in the industrial era. Home to Lombe's 
Mill, an early British factory, Derby has a claim to be one of the birthplaces 
of the Industrial Revolution. With the arrival of the railways in the 19th 
century, the city became a centre of the British rail industry. Derby is 
an internationally renowned centre for advanced transport manufacturing, 
home to the world’s second largest aero-engine manufacturer, Rolls-Royce, 
and Derby Litchurch Lane Works, for many years the UK's only train manufacturer. 
Toyota Manufacturing UK's automobile headquarters is south west of the 
city at Burnaston. The Roman camp of 'Derventio' was probably at Little 
Chester/Chester Green (grid reference SK353375), the site of the old Roman 
fort. Later the town was one of the 'Five Boroughs' (fortified towns) of 
the Danelaw, until it was captured by Lady Aethelflaed of Mercia in July 
917, subsequent to which the town was annexed into the Kingdom of Mercia.[4] 
The Viking name Djúra-bý, recorded in Old English as Deoraby, means "Village 
of the Deer". This popular belief is asserted by Tim Lambert who states, 
"The name Derby is derived from the Danish words deor by meaning deer settlement."[5] 
However the origin of the name "Derby" would seem to be elusive: some assert 
that it is a corruption of the original Roman name 'Derventio' and others 
that the name could be linked with the river which flows through it, the 
Derwent, in that Derby could be a shortened version of Derwent by, meaning 
"Derwent settlement". The name "Derwent" is Celtic and means "a valley 
thick with oaks".[6] The town name appears, nevertheless, as 'Darby' or 
'Darbye' on early modern maps, such as that of Speed (1610).[citation needed] 
Modern research (2004) into the history and archaeology of Derby has provided 
evidence that the Vikings and Anglo-Saxons probably co-existed, occupying 
two areas of land surrounded by water. The Anglo-Saxon Chronicle (c. 900) 
says that "Derby is divided by water". These areas of land were known as 
Norþworþig ("Northworthy", = "north enclosure") and Deoraby, and were at 
the "Irongate" (north) side of Derby.[7] During the Civil War of 1642–1646, 
Derby was garrisoned by Parliamentary troops commanded by Sir John Gell, 
1st Baronet, who was appointed Governor of Derby in 1643. These troops 
took part in the defence of nearby Nottingham, the Siege of Lichfield, 
the Battle of Hopton Heath and many other engagements in Nottinghamshire, 
Staffordshire and Cheshire, as well as successfully defending Derbyshire 
against Royalist armies. A hundred years later, Bonnie Prince Charlie set 
up camp at Derby on 4 December 1745, whilst on his way south to seize the 
British crown. The prince called at The George Inn on Irongate, where the 
Duke of Devonshire had set up his headquarters, and demanded billets for 
his 9,000 troops. He stayed at Exeter House, Full Street where he held 
his "council of war". A replica of the room is on display at Derby Museum 
in the city centre. He had received misleading information about an army 
coming to meet him south of Derby. Although he wished to continue with 
his quest, he was over-ruled by his fellow officers. He abandoned his invasion 
at Swarkestone Bridge on the River Trent just a few miles south of Derby. 
As a testament to his belief in his cause, the prince – who on the march 
from Scotland had walked at the front of the column – made the return journey 
on horseback at the rear of the bedraggled and tired army. Derby and Derbyshire 
were among the centres of Britain's Industrial Revolution. In 1717, Derby 
was the site of the first water powered silk mill in Britain, built by 
John Lombe and George Sorocold, after Lombe had reputedly stolen the secrets 
of silk-throwing from Piedmont in Italy (he is alleged to have been poisoned 
by the Piedmontese as revenge in 1722). In 1759, Jedediah Strutt patented 
and built a machine called the Derby Rib Attachment[8] that revolutionised 
the manufacture of hose. This attachment was used on the Rev. Lee's Framework 
Knitting Machine; it was placed in front of – and worked in unison with 
– Lee's Frame, to produce ribbed hose (stockings). The partners were Jedediah 
Strutt, William Woollatt (who had been joined in 1758 by John Bloodworth 
and Thomas Stafford, all leading hosiers in Derby). The patent was obtained 
in January 1759. After three years, Bloodworth and Stafford were paid off, 
and Samuel Need – a hosier of Nottingham – joined the partnership. The 
firm was known as Need, Strutt and Woollatt. The patent expired in 1773,[8] 
though the partnership continued until 1781 when Need died. Messrs Wright, 
the bankers of Nottingham, recommended that Richard Arkwright apply to 
Strutt and Need for finance for his cotton spinning mill. The first mill 
opened in Nottingham in 1770 and was driven by horses. In 1771 Richard 
Arkwright, Samuel Need and Jedediah Strutt built the world's first commercially 
successful water-powered cotton spinning mill at Cromford, Derbyshire, 
developing a form of power that was to be a catalyst for the Industrial 
Revolution.[10][11][12] This was followed in Derbyshire by Jedediah Strutt's 
cotton spinning mills at Belper. They were: South Mill, the first, 1775; 
North Mill, 1784, which was destroyed by fire on 12 January 1803 and then 
rebuilt; it started work again at the end of 1804; West Mill, 1792, commenced 
working 1796; Reeling Mill, 1897; Round Mill, which took 10 years to build, 
from 1803 to 1813, and commenced working in 1816; and Milford Mills, 1778. 
The Belper and Milford mills were not built in partnership with Arkwright. 
These mills were all Strutt owned and financed. Other famous 18th-century 
figures with connections to Derby include the painter Joseph Wright, known 
as Wright of Derby, who was famous for his revolutionary use of light in 
his paintings and was an associate of the Royal Academy; and John Whitehurst, 
a famous clockmaker and philosopher. Erasmus Darwin, doctor, scientist, 
philosopher and grandfather of Charles Darwin, whose practice was based 
in Lichfield, Staffordshire was a frequent visitor to Derby, having founded 
the Derby Philosophical Society. The beginning of the next century saw 
Derby emerging as an engineering centre with manufacturers such as James 
Fox, who exported machine tools to Russia. In 1840, the North Midland Railway 
set up its works in Derby and, when it merged with the Midland Counties 
Railway and the Birmingham and Derby Junction Railway, to form the Midland 
Railway, Derby became its headquarters. The connection with the railway 
encouraged others, notably Andrew Handyside, Charles Fox and his son Francis 
Fox. A permanent military presence was established in the city with the 
completion of Normanton Barracks in 1877.[13] Derby was one of the boroughs 
reformed by the Municipal Corporations Act 1835, and it became a county 
borough with the Local Government Act 1888. The borough expanded in 1877 
to include Little Chester and Litchurch, and then in 1890 to include New 
Normanton and Rowditch. The borough did not increase substantially again 
until 1968, when under a recommendation of the Local Government Boundary 
Commission it was expanded into large parts of the rural district of Belper, 
Repton and South East Derbyshire. This vastly increased Derby's population 
from 132,408 in the 1961 census to 219,578 in the 1971 census.[14] Despite 
being one of the areas of Britain furthest from the sea, Derby holds a 
special place in the history of marine safety – it was as MP for Derby 
that Samuel Plimsoll introduced his bills for a 'Plimsoll line' (and other 
marine safety measures). This failed on first introduction, but was successful 
in 1876 and contributed to Plimsoll's re-election as an MP. An industrial 
boom began in Derby when Rolls-Royce opened a car and aircraft factory 
in the town in 1907. In 1923, the Midland Railway became part of the London, 
Midland and Scottish Railway with headquarters in London. However, Derby 
remained a major rail manufacturing centre, second only to Crewe and Wolverton. 
Moreover, it remained a design and development centre and in the 'thirties, 
on the direction of Lord Stamp, the LMS Scientific Research Laboratory 
was opened on London Road.[citation needed] In World War I, Derby was targeted 
by German Zeppelin air bombers, who killed five people in a 1916 raid on 
the town.[15] All Saints Church was designated as a cathedral in 1927, 
signalling that the town was ready for city status.[citation needed] Slum 
clearance in the 1920s and 1930s saw the central area of Derby become less 
heavily populated as families were rehoused on new council estates in the 
suburbs, where houses for private sale were also constructed. Rehousing, 
council house building and private housing developments continued on a 
large scale for some 30 years after the end of World War II in 1945.[5] 
Production and repair work continued at the railway works. In December 
1947 the Locomotive Works unveiled Britain's first mainline passenger diesel-electric 
locomotive – "Number 10000". In 1958 production switched over to diesel 
locomotives completely. Meanwhile, the Carriage and Wagon Works were building 
the first of the Diesel Multiple Units which were to take over many of 
the services. In 1964 the British Rail Research Division opened to study 
all aspects of railway engineering from first principles. Its first success 
was in drastically improving the reliability and speed of goods trains, 
work which led to the development of the Advanced Passenger Train. Derby 
gained a high profile in sport following the appointment of Brian Clough 
as manager of Derby County F.C. in 1967. Promotion to the Football League 
First Division was achieved in 1969, and County were champions of the English 
league three years later. Following the Clough's resignation in 1973, his 
successor Dave Mackay guided Derby County to another league title in 1975, 
but this remains to date the club's last major trophy; relegation followed 
in 1980 and top flight status was not regained until 1987, since then Derby 
have spent a total of 11 seasons (1987–1991, 1996–2002, 2007–2008) in the 
top flight. The club moved from its century-old Baseball Ground in 1997 
to the new Pride Park Stadium.[16] Derby was awarded city status on 7 June 
1977 by Queen Elizabeth II to mark the 25th anniversary of her ascension 
to the throne.[17] The Queen presented the "charter scroll" or 'letters 
patent' in person on 28 July 1977 on the steps of the Council House to 
the then Mayor Councillor Jeffrey Tillet (Conservative).[18] Until then, 
Derby had been one of the few towns in England with a cathedral but not 
city status. Derby holds an important position in the history of the Labour 
movement, because it was one of two seats (the other being Keir Hardie's 
in Merthyr Tydfil) gained by the recently formed Labour Representation 
Committee at the 1900 general election. The MP was Richard Bell, General 
Secretary of the Railway Servants Union. Bell was succeeded in 1910 by 
Jimmy Thomas and he in turn by the distinguished polymath and Nobel Laureate 
Philip Noel-Baker in 1936. Despite its strategic industries (rail and aero-engine), 
Derby suffered comparatively little damage in both world wars (contrast 
Bristol and Filton). This may in part have been due to the jamming against 
the German radio-beam navigations systems (X-Verfahren and Knickebein, 
camouflage and decoy techniques ('Starfish sites') were built, mainly south 
of the town, e.g. out in fields near Foremark (ref. Kirk, Felix & Bartnik, 
2002, see talk; see also[19]). Derby has also become a significant cultural 
centre for the deaf community in Britain. Many deaf people move to Derby 
because of its strong sign language-using community. It is estimated that 
the deaf population in Derby is at least three times higher than the national 
average, and that only London has a larger deaf population. The Royal School 
for the Deaf on Ashbourne Road provides education in British Sign Language 
and English. By traditional definitions, Derby is the county town of Derbyshire, 
although Derbyshire's administrative centre has in recent years been Matlock. 
On 1 April 1997 Derby City Council became again a unitary authority (a 
status it had held, as a county borough, up until 1974), with the rest 
of Derbyshire administered from Matlock. On 7 July 2014, Derby's first 
ever youth mayor (Belal Butt) was elected. Derby was a single United Kingdom 
Parliamentary constituency represented by two members of parliament until 
1950, when it was divided into the single-member constituencies of Derby 
North and Derby South. The Rail Accident Investigation Branch has its headquarters 
in The Wharf, a facility in Derby.[20] RAIB has one of its two operational 
centres in Derby.[21][22] Derby is situated in a relatively low-lying area 
along the lower valley of the River Derwent and lies between the lowlands 
and valley of the River Trent to the south, and the south east foothills 
of the Pennines to the north which extend to the Peak District National 
Park further on. The city is bordered by four national character areas 
which include the Trent Valley Washlands to the south, the Nottinghamshire, 
Derbyshire and Yorkshire Coalfields in the east, the South Derbyshire Claylands 
in the west, and the Derbyshire Peak Fringe in the north. Most of the flat 
plains surrounding Derby lie in the Trent Valley Washlands and South Derbyshire 
Claylands while the hillier northern parts of the city lie within the Derbyshire 
Peak Fringe and the Coalfields.[23] Derby is split into 17 wards.[24] Derby's 
two biggest employers, Rolls-Royce plc and the Toyota Motor Corporation 
are engaged in engineering manufacturing. Other companies of note include 
railway systems engineering firm Bombardier Transportation who manufacture 
railway rolling stock at the Derby Carriage and Wagon Works, HeroTSC, who 
deal with much of Sky's telephone support, and Alstom who manufacture large 
power plant boilers and heat exchangers. Derby was for many years a railway 
centre, being the former headquarters of the Midland Railway, with both 
British Rail workshops and research facilities in the town. Although much 
less important than in years gone by, limited train manufacture still continues 
in Derby and Derby railway station retains an important position in the 
railway network. The city is favoured as a site for a national railway 
centre.[25] From 1922 Sinfin Lane was the home of the 62-acre (250,000 m2) 
site of International Combustion, originally manufacturers of machinery 
for the automatic delivery of pulverised fuel to furnaces and boilers, 
and later producing steam-generating boilers for use in electrical generating 
plant such as used in power stations. In the 1990s the firm was bought 
by Rolls-Royce plc and then sold on again to ABB Group.[26] Derby was the 
home of Core Design (originally based on Ashbourne Road), who developed 
the world-famous video game Tomb Raider. When Derby's inner ring road was 
completed in 2010, a section of it was named 'Lara Croft Way' after the 
game's heroine Lara Croft. One of Derby's longest-established businesses 
is Royal Crown Derby, which has been producing porcelain since the 1750s. 
The Midlands Co-operative Society, a predecessor of Central England Co-operative, 
traced its origins to Derby Co-operative Provident Society which, in 1854, 
was one of the first co-operatives in the region. Infinity Park Derby is 
a planned business park for aerospace, rail and automotive technology adjacent 
to the Rolls-Royce site in Sinfin. In December 2014, the government announced 
that the park would gain enterprise zone status by being added to Nottingham 
Enterprise Zone.[27] Under the Köppen climatic classification, Derby, in 
spite of its distance to large bodies of water, has an oceanic climate 
along with the rest of the British Isles. The readings are from the closest 
station available in Watnall, but climate tends to be very similar between 
stations and cities in the region, although the Watnall station is located 
at a somewhat higher elevation, 17 kilometres (11 mi) to the north.[28] 
Derby Cathedral tower is 212 feet (68.6 meters) tall to the tip of the 
pinnacles. This has been home to a pair of breeding peregrine falcons since 
2006.[30] Four webcams monitor the falcons here.[31] Derby Gaol is a visitor 
attraction based in the dungeons of the Derbyshire County Gaol which dates 
back to 1756. Derby Industrial Museum is situated in Derby Silk Mill and 
shows the industrial heritage and technological achievement of Derby, including 
Rolls-Royce aero engines, railways, mining, quarrying and foundries. Currently 
closed due to council cuts. The Silk Mill stands at the southern end of 
the 24 km (15 mi) stretch of the River Derwent designated a World Heritage 
Site in 2001. Pickford's House Museum was built by architect Joseph Pickford 
in 1770. It was his home and business headquarters. Derby Museum and Art 
Gallery shows paintings by Joseph Wright, as well as fine Royal Crown Derby 
porcelain, natural history, local regiments and archaeology. Pickford also 
designed St Helen's House in King Street. The skyline of the inner city 
changed in 1968 when the inner ring road with its two new crossings of 
the River Derwent was built. The route of the ring road went through the 
St. Alkmund's Church and its Georgian churchyard, the only Georgian square 
in Derby. Both were demolished to make way for the road, a move still criticised 
today. Thus the editor (Elizabeth Williamson) of the 2nd edition of Pevsner 
for Derbyshire wrote:- '...the character and cohesion of the centre has 
been completely altered by the replacement of a large number of C18 houses 
in the centre by a multi-lane road. As a traffic scheme this road is said 
to be a triumph; as townscape it is a disaster.' The city has extensive 
transport links with other areas of the country. The M1 motorway passes 
about ten miles (16 km) to the east of the city, linking Derby southwards 
to the London area and northwards to Sheffield and Leeds. Other major roads 
passing through or near Derby include the A6 (historically the main route 
from London to Carlisle, also linking to Leicester and Manchester), A38 
(Bodmin to Mansfield via Bristol and Birmingham), A50 (Warrington to Leicester 
via Stoke-on-Trent), A52 (Newcastle-under-Lyme to Mablethorpe, including 
Brian Clough Way linking Derby to Nottingham) and A61 (Derby to Thirsk 
via Sheffield and Leeds). On 16 March 2011, Mercian Way, the final section 
of the city's inner ring road, was opened to traffic.[32] This new section 
connects Burton Road with Uttoxeter New Road, and crosses Abbey Street. 
Abbey Street is the only road between the two ends from which Mercian Way 
can be accessed. Bold Lane Car Park in Derby has been cited as one of the 
ten most secure places in the world.[33] Derby has been served by railways 
since 1840 with the opening of the North Midland Railway to Leeds, with 
a route to London via Rugby provided by the Birmingham and Derby Junction 
Railway. At the same time, a route to Nottingham and Leicester was opened 
by the Midland Counties Railway. In 1844, these three companies merged 
to form the Midland Railway who subsequently opened a direct route to London 
St Pancras station. The present day station, Derby Midland is on the same 
site as 1840 and the original platform visibly forms the sub-structure 
of the modern Platform 1. The Midland Railway frontage was replaced in 
1985, and during 2008 and 2009 the 1950s concrete platform canopies were 
replaced with steel and glass structures. Derby station is operated by 
East Midlands Trains and the city is served by expresses to London, the 
North East and South West, provided by East Midlands Trains and CrossCountry. 
There also remain local stations at Peartree and Spondon, although services 
are limited, especially at the former. The Great Northern Railway's "Derbyshire 
and North Staffordshire Extension" formerly ran through Derby Friargate 
Station, from Colwick and Nottingham to Egginton Junction. After closure, 
part of the route west of Derby was used by British Rail as a test track. 
Today, the trackbed either side of Derby is blocked only by road development 
and has been converted to a Sustrans cycle track. The ornate cast iron 
bridge by Andrew Handyside across Friargate is still in place, as is his 
bridge over the river. As a consequence of the Midland Railway basing their 
headquarters in Derby, along with their Locomotive and Carriage and Wagon 
Works, the railways had been a major influence on the development of the 
town during the Victorian period. However, as described above, during the 
20th century, railway manufacturing developed elsewhere, while in Derby 
the emphasis shifted to other industries. Even though it had pioneered 
the introduction of diesel locomotives, new production finished in 1966. 
Repair work gradually diminished until, finally the locomotive works closed, 
the land being redeveloped as Pride Park. The only buildings remaining 
are those visible from Platform 6 of the station. The Carriage and Wagon 
Works continues to build trains under Bombardier Transportation. The Railway 
Technical Centre continues to house railway businesses, including the headquarters 
of DeltaRail Group, formerly the British Rail Research Division. East Midlands 
Airport is situated about fifteen miles (24 km) from Derby city centre. 
Its proximity to Derby, the fact that the airport is in Leicestershire, 
and the traditional rivalry between the three cities (Derby, Leicester 
and Nottingham), meant that there was controversy concerning the airport's 
decision to prefix its name with Nottingham in 2004. In 2006, Nottingham 
East Midlands Airport reverted to its previous name. The airport is served 
by budget airlines, including Ryanair and Jet2, with services to domestic 
and European destinations. Derby Airfield, located approximately 7 miles 
(11 km) southwest of the city centre has grass runways targeted at general 
aviation. Derby's former bus station was an art deco design by borough 
architect C.H. Aslin. Built in 1933, it was closed in 2005 and later demolished, 
despite the protests of environmentalists and conservationists. The unique 
cafe building is planned to be rebuilt at Crich Tramway Museum. After the 
closure of the old bus station, services used temporary stops on streets 
around the Morledge area until a new bus station, built on the old site 
as part of the Riverlights development, was opened on Sunday 28 March 2010. 
Most services in Derby now terminate at the bus station. The new bus station 
has 29 bays, 5 for coaches and 24 for general bus services. First, the 
concourse area where passengers board and alight was completed. The remainder 
of the building has been developed as a Holiday Inn and a Hilton Hotel 
as well as a convenience store which opened in late 2010. Local bus services 
in and around Derby are run by a number of companies, but principally Trent 
Barton and Arriva Midlands. The city is on National Express' London to 
Manchester and Yorkshire to the South West routes. Between 1932 and 1967, 
Derby Corporation operated the Derby trolleybus system. The last trolleybus 
ran on 9 September 1967. Several Derby vehicles have been preserved at 
Sandtoft and the East Anglia Transport Museum. The annual open-air concert 
at Darley Park is one of the biggest free concerts of its kind.[citation 
needed] It is one of many performances given throughout the year by Sinfonia 
ViVA, a professional chamber orchestra based in Derby. Derby Jazz caters 
for the jazz interest in the city.[34] In rock music, the blues singer-songwriter 
Kevin Coyne came from Derby, as does the three piece rock band LostAlone, 
and indie/glam rock band The Struts. The ska punk band Lightyear also hail 
from the city, naming their second album Chris Gentlemens Hairdresser and 
Railway Book Shop after a shop in Macklin Street. The pop band White Town 
is from Derby, and their video "Your Woman" features scenes from the city 
centre. Derby band The Beekeepers were signed to Beggars Banquet Records 
between 1993-1998. Singer Jamie East later went on to create entertainment 
website Holy Moly and present Big Brother's Bit on the Side One of Derby's 
bands is Anti-Pasti, whose debut 1981 album The Last Call reached the top 
40 in the UK album charts. The band reformed in 2012 and again with altered 
line up in 2014. A full-scale programme of orchestral and other concerts 
was presented by Derby LIVE at the Assembly Rooms, though this is currently 
closed following fire damage in March 2014; performances continue to take 
place at the smaller Guildhall Theatre, and in Derby Cathedral. The amateur 
classical music scene includes two choral societies, Derby Bach Choir and 
Derby Choral Union; smaller choirs including the Derwent Singers and Sitwell 
Singers; and Derby Concert Orchestra. Derby Chamber Music presents an annual 
series of chamber music concerts at Derby University's Multifaith Centre. 
A series of organ recitals is presented every summer at Derby Cathedral.[35] 
The folk-music scene includes the annual Derby Folk Festival. Other music 
venues in the city include The Venue on Abbey Street, The Hairy Dog on 
Becket Street, Ryans Bar in the St Peters Quarter, The Flowerpot on King's 
Street, and The Victoria Inn. The VoiceBox, a converted former industrial 
building near the centre of Derby, is a performance, teaching and rehearsal 
venue for a range of vocal and choral music. After a lengthy period of 
financial uncertainty, Derby Playhouse closed in February 2008. It was 
resurrected in September of that year after a new financing package was 
put together but forced to close again just two months later because of 
further financial problems. The lease was later bought by Derby University 
and the building was renamed Derby Theatre. Along with the Assembly Rooms 
and Guildhall Theatre, it was operated by Derby LIVE, the cultural arm 
of Derby City Council. In 2012 Derby University took over as sole operator 
of Derby Theatre; Sarah Brigham was appointed Artistic Director, and has 
been in post since January 2013. QUAD is a centre for art and film which 
opened in 2008. The building has two cinema screens showing independent 
and mainstream cinema, two gallery spaces housing contemporary visual arts, 
a digital studio, participation spaces, digital editing suites, artists 
studio and the BFI Mediatheque. QUAD organises the annual Derby Film Festival, 
and the FORMAT international photography festival, held every two years 
at various venues throughout the city. The Robert Ludlam Theatre, on the 
campus of Saint Benedict Catholic School and Performing Arts College, is 
a 270-seat venue with a programme of entertainment including dance, drama, 
art, music, theatre in the round, comedy, films, family entertainment, 
rock and pop events and workshops. The theatre company Oddsocks is based 
in Derby and stages productions in the city and the surrounding area, as 
well as travelling the country.[36] Déda, established in 1991, is the only 
dedicated dance house in the East Midlands region, acting as a local, regional 
and national resource for dance and aerial artists and contemporary circus. 
Déda houses a 124 capacity studio theatre, three dance studios, meeting 
room facilities and the CUBE café bar. It offers a weekly class programme 
and a year-round professional performance programme for children, young 
people and adults, and a community development programme. Déda now hosts 
a BA degree in Dance in partnership with the University of Derby.[37] Derby 
Book Festival, first held in 2015, takes place in June, with events throughout 
the city.[38] Derby Festé[39] is a weekend street arts festival held at 
the end of September every year. The first Six Streets Arts trail was in 
June 2012,[40] took place again in 2013 and will now be a biennial event. 
It includes strong input from the local History Network [41] which was 
awarded a Heritage Lottery grant to pursue its work on marking the 100th 
anniversary of World War 1. John Dexter the theatre director and the actor 
Alan Bates were from Derby. John Osborne wrote his play Look Back in Anger 
in 1956 while living in Derby and working at Derby Playhouse[42] Derby 
County, the city's football team, were FA Cup winners in 1946, Football 
League champions in 1972 and again in 1975. They are members of the Football 
League Championship. They have played at Pride Park Stadium since 1997, 
having been previously based at the Baseball Ground, a stadium originally 
built in 1890 to house Derby's short-lived baseball team (one notable baseball 
player and famous footballer was the Derby legend Steve Bloomer). Derby 
County moved there in 1895 after the baseball team folded. Former Derby 
County managers include Brian Clough, Arthur Cox, Jim Smith, John Gregory 
and George Burley. Former players include Colin Todd, Roy McFarland (who 
both later had brief and unsuccessful stints as manager at the club), Dave 
Mackay, Peter Shilton, Dean Saunders, Craig Short, Marco Gabbiadini, Horacio 
Carbonari, Steve Bloomer and Tom Huddlestone. The club's most recent spell 
as a top division (FA Premier League) club ended in May 2008 after just 
one season, during which the club won just one out of 38 league games and 
finished with just 11 points, the lowest in the history of the Premier 
League. There are three senior non-league football clubs based in the city. 
Mickleover Sports play at Station Road, Mickleover and are members of the 
EvoStik Northern Premier League (the seventh level of the English football 
league system). Graham Street Prims and Borrowash Victoria are both members 
of the East Midlands Counties League (level ten) and play on adjacent grounds 
at the Asterdale complex in Spondon. Derbyshire County Cricket Club are 
based at the County Ground in Derby and play almost all home matches there, 
although matches at Chesterfield were re-introduced in 2006. One of the 
designated first class county sides, they have won the County Championship 
once, in 1936. Derby has clubs in both codes of rugby. In rugby union, 
Derby RFC play in Midlands Division One East (the sixth level of English 
rugby union) at their Haslams Lane ground. Rugby league team Derby City 
RLFC were formed in 1990 and compete in the Midlands Premier Division of 
the National Rugby League Conference. From 2008 they are ground sharing 
with Derby RFC at Haslams Lane. The city is represented in the English 
Basketball League Division One by Derby Trailblazers, who play at the Moorways 
Sports Centre. They were formed in 2002 following the demise of British 
Basketball League side Derby Storm. Team Derby, based at Derby Arena, won 
the inaugural National Badminton League title in 2014–15. The Arena, opened 
in 2015, also contains a velodrome that has hosted the Revolution cycling 
series. Local industrialist Francis Ley introduced baseball to the town 
in the late 19th century, and built a stadium near the town centre. The 
attempt to establish baseball in Derby was unsuccessful, but the stadium 
survived for some 100 years afterwards as the home of Derby County Football 
Club. It was demolished in 2003, six years after County's move to Pride 
Park. Professional golfer Melissa Reid was born in Derby in 1987. She plays 
on the Ladies European Tour,[43] and was a member of the victorious European 
Team in the 2011 Solheim Cup. Arthur Keily the marathon runner and Olympian 
was born in Derbyshire in 1921 and has lived his whole life in Derby. In 
Rome in 1960 he broke the English Olympic record, recording a time of 2 
hours 27 mins.[44][45] Derby Arboretum, donated to the town by local philanthropist 
Joseph Strutt in 1840, was the first planned urban public park in the country. 
Although it suffered from neglect in the 1990s, it has been renovated. 
It has been claimed to have been one of the inspirations for Central Park 
in New York.[46] Markeaton Park is Derby's most used leisure facility.[47] 
It is the venue for the city council's annual Guy Fawkes Night firework 
display and contains its own light railway. Other major parks in the city 
include Allestree Park, Darley Park, Chaddesden Park, Alvaston Park, Normanton 
Park and Osmaston Park. Derby is believed to be one of the country's highest, 
if not the highest, ranking cities for parkland per capita. Darley and 
Derwent Parks lie immediately north of the city centre and are home to 
owls, kingfishers and other wildlife.[citation needed] Derby Rowing Club 
and Derwent Rowing Club are located on the banks of the river, where is 
also a riverside walk and cycle path. There are four museums: Derby Museum 
and Art Gallery; Pickford's House Museum; The Silk Mill and The Royal Crown 
Derby Museum. Shopping in central Derby is divided into three main areas. 
These are the Cathedral Quarter, the St Peters Quarter and the Intu Derby 
shopping centre. The Cathedral Quarter was Derby's first BID (Business 
Improvement District), and includes a large range of shops, boutiques, 
coffee shops and restaurants. It is focused around the Cathedral and the 
area around Irongate and Sadler Gate. It includes the Market place, the 
Guildhall and Assembly rooms along with the City Museum and the Silk Mill 
industrial museum. The St Peters Quarter is Derby's second Business Improvement 
district brought into effect in the summer of 2011. Its boundary with the 
Cathedral Quarter follows Victoria Street, beneath which flows the underground 
course of the Markeaton Brook. The quarter boasts a diverse range of retail 
shops many of them, in Green Lane, Babington Lane, Osmaston Road and elsewhere, 
independent traders. St Peters Street, London Road and East Street also 
includes a large choice of National retailers along with pubs, restaurants, 
banks and offices. The quarter includes the historic St Peters church and, 
on St Peters Churchyard, the Ancient Derby School building. Nearby also 
is the Old Courthouse and several other notable buildings. At the eastern 
end of the quarter is the bus station along with the Hilton Hotel and Holiday 
Inn, part of the prestigious Riverlights Development on the banks of the 
Derwent. Intu Derby is the city's main indoor shopping centre. It opened 
in 2007 as Westfield Derby after extension work costing £340 million, subsequently 
being sold to Intu in March 2014.[48] It contains a food court and a 12-screen 
cinema (Showcase – Cinema De Lux) which was opened in May 2008. The development 
was controversial and local opponents accuse it of drawing trade away from 
the older parts of the city centre where independent shops are located. 
Some of these experienced a downturn in trade and some have ceased trading 
since the development opened leading to the "Lanes" project which eventually 
became the second BID and the formation of St Peters Quarter. In the centre 
itself, a combination of high rents and rising rates have made things difficult 
for smaller traders.[49] The Friar Gate area contains clubs and bars, making 
it the centre of Derby's nightlife. Derby is also well provided with pubs 
and is renowned for its large amount of real ale outlets. The oldest pub 
is the Grade II listed Ye Olde Dolphin Inne, dating from the late 16th 
century.[50] The Kingsway Retail Park is located just outside the main 
city, off the A38. The Wyvern Way Retail Park is located just off the A52, 
by the pride park business park. The Meteor centre contains a selection 
of retailers. Like most of the UK, Derby operates a non-selective primary 
and secondary education system with no middle schools. Pupils attend infant 
and junior school (often in a combined primary school) before moving onto 
a secondary school. Many of the secondary schools have sixth forms, allowing 
pupils to optionally take A Levels after the end of compulsory education. 
For those who want to stay in education but leave school, the large Derby 
College provides post-16 courses for school leavers, apprentices and employer 
related training. It has two main campuses the Joseph Wright Centre in 
the centre of Derby, where its A Level courses are based. And the historical 
Derby Roundhouse which is the college's vocational training hub, providing 
a centre for apprenticeships such as engineering, catering and hair & beauty. 
The college also works in partnership with schools across the county to 
provide vocational training opportunities for students aged 14 upwards. 
Training for companies is undertaken through its Corporate College. Inside 
the state sector, there are 15 secondary schools. These are; Allestree 
Woodlands School, Bemrose School, Chellaston Academy, City of Derby Academy, 
da Vinci Community College, Derby Manufacturing UTC, Derby Moor Community 
Sports College, Derby Pride Academy, Landau Forte College, Lees Brook Community 
School, Littleover Community School, Merrill Academy, Murray Park School, 
Noel-Baker School, Saint Benedict Catholic Voluntary Academy and West Park 
School. Outside the state sector, there are three fee-paying independent 
schools. Derby Grammar School was founded in 1994 and was for boys only, 
until 2007, when they accepted girls into the sixth form for the first 
time. They aim to continue the work and traditions of the former Derby 
School, which closed in 1989, one of the oldest schools in England.[citation 
needed] Derby High School is for girls-only at secondary level and for 
boys at primary level. Derby has special needs establishments including 
Ivy House School located at the Derby Moor Community Sports College (which 
takes pupils from nursery to sixth form) and the Light House which is a 
respite facility for children and parents. Allestree Woodlands School have 
a Hearing Impaired department, and Saint Benedict have an Enhanced Resource 
Base for pupils to access specialised support within mainstream schooling. 
There also a number of alternative provision schools, including Derby Pride 
Academy. The University of Derby has its main campus on Kedleston Road. 
There is another campus in north Derbyshire at Buxton. In 2003 the University 
of Nottingham opened a graduate entry medical school based at Royal Derby 
Hospital. The university also has its School of Nursing and Midwifery located 
there, having moved from its former home at London Road Community Hospital 
in mid-2012. The Derby Telegraph (formerly the Derby Evening Telegraph) 
is the city's daily newspaper. Crime writer Richard Cox set his first book 
around his own experience as a Derby Telegraph reporter in the 1970s.[51] 
The Derby Trader was a free weekly newspaper which is no longer in print. 
A local edition of the daily national freesheet Metro is distributed in 
the city centre every morning, although this only has a very small amount 
of local content.[citation needed] BBC Radio Derby, the BBC's local station 
for Derbyshire and East Staffordshire, is based on St. Helen's Street in 
the city and offers local, national and international news, features, music 
and sports commentaries. It is available on 104.5 FM and 1116 AM, on 95.3 
FM in North and Mid Derbyshire and on 96.0 FM in the Buxton area, as well 
as being streamed on the internet. The BBC in Derby have their own local 
website for the area which provides news, travel and weather information, 
as well as other features. Capital East Midlands, is the biggest commercial 
radio station in the city, broadcasting to Derby on 102.8 FM from the transmitter 
at Drum Hill, just outside the city. It broadcasts a Contemporary Hit Radio 
(CHR) format, with Top 40 chart hits aimed at the city's under 35s. Derby's 
emblem is the Derby Ram, about which there is a folk song entitled "The 
Derby Ram". It is found in a number of places, most notably serving as 
the nickname of Derby County F.C.. The logo of the City Council's services 
is a stylised ram. Derby is twinned with Osnabrück in Germany. The partnership 
treaty between the two cities was signed on 17 February 1976.[52] The twinning 
agreement with Derby was in the historical Hall of Peace in Osnabrück's 
Rathaus (town hall). Every year, Derby and Osnabrück each appoint an envoy 
who spends twelve months in the twin city. The envoy promotes the exchange 
of ideas between the two cities and acts as an educational and information 
officer to increase awareness of the twinning scheme. The envoy gives talks 
to local societies and schools, finds pen friends and short term host families 
during work placements, works to assist groups who want to get involved 
in twinning by identifying and approaching possible counterparts and plans 
the annual mayweek trip. There is an annual exchange between the wind bands 
of John Port School, Etwall and its twin school Gymnasium Melle in Melle, 
Germany, District of Osnabrücker Land. An exchange was established in 2009 
between Allestree Woodlands School, and the Gymnasium Angelaschule in Osnabrück. 
This exchange was originally based on a drama-project of both schools in 
June 2009, which contained performances in both cities with over 1600 visitors. 
It is now a language and culture exchange between the two schools, run 
by the German department at Allestree Woodlands School. The exchange of 
envoys between two cities is very unusual. The envoy in Osnabrück changes 
every year and Osnabrück also sends envoys to Derby, Angers and Çanakkale. 
No other city in Germany participates in this exchange of envoys, and in 
Britain, only one other town, Wigan, receives and sends an envoy. In 2014, 
Derby became a sister-city with the Palestinian city of Hebron.[53] Coordinates: 
