Derek Nathaniel Bell (born December 11, 1968) is a former Major League 
Baseball player. Primarily a right fielder and center fielder, Bell batted 
from the right side and threw with his right hand. He is 6'2" tall, and 
during his playing career, he weighed 215 pounds. Bell is one of only eleven 
players to play in both the Little League World Series and the Major League 
World Series. In 1980 and 1981 Bell played for Belmont Heights Little League 
in Tampa, Florida, winning the US championship and losing to Taiwan in 
the world championship game both years. (Bell is also the only player to 
appear in the LLWS twice and later in the big-league World Series.) When 
he reached C. Leon King High School in Tampa, Bell attracted the attention 
of the Toronto Blue Jays. Toronto selected him in the second round of the 
1987 June draft, with the 49th overall pick. Bell signed with Toronto, 
and made his debut that same year in the New York–Penn League. He emerged 
as a top prospect with the Myrtle Beach Blue Jays the next year, when he 
was named to the South Atlantic League All-Star team. Bell's .344 batting 
average earned him the league batting title, and he also displayed substantial 
power, hitting 29 doubles, five triples, and 12 home runs in only 352 at 
bats. His success helped him earn a late-season promotion to class AA. 
Although he continued to advance, Bell struggled for the next two seasons, 
batting .242 at AA in 1989 and .261 at AAA the next year, but drawing walks 
at an extremely low rate. Despite being younger than most players in those 
leagues, he re-emerged as a top prospect in 1991, repeating AAA with the 
Syracuse Chiefs. That year, Bell batted .346 with 22 doubles, 12 triples, 
13 home runs, 57 walks, and 29 stolen bases. Bell made the International 
League All-Star team and won the International League Most Valuable Player 
award, and Baseball America magazine named him the Minor League Player 
of the Year. Bell made his Major League debut on June 28, 1991, starting 
in left field in a 3-1 loss to the Seattle Mariners.[1] Bell was slated 
to be the Jays' starting left fielder in 1992, but broke his wrist in the 
second game of the year and ultimately appeared in only 61 games that year 
as the Blue Jays' fourth outfielder.[2] Toronto won its division that year 
and advanced to the World Series, defeating the Atlanta Braves in six games 
to capture its first championship. On Fan Appreciation Day in 1992, the 
team played a trick on Bell. During a break between innings, they announced 
that a vehicle would be given to a lucky fan, and then outfielder Joe Carter 
(accompanied by Dave Winfield) drove Bell's green jeep out onto the field.[3] 
Shortly before the beginning of the 1993 season, the Blue Jays traded Bell 
and Stoney Briggs to the San Diego Padres, in exchange for veteran outfielder 
Darrin Jackson. It was in San Diego where Bell first established himself 
as an everyday player. He was still somewhat unrefined as a player, batting 
.262 and striking out more than five times as often as he walked in 1994, 
but he also displayed a good base of pure skills by hitting 21 home runs 
and stealing 26 bases. Bell improved his batting average to .311 in 1994, 
despite off-the-field distractions. On April 25, Bell and pitcher Scott 
Sanders were arrested in New York City before a game against the New York 
Mets, as police claimed that the pair had offered undercover policewomen 
$20 in exchange for oral sex.[4] The charges were ultimately dropped on 
October 25.[5] The incident was an embarrassment to the Padres, however, 
and on December 28, Bell was part of a 12-player trade between the Padres 
and the Houston Astros. Along with Bell, the Padres sent Doug Brocail, 
Ricky Gutiérrez, Pedro A. Martínez, Phil Plantier, and Craig Shipley to 
Houston, receiving in return Ken Caminiti, Andújar Cedeño, Steve Finley, 
Roberto Petagine, Brian Williams, and Sean Fesh. After Bell joined the 
Houston Astros, his last name, hitting skills and speed positioned him 
in Houston's vaunted lineup of "Killer B's," established by Jeff Bagwell 
and Craig Biggio. This group of players helped lead the franchise to a 
new level of success that included a string of playoff appearances and 
second-place finishes that commenced in the 1990s.[6] [7] Bell went on 
to enjoy one of the finest seasons of his career in 1995, with a .334 batting 
average that was fourth-highest in the league. He drew consideration in 
the Most Valuable Player Award (MVP) voting, placing fourteenth place with 
12 points. The team won three straight National League Central division 
championships from 1997−99. Bell's year-to-year performance varied considerably, 
but he peaked in 1998. That season, he batted .314 with 41 doubles and 
22 home runs, good for an OPS of .855 as the Astos won a franchise-record 
102 games. After the Killer B's had gained national attention, journalist 
Dayn Perry jocosely noted in 1999 that the Astros, "in pursuit of arcane 
history, used eight players whose last names began with 'B.'"[7] including 
Bagwell, Paul Bako, Glen Barker, Bell, Sean Bergman, Lance Berkman, Biggio, 
and Tim Bogar.[8] However, Bell's performance slipped substantially that 
year, and his .236 batting average and .656 OPS made him considered to 
be one of the worst everyday players in the league. He compounded the problem 
in an ill-timed confrontation with manager Larry Dierker on July 22. Dierker 
had returned to the field that day after having recovered from a near-fatal 
grand mal seizure during a game on June 13 and subsequent emergency brain 
surgery. Bell was upset that Dierker had moved him from second to sixth 
in the batting order, ranting after the game that "it's a slap in the face 
to be dropped to the sixth spot. I'm to the point now that I feel like 
I'm not wanted."[9] Many Astros fans were upset that Bell had chosen to 
criticize Dierker on a day honoring him, and Dierker ultimately pulled 
Bell from the starting lineup later that season. At that point, the Astros 
viewed Bell as an expensive liability, and on December 23, they traded 
him and star pitcher Mike Hampton to the New York Mets for Roger Cedeño, 
Octavio Dotel, and Kyle Kessel. When assembling this trade, the Astros 
let it be known that they would not trade Hampton unless a trade partner 
was willing to also take Bell in the deal.[4] Bell was unfazed by the deal. 
When informed that he'd been traded to the Mets, he said, "Christmas came 
early for me. I'm very happy. I told my agent I'm going to run, I'm so 
excited."[4] With Bell as their starting right fielder, the Mets made the 
playoffs as the National League Wild Card. On August 22, Bell got the opportunity 
to pitch the eighth inning of a blowout against the Padres. His first pitch, 
which Bell described as an eephus pitch,[10] was clocked at 47 MPH, and 
he ultimately surrendered three hits and three walks, giving up four earned 
runs and one unearned run (resulting from an error by catcher Todd Pratt).[11] 
Bell sprained his ankle during the first game of the NLDS, and missed the 
remainder of the playoffs. The Mets defeated the San Francisco Giants in 
the NLDS and the St. Louis Cardinals in the NLCS, but were defeated in 
five games by the New York Yankees in the World Series. Following the 2000 
season, Bell's contract with the Mets expired and the team made no effort 
to retain his services. He later signed a two-year contract with the Pittsburgh 
Pirates in the offseason, following the World Series. In spring training 
2002, while with the Pirates, Bell, who had hit .173 the previous season, 
did not feel that he needed to prove he was worthy of a starting job. On 
March 18, Bell told reporters: Bell left the team on March 29, was released 
on March 31, and never played in the majors again. The Pirates ended up 
paying him $4.5 million not to play for them. Bell moved onto his yacht, 
Bell 14 (his name and uniform number), a 58-foot Sea Ray 580.[12] Pittsburgh 
Post-Gazette sports columnist Mark Madden summarized the incident with 
"Derek Bell becomes the ultimate Pirate: Lives on a boat and steals money."[13] 
On April 20, 2006, Derek Bell was charged with felony cocaine possession 
and possession of drug paraphernalia, after police found a warm crack pipe 
in the back seat of his car during a traffic stop.[14] He was arrested 
again on December 2, 2008, facing three counts of possession of drug paraphernalia 
and one count of failure to appear in court on another charge of possession 
