In baseball, the designated hitter rule is the common name for Major League 
Baseball Rule 5.11,[1] adopted by the American League in 1973. The rule 
allows teams to have one player, known as the designated hitter (abbreviated 
DH), to bat in place of the pitcher. Since 1973, most collegiate, amateur, 
and professional leagues have adopted the rule or some variant. MLB's National 
League and Nippon Professional Baseball's Central League are the most prominent 
professional leagues that do not use a designated hitter. In Major League 
Baseball, the designated hitter is a hitter who does not play a position, 
but instead fills in the batting order for the pitcher. The DH may only 
be used for the pitcher (and not any other position player), as stated 
in Rule 5.11. Use of the DH is optional, but must be determined prior to 
the start of the game. If a team does not begin a game with a DH, the pitcher 
(or a pinch-hitter) must bat for the entire game. The designated hitter 
may be replaced as DH only by a player who has not entered the game. If 
a pinch hitter bats for, or a pinch runner runs for, the DH, that pinch-hitter 
or pinch-runner becomes the DH. The designated hitter can be moved to a 
fielding position during the game. If the DH is moved to another position, 
his team forfeits the role of the designated hitter, and the pitcher or 
another player (the latter possible only in case of a multiple substitution) 
would bat in the spot of the position player replaced by the former DH. 
If the designated hitter is moved to pitcher, any subsequent pitcher (or 
pinch-hitter thereof) would bat should that spot in the batting order come 
up again (except for a further multiple substitution). Likewise, if a pinch-hitter 
bats for a non-pitcher, and then remains in the game as the pitcher, the 
team would forfeit the use of the DH for the remainder of the game, and 
the player who was DH would become a position player (or exit the game.) 
Unlike other positions, the DH is "locked" into the batting order. No multiple 
substitution may be made to alter the batting rotation of the DH. In other 
words, a double switch involving the DH and a position player is not legal. 
For example, if the DH is batting fourth and the catcher is batting eighth, 
the manager cannot replace both players so as to have the new catcher bat 
fourth and the new DH bat eighth. Once a team loses its DH under any of 
the scenarios discussed in the previous paragraph, the double switch becomes 
fully available, and may well be used via necessity, should the former 
DH be replaced in the lineup. In Major League Baseball, during interleague 
play, the application of the DH rule is determined by the identity of the 
home team, with the rules of the home team's league applying to both teams. 
If the game is played in an American League park, the designated hitter 
may be used; in a National League park, the pitcher must bat or else be 
replaced with a pinch-hitter. On June 12, 1997, San Francisco Giants outfielder 
Glenallen Hill became the first National League player to DH in a regular-season 
game, when the Giants met the American League's Texas Rangers at The Ballpark 
in Arlington in interleague play.[2] At first, the DH rule was not applied 
to the World Series. From 1973 to 1975, all World Series games were played 
under National League rules, with no DH and pitchers batting. For 1976, 
it was decided the DH rule would apply to all games in a World Series, 
regardless of venue, but only in even-numbered years. Cincinnati Reds first 
baseman Dan Driessen became the first National League player to act as 
a DH in any capacity (regular season or postseason) when he was listed 
as the DH in the first game (he was the DH in all four Series games that 
year). This practice lasted through 1985. Beginning in 1986, the DH rule 
was used in games played in the stadium of the American League representative. 
There was initially no DH in the All-Star Game. Beginning in 1989, the 
rule was applied only to games played in American League stadiums.[3] During 
this era, if the All-Star Game was scheduled for an American League stadium, 
fans would vote in the DH for the American League's starting lineup, while 
the National League's manager decided that league's starting DH. Since 
2010, the designated hitter has always been used by both teams regardless 
of where the game is played.[4] In spring training games, the home team 
chooses whether the designated hitter is used. Occasionally National League 
teams opt to use the designated hitter, usually when a player is recovering 
from an injury. The rationale for the designated hitter rule arose comparatively 
early in the history of professional baseball. It was observed that, with 
a few exceptions — most notably Babe Ruth, who began his career as a pitcher 
with the Boston Red Sox — pitchers are usually selected for the quality 
of their pitching, not their hitting, and that most pitchers were weak 
hitters who had to be batted ninth in the batting order and pinch-hit for 
late in games when their team was trailing. The designated hitter idea 
was raised by Philadelphia Athletics manager Connie Mack in 1906,[5] though 
he was not the first to propose it. The rumors were that he grew weary 
of watching Eddie Plank and Charles Bender flail at pitches when at bat. 
Mack's proposal received little support and was even lambasted by the press 
as "wrong theoretically". The notion did not die. In the late 1920s, National 
League president John Heydler made a number of attempts to introduce a 
10th-man designated hitter as a way to speed up the game, and almost convinced 
National League clubs to agree to try it during spring training in 1929.[5] 
However, momentum to implement the DH did not pick up until the pitching 
dominance of the late 1960s. In 1968, Denny McLain won 31 games and Bob 
Gibson had a 1.12 ERA, while Carl Yastrzemski led the American League in 
hitting with a .301 average. After the season, the rules were changed to 
lower the mound from 15 to 10 inches and change the upper limit of the 
strike zone from the top of a batter's shoulders to his armpits. In addition, 
in 1969 spring training, both the American League and National League agreed 
to try the designated pinch hitter (DPH), but they did not agree on the 
implementation. Most NL teams chose not to participate. On March 6, 1969, 
two games utilized the new DPH rule for the very first time. Two newly 
formed expansion teams, the Montreal Expos and the Kansas City Royals, 
would participate in one such game, and the New York Yankees and Washington 
Senators in the other. On March 26, 1969, Major League Baseball nixed the 
idea for the time being. Like other experimental baseball rule changes 
of the 1960s and '70s, the DH was embraced by Oakland A's owner Charlie 
O. Finley. On January 11, 1973, Finley and the other American League owners 
voted 8–4 to approve the designated hitter for a three-year trial run.[5] 
On April 6, 1973, Ron Blomberg of the New York Yankees became the first 
designated hitter in Major League Baseball history, facing Boston Red Sox 
right-handed pitcher Luis Tiant in his first plate appearance. "Boomer" 
Blomberg was walked.[6] The result of the first season of the DH was that 
the American League posted a higher batting average than the National League, 
something which has remained consistent to this day. In response to increases 
in American League attendance because of the designated hitter, the National 
League held a yes/no vote on August 13, 1980, to determine whether or not 
the league would adopt the designated hitter. A simple majority of the 
12 member teams was necessary to pass the rule, and the measure was expected 
to pass. However, when the teams were informed that the rule would not 
come into effect until the 1982 season, Philadelphia Phillies vice president 
Bill Giles was unsure of how the team owner, Ruly Carpenter, wanted him 
to vote. Unable to contact Carpenter, who was on a fishing trip, Giles 
was forced to abstain from voting. Prior to the meeting, Harding Peterson, 
general manager for the Pittsburgh Pirates, was told to side with the Phillies. 
The final tally was four teams voting for the DH (Atlanta Braves, New York 
Mets, St. Louis Cardinals, and San Diego Padres), five votes against (Chicago 
Cubs, Cincinnati Reds, Los Angeles Dodgers, Montreal Expos, and San Francisco 
Giants), and three abstentions (Philadelphia Phillies, Pittsburgh Pirates, 
and Houston Astros). Five days after that meeting, the Cardinals fired 
their general manager, John Clairborne, who was the leading proponent for 
the adoption of the DH rule, and the National League has not held another 
vote on the issue.[7] As time passed, the designated hitter rule has ended 
up offering American League managers multiple strategic options in setting 
their teams' lineups: they can rotate the DH role among part-time players 
(for example, using a left-handed batter against a right-handed pitcher 
and vice versa) or they can employ a full-time designated hitter against 
all pitchers. It also allows them to give a healthy everyday player a partial 
day off, or to give an injured player the opportunity to bat without exposing 
him to re-injury while playing in the field. In recent years, full-time 
DHs have become less common, and the position has been used to give players 
a partial off-day, allowing them to bat but rest while the other team is 
batting. This option comes in very handy when a team's lineup includes 
several older players. The 2012 Yankees, for example, rotated five players 
through the DH spot during the season, all of them over 34 years old.[8] 
Only a handful of players compile over 400 at-bats as a DH each year. With 
the Houston Astros having moved to the American League for the 2013 MLB 
season, which requires interleague play season-round (as well as the Astros 
to start using a DH full-time), there is debate within MLB to unify the 
rules of the two leagues, with either the American League returning to 
its pre-1973 rules and have the pitcher hit, like the National League or 
the National League adopting the DH.[9] In January 2016, MLB Commissioner 
Rob Manfred indicated that the National League may adopt the DH for the 
2017 season when a new collective bargaining agreement is created after 
the current one expires on December 31, 2016.[10] However, he has since 
backtracked on this statement to say that he does not see unification coming 
any time soon - and certainly not in 2017.[11] Major League Baseball presents 
an annual award to the most outstanding designated hitter of the season, 
called the Edgar Martínez Award. Renamed for the former Seattle Mariners 
DH after his retirement in 2004, the Outstanding DH Award was introduced 
in 1973 and has been handed out every season since, except 1994 due to 
a player's strike. Notable winners include Martínez (five times) and David 
Ortiz (seven times, five consecutively). DHs have generally not made much 
impact on the Major League Baseball Most Valuable Player Award or National 
Baseball Hall of Fame voting, because of the relative rareness of the full-time 
DH and the fact that the DH does not contribute on defense. During the 
1993 season Paul Molitor became the first player to win the World Series 
Most Valuable Player award while playing 137 of 160 games (85.63%) as a 
designated hitter; David Ortiz did the same in 2013. Ortiz was also the 
first designated hitter to win the ALCS MVP in 2004. Among Hall of Famers, 
Paul Molitor and Jim Rice were, until 2014, the only inductees to even 
have played at least 25% of their games at DH. With the election of Frank 
Thomas on January 8, 2014, he becomes the first Hall of Famer to play the 
majority of his games at DH. Edgar Martínez is currently on the ballot 
(received 43.4% of votes in 2016). There is considerable debate over whether 
or not the designated hitter rule should be removed,[12][13] while some 
[12] have argued that the National League should adopt it. On the other 
hand, there are also fans who enjoy the fact that the American and National 
Leagues use different rules. Two generations of fans of American League 
teams have grown up with the designated hitter rule being in place, so 
some may consider the designated hitter to be as much a traditional part 
of baseball as the pitcher taking his turn at bat is for fans of National 
League teams. Critics often argue that use of the designated hitter introduces 
an asymmetry to the game by separating players into classes, creating offensive 
and defensive specialization more akin to American football. Opponents 
of the rule believe it effectively separates pitchers, other fielders, 
and designated hitters into separate roles that never cross, possibly causing 
issues with promoting 'batting cage' players whose scope of experience 
is extremely limited. However, when the pitcher bats alongside everyone 
else, all nine players must take turns at the plate and in the field, and 
the hybridization of roles requires that everyone knows other roles in 
addition to their own. The designated hitter rule also changes managerial 
strategy in late innings. In the National League, a manager must decide 
when to let a pitcher bat or remove him, as well as whom to pinch-hit with 
and where or if that player should take the field afterward. When the decision 
to remove a pitcher is made, the manager may also elect to double switch, 
delaying the new pitcher's turn at bat. Advocates of the designated hitter[12][13] 
point to the fact that it has extended many careers, and, in a few cases, 
created long, productive careers for players who are weak fielders or have 
a history of injuries, such as Edgar Martínez and David Ortiz. Hall of 
Fame members George Brett, Carl Yastrzemski, and Paul Molitor continued 
their careers longer than they ordinarily would have without the rule.[14] 
Barry Bonds, who spent his entire career in the National League and actually 
won eight Gold Gloves earlier in his career, was used strictly as a DH 
later in his career when the San Francisco Giants played away interleague 
games due to his poor fielding.[15] Some believe that extending careers 
of older players is less of an advantage and more of a disadvantage, filling 
spots that otherwise may have been taken by younger players who end up 
not finding a place in the major leagues. Interleague play has added a 
new wrinkle to the controversy. Some feel that it is not fair to ask an 
AL team to play without their DH when their roster has not been set up 
to do so, or on the other hand, to ask an NL team to use a DH when they 
may not have an appropriate player. Major League Baseball Commissioner 
Bud Selig once proposed that the road team's rules should be followed for 
interleague games in order to combat this advantage for the home team, 
but the idea has not received traction.[16] The decline of pitcher Chien-Ming 
Wang due to an interleague game injury has been cited in support of the 
designated hitter. On June 15, 2008, Wang was taken out of an interleague 
game versus the Houston Astros due to a right foot injury he sustained 
while running the bases, something he was not used to doing, since pitchers 
do not bat in the American League. Wang was diagnosed with a torn Lisfranc 
ligament and a partial tear of the peroneus longus of the right foot. The 
cast was removed on July 29, but the extensive rehabilitation process prevented 
Wang from being an effective pitcher at the major league level since. Yankees' 
part-owner Hank Steinbrenner showed frustration with pitchers having to 
bat in the National League and suggested that the League "join the modern 
age".[17] Among minor league baseball teams, Rookie and Single-A level 
leagues use the DH in all games. At the Double-A and Triple-A level, when 
both teams are National League affiliates, pitchers may bat. In the Pacific 
Coast League, pitchers only hit when both clubs are NL affiliates and both 
clubs agree to have their pitchers hit. The reason for the difference is 
that as players get closer to reaching the majors, teams prefer to have 
the rules mimic, as closely as possible, those of the major league teams 
for which the players may soon be playing.[18] The DH is used in most professional 
baseball leagues around the world. One notable exception is the Central 
League of Japan, where pitchers bat as they do in the National League. 
Japan's Pacific League adopted the designated hitter in 1975. When teams 
from different leagues play against each other in the Japan Series or interleague 
games, the DH rule is adopted if the Pacific League's team hosts the game. 
The DH rule is used in the Japanese minor leagues. The primary difference 
between the DH in the professional and amateur games is that the DH may 
bat in place of one player in any position in most amateur baseball leagues 
such as those that use National Federation of State High School Associations 
(NFHS) rules. Most high school coaches use a designated hitter in place 
of the weakest hitter in the lineup, if they use one at all. In amateur 
baseball, many pitchers are also good hitters and will often play another 
position (or even DH) when not pitching. Professional pitchers usually 
focus exclusively on improving their pitching, thus their batting skills 
often deteriorate compared to their teammates. One notable exception to 
the NFHS designated hitter rule in youth baseball is American Legion baseball. 
Legion rules exactly follow those prescribed in the Official Baseball Rules, 
which allow the DH only to bat for the pitcher. Prior to 1995, the use 
of the DH was not allowed in Legion baseball. Japanese high school baseball 
is one of the few amateur baseball leagues in the world that has never 
used the designated hitter rule at all. In high school baseball in South 
Korea, the rule has been adopted since 2004. In college baseball, NCAA 
rules state that the designated hitter must hit for the pitcher, but in 
many instances the pitcher is also a good hitter, and the coach may elect 
to let the pitcher bat in the lineup. If the pitcher opts to bat for himself, 
he is treated as two separate positions — a pitcher and a designated hitter 
(abbreviated P/DH on the lineup card) — and may be substituted for as such 
(i.e. if he is removed as the pitcher, he may remain as the designated 
hitter and vice versa). However, if a player who starts a game as a P/DH 
is relieved as the starting pitcher, he may not return to the mound even 
if he remains in the game as the DH, and he may not play any other defensive 
position after being relieved as the pitcher. Conversely, a player who 
begins the game as the DH, but not as the pitcher, may come into the game 
as a reliever and remain as the DH (in effect becoming a P/DH), be relieved 
on the mound later in the game but continue to bat as the DH. In Little 
League Baseball, the DH is not used. However, a league may adopt a rule 
which requires all players present and able to play to be listed in the 
batting order (such that the order contains more than nine players), and 
thus all players will have a turn to bat even when they are not assigned 
