The Detroit Wolverines were a 19th-century baseball team that played in 
the National League from 1881 to 1888 in the city of Detroit, Michigan. 
In total, they won 426 games and lost 437, taking their lone pennant (and 
World Series) in 1887. The team was disbanded following the 1888 season. 
Founded at the suggestion of Detroit mayor William G. Thompson, the Wolverines 
played the first game of major league baseball in Detroit on May 2, 1881, 
in front of 1,286 fans. Their home field was called Recreation Park, and 
it consisted of a wooden grandstand located between Brady Street and Willis 
Avenue. This stadium was demolished in 1894, though its location is indicated 
by a historical marker in what was once left field. The name of the ball 
club derives from Michigan being known as "The Wolverine State". The team 
name "Wolverines" is now primarily associated with University of Michigan 
sports. Though they folded after only eight seasons, the Wolverines occupy 
an important place in baseball history. On September 6, 1883, they conceded 
18 runs in a single inning against the Chicago White Stockings, the most 
ever in MLB. In 1885, new owner Frederick Kimball Stearns began spending 
heavily in an attempt to create a 'super-team' by buying high-priced players. 
Most notably, he purchased the entire Buffalo Bisons franchise that August, 
to secure the services of its stars: Dan Brouthers, Jack Rowe, Hardy Richardson, 
and Deacon White, the so-called "Big Four". This strategy quickly met resistance 
from his fellow owners, who changed the league's rules governing the splitting 
of gate receipts, reducing the visiting team's maximum share to $125 per 
game. Detroit was not yet the Motor City, and its population was too small 
to support a highly paid team. The Wolverines' home gate receipts were 
not sufficient to sustain their payroll, and Stearns was forced to sell 
his stars to other clubs. The Wolverines' most successful season came in 
1887, when they were crowned as the champion of the National League with 
a record of 79 wins and 45 losses. After the season, they defeated the 
St. Louis Browns, champion of the rival American Association, in a series 
of exhibition matches, winning ten of the fifteen games played. These games 
were a predecessor to the modern World Series, which did not begin until 
1903. Due to heavy financial losses, the team was disbanded following the 
1888 season. Three Detroit players hit for the cycle: George Wood on June 
13, 1885, Mox McQuery on September 28, 1885, and Jack Rowe on August 21, 
1886. Brouthers, Hanlon, White, and Thompson are members of the Baseball 
