Devon Markes Whyte[1] (formerly and commonly known as Devon White, born 
December 29, 1962), nicknamed "Devo", is a former Major League Baseball 
center fielder best known for his defensive ability at that position. Born 
as Devon Whyte in Kingston, Jamaica, his family immigrated to the United 
States when he was nine years old. However, the paperwork had their family 
name misspelled as "White". His last name was legally changed back to its 
original spelling in 2003 at the behest of his children, but throughout 
his baseball playing career, he was known as "Devon White" and continues 
to sign autographs with that spelling.[1] His daughter, Davellyn Whyte, 
played two seasons of professional basketball in the WNBA. White attended 
Park West High School in Manhattan, New York City. White was drafted by 
the California Angels in the 6th round of the 1981 draft. He made his major 
league debut in the late stages of the 1985 season for California, but 
he did not establish himself as a major leaguer until 1987, when he played 
a full season and hit with power and ran the basepaths with speed. In fact, 
he hit 24 home runs and stole 32 bases that season. In 1988, only his second 
full season, he won his first of seven Gold Gloves. On September 9, 1989, 
he became one of the few players in baseball history to get on first base 
then score by stealing second base, third base, and home.[2] On December 
2, 1990, he was traded with Willie Fraser and Marcus Moore to the Toronto 
Blue Jays for Junior Félix and Luis Sojo. White won two World Series and 
five Gold Gloves with the Toronto Blue Jays. With a .336 batting average 
in his post-season career with the Blue Jays, compared to a .270 regular 
season average with Toronto, White consistently upped his game to help 
Toronto reach playoff success. In Game 3 of the 1992 World Series against 
the Atlanta Braves, White was the central part of one of the most famous 
plays in World Series history. With David Justice batting and runners on 
first and second base, Justice hit a fly ball which White chased down and 
caught while jumping into the wall. White then threw the ball to second 
baseman Roberto Alomar who threw to John Olerud at first to try to double 
up Terry Pendleton, but Pendleton had already been called out for running 
past Deion Sanders. Olerud promptly threw the ball to third baseman Kelly 
Gruber who chased down Sanders, diving and clipping him on the heel with 
his glove. However the umpire, Bob Davidson, did not see the tag, and called 
Sanders safe, which cost the Jays the second triple play in World Series 
history.[3] After the game, Davidson watched the replay and admitted he 
missed the call. Many people who saw White's famous catch and throw have 
positively compared it to Willie Mays' famous catch in Game 1 of the 1954 
World Series, often claiming that White's effort was more impressive. After 
the 1995 season, White signed with the Florida Marlins and won another 
World Series in 1997, despite a poor performance — he only hit .215 in 
the playoffs that year. He later played with the Arizona Diamondbacks, 
the Los Angeles Dodgers, and the Milwaukee Brewers before retiring in 2002. 
