Dick Wagner (October 19, 1927 – October 5, 2006) was a sports, entertainment, 
and broadcasting executive who spent twenty-five years in Major League 
Baseball. He was best known for running the Cincinnati Reds during the 
1970s and the Houston Astros during the 1980s. Born in Central City, Nebraska, 
Wagner's career in professional baseball began at a young age. In 1947, 
only 19 and fresh out of the Navy, he took a position as business manager 
of a Class D Georgia–Florida League team, a Detroit Tigers affiliate. In 
a prosperous era for the minor leagues, Wagner steadily worked his way 
up through leagues and classifications, shifting at one point to the Pittsburgh 
Pirates chain and working there under the tutelage of Branch Rickey. He 
held minor league administrative posts in Flint, Michigan; Miami, Florida; 
San Antonio, Texas; Hutchinson, Kansas; and Lincoln, Nebraska. At Lincoln, 
in 1958, he was named Top Minor League Executive of the Year by the Sporting 
News. Shifting career tracks in 1959, Wagner took a position as General 
Manager of Pershing Auditorium in Lincoln, Nebraska. In the next decade, 
he held posts in entertainment and broadcasting. He was an executive for 
Ice Capades in Hollywood, California. In Salina, Kansas, Wagner ran radio 
station KSAL. He also served as General Manager of The Forum in Inglewood, 
California, home of the Los Angeles Lakers and Kings. From the Forum, he 
returned to major league baseball, where he spent the remaining balance 
of his working years. After several years as Director of Promotions with 
the St. Louis Cardinals under Bob Howsam, Wagner followed Howsam to the 
Cincinnati Reds in 1967. He spent the next fifteen years in the front office 
during that team's successful run as "The Big Red Machine", beginning by 
supervising business affairs for the Reds, helping to pioneer, develop 
and refine marketing and promotional efforts that resulted in a series 
of attendance records. Later, he added duties on the player personnel side 
and in 1978 was made President and General Manager of the team. During 
the years Wagner was part of the organization, the Reds won consecutive 
World Series titles in 1975 and 1976, in addition to four league flags 
and six division titles. During his Cincinnati years, he resided in Glendale, 
Ohio, a greater Cincinnati suburb. He continued as President and General 
Manager until he was fired by the Reds on July 11, 1983. By that time "Robert 
T. Wag" had dismantled the Big Red Machine by, among other things, allowing 
Pete Rose to leave as a free agent to the Phillies. Wagner innovated the 
practice of Major League teams wearing green-trimmed uniforms on March 
17 in honor of St. Patrick's Day. Wagner was the general manager of the 
Reds, and had green versions of the Reds' uniforms made. The Reds hosted 
the New York Yankees at Al Lopez Field on March 17, 1978. This was the 
first time a major league team wore green trimmed uniforms on March 17, 
a practice adopted in subsequent years by multiple major league teams on 
St. Patrick's Day.[1] Wagner was named general manager of the Houston Astros 
in September of 1983 and continued the solidification of the already successful 
Houston team. His Astros won the 1986 National League West championship, 
clinching the division with a September 25 no-hitter by team pitching ace 
Mike Scott. Wagner resigned as general manager in 1987, following a power 
struggle with team manager Hal Lanier. In 1988, MLB Commissioner Peter 
Ueberroth and American League President Bobby Brown named Wagner a Special 
Assistant. Throughout the next decade, he served Brown and a succession 
of Commissioners as a top-level aide. Wagner retired to Phoenix, Arizona 
with his wife Gloria. There he served on the board of the Western Art Associates 
of the Phoenix Art Museum and as a vice-president of the Association of 
Professional Ball Players of America. He was involved in a car accident 
in 1999 that resulted in trauma and injuries that required attention for 
