Richard Alan "Dick" Enberg, Ph.D (born January 9, 1935) is an American 
sportscaster. He provided play-by-play for various sports on numerous radio 
and television networks, including NBC, CBS, ESPN, and individual teams, 
over the course of an approximately 60-year career. Enberg is well known 
for his signature on-air catchphrases "Touch 'em all" (for home runs) and 
"Oh, my!" (for particularly exciting and outstanding athletic plays). He 
also announced or hosted the Tournament of Roses Parade for many years, 
sometimes with the help of family members. Enberg retired from broadcasting 
in 2016. Enberg was born in Mount Clemens, Michigan. Following high school 
in nearby Armada, he played college baseball and earned a bachelor's degree 
in 1957 at Central Michigan University. Enberg then went on to graduate 
school at Indiana University, where he earned master's and doctorate degrees 
in health sciences. While at Indiana, Enberg voiced the first radio broadcast 
of the Little 500, the bicycle racing event popularized in the film Breaking 
Away. He was also the play-by-play announcer for Indiana Hoosiers football 
and basketball games, and in 1961 called his first NCAA basketball tournament 
event, the championship game between Cincinnati and Ohio State.[1] From 
1961 to 1965 he was an assistant professor and baseball coach at Cal State 
Northridge, then known as San Fernando Valley State College. Dick Enberg 
is also a member of the Phi Sigma Kappa fraternity. In the late 1960s, 
Enberg began a full-time sportscasting career in Los Angeles, working for 
KTLA television (anchoring a nightly sports report and calling UCLA Bruins 
basketball) and KMPC radio (calling Los Angeles Rams football and California 
Angels baseball). After every Angels victory, he would wrap up his broadcast 
with, "And the halo shines tonight," in reference to the "Big A" scoreboard 
at Anaheim Stadium and the halo at the top, which would light up for everyone 
in the area to see, particularly from the adjacent freeway. Enberg was 
named California Sportscaster of the Year four times during this period 
(1967, 1968, 1970, 1973).[2] In the 1960s, Enberg announced boxing matches 
at L.A.'s Olympic Auditorium. In 1968, Enberg was recommended by UCLA athletic 
director J. D. Morgan to be the national broadcaster for the syndicated 
TVS Television Network to cover the "Game of the Century" between the Houston 
Cougars and the UCLA Bruins. Enberg continued to call the occasional UCLA 
game for TVS through the early 1970s, usually teaming with Rod Hundley. 
In the 1970s, Enberg hosted the syndicated television game show Sports 
Challenge, and co-produced the Emmy Award-winning sports-history series 
The Way It Was for PBS. In the 1970 opening conference game in Pauley Pavilion, 
Oregon went into a stall against the UCLA Bruins. Enberg had run out of 
statistics and began to fill his radio broadcast with small talk. The movie 
Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid had just been released, and Enberg was 
humming the tune to "Raindrops Keep Fallin' on My Head", but did not know 
the words. Two nights later, at the Oregon State game, many students brought 
the lyrics to the song. Enberg promised that he would sing the song if 
UCLA won the conference championship. He sang the song following the final 
game of the season. The event was recorded in the Los Angeles Times and 
was later recounted in the book Pauley Pavilion: College Basketball's Showplace 
by David Smale. During the 2006 NCAA Men's Basketball Championship broadcast, 
there was a short feature on the event. In 1973, Enberg hosted the game 
show Baffle, which lasted just a year before being cancelled in 1974. A 
year later, producer Monty Hall hired Enberg to host the shorter-lived 
Three for the Money. In 1975, Enberg joined NBC Sports. For the next 25 
years, he broadcast a plethora of sports and events for NBC, including 
the National Football League, Major League Baseball, the National Basketball 
Association, the U.S. Open golf championship, college football, college 
basketball, the Wimbledon and French Open tennis tournaments, heavyweight 
boxing, Breeders' Cup and other horse racing events, and the Olympic Games. 
Enberg replaced Curt Gowdy as lead play-by-play announcer for the NFL on 
NBC in 1979, and would pick up the network's telecast of the Rose Bowl 
Game in 1980. He would be in the booth in Pasadena every year until ABC 
picked up the broadcast in 1989. While on The NFL on NBC, Enberg called 
eight Super Bowls (alongside the likes of Merlin Olsen, Bob Trumpy, Phil 
Simms, and Paul Maguire), the last being Super Bowl XXXII in January 1998. 
Enberg also anchored NBC's coverage of Super Bowl XIII (called by Curt 
Gowdy) in 1979. He also called three Canadian Football League games in 
1982 during the NFL strike.[3] Among the notable games called by Enberg 
was the Week 3 51-45 shootout between the Jets and Dolphins and the 1987 
playoff game between Denver and Cleveland. According to his autobiography, 
Oh My!, Enberg was informed by NBC that he would become the lead play-by-play 
voice of Major League Baseball Game of the Week beginning with the 1982 
World Series (for which he served as pregame host and shared play-by-play 
duties with Joe Garagiola alongside analyst Tony Kubek) and through subsequent 
regular seasons. He wrote that on his football trips, he would read every 
Sporting News to make sure he was current with all the baseball news and 
notes. Then he met with NBC executives in September 1982, and they informed 
him that Vin Scully was in negotiations to be their lead baseball play-by-play 
man (teaming with Garagiola while Kubek would team with Bob Costas) and 
would begin with the network in the spring of 1983. According to the book, 
Enberg wasn't pleased about the decision (since he loved being the California 
Angels' radio and television voice in the 1970s and was eager to return 
to baseball) but the fact that NBC was bringing in Scully, arguably baseball's 
best announcer, was understandable. Enberg added that NBC also gave him 
a significant pay increase as a pseudo-apology for not coming through on 
the promise to make him the lead baseball play-by-play man. Enberg would 
go on to call some cable TV broadcasts for the Angels in 1985, citing a 
desire to reconnect with the sport. Enberg hosted NBC's pregame shows of 
the 1985 National League Championship Series with Joe Morgan. It was Enberg 
who broke the news to most of the nation that Vince Coleman was injured 
before Game 4. NBC even aired an interview with one of the few people who 
actually saw the incident, a Dodger batboy. Enberg was also in Toronto 
to do the pregame for Games 1 and 7 of the 1985 American League Championship 
Series alongside Rick Dempsey (who was still active with Baltimore at the 
time). NBC planned to use Enberg as one of its announcers for The Baseball 
Network coverage in 1994, but the players' strike that year ended the season 
before he had the opportunity to call any games. As NBC's voice of the 
Wimbledon tennis championships, the last tournament for him being in 1999 
(alongside Bud Collins and, later, John McEnroe), Enberg regularly concluded 
the network's coverage of the two-week event with thematically appropriate 
observations accompanied by a montage of video clips. Enberg was hired 
by CBS Sports in 2000, serving as a play-by-play announcer for the network's 
NFL, college basketball, and US Open Tennis coverage. For several years 
he also contributed to CBS' coverage of The Masters and PGA Championship 
golf as an interviewer and essayist. Another enduring element of Enberg's 
broadcasting legacy is his ability to provide warm and poignant reflections 
on the sporting events he covers. Enberg Essays, as they came to be known, 
were a regular feature of CBS's coverage of college basketball's Final 
Four. On March 27, 2010, Enberg called his final college basketball game 
for CBS, an East Regional tournament final featuring the Kentucky Wildcats 
versus the West Virginia Mountaineers.[4] After becoming the Padres' play-by-play 
announcer, Enberg said he hoped to continue calling late-season NFL games 
for CBS, but his name was omitted from the network's announcing roster 
for 2010.[5] He continued to call the US Open for CBS through 2011. Enberg 
returned to call one match and serve as an essayist during the 2014 US 
Open, to help commemorate CBS's last year covering the event before ESPN 
took over in 2015.[6] On September 14, 2009, Juan Martín del Potro upset 
Roger Federer to win the Men's US Open Championship. Enberg hosted the 
post-match ceremony during which del Potro requested to address his fans 
in Spanish. Enberg declined the request saying that he was running out 
of time but went on to list the corporate sponsored prizes del Potro won.[7] 
A couple of minutes later, Del Potro made the same request again and only 
then Enberg relented saying "Very quickly, in Spanish, he wants to say 
hello to his friends here and in Argentina". An emotional del Potro finally 
spoke a few sentences in Spanish to a cheering crowd. Many viewers expressed 
disappointment with Enberg and CBS over the interview.[7] A CBS executive 
later defended Enberg, noting that the contract with the United States 
Tennis Association required that certain sponsors receive time during the 
ceremony.[8] Beginning in 2004, Enberg served as a play-by-play announcer 
for ESPN2's coverage of the Wimbledon and French Open tennis tournaments, 
adding the Australian Open the following year. Enberg came to ESPN on lease 
from CBS, where he already called the US Open, the one Grand Slam tournament 
not covered by ESPN until 2009. At the 2004 French Open, Enberg called 
a match per day and also provided his "Enberg Moments". At Wimbledon in 
2004, he participated in a new one-hour morning show called Breakfast at 
Wimbledon. ESPN asked CBS for permission to use Enberg during the summer 
of 2004 at both the French Open and Wimbledon. Enberg then surprised his 
new bosses by volunteering for the 2005 Australian Open in January 2005. 
"I've never been to Australia," he said. "At my age then [69], to be able 
to work a full Grand Slam is something I'd like to have at the back of 
my book." Enberg stopped calling the French Open after 2009 due to his 
Padres commitments, though he continued to call the Wimbledon and Australian 
Open tournaments over the next two years. In June 2011, it was reported 
that his ESPN contract had ended and that the 2011 Wimbledon tournament 
would be his final one for the network.[9] In December 2009, Enberg was 
hired as a television play-by-play announcer by the San Diego Padres, signing 
a multi-year deal to call 110–120 games a season for channel 4SD.[10] Enberg 
primarily teamed with Mark Grant on the Padres' telecasts. In his debut 
season as a Padres broadcaster, Enberg took some criticism from fans over 
a perceived lack of enthusiasm for the home team. Told that he was regarded 
by some viewers as getting "too excited" over plays by opposing players, 
Enberg responded, "I find that a real compliment."[11] He did move to placate 
the critics, however, by limiting the use of his signature home run call 
of "Touch 'em all!" to Padres home runs.[12] In 2012, Enberg returned as 
play-by-play voice of the Padres as they moved their telecasts from 4SD 
to Fox Sports San Diego, in the first year of a 20-year deal between the 
team and the newly formed network. On September 23, 2015, Enberg indicated 
he would call Padre games for one more season in 2016, then retire.[13] 
On May 21, 2016, Enberg served as a special guest play-by-play broadcaster 
for the Detroit Tigers in their home game with the Tampa Bay Rays, calling 
the game on Fox Sports Detroit alongside analyst Kirk Gibson. The Tigers 
were Enberg's boyhood team, as he lived in the Detroit area.[14] Enberg's 
last game with the Padres was October 2, 2016. In his last week on air, 
he made a guest appearance with Los Angeles Dodgers announcer Vin Scully, 
who was retiring after a 67-year career on the same day as Enberg.[15] 
In 2006 and 2007, Enberg called Thursday night and postseason NFL games 
for Westwood One radio. Also in 2006, he began narrating a documentary 
style television series for Fox Sports Net called In Focus on FSN. In addition 
to his career in sports broadcasting, Enberg hosted three game shows besides 
the aforementioned Sports Challenge: The Perfect Match in 1967, Baffle 
on NBC from 1973 through 1974, and Three for the Money on NBC in 1975. 
He also lent his voice to the animated CBS cartoon series Where's Huddles? 
(1970), the film Rollerball (1975), and the American-dubbed version of 
the animated UK Christmas special Robbie the Reindeer: Hooves of Fire (2002); 
made appearances in the films Two-Minute Warning (1976), Gus (1976), Heaven 
Can Wait (1978), The Longshot (1986), The Naked Gun (1988), and Mr. 3000 
(2004); and appeared as himself in episodes of such television programs 
as The King of Queens and CSI: NY.[16] In addition, Enberg was seen in 
a series of commercials for GTE during the 1980s and early 1990s, and was 
the voice of the announcer in the classic Talking Football tabletop game 
from Mattel. Enberg has garnered many awards and honors over the years, 
including 13 Sports Emmy Awards (as well as a Lifetime Achievement Emmy), 
nine National Sportscaster of the Year awards from the National Sportscasters 
and Sportswriters Association (and induction into that organization's Hall 
of Fame), five Sportscaster of the Year awards from the American Sportscasters 
Association (which also ranked Enberg tenth in its 2009 listing of the 
Top 50 Sportscasters of All Time[18]), the Pete Rozelle Award from the 
Pro Football Hall of Fame, the Curt Gowdy Award from the Basketball Hall 
of Fame, the Ford Frick Award from the National Baseball Hall of Fame, 
and a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. Enberg is the only sportscaster 
thus far to win Emmys in three categories (broadcasting, writing, and producing), 
and in 1973 became the first U.S. sportscaster to visit the People's Republic 
of China. Enberg was inducted into Central Michigan University's Athletics 
Hall of Fame in 1993. (source: cmuchippewas.com) The university named an 
academic center for him in 2007. Enberg was raised in Armada, Michigan 
and was responsible for the naming of the Armada High School yearbook, 
the Regit (Tiger spelled backwards), a name it has to this day. A hallway 
in the Macomb Academy of Arts and Sciences, which is run by Armada school 
district and shares the building with its administration office, was named 
after him. Indiana University awarded Enberg an honorary doctorate of humane 
letters in 2002. He would be inducted into the Indiana University Intercollegiate 
Athletics Hall of Fame in the fall of 2006. Enberg also received an honorary 
doctorate of humane letters from Marquette University in 2009, and gave 
the address at the university's May 2009 commencement ceremony. In 1997, 
the College Sports Information Directors of America (CoSIDA) honored Enberg 
with an award in recognition of his longtime support of the organization's 
Academic All-America program. The Dick Enberg Award is given annually to 
a person whose actions and commitment have furthered the meaning and reach 
of the Academic All-America Teams Program and/or the student-athlete while 
promoting the values of education and academics. Past recipients include 
President Gerald D. Ford, Coach Mike Krzyzewski, Coach Pat Summitt, Coach 
Joe Paterno, et al. Enberg continues to be an avid supporter of the program, 
often lending his voice to video presentations related to CoSIDA's annual 
Academic All-America Hall of Fame ceremony.[19] In 2006 Enberg was Awarded 
the Ambassador Award of Excellence by the LA Sports & Entertainment Commission 
for his involvement in the community.[20] For his contributions to the 
Rose Bowl game and parade through the years, Enberg was inducted into the 
Rose Bowl Hall of Fame on December 31, 2011.[21] The National Baseball 
Hall of Fame named Enberg the 2015 recipient of the Ford C. Frick Award 
for excellence in baseball broadcasting. He was presented with the award 
in a ceremony during the Hall's induction weekend on July 25, 2015.[22] 
Enberg is only the second American sportscaster (after Curt Gowdy) to be 
selected for broadcasting awards from each of the Halls of Fame in professional 
football, basketball and baseball. Dick Enberg's surname is of Swedish 
origin.[23] While working at Saginaw, Michigan radio station WSAM early 
in his career, Enberg considered changing his name professionally to "Dick 
Breen" after being told that "Enberg" was too Jewish-sounding.[24] During 
an ESPN television broadcast from the Wimbledon tennis championships on 
June 24, 2010, Enberg said his father was born in Finland, and changed 
his name from the Finnish "Katajavuori" to the Swedish equivalent Enberg 
on arrival in the U.S. as he felt it would be a simpler name. The surname 
means "juniper mountain." Enberg said it pleased him that Jarkko Nieminen 
was doing so well as Finland is close to his heart and it is a small nation 
with few tennis facilities. The story of his surname is also detailed in 
his autobiography, Oh My!. Enberg is the father of actor Alexander Enberg, 
actor-musician Andrew Enberg, and daughter Jennifer Enberg by former wife 
Jeri Taylor. He is currently married to Barbara (née Hedbring) and they 
have one son, Ted Enberg (who like his dad, is a sportscaster), and two 
daughters, Nicole and Emily. Enberg penned a one-man theatrical play titled 
COACH, as a tribute to his former television broadcast partner and late 
friend, Al McGuire, the extraordinary college basketball coach and commentator. 
It debuted at Marquette University's Helfaer Theater in 2005. It drew positive 
reviews as an accurate portrayal of the eccentric coach. At the 2007 NCAA 
Final Four in Atlanta, Enberg presented three performances of COACH at 
the Alliance Theater. Those attending the April 1 matinée included Hall 
of Famers coach Dean Smith (whom McGuire defeated in the 1977 NCAA Championship 
in Atlanta) and former UCLA All-American center Bill Walton. The play was 
then performed at Hofstra University, near Al's old neighborhood on Long 
Island in New York. It has since been booked in San Diego, Los Angeles, 
Las Vegas, Chicago, Portland, Maine, North Carolina and Indiana. The most 
recent performance was at the New York Athletic Club in Manhattan. Actor 
Cotter Smith portrays McGuire in the one-man show. Enberg has served as 
Chairman of the American Sportscasters Association since 1983. He is also 
a Board Member for the Lott IMPACT Trophy, which is named after Pro Football 
Hall of Fame defensive back Ronnie Lott and is given annually to college 
