Dick Young (October 17, 1917 – August 30, 1987) was a sportswriter best 
known for his direct and abrasive style, and his 45-year association with 
the New York Daily News. He was elected to the writers' wing of the Baseball 
Hall of Fame in 1978, and was a former president of the Baseball Writers' 
Association of America.[1] Young was the first sportswriter to treat the 
clubhouse as a central and necessary part of the sports "beat", and his 
success at ferreting out scoops and insights from within the previously 
private sanctum of the team was influential and often imitated. The Boston 
Globe's Bob Ryan said of Young, "He's the guy that broke ground, the guy 
who went into the locker room, and that changed everything."[2] A self-professed 
Republican, Young sided frequently with owners of professional sports teams 
engaging in public contractual debates with players, most notoriously in 
1977 when he described Mets ace pitcher Tom Seaver, a three-time Cy Young 
Award winner, as "a pouting, griping, morale-breaking clubhouse lawyer 
."<Schoor, Gene. Seaver. Chicago: Contemporary Books Inc., 1986: 238> In 
2000, Ira Berkow chose Young as one of the seven sportswriters who'd made 
the greatest impact on their profession, along with Red Smith, Grantland 
Rice, Ring Lardner, Damon Runyon, Jimmy Cannon, and Jim Murray. According 
to Jack Ziegler in the Dictionary of Literary Biography, Young was a "key 
transitional figure" between the "gentlemanly" sports reporting of old-time 
writers like Grantland Rice and Arthur Daley. Upon his death, The New York 
Times described Young's prose style: "With all the subtlety of a knee in 
the groin, Dick Young made people gasp... He could be vicious, ignorant, 
trivial and callous, but for many years he was the epitome of the brash, 
unyielding yet sentimental Damon Runyon sportswriter."[3] Esquire Magazine 
called Young's writing "coarse and simpleminded, like a cave painting. 
But it is superbly crafted." Ross Wetzsteon wrote that Young had "singlehandedly 
replaced the pompous poetry of the press box with the cynical poetry of 
the streets." In his book The Boys of Summer, Roger Kahn called Young "spiky, 
self-educated, and New York." Characteristically, Young described his approach 
to sportswriting simply: "Tell people what's going on, and what you think 
is going on. Bread-and-butter stuff, meat-and-potato stuff."[2] Young joined 
the News as a teenaged messenger boy in 1937, and broke into the sports 
pages five years later. He eventually became the newspaper's signature 
columnist, known to readers for his insider coverage and acerbic wit. During 
the 1951 season, when the Brooklyn Dodgers were in the process of losing 
a 13 1⁄2-game lead and the pennant to the crosstown rival New York Giants, 
one of Young's columns began, "The tree that grows in Brooklyn is an apple 
tree." This remark referred to the colloquialism "taking the apple", which 
was then used to describe an athlete choking. Previously, Young had agitated 
for the dismissal of Dodgers manager Burt Shotton, or "KOBS" in Youngspeak. 
Daily News readers knew that "KOBS" was Young's acronym for "Kindly Old 
Burt Shotton", and was not intended as a term of endearment. Referring 
to the 30,000 attendance figure announced by New York Titans owner Harry 
Wismer, Young quipped, "He must have been counting the eyes."[4] Describing 
a lopsided loss by the Brooklyn Dodgers, Young began his column, "This 
story belongs on page three with the other axe murders."[5] What would 
become Young's most famous sentence as a sportswriter did not appear under 
his own byline. While covering journeyman Don Larsen's perfect game in 
the 1956 World Series, the Daily News' writer Joe Trimble struggled to 
find appropriate words to begin his article. Young reached over and typed 
seven words into Trimble's typewriter: "The imperfect man pitched a perfect 
game."[6] A 1957 column by Young revealed to fans that Dodger teammates 
Jackie Robinson and Don Newcombe were no longer on the best of terms. The 
article contained several negative quotes from Roy Campanella (i.e. ""When 
it's my turn to bow out of baseball, I certainly don't want to go out like 
he did", and "Instead of being grateful to baseball, he's criticizing it. 
Everything he has he owes to baseball"), which were obtained during a conversation 
in Campanella's liquor store that Campanella had mistakenly assumed was 
off the record. In 1959 and 1960, Young was a vigorous advocate of the 
Continental League, the proposed third major professional baseball league 
that was announced in the wake of the Dodgers and Giants leaving New York 
for California. The Continental League never came to fruition, but was 
instrumental in spurring Major League Baseball to add four new expansion 
franchises. This included a replacement National League team in New York: 
the Mets. In 1961, it was Young who first suggested the idea of putting 
an asterisk on Roger Maris' home run total, should the Yankee right fielder 
fail to catch or surpass Babe Ruth in the first 154 games of the season, 
saying "Everyone does that when there's a difference of opinion." Willie 
Mays was elected to the Hall of Fame in 1979 with 94% of the vote. Young 
angrily denounced the 23 sportswriters who had omitted Mays from their 
ballots, writing, "If Jesus Christ were to show up with His old baseball 
glove, some guys wouldn't vote for Him. He dropped the cross three times, 
didn't He?"[7] Young was a tireless worker, writing as many as seven of 
his "Young Ideas" columns per week, in addition to covering one of the 
New York baseball teams six out of seven days, for up to three daily editions 
of the News. He also had a regular column in The Sporting News from the 
late 1950s until 1985. At his peak, he was probably the highest-paid sportswriter 
in the United States. The Sporting News described his career arc: "Though 
Young's best work was on the baseball beat, his most controversial and 
memorable writing came later, as a general columnist. He became the Archie 
Bunker of the keyboard, voicing populist rage."[2] For several years after 
his 1987 death, the Village Voice ran a parody of a late-period Young column 
in its sports section, railing at all comers underneath the tag "Dateline: 
Hell." Young was also known for his conservative views and his mercurial 
temperament. He physically brawled with technicians who he felt crowded 
the clubhouse, when the age of television arrived. Fellow sportswriter 
Marty Appel recalled "cringing" at Young's "boorish" habit of upbraiding 
workers in other cities' stadiums for not meeting his "New York standards."[8] 
Appel continued: Though he was an advocate of certain rights and causes, 
he was skeptical of others. Despite his own candid clubhouse reporting, 
Young blasted Jim Bouton as a "social leper" after the publication of the 
pitcher's tell-all book Ball Four. The head of the players' union, Marvin 
Miller, was negatively characterized as a "Svengali". And when an arbitrator 
ruled in favor of the union, thus ending baseball's reserve clause, Young's 
first reaction was to write: "Peter Seitz reminds me of a terrorist, a 
little man to whom nothing very important has happened in his lifetime, 
who suddenly decides to create some excitement by tossing a bomb into things."[9] 
Young took to invoking "My America", which was more a state of mind than 
a location. From Young's America, the writer decried the majority of contemporary 
athletes and events. Certain athletes won Young over with their soft-spokenness 
or work ethic, like boxers Joe Frazier and Ken Norton. He had no tolerance 
for the brash new style of sports stars such as Muhammad Ali or Joe Namath, 
who became his targets. But Young's deference to authority could lead him 
to oppose modest athletes also, as in 1974 when he took commissioner Bowie 
Kuhn's side over Hank Aaron's. Sitting on 713 home runs, Aaron wanted to 
tie and break Babe Ruth's all-time record at home, but Kuhn decreed that 
Aaron would have to play a set amount of road games before getting that 
chance. Young wrote that the Braves were destroying the integrity of the 
sport by holding Aaron out of the lineup. Having no interest in the "foreign" 
game of soccer, Young heckled Pelé and the owners of the New York Cosmos 
at the press conference announcing the star's arrival in the NASL. Reportedly, 
Young subsequently brought Pelé to a Mets game and was shocked to see him 
besieged by fans. While covering the 1980 World Series, he wrote admiringly 
of the way the Philadelphia police had ringed the field with mounted officers, 
adding "If a few dogs on leashes and a few policemen on horses can command 
respect, think of what an electric chair might do."[10] In 1986, boxer 
Larry Holmes had Young ejected from one of his workouts. In 1987, he urged 
fans to boo Dwight Gooden following his suspension for cocaine use. According 
to Marty Appel, "he wrote a note about why Johnny Bench's first marriage 
ended that made even Young's best defenders wonder if he had gone too far."[8] 
He could be prickly with his colleagues. He was dismissive of the New York 
Times' star columnist Red Smith, whom he considered sentimental and old-fashioned. 
Never comfortable with the broadcast media, Young had a long and loud mutual 
hostility with Howard Cosell, whom he called "Howie the Shill" in his columns 
when he wasn't using pejoratives like "fraud" or "an ass." Cosell described 
Young as "a right wing cultural illiterate."[11] On some occasions, Young 
would stand near Cosell while he was taping locker room interviews, and 
shout out profanities so that the tape would not be usable. In 1967, Young 
told Sports Illustrated, "You've got to treat Howard the way he treats 
you. You've got to throw his flamboyant junk back in his face." However, 
Young was also an early advocate of allowing female sportswriters to have 
full access in locker rooms, and many new writers had stories to tell about 
how Young had generously helped and advised them. Young was an outspoken 
opponent of baseball's segregation policy, and wrote about the racial abuse 
faced by such players as Jackie Robinson and Don Newcombe. But he also 
continued to call Muhammad Ali "Cassius Clay" for many years after his 
conversion, and accused the boxer of racism and draft-dodging. Young did 
not reconcile with Ali until after the latter was retired. Giants outfielder 
Dusty Rhodes, pinch hitting for Monte Irvin, hit a three-run walk-off homer 
that won Game 1 of the 1954 World Series over the heavily favored Cleveland 
Indians in the 10th inning. Because the homer had barely cleared the 259-foot 
(79 m) right-field fence in the Polo Grounds, the shortest in baseball 
at that time, it was called a "Chinese home run", implying that it hadn't 
required much effort to hit. Many New York sportswriters riffed on this 
idea in the coverage. Young began his piece: The story of the Giants' 5–2 
win over Cleveland in yesterday's World Series opener should be written 
vertically, from top to bottom ... in Chinese hieroglyphics. It was won 
on a 10th inning homer that was not only sudden death but pure murder ... 
right out of a Charlie Chan yarn. Ming Toy Rhodes, sometimes called Dusty 
by his Occidental friends, was honorable person who, as a pinch hitter, 
delivered miserable bundle of wet wash to first row in rightfield of Polo 
Grounds, some 259 1⁄2 feet down the road from the laundry. In reaction 
to Young's use of so many Chinese stereotypes, Shavey Lee, a Chinatown 
restaurateur considered the unofficial "mayor" of the Chinese American 
population in the city, collected signatures from his community on a Chinese-language[12] 
petition to the Giants' secretary, demanding that all sportswriters stop 
using the term. "It isn't the fault of the Chinese if you have a 258-foot 
fence", he wrote. "Why should we be blamed all the time? What makes a cheesy 
home run a Chinese home run?"[13] Most notoriously, Young engaged in a 
public feud with New York Mets pitcher Tom Seaver, which contributed to 
one of the turning points in Mets history. After free agency came to baseball, 
Seaver publicly complained that Mets owner M. Donald Grant made no effort 
to sign any of the available players. Seaver was also renegotiating his 
own contract, and Grant portrayed his star pitcher as being motivated by 
money. Grant's most enthusiastic supporter in the press was Young, who 
wrote a series of blistering columns about Seaver, culminating on June 
15, 1977. "In a way", Young wrote, "Tom Seaver is like Walter O'Malley. 
Both are very good at what they do. Both are very deceptive in what they 
say. Both are very greedy." But it was a paragraph later in the piece that 
enraged Seaver: Seaver and the Mets had just agreed on a contract extension 
the previous night, but following the column, Seaver informed the Mets 
that the deal was off and that he was insistent on being traded out of 
New York. "That Young column was the straw that broke the back", Seaver 
said in 2007. "Bringing your family into it, with no truth whatsoever to 
what he wrote. I could not abide that. I had to go." Seaver was traded 
to the Cincinnati Reds later the same day. When Young in 1978 received 
the J.G. Taylor Spink Award at the Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, 
New York, he was heavily booed by the fans.[14] In 1981, four years after 
vilifying Seaver for renegotiating his existing contract with the Mets, 
Young broke his own contract with the Daily News and jumped to the crosstown 
Post, where he remained until his death six years later.[15] The News filed 
a breach of contract suit against Young, which was eventually dismissed. 
Seaver was not the only baseball star to react angrily and conspicuously 
to Young's style of writing. During the 1979 World Series, Young interviewed 
Ray Poitevint, the Baltimore Orioles scout who had signed Eddie Murray 
six years earlier, and wrote about his protracted negotiations with Murray's 
family: The column further claimed that one of Murray's brothers tried 
to hit Poitevint with his car, and that Poitevint's associates was called 
an "Uncle Tom" (in fact, the associate was white).[16] In the wake of the 
column, Murray adopted a general policy of not speaking to any sportswriters, 
a career-long stance which provoked a considerable amount of criticism 
