As manager Richard Hirschfeld "Dick" Williams (May 7, 1929 – July 7, 2011) 
was an American left fielder, third baseman, manager, coach and front office 
consultant in Major League Baseball. Known especially as a hard-driving, 
sharp-tongued manager from 1967 to 1969 and from 1971 to 1988, he led teams 
to three American League pennants, one National League pennant, and two 
World Series triumphs. He is one of seven managers to win pennants in both 
major leagues, and joined Bill McKechnie in becoming only the second manager 
to lead three franchises to the Series. He and Lou Piniella are the only 
managers in history to lead four teams to seasons of 90 or more wins. Williams 
was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 2008 following his election 
by the Veterans Committee. Williams was born on May 7, 1929 in St. Louis, 
Missouri.[1] After growing up in St. Louis, and Pasadena, California, Williams 
signed his first professional contract with the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947, 
and played his first major league game with Brooklyn in 1951. Initially 
an outfielder, he separated a shoulder making a diving catch early in his 
career, weakening his throwing arm. As a result, he learned to play several 
positions (he was frequently a first baseman and third baseman) and became 
a notorious "bench jockey" in order to keep his major league job. He appeared 
in 1,023 games over 13 seasons with the Dodgers, Baltimore Orioles, Cleveland 
Indians, Kansas City Athletics and Boston Red Sox. A right-handed batter 
and thrower, Williams had a career batting average of .260; his 768 hits 
included 70 home runs, 157 doubles and 12 triples. He was a favorite of 
Paul Richards, who acquired Williams four different times between 1956 
and 1962 when Richards was a manager or general manager with Baltimore 
and the Houston Colt .45s. Williams never played for Houston; he was acquired 
in an off-season "paper transaction" on October 12, 1962, then traded to 
the Red Sox for another outfielder, Carroll Hardy, on December 10. His 
two-year playing career in Boston was uneventful, except for one occasion. 
On June 27, 1963, Williams was victimized by one of the greatest catches 
in Fenway Park history. His long drive to the opposite field was snagged 
by Cleveland right fielder Al Luplow, who made a leaping catch at the wall 
and tumbled into the bullpen with the ball in his grasp.[2] On October 
14, 1964, after a season during which Williams hit a career-low .159, the 
Red Sox handed him his unconditional release. At 35, Williams was at a 
career crossroads: Richards gave him a spring training invitation but no 
guarantee that he would make the 1965 Astros' playing roster; the Red Sox 
offered Williams a job as playing coach with their Triple-A farm team, 
the Seattle Rainiers of the Pacific Coast League. Looking to begin a post-playing 
career in baseball, Williams accepted the Seattle assignment. Within days, 
a shuffle in 1965 affiliations forced Boston to move its top minor league 
team to the Toronto Maple Leafs of the International League. This caused 
Boston's Triple-A manager, Seattle native Edo Vanni, to resign in order 
to remain in the Pacific Northwest. With an unexpected opening for the 
Toronto job, Williams was promoted to manager of the 1965 Leafs. As a novice 
pilot, Williams adopted a hard-nosed, disciplinarian style and won two 
consecutive Governors' Cup championships with teams laden with young Red 
Sox prospects. He then signed a one-year contract to manage the 1967 Red 
Sox. Boston had suffered through eight straight seasons of losing baseball, 
and attendance had fallen to such an extent that owner Tom Yawkey was threatening 
to move the team. The Red Sox had talented young players, but the team 
was known as a lazy "country club." As Carl Yastrzemski commented, "if 
you don't keep your nose to the grindstone you won't (win)...we kept our 
noses so far away from the grindstone we couldn't even see it."[3] Williams 
decided to risk everything and impose discipline on his players. He vowed 
that "we will win more ballgames than we lose" — a bold statement for a 
club that had finished only a half-game from last place in 1966. The only 
team with a worse record than the Red Sox was their arch-rival, the New 
York Yankees, who were headed in a downward spiral only two years after 
losing the 1964 World Series to the St. Louis Cardinals in seven games. 
In spring training Williams drilled players in fundamentals for hours. 
He issued fines for curfew violations, and insisted his players put the 
success of the team before their own. In Yastrzemski's words, "Dick Williams 
didn't take anything when he took over the club last spring...to the best 
of my knowledge -- and I would know if it had happened -- no one challenged 
Williams all season."[4] The Red Sox began 1967 playing better baseball 
and employing the aggressive style of play that Williams had learned with 
the Dodgers. Williams benched players for lack of effort and poor performance, 
and battled tooth and nail with umpires. Through the All-Star break, Boston 
fulfilled Williams' promise and played better than .500 ball, hanging close 
to the American League's four contending teams — the Detroit Tigers, Minnesota 
Twins, Chicago White Sox and California Angels. Outfielder Carl Yastrzemski, 
in his seventh season with the Red Sox, transformed his hitting style to 
become a pull-hitter, eventually winning the 1967 AL Triple Crown, leading 
the league in batting average, home runs (tying Harmon Killebrew of the 
Twins), and RBI. In late July, the Red Sox rattled off a ten-game winning 
streak on the road and came home to a riotous welcome from 10,000 fans 
at Boston's Logan Airport. The Red Sox inserted themselves into a five-team 
pennant race, and stayed in the hunt despite the loss of star outfielder 
Tony Conigliaro to a beanball on August 18. On the closing weekend of the 
season, led by Yastrzemski and 22-game-winning pitcher Jim Lonborg, Boston 
defeated the Twins in two head-to-head games, while Detroit split its series 
with the Angels. The "Impossible Dream" Red Sox had won their first AL 
pennant since 1946. The Red Sox extended the highly talented and heavily 
favored St. Louis Cardinals to seven games in the 1967 World Series, losing 
to the great Bob Gibson three times. Despite the Series loss, the Red Sox 
were the toasts of New England; Williams was named Major League Manager 
of the Year by The Sporting News and signed to a new three-year contract. 
But he would not serve it out. In 1968, the team fell to fourth place when 
Conigliaro could not return from his head injury, and Williams' two top 
pitchers — Lonborg and José Santiago — were injured. He began to clash 
with Yastrzemski, and with owner Yawkey. On September 22, 1969, with his 
club a distant third in the AL East, Williams was fired with nine games 
left in the season. After spending 1970 as the third base coach of the 
Montreal Expos, Williams returned to the managerial ranks the next year 
as boss of the Oakland Athletics, owned by Charlie Finley. The iconoclastic 
Finley had signed some of the finest talent in baseball – including Catfish 
Hunter, Reggie Jackson, Sal Bando, Bert Campaneris, Rollie Fingers and 
Joe Rudi – but his players hated him for his penny-pinching and constant 
meddling in the team's affairs. During his first decade as the Athletics' 
owner, 1961–1970, Finley had changed managers a total of ten times. Inheriting 
a second-place team from predecessor John McNamara, Williams promptly directed 
the A's to 101 victories and their first AL West title in 1971 behind another 
brilliant young player, pitcher Vida Blue. Despite being humbled in the 
ALCS by the defending World Champion Orioles, Finley brought Williams back 
for 1972, when the "Oakland Dynasty" began. Off the field, the A's players 
brawled with each other and defied baseball's tonsorial code. Because long 
hair, mustaches and beards were now the rage in the "civilian" world, Finley 
decided on a mid-season promotion encouraging his men to wear their hair 
long and grow facial hair. Fingers adopted his trademark handlebar mustache 
(which he still has to this day); Williams himself grew a mustache. Of 
course, talent, not hairstyle, truly defined the Oakland Dynasty of the 
early 1970s. The 1972 A's won their division by 5½ games over the White 
Sox and led the league in home runs, shutouts and saves. They defeated 
the Tigers in a bitterly fought ALCS, and found themselves facing the Cincinnati 
Reds in the World Series. With the A's leading power hitter, Jackson, out 
with an injury, Cincinnati's Big Red Machine was favored to win, but the 
home run heroics of Oakland catcher Gene Tenace and the managerial maneuvering 
of Williams resulted in a seven-game World Series victory for the A's, 
their first championship since 1930, when they played in Philadelphia. 
In 1973, with Williams back for an unprecedented (for the Finley era) third 
straight campaign, the A's again coasted to a division title, then defeated 
Baltimore in the ALCS and the NL champion New York Mets in the World Series 
– each hard-fought series going the limit. With their World Series win, 
Oakland became baseball's first repeat champion since the 1961–62 New York 
Yankees. But Williams had a surprise for Finley. Tired of his owner's meddling, 
and upset by Finley's public humiliation of second baseman Mike Andrews 
for his fielding miscues during the World Series, Williams resigned. George 
Steinbrenner, then finishing his first season as owner of the Yankees, 
immediately signed Williams as his manager. However, Finley protested that 
Williams owed Oakland the final year of his contract and could not manage 
anywhere else, and so Steinbrenner hired Bill Virdon instead.[5] Williams 
was the first manager in A's franchise history to leave the team with a 
winning record after running it for two full seasons. Seemingly at the 
peak of his career, Williams began the 1974 season out of work. But when 
the Angels struggled under manager Bobby Winkles, team owner Gene Autry 
received Finley's permission to negotiate with Williams, and in mid-season 
Williams was back in a big-league dugout. The change in management, though, 
did not alter the fortunes of the Angels, as they finished in last place, 
22 games behind the A's, who would win their third straight World Championship 
under Williams' replacement, Alvin Dark. Overall, Williams' Anaheim tenure 
turned out to be a miserable one. He did not have nearly as much talent 
as he'd had to work with in Boston and Oakland, and the Angels did not 
respond to Williams' somewhat authoritarian managing style. They finished 
last in the AL West again in 1975. They were 18 games below .500 (and in 
the midst of a player revolt) in 1976 when Williams was fired July 22. 
While managing the Angels, he once held a practice in the lobby of his 
team's hotel using only wiffle balls and bats; the point was to demonstrate 
that his hitters were so weak, they could not break anything in the lobby. 
In 1977, he returned to Montreal as manager of the Expos, who had just 
come off 107 losses and a last-place finish in the NL East. Team president 
John McHale and general manager Jim Fanning had been impressed with Williams' 
efforts in Boston and Oakland, and thought he was what the Expos needed 
to finally become a winner. When Williams switched to the National League, 
however, he regained his winning touch. After cajoling them into improved, 
but below .500, performances in his first two seasons in Montreal, Williams 
turned the 1979–80 Expos into pennant contenders. The team won over 90 
games both years—the first winning seasons in franchise history. The 1979 
unit won 95 games, the most that the franchise would win in Montreal. However, 
they finished second each time to the eventual World Champion (the Pittsburgh 
Pirates in 1979 and the Philadelphia Phillies in 1980). Williams was never 
afraid to give young players a chance to play, and his Expos teams were 
flush with young talent, including All-Stars such as outfielder Andre Dawson 
and catcher Gary Carter. With a solid core of young players and a fruitful 
farm system, the Expos seemed a lock to contend for a long time to come. 
But Williams' hard edge alienated his players—especially his pitchers—and 
ultimately wore out his welcome. He labeled pitcher Steve Rogers a fraud 
with "king of the mountain syndrome" – meaning that Rogers had been a good 
pitcher on a bad team for so long that he was unable to "step up" when 
the team became good. Williams also lost confidence in closer Jeff Reardon, 
whom the Montreal front office had acquired in a much publicized trade 
with the Mets. When the 1981 Expos performed below expectations, Williams 
was fired during the pennant drive on September 7. With the arrival of 
his easy-going successor Jim Fanning, who restored Reardon to the closer's 
role, the inspired Expos made the playoffs for the only time in their 36-year 
history in Montreal. However, they fell in heartbreaking fashion to Rick 
Monday and the eventual World Champion Los Angeles Dodgers in a five-game 
NLCS. Williams was not unemployed for long, however. In 1982, he took over 
the San Diego Padres. By 1984, he had guided the Padres to their first 
NL West Division championship. In the NLCS, the NL East champion Chicago 
Cubs – making their first postseason appearance since 1945 – won Games 
1 and 2, but Williams' Padres took the next three games in a miraculous 
comeback to win the pennant. In the World Series, however, San Diego was 
no match for Sparky Anderson's Detroit Tigers, a team that had won 104 
games during the regular season. Although the Tigers won the Series in 
five games, both Williams and Anderson joined Dark, Joe McCarthy, and Yogi 
Berra as managers who had won pennants in both major leagues (Tony La Russa 
joined this group in 2004 and Jim Leyland followed suit in 2006). The Padres 
fell to third in 1985, and Williams was let go as manager just before 1986 
spring training. His record with the Padres was 337–311 over four seasons. 
As of 2011, he was the only manager in the team's history without a losing 
season.[6] His difficulties with the Padres stemmed from a power struggle 
with team president Ballard Smith and general manager Jack McKeon.[6] Williams 
was a hire of team owner (and McDonald's restaurant magnate) Ray Kroc, 
whose health was failing. McKeon and Smith (who also happened to be Kroc's 
son-in-law) were posturing to buy the team and viewed Williams as a threat 
to their plans. With his San Diego tenure at an end, it appeared that Williams' 
managerial career was finished. When another perennial loser, the Seattle 
Mariners, lost 19 of their first 28 games in 1986 under Chuck Cottier, 
Williams came back to the American League West on May 6 for the first time 
in almost a decade. The Mariners showed some life that season and almost 
reached .500 the following season. However, Williams' autocratic managing 
style no longer played with the new generation of ballplayers. Williams 
was fired on June 8, 1988 with Seattle 23–33 and in sixth place. It would 
be his last major-league managing job. Williams' career won-loss totals 
were 1,571 wins and 1,451 losses over 21 seasons. In 1989, Williams was 
named manager of the West Palm Beach Tropics of the Senior Professional 
Baseball Association, a league featuring mostly former major league players 
35 years of age and older. The Tropics went 52–20 in the regular season 
and ran away with the Southern Division title. Despite their regular season 
dominance, the Tropics lost 12–4 to the St. Petersburg Pelicans in the 
league's championship game. The Tropics folded at the end of the season, 
and the rest of the league folded a year later. He remained in the game, 
however, as a special consultant to George Steinbrenner and the New York 
Yankees. In 1990, Williams published his autobiography, No More Mister 
Nice Guy. His acrimonious departure in 1969 distanced Williams from the 
Red Sox for the remainder of the Yawkey ownership period (through 2001), 
but after the change in ownership and management that followed, he was 
selected to the team's Hall of Fame in 2006. Williams's number was recently 
retired by the Fort Worth Cats. The Cats were a popular minor league team 
in Fort Worth and Williams played there while he was working his way through 
the Dodgers system. The Cats merged/disbanded around 1960 but in recent 
years returned as an independent minor league team. The "New" Cats retired 
Williams' number. Williams was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame by 
the Veterans Committee in December 2007, and was inducted on July 27, 2008.[7] 
He was inducted into the San Diego Padres Hall of Fame in 2009.[8] His 
son, Rick Williams a former minor league pitcher and Major League pitching 
coach, is currently a professional scout for the Yankees. Before Dick Williams 
became a Major League manager in 1967, he successfully appeared on the 
television quiz shows The Match Game and the original Hollywood Squares. 
According to Peter Marshall's Backstage with the Original Hollywood Squares, 
Williams won $50,000 as a contestant on the latter show. Marshall's son, 
Pete LaCock, played nine seasons (1972–1980) in the Major Leagues – but 
never for Williams. Dick Williams died of a ruptured aortic aneurysm at 
a hospital near his home in Henderson, Nevada on July 7, 2011.[1][10][11] 
In January 2000, Williams pleaded no contest to indecent exposure charges 
in Florida.[12][13] This occurred just weeks before the Baseball Hall of 
Fame Veterans Committee's vote in that year's inductees. "What happened 
to me down in Fort Myers when I was arrested evidently hurt me quite a 
bit", Williams told the New York Times in a telephone interview. "What 
came out on that in the papers was not true. I was not masturbating on 
the balcony. I'm going to issue a statement about it so the explanation 
