Dick Perez (born 1940) is an American artist known for his baseball paintings 
for the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum and the Philadelphia 
Phillies. He is also known for his paintings for various baseball card 
series. Perez's book "The Immortals: An Art Collection of Baseball's Best," 
(published 2010) offers a visual history of the 292 members of the Baseball 
Hall of Fame. He is a native of San Lorenzo, Puerto Rico. He moved to New 
York at age six and to Philadelphia at age sixteen where he studied at 
the Philadelphia College of Art and the University of Pennsylvania.[1][2] 
Perez’s art was on exhibit at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts in 
Philadelphia in 2004. It was the only one-man show dedicated to sports 
art at that institution.[3] There is now a permanent exhibit of the 33 
paintings (the original 32 plus an additional one of Pat Gillick who was 
admitted to the Hall of Fame in 2011) in the Hall of Fame section at Citizens 
Bank Park. [4] He has been the official artist for the Philadelphia Phillies 
since 1982 and was the official artist for the Major League Hall of Fame 
for twenty-five years. Starting in 1982, Perez painted a yearly set of 
cards for the "Diamond Kings" series for the Donruss Trading Card Co. The 
paintings were of baseball's premier players. The paintings were in partnership 
with Frank and Peggy Steele. (The Perez-Steele Galleries). Perez currently 
paints for Topps baseball cards.[1][2] His paintings use acrylics, oils, 
gouache and watercolors. His artistic influences include such greats as 
John Singer Sargent, Anders Zorn, Joaquin Sorolla, and Diego Velazquez. 
His works include other sports and non-sports paintings. Perez painted 
a portrait of Grover Cleveland Alexander for President Ronald Reagan and 
a Japanese stickball scene for " Ichiro Suzuki of the Seattle Mariners. 
He also painted Arky Vaughan for President Clinton. He was commissioned 
to paint Robert N. C. Nix, Jr., a former Pennsylvania Supreme Court Chief 
Justice, for the Pennsylvania Bar Association.[1][2][5] [6] He won a national 
contest in 1976 for the National League official centennial logo and designed 
the cover for the 1982 World Series. For Perez, baseball has a rich history 
with multiple facets (offense, defense, running, catching and pitching) 
and multiple focal points (the stadiums, the uniforms, the equipment and 
the fans in the stands). He tries to incorporate all of these elements 
