As player As manager Richard Dalton Howser (May 14, 1936 – June 17, 1987) 
was an American Major League Baseball shortstop, coach and manager. He 
is best known as the manager of the Kansas City Royals during the 1980s, 
and for guiding them to the franchise's first World Series title in 1985. 
A native of Miami, Florida, Howser grew up in West Palm Beach, Florida, 
graduated from Palm Beach High School and attended college at Florida State 
University. He was a member of the Sigma Nu fraternity. At Florida State, 
he received honors twice as an All-American shortstop and set a school 
record with a batting average of .422 in 1956. Signed by the Kansas City 
Athletics, he hit .280, stole 37 bases, scored 108 runs, and led American 
League shortstops in putouts and errors in his rookie season. For this 
he was selected to the 1961 All-Star team, and was named The Sporting News 
rookie of the year. As his stats declined in the following two years, his 
only other season as a regular was with the Cleveland Indians in 1964. 
His major league career spanned eight seasons with three (3) clubs – Kansas 
City Athletics, Cleveland Indians, and New York Yankees. Immediately following 
his playing career, he was the third base coach with the Yankees for ten 
seasons (1969–78). He then spent one year (1979) as head baseball coach 
at his alma mater, Florida State. As a manager at the major league level, 
Howser was highly successful, never finishing lower than second place during 
his seven-year managerial career. He made his debut in 1978, managing one 
game with the Yankees between Billy Martin's and Bob Lemon's first tours 
as skipper in the Bronx. In 1980, he returned from Florida State to become 
a full-time manager of the Yanks, taking them to the AL Eastern Division 
championship with a 103–59 record, but losing three consecutive games to 
the Kansas City Royals in the playoffs. Howser was one of the few Yankee 
managers who refused to let owner George Steinbrenner push him around. 
Steinbrenner had a rule about facial hair, which Reggie Jackson would skirt 
around from time to time in 1980. Howser, thinking it was unimportant with 
the year Reggie was having, refused to correct Jackson, but Jackson later 
relented and shaved out of respect for Howser. Also, whenever Steinbrenner 
would call the manager's office before or after games while Howser was 
meeting with coaches or reporters, Howser would pick up the phone, say 
"I'm busy!", and hang up. Steinbrenner, however, got the last word. In 
Game 2 of the 1980 ALCS, Yankee third base coach Mike Ferraro waved Willie 
Randolph home on a double by Bob Watson with two outs in the top of the 
eighth inning and the Yankees down 3-2. Randolph was thrown out at the 
plate on a relay throw by George Brett, prompting Steinbrenner to jump 
out of his seat and shout what appeared to be profanities on live national 
television. Steinbrenner wanted Ferraro fired on the spot after the game, 
but Howser refused. The Yankees would go on to lose the ALCS in three games, 
and Steinbrenner fired Howser shortly after that. In the 2007 ESPN produced 
mini-series The Bronx Is Burning, Howser was portrayed by actor Max Casella. 
The next year, Kansas City, his postseason rival on multiple occasions 
in previous seasons, hired Howser to manage the last 33 games of the strike-shortened 
1981 season. Under Howser, the Royals finished second in 1982 and 1983. 
Prior to the 1984 season, their clubhouse ravaged by drug problems, the 
Royals started disassembling their team and starting over.[citation needed] 
Kansas City expected 1984 to be a rebuilding year, but Howser guided the 
young team to a division title. The Royals were defeated by the Detroit 
Tigers in the American League Championship Series, three games to none. 
The following year Howser guided the Royals to their first World Series 
title. The Royals reached the World Series by defeating the Toronto Blue 
Jays in the American League Championship Series, which was Toronto's first 
postseason appearance. The Royals then went on to defeat the heavily favored 
St. Louis Cardinals. In both the ALCS and World Series, the Royals won 
each series by overcoming a 3-1 deficit to take the last 3 games. As manager 
of the defending AL champions, the Kansas City Royals, Howser managed the 
1986 All-Star Game at the Astrodome in Houston. Broadcasters noticed he 
was messing up signals when he changed pitchers, and Howser later admitted 
he felt sick before the game. It was the last game he would manage in the 
major leagues, as he was diagnosed with a brain tumor and underwent surgery. 
Howser guided the AL to a 3–2 victory, starting a 30-year stretch that 
has seen the junior circuit go 22–6–1 in the Mid-Summer Classic after going 
2–21 from 1963 through 1985. Howser attempted a comeback during spring 
training of 1987 with Kansas City, but quickly found he was physically 
too weak and abandoned the attempt in late February, when Billy Gardner 
took over. Three months later, he died[2] in St. Luke's Hospital in Kansas 
City, Missouri, and was buried in Tallahassee, Florida. His death was caused 
by a brain tumor. Two pitchers from his 1981 Royals team later died of 
brain cancer: Dan Quisenberry in 1998 and Ken Brett in 2003. On July 3, 
1987, Howser's number 10 became the first number retired by the Kansas 
City Royals. Also in that year, the St. Petersburg Area Chamber of Commerce 
established the Dick Howser Trophy, college baseball's equivalent of college 
football's Heisman Trophy, in Howser's honor. Florida State University's 
baseball team plays on Mike Martin Field at Dick Howser Stadium, named 
in his honor, and he is honored with a bronze bust on the stadium grounds. 
The Royals also commissioned a new bronze statue for their Outfield Experience 
to cap off the end of Kauffman Stadium renovations in 2009. The statue 
