Richard Henry O'Connell (September 19, 1914 – August 18, 2002) was an American 
front office executive in Major League Baseball. He was executive vice 
president of the Boston Red Sox from 1961 through 1977 and served as general 
manager of the team from September 16, 1965, through October 24, 1977, 
a period during which he played a pivotal role in restoring the Red Sox 
to contending status, won two American League pennants, and helped make 
the team a flagship MLB franchise. A native of Winthrop, Massachusetts, 
O'Connell attended Boston College, earning a bachelor's degree in 1937 
and a master's degree the following year. He worked in private business 
and taught and coached athletics at Sanborn Academy, Kingston, New Hampshire, 
until the outbreak of World War II. While serving in the U.S. Navy, he 
befriended a fellow officer, Jim Britt, the radio play-by-play announcer 
for the Red Sox and Boston's National League team, the Braves. After the 
war, Britt put O'Connell in touch with the Red Sox front office, and he 
entered baseball in 1947 as business manager of the Lynn Red Sox, the Bosox' 
Class B New England League farm club. Two years later, O'Connell joined 
Boston's front office in an administrative capacity. He rose through the 
ranks, serving as "home secretary"[1] and director of stadium operations,[2] 
then became the Red Sox' business manager during the late 1950s.[3] It 
appeared that he would rise no further. Tom Yawkey, the team's owner since 
1933, wanted famous former players to head his organization, and through 
1960 his three general managers—Eddie Collins, Joe Cronin and Bucky Harris—were 
all current or future members of the Baseball Hall of Fame; Collins and 
Cronin were standout players, while Harris had won three American League 
pennants and two World Series as a field manager. With the Red Sox' great 
left fielder, Ted Williams, about to retire, and with the team's fortunes 
at a low ebb, Yawkey fired Harris in September 1960 and informally offered 
the GM post to Williams. But the future Hall-of-Fame hitter was not interested 
in an office job; he preferred to fish and teach hitting in spring training. 
As the GM seat lay vacant—but perhaps being kept warm for Williams, who 
was named an "executive assistant" to Yawkey—O'Connell was promoted to 
executive vice president; meanwhile, field manager Pinky Higgins, who had 
become a friend of Yawkey's, staked out a position as the top "baseball 
man" in the Red Sox organization. The New York Times reported on October 
1, 1960, that Higgins would assume responsibility for all player personnel 
decisions, Major and minor league, in the Boston organization, a role typically 
performed by a GM. Indeed, the club spent the 1961 and 1962 seasons without 
a full-time general manager. Although O'Connell is listed by the Red Sox 
media guide as de facto GM, he retained the title of business manager[4] 
and likely focused only on the administrative aspect of the job; it is 
unclear (and doubtful) that he had any baseball operations role. Higgins 
shed his on-field responsibilities and formally became executive vice president/GM 
at the close of the 1962 season. During the early 1960s, Boston overhauled 
its farm system and scouting operation and was beginning to produce outstanding 
talent, but the big league Red Sox continued to struggle and attendance 
dwindled. Finally, during the closing days of a dispiriting 100-loss 1965 
season, Yawkey fired Higgins and offered the general manager position to 
O'Connell on September 16. Still seen as inexperienced in baseball operations 
and talent evaluation, O'Connell initially shared power with vice president, 
player personnel Haywood Sullivan, a former Major League catcher and manager 
recruited from the Kansas City Athletics in November 1965. They worked 
together to replace fading veterans with young players during another losing 
campaign in 1966. But by 1967 O'Connell was in full command as general 
manager of the Red Sox. He promoted Dick Williams to manager and traded 
for players such as pitcher Gary Bell, infielder Jerry Adair and catcher 
Elston Howard. The Red Sox, led by Most Valuable Player Carl Yastrzemski 
and AL Cy Young Award winning pitcher Jim Lonborg, stunned the sporting 
world by winning the AL pennant and pushing the powerful St. Louis Cardinals 
to seven games in the 1967 World Series. The team's home attendance rose 
by 113 percent, from 811,172 in 1966 to 1,727,832. In recognition of the 
dramatic turnaround, O'Connell was named Executive of the Year by The Sporting 
News. The Red Sox posted winning seasons from 1968–74 and continued to 
rank among the AL leaders in home attendance, but could not match the success 
of the league's dominant teams of the era, the Detroit Tigers, Baltimore 
Orioles and Oakland Athletics. Nonetheless, Boston continued to harvest 
great talent from its farm system, including Carlton Fisk, Dwight Evans, 
Cecil Cooper, Bill Lee, John Curtis, Lynn McGlothen, Ben Oglivie, Juan 
Beníquez, Rogelio Moret, Rick Burleson, Jim Rice and Fred Lynn. The team 
also somewhat overcame its reputation for racial prejudice by increasing 
the number of African Americans and Latin Americans on its playing roster. 
In 1975, led by rookies Lynn and Rice, the Red Sox won the AL East title, 
swept defending world champion Oakland in the ALCS, and battled another 
NL powerhouse, the Cincinnati Reds, to the limit in a thrilling World Series. 
Once again, O'Connell was hailed as Executive of the Year in Major League 
Baseball. But O'Connell's tenure with the Red Sox and his baseball career 
were about to come to an end. Tom Yawkey had developed a close friendship 
with Sullivan—then playing a reduced role for the Red Sox as director of 
amateur scouting—but trusted O'Connell to be his top executive. He died 
from leukemia on July 9, 1976, nine months after the 1975 pennant. His 
widow, Jean, was both a strong ally of Sullivan's and an adversary of O'Connell's. 
She criticized O'Connell's player transactions, his willingness to negotiate 
with potential free agents Fisk, Lynn and Burleson, his signing of free 
agent relief pitcher Bill Campbell, and his attempted big-money purchase 
of Rollie Fingers and Joe Rudi from the Oakland A's in June 1976 (vetoed 
within hours by Commissioner of Baseball Bowie Kuhn). When she put the 
club up for sale in 1977, she chose—and ultimately joined—Sullivan's ownership 
group, and then fired O'Connell as GM, in favor of Sullivan, after the 
Red Sox won 97 games but finished 2½ games behind the New York Yankees 
in the pennant race. The firing ended O'Connell's baseball career, although 
almost six years later, on June 6, 1983, a bizarre postscript was added. 
A power struggle broke out among the Red Sox ownership group, and one of 
the general partners, Edward "Buddy" LeRoux, staged a coup d'état. LeRoux 
announced a takeover of the Red Sox, and fired Sullivan, his fellow general 
partner, from the GM role. Surprisingly, he unveiled O'Connell, then 68, 
as his choice to lead the team — the first time O'Connell set foot inside 
Fenway Park since his 1977 dismissal. But LeRoux' "coup" was halted by 
court order, and Sullivan remained in power. LeRoux eventually sold his 
share of the club in 1987, Mrs. Yawkey died in 1992, and Sullivan sold 
his general partnership late in 1993. Over time, O'Connell and the Red 
Sox mended fences and he was admitted to the Boston Red Sox Hall of Fame 
in 1997. Pundits hailed him as the architect who most helped to create 
Red Sox Nation by bringing the team back from near-irrelevance in 1967. 
By the time of his death, at age 87 on August 18, 2002, in Lexington, Massachusetts, 
O'Connell was recognized as one of the most important men in Red Sox annals. 
