Richard Anthony Allen (born March 8, 1942) is a former American Major League 
Baseball (MLB) player and Rhythm and Blues (R&B) singer. He played 15 seasons 
in the major leagues as a first baseman, third baseman, and outfielder 
most notably for the Philadelphia Phillies and Chicago White Sox, and is 
ranked among his sport's top offensive producers of the 1960s and early 
1970s. Allen was an All-Star for seven seasons. He won the 1964 National 
League Rookie of the Year Award and the 1972 American League Most Valuable 
Player Award. He also led the American League (AL) in home runs for two 
seasons, led the NL in slugging percentage one season and the AL two seasons, 
and led both leagues in on-base percentage each for one season. His .534 
career slugging percentage ranks among the highest in an era marked by 
low offensive production. Allen's older brother Hank was a reserve outfielder 
for three AL teams, and his younger brother Ron was briefly a first baseman 
with the 1972 St. Louis Cardinals. In 2014, Allen appeared for the first 
time as a candidate on the National Baseball Hall of Fame's Golden Era 
Committee election ballot[1] for possible Hall of Fame consideration in 
2015. He and the other candidates all missed getting elected by the committee.[2] 
The Committee meets and votes on 10 selected candidates from the 1947 to 
1972 era every three years. Allen was one vote short of the required 12 
votes needed for election.[3] Dick Allen hit a baseball with an authority 
Philadelphia fans had not seen since Chuck Klein and Jimmie Foxx. Phillies 
scout John Ogden convinced the Phillies to sign Allen in 1960 for a $70,000 
bonus. John Ogden played for the International League Baltimore Orioles 
from 1919 to 1925 under Jack Dunn, the discoverer of Babe Ruth, and later 
pitched against Ruth in the American League. Ogden stated in a Philadelphia 
Bulletin story printed on July 1, 1969, that Dick Allen was the only player 
he ever saw who hit a ball as hard as Babe Ruth.[4] Allen's playing career 
got off to a turbulent start as he faced racial harassment while playing 
for the Phillies' minor league affiliate in Little Rock; residents staged 
protest parades against Allen, the local team's first black player. Nevertheless, 
he led the league in total bases. His first season in the majors, 1964, 
ranks among the greatest rookie seasons ever.[5] He led the league in runs 
(125), triples (13), extra base hits (80) and total bases (352); he finished 
in the top five in batting average (.318), slugging average (.557), hits 
(201), and doubles (38); and won Rookie of the Year. Playing for the first 
time at third base, he led the league with 41 errors. Along with outfielder 
Johnny Callison and pitchers Chris Short and Jim Bunning, Allen led the 
Phillies to a six-and-a-half game hold on first place with 12 games to 
play in an exceptionally strong National League. The 1964 Phillies then 
lost ten straight games and finished tied for second place. The Phillies 
lost the first game of the streak to the Cincinnati Reds when Chico Ruiz 
stole home with Frank Robinson batting for the game's only run. In Allen's 
autobiography (written with Tim Whitaker), Crash: The Life and Times of 
Dick Allen, Allen stated that the play "broke our humps".[6] Despite the 
Phillies' collapse, Allen hit .438 with 5 doubles, 2 triples, 3 home runs 
and 11 RBI in those last 12 games. Allen hit a home run off the Cardinals' 
Ray Washburn in 1965 which he cleared Connie Mack Stadium's left center 
field roof Coke sign. That home run, an estimated 529-footer, inspired 
Willie Stargell to say: "Now I know why they (the Phillies fans) boo Richie 
all the time. When he hits a home run, there's no souvenir."[7] While playing 
for Philadelphia, Allen appeared on several All-Star teams including the 
1965–67 teams (in the latter of these three games, he hit a home run off 
Dean Chance). He led the league in slugging (.632), OPS (1.027) and extra 
base hits (75) in 1966. Non-baseball incidents soon marred Allen's Philadelphia 
career. In July 1965, he got into a fistfight with fellow Phillie Frank 
Thomas. According to two teammates who witnessed the fight, Thomas swung 
a bat at Allen, hitting him in the shoulder. Johnny Callison said, "Thomas 
got himself fired when he swung that bat at Richie. In baseball you don't 
swing a bat at another player—ever." Pat Corrales confirmed that Thomas 
hit Allen with a bat and added that Thomas was a "bully" known for making 
racially divisive remarks. Allen and his teammates were not permitted to 
give their side of the story under threat of a heavy fine. The Phillies 
released Thomas the next day. That not only made the fans and local sports 
writers see Allen as costing a white player his job, but freed Thomas to 
give his version of the fight.[8] In an hour-long interview aired December 
15, 2009, on the MLB Network's Studio 42 with Bob Costas, Allen asserted 
that he and Thomas are in fact good friends now.[9] Allen's name was a 
source of controversy: he had been known since his youth as "Dick" to family 
and friends, but for reasons which are still somewhat obscure, the media 
referred to him upon his arrival in Philadelphia as "Richie", possibly 
a conflation with the longtime Phillies star Richie Ashburn.[citation needed] 
After leaving the Phillies, he asked to be called "Dick", saying Richie 
was a little boy's name. In his dual career as an R&B singer, the label 
on his records with the Groovy Grooves firm slated him as "Rich" Allen.[10] 
Some of the Phillies' own fans, known for being tough on hometown players 
even in the best of times, exacerbated Allen's problems. Initially the 
abuse was verbal, with obscenities and racial epithets. Eventually Allen 
was greeted with showers of fruit, ice, refuse, and even flashlight batteries 
as he took the field. He began wearing his batting helmet even while playing 
his position in the field, which gave rise to another nickname, "Crash 
Helmet", shortened to "Crash".[citation needed] He almost ended his career 
in 1967 after mangling his throwing hand by pushing it through a car headlight. 
Allen was fined $2,500 and suspended indefinitely in 1969 when he failed 
to appear for the Phillies twi-night doubleheader game with the New York 
Mets. Allen had gone to New Jersey in the morning to see a horse race, 
and got caught in traffic trying to return.[11] (He was reinstated, but 
wanted to be traded. Due to problems in having a trade made right then, 
he agreed to finish the 1969 season with the Phillies.[citation needed]) 
Allen finally had enough, and demanded the Phillies trade him. They sent 
him to the Cardinals in a trade before the 1970 season. Even this deal 
caused controversy, though not of Allen's making, since Cardinals outfielder 
Curt Flood refused to report to the Phillies as part of the trade. (Flood 
then sued baseball in an unsuccessful attempt to overthrow the reserve 
clause and to be declared a free agent.) Coincidentally, the player the 
Phillies received as compensation for Flood not reporting, Willie Montañez, 
hit 30 home runs as a 1971 rookie to eclipse Dick Allen's Phillies rookie 
home run record of 29, set in 1964.[12] Allen earned another All-Star berth 
in St. Louis, and his personal problems seemed to abate. The Cardinals 
even acceded to his wishes regarding his name, as Cardinals broadcaster 
Jack Buck made a point from game one of calling him "Dick Allen." Decades 
before Mark McGwire, Dick Allen entertained the St. Louis fans with some 
long home runs, at least one of them landing in the seats above the club 
level in left field. As Jack Buck said at the time, "Some of the folks 
in the stadium club might have choked on a chicken leg when they saw that 
one coming!"[citation needed] Nevertheless, the Cardinals traded Allen 
to the Los Angeles Dodgers before the 1971 season for 1969 NL Rookie of 
the Year Ted Sizemore and catcher Bob Stinson, the LA Dodgers 1966 first 
round draft pick. Allen had a relatively quiet season in 1971 although 
he hit .295 for the Dodgers. The Dodgers traded Allen to the White Sox 
for pitcher Tommy John prior to the 1972 season. For various reasons, Allen's 
previous managers had shuffled him around on defense, playing him at first 
base, third base, and the outfield in no particular order—a practice which 
almost certainly weakened his defensive play, and which may have contributed 
to his frequent injuries, not to mention his perceived bad attitude. Sox 
manager Chuck Tanner's low-key style of handling ballplayers made it possible 
for Allen to thrive, for a while, on the South Side. He decided to play 
Allen exclusively at first base, which allowed him to concentrate on hitting. 
That first year, his first in the American League, Allen almost single-handedly 
lifted the entire team to second place in the AL West, as he led the league 
in home runs (37) (setting a team record), RBI (113), walks (99), on-base 
percentage (.422), slugging average (.603), and OPS (1.023), while winning 
a well-deserved MVP award. However, the Sox fell short at the end and finished 
5 1⁄2 games behind the World Series–bound Oakland Athletics. Allen's feats 
during his years with the White Sox—particularly in that MVP season of 
1972—are spoken of reverently by South Side fans who credit him with saving 
the franchise for Chicago (it was rumored to be bound for St. Petersburg 
or Seattle at the time). His powerful swing sent home runs deep into some 
of cavernous old Comiskey Park's farthest reaches, including the roof and 
even the distant (445 ft) center field bleachers, a rare feat at one of 
baseball's most pitcher-friendly stadiums. On July 31, 1972, Allen became 
the first player in baseball's "modern era" to hit two inside-the-park 
home runs in one game. Both homers were hit off Bert Blyleven in the White 
Sox' 8-1 victory over the Minnesota Twins at Metropolitan Stadium. On July 
6, 1974, at Detroit's Tiger Stadium, he lined a homer off the roof facade 
in deep left-center field at a linear distance of approximately 415 feet 
(126 m) and an altitude of 85 feet (26 m). Anecdotal and mathematical evidence 
agreed that Allen's clout would've easily surpassed 500 ft (150 m) on the 
fly.[13] The Sox were favored by many to make the playoffs in 1973, but 
those hopes were dashed due in large measure to the fractured fibula that 
Allen suffered in June. (He tried to return five weeks after injuring the 
leg in a collision with Mike Epstein of the A's, but the pain ended his 
season after just one game in which he batted 3-for-5.) In 1974, despite 
his making the AL All-Star team in each of the three years with the Sox, 
Allen's stay in Chicago ended in controversy when he left the team on September 
14 with two weeks left in the season. In his autobiography, Allen blamed 
his feud with third-baseman Ron Santo, who was playing a final, undistinguished 
season with the White Sox after leaving the crosstown Chicago Cubs.[14] 
With Allen's intention to continue playing baseball uncertain, the White 
Sox reluctantly sold his contract to the Atlanta Braves for only $5,000, 
despite the fact that he had led the league in home runs, slugging (.563), 
and OPS (.938). Allen refused to report to the Braves and announced his 
retirement. The Phillies managed to coax Allen out of retirement for the 
1975 season. The lay-off and nagging effects of his 1973 broken leg hampered 
his play. His numbers improved in 1976, a Phillies division winner, as 
he hit 15 home runs and batted .268 in 85 games. He continued his tape 
measure legacy during his second go-round with the Phillies. On August 
22, 1975, Allen smashed a homer into the seldom reached upperdeck at San 
Diego's Qualcomm (née Jack Murphy) Stadium. Allen played in 54 games and 
hit 5 HR's with 31 RBI's during his final season for the Oakland Athletics 
in 1977 before leaving the team abruptly in June of that season. Dick Allen 
sang professionally in a high, delicate tenor. The tone and texture of 
his voice has drawn comparisons to Harptones' lead singer Willie Winfield.[15] 
During Allen's time with the Sixties-era Phillies, he sang lead with a 
doo-wop group called The Ebonistics. Dick Allen and The Ebonistics sang 
professionally at Philadelphia night clubs. He once entertained during 
halftime of an NBA Philadelphia 76ers game. The Philadelphia Inquirer printed 
a review of his performance: Here came Rich Allen. Flowered shirt. Tie 
six-inches (152 mm) wide. Hiphugger bell-bottomed pants. A microphone in 
his hands. Rich Allen, the most booed man in Philadelphia from April to 
October, when Eagles coach Joe Kuharich takes over, walked out in front 
of 9,557 people at the Spectrum last night to sing with his group, The 
Ebonistics, and a most predictable thing happened. He was booed. Two songs 
later though, a most unpredictable thing happened. They cheered Rich Allen. 
They cheered him as warmly as they have ever cheered him for a game-winning 
home run.[16] Although his music career was not as substantial or long-lasting 
as that of Milwaukee Braves outfielder Arthur Lee Maye, Allen gained lasting 
praise for a recording on the Groovy Grooves label titled, "Echoes of November." 
The song is featured in the Philles official hundred-year anniversary video 
and the novel '64 Intruder.[17] In 2010, Brazilian pop star Ana Volans 
rerecorded "Echoes of November;" her rendition sold briskly in Brazil. 
(The CD's jacket contains a dedication to Dick Allen and his Hall of Fame 
candidacy.)[18] Nearly forty years after retiring, Allen remains a much 
discussed and still controversial ballplayer. An increasing number of Baseball 
historians regard him as the best player not inducted into the Baseball 
Hall of Fame.[19] Allen appeared on the Hall of Fame's 2014 Golden Era 
Committee ballot (the committee votes every three years since 2011 when 
Ron Santo was elected by the committee) of 10 selected candidates (selected 
by a committee of the Baseball Writers' Association of America) from the 
1947 to 1972 era[1] for consideration of Hall of Fame enshrinement in 2015. 
Allen and Tony Oliva were both one vote short of the required 12 votes 
by the committee which elected none of the candidates.[20] Sabermetrician 
Bill James rated Dick Allen as the second-most controversial player in 
baseball history, behind Rogers Hornsby.[21] James called Allen's autobiography, 
Crash, "one of the best baseball books in recent years".[22] For many years 
Allen held the distinction of the highest slugging percentage among players 
eligible for but not in the National Baseball Hall of Fame. This only ended 
in 2006, when Albert Belle became eligible but was not elected. Allen Barra 
wrote in his Wall Street Journal sports column that "A growing body of 
baseball historians think that Dick Allen is the best player eligible for 
the Hall of Fame." [19] The arguments usually center around his very high 
career averages, batting (.292), slugging (.534), and on-base (.378). They 
also point out that he began his career during the mid-1960s, a period 
so dominated by pitchers that it is sometimes called the "second dead ball 
era" [23] Of the Major League batters with 500 or more career home runs 
whose play intersected Dick Allen's career at the beginning or end, only 
Mickey Mantle's lifetime OPS+ of 172 topped Dick Allen's lifetime 156 OPS+ 
[24] His career OPS+ is the second highest of any retired player not in 
the Hall of Fame (only topped by Mark Mcgwire). Allen also played some 
of his career in pitcher-friendly parks such as Busch Memorial Stadium, 
Dodger Stadium, and Comiskey Park.[25] In addition to hitting for high 
offensive percentages, Allen displayed prodigious power. Before scientific 
weight training, muscle-building dietary supplements, and anabolic steroids, 
Allen boasted a powerful and muscular physique along the lines of Mickey 
Mantle and Jimmie Foxx. Indeed, baseball historian Bill Jenkinson ranks 
Allen with Foxx and Mantle, and just a notch below Babe Ruth, as the four 
top long-distance sluggers ever to wield a baseball bat.[26] A segment 
of MLB Network's Prime 9 concurred with Jenkinson's findings. On that same 
broadcast, Willie Mays stated that Allen hit a ball harder than any player 
he had ever seen.[27] Dick Allen, like Babe Ruth, hit with a rather heavy 
bat. Allen's 40-ouncer bucked the Ted Williams-inspired trend of using 
a light bat for increased bat speed. Allen combined massive strength and 
body torque to produce bat speed and drive the ball. Two of his drives 
cleared Connie Mack Stadium's 65-foot-high left field grandstand.[26] Twice 
Allen cleared that park's 65-foot-high right center field scoreboard: a 
feat considered virtually impossible for a right-handed hitter.[26] Detractors 
of Allen's Hall of Fame credentials argue that his career was not as long 
as most Hall of Famers, so he does not have the career cumulative numbers 
that others do. They further argue that the controversies surrounding him 
negatively impacted his teams.[28] Hall of Fame player Willie Stargell 
countered with a historical perspective of Dick Allen's time: "Dick Allen 
played the game in the most conservative era in baseball history. It was 
a time of change and protest in the country, and baseball reacted against 
all that. They saw it as a threat to the game. The sportswriters were reactionary 
too. They didn't like seeing a man of such extraordinary skills doing it 
his way. It made them nervous. Dick Allen was ahead of his time. His views 
and way of doing things would go unnoticed today. If I had been manager 
of the Phillies back when he was playing, I would have found a way to make 
Dick Allen comfortable. I would have told him to blow off the writers. 
It was my observation that when Dick Allen was comfortable, balls left 
the park."[29] The two managers for whom Allen played the longest—Gene 
Mauch of the Phillies and Chuck Tanner of the White Sox—agreed with Willie 
Stargell that Allen was not a "clubhouse lawyer" who harmed team chemistry. 
Asked if Allen's behavior ever had a negative influence on the team, Mauch 
said, "Never. Dick's teammates always liked him. I'd take him in a minute."[19] 
According to Tanner, "Dick was the leader of our team, the captain, the 
manager on the field. He took care of the young kids, took them under his 
wing. And he played every game as if it was his last day on earth."[30] 
Hall of Fame player Orlando Cepeda agreed, saying to author Tim Whitaker, 
"Dick Allen played with fire in his eyes." [31] Hall of Fame teammate Rich 
Gossage also confirmed Tanner's view. In an interview with USA TODAY Sports, 
Gossage said: "I've been around the game a long time, and he's the greatest 
player I've ever seen play in my life. He had the most amazing season (1972) 
I've ever seen. He's the smartest baseball man I've ever been around in 
my life. He taught me how to pitch from a hitter's prospective, and taught 
me how to play the game right. There's no telling the numbers this guy 
could have put up if all he worried about was stats. The guy belongs in 
the Hall of Fame." [32] Another of Allen's ex-White Sox teammates, pitcher 
Stan Bahnsen, said, "I actually thought that Dick was better than his stats. 
Every time we needed a clutch hit, he got it. He got along great with his 
teammates and he was very knowledgeable about the game. He was the ultimate 
team guy."[33] Another Hall of Fame teammate, Mike Schmidt, credited Dick 
Allen in his book, Clearing the Bases, as his mentor.[34] In Schmidt's 
biography, written by historian William C. Kashatus, Schmidt fondly recalls 
Allen mentoring him before a game in Chicago in 1976, saying to him, "Mike, 
you've got to relax. You've got to have some fun. Remember when you were 
just a kid and you'd skip supper to play ball? You were having fun. Hey, 
with all the talent you've got, baseball ought to be fun. Enjoy it. Be 
a kid again." Schmidt responded by hitting four home runs in that game. 
Mike Schmidt is quoted in the same book, "The baseball writers used to 
claim that Dick would divide the clubhouse along racial lines. That was 
