Dick's Sporting Goods, Inc., or Dick's, is a Fortune 500 American corporation 
in the sporting goods and retail industries headquartered in Findlay Township, 
Pennsylvania, in Greater Pittsburgh, with a mailing address of nearby Coraopolis.[8][9] 
Dick's has 610 stores in all states except Alaska, Hawaii and Montana as 
of mid-March 2015[update],[1] primarily in the eastern half of the United 
States. The company also owns Golf Galaxy, Inc., a golf specialty retailer, 
with 82 stores in 30 states. The company also operates specialty chains 
True Runner and Field & Stream.[10][11] Founded in 1948 by Richard "Dick" 
Stack, the chain has expanded to become one of the largest sporting goods 
retailers in the world. In 1948, at the age of 18, Dick Stack worked at 
an Army/Navy store in his hometown of Binghamton, New York, after World 
War II. At the owner’s request, "Dick" explored the idea of expanding the 
product line to include fishing and camping supplies, but the owner rejected 
Dick's suggestions, stating that Dick “would never make a good merchant.” 
When Dick recounted his story later that day, his grandmother advised, 
“Dick, always follow your dreams,” and gave him $300 from her savings. 
He rented a storefront and opened the first Dick's as a small "bait & tackle" 
fishing supply store, on Court Street near Howard Avenue.[12] In the mid-1950s, 
the store expanded into the market of general sports merchandise and by 
the early 1960s, he was able to build and open a new store on the corner 
of Oliver and Court St., naming it "Dick's Sporting Goods". The store prospered, 
and Dick eventually opened a second store in Vestal, New York. In the 1970s, 
the Binghamton store moved next door to an even larger facility. Dick Stack 
headed the organization until his retirement in 1984. Dick Stack's son, 
Edward "Eddie" Stack, succeeded him in the leadership of the company, expanding 
the two-store business rapidly. Edward W. Stack has served as Chairman 
and Chief Executive Officer of Dick's Sporting Goods since 1984, having 
started with the company full-time in 1977, and gradually working his way 
up in a variety of positions, including store clerk, merchandise manager, 
store manager and president. In the early 1990s, Dick's began chain operations, 
opening additional stores across Upstate New York.[13] In 1994, Dick's 
moved its headquarters from Binghamton, New York to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.[14] 
In January 2016, Dick's launched Team Sports HQ, a platform of services 
for youth sport leagues. Services offered include software for online registration 
and team/league websites; custom uniforms and FanWear; and access to donations 
and sponsorships.[15] The company used the e-tailing Web site dickssportinggoods.com, 
operated by GSI Commerce under license and e-commerce agreements. Because 
the e-commerce site was operated under a company separate from Dick's Sporting 
Goods, the site often carried a wider selection than what is available 
in the stores with prices occasionally varying.[16] Starting in 2013, the 
company began using a ship-from-store platform for online orders. This 
means that the company has a detailed inventory for every store, and pulls 
new and used inventory from a local store to fulfill online orders to reduce 
shipping costs. As of March 2009, customers may return items purchased 
from the Web site.[17] The company sponsors a number of sporting events, 
including: Professional sports teams sponsored by Dick's include the NHL's 
Pittsburgh Penguins and Colorado Avalanche, and the Colorado Rapids of 
the MLS. Dick's has also sponsored SportsMatter.com, a crowdfunding site 
to help support underfunded youth sports leagues.[18] Dick's Sporting Goods 
opened in Florida and California in 1997. Seven years later, the chain 
acquired the entirety of Galyan's, an Indiana-based sporting chain. They 
also acquired Golf Galaxy and Chick's in 2007. Plans were announced in 
2010 to open its first store in Washington state (Puyallup) "with six more 
locations [in Oregon] 'coming soon.'"[25] Oklahoma (Broken Arrow)[26] and 
Idaho (Pocatello) followed in 2011,[27] then New Mexico (Albuquerque) in 
2012.[28] On August 16, 2013, Dick's Sporting Goods opened its first Field 
& Stream Shop in Cranberry Township, Pennsylvania at the site of the former 
Dick's location in Cranberry (Dick's had moved to a newer location nearby 
in 2012), operating as a competitor to Cabela's.[29] Willie Robertson of 
the reality television series Duck Dynasty made a speaking appearance at 
a wedding at the store, with both participants dressed in camouflage,[30] 
as well as retired WWE wrestler Shawn Michaels (currently hosting MacMillan 
River Adventures on the Outdoor Channel) appearing at the store to sign 
autographs for the grand opening.[31] Later in the month, the store began 
selling AR-15 semi-automatic rifles,[32] ending the chain's 2012 self-imposed 
suspension of sales of certain semi-automatic firearms following the Sandy 
Hook Elementary School shooting.[33] Dick's has plans to open at least 
two more Field & Stream Shop locations in Erie, Pennsylvania (on the site 
of a proposed Cabela's store that Dick's had purchased before Cabela's 
had a chance to buy it) and Crescent Springs, Kentucky.[29] Dick's had 
bought the retail-related intellectual property rights to the Field & Stream 
name from the magazine's owner Bonnier Corporation in 2012 after having 
licensed the name for several years before. Bonnier remains owner of the 
magazine.[29] On June 30, 2016, Dick's Sporting Goods purchased the intellectual 
property of now-defunct Sports Authority in an auction. The sale was approved 
on July 21, 2016. In August 2016, Dick's purchased San Diego-based Affinity 
Sports, a sports management technology company. Affinity will expand the 
scope of the Team Sports HQ platform by offering management technology 
for large-scale sports organizations and national governing bodies.[15] 
Dick's Sporting Goods (ex-Galyan's) storefront at SouthPark Mall, Charlotte, 
North Carolina. Dick's Sporting Goods (ex-Galyan's) storefront at Westroads 
Mall, Omaha, Nebraska. The typical Lodge section of a contemporary Dick's 
Sporting Goods store. Court Street store, Binghamton, New York. This store 
has been in operation since the 1960s and is a fraction of the modern stores' 
sizes. The apostrophe in the Dick's Sporting Goods logo contains several 
balls; the most common version includes a golf ball, baseball, soccer ball 
