DirecTV (stylized as DIRECTV) is an American direct broadcast satellite 
service provider and broadcaster based in El Segundo, California. As of 
July 2015, it is a subsidiary of AT&T. Its satellite service, launched 
on June 17, 1994, transmits digital satellite television and audio to households 
in the United States, Latin America and the Caribbean.[3][4] Its primary 
competitors are Dish Network and cable television providers. After receiving 
approval from the United States Federal Communications Commission and United 
States Department of Justice, AT&T's acquisition of DirecTV in a transaction 
valued at $48.5 billion[5] was completed on July 24, 2015.[6] DirecTV provides 
television and audio services to subscribers through satellite transmissions. 
Services include the equivalent of many local television stations, broadcast 
television networks, subscription television services, satellite radio 
services, and private video services. Subscribers have access to hundreds 
of channels, so its competitors are cable television service and other 
satellite-based services.[7] Most subscribers use reception antennas which 
are much smaller than the first generation antennas, which were typically 
a few yards (meters) across. Advances in antenna technology, including 
fractal antennas, have allowed a general reduction in antenna size across 
all industries and applications. Receiving equipment includes a satellite 
dish, an integrated receiver/decoder and a DirecTV access card, which is 
necessary to operate the receiver/decoder.[8] Consumers who purchase DirecTV 
subscribe to various packages of DirecTV programming for which the subscriber 
pays a monthly fee. Additional monthly fees may include a protection plan 
(which provides for repair or replacement of consumer-leased equipment 
from damages caused by lightning, power surges, floods, etc.), DVR, additional 
receivers, HD channels, and other premium channel packages. A subscriber 
also can order pay-per-view and video on demand events and movies. DirecTV 
contracts with and pays program providers such as cable networks, motion 
picture distributors, sports leagues, event promoters, and other programming 
rights holders, for the right to distribute their programming to its subscribers. 
All programming distributed by DirecTV is delivered to its broadcast centers 
in Castle Rock, Colorado, and Los Angeles, where it is then digitized and 
compressed. The resulting signal is encrypted by DirecTV to prevent its 
unauthorized reception. DirecTV then transmits these signals to several 
satellites located in geostationary orbit.[8] As of the quarter (Q3) ended 
September 30, 2012, DirecTV U.S. had 19.981 million subscribers and revenues 
for the quarter of US$5.769 billion. For the same period, DirecTV Latin 
America ended with 9.666 million subscribers and revenues of US$1.577 billion.[9] 
In addition to serving residences, DirecTV offers service to bars, restaurants, 
hotels, dorms, and hospitals through their DirecTV for business service. 
The company also offered mobile service for cars, boats, and RVs (DirecTV 
Mobile) as well as aircraft (DirecTV Airborne) in cooperation with Connexion 
by Boeing. Beginning in November 2016, DirecTV Now will be an internet 
streaming TV service.[10] In 1953, Howard Hughes created the Howard Hughes 
Medical Institute (HHMI), to which he transferred full ownership of Hughes 
Aircraft.[citation needed] Ostensibly created as a non-profit medical research 
foundation, HHMI was accused of being used by Hughes as a tax shelter.[citation 
needed] Following Hughes' death in 1976, HHMI was incorporated in 1977, 
and litigation ensued to determine whether it would be allowed to maintain 
its interest in Hughes Aircraft.[citation needed] In 1984, the court appointed 
a new board for HHMI, which proceeded to sell off Hughes Aircraft to General 
Motors on December 20, 1985, for an estimated $5.1 billion.[11] General 
Motors then merged Hughes Aircraft with its subsidiary Delco Electronics 
to create Hughes Electronics Corporation.[citation needed] The new subsidiary 
was initially composed of four units: Delco Electronics Company, Hughes 
Aircraft Company, Hughes Space and Communications Company, and Hughes Network 
Systems.[citation needed] Stanley E. Hubbard founded United States Satellite 
Broadcasting (USSB) in 1981 and was a leading proponent for the development 
of direct-broadcast satellite service in the United States.[citation needed] 
USSB was awarded five frequencies by the FCC, at the coveted 101 degree 
west satellite location.[citation needed] Hughes Communications, Inc. was 
also awarded 27 frequencies at the same 101-degree location.[citation needed] 
After many years, the technology was developed to enable the building of 
very high-power satellites, and digital compression (MPEG-2) standards 
were developed that allowed multiple digital television channels to be 
sent through each satellite frequency.[citation needed] Hughes attempted 
to create a joint venture with NBC, News Corp., and Cablevision in 1990, 
to launch the first high-power digital television service called Sky Cable.[12] 
Failing to do so, the company instead created DirecTV as a separate division, 
and secured an agreement with USSB to build and launch the first high-power 
direct-broadcast satellite system.[citation needed] DirecTV's name is a 
portmanteau of "direct" and "TV" (as in direct broadcast satellite television).[citation 
needed] Hughes/DirecTV then turned to Thomson Consumer Electronics (under 
the RCA, GE, and ProScan brands) to develop the digital satellite system 
for the service that would be capable of receiving 175 channels on a small 
18-inch dish.[citation needed] These dishes utilized a new generation of 
smaller, lighter receiver dishes based on military technology introduced 
by the Global Broadcast System, which predated DirecTV's viability by almost 
ten years.[citation needed] Hughes was awarded the contract to build and 
launch the new high-powered satellites, and USSB and DirecTV agreed that 
the new satellites would carry the two separate programming services: USSB 
and DirecTV.[citation needed] The USSB and DirecTV programming services 
were launched on June 17, 1994.[citation needed] Digital Equipment Corporation 
provided the hardware for DirecTV, Matrixx Marketing (part of Cincinnati 
Bell) provided customer care via the Matrixx Plus department, and DBS Systems 
created the billing software.[citation needed] In December 1998, DirecTV 
acquired USSB for $1.3 billion, and combined the two satellite services.[13] 
In 1999, DirecTV acquired PrimeStar, a competitor in the satellite television 
industry, for $1.83 billion, dramatically increasing its share of the satellite 
television market in the US.[14] In September 1996, Hughes purchased 70% 
of PanAmSat for $3 billion.[15] In 1997, GM spun off Delco Electronics 
from Hughes and transferred it to Delphi Automotive Systems.[16] That same 
year, Hughes Aircraft was sold to Raytheon for $9.5 billion.[17] Raytheon 
filed a lawsuit in 1999 accusing Hughes of overstating the value of Hughes 
Aircraft by $1 billion.[18] A $635.5-million settlement was reached in 
2001.[19] In 2000, Hughes Space and Communications was sold to Boeing for 
$3.75 billion,[20] which it later claimed had also been overvalued by Hughes. 
Hughes later settled with Boeing for $360 million.[21] These sales left 
DirecTV, PanAmSat and Hughes Network Systems as the remaining components 
of Hughes Electronics. In September 2000, GM executives, under pressure 
from GM's shareholders as a result of its poor performance and the substantially 
greater market worth of Hughes, authorized Hughes executives to begin seeking 
buyers.[22] In 2001, News Corporation began negotiations to acquire Hughes 
Electronics in a deal worth $8 billion, which would allow News Corp. to 
expand its Sky Global Networks satellite television operations into the 
United States.[23] Negotiations with News Corp. ultimately failed, and 
Hughes entered into an agreement on October 28, 2001 to be purchased for 
$26 billion by EchoStar, owner of Dish Network.[24] However, the deal attracted 
significant opposition from the Department of Justice and the Federal Communications 
Commission for antitrust concerns, leading the two companies to withdraw 
the agreement in December 2002.[25] As part of the merger agreement, EchoStar 
was required to pay Hughes $600 million for the failure of the merger.[25] 
On April 9, 2003, News Corporation agreed to purchase a 34% controlling 
interest in Hughes, including GM's entire share of the company, for $6.6 
billion, subject to SEC approval.[26] As part of the financing for the 
deal, Liberty Media agreed to take a $500-million option of stock in News 
Corporation that would be exercised upon the closing of the deal. Liberty, 
the second-largest shareholder in News Corp. after the Murdoch family with 
18%, had originally planned to bid for DirecTV, but opted not to upon the 
agreement.[26] The FCC voted 3-2 along party lines on December 19, 2003 
to approve the deal subject to conditions, forcing News Corp. to agree 
to arbitration for all disputes with carriers of its media broadcasters, 
and to provide content through DirecTV neutrally rather than favoring its 
own networks.[27] In February 2004, Hughes announced its intent to focus 
solely on its satellite television operations and divest its other interests, 
renaming itself The DirecTV Group, Inc. on March 16, 2004 and changing 
its ticker symbol from "HS" to "DTV".[28] In April of that year, it sold 
its controlling interest in PanAmSat to a private consortium led by Kohlberg 
Kravis Roberts for $3.53 billion.[29] On April 22, 2005, DirecTV spun off 
Hughes Network Systems into a separate entity and sold 50% of the new entity 
to SkyTerra, acquiring $157.4 million in the transaction.[30] In January 
2006, DirecTV sold its remaining 50% share in Hughes Network Systems to 
SkyTerra for $100 million.[31] The sale effectively ended DirecTV's 20-year 
existence through Hughes Electronics as a technology conglomerate, leaving 
it solely with its satellite television services. In 2004, DirecTV abandoned 
the Mexican market, though it maintained 41% ownership of SKY México.[32] 
On November 15, 2005, DirecTV stopped carrying Music Choice audio-only 
channels, replacing it with 73 channels of XM Satellite Radio. In 2007, 
DirecTV abandoned the Brazilian market, with the customers being migrated 
to the 74% DirecTV-owned Brazilian affiliate of SKY Brasil.[32] In 2010, 
DirecTV increased its stake in Sky Brasil to 93%. On January 9, 2007, DirecTV 
announced they would introduce up to 100 national HD channels during 2007, 
all of which would be MPEG-4 encoded.[33] On October 3, 2008, DirecTV announced 
that it would offer HD local channels in 121 markets by year end.[34] In 
December 2006, News Corporation announced its intention to transfer its 
38.5% controlling interest in The DirecTV Group, four regional Fox Sports 
Net stations and $550 million cash to Liberty Media in exchange for Liberty's 
19% interest in News Corp., giving the Murdoch family tighter control of 
the latter firm.[35] The deal, valued at $11 billion, was approved by News 
Corp. shareholders in April 2007.[36] Following revisions that increased 
the cash offer to $625 million in exchange for a reduction of Liberty's 
divested interest in News Corp. to 16%, the swap was completed on February 
27, 2008 following Federal Communications Commission (FCC) approval.[37] 
One condition placed by the FCC on the deal was that Liberty divest either 
its DirecTV operations or Liberty Global's cable operations in Puerto Rico, 
which Liberty fulfilled by placing DirecTV's Puerto Rican operations in 
a trust.[38] On May 4, 2009, Liberty announced that it would split off 
Liberty Entertainment, Inc., a subsidiary of Liberty owning the four FSN 
channels acquired under the swap with News Corp. and Liberty's 65% interest 
in Game Show Network, into a separate company to be merged with The DirecTV 
Group, reducing Liberty owner John Malone's stake in DirecTV to 24%.[39] 
The merger was completed on November 19, 2009, with The DirecTV Group and 
Liberty Entertainment becoming subsidiaries of a new company named DirecTV.[40] 
On June 16, 2010, Malone exchanged his preferred stock in DirecTV with 
equivalent amounts of common stock, reducing his voting interest in the 
company from 24% to 3%, with Malone resigning as Chairman and ending his 
managerial role at DirecTV.[41] On February 9, 2010, DirecTV dropped Sirius 
XM Radio and replaced the channel lineup with Sonic Tap audio stations.[42] 
On April 1, 2011, DirecTV announced it would be renaming its three FSN 
channels as Root Sports, though the channels are still affiliated with 
FSN.[43] On May 18, 2014, AT&T announced that it would purchase DirecTV.[46][47] 
In the deal, which had been approved by boards of both companies, DirecTV 
stockholders received $95 a share in cash and stock, valuing the deal at 
$48.5 billion. Including assumed debt, the total purchase price was about 
$67.1 billion. The deal was aimed at increasing AT&T's market share in 
the pay-TV sector; its existing U-verse brand had modest market share (5.7 
million users compared to DirecTV's 20 million US customers as of 2014) 
and operates in only 22 states. It also gave AT&T access to fast-growing 
Latin American markets, where DirecTV has 18 million subscribers. The deal 
faced regulatory approval by the FCC, the U.S. Department of Justice, and 
some Latin American governments. It was expected to take about 12 months 
to complete.[48] The deal was also contingent on the combined company's 
ability to renew its exclusive rights to carry the NFL Sunday Ticket service 
beyond the 2015 NFL season on "substantially the terms discussed between 
the parties."[49] The acquisition was officially approved by the FCC on 
July 24, 2015; it is subject to conditions for four years, requiring AT&T 
to expand its fiberoptic broadband service to additional customers, public 
libraries, and schools, and to "refrain from imposing discriminatory usage-based 
allowances or other discriminatory retail terms and conditions on its broadband 
internet service".[50][51] At an analyst meeting in August 2015, AT&T announced 
plans to converge DirecTV and its IPTV-based U-verse service around a common 
"home entertainment gateway" platform based upon DirecTV hardware, with 
"very thin hardware profiles". AT&T Entertainment and Internet Services 
CEO John Stankey explained that the new platform would offer "single truck 
roll installation for multiple products, live local streaming, improved 
content portability, over-the-top integration for mobile broadband, and 
user interface re-engineering. All of these are steps that are planned 
to deliver that premium effortless entertainment experience anywhere."[52][53][54] 
In September 2015, AT&T selected Ericsson to be hardware provider for the 
new platform, and hired former Sirius XM, Cisco Systems and Microsoft executive 
VP Enrique Rodriguez to be vice president and CTO of the AT&T Entertainment 
and Internet Services division.[55][56] On December 2, 2015, AT&T announced 
plans to phase out the DirecTV brand as part of the introduction of the 
new platform, which will be marketed as AT&T Entertainment. The company 
also adopted a new logo, replacing its previous emblem with that of AT&T.[57][58][59] 
In February 2016, Bloomberg reported that AT&T was in the process of phasing 
out the U-verse IPTV service by encouraging new customers to purchase DirecTV 
satellite service instead, and by ending the production of new set-top 
boxes for the service. An AT&T spokesperson denied that U-verse was being 
shut down, and explained that the company was "leading its video marketing 
approach with DirecTV" to "realize the many benefits" of the purchase, 
but would still recommend U-verse TV if it better-suited a customer's needs. 
at&t CFO John Stephens had also previously stated that DirecTV's larger 
subscriber base as a national service gave the service a higher degree 
of leverage in negotiating carriage deals, thus resulting in lower content 
costs.[60][61][62] On October 20, 2016, it was reported that AT&T was in 
talks to acquire Time Warner, in an effort to increase its media holdings.[63][64][65] 
On October 22, 2016, AT&T reached a deal to buy Time Warner for over $80 
billion. If approved by federal regulators, the merger would bring DirecTV 
under the same umbrella as HBO, Turner Broadcasting System and the Warner 
Bros. studio.[66][67] On March 1, 2016, AT&T announced plans for several 
DirecTV-branded over-the-top services, including DirecTV Now—a contract-free 
over-the-top internet television service, DirecTV Mobile—a service which 
will offer "premium video and made for digital content" for phones, and 
DirecTV Preview, an ad-supported service featuring content from Audience 
Network, Otter Media, and other partners.[68][69][70] DirecTV Now will 
launch in November 2016, and directly compete against Sling TV and PlayStation 
Vue. AT&T CEO Randall Stephenson stated of the service that "there is a 
huge customer base out there that we are convinced, while they don't subscribe 
to a bundle of premium content today, at the right price point [delivered] 
over-the-top, they will."[71] As of June 2016[update], DirecTV manages 
a fleet of 13 satellites in geostationary orbit at positions ranging from 
95°W to 119°W, ensuring strong coverage of the North American continent. 
In the past, receivers were manufactured by DirecTV and other companies, 
including Samsung Electronics, Philips, Sony Electronics, Panasonic, Mitsubishi 
Electronics, and Toshiba. Other companies' DirecTV receivers have been 
phased out and DirecTV now designs their own models with companies such 
as Pace Micro Technology of Britain, LG of South Korea (which had manufactured 
boxes under the LG and Zenith Electronics names), and Thomson of France 
(which had previously manufactured boxes under the RCA name, GE (under 
license), and the ProScan brand). DirecTV and TiVo announced on September 
3, 2008, that they will work together to develop a version of the TiVo 
service for DirecTV's broadband-enabled HD DVR platform.[72] Originally 
scheduled to launch in the second half of 2009, it was expected to be available 
in spring 2010 but delayed again.[73] It was finally released on December 
6, 2011.[74] The new unit, model THR22, is now available in select markets.[75][76] 
The THR22 DVR does not have all the features of the HR24 DVRs.[77] DirecTV 
typically uses a fixed 18-inch-diameter (460 mm) dish antenna to receive 
its signals. Traditionally an 18×24-inch elliptical was used; however, 
most new installations use an 18×20-inch antenna to receive signals from 
three geostationary satellite positions simultaneously. These systems are 
becoming more common as DirecTV attempts to squeeze more programming onto 
its growing systems. DTV is now installing a dish that has five LNBs for 
HDTV programming and local channels in selected markets. These systems 
receive signals from up to five separate satellites in both the Ku band 
and Ka band. After the new satellite, DirecTV 11, is fully operational, 
DirecTV will stop supplying dual, triple, and five-LNB dishes to all customers 
and move to supplying a three-LNB Ka/Ku dish known as the Slimline3. This 
dish will see orbital locations 99, 101, and 103 degrees West. The Slimline3 
will be the new standard install dish (for HD and SD programming), while 
the five-LNB Slimline will be used for installs in areas that receive local 
or international programming from orbital locations 110 or 119. The Slimline3 
looks nearly identical to its predecessor, aside from a smaller LNB. The 
new DirecTV HD channels require an H20/HR20 or H21/HR21/HR22/HR23/H24/HR24 
set top box (STB). In order to receive the new HD channels (channels added 
after September 2007), all HD receivers except the HR23 must have a B-Band 
converter installed. If the converter is not installed, viewers can only 
receive older HD channels (channels 70–99). The B-Band Converter (BBC) 
is also not required with the new Single Wire Multiswitch (SWM or SWiM) 
system, which preselects the satellite and transponder tuning and can feed 
up to 8 tuners via a single coaxial cable. The "HR" moniker designates 
the receiver as a HD digital video recorder (DVR) model. Only the H20/HR20 
support direct reception of over-the-air ATSC broadcasts. The H21/HR21/HR22/HR23/H24/HR24 
receivers do not have a built in ATSC tuner, but the AM21 external tuner 
is available. In addition, there is HDMI support for HDTVs with an HDMI 
port. New STBs also support MPEG-4 standard for HD *Programming. DirecTV 
also offers the AM21 (an ATSC add-on for the HR21), the HR21-Pro (an HD-DVR 
with 100 hours HD or 400 hours SD recording capacity), and an online DVR 
scheduler. AT&T's planned over-the-top service for DirecTV won't require 
a satellite dish or a receiver to receive DirecTV programming, but simply 
a high-speed internet connection. DirecTV Now will be available through 
digital media player devices such as Roku, Amazon Fire TV, Chromecast, 
and Apple TV.[68][69][70] DirecTV transmits programming with encryption 
to mitigate signal piracy. The receiver (also known as an IRD, or "integrated 
receiver-decoder") utilizes ISO/IEC 7816 smart cards which tell the receiver 
how to decrypt the programming for viewing. In a continuing effort to combat 
piracy, an access card generation is created approximately every two years, 
superseding the old set. DirecTV is now utilizing a fifth generation of 
access cards. DirecTV has battled with an active signal piracy underground 
for many years. One infamous event that temporarily hampered pirates was 
known as 'Black Sunday', which took place one week before Super Bowl Sunday 
in 2001. Hackers saw a string of software updates starting in late 2000 
that seemed harmless, but included code that once complete searched for 
and destroyed 98% of hacked smart cards. Hacks continued after that event.[81][82][83] 
Like its competitors, DirecTV offers high-definition television (HDTV) 
and interactive services. To handle the proliferation of bandwidth-intensive 
HDTV broadcasting, DirecTV rebroadcasts local HDTV stations using the H.264/MPEG-4 
AVC codec while employing a newer transmission protocol (DVB-S2) over the 
newer satellites. This allows DirecTV to squeeze much more HD programming 
over its satellite signal than was previously feasible using the older 
MPEG-2 compression and DSS protocol it has been using. This technology 
will be gradually expanded to the existing satellites as customer equipment 
is replaced with new MPEG-4-capable receivers. Receiving the channels encoded 
in MPEG-4 requires newer receivers, such as the H20 as well as the 5-LNB 
Ka/Ku dish. DirecTV has contracted with Britain's Pace Micro Technology, 
Korea's LG Electronics and France's Thomson to manufacture these new receivers. 
Pace manufactures the DirecTV Plus HD DVR (Model HR20-700, and HR21-700) 
and LG Electronics offers the Model H20-600 receiver, while Thomson provides 
the Model H20-100 and HR20-100 DVR receivers. DirecTV has admitted to software 
issues with some of the H20 receivers and HR20 DVRs, which have been plagued 
with random problems since they were released in mid-2006. DirecTV regularly 
released software updates for the HR20 receivers, in an effort to reduce 
issues to an acceptable level. DirecTV has phased out its original TiVo-branded 
HD DVR, the HR10-250, which can only decode the older MPEG-2 signals. All 
DirecTV-delivered local HDTV stations (outside of the NYC and LA network 
stations) are encoded in MPEG-4. The HR10-250 cannot receive the MPEG-4 
local HDTV stations in these markets but can still receive over-the-air 
ATSC broadcasts in these markets. After a multi-year hiatus, TiVo and DirecTV 
are developing a new TiVo enabled HD DVR that will be able to receive/decode 
DirecTV's current MPEG-4 satellite signals. Originally slated for release 
in the second half of 2009, it is now available in select markets.[75][76] 
In November 2014, DirecTV became the first television provider to begin 
offering 4K ultra-high definition content. On launch, 4K content was limited 
to renting a small library of on-demand films, downloaded to the subscriber's 
Genie DVR (some 4K content can also be pre-loaded automatically to the 
set-top box via the Genie Recommends feature). The 4K service could also 
only be used on "DirecTV 4K Ready" televisions, which support RVU protocol; 
this was limited to selected Samsung 4K televisions released in 2014.[84] 
In 2015, DirecTV introduced 4K Genie Mini set-top boxes, which can be connected 
to any HDMI 2.0/HDCP 2.2-compliant devices to provide 4K video.[85] In 
April 2016, DirecTV began live sports broadcasts in 4K to eligible subscribers, 
including coverage from the 2016 Masters Tournament,[86][87] 25 MLB Network 
Showcase baseball games in the 2016 season (subject to local blackout restrictions) 
beginning April 15, 2016,[88] and all Notre Dame college football home 
games during the 2016 season.[89] DirecTV also offers local channels like 
CBS, ABC, NBC, Fox, PBS, The CW, Telemundo, Azteca, Univision, ION Television 
(in markets that carry that network), and some independent stations in 
markets covering over 99.2% of U.S. TV households.[90] In markets that 
lack an OTA CW affiliate, DirecTV includes WKBD-TV from Detroit or XETV-TDT 
from San Diego/Tijuana. Subscribers located where they cannot receive a 
decent terrestrial television signal and/or live in a tiny market that 
only has a couple of stations can receive feeds from New York and Los Angeles 
for CBS, ABC, NBC, and Fox, as well as a feed from the Washington, D.C. 
CW affiliate, though a waiver from the local affiliate stations may be 
required to allow this, approved at their discretion. National PBS and 
ION channels are also available. In the largest markets, local channels 
are carried on the satellite at 101°W. In some smaller markets, the local 
channels are carried on a second satellite located at 119°W which requires 
a slightly larger dish with two or three LNBs or the newer Ka/Ku 5-LNB 
dish. In a few smaller markets, local stations are located on a satellite 
at 72.5°W that requires a second dish to be installed. In late 2005, DirecTV 
began providing local HDTV channels to the largest markets, requiring newer 
receivers with a larger dish capable of receiving signals from up to five 
satellites at once. The Ku-band signals on the newer Ka/Ku dish are received 
from 101°W, 110°W, and 119°W, while Ka-band signals are from 99°W and 103°W. 
Local television channels are transmitted over optical fiber links, Ku-band 
satellite uplink, microwave, and conventional terrestrial transmission 
to uplink centers located throughout the United States. DirecTV can provide 
true HD into hotels (Pro:Idiom). Cable companies have been able to provide 
true HD to hotels for over 2 years now with the installation of private 
video networks (FTTP to Coax conversion & Pro:Idiom) or with HFC HD video 
distribution systems (Pro:Idiom). DirecTV's exclusive general entertainment 
channel Audience Network has dozens of original and acquired programs, 
most of them unedited and commercial-free. It had its own exclusive 3DTV 
channel called n3D that launched in 2010 and shut down in 2012. DirecTV 
serves American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, JetBlue, and United Airlines. 
DirecTV owns regional sports networks Root Sports Pittsburgh, Root Sports 
Northwest, Root Sports Southwest, Root Sports Rocky Mountain, and Root 
Sports Utah (all under the umbrella of AT&T Sports Networks). It also owns 
minority shares of Game Show Network and MLB Network. DirecTV is also the 
exclusive U.S. rights holder to the NFL Sunday Ticket sports package. It 
also exclusively carries the "DirecTV Experience", which includes bonus 
coverage of men's major golf tournaments and Grand Slam tennis tournaments, 
including live feeds not available on other networks such as CBS, NBC, 
ESPN, Golf Channel and Tennis Channel that cover the events. DirecTV was 
also the exclusive provider of defunct sports packages NASCAR Hot Pass 
and Mega March Madness. Beginning in 2006, DirecTV began a series of commercials 
in which characters from popular movies and television shows break the 
fourth wall to tout the service's picture quality and the number of channels 
available in high definition. Instead of using CGI the original actors 
normally reprise their roles on recreated sets, and resulting footage is 
mixed with the original scenes. The productions are recent and appeal to 
DirecTV's "male-oriented marketing message."[91] These characters include 
Captain Kirk (William Shatner, Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country), 
Bill Harding (Bill Paxton, Twister), The Economics Teacher (Ben Stein, 
Ferris Bueller's Day Off), Dr. Emmett Brown (Christopher Lloyd, Back to 
the Future), Burton Guster (Dulé Hill, Psych), C.J. Parker (Pamela Anderson, 
Baywatch), Rick "Wild Thing" Vaughn (Charlie Sheen, Major League), Beyoncé 
(Upgrade U music video), Nadia (Shannon Elizabeth, American Pie), Turtle 
(Jerry Ferrara, Entourage), Ellen Ripley (Sigourney Weaver, Aliens), Steve 
Freeling (Craig T. Nelson, Poltergeist), Annie Wilkes (Kathy Bates, Misery), 
Mini-Me (Verne Troyer, Austin Powers In Goldmember), The Girl in the Ferrari 
(Christie Brinkley, National Lampoon's Vacation), Daisy Duke (Jessica Simpson, 
The Dukes of Hazzard), T-1000 (Robert Patrick, Terminator 2: Judgment Day), 
Ann Darrow (Naomi Watts, King Kong), Hellboy (Ron Perlman, Hellboy), Richard 
Hayden (David Spade, Tommy Boy), The Black Eyed Peas (Meet Me Halfway music 
video), Christina Aguilera (Keeps Gettin' Better music video) and Honey 
Hornee (Kim Basinger, Wayne's World 2). Also in this series of commercials 
were Peyton Manning, Eli Manning, and Archie Manning promoting NFL Sunday 
Ticket, and Dale Earnhardt, Jr. promoting NASCAR Hot Pass. Cartoon characters 
have also been used in the ads, beginning with Scooby-Doo and the Mystery, 
Inc. gang. Recent commercials have also featured model Hannah Davis and 
a "talking" horse. DirecTV during that time also ran series of ads that 
takes shots at cable television's service (or lack of service). Beginning 
in March 2010, they did a spoof of the classic game show To Tell The Truth 
with Alex Trebek hosting the show. The series of commercials both pays 
homage to the Goodson-Todman game show, and take shots at both cable and 
DirecTV's archrival Dish Network, who later sued for false advertising. 
Another series of commercials, promoting the 2010 NFL Sunday Ticket package 
of all-football programming, featured neighbors committing uncivil acts 
to neighbors who watched the "wrong" football team. One spot had a woman 
leaving a snack platter for a neighbor on which the food spelled out "DIRT 
BAG"; another showed a dog trashing a neighbor's property; yet another 
showed an on-duty policeman knocking on a DirecTV customer's door, stunning 
him with a taser and leaving him passed out in his open doorway. In August 
2011, Deion Sanders began appearing in DirecTV's ads for NFL Sunday Ticket, 
urging people to switch from cable. These ads originally claimed NFL Sunday 
Ticket is now "free" for new customers for one year with a subscription 
to their Premiere package and a two-year contract. In response, on August 
4, 2011, Comcast sued DirecTV for false advertising.[92] Comcast dropped 
the case on August 19, 2011 after DirecTV altered the ads to remove the 
word "free", changing it to "at no extra charge".[93] The DirecTV blimp 
named "lefty" was launched in October 2007 at the MLB World Series in Boston 
and has been seen all over the United States since its inception. The blimp 
flies mainly over live sporting events but has also been seen at other 
entertainment and charitable venues. This second generation A-170LS Video 
Lightsign Lightship features the state of the art video screen that displays 
full color video images day or night. This lightsign, the only one of its 
kind in the world, is used to display messaging and advertising for DirecTV. 
The blimp has been recently spotted on Twitter as followers track the journeys 
of the blimp from one event to another. The airship is owned and operated 
by The Lightship Group, an advertising company based in Orlando, FL.[94] 
DirecTV was awarded a J.D. Power award for residential cable and satellite 
TV customer satisfaction in 2007.[95] DirecTV's customer service is provided 
by many third-party owned call centers both inside and outside the United 
States. Most of the call centers are contracted to provide agents to answer 
customer phone calls regarding programming, billing, or technical questions. 
As of November 2012[update], DirecTV does not offer a 30-day grace period 
for those who wish to try the service. "If you do not fulfill your Programming 
Agreements, DirecTV may charge a pro-rated fee of up to $480."[96] In August 
2008, The Boston Globe reported that DirecTV received 20,000 complaints 
in less than three years to the Better Business Bureau on DirecTV slipping 
in cancellation fees.[97] In August 2010, the BBB reported that it had 
received 39,000 complaints against DirecTV in the previous 3 years, and 
the BBB gave it an F (failing) grade. Many of the complaints concerned 
DirecTV's early termination fees, billing and service issues.[98] As of 
June 2013[update], the Better Business Bureau has no rating for DirecTV,[99] 
though this may be related to problems internal to the BBB.[100] On December 
14, 2009 the Washington Attorney General's office filed a civil complaint 
against DirecTV seeking injunctive and other relief. The complaint was 
filed in the public interest when the Attorney General's office determined 
after a one-year investigation by its Consumer Protection Division, that 
the company allegedly engaged in numerous repeated violations of the state’s 
Consumer Protection Act. The complaint alleged unfair or deceptive practices 
which include, but are not limited to The Attorney General’s Office asked 
the court to compel DirecTV to change its business practices, impose civil 
penalties and provide restitution for consumers. The case was settled in 
December 2010, with DirecTV agreeing to pay over $1 million, and to correct 
many of its business practices.[101] 47 other states joined in a similar 
suit, the settlement of which required the company to pay over $13 million.[102] 
In September 2008, consumers filed a class action lawsuit with the Los 
Angeles Superior Court to stop DirecTV's practice of charging early cancellation 
penalties to subscribers. The lawsuit claims that DirecTV fails to disclose 
the penalty to new customers or to existing customers who replace their 
equipment or add a new receiver, and that these practices are unlawful. 
In September 2009, a motion for a preliminary injunction was filed to block 
the company from automatically removing the fees from customers’ bank accounts 
or charging their credit card accounts without their prior knowledge and 
written consent until the lawsuit is resolved.[103] In December 2005 the 
U.S. Federal Trade Commission imposed a $5.3 million penalty on DirecTV 
for its violations of federal telemarketing regulations. It was the largest 
civil penalty the FTC had ever announced in a case enforcing any consumer 
protection law.[104] On March 11, 2015, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission 
filed a lawsuit against DirecTV for deceptive advertising. The FTC claims 
the following: On January 19, 2016, the Secretary of Environment of Bogotá, 
sanctioned DirecTV's Colombian subsidiary, Directv Colombia Ltda., with 
a sum of $118 million for placing advertisement without the proper permission 
from the city.[106] The company violated Decree 959, of the year 2000, 
that regulates where companies can place public publicity. 1More than 400,000 
television service subscribers. 1 – Still in operation, but no longer offers 
