"Dirty Water" is a song by the American rock band the Standells, written 
by their producer Ed Cobb.[3] The song is a mock paean to the city of Boston, 
Massachusetts and its then-famously polluted Boston Harbor and Charles 
River. Its Boston and Charles River references are reportedly based on 
an experience of Cobb and his girlfriend with a mugger in Boston in the 
mid-1960s.[4] In addition to the river, other local interest items in the 
song include the Boston University women's curfew — "Frustrated women ... 
have to be in by twelve o'clock" — and a passing mention of the Boston 
Strangler — "have you heard about the Strangler? (I'm the man I'm the man)." 
Boston is also home to Simmons College, a women's college that, like many 
such institutions, had a curfew for students. There is disagreement regarding 
the identity of the "frustrated women". In a city with many colleges and 
universities, as well as a large Navy presence (historically), it could 
be purposefully unspecific. First issued in late 1965 on the Tower label, 
a subsidiary of Capitol Records, the song debuted April 30, 1966 on the 
Cash Box charts and peaked at #8. It reached #11 on the Billboard singles 
charts on June 11. It was the band's first major hit single; their earlier 
charting record, "The Boy Next Door," had only reached #102 on Billboard's 
"Bubbling Under" chart in February 1965. Although "Dirty Water" is beloved 
by the city of Boston and its sports fans, the song first became a hit 
in the state of Florida, breaking out on WLOF in Orlando in January 1966. 
Dirty Water was also the title of the Standells' most successful LP, their 
only nationally charting album. This LP charted on both Billboard and Cash 
Box magazines' charts, peaking at #52 and #39, respectively, during the 
summer of 1966. The song is traditionally played by Boston sports teams 
following victories. The Boston Bruins ice hockey team began playing the 
song in 1991, and the Boston Red Sox baseball team followed suit after 
home victories beginning in the 1997 season.[citation needed] The surviving 
Standells have performed the song at Fenway Park from atop the Green Monster. 
The song's famous guitar riff was recorded with a Fender Stratocaster through 
a Vox AC30 amplifier by Standells' guitarist, Tony Valentino. The song 
is also included in the soundtrack for the film Fever Pitch, which includes 
the Boston Red Sox leading up to the 2004 World Series. Dirty Water was 
included in the influential compilation album Nuggets: Original Artyfacts 
from the First Psychedelic Era, 1965–1968, and is listed in the Rock and 
