In Major League Baseball, the disabled list (DL) is a method for teams 
to remove their injured players from the roster in order to summon healthy 
players. Players are placed on either the 15-day or the 60-day disabled 
list, usually depending on the severity and/or recovery time of the injury. 
A player may be shifted from the 15-day to the 60-day DL at any time, but 
not vice versa. The player may not rejoin the team until 15 or 60 days 
has elapsed; however, a player's time on the DL may exceed the specified 
number of days, and, further, if a player is transferred to the 60-day 
DL after August 1, he may not return to the active roster that season. 
The rule about rejoining the team only applies to active duty. Players 
are permitted to stay with the team and attend games, though players may 
leave the team for short term minor league rehabilitation assignments to 
prepare for their return to the active roster. The 15-day DL does not count 
the player on the active roster (comprising the 25-man roster until September 
1), whereas the 60-day DL does not require the player to be counted on 
either the team's active roster or its 40-man roster; however, a team's 
40-man roster must be full in order for the option of a placement on the 
60-day disabled list to be available.[1] Placing a player on the disabled 
list opens a spot on the active roster. Another player from the minor leagues, 
free agent pool, a traded player, or a recovered player coming off the 
disabled list may be used to fill this spot. This allows a team to avoid 
being penalized because it avoids the disadvantage of playing with a reduced 
roster. Retroactive placement may be made at most 10 days after the time 
of injury.[2] When a player is listed as day-to-day before being placed 
on the disabled list, it therefore may pinpoint the date of the injury. 
Starting with the 2011 season, Major League Baseball has instituted a new 
disabled list, a 7-day list specifically for concussions. The idea is to 
prevent long-term brain damage which may take up to 7 days instead of using 
the full 15 days by current standards. MLB has ensured this is only for 
concussions, and will take steps to avoid abuse of the system.[3] If a 
player is not activated from the concussion DL after those 7 days have 
passed, he is automatically transferred to the 15-day DL. Also in 2011, 
Major League Baseball has instituted a paternity leave. This allows a team 
to replace a player who is an expectant father for 1–3 days on the roster 
to be available for the birth of his child.[4] A player may be placed on 
the bereavement list upon attending to a seriously ill member in the player's 
immediate family or to a death in the family. The bereavement list may 
span from a minimum of three to a maximum of seven games.[5] Umpiring's 
bereavement list for death in the immediate family may span up to a full 
season.[6] Minor League Baseball uses a 7-day disabled list for all injuries. 
Players who are on the 40-man roster but get hurt in the minor leagues 
are placed on the minor league DL, but not on the major league DL. One 
problem this poses is that a player who is injured in the minors and who 
would be placed on the major league 60-day DL cannot be placed on the 60-day, 
meaning the 40-man roster spot is not freed up. The freed-up roster spot 
can be strategically valuable, leading to occasional creative use of disabled 
lists by MLB teams and their affiliates (similar to teams appealing or 
dropping the appeal of a suspended player to maximize player contribution). 
Players who are performing poorly and are slightly injured might be put 
on the DL so they can go to the minors on rehab, when the MLB club might 
only want them in the minors because they are playing poorly. There are 
rules against blatantly "gaming the system" in the Collective Bargaining 
Agreement between the players and the league. A team may keep an injured 
player on the roster but keep him listed as 'day-to-day' to indicate that 
the medical staff is unable to determine when the player can resume normal 
playing activities again. If the injury turns out to be minor, then the 
player may resume playing without having to wait to come off the disabled 
list; however, depending upon the circumstances, the team may find itself 
effectively shorthanded in the meantime. Players recovering from an injury 
may appear in a limited number of minor league games while still on the 
disabled list in order to prepare for reactivation. Non-pitchers may stay 
in the minor league club for up to 20 days; pitchers for up to 30 days.[7] 
The categories and variety of disabled lists have changed numerous times 
over the years. The current 15-day disabled list was introduced in 1966, 
joining a 10-day, 21-day and 30-day options, and the 60-day disabled list 
in 1990. Prior to 1990, the number of players who could be placed on each 
list was limited, players with major league contracts were not allowed 
to go to the minor leagues for rehabilitation, and there was less flexibility 
about when they could return to action. The 10-day disabled list was dropped 
in 1984, and the 21-day and 30-day options were dropped in 1990 with the 
