Disco is a genre of dance music containing elements of funk, soul, pop, 
and salsa. It achieved popularity during the mid-1970s to the early 1980s. 
Its initial audiences in the U.S. were club-goers from the gay, African 
American, Italian American,[1] Latino, and psychedelic communities in Philadelphia 
during the late 1960s and early 1970s. Disco can be seen as a reaction 
against both the domination of rock music and the stigmatization of dance 
music by the counterculture during this period. It was popular with both 
men and women, from many different backgrounds. The disco sound has soaring 
vocals over a steady "four-on-the-floor" beat, an eighth note (quaver) 
or 16th note (semi-quaver) hi-hat pattern with an open hi-hat on the off-beat, 
and a prominent, syncopated electric bass line. In most disco tracks, string 
sections, horns, electric piano, and electric rhythm guitars create a lush 
background sound. Orchestral instruments such as the flute are often used 
for solo melodies, and lead guitar is less frequently used in disco than 
in rock. Many disco songs use electronic synthesizers, particularly in 
the late 1970s. Well-known 1970s disco performers included Donna Summer, 
the Bee Gees, Boney M, KC and the Sunshine Band, The Trammps, Gloria Gaynor 
and Chic. While performers and singers garnered much public attention, 
record producers working behind the scenes played an important role in 
developing the "disco sound". Many non-disco artists recorded disco songs 
at the height of disco's popularity, and films such as Saturday Night Fever 
(1977) and Thank God It's Friday (1978) contributed to disco's rise in 
mainstream popularity. Disco was the last mass popular music movement that 
was driven by the baby boom generation. Disco was a worldwide phenomenon, 
but its popularity drastically declined in the United States in 1980, and 
disco was no longer popular in the U.S. by 1981. Disco Demolition Night, 
an anti-disco protest held in Chicago on 12 July 1979, is commonly thought 
of as a factor in disco's fast and drastic decline. By the late 1970s most 
major U.S. cities had thriving disco club scenes, where DJs would mix a 
seamless sequence of dance records. Studio 54, a venue popular amongst 
celebrities, is a well-known example of a disco club. Popular dances included 
The Hustle, a sexually suggestive dance. Discotheque-goers often wore expensive, 
extravagant and sexy fashions. There was also a thriving drug subculture 
in the disco scene, particularly for drugs that would enhance the experience 
of dancing to the loud music and the flashing lights, such as cocaine. 
Disco clubs were also associated with promiscuity. Disco was a key influence 
on the 1980s electronic dance music style called House. Disco has had several 
revivals, including in 2005 with Madonna's album Confessions on a Dance 
Floor, and again in 2013 and 2014, as disco-styled songs by artists like 
Daft Punk (with Pharrell Williams and Nile Rodgers), Justin Timberlake, 
Breakbot, and Bruno Mars—notably Mars' "Uptown Funk"—filled the pop charts 
in the UK and the US. The term is derived from discothèque (French for 
"library of phonograph records", but it was subsequently used as a term 
for nightclubs in Paris). By the early 1940s, the terms disc jockey and 
DJ were in use to describe radio presenters. During WWII, because of restrictions 
set in place by the Nazi occupiers, jazz dance halls in Occupied France 
played records instead of using live music. Eventually more than one of 
these jazz venues had the proper name discothèque. By 1959, the term was 
used in Paris to describe any of these type of nightclubs. That year a 
young reporter named Klaus Quirini started to select and introduce records 
at the Scotch-Club in Aachen, West Germany. By the following year the term 
was being used in the United States to describe that type of club, and 
a type of dancing in those clubs. By 1964, discotheque and the shorthand 
disco were used to describe a type of sleeveless dress worn when going 
out to nightclubs. In September 1964, Playboy magazine used the word disco 
as a shorthand for a discothèque-styled nightclub.[2] In Philadelphia, 
R&B musicians and audiences from the black, Italian, and Latino communities 
adopted several traits from the hippies and psychedelia. They included 
venues with a loud, overwhelming sound, free-form dancing, trippy lighting, 
colorful costumes, and the use of hallucinogens.[3][4][5] Psychedelic soul 
groups like the Chambers Brothers and especially Sly and The Family Stone 
influenced proto-disco acts such as Isaac Hayes, Willie Hutch and the soul 
style known as the Philadelphia Sound.[6] In addition, the perceived positivity, 
lack of irony, and earnestness of the hippies informed proto-disco music 
like M.F.S.B.'s album Love Is the Message.[3][7] To the mainstream public 
M.F.S.B. stood for "Mother Father Sister Brother"; to the tough areas where 
they came from it was understood to stand for "Mother Fuckin' Son of a 
Bitch", a reference to their playing skill and musical prowess.[8] A forerunner 
to disco-style clubs was the private parties held by New York City DJ David 
Mancuso in The Loft, a members-only club in his home in 1970.[9] When Mancuso 
threw his first house parties, the gay community (members of whom comprised 
much of The Loft's attendee roster) was often harassed in New York gay 
bars and dance clubs. But at The Loft and many other early, private discotheques, 
men could dance together without fear of police action thanks to Mancuso's 
underground business model. The first article about disco was written in 
1973 by Vince Aletti for Rolling Stone magazine.[9] In 1974 New York City's 
WPIX-FM premiered the first disco radio show.[9] Philadelphia soul and 
New York soul were evolutions of the Motown sound, and were typified by 
the lavish percussion and lush strings that became a prominent part of 
mid-1970s disco songs. Early songs with disco elements include "You Keep 
Me Hangin' On" (The Supremes, 1966), "Only the Strong Survive" (Jerry Butler, 
1968), "The Love You Save" by Jackson 5 (1970), "Soul Makossa" (Manu Dibango, 
1972), "Superstition" by Stevie Wonder (1972) Eddie Kendricks' "Keep on 
Truckin'" (1973) and "The Love I Lost" by Harold Melvin & The Blue Notes 
(1973). "Love Train" by The O'Jays (1972), with M.F.S.B. as the backup 
band, hit Billboard Number 1 in March 1973, and has been called "disco". 
Early disco was dominated with producers and labels such as Salsoul Records 
(Ken, Stanley, and Joseph Cayre), West End Records (Mel Cheren), Casablanca 
(Neil Bogart), and Prelude (Marvin Schlachter), to name a few. The genre 
was also shaped by Tom Moulton, who wanted to extend the enjoyment of dance 
songs — thus creating the extended mix or "remix". Other influential DJs 
and remixers who helped to establish what became known as the "disco sound" 
included David Mancuso, Nicky Siano, Shep Pettibone, Larry Levan, Walter 
Gibbons, and Chicago-based "Godfather of House" Frankie Knuckles. "The 
DJ was central to the ritual of 1970s dance culture, but the dancing crowd 
was no less important, and it was the combination of these two elements 
that created the conditions for the dance floor dynamic."[10] In disco 
parties and clubs, a "...good DJ didn't only lead dancers...[to the dance 
floor,] but would also feel the mood of the dance floor and select records 
according to this energy (which could be communicated by the vigor of the 
dancing, or level of the crowd's screams, or sign language of dancers directed 
towards the booth)."[10] Disco-era DJs would often remix (re-edit) existing 
songs using reel-to-reel tape machines, and add in percussion breaks, new 
sections, and new sounds. DJs would select songs and grooves according 
to what the dancers wanted, transitioning from one song to another with 
a DJ mixer and using a microphone to introduce songs and speak to the audiences. 
Other equipment was added to the basic DJ setup, providing unique sound 
manipulations, such as reverb, equalization, and echo. Using this equipment, 
a DJ could do effects such as cutting out all but the throbbing bassline 
of a song, and then slowly mixing in the beginning of another song using 
the DJ mixer's crossfader. Disco hit the television airwaves with the music/dance 
variety show Soul Train in 1971 hosted by Don Cornelius, then Marty Angelo's 
Disco Step-by-Step Television Show in 1975, Steve Marcus' Disco Magic/Disco 
77, Eddie Rivera's Soap Factory, and Merv Griffin's Dance Fever, hosted 
by Deney Terrio, who is credited with teaching actor John Travolta to dance 
for his role in the hit movie Saturday Night Fever, as well as DANCE based 
out of Columbia, South Carolina. From 1974 to 1977, disco music continued 
to increase in popularity as many disco songs topped the charts. In 1974, 
"Love's Theme" by Barry White's Love Unlimited Orchestra became the second 
disco song to reach number one on the Billboard Hot 100, after "Love Train". 
MFSB also released "TSOP (The Sound of Philadelphia)", featuring vocals 
by The Three Degrees, and this was the third disco song to hit number one; 
"TSOP" was written as the theme song for Soul Train. The Hues Corporation's 
1974 "Rock the Boat", a U.S. #1 single and million-seller, was one of the 
early disco songs to hit #1. The same year saw the release of "Kung Fu 
Fighting", performed by Carl Douglas and produced by Biddu, which reached 
#1 in both the U.K. and U.S., and became the best-selling single of the 
year[11] and one of the best-selling singles of all time with eleven million 
records sold worldwide,[12][13] helping to popularize disco music to a 
great extent.[12] Other chart-topping disco hits that year included "Rock 
Your Baby" by George McCrae. In the northwestern sections of the United 
Kingdom, the Northern Soul explosion, which started in the late 1960s and 
peaked in 1974, made the region receptive to Disco, which the region's 
Disc Jockeys were bringing back from New York City. George McCrae's "Rock 
Your Baby" became the United Kingdom's first number one disco single.[14][15] 
Also in 1974, Gloria Gaynor released the first side-long disco mix vinyl 
album, which included a remake of The Jackson 5's "Never Can Say Goodbye" 
and two other songs, "Honey Bee" and "Reach Out (I'll Be There)". Formed 
by Harry Wayne Casey ("KC") and Richard Finch, Miami's KC and the Sunshine 
Band had a string of disco-definitive top-five hits between 1975 and 1977, 
including "Get Down Tonight", "That's the Way (I Like It)", "(Shake, Shake, 
Shake) Shake Your Booty", "I'm Your Boogie Man" and "Keep It Comin' Love". 
Electric Light Orchestra's 1975 hit Evil Woman, although described as Orchestral 
Rock, featured a violin sound that became a staple of disco. In 1979, however, 
ELO did release two "true" disco songs: "Last Train To London" and "Shine 
A Little Love". In 1975, American singer and songwriter Donna Summer recorded 
a song which she brought to her producer Giorgio Moroder entitled "Love 
to Love You Baby" which contained a series of simulated orgasms. The song 
was never intended for release but when Moroder played it in the clubs 
it caused a sensation. Moroder released it and it went to number 2. It 
has been described as the arrival of the expression of raw female sexual 
desire in pop music. A 17-minute 12 inch single was released. The 12" single 
became and remains a standard in discos today.[16] In 1978, a multi-million 
selling vinyl single disco version of "MacArthur Park" by Summer was number 
one on the Billboard Hot 100 chart for three weeks and was nominated for 
the Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance. Summer's recording, 
which was included as part of the "MacArthur Park Suite" on her double 
album Live and More, was eight minutes and forty seconds long on the album. 
The shorter seven-inch vinyl single version of the MacArthur Park was Summer's 
first single to reach number one on the Hot 100; it does not include the 
balladic second movement of the song, however. A 2013 remix of "Mac Arthur 
Park" by Summer hit #1 on the Billboard Dance Charts marking five consecutive 
decades with a #1 hit on the charts.[17] From 1978 to 1979, Summer continued 
to release hits such as "Last Dance", "Bad Girls", "Heaven Knows", "No 
More Tears (Enough Is Enough)", "Hot Stuff" and "On the Radio", all very 
successful disco songs. The Bee Gees used Barry Gibb's falsetto to garner 
hits such as "You Should Be Dancing", "Stayin' Alive", "Night Fever", "More 
Than A Woman" and "Love You Inside Out". Andy Gibb, a younger brother to 
the Bee Gees, followed with similarly-styled solo hits such as "I Just 
Want to Be Your Everything", "(Love Is) Thicker Than Water" and "Shadow 
Dancing". In 1975, hits such as Van McCoy's "The Hustle" and "Could It 
Be Magic" brought disco further into the mainstream. Other notable early 
disco hits include The Jackson 5's "Dancing Machine" (1974), Barry White's 
"You're the First, the Last, My Everything" (1974), LaBelle's "Lady Marmalade" 
(1975) and Silver Convention's "Fly Robin Fly" (1975). In December 1977, 
the film Saturday Night Fever was released. The film was marketed specifically 
to broaden disco's popularity beyond its primarily black and Latin audiences. 
It was a huge success and its soundtrack became one of the best-selling 
albums of all time. The idea for the film was sparked by a 1976 New York 
magazine[18] article titled "Tribal Rites of the New Saturday Night" which 
chronicled the disco culture in mid-1970s New York City.[19] Chic was formed 
by Nile Rodgers — a self described "street hippie" from late 1960s New 
York — and Martin Dow, a DJ from Key West, Florida who pioneered the NYC 
sound across that state. "Le Freak" was a popular 1978 single that is regarded 
as an iconic song of the genre. Other hits by Chic include the often-sampled 
"Good Times" (1979) and "Everybody Dance". The group regarded themselves 
as the disco movement's rock band that made good on the hippie movement's 
ideals of peace, love, and freedom. Every song they wrote was written with 
an eye toward giving it "deep hidden meaning" or D.H.M.[20] The Jacksons 
(previously The Jackson 5) did many disco songs from 1975 to 1980, including 
"Shake Your Body (Down to the Ground)" (1978), "Blame it on the Boogie" 
(1978), "Lovely One" (1980), and "Can You Feel It" (1980)—all sung by Michael 
Jackson, whose 1979 solo album, Off the Wall, included several disco hits, 
including the album's title song, "Rock with You", "Workin' Day and Night", 
and his second chart-topping solo hit in the disco genre, "Don't Stop 'til 
You Get Enough". Disco's popularity led many non-disco artists to record 
disco songs at the height of its popularity. Many of their songs were not 
"pure" disco, but were instead rock or pop songs with (sometimes inescapable) 
disco influence or overtones. Notable examples include Earth Wind & Fire's 
"Boogie Wonderland" with The Emotions (1979), Mike Oldfield's "Guilty" 
(1979) Blondie's "Heart of Glass" (1978), Cher's "Hell on Wheels" and "Take 
Me Home" (both 1979), Barry Manilow's "Copacabana" (1978), David Bowie's 
"John I'm Only Dancing (Again)" (1975), Rod Stewart's "Da Ya Think I'm 
Sexy?" (1979), Frankie Valli's "Swearin' to God" (1975), Electric Light 
Orchestra's "Shine a Little Love" and "Last Train to London" (both 1979), 
George Benson's "Give Me the Night" (1980), Elton John and Kiki Dee's "Don't 
Go Breaking My Heart" (1976), M's "Pop Muzik" (1979), Barbra Streisand's 
"The Main Event"(1979) and Diana Ross' "Upside Down" (1980). The biggest 
hit by Ian Dury and the Blockheads, best known as a new wave band, was 
"Hit Me with Your Rhythm Stick" (1978), featuring a strong disco sound. 
Even hard-core mainstream rockers mixed elements of disco with their typical 
rock 'n roll style in songs. Progressive rock group Pink Floyd, when creating 
their rock opera The Wall, used disco-style components in their song, "Another 
Brick in the Wall, Part 2" (1979)[21]—which became the group's only #1 
hit single (in both the US and UK). The Eagles gave nods to disco with 
"One of These Nights" (1975)[22] and "Disco Strangler" (1979), Paul McCartney 
& Wings did "Goodnight Tonight" (1979), Queen did "Another One Bites the 
Dust" (1980), The Rolling Stones did "Miss You" (1978) and "Emotional Rescue" 
(1980), Chicago did "Street Player" (1979), The Clash did "Ivan Meets G.I. 
Joe" (1980), The Beach Boys did "Here Comes the Night" (1979), The Kinks 
did "(Wish I Could Fly Like) Superman" (1979), and the J. Geils Band did 
"Come Back" (1980). Even heavy metal music group KISS jumped in with "I 
Was Made For Lovin' You" (1979).[23] Ringo Starr's album Ringo the 4th 
(1978) features a strong disco influence. [clarification needed]The disco 
fad was also picked up even by "non-pop" artists, including the 1979 U.S. 
number one hit "No More Tears (Enough Is Enough)" by Easy listening singer 
Barbra Streisand in a duet with Donna Summer. Country music artist Connie 
Smith covered Andy Gibb's "I Just Want to Be Your Everything" in 1977, 
Bill Anderson did "Double S" in 1978, and Ronnie Milsap recorded "Get It 
Up" covered Tommy Tucker's "High Heel Sneakers" in 1979. Also noteworthy 
are Cheryl Lynn's "Got to Be Real" (1978), Evelyn "Champagne" King's "Shame" 
(1978), Cher's "Take Me Home" (1979), Sister Sledge's "We Are Family" (1979), 
Geraldine Hunt's "Can't Fake the Feeling" (1980), and Walter Murphy's various 
attempts to bring classical music to the mainstream, most notably his disco 
hit "A Fifth of Beethoven" (1976), which was inspired by Beethoven's fifth 
symphony. Pre-existing non-disco songs and standards would frequently be 
"disco-ized" in the 1970s. The rich orchestral accompaniment that became 
identified with the disco era conjured up the memories of the big band 
era—which brought out several artists that recorded and disco-ized some 
big band arrangements including Perry Como, who re-recorded his 1929 and 
1939 hit, "Temptation", in 1975, as well as Ethel Merman, who released 
an album of disco songs entitled The Ethel Merman Disco Album in 1979. 
Myron Floren, second-in-command on The Lawrence Welk Show, released a recording 
of the Clarinet Polka entitled "Disco Accordion." Similarly, Bobby Vinton 
adapted The Pennsylvania Polka into a song named "Disco Polka". Easy listening 
icon Percy Faith, in one of his last recordings, released an album entitled 
Disco Party (1975) and recorded a disco version of his famous "Theme from 
A Summer Place" in 1976. Classical music was even adapted for disco, notably 
Walter Murphy's "A Fifth of Beethoven" (1976, based on the first movement 
of Beethoven's 5th Symphony) and "Flight 76" (1976, based on Rimsky-Korsakov's 
"Flight of the Bumblebee"), and Louis Clark's Hooked On Classics series 
of albums and singles. Notable disco hits based on movie and television 
themes included a medley from Star Wars, "Star Wars Theme/Cantina Band" 
(1977) by Meco, and "Twilight Zone/Twilight Tone" (1979) by The Manhattan 
Transfer. Even the I Love Lucy theme was not spared from being disco-ized. 
Many original television theme songs of the era also showed a strong disco 
influence, such as "Keep Your Eye On The Sparrow" (theme from Baretta, 
performed by Sammy Davis, Jr. and later a hit single for Rhythm Heritage), 
"Theme from S.W.A.T." (from S.W.A.T, original and single versions by Rhythm 
Heritage), and Mike Post's "Theme from Magnum, P.I.". Several parodies 
of the disco style were created. Rick Dees, at the time a radio DJ in Memphis, 
Tennessee, recorded "Disco Duck" (1976) and "Dis-Gorilla" (1977); Frank 
Zappa parodied the lifestyles of disco dancers in "Disco Boy" on his 1976 
Zoot Allures album, and in "Dancin' Fool" on his 1979 Sheik Yerbouti album; 
"Weird Al" Yankovic's eponymous 1983 debut album includes a disco song 
called "Gotta Boogie", an extended pun on the similarity of the disco move 
to the American slang word "booger". By the end of the 1970s, a strong 
anti-disco sentiment developed among rock fans and musicians, particularly 
in the United States.[24][25] The slogans "disco sucks" and "death to disco"[24] 
became common. Rock artists such as Rod Stewart and David Bowie who added 
disco elements to their music were accused of being sell outs.[26][27] 
The punk subculture in the United States and United Kingdom was often hostile 
to disco[24] (although in the UK, many early Sex Pistols fans such as the 
Bromley Contingent and Jordan quite liked disco, often congregating at 
nightclubs such as Louise's in Soho and the Sombrero in Kensington. The 
track "Love Hangover" by Diana Ross, the house anthem at the former, was 
cited as a particular favourite by many early UK Punks.[28] Also, the film 
The Great Rock 'n' Roll Swindle and its soundtrack album contained a disco 
medley of Sex Pistols songs, entitled Black Arabs and credited to a group 
of the same name.) Jello Biafra of the Dead Kennedys, in the song "Saturday 
Night Holocaust", likened disco to the cabaret culture of Weimar-era Germany 
for its apathy towards government policies and its escapism. Mark Mothersbaugh 
of Devo said that disco was "like a beautiful woman with a great body and 
no brains", and a product of political apathy of that era.[29] New Jersey 
rock critic Jim Testa wrote "Put a Bullet Through the Jukebox", a vitriolic 
screed attacking disco that was considered a punk call to arms.[30] Steve 
Hillage, shortly prior to his transformation from a progressive rock musician 
into an electronic artist at the end of the 1970s with the inspiration 
of disco, disappointed his rockist fans by admitting his love for disco, 
with Hillage recalling "it's like I'd killed their pet cat."[31] Anti-disco 
sentiment was expressed in some television shows and films. A recurring 
theme on the show WKRP in Cincinnati was a hostile attitude towards disco 
music. In one scene of the 1980 comedy film Airplane!, a city skyline features 
a radio tower with a neon-lighted station callsign. A disc jockey voiceover 
says: "WZAZ in Chicago, where disco lives forever!" Then a wayward airplane 
slices the radio tower with its wing, the voiceover goes silent, and the 
lighted callsign goes dark. July 12, 1979, became known as "the day disco 
died" because of Disco Demolition Night, an anti-disco demonstration in 
a baseball double-header at Comiskey Park in Chicago.[32] Rock-station 
DJs Steve Dahl and Garry Meier, along with Michael Veeck, son of Chicago 
White Sox owner Bill Veeck, staged the promotional event for disgruntled 
rock fans between the games of a White Sox doubleheader. The event, which 
involved exploding disco records, ended with a riot, during which the raucous 
crowd tore out seats and pieces of turf, and caused other damage. The Chicago 
Police Department made numerous arrests, and the extensive damage to the 
field forced the White Sox to forfeit the second game to the Detroit Tigers, 
who had won the first game. Six months prior to the chaotic event, popular 
progressive rock radio station WDAI (WLS-FM) had suddenly switched to an 
all-disco format, disenfranchising thousands of Chicago rock fans and leaving 
Dahl unemployed. On July 21, 1979, the top six records on the U.S. music 
charts were disco songs.[33] By September 22, there were no disco songs 
in the US Top 10 chart, with the exception of Herb Alpert's instrumental 
"Rise," a smooth jazz composition with some disco overtones.[33] Some in 
the media, in celebratory tones, declared disco "dead" and rock revived.[33] 
Karen Mixon Cook, the first female disco Dj was quoted as saying, "We still 
pause every July 12th for a moment of silence in honor of Disco." The anti-disco 
backlash, combined with other societal and radio industry factors, changed 
the face of pop radio in the years following Disco Demolition Night. Starting 
in the 1980s, country music began a slow rise in American main pop charts. 
Emblematic of country music's rise to mainstream popularity was the commercially 
successful 1980 movie Urban Cowboy. Somewhat ironically, the star of the 
film was John Travolta, who only three years before had starred in Saturday 
Night Fever, a film that featured disco culture. During this period of 
decline in disco's popularity, several record companies folded, were reorganized, 
or were sold. In 1979, MCA Records purchased ABC Records, absorbed some 
of its artists, and then shut the label down. RSO Records founder Robert 
Stigwood left the label in 1981 and TK Records closed in the same year. 
Salsoul Records continues to exist in the 2000s, but primarily is used 
as a reissue brand.[34] Casablanca Records had been releasing fewer records 
in the 1980s, and was shut down in 1986 by parent company PolyGram. Many 
groups that were popular during the disco period subsequently struggled 
to maintain their success—even those that tried to adapt to evolving musical 
tastes. The Bee Gees, for instance, only had four top-40 hits (despite 
recording and releasing far more than that) in the United States after 
the 1970s even though later songs they wrote and had other artists perform 
were successful. Of the handful of groups not taken down by disco's fall 
from favor, Kool and the Gang, The Jacksons—and Michael Jackson in particular—stand 
out: In spite of having helped define the disco sound early on,[35] they 
continued to make popular and danceable, if more refined, songs for yet 
another generation of music fans in the 1980s and beyond. Factors that 
have been cited as leading to the decline of disco in the United States 
include economic and political changes at the end of the 1970s as well 
as burnout from the hedonistic lifestyles led by participants.[37] In the 
years since Disco Demolition Night, some social critics have described 
the backlash as implicitly macho and bigoted, and an attack on non-white 
and non-heterosexual cultures.[24][27][32] In January 1979, rock critic 
Robert Christgau argued that homophobia, and most likely racism, were reasons 
behind the backlash,[26] a conclusion seconded by John Rockwell. Craig 
Werner wrote: "The Anti-disco movement represented an unholy alliance of 
funkateers and feminists, progressives and puritans, rockers and reactionaries. 
Nonetheless, the attacks on disco gave respectable voice to the ugliest 
kinds of unacknowledged racism, sexism and homophobia."[38] Legs McNeil, 
founder of the fanzine Punk, was quoted in an interview as saying, "the 
hippies always wanted to be black. We were going, 'fuck the blues, fuck 
the black experience'." He also said that disco was the result of an "unholy" 
union between homosexuals and blacks.[39] Steve Dahl, who had spearheaded 
Disco Demolition Night, denied any racist or homophobic undertones to the 
promotion, saying, "It's really easy to look at it historically, from this 
perspective, and attach all those things to it. But we weren't thinking 
like that."[27] It has been noted that British punk rock critics of disco 
were very supportive of the pro-black/anti-racist reggae genre.[24] Christgau 
and Jim Testa have said that there were legitimate artistic reasons for 
being critical of disco.[26][30] In 1979 the music industry in the United 
States was undergoing its worst slump in decades, and disco, despite its 
mass popularity, was blamed. The producer-oriented sound was having difficulty 
mixing well with the industry's artist-oriented marketing system.[40] Harold 
Childs, senior vice president at A&M Records, told the Los Angeles Times 
that "radio is really desperate for rock product" and "they're all looking 
for some white rock-n-roll".[32] Gloria Gaynor argued that the music industry 
supported the destruction of disco because rock music producers were losing 
money and rock musicians were losing the spotlight.[41] However, disco 
music remained relatively successful in the early 1980s, with big hits 
like Irene Cara's "Flashdance... What a Feeling", K.C. & The Sunshine Band's 
last major hit, "Give It Up", "Running With The Night" by Lionel Richie 
and Madonna's first album had strong disco influences. Record producer 
Giorgio Moroder's soundtracks to American Gigolo, Flashdance and Scarface 
(which also had a heavy disco influence) proved to be successful. Also, 
Queen's 1982 album, Hot Space was inspired by the genre as well. In the 
1990s, disco and its legacy became more accepted by music artists and listeners 
alike, as more songs and films were released that referenced disco. Examples 
of songs during this time that were influenced by disco included Deee-Lite's 
"Groove Is in the Heart" (1990), U2's "Lemon" (1993), Blur's "Girls & Boys" 
(1994) & "Entertain Me" (1995), and Pulp's "Disco 2000" (1995), while films 
such as Boogie Nights (1997) and The Last Days of Disco (1998) featured 
primarily disco soundtracks. Even some heavy metal songs released during 
the later part of the 1990s utilized the hi-hat cymbal beat which was reminiscent 
of disco. In the early 2000s, an updated genre of disco called "nu-disco" 
began breaking into the mainstream. A few examples like Daft Punk's "One 
More Time" and Kylie Minogue's "Love At First Sight" became club favorites 
and commercial successes. Several nu-disco songs were crossovers with funky 
house, such as Spiller's "Groovejet (If This Ain't Love)" and Modjo's "Lady 
(Hear Me Tonight)", both songs sampling older disco songs and both reaching 
number 1 on the UK Singles Chart in 2000. Robbie Williams' disco hit "Rock 
DJ" was the UK's fourth best-selling single the same year. Rock band Manic 
Street Preachers released a disco song, "Miss Europa Disco Dancer", in 
2001. The song's disco influence, which appears on Know Your Enemy, was 
described as being "much-discussed".[42] In 2005, Madonna immersed herself 
in the disco music of the 1970s, and released her album Confessions on 
a Dance Floor to rave reviews. In addition to that, her song "Hung Up" 
became a major top ten hit and club staple, and sampled ABBA's 1970s' hit 
"Gimme! Gimme! Gimme! (A Man After Midnight)". In addition to her disco-influenced 
attire to award shows and interviews, her Confessions Tour also incorporated 
various elements of the 1970s, such as disco balls, a mirrored stage design, 
and the roller derby. In 2013, several 1970s' style disco and funk songs 
charted, and the pop charts had more dance songs than at any other point 
since the late 1970s.[43] The biggest disco hit of the year as of June 
was "Get Lucky" by Daft Punk, featuring Nile Rodgers on guitar. Random 
Access Memories also ended up winning Album of the Year at the 2014 Grammys.[43][44] 
Other disco-styled songs that made it into the top 40 were Robin Thicke's 
"Blurred Lines" (No. 1), Justin Timberlake's "Take Back The Night" (No. 
29), Bruno Mars' "Treasure" (No. 5)[43][44] and Michael Jackson's posthumous 
release "Love Never Felt So Good" (No. 9). In addition, Arcade Fire's Reflektor 
featured strong disco elements. In 2014, disco music could be found in 
Lady Gaga's Artpop[45][46] and Katy Perry's "Birthday".[47] Other disco 
songs from 2014 include "I Want It All" By Karmin and 'Wrong Club" by The 
Ting Tings. Other top ten hits from 2015 like Mark Ronson's disco groove-infused 
"Uptown Funk", Maroon 5's "Sugar", The Weeknd's "Can't Feel My Face" and 
Jason Derulo's "Want To Want Me" also ascended the charts and have a strong 
disco influence. Disco mogul and producer Giorgio Moroder also re-appeared 
with his new album Déjà Vu in 2015 which has proved to be a modest success. 
Other songs from 2015 like "I Don't Like It, I Love It" by Flo Rida, "Adventure 
of a Lifetime" by Coldplay, "Back Together" by Robin Thicke and "Levels" 
by Nick Jonas feature disco elements as well. In 2016, disco songs or disco-styled 
pop songs are showing a strong presence on the music charts as a possible 
backlash to the '80s-styled Synthpop, Electro House and Dubstep that have 
been dominating the current charts. Justin Timberlake's 2016 song "Can't 
Stop The Feeling", which shows strong elements of disco, became the 26th 
song to debut at number-one on the Billboard Hot 100 in the history of 
the chart. The Martian, a 2015 film, extensively uses disco music as a 
soundtrack, although for the main character, astronaut Mark Watney, there's 
only one thing worse than being stranded on Mars: it's being stranded on 
Mars with nothing but disco music.[48] As disco's popularity sharply declined 
in the United States, abandoned by major U.S. record labels and producers, 
European disco continued evolving within the broad mainstream pop music 
scene.[49] European acts Silver Convention, Love and Kisses, Munich Machine, 
and American acts Donna Summer and the Village People, were acts that defined 
the late 1970s Euro disco sound. Producers Giorgio Moroder, whom AllMusic 
described as "one of the principal architects of the disco sound" with 
the Donna Summer hit "I Feel Love" (1977),[50] and Jean-Marc Cerrone were 
involved with Euro disco. The German group Kraftwerk also had an influence 
on Euro disco. By far the most successful Euro disco act was ABBA. This 
Swedish quartet, which sang in English, had hits as "Waterloo" (1974), 
"Fernando" (1976), "Take a Chance on Me" (1978), "Gimme! Gimme! Gimme! 
(A Man After Midnight)" (1979), and their signature smash "Dancing Queen" 
(1976)—ranks as the eighth best-selling act of all time. Other prominent 
European pop and disco groups were Luv' from the Netherlands and Boney 
M., a group of four West Indian singers and dancers masterminded by West 
German record producer Frank Farian. Boney M. charted worldwide hits with 
such songs as "Daddy Cool", "Ma Baker" and "Rivers of Babylon". Another 
Euro disco act was Amanda Lear, where Euro-disco sound is most heard in 
Enigma ("Give a bit of Mmh to me") song (1978). In France, Dalida released 
"J'attendrai" ("I will wait"), the first major French disco hit, which 
also became a big hit in Canada and Japan. Dalida successfully adjusted 
herself to disco era and released at least a dozen of songs that charted 
among top #10 in whole Europe and wider. Claude François, who re-invented 
himself as the king of French disco, released "La plus belle chose du monde", 
a French version of the Bee Gees hit record, "Massachusetts", which became 
a big hit in Canada and Europe and "Alexandrie Alexandra" was posthumously 
released on the day of his burial and became a worldwide hit. Cerrone's 
early hit songs, "Love in C Minor", "Give Me Love" and "Supernature" became 
major hits in the U.S. and Europe. In Italy Raffaella Carrà is the most 
successful disco act. Her greatest international hit single was "Tanti 
Auguri" ("Best Wishes"), which has become a popular song with gay audiences. 
The song is also known under its Spanish title "Para hacer bien el amor 
hay que venir al sur" (which refers to Southern Europe, since the hit was 
recorded and taped in Spain). The Estonian version of the song "Jätke võtmed 
väljapoole" was performed by Anne Veski. "A far l'amore comincia tu" ("To 
make love, your move first") was another success for her internationally, 
known in Spanish as "En el amor todo es empezar", in German as "Liebelei", 
in French as "Puisque tu l'aimes dis le lui", and in English as "Do It, 
Do It Again". It was her only entry to the UK Singles Chart, reaching number 
9, where she remains a one-hit wonder.[51] In 1977, she recorded another 
hit single, "Fiesta" ("The Party" in English) originally in Spanish, but 
then recorded it in French and Italian after the song hit the charts. "A 
far l'amore comincia tu" has also been covered in Turkish by a Turkish 
popstar Ajda Pekkan as "Sakın Ha" in 1977. Recently, Carrà has gained new 
attention for her appearance as the female dancing soloist in a 1974 TV 
performance of the proto-rap funk gibberish song "Prisencolinensinainciusol" 
(1973) by Adriano Celentano. A remixed video featuring her dancing went 
viral on the internet in 2008.[citation needed] In 2008 a video of a performance 
of her only UK hit single, 'Do It, Do It Again', was featured in the Dr. 
Who episode 'Midnight'. Rafaella Carrà worked with Bob Sinclar on the new 
single "Far l'Amore" which was released on YouTube on 17 March 2011. The 
song charted in different European countries.[citation needed] Diana Ross 
was one of the first Motown artists to embrace the disco sound with her 
successful 1976 outing "Love Hangover" from her self-titled album. Ross 
would continue to score disco hits for the rest of the disco era, including 
the 1980 dance classics "Upside Down" and "I'm Coming Out" (the latter 
immediately becoming a favorite in the gay community). The Supremes, the 
group that made Ross famous, scored a handful of hits in the disco clubs 
without Ross, most notably 1976's "I'm Gonna Let My Heart Do the Walking" 
and, their last charted single before disbanding, 1977's "You're My Driving 
Wheel". At the request of Motown that he produce songs in the disco genre, 
Marvin Gaye released "Got To Give It Up" in 1978, despite his dislike of 
disco. He vowed not to record any songs in the genre, and actually wrote 
the song as a parody. Stevie Wonder released the disco single "Sir Duke" 
in 1977 as a tribute to Duke Ellington, the influential jazz legend who 
had died in 1974. Smokey Robinson left the Motown group The Miracles for 
a solo career in 1972 and released his third solo album A Quiet Storm in 
1975, which spawned and lent its name to the "Quiet Storm" musical programming 
format and subgenre of R&B. It contained the disco hit "Baby, That's Backatcha". 
Other Motown artists who scored disco hits include: Robinson's former group, 
The Miracles, with "Love Machine" (1975), Eddie Kendricks with "Keep On 
Truckin'" (1973), The Originals with "Down To Love Town" (1976) and Thelma 
Houston with her cover of the Harold Melvin & The Blue Notes song "Don't 
Leave Me This Way" (1976). The label continued to release successful disco 
songs into the 1980s with Rick James' "Super Freak" (1981), Teena Marie's 
"Behind The Groove" (1980) and The Commodores' "Lady (You Bring Me Up)" 
(1981). The lead singer of The Commodores, Lionel Richie, left the group 
for a solo career in 1982, and also scored successful hits in the genre, 
with the Caribbean-flavoured disco song "All Night Long" (1983) and "Running 
With The Night" (1983). Several of Motown's solo artists who left the label 
went on to have successful disco hits. Mary Wells, Motown's first female 
superstar with her signature song "My Guy" (written by Smokey Robinson), 
abruptly left the label in 1964. She briefly reappeared on the charts with 
the disco song "Gigolo" in 1980. Jimmy Ruffin, the elder brother of The 
Temptations lead singer David Ruffin, was also signed to Motown, and released 
his most successful and well-known song "What Becomes Of The Brokenhearted?" 
as a single in 1966. Ruffin eventually left the record label in the mid-1970s 
but had a 1980 hit with the disco song "Hold On (To My Love)", which was 
written and produced by Robin Gibb of The Bee Gees, for his album Sunrise. 
Edwin Starr, most famous for his Motown protest song "War" (1970), reentered 
the charts in 1979 with a pair of disco songs, "Contact" and "H.A.P.P.Y. 
Radio". Kiki Dee became the first white British singer to sign with Motown 
in the US, and released one album, Great Expectations (1970), and two singles 
"The Day Will Come Between Sunday and Monday" (1970) and "Love Makes The 
World Go Round" (1971), the latter giving her first ever chart entry (#87 
on the US Chart). She soon left the company and signed with Elton John's 
The Rocket Record Company, and in 1976 had her biggest and best-known hit, 
"Don't Go Breaking My Heart", a disco duet with John. The song was intended 
as an affectionate disco-style pastiche of the Motown sound, in particular 
the various duets recorded by Marvin Gaye with Tammi Terrell and Kim Weston. 
Michael Jackson released many successful solo singles under the Motown 
label, like "Got To Be There" (1971), "Ben" (1972) and a cover of Bobby 
Day's "Rockin' Robin" (1972). He went on to score hits in the disco genre 
with "Rock With You" (1979), "Don't Stop 'Til You Get Enough" (1979) and 
"Billie Jean" (1983) for Epic Records. Many Motown groups who had left 
the record label charted with disco songs. Michael Jackson was the lead 
singer of The Jackson 5, one of Motown's premier acts in the early 1970s. 
They left the record company in 1975 (Jermaine Jackson, however, remained 
with the label) after hits like "I Want You Back" (1969) and "ABC" (1970), 
and even the disco hit "Dancing Machine" (1974). Renamed as 'The Jacksons' 
(as Motown owned the name 'The Jackson 5'), they went on to find success 
with disco songs like "Blame It On The Boogie" (1978), "Shake Your Body 
(Down To The Ground)" (1979) and "Can You Feel It?" (1981) on the Epic 
label. The Isley Brothers, whose short tenure at the company had produced 
the hit "This Old Heart Of Mine (Is Weak For You)" in 1966, went on release 
successful disco songs like "That Lady" (1973) and "It's A Disco Night 
(Rock, Don't Stop)" (1979). Gladys Knight & The Pips, who recorded the 
most successful version of "I Heard It Through The Grapevine" (1967) before 
Marvin Gaye, scored hits such as "Baby, Don't Change Your Mind" (1977) 
and "Bourgie, Bourgie" (1980) in the disco era. The Detroit Spinners were 
also signed to the Motown label and had a hit with the Stevie Wonder-produced 
song "It's A Shame" in 1970. They left soon after, on the advice of fellow 
Detroit native Aretha Franklin, to Atlantic Records, and there had disco 
hits like "The Rubberband Man" (1976). In 1979, they released a successful 
cover of Elton John's "Are You Ready For Love?", as well as a medley of 
The Four Seasons' song "Working My Way Back To You" and Michael Zager's 
"Forgive Me, Girl". The Four Seasons themselves were briefly signed to 
Motown's MoWest label, a short-lived subsidiary for R&B/soul artists based 
on the West Coast, and there the group produced one album, Chameleon (1972) 
- to little commercial success in America. However, one single, "The Night", 
was released in Britain in 1975, and thanks to popularity from the Northern 
Soul circuit, reached #7 on the UK Singles Chart. The Four Seasons left 
Motown in 1974 and went on to have a disco hit with their song "December, 
1963 (Oh, What A Night)" (1975) for Warner Curb Records. Norman Whitfield 
was a producer at Motown, renowned for creating innovative "psychedelic 
soul" songs. The genre later developed into funk, and from there into disco. 
The Undisputed Truth, a Motown recording act assembled by Whitfield as 
a means for being able to experiment with his psychedelic soul production 
techniques, found success with their 1971 song "Smiling Faces Sometimes". 
After a decade at Motown, Whitfield wanted to leave the company, and left 
to start up Whitfield Records in 1975. They were the first act to follow 
him from Motown to Whitfield Records and made their only ever entry onto 
the UK Singles Chart with the disco single "You + Me = Love" (#43) in 1976, 
which also made #2 on the US Dance Charts. In 1977, singer, songwriter 
and producer Willie Hutch signed with Whitfield's new label. He had been 
signed to Motown since 1970, writing songs for artists like The Jackson 
5 and Marvin Gaye, as well as releasing his own successful disco songs 
like "Love Power" (1975) for the label. Hutch returned to Motown in 1982 
and scored a disco hit with his song "In and Out". As well as charting 
on both the R&B (#55) and Dance Charts (#29), it became one of only two 
songs of his to chart on the UK Singles Chart (#51). The group Rose Royce, 
although they were never signed to Motown, toured with Edwin Starr, who 
introduced them to Whitfield, his producer. When Whitfield left Motown 
to set up Whitfield Records, he took Rose Royce under his wing at the new 
label. The group produced the album soundtrack to the 1976 film Car Wash, 
which contained the huge disco hit "Car Wash". Notably, singer Stacy Lattisaw 
signed with Motown after achieving success in the disco genre. In 1980, 
she released her album Let Me Be Your Angel, which produced the disco hits 
"Dynamite" and "Jump To The Beat" on the Cotillion label. Lattisaw continued 
to enjoy success as a contemporary R&B/pop artist throughout the 1980s. 
She signed with Motown in 1986, and achieved most success when teaming 
up with Johnny Gill, releasing the 1989 song "Where Do We Go From Here?" 
from her last ever album, What You Need, before retiring. In addition, 
her first ever single, back in 1979, was a disco cover of "When You're 
Young and In Love", which was most famously recorded by Motown female group 
The Marvelettes in 1967. Additionally, the debut single of Shalamar, the 
group originally created as a disco-driven vehicle by Soul Train creator 
Don Cornelius, was "Uptown Festival" (1977), a medley of 10 classic Motown 
songs sung over a 1970s disco beat. The music typically layered soaring, 
often-reverberated vocals, often doubled by horns, over a background "pad" 
of electric pianos and "chicken-scratch" rhythm guitars played on an electric 
guitar. "The "chicken scratch" sound is achieved by lightly pressing the 
strings against the fretboard and then quickly releasing them just enough 
to get a slightly muted scratching [sound] while constantly strumming very 
close to the bridge."[52] Other backing keyboard instruments include the 
piano, electric organ (during early years), string synth, and electromechanical 
keyboards such as the Fender Rhodes electric piano, Wurlitzer electric 
piano, and Hohner Clavinet. Synthesizers are also fairly common in disco, 
especially in the late 1970s. The rhythm is laid down by prominent, syncopated 
basslines (with heavy use of broken octaves, that is, octaves with the 
notes sounded one after the other) played on the bass guitar and by drummers 
using a drum kit, African/Latin percussion, and electronic drums such as 
Simmons and Roland drum modules. The sound was enriched with solo lines 
and harmony parts played by a variety of orchestral instruments, such as 
harp, violin, viola, cello, trumpet, saxophone, trombone, clarinet, flugelhorn, 
French horn, tuba, English horn, oboe, flute (sometimes especially the 
alto flute and occasionally bass flute), piccolo, timpani and synth strings, 
string section or a full string orchestra. Most disco songs have a steady 
four-on-the-floor beat, a quaver or semi-quaver hi-hat pattern with an 
open hi-hat on the off-beat, and a heavy, syncopated bass line. Other Latin 
rhythms such as the rhumba, the samba and the cha-cha-cha are also found 
in disco recordings, and Latin polyrhythms, such as a rhumba beat layered 
over a merengue, are commonplace. The quaver pattern is often supported 
by other instruments such as the rhythm guitar and may be implied rather 
than explicitly present. Songs often use syncopation, which is the accenting 
of unexpected beats. In general, the difference between a disco, or any 
dance song, and a rock or popular song is that in dance music the bass 
drum hits four to the floor, at least once a beat (which in 4/4 time is 
4 beats per measure), whereas in rock the bass hits on one and three and 
lets the snare take the lead on two and four (the "backbeat"). Disco is 
further characterized by a 16th note division of the quarter notes as shown 
in the second drum pattern below, after a typical rock drum pattern. The 
orchestral sound usually known as "disco sound" relies heavily on string 
sections and horns playing linear phrases, in unison with the soaring, 
often reverberated vocals or playing instrumental fills, while electric 
pianos and chicken-scratch guitars create the background "pad" sound defining 
the harmony progression. Typically, all of the doubling of parts and use 
of additional instruments creates a rich "wall of sound". There are, however, 
more minimalistic flavors of disco with reduced, transparent instrumentation, 
pioneered by Chic. In 1977, Giorgio Moroder again became responsible for 
a development in disco. Alongside Donna Summer and Pete Bellotte he wrote 
the song "I Feel Love" for Summer to perform. It became the first well-known 
disco hit to have a completely synthesised backing track. The song is still 
considered to have been well ahead of its time. Other disco producers, 
most famously Tom Moulton, grabbed ideas and techniques from dub music 
(which came with the increased Jamaican migration to New York City in the 
1970s) to provide alternatives to the "four on the floor" style that dominated. 
DJ Larry Levan utilized styles from dub and jazz and remixing techniques 
to create early versions of house music that sparked the genre.[53] The 
"disco sound" was much more costly to produce than many of the other popular 
music genres from the 1970s. Unlike the simpler, four-piece band sound 
of the funk, soul of the late 1960s, or the small jazz organ trios, disco 
music often included a large pop band, with several chordal instruments 
(guitar, keyboards, synthesizer), several drum or percussion instruments 
(drumkit, Latin percussion, electronic drums), a horn section, a string 
orchestra, and a variety of "classical" solo instruments (for example, 
flute, piccolo, and so on). Disco songs were arranged and composed by experienced 
arrangers and orchestrators, and record producers added their creative 
touches to the overall sound using multitrack recording techniques and 
effects units. Recording complex arrangements with such a large number 
of instruments and sections required a team that included a conductor, 
copyists, record producers, and mixing engineers. Mixing engineers had 
an important role in the disco production process, because disco songs 
used as many as 64 tracks of vocals and instruments. Mixing engineers and 
record producers, under the direction of arrangers, compiled these tracks 
into a fluid composition of verses, bridges, and refrains, complete with 
orchestral builds and breaks. Mixing engineers and record producers helped 
to develop the "disco sound" by creating a distinctive-sounding disco mix. 
Early records were the "standard" 3 minute version until Tom Moulton came 
up with a way to make songs longer, wanting to take a crowd to another 
level and keep them dancing longer, he found that was impossible with 45-RPM 
vinyl discs of the time (which could usually hold no more than 5 minutes 
of good-quality music). With the help of José Rodriguez, his remasterer, 
he pressed a single on a 10" disc instead of 7". They cut the next single 
on a 12" disc, the same format as a standard album. This method fast became 
the standard format for all DJs of the genre.[54] Because record sales 
were often dependent on floor play in leading clubs, DJs were also important 
to the development and popularization of disco music. Notable DJs include 
Rex Potts (Loft Lounge, Sarasota, Florida), Karen Cook, Jim Burgess, Walter 
Gibbons, John "Jellybean" Benitez, Richie Kaczar of Studio 54, Rick Gianatos, 
Francis Grasso of Sanctuary, Larry Levan, Ian Levine, Neil "Raz" Rasmussen 
& Mike Pace of L'amour Disco in Brooklyn, Preston Powell of Magique, Jennie 
Costa of Lemontrees, Tee Scott, Tony Smith of Xenon, John Luongo, Robert 
Ouimet of The Limelight, and David Mancuso. By the late 1970s most major 
U.S. cities had thriving disco club scenes, but the largest scenes were 
in San Francisco, Miami, and most notably New York City. The scene was 
centered on discotheques, nightclubs, and private loft parties where DJs 
would play disco hits through PA systems for the patrons who came to dance. 
Powerful, bass-heavy, hi-fi sound systems were viewed as a key part of 
the disco club experience. "Mancuso introduced the technologies of tweeter 
arrays (clusters of small loudspeakers, which emit high-end frequencies, 
positioned above the floor) and bass reinforcements (additional sets of 
subwoofers positioned at ground level) at the start of the 1970s in order 
to boost the treble and bass at opportune moments, and by the end of the 
decade sound engineers such as Richard Long had multiplied the effects 
of these innovations in venues such as the Garage."[10] The DJs played 
"... a smooth mix of long single records to keep people 'dancing all night 
long'".[55] Some of the most prestigious clubs had elaborate lighting systems 
that throbbed to the beat of the music. In October 1975 notable discos 
included "Studio One" in Los Angeles, "Leviticus" in New York, "Dugan's 
Bistro" in Chicago, and "The Library" in Atlanta.[56] In the late 1970s, 
Studio 54 in New York City was arguably the most well known nightclub in 
the world. This club played a major formative role in the growth of disco 
music and nightclub culture in general. In the early years, dancers in 
discos danced in a "hang loose" or "freestyle" approach. At first, many 
dancers improvised their own dance styles and dance steps. Later in the 
disco era, popular dance styles were developed, including the "Bump", "Penguin", 
"Boogaloo", "Watergate" and the "Robot". By October 1975 The Hustle reigned. 
It was highly stylized, sophisticated and overtly sexual. Variations included 
the Brooklyn Hustle, New York Hustle and Latin Hustle.[56] During the disco 
era, many nightclubs would commonly host disco dance competitions or offer 
free dance lessons. Some cities had disco dance instructors or dance schools, 
which taught people how to do popular disco dances such as "touch dancing, 
"the hustle, and the cha cha. The pioneer of disco dance instruction was 
Karen Lustgarten in San Francisco in 1973. Her book The Complete Guide 
to Disco Dancing (Warner Books, 1978) was the first to name, break down 
and codify popular disco dances as dance forms and distinguish between 
disco freestyle, partner and line dances. The book hit the New York Times 
bestseller list for 13 weeks and was translated into Chinese, German and 
French. In Chicago, the Step By Step disco dance TV show was launched with 
the sponsorship support of the Coca-Cola company. Produced in the same 
studio that Don Cornelius used for the nationally syndicated dance/music 
television show, Soul Train, Step by Step's audience grew and the show 
became a success. The dynamic dance duo of Robin and Reggie led the show. 
The pair spent the week teaching disco dancing to dancers in the disco 
clubs. The instructional show which aired on Saturday mornings had a following 
of dancers who would stay up all night on Fridays so they could be on the 
set the next morning, ready to return to the disco on Saturday night knowing 
with the latest personalized dance steps. The producers of the show, John 
Reid and Greg Roselli, routinely made appearances at disco functions with 
Robin and Reggie to scout out new dancing talent and promote upcoming events 
such as "Disco Night at White Sox Park". Some notable professional dance 
troupes of the 1970s included Pan's People and Hot Gossip. For many dancers, 
a key source of inspiration for 1970s disco dancing was the film Saturday 
Night Fever (1977). This developed into the music and dance style of such 
films as Fame (1980), Disco Dancer (1982), Flashdance (1983), and The Last 
Days of Disco (1998). Interest in disco dancing also helped spawn dance 
competition TV shows such as Dance Fever (1979). Disco fashions were very 
trendy in the late 1970s. Discothèque-goers often wore glamorous, expensive 
and extravagant fashions for nights out at their local disco club. Some 
women would wear sheer, flowing dresses, such as Halston dresses or loose, 
flared pants. Other women wore tight, revealing, sexy clothes, such as 
backless halter tops, "hot pants" or body-hugging spandex bodywear or "catsuits".[57] 
Men would wear shiny polyester Qiana shirts with colourful patterns and 
pointy, extra wide collars, preferably open at the chest. Men often wore 
Pierre Cardin suits, three piece suits with a vest and double-knit polyester 
shirt jackets with matching trousers known as the leisure suit. Men's leisure 
suits were typically form-fitted in some parts of the body, such as the 
waist and bottom, but the lower part of the pants were flared in a bell 
bottom style, to permit freedom of movement.[57] During the disco era, 
men engaged in elaborate grooming rituals and spent time choosing fashion 
clothing, both activities that would have been considered "feminine" according 
to the gender stereotypes of the era.[57] Women dancers wore glitter makeup, 
sequins or gold lamé clothing that would shimmer under the lights.[57] 
Bold colours were popular for both genders. Platform shoes and boots for 
both genders and high heels for women were popular footwear.[57] Necklaces 
and medallions were a common fashion accessory. Less commonly, some disco 
dancers wore outlandish costumes, dressed in drag, covered their bodies 
with gold or silver paint, or wore very skimpy outfits leaving them nearly 
nude; these uncommon get-ups were more likely to be seen at invitation-only 
New York City loft parties and disco clubs.[57] In addition to the dance 
and fashion aspects of the disco club scene, there was also a thriving 
drug subculture, particularly for drugs that would enhance the experience 
of dancing to the loud, bass-heavy music and the flashing coloured lights, 
such as cocaine[58] (nicknamed "blow"), amyl nitrite "poppers",[59] and 
the "... other quintessential 1970s club drug Quaalude, which suspended 
motor coordination and gave the sensation that one's arms and legs had 
turned to "Jell-O."[60] Quaaludes were so popular at disco clubs that the 
drug was nicknamed "disco biscuits".[61] Paul Gootenberg states that "[t]he 
relationship of cocaine to 1970s disco culture cannot be stressed enough..."[58] 
During the 1970s, the use of cocaine by well-to-do celebrities led to its 
"glamorization" and to the widely held view that it was a "soft drug".[62] 
Cocaine was also popular because its stimulating effect "...fueled all-night 
parties" at disco clubs.[63] LSD, marijuana, and "speed" (amphetamines) 
were also popular in disco clubs, and the use of these drugs "...contributed 
to the hedonistic quality of the dance floor experience."[64] Since disco 
dances were typically held in liquor licensed-nightclubs and dance clubs, 
alcoholic drinks were also consumed by dancers; some users intentionally 
combined alcohol with the consumption of other drugs, such as Quaaludes, 
for a stronger effect. According to Peter Braunstein, the "massive quantities 
of drugs ingested in discotheques produced the next cultural phenomenon 
of the disco era: rampant promiscuity and public sex. While the dance floor 
was the central arena of seduction, actual sex usually took place in the 
nether regions of the disco: bathroom stalls, exit stairwells, and so on. 
In other cases the disco became a kind of 'main course' in a hedonist's 
menu for a night out."[60] At The Saint nightclub, a high percentage of 
the gay male dancers and patrons would have sex in the club; they typically 
had unprotected sex, because in 1980, HIV-AIDS had not yet been identified.[65] 
At The Saint, "...dancers would elope to an un[monitored] upstairs balcony 
to engage in sex."[65] The promiscuity and public sex at discos was part 
of a broader trend towards exploring a freer sexual expression in the 1970s, 
an era that is also associated with "swingers clubs, hot tubs, [and] key 
parties."[66] Famous disco bars included the Paradise Garage and Crisco 
Disco as well as "... cocaine-filled celeb hangouts such as Manhattan's 
Studio 54," which was operated by Steve Rubell and Ian Schrager. Studio 
54 was notorious for the hedonism that went on within; the balconies were 
known for sexual encounters, and drug use was rampant. Its dance floor 
was decorated with an image of the "Man in the Moon" that included an animated 
cocaine spoon. The transition from the late-1970s disco styles to the early-1980s 
dance styles was marked primarily by the change from complex arrangements 
performed by large ensembles of studio session musicians (including a horn 
section and an orchestral string section), to a leaner sound, in which 
one or two singers would perform to the accompaniment of synthesizer keyboards 
and drum machines. In addition, dance music during the 1981–83 period borrowed 
elements from blues and jazz, creating a style different from the disco 
of the 1970s. This emerging music was still known as disco for a short 
time, as the word had become associated with any kind of dance music played 
in discothèques. Examples of early-1980s' dance sound performers include 
D. Train, Kashif, and Patrice Rushen. These changes were influenced by 
some of the notable R&B and jazz musicians of the 1970s, such as Stevie 
Wonder, Kashif and Herbie Hancock, who had pioneered "one-man-band"-type 
keyboard techniques. Some of these influences had already begun to emerge 
during the mid-1970s, at the height of disco's popularity. During the first 
years of the 1980s, the disco sound began to be phased out, and faster 
tempos and synthesized effects, accompanied by guitar and simplified backgrounds, 
moved dance music toward the funk and pop genres. This trend can be seen 
in singer Billy Ocean's recordings between 1979 and 1981. Whereas Ocean's 
1979 song American Hearts was backed with an orchestral arrangement played 
by the Los Angeles Symphony Orchestra, his 1981 song "One of Those Nights 
(Feel Like Gettin' Down)" had a more bare, stripped-down sound, with no 
orchestration or symphonic arrangements. This drift from the original disco 
sound is called post-disco. In this music scene there are rooted subgenres, 
such as Italo disco, techno, house, dance-pop, boogie, and early alternative 
dance.[67] During the early 1980s, dance music dropped the complicated 
song structure and orchestration that typified the disco sound. During 
the 1970s, many TV theme songs were produced (or older themes updated) 
with disco influenced music. Examples include S.W.A.T. (1975), Wonder Woman 
(1975), Charlie's Angels (1976), NBC Saturday Night At The Movies (1976), 
The Love Boat (1977), The Donahue Show (1977), CHiPs (1977), The Professionals 
(1977), Three's Company (1977), Dallas (1978), Kojak (1978), The Hollywood 
Squares (1979). The British Science Fiction program Space: 1999 (1975) 
also featured a soundtrack strongly influenced by disco. This was especially 
evident in the show's second season. The rising popularity of disco came 
in tandem with developments in the role of the DJ. DJing developed from 
the use of multiple record turntables and DJ mixers to create a continuous, 
seamless mix of songs, with one song transitioning to another with no break 
in the music to interrupt the dancing. The resulting DJ mix differed from 
previous forms of dance music in the 1960s, which were oriented towards 
live performances by musicians. This in turn affected the arrangement of 
dance music, since songs in the disco era typically contained beginnings 
and endings marked by a simple beat or riff that could be easily used to 
transition to a new song. The development of DJing was also influenced 
by new turntablism techniques, such as beatmatching, a process facilitated 
by the introduction of new turntable technologies such as the Technics 
SL-1200 MK 2, first sold in 1978, which had a precise variable pitch control 
and a direct drive motor. DJs were often avid record collectors, who would 
hunt through used record stores for obscure soul records and vintage funk 
recordings. DJs helped to introduce rare records and new artists to club 
audiences. In the 1970s, individual DJs became more prominent, and some 
DJs, such as Larry Levan, the resident at Paradise Garage, Jim Burgess 
and Tee Scott became famous in the disco scene. Levan, for example, developed 
a cult following amongst club-goers, who referred to his DJ sets as "Saturday 
Mass". Some DJs would use reel to reel tape recorders to make remixes and 
tape edits of songs. Some DJs who were making remixes made the transition 
from the DJ booth to becoming a record producer, notably Burgess. Scott 
developed several innovations. He was the first disco DJ to use three turntables 
as sound sources, the first to simultaneously play two beatmatched records, 
the first user of electronic effects units in his mixes and an innovator 
in mixing dialogue in from well-known movies into his mixes, typically 
over a percussion break. These mixing techniques were also applied to radio 
DJs, such as Ted Currier of WKTU and WBLS. About five years after the disco 
era came to a close in the late 1970s, rave culture began to emerge from 
the acid house scene.[68] Rave culture incorporated disco culture's same 
love of dance music played by DJs, recreational club drug exploration, 
sexual promiscuity, and hedonism. Although disco culture started out underground, 
it eventually thrived in the mainstream by the late 1970s; in contrast, 
the rave culture would make an effort to stay underground to avoid the 
animosity that was still surrounding disco and dance music. The rave scene 
also stayed underground to avoid law enforcement attention that was directed 
at the rave culture due to its use of secret, unauthorized warehouses for 
some dance events and its association with illegal club drugs like Ecstasy. 
The disco sound had a strong influence on early hip hop. Most of the early 
rap/hip-hop songs were created by isolating existing disco bass-guitar 
lines and dubbing over them with MC rhymes. The Sugarhill Gang used Chic's 
"Good Times" as the foundation for their 1979 hit "Rapper's Delight", generally 
considered to be the song that first popularized rap music in the United 
States and around the world. In 1982, Afrika Bambaataa released the single 
"Planet Rock", which incorporated electronica elements from Kraftwerk's 
"Trans-Europe Express" and "Numbers" as well as YMO's "Riot in Lagos". 
The Planet Rock sound also spawned a hip-hop electronic dance trend, electro 
music, which included songs such as Planet Patrol's "Play at Your Own Risk" 
(1982), C Bank's "One More Shot" (1982), Cerrone's "Club Underworld" (1984), 
Shannon's "Let the Music Play" (1983), Freeez's "I.O.U." (1983), Midnight 
Star's "Freak-a-Zoid" (1983), Chaka Khan's "I Feel For You" (1984). House 
music is a genre of electronic dance music that originated in Chicago in 
the early 1980s. It was initially popularized in Chicago, circa 1984. House 
music quickly spread to other American cities such as Detroit, New York 
City, and Newark – all of which developed their own regional scenes. In 
the mid-to-late 1980s, house music became popular in Europe as well as 
major cities in South America, and Australia.[69] Early house music commercial 
success in Europe saw songs such as "Pump Up The Volume" by MARRS (1987), 
"House Nation" by House Master Boyz and the Rude Boy of House (1987), "Theme 
from S'Express" by S'Express (1988) and "Doctorin' the House" by Coldcut 
(1988) in the pop charts. Since the early to mid-1990s, house music has 
been infused in mainstream pop and dance music worldwide. Early house music 
was generally dance-based music characterized by repetitive four on the 
floor beats, rhythms mainly provided by drum machines,[70] off-beat hi-hat 
cymbals, and synthesized basslines. While house displayed several characteristics 
similar to disco music, it was more electronic and minimalistic,[70] and 
the repetitive rhythm of house was more important than the song itself. 
As well, house did not use the lush string sections that were a key part 
of the disco sound. House music in the 2010s, while keeping several of 
these core elements, notably the prominent kick drum on every beat, varies 
widely in style and influence, ranging from the soulful and atmospheric 
deep house to the more minimalistic microhouse. House music has also fused 
with several other genres creating fusion subgenres,[70] such as euro house, 
tech house, electro house and jump house. The post-punk movement that originated 
in the late 1970s both supported punk rock's rule breaking while rejecting 
its move back to raw rock music.[71] Post-punk's mantra of constantly moving 
forward lent itself to both openness to and experimentation with elements 
of disco and other styles.[71] Public Image Limited is considered the first 
post-punk group.[71] The group's second album Metal Box fully embraced 
the "studio as instrument" methodology of disco.[71] The group's founder 
John Lydon, the former lead singer for the Sex Pistols, told the press 
that disco was the only music he cared for at the time. No wave was a subgenre 
of post-punk centered in New York City.[71] For shock value, James Chance, 
a notable member of the no wave scene, penned an article in the East Village 
Eye urging his readers to move uptown and get "trancin' with some superadioactive 
disco voodoo funk". His band James White and the Blacks wrote a disco album 
Off White.[71] Their performances resembled those of disco performers (horn 
section, dancers and so on).[71] In 1981 ZE Records led the transition 
from no wave into the more subtle mutant disco (post-disco/punk) genre.[71] 
Mutant disco acts such as Kid Creole and the Coconuts, Was Not Was, ESG 
and Liquid Liquid influenced several British post-punk acts such as New 
Order, Orange Juice and A Certain Ratio.[71] In the early 2000s the dance-punk 
(new rave in the United Kingdom) emerged as a part of a broader post punk 
revival. It fused elements of punk-related rock with different forms of 
dance music including disco. Klaxons, LCD Soundsystem, Death From Above 
1979, The Rapture and Shitdisco were among acts associated with the genre.[72][73][74][75][76] 
Nu-disco is a 21st-century dance music genre associated with the renewed 
interest in 1970s and early 1980s disco,[77] mid-1980s Italo disco, and 
the synthesizer-heavy Euro disco aesthetics.[78] The moniker appeared in 
print as early as 2002, and by mid-2008 was used by record shops such as 
the online retailers Juno and Beatport.[79] These vendors often associate 
it with re-edits of original-era disco music, as well as with music from 
European producers who make dance music inspired by original-era American 
disco, electro and other genres popular in the late 1970s and early 1980s. 
It is also used to describe the music on several American labels that were 
