Disco Demolition Night was an ill-fated baseball promotion that took place 
on July 12, 1979, at Comiskey Park in Chicago, Illinois. At the climax 
of the event, a crate filled with disco records was blown up on the field 
between games of the twi-night doubleheader between the Chicago White Sox 
and the Detroit Tigers. Many of those in attendance had come to see the 
explosion rather than the games and rushed onto the field after the detonation. 
The playing field was damaged both by the explosion and by the rowdy fans 
to the point where the White Sox were required to forfeit the second game 
of the doubleheader to the Tigers. In the late 1970s, dance-oriented disco 
music was very popular in the United States, particularly after being featured 
in hit films such as Saturday Night Fever (1977). Despite its popularity, 
disco sparked a backlash from rock music fans. This opposition was prominent 
enough that the White Sox, seeking to fill seats at Comiskey Park during 
a lackluster season, engaged Chicago shock jock and anti-disco campaigner 
Steve Dahl for the promotion at the July 12 doubleheader. Dahl's sponsoring 
radio station was 97.9 WLUP-FM, so attendees would pay 98 cents (equivalent 
to $3.20 in 2015) and bring a disco record; between games, Dahl would destroy 
the collected vinyl in an explosion. White Sox officials had hoped for 
a crowd of 20,000, about 5,000 more than usual. Instead, at least 50,000 
people—including tens of thousands of Dahl's adherents—packed the stadium, 
and thousands more continued to sneak in even after gates were closed. 
Many of the records were not collected by staff and were thrown like flying 
discs from the stands. After Dahl blew up the collected records, thousands 
of fans stormed the field and remained there until dispersed by riot police. 
The second game was initially postponed, but was forfeited by the White 
Sox the next day by order of American League president Lee MacPhail. Disco 
Demolition Night preceded, and may have helped precipitate, the decline 
of disco in late 1979; some scholars and disco artists have described the 
event as expressive of racism and homophobia while others have denied this 
connection. Disco Demolition Night remains well known as one of the most 
extreme promotions in major league history. The genre known as disco, named 
for its popularity in discotheques, evolved in the early 1970s in inner-city 
New York clubs, where disc jockeys would play imported dance music to get 
the crowd moving. With roots in African-American and Latin American music, 
and in gay culture, disco became mainstream by the mid-1970s. Even white 
artists associated with a much more sedate style of music had disco-influenced 
hits, such as Barry Manilow with "Copacabana".[1] By 1977, disco was very 
popular in the United States, especially after the release that year of 
the hit movie Saturday Night Fever.[2] This film starred John Travolta 
and featured music by the Bee Gees—the fact that both actor and performers 
were white and presented a heterosexual image did much to make disco widely 
popular. As Al Coury, president of RSO Records (which had released the 
bestselling soundtrack album for the film) put it, Saturday Night Fever 
"kind of took disco out of the closet."[3] Despite disco's popularity, 
there were many who disliked it. Some felt the music too mechanical—Time 
magazine deemed it a "diabolical thump-and-shriek".[2][4] Others hated 
the music for the lifestyle associated with it, feeling that in the disco 
scene, personal appearance and style of dress were overly important.[2][4] 
The media, in discussing disco, emphasized its roots in gay culture. According 
to historian Gillian Frank, "by the time of the Disco Demolition in Comiskey 
Park, the media commonly emphasized that disco was gay and cultivated a 
widespread perception that disco was taking over".[5] Performers who cultivated 
a gay image, such as the Village People (described by Rolling Stone as 
"the face of disco") did nothing to efface these perceptions, and fears 
that rock music would die at the hands of disco increased after disco albums 
dominated the 21st Grammy Awards in February 1979.[6] In 1978, New York's 
WKTU-FM, a low-rated rock station, switched to disco and became the most 
popular station in the country; this led other stations to try to emulate 
its success.[3] In Chicago, a 24-year-old Dahl was working as a disc jockey 
for local radio station WDAI when he was fired on Christmas Eve 1978 as 
part of the station's switch from rock to disco; Dahl was subsequently 
hired by rival album-rock station WLUP, "The Loop". Sensing an incipient 
anti-disco backlash[4][7] and playing off the publicity surrounding his 
firing (he frequently mocked WDAI's "Disco DAI" slogan on the air as "Disco 
DIE"), Dahl created a mock organization called "The Insane Coho Lips", 
an anti-disco army consisting of his listeners.[8] According to Andy Behrens 
of ESPN, Dahl and his broadcast partner Garry Meier "organized the Cohos 
around a simple and surprisingly powerful idea: Disco Sucks".[4] According 
to Dahl, in 1979, the Cohos were locked in a war "dedicated to the eradication 
of the dreaded musical disease known as DISCO".[9] In the weeks leading 
up to Disco Demolition Night, Dahl promoted a number of anti-disco public 
events, several of which became unruly. When a discotheque in Linwood, 
Indiana, switched from disco to rock in June, Dahl showed up, as did several 
thousand Cohos, and the police had to be called. Later that month, Dahl 
and several thousand Cohos occupied a teen disco in the Chicago suburbs. 
At the end of June, Dahl urged his listeners to throw marshmallows at a 
WDAI promotional van, which was at a shopping mall where a teen disco had 
been built. The Cohos chased the van and driver and cornered them in a 
nearby park, though the situation ended without violence. On July 1, a 
near-riot occurred in Hanover Park, Illinois, when hundreds of Cohos could 
not enter a sold-out promotional event, and fights broke out. Some 50 police 
officers were needed to control the situation. When disco star Van McCoy 
died suddenly on July 6, Dahl marked the occasion by destroying one of 
his records, "The Hustle", on the air.[10] Do ya think I'm disco Cuz I 
spend so much time Blow drying out my hair? Do ya think I'm disco Cuz I 
know the dance steps Learned them all at Fred Astaire? Dahl and Meier regularly 
mocked disco records on the radio. Dahl also recorded his own parody: "Do 
Ya Think I'm Disco?", a satire of Rod Stewart's disco-oriented hit "Da 
Ya Think I'm Sexy?"[8][12] This parody song presented discotheques as populated 
by effeminate men and frigid women. The lead character, named Tony like 
Travolta's character in Saturday Night Fever, is unable to attract a woman 
until he abandons the disco scene, selling his three-piece white suit at 
a garage sale and melting down his gold chains for a Led Zeppelin belt 
buckle.[13] A number of anti-disco incidents took place elsewhere in the 
first half of 1979, showing that "the Disco Demolition was not an isolated 
incident or an aberration". In Seattle, hundreds of rock fans attacked 
a mobile dance floor, while in Portland, Oregon, a disc jockey destroyed 
a stack of disco records with a chainsaw as thousands looked on and cheered. 
In New York, a rock deejay played Donna Summer's sexualized disco hit, 
"Hot Stuff"; he received protests from his listeners.[14] Since the 1940s, 
Chicago White Sox owner Bill Veeck had been noted for using promotions 
to attract fan interest; he stated "you can draw more people with a losing 
team plus bread and circuses than with a losing team and a long, still 
silence". His son, Mike, was the promotions director for the White Sox 
in 1979. Mike Veeck wrote in a letter to a fan before the season that team 
management intended to make sure that whether the White Sox won or lost, 
the fans would have fun.[15] On May 2, 1979, the Detroit Tigers – Chicago 
White Sox game at Comiskey Park was rained out. Officials rescheduled it 
as part of a twi-night doubleheader on July 12.[16] Already scheduled for 
the evening of July 12 was a promotion aimed at teenagers, who could purchase 
tickets at half the regular price.[15] The White Sox had had a "Disco Night" 
at Comiskey Park in 1977; Mike Veeck, WLUP Sales Manager Jeff Schwartz, 
and WLUP Promotions Director Dave Logan discussed the possibility of an 
anti-disco night promotion after Schwartz mentioned that the White Sox 
were looking to do a promotion with the station. The matter had also been 
brought up early in the 1979 season when Schwartz told Mike Veeck of Dahl 
and his plans to blow up a crate of disco records while live on the air 
from a shopping mall. During a meeting at WLUP, Dahl was asked if he would 
be interested in blowing up records at Comiskey Park on July 12. Since 
the radio frequency of WLUP was 97.9, the promotion for "Disco Demolition 
Night" (in addition to the offer for teenagers) was that anyone who brought 
a disco record to the ballpark would be admitted for 98 cents. Dahl was 
to blow up the collected records between games of the doubleheader.[15] 
In the weeks before the event Dahl invited his listeners to bring records 
they wanted to see destroyed to Comiskey Park.[17] The disc jockey feared 
that the promotion would fail to draw people to the ballpark, and that 
he would be humiliated. The previous night's attendance had been 15,520,[4] 
and Comiskey Park had a capacity of 44,492.[18] The White Sox were not 
having a good year, and were 40–46 going into the July 12 doubleheader.[4] 
The White Sox and WLUP hoped for a crowd of 20,000 people.[16] Mike Veeck 
hired enough security for 35,000.[19] Owner Bill Veeck was concerned the 
promotion might turn into a disaster and checked himself out of the hospital, 
where he had been undergoing tests.[19] The elder Veeck's fears were substantiated 
when he saw the people walking towards the ballpark that afternoon; many 
carried signs that described disco in profane terms.[4][15] The doubleheader 
sold out, leaving at least 20,000 people outside the ballpark.[15] Some 
were not content to remain there, leaping turnstiles, climbing fences, 
and entering through open windows.[20] The attendance was officially reported 
as 47,795.[21] Bill Veeck estimated that there were anywhere from 50,000 
to 55,000 in the park—easily the largest crowd of his second stint as White 
Sox owner.[22] The Chicago Police Department closed off-ramps from the 
Dan Ryan Expressway near the stadium.[4] Attendees were supposed to deposit 
their records into a large box, some 4 by 6 by 5 feet (1.2 by 1.8 by 1.5 m) 
tall; once the box was overflowing, many people brought their discs to 
their seats.[23] The first game was to begin at 6 pm, with the second game 
to follow.[24] Lorelei, a model who did public appearances for WLUP and 
who was very popular in Chicago that summer for her sexually provocative 
poses in the station's advertisements, threw out the first pitch.[25][26] 
As the first game began, Mike Veeck got word that thousands of people were 
trying to get into the park without tickets. He sent his security personnel 
to the stadium gates to keep the would-be gate crashers at bay. This left 
the field unattended, and fans began throwing the uncollected disco LPs 
and singles from the stands. Tigers outfielder Rusty Staub remembered that 
the records would slice through the air, and land sticking out of the ground. 
He urged teammates to wear batting helmets when playing their positions, 
"It wasn't just one, it was many. Oh, God almighty, I've never seen anything 
so dangerous in my life."[27] Attendees also threw firecrackers, empty 
liquor bottles, and lighters onto the field. The game was stopped several 
times because of the rain of foreign objects.[15] Dozens of hand-painted 
banners with such slogans as "Disco sucks" were hung from the ballpark's 
seating decks.[25] White Sox broadcaster Harry Caray could see groups of 
people, who were clearly music rather than baseball fans, wandering through 
the stadium. Others sat intently in their seats, awaiting the explosion.[28] 
Mike Veeck later remembered an odor of marijuana in the grandstand and 
said of the attendees, "This is the Woodstock they never had."[19] The 
miasma permeated the press box, which both Caray and his broadcast partner, 
Jimmy Piersall, commented on over the air.[23] The crowds outside the stadium 
threw records as well, or gathered them together and burned them in bonfires.[27] 
Detroit won the first game, 4–1.[4] The first game ended at 8:16 pm; at 
8:40 Dahl, dressed in army fatigues and a helmet,[25] emerged onto the 
playing surface together with Meier and Lorelei. They proceeded to center 
field where the vinyl-filled box awaited, though they first did a lap of 
the field in a Jeep, showered (according to Dahl, lovingly) by his troops 
with firecrackers and beer. The large box containing the collected records 
had been rigged with explosives. Dahl and Meier warmed up the crowd, leading 
attendees in a chant of "disco sucks". Lorelei recalled that the view from 
center field was surreal. On the mound, White Sox pitcher Ken Kravec, scheduled 
to start the second game, began to warm up. Other White Sox, in the dugout 
and wearing batting helmets, looked out upon the scene. Fans who felt events 
were getting out of control and who wished to leave the ballpark had difficulty 
doing so; in an effort to deny the intruders entry, security had padlocked 
all but one gate.[4][20] Dahl told the crowd, This is now officially the 
world's largest anti-disco rally! Now listen—we took all the disco records 
you brought tonight, we got 'em in a giant box, and we're gonna blow 'em 
up reeeeeeal goooood.[23] Dahl set off the explosives, destroying the records 
and tearing a large hole in the outfield grass.[28] With most of the security 
personnel still watching the gates per Mike Veeck's orders, there was almost 
no one guarding the playing surface.[21] Immediately, the first of what 
would be thousands of attendees rushed onto the field, causing Kravec to 
flee the mound and join his teammates in a barricaded clubhouse. Between 
5,000 and 7,000 people are estimated to have taken the field. Some climbed 
the foul poles, others set records on fire, or ripped up the grass. The 
batting cage was destroyed; the bases were pulled up and stolen. Among 
those taking the field was 21-year-old aspiring actor Michael Clarke Duncan; 
during the melee, Duncan slid into third base, had a silver belt buckle 
stolen,[29] and went home with a bat from the dugout.[30] As Bill Veeck 
stood with a microphone near where home plate had been, begging people 
to return to the stands, a bonfire raged in center field.[4][16][20][31] 
Years later, Lorelei remembered that she had been waving to the crowd when 
she was grabbed by two of the bodyguards who had accompanied the Jeep and 
placed her back in the vehicle. The party was unable to return to home 
plate because of the rowdy fans, so the Jeep was driven out of the stadium 
and through the surrounding streets, to the delight of the many Cohos outside 
the stadium who recognized the occupants. They were driven to the front 
of the stadium, ushered back inside, and taken up to the press room where 
they had spent most of the first game.[26] Caray unsuccessfully attempted 
to restore order by the public address system. The scoreboard, flashing 
"PLEASE RETURN TO YOUR SEATS", was ignored as was the playing of "Take 
Me Out to the Ball Game". Some of the attendees were dancing in circles 
around the burning vinyl shards.[23] Dahl offered his help to get the rowdy 
fans to leave, but it was declined.[32] At 9:08 pm,[14] Chicago police 
in full riot gear arrived to the applause of the baseball fans remaining 
in the stands. Those on the field hastily dispersed upon seeing the police. 
Thirty-nine people were arrested for disorderly conduct; estimates of injuries 
to those at the event range from none to over thirty.[20] Bill Veeck wanted 
the teams to play the second game once order was restored. However, the 
field was so badly torn up that umpiring crew chief Dave Phillips felt 
that it was still not playable even after White Sox groundskeepers spent 
an hour clearing away debris. Tigers manager Sparky Anderson refused to 
allow his players to take the field in any event due to safety concerns. 
Phillips called American League president Lee MacPhail, who postponed the 
second game to Sunday after hearing a report on conditions. Anderson, however, 
demanded that the game be forfeited to the Tigers. He argued that under 
baseball's rules, a game can only be postponed due to an act of God, and 
that, as the home team, the White Sox were responsible for field conditions. 
The next day, MacPhail forfeited the second game to the Tigers 9–0. In 
a ruling that largely upheld Anderson's arguments, MacPhail stated that 
the White Sox had failed to provide acceptable playing conditions.[4][22][33][34] 
The day after, Dahl began his regular morning broadcast by reading the 
indignant headlines in the local papers. He mocked the coverage, "I think 
for the most part everything was wonderful. Some maniac Cohos got wild, 
went down on the field. Which you shouldn't have done. Bad little Cohos." 
Tigers manager Anderson stated of the events, "Beer and baseball go together, 
they have for years. But I think those kids were doing things other than 
beer."[4] Columnist David Israel of the Chicago Tribune commented on July 
12 that he was not surprised by what had occurred, "It would have happened 
any place 50,000 teenagers got together on a sultry summer night with beer 
and reefer." White Sox pitcher Rich Wortham, a Texan, suggested, "This 
wouldn't have happened if they had country and western night."[35] Although 
Bill Veeck took much of the public criticism for the fiasco, his son Mike 
suffered repercussions as the actual front-office promoter behind it. Mike 
Veeck remained with the White Sox until late 1980, when he resigned; his 
father sold the team to Jerry Reinsdorf soon afterward. He was unable to 
find a job in baseball for several years, leading him to claim that he 
had been blackballed from the game. For several years, he worked for a 
jai-alai fronton in Florida, battling alcoholism.[36] As Mike Veeck related, 
"The second that first guy shimmied down the outfield wall, I knew my life 
was over!"[28] Mike Veeck has since become an owner of minor league baseball 
teams[37] and in July 2014 the Charleston RiverDogs, of whom Veeck is president, 
held a promotion involving the destruction of Justin Bieber and Miley Cyrus 
merchandise.[38][39][40] Dahl is still a radio personality in Chicago and 
also reaches his listeners through podcasting.[41] The popularity of disco 
declined significantly in late 1979 and 1980. Many disco artists continued, 
but record companies began labeling their recordings as dance music.[1] 
Dahl stated in a 2004 interview that disco was "probably on its way out. 
But I think it [Disco Demolition Night] hastened its demise".[42] According 
to Frank, "the Disco Demolition triggered a nationwide expression of anger 
against disco that caused disco to recede quickly from the American cultural 
landscape".[43] Music critic Dave Marsh recalled his feelings after Disco 
Demolition Night, "It was your most paranoid fantasy about where the ethnic 
cleansing of the rock radio could ultimately lead."[1] Marsh, who wrote 
for Rolling Stone, was one of the few who at the time deemed the event 
an expression of bigotry, writing in a column, "white males, eighteen to 
thirty-four are the most likely to see disco as the product of homosexuals, 
blacks, and Latins, and therefore they're the most likely to respond to 
appeals to wipe out such threats to their security. It goes almost without 
saying that such appeals are racist and sexist, but broadcasting has never 
been an especially civil-libertarian medium."[44] Nile Rodgers, producer 
and guitarist for the disco-era group Chic, deemed the event akin to Nazi 
book burning. Gloria Gaynor, who had a huge disco hit with "I Will Survive", 
stated, "I've always believed it was an economic decision—an idea created 
by someone whose economic bottom line was being adversely affected by the 
popularity of disco music. So they got a mob mentality going."[1] Historian 
J. Zeitz suggests that while "an obvious explanation for the Disco Demolition 
Night riot might center on the desire of white, working-class baseball 
fans to strike out against an art form that they associated with African 
Americans, gays and lesbians, and Latinos",[45] he notes that that demographic 
group (from which many of the July 12 participants came) swung wildly in 
the 1980 presidential primaries and election, first supporting liberal 
Massachusetts Senator Edward M. Kennedy in the Democratic primary, then 
the conservative Republican nominee, former California governor Ronald 
Reagan, in the general election, both times opposing President Jimmy Carter. 
"Viewed in this light, Disco Demolition Night supports an altogether different 
interpretation of the 1970s as a decade that saw ordinary Americans gravitate 
to radical grassroots alternatives, both left and right, out of frustration 
with the political center."[46] Concerning the event, University of East 
London professor Tim Lawrence also proposes that, "Following the unexpected 
commercial success of Saturday Night Fever, major record companies had 
started to invest heavily in a sound that their white straight executive 
class did not care for, and when the overproduction of disco coincided 
with a deep recession, the homophobic (and also in many respects sexist 
and racist) 'disco sucks' campaign culminated with a record burning rally 
that was staged at the home of the Chicago White Sox in July 1979."[47] 
Nevertheless, Harry Wayne Casey, singer for the disco act KC and the Sunshine 
Band, did not believe Disco Demolition Night itself was discriminatory, 
and stated his belief that Dahl was simply an idiot. Dahl himself rejects 
the notion that prejudice was his motivation for Disco Demolition Night. 
"The worst thing is people calling Disco Demolition homophobic or racist. 
It just wasn't ... We weren't thinking like that."[4] In 2014 Dahl stated 
that the racist/homophobic view of Disco Demolition Night stemmed from 
a 1996 VH1 documentary, The Seventies, which presented it in that light;[11] 
Mark W. Anderson, in response, suggested that the event gave the participants 
an opportunity "to say they didn't like ... who they saw as the potential 
victors in a cultural and demographic war ... its [sic] hard to believe 
few if any of those who organized the event didn't see that underlying 
reality for what it was".[48] The unplayed second game remains the last 
American League game to be forfeited.[49] The last National League game 
to be forfeited was on August 10, 1995, when a baseball giveaway promotion 
at Dodger Stadium went awry, forcing the Los Angeles Dodgers to concede 
the game to the St. Louis Cardinals.[50] According to baseball analyst 
Jeremiah Graves, "To this day Disco Demolition Night stands in infamy as 
one of the most ill-advised promotions of all-time, but arguably one of 
the most successful as 30 years later we're all still talking about it."[33] 
