In sports, a division is a group of teams who compete against each other 
for a championship. In sports using a league system (also known as a pyramid 
structure), a division consists of a group of teams who play a sport at 
a similar competitive level. Teams can move up to a higher division of 
play or drop down to a lower one via the process of promotion and relegation, 
based on their performance in the standings at the end of the season. The 
existence of divisions based on level of competition ensures that teams 
at one competitive level can play other teams at a similar competitive 
level, thus creating parity and more exciting matches. In North America, 
where sports usually operate on a franchise system rather than a league 
system, a division is a group of teams within a league which is organized 
along geographical lines rather than competitive success. Teams based in 
cities that are in a particular region of the continent are grouped together 
in the same division. For instance, in Major League Baseball, both the 
American and National Leagues have East, Central, and West divisions; the 
teams in each division are mostly (but not always) located in the eastern, 
central, and western sections of North America respectively. In a franchise 
system, teams are not promoted or relegated as are teams in a league system. 
All teams in the league (and by extension, the divisions of the league) 
are at the same competitive level and remain so year after year. North 
American professional sports leagues often construct their season schedules 
in a way such that teams in a division play matches against each other 
more often than other teams in the league. This not only has the effect 
of reducing travel costs, but also creates exciting rivalries between the 
teams in the division. Moreover, the top teams in a division qualify for 
the postseason playoff tournament that crowns the league champion, which 
heightens the rivalries between the teams in a division. Geographically-based 
divisions can become skewed if an expansion team joins the league or if 
one of the franchises within a division moves to another city, necessitating 
a shuffling or realignment of the teams in a division. Furthermore, the 
results of the realignment may not always reflect geographical realities. 
For instance, in 2016, the St. Louis Rams of the National Football League 
(NFL) moved to Los Angeles, California and became the Los Angeles Rams. 
The team retained its place in the NFC West division despite the fact that 
St. Louis is further east than Dallas, Texas, home of the Dallas Cowboys. 
Although Dallas is located in the south-central United States, the Cowboys 
are a member of the NFC East division due to their long-standing rivalries 
with the New York Giants, Philadelphia Eagles, and Washington Redskins, 
all of whom are located on the Eastern seaboard. In U.S. college sports, 
a "division" has a meaning different from either sense listed above, although 
somewhat closer to that of the league system. The major governing bodies 
for college sports, the NCAA and NAIA, divide their member schools into 
large competitive groups. These groups are much larger than divisions in 
either the league or franchise system—for example, the NCAA's highest competitive 
level, Division I, has more than 300 member schools. The vast majority 
of teams are members of conferences, smaller groupings that usually have 
between 6 and 14 members. Conference champions, plus selected other teams, 
compete in national championship tournaments (with the exception of schools 
in the highest level of NCAA (American) football, which have never had 
an NCAA-recognized national championship). As an example, the NCAA is split 
into three divisions: The term division is also used in US college sports 
to indicate the groupings of members of a given conference. However, this 
usage is more recent. The first conference to divide its teams into divisions 
was the Southeastern Conference which, upon expanding to 12 members in 
1992, divided into Eastern and Western divisions. Other conferences have 
undergone similar expansion and division. The usage in the section above 
is still maintained. For example, the Georgia Bulldogs are in Division 
I, but are also in the Eastern Division of the Southeastern Conference. 
