The Division Series (also known as the League Division Series) is the quarterfinal 
round of the Major League Baseball playoffs. As with any quarterfinal in 
a best of tournament, a total of four series are played in this round, 
two each for both the American League and the National League. The first 
use of the term "Division Series" dates from 1981, when due to a mid-season 
players' strike, that season was divided into two halves, with the winners 
of each half from each division playing one another in a best-of-five series 
to decide which team would represent that division in the League Championship 
Series (this format being common in minor-league baseball). But because 
the two halves of the season were independent of one another, the winner 
of the first half had no real incentive to try to win the second half as 
well (since, unlike in the minor leagues, if the same team did win both 
halves it was not given a bye into the next round), and a team that won 
neither half could have actually had the best overall record in the division; 
indeed, the latter actually occurred, as the Cincinnati Reds and the St. 
Louis Cardinals had the two best won-lost records (in both halves of the 
season combined) in the National League (and at the time were in separate 
divisions, the Reds in the West and the Cardinals in the East), with the 
Reds having the best overall winning percentage in all of Major League 
Baseball, yet neither advanced to the playoffs because they finished second 
in their divisions in each half. Until 2012, when the rules changed, this 
was the only Division Series which actually consisted of teams from the 
same division playing each other. In 1993, the owners approved to institute 
the Division Series, given the fact that three of the four series went 
to a game 5.[1] Originally the format called for the top team in the AL 
East to play the 2nd place team on the AL West and vice versa. In 1994, 
both the National League and the American League realigned, with the number 
of divisions in both increasing from two to three (with fewer teams in 
each). At the same time, the number of teams qualifying for baseball's 
postseason was doubled, from four to eight; henceforth the three first-place 
teams from each league's divisions would reach the postseason, along with 
one wild card team from each league (the latter being the second-place 
finisher with the best regular-season record). However, this expanded playoff 
format would not return until the following year, because a players' strike, 
which began on August 12, 1994, led to the cancellation of that season's 
playoffs and World Series (and caused the 1995 regular season to have 18 
fewer games for each team than normal). Throughout its existence, the Division 
Series has been best-of-five; however, both the method of awarding home-field 
advantage in the series and which games the team getting the advantage 
would host were changed in 1998. Originally, the Eastern, Central and Western 
Division champions rotated home-site priority, with the two of them getting 
the extra home game and the third one and the wild card not. The 2–3 format 
was used in which the team with the disadvantage hosted the first two games 
and the team with the advantage hosting the remaining game(s). This meant 
the team with the disadvantage had absolutely no chance of winning the 
series at home. A similar format had also been used for the League Championship 
Series from 1969-1984. It also allowed the disadvantaged teams the unusual 
luxury of starting a series at home, possibly having home field advantage 
in a three-game series, and a guarantee that they play the maximum number 
of games possible at home (2). This format was changed in 1998 to a 2-2-1 
format. Also changed in 1998 was who played who in the division series 
rather than a rotation deciding. This was needed because there was a 39.5% 
chance each year that at least one of the leagues would have their top 
two division champions meet in the Division Series, allowing the worst 
division champion to have the "advantage" of playing the wild card. The 
two division champions with the best regular-season records have been accorded 
with the home field advantage. Also, the format changed to a 2-2-1 layout 
with the team having home-field advantage hosting the first, second and 
(if necessary) fifth games; with this newer format, the lower seeded team 
actually gets two chances out of three to win the series on its home field 
although the higher seeded team hosts three out of five games overall. 
In both the AL and the NL the three division champions are automatically 
given the top three seeds, seeded 1-3 based on record, and the wildcard 
is given the 4th seed regardless of record. In both the AL and the NL, 
the 1 seed played the 4 seed and the 2 seed played the 3 seed, unless the 
1 and 4 seed are in the same division. Because teams from the same division 
cannot play each other in the first round, if the normal matchups would 
cause this, then the 1 seed played the 3 seed, and the 2 seed played the 
4 seed. In all cases the 1 and 2 seed have home field advantage. From 2007–2011, 
the 1 seed of the league that wins the All-Star game is given another advantage, 
being allowed to choose their schedule for the series. They can either 
choose to have an extra day off (usually between games 1 and 2) during 
the division series and start a day early, or start a day late, with one 
less off day (only having travel days off, between games 2 and 3, and if 
necessary 4 and 5). The American League's best record received this option 
from 2007–2009 and the National League's best record received it in 2010.[2] 
A revised playoff system was utilized beginning with the 2012 season, which 
added a second wild card team for each league. The two wild card teams 
in each league play a one game playoff to advance. The winner of this game 
automatically faces the number 1 seed in the league in the Division Series, 
regardless of whether or not they are in the same division. Due to scheduling 
conflicts, the 2012 Division Series featured the lower seed hosting the 
first two games, with the higher seed hosting the next three games. For 
2013 and beyond, the Division Series uses the 2-2-1 format previously used.[3] 
There has been some criticism on how Major League Baseball schedules Division 
Series games. Teams with large national fan followings like the New York 
Yankees are almost always scheduled to play in prime time at 8 p.m. ET/5 
p.m. PT to generate the highest TV ratings. As a result, West Coast teams 
generally have to play on the road at 1 p.m. ET/10 a.m. PT when many of 
their fans are unable to watch the game because they are at work or school.[4][5] 
Conversely, when games on the West Coast are played at 10 p.m. ET/7 p.m. 
PT, many fans on the East Coast are unable to watch a game in its entirety, 
due to games ending around 1 a.m. ET/10 p.m. PT, while most West Coast 
fans are able to watch the entire game. However, during the inaugural and 
1995 seasons, the Division and League Championship Series was aired by 
the league's television operation, The Baseball Network, a syndication 
package between ABC and NBC. In order to increase viewership, all games 
were played in primetime at consistent times, and each affiliate of the 
network carrying the series could only air one of the games each night, 
determined by the station's area. While this prevented the issue of afternoon 
games (and did, as planned, increase viewership), the plan drew ire from 
critics for not allowing viewers to choose the games they want to watch 
