Jay Hanna "Dizzy" Dean (January 16, 1910 – July 17, 1974), also known as 
Jerome Herman Dean, was an American professional baseball player.[1] He 
played in Major League Baseball as a pitcher for the St. Louis Cardinals, 
Chicago Cubs and the St. Louis Browns. A brash and colorful personality, 
Dean was the last National League pitcher to win 30 games in one season.[2] 
After his playing career, he became a popular television sports commentator. 
Dean was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1953.[3] When the Cardinals 
reopened the team Hall of Fame in 2014, Dean was inducted among the inaugural 
class. Dean was best known for winning 30 games in the 1934 season while 
leading the 1934 "Gashouse Gang" St. Louis team to the National League 
Pennant and the World Series win over the Detroit Tigers. He had a 30–7 
record with a 2.66 ERA during the regular season. His brother, Paul, was 
also on the team, with a record of 19-11, and was nicknamed "Daffy", although 
this was usually only done for press consumption. Though "Diz" sometimes 
called his brother "Daf", he typically referred to himself and his brother 
as "Me an' Paul". Continuing the theme, the team included Dazzy Vance and 
Joe "Ducky" Medwick. The Gashouse Gang was the southernmost and westernmost 
team in the major leagues at the time, and became a de facto "America's 
Team." Team members, particularly Southerners such as the Dean brothers 
and Pepper Martin, became folk heroes in Depression-ravaged America. Americans 
saw in these players, dirty and hustling rather than handsome and graceful, 
a spirit of hard work and perseverance, as opposed to the haughty, highly 
paid New York Giants, whom the Cardinals chased for the National League 
pennant. Much like later sports legends Joe Namath and Muhammad Ali, Dizzy 
liked to brag about his prowess and make public predictions. In 1934, Dizzy 
predicted, "Me an' Paul are gonna win 45 games."[2] On September 21, Diz 
pitched no-hit ball for eight innings against the Brooklyn Dodgers, finishing 
with a three-hit shutout in the first game of a doubleheader, his 27th 
win of the season. Paul then threw a no-hitter in the nightcap, to win 
his 18th, matching the 45 that Diz had predicted. "Gee, Paul", Diz was 
heard to say in the locker room afterward, "if I'd a-known you was gonna 
throw a no-hitter, I'd a-throw'ed one too!" He also bet he could strike 
out Vince DiMaggio four times in one game. He struck him out his first 
three at-bats, but when DiMaggio hit a popup behind the plate at his fourth, 
Dean screamed at his catcher, "Drop it!, Drop it!" The catcher did and 
Dean fanned DiMaggio, winning the bet. Few in the press now doubted Diz's 
boast, as he was also fond of saying, "If ya done it, it ain't braggin'." 
Diz finished with 30 wins, the only NL pitcher to do so in the post-1920 
live-ball era, and Paul finished with 19, for a total of 49. The Cards 
needed them all to edge the Giants for the pennant, setting up a matchup 
with the American League champion Detroit Tigers. After the season, Dizzy 
Dean was awarded the National League's Most Valuable Player Award. Dean 
was known for antics which inspired his nickname. In time, perception became 
reality. In Game 4 of the 1934 World Series against the Detroit Tigers, 
Dean was sent to first base as a pinch runner. The next batter hit a potential 
double play groundball. Intent on avoiding the double play, Dean threw 
himself in front of the throw to first. The ball struck him on the head, 
and Dean was knocked unconscious and taken to a hospital. The storied (and 
possibly apocryphal) sports-section headline the next day said, "X-ray 
of Dean's head reveals nothing." [4] The St. Louis Post-Dispatch and the 
Detroit Free Press merely stated that the X-rays "revealed no lasting injury". 
However, Dean was reported saying his head was too hard for a baseball 
to hurt it. Although the Tigers went on to win the game 10-4, Dean recovered 
in time to pitch in Game 5 which he lost. After the Cardinals won Game 
6, Dean came back and pitched a complete game shutout in Game 7 to win 
the game and the Series for the Cardinals. In the World Series the Dean 
brothers accounted for all, with two each, of the Cardinals wins.[5] While 
pitching for the NL in the 1937 All-Star Game, Dean faced Earl Averill 
of the American League Cleveland Indians. Averill hit a line drive back 
at the mound, hitting Dean on the foot. Told that his big toe was fractured, 
Dean responded, "Fractured, hell, the damn thing's broken!" Coming back 
too soon from the injury, Dean changed his pitching motion to avoid landing 
as hard on his sore toe enough to affect his mechanics. As a result, he 
hurt his arm, losing his great fastball.[6] By 1938, Dean's arm was largely 
gone. Chicago Cubs scout Clarence "Pants" Rowland was tasked with the unenviable 
job of obeying owner P. K. Wrigley's direct order to buy a washed-up Dizzy 
Dean's contract at any cost. Rowland signed the ragged righty for $185,000, 
one of the most expensive loss-leader contracts in baseball history. Dean 
helped the Cubs win the 1938 National League pennant. The Cubs had been 
in third place, six games behind the first place Pittsburgh Pirates led 
by Pie Traynor.[7] By September 27, with one week left in the season, the 
Cubs had battled back to within a game and a half game of the Pirates in 
the National League standings as the two teams met for a crucial three-game 
series.[7] Dean pitched the opening game of the series and with an ailing 
arm, relied more on his experience and grit to defeat the Pirates by a 
score of 2 to 1.[6] Dean would later call it the greatest outing of his 
career.[6] The victory cut the Pirates' lead to a half game and, set the 
stage for one of baseball's most memorable moments when in the next game 
of the series, Cubs player-manager, Gabby Hartnett, hit his famous "Homer 
in the Gloamin'" to put the Cubs into first place.[8] The Cubs clinched 
the pennant three days later.[7] Dean pitched gamely in Game 2 of the 1938 
World Series before losing to the New York Yankees in what became known 
as "Ol' Diz's Last Stand."[citation needed] Dean made a one-game comeback 
on September 28, 1947. After retiring as a player, the still-popular Dean 
was hired as a broadcaster by the perennially cash-poor Browns to drum 
up some badly needed publicity. After broadcasting several poor pitching 
performances in a row, he grew frustrated, saying on the air, "Doggone 
it, I can pitch better than nine out of the ten guys on this staff!" The 
wives of the Browns pitchers complained, and management, needing to sell 
tickets somehow, took him up on his offer and had him pitch the last game 
of the season. At age 37, Dean pitched four innings, allowing no runs, 
and rapped a single in his only at-bat. Rounding first base, he pulled 
his hamstring. Returning to the broadcast booth at the end of the game, 
he said, "I said I can pitch better than nine of the ten guys on the staff, 
and I can. But I'm done. Talking's my game now, and I'm just glad that 
muscle I pulled wasn't in my throat." In the 1950s, he appeared in guest 
starring roles on Faye Emerson's Wonderful Town on CBS and on The Guy Mitchell 
Show on ABC. Following his playing career Dean became a well-known radio 
and television sportscaster, calling baseball for the Cardinals (1941–46), 
Browns (1941–48), Yankees (1950–51), and Atlanta Braves (1966–68) and nationally 
with Mutual (1952), ABC (1953–54), and CBS (1955–1965), where he teamed 
first with Buddy Blattner then with Pee Wee Reese. As a broadcaster, Dean 
was famous for his wit and his often-colorful butchering of the English 
language. Much like football star-turned-sportscaster Terry Bradshaw years 
later, he chose to build on, rather than counter, his image as a not-too-bright 
country boy, as a way of entertaining fans: "The Good Lord was good to 
me. He gave me a strong right arm, a good body, and a weak mind." He once 
saw Browns outfielder Al Zarilla slide into a base, and said, "Zarilla 
slud into third!" "Slud" instead of "slid" became a frequently-used Dean 
expression. Thanks to baseball fan Charles Schulz, another Dean expression 
found its way into a Peanuts strip, as Lucy commented on a batter who swung 
at a pitch outside the strike zone: "He shouldn't hadn't ought-a swang!" 
Once, describing a player who had struck out, Dean said, "he nonchalantly 
walks back to the dugout in disgust." While doing a game on CBS, Dean once 
said, over the open mike, "I don't know why they're calling this the Game 
of the Week. There's a much better game, Dodgers and Giants, over on NBC." 
Every so often, he would sign off by saying, "Don't fail to miss tomorrow's 
game!" During rain delays he was famous for off-key renditions of the "Wabash 
Cannonball". These manglings of the language only endeared Dean to fans, 
being a precursor of such beloved ballplayers-turned-broadcasters as Ralph 
Kiner, Herb Score, and Jerry Coleman. An English teacher once wrote to 
him, complaining that he shouldn't use the word "ain't" on the air, as 
it was a bad example to children. On the air, Dean said, "A lot of folks 
who ain't sayin' 'ain't,' ain't eatin'. So, Teach, you learn 'em English, 
and I'll learn 'em baseball." After leaving sportscasting in the late 1960s, 
Dean settled with his wife, Patricia, in her hometown—Bond, Mississippi.[12] 
Dean died July 17, 1974 at age 64 in Reno, Nevada, of a heart attack, and 
was buried in the Bond Cemetery.[13] Dean's home in Bond was named Deanash, 
a combination of his name and his wife's maiden name (Nash); it was willed 
by Dean's wife to the Mississippi Baptist Convention, which operates foster 
homes for children in a rural setting.[14] The Pride of St. Louis, a motion 
picture loosely based on Dean's career, was released in 1952. Dan Dailey 
portrayed Dean. Chet Huntley, who would later gain fame as an NBC News 
anchorman, played an uncredited role in the movie as Dean's radio announcing 
sidekick. A Dizzy Dean Museum was established at 1152 Lakeland Drive in 
Jackson, Mississippi. The Dean exhibit is now part of the Mississippi Sports 
Hall of Fame & Museum, located adjacent to Smith-Wills Stadium, a former 
minor-league baseball park.[15] Dean was mentioned in the poem "Line-Up 
for Yesterday" by Ogden Nash: D is for Dean, The grammatical Diz, When 
they asked, Who's the tops? Said correctly, I is. Dean was referenced in 
the classic TV sitcom The Honeymooners by the character Ed Norton, who 
justified mooching a second dinner off of Ralph Kramden by saying, "Just 
like Dizzy Dean warms up in the bull pen before a game, I warm up by having 
my first dinner." Later in the scene, when tensions rise, Kramden quips 
"Shut up, Dizzy Dean, and eat your spaghetti!"[citation needed] Dean was 
parodied in the 1936 Merrie Melodies cartoon Boulevardier from the Bronx 
with a character named Dizzy Dan. Dean was also referenced in the 1939 
Laurel and Hardy film A Chump at Oxford, when Oliver Hardy unknowingly 
called the character of the actual dean at the famous Oxford University 
a "dizzy dean". Dean is also featured prominently in some versions of Abbott 
and Costello's "Who's on First?" comedy sketch. In the sketch, Abbott is 
explaining to Costello that many ballplayers have unusual nicknames including 
Dizzy Dean, his brother Daffy Dean, and their "French cousin Goofé Dean" 
("goofy" pronounced with a French accent). Actor Ben Jones wrote and performed 
a one-man play about Dean, entitled Ol' Diz. The United States Congress 
designated the U.S. Post Office in Wiggins, Mississippi as the "Jay Hanna 
'Dizzy' Dean Post Office" in 2000 by Public Law 106-236.[17] On October 
22, 2007, a rest area on U.S. Route 49 in Wiggins, Mississippi, five miles 
south of Dean's home in Bond, Mississippi, was named "Dizzy Dean Rest Area" 
after Dean.[18] In Morrison Bluff, Arkansas; about 2 miles south of Clarksville, 
Arkansas; there is a restaurant, Porky's, with Dizzy Dean memorabilia. 
In 2015, author Carolyn E. Mueller and illustrator Ed Koehler, published 
an animated book titled Dizzy Dean and the Gashouse Gang. (ISBN 978-1-68106-002-6) 
The book showcases the antics of Dizzy and his brother Paul Dean, Joe Medwick, 
Pepper Martin, player/manager Frankie Frisch, and the 1934 St. Louis Cardinals 
