Albert John Bushong, D.D.S (September 15, 1856 – August 19, 1908), known 
as Doc Bushong, was a catcher in Major League Baseball. Bushong also made 
appearances as an umpire and after his retirement from baseball, he practiced 
as a dentist. Some sources credit him with the invention of the catcher's 
mitt. Descended from the Colonial immigrant Bushong family, Albert John 
Bushong was born September 15, 1856, in Philadelphia, the son of Charles 
A. Bushong and Margaret Moore Bushong.[nb 1][1] Bushong attended public 
schools in Philadelphia and graduated from Central High School in 1876.[2] 
After playing baseball in various minor league teams for a couple of years, 
he enrolled in 1878 in dental school at the University of Pennsylvania. 
Bushong was one of the first to matriculate in the brand-new Department 
of Dentistry and he received his D.D.S. in 1882.[3] While attending dental 
school, he played professional baseball every year, catching in more than 
230 games as well as "barnstorming" in the off-season with a different 
team, the Hop Bitters.[2] Bushong was the first University of Pennsylvania 
graduate to play in Major League baseball. He did not play ball for the 
university, as he was already playing pro-ball.[3] Shortly after graduation 
Albert J. Bushong and Theresa M. Gottery were married and together they 
had seven children.[1] His baseball career, spanned from 1875 to 1891, 
and Bushong played on various professional minor league and major league 
teams, including the Brooklyn Atlantics (1875), Philadelphia Athletics 
(1876), Worcester Ruby Legs (1880–82), Cleveland Blues (1883–84), St. Louis 
Browns (1885–87), Brooklyn Bridegrooms (1888–90). Some believe his greatest 
success came in the latter part of his career, when Bushong played on five 
pennant winning teams and was in post-season play five times. His most 
notable performance is most likely in the 1886 St. Louis Browns of the 
American Association when they beat the Chicago White Stockings of the 
National League, for the Championship (later called World Series). For 
his part in the championship, in 1886, the Missouri Pacific Railroad, honored 
Bushong and several other players by renaming some of their whistle-stop 
towns. The town of Weeks in Kansas, became, Bushong, Kansas.[2] In 1887 
Bushong became one of the first baseball players to do paid product endorsements, 
in an advertisement for Merrell's Penetrating Oil, which was a cold medicine.[4] 
Leading up to the 1888 season, Bushong made news again, when Chris von 
der Ahe owner of the St. Louis Browns sold the contracts for Bushong, along 
with pitcher "Parisian Bob" Caruthers, and first baseman/outfielder/pitcher 
Dave Foutz. The sale was to the Brooklyn Bride Grooms and their owner, 
Charlie Byrne who paid, what was then, the enormous sum of $19,000, for 
the trio.[5] On July 4, 1889, in the second game of a doubleheader in St. 
Louis, Bushong injured his arm and played in only two more games during 
the regular season. He never fully recovered from the injury, which marked 
the beginning of the end of his baseball career. The 1890 season, was Bushong's 
last on the Bridegrooms and in major league baseball and he was officially 
released on March 26, 1891. Within a couple of weeks still wanting to play 
for the 1891 season, Bushong signed on with a minor league team and eventually 
played on two different teams through mid-July before he was released.[2] 
In a game that was traditionally played bare-handed, it is difficult to 
say who was first to make and use the padded catcher's mitt similar to 
today's glove. The first player to wear a glove was catcher Doug Allison, 
in 1870. In 1888, Joe Gunson described his catcher's mitt, and is sometimes 
associated with its invention, along with Doc Bushong and others. But his 
claim as first is brought into question by a Brooklyn Eagle article that 
describes Bushong with his special glove at least a season before Gunson's 
claim.[4] But on July 1, 1887, while at bat in the sixth inning of a game 
against Lousville, Bushong's fingers were mashed by a wild pitch from Louisville 
switch pitcher Ice Box Chamberlain[6] The injury resulted in a broken finger 
and prevented him from playing for almost ten and a half weeks.[4] But 
it is easy to believe that on September 18, 1887 when he returned, Bushong 
had seriously padded a mitt to protect his hand as well his dentistry profession. 
Further, an article in October 13, 1887, by the Brooklyn Eagle, tells of 
Bushong losing his old glove.... "he feels pretty badly over the matter.. 
it was padded and fixed up until it was as soft to his hand as a pillow 
and it was his best friend while he was up under the bat. It will take 
him some time to become accustomed to a new glove and it will be several 
seasons before he can get as many patches on the one he wears now as he 
had on the old one." The photographs taken of Bushong, used for the 1888 
season, on the Old Judge baseball cards, show him with thick gloves on 
both hands, but in 1889 Sporting Life magazine described his mitt as a 
spring mattress on his left hand..[4] In the end, most agree that Bushong 
certainly deserves credit in the evolution of the catcher's mitt and with 
his known motivation to protect his hands, many believe that he was its 
primary inventor. A minor scandal involving Bushong and the 1889 World 
Series came to light in November 1889. Following the three game to six 
series loss to the New York Giants, by the Bridegrooms, a telegram from 
Bushong to New York Giants catcher Jocko Milligan was revealed.[7] "To 
John Milligan, Catcher St. Louis Base Ball Club: Brooklyn, Oct. 19. (1889) 
Friend Jack: Hope you will answer the telegram I sent you, which was that 
I'll give $200 for your share in our agreement. It will be a personal favor 
to me if you will, and besides will be a sure thing for you and yet give 
me a chance to make a little. Don't lose your chance as you did with Tucker. 
Reply instantly at my expense. A. J. Bushong"[7] The scheme involved a 
$400 prize to the individual winners of the series.[2] The prize had been 
offered by a chewing gum firm, likely the Green and Blackwell Company of 
New York, known as G and B Chewing Gum Co., who in 1888, were first to 
issue gum with their baseball cards.[8] Bushong's idea was prize sharing, 
where, before the actual games, they were to agree, whoever was the winner 
would split the prize with the loser. In the newspapers, it was briefly 
mentioned as cheating, even though the practice was common in numerous 
sports and had been around in baseball for over a decade. Though embarrassed 
over the affair, nothing more came of it and Bushong continued playing. 
Following his baseball retirement in 1891, Bushong, now 33 years old, began 
practicing dentistry full-time along with two brothers, who were also dentists, 
at a large dental house in Hoboken, New Jersey. Eventually he became manager 
of the establishment. Also while working in Hoboken, he began and, according 
to baseball historian William Rankin, "built up a large and flourishing 
practice", at his home in south Brooklyn, 442 Ninth Street.[1][2] On November 
9, 1898 Bushong's 4-year-old son died after being severely burned in an 
election night bonfire, which were common ritual at the time.[2] Eventually 
three of his sons, as well as a nephew, also became Brooklyn dentists and 
several worked at the Bushong family business, which was in operation as 
late as 1942.[1] On August 19, 1908 Albert John Bushong died of cancer 
at his home, 442 Ninth Street, Brooklyn, at the age of 51 and was buried 
