James McCutchen James (August 27, 1874 – September 23, 1901) was a professional 
baseball player. He was a right-handed pitcher over parts of six seasons 
(1894–1899, 1901) with the Washington Senators, Baltimore Orioles and Brooklyn 
Superbas. He was the National League strikeout champion in 1897 with the 
Washington Senators. For his career, he compiled a 79–80 record in 178 
appearances, with a 3.43 ERA and 593 strikeouts. Following his breakout 
year with the Washington Senators he was sold to the Baltimore Orioles 
where he achieved stardom with a 27–15 record, pitched 40 complete games 
in 42 starts, and had an earned run average of 2.36. He was second in the 
league with 178 strikeouts, fourth in ERA and fourth in complete games. 
For many years that team would be considered one of the best ever. With 
James as star pitcher the team included such baseball legends as John McGraw, 
Willie Keeler, Hughie Jennings, Wild Bill Donovan and other stars of the 
baseball world. The following season the owners of the Baltimore Orioles 
purchased a half interest in the Brooklyn Bridegrooms (dubbed the "Superbas" 
by the media) and took their best players with them. This included James, 
Jennings, Keeler, Jim Hughes and Joe Kelley. During the final game of 1899, 
his first season with the Superbas, James came within one out of throwning 
a no-hitter in his 4–0 victory over the Boston Beaneaters (forerunner of 
the Boston Braves). The no-hitter was spoiled by future Hall-of-Famer Hugh 
Duffy with a ninth-inning single. James went by his correct name of James 
James during his first season, then changed to "Doc McJames" for the remainder 
of his career. It is speculated that he did so to hide knowledge of his 
baseball career from him parents, as playing baseball was not entirely 
reputable at the time. He had a clause in each of his major league contracts 
preventing teams from playing him on Sundays. Before playing professional 
baseball, James attended the University of South Carolina. He was the first 
Gamecocks baseball player to make it to the major leagues. In addition, 
he played guard on the school's inaugural football team in 1892. James 
was born in Williamsburg County, South Carolina. At the peak of his career 
he attended medical school at the Charleston Medical College (now Medical 
University of South Carolina) in the off-season, graduating after 3 years 
in 1900. He later left baseball to briefly practice medicine with his father 
and brother in South Carolina. While making a house call he was thrown 
from a horse-drawn carriage and within a month died from complications 
in Charleston, South Carolina at the Medical University of South Carolina. 
He was the age of 27 when he died. James was the great-grandson of Judge 
William Dobein James, who, at age 16 served in the Williamsburgh Militia 
under General Francis Marion, during the American Revolution. William James 
later wrote a Life of Marion, which is much used today as a reference because 
of its first-hand information. Doc McJames was also the great-great grandson 
of Major John James, chief officer under Francis "Swamp Fox" Marion of 
Revolutionary War fame.[citation needed] Dr.James practiced medicine in 
Cheraw, South Carolina. Cheraw was an active baseball town in this period 
and produced several other noted baseball players. Dr. James is buried 
