Dodger Stadium, occasionally called by the metonym Chavez Ravine, is a 
baseball park located in the Elysian Park neighborhood of Los Angeles, 
the home field of the Los Angeles Dodgers, the city's Major League Baseball 
(MLB) franchise. Opened 54 years ago on April 10, 1962, it was constructed 
in less than three years at a cost of $23 million, financed by private 
sources.[citation needed] Dodger Stadium is currently the oldest ballpark 
in MLB west of the Mississippi River, and third-oldest overall, after Fenway 
Park in Boston (1912) and Wrigley Field in Chicago (1914) and is the largest 
MLB stadium by seat capacity. Often referred to as a "pitcher's ballpark", 
the stadium has seen 12 no-hitters, two of which were perfect games. The 
stadium hosted the Major League Baseball All-Star Game in 1980, as well 
as games of eight World Series (1963, 1965, 1966, 1974, 1977, 1978, 1981, 
and 1988). It also hosted the semifinals and finals of the 2009 World Baseball 
Classic as well as exhibition baseball during the 1984 Summer Olympics. 
The stadium hosted a soccer tournament on August 3, 2013 featuring four 
clubs, the hometown team Los Angeles Galaxy, and European giants Real Madrid, 
Everton, and Juventus. For the first time at Dodger Stadium, the Los Angeles 
Kings and Anaheim Ducks played a regular season game on January 25, 2014 
as part of the NHL Stadium Series. In the mid-1950s, Brooklyn Dodgers team 
president Walter O'Malley had tried to build a domed stadium in the New 
York City borough of Brooklyn, but was unable to reach an agreement with 
city officials for the land acquisition, and eventually reached a deal 
with the city of Los Angeles. The land for Dodger Stadium was purchased 
from local owners and inhabitants in the early 1950s by the city of Los 
Angeles using eminent domain with funds from the Federal Housing Act of 
1949. The city had planned to develop the Elysian Park Heights public housing 
project, which included two dozen 13-story buildings and more than 160 
two-story townhouses, in addition to newly rebuilt playgrounds and schools, 
and a college. Before construction could begin on the housing project, 
the local political climate changed greatly when Norris Poulson was elected 
mayor of Los Angeles in 1953. Proposed public housing projects such as 
Elysian Park Heights lost most of their support as they became associated 
with socialist ideals. Following protracted negotiations, the city purchased 
the Chavez Ravine property back from the Federal Housing Authority at a 
drastically reduced price, with the stipulation that the land be used for 
a public purpose. It was not until June 3, 1958, when Los Angeles voters 
approved a "Taxpayers Committee for Yes on Baseball" referendum, that the 
Dodgers were able to acquire 352 acres (1.42 km2) of Chavez Ravine from 
the city. While Dodger Stadium was under construction, the Dodgers played 
in the league's largest capacity venue from 1958 through 1961 at their 
temporary home, the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, which could seat in 
excess of 90,000 people. Los Angeles-based Mike Davis, in his seminal work 
on the city, City of Quartz, describes the process of gradually convincing 
Chavez Ravine homeowners to sell. With nearly all of the original Spanish-speaking 
homeowners initially unwilling to sell, developers resorted to offering 
immediate cash payments, distributed through their Spanish-speaking agents. 
Once the first sales had been completed, remaining homeowners were offered 
increasingly lesser amounts of money, to create a community panic of not 
receiving fair compensation, or of being left as one of the few holdouts. 
Many residents continued to hold out despite the pressure being placed 
upon them by developers, resulting in the Battle of Chavez Ravine, an unsuccessful 
ten-year struggle by the residents to maintain control of their property. 
Dodger Stadium was the first Major League Baseball stadium since the initial 
construction of the original Yankee Stadium to be built using 100% private 
financing, and the last until AT&T Park in San Francisco opened in 2000. 
Ground was broken for Dodger Stadium on September 17, 1959. The top of 
local ridges were removed and the soil was used to fill in Sulfur and Cemetery 
Ravines to provide a level surface for a parking lot and the stadium. A 
local elementary school (Palo Verde) was simply buried and sits beneath 
the parking lot northwest of third base.[12] A total of 8 million cubic 
yards of earth were moved in the process of building the stadium. 21,000 
precast concrete units, some weighing as much as 32 tons, were fabricated 
onsite and lowered into place with a specially built crane to form the 
stadium's structural framework. The stadium was originally designed to 
be expandable to 85,000 seats by expanding the upper decks over the outfield 
pavilions; the Dodgers have never pursued such a project. Dodger Stadium 
was also the home of the Los Angeles Angels (now Los Angeles Angels of 
Anaheim) from 1962 through 1965. To avoid constantly referring to their 
landlords, the Angels called the park Chavez Ravine Stadium (or just "Chavez 
Ravine"), after the geographic feature in which the stadium sits. At the 
conclusion of the 2005 season, the Los Angeles Dodgers made major renovations 
during the subsequent off-season.[citation needed] The largest of these 
improvements was the replacement of nearly all the seats in the stadium. 
The seats that were removed had been in use since 1975 and helped give 
the stadium its unique "space age" feel with a color palette of bright 
yellow, orange, blue, and red. The new seats are in the original (more 
muted) 1962 color scheme consisting of yellow, light orange, turquoise, 
and sky blue. 2,000 pairs of seats were made available for purchase at 
$250, with the proceeds going to charity. The baseline seating sections 
have been converted into retro-style "box" seating, adding leg room and 
a table. Other repairs were made to the concrete structure of the stadium. 
These improvements mark the second phase of a multi-year improvement plan 
for Dodger Stadium. Between 2003 and 2005, Dodger Stadium upgraded with 
LED video displays. The large main video display measures 27 feet high 
by 47 feet wide.[13] In 2008, the Dodgers announced a $412 million project 
to build a Dodger museum, shops, and restaurants around Dodger Stadium. 
In a press release, the team described the various features of the renovation 
as follows: In the 2008–2009 offseason, the upper levels of the stadium 
were supposed to be renovated to match the repairs and improvements made 
to the field level. The improvements were to include the removal of the 
trough urinals in the men's restrooms, new concession stands and earthquake 
retrofitting to the concrete structure. It was also to include the replacement 
of the outfield scoreboards and monitors with new HD monitors. Due to the 
2009 World Baseball Classic hosted at Dodger Stadium, these renovations 
were put on hold. The divorce of Frank and Jamie McCourt, as well as a 
weak economy, were the reasons for the postponement.[15] To pay for an 
outstanding loan with the Dodgers former owner News Corporation, former 
owner Frank McCourt used Dodger Stadium as collateral to obtain a $250 
million loan.[16] In 2008, the Los Angeles City Council voted unanimously 
to give the Dodger Stadium area bounded by Academy Rd, Lookout Dr. and 
Stadium Way its own zip code, 90090 (as of July 2009). This also gives 
the area a new name, Dodgertown. The signs from the former Dodgertown spring 
training facility in Vero Beach, Florida will likely be integrated into 
the $500 million project.[17] Following the sale of the Dodgers in 2012, 
the team brought on the architect, urban planner, and stadium specialist 
Janet Marie Smith to lead renovations efforts to the 50-year-old stadium.[18][19] 
Renovations to Dodger Stadium began in the winter of 2012. Both video boards 
were replaced with High Definition screens, and new clubhouses and weight 
rooms were installed. The restrooms, concession stands, sound system and 
batting cages were also improved and renovated. Dodgers owner Guggenheim 
Partners has internally discussed moving the Dodgers to a new stadium at 
a Downtown Los Angeles site proposed by the Anschutz Entertainment Group 
to allow an NFL team to build a stadium at the Dodger Stadium site. Guggenheim 
Partners has also considered allowing an NFL team to build a stadium next 
to Dodger Stadium.[20] The extensive renovations to Dodger Stadium were 
ready for the 2013 season and included new HD hexagonal video boards, a 
new sound system, wider concourses, more standing room viewing areas, improved 
restrooms and a children's playground amongst others.[21] Between the 2013 
and 2014 seasons, more renovations were put in place. Dodger Stadium was 
the beneficiary of improvements such as wider concourses in the pavilions, 
new restaurants "Think Blue Bar-B-Que" and "Tommy Lasorda's Trattoria", 
dedicated team store buildings replacing the tents that previously served 
as team stores, bullpen overlooks with overlook bars, and tree relocation 
at the top of the stadium.[22] Dodger Stadium was one of the last baseball-only 
facilities built before the dawn of the multi-purpose stadium. It was built 
near the convergence of several freeways near downtown Los Angeles, with 
an expansive parking lot surrounding the stadium. With the construction 
of many new MLB ballparks in recent years, it is now the third-oldest park 
still in use, and the oldest on the West Coast. Dodger Stadium offered 
several innovative design features. One of these was a covered and screened 
section of dugout-level seats behind home plate. Dodger owner Walter O'Malley 
was inspired to incorporate this feature into the Dodger Stadium design 
after having seen it at Tokyo's Korakuen Stadium during the Brooklyn Dodgers' 
postseason goodwill tour of Japan in 1956. The original dugout seating 
area was replaced by more conventional box seating in a 1999 renovation, 
but this feature has been replicated at Progressive Field in Cleveland 
and Angel Stadium of Anaheim. Two of Dodger Stadium's most distinctive 
features are the wavy roof atop each outfield pavilion and the top of a 
10-story elevator shaft bearing the Dodger logo rising directly behind 
home plate at the top of the uppermost seating level. A unique terraced-earthworks 
parking lot was built behind the main stands, allowing ticketholders to 
park at roughly the level of their seats, minimizing use of ramps once 
inside. The stadium was also designed to be earthquake-resistant, an important 
consideration in California, and it has withstood several serious earthquakes. 
Dodger Stadium was originally equipped with two large Fair Play electronic 
scoreboard units above the left- and right-field pavilions. The right-field 
board displayed in-game information. The left-field board displayed scores 
of out-of-town games and other messages. Smaller auxiliary scoreboards 
were installed at field level on the box seat fences beyond the first- 
and third-base dugouts during the inaugural 1962 season. The left-field 
message board was replaced by a Mitsubishi Electric Diamond Vision video 
board in 1980. The field-level auxiliary scoreboards were replaced by larger 
units installed on the facade of the Loge (second) seating level in 1998; 
these, in turn, were replaced by a video ribbon in 2005. Field-level out-of-town 
scoreboards were installed on the left- and right-field walls in 2003. 
Strobe lights were added in 1999; they flash when the Dodgers take the 
field, after a Dodger home run, and after a Dodger win. In addition to 
those of Don Drysdale, Sandy Koufax, and Don Sutton, the retired numbers 
of Pee Wee Reese, Jackie Robinson, Duke Snider, Tommy Lasorda, Walter Alston, 
Roy Campanella and Jim Gilliam are mounted below the pavilion roofs behind 
the outfield fence. The Dodgers devote significant resources to the park's 
maintenance. For example, it is repainted every year, and a full-time crew 
of gardeners maintain the site. No plans are in the works to replace it. 
Renovations were made in 1999 and again in 2004 that initially added additional 
field level seats, particularly behind home plate where previously the 
only person seen there was scout Mike Brito, in his trademark Panama hat, 
tracking pitch speed. After some criticism of the sightlines with these 
new seats, they were replaced with box seats. Built in the Los Angeles 
community of Chavez Ravine in Solano Canyon, the stadium overlooks downtown 
Los Angeles and provides views of the city to the south, the green tree-lined 
hills of Elysian Park to the north and east, and the San Gabriel Mountains 
beyond the outfield pavilions. Due to dry summers in Southern California, 
rainouts at Dodger Stadium are rare. Prior to 1976, the Dodgers were rained 
out only once, against the St. Louis Cardinals, on April 21, 1967, ending 
a streak of 737 consecutive games without a postponement. On April 12, 
1976, the second home rainout ended a streak of 724 straight games. April 
19–21, 1988 saw three consecutive rainouts, the only time consecutive games 
have been rained out at Dodger Stadium.[23] No rainouts occurred between 
April 21, 1988 and April 11, 1999 – a major league record of 856 straight 
home games without a rainout.[23] That record has since been broken, with 
no rainouts since April 17, 2000, 1,373 consecutive games through September 
25, 2016.[24] Dodger Stadium is the only current MLB park (excluding the 
most recently built parks) that has never increased its capacity. It has 
historically held 56,000 fans, due to a conditional-use permit limiting 
its capacity. Every time the Dodgers add seats, they always remove an equal 
number of seats in the upper deck or in the pavilion to keep the capacity 
the same.[25] Through the sale of standing room only tickets, the Dodgers' 
2009 home opener drew 57,099 fans, the largest crowd in stadium history. 
Following a number of incidents in the early 1970s in which fans showered 
Cincinnati Reds left fielder Pete Rose with beer, bottles, cups, and trash, 
the sale of beer was discontinued in both pavilions. Beer sales were reinstated 
in the right field pavilion in 2008, when that section was converted into 
the All You Can Eat Pavilion. Fans seated in that section can eat unlimited 
hot dogs and peanuts and also have access to free soft drinks. There is 
a charge for beer.[26] With the retirement of the original Yankee Stadium 
and Shea Stadium in 2008, the park claimed the title of being the largest 
capacity stadium in the Majors. As of 2010, there are a total of 2,098 
club seats and 68 luxury suites. Both of these amounts will increase once 
the renovations are complete. Due to renovations made in the 2012–2013 
off season, the current maximum capacity of Dodger Stadium is less than 
56,000, although the team's president, Stan Kasten, refuses to provide 
an exact number.[27] A 53,393 attendance is considered a sellout.[28][29] 
The high water mark since the renovations is 56,800 in Games 3,4 and 5 
of the 2008 NLDS.[30] The team's 2013 media guide and website still report 
the capacity as 56,000.[7][31] The record attendance for the Dodgers was 
in the 2007 season, with 3.86 million in total attendance.[32] For various 
reasons, Dodger Stadium has long enjoyed a reputation as a pitchers' park. 
At first, the relatively deep outfield dimensions were a factor, with the 
power alleys being about 380 feet. Home plate was moved 10 feet toward 
center field in 1969, but that move also expanded foul ground by 10 feet, 
a tradeoff which helped to offset the increased likelihood of home runs 
caused by the decreased field dimensions. Also, during evening games, as 
the sun sets, the surrounding air cools quickly due to the ocean climate, 
becoming more dense. As a result, deep fly balls that might otherwise be 
home runs during the day instead often remain in play becoming outs. The 
park has been home to 12 no-hitters, while players have hit for the cycle 
just twice in Dodger Stadium. Recently, Dodger Stadium has been more neutral 
with respect to home runs.[33] The stadium does depress doubles and triples 
quite a bit, due to its uniform outfield walls and relatively small "corners" 
near the foul poles. However, the extremely short outfield walls near the 
foul poles also make some balls that would bounce off the wall in other 
parks go for home runs. With some expansion of the box seat area and the 
removal of significant foul territory, the ballpark has become more neutral, 
favoring neither pitchers nor hitters. Baseball-Reference's Park Factor 
measurement of 102 for the 2006 and 2007 seasons is evidence of this. Although 
the distance to center field has been marked at 395 feet since 1973, it 
is still actually 400 feet (120 m) to center, as has been the case since 
1969. The two 395-foot signs erected in 1973 are to the left and right 
of dead center.[25] However, curvature of the fence between the posted 
distance signs is not exactly radial from home plate, thus the distance 
from home plate directly to center field is most likely 5 feet farther 
than the posted 395 feet (120 m).[34] As of 2012, distance to center field 
is indicated 395 feet (120 m), and is located virtually exactly at the 
center field point. With the opening of Citi Field and the demolition of 
Shea Stadium in 2009, Dodger Stadium became the only stadium with symmetrical 
outfield dimensions remaining in the National League and only one of four 
total in Major League Baseball. The other three symmetrical fields are 
Kansas City's Kauffman Stadium, Toronto's Rogers Centre, and Oakland–Alameda 
County Coliseum, all in the American League. Pitchers such as Sandy Koufax, 
Don Drysdale, Don Sutton, Fernando Valenzuela, and Orel Hershiser became 
superstars after arriving in Los Angeles. The pitcher's edge is also evident 
in the fact that 12 no-hitters have been thrown in the stadium, including 
two perfect games (by the Dodgers' Sandy Koufax in 1965, and by Dennis 
Martínez of the former Montreal Expos in 1991). Bo Belinsky threw the first 
ever no-hitter in Dodger Stadium on May 5, 1962 while pitching for the 
Los Angeles Angels (that club referred to the park as "Chavez Ravine".) 
The park's significant advantage was eroded somewhat since 1969, in general 
because MLB rules were changed after the "Year of the Pitcher" to lower 
the maximum height of the pitcher's mound, and more specifically because 
the Dodgers moved the diamond about 10 feet (3 m) towards center field. 
This also gave the fielders more room to catch foul balls, so there was 
some tradeoff. Following the 2004 season, the stadium underwent a renovation 
which significantly reduced the amount of foul territory. Seats were added 
which were closer to home plate than the pitcher's mound, the dugouts were 
moved 20 feet closer to the field, and previously open space down the foul 
lines was filled with new seats. The Dodgers won the 1963 World Series 
over the New York Yankees, sweeping the Yankees by winning game 4 by a 
score of 2-1. Through the 2015 season, this remains the only time the Dodgers 
ever clinched a World Series at home. Until 1988, Dodger Stadium had never 
hosted a seventh game of a postseason series. The Dodgers won Game 7 of 
the 1988 National League Championship Series over the New York Mets, 6-0. 
(*-Perfect game) Five home runs have been hit completely out of Dodger 
Stadium. Outfielder Willie Stargell of the Pittsburgh Pirates hit two of 
those home runs. Stargell hit a 507-foot home run off the Dodgers' Alan 
Foster on August 6, 1969 that completely cleared the right field pavilion 
and struck a bus parked outside the stadium. Stargell then hit a 470-foot 
home run off Andy Messersmith on May 8, 1973 that landed on the right field 
pavilion roof and bounced into the parking lot. Dodger catcher Mike Piazza 
hit a 478-foot home run off Frank Castillo of the Colorado Rockies on September 
21, 1997 that landed on the left field pavilion roof and skipped under 
the left field video board and into the parking lot. On May 22, 1999, St. 
Louis Cardinals first baseman Mark McGwire cleared the left field pavilion 
with a 483-foot home run off the Dodgers' Jamie Arnold and most recently, 
on May 12, 2015, Giancarlo Stanton of the Miami Marlins hit a 478-foot 
home run over the left-field roof off of Mike Bolsinger.[35] Los Angeles 
Metro operates two Dodger Stadium Express routes that transports fans to 
and from the Stadium during home games. The service is operated using funding 
from the Mobile Source Air Pollution Reduction Review Committee and Metro 
ExpressLanes. Buses on the Union Station route run non-stop between Union 
Station and Dodger Stadium. Service to the stadium begins operating 90 
minutes before the start of the game, with departures every 10 minutes 
until the 3rd Inning. Buses stop at Center Field and Top Deck. Return service 
continues until 45 minutes after the final out or 20 minutes after post-game 
events, with buses departing as they fill.[40] Buses on the South Bay route 
operate between the South Bay and Dodger Stadium along the Harbor Transitway, 
making stops at Slauson, Manchester, Harbor Freeway, Rosecrans, and Harbor 
Gateway Transit Center. Service to the stadium begins operating 2 hours 
before the start of the game, with departures every 20 minutes until the 
start of the game. Buses stop at Right Field. Return service begins at 
the end of the 7th inning and continues until 45 minutes after the final 
out or 20 minutes after post-game events, with buses departing as they 
