October 2, 2016 AT&T Park, San Francisco The Dodgers–Giants rivalry is 
a rivalry between the Los Angeles Dodgers and the San Francisco Giants 
baseball teams of Major League Baseball (MLB). It is regarded as one of 
the most competitive and longest-standing rivalries in American baseball, 
with some observers considering it the greatest baseball rivalry of all 
time.[2][3] The rivalry between the Dodgers and Giants began in the late 
19th century when both clubs were based in the New York City area. The 
Dodgers played in Brooklyn (then a separate city, before being incorporated 
as a borough of Greater New York in 1898) and the Giants played at the 
Polo Grounds in Manhattan. After the 1957 season, Dodgers owner Walter 
O'Malley decided to move the team to Los Angeles for financial and other 
reasons.[4] Along the way, he managed to convince Giants owner Horace Stoneham 
(who was considering moving his team to Minnesota) to preserve the rivalry 
by bringing his team to California as well.[4] New York baseball fans were 
stunned and heartbroken by the move.[4][5] Given that the cities of Los 
Angeles and San Francisco have long been competitors in the economic, cultural, 
and political arenas, the teams' new homes in California were fertile ground 
for the rivalry's transplantation. Each team's ability to endure for over 
a century while leaping across an entire continent, as well as the rivalry's 
growth from a cross-city to a cross-state engagement, have led to the rivalry 
being considered one of the greatest in sports history.[6][7][8] While 
the Dodgers have won the National League West fourteen times compared to 
the Giants' eight since the beginning of the Divisional Era in 1969, the 
Giants have more total wins, head-to-head wins, National League pennants, 
and World Series titles in franchise history. Since moving to California, 
Los Angeles holds the edge in pennants (9–6) and World Series titles (5–3). 
Each team has advanced to the postseason as the wild card twice, the Giants 
most recently in 2016. The 2010 World Series was the Giants' first championship 
since moving to California, while the Dodgers' last title came in the 1988 
World Series. In the 1880s, New York City played host to a number of professional 
baseball clubs in the National League and the American Association. By 
1889, each league had but one representative in New York—the Giants and 
Dodgers—and the teams met in an early version of the World's Championship 
Series in which the Giants defeated the Dodgers 6 games to 3.[9] In 1890, 
the Dodgers switched to the National League and the rivalry was officially 
underway. Although the two teams were natural (geographically proximate 
and National League) rivals anyway, the animus between the two teams runs 
deeper than mere competitiveness. Giants fans were seen as well to do elitists 
of Manhattan while Dodger fans tended to be more blue collar and had more 
newly arrived immigrants as fans due to what was then the working class 
atmosphere of Brooklyn. In 1900, a year in which the Dodgers won the pennant 
and the Giants finished last,[10] Giants owner Andrew Freedman attempted 
to have the National League split all profits equally, irrespective of 
the teams’ individual success or failure. In the early 1900s, the rivalry 
was heightened by a long-standing personal feud (originally a business 
difference) between Charles Ebbets, owner of the Dodgers, and John McGraw, 
manager of the Giants. The two used their teams as fighting surrogates, 
which caused incidents between players both on and off the field, and inflamed 
local fans' passions sometimes to deadly levels. In 1940, umpire George 
Magerkurth was brutally beaten during a game by an enraged Dodger fan ostensibly 
for making a pro-Giants call, and the rivalry is said to have been the 
motive for at least one fan-on-fan homicide, in 1938, and another in 2007 
within close proximity to AT&T Park in San Francisco.[11] Future Dodger 
manager Joe Torre recalled how he felt threatened being a Giants fan growing 
up in Brooklyn in the series.[12] During the latter years for both teams 
in New York, players often engaged in purposeful, aggressive, physical 
altercations. In 1965, Giants pitcher Juan Marichal knocked Dodger catcher 
John Roseboro in the head with a bat.[10] Since 1901, the Giants and Dodgers 
have played more head-to-head games than any other two teams in Major League 
Baseball. In their 2,356 meetings (seasons 1901 through 2012),[1] the Giants 
have won 1,190 games and the Dodgers have won 1,166. The St. Louis Cardinals, 
Pittsburgh Pirates, and Cardinals rival Chicago Cubs (in games versus each 
other) are very close behind in head-to-head tallies from 1901 onwards. 
In total (1890–2011), they have played 2,346 games against each other. 
2010's results continued to reflect the closeness in the rivalry as the 
Giants won the season series 10 games to 8. If ranked by the number of 
all-time MLB wins by franchise, the Giants (10,463 wins) and Dodgers (10,157 
wins) are number 1 and 3, respectively, number 2 being the Chicago Cubs 
(10,261 wins). What is notable about the rivalry is not only the balance 
between the teams but also how both have often played meaningful games 
late in the year. Since 1951, the Giants and Dodgers have finished 1–2 
11 times, and in 3 other years were within several games of both first 
place and each other. Just as important is the role one team has played 
as spoiler to the other in the years when they were not directly competing 
in a pennant race. The New York Giants won the 68-year series against the 
Brooklyn Dodgers, 722–671. But since relocating to the West Coast in 1958, 
the Dodgers are ahead in the 945 games played between the two teams as 
of 2011[update], 487–458.[13] On July 14, 2005, the Giants became the first 
professional sports team to win 10,000 games with a 4–3 win over the Dodgers.[14] 
Two Dodgers benefited from controversial calls against the Giants to keep 
streaks alive that continue to be Major League Records. In 1968, Don Drysdale 
set the current record for consecutive complete game shutouts (6) with 
a call against Dick Dietz for not attempting to avoid a bases loaded hit 
by pitch. In 1988, Orel Hershiser established the current record for consecutive 
scoreless innings pitched (59) with the benefit of an interference call 
against Brett Butler for breaking up a double play.[15][16][17][18][19] 
When not tied for first during the last few days of the season, both teams 
have a long and storied history of eliminating their rival from playoff 
contention. All of these events and their associated quirks and symbols 
are relished by the fans of these two teams. In a unique case of the rivalry 
playing out "indirectly", some New York Mets fans in their championship 
season of 1969 who happened to have been Brooklyn fans in years past, took 
vicarious pleasure in the Mets knocking the Chicago Cubs out of the pennant 
race after the Cubs had been in first place for much of the summer.[24] 
The Cubs were managed by Leo Durocher, whose Giants had done likewise to 
the Dodgers in 1951, while the Mets were managed by old Dodgers favorite 
Gil Hodges.[24] The Dodgers won the National League pennant 12 times in 
Brooklyn, and 10 times in Los Angeles. The Giants won the National League 
pennant 17 times in New York and 6 times in San Francisco. When the teams 
were based in New York, the Giants won five world championships, whereas 
the Dodgers won one. After the move to California, the Dodgers have won 
five, the Giants three. In both New York and in California, all of one 
team's world championships preceded the other's first one in that region 
to date. The Giants' five world championships won in New York preceded 
the Dodgers' only one in Brooklyn, in 1955. The Dodgers' five world championships 
won in Los Angeles preceded the Giants' first one in San Francisco, in 
2010. All six of the Dodgers' world championships are sandwiched by the 
Giants' final world championship in New York (1954) and their first in 
San Francisco (2010). Since 2000, the Giants have advanced to the postseason 
seven times while the Dodgers have advanced eight times. In that time, 
the Giants made first-round playoff appearances in 2000, 2003 and 2016, 
won a National League pennant in 2002, and won the 2010 World Series, 2012 
World Series and the 2014 World Series. The Dodgers have made first-round 
playoff appearances in 2004, 2006, 2014, and 2015, and made NLCS appearances 
in 2008, 2009, 2013, and 2016. However, the Dodgers have failed to win 
a pennant since 1988. Ardent fans of each club would be likely to consider 
the other as their "most hated" rival,[25] enjoying the other team's misfortune 
almost as much as their own team's success. A typical Giants fan may just 
as soon ask "Did the Dodgers lose?" as they would "Did the Giants win?" 
and vice versa. This view is supported by the consistently solid attendance 
figures for Giants-versus-Dodgers games at both home fields, and increased 
media coverage as well. A good example of this is that during the final 
3 game Dodger-vs-Giants series in 1991, the Giants drew over 150,000 fans. 
The attendance for these 3 games represented almost 1⁄10 of their total 
fans (1.7 million) for the entire 81 game home schedule, and prompted at 
least one reporter on ESPN to wonder if the euphoria in the Bay Area following 
the games reflected a delusion that the Giants had won the World Series 
rather than simply knocking the Dodgers out. In 2009, Forbes rated the 
Giants-Dodgers rivalry the most intense rivalry in baseball due to its 
lasting competitiveness through the 20th century and both fanbases' willingness 
to be overcharged for Dodgers-Giants game tickets with a ticket markup 
of 44% for the 2008 season.[26] During games in Los Angeles, Dodger fans 
will chant "Giants Suck" when the Giants are in town (and used to chant 
"Barry Sucks", referring to former Giant outfielder Barry Bonds, often 
even when Bonds was not at bat or involved in a defensive play). In San 
Francisco, Giant fans will chant "Beat L.A." and "Dodgers Suck". A recent 
expression of these feelings was the 2007 All-Star Game in San Francisco, 
where the three Dodger All-Stars (catcher Russell Martin and pitchers Brad 
Penny and Takashi Saito) were roundly booed by partisan fans throughout 
the festivities.[27] During the final rounds of the 2013 World Baseball 
Classic, held at San Francisco's AT&T Park, Dodger infielder Hanley Ramírez, 
competing for his home country, the Dominican Republic, was consistently 
booed at every appearance and whenever his name was mentioned on the public-address 
system. The rivalry extends beyond the fans to the players. Jackie Robinson 
retired rather than report to the Giants after being traded to them by 
the Dodgers in December of 1956. According to legend and his teammate Tommy 
Lasorda, he did so because he had come to hate the Giants after ten years 
in Dodger Blue. This notion has been challenged on the grounds that Robinson 
would have been 38 years old when the new season began, and simply decided 
to retire. Nevertheless, in a gesture that transcends this heated rivalry, 
Robinson's retired blue Dodger numeral '42' hangs in the Giants' home ballpark, 
AT&T Park, just as it does at all other MLB ballparks in remembrance of 
Robinson's breaking the color barrier in Major League Baseball.[28] Like 
Robinson, Willie Mays refused to sign with the Dodgers after the 1972 season, 
and was traded to the New York Mets, the National League successor to both 
the Giants and Dodgers in New York. Cy Young Award winners Tim Lincecum 
of the Giants and Clayton Kershaw of the Dodgers have helped keep the rivalry 
alive in recent years, as both have been the anchors of their respective 
teams' postseason rotations since 2010. Both teams play in the National 
League Western Division, and due to the unbalanced schedule, play 19 head-to-head 
games each year. This is comparable to the 22 games each year that they 
faced each other in New York and Brooklyn. In 2014, the rivalry intensified 
when Dodgers outfielder Yasiel Puig flipped his bat when hitting a home 
run off of Giants pitcher Madison Bumgarner. Since then, the two players 
have sparked some bench clearing incidents. At Candlestick Park on August 
22, 1965, Juan Marichal was involved in a major altercation with John Roseboro.[29][30][31] 
As the 1965 season neared its climax, the Dodgers were involved in a tight 
pennant race, entering the game leading the Milwaukee Braves by half a 
game and the Giants by one and a half games.[32] The incident occurred 
in the aftermath of the Watts riots near Roseboro's Los Angeles home and 
while the Dominican Civil War raged in Marichal's home country, so emotions 
were raw.[33] Maury Wills led off the game with a bunt single off Marichal 
and, eventually scored a run when Ron Fairly hit a double.[34] Marichal, 
a fierce competitor, viewed the bunt as a cheap way to get on base and 
took umbrage with Wills.[31][33] When Wills came up to bat in the second 
inning, Marichal threw a pitch directly at Wills sending him sprawling 
to the ground.[31] Willie Mays then led off the bottom of the second inning 
for the Giants and Dodgers' pitcher Sandy Koufax threw a pitch over Mays' 
head as a token form of retaliation.[31][33] In the top of the third inning 
with two outs, Marichal threw a fastball that came close to hitting Fairly, 
prompting him to dive to the ground.[33] Marichal's act angered the Dodgers 
sitting in the dugout and home plate umpire Shag Crawford then warned both 
teams that any further retaliations would not be tolerated.[33] Marichal 
came to bat in the third inning expecting Koufax to take further retaliation 
against him but instead, he was startled when Roseboro's return throw to 
Koufax after the second pitch either brushed his ear or came close enough 
for him to feel the breeze off the ball.[32] When Marichal confronted Roseboro 
about the proximity of his throw, Roseboro came out of his crouch with 
his fists clenched.[32] Marichal afterwards stated that he thought Roseboro 
was about to attack him and raised his bat, striking Roseboro at least 
twice over the head with his bat, opening a two-inch gash that sent blood 
flowing down the catcher's face that required 14 stitches.[29][32] Koufax 
raced in from the mound to attempt to separate them and was joined by the 
umpires, players and coaches from both teams.[32] A 14-minute brawl ensued 
on the field before Koufax, Giants captain Willie Mays and other peacemakers 
restored order.[29][31] Marichal was ejected from the game and afterwards, 
National League president Warren Giles suspended him for eight games (two 
starts), fined him a then-NL record US$1,750[30][35] (equivalent to $13,163 
in 2015),[36] and also forbade him from traveling to Dodger Stadium for 
the final, crucial two-game series of the season.[32] Roseboro filed a 
$110,000 damage suit against Marichal one week after the incident but, 
eventually settled out of court for $7,500.[32] Marichal didn't face the 
Dodgers again until spring training in April 3, 1966. In his first at bat 
against Marichal since the incident, Roseboro hit a three-run home run.[37] 
Giants General Manager Chub Feeney approached Dodgers General Manager Buzzy 
Bavasi to attempt to arrange a handshake between Marichal and Roseboro 
however, Roseboro declined the offer.[37] Years later, Roseboro stated 
that he was retaliating for Marichal having thrown at Wills.[32] He explained 
that Koufax would not throw at batters for fear of hurting them due to 
the velocity of his pitches so, he decided to take matters into his own 
hands.[32][33] He further stated that his throwing close to Marichal's 
ear was, "standard operating procedure", as a form of retribution.[32] 
Dodger fans were angry at Marichal for several years after the violent 
incident with Roseboro, and reacted unfavorably when he was signed by the 
Dodgers in 1975. However, by this time Roseboro had forgiven Marichal, 
and personally appealed to the fans to calm down. After years of bitterness, 
Roseboro and Marichal became close friends in the 1980s, getting together 
occasionally at Old-Timers games, golf tournaments and charity events.[38] 
Roseboro also personally appealed to the Baseball Writers' Association 
of America not to hold the incident against Marichal after it passed him 
over for election to the Hall of Fame two years in a row. Marichal did 
get elected in 1983, and thanked Roseboro in his induction speech.[39] 
When Roseboro died in 2002, Marichal served as an honorary pallbearer and 
told the gathered, "Johnny's forgiving me was one of the best things that 
happened in my life. I wish I could have had John Roseboro as my catcher."[40] 
Actor and performance artist Roger Guenver Smith performed his one-man 
show on the incident, "Juan and John", at the Public Theater in Manhattan 
in December 2009. Roseboro's daughter, Morgan Fouch Roseboro, attended 
the debut. In the 1981 season as a member of the Dodgers, Reggie Smith 
was taunted by Giants fan Michael Dooley, who then threw a batting helmet 
at him. Smith then jumped into the stands at Candlestick Park and started 
punching him. He was ejected from the game, and Dooley was arrested. Five 
months later, Smith joined the Giants as a free agent. Giants fan Marc 
Antenorcruz was shot and killed by Dodgers fan Pete Marron on September 
19, 2003, in the parking lot of Dodger Stadium, following a late-season 
Dodgers-Giants game.[41] Marron was convicted of first degree murder and 
sentenced to 50 years in prison. A second defendant, Manuel Hernandez, 
pleaded no contest to voluntary manslaughter and had his 15-year sentence 
suspended.[41] There has also been Opening Day violence between the two 
teams' fans at Dodger Stadium.[42] In 2009, Arthur Alverez, a reputed gang 
member, went to the Dodgers’ home opener with a couple and another man. 
After the game, Alverez and the other man, a Dodger fan, began quarreling 
in the stadium parking lot. Alvarez stabbed the 30-year-old victim several 
times in the arm, back, and torso. He was arrested in May for suspicion 
of attempted murder, held on bail for $55,000, and was expected to be tried 
on May 4, 2009.[43] The trial by jury, held in August of that year, accepted 
Alvarez's plea of self-defense and acquitted him on the charge of attempted 
murder.[44] On March 31, 2011, a 42-year-old Giants fan, Bryan Stow of 
Santa Cruz, California, was critically injured when he was attacked by 
two Dodgers fans in the Dodger Stadium parking lot after the Dodgers and 
Giants opened the 2011 season. The suspects subsequently fled the scene 
in a vehicle driven by a woman.[42] Stow, a paramedic and father of two, 
sustained severe injuries to his skull and brain and was placed into a 
medically induced coma after the incident.[45] An early suspect, a 31-year-old 
man was arrested in his East Hollywood home by SWAT officers in May 2011 
in connection with the crime.[46][47] The man was never formally charged 
and was declared innocent in July 2011 when Louie Sanchez and Marvin Norwood, 
of Rialto, were arrested and charged in the crime.[48] Lawyers for Stow 
say his medical care is expected to cost more than $50 million.[49] On 
May 24, 2011, Stow's family filed a lawsuit against the Los Angeles Dodgers 
for $37.5 million for his lifetime care and compensation of lost earnings.[50][51] 
On September 27, 2011, relatives reported that Stow showed signs of improvement 
and even went outside for the first time in six months. Stow began an intensive 
therapy program in the Rehabilitation Trauma Center at Santa Clara Valley 
Medical Center on October 11, 2011.[52] Doctors have told his family that 
he will never fully recover.[53] On December 19, 2011, NBC aired the interview 
with Bryan Stow on the program Rock Center with Brian Williams.[54] On 
October 25, 2012, he attended Game 2 of the 2012 World Series at AT&T Park 
against the Detroit Tigers.[55] In April 2013, Stow's insurance company 
stopped paying for his full-time care in a residential rehabilitation facility 
and he moved into his parents' home in Capitola, California.[53] Stow returned 
home on June 13, 2013 for the first time in two years since the attack.[56] 
On February 20, 2014, Sanchez and Norwood pleaded guilty. Under the plea 
bargain, Sanchez was sentenced to eight years in prison for felony mayhem 
and Norwood received four years for felony assault.[57] On July 9, 2014, 
a jury found the Dodgers organization negligent in Stow's beating. The 
jury awarded $18 million in damages to Stow; the Dodgers are responsible 
for one quarter of this total. The remaining amount is to be split between 
Sanchez and Norwood.[58] On September 25, 2013 at 11:30 pm, a Dodger fan 
was stabbed to death in front of his father and brother six blocks from 
AT&T Park, at Third and Harrison streets.[59] The San Francisco medical 
examiner's office identified the deceased man as Jonathan Denver, 24, of 
Fort Bragg, California. Two people were arrested in connection with Denver's 
death after the Giants' 6–4 win over Los Angeles, according to San Francisco 
Police Chief Greg Suhr. Suhr told the San Francisco Chronicle earlier that 
the victim of the attack was a Dodgers fan and was wearing Dodgers gear.[60][not 
in citation given] Michael Montgomery, 21, of Lodi was arrested on suspicion 
of murder.[61] Montgomery was later released, prosecutors citing insufficient 
evidence to charge him.[62] His father claimed the stabbing was done in 
self-defense.[63] According to the official Dodgers Twitter account, Jonathan 
Denver was the son of a Dodger Stadium security guard.[64] On March 12, 
2014, San Francisco District Attorney George Gascón said that his office 
could not prove that Michael Montgomery did not act in self-defense when 
he stabbed Denver. According to Gascón, both Denver and his brother collectively 
weighed about 150 pounds more than Montgomery. According to witnesses, 
Montgomery had a bottle in his hand for self-defense while Denver was punching 
him. After Denver's brother grabbed an aluminum chair and hit Montgomery 
on the head with it, Montgomery dropped the bottle, took out a knife, and 
stabbed Denver. San Francisco prosecutors ultimately declined to file charges 
