September 14, 2016 Dodger Stadium The Dodgers–Yankees rivalry is a Major 
League Baseball (MLB) rivalry between the Los Angeles Dodgers and the New 
York Yankees. The Dodgers are a member club of the National League (NL) 
West division, and the Yankees are a member club of the American League 
(AL) East division. The rivalry between the Dodgers and Yankees is one 
of the most well-known rivalries in Major League Baseball.[1] The two teams 
have met 11 times in the World Series, more times than any other pair of 
teams from the American and National Leagues.[1] The initial significance 
was embodied in the two teams' proximity in New York City, when the Dodgers 
initially played in Brooklyn. After the Dodgers moved to Los Angeles in 
1958, the rivalry retained its significance as the two teams represented 
the dominant cities on each coast of the United States, and since the 1980s, 
the two largest cities in the United States. Although the rivalry's significance 
arose from the two teams' numerous World Series meetings,[1] the Yankees 
and Dodgers have not met in the World Series since 1981.[1] They would 
not play each other in a non-exhibition game until 2004, when they played 
a 3-game interleague series.[2] Nevertheless, games between the two teams 
have become quite popular and draw sellout crowds.[3] At the dawn of the 
20th century, the American League was in its infancy, and one of its charter 
franchises (which would eventually become the Yankees) was the original 
Baltimore Orioles. The league, however, recognized that it required a presence 
in New York City, the country's largest market, in order to survive. Hence, 
it moved the Orioles to New York, which was already the home of two National 
League franchises, the Brooklyn Dodgers and New York Giants. The new team 
was eventually called the New York Highlanders due to their home field 
being Hilltop Park from 1903–1912. After the Highlanders allowed the Giants 
to play at Hilltop Park when the latter's home stadium, the Polo Grounds, 
was undergoing reconstruction from a fire, the Giants invited the Highlanders 
to share the Polo Grounds with them. Since the Highlanders were no longer 
playing at higher elevations, they changed their name to the New York Yankees. 
The Dodgers also opened up their new field, Ebbets Field, in Brooklyn. 
Their opening game at the stadium was an exhibition game against the Highlanders 
on April 5, 1913 where future Yankee manager Casey Stengel had the game-winning 
hit for the Dodgers. The Highlanders would officially be called the Yankees 
later that year. In 1920, the Giants notified the Yankees that they would 
have to find a new stadium of their own for the 1921 season.[4] The Giants 
rescinded that eviction notice and allowed the Yankees to stay until the 
end of the 1922 season, when the Giants renovated the Polo Grounds and 
increased seating capacity from 38,000 to 50,000.[4] Before that however, 
the 1921 World Series between the Giants and Yankees became the first Subway 
Series, as match-ups between the Dodgers and the Giants were not referred 
to as Subway Series. After losing to the Giants in that World Series and 
again the following year, the Yankees moved across the Harlem River to 
the original Yankee Stadium in the Bronx, where they captured their first 
ever World Series from the Giants in 1923. The rivalry between the Yankees 
and Brooklyn Dodgers began when the teams first met in the 1941 World Series. 
In Game 4, with the Yankees leading the series two games to one, the Dodgers 
led by one going to the top of the ninth inning and, with two outs, just 
barely missed getting the third out and wound up losing the game. With 
two outs, the Yankees' Tommy Henrich swung and missed with two strikes, 
but reached on a passed ball, as Dodger catcher Mickey Owen failed to hold 
on to the pitch. Henrich reached first base on the play. Owen recalled 
the incident: It was a great breaking curve that I should have had, but 
I guess the ball hit the side of my glove. It got away from me, and by 
the time I got hold of it, near the corner of the Brooklyn dugout, I couldn't 
have thrown anybody out at first.[5] Joe DiMaggio followed Henrich's at 
bat with a single before Charlie Keller hit a double to drive in both Henrich 
and DiMaggio and give the Yankees a 5-4 lead. After Bill Dickey walked, 
he and Keller scored on a Joe Gordon double to make the final score 7-4. 
The next day, the Yankees clinched the first series match-up between the 
two teams in the start of what would become a long-lasting rivalry. Six 
years later, the 1947 World Series had a dramatic moment in Game 6. The 
Dodgers' Al Gionfriddo was placed in left field for defensive purposes 
and robbed Joe DiMaggio of a game-tying three-run home run. DiMaggio was 
visibly disgusted by the outcome of the play when rounding the bases in 
one of the few emotional displays of his career. The Dodgers won the game 
and forced a do-or-die Game 7, only to fall. Dazzling defensive plays would 
be seen again, this time by the Yankees in the 1952 contest, as Billy Martin 
came outside the camera coverage area to catch a pop-fly after Brooklyn 
had threatened to take the lead in Game 7. Martin would go on to be the 
hero once more in the 1953 series with a series record 12 hits, including 
the winning hit of the series-clinching game off of Clem Labine. Brooklyn 
signed Jackie Robinson to not only break the color line, but to bolster 
the lineup. Robinson, along with outfielder Duke Snider and pitcher Don 
Newcombe, sparked Brooklyn to four National League pennants between 1947 
and 1953. Each and every time during this period, however, the World Series 
ended in heartbreak for the Dodgers and gave the Dodger fans their rallying 
cry: "Wait 'til next year!"[6] During the 1953 World Series, long time 
Dodgers announcer Red Barber refused to man the broadcast booth due to 
a compensation dispute with Gillette. Barber jumped ship to the Yankees 
and joined Mel Allen to call the games for the Yankees. Struggling to find 
a replacement, the Dodgers gave the call to a 25-year-old named Vin Scully, 
the youngest man to ever call a World Series game for a major network. 
Scully would go on to continue as a Dodgers broadcaster for another 6 decades. 
Finally, in 1955 the Dodgers reversed matters, prevailing over the Yankees 
in seven games to win their only World Series in Brooklyn.[7] Thus came 
the slogan, This IS next year. Brooklyn fell short of repeating the next 
season, falling in seven games to the Yankees. That year's team suffered 
some ignominy in being on the losing end of Don Larsen's perfect game in 
Game 5, which was the first of only two no-hitters ever pitched in postseason 
play and the only in the history of the World Series. In both the 1955 
and 1956 World Series, the home team won the first six games of the World 
Series, but lost Game 7. It would not be until 1987 when the home team 
won all seven games of a World Series.[8] However, the Yankees would meet 
the unfortunate fate of being the first American League team to lose a 
World Series in which the home team won all seven games, in 2001.[8][9] 
The 1956 World Series would be the last Subway Series of the 1900s and 
the last to include one of the National League's charter franchises. After 
the Dodgers' move to Los Angeles for the 1958 season, it would take them 
two dominating pitchers (Sandy Koufax and Don Drysdale), a speedy shortstop 
(Maury Wills) and a great outfielder (Tommy Davis) to spark them to a pennant 
in 1963. They swept the aging Yankees (consisting of Mickey Mantle, Roger 
Maris, and Whitey Ford) in four straight games to win their second World 
Series since moving to Los Angeles, having won in 1959, with the Bronx 
Bombers not taking a single lead against the powerful Los Angeles pitching 
staff and being limited to just four runs in the entire series,[10] the 
very first meeting between teams from New York City and Los Angeles for 
a major professional sports championship.[10][11] Dodgers broadcaster Vin 
Scully said that although the Dodgers won four World Series titles in 10 
years, he said that this championship was the biggest of those four because 
"the ultimate was not only beating the Yankees but sweeping them in four", 
but said that "to New York fans it was still the old Brooklyn Dodgers and 
there was a lot of bitterness toward them."[12] After 14 years, sophomore 
manager Tommy Lasorda led a young Dodgers team to the 1977 World Series 
where they faced Billy Martin and the Yankees. The two managers were involved 
in a fist fight during the 1956 season while playing for the two teams 
they were now managing.[13] The Yankees were coming off a controversy ridden 
season. Furious at their loss to The Big Red Machine in the 1976 World 
Series, owner George Steinbrenner had signed slugger Reggie Jackson to 
the team. Jackson immediately created friction in the clubhouse between 
himself and Bill Martin as well as captain Thurman Munson, the defending 
AL MVP. New York City itself was going through a financial crisis under 
Mayor Abraham Beame and experienced the Son of Sam and a major blackout, 
all chronicled in The Bronx is Burning. Despite the controversy, the Yankees 
managed to play together and win the pennant to face the Dodgers in the 
World Series. The Dodgers featured an infield of Steve Garvey at first, 
Davey Lopes at second, Ron Cey at third, and Bill Russell at shortstop, 
in addition to slugger Reggie Smith, and pitching duo (Don Sutton and Tommy 
John). In addition to Jackson and Munson, the Yankees had Bucky Dent and 
Graig Nettles, Cy Young Award-winning closer Sparky Lyle, young pitcher 
Ron Guidry, and speedsters Willie Randolph and Mickey Rivers. The Dodgers 
appeared primed to win the Series, but Reggie Jackson put on his "Mr. October" 
show as he hit three home runs in Game 6 off of 3 pitches to lead the Yanks 
to their first World Series championship since 1962. The next season, the 
Yankees won their division in thrilling fashion, thanks in large part to 
a timely home run from Bucky Dent in a one-game playoff against the Boston 
Red Sox. They went to the World Series for the third straight year where 
they faced the Dodgers for the second straight year. The Dodgers won the 
first two games of the Series thanks to rookie pitcher Bob Welch, but New 
York won the next four to take the 75th Fall Classic. In 1981, the fortunes 
turned in LA's favor, as rookie pitcher Fernando Valenzuela won National 
League Rookie of the Year and Cy Young Award honors. But the Yankees had 
American League Rookie of the Year Dave Righetti (who was traded from the 
Rangers in exchange for Lyle) and daunting 1-2 relief punch of set-up man 
Ron Davis and closer Rich Gossage. The Yankees won the first two contests, 
but LA, led by Valenzuela and first baseman Steve Garvey, won the next 
four to claim their first World Series title since 1965 in a strike-shortened 
season.[10][14] Fallout from the series would eventually have Reggie Jackson 
be controversially dismissed a bit later and owner George Steinbrenner 
to start a public feud with Dave Winfield, who had a dismal performance 
in the series.[15] After the series ended, Steinbrenner issued a public 
apology to the City of New York for his team's performance, while at the 
same time assuring the fans that plans to put the team together for 1982 
would begin immediately.[16][17] The Yankee owner was criticized heartily 
by players and press alike for doing so, as most people felt losing in 
the World Series was not something that needed to be apologized for.[7] 
Lasorda said of the revenge for what Jackson did to the Dodgers in 1977 
and 1978: "We were suffering and the guy was making a fool out of us. I 
was hoping and praying we would get another shot at him."[12] This led 
to the Yankees not winning a World Series in the 1980s, the only decade 
they would not have won a championship since moving to the Bronx.[15][18][19] 
In contrast, the Dodgers were able to defeat the Oakland Athletics in the 
1988 World Series (their only World Series appearance since).[20][21] It 
would be their last post-season meeting to date, the last time ever the 
Dodgers visited the old Yankee Stadium, and the last meeting between teams 
from New York City and Los Angeles for a major professional sports championship 
until the Rangers and the Kings squared off in the 2014 Stanley Cup Finals.[10][12] 
Although the Yankees and the Dodgers haven't met in the playoffs since 
the 1981 World Series, interleague matchups between the two teams, whether 
in New York or Los Angeles, have become quite popular. Tickets in both 
cities have become exclusive shortly after going on sale and games between 
the two teams have drawn sell out crowds, as evidenced during the doubleheader 
at the new Yankee Stadium in June 2013, the first time the Dodgers visited 
the Bronx since interleague play was introduced and the first time they 
visited the new Yankee Stadium.[3] After 23 years of not facing the Yankees, 
LA hosted an interleague weekend series in June 2004 where they took two 
out of three contests. One ending had closer Éric Gagné strike out Bernie 
Williams for the final out. The third and final game was the ESPN Sunday 
Night game that weekend. The rivalry was renewed when Joe Torre, who led 
the Yankees to four World Series championships, accepted a three-year, 
$13 million contract to manage the Dodgers on November 1, 2007.[22] He 
also brought along former Yankee first baseman Don Mattingly and Larry 
Bowa to his coaching staff. Coaches Rick Honeycutt and Mariano Duncan each 
played for both teams. Torre and left fielder Manny Ramirez, who had been 
a part of the fierce Yankees–Red Sox rivalry before being traded to the 
Dodgers mid-season, led the Dodgers to the 2008 West Division Pennant. 
The Yankees failed to make the 2008 Postseason, ending their 13-year consecutive 
postseason appearance streak with 12 of which were under Torre's. In 2009, 
Torre co-authored a book, The Yankee Years, about his time in New York 
that criticized principal owner George Steinbrenner and third baseman Alex 
Rodriguez.[1] The book cited that the term "A-Fraud" was used as a name 
for Alex Rodriguez's common nickname "A-Rod." The book specifically stated 
on p 245: Back in 2004, at first Rodriguez did his best to try to fit into 
the Yankee culture – his cloying, B-grade actor best. He slathered on the 
polish. People in the clubhouse, including teammates and support personnel, 
were calling him ‘A-Fraud’ behind his back. Torre would later explain the 
comments as being jestful and in good humor by Torre and Larry Bowa with 
Rodriguez.[23] Both teams made it to the playoffs that year, but the Dodgers 
lost in the NLCS for the second straight year to the defending champion 
Philadelphia Phillies, whom the Dodgers beat in the NLCS in 1977 and 1978 
before losing to the Yankees in the World Series in both years, who would 
lose to the Yankees in the World Series, giving New York their first championship 
since Torre left as manager. The Yankees and Dodgers met again at Dodger 
Stadium for an interleague series from June 25–27, 2010.[1] Joe Torre and 
Don Mattingly played against the Yankees, who won the series two games 
to one, for the first time since joining the Dodgers and Torre's first 
meeting with Rodriguez since the writing of Torre's book.[24][25] Mattingly 
succeeded Torre as manager of the Dodgers after the 2010 season.[26][27] 
The Dodgers never played a regular season series at the original Yankee 
Stadium. The teams finally met up during the 2013 season.[28] The double 
header of June 19 was not just the Dodgers return to the Bronx after a 
long absence as it was also Mattingly's first return to the Bronx since 
he became Dodger manager (excluding Mattingly's visit to new Yankee Stadium 
on the night they honored George Steinbrenner with a monument in Monument 
Park).[29] Former Dodger pitcher Hiroki Kuroda won the first game for the 
Yankees while the Dodgers rebounded in the night cap behind the pitching 
of Chris Capuano. The two then split a 2-game series at Dodger stadium. 
Their most recent meeting occurred from September 12-14, 2016 at Yankee 
Stadium, where the Dodgers took two out of three games from the Yankees. 
