The Dominican Republic national baseball team is the national baseball 
team of the Dominican Republic. The Dominican Republic was invited to play 
at the inaugural World Baseball Classic in 2006. Placed in Pool D for the 
opening round, the Dominican Republic swept through the group, defeating 
Venezuela, Italy, and Australia at Cracker Jack Stadium in Lake Buena Vista, 
United States. After falling to Puerto Rico in the first game of the 2nd 
round in Puerto Rico, the Dominicans recovered to qualify for the semifinals 
by virtue of winning their last two games. They would fall in the semifinals, 
however, to Cuba. The Dominicans were placed in Pool D of the 2009 World 
Baseball Classic, playing their opening round games at Hiram Bithorn Stadium 
in San Juan, Puerto Rico. Considered one of the pre-tournament favorites 
with multiple Major League Baseball All-Stars, they were upset in their 
opening game of the modified double-elimination pool by the Netherlands.[1] 
After eliminating Panama, they faced the Dutch again for the right to advance 
but were stunned in 11 innings[2] and eliminated from the competition. 
Drawn into Pool C with Puerto Rico, Spain, and Venezuela at Hiram Bithorn 
Stadium in San Juan, Puerto Rico once again, the Dominicans opened the 
round-robin round 1 with a decisive 9–3 victory over 2009 semifinalists 
Venezuela. A victory over Spain and a Puerto Rico win over Venezuela ensured 
advancement to the second round; the Dominicans clinched the top seed by 
defeating the hosts. In the second round, the Dominicans rallied past upstart 
Italy despite an early 4–0 deficit at Marlins Park in Miami, United States. 
Two ninth-inning runs pushed the Dominicans past the host Americans and 
into the semifinals. Another victory over Puerto Rico ensured the Dominicans 
of the top seed and a chance to avoid two-time defending champions Japan 
national baseball team. Instead, they would face the surprising semifinalists 
Netherlands. After an early 1–0 deficit, four 5th-inning runs pushed the 
Dominican Republic into the final, where a 3–0 victory gave them their 
first-ever World Baseball Classic title. New York Yankees second baseman 
Robinson Canó was named MVP of the tournament. The Dominican Republic team 
participated in the 1992 Games, the first medal competition for the sport, 
and finished 6th. The team failed to qualify for another competition before 
