(1,873,097[1][2] 0.6% of the U.S. population (2015)[3] Dominican Americans 
(Spanish: domínico-americanos,[4] norteamericanos de origen dominicano 
or estadounidenses de origen dominicano) are Americans who have full or 
partial origin from the Dominican Republic.[5] Although their emigration 
began in the sixteenth century,[6] thousands of Dominicans passed through 
the gates of Ellis Island in the 19th and early 20th centuries.[7] The 
most recent movement of emigration to the United States began in the 1960s, 
after the fall of the Trujillo regime. In 2010, there were approximately 
1.41 million people of Dominican descent in the US, including both native 
and foreign-born.[8] Dominican Americans are the fifth-largest Hispanic 
group in the United States. Since the establishment of the Spanish Empire, 
there have historically been immigrants from the former Captaincy General 
of Santo Domingo to other parts of New Spain which are now part of the 
United States, such as Florida, Louisiana, and the Southwest. The first 
recorded person of Dominican descent to migrate into what is now known 
as the United States, outside of New Spain, was sailor-turned-merchant 
Juan Rodriguez. He arrived on Manhattan in 1613 from his home in Santo 
Domingo, which makes him the first non-Native American person to spend 
substantial time in the island. He also became the first Dominican, the 
first Latino and the first person with European (specifically Portuguese) 
and African ancestry to settle in what is present day New York City.[9] 
Dominican emigration to the United States continued throughout the centuries. 
Recent research from the CUNY Dominican Studies Institute has identified 
some 5,000 Dominican immigrants who were processed through Ellis Island 
between 1892 and 1924.[7] From the 1960s onward, after the fall of the 
dictatorship of General Rafael Trujillo, larger waves of emigrants have 
thoroughly transnationalized the Dominican Republic, metaphorically blurring 
its frontier with the United States. With increased emigration, Dominican 
diaspora communities have sprouted in New York metro area, New Jersey, 
Boston metro area, Providence, South Florida, and Philadelphia/Eastern 
Pennsylvania.[10] Smaller waves of emigrants have settled in the metropolitan 
areas of Orlando, Tampa, Washington, DC, Atlanta, Baltimore, Columbus, 
Rochester, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Detroit, Charlotte, Raleigh, 
and New Orleans. Dominican emigrant communities have similar settlement 
patterns to that of the Puerto Rican population.[10] Almost half of all 
the Dominican Americans today arrived since the 1990s, especially in the 
early part of that decade. There has been another surge of immigration 
in recent years as immigration from Mexico has declined, which allowed 
more backlogged Dominican applicants to obtain legal residence. Dominican 
Americans are the fifth-largest Hispanic or Latino American group, after 
Mexican Americans, Stateside Puerto Ricans, Cuban Americans, and Salvadoran 
Americans.[11] As of 2010, the five largest concentrations of Dominican 
Americans are in New York (674,787; 47.7%), New Jersey (197,922; 14.0%), 
Florida (172,451), Massachusetts (103,292), and Pennsylvania (62,348). 
Rhode Island is the only state where Dominicans are the largest Hispanic 
group.[12][13] Dominicans are the most dominant Hispanic group in most 
of southeastern New England (Rhode Island and eastern Massachusetts). Dominicans 
are also starting to be pretty dominant in many areas in North Jersey and 
the Lower Hudson Valley. In New York City, the borough of Manhattan (New 
York County) is the only county in the country where Dominicans are the 
largest ancestral group and its Washington Heights neighborhood has long 
been considered the center of the Dominican American community.[13] The 
2010 Census estimated the nationwide Dominican American population at 1,414,703.[12] 
About 41% of Dominican Americans live in New York City alone. Many of New 
York's Dominicans live in the boroughs of the Bronx and Manhattan, and 
a few live in Queens and Brooklyn. There are also large populations in 
other parts of New York State, including Long Island and the Hudson Valley. 
Across the Hudson River, in New Jersey, a rapidly growing population of 
up to 250,000 Dominicans reside, topped by Paterson in absolute number 
and with Perth Amboy having the highest proportion in the U.S.[14] Other 
states with large Dominican populations include Massachusetts, with very 
large populations throughout the eastern part of the state including the 
Boston area, the Miami, Orlando and Tampa metro areas in Florida; the state 
of Rhode Island, and to a lesser extent Connecticut, in the metro areas 
of Waterbury, Danbury and Bridgeport, and in Pennsylvania, particularly 
the eastern portion including Hazleton, Allentown, Reading, and the Philadelphia 
area. There are smaller and growing Dominican populations in states like 
Maryland, Georgia, North Carolina, Virginia, Ohio, Texas, and California. 
According to recent 2014 estimates, Boston and New York City are the only 
major cities where Dominicans are now the largest Hispanic group, recently 
surpassing Puerto Ricans in both cities, due to slower growth (or decline) 
of the Puerto Rican populations in those cities and much faster growing 
Dominican populations.[1][15] However, in both cities, Dominicans make 
up only a plurality of the Hispanic population.[16] Since 1980, the Census 
Bureau has asked US residents to classify their race separately from their 
Hispanic or Latino origin, if any. In 2010, 29.6% of Dominican Americans 
responded that they were white, while 12.9% considered themselves black. 
A majority of 57.5% chose the category 'Other race'.[12] The prevalence 
of the 'other race' category probably reflects the large number of people 
who identify as mixed African and European ancestry in the Dominican Republic, 
where 68% of the population identified as being of mixed African and European 
descent, commonly known as mulatto.[17][18][19] Genetically, some are tri-racial, 
however, having also Taíno Native American ancestry. As of the 2010 census, 
the top 10 US states with the largest Dominican populations are the following:[24] 
The largest populations of Dominicans are in the following metropolitan 
areas, according to the 2010 census:[24] As of the 2010 census, the top 
25 US communities with the largest Dominican populations are the following:[24] 
As of the 2010 census, the top 10 US communities with the highest percentages 
of people claiming Dominican ancestry are the following:[10][24][26] A 
significant number of Dominican Americans are young, first-generation immigrants 
without a higher education, since many have roots in the country's rural 
areas. Second-generation Dominican Americans are more educated than their 
first-generation counterparts, a condition reflected in their higher incomes 
and employment in professional or skilled occupations[27] and more of them 
pursuing undergraduate education and graduate degrees. Over 21% of all 
second-generation Dominican Americans have college degrees, slightly below 
the average for all Americans (24%) but significantly higher than US-born 
Mexican Americans (14%) and US-born Puerto Rican Americans (9%).[27] In 
New York City, Dominican entrepreneurs have carved out roles in several 
industries, especially the bodega and supermarket and taxi and black car 
industries.[28] Over two dozen Dominican Americans are elected local or 
state legislators, mayors or other in New York, New Jersey, Rhode Island, 
Maryland, Massachusetts, and Pennsylvania.[29] Dr. Eduardo J. Sanchez was 
the Commissioner of Health for the state of Texas from 2001 to 2006,[30] 
and New York Secretary of State Lorraine Cortés-Vázquez, of Puerto Rican 
and Dominican descent, has held her post since 2007.[31] The electoral 
participation of Dominicans in the United States may improve as a result 
of the 1994 approval of dual citizenship by the Dominican legislature, 
which makes it easier for migrants to become US citizens without relinquishing 
their Dominican nationality. A 1997 Dominican law, which took effect in 
2004, allows Dominicans living abroad to retain their Dominican citizenship 
and voting rights even if they become citizens of another country.[citation 
needed] Traditionally, Dominicans living in the United States are passionately 
involved in politics "back home", but unlike other Hispanic or Latino national 
groups, such as Cuban Americans and Mexican Americans, they are not as 
inclined to take an active part in US politics, but there are more recent 
increases in involvement in US politics.[32] Junot Diaz drew on his life 
and the Dominican American experience generally in authoring Drown and 
The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao, the latter of which won him the Pulitzer 
Prize for Fiction in 2008 and made him the first Dominican American and 
the second Hispanic or Latino American in history to win the Pulitzer Prize.[33][34] 
Julia Alvarez is the nationally recognized author of In the Time of the 
Butterflies and How the García Girls Lost Their Accents. Nelly Rosario, 
born in the Dominican Republic and raised in New York City, also won critical 
acclaim for her debut novel Song of the Water Saints.[35] Dominican Americans 
have increasingly made a presence in the financial industry. Cid Wilson 
was ranked #1 Wall Street financial analyst in the Specialty Retailing 
category by Forbes in 2006.[36][37] Traditional Dominican cuisine has translated 
well to the United States as Dominican Americans have opened reputable 
restaurants throughout the diasporic communities. Traditional cuisine is 
very colorful with red and green peppers and cilantro. Traditional cuisine 
consists of rice, beans, tostones (known as fritos), and a meat like chicharrón 
de pollo (deep-fried chicken), Mangú (mashed green plantains served with 
sautéed onion), slices of avocado, fried eggs, salami, empanadas and pastelitos 
(fried meat pies), and sancocho (stew of meats, potatoes, and vegetables).[38] 
The most well known drink is "Morir Soñando" which translates to "die dreaming." 
It is a drink of orange juice, cream, and vanilla. Desserts include flan, 
bread pudding, rice pudding, and tres leches. Dominican restaurant owners 
in the diasporic community really aim to conserve the taste of the mainland 
as they feel that is what immigrants seek out when looking for authentic 
Dominican cuisine.[39] Achieving that taste is not hard in the United States 
as most grocery stores stock Dominican, Puerto Rican, and other Latin American 
products made by Goya Foods. Dominican Americans take pride in their food 
from their homeland and they use it as a symbol in times of celebration. 
For example, when the Dominican Republic won the World Cup of Baseball, 
Dominican Americans cheered carrying plantains.[39] The experience of Dominican-American 
cuisine goes beyond the consumption of the food, however. It is vitally 
integrated into the everyday culture of the Dominican-American community. 
Through the sensations of eating, to the act of cooking, Dominican-American 
food is part of the Dominican-American experience.[40] Dominican food is 
an integral part of the formation and maintenance of the Dominican diaspora. 
According to Liberato and Feagin's section in the Other African Americans 
eating traditional Dominican food ties second generation Dominican Americans 
to the diasporic homeland.[41] Dominican food and other cultural practices 
like speaking Spanish help newly immigrated Dominicans situate themselves 
in the racial hierarchy of the United States. The US Census data from 2000 
showed that Dominicans "have the largest concentration of people below 
the poverty line."[42] When racial categories that apply on the island 
are no longer pertinent in the US and Dominican immigrants use features 
of Dominican culture- like cooking traditional fare- to differentiate themselves 
from Native Black Americans to help themselves establish a unique identity.[43] 
Designer Oscar de la Renta, born in the Dominican Republic to a Dominican 
mother and a Puerto Rican father, is one of the most recognized names in 
the fashion industry. María Montez was dubbed "The Queen of Technicolor" 
for the numerous Hollywood adventure films that she starred in the 1940s. 
Zoe Saldana, the female leading star of the movie Avatar, is an actress 
born in New Jersey to a Dominican father and a Puerto Rican mother. Michelle 
Rodriguez, born of a Dominican mother and a Puerto Rican father, is known 
for her roles in the television series Lost and the movies The Fast and 
the Furious, S.W.A.T., and Resident Evil. Dania Ramirez is known for playing 
Callisto in X-Men: The Last Stand, Sadie in Quarantine, Alex in Entourage, 
and Maya Herrera in Heroes. Merlin Santana was a New Yorker whose most 
notable role was as Romeo on The Steve Harvey Show. Carlos De La Mota, 
born in New York to Dominican parents and raised in La Vega, and José Guillermo 
Cortines are popular telenovela actors who often work stateside. Claudette 
Lali is a former model turned actress also born in New York and raised 
in the Dominican Republic. Charytín is an actress, singer, dancer, and 
television host who has been a longtime fixture in the US Hispanic/Latino 
media. Tina Aumont, Miguel A. Nuñez, Karen Olivo (a Tony Award-winner), 
Victor Rasuk, Judy Reyes, Shalim Ortiz (son of Charytín) and Tristan Wilds 
also have Dominican origin. Also increasing is the Dominican American profile 
in government and politics. Milestones along the way have been marked, 
among others, by Guillermo Linares and Kay Palacios, the first Dominican 
Americans elected in the United States, as former New York City Council 
Member and former Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey city council respectively; 
William Lantigua, the first Dominican American mayor in the U.S., who was 
appointed as Acting Mayor of Lawrence, Massachusetts; Passaic, New Jersey 
mayor Dr. Alex D. Blanco, the first Dominican American mayor ever elected 
in the United States;[44][45] The first Dominican American New York County 
Supreme Court Judge was Rolando T. Acosta; Camelia Valdes, the first Dominican 
American to become a head Prosecutor or District Attorney in U.S. history;[46][47] 
Adriano Espaillat and Grace Diaz, respectively the first Dominican American 
person and the first Dominican American female to be elected to a state 
legislature in the United States; Juan Pichardo, Rhode Island State Senator, 
the first Dominican American to be elected State Senator in the United 
States.[48] President Barack Obama made his first major Dominican American 
appointment on March 13, 2009 when he nominated Thomas E. Perez to be Assistant 
Attorney General for Civil Rights.[49] Perez was confirmed by the U.S. 
Senate on October 6, 2009. Angel Taveras, mayor of Providence, Rhode Island, 
is the first Hispanic mayor of the city, the third elected, and the fourth 
serving Dominican American mayor in the United States.[50] Juan Manuel 
Taveras Rodríguez was a Professor Emeritus at Harvard Medical School and 
Radiologist-in-Chief Emeritus of the Massachusetts General Hospital. He 
is widely regarded as the father of the medical specialty of neuroradiology, 
having co-authored the first textbook of this specialty and founded both 
the American Society of Neuroradiology and its journal, of which he served 
for several years as editor. Dominican music includes above all merengue 
and bachata. Bachata, as well as reggaeton, have become popular among many 
Dominican American youth, as have house, salsa, rock, hip hop and other 
musical genres. Some notables in the music industry include: bachata singers 
Prince Royce and Leslie Grace, Fuego Merengue singer, Ralph Mercado, founder 
of RMM Records and music producer; Johnny Pacheco, singer, godfather of 
New York salsa; Karina Pasian, singer and pianist; Proyecto Uno, merengue 
hip-hop group; Anthony Romeo Santos, singer and songwriter; Rosanna Tavarez, 
Rita Indiana, singer and songwriter, singer and television host.[51] Dominican 
Americans have made great strides in the field of baseball, the community's 
favored sport. Alex Rodriguez, New York-born, is the most well-known Dominican 
American in this field. He is the highest-paid player in Major League Baseball 
(MLB), and one of the most famous athletes in the United States. The larger 
portion of MLB players of Dominican origin immigrated from the Dominican 
Republic, number in the hundreds, and count among them Robinson Canó, Rafael 
Soriano, David Ortiz, Albert Pujols, Manny Ramírez, Bartolo Colón, and 
Hall of Fame members Juan Marichal and Pedro Martínez. Some of them, including 
Pujols (2007), Canó (2012), and Colón (2014),[52] have obtained US citizenship. 
Dominican natives Felipe Alou and Tony Peña were managers, and Omar Minaya 
is a general manager in (MLB). Basketball has seen the likes of Felipe 
López, Francisco Garcia, and the father-son pair of Tito and Al Horford, 
all originally from the Dominican Republic, as well as Charlie Villanueva 
and 2015 NBA draft top pick Karl-Anthony Towns from the New York area. 
In the National Football League (NFL) there are Luis Castillo, Tutan Reyes 
and Dante Rosario. Among other notables of full or partial Dominican origins 
are Nancy Alvarez, sexologist and talk show host in Spanish-language media; 
Susie Castillo, Miss USA 2003; Mary Joe Fernández, a tennis player and 
television commentator; Geovanny Vicente Romero, a community leader and 
educator in Washington, D.C.;[53] [54] Providencia Paredes, an assistant 
and confidante to Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis; Ilka Tanya Payan, an AIDS/HIV 
activist, actress, and attorney; and Wolf Hudson, a pornographic film actor. 
