The Dominican Republic Professional Baseball League (Spanish: Liga de Béisbol 
Profesional de la República Dominicana) or LIDOM by its acronym in Spanish, 
is a winter professional baseball league consisting of six teams spread 
across the Dominican Republic; it is the highest level of professional 
baseball league in the Dominican Republic. The league's players include 
many prospects that go on to play in Major League Baseball in the United 
States while also signing many current MLB veterans. The champion of LIDOM 
advances to play in the yearly Caribbean Series. Each team plays a fifty-game 
round-robin schedule that begins at the middle of October and runs to the 
end of December. The top four teams engage in another round-robin schedule 
with 18 games per team from the end of December to the end of January; 
the top two teams in those standings then play a best-of-nine series for 
the national title. The league's champion advances to the Caribbean Series 
to play against the representatives from Mexico, Venezuela, Cuba and Puerto 
Rico.[1] The current champion of LIDOM are the Leones del Escogido, who 
won the National Championship nine-game Series (5-1) sweeping Theirs opponents 
Tigres del Licey For his close involvement in the Dominican league's establishment 
and early development, Pedro Miguel Caratini (born ca. 1880) has been called 
"the father of Dominican baseball".[2] During the years 1930-1963, military 
dictator General Rafael Trujillo can be credited with furthering the sport 
of baseball in Dominican Republic. Trujillo encouraged many sugar refineries 
to create teams of cane cutting laborers to play baseball during the idle 
months of cultivation. Fostering high levels of competition, the organization 
structure continued to mature stimulating growth in the intensity and popularity 
of the game.[3] In 1937, teams of the Dominican Republic signed a large 
amount of players from the Negro League of the United States. These players 
were given large salaries by Dominican men with money and political power. 
Among these players were baseball stars James Thomas "Cool Papa" Bell and 
Satchel Paige. However, these contracts exhausted team finances leading 
to a decline of Dominican baseball until 1950.[3] In the early 1900s, four 
Dominican teams formed. These teams still exist today, and form the foundation 
of Dominican professional baseball: Considered by both North American and 
Latin American players to be "the gringo's game" in the early 20th century, 
the sport of baseball was adopted by the Dominican Republic. These players 
avoided the ethnocentrism and exclusion of the major leagues of the United 
States, and developed their own teams.[4] This brief era of Dominican baseball 
history (1950-1954) is known as "beisbol romantic" or the Era of Romantic 
Baseball.[3] During the Romantic era, national play was revived and free 
of the influence of individuals outside of the country. Fandom of these 
teams skyrocketed and the sport of baseball became the national pastime 
of the Dominican Republic. From a cultural standpoint, baseball in the 
Dominican Republic was, despite its American origins, a local phenomenon.[3] 
As a cultural icon of the Dominican Republic, baseball holds a strong presence 
in the country. Surrounded by impoverished neighborhoods, these baseball 
stadiums of the larger Dominican cities are routinely maintained. Owners 
of big businesses like sugar refineries funded the construction of these 
fields, and benefit from the games. Games in these stadiums attract major 
crowds and a sense of community can be observed.[5] Like their American 
counterparts, these "latinized" games exude free-spiritedness, social cohesion, 
and festivity from the fans and players alike.[6] In the Dominican Republic, 
baseball players are regaled as sports heroes and function as role models 
to their fan base. This idolization is covered by the media more so than 
in the United States.[3] The Dominican Republic is a third world country 
plagued with poverty. In a 2010 CIA estimate, it was shown that 34.4 percent 
of Dominicans live below the poverty line. In addition, the CIA estimated 
in 2012 that unemployment of the Dominican Republic was 14.7 percent.[7] 
Due to the Dominican Republic's weak economy, Dominican men have very few 
options for employment. It is this absence of options, the storied history 
of the sport, and the great success of those who make it to the major leagues 
that make it easy for Dominican youth to view the game as economic salvation.[4] 
Baseball provides children living in the impoverished Dominican streets 
hope of a future where they can provide for themselves and their families. 
Because of this, children begin playing organized baseball as early as 
six years old,[6] and compete with others in leagues with the hopes of 
being recognized by baseball scouts. The roster of the Dominican team at 
the 2013 World Baseball Classic featured 20 MLB players; the combined salaries 
of these athletes amount to $104,590,000,[7] an amount that could sustain 
many individuals in Dominican communities. Some argue that the perception 
of baseball as economic salvation is in reality detrimental to the youth 
of the Dominican Republic. For each time a Dominican succeeds, it intensifies 
the efforts of thousands of other Dominicans, motivating them to give up 
on education, concentrate solely on training for baseball, and ultimately 
fail at being signed overseas.[6] After Fidel Castro's revolution in Cuba 
and the subsequent U.S. blockade, scouts of the majors turned their sights 
towards the Dominican Republic.[3] Posed with the opportunity to acquire 
quality talent at a reasonable price, major league teams established "working 
relationships" with Dominican professional teams.[4] Since the 1950s, all 
30 MLB franchises have established baseball training academies in the Dominican 
Republic [7] that are tasked by their respective teams to condition and 
prepare young Dominican prospects for a chance at further developing in 
the United States. Having produced many successful athletes from these 
academies, these academies undercut the reliance of U.S. teams on Dominican 
baseball organizations. This shift in relations where players can forego 
playing for professional Dominican teams have resulted in the underdevelopment 
of Dominican baseball, where Dominican teams cannot offer competitive deals 
to these young athletes so the quality of Dominican baseball leagues diminish.[4] 
As the United States has made its cultural presence in the Dominican Republic, 
Dominicans have fostered cultural resistance towards the hegemonic process. 
For Third World cultures, an antidote for this oppression is nationalism, 
which promotes culture and curbs overvaluation of the foreign nation that 
is influencing the subordinate culture. For the Dominicans, baseball plays 
this crucial role of resistance. This nationalism is indoctrinated in the 
print media of the country. Sports pages take the voice of the pro-Dominican/anti-American 
nationalist by focusing on the successes of the Dominican player, not the 
MLB team that they play for.[4] Dominican players engulfed in the MLB system 
have also been observed to demonstrate cultural resistance in other ways. 
"Foot dragging" by Dominican athletes playing underneath American managers 
have occurred where the players throw games in order to defame their manager. 
Other occasions of players resisting American hegemony include the refusal 
to respond to interviews in English while in the Dominican Republic.[4] 
Many Dominican players return during the winter to play winter baseball 
as a way of showing gratitude to their fans. These fans, hailing from the 
same villages and towns as these professional athletes, cheer for these 
hometown heroes no matter what team they play for. This fan base is perceived 
by these returning athletes as a more appreciative audience than they experience 
in the United States.[3][6] *Two Dominican teams participated in the Serie 
