Donald Howard "Don" Sutton (born April 2, 1945) is an American former professional 
baseball player. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) as a right-handed 
pitcher. He played for 23 seasons with the Los Angeles Dodgers, Houston 
Astros, Milwaukee Brewers, Oakland Athletics, and California Angels.[1] 
He won a total of 324 games, 58 of them shutouts and five of them one-hitters, 
and he is seventh on baseball's all-time strikeout list with 3,574. Sutton 
was born in Clio, Alabama. He attended high school and community college 
in Florida before entering professional baseball. After a year in the minor 
leagues, Sutton joined the Dodgers. Beginning in 1966, he was in the team's 
starting pitching rotation with Sandy Koufax, Don Drysdale and Claude Osteen. 
Sixteen of Sutton's 23 MLB seasons were spent with the Dodgers. He registered 
only one 20 win season, but he earned double-digit wins in almost all of 
his seasons. Sutton entered broadcasting after his retirement as a player. 
He has worked in this capacity for several teams, the majority being with 
the Atlanta Braves. He was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1998.[2] 
Sutton was born in Clio, Alabama, a small town in Barbour County, and on 
the same date as future Dodger teammate Reggie Smith. He was born to sharecroppers 
at the end of World War II, in a tar-paper shack.[3] At the time Sutton 
was born his father was 18 and his mother was 15.[4] Sutton's father, Howard, 
gave him the strong work ethic that he had throughout his career.[3] His 
father tried logging and construction work, and in looking for work, moved 
the family to Molino, Florida, just north of Pensacola.[4][5] Sutton attended 
J. M. Tate High School where he played baseball, basketball, and football.[6] 
He led his baseball team to the small-school state finals two years in 
row, winning his junior year, 1962, and losing 2–1 in his senior year, 
and was named all-county, all-conference, and all-state for both of those 
seasons.[7][8][9] He graduated in 1963 and was voted "Most Likely to Succeed".[10] 
He wanted to attend the University of Florida, but coach Dave Fuller was 
not interested.[8] He attended Gulf Coast Community College, Panama City 
for one year, and then after a good summer league, was signed by the Dodgers.[8] 
After playing for the Sioux Falls Packers, Sutton entered the major leagues 
at the age of 21. Sutton's major league debut came with the Dodgers on 
April 14, 1966, the same day that future 300-game winner Greg Maddux was 
born.[11] On the 1966 Dodgers, Sutton was the fourth starting pitcher in 
a rotation that included Sandy Koufax, Don Drysdale and Claude Osteen.[12] 
He struck out 209 batters that season, which was the highest strikeout 
total for a rookie since 1911.[2] Sutton was selected to the Major League 
Baseball All-Star Game four times in the 1970s.[13] The 1974 Dodgers made 
the postseason after winning 102 games during the regular season. They 
beat the Pittsburgh Pirates in the playoffs and Sutton accounted for two 
of the team's three wins.[14] They lost the 1974 World Series four games 
to one, with Sutton earning the only win for the team.[15] In 1976, Sutton 
had his best major league season, finishing the year with a 21-10 win-loss 
record.[16] He earned a complete game win in the 1977 playoffs, followed 
by a 1-0 record in two appearances in that year's World Series, which the 
team lost to the Yankees.[1] In August 1978, Sutton captured media attention 
after a physical altercation with teammate Steve Garvey. Sutton had criticized 
what he thought was excessive media attention paid to Garvey, saying that 
Reggie Smith was really the team's best player. When Garvey confronted 
Sutton about the comments before a game against the Mets, the men came 
to blows and had to be separated by teammates and team officials.[17] The 
team returned to the postseason that year. Sutton had a 15-11 record during 
the regular season, but he struggled in the postseason as the Dodgers lost 
the World Series to New York again. In 17 postseason innings that year, 
Sutton gave up 14 earned runs.[1] Los Angeles made Sutton a free agent 
after the 1980 season. During his time in Los Angeles, he set a team record 
for career wins.[16] Sutton joined the Houston Astros in 1981. After the 
baseball strike interrupted the season, Sutton returned with seven wins 
and one loss. In an October 2 loss to the Dodgers, Sutton left the game 
with a patellar fracture, ending his season just as the Astros were about 
to clinch a berth in the NL postseason.[18] Late in the 1982 season, the 
Astros sent Sutton to the Milwaukee Brewers for Kevin Bass, Frank DiPino 
and Mike Madden.[19] Astros player Ray Knight was critical of the trade, 
saying, "My first reaction to this trade is disbelief. I don't know who 
are the prospects we are getting, but I would think Don Sutton would bring 
a big name, a real big name. Here's a guy who is going to win you 15-20 
games every year, and he never misses a start... He should really help 
the Brewers."[20] Sutton earned a win in a 1982 playoff game against the 
Angels, then started two games in the 1982 World Series against the St. 
Louis Cardinals. He pitched 10 innings in the series, gave up nine earned 
runs and was charged with one loss.[1] In 1985, Sutton was traded to the 
Oakland Athletics in exchange for Ray Burris. He was initially reluctant 
to report to the team, as he was hoping to play for a team in Southern 
California so that he could live at home with his family. Sutton ultimately 
reported to Oakland twelve days late for spring training. He said that 
he had his family's approval in the decision and he mentioned his win total 
– he was 20 wins shy of 300 career wins – as a factor in the decision.[21] 
After starting the season with a 13-8 record, Sutton was traded to the 
California Angels in September. In return, the Angels would send two minor 
league players to be named later to Oakland.[16] Coming into the 1986 season, 
Sutton had 295 career victories. He struggled early in the season, but 
he won his 300th career game in June of that year. He earned that win by 
pitching a complete game against the Texas Rangers, striking out Gary Ward 
for the final out of the game.[22] He appeared in two games in the 1986 
playoffs against the Red Sox, earning a 1.86 ERA but registering two no-decisions.[1] 
Sutton signed with the Dodgers again in 1988. Before the season began, 
Angels pitcher John Candelaria criticized him for tipping off police that 
Candelaria was drinking the previous year, leading to one of Candelaria's 
two 1987 drunk driving arrests. Sutton said that he made the report out 
of concern for Candelaria's safety; Candelaria said that Sutton was practicing 
"self-preservation" and attempting to have Candelaria removed from the 
Angels' starting rotation since Sutton was not pitching well.[23] In August 
1988, Sutton spoke with Astros team leadership about a vacant assistant 
general manager position with the team. Dodgers executive vice president 
Fred Claire said that Sutton violated league rules by discussing such a 
position while under contract with a team, but Sutton said that he ran 
into Astros general manager Bill Wood at a game and simply mentioned his 
willingness to discuss the position later.[24] The team released him on 
August 10. Claire said that Sutton's stamina was a major consideration 
in the move, as the team was looking for pitchers who could last more than 
five or six innings per start.[25] Sutton has the record for most at-bats 
without a home run (1,354). Sutton holds another record: seven times in 
his career, he pitched nine scoreless innings but got a no-decision. He 
also holds the major league record for most consecutive losses to one team, 
having lost 13 straight games to the Chicago Cubs.[26] Sutton started his 
broadcasting career in 1989, splitting duties between Dodgers cable telecasts 
on Z Channel and Atlanta Braves telecasts on TBS.[27] The following year 
he became a full-time commentator for the Braves. In 2002, Sutton was diagnosed 
with kidney cancer resulting in the removal of his left kidney.[28] Part 
of a lung was removed the following year. While undergoing cancer treatment, 
he continued his broadcasting career.[29] He left TBS after the 2006 season, 
mainly because the network would broadcast fewer games in 2007 and had 
to cut back on the number of broadcasters. Sutton was a color commentator 
for the Washington Nationals on the MASN network until January 27, 2009.[30] 
Sutton still had two years remaining on his contract with the Nationals, 
but when an Atlanta Braves radio job opened up, he negotiated his release 
in order to return to Atlanta where he had many ties.[31] His current broadcast 
partner is Jim Powell, who joined the Braves Radio Network in 2009. Sutton 
is an avid golfer and wine enthusiast and frequently makes references to 
these hobbies while broadcasting. Sutton has also broadcast golf and served 
as a pre- and post-game analyst for NBC's coverage of the 1983 and 1987 
American League Championship Series. Sutton previously served as a color 
commentator for NBC's coverage of the 1979 National League Championship 
Series. His son, Daron, is a former broadcaster for the Arizona Diamondbacks.[32] 
In 1997, Sutton appeared on the National Baseball Hall of Fame ballot for 
the fourth time. Sutton had previously expressed his desire to be elected 
to the Hall of Fame. However, when he fell nine votes short of election 
that year, he said that the vote was not that important. When he received 
the results of the vote, his two-month-old daughter Jacqueline was in an 
Atlanta neonatal intensive care unit after she was born 16 weeks early.[33] 
His daughter later recovered.[34] On the 1998 ballot, Sutton became the 
only player selected for induction, receiving votes on 81.6% of ballots.[34] 
The Dodgers retired his number that year.[35] Sutton was inducted into 
the Braves Hall of Fame in July 2015 for his work as a broadcaster.[36] 
He became the fourth Braves broadcaster to be honored in this fashion, 
joining his mentors Ernie Johnson, Skip Caray, and Pete van Wieren.[37] 
Sutton appeared as a celebrity panelist on several occasions on Match Game 
