Donald Anton Denkinger (/ˈdɛŋkᵻndʒər/; born August 28, 1936) is a former 
Major League Baseball umpire who worked in the American League from 1969 
to 1998.[1] Denkinger wore uniform number 11, when the AL adopted uniform 
numbers in 1980. He is best remembered for an incorrect call he made at 
first base in Game 6 of the 1985 World Series.[2] Denkinger attended Wartburg 
College where he was on the wrestling team. He became interested in umpiring 
while serving in the Army from 1957 to 1959. He began umpiring in the minor 
leagues in 1960, joined the AL staff in April, 1969, and became an AL crew 
chief in 1977. In 1975, Denkinger was one of the first American League 
umpires to switch from the outside chest protector to the inside chest 
protector, which was used in the National League for decades before finally 
being adopted in the AL in the late 1970s. All umpires who entered the 
AL starting in 1977 had to use the inside protector; AL umpires on staff 
prior to 1977 were grandfathered and could continue to use the outside 
protector. Denkinger's last game using the outside protector was Game 4 
of the 1974 World Series. He umpired in four World Series: 1974, 1980, 
1985 and 1991, serving as crew chief the latter two years. Denkinger also 
umpired in the All-Star Game in 1971, 1976 and 1987, calling balls and 
strikes for the last game. He officiated in six American League Championship 
Series (1972, 1975, 1979, 1982, 1988, 1992), serving as crew chief in 1975, 
1988 and 1992, and in the 1981 and 1995 AL Division Series. He was the 
home plate umpire for the one-game playoff that decided the AL's Eastern 
Division champion in 1978; the New York Yankees defeated the Boston Red 
Sox. He is one of seven umpires who have worked in two perfect games; he 
was the second-base umpire for Len Barker's perfect game on May 15, 1981, 
and the first-base umpire for Kenny Rogers' perfect game on July 28, 1994. 
He was also the home plate umpire for Nolan Ryan's sixth no-hitter on June 
11, 1990. Despite his long and illustrious career, Denkinger is probably 
best remembered by baseball fans for a blown call he made at first base 
in Game 6 of the 1985 World Series, played on October 26. The St. Louis 
Cardinals led the Kansas City Royals by 3 games to 2. The Cardinals had 
taken a 1–0 lead in the 8th inning on a single by little-used backup catcher 
Brian Harper after pitchers Danny Cox (of the Cardinals) and Charlie Leibrandt 
(of the Royals) had battled back and forth all game long. Todd Worrell 
came into the game for the Cardinals in the 9th inning, first facing Jorge 
Orta, the leadoff batter for the Royals. Orta hit a slow roller to first 
baseman Jack Clark, who tossed to Worrell covering first base. Denkinger 
was the umpire at first base and called Orta safe, even though television 
replays and photographs clearly showed that he was out by half a step. 
The Cardinals argued briefly,[3] but Denkinger refused to reverse it. The 
Royals went on to win Game 6 by the score of 2–1. Orta, leading off, swings 
and hits it to the right side, and the pitcher has to cover he is...SAFE! 
SAFE! SAFE! And we'll have an argument! Sparky, I think he was out! Little 
squibber to the right side, Worrell races over to cover the throw... doesn't 
get him! Worrell back to the bag and an argument here and here comes Herzog 
amongst the other quartet. Looks like he's out! Oh, I don't think there 
is any doubt about it. He had the base and he had the ball, man, what else 
is there? That's the rule isn't it? Denkinger stated that he still believed 
he had made the right call until he later met with Commissioner Peter Ueberroth 
after the game and had the opportunity to see the replay himself. He would 
later claim that he was waiting to hear the ball land in Worrell's glove 
while watching the bag for Orta's foot. Due to the crowd noise in Royals 
Stadium, he ruled Orta safe because he never heard Worrell catch the ball.[4] 
Immediately after the call, the Cardinals still had a one-run lead with 
a runner on first and no outs. The next batter, Steve Balboni, popped up 
into foul territory, but first baseman Jack Clark and catcher Darrell Porter 
both failed to make the catch. Balboni then singled an 0–2 pitch into left 
field. The next batter, Jim Sundberg, attempted a sacrifice bunt, but Worrell 
threw to third base to force out Orta, the runner Denkinger called safe, 
and this was the only out recorded by the Cardinals in the inning. Two 
pitches later, Porter had a passed ball that allowed the runners to move 
up a base. After Hal McRae was walked, Dane Iorg singled, scoring two runs 
for the Royals' win. As crew chief of the 1985 World Series umpiring unit, 
Denkinger was scheduled to work behind home plate in Game 7, a fact that 
further upset the Cardinals and manager Whitey Herzog. Some observers suggested 
that the presence of Denkinger behind the plate affected the Cardinals' 
gameplay, as ace pitcher John Tudor got off to a terrible start, giving 
up five earned runs and four walks in only 2 1⁄3 innings. Tudor was so 
disgusted by his performance, that he subsequently punched an electrical 
fan with his pitching hand. Todd Worrell (while being interviewed on ESPN 
Classic's The Top 5 Reasons You Can't Blame... about Don Denkinger's involvement 
in the 1985 World Series) would later compare the idea of Don Denkinger 
working behind home plate to putting a stick of dynamite back there and 
lighting it. The Cardinals made their frustrations clear throughout the 
game. ABC television cameras caught Herzog screaming and belittling Denkinger 
from the Cardinals' dugout throughout the contest. Pitcher Joaquín Andújar 
exploded twice over Denkinger's calls at the plate during the 5th inning, 
finally being ejected with Herzog after a heated argument over Denkinger's 
strike zone. Herzog even went so far as to directly tell Denkinger that 
had he gotten "the call" right in Game 6, the Cardinals would not have 
been subjected to a seventh game in the first place. (Denkinger then replied 
that if the Cardinals were batting better than .120 in the Series, there 
would have been no need for a Game 7 either.) In the immediate aftermath 
of his meltdown, Andújar smashed a toilet in the Cardinals' clubhouse. 
The Cardinals were completely demolished by the Royals as Kansas City would 
go on to win Game 7 in an 11–0 blowout, taking home their first World Series 
Trophy. In the immediate aftermath of the 1985 World Series debacle, Denkinger 
received many hateful letters (including death threats) from Cardinals 
fans.[5] Two St. Louis disc jockeys went so far as to reveal Denkinger's 
telephone number and home address.[5] Denkinger claimed that the letters 
continued on through 1987 (before Denkinger got into contact with Major 
League Baseball Security, who in turn contacted the FBI),[5] when the Cardinals 
were ramping up for another World Series appearance (this time against 
the Minnesota Twins). The breaking point for Denkinger was when he received 
a particularly menacing letter (with no return address) in which the writer 
tells that if he sees Denkinger in person, he would "blow him away" with 
a .357 Magnum.[5] Ironically, the strongest part of his career likely followed 
the 1985 events; two years later, he was behind the plate for the All-Star 
Game, and he was again named crew chief for the 1988 ALCS, 1991 World Series, 
and 1992 ALCS. He is one of only four umpires to have been selected as 
crew chief for the ALCS three times.[citation needed] More than 20 years 
after the fateful events in Kansas City in October 1985, Denkinger has 
regularly appeared at sports memorabilia shows (including ones in St. Louis) 
willing to autograph photos depicting "The Call." Denkinger even owns a 
painting featuring himself, Todd Worrell, and Jorge Orta involved in the 
play, claiming that he keeps it to remind himself that no one is perfect 
and everyone makes mistakes. In September 2005, he was a guest speaker 
at a 20th anniversary dinner celebrating the Cardinals' 1985 team, benefiting 
