Donald Albert Hoak (February 5, 1928 – October 9, 1969) was a Major League 
Baseball player. Nicknamed "Tiger", Hoak was a third baseman who played 
eleven seasons in the majors with the Brooklyn Dodgers (1954–55), Chicago 
Cubs (1956), Cincinnati Reds (1957–58), Pittsburgh Pirates (1959–62) and 
Philadelphia Phillies (1963–64). He played 1263 games and compiled a .265 
batting average with 89 home runs and 498 runs batted in. As a youngster 
Hoak was a professional boxer, but pursued a baseball career after losing 
seven straight knockouts. He broke into the Major Leagues in 1954 after 
a stint in the United States Marines, as well as having played one season 
in Cuba.[1] Legend has it that during his one season in Cuba, Hoak actually 
batted against Fidel Castro, who was a law student at the time. According 
to The Second Fireside Book of Baseball, Castro and some friends commandeered 
the park where Hoak's team was playing. Castro took some warmup pitches, 
then turned to face Hoak and called out the Spanish equivalent of "Batter 
up!" and pitched. He was wild, and threw several pitches near Hoak's head. 
After a few "dusters", Hoak turned to the umpire and said, "Get that idiot 
out of the game!" The umpire obliged, and spoke to some park policemen, 
who marched Castro off the field. During his two seasons with the Dodgers, 
Hoak shared third base duties with Jackie Robinson and Billy Cox. In 1955, 
the Dodgers defeated the New York Yankees in the World Series to win their 
only championship in Brooklyn. Hoak played third base in place of Robinson 
in the seventh and deciding game of that Series—the only World Series game 
Robinson did not play in during his career when his team was in the World 
Series. After the season, Hoak was traded to the Chicago Cubs. In 1956, 
Hoak batted .215 with 5 home runs and 37 RBIs. He also set a National League 
record by striking out six times in one game, a 17-inning marathon on May 
2, won by the visiting New York Giants. After the 1956 season the Cubs 
traded Hoak to the Cincinnati Redlegs in a five-player deal. In 1957 Hoak 
improved his batting average to .293, after leading the league well into 
May at over .400, and set career highs in home runs (19) and RBIs (89), 
as well as leading the National League in doubles with 39. In a game against 
the Milwaukee Braves on April 21, Hoak was involved in a controversial 
play that would lead to a change in the rules. He was on second base and 
teammate Gus Bell was on first, when Wally Post hit a ground ball to short. 
Hoak broke up a potential double play by fielding the ball himself and 
flipping it to Milwaukee shortstop Johnny Logan. Hoak was called out for 
interference, but Post was given a single on the play.[2] The day before, 
Johnny Temple let Bell's ground ball hit him with the same result, Temple 
being called out for interference and Bell being awarded a single. The 
two incidents prompted league presidents Warren Giles and Will Harridge 
to jointly announce a rule change that declared both the runner and batter 
out if the runner intentionally interferes with a batted ball, with no 
runners allowed to advance. (Without the new rule, it was sometimes advantageous 
for a runner to touch a batted ball, because doing so avoided a double 
play. In the plays already mentioned, Temple and Hoak were out according 
to a still-existing rule: a runner is out if a batted ball touches him 
in fair territory before it touches a fielder, with the batter getting 
a single and no runner advancing unless forced.) 1957 also marked Hoak's 
only All-Star appearance, but it also would be mired in controversy—though 
not of Hoak's doing. At the time (as they do now) fans had the right to 
vote for the starters (minus the starting pitchers). As a result, a ballot 
stuffing campaign by Reds fans resulted in Hoak, Post, Temple, Bell, Ed 
Bailey, Roy McMillan, and Frank Robinson being voted into the starting 
lineup. First baseman George Crowe, then 36 and the eventual team home 
run leader with 31, was the only Red not selected; the fans instead voted 
for Stan Musial. (Crowe would be selected to the All-Star team in 1958—the 
only Red so honored.) Commissioner Ford Frick removed Bell and Post from 
the starting lineup and replaced them with Willie Mays and Hank Aaron; 
Bell remained on the team as a reserve, but Post was taken off altogether. 
Frick also stripped the fans of the right to vote for the starters, which 
they’d held since 1947 and wouldn't hold again until 1970 (ironically, 
the Reds’ newly opened Riverfront Stadium would host the All-Star Game 
that year). In the third inning of that game, Hoak grounded out to shortstop 
Harvey Kuenn in his only plate appearance. He was subsequently replaced 
by Eddie Mathews. Hoak batted .261 for the Reds during the 1958 season 
before being traded, along with Harvey Haddix and Smoky Burgess, to the 
Pittsburgh Pirates for four players (one of whom was Frank Thomas) in January 
1959.[3] It was Hoak's throwing error that cost Haddix his perfect game 
against the Braves after retiring 36 batters in a row on May 26, 1959. 
The Braves went on to win that game, 1-0. In 1960, Hoak batted .282 on 
a Pirates team that won the World Series; like the 1955 Brooklyn Dodgers, 
Pittsburgh defeated the Yankees in seven games, and the Pirates won the 
1960 Series on Bill Mazeroski's ninth-inning home run in Game Seven. During 
the Pirates’ championship season, Hoak finished second in National League 
MVP honors to teammate Dick Groat. Hoak batted a career-high .298 during 
the 1961 season, but slumped to .241 in 1962. After the 1962 season, the 
Pirates traded him to the Philadelphia Phillies for Pancho Herrera and 
Ted Savage.[4] He batted .231 during the 1963 season, then was released 
in May 1964 after making only six plate appearances—all in pinch-hitting 
roles. He retired forthwith, but returned to the Phillies as a scout for 
the final month of the season—during which the Phillies lost the pennant 
to the St. Louis Cardinals by one game after leading the National League 
by 6 1/2 games with two weeks remaining. Don Hoak also played in the Dominican 
Republic during the 1956 season with the Escogido team. His game always 
rapid and daring and full of risks. In those days the radio announcer called 
him "el loquito Hoak" (crazy Hoak) for his risky plays which contributed 
to his team winning several games and the season. In a final series a game 
was won when he stole home after making the pitcher nervous several times 
moving between third and home. Hoak was married to singer/actress Jill 
Corey, whom he first met at Forbes Field during the Pirates' 1960 season. 
Hoak pursued Corey for a year afterward, even convincing her to break up 
with her boyfriend, a Brazilian diplomat. The two wed on December 27, 1961; 
the marriage bore a daughter, Clare. After retiring from playing, Hoak 
worked as a Pirates' broadcaster in 1965 and 1966, a coach for the Phillies 
in 1967, and a manager in the Pirates' farm system from 1968 until 1969. 
In 1968, he managed the Salem Redbirds of the Carolina League to an 85-55 
record.[5] Hoak then moved up to the Pirates' Triple A club, the Columbus 
Jets of the International League, whom he managed to a 74-66 record in 
1969.[6] After the 1969 season, the Pirates' managerial post was vacant, 
Larry Shepard having been fired with one week remaining, and Alex Grammas 
serving as interim manager for the final five games. With two successful 
minor league seasons under his belt, Hoak believed himself a contender 
to manage the parent club—if not the new Pirates' manager. Instead, the 
team announced on October 9 that Danny Murtaugh, who managed the Pirates' 
1960 World Championship team, was to return for what would be his third 
of four stints with the club. (Murtaugh had resigned after the 1967 season 
for medical reasons, and accepted a position in the Pirates' front office. 
He asked to reclaim the managerial position after the 1969 season, and 
was re-hired after receiving medical clearance.) Hoak never received word 
of this hiring from the Pirates officials; his wife delivered the news 
to him. Shortly thereafter, Hoak witnessed his brother-in-law's car being 
stolen from the driveway of the Hoak house. Hoak got into his own car and 
gave chase. He suffered a heart attack during the pursuit, but managed 
to stop his vehicle just before collapsing. A doctor who had been driving 
behind Hoak at the time got out of his own car and performed cardiac massage 
before an ambulance transported Hoak to the hospital. However, despite 
efforts to save his life, Hoak died 10 minutes after arrival. [7] His widow 
would claim for decades that Hoak died of a broken heart because the Pirates 
