As player As manager As coach Wilbur Donald "Don" Wakamatsu (born February 
22, 1963) is an American former professional baseball player, scout, manager 
and current coach. He played as a catcher in Major League Baseball for 
the Chicago White Sox. After his playing career, he was appointed as bench 
coach by the Kansas City Royals for the 2014 season. He was the manager 
of the Seattle Mariners for the 2009 season, as well as the majority of 
the 2010 season.[1] He was the Toronto Blue Jays' bench coach for 2011 
and 2012, after which he was replaced by DeMarlo Hale.[2] [3] During the 
2013 season he worked as a scout for the New York Yankees in the Dallas/Fort 
Worth area.[4] Wakamatsu was a three-sport star at the Bay Area's Hayward 
High School in California, and ultimately chose baseball over football 
due to his lack of size. He and former Jacksonville Jaguars head coach 
Jack Del Rio (current head coach of the Oakland Raiders) were baseball 
and football teammates while there.[5] He was also an All-Pac-10 catcher 
during his last three years at Arizona State University, where he was a 
teammate of Barry Bonds and Alvin Davis. He was drafted by the New York 
Yankees as the last pick of the 1984 Major League Baseball draft, but decided 
to return to ASU. Wakamatsu was drafted in the 11th round of the 1985 Major 
League Baseball draft by the Cincinnati Reds. He reached the Double-A level 
before the Reds released him before the 1989 season. Shortly after the 
Reds released him, he signed with the Chicago White Sox, who assigned him 
to the Double-A Birmingham Barons. He spent 1990 and most of 1991 with 
the Triple-A Vancouver Canadians before getting his only call to the big 
leagues in May 1991. Wakamatsu played 18 games in the majors as a backup 
catcher for the White Sox in 1991,[6] working in all of his starts for 
knuckleballer Charlie Hough. After the 1991 season the White Sox granted 
Wakamatsu free agency, and he signed with the Los Angeles Dodgers shortly 
after. He spent 1992–1996 playing at the Double-A and Triple-A levels in 
the Dodgers, Texas Rangers, Cleveland Indians, Seattle Mariners and Milwaukee 
Brewers organizations before his playing career ended at age 33. Following 
his playing retirement, Wakamatsu became a minor league manager in the 
Arizona Diamondbacks system, managing the Arizona League Diamondbacks in 
1997, the Class-A High Desert Mavericks in 1998, and the Double-A El Paso 
Diablos in 1999. In 1998 he was named Manager of the Year in the California 
League,[6] after leading the High Desert Mavericks to the playoffs. He 
spent 2000 managing the Erie SeaWolves, the Anaheim Angels' Double-A affiliate, 
and then the next two seasons as a roving catching instructor in the Angels 
organization. From 2003 to 2006, he was the Texas Rangers' bench coach. 
During the 2006 season, he served as manager for two games while Buck Showalter 
was in the hospital with an irregular heartbeat brought about due to dehydration, 
and in 2007, took the third base coach job when Ron Washington took over 
as manager. He spent 2008 as the bench coach of the Oakland Athletics. 
On November 19, 2008, he was named the manager of the Seattle Mariners, 
replacing interim manager Jim Riggleman, and becoming the first Asian-American 
manager in the majors. On April 6, 2009, Wakamatsu won his managerial debut 
as the Mariners beat the Minnesota Twins 6–1 on Opening Day. Later in the 
season, Wakamatsu was officially selected as a coach under Tampa Bay Rays 
manager Joe Maddon for the 2009 MLB All-Star Game in St. Louis along with 
Kansas City Royals manager Trey Hillman on June 17, 2009.[7] Fred Claire, 
former baseball executive and current writer for MLB.com, stated that Wakamatsu 
and his staff, composed of bench coach Ty Van Burkleo, pitching coach Rick 
Adair, hitting coach Alan Cockrell, first base coach Lee Tinsley, bullpen 
coach John Wetteland and performance coach Steve Hecht, deserved credit 
for a 24-game improvement. Claire wrote this about Wakamatsu: "It is the 
relationships that Wakamatsu has built during his time in baseball that 
defines him best. He was somewhat of an unknown to the public when he was 
hired as the Mariners' manager last November, but he is well-known and 
highly respected within the game."[8] On May 20, 2010, during a game against 
the Toronto Blue Jays, Wakamatsu received his first career ejection. As 
of June 12,[year missing] he has a career total of two ejections. On August 
9, 2010, amidst one of the worst seasons in team history, Wakamatsu was 
fired as Mariners manager.[9] On November 8, 2010, Wakamatsu was announced 
as the new bench coach for the Toronto Blue Jays, under new manager John 
Farrell.[2] During 2013, Wakamatsu worked as a professional talent scout 
for the New York Yankees.[10] On October 25, 2013, Wakamatsu was announced 
as the new bench coach for the Kansas City Royals.[11] On April 19, Wakamatsu 
was one of five Royals (also pitching coach Dave Eiland, manager Ned Yost, 
pitcher Kelvin Herrera and shortstop Alcides Escobar) to be ejected in 
a game against the Oakland Athletics. Two games prior, Escobar had been 
injured following an attempt by A's third baseman Brett Lawrie to break 
up a double play. Considering the slide a dirty one, Royals pitcher Yordano 
Ventura hit Lawrie in the elbow the following game and was immediately 
ejected. In the series finale, A's pitcher Scott Kazmir hit Lorenzo Cain 
in the foot and warnings were given. Yost and Eiland were immediately ejected 
for arguing. Later in the 8th inning, Kelvin Herrera threw a 100 mph fastball 
behind Lawrie and a trio of ejections followed (Herrera, Wakamatsu and 
Escobar). The Royals would end up winning the game 4-2 despite the ejections.[12] 
Wakamatsu was actually ejected twice, as when a warning has been issued, 
the pitcher and manager are automatically ejected. Wakamatsu was the acting 
manager. This was the cause of his first ejection, the second being him 
arguing with the home plate umpire. Wakamatsu resides in North Richland 
Hills, Texas with wife, Laura, sons: Jacob and Luke, were drafted by the 
Blue Jays in the 48th round of the 2011 MLB Draft. Luke currently plays 
in the Cleveland Indians organization.[14] Born to a Japanese American 
father and an Irish American mother,[15] he is fourth-generation Japanese 
American;[16] and the first half-Asian and half-Caucasian manager in Major 
League Baseball history. Close friends and players call him "Wak" (pronounced 
wok). His father was born in the Tule Lake War Relocation Center, a Japanese 
American internment camp located in Northern California near the Oregon 
