On October 8, 1956, in Game 5 of the 1956 World Series, Don Larsen of the 
New York Yankees threw a perfect game against the Brooklyn Dodgers. Larsen's 
perfect game is the only perfect game in the history of the World Series; 
it is one of only 23 perfect games in MLB history. His perfect game remained 
the only no-hitter of any type ever pitched in postseason play until Philadelphia 
Phillies pitcher Roy Halladay threw a no-hitter against the Cincinnati 
Reds on October 6, 2010, in Game 1 of the National League Division Series,[1] 
and the only postseason game in which any team faced the minimum 27 batters 
until Kyle Hendricks and Aroldis Chapman of the Chicago Cubs managed to 
combine for the feat in the decisive sixth game of the 2016 National League 
Championship Series. Don Larsen of the New York Yankees made his first 
start in a World Series game in the 1955 World Series against the Brooklyn 
Dodgers. Larsen lost the game.[2] The Yankees and Dodgers faced each other 
in the 1956 World Series. Behind Sal Maglie, the Dodgers defeated the Yankees 
in Game 1. Casey Stengel, the manager of the Yankees, selected Larsen to 
start Game 2 against the Dodgers' Don Newcombe.[2] Despite being given 
a 6–0 lead by the Yankees' batters, he lasted only 1 2⁄3 innings against 
the Dodgers in a 13–8 loss. He only gave up one hit, a single by Gil Hodges, 
but walked four batters, which led to four runs in the process, but none 
of them were earned because of an error by first baseman Joe Collins.[3][4] 
The Yankees won Games 3 and 4 to tie the series at two games apiece.[5] 
With the series tied at two games apiece, Larsen started Game 5 for the 
Yankees. Larsen's opponent in the game was Maglie.[6] The Yankees scored 
two runs on Maglie, as Mickey Mantle hit a home run and Hank Bauer had 
a run batted in single. Larsen retired all 27 batters he faced to complete 
the perfect game.[7] Larsen needed just 97 pitches to complete the game, 
and only one Dodger batter (Pee Wee Reese in the first inning) was able 
to get a 3-ball count. In 1998, Larsen recalled, "I had great control. 
I never had that kind of control in my life." The closest the Dodgers came 
to a hit were in the second inning, when Jackie Robinson hit a line drive 
off third baseman Andy Carey's glove, the ball caroming to shortstop Gil 
McDougald, who threw Robinson out by a step, and in the fifth, when Mickey 
Mantle ran down Gil Hodges' deep fly ball. Brooklyn's Maglie gave up only 
two runs on five hits and was perfect himself until Mantle's fourth-inning 
home run broke the scoreless tie. The Yankees added an insurance run in 
the sixth as Hank Bauer's single scored Carey, who had opened the inning 
with a single and was sacrificed to second by Larsen. After Roy Campanella 
grounded out to Billy Martin for the second out of the 9th inning, Larsen 
faced pinch hitter Dale Mitchell, a .311 career hitter. Throwing fastballs, 
Larsen got ahead in the count at 1–2. On his 97th pitch, Larsen struck 
out Mitchell for the 27th consecutive and final out.[8][9] Mitchell appeared 
to check his swing on that last pitch, but home plate umpire Babe Pinelli, 
who would retire at the end of this World Series, called the last pitch 
a strike. Mitchell, who only struck out 119 times in 3,984 at-bats (or 
once every 34 at-bats) during his career, always maintained that the third 
strike he took was really a ball. In one of the most iconic images in sports 
history, catcher Yogi Berra leaped into Larsen's arms after the final out. 
With the death of Berra on September 22, 2015, Larsen is the last living 
player for either team who played in this game. NBC televised the game, 
with announcers Mel Allen (for the Yankees) and Vin Scully (for the Dodgers). 
In 2006, it was announced that a nearly-complete kinescope recording of 
the Game 5 telecast (featuring Larsen's perfect game) had been preserved 
and discovered by a collector. That kinescope recording aired during the 
MLB Network's first night on the air on January 1, 2009, supplemented with 
an interview of both Larsen and Yogi Berra by Bob Costas. The first inning 
of the telecast is still considered lost and was not aired by the MLB Network 
or included in a subsequent DVD release of the game. The Dodgers won Game 
6 of the series, but the Yankees won the decisive Game 7. Larsen's performance 
earned him the World Series Most Valuable Player Award[10] and the Babe 
Ruth Award.[11] When the World Series ended, Larsen did a round of endorsements 
and promotional work around the United States, but he stopped soon after 
because it was "disrupting his routine".[12] Larsen's perfect game remained 
the only no-hitter thrown in the MLB postseason until Roy Halladay of the 
Philadelphia Phillies threw a no-hitter on October 6, 2010, against the 
Cincinnati Reds in the first game of the 2010 National League Division 
Series.[13] Halladay, who had already thrown a perfect game earlier in 
the 2010 season, faced 28 batters after giving up a walk (to Jay Bruce 
of the Cincinnati Reds) in the fifth inning. Larsen's perfect game would 
remain the only postseason game in which any team faced the minimum 27 
batters until Kyle Hendricks and Aroldis Chapman of the Chicago Cubs managed 
to achieve the feat in Game 6 of the 2016 National League Championship 
Series. In that game, the Cubs gave up two hits, a walk and committed a 
fielding error, but managed to put out all four opposing baserunners (three 
via double plays and one on a pick off). Italics denotes post-season perfect game 
