Don Daglow (born circa 1953[citation needed]) is an American computer game 
and video game designer, programmer and producer. He is best known for 
being the creator of early games from several different genres, including 
pioneering simulation game Utopia for Intellivision in 1981, role-playing 
game Dungeon in 1975, sports games including the first interactive computer 
baseball game Baseball in 1971, and the first graphical MMORPG, Neverwinter 
Nights in 1991. He founded long-standing game developer Stormfront Studios 
in 1988. In 2008 Daglow was honored at the 59th Annual Technology & Engineering 
Emmy Awards for Neverwinter Nights pioneering role in MMORPG development.[1] 
Along with John Carmack of id Software and Mike Morhaime of Blizzard Entertainment, 
Daglow is one of only three game developers to accept awards at both the 
Technology & Engineering Emmy Awards and at the Academy of Interactive 
Arts & Sciences Interactive Achievement Awards.[citation needed] In 2003 
he was the recipient of the CGE Achievement Award for "groundbreaking accomplishments 
that shaped the Video Game Industry." In 1971 Daglow was studying playwriting 
at Pomona College in Claremont, California. A computer terminal connected 
to the Claremont Colleges PDP-10 mainframe computer was set up in his dorm, 
and he saw this as a new form of writing. Like Kelton Flinn, another prolific 
game designer of the 1970s, his nine years of computer access as a student, 
grad student and grad school instructor throughout the 1970s gave him time 
to build a large body of major titles. Unlike Daglow and Flinn, most college 
students in the early 1970s lost all access to computers when they graduated, 
since home computers had not yet been invented. Some of Daglow's titles 
were distributed to universities by the DECUS program-sharing organization, 
earning popularity in the free-play era of 1970s college gaming. His best 
known games and experiments of this era include: In 1980 Daglow was hired 
as one of the original five in-house Intellivision programmers at Mattel 
during the first console wars.[4][5] Intellivision titles where he did 
programming and extensive ongoing design include: As the team grew into 
what in 1982 became known as the Blue Sky Rangers Daglow was promoted to 
be Director of Intellivision Game Development, where he created the original 
designs for a number of Mattel titles in 1982-83 that were enhanced and 
expanded by other programmers, including: During the Video Game Crash of 
1983 Daglow was recruited to join Electronic Arts by founder Trip Hawkins, 
where he joined the EA producer team of Joe Ybarra and Stewart Bonn. His 
EA titles include: In addition to Dombrower, at EA, Daglow often worked 
with former members of the Intellivision team, including programmer Rick 
Koenig, artist Connie Goldman and musician Dave Warhol. Daglow spent 1987–88 
at Brøderbund as head of the company's Entertainment and Education Division. 
Although he supervised the creation of games like Jordan Mechner's Prince 
of Persia, Star Wars, the Ancient Art of War series, and Where in the World 
is Carmen Sandiego?, his role was executive rather than creative. He took 
a lead role in signing the original distribution deal for SimCity with 
Maxis, and acquired the Star Wars license for Brøderbund from LucasFilm. 
Looking to return to hands-on game development, Daglow founded game developer 
Stormfront Studios in 1988[4] in San Rafael, California. Between 1988 and 
1995 Daglow designed or co-designed the following titles: By 1995 Stormfront 
had placed on the Inc. 500 list of fast-growing companies three times and 
Daglow stepped back from his design role to focus on the CEO position. 
See the article on Stormfront Studios for further information. In 2003 
and again in 2007 Daglow was elected to the Board of Directors of the Academy 
of Interactive Arts & Sciences. He also serves on the San Francisco Advisory 
Board of the IGDA, the Advisory Board to the President of the Academy of 
Art University and served on the Advisory Board to the Games Convention 
Developers Conference until it was dissolved in 2008. In 2009, Daglow joined 
the board of GDC Europe.[6] He has been a keynote speaker, lecturer and 
panelist at game development conferences in Australia, Canada, Germany, 
the United Kingdom and the United States. During the late 1970s Daglow 
worked as a teacher and graduate school instructor while pursuing his writing 
career. He was a winner of the National Endowment for the Humanities New 
Voices playwriting competition in 1975. His 1979 novelette The Blessing 
of La Llorona appeared in the April, 1982 issue of Fantasy and Science 
