Don Robertson is a retired American television announcer for the CBS television 
network. He was known as "The Voice Of CBS Sports", where he also voiced 
nearly every sporting event CBS had. Robertson also voiced the CBS network 
ID "This is CBS", along with promos for the sporting events that he would 
call. Educated at University of North Carolina, he once sang in the glee 
club with Andy Griffith. After working as a radio reporter throughout high 
school and college, Robertson received a degree in communications in 1950. 
He went in to the Air Force after college and served in Korea. In 1953, 
he left military service and returned to broadcasting, working for radio 
and television markets in North and South Carolina and Connecticut. Robertson 
once worked for WBTV-TV in Charlotte, North Carolina when he got his big 
break. In 1961, he had moved to WBT-AM, where “I think I was on the air 
all day,” he said. He did news, weather and sports for a morning show, 
and hosted a mid-day interview show. He also did play-by-play sports announcing 
for Davidson College. Robertson was in New York announcing a basketball 
game between the college and New York University at Madison Square Garden 
when a producer with CBS Sports Spectacular invited him to auditions that 
were taking place while he was in town. About two days later, the station 
manager of WBT-AM came in and said, ‘Congratulations on your new job, Don.’ 
I didn’t want them to know I was auditioning, but he said CBS had called 
to make sure it was okay to hire me. So that’s how I found out I had a 
job with CBS,” he said. Ultimately, Robertson then moved to CBS Sports. 
Management there had decided they wanted one voice that viewers could associate 
with all their sporting events, and the voice they chose was his. As he 
advanced his career, Robertson was also raising a family with his wife 
Mary, whom he married in 1951 after knowing her for six months. Throughout 
his career, Robertson has worked with Pat Summerall, and Jack Whitaker 
and he still remains close friends with them to this day. He has voiced 
the World Series, The Masters, and every golf and tennis tournament that 
