Donald Andrew Hall, Jr.[1] (born September 20, 1928), known as Donald Hall 
is an American poet, writer, editor and literary critic. Hall was a graduate 
of Phillips Exeter Academy, Harvard and Oxford, Hall is the author of over 
50 books across several genres from children's literature, biography, memoir, 
essays, and including 22 volumes of verse. Regarded as a "plainspoken, 
rural poet," Hall's work "explores the longing for a more bucolic past 
and reflects the poet's abiding reverence for nature."[2] Early in his 
career, he became the first poetry editor of The Paris Review (1953–1961), 
a prominent quarterly literary journal, and was noted for interviewing 
poets and other authors on their craft. Hall is respected for his work 
as an academic, having taught at Stanford University, Bennington College 
and the University of Michigan, who has made significant contributions 
to the study and craft of writing. On June 14, 2006, Hall was appointed 
as the Library of Congress's 14th Poet Laureate Consultant in Poetry (commonly 
known as "Poet Laureate of the United States").[3] Hall served as poet 
laureate for one year. Hall was born in Hamden, Connecticut, the only child 
of Donald Andrew Hall, a businessman, and Lucy Wells. He was educated at 
Phillips Exeter Academy, then earned a bachelor's degree from Harvard in 
1951 and a B.Litt, from Oxford in 1953. Hall received an honorary PhD, 
Lit. from Bates College in 1991. Hall began writing even before reaching 
his teens, beginning with poems and short stories, and then moving on to 
novels and dramatic verse. Hall continued to write throughout his prep 
school years at Exeter, and, while still only sixteen years old, attended 
the Bread Loaf Writers' Conference, where he made his first acquaintance 
with the poet Robert Frost. That same year, he published his first work. 
While an undergraduate at Harvard, Hall served on the editorial board of 
The Harvard Advocate, and got to know a number of people who, like him, 
were poised with significant ambitions in the literary world, amongst them 
John Ashbery, Robert Bly, Kenneth Koch, Frank O'Hara, and Adrienne Rich. 
During his senior year, he won the Glascock Prize that Koch had won 3 years 
earlier. After leaving Harvard, Hall went to Oxford for two years, to study 
for the B.Litt. He was editor of the magazine Oxford Poetry, as literary 
editor of Isis, as editor of New Poems, and as poetry editor of The Paris 
Review. At the end of his first Oxford year, Hall also won the university's 
Newdigate Prize, awarded for his long poem, 'Exile'. In September, 1952, 
he married his first wife, Kirby Thompson, with whom he had his son and 
daughter.[4] On returning to the United States, Hall went to Stanford, 
where he spent one year as a Creative Writing Fellow, studying under the 
poet-critic, Yvor Winters. Following his year at Stanford, Hall went back 
to Harvard, where he spent three years in the Society of Fellows. During 
that time, he put together his first book, Exiles and Marriages. In 1957, 
with Robert Pack and Louis Simpson, he edited an anthology which was to 
make a significant impression on both sides of the Atlantic, New Poets 
of England and America. It was later juxtaposed with Donald Allen's The 
New American Poetry 1945–1960. In 1968, he signed the "Writers and Editors 
War Tax Protest" pledge, vowing to refuse tax payments in protest against 
the Vietnam War.[5] While teaching at the University of Michigan in Ann 
Arbor, Michigan he met poet Jane Kenyon, whom he married in 1972. Three 
years after they were wed, they moved to Eagle Pond Farm, his grandparents' 
former home in Wilmot, New Hampshire. Hall and Kenyon were profiled at 
their home in a 1993 PBS documentary, "A Life Together," which aired as 
an episode of "The Bill Moyers Journal."In 1989, when Hall was in his early 
sixties, it was discovered that he had colon cancer. Surgery followed, 
but by 1992 the cancer had metastasized to his liver. After another operation, 
and chemotherapy, he went into remission, though he was told that he only 
had a one-in-three chance of surviving the next five years. Then, early 
in 1994, it was discovered that Kenyon had leukemia. Her illness, her death 
fifteen months later, and Hall's struggle to come to terms with these things, 
were the subject of his 1998 book, Without. Another book of poems dedicated 
to Kenyon, Painted Bed, is cited by Publishers Weekly as "more controlled, 
more varied and more powerful, this taut follow-up volume reexamines Hall's 
grief while exploring the life he has made since. The book's first poem, 
'Kill the Day,' stands among the best Hall has ever written. It examines 
mourning in 16 long-lined stanzas, alternating catalogue with aphorism, 
understatement with keened lament: 'How many times will he die in his own 
lifetime?' Hall served as a member of the editorial board for poetry at 
the Wesleyan University Press from 1958 to 1964.[6] He has been closely 
affiliated with the Bennington College's graduate writing program since 
1994, giving lectures and readings annually. To date, Hall has published 
fifteen books of poetry, most recently White Apples and the Taste of Stone 
(2006), The Painted Bed (2002) and Without: Poems (1998), which was published 
on the third anniversary of Jane Kenyon's death. Most of the poems in Without 
deal with Kenyon's illness and death, and many are epistolary poems. In 
addition to poetry, he has also written several collections of essays (among 
them Life Work and String Too Short to be Saved), children's books (notably 
Ox-Cart Man, which won the Caldecott Medal), and a number of plays. His 
recurring themes include New England rural living, baseball, and how work 
conveys meaning to ordinary life. He is regarded as a master both of received 
forms and free verse, and a champion of the art of revision, for whom writing 
is a craft, not merely a mode of self-expression. Hall has won many awards, 
including two Guggenheim Fellowships and a Robert Frost Medal, and has 
served as poet laureate of his state. He continues to live and work at 
Eagle Pond Farm. When not working on poems, he has turned his hand to reviews, 
criticism, textbooks, sports journalism, memoirs, biographies, children's 
stories, and plays. He has also devoted a lot of time to editing: between 
1983 and 1996 he oversaw publication of more than sixty titles for the 
University of Michigan Press alone. He was for five years Poet Laureate 
of his home state, New Hampshire (1984–89), and can list among the many 
other honours and awards to have come his way: the Lamont Poetry Prize 
for Exiles and Marriages (1955), the Edna St Vincent Millay Award (1956), 
two Guggenheim Fellowships (1963–64, 1972–73), inclusion on the Horn Book 
Honour List (1986), the Sarah Josepha Hale Award (1983), the Lenore Marshall 
Poetry Prize (1987), the National Book Critics Circle Award for Poetry 
(1988), the NBCC Award (1989), the Los Angeles Times Book Prize in poetry 
(1989), and the Frost Medal (1990). He has been nominated for the National 
Book Award on three separate occasions (1956, 1979 and 1993). In 1994, 
he received the Ruth Lilly Poetry Prize for his lifetime achievement. Hall 
was named the fourteenth U.S. Poet Laureate, succeeding Ted Kooser.[7] 
He served from October 1, 2006, and was succeeded by Charles Simic the 
following year.[8] At the time of his appointment, Hall was profiled in 
episode of The News Hour with Jim Lehrer that aired on October 16, 2006. 
Hall was awarded the 2010 National Medal of Arts by President Barack Obama.[9] 
Donald Hall currently resides at Eagle Pond Farm in Wilmot, New Hampshire, 
a small town in Merrimack County in the vicinity of where the late poet 
