Donn Alvin Clendenon (July 15, 1935 – September 17, 2005) was a Major League 
Baseball first baseman. He is best remembered as the World Series MVP for 
the 1969 "Amazin' Mets." Six months after Clendenon was born in Neosho, 
Missouri, his father, Claude, died from leukemia. Claude Clendenon was 
a mathematics and psychology professor and chairman of the mathematics 
department at Langston University, an all-black school in Langston, Oklahoma. 
Clendenon's mother, Helen, demanded high academic achievement from her 
son. When he was only 6 years old, Clendenon's mother married former Negro 
Leagues baseball player Nish Williams.[1] In addition to academic excellence, 
Clendenon's new stepfather decided he was going to make his stepson into 
a baseball player. Williams served as a coach on virtually every baseball 
team that Clendenon played on, including his college team at Atlanta's 
Morehouse College, and his semi-pro career with the Atlanta Black Crackers. 
Along with Williams, Clendenon also received pointers from some of the 
players Williams knew from the Negro Leagues, including Jackie Robinson, 
Satchel Paige, Roy Campanella and Don Newcombe. Clendenon graduated as 
a letterman in nine sports at Booker T. Washington High School in Atlanta, 
Georgia, and received a host of scholarship offers. He was prepared to 
attend UCLA on a scholarship until some coaches from Morehouse College 
in Atlanta visited his mother, and convinced her that he should attend 
a school closer to home. Morehouse College was among the premier academic 
institutions for young African-American men. Just before Clendenon arrived 
in 1952, the freshman class were assigned "Big Brothers" to help the students 
acclimate themselves to Morehouse and college life. Although the policy 
had ended when he arrived, a Morehouse graduate volunteered to be Clendenon's 
big brother. His name was Martin Luther King, Jr.[2] Clendenon became a 
twelve sport letterman in football, basketball and baseball at Morehouse, 
and had received contract offers from both the Cleveland Browns and the 
Harlem Globetrotters. Clendenon, however, decided he wanted to teach, and 
began teaching fourth grade upon graduation. Williams convinced Clendenon 
to attend a Pittsburgh Pirates try-out camp in 1957, and he signed with 
the team as an amateur free agent shortly afterwards. After five seasons 
in the minor leagues, Clendenon made his major league debut with Pittsburgh 
in 1961 as a September call-up. In his rookie season, 1962, Clendenon batted 
.302 with seven home runs and 28 runs batted in in eighty games to finish 
second in National League Rookie of the Year balloting to Chicago Cubs 
second baseman Ken Hubbs. Following the 1962 season, the Pirates traded 
first baseman Dick Stuart to the Boston Red Sox in order to open a position 
for Clendenon. He responded by batting .275 with 15 home runs and 57 RBI. 
Clendenon drove in 96 and 98 in 1965 and 1966, respectively, and became 
a member of Pittsburgh's famed "Lumber Company" along with Willie Stargell 
and Roberto Clemente. He also earned a reputation as a "free swinger" as 
he led the league in strikeouts in 1963 and 1968, and finished second in 
1966 and third in 1965. With first base prospect Al Oliver waiting in the 
wings, the Pirates left Clendenon unprotected for the 1968 Major League 
Baseball expansion draft, and he was selected by the Montreal Expos. On 
January 22, 1969, the Expos traded Clendenon and Jesús Alou to the Houston 
Astros for Rusty Staub. The Astros had recently hired Clendenon's former 
Pirates manager, Harry Walker, with whom Clendenon had a personality clash, 
to steer their club. Clendenon refused to report to his new team. The Expos 
and Astros worked out a new deal, and Clendenon joined the Expos on April 
19, 1969. He was batting .240 with four home runs and 14 RBI when the Expos 
dealt him to the New York Mets on June 15, 1969, in exchange for Steve 
Renko, Kevin Collins and two minor leaguers. The Mets were in second place, 
nine games back of Leo Durocher's Chicago Cubs in the newly aligned National 
League East, when they acquired Clendenon. Splitting time with Ed Kranepool 
at first base, Clendenon's numbers with the Mets did not improve immediately 
over those he put up with the Expos. Slowly, however, Clendenon's batting 
average began to rise; on August 30, Clendenon hit a 10th-inning home run 
against the San Francisco Giants to give the Mets the 3–2 win.[3] The Mets 
were 2 1⁄2 games back of Chicago when the Cubs came to Shea Stadium for 
a two-game set on September 8. The Mets swept the set to move within 1⁄2 
game of first place, with Clendenon hitting a two-run home run in the Mets' 
7-1 victory on the ninth.[4] The Mets won their next six in a row (10 total) 
to move 3 1⁄2 games over the Cubs. On September 24, Clendenon swung the 
big bat against the St. Louis Cardinals with a three-run home run and a 
solo shot to clinch the NL East.[5] Overall, they won 39 of their last 
50 games, and finished with 100 wins against 62 losses, eight games over 
the second-place Cubs. Clendenon did not appear in the Mets' 1969 National 
League Championship Series three-game sweep of the Atlanta Braves to reach 
the World Series against the Baltimore Orioles. Clendenon appeared in four 
of the five games, missing only Game 3. He went 2 for 4 in Game 1, scoring 
the Mets' only run in their 4–1 loss.[6] He hit a fourth-inning home run 
in game two[7] and a second-inning home run in game four[8] to give the 
Mets early 1-0 leads in both games. The Orioles were ahead 3–0 in Game 
5 when Cleon Jones led off the sixth inning. Dave McNally appeared to hit 
Jones in the foot with a pitch; however, home plate umpire Lou DiMuro ruled 
that the ball had missed Jones. Mets manager Gil Hodges emerged from the 
dugout to argue, and showed DiMuro a shoe-polish smudge on the ball. DiMuro 
reversed his call, and awarded Jones first base. Clendenon followed with 
a two-run home run to pull the Mets within a run. The Mets eventually won 
the game, 5–3, to complete their improbable World Series victory over the 
heavily-favored Orioles.[9] For the series, Clendenon batted .357 (5 for 
14) with three home runs and four RBI, and was named World Series MVP. 
His three home runs remain tied for most home runs in a five-game Series, 
with Ryan Howard equaling it in the 2008 World Series. On July 28, 1970, 
Clendenon set a Mets record by driving in seven runs with a pair of three-run 
homers and a sacrifice fly.[10] The Mets were in second place, one game 
back of the Pirates at the end of play that day. However, they sputtered 
from there, ending the season in third place, six games back of the division 
winning Pirates. Clendenon batted .288 with 22 home runs for the season, 
and set the Mets' single season RBI record with 97. After having been demoted 
to the Tidewater Tides in 1970, Ed Kranepool enjoyed a career year with 
the Mets in 1971. With first base prospects Mike Jorgensen and John Milner 
also both waiting in the wings, Clendenon became the odd man out, and was 
released by the Mets at the end of the 1971 season. Clendenon caught on 
with the St. Louis Cardinals for the 1972 season, but saw very limited 
playing time behind Matty Alou. He was released on August 2 with a .191 
batting average, four home runs and just nine RBIs. Interestingly enough, 
the Cards dealt Alou to the Oakland Athletics three weeks later, and spent 
the rest of the season with something of a revolving door at first base. 
After retiring, Clendenon earned a Juris Doctor degree from Duquesne University 
in 1978, and began practicing law in Dayton, Ohio. He recounted the 1969 
New York Mets season in his book, Miracle In New York, in which he also 
talked about growing up in Atlanta, earning his law degree and battling 
drug addiction as he neared his 50th birthday.[11] He eventually entered 
a drug rehabilitation facility in Ogden, Utah, and during a physical examination 
in connection with his treatment, learned he had leukemia. That prompted 
his move to Sioux Falls, South Dakota, in 1987, where he worked with Carlsen, 
Carter, Hoy & Eirenberg before becoming general counsel to the Interstate 
Audit Corporation. He also worked for many years as a chemical dependency 
counselor and was devoted to helping others in their recovery. Clendenon 
died in Sioux Falls at age 70 after a long bout with leukemia.[12] He was 
survived by his wife, Anne; his sons, Donn, Jr. and Val, his daughter, 
Donna Clendenon, and six grandsons. Shortly before his death, he was inducted 
