A doosra is a particular type of delivery by an off-spin bowler in the 
sport of cricket. The doosra spins in the opposite direction to an off 
break (the off-spinner's default delivery), and aims to confuse the batsman 
into playing a poor shot. Doosra means "(the) second (one)", or "(the) 
other (one)" in Urdu[1] [2] [3] The delivery was invented by Pakistani 
cricketer Saqlain Mushtaq. A variety of bowlers have made considerable 
use of the doosra in international cricket. Users include Sri Lankan Muttiah 
Muralitharan, Indian Harbhajan Singh, and South African Johan Botha. Other 
Pakistanis who use it include Shoaib Malik and Saeed Ajmal. A few bowlers, 
such as Johan Botha and Shane Shillingford, are not allowed to bowl doosras 
because, when they do so, their bowling actions are illegal. The doosra 
is a relatively new type of delivery. Although some credit Saqlain Mushtaq 
with its invention in the 1990s, the history of off spinners turning the 
ball either way goes back as far as the late 1950s, when West Indian Sonny 
Ramadhin was able to achieve this. The naming of the delivery is attributed 
to Moin Khan, the former Pakistani wicketkeeper, who would call on Mushtaq 
to bowl the "doosra" (the other one) from behind the stumps. Tony Greig, 
a commentator in one of these matches, eventually linked the word to the 
delivery and confirmed it with Saqlain in a post-match interview.[4] Thus 
the term became a part of cricketing culture. The doosra is now an important 
part of the off-spin armoury. The bowler delivers the ball with the same 
wrist action by locking the wrist and using the index and ring fingers 
instead of the usual index and middle fingers. This gives the ball spin 
in the opposite direction to that for an off break, causing it to spin 
from the leg side to the off side to a right-handed batsman. The doosra 
is the off-spinner's equivalent of the leg-spinner's googly, which spins 
in the opposite direction to the leg spinner's stock ball. It is possible 
for a left-armer (whose action mirrors that of an off-spinner) to bowl 
the doosra, which in this case would turn from off to leg. Sri Lankan left-armer 
Rangana Herath gained recognition by bowling the delivery, in particular 
against the Australians during an A tour.[5] England left-armer Monty Panesar 
has claimed to have bowled the delivery occasionally in domestic matches.[6] 
In the test series against Sri Lanka in 2014, the English spin bowler Moeen 
Ali bowled a doosra making him the first English spinner to do so in an 
international match. Increasingly, it seems that many other off-spinners 
are trying to make use of the "doosra" delivery with varying degrees of 
success.[citation needed] While Saqlain never had legitimacy issues regarding 
his action, other off-spinners attempting to utilize the delivery have 
had accusations (for the most part dismissed) of chucking (throwing) levelled 
against them. These include; Muttiah Muralitharan, Harbhajan Singh, Shoaib 
Malik, Saeed Ajmal and Johan Botha. The South Australian Dan Cullen has 
also been rumoured to be able to bowl the doosra. Muralitharan's doosra 
was the subject of an official report by match referee Chris Broad during 
Australia's tour of Sri Lanka in 2004, for illegal bending of the arm at 
the elbow during the bowling action. Subsequent biomechanical tests conducted 
at the University of Western Australia in Perth showed that Muralitharan 
was straightening his arm by angles of up to 10 degrees prior to delivering 
doosras, well outside the International Cricket Council (ICC) acceptable 
guideline of 5 degrees for spin bowlers. (Straightening the bent arm at 
the moment of delivery imparts added ball speed due to the action of the 
triceps muscle: this is one of the ways baseball pitchers generate ball 
velocity.) Muralitharan was subsequently instructed by Sri Lanka Cricket 
not to bowl the doosra in international cricket. In November 2004, the 
International Cricket Council conducted more research into illegal bowling 
actions and found that many great bowlers like Glenn Mcgrath, Jason Gillespie, 
Shaun Pollock, whose actions were considered legitimate were actually transgressing 
the rules. A rule change was proposed and accepted at a meeting of ICC 
chief executives in early 2005, stating that any bowler may straighten 
their arm up to 15° (which was earlier 9° for spinner and 12° for seamer) 
and Muralitharan's doosra once again became a legal delivery. In February 
2006, in an attempt to silence the Australian crowds and their 'no ball' 
chants, Muralitharan took another test at the University of Western Australia, 
which saw all of his deliveries deemed legal, including the doosra. The 
doosra of Indian bowler Harbhajan Singh was the subject of an official 
report by match referee Chris Broad, on-field umpires Aleem Dar and Mark 
Benson, and TV umpire Mahbubur Rahman after the second Test between India 
and Bangladesh at Chittagong in December 2004. It was hi reported that 
his arm is straightened by angles of up to 10 degrees, 5 degrees within 
the ICC tolerance levels.[7] Pakistani all-rounder Shoaib Malik was also 
reported for his doosra before the first Test between Australia and Pakistan 
in December 2004. Biomechanics tests, similar to those performed on Muralitharan, 
were conducted, and he did not bowl in subsequent Tests in that series. 
Unlike many other cricketers accused of throwing when bowling their doosra 
delivery, Malik is also a capable batsman, and some analysts speculate 
that he might focus on his batting if prevented from bowling this delivery. 
Malik was omitted from the Pakistani team for the first Test against Australia 
in 2004, although this was due to the reputation of the Perth pitch as 
being unfriendly to spin bowlers rather than as a result of the controversy. 
Malik returned to bowling in May 2005 following remedial work. He was reported 
again, alongside Shabbir Ahmed, after the first Test against England at 
Multan in November 2005. In May 2006, Malik opted for elbow surgery to 
correct his bowling action. He and the Pakistan Cricket Board had previously 
unsuccessfully argued that a 2003 road accident caused the damage to his 
elbow which makes his action appear suspect. Malik returned to play in 
June 2006 but does not bowl the doosra any more.[8] South African Johan 
Botha has been reported for his version of the doosra after the 3rd Test 
match against Australia in January 2006. Botha was playing in his maiden 
test match at the time, taking 2 wickets. His bowling was later ruled illegal, 
and he was banned, though this ban was lifted in November 2006.[9] However, 
in April 2009, he was called for a re-assessment of his bowling action 
after the series in Australia.[10] In May 2009, he was allowed to bowl 
all types of deliveries except the doosra, which was deemed to exceed the 
15-degree limit. A Pakistani cricketer, Saeed Ajmal is an off-spin bowler 
who also uses the doosra to good effect. He has a well disguised doosra 
and keeps it as a mystery while he bowls. His technique is noted for causing 
more spin than speed, to his personal preference. In April 2009, Ajmal 
was reported by umpires for having a suspect bowling action.[11] An independent 
test the following month, reaffirmed later by a subsequent thorough investigation 
by journalist George Dobell with extensive discussion with the ICC conducted 
& released in 2012, both underlined the fact that Ajmal's bowling action 
falls well within the legal bounds set by the ICC for bowlers.[12] Ajmal 
also has a mystery delivery called teesra which he used against England's 
Stuart Broad in test series at UAE in 2011-12. However, he was banned in 
September 2014 after his action was deemed illegal for all deliveries by 
the ICC as part of the clampdown on illegal actions. Although initially 
he hoped to make the 2015 Cricket World Cup he subsequently ruled himself 
out in December 2014 after deciding not to get his action retested by the 
ICC[13] and although his ban was lifted in February 2015[14] did not feature 
in the showpiece event. In July 2009 in Australia, a spin summit held at 
Cricket Australia's Centre for Excellence decided not to teach the doosra 
to young spinners. The delegates at the meeting included former Test spinners 
Shane Warne, Stuart MacGill, Jim Higgs, Gavin Robertson, Terry Jenner, 
Peter Philpott and Ashley Mallett. According to them, the doosra cannot 
be bowled legally and unless ICC decides to legalise all forms of chucking, 
it will not be taught in Australia. Vincent Barnes in an interview argues[15] 
that Bruce Elliott, the University of Western Australia professor who is 
also the ICC biomechanist, had made an interesting discovery in his dealings 
with finger spinners. "He said he had found that a lot of bowlers from 
the subcontinent could bowl the doosra legally, but not Caucasian bowlers." 
Despite that, Jason Krejza bowled Usman Khawaja with what seemed to be 
a doosra during a first-class match.[16] While the video in question shows 
the ball turning in after hitting the footmarks and releasing a puff of 
dust on impact, Krejza has, in fact, admitted he is developing a doosra. 
Krejza's doosra is flicked with the finger and comes from the front of 
the hand. Traditionally off-spinners bowl the delivery out of the back 
of the hand. While Terry Jenner has been sceptical of Krejza's new addition 
he reportedly went on to say "if Jason Krejza has miraculously discovered 
a way to bowl the doosra without flexing his elbow, then he's a genius."[17] 
In 2004, Saqlain Mushtaq, the developer of the doosra, claimed to have 
developed a new variant called the Teesra, which is a backspinner disguised 
as an off spinner.[18] He was supposed to have used it in ICL matches. 
Actually teesra is a slightly round-arm delivery, having more pace than 
either doosra or offspinner and can certainly surprise a batsman. It can 
also have good effect in limited overs cricket for containing runs. In 
2012, Saeed Ajmal has claimed to have learned the art of teesra and is 
