Doris Kearns Goodwin (born January 4, 1943) is an American biographer, 
historian, and political commentator. She has authored biographies of several 
U.S. presidents, including Lyndon Johnson and the American Dream; The Fitzgeralds 
and the Kennedys: An American Saga; No Ordinary Time: Franklin and Eleanor 
Roosevelt: The Home Front in World War II (which won the Pulitzer Prize 
for History in 1995); Team of Rivals: The Political Genius of Abraham Lincoln; 
and her most recent book, The Bully Pulpit: Theodore Roosevelt, William 
Howard Taft, and the Golden Age of Journalism. Kearns was born Doris Helen 
Kearns in Brooklyn, New York, the daughter of Helen Witt (née Miller) and 
Michael Francis Aloysius Kearns. She has a sister, Jene Kearns.[1][2] Her 
paternal grandparents were Irish immigrants.[3] She grew up in Rockville 
Centre, New York. She attended Colby College in Maine, where she was a 
member of Delta Delta Delta and Phi Beta Kappa, and was graduated magna 
cum laude in 1964 with a Bachelor of Arts degree. She was awarded a Woodrow 
Wilson Fellowship in 1964[4] to pursue doctoral studies. In 1968, she earned 
a Ph.D. in government from Harvard University, with a thesis titled "Prayer 
and Reapportionment: An Analysis of the Relationship between the Congress 
and the Court."[5] In 1967, Kearns went to Washington, D.C. as a White 
House Fellow during the Lyndon B. Johnson administration. Johnson initially 
expressed interest in hiring the young intern as his Oval Office assistant, 
but after an article by Kearns appeared in The New Republic laying out 
a scenario for Johnson's removal from office over his conduct of the war 
in Vietnam, she was instead assigned to the Department of Labor; Goodwin 
has written that she felt relieved to be able to remain in the internship 
program in any capacity at all. "The president discovered that I had been 
actively involved in the anti-Vietnam War movement and had written an article 
entitled, 'How to Dump Lyndon Johnson'. I thought for sure he would kick 
me out of the program, but instead he said, 'Oh, bring her down here for 
a year and if I can't win her over, no one can'."[6] After Johnson decided 
not to run for reelection, he brought Kearns to the White House as a member 
of his staff, where she focused on domestic anti-poverty efforts.[7] After 
Johnson left office in 1969, Kearns taught government at Harvard for 10 
years, including a course on the American presidency. During this period, 
she also assisted Johnson in drafting his memoirs. Her first book Lyndon 
Johnson and the American Dream, which drew upon her conversations with 
the late president, was published in 1977, becoming a New York Times bestseller 
and provided a launching pad for her literary career. A sports journalist 
as well, Goodwin was the first female journalist to enter the Boston Red 
Sox locker room. She consulted on and appeared in Ken Burns's 1994 documentary 
Baseball. Goodwin won the 1995 Pulitzer Prize for History for No Ordinary 
Time: Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt: The Home Front During World War II 
(1994).[8] Goodwin received an honorary L.H.D. from Bates College in 1998.[9][10][11][12][13][14] 
She was awarded an honorary doctorate from Westfield State College in 2008. 
Goodwin won the 2005 Lincoln Prize (for the best book about the American 
Civil War) for Team of Rivals: The Political Genius of Abraham Lincoln 
(2005), a book about Abraham Lincoln's presidential cabinet. Part of the 
book was adapted by Tony Kushner into the screenplay for Steven Spielberg's 
2012 film Lincoln. She is a member of the Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial 
Commission advisory board.[15][16][17][18] The book also won the inaugural 
American History Book Prize given by the New-York Historical Society. Goodwin 
was a member of the board of directors for Northwest Airlines. Goodwin 
is a frequent guest commentator on Meet the Press, appearing many times 
(during the tenures of hosts Tim Russert, Tom Brokaw, David Gregory, and 
Chuck Todd), as well as a regular guest on Charlie Rose, appearing a total 
of forty times since 1994. Stephen King met with Goodwin while he was writing 
his novel 11/22/63, due to her being an assistant to Johnson, and King 
used some of her ideas in the novel on what a worst-case scenario would 
be like if history had changed.[19] In 2014, Kearns won the Andrew Carnegie 
Medal for Excellence in Nonfiction for The Bully Pulpit.[20] It was also 
a Los Angeles Times Book Prize finalist (History, 2013)[21] and a Christian 
Science Monitor 15 best nonfiction (2013).[citation needed] In 2016, she 
appeared as herself in the fifth episode of American Horror Story: Roanoke.[22] 
In 2002, The Weekly Standard determined that her book The Fitzgeralds and 
the Kennedys used without attribution numerous phrases and sentences from 
three other books: Times to Remember, by Rose Kennedy; The Lost Prince, 
by Hank Searl; and Kathleen Kennedy: Her Life and Times, by Lynne McTaggart.[23] 
McTaggart remarked, "If somebody takes a third of somebody's book, which 
is what happened to me, they are lifting out the heart and guts of somebody 
else's individual expression."[24] Goodwin admitted that she had previously 
reached a large "private settlement" with McTaggart over the issue. In 
an article she wrote for Time magazine, she said, "Though my footnotes 
repeatedly cited Ms. McTaggart's work, I failed to provide quotation marks 
for phrases that I had taken verbatim... The larger question for those 
of us who write history is to understand how citation mistakes can happen."[25] 
Slate magazine also reported that there were multiple passages in Goodwin's 
book on the Roosevelts (No Ordinary Time) that were apparently taken from 
Joseph Lash's Eleanor and Franklin, Hugh Gregory Gallagher's FDR's Splendid 
Deception, and other books, although she "scrupulously" footnoted the material. 
The Los Angeles Times reported similar circumstances concerning her book 
The Fitzgeralds and the Kennedys.[26][27] The allegations of plagiarism 
caused Goodwin to leave her position as a regular guest on the PBS NewsHour 
program.[28] In 1975, Kearns married Richard N. Goodwin,[29] who had worked 
in the Johnson and Kennedy administrations as an adviser and a speechwriter. 
They live in Concord, Massachusetts, and have three sons, Richard, Michael, 
and Joseph. In her contributions to Ken Burns's award-winning documentary 
television series Baseball (1994), Goodwin related stories about growing 
up as a Brooklyn Dodgers fan. She noted that her father would have her 
document the baseball game from the radio and replay the events of the 
game once he returned home. She cited this as her first experience as a 
historian. She chronicles her family's love for the Dodgers until the team's 
move to Los Angeles in 1957. When she met her husband in the late 1960s, 
she became a Boston Red Sox fan, even though her father became a New York 
Mets fan; one of her sisters later became a Colorado Rockies fan, and her 
