MLB Hall of Fame game Doubleday Field is a baseball stadium in Cooperstown, 
New York named for Abner Doubleday and located two village blocks from 
the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum. The grounds have been used 
for baseball since 1920, on what was Elihu Phinney's farm. A wooden grandstand 
was built in 1924, later replaced by a steel and concrete grandstand built 
in 1939 by the Works Project Administration.[1] Subsequent expansion has 
increased seating capacity to 9,791 spectators.[2] Each year from 1940 
to 2008, Doubleday Field hosted the Hall of Fame Game. Originally a contest 
between "old-timers" teams, it later became an exhibition game between 
two major league squads. Traditionally, the game was held during the annual 
induction weekend of the nearby Baseball Hall of Fame, but in later years 
it was scheduled in May or June, to accommodate the participating teams' 
travel schedules. As MLB's last remaining in-season exhibition game, its 
results did not count in the official standings, and substitute players 
were generally used to avoid injury to starters. The curiosity factor of 
two teams from different leagues playing each other in this game outside 
of a World Series or spring training situation was eventually removed in 
1997 with the launch of interleague play, further reducing the game's cachet. 
On January 29, 2008, Major League Baseball announced that the final Hall 
of Fame Game would be played on June 16, 2008 between the Chicago Cubs 
and San Diego Padres, citing "the inherent challenges" of scheduling teams 
in the modern day as the reason for ending the annual contest.[3] However, 
the contest was canceled on account of rain.[4] In November 2008, the Hall 
of Fame and the MLB Players Alumni Association announced the creation of 
the Hall of Fame Classic, an exhibition game involving Hall of Famers and 
other retired MLB players to be played on Father's Day weekend, and in 
recent years on the Saturday before Memorial Day. The inaugural Hall of 
Fame Classic was played on Sunday, June 21, 2009.[5] The Cooperstown Classic 
was an International League regular season game played in honor of the 
125th anniversary of the league in 2008. The game was held on a Sunday 
afternoon in may between the Rochester Red Wings and the Syracuse Chiefs. 
The game was the third of a four-game series in which the Chiefs were the 
home team. The crowd for the game was very respectable and Major League 
Hall of Fame member Carlton Fisk threw out the first pitch. The game was 
postponed after the second inning after a rain delay in which Syracuse 
lead 1-0 and went on to win the following day in its completion at Alliance 
Bank Stadium. In an attempt to give the fans another game, the Cooperstown 
Classic Two was played on a Sunday in June 2009. This game was played between 
the Pawtucket Red Sox and the home team Syracuse Chiefs. The game was played 
in full with the Red Sox winning 15-3. This game was not played after that 
but many have expressed interest in it after the demise of the MLB Hall 
Of Fame Game in 2008. Doubleday Field is used primarily for amateur and 
American Legion ball; The Legends of Baseball rents out Doubleday for three 
weeks over the summer. The Cooperstown Hawkeyes of the Perfect Game Collegiate 
Baseball League use the field during the summer, while Play at the Plate 
Baseball also has an annual event at Doubleday Field every September. No 
professional team has ever called the stadium home, although in 1996 the 
Northeast League considered placing a franchise in Cooperstown; this idea 
was rejected because Doubleday Field has no lights, a necessity for a team 
in a pro league. Also, some felt that Cooperstown should be the home of 
all baseball, and not just one team. However, the New York–Penn League 
has played an annual regular-season game at Doubleday Field since 1991, 
with the team based in nearby Oneonta serving as the home team through 
2009. (The team was known as the Oneonta Yankees until 1999, when they 
switched affiliations to become the Oneonta Tigers in 1999. The franchise 
moved to Connecticut in 2010, but has continued to host the Cooperstown 
game.) Coordinates: 42°41′57.4″N 74°55′36″W﻿ / ﻿42.699278°N 74.92667°W﻿ 
