Double-A (or Class AA) is the second highest level of play in Minor League 
Baseball (MiLB) in the United States after Triple-A. There are thirty Double-A 
teams in three leagues at this classification: Eastern League, Southern 
League, and the Texas League.[1] The Double-A classification usually hosts 
developing players that have been part of professional baseball for only 
a couple of years. These players can get to the Double-A level by earning 
a promotion from any of the Single-A or Rookie leagues.[2] Players often 
advance directly to the majors from this level, as the level of competition 
is higher. Because they are still advancing in their careers, the average 
talent level of Double-A may be higher than in Triple-A, which has minor 
and major league veterans who have been in the minor league system for 
a longer period of time and may have stagnated.[3] A small handful of players 
might be placed in Double-A to start, usually veterans from foreign leagues 
or top prospects out of college. The step up to the Double-A level can 
be one of the hardest promotions for such players because it is the level 
at which pitchers need to have a good off-speed pitch in their repertoire. 
In addition, it is the level where fastball-only hitters need to learn 
how to hit off-speed pitches, or their hopes of advancing to the majors 
will diminish.[3] Major League teams sometimes send players to play at 
the Double-A level to rehabilitate from injuries.[2] Because players are 
not moving back and forth from the Major Leagues at this level, the rosters 
tend to be more stable.[4] Fans of Double-A teams have a longer amount 
of time to get acquainted with the players, which helps create a better 
relationship between the team and its fans.[4] Unlike the major league 
and the Triple-A level, two of the three Double-A leagues have their season 
divided into two parts, the Eastern League being the exception. One team 
may clinch a spot in the playoffs by winning the division in first half 
of the season. The teams' records are then cleared and another team will 
also clinch a playoff slot during the second half. Wild cards are used 
to fill out the remaining teams. Usually, four teams qualify for the league 
playoffs. This system is used at the Class A level as well.[35][36][37] 
On January 15, 2015, Major League Baseball announced it will use a 20-second 
