In baseball, a double play (denoted as DP in baseball statistics) is the 
act of making two outs during the same continuous play. Double plays are 
relatively common, as they can occur any time there is at least one baserunner 
and less than two outs. During the 2016 Major League Baseball (MLB) regular 
season, the league average for double plays completed by each team during 
the course of a 162-game season was 145[1] – nearly one per game by each 
team. The simplest scenario for a double play is a runner on first base 
with less than two outs. In that context, four example double plays are: 
The force double play is the most commonly seen double play, however double 
plays can occur in many ways in addition to the noted examples, and can 
involve many combinations of defensive players or even special circumstances 
(for example, interference). Per standard baseball positions, the examples 
given above would be recorded, respectively, as: Double plays that are 
initiated by a batter hitting a ground ball are recorded in baseball statistics 
as GIDP (grounded into double play) – this statistic has been tracked since 
1933 in the National League and since 1939 in the American League.[3] Highly 
desirable to the fielding team and highly undesirable to the batting team, 
a double play can prove critical to the outcome of a specific game. The 
fielding team is likely to change pitch selection and defensive alignment 
to try and get a batter to ground into a force double play. Pitchers may 
throw pitches more likely to be hit as a ground ball – such as a sinker 
– while fielders can be positioned to make a ground ball more likely to 
be turned into a double play. Likewise, the batting team may take action 
– such as a hit and run play – to reduce the chance of grounding into a 
force double play. In baseball slang, making a double play is referred 
to as "turning two" or a "twin killing". Double plays are also known as 
"the pitcher's best friend" because they disrupt offense more than any 
other play, except for the rare triple play. A force double play made on 
a ground ball hit to the third baseman, who throws to the second baseman, 
who then throws to the first baseman, is referred to as an "around the 
horn" double play. A "strike 'em out, throw 'em out" double play occurs 
when a base runner is caught stealing immediately after the batter strikes 
out. The ability to "make the pivot" on a force double play – receiving 
a throw from the third base side, then quickly turning and throwing to 
first base – is a key skill for a second baseman. The most famous double 
play trio – although they never set any records – were Joe Tinker, Johnny 
Evers and Frank Chance, who played shortstop, second baseman and first 
baseman, respectively, for the Chicago Cubs between 1902 and 1912.[4] Their 
double play against the New York Giants in a 1910 game inspired Giants 
fan Franklin Pierce Adams to write the short poem Baseball's Sad Lexicon, 
otherwise known as Tinker to Evers to Chance, which immortalized the trio.[5] 
All three players were part of the Cubs team that won the National League 
pennant in 1906, 1907, 1908, and 1910, and the World Series in 1907 and 
1908, turning 491 double plays on the way.[6] They were elected to the 
National Baseball Hall of Fame in 1946.[5] [19] Jim Rice: 36 (Boston Red 
