In baseball, the double switch is a type of player substitution, usually 
performed by a team while playing defense. The double switch is typically 
used to make a pitching substitution, while simultaneously placing the 
incoming pitcher in a more favorable spot in the batting order than was 
occupied by the outgoing pitcher. (On the assumption that the pitcher will 
be a poor hitter, the incoming pitcher will generally take the spot in 
the batting order of a position player who has recently been put out, so 
as to avoid the pitcher's making a plate appearance in the next couple 
of innings.) To perform a double switch (or any other substitution), the 
ball must be dead.[1]:Rule 3.03 Since the batting order can be changed 
only as a result of a player substitution,[Note 1] while the defensive 
arrangement may be changed freely (among players currently in the game), 
the double switch typically takes the following form: In the short term, 
the lineup is strengthened because a poor-hitting pitcher will not make 
a plate appearance soon. The disadvantage is that a position player must 
be removed from play and replaced by another, often inferior, position 
player. The advantage of the double switch over pinch hitting is that it 
uses up fewer players. If a relief pitcher is brought in before the at-bat, 
then the manager can substitute a pinch-hitter for him. However, this would 
require a new pitcher for the next half-inning. By using a double switch, 
an incoming pitcher can be left in the game for a substantial period before 
his turn in the batting lineup arrives, no matter what the previous batting 
order was. While the double switch plays an important role in the National 
League, the designated hitter (DH) rule has effectively eliminated the 
advantages of the double switch in the games using American League rules—so 
the double switch is rarely used in AL games.[2] The designated hitter's 
role is to bat in the pitcher's spot in the lineup.[1]:Rule 6.10(b) Major 
League rules do not allow a multiple substitution involving a DH to alter 
the lineup position of the DH.[1]:Rule 6.10(b) Although uncommon, it is 
possible to forgo the DH privilege (e.g. if the DH becomes a position player, 
usually due to injury to another player), and then utilize the double switch 
later with that player. It can also be used by an AL team playing on the 
road during interleague play or the World Series, because MLB rules call 
for the rules of the home team to be used when teams from different leagues 
meet (so there is no DH when the NL team is the home team). When the team 
is up to bat, a manager can get the same effect as a double switch by leaving 
in the player who has pinch-hit for the pitcher, and replacing another 
player in the lineup who has made the last out of the inning with a new 
pitcher. This will take the following form: A double switch has infrequently 
resulted in a team batting out of turn because the lineup card was not 
updated to reflect the change, either because the umpires were not informed 
