Douglas Andrew Mientkiewicz (/mɪntˈkeɪvɪtʃ/ mint-KAY-vich; born June 19, 
1974) is an American retired professional baseball first baseman. He bats 
left-handed and throws right-handed. He is one of five American players 
to win both an Olympic gold medal and a World Series championship. He currently 
manages the Chattanooga Lookouts, the Minnesota Twins' Double-A affiliate. 
Mientkiewicz attended Westminster Christian School in Palmetto Bay, Florida, 
where he was a teammate of Alex Rodriguez.[1] Upon graduation, he was drafted 
by the Toronto Blue Jays in the twelfth round of the 1992 Major League 
Baseball Draft, but chose instead to play at Florida State University. 
In his third season with the Seminoles, Mientkiewicz led the team with 
a .371 batting average, 19 home runs and 80 runs batted in. Florida State 
earned their first ACC Championship, and Mientkiewicz was named ACC Atlantic 
I Regional MVP. After the season, Mientkiewicz was drafted by the Minnesota 
Twins in the fifth round of the 1995 Major League Baseball Draft. Mientkiewicz 
was elected to the Florida State University Athletics Hall of Fame in 2005.[2] 
In 1998, he batted .323, with a .432 OBP and .508 slugging percentage in 
509 at-bats for the New Britain Rock Cats to earn Eastern League (Double-A) 
All-Star honors, and a September call-up to the Twins. He batted .200 with 
two RBIs in 25 at-bats for the Twins. Mientkiewicz earned a roster spot 
with the Twins the following spring without having previously played in 
Triple-A, and batted .229 with two home runs and 32 RBIs sharing playing 
time with Ron Coomer at first base in 1999. After a full season in the 
majors, Mientkiewicz spent the 2000 season with the Twins' Triple-A affiliate, 
the Salt Lake Buzz. He was the Triple-A All-Star first baseman, and Pacific 
Coast League All-Star designated hitter. He batted .334, with a .446 OBP 
and .524 slugging percentage, in 485 at-bats for Salt Lake, while both 
scoring and driving in 96 runs. After the Triple-A season, Mientkiewicz 
joined the U.S. Olympic team at the 2000 games in Sydney. Mientkiewicz 
hit the game-winning home run against South Korea in the semi-finals to 
help the U.S. capture its first-ever gold medal in baseball. Following 
the Olympics, he spent three games with the Twins, collecting six hits 
in fourteen at-bats. In 2001, Mientkiewicz was awarded the starting first 
base job for the Twins, and responded by batting .306 with fifteen home 
runs and 74 RBIs (all career highs) while earning the American League Gold 
Glove award for top defensive first baseman. His numbers dipped in 2002; 
however, he reached the post-season for the first time in his career, and 
hit two home runs in the 2002 American League Division Series against the 
Oakland Athletics. The Twins battled the Chicago White Sox and Kansas City 
Royals for the division crown all season long in 2003. Mientkiewicz drew 
the ire of the ChiSox and their fans by suggesting that the All Star Game, 
scheduled to be played at U.S. Cellular Field on July 15, should be moved 
to a different venue after a fan attacked umpire Laz Diaz during an April 
15 game between the White Sox and Royals.[3] Chicago White Sox General 
Manager Kenny Williams shot back that Mientkiewicz should not worry about 
the game’s location because he would not be there.[4] The fans booed Mientkiewicz 
the first time he and the Twins came to U.S. Cellular Field on April 25, 
and cheered White Sox starter Mark Buehrle for hitting Mientkiewicz with 
a pitch during his first at-bat.[5] Following a mid-September three game 
sweep over the White Sox at the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome that gave 
the Twins a 3.5 game lead in the American League Central, Mientkiewicz 
again got himself in the crosshairs by commenting in a postgame television 
interview, "They're done," about his division rivals. The Twins ended up 
winning the division by four games over the ChiSox, but were eliminated 
by the New York Yankees in the 2003 American League Division Series. As 
the trade deadline approached, the 2004 Boston Red Sox found themselves 
8.5 games back of the New York Yankees in the American League East, and 
one game back of the Texas Rangers in the wild card race. With infield 
defense proving to be their achilles heel, they made a four-team trade 
deadline deal on July 31 that landed Mientkiewicz and Montreal Expos shortstop 
Orlando Cabrera with the Boston Red Sox, and sent Justin Jones to the Twins. 
The Red Sox also sent Nomar Garciaparra and Matt Murton to the Chicago 
Cubs, and the Cubs sent Francis Beltrán, Alex Gonzalez and Brendan Harris 
to the Expos as part of this trade. Mientkiewicz and Cabrera proved valuable 
additions to their new franchise as the Red Sox surged to within three 
games of the Yankees by the end of the season, and took the A.L. wild card 
by seven games over the Oakland A's. On August 16, Mientkiewicz made an 
emergency start at second base, a position he had only ever played four 
times in the minor leagues, and never in the majors.[6] Mientkiewicz went 
4-for-10 in the post season, and recorded the out that ended the Curse 
of the Bambino in the 2004 World Series. He did not appear in any of the 
first three games of the 2004 American League Championship Series that 
they lost to the New York Yankees; however, he appeared in all of the final 
four that the Red Sox won in their come-from-behind series win.[7] When 
St. Louis Cardinals shortstop Edgar Rentería grounded back to pitcher Keith 
Foulke, who trotted toward first base and underhanded the ball to Mientkiewicz 
to complete Boston's four game sweep of the World Series, Mientkiewicz 
kept the ball, as dictated by baseball tradition.[8] As Boston had not 
won a World Series in 86 years, the ball symbolized the end of the so-called 
"Curse of the Bambino", and was of considerable interest to memorabilia 
collectors. Controversy resulted when the Red Sox asked for the ball's 
return, and Mientkiewicz refused to give it back. Shortly after his January 
27 trade to the New York Mets, Mientkiewicz and the Red Sox reached an 
agreement that the Red Sox would hold the ball temporarily and could display 
it across New England, along with the World Series trophy. The agreement 
called for Mientkiewicz to get the ball back at the end of 2005 unless 
the ultimate issue of ownership has been otherwise resolved.[9] On November 
30, 2005, lawyers for the Red Sox filed suit in Suffolk Superior Court 
asking the court to place the ball in a secure location until ownership 
was decided. The club's legal team said that Mientkiewicz had gained possession 
of the ball only because he was a Red Sox employee and that the ball remained 
the team's property.[10] On April 23, 2006, it was announced that he had 
reached an agreement with the Red Sox, and the ball would go to the Baseball 
Hall of Fame. Mientkiewicz began the 2005 season as the Mets' everyday 
first baseman, but lost his starting job to prospect Mike Jacobs by the 
end of the season.[11] During the following season with the Kansas City 
Royals, he compiled a .283 batting average and 43 RBIs, his most since 
playing with Minnesota. He was not offered a contract by the Royals, and 
on January 5, 2007, he signed a one-year deal with the New York Yankees.[12] 
On June 2, 2007, Mientkiewicz collided with Mike Lowell of the Boston Red 
Sox while trying to field a throw from shortstop Derek Jeter. He suffered 
a mild concussion and a fractured scaphoid bone in his right wrist and 
was placed on the disabled list.[13] Mientkiewicz ended up missing three 
months of the season, and did not return until September 4.[14] He made 
his first start since the injury on September 16, and went two-for-three 
in the Yankees' 4-3 victory over the Red Sox.[15] For the season, he batted 
.277 with five home runs and 24 RBIs. He made the post season for the fourth 
time in his career, and was hitless in six at-bats. On February 11, 2008, 
Mientkiewicz signed a minor league contract with an invitation to spring 
training with the Pittsburgh Pirates. In his only season in Pittsburgh, 
he batted .277 with two home runs and 30 RBIs mostly backing up Adam LaRoche 
at first. He also made 33 appearances at third base and ten in right field. 
He briefly left the team during the season while his wife, Jodi, had heart 
surgery.[16] On February 26, 2009, Mientkiewicz signed a minor league contract 
with an invitation to spring training with the Los Angeles Dodgers.[17] 
He made the Major League roster as a pinch hitter and appeared in seven 
games for the Dodgers in April before dislocating his shoulder sliding 
into second base and being placed on the 60-day disabled list.[18] After 
a brief rehab stint with the Triple-A Albuquerque Isotopes from July 28 
to August 17, Mientkiewicz rejoined the Dodgers in September, seeing sporadic 
action as a pinch hitter down the stretch. He collected six hits in twenty 
at-bats, only one of which was for extra bases, and had three RBIs. Mientkiewicz 
signed a minor league contract with the Dodgers for the 2010 season, and 
came to camp to compete for the left-handed pinch hitter role. He was offered 
a coaching position with the team when he did not make the club out of 
spring training, but opted instead to keep playing and become a free agent.[19] 
On May 5, 2010, he signed a minor league contract with the Florida Marlins, 
but was released just nine days later after playing four games for the 
Marlins' Triple A affiliate, the New Orleans Zephyrs.[20] Mientkiewicz's 
deal included a one-day out clause for May 16, and the Marlins chose to 
cut him loose before he could exercise it.[21] Following his release, Mientkiewicz 
chose to retire from baseball. After retirement, Mientkiewicz worked as 
an analyst for the 2010 MLB post-season for CBSSports.com. Mientkiewicz 
made his coaching debut in 2012 in the Los Angeles Dodgers organization 
as the hitting coach of the rookie league Ogden Raptors in the Pioneer 
League. 12, he was hired by the Minnesota Twins organization as the Manager 
of the high-Class A Fort Myers Miracle, the team he played for in 1995–96 
to start his baseball career.[22][23] Mientikiewicz got the Miracle off 
to a fast start in 2013 as the team tied a franchise record by winning 
their first 14 games of the season (equaling the mark set in 1995 and tied 
in 2007)[24] and ended April with a Minor League best 21 wins (21-4).[25] 
In October 2014, Mientkiewicz was a finalist to become the manager of the 
Minnesota Twins.[26][27] Ultimately, Paul Molitor was selected as Twins 
manager, and Mientkiewicz managed the Double-A Chattanooga Lookouts in 
