Douglas Leon Eddings (born September 14, 1968) is an umpire in Major League 
Baseball. He came to public attention with a controversial call during 
Game Two of the 2005 American League Championship Series between the Chicago 
White Sox and the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. Eddings started umpiring 
Little League games at 14, and in his early career, worked throughout the 
minor leagues. He started working American League games in 1998, and has 
worked throughout both major leagues since 2000. Prior to the White Sox-Angels 
series, Eddings worked AL Division Series in 2000 and 2002, as well as 
the 2014 National League Wild Card Game and the 2004 MLB All-Star Game. 
He also was the home plate umpire for Cal Ripken Jr.'s final major league 
game on October 6, 2001. He wears uniform number 88. Eddings was the second 
base umpire for the game between the San Francisco Giants and the San Diego 
Padres on August 4, 2007 at San Diego when Barry Bonds tied Hank Aaron 
for first place on Major League Baseball's career home run list by hitting 
his 755th career home run. Eddings is known for his forceful throws when 
giving a new ball to pitcher. Eddings can be seen stepping out of his home 
plate stance and delivering a hard throw straight to the pitcher on the 
mound.[citation needed] In contrast, most umpires hand a new ball to the 
catcher, or lightly toss the baseball to the pitcher. A report in The Hardball 
Times lists Eddings as having called the largest strike zone among all 
Major League umpires in 2011.[1] The call which brought Eddings national 
attention came on October 12, 2005 at U.S. Cellular Field in Chicago. The 
Angels were up one game to none in the ALCS, having won the previous game 
despite reported exhaustion[2] from playing the previous two nights in 
Yankee Stadium and Angel Stadium. Game two was tied 1–1 with the White 
Sox batting in the bottom of the ninth inning; Chicago had recorded two 
outs in the inning. White Sox batter A. J. Pierzynski faced Angels relief 
pitcher Kelvim Escobar, who quickly got two strikes. Pierzynski swung at 
Escobar's third pitch, a splitter which came in very low. Angels catcher 
Josh Paul said after the game, "I caught the ball so I thought the inning 
was over."[3] Eddings later said the ball had not been legally caught, 
but made no audible call that the ball hit the ground.[4] Not hearing himself 
called out, Pierzynski took a couple of steps toward the dugout, then turned 
and ran to first base while most of the Angels were walking off the field. 
A pinch-runner, Pablo Ozuna, replaced Pierzynski and stole second base. 
Ozuna scored on a base hit by third baseman Joe Crede for the winning run. 
The controversy surrounding the play concerns both whether Eddings' ruling 
that the ball hit the ground was correct, and the unclear mechanic for 
signaling the ruling. Eddings did not indicate no-catch signals during 
the game. In fact, in the second inning of the same game, Eddings had ruled 
no catch on a third strike to Garret Anderson of the Angels, but the White 
Sox were not aware of the ruling until Eddings called Anderson out as he 
entered the dugout.[3] At the time, professional umpiring mechanics did 
not dictate a specific no-catch signal or a "no catch" verbalization after 
an uncaught third strike. A mechanic has subsequently been added. According 
to umpire supervisor Rich Reiker, the replays showed "there was definitely 
a change in direction there" indicating the ball touched the ground. He 
felt, at best, the replay was inconclusive. After the game, Eddings explained 
his actions: "My interpretation is that was my 'strike three' mechanic, 
when it's a swinging strike. If you watch, that's what I do the whole entire 
game. ... I did not say 'No catch.' If you watch the play, you do watch 
me — as I'm making the mechanic, I'm watching Josh Paul, and so I'm seeing 
what he's going to do. I'm looking directly at him while I'm watching Josh 
Paul. That's when Pierzynski ran to first base."[5] The White Sox went 
on to win the next three games of the series and advance to their first 
World Series since 1959. The White Sox then won the World Series in a four-game 
