Douglas Robert Melvin (born August 8, 1952 [1]) is a Canadian front-office 
executive in Major League Baseball who served as the general manager of 
the Texas Rangers and Milwaukee Brewers of the American League and National 
League[2] He held the position with Milwaukee from 2002 to 2015. He is 
currently a senior advisor for the Milwaukee Brewers. A former minor-league 
pitcher who played in the Pittsburgh Pirates and New York Yankees farm 
systems from 1972–78, Melvin began his front office career with the Yankees 
as an assistant scouting director, then spent nearly a decade (1987–94) 
as assistant general manager and director of player development of the 
Baltimore Orioles. In his first general manager posting, with the Texas 
Rangers from 1994–2001, the Rangers qualified for the postseason three 
times—the only times the franchise had done so to that point in its history. 
Melvin spent the 2002 season as a consultant for the Boston Red Sox before 
taking the reins in Milwaukee. On September 26, 2002, Melvin became general 
manager of the Milwaukee Brewers. In 2007, he ended the franchise's 15-year 
streak of losing seasons when the Brewers finished above .500, although 
a late-season slide eliminated them from the NL Central and wild-card races. 
In 2008, Melvin moved the Brewers into Wild Card and, briefly, NL Central 
contention with his bold, mid-season pickup of pitcher CC Sabathia, but 
another late-season losing streak, which left the Brewers out of contention 
for their division title and tied for the NL Wild Card, caused Melvin and 
club owner Mark Attanasio to fire manager Ned Yost with 12 games left in 
the regular season. Melvin and Attanasio named the Brewers' third base 
coach Dale Sveum the interim manager for the regular season's final 12 
games, and the Brewers clinched the National League Wild Card on the last 
day of the season, giving the team its first playoff berth since 1982. 
After the 2010 season, Melvin made three separate transactions that helped 
the Brewers get to the playoffs in 2011. On December 6, 2010, he acquired 
starting pitcher, Shaun Marcum. On December 19, Zack Greinke, who won the 
Cy Young Award in 2009, was acquired along with shortstop Yuniesky Betancourt. 
On March 27, 2011, Melvin acquired outfielder Nyjer Morgan. In the same 
offseason, Melvin released three of the team's most ineffective starters 
in Jeff Suppan, Dave Bush, and Doug Davis. In 2011, the Brewers won the 
most games ever in franchise history with 96 victories. In so doing, the 
Brewers continued to do well offensively with stars Prince Fielder and 
Ryan Braun as well as Nyjer Morgan. Along with starters Yovani Gallardo, 
Randy Wolf, Chris Narveson,the newly acquired Greinke and Marcum pitched 
considerably more victories than the Brewers' starting pitchers the year 
before. The Brewers bullpen was also stellar, led by closer John Axford, 
who set two new franchise records with most consecutive converted saves 
(42) and most saves in a season (46). Furthermore, Melvin added Francisco 
Rodriguez before the mid-season 2011 trading deadline; Rodriguez would 
repeatedly pitch in the 8th inning to set up save opportunities for Axford. 
Along with Francisco Rodriguez, Melvin obtained veteran infielder, Jerry 
Hairston Jr., who would provide timely hitting to bolster an already-solid 
Milwaukee Brewer offense. As a result, the Milwaukee Brewers would win 
their division for only the second time in their history and make their 
fourth playoff appearance in 2011. With Nyjer Morgan's game-winning hit 
against the Arizona Diamondbacks in a dramatic 10th inning, the Brewers 
won the divisional playoff series on October 7, 2011. In the National League 
Championship Series, the Brewers would eventually lose to their divisional 
foe, the St. Louis Cardinals in six games. On August 11, 2015, Melvin transitioned 
to an advisory role, leaving his GM position. Melvin is currently the President 
of Baseball Operations with the Milwaukee Brewers after leaving his GM 
role.[3] In 1996, Melvin received The Sporting News Executive of the Year 
Award, as general manager of the Rangers. In 2011, as general manager of 
the Brewers, Melvin was named by Baseball America as its Major League Executive 
of the Year.[4] In 2012 Melvin was inducted into the Canadian Baseball 
