Douglas Anthony Mirabelli (born October 18, 1970) is a former Major League 
Baseball catcher. He played for the San Francisco Giants (1996–2000), Texas 
Rangers (2001), Boston Red Sox (2001–2005), and San Diego Padres (2006) 
before returning to the Red Sox (2006–2007) to end his eleven-year career. 
He batted and threw right-handed. Mirabelli was a career .231 hitter with 
58 home runs and 206 RBI in 566 games. While with the Red Sox, he was well 
known as the personal catcher for knuckleballer Tim Wakefield. He was part 
of the Red Sox' World Series championship teams in 2004 and 2007. After 
leading Valley High School in his hometown of Las Vegas to two state baseball 
titles, Mirabelli was originally selected by the Detroit Tigers in the 
6th Round (159th overall) of the 1989 Major League Baseball amateur draft, 
but did not sign.[1] Instead, Mirabelli chose to attend Wichita State University. 
In 1992, Mirabelli was selected by the San Francisco Giants in the 5th 
round (131st overall) of the Major League Baseball amateur draft again. 
He signed a contract on June 24, 1992. Mirabelli began his minor league 
career in 1992 with the San Jose Giants in the California League. Over 
the next four seasons, he also spent time with the Giants' AA club; the 
Shreveport Captains and their AAA team; the Phoenix Firebirds. In 1996, 
Mirabelli started the year in AA, putting together an impressive season 
hitting .295 with 21 home runs and 70 RBI, earning a promotion to AAA. 
He bounced back to the AA level before earning a promotion to the major 
leagues in August of that year. Mirabelli made his major league debut on 
August 23, 1996 against the Philadelphia Phillies. In the late 1990s, the 
Giants teams often utilized a platoon at the catcher position, relying 
on different veterans to split time for most of the season. When Mirabelli 
reached the majors, he saw limited time and spent most of his season in 
AAA with Phoenix. In 1999, he finally made the promotion to the majors 
permanent when he split time with veterans Brent Mayne and Scott Servais. 
The following season, Mirabelli platooned with Bobby Estalella, but neither 
catcher hit above .230 or played well enough to earn the starting job. 
During spring training of 2001, the Giants signed veteran catcher Benito 
Santiago, who took over the starting role. Mirabelli's contract was sold 
to the Texas Rangers, who made him the backup to All-Star catcher Iván 
Rodríguez. Mirabelli struggled, barely hitting above .100. After Boston 
Red Sox catcher Jason Varitek's season was ended by a broken left elbow 
on June 7, 2001, the Red Sox acquired Mirabelli on June 12 in a trade with 
the Texas Rangers and he split time with Scott Hatteberg for the rest of 
the season. Mirabelli hit .270 with 9 home runs for the Red Sox in 2001. 
After the season, Hatteberg signed as a free agent with the Oakland Athletics 
and, in 2002, Mirabelli found himself as the designated catcher for veterans 
Darren Oliver and Frank Castillo.[2] However, neither one lasted in the 
rotation and Mirabelli soon found himself partnered with knuckleballer 
Tim Wakefield. On July 23, 2002 Wakefield returned to the starting rotation 
after serving as a reliever for most of the season; Mirabelli made the 
start at catcher. The partnership seemed to work as Wakefield went 8–2 
down the stretch with Mirabelli catching for him each time. Over the next 
three seasons, Wakefield and Mirabelli became an effective battery. As 
Wakefield solidified himself in the starting rotation, Mirabelli made almost 
every start for him as well as spot starts in relief of Varitek. Offensively, 
Mirabelli provided an occasional spark; he would become the only player 
in Major League Baseball history to hit six or more home runs in six consecutive 
seasons of fewer than 200 at-bats (from 2001 to 2006). Mirabelli would 
be the starting catcher in Game 1 of the 2004 World Series as Wakefield 
was named the starting pitcher. He batted 1-for-3 with a run scored as 
the Red Sox went on to win 11-9 and eventually swept the St. Louis Cardinals. 
In 2005, Mirabelli hit just .228 and struck out in more than a third of 
his at bats. He also missed nearly a month due to a left wrist injury. 
Following the season, the Red Sox traded Mirabelli to the San Diego Padres 
for second baseman Mark Loretta. For the first time in his major league 
career, Mirabelli was going to be given a chance to be a starting catcher. 
However, in early February, General Manager Kevin Towers decided to sign 
veteran catcher Mike Piazza and installed him as the starter instead. Mirabelli 
made just a handful of starts, hitting .182 with no RBI through April. 
Upset over Piazza's arrival and his subsequent lack of playing time, Mirabelli 
asked Towers to work out a deal that would send him back to Boston.[3] 
Mirabelli was reacquired by the Red Sox on May 1, 2006, in exchange for 
catcher Josh Bard, setup man Cla Meredith, and $100,000 cash. This reacquisition 
occurred because Bard had trouble catching Tim Wakefield's knuckleball, 
committing 10 passed balls in just 7 games. The day the trade occurred, 
the Red Sox were to play their first game of the year against their rivals, 
the New York Yankees, at Fenway Park, and Wakefield was scheduled to start. 
It took a private jet and a Massachusetts State Police escort to get Mirabelli 
to the field in time. His plane from San Diego touched down at Logan Airport 
at 6:48 pm, he arrived at Fenway Park at 7:00 pm, and took his place behind 
the plate just in time for Wakefield's opening pitch at 7:13 pm. In an 
effort to conserve every second possible, the Red Sox sent a uniform along 
with the police escort for Mirabelli to change into while en route to Fenway 
Park from the airport. A special glove (which is actually a woman's softball 
catcher's mitt) which Mirabelli had used in previous years to catch Wakefield 
had been left in Boston by Josh Bard for Mirabelli. Soon after, the Yankees 
admitted they had tried to acquire Mirabelli from the Padres in an attempt 
to keep him from the Red Sox [1]. On April 25, 2007, while Boston was visiting 
the Baltimore Orioles in the teams' first match up of the season, a controversy 
arose when Orioles' play-by-play announcer Gary Thorne alleged during the 
fifth inning of his telecast that Mirabelli had told him years ago that 
Curt Schilling's bloody sock from the Red Sox's 2004 championship run was 
only a publicity stunt. "... That famous red stocking that he wore when 
they finally won, the blood on his stocking, nah. It was painted. Doug 
Mirabelli confessed up to it after. It was all for PR," said Thorne.[4] 
Thorne's comments were first reported on The Joy of Sox, a Red Sox blog.[5] 
Mirabelli initially vehemently denied talking about the incident to Thorne, 
and the comments by both individuals rekindled a controversy on a national 
level which had been dormant for years. Although Red Sox management refused 
to comment on the situation, Mirabelli faced the media the following day 
to try to quell a situation that had clearly gotten out of hand. While 
also making a point to affirm that the substance on Schilling's sock was 
undoubtedly his own blood, Mirabelli did acknowledge that there was likely 
a misunderstanding in a past dialogue with Thorne after the commentator 
had also admitted as much.[6] Schilling's bloody sock now resides in the 
Baseball Hall of Fame. Mirabelli hit under .200 for the rest of the season 
and battled an ankle injury late in the year; Wakefield pitched just over 
.500 before suffering an injury in July and missing almost two months. 
Mirabelli re-signed with the Red Sox for the 2007 season, but his offense 
did not improve as he hit just .202 and once again battled various leg 
injuries late in the year. In January 2008, Mirabelli agreed in principle 
to a one-year contract to return to the Red Sox for the 2008 season. The 
deal was reported to have a base salary of $550,000 with incentives.[7] 
However, on March 13, 2008, Mirabelli was released by the Red Sox when 
the team elected to use Kevin Cash as its backup catcher.[8] On January 
5, 2009, Mirabelli was named the new head baseball coach at St. Francis 
High School in Traverse City, Michigan.[9] On September 9, 2015, Mirabelli 
was named Florida Gators softball volunteer assistant coach.[10] Mirabelli 
and his wife Kristin have two daughters, Molly and Emma, and one son, Joseph. 
He graduated from Valley High School in Las Vegas, Nevada in 1989. As of 
March 2009, Mirabelli works as a realtor for Coldwell Banker Schmidt Realtors 
