Douglas L. Allison (July 12, 1846 – December 19, 1916) was an American 
professional baseball player. He played as a catcher for the original Cincinnati 
Red Stockings, the first fully professional baseball team. Allison was 
one of the first catchers to stand directly behind the batter, as a means 
to prevent baserunners from stealing bases.[1] He was considered a specialist, 
at a time when some of the better batsmen who manned the position normally 
rested, or substituted at other fielding positions. Allison was the earliest 
known player to have used a glove, when he donned buckskin mittens to protect 
his hands in 1870.[2] His brother Art Allison also played in the Major 
Leagues. Not quite 22 years old, he moved to Cincinnati for the 1868 season 
and played for the Cincinnati Red Stockings managed by Harry Wright. Open 
professionalism was one year away but the long move from Philadelphia, 
where he worked as a bricklayer,[3] suggests that Allison was somehow compensated 
by club members, if not by the club. Cincinnati fielded a strong team that 
year, with five of the famous team already in place. Allison was a defensive 
specialist, his job was simply to catch the ball. First, he caught for 
Asa Brainard plus he had to contend with pop ups and tips off the bat, 
a fielder could put the batter out by a catch on the first bounce at that 
time. Most catchers of his era stood twenty to twenty-five feet behind 
the batter.[1] His technique of moving closer to the batter proved effective 
in curtailing baserunners from stealing bases.[1] In the 1860s, it was 
common for teams to score fifty or sixty runs a game.[1] As the technique 
of moving closer to the batter became more widespread among other catchers, 
run production began to plummet helping usher in what became known as the 
Dead-ball era.[1] When the National Association of Base Ball Players (NABBP) 
permitted professionalism, the Red Stockings hired five incumbents including 
Allison and five new men to complete its roster, the first team that consisted 
of salaried players. A few of the others had previously played some catcher 
(all played at the six infield positions in 1868), but Allison filled the 
role in almost every game. Cincinnati toured the continent undefeated in 
1869 and may have been the strongest team in 1870, but the club dropped 
professional base ball after the second season. Harry Wright was hired 
to organize a new team in Boston, where he signed three teammates for 1871. 
The other five regulars including Allison signed with Nick Young's Washington 
Olympics, an established club that also joined the new, entirely professional 
National Association (NA). The five former Red Stockings led the Olympics 
to a respectable finish in the inaugural NA season. Later, Doug Allison 
played in the Major Leagues with the Troy Haymakers in 1872, the Brooklyn 
Eckfords in 1872, the Elizabeth Resolutes in 1873, the New York Mutuals 
from 1873 to 1874, the Hartford Dark Blues from 1875 to 1877, the Providence 
Grays from 1878 to 1879, and one game with the Baltimore Orioles of the 
American Association in 1883. Allison was reported playing for a post office 
team in 1882. Thirty-four years later he died in Washington, DC at age 
70, en route to his job at the Post Office Department.[3] He is buried 
