Robert Douglas Flynn, Jr. (born April 18, 1951) is a former Major League 
Baseball infielder. He was one of the players sent to the New York Mets 
in exchange for Tom Seaver. Flynn was born and raised in Lexington, Kentucky. 
He attended Bryan Station High School, where he starred in baseball, basketball 
and football, playing quarterback on a 12-1 team. He went to the University 
of Kentucky on a combination baseball-basketball scholarship. While attending 
Kentucky, Flynn and some friends went to a Cincinnati Reds tryout camp. 
Flynn made the cut. After one more tryout camp and yet another audition 
at Riverfront Stadium, the Reds signed him as an amateur free agent in 
1971.[1] Flynn batted .245 with six home runs and 113 runs batted in over 
three seasons in the Reds' farm system. Still, his glove impressed Reds 
manager Sparky Anderson.[2] Despite having played shortstop predominantly 
in the minors, Flynn went into Spring training 1975 battling Darrell Chaney, 
Dan Driessen and John Vukovich for the open third base job. He made the 
team, but as a utility infielder, and made his major league debut on April 
9 against the Los Angeles Dodgers at short.[3] Starting the following night, 
Flynn scored his first major league run after reaching on a force play 
on the fourth inning. Three innings later, he chased Dodgers starter Rick 
Rhoden out of the game with his first career hit, a single to center.[4] 
Flynn batted just .172 with no home runs or RBIs in April. With Reds third 
basemen batting a combined .162, Anderson shifted perennial All-Star and 
former National League MVP Pete Rose to third, with George Foster taking 
over in left.[5] The shift worked, as the team won 108 games that season 
to storm to a first-place finish in the National League West by twenty 
games over the Dodgers. The reduced role also seemed to do Flynn's bat 
some good. Over the rest of the season, Flynn batted .296 with twenty RBI. 
He hit his first major league home run on May 21 against the New York Mets, 
a game in which Tom Seaver was the losing pitcher.[6] Flynn saw semi-regular 
action early in the 1976 season due to a back injury to Joe Morgan.[7] 
During a nine-game stretch in June, Flynn batted .382. He ended up appearing 
in 93 games for the "Big Red Machine", as they became affectionately called, 
and batted .283 with one home run and twenty RBIs. The Reds won the 1975 
and 1976 World Series. Flynn's only postseason appearance came as a defensive 
replacement in the 1976 National League Championship Series against the 
Philadelphia Phillies.[8] Flynn's role with the Reds decreased drastically 
in 1977. Through June 12, he appeared in 36 games, mostly as a late inning 
defensive replacement for Rose at third. Meanwhile, Tom Seaver was in a 
contract dispute with New York Mets chairman M. Donald Grant.[9] On Wednesday, 
June 15, 1977 Grant traded Seaver to the Cincinnati Reds for Steve Henderson, 
Dan Norman, Pat Zachry and Flynn.[10] Flynn's playing time increased substantially 
upon his arrival in New York City, even though he batted just .191 with 
no home runs and fourteen RBIs. Most of his playing time came at short, 
but he spent time at second base as well. Following the season, the Mets 
reacquired formed number one overall draft pick Tim Foli to play short. 
Just as pitchers and catchers were reporting to Spring training, the Mets 
sold the contract of second baseman Félix Millán to the Taiyo Whales of 
Nippon Professional Baseball[11] with the intention of using Flynn at second. 
He began the season at second, but shifted to short when Foli injured his 
knee at the end of April,[12] and returned there periodically throughout 
the remainder of the season. All told, he logged 430 innings at short, 
committing just seven errors for a .968 fielding percentage. At second, 
he logged the leagues second best fielding percentage (behind the Montreal 
Expos' Dave Cash) at .986. With the bat, Flynn produced a modest .237 batting 
average with no home runs and 36 RBIs in the eighth spot of manager Joe 
Torre's batting order, however, he tied Lenny Randle and Joel Youngblood 
for the team lead with eight triples. Flynn's first home run as a Met was 
a three run shot off future Hall of Famer Gaylord Perry on May 1, 1979. 
It was also his only career four RBI game.[13] On June 12, just three days 
shy of the second anniversary of the "Midnight Massacre", Flynn hit his 
second home run, an inside-the-park three run homer, against the Reds to 
cap off a 12-6 Mets victory.[14] Flynn seemed to be at his best against 
his former club. A week earlier, he doubled in the tying run, and later 
scored the go-ahead run in the Mets' 5-3 win over Cincinnati,[15] and produced 
a .310 batting average with seven RBIs against Reds pitching. All told, 
1979 was Flynn's best offensive season, as he batted .243 with career highs 
in home runs (4) and RBIs (61). He also began to emerge as one of the better 
fielding second basemen in the National League. He led the league in putouts 
and double plays turned, and was third in the league with a .983 fielding 
percentage. On August 5, 1980, Flynn tied a major league record with three 
triples in one game.[16] He also scored all three times. For the week, 
he batted .419 (13 for 31) with five runs scored and five RBIs to be named 
NL Player of the Week. Still, Flynn's greatest contribution to his club 
was with his glove. His .991 fielding percentage was tops in the league, 
and earned him the National League Gold Glove Award at second base. He 
was just the third Met ever to receive this honor (Tommie Agee in 1970 
and Bud Harrelson in 1971 being the first two). Flynn signed a new five-year 
contract before the 1981 season,[17] but that did not prevent it from being 
his last season as a Met. With top prospect Wally Backman ready to make 
the jump to the majors, the Mets traded Flynn to the Texas Rangers with 
Dan Boitano for Jim Kern at the end of the season.[18] Kern was then packaged 
with Greg Harris and Alex Treviño for George Foster from the Cincinnati 
Reds. Just prior to the start of the 1982 season, the Rangers traded incumbent 
second baseman Bump Wills to the Chicago Cubs, opening the starting job 
for Flynn. As the season wore on, rookie prospect Mike Richardt began getting 
the bulk of the playing time at second with Flynn splitting his time between 
second and short. The Montreal Expos had used seven different players at 
second base, and were desperate need of an upgrade at that position when 
they purchased Flynn's contract from Texas on August 2.[19] He held the 
starting second base job with the Expos through 1984. At the 1984 Winter 
meetings, the Expos acquired third baseman Vance Law from the Chicago White 
Sox. Law had also played some second and was a shortstop in the minors. 
The intention was to convert him into a second baseman in Montreal.[20] 
Once the experiment proved successful, the Expos placed Flynn on waivers. 
Though the Houston Astros expressed interest,[21] he ended up signing with 
the Detroit Tigers for the remainder of the 1985 season.[22] He retired 
from baseball when the Tigers released him in Spring training the following 
season. Flynn's father, Bobby, was a second baseman in the Brooklyn Dodgers' 
organization in 1948, and later played semi-pro ball with the Lexington 
Hustlers. While his son was coming up through the Reds' minor league system, 
Bobby was also climbing politically, serving as Kentucky state senator. 
His mother also played second base in fast-pitch softball for years. After 
retirement from baseball, Flynn spent a couple of years working in the 
Mets minor league system. He then headed up the state of Kentucky's anti-drug 
program. His wife of 31 years, Olga, is a former Philadelphia Eagles cheerleader 
whom he was set up with by Pete Rose.[23] They were married in February 
1982 and they currently live in Lexington, Kentucky. Doug has been a banking 
officer for Central Bank, a locally owned, independent bank, since 1998.[24] 
In 1981, Flynn began singing country music songs at Cody's, a club at Sixth 
Avenue and 16th Street in Manhattan on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday nights.[25] 
When baseball went on strike in 1981, Flynn traveled a bit with the Oak 
Ridge Boys and sang on tour with them. He still loves to sing and pairs 
up with former Reds teammate Johnny Bench at their successful golf tournament 
every year on cabaret night.[26] He still attends both New York Mets and 
Cincinnati Reds reunion events including serving as the Chairman of the 
Reds Fantasy Camp and guest for the Mets camp. In early 2010, he faced 
a bout with thyroid cancer. '"They took my thyroid out, and it did a little 
damage to my voice box, but I'm doing good", Flynn said later that year, 
his voice giving away little hint of what's happened.'[27] Beginning in 
2013, Flynn worked as a part-time radio broadcaster for the Cincinnati 
Reds, filling in for several games a year when one of their regular complement 
of broadcasters had some time off.[28] He also appears periodically on 
