Doug Pappas (1961–2004) was a baseball writer and researcher who was considered 
the foremost expert on the business of baseball. Pappas was a graduate 
of the University of Chicago (1982) and the University of Michigan Law 
School (1985), where he had been Executive Note Editor of the Michigan 
Law Review. Pappas wrote prolifically about baseball economics, analyzing 
and debunking what he perceived as false information spread by Major League 
Baseball and sympathetic media outlets. He railed against claims by Commissioner 
Bud Selig that the league's teams were in dire financial straits, using 
the league's own data to refute the claims.[1] Pappas conducted exhaustive 
research on player salaries, compiling a database from a variety of sources. 
His analytical work focused on measuring the performance of a team's front 
office with a metric called Marginal Wins/Marginal Payroll. This work inspired 
and informed major league general managers like Billy Beane, and formed 
the foundation of what would later come to be known as "Moneyball." He 
was a regular contributor to Baseball Prospectus from 2001 to 2004 and 
a listed contributor to the 4th and 5th editions of Total Baseball.[2][3] 
Pappas was also very active within the Society for American Baseball Research, 
in 1994 founding and then chairing the SABR Business of Baseball committee 
and serving as the organization's parliamentarian. After his death, SABR 
renamed its USA Today award for the best paper at its annual convention 
in honor of Pappas: The Doug Pappas Research Award recognizes the best 
oral research presentation at the Annual Convention. Before 2004 it was 
known as The USA Today Sports Weekly Award; the name was changed to honor 
the late Doug Pappas. USA Today Sports Weekly continues to sponsor both 
it and the companion award for the best poster presentation. In eulogizing 
Pappas, Neal Traven of SABR wrote: He was a brilliant researcher, blessed 
with the capacity to digest and describe great volumes of material. Most 
SABR research stops there, but Doug continued on, to analyze and make sense 
of what he observed, and to synthesize his insights into recommendations 
for resolving the problems he addressed. He was a splendid and generous 
communicator, writing with clarity and passion, eager to share resources 
and ideas with all who sought him out, always as ready to examine his own 
assumptions as he was to challenge the assumptions of others. Doug detested 
pretension and artifice – he certainly knew that the clothes do not make 
the man. If he’s somehow observing us, he’s laughing about us wearing suits 
and ties on this occasion. At the same time, he reveled in the unabashed 
quirkiness and fakery he observed on his frequent drives along America’s 
highways and byways. Doug didn’t suffer fools gladly, nor could he muster 
up sympathy for those who would willfully and deliberately mislead and 
misrepresent. His college friend Veronica Drake speaks of his mastery of 
the Socratic method (as taught at the University of Chicago), but I’d call 
his approach one of reductio ad absurdum … following the premises of, say, 
Bud Selig to their logical conclusion, and then simply noting the absurdity 
and fallacy of that outcome. His abiding enthusiasm for baseball and for 
the American roadside were amply illustrated in the public persona of his 
writings and his web presence. Less obvious, but just as deeply held and 
as integral to his being, were his commitment to social justice and progressive 
politics, and his love of rock-and-roll music.[4] In addition to his baseball 
fandom, Pappas was a lawyer and a photography enthusiast. Pappas was an 
attorney with [Mintz & Gold][1], where his practice concentrated on general 
civil and commercial litigation. His unexpected death came on a photographic 
excursion to Big Bend National Park in May 2004, where he was overcome 
by heat prostration. After his death, his mother donated more than 500 
of his books along with 34 of his photograph albums, and approximately 
3,700 of his postcards related to transportation to the University of Michigan's 
Transportation History Collection of the Special Collections Library.[5] 
