Drury University, formerly Drury College and originally Springfield College, 
is a private liberal arts college in Springfield, Missouri. The university 
enrolls about 1,600 undergraduates, 450 graduate students in six master's 
programs, and 3,160 students in the College of Continuing Professional 
Studies.[3] Established in 1873, Drury is consistently ranked among the 
best liberal arts universities in the American Midwest. In 2013, the Drury 
Panthers Men's Basketball team won the NCAA Men's Division II Basketball 
Championship. Drury was founded as Springfield College in 1873 by Congregationalist 
church missionaries in the mold of other Congregationalist universities 
such as Dartmouth College and Yale University. Rev. Nathan Morrison, Samuel 
Drury, and James and Charles Harwood provided the school's initial endowment 
and organization; Samuel Drury's gift was the largest of the group and 
the school was soon renamed in honor of Drury's recently deceased son. 
The early curriculum emphasized educational, religious, and musical strengths. 
Students came to the new college from a wide area, including the Indian 
Territories of Oklahoma. The first graduating class included four women. 
When classes began in 1873, they were held in a single building on a campus 
occupying less than 1 1⁄2 acres (0.61 ha). Twenty-five years later the 
40-acre (16.2 ha) campus included Stone Chapel, the President's House and 
three academic buildings. Today, the university occupies a 115-acre (46.5 ha) 
campus, including the original historic buildings. On April 28, 1960, Drury 
College was the setting for an episode of NBC's The Ford Show, Starring 
Tennessee Ernie Ford. Tennessee Ernie Ford sang his trademark "Sixteen 
Tons" and the hymn "Take My Hand, Precious Lord".[4] Drury College became 
Drury University on January 1, 2000.[5] The current president is J. Timothy 
Cloyd, formerly president of Hendrix College in Conway, Arkansas. Dr. Cloyd 
was elected to serve as the 18th president of Drury University in 2016.[citation 
needed] Drury, like Dartmouth and Yale, was founded by Congregationalist 
missionaries, and like these schools, it is no longer a religious institution. 
It remains affiliated with the Congregationalist church and its successor, 
the United Church of Christ. It has also been affiliated with the Christian 
Church (Disciples of Christ) since the founding of the Drury School of 
Religion in 1909.[6] Drury is a mid-size undergraduate and graduate research 
university, accredited by The Higher Learning Commission.[7] The university 
offers 54 undergraduate majors[8] and several professional degrees through 
the Hammons School of Architecture, Breech School of Business Administration, 
and School of Education & Child Development. Drury has been at or near 
the top of the U.S. News and World Report "Great Schools at Great Prices" 
list for the Midwest since 1999, including five years in the #1 slot. It 
was ranked No. 8 on U.S. News and World Report's Best Regional Universities 
(Midwest) for 2014. It has been included in Princeton Review's Guide to 
Green Colleges since 2010. Other accolades include Honorable Mention for 
Best Liberal Arts School in the Nation by Time Magazine, a top producer 
of Fulbright Scholars in 2011 according to the Institute of International 
Education, and one of 13 "Institutions of Excellence" by the Policy Center 
on the First Year of College.[3] Drury is a residential university. Full-time 
day school students live on campus until they are a minimum of 21 at the 
start of an academic year, unless they meet specific criteria to be exempt 
from the housing policy. Freshmen live in one of the three residence halls: 
Smith, Wallace, and Sunderland halls. Smith Hall and Wallace Hall are suite-style 
double-occupancy rooms, where four students share a bathroom. Sunderland 
Hall has suite-style single-occupancy rooms, with four students and two 
bathrooms in a suite. Freshmen in Sunderland Hall live in Living Learning 
Communities (LLCs). Each LLC is composed of 16-20 students interested in 
a common theme, interacting together and with faculty and staff through 
a shared class, CORE 101. Upperclassmen may choose to live in university-owned 
apartments, houses, fraternity houses, or the Summit Park Leadership Community 
(an upperclassman LLC). A majority of campus apartments have 4 single-occupancy 
bedrooms and are fully furnished. There are a limited number of studios, 
1-bedroom, 2-bedroom and 3-bedroom apartments, both furnished and unfurnished. 
Summit Park residents (usually sophomores) in groups of 4 or 8 form a year-long 
partnership with a local community agency and commit to 15 hours of community 
service a semester. Amenities for the residence halls and fraternity houses 
include furnishings, mini-fridge/microwave, wireless and network Internet, 
expanded basic cable TV service, community laundry facilities for no additional 
charge, all utilities, including trash and co-mingled recycling. Campus 
apartments include expanded basic cable television service, Internet access, 
all utilities including trash and co-mingled recycling. Furnishings, laundry 
facilities and kitchen appliances will vary by location. All residents 
may attend Residence Life Association (RLA) events for no additional charge, 
as well as programs hosted by Resident Assistants or Community Assistants. 
Drury's study abroad program is an integral part of the college experience. 
Almost half of the student body studies overseas at some point in short-term, 
semester, or year-long programs.[3] Foreign learning is a requirement for 
most students with majors in the schools of Business and Architecture. 
Drury also maintains a satellite campus in Aegina, Greece that is home 
to several of the university's most distinctive courses. Though the Center 
is quite popular with architecture students, it is attended by students 
across disciplines and majors.[9] Drury's NCAA Division II intercollegiate 
athletic teams compete in men's and women's basketball, men's and women's 
cross country, men's and women's golf, men's and women's soccer, men's 
and women's swimming, men's and women's tennis, men's baseball, women's 
softball, and women's volleyball. The school was a founding member of the 
Heartland Conference. In the fall of 2005, the Drury Panthers joined the 
Great Lakes Valley Conference Drury currently has four sororities and four 
fraternities. Sororities: Fraternities: Bill Virdon,Professional Baseball 
