Duane Eugene Kuiper (born June 19, 1950) is a former Major League Baseball 
second baseman, as well as a seven-time Emmy award-winning[1] radio and 
television sportscaster for the San Francisco Giants. Along with former 
major league pitcher Mike Krukow, Kuiper forms the broadcast duo known 
as "Kruk and Kuip".[1][2] Kuiper and his two brothers grew up on a 300-acre 
farm in Sturtevant, Wisconsin, near Racine. He played baseball at Jerome 
I. Case High School in Racine, Wisconsin. Kuiper is a graduate of Southern 
Illinois University in Carbondale, Illinois, where he was a member of the 
Tau Kappa Epsilon Fraternity. His roommate was Dan Radison, currently a 
coach for the Houston Astros. Kuiper was drafted by the New York Yankees 
out of Jerome I. Case High School in the twelfth round of the 1968 Major 
League Baseball Draft, but chose instead to attend Indian Hills Community 
College. He was drafted by the Seattle Pilots, Chicago White Sox and Cincinnati 
Reds while attending Indian Hills, but did not sign with any of these clubs. 
After a season at Southern Illinois University, he was drafted by the Boston 
Red Sox in the fourth round of the 1971 June Secondary Amateur Draft, but 
again did not sign. It wasn't until graduating from Southern Illinois that 
Kuiper finally said yes to the Cleveland Indians, who drafted him in the 
first round of the 1972 January Secondary Amateur Draft. Kuiper spent three 
seasons in the Indians' farm system, batting .295 with six home runs and 
148 runs batted in before receiving a September call-up in 1974. He made 
his major league debut on September 9 as a late inning defensive replacement 
for Jack Brohamer, and grounded into a double play in his only at-bat.[3] 
However, he fared far better in his future plate appearances, collecting 
nine singles, two doubles, two walks and four RBIs in 24 plate appearances. 
Though Kuiper spent time with the triple-A Oklahoma City 89ers in 1975, 
he spent most of the season in the majors, splitting time with Brohamer 
at second base, and batting second in manager Frank Robinson's batting 
order. Following the season, the Indians dealt Brohamer to the White Sox, 
clearing a spot for Kuiper to play every day. Though Kuiper was not much 
of an offensive threat, he proved to be an above average defender, leading 
American League second basemen in fielding percentage in 1976 and 1979. 
He hit his only career home run against Chicago White Sox pitcher Steve 
Stone on August 29, 1977.[4] Kuiper holds the major league record for most 
career at-bats with exactly one home run.[5] Since the game in question 
was on national television, Kuiper's singular feat was captured on video. 
(Giants telecasts, for which Kuiper is currently an announcer, will run 
the highlight from time to time to poke fun at him. On April 25, 2014, 
the Giants held "Duane Kuiper Home Run Bobblehead Night" for their game 
against the Indians.[6]) On July 27, 1978, Kuiper hit two bases-loaded 
triples against the Yankees at Yankee Stadium.[7] He is one of only three 
Major League players to accomplish this feat. On May 15, 1981, Len Barker 
pitched a perfect game against the Toronto Blue Jays with Kuiper at second 
base. Kuiper fielded five ground balls to contribute to the effort. Shortly 
after Kuiper suffered a knee injury that caused him to miss most of the 
1980 season, the Indians acquired Alan Bannister from the White Sox. The 
two platooned at second in 1981. Following the season, Kuiper was dealt 
to the San Francisco Giants for pitcher Ed Whitson. Kuiper backed up Hall 
of famer Joe Morgan his first season in San Francisco, and batted .255 
in three-plus seasons platooning at second for the Giants before being 
released by the club on June 28, 1985. He and future broadcast partner 
Mike Krukow were both on the Giants from 1983–1985, where they formed their 
friendship. After retiring from baseball, Kuiper provided commentary for 
the Giants from 1986 to 1992 before leaving for a one-year stint with the 
expansion Colorado Rockies in 1993. Kuiper returned to broadcast for the 
Giants in 1994, where he has remained since.[1] Kuiper's call of Bonds' 
715th home run to pass Babe Ruth is considered the historic call for that 
home run, as radio announcer Dave Flemming's microphone cut out at the 
exact moment the ball was hit:[8] Kuiper made the TV call for Barry Bonds' 
historic 756th home run which broke Hank Aaron's record (although the historic 
call is that of KNBR radio announcer Jon Miller). Kuiper's call of Bonds' 
756th career home run: On November 1, 2010, Kuiper made the historic call 
for the final out of Game 5 of the 2010 World Series that resulted in the 
Giants' first title since 1954: While principally a television play-by-play 
announcer on CSN Bay Area, Kuiper also shares radio play-by-play duties 
with Dave Flemming on KNBR when the Giants television broadcast is carried 
by NBC Bay Area and Jon Miller handles the television play-by-play. He 
also fills in on the radio side when Flemming is unable to announce games 
due to his second job as an ESPN college football and basketball announcer. 
During Giants post-season play, Kuiper along with other available Giants 
broadcasters all move to the radio side while the television broadcasts 
are handled by network sportscasters. Kruk and Kuip can be heard in the 
Electronic Arts video games MVP Baseball 2003, MVP Baseball 2004, and MVP 
Baseball 2005. In December 2010, both Kuiper and Krukow signed six-year 
extensions to continue as Giants announcers.[9] On June 13, 2012, Kuiper 
called Matt Cain's perfect game: On June 13, 2012, Kuiper also called a 
play in the 7th inning, where Gregor Blanco made a diving catch in right 
field to help preserve Matt Cain's perfect game: "And this is hit out into 
the alleyway, a long run for Blanco, and Blanco's gonna dive, and HE MAKES 
THE CATCH!!" Kuiper uses a deep voice when a player swings and misses, 
when a dramatic play is made, and when he calls home runs. Kuiper is noted 
for his distinctive calls beginning and ending each game: after the result 
of the first batter of the game, he says, "And that's how this game gets 
started"; when the ball game is over, Kuiper says, "And that's the ball 
game!" When Kuiper states the pitch count on a batter, he often calls "nothing" 
in lieu of calling "a ball" and the current number of strikes when the 
count is "no balls". Kuiper often uses the phrase "Got 'em!" when an out 
is recorded. His trademark home run call is "He hits it high... hits it 
deep... it is (or this baby is) OUTTA HERE!" or "HIGH DRIVE... LEFT (or 
RIGHT) FIELD... IT IS (sometimes: THIS BABY IS) OUTTA HERE!" Another popular 
home run saying, "THAT ONE'S BELTED DEEP, AND GONE!! A HOME RUN!!" In April 
2010, Kuiper coined a new slogan from a fan's sign for the SF Giants club: 
"Giants baseball... torture!" This slogan is used generally if the games 
are either tense, tight, or very close, in which the Giants have later 
won by a small margin.[10][11] Kuiper lives in Danville, California, with 
his wife, Michelle. They have two adult children: a son, Cole, and a daughter, 
Dannon.[1] Duane is just one in a family of baseball broadcasters, all 
working in the San Francisco Bay Area. His younger brother, Glen Kuiper, 
is the play-by-play announcer for the Oakland Athletics, a job mirroring 
his older brother's a few miles across the bay. Their middle brother, Jeff, 
is a television producer for the Giants who produces Duane's broadcasts.[8] 
Kuiper visits the family farm in Sturtevant every time the Giants play 
the Brewers in Milwaukee.[12] Kuiper is the cousin of former MLB player 
