The Irish Baseball League (IBL) is the men's league in Ireland. It started 
play in 1997 and continues to this day.[1] The season runs from April to 
September (which usually includes a mid-summer break ) and are played on 
the weekends.[2] The O'Malley Fields at Corkagh Park in Clondalkin, West 
Dublin are the main home of Irish Baseball. The majority of league games 
are held at the fields along with Ireland National Team. The Black Sox 
play at Shanganagh Park which is yet to be developed into a "Real" baseball 
field. The Greystones Mariners home field is completed and will host adult 
games for the first time this year. The Northstars have played at the playing 
fields of Queen's University and Victoria Park, Belfast, and are currently 
resident at Henry Jones Playing Fields in Castlereagh. They are currently 
in negotiations with a number of landowners with a view to having a dedicated 
baseball field. For the 2016 season the following teams are participating 
at the associated venues: Previous Irish League Champions 1997–2015 (* 
The Dukes are no longer in existence, they were made defunct in 1998 when 
the league started from scratch with an 'all-players draft' and total reformat 
of all teams.) The individual Irish League awards given out annually have 
an Irish Flavour in an effort to pay homage to the great Irish players 
who played in the Major Leagues from years gone by. For example, instead 
of the traditional Cy Young Award being given to the League's Top Pitcher, 
recipients are presented with the 'Tommy Bond' Best Pitcher Award. Andy 
Leonard from County Cavan, was the only Irish-born member of the "First 
Boys of Summer": the 1869 Cincinnati Red Stockings, baseball's first professional 
team. He also helped create and sustain the original Boston Red Stockings 
championship dynasty from 1872 through 1876 and again in 1878, competing 
in six world championships. He had the joint 2nd best career average for 
an Irish player of .299. He was said to be the finest left fielder of his 
generation. He took particular delight in returning in 1874 during an exhibition 
tour of the Red Stockings and the runner-up Philadelphia Athletics. In 
his diary and press clippings of that year, Andy and his lifelong friend 
Harry Wright were the leading batsmen as the Yanks beat the then reigning 
Marybone champions in London at their own game, cricket. Previous winners 
of The 'Andy Leonard' League MVP Award include: (** Dublin Panthers is 
now a defunct franchise. Most of their players left to join either the 
Dublin Blacksox or retire in 2004.) Tommy Bond was born in Granard in County 
Longford in 1856. He became the first Triple Crown pitcher when he led 
the National League with 40 wins, 170 strikeouts, and a 2.11 ERA for Boston 
in 1877. Previous winners of The 'Tommy Bond' Best Pitcher Award include: 
Other awards given are the 'Dirty' Jack Doyle Silver Slugger Award and 
the Patsy Donovan Batting Champion Award. (Other awards are listed on the 
official Baseball Ireland site). The 2015 season saw the Dublin City Hurricanes, 
aka "La Familia", complete the first end-to-end undefeated season in Irish 
Baseball history, capping a perfect 18-0 regular season with a two-game 
sweep of the Greystones Mariners in the League Final to finish with an 
unprecedented 20-0 record. The Canes also won the inaugural Ulster Open 
Baseball Championship in June 2015, beating a combined Dublin Spartans/Greystones 
Mariners/Dublin Black Sox squad in the tournament Final. The 2010 season 
opened with newcomers to the league "Munster Warriors" beating the Spartans 
twice. 1-0 and 8-5. The other game in the opening round was the 4-3 victory 
for the Hurricanes over the Mariners. The next round had the two heavyweights 
in the league against each other and it was the Spartans who were to come 
out top with a 6-5 victory over the Hurricanes. The other game in the 2nd 
round was the Mariners 3-1 victory over the Black Sox. The next round featured 
one of the most exciting games of the last few years. The Mariners were 
playing the Black Sox again in Shankhill. Having let a 4-0 lead slip in 
typical Mariners fashion the Greystones Mariners were 8-5 down in the bottom 
of the 7th inning with 2 outs. Jack Fairbairn amazingly bunts his way to 
first (with two outs!) which sets up one of the greatest comebacks ever 
recorded in the Irish League. The Mariners managed to tie the game into 
extra innings where the Black Sox scored another run to make the score 
9-8 to the Black Sox. Cian O' Riordan stole home to tie up the game. Steven 
Hayes took a walk to 1st and stole 2nd. Jack Fairbairn steps up to the 
plate and once again bunts his way to success. An overthrow from the Black 
Sox catcher past 1st allowed Steven Hayes to score the winning run. A truly 
great game. The Mariners were the first team to qualify for the playoffs 
after the Warriors gave them a double walk-over which ensured they finished 
in the top two. The 2007 Irish Adult Baseball League started with the Belfast 
Northstars defeating the Dublin Twins 12-7 and 13-7. The Dublin Black Sox 
also defeated the Greystones Mariners 16-7. The Irish Baseball League had 
two levels for 2007, A and B. The A level consisted of the Spartans, the 
Hurricanes, the Twins, the Greystones Mariners, the Blacksox and the Belfast 
Northstars. The B level was for player and club development and consists 
of B teams from the Spartans, Hurricanes, Blacksox and Greystones Mariners. 
