In cricket, a duck is a batsman's dismissal for a score of zero. The term 
is a shortening of the term "duck's egg", the latter being used long before 
Test cricket began. When referring to the Prince of Wales' (the future 
Edward VII) score of nought on 17 July 1866, a contemporary newspaper wrote 
that the Prince "retired to the royal pavilion on a "duck's egg"".[1] The 
name is believed to come from the shape of the number "0" being similar 
to that of a duck's egg, as in the case of the American English slang term 
"goose-egg" popular in baseball and the tennis term "love," derived from 
French l'oeuf ("the egg"). The Concise Oxford Dictionary still cites "duck's 
egg" as an alternative version of the term.[2] The first duck in a Test 
match was made in the very first Test of all, between Australia and England 
at Melbourne in March 1877, when Ned Gregory was caught by Andrew Greenwood 
off the bowling of James Lillywhite.[3] As of 2007, the record for the 
most ducks in Test cricket is held by West Indies player Courtney Walsh, 
who was out for nought on 43 occasions,[4] while the overall first-class 
record is 156, set by Worcestershire and England player Reg Perks.[5] One 
particularly high-profile example of a duck came in 1948, when Don Bradman 
was playing his final Test match for Australia, against England at The 
Oval. In Australia's first innings, Bradman was bowled for a duck by Eric 
Hollies, causing his Test average to fall from 101.39 to 99.94; had he 
scored just four runs, his average would have been 100. As things turned 
out, Australia won the match by an innings, and so Bradman did not get 
to bat a second time (had he batted, he would have needed at least 104 
runs if dismissed or at least four runs if not out to get his average back 
to 100).[6] In the first Test of Australia's tour of India in 1986, with 
the cumulative scores tied, Indian tailender Maninder Singh was trapped 
LBW by Greg Matthews for a four ball duck, ensuring just the second tied 
Test in Test Cricket history. Indian all-rounder Ajit Agarkar earned the 
unfortunate nickname "Bombay Duck" after being dismissed for ducks seven 
consecutive times in test matches against Australia.[7][8] In a 1913 match 
against Glastonbury, Huish and Langport's batsmen all scored ducks for 
a total of zero runs.[9] A similar occurrence in indoor cricket happened 
in 2016, when Bapchild Cricket Club were dismissed for zero against Christ 
Church University.[10] There are several variations used to describe specific 
types of duck. The usage or prevalence of many of these terms vary regionally, 
with one term having different meanings in different parts of the world. 
Even within commentary from ESPN Cricinfo or individual cricket board websites, 
there is no uniform application of some of these terms. To be dismissed 
for nought in both innings of the same two-innings match is to be dismissed 
for a pair,[21] because the two noughts together are thought to resemble 
a pair of spectacles; the longer form is occasionally used.[22] To be dismissed 
first ball in both innings (i.e., two golden ducks) is to suffer the indignity 
of making a king pair.[11] A "golden duck" is also known as a 'Primary'. 
In 1955 several young members of Beckenham Cricket Club in Kent who had 
been dismissed first ball that season, formed a club dedicated to supporting 
a charity to help blind cricketers. The Primary Club has grown into an 
international charity making annual donations in excess of £100,000 to 
a variety of schools and clubs for the blind and partially sighted. Their 
patron is former England and Kent cricketer Derek Underwood MBE. Membership 
is open to any player who has been dismissed first ball in any game of 
cricket. Funds are raised through the selling of ties which should be worn 
