In baseball, the dugout is a team's bench area and is located in foul territory 
between home plate and either first or third base. There are two dugouts, 
one for the home team and one for the visiting team. In general, the dugout 
is occupied by all players not prescribed to be on the field at that particular 
time, as well as coaches and other personnel authorized by the league. 
The players' equipment (gloves, bats, batting helmets, catcher's equipment, 
etc.) is usually stored in the dugout. In baseball, the manager, with the 
help of his assistants, will dictate offensive strategy from the dugout 
by sending hand signals to the first and third base coaches. To avoid detection, 
the first and third base coaches will then translate those hand signals 
into their own set of hand signals and then send them on to the batter 
and runners. The term dugout refers to the area being slightly depressed 
below field level, as is common in professional baseball. The prevailing 
theory of the origin of locating the dugouts below field level is that 
it allowed spectators seated behind the dugouts to see the field, specifically 
the home plate area. Unlike most other sports, the primary action in baseball 
is centered on one area – home plate – and obstructing this area from fans' 
view, even if by players on the bench, would not be popular with fans. 
Not all dugouts are located below the field level. At the major league 
level, the few dugouts that are located at the field level are in multi-purpose 
stadiums to simplify the conversion from baseball configuration to another 
sports field configuration. At such ballparks, the seating area is raised 
such that the dugouts do not obstruct the spectators' view. Dugouts are 
also at field level at most amateur ballparks, where locating them below 
field level would be cost prohibitive or otherwise not beneficial. In these 
cases, the term "dugout" still applies, as does "bench." In the early days 
of professional baseball, the seating areas were often constructed high 
enough that the bench was at field level. Most professional and collegiate 
ballparks feature dugouts that are below the field level, with concrete 
steps along the entire length of the dugout. Some feature a railing along 
the top step, or "lip", while others are open. In most Major League Baseball 
ballparks, as well as many minor league ballparks, the dugout is directly 
connected to the clubhouse by a tunnel. Most high school, Little League, 
and recreational ballparks feature dugouts that are at the field level, 
usually separated from the playing field by chain-link fencing. Historic 
Cardines Field, home of the Newport Gulls, uniquely features both dugouts 
on the first base side. MLB rule 3.17[1] specifies that "no one except 
players, substitutes, managers, coaches, trainers and batboys shall occupy 
a bench during a game." The rule also stipulates that players on the disabled 
list are allowed in the dugout, but may not enter the field of play at 
any time during the game. Players and coaches who have been ejected from 
the game may not remain in the dugout per Rule 4.07.[2] Unlike most other 
sports, where a ball or puck entering a team's bench area has already passed 
out of bounds and is thus dead before it reaches the bench, it is possible 
in baseball for a dugout to be a factor in play. MLB rule 6.05(a) states 
that a fielder may reach into a dugout to catch a fly ball as long as one 
or both feet is on or over the playing field, and does not have a foot 
on the ground in the dugout when making the catch. MLB universal ground 
rules state that the player may subsequently enter the dugout after making 
the catch if his momentum is carrying him that way, but if he falls in 
the dugout as a result, the catch is allowed but baserunners advance in 
accordance with Rule 7.04(c).[3] A live ball entering a dugout becomes 
dead and the batter-runner and any baserunners advance in accordance with 
Rule 7.04(c). However, a live ball bouncing off a dugout railing, if present, 
is still in play (unless a foul ball). Due to the dugouts' location in 
foul territory, live balls entering dugouts usually only occur after an 
errant throw by the defensive team. Individual leagues at levels below 
MLB are free to set their own rules governing the dugouts as is appropriate 
for their league's ballparks and playing level. For example, the rule governing 
reaching into dugouts to catch fly balls would not apply in leagues where 
the dugouts are separated from the field by a chain-link fence that is 
taller than the players. Which team occupies the dugout on the first-base 
side or the third-base side is purely arbitrary. The Major League Baseball 
Rulebook is silent on the subject. There are many anecdotal reasons why 
one dugout is chosen over the other.[citation needed] In the past, the 
manager also served as the third base coach, so occupying the third base 
dugout meant less walking for the manager between innings. Contrarily, 
the thought is that since more close plays occur at first base than third, 
the first base dugout is preferred. For a pre-existing facility, the home 
team might choose the better clubhouse and the dugout on that side of the 
field. (For example, prior to their 2008 move to Nationals Park, the Washington 
Nationals occupied the third-base dugout at RFK Stadium because it was 
the larger and newer of the two dugouts.[citation needed]) Another factor 
can be the sun angle during day games. In ballparks where one of the dugouts 
faces direct sunlight for much of the game, which can be problematic on 
hot summer days, the home club might choose the dugout that is better shaded. 
In both the National League and American League, more home team dugouts 
are on the first-base side (9 to 6 each). Even the two oldest parks still 
in use differ on this point: the Cubs sit on the third-base side at Wrigley 
while the Red Sox inhabit the first-base dugout at Fenway. Due to the ballpark's 
orientation, at Wrigley the third-base dugout faces away from the sun from 
noon onward, whereas the first base dugout faces sunlight in the late innings. 
At Fenway, the third-base dugout faces the sun for part of a day game, 
