Duncan Fraser Curry (November 28, 1812 – April 1894) was an American baseball 
pioneer and insurance executive. Curry was the first president of the Knickerbockers 
Base Ball Club, reported to be the first organized baseball club in 1845. 
He is also credited with participating in the drafting of the Knickerbocker 
Rules, the first written set of official baseball rules. He also served 
on the game's various rules committees from 1845 until at least 1856. Curry 
was also one of the founders of the Republic Fire Insurance Company and 
served as its secretary from 1852 to 1882. Curry was born in New York City 
in November 28, 1812.[1] Curry worked in the insurance business for more 
than 35 years. From 1843 to 1852, he was the Secretary of the City Fire 
Insurance Company. In 1852, he was one of the founding officers of the 
Republic Fire Insurance Company, known as "The Pioneer Mutual Fire Insurance 
Co. Combining the Economy of the Mutual Plan with the Security of a Cash 
Capital."[2] He served as the Secretary of Republic Fire Insurance Company 
for 30 years from its formation in 1852 until 1882.[1][3][4] In 1842, Curry 
was part of a group of prominent New York businessmen who gathered in the 
afternoons to play a game that became baseball. Curry later recalled: "For 
several years it had been our habit to casually assemble on a plot of ground 
that is now known as Twenty-seventh street and Fourth avenue, where the 
Harlem Railroad Depot afterward stood. We would take our bats and balls 
with us and play any sort of game. We had no name in particular for it. 
Sometimes we batted the ball to one another or sometimes we played one 
o'cat."[5] Baseball pioneer and Hall of Fame inductee John Montgomery Ward 
interviewed several of the early members of the group, including Curry, 
and later wrote the following about the early development of the game in 
New York: "When in about the year 1842 or earlier, Dr. D. L. Adams, Alexander 
J. Cartwright, Colonel James Lee, Duncan F. Curry, E. R. Dupignac, William 
F. Ladd and other prominent business and professional men of New York City, 
seeking some medium for outdoor exercise, turned to the boy's game of Base 
Ball, there was not a code of rules nor any written records of the game."[6] 
In his history of baseball, Al Spalding wrote of the group: "Nevertheless, 
it is of record that as early as the year 1842, a number of New York gentlemen 
-- and I used the term 'gentlemen' in its highest social significance -- 
were accustomed to meet regularly for Base Ball practice games. It does 
not appear that any of these were world-beaters in the realm of athletic 
sports."[7] In the spring of 1845, one of the members of the group, Alexander 
Cartwright, proposed that they establish a formal baseball club. A committee 
consisting of Cartwright, Curry, William Wheaton, William H. Tucker and 
Dupignac was charged with responsibility to secure signatures of players 
wishing to belong to the club and to otherwise organize the club.[8][9] 
On September 23, 1845, at a meeting held at McCarty's Hotel in New York 
City (located at Hudson and 12 Streets), the Knickerbockers Base Ball Club 
was formally established, and Curry was selected as its first president. 
The Knickerbockers were reported to have been the first organized baseball 
club.[1][10][11] In his history of the sport, Al Spalding cited the formation 
of the Knickerbockers as a seminal point in baseball history: "The organization 
of the Knickerbocker Base Ball Club was the beginning of a most important 
era in the history of the game, for it was the first recorded movement 
of that kind. The right and title to the distinction of being the first 
organized Base Ball club in the world belongs to the old Knickerbocker 
Club. That honor has never been called in question. For more than thirty 
years the Knickerbocker Club maintained an amateur organization, and as 
such was regarded as a model in every respect."[12] Curry also served on 
the committee that drafted the Knickerbocker Rules, reputed to be the first 
set of official written rules for the game of baseball.[1] Differing accounts 
as to who deserved credit for the establishment of the Knickerbocker Rules 
have been posthumously attributed to Curry over the years. On one occasion, 
he was reported to have stated that he and William Tucker had crafted the 
rules.[13] In the recounting of an interview with reporter Will Rankin, 
Curry was quoted as rejecting the notion that Henry Chadwick should be 
credited. According to Rankin, Curry said: "Thomas Fiddlesticks [Chadwick] 
had no more to do with the original rules than you had. William Wheaton, 
William H. Tucker and I drew up the first set of rules and the game was 
developed by the people who played it and were connected with it."[14] 
However, in a 1911 book published by Alfred Henry Spink, Curry was quoted 
as giving principal credit for creation of the new game to Alexander Cartwright. 
Spink's book attributed the following to Curry: "Well do I remember the 
afternoon that Alex Cartwright came up to the ball field with a new scheme 
for playing ball. . . . On this afternoon I have already mentioned, Cartwright 
came to the field – the march of improvement had driven us further north 
and we located on a piece of property on the slope of Murray Hill, between 
the railroad cut and Third avenue – with his plans drawn up on paper. He 
had arranged for two nines, the ins and outs. "That is, while one set of 
players were taking their turn at bat the other side was placed in their 
respective positions on the field. He had laid out a diamond-shaped field, 
with canvas bags filled with sand or sawdust for bases at three points 
and an iron plate for the home base. He had arranged for a catcher, a pitcher, 
three basemen, a short fielder and three outfielders. His plan met with 
much good derision, but he was so persistent in having us try his new game 
that we finally consented more to humor him than with any thought of it 
becoming a reality. . . When we saw what a great game Cartwright had given 
us, and as his suggestion for forming a club to play it met with our approval, 
we set about to organize a club."[5] Curry and two other members arranged 
for the Knickerbockers to play their first game against another team. The 
game, long cited as the first officially recorded game of baseball,[15][16][17][18][19][20] 
was played against the "New York Club" on June 19, 1846, at Elysian Fields, 
Hoboken, New Jersey. The Knickerbockers lost by a score of 23 to 1. Curry 
recalled the game as follows: "An awful beating you could say at our own 
game, but, you see, the majority of the New York Club's players were cricketers, 
and clever ones at that game, and their batting was the feature of their 
work. The chief trouble was that we had held our opponents too cheaply 
and few of us had practiced any prior to the contest, thinking that we 
knew more about the game than they did. . . . The pitcher of the New York 
nine was a cricket bowler of some note, and while one could use only the 
straight arm delivery he could pitch an awfully speedy ball. The game was 
in a crude state. No balls were called on the pitcher and that was a great 
advantage to him, and when he did get them over the plate they came in 
so fast our batsmen could not see them."[21] Curry continued to be a prominent 
member of the Knickerbockers for many years.[22][23] He was also appointed 
by the Knickerbockers as a member of the game's various rules committees 
for more than a decade and through at least 1856. An 1848 pamphlet published 
by the Knickerbockers identifies Curry, Alexander Cartwright, Doc Adams, 
Eugene Plunkett, and J. P. Mumford as the members of the committee "to 
revise constitution and By-Laws."[24] In November 1853, Curry was assigned 
to a rules committee that included Doc Adams, William H. Tucker, and members 
of another New York baseball club, the Eagle Club.[23][25] The committee 
met on April 1, 1854 at Smith's on Howard Street in New York. The committee 
adopted a set of rules that would govern play among the three leading clubs, 
the Knickerbockers, the Gotham Club, and the Eagle Club. Among other things, 
the 1854 rules included specifications for the size and weight of the ball, 
set the dimensions of the infield, and adopted the "force out rule" of 
tagging first base to put a batter out on a ground ball.[25] In 1856, Curry 
became involved in a debate among the Knickerbockers as to whether to allow 
nonmembers to participate in games if fewer than 18 men were available 
to play. Curry, as the leader of the group that historian John Thorn has 
dubbed the "Old Fogy" or "exclusionary clique," resisted the proposal and 
offered a counter-proposal that no non-members should be allowed to participate 
as long as at least 14 members were available. The Curry measure was approved 
by a vote of 13 to 11. At that time, the club also debated a new rule to 
replace the prior practice of playing until a team scored 21 runs. The 
debate focused on whether the game should consist of seven or nine innings. 
Curry was an advocate of the seven-inning format and was appointed to a 
committee to consider the question.[26] Although the majority of the Knickerbockers 
sided with Curry on the seven-inning format, Louis F. Wadsworth (who favored 
the nine-inning format) called for a convention among the baseball clubs 
to agree on a format. The convention (known as the first National Association 
meetings) was held in 1857, at which time the delegates approved the nine-inning 
format. In his history of early baseball, John Thorn wrote that the adoption 
of Wadsworth's nine-inning format marked the end of power for the Knickerbockers' 
"Old Fogy" clique.[27] In 1905, Al Spalding wrote in his Spalding's Official 
Base Ball Guide that "the original Knickerbocker Club should be honored 
and remembered as the founders of our national game." In particular, he 
cited 11 original Knickerbockers as deserving of the honor, including Curry, 
Doc Adams, Alexander Cartwright, E. R. Dupignac, William Wheaton and William 
H. Tucker.[28] In March 1894, a controversy developed when James Whyte 
Davis, who had been president of the Knickerbockers from 1858 to 1860, 
announced plans to request ten cent subscriptions from baseball players 
so that, upon his death, a tombstone could be erected identifying him as 
the "Father of Baseball." Davis's request drew an angry letter from an 
anonymous baseball person that was published in The Sporting Life. The 
letter included the following comments about Curry: "Mr. Curry was one 
of the organizers of the Knickerbocker Club and was elected the first president 
of that organization in 1845 at the club's first meeting. He was on the 
Committee on Rules and helped draft the first rules under which base ball 
was regularly played. So if any one deserves the title of 'Father of Base 
Ball,' Mr. Curry does and not Mr. Davis."[29] Curry died one month after 
the controversy. He was buried at Brooklyn's Green-Wood Cemetery with a 
white marble monument identifying him as the "Father of Baseball."[30] 
In his 2003 book "Baseball Legends of Brooklyn's Green-Wood Cemetery," 
baseball historian Peter Nash wrote that Green-Wood is the common resting 
place of four men vying for the "Father of Baseball" title—Curry, Henry 
Chadwick, William Wheaton, and William Tucker.[31][32] Nash opined that 
"a case can be made that "Curry, Wheaton, Tucker, and Cartwright were the 
true founding fathers of the modern game."[33] Curry also played a posthumous 
role in the conclusion of the Mills Commission crediting Abner Doubleday 
with inventing the game of baseball. In an 1877 interview with reporter 
Will Rankin, Curry reportedly said that a Mr. Wadsworth had in 1845 brought 
a diagram to the field where the Knickerbockers played showing the baseball 
diamond laid out substantially in its current form. According to Curry, 
the diagram led to much discussion, and the club agreed to try it. In a 
decision that has been hotly debated for over 100 years, the Mills Commission 
concluded in 1905 that the diagram could be traced to Doubleday and cited 
it as evidence of Doubleday's role in the origin of the game.[34] At the 
time of the 1850 United States Census, Curry was living in New York City's 
16th Ward, and his occupation was listed as a clerk. Other members of his 
household were his grandmother Flora Fraser (age 90),[35] Elizabeth Robinson 
(age 53), Margaret Blount (age 47), Mary Ann Blount (age 21), David Blount 
(age 15), George Blount (age 13), Duncan F. Blount (age 10), and servant 
Amenia Hafe (age 18).[36] On August 16, 1859, Curry was married at the 
Church of the Transfiguration in New York to Angie Kerr, the youngest daughter 
of William R. Kerr of Cincinnati, Ohio.[37] At the time of the 1860 United 
States Census, Curry was living in New York City's 22nd Ward, and his occupation 
was listed as a bookkeeper. He was shown in the Census as having real estate 
valued at $8,000 and personal estate valued at $1,000. Other members of 
his household were Elizabeth Robinson (age 64), Angie Curry (age 30), Mary 
G. Curry (age 6 months), and two domestics Mary Kenn and Catherine Bolen.[38] 
Federal tax assessor's records show D. F. Curry of New York as having taxable 
property of $4,800 in 1864, $5,165 in 1865 and $4,921 in 1866. The 1866 
lists shows his address as 153 Broadway.[39][40] By 1884, Curry had moved 
to Brooklyn and was residing at 221 Gates Avenue.[41] He later lived in 
Brooklyn at 282A Gates Avenue and 279 Ryerson.[42][43] Curry died at his 
home in Brooklyn in April 1894 at age 81.[1] He died due to heart disease.[44][45] 
His funeral was held at St. James Episcopal Church in Brooklyn. He was 
survived by a son, Duncan Curry, and a daughter, Mary Gray Curry Wolff.[1] 
