Duquesne University of the Holy Spirit (/djuːˈkeɪn/) is a private Catholic 
university in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States. Founded by members 
of the Congregation of the Holy Spirit, Duquesne first opened its doors 
as the Pittsburgh Catholic College of the Holy Ghost in October 1878 with 
an enrollment of 40 students and a faculty of six. In 1911, the college 
became the first Catholic university in Pennsylvania. It is the only Spiritan 
institution of higher education in the world.[3] Duquesne has since expanded 
to over 10,000 graduate and undergraduate students within a self-contained 
49-acre (19.8 ha) hilltop campus in Pittsburgh's Bluff neighborhood. The 
school maintains an associate campus in Rome and encompasses ten schools 
of study. The university hosts international students from more than 80 
countries[4] although most students — about 80% — are from Pennsylvania 
or the surrounding region.[5] Duquesne is considered a research university 
with high research activity institution by the Carnegie Foundation for 
the Advancement of Teaching.[6] There are more than 79,000 living alumni 
of the university[3] including two cardinals and the current bishop of 
Pittsburgh. The Duquesne Dukes compete in NCAA Division I. Duquesne men's 
basketball appeared twice in national championship games in the 1950s and 
won the NIT championship in 1955. The Pittsburgh Catholic College of the 
Holy Ghost was founded on October 1, 1878 by Fr. Joseph Strub and the Holy 
Ghost Fathers, who had been expelled from Germany during Otto von Bismarck's 
Kulturkampf six years earlier.[7] When the college was founded, it had 
six faculty members and 40 students.[8] The college obtained its state 
charter in 1882.[7] Students attended classes in a rented space above a 
bakery on Wylie Avenue in downtown Pittsburgh. Duquesne established itself 
at its current location on the Bluff and built the original five-story 
red brick "Old Main" in 1885. At the time, it was the highest point on 
the Pittsburgh skyline.[8] On May 27, 1911, under the leadership of Fr. 
Martin Hehir, the College became the first Catholic institution of higher 
learning in Pennsylvania to become a university. It was subsequently renamed 
"Duquesne University of the Holy Ghost", after Ange Duquesne de Menneville, 
Marquis du Quesne, the French governor of New France who first brought 
Catholic observances to the Pittsburgh area. The year 1913 saw the university 
record its first woman graduate, Sister M. Fides of the Sisters of Mercy.[9] 
In 1914, the graduate school was established.[9] The 1920s were a time 
of expansion for the developing university. The campus grew to include 
its first single-purpose academic building, Canevin Hall, as well as a 
gymnasium and a central heating plant. Institutionally, the school grew 
to include the School of Pharmacy in 1925, a School of Music in 1926, and 
a School of Education in 1929.[9] In 1928 the university celebrated its 
fiftieth anniversary and was able to rejoice in the fact that it was now 
both financially solvent and enrollment had reached an all-time high. Hard 
times, however, came with the Wall Street Crash of 1929; plans for expansion 
had to be shelved.[9] The beloved Fr. Hehir was succeeded in 1931 by Fr. 
J. J. Callahan.[9] Through Fr. Callahan was not as able an administration 
as Fr. Hehir, his tenure did see the university add numerous new programs, 
a short-lived School for the Unemployed, and, in 1937, the Nursing School.[9] 
The university's sports programs also thrived during the Depression era, 
with some of the greatest triumphs of the basketball and football teams 
occurring in that time period—a 6–0 football defeat of Pitt in 1936 was 
a high point of student exuberance.[9] A university library was completed 
in 1940.[9] Some of the darkest years of the university's history passed 
during World War II, when the university was led by the young Fr. Raymond 
Kirk. The school's enrollment, which had been 3,100 in 1940, dropped to 
an all-time low in the summer of 1944, with a mere one thousand students 
enrolled.[9] Fr. Kirk's health broke under the strain of leading the school 
through such struggles, and he was relieved of his duties by Fr. Francis 
P. Smith in 1946.[9] After the war, the school faced a wave of veterans 
seeking higher education. In contrast to the lean war-time years, the 1949 
enrollment peaked at 5,500, and space became an issue. Fr. Smith took advantage 
of the Lanham Act, which allowed him to acquire three barracks-type buildings 
from Army surplus. The science curriculum was expanded, and the School 
of Business Administration saw its enrollment rise to over two thousand.[9] 
Also during this time, a campus beautification project was implemented 
and WDUQ, Pittsburgh's first college radio station, was founded.[9] An 
ambitious campus expansion plan was proposed by Fr. Vernon F. Gallagher 
in 1952. Assumption Hall, the first student dormitory, was opened in 1954, 
and Rockwell Hall was dedicated in November 1958, housing the schools of 
business and law. It was during the tenure of Fr. Henry J. McAnulty that 
Fr. Gallagher's ambitious plans were put to action. Between 1959 and 1980, 
the university renovated or constructed various buildings to form the academic 
infrastructure of the campus. Among these are College Hall, the music school 
and the library, as well as a new Student Union and Mellon Hall, along 
with four more dormitories. Although Fr. McAnulty's years as president 
saw tremendous expansion, a financial crisis in 1970 nearly forced the 
closure of the university. Students rallied to the cause, however, and 
set a goal of raising one million dollars to "Save Duquesne University". 
Students engaged in door-to-door fundraising and gathered nearly $600,000, 
enough to keep Duquesne afloat until the end of the crisis in 1973.[10] 
It was also during Fr. McAnulty's time as president that Duquesne University 
played an important role in the shaping of the Catholic Charismatic Renewal, 
which has its roots in a retreat of several faculty members and students 
held in February 1967.[11] McAnulty was succeeded by Fr. Donald S. Nesti. 
Fr. Nesti's tenure in the 1980s saw construction begin on the A. J. Palumbo 
Center, which was dedicated in 1988, as well as an expansion of the law 
school. It was under the presidency of Dr. John E. Murray, Jr., the university's 
first lay president, that the university developed into its modern institutional 
and physical form.[12] Between 1988 and 2001, the University opened its 
first new schools in 50 years, including the Rangos School of Health Sciences, 
the Bayer School of Natural and Environmental Sciences, and the School 
of Leadership and Professional Advancement.[13][14] Duquesne University 
continues to expand with its completion of the Power Center, a mixed-use 
development project on Forbes Avenue, and a new residence hall, which was 
completed in 2012.[15] The Duquesne University coat of arms was modified 
from that of the family of its namesake, the Marquis du Quesne. A red book 
was added to adapt the arms of a French governor to that of a university. 
The coat of arms was designed by a Spiritan father and alumnus, Father 
John F. Malloy. They were then examined and partly revised by Pierre de 
Chaignon la Rose, a prominent ecclesiastical heraldic artist at the time. 
The design was adopted early in 1923 and used for the first time carved 
in high relief above Canevin Hall, then under construction. The first time 
the arms were incorporated into the seal of the university was for the 
commencement program of 1926.[16] The formal heraldic blazon of the arms 
is as follows: Argent, a lion sable armed and langued gules holding a book 
of the same edged or; on a chief party per pale azure and of the third, 
a dove displayed of the first, areoled of the fourth; motto, "Spiritus 
est qui vivificat."[17] Alumnus Joseph Carl Breil, class of 1888, notable 
as being the first person to compose a score specifically for a motion 
picture, also composed the music for Duquesne University's alma mater. 
Father John F. Malloy, who also designed the university coat of arms, wrote 
the lyrics. The first performance of the song was in October 1920.[18] 
The Duquesne University class ring was first adopted in the 1920s, the 
same decade as the seal and alma mater. The first incarnation was approved 
by a 1925 student committee, and was an "octagonal deep blue stone held 
in place by four corner prongs."[19] Two years later, another student committee 
replaced the blue stone with a synthetic ruby. The ring's design continued 
to evolve until 1936, as the prongs were replaced with a continuous metal 
bezel. The words "Duquesne", "University", and "Pittsburgh", accompanied 
the graduation year around the four sides of the bezel, and the shank on 
both sides was decorated with a motif adapted from the university's coat 
of arms. Originally an option, the embossed gold Gothic initial "D" became 
standard in the late 1930s. The Duquesne alumni website notes, "The golden 
initial, oversized stone and octagonal shape make the Duquesne ring stand 
out from those of other colleges and universities."[19] Duquesne University 
has more than tripled in size from its early 12.5-acre (50,590 m2) site 
on Boyd's Hill to its present 49-acre (198,300 m2) main campus in Pittsburgh's 
Uptown neighborhood.[20] Of the 31 buildings that make up the Bluff campus,[3] 
several are recent constructions or renovations, including a health sciences 
facility (Rangos Hall), two recording studios, two parking garages, a multipurpose 
recreation center (Power Center), and a theater-classroom complex (Bayer 
Hall). The "Old Main" Administration Building was the first structure to 
be constructed on campus. The Victorian Gothic structure is still used 
to house the administrative offices of the University. Canevin Hall, named 
after bishop of Pittsburgh Regis Canevin, was constructed in 1922 and is 
the oldest classroom building on campus; it was renovated in 1968 and again 
in 2009. These two buildings, as well Bayer Hall, the Richard King Mellon 
Hall of Science (designed by Ludwig Mies van der Rohe), and the Victorian 
Laval House, are at the west end of Academic Walk, a thoroughfare that 
provides pedestrian-only access to most of the campus, including the Student 
Union. The Union, which houses meeting rooms, three dining facilities, 
a Starbucks, a PNC branch, a recreation center, and an art gallery, is 
the center of campus life and student activities.[21] Located on the northern 
side of campus is the Gumberg Library, a five-story structure opened in 
1978 and holding extensive print and electronic collections. The newest 
campus construction is the Power Center, named in honor of Father William 
Patrick Power, the University's first president. The multipurpose recreation 
facility on Forbes Avenue between Chatham Square and Magee Street, across 
from the University's Forbes Avenue entrance, adds to the student fitness 
facilities on campus. Other spaces include a Barnes & Noble bookstore containing 
a Starbucks café, Jamba Juice, Red Ring Restaurant, and a conference center 
and ballroom.[22] The 125,000-square-foot (11,600 m2) building was completed 
in early January 2008, and is the first stage of a development that aims 
to serve both the campus community and the surrounding neighborhood.[14][23] 
In October 2010 the university announced the purchase of the eight story, 
100,000-square-foot (9,300 m2) building at 600 Fifth Avenue from Robert 
Morris University, which had been RMU's Pittsburgh Center. This adds an 
additional 87 classrooms, 1,100 seats and new music facilities. Duquesne 
plans to utilize this building to allow further expansion of its graduate 
programs as applications have doubled since 2005. Duquesne also owns four 
other buildings along Fifth Avenue bordering on the new Consol Energy Center 
where the University now plays some of its home basketball games. University 
owned WDUQ, NPR and jazz station, has relocated to offices in the Cooper 
Building and studios in Clement Hall. Until 2009, Duquesne University had 
an extension of the School of Leadership and Professional Advancement in 
Wormleysburg.[24][25] Classes were also available at Fort Indiantown Gap. 
Since 2001, Duquesne has offered an Italian campus program. The facility, 
part of extensive grounds owned and managed by the Sisters of the Holy 
Family of Nazareth, is west of downtown Rome and just beyond Vatican City.[26] 
University materials describe the campus as "a walled property enclosing 
beautiful gardens and walkways, [with] classrooms, computer facilities 
(including Internet), a small library, dining hall, recreational areas, 
and modernized living quarters complete with bathrooms in each double room."[27] 
The curriculum at the Italian campus includes history, art history, Italian 
language, philosophy, theology, sociology and economics, appropriate to 
the historical and cultural setting of Rome. The faculty of the program, 
largely constituted by visiting professors and resident scholars, is supplemented 
by a few distinguished professors from the home campus.[28] Duquesne has 
a total student enrollment of 10,368 undergraduate and graduate students.[3] 
The University has grown to comprise ten schools and other institutions, 
offering degree programs at the baccalaureate, professional, masters and 
doctoral levels in 189 academic programs. It is the only Spiritan institution 
of higher education in the world,[3] and hosts international students from 
more than eighty different countries.[4] The following institutions, along 
with their dates of founding, comprise Duquesne University: More than 3,600 
students live at Duquesne University in five residence halls and one apartment 
complex. Assumption Hall, built in the 1950s, was the first residential 
hall on Duquesne's campus, and can accommodate 300 residents. Freshman 
dormitories include St. Ann's Hall and St. Martin's Hall, which were opened 
in the 1960s. The largest dormitory facility is Duquesne Towers, which 
houses 1,200 students, including Greek organizations. Other facilities 
include Vickroy Hall, built in 1997, and Brottier Hall, which was formerly 
an apartment complex before its purchase by the university in 2004.[29] 
On March 10, 2010, the university announced plans to construct a new residence 
hall. The need for a new residence hall was explained in a news release 
as being as the result of "retention rates well above national averages 
and a desire voiced by students to remain on campus during their junior 
and senior years".[15] The new hall was constructed on the former site 
of Des Places Hall, an academic building named after Claude Poullart des 
Places, the founder of the Spiritan congregation. The hall retained its 
name and was opened for the fall 2012 semester.[30] Duquesne University 
hosts more than 150 student organizations,[31] including 19 fraternities 
and sororities. Media organizations include a student radio station, WDSR 
(Duquesne Student Radio). Founded in 1984, it broadcasts solely through 
the Internet streaming audio.[32] Other student media organizations include 
The Duquesne Duke campus newspaper and L'Esprit Du Duc, the University's 
yearbook.[33] Duquesne also hosts a Student Government Association, a student-run 
Program Council, a Commuter Council, a representative Residence Hall Association, 
an Interfraternity Council, Panhellenic Council, the Knights of Columbus, 
and numerous departmental Honor Societies.[33] Fraternities on campus include 
Alpha Delta, Alpha Epsilon Pi, Alpha Phi Delta, Alpha Tau Omega, Delta 
Chi, Gamma Phi (a local fraternity formed at Duquesne in 1916), Iota Phi 
Theta, Phi Kappa Theta, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma Nu, Sigma Tau Gamma, 
and Tau Kappa Epsilon. Sororities include Alpha Gamma Delta, Alpha Omicron 
Pi, Alpha Phi, Alpha Sigma Tau, Delta Zeta, Gamma Phi Beta, Sigma Kappa, 
and Zeta Tau Alpha.[34] Most Duquesne chapters have suites or wings on 
campus, in the Duquesne Towers building, although there are some chapters 
on campus that are not housed.[35] Duquesne is the home of the Tamburitzans, 
the longest-running multicultural song and dance company in the United 
States.[36] Their shows feature an ensemble of talented young folk artists 
dedicated to the performance and preservation of the music, songs, and 
dances of Eastern Europe and neighboring folk cultures. The performers 
are full-time students who receive substantial scholarship awards from 
the university, with additional financial aid provided by Tamburitzans 
Scholarship Endowment Funds.[36] The Mary Pappert School of Music hosts 
in-house and guest performers on a regular basis. Many music school ensembles 
also perform at Carnegie Music Hall in Oakland. Instrumental ensembles 
include the Symphony Orchestra (conductor Jeffrey Turner), the Wind Symphony 
(conductor Robert Cameron) and Symphony Band (conductor H. Carl Hess), 
the Contemporary Ensemble (conductor David Cutler), the Jazz Bands (conductors 
Sean Jones (trumpeter) and Mike Tomaro) and many other chamber groups. 
Vocal Ensembles include the Opera Workshop (director Guenko Guechev),the 
Voices of Spirit (conductor Christine Jordanoff) and the Pappert Women's 
and Men's chorales. Performances are regular for each ensemble, and tours 
abroad are common for many. The University also maintains three theater 
groups: the Red Masquers, Spotlight Musical Theatre Company, and the Medieval 
and Renaissance Players. The Masquers annually perform three main-stage 
plays, generally one classical, one modern, and one contemporary. In addition, 
the group performs two sets of one-act plays. "Premieres", which are student-written, 
are performed in the winter, while in the spring "One Acts for Charity" 
are selected from the works of professional playwrights. In recent years, 
the company has also participated in the Pittsburgh Monologue Project.[37] 
Spotlight is a musical theatre company that produces two full-length Broadway 
musicals each year.[38] The Renaissance and Medieval Players offer audiences 
a historical Medieval experience, performing religious plays, morality 
plays, and farces from the English Medieval and Early Renaissance periods, 
sometimes working in conjunction with the Red Masquers.[39] The Duquesne 
Dukes play varsity football, men's and women's basketball, men's and women's 
cross country, men's and women's soccer, women's swimming, men's and women's 
tennis, men's and women's outdoor track and field, women's indoor track 
and field, women's lacrosse, women's rowing, and women's volleyball at 
the National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I level and in either 
the Atlantic 10 Conference[40][41] or the Northeast Conference (football 
only). In recent years, Duquesne football was a member of the NCAA Division 
I Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference.[42] Duquesne has a club ice hockey 
team that plays in the College Hockey Mid-America conference — part of 
the American Collegiate Hockey Association Division I ranks. The fight 
song for Duquesne is Victory Song (Red and Blue). Duquesne was the first 
university in Pennsylvania to receive the EPA's Energy Star Combined Heat 
and Power Award for its natural gas turbine located on campus. Duquesne 
also uses an innovative ice cooling system that cools buildings and reduces 
peak energy demand. Duquesne's new Power Center facility has also achieved 
a LEED Silver Rating.[43] Duquesne also has a specialized MBA with a focus 
on sustainability. Furthermore, Duquesne's Center for Environmental Research 
and Education (CERE) offers undergraduate and graduate degrees in environmental 
science and management.[43] Duquesne has been evaluated by the 2009 and 
2010 College Sustainability Report Card.[44] Like many US universities, 
Duquesne University has faced criticism for what has been described as 
hire-and-fire treatment of academics not on tenure track. Adjunct faculty 
have complained that they are paid approximately $12,000 annually for full-time 
work without the right to receive or buy into benefits or healthcare, and 
with the risk of their anticipated work being terminated with as little 
as two weeks' notice.[45] Following concern that any complaints to administrators 
could lead to adjunct professors being dismissed, adjunct faculty have 
sought to unionize by joining the United Steelworkers union.[46] Particular 
criticism was applied to the university after the death of Margaret Mary 
Vojtko, an adjunct who was removed by campus police from her office, where 
she had been sleeping as she could not afford to heat her house while paying 
for chemotherapy.[47] On a contract that did not pay for insurance, her 
pay had recently been cut by approximately a third. The University has 
resisted attempts by adjunct faculty to join unions,[48] arguing that its 
academic staff are exempt from employee rights due to its status as a religious 
institution. Former university president Charles Dougherty suggested that 
unionization "could lead to the compromise or loss of our Catholic and 
Spiritan identity".[49] Duquesne University's Institutional Research and 
Planning records list over 79,000 living alumni,[3] and the School of Law 
reports that almost 30 percent of the practicing lawyers in western Pennsylvania 
are graduates of Duquesne.[42] Duquesne has many alumni in the media and 
sports fields. These include John Clayton, a writer and reporter for ESPN; 
actor Tom Atkins; and Terry McGovern, the television actor, radio personality, 
voice-over specialist, and acting instructor. German filmmaker Werner Herzog 
attended Duquesne, but did not graduate.[50] Notable academic activist 
and British political luminary Sanaz Raji attended the university, prior 
to managing a European Union-funded research team exploring the role of 
Arab transnational media in the diaspora. Sports personalities Leigh Bodden, 
Chip Ganassi, Mike James, baseball hall-of-famer Cumberland Posey, and 
Chuck Cooper, the first African-American basketball player to be drafted 
in the NBA, all graduated from Duquesne, as did both the founder and current 
owner of the Pittsburgh Steelers, Art and Dan Rooney. Singer Bobby Vinton, 
MLB pitcher Joe Beimel, and big-band composer Sammy Nestico are also alumni. 
Norm Nixon, who holds the all-time assist record for the Duquesne Dukes, 
played for the Los Angeles Lakers. Philadelphia 76ers point guard TJ McConnell 
spent two years playing for the Dukes. Duquesne has graduated at least 
two bishops and two cardinals in the Roman Catholic Church, including Bishops 
Vincent Leonard, the current ordinary of the Roman Catholic Diocese of 
Pittsburgh, David Zubik, and Cardinals Daniel DiNardo and Adam Maida. Figures 
in politics include Donald A. Bailey, Father James Cox, former Director 
of the CIA General Michael V. Hayden, former Lieutenant Governor of Pennsylvania 
Catherine Baker Knoll, Pennsylvania Representative Bud Shuster, and United 
