Red, Black[1] The Duquesne Country and Athletic Club was a professional 
football team based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania from 1895 until 1900. The 
team was considered one of the best, if not the best, professional football 
teams in the country from 1898 until 1900. However the team is most famous 
for being the first football franchise to be owned by an individual, William 
Chase Temple.[2] The Duquesne Country and Athletic Club, started playing 
in 1895 and at first intended to use only amateur players. However, after 
four games, before playing the Pittsburgh Athletic Club, they began hiring 
stars and soon became the most professional team in the city.[3] Duquesne 
fielded the best team in Pittsburgh since 1895. In 1898 the Duquesnes decided 
to build an even better team. After the 1897 season, the club had signed 
a number of good players to contracts for the next year. However at this 
time, many of the players went into the army in the spring to fight in 
the Spanish–American War. This led the Duquesnes to sign replacements for 
those players in the army. While this at first looked to be a bad sign 
for Duquesne for the 1898 season, it later became a blessing in disguise. 
Many of replacement player that were signed proved to perform better than 
the originals. Then when the war ended in just a few short months and the 
original players returned home, the Duquesnes suddenly found themselves 
with a load of expensive stars. In fact it became apparent that the bench-warmers 
for the Duquesnes would actually be star players on lesser teams. Those 
players; tight end Tommy Randolph, offensive tackle Otto Wagonhurst, offensive 
guard John Wienstein, and running back Don McNeil would have been regulars 
for the rival Pittsburgh Athletic Club.[1][4] At the end of the 1898 season, 
Dave Berry, the manager of the Latrobe Athletic Association came up with 
the idea fielding a team composed of best players, drawn from all of the 
other area teams. That team would then play the Duquesnes in an all-star 
game. Berry was able to get many of the players that he wanted for his 
all-star team, but not all of them. In Greensburg, local leaders urged 
players from the Greensburg Athletic Association not to play in the game. 
Also many other players had baseball to prepare for and did not bother 
with the game. However the game was a go and was arranged for Saturday, 
December 3 at Exposition Park. The Duquesnes would go on to win the game 
16-0.[1][4] When it became apparent around this time that the Duquesnes 
could not survive financially while paying its players, William C. Temple, 
its chairman, took over the team payments becoming the first known individual 
club owner. However, in early days of professional football, the public 
wrongly viewed everyone who was playing for an athletic club, as an amateur. 
So the date of Temple becoming the first owner is still in question, but 
it is estimated by historians to be between 1898 and 1901.[3] Several histories 
have tabbed the 1898 season, when the team was suddenly confronted with 
more players under contract than they'd expected. While others argue for 
1899, when several new stars were hired to keep the team on top. The NFL's 
official chronology states that in 1900 Temple took over the D.C. & A.C. 
payments.[5] Temple, a local steel magnate, was also a part owner and president 
of the Pittsburgh Pirates.[4] The Duquesnes had become the best pro team 
in Pennsylvania and, almost certainly, in the country. In 1900, A.C. Dinkey 
stole most of the Duquesne players, as well as Temple, for his Homestead 
Library & Athletic Club, an organization that had existed since 1894 in 
the Pittsburgh suburb of Homestead, Pennsylvania, offering them higher 
salaries. Like the Duquesnes, that team became a national powerhouse in 
football for the next two years.[3] Meanwhile, Duquesne in 1900 found itself 
posting a financial loss, resulting in the club to fold its professional 
