The Durham Bulls are a Triple-A minor league baseball team that currently 
plays in the International League. The Bulls play their home games at Durham 
Bulls Athletic Park located in the downtown area of Durham, North Carolina. 
Durham Bulls Athletic Park is often called the "DBAP" or "D-Bap". The Bulls 
are the Triple-A affiliate of the Tampa Bay Rays. Established in 1902 as 
the Durham Tobacconists and disbanded many times over the years, the Bulls 
became internationally famous following the release of the 1988 movie Bull 
Durham starring Kevin Costner, Tim Robbins, and Susan Sarandon. Since 1991, 
the team has been owned by the Raleigh-based Capitol Broadcasting Company. 
The Durham Bulls are operated by the operating entity Durham Bulls Baseball 
Club, Inc. which is also owned by the Capitol Broadcasting Company. The 
Bulls were founded in 1902 as the Durham Tobacconists. The official date 
when the franchise formed was March 18, with William G. Bramham, later 
President of the National Association of Professional Baseball Leagues 
(Minor League Baseball), as the first owner. The Tobacconists took the 
field for the first time on April 24 in an exhibition game against Trinity 
College. Their first game in the North Carolina League was at Charlotte 
on May 5 against the Hornets, and their first home game was against the 
New Bern Truckers on May 12. The league, however, folded in July, not having 
played a full season.[1] In December 1912, the Durham Tobacconists re-formed 
as the Durham Bulls in the North Carolina State League. Their first game 
was on April 24, 1913 at Hanes Field on the Trinity College campus (now 
the East Campus of Duke University). They defeated the Raleigh Capitals 
7-4. On May 30, 1917, however, the North Carolina State League folded due 
to America's joining of the Allied Powers during World War I. The Bulls 
were declared league champions, even though the season was shortened to 
only 36 games.[1] On October 31, 1919, the Bulls joined the Piedmont League, 
a minor league with clubs scattered around Virginia and North Carolina. 
Seven years later, in 1926, the team moved from Hanes Field to El Toro 
Park. The park was dedicated on July 26 by the Commissioner of Baseball 
Kenesaw Mountain Landis, who put on a show by riding a real bull, the team 
mascot, onto the playing field.[1] Six years later, in 1932, the team became 
affiliated with the National League's Philadelphia Phillies, the first 
of ten teams that the Bulls have been affiliated with. The next year, the 
city of Durham purchased El Toro Park, renaming it the Durham Athletic 
Park after the 1933 season. The Bulls were unable to operate for the 1934 
and 1935 seasons due to the Great Depression. Meanwhile, a team from Wilmington, 
North Carolina who also played in the Piedmont League and was a Cincinnati 
Reds affiliate called the Wilmington Pirates relocated to Durham and was 
going to replace the Bulls. The Bulls franchise, however, was re-activated 
by having the operations of the Wilmington ball club integrated into the 
Bulls. The Reds then switched affiliations from the former Wilmington ball 
club to the Bulls and the Bulls continued as the same franchise. On the 
evening of June 17, 1939, the Durham Athletic Park burned to the ground, 
hours after the Bulls defeated the Portsmouth Cubs 7-3. The groundskeeper, 
Walter Williams, who was asleep under the grandstand when the blaze began, 
was able to escape, though the fire nearly killed him. Damage costs were 
more than $100,000. In a remarkable two-week turnaround, Durham Athletic 
Park was functioning again by July 2, with the old wooden grandstand replaced 
by concrete and steel. Temporary bleachers were also added and seated 1,000. 
The crowd that day saw the Bulls beat the Charlotte Hornets 11-4.[1] A 
new Durham Athletic Park was finally completed in April 1940, in time for 
an exhibition game between the Cincinnati Reds and Boston Red Sox, which 
attracted 5,574 fans. Only 1,587 turned out ten days later for the Bulls' 
first game of the season. On September 5, 1943, the last-place Bulls played 
their last Piedmont League game, beating Richmond 15-5. The following year, 
the Piedmont League became an all-Virginia league, and there was no baseball 
in Durham in 1944.[2] In 1945, a second Carolina League formed. On April 
27 the reactivated Bulls played their first game in the new league, defeating 
the Burlington Bees 5-0. Three years later, in September 1948, Tom Wright, 
a former Bulls outfielder, became the first Carolina League player to make 
it to the majors when he debuted with the Boston Red Sox. Three years after 
that, the Bulls helped make history when their 5-4 loss to the Danville 
Leafs featured the first black player in Carolina League history, Percy 
Miller Jr., who played for the Leafs.[2] It would not be until April 18, 
1957 that the Bulls fielded African-American players, when third baseman 
Bubba Morton and pitcher Ted Richardson took the field in a loss to Greensboro. 
That season also saw the first Carolina League All-Star game played in 
Durham.[2] In 1967, the Bulls became a New York Mets affiliate. One year 
later, the Bulls were renamed the Raleigh-Durham Mets. The franchise was 
renamed because the Bulls acquired the nearby Raleigh Pirates and merged 
with them. The team still maintained their affiliation with the Mets, playing 
half of their home games at Durham Athletic Park and half at Devereaux 
Meadow in Raleigh. The team switched affiliations from the Mets to the 
Philadelphia Phillies and were renamed the Raleigh-Durham Phillies for 
the 1969 season. The team hadn’t been affiliated with the Phillies since 
the 1932 season. The Phillies abandoned the franchise and the team became 
independent, renaming themselves the Raleigh-Durham Triangles for the 1970 
season. The team played as the Triangles from 1970–1971 and remained independent 
for both seasons. The franchise disbanded again before the 1972 season, 
and baseball would not return to Durham until 1980. Also, minor league 
baseball in Raleigh ended for good. For the 1980 season, the Raleigh-Durham 
Triangles were reformed and renamed back to the Durham Bulls. On June 22 
of that same year, the local CBS affiliate, then WTVD in Durham, broadcast 
the Bulls game locally, the first time that the Bulls had ever been featured 
on television.[2] The team also became an affiliate of the Atlanta Braves 
that season and would remain so until 1998.[3] Team owner Miles Wolff began 
pushing for a new ballpark for the Bulls in 1988 in order to attract Triple-A 
baseball, but stadium plans were pushed back for years. When the film Bull 
Durham was released in mid-1988, it led to a huge interest in the team 
and their ballpark. Both the real Bulls and their movie counterparts played 
in the High-A Carolina League in the late 1980s. On August 30, 1990, a 
crowd of 6,202 made the Bulls the first Class-A team in history to pass 
the 300,000 mark in attendance for a season.[4] The Bulls were sold to 
the Raleigh-based Capitol Broadcasting Company in 1991. Capitol president 
Jim Goodmon initially proposed building the new stadium near Raleigh-Durham 
International Airport, but after city leaders in Durham offered to renovate 
the old ballpark or help build a new stadium, the current downtown Durham 
site was secured.[4] In July 1992, the Bulls unveiled their current mascot, 
Wool E. Bull, a moniker submitted by Durham resident Jim Vickery out of 
a pool of 500, inspired by the otherwise unrelated novelty song oldie, 
"Wooly Bully". The "E" in his name stands for "education." The next June, 
the Bulls retired the number 18 belonging to Joe Morgan, the only hall 
of famer to play for the Bulls, who was a member of the 1963 club. Morgan's 
number remained the only one retired by the club for many years; he attended 
the ceremony where his number was retired. The team also retained the snorting 
bull sign that was used in Bull Durham and it remained at Durham Athletic 
Park until both team and sign left after the 1994 season. Durham Bulls 
Athletic Park opened its doors in 1995, complete with a new snorting bull 
sign. The 1997 season was the final one in which the Bulls were an affiliate 
of the Atlanta Braves and also their last year in the High-A Carolina League. 
In 1998, the franchise moved two levels up to Triple-A and joined the International 
League (IL), in part because of their popularity as the main team in Bull 
Durham, and also because the Triple-A leagues needed two more teams to 
accommodate affiliates for the Major League Baseball expansion teams Tampa 
Bay Devil Rays and Arizona Diamondbacks. Wolff's dream of attracting Triple-A 
baseball came true when the Bulls became the Triple-A affiliate of the 
Tampa Bay Devil Rays (now Tampa Bay Rays), who have remained their parent 
club ever since. DBAP expanded its seating capacity due to the move. 1998 
also saw the Bulls play their first game outside the United States when 
they played road games against the Ottawa Lynx (now the Lehigh Valley IronPigs), 
though it would be another year before they recorded their first win in 
Canada. The Bulls' second appearance on film was in The Rookie, released 
in 2002. It starred Dennis Quaid as Jim Morris, a baseball pitcher who 
is now retired. The real Jim Morris did play for the Bulls briefly during 
the 1999 season and was then called up to the major leagues on September 
18, 1999 at the age of 35. He made his debut against Royce Clayton of the 
Texas Rangers, striking him out on four pitches. Morris made four more 
appearances later that year. The 2001 season saw the Bulls set single-game 
(10,916 on July 23) and full-season (505,319 set on September 1) attendance 
records. The Bulls celebrated their 100th anniversary season in 2002. On 
September 12, 2002, the Bulls won their first IL championship, defeating 
the Buffalo Bisons 2-0 for the Governors' Cup. In 2003, Durham became the 
first club in the 119-year history of the championship to sweep back-to-back 
final playoff series, defeating the Pawtucket Red Sox.[4] After missing 
the playoffs for the 2005 and 2006 seasons, the Bulls captured the South 
Division title with an 80-64 regular season record. Durham defeated the 
Toledo Mud Hens in a three-game sweep during the first round of the playoffs, 
but were defeated three games to two in the Governors' Cup Final by the 
Richmond Braves (now Gwinnett Braves).[4] In 2008, with a record of 74-70 
the Bulls would once again win the South Division. After defeating the 
Louisville Bats three games to one in the first round, the Bulls again 
lost the championship, this time in four games to the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre 
Yankees. In 2009, they won the division for a third consecutive season 
with an 83-61 record. Facing the Louisville Bats in the first round again, 
the Bulls were victorious, winning the series in five games. The third 
time was the charm for the Bulls in the Governors' Cup final, as they dethroned 
the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Yankees in three games to win the championship, 
their third since joining the International League. The Bulls advanced 
to the Triple-A Baseball National Championship Game against the champions 
of the Pacific Coast League for the first time in team history, as that 
championship game did not exist at the time of the Bulls' previous two 
Governors' Cup championships. Facing the Memphis Redbirds, the Bulls would 
win their first class championship, scoring the winning run on a wild pitch 
in the bottom half of the eleventh inning. Also in 2009, the Bulls retired 
the number 8 of Crash Davis, the main character of Bull Durham, which was 
their first number retirement in sixteen years. On August 19, 2010, the 
Bulls won their fourth straight division championship. Almost two weeks 
later, the Bulls set the Triple-A wins record winning their 84th game of 
the 2010 season. On August 2, 2011, the Bulls defeated the Charlotte Knights, 
the Chicago White Sox affiliate for their 6,000th win in franchise history 
with a final score of 18-3. The team retired the number 20 of longtime 
general manager Bill Evers the following year. In 2013, the team won its 
fourth Governors' Cup title, defeating the Pawtucket Red Sox in the International 
League Final. The same year the number 10, belonging to former Bulls player 
Chipper Jones, was retired. Following a $20 million renovation to the DBAP, 
the Bulls hosted the 27th Triple-A All-Star Game on July 16, 2014 which 
saw the International League prevail 7-3 over the Pacific Coast League. 
Charlie Montoyo became the franchise's all-time winningest manager on July 
21, earning his 614th victory to pass Bill Evers. On August 31, 2014, the 
Bulls again broke their all-time paid attendance record, finishing the 
year with a cumulative mark of 533,033. Before the 2015 season, Jared Sandberg 
was named the fourth manager in the team's Triple-A history, replacing 
Montoyo.[5] The 2015 season saw the Bulls set both a new single-game paid 
attendance record on July 4, and a new single-season paid attendance record, 
finishing with a cumulative mark of 554,788.[6] In 2016, the Bulls had 
the franchise's second-highest attendance numbers and retired Montoyo's 
number 25. Overall, the team had their fourth losing season since 1998 
and missed the playoffs.[7] Notable players to pass through the franchise 
include: The most notable baseball player to have once played for the Bulls 
is Hall of Famer Joe Morgan. Morgan spent part of the 1963 season with 
the Bulls before earning a promotion to the Houston Colt 45s (Houston Astros). 
His number 18 was retired by the team on August 9, 2002, during a postgame 
ceremony which he attended. Danny Gans, a Las Vegas entertainer and former 
minor league baseball player, played Bulls' third baseman in Bull Durham. 
In 2012, Hideki Matsui, former New York Yankee & 2009 World Series MVP, 
also played for the team. North Carolina State League Piedmont League Carolina 
League (Note: The Bulls played as the Raleigh-Durham Mets in 1968 and the 
Raleigh-Durham Phillies in 1969) International League The Bulls have won 
the Governors' Cup (the championship of the IL) four times, and have played 
in the championship series nine times. Listed below are former Bulls broadcasters 
who made it to the MLB. Also listed are the teams they broadcast for. Pitchers 
Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches 7-day disabled list * On 
Tampa Bay Rays 40-man roster # Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve list ‡ Restricted 
list § Suspended list † Temporary inactive list Roster updated September 
5, 2016 Transactions → More MiLB rosters → Tampa Bay Rays minor league 
players The Durham Bulls also created a program after they went to Triple-A 
status called Explorer Post 50. Explorer Post 50 is a program that is similar 
to Explorer Post 5 which is located at WRAL-TV in Raleigh, North Carolina. 
Explorer Post 50 is a youth-based television production group with students 
who have completed middle-school and are 14 to 20 years old. Explorer Post 
50 provides all of the camera work for Durham Bulls TV on RTN, replays 
and "fan cams" on the video board in left field, and the highlights of 
all of the Durham Bulls home games. Explorer teaches youth how to produce 
a live broadcast, including graphics, replays, graphic scores aka "Fox 
Box", camera work, producing, and directing. Two students from Explorer 
Post 50 have been hired by ESPN, one at ESPN Regional Television and another 
at ESPN Master Control. Starting in the 2008 season, Explorer Post 50 hands 
out academic scholarships to the graduating seniors of the program who 
