A sports dynasty is a team or individual that dominates their sport or 
league for an extended length of time. The definition of dynasty by some 
academics[who?] implies a single leader over the bulk of that period. The 
designation should not automatically be used for a string of several dominant 
years in a row, unless the number of years that the league has existed 
is few, making several years of dominance a large percentage. It implies[according 
to whom?] an extended length of time. Sometimes such dominance is often 
only realized in retrospect.[citation needed] The most widely accepted 
sports dynasties are those with the majority of championships over a very 
long period of time, either consecutively and / or with interruptions, 
e.g. the UCLA Bruins men's basketball team's seven straight national championships 
from 1964 to 1975 and 10 national championships during the reign of coach 
John Wooden, or the Princeton University men's football team from the pre-NCAA 
football years of the 1890s (it was one of the two teams to play the first 
college football game) all the way until 1950, during which they won 28 
national championships, or the Yale University men's football team, which 
won 27 recognized national football championships between 1872 and 1926.[1] 
The Port Stephens Pythons in Australian limited-overs cricket have also 
forged their own Dynasty winning eleven Major Premierships from fifteen 
Grand Final appearances in their 19-year history in the top grade. They 
have even managed to secure "three-peat" premierships on three separate 
occasions which outshines that of the Chicago Bulls throughout the 90s 
and the LA Lakers in the start of the millennium.[2] Some leagues maintain 
official lists of dynasties, often as part of a hall of fame (e.g., National 
Hockey League), but in many cases, whether a team has achieved a dynasty 
is subjective. This can result in frequent topic of debate among sports 
fans due to lack of consensus and agreement in the many different variables 
and criteria that fans may use to define a sports dynasty. [37][38] [42] 
[43] [44] The problems inherent in identifying sports dynasties are exacerbated 
in NCAA Football Bowl Subdivision, where the national champion is determined, 
at least in part, by poll rather than through a tournament. These polls, 
however, are largely based on win-loss records, thereby relying on minimal 
subjectivity. When fans of a sport cannot agree on which team within a 
league or other organization should be considered as holding that organization's 
championship, discussing whether a team has become a dynasty is more difficult. 
Because of these problems, teams that consistently win their conference 
championship and are frequently in contention for national championships 
are termed dynasties more often than a similarly performing team in another 
sport or division might. Dynasty status is subjective, and is not recognized 
by any official organization, including the NCAA. [107] The National Hockey 
League and the Hockey Hall of Fame officially recognize nine dynasty teams:[118][119] 
The Soviet Championship League is now known as the Kontinental Hockey League. 
Most disputes about dynasties relate to teams that dominated within a conference 
or division, but either failed to win championships or infrequently won 
championships. This is exacerbated in NCAA Football Bowl Subdivision (formerly 
Division I-A), where the national champion is determined, at least in part, 
by poll rather than through a tournament. a The 1916 and 1917 VFA seasons 
were cancelled due to World War I b The Football League suspended operations 
between 1939–40 and 1945–46 inclusive due to World War II and planning 
difficulties in its aftermath. c The Allied conquest of Italy caused normal 
Serie A football to be suspended between 1943–44 and 1945–46, though the 
