Elwyn Brooks "E. B." White (July 11, 1899 – October 1, 1985)[1] was an 
American writer. He was a contributor to The New Yorker magazine and a 
co-author of the English language style guide The Elements of Style, which 
is commonly known as "Strunk & White". He also wrote books for children, 
including Stuart Little (1945), Charlotte's Web (1952), and The Trumpet 
of the Swan (1970). Charlotte's Web was voted the top children's novel 
in a 2012 survey of School Library Journal readers, an accomplishment repeated 
from earlier surveys.[2] White was born in Mount Vernon, New York, the 
youngest child of Samuel Tilly White, the president of a piano firm, and 
Jessie Hart White, the daughter of Scottish-American painter William Hart.[3] 
Elwyn's older brother Stanley Hart White, known as Stan, a professor of 
Landscape Architecture and inventor of the Vertical Garden, was influential 
as a child teaching E. B. White to read and explore the natural world.[4] 
He served in the army before going to college. White graduated from Cornell 
University with a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1921. He picked up the nickname 
"Andy" at Cornell University, where tradition confers that moniker on any 
male student surnamed White, after Cornell co-founder Andrew Dickson White. 
While at Cornell, he worked as editor of The Cornell Daily Sun with classmate 
Allison Danzig, who later became a sportswriter for The New York Times. 
White was also a member of the Aleph Samach[5] and Quill and Dagger societies 
and Phi Gamma Delta (FIJI). White worked for the United Press (currently 
the United Press International) and the American Legion News Service in 
1921 and 1922. Then he became a cub reporter for The Seattle Times in 1922 
and 1923. Once, when White was stuck on writing a story, a Times editor 
said, "Just say the words."[6] He then worked for two years with the Frank 
Seaman advertising agency as a production assistant and copywriter[7] before 
returning to New York City in 1924. Not long after The New Yorker was founded 
in 1925, White submitted manuscripts to it. Katharine Angell, the literary 
editor, recommended to magazine editor and founder Harold Ross that White 
be taken on as staff. However, it took months to convince him to come to 
a meeting at the office and further weeks to convince him to agree to work 
on the premises. Eventually he agreed to work in the office on Thursdays.[8] 
A few years later in 1929, White and Angell were married. They had a son, 
Joel White, a naval architect and boat builder, who owned Brooklin Boat 
Yard in Brooklin, Maine. Katharine's son from her first marriage, Roger 
Angell, has spent decades as a fiction editor for The New Yorker and is 
well known as the magazine's baseball writer. James Thurber described White 
as being a quiet man, disliking publicity, who during his time at The New 
Yorker would slip out of his office via the fire escape to a nearby branch 
of Schrafft's to avoid visitors whom he didn't know. Most of us, out of 
a politeness made up of faint curiosity and profound resignation, go out 
to meet the smiling stranger with a gesture of surrender and a fixed grin, 
but White has always taken to the fire escape. He has avoided the Man in 
the Reception Room as he has avoided the interviewer, the photographer, 
the microphone, the rostrum, the literary tea, and the Stork Club. His 
life is his own. He is the only writer of prominence I know of who could 
walk through the Algonquin lobby or between the tables at Jack and Charlie's 
and be recognized only by his friends. White died on October 1, 1985, suffering 
from Alzheimer's disease, at his farm home in North Brooklin, Maine.[1] 
He is buried in the Brooklin Cemetery beside his wife Katharine, who died 
in 1977.[9] He published his first article in The New Yorker magazine in 
1925, then joined the staff in 1927 and continued to contribute for around 
six decades. Best recognized for his essays and unsigned "Notes and Comment" 
pieces, he gradually became the most important contributor to The New Yorker 
at a time when it was arguably the most important American literary magazine. 
From the beginning to the end of his career at The New Yorker, he frequently 
provided what the magazine calls "Newsbreaks" (short, witty comments on 
oddly worded printed items from many sources) under various categories 
such as "Block That Metaphor". He also served as a columnist for Harper's 
Magazine from 1938 to 1943. In 1949, White published Here Is New York, 
a short book based upon a Holiday magazine article that he had been asked 
to write. The article reflects the writer's appreciation of a city that 
provides its residents with both "the gift of loneliness and the gift of 
privacy", and concludes with a dark note touching upon the forces that 
may destroy the city that the writer loves. This prescient "love letter" 
to the city was re-published in 1999 on the one hundredth anniversary of 
his birth, with an introduction by his stepson, Roger Angell. In 1959, 
White edited and updated The Elements of Style. This handbook of grammatical 
and stylistic guidance for writers of American English had been written 
and published in 1918 by William Strunk, Jr., one of White's professors 
at Cornell. White's rework of the book was extremely well received, and 
further editions of the work followed in 1972, 1979, and 1999. Maira Kalman 
illustrated an edition in 2005. That same year, a New York composer named 
Nico Muhly premiered a short opera based on the book. The volume is a standard 
tool for students and writers and remains required reading in many composition 
classes. The complete history of The Elements of Style is detailed in Mark 
Garvey's Stylized: A Slightly Obsessive History of Strunk & White's The 
Elements of Style. In 1978, White won a special Pulitzer Prize citing "his 
letters, essays and the full body of his work".[10] Other awards he received 
included a Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1963 and memberships in a variety 
of literary societies throughout the United States. The 1973 Oscar-nominated 
Canadian animated short, The Family That Dwelt Apart, is narrated by White 
and based on his short story of the same name.[11] In the late 1930s, White 
turned his hand to children's fiction on behalf of a niece, Janice Hart 
White. His first children's book, Stuart Little, was published in 1945, 
and Charlotte's Web appeared in 1952. Stuart Little initially received 
a lukewarm welcome from the literary community. However, both books went 
on to receive high acclaim, and Charlotte's Web received a Newbery Honor 
from the American Library Association. White received the Laura Ingalls 
Wilder Medal from the U.S. professional children's librarians in 1970, 
recognizing his "substantial and lasting contributions to children's literature". 
At the time it was awarded every five years.[12] That year he was also 
the U.S. nominee and a highly commended runner-up for the biennial, international 
Hans Christian Andersen Award, as he was again in 1976.[13][14] Also in 
1970, White's third children's novel was published, The Trumpet of the 
Swan. In 1973 it won the Sequoya Award from Oklahoma and the William Allen 
White Award from Kansas, both selected by students voting for their favorite 
book of the year. In 2012, School Library Journal sponsored a survey of 
readers which identified Charlotte's Web as top children's novel ("fictional 
title for readers 9–12" years old). The librarian who conducted it observed 
that "it is impossible to conduct a poll of this sort and expect [the novel] 
