Earl Craig Williams, Jr. (July 14, 1948 – January 28, 2013) was an American 
Major League Baseball player. Though he never played catcher in the minor 
leagues, he earned the National League's Rookie of the Year award at that 
position in 1971. Williams was born in Newark, New Jersey, and raised in 
East Orange, and then Montclair, where he was an exceptional athlete at 
Montclair High School.[1] He earned a scholarship to Ithaca College in 
upstate New York for basketball.[2] He chose baseball instead when he was 
drafted by the Milwaukee Braves in the first round of the 1965 Major League 
Baseball August Legion Draft. As Williams was a pitcher in high school, 
he made eight starts his first professional season with the Gulf Coast 
League Braves, compiling a 1-0 record and 3.10 earned run average. When 
not pitching, Williams played first base. The idea of Williams as a pitcher 
was abandoned after the 1966 season, and Williams spent most of his time 
in the Braves' farm system either at first or in the outfield. In 1970, 
he also played some third base. He debuted with the Atlanta Braves that 
September, and batted .368 in ten games split pretty evenly between first 
and third base. Williams began the 1971 season as the Braves' starting 
third baseman. By the end of May, Darrell Evans took over at third, and 
Williams began seeing more playing time at first base. On May 23, Williams 
entered a 4-0 loss to the New York Mets at Shea Stadium as a pinch hitter 
in the eighth inning, and remained in the game at catcher. It was his first 
professional experience behind the plate ever.[3] He made his first start 
behind the plate on June 20 against the Cincinnati Reds. George Foster 
led off the Reds' half of the second inning with a single, then proceeded 
to take full advantage of Williams' inexperience at his new position. Foster 
stole second, advanced to third on Williams' throwing error, then stole 
home to score the first run of the game.[4] The following day, Williams 
caught both games of a doubleheader against the Montreal Expos, and caught 
his first attempted base stealer, Rusty Staub. He ended up appearing in 
72 games at catcher, committing eight errors and catching 28% of potential 
base stealers. On September 10, Williams became the only Braves player 
besides Hank Aaron to hit a home run into the upper deck at Fulton County 
Stadium. Aaron was also the first right-handed hitter to do it, and Williams 
was the second. The feat had been preceded by the left-handed hitters Willie 
Smith and Willie Stargell.[5] Although he never developed into more than 
a poor defensive catcher, his offensive numbers – a .260 batting average, 
33 home runs and 87 runs batted in – were enough to earn him 18 of 24 first 
place votes to become the first Brave to win the Rookie of the Year Award 
since Sam Jethroe in 1950 with what were then the Boston Braves. The other 
first place votes went to Philadelphia Phillies centerfielder Willie Montañez. 
Though he played some first and third also, Williams spent most of the 
1972 season catching. He had a whopping 28 passed balls that season, mostly 
due to his inability to catch Phil Niekro's knuckleball. However, he also 
had 28 home runs and 87 RBIs. Following the season, he and infield prospect 
Taylor Duncan were traded to the Baltimore Orioles for Pat Dobson, Roric 
Harrison, Davey Johnson and Johnny Oates. Many Oriole players, most notably 
ace pitcher Jim Palmer, were critical of this trade. Ironically, Palmer 
was 13-5 in games in which he pitched to Williams, and went on to win his 
first Cy Young Award in 1973. Williams batted .237 with 22 home runs and 
83 RBIs his first season in the American League. Williams reached the post 
season for the only time in his career with the Orioles in 1973 and 1974, 
losing to the Oakland Athletics in the American League Championship Series 
both years. His only post-season home run came off Ken Holtzman in the 
1973 American League Championship Series.[6] After the 1974 season, he 
was traded back to the Atlanta Braves for pitcher Jimmy Freeman. He appeared 
in just eleven games at catcher in 1975, receiving most of his playing 
time at first base. He batted .240 with a career low eleven home runs in 
his new role. He began seeing more time behind the plate again in 1976, 
however, in June his contract was sold to the Montreal Expos, with whom 
he played mostly first base. For the season, his numbers bounced back somewhat, 
as he hit seventeen home runs and drove in 55 runs. The Expos released 
Williams during Spring training 1977, and he signed with the Oakland A's 
a few days later. He split his time with the A's fairly evenly between 
catching, first base and designated hitter. He batted .241 with thirteen 
home runs and 38 RBIs his only season in Oakland. He was placed on waivers 
by the A's at the end of Spring training 1978. Failing to find a taker, 
he was released on May 17. Williams had a career .984 fielding percentage 
at catcher. His worst position was third base, where he had a .892 fielding 
percentage. Williams died of acute myeloid leukemia at home with his wife 
Linda and their daughter Raquel at their home in the Somerset section of 
Franklin Township, Somerset County, New Jersey on January 28, 2013, at 
