Earl Sidney Weaver (August 14, 1930 – January 19, 2013) was an American 
professional baseball player, Hall of Fame Major League manager, author, 
and television broadcaster. After playing in minor league baseball, he 
retired without playing in Major League Baseball (MLB). He became a minor 
league manager, and then managed in MLB for 17 years with the Baltimore 
Orioles (1968–82; 1985–86). Weaver's style of managing was summed up in 
the quote: "pitching, defense, and the three-run homer." He did not believe 
in placing emphasis on "small ball" tactics such as stolen bases, hit and 
run plays, or sacrifice bunts. He was inducted into the Baseball Hall of 
Fame in 1996. He was the son of Earl Milton Weaver, a dry cleaner who cleaned 
the uniforms of the St. Louis Cardinals and Browns, and Ethel Genieve Wakefield. 
After playing for Beaumont High School in his hometown, St. Louis, Missouri, 
the 17-year-old Weaver was signed by the St. Louis Cardinals in 1948 as 
a second baseman. A slick fielder but never much of a hitter, he worked 
his way up to the Texas League Houston Buffaloes (two steps below the majors) 
in 1951, but never made the Major League club. Weaver was later traded 
to the Pittsburgh Pirates organization, then moved on to the Orioles, where 
he began his managing career. Hall of Fame pitcher Jim Palmer, who battled 
with his manager on a regular basis, once noted: "The only thing that Earl 
knows about a curve ball is he couldn't hit it."[1] After Palmer's skills 
began to decline and he was no longer a regular starter, Weaver defended 
his actions by claiming he'd given Palmer "more chances than my ex-wife."[citation 
needed] He has also directed such a remark at Mike Cuellar, ace of the 
1969 staff, and several other players.[1] Weaver started his minor league 
managerial career in 1956 with the unaffiliated Knoxville Smokies in the 
South Atlantic League. He joined the Orioles in 1957 as skipper of their 
Fitzgerald, Georgia club in the Georgia–Florida League. The Orioles moved 
him to their Dublin, Georgia franchise in 1958, and to their Aberdeen, 
South Dakota club in 1959. In 1960, he managed the Fox Cities Foxes in 
Wisconsin in the Class-B Three-I League. He moved up to with the AA Elmira 
Pioneers in 1962 and to the AAA Rochester Red Wings in 1966. As a minor 
league manager, he compiled a record of 841 wins and 697 defeats (.547) 
with three championships in 11½ seasons. Weaver earned a promotion when 
he was appointed to replace Gene Woodling as the Orioles' first-base coach 
on October 3, 1967,[2] and spent the first half of the 1968 season in that 
capacity before succeeding Hank Bauer as manager on July 11.[3] During 
his tenure as big-league manager, the Orioles won the American League pennant 
in 1969, 1970, 1971 and 1979. In 1969 the Orioles were defeated in the 
World Series in five games by the New York Mets team known as the Miracle 
Mets. In 1970 the Orioles won the World Series by defeating the Cincinnati 
Reds (The "Big Red Machine") in five games. In 1971 the Orioles lost the 
World Series in seven games to the Pittsburgh Pirates. Pirates pitcher 
Steve Blass pitched a complete game and gave up four hits in the deciding 
seventh game, allowing the Orioles to score one run. In 1979 the Orioles 
again lost the World Series in seven games to the Pittsburgh Pirates. Pitchers 
Jim Bibby, Don Robinson, Grant Jackson, and Kent Tekulve held the Orioles 
to four hits and one run in the deciding seventh game. In 1982, Weaver 
announced he would retire at the end of the season, one which saw the Orioles 
wallow at the back of the pack for the first half of the year before climbing 
in the standings to just three games behind going into a season-ending 
four-game series against the division-leading Brewers at Memorial Stadium. 
The Orioles beat them handily in the first three games to pull into a first-place 
tie. The final game of the series, and the season, on October 3, would 
decide the AL East title. Televised nationally on ABC, the Orioles suffered 
a crushing 10-2 loss. After the game, the crowd called for Weaver to come 
out. This tribute to the retiring Weaver provided intense emotion against 
the backdrop of the season-ending defeat, as Weaver, in tears, stood on 
the field and applauded back to the fans, and shared words and an embrace 
with Brewers manager Harvey Kuenn. Owner Edward Bennett Williams coaxed 
Weaver out of retirement in 1985, but a losing season in 1986 prompted 
his permanent Major League retirement. Weaver's managerial record is 1,480–1,060 
(.583), including 100+ win seasons in 1969 (109), 1970 (108), 1971 (101), 
1979 (102), and 1980 (100). He only had one losing season in his managerial 
career, with the 1986 Orioles. Weaver also boasts a record high 94.3 wins 
per season. In 1989, Weaver managed the Gold Coast Suns in the new Senior 
Professional Baseball Association.[4] Less than a week into the season, 
Weaver was ejected from his first game. He later commented, "These umpires 
are high school rejects. The league went for the cheapest umpiring association. 
There should be no league if this continues."[5] The Suns failed to make 
the playoffs in the 1989–90 season and folded after one season. Weaver 
was ejected from games at least 91 times during the regular season (98, 
according to one source)[6] and several more times during post-season play. 
He was ejected from both games in a doubleheader three times. He was ejected 
before a game started twice, both times by Ron Luciano.[7] Luciano alone 
ejected him from all four games of a minor-league series and eight games 
in the majors.[8] He also received four multiple-game suspensions. He was 
well known for the humor that often accompanied his ejections. During one 
particular tirade with an umpire, Weaver headed to the dugout screaming, 
"I'm going to check the rule-book on that" to which the umpire replied, 
"Here, use mine." Weaver shot back, "That's no good—I can't read Braille."[citation 
needed] He once told an umpire that he could appear on What's My Line? 
wearing his mask, chest protector and ball/strike indicator and still nobody 
would guess he was an umpire.[6] Weaver had a penchant for kicking dirt 
on umpires, and for turning his cap backwards whenever he sparred with 
umpires in order to get as close to them as possible without actually touching 
them.[citation needed] His rivalry with Luciano was legendary, to the point 
where the AL rearranged umpiring schedules for an entire year so that Luciano 
would not work Orioles games. A year later on August 26, 1979, in the third 
inning of the opener of an Orioles-White Sox doubleheader at Comiskey Park, 
he ejected Weaver who then publicly questioned Luciano's "integrity" and 
received a three-game suspension.[7] Still, Weaver had respect for Luciano, 
calling him "one of the few umpires that people have paid their way into 
the park to see."[9] Marty Springstead was one of Weaver's least favorite 
umpires. On September 15, 1977, in Toronto, Weaver asked Springstead to 
have a tarpaulin covering the Toronto Blue Jays bullpen area removed; the 
tarp was weighed down by bricks and Earl argued that his left fielder could 
be injured if he ran into the bricks while chasing a foul ball. When the 
umpire refused to order the Blue Jays to move the tarp, Weaver pulled the 
Orioles off the field. The umpire declared a forfeit, the only forfeit 
in Orioles history. On another infamous occasion, in Cleveland, Springstead 
watched as Weaver tore up the rule book and tossed it into the air.[10] 
One of Weaver's most infamous tirades came on September 17, 1980 in a game 
against the Detroit Tigers. First base umpire Bill Haller, who was wearing 
a microphone for a documentary on the daily life of an MLB umpire, called 
a balk on Oriole pitcher Mike Flanagan. Weaver charged out of the dugout 
and began screaming at Haller, who was already angry at Weaver for publicly 
questioning his integrity by suggesting he be prohibited from working Tigers 
games in 1972 because his brother was the Tigers' backup catcher at the 
time.[8] After Weaver was ejected, he launched into a profanity-filled 
argument with Haller that was duly recorded. During the tirade, Earl accused 
Haller of blatantly calling the game out of the Orioles' favor. He also 
accused Haller of poking him in the chest; after Haller denied doing so, 
they called each other liars.[11] Weaver's contempt for umpires was often 
mutual. One night in 1973 Weaver threw his cap to the ground and began 
a vehement argument with Luciano. Luciano's crew-mate Don Denkinger walked 
over to Weaver's cap, stepped on it with the sharp cleats of both shoes, 
and slowly twisted back and forth.[8] Weaver's oft-quoted managerial philosophy 
was "pitching, defense, and the three-run homer." Weaver expanded on his 
philosophy in three books he authored: Winning! (1972); It's What You Learn 
After You Know It All That Counts (1983); and Weaver on Strategy (1984), 
which was republished as Weaver on Strategy: The Classic Work on the Art 
of Managing a Baseball Team (2002, with co-author Terry Pluto). Weaver 
eschewed the use of so-called "inside baseball" or "small ball" tactics 
such as the stolen base, the hit and run, or the sacrifice bunt, preferring 
a patient approach ("waiting for the home run"), saying "If you play for 
one run, that's all you'll get" and "On offense, your most precious possessions 
are your 27 outs". Weaver claims to have never had a sign for the hit and 
run, citing that the play makes both the baserunner and the hitter vulnerable, 
as the baserunner is susceptible to being caught stealing and the hitter 
is required to swing at any pitch thrown no matter how far outside the 
strike zone or how unhittable the pitch is.[citation needed] Weaver strongly 
believed in finishing as high in the standings as possible, even if a championship 
was not involved: In 1977, the Orioles entered the final weekend of the 
season tied for second place in the AL East with the Red Sox, three games 
behind the division-leading Yankees, to play a scheduled three-game series 
against the Red Sox in Boston, while the Yankees played three at home against 
Detroit. The Red Sox won the first game of the series, 11–10, on September 
30, eliminating the Orioles from division title contention; however, after 
the game Weaver insisted, in an interview with a reporter, that "we're 
still trying to finish second." The following day, the Orioles won, 8–7, 
eliminating the Red Sox (the Yankees having lost on both days) and leaving 
the teams tied for second place headed into the series' and the season's 
final game, which was rained out, resulting in the Red Sox and Orioles 
finishing in a tie for second place. Weaver also insisted that his players 
maintain a professional appearance at all times. He allowed mustaches, 
but not beards, and, as a rule, players had to wear a suit or jacket and 
tie on board an airplane for a road trip.[citation needed] Weaver made 
extensive use of statistics to create matchups that were favorable either 
for his batter or his pitcher. He had various notebooks with all sorts 
of splits and head-to-head numbers for his batters and against his pitchers 
and would assemble his lineups according to the matchups he had. For example, 
despite the fact that Gold Glove shortstop Mark Belanger was a weak hitter, 
in 19 plate appearances he hit .625 with a .684 on-base percentage and 
.625 slugging percentage against Jim Kern and would be slotted high in 
the lineup when facing him.[12] Similarly, Boog Powell, the 1970 American 
League MVP, hit a meager .178/.211/.278 against Mickey Lolich over 96 plate 
appearances and would be substituted, possibly with a hitter like Chico 
Salmon, who hit a much more acceptable .300/.349/.400 against the same 
pitcher.[13][14] Weaver made use of the bench. In the Oriole teams of the 
late 1970s and early 1980s, Weaver made frequent use of platoons, with 
the most obvious example being the use of Gary Roenicke and John Lowenstein 
in left field, without affordable full-time solutions. Weaver also exploited 
a loophole in the designated hitter rule by listing as the DH one of his 
starting pitchers who would not be appearing in that day's game. This gave 
him another opportunity to exploit pitcher-batter matchups, in the case 
the opposing starting pitcher left the game early because of injury or 
ineffectiveness before it was the DH's turn in the batting order. A rule 
was created to stop the use of this tactic, allegedly (by Weaver) because 
it was distorting pinch-hitting statistics.[citation needed] Weaver used 
radar guns to track the speed of pitched balls during the 1975 spring training 
season.[15] Between his stints as manager Weaver served as a color commentator 
for ABC television, calling the 1983 World Series (which the Orioles won) 
along with Al Michaels and Howard Cosell. Weaver was the #1 ABC analyst 
in 1983 (replacing Don Drysdale,[17] who moved over to secondary play-by-play 
for ABC), but was also employed by the Baltimore Orioles as a consultant. 
At the time, ABC had a policy preventing an announcer who was employed 
by a team from working games involving that team. So whenever the Orioles 
were on the primary ABC game, Weaver worked the backup game. This policy 
forced Weaver to resign from the Orioles consulting position in October 
in order to be able to work the World Series for ABC. Weaver later called 
the 1984 National League Championship Series (between the San Diego Padres 
and Chicago Cubs) for ABC alongside fellow hall of famers Reggie Jackson, 
who played for Weaver in 1976, and Don Drysdale. While managing the Orioles, 
Weaver hosted a radio show called Manager's Corner with Baltimore Oriole 
play by play announcer Tom Marr in which he would give his views on baseball 
and answer questions from fans. Weaver and Marr once recorded a prank version 
of the program, giving hilarious off-color answers to queries ranging from 
Terry Crowley, "team speed" and even growing tomatoes (one of Weaver's 
hobbies was gardening). The tape, which was not broadcast at the time, 
has since become legendary in Baltimore sports circles and has even been 
aired (in heavily edited fashion) on local sports radio.[18] Weaver wrote 
three books: Winning! (1972),[19] Weaver on Strategy (1984),[20] and It's 
What You Learn After You Know It All That Counts (1983).[21] In 1987, Weaver 
assisted in the development of the AI for the computer game Earl Weaver 
Baseball, which was published by Electronic Arts. The game was one of the 
precursors of the EA Sports line.[22] Weaver died about 2 a.m. on January 
19, 2013 of an apparent heart attack while on an Orioles' fantasy cruise 
aboard the Celebrity Silhouette in the Caribbean Sea.[23] According to 
the Silhouette's itinerary, the ship had left Labadee, Haiti on January 
18 and was expected to dock at Fort Lauderdale, Florida on January 20, 
2013.[24] Weaver's wife of 49 years, Marianna, was at his side when he 
died. He was 82 years old.[25][26] By coincidence, another Baseball Hall 
of Fame member, the St. Louis Cardinals' Stan Musial, died later that day. 
Upon his death, Bud Selig, commissioner of Major League Baseball, released 
the following statement: "Earl Weaver was a brilliant baseball man, a true 
tactician in the dugout and one of the key figures in the rich history 
of the Baltimore Orioles, the club he led to four American League pennants 
and the 1970 World Series championship ... Having known Earl throughout 
my entire career in the game, I have many fond memories of the Orioles 
and the Brewers squaring off as American League East rivals. Earl's managerial 
style proved visionary, as many people in the game adopted his strategy 
and techniques years later. Earl was well known for being one of the game's 
most colorful characters with a memorable wit, but he was also amongst 
its most loyal. On behalf of Major League Baseball, I send my deepest condolences 
to his wife, Marianna, their family and all Orioles fans."[27] Orioles 
managing partner Peter Angelos added: "Earl Weaver stands alone as the 
greatest manager in the history of the Orioles organization and one of 
the greatest in the history of baseball ... This is a sad day for everyone 
who knew him and for all Orioles fans. Earl made his passion for the Orioles 
known both on and off the field. On behalf of the Orioles, I extend my 
