In baseball, an earned run is any run that was fully enabled by the offensive 
team's production in the face of competent play from the defensive team. 
Conversely, an unearned run is a run that would not have been scored without 
the aid of an error or a passed ball committed by the defense. An unearned 
run counts just as much as any other run for the purpose of determining 
the score of the game. However, it is "unearned" in that it was, in a sense, 
"given away" by the defensive team. Both total runs and earned runs are 
tabulated as part of a pitcher's statistics. However, earned runs are specially 
denoted because of their use in calculating a pitcher's earned run average 
(ERA), the number of earned runs allowed by the pitcher per nine innings 
pitched (i.e., averaged over a regulation game). Thus, in effect, the pitcher 
is held personally accountable for earned runs, while the responsibility 
for unearned runs is shared with the rest of the team. To determine whether 
a run is earned, the official scorer must reconstruct the inning as it 
would have occurred without errors or passed balls. If no errors and no 
passed balls occur during the inning, all runs scored are automatically 
earned (assigned responsible to the pitcher). Also, in some cases, an error 
can be rendered harmless as the inning progresses. For example, a runner 
on first base advances to second on a passed ball and the next batter walks. 
Since the runner would now have been at second anyway, the passed ball 
no longer has any effect on the earned/unearned calculation. On the other 
hand, a batter/runner may make his entire circuit around the bases without 
the aid of an error, yet the run would be counted as unearned if an error 
prevented the third out from being made before he crossed the plate to 
score. An error made by the pitcher in fielding at his position is counted 
the same as an error by any other player. A run is counted as unearned 
when: While the inning is still being played, the second and last scenario 
can cause a temporary situation where a run has already scored, but its 
earned/unearned status is not yet certain. Under the last circumstance, 
for example, with two outs, a runner on third base scores on a passed ball. 
For the time being, the run is unearned since the runner should still be 
at third. If the batter strikes out to end the inning, it will stay that 
way. If the batter gets a base hit, which would have scored the runner 
anyway, the run now becomes earned. Under the second circumstance, if there 
are runners on base (but not on first base) and a batter hits a foul fly 
ball that is dropped, and then bats in the runners on base through a base 
hit (including a home run), the runs are unearned for the time being, as 
the runners should not have advanced. If the next batters either strike 
out or hit an infield fly that would not have advanced the runners, the 
runs remain unearned. However, if subsequent batters reach on clean plays 
which would have scored the runs anyway, the runs would count as earned, 
except for the runner that reached base through an at-bat extended by the 
dropped foul fly ball error. A runner who reaches on catcher's interference 
and subsequently scores with two outs scores an unearned run, but baserunners 
who subsequently score after the runner who has reached on catcher's interference 
exclusively on clean plays score earned runs; the baserunner cannot be 
assumed to have been put out except for the error. (Rule 10.16(4)). Neither 
the use of a pinch-runner to replace a baserunner who represents an unearned 
run nor the use of a pinch-hitter to continue the turn at bat of a batter 
who would be out except for an error transforms a run scored by such a 
person or his successors on base from an unearned run to an earned run. 
When pitchers are changed in the middle of an inning, and one or more errors 
have already occurred, it is possible to have a run charged as earned against 
a specific pitcher, but unearned to the team. The simplest example is when 
the defensive team records two outs and makes an error on a play that would 
have been the third out. A new pitcher comes into the game, and the next 
batter hits a home run. The runner who reached on the error comes around 
to score, and his run is unearned to both the prior pitcher and the team. 
However, the run scored by the batter is counted as earned against the 
relief pitcher, but unearned to the team (since there should have already 
been three outs). Had the team not switched pitchers, neither run would 
be counted as an earned run because that pitcher should have already been 
out of that inning. A pitcher is only charged with the number of runners 
that reached base while he was pitching, and this does not include baserunners 
who reach base as the result of a fielder's choice play that removes an 
existing runner; such a runner is charged to the pitcher whose baserunner 
has been removed by the fielder's choice play. When a pitching change occurs, 
the new pitcher is said to "inherit" any runners that are on base at the 
time, and if they later score, those runs are charged (earned or unearned) 
to the prior pitcher. Most box scores now list inherited runners, and the 
