East End Park is a former major league baseball park located in the East 
End neighborhood of Cincinnati in the United States.[1][2] The ballpark, 
which is also known to baseball historians as Pendleton Park, was home 
to the Cincinnati Reds of the American Association (now more commonly known 
as the Cincinnati Kelly's Killers) during the 1891 baseball season. The 
club was led by the flamboyant star, Mike "King" Kelly. The east side Reds 
had no relationship to the current Cincinnati Reds team. Those Reds had 
transferred from the Association to the National League in 1890. With the 
League and the Association on bad terms following several years of peace 
and Players' League stress of 1890, the Association decided to field a 
team of its own in Cincinnati for 1891. This peculiar situation gave the 
city of Cincinnati two major league baseball teams in the same year with 
the same nickname. The National League Reds, who played on the west side 
of Cincinnati; and the Association Reds who played on the east side. Adding 
to the confusion was the presence of another Reds team in the Association, 
the Boston Reds. All of these Reds teams derived their nicknames, indirectly, 
from the original Cincinnati Red Stockings of 1869–1870. The east side 
Reds team has also been referred to as Kelly's Killers and the Cincinnati 
Porkers, as well as Kelly's Wonders, Kelly's Braves and Kelly's Hustlers. 
Some historians have extended the best known of these informal names by 
calling them the "Cincinnati Kelly's Killers". However, the Cincinnati 
papers who covered the team in 1891 only occasionally referred to the club 
by any of these nicknames. Kelly's search for a suitable playing field 
led him to what was then the far east end of the city, in a picturesque 
location along the Ohio River that was known as Pendleton Park or Pendleton 
Grounds. The club secured a lease and built a small ballpark within Pendleton 
Park, which was dubbed East End Park by the media. The location of the 
park was just off Eastern Avenue (now called Riverside Drive), where the 
Schmidt Recreation Complex is currently located. The ballpark was located 
between modern day Humbert Street (southwest, right field); Babb (or Babby) 
Alley (northeast, some distance beyond third base); Watson Street (southeast, 
left field); and Ridgeley Street (northwest, first base). Ridgeley street 
now dead ends at Babby Alley but it once extended the distance of the third 
base bleachers. The diamond was situated toward the northwest (or actually 
north-northwest) corner of the block. Just south of Humbert is the Ohio 
River. Many patrons attending east end Reds games were dropped off by steamboat, 
coming either from the city or from Coney Island. East End Park was one 
of only a handful of major league parks to have access by way of a river. 
At the time, the National League did not allow Sunday baseball games to 
be played. As a result, the rival American Association capitalized on this 
by having their teams play Sunday games. However, the Cincinnati Association 
club had difficulty with this because the city had the blue law in place 
which also disallowed Sunday games. Owners of the Cincinnati Reds made 
repeated attempts at playing games on Sundays. Sometimes the Mayor of Cincinnati, 
Mayor John B. Mosby, would enforce the law and other times he would not. 
When the Mayor did enforce the law, the Reds and their opponents found 
themselves in jail. In one instance, before a game played on May 24 against 
the Philadelphia Athletics, the Chief of Police behaved like a Colonel 
in the US Army. Dressed in a full military uniform, Chief Dietsch had seventy-five 
of his police officers march back and forth on the baseball field prior 
to game time to try to intimidate the baseball club. He even went as far 
as to have seventy-five more police officers waiting at the station if 
the Reds attempted to play. The players went ahead and attempted to play 
anyway. When the game entered the second half of the first inning, Chief 
Deitsch had enough and had his officers arrest all of the players. The 
next day the Cincinnati Commercial Gazette reported that "It would be commendable 
in Chief Deitsch if he would display as much zeal in closing saloons and 
shutting off a few of the crap games that he has shown in stopping Sunday 
base ball." [3][4] The east side Reds ballpark proved to be too remote 
for drawing fans consistently and as a result the club did not fare very 
well at the box office. During a day off on August 17, it was decided to 
suspend operations of the franchise until a new ballpark could be built 
on the west side of town. Ownership was planning to reactivate the club 
for the start of the 1892 baseball season. The final Reds game played at 
East End Park was on August 13 against the Boston Reds. The game resulted 
in a 1-7 Cincinnati loss. The club's final game was on the road with an 
8-0 loss to the St. Louis Browns on August 16, 1891, in St. Louis. The 
Milwaukee Brewers of the Western League stepped in and finished out the 
Reds schedule. Several of Mike Kelly's Reds joined the Milwaukee club including 
business manager Frank Bancroft. The Brewers played their first game on 
the 18th, again in St. Louis. Kelly was not among the new club's members, 
as he returned to his familiar home in Boston to resume his career, playing 
with the AA's Boston Reds club and then finishing the season with the Boston 
Beaneaters of the NL. Kelly's Beaneaters won the League pennant while the 
Boston Reds would go on to win the Association pennant. This proved to 
be the last hurrah for the Association, which merged with the National 
League during the off-season. With a Cincinnati team already in the National 
League, the Cincinnati Association franchise was done. In 1896, a few years 
after the short-lived experiment with major league baseball on the east 
side of Cincinnati failed, the Pendleton grounds were acquired by the Cincinnati 
Gymnasium and Athletic Club, and became known as the Cincinnati Gym Grounds. 
The Athletic Club retained the ballfield and grandstand, and built a swimming 
pool in the center field area near the clubhouse building. The East End 
ballpark suffered severe damage following flooding in the spring of 1897, 
situated as it was in the floodplain of the Ohio River. The outfield wall 
and bleachers were swept out into the Ohio River, leaving just the grandstand, 
pavilion and club house. All were restored during late spring of 1897 and 
were ready for use again.[5] The ballpark was considered for use as a temporary 
home for the National League Reds in 1900, after League Park was severely 
damaged by fire the night of May 27–28. The Reds instead chose to play 
their games on the road for the next month until their own park could be 
sufficiently restored.[6] Cincinnati's Board of Park Commissioners and 
Park Department proposed a concrete sidewalk to be created and that it 
extend the length of the park bordering with Eastern Avenue to provide 
a place for people to walk to and from work; however a 10-foot artificial 
stone sidewalk was established.[7][8] Thoughts of improving the grounds 
were not welcomed as the annual flooding prevents permanent structures 
from being built. Benches that had been placed the year before were washed 
away by the recent floods.[8] The larger park area once known as Pendleton 
Park (which historians often present as the name for the ballpark itself) 
still exists and is currently known as Schmidt Recreation Complex or Schmidt 
Recreation Center, which has four softball diamonds, two of them overlapping 
the East End Park site, and two of them further west within the park. The 
current softball field known as C.L. Harrison Field approximates the original 
orientation of the diamond, only somewhat farther to the north. The photographic 
evidence indicates that the original 1891 diamond was located in what would 
be the right field area of the Harrison field. In the opposite corner of 
the property, another softball field, the current Paul Kramer Field, occupies 
what was once the outfield area of East End Park. The surroundings of the 
park are not significantly different from the 1890s. A number of the nearby 
houses still stand. Aerial views from Google maps indicate that water from 
the Ohio still wreaks occasional havoc with the ballfields there. Only 
a small number of major league baseball fields from the 1890s survive as 
athletic fields (Cleveland's League Park is another). The two softball 
diamonds occupying East End Park's footprint allow the visitor a rare opportunity 
to imagine major league baseball being played there, over a century earlier. 
Coordinates: 39°07′04″N 84°26′47″W﻿ / ﻿39.11778°N 84.44639°W﻿ / 39.11778; 
