The Eastern League (イースタン・リーグ?) is one of the two minor leagues ("ni-gun")[1] 
of Japanese professional baseball. The league is owned and managed by the 
Central League of Nippon Professional Baseball (NPB). Teams in the Eastern 
League generally play an 80-game schedule every year. In 1954 the six teams 
of NPB's Central League agreed to form their own minor league — the Shin 
Nippon League[2] (or "New Japan League")[1] — as a complement to the already 
extant Kansai Farm League, which had begun play in 1952. The minor league 
affiliates of the Chunichi Dragons and Hanshin Tigers moved over from the 
Kansai Farm League. The initial roster of Shin Nippon League teams (NPB 
parent team in parentheses):[1] Both minor leagues decided to join forces 
with Nippon Professional Baseball in 1955, and the 14 farm teams of the 
Central League and Pacific League were split up to create the Eastern League 
and the Western League, each with seven teams. The Eastern League contained 
the minor league teams of the seven professional teams that had their homefields 
in the Eastern region of Japan (NPB parent team in parentheses):[1] After 
one year of operation, the league dissolved in 1956[1] for financial reasons.[2] 
The Eastern League restarted in 1961 with five teams:[1] in the interim 
the Daiei Stars and the Takahashi Unions (formerly the Tombo Unions) had 
merged into the Daiei Unions, who in turn merged with the Mainichi Orions 
to ultimately form the Daimai Orions (now known as the Chiba Lotte Marines). 
From that point until the year 2000, all Japanese minor league teams used 
the same name as their NPB parent club.[1] In 1979, the Nishitetsu Lions 
moved their franchise to Saitama, with their minor league team leaving 
the Western League to join the Eastern League. In 2005 the Tohoku Rakuten 
Golden Eagles were formed to join NPB, and their farm team became part 
of the Eastern League as well. The league currently contains the minor 
league affiliates of seven Japanese professional teams. With a few exceptions, 
Eastern League teams currently carry the same name, and use the same uniforms, 
as their parent team. Current teams (minor league homefield shown in parentheses): 
