The Mutual Association of Eastern Colored Clubs, more commonly known as 
the Eastern Colored League (ECL), was one of the several Negro leagues, 
which operated during the time organized baseball was segregated. The ECL 
was founded in 1923 when the Philadelphia-area Hilldale Club and the Bacharach 
Giants of Atlantic City, both associate members of the midwest-based Negro 
National League (NNL), broke with the NNL and allied with the white promoter 
Nat Strong to form an east coast league. The charter members were: Hilldale, 
the Bacharach Giants, the Brooklyn Royal Giants, the Cuban Stars (East), 
the Lincoln Giants of New York, and the Baltimore Black Sox. In 1924 the 
Harrisburg Giants and Washington Potomacs joined, bringing the circuit 
to eight clubs. The ECL raided the NNL for players, including Hall of Famers 
Oscar Charleston, Biz Mackey, and John Henry Lloyd, starting a war that 
lasted for two years. In 1925 the Washington Potomacs moved to Wilmington, 
Delaware, but still disbanded in July. Their 1926 replacement, the Newark 
Stars, folded after only 11 games. At the end of the 1924 season the two 
leagues made peace and arranged for a Colored World Series between their 
champions. This series was played each year from 1924 through 1927. The 
only ECL club to win the World Series was Hilldale in 1925. Beginning in 
1927 the league was wracked by dissension between club owners. New York's 
Lincoln Giants dropped out for that season.[citation needed] They returned 
the next, but then Hilldale, the Brooklyn Royal Giants, and the Harrisburg 
Giants all dropped out. The Philadelphia Tigers were recruited to bring 
the league up to five teams for 1928.[citation needed] The ECL staggered 
through May, but finally disbanded in the midst of disputes over player 
contracts at the beginning of June. The team in first place at the end 
of the season was declared the Pennant winner. Due to the unorthodox nature 
of the schedule (and little incentive to enforce it), some teams frequently 
played many more games than others did in any given season. This led to 
some disputed championships and two teams claiming the title. Generally, 
the team with the best winning percentage (with some minimum number of 
games played) was awarded the Pennant, but other times it was the team 
with the most victories. The "games behind" method of recording standings 
was uncommon in most black leagues. ‡ – Pennant winner went on to play 
in the Colored World Series. For the duration of the league, a Colored 
World Series took place four times, from 1924 through 1927. The ECL Pennant 
winner met the champion of the rival Negro National League. Three out of 
the four years, the Eastern Colored League team (below in bold) succumbed. 
