The Eastern Michigan Eagles, formerly known as the Hurons, are the athletic 
teams for Eastern Michigan University in Ypsilanti, Michigan, United States. 
The Eagles compete in the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) 
at the Division I level as members of the Mid-American Conference (MAC). 
The only exception is the women's rowing program, which is a member of 
the Colonial Athletic Association. Altogether, the Eagles have won three 
NCAA Division II national championships and 13 NAIA Division I national 
championships in five different sports (baseball, men's cross country, 
men's swimming and diving, men's indoor track and field, and men's outdoor 
track and field); moreover, EMU has been NCAA Division I national runner-up 
twice. In 1940, the men's cross country team finished second to Indiana 
University at the national meet hosted by Michigan State University. The 
Eagles have also won the Reese Trophy, given to the best overall men's 
athletic program in the MAC, four times, most recently in 2008.[2] EMU 
was a member of the Illinois Intercollegiate Athletic Conference from 1950 
to 1961, and has been a member of the MAC since 1972. The university was 
founded in 1849 as Michigan State Normal School. It wasn't until the school 
was Michigan State Normal College when the school's first nicknames (then 
Michigan State Normal College), were the "Normalites" and "Men from Ypsi". 
The "Hurons" first came into being as the result of a contest sponsored 
by the Men's Union in 1929. On Oct. 31 of that year, a three-person committee, 
composed of Dr. Clyde Ford, Dr. Elmer Lyman and Professor Bert Peet, selected 
the name "Hurons" from the many entries in the contest. The name was submitted 
by two students, Gretchen Borst and George Hanner. The runner-up name in 
that contest was Pioneers. The "Hurons" was adopted in 1929. EMU was a 
member of the Illinois Intercollegiate Athletic Conference from 1950 to 
1961, and eventually joined the Mid-American Conference in 1972. The university 
switched from NCAA Division II to NCAA Division I athletics in the mid-1970s. 
Since the 1991 season, Eastern Michigan University athletic teams have 
gone by the nickname "Eagles." Since joining the Mid-American Conference 
in 1972, Eastern's most successful athletics programs in men's sports include: 
cross country with over 17 MAC titles, indoor track & field with 12 MAC 
titles, outdoor track & field with over 20 MAC titles and men's swimming 
& diving with over 30 MAC titles. The more successful sports in women's 
athletics include outdoor track & field with over 10 MAC titles and indoor 
track & field with 3 MAC titles.[3] EMU football made two appearances in 
NCAA (football) bowl games in 1971 Pioneer Bowl and winning in the 1987 
California Bowl.[4] Eastern's men's basketball team has appeared in four 
NCAA Division I tournaments. They reached the Sweet Sixteen in the 1991 
and in 1996. As well, men's basketball reached the Final Four of the 1972 
NCAA College Division National Championship and were national runners up 
in 1976. EMU began investigating the appropriateness of its Huron Indian 
logo after the Michigan Department of Civil Rights issued a report in October 
1988 suggesting that all schools using such logos drop them. The report 
indicated that the use of Native American names, logos or mascots for athletic 
teams promoted racial stereotypes. At that time, four colleges, 62 high 
schools and 33 junior high/middle schools in Michigan used Native American 
logos or names, including Mid-American Conference rival Central Michigan 
University. CMU did not, however, change their nickname from the Chippewas. 
The EMU Board of Regents voted to replace the Huron name with Eagles, taken 
from three recommendations from a committee charged with supplying a new 
nickname. The other two final names submitted were Green Hornets and Express. 
The Eagles name was officially adopted on May 22, 1991, when the EMU Board 
of Regents voted to replace the existing Huron nickname and logo with the 
new one. During the 1991 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament, announcer 
Jim Nantz talked about the controversy and referred to the team on-air 
as the "No-Names." Some former students and faculty were angered that a 
unique name like Huron was replaced by something common like Eagles, especially 
for reasons of political correctness relating to Native American names, 
logos or mascots depicting a Native American. Early French explorers referred 
to these natives as the Huron, either from the French huron ("ruffian", 
"rustic"), or from hure ("boar's head"). According to tradition, French 
sailors thought that the bristly hairstyle of Wendat warriors resembled 
that of a boar.[5] But these negative etymological meanings conflict with 
the "bon Iroquois" attitude held by the French fur traders and explorers. 
An alternate etymology is from the Algonquin words ronon ("nation"), or 
Irri-ronon ("Erie" or "Cat Nation"). It was pronounced Hirri-ronon by the 
French, eventually shortened to Hirr-on, and finally spelled in its present 
form, Huron. Other etymological possibilities come from the Algonquin words 
ka-ron and tu-ron ("straight coast" and "crooked coast").[6] Some alumni 
have refused to donate money to the school. The name change spurred an 
official chapter of the EMU Alumni Association, the Huron Restoration Chapter. 
The chapter claims to have the support of Chief Leaford Bearskin of the 
Wyandot Tribe of Oklahoma and former Grand Chief Max Gros-Louis of the 
Huron-Wendat Nation of Quebec to reestablish the team name as Huron.[7] 
Since the change, the university has not altered the name and has continued 
to adopt the Eagle name. In 1994, the university adopted a new mascot called 
"Swoop".[8] In 2011, EMU began its True EMU Campaign which aimed to unite 
all alumni stating "Whether you are a Huron or an Eagle, whether you graduated 
50 years ago or last semester, we want you to show the world you remember 
your times in Y-Town, water tower and all."[9] Swoop is the mascot for 
Eastern Michigan University. Before the 1991 season, Eastern Michigan University 
went by the "Hurons." After 1991 Eastern has gone by the "Eagles." Even 
though the school adopted the name "Eagles" it was not until 1994 when 
"Swoop" was adopted as the official mascot for the university.[8] Swoop 
is depicted as an American bald eagle wearing an Eastern Michigan University 
jersey, displaying the numbers "00" on the front and "Swoop" on the back. 
Swoop's gender is undefined. At the Eastern Michigan University bookstore 
a stuffed animal pair can be purchased, one wearing a jersey, the other 
wearing a cheerleader outfit. EMU Athletics oversees and uses several facilities 
on the EMU campus such as the EMU Convocation Center, Bowen Field House, 
Eagle Crest Resort (Ypsilanti, Michigan), the Indoor Practice Facility 
(the bubble), Olds-Robb Rec/IM, Oestrike Stadium and Rynearson Stadium.[10][11][12] 
Rynearson Stadium opened in 1969 and is the largest facility on the campus.[13] 
Convocation Center is a multi-purpose arena that opened on December 9, 
1998 is the largest indoor facility. Bowen Field House is used by Eastern 
Michigan Eagles track and field, Eastern Michigan Eagles wrestling, and 
Eastern Michigan Eagles gymnastics. Oestrike Statium is used for baseball 
and softball events.[12] The newsest building operated by athletics is 
the Indoor Practice Facility, which opened in 2010. Six intercollegiate 
sports use the facility which include football, baseball, softball, women's 
soccer and men's and women's golf.[14][15] The Eastern Michigan University 
Marching Band, nicknamed "The Pride of the Peninsula," was first formed 
in 1924. The Eastern Michigan University Basketball Band is directed by 
the two graduate assistants of the band. Unlike the marching band which 
is made up of all brass and woodwinds, the Basketball Band's instrumentation 
is strictly "Brass and Sax." The Basketball Band travels with the basketball 
teams during the MAC tournament or the NCAA tournament. The school song 
"Our Pledge" was written by Edward Bowles and was arranged for the marching 
band by Thomas Tyra. The melody of "Eagles Fight Song" was written by Larry 
Livingston and arranged for marching band by Thomas Tyra. The percussion 
parts were written by Whitney Prince. "Go Green" was written by Thomas 
Tyra. Eastern Michigan University offers 21 NCAA Division I varsity sports, 
9 for men and 12 for women.[16] On June 19, 1976, after finishing in sixth 
place the year before, the baseball team was defeated by the University 
of Arizona in the final game of the College World Series at Johnny Rosenblatt 
Stadium in Omaha, Nebraska. Under the leadership of Coach Ron Oestrike 
and assistant Roger Coryell, the Hurons defeated Maine, Clemson, and Arizona 
State (with its 13 future Major Leaguers) before losing its last two games 
to Arizona. EMU was led by stars Bob Owchinko, Bob Welch, Dan Schmitz, 
Jerry Keller, Glenn Gulliver, Glen Ambrose, Mike Lauerman, Thom Boutin 
and John Martin (baseball). Eastern's men's basketball team has appeared 
in four NCAA Division I tournaments, and have a 3-4 record, tied for third 
best among Michigan colleges. They reached the Sweet Sixteen in the 1991 
tournament (their first ever appearance) and defeated Duke University in 
the first round of the 1996 tournament. One of the great highlights in 
team history came after the victory over Duke in 1996 when the Blue Devils' 
Head Coach Mike Krzyzewski stated, "Eastern Michigan is very well coached, 
much deeper than we are and, today, much quicker than we were."[17] EMU 
reached the Final Four of the 1972 NCAA College Division National Championship, 
led by All-American George Gervin, an NBA Hall of Famer selected as one 
of the 50 Greatest Players in NBA History. In 1976, the Baseball team was 
national runners up in NCAA Division I. Eastern's women's basketball team 
began in the 1977-78 season. Eastern Michigan Eagles men's cross country 
is a varsity level sport. The Eagles compete at the Division I level in 
the NCAA. The men's cross country team has won fourteen team championships. 
Its current head coach, John Goodridge, has won five MAC championships 
in his nine years as head coach. The cross country team at the school started 
in 1911.[18] The football team played one home game a year at Ford Field 
in downtown Detroit from 2004-07 in the "Collegiate Clash". They hosted 
Central Michigan University (2004), Western Michigan University (2005), 
the United States Naval Academy (2006), and Northwestern University (2007). 
After winning the first Ford Field game over CMU in triple overtime 61-58, 
they lost three in a row. The greatest football victory in EMU history 
occurred in December 1987. The MAC Champion Hurons defeated 17½ point favorite 
San Jose State in the California Bowl. The victory culminated a 10-2 season 
and improbable rise from the depths of Division I-A college football. Only 
two years previous the team was in serious jeopardy of losing Division 
1-A status. Head Coach Jim Harkema was instrumental in resurrecting the 
program. The two losses in 1987 were both on the road, and were by a total 
of 11 points. The 1988 and 1989 teams each finished in second place in 
the conference and ended the most successful stretch of football in school 
history with its fourth straight winning season. EMU has achieved only 
one winning season ('95) since. The Eagles finished the 2015 season with 
a 1-11 record. While the head coach Chris Creighton, the 5th head coach 
in the past 10 years was paid $465,000. Eastern Michigan Eagles gymnastics 
is a collegiate women's gymnastics program. Home meets are held in Bowen 
Field House.[19] Warner Gymnasium is the current home of the EMU Gymnastics 
Program.[20] Steve Wilce is the head coach for the EMU Gymnastics team 
along with Andrea Siik as an assistant coach. The team consists of 20 girls 
who all do different routines, skills, and compete at all different levels 
scoring. They all work together as a team and compete for themselves as 
well as each other to get the highest scores possible from the 4-8 judges 
on each event. There are ten to eleven meets per season and are every weekend 
from the end of January to the end of March. On average there are three 
to four home meets per season the rest being away meets that can be anywhere 
from Ohio to California. The team has ranked repeatedly within the top 
15 for team GPA in the nation.[21] In 2008, the Eagles had 11 gymnasts 
named to the National Association of Collegiate Gymnastics Coaches/Women 
(NACGC/W) scholar-athlete team. Additionally, the team placed seventh as 
a team with a Mid-American Conference leading 3.5357 team GPA for the ninth 
consecutive year. In 2007, the team gained its first MAC title and in 2008 
were runners up.[22] The men's swimming and diving team hold the record 
for the most MAC Championships in a single sport, 31, which they won in 
Men's Swimming and Diving in 1978, 1980–1996, 1998, 2000–2005, 2007-2012, 
and 2014.[23] Women's swimming and diving is one of EMU's more successful 
women's sports. Women's Swimming and Diving team won MAC titles in 2006 
and 2007. The head coach Peter Linn has been leading the Eagles for 27 
years. Men's Outdoor Track & Field has over 20 MAC titles. Men's Indoor 
Track & Field has over 13 MAC titles. Women's Outdoor Track & Field has 
over 10 MAC titles. Women's Indoor Track & Field has 3 MAC titles.[24] 
Track and field collectively holds the record for most MAC titles out of 
all the EMU athletics teams. Eastern Michigan Eagles wrestling team is 
a men's athletic program. Eastern Michigan adopted the sport of wrestling 
in 1956. The wrestling program was part of the National Association of 
Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA) from 1957 through 1962. In 1963-1966, 
EMU wrestling switched conferences to the Presidents' Athletic Conference 
(PAC). Since the exit from the PAC, EMU has been a part of the Mid-American 
Conference (MAC), starting in 1973. Home meets are held in Bowen Field 
House.[25] In 1996, wrestling won its first MAC championship. There are 
several home dual meets a year and an annually host of the EMU Open. The 
EMU Open is an annual event started in 1991 that hosts over 500 wrestlers 
and NCAA schools across all three divisions.[26] The current head coach 
of the EMU wrestling team is David Bolyard. Bolyard became the new head 
wrestling coach in 2014. The team has 6 NAIA All-Americans,[27] 5 NCAA 
Division II All-Americans,[28] and 4 NCAA Division I All-Americans.[29] 
As well, the team has over 20 MAC champions.[30] National championships 
(16)[4] National runners-up (6) Individual champions Men's Track and Field: 
Men's Cross Country: Women's track and field: Eastern Michigan has over 
15 club sport teams. Ranging from traditional sports such as men's hockey 
to unique sports such as Quidditch[31] and Roller Hockey. Roller Hockey 
achieved national championships in 2001 in NCRHA Division II. The men's 
hockey team[32] play in the Great Lakes Collegiate Hockey League (GLCHL) 
of the American Collegiate Hockey Association (ACHA) in the Division 1 
level. The Eastern Michigan Eagles hockey team began play in 1976. In the 
first 33 years of existence the Eagle's played in the Central States Collegiate 
Hockey League (CSCHL) before switching to the newly formed GLCHL at the 
start of the 2010-2011 season. In 2003, the team was suspended for hazing 
from the 2004-05 season until 2007.[33] The team were national runners-up 
in 2000 and 1994 in the ACHA Division I league. EMU has had over 20 students 
who competed in the Olympic Games. The earliest being Lloyd Olds, in 1932. 
