Eckford of Brooklyn, or simply Eckford, was an American baseball club from 
1855 to 1872. When the pioneering Union Grounds (the first enclosed baseball 
grounds in America) opened for baseball in 1862, the Eckfords must have 
been the most important tenant, for they played more games than any other 
club that year (7) and won the "national" championship, repeating the championship 
in 1863. During that two year period, the Eckfords won 22 straight matches 
which was the longest undefeated and untied streak to date. In the late 
1860s, they were one of the pioneering professional clubs, although probably 
second to Mutual of New York at the home park. In its final season, Eckford 
entered the second championship of the National Association, the first 
professional baseball league in America, so it is considered a major league 
club by those who count the NA as a major league. Formally organized on 
June 27, 1855, the Eckford Base Ball Club was named for shipbuilder Henry 
Eckford whose base of operations from the late 1790s until the early 1830s 
was Brooklyn, New York. He designed many American warships that participated 
in the War of 1812. From the sports page of Chicago's Daily Inter Ocean 
newspaper, December 20, 1879, p. 3: "Peter Tostevin, whose name was identified 
with the early history of the once famous Eckford Club of Brooklyn, N.Y., 
died in that city Dec. 8, aged 52. He assisted in organizing that club, 
and played first base during the seasons of 1856-57, and third base during 
1858, filling the office of President in the latter year." Immigration 
and census records show that Peter Tostevin, a resident of Brooklyn, was 
born in France in about 1827, that he immigrated to the United States on 
May 31, 1852, and that he was a mason and master builder. Eckford was one 
of 16 participants in the 1857 convention, all from modern New York City. 
There the pioneer New York Knickerbockers essentially transferred baseball 
governance to the leading clubs as a group, so the event is traditionally 
considered the birthday of the National Association of Base Ball Players 
and the participants are considered the NABBP charter members.[1] Today 
the Eckford club and its teams are commonly called "the Brooklyn Eckfords". 
The Eckfords, plural with definite article, was used by contemporary writers 
in prose, perhaps for the grammatical parallel to ordinary nouns used with 
plural verbs ("the visitors are staying downtown" or "the men are playing 
well"); perhaps by direct analogy to plurals formed from family names ("the 
Millers are coming to dinner"). "Brooklyn" in the team name is a later 
development, matching the later convention that a club or team should be 
named for a locale or region that it represents. The Eckfords never represented 
Brooklyn. First, they did not survive to the era of exclusive territories, 
sometimes called "sports franchising", which the new National League instituted 
in 1876. Second, Brooklyn was populous enough to maintain several strong 
teams and support the construction of two enclosed ballparks during the 
amateur days when few players migrated to baseball jobs. Third, New York 
and Brooklyn had the early start, as the hotbeds where multiple clubs developed 
prior to cooperation. At the first convention, eight of 16 clubs were based 
in Brooklyn; three years later, it was 20 of 59. For all these reasons, 
When the NABBP permitted open professionalism in 1869, Eckford and Atlantic 
among dozens of Brooklyn members were both viable in following that route, 
and in 1872 they both joined the National Association league for its second 
season. Eckford of Brooklyn may be another latterday coinage. Contemporary 
readers would probably understand it as an abbreviation for something like 
Eckford Base Ball Club, of Brooklyn in contrast to "Eckford" clubs in other 
cities. "Eckford" was not common as the root of a ballclub name — in contrast 
to "Athletic", "Atlantic", and "Mutual" — so there must have been little 
need to distinguish the Brooklyn rendition. (Wright (2000) mentions "Eckford" 
clubs in Albany 1864-1867, Syracuse 1870, and Newark 1870, as well as the 
distinctly named "Henry Eckford" club in New York 1860-1864. Due to internal 
turmoil, the Henry Eckfords organized on August 23, 1859, headed by Dr. 
William Bell and consisted of Eckford players who were from New York, today 
referred to as Manhattan. The other Eckfords were not prominent and did 
not travel so there must little occasion to qualify the "Eckford" name 
except locally.) In winter 1871, Eckford did not participate in founding 
the National Association of Professional Base Ball Players (NA), nor did 
it enter a team in that first professional league season. The team did 
win about half of about thirty games against NA opponents, including some 
late summer games picked up after the Fort Wayne Kekiongas went out of 
business. For 1872 Eckford paid the $10 entry fee and assembled a team 
but it was a woefully weak one that lost all of its 11 games played to 
July 9, with average score 5-22. Five of the league's eleven teams would 
drop out by late August but the Eckfords survived. Fortified by seven players 
from Troy and Cleveland, including both pitchers and three other regulars, 
they returned to the field August 9. The strengthened team won three of 
18 games with average score 5-9.[2] The old amateur rivals Atlantic and 
Eckford won only four and three of their last 18 games in the much stronger 
six-team league from mid-August. In four matches they each won two and 
scored 37 runs. They may have been equals on the field once again, but 
Eckford went out of business while Atlantic improved its team and moved 
in to share the Union Grounds with the Mutuals for the last three National 
Association seasons. Source for season records: Wright (2000) has published 
records for dozens of NABBP teams each season, relying on a mix of game 
and season records in contemporary newspapers and guides. Dozens of leading 
clubs by number of matches are included, as are many others. The records 
do not consistently cover either all games played or all championship matches 
