Eclipse Park was the name of three successive baseball grounds in Louisville, 
Kentucky in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. They were the home 
of the Louisville baseball team first known as the Louisville Eclipse and 
later as the Louisville Colonels. Semi-pro baseball had been played at 
the first Eclipse Park as early as 1874. The Louisville Eclipse played 
there from 1882 to 1884. The team was then renamed the Louisville Colonels 
and continued to play under that name from 1885 to 1893. The team was a 
member of the American Association until 1891 when it joined the National 
League when the American Association folded. The original park was located 
at 28th and Elliott streets in west Louisville. The second Eclipse Park 
was built across the street from the original at 28th and Broadway. The 
Louisville Colonels played there from 1893 to 1899. This is the ground 
at which Hall of Famer Honus Wagner made his Major League debut on July 
19, 1897. The unusual name for these ballparks derived from the original 
name of the Association club, the Eclipse. The more local name Colonels 
eventually won out. Nonetheless, Eclipse was among the early team names 
to be a singular word, despite sounding like a plural. A destructive fire 
in 1899 contributed significantly to the once-strong Louisville club being 
contracted after the end of the season. Team owner Barney Dreyfuss moved 
on to acquire the Pittsburgh Pirates. Instead of being scattered to the 
wind, the best players from the Louisville team roster were brought onto 
the Pittsburgh payroll, including Wagner, third baseman Tommy Leach, outfielder-manager 
Fred Clarke, and ace right-hander Deacon Phillippe. This "hybrid vigor" 
effect soon turned the perennial cellar-dwelling Pirates into a three-peat 
pennant winner, and a participant in the first modern World Series. The 
third and last Eclipse Park was located at the corner of 7th and Kentucky 
streets in the Limerick neighborhood of Louisville. This ballpark was built 
by George "White Wings" Tebeau as the home for the American Association 
minor league Louisville Colonels who played there from 1902 thru 1922. 
All three Eclipse Park locations were destroyed by fire.[citation needed] 
