Edward James "Batty" Abbaticchio (April 15, 1877 – January 6, 1957) was 
the first Major League Baseball player and first professional football 
player of Italian ancestry. Born in Latrobe, Pennsylvania, Abbatticchio 
was primarily a shortstop and second baseman, though he also saw playing 
time in the outfield and at third base. He began his baseball career with 
a semi-professional team from Greensburg, Pennsylvania in 1897. Shortly 
afterwards, he made his Major League debut, in the National League, on 
September 4, 1897 for the Philadelphia Phillies. He played in three games 
for the Phillies that season and played another 25 for them in 1898. In 
1899, he played in the Western League for the Minneapolis Millers and in 
1900 in the American Association for the Millers and the Milwaukee Brewers. 
For the 1901 and 1902 seasons, Abbaticchio moved on to play with the Nashville 
Vols of the Southern Association. During those two seasons, he led the 
league in batting with averages of .360 and .367, respectively. For the 
next two years, he played once again in the National League for the Boston 
Beaneaters. He had initially decided to leave baseball in 1906, choosing 
instead to run a hotel in Latrobe. A year later, the Pittsburgh Pirates 
convinced Abbaticchio to join them for their 1907 season. He then stayed 
with Pirates until the 1910 season, when he joined the Boston Doves. During 
his time in Pittsburgh, Ed played on the Pirates' 1909 World Series team. 
However, in the World Series he struck out in his only at-bat, as a pinch 
hitter. However the season prior, on October 4, Ed hit a ball into the 
stands in game against the Chicago Cubs, which was called foul by umpire 
Hank O'Day, who also ruled on the infamous Merkle's Boner. The Pirates 
protested the call which would have been a possible home run or triple, 
and brought the tying run to the plate. Had the Pirates won the game, they 
would've also captured the 1908 National League pennant. The hit eventually 
evolved into an urban legend that had Abbaticchio's foul ball striking 
a woman in the stands, to where she required hospital care, and which resulted 
in her filing a lawsuit against the Cubs. The story of the lawsuit has 
since been debunked as fiction. Abbaticchio was a good friend of Pirates 
great Honus Wagner. The two played alongside each other in the Pirate infield. 
Wagner once called Abbaticchio a "great second baseman with whom he had 
the honor to play with. " Wagner also went on to say that he was "an ever 
lasting credit to baseball, to Pittsburgh, and his home section of Latrobe." 
Statistically was an above-average fielder and base thief. Outside of baseball, 
Abbatticchio was also among the first wave of professional football players. 
He began his professional football career with the Latrobe Athletic Association 
in 1895 and was paid $50 a game for Latrobe. He starred as a fullback and 
kicker. In 1896, Abbatticchio kicked a 23-yard kicked field goal to help 
give Latrobe a 5-0 win over the West Virginia Mountaineers. After their 
season ended, Abbatticchio and several Latrobe players such as John Brallier 
and Harry Ryan traveled to Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania and played for that 
town's local team against a team from DuBois. The game lasted only 12 minutes 
before a riot ended play with Punxsutawney leading, 12-0. In 1897, Abbatticchio 
reportedly kicked several field goals against the Pittsburgh Athletic Club, 
which resulted in a 47-0 Latrobe win, and the worst defeat in the Pittsburgh 
Athletic Club team's history. At the season's end, a Pittsburgh-base football 
expert picked an all-western Pennsylvania team from among the area's amateur, 
professional, and college teams. Abbatticchio and two other Latrobe players, 
tackle Harry Ryan and end Walter Okeson, were chosen to the team. On November 
30, 1899, during a Thanksgiving Day game against Indiana Normal School 
(today Indiana University of Pennsylvania), Abbaticchio was noted for his 
runs in a 35-0 Latrobe win. In 1900, in a two-game series against the Greensburg 
Athletic Association, he was credited for a 23-yard game-winning field 
goal kick in the first game. Meanwhile, in the second game, Abbatticchio 
kicked 12-yard field goal, scored a touchdown, and kicked a goal after, 
in an 11-0 Latrobe win. He is credited by Fielding H. Yost with developing 
the first spiral punt, enabling the ball to travel farther. He died in 
