Edward "Ed" Bolden (January 17, 1881 in Concordville, Pennsylvania – September 
27, 1950 in Darby, Pennsylvania) was an American baseball executive and 
owner in the Negro Leagues. Bolden's first occupation in baseball was as 
a volunteer scorekeeper for a team out of Darby, Pennsylvania, under 19 
year-old manager, Austin Thompson. Bolden was 28.[1] Thompson went on to 
organize the Hilldale Club in the spring of 1910, out of Darby. At the 
time, Darby was a major African American hub of nearly 6,300. The team 
played other amateur clubs in the Philadelphia area. Meanwhile, Bolden 
continued to hold jobs as a domestic servant and later as a clerk at the 
Philedelpia post office.[1] After Thompson established the Hilldale Club 
Bolden took over as owner and head of the team. Bolden transformed the 
team's status from amateur to professional. This aided the team in taking 
off financially, as the team attracted high levels of talent and scheduled 
games against skilled opponents.[1] When it came to recruiting players, 
he would either go out and look for specific types or levels of talent, 
or place advertisements in local newspapers regarding open tryouts. Thompson 
became known as a strict owner and manager, as he demanded a certain set 
of rules for not only his players but also the fans of the ball club. He 
promoted what became known as "clean ball," simply advocating courteous 
behavior. Bolden always had the fans in mind and constantly prided himself 
in constructing new marketing techniques to promote his team. Darby Field 
(Hilldale Park) was conveniently located in terms of the teams fan base, 
but to even further more promote the teams success; Bolden organized a 
deal with a local streetcar company, requesting a line directly to the 
park on game days.[1] He also rented out the ball park and sold advertising 
that scattered throughout the confines of the stadium. 1916 proved to be 
a standout year for the Hilldale Club. Some of the changes that Bolden 
put into effect were practices twice a week, pre-game workouts, and a ban 
on alcohol. Changes not only affected players, as a new grandstand was 
added to the stadium, new uniforms were ordered, and a general admission 
fee of twenty cents were implemented.[1] Bolden had earned somewhat of 
a negative reputation between NNL managers, as he often signed players 
from other teams. One of those owners was Rube Foster, and a feud between 
him and Bolden began in 1920. Foster began to support teams in the east 
such as the Bacharach Giants, and when this club joined the league they 
raided the Hilldale roster. In 1922 Hilldale resigned from the NLL and 
joined the ECL. Yet again Hilldale brought many NLL players with them through 
the course of the transition. The team won three league titles in their 
first three years in the ECL, also playing in the first two Colored World 
Series in 1924 and 1925, winning in 1925. Bolden and Foster were pleased 
that the Series earned the national recognition of both leagues and focused 
national attention on black professional baseball.[1] In 1930 Bolden received 
the threat of a possible demotion from his position at the post office, 
and was forced to leave baseball.[1] Bolden returned to professional baseball 
in 1932 with the Philadelphia Stars, after being gone from the game for 
two years. At first he didn't want to commit the Stars to any league. Bolden 
preferred to make most of the team's money through playing exhibition games 
against white teams, because they ended up losing money when they committed 
to league games.[1] African American baseball thrived during World War 
II during the early 1940s. Crowds grew, salaries rose, commissions increased, 
and teams were actually able to use major-league parks. However, at the 
war's end, integrated baseball began to thrive uncontrollably.[1] Bolden 
greatly supported integrated baseball and hoped to one day play a role 
in the Major Leagues. However, he died before being able to do so. Bolden's 
death truly marked the end of an era in baseball. He left behind great 
marketing techniques and methods to managing a ball club, through implementing 
rules in the club house. These techniques and methods have proved to be 
successful and are commonly used today. He had welcomed professional baseball 
integration as a force that would improve the black leagues but the commercial 
basis was practically destroyed by fans' new focus on the major leagues. 
