Edward John Hearn (born August 23, 1960 in Stuart, Florida) is a former 
Major League Baseball backup catcher who came up with the New York Mets 
during their 1986 World Series championship season. He batted and threw 
right-handed. Hearn was drafted by the Philadelphia Phillies in the fourth 
round of the 1978 Major League Baseball Draft. After four seasons in their 
organization in which he failed to reach higher than the double A level, 
he was released by the Phillies on 7 January 1983. However he was soon 
signed as a minor league free agent by the New York Mets. Hearn spent most 
of 1983 with the Single-A Lynchburg Mets before being promoted to Double-A 
Jackson, batting .274 with five home runs and 49 RBI between the two clubs.[1] 
In 1984, he led the Jackson with a .312 batting average and tied for second 
with eleven home runs. He earned his promotion to Triple-A in 1985, spending 
the whole season with the International League's Tidewater Tides. Hearn 
began the 1986 season in Tidewater when Barry Lyons won the back-up catcher 
job out of Spring training. Manager Davey Johnson, however, reversed that 
decision in early May, and Hearn made his major league debut with the Mets 
on May 17 against the Los Angeles Dodgers at Dodger Stadium. He went two 
for three with a single and a double off Bob Welch, and also caught Greg 
Brock, who had stolen a base off him in the third inning, stealing in the 
seventh.[2] While Hearn was on the Mets' World Series roster, he was the 
only player to not make a post-season appearance. He remains one of the 
more memorable Mets in franchise history thanks to his backup role to future 
Hall of Famer Gary Carter during the teams' 1986 World Championship Season 
and his performance in the team's 1986 music video "Let's Go Mets Go". 
On 27 March 1987, Hearn was included in a trade with the Kansas City Royals, 
along with reliever Rick Anderson and minor league pitcher Mauro Gozzo, 
which brought future star pitcher David Cone and minor league outfielder 
Chris Jelic to the Mets. In retrospect, with the all-star career of Cone 
and the journeyman careers of Hearn, Anderson and Gozzo, this trade is 
often listed as one of the most lop-sided in major league history.[3] Hearn 
was on the opening day roster, and was slated to be the Royals' starting 
catcher in 1987, until a serious shoulder injury ended his season only 
nine games into it. After rehabbing his injury, Hearn spent the start of 
the 1988 season playing in the Florida State League before returning to 
the Royals. However, he only saw action in 7 more games, and for his career, 
Hearn only appeared in thirteen games over two seasons for the Royals, 
batting .257 with no home runs and four runs batted in. Hearn spent the 
next four seasons attempting to get back with the majors while toiling 
away at AA and AAA in the Royals' and Cleveland Indians' organizations. 
Following 17 games with Clevelands AAA team, the Colorado Springs Sky Sox, 
Hearn retired from baseball.[4] Expecting to spend his retirement selling 
insurance in Overland Park, Kansas, in 1992 Hearn was diagnosed with focal 
segmental glomerulosclerosis. Hearn immediately underwent a kidney transplant 
and was required to take several types of medication on a daily basis. 
Due to the debilitating effects of the disease, and mood swings caused 
by the medication, in 1993 Hearn almost committed suicide, but was able 
to fight his way past it through faith and a chance request for him to 
give a motivational seminar.[5] Finding a renewed strength, Hearn struggled 
on despite being treated for skin cancer twice, undergoing two more kidney 
transplants, and being diagnosed with sleep apnea (requiring mechanical 
assistance to breathe while sleeping) - all of which forces him to take 
more than fifty types of medication on a daily basis. Hearn currently works 
as a motivational speaker. In 2001, Hearn was awarded the prestigious Certified 
Speaking Profession (CSP) designation from the National Speakers Association. 
He is the first and only professional athlete to receive this designation 
(only 8% of speakers throughout the world have received this distinguished 
honor). Hearn also operates a charity: the Bottom of the Ninth Foundation,[6] 
which is a mentorship program for children. Hearn has written an autobiography 
entitled Conquering Life’s Curves – Baseball, Battles & Beyond.[7] He resides 
