Edward Lucas (born 1939) is an Emmy winning broadcaster, author, and motivational 
speaker. He has interviewed thousands of sports figures and celebrities 
over a career spanning seven decades. Lucas been inducted into three different 
Halls of Fame. On October 3, 1951, after watching the New York Giants defeat 
the Brooklyn Dodgers to win the National League Pennant on a tiny little 
black and white TV, Ed Lucas, who was just twelve years old, went out to 
play baseball with his friends. He was struck in face by a line drive and 
subsequently lost his sight. Ed was depressed. He pictured himself as a 
helpless soul standing on a street corner with a cup and a cane selling 
pencils. His mother did two things that changed his life. First, she enrolled 
him in a revolutionary school for the blind run by nuns who believed that 
blind people could do anything they set out to do if they could just learn 
to be independent and have to self-confidence.[1] Second, she wrote letters 
to Leo Durocher, the manager of the NY Giants, and to Bobby Thomson, the 
home run hero, explaining what had happened to Ed, and how his love of 
baseball was the only thing lifting his spirits. Durocher invited Ed to 
be his guest at the Polo Grounds for the 1952 season. Yankees star Phil 
Rizzuto, who worked at a New Jersey clothing shop in the off season, heard 
about Ed's story, and also befriended him.[1] This friendship lasted a 
lifetime, until Phil Rizzuto's death in 2007.[2] After graduating from 
grammar school, Ed attended the New York Institute for the Blind where 
he organized a baseball club called the Diamond Dusters. Major League stars 
such as Jackie Robinson and Lindy McDaniel visited the school to talk baseball 
and to read the sports pages to the students.[3] Lucas enrolled in Seton 
Hall University, earning a degree in communications in 1962.[4] He was 
one of the first blind students in the country to regularly attend classes 
with a Seeing Eye Dog. While at Seton Hall Ed started taking a reel-to-reel 
tape recorder to games to interview players. He had his own radio show, 
"Around the Bases With Ed Lucas" on WSOU, one of the premiere college radio 
stations in the United States.[5] In October 1965, Lucas got married.[1] 
Shortly after that, two sons – Edward M. Lucas and Christopher Lucas – 
were born. In 1972, his wife walked out on the marriage, leaving Ed alone 
with two little boys to raise. His family pitched in to help. At the same 
time, the New York Yankees were starting to regain prominence, so his workload 
became heavier. Ed still managed to balance both lives, while buying a 
larger house for his boys, his mother and sister.[citation needed] In September 
1979, after seven years, Lucas' former wife filed a motion seeking custody 
of their sons. The courts agreed, taking Ed's children away from him, simply 
because he was disabled. He was told to just drop the case and forget about 
the boys. Lucas went to court to and fought a long appeal, as his case 
made its way up to the New Jersey Supreme Court. On September 25, 1980, 
Lucas was awarded full and complete custody of his children, making legal 
history as he became one of the first disabled people in the United States 
to win back custody of their children from a non-disabled spouse on appeal 
and one of the few males to ever succeed in a custody case, up to that 
point.[6] After graduating from college, it took Ed a while to establish 
himself as a professional broadcaster. As a blind person trying to make 
his way in a business traditionally limited to the sighted, Lucas faced 
many challenges. He was able to prove himself with freelance jobs for local 
and national television and radio stations, but many of his peers at the 
time in the media corps bristled at the inclusion of a person who cannot 
see the games he's broadcasting in their ranks. They accused Ed's employers 
of hiring him just for show. Ed ignored the doubters and pressed on. He 
eventually earned the respect of his interview subjects and his fellow 
reporters by taking a different approach, often focused on describing things 
that sighted people take for granted. Lucas is now one of the elder statesmen 
in the Press Box, frequently called on by younger reporters for advice 
and information. He also set a record in 2015 by attending his 60th straight 
Yankee Stadium home opener as a member of the press, a streak that began 
in 1956. Ed eclipsed former Yankee P.A. announcer Bob Sheppard's streak 
of 56 straight. On April 21, 2015, Simon & Schuster and Derek Jeter Publishing 
released Ed's autobiography, "Seeing Home: The Ed Lucas Story." A feature 
film based on Ed's life is also in pre-production. http://EdLucasOnline.com 
In the late 1980s, Lucas was introduced by Phil Rizzuto to Allison Pfeifle, 
his florist, who was also legally blind. After a long courtship, Lucas 
married Allison at home plate in Yankee Stadium on March 10, 2006. This 
was the first time that anyone was allowed to be married in that hallowed 
spot.[not in citation given][7][8] In 1995, Lucas was inducted into the 
New Jersey Sports Writers Association Hall of Fame, alongside a class that 
included Super Bowl winning quarterback Joe Theismann and Baseball Hall 
of Famer Larry Doby. Inspired by, and together with, his late friend Phil 
Rizzuto, Lucas has helped to raise millions of dollars, through the Ed 
Lucas Foundation, to help disabled people all over the world. After Mr. 
Rizzuto's passing in 2007, Yankee legend Gene Michael joined Ed in his 
charitable efforts. In 2001, Ed was honored to be chosen, along with his 
son, as one of the people to carry the 2002 Salt Lake City Winter Olympics 
flame through the streets of New York City on its way to the 2002 Winter 
Olympics. The Msgr. William Noé Field Archives & Special Collections Center 
in conjunction at Seton Hall University sponsored an exhibit of photographs 
and memorabilia from Ed's career in the Walsh Library Arcade from August 
to November 2007.[9] In 2008, Seton Hall, with the support of WCBS 880 
AM, the Yankees Radio Network, created Strikeouts for Scholarships, a scholarship 
program for disabled students in honor of Ed Lucas.[10] In 2008–2009, Lucas 
won an Emmy Award for his work with the YES Network.[11][12] In 2009, Ed 
Lucas was inducted into the Irish American Baseball Hall of Fame,[13] along 
with longtime Dodgers owner Walter O'Malley, broadcaster Vin Scully, sluggers 
