Eddie "The King" Feigner (March 25, 1925 – February 9, 2007) was an American 
softball player. Feigner (pronounced FAY-ner) was born in Walla Walla, 
Washington as Myrle Vernon King. He been a softball player for much of 
his life, and turned his attention to the sport full time following an 
enlistment in the US Marine Corps. He first assembled his four-man team, 
known as "The King and His Court," in 1946 and took on all comers, first 
in the Pacific Northwest and then around the country. The team was known 
for performing tricks that entertained the audience. The King and His Court 
touring team played over ten thousand softball games in a hundred countries 
since the late 1940s and achieved widespread fame similar to that of the 
Harlem Globetrotters. Feigner's meticulous records claim 9,743 victories, 
141,517 strikeouts, 930 no-hitters and 238 perfect games. The Washington 
Post described him as "the greatest softball pitcher who ever lived." Despite 
his substansail record, Feigner said that while his team was known for 
taking on local softball teams and often winning by considerable margins, 
the intent of the King and His Court was to entertain audiences, never 
to embarrass opposing players. "When a man steps up to the plate, we have 
nothing but respect for him" he was oft noted for quoting. On February 
18, 1967, Feigner appeared in a celebrity charity softball game against 
many Major League players. In the game Feigner struck out Willie Mays, 
Willie McCovey, Brooks Robinson, Roberto Clemente, Maury Wills, and Harmon 
Killebrew all in a row.[1]Feighner also struck out Alan Chambers three 
times in a 1976 exhibition game. Feigner retired from pitching after suffering 
a stroke in 2000 but continued to tour with his team, acting as emcee and 
telling stories while the team played. He is a member of the Baseball Reliquary 
"Shrine of the Eternals." The team was satirized on a 2006 episode of the 
Fox sitcom King of the Hill entitled "You Gotta Believe (In Moderation)" 
by a team called The Ace of Diamonds and His Jewels. Feigner died in February 
2007 in Huntsville, Alabama. He is buried in the Huntsville Memory Gardens 
Cemetery.[2] "The King and His Court" was a four-man team: pitcher, catcher, 
first baseman, and shortstop. When asked why the team had four members, 
Feigner answered he had been told no team could take on his pitching so 
he should reduce the roster to simply himself. Feigner accepted the dare 
and originally wanted a two-man team of himself and catcher, but increased 
it to three in case an opposing player got a hit. He then added a fourth 
player when he realized that if all three of his team were on base, no 
