Edward M. "Eddie" Layton (October 10, 1925 – December 26, 2004) played 
the organ at old Yankee Stadium for nearly 40 years, earning him membership 
in the New York Sports Hall of Fame.[1] Layton was a native of Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania. He graduated from the West Chester State Teachers College 
majoring in meteorology with a minor in music. He began playing the organ 
when he was twelve years old. While serving in the United States Navy during 
World War II, he learned to play the Hammond organ. After the war, he began 
a career as a professional organist writing scores for soap operas on CBS.[2] 
Two noted CBS soap operas were "The Secret Storm" and "Love is a Many Splendored 
Thing." During that time, he recorded nearly 27 albums of organ music. 
He was also noted for traveling the world as a spokesperson and artist 
for the Hammond Organ company. Layton joined the New York Yankees franchise 
in 1967 when CBS purchased the Yankees from Dan Topping. Because of pressure 
from the success of the New York Mets, their new Shea Stadium facility 
and the popularity of their organist, Jane Jarvis, Topping had installed 
an organ in Yankee Stadium at the beginning of the 1965 season. Lowrey 
organ demonstrator Toby Wright was the first Yankee organist and did the 
1965 and 1966 seasons. Team president Mike Burke brought Layton in to play 
organ music at the stadium in 1967. At the time, he had never been to the 
stadium and knew nothing about baseball.[3] He went on to play the organ 
for the Yankees for over three decades, taking a break from 1971 to 1977 
to pursue other musical commitments. (Wright had returned as organist during 
that time.) When he retired on September 28, 2003, he played a final performance 
of "Take Me Out to the Ball Game", while fans chanted "Eddie! Eddie!".[1] 
Current New York Yankees organists Ed Alstrom and Paul Cartier were recruited 
by Layton to take his place at Yankee Stadium. In addition to playing for 
the Yankees, Layton was the organist for the New York Knicks and the New 
York Rangers from 1967 to 1985.[4] He also played for several seasons of 
New York Islanders games in the 1990s[2] and served one stint as organist 
for the indoor New York Cosmos team at Madison Square Garden. Layton also 
performed concerts in more than 200 cities for the Hammond Organ Company 
and released 27 albums.[3] In addition, Layton played the organ at Radio 
City Music Hall for thirty years of Pace University commencements held 
there. The student union at Pace University's New York City campus was 
named in his honor.[5] Layton loved sailing and owned his own tugboat. 
He also owned a huge collection of model trains he maintained at his Forest 
Hills, New York home. On December 26, 2004, Layton died of natural causes 
at his home in Forest Hills, New York at age 77, (or age 79, according 
to various reports) following a brief illness.[2] He was buried at Mount 
Hebron Cemetery in Queens, New York City, with his feet pointed away from 
