Eddie Vedder (born Edward Louis Severson; December 23, 1964) is an American 
musician, singer and songwriter best known as a member of the rock band 
Pearl Jam, with whom he performs lead vocals and is one of three guitarists. 
He is known for his powerful baritone vocals. He is also involved in making 
music and contributes to albums by other artists. In 2007, Vedder released 
his first solo album as a soundtrack for the film Into the Wild (2007). 
His second album Ukulele Songs and a live DVD titled Water on the Road 
were released in 2011. Vedder was born Edward Louis Severson III in the 
Chicago suburb of Evanston, Illinois, on December 23, 1964, to Karen Lee 
Vedder and Edward Louis Severson, Jr.[4] His parents divorced in 1965, 
when Vedder was an infant. His mother soon remarried, to a man named Peter 
Mueller. Vedder was raised believing that Mueller was his biological father, 
and he went by the name Edward Mueller for a time.[5] Vedder's ancestry 
includes German and Danish.[4] While living in Evanston, Vedder's family 
fostered seven younger children in a group home.[6] In the mid-1970s, the 
family, including Vedder's three younger half-brothers, moved to San Diego 
County, California. It was at this point that Vedder, who had received 
a guitar from his mother on his twelfth birthday, began turning to music 
(as well as surfing) as a source of comfort. He particularly found solace 
in The Who's 1973 album, Quadrophenia.[7] He said, "When I was around 15 
or 16... I felt all alone... I was all alone—except for music."[8] His 
mother and Mueller divorced when Vedder was in his late teens. His mother 
and brothers moved back to the Chicago area, but Vedder remained with his 
stepfather in California so he would not have to change high schools. After 
the divorce, Vedder learned the truth about his parentage: Mueller was 
really his stepfather. Vedder had met his biological father briefly as 
a child, but had believed that Severson was merely an old friend of his 
parents. By the time Vedder learned the truth, Severson had died of multiple 
sclerosis. By his senior year at San Dieguito High School, Vedder was on 
his own, living in an apartment and supporting himself with a nightly job 
at a drug store in Encinitas.[8] He eventually dropped out of high school 
in his senior year due to the pressures of balancing school with working.[8] 
He joined the rest of his family in Chicago, and it was at this time that 
he changed his name to Eddie Vedder, Vedder being his mother's maiden name. 
In the early 1980s, while working as a waiter, Eddie earned his high school 
GED, and briefly attended a community college near Chicago.[5][9] In 1984, 
Vedder returned to San Diego, with his girlfriend, Beth Liebling. He kept 
busy recording demo tapes at his home and working various jobs, including 
a position as a contracted security guard at the La Valencia Hotel in La 
Jolla.[10] Vedder had several stints in San Diego area bands, including 
Surf and Destroy and The Butts.[6] One of those bands, called Indian Style,[11] 
included future Rage Against the Machine and Audioslave drummer Brad Wilk.[12] 
In 1988, Vedder became the vocalist for the San Diego progressive funk 
rock band Bad Radio. The music of the original incarnation of the band 
was influenced by Duran Duran; however, after Vedder joined Bad Radio, 
the band moved on to a more alternative rock sound influenced by the Red 
Hot Chili Peppers.[13] In the 1980s he worked part-time as a night attendant 
at a local gas station.[14] Through the Southern California music scene, 
Vedder met former Red Hot Chili Peppers drummer Jack Irons, who became 
a friend of Vedder and who would play basketball with him.[15] Later in 
1990, Irons gave him a demo tape from a band in Seattle, Washington, that 
was looking for a singer. He listened to the tape shortly before going 
surfing, where lyrics came to him.[16] Vedder wrote lyrics for three of 
the songs in what he later described as a "mini-opera" entitled Momma-Son. 
The songs tell the story of a young man who, like Vedder, learns that he 
had been lied to about his paternity and that his real father is dead, 
grows up to become a serial killer, and is eventually imprisoned and sentenced 
to death.[16] Vedder recorded vocals for the three songs, and mailed the 
demo tape back to Seattle. The three songs would later become Pearl Jam's 
"Alive", "Once", and "Footsteps". After hearing Vedder's tape, former Mother 
Love Bone members Stone Gossard and Jeff Ament invited Vedder to come to 
Seattle to audition for their new band. They were instantly impressed with 
his unique sound. At the time, Gossard and Ament were working on the Temple 
of the Dog project founded by Soundgarden's Chris Cornell as a musical 
tribute to Mother Love Bone's frontman Andrew Wood, who died of a heroin 
overdose at age 24. Soundgarden drummer Matt Cameron and newcomer Mike 
McCready were also a part of the project. The song "Hunger Strike" became 
a duet between Cornell and Vedder. Cornell later said of Vedder that "he 
sang half of that song not even knowing that I'd wanted the part to be 
there and he sang it exactly the way I was thinking about doing it, just 
instinctively."[17] Vedder would provide background vocals on several other 
songs as well. In April 1991, Temple of the Dog was released through A&M 
Records. Pearl Jam was formed in 1990 by Ament, Gossard, and McCready,[16] 
who then recruited Vedder and three different drummers in sequence.[6][18][19] 
The band originally took the name Mookie Blaylock, but was forced to change 
it when the band signed to Epic Records in 1991, instead calling their 
debut album Ten, after Blaylock's jersey number. Ten broke the band into 
the mainstream, and became one of the best selling alternative albums of 
the 1990s, being certified 13x Platinum. The band found itself amidst the 
sudden popularity and attention given to the Seattle music scene and the 
genre known as grunge. The single "Jeremy" received Grammy Award nominations 
for Best Rock Song and Best Hard Rock Performance in 1993.[20] Pearl Jam 
received four awards at the 1993 MTV Video Music Awards for its music video 
for "Jeremy", including Video of the Year and Best Group Video.[21] Ten 
ranks number 207 on Rolling Stone magazine's list of the 500 greatest albums 
of all time,[22] and "Jeremy" was ranked number 11 on VH1's list of the 
100 greatest songs of the '90s.[23] Following an intense touring schedule, 
the band went into the studio to record what would become its second studio 
album, Vs., released in 1993. Upon its release, Vs. set the record at the 
time for most copies of an album sold in a week,[25] and spent five weeks 
at number one on the Billboard 200. Vs. was nominated for a Grammy Award 
for Best Rock Album in 1995.[26] From Vs., the song "Daughter" received 
a Grammy nomination for Best Rock Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocal 
and the song "Go" received a Grammy nomination for Best Hard Rock Performance.[27] 
Feeling the pressures of success, with much of the burden of Pearl Jam's 
popularity falling on Vedder,[16] the band decided to decrease the level 
of promotion for its albums, including refusing to release music videos.[28] 
Vedder's issue with fame came from what he stated as "what happens when 
a lot of these people start thinking you can change their lives or save 
their lives or whatever and create these impossible fuckin' expectations 
that in the end just start tearing you apart."[29] In 1994, the band began 
a much-publicized boycott of Ticketmaster, which lasted for three years 
and limited the band's ability to tour in the United States.[30] During 
the mid-1990s, Vedder faced what he called a "pretty intense stalker problem".[31] 
Vedder would refer to the issue in the song "Lukin" from No Code.[32] Later 
that same year the band released its third studio album, Vitalogy, which 
became the band's third straight album to reach multi-platinum status. 
It was at this time that Vedder began to be featured more on rhythm guitar, 
as well as on back up vocals and some drumming. The pressure of fame is 
a common theme of Vedder's songs on the album.[33] The album received Grammy 
nominations for Album of the Year and Best Rock Album in 1996.[34] Vitalogy 
was ranked number 492 on Rolling Stone magazine's list of the 500 greatest 
albums of all time.[22] The lead single "Spin the Black Circle" won a Grammy 
Award in 1996 for Best Hard Rock Performance.[26] Although Dave Abbruzzese 
performed on the album Vitalogy, he was fired in August 1994, four months 
before the album was released.[31] The band cited political differences 
between Abbruzzese and the other members; for example, he disagreed with 
the Ticketmaster boycott.[31] He was replaced by Jack Irons, a close friend 
of Vedder and the former and original drummer of the Red Hot Chili Peppers.[6] 
Regarding the approach Pearl Jam took after its initial success, Vedder 
stated, "We've had the luxury of writing our own job description...and 
that description has basically been cut down to just one line: make music."[35] 
The band subsequently released No Code in 1996 and Yield in 1998. In 1998, 
prior to Pearl Jam's U.S. Yield Tour, Irons left the band due to dissatisfaction 
with touring.[36] Pearl Jam enlisted former Soundgarden drummer Matt Cameron 
as Irons' replacement on an initially temporary basis,[36] but he soon 
became a permanent replacement for Irons. "Do the Evolution" (from Yield) 
received a Grammy nomination for Best Hard Rock Performance.[37] In 1998, 
Pearl Jam recorded "Last Kiss", a cover of a 1960s ballad made famous by 
J. Frank Wilson and the Cavaliers. It was released on the band's 1998 fan 
club Christmas single; however, by popular demand, the cover was released 
to the public as a single in 1999. "Last Kiss" peaked at number two on 
the Billboard charts and became the band's highest-charting single. In 
2000, the band released its sixth studio album, Binaural, and initiated 
a successful and ongoing series of official bootlegs. The band released 
seventy-two such live albums in 2000 and 2001, and set a record for most 
albums to debut in the Billboard 200 at the same time.[38] "Grievance" 
(from Binaural) received a Grammy nomination for Best Hard Rock Performance.[39] 
The band released its seventh studio album, Riot Act, in 2002. Pearl Jam's 
contribution to the 2003 film, Big Fish, "Man of the Hour", was nominated 
for a Golden Globe Award in 2004.[40] The band's eighth studio album, the 
eponymous Pearl Jam, was released in 2006. The band released its ninth 
studio album, Backspacer, in 2009 and its tenth studio album, Lightning 
Bolt, in 2013. On Pearl Jam records, Vedder uses the pseudonym "Jerome 
Turner" for his non-musical (usually design and artwork) contributions. 
He has also at times used the pseudonym of "Wes C. Addle" ("West Seattle"). 
Vedder has contributed solo material to several soundtracks and compilations, 
including the soundtracks for the films Dead Man Walking (1995), I Am Sam 
(2001), A Brokedown Melody (2004), Body of War (2007), and Reign Over Me 
(2007). Vedder collaborated with Pakistani musician Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan 
for his contributions to the Dead Man Walking soundtrack. He covered The 
Beatles' "You've Got to Hide Your Love Away" for the I Am Sam soundtrack. 
Vedder wrote "Man of the Hour" that Pearl Jam recorded for Tim Burton's 
Big Fish Soundtrack (2003). Vedder wrote two songs for the 2007 feature 
documentary, Body of War, produced by Ellen Spiro and Phil Donahue: "No 
More" (a song referring to the Iraq War) and "Long Nights". Vedder and 
the supergroup The Million Dollar Bashers, which includes members from 
Sonic Youth, Wilco, and Bob Dylan's band, covered Dylan's "All Along the 
Watchtower" for the biopic film, I'm Not There (2007). Pearl Jam recorded 
a cover version of The Who's song "Love, Reign o'er Me" for the film Reign 
Over Me, which takes its title from the song. In 2010, Vedder recorded 
a new song, "Better Days", which appeared on the soundtrack to the 2010 
film Eat Pray Love.[41][42] Vedder contributed an album's worth of songs 
to the soundtrack for the 2007 film, Into the Wild. The soundtrack was 
released on September 18, 2007 through J Records. It includes covers of 
the Indio song "Hard Sun" and the Jerry Hannan song "Society".[43] Vedder 
said that having to write songs based on a narrative "simplified things". 
He said, "There were fewer choices. The story was there and the scenes 
were there."[44] Vedder's songs written for the film feature a folk sound. 
Thom Jurek of AllMusic called the soundtrack a "collection of folksy, rootsy 
tunes where rock & roll makes fleeting appearances."[45] Vedder won a 2008 
Golden Globe Award for the song "Guaranteed" from Into the Wild.[46] He 
was also nominated for a Golden Globe Award for his contributions to the 
film's original score.[47] At the 2008 Grammy Awards, "Guaranteed" received 
a nomination for Best Song Written for a Motion Picture, Television or 
Other Visual Media.[48] "Guaranteed" was also nominated a 2008 World Soundtrack 
Award in the category of Best Original Song Written Directly for a Film.[49] 
At the 2009 Grammy Awards, "Rise" received a nomination for Best Rock Vocal 
Performance, Solo.[50] Vedder promoted the Into the Wild soundtrack with 
his first solo tour, which began in April 2008. The April leg of the tour, 
dubbed the "April Fools Tour", began in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada 
at The Centre on April 2, 2008 and was composed of ten dates focusing on 
the West Coast of the United States.[51][52] Vedder continued the tour 
with a second leg in August 2008 composed of fourteen dates focusing on 
the East Coast and Canada.[53] The second leg of the tour began in Boston, 
Massachusetts at the Boston Opera House and ended in Chicago, Illinois 
at the Auditorium Theatre.[54] In June 2009, Vedder followed his 2008 solo 
tour with another solo tour composed of fourteen dates focusing on the 
Eastern United States and Hawaii, which began in Albany, New York at the 
Palace Theatre and continued through to Honolulu at the Hawaii Theatre.[55] 
Vedder released his second solo album titled Ukulele Songs, a collection 
of original songs and covers performed on the ukulele, on May 31, 2011. 
The first single from the album, "Longing to Belong", was released through 
digital retailers on March 21. A live DVD titled Water on the Road, featuring 
live performances from two shows in Washington, D.C. during Vedder's 2008 
solo tour, was released the same day as Ukulele Songs. In addition to playing 
with Pearl Jam and Temple of the Dog, Vedder has performed or recorded 
with numerous well-known artists. He has appeared on albums by The Who, 
Ramones, Neil Young, R.E.M., Neil Finn, Bad Religion, Mark Seymour, Cat 
Power, Mike Watt, Fastbacks, Wellwater Conspiracy, Jack Irons, and John 
Doe, and has also recorded with The Strokes, Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan, Supersuckers, 
Susan Sarandon, and Zeke. In the months of June and July 2006, Vedder made 
live performances jamming with Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers, singing 
on many tracks, including lead vocals on "The Waiting" and backing vocals 
on "American Girl". Vedder performed the songs "Break on Through (To the 
Other Side)", "Light My Fire" and "Roadhouse Blues" with the remaining 
members of The Doors at the 1993 Rock and Roll Hall of Fame induction ceremony. 
He also performed with R.E.M. at the 2007 Rock and Roll Hall of Fame induction 
ceremony and with The Stooges at the 2010 Rock and Roll Hall of Fame induction 
ceremony. Vedder made a guest appearance at the Ramones' last show on August 
6, 1996 at the Palace in Hollywood.[56] Vedder has also performed live 
on stage with some of the biggest names in music and film including Pete 
Townshend, Paul McCartney, Rolling Stones, U2, Bruce Springsteen, Robert 
Plant, Roger Waters, Sting, Peter Gabriel, Cat Stevens, Chris Martin, Flea, 
Beyoncé, Bryan Adams, Ben Harper, Jack Johnson, Roger Daltrey, Jay-Z, Kings 
of Leon, Dave Grohl, Chad Smith, Perry Farrell, Cheap Trick, The Strokes, 
My Morning Jacket, Beck, Sheryl Crow, Jerry Cantrell, Andrew Stockdale, 
Josh Homme, Mike Ness, Neil Young, Guided By Voices, Ace Frehley, Dave 
Matthews, Elvis Costello, X (American band), Natalie Maines, Tim Robbins, 
Johnny Depp, Adam Sandler, Jeanne Tripplehorn, Glen Hansard, Simon Townshend, 
Joe Elliott and many others. Vedder had a brief acting cameo in the 1992 
movie, Singles, along with Jeff Ament and Stone Gossard of Pearl Jam. He 
appeared as himself, playing drums in lead actor Matt Dillon's backing 
band, Citizen Dick.[57] He was also interviewed for the 1996 grunge documentary, 
Hype! He appears in the 2003 Ramones documentary, End of the Century: The 
Story of the Ramones. In 2007, he made a cameo as himself in the comedy 
film, Walk Hard: The Dewey Cox Story. He appears in the 2007 Tom Petty 
documentary, Runnin' Down a Dream, the 2008 political documentary, Slacker 
Uprising, and the 2009 Howard Zinn documentary, The People Speak, based 
upon A People's History of the United States.[58] He was featured in the 
2008 Greg Kohs documentary, Song Sung Blue, performing with Lightning and 
Thunder. He had a one-scene cameo in the second episode of the second season 
of the IFC television show Portlandia. He also appears in the 2012 documentary 
West of Memphis, due to his protesting against the case. Vedder is known 
for his social and political views. Discussing his views on current issues 
in the United States, Vedder said, "People on death row, the treatment 
of animals, women's right to choose. So much in America is based on religious 
fundamentalist Christianity. Grow up! This is the modern world!"[59] In 
1992, Spin printed an article by Vedder, entitled "Reclamation", which 
detailed his views on abortion.[60] Vedder and Pearl Jam have consistently 
supported abortion rights and performed at Rock for Choice in 1994.[61] 
Vedder was outspoken in support of Green Party presidential candidate Ralph 
Nader in 2000 and played at Green Party super rallies in Chicago and New 
York City.[62] Pearl Jam played a series of concerts on the 2004 Vote for 
Change tour, supporting the candidacy of John Kerry for U.S. President. 
Vedder told Rolling Stone magazine, "I supported Ralph Nader in 2000, but 
it's a time of crisis. We have to get a new administration in."[63] In 
2005, during Pearl Jam's first South American tour, Vedder stated, to the 
immediate and effusive support from the crowd in Rio de Janeiro, that "next 
time we come to Brazil, the world will be a better place to live, as George 
Bush will no longer be the President of the United States." Vedder supported 
the candidacy of Barack Obama in 2008[64] and 2012.[65] In his spare time, 
Vedder is a surfer and active in surf-related conservation efforts, most 
notably The Surfrider Foundation.[66] Vedder shows his support for environmental 
activism by sporting an Earth First! tattoo on his right calf. The logo 
is of a pipe wrench crossed with a stone hammer. Vedder was a longtime 
and outspoken supporter for the Free the West Memphis Three movement, a 
cause that advocated the release of three young men who were convicted 
in 1994 of the gruesome murders of three boys in West Memphis, Arkansas. 
In an interview with Larry King on December 19, 2007, Damien Echols, who 
was then on death row for the murders, said that Vedder had been the "greatest 
friend a person could have" and that he had collaborated with him while 
in prison.[67] The song "Army Reserve" on Pearl Jam's 2006 self-titled 
album features a lyrical collaboration between Vedder and Echols. On August 
19, 2011, Vedder and Natalie Maines attended the release hearing and arranged 
a celebration party for them afterwards. Critic Jim DeRogatis describes 
Vedder's vocals as a "Jim Morrison-like vocal growl".[68] Greg Prato of 
AllMusic said, "With his hard-hitting and often confessional lyrical style 
and Jim Morrison-esque baritone, Vedder also became one of the most copied 
lead singers in all of rock."[69] Vedder has inducted The Doors, Neil Young, 
the Ramones, and R.E.M. into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, and in his 
induction speeches he has cited them all as influences. Other influences 
that Vedder has cited include Bruce Springsteen, John Mellencamp, Led Zeppelin, 
Aerosmith, U2, The Who, Pink Floyd, The Jackson 5, The Beatles, Frank Zappa, 
Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers, Elvis Costello, Talking Heads, Sonic Youth, 
Fugazi, Tom Waits, Huey Lewis, Bob Dylan, and the Pixies.[32][70] Vedder 
was heavily inspired by the early Jethro Tull sound, stating that: "I'm 
a big fan of Jethro Tull, and I listen to this record [Stand Up] every 
night before I go on stage!"[71] Vedder's lyrical topics range from personal 
("Alive", from Ten; "Better Man", from Vitalogy) to social and political 
concerns ("Even Flow", from Ten; "World Wide Suicide", from Pearl Jam). 
His lyrics have often invoked the use of storytelling and have included 
themes of freedom, individualism, and sympathy for troubled individuals.[72] 
Other recurring themes include the use of water metaphors,[73] as well 
as the idea of leaving everything behind to start again (featured in such 
songs as "Rearviewmirror", from Vs.; "MFC", from Yield; "Evacuation", from 
Binaural; and "Gone", from Pearl Jam). Although best known as a vocalist, 
Vedder also plays guitar on many Pearl Jam songs, beginning with the Vs. 
songs "Rearviewmirror" and "Elderly Woman Behind the Counter in a Small 
Town". When the band started, Gossard and McCready were clearly designated 
as rhythm and lead guitarists, respectively. The dynamic began to change 
when Vedder started to play more rhythm guitar during the Vitalogy era. 
McCready said in 2006, "Even though there are three guitars, I think there's 
maybe more room now. Stone will pull back and play a two-note line and 
Ed will do a power chord thing, and I fit into all that."[74] Vedder's 
guitar playing helped the band's sound progress toward a more stripped-down 
style; the songs "Rearviewmirror" and "Corduroy" (from Vitalogy) feature 
Vedder's raw, punk-influenced guitar playing. As he had more influence 
on the band's sound, Vedder sought to make the band's musical output less 
catchy. He said, "I felt that with more popularity, we were going to be 
crushed, our heads were going to pop like grapes."[32] He has also contributed 
performances on the ukulele, harmonica, accordion, and electric sitar to 
various Pearl Jam recordings. In 2012 his black Fender Telecaster was featured 
in a painting by modern artist Karl Haglund. 'Weird Al' Yankovic wrote 
the song "My Baby's in Love with Eddie Vedder" for his album Running with 
Scissors. Local H also wrote a song involving Eddie simply named "Eddie 
Vedder" which appeared on their 1996 album As Good as Dead. Vedder himself 
has influenced many musicians including UK indie folk singer-songwriter 
David Knowles.[75] Throughout Pearl Jam's career, Vedder has interacted 
with the crowd during the band's concerts. Early in Pearl Jam's existence, 
Vedder and the band became known for their intense live performances. Vedder 
participated in stage diving as well as crowd surfing. During the early 
part of Pearl Jam's career, Vedder was known to climb the stage lighting 
rig and hang from the stage roof. Looking back at this time, Vedder said, 
"It's hard for us to watch early performances, even though that's when 
people think we were on fire and young. Playing music for as long as I 
had been playing music and then getting a shot at making a record and at 
having an audience and stuff, it's just like an untamed force...a different 
kind of energy. And I find it kind of hard to watch those early performances 
because it's so just fucking, semi-testosterone-fueled or whatever. But 
it didn't come from jock mentality. It came from just being let out of 
the gates."[76] Vedder began incorporating social commentary and political 
criticism into his lyrics and performances early in his career with Pearl 
Jam. He usually comments on politics between songs, often to criticize 
U.S. foreign policy. During Pearl Jam's 1992 appearance on MTV Unplugged, 
Vedder stood atop his stool, took out a marker pen, and wrote "pro-choice" 
down his arm in large letters when the band performed the song "Porch". 
During Pearl Jam's 2007 Lollapalooza headlining show, Vedder and the band 
played a song telling the crowd in Chicago to boycott the oil company B.P. 
Amoco because they had been polluting Lake Michigan.[77] Vedder has been 
ranked at #7 on a list of "Best lead singer of All Time", compiled by Rolling 
Stone.[78] and Loudwire put him at #36 on their Top 50 Hard Rock + Heavy 
Metal Frontmen[79] Other singers like Roger Daltrey of The Who[80] and 
Bruce Dickinson of Iron Maiden have praised him for his singing ability.[81] 
Vedder attended San Dieguito High School, now called San Dieguito Academy. 
Vedder donated proceeds from a 2006 Pearl Jam concert in San Diego toward 
the construction of a theater for the school in the name of his former 
drama teacher, Clayton E. Liggett. Liggett was Vedder's mentor in high 
school. Vedder wrote the song "Long Road" (from Merkin Ball) upon hearing 
of Liggett's death in 1995.[82] In 1994, Vedder married his longtime girlfriend, 
musician Beth Liebling. The couple divorced in 2000. Vedder's music style 
transformed around this same period with more focus on ukulele and deeper 
lyrics.[83] Vedder is a friend of The Who guitarist Pete Townshend and 
former Audioslave and current Soundgarden frontman, Chris Cornell. Vedder 
had shared vocal duties with the latter in Temple of The Dog. Townshend 
discouraged Vedder from retiring in 1993.[84] In late 2007, Vedder wrote 
the foreword to a new Pete Townshend biography, Who Are You: The Life of 
Pete Townshend. The book was published in the UK in March 2008 and in the 
U.S. in October 2008. Vedder was a close friend of the late Ramones guitarist 
Johnny Ramone, with Vedder being at his side when he died. Since Ramone's 
death, Vedder and Pearl Jam have played the Ramones' "I Believe in Miracles" 
regularly at live shows. While driving home from Ramone's funeral, Vedder 
wrote the lyrics for the Pearl Jam song "Life Wasted" (from Pearl Jam).[32] 
He is also a friend of famed surfers Kelly Slater, Laird Hamilton, and 
fellow musicians Jack Johnson and Ben Harper. He was featured with Laird 
Hamilton in an episode of the documentary series Iconoclasts in 2006. While 
surfing with Tim Finn in New Zealand on March 25, 1995,[85] Vedder was 
carried 250 feet (76 m) off the coast and had to be rescued by lifeguards.[86] 
He also has paddled outrigger canoes on occasion and in 2005 was nearly 
lost at sea trying to paddle from Moloka'i to Oahu.[87] Vedder is a Chicago 
Bulls and Chicago Bears fan and a long-time, die-hard fan of the Chicago 
Cubs.[88] Vedder also became a fan of the Seattle SuperSonics while he 
was living in Seattle, and could be spotted at KeyArena many nights attending 
Sonics games. He is friends with several Chicago sports figures, including 
former White Sox pitcher Jack McDowell, former Bulls player Dennis Rodman, 
former Blackhawks player Chris Chelios, Cubs GM Theo Epstein and former 
Cubs pitcher Kerry Wood. Vedder occasionally wears a Walter Payton jersey 
while performing onstage. Vedder was wearing a White Sox hat given to him 
by McDowell during Pearl Jam's 1992 Saturday Night Live and MTV Unplugged 
appearances. In November 1993, Vedder and McDowell were involved in a bar 
room brawl in New Orleans, Louisiana that resulted in Vedder being arrested 
for public drunkenness and disturbing the peace.[89] The Pearl Jam song 
"Black, Red, Yellow" (from the "Hail, Hail" single) is about the Rodman/Michael 
Jordan/Phil Jackson-era Chicago Bulls teams.[90] The middle of the song 
features a voice-mail message Rodman left for Vedder asking Vedder to return 
his call. Vedder sang the national anthem before the third game of the 
1998 NBA Finals in Chicago,[91] and has sung "Take Me Out to the Ball Game" 
at six Cubs games, including Game 5 of the 2016 World Series. In 2007, 
a few days before performing with Pearl Jam in Chicago for Lollapalooza, 
he threw out the first pitch at Wrigley Field, the home of the Cubs.[92] 
Vedder wrote a song at the request of former Cubs shortstop and first baseman 
Ernie Banks paying tribute to the Cubs called "All the Way".[93][94] On 
September 18, 2008, the song was made available for digital download via 
Pearl Jam's official website for US$0.99.[95] The day after the Cubs won 
the 2016 World Series, the Cubs' official Twitter account posted a montage 
video backed by Vedder's song in a tribute to Cubs fans.[96] Vedder married 
his longtime girlfriend, model Jill McCormick, on September 18, 2010.[97][98][99] 
They have two daughters, Olivia (born 2004) and Harper (born 2008).[100] 
