As player As coach Edgar Martínez (born January 2, 1963[1]), nicknamed 
"Gar" and "Papi", is a former Major League Baseball designated hitter and 
third baseman and current hitting coach of the Seattle Mariners. He spent 
his entire 18-year Major League Baseball career with the Mariners. He is 
of Puerto Rican descent. On December 19, 1982, the Seattle Mariners signed 
Martínez to a minor league contract. Martínez worked his way through the 
Mariners minor league system, making stops with the Chattanooga Lookouts 
and the Calgary Cannons. Martínez made his major league debut on September 
12, 1987, and became a fixture in the Mariners' lineup in 1990, replacing 
Jim Presley at third base. He began his career as a third baseman and won 
an American League batting title in 1992, but then he tore his hamstring 
during an exhibition game at BC Place Stadium in Vancouver, B.C. on an 
unzipped seam in the turf between first and second, just before the 1993 
season, and never fully recovered.[2] Martínez became a full-time designated 
hitter in 1995. To date, he is the only designated hitter ever to have 
won a batting title, winning it in 1995 with a .356 average. On August 
9, 2004 Martínez announced his retirement, effective at the end of the 
season. Martínez said this about his choice of retiring and career in Seattle: 
It is hard, very hard, I feel in my mind and my heart I want to keep playing. 
But my body is saying something differently, so I feel this is a good decision. 
Martínez is perhaps best remembered for his performance in the 1995 American 
League Division Series against the New York Yankees in which he hit .571 
and was on base 18 times in 5 games. In game 4 of that series, he hit a 
three-run homer, then a grand slam home run that broke a 6-6 tie, en route 
to an 11-8 victory. His RBI total in that game set a single-game postseason 
record. The win knotted the best-of-five series at two games apiece and 
forced game 5. Down 5-4 in the 11th inning of that decisive game, Martínez 
hit a two-run double, called "The Double" by Mariners fans, off Jack McDowell, 
winning the game for the Mariners, 6-5, and series, 3-2. The win sent the 
Mariners to the American League Championship Series for the first time 
in franchise history, against the Cleveland Indians, a series they would 
eventually lose in 6 games. A lot of people remember that double when they 
talk about my career, I'd say, yeah, that would define my career. Baseball 
lore says that Martínez saved Seattle baseball with that double. While 
his series-winning hit did help build the groundswell that the Washington 
State Legislature eventually had to respond to, by enacting legislation 
to fund Safeco Field, it was one of many moments in a "miracle run" by 
the Mariners in September and October 1995 that changed public sentiment 
towards the team and towards public financing of a baseball-only stadium 
as a partial replacement for the Kingdome. During his career, Martínez 
was a Mariner fan favorite, playing his entire career with the team, and 
always being willing to sign autographs for fans. In October 2004, following 
his retirement, the part of South Atlantic Street in Seattle adjoining 
Safeco Field was renamed Edgar Martínez Drive South. At his retirement 
ceremony, a portrait "featuring his high stepping batting style" painted 
by artist Michele Rushworth was presented to him by the Mariners. The Mariners 
have not issued Martínez' #11 jersey to anyone since he retired. Under 
Mariners' team policy, he was not eligible to have his jersey formally 
retired until 2010, when he became eligible for the Baseball Hall of Fame 
for the first time. However, it is highly unlikely that any Mariner will 
ever wear that number again.[citation needed] Martínez was inducted into 
the Hispanic Heritage Baseball Museum Hall of Fame on September 9, 2003, 
in a pregame on field ceremony at Safeco Field. In 2004, Major League Baseball 
renamed the Outstanding Designated Hitter Award in Martínez's honor. A 
five-time winner of the award, he is one of five players to have MLB awards 
named for them. The others are: Cy Young for pitching, Hank Aaron for batting, 
Roberto Clemente for "sportsmanship, community involvement and the individual's 
contribution to his team", and Ted Williams for the All-Star Game MVP Award. 
He was inducted into the Seattle Mariners Hall of Fame on June 2, 2007.[5] 
In December 2007 former Mariners outfielder Shane Monahan gave an interview 
with ESPN.com in which he stated that amphetamines and steroids were both 
rampant in the team's clubhouse in the late '90s. Monahan said that just 
about every Seattle player other than former catcher Dan Wilson used amphetamines 
while he was in Seattle. Martínez, like former teammates Jamie Moyer and 
Raúl Ibañez, denied allegations of such use in the clubhouse. Martínez 
made this statement while visiting the Mariners in spring training: I don't 
know why [Monahan] said that, I was there for a long time, and I didn't 
see what he saw... What are you going to do? There has been a lot of this 
going on around baseball... But like I said, I was there for a long time 
and never saw any of that. —Edgar Martínez, The Seattle Times: March 15, 
2008. Martinez was first eligible to be elected into the baseball Hall 
of Fame in 2010. He received 36.2% of the vote. In subsequent years however 
Martinez has failed to see a significant uptick in support, peaking at 
43% in the 2015 balloting. Some sports writers feel that his batting numbers 
do not overcome the one-dimensional aspect of his career as a D.H.[6] For 
the 2013 season, the Mariners worked with Martinez, local chef Ethan Stowell 
and bartender Anu Apte to create Edgar's Cantina at Safeco Field.[7] Retired 
Yankee great Mariano Rivera, when asked whether there was anyone he was 
afraid to face, said that he was never afraid, but "I will put it like 
this: The only guy that I didn't want to face, when a tough situation comes, 
was Edgar Martínez. The reason is because I couldn't get him out. (laughs) 
I couldn't get him out. It didn't matter how I threw the ball. I couldn't 
get him out. Oh, my god, he had more than my number. He had my breakfast, 
lunch and dinner. He got everything from me."[8] Versus Rivera, Martínez 
was able to log a 0.625 batting average, with 10 hits during 16 appearances.[9] 
Hall of Fame pitcher Pedro Martínez also named Edgar Martínez as one of 
the toughest hitters he had to pitch against in his career because, Pedro 
said, he was very disciplined at the plate and "would foul off pitches 
that would wipe out anybody else."[10] Though born in New York, Martínez 
returned to his family's native Puerto Rico in 1965 when his parents divorced. 
He grew up in Dorado and graduated from American College in Puerto Rico 
(he speaks English with a mild Spanish accent as a result). Martínez taught 
himself how to speak English, and how to use computers.[11] A beloved figure 
in Seattle, he is now living in Bellevue, Washington, with his wife Holli 
and their three children: Alex, Tessa, and Jacqueline. He runs Branded 
Solutions by Edgar Martínez, a byproduct of his family's embroidery business, 
in Kirkland, Washington.[12] Martínez is one of the founders of Plaza Bank, 
founded in 2005 as Washington's first Hispanic bank.[13] He is the cousin 
of former outfielder/first baseman Carmelo Martínez. Edgar Martínez was 
diagnosed with strabismus, an eye condition, in 1999.[14] He overcame the 
condition through strenuous exercise and by avoiding some things such as 
watching movies.[citation needed] Martínez has been honored for countless 
hours, funds, resources and contributions that he and his wife Holli have 
made available to Seattle Children's Hospital, including the Edgar Martínez 
Endowment for Muscular Dystrophy Research, established by the Mariners 
in honor of his retirement, and the Children's Hospital Annual Wishing 
Well Night at Safeco Field. Martínez has also supported the Parent Project 
Muscular Dystrophy, Overlake Hospital, Make-A-Wish Foundation, Wishing 
Star Foundation, United Way, Esperanza, Page Ahead Children's Literacy 
Program, Big Brothers Big Sisters, Boys & Girls Clubs of America and Mariners 
Care. Because of his contributions, on June 20, 2007, Martínez was inducted 
into the World Sports Humanitarian Hall of Fame in Boise, Idaho. In December 
2001, he and his wife hosted "A Night of Hope" fundraising dinner and auction. 
The event raised $100,000 for Parent Project and created two research fellowships 
for Seattle-based scientists studying Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy at the 
University of Washington and the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center. 
