The Edinburgh Diamond Devils are a baseball club that was formed in Edinburgh, 
Scotland. Baseball has been played in the Edinburgh area since the 1950s 
when it was played at United States Air Force bases at Kirknewton, then 
in Midlothian, and East Fortune in East Lothian, both just a few miles 
from the city. The Edinburgh Diamond Devils baseball club was formed in 
1986 as the Edinburgh Royals. As one of the teams involved in the inaugural 
Scottish League, the Devils have enjoyed a long and rich history. League 
success came in 1991, two years after the 'Royals' became the 'Reivers' 
with the team claiming its first Scottish Championship. 1992 saw the team 
repeat as national champions, becoming the first team to do so in league 
history and saw the start of the clubs first youth team, the Blue Jays. 
1993 and 1994 were barren years for the team as Glasgow and Dundee emerged 
as national powers, however 1995 saw a significant change in team fortunes. 
Long-time General Manager Donald Brotchie retired from baseball and junior 
team head coach Nick Clark assumed the mantle of responsibility. A superb 
Reivers team was assembled which won the national title with an 11–1 record 
for the first time in three years. The team also won the Scottish Cup tournament. 
Double glory was secured when the Blue Jays won the first ever Scottish 
Junior League title with a 10–0 record. 1995 will forever be known as the 
year the organisation turned the corner and emerged as one of the biggest 
and best baseball clubs in Britain. 1996 saw the Reivers relinquish their 
title after a 6–6 season but 1997 and 1998 saw the team return to power 
with a back-to-back 11–1 seasons and another two titles. In 1999, as a 
result of the creation of a new Edinburgh rugby team called the Reivers, 
the club changed to the Edinburgh Diamond Devils and left the Scottish 
League to join the British Baseball League – Division 1. This was a first 
for a Scottish team. Hard work paid off with a successful first foray into 
this league with the Devils gaining promotion to the top-flight of British 
baseball, the BBF Premier Division. In addition, the team became a major 
supporter of the Scotland National Team and 15 Devils were selected for 
an international match with England staged at Meadowbank Stadium, Edinburgh. 
Although defeated 11–13, Team Scotland enjoyed a tremendous occasion with 
almost 1000 fans turning out to see the game. 1999 also saw the expansion 
of the teams youth programme to incorporate a four-team youth league within 
the city and a school development scheme called 'Pitch, Hit and Run' which 
provides baseball for children in 17 schools across the city. 2000 saw 
the Devils endure a tough first season of Premier League baseball but it 
ended with a glorious Team Scotland victory over England by a score of 
18–5 in the annual international. Perhaps the most exciting development 
was the team's qualification for the June 2001 C.E.B. (Confederation of 
European Baseball) Cup of Cups tournament in Prague, the first time ever 
that a Scottish team has entered a European competition. This will be the 
most significant boost for Scottish baseball in its history... something 
that the Edinburgh Diamond Devils baseball organisation will take pride 
in doing. In 2007 the Diamond Devils won the Scottish National League with 
one of the best records in the history of the league, 15–1. In 2010 the 
Diamond Devils split into two teams, the second being the Edinburgh Canons, 
which went on to win the Scottish National League in their inaugural season. 
The team also moved to a new field in the center of Edinburgh, near the 
Botanical Gardens. The two teams combined to make the Diamond Devils' first 
trip abroad to Europe in four years. They travelled to Norway and defeated 
the Kristiansand Suns 12–2 and Stavanger 17–3. In 2011 interest increase 
again with the Edinburgh Giants being added to the league. The Cannons 
won the league for the second year in a row. The second annual North Sea 
Cup was played in Edinburgh against the Kristiansand Suns. The Devils and 
Cannons both won with the Giants losing narrowly to the Suns on the final 
day. The Diamond Devils are the largest baseball club in the UK with three 
adult teams and two junior teams. They play their home games at Bobby Thomson 
