Edinburgh (i/ˈɛdɪnbərə/;[6] Scottish Gaelic: Dùn Èideann [ˈt̪uːn ˈɛːtʲɛn̪ˠ]) 
is the capital city of Scotland and one of its 32 local government council 
areas. Located in Lothian on the Firth of Forth's southern shore, it is 
Scotland's second most populous city and the seventh most populous in the 
United Kingdom. The 2014 official population estimates are 464,990 for 
the city of Edinburgh,[1] 492,680 for the local authority area,[2] and 
1,339,380 for the city region as of 2014[2][3] (Edinburgh lies at the heart 
of the proposed Edinburgh and South East Scotland city region). Recognised 
as the capital of Scotland since at least the 15th century, Edinburgh is 
home to the Scottish Parliament and the seat of the monarchy in Scotland. 
The city is also the annual venue of the General Assembly of the Church 
of Scotland and home to national institutions such as the National Museum 
of Scotland, the National Library of Scotland and the Scottish National 
Gallery. It is the largest financial centre in the UK after London.[7] 
Historically part of Midlothian, the city has long been a centre of education, 
particularly in the fields of medicine, Scots law, literature, the sciences 
and engineering. The University of Edinburgh, founded in 1582 and now one 
of four in the city, was placed 17th in the QS World University Rankings 
in 2013 and 2014.[8] The city is also famous for the Edinburgh International 
Festival and the Fringe, the latter being the world's largest annual international 
arts festival. The city's historical and cultural attractions have made 
it the United Kingdom's second most popular tourist destination after London, 
attracting over one million overseas visitors each year.[9] Historic sites 
in Edinburgh include Edinburgh Castle, Holyrood Palace, the churches of 
St. Giles, Greyfriars and the Canongate, and the extensive Georgian New 
Town, built in the 18th century. Edinburgh's Old Town and New Town together 
are listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site,[10] which has been managed 
by Edinburgh World Heritage since 1999. "Edin", the root of the city's 
name, is most likely of Brittonic Celtic origin, from the Cumbric language 
or a variation of it that would have been spoken by the earliest known 
people of the area, an Iron Age tribe known to the Romans as the Votadini, 
and latterly in sub-Roman history as the Gododdin. It appears to derive 
from the place name Eidyn mentioned in the Old Welsh epic poem Y Gododdin.[11][12][13] 
The poem names Din Eidyn as a hill fort (Din meaning "dun") in the territory 
of the Gododdin.[14] The change in nomenclature, from Din Eidyn to Edinburgh, 
reflects changes in the local language from Cumbric to Old English, the 
Germanic language of the Anglian kingdom of Bernicia that permeated the 
area from the mid-7th century and is regarded as the ancestor of modern 
Scots. The Celtic element din was dropped and replaced by the Old English 
burh.[15] The first documentary evidence of the medieval burgh is a royal 
charter, c.1124–1127, by King David I granting a toft in "burgo meo de 
Edenesburg" to the Priory of Dunfermline.[16] In modern Gaelic, the city 
is called Dùn Èideann (often rendered Dunedin by English-speakers). The 
earliest known human habitation in the Edinburgh area was at Cramond, where 
evidence was found of a Mesolithic camp site dated to c. 8500 BC.[17] Traces 
of later Bronze Age and Iron Age settlements have been found on Castle 
Rock, Arthur's Seat, Craiglockhart Hill and the Pentland Hills.[18] When 
the Romans arrived in Lothian at the end of the 1st century AD, they discovered 
a Celtic Britonnic tribe whose name they recorded as the Votadini.[19] 
At some point before the 7th century AD, the Gododdin, who were presumably 
descendants of the Votadini, built the hill fort of Din Eidyn or Etin. 
Although its location has not been identified, it seems likely they would 
have chosen a commanding position like the Castle Rock, Arthur's Seat, 
or Calton Hill.[20] In 638, the Gododdin stronghold was besieged by forces 
loyal to King Oswald of Northumbria, and around this time control of Lothian 
passed to the Angles. Their influence continued for the next three centuries 
until around 950, when, during the reign of Indulf, son of Constantine 
II, the "burh" (fortress), named in the 10th century Pictish Chronicle 
as oppidum Eden,[21] fell to the Scots. It thenceforth remained under their 
jurisdiction.[22] The royal burgh was founded by King David I in the early 
12th century on land belonging to the Crown, though the precise date is 
unknown.[23] By the middle of the 14th century, the French chronicler Jean 
Froissart was describing it as the capital of Scotland (c. 1365), and James 
III (1451–88) referred to it in the 15th century as "the principal burgh 
of our kingdom".[24] Despite the destruction caused by an English assault 
in 1544, the town slowly recovered,[25] and was at the centre of events 
in the 16th century Scottish Reformation[26] and 17th century Wars of the 
Covenant.[27] In 1603, King James VI of Scotland succeeded to the English 
throne, uniting the crowns of Scotland and England in a personal union 
known as the Union of the Crowns, though Scotland remained, in all other 
respects, a separate kingdom.[28] In 1638, King Charles I's attempt to 
introduce Anglican church forms in Scotland encountered stiff Presbyterian 
opposition culminating in the conflicts of the Wars of the Three Kingdoms.[29] 
Subsequent Scottish support for Charles Stuart's restoration to the throne 
of England resulted in Edinburgh's occupation by Oliver Cromwell's Commonwealth 
of England forces – the New Model Army – in 1650.[30] In the 17th century, 
Edinburgh's boundaries were still defined by the city's defensive town 
walls. As a result, the city's growing population was accommodated by increasing 
the height of the houses. Buildings of 11 storeys or more were common,[31] 
and have been described as forerunners of the modern-day skyscraper.[32] 
Most of these old structures were replaced by the predominantly Victorian 
buildings seen in today's Old Town. In 1706, the Parliaments of England 
and Scotland passed the Acts of Union, uniting the two kingdoms in the 
Kingdom of Great Britain.[33] As a consequence, the Parliament of Scotland 
merged with the Parliament of England to form the Parliament of Great Britain, 
which sat at Westminster in London. The Union was opposed by many Scots, 
resulting in riots in the city.[34] By the first half of the 18th century, 
despite rising prosperity evidenced by its growing importance as a banking 
centre, Edinburgh was described as one of Europe's most densely populated, 
overcrowded and unsanitary towns.[35][36] Visitors were struck by the fact 
that the various social classes shared the same urban space, even inhabiting 
the same tenement buildings; although here a form of social segregation 
did prevail, whereby shopkeepers and tradesmen tended to occupy the cheaper-to-rent 
cellars and garrets, while the more well-to-do professional classes occupied 
the more expensive middle storeys.[37] During the Jacobite rising of 1745, 
Edinburgh was briefly occupied by the Jacobite "Highland Army" before its 
march into England.[38] After its eventual defeat at Culloden, there followed 
a period of reprisals and pacification, largely directed at the rebellious 
clans.[39] In Edinburgh, the Town Council, keen to emulate London by initiating 
city improvements and expansion to the north of the castle,[40] reaffirmed 
its belief in the Union and loyalty to the Hanoverian monarch George III 
by its choice of names for the streets of the New Town: for example, Rose 
Street and Thistle Street; and for the royal family, George Street, Queen 
Street, Hanover Street, Frederick Street and Princes Street (in honour 
of George's two sons).[41] In the second half of the century, the city 
was at the heart of the Scottish Enlightenment,[42] when thinkers like 
David Hume, Adam Smith, James Hutton and Joseph Black were familiar figures 
in its streets. Edinburgh became a major intellectual centre, earning it 
the nickname "Athens of the North" because of its many neo-classical buildings 
and reputation for learning, recalling ancient Athens.[43] In the 18th 
century novel The Expedition of Humphry Clinker by Tobias Smollett one 
character describes Edinburgh as a "hotbed of genius".[44] Edinburgh was 
also a major centre for the Scottish book trade. The highly successful 
London bookseller Andrew Millar was apprenticed there to James McEuen.[45] 
From the 1770s onwards, the professional and business classes gradually 
deserted the Old Town in favour of the more elegant "one-family" residences 
of the New Town, a migration that changed the city's social character. 
According to the foremost historian of this development, "Unity of social 
feeling was one of the most valuable heritages of old Edinburgh, and its 
disappearance was widely and properly lamented."[46] Although Edinburgh's 
traditional industries of printing, brewing and distilling continued to 
grow in the 19th century, and were joined by new rubber works and engineering 
works, there was little industrialisation compared with other cities in 
Britain. By 1821, Edinburgh had been overtaken by Glasgow as Scotland's 
largest city.[47] The city centre between Princes Street and George Street 
became a major commercial and shopping district, a development partly stimulated 
by the arrival of railways in the 1840s. The Old Town became an increasingly 
dilapidated, overcrowded slum with high mortality rates.[48] Improvements 
carried out under Lord Provost William Chambers in the 1860s began the 
transformation of the area into the predominantly Victorian Old Town seen 
today.[49] More improvements followed in the early 20th century as a result 
of the work of Patrick Geddes,[50] but relative economic stagnation during 
the two world wars and beyond saw the Old Town deteriorate further before 
major slum clearance in the 1960s and 1970s began to reverse the process. 
University building developments which transformed the George Square and 
Potterrow areas proved highly controversial.[51] Since the 1990s a new 
"financial district", including a new Edinburgh International Conference 
Centre, has grown mainly on demolished railway property to the west of 
the castle, stretching into Fountainbridge, a run-down 19th-century industrial 
suburb which has undergone radical change since the 1980s with the demise 
of industrial and brewery premises. This ongoing development has enabled 
Edinburgh to maintain its place as the United Kingdom's second largest 
financial and administrative centre after London.[52] Financial services 
now account for a third of all commercial office space in the city.[53] 
The development of Edinburgh Park, a new business and technology park covering 
38 acres (15 ha), 4 mi (6 km) west of the city centre, has also contributed 
to the District Council's strategy for the city's major economic regeneration.[53] 
In 1998, the Scotland Act, which came into force the following year, established 
a devolved Scottish Parliament and Scottish Executive (renamed the Scottish 
Government since September 2007[54]). Both based in Edinburgh, they are 
responsible for governing Scotland while reserved matters such as defence, 
taxation and foreign affairs remain the responsibility of the Parliament 
of the United Kingdom in London.[55] Situated in Scotland's Central Belt, 
Edinburgh lies on the Firth of Forth's southern shore. The city centre 
is 2 1⁄2 miles (4.0 km) southwest of the shoreline of Leith and 26 miles 
(42 km) inland, as the crow flies, from the east coast of Scotland and 
the North Sea at Dunbar.[56] While the early burgh grew up near the prominent 
Castle Rock, the modern city is often said to be built on seven hills, 
namely Calton Hill, Corstorphine Hill, Craiglockhart Hill, Braid Hill, 
Blackford Hill, Arthur's Seat and the Castle Rock,[57] giving rise to allusions 
to the seven hills of Rome.[58] Occupying a narrow gap between the Firth 
of Forth to the north and the Pentland Hills and their outrunners to the 
south, the city sprawls over a landscape which is the product of early 
volcanic activity and later periods of intensive glaciation. [59] Igneous 
activity between 350 and 400 million years ago, coupled with faulting, 
led to the creation of tough basalt volcanic plugs, which predominate over 
much of the area.[59] One such example is the Castle Rock which forced 
the advancing icesheet to divide, sheltering the softer rock and forming 
a 1-mile-long (1.6 km) tail of material to the east, thus creating a distinctive 
crag and tail formation.[59] Glacial erosion on the north side of the crag 
gouged a deep valley later filled by the now drained Nor Loch. These features, 
along with another hollow on the rock's south side, formed an ideal natural 
strongpoint upon which Edinburgh Castle was built.[59] Similarly, Arthur's 
Seat is the remains of a volcano dating from the Carboniferous period, 
which was eroded by a glacier moving west to east during the ice age.[59] 
Erosive action such as plucking and abrasion exposed the rocky crags to 
the west before leaving a tail of deposited glacial material swept to the 
east.[60] This process formed the distinctive Salisbury Crags, a series 
of teschenite cliffs between Arthur's Seat and the location of the early 
burgh.[61] The residential areas of Marchmont and Bruntsfield are built 
along a series of drumlin ridges south of the city centre, which were deposited 
as the glacier receded.[59] Other prominent landforms such as Calton Hill 
and Corstorphine Hill are also products of glacial erosion.[59] The Braid 
Hills and Blackford Hill are a series of small summits to the city's south 
west that command expansive views looking northwards over the urban area 
to the Forth.[59] Edinburgh is drained by the river named the Water of 
Leith, which rises at the Colzium Springs in the Pentland Hills and runs 
for 29 kilometres (18 mi) through the south and west of the city, emptying 
into the Firth of Forth at Leith.[62] The nearest the river gets to the 
city centre is at Dean Village on the north-western edge of the New Town, 
where a deep gorge is spanned by Thomas Telford's Dean Bridge, built in 
1832 for the road to Queensferry.[62] The Water of Leith Walkway is a mixed 
use trail that follows the course of the river for 19.6 kilometres (12.2 mi) 
from Balerno to Leith.[63] Excepting the shoreline of the Firth of Forth, 
Edinburgh is encircled by a green belt, designated in 1957, which stretches 
from Dalmeny in the west to Prestongrange in the east.[64] With an average 
width of 3.2 kilometres (2 mi) the principal objectives of the green belt 
were to contain the outward expansion of the city and to prevent the agglomeration 
of urban areas.[64] Expansion affecting the green belt is strictly controlled 
but developments such as Edinburgh Airport and the Royal Highland Showground 
at Ingliston lie within the zone.[64] Similarly, suburbs such as Juniper 
Green and Balerno are situated on green belt land.[64] One feature of the 
Edinburgh green belt is the inclusion of parcels of land within the city 
which are designated green belt, even though they do not connect with the 
peripheral ring. Examples of these independent wedges of green belt include 
Holyrood Park and Corstorphine Hill.[64] Edinburgh comprises distinct areas 
that retain much of their original character as settlements in existence 
before they were absorbed into the sprawling city of the nineteenth century.[65] 
Many areas, such as Dalry contain residences that are multi-occupancy buildings 
known as tenements, although the more southern and western parts of the 
city have traditionally been more affluent with a greater number of detached 
and semi-detached villas.[66] The historic centre of Edinburgh is divided 
in two by the broad green swathe of Princes Street Gardens. To the south 
the view is dominated by Edinburgh Castle, built high on the castle rock, 
and the long sweep of the Old Town descending towards Holyrood Palace. 
To the north lie Princes Street and the New Town. The West End includes 
the financial district, with insurance and banking offices as well as the 
Edinburgh International Conference Centre. Edinburgh's Old and New Towns 
were listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1995 in recognition of the 
unique character of the Old Town with its medieval street layout and the 
planned Georgian New Town, including the adjoining Dean Village and Calton 
Hill areas. There are over 4,500 listed buildings within the city,[10] 
a higher proportion relative to area than any other city in the United 
Kingdom. The Old Town runs downhill and terminates at Holyrood Palace. 
Minor streets (called closes or wynds) lie on either side of the main spine 
forming a herringbone pattern.[67] The street has several fine public buildings 
such as the church of St Giles, the City Chambers and the Law Courts. Other 
places of historical interest nearby are Greyfriars Kirkyard and the Grassmarket. 
The street layout is typical of the old quarters of many northern European 
cities. The castle perches on top of a rocky crag (the remnant of an extinct 
volcano) and the Royal Mile runs down the crest of a ridge from it. Due 
to space restrictions imposed by the narrowness of this landform, the Old 
Town became home to some of the earliest "high rise" residential buildings. 
Multi-storey dwellings known as lands were the norm from the 16th century 
onwards with ten and eleven storeys being typical and one even reaching 
fourteen or fifteen storeys. [68] Numerous vaults below street level were 
inhabited to accommodate the influx of incomers, particularly Irish immigrants, 
during the Industrial Revolution. The New Town was an 18th-century solution 
to the problem of an increasingly crowded city which had been confined 
to the ridge sloping down from the castle. In 1766 a competition to design 
a "New Town" was won by James Craig, a 27-year-old architect.[69] The plan 
was a rigid, ordered grid, which fitted in well with Enlightenment ideas 
of rationality. The principal street is George Street, running along the 
natural ridge to the north of what became known as the "Old Town". To either 
side of it are two other main streets: Princes Street and Queen Street. 
Princes Street has become Edinburgh's main shopping street and now has 
few of its original Georgian buildings. The three main streets are connected 
by a series of streets running perpendicular to them. The east and west 
ends of George Street are terminated by St Andrew Square and Charlotte 
Square respectively. The latter, designed by Robert Adam, influenced the 
architectural style of the New Town into the early 19th century.[70] Bute 
House, the official residence of the First Minister of Scotland, is on 
the north side of Charlotte Square.[71] The hollow between the Old and 
New Towns was formerly the Nor Loch, which was created for the town's defence 
but came to be used by the inhabitants for dumping their sewage. It was 
drained by the 1820s as part of the city's northward expansion. Craig's 
original plan included an ornamental canal on the site of the loch,[41] 
but this idea was abandoned.[72] Soil excavated while laying the foundations 
of buildings in the New Town was dumped on the site of the loch to create 
the slope connecting the Old and New Towns known as The Mound. In the middle 
of the 19th century the National Gallery of Scotland and Royal Scottish 
Academy Building were built on The Mound, and tunnels for the railway line 
between Haymarket and Waverley stations were driven through it. The Southside 
is a popular residential part of the city, which includes the districts 
of St Leonards, Marchmont, Newington, Sciennes, the Grange and Blackford. 
The Southside is broadly analogous to the area covered formerly by the 
Burgh Muir, and grew in popularity as a residential area after the opening 
of the South Bridge in the 1780s. The Southside is particularly popular 
with families (many state and private schools are here), young professionals 
and students (the central University of Edinburgh campus is based around 
George Square just north of Marchmont and the Meadows), and Napier University 
(with major campuses around Merchiston and Morningside). The area is also 
well provided with hotel and "bed and breakfast" accommodation for visiting 
festival-goers. These districts often feature in works of fiction. For 
example, Church Hill in Morningside, was the home of Muriel Spark's Miss 
Jean Brodie, [73] and Ian Rankin's Inspector Rebus lives in Marchmont and 
works in St Leonards. [74] Leith was historically the port of Edinburgh, 
an arrangement of unknown date that was reconfirmed by the royal charter 
Robert the Bruce granted to the city in 1329.[75] The port developed a 
separate identity from Edinburgh, which to some extent it still retains, 
and it was a matter of great resentment when the two burghs merged in 1920 
into the City of Edinburgh.[76] Even today the parliamentary seat is known 
as "Edinburgh North and Leith". The loss of traditional industries and 
commerce (the last shipyard closed in 1983) resulted in economic decline.[77] 
The Edinburgh Waterfront development has transformed old dockland areas 
from Leith to Granton into residential areas with shopping and leisure 
facilities and helped rejuvenate the area. With the redevelopment, Edinburgh 
has gained the business of cruise liner companies which now provide cruises 
to Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Germany, and the Netherlands. The coastal suburb 
of Portobello is characterised by Georgian villas, Victorian tenements, 
a popular beach and promenade and cafes, bars, restaurants and independent 
shops. There are rowing and sailing clubs and a restored Victorian swimming 
pool, including Turkish baths. The urban area of Edinburgh is almost entirely 
within the City of Edinburgh Council boundary, merging with Musselburgh 
in East Lothian. Towns within easy reach of the city boundary include Dalkeith, 
Bonnyrigg, Loanhead, Newtongrange, Prestonpans, Tranent, Penicuik, Haddington, 
Livingston, Broxburn and Dunfermline. Edinburgh lies at the heart of the 
Edinburgh & South East Scotland City region with a population in 2014 of 
1,339,380.[2][3] Like most of Scotland, Edinburgh has a temperate, maritime 
climate which is relatively mild despite its northerly latitude.[78] Winter 
daytime temperatures rarely fall below freezing and are milder than places 
such as Moscow and Newfoundland which lie at similar latitudes.[78] Summer 
temperatures are normally moderate, rarely exceeding 22 °C (72 °F).[78] 
The highest temperature ever recorded in the city was 31.4 °C (88.5 °F) 
on 4 August 1975[78] at Turnhouse Airport. The lowest temperature recorded 
in recent years was −14.6 °C (5.7 °F) during December 2010 at Gogarbank.[79] 
The city's proximity to the sea mitigates any large variations in temperature 
or extremes of climate. Given Edinburgh's position between the coast and 
hills, it is renowned as "the windy city", with the prevailing wind direction 
coming from the south west, which is often associated with warm, unstable 
air from the North Atlantic Current that can give rise to rainfall – although 
considerably less than cities to the west, such as Glasgow.[78] Rainfall 
is distributed fairly evenly throughout the year.[78] Winds from an easterly 
direction are usually drier but considerably colder, and may be accompanied 
by haar, a persistent coastal fog. Vigorous Atlantic depressions, known 
as European windstorms, can affect the city between October and May.[78] 
There is also a weather station in Gogarbank on the city's outskirts.[80] 
This slightly inland station has a slightly wider temperature span between 
seasons, is cloudier and somewhat wetter, but differences are minor. The 
most recent official population estimates are 464,990 for the city of Edinburgh[1] 
and 492,680 for the local authority area.[2] Edinburgh lies at the heart 
of the Edinburgh & South East Scotland City region with a population in 
2014 of 1,339,380.[2][3] This makes Edinburgh Scotland's second largest 
city after Glasgow and the seventh largest in Britain. Edinburgh has a 
high proportion of young adults, with 19.5% of the population in their 
20s (exceeded only by Aberdeen) and 15.2% in their 30s which is the highest 
in Scotland. The proportion of Edinburgh's population born in the UK fell 
from 92% to 84% between 2001 and 2011, while the proportion born in Scotland 
fell from 78% to 70%. Of those Edinburgh residents born in the UK, 335,000 
or 83% were born in Scotland, with 58,000 or 14% being born in England.[85] 
The proportion of people born outside the UK was 15.9% comparing with 8% 
in 2001. Countries accounting for the largest number of Edinburgh citizens 
born overseas are: Poland (13,000), Republic of Ireland (8,603), China 
(8,076), India (6,470), Pakistan (5,858), United States (3,700), Germany 
(3,500), Australia (2,100), France (2,000) Spain (2,000), South Africa 
(1,800) and Canada (1,800). 47% of the non-UK born population in Edinburgh 
is of European origin, which is amongst the highest for any UK city.[85] 
Some 13,000 people or 2.7% of the city's population are Polish. 39,500 
people or 8.2% of Edinburgh's population class themselves as Non-White 
which is an increase from 4% in 2001. Of the Non-White population, the 
largest group by far are Asian, totalling 26,264 people. Within the Asian 
population, the Chinese are now the largest sub-group, with 8,076 people, 
amounting to about 1.7% of the city's total population. The city's Indian 
population amounts to 6,470 (1.4% of the total population), while there 
are some 5,858 Pakistanis (1.2% of the total population). Although they 
account for only 1,277 people or 0.3% of the city's population, Edinburgh 
has the highest number and proportion of Bangladeshis in Scotland. Over 
7,000 people were born in African countries (1.6% of the total population) 
and nearly 7,000 in the Americas. With the notable exception of Inner London, 
Edinburgh has a higher number of people born in the United States (over 
3,700) than any other city in the UK.[85] A census by the Edinburgh presbytery 
in 1592 recorded a population of 8,003 adults spread equally north and 
south of the High Street which runs along the spine of the ridge sloping 
down from the Castle.[87] In the 18th and 19th centuries, the population 
expanded rapidly, rising from 49,000 in 1751 to 136,000 in 1831, primarily 
due to migration from rural areas.[88] As the population grew, problems 
of overcrowding in the Old Town, particularly in the cramped tenements 
that lined the present day Royal Mile and the Cowgate, were exacerbated.[88] 
Poor sanitary arrangements resulted in a high incidence of disease,[88] 
with outbreaks of cholera occurring in 1832, 1848 and 1866.[89] The construction 
of the New Town from 1767 onwards witnessed the migration of the professional 
and business classes from the difficult living conditions in the Old Town 
to the lower density, higher quality surroundings taking shape on land 
to the north. [90] Expansion southwards from the Old Town saw more tenements 
being built in the 19th century, giving rise to Victorian suburbs such 
as Dalry, Newington, Marchmont and Bruntsfield.[90] Early 20th century 
population growth coincided with lower-density suburban development. As 
the city expanded to the south and west, detached and semi-detached villas 
with large gardens replaced tenements as the predominant building style. 
Nonetheless, the 2001 census revealed that over 55% of Edinburgh's population 
were still living in tenements or blocks of flats, a figure in line with 
other Scottish cities, but much higher than other British cities, and even 
central London.[91] From the early to mid 20th century the growth in population, 
together with slum clearance in the Old Town and other areas, such as Dumbiedykes, 
Leith, and Fountainbridge, led to the creation of new estates such as Stenhouse 
and Saughton, Craigmillar and Niddrie, Pilton and Muirhouse, Piershill, 
and Sighthill.[92] The Church of Scotland claims the largest membership 
of any single religious denomination in Edinburgh. In 2010 there were 83 
congregations in the Presbytery of Edinburgh.[93] Its most prominent church 
is St Giles on the Royal Mile, first dedicated in 1243 but believed to 
date from before the 12th century.[94] Saint Giles is historically the 
patron saint of Edinburgh.[95] St Cuthbert's, situated at the west end 
of Princes Street Gardens in the shadow of Edinburgh Castle and St Giles' 
can lay claim to being the oldest Christian sites in the city,[96] though 
the present St Cuthbert's, designed by Hippolyte Blanc, was dedicated in 
1894.[97] Other Church of Scotland churches include Greyfriars Kirk, the 
Canongate Kirk, St Andrew's and St George's West Church and the Barclay 
Church. The Church of Scotland Offices are in Edinburgh,[98] as is the 
Assembly Hall where the annual General Assembly is held.[99] The Roman 
Catholic Archdiocese of St Andrews and Edinburgh has 27 parishes across 
the city.[100] The Archbishop of the Archdiocese of St Andrew's and Edinburgh 
has his official residence in Greenhill,[101] and the diocesan offices 
are in nearby Marchmont.[102] The Diocese of Edinburgh of the Scottish 
Episcopal Church has over 50 churches, half of them in the city.[103] Its 
centre is the late 19th century Gothic style St Mary's Cathedral in the 
West End's Palmerston Place.[104] There are several independent churches 
in the city, both Catholic and Protestant, including Charlotte Chapel, 
Carrubbers Christian Centre, Morningside Baptist Church, Bellevue Chapel 
and Sacred Heart.[105] There are also churches belonging to Quakers, Christadelphians,[106] 
Seventh-day Adventists, Church of Christ, Scientist and The Church of Jesus 
Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). Edinburgh Central Mosque – Edinburgh's 
main mosque and Islamic Centre – is in Potterrow, on the city's Southside, 
near Bristo Square. Construction was largely financed by a gift from King 
Fahd of Saudi Arabia[107] and was completed in 1998. There are other mosques 
in Annandale Street Lane, off Leith Walk, and in Queensferry Road, Blackhall 
as well as other Islamic centres across the city.[108] There is also an 
active presence of the Ahmadiyya Muslim community.[109] The first recorded 
presence of a Jewish community in Edinburgh dates back to the late 18th 
century.[110] Edinburgh's Orthodox synagogue, opened in 1932, is in Salisbury 
Road and can accommodate a congregation of 2000. A Liberal Jewish congregation 
also meets in the city. There are a Sikh gurdwara and a Hindu mandir, both 
in Leith, and a Brahma Kumaris centre[111] in the Polwarth area. The Edinburgh 
Buddhist Centre, run by the Triratna Buddhist Community, formerly situated 
in Melville Terrace, now runs sessions at the Healthy Life Centre, Bread 
Street.[112] Other Buddhist traditions are represented by groups which 
meet in the capital: the Community of Interbeing (followers of Thich Nhat 
Hanh), Rigpa, Samye Dzong, Theravadin, Pure Land and Shambala. There is 
a Sōtō Zen Priory in Portobello[113] and a Theravadin Thai Buddhist Monastery 
in Slateford Road.[114] Edinburgh is home to an active Bahá'í Community,[115] 
and a Theosophical Society meets in Great King Street.[116] Edinburgh has 
an active Inter-Faith Association.[117] Edinburgh has the strongest economy 
of any city in the United Kingdom outside London and the highest percentage 
of professionals in the UK with 43% of the population holding a degree-level 
or professional qualification.[118] According to the Centre for International 
Competitiveness, it is the most competitive large city in the United Kingdom.[119] 
It also has the highest gross value added per employee of any city in the 
UK outside London, measuring £57,594 in 2010.[120] It was named European 
Best Large City of the Future for Foreign Direct Investment and Best Large 
City for Foreign Direct Investment Strategy in the Financial Times fDi 
magazine awards 2012/13. In the 19th century, Edinburgh's economy was known 
for banking, publishing and brewing. Today, its economy is based mainly 
on financial services, scientific research, higher education, and tourism.[121] 
In March 2010, unemployment in Edinburgh was comparatively low at 3.6%, 
and it remains consistently below the Scottish average of 4.5%.[122] Edinburgh 
is the 2nd most visited city by foreign visitors in the UK after London. 
Banking has been a mainstay of the Edinburgh economy for over 300 years, 
since the Bank of Scotland (now part of the Lloyds Banking Group) was established 
by an act of the Scottish Parliament in 1695. Today, the financial services 
industry, with its particularly strong insurance and investment sectors, 
and underpinned by Edinburgh-based firms such as Scottish Widows and Standard 
Life, accounts for the city being the UK's second financial centre after 
London and Europe's fourth in terms of equity assets.[123] The Royal Bank 
of Scotland opened new global headquarters at Gogarburn in the west of 
the city in October 2005, and Edinburgh is home to the headquarters of 
Bank of Scotland, Sainsbury's Bank,[124] Tesco Bank,[125] TSB Bank and 
Virgin Money.[126] Tourism is also an important element in the city's economy. 
As a World Heritage Site, tourists visit historical sites such as Edinburgh 
Castle, the Palace of Holyroodhouse and the Old and New Towns. Their numbers 
are augmented in August each year during the Edinburgh Festivals, which 
attracts 4.4 million visitors,[122] and generates over £100m for the local 
economy.[127] As the centre of Scotland's government and legal system, 
the public sector plays a central role in Edinburgh's economy. Many departments 
of the Scottish Government are in the city. Other major employers include 
NHS Scotland and local government administration.[121] The city hosts the 
annual Edinburgh International Festival, which is one of many events that 
run between the end of July and early September each year. The best known 
of these events are the Edinburgh Festival Fringe, the Edinburgh International 
Festival, the Edinburgh Military Tattoo and the Edinburgh International 
Book Festival.[128] The longest established of these festivals is the Edinburgh 
International Festival, which was first held in 1947[129] and consists 
mainly of a programme of high-profile theatre productions and classical 
music performances, featuring international directors, conductors, theatre 
companies and orchestras.[130] This has since been overtaken both in size 
and popularity by the Edinburgh Fringe which began as a programme of marginal 
acts alongside the "official" Festival and has become the world's largest 
performing arts festival. In 2006, 1867 different shows were staged in 
261 venues across the city.[131] Comedy has become one of the mainstays 
of the Fringe, with numerous well-known comedians getting their first 'break' 
here, often by being chosen to receive the Edinburgh Comedy Award.[132] 
In 2008, the largest comedy venues "on the Fringe" launched the Edinburgh 
Comedy Festival as a festival within a festival. Other festivals include 
the Edinburgh Mountain Film Festival which takes place in February, Edinburgh 
Art Festival, Edinburgh International Film Festival, which takes place 
in June,[133] the Edinburgh Gaelic Festival, which takes place in November,[134] 
the Edinburgh Jazz and Blues Festival, and the Edinburgh International 
Book Festival. The Edge Festival (formerly known as T on the Fringe), a 
popular music offshoot of the Fringe, began in 2000, replacing the smaller 
Flux and Planet Pop series of shows.[135] The Edinburgh Military Tattoo, 
one of the centrepieces of the "official" Festival, occupies the Castle 
Esplanade every night, with massed pipers and military bands drawn from 
around the world. Performances end with a short fireworks display. As well 
as the various summer festivals, the Edinburgh International Science Festival 
is held annually in April and is one of the largest of its kind in Europe.[136] 
The annual Edinburgh Hogmanay celebration was originally an informal street 
party focused on the Tron Kirk in the Old Town's High Street. Since 1993, 
it has been officially organised with the focus moved to Princes Street. 
In 1996, over 300,000 people attended, leading to ticketing of the main 
street party in later years up to a limit of 100,000 tickets.[137] Hogmanay 
now covers four days of processions, concerts and fireworks, with the street 
party beginning on Hogmanay. Alternative tickets are available for entrance 
into the Princes Street Gardens concert and Céilidh, where well-known artists 
perform and ticket holders can participate in traditional Scottish céilidh 
dancing. The event attracts thousands of people from all over the world.[137] 
On the night of 30 April the Beltane Fire Festival takes place on Calton 
Hill, involving a procession followed by scenes inspired by pagan old spring 
fertility celebrations.[138] At the beginning of October each year the 
Dussehra Hindu Festival is also held on Calton Hill.[139] Outside the Festival 
season, Edinburgh supports several theatres and production companies. The 
Royal Lyceum Theatre has its own company, while the King's Theatre, Edinburgh 
Festival Theatre and Edinburgh Playhouse stage large touring shows. The 
Traverse Theatre presents a more contemporary repertoire. Amateur theatre 
companies productions are staged at the Bedlam Theatre, Church Hill Theatre 
and King's Theatre among others.[140] The Usher Hall is Edinburgh's premier 
venue for classical music, as well as occasional popular music concerts.[141] 
It was the venue for the Eurovision Song Contest 1972. Other halls staging 
music and theatre include The Hub, the Assembly Rooms and the Queen's Hall. 
The Scottish Chamber Orchestra is based in Edinburgh.[142] Edinburgh has 
two repertory cinemas, the Edinburgh Filmhouse and The Cameo, as well as 
the independent Dominion Cinema and a range of multiplexes.[143] Edinburgh 
has a healthy popular music scene. Occasionally large concerts are staged 
at Murrayfield and Meadowbank, while mid-sized events take place at smaller 
venues such as the Corn Exchange, the Liquid Rooms and the Bongo Club. 
In 2010, PRS for Music listed Edinburgh among the UK's top ten 'most musical' 
cities.[144] Several city pubs are well known for their live performances 
of folk music. They include 'Sandy Bell's' in Forrest Road, 'The Captain's 
Bar' in South College Street, and 'Whistlebinkies' in Niddry Street. Edinburgh 
is home to a flourishing group of contemporary composers such as Nigel 
Osborne, Peter Nelson, Lyell Cresswell, Hafliði Hallgrímsson, Edward Harper, 
Robert Crawford, Robert Dow and John McLeod. McLeod's music is heard regularly 
on BBC Radio 3 and throughout the UK.[145] Rockstar North, formerly DMA 
Design, known for creating the Grand Theft Auto series, is based in Edinburgh.[146] 
The Edinburgh Evening News is based in Edinburgh and published every day 
except Sunday. Johnston Press owns the title and The Scotsman; their corporate 
headquarters are in Edinburgh and their national newspaper is the only 
one published in the city. The Herald newspaper, published in Glasgow, 
also covers Edinburgh.[147] The city has two commercial radio stations: 
Forth 1, a station which broadcasts mainstream chart music, and Forth 2 
on medium wave which plays classic hits.[148] Capital Radio Scotland and 
Eklipse Sports Radio also have transmitters covering Edinburgh. Along with 
the UK national radio stations, Radio Scotland and the Gaelic language 
service BBC Radio nan Gàidheal are also broadcast. DAB digital radio is 
broadcast over two local multiplexes. BFBS Radio broadcasts from studios 
on the base at Dreghorn Barracks across the city on 98.5FM as part of its 
UK Bases network STV Edinburgh, a local TV channel for the city, launched 
on 12 January 2015.[149] Television, along with most radio services, is 
broadcast to the city from the Craigkelly transmitting station situated 
in Fife on the opposite side of the Firth of Forth.[150] Edinburgh has 
many museums and libraries. These include the National Museum of Scotland, 
the National Library of Scotland, National War Museum, the Museum of Edinburgh, 
Surgeons' Hall Museum, the Grand Lodge of Scotland Museum and Library, 
the Museum of Childhood,[151][152] and Our Dynamic Earth. Edinburgh Zoo, 
covering 82 acres (33 ha) on Corstorphine Hill, is the second most popular 
paid tourist attraction in Scotland,[153] and currently home to two giant 
pandas, Tian Tian and Yang Guang, on loan from the People's Republic of 
China. Edinburgh is also home to The Royal Yacht Britannia, decommissioned 
in 1997 and now a five-star visitor attraction and evening events venue 
permanently berthed at Ocean Terminal. Edinburgh contains Scotland's five 
National Galleries of Art as well as numerous smaller art galleries.[154] 
The national collection is housed in the National Gallery of Scotland, 
located on the Mound, now linked to the Royal Scottish Academy which holds 
regular major exhibitions of paintings. Contemporary collections are shown 
in the Scottish National Gallery of Modern Art which occupies a split site 
at Belford. The Scottish National Portrait Gallery in Queen Street focuses 
on portraits and photography. The council-owned City Art Centre in Market 
Street mounts regular art exhibitions. Across the road, The Fruitmarket 
Gallery offers world class exhibitions of contemporary art, featuring work 
by British and international artists with both emerging and established 
international reputations.[155] There are many small private galleries, 
including the Ingleby Gallery. This provides a varied programme including 
shows by Callum Innes, Peter Liversidge, Ellsworth Kelly, Richard Forster, 
and Sean Scully.[156] The city hosts several of Scotland's galleries and 
organisations dedicated to contemporary visual art. Significant strands 
of this infrastructure include: The Scottish Arts Council, Edinburgh College 
of Art, Talbot Rice Gallery (University of Edinburgh) and the Edinburgh 
Annuale. The locale around Princes Street is the main shopping area in 
the city centre, with souvenir shops, chain stores such as Boots the Chemist, 
H&M and Jenners.[157] George Street, north of Princes Street, is the preferred 
location for some upmarket shops and independent stores.[157] The St. James 
Centre at the east end of Princes Street hosts national chains including 
a large John Lewis store.[158] Multrees Walk, adjacent to the St. James 
Centre, is a recent addition to the central shopping district, dominated 
by the presence of Harvey Nichols. Shops here include Louis Vuitton, Mulberry 
and Calvin Klein.[157] Edinburgh also has substantial retail parks outside 
the city centre. These include The Gyle Shopping Centre and Hermiston Gait 
in the west of the city, Cameron Toll Shopping Centre, Straiton Retail 
Park and Fort Kinnaird in the south and east, and Ocean Terminal in the 
north on the Leith waterfront.[159] Following local government reorganisation 
in 1996, Edinburgh constitutes one of the 32 council areas of Scotland.[160] 
Like all other local authorities of Scotland, the council has powers over 
most matters of local administration such as housing, planning, local transport, 
parks, economic development and regeneration.[161] The council comprises 
58 elected councillors, returned from 17 multi-member electoral wards in 
the city.[162] Following the 2007 Scottish Local Elections the incumbent 
Labour Party lost majority control of the council after 23 years to a Liberal 
Democrat/SNP coalition.[163] The city's coat of arms was registered by 
the Lord Lyon King of Arms in 1732.[164] Edinburgh is represented in the 
Scottish Parliament. For electoral purposes, the city is divided into six 
of the nine constituencies in the Lothian electoral region.[165] Each constituency 
elects one Member of the Scottish Parliament (MSP) by the first past the 
post system of election, and the region elects seven additional MSPs to 
produce a result based on a form of proportional representation.[165] At 
the Scottish Parliament, the city is represented by three Scottish National 
constituency MSP's based in the Edinburgh Eastern, Edinburgh Northern and 
Leith and Edinburgh Pentlands constituencies, with a Liberal Democrat MSP 
representing Edinburgh Western and a Labour MSP representing the Edinburgh 
Southern constituency. Conservative leader Ruth Davidson currently represents 
the Edinburgh Central constituency. Edinburgh is also represented in the 
British House of Commons by five Members of Parliament. The city is divided 
into Edinburgh North and Leith, Edinburgh East, Edinburgh South, Edinburgh 
South West, and Edinburgh West,[166] each constituency electing one member 
by the first past the post system. Edinburgh is currently represented by 
three MP's affiliated with the Scottish National Party, one Independent 
MP in Edinburgh West (elected as SNP) and one Labour MP in Edinburgh South: 
Scottish Labour's only Westminster constituency. Edinburgh Airport is Scotland's 
busiest and biggest airport and the principal international gateway to 
the capital, handling around 11 million passengers in 2015.[167] In anticipation 
of rising passenger numbers, the airport operator BAA outlined a draft 
masterplan in 2011 to provide for the expansion of the airfield and the 
terminal building. The airport has since been sold, in June 2012, to Global 
Infrastructure Partners (GIP). The possibility of building a second runway 
to cope with an increased number of aircraft movements has also been mooted.[168] 
Travel in Edinburgh is undertaken predominantly by bus. Lothian Buses operate 
the majority of city bus services within the city and to surrounding suburbs, 
with the most routes running via Princes Street. Services further afield 
operate from the Edinburgh Bus Station off St Andrew Square and Waterloo 
Place and are operated mainly by Stagecoach, Scottish Citylink, National 
Express Coaches, First Scotland East & Perryman's Buses. Lothian Buses, 
as the successor company to the Edinburgh Corporation Transport Department, 
also operates all of the city's branded public tour buses, night bus service 
and airport bus link. [169] In 2010, Lothian Buses recorded 109 million 
passenger journeys – a 1.9% rise on the previous year.[170] Edinburgh Waverley 
Station is the second-busiest railway station in Scotland, with only Glasgow 
Central handling more passengers. On the evidence of passenger entries 
and exits between April 2010 and March 2011, Edinburgh Waverley is the 
fifth-busiest station outside London; it is also the UK's second biggest 
station in terms of the number of platforms.[171] Waverley is the terminus 
for most trains arriving from London King's Cross and the departure point 
for many rail services within Scotland operated by Abellio ScotRail. To 
the west of the city centre lies Haymarket Station which is an important 
commuter stop. Opened in 2003, Edinburgh Park station serves the Gyle business 
park in the west of the city and the nearby Gogarburn headquarters of the 
Royal Bank of Scotland. The Edinburgh Crossrail route connects Edinburgh 
Park with Haymarket, Edinburgh Waverley and the suburban stations of Brunstane 
and Newcraighall in the east of the city.[172] There are also commuter 
lines to South Gyle and Dalmeny, the latter serving South Queensferry by 
the Forth Bridges, and to Wester Hailes and Curriehill in the south west 
of the city. To tackle traffic congestion, Edinburgh is now served by six 
park and ride sites on the periphery of the city at Sheriffhall (in Midlothian), 
Ingliston, Riccarton, Inverkeithing (in Fife), Newcraighall and Straiton 
(in Midlothian). A referendum of Edinburgh residents in February 2005 rejected 
a proposal to introduce congestion charging in the city. [173] Edinburgh 
Trams became operational on 31 May 2014. The city had been without a tram 
system since Edinburgh Corporation Tramways ceased on 16 November 1956.[174] 
Following parliamentary approval in 2007, construction began in early 2008. 
The first stage of the project was expected to be completed by July 2011[175] 
but, following delays caused by extra utility work and a long-running contractual 
dispute between the Council and the main contractor, Bilfinger SE, the 
project was rescheduled.[176][177][178] The cost of the project rose from 
the original projection of £545 million to £750 million in mid-2011[179] 
and some suggest it could eventually exceed £1 billion.[180] The completed 
line is 8.7 miles (14.0 km) in length, running from Edinburgh Airport, 
west of the city, to its current terminus at York Place in the city centre's 
East End. It was originally planned to continue down Leith Walk to Ocean 
Terminal and where it would terminate at Newhaven. Should the original 
plan be taken to completion, trams will also run from Haymarket through 
Ravelston and Craigleith to Granton Square on the Waterfront Edinburgh.[181] 
Long-term proposals envisage a line running west from the airport to Ratho 
and Newbridge and another connecting Granton Square to Newhaven via Lower 
Granton Road, thus completing the Line 1 (North Edinburgh) loop.[182] A 
further line serving the south of the city has also been suggested. Transport 
for Edinburgh released a statement on 7 July 2014 that average weekly tram 
passengers are currently in excess of 90,000 after the first week of service 
saw 130,000 journeys taken. There are four universities in Edinburgh (including 
Queen Margaret University which lies just outwith the city boundary) with 
students making up around one-fifth of the population.[183] Established 
by Royal Charter in 1583, the University of Edinburgh is one of Scotland's 
ancient universities and is the fourth oldest in the country after St Andrews, 
Glasgow and Aberdeen.[184] Originally centred on Old College the university 
expanded to premises on The Mound, the Royal Mile and George Square.[184] 
Today, the King's Buildings in the south of the city contain most of the 
schools within the College of Science and Engineering. In 2002, the medical 
school moved to purpose built accommodation adjacent to the new Edinburgh 
Royal Infirmary at Little France. The University placed 17th in the QS 
World University Rankings for 2013.[185] Heriot-Watt University and Napier 
Technical College were established in the 1960s.[184] Heriot-Watt began 
as the world's first Mechanics' Institute, tracing its origins to 1821 
when it opened as a school for the technical education of the working classes.[186] 
The former Napier College was renamed Napier Polytechnic in 1986 and gained 
university status in 1992.[187] Edinburgh Napier University has campuses 
in the south and west of the city, including the former Merchiston Tower 
and Craiglockhart Hydropathic.[187] It is home to the Screen Academy Scotland. 
Queen Margaret University was located in Edinburgh before it moved to a 
new campus near Musselburgh in 2008. Until 2012 further education colleges 
in the city included Jewel and Esk College (incorporating Leith Nautical 
College founded in 1903), Telford College, opened in 1968, and Stevenson 
College, opened in 1970. These have now been amalgamated to form Edinburgh 
College. The Scottish Agricultural College also has a campus in south Edinburgh. 
Other institutions include the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh and 
the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh which were established by 
Royal Charter in 1506 and 1681 respectively. The Trustees Drawing Academy 
of Edinburgh, founded in 1760, became the Edinburgh College of Art in 1907.[188] 
There are 18 nursery, 94 primary and 23 secondary schools administered 
by the City of Edinburgh Council.[189] Edinburgh is home to The Royal High 
School, one of the oldest schools in the country and the world. The city 
also has several independent, fee-paying schools including Edinburgh Academy, 
Fettes College, George Heriot's School, George Watson's College, Merchiston 
Castle School, Stewart's Melville College and The Mary Erskine School. 
In 2009, the proportion of pupils attending independent schools was 24.2%, 
far above the Scottish national average of just over 7% and higher than 
in any other region of Scotland.[190] In August 2013, Edinburgh City Council 
opened the city's first stand-alone Gaelic primary school, Bun-sgoil Taobh 
na Pàirce.[191] The main NHS Lothian hospitals serving the Edinburgh area 
are the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, which includes the University of 
Edinburgh Medical School, and the Western General Hospital,[192] which 
has a large cancer treatment centre and nurse-led Minor Injuries Clinic.[193] 
The Royal Edinburgh Hospital in Morningside specialises in mental health. 
The Royal Hospital for Sick Children, popularly referred to as 'the Sick 
Kids', is a specialist paediatrics hospital. There are two private hospitals: 
Murrayfield Hospital in the west of the city and Shawfield Hospital in 
the south. Both are owned by Spire Healthcare.[192] Edinburgh has three 
football clubs that play in the Scottish Professional Football League (SPFL): 
Heart of Midlothian, founded in 1874, Hibernian, founded in 1875 and Edinburgh 
City, founded in 1966. Heart of Midlothian and Hibernian are known locally 
as "Hearts" and "Hibs" respectively, the former plays in the Scottish Premiership 
and the latter in the Scottish Championship.[194] They are the oldest city 
rivals in Scotland and the Edinburgh derby is one of the oldest derby matches 
in world football. Both clubs have won the Scottish league championship 
four times. Hearts have won the Scottish Cup eight times and the Scottish 
League Cup four times. Hibs have won the Scottish Cup and the Scottish 
League Cup three times each. Edinburgh City were promoted to the SPFL Scottish 
League Two in the 2015–16 season after defeating East Stirlingshire, to 
become the first club to win promotion to the Scottish Professional Football 
League via the pyramid system. Edinburgh was also home to three other former 
Scottish Football League clubs: Leith Athletic, Meadowbank Thistle and 
St Bernard's. Meadowbank Thistle played at Meadowbank Stadium until 1995, 
when the club moved to Livingston and became Livingston F.C. The Scottish 
national team has very occasionally played at Easter Road and Tynecastle, 
although its normal home stadium is Hampden Park in Glasgow. St Bernard's' 
New Logie Green was used to host the 1896 Scottish Cup Final, the only 
time the match has been played outside Glasgow.[195] The city also plays 
host to Lowland Football League clubs Edinburgh University and Spartans 
as well as junior club Edinburgh United and East of Scotland League clubs 
Civil Service Strollers, Craigroyston, Heriot-Watt University, Leith Athletic, 
Lothian Thistle Hutchison Vale and Tynecastle. The Scotland national rugby 
union team and the professional Edinburgh Rugby team play at Murrayfield 
Stadium, which is owned by the Scottish Rugby Union and also used for other 
events, including music concerts. It is the largest capacity stadium in 
Scotland, seating 67,144 spectators.[196] Edinburgh is also home to RBS 
Premier One rugby teams Boroughmuir RFC, Heriot's Rugby Club, the Edinburgh 
Academicals and Currie RFC.[197] Rugby league is represented by the Edinburgh 
Eagles who play in the Rugby League Conference Scotland Division. Murrayfield 
Stadium has hosted the Magic Weekend where all Super League matches are 
played in the stadium over one weekend. Tynecastle Stadium Easter Road 
Stadium Murrayfield Stadium Meadowbank Stadium Edinburgh Marathon Murrayfield 
Ice Rink The Scottish cricket team, which represents Scotland internationally, 
play their home matches at the Grange cricket club.[198] The Edinburgh 
Capitals are the latest of a succession of ice hockey clubs in the Scottish 
capital. Previously Edinburgh was represented by the Murrayfield Racers 
and the Edinburgh Racers. The club play their home games at the Murrayfield 
Ice Rink and have competed in the ten-team professional Elite Ice Hockey 
League since the 2005–06 season.[199][200] Right next door to Murrayfield 
Ice Rink is a 7-sheeter dedicated curling facility where curling is played 
from October to March each season. The Edinburgh Diamond Devils is a baseball 
club which won its first Scottish Championship in 1991 as the "Reivers." 
1992 saw the team repeat the achievement, becoming the first team to do 
so in league history. The same year saw the start of their first youth 
team, the Blue Jays. The club adopted its present name in 1999.[201] Edinburgh 
has also hosted national and international sports events including the 
World Student Games, the 1970 British Commonwealth Games,[202] the 1986 
Commonwealth Games[202] and the inaugural 2000 Commonwealth Youth Games.[203] 
For the 1970 Games the city built Olympic standard venues and facilities 
including Meadowbank Stadium and the Royal Commonwealth Pool. The Pool 
underwent refurbishment in 2012 and is due to host the Diving competition 
in the 2014 Commonwealth Games which will be held in Glasgow.[204] In American 
football, the Scottish Claymores played WLAF/NFL Europe games at Murrayfield, 
including their World Bowl 96 victory. From 1995 to 1997 they played all 
their games there, from 1998 to 2000 they split their home matches between 
Murrayfield and Glasgow's Hampden Park, then moved to Glasgow full-time, 
with one final Murrayfield appearance in 2002.[205] The city's most successful 
non-professional team are the Edinburgh Wolves who play at Meadowbank Stadium.[206] 
The Edinburgh Marathon has been held annually in the city since 2003 with 
more than 16,000 runners taking part on each occasion.[207] Its organisers 
have called it "the fastest marathon in the UK" due to the elevation drop 
of 40 metres (130 ft).[208] The city also organises a half-marathon, as 
well as 10 km (6.2 miles) and 5 km (3.1 mi) races, including a 5 km (3 
miles) race on 1 January each year. Edinburgh has a speedway team, the 
Edinburgh Monarchs, which, since the loss of its stadium in the city, has 
raced at the Lothian Arena in Armadale, West Lothian. The Monarchs have 
won the Premier League championship five times in their history, in 2003[209] 
and again in 2008,[210] 2010, 2014 and 2015. Edinburgh has a long literary 
tradition, which became especially evident during the Scottish Enlightenment. 
This heritage and the city's lively literary life in the present led to 
it being declared the first UNESCO City of Literature in 2004.[211][212] 
Famous authors who have lived in Edinburgh include the economist Adam Smith, 
born in Kirkcaldy and author of The Wealth of Nations, [213] James Boswell, 
biographer of Samuel Johnson; Sir Walter Scott, creator of the historical 
novel and author of famous titles such as Rob Roy, Ivanhoe, and Heart of 
Midlothian; James Hogg, author of The Private Memoirs and Confessions of 
a Justified Sinner; Robert Louis Stevenson, creator of Treasure Island, 
Kidnapped, and The Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde; Sir Arthur Conan 
Doyle, the creator of Sherlock Holmes; Muriel Spark, author of The Prime 
of Miss Jean Brodie; Irvine Welsh, author of Trainspotting, whose novels 
are mostly set in the city and often written in colloquial Scots; [214] 
Ian Rankin, author of the Inspector Rebus series of crime thrillers, Alexander 
McCall Smith, author of the No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency series,[215] 
and J. K. Rowling, creator of Harry Potter, who began her first book in 
an Edinburgh coffee shop.[216] Scotland has a rich history of science and 
engineering, with Edinburgh producing a number of famous names. John Napier, 
inventor of logarithms, was born in Merchiston Tower and lived and died 
in the city.[217] His house now forms part of the original campus of Napier 
University which was named in his honour. He lies buried under St. Cuthbert's 
Church. James Clerk Maxwell, founder of the modern theory of electromagnetism, 
was born in the city and educated at the Edinburgh Academy and the University 
of Edinburgh,[213] as was the engineer and telephone pioneer Alexander 
Graham Bell.[213] James Braidwood, who organised Britain's first municipal 
fire brigade, was also born in the city and began his career there. Other 
names connected with the city include Max Born, physicist and Nobel laureate;[218] 
Charles Darwin, the biologist who propounded the theory of natural selection;[213] 
David Hume, philosopher, economist and historian;[213] James Hutton, regarded 
as the "Father of Geology";[213] Joseph Black, the chemist and one of the 
founders of thermodynamics;[213] pioneering medical researchers Joseph 
Lister and James Young Simpson;[213] chemist and discoverer of the element 
nitrogen Daniel Rutherford; Colin Maclaurin, mathematician and developer 
of the Maclaurin series,[219] and Ian Wilmut, the geneticist involved in 
the cloning of Dolly the sheep just outside Edinburgh.[213] The stuffed 
carcass of Dolly the sheep is now on display in the National Museum of 
Scotland.[220] The latest in a long line of science celebrities associated 
with the city is theoretical physicist and Nobel Prizewinner Professor 
Emeritus Peter Higgs, born in Newcastle but resident in Edinburgh for most 
of his academic career, after whom the Higgs boson particle has been named.[221] 
Edinburgh has been the birthplace of actors like Alastair Sim and Sir Sean 
Connery, famed as the first cinematic James Bond,[222] the comedian and 
actor Ronnie Corbett, best known as one of The Two Ronnies,[223] and the 
impressionist Rory Bremner. Famous artists from the city include the portrait 
painters Sir Henry Raeburn, Sir David Wilkie and Allan Ramsay. The city 
has produced or been home to some very successful musicians in recent decades, 
particularly Ian Anderson, front man of the band Jethro Tull, The Incredible 
String Band, the folk duo The Corries, Wattie Buchan, lead singer and founding 
member of punk band The Exploited, Shirley Manson, lead singer of the band 
Garbage, the Bay City Rollers, The Proclaimers, Boards of Canada and Idlewild. 
Edinburgh is the birthplace of former British Prime Minister Tony Blair 
who attended the city's Fettes College.[224] Notorious criminals from Edinburgh's 
past include Deacon Brodie, head of a trades guild and Edinburgh city councillor 
by day but a burglar by night, who is said to have been the inspiration 
for Robert Louis Stevenson's story, the Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr 
Hyde,[225] and murderers Burke and Hare who delivered fresh corpses for 
dissection to the famous anatomist Robert Knox.[226] Another well-known 
Edinburgh resident was Greyfriars Bobby. The small Skye Terrier reputedly 
kept vigil over his dead master's grave in Greyfriars Kirkyard for 14 years 
in the 1860s and 1870s, giving rise to a story of canine devotion which 
plays a part in attracting visitors to the city.[227] The City of Edinburgh 
has entered into 14 international twinning arrangements since 1954.[228] 
Most of the arrangements are styled as 'Twin Cities' but the agreement 
with Kraków is designated as a 'Partner City',[228] and the agreement with 
Kyoto Prefecture is officially styled as a 'Friendship Link', reflecting 
its status as the only region to be twinned with Edinburgh.[228] For a 
list of consulates in Edinburgh see List of diplomatic missions in Scotland. 
