Edith Grace Houghton (February 10, 1912 – February 2, 2013) was an American 
professional baseball player and scout. A former shortstop in women's baseball 
whose professional career began when she was ten years old,[1] Houghton 
became the first female scout in Major League Baseball when she joined 
the talent-spotting staff of the Philadelphia Phillies of the National 
League in 1946. She served in that role until 1952, when she returned to 
active service in the United States Navy.[1] She had joined the WAVES during 
World War II.[2] Houghton was a native of the North Philadelphia neighborhood 
at 25th and Diamond Streets in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Around 1917, 
Edith moved with her parents and nine older brothers and sisters to their 
brand-new house at 25th and Diamond. Directly across Diamond Street there 
was a large park with a baseball diamond. When the diamond was free, the 
kids in the neighborhood would start a game of baseball. The first position 
Edith played was shortstop. Edith’s father, William L. Houghton, distributed 
goods for a large grocery company. He was also a skilled baseball player 
who taught his youngest daughter many techniques. As young as age 6, Edith 
posed for photos in a baseball uniform. By the time she was 8, she dressed 
as the mascot for the Philadelphia police’s baseball team. Family, friends, 
and fans dubbed Edith “The Kid.”[3] Too young to join a factory team, 10-year-old 
Edith tried out for the semi-pro Philadelphia Bobbies team for non-working 
girls in 1922.[4] She bobbed her hair[5] like the rest of the players and 
quickly became the star. Her fielding and batting skills drew the attention 
of fans and reporters, as did her youth. Edith was the youngest on a team 
made up of mostly teenage girls. The Bobbies practiced in Fairmount Park, 
where Edith was a standout athlete and baseball player.[6] In 1925, she 
and the team made a trip to Japan to play all-male college and semi-pro 
teams.[6] Houghton was age 13.[1] On September 23, 1925, they boarded a 
train at the North Broad Street Station, several blocks from Edith’s house. 
Twelve Bobbies, their coach, and two men (to play pitcher and catcher) 
played eight games on their way to Seattle, en route to Yokohama, Japan. 
Once in Japan, they drew large crowds, especially at first. Edith impressed 
many Japanese reporters. Although they were contracted to play fifteen 
games for $800, their finances fell through midway through the trip. Half 
the team headed to Formosa and back to the United States. The other half, 
including Edith, stayed in Kobe and luckily found a contributor to fund 
their trip home by December.[7] Houghton briefly attended the new Simon 
Gratz High School, which had many sports that she wanted to play. After 
6 months, however, she went to Philadelphia High School for Girls (Girls’ 
High), on Spring Garden Street.[7] Edith went on to play for semi-pro baseball 
teams until she started softball in the 1930s. At that point women were 
pushed out of baseball into softball. Houghton later played with other 
women's pro teams such as the Hollywood Girls and the New York Bloomer 
Girls. In 1942, during World War II, Edith volunteered for the WAVES (Women 
Accepted for Volunteer Emergency Services). Although nominally a clerk, 
she was accepted into the department's baseball team.[2][8][9] The Navy 
newsletter wrote that "enlisted WAVE Houghton... can make any ball team 
in the country."[10] After the war, she took her skills to a new level. 
She approached Phillies’ owner R. R. M. Carpenter, Jr. in 1946 asking for 
an interview. She met with Carpenter and General Manager Herb Pennock. 
Soon the Phillies made national news: They hired Edith Houghton as Major 
League Baseball’s first female scout.[1] From 1946 to 1952, Edith scouted 
players and signed fifteen to contracts, mostly from Philadelphia-area 
high schools.[2][11] She left the team in 1952 and rejoined the Navy, where 
she served during the Korean[2] and Vietnam wars and retired as a chief 
petty officer.[8] In 1964, Houghton left Philadelphia and moved to Sarasota, 
Florida, where she lived until her death on February 2, 2013, eight days 
