The Edmonton Trappers were a Triple-A level baseball team in the Pacific 
Coast League, ending with the 2004 season. Home games were played at Telus 
Field in downtown Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. The Trappers joined the PCL 
in 1981 when Edmonton businessman Peter Pocklington purchased the Ogden 
A's franchise from Utah trucker Dennis Job. The team's games were originally 
played in Renfrew Park (later called John Ducey Park). The Trappers were 
immediately popular with the community, often above the league average 
in attendance, attracting almost half a million fans every season.[1] A 
total of 8 million fans came to see them play over the course of their 
24-year existence. In 1984, the Trappers (who, at the time, were the Triple-A 
farm team of the California Angels) became the first Canadian franchise 
to win a championship. They were also the only team to win a PCL Championship, 
and first to win any championship, under affiliation with the Angels. The 
manager was Moose Stubing. In 1995, John Ducey Park was torn down and replaced 
by Telus Field where the Trappers celebrated three PCL titles in their 
last decade, most recently in 2002 under the affiliation of the Minnesota 
Twins. In 2003, the team became the major affiliate of the Montréal Expos. 
Edmonton was the most successful, longest running, and second-to-last triple 
A team in Canada which gave the city of Edmonton the name Baseball City 
of Canada[citation needed]. On June 11, 2004, future Toronto Blue Jays 
pitcher Scott Downs threw a no-hitter against Las Vegas. It was the first 
no hitter by a Trapper since August 8, 1996 when Aaron Small threw one 
against the Vancouver Canadians. Edmonton qualified for playoffs for the 
last time in history in September 2003 when they defeated the Portland 
Beavers to make the post-season but were eliminated immediately by the 
Sacramento Rivercats 3 games to 0. In October 2003, the Trappers' fate 
in Edmonton was sealed when the team, then owned by the Canadian Football 
League's Edmonton Eskimos, was sold to a group led by Baseball Hall of 
Famer Nolan Ryan and his son Reid. The sale shocked many fans in Edmonton. 
The Ryans moved the team after the 2004 season to Round Rock, Texas, where 
it is now known as the Round Rock Express. The last home game, a sizeable 
crowd filled the stadium to give the Trappers a final sendoff against the 
Las Vegas 51s. The game, however, was rained out after only one inning. 
