Edward Bennett Williams (May 31, 1920 – August 13, 1988) was a Washington, 
D.C. trial attorney who founded the law firm of Williams & Connolly and 
owned several professional sports teams. He was born in Hartford, Connecticut 
and studied law at Georgetown University. He represented many high-profile 
clients, including Sam Giancana, John Hinckley, Jr., Frank Sinatra, financier 
Robert Vesco, Playboy publisher Hugh Hefner, spy Igor Melekh, Jimmy Hoffa, 
organized crime figure Frank Costello, oil commodity trader Marc Rich, 
U.S. Senator Joseph McCarthy, corporate raider Victor Posner, Michael Milken, 
the Washington Post newspaper and the Reverend Sun Myung Moon. Williams, 
who was a graduate of the College of the Holy Cross and Georgetown University 
Law Center, successfully defended – among others – Adam Clayton Powell, 
Jr., the Teamsters Union, John Connally and, as one of his last clients, 
Michael Milken. Two of Williams' closest friends were the Washington Post's 
Art Buchwald and Ben Bradlee. His debating team partner at Holy Cross was 
Robert Maheu, Howard Hughes's right-hand man for many years. Before establishing 
Williams & Connolly in 1967 with his friend and student Paul Connolly, 
he worked at the prominent, D.C.-based law firm of Hogan & Hartson from 
1945 to 1949. Williams bought a stake in the Washington Redskins from the 
estate of founding owner George Preston Marshall in the 1960s. He along 
with Jack Kent Cooke owned the Redskins until 1985 when Williams sold his 
share in the team to Cooke. Williams bought the Baltimore Orioles in 1980. 
At the same time, he bought back the shares that had been sold to the public 
in 1935 while the team was still in St. Louis as the Browns, making the 
franchise privately held once again. When he bought the Orioles, many feared 
he would move the team to Washington D.C., and these fears increased with 
the departure of the Colts. However, Williams never moved the team, and 
under his ownership, the team won its most recent World Series, in 1983. 
More importantly in the long term, Williams signed a new long term lease 
with Baltimore that would pay for a new stadium, which would become Oriole 
Park at Camden Yards. He would not live to see the new ballpark. Among 
Williams' many real estate holdings was the Jefferson Hotel, a 98-room 
luxury hotel located near the White House and favored by many sport and 
political figures in the 1980s/1990s. After an 11-year battle, Williams 
succumbed to cancer at age 68. His funeral was attended by most of Washington's 
power elite, including then-Vice President George H. W. Bush. He is buried 
in St. Gabriel Cemetery in Potomac, Maryland. The Edward Bennett Williams 
Law Library at Georgetown University Law Center is named in his honor. 
The senior apartments residence hall at the College of the Holy Cross is 
also named in his honor. Edward Bennett Williams married Dorothy Guider 
in 1949. They had three children: Joseph, Ellen, and Bennett. Guider died 
in 1959. In June 1960, Williams married Agnes Neill and had four children: 
Edward, Dana, Anthony, and Kimberly. Agnes Neill Williams worked as an 
attorney for the Williams & Connolly law firm. She now lives in Potomac, 
Maryland and serves on the Board of Advisors of the Georgetown Center for 
