Effa Louise Manley (March 27, 1897 – April 16, 1981) was an American sports 
executive, and the first woman inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame. 
She co-owned the Newark Eagles baseball franchise in the Negro leagues 
with her husband Abe Manley from 1935 to 1946 and was sole owner through 
1948 after his death. Throughout that time, she served as the team's business 
manager and fulfilled many of her husband's duties as treasurer of the 
Negro National League. Manley was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, where 
she attended school.[1] In 1916, she graduated from Penn Central High School, 
completing vocational training there in cooking, oral expression and sewing.[2] 
She entered the hatmaking business.[1] Manley's racial background is not 
completely known. It has been written[3] her biological parents may have 
been white, but she was raised by her black stepfather and white mother, 
leading most to assume her stepfather was her biological father and therefore 
to classify her as black. Daryl Russell Grigsby wrote, "...some insist 
she was a white woman exposed to black culture, who identified as black. 
Regardless of her ethnic origins, Effa Manley thought of herself as a black 
woman and was perceived by all who knew her as just that."[4]:p.55 Author 
Ted Schwarz wrote, "She was a white woman who passed as a black...She could 
stay in any hotel she desired."[5] According to the book The Most Famous 
Woman in Baseball by Bob Luke, Effie was born through an extramarital union 
between her African American[citation needed] seamstress mother, Bertha 
Ford Brooks, and Bertha's white employer, Philadelphia stockbroker John 
Marcus Bishop; therefore she may actually have been of mixed heritage. 
In an interview she gave, she seemed to enjoy the confusion her skin color 
created. She related a story of when her husband, Abe Manley took her to 
Tiffany's in New York for an engagement ring. She picked out a huge five-carat 
stone. She remarked at how every salesgirl in the store was on hand to 
get a glimpse of this "old Negro man buying this young white girl a five-carat 
ring" and how she got a kick out of it. In 1977, Manley was interviewed 
for an oral history project which is archived at the Louie B. Nunn Center 
for Oral History at the University of Kentucky Libraries. She married Abe 
Manley in 1935 after meeting him at a New York Yankees game, and he involved 
her extensively in the operation of his own club, the Newark Eagles in 
Newark, New Jersey.[6] She displayed particular skill in the area of marketing 
and often scheduled promotions that advanced the Civil Rights Movement. 
Her most noteworthy success was the Eagles' victory in the Negro League 
World Series in 1946. She worked to improve the condition of the players 
in the entire league. She advocated better scheduling, pay, and accommodations. 
Her players traveled in an air-conditioned Flxible Clipper bus, considered 
extravagant for the Negro leagues. She took over day-to-day business operations 
of the team, arranged playing schedules, planned the team's travel, managed 
and met the payroll, bought the equipment, negotiated contracts, and handled 
publicity and promotions. Thanks to her rallying efforts, more than 185 
VIPs—including New York City Mayor Fiorello La Guardia, who threw out the 
first pitch, and Charles C. Lockwood, justice of the Supreme Court of the 
State of New York—were on hand to watch the Eagles' inaugural game in 1935. 
Among the Eagles players during her ownership were future major league 
stars such as Larry Doby, who in 1947 was the first player to integrate 
the American League, Monte Irvin, and Don Newcombe. Manley was critical 
of Brooklyn Dodgers executive Branch Rickey, who signed Jackie Robinson 
to a minor league contract in 1945. She felt Negro league teams were justified 
in requesting compensation for players who were signed to major league 
contracts. Manley was also critical of Negro league fans who supported 
Rickey because they felt he was integrating the major leagues due to civil 
rights causes rather than her summation of Rickey seeking business opportunity 
for his motivation.[4]:p.58 She also was critical of Robinson when he talked 
of the disorganization of the Negro leagues, asking him to not forget his 
beginnings and the contributions the Negro leagues had made to the game.[4]:p.57–58 
Her influence extended beyond baseball; she was active in the Civil Rights 
Movement and a social activist. Before the civil rights movement, Manley 
supported "Don't Buy Where You Can't Work" boycotts. As part of her work 
for the Citizens' League for Fair Play, Manley organized a 1934 boycott 
of stores that refused to hire black salesclerks. After six weeks, the 
owners of the store (Blumstein's Department Store) gave in, and by the 
end of 1935 some 300 stores on 125th Street employed blacks. Manley was 
the treasurer of the Newark chapter of the National Association for the 
Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) and often used Eagles games to promote 
civic causes. In 1939 she held an "Anti-Lynching Day" at Ruppert Stadium. 
At this time most blacks were barred from practicing medicine. The Booker 
T. Washington Community Hospital, which offered training for colored doctors 
and nurses, opened due in a large part to money raised from the Newark 
Eagles. They played numerous benefit games to raise money for new medical 
equipment. They also raised money for black Elks lodges, a major part of 
urban black social life. The Eagles worked especially hard for groups that 
promoted the welfare of Newark's black population. In an exhibit honoring 
the Negro leagues at the Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, there is 
a banner given to the team by the Newark Student Camp Fund in recognition 
of their efforts to help the community. Another example of the relationship 
Effa helped forge with the community was copying a practice of another 
team which allowed the city's youth to attend games for free. Some children 
could afford the ten cent fare for the bus ride while others jump on the 
back of a moving bus to take advantage of the free ballgames. Because of 
Effa Manley, the Newark Eagles were as important to black Newark as the 
Dodgers were to Brooklyn. By the spring of 1981, her health had deteriorated 
to the point that she could no longer live in her apartment. She moved 
into a rest home run by former Negro league player Quincy Trouppe. She 
told Trouppe that she would go to the hospital to get checked out, even 
though the ambulance drivers did not think she was ill enough to go to 
the hospital. She had cancer of the colon, which progressed into peritonitis 
after surgery. She had a heart attack and died on April 16, 1981, having 
never returned to the rest home. She died just four days after boxer Joe 
Louis, her sports idol, who had been one of the most influential black 
athletes of that time. She was buried in Culver City. She was elected to 
the Baseball Hall of Fame in February 2006. She was the first woman named 
to the Hall of Fame.[7] In 2010 her life was the subject of a children's 
book, She Loved Baseball: The Effa Manley Story, written by Audrey Vernick 
