Eight Men Out is a 1988 sports drama film based on Eliot Asinof's 1963 
book Eight Men Out: The Black Sox and the 1919 World Series. It was written 
and directed by John Sayles. The film is a dramatization of Major League 
Baseball's Black Sox scandal, in which eight members of the Chicago White 
Sox conspired with gamblers to intentionally lose the 1919 World Series. 
Much of the movie was filmed at the old Bush Stadium in Indianapolis, Indiana.[3] 
In 1919, the Chicago White Sox are considered the greatest team in baseball 
and, in fact, one of the greatest ever assembled to that point, behind 
their greatest star, Joe Jackson. However, the team's owner, Charles Comiskey, 
is a skinflint with little inclination to reward his players for a spectacular 
season. When gamblers "Sleepy" Bill Burns and Billy Maharg get wind of 
the players' discontent, they offer a select group of Sox — including star 
knuckleball pitcher Eddie Cicotte, who led the majors with a 29-7 win-loss 
record and has an earned run average of just 1.82 — more money to play 
badly than they would have earned by winning the World Series against the 
Cincinnati Reds. Cicotte's motivation for being involved was because Comiskey 
refused him a promised $10,000 should he win 30 games for the season. Cicotte 
was nearing the milestone until Comiskey ordered team manager Kid Gleason 
to bench him for 2 weeks (missing 5 starts) to rest the 35-year-old veteran's 
arm for the series. A number of players, including Chick Gandil, Swede 
Risberg, and Lefty Williams, go along with the scheme. Jackson is depicted 
as being not bright and not entirely sure what is going on. Buck Weaver, 
meanwhile, is included with the seven others but insists that he wants 
nothing to do with the fix. When the best-of-nine series begins, Cicotte 
(pitching in Game 1) deliberately hits Reds leadoff hitter Morrie Rath 
in the back with his second pitch in a prearranged signal to gangster Arnold 
Rothstein that the fix was on. Cicotte then pitches poorly and gave up 
5 runs in four innings—four of them in the 4th, including a triple given 
up to Reds pitcher Walter "Dutch" Ruether. He is then relieved by Gleason, 
though the Sox lose the first game 9–1. Williams also pitched poorly in 
Game 2, while Gandil, Risberg and Hap Felsch made glaring mistakes on the 
field. Several of the players become upset, however, when the various gamblers 
involved fail to pay their promised money up front. Chicago journalists 
Ring Lardner and Hugh Fullerton grow increasingly suspicious. Meanwhile 
Gleason continues to hear rumors of a fix, but he remains confident that 
his boys will come through in the end. A third pitcher not in on the scam, 
rookie Dickie Kerr, wins Game 3 for the Sox, making both gamblers and teammates 
uncomfortable. Other teammates such as catcher Ray Schalk continue to play 
hard, while Weaver and Jackson show no visible signs of taking a dive with 
Weaver continuing to deny being in on the fix. Cicotte loses again in Game 
4. With the championship now in jeopardy, Gleason intends to bench Cicotte 
from his next start, but he begs for another chance. The manager reluctantly 
agrees and is given an easy Game 7 win. Unpaid by the gamblers, Williams 
also intends to win, but when his wife's life is threatened, he purposely 
pitches so badly, he was quickly relieved with "Big" Bill James in the 
1st inning. Jackson hits a home run off Reds pitcher Hod Eller in the 3rd 
inning, but the Sox lose the final game. Cincinnati wins the Series (5 
games to 3). Fullerton writes an article condemning the White Sox. An investigation 
begins into the possible fixing of the Series. In 1920, Cicotte and Jackson 
admit that a fix existed (though the illiterate Jackson is implied as having 
been coerced into making his confession). As a result of the revelations, 
Cicotte, Williams, Gandil, Felsch, Risberg, McMullin, Jackson, and Weaver 
are tried. The eight men are acquitted of any wrongdoing. However, newly 
appointed commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis bans the seven men (not 
including Jackson) for life because they either intentionally lost games 
or knew about the fix and didn't report it to team officials. In a 2013 
interview, Sayles told MLB Network's Bob Costas, "People said, 'Oh, you’ll 
never get this made. There’s a curse on it. People have been trying to 
make it for years.'" Talking about his thoughts for the cast when he first 
wrote the script, Sayles said "my original dream team had Martin Sheen 
at third base, and I ended up with Charlie in center field."[4] Several 
people involved in this film would go on to be involved with Ken Burns' 
1994 film miniseries Baseball. Cusack, Lloyd, and Sweeney did several voice-overs, 
reading recorded reminiscences of various personalities connected with 
the game. Sayles and Terkel were interviewed on the subject of the 1919 
World Series. Sayles also contributed to the section on Roberto Clemente, 
and Terkel, a historian and a former labor leader, spoke about the movement 
toward labor freedom in baseball. Terkel also "reprised his role" by reading 
Hugh Fullerton's columns during the section on the Black Sox.[5] During 
the late summer and early fall of 1987, news media in Indianapolis reported 
sightings of the film's actors, including Sheen and Cusack. Sayles told 
the Chicago Tribune that he hired them not because they were rising stars, 
but because of their ball-playing talent.[6] Sweeney remarked on the chilly 
Indiana temperatures in an interview with Elle magazine. "It got down to 
30, 40 degrees, but John [Sayles] would stand there in running shorts, 
tank tops, sneakers—sometimes without socks—and never look cold." The young 
actor said Sayles appeared to be focused on an "agenda, and that's all 
he cared about. Looking at him we thought, 'Well, if he's not cold, then 
we certainly shouldn't be.'"[7] Reports from the set location at Bush Stadium 
indicated that cast members were letting off steam between scenes. "Actors 
kidded around, rubbing dirt on each other", the Tribune reported. "... 
Actors trade jokes, smokes and candy" in the dugout. "'Some of them chewed 
tobacco at first, but,' noted Bill Irwin, 'Even the guys who were really 
into it started to chew apricots after a while.'"[8] Sheen made his reasons 
for taking the role clear. "I'm not in this for cash or my career or my 
performance", Sheen told the Tribune. "I wanted to take part in this film 
because I love baseball." When cloud cover would suddenly change the light 
during the shooting of a particular baseball scene, Sayles showed "inspirational 
decisiveness", according to Elle, by changing the scripted game they would 
be shooting—switching from Game Two of the series to Game Four, for example. 
"The second assistant director knew nothing about baseball", Sayles told 
Elle, "and she had to keep track of who was on base. Suddenly we'd change 
from Game Two to Game Four, and she'd have to shuffle through her papers 
to learn who was on second, then track the right guys down all over the 
ballpark."[9] Right-handed Sweeney told Elle that producers considered 
using an old Hollywood trick to create the illusion that he was hitting 
lefty. "We could have done it from the right side, then run to third and 
switched the negative, like they did in The Pride of the Yankees, but we 
didn't really have enough money for that", Sweeney said.[9] Ring Lardner, 
Jr., Oscar-winning screenwriter of such films as Woman of the Year and 
M*A*S*H, came to Bush Stadium to visit the set. Lardner's article in American 
Film magazine reported that Sayles' script depicted much of the story accurately, 
based on what he knew from his father. But the audience, Lardner wrote, 
"won't have the satisfaction of knowing exactly why everything worked out 
the way it did." Lardner also witnessed how the production crew had to 
make "a few hundred extras look like a World Series crowd of thousands", 
which were hampered by the production's inability to entice a substantial 
number of Indianapolis residents to come to the stadium to act as film 
extras. Lardner stated, "The producers offer free entertainment, Bingo 
with cash prizes, and as much of a stipend ($20 a day) as the budget permits 
..."[10] The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes gave the film a 
rating of 85%, based on 48 reviews, with an average rating of 7.2/10. The 
site's critical consensus reads, "Perhaps less than absorbing for non-baseball 
fans, but nevertheless underpinned by strong performances from the cast 
and John Sayles' solid direction."[11] When the film was first released, 
the film industry staff at Variety magazine wrote: "Perhaps the saddest 
chapter in the annals of professional American sports is recounted in absorbing 
fashion in Eight Men Out...The most compelling figures here are pitcher 
Eddie Cicotte (David Strathairn), a man nearing the end of his career who 
feels the twin needs to ensure a financial future for his family and take 
revenge on his boss, and Buck Weaver (John Cusack), an innocent enthusiast 
who took no cash for the fix but, like the others, was forever banned from 
baseball."[12] Film critic Roger Ebert was underwhelmed, writing, "Eight 
Men Out is an oddly unfocused movie made of earth tones, sidelong glances 
and eliptic[sic] conversations. It tells the story of how the stars of 
the 1919 Chicago White Sox team took payoffs from gamblers to throw the 
World Series, but if you are not already familiar with that story you're 
unlikely to understand it after seeing this film."[13] Ebert's television 
colleague Gene Siskel said, "Eight Men Out is fascinating if you are a 
baseball nut ... the portrayal of the recruiting of the ball players and 
the tight fisted rule of Comiskey is fascinating ... thumbs up."[14] Critic 
Janet Maslin spoke well of the actors, writing, "Notable in the large and 
excellent cast of Eight Men Out are D. B. Sweeney, who gives Shoeless Joe 
Jackson the slow, voluptuous Southern naivete of the young Elvis; Michael 
Lerner, who plays the formidable gangster Arnold Rothstein with the quietest 
aplomb; Gordon Clapp as the team's firecracker of a catcher; John Mahoney 
as the worried manager who senses much more about his players' plans than 
he would like to, and Michael Rooker as the quintessential bad apple. Charlie 
Sheen is also good as the team's most suggestible player, the good-natured 
fellow who isn't sure whether it's worse to be corrupt or be a fool. The 
story's delightfully colorful villains are played by Christopher Lloyd 
and Richard Edson (as the halfway-comic duo who make the first assault 
on the players), Michael Mantell as the chief gangster's extremely undependable 
right-hand man, and Kevin Tighe as the Bostonian smoothie who coolly declares: 
'You know what you feed a dray horse in the morning if you want a day's 
work out of him? Just enough so he knows he's hungry.' For Mr. Sayles, 
whose idealism has never been more affecting or apparent than it is in 
this story of boyish enthusiasm gone bad in an all too grown-up world, 
Eight Men Out represents a home run."[15] The film is recognized by American 
Film Institute in these lists: Eight Men Out was released on DVD by MGM 
(successor-in-interest to Orion Pictures) in two editions; a standard one 
