The El Paso Chihuahuas are a minor league baseball team representing El 
Paso, Texas, in the Pacific Coast League (PCL). They are the Triple-A affiliate 
for the San Diego Padres. The team plays its home games at Southwest University 
Park. The Chihuahuas moved to El Paso from Tucson, Arizona, where it was 
known as the Tucson Padres.[1] The Chihuahuas' heritage can be traced back 
to the establishment of the original Los Angeles Angels in 1903. These 
Angels (no relation to the current Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim) were 
one of the eight "core teams" of the PCL during its heyday in the 1950s. 
In 1957, the team was sold to Brooklyn Dodgers owner Walter O'Malley as 
a harbinger of the Dodgers' move to Los Angeles the following year. For 
1958, the Angels moved to Spokane, Washington, and became the (original) 
Spokane Indians. In 1972, the team moved again, this time to Albuquerque, 
New Mexico. As the Albuquerque Dukes, many of the team's star players and 
manager Tommy Lasorda formed the core of a Dodgers franchise that won the 
1977, 1978, and 1981 pennants and 1981 World Series title. After nearly 
two decades, the Dukes moved to Portland, Oregon, and became the latest 
version of the Portland Beavers in 2001. That franchise lasted 10 seasons 
until the inability to get a new ballpark to replace what is now Providence 
Park (renovated to accommodate the Portland Timbers of Major League Soccer) 
led to a relocation. At first, the plan was to move to Escondido, California, 
about 40 miles north of San Diego, as a club owned by the San Diego Padres. 
But once again, a new ballpark proved elusive, and the team landed in Tucson, 
Arizona, as the Tucson Padres. On July 30, 2012, the Pacific Coast League 
gave preliminary approval to MountainStar Sports Group to buy the Padres, 
with the intent to relocate the franchise to El Paso for the 2014 season. 
The deal was approved on September 17, 2012, pending approval for a ballpark 
by the city council. Ballpark approval was made on September 18, with the 
mayor deciding not to veto the deal.[2] The final sale of the Padres to 
MountainStar Sports was approved on September 26, 2012.[3] A name-the-team 
contest was held to decide the team's nickname. Finalists were Aardvarks, 
Buckaroos, Chihuahuas, Desert Gators, and Sun Dogs. The winning name was 
submitted by Shae Vierra. On October 22, 2013, the Chihuahuas name, logo 
and colors were announced.[1] The name is a reference to the Mexican State 
of Chihuahua, which borders El Paso, while the team logo is a growling 
chihuahua dog. Due to construction delays at the site of Southwest University 
Park, the Chihuahuas played their first 24 games of the 2014 season on 
the road, including a four-game series against the Reno Aces that was moved 
from El Paso to Tucson. The home opener finally took place on April 28, 
a 2–1 loss to the Fresno Grizzlies.[4] On September 17, 2016, the Chihuahuas 
plated a run in the 11th inning to defeat the Oklahoma City Dodgers 4-3 
to claim the El Paso's first ever PCL championship in just the franchise's 
third year of existence. Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager 
Coaches 7-day disabled list * On San Diego Padres 40-man roster # Rehab 
assignment ∞ Reserve list ‡ Restricted list § Suspended list † Temporary 
inactive list Roster updated September 7, 2016 Transactions → More MiLB 
