Elden le Roy Auker (September 21, 1910 – August 4, 2006) was an American 
right-handed pitcher in Major League Baseball (MLB) noted for his submarine 
pitching style. Auker was born and raised in Norcatur, Kansas, the son 
of Fred and Florence Auker. He attended college at Kansas State University 
in Manhattan, Kansas, where he was a brother of Phi Sigma Kappa. Called 
by former Kansas State University President James McCain, "the greatest 
all-around athlete in Kansas State history," Auker won nine varsity letters 
– three each in baseball, basketball and football during his college career 
from 1929–1932.[1] He was first-team All-American in baseball and All-Big 
Six Conference in baseball, football, and basketball.[1] In football, Auker 
starred at quarterback, was named second team All-American by Grantland 
Rice and was offered a $6,000 contract by the Chicago Bears. The Bears 
sent Bronko Nagurski to Manhattan to try to convince him to join the team.[citation 
needed] Auker turned down the Bears, however, to pitch for the Detroit 
Tigers. During his ten-year Major League career, Auker played with the 
Tigers, Boston Red Sox and St. Louis Browns. The first batter Auken faced 
was Babe Ruth, whom he struck out on four pitches. Auker was the last living 
pitcher to have faced Ruth.[2] While with Detroit, Auker went to consecutive 
World Series, in 1934 and 1935. In the 1934 Series against the St. Louis 
Cardinals, Auker was the winning pitcher in Game 4, but the loser to Dizzy 
Dean in the decisive Game 7. The next season, Auker led the American League 
in winning percentage with an 18–7 record. In the 1935 Series against the 
Chicago Cubs, Auker started Game 3, which Detroit won in extra innings, 
and the Tigers went on to win the Series four games to two. During the 
1935 World Series, Auker was interviewed by a young Cubs broadcaster, Ronald 
Reagan. When they met after Reagan had been elected governor of California, 
Reagan told him, "You probably won't remember me, but I'll remember you 
as long as I live." The radio interview, Reagan said, "was my first big 
break."[2] Before the 1939 season, Auker was traded by Detroit to the Red 
Sox for Pinky Higgins and Archie McKain. That season was Ted Williams's 
rookie year in Boston, and the two would develop what became a lifelong 
friendship during the season. However, Auker chafed playing under Red Sox 
manager Joe Cronin, and his 9–10 record in the year was the lowest win 
total of any full season he played. Auker finished his career playing three 
seasons with the Browns (1940–1942). During the 1941 season, he gave up 
hits to Joe DiMaggio during two games of DiMaggio's record 56-game hitting 
streak. Auker retired in 1943 so that he could contribute to the war effort. 
From 1943–1945, he worked on airplane and naval guns. From 1946 until 1975, 
Auker worked for Bay State Abrasives in Massachusetts, a company that made 
armaments and abrasive materials, retiring as the company president.[2] 
He was inducted into the Kansas Sports Hall of Fame in 1969.[1] Auker appeared 
at the last game played at Tiger Stadium on September 27, 1999. Auker spoke 
at the ceremony and told the crowd: "Never forget us, for we live on by 
those that carry on the Tiger tradition and who so proudly wear the olde 
English D."[citation needed] In 2001, Auker wrote his memoirs, entitled 
Sleeper Cars and Flannel Uniforms with Tom Keegan. He died at age 95 in 
