Elysian Fields in Hoboken, New Jersey is believed to be the site of the 
first organized baseball game, giving Hoboken a strong claim to be the 
birthplace of baseball.[1][2] In 1845, Knickerbocker Club of New York City 
began using Elysian Fields in Hoboken to play baseball due to the lack 
of suitable grounds across the Hudson River in Manhattan. On June 19, 1846, 
the Knickerbockers played the New York nine on these grounds in the first 
organized game between two clubs; Alexander Cartwright was the umpire. 
By the 1850s, several Manhattan-based member clubs of the National Association 
of Base Ball Players were using the grounds as their home field. In 1856, 
Elysian Fields was the place that inspired pioneering journalist Henry 
Chadwick, then a cricket writer for The New York Times, to develop the 
idea that baseball could be America's National Pastime. As Chadwick relates: 
"I chanced to go through Elysian Fields during the progress of a contest 
between the noted Eagle and Gotham Clubs. The game was being sharply played 
on both sides, and I watched it with deeper interest that any previous 
ball match between clubs I had seen. It was not long before I was struck 
with the idea that base ball was just the game for a national sport for 
Americans." Chadwick went on to become the game's preeminent reporter developing 
baseball's statistics and scoring system.[3] In 1859, an international 
cricket match was held with an All-England Eleven[4] as part of an English 
tour of North America. In 1865, the grounds hosted a championship match 
between the Mutual Club of New York and the Atlantic Club of Brooklyn that 
was attended by an estimated 20,000 fans and captured in the Currier & 
Ives lithograph "The American National Game of Base Ball". With the construction 
of two significant baseball parks in Brooklyn enclosed by fences, enabling 
promoters there to charge admission to games, the prominence of Elysian 
Fields began to diminish. In 1868, the leading Manhattan club, the New 
York Mutuals, shifted its home games to the Union Grounds in Brooklyn. 
In 1880, the founders of the New York Metropolitans and New York Giants 
finally succeeded in siting a ballpark on Manhattan that became known as 
the Polo Grounds. The last recorded professional baseball game at Elysian 
Fields occurred in 1873. The large parkland area was eventually developed 
for housing. A small remnant of the park remains bounded on the west by 
Hudson Street, on the north and east by Frank Sinatra Drive, and on the 
south by Castle Point Terrace. To the west of Elysian Park at the intersection 
of 11th and Washington Streets is where the original diamond is thought 
to have been located. In 2003 a civic improvement organization called the 
"Hoboken Industry and Business Association" renovated the intersection 
and placed concrete and bronze "base" monuments in the sidewalk corners 
at the intersection.[1] A bronze plaque denoting the connection to early 
baseball was placed in the median strip of 11th Street between first and 
second bases.[1] The restaurant and music club Maxwell's front door is 
adjacent to where third base was located. Media related to Elysian Fields, 
