. Emil Edwin Fuchs (17 April 1878 in Hamburg, Germany – 5 December 1961 
in Boston, Massachusetts [1]) was a German-born American baseball owner 
and executive. Fuchs was born in Germany to Jewish parents, Hermann and 
Henrietta,[2] but grew up on the Lower East Side of New York.[3] He received 
his LLB degree from New York University, and began practicing law in 1899. 
He was married to Oretta, and the couple had three children. From 1902-10 
Fuchs was Deputy Attorney General for New York.[3] Fuchs was the attorney 
for John McGraw's New York Giants when he bought the Boston Braves with 
Christy Mathewson and James McDonough in 1922. Matthewson was originally 
intended to be the principal owner. However, Mathewson's precarious health 
(he'd suffered a severe case of tuberculosis during World War I and never 
recovered) forced him to turn over the team presidency to Fuchs after the 
1923 season. After Jack Slattery quit as manager, Fuchs hired Rogers Hornsby 
to manage the rest of the 1928 season. However, Fuchs was already in financial 
trouble, and was forced to sell Hornsby to the Chicago Cubs after the season. 
He then took over as his own manager, finishing in last place. The Philadelphia 
Phillies loaned Fuchs $35,000 to keep the Braves solvent. By 1935, he was 
in such dire straits that he could not afford the rent on Braves Field. 
When he learned that Babe Ruth's days as a New York Yankee were numbered, 
Fuchs bought the slugger from Jacob Ruppert. Ruth was named vice-president 
and assistant manager of the Braves, and promised a share of team profits. 
Fuchs also hinted that Ruth, who made no secret of his managerial ambitions, 
could become manager as early as 1936. Ruth soon realized that his titles 
were almost meaningless, and that Fuchs was merely using him in a last-ditch 
effort to revive his fortunes. Seeing a team in disarray, Ruth announced 
his retirement on June 1. Fuchs was forced to sell the team to minority 
partner Charles Adams on July 31, 1935.[4] After selling the Braves, he 
