Emmett Littleton Ashford (November 23, 1914 – March 1, 1980), nicknamed 
"Ash", was the first African American umpire in Major League Baseball, 
working in the American League from 1966 to 1970. Ashford was born in Los 
Angeles. His father, Littleton, was a policeman, but abandoned the family, 
leaving Ashford's mother Adele to raise Emmett and his brother Wilbur. 
Ashford earned money selling Liberty magazine, and as a cashier in a supermarket.[1] 
Ashford attended Jefferson High School, and was co-editor of the school 
paper, played baseball and track, and was the senior class president. Ashford 
attended Los Angeles Junior College and Chapman University. In about 1936, 
Ashford took a job as a post office clerk, a position he held for 15 years. 
In the late 1930s, Ashford briefly attempted to play semipro baseball, 
but turned to umpiring when he was asked to fill in for an umpire that 
didn't show up to a game.[1] Ashford served in the Navy during World War 
II, and was inspired to become the first black major league umpire while 
stationed in Corpus Christi, Texas, when an announcement came on the radio 
that Jackie Robinson had broken baseball's color barrier.[2][3] In 1951, 
Ashford took a leave of absence from his post office job to umpire in the 
Southwestern International League, becoming the first black umpire in the 
traditionally white professional baseball system. When he was offered a 
full-season umpiring job, Ashford resigned from the postal service.[1] 
After the Southwestern International League folded mid-season, Ashford 
joined the Arizona–Texas League. He moved on to the Western International 
League in 1953, and was promoted to the Pacific Coast League in 1954.[1] 
Ashford spent 12 years in the PCL, and became known for his exuberance, 
showmanship and energy, even interacting with the crowd between innings. 
During the off-seasons, Ashford refereed Pac-8 basketball games and college 
football. He also umpired in the Caribbean winter leagues, and ran several 
umpiring clinics. In 1963, Ashford was named the PCL's umpire-in-chief, 
making him responsible for training crews and advising the league on disputed 
games or rules.[1] By the early 1960s, many West Coast sportswriters began 
to suggest that Ashford be promoted to the major leagues. In September 
1965, Ashford's contract was sold to the American League. Ashford made 
his debut at D.C. Stadium on April 11, 1966.[4] He quickly became a sensation, 
becoming known for sprinting around the infield after foul balls or plays 
on the bases. Ashford also brought a new style to being an umpire. He wore 
jewelry, including flashy cuff links, and wore polished shoes and freshly-pressed 
suits. While some observers believed that his race prevented him from working 
in the majors earlier than he did, others maintained that his flashy style 
actually delayed his major league debut due to general disdain for umpires 
to draw attention to themselves. The Sporting News stated that "For the 
first time in the history of the grand old American game, baseball fans 
may buy a ticket to watch an umpire perform."[1] Ashford was the left field 
umpire in the 1967 All-Star Game, and worked all five games of the 1970 
World Series, but did not work home plate.[5] Ashford reached the American 
League's retirement age of 55 in December 1969, but still umpired one additional 
season in 1970 before retiring.[1] In 1971, Ashford was hired by commissioner 
Bowie Kuhn as a public relations adviser, in which Ashford spoke and held 
clinics on the west coast, and at places as far away as Korea. He also 
served as umpire-in-chief for the Alaskan summer league for three years. 
He appeared in television commercials, playing a cashier in an ad for A&P 
Grocery stores. Ashford also appeared as an umpire in the 1976 film The 
Bingo Long Traveling All-Stars & Motor Kings, and in episodes of Ironside, 
The Jacksons, and What's My Line?, in which Ashford appeared in his first 
major league season.[1] Ashford was also a contestant on 17 November 1955 
TV edition of You Bet Your Life. Ashford died of a heart attack at age 
65 in Marina del Rey, California. Upon his death, Bowie Kuhn issued a statement, 
saying, "As the first black umpire in the major leagues, his magnanimous 
nature was sternly tested, but he was unshaken and uncomplaining, remaining 
the colorful, lively personality he was all his life."[6] At his funeral, 
Ashford was eulogized by Kuhn and former USC baseball coach Rod Dedeaux. 
Ashford was cremated, and his ashes were interred in Cooperstown, New York.[1] 
