The Empire State Building is a 102-story[7][8][9][note 2] skyscraper located 
on Fifth Avenue between West 33rd and 34th Streets in Midtown, Manhattan, 
New York City. It has a roof height of 1,250 feet (381 m), and with its 
antenna spire included, it stands a total of 1,454 feet (443 m) high.[7] 
Its name is derived from the nickname for New York, the Empire State. It 
stood as the world's tallest building for nearly 40 years, from its completion 
in early 1931 until the topping out of the original World Trade Center's 
North Tower in late 1970.[14] Following the September 11 attacks in 2001, 
the Empire State Building was again the tallest building in New York, until 
One World Trade Center reached a greater height in April 2012.[15] The 
Empire State Building is currently the fifth-tallest completed skyscraper 
in the United States and the 29th-tallest in the world. It is also the 
fifth-tallest freestanding structure in the Americas. When measured by 
pinnacle height, it is the fourth-tallest building in the United States. 
The Empire State Building is an American cultural icon. It is designed 
in the distinctive Art Deco style and has been named as one of the Seven 
Wonders of the Modern World by the American Society of Civil Engineers. 
The building and its street floor interior are designated landmarks of 
the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission, and confirmed by the 
New York City Board of Estimate.[16] It was designated as a National Historic 
Landmark in 1986.[12][17][18] In 2007, it was ranked number one on the 
AIA's List of America's Favorite Architecture. The building is owned by 
the Empire State Realty Trust, of which Anthony Malkin serves as Chairman, 
CEO and President.[19] In 2010, the Empire State Building underwent a $550 million 
renovation, with $120 million spent to transform the building into a more 
energy efficient and eco-friendly structure.[20] The Empire State Building 
is the tallest Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED)-certified 
building in the United States, having received a gold LEED rating in September 
2011.[21] The site of the Empire State Building was first developed as 
the John Thompson Farm in the late 18th century.[22] At the time, a stream 
ran across the site, emptying into Sunfish Pond, located a block away. 
Beginning in the late 19th century, the block was occupied by the Waldorf-Astoria 
Hotel,[23] frequented by The Four Hundred, the social elite of New York. 
The limestone for the Empire State Building came from the Empire Mill in 
Sanders, Indiana which is an unincorporated town adjacent to Bloomington, 
Indiana. The Empire Mill Land office is near State Road 37 and Old State 
Road 37 just south of Bloomington. The Bloomington, Bedford, and Oolitic 
area is known locally as the limestone capital of the world.[24][25] The 
Empire State Building was designed by William F. Lamb from the architectural 
firm Shreve, Lamb and Harmon, which produced the building drawings in just 
two weeks, using its earlier designs for the Reynolds Building in Winston-Salem, 
North Carolina, and the Carew Tower in Cincinnati, Ohio (designed by the 
architectural firm W. W. Ahlschlager & Associates) as a basis.[26][27] 
Every year the staff of the Empire State Building sends a Father's Day 
card to the staff at the Reynolds Building in Winston-Salem to pay homage 
to its role as predecessor to the Empire State Building.[28] The building 
was designed from the top down.[29] The general contractors were The Starrett 
Brothers and Eken, and the project was financed primarily by John J. Raskob 
and Pierre S. du Pont. The construction company was chaired by Alfred E. 
Smith, a former Governor of New York and James Farley's General Builders 
Supply Corporation supplied the building materials.[1] John W. Bowser was 
project construction superintendent.[30][31][32] Excavation of the site 
began on January 22, 1930, and construction on the building itself started 
on March 17—St. Patrick's Day—per Al Smith's influence as Empire State, 
Inc. president. The project involved 3,400 workers, mostly immigrants from 
Europe, along with hundreds of Mohawk iron workers, many from the Kahnawake 
reserve near Montreal. According to official accounts, five workers died 
during the construction.[33] Governor Smith's grandchildren cut the ribbon 
on May 1, 1931. Lewis Wickes Hine's photography of the construction provides 
not only invaluable documentation of the construction, but also a glimpse 
into common day life of workers in that era.[34] The construction was part 
of an intense competition in New York for the title of "world's tallest 
building". Two other projects fighting for the title, 40 Wall Street and 
the Chrysler Building, were still under construction when work began on 
the Empire State Building. Each held the title for less than a year, as 
the Empire State Building surpassed them upon its completion, on April 
11, 1931, 12 days ahead of schedule, just 410 days after construction commenced.[2] 
The building was officially opened on May 1, 1931 in dramatic fashion, 
when United States President Herbert Hoover turned on the building's lights 
with the push of a button from Washington, D.C. Ironically, the first use 
of tower lights atop the Empire State Building, the following year, was 
for the purpose of signaling the victory of Franklin D. Roosevelt over 
Hoover in the presidential election of November 1932.[35] The building's 
opening coincided with the Great Depression in the United States, and as 
a result much of its office space was initially unrented. The building's 
vacancy was exacerbated by its poor location on 34th Street, which placed 
it relatively far from public transportation, as Grand Central Terminal 
and Penn Station, built decades beforehand, are several blocks away, as 
is the more recently built Port Authority Bus Terminal. Other more successful 
skyscrapers, such as the Chrysler Building, did not have this problem. 
In its first year of operation, the observation deck took in approximately 
2 million dollars, as much money as its owners made in rent that year. 
The lack of renters led New Yorkers to deride the building as the "Empty 
State Building".[36][37] The building only became profitable in 1950. The 
1951 sale of the Empire State Building to Roger L. Stevens and his business 
partners was brokered by the prominent upper Manhattan real-estate firm 
Charles F. Noyes & Company for a record $51 million. At the time, that 
was the highest price paid for a single structure in real-estate history.[38] 
At 9:40 am on Saturday, July 28, 1945, a B-25 Mitchell bomber, piloted 
in thick fog by Lieutenant Colonel William Franklin Smith, Jr.,[39] crashed 
into the north side of the Empire State Building, between the 79th and 
80th floors, where the offices of the National Catholic Welfare Council 
were located. One engine shot through the side opposite the impact and 
flew as far as the next block, where it landed on the roof of a nearby 
building, starting a fire that destroyed a penthouse. The other engine 
and part of the landing gear plummeted down an elevator shaft. The resulting 
fire was extinguished in 40 minutes. Fourteen people were killed in the 
incident.[40][41] Elevator operator Betty Lou Oliver survived a plunge 
of 75 stories inside an elevator, which still stands as the Guinness World 
Record for the longest survived elevator fall recorded.[42] Despite the 
damage and loss of life, the building was open for business on many floors 
on the following Monday. The crash helped spur the passage of the long-pending 
Federal Tort Claims Act of 1946, as well as the insertion of retroactive 
provisions into the law, allowing people to sue the government for the 
incident.[43] A year later, another aircraft narrowly missed striking the 
building.[44] Over the years, more than 30 people have attempted suicide, 
most successfully, by jumping from the upper parts of the building.[45] 
The first suicide occurred even before its completion, by a worker who 
had been laid off. The fence around the observatory terrace was put up 
in 1947 after five people tried to jump during a three-week span.[46] On 
December 16, 1943, ex-United States Navy gunner's mate William Lloyd Rambo, 
22, jumped to his death from the 86th floor, landing amidst Christmas shoppers 
on the street below.[47] In the early morning of September 27, 1946, shell-shocked 
27-year-old Marine Douglas W. Brashear, Jr. jumped from the 76th-floor 
window of the Grant Advertising Agency after phoning a co-worker to tell 
her "I know now this is the end." Police found his shoes 50 feet from his 
body.[48] On May 1, 1947, 23-year-old Evelyn McHale leapt to her death 
from the 86th floor observation deck and landed on a limousine parked at 
the curb. Photography student Robert Wiles took a photo of McHale's oddly 
intact corpse a few minutes after her death. The police found a suicide 
note among possessions she left on the observation deck: "He is much better 
off without me ... I wouldn’t make a good wife for anybody". The photo 
ran in the edition of May 12, 1947 of Life magazine,[49] and is often referred 
to as "The Most Beautiful Suicide". It was later used by visual artist 
Andy Warhol in one of his prints entitled Suicide (Fallen Body).[50] Only 
one person has jumped from the upper observatory: on November 3, 1932, 
Frederick Eckert, of Astoria, ran past a guard in the enclosed 102nd floor 
gallery and jumped a gate leading to an outdoor catwalk intended for dirigible 
passengers. He landed and died on the roof of the 86th floor observation 
promenade.[51] Two people have survived jumps, in both cases by not falling 
more than a floor: On December 2, 1979, Elvita Adams jumped from the 86th 
floor, only to be blown back onto a ledge on the 85th floor by a gust of 
wind and left with a broken hip.[52][53][54] On April 25, 2013, a man, 
who is presumed to have jumped, fell from the 86th floor observation deck 
but landed alive on an 85th floor ledge – where security guards brought 
him inside with minor injuries.[55] Two major shooting incidents have occurred 
at or in front of the Empire State Building. On February 23, 1997, at about 
5 p.m. EST, a gunman shot seven people on the 86th floor observation deck. 
Abu Kamal, a 69-year-old Palestinian teacher, killed one person and wounded 
six others, supposedly in response to events happening in Palestine and 
Israel, before committing suicide.[56] On August 24, 2012 at about 9 a.m. 
EDT, on the sidewalk at the Fifth Avenue side of the building, a gunman 
shot and killed a former co-worker from a workplace that had laid him off 
in 2011. When two police officers confronted the gunman, 58-year-old Jeffrey 
T. Johnson, he aimed his firearm at them. They responded by firing 16 shots 
at Johnson, killing him but also wounding nine bystanders, most of whom 
were hit by fragments, although three took direct hits from bullets.[57] 
The Empire State Building rises to 1,250 ft (381 m) at the 102nd floor, 
and including the 203 ft (62 m) pinnacle, its full height reaches 1,453 feet 
8 9⁄16 inches (443.092 m). The building has 85 stories of commercial and 
office space representing 2,158,000 sq ft (200,500 m2) of rentable space. 
It has an indoor and outdoor observation deck on the 86th floor. The remaining 
16 stories represent the Art Deco tower, which is capped by a 102nd-floor 
observatory. Atop the tower is the 203 ft (62 m) pinnacle, much of which 
is covered by broadcast antennas, with a lightning rod at the very top. 
The Empire State Building was the first building to have more than 100 
floors. It has 6,500 windows and 73 elevators, and there are 1,860 steps 
from street level to the 102nd floor. It has a total floor area of 2,768,591 sq ft 
(257,211 m2); the base of the Empire State Building is about 2 acres (8,094 m2). 
The building houses 1,000 businesses and has its own ZIP code, 10118. As 
of 2007, approximately 21,000 employees work in the building each day, 
making the Empire State Building the second-largest single office complex 
in America, after the Pentagon. The building was completed in one year 
and 45 days. Its original 64 elevators are located in a central core;[58] 
today, the Empire State Building has 73 elevators in all, including service 
elevators. It takes less than one minute by elevator to get to the 80th 
floor, which contains a gift shop and an exhibit detailing the building's 
construction. From there, visitors can take another elevator or climb the 
stairs to the 86th floor, where an outdoor observation deck is located. 
The building has 70 mi (113 km) of pipe, 2,500,000 ft (760,000 m) of electrical 
wire,[59] and about 9,000 faucets.[citation needed] It is heated by low-pressure 
steam; despite its height, the building only requires between 2 and 3 psi 
(14 and 21 kPa) of steam pressure for heating. It weighs approximately 
370,000 short tons (340,000 t). The exterior of the building is clad in 
Indiana limestone panels. The Empire State Building cost $40,948,900 to 
build[4] (equivalent to $638,247,300 in 2016). Long-term forecasting of 
the life cycle of the structure was implemented at the design phase to 
ensure that the building's future intended uses were not restricted by 
the requirements of previous generations. This is particularly evident 
in the over-design of the building's electrical system. The building's 
art deco design is typical of pre–World War II architecture in New York. 
The modernistic stainless steel canopies of the entrances on 33rd and 34th 
Streets lead to two story-high corridors around the elevator core, crossed 
by stainless steel and glass-enclosed bridges at the second-floor level. 
The elevator core contains 67 elevators.[16] The lobby is three stories 
high and features an aluminum relief of the skyscraper without the antenna, 
which was not added to the spire until 1952. The north corridor contained 
eight illuminated panels, created by Roy Sparkia and Renée Nemorov in 1963 
in time for the 1964 World's Fair, which depicts the building as the Eighth 
Wonder of the World, alongside the traditional seven. These panels were 
eventually moved near a ticketing line for the observation deck. Until 
the 1960s, the ceilings in the lobby had a shiny art deco mural inspired 
by both the sky and the Machine Age, until it was covered with ceiling 
tiles and fluorescent lighting. Because the original murals, designed by 
an artist named Leif Neandross, were damaged, reproductions were installed. 
Over 50 artists and workers used 15,000 square feet of aluminum and 1,300 
square feet of 23-carat gold leaf to re-create the mural. Renovations to 
the lobby alluded to original plans for the building; replacing the clock 
over the information desk in the Fifth Avenue lobby with an anemometer, 
as well as installing two chandeliers originally intended to be part of 
the building when it first opened.[60] In 2000, the building's owners installed 
a series of paintings by the New York artist Kysa Johnson in the concourse 
level. In January 2014 the artist filed suit in federal court in New York 
under the Visual Artists Rights Act, alleging the negligent destruction 
of the paintings and damage to her reputation as an artist.[61] The building's 
lobbies and common areas received a $550 million renovation in 2009, which 
included new air conditioning, waterproofing, and renovating the observation 
deck; moving the gift shop to the 80th floor.[62] Of this, $120 million 
was spent in an effort to transform the building into a more energy efficient 
and eco-friendly structure.[20] For example, the 6,500 windows were remanufactured 
onsite into superwindows which block heat but pass light. Air conditioning 
operating costs on hot days were reduced and this saved $17 million of 
the project's capital cost immediately, partly funding other retrofitting.[63] 
Receiving a gold Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) rating 
in September 2011, the Empire State Building is the tallest LEED certified 
building in the United States.[21] On the 102nd floor of the Empire State 
Building there is a door with stairs ascending to the 103rd floor.[64] 
This was built as a disembarkation floor for airships tethered to the building's 
spire, and has a circular balcony outside.[65] It is now a hot spot for 
celebrities,[citation needed] and an access point to reach the spire for 
maintenance. The room now contains electrical equipment. Above the 103rd 
floor, there is a set of stairs and a ladder to reach the spire for maintenance 
work. The building's Art Deco spire was designed to be a mooring mast and 
depot for dirigibles.[66] An elevator between the 86th and 102nd floors 
would carry passengers after they checked in on the 86th floor.[67] The 
idea proved impractical and dangerous, due to the powerful updrafts caused 
by the building itself,[68] as well as the lack of mooring lines tying 
the other end of the craft to the ground.[69] The building's design was 
expanded to include the mooring mast as part of a competition for the world's 
tallest building.[citation needed] A large broadcast tower was added atop 
the spire in the early 1950s, to support the transmission antennas of several 
television and FM stations. Until then, NBC had exclusive rights to the 
site, and – beginning in 1931 – built various, smaller antennas for their 
television transmissions.[66] New York City is the largest media market 
in the United States. Since the September 11 attacks, nearly all of the 
city's commercial broadcast stations (both television and FM radio) have 
transmitted from the top of the Empire State Building, although a few FM 
stations are located at the nearby Condé Nast Building. Most New York City 
AM stations broadcast from sites across the Hudson River in New Jersey 
or from other surrounding areas. Broadcasting began at the Empire State 
Building on December 22, 1931, when RCA began transmitting experimental 
television broadcasts from a small antenna erected atop the spire. They 
leased the 85th floor and built a laboratory there, and—in 1934—RCA was 
joined by Edwin Howard Armstrong in a cooperative venture to test his FM 
system from the building's antenna. When Armstrong and RCA fell out in 
1935 and his FM equipment was removed, the 85th floor became the home of 
RCA's New York television operations, first as experimental station W2XBS 
channel 1, which eventually became (on July 1, 1941) commercial station 
WNBT, channel 1 (now WNBC-TV channel 4). NBC's FM station (WEAF-FM, now 
WQHT) began transmitting from the antenna in 1940. NBC retained exclusive 
use of the top of the building until 1950, when the FCC ordered the exclusive 
deal broken, based on consumer complaints that a common location was necessary 
for the (now) seven New York-area television stations (five licensed to 
New York City, NY, one licensed to Newark, NJ, and one licensed to Secaucus, 
NJ) to transmit from so that receiving antennas would not have to be constantly 
adjusted. Construction on a giant tower began. Other television broadcasters 
then joined RCA at the building, on the 83rd, 82nd, and 81st floors, frequently 
bringing sister FM stations along for the ride. Multiple transmissions 
of TV and FM began from the new tower in 1951. In 1965, a separate set 
of FM antennas was constructed ringing the 103rd floor observation area 
to act as a master antenna. When the World Trade Center was being constructed, 
it caused serious reception problems for the television stations, most 
of which then moved to the World Trade Center as soon as it was completed. 
This made it possible to renovate the antenna structure and the transmitter 
facilities for the benefit of the FM stations remaining there, which were 
soon joined by other FMs and UHF TVs moving in from elsewhere in the metropolitan 
area. The destruction of the World Trade Center necessitated a great deal 
of shuffling of antennas and transmitter rooms to accommodate the stations 
moving back uptown. As of 2012, the Empire State Building is home to the 
following stations: The Empire State Building has one of the most popular 
outdoor observatories in the world, having been visited by over 110 million 
people. The 86th-floor observation deck offers impressive 360-degree views 
of the city. There is a second observation deck on the 102nd floor that 
is open to the public. It was closed in 1999, but reopened in November 
2005. It is completely enclosed and much smaller than the first one; it 
may be closed on high-traffic days. Tourists may pay to visit the observation 
deck on the 86th floor and an additional amount for the 102nd floor.[70] 
The lines to enter the observation decks, according to Concierge.com, are 
"as legendary as the building itself:" there are five of them: the sidewalk 
line, the lobby elevator line, the ticket purchase line, the second elevator 
line, and the line to get off the elevator and onto the observation deck.[71] 
For an extra fee tourists can skip to the front of the line.[70] The Empire 
State Building makes more money from tickets sales for its observation 
decks than it does from renting office space.[72] The skyscraper's observation 
deck plays host to several cinematic, television, and literary classics 
including, An Affair To Remember, On the Town, Love Affair and Sleepless 
in Seattle. In the Latin American literary classic, Giannina Braschi's 
Empire of Dreams the observation deck is the site of a pastoral revolution; 
shepherds take over the City of New York.[73] The deck was also the site 
of a publicity-stunt Martian invasion in an episode of I Love Lucy ("Lucy 
Is Envious", season 3, episode 25). The Empire State Building also has 
a motion simulator attraction located on the 2nd floor. Opened in 1994 
as a complement to the observation deck, the New York Sky ride (or NY Sky 
ride) is a simulated aerial tour over the city. The cinematic presentation 
lasts approximately 25 minutes. As of May 2013, tickets are Adults $57, 
Children $42, Seniors $49. Since its opening, the ride has gone through 
two incarnations. The original version, which ran from 1994 until around 
2002, featured James Doohan, Star Trek's Scotty, as the airplane's pilot, 
who humorously tried to keep the flight under control during a storm, with 
the tour taking an unexpected route through the subway, Coney Island, and 
FAO Schwartz, among other places. After the September 11 attacks in 2001, 
however, the ride was closed, and an updated version debuted in mid-2002 
with actor Kevin Bacon as the pilot. The new version of the narration attempted 
to make the attraction more educational, and included some minor post-9/11 
patriotic undertones with retrospective footage of the World Trade Center. 
The new flight also goes haywire, but this segment is much shorter than 
in the original. In 1964, floodlights were added to illuminate the top 
of the building at night.[74] Since 1976 the spire has been lit in colors 
chosen to match seasonal and other events, such as St. Patrick's Day, Christmas, 
Independence Day and Bastille Day. After the eightieth birthday and subsequent 
death of Frank Sinatra, for example, the building was bathed in blue light 
to represent the singer's nickname "Ol' Blue Eyes". After the death of 
actress Fay Wray (King Kong) in late 2004, the building stood in complete 
darkness for 15 minutes.[75] The floodlights bathed the building in red, 
white, and blue for several months after the destruction of the World Trade 
Center, then reverted to the standard schedule.[76] On June 4, 2002, the 
Empire State Building donned purple and gold (the royal colors of Elizabeth 
II), in thanks for the United Kingdom playing the Star Spangled Banner 
during the Changing of the Guard at Buckingham Palace on September 12, 
2001 (a show of support after the September 11 attacks).[77] This would 
also be shown after the Westminster Dog Show. Traditionally, in addition 
to the standard schedule, the building will be lit in the colors of New 
York's sports teams on the nights they have home games (orange, blue and 
white for the New York Knicks, red, white and blue for the New York Rangers, 
and so on). The first weekend in June finds the building bathed in green 
light for the Belmont Stakes held in nearby Belmont Park. The building 
is illuminated in tennis-ball yellow during the US Open tennis tournament 
in late August and early September. It was twice lit in scarlet to support 
nearby Rutgers University: once for a football game against the University 
of Louisville on November 9, 2006, and again on April 3, 2007 when the 
women's basketball team played in the national championship game.[78] On 
January 13, 2012, the building was lit in red, orange, and yellow to honor 
the 60th anniversary of NBC's The Today Show making it the first time the 
building was illuminated to honor a television program. From June 1 to 
3, 2012, the building was lit in blue and white, the colors of the Israeli 
flag, in honor of the 49th annual Celebrate Israel Parade.[79] During 2012, 
the building's metal halide lamps and floodlights were replaced with LED 
fixtures, increasing the available colors from nine to over 16 million. 
The computer-controlled system allows the building to be illuminated in 
ways that were unable to be done previously with plastic gels. For instance, 
on November 6, 2012, CNN used the top of the Empire State Building as a 
scoreboard for the 2012 United States presidential election. When incumbent 
president Barack Obama had reached the 270 electoral votes necessary to 
win re-election, the lights turned blue. Had Republican challenger Mitt 
Romney won, the building would have been lit red.[80] Also, on November 
26, 2012, the building had its first ever synchronized light show, using 
music from recording artist Alicia Keys.[81][82] Those wishing to hear 
the music could tune to certain radio stations in the New York area. A 
video of the performance was posted online the next day.[83] In 2013 the 
lights were changed to Financial Times pink.[84] In the run-up week to 
Super Bowl XLVIII held at MetLife Stadium on February 2, 2014, the building 
was lit in a contest sponsored by the National Football League's wireless 
partner, Verizon Wireless to determine both the winner and fan support 
for the two teams via their team colors in the game through the #WhosGonnaWin 
Twitter hashtag, either the "action green" and navy blue of the Seattle 
Seahawks or orange and blue of the Denver Broncos, along with a light show 
during the game's halftime.[85] The Empire State Building remained the 
tallest man-made structure in the world for 23 years before it was surpassed 
by the Griffin Television Tower Oklahoma (KWTV Mast) in 1954. It was also 
the tallest free-standing structure in the world for 36 years before it 
was surpassed by the Ostankino Tower in 1967. The longest world record 
held by the Empire State Building was for the tallest skyscraper (to structural 
height), which it held for 42 years until it was surpassed by the North 
Tower of the World Trade Center in 1972. An early-1970s proposal to dismantle 
the spire and replace it with an additional 11 floors, which would have 
brought the building's height to 1,494 feet (455 m) and made it once again 
the world's tallest at the time, was considered but ultimately rejected.[86] 
With the destruction of the World Trade Center in the September 11 attacks, 
the Empire State Building again became the tallest building in New York 
City, and the second-tallest building in the Americas, surpassed only by 
the Willis Tower in Chicago. It is currently the fifth-tallest, surpassed 
by the Willis Tower, the Trump International Hotel and Tower (Chicago), 
432 Park Avenue and the new One World Trade Center. One World Trade Center 
surpassed the roof height of the Empire State Building on April 30, 2012, 
and became the tallest building in New York City—on the way toward becoming 
the tallest building in the Americas at a planned 1,776 feet (541 m). The 
Empire State Building is currently the fifth-tallest completed skyscraper 
in the United States, after the One World Trade Center, 432 Park Avenue 
in New York City, the Willis Tower and Trump International Hotel and Tower, 
both in Chicago. It is also the 25th-tallest in the world, the tallest 
now is Burj Khalifa, located in Dubai. It is also the fifth-tallest freestanding 
structure in the Americas. On clear days, the building can be seen from 
much of the New York Metropolitan Area, and as far away as New Haven, Connecticut 
and Morristown, New Jersey.[citation needed] The Empire State Building 
anchors an area of Midtown which features other major Manhattan landmarks 
as well, including Macy's Herald Square, Koreatown,[87] Penn Station, Madison 
Square Garden, and the Flower District.[88] Together, these sites contribute 
to a significant volume of commuter and tourist pedestrian traffic traversing 
the southern portion of Midtown Manhattan. Current Former Sunrise (December 
2005) Spire seen from east on 34th Street (2013) As seen from Queens during 
sunset (August 2016) As seen from Washington Square Park As seen from ground 
level on 35th Street As seen from Broadway and 21st Street As seen from 
the distance at sunset View from Weehawken, New Jersey Street-level side 
view, 2013 Griffin sculptures over front entrance, 2013 Looking up from 
the observation deck Looking down Looking toward Times Square lit in Purple 
for the National Purple Heart day Mural of the building, located in the 
lobby Art deco elevators in the lobby Building souvenir Lit in red and 
green lights for Christmas, as seen from the GE Building With Christmas 
lights Lit in yellow to promote The Simpsons Movie home video release Lit 
in yellow and red during the 60th anniversary of the PRC Lit in blue after 
Barack Obama was declared winner of the 2012 United States Presidential 
Election (in the US, red commonly represents Republicans, blue for Democrats) 
