The English cricket team in North America in 1859 was the first ever overseas 
cricket tour by an English team. The touring team is sometimes referred 
to as George Parr's XI. The idea for the tour came from William Pickering, 
a former player who had emigrated to Canada in 1852 and first captained 
Canada against the United States the following year.[1] Together with Robert 
Waller from St George's Cricket Club, Pickering opened discussions for 
a possible tour in 1856 but financial problems meant that it was three 
years before the money could be raised. The English team required a guarantee 
of £600, which Pickering obtained through the Montreal Cricket Club, Hamilton 
Cricket Club and St George's Cricket Club.[2] The English team comprised 
six members of the All-England Eleven and six of the United All-England 
Eleven.[3] With George Parr as captain, the twelve players were effectively 
the cream of professional talent in the 1859 English cricket season that 
had just ended: Five matches were played, all against XXIIs, so none had 
first-class status. Three exhibition games were also played in which the 
12 England players divided and added five North Americans to each team 
to make up eleven-a-side matches. Including traveling time, the trip lasted 
two months and each English player (all professionals) cleared about £90, 
a sizeable sum at the time. The team's opponents were: Among their opponents 
were Harry Wright, a future pioneer of professional baseball, and Charles 
H. T. Collis, future Medal of Honor winner in the American Civil War. In 
addition to the exhibition matches they also had two excursions to view 
the Niagara Falls. The English side was exceedingly strong and would probably 
have beaten any twenty-two in England. There were excellent crowds for 
the first three matches but the weather in mid-October turned very cold 
and reduced the attendances at the last two. It was reported that the fielders 
wore gloves and overcoats in the last match.[16] A product of the tour 
was a book by Fred Lillywhite, who travelled as scorer, entitled The English 
Cricketers' Trip to Canada and the United States and published in 1860. 
A reprint of the book was published in 1980 with an introduction by Robin 
Marlar, including biographies of all of the players. For the general growth 
of cricket in the United States, it was most unfortunate that this pioneering 
tour occurred only 18 months before the American Civil War began. If the 
war had not broken out, it is highly likely that two or three follow-up 
tours might have been arranged in the early 1860s, thus building on the 
interest created by the initial trip. As it was, the enthusiasm for cricket 
faded in the war years and the troops on both sides adopted the embryonic 
game of baseball. When English teams resumed tours to America in 1868, 
not only did they have to try to rekindle the enthusiasm, but in baseball 
