American English has been enriched by expressions derived from the game 
of baseball. Sometimes referred to as "America's pastime," baseball has 
especially affected the language of other competitive activities such as 
politics and business. This is an alphabetical list of common English-language 
idioms based on baseball, excluding the extended metaphor referring to 
sex, and including illustrative examples for each entry. See also the Glossary 
of baseball for the jargon of the game itself, as used by participants, 
fans, reporters, announcers, and analysts of the game. "'They said Itanium 
would never be their fastest 32-bit processor, but it would be in the ballpark. 
The original x86 hardware execution mechanism was not in the ballpark. 
It was barely in the parking lot around the ballpark,' Brookwood said.' 
– Stephen Shankland The New York Times, 23 April 2003.[2] "Patrick Wiles, 
a vice president of First Pioneer Farm Credit in Riverhead, said the 'ballpark 
figure' for prime vineyard land on the North Fork is $50,000 to $60,000 
an acre, 'assuming the development rights have been sold.'" – Howard G. 
Goldberg, The New York Times, 18 July 2004.[3] MSNBC said Hillary knocked 
it “out of the park”. –New American Media, 27 August 2008.[4] "'But Boston 
Scientific also needs to hope that a rare event does not become magnified,' 
he said. 'It has to be pretty much batting a thousand for a time,' he said". 
— Reed Abelson, The New York Times, 27 July 2004.[6] headline: "Senator 
Jim Bunning Throws Beanball at America’s Unemployed" – Mason Lerner, The 
Faster Times, 26 February 2010.[7] "But Brown and Whitman didn’t swing 
at the questions, instead choosing to stick to a game of political beanball 
— trading jabs on Whitman’s housekeeper, a Brown aide’s “whore” remark 
and even verbal miscues. – Steven Luo, California Beat, 13 October 2010.[8] 
"For a listener who last heard the New Haven Symphony in the mid-60's, 
in a game but scrappy performance of Britten's War Requiem, its concert 
on Friday evening was a happy surprise. Under its music director, Michael 
Palmer, it sounded for the most part like a big-league band, at home in 
a big-league setting". — James Oestreich, The New York Times, 25 January 
1994.[10] "It's a Brand New Ballgame for Outsourcing Real Estate" — John 
C. Maher, National Real Estate Investor, 1 July 2005.[11] "Brand new ball 
game: New peanut program brings change" — Paul L. Hollis, Southwest Farm 
Press, 21 March 2002.[12] "The Washington Times' George Archibald reports 
that Gerald A. Reynolds, assistant secretary for civil rights in the Department 
of Education, has sent a long overdue brush-back letter to college and 
university officials concerning their odious and oppressive campus speech 
codes". — David Limbaugh,The Washington Times, August 19, 2003.[14] "One 
spokeswoman, Andrea Saul, has been throwing brushback pitches at reporters 
who write about Romney’s faith, asking if they would write similar stories 
about Jews". – Jeffrey Goldberg, Bloomberg News, June 18, 2012.[15] "Kinsley, 
who does come off as the stereotypical Los Angeles-hating East Coast wonk, 
said recently that because L.A. is the second biggest city in the country, 
'it's really bush league to care about where the writers are from.'"— Catherine 
Seipp, National Review, March 24, 2005.[17] "Tried on more than 1,400 patients 
for almost two years, it has proved effective for many kinds of pain in 
the muscles and around joints — charley horse, tennis elbow, stiff neck, 
torticollis ('wryneck'), whiplash injury, muscular rheumatism, and muscle 
pain resulting from slipped disks". — Time, 8 June 1959[19] Under the headline 
"Merrill's cleanup hitter: new position focuses on quality of research," 
it is stated that "at Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc., the "buy," "sell" and "hold" 
buck stops with William J. Genco".[21] Under the headline "Trimeris Gets 
a Cleanup Hitter," it is stated that "Yesterday, tiny drug developer Trimeris 
(Nasdaq: TRMS) announced that it finally found a permanent CEO to help 
get itself in order following the resignation of its former leader a year 
ago.[22] Referring to President George W. Bush: "There is a reason he is 
the current president and it is not just because of his Daddy or money 
— I think he makes a pretty solid cleanup hitter for the Republican Party 
and brought home the points made during the previous 4 days of the convention".[23] 
"Arson investigators sifted through the rubble of an Airdrie Stud barn 
today, but failed to determine the cause of a fire that killed 15 thoroughbred 
broodmares and yearlings Saturday night. The horses were worth more than 
$1 million, according to Brereton Jones, owner of the 3,000-acre (12 km2) 
stud farm. 'We do not have any reason to believe it was arson, but you 
just want to be sure you cover all the bases,' he said". — Associated Press, 
in The New York Times, 7 January 1985.[26] "Cisco’s FastHub 400 series 
has the bases covered".[27] "Because of my personal story, I'm very interested 
in illness. One thing we discovered as a family is that when you're thrown 
a curveball like cancer or multiple sclerosis, often people do not know 
what to do first". – Meredith Vieira, quoted by Jeff Chu, Time, 27 August 
2006.[29] "Desormeaux chalked up the latest loss, his second so close to 
the Triple Crown, to another twist in a life so full of them. 'Life throws 
curves,' he said, 'Some of us hit it, and some of us will sulk around. 
We've continued to hit the curveball'". – The New York Times, 8 June 2008.[30] 
"The city's three mayoral candidates finished Wednesday's political double 
header with a debate at First Congregational United Church for Christ. 
...The evening debate did not differ greatly from the luncheon forum that 
local Rotarians and Kiwanians hosted earlier in the day" — Andrew Edwards, 
Contra Costa Times, 21 October 2009[31] "Hillary Clinton is now down to 
her last out".[32] "If politics were baseball, former Massachusetts Gov. 
Mitt Romney might be down to his last out".[33] headline: "Extra Innings 
for the Cloned Food Debate" – Pallavi Gogoi, Bloomberg Businessweek, 2 
April 2007[35] headline: "Microsoft, Yahoo Game Going Into Extra Innings?" 
– Erika Morphy, E-Commerce Times, 5 June 2008[36] Under the headline, "Getting 
Past First Base," a writer asks: "How do you turn an initial contact with 
a prospect into a fully-fledged business relationship? It’s the essence 
of sales – but it’s an area where many people really struggle". — Ian Brodie, 
8 November 2008.[37] Also a sexual metaphor: first base/second base/third 
base/home run are widely used to describe certain stages of making out/having 
intercourse, though precisely which acts fall under which base appear to 
be regional idiom. First base can be simple kissing. headline: "Geithner: 
Tax reform debate in 'first inning'" — Bernie Becker, The Hill, 27 January 
2011.[38] headline: "Early Innings of a Banking Recovery" — Duncan Frearson, 
Smith Street Capital, July 13, 2010.[39] "Even if you haven’t stepped in 
the bucket yet, you may one day. So here are Be Better Guys’ Tips for Handling 
a Screw Up at Work" – Be Better Guys: A Guy's Guide to Getting a Life, 
17 June 2009.[40] Referring to the prospects of a high-tech company, a 
headline reads, "Is Netflix a Four-Bagger in the Making"?[41] – The Motley 
Fool, 6 October 2013. headline: "Natural Gas in Bear Market 'Grand Slam'" 
– Patti Domm, Market Insider, CNBC, 11 February 2011.[42] headline: "Boeing 
Hits Grand Slam with Four DoD Deals" – John Adams, GovconWire, 7 September 
2010.[43] "Tellem weighed in with a thoughtful back-page article in this 
Sunday's New York Times regarding the recent Congressional and mainstream 
media grandstanding over steroids". — Jay Jaffe, Futility Infielder, 5 
April 2005.[44] headline: "Stop the grandstanding on the debt ceiling!" 
— CNN Money, 5 January 2011.[45] "Opinions were varied and passionate, 
but there was no sniping, no partisan grandstanding." — Alex Williams, 
The New York Times, June 22, 2012.[46] “Sony once hit home runs, but now 
it’s lost its touch,” said Akihiko Jojima, an analyst and author of the 
book Sony’s Sickness. “Sony still makes competent products but they’re 
all just boring ground balls.” — Hiroko Tabuchi, New York Times, 28 March 
2010.[47] "Hauser would like to extend its three-year contract with Bristol-Myers, 
becoming a supplier of the material for semi-synthetic Taxol. 'I think 
this is just tough bargaining,' said Deborah Wardwell of Dain Bosworth 
Securities. 'It seems to suggest hardball tactics.'" — Milt Freudenheim, 
The New York Times, 10 January 2007.[49] headline: "Heavy-hitters line 
up for Hong Kong Tourism pitch".[50] headline: "Boeing uses him as its 
heavy hitter. As it's done with other troubled programs, the company is 
relying on Patrick Shanahan to get the 787 back on track" — Los Angeles 
Times, 24 February 2008.[51] headline: "UW Adds Heavy Hitters from High 
Tech and Biotech to Turn More Ideas Into Companies".[52] "11:55 AM: Kerry 
stumbled over the question of whether God is on America's side. But Edwards 
hit it out of the park with his anecdote about Abraham Lincoln saying America 
is on God's side. He is the more nimble debater and conversationalist". 
— Katherine Q. Seelye, The New York Times, 29 February 2004.[53] headline: 
"Treating Depression Can Be Hit or Miss" – Los Angeles Times, 3 August 
2009.[54] "Hit or Miss? Kim Kardashian’s T-Shirt Dress".[55] "HGTV caught 
on quickly, and is now carried in 90 million homes. The Food Network has 
been a home run as well, luring viewers interested in cooking". — Geraldine 
Fabrikant, The New York Times, 14 August 2006.[57] "It was Silver's later, 
15-month training period with the Apollo 15 astronauts, and that crew's 
brilliant geological performance on the lunar plain between the Apennine 
Mountains and Hadley Rille, a sinuous gorge, that, in Silver's words, "hit 
a home run."" — Marcy Drexler, Caltech News, 1999.[58] under the headline 
"Dana Milbank's Inside Baseball," a news story begins: "With a few deft 
strokes and in fewer than 25 inches, Dana Milbank draws behind-the-scenes 
portraits of Washington power with such dexterity and hilarity that his 
Washington Sketch column is a must-read for anyone who wants to know how 
politics in this city really works". – Brigid Schulte, The Washington Post, 
2 March 2010.[59] "I once had to hire a writer to create my firm’s brochure, 
because what I did was far too “inside baseball.” Meaning, too focused 
on the details only an insider could love and not enough on what the audience 
wanted to know".[60] "In spite of last winter's nice snowpack and a wet 
summer, here's the bad news about New Mexico's drought: It ain't over till 
it's over, and it ain't over". — Staci Matlock, The New Mexican, 9 October 
2005.[61] "Kay told CNN he is worried because he's hearing some of the 
same signals about Iran and its nuclear program that were heard as the 
Bush administration made its case for the war in Iraq. 'It's déjà vu all 
over again,' Kay said". — David Kay, former U.S. chief weapons inspector 
(quote).[63] "In the last two quarters, we knocked the cover off the ball. 
. . . We exceeded analysts' expectations on Wall Street and our own guidance 
in both quarters".[64] headline: "The American Patriot Program announces 
August leadoff hitters for its national campaign".[65] "The decision to 
place Ms. Obama centre stage in Denver is something of a gamble; rarely 
have the spouses of presidential candidates played leadoff hitter in such 
a high-stakes political exercise".[66] "Depp's performance came out of 
left field in The Curse of the Black Pearl; nobody had ever thought of 
channeling Keith Richards and Pepé Le Pew before". — Kent Williams, Isthmus: 
The Daily Page.[68] "When you've landed a tenure-track position at that 
university, you're playing in the major leagues."[69] "Over the last five 
years, Wall Street analysts have only been right once. They're below the 
Mendoza line, batting just 200. And they're misleading investors again" 
— Brit Ryle, Taipan Financial News, 13 December 2005. "He was the unexpected 
underdog who comes out of nowhere and starts landing one uppercut after 
another into the chins of a murderer’s [sic] row of 800-pound gorillas." 
— Andrew Leonard, Salon.com, 10 March 2008. Headline: "Here's The Murderers' 
Row Of Talent Bill Simmons Recruited For His New Site" — Noah Davis, Business 
Insider, 2 June 2011.[70] "'We're in the late innings for U.S. small-cap 
stocks,'" said Richard Bernstein, chief investment strategist at Merrill 
Lynch & Co." – Wall Street Journal, 31 December 2007.[73] Under the headline 
"Senate Dems go O-fer," it is reported: "The Senate just voted on whether 
to proceed with four budgets: the House 2012 budget, the Toomey budget, 
the Paul budget, and President Obama's 2012 proposal. All were voted down".[74] 
"The absence of any sharp new angle, any strong new drive in Mr. Roosevelt's 
messages reflected the fact that he and his Cabinet (only Messrs. Hull. 
Murphy, Woodring, Edison and Ickes were at hand) had been caught off-base 
with the rest of the world by the Hitler-Stalin deal, the sudden push for 
Poland". — Time, 3 September 1939.[76] "Lotte Ulbricht replied that Madame 
Yang was way off base. No one was demanding that oppressed nations live 
happily with their oppressors, she said, and added that Russia was, as 
always, 'wholeheartedly behind the revolutionary struggles of colonial 
peoples.'" — Time, 5 July 1963.[77] headline: "Barletta, 0-2, back on deck" 
– Roderick Random, Scranton Times, 30 May 2009.[79] lede: "With no one 
else as formidable, Republicans are pressuring the Hazleton mayor [Barletta] 
to run against the longtime Democratic congressman next year". – Scranton 
Times, 30 May 2009.[80] headline: "Loren French is On Deck to Speak to 
Us at EntConnect 2007!" – A Better Blogsite, 1 February 2007[81] "Organizations 
instead need a deep bench of players with varying capabilities and a clear 
strategy for advancing ideas one base at a time. That’s what puts runs 
on the scoreboard and delivers value to members or customers".[82] headline: 
"For RNA polymerase, it's one base at a time".[83] "In April 2005, after 
Mr. Jennings took leave of World News Tonight, as the program was then 
known, to be treated for lung cancer, Mr. Gibson was one of several anchors 
(including Ms. Sawyer and Elizabeth Vargas) who pinch-hit for him until 
his death in August 2005, and then continued to rotate in and out of Mr. 
Jennings’s empty chair for four months". — Bill Carter and Jacques Steinberg, 
The New York Times, 1 March 2007.[85] "The Republican Party pitched a shutout 
in the South in 2000 and 2004".[86] "'Eight U.S. attorneys who did not 
play ball with the political agenda of this administration were dropped 
from the team,' said Senate Democratic Whip Dick Durbin of Illinois".[90] 
headline: "CNN's Cooper Sympathizes With Homosexual Student in Softball 
Interview".[91] "On Wednesday's AC360, CNN's Anderson Cooper tossed softball 
questions at openly homosexual University of Michigan student body president 
Chris Armstrong". "To deal with frustration among holiday shoppers hunting 
for its Wii game console, Nintendo Co. and retailer GameStop Corp. are 
launching a rain check program". — Tribune wires, Chicago Tribune, 19 December 
2007.[95] "Another scheduled member of the party, Pat McKenna, White House 
doorkeeper for thirty-five years, was prevented from making the trip due 
to an illness in his immediate family, but the President said at his press 
conference today that he had given McKenna a rain check on the next cruise." 
— "Roosevelt starts for ocean cruise." The New York Times, April 30, 1938.[96] 
headline: "Muni Market Traders Keep Their Rally Caps On" – Patrick McGee, 
The Bond Buyer, 15 April 2011.[97] "Vincent B. Orange doesn’t see himself 
as an opportunist. Rather, he’s more of a 'relief pitcher' with the chops 
to push the District’s business goals, he said, after council member Harry 
Thomas Jr. relinquished control of the Committee on Economic Development 
while he fights a lawsuit accusing him of taking public funds for personal 
use".—The Washington Times, 9 June 2011.[98] "If the theater people won 
their point, it was not much of a point to win. The entire rhubarb, after 
all, was about nothing but money". — Time, 7 June 1963.[101] "'It was very 
clear right off the bat that the loss of Cdk5 made them have a much stronger 
associative memory,' Professor Bibb said". — Reuters, The New York Times, 
29 May 2007.[103] "And now, as we enter not only the best season for stocks 
in the calendar year, but also the very best three quarters in the four-year 
election cycle, you’d think you should just sit back and enjoy the ride, 
right? But I’m worried the market may be getting ready to throw us a screwball". 
– MarketWatch, 16 October 2010.[105] "With the duration [of bonds] tailwind 
on the wane, investors must literally scour the globe for opportunities, 
seeking coins and jewels rather than treasure chests. In baseball vernacular, 
investors must now aim to hit singles rather than swinging for the fences". 
– Anthony J. Crescenzi, Morningstar.com, 22 December 2010.[106] headline: 
"The president plays small ball" – Charles Krauthammer, The Washington 
Post, 26 January 2012.[107] headline: "In Need of a Game Change, Santorum 
Plays Small Ball" – Nate Silver, The New York Times, 17 March 2012.[108] 
headline: "First Responders Stepped Up to the Plate".[110] headline: "Pig 
Farmers Have Stepped Up to the Plate".[111] headline: "Everybody Struck 
Out in Marietta Teen Drinking Incident" – Atlanta Journal and Constitution, 
25 February 2010.[112] "The British bank Barclays has announced its next 
CEO. But Bob Diamond already seemingly has two strikes against him going 
in. One thing, he's an American. And number two, he's head of the company's 
investment banking arm". – American Public Media, "Marketplace", 7 September 
2010.[113] "I've swung and missed a lot in my hunt for vintage Levis".[114] 
Referring to the disappointing purchase of a living-room couch, "Todd: 
Hey batter, hey batter, sometimes when you’re looking for the rainbow curve 
away, you get the heater down the middle. Maybe that’s why you swung and 
missed".[115] "The 1988-2000 employment projections: how accurate were 
they? In the late 1980s, we projected future employment in scores of occupations 
for the 1988-2000 period. That future is now the past. See where we scored 
a hit, landed in the ballpark, and – now and then – swung and missed.[116] 
"These are opportunities that traders look for every day. That many of 
them noticed it and swung for the fences all at once is not collusion, 
it's just the sign of a huge softball coming right down the line".[117] 
An article titled "Hatteras Plans Switch-Hitting Ethernet" discusses a 
network switch that can operate either on fiber optic or copper wiring.[120] 
headline: "Ex-teammates take cuts at A-Rod".[121] headline: "Opponents 
Sure to Take Cuts at Stadium Votes in Anaheim Political Game"[122] "The 
News, you recall, took the collar as the 'failing newspaper' when the two 
sought Justice Department approval in 2000 to merge their business operations".[123] 
"Robert, it's been a while. I'd like to touch base with you next week to 
discuss our quarterly sales targets." headline: "President Obama's Wednesday 
NYC Triple Play." – Celeste Katz, New York Daily News, 26 April 2011.[125] 
lede on same story: "Brace yourself, New York City! President Obama is 
returning tomorrow for his third visit in less than a month, bringing the 
increasingly familiar swirl of traffic – and buckraking – that surrounds 
presidential campaigns". headline: "Cosmic Triple-Play: Asteroid Flyby, 
Fireball over Utah, Meteor Shower" – Charles Q. Choi, SPACE.com, 18 November 
2009.[126] "Carville also said he had not spoken with Hillary Clinton about 
Richardson's endorsement, but that he was outraged. 'I doubt if Gov. Richardson 
and I will be terribly close in the future,' he said, but 'I've had my 
say. . . . I got one in the wheelhouse and I tagged him.'"[127] "After 
Richardson whiffed on the question, Joe Biden parked it".[128] "Yahoo and 
MSN each whiffed on six questions. There was only one question that baffled 
all the search engines".[129] Under the headline "It's a Whole New Ballgame 
for Obama," it is stated that, "Barack Obama, we all know by now, is not 
an ideologue. But where his roots are planted is also nowhere near the 
progressive pendulum, particularly on domestic issues. Now he's got a playing 
field that suits his natural political conservatism". – Taylor Marsh, Huffington 
Post, 7 January 2011.[131] "In fact, on-demand applications are a whole 
‘nother ballgame — which is why personally I try to avoid the popular phrase 
software as a service (SaaS) since I feel it’s a phrase that’s born of 
the ‘nothing changes’ mindset". – Phil Wainewright, ZDNet, 16 March 2006.[132] 
