Since their discovery, anabolic steroids (AAS) have been widely used as 
performance-enhancing drugs to improve performance in sports, to improve 
one's physical appearance, as self-medication to recover from injury, and 
as an anti-aging aid. Use of anabolic steroids for purposes other than 
treating medical conditions is controversial and, in some cases, illegal. 
Major sports organizations have moved to ban the use of anabolic steroids. 
There is a wide range of health concerns for users. Legislation in many 
countries restricts and criminalizes AAS possession and trade. Performance-enhancing 
substances have been used for thousands of years in traditional medicine 
by societies around the world, with the aim of promoting vitality and strength.[1] 
The use of gonadal hormones pre-dates their identification and isolation. 
Medical use of testicle extract began in the late 19th century, while its 
effects on strength were still being studied.[2] In 1889, the 72-year-old 
Mauritian neurologist Charles-Édouard Brown-Séquard injected himself with 
an extract of dog and guinea pig testicles, and reported at a scientific 
meeting that these injections had led to a variety of beneficial effects. 
However, almost all experts, including some of Brown-Sequard's contemporaries, 
had agreed that these positive effects were induced by Brown-Séquard himself.[3] 
In 2002, a study replicating Brown-Séquard's method determined that the 
amount of testosterone obtained was too low to have any clinical effect.[4] 
Testosterone, the most active anabolic-androgenic steroid produced by Leydig 
cells in the testes, was first isolated in 1935 and chemically synthesized 
later in the same year. Synthetic derivatives of testosterone quickly followed. 
By the end of the following decade, both testosterone and its derivatives 
were applied with varying degrees of success for a number of medical conditions. 
It was not until the 1950s, however, that athletes began to discover that 
anabolic steroids could increase their muscle mass. According to sports 
physician John Ziegler, the first confirmed use of an anabolic steroid 
in an international athletic competition was at the weightlifting championships 
in Vienna in 1954, when the Russians weightlifters used testosterone.[5] 
Throughout the 1960s and 1970s, the use of anabolic steroids was confined 
largely to the professional levels of sport. In the Eastern bloc, programs 
of training went as far as forcing some athletes to take anabolic steroids.[6] 
In the United States, sports physicians, including Ziegler, and medical 
texts were still widely proclaiming that anabolic steroids were ineffective 
in helping athletes gain muscle. These doctors did acknowledge the usefulness 
of anabolic steroids for debilitated patients. The package insert for Dianabol, 
a common anabolic steroid used at the time, stated, "Anabolic steroids 
do not enhance athletic ability."[5] Despite these warnings, use of anabolic 
steroids began in competition bodybuilding, in track and field events, 
such as the shot put, and in other sports where performance depended on 
muscle strength or speed of recovery during training.[7] At the end of 
the 1960s, Science published a study on the effects of Dianabol on athletes. 
This open label study, conducted by J.P. O'Shea and colleagues at Oregon 
State University, confirmed the muscle building effects of anabolic steroids 
on athletes that followed a high protein diet.[8] Two years later, O'Shea 
replicated the results in a double blind design.[5][9] At the beginning 
of the 1970s, sporting organizations, including the IOC and NCAA, declared 
the use of anabolic steroids unethical, but with no effective means of 
testing athletes, the issue remained academic.[5] It is difficult to determine 
what percent of the population have used anabolic steroids due to the fact 
that most studies are based on self-reporting. Studies in the United States 
have shown anabolic steroid users tend to be mostly middle-class heterosexual[citation 
needed] men with a median age of about 25 who are noncompetitive bodybuilders 
and non-athletes. They cite using the drugs for cosmetic purposes.[10] 
Another study found that non-medical use of anabolic steroids among college 
students was at, or less than, 1%.[11] According to a 2006 survey, 78.4% 
of steroid users were noncompetitive bodybuilders and non-athletes. About 
13% reported unsafe injection practices such as reusing needles, sharing 
needles, and sharing multi-dose vials,[12] though a 2007 study found sharing 
of needles was extremely uncommon (less than 1%) among individuals using 
anabolic steroids for non-medical purposes.[13] Another 2007 study found 
that 74% of non-medical anabolic steroid users had secondary college degrees 
and more had completed college and less had failed to complete high school 
than is expected from the general population.[13] The same study found 
that individuals using anabolic steroids for non-medical purposes had a 
higher employment rate and a higher household income than the general population.[13] 
Anabolic steroid users research the drugs they are taking more than other 
controlled-substance users; however, the major sources consulted by steroid 
users include friends, non-medical handbooks, and fitness magazines, which 
can provide questionable or inaccurate information.[14] According to a 
1998 study,[15] 2.7% of middle school (age 9-13) students in the United 
States reported using steroids, with 2.8% being female and 2.6% being male. 
A 1988 study found that 6.6% of 12th grade (17 or 18 years old) students 
use or have used steroids.[16] Anabolic steroid users tend to be disillusioned 
by the portrayal of anabolic steroids as deadly in the media and in politics.[17] 
According to one study, anabolic steroid users also distrust their physicians, 
and in the sample, 56% had not disclosed their anabolic steroid use to 
their physicians.[18] Another 2007 study showed that while 66% of individuals 
using anabolic steroids for non-medical purposes were willing to seek medical 
supervision for their steroid use, 58% lacked trust in their physicians, 
92% felt that the medical community's knowledge of non-medical anabolic 
steroid use was lacking, and 99% felt that the public has an exaggerated 
view of the side effects of anabolic steroid use.[13] A 2006 study has 
showed that long-term anabolic steroid users were more likely to have symptoms 
of muscle dysmorphia and also showed stronger endorsement of more traditional 
male roles.[19] Anabolic steroids have been used by athletes in many professional 
sports, including cricket, track and field, weightlifting, bodybuilding, 
shot put, cycling, baseball, wrestling, mixed martial arts, boxing, and 
football. Such use is prohibited by many of the professional and amateur 
associations that organize these sports. Anabolic steroid use occurs among 
adolescents, especially by those participating in competitive sports. It 
has been suggested that the prevalence of use among high-school students 
in the U.S. may be as high as 2.7%.[20] Male students used anabolic steroids 
more frequently than female students and, on average, those who participated 
in sports used steroids more often than those who did not. In 1992, NFL 
football player Lyle Alzado died from brain cancer, which he said was caused 
by his steroid use.[21] Although steroids have been known to cause liver 
cancer,[22] there is no published evidence that anabolic steroids cause 
either brain cancer or the specific type of T-cell lymphoma that caused 
Alzado's death. However, Alzado also stated that he felt addicted to steroids 
and that he had become increasingly violent.[21][23] Arnold Schwarzenegger 
admitted to using anabolic steroids for many years during his bodybuilding 
career, although steroids were legal in the US during the time he used 
them.[24] In 1997, he underwent surgery to correct a heart defect. Some 
have assumed this was because of his use of anabolic steroids.[25] Although 
the use of anabolic steroids can sometimes cause enlargement and thickening 
of the left ventricle, Schwarzenegger was born with a congenital genetic 
defect in which his heart had a bicuspid aortic valve, a condition that 
rendered his aortic valve with two cusps instead of three, which can occasionally 
cause problems later in life.[26] The use of anabolic steroids is banned 
by all major sporting associations, including the International Olympic 
Committee, Major League Baseball, the National Football League, the National 
Basketball Association, the National Hockey League, WWE, ICC, ITF, FIFA, 
World Rugby, FINA, UEFA, the European Athletic Association, and the Brazilian 
Football Confederation. Anabolic steroids are controlled substances in 
many countries, including Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the Netherlands 
(NL), the United Kingdom (UK), and the United States (U.S.). The Olympics,[27] 
the National Basketball Association,[28] the National Hockey League,[29] 
and the National Football League also ban the use of anabolic steroids.[30] 
The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) maintains the list of performance-enhancing 
substances used by many major sports associations and includes all anabolic 
agents, which includes all anabolic steroids and precursors as well as 
all hormones and related substances.[31][32] Spain passed an anti-doping 
law that created a national anti-doping agency.[33] Italy passed a law 
in 2000 where penalties range up to three years in prison if an athlete 
has tested positive for banned substances.[34] In 2006, Russian President 
Vladimir Putin signed into law ratification of the International Convention 
Against Doping in Sport, which would encourage cooperation with WADA. Many 
other countries have similar legislation prohibiting anabolic steroids 
in sports, including Denmark,[35] France,[36] the Netherlands,[37] and 
Sweden.[38] The legal status of anabolic steroids varies from country to 
country. In the U.S., anabolic steroids are listed as Schedule III controlled 
substances under the Controlled Substances Act, which makes the possession 
of such substances without a prescription a federal crime punishable by 
up to seven years in prison.[39] In Canada, anabolic steroids and their 
derivatives are part of the Controlled drugs and substances act and are 
Schedule IV substances, meaning that it is illegal to obtain or sell them 
without a prescription. However, possession is not punishable, a consequence 
reserved for schedule I, II or III substances. Those guilty of buying or 
selling anabolic steroids in Canada can be imprisoned for up to 18 months. 
Importing or exporting anabolic steroids also carry similar penalties.[40] 
Anabolic steroids are also illegal without prescription in Australia,[41] 
Argentina, Brazil, and Portugal,[42] and are listed as Schedule 4 Controlled 
Drugs in the United Kingdom. The United States first considered classifying 
anabolic steroids as a controlled substance in the late 1980s after a controversy 
over Ben Johnson's victory at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul. During 
deliberations, the American Medical Association (AMA), Drug Enforcement 
Administration (DEA), Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and the National 
Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) all opposed listing anabolic steroids as 
controlled substances. These organizations argued that use of these drugs 
does not lead to the physical or psychological dependence required for 
such scheduling under the Controlled Substance Act. However, anabolic steroids 
were added to Schedule III of the Controlled Substances Act in the Anabolic 
Steroid Control Act of 1990.[43] The same act also introduced more stringent 
controls with higher criminal penalties for offenses involving the illegal 
distribution of anabolic steroids and human growth hormone. By the early 
1990s, after non-medical use of anabolic steroids was criminalized in the 
U.S., several pharmaceutical companies stopped manufacturing or marketing 
the products. Some brand names included Ciba, Searle, and Syntex. In the 
Controlled Substances Act, anabolic steroids are defined to be any drug 
or hormonal substance chemically and pharmacologically related to testosterone 
(other than estrogens, progestins, and corticosteroids) that promote muscle 
growth. The act was amended by the Anabolic Steroid Control Act of 2004, 
which added prohormones to the list of controlled substances, with effect 
from January 20, 2005.[39] In the United Kingdom, all anabolic steroids 
are illegal, anabolic steroids are classified as class C drugs for their 
abuse potential, which puts them in the same class as benzodiazepines. 
In 2008, a study published in the Lancet suggested that anabolic steroids 
are less dangerous than most other illegal substances, and some legal ones.[44] 
In countries where anabolic steroids are illegal or controlled, the majority 
of steroids are obtained illegally through black market trade.[45][46] 
These steroids are usually manufactured in other countries, and therefore 
must be smuggled across international borders. In September 2007, the DEA 
completed an 18-month international investigation of illicit anabolic steroid 
use in which 124 arrests were made. The investigation targeted more than 
25 Chinese companies which produced raw materials for producing steroids 
and human growth hormone. The companies exported raw products to Mexico, 
where the consumer products were packaged. The investigation, dubbed "Operation 
Gear Grinder," was the largest anabolic steroid operation in the United 
States, and involved China, Mexico, Canada, Australia, Germany, and Thailand, 
among other countries.[citation needed] The investigation also focused 
on online message boards where advice was given on how to use anabolic 
steroids. The DEA also intercepted thousands of e-mails in the course of 
the investigation. The DEA has stated that the e-mails intercepted were 
compiled into a massive database of names which could lead to months or 
years of future arrests of steroid users.[47][48][49] Anabolic steroids 
are produced in pharmaceutical laboratories, but in nations where stricter 
laws are present, they are also produced in small homemade laboratories.[48] 
Common problems associated with illegal drug trades, such as chemical substitutions, 
cutting, and diluting, affect illegal anabolic steroids, so that when they 
reach the distribution level, the quality may be compromised and the drugs 
may be dangerous. In the 1990s, most U.S. producers such as Ciba, Searle 
and Syntex stopped making and marketing anabolic steroids within the U.S. 
However, in many other regions, particularly Eastern Europe, they are still 
mass-produced. Anabolic steroids are still in wide use for veterinary purposes, 
and often contain the same components as those prepared for humans, but 
without the same quality control.[50] These can also be dangerous, as they 
may have been produced and handled in cruder and less sterile environments.[51] 
In the U.S., Canada, and Europe, illicit steroids are purchased just like 
any other illegal drug. Dealers are able to obtain the steroids from a 
number of sources. Illegal anabolic steroids are sometimes sold at gyms, 
competitions, and through the mail, but may also be obtained through pharmacists, 
veterinarians, and physicians.[52] In addition, a significant number of 
counterfeit products are sold as anabolic steroids, particularly via mail 
order from websites posing as overseas pharmacies. In the U.S., black market 
importation continues from Mexico, Thailand, and other countries where 
