Eric Vaughn Show (/ˈʃaʊ/; May 19, 1956 – March 16, 1994) was a Major League 
Baseball player who played for most of his career with the San Diego Padres. 
The pitcher holds the Padres record for most career wins, and he was a 
member of the first Padres team to play in the World Series. On September 
11, 1985, he surrendered Pete Rose's record-breaking 4,192nd career hit. 
Show's later life was affected by drug abuse. He was found dead in his 
room at a drug and alcohol rehabilitation facility in 1994. Eric Show was 
born in Riverside, California. He attended the University of California, 
Riverside, where he majored in physics and played college baseball for 
the Highlanders from 1976–1978. In 1977, Show won a Division II College 
World Series with the team.[1][2][3] Show made his debut in late September 
1981, and the following year went 10–6 while splitting time between the 
starting rotation and bullpen. In 1983 he won 15 games. In 1984, he followed 
with a 15–9 record. However, he struggled in the postseason, going a combined 
0–2 with a 12.38 earned run average in three games. On September 11, 1985, 
Show became famous for giving up Pete Rose's 4,192nd hit, which surpassed 
the all-time career hits record that had long been held by Ty Cobb. During 
the delay to honor Rose, Show sat on the mound with his arms folded.[1] 
In The Ballplayers: Baseball's Ultimate Biographical Reference, Mike Shatzkin 
wrote that Show was "disgruntled (perhaps rightly so) at the lengthy interruption 
of the contest."[4] Padre Garry Templeton later called Show's actions "bush."[5] 
Then Show got into a dugout shoving match with left fielder Carmelo Martínez 
over a ball that fell for a single and led to the game-winning run. Finally, 
Show refused to stay to answer the post-game questions, leaving his teammates 
to criticize him in his absence. "I'm tired of hearing about his unlucky 
luck," said Tim Flannery. "That's been at the root of the problem all year. 
If something goes wrong, he quits. That's why runs aren't scored for him. 
Guys don't want to play for him. One guy got tired of hearing it."[5] Before 
the game, when Show had been asked about the possibility of giving up "The 
Hit", he responded: "I guess it doesn't mean as much to me as it does to 
other baseball enthusiasts. I mean, in the eternal scope of things, how 
much does this matter? I don't like to say this, but I don't care. ... 
Don't get me wrong. I'm certainly not putting down Pete. It's a fantastic 
accomplishment."[5] "Gosh, he felt so bad after that, and he didn't know 
how to articulate it," said teammate Dave Dravecky. "Sometimes when you're 
brilliant like he was, the simplest of things are the hardest of things 
to express."[1] Show later offered, "We have a choice – to think or not 
to think – and I've come to the conclusion that most of these guys don't 
want to think about anything but baseball, and I'm kind of ostracized for 
that."[1] On July 7, 1987, Show hit the year's eventual National League 
MVP, Andre Dawson of the Chicago Cubs, in the left cheekbone with a fastball 
during a game. Dawson had homered in three of his last five plate appearances 
at that point, and the Cubs reacted with a bench-clearing brawl. Show and 
his manager (and former Cub), Larry Bowa, later denied that the pitch was 
purposeful, while Bowa acknowledged that he could understand why the Cubs 
would think it was.[6] Show made his last appearance on the National League 
leaderboard in 1988, a season in which he went 16–11 with 13 complete games 
and pitched 234 2⁄3 innings. In June 1989, Show underwent back surgery 
and then received cortisone injections for ongoing back discomfort. Show 
showed signs of drug addiction in his later career, and some of his teammates 
suspected that the issues had started as Show attempted to relieve his 
back pain. By 1990, Show had lost his regular spot in San Diego's rotation. 
The Padres did not pick up his option and bought out his contract for $250,000.[7] 
Though Show had become known for his tardiness and confrontations with 
teammates and management in San Diego, the Oakland Athletics had taken 
risks on troubled players before. They signed Show as a free agent in 1990.[8] 
Show also played in 1990–91 with the Mayaguez Indians of the Puerto Rican 
Winter League. Show's episodes of erratic behavior began to involve law 
enforcement by 1991. He was arrested by the police in downtown San Diego 
while yelling that someone was trying to kill him. Placed inside a police 
car, he kicked out the window and fled on foot. He was apprehended later 
that day, and he admitted to having used crystal methamphetamine. Show 
showed up later that year at the Oakland A's training camp with bandaged 
hands; reports had been made of his acting oddly inside an adult bookstore, 
and Show tried to flee from police, cutting his hands on a barbed wire 
fence. Oakland released Show after 1991, and he never appeared in professional 
baseball again.[8] Within baseball, Show's intellectual interests set him 
apart. Flannery said that most baseball players were singularly focused 
on baseball, while Show enjoyed discussing subjects like politics and economics. 
The pitcher was also a born-again Christian and a jazz musician who was 
known to play guitar with the hotel lounge bands during team road trips. 
He was involved in real estate and marketing, and he owned a music store.[8] 
In 1984, Show revealed that he was a member of the John Birch Society. 
When people asked whether Show's membership in the far-right organization 
indicated that he was racist, teammate Tony Gwynn defended Show against 
such charges. Show's agent, Arn Tellem, said that his membership in the 
group was part of his search for answers about how the world worked.[8] 
After Show gave up Rose's record-breaking hit, Graig Nettles said, "The 
Birch Society is going to expel Eric for making a Red famous."[5] Show 
was married to Cara Mia Niederhouse, who he had met while playing in a 
summer college baseball league in Kansas. They did not have any children.[8] 
After his retirement from baseball, Show continued to struggle with drug 
abuse. After a month-long stay at a drug rehabilitation center in Dulzura, 
California, Show checked out of the facility on March 14, 1994. He called 
the center the next night, admitted to having used alcohol, heroin, and 
cocaine, and asked to come back for more treatment. He was found dead in 
his room at the treatment center on the morning of March 16.[1][8][9] Dravecky 
delivered the eulogy at Show's funeral.[8] He was buried at Olivewood Cemetery 
