Eric Thomas Bolling[2] (born March 2, 1963) is a conservative American 
television personality and author who specializes in financial news and 
political commentary. Bolling is the co-host of Fox News Channel's early 
evening talk show The Five. He has occupied numerous roles as a commentator 
on financial issues for television, most notably for Fox News. Bolling 
took over as host of the Fox Business Channel news program Cashin' In, 
replacing fellow FBC anchor Cheryl Casone, who hosted the program from 
September 2009 until January 2013. In 2016, Bolling published his first 
literary work Wake Up America[3], which became an instant New York Times 
best seller. Bolling was born in Chicago and graduated grade school from 
Queen of All Saints Basilica followed by high school at Loyola Academy. 
In 1984, he graduated from Rollins College in Winter Park, Florida with 
a BA degree in economics, and was awarded a fellowship to Duke University's 
School of Public Policy. He was drafted in the 22nd round of the 1984 Major 
League Baseball Draft by the Pittsburgh Pirates and was assigned to their 
affiliate in the rookie-level Gulf Coast League. His baseball career was 
cut short by a torn rotator cuff injury.[1] Despite his claim to being 
a major prospect, Bolling's only professional statistics show a .182 lifetime 
batting average in only 12 plate appearances in the Rookie League. Bolling 
was a commodities trader[1] on the New York Mercantile Exchange. He specialized 
in trading natural gas, crude oil, gold, and other commodities. After serving 
five years on the board of directors at the NYMEX (now CME Group), Bolling 
became a strategic adviser to the exchange's board of directors. He was 
included in Trader Monthly's Top 100 in 2005 and 2006. Bolling was the 
recipient of the Maybach Man of the Year Award at the Trader Monthly Awards, 
January 17, 2007.[4] Bolling was involved in developing CNBC's Fast Money. 
Bolling left CNBC in August 2007 and moved to the new Fox Business Network 
as one of the network's financial analysts. He hosted the business show 
Happy Hour, which ran opposite Fast Money in the 5 p.m. time slot. In an 
on-air incident in June 2011, Bolling was mocking President Barack Obama's 
decision to meet with Gabon's President Ali Bongo Ondimba in the White 
House. Bolling remarked, "Guess who's coming to dinner? A dictator." He 
then went on to also criticize Obama for allowing rapper Common to appear 
in the White House a few weeks before, exclaiming "it's not the first time 
he's had a hoodlum in the hizzouse." Progressive group Media Matters immediately 
criticized Bolling, saying "Calling the president of Gabon and Common 'hoods 
in the hizzy' is not colorful commentary, it is overt racism." Bolling 
at first defended himself on Twitter claiming that people were baselessly 
accusing him because he worked for Fox News. However, he eventually apologized 
for the comments he made, saying, "On Friday, we did a story about the 
President meeting with the president of Gabon. We got a little fast and 
loose with the language, and we know it's been interpreted as being disrespectful, 
and for that, I'm sorry."[5] Bolling serves as a host of The Five on the 
Fox News Channel, a roundtable discussion of the top political and cultural 
stories of the day. Bolling and then co-host political pundit Bob Beckel 
were known to take strong opposing positions on issues, positions that 
lead to heated exchanges. The two, however, have developed a mutual respect 
and friendship, and Bolling perhaps saved Beckel's life in 2011 when he 
performed the Heimlich maneuver on him at a local restaurant.[6] Bolling 
also serves as guest host on many of the most popular Fox News opinion 
shows such as: The O'Reilly Factor, Hannity, Fox & Friends, and previously 
The Glenn Beck Show. On a 2014 broadcast of The Five, Bolling jokingly 
asked if the mission of Maj. Mariam al-Mansouri, a female pilot from the 
United Arab Emirates who led attacks against ISIS in Syria, qualified as 
"boobs on the ground."[7] Bolling apologised for his remarks, saying that 
he "got the look" from his wife after his comments were aired. On the broadcast 
the following day, he said: "I said sorry to my wife and I apologize to 
all of you as well and I just want to make that very clear."[8] In a Fox 
Nation blog post published on February 5, 2015, Bolling wrote that "radical 
Muslim jihadists killed thousands of people. Last month!" while "zero" 
were killed in the name of Christianity, Judaism and Scientology.[9] Bolling 
and his wife Adrienne have one son, Eric Chase. Bolling is Catholic.[10] 
