Anaheim Angels (1999–2000) The Erie SeaWolves are an American professional 
baseball team based in Erie, Pennsylvania. They compete in Minor League 
Baseball (MiLB) as a member of the Eastern League Western Division, serving 
as the Double-A affiliate of the Detroit Tigers. The team was founded in 
1989 and began playing in Erie for the 1995 season. The SeaWolves currently 
play their home games at UPMC Park in downtown Erie, a part of the Louis 
J. Tullio Plaza along with Erie Insurance Arena and the Warner Theatre. 
The "SeaWolves" name refers to the city's location along Lake Erie as well 
as their original affiliation with the Pittsburgh Pirates. "Sea wolf" was 
a historical epithet for sailors who engaged in piracy.[1] Coincidentally, 
the "Pirates" moniker originated with the Pittsburgh Alleghenys' pursuit 
of second-baseman and Erie native, Lou Bierbauer, in 1891. Bierbauer started 
his career with the Philadelphia Athletics of the American Association, 
later joining the Brooklyn Ward's Wonders of the newfound Players' League 
for the 1890 season. When the Players' League folded in 1891, most of the 
members went back to their former National League or American Association 
clubs. However, Bierbauer never signed a contract to return to the Athletics, 
and the Alleghenys were determined to sign him before other teams noticed. 
Ned Hanlon, manager of the Alleghenys, braved the icy conditions of Presque 
Isle during a snowstorm to commit Bierbauer. When the Athletics learned 
about this secret deal, they objected to Bierbauer's signing and demanded 
his return to their club. An official with the American Association also 
objected to Bierbauer's contract with the Alleghenys, calling their actions 
"piratical." Yet, the league ruled in favor of the Alleghenys, and they 
acquired Bierbauer as a free agent. Soon afterward, both players and their 
fans referred to the team as the "Pittsburgh Pirates." In 1891, the club 
officially rebranded as the "Pirates," making light of their critics.[2] 
On June 20, 1995, the Erie SeaWolves defeated the Jamestown Jammers in 
their inaugural game in Erie. José Guillén, now a Major League Baseball 
alumnus, hit the decisive home-run for the team.[3] The SeaWolves club 
started in 1989 as the Welland Pirates, based in Welland, Ontario as a 
member of the short-season New York–Penn League. The team played at Welland 
Stadium from 1989 to 1994 and were affiliated with the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
When the Welland Pirates relocated to Erie in 1995, they were rebranded 
as the "Erie SeaWolves." The relocation of the team from Welland to Erie 
forced the Frontier League incarnation of the Erie Sailors to relocate 
to Johnstown, Pennsylvania where they became the Johnstown Steal (this 
team is now known as the Florence Freedom, based in Florence, Kentucky). 
Before that, there was another team called the Erie Sailors which played 
in the New York - Penn League. However, they relocated to Wappingers Falls, 
New York (becoming the Hudson Valley Renegades) because the team's owner 
Marvin Goldklang did not upgrade Ainsworth Field to Major League Baseball 
specifications. Once the civic government secured an $8 million grant from 
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to build UPMC Park (then known as Jerry 
Uht Park) the Welland Pirates moved to Erie.[4] While Erie lacked affiliated 
baseball in 1994, the city fielded an independent baseball franchise in 
the Frontier League and reused the "Sailors" name. The SeaWolves succeed 
various Erie-based baseball franchises, namely every version of the Erie 
Sailors (the New York–Penn League franchise is now called the State College 
Spikes). The SeaWolves served as a Pittsburgh Pirates affiliate from 1995 
to 1998. In 1999, the Double-A Eastern League added two expansion franchises, 
with Erie gaining one of them. The team joined the Eastern League after 
it moved up from the Short-Season A level to the Double-A level. Therefore, 
the current SeaWolves organization is considered a continuation of the 
former one even though it changed classes. Minor League Baseball allowed 
Erie to keep their New York–Penn League records and history as a member 
of the Eastern League. Subsequently, the Mahoning Valley Scrappers replaced 
them in the New York-Penn League, which is officially considered an expansion 
franchise rather than a continuation of the SeaWolves. The SeaWolves became 
an affiliate of the Anaheim Angels after moving to the Double-A level. 
The team switched to the Detroit Tigers in 2001, with whom they continue 
to be affiliated. When the SeaWolves began play in Erie in 1995, the team 
was owned by Palisades Baseball. In 2003, Palisades sold the team to Mandalay 
Baseball Properties, the owner of multiple Minor League Baseball teams 
including the Dayton Dragons and Frisco RoughRiders. On March 27, 2015, 
Fernando Aguirre was introduced as the owner of the SeaWolves. Aguirre, 
the retired CEO and Chairman of Chiquita Brands International, purchased 
the team from Mandalay Baseball Properties for an undisclosed amount and 
announced his intent to keep the team in Erie.[5] The Erie SeaWolves' primary 
colors are black, red, white, gray, and yellow. The primary logo comprises 
a stylized "pirate wolf" superimposed over two crossed baseball bats complete 
with sword hilts. The "Erie SeaWolves" wordmark is centered above in white, 
black, and yellow. The team has a secondary logo featuring a weathered 
black flag on a "bat sword," charged with a red letter "E." This emblem 
alludes to Erie's nickname, the "Flagship City," referring to the Flagship 
Niagara that Commodore Oliver Hazard Perry commanded during his 1813 victory 
over the British Royal Navy in the Battle of Lake Erie.[1] The home uniforms 
include a black cap charged with the "bandanna wolf" logo and white jerseys 
featuring black piping. The "SeaWolves" wordmark is centered across the 
front in black letters with red outline and the crossed "bat sword" logo 
on the left sleeve. The away uniforms feature a gray jersey with black 
piping, the "Erie" wordmark in red with black outline, and the crossed 
"bat sword" logo on the left sleeve. The alternate jersey is red with black 
piping and includes the "Erie" wordmark in white with black outline. The 
"tricorne wolf" logo is centered on the left sleeve.[1] Fort the 2014 season, 
the SeaWolves added a black, white, and red panel cap with a black alternate 
jersey to match. Both include the "pirate wolf" logo. The Erie SeaWolves' 
official mascot is an anthropomorphic, gray canidae named C. Wolf. He wears 
the team's official red alternate jersey with a pirate hat, a red and white 
bandana, and an eye patch. His friends include Paws (the Detroit Tigers' 
official mascot) as well as three anthropomorphic sausages from the Erie 
meat producer, Smith's Provisions: Kenny Kiełbasa, Herbie Hot Dog, and 
Santino the Italian Sausage.[6] In 2012, the SeaWolves introduced a new 
mascot named Perry (presumably after Oliver Hazard Perry), a nine-foot 
inflatable fish, to work alongside C. Wolf. The name was decided in a fan 
poll.[7] "Buck Night" is a highly celebrated promotion by the Erie SeaWolves 
at UPMC Park. It is held several times each season, allowing fans who have 
paid for reserved seats to purchase specified food items for only $1.00 
each.[8] The menu includes hot dogs, popcorn, soft drinks, and American-made 
beer.[9] The Erie SeaWolves engage in many philanthropic efforts throughout 
Erie and its surrounding communities. Key team initiatives include UPMC 
Health Plan Paint the Park Pink Weekend to benefit local cancer charities, 
Northwest Savings Bank Gloves for Kids equipment drive, and Sensory-Friendly 
Day at the Ballpark in partnership with the Autism Society of Northwest 
Pennsylvania. The team also sponsors youth sports and education programs 
through the SeaWolves Community Fund. On September 16, 2015, the Erie SeaWolves 
earned the Erie Times-News Commitment to Erie Award for community service 
by a business with 50 or fewer employees.[10] Pitchers Catchers Infielders 
Outfielders Manager Coaches 7-day disabled list * On Detroit Tigers 40-man 
roster # Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve list ‡ Restricted list § Suspended 
list † Temporary inactive list Roster updated November 10, 2016 Transactions 
