William Earnest "Ernie" Harwell (January 25, 1918 – May 4, 2010) was an 
American sportscaster, known for his long career calling play-by-play of 
Major League Baseball games. For 55 seasons, 42 of them with the Detroit 
Tigers, Harwell called the action on radio and/or television. In January 
2009, the American Sportscasters Association ranked Harwell 16th on its 
list of Top 50 Sportscasters of All Time.[1] Ernie Harwell grew up in Atlanta, 
Georgia, working in his youth as a paperboy for the Atlanta Georgian; one 
of his customers was writer Margaret Mitchell. An avid baseball fan from 
an early age, Harwell became visiting batboy for the Atlanta Crackers of 
the Southern Association at the age of five, and never had to buy a ticket 
to get into a baseball game again. At sixteen he began working as a regional 
correspondent for The Sporting News. Harwell attended Emory University, 
where he was a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity and helped 
edit The Emory Wheel. After graduating, Harwell worked as a copy editor 
and sportswriter for the Atlanta Constitution. In 1943, he began announcing 
games for the Crackers on WSB radio, after which he served four years in 
the United States Marine Corps.[2] In 1948, Harwell became the only announcer 
in baseball history to be traded for a player when the Brooklyn Dodgers' 
general manager, Branch Rickey, traded catcher Cliff Dapper to the Crackers 
in exchange for breaking Harwell's broadcasting contract. (Harwell was 
brought to Brooklyn to substitute for regular Dodger announcer Red Barber, 
who was hospitalized with a bleeding ulcer.) Harwell broadcast for the 
Dodgers through 1949, the New York Giants from 1950-53, and the Baltimore 
Orioles from 1954-59. Early in his career, he also broadcast The Masters 
golf tournament,[3] as well as pro and college football.[4] Harwell joined 
the Tigers' broadcast crew in 1960, replacing Van Patrick. George Kell, 
who had begun calling Tigers games with Patrick in 1959, was instrumental 
in bringing Harwell to Detroit. "George called and said, 'I recommended 
you and the Tigers asked me to get in touch with you.'" Harwell said. "I 
came and that was it." Harwell shared TV and radio duties with Kell through 
1963, then with Bob Scheffing in 1964. He began working radio exclusively 
in 1965, teaming with Gene Osborn for two seasons and then with Ray Lane 
from 1967-72. In 1973, Paul Carey replaced Lane and joined Harwell to form 
the Tigers' best-known and longest-lasting radio team, which lasted until 
the end of the 1991 season. On December 19, 1990, the Tigers and radio 
station WJR announced that the station wanted to go in a "new direction" 
and that the 1991 season would be Harwell's last, as his contract was "non-renewed".[5] 
(Carey then announced that he had already planned to retire after the 1991 
season, and that the decision was unrelated to Harwell's contract situation.) 
Fans across Michigan and throughout the baseball world were outraged, but 
the ballclub and the radio station (who eventually wound up blaming each 
other for the decision) stood firm: "[Harwell's situation is] not going 
to change no matter how much clamor is made over it," said team president 
Bo Schembechler. Rick Rizzs was hired away from the Seattle Mariners to 
replace Harwell in 1992, teaming with Bob Rathbun. Harwell worked a part-time 
schedule for the California Angels in 1992. The following year, the Tigers 
were purchased by Mike Ilitch, who made it one of his first priorities 
to bring Harwell back. In 1993 Harwell teamed with Rizzs and Rathbun on 
the WJR broadcasts, calling play-by-play of the middle innings in each 
game. From 1994-98, Harwell called television broadcasts for the Tigers 
on PASS Sports and later WKBD-TV. In 1999, he resumed full-time radio duties 
with the team, swapping roles with Frank Beckmann (who had replaced Rizzs 
in the radio booth following the 1994 season), teaming with analyst Jim 
Price, and continuing in that role even as the team's radio rights changed 
from WJR to WXYT in 2001. During spring training in 2002, Harwell announced 
that he would retire at the end of the season; his final broadcast came 
on September 29, 2002. Dan Dickerson, who had joined Harwell and Price 
in 2000, took over as the Tigers' lead radio voice. Nationally, Harwell 
broadcast two All-Star Games (1958, 1961) and two World Series (1963, 1968) 
for NBC Radio, numerous ALCS and ALDS for CBS Radio and ESPN Radio, and 
the CBS Radio Game of the Week from 1992 to 1997. He also called the 1984 
World Series locally for the Tigers and WJR. Harwell's television broadcast 
for the Giants of the third and final game of the 1951 National League 
tie-breaker series, which ended with a homerun by the Giants' Bobby Thompson, 
was broadcast nationally on NBC. Following his retirement, Harwell came 
back briefly in 2003 to call a Wednesday Night Baseball telecast on ESPN, 
as part of that network's "Living Legends" series of guest announcers.[6] 
In 2005, Harwell guested for an inning on the Fox network's coverage of 
the All-Star Game (which was held in Detroit that year), as well as an 
inning on the ESPN Radio broadcast. For Game 3 of the 2006 American League 
Division Series between the Tigers and New York Yankees, he provided guest 
commentary on ESPN's telecast for two innings, called an inning of play-by-play 
on the Tigers' radio flagship WXYT, and guested for an inning on ESPN Radio. 
Harwell also called one inning of Game 1 of the 2006 World Series for WXYT. 
Harwell served as a guest color commentator for two Tiger games on FSN 
Detroit on May 24 and 25, 2007. Harwell worked the telecasts (alongside 
play-by-play man Mario Impemba) as a substitute for regular analyst Rod 
Allen, who took the games off to attend his son's high school graduation. 
(Harwell had filled in for Allen once before, on a 2003 telecast.) [7] 
He also appeared as a guest on an ESPN Sunday Night Baseball telecast in 
Detroit on July 1, 2007. Harwell occasionally did vignettes on the history 
of baseball for Fox Sports Detroit's magazine program Tigers Weekly. Harwell 
was known for his low-key delivery, southern accent (Detroit "Ti-guhs"), 
and conversational style. Some of his trademark phrases were: Harwell would 
also begin the first spring training broadcast of each season with a reading 
from Song of Solomon 2:11-12 (KJV): "For lo, the winter is past, the rain 
is over and gone; the flowers appear on the earth; the time of the singing 
of birds is come, and the voice of the turtle is heard in our land."[8] 
Harwell's 1955 essay "The Game for All America", originally published in 
The Sporting News and reprinted numerous times, is considered a classic 
of baseball literature. He also authored several books, and penned an occasional 
column for the Detroit Free Press. Harwell also wrote popular music. His 
first recorded song was "Upside Down" on the Something Stupid album by 
Homer and Jethro in the mid-1960s. In the liner notes of the album, it 
says: "Detroit Tiger baseball announcer wrote this one, and we think it's 
a fine observation of the world today, as seen from the press box at Tiger 
Stadium. We were up there with Ernie one day and from there the world looks 
upside down. In fact, the Mets were on top in the National League." All 
told, 66 songs written by Ernie Harwell have been recorded by various artists. 
"Needless to say, I have more no-hitters than Nolan Ryan." – Ernie Harwell 
in article published May 31, 2005 in the Detroit Free Press Harwell made 
a cameo appearance in the 1994 film Cobb and in the made-for-television 
movies Aunt Mary (1979), Tiger Town (1983), and Cooperstown (1993). His 
voice can be briefly heard in the films Paper Lion (1968) and One Flew 
Over the Cuckoo's Nest (1975) and in the TV movie The Five People You Meet 
in Heaven (2004). Harwell appeared as an interview subject in the 1998 
documentary film The Life and Times of Hank Greenberg and contributed to 
numerous other baseball-themed documentaries and retrospectives over the 
years. The 1997 text-based computer simulation game APBA for Windows: Broadcast 
Blast features play-by-play commentary by Harwell. Harwell served as a 
spokesman for Blue Cross-Blue Shield of Michigan. His contract with the 
organization, which began in 2003, ran for ten years with an option for 
another ten. Had Harwell fulfilled the entire contract (by which time he 
would have been 95 years old), Blue Cross had pledged to extend it for 
yet another decade. Harwell formerly ran a blog about healthy living and 
fitness for BCBS. He retired from it on March 5, 2009. A devout Christian 
(he was born again at a 1961 Billy Graham crusade),[9] Harwell was long 
involved with Baseball Chapel, an evangelistic organization for professional 
ballplayers. In 2004, the Detroit Public Library dedicated a room to Ernie 
Harwell and his wife, Lulu, which will house Harwell's collection of baseball 
memorabilia valued at over two million dollars. On April 26, 2008 Harwell 
was presented with an Honorary Doctorate of Humane Letters from The University 
of Michigan at their Spring Commencement ceremony. One week later, on May 
3, 2008, he was presented with another Honorary Degree of Laws this time 
from Wayne State University. In late 2008, Harwell began to appear in television 
public service announcements for the Michigan Association of Broadcasters, 
advising viewers about the Digital television transition in the United 
States. Harwell was a member of the Old Tiger Stadium Conservancy Board, 
an organization which attempted to save portions of Tiger Stadium.[10] 
He offered to donate a large portion of his historic collection of baseball 
memorabilia, which he had collected over the course of his storied career, 
if part of Tiger Stadium could have been saved for a museum. Harwell lived 
in Farmington Hills, Michigan and moved to Novi, Michigan in the late 1990s 
where he lived until his death. Up until just before his death, he still 
exercised regularly, did sit-ups, used a treadmill, and lifted weights. 
The National Sportscasters and Sportswriters Association named Harwell 
as Michigan Sportscaster of the Year 19 times, and inducted him into its 
Hall of Fame in 1989. In 1991, Harwell was inducted into the American Sportscasters 
Association Hall of Fame. Harwell was also honored by the Baseball Hall 
of Fame in 1981 as the fifth broadcaster to receive its Ford C. Frick Award, 
and was elected to the Michigan Sports Hall of Fame and the National Radio 
Hall of Fame in 1998, among many other honors. In 2001, Harwell was the 
recipient of the prestigious Ty Tyson Award for Excellence in Sports Broadcasting, 
awarded by the Detroit Sports Broadcasters Association (DSBA). In 2009, 
Harwell was named the first recipient of the DSBA's Ernie Harwell Lifetime 
Contribution Award. The award, called the Ernie Harwell Lifetime Contribution 
Award, is named after the Hall of Fame Detroit Tigers announcer. Harwell 
is the first winner of the award. The award will annually honor an individual 
from the broadcast industry who has contributed outstanding time and effort 
to the betterment of sports broadcasting through a lifetime body of work. 
Emory University inducted Harwell to its Hall of Fame in 1990. The Georgia 
Sports Hall of Fame inducted Harwell in 2008. In 2010 Harwell was named 
as a recipient of the Vin Scully Lifetime Achievement Award from Fordham 
University radio station WFUV.[11] The press box at Detroit's Comerica 
Park was officially named the "Ernie Harwell Media Center" following his 
retirement from broadcasting. The Cleveland Indians also named their visiting 
radio booth at Progressive Field after Harwell.[12] The site of Tiger Stadium 
now has a sign on the fence as "Ernie Harwell Park", but it is now currently 
or officially a city park.[13] On June 6, 2013, the Wayne State University 
Department of Athletics in conjunction with the Ernie Harwell Estate and 
the Ernie Harwell Foundation announced the establishment of the Harwell 
Field Project.[14] This project is an outreach effort to build a baseball 
stadium in recognition of Ernie and his wife of 62 years, Lula "Lulu" Harwell. 
Harwell Field will provide grandstands, press box, team clubhouse and a 
foyer to recognize the achievements and contributions of the Harwells. 
On September 3, 2009, Harwell announced that he had been diagnosed with 
incurable bile duct cancer, and that he, his family and doctors had decided 
against surgery or other treatment of the condition.[15][16] On September 
16, Harwell gave a farewell address to fans at Comerica Park between innings 
of a game between the Tigers and the Kansas City Royals.[17] Harwell sat 
down for a 60-minute interview on an episode of MLB Network's Studio 42 
with Bob Costas, his final television appearance. The episode premiered 
November 17, 2009.[18] In the interview, Costas correctly foresaw the 2009 
World Series would unfortunately be Harwell's last. Harwell died on May 
4, 2010, at his home in Novi, Michigan, surrounded by his wife of 68 years, 
Lulu, and three of their four children.[19] He was set to receive the Vin 
Scully Lifetime Achievement Award in Sports Broadcasting on May 5 in New 
York City.[20][21] Harwell considered Scully to be the best broadcaster 
of all-time. However, in accepting the award on Harwell's behalf, Al Kaline 
noted "We Tiger fans respectfully disagree."[22] Harwell lay in repose 
at Comerica Park on May 6. Over 10,000 fans filed past the open casket.[23] 
May 10 was declared Ernie Harwell Day at Comerica Park. Several players 
and broadcasters hoisted a flag in center field bearing his initials, similar 
to the ones that were also sewn onto all Tigers uniforms. Harwell's longtime 
broadcasting partner Paul Carey threw out the ceremonial first pitch that 
