Ernest Grady Shore (March 24, 1891 – September 24, 1980) was an American 
right-handed pitcher in Major League Baseball for the Boston Red Sox during 
some of their best years in the 1910s. He was born near East Bend, North 
Carolina. Shore graduated from Guilford College in 1913. Along with Babe 
Ruth, he was sold by the Baltimore Orioles to the Red Sox. Shore's best 
year with the Red Sox was 1915, when he won 18, lost 8 and compiled a 1.64 
earned run average. He was 3–1 in World Series action in 1915 and 1916. 
He missed the 1918 Red Sox World Championship season, having enlisted in 
the military in that war year. His most famous game occurred on June 23, 
1917, against the Washington Senators in the first game of a doubleheader 
at Fenway Park. Ruth started the game, walking the first batter, Ray Morgan. 
As newspaper accounts of the time relate, the short-fused Ruth then engaged 
in a heated argument with apparently equally short-fused home plate umpire 
Brick Owens. Owens tossed Ruth out of the game, and the even more enraged 
Ruth then slugged the umpire a glancing blow before being taken off the 
field; the catcher, Pinch Thomas, was also ejected. Shore was brought in 
to pitch, and came in with very few warmup pitches. With a new pitcher 
and catcher, runner Morgan tried to steal but was thrown out. Shore then 
proceeded to retire the remaining 26 Senators without allowing a baserunner, 
earning a 4–0 Red Sox win. For many years the game was listed in record 
books as a "perfect game", but officially it is scored as a no-hitter, 
shared by two pitchers. Following the game, Ruth paid a $100 fine, was 
suspended for ten games, and issued a public apology for his behavior. 
Shore was sold to the New York Yankees by Red Sox owner Harry Frazee, where 
he closed out his career. Shore was sheriff of Forsyth County, North Carolina 
for many years, and led the 1950s effort to build a minor league baseball 
park in Winston-Salem, a park that was ultimately named for him and is 
the home of the Wake Forest University baseball team. He died on September 
