In baseball statistics, an error is an act, in the judgment of the official 
scorer, of a fielder misplaying a ball in a manner that allows a batter 
or baserunner to advance one or more bases or allows an at bat to continue 
after the batter should have been put out. The term error can also refer 
to the play during which an error was committed. An error does not count 
as a hit but still counts as an at bat for the batter unless, in the scorer's 
judgment, the batter would have reached first base safely but one or more 
of the additional base(s) reached was the result of the fielder's mistake. 
In that case, the play will be scored both as a hit (for the number of 
bases the fielders should have limited the batter to) and an error. However, 
if a batter is judged to have reached base solely because of a fielder's 
mistake, it is scored as a "hit on error," and treated the same as if the 
batter had been put out, hence lowering his batting average. Similarly, 
a batter does not receive credit for a run batted in (RBI) when runs score 
on an error, unless the scorer rules that a run would have scored even 
if the fielder had not made a mistake. For example, if a batter hits a 
ball to the outfield for what should be a sacrifice fly and the outfielder 
drops the ball for an error, the batter will still receive credit for the 
sacrifice fly and the run batted in. If a play should have resulted in 
a fielder's choice with a runner being put out and the batter reaching 
base safely but the runner is safe due to an error, the play will be scored 
as a fielder's choice, with no hit being awarded to the batter and an error 
charged against the fielder. Passed balls and wild pitches are separate 
statistical categories and are not scored as errors. If a batted ball were 
hit on the fly into foul territory, with the batting team having no runner(s) 
on base, and a fielder misplayed such ball for an error, it is possible 
for a team on the winning side of a perfect game to commit at least one 
error, yet still qualify as a perfect game. There is a curious loophole 
in the rules on errors for catchers. If a catcher makes a "wild throw" 
in an attempt to prevent a stolen base and the runner is safe, the catcher 
is not charged with an error even if it could be argued that the runner 
would have been put out with "ordinary effort." There is therefore a "no 
fault" condition for the catcher attempting to prevent a steal. However, 
when considering that the majority of stolen base attempts are successful 
(around 2 successes per failure), this "no fault rule" is understandable 
due to the extreme difficulty of throwing out runners. If the runner takes 
an additional base due to the wild throw, an error is charged for that 
advance. However, if the catcher's glove is hit by the bat, it is counted 
as a catcher's interference and the catcher is given an error unless the 
batter gets a hit off the play. Traditionally, the number of errors was 
a statistic used to quantify the skill of a fielder. Research has shown 
that the error rate is higher when the quality of fielding is suspect, 
e.g., the performance of an expansion team in its first year, or the fielding 
done by replacement players during World War II, and is lower when playing 
conditions are better, e.g. on artificial turf and during night games.[1] 
However, fans and analysts have questioned the usefulness and significance 
of errors as a metric for fielding skill. Notably, mental misjudgments, 
such as failure to cover a base or attempting a force out when such a play 
is not available, are not considered errors. A more subtle, though more 
significant objection to the error, as sabermetricians have noted, is more 
conceptual. In order for a fielder to be charged with an error, he must 
have done something right by being in the correct place to be able to attempt 
the play. A poor fielder may "avoid" many errors simply by being unable 
to reach batted or thrown balls that a better fielder could successfully 
reach. Thus, it is possible that a poor fielder will have fewer errors 
than any fielder with higher expectancies.[2] In recent times, official 
scorers have made some attempt to take a fielder's supposed "extraordinary" 
effort or positioning into account when judging whether the play should 
have been successful given ordinary effort. However, this still leaves 
statistics, such as fielding percentage, that are based on errors as a 
way to compare the defensive abilities of players. Errors also hold significance 
in calculating the earned run average (ERA) of a pitcher. Runs scored due 
to an error are unearned, and do not count toward a pitcher's ERA. In Major 
League Baseball, Herman Long holds the Major League records with 1096 errors 
in his career between 1889 and 1904. Bill Dahlen, Deacon White and Germany 
Smith are the only other players to make 1,000 errors during their MLB 
careers. All of these players played at least one season before 1900. The 
20th century record is held by Rabbit Maranville with 711 errors. Among 
active players, Adrián Beltré leads with 275 errors over 2475 career games 
as of June 14, 2015.[3] The major league record for pitchers in a career 
is held by Hippo Vaughn, with 64 errors. That also is the National League 
record. The American career mark is held by Ed Walsh. The most errors made 
by a pitcher in a season is 28 by Jim Whitney, which also is the National 
League record. The American League record of 15 is held by three pitchers, 
Jack Chesbro, Rube Waddell, and Ed Walsh. The record for most errors made 
by a pitcher in one inning is three, first set by Cy Seymour in 1898. The 
record was tied by Tommy John in 1988, Jaime Navarro in 1996 and Mike Sirotka 
in 1999.[4] Ivey Wingo holds the major league and National League records 
for most errors made by a catcher, with 234. He made 59 errors while playing 
for the Cardinals and 175 for the Reds. The American League record is held 
by Wally Schang, who made 218 errors playing for five teams.[5] The major 
league and National League records for errors by a first baseman is held 
by Cap Anson, who made 568 errors. Hal Chase holds the American League 
record with 285, 240 for the New York Highlanders and 40 for the Chicago 
White Sox. Anson also holds the single season record for most errors by 
a first baseman 58 while Steve Garvey holds the record for fewest in season, 
with zero.[6] Fred Pfeffer holds the major league and National League records 
for most errors made by a second baseman, with 857 and 781, respectively. 
The American League record is 435, held by Hall of Famer Eddie Collins.[7] 
Jerry Denny holds the Major League and National League records for most 
errors by third basemen in a career with 533. Jimmy Austin holds the American 
League record with 359.[8] Bill Dahlen holds both the major league and 
National League record for shortstops, with 975 in 20 seasons. He made 
443 errors with the Chicago Cubs, 260 with the Brooklyn Dodgers, 200 with 
the New York Giants and 72 with the Boston Braves. (He also made 89 errors 
as a third baseman, eight errors at second base, and eight errors as an 
outfielder, for a total of 1,080 errors in his career.[9]) Donie Bush holds 
the American League record, with 689, with all but the seven he recorded 
with the Washington Senators being made with the Detroit Tigers.[10] Nineteenth-century 
player Tom Brown established the major league record with 490 errors committed 
as an outfielder. He racked up 222 errors in the American Association, 
238 in the National League, and 30 in the Player's League. (Brown also 
made six errors as a pitcher, for a total of 496 errors in his career.) 
By contrast, the National League record is held by nineteenth-century player 
George Gore with 346 errors and the American League record by Ty Cobb with 
