Erysipelas (/ɛrᵻˈsɪpələs/; Greek ἐρυσίπελας, "red skin"; also known as 
"ignis sacer", "holy fire", and "St. Anthony's fire"[1] in some countries) 
is an acute infection[2] typically with a skin rash, usually on any of 
the legs and toes, face, arms, and fingers. It is an infection of the upper 
dermis and superficial lymphatics, usually caused by beta-hemolytic group 
A Streptococcus bacteria on scratches or otherwise infected areas.[3] Erysipelas 
is more superficial than cellulitis, and is typically more raised and demarcated.[4] 
Affected individuals typically develop symptoms including high fevers, 
shaking, chills, fatigue, headaches, vomiting, and general illness within 
48 hours of the initial infection. The erythematous skin lesion enlarges 
rapidly and has a sharply demarcated, raised edge. It appears as a red, 
swollen, warm, and painful rash, similar in consistency to an orange peel. 
More severe infections can result in vesicles (pox or insect bite-like 
marks), blisters, and petechiae (small purple or red spots), with possible 
skin necrosis (death). Lymph nodes may be swollen, and lymphedema may occur. 
Occasionally, a red streak extending to the lymph node can be seen. The 
infection may occur on any part of the skin, including the face, arms, 
fingers, legs, and toes; it tends to favour the extremities. Fat tissue 
and facial areas, typically around the eyes, ears, and cheeks, are most 
susceptible to infection. Repeated infection of the extremities can lead 
to chronic swelling (lymphangitis). Most cases of erysipelas are due to 
Streptococcus pyogenes (also known as beta-hemolytic group A streptococci), 
although non-group A streptococci can also be the causative agent. Beta-hemolytic, 
non-group A streptococci include Streptococcus agalactiae, also known as 
group B strep or GBS. Historically, the face was most affected; today, 
the legs are affected most often.[5] The rash is due to an exotoxin, not 
the Streptococcus bacteria, and is found in areas where no symptoms are 
present; e.g., the infection may be in the nasopharynx, but the rash is 
found usually on the face and arms. Erysipelas infections can enter the 
skin through minor trauma, insect bites, dog bites, eczema, athlete's foot, 
surgical incisions and ulcers and often originate from streptococci bacteria 
in the subject's own nasal passages. Infection sets in after a small scratch 
or abrasion spreads, resulting in toxaemia. Erysipelas does not affect 
subcutaneous tissue. It does not release pus, only serum or serous fluid. 
Subcutaneous edema may lead the physician to misdiagnose it as cellulitis, 
but the style of the rash is much more well circumscribed and sharply marginated 
than the rash of cellulitis. This disease is most common among the elderly, 
infants, and children. People with immune deficiency, diabetes, alcoholism, 
skin ulceration, fungal infections, and impaired lymphatic drainage (e.g., 
after mastectomy, pelvic surgery, bypass grafting) are also at increased 
risk. This disease is diagnosed mainly by the appearance of well-demarcated 
rash and inflammation. Blood cultures are unreliable for diagnosis of the 
disease, but may be used to test for sepsis. Erysipelas must be differentiated 
from herpes zoster, angioedema, contact dermatitis, and diffuse inflammatory 
carcinoma of the breast. Erysipelas can be distinguished from cellulitis 
by its raised advancing edges and sharp borders. Elevation of the antistreptolysin 
O titer occurs after around 10 days of illness. Depending on the severity, 
treatment involves either oral or intravenous antibiotics, using penicillins, 
clindamycin, or erythromycin. While illness symptoms resolve in a day or 
two, the skin may take weeks to return to normal. Because of the risk of 
reinfection, prophylactic antibiotics are sometimes used after resolution 
of the initial condition. However, this approach does not always stop reinfection.[6] 
. The disease prognosis includes: Apocryphal/Fictional Fatal, in order 
of death Recovered Erysipelas is also the name given to an infection in 
animals caused by the bacterium Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae. E. rhusiopathiae 
can also infect humans, but in that case the infection is known as erysipeloid. 
