ESPN on ABC (known as ABC Sports from 1961 to 2006) is the brand used for 
sports event and documentary programming televised on the American Broadcasting 
Company (ABC) in the United States. Officially, the broadcast network retains 
its own sports division; however, for all practical purposes, ABC's sports 
division has been merged into ESPN Inc., the parent subsidiary of cable 
sports network ESPN that is majority owned by ABC's corporate parent, The 
Walt Disney Company, in partnership with the Hearst Corporation. ABC broadcasts 
use ESPN's production and announcing staff, and incorporate elements such 
as ESPN-branded on-screen graphics, SportsCenter in-game updates, and the 
BottomLine ticker. The ABC logo is used for identification purposes as 
a digital on-screen graphic during sports broadcasts on the network, and 
in promotions to disambiguate events airing the broadcast network from 
those shown on the ESPN cable channel.[1] The broadcast network's sports 
event coverage carried the ABC Sports brand prior to September 2, 2006.[2] 
When ABC acquired a controlling interest in ESPN in 1984, it operated the 
cable network separately from its network sports division. The integration 
of ABC Sports with ESPN began after The Walt Disney Company bought ABC 
in 1996. The branding change to ESPN on ABC was made to better orient ESPN 
viewers with event telecasts on ABC and provide consistent branding for 
all sports broadcasts on Disney-owned channels (shortly thereafter, ESPN2's 
in-game graphics were likewise altered to simply use the main "ESPN" brand). 
Despite its name, ABC's sports coverage is supplemental to ESPN and (with 
occasional exceptions) not a simulcast of programs aired by the network, 
although ESPN and ESPN2 will often carry ABC's regional broadcasts that 
otherwise would not air in certain markets. Like its longtime competitors 
CBS Sports and NBC Sports, ABC Sports was originally part of the news division 
of the ABC network, and, after 1961, was spun off into a separate sports 
division. When Roone Arledge came to ABC Sports as a producer of NCAA football 
games in 1960, the network was in financial shambles. The International 
Olympic Committee even wanted a bank to guarantee ABC's contract to broadcast 
the 1960 Olympics. At the time, Edward Scherick served as the de facto 
head of ABC Sports. Scherick had joined the fledgling ABC television network 
when he persuaded it to purchase Sports Programs, Inc., in exchange for 
the network acquiring shares in the company.[3] Scherick had formed the 
company after he left CBS, when the network would not make him the head 
of its sports programming unit (choosing to instead appoint former baseball 
public relations agent William C. McPhail). Before ABC Sports even became 
a formal division of the network, Scherick and ABC programming chief Tom 
Moore pulled off many programming deals involving the most popular American 
sporting events. While Scherick was not interested in "For Men Only," he 
recognized the talent that Arledge had. Arledge realized ABC was the organization 
he was looking to become part of. The lack of a formal organization would 
offer him the opportunity to claim real power when the network matured. 
With this, he signed on with Scherick as an assistant producer, with Arledge 
eventually ascending to a role as executive producer of its sports telecasts.[4] 
Several months before ABC began broadcasting NCAA college football games, 
Arledge sent Scherick a remarkable memo, filled with youthful exuberance, 
and television production concepts which sports broadcasts have adhered 
to since. Network broadcasts of sporting events had previously consisted 
of simple set-ups and focused on the game itself. In his memo, Arledge 
not only offered another way to broadcast the game to the sports fan, but 
recognized that television had to take fans to the game. In addition, he 
had the forethought to realize that the broadcasts needed to attract, and 
hold the attention of female viewers, as well as males. On September 17, 
1960, the then-29-year-old Arledge put his vision into reality with ABC's 
first NCAA college football broadcast from Birmingham, Alabama, between 
the Alabama Crimson Tide and the Georgia Bulldogs which Alabama won, 21–6. 
Despite the production values he brought to NCAA college football, Scherick 
wanted low-budget sports programming (as in inexpensive broadcasting rights) 
that could attract and retain an audience. He hit upon the idea of broadcasting 
track and field events sponsored by the Amateur Athletic Union. While Americans 
were not exactly fans of track and field events, Scherick figured that 
Americans understood games. In January 1961, Scherick called Arledge into 
his office, and asked him to attend the annual AAU board of governors meeting. 
While he was shaking hands, Scherick said, "if the mood seemed right, might 
he cut a deal to broadcast AAU events on ABC?" It seemed like a tall assignment, 
however as Scherick said years later, "Roone was a gentile and I was not." 
Arledge came back with a deal for ABC to broadcast all AAU events for $50,000 
per year. Next, Scherick and Arledge divided up their NCAA college football 
sponsor list. They then telephoned their sponsors and said in so many words, 
"Advertise on our new sports show coming up in April, or forget about buying 
commercials on NCAA college football this fall." The two persuaded enough 
sponsors to advertise on the broadcasts, though it took them to the last 
day of a deadline imposed by ABC's programming operations to do it. Wide 
World of Sports – an anthology series featuring a different sporting event 
each broadcast, which premiered on the network on April 29, 1961[5][6] 
– suited Scherick's plans exactly. By exploiting the speed of jet transportation 
and flexibility of videotape, Scherick was able to undercut NBC and CBS's 
advantages in broadcasting live sporting events. In that era, with communications 
nowhere near as universal as they are in the present day, ABC was able 
to safely record events on videotape for later broadcast without worrying 
about an audience finding out the results. Arledge, his colleague Chuck 
Howard, and Jim McKay (who left CBS for this opportunity) made up the show 
on a week-by-week basis during the first year of Wide World's run. Arledge 
had a genius for the dramatic storyline that unfolded in the course of 
a game or event. McKay's honest curiosity and reporter's bluntness gave 
the show an emotional appeal which attracted viewers who might not have 
otherwise watched a sporting event. More importantly from Arledge's perspective, 
Wide World of Sports allowed him to demonstrate his ability as an administrator 
as well as a producer. His ability to provide prime sports content was 
solidified in 1964, when ABC appointed Arledge as the vice president of 
ABC Sports.[7] That same year, Scherick left the sports division to become 
ABC's vice president of programming – leaving Arledge as the top executive 
at ABC Sports, although he would not gain a formal title as president for 
four years. In 1968, Arledge was formally appointed as president of ABC 
Sports. As the sports division's president for the succeeding 18 years, 
his job was his hobby; as he described it, it was good because he watched 
sports for work rather than leisure, but had a downside as he had no time 
left for leisure activities. He made sportsmen into stars, a trend he would 
later bring to the news division where he lured established anchors and 
correspondents such as David Brinkley and Diane Sawyer and paid unheard-of 
salaries, including the first million-dollar contract to Barbara Walters.[8] 
Arledge personally produced all ten of ABC's Olympic Games broadcasts, 
created the primetime Monday Night Football and coined the famous "thrill 
of victory, agony of defeat" tagline first used on Wide World of Sports 
– although ABC insiders of that era attribute the authorship to legendary 
sports broadcaster Jim McKay. Over the next few years, the look of the 
network's sports telecasts became more intimate and entertaining as under 
Arledge, ABC introduced techniques such as slow motion replay, freeze frame, 
instant replay, split-screen, hand-held cameras, endzone cameras, underwater 
cameras and cameras on cranes. As part of an agreement with the National 
Football League (which completed its merger with the American Football 
League that year), Monday Night Football debuted on ABC in September 1970,[9] 
which served as the NFL's premier game of the week until 2006, when Sunday 
Night Football, which moved to NBC that year as part of a broadcast deal 
that in turn saw MNF move to ESPN, took over as the league's marquee game. 
Although it suffered a decline in ratings toward the end of its ABC run, 
the program was a hit for the network; according to ABC president Leonard 
Goldenson, Monday Night Football helped regularly score ABC an audience 
share of 15%–16%.[10] With the creation of Monday Night Football, Arledge 
not only anchored ABC's primetime programming, but created a national pastime. 
At first, nobody – including the affiliates and the advertisers – supported 
the idea of primetime football games at the beginning of the week. Arledge 
said regarding this skepticism, "But I thought there was something special 
about football, because there are so few games, and relatively few teams. 
Also, there is something about the look of a night game, with the lights 
bouncing off the helmets." It was not only the lights that made watching 
Arledge-style football on ABC an event in itself. The games were transformed 
into events through the technical innovations envisioned by Arledge and 
through a new style of sportscaster embodied in Howard Cosell. ABC was 
the first network not to allow announcer approval by the league from which 
it was purchasing broadcast rights. Arledge said, "CBS had been the basic 
football network. They treated it like a religion and would almost never 
criticize it. But if you screwed up on Monday Night Football, Cosell would 
let everyone know about it." Arledge proudly pointed out that the program 
"changed the habits of the nation." In 1977, Arledge's executive responsibilities 
at ABC were expanded, and he was made president of ABC News while remaining 
as head of ABC Sports.[citation needed] The seeds of its eventual integration 
with ESPN occurred when ABC acquired a controlling interest in ESPN from 
Getty Oil in 1984. One year later, Capital Cities Communications purchased 
ABC for US$3.5 billion. Although some ESPN sportscasters such as John Saunders 
and Dick Vitale began to also appear on ABC Sports telecasts and shared 
some sports content (particularly the USFL), ESPN and ABC Sports continued 
to operate as separate entities. After The Walt Disney Company bought Capital 
Cities/ABC in 1996, Disney started to slowly integrate ESPN and ABC Sports. 
ESPN personalities like Chris Berman, Mike Tirico and Brad Nessler also 
began working on ABC Sports broadcasts. In 1998, ESPN adopted the graphics 
and music package used by ABC Sports for Monday Night Football for the 
network's Sunday Night Football broadcasts. ESPN graphics were also utilized 
on ABC's motorsports telecasts, including IndyCar and NASCAR events, during 
this period. That same year, ESPN signed a five-year contract to televise 
National Hockey League (NHL) games, whereby the cable network essentially 
purchased time on ABC to air selected NHL games on the broadcast network. 
This was noted in copyright tags at the conclusion of the telecasts (i.e., 
"The preceding program has been paid for by ESPN, Inc."). ESPN later signed 
a similar television rights contract with the National Basketball Association 
in 2002, allowing it to produce and broadcast NBA games on ABC under a 
similar time buy on the broadcast network.[11] Between 2000 and 2002, many 
ABC Sports programs utilized graphics almost identical to those used on 
ESPN. One notable exception was Monday Night Football, which switched to 
a different graphics package as part of then-new producer Don Ohlmeyer's 
attempt to provide some renewed vigor into those telecasts. Subsequently, 
ABC changed graphics packages each fall from 2002 to 2005, while ESPN's 
basically remained consistent. Meanwhile, Disney continued to consolidate 
the corporate structure of ESPN and ABC Sports. Steve Bornstein was given 
the title as president of both ESPN and ABC Sports in 1996. The sales, 
marketing, and production departments of both divisions were eventually 
merged. As a result, ESPN uses some union production crews for its coverage 
(as the networks normally do), whereas non-union personnel are quite common 
in cable sports broadcasting. In August 2006, it was announced that ABC 
Sports would be totally integrated into ESPN, incorporating the graphics 
and music used by the cable channel and its related television properties, 
and production staff. The brand integration does not directly affect whether 
the ESPN cable channel or ABC carries a particular event, as in most cases 
this is governed by contracts with the applicable league or organization. 
Perhaps confusingly, this means that some events are broadcast with ESPN 
branding during ABC coverage, even though another channel owns the cable 
rights. For example, TNT held the cable television rights to the British 
Open from 2003 to 2009 (with ABC carrying the tournament's weekend coverage); 
in addition, since 2009, ABC has shared the rights to IndyCar Series with 
NBCSN. IndyCar fans who have criticized ESPN on ABC's race broadcasts have 
used "Always Bad Coverage" as a derisive backronym pertaining to the quality 
of the telecasts.[12] On the other hand, ESPN airs Major League Baseball 
games; however, ABC does not as Fox holds the broadcast television rights 
to the league's game telecasts. The last live sporting event televised 
under the ABC Sports banner was the United States Championship Game in 
the Little League World Series on Saturday, August 26, 2006 (ABC was slated 
to carry the Little League World Series Championship Game on Sunday, August 
27, however rain forced the postponement of the game to the following Monday, 
August 28, with that game subsequently airing on ESPN2). The changeover 
took effect the following weekend to coincide with the start of the college 
football season, with NBA, IndyCar Series and NASCAR coverage eventually 
following suit. However, ABC used a separate graphics package (incorporating 
the network's own logo) during its coverage of the final round of the Scripps 
National Spelling Bee, which were similar to the older-styled ESPN graphics 
but with a yellow base. In 2008, though, it utilized the newer yellow and 
red ESPN graphics which had been used on other recent telecasts, but with 
the ABC logo. These graphics were used through 2010. In 2011, the Bee was 
moved off of network TV and the telecast began to be produced by Scripps 
Television, which uses its own graphics. As ESPN has signed new contracts 
with various conferences to produce college football coverage, the network 
has begun branding its coverage of select conferences to which it has rights. 
This branding was first seen on SEC broadcasts in 2011, which became the 
"SEC on ESPN". ACC broadcasts followed suit in 2012 becoming the "ACC on 
ESPN". Despite the fact that ACC games also air on ABC, the games remain 
branded as the "ACC on ESPN" regardless of network. In 2016, a new contract 
brought conference branding to Big Ten telecasts as well, which air on 
both ESPN and ABC. While Big Ten games that air on ESPN cable channels 
are branded as the "Big Ten on ESPN", games airing on ABC are now branded 
as the "Big Ten on ABC". While the program is still officially part of 
ESPN College Football which is reflected when talent appears on screen, 
the Big Ten on ABC logo and branding is used for intro, program IDs, and 
replay wipes. This is the first time any regularly schedule sporting event 
outside of the National Spelling Bee has carried any ABC branding since 
2006. Despite the rebranding, ABC Sports continues to exist, at least nominally, 
as a division of the ABC network. One indication of this was the retention 
of George Bodenheimer's official title as "President, ESPN Inc. and ABC 
Sports" even after the rebranding – the second part of the title would 
presumably be unnecessary if ESPN had fully absorbed ABC's sports operations 
– though following Bodenheimer's retirement and the subsequent appointment 
of John Skipper at the end of 2011, the title was shortened to "President, 
ESPN Inc."[13] In addition, ABC itself maintains the copyright over many 
of the ESPN-branded broadcasts, if they are not contractually assigned 
to the applicable league or organizer, suggesting that ESPN has merely 
"loaned" usage of its brand name, staff and infrastructure to ABC, rather 
than having acquired ABC Sports outright. This is likely a minor technicality 
stemming from ESPN being technically a joint venture between Disney (which 
owns an 80% controlling interest) and the Hearst Corporation (which owns 
the remaining 20%). Disney has long exercised operational control of the 
network, while Hearst is believed to be more of a silent partner rather 
than an active participant in ESPN's management. However, this relationship 
does mean that Hearst's ABC-affiliated stations – such as WCVB-TV in Boston; 
WMUR-TV in Manchester, New Hampshire; WTAE-TV in Pittsburgh; WISN-TV in 
Milwaukee; WPBF-TV in West Palm Beach; and KMBC-TV in Kansas City – have 
right of first refusal to local simulcasts of ESPN-televised Monday Night 
Football games involving home-market teams, which are very rarely waived 
to other stations within their markets. Equally, other Hearst-owned stations 
such as NBC affiliate WBAL-TV in Baltimore have been able to air NFL games 
from ESPN for the same reason (independent station WMOR-TV in the Tampa 
market is also eligible to air these games, but rarely if ever does so).[14] 
Under NFL broadcasting rules, the league's cable-televised games must be 
simulcast on broadcast television in the local markets of the teams playing 
in the broadcast, though the game is not permitted to air in the home team's 
market if tickets do not sell out 72 hours before kickoff – games that 
are not sold out must be blacked out in the market of origin (due to the 
league's March 2015 decision to suspend its blackout policies, all NFL 
games televised by ESPN during the 2015 season are allowed to air on broadcast 
television in the originating market of the game and the home markets of 
both participating teams). Similar rules and rights were previously in 
place for ESPN-televised Major League Baseball playoff games, except in 
that non-sellout games were not blacked out (Major League Baseball does 
not black out games based on attendance, but rather to protect local broadcasters). 
ABC owned-and-operated stations also have right of first refusal for NFL 
(and previously Major League Baseball postseason) simulcasts from ESPN, 
though in recent years the stations have passed on airing the game telecasts 
in favor of carrying ABC's Monday night schedule, which includes the popular 
reality competition series Dancing with the Stars.[15] ESPN has been criticized 
for decreasing the amount of sports programming televised on ABC. Several 
ABC affiliates have also voiced opposition regarding the increasing migration 
of live sporting event telecasts from ABC to ESPN.[16] An example was in 
regards to NASCAR race broadcasts: from 2007 to 2009, ABC aired all of 
the Chase for the NASCAR Sprint Cup races, along with one other race. From 
2010 to 2014, only three Sprint Cup races and one Chase race (Charlotte) 
were shown on ABC, to the outrage of many NASCAR fans and sponsors. Several 
other events such as college football's Rose Bowl and Capital One Bowl 
games, and the British Open golf tournament have also been transferred 
from ABC to ESPN (although the Capital One Bowl would return to ABC in 
2013). This, however, is not entirely the fault of ESPN, as ABC in general 
has attracted a primarily female viewership in recent years, with sports 
largely attracting a male-dominated –though not exclusive – audience.[17] 
The decrease in sports events televised by ABC has resulted in the network 
having a very inconsistent weekend afternoon sports schedule similar – 
if not somewhat equal – to Fox in previous years (and to some extent, to 
this day, even with the expansion of sports coverage on Fox since 2011); 
ESPN-produced sports specials (aired as part of the 30 for 30 and E:60 
anthology series) and/or more recently, figure skating and gymnastics specials 
supplied by Disson Skating (a subsidiary of independent production company 
Disson Sports & Entertainment) as well as syndicated programs and/or infomercials 
scheduled by the network's owned-and-operated stations and affiliates fill 
the weekend afternoon schedule on days when the network is not scheduled 
to air a sporting event; until 2014, ABC-supplied rerun blocks of certain 
primetime network shows and occasional theatrical film telecasts have also 
filled the schedule on weekend afternoons without a scheduled sports event. 
In fact, as a consequence of this fact, ABC turned over an hour of its 
then-existing two-hour Sunday afternoon block (from 4:00 to 5:00 p.m. Eastern 
Time) to its affiliates on June 21, 2015, reducing its Sunday schedule 
on weeks without major sporting events to one hour; the 5:00 p.m. (Eastern) 
hour that was retained is usually reserved for rebroadcasts of ESPN sports 
documentaries. However, as of January 2016, ABC rescinded the remaining 
hour of its Sunday afternoon schedule (from 5:00-6:00 PM Eastern Time) 
back to its affiliates thus leaving ABC without a Sunday afternoon block 
(save for major sporting events). This exclusively relegated ABC's sports 
schedule to Saturday afternoons (and by extension, ABC's non-news weekend 
schedule to 3:00 to 6:00 PM and 8:00 to 11:00 PM on Saturdays and 7:00 
to 11:00 PM on Sundays). ABC's in-house network-programmed Sunday schedule 
not counting news-related programming as a result of this is now exclusively 
relegated to its 4-hour prime time block (from 7:00 to 11:00 PM). In the 
past few years, ABC gave up several lucrative sports contracts. It gave 
up the rights for the American Le Mans Series in 2013 when it merged with 
the Rolex Grand Am Series to form the Weathertech Sportscar Championship 
and subsequently moved to Fox. It also threw in the towel on its FIFA coverage 
with rights also being transferred to Fox one year later in 2014. It then 
lost the NASCAR broadcast rights the same year with the rights being picked 
up by NBC. Also, it phased-out the last of its college basketball coverage 
also in the same year (the SEC Men's Basketball Tournament) with the tournament 
being moved to the ESPN cable networks. In addition, it also gave up its 
highlights show relating to the British Open golf tournament one year later. 
In 2016, ABC also ended its regularly-scheduled doubleheaders for its NBA 
Sunday Showcase, opting to opening up a window for Saturday night games 
and leaving single games on Sunday afternoons in most cases.[18] In addition, 
ABC discontinued airing Grantland-related programming when the brand shut 
down operations in October. Ironically, ESPN has announced they will simulcast 
an NFL Wild Card Playoff game on ABC starting in 2016, marking the first 
time ABC will have an NFL game since Super Bowl XL.[19] Unlike other ESPN 
networks, ESPN on ABC events were still produced with graphics and a BottomLine 
framed for the 4:3 aspect ratio – as opposed to the 16:9 formatting used 
for the ticker and graphics on the ESPN family of networks, as well as 
CBS, Fox, and NBC's sports telecasts. However, beginning during the 2016 
Little League World Series in August 2016, ABC migrated to a 16:9 presentation 
for ESPN on ABC broadcasts, similar to the ESPN cable networks, as ABC's 
entertainment programming also switched to a 16:9 presentation in September.[20] 
Until 2001, ABC Sports programs ended with the line "This has been a presentation 
of ABC Sports. Recognized around the world as the leader in sports television." 
Beginning in 2001, ABC changed the tagline to "ABC Sports: Championship 
Television," in regards to ABC's sports lineup (which included the BCS 
Championship Game, the Stanley Cup Finals, rights to Super Bowl coverage, 
and would later include the NBA Finals). Ever since the ESPN on ABC integration, 
the ESPN tagline – "This has been a presentation of ESPN, The Worldwide 
Leader in Sports" – has been used at the end of each broadcast on ABC. 
The following broadcast television sports organizations are main competitors 
