ESPN2 is an American basic cable and satellite television network that 
is owned by ESPN Inc., a joint venture between The Walt Disney Company 
(which owns a controlling 80% stake) and the Hearst Corporation (which 
owns the remaining 20%). ESPN2 was initially formatted as a network for 
a younger generation of sports fans; by the late 1990s, this mandate was 
phased out as the channel increasingly served as a second outlet for ESPN's 
mainstream sports coverage. As of February 2015, ESPN2 is available to 
approximately 94,379,000 pay television households (81.1% of households 
with at least one television set) in the United States.[1] ESPN2 launched 
on October 1, 1993 at 7:30 p.m. Eastern Time. Its inaugural program was 
the premiere of SportsNight, a sports news program originally hosted by 
Keith Olbermann and Suzy Kolber – where Olbermann opened the show by jokingly 
welcoming viewers to "the end of our careers."[2] Launching with an estimated 
carriage of about 10 million homes, ESPN2 aimed to be a more informal and 
youth-oriented channel than parent network ESPN, featuring a heavier emphasis 
on programming that would appeal to the demographic. The youthful image 
was also reflected in its overall presentation, which featured a graffiti-themed 
logo and on-air graphics.[3][4] Its initial lineup featured studio programs 
such as SportsNight (which host Keith Olbermann characterized as a "lighter" 
parallel to ESPN's SportsCenter that would still be "comprehensive, thorough 
and extremely skeptical"), Talk2 (a nightly talk show hosted by radio personality 
Jim Rome, which was billed as a sports parallel to CNN's Larry King Live), 
Max Out (an extreme sports anthology series carried over from ESPN) and 
SportsSmash, a five-minute rundown of sports news and scores which aired 
every half-hour. ESPN2 also featured several half-hour news programs focused 
on specific sports, such as NFL 2Night (football), NHL 2Night (hockey) 
and RPM 2Night (auto racing). Event coverage would focus on coverage of 
mainstream sports popular within the 18-34 age demographic, such as auto 
racing, college basketball and NHL hockey (which was branded as NHL Fire 
on Ice),[5] while also covering atypical sports such as BMX and other extreme 
sports.[3] ESPN2 would also be used to showcase new technology and experimental 
means of broadcasting events: on September 18, 1994, ESPN2 simulcast CART's 
Bosch Spark Plug Grand Prix using only onboard camera feeds. In 1995, ESPN2 
introduced the "BottomLine", a persistent news ticker which displayed sports 
news and scores. The BottomLine would later be adopted by ESPN itself and 
all of its future properties.[6] In the late 1990s, ESPN2 would phase out 
its youth-oriented format and begin to serve as a secondary outlet for 
ESPN's mainstream programming; telecasts began to adopt a more conventional 
style, and the "graffiti 2" logo was dropped in 2001 in favor of a variation 
of the standard ESPN logo. On-screen graphics (such as the BottomLine) 
used a blue color scheme instead of red to differentiate it from ESPN. 
On February 12, 2007, the ESPN2 branding was stripped from most on-air 
presentation and replaced with ESPN: the ESPN2 brand is now solely used 
for station identification.[7] Sports events presented on ESPN2 originally 
tended to be alternative sports such as poker, billiards, lumberjacking, 
extreme sports and, more recently, drum and bugle corps. However, in recent 
years ESPN2 has broadcast increasingly more mainstream sporting events, 
including Major League Baseball games, the East–West Shrine Game, much 
of the 2006 World Baseball Classic, regular season KHL games, many Major 
League Soccer games, NCAA basketball games, the WNBA, the Arena Football 
League and Saturday afternoon NASCAR Nationwide Series races. In 2011, 
ESPN2 also acquired broadcast rights to delayed coverage for some American 
Le Mans Series events, with series' major events airing on ABC. The channel 
has also become ESPN's home for tennis coverage. The showpieces are all 
four of the "Grand Slam" tournaments: the Australian Open, the French Open, 
Wimbledon and the US Open. Also featured on ESPN2 are the ATP World Tour 
Finals and U.S.-based tournaments, including the ATP Masters 1000 events 
at Indian Wells and Miami, as well as the US Open Series. Most of ESPN's 
soccer output has been broadcast on ESPN2 including Major League Soccer, 
Premier League and La Liga matches; the channel also broadcast the United 
States' FIFA World Cup qualifiers in 2009. ESPN2 formerly broadcast matches 
of the UEFA Champions League, until rights for that tournament moved to 
Fox Soccer and its sister networks. In 2003, ESPN2 began broadcasting Major 
League Lacrosse games. In March 2007, ESPN2 and the league agreed on a 
new broadcast contract that will run until the 2016 season.[8] ESPN2's 
former flagship show, the morning sports/entertainment program Cold Pizza, 
achieved minimal success and saw several format and host changes. In January 
2006, it was supplanted by the television simulcast of ESPN Radio's Mike 
and Mike in the Morning (which moved from ESPNews) and moved to a later 
time slot (10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Eastern Time). In May 2007, Cold Pizza 
moved from New York City to the ESPN headquarters in Bristol, Connecticut 
and was renamed ESPN First Take. After ESPN became part of a new broadcast 
contract with the association, ESPN2 also premiered the new daily show 
NASCAR Now (similar to the previous RPM 2Night, except only focusing on 
NASCAR) in February 2007. Quite Frankly with Stephen A. Smith, a program 
that featured interviews with popular sports figures, had averaged extremely 
low ratings,[9][10] and had also faced several timeslot changes, until 
it was finally canceled in January 2007. ESPN2 has also simulcast many 
game telecasts with ESPN, usually as a part of a "Full Circle" or "Megacast" 
special, which covers a single telecast across several ESPN networks, with 
each network providing a different form of coverage (such as different 
camera angles). ESPN2 also simulcasts some programming from ESPNews, often 
during local blackouts of scheduled national game telecasts, and for a 
while provided a simulcast of ESPN Deportes' edition of SportsCenter on 
Sundays. In return, ESPN2 programming is often seen on ESPN during blackouts 
of games in certain markets. ESPN2 also often carries SportsCenter at times 
when the broadcast on ESPN is delayed by a sporting event that overruns 
into one of the program's scheduled timeslots. ESPN and ESPN2 also jointly 
aired two episodes of a documentary special called This is SportsCenter, 
in which ESPN showed a documentary showing the production of an edition 
of SportsCenter, while the finished product aired on ESPN2. The documentary 
would usually air for two hours, where the first hour would cover the preliminary 
production of the night's show on ESPN, while ESPN2 aired ESPN's regular 
programming. The second hour usually spent time at production control while 
covering reaction to the night's developments. Both ESPN and ESPN2 carried 
ABC News' coverage of the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and 
The Pentagon (and the related crash of United Airlines Flight 93 in Shanksville, 
Pennsylvania) on September 11, 2001. ESPN2 also aired the 2008 SEC Men's 
Basketball Tournament championship game in 2008 to most of the nation, 
since a storm damaged the original game site, the Georgia Dome, causing 
the schedule to be rearranged and site to be moved to the smaller Alexander 
Memorial Coliseum. The new schedule was in conflict with CBS's coverage 
of the Big Ten Championship Game; the game was produced by CBS. In the 
territory of the Southeastern Conference, the Big Ten game aired on ESPN2. 
ESPN2 broadcasts in high definition in the 720p resolution format, which 
was launched in January 2005. In January 2011, the separate ESPN2HD branding 
began to be phased out, as in May of that year, the channel would shift 
to using the AFD #10 flag to transmit the channel's standard definition 
feed in letterboxed widescreen, mirroring the display of the high definition 
