ESPN Latin America is an ESPN channel that broadcasts in Latin America 
in Spanish, not to be confused with ESPN Deportes, which is another channel 
which broadcasts in the United States in Spanish. ESPN Latin America is 
not available in the U.S., because it is not authorized to air most of 
the programming seen on its U.S. sister channels due to television rights 
affecting the programs. It is adapted to the demands of Spanish-speaking 
viewers, who tend to prefer football and Hispanic baseball players to the 
more Anglo-centric programming or athletes and Portuguese-speaking viewers 
who also tend to prefer football and prefer other popular sports in Brazil 
like basketball, futsal and volleyball. ESPN Latin America first aired 
in March 31, 1989. It cablecasts programs in Spanish; some of the programs 
are live or taped retransmissions of the sister channels ESPN, ESPN2 and 
ESPN Deportes. Some of those programs include English-language audio on 
a second audio program (SAP) with commentators from sister channels of 
the U.S. or commentators who work just for the ESPN Latin America channel. 
One of the voiceover announcers who announces programming on TV commercials 
has also appeared as a voiceover substitute for CNBC programs like Kudlow 
& Company and Mad Money in the U.S. ESPN Latin America, unlike its U.S. 
sister channels, has more programs related to football, such as live games 
from Spain's La Liga (available only for Spanish-speaking South America). 
It also airs live retransmissions of ESPN Sunday Night Baseball, the Home 
Run Derby, All-Star Game, Playoffs and World Series with Ernesto Jerez 
as the Spanish-language play-by-play announcer and other baseball commentators 
such as Venezuelan brothers Luis Alfredo Álvarez and Fernando Álvarez and 
former Puerto Rican Major League Baseball player Candy Maldonado. On weekday 
mornings at 9 a.m. Eastern Time, ESPN Latin America also airs the taped 
SportsCenter programs which air live the night before on ESPN in the U.S. 
at 1 a.m. ET. Many of the TV commercials shown on ESPN Latin America are 
for companies from Mexico, Venezuela, Argentina and Brazil, where the largest 
companies are based and where viewer numbers are higher. ESPN Latin America's 
main competitor is News Corporation's Fox Sports Latin America from Los 
Angeles (formerly called FOX Sports Americas), which, unlike ESPN Latin 
America (and like ESPN2 and ESPN+), has a FOX Sports Latin America Northern 
Cone channel for the Caribbean/Mexico baseball-focused region, and another 
channel called FOX Sports Latin America Southern Cone for Central and South 
America, which is more football-oriented. The Disney/Hearst Corporation 
joint venture has also added some secondary regional channels for the Spanish-speaking 
Americas in the last few years, like ESPN Dos (North) for the Central America/Mexico 
region, and ESPN 2 (South) for South America (Argentina/Bolivia/Chile/Colombia/Ecuador/Paraguay/Peru/Uruguay/Venezuela). 
In 2011 ESPN launched a new channel for Latin America: ESPN3. This channel 
is divided in four segmets: Live (broadcasts live coverage of sport events), 
Compact (resumed sport events), ESPN3.0 (extreme sports) and ESPN Series 
(featuring ESPN US show 30 For 30). List of the major events that can be 
