ESPN Classic is an American digital cable and satellite television network 
that is owned by ESPN Inc., a joint venture between The Walt Disney Company 
(which owns a controlling 80% stake) and Hearst Corporation (which owns 
20%). The channel features rebroadcasts of famous sporting events, sports 
documentaries and sports-themed movies. Such programs include biographies 
of famous sports figures or a rerun of a marquee World Series or Super 
Bowl game, often with added commentary on the event. As of February 2015, 
ESPN Classic is available to approximately 25,516,000 television households 
(21.9% of households with at least one television set) in the United States.[3] 
On October 1, 2014, ESPN Classic began a gradual transition into a video 
on demand-only service, with Dish Network becoming the first to discontinue 
carriage of the linear channel and carry it as a VOD service on that date. 
Other providers will follow suit on an unknown timetable.[4] The channel 
was launched on May 6, 1995 as the Classic Sports Network. The Ada Oklahoma 
location of Post Newsweek cable with 6500 subscribers was the first cable 
system to carry the programming. CSN was founded by Brian Bedol and Steve 
Greenberg (son of Hank Greenberg), both of whom went on to launch College 
Sports Television (now CBS Sports Network)), with partial funding from 
Allen & Company. In 1997, ESPN, Inc. purchased Classic Sports Network for 
$175 million[5] and relaunched it as ESPN Classic the following year. Throughout 
its history, dating back to its existence as Classic Sports Network, the 
channel's logo has incorporated a stylized silhouette intending to resemble 
a boxer. In February 2008, The Wall Street Journal reported that NFL Network 
chief executive Steve Bornstein had been in "high-level discussions" with 
NFL and Disney executives including CEO Robert Iger and NFL Commissioner 
Roger Goodell. An analyst quoted in the report suggested a merger of NFL 
Network with ESPN Classic due to the latter's wide distribution on expanded 
basic cable tiers.[6] Though a consolidation of the two channels did not 
materialize, ESPN's networks and NFL Network would begin to share programming 
(for instance, an episode of NFL's Greatest Games may air on NFL Network 
one night, then air on ESPN2 the next). Eventually however, NFL Network 
was able to obtain full carriage on most providers on its own by the middle 
of the 2012 season, no longer necessitating a need to merge the two channels. 
On August 4, 2009, Dish Network filed a federal lawsuit against ESPN for 
$1 million, alleging that the network breached its contract by not extending 
the same contractual term of carriage that ESPN provided to Comcast and 
DirecTV for ESPNU and ESPN Classic. The lawsuit claimed that ESPN violated 
the "Most Favored Nations" clause.[7] The following day, representatives 
for ESPN announced in a press release that the company would fight the 
lawsuit, stating: "We have repeatedly advised Dish that we are in full 
compliance with our agreement and have offered them a distribution opportunity 
with respect to ESPNU and ESPN Classic consistent with the rest of the 
industry. We will not renegotiate settled contracts and will vigorously 
defend this legal action, the apparent sole purpose of which is to get 
a better deal."[8] In 2008, as part of a cost-cutting move, ESPN Classic's 
schedule began to become largely composed of ESPN original programming, 
highlighting sports such as poker, bowling and boxing, with a decreased 
emphasis on rebroadcasts of classic major league sporting events (a practice 
which has, however, been adopted by sports networks associated with a league 
or individual teams, among other channels). Since 2005, the channel has 
also frequently broadcast overflow programming from the main ESPN channels, 
and reruns of ESPN-produced telecasts of recent sporting events that the 
network has declared an "Instant Classic". ESPN Classic is the only U.S.-based 
ESPN network (and one of two Disney-owned cable channels in the U.S., alongside 
ABC Family) that airs infomercials, which run daily from 6:00 to 7:00 a.m. 
Eastern Time. As of May 20, 2012, ESPN Classic is the only remaining ESPN-branded 
network and the only cable channel owned by Disney that does not operate 
a high definition simulcast feed, due to the majority of its content being 
vintage footage produced before the existence of high-definition television; 
outside of specific programming available in widescreen, the channel airs 
all programming in the 4:3 aspect ratio, and it shares the safe area-restricted 
"BottomLine" sports news ticker used for ESPN on ABC broadcasts on sister 
network ABC. It is also the only ESPN network that is not available on 
the network's WatchESPN app for mobile devices as a live feed, likely due 
to licensing restrictions for the archival content aired on the channel; 
the few live events it does carry are otherwise listed as provided by ESPN3 
on WatchESPN. The network's VOD component was launched for existing subscribers 
using Apple TV and Roku devices through WatchESPN on April 28, 2016, likely 
under a modified license to allow content distribution via that platform.[9] 
Older sports programming from the 1990s and earlier has moved almost entirely 
to league-specific networks including the Big Ten Network, MLB Network, 
NBA TV, NHL Network, NFL Network, Tennis Channel, or various team-owned 
regional sports networks. Likewise, archival games from the Southeastern 
Conference and the University of Texas Longhorns have respectively moved 
to the ESPN-operated SEC Network and Longhorn Network. By 2011, ESPN Classic 
drifted toward a mix of reruns of entertainment series in prime time, and 
movies (mostly ESPN Films productions and documentaries such as the 30 
for 30 series) making up the majority of the channel's weekend schedule. 
The majority of "classic" sports events in ESPN Classic's program library 
are college football and basketball games from the past decade which have 
not been claimed by conference networks, along with boxing, professional 
wrestling and bowling events whose copyrights are maintained solely by 
ESPN. The first live event to be shown on ESPN Classic was the implosion 
of the Kingdome in Seattle in March 2000. By 2005 however, ESPN Classic 
began to broadcast more live sporting events, such as special "ESPN Classic 
Live" telecasts of college basketball games that featured veteran commentators 
and older-styled graphics. Around this time, ESPN Classic also began to 
be used as an overflow channel for programming that could not be shown 
on ESPN or ESPN2 due to scheduling conflicts (these have since been moved 
to ESPNEWS); these have included additional college football and basketball 
games, the "ESPN Classic Game of the Week" (a Sunday rebroadcast of an 
ESPN/ABC-televised college football game from the previous Saturday), IRL 
events, live coverage of selected HBCU games (especially since the term 
"classic" is used for special neutral-site HBCU games), and tape-delayed 
UEFA Champions League soccer games. Examples of live sporting events broadcast 
by ESPN Classic due to scheduling overruns on ESPN or ESPN2, include the 
following from the third quarter of 2007: Since then, these games or events 
have been shown live on ESPN Classic: ESPN Classic also served as the official 
broadcaster of the annual Baseball Hall of Fame induction ceremony until 
2009 (when it moved to MLB Network). On August 25, 2012, ESPN Classic aired 
an Atlantic League baseball game between the Sugar Land Skeeters and Bridgeport 
Bluefish; the game featured Major League Baseball legend Roger Clemens 
as a starting pitcher for the Skeeters.[10] (In 2014, ESPN acquired permanent 
rights to Skeeters games, but moved the games to its online portal, ESPN3.) 
While not a live event, in 2008 ESPN Classic also notably broadcast a previously 
untelevised college basketball game played on January 23, 2008 between 
Baylor and Texas A&M, which Baylor won 116-110 in five overtimes. Due to 
an unlikely set of circumstances, the actual game, held at Reed Arena on 
the A&M campus, was never televised. ESPN Classic used the feeds from the 
arena's in-house cameras, normally used to allow highlights to be displayed 
on Jumbotron screens, and the original play-by-play and commentary from 
A&M's radio broadcasters to create a complete telecast. The telecast aired 
on March 5, 2008 on ESPN Classic before the rematch between the two teams 
at Baylor aired on ESPN2.[11] ESPN Classic is also used for ESPN's multiple-perspective 
telecasts under the Full Circle and Megacast brands; in these cases, ESPN 
Classic usually carries the event in question without commentary. Beginning 
in the mid-2000s, ESPN Classic aired a series of specials counting down 
the greatest teams in the history of certain sports, as determined by fan 
balloting. In March 2006, the 1981-82 North Carolina Tar Heels won the 
fan poll for best-ever college basketball team, in October 2006, the 1927 
New York Yankees won for best Major League Baseball team, and in December 
2006, the 1995 Nebraska Cornhuskers won the fan poll for best-ever college 
football team.[12] Each of these programs features expert analysis and 
live interactive voting online at ESPN.com, with the first votes being 
cast one week before the scheduled live show and continued balloting online 
and via text messaging until the end of the show. On January 14, 2007, 
Deadspin.com reported that ESPN Classic would no longer develop or air 
original programming. It was not immediately clear what would replace such 
programs,[13] however, it was assumed that shows that were already produced, 
but not yet aired, would be broadcast at least for a few more months. Over 
the next few months, new episodes of Missing Link, Top 5 Reasons You Can't 
Blame and Ringside aired as scheduled. However, Missing Link was cancelled 
in June 2007, at which time production was also halted on the other two 
programs. ESPN Classic has been parodied in a recurring series of Saturday 
Night Live skits. The sketches depict archived broadcasts of obscure women's 
sports events from the 1980s such as bowling, weight lifting and curling. 
The announcers, Pete Twinkle and Greg Stink, consistently knew nothing 
about the sport, and instead focus on promoting the sponsors, which were 
