ESPNews (pronounced "ESPN News") is an American digital cable and satellite 
television network that is owned by ESPN Inc., a joint venture between 
the Disney–ABC Television Group division of The Walt Disney Company (which 
owns a controlling 80% stake) and the Hearst Corporation (which owns the 
remaining 20%). Known as ESPN3 in its planning stages and proposed as early 
as 1993,[1] ESPNEWS launched on November 1, 1996 and originally focused 
on airing sports news, highlights and press conferences. Since 2010, the 
network has slowly become refocused to carry encores of ESPN's various 
sports debate and entertainment shows, along with video simulcasts of ESPN 
Radio shows, with press conferences now airing during the day on SportsCenter 
as the main ESPN channel has increasingly become news-based outside of 
live sports – rather than carrying recorded sports events. ESPNEWS has 
increasingly been used as an overflow network for programming conflicts 
on the other ESPN networks. Olbermann was also carried live on ESPNEWS 
on weeknights if sports coverage on ESPN2 overflowed into that program's 
regular time slot. As of February 2015, ESPNews is available to approximately 
71,989,000 pay television households (61.8% of households with at least 
one television set) in the United States.[2] ESPNEWS is typically offered 
on the digital tiers of U.S. cable providers, and is carried as a premium 
channel in some areas; satellite providers offer it on their standard package. 
Some regional sports networks that are not associated with Fox Sports Net 
had previously aired ESPNEWS during the overnight or morning hours to provide 
a pseudo-national sports report to their viewers, and to fill time that 
would otherwise be taken up by paid programming or other lower-profile 
programs, though as vertical integration has occurred with the sports networks 
now owned by Comcast (with NBC Sports) and Time Warner Cable, ESPNEWS programming 
has been dropped from these networks; however, its programming is still 
carried during the overnight hours on MASN2. If a national ESPN broadcast 
is blacked out in a particular market, the ESPN broadcast will usually 
be replaced by ESPNEWS. The network was formerly simulcast on ESPN during 
coverage of major breaking sports news before that network expanded SportsCenter 
into additional daytime slots in 2008; additionally, ABC's early morning 
newscast, America This Morning, previously ran a highlights segment rundown 
featuring sports news headlines and highlights of the previous night's 
sporting events presented by an overnight anchor for ESPNEWS. ESPNEWS's 
"bottom line" – a small rectangular area at the bottom fifth of the screen 
which displays sports scores – was formerly more in-depth than the versions 
used by ESPN's other networks. It contained not only scores, but also statistics 
and brief news alerts about the day's sports headlines. On November 11, 
2006, ESPNEWS marked its 10-year anniversary; programming commemorating 
the occasion included a montage of highlights covering the past 10 years 
in sports, along with a broadcast of SportsCenter at 11:00 p.m. Eastern 
Time on that same day. Around that time, the network began airing SportsCenter 
on nights when sporting event telecasts on ESPN and ESPN2, such as college 
football or Major League Baseball games, were scheduled to overrun into 
the program's regular timeslots on ESPN and ESPN2's own sports analysis 
programs, which until 2010 would be the only incidences in which SportsCenter 
would be carried over to ESPNews. XM Satellite Radio and Sirius Satellite 
Radio both provide channels with audio simulcasts of ESPNEWS, with the 
network's television advertisements replaced with radio ads from each service. 
On February 4, 2008, XM rebranded its channel as "ESPN Xtra",[3] and added 
radio programs from local ESPN Radio affiliates as well as the audio simulcast 
of ESPNEWS. The network switched to a near full-screen presentation in 
June 2010, with the network switching its BottomLine to the version used 
on all other ESPN networks in anticipation of the network's prime-time 
programming being rebranded under the SportsCenter umbrella title. In August 
2010, telecasts of SportsCenter on ESPNEWS increased in frequency, now 
airing whenever ESPN or ESPN2 were unable to air the program due to scheduling 
conflicts, along with an afternoon expansion of SportsCenter to ESPNEWS's 
afternoon schedule rather than rolling ESPNEWS-branded coverage, while 
ESPN and ESPN2 carry sports talk and debate programming. The Beat (a show 
showing pop culture and sports action to the tune of a beat) was shown 
while SportsCenter aired on ESPN at 6:00 p.m. Eastern Time until its cancellation 
in July 2011, and replacement by a rebroadcast of the ESPN2 sports talk 
program SportsNation. By early 2013, the only other programs featured on 
ESPNEWS were Highlight Express (a half-hour program showing the previous 
day's sports highlights, running from 10:00 p.m. at night to 3:00 p.m. 
Eastern Time in the afternoon), and the overnight soccer program ESPNFC 
Press Pass. A program titled under the ESPNEWS brand was replaced by SportsCenter. 
The network also airs programming under the College Football Live banner 
on Saturday afternoons during college football season, a whip-around program 
similar to ESPN Goal Line, which gives live look-ins to multiple college 
football games happening simultaneously. On June 13, 2013, Highlight Express 
was canceled due to low ratings and company-wide downsizing, leaving the 
overnight ESPNFC Press Pass, produced primarily for ESPN International, 
as the only program on the network that was exclusively broadcast (within 
the U.S.) on ESPNews;[4][5] that program was removed from the schedule 
in August 2013, after it was supplanted by a new ESPN2 program simply titled 
ESPN FC).[6] Additional runs of SportsCenter and other same-day airings 
of ESPN sports debate programming or the newsmagazine E:60 now fill the 
network's schedule, along with encores such as Friday Night Fights, as 
well as programming affected by sports-induced pre-emptions and overruns 
such as Olbermann during the US Open.[7] The highlights and segment package 
for America This Morning came under the purview of the late-night SportsCenter 
team from Los Angeles from that day forward. ESPNEWS ran a simulcast of 
ESPN Radio's Mike and Mike in the Morning from 2004 to 2005; the program 
moved to ESPN2 in 2006, although it still occasionally airs on ESPNEWS 
when live sports events (such as tennis' French Open or Wimbledon) air 
on ESPN2. When ESPN2 televised the 2009 U.S. Open tennis tournament, SportsNation 
aired on ESPNEWS instead from August 31 to September 11, 2009. As ESPN 
Classic's carriage has declined more into specialty cable tiers due to 
bandwidth conservation concerns and low viewership, along with the fact 
that ESPN Classic does not yet have an HD simulcast channel (the former 
factors eventually led ESPN to transition ESPN Classic into a video on 
demand service beginning in 2014), ESPNEWS has become the primary overflow 
network for situations in which ESPN and ESPN2 carry live sports coverage. 
In 2007, ESPNEWS began broadcasting a half-hour segment of ESPN Radio programming 
on Sunday mornings. The broadcast includes three commentators (a retired 
coach, a retired player, and an analyst) to break down the events of the 
featured sport, while an on-screen graphical list of standings, statistical 
leaders, and other statistics of the featured sport is displayed; the upper-right 
of the screen shows sports highlights (usually of the player or team of 
discussion); a fan comment board appears at the bottom of the screen, above 
the ESPNEWS BottomLine. ESPNEWS operates a high definition simulcast feed, 
which broadcasts in 720p (the default resolution format for The Walt Disney 
Company's television properties) and was launched on March 30, 2008.[8] 
Originally, the layout and graphics were reworked specifically for viewing 
on widescreen television sets, offering additional content not available 
on the channel's standard definition feed.[9] It utilized reworked HD sideline 
graphics, a descendant of the "Rundown" used on overnight editions of SportsCenter 
on ESPN, which wrapped around the top left and bottom of the widescreen 
picture. The HD Sideline offered the display of textual information, headshots, 
news and scores, while still delivering video highlights in the HD format. 
The enhanced format was discontinued in June 2010 and the channel now broadcasts 
in near-fullscreen 16:9, with regular gray and red graphics similar to 
those used by the other ESPN channels. The move was made to "accommodate 
the high number of SportsCenters that moved to the network during the World 
Cup". On May 20, 2012, ESPNEWS switched the presentation of its standard 
definition feed from 4:3 to a downscaled widescreen letterbox version of 
the HD feed, becoming the last ESPN network with a HD companion channel 
to make the conversion to a full-widescreen presentation. ESPNEWS HD was 
added to Dish Network on March 18, 2014, as part of a new carriage agreement 
that ended a four-year dispute that removed existing HD simulcast feeds 
of Disney-owned channels. While not operating under the ESPN name, CTV 
Specialty Television (which is partly owned by ESPN) operates RDS Info, 
a French-language sister network to Réseau des sports (RDS) (which in turn, 
is a sister network to the English language TSN), which maintains a sports 
news format and ticker similar to that used by ESPNEWS, and carries continuous 
broadcasts of Sports 30 (RDS's equivalent of SportsCenter). Until October 
2011, when RDS2 was launched, RDS Info was also used as a part-time secondary 
outlet for RDS in the event of scheduling conflicts. It has since served 
as an occasional tertiary outlet for RDS programming, similar to the role 
