ESPN Deportes (Spanish pronunciation: [i.espiˈen deˈpoɾtes], ESPN Sports) 
is an American Spanish language digital cable and satellite sports television 
channel that is owned by ESPN Inc., a joint venture between the Disney–ABC 
Television Group division of The Walt Disney Company (which owns a controlling 
80% stake) and the Hearst Corporation (which owns the remaining 20%). The 
network is aimed primarily at Hispanic population in the United States. 
The channel broadcasts from studio facilities at ESPN's traditional bases 
of operations in Los Angeles, Coral Gables, Florida and Bristol, Connecticut, 
along with their Mexican base in Mexico City. ESPN Deportes is available 
on most cable and satellite providers including Comcast, Cablevision, AT&T, 
Cox Communications, Time Warner Cable, Bright House Networks, Dish Network 
and DirecTV. According to Nielsen, ESPN Deportes is available to at least 
5.5 million Hispanic households in the United States through a programming 
package that includes the channel. Conversely, ESPN does not maintain second 
audio program audio feeds on any of their English-language channels in 
the United States (except for ABC's SAP Spanish coverage for the NBA Finals), 
allowing full exclusivity to ESPN Deportes for the Spanish rights to their 
properties. There is a possibility of ESPN launch a Brazilian Portuguese 
language network aimed primarily at the Brazilian population in the United 
States somewhere in the future, mainly after ESPN broadcast the 2014 FIFA 
World Cup in Portuguese, using the commentary from ESPN Brasil. ESPN Deportes 
launched as an alternate Spanish-language programming feed in July 2001, 
when ESPN and Major League Baseball began offering Spanish-language telecasts 
of the Home Run Derby and select Sunday Night Baseball game telecasts. 
By 2003, this simulcast was expanded to all Sunday Night Baseball and Sunday 
Night Football game broadcasts, as well as boxing. ESPN Deportes became 
a separate 24-hour sports cable channel on January 7, 2004. In 2007, ESPN 
Deportes began producing a daily English language segment featured during 
the overnight editions of its American parent network's SportsCenter program, 
hosted by Michele LaFountain and several other personalities. ESPN Deportes 
launched a 720p high definition simulcast feed in April 2011, though as 
many American Spanish-language cable network packages remain with the majority 
of networks in standard definition, ESPN Deportes maintains their "BottomLine" 
news ticker in a form designed for 4:3 sets, matching the form seen on 
ESPN Classic and ESPN on ABC broadcasts. On December 7, 2015, the network 
debuted its new four-studio production facility in Mexico City with the 
Spanish version of SportsCenter. Jorge Eduardo Sánchez and Carolina Padrón 
anchored the first SportsCenter from the new studios which also featured 
well-known Mexican journalist José Ramón Fernández interviewing Mexican 
football managers Tomás Boy and Miguel Herrera. On January 4, 2016, the 
network moved all their shows produced in Mexico to the new facilities, 
including Fútbol Picante, Los Capitanes and Cronómetro. The network has 
the rights to all the events listed below but some do not air on the network 
due to scheduling conflicts, instead they are streamed online on ESPN Deportes+. 
ESPN Deportes Radio launched on October 5, 2005, as the only 24-hour Spanish-language 
radio network aimed at U.S. Hispanic sports fans. Since its launch, the 
radio network has grown to include 45 affiliates nationwide, reaching close 
to 80% of the Hispanic population in the United States. The network is 
also available on Sirius Satellite Radio, and is streamed on the ESPN Deportes 
Radio mobile app for iOS and Android devices, and on ESPNDeportesRadio.com. 
In addition to broadcasting live sports events, the radio network features 
various sports news and analysis programs (such as the football analysis 
program Jorge Ramos y su Banda; sports news program Raza Deportiva; morning 
drive talk show ESPN al Despertar; and the boxing news program A los Golpes). 
ESPN also operates radio networks, stations and programs in Latin America: 
Launched in September 2000, ESPNDeportes.com covers more than 20 different 
sports with news, statistics, analysis and real-time scores aimed at U.S. 
and Latin American readers. The website also features video and audio content; 
fantasy games; live event webcasts; live chats with players, ESPN experts 
and other sports personalities; enterprise journalism; user-generated content 
including message boards and "conversations", with fans able to post comments 
on selected news items and blogs. ESPN Deportes La Revista is a monthly 
Spanish-language magazine first published in August 2005, and distributed 
in conjunction with Grupo GW. ESPN Deportes La Revista offers a mix of 
original content targeted to the interests of U.S. Hispanics, as well as 
material from the English-language publication ESPN: The Magazine. The 
editorial section covers sports such as Major League Baseball, as well 
as winter baseball from the Dominican Republic, Mexico Puerto Rico and 
Venezuela; boxing; the NFL; international football; auto racing; and action 
sports. A digital edition of La Revista is available through Zinio. ESPN 
Deportes +, the Spanish-language version of ESPN3, is a multi-platform 
sports streaming service that is expected to launch in 2014. The service 
provides comprehensive live sports content in Spanish available for streaming 
on computers, smartphones, tablets and Xbox Live. ESPN Deportes+ offers 
additional exclusive Spanish-language programming of over 200 sports events, 
supplementary to the content carried by the ESPN Deportes television network. 
The service will potentially reach approximately 7.7 million Hispanic households. 
