ESPN (originally an initialism for Entertainment and Sports Programming 
Network) is a U.S.-based global cable and satellite television channel 
owned by ESPN Inc., a joint venture between The Walt Disney Company (which 
operates the network) and the Hearst Corporation (which owns a 20% minority 
share). ESPN broadcasts primarily from studio facilities located in Bristol, 
Connecticut. The network also operates offices in Miami, New York City, 
Seattle, Charlotte, and Los Angeles. John Skipper currently serves as president 
of ESPN, a position he has held since January 1, 2012. While ESPN is one 
of the most successful sports networks, there has been much criticism of 
ESPN, which includes accusations of biased coverage,[1] conflict of interest, 
and controversies with individual broadcasters and analysts. As of February 
2015[update], ESPN is available to approximately 94,396,000 paid television 
households (81.1% of households with at least one television set) in the 
United States.[2] In addition to the flagship channel and its seven related 
channels in the United States, ESPN broadcasts in more than 200 countries,[3] 
operating regional channels in Australia, Brazil, Latin America and the 
United Kingdom, and owning a 20% interest in The Sports Network (TSN) as 
well as its five sister networks in Canada. In 2011, ESPN's history and 
rise was chronicled by These Guys Have All the Fun, a nonfiction book written 
by James Andrew Miller and Tom Shales and published by Little, Brown, & 
Co.[4] Bill Rasmussen conceived the concept of ESPN in late May 1978, after 
he was fired from his job with the World Hockey Association's New England 
Whalers. One of the first steps in Bill and his son Scott's (who had also 
been let go by the Whalers) process was finding land to build the channel's 
broadcasting facilities. The Rasmussens first rented office space in Plainville, 
Connecticut. However, the plan to base ESPN there was put on hold because 
a local ordinance prohibiting buildings from bearing rooftop satellite 
dishes. Available land area was quickly found in Bristol, Connecticut (where 
the channel remains headquartered to this day), with funding to buy the 
property provided by Getty Oil, which purchased 85% of the company from 
Bill Rasmussen on February 22, 1979, in an attempt to diversify the company's 
holdings. This helped the credibility of the fledgling company, however 
there were still many doubters to the viability of their sports channel 
concept. Another event that helped build ESPN's credibility was securing 
an advertising agreement with Anheuser-Busch in the spring of 1979; the 
company invested $1 million to be the "exclusive beer advertised on the 
network."[5] ESPN launched on September 7, 1979, beginning with the first 
telecast of what would become the channel's flagship program, SportsCenter. 
Taped in front of a small live audience inside the Bristol studios, it 
was broadcast to 1.4 million cable subscribers throughout the United States.[5] 
ESPN's next big break came when the channel acquired the rights to broadcast 
coverage of the early rounds of the NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament. 
It first aired the NCAA tournament in March 1980, creating the modern day 
television event known as "March Madness". The channel's tournament coverage 
also launched the broadcasting career of Dick Vitale, who at the time he 
joined ESPN, had just been fired as head coach of the Detroit Pistons. 
In April of that year, ESPN created another made-for-TV spectacle, when 
it began televising the NFL Draft. It provided complete coverage of the 
event that allowed rookie players from the college ranks to launch their 
brands in front of a national television audience in ways they were not 
able to previously. The next major stepping stone for ESPN came over the 
course of a couple of months in 1984. During this time period, the American 
Broadcasting Company (ABC) purchased 100% of ESPN from the Rasmussens and 
Getty Oil.[5] Under Getty ownership, the channel was unable to compete 
for the television rights to major sports events contracts as its majority 
corporate parent would not provide the funding, leading ESPN to lose out 
for broadcast deals with the National Hockey League (to USA Network) and 
NCAA Division I college football (to TBS). For years, the NFL, NBA and 
Major League Baseball refused to consider cable as a means of broadcasting 
some of their games.[6] However, with the backing of ABC, ESPN's ability 
to compete for major sports contracts greatly increased, and gave it credibility 
within the sports broadcasting industry. Later in 1984, the U.S. Supreme 
Court ruled that the NCAA could no longer monopolize the rights to negotiate 
the contracts for college football games, allowing each individual school 
to negotiate broadcast deals of their choice. ESPN took full advantage 
and began to broadcast a large number of NCAA football games, creating 
an opportunity for fans to be able to view multiple games each weekend 
(instead of just one), the same deal that the NCAA had previously negotiated 
with TBS.[6] ESPN's breakthrough moment occurred in 1987, when it secured 
a contract with the NFL to broadcast eight games during that year's regular 
season – all of which aired on Sunday nights, marking the first broadcasts 
of Sunday NFL primetime games. ESPN's Sunday Night Football games would 
become the highest-rated NFL telecasts for the next 17 years (before losing 
the rights to NBC in 2006).[7] The channel's decision to broadcast NFL 
games on Sunday evenings actually resulted in a decline in viewership for 
the daytime games shown on the major broadcast networks, marking the first 
time that ESPN had been a legitimate competitor to NBC and CBS, which had 
long dominated the sports television market. In 1992, ESPN launched ESPN 
Radio, a national sports talk radio network providing analysis and commentary 
programs (including shows such as Mike and Mike in the Morning and The 
Herd) as well as audio play-by-play of sporting events (including some 
broadcast by the ESPN television channel).[5] On October 10, 1993, ESPN2 
– a secondary channel that originally was programmed with a separate lineup 
of niche sports popular with males 18–49 years old (with snowboarding and 
the World Series of Poker as its headliners) as well as serving as an overflow 
channel for ESPN – launched on cable systems reaching to 10 million subscribers.[5] 
It became the fastest growing cable channel in the U.S. during the 1990s, 
eventually expanding its national reach to 75 million subscribers.[5] Ownership 
of ABC, and in effect control of ESPN, was acquired first by Capital Cities 
Communications in 1985, and then by The Walt Disney Company in 1996. In 
2012, ESPN generated more revenue for Disney than any of its other properties 
combined.[8] Alongside its live sports broadcasts, ESPN also airs a variety 
of sports highlight, talk, and documentary-styled shows. These include: 
Many of ESPN's documentary programs (such as 30 for 30 and Nine for IX) 
are produced by ESPN Films, a film division created in March 2008 as a 
restructuring of ESPN Original Entertainment, a programming division that 
was originally formed in 2001. 30 for 30 started airing in 2009 and continues 
airing to this day. Each episode is through the eyes of a well known filmmaker 
and has featured some of the biggest directors in Hollywood.[9] Since September 
2006, ESPN has been integrated with the sports division of sister broadcast 
network ABC, with sports events televised on that network airing under 
the banner ESPN on ABC;[10][11] much of ABC's sports coverage since the 
rebranding has become increasingly limited to secondary coverage of sporting 
events whose broadcast rights are held by ESPN (such as NBA games, The 
Open Championship, and the X Games and its related qualifying events) as 
well as a limited array of event coverage not broadcast on ESPN (most notably, 
the NBA Finals). ESPN2 launched on October 1, 1993, originally formatted 
as a more informal and youth-oriented channel than ESPN aimed at adults 
between 18 and 34 years of age, carrying a broad mix of event coverage 
from conventional sports (such as auto racing, college basketball and NHL 
hockey) to extreme sports (such as BMX, skateboarding and motocross).[19] 
The "ESPN BottomLine," a ticker displaying sports news and scores during 
all programming that is now used by all of ESPN's networks, originated 
on ESPN2 in 1995.[20] In the late 1990s, ESPN2 was gradually reformatted 
to serve as a secondary outlet for ESPN's mainstream sports programming.[21] 
ESPN Classic is a digital cable and satellite television network that launched 
in 1995 as Classic Sports Network, founded by Brian Bedol and Steve Greenberg. 
ESPN Inc. purchased Classic Sports Network in 1997 for $175 million,[22] 
rebranding the channel to its current name the following year. The channel 
broadcasts notable archived sporting events (originally including events 
from past decades, but now focusing mainly on events from the 1990s and 
later), sports documentaries and sports-themed movies. ESPNews is a digital 
cable and satellite television network that was launched on November 1, 
1996, originally focusing solely on sports news, highlights and press conferences. 
Since August 2010, the network has gradually incorporated encores of ESPN's 
various sports debate and entertainment shows and video simulcasts of ESPN 
Radio shows, in addition to sports news programming (which since the 2013 
cancellation of Highlight Express,[23] consists mainly of additional runs 
of SportsCenter); ESPNews also serves as an overflow feed due to programming 
conflicts caused by sporting events on the other ESPN networks. ESPN+ is 
a digital cable and satellite television network that launched in 2002; 
this signal is seen in Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Chile, Bolivia, Argentina, 
Uruguay, Paraguay and from November 21, 2013, also in Venezuela. ESPN+ 
signal displays events in these sports: Football, Tennis, Rugby, Cycling, 
Baseball, Horse Riding, Hockey and sports programs about: Football, Tennis, 
Rugby, Polo, Hockey, Motor, etc. It is divided into two signals: Atlantic 
and Pacific. ESPN Deportes (Spanish pronunciation: [i.es.piˈen deˈportes], 
"ESPN Sports") is a digital cable and satellite television network that 
was originally launched in July 2001 to provide Spanish language simulcasts 
of certain Major League Baseball telecasts from ESPN. It became a 24-hour 
sports channel in January 2004. ESPNU is a digital cable and satellite 
television network that launched on March 4, 2005, and focuses on college 
athletics including basketball, football, baseball college swimming, and 
hockey. The Longhorn Network is a digital cable and satellite television 
network that was launched on August 26, 2011, focusing on events from the 
Texas Longhorns varsity sports teams of the University of Texas at Austin.[24] 
It features events from the 20 sports sanctioned by the Texas Longhorns 
athletics department, along with original programming (including historical, 
academic and cultural content). SEC Network is a digital cable and satellite 
television network that launched on August 14, 2014, focusing on the coverage 
of sporting events sanctioned by the Southeastern Conference. Created as 
a result of a 20-year broadcast partnership between the two entities, the 
network is a joint venture between the conference and ESPN Inc. (which 
operates the network).[25][26] ESPN, as with Disney/ABC's other broadcast 
and cable networks, transmits HD programming in the 720p resolution format; 
this is due to the fact that ABC executives had proposed a progressive 
scan signal that resolves fluid and high-speed motion in sports better, 
particularly during slow-motion replays.[28] In 2011, ESPNHD began to downplay 
its distinct promotional logo in preparation for the conversion of its 
standard definition feed from a 4:3 full-screen to a letterboxed format 
(via the application of the AFD #10 display flag), which occurred on June 
1 of that year. ESPN owns and operates regional channels in Australia, 
Brazil, and Latin America. In Canada, ESPN is a minority owner of The Sports 
Network (TSN) and the French-language Réseau des sports (RDS). ESPN also 
has a minority stake in J Sports in Japan. In the United Kingdom, BT Group 
operates the channel BT Sport ESPN. ESPN has been a part of popular culture 
since its inception. Many movies with a general sports theme will include 
ESPN announcers and programming into their storylines such as in the 2004 
comedy DodgeBall: A True Underdog Story, which gently lampoons the channel's 
multiple outlets by referencing the fictional ESPN8, "The Ocho",[33] a 
reference to a nickname formerly used by ESPN2, "the Deuce". Many jokes 
have been made by comedians about fake obscure sports that are shown on 
ESPN. Dennis Miller mentioned watching "sumo rodeo", while George Carlin 
stated that ESPN showed "Australian dick wrestling". One of several Saturday 
Night Live sketches poking fun at the network features a fictional ESPN2 
program called Scottish Soccer Hooligan Weekly, which includes a fake advertisement 
for "Senior Women's Beach Lacrosse". SNL also parodies ESPN Classic with 
fake archived obscure women's sports event telecasts from the 1980s (such 
as bowling, weightlifting and curling), with announcers who know nothing 
about the sport, and instead focus on the sponsors, which were always for 
feminine hygiene products. In the early years of ESPN, Late Night with 
David Letterman even featured a "Top Ten List" segment poking fun at some 
of the obscure sports seen on ESPN at the time. One of the more memorable 
sports on the list was "Amish Rake Fighting". A recurring skit on Late 
Night with Jimmy Fallon named Sports Freak-Out! is a parody of SportsCenter's 
overexcited anchors. An occasional joke used in comedic television and 
film involves people getting ESP (the common abbreviation for extrasensory 
perception, that was coincidentally the working abbreviation for the channel 
prior to its launch) confused with ESPN, often including someone saying 
a sentence along the lines of "I know these kind of things, I've got ESPN". 
Sports video game releases by Electronic Arts in the early 1990s featured 
a logo for a fictional sports network, EASN (Electronic Arts Sports Network); 
this was soon changed to EA Sports after ESPN requested that the company 
stop using the similar name. There are also at least 22 children that are 
named after the network.[34][35] Throughout its history, ESPN has received 
accusations of biased coverage, conflicts of interest, and controversies 
with individual broadcasters and analysts.[by whom?] ESPN has been criticized 
for focusing too much on college and professional football and basketball, 
while not showing enough ice hockey or women's athletics.[citation needed] 
