ESPN Brasil is a Brazilian cable television network, launched in March 
1989. ESPN Brasil was the first country-specific version of ESPN outside 
the United States, launched in June 1995. The channel has covered major 
sporting events, like the 1996, 2000, 2004 and 2008 Summer Olympics; the 
1998 and 2006 FIFA World Cup and the 1999, 2003 and 2007 Pan-American Games. 
High ratings and prestige in the segment have been marks of the channel; 
it also won the APCA award twice, in 1995 for "Best Sports Programming" 
and in 1998 for "Best Coverage of the 1998 FIFA World Cup". Despite having 
a team that's regarded as one of the best in Brazilian sports broadcasting 
and important broadcasting rights for international competitions like La 
Liga, Premier League and the Bundesliga, major local series rights have 
historically not been present; the Campeonato Brasileiro, Copa do Brasil 
and the states' championships are held by local Organizações Globo and 
SporTV. ESPN, however, has purchased the rights to broadcast the 2009, 
2010 and 2011 editions of the Copa do Brasil for TV and Campeonato Paulista, 
Copa Libertadores de América, Campeonato Brasileiro Série A and Copa Sudamericana 
for radio. Recently ESPN Brasil made a partnership with Rádio Eldorado[clarification 
needed] to broadcast sports on radio. The new Rádio Eldorado ESPN used 
Eldorado's radio assets and the team of commentators from ESPN Brasil. 
It was renamed Rádio Estadão ESPN in 2007 due to a partnership agreement 
with the O Estado de S. Paulo newspaper.[1] In 2005 the company incorporated 
ESPN International coverage, starting to broadcast in two channels. Before 
this date, programs such as the SportsCenter International Edition, MLB 
and the NFL were transmitted directly from Bristol, Connecticut, with Portuguese 
audio from Andre Adler, Marco Alfaro, Sergio Cesario, Roby Porto, José 
Inácio Werneck, and Roberto Figueroa. Since 2005, shows and games are recorded 
and broadcast from its studios in São Paulo, though morning schedules continue 
to include USA and Latin American programs. Prior to May 2011, programs 
produced by ESPN Brasil generally did not use in-game score graphics, though 
international programs had them. Beginning that month, ESPN Brasil began 
using the same score and other graphics used by the US channel. In November 
2011, 1 month to start the FIFA Club World Cup, the ESPN lost broadcast 
rights in Brazil with problem in broadcasts. The rights stay now with BandSports. 
The Fox Sports is coming to Brazil, and tried the rights of UEFA Champions 
League from ESPN without success. After tried take rights of Barclays Premier 
League and of Bundesliga. Without success, the target now is the narrator 
Gustavo Villani. Negotiation with him is in progress. In February, The 
Fox Sports Brazil contracted Rodrigo Bueno, ex-ESPN commantator. In March, 
the ESPN'S network in Brazil started with the broadcast 100% in HD with 
sports events and original programs. This is the same practice of ESPN 
in USA. The three channels of ESPN in Brazil is broadcast fully in HD. 
In October 2013, ESPN launched a second screen app, ESPN Sync, to connect 
to broadcasts of football matches.[2][3] Six separate channels of ESPN 
exist in Brazil:[4] (Considering events broadcast by ESPN, ESPN Brasil 
