ESPN America was a British-based European sports network, focusing on professional 
and collegiate sports of the United States and Canada. Originally launched 
on 5 December 2002 as NASN (the North American Sports Network), ESPN America 
broadcast a selection of top North American professional and collegiate 
sports leagues including Major League Baseball (MLB), National Basketball 
Association (NBA), National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) and 
Canadian Football League (CFL), 24 hours a day on digital cable and digital 
satellite television. Formerly operated by Setanta Sports with backing 
from Benchmark Capital Europe, it was acquired by the American sports media 
company ESPN in March 2007.[1] It was subsequently re-branded as ESPN America 
on 1 February 2009 before closing on 1 August 2013. Programming on ESPN 
America varied from country to country. The channel operated three feeds 
throughout Europe, the Middle East and North Africa. In the United Kingdom, 
Ireland, and the Nordic countries events shown on ESPN America included 
Major League Baseball, the College World Series, NCAA college football 
and college basketball, the NCAA Men's Ice Hockey Championship Frozen Four 
plus the Arena Football League, Major League Lacrosse, and the NCAA Men's 
Lacrosse Championship Final Four. In continental Europe, the Middle East, 
North Africa and Iceland the broadcast also included NFL programmes. ESPN 
America also showed the Little-League World Series from Williamsport, PA 
and the Nathan's Hot Dog Eating Contest from Coney Island in Brooklyn, 
NY. NASN paid £11.6m in March 2006 for the rights to show ten live MLB 
games a week.[2] In 2006, ESPN programmes, including Baseball Tonight, 
Around the Horn, The Sports Reporters and Pardon the Interruption were 
dropped from the schedule as the contract between NASN and ESPN ended. 
However, they returned from 1 April 2007 after ESPN acquired the channel.[3] 
ESPN America also aired other ESPN US produced single-sport programmes, 
such as College Football Live, College GameDay, NBA Fastbreak and NASCAR 
Now. In addition, to mark the 30th anniversary of ESPN, the channel has 
been showing ESPN Films' 30 for 30 series. On 28 October 2009, ESPN America 
began to be broadcast in 16:9 widescreen.[4] On 1 March 2010, ESPN America 
began showing a European edition of SportsCenter, anchored by Michael Kim.[5] 
The 30-minute programme broadcast five days a week at 6am UK/7am CET with 
three repeat showings following immediately after, with an updated show 
at 10.30pm UK/11.30pm CET. The show was filmed at ESPN’s headquarters in 
Bristol, Connecticut, USA. Up until the 2011–12 NHL season, ESPN America 
held the rights to live and delayed NHL matches as well as round-up programming 
such as NHL On The Fly, however these rights were not renewed for the UK, 
Ireland & the Nordic countries and are now held by different networks across 
Europe. However, they still hold the rights for other countries throughout 
continental Europe, such as Germany. ESPN America acquired the American 
Hockey League, a minor North American Hockey League broadcast rights as 
a replacement for the UK, Ireland and the Nordic countries. In April 2012, 
SportsCenter moved from five to seven days a week with a new start time 
of 8am UK/9am CET. At this point, ESPN stopped producing a local version 
of SportsCenter, opting instead to broadcast an edited version of the 2am 
ET show from Los Angeles, cut to fit 45 minutes through removing commercial 
breaks and stories on European sports such as soccer. This show is then 
repeated at 8.45am, 4pm & 4.45pm (UK time). In late 2006, former owners 
Benchmark Capital Europe and Setanta Sports agreed to sell the network 
to ESPN for €70m.[6] The sale was completed in March 2007 but the network 
continued to be part of the Setanta Sports Pack on satellite television 
until June 2009 when Setanta UK went into administration.[1][7] The network 
became known as ESPN America on 1 February 2009 to coincide with Super 
Bowl XLIII. The channel continued to provide the same lineup of North American 
sports programming.[8] On 1 March 2010, the Nordic Canal Digital launched 
an HD version of ESPN America.[9] The channel launched in the UK on the 
Sky platform on 21 June 2010.[10] It was launched in Portugal on ZON Multimédia's 
cable platform on 24 November 2010 and later on MEO (Portugal)'s cable 
platform on 15 July 2011. In Germany, the Channel started airing over the 
Sky Germany platform on 27 October 2010. In Italy, the HD channel was launched 
on 1 February 2012. On 25 February 2013, BT Group agreed to acquire ESPN's 
UK and Ireland TV channels business, consisting of ESPN and ESPN America, 
the value of the deal was not disclosed, but BT is understood to have paid 
"low tens of millions".[11] At midnight on 1 August 2013 the channel ceased 
its operations in all Europe, Middle East and Africa.[12] In the UK and 
Ireland most contents were moved to the local version of ESPN, whereas 
the non-North American content was added to the newly launched BT Sport. 
Meanwhile, in Germany rights were sold to new channel Sport 1 US. Digital 
live and on-demand coverage of the majority of content from ESPN America 
