ESPN Radio is an American sports radio network. It was launched on January 
1, 1992 under the original banner of "SportsRadio ESPN." ESPN Radio is 
located at ESPN headquarters in Bristol, Connecticut. The network airs 
a regular schedule of daily and weekly programming as well as live coverage 
of sports events including Major League Baseball, Major League Soccer, 
National Basketball Association, Army Black Knights football, College Football 
Playoff, Championship Week and UEFA Champions League games. ESPN Radio 
is broadcast to hundreds of affiliate stations as well as to subscribers 
of Sirius XM Radio in the United States and Canada. The network's content 
is also streamed online and via mobile applications and other media devices 
via TuneIn, and several affiliates and owned stations are also available 
through the service.[1] In 2014, ESPN partnered with TuneIn to create 24/7 
streams of its most popular programming including Mike & Mike and SVP & 
Russillo.[2] Select iHeartMedia-owned ESPN Radio affiliates are available 
through iHeartRadio. ESPN Radio currently has four company-owned stations 
in New York City, Los Angeles, Chicago, and Dallas, with two others operated 
in New York and Boston under a local marketing agreement (LMA) with their 
owners. Each station (including the second New York City station) is partnered 
with an ESPN local website named for the city and featuring a completely 
separate staff of sportswriters and reporters for each market who give 
their local viewpoints of local sports (for example, espnnewyork.com for 
New York). Most other markets have ESPN Radio affiliates, whether they 
be part-time or have their entire format dedicated to ESPN Radio. The Walt 
Disney Company did not include the ESPN Radio network or the Radio Disney 
network in the 2007 sale of ABC Radio to Citadel Broadcasting.[3] ESPN 
Radio Network was formed in September 1991 by both ESPN, Inc. and Capital 
Cities/ABC, Inc.'s ABC Radio Networks. Twenty-five stations had already 
signed on as affiliates as of its announcement on September 5, 1991 with 
an expected total of 200 at the January launch. Shelby Whitfield, executive 
producer of ABC Radio Sports, and John A. Walsh, executive editor of ESPN, 
were placed in charge of the venture.[4] The network launched as Sports 
Radio ESPN on January 1, 1992.[5] At first, ESPN Radio broadcast only on 
weekends.[6] The network debut with 16 hours running on 147 affiliates 
in 43 states. Its initial programming consisted of news shows, update segments 
and occasional features.[7] By 1996, it expanded to weekdays[6] with a 
show hosted by The Fabulous Sports Babe, Nancy Donnellan. One hour of that 
show was simulcast on ESPN2 (1-2 p.m. Eastern time). Two years later, Tony 
Bruno and Mike Golic were brought together for a new morning show, the 
"Bruno & Golic Morning Show" which aired until Bruno left the network in 
2000. Mike Greenberg was named as Bruno's replacement, and the morning 
show became "Mike & Mike", which still airs today (and is also simulcast 
on ESPN2). In January, 2010, Mike & Mike celebrated their 10-year anniversary 
on ESPN Radio. Dan Patrick was a mainstay in afternoons until his departure 
from ESPN in 2007. Gradually, ESPN added more dayparts and became a 24-hour 
service. In 1995, ESPN Radio gained national radio rights to the NBA. In 
1997, it gained the national radio rights to MLB.[citation needed] Disney 
purchased WEVD from the Forward Association in September 2002 to become 
WEPN, ESPN Radio flagship station.[8] Disney spun off and merged on June 
12, 2007 its ABC Radio Networks with Citadel Broadcasting into Citadel 
Communications while retaining its ESPN Radio and Radio Disney networks 
and stations.[9][10] Weekday programming[11] Saturday programming MLB on 
ESPN Radio often airs on Saturday afternoon with varied times week to week, 
those times are usually in-tune with the FOX Saturday Baseball Telecast 
which airs its games at Four or Seven PM with the start time being one 
hour prior to first pitch. Sunday programming In 2013, ESPN Radio also 
broadcast their first non-sporting event, a radio simulcast of the Miss 
