Estadio Augusto César Sandino is a multi-use stadium in Santa Clara, Cuba. 
It is currently used mostly for baseball games and is the home stadium 
of Villa Clara Naranjas. The stadium holds 20,000 people. Sandino Stadium 
"Orange fury" | La furia naranja, el estadio sandino de Santa Clara La 
Furia Naranja (Orange Fury) is the nickname of Villa Clara province baseball 
team, the name also given since 2009 to everything painted in orange throughout 
the city. The architects Emilio Castro and Gustavo R. Arnavat projected 
the Sandino in 1963 using the technique of articulated precast molding. 
In an effort to take the National Sport to every corner of the country, 
they were looking for a design solution that was less expensive and easier 
to adapt to the rest of Cuban cities without baseball facilities. It has 
an area of 2,900 m2 (3,468 sq yd) and capacity for 10,000 people. It opened 
on January 8, 1965. The substructure is made out of concrete cast in-situ. 
Prefabricated structures such as vaults and PEPSA joints that hold the 
ceiling tiles were made using prefabricated reinforced concrete. The lobby's 
floor is tiled with Cuban marble, while the rest of the structure has polished 
concrete floor. The gallery of the stadium has 148 columns from 2 to 12 
meters high sustaining 100 beams. It has 10 lighting towers 33 meters high 
with 320 bulbs of 1500 Watts. The stadium's water supply is provided by 
gravity from an elevated tank of 10,000 gallon capacity. It also has among 
its facilities a dorm room with 208 beds, nursery, bathrooms, lockers, 
warehouses and offices. This structure's design was first built in Santa 
Clara city and subsequently repeated in the cities of Camagüey, Matanzas 
and Pinar del Rio. Then slowly to the rest of the country's cities and 
towns. The Cienfuego's stadium executed on September 5, 1977 is a good 
example of how the Sandino architectural typology could be re-adapted and 
slightly modified to create a similar looking building with some variants. 
[2] The stadium's namesake is Nicaraguan revolutionary Augusto César Sandino. 
Artists that have performed in the stadium: ¨Sandino¨ Stadium from a close 
building. Full House in the Stadium. Sandino Stadium in Santa Clara, Cuba. 
