Left – 325 ft. Left Center 345 ft. Center – 400 ft. Right Center - 345 
ft. The Estadio Latinoamericano (Spanish for Latin American Stadium) is 
a stadium in Havana, Cuba. It is primarily used for baseball. Gran Estadio, 
a spacious pitchers' park with prevailing winds blowing in and boasting 
a playing surface and lighting system of major-league quality, was built 
in 1946 as the top baseball park in Latin America. Located in the Cerro 
neighborhood, it opened with the name Gran Estadio de La Habana and currently 
holds about 55,000 people. In 1999, it also hosted an exhibition series 
between the Cuban National Team and the Baltimore Orioles. The Estadio 
Latinoamericano is popularly known in Cuba as "The Colossus of Cerro". 
It was initially named Gran Estadio de La Habana (Great Stadium of Havana), 
but it was then named Estadio del Cerro (Stadium of Cerro) until 1961, 
when it was renamed as Estadio Latinoamericano (Latin American Stadium) 
when Cuban professional baseball was stopped. It opened on October 26, 
1946, surpassing La Tropical Stadium as the largest stadium in Havana. 
The stadium debuted on October 26, 1946 before a crowd of 31,000 fans for 
a clash between the Almendares and Cienfuegos baseball teams, the largest 
crowd that had attended a sports event in Cuba. Almendares won the game 
9-1. The Venezuelan Alejandro Carrasquel, who played for the Washington 
Senators in the Major League, threw the first pitch of the game. In its 
70 years, the stadium has been utilised for diverse spectacles including 
popular dance performances and boxing matches. The stadium was renovated 
and expanded in the year 1971, with an enlargement of its stands, increasing 
the stadium to its present capacity of 55,000 spectators, and an extension 
of its gardens. On March 22, 2016, the Tampa Bay Rays faced the Cuban national 
baseball team in an exhibition game. This was attended by numerous dignitaries, 
including President of the United States Barack Obama and Raul Castro. 
This game represented the thaw between the two countries that had occurred 
in recent years, and was broadcast live on ESPN. The Rays were selected 
after a lottery conducted by Major League Baseball. The Rays won 4-1. The 
stadium has also been used for political purposes. In 1956, it was the 
location of a student demonstration headed by José Antonio Echeverría, 
