This Year in Baseball Awards — now called the "Esurance MLB Awards" — were 
initiated by Major League Baseball in 2002 They are honors given annually 
to the most extraordinary baseball performances, players, managers, and 
executives, as voted on by fans, media, team front-office personnel, former 
players, and the Society for American Baseball Research (SABR). In 2010, 
MLB began referring to the awards as the "GIBBY Awards" (Greatness in Baseball 
Yearly).[1] In 2015, the awards were renamed by MLB as the "Esurance MLB 
Awards". The winners continue to receive a GIBBY trophy. Several new awards 
were added, including some that are based on social media.[2][3][4][5][6] 
Each winner is selected by a vote of fans, MLB alumni, each team's front-office 
personnel, and members of the media.[7] Fans cast their votes via the online-voting 
system on MLB.com, the official website of Major League Baseball. Over 
thirteen million fans voted in 2010.[8] In the first year, there were six 
categories of awards: Player of the Year, Pitcher of the Year (including 
starters and closers, but not setup men), Setup Man of the Year, Defensive 
Player of the Year, Play of the Year, and Blooper of the Year. In 2003, 
three new awards were added (for a total of 9): Rookie of the Year, Manager 
of the Year, and Individual Performance of the Year. The Blooper of the 
Year was renamed Bizarre Play of the Year. In 2004, one category was divided 
into two (for a total of 10): Starting Pitcher of the Year and Closer of 
the Year (from Pitcher of the Year). Two categories were renamed: Hitter 
of the Year (formerly Player of the Year) and Blooper of the Year (its 
original name, instead of Bizarre Play of the Year). In 2007, two new categories 
were added (for a total of 12): Moment of the Year and Postseason Moment 
of the Year. In 2008, a 13th category was added: Executive of the Year. 
The Blooper of the Year was renamed Oddity of the Year. The Performance 
of the Year was renamed Single-Game Performance of the Year. In 2009, a 
14th category was added: Unsung Star of the Year. The Single-Game Performance 
of the Year was changed back to Performance of the Year. In 2010, the name 
of the awards was changed to the "GIBBY Awards" (for "Greatness in Baseball 
Yearly"). Five new categories were added (for a total of 19): Breakout 
Player of the Year, Dependable Player of the Year, Postseason MVP, Game 
of the Year, and Fan Moment of the Year. Two categories were renamed: Player 
of the Year (its original name, instead of Hitter of the Year) and X-Factor 
Player of the Year (formerly Unsung Star of the Year). In 2011, a new category 
was added: Comeback Player of the Year. One category was dropped: Dependable 
Player of the Year. Two categories were renamed: Wow Factor of the Year 
(formerly X-Factor Player of the Year) and Walk-Off of the Year (formerly 
Game of the Year).[9] In 2012, two new categories were added: MLB MVP and 
Storyline of the Year. Two categories were dropped: Wow Factor of the Year 
and Moment of the Year. Two categories were divided into four (for a total 
of 21): Breakout Hitter and Breakout Pitcher (from Breakout Player of the 
Year) and Hitting Performance and Pitching Performance (from Performance 
of the Year). Two categories were renamed: Hitter of the Year (its former 
name—from 2004 to 2009—instead of its original name, Player of the Year—in 
2002, 2003, 2010, and 2011) and Cut4 (formerly Fan Moment of the Year).[10] 
In 2013, two categories were added (for a total of 23): Moment of the Year 
(first added in 2007 but dropped in 2012) and Lifetime Achievement.[11] 
In 2014, the name of every award – except two (Most Valuable Major Leaguer 
and Postseason MVP) – was changed from "of the Year" to "Best," as in "Best 
Rookie."[12] One category was added: Best Outfield Throw. One category 
was dropped: Lifetime Achievement. Another category (Best Postseason Moment) 
was replaced by three new categories (for a total of 25): Best Postseason 
Play, Best Postseason Walk-Off, and Best Postseason Storyline. Four categories 
were re-named: Most Valuable Major Leaguer (formerly MLB MVP), Best Everyday 
Player (formerly Hitter of the Year), Best Breakout Everyday Player (formerly 
Breakout Hitter of the Year), and Best Bounceback Player (formerly Comeback 
Player of the Year). In 2015, the name of the awards was again changed, 
to the "Esurance MLB Awards," with each winner still receiving a GIBBY 
Award.[2] Eight categories were added: Social Media Personality, Social 
Media Post, Celebrity Fan, MLB Interview, Call (TV), Call (Radio), Video 
Board Moment, and Trending Topic. Nine categories were dropped: Closer, 
Setup Man, Outfield Throw, Storyline, Oddity, Walk-Off, Postseason Play, 
Postseason Walk-Off, and Postseason Storyline. Two categories were divided 
into four: Play (Offense) and Play (Defense) (from Play) and Fan Catch 
and Player-Fan Interaction (from Cut4 Topic, which was formerly Fan Moment). 
Four categories were consolidated into two (for a total of 24): Breakout 
Player (from Breakout Everyday Player and Breakout Pitcher) and Performance 
(from Hitting Performance and Pitching Performance). Two categories were 
re-named: Best Major Leaguer (formerly Most Valuable Major Leaguer) and 
Best Major Leaguer, Postseason (formerly Postseason MVP).[2] In 2016, five 
categories were dropped: Breakout Player, Bounceback Player, Celebrity 
Fan, MLB Interview, and Video Board Moment. Two categories were consolidated 
into one (for a total of 18): Call, TV/Radio (from Call, TV, and Call, 
Radio). Two categories were renamed: Best Hitter (formerly Best Everyday 
Player) and Best Pitcher (formerly Best Starting Pitcher).[8] The order 
