Everyone's Hero is a 2006 American computer-animated adventure sports comedy 
family film,[2] written by Robert Kurtz and Jeff Hand and directed by Colin 
Brady, Christopher Reeve (who was working on this film at the time of his 
death[3]), and Daniel St. Pierre, with music by John Debney. The majority 
of this film was produced by IDT Entertainment in Toronto with portions 
outsourced to Reel FX Creative Studios. It was distributed by 20th Century 
Fox, and released theatrically on September 15, 2006. Everyone's Hero earned 
$16 million worldwide during its theatrical run. The film stars William 
H. Macy, Rob Reiner, Brian Dennehy, Raven-Symoné, Robert Wagner, Richard 
Kind, Dana Reeve, Jake T. Austin, Joe Torre, Mandy Patinkin, Forest Whitaker 
and Whoopi Goldberg. Everyone's Hero was released on DVD on March 20, 2007 
by 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment. In 1932, the dawn of the Great 
Depression, a 10-year old young baseball fan Yankee Irving (Jake T. Austin), 
whose father Stanley (Mandy Patinkin) works as a janitor for New York City's 
Yankee Stadium, dreams of playing for the Yankees but can't even play sandlot 
baseball well enough to avoid being picked last. One day beside the sandlot, 
he finds and befriends a talking baseball he names Screwie (Rob Reiner). 
While father and son are in the stadium, a thief steals Babe Ruth's famous 
bat Darlin' (Whoopi Goldberg). Yankee's father, who was working his shift 
at the time, is blamed and accordingly fired. The true thief is Lefty Maginnis 
(William H. Macy), a pitcher for the Chicago Cubs. Lefty works for Cubs 
owner Napoleon Cross (Robin Williams), who desires to see the Cubs defeat 
the Yankees during the 1932 World Series. Stealing the bat back, Yankee 
decides to return it to Ruth—and thereby exonerate his father—by journeying 
across the country to Chicago, where the next World Series' games will 
be played. Darlin' is able to speak, as does her counterpart Screwie, who 
she constantly argues and bickers with (though near the end, they finally 
become friends). Much of the plot is driven by Lefty's comic attempts to 
retrieve the bat from Yankee, with slapstick results. Other scenes involve 
Yankee meeting others who will help him in his quest: several hobos (Ed 
Helms, Richard Kind, and Ron Tippe); Marti (Raven-Symoné), an African American 
girl; her baseball player father Lonnie Brewster (Forest Whitaker); and 
in Chicago, Babe Ruth himself (Brian Dennehy). A series of improbable coincidences 
allows Yankee himself to bat for the Yankees, resulting in the archetypal 
home run (technically, a series of errors after an infield pop-up that 
allow him to round the bases). This restores the morale of the Yankees, 
who score 7 more runs to take the lead and win the World Series. Cross 
tries to talk Babe Ruth out of accepting the victory, saying that Yankee 
is too young to be a counting player. This leads to the arrest of Cross, 
and also Lefty. Yankee also successfully exonerates his father(who gets 
job back). Yankee returns home, now knowing what is truly important in 
baseball. Additional voices by Ritchie Allen, Rochelle Hogue, Sondra James, 
Matthew Laborteaux, Greta Martin, Christie Moreau, Sean Oliver, Charles 
Parnell, Dennis Pressey, Tyler James Williams and Cornell Womack. With 
the exception of Ruth, none of the film's characters are based on real 
people. However, there is a scene near the end where Ruth is at dinner, 
and talks to a man named Lou, probably a representation of Lou Gehrig, 
as Gehrig was active in the sport at the time. The film takes a largely 
nostalgic tone in its presentation of 1930s American life, though the Great 
Depression is alluded to, as is the existence of separate Negro Leagues. 
(Marti's father is a member of the Cincinnati Tigers, though the team was 
actually founded two years later, in 1934.) The announced morals of the 
movie are to "keep swinging" (that is, never give up), and the importance 
of family. The actual events of the 1932 series, though dramatic, were 
not followed in the film (perhaps because of rights issues over depictions 
of the game). For example, the Yankees swept the Cubs in the series, but 
in the film, they lost three games to set up the classic game 7 scenario. 
In one point of the film, Screwie refers to Superman, which is anachronistic 
due to the fact that Superman did not appear until 1938, and the film is 
set in 1932, though the reference is clearly intended as a nod to late 
co-director Reeve, who played Superman in several films. Everyone's Hero 
was released on DVD on March 20, 2007 by 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment. 
The movie was released on Blu-ray on March 5, 2013 and is exclusive to 
Walmart stores.[4] In its opening weekend, the film grossed $6.1 million 
in 2,896 theaters in the United States and Canada, ranking #3 at the box 
office, behind Gridiron Gang and The Black Dahlia. By the end of its run, 
Everyone's Hero grossed $14.5 million domestically and $2.1 million internationally, 
for an approximate total of $16.6 million worldwide.[5] At Metacritic,[2] 
which assigns a normalized rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream 
critics, the film received an average score of 51%, based on 20 reviews, 
which indicates "mixed" reviews. Another aggregator, Rotten Tomatoes, scored 
the film 41%, based on 68 reviews. The website's critical consensus reads, 
"Everyone's Hero is such a predictable and bland tale that it'll appeal 
mostly to little kids; others seeking something in Pixar's league are looking 
in the wrong ballpark."[6] New York Daily News, positive review, "Whoever 
wanders into the theater should leave a winner". L.A. Weekly, positive 
review, "The movie's antique Rockwellian look is its greatest pleasure". 
Entertainment Weekly, positive review, "Everyone's Hero re-creates Depression-era 
America with surprisingly agreeable anachronistic panache, but a sassy 
ball and bat don't cut it as compelling cartoon characters, and the not-so-human 
humans never quite do either (Babe Ruth looks like Shrek)". New York Post, 
mixed review, "Everyone's Hero, a tame CGI cartoon for the simple-minded: 
the very young, the very old and Yankee fans". TV Guide, negative review, 
"An anemic adventure that epitomizes generic feature animation". In the 
United States, Cartoon Network aired Everyone's Hero on April 12, 2008. 
Cartoon Network later added the movie to its rotating lineup again on November 
5, 2016, treating it as the network premiere of the movie. In Latin America, 
Cartoon Network Latino aired the film on November 23, 2011. In Asia, Disney 
Channel premiered May 29, 2012. It also aired on Disney XD in the United 
States on April 8, 2013 as well as March 7, 2014. The soundtrack, released 
on the Columbia Records/Sony Music Soundtrax labels, features tracks by 
the star of the film Raven-Symoné, Grammy-winners Wyclef Jean, Brooks & 
