Ewing Marion Kauffman (September 21, 1916 – August 1, 1993) was an American 
pharmaceutical entrepreneur, philanthropist, and Major League Baseball 
owner. Born on a farm near Garden City, Missouri, the son of John S. Kauffman 
and the former Effie May Winders,[1] Kauffman grew up with his sister Irma 
Ruth Kauffman in Kansas City, Missouri. He was bedridden for a year at 
age 11 with a heart ailment, during which he read as many as 40 books a 
month. Kauffman graduated from Kansas City's Westport High School in 1934, 
and later attended Kansas City Junior College,[1] a predecessor to Metropolitan 
Community College. He was an Eagle Scout and as an adult would be awarded 
the Distinguished Eagle Scout Award.[2] After serving in the United States 
Navy in World War II, Kauffman worked as a pharmaceutical salesman until 
1950, when he formed Marion Laboratories with a $5,000 investment, operating 
it initially out of the basement of his home. He reportedly chose to use 
his middle name rather than his last name in order to not appear to be 
a one-man operation. Marion Laboratories – with Kauffman as chairman – 
had revenues of $930 million the year before it merged, in 1989, with Merrell 
Dow Pharmaceuticals to form Marion Merrell Dow.[1] The company sale made 
more than 300 millionaires. Following the merger, Kauffman became chairman 
emeritus of the merged company.[1] Kauffman established the Ewing Marion 
Kauffman Foundation[3] in the mid-1960s with the same sense of opportunity 
he brought to his business endeavors, and, with the same convictions. Kauffman 
wanted his foundation to be innovative – to fundamentally change people's 
lives. He wanted to help young people, especially those from disadvantaged 
backgrounds, get a quality education that would enable them to reach their 
full potential. He saw building enterprise as one of the most effective 
ways to realize individual promise and spur the economy. Today, the mission 
of the Kauffman Foundation follows his vision by focusing its grant making 
and operations on two areas: advancing entrepreneurship and improving the 
education of children and youth.[4] Ewing Kauffman established the Kansas 
City Royals, bringing major league baseball back to Kansas City. After 
efforts to bring partners into the Royals ownership group failed, Kauffman 
dictated that the new owner would keep the Royals in Kansas City, sell 
the team for a fair price, and have proceeds from the sale go to local 
charities. On November 8, 2007, he was nominated to enter the Baseball 
Hall of Fame as part of the 2008 class;[5] he was not elected. In 1988, 
Kauffman made a commitment to a group of high school students that if they 
would stay in school, stay off drugs, avoid teenage parenthood, commit 
to being good citizens and graduate on time, he would fund their post-secondary 
education. To be eligible for the program, parents also had to agree to 
be involved in their child's education by attending meetings and participating 
in parent/teacher organizations and other activities. Project Choice was 
offered to students at Kauffman's alma mater, Westport High School, and 
to selected students at five high schools in Kansas City, Missouri and 
Kansas City, Kansas.[clarification needed] At a time when other cities 
were building cookie-cutter, multipurpose sports facilities Kauffman went 
against the trend to build a home for the team, Royals Stadium, that was 
decades ahead of its time. The stadium was the sole baseball-only facility 
built in the major leagues between 1962 and 1991. Fans in one of the sport's 
smallest markets responded by filling the stadium, topping the magic two-million 
attendance mark a total of ten times and seven seasons in a row. The stadium 
opened on April 10, 1973, as part of the Harry S Truman Sports Complex 
in Kansas City. Designed by Kivett and Meyers architects in Kansas City, 
the stadium incorporated the best of Dodger Stadium, in Los Angeles; and 
Angel Stadium of Anaheim, in Anaheim, California, with 40,793 seats, all 
facing second base and arranged in three tiers. A construction strike delayed 
the opening of the stadium so Kauffman added money to make sure it would 
open in time for the 1973 baseball season and the 1973 Major League Baseball 
All-Star Game. The stadium's prominent features include water fountains 
beyond the outfield fence and a ten-story-high scoreboard shaped like the 
Royals crest, topped by a gold crown. The 322-foot-wide (98-metre) water 
spectacular is the largest privately funded fountain in the world. The 
stadium featured an artificial-turf field, which was replaced in 1995 with 
grass. Kauffman made his last public appearance at the stadium on May 23, 
1993, when he was inducted into the Kansas City Royals Hall of Fame. One 
month before Kauffman died, the facility was officially renamed in his 
honor in a ceremony at the stadium on July 2, 1993; it is the only stadium 
in the American League named in honor of a person. In 1962, he married 
the former Muriel Irene McBrien.[1] He had two children from a previous 
marriage. Suffering from bone cancer, he died, age 76, at his home in Mission 
Hills, Kansas, a suburb of Kansas City.[1] His remains are interred at 
the Ewing and Muriel Kauffman Memorial Garden next to his wife's remains, 
