The Ex-Cubs Factor (or Ex-Cub Factor) is a seemingly spurious correlation 
that was seen as essentially a corollary to the Curse of the Billy Goat. 
Widely published in the 1990s, the hypothesis asserted that since the appearance 
by the Chicago Cubs in the 1945 World Series, any baseball team headed 
into the World Series with three or more former Cubs on its roster has 
"a critical mass of Cubness" and a strong likelihood of failure.[1] It 
is utterly impossible for a team with three or more ex-Cubs to win the 
World Series The theory was developed in October 15, 1981 by Ron Berler, 
a freelance journalist and Cubs fan. Berler posited in an article that 
"it is utterly impossible for a team with three or more ex-Cubs to win 
the series."[1] Berler based this on a pattern that he observed in the 
post-1945 era; 1945 being the last time the Chicago Cubs made it to a World 
Series until 2016. Berler cited many examples of teams with three or more 
ex-Cubs on their teams that reached the World Series and lost: including 
the 1958 Milwaukee Braves, the 1966 Los Angeles Dodgers, and the 1978 Los 
Angeles Dodgers. The 1978 Dodgers, according to Berler, had lost the 1977 
World Series with three ex-Cubs on their roster and seemed to be doing 
well the next season when they traded one of those ex-Cubs (Mike Garman) 
away and began playing excellently. However, four weeks later, the Dodgers 
traded for ex-Cub Bill North and, in the words of Berler, the "team suffered 
an immediate tailspin and barely beat Cincinnati to the pennant."[1] The 
1978 Dodgers lost the World Series to the Yankees leading to Berler's hypothesis 
of three ex-Cubs making it impossible to win a championship. In addition, 
the 1980 Kansas City Royals lost the World Series as well with 3 ex-Cubs. 
In the original article, Berler predicted that based on this pattern the 
1981 New York Yankees would not win the World Series because they had five 
ex-Cubs on their roster (Oscar Gamble, Bobby Murcer, Dave LaRoche, Rick 
Reuschel, and Barry Foote), this prediction went against the odds which 
heavily favored the Yankees at the time.[2] His prediction about the 1981 
World Series based on this hypothesis was proved correct with the Yankees 
losing to the Dodgers, four games to two. Berler relates the relationship 
to the inherent "cubness" that ex-Cubs take to their future teams. In the 
original article, he wrote that "the ballclub possesses eerie, bewitching 
powers over its players" and that "'Cubness'...is synonymous with the rankest 
sort of abject failure, and is a condition chronic among all Cubs, past 
and present."[1] Mike Royko, who popularized the term in his columns in 
Chicago, wrote that cubness was a "virus" where "Three or more ex-Cubs 
could infect an entire team with the will to lose, no matter how skillful 
that team might appear."[3] Berler adopted a similar explanation in later 
articulations, writing that the virus "attacks all who've played for the 
Cubs, even if only for a single day. There is no inoculation, no cure. 
When traded to another team, ex-Cubs become carriers of this debilitating 
disease—the ticks of baseball. Any World Series team infested with three 
or more of them turns addled and confused, losing all ability to win."[4] 
A team with no ex-Cubs probably has the edge on a team that has even one 
in the World Series Mike Royko developed an additional hypothesis contending 
that "A team with no ex-Cubs probably has the edge on a team that has even 
one." The key evidence provided for this was the 1986 World Series which 
had the New York Mets (with no ex-Cubs) defeat the Boston Red Sox (with 
a dramatic error by ex-Cub Bill Buckner).[5] This hypothesis was largely 
discredited in the 2003 World Series with the Florida Marlins (who had 
ex-Cub Lenny Harris) defeating the New York Yankees (who had no ex-Cubs), 
though Harris did not play in the World Series.[4] Since 1945, of the 23 
teams to reach the World Series with three or more Cubs players, only 3 
have won the World Series (the 1960 Pirates, the 2001 Diamondbacks, and 
the 2008 Phillies).[6] Since its articulation in 1981, the Ex-Cubs Factor 
has been used to predict and explain post-season and World Series defeats 
for many different baseball teams. During the 1980s, the ex-Cubs factor 
was used to explain a number of losses by teams. It was used, in a letter 
to the editor, as a reason for the loss by the San Diego Padres (who ironically 
beat the Cubs to get to the Series) in the 1984 World Series (with three 
ex-Cubs) and by the collapse of the 1985 Toronto Blue Jays who had added 
ex-Cub Cliff Johnson on August 28 and then blew a 3-1 lead over the Royals 
in the 1985 American League Championship Series.[7] The theory became more 
prominent in 1990 when it was popularized by syndicated Chicago Tribune 
columnist Mike Royko and continued predictions by Ron Berler. On October 
16, 1990, Berler again asserted the ex-Cubs factor as the reason that the 
favored Oakland Athletics (with ex-Cubs Scott Sanderson, Dennis Eckersley, 
and Ron Hassey) would lose in the 1990 World Series (which they did by 
getting swept by the Cincinnati Reds).[8] It was again cited by Berler 
as a reason for the defeat of the league-leading 1991 Pittsburgh Pirates 
in the 1991 National League Championship Series to the Atlanta Braves.[9] 
Mike Royko used the ex-Cubs factor to predict the playoff collapse of the 
104-win 1993 Atlanta Braves (which did occur in the 1993 National League 
Championship Series).[3] The ex-Cubs factor hypothesis was used to predict 
the San Francisco Giants (with three ex-Cubs Shawon Dunston, Benito Santiago 
and Tim Worrell) loss to the Anaheim Angels in the 2002 World Series.[10] 
The ex-Cubs factor hypothesis has also been used to explain the results 
of the 2004 American League Championship Series (ALCS) and the 2004 World 
Series, both won by the Boston Red Sox. In the 2004 ALCS, the Yankees (with 
six ex-Cubs) lost a 3-0 game lead to the Boston Red Sox, the first time 
in Major League Baseball history. The Red Sox (with only two ex-Cubs) then 
went on to defeat the St. Louis Cardinals (with three ex-Cubs) in the World 
Series.[11][12] The 2009 World Series resulted in a win by the New York 
Yankees (with two ex-Cubs) over the Philadelphia Phillies (with three ex-Cubs).[13] 
Berler's study of the ex-Cub factor since 1945 revealed only one exception 
since 1945: the 1960 Pittsburgh Pirates, who won the World Series with 
three ex-Cubs on their roster. Berler contends that one of those ex-Cubs, 
Don Hoak, spent so little time in Chicago, that he did not fully develop 
what Berler called his "Cubness". Berler quoted pitcher Jim Brosnan as 
saying that "Hoak is quite possibly the only man who ever conquered his 
Cubness".[1] The 2001 Arizona Diamondbacks similarly had four ex-Cubs on 
their roster (Miguel Batista, Mark Grace, Mike Morgan, and Luis Gonzalez) 
but defeated the New York Yankees in the 2001 World Series. Mark Grace 
declared in an post-game interview that "We beat the ex-Cub Factor!".[6] 
The sympathy many fans felt for New York City following the September 11 
attacks, topped off by the four ex-Cubs on the Arizona roster, seemed to 
stack up against the Diamondbacks. But Arizona won Game 6 in a lopsided 
score, and then won Game 7 in a come-from-behind finish, scoring a pair 
of runs in the ninth inning to win the Series. In fact, two of the four 
former Cubs played prominent roles in that ninth inning, Mark Grace getting 
a lead off single and Luis Gonzalez driving in the winning run with a single. 
The 1960 Pittsburgh Pirates and the 2001 Arizona Diamondbacks (both with 
victories over the New York Yankees) are the only teams that have won the 
World Series in Game 7 walk-off victories.[6] The 2008 Philadelphia Phillies 
team was declared prior to the post-season by Berler as "doomed this year 
by the Ex-Cub Factor" (with three ex-Cubs Scott Eyre, Jamie Moyer, and 
Matt Stairs on their roster).[4] However, the Phillies defeated the Los 
Angeles Dodgers (a team also with three ex-Cubs) in the National League 
Championship Series and the Tampa Bay Rays (one ex-Cub) in the 2008 World 
Series. The Ex-Cubs Factor hypothesis has been applied to other professional 
baseball teams in both positive and negative references. For example, sports 
writer Jeff Blair has argued there exists an "ex-Expos factor" where number 
of former Montreal Expos players correlates with post-season success.[14] 
Jim Caple for ESPN.com has similarly proposed an ex-Mariners factor (or 
XMF) which explores the excellent play by ex-Mariners for other teams in 
