Canadian National Exhibition Stadium (commonly known as Exhibition Stadium 
and CNE Stadium) was a multi-purpose stadium that formerly stood on the 
Exhibition Place grounds, in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Originally built 
for Canadian National Exhibition events, the stadium served as the home 
of the Toronto Argonauts of the Canadian Football League, from 1959–1988, 
the Toronto Blue Jays of Major League Baseball from 1977–1989, and the 
Toronto Blizzard of the North American Soccer League from 1979–1983.[3][4] 
The stadium hosted the Grey Cup game 12 times over a 24-year period. In 
1999, the stadium was demolished and the site was used for parking until 
2006. BMO Field was built on the site in 2007 roughly where the northern 
end of the covered grandstand once stood. The grandstand (known as CNE 
Grandstand) was used extensively throughout the summer months for hosting 
concerts.[5] Exhibition Stadium was the fourth stadium to be built on its 
site since 1879.[1] When the original grandstand was lost due to a fire 
in 1906, it was quickly rebuilt.[1] A second fire destroyed the stadium 
in 1947, which led to the city constructing a covered north-side grandstand 
(known as CNE Grandstand) for $3 million in 1948.[6][7][8][9][10] When 
the Toronto Argonauts moved from Varsity Stadium for the 1959 season, a 
smaller $650,000 bleacher section was added along the south sideline.[1][11][12] 
In this form the stadium seated 33,150.[13] The inaugural game at the renovated 
Exhibition Stadium was an exhibition interleague game between the hometown 
Toronto Argonauts of the Canadian Football League (CFL) and the Chicago 
Cardinals of the National Football League (NFL) on August 5, 1959. The 
game was the first time a NFL team played in Toronto.[14][15] It was also 
the first NFL–CFL exhibition match held since the establishment of the 
CFL in 1958, and marked the beginning of a three-year, four game exhibition 
series between the leagues. When the 58th Grey Cup was played at the stadium 
in 1970, Calgary Stampeders coach Jim Duncan described the condition of 
the natural-grass surface as "a disgrace."[16] In January 1972, Metropolitan 
Toronto Council voted 15–9 to spend $625,000 to install artificial turf. 
The vote passed despite five councillors changing their vote to oppose 
the motion, because the cost had increased from a previous estimate of 
$400,000.[17] Two months later, contracts totaling $475,000 were approved 
to install the turf, with work to be completed by June.[18] In 1974, the 
city voted to reconfigure the stadium to make it compatible for baseball,[19] 
leading to the arrival of Major League Baseball in Toronto in 1977 in the 
form of the Toronto Blue Jays. Originally planned to cost $15 million[19] 
before growing to $17.5 million, the renovations, which were funded by 
the city and province, added seating opposite to the covered grandstand 
on the first base side and curving around to the third base side.[1][2][20][21][22] 
Football capacity was increased from 33,000 to 55,000.[19] Although the 
stadium was expanded to accommodate baseball, the new seats were first 
used for football and allowed the 64th Grey Cup to be watched by a then-Grey 
Cup record crowd of 53,467. For baseball, the stadium originally seated 
38,522, but by the Blue Jays' second season it increased to 43,739.[23] 
However, only about 33,000 seats were used during the MLB regular season 
(see below). Even in its new form, Exhibition Stadium was problematic for 
hosting both baseball and football. Blue Jays' President Paul Beeston noted 
Exhibition Stadium "wasn't just the worst stadium in baseball, it was the 
worst stadium in sports."[24] Like most multi-purpose stadiums, the lower 
boxes were set further back than comparable seats at baseball-only stadiums 
to accommodate the wider football field. Compared to U.S. stadiums, this 
was magnified by the fact that Canadian football fields are considerably 
larger than American football fields.[note 1] Many of the seats down the 
right field line and in right-centre were extremely far from the infield; 
they actually faced each other rather than the action. Some seats were 
as far as 820 feet (250 m) from home plate — the greatest such distance 
of any stadium ever used as a principal home field in the major leagues.[23] 
As the original grandstand was used for the outfield seats, these were 
the cheapest seats but were the only ones that offered protection from 
the elements;[25] the Blue Jays were the only MLB team using such a stadium. 
Because the full length of the third-base line had to be fitted between 
the north stand (the original grandstand) and the new south stand, they 
could no longer be parallel to each other. As a compromise between placements 
suitable for the two stands, the football field was rotated anticlockwise 
away from the north stand.[26] Thus, the only seats as close to the field 
as before were those near the eastern end zone, and no seats had as good 
a view of the whole field as the centre-field seats before the conversion. 
Although the Argonauts recorded average attendances of above 40,000 fans 
per game in the first few seasons following the stadium's expansion, by 
the mid 1980s average attendance had fallen to less than 30,000 fans per 
game. Relatively close to Lake Ontario, the stadium was often quite cold 
at the beginning and end of the baseball season. The first Blue Jays game 
played there on April 7, 1977 was the only major league game ever played 
with the field covered entirely by snow. The Blue Jays had to borrow Maple 
Leaf Gardens' Zamboni to clear off the field. Conditions at the stadium 
led to another odd incident that first year. On September 15, Baltimore 
Orioles manager Earl Weaver pulled his team off the field because he felt 
the bricks holding down the bullpen tarps were a hazard to his players. 
This garnered a win by forfeit for the Jays – the only time in major league 
baseball history since 1914 that a team deliberately forfeited a game (as 
opposed to having an umpire call a forfeiture).[citation needed] An April 
30, 1984 game against the Texas Rangers was postponed due to 60 mph (97 km/h) 
winds. Before the game, Rangers manager Doug Rader named Jim Bibby as his 
starting pitcher, stating "he's the heaviest man in the world, and thus 
will be unaffected by the wind." However, Bibby would never make it to 
the mound. Two Rangers batters complained about dirt swirling in their 
eyes, and Blue Jays starting pitcher Jim Clancy was blown off balance several 
times. The umpires stopped the game after only six pitches. After a 30-minute 
delay, the game was called off.[citation needed] The stadium also occasionally 
had problems with fog, once causing a bizarre inside-the-park home run 
for Kelly Gruber, when an otherwise routine pop up was lost by the outfielders 
in the thick fog.[27] Due to its position next to the lake, and the food 
disposed by baseball and football fans, the stadium was a popular feeding 
ground for seagulls. New York Yankees outfielder Dave Winfield was arrested 
on August 4, 1983 for killing a seagull with a baseball. Winfield had just 
finished his warm-up exercises in the 5th inning and threw a ball to the 
ball boy, striking a seagull in the head. The seagull died, and some claimed 
that Winfield hit the bird on purpose, which prompted Yankees manager Billy 
Martin to state "They wouldn't say that if they'd seen the throws he'd 
been making all year. It's the first time he's hit the cutoff man". The 
charges were later dropped. Winfield would later play for the Blue Jays, 
winning a World Series with the club in 1992. Exhibition Stadium's fate 
was sealed during the 70th Grey Cup in 1982, popularly known as "the Rain 
Bowl" because it was played in a driving rainstorm that left most of the 
crowd drenched. Many of the seats were completely exposed to the elements, 
forcing thousands of fans to watch the game in the concession section. 
To make matters worse, the washrooms overflowed. In attendance that day 
was then-Ontario Premier Bill Davis, and the poor conditions were seen 
by over 7,862,000 television viewers in Canada (at the time the largest 
TV audience ever in Canada).[28] The following day, at a rally at Toronto 
City Hall, tens of thousands of people who were there to see the Toronto 
Argonauts began to chant, "We want a dome! We want a dome!" So too did 
others who began to discuss the possibility of an all-purpose, all-weather 
stadium.[citation needed] Seven months later, in June 1983, Premier Davis 
formally announced that a three-person committee would look into the feasibility 
of building a domed stadium at Exhibition Place. The committee consisted 
of Paul Godfrey, Larry Grossman and former Ontario Hydro chairman Hugh 
Macaulay.[29] By 1983, officials with Metro Toronto, the Blue Jays and 
Argonauts agreed to abandon Exhibition Stadium once a domed stadium could 
be built closer to Toronto's downtown, which would eventually become SkyDome.[citation 
needed] Exhibition Stadium lay mostly dormant over the decade following 
the opening of SkyDome, except for the occasional concert or minor sporting 
event. The World Wrestling Federation (now WWE), needing a new venue after 
a decision to discontinue events at Maple Leaf Gardens in 1995, held one 
card at the stadium on August 24, 1996 for a crowd of 21,211. The main 
event was Shawn Michaels vs. Goldust in a ladder match.[30] The stadium 
was demolished in 1999 and the site is now the location of BMO Field and 
a parking lot. A few chairs from the stadium can be found on the southeast 
corner just north of the bridge to Ontario Place's main entrance. The remaining 
chairs were sold off to collectors during the dismantling of the stadium.[citation 
needed] Although not widely used while the stadium was in operation (given 
the well known references to Cleveland's Municipal Stadium), the term "Mistake 
by the Lake" has been used more recently in reflection by Toronto media 
to refer to the now-demolished venue.[31] On October 26, 2005, the City 
of Toronto approved $69 million CAD to build BMO Field, a new 20,000 seat 
stadium, in almost the same spot where the old stadium once was. The governments 
of Canada and Ontario combined for $35 million CAD, with the city paying 
$9.8 million CAD, and Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment paying the rest, 
including any runoff costs. Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment got the naming 
rights of the new stadium, and has a Major League Soccer team in the new 
stadium, named Toronto FC. The stadium also held the 2007 FIFA U-20 World 
Cup along with other cities in Canada. BMO Field was initially built as 
a soccer-specific stadium with field dimensions that were too small to 
accommodate a Canadian football field, and was operated as such until 2015 
when MLSE owners Larry Tanenbaum and Bell Canada agreed to purchase the 
Toronto Argonauts. As part of the agreement, BMO Field is being renovated 
to allow the Argonauts to move back to the site in time for the 2016 CFL 
season. The stadium is also scheduled to host the 104th Grey Cup. For the 
2015 Pan American Games and Parapan American Games, the old stadium footprint 
(parking lot) became the Chevrolet Beach Volleyball Centre. The temporary 
venue had bleachers and a playing area filled with 3,000 metric tonnes 
of sand.[32] After the Pan American Games, the venue was torn down to allow 
for setup of rides and restore parking spaces for the 2015 Canadian National 
Exhibition opening on August 21 of the same year. ^ A. Game was suspended 
with 9:29 remaining in the fourth quarter due to extremely dense fog, and 
