An expansion team is a brand new team in a sports league, usually from 
a city that has not hosted a team in that league before, formed with the 
intention of satisfying the demand for a local team from a population in 
a new area. Sporting leagues also hope that the expansion of their competition 
will grow the popularity of the sport generally. The term is most commonly 
used in reference to the North American major professional sports leagues 
but is applied to sports leagues in other countries with a closed franchise 
system of league membership. The term comes from the expansion of the sport 
into new areas. That sometimes results in the payment of an expansion fee 
to the league by the new team and an expansion draft to populate the new 
roster. In North America, expansion often takes place in response to population 
growth and geographic shifts of population. Such demographic change results 
in financial opportunities to engage with the new market as consumers of 
sports demand local teams to support. Major League Baseball (MLB) was limited 
to 16 teams located north and east of St. Louis, Missouri for the first 
half of the 20th century. During that time, the United States population 
doubled and expanded to the south and west. Rival interests explored the 
possibility of forming a rival league in the untapped markets. To forestall 
that possibility, one of the measures that MLB took was to expand by four 
teams in 1961 and 1962. Over the past four decades, MLB expanded further, 
to its current 30-team membership. In the context of MLB, the term "expansion 
team" is also used to refer to any of the 14 teams enfranchised in the 
second half of the 20th century. Leagues that are new and/or financially 
struggling may also admit large numbers of expansion teams to pocket more 
revenue from expansion fees. Indoor American football leagues are notorious 
for doing so: the leagues can double the number of teams and have many 
new teams fail within a year or two. When an expansion team begins play, 
it is generally stocked with less talented free agents, inexperienced players, 
and veterans nearing retirement. Additionally, prospective owners may face 
expensive fees to the league as well as high startup costs such as stadiums 
and facilities, and the team is also at a disadvantage in that it has not 
been together as a team as long as its opponents and thus lacks the cohesiveness 
other teams have built over years. As a result, most expansion teams are 
known for their poor play during their first few seasons, which can be 
exacerbated by the fact that leagues sometimes expand by two or four teams 
in one season for scheduling reasons, such as eliminating the possibility 
of a team being without an opponent on a preferred date by an odd number 
of teams. In those cases, expansion teams must compete with their expansion 
rivals for available talent. Expansion teams are not usually doomed to 
mediocrity forever, as most leagues have policies which promote parity, 
such as drafts and salary caps, which gives some expansion teams the opportunity 
to win championships only a few years after their first season. The Arizona 
Diamondbacks won the 2001 World Series only three years after the team's 
founding in 1998 even though Major League Baseball is generally considered 
among the least conducive to parity because of the lack of a salary cap. 
The Milwaukee Bucks also won the 1971 NBA Finals in only their third year 
of existence, greatly helped by drafting Kareem Abdul-Jabbar in the 1969 
draft and acquiring Oscar Robertson from Cincinnati Royals before the 1970-71 
season began. The Chicago Fire won MLS Cup in 1998 in just their first 
year of existence in Major League Soccer. In 2011, the Portland Timbers 
started their MLS franchise, and they won the MLS Cup in 2015. The Florida 
Panthers made the Stanley Cup Finals in only their 3rd season in the National 
Hockey League (NHL) even though, like MLB, the league then had no salary 
cap. The National Football League, despite being considered the most generous 
in its revenue sharing and the strictest with its salary cap, has had far 
more difficulty bringing expansion teams up to par with their more established 
brethren: none of the four teams started with new rosters since 1995 (when 
the salary cap was imposed) won a Super Bowl (the Carolina Panthers have 
come closest, reaching the NFC Championship Game in their second season 
and reaching the Super Bowl twice, but have never won); the most recent 
addition to the league, the Houston Texans, took over a decade to reach 
the playoffs, and the Cleveland Browns have yet to win a playoff game in 
the nearly two decades since its return to the league in 1999. Most teams 
are considered as an expansion team usually in their first season and sometimes 
in their second season, but especially for purists, Major League Baseball 
teams can be considered "expansion teams" indefinitely. A team that moves 
to another location and/or changes its name is not an expansion team. If 
it moves, it is known as a relocated, and if the name changes, the team 
is known as a renamed team. In response to a negative attitude that some 
fans have towards relocated teams,[according to whom?] there have recently 
been instances where relocating clubs change their identity completely; 
name, colours and mascot; but because the roster is the same and the league 
does not expand as a result, they are not regarded as expansion teams. 
One of two noted exceptions are the Baltimore Ravens of the National Football 
League (NFL): when the Cleveland Browns moved to Baltimore, an agreement 
was reached for which the history of the pre-1996 Cleveland Browns remained 
in that city and was claimed by the post-1999 Browns when the league placed 
a new franchise there even though the actual team and roster had moved 
to Baltimore to become the Ravens.[citation needed]The other noted exception 
are the New Orleans Pelicans, who were previously known as the New Orleans 
Hornets after relocating to New Orleans from Charlotte, N.C., in 2002. 
After the 2012 sale of the Hornets, new owner Tom Benson changed the name, 
colors and mascot from Hornets to Pelicans. The Charlotte Hornets segment 
of the franchise's history was sold to the then-Charlotte Bobcats (themselves 
formerly considered a 2004 expansion team) and the 2002 New Orleans Hornets 
are now officially regarded as an expansion team. Cities and regions with 
large populations that lack a team are generally regarded to be the best 
candidates for new teams. As these leagues grow, the number of expansion 
teams The European Super League in rugby league has added teams from France 
and Wales to cover a great demographic spread. Only extant teams are listed. 
Two charter franchises, the Chicago (now Arizona) Cardinals and Chicago 
