Exposition Park was the name given to three historic stadiums, located 
in what is today Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The fields were used mainly 
for professional baseball and American football from c. 1879 to c. 1915. 
The ballparks were initially located on the north side of the Allegheny 
River in Allegheny City, Pennsylvania. The city was annexed into Pittsburgh[3] 
in 1907, which became the city's North Side, located across from Pittsburgh's 
downtown area. Due to flooding from the nearby river, the three stadiums' 
exact locations varied somewhat. The final version of the ballpark was 
between the eventual sites of Three Rivers Stadium and PNC Park. In 1903, 
the third incarnation of Exposition Park was the first National League 
ballpark to host a World Series game. The Western University of Pennsylvania 
(WUP)—known today as the University of Pittsburgh—played home football 
games at Exposition Park, and also used the park as a home field for the 
university's baseball team.[4] Named for other "expositions" that would 
be shown there, including horse racing and circuses, Exposition Park I 
was the first venue in Pittsburgh that hosted baseball.[5] In 1882, the 
Pittsburgh Pirates—then known simply as Allegheny, or informally as "the 
Alleghenys"—began play at Exposition Park as a member of the American Association; 
however, after one season a fire and flooding of the field from the nearby 
River forced a second park to be built.[6] Despite its reason for construction 
Exposition Park II was built closer to the River. The Alleghenys played 
at the second incarnation of the park until they moved to Recreation Park 
in 1884, which was several blocks north and out of the flood plain.[5] 
While the Pittsburg Pirates were playing home games at Recreation Park, 
owners John Beemer and M. B. Lennon of the Pittsburgh Burghers constructed 
a baseball park near the former site of Exposition Park I and II,[7] which 
was approximately two blocks west of where PNC Park sits today. Exposition 
Park III included a roofed wooden grandstand around the infield, and open 
bleacher sections extending to the right and left field corners. Total 
capacity was about 10,000 spectators. The seats faced the Allegheny River 
and the Point.[6] The Burghers played at the stadium during the 1890 Players' 
League season— both the team and league's only season in existence.[8] 
On June 10, 1890, Jocko Fields of the Pittsburgh Burghers hit the first 
home run at Exposition Park III. The Pittsburg Pirates moved to Exposition 
Park the following season. On April 24, 1891, Fred Carroll hit the first 
home run by a Pirate in the stadium. Under the management of Fred Clarke 
the Pirates won the National League pennant in 1901, 1902, and 1903. After 
the 1903 season, Dreyfuss and Boston Americans owner Henry Killilea organized 
a best of nine game series to match the two pennant winners against each 
other. The first World Series held three games in Boston before moving 
to Exposition Park with the Pirates leading the series 2–1.[9] On October 
6, 1903, 7,600 people attended the first World Series game in a National 
League stadium—the Pirates won by one run. The following day 12,000 people 
attended the game, forcing some spectators to stand behind a rope in the 
outfield.[6] The Pirates lost three of four games at Exposition Park and 
eventually the Series. During a July 4, 1902 doubleheader against the Brooklyn 
Superbas, an Allegheny flood caused water to rise to thigh level in center 
and right fields, and about head level in deep center. Players occasionally 
caught a ball and dove under the water. The Pirates won both games of the 
doubleheader.[10] Ham Hyatt is believed to be the only person to hit a 
ball over the right field fence.[7] Monument Hill, which overlooked the 
field, allowed spectators a free view of the game In 1906, the Pirates 
were the first baseball team to cover their field with a tarp during inclement 
weather, and though the field was kept dry from the rain, the Allegheny 
River still caused problems.[11] Flooding sometimes covered the entire 
outfield with inches of standing water, causing ground rules that gave 
any ground ball hit into the outfield an automatic single. In 1907, Pittsburg's 
pitcher Nick Maddox threw a no-hitter at Exposition Park. In 1908, due 
to the large amounts of people that attended Pirates games, team owner 
Barney Dreyfuss began looking for a location to construct a new Pirates 
stadium. The final Pirates game at Exposition Park was played against the 
Chicago Cubs on June 24, 1909. The Pirates won the game 8–1 in front of 
5,545 people,[12] with George Gibson achieving the final National League 
hit in the ballpark.[7] The very next day, the Pirates once again played 
the Cubs as the team opened Forbes Field. The Pittsburgh Filipinos called 
Exposition Park their home in 1912. The Filipinos lasted just over a month 
after folding with the United States Baseball League. In 1914, the Pittsburgh 
Stogies began play at Exposition Park. In 1915, the team, renamed the Pittsburgh 
Rebels, despite improving from the previous season, disbanded due to financial 
loss with the entire Federal League. Exposition Park continued to host 
Semi-professional baseball games, as well as other events, but "was eventually 
razed".[7] The Western University of Pennsylvania (WUP), which would later 
be known as the University of Pittsburgh, played its first official game 
at Exposition Park on October 11, 1890 when Shadyside Academy failed to 
show up for their game with the Allegheny Athletic Association. The Allegheny 
A.A. made a call to WUP team founder Bert Smyers to bring the WUP team 
to the park as a replacement. The WUP team was subsequently defeated 38-0.[13] 
The WUP football team began playing games more regularly at Exposition 
Park around 1900, occasionally playing in other local venues.[14] Prior 
to the 1903 season, Arthur Mosse was recruited from the University of Kansas 
to become the team's new coach. In addition to players that Mosse brought 
with him, WUP also recruited players from Geneva College to play on the 
team. Mosse's first season was a disappointment as the WUP football team 
went 0–8–1 and supporters of the team disbanded leaving the team $500 in 
debt. George Hubbard Clapp then organized a voluntary $5 "athletic fee" 
to be paid by students in order to allow the debt to be repaid and the 
school's football team to play home games at Exposition Park during the 
next season in order to give the WUP team a more permanent and stable home. 
Mosse and university officials then obtained a lease to play at Exposition 
Park during the fall from Pirates owner Barney Dreyfuss for 20% of the 
admission fee. The 1904 WUP team, the first full season in which WUP played 
at Exposition Park, saw WUP achieve a remarkable turnaround that included 
a 10–0 record in which they outscored opponents 407 to 5 and finished second 
in the state behind the University of Pennsylvania.[15] Prior to home games 
at Exposition Park, WUP students would organize parades through downtown 
streets prior to marching across a bridge to the game. A gong, used to 
announce the beginning of Pirates games, was also sounded prior to the 
opening kickoff of WUP football contests.[16] After parts of 62 seasons 
in the Oakland district, baseball and football returned to the north side 
of the Allegheny River when Three Rivers Stadium opened. The site of the 
final incarnation of Exposition Park, relative to Three Rivers and the 
later PNC Park, was in between the two venues. Exposition Park had been 
on the southwest corner of South Avenue (later Robinson) to the north (first 
base) and School Street (later Scotland) to the east (third base). To the 
south (left field) was some open space and railroad tracks and the Allegheny. 
To the west (right field) was some open space and then Grant Street (later 
Galveston). That open space would eventually be the site of Three Rivers. 
Therefore, the site of Exposition Park was the northeast corner of the 
parking lot east of Three Rivers. In 1995, members of the Society for American 
Baseball Research placed a plaque where home plate is believed to have 
been located, in honor of one of the two sites of the first World Series 
(the other being in Boston). In 1998, a Pennsylvania Historical marker 
was placed at the site of the park.[6] Interstate 279 currently runs over 
portions of the site of Exposition Park just before crossing the Allegheny 
River along the Fort Duquesne Bridge. Coordinates: 40°26′49″N 80°0′39″W﻿ 
