The 1967 International and Universal Exposition or Expo 67, as it was commonly 
known, was a general exhibition, Category One World's Fair held in Montreal, 
Quebec, Canada, from April 27 to October 29, 1967. It is considered to 
be the most successful World's Fair of the 20th century [1] with the most 
attendees to that date and 62 nations participating. It also set the single-day 
attendance record for a world's fair, with 569,500 visitors on its third 
day. Expo 67 was Canada's main celebration during its centennial year. 
The fair had been intended to be held in Moscow, to help the Soviet Union 
celebrate the Russian Revolution's 50th anniversary; however, for various 
reasons, the Soviets decided to cancel, and Canada was awarded it in late 
1962. The project was not well supported in Canada at first. It took the 
determination of Montreal's mayor, Jean Drapeau, and a new team of managers 
to guide it past political, physical and temporal hurdles. Defying a computer 
analysis that said it could not be done, the fair opened on time.[2] After 
Expo 67 ended in October 1967, the site and most of the pavilions continued 
on as an exhibition called Man and His World, open during the summer months 
from 1968 until 1984. By that time, most of the buildings — which had not 
been designed to last beyond the original exhibition — had deteriorated 
and were dismantled. Today, the islands that hosted the world exhibition 
are mainly used as parkland and for recreational use, with only a few remaining 
structures from Expo 67 to show that the event was held there. The idea 
of hosting the 1967 World Exhibition dates back to 1956, but it was in 
1958 that Conservative Senator Mark Drouin suggested during his speech 
at the Brussels Exhibition that Canada should host a World Exhibition to 
celebrate its centennial. The exposition was offered first to Toronto but 
politicians there rejected the idea. However, Montreal's mayor, Sarto Fournier, 
backed the proposal, allowing Canada to make a bid to the Bureau International 
des Expositions (BIE). At the BIE's May 5, 1960 meeting in Paris, Moscow 
was awarded the fair after five rounds of voting that eliminated Austria's 
and then Canada's bids.[3] In April 1962,[4] the Soviets scrapped plans 
to host the fair because of financial constraints and security concerns.[5][6] 
Montreal's new mayor, Jean Drapeau, lobbied the Canadian government to 
try again for the fair, which they did. On November 13, 1962,[7] the BIE 
changed the location of the World Exhibition to Canada,[7] and Expo 67 
went on to become the fourth-best attended BIE-sanctioned world expositions, 
after Shanghai, Osaka, and Paris.[8] Several sites were proposed as the 
main Expo grounds. One location that was considered was Mount Royal Park, 
to the north of the downtown core.[9] But it was Drapeau's idea to create 
new islands in the St. Lawrence river, and to enlarge the existing Saint 
Helen's Island. The choice overcame opposition from Montreal's surrounding 
municipalities, and also prevented land speculation.[10] Expo did not get 
off to a smooth start; in 1963, many top organizing committee officials 
resigned. The main reason for the resignations was Mayor Drapeau's choice 
of the site on new islands to be created around the existing St. Helen's 
Island and also that a computer program predicted that the event could 
not possibly be constructed in time.[11] Another more likely reason for 
the mass resignations was that on April 22, 1963, the federal Liberal government 
of Prime Minister Lester Pearson took power. This meant that former Prime 
Minister John Diefenbaker's Progressive Conservative government appointees 
to the board of directors of the Canadian Corporation for the 1967 World 
Exhibition were likely forced to resign.[12] Canadian diplomat Pierre Dupuy 
was named Commissioner General, after Diefenbaker appointee Paul Bienvenu 
resigned from the post in 1963.[13] One of the main responsibilities of 
the Commissioner General was to attract other nations to build pavilions 
at Expo.[13] Dupuy would spend most of 1964 and 1965 soliciting 125 countries, 
spending more time abroad than in Canada.[14] Dupuy's 'right-hand' man 
was Robert Fletcher Shaw, the deputy commissioner general and vice-president 
of the corporation.[14] He also replaced a Diefenbaker appointee, C.F. 
Carsley, Deputy Commissioner General.[14] Shaw was a professional engineer 
and builder, and is widely credited for the total building of the Exhibition.[14] 
Dupuy hired Andrew Kniewasser as the general manager. The management group 
became known as Les Durs - the tough guys - and they were in charge of 
creating, building and managing Expo.[14] Les Durs consisted of: Jean-Claude 
Delorme, Legal Counsel and Secretary of the Corporation; Dale Rediker, 
Director of Finances; Colonel Edward Churchill, Director of Installations; 
Philippe de Gaspé Beaubien, Director of Operations, dubbed "The Mayor of 
Expo"; Pierre de Bellefeuille, Director of Exhibitors; and Yves Jasmin, 
Director of Information, Advertising and Public Relations.[15] To this 
group the chief architect Édouard Fiset was added. All ten were honoured 
by the Canadian government as recipients of the Order of Canada, Companions 
for Dupuy and Shaw, Officers for the others. Jasmin wrote a book, in French, 
La petite histoire d'Expo 67, about his 45-month experience at Expo and 
created the Expo 67 Foundation (available on the web site under that name) 
to commemorate the event for future generations.[16][17] As historian Pierre 
Berton put it, the cooperation between Canada's French- and English-speaking 
communities "was the secret of Expo's success — 'the Québécois flair, the 
English-Canadian pragmatism.'"[18] However, Berton also points out that 
this is an over-simplification of national stereotypes. Arguably Expo did, 
for a short period anyway, bridge the 'Two Solitudes.'[19] In May 1963, 
a group of prominent Canadian thinkers — including Alan Jarvis, director 
of the National Gallery of Canada; novelists Hugh MacLennan and Gabrielle 
Roy; J. Tuzo Wilson, geophysicist; and Claude Robillard, town planner — 
met for three days at the Seigneury Club in Montebello, Quebec.[20] The 
theme, "Man and His World", was based on the 1939 book entitled Terre des 
Hommes (translated as Wind, Sand and Stars) by Antoine de Saint-Exupéry. 
In Roy's introduction to the Expo 67 corporation's book, entitled Terre 
des Hommes/Man and His World, she elucidates the theme: In Terre des Hommes, 
his haunting book, so filled with dreams and hopes for the future, Antoine 
de Saint-Exupéry writes of how deeply moved he was when, flying for the 
first time by night alone over Argentina, he happened to notice a few flickering 
lights scattered below him across an almost empty plain. They "twinkled 
here and there, alone like stars...." In truth, being made aware of our 
own solitude can give us insight into the solitude of others. It can even 
cause us to gravitate towards one another as if to lessen our distress. 
Without this inevitable solitude, would there be any fusion at all, any 
tenderness between human beings. Moved as he was by a heightened awareness 
of the solitude of all creation and by the human need for solidarity, Saint-Exupéry 
found a phrase to express his anguish and his hope that was as simple as 
it was rich in meaning; and because that phrase was chosen many years later 
to be the governing idea of Expo 67, a group of people from all walks of 
life was invited by the Corporation to reflect upon it and to see how it 
could be given tangible form. The organizers also created seventeen theme 
elements for Man and his World:[22] Construction started on August 13, 
1963, with an elaborate ceremony hosted by Mayor Drapeau on barges anchored 
in the St. Lawrence River.[24] Ceremonially, construction began when Prime 
Minister Lester B. Pearson pulled a lever that signalled a front-end loader 
to dump the first batch of fill to enlarge Saint Helen's Island,[Note 1] 
and Quebec premier Jean Lesage spread the fill with a bulldozer.[25][26] 
The 25 million tons of fill needed to construct the islands was coming 
from the Montreal Metro's excavations, a public works project that was 
already under construction before Expo was awarded to Montreal.[27] Expo's 
initial construction period mainly centred on enlarging Saint Helen's Island, 
creating the artificial island of Notre Dame Island and lengthening and 
enlarging the Mackay Pier which became the Cité du Havre. While construction 
continued, the land rising out of Montreal harbour was not owned by the 
Expo Corporation yet. After the final mounds of earth completed the islands, 
the grounds that would hold the fair were officially transferred from the 
City of Montreal to the corporation on June 20, 1964.[13] This gave Colonel 
Churchill only 1042 days to have everything built and functioning for opening 
day. To get Expo built in time, Churchill used the then new project management 
tool known as the critical path method (CPM).[28] On April 28, 1967, opening 
day, everything was ready, with one exception: Habitat 67, which was then 
displayed as a work in progress.[29] Building and enlarging the islands, 
along with the new Concorde Bridge built to connect them with the site-specific 
mass transit system known as the Montreal Expo Express, plus a boat pier, 
cost more than the Saint Lawrence Seaway project did only five years earlier: 
this was even before any buildings or infrastructure were constructed.[13] 
With the initial phase of construction completed, it is easy to see why 
the budget for the exhibition was going to be larger than anyone expected. 
In the fall of 1963, Expo's general manager, Andrew Kniewasser, presented 
the master plan and the preliminary budget of $167 million for construction: 
it would balloon to over $439 million by 1967. The plan and budget narrowly 
passed a vote in Pearson's federal cabinet, passing by one vote, and then 
it was officially submitted on December 23, 1963.[30] The logo was designed 
by Montreal artist Julien Hébert.[31] The basic unit of the logo is an 
ancient symbol of man. Two of the symbols (pictograms of "man") are linked 
as to represent friendship. The icon was repeated in a circular arrangement 
to represent "friendship around the world".[15] The logotype is lower-case 
Optima font. It did not enjoy unanimous support from federal politicians, 
as some of them tried to kill it with a motion in the Canadian House of 
Commons.[31] The official Expo 67 theme song was composed by Stéphane Venne 
and was titled: "Hey Friend, Say Friend/Un Jour, Un Jour".[32] Complaints 
were made about the suitability of the song, as its lyrics mentioned neither 
Montreal nor Expo 67.[32] The song was selected from an international competition 
with over 2,200 entries from 35 countries.[33] However, the song that most 
Canadians associate with Expo was written by Bobby Gimby, a veteran commercial 
jingle writer who composed the popular Centennial tune "Ca-na-da".[34] 
Gimby earned the name the "Pied Piper of Canada".[35] The theme song "Something 
to Sing About", used for the Canadian pavilion, had been written for a 
1963 television special.[33] The Ontario pavilion also had its own theme 
song: "A Place to Stand, A Place to Grow", which has evolved to become 
an unofficial theme song for the province.[36] Official opening ceremonies 
were held on Thursday afternoon, April 27, 1967.[37] The ceremonies were 
an invitation-only event, held at Place des Nations.[38] Canada's Governor 
General, Roland Michener, proclaimed the exhibition open after the Expo 
flame was ignited by Prime Minister Pearson.[39] On hand were over 7,000 
media and invited guests including 53 heads of state.[39] Over 1,000 reporters 
covered the event, broadcast in NTSC Colour, live via satellite, to a worldwide 
audience of over 700 million viewers and listeners.[Note 2] Expo 67 opened 
to the public on the morning of Friday, April 28, 1967, with a space age-style 
countdown.[40] A capacity crowd at Place d'Accueil participated in the 
atomic clock-controlled countdown that ended when the exhibition opened 
precisely at 9:30 a.m. EST.[40] An estimated crowd of between 310,000 and 
335,000 visitors showed up for opening day, as opposed to the expected 
crowd of 200,000.[41] The first person through the Expo gates at Place 
d'Accueil was Al Carter, a 41-year-old jazz drummer from Chicago, who was 
recognized for his accomplishment by Expo 67's director of operations Philippe 
de Gaspé Beaubien.[42] Beaubien presented Carter with a gold watch for 
his feat.[43] On opening day, there was considerable comment on the uniform 
of the hostesses from the UK Pavilion.[44] The dresses had been designed 
to the then-new miniskirt style, popularized a year earlier by Mary Quant.[45] 
In conjunction with the opening of Expo 67, the Canadian Post Office Department 
issued a 5¢ stamp commemorating the fair, designed by Harvey Thomas Prosser.[46] 
The World Festival of Art and Entertainment at Expo 67 featured art galleries, 
opera, ballet and theatre companies, orchestras, jazz groups, famous Canadian 
pop musicians and other cultural attractions.[47] Many pavilions had music 
and performance stages, where visitors could find free concerts and shows. 
Most of the featured entertainment took place in the following venues: 
Place des Arts, Expo Theatre, Place des Nations, La Ronde, and Automotive 
Stadium.[47] The La Ronde amusement park was always intended to be a lasting 
legacy of the fair. Most of its rides and booths were permanent. When the 
Expo fairgrounds closed nightly, at around 10:00 p.m., visitors could still 
visit La Ronde, which closed at 2:30 a.m.[47] In addition, The Ed Sullivan 
Show was broadcast live on May 7 and May 21 from Expo 67. Stars on the 
shows included America's The Supremes, Britain's Petula Clark and Australia's 
The Seekers.[48] Another attraction was the Canadian Armed Forces Tattoo 
1967 at the Autostad in Montreal.[49] The fair was visited by many of the 
most notable people of the day, including Canada's monarch, Queen Elizabeth 
II, Lyndon B. Johnson, Princess Grace of Monaco, Jacqueline Kennedy, Robert 
F. Kennedy, Ethiopia's emperor Haile Selassie, Charles de Gaulle, Bing 
Crosby, Harry Belafonte, Maurice Chevalier, Maharishi Mahesh Yogi and Marlene 
Dietrich.[50] Musicians like Thelonious Monk, Grateful Dead, Tiny Tim, 
The Tokens and Jefferson Airplane entertained the crowds.[50][51] Despite 
its successes, there were problems: Front de libération du Québec militants 
had threatened to disrupt the exhibition, but were inactive during this 
period. Vietnam war protesters picketed during the opening day, April 28. 
American President Lyndon B. Johnson's visit became a focus of war protesters. 
Threats that the Cuba pavilion would be destroyed by anti-Castro forces 
were not carried out.[52] In June, the Arab-Israeli conflict in the Middle 
East flared up again in the Six Day War, which resulted in Kuwait pulling 
out of the fair in protest to the way Western nations dealt with the war.[52] 
The president of France, Charles De Gaulle, caused an international incident 
on July 24 when he addressed thousands at Montreal City Hall by yelling 
out the now famous words "Vive Montréal... Vive le Québec... Vive le Québec 
Libre!" [53] In September, the most serious problem turned out to be a 
30-day transit strike. By the end of July, estimates predicted that Expo 
would exceed 60 million visitors, but the strike cut deeply into attendance 
and revenue figures, just as the fair was cruising to its conclusion.[52] 
Another major problem, beyond the control of Expo's management, was guest 
accommodation and lodging. Logexpo was created to direct visitors to accommodations 
in the Montreal area, which usually meant that visitors would stay at the 
homes of people they were unfamiliar with, rather than traditional hotels 
or motels. The Montreal populace opened their homes to thousands of guests. 
Unfortunately for some visitors, they were sometimes sent to less than 
respectable establishments where operators took full advantage of the tourist 
trade. Management of Logexpo was refused to Expo and was managed by a Quebec 
provincial authority. Still, Expo would get most of the blame for directing 
visitors to these establishments. But overall, a visit to Expo from outside 
Montreal was still seen as a bargain.[52] Expo 67 closed on Sunday afternoon, 
October 29, 1967. The fair had been scheduled to close two days earlier, 
however a two-day extension granted by the International Exhibitions Bureau 
allowed it to continue over the weekend. On the final day 221,554 visitors 
added to the more than 50 million (50,306,648) that attended Expo 67 at 
a time when Canada's population was only 20 million, setting a per-capita 
record for World Exhibition attendance that still stands.[54] Starting 
at 2:00 p.m., Expo Commissioner General Pierre Dupuy officiated over the 
medal ceremony, in which participating nations and organizations received 
gold and silver medallions, and over the ceremony in which national flags 
were lowered in the reverse order to which they had been raised, with Canada's 
flag lowered first and Nigeria's lowered last.[52] After Prime Minister 
Pearson doused the Expo flame, Governor General Michener closed Expo at 
Place des Nations with the mournful spontaneous farewell: "It is with great 
regret that I declare that the Universal and International Exhibition of 
1967 has come to an official end."[52] All rides and the minirail were 
shut down by 3:50 p.m., and the Expo grounds closed at 4:00 p.m., with 
the last Expo Express train leaving for Place d'Accueil at that time.[52] 
A fireworks display, that went on for an hour, was Expo's concluding event.[52] 
Expo performed better financially than expected. Expo was intended to have 
a deficit, shared between the federal, provincial and municipal levels 
of government. Significantly better-than-expected attendance revenue reduced 
the debt to well below the original estimates. The final financial statistics, 
in 1967 Canadian dollars, were: revenues of $221,239,872, costs of $431,904,683, 
and a deficit of $210,664,811.[54] Expo 67 featured 90 pavilions representing 
Man and His World themes, nations, corporations, and industries including 
the U.S. pavilion, a geodesic dome designed by Buckminster Fuller. Expo 
67 also featured the Habitat 67 modular housing complex designed by architect 
Moshe Safdie, which was later purchased by private individuals and is still 
occupied. The most popular pavilion was the Soviet Union's exhibit. It 
attracted about 13 million visitors.[55] Rounding out the top five pavilions, 
in terms of attendance were: the Canadian Pavilion (11 million visitors), 
the United States (9 million), France (8.5 million), and Czechoslovakia 
(8 million).[55] The participating countries were[15] Countries conspicuously 
absent were Spain, South Africa, the People's Republic of China, and many 
South American countries. After 1967, the exposition struggled for several 
summer seasons as a standing collection of international pavilions known 
as "Man and His World".[56] However, as attendance declined, the physical 
condition of the site deteriorated, and less and less of it was open to 
the public. After the 1971 season, the entire Notre Dame Island site closed 
and three years later completely rebuilt around the new rowing and canoe 
sprint (then flatwater canoeing) basin for Montreal's 1976 Summer Olympics.[57] 
Space for the basin, the boathouses, the changing rooms and other buildings 
was obtained by demolishing many of the former pavilions and cutting in 
half the area taken by the artificial lake and the canals. In 1976, a fire 
destroyed the acrylic outer skin of Buckminster Fuller's dome, and the 
previous year the Ontario pavilion was gutted by a major fire.[58] With 
the site falling into disrepair, and several pavilions left abandoned and 
vandalized, it began to resemble ruins of a futuristic city. In 1980 the 
Notre Dame Island site was reopened (primarily for the Floralies) making 
both islands simultaneously accessible again, albeit only for a brief time. 
Minor thematic exhibitions were held at the Atlantic pavilion and Quebec 
pavilion (and continued even several years beyond). After the 1981 season, 
the Saint Helen's Island site permanently closed,[56] shutting out the 
majority of attractions. Man and His World was able to continue in a limited 
fashion with the small number of pavilions left standing on Notre Dame 
Island. However, the few remaining original exhibits closed permanently 
in 1984.[59] After the Man and His World summer exhibitions were discontinued, 
with most pavilions and remnants demolished between 1985 and 1986, the 
former site for Expo 67 on Saint Helen's Island and Notre Dame Island was 
incorporated into a municipal park run by the city of Montreal.[60] In 
2000, the park was renamed from Parc des Îles to Parc Jean-Drapeau, after 
Mayor Jean Drapeau, who had brought the exhibition to Montreal. In 2006, 
the corporation that runs the park also changed its name from the Société 
du parc des Îles to the Société du parc Jean-Drapeau.[60] Two prominent 
buildings remain in use on the former Expo grounds: the American pavilion's 
metal-lattice skeleton from its Buckminster Fuller dome, now enclosing 
an environmental sciences museum called the Montreal Biosphère;[58] and 
Habitat 67, now a condominium residence. Also, the French and Quebec pavilions 
now form the Montreal Casino.[61] La Toundra Hall is part of the surviving 
structural remains of the Canadian pavilion.[62] It is now a special events 
hall with dining facilities available,[62] while another part of the pavilion 
serves as the administration building of Parc Jean-Drapeau[63] (Katimavik's 
distinctive inverted pyramid and much of the rest of the Canadian pavilion 
were dismantled during the 1970s). Place des Nations, where the opening 
and closing ceremonies were held, remains however in an abandoned and deteriorating 
state. The Jamaican, Tunisian and Korean pavilion (roof only) and the CIBC 
banking centre also survive. In Cite du Havre the Expo Theatre, Administration 
and Fine Arts buildings remain. Other remaining structures include sculptures, 
lampposts and landscaping. The Montreal Metro subway station Berri Uqam 
still has an old "Man and His World" logo and welcome sign above the pedestrian 
tunnel entrance to the yellow line. La Ronde survives, and since 2001 it 
has been leased to the New York amusement park company Six Flags.[60] The 
Alcan Aquarium built for the Expo remained in operation for a number of 
decades until its closure in 1991. The Expo 67 parking lot was converted 
into Victoria STOLport, an experimental short-take off airport for a brief 
time in the 1970s.[64] Another attraction on today's Notre Dame Island 
site is the Circuit Gilles Villeneuve race track that is used for the Canadian 
Grand Prix.[65] The Olympic basin is used by many local rowing clubs.[57] 
A beach was built on the shores of the remaining artificial lake. There 
are many acres of parkland and cycle paths on both Saint Helen's Island 
and the western tip of Notre Dame Island. The site has been used for a 
number of events such as a BIE-sponsored international botanical festival, 
Les floralies.[65] The young trees and shrubs planted for Expo 67 are now 
mature. The plants introduced during the botanical events have flourished 
also. In a political and cultural context, Expo 67 was seen as a landmark 
moment in Canadian history.[66] In 1968, as a salute to the cultural impact 
the exhibition had on the city, Montreal's Major League baseball team, 
the Expos (now the Washington Nationals), was named after the event.[56] 
1967 was also the year that invited Expo guest Charles De Gaulle, on July 
24, addressed thousands at Montreal City Hall by yelling out the now famous 
words: "Vive Montréal... Vive le Québec... Vive le Québec Libre!" (See 
Vive le Québec libre speech). De Gaulle was rebutted in Ottawa by Prime 
Minister Lester B. Pearson: "Canadians do not need to be liberated, Canada 
will remain united and will reject any effort to destroy her unity."[53] 
In the years that followed, the tensions between the English- and French-speaking 
communities would continue. As an early 21st-century homage to the fair, 
satirists Bowser and Blue wrote a full-length musical set at Expo 67 called 
The Paris of America, which ran for six sold-out weeks at Centaur Theatre 
in Montreal in April and May 2003.[67] Expo 67 was one of the most successful 
World Exhibitions, and is still regarded fondly by Canadians.[66] In Montreal, 
1967 is often referred to as "the last good year" before economic decline, 
Quebec sovereignism (seen as negative from a federalist viewpoint), deteriorating 
infrastructure and political apathy became common.[68] In this way, it 
has much in common with the 1964-65 New York World's Fair. In 2007, a new 
group, Expo 17, was looking to bring a smaller-scale — BIE sanctioned — 
exposition to Montreal for Expo 67's 50th anniversary and Canada's sesquicentennial 
in 2017.[69] Expo 17 hoped a new world's fair would regenerate the spirit 
of Canada's landmark centennial project.[69] • An episode of the 1970s 
television series Battlestar Galactica, "Greetings from Earth Part 2", 
was filmed at the Expo site in 1979. The Expo structures were used to represent 
a city on an alien world where the people had all been killed by a long-ago 
war.[citation needed] • The 1979 film Quintet, was shot entirely on the 
site of Expo during winter months, using abandoned pavilions and other 
