Extrapolated Runs (XR) is a baseball statistic invented by sabermetrician 
Jim Furtado to estimate the number of runs a hitter contributes to his 
team. XR measures essentially the same thing as Bill James' Runs Created, 
but it is a linear weights formula that assigns a run value to each event, 
rather than a multiplicative formula like James' creation. According to 
Furtado, Extrapolated Runs was inspired by Paul Johnson's Estimated Runs 
Produced (ERP) formula, which was published in James' 1985 Baseball Abstract. 
Furtado found that Johnson's method, when written a different way, was 
essentially a linear weights formula (something James apparently did not 
recognize at the time, given his very public disdain for linear run estimators). 
ERP was almost as accurate as RC at measuring team runs, it did not succumb 
to RC's infamous problems at the individual level, and its values stacked 
up well when compared to Pete Palmer's linear weights formula, even though 
the two methods were developed in entirely different ways. For these reasons, 
Furtado believed that linear estimators had more promise than was originally 
thought, and he set out to develop his own. After much trial and error 
(some of which involved borrowing concepts and weights from other linear 
formulas), Furtado eventually found a set of weights that best fit his 
sample (every Major League Baseball season from 1955 to 1997). He unveiled 
the formula in the 1999 Big Bad Baseball Annual: "Extrapolated Runs was 
developed for use with seasons from 1955 to the present. I came up with 
three versions of the formula. The three formulas are: "As you can see, 
calculating XR requires only addition and multiplication. Its simplicity 
of design is one of its greatest attributes. Unlike a lot of the other 
methods, you don't need to know team totals, actual runs, league figures 
or anything else. You just plug the stats into the formula and you are 
all set. "Another of XR attributes is that the formula is pretty much context 
neutral. Other than park effects, the only remaining residue of context 
is due to the inclusion of IBB, GIDP and SF. Although I could have removed 
them from the full version, I felt that the inclusion of these terms was 
important since my research showed there was a strong correlation between 
the IBB, SF and GIDP opportunities that players face. I also felt, like 
Bill James, that these statistics do tell us something valuable about players. 
Of course, I knew some people might not agree with me. For them, I created 
two other versions. "XR also accounts for just about every out. James correctly 
understands that the more outs an individual player consumes the less valuable 
his positive contributions are. Since XR will be used as the base of the 
Extrapolated Win method, I thought it was important to include as many 
outs as possible in the formula. "Another nice thing about XR is that if 
you add up all the players' Extrapolated Runs, you'll have the team totals. 
That's a benefit of using a linear equation." Along with Palmer's Linear 
Weights, XR is the most accurate of the linear run estimators, in terms 
of predicting team runs scored. And unlike James' RC, it doesn't artificially 
inflate the runs produced by individual players who combine high OBPs and 
SLGs. It is also much easier to calculate than Base Runs. However, like 
any linear formula, there is no guarantee that it will work outside of 
the context in which it was developed (in this case, seasons from 1955 
