Fall River is a city in Bristol County, Massachusetts, United States. Fall 
River's population was 88,857 at the 2010 census,[2] making it the tenth-largest 
city in the state. Located along the eastern shore of Mount Hope Bay at 
the mouth of the Taunton River, the city became famous during the 19th 
century as the leading textile manufacturing center in the United States. 
While the textile industry has long since moved on, its impact on the city's 
culture and landscape remains to this day. Fall River's official motto 
is "We'll Try," dating back to the aftermath of the Great Fire of 1843. 
It is also nicknamed "the Scholarship City" because Dr. Irving Fradkin 
founded Dollars for Scholars here in 1958. Fall River is known for the 
Lizzie Borden case, Portuguese culture, its numerous 19th-century textile 
mills and Battleship Cove, the world's largest collection of World War 
II naval vessels and the home of the USS Massachusetts (BB-59). Fall River 
is also the only city in the United States to have its city hall located 
over an interstate highway. At the time of the establishment of the Plymouth 
Colony in 1620, the area that would one day become Troy City was inhabited 
by the Pokanoket Wampanoag tribe, headquartered at Mount Hope in what is 
now Bristol, Rhode Island. The "falling" river that the name Fall River 
refers to is the Quequechan River (pronounced "quick-a-shan" by locals) 
which flows through the city, dropping steeply into the bay. Quequechan 
is a Wampanoag word believed to mean "Falling River" or "Leaping/Falling 
Waters." During the 1960s, Interstate 195 was constructed through the city 
along the length of the Quequechan River. The portion west of Plymouth 
Avenue was routed underground through a series of box culverts, while much 
of the eastern section "mill pond" was filled in for the highway embankment. 
In 1653, Freetown was settled at Assonet Bay by members of the Plymouth 
Colony, as part of Freeman's Purchase, which included the northern part 
of what is now Fall River. In 1683, Freetown was incorporated as a town 
within the colony. The southern part of what is now Fall River was incorporated 
as the town of Tiverton as part of the Massachusetts Bay Colony in 1694, 
a few years after the merger with Plymouth Colony. In 1746, in the settlement 
of a colonial boundary dispute between Rhode Island and Massachusetts, 
Tiverton was annexed to Rhode Island, along with Little Compton and what 
is now Newport County, Rhode Island. The boundary was then placed approximately 
at what is now Columbia Street. In 1703, Benjamin Church, a hero of King 
Philip's War established a saw mill, grist mill, and a fulling mill on 
the Quequechan River. In 1714, Church sold his land, along with the water 
rights to Richard Borden of Tiverton and his brother Joseph. This transaction 
would prove to be extremely valuable 100 years later, helping to establish 
the Borden family as the leaders in the development of Fall River's textile 
industry. During the 18th century the area consisted mostly of small farms 
and relatively few inhabitants. In 1778, the Battle of Freetown, was fought 
here during the American Revolutionary War, the townspeople put up a strong 
defense against a British force. In 1803, Fall River was separated from 
Freetown and officially incorporated as its own town. A year later, Fall 
River changed its name to "Troy." The name "Troy" was used for 30 years 
and was officially changed back to Fall River on February 12, 1834. During 
this period, Fall River was governed by a three-member Board of Selectmen, 
until it became a City in 1854. In July 1843, the first great fire in Fall 
River's history destroyed much of the town center, including the Atheneum, 
which housed the Skeleton in Armor which had been discovered in a sand 
bank in 1832 near what is now the corner of Hartwell and Fifth Street. 
During this time, the southern part of what is now Fall River (south of 
Columbia Street) would remain part of Tiverton, Rhode Island. In 1856, 
the town of Tiverton, Rhode Island voted to split off its industrial northern 
section as Fall River, Rhode Island. In 1861, after decades of dispute, 
the United States Supreme Court moved the state boundary to what is now 
State Avenue, thereby creating a City of Fall River entirely within Massachusetts. 
(Also as part of this decision, Pawtucket, Massachusetts would become part 
of Pawtucket, Rhode Island.[3]) The early establishment of the textile 
industry in Fall River grew out of the developments made in nearby Rhode 
Island beginning with Samuel Slater at Pawtucket in 1793. In 1811, Col. 
Joseph Durfee, the Revolutionary War veteran and hero of the Battle of 
Freetown in 1778 built the Globe Manufactory (a spinning mill) at the outlet 
of Cook Pond on Dwelly St. near what is now Globe Four Corners in the city's 
South End. (It was part of Tiverton, Rhode Island at the time.) While Durfee's 
mill was never very successful, it marked the beginning of the city's rise 
in the textile business. The real development of Fall River's industry, 
however, would occur along the falling river from which it was named, about 
a mile north of Durfee's first mill. The Quequechan River, with its eight 
falls, combined to make Fall River the best tidewater privilege in southern 
New England. It was perfect for industrialization—big enough for profit 
and expansion, yet small enough to be developed by local capital without 
interference from Boston.[4] The Fall River Manufactory was established 
by David Anthony and others in 1813. That same year, the Troy Cotton & 
Woolen Manufactory was also founded, by a group of investors led by Oliver 
Chace, from Swansea, who had worked as a carpenter for Samuel Slater in 
his early years. The Troy Mill opened in 1814, at the upper end of the 
falls. In 1821, Colonel Richard Borden established the Fall River Iron 
Works, along with Maj. Bradford Durfee at the lower part of the Quequechan 
River. Durfee was a shipwright, and Borden was the owner of a grist mill. 
After an uncertain start, in which some early investors pulled out, the 
Fall River Iron Works was incorporated in 1825. The Iron Works began producing 
nails, bar stock, and other items such as bands for casks in the nearby 
New Bedford whaling industry. They soon gained a reputation for producing 
nails of high quality, and business flourished. In 1827, Col. Borden began 
regular steamship service to Providence, Rhode Island.[5] The American 
Print Works was established in 1835 by Holder Borden, uncle of Colonel 
Richard. With the leadership of the Borden family, the American Print Works 
(later known as the American Printing Company) became the largest and most 
important textile company in the city, employing thousands at its peak 
in the early 20th century. Richard Borden also constructed the Metacomet 
Mill in 1847, which today is the oldest remaining textile (cloth-producing) 
mill in the city, located on Anawan Street. By 1845, the Quequechan's power 
had been all but maximized. The Massasoit Steam Mill was established in 
1846, above the dam near the end of Pleasant Street. However, it would 
be another decade or so when improvements in the steam engine by George 
Corliss would enable the construction of the first large steam-powered 
mill in the city, the Union Mills in 1859. The advantage of being able 
to import bales of cotton and coal to fuel the steam engines to Fall River's 
deep water harbor, and ship out the finished goods also by water, made 
Fall River the choice of a series of cotton mill magnates. The first railroad 
line serving Fall River, The Fall River Branch Railroad, was incorporated 
in 1844 and opened in 1845. Two years later, in 1847, the first regular 
steamboat service to New York City began. The Fall River Line as it came 
to be known operated until 1937, and for many years, was the preferred 
way to travel between Boston and Manhattan. The Old Colony Railroad and 
Fall River Railroad merged in 1854, forming the Old Colony and Fall River 
Railroad. In 1854, Fall River was officially incorporated as a city, and 
had a population of about 12,000.[6] Its first mayor was James Buffington. 
Fall River profited well from the American Civil War and was in a fine 
position to take advantage of the prosperity that followed. By 1868, it 
had surpassed Lowell as the leading textile city in America with over 500,000 
spindles. Then, during 1871 and 1872, a "most dramatic expansion" of the 
city occurred: 15 new corporations were founded, building 22 new mills 
throughout the city, while some of the older mills expanded. The city's 
population increased by 20,000 people during these two years, while overall 
mill capacity doubled to more than 1,000,000 spindles.[citation needed] 
By 1876, the city had 1/6 of all New England cotton capacity and one-half 
of all print cloth production. The "Spindle City" as it became known, was 
second in the world to only Manchester, England. To house the thousands 
of new workers, mostly Irish and French Canadian immigrants during these 
years, over 12,000 units of company housing were built. Unlike the well-spaced 
boardinghouses of early Lowell or the tidy cottages of Rhode Island, worker 
housing in Fall River consisted of thousands of wood-framed multi-family 
tenements, usually three-floor "triple-deckers" with up to six apartments. 
Many more privately owned tenements supplemented the company housing.[7] 
During the 19th century, Fall River became famous for the granite rock 
on which much of the city is built. Several granite quarries operated during 
this time, the largest of which was the Beattie Granite Quarry, near what 
is now North Quarry Street, near the corner of Locust.[8] Many of the mills 
in the city were built from this native stone, and it was highly regarded 
as a building material for many public buildings and private homes alike. 
The Chateau-sur-Mer mansion in Newport, Rhode Island is perhaps the best 
example of Fall River granite being used for private home construction. 
While most of the mills "above the hill" were constructed from native Fall 
River granite, nearly all of their counterparts along the Taunton River 
and Mount Hope Bay were made of red brick. This was due to the high costs 
and impracticality associated with transporting the rock through the city 
and down the hill, where there were no rail lines because of the steep 
grades. (One notable exception is the Sagamore Mills on North Main Street, 
which were constructed from similar rock quarried in Freetown and brought 
to the site by rail.) Fall River rode the wave of economic prosperity well 
into the early 20th century. During this time, the city boasted several 
fancy hotels, theaters, and a bustling downtown. As the city continually 
expanded during the late 19th century, its leaders built several fine parks, 
schools, streetcar lines, a public water supply, and sewerage system to 
meet the needs of its growing population. The city evidently was prosperous 
enough at one point that when a system of call boxes was installed for 
the city fire and police departments, the city was able to special-order 
the insulators with markings unique to the city's system. The insulators 
for the police call box system were embossed "FALL RIVER / POLICE SIGNAL" 
and the ones for the fire department system were embossed "CITY FIRE ALARM". 
From 1896 to 1912, Fall River was the headquarters of the E. P. Charlton 
& Company chain of five and ten cent stores. Founded at Fall River in 1890 
by Seymour H. Knox and Earle Perry Charlton as the Knox & Charlton Five 
and Ten Cent Store, by the time of its merger with several other retailers 
to form the F. W. Woolworth Company in 1912, Charlton operated fifty-eight 
stores in the United States and Canada. In 1920 the population of Fall 
River peaked at 120,485.[9] North Main Street, c. 1910 First Cotton Mill, 
built in 1811 Printing Works, c. 1920 The Charlton Block, 1908 The cotton 
mills of Fall River had built their business largely on one product: print 
cloth. About 1910, the city's largest employer, the American Printing Company 
(APC), employed 6,000 people and was the largest company printer of cloth 
in the world. Dozens of other city mills solely produced cloth to be printed 
at the APC. The city's industry had all its eggs in one, very large basket. 
World War I had provided a general increase in demand for textiles, and 
many of the mills of New England benefited during this time. The post-war 
economy quickly slowed, however, and production quickly outpaced demand. 
The Northern mills faced serious competition from their Southern counterparts 
due to factors such as lower labor and transportation costs, as well as 
the South's large investment in new machinery and other equipment. In 1923, 
Fall River faced the first wave of mill closures. Some mills merged and 
were able to limp along until the late 1920s. By the 1930s and the Great 
Depression, many more mills were out of business and the city was bankrupt. 
A few somehow managed to survive through World War II and into the 1950s. 
The worst fire in Fall River's history occurred on the evening of February 
2, 1928.[10] It began when workers were dismantling the recently vacated 
Pocasset Mill. During the night the fire spread quickly and wiped out a 
large portion of downtown. City Hall was spared but was badly damaged. 
Today, many of the structures near the corner of North Main and Bedford 
Street date from the early 1930s, as they were rebuilt soon after the fire. 
The once mighty American Printing Company finally closed for good in 1934. 
In 1937, their huge plant waterfront on Water Street was acquired by the 
Firestone Tire & Rubber Company and soon employed 2,600 people. In October 
1941, just a few weeks before the attack on Pearl Harbor, a huge fire broke 
out in the old 1860s' main building of the print works. The fire was a 
major setback to the U.S. war effort, as $15 million in raw rubber (30,000 lbs.) 
was lost in the inferno.[11] With the demise of the textile industry, many 
of the city's mills were occupied by smaller companies, some in the garment 
industry, traditionally based in the New York City area but attracted to 
New England by the lure of cheap factory space and an eager workforce in 
need of jobs.[12] The garment industry survived in the city well into the 
1990s but has also largely become a victim of globalization and foreign 
competition.[13] In the 1960s the city's landscape was drastically transformed 
with the construction of the Braga Bridge and Interstate 195, which cut 
directly through the heart of the city. In the wake of the highway building 
boom, the city lost some great pieces of its history. The Quequechan River 
was filled in and re-routed for much of its length. The historic falls, 
which had given the city its name, were diverted into underground culverts. 
A series of elevated steel viaducts was constructed as to access the new 
Braga Bridge. Many historic buildings were demolished, including the Old 
City Hall, the 150-year-old Troy Mills, the Second Granite Block (built 
after the 1928 fire), as well as other 19th century brick-and-mortar buildings 
near Old City Hall. Constructed directly over Interstate 195, where its 
predecessor was, the new city hall was opened in 1976, after years of construction 
delays and quality control problems.[14] Built in the Brutalist style popular 
in the 1960s and 1970s, the new city hall drew complaints from city workers 
and residents almost immediately. In 1970 the Valle's Steak House chain 
opened one if its landmark restaurants on William S. Canning Boulevard. 
The steak house was popular with Fall River residents but economic challenges 
caused the chain to close all of its restaurants in the 1980s.[15] Also 
during the 1970s, several modern apartment high-rise towers were built 
throughout the city, many part of the Fall River Housing Authority. There 
were two built near Milliken Boulevard, two on Pleasant Street in Flint 
Village, another on South Main Street, and in the north end off Robeson 
Street. Today, these high-rises mostly house the elderly. In 1978, the 
city opened the new B.M.C. Durfee High School in the north end, replacing 
the historic Rock Street masterpiece that had become overcrowded and outdated 
for use as a high school. The "new" Durfee is one of the largest high schools 
in Massachusetts. Since about 1980, there has been a considerable amount 
of new development in the North end of the city, with many new single- 
and multi-family housing developments, particularly along North Main Street. 
In 2010, Fall River was also ranked the 88th most dangerous city in the 
United States, largely due to a heroin epidemic with ties to the shipping 
ports in New Bedford.[16] According to the United States Census Bureau, 
the city has a total area of 40.2 square miles (104.2 km2), of which 33.1 
square miles (85.8 km2) is land and 7.1 square miles (18.4 km2), or 17.68%, 
is water.[2] Water power from the Quequechan River and natural granite 
helped form and shape Fall River into the city it is today. Fall River 
granite is quarried here. The Quequechan River once flowed through downtown 
unrestricted, providing water power for the mills and, in the last 1⁄2 
mile (0.8 km) of its length, down a series of eight steep waterfalls falling 
128 feet (39 m) into the Taunton River at the head of the deep Mount Hope 
Bay. Fall River was the only city on the East Coast of the United States 
to have had an exposed waterfall in part of its downtown area; it flowed 
less than 1⁄2 mile (0.8 km) into a sheltered harbor at the edge of downtown. 
Fall River has two large lakes (originally one lake) and a large portion 
of protected woodlands on the eastern part of the city, which is higher 
in elevation, with the Quequechan River draining out of the ponds and flowing 
2.5 miles (4.0 km) through the heart of the city, emptying out an estimated 
26 million US gallons (98×10 ^6 l) per day into the deep Mount Hope Bay/Taunton 
River estuary in the western part of the city. The city lies on the eastern 
border of Mount Hope Bay, which begins at the mouth of the Taunton River 
starting south from the Charles M. Braga, Jr. Bridge. The greater portion 
of the city is built on hillsides rising quite abruptly from the water's 
edge to a height of more than 200 feet (60 m). From the summits of these 
hills the country extends back in a comparatively level table-land, on 
which a large section of the city now stands. Two miles (3 km) eastward 
from the shore lies a chain of deep and narrow ponds, eight miles (13 km) 
long (13 km), with an average width of three-quarters of a mile, and covering 
an area of 3,500 acres (14 km2). These ponds are supplied by springs and 
brooks, draining a watershed of 20,000 acres (81 km2). The northern pond 
is the North Watuppa Pond, the city's main reservoir. The southern pond 
is the South Watuppa Pond. Where the two ponds meet is called the "The 
Narrows." East of the North Watuppa Pond is the Watuppa Reservation that 
includes several thousand acres of forest-land for water supply protection 
that extends north into the Freetown-Fall River State Forest, and east 
to the Copicut Reservoir. Copicut Pond is located on the border of Dartmouth 
in North Dartmouth's Hixville section that borders Fall River. Copicut 
Hill, the highest point in Fall River, is located between North Watuppa 
Pond and the Copicut Reservoir and has a summit elevation of greater than 
404 feet (123 m) above sea level.[17] The Quequechan River breaks out of 
its bed in the west part of the South Watuppa Pond, just west of The Narrows, 
and flows through the city (partially underground in conduits) where it 
falls to a channel leading to what is now Heritage State Park at Battleship 
Cove on the Taunton River. The Quequechan River originally flowed unconfined 
over an almost level course for more than a mile. In the last half-mile 
(800 m) of its progress it rushes down the hillside in a narrow, precipitous, 
rocky channel, creating the falls for which Fall River is named. In this 
distance the total fall is about 132 feet (40 m). and the volume of water 
122 cubic feet (3.5 m3) per second. Originally an attractive feature of 
the landscape, the Quequechan has seldom been visible since it was covered 
over by cotton mills and the Bay Colony Railroad line in the 19th century. 
As the Quequechan became an underground feature of the industrial landscape, 
it also became a sewer. In the 20th century the mills were abandoned and 
some of them burned, exposing the falls once more. Because of highway construction 
in the 1960s, the waterfalls were buried under Interstate 195, which crosses 
the Taunton River at Battleship Cove. Plans exist to "daylight" the falls, 
restore or re-create them, and build a green belt with a bicycle path along 
the Quequechan River. In the south end, Cook Pond, also formerly known 
as Laurel Lake, is located east of the Taunton River and west of the South 
Watuppa Pond. The area between the modern day Cook and South Watuppa Ponds, 
east of the Taunton River and north of Tiverton, Rhode Island, was once 
referred to as "Pocasset Swamp" during King Philip's War in 1675–1676. 
According to the United States Census of 2010, the population of Fall River 
is 88,857. The largest racial groups within the city were 87.2% (83.4% 
Non-Hispanic) White, 3.5% African American, 2.5% Asian and 0.2% Native 
American and 7.4% Hispanic or Latino. 49% of residents are Luso American 
or have origins somewhere in the former Portuguese Empire. 37% of the population 
described themselves as being of Portuguese ancestry. The next largest 
groups by ancestry are French 12.4%, Irish 8.9%, Cape Verdean 8.1%, English 
6.0%, French Canadian 5.9%, Puerto Rican 4.5%, and Italian 3.6%.[30] Fall 
River and surrounding communities form a part of the Providence metropolitan 
area, which has an estimated population of 1,622,520. In percentage terms 
Fall River has the largest Portuguese American population in the United 
States. However, the exact percentage of the population they make up is 
disputed. A 2005 study by the University of Massachusetts Dartmouth has 
given it at 49.6%[31] while other sources give it as 43.9%.[32] The city 
has 38,759 households and 23,558 families. The population density was 2,963.7 
per square mile (1,144.3/km²). There were 41,857 housing units at an average 
density of 1,349.3 per square mile (521.0/km²). Of the 38,759 households 
29.9% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 40.3% were married 
couples living together, 16.5% had a female householder with no husband 
present, and 39.2% were non-families. 34.2% of all households were made 
up of individuals and 14.2% had someone living alone who was 65 years of 
age or older. The average household size was 2.32 and the average family 
size was 3.00. In terms of age the population was spread out with 24.1% 
under the age of 18, 9.2% from 18 to 24, 29.8% from 25 to 44, 20.0% from 
45 to 64, and 16.9% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 
36 years. For every 100 females there were 87.7 males. For every 100 females 
age 18 and over, there were 82.9 males. The median household income was 
$29,014, and the median family income was $37,671. Males had a median income 
of $31,330 versus $22,883 for females. The per capita income for the city 
was $16,118. About 14.0% of families and 17.1% of the population were below 
the poverty line, including 25.4% of those under age 18 and 17.4% of those 
age 65 or over.[30] Data is from the 2009-2013 American Community Survey 
5-Year Estimates.[33][34][35] Fall River retains a vibrant mix of cultures 
from around the globe. While the distinct ethnic neighborhoods formed in 
the late 19th and early 20th centuries have changed over the years, the 
legacy of immigrants who came to work in the mills can be found in the 
various parishes and restaurants throughout the city. The city is host 
to many ethnic festivals throughout the year. The largest, the Great Holy 
Ghost Festival, occurs each August at Kennedy Park and attracts over 200,000 
visitors, everywhere from Canada, to Portugal. The feast is held over a 
total of four days.[36] Each summer, the city uses its waterfront at Heritage 
State Park and Battleship Cove for a Fourth of July fireworks display. 
For many years the waterfront also hosted the annual Fall River Celebrates 
America Festival, sponsored by the Fall River Chamber of Commerce. The 
event was suspended in 2010, due to lack of financial support. However, 
the Chamber hopes to have the event again in 2011, to mark its 100th anniversary.[37] 
In recent years, different groups have made an effort to increase awareness 
in the arts in the city, using vacant mill space for studios and performance 
centers, such as the Narrows Center for the Arts on Anawan Street. A proposal 
is in place to revitalize the downtown area by the creation of an Arts 
District. Along with the art centers being established throughout the city, 
Fall River is also known throughout New England as a "City of Bands". Fall 
River has numerous Portuguese/Community Bands throughout the city that 
perform throughout the year. Fall River remains a predominantly Roman Catholic 
city and is the seat of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Fall River, located 
at St. Mary's Cathedral on Second Street, formed in the 1850s by Irish 
immigrants. Also on Columbia Street is located Santo Christo Parish known 
as the Mother Church of the Portuguese Parishes in the Fall River Diocese. 
The Church was Established in 1892 to serve the local Portuguese community 
that Immigrated predominately from the Sao Miguel Island of Azores. Other 
imposing Catholic churches include St. Anne's Church at the top of Kennedy 
Park, Good Shepherd Church (formerly Saint Patrick's) in the South End, 
and the former Notre Dame de Lourdes in the Flint neighborhood, which was 
destroyed in a spectacular blaze on May 10, 1982. At the time of the city's 
peak population in 1920, there were over two dozen Catholic parishes existing 
throughout the city, with each ethnic enclave having its own parish. In 
recent years, the diocese has merged several parishes in the city, closing 
some, and renaming the united congregations, bringing the total number 
of parishes in the diocese to fifteen as of 2013. Historically, the Highlands 
neighborhood was predominantly Protestant, with several churches in the 
area of North Main and Rock Streets, notably including the Central Congregational 
Church and the First Congregational Church, known for hosting many New 
England luminaries before its demise in a fire in the 1980s. Various other 
ethno-religious groups also live in the city, including a historic Jewish 
synagogue on High Street and many newer congregations throughout the city. 
Recent arrivals from Cambodia, and India also maintain temples in the city 
such as Wat Udomsaharatanaram and BAPS Shri Swaminarayanwasi. With the 
addition of religious centers for Theravada Buddhism and Hinduism, the 
diversity of faith supports the spiritualism for the citizens of Fall River. 
The city is led by the mayor-council form of government. There are nine 
at-large city councillors. The Mayor along with the City Administrator 
lead and manage the city's day-to-day operations. The city's police department 
is consolidated into a large central police station. There are six fire 
stations located around the city. The Fire Headquarters is located on Commerce 
Drive, just across from the former Fall River Municipal Airport. There 
are four post offices in the city, located in Flint Village, the South 
End Branch (near Globe Corners), Highland Station and the central branch 
just behind Government Center, a post office modeled after the James Farley 
Post Office, the New York City main post office behind Penn Plaza. The 
central branch was named after the late Sgt. Robert Barrett in May 2011, 
a soldier born in the city, who died in Afghanistan in 2010. The post office 
will now be known as the "Robert Barrett Post Office." The city is also 
home to a Superior Court, a District Court and the new Bristol County Court 
House, located in the former B.M.C. Durfee High School building on Rock 
Street. A new District Court is at 186 South Main Street. Fall River is 
represented by three separate Massachusetts House of Representatives districts 
(one of which represents the majority of the city) and is represented by 
Carole Fiola (6th Bristol), Alan Silvia (7th Bristol), and Paul A. Schmid 
III (8th Bristol). The city is represented by Senator Michael Rodrigues 
(D-Fall River) in the First Bristol and Plymouth district, which includes 
the city and the towns of Freetown, Lakeville, Rochester, Somerset and 
Swansea. Fall River is patrolled by the Third Barracks of Troop D of the 
Massachusetts State Police, based out of Dartmouth. On the national level, 
the city is divided between two congressional districts. The city is represented 
by Joseph Kennedy III and Bill Keating. The Fall River Public Schools operates 
public schools. The city has one public high school, B.M.C. Durfee High 
School, which has produced very notable alumni, including, but not limited 
to: James M. McGuire, a former Supreme Court Justice, Chris Herren, former 
NBA player for the Denver Nuggets and the Boston Celtics, and Humberto 
Sousa Medeiros, a Cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church and former Archbishop 
of Boston. The city is also the home of Diman Regional Vocational Technical 
High School, which also serves the towns of Somerset, Swansea, and Westport. 
Famous chef Emeril Lagasse graduated from this high school, in the Culinary 
Arts Program that is still run today. The school's roots date back to the 
days of the Durfee Textile School, which branched out to include Diman. 
(The college, founded to promote the city's textile sciences, is now a 
part of University of Massachusetts Dartmouth.) In addition to public schools, 
there are several private and parochial schools in the city, including 
nine Catholic schools, two private schools, a Christian academy (East Gate 
Christian Academy), and Atlantis Charter School, a Pre-K through 8 charter 
school with a marine science-themed curriculum. The city is also home to 
Bishop Connolly High School, a Catholic high school named for Bishop James 
Louis Connolly, fourth Bishop of the Diocese of Fall River. Bishop Feehan 
was also in Fall River from 1961–1972. Espirito Santo School opened on 
September 19, 1910. The majority of the students are ethnic Portuguese, 
and 70% of the students are bilingual.[39] The University of Massachusetts 
Dartmouth has two branches in the city: the Professional and Continuing 
Education Center located at 139 South Main Street (in the 1917 Cherry & 
Webb building), and the Advanced Technical & Manufacturing Center at the 
Narrows, on the former site of the Kerr Mills. The school traces half of 
its roots back to the city; the Bradford Durfee Textile School was founded 
there in 1899, with its original 1904 building on the corner of Durfee 
and Bank Streets still standing. The building was also the original home 
of Bristol Community College, founded in 1965 and now located at 777 Elsbree 
Street. BCC is a two-year college offering associate degrees as well transfer 
programs to four-year institutions. The Eastern Nazarene College offers 
Adult Studies/LEAD classes in Fall River as well. It also has GED programs 
and a recording studio, The Americo Miranda show is aired at the college.[40] 
Fall River is twinned with: Fall River established its public library in 
1860.[41][42] In fiscal year 2008, the city of Fall River spent 0.56% ($1,054,945) 
of its budget on its public library—some $11 per person.[43] The main location 
of the Fall River Public Library is located at 104 North Main Street, within 
the Downtown Fall River Historic District. It opened in 1899, and was designed 
by architect Ralph Adams Cram in the Renaissance Revival style. It is constructed 
from native Fall River granite. The building underwent an extensive renovation 
during the late 1990s and early 2000s. The public library system also includes 
two branches; the South End Branch located at 58 Arch Street, and the East 
End Branch located at 1386 Pleasant Street.[44] Fall River has always been 
considered a transportation hub for the South Coast and Mount Hope Bay 
areas, due to its location along the Taunton River. In addition to the 
Fall River Line (discussed in the "History" section), Slade's Ferry ran 
from Fall River to Somerset since the 17th century, connecting the two 
communities. In 1875, Slade's Ferry Bridge was opened, connecting the two 
cities for trolley lines as well as cart (and later, car) traffic. It was 
a two-tiered steel swing-span bridge, extending over 1,100 feet (340 m) 
from Remington Avenue to the intersection of Wilbur Avenue, Riverside Avenue 
and Brayton Avenue in Somerset. This bridge was in use until 1970, when 
it was closed and subsequently demolished. (The path of the bridge is now 
roughly marked by twin sets of power lines crossing the river.) In 1903, 
the state authorized a second bridge, the Brightman Street Bridge, a four 
lane, 922-foot (281 m) long drawbridge ending at its namesake street, which 
opened in 1908 and is still standing today. The third bridge to span the 
river in Fall River was the Charles M. Braga, Jr. Memorial Bridge. Started 
in 1959 and opened in the spring of 1966, the six-lane cantilever truss 
highway bridge spans 1.2 miles (1.9 km) and was part of the project to 
build Interstate 195. By the 1980s, problems began to arise with the Brightman 
Street Bridge. It was often closed for repairs, which put much strain on 
local traffic, forced to take long detours across the nearby Braga Bridge. 
In 1983 plans were being made to build a new bridge 1,500 feet (460 m) 
north of the current one, which would directly link with Route 138. Plans 
were put on hold in 1989 due to Coast Guard concerns, but construction 
of the new span began in the late 1990s and continued until late 2011. 
Named the Veterans Memorial Bridge, in honor of all local veterans, it 
was formally dedicated on September 11, 2011, the tenth anniversary of 
9/11. Interstate 195 is now the main point of entry for the city, entering 
via the Braga Bridge from Somerset and leaving over "The Narrows," a small 
strip of land between the North and South Watuppa Ponds that carries Interstate 
195, Route 6 and Old Bedford Road into Fall River from Westport as the 
roads make their way east towards New Bedford and Cape Cod. The highway 
covers much of the old path parallel to the Bay Colony/New Bedford Cape 
Cod Railroad as well the original path of the Quequechan River, and has 
resulted in a unique situation—it is one of the few highways in the country 
with a city hall (officially known as "Fall River Government Center") standing 
directly on top of it. The tunnel which passes below Government Center 
was the site of an accident in March 1999, in which a cement ceiling tile, 
its supports worn away by corrosion, collapsed, landed on several cars 
but causing only minor injuries. The incident caused major traffic problems 
in the area, and bears a striking resemblance to the incident involving 
the I-90 tunnel collapse (a part of the Big Dig) in 2006. In addition to 
Interstate 195, Fall River is also served by four other major routes, which 
include Route 6 (which passes over the Brightman Street Bridge going west 
before joining the city grid then continuing east into Westport); Route 
24, a 2 Lane North/South divided highway linking Fall River to Boston and 
Newport; Route 79, another divided highway that begins at the Braga Bridge 
and continues northbound to Route 24; Route 138, which also enters the 
city via the Brightman Street Bridge before joining the city grid, passing 
southwards towards Aquidneck Island; and Route 81, which begins near the 
former site of the Quequechan River and travels south into Tiverton. Additionally, 
Route 177 clips the extreme southern part of the city for less than 0.25-mile 
(0.40 km) between Westport and Tiverton. Route 138, Route 24, I-195, and 
US 6 are based upon old Indian routes and trails. The Fall River State 
Pier is still in operation, bringing goods into the city via boat and by 
a freight train line which travels north from the pier parallel to Route 
79. Plans are in the works to add 2 commuter rail service lines known as 
the South Coast Rail "projects" to extend from Stoughton along the current 
Stoughton Line of the MBTA Commuter Rail Line, which would connect Fall 
River as well as Taunton and New Bedford to the MBTA rail system to points 
to and from Boston and other points around the state. The city, along with 
New Bedford, shares ownership of the Southeastern Regional Transit Authority 
(SRTA), a bus line which covers much of the south coast.[45] Until approximately 
1990, the Fall River Municipal Airport served as a general aviation airport 
for small planes and commuter flights to the Cape and Islands just north 
of the junction of Routes 79 and 24, but the airport has since closed, 
the land claimed for an industrial park. Commercial air service is served 
through T.F. Green Airport 13 miles west in Warwick, Rhode Island and at 
Logan International Airport 45 miles north in Boston, Massachusetts. Fall 
River has a rich soccer history. The game was first introduced to the city 
in the 1880s by the arrival of immigrants from Lancashire and Glasgow who 
worked in the local textile industry. In later decades the arrival of immigrants 
from Portugal helped to sustain the game's popularity. Between 1888 and 
1892 teams from Fall River won the American Cup five times in succession. 
One of these teams, Fall River Rovers also won the 1917 National Challenge 
Cup. The star and captain of the team was local-born Thomas Swords who, 
in 1916, captained the United States in their first official international. 
During the 1920s and early 1930s, Fall River Marksmen were one of the most 
successful soccer clubs in the United States and were American soccer champions 
on seven occasions. In 1932, another club, Fall River F.C., were also champions. 
The Marksmen also won the National Challenge Cup four times. Among their 
most notable players were Billy Gonsalves and Bert Patenaude, who were 
both raised in Fall River. In 1930 they both played for the United States 
at the first ever soccer World Cup. Patenaude is also credited with scoring 
the first ever hat-trick in World Cup history. He scored all three goals 
in the United States' 3–0 victory over Paraguay. During the 1940s, Ponta 
Delgada S.C. became one of the most successful amateur teams in the United 
States. In 1947 the team was selected en masse to represent the United 
States at the North American soccer championship. In 1950 two of their 
local born players, Ed Souza and John Souza, played at the World Cup and 
helped the United States defeat England, 1–0.[46] On January 18, 2011 Andrew 
Sousa was drafted by New England Revolution, thus becoming the first ever 
