A fan, or fanatic, sometimes also called aficionado or supporter, is a 
person who is enthusiastically devoted to something or somebody, such as 
a band, a sports team, a genre, a book, a movie or an entertainer. Collectively, 
the fans of a particular object or person constitute its fanbase or fandom. 
They may show their enthusiasm in a variety of ways, such as by promoting 
the object of their interest, being members of a fan club, holding or participating 
in fan conventions, or writing fan mail. They may also engage in creative 
activities ("fan labor") such as creating fanzines, writing fan fiction, 
making memes or drawing fan art. Merriam-Webster, the Oxford dictionary 
and other sources define "fan" as a shortened version of the word fanatic. 
The word first become popular in reference to baseball enthusiasts. Fanatic 
itself, introduced into English around 1550, means "marked by excessive 
enthusiasm and often intense uncritical devotion". It comes from the Modern 
Latin fanaticus, meaning "insanely but divinely inspired". The word originally 
pertained to a temple or sacred place [Latin fanum, poetic English fane]. 
The modern sense of "extremely zealous" dates from around 1647; the use 
of fanatic as a noun dates from 1650. However, the term "fancy" for an 
intense liking of something, while being of a different etymology, coincidentally 
carries a less intense but somewhat similar connotation to "fanatic". The 
word emerged as an Americanism around 1889.[1] The Dickson Baseball Dictionary 
cites William Henry Nugent's work asserting that it was derived from the 
fancy, a term from England referring to the fans of a specific hobby or 
sport from the early 18th century to the 19th, especially to the followers 
of boxing.[2] According to that theory, it was originally shortened to 
fance then just to the homonym fans. Supporter is a synonym to "fan" that 
predates the latter term and is still commonly used in British English, 
especially to denote fans of sports teams. However, the term "fan" has 
become popular throughout the English-speaking world, including the United 
Kingdom. The term supporter is also used in a political sense in the United 
States, to a fan of a politician, a political party, and a controversial 
issue. Fans usually have a strong enough interest that some changes in 
their lifestyles are made to accommodate devotion to the focal object. 
Fans have a desire for external involvement – they are motivated to demonstrate 
their involvement with the area of interest through certain behaviors (attending 
conventions, posting online, displaying team banners outside their homes, 
etc.). Fans often have a "wish to acquire" material objects related to 
the area of interest, such as a baseball hit by a famous slugger or a used 
guitar pick from their musical hero. As well, some fans have a desire for 
social interaction with other fans. This again may take many forms, from 
casual conversation, e-mail, chat rooms, and electronic mailing lists to 
regular face-to-face meetings such as fan club meetings and organized conventions. 
There are several groups of fans that can be differentiated by the intensity 
level of their level of involvement or interest in the hobby (level of 
fanaticism)[3] The likelihood for a subject of interest to be elevated 
to the level of fandom appears to be dictated by its complexity. Complexity 
allows further involvement of fans for a longer period of time because 
of the time needed to work the subject of interest 'out.' It also contributes 
to a greater sense of belonging because of the mental effort invested in 
the subject.[citation needed] These fans will often hold a crush on a major 
movie star, pop star, athlete or celebrity (see teen idol). The groupie 
is an example, a fan of a particular band or musician, who will follow 
them on concert tours. The degree of devotion to celebrities can range 
from a simple crush to the deluded belief that they have a special relationship 
with the star which does not exist. In extreme cases, this can lead to 
celebrity worship syndrome, stalking behavior. This can easily switch to 
hatred of the previously loved celebrity, and result in attempts at violent 
attacks, one notable incident being the death of Rebecca Schaeffer by a 
stalking fan in 1989. This is somewhat related to the concept of parasocial 
interaction where audiences develop one-sided relationships with media 
characters and celebrities. Gaming fans, or "gamers", are fans focused 
on playing non-sport games, usually role-playing games, board games, miniature 
wargames, collectible card games or video games. Music fans can differ 
somewhat from fans of particular musicians, in that they may focus on a 
genre of music. Many of the trade journals around music, such as Rolling 
Stone, were created by music fans. A notable music fan was groupie Cynthia 
Plaster Caster, famous for making numerous plaster casts of rock star's 
penises. Another was Pamela Des Barres, author of the book I'm With The 
Band. Fans who are not groupies prefer the term supporter. Popular musicals 
have their own particular sets of fans. Rent has boasted a sizable number 
of 'Rentheads' since its Broadway debut,[citation needed] and likewise 
those devoted to The Phantom of the Opera dub themselves 'Phans.' ('Phan' 
is not to be confused with a fangirl term revolving around a particular 
relationship). Otaku is a Japanese term for people with obsessive interests. 
In Japan, the term is normally derogatory, a connotation lacking in English, 
where it generally refers to people in the anime and manga fandom. People 
who approve of or associate themselves with certain politicians or political 
groups are generally called "supporters" rather than "fans", although there 
are politicians with official or unofficial "fan clubs". Intense and organized 
support for a politician may be referred to as a personality cult, particularly 
in authoritarian or totalitarian regimes. Fans of professional wrestling 
can be divided into two groups: marks and smarks. Derived from the same 
term for the prey of conmen, a mark is a fan who believes that everything 
associated with professional wrestling is real. In contrast, a "smark" 
is a fan who recognizes that they are witnessing a stage-managed work ("kayfabe"), 
but appreciates it nonetheless, including its backstage aspects. Since 
the 1920s, an increasingly elaborate sub-culture of organized science fiction 
fandom has arisen, initially among correspondents to the letter columns 
of science fiction magazines. This non-centralized movement has given birth 
to science fiction fanzines (and amateur press associations), science fiction 
conventions, the Hugo Awards (and various imitators/derivatives), filk 
music, "fan funds" such as the Trans Atlantic Fan Fund, and a variety of 
other institutions, jargon and customs. It has nurtured writers and artists 
such as Ray Bradbury, Roger Ebert, Lenny Kaye, Michael Moorcock and Trina 
Robbins; and has generated such spin-offs as comic book fandom, media fandom, 
the Society for Creative Anachronism, gaming fandom, and furry fandom, 
sometimes collectively referred to as "fringe fandoms". Science fiction 
fandom developed its own slang, known as fanspeak after the "Newspeak" 
of the novel Nineteen Eighty-four. Fanspeak is made up of acronyms, blended 
words, obscure in-jokes, puns, coinages from science fiction novels or 
films, and archaic or standard English words used in specific ways relevant 
or amusing to the science fiction community. Some fanspeak terms, like 
fanzine have become standard English. Some fanspeak terms relate to fans 
themselves: Specific sub-groups of science fiction fandom are often known 
by a collection term. For example: A sports fan can be an enthusiast for 
a particular athlete, team, sport, or all of organized sports as a whole. 
Sports fans often attend sporting events or watch them on television, and 
follow news through newspapers and Internet websites. The mentality of 
the sports fan is often such that they will experience a game, or event 
while living vicariously through players or teams whom the fan favors[original 
research?]. This behavior manifests itself in a number of different ways, 
depending on the venue. At a stadium or arena, sports fans will voice their 
pleasure with a particular incident, player, or team by cheering, which 
consists of clapping, fist-pumping, or shouting positive exclamations toward 
the field of play and ultimately, the favorable object. Likewise, displeasure 
toward a particular incident, player, or team may be met by fans with booing, 
shouting of expletives, and sometimes throwing of objects onto the field. 
This violent type of fan reaction is often called hooliganism. Lighter, 
more harmless objects are also occasionally thrown onto certain fields 
of play as a form of celebration of a favorable sports feat. This is most 
common when a member of the home team scores a hat trick in hockey. Other, 
more mild forms of displeasure shown by sports fans at sporting events 
involve simple groans of disappointment, and silence. These actions often 
denote that the favored home team is being outperformed by, or has lost 
to the much less-favored road team. In North America, extremely enthusiastic 
fans are often called "superfans": fans who dress up in outrageous and 
ostentatious costumes or outfits showing their devotion. Fanbases well 
known for their tenacious love and undying support are called rabid fans. 
These fans often congregate hours before kickoff in what is known as a 
tailgation. At sports bars, sports fans will gather together, often while 
consuming food and alcoholic beverages, with the purpose of following a 
particular sporting event on television as a group. Sports bars often advertise 
in hopes of drawing fans of a particular player or team to watch together 
to increase bonds between fans and prevent fights. This can create the 
sense of unity in a sports bar as all cheers and boos will appear to be 
synchronized due to similar feelings and reactions by nearly all fans at 
the fortunes and misfortunes of the favored team or athlete. Due to the 
level of devotion and intensity of feeling towards the favored team or 
athlete by sports bar patrons, as well as partially due to the alcohol 
being served, behavior that would be seen as unruly or fanatical outside 
a sports bar is generally more common inside of one. The intensity of cheering 
and jeering at a sports bar by sports fans can often range from equal to 
stronger than that of fans actually at the sporting event for particularly 
significant games and matches. At home, sports fans may have few fellow 
fans but also more freedom. This is sometimes where the most intense cheering 
or jeering will take place. In the fan's own home, unbridled and lengthy 
screaming, crying, acts of destruction to household objects, and other 
manifestations of joy or anguish, are perhaps seen as most acceptable in 
comparison to the sports bar or sporting venue simply because such acts 
taken to such an extreme can be seen as disruptive to a large number of 
fellow fans even if they share the same sentiment if it is of less intensity. 
The greatest variables of the reaction of a sports fan in their own home 
are the intensity of the fan's desire to see their team win or perform 
well, and the presence of another: often a wife, children, or friends who 
may be significantly less ardent sports fans or not sports fans at all, 
which may significantly temper the fan's reaction to a highly positive 
or negative moment due to the fear of causing a scene or scaring those 
close to the fan, or alienating themselves from said others. Often sports 
fans will invite other fans of relatively similar rooting intensity over 
to their house to experience a sporting event together so that all involved 
can voice pleasure or displeasure to their heart's content and increase 
shared bonds in the process. It is becoming common for this type of bonding 
to take place over sports-related social networks like eFans. The drivers 
that make people fans, and in particular sports fans, have been studied 
by psychologists, such as Dan Wann at Murray State University. They attribute 
people becoming fans to the following factors:[4] One element is entertainment, 
because sports spectatorship is a form of leisure. Sports is also a form 
of escapism, and being a fan gives one an excuse to yell at something, 
an activity that may be constrained in other areas of one's life. Fan activities 
give participants a combination of euphoria and stress (about the potential 
for their team to lose) for which they coin the name "eustress". Fans experience 
euphoria during moments when play is going well for their team, and stress 
when play is going against their team. This tension between the two emotions 
generates an unusual sense of pleasure or heightened sensations. Aesthetics 
are another draw for some fans, who appreciate the precision or skill of 
play, or of the coordinated movement of the players during a pre-planned 
"play". Family bonding is a reason for some fan activities. Some families 
go to sports games every month as a family outing to watch a sports event 
and form a psychological bond with one another as a family. Going to sports 
events can create a borrowed sense of self-esteem if fans identify with 
their teams to the extent that they consider themselves to be successful 
when their teams have been successful (e.g., as seen in the phrase "we 
have won"). If a fan identifies strongly with a favorite team, they will 
respond to the performance of the team as if team success were a personal 
success and team failure a personal failure.[5] Fan loyalty is the loyalty 
felt and expressed by a fan towards the object of his/her fanaticism. Allegiances 
can be strong or weak. The loyalties of sports fans have been studied by 
psychologists and have often been reviewed. Fangirls and fanboys in fandoms 
sometimes, with various meanings, consider their fandom to be their "family," 
and feel very loyal to it, usually. Fanboys are frequently portrayed as 
"angry nerds", over-aggressive, derogatory, and protective of the object 
of their obsession,[6] or as bespectacled, geekoid, obsessive male fans. 
The term nerd, defined as "[an] insignificant, foolish, or socially inept 
person; a person who is boringly conventional or studious; a person who 
pursues an unfashionable or highly technical interest with obsessive or 
exclusive dedication,"[7] as well as the term geek, defined as "[a] person 
[…] who is regarded as foolish, offensive, worthless; an overly diligent, 
unsociable student; any unsociable person obsessively devoted to a particular 
pursuit,"[8] are often used to describe stereotypical fanboys. In regards 
to chosen fandoms, they are typically associated with comic books, video 
games, science fiction movies or television series, or technology (such 
as computer or smartphone brands).[6] An exception to this portrayal is 
the sports fan, who is expected to be overtly sexual, and aggressive.[9] 
This portrayal is particularly dominant within the sports arena, which 
provides a legitimate site for men to act in hyper masculinized ways.[9] 
According to Williams, "Many [men] want to be overtly sexist and racist. 
They need to have this exaggerated sense of their sexuality to defend themselves 
from potential accusations that they are not real men."[10] According to 
Jackson Katz in the documentary Tough Guise 2, boys are taught early on 
that to be "real men" they need to be tough and not to show their feelings.[11] 
[Men] can't show any emotion except anger. We can't think too much or seem 
too intellectual. We can't back down when someone disrespects us. We have 
to show we're tough enough to inflict physical pain and take it in turn. 
We're supposed to be sexually aggressive with women. And then we're taught 
that if we step out of this box, we risk being seen as soft, weak, feminine, 
or gay.[11] He later elaborates, stating that, Qualities like compassion, 
caring, empathy, intellectual curiosity, fear, vulnerability, even love 
– basic human qualities that boys have inside them every bit as much as 
girls do – get methodically driven out of them by a sexist and homophobic 
culture that labels these things as 'unmanly,' 'feminine,' 'womanly,' and 
'gay,' and teaches boys to avoid them at all costs. And, most importantly, 
they're taught that real men turn to violence not as a last resort, but 
as the go-to method of resolving disputes – and also as a primary means 
of winning respect and establishing masculine credibility.[11] In the predecessor 
to this documentary, Tough Guise, Katz also addresses the issue of body 
image, using multiple movies, such as Terminator and Rambo, as well as 
action figures like GI Joe, to illustrate how 'real men' are defined as 
big, strong, and muscular.[12] Fanboy portrayals, by definition, do not 
fit into this mold of a 'real man', with the exception of sports fans. 
In a study by Gerard Jones on comic book fans, he described the comic book 
fanboys as "small, anxious, withdrawn, and terrified of the opposite sex."[13] 
Quite the opposite of the 'real man' previously described by Katz. Their 
interests may also be considered as a deviation from societal gender roles, 
according to Noah Berlastsky, such as playing Dungeons and Dragons instead 
of football.[14] This lack of traditional masculine traits warrants them 
much teasing from peers, parental figures, coaches, or older male role 
models for not conforming to these ideas of masculinity.[11][14][15] A 
popular example of such treatment in mainstream media is shown on the sitcom 
The Big Bang Theory, where, multiple times throughout the show's run, the 
four main characters, portrayed as 'nerdy fanboys', are humiliated by larger 
'real men'. For instance, in the show pilot, the two main characters, Leonard 
and Sheldon, get their pants taken by the main female character's ex-boyfriend, 
who is portrayed as big, strong, tough, confident, and successful with 
women.[16] Furthermore, fanboys also deal with issues of gender discrimination 
in relation to their fandom interests. For example, Bronies, a group of 
young men enthralled by the TV show My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic, 
a show typically geared towards young girls, are often the target of ridicule. 
Their interest in a 'feminine' media item can be the cause of great shame, 
causing many to become 'private' bronies, enjoying the show in secret out 
of fear.[17] Fanboys are often portrayed as quite angry, violent, and offensive 
while defending the objects of their affection, such as the smartphone 
fanboys who frequently verbally attack anybody saying anything the slightest 
bit offensive about their chosen technological product through online anonymous 
sites.[6] In fact, the term 'fanboy' is often used as an insult towards 
other fans, deemed unreasonable, arrogant, or overly loyal to their chosen 
token of affection. Such defensiveness is particularly prominent against 
women who are interested in their chosen fandoms or who pose a "threat" 
to their community. For example, in 2012, male gamers created a Flash game 
in which players could physically assault Anita Sarkeesian, a woman who 
launched a Kickstarter to create a series of documentaries on women tropes 
in video games.[18] These violent acts against Sarkeesian continued in 
2014, during the controversial event or movement known as GamerGate, during 
which Sarkeesian received numerous threats by fanboys due to her Tropes 
vs Women series on YouTube, where she analyzes the limited and sexist female 
roles available in video games. These threats escalated dangerously, requiring 
her to leave her home in fear for her safety, as well as cancel a speaking 
engagement at Utah State University after there were threats of a mass 
shooting on campus due to her presence.[19] Such discriminatory acts of 
violence towards women are not isolated cases. For instance, male comic 
book fans frequently harass women frequenting comic book shops, either 
by demeaning them or by hitting on them, causing them to feel uncomfortable 
and excluded from the fan community.[18][20][21] Fangirls are often portrayed 
as teenagers obsessed with something to a frightening degree. The term 
is often used in a demeaning, derogatory fashion to describe the fans that 
give "normal" fans a bad name. In fact, the term "fangirling" is used to 
describe anyone who obsessively follows a certain fandom to the point where 
it interferes with their daily lives. Such a trend of 'authentic' versus 
'inauthentic' fan is common within fan communities, and is particularly 
pertinent to gender discrimination and misogynistic ideals.[18] However, 
on the other hand of the spectrum, some so-called "fangirls" have embraced 
the title, considering it a compliment rather than a derogatory term. ERICA 
Women tend to be "more restricted in their leisure choices and opportunities 
than men,"[9] and their experiences within fandoms are typically demeaned 
to a more sexualized, emotional, or bodily experience, as opposed to intellectual 
interests.[22][23][24] For example, in music, women are more predominant, 
and accepted, within pop music fandoms, which Diane Railton describes as 
evoking an emotional and physical response, in contrast with the 'masculine' 
rock music, which is defined as 'serious' music with a 'meaning', focusing 
on political, cultural, and psychological discussion.[23] Due to this, 
women are rarely given space or voice within the intellectual realm of 
music.[23] According to Frank Zappa, "men come to hear the music and chicks 
come for the sex thrills,"[25] implying that women's involvement in fan 
communities is purely sexual, and that they are incapable of displaying 
intellectual or artistic interest in the music itself.[23] Those who do 
manage to become involved within the world of 'serious' music are often 
relegated to the realm of a 'groupie'.[22] A groupie, according to Cheryl 
Cline, is [A] person (a woman, usually), who 'chases after' rock stars, 
as my mother would say. But 'groupie' is also used more or less synonymously 
with 'girl Rock fan', 'female journalist', and 'woman Rock musician'; it's 
used to mean anyone working in the music field who isn't actually a Rock 
musician; it's used as an all-purpose insult and a slut on one's professionalism; 
it's used as a cute term for 'hero worship'; and it's used interchangeably 
with 'fan'.[22] In other words, the term 'groupie' (used synonymously with 
the term 'fan' or 'fangirl') is frequently used to shame women involved 
within the music community, restricting their involvement to sexual relations 
with band members or worshipping male rock stars.[22] This trend can also 
be observed within other fan communities, such as comic book fandoms, where 
women are frequently portrayed as "Fake Geek Girls", only interested in 
comic books to impress guys or to view the attractive men present within 
their content,[20][26] or sports communities, where women are often made 
uncomfortable at live sporting events due to the overt sexism and aggressive 
masculinity displayed by male spectators, and then labelled as 'inauthentic' 
for viewing the games via television instead.[9] Within hockey, female 
fans are often called "Puck Bunnies", defined as, [S]omeone who hangs around 
the players, always on the lookout for the chance to get that autograph 
/ photograph / quick pint [drink] / quick knee trem-bler round the back 
of the Arena from the player or players (or even coach) of their choice, 
heck let's face it even the water carrier is in with a chance here.[24] 
These labelling practices can be found repeated within many male-dominated 
fan communities, used to demean female fans and relegate them to a realm 
outside of 'real fans'.[citation needed] Such discrimination against female 
fans can become violent at times in an effort to police "authenticity".[18] 
The recent events known as GamerGate provide a good example of such attacks, 
whereby multiple women working within the gaming industry were victims 
of sexual harassment and violent threats, some even forced to leave their 
homes for fear of a physical confrontation.[19][27][28] In terms of their 
involvement within fandoms, fangirls are typically portrayed as losing 
all control, fainting, sobbing, and dashing about in mobs.[29] For instance, 
while describing the phenomenon of Beatlemania, fan activity is described 
by stating that: The appropriate reaction to contact with [the Beatles] 
– such as occupying the same auditorium or city block – was to sob uncontrollably 
while screaming, 'I'm gonna die, I'm gonna die,' or, more optimistically, 
the name of a favorite Beatle, until the onset of either unconsciousness 
or laryngitis. Girls peed in their pants, fainted, or simply collapsed 
from the emotional strain.[29] The fangirls' so-called 'hysteria' is described 
as the product of sexual repression.[29] However, while it is expected 
for women to be involved in certain fandoms for physical or sexual reasons, 
this is also viewed as undesirable and driven by hormonal changes. These 
acts of adoration are societally limited to adolescent youth, or menopausal 
women, in both instances blaming "these two periods of hormonal lunacy" 
on the irrational, overtly sexual behaviour.[22] For instance, Cheryl Cline, 
in her text entitled "Essays from Bitch: The Women's Rock Newsletter with 
Bite", discusses how women need to keep their interests hidden once they 
pass adolescence.[22] In her own words, "[i]t's a sign of maturity to pack 
up all the posters, photos, magazines, scrapbooks, and unauthorized biographies 
you so lovingly collected and shove them in the back of the closet.[22] 
Furthermore, while discussing Beatlemania and the crazed Beatles fangirl 
behaviour, Barbara Ehrenreich, Elizabeth Heiss, and Gloria Jacobs mention 
how the 'only cure' for what was at the time considered an affliction was 
age, and that similarly to "the girls who had screamed for Frank Sinatra," 
the Beatles fangirls would "[grow] up to be responsible, settled housewives."[29] 
These conflicting accounts of fangirl behaviour are due to the belief that 
women are not supposed to express such sexual fantasies unless influenced 
by some hormonal induced craziness, while for men it is normal to be sexual 
regardless of age.[22] As Cheryl Cline summarizes, It's much easier for 
a man to be indulgent about the crushes of teenage girls than it is for 
him to be fair-minded about the sexual fantasies of the woman he loves 
when they're about someone else. And the same guy who'll leave Penthouse 
in the bathroom will yell, 'No woman of mine is gonna hang a poster of 
Prince naked to the waist on the inside of the closet of the spare room 
where no one will see it!' […] [U]ntil you reach the age when everybody 
thinks you're crazy anyway, so why not admit to an intense hankering to 
