Fantasy baseball is a game in which people manage rosters of league baseball 
players, either online on in a physical location. The participants compete 
against one another using those players' real life statistics to score 
points. Materials in the Jack Kerouac Archive at the New York Public Library 
show that Kerouac (1922–69) played his own form of fantasy baseball starting 
quite young and continued developing and playing this perhaps private version 
of fantasy baseball during most of his life. His version of fantasy baseball 
was completely fictitious, with made up players and statistics. At the 
Library from November 2007 to February 2008, an exhibition on Kerouac's 
life and works includes several display cases of Kerouac's highly detailed 
fantasy baseball records, including charts, sketches, and notes.[1] In 
1961, another early form of fantasy baseball was coded for an IBM 1620 
computer by John Burgeson, IBM Akron, and distributed for several years 
by the IBM Corporation. It allowed two teams to play one another using 
random number generation and player statistics to determine a game's outcome, 
including a play-by-play description.[2][3] In the fall of 1961, Rege Cordic, 
a KDKA (Pittsburgh) radio personality, produced a radio show based on the 
program. The game was coded for a computer with only 20 KB in computer 
memory and was entirely self-contained. Other early forms of fantasy baseball 
were sometimes called "tabletop baseball". One of the best-known was APBA, 
which in 1951 began publishing a game containing customized baseball cards 
of Major League Baseball players with their stats from past seasons. Participants 
could then re-create previous seasons using the game rules and the statistics, 
or compose fantasy teams from the cards and play against each other. The 
first public open fantasy baseball game, Dugout Derby, was developed in 
1989 by Lee Marc, Robert Barbiere and Brad Wendkos of Phoneworks who teamed 
with a West Coast Ad Agency (Wakeman & deForest) to launch the game in 
twelve of the largest local newspapers across the country. Papers that 
offered Dugout Derby included the LA Times, Chicago Sun-Times, and NY Post. 
Archives of Dugout Derby are available in most public libraries. Dugout 
Derby allowed readers to create a team of major league players, earn stats 
for those players based on actual performance, trade those players on a 
daily basis, and accrue points in an effort to compete against one another 
to win prizes.[4] The so-called Rotisserie scoring system was essentially 
established by the Chicago Baseball League, founded in 1978 by Ivan R. 
Dee and others (and continuing in play), which preceded the Rotisserie 
League. The Chicago Baseball League also established the draft system to 
form individual teams.[5] The Rotisserie scoring system was developed independently 
and popularized in the 1980s by a group of journalists and formalized under 
the title Rotisserie League Baseball in 1980, named after the New York 
City restaurant La Rotisserie Française, where its founders met for lunch 
and first played the game.[6] Magazine writer-editor Daniel Okrent is credited 
with inventing the Rotisserie scoring system, coming up with the idea on 
a flight to Texas. After presenting his first vision of rotisserie baseball 
to friends there, none seemed interested.[7] Upon returning to New York 
a month later, he received an enthusiastic reception from a different group 
of friends, who then collaborated on the first league to use the system. 
According to the rules, players (termed "owners") in the Rotisserie League 
would draft teams from the list of active Major League Baseball players 
and would follow their statistics "during the ongoing season" to compile 
their scores. In other words, rather than using statistics for seasons 
whose outcomes were already known, the owners would have to make similar 
predictions about players' playing time, health, and expected performance 
that real baseball managers must make. Because Okrent was a member of the 
media, other journalists, especially sports writers, were introduced to 
the game. Many early players were introduced to the game by these sports 
journalists, especially during the 1981 Major League Baseball strike; with 
little else to write about, many baseball writers wrote columns about Rotisserie 
league. Rotisserie league baseball, nicknamed roto, proved to be popular, 
even in the 1980s when full statistics and accurate reporting were often 
hard to come by. The traditional statistics used in early Rotisserie leagues 
were often chosen because they were easy to compile from newspaper box 
scores and then from weekly information published in USA Today. Okrent, 
based on discussions with colleagues at USA Today, credits Rotisserie league 
baseball with much of the early success of USA Today, since the paper provided 
much more detailed box scores than most competitors and eventually even 
created a special paper, Baseball Weekly, which almost exclusively contained 
statistics and box scores. Local papers soon caught up with USA Today's 
expanded coverage. The advent of powerful computers and the Internet revolutionized 
fantasy baseball, allowing scoring to be done entirely by computer, and 
allowing leagues to develop their own scoring systems, often based on less 
popular statistics. In this way, fantasy baseball has become a sort of 
real-time simulation of baseball, and allows many fans to develop a more 
sophisticated understanding of how the real-world game works. According 
to statistics from a 2009 article in Forbes, nearly 11 million people play 
fantasy baseball today.[8] Fantasy baseball has continued to grow [based 
on recent studies from the Fantasy Sports Trade Association (FSTA.org)], 
but has been overtaken by fantasy football as the most popular form of 
fantasy sports. This is at least in part because some of those sports, 
such as football and auto racing, only participate once a week, making 
it easier for players to make adjustments, since they do not have to check 
their teams daily. Rotisserie leagues and their descendants typically draft 
teams before the season begins (or very shortly thereafter). One approach 
is to hold an auction, whereby each owner has a fixed amount of money to 
bid for players, and he must fill his team's roster within their budget. 
Another approach is to perform a serpentine system draft of available players 
until all teams are filled. In either case, the skills of the team managers 
come into play in the "preseason" by their knowledge of the talent and 
ability to forecast the performance of Major League Baseball players and 
prospects for the coming season. The team managers draw on a great variety 
of sources of information, including tout sheets by various forecasters, 
who predict the coming season's performance and the likely overall "value" 
(often in terms of auction dollars) of the Major League players. Many leagues 
allow teams to trade with each other during the season, as well as to replace 
players who get hurt or stop performing well with players from the pool 
of those who are not presently owned. However, some leagues prohibit such 
in-season "free agent" replacements, feeling that the game is more interesting 
when teams must live and die by the quality of their draft. Also, some 
leagues limit free-agent moves that a fantasy team can make per season, 
and a team may not just drop all of their players if they are not progressing 
well during a season. The free-agent limit is also sometimes used to limit 
the so-called "pitch-and-ditch" tactic, a method of play in which a manager 
picks up a free-agent pitcher with the intention of using him in only one 
game before replacing him with a pitcher who is scheduled to start the 
following day. Another common limitation on the free agent system is a 
list of "undroppable players", who are players considered by whatever site 
is running the game to be too valuable to become free agents. In most leagues, 
when a player who was injured returns to play, it is the choice of the 
team manager who to drop from his team. Usually, they are not forced to 
drop the replacement. Some companies actually offer real-world insurance 
on fantasy league players. Baseball has garnered great interest in the 
daily fantasy sports industry as a legal alternative to sports betting. 
Termed a skill game, a competitor can pick players from that days game 
to participate in daily fantasy leagues. Many fantasy leagues are played 
for money. Owners pay an ante or entry fee at the beginning of the season 
and may also be charged for in-season activity such as trades and "free 
agent" acquisitions. The pool of money is collected and then distributed 
to the winner(s) at the end of the season. Most often, however, the main 
reward of fantasy games is bragging rights or pride in the participants' 
ability to assess baseball talent. Established leagues often have a plaque 
or trophy that is passed to the annual champion. There are different ways 
to play fantasy baseball. One way to play is a head-to-head format that 
makes each individual team play against a different team each week to acquire 
wins through total points scored for the week. Teams with the most wins 
at the end of the season often enter into a playoff similar to the MLB 
postseason. The winner is the team that doesn't lose in the playoffs, or 
has the most points at the end of season if the league does not hold playoffs. 
Another style, the original style of playing fantasy, is rotisserie. The 
statistics compiled by the players from each team are then ranked by category, 
and the team with the highest cumulative rank at the end of the season 
is determined to be the winner. Fantasy Baseball can be played on numerous 
websites. The original Rotisserie League used the following statistics: 
This is often called a "4×4" league (four hitting stats and four pitching 
stats). Many leagues adopt a "5×5" format, with runs scored and strikeouts 
added as hitting and pitching stats, respectively. Still other leagues 
are "6×6", most commonly adding OPS (OBP plus SLG), and holds. Occasionally, 
a league will adopt a format that keeps track of more statistics (such 
as a "7×7"), vary the stats tracked to favor hitting or pitching, or include 
fielding statistics such as fielding percentage. Other modifications to 
the rules include a minimum number of at-bats and innings pitched for categories 
that are averaged; teams that do not make the minimum were awarded last 
place in the respective categories. Typical set-ups for head-to-head leagues 
are: Opponents are dictated by a round-robin system. At the end of the 
season, the team with the best win-loss record is the victor. Many head-to-head 
leagues also feature playoffs over the last three to four weeks of the 
MLB regular season. A set number of teams make the "postseason" and play 
a single-elimination tournament to decide a victor. The growing popularity 
of fantasy baseball has created a niche for fantasy baseball trade referees. 
Owners of fantasy teams often trade players, and often those trades incite 
disputes within leagues. Third party websites provide fantasy players a 
place to have their trades reviewed by a panel of "judges" in exchange 
for a fee. Decisions are rendered based on the specifications, number of 
teams, statistical catego able to modern-day fantasy players. New fantasy 
baseball formats have appeared that combine a traditional points-based 
competition with a liquid market that is used to facilitate real-time player 
trading. These games eliminate the need for fantasy trade judging by having 
team owners buy and sell players on a trading floor instead of negotiating 
trades directly with other owners. Another new format of fantasy sports 
is 'daily fantasy sports'. Rather than joining leagues and selecting rosters 
that compete for an entire season, competitors are able to draft a line-up 
for a single day and compete against others with cash being awarded to 
the winner just hours after the games on the field that day have ended. 
A typical contest would pit two, four or six people against each other. 
There are also fantasy baseball leagues that specialize in the Major League 
Baseball playoffs. Many fantasy baseball leagues stop their seasons at 
the end of the regular season. Simulation games use computer programs, 
processing actual MLB player statistics, to generate results for contests 
matching teams comprising MLB players 'drafted' by 'owners.' This is thought 
to produce an experience which is more akin to that of being a real general 
manager. Any fantasy baseball pool that "rolls over" into other years is 
called a "Keeper" or "Dynasty" league. The leagues can be run each year 
in any of the above formats with a winner declared at the end of each season. 
At the end of the year team managers decide which players they wish to 
protect (the number varies – from protecting and keeping all players, to 
keeping just one player). Before the MLB season opener, a fantasy draft 
is held to fill out the rest of the roster. Many keeper leagues, as well 
as some single season leagues, have adopted salary cap rules similar to 
the NBA. In a "Salary Cap League", a salary is assigned to each player 
before the manager selects his team. Salaries are usually determined by 
the MLB player's real salary. Otherwise a number value is assigned – usually 
by an online baseball pool program – or it is determined through an auction 
process.[9] Each manager must ensure that they do not go over the predefined 
salary cap when selecting players. One emerging option for a keeper league 
is the Draft Round Values system. This is a Sabermetric approach for determining 
the values of players selected in a particular round. The round a player 
was selected in the previous season is conceded in the upcoming seasons 
draft when they are elected to be carried over. Tables are provided with 
these values and a conversion chart that calculates the rounds to be conceded 
when multiple players from the same round selected as keepers. These tables 
also work for balancing multiple player trades. Keeper leagues are especially 
easy in auction formats, where last year's dollar values can be used to 
calculate keeper values. At least one league uses this system in combination 
with a minimum rookie keeper wage scale with great success.[10] Also some 
leagues have introduced a rookie draft into their fantasy league. By using 
the rankings from the last season to determine the draft order, last place 
gets first pick and so on. Also in some leagues, trading picks is allowed, 
