Coordinates: 42°42′51″N 74°55′43″W﻿ / ﻿42.714066°N 74.92855°W﻿ / 42.714066; 
-74.92855 The Farmers' Museum is located in Cooperstown, New York, and 
is probably the second-best-known attraction in the town, after the Baseball 
Hall of Fame and Museum. It overlooks Otsego Lake and recreates rural life 
from the 19th century through exhibits and interactive workshops. There 
are more than two dozen authentic, historic buildings on the grounds, including 
a tavern, a farmstead, a printing office, a pharmacy, a blacksmith's shop, 
a doctor's office and a general store. There are also exhibits of nineteenth-century 
games, a children's barnyard and the Cardiff Giant. The Farmers' Museum 
is home to the Empire State Carousel, a hand-crafted merry-go-round which 
celebrates New York State's history, culture and environment through a 
full-sized handcrafted merry-go-round built on a vintage 1947 36-foot Alan 
Herschell carousel mechanism. The carousel is the result of efforts made 
by carver Gerry Holzman of Islip, NY and over 1,000 volunteers from across 
New York State. The entire production took over two decades. Its artwork 
incorporates 25-hand carved animals that represent the agricultural and 
natural resources of New York State.[1] The site of The Farmers' Museum 
has been part of a working farm since 1813, when it was owned by James 
Fenimore Cooper, author of The Last of the Mohicans. Judge Samuel Nelson, 
whose office is part of The Farmers' Museum Village, bought the farm in 
1829 and raised sheep there. Fenimore Farm, as it came to be known, changed 
hands again in the 1870s, when it was acquired by the Clark family. In 
1918, Edward Severin Clark built a modern, fully equipped complex at Fenimore 
Farm for his prize herd of cattle. The barn, creamery, and herdsman's cottage 
are still standing today and are part of the museum complex. Designed by 
architect Frank Whiting in the Colonial Revival style, these buildings 
were constructed of local stone. Today, they house museum offices, exhibition 
spaces, and public areas. The structures are listed on the National Register 
of Historic Places. The Farmers' Museum opened its doors to the public 
in 1944. At that time, the museum had 5,000 tools and objects, including 
important collections amassed by the Otsego County Historical Society; 
William B. Sprague, founder of the Early American Industries Association; 
and the Wyckoff family, one of Brooklyn's oldest farming families. Today 
the museum's collections number more than 23,000 artifacts. The Farmers' 
Museum is a private, non-governmental educational organization. It is closely 
affiliated with its sister organization, Fenimore Art Museum, the museum 
showcase of the New York State Historical Association. The museum has more 
than 23,000 artifacts reflecting 19th century farm life in central New 
York.[2] They are housed in over two dozen buildings across the campus.[3] 
The museum also includes working exhibits. There are skilled workers printing 
real documents, such as the rules of baseball, at the print shop, and weavers 
producing cloth at looms. The smithy works to produce hinges, tools and 
other products ordered by local farmers. At the pharmacy, insect repellent 
is produced. The skilled craftspeople are available to answer questions 
