In sports, a farm team, farm system, feeder team, or nursery club, is generally 
a team or club whose role is to provide experience and training for young 
players, with an agreement that any successful players can move on to a 
higher level at a given point. This system can be implemented in many ways, 
both formally and informally. The term is also used as a metaphor for any 
organization or activity that serves as a training ground for higher-level 
endeavors. For instance, business schools are occasionally referred to 
as "farm clubs" in the world of business.[citation needed] In the United 
States and Canada, Minor League Baseball teams operate under strict franchise 
contracts with their major league counterparts. Although the vast majority 
of such teams are privately owned and are therefore able to switch affiliation, 
those players under contract with the affiliated Major League Baseball 
team are under their exclusive control, and would move to the MLB club's 
new affiliate. Not all players on a minor league team are under contract 
with the MLB club; however, the parent club has the exclusive right to 
"purchase" the contract of a non-contract player at its affiliate. Minor 
league teams are usually based in smaller cities and players who are contracted 
to them, as opposed to major league players sent down to this level for 
rehabilitation or other professional-development assignments, are typically 
paid significantly less than their Major League counterparts. Most major 
league players start off their careers by working their way up the minor 
league system, from the lowest (Rookie) to the highest (AAA) classification, 
with the rare exceptions usually being those players signed from Japan's 
Nippon Professional Baseball. Since the elimination of the Bonus Rule, 
only a very small number of amateur players have gone directly into the 
MLB, including John Olerud, Jim Abbott, and Dave Winfield. The process 
of a player working his way up through the minor leagues is formally referred 
by most MLB teams as "player development". However, minor league affiliates 
are often informally referred to as "farm teams" and a major league player's 
misfortune of being sent back to the minors is sometimes described as being 
"farmed out". The farm system as it is recognized today was invented by 
Branch Rickey,[1] who – as field manager, general manager, and club president 
– helped to build the St. Louis Cardinals dynasty during the 1920s, 30s, 
and 40s. When Rickey joined the team in 1916, players were commonly purchased 
by major league teams from independent, high-level minor league clubs. 
Rickey, a keen judge of talent, became frustrated when the players he had 
scouted at the A and AA levels were sold by those independent clubs to 
wealthier rivals such as the Chicago Cubs and the New York Giants. With 
the support of Cardinal owner Sam Breadon, Rickey devised a plan whereby 
St. Louis would purchase and control minor league teams from Class D to 
Class AA (the highest level at the time), thus allowing them to promote 
or demote players as they developed, and "grow" their own talent. The talent 
pipeline began at tryout camps that St. Louis scouts conducted throughout 
the U.S. "From quantity comes quality," Rickey once observed, and, during 
the 1930s, with as many as 40 owned or affiliated farm teams, the Cardinals 
controlled the destinies of hundreds of players each year. (The reserve 
clause then bound players to their teams in perpetuity.) The Cardinals 
won nine National League pennants and six World Series championships between 
1926 and 1946, proving the effectiveness of the farm system concept. Indeed, 
the second club to fully embrace such a system, the New York Yankees, used 
it to sustain their dynasty from the mid-1930s through the middle of the 
1960s. When Rickey moved to the Brooklyn Dodgers as president, general 
manager and part-owner in 1943, he proceeded to build a hugely successful 
farm system there as well. Moreover, the teams that ignored the farm system 
in the 1930s and early 1940s (such as the Philadelphia A's and Phillies 
and the Washington Senators) found themselves falling on hard times. The 
existence of the minor league system is due in part to MLB's ability to 
include a reserve clause in its contracts with minor league players, which 
gives the major league team exclusive rights to a player even after the 
contract has expired. In a landmark 1922 Supreme Court decision, Federal 
Baseball Club v. National League, baseball was granted a special immunity 
from antitrust laws. Despite the advent of free agency in 1976, which led 
many to predict the demise of the farm system, it still remains a strong 
component of a winning baseball strategy. The teams of the National Hockey 
League also have their own farm teams in the American Hockey League (AHL). 
For example, the Cleveland Monsters are the farm team for the Columbus 
Blue Jackets. Additionally, NHL teams have affiliates in the ECHL, although 
the terms of the most recent CBA (expired in 2012) prohibited ECHL players 
from being recalled to the NHL or being sent down to that league without 
being assigned to the AHL first; thus, ECHL teams are de facto affiliated 
to their respective NHL-partner's farm team in the AHL. Unlike baseball, 
not all the players on the rosters of the minor league teams are owned 
by an NHL team. The AHL system recognizes two types of contracts: the two-way 
contract (generally the most common among NHL prospects), in which players 
can be sent back and forth between the NHL and AHL at will, and the standard 
contract, which binds the player to the AHL. The NHL teams have negotiating 
rights to AHL players on their farm clubs' rosters and can upgrade a player 
to a two-way contract if they so desire. Players can also be sent down 
to the AHL via the waivers system; if a player is not claimed by any team 
when placed on waivers, he is by default assigned to his previous team's 
AHL club. In many clubs, there will be internal feeder teams. These may 
be age-restricted teams, such as an 'Under-18s' team, or an 'A team'. For 
example, in international association football, national teams also operate 
youth sides, - see England national under-21 football team, for example. 
In the United States, some Major League Soccer teams previously had reserve 
teams in the MLS Reserve League. Now all must have a reserve team or an 
affiliate in the United Soccer League, the third tier of the United States 
soccer league system.[2] In many sports, these feeder teams will compete 
in their own leagues, though in some cases they compete with other 'full 
teams' at a lower level. In some countries, such as New Zealand, major 
teams are organised as regional franchises, and local club sides within 
these regions become automatic feeder clubs for these regional teams. It 
is also becoming more common for football clubs to arrange formal deals 
with other clubs with which they originally had no connection. The feeder/parent 
club connection could have many functions, and be very beneficial both 
for the feeder and the parent club. For bigger clubs, it is common to arrange 
agreements with the minor clubs in the area. The smaller teams can provide 
the bigger team (the parent club) with young talents, and the mother club 
have an opportunity to send their young players away on loan to these teams 
("to farm out"). In addition to local connection, it is increasingly commonplace 
for teams to have feeder clubs in other regions of the country or in other 
nations, in order to gain further knowledge. Prominent European clubs are 
often making intercontinental deals with other clubs for the same reason. 
AFC Ajax have for instance a connection with the South African team Ajax 
Cape Town, Manchester United have a connection with the Australian team 
Wollongong Wolves and the Belgian team Royal Antwerp, and Lithuanian side 
FBK Kaunas have loaned many of their younger players out to their Scottish 
parent team Heart of Midlothian in the hope of securing them a deal at 
a bigger club in the future. Having a feeder club in wealthy countries, 
where football is gaining a gradually better reputation, has also proved 
to be very beneficial. Countries such as the United States, Canada, Japan, 
China and South Korea are good examples. Alternatively, some clubs within 
the European Union have used feeder teams to sign non-EU players and then 
naturalize them in an EU country, to overcome visa regulations, for example 
English team Liverpool F.C. has an agreement with Belgian side KRC Genk. 
The National Football League is the only one of the four major professional 
sports in the USA that does not have a farm system. Nearly all of its players 
are drafted from the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), which 
operates on a scholarship system that prohibits the payment of cash but 
provides student-athletes with free college education, room and board for 
up to five years. The relation between college football and the NFL is 
a result of the development of the game of American football, which (unlike 
other sports, which were primarily independent club activities) was cultivated 
at colleges and universities. As a result, players entering the professional 
football system are generally several years older and more physically mature 
than first-time professional athletes in other sports, thus reducing the 
need for a farm system. In the 1930s, the Chicago Bears and New York Giants 
owned teams in the American Association, which became the first true minor 
league in professional football. In the 1960s, several NFL teams had agreements 
with the Atlantic Coast Football League to use their teams as farm teams, 
though they were not owned by the NFL owners. The most recent official 
minor league, NFL Europe, was different from most other farm teams in that 
all prospects were pooled and dispersed among the six European teams, instead 
of having teams assigned to each other. The only thing resembling a minor 
league system in the NFL is the practice squad, but players on each team's 
practice squad do not appear in any in-game action. Many players in the 
Canadian Football League and Arena Football League (among other indoor 
American football leagues) later advance to the NFL, but no farming contracts 
exist among any teams. During the mid-2000s, several NFL owners at least 
partially owned arena football teams, such as Jerry Jones (Dallas), Arthur 
Blank (Atlanta), Bud Adams (Tennessee), Tom Benson (New Orleans), and Pat 
Bowlen (Denver), but very rarely did they ever promote or demote any players 
between the AFL and NFL, due in part to significant differences in the 
playing schedules and the style of play between outdoor and indoor football. 
All of the NFL owners backed out of the league when it went bankrupt, was 
sold off and reorganized. The United Football League operated mainly as 
a senior league for players who formerly played in the NFL but no longer 
are on NFL rosters. The UFL no longer is playing due to systemic financial 
shortfalls. In Canada, intercollegiate sport has never attained a similar 
level of following compared to the United States, mainly due to ice hockey 
being the most popular sport in the country. In hockey, the National Hockey 
League has historically overlooked intercollegiate sport in favour of other 
player development models. Nevertheless, the Canadian Football League has 
established itself as a niche league despite collecting only a fraction 
of the revenues commanded by the NFL. To recruit talented players, the 
league to a large part relies on maintaining rules that are similar enough 
to American football so as to allow talented NCAA-trained players a reasonable 
prospect of adapting and being successful in the CFL, while retaining significant 
enough differences so as to ensure that the league is largely not in competition 
with the NFL for exactly the same type of players. In addition, to maintain 
the league's distinct Canadian identity, the league enforces a strict quota 
of Canadian players that must be on the rosters of all CFL teams. The Arena 
Football League had its own developmental league known as the af2 from 
2000 to 2009. Traditionally, the NBA did not have a formal farm league. 
It mainly relies on the elite NCAA to produce NBA players, and thus the 
latter was often known as the "feeders". Since 2001, the NBA directly owns 
an entire farm league: the National Basketball Association Development 
League. The NBA D-League started with eight teams in the fall of 2001. 
In March 2005, NBA commissioner David Stern announced a plan to expand 
the NBA D-League to fifteen teams and develop it into a true minor league 
farm system, with each NBA D-League team affiliated with one or more NBA 
teams. Although the system has been run for a few years, most of the rookies 
in NBA are still drafted out from NCAA. At the conclusion of the 2008-09 
NBA season, 20 percent of NBA players had spent time in the NBA D-League. 
Some sports allow the operation of independent feeder teams. In professional 
cycling, for example, feeder teams such as Vendée U and Trek Livestrong, 
act as a feeders for Bouygues Télécom and Team RadioShack respectively, 
and compete at levels below the UCI ProTour. Most pro-cycling teams use 
this format. Such agreements may be less formal; in English football, for 
example, the operation of an external feeder team is prohibited. However, 
casual relationships may exist between teams to allow a sharing of larger 
clubs' resources with smaller clubs, in return for the smaller teams taking 
young players on loan. This allows both clubs to maintain separate identities, 
and to exit from the arrangement if necessary. Such an agreement exists 
between Preston North End and Holker Old Boys, for example [1]. Alternatively, 
clubs may use teams playing abroad, particularly if they want to follow 
the progress of players who they cannot sign due to work permit regulations. 
Please see List of feeder teams in football for a comprehensive list. Professional 
wrestling utilizes a farm system that allows inexperienced wrestlers to 
develop their skills and gain in ring experience in smaller, often regional 
promotions before they are called up to compete in front of a global/national 
audience. Generally called farm leagues or developmental territories, some 
of the more notable ones for WWE include Heartland Wrestling Association 
(late 1990s) - which was also a developmental territory for World Championship 
Wrestling, International Wrestling Association (1999–2001), Memphis Championship 
Wrestling (2000–2001), Deep South Wrestling (2005–2007), NXT Wrestling 
(2007–present; formerly Florida Championship Wrestling), Ohio Valley Wrestling 
(2000–2008, 2011–2013 for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling). In addition, 
smaller companies such as Ring of Honor and Total Nonstop Action Wrestling, 
Independent promotions such as Global Force Wrestling, Pro Wrestling Guerrilla, 
Combat Zone Wrestling and EVOLVE or the now-defunct Extreme Championship 
Wrestling can act as unofficial feeder leagues, seasoning wrestlers until 
a larger company offers them a contract. Formula One teams often use the 
most promising drivers from divisions such as the GP2 Series, the former 
Formula 3000 championship and Formula Two, with the majority of GP2's champions 
graduating to F1. Ten drivers on the grid for 2011 have previously raced 
in GP2. Scuderia Toro Rosso also serves as a sort of farm team for Red 
Bull Racing. Both are owned by Austrian beverage company Red Bull, with 
Toro Rosso helping to develop cars and drivers for Red Bull Racing. Four-time 
world champion Sebastian Vettel drove for Toro Rosso from 2007–2008 and 
made the move to Red Bull in 2009, replacing the retiring David Coulthard. 
NASCAR, the principal body for stock car racing in North America, has an 
extensive system of developmental series, with the ultimate goal for drivers 
being a ride in the top-level Sprint Cup Series. Most Cup Series teams 
are involved in at least one of NASCAR's two other national series, either 
running vehicles in the junior series or affiliating with teams that run 
exclusively in those series: Below the two national series are multiple 
regional series. Cup Series teams generally do not participate at these 
levels, but extensively scout them for future talent. The entry level of 
NASCAR-sanctioned racing is the Whelen All-American Series, a championship 
for drivers who compete in weekly races at small tracks, often dirt tracks, 
throughout the U.S. and Canada. Regional champions and an overall series 
champion are crowned. The Premier Arena Soccer League is a farm system 
