Fastpitch softball, also known as fastpitch or fastball, is a form of softball 
played commonly by women and men, though coed fast-pitch leagues also exist. 
The International Softball Federation (ISF) is the international governing 
body of softball. The ISF recognizes three pitching styles: fast pitch, 
"modified" fast pitch, and slow pitch.[1] Fast pitch is considered the 
most competitive form of softball. It is the form of softball that was 
played at the Olympic Games in 1996, 2000, 2004, and 2008. The fast pitch 
style is also used in college softball and international competition. Pitchers 
throw the ball with an underhand motion at speeds up to 75 miles per hour 
(121 km/h) for women and up to 85 miles per hour (137 km/h) for men.[2][3] 
The pitching style of fastpitch is different from that of slowpitch softball. 
Pitchers in fast-pitch softball usually throw the ball using a "windmill" 
type of movement. In this style of pitching, the pitcher begins with his 
arm at the hip. A common way to be taught how to pitch is using the motions, 
'repel', 'rock', 'kick', 'drag', 'toss'. The pitcher then brings the ball 
in a circular motion over the head, completes the circle back down at the 
hip, and snaps the hand. A "modified" fast pitch is identical to a "windmill" 
pitch except the arm is not brought over the head in a full windmill motion, 
but instead is brought behind the body and is then thrust directly forward 
for the release. Another type of pitching movement is the "figure 8". With 
this style, the ball is not brought over the head at all but down and behind 
the body and back in one smooth motion tracing out a figure eight. There 
are many different pitches which can be thrown, including a two-seam fastball, 
four-seam fastball, changeup, two different riseballs, two dropballs, curveball, 
offspeed, screwball, knuckleball and more. These pitches can be taught 
in many different styles, depending on the pitching coach's method and 
the player's abilities. Catching is also a very important part of fast 
pitch softball. Without a fast-paced catcher, the pitcher will not succeed. 
The catcher needs to be able to recognize the batters, their hitting style, 
and the right pitches to call. If there is a bad pitch that hits the ground, 
the catcher needs to block it so runs do not score, and runners do not 
advance on the bases. Catchers are protected by a chest guard, helmet, 
mouth guard, leg protectors, and a specialized mitt. This is due to the 
proximity of the batters to the catcher; it is a dangerous position so 
one must always be alert. Catchers are responsible for throwing runners 
out when they try and steal bases, meaning that a catcher must have a strong 
arm and a quick throw. The catcher is the brains of the team, and carries 
it as a whole. The game of fastpitch softball is similar to baseball, and 
includes stealing bases and bunting. Unlike baseball, however, there is 
no "leading off" - the baserunner can only leave the base when the pitcher 
releases the ball. Most leagues use the "dropped third strike" rule, which 
allows the batter to attempt an advance to first base when the catcher 
fails to catch the third strike. Fast pitch softball became a very popular 
sport in the US during the '30s and '40s. Commercial and semi-pro leagues 
sprang up all over the country in large cities and small towns alike. Both 
men's and women's leagues were popular and it was not unusual for both 
to be playing on the same night in a "double-header". Because of the speed 
of these games, they were very popular with spectators. During those years, 
the women's games were popular and fun to watch but the real draws were 
the men's games. Pitchers that could hurl the ball in excess of 85 mph 
at a batter 46 feet away could strike out 15 to 20 batters a game. To make 
things even more difficult, the underhand delivery meant the ball was rising 
as it approached the plate and a talented pitcher could make the ball perform 
some baffling aerobatics on its journey to the batter's box. The Amateur 
Softball Association was formed in 1934 and held a National tournament 
each year to determine the best softball team in the nation. Soon there 
were state and regional tournaments all over the country selecting teams 
to vie for the coveted National Championship. Competition was fierce with 
teams competing not only on the field but in recruiting the best "fire 
baller" around. It was not unusual for a talented pitcher to be recruited 
by the winning team after his team was eliminated from a tournament. It 
was rumored that some of these "amateurs" were making fair living from 
playing softball. Fast pitch softball started to lose popularity in the 
mid-50s for a variety of reasons. More and more families were getting television 
in their homes and so games drew smaller crowds. More teams were starting 
to play “slow pitch” with its greater emphasis on fielding. Although men’s 
fast pitch softball is still played, the game is now mostly played by women. 
One of the most important events in softball history occurred when the 
ASA sent the Connecticut Brakettes of Stratford, Connecticut to compete 
in ISF Women’s World championship in 1965. The Brakettes were the ASA's 
first women’s softball team and they finished the competition with a record 
of 8–3 and a silver medal.[4] After the championship, the Brakettes travelled 
to many locations around the world to serve as ambassadors for the sport. 
During the trip, the coaches and players held softball clinics to give 
a diverse group of people a better understanding of softball.[4] As the 
worldwide participation in softball continued to grow, the sport was eventually 
included in the 1996 Summer Olympic Games at Atlanta, Georgia. The ASA 
responded by developing a coaching pool consisting of the best coaches 
in the country along with a selection committee which would recruit the 
most talented US softball players. The selection committee was responsible 
for making the final cuts to decide which players would compete for the 
US team at all international competitions throughout the year. The strategy 
was successful as the United States won their first olympic gold medal 
in softball against China with a 3–0 win. This success was followed by 
two more olympic gold medals and seven world Championships. The number 
of Division I softball teams in the US has grown from 222 in 1997 to 277 
in 2007. The number of youth teams also increased from 73,567 in 1995 to 
86,049 in 2007.[5] In July 2005, IOC members voted 52–52 (with one abstention), 
to remove softball (along with baseball) from the Olympic program after 
the 2008 Olympic Games. Softball and baseball needed a majority vote to 
stay. The two sports were the first to be cut since polo in 1936. One of 
the reasons softball was considered for elimination from the Olympics was 
because there was not enough global participation and not enough depth 
of talent worldwide to merit Olympic status. In the three Summer Olympics 
which included a softball competition, four countries won medals: the United 
States, Australia, China and Japan. In response to the expressed concern 
that there was not enough talent depth worldwide, the ISF began to introduce 
the game in places where softball is not traditionally played. For example, 
the US team donated equipment and hosted coaching clinics in the Middle 
East, Africa and Europe. The US team's Jessica Mendoza has also delivered 
equipment and conducted clinics in other countries such as Brazil, the 
Czech Republic and South Africa. After softball's elimination from 2012 
Olympics became a possibility, the ASA created the World Cup of Softball 
in Oklahoma City in 2005. This event allows the top countries in the world 
to compete on a yearly basis. The 2005 World Cup of Softball drew over 
18,000 fans around the world for a competition between the top five international 
softball teams. The World Cup of Softball was later established as one 
of the premier events for the sport of softball. At the second World Cup 
of Softball, the attendance record was broken and the television ratings 
were higher than in any previous US Softball event on ESPN and ESPN2. The 
US team expressed hope that the increasing popularity of this event will 
allow the sport to return to the Summer Olympic Games. Softballs are created 
in many different sizes. In fast pitch softball, most leagues use a ball 
with a circumference of 12 inches (30 cm) that weighs 6.25 ounces (177 g). 
Younger players generally play with an 11-inch (28 cm) circumference ball. 
The ball has a leather or synthetic leather surface and may optionally 
have a raised seam. The ball's color has changed over time: most leagues 
have switched from a white ball to a high-visibility "optic" yellow ball; 
some men's leagues still use the white ball. Bats in fastpitch softball 
come in various sizes and consist of wood, metal or other composite materials. 
Some leagues may require wooden bats because of player safety issues. All 
bats used in ASA softball competition must have an ASA-approved stamp and 
be included in a list of approved bat models published by the ASA national 
office.[6] A fastpitch softball bat may be no more than 34 inches long, 
2 1⁄4 inches in diameter. Also, a "drop" of no more than 13 is allowed. 
The drop is calculated by taking the length of the bat in inches and subtracting 
the weight in ounces.[7] Female players tend to use specialized fastpitch 
bats, while male players typically prefer slowpitch bats. Gloves are worn 
by all members of the defensive team and are made in many styles and sizes. 
The gloves are made with leather or a sturdy fabric. The catcher and first 
baseman usually wear mitts which include additional padding and no fingers. 
Gloves are similar to baseball gloves, but softball allows larger sizes 
up to 14 inches from top to bottom. Fastpitch softball uniforms usually 
include a shirt, undershirt, properly fitted under shorts, baseball socks, 
cap, visor and shorts. Baseball caps and head bands are optional for women, 
baseball caps are mandatory for men. Most female fastpitch softball players 
wear "sliding shorts" which protect the back of thighs when sliding into 
bases. Some players may also wear shin guards to protect the area below 
the knee up to the ankle.[8] Male players wear the long "baseball style" 
pants. Fast pitch softball shoes may have cleats or spikes. Rounded metal 
or hard plastic spikes are not allowed due to the increased risk of injury 
to an opponent in a slide. Batting gloves can also be worn when playing 
fastpitch or slowpitch softball. Batting gloves are designed to improve 
a player's grip and to provide protection for batters when they are at 
the plate. Batting gloves also provide added protection for the hand in 
the fielding glove when fielding and catching balls. Batting gloves are 
designed to prevent a player's hands from breaking. Helmets are required 
in fast pitch softball. There are many different styles of batting helmet, 
but must have two ear flaps. Any helmet that has been damaged, altered 
or previously repaired is not permitted for use. The catcher must wear 
a protective helmet, a face mask and a chest protector.[9] Male catchers 
must wear a protective cup. Aside from the catcher, any other player on 
the fast pitch softball team may wear a protective mask or face guard. 
These masks are designed to prevent traumatic facial injuries.[10] Softball 
pitchers at any level require a level of accuracy with their pitches.[11] 
An accurate pitch is achieved through different techniques which help the 
pitcher to maintain a certain consistency of body weight and balance. The 
pitch starts with the grip and ends with a follow through after the ball 
is released from the hand of the pitcher. An accurate pitch requires skill 
in six areas: the grip, stance, windup, stride, release and follow through. 
A perfect grip depends on which pitch the pitcher is throwing. For a normal 
fastball, it is beneficial to hold the ball firmly with your fingertips, 
but not so that the ball is pushed deep into your palm of your hand. In 
fastpitch softball, there are several types of grips for various pitches. 
There is not one correct way to hold or throw a pitch, it all depends on 
the pitcher. Some grips are easier for individuals due to the size of their 
hand while others find certain grips more difficult. This is why younger 
pitchers who haven't developed into their normal hand size start with more 
basic grips such as the fastball. The main pitches involved in fastpitch 
softball are as follows: fastball, change-up, curveball, drop ball, and 
rise ball. Other pitches include both the drop curve, and well as the drop 
screw. The pitcher's stance is also important when pitching. In different 
types of competitions, different rules concerning the stance apply. In 
college, professional, and Olympic games, pitchers must place both feet 
on the rubber when starting the pitch. Other competitions require having 
only one foot on the rubber. The pitcher's feet are placed at a distance 
that is not larger than the width of the shoulders, with either one foot 
or both feet on the rubber. A common stance for pitchers is to have the 
ball of the foot on the same side as the throwing arm (also called the 
pivot foot) on the front edge of the rubber, and the toes of the alternate 
foot shoulder width apart and toward the middle or back side of the rubber. 
A stride is performed from the beginning stance by rocking back, shifting 
the weight back to gain momentum and then moving the weight forward onto 
the ball of the pivot foot. The pitcher then pushes off the rubber with 
the pivot foot, pivoting that foot in a 30 to 40 degree, clockwise angle 
as the opposite leg moves out into a stride. The stride leg must land along 
the "power line," which means that the pitcher’s body is in line with the 
plate, with the pitcher’s hips facing the third base line. The angle of 
a pitch can be altered in different ways through the stride. If the pitcher 
is aiming for the outside corner of the plate, the pitcher will pivot, 
stride with the opposite foot, and land slightly outside of the “power 
line”; if the inside corner is aimed, the pitcher will land slightly inside. 
If the movement is very subtle, the batter will probably not be able to 
notice the change of angle. In most leagues during the pitcher's delivery, 
the pivot foot must drag along the ground in order for the pitch to be 
legal. If the drag foot lifts off the ground, an illegal pitch will be 
called for crow hopping. In this case, the batter is awarded with one ball 
to the count, and all base runners advance to the next base.[12] In international 
play - and in most men's leagues - the pitcher is allowed to jump with 
the pivot foot. A crow hop here is considered legal. The windup is performed 
with the throwing arm and happens prior to the pitcher releasing the ball. 
Throughout the entire pitch, the upper body should remain upright, rather 
than bent over. The pitcher’s throwing arm begins at the hip. Some pitchers 
move the throwing arm back as they shift their weight back, but it is not 
necessary throw an effective pitch. From the hip, the throwing arm moves 
up in a circle, brushing the ear, and returning to the hip prior to the 
release. The pitcher’s arm should remain tight to the body to keep control 
of the pitch. This can be performed because the pitcher’s lower body is 
pivoting in a straight line. The release is one of the most important motions 
for the effectiveness of the pitch. The release technique consists of wrist-snapping 
and allowing the ball to roll off the fingertips when arm reaches the hip. 
If the snap also twists the wrist, the ball will move laterally or up and 
down, which can benefit the pitcher by confusing the batter.[13] The follow 
through is the last motion of a pitch. This is the point when the pitcher 
bends the throwing arm at the elbow, and the hand moves upward, finishing 
in front of the pitcher’s face. Windmill pitching consists of three phases. 
The first phase, or “wind up” involves initiation of the motion until the 
top of the back swing (TOB). The second phase lasts from the top of the 
back swing until the instant of stride foot contact (SFC). The third phase 
occurs between the SFC and the instant of ball release (REL).[14] Knowledge 
of the kinematic parameters of these phases is critical for physicians, 
physical therapists, and athletic trainers to devise better diagnostic 
and rehabilitative protocols that are specific to the athletes. A previous 
study by Alexander et al. demonstrated that the majority of kinematic parameters 
have low magnitudes and vary among pitchers during the windup phase.[15] 
In a follow-up study, Werner et al. examined the parameters of the second 
and third phases, which they termed the “delivery phase”. They found 7 
specific parameters of pitching mechanics that correlate to risk of shoulder 
injury: shoulder abduction, shoulder flexion, knee flexion angle at SFC, 
stride length, stride angle, and elbow and hip angles at REL. Monitoring 
these kinematics would aid in reducing shoulder stress. Mean shoulder abduction 
and shoulder flexion angles at SFC were 155° ±16° and 168° ±35°, respectively. 
As the stride foot contacted the ground, the knee demonstrated a mean value 
of 27°±9° of flexion. Stride length averaged 89% ±11% of body height. Stride 
position varied between subjects, with a mean value of –3 ±14 cm; this 
indicates that when the foot contacted the ground, on average it landed 
slightly to the first-base side of home plate for right-handed pitchers, 
and to the third-base side for left-handers. The elbow flexion angle was 
18° ±9° and the lower trunk (hip) angle moved toward a closed position 
of 52°±18° at REL. This indicated that greater degrees of shoulder abduction 
at SFC and greater stride angle decreased the magnitude of shoulder compression 
force. Conversely, longer stride, open REL hip position, and greater degrees 
of elbow flexion at REL and of shoulder and knee flexion at SFC all increase 
shoulder compression force.[14] Normative ranges for kinematic parameters 
have been established for an elite population of windmill pitchers. Specific 
pitching mechanic parameters correlate with clinically significant injury 
patterns. Interventions that take into account the aforementioned data 
could decrease shoulder forces, thus translating to lower rates of time-loss 
injury in this group of athletes.[14] The fastest pitch on record was thrown 
by Eddie Feigner of "The King and His Court" who was clocked at 104 mph.[3] 
Feigner was at his best in the 1950s, and it is doubtful if this figure 
is correct. More recently, measured with modern radar guns, the best women 
are clocked at up to 75 mph and the best men at 85 mph. The fastpitch swing 
can be broken down into 7 components: 1. Stance 2. Grip 3. Bat Position 
4. Shift of Weight 5. Hand Position 6. "Squishing the Bug" 7. Follow Through 
and Finish. There are many drills as well that can help aid in the advancing 
of one's mechanisms including hitting of a tee and soft toss drills. The 
swing must be very concise and compact since the ball is coming very fast 
and there is little time to react. Associations which support fastpitch 
softball include: Each association plays under its own official rules. 
US Softball was created in 1933 by the ASA. It is still owned and operated 
by the ASA, and includes the US Men’s, Women’s, Junior Boys’ and Junior 
Girls’ National Team. Before the 1996 Summer Olympics, the US Softball 
National Team Selection Committee was established to make the final cuts 
for the team that would represent the US at every international competition. 
The selected 1996 United States softball team won the olympic gold medal 
with a 3–0 victory over China in the 1996 games.[16] The United States 
women's national softball team won three consecutive gold medals at the 
1996, 2000, and 2004 Summer Olympic Games. In the 2008 olympic games, the 
gold medal was won by Japan after they defeated the United States. The 
