Stephen T. Badin High School, (commonly known as Badin High School) is 
a Catholic high school of the Archdiocese of Cincinnati school system, 
serving grades nine through twelve in Hamilton, Ohio. It is a comprehensive 
high school which admits students of all levels of ability. Curriculum 
is offered on four distinct levels. 96% of Badin graduates continue their 
education. The student-to-teacher ratio is 15:1. Badin High School is named 
after Father Stephen T. Badin, the first Catholic priest ordained in the 
United States. Badin High School first opened its doors the fall of 1966. 
Previously, two high schools served the area from the early 1900s until 
their closings in 1966. Hamilton Catholic High School for young men and 
Notre Dame High School for young women. The Sisters of Notre Dame de Namur, 
the Brothers of St. Mary, archdiocesan priests, other religious orders 
and committed lay persons laid the foundation of Badin High school at its 
current location near Potter's golf course on New London Road. Father Frank 
Miller (Purcell '42) organized the merger and became the first principal 
of the combined school. The school offers a variety of clubs and activities 
for students to enjoy. A few on the list are: Student Council, Pro-Life 
Club, Liturgical Music Group, Badin Studio (art club), Badin Rocks (band), 
Badin String Group, Drumline, Jazz Band, Culinary Club, Claybusters (Clay 
target shooting), archery, rowing, Fishing Club, Junior States of America, 
Junior Engineering Technical Society, foreign language clubs, service clubs, 
and more. The teams from Badin are known as the Rams. The boys compete 
in the Greater Catholic League and the girls compete in the Girls Greater 
Cincinnati League. The Rams have won a total of 7 combined Ohio state titles 
in boys and girls sports in divisions 2 and 3, and have won 3 individual 
state titles. Ohio High School Athletic Association Division II State Championships: 
Ohio High School Athletic Association Division III State Championships: 
Ohio High School Athletic Association Individual State Championships: [7] 
