Francis Thomas "Fay" Vincent, Jr. (born May 29, 1938) is a former entertainment 
lawyer and sports executive who served as the eighth Commissioner of Major 
League Baseball from September 13, 1989 to September 7, 1992. Vincent was 
born in Waterbury, Connecticut, the son of Alice (Lynch), a teacher, and 
Francis Thomas Vincent, a telephone company employee and sports official.[1] 
He is a graduate of The Hotchkiss School.[2] An exceptional athlete who 
showed talent in track and field and football, he attended Williams College 
on a full academic scholarship. However, a near-fatal accident there left 
him with a crushed spine and paralyzed legs. He had been locked inside 
his dorm room as a prank; climbing onto the roof to escape he slipped off 
a four-story ledge. Surgery and three months in traction followed.[2] He 
overcame an initial diagnosis he would never walk again, but his leg never 
fully recovered and he has since relied on a cane. After graduating from 
Williams (class of 1960) with honors he attended Yale Law School (class 
of 1963). He went on to become a partner in the Washington, D.C. law firm 
of Caplin & Drysdale. He also served as Associate Director of the Division 
of Corporation Finance of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 
Beginning in 1978 he became the chairman of Columbia Pictures, and vice 
chairman of Coca-Cola starting in March 1982. In April 1986 he was promoted 
to Executive Vice President in charge of the company's farflung entertainment 
activities. At the behest of his longtime friend, incoming Commissioner 
of Baseball Bart Giamatti, Vincent accepted the position of deputy commissioner.[3] 
After consulting with Giamatti's widow, Toni, he became the eighth commissioner 
of baseball following Giamatti's September 1, 1989 death. In his first 
year as commissioner, he presided over the 1989 World Series, which was 
interrupted by the Loma Prieta earthquake; the owners' lockout during Spring 
Training of the 1990 season; and the expulsion of New York Yankees owner 
George Steinbrenner from the game. In 1990, National League president Bill 
White was prepared to suspend umpire Joe West for slamming Philadelphia 
pitcher Dennis Cook to the field, but Vincent intervened and no discipline 
was imposed. On September 4, 1991 the Committee for Statistical Accuracy, 
appointed by Vincent, changed the definition of a no-hitter to require 
that a pitcher throw at least nine full innings and a complete game. Since 
New York Yankee Andy Hawkins (who never gave up a hit during a game against 
the Chicago White Sox on July 1, 1990, despite the White Sox winning the 
game 4-0) played for the visiting team, the White Sox never batted in the 
ninth inning and Hawkins lost the credit for a no-hitter. This same committee 
also ruled that Roger Maris is the one and only single season home run 
record holder, overturning the 1961 decision of former commissioner Ford 
Frick that Maris and Ruth's home run totals should be listed side-by-side 
for 154 and 162 game seasons (contrary to popular belief, Frick never mentioned 
using an asterisk). Also during his commissionership, Vincent made it known 
(e.g. while being interviewed by Pat O'Brien during CBS' coverage of Game 
4 of the 1991 World Series) that if he had the chance, he would get rid 
of the designated hitter rule. Vincent has also been connected with Pete 
Rose's lifetime banishment from baseball; however, Rose's banishment began 
while Giamatti was commissioner (although Vincent led the investigation 
and was involved in the negotiations). Vincent has publicly said he does 
not support Rose's reinstatement. In the 2004 made-for-television movie 
about the Rose affair entitled Hustle, Vincent was portrayed by actor Alan 
Jordan. On October 17, 1989, Vincent[4] sat in a field box behind the left 
dugout at San Francisco's Candlestick Park. At 5:04 p.m., just prior to 
Game 3 of the World Series between the San Francisco Giants and Oakland 
Athletics, the 6.9 Mw Loma Prieta earthquake hit with a maximum Mercalli 
intensity of IX (Violent). At approximately 5:35 p.m., after coming to 
the conclusion that the power couldn't be restored before sunset, Vincent 
ordered the game to be postponed. According to Vincent, he had already 
made the decision to postpone Game 3 without telling anybody first. As 
a result, the umpires filed a form of protest of Vincent's decision. However, 
the game had to be postponed due to trouble with gas lines as well as the 
power issue. The World Series ultimately resumed after a 10-day postponement 
(and some initial conflict between Vincent and San Francisco mayor Art 
Agnos, who felt that the World Series ought to have been delayed much longer) 
on October 27, 1989. While presenting the World Series Trophy to the Athletics, 
who wound up winning the World Series in a four-game sweep, Vincent summed 
up the 1989 World Series as a "Remarkable World Series in many respects." 
In February 1990, owners announced that spring training would not be starting 
as scheduled. This occurred after MLBPA Executive Director Donald Fehr 
became afraid that the owners would institute a salary cap. Fehr believed 
that a salary cap could possibly restrict the number of choices free agents 
could make and a pay-for-performance scale would eliminate multiyear contracts. 
The lockout, which was the seventh work stoppage in baseball since 1972, 
lasted 32 games and wiped out all of spring training. Vincent worked with 
both the owners and MLBPA, and on March 19, 1990, Vincent was able to announce 
a new Basic Agreement (which raised the minimum major league salary from 
$68,000 to $100,000 and established a six-man study committee on revenue 
sharing). As a consequence for the lockout, Opening Day for the 1990 season 
was moved back a week to April 9, and the season was extended by three 
days to accommodate the normal 162-game schedule. On July 30, 1990, Vincent 
banned New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner from baseball for life 
after Steinbrenner paid Howie Spira, a small-time gambler, $40,000 for 
"dirt" on his outfielder Dave Winfield after Winfield sued Steinbrenner 
for failing to pay his foundation the $300,000 guaranteed in his contract. 
Steinbrenner was eventually reinstated in 1993 (one year after Vincent 
left office). Per Fay Vincent's interview on WFAN (NY) on July 14, 2010 
(the day after Steinbrenner died), Vincent had wanted to suspend Steinbrenner 
for only two years. It was Steinbrenner who asked for a lifetime ban as 
he was tired of baseball and wanted to help run the US Olympic effort. 
Steinbrenner knew he could not run the Olympic effort if he was suspended, 
so he asked for a lifetime ban, which he received. Steinbrenner then applied 
for (and received) reinstatement after two years. On June 24, 1992, Vincent 
permanently suspended pitcher Steve Howe for repeated drug offenses. Vincent 
was incensed when upper Yankee management (Buck Showalter, Gene Michael, 
and Jack Lawn) agreed to testify on Howe's behalf, and threatened them 
with expulsion from the game: The three men were unaffected by Vincent's 
hyperbole, testified for Howe as promised, and remained active in baseball. 
Three months later, Vincent was removed from his job as commissioner. An 
arbitrator overturned Vincent's suspension of Howe on November 11, 1992. 
Fay Vincent on the effects of collusion:[3] In June 1991, Vincent declared 
that the American League would receive $42 million of the National League's 
$190 million in expansion revenue and that the AL would provide players 
in the National League expansion draft (involving the Colorado Rockies 
and Florida Marlins). In an attempt to win support in the American League 
and balance the vote, Vincent decreed that the AL owners were entitled 
to 22 percent of the $190 million take. This decision marked the first 
time in expansion history that leagues were required to share expansion 
revenue or provide players for another league's expansion draft. Vincent 
said the owners expanded to raise money to pay their collusion debt.[3] 
Just prior to leaving office, Vincent had plans to realign the National 
League. Vincent wanted the Chicago Cubs and St. Louis Cardinals to switch 
divisions with the Cincinnati Reds and Atlanta Braves. When Major League 
Baseball realigned in 1969, this geographical anomaly was created in order 
to give the Chicago and St. Louis franchises more games during television's 
prime time schedule. National League president Bill White warned Vincent 
that realigning without league approval would be in violation of the National 
League Constitution. Many thought this plan would be beneficial to the 
league as a whole, especially by building a regional rivalry between the 
new franchise in Miami and the Atlanta Braves. The Cubs, however, opposed 
the move, suggesting that fans in the Central Time Zone would be forced 
to watch more games originating on the West Coast with later broadcast 
times (had the realignment included the use of a balanced schedule, the 
Cubs would have actually played more games against teams outside their 
division). On July 17, 1992, the Chicago Cubs sued Vincent and asked the 
U.S. District Court in Chicago for a preliminary injunction to prevent 
implementation, which was granted two weeks later. After Vincent's attorneys 
appealed, oral arguments were scheduled for August 30 of that year. Ultimately, 
Vincent resigned before the litigation was scheduled to resume, so as a 
result, the Cubs dropped their suit. Although Vincent's vision never really 
came into fruition, Major League Baseball did in fact realign in 1994, 
albeit in the form of three divisions in each league, and the addition 
of an expanded playoff format. His relationship with baseball's owners 
was always tenuous at best; he resigned in 1992 after the owners gave him 
an 18–9 no confidence vote. The owners were still angry at Vincent over 
his intervention during the 1990 lockout. The owners were also disappointed 
by dwindling television ratings in light of a $1.2 billion, four-year deal 
with CBS (which ultimately cost the network approximately $500 million) 
beginning in 1990 (Vincent's first full season as commissioner) and upwardly 
spiraling salaries. (It is also important to note that CBS itself contributed 
to decreasing ratings thanks to the haphazard scheduling of Game of the 
Week broadcasts during the regular season to the point that fans grew tired 
of tuning into no baseball on summer Saturdays.) They also accused him 
of acting in a high-handed manner, especially in the Howe affair. The leaders 
in the movement to oust Vincent were members of what The Sporting News 
later dubbed The Great Lakes Gang:[5] In his farewell, Vincent said He 
was replaced by Milwaukee Brewers owner Bud Selig, whose family continued 
to maintain ownership over the Brewers. Fay Vincent was never able to complete 
the five-year term that he had inherited from Bart Giamatti. Vincent would 
later contend that Major League Baseball made a huge mistake by not appointing 
his deputy commissioner Steve Greenberg — the son of the Hall of Famer 
Hank Greenberg — as the commissioner.[citation needed] After stepping down 
from the commissioner's office, Vincent became a private investor and the 
president of the New England Collegiate Baseball League. Vincent would 
serve as the NECBL’s president from 1998 to 2003. In 2001, when baseball 
owners voted to contract two clubs, Vincent criticized them for not consulting 
the players' union. In 2002, Vincent wrote his autobiography entitled The 
Last Commissioner: A Baseball Valentine.[6] In 2005, during an interview 
with Fox Sports Radio, Vincent shared his thoughts on the controversy surrounding 
Texas Rangers pitcher Kenny Rogers, who received a 20-game suspension for 
a tirade directed at two TV cameramen. Vincent believed that Rogers, who 
had a record of 9–4 with 2.45 ERA at the time of the incident, shouldn't 
have been allowed to play in the All-Star Game in Detroit. Vincent said 
Fay Vincent has also been critical of Major League Baseball's handling 
of the dreaded strike in 1994. Some observers feel that Vincent's absence 
(or any other permanent commissioner at the time) could have been a decisive 
turn in finding a compromise agreement. While being interviewed for ESPN 
Classic's SportsCentury (about the year in sports in 1994), Vincent believed 
that the strike turned out to be a lost cause since the end result was 
federal judge Sonia Sotomayor ruling that work had to resume under the 
previous collective bargaining agreement. Vincent has hinted that he believes 
that the strike was instigated by the owners (including his successor Bud 
Selig) who were frustrated by their diminishing power over the MLBPA. Vincent 
strongly believes that the cancellation of the World Series in 1994 (the 
first time that there wasn't a World Series played in 90 years) was a major 
mistake. In March 2006, Vincent called on baseball to investigate (similar 
to the Dowd Report surrounding Pete Rose) possible steroids use by Barry 
Bonds, saying the cloud hanging over his pursuit of the home run record 
is a crisis akin to the Black Sox scandal from 1919. Vincent wrote in the 
April 24, 2006 issue of Sports Illustrated, that with most of Bonds' official 
troubles being off the field, and with the strength of the players' union, 
there was little Bud Selig could do beyond appointing an investigating 
committee. Vincent said that Selig is largely "an observer of a forum beyond 
his reach." Fay Vincent also believes that the only franchises in Major 
League Baseball to have a chance to win are the ones that have their own 
regional sports networks. Vincent has credited Atlanta Braves owner Ted 
Turner as one of the first to capitalize on this. On October 18, 2007, 
Vincent appeared with sportscaster Bob Costas at Williams College for "A 
Conversation About Sports", moderated by Will Dudley, Associate Professor 
of Philosophy. On May 28, 1992, Vincent was awarded an honorary doctoral 
degree at Central Connecticut State University. He also gave the 1992 Vance 
Distinguished Lecture at the university. On May 18, 2008, Fairfield University 
conferred an honorary Doctor of Laws degree on Mr. Vincent where he served 
on the Board of Trustees from 1991 to 2002, and where he created the need-based 
Alice Lynch Vincent Scholarship Fund in memory of his mother in December 
