FC Buffalo is an American soccer team based in Buffalo, New York, United 
States. Founded in 2009, the team plays in the National Premier Soccer 
League (NPSL), a national amateur league at the fourth tier of the American 
Soccer Pyramid, in the Midwest Division. The team plays its home games 
at All-High Stadium. The team's colors are blue, gold and white. FC Buffalo 
joined the NPSL as an expansion franchise in 2009 and took part in its 
first competitive season in 2010. While not a continuation of either franchise, 
FC Buffalo follows in the footsteps of two other recent Buffalo-based teams 
that competed in the NPSL: Queen City FC and Buffalo City FC. The team 
is owned by a group of five Buffalonians: Joshua Batten, Scott Frauenhofer, 
Donny Kutzbach, Nick Mendola and Ray Siminski. The club had a contest for 
fans to submit a nickname and after much debate and thousands of votes 
cast, "Blitzers" was chosen. The vote was aided by Buffalo native and CNN 
broadcaster Wolf Blitzer airing an interview with owners Nick Mendola and 
Scott Frauenhofer discussing the contest. ESPN correspondent Vincent Thomas 
commented: "Although the 'Blitzers' nickname has ended up being a pretty 
deft marketing move, it's more legit than a ploy. The term blitz comes 
from the German word for lightning, which is all over the team's logo and 
the city's municipal flag. And, of course, there's a mutual fondness between 
Blitzer and his hometown."[1] The Blitzers finished their opening campaign 
with six wins, two draws and four losses. They were the only team to defeat 
the Keystone Conference champion FC Sonic. On Dec 8, 2010, the Blitzers 
announced they had parted ways with head coach Jim Hesch. Ten days later, 
they announced via their web site that they had inked Daniel Krzyzanowicz 
to coach the club into the future. Krzyzanowicz helmed a Medaille College 
program that has made the NCAA tournament five times and reached the Sweet 
Sixteen in 2010. The 2011 season was up-and-down, with the Blitzers winning 
five, drawing one and losing six. During the season the Blitzers took on 
the Bedlington Terriers F.C. in a friendly match at All High Stadium in 
the inaugural Bedlington Cup. Due to the connection of Robert E. Rich, 
Jr. to Buffalo, NY and Bedlington, England. The friendly was arranged and 
the Terriers traveled to Buffalo for the match. The Blitzers won 5–1 in 
front of a sell out crowd.[2] The match was filmed and later made into 
a BBC documentary called Mr Rich and The Terriers[3] The team's mascot 
Wolf Blitzer was unveiled at the Winter Wolves fund raiser. 2012 Season 
tickets were sold at the event. The unique feature of the 2012 season ticket 
is that it consists of a special season ticket holder's scarf that will 
function as admission to the season's home matches.[4][5] FC Buffalo saw 
its first player drafted into Major League Soccer on January 17, 2012 when 
midfielder Krystian Witkowski was claimed in the second round of the supplemental 
draft by the Philadelphia Union.[6] He was waived by the team later in 
the season. On November 20, 2012, FC Buffalo signed its third head coach, 
Brendan Murphy. The Buffalo native was a national champion as a player 
at St. Lawrence University and was an invaluable asset to three collegiate 
programs as an assistant coach.[7] The team saw a player drafted into Major 
League Soccer for the second-consecutive year, as second-leading scorer 
Mike Reidy was selected 71st overall in the 2013 MLS Supplemental Draft 
by Sporting KC. The team take inspiration for their colors, royal blue 
and yellow gold, from the classic Buffalo Sabres uniforms. The badge features 
a crest with a soccer ball inside a circle of electric flashes under the 
team name and founding year. The logo is reminiscent of the municipal flag 
of Buffalo, NY. In 2015, the team returned to a Nike manufactured shirt 
and introduced three sets of uniforms. One all blue, one all yellow, and 
one all white. The kits can be mixed and matched on game day to create 
multiple unique and colorful looks. The front jersey sponsor is Rich Products, 
a multinational food production corporation headquartered in Buffalo, New 
York. Rich's also owns and sponsors the local Triple-A International League 
baseball team, the Buffalo Bisons. Més Que, Buffalo's premier downtown 
soccer bar, and Batavia Downs Gaming & Casino are the two other shirt sponsors. 
As of 21 July 2016 [1] Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under 
FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality. 
Last updated: June 12, 2016 Source: FC Buffalo In inaugural competition, 
defeated Bedlington Terriers F.C. of England's Northern League, 5 – 1 [8] 
