The Federal Hockey League (FHL) is a professional ice hockey league with 
teams in the Midwestern and Northeastern United States as well as one team 
in Ontario.[1] The FHL began operations in November 2010. Don Kirnan is 
the league's Commissioner.[1] In its inaugural season, the league had a 
salary cap of $5,050 per week. The roster was limited to 20 players for 
the first six games and 17 thereafter.[2] A handful of National Hockey 
League players and draft picks joined the ranks, most notably Pierre Dagenais 
and Billy Tibbetts. Dagenais, who played 142 games New Jersey Devils, Montreal 
Canadiens and Florida Panthers, played two seasons for the Akwesasne Warriors 
amassing 107 goals and 197 points in 68 regular season games, and helped 
Akwesasne win the first Commissioner's Cup.[3] Tibbetts, who played with 
the role of an enforcer in his brief 82 game NHL career, mostly with the 
Pittsburgh Penguins, played 15 games for the Cape Cod Bluefins in 2011-12, 
scoring 10 goals, 40 points, and 109 PIM in only 15 games.[4] During the 
2010–11 season, the Broome County Barons relocated to Cape Cod due to lack 
of fan support,[5][6] and Rome Frenzy suspended operations mid-season.[7] 
Akwesasne won the first Commissioner's Cup title with a 3-1 series win 
over the New York Aviators.[8] In February 2011, the FHL announced it would 
add new teams in Morrisville, Vermont and Danville, Illinois, later named 
the Green Mountain Rock Crushers and the Danville Dashers, respectively. 
In May, the FHL announced an expansion team in Wayne, New Jersey, called 
the New Jersey Outlaws. By June, the FHL had been unable to establish a 
team in Vermont and included the Niagara Falls Nationals with the Dashers 
and Outlaws in an expansion draft. But by July 2011, the Nationals were 
gone and the Green Mountain Rock Crushers (which later changed its name 
to the Vermont Wild in September) were re-added to the schedule. In December 
2011 the FHL announced that the Vermont Wild had folded and a new team, 
the Delaware Federals, would replace them on the schedule as a road-only 
team; the Federals played their first game on December 16, 2011 against 
Cape Cod.[9] The New Jersey Outlaws won the FHL title in their only season 
before moving to Williamsport, Pennsylvania, by sweeping the Danbury Whalers 
in three games.[8] In May 2012 it was announced that the Brooklyn Aviators 
were ceasing operations and that an expansion team was being added in Dayton, 
Ohio, the Dayton Demonz (originally announced as the Dayton Devils) at 
the Hara Arena. The Dayton expansion draft and the Brooklyn player dispersal 
draft were both held on June 15.[10] In July it was announced that the 
defending champion New Jersey Outlaws were relocating to Williamsport, 
PA.[11] Rather than playing in a traditional ice arena, they played outside 
on an ice rink at Bowman Field, home to the minor league baseball team 
the Williamsport Crosscutters.[12] This venture was unsuccessful as the 
team folded on January 21, 2013, only to be resurrected by the league as 
the Pennsylvania Blues, a travel team that played four road games to fill 
in other teams' home schedules for the remainder of the season. On December 
15, 2012, control of the Cape Cod Bluefins was transferred to the league 
and renamed the New York Bluefins with the intent to play home games in 
Syracuse, New York; however the league only used them as a travel team 
for 13 games and the Bluefins folded at the end of the season. On January 
27, 2013, the only game in FHL history to be completed with no penalties 
was played between the New York Bluefins and the Danville Dashers at Palmer 
Arena in Danville, Illinois, a 7-4 Danville win officiated by referee Matt 
Spaeth.[13] On March 22, 2013, the Danbury Whalers swept the Dayton Demonz 
to win the Commissioner's Cup. The attendance at the final game was 3,116, 
the largest single-game attendance in the history of the league.[citation 
needed] The FHL played with only 4 teams for the season, and in a bid for 
expansion played neutral site games in Winston-Salem, NC, and Connellsville, 
PA. Dayton Demonz forward Ahmed Mahfouz led the league in scoring and was 
the league's Most Valuable Player. The Danville Dashers twice were the 
center of national sports attention, first in a brawl during a game against 
the Watertown Privateers in which a collision between Danville goalie Nick 
Niedert and Watertown enforcer Jeff Dill took place, sparking a brawl, 
and soon spilled between benches, and punches were briefly thrown between 
Danville coach Mike Kellermeyer and Privateers coach Brad Zangs. Officials 
managed to get the situation under control thanks to the arrival of local 
police. The next meeting between the two teams resulted in a sellout at 
Watertown Municipal Arena, but there were no further incidents.[14] The 
Dayton Demonz won the first series over the Watertown Privateers, two games 
to one, to play top seeded Danbury in the finals. Danbury would win the 
first two games of the finals, game one in OT from a goal by Igor Karlov. 
Back in Dayton for Game 3 the Demonz sported new jerseys. Mike Brown, a 
Boston Bruins draft pick from the early 2000s, was injured and Kevin Hoy 
took over in net for Danbury. Dayton captain Brian Marks scored in overtime 
to force a game 4, which Dayton also won. Dayton won game 5 and the Commissioner's 
Cup in a 9-2 victory. Jeff Rose was awarded the Playoff MVP award. In the 
final game of the regular season between Danville and Dayton, two friends 
and former teammates decided to stage a fight in the 3rd period. With a 
4-0 lead and less than 10 minutes to go, Jesse Felten and Matt Puntureri 
squared off at center ice, and as punches would have been thrown, both 
players hugged it out instead. Next, Puntureri pulled a can of beer from 
his pads, opened it, and in each other's embrace, the two skated around 
center ice toasting the crowd to mixed reactions. The league announced 
that Felten would be suspended for the remainder of the season and the 
playoffs. No immediate discipline for Puntureri was announced, since it 
was Danville's last game of the season. Puntureri later stated that he 
believed he would be banned for life.[15] Neither Felten nor Puntureri 
played professional hockey in the 2015 season.[16] The FHL awarded a new 
franchise to play in Southwest Pennsylvania to begin play in the 2014-15 
season, named the Southwest Pennsylvania Magic. The Magic were to play 
at the Rostraver Ice Garden in Belle Vernon, PA. This brought the league 
to five teams and mark the FHL's return to Pennsylvania. In an interview, 
commissioner Don Kirnan stated he hoped to see as many as 7-8 teams in 
the FHL by the next season.[17] However, after playing one game in which 
they lost 10-2 to the Berkshire Battalion, the Magic's membership in the 
league was revoked due to financial problems.[18] They were replaced, under 
new ownership, by the Steel City Warriors, again located in Belle Vernon.[19] 
On July 14, 2014, the FHL announced another new franchise to begin play 
in Berlin, New Hampshire, to be called the Berlin River Drivers.[20] However, 
on September 8, 2014, the league announced that the league would expand 
instead into North Adams, Massachusetts, with the Berkshire Battalion, 
citing the market to be a better fit.[21] During the previous season, a 
group of local investors worked to purchase the Watertown Privateers, owned 
by Don Kirnan. On May 14, 2014, news circulated that the owners group, 
named Top Shelf Hockey, LLC and led by local businessman Stanley Tibbles, 
had acquired Kirnan's franchise rights and started a new team, eventually 
named the Watertown Wolves.[22] On October 30, 2014, it was announced that 
a neutral site game would take place on January 31, 2015, in Port Huron, 
Michigan at McMorran Place, with an eye towards future expansion into Port 
Huron.[23] The Danville Dashers defeated the Danbury Whalers 4 to 1 in 
the Port Huron game. The attendance at the game was 1,709.[24] The Watertown 
Wolves captured first place by the end of regular season and were followed 
by the Dayton Demonz who finished in second place. The Danville Dashers 
finished in third followed by the Danbury Whalers who finished in fourth. 
The Wolves won the FHL Championship in the playoffs over the Dashers in 
a five-game series.[25] On April 2, 2015, the FHL announced an expansion 
team, the Port Huron Prowlers, to begin play in the 2015–16 season.[26] 
On April 3, 2015, the Danbury Ice Arena announced that it did not want 
to renew its contract with the Danbury Whalers and gave them a notice to 
evict by April 17, leaving the last remaining team from the inaugural FHL 
season homeless.[27] On April 17, 2015, the Steel City Warriors announced 
that it had suspended operations, stating that the team was unable to find 
a suitable home arena, but had hopes to return for the 2016–17 season.[28] 
Also in April 2015, the FHL lost a lawsuit in which the league was ordered 
to pay former player Kyler Moje a sum of $800,000, after Moje became legally 
blind due to an injury incurred during a game on February 10, 2012. The 
FHL would appeal the judgment, citing that their lawyer never properly 
filed their legal response, but lost the appeal leading to speculation 
that the current league would have to fold in order to avoid the payment.[29][30] 
On May 20, 2015, the Berlin River Drivers announced their resurrection 
as the FHL's 7th team, to play at Notre Dame Arena in Berlin, New Hampshire. 
A year prior, the River Drivers were slated to join the FHL in 2014–15 
before the league reassessed their options and expanded into North Adams, 
MA instead.[31] On June 3, 2015, due the eviction of the Danbury Whalers, 
the Federal Hockey League announced a new team based in Brewster, New York, 
to be called the Stateline Whalers, and would play at the Brewster Ice 
Arena under former the Danbury Whalers CEO and managing partner Herm Sorcher.[32][33] 
The Stateline Whalers were announced as being owned by Barry Soskin, who 
also owns the Port Huron and Danville teams and formerly owned the Dayton 
Demonz. The Danbury Whalers were officially considered to be on hiatus 
for the season by the FHL, but gave up their naming and territorial rights 
to Brewster.[34] On June 22, 2015, the Watertown Wolves announced that 
they would suspend operations for the 2015–16 season due to their arena 
being renovated and an inability to find a temporary arena to use in Northern 
New York.[35] The Wolves plan to resume operations for the 2016–17 season, 
after their arena renovations are completed.[36] On June 26, 2015, the 
owner of the Berkshire Battalion, Williams Dadds, announced that he intends 
to relocate the team from North Adams, Massachusetts, before the 2015–16 
season after lease negotiations for the ice rink fell through. The city 
administration asked the team to only play a maximum of three Friday night 
games next season and repay all current debts prior to any lease being 
signed by the city but Dadds decided that the demands were unreasonable.[37] 
On June 27, it was reported that the FHL had approved of a new team Danbury, 
Connecticut, to replace the now departed Whalers.[38] Local businessmen, 
Bruce Bennett and Edward Crowe were announced as the ownership group. Bennett 
would announce the new team as the Danbury Titans and had signed a six-year 
lease to play at the Danbury Ice Arena.[39] On July 15, during the team's 
inaugural booster club meeting, Danbury Titans ownership confirmed that 
the league had re-organized and they will own the new Brewster team (formerly 
announced as the Stateline Whalers); Barry Soskin will continue to own 
the Danville Dashers and Port Huron Prowlers, but no longer be involved 
in Brewster. On July 18, Bennett announced the team would be called the 
Brewster Bulldogs and that neither of his teams would be connected to the 
former Whalers. On July 15, the Battalion announced via their Facebook 
page that the team was moving to Dayton, Ohio, to replace the Dayton Demonz. 
On July 16, the Port Huron Prowlers announced that the protected player 
list from the Demonz had been transferred to their team and officially 
announcing the end of the Demonz. In the same press release, the Prowlers 
also confirmed that Dadds would be relocating the Battalion to Dayton and 
play in Hara Arena.[40] On July 25, Dadds announced his Dayton team would 
be called the Dayton Demolition.[41] On December 23, the Dayton Demolition 
announced that it had postponed its December 26 game against Danbury due 
to "scheduling issues" with Hara Arena. On December 28, the Demolition 
then announced that its new home arena would be South Metro Sports, a recreation 
center with a seating capacity of approximately 200, in nearby Centerville, 
Ohio.[42] After one home game at South Metro, the Demolition returned to 
Hara Arena. On January 17, the FHL removed Dadds as owner[43] and on January 
19, Joe Pace, Sr., the former coach of the Danville Dashers, was announced 
as the head of the new ownership group for the Demolition.[44] At the conclusion 
of the regular season, Danbury, Danville, Dayton, and Port Huron qualified 
for the playoffs. Port Huron would sweep the regular season champion Danbury 
Titans for the Commissioner's Cup. The Watertown Wolves completed renovations 
to their ice rink and signed a new one-year lease agreement with the city 
of Watertown in order to return after one season off.[45] In addition, 
the league expanded to St. Clair Shores, Michigan (Metro Detroit) with 
the new St. Clair Shores Fighting Saints, playing out of the St. Clair 
Shores Civic Arena.[46][47] On July 13, 2016, the "Dayton Pro Hockey" team, 
formerly known as the Dayton Demolition before removing references of the 
Demolition name in March 2016, announced it would be going dormant for 
the 2016–17 season. Owner Joe Pace, Sr. claimed that Hara Arena was unable 
to sign leases to tenants and he did not believe he could put together 
a team without a proper lead up time and secured arena. He also stated 
he would look to keep the team in Dayton in 2017 even if Hara Arena is 
still not available.[48] Hara Arena would end up closing permanently in 
August 2016. In June 2016, Brewster Bulldogs owner, Bruce Bennett mentioned 
to the The News-Times that he would solely focus on his Danbury Titans 
team and would no longer be involved with the Bulldogs.[49] Without finding 
new ownership, Bennett decided to suspend Bulldogs operations on July 14, 
2016.[50] On September 14, the city of Cornwall, Ontario, approved a team 
called the Cornwall Nationals to begin play for the 2016–17 season out 
of the Ed Lumley Arena.[51] On September 16, the FHL approved of the addition 
to the league for the upcoming season.[52] The new team replaces the recently 
folded Cornwall River Kings and is led by Mitch Gagne and Rodney Rivette. 
The league has seven teams based in Connecticut, Illinois, Michigan, New 
Hampshire, New York, and Ontario.[53] An expansion team, the Carolina Thunderbirds, 
has been approved for the 2017–18 season called based out of Winston-Salem, 
North Carolina. The FHL has announced they will play out of the LJVM Coliseum 
Annex at the Winston-Salem Fairgrounds.[54] Season year includes the off 
season and playing season until the championship game. * - Indicates event 
took place mid-season ‡ - Indicates event occurred prior to the team ever 
