The Federal League of Base Ball Clubs, known simply as the Federal League, 
was an American professional baseball league that played its first season 
in 1913 and operated as a "third major league", in competition with the 
established National and American Leagues, from 1914 to 1915. The Federal 
League came together in early 1913 through the work of John T. Powers, 
and immediately challenged the operations of organized baseball. Playing 
in what detractors called the "outlaw" league allowed players to avoid 
the restrictions of the organized leagues' reserve clause. The competition 
of another, better paying league caused players' salaries to skyrocket, 
demonstrating the bargaining potential of free agency for the first time. 
Interference by the National and American Leagues in their operations caused 
the Federal League to fold after the 1915 season. This resulted in a landmark 
federal lawsuit, Federal Baseball Club v. National League, in which the 
U.S. Supreme Court ultimately ruled that the Sherman Antitrust Act did 
not apply to Major League Baseball.[1] The Federal League left its mark 
on baseball history in the field now known as Wrigley Field, which was 
originally built for the Chicago Whales Federal League team. The league 
itself and many sports writers considered it a major league during its 
existence; organized baseball recognized its major league status in 1968. 
It would be the last independent major league outside the established structure 
of professional baseball to make it to the playing field, and would be 
the last serious attempt to create a third major league until the abortive 
Continental League of 1960. In 1912, baseball promoter John T. Powers formed 
an independent professional league known as the Columbian League. However, 
the withdrawal of one of the organization's primary investors caused the 
league to fail before ever playing a game. Undaunted, Powers tried again 
the following year, creating a new league with teams in Chicago, Cleveland, 
Pittsburgh, Indianapolis, St. Louis, and Covington, Kentucky. He named 
the organization the Federal League, and served as its first president.[2] 
Because it did not abide by the National Agreement on player payment in 
place in organized baseball, the Federal League was called an "outlaw league" 
by its competitors. The Federal League's outlaw status allowed it to recruit 
players from established clubs, and it attracted many current and former 
players from the major as well as minor leagues. In its first season Powers 
initially served as president, but he was soon replaced by James A. Gilmore, 
under whose leadership the league declared itself a major league for the 
1914 season. Other financers of the League included oil baron Harry F. 
Sinclair, ice magnate Phil Ball, and George S. Ward of the Ward Baking 
Company.[3] As a major circuit, the Federal League consisted of eight teams 
each season. Four of the teams were placed in established Big League cities 
(Chicago, St. Louis, Pittsburgh and Brooklyn). The other four teams were 
placed in more marginal areas (Baltimore, Buffalo, Indianapolis and Kansas 
City). In the first year, 1914, some of the teams had official nicknames 
and some did not, but either way, sportswriters were inclined to invent 
their own nicknames: "ChiFeds", "BrookFeds", etc. By the second season, 
most of the teams had "official" nicknames, although many writers still 
called many of the teams "-Feds". In order for the Federal League to succeed, 
it needed Big League players. Walter Johnson signed a three-year contract 
with the Chicago team, but the Senators' Clark Griffith went personally 
to Johnson's home in Kansas and made a successful counter-offer.[4] Major 
League players that jumped to the Federal League included Bill McKechnie, 
Claude Hendrix, Jack Quinn, Russell Ford, Tom Seaton, Doc Crandall, Al 
Bridwell, Hy Myers, and Hal Chase. The Federal League also recruited Big 
League names to manage the new teams. Joe Tinker managed the Chicago team, 
Mordecai Brown managed the St. Louis team and Bill Bradley managed the 
Brooklyn team. The league had close pennant races both years. In 1914, 
Indianapolis beat out Chicago by 1½ games. 1915 witnessed the tightest 
pennant race in Major League history, as five teams fought into the final 
week of the season. The eventual winner (Chicago) finished 0 (zero) games 
and .001 percentage point ahead of second place, and a half-game and .004 
in front of the third-place finisher. During the 1914-15 offseason, Federal 
League owners brought an antitrust lawsuit against the American and National 
Leagues. The lawsuit ended up in the court of Federal Judge (and future 
Commissioner of Baseball) Kenesaw Mountain Landis, who allowed the case 
to languish while he urged both sides to negotiate. Swift action might 
have made a difference, but without the lawsuit going forward, the Federals 
found themselves in deepening financial straits. After the 1915 season 
the owners of the American and National Leagues bought out half of the 
owners (Pittsburgh, Newark, Buffalo, and Brooklyn) of the Federal League 
teams. Two Federal League owners were allowed to buy struggling franchises 
in the established leagues: Phil Ball, owner of the St. Louis Terriers, 
was allowed to buy the St. Louis Browns of the AL, and Charles Weeghman, 
owner of the Chicago Whales, bought the Chicago Cubs. Both owners merged 
their teams into the established ones. The Kansas City franchise had been 
declared bankrupt and taken over by the league office after the close of 
the regular season, and the Baltimore owners rejected the offer made to 
them. They had sought to buy and move an existing franchise to their city, 
but were rebuffed, and sued unsuccessfully. One of baseball's most famous 
ballparks was originally built for a Federal League team: Wrigley Field, 
the home of the Chicago Cubs, began its long life as Weeghman Park, the 
home of the Chicago Whales. Marc Okkonen, in his book on the Federal League, 
referred to Wrigley as a "silent monument" to the failed Federal League 
experiment. Otherwise, few visible remnants were left by the short-lived 
Federal League. The Baltimore entry sold their facility to the Baltimore 
Orioles of the International League, who renamed it Oriole Park and played 
there for nearly 30 years before it was destroyed by fire. The Newark ballpark 
was also used for minor league ball for a short time. Washington Park III 
in Brooklyn, completed after the 1915 season was underway, looked a lot 
like Chicago's Weeghman Park. It was used for various sports venues until 
the end of 1917 and then for storage until Brooklyn Edison Electric bought 
the property in 1925 and shortly thereafter tore it down. The right field 
wall still stands.[5] The other Federal League ballparks were demolished 
quickly, including the home of the Pittsburgh Rebels, Exposition Park, 
which had been the home of the Pittsburgh Pirates of the National League 
until they moved into Forbes Field in 1909.[6] The other "silent monument" 
to the Federal League is a famous legal decision. In 1922, the Supreme 
Court ruled in Federal Baseball Club v. National League (brought by the 
Terrapins, one of the teams which had not been bought out), that Major 
League Baseball and its constituent leagues were primarily entertainment, 
not conventional interstate commerce, and thus were exempt from the Sherman 
Antitrust Act.[1] Though significantly weakened in the 1970s, this exemption 
remains intact over 80 years later; however it has been eroded by subsequent 
court rulings and legislation regarding issues specific to Major League 
Baseball. Of the locations of teams in the Federal League, five currently 
have major league teams. Those are Baltimore, Chicago, Kansas City, Pittsburgh 
and St. Louis. Brooklyn has a New York–Penn League team, known as the Brooklyn 
Cyclones. (The major league Brooklyn Dodgers moved to Los Angeles in 1958, 
although the New York Mets have been located in the adjacent borough of 
Queens since 1964.) Buffalo and Indianapolis have International League 
teams, the Buffalo Bisons and Indianapolis Indians, respectively. Newark 
had a team, the Bears, in the independent Can-Am League, which folded after 
the 2012 season. There is at least one achievement of note that happened 
in Federal League play. Eddie Plank, pitching for the St. Louis Terriers, 
won his milestone 300th game on September 14, 1915 at St. Louis' Handlan's 
Park, becoming the first 300-game winning left-hander in the history of 
major league baseball and one of only five as of 2008. However, that milestone 
was not acknowledged by Major League Baseball until 1968. The Federal League 
was the last serious attempt at creating a "Third Major League" outside 
the established structure of professional baseball in the U.S. There was 
one further attempt at creating a third league – the Continental League 
in 1959 – but its founders had hoped to find their place within the purview 
of organized baseball. The Continental League disbanded in 1960 without 
ever playing a game, making the Federal League the last such league to 
ever take to the field. Players in the Baseball Hall of Fame who played 
