Federal Baseball Club v. National League, 259 U.S. 200 (1922), is a case 
in which the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the Sherman Antitrust Act did 
not apply to Major League Baseball. After the Federal League folded in 
1915, most of the Federal League owners had been bought out by owners in 
the other major Leagues, or had been compensated in other ways (for example, 
the owner of the St. Louis Federal League team had been permitted to buy 
the St. Louis Browns). The owner of the Baltimore Terrapins had not, and 
sued the National League, the American League and other defendants, including 
several Federal League officials for conspiring to monopolize baseball 
by destroying the Federal League. At trial, the defendants were found jointly 
liable, and damages of $80,000 assessed, which was tripled to $240,000 
($19.6 million as of 2015[1]), under the provisions of the Clayton Antitrust 
Act. On appeal, the Court of Appeals reversed the trial verdict, and held 
that baseball was not subject to the Sherman Act, and the case was duly 
appealed to the Supreme Court. In a unanimous decision written by Justice 
Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr., the Court affirmed the Court of Appeals, holding 
that "the business is giving exhibitions of base ball, which are purely 
state affairs"; that is, that baseball was not interstate commerce for 
the purposes of the Sherman Act. Justice Holmes' decision was as follows: 
The plaintiff is a baseball club incorporated in Maryland, and, with seven 
other corporations, was a member of the Federal League of Professional 
Base Ball Players, a corporation under the laws of Indiana, that attempted 
to compete with the combined defendants. It alleges that the defendants 
destroyed the Federal League by buying up some of the constituent clubs 
and in one way or another inducing all those clubs except the plaintiff 
to leave their League, and that the three persons connected with the Federal 
League and named as defendants, one of them being the President of the 
League, took part in the conspiracy. Great damage to the plaintiff is alleged. 
The plaintiff obtained a verdict for $80,000 in the Supreme Court, and 
a judgment for treble the amount was entered, but the Court of Appeals, 
after an elaborate discussion, held that the defendants were not within 
the Sherman Act. The appellee, the plaintiff, elected to stand on the record 
in order to bring the case to this Court at once, and thereupon judgment 
was ordered for the defendants. National League of Professional Baseball 
Clubs v. Federal Baseball Club of Baltimore, 50 App.D.C. 165, 269 F. 681, 
68. It is not argued that the plaintiff waived any rights by its course. 
Thomsen v. Cayser, 243 U. S. 66. The decision of the Court of Appeals went 
to the root of the case, and, if correct, makes it unnecessary to consider 
other serious difficulties in the way of the plaintiff's recovery. A summary 
statement of the nature of the business involved will be enough to present 
the point. The clubs composing the Leagues are in different cities and 
for the most part in different states. The end of the elaborate organizations 
and sub-organizations that are described in the pleadings and evidence 
is that these clubs shall play against one another in public exhibitions 
for money, one or the other club crossing a state line in order to make 
the meeting possible. When, as the result of these contests, one club has 
won the pennant of its league and another club has won the pennant of the 
other league, there is a final competition for the world's championship 
between these two. Of course, the scheme requires constantly repeated traveling 
on the part of the clubs, which is provided for, controlled, and disciplined 
by the organizations, and this, it is said, means commerce among the states. 
But we are of opinion that the Court of Appeals was right. The business 
is giving exhibitions of baseball, which are purely state affairs. It is 
true that, in order to attain for these exhibitions the great popularity 
that they have achieved, competitions must be arranged between clubs from 
different cities and states. But the fact that, in order to give the exhibitions, 
the Leagues must induce free persons to cross state lines and must arrange 
and pay for their doing so is not enough to change the character of the 
business. According to the distinction insisted upon in Hooper v. California, 
155 U. S. 648, 155 U. S. 655, the transport is a mere incident, not the 
essential thing. That to which it is incident, the exhibition, although 
made for money, would not be called trade of commerce in the commonly accepted 
use of those words. As it is put by defendant, personal effort not related 
to production is not a subject of commerce. That which in its consummation 
is not commerce does not become commerce among the states because the transportation 
that we have mentioned takes place. To repeat the illustrations given by 
the court below, a firm of lawyers sending out a member to argue a case, 
or the Chautauqua lecture bureau sending out lecturers, does not engage 
in such commerce because the lawyer or lecturer goes to another state. 
If we are right, the plaintiff's business is to be described in the same 
way, and the restrictions by contract that prevented the plaintiff from 
getting players to break their bargains and the other conduct charged against 
the defendants were not an interference with commerce among the states. 
The decision was reaffirmed in Toolson v. New York Yankees, 7 to 2,[2] 
