Fenway Sports Group, LLC (FSG), is an American sports investment company. 
It is the parent company of Major League Baseball's Boston Red Sox and 
Premier League football club Liverpool F.C. FSG was founded in 2001 as 
New England Sports Ventures (NESV) when John W. Henry joined forces with 
Tom Werner, Les Otten, The New York Times Company, and other investors 
to successfully bid for the Red Sox. NESV formally announced its name change 
to Fenway Sports Group in March 2011.[1] In addition to owning the Red 
Sox and Liverpool F.C., the Boston-based limited liability company also 
owns the home stadiums for both teams (Fenway Park and Anfield) and Fenway 
Sports Management (which in turn owns the Salem Red Sox of the Class A 
Carolina League, a minor league baseball franchise), plus 80% of the New 
England Sports Network (NESN) and 50% of Roush Fenway Racing, with cars 
entered (current as of 2015 season) in the NASCAR Sprint Cup, NASCAR Xfinity 
and IMSA Sports Car racing competitions. In an April 2014 article in Forbes, 
senior editor Kurt Badenhausen called FSG "the most sophisticated, synergistic 
player in the coming age of international sports conglomerates".[2] New 
England Sports Ventures, LLC, was incorporated in Delaware in 2001, the 
company registered to do business in Massachusetts in the same year.[3] 
The Boston Red Sox are a professional baseball team based in Boston, Massachusetts, 
and a member of the Major League Baseball’s American League Eastern Division. 
Founded in 1901 as one of the American League's eight charter franchises, 
the Red Sox's home ballpark has been Fenway Park since 1912. The "Red Sox" 
name was chosen by the team owner, John I. Taylor, around 1908, following 
previous Boston teams that had been known as the "Red Stockings". Boston 
was a dominant team in the new league, defeating the Pittsburgh Pirates 
in the first World Series in 1903 and winning four more championships by 
1918. In 2002, the Red Sox were sold by the Yawkey Trust to Fenway Sports 
Group. They had endured one of the longest championship droughts in baseball 
history, called by some the "Curse of the Bambino" after its alleged beginning 
with the Red Sox's sale of Babe Ruth to the rival Yankees in 1918, an 86-year 
wait before the team's sixth World Championship in 2004. Red Sox history 
has also been marked by the team's intense rivalry with the New York Yankees, 
arguably the fiercest and most historic in North American professional 
sports. Since 2003, the Red Sox have been perennial playoff contenders 
and have won three World Series, emerging as one of the most successful 
MLB teams of the last decade. Fenway Park is a baseball park near Kenmore 
Square in Boston, Massachusetts. Located at 4 Yawkey Way, it has served 
as the home ballpark of the Boston Red Sox baseball club since it opened 
in 1912, and is the oldest Major League Baseball stadium currently in use. 
It is, along with Chicago's Wrigley Field, one of the pair of the original 
"jewel box" standard ballparks that are still in use. Considered to be 
one of the best-known sports venues in the world, Fenway Park became the 
oldest venue used by a professional sports team in the United States in 
1999 when the Detroit Tigers moved out of Tiger Stadium which opened the 
same day as Fenway Park.[4] The New England Sports Network (NESN) is a 
regional cable television network that covers the six New England states 
except Fairfield County, Connecticut and Southbury, Connecticut, a town 
in New Haven County that is covered by New York City sports networks. FSG 
is NESN's majority owner (80%) and the Boston Bruins own the remaining 
20%. Although it mainly broadcasts non-national Boston Red Sox and Boston 
Bruins games, NESN also features minor league baseball, regional college 
sports including college hockey games on Friday nights, various outdoor 
shows, and sports talk shows featuring the sports columnists of The Boston 
Globe, as that paper is also owned by John Henry. Roush Fenway Racing (formerly 
Roush Racing) is a racing team competing in NASCAR racing. As one of NASCAR's 
largest premier racing teams, Roush runs teams in the Sprint Cup and Nationwide 
Series, and formerly in the Camping World Truck Series and ARCA RE/MAX 
Series. Roush first entered NASCAR competition in 1988, but had competed 
and won championships in various drag racing and sports car racing series 
since the mid-1960s. The racing business was originally a small branch 
of co-owner Jack Roush's successful automotive engineering and road-racing 
equipment business based in Livonia, Michigan. On February 14, 2007, FSG 
purchased 50% of Roush Racing to create a new corporate entity, Roush Fenway 
Racing.[5] Fenway Sports Management (FSM) was established by FSG in 2004. 
It styles itself as a "new kind of sports marketing agency", created by 
FSG to expand its footprint beyond its most famous holdings, the Boston 
Red Sox of Major League Baseball and Fenway Park. FSM entered into an exclusive 
sponsorship sales agreement with MLB Advanced Media and Boston College's 
major intercollegiate sports in 2004[6] and as of 2014 counts the Red Sox, 
Liverpool F.C., LeBron James,[7] Johnny Manziel,[8] BC, Roush Fenway Racing, 
MLB.com, the PGA Tour's Deutsche Bank Championship, NESN, the Pawtucket 
Red Sox and the Salem Red Sox among its client base. Having previously 
partnered with Fulham F.C., supposedly due to the old quirky heritage of 
Craven Cottage like Fenway; on the October 6, 2010, FSG agreed to buy English 
Premier League soccer club Liverpool F.C.[5] from owners George N. Gillett, 
Jr. and Tom Hicks, after the board voted 3-2 to oust them from the club.[9][10][11][12] 
It purchased through subsidiary, "N.E.S.V. I, LLC" (incorporated in Delaware) 
and UK based holding company "UKSV Holdings Company Limited". Anfield is 
a football stadium in the city of Anfield, Liverpool, England. Built in 
1884 and originally the home of Everton F.C., the stadium has been home 
to Liverpool F.C. since it was formed in 1892. FSG purchased Anfield along 
with Liverpool F.C. in October 2010.[citation needed] John W. Henry is 
the principal owner, holding an estimated 40% of stock in FSG. Boston-based 
asset manager Michael Gordon, a former partner of Jeffrey Vinik and President 
of FSG, holds 12%.[13] No other shareholder owns more than 10%.[14] The 
Boston Red Sox listed the following partners in Fenway Sports Group, LLC, 
in March 2015:[15] Ed Weiss was listed as executive vice president/corporate 
strategy and general counsel, with former United States Senator George 
