Noel Fernando Salas (born May 30, 1985) is a Mexican professional baseball 
pitcher who is a free agent. He has played in Major League Baseball (MLB) 
for the St. Louis Cardinals, Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim and New York 
Mets. Salas first pitched professionally at age 20 when he was signed by 
the Saltillo Saraperos of the Mexican League. There his pitching coach 
was Sid Monge a veteran of ten years in American Major League baseball 
as a player and a coach in the St. Louis Cardinals minor league system.[1] 
According to Salas, Monge was the reason he is now playing in the major 
leagues: "He pushed me. He said 'You can go to America'. He believed in 
me."[1] Representatives from other major league teams took interest in 
Salas as well, with scouts from the Chicago Cubs, Kansas City Royals, Detroit 
Tigers and the Cardinals watching Salas pitch in the 2006 Mexican League 
playoffs. The Cardinals were impressed enough to buy Salas' contract from 
Saltillo in February 2007. He reported for Spring training in Jupiter, 
Florida, remaining there for the entire season with the Cardinals High-A 
ball affiliate Palm Beach Cardinals. He advanced through the minor league 
system, playing for the Double-A Springfield Cardinals in 2008 and Triple-A 
Memphis Redbirds for the 2009 season.[1] Salas began 2010 in Memphis but 
was called up to the majors for the first time on May 27, 2010.[2] He made 
his major league debut the next day, pitching one scoreless inning. In 
2011, he replaced Ryan Franklin as the Cardinals' closer, earning 24 saves 
in 68 appearances with a 2.28 ERA.[1] Salas began the 2012 season with 
St. Louis, but after going 0-3 with a 6.32 ERA in 18 games, he was optioned 
to Triple-A Memphis.[3] It was later learned that Salas had been hampered 
by a kidney stone, and once that medical situation passed he returned to 
St. Louis later in the season.[1] He finished the 2012 season with a record 
of 1-4, 60 strikeouts, and a 4.30 ERA.[4] On November 22, 2013, he was 
traded along with David Freese to the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim for 
Peter Bourjos and Randal Grichuk.[5] On August 31, the Angels traded Salas 
to the New York Mets for minor league pitcher Erik Manoah.[6] He debuted 
for the club on September 1, pitching a scoreless inning against the Miami 
Marlins at Citi Field.[7] Fernando Salas was born and raised in Huatabampo, 
Mexico. Growing up he never thought about playing in the American Major 
Leagues, instead being an avid fan of Mexican League baseball. Said Salas: 
"There is a lot of money to stay in Mexican League. A lot of players in 
Mexican League have a chance, (at American baseball) but they want a lot 
of money." Although he watched little if any American baseball—the only 
game he can remember watching is the 1993 World Series between the Toronto 
Blue Jays and Philadelphia Phillies—he had a dream of proving he was good 
enough to play in the major leagues.[1] Salas and his girlfriend, Daniela, 
are parents of a son, Fernando, born during 2012 spring training. He is 
being raised in Mexico.[8] It is not a situation to Salas' liking: "Other 
Latin players have a lot of family in America. For me, it didn't happen. 
It's a little difficult because my family doesn't know any English. But 
they know it's work. They know it's a profession" and "I love the opportunity. 
