Fever Pitch (released as The Perfect Catch outside of the United States 
and Canada) is a 2005 romantic comedy film. It is directed by the Farrelly 
brothers, and stars Drew Barrymore and Jimmy Fallon. It is a remake of 
the eponymous 1997 British film, which was loosely based on Nick Hornby's 
best-selling memoir, Fever Pitch: A Fan's Life (1992). Hornby wrote the 
screenplay for the original film[2] and was an executive producer for the 
American remake.[3] While both the book and the original 1997 film are 
about association football, the 2005 adaptation, aimed at the U.S. market, 
is about baseball. Both Fever Pitch films feature real-life dramatic or 
unexpected sporting victories, the original focusing on Arsenal's last 
minute League title win in 1989, and the remake on the Boston Red Sox's 
2004 World Series Championship. Ben Wrightman, a 7-year-old boy, is going 
to a Red Sox game with his Uncle Carl. His uncle, who had no children of 
his own, treated Ben like a son. A narration explains that on that day, 
Ben became a die-hard Red Sox fan. Just about everything he owns bears 
the Red Sox name, emblem, or image of a Red Sox player (with the exception 
of his toilet paper, which bears the New York Yankees insignia). Ben inherited 
his uncle's season tickets when Carl died. The story picks up 23 years 
later with Ben (Jimmy Fallon) as a school teacher who is immature for his 
age. He meets Lindsey Meeks (Drew Barrymore), a professionally successful 
workaholic executive. When Ben first asks her out, Lindsey rejects him, 
but she later changes her mind and agrees to go out with him. On their 
first date, Ben finds Lindsey very sick and vomiting. She has food poisoning 
from a new restaurant where she had dined earlier that day. Ben decides 
to spend the night and take care of her, as well as clean up her bathroom 
(whimsically telling her it was the "Vomit Elves" that did the work). The 
next morning, Lindsey, feeling better, finds Ben sleeping on her couch. 
Ben awakens, and he and Lindsey end up developing a romantic relationship. 
Overcoming her initial hesitance, Lindsey becomes attracted to Ben because 
of his ability to show passionate commitment to something. That spring, 
he later pretends he is proposing to her but instead asks her to the Red 
Sox Opening Day, where Stephen King (a longtime Sox fan) throws the first 
pitch. Lindsey attends, but not being a baseball or Red Sox fan, she knows 
nothing about the Curse of the Bambino or even how to pronounce the name 
Yastrzemski. The two continue attending the games together until one summer 
night when Lindsey attempts to catch up on work by taking her laptop to 
the game. Not paying attention to the game, she is knocked out by a line 
drive foul ball by then Baltimore Orioles shortstop Miguel Tejada off Mike 
Myers (which ends up making the late night sports highlight reel). She 
eventually recovers but stops going to the games. Things take a turn for 
the worse when Lindsey invites Ben to accompany her to Paris, and he declines 
the offer because the Red Sox are in the heat of the playoff race. Before 
leaving for Paris, she tells Ben she is "late" and may be pregnant with 
his child, though they later learn she is not. Lindsey starts to become 
fed up with Ben's obsession with the Red Sox. Ben agrees to miss a game 
against the Yankees in order to escort Lindsey to her friend's birthday 
party. Ben and Lindsey have a wonderful time together, and after making 
love, he tells her it was one of the best nights of his life. Moments later, 
Ben receives a call from his ecstatic friend Troy, who informs him that 
the Red Sox overcame a seven run deficit in the bottom of the ninth inning 
to pull off one of the greatest comebacks in team history. Ben becomes 
irate that he missed such an historic Red Sox moment, greatly hurting Lindsey's 
feelings. After Lindsey miserably declares he has broken her heart, he 
and Lindsey separate for a while. Ben soon misses Lindsey and visits her 
in a futile attempt to reconcile. He eventually feels her loss so deeply 
that he plans to sell his season tickets to Chris, Lindsey's girlfriend 
Robin's husband, in order to prove that Lindsey means more to him than 
the Red Sox do. Lindsey finds out about his plan during the celebration 
for her much-anticipated promotion. Immediately leaving the celebration, 
she rushes to the ballpark to try to stop Ben. She gets in during the 8th 
inning of the Red Sox—Yankees playoff game when the Sox are just three 
outs away from being swept. Ben is actually in the process of signing a 
contract with Chris as they sit in the stands. Because she is unable to 
reach Ben from her section in Fenway Park in time to stop Ben from signing 
the contract, Lindsey illegally runs across the field, deftly avoiding 
security personnel as she eventually reaches Ben. She tears Chris' contract 
in pieces and explains that if Ben loves her enough to sell his seats, 
then she loves him enough not to allow him to do so. The two reunite and 
kiss in front of the entire crowd. The narration explains how the Red Sox 
won that game and then beat the Yankees three more times to win the American 
League pennant, later sweeping the National League champion St. Louis Cardinals 
in four games for their first World Series title in 86 years, with Lindsay 
and Ben traveling to Busch Stadium in St. Louis for the decisive Game 4. 
The two of them also get married, and she gets pregnant. The narration 
explains that the baby will be named after one of the players: Ted Williams 
Wrightman if it's a boy, Carla Yastrzemski Wrightman (for Carl Yastrzemski) 
if it's a girl, with the narration jokingly hoping for a boy. The original 
plot had assumed the Red Sox would lose in the playoffs. However, the Sox 
stunned the baseball world when they won four straight games to win the 
2004 ALCS against the rival Yankees (becoming the first MLB team to win 
a seven-game series after losing the first three games) and subsequent 
World Series against the St. Louis Cardinals to break the "Curse of the 
Bambino" thus, the ending had to be rewritten. On the day of Game 4, with 
the Red Sox on the verge of a sweep, The Farrellys decided to bring Barrymore, 
Fallon, and a film crew to St. Louis hours before the first pitch - and 
Barrymore and Fallon attended the game at Busch Stadium in character. When 
the Red Sox made the final out to secure a 3-0 win over the Cardinals that 
broke the Curse, FOX cameras on the live broadcast caught Barrymore and 
Fallon, as Lindsey and Ben, running onto the field and kissing to celebrate.[4] 
The film, with its updated ending, was also screened at Fenway Park the 
following August as a screen was set up in center field.[5] Originally, 
Shawn Levy, who was a huge fan of Nick Hornby's works for years, was attached 
to direct, with Gwyneth Paltrow playing Lindsey.[6] However, Paltrow found 
the script mediocre and turned down the role.[7] Brian Robbins replaced 
Levy, but he quit the project as well.[8] After Drew Barrymore replaced 
Paltrow and Jimmy Fallon joined the cast, Jay Russell,[9] P.J. Hogan,[10] 
Luke Greenfield,[11] and Mira Nair were all rumored candidates to direct 
until the studios hired the Farrelly brothers to take the helm for the 
film. On Rotten Tomatoes the film had an average rating of 65%, based on 
189 reviews, with an average rating of 6.3/10. The site's critical consensus 
read, "While not a home run, Fever Pitch has enough charm and on-screen 
chemistry between the two leads to make it a solid hit."[12] At Metacritic, 
which assigns a weighted average score to reviews from mainstream critics, 
the film received an average score of 56 out of 100, based on 37 critics, 
indicating "mixed or average reviews".[13] On CinemaScore, audiences gave 
the film an average grade of "A–" on an A+ to F scale.[14] From a cinematographic 
and literary perspective, the film received some favorable criticism from 
experts Roger Ebert[15] and James Berardinelli.[16] The film opened at 
#3 and grossed $12.4 million in its opening weekend. The final North American 
gross of the film was $42,071,069, and the worldwide gross was $50,451,307.[1] 
"Sports Guy" Bill Simmons of ESPN disliked the film because he regarded 
it as a "chick flick" disguising itself as a sports movie and said that 
no Red Sox fan would give up season tickets for love,[citation needed] 
but Red Sox Nation voted to award Fallon honorary membership for playing 
Ben so convincingly despite Fallon being a Yankees fan.[citation needed] 
