Fielding in the sport of cricket is the action of fielders in collecting 
the ball after it is struck by the batsman, in such a way either to limit 
the number of runs that the batsman scores or to get the batsman out by 
catching the ball in flight or running the batsman out. Cricket fielding 
position can be broken down into offside and legside parts of the field. 
A fielder or fieldsman may field the ball with any part of his person. 
However, if while the ball is in play he wilfully fields it otherwise (e.g. 
by using his hat), the ball becomes dead and 5 penalty runs are awarded 
to the batting side unless the ball previously struck a batsman not attempting 
to hit or avoid the ball. Most of the rules covering fielders are in Law 
41 of the Laws of cricket. In the early days of Test cricket, fielding 
was not a priority and many players were sloppy when it came to fielding.[citation 
needed] With the advent of One Day International matches, fielding became 
more professional as saving runs became more important. A good fielding 
side can often save 30+ runs in the course of an ODI innings.[citation 
needed] With only 11 players in a team, one of whom is the bowler, and 
usually another as the wicket-keeper, at most nine other fielding positions 
can be used at any given time. Which positions are filled by players and 
which remain vacant is a tactical decision made by the captain of the fielding 
team. The captain (usually in consultation with the bowler and sometimes 
other members of the team) may move players between fielding positions 
at any time except when a bowler is in the act of bowling to a batsman. 
There are a number of named basic fielding positions, some of which are 
employed very commonly and others that are used less often. However, fielding 
positions are not fixed, and fielders can be placed in positions that differ 
from the basic positions. The nomenclature of the positions' names is somewhat 
esoteric, but roughly follow a system of polar coordinates – one word (leg, 
cover, mid-wicket) specifies the angle from the batsman, and is optionally 
preceded by an adjective describing the distance from the batsman (silly, 
short, deep or long). Words such as "backward", "forward", or "square" 
can further indicate the angle. The image shows the location of most of 
the named fielding positions based on a right-handed batsman. The area 
to the left of a right-handed batsman (from the batsman's point of view 
– facing the bowler) is called the leg side or on side, while that to the 
right is the off side. If the batsman is left-handed, the leg and off sides 
are reversed and the fielding positions are a mirror image of those shown. 
Some fielding positions are used offensively. That is, players are put 
there with the main aim being to catch out the batsman rather than to stop 
or slow down the scoring of runs. These positions include Slip (often there 
are multiple slips next to each other, designated First slip, Second slip, 
Third slip, etc., numbered outwards from the wicket-keeper—collectively 
known as the slips cordon) meant to catch balls that just edge off the 
bat; Gully; Fly slip; Leg slip; Leg gully; the short and silly positions. 
Short leg, also known as bat pad, is a position specifically intended to 
catch balls that unintentionally strike the bat and leg pad, and thus end 
up only a metre or two to the leg side. Other positions worth noting include: 
Also the bowler, after delivering the ball, must avoid running on the pitch 
so usually ends up fielding near silly mid on or silly mid off, but somewhat 
closer to the pitch. Additionally, commentators or spectators discussing 
the details of field placement will often use the terms for descriptive 
phrases such as "gully is a bit wider than normal" (meaning he is more 
to the side than normal) or "mid off is standing too deep, he should come 
in shorter" (meaning he is too far away and should be positioned closer 
to the batsman). Fielders may be placed anywhere on the field, subject 
to the following rules. At the time the ball is bowled: If any of these 
rules is violated, an umpire will call the delivery a no ball. Additionally 
a player may not make any significant movement after the ball comes into 
play and before the ball reaches the striker. If this happens, an umpire 
will call and signal 'dead ball'. For close fielders anything other than 
minor adjustments to stance or position in relation to the striker is significant. 
In the outfield, fielders may move in towards the striker or striker's 
wicket; indeed, they usually do. However, anything other than slight movement 
off line or away from the striker is to be considered significant. With 
only nine fielders (apart from the bowler and wicket-keeper), the captain 
of the fielding team must decide which fielding positions to cover, and 
which to leave vacant. The placement of fielders is one of the major tactical 
considerations for the fielding captain. The main decision for a fielding 
captain is to strike a balance between setting an attacking field and a 
defensive field. An attacking field is one in which fielders are positioned 
in such a way that they are likely to take catches, and thus likely to 
get the batsman out. Such a field generally involves having many fielders 
close to the batsman, especially in either slip short leg positions. A 
defensive field is one in which most of the field is covered by a fielder; 
the batsman will therefore find it hard to score large numbers of runs. 
This generally involves having many fielders far from the batsman and in 
front of him, in the positions where he is most likely to hit the ball. 
Many elements govern the decisions on field placements, including: the 
tactical situation in the match; which bowler is bowling; how long the 
batsman has been in; the wear on the ball; the state of the wicket; the 
light; or even how close you are to an interval in play. Some general principles: 
Another consideration when setting a field is how many fielders to have 
on each side of the pitch. With nine fielders to place, the division must 
necessarily be unequal, but the degree of inequality varies. When describing 
a field setting, the numbers of fielders on the off side and leg side are 
often abbreviated into a shortened form, with the off side number quoted 
first. For example, a 5–4 field means 5 fielders on the off side and 4 
on the leg side. Usually, most fielders are placed on the off side. This 
is because most bowlers tend to concentrate the line of their deliveries 
on or outside the off stump, so most shots are hit into the off side. When 
attacking, there may be 3 or 4 slips and 1 or 2 gullies, potentially using 
up to six fielders in that region alone. This would typically be accompanied 
by a mid off, mid on, and fine leg, making it a 7–2 field. Although there 
are only two fielders on the leg side, they should get relatively little 
work as long as the bowlers maintain a line outside off stump. This type 
of field leaves large gaps in front of the wicket, and is used to entice 
the batsmen to attack there, with the hope that they make a misjudgment 
and edge the ball to the catchers waiting behind them. As fields get progressively 
more defensive, fielders will move out of the slip and gully area to cover 
more of the field, leading to 6–3 and 5–4 fields. If a bowler, usually 
a leg spin bowler, decides to attack the batsman's legs in an attempt to 
force a stumping, bowl him behind his legs, or induce a catch on the leg 
side, the field may stack 4–5 towards the leg side. It is unusual to see 
more than 5 fielders on the leg side, because of the restriction that there 
must be no more than two fielders placed behind square leg. Sometimes a 
spinner will bowl leg theory and have seven fielders on the leg side, and 
will bowl significantly wide of the leg stump to prevent scoring. Often 
the ball is so wide that the batsman cannot hit the ball straight of mid-on 
while standing still, and cannot hit to the off side unless they try unorthodox 
and risky shots such as a reverse sweep or pull, or switch their handedness. 
The batsman can back away to the leg side to hit through the off side, 
but can expose their stumps in doing so. The reverse tactic can be used, 
by fast and slow bowlers alike, by placing seven or eight fielders on the 
off side and bowling far outside off stump. The batsman can safely allow 
the ball to pass without fear of it hitting the stumps, but will not score. 
If they want to score they will have to try and risk an edge to a wide 
ball and hit through the packed off side, or trying and drag the ball from 
far outside the stumps to the sparsely-populated leg side. Another attacking 
placement on the leg side is the leg side trap, which involves placing 
fielders near the boundary at deep square and backward square leg and bowling 
bouncers to try to induce the batsman to hook the ball into the air. For 
slower bowlers, the leg trap fieldsmen tend to be placed within 10–15 m 
from the bat behind square, to catch leg glances and sweeps. No member 
of the fielding side other than the wicket-keeper may wear gloves or external 
leg guards, though fielders (in particular players fielding near to the 
bat) may also wear shin protectors, groin protectors ('boxes') and chest 
protectors beneath their clothing. Apart from the wicket-keeper, protection 
for the hand or fingers may be worn only with the consent of the umpires. 
Fielders are permitted to wear a helmet and face guard. This is usually 
employed in a position such as silly point or silly mid-wicket, where proximity 
to the batsman gives little time to avoid a shot directly at their head. 
Due to the discomfort and risk of being hit, the duty of fielding "under 
the helmet" or "under the lid" is often delegated to the most junior member 
of the team. If the helmet is only being used for overs from one end, it 
will be placed behind the wicketkeeper when not in use. Some grounds have 
purpose-built temporary storage in the form of a cavity beneath the pitch, 
approximately 1m x 1m x 1m in size, accessed through a hatch flush with 
the grass, which can be used for storing a helmet, shin pads or drinks 
for the fielding side. 5 penalty runs are awarded to the batting side should 
the ball touch a fielder's headgear whilst it is not being worn unless 
the ball previously struck a batsman not attempting to hit or avoid the 
ball. This rule was introduced in the 19th century to prevent the unfair 
practice of a fielder using a hat (often a top hat) to take a catch. As 
cricket balls are hard and can travel at high speeds off the bat, protective 
equipment is recommended to prevent injury. There have been a few recorded 
deaths in cricket,[3] but they are extremely rare, and not always related 
to fielding.[4] Fielding in cricket requires a range of skills. Close catchers 
require the ability to be able to take quick reaction catches with a high 
degree of consistency. This can require considerable efforts of concentration 
as a catcher may only be required to take one catch in an entire game, 
but his success in taking that catch may have a considerable effect on 
the outcome of the match. Infielders field between 20 to 40 yards away 
from the batsman. The ball will often be hit at them extremely hard, and 
they require excellent athleticism as well as courage in stopping it from 
passing them. Infield catches range from simple, slow moving chances known 
as "dollies" to hard hit balls that require a spectacular diving catch. 
Finally, infielders are the main source of run outs in a game of cricket, 
and their ability to get to the ball quickly, throw it straight and hard 
and make a direct hit on the stumps is an important skill. Outfielders 
field furthest from the bat, typically right on the boundary edge. Their 
main role is to prevent the ball from going over the boundary and scoring 
four or six runs. They need good footspeed to be able to get around the 
field quickly, and a strong arm to be able to make the 50–80-yard throw. 
Outfielders also often have to catch high hit balls that go over the infield. 
Many cricketers are particularly adept in one fielding position and will 
usually be found there: However, players are rarely selected purely because 
of their fielding skills, and all players are expected to win their place 
in the team as either a specialist batsman or bowler (or both). This even 
applies to wicket keepers, who are generally expected to be competent middle-order 
batsmen. There have been many competitions for throwing a cricket ball 
the furthest distance, particularly in the earlier years of the game. Wisden 
describes how the record was set around 1882, by one Robert Percival at 
Durham Sands Racecourse, at 140 yards and two feet (128.7 m). Former Essex 
all-rounder Ian Pont threw a ball 138 yards (126.19 m) in Cape Town in 
1981. There are unconfirmed reports that Jānis Lūsis, the non-cricketer 
Soviet javelin thrower, who won the Olympic gold medal in 1968, once threw 
a ball 150 yards.[5] The use of specialist fielding coaches has become 
more prevalent in recent years, following the trend of specialist batting 
& bowling coaches within professional cricket. The most well known specialist 
