Field of Dreams is a 1989 American fantasy-drama sports film directed by 
Phil Alden Robinson, who also wrote the screenplay, adapting W. P. Kinsella's 
novel Shoeless Joe. It stars Kevin Costner, Amy Madigan, James Earl Jones, 
Ray Liotta, and Burt Lancaster in his final role. It was nominated for 
three Academy Awards: Best Original Score, Best Adapted Screenplay and 
Best Picture. Ray Kinsella is a novice Iowa farmer who lives with his wife, 
Annie, and daughter, Karin. In the opening narration, he explains how he 
had a troubled relationship with his father, John Kinsella, who had been 
a devoted baseball fan. While walking through his cornfield one evening, 
he hears a voice whispering, "If you build it, he will come." He continues 
hearing it before finally seeing a vision of a baseball diamond in his 
field. Annie is skeptical of that, but she allows him to plow the corn 
under in order to build a baseball field. As he builds it, he tells Karin 
the story of the 1919 Black Sox Scandal. As months pass and nothing happens 
at it, his family faces financial ruin until, one night, Karin spots a 
uniformed man in it. Ray recognizes him as Shoeless Joe Jackson, a deceased 
baseball player idolized by John. Thrilled to be able to play baseball 
again, he asks to bring others to the field to play. He later returns with 
the seven other players banned as a result of the 1919 scandal. Ray's brother-in-law, 
Mark, can't see the players and warns him that he will go bankrupt unless 
he replants his corn. While in the field, Ray hears the voice again, this 
time urging him to "ease his pain." Ray attends a PTA meeting at which 
the possible banning of books by radical author Terence Mann is discussed. 
He decides the voice was referring to Mann. He comes across a magazine 
interview dealing with Mann's childhood dream of playing for the Brooklyn 
Dodgers. After Ray and Annie both dream about him and Mann attending a 
baseball game together at Fenway Park, he convinces her that he should 
seek out Mann. He heads to Boston and persuades a reluctant, embittered 
Mann to attend a game with him at Fenway Park. While there, he hears the 
voice again, this time urging him to "go the distance." At the same time, 
the scoreboard "shows" statistics for a player named Archibald "Moonlight" 
Graham, who played one game for the New York Giants in 1922, but never 
had a turn at bat. After the game, Mann eventually admits that he, too, 
saw it. Ray and Mann then travel to Chisholm, Minnesota where they learn 
that Graham had become a doctor and had died sixteen years earlier. During 
a late night walk, Ray finds himself back in 1972 and encounters the then-living 
Graham, who states that he had moved on from his baseball career. He also 
says that the greater disappointment would have been not having a medical 
career. He declines Ray's invitation to fulfill his dream; however, during 
the drive back home, Ray picks up a young hitchhiker who introduces himself 
as Archie Graham. While Archie sleeps, Ray reveals to Mann that John had 
wanted him to live out his dream of being a baseball star. He stopped playing 
catch with him after reading one of Mann's books at 14. At 17, he had denounced 
Shoeless Joe as a criminal to John and that was the reason for the rift 
between them. Ray expresses regret that he didn't get a chance to make 
things right before John died. When they arrive back at Ray's farm, they 
find that enough players have arrived to field two teams. A game is played 
and Archie finally gets his turn at bat. The next morning, Mark returns 
and demands that Ray sell the farm. Karin says that they will not need 
to because people will pay to watch the ballgames. Mann agrees, saying 
that "people will come" in order to relive their childhood innocence. Ray, 
after much thought, refuses and a frustrated Mark scuffles with him, during 
which Karin is accidentally knocked off the bleachers. The young Graham 
runs from the field to help, becoming old Graham, complete with Gladstone 
bag, the instant he steps off of it, and saves Karin from choking (she 
had been eating a hot dog when she fell). Ray realizes that Graham sacrificed 
his young self in order to save her. After reassuring Ray that his true 
calling was medicine and being commended by the other players, Graham leaves, 
disappearing into the corn. Suddenly, Mark is able to see the players and 
urges Ray not to sell the farm. After the game, Shoeless Joe invites Mann 
to enter the corn; he accepts and disappears into it. Ray is angry at not 
being invited, but Shoeless Joe rebukes him: if he really wants a reward 
for having sacrificed so much, then he had better stay on the field. Shoeless 
Joe then glances towards a player at home plate, saying "If you build it, 
he will come." The player then removes his mask, and Ray recognizes him 
to be John as a young man. Shocked, Ray realizes that "ease his pain" referred 
to John, and believes that Shoeless Joe was the voice all along; however, 
Joe implies that the voice was Ray himself. Joe then disappears into the 
corn. Ray introduces John to Annie and Karin. As he heads towards the corn, 
Ray asks him if he wants to play a game of catch. They begin to play and 
Annie happily watches. Meanwhile, hundreds of cars can be seen approaching 
the baseball field, fulfilling Karin and Mann's prophecy that people will 
come to watch baseball. Ben Affleck and Matt Damon appear as extras in 
the scene at Fenway Park. Phil Alden Robinson read Shoeless Joe in 1981 
and liked it so much that he brought it to producers Lawrence Gordon and 
Charles Gordon. Lawrence Gordon worked for 20th Century Fox, part of the 
time as its president, and repeatedly mentioned that the book should be 
adapted into a film. The studio, however, always turned down the suggestion 
because they felt the project was too esoteric and noncommercial. Meanwhile, 
Robinson went ahead with his script, frequently consulting W. P. Kinsella, 
the book's author, for advice on the adaptation. Lawrence Gordon left Fox 
in 1986 and started pitching the adaptation to other studios. Universal 
Studios accepted the project in 1987 and hired USC coach Rod Dedeaux as 
baseball advisor. Dedeaux brought along World Series champion and USC alumnus 
Don Buford to coach the actors.[5] The film was shot using the novel's 
title; eventually, an executive decision was made to rename it Field of 
Dreams. Robinson did not like the idea saying he loved Shoeless Joe, and 
that the new title was better suited for one about dreams deferred. Later, 
Kinsella told Robinson that his originally chosen title for the book had 
been The Dream Field and that the title Shoeless Joe had been imposed by 
the publisher.[6] Robinson and the producers did not originally consider 
Kevin Costner for the part of Ray because they did not think that he would 
want to follow Bull Durham with another baseball film. He, however, did 
end up reading the script and became interested in the project, stating 
that he felt it would be "this generation's It's a Wonderful Life". Since 
Robinson's directing debut In the Mood had been a commercial failure, Costner 
also said that he would help him with the production. Amy Madigan, a fan 
of the book, joined the cast as Ray's wife, Annie. In the book, the writer 
Ray seeks out is real-life author J.D. Salinger. When Salinger threatened 
the production with a lawsuit if his name was used, Robinson decided to 
rewrite the character as reclusive Terence Mann. He wrote with James Earl 
Jones in mind because he thought it would be fun to see Ray trying to kidnap 
such a big man. Robinson had originally envisioned Shoeless Joe Jackson 
as being played by an actor in his 40s, someone who would be older than 
Costner and who could thereby act as a father surrogate. Ray Liotta did 
not fit that criterion, but Robinson thought he would be a better fit for 
the part because he had the "sense of danger" and ambiguity which Robinson 
wanted in the character. Burt Lancaster had originally turned down the 
part of Moonlight Graham, but changed his mind after a friend, who was 
also a baseball fan, told him that he had to work on the film.[5] Filming 
began on May 25, 1988. The shooting schedule was built around Costner's 
availability because he would be leaving in August to film Revenge. Except 
for some weather delays and other time constraints, production rolled six 
days a week. The interior scenes were the first ones shot because the cornfield 
planted by the filmmakers was taking too long to grow. Irrigation had to 
be used to quickly grow the corn to Costner's height. Primary shot locations 
were in Dubuque County, Iowa; a farm near Dyersville was used for the Kinsella 
home; an empty warehouse in Dubuque was used to build various interior 
sets. Galena, Illinois served as Moonlight Graham's Chisholm, Minnesota.[5] 
One week was spent on location shots in Boston, most notably Fenway Park.[7] 
Robinson, despite having a sufficient budget as well as the cast and crew 
he wanted, constantly felt tense and depressed during filming. He felt 
that he was under too much pressure to create an outstanding film, and 
that he was not doing justice to the original novel. Lawrence Gordon convinced 
him that the end product would be effective.[5] During a lunch with the 
Iowa Chamber of Commerce, Robinson broached his idea of a final scene in 
which headlights could be seen for miles along the horizon. The Chamber 
folks replied that it could be done and the shooting of the final scene 
became a community event. The film crew was hidden on the farm to make 
sure the aerial shots did not reveal them. Dyersville was then blacked 
out and local extras drove their vehicles to the field. In order to give 
the illusion of movement, the drivers were instructed to continuously switch 
between their low and high beams. Scenes of the Kinsella farm were taken 
on the property of Don Lansing; some of the baseball field scenes were 
shot on the neighboring farm of Al Amsekamp. Because the shooting schedule 
was too short for grass to naturally grow, the experts on sod laying responsible 
for Dodger Stadium and the Rose Bowl were hired to create the baseball 
field. Part of the process involved painting the turf green. [5] After 
shooting, Amsekamp again grew corn on his property; Lansing maintained 
his as a tourist destination.[5] He did not charge for admission or parking, 
deriving revenue solely from the souvenir shop. By the film's twentieth 
anniversary, approximately 65,000 people visited annually.[8] In July, 
2010, the farm containing the "Field" was listed as for sale.[9] It was 
sold on October 31, 2011, to Go The Distance Baseball, LLC, for an undisclosed 
fee, believed to be around $5.4 million.[10] At first, James Horner was 
unsure if he could work on the film due to scheduling restrictions. Then 
he watched a rough cut and was so moved that he accepted the job of scoring 
it. Robinson had created a temp track which was disliked by Universal executives. 
When the announcement of Horner as composer was made, they felt more positive 
because they expected a big orchestral score, similar to Horner's work 
for An American Tail. Horner, in contrast, liked the temporary score, finding 
it "quiet and kind of ghostly." He decided to follow the idea of the temp 
track, creating an atmospheric soundtrack which would "focus on the emotions".[5] 
In addition to Horner's score, portions of several pop songs are heard 
during the film. They are listed in the following order in the closing 
credits: The character played by Burt Lancaster and Frank Whaley, Archibald 
"Moonlight" Graham, is based on an actual baseball player with the same 
name. His character is largely true to life except for a few factual liberties 
taken for artistic reasons. For instance, the real Graham's lone major 
league game occurred in June 1905,[11] rather than on the final day of 
the 1922 season. In the film, Terence Mann interviews a number of people 
about Graham. The DVD special points out that the facts they gave him were 
taken from articles written about the real one. Universal scheduled the 
film to open in the U.S. on April 21, 1989.[12] It debuted in just a few 
theaters and was gradually released to more screens so that it would have 
a spot among the summer blockbusters. It ended up playing until December.[5] 
Critics responded positively to the film. As of May 2014, review aggregator 
Rotten Tomatoes scores it at 87%, making it "Certified Fresh" (based on 
54 reviews with an average score of 7.9 out of 10). The consensus states 
"Field of Dreams" is sentimental, but in the best way; it's a mix of fairy 
tale, baseball, and family togetherness."[13] In June 2008, after having 
polling over 1,500 people in the creative community, AFI revealed its "Ten 
Top Ten" — the best ten films in ten "classic" American film genres. The 
film was acknowledged as the sixth best one in the fantasy genre.[14][15] 
