Fieldin Henry Culbreth III (born March 16, 1963) is an American umpire 
in Major League Baseball (MLB). He umpired in his first MLB game in 1993[1] 
and became an American League (AL) staff member in 1999 (MLB merged its 
two umpire staffs into one the following year).[2][3] Culbreth has umpired 
in five Division Series, six League Championship Series, two World Series 
and one All-Star Game, as well as the National League's single-game playoff 
in 2007. He was one of the umpires when a Tampa Bay Rays pitcher threw 
a no-hitter for the first time in team history, and he was behind the plate 
when the New York Mets achieved the same distinction. Prior to the 2013 
Major League Baseball season, Culbreth, Ted Barrett and Jim Joyce became 
crew chiefs after the retirements of Ed Rapuano, Tim Tschida and Derryl 
Cousins.[4] Culbreth had never umpired prior to attending umpire school, 
and he began umpiring in 1987. He did not take long to reach the major 
leagues, where he made his first umpiring appearance on August 13, 1993.[1] 
On that day, Culbreth umpired at second base in a game played at the Kingdome 
between the Seattle Mariners and the California Angels.[5] Culbreth became 
a member of the official AL umpire staff in 1999, when multiple call-up 
umpires were hired to take the place of umpires who had participated in 
a mass resignation.[3][6] He began his career on the AL staff, but in 2000 
MLB merged the umpires from its two leagues.[2] Culbreth wore #42 as an 
AL umpire, but he had to stop using that number after it was retired in 
recognition of Jackie Robinson.[1] Culbreth, Ted Barrett and Jim Joyce 
were promoted to crew chief positions prior to the 2013 season, after former 
crew chiefs Ed Rapuano, Tim Tschida and Derryl Cousins retired.[3] At the 
age of 49, Culbreth became the second-youngest active crew chief, with 
only Barrett younger at the age of 47.[7] Culbreth's 2013 crew consists 
of Brian O'Nora, Bill Welke and Adrian Johnson.[8] According to Retrosheet, 
Culbreth has issued a total of 38 ejections during his major league career 
through the 2014 season. His highest single-season ejection total was six 
in 1997. Through 2012, he has officiated in a total of 2,512 games, and 
he has served in more than one hundred games each season since 1997.[9] 
Culbreth was a part of the umpiring crew when Cal Ripken, Jr. of the Baltimore 
Orioles joined the 3,000 hit club. He was present when Ripken finally sat 
out of a game after having played in 2,632 consecutive games. Culbreth 
was the home plate umpire when Baltimore's Rafael Palmeiro reached the 
3,000-hit milestone on July 15, 2005[1] with a double against Joel Piñeiro 
of the Seattle Mariners.[10] Culbreth was the left field umpire for the 
single-game playoff between the Colorado Rockies and the San Diego Padres 
that decided the NL's 2007 wild card team.[11] The game ended in the 13th 
inning when home plate umpire Tim McClelland called Rockies player Matt 
Holliday safe at home plate; the call was controversial and replays did 
not show clearly whether or not Holliday touched the plate on the play. 
Colorado won by a score of 9–8.[12] Culbreth has umpired in the American 
League Division Series in 2002, 2007, 2012, and 2014; and the National 
League Division Series in 2004 and 2008. He officiated in the American 
League Championship Series in 2000, 2009, 2010 and 2011; and the National 
League Championship Series in 2003 and 2006. Culbreth umpired in the World 
Series in 2008[13] and 2012.[14] Culbreth has officiated in 67 postseason 
games through the 2012 season, being the plate umpire for 11 of those contests.[9] 
He was also a member of the crew for the 2006 MLB All-Star Game in Pittsburgh.[1] 
The American League defeated the National League, 3–2.[15] In the 2008 
World Series, which featured the Philadelphia Phillies and Tampa Bay Rays, 
Culbreth worked behind home plate for Game 3. The Phillies claimed a 5–4 
victory due to a walk–off single by Carlos Ruiz.[16] Philadelphia won the 
Series in five games.[17] In Game 3 of the 2012 World Series, Culbreth 
umpired behind the plate for the matchup between the Detroit Tigers and 
the San Francisco Giants. The Giants shut out the Tigers, 2–0.[18] San 
Francisco won the World Series in the next game.[19] Culbreth was the first-base 
umpire for Tampa Bay Rays pitcher Matt Garza's no-hitter against the Detroit 
Tigers on July 26, 2010. In the third inning, Tigers manager Jim Leyland 
was ejected from the game by second-base umpire Marty Foster.[20] Garza's 
no-hitter was the first by a Rays pitcher.[21] Culbreth was at second base 
on June 1, 2012, when New York Mets pitcher Johan Santana threw a no-hitter 
against the St. Louis Cardinals.[22] This no-hitter was the first to be 
thrown by a Mets pitcher. Santana benefited from a close call on the third 
base line by umpire Adrian Johnson; the Carlos Beltrán line drive appeared 
to be fair, but Johnson ruled it foul.[23] During spring training in 2014, 
Culbreth was part of the first use of expanded replay in a MLB game. After 
Toronto Blue Jays manager John Gibbons elected to challenge a safe call 
made by Culbreth, who was umpiring at first base, replay umpire Brian O'Nora 
upheld the ruling following a video review that lasted 2 minutes and 34 
seconds.[24] During the 2001 season, Culbreth received an email from then-MLB 
official Sandy Alderson advising the umpire that he was not calling enough 
strikes and that if he did not make adjustments, he would face criticism 
from ESPN analysts when he umpired a game that was broadcast by the network.[25] 
On September 16, 2005, Culbreth was involved in a dispute with pitcher 
Randy Johnson of the New York Yankees. At the time, the Yankees were contending 
for a playoff spot. After Johnson expressed his displeasure with some of 
the umpire's calls on balls and strikes, Culbreth ejected Johnson in the 
second inning. New York catcher John Flaherty stated that he "was disappointed 
that Fieldin reacted as quickly as he did", but Flaherty also admitted 
that Culbreth "had a legitimate gripe."[26] Johnson said that he was "deeply 
regretful" and acknowledged, "I was wrong for letting my emotions get away 
from me."[27] Prior to Johnson's apology, Culbreth was criticized by Yankees 
announcers John Sterling and Suzyn Waldman, neither of whom was aware of 
what had been said on the field.[28] Earlier in the 2005 season, Culbreth 
had twice ejected Philadelphia Phillies manager Charlie Manuel from games, 
once in April and again in August. During the 2001 season,Culbreth had 
previously ejected Manuel from a contest; it was held during Manuel's time 
as manager of the Cleveland Indians. Culbreth has also thrown former manager 
Mike Hargrove out of three different games, with two of the ejections taking 
place while Hargrove was with Cleveland and the third during the manager's 
time in Baltimore.[9] During a game in 2013 between the Houston Astros 
and Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, Culbreth, acting as the crew chief for 
the game, made an incorrect call in the 7th inning. He later received a 
two-game suspension and a fine. Los Angeles had runners on first and second 
base with two outs when Houston manager Bo Porter made a pitching change, 
bringing in left-hander Wesley Wright. Los Angeles manager Mike Scioscia 
called for a pinch-hitter, inserting right-handed batter Luis Jimenez. 
Porter attempted to make a second pitching change, before Wright threw 
a single pitch, by calling for Héctor Ambriz, a right-handed pitcher. Scioscia 
immediately argued the second pitching change, pursuant to MLB rule 3.05(b), 
which states "If the pitcher is replaced, the substitute pitcher shall 
pitch to the batter then at bat, or any substitute batter, until such batter 
is put out or reaches first base, or until the offensive team is put out, 
unless the substitute pitcher sustains injury or illness which, in the 
umpire-in-chief's judgment, incapacitates him for further play as a pitcher". 
After discussing the call with his umpiring crew, Culbreth allowed the 
pitching change, violating the rule. The three other umpires working the 
game (Brian O'Nora, Bill Welke, and Adrian Johnson) received unspecified 
fines for the incident, while Culbreth was suspended and fined by MLB. 
He did not serve his suspension immediately, and he continued working regular 
games in the weeks following the incident.[29][30] Fieldin Culbreth was 
born and raised in Inman, South Carolina. He attended Mabry Middle School. 
A former pitcher and outfielder, Culbreth graduated from Chapman High School[1] 
and attended Spartanburg Methodist College. He studied at the University 
of North Carolina at Charlotte, where he played baseball.[7] He began umpiring 
in college following an arm injury. He and his wife Claire have three children: 
Fieldin IV, Celina and Shannon.[1] As a member of an organization called 
BLUE for Kids, Culbreth has visited and brought presents to hospitalized 
children on multiple occasions.[31][32] Culbreth is five feet and eleven 
