In baseball, fielder's choice (abbreviated FC) is a term used to refer 
to a variety of plays involving an offensive player reaching a base due 
to the defense's attempt to put out another baserunner, or the defensive 
team's indifference to his advance. Fielder's choice is not called by the 
umpires on the field of play; rather, it is recorded by the official scorer 
to account for the offensive player's advance without crediting him with 
an offensive statistic such as a hit or stolen base. Though there are several 
definitions of fielder's choice, the most common (and the only one commonly 
referred to as FC) involves a fielder fielding a fair ball and choosing 
to try to put out another baserunner, thereby allowing the batter-runner 
to safely reach first base. The defensive player may or may not have an 
opportunity to retire the batter runner. If a preceding runner is retired 
on a force out, the batter will not be rewarded with a hit and will be 
scored a Fielders Choice (FC). Other plays that fall under the definition 
of FC are usually referred to using other terms such as "defensive indifference" 
or "on the throw." Fielder's choice is defined in MLB Rule 2, "Definitions", 
as "the act of a fielder who handles a fair grounder and, instead of throwing 
to first base to put out the batter-runner, throws to another base in an 
attempt to put out a preceding runner." FC is recorded for the batter-runner 
if he reaches first base safely regardless of whether the attempt to put 
out the other runner(s) is successful. If the other runner is successfully 
put out for the third out, FC is recorded for the batter-runner regardless 
of whether he had already reached first base (if the other runner was forced 
out, the batter is described as grounding into a force play). Rule 2 also 
defines FC as any of the following circumstances: In many situations fielder's 
choice requires the official scorer to make judgment calls, such as what 
the outcome of the play would have been had there been no runners on base 
after taking into account ordinary effort by the defensive team, as well 
as what effect any errors committed by the defensive team might have had 
on the play. A batter who reaches first base safely as the result of a 
fielder's choice is not credited with a hit or a time on base; however, 
his turn at the plate is recorded as an at bat and plate appearance. Therefore, 
a player's batting average and on-base percentage decrease as a result 
of reaching first base via fielder's choice. A batter who reaches first 
base safely but advances on the same play as the result of fielder's choice 
is credited with a hit for the number of bases he would have reached safely 
with no other runners on base, and is said to have taken the additional 
base(s) on the throw. A baserunner who makes an undefended steal is not 
credited with a stolen base, but his advance is accounted for as defensive 
