Coordinates: 51°34′16″N 0°06′03″W﻿ / ﻿51.5712°N 0.1009°W﻿ / 51.5712; -0.1009 
Finsbury Park is a public park in the ward of the London neighbourhood 
of Harringay. It is in the area formerly covered by the historic parish 
of Hornsey, succeeded by the Municipal Borough of Hornsey. It was one of 
the first of the great London parks laid out in the Victorian era. The 
park borders the districts of Finsbury Park, Harringay, Stroud Green, and 
Manor House. The park has a mix of open ground, formal gardens, avenues 
of mature trees and an arboretum. There is also a lake, a children's play 
area, a cafe and an art exhibition space. Sports facilities in the park 
include football pitches, a bowling green,[5] an athletics stadium, and 
tennis and basketball courts.[2] Unusually for London, the park hosts two 
facilities for "American" sports: an American football field, home to the 
London Blitz, and diamonds for softball and baseball, home to the London 
Mets. Parkland Walk, a linear park, provides a route that links the park 
with Crouch Hill Park, Crouch End, and Highgate tube station. The park 
was landscaped on the northeastern extremity of what was originally a woodland 
area in the Manor or Prebend of Brownswood. It was part of a large expanse 
of woodland called Hornsey Wood that was cut further and further back for 
use as grazing land during the Middle Ages. In the mid-18th century a tea 
room had opened on the knoll of land on which Finsbury Park is situated. 
Londoners would travel north to escape the smoke of the capital and enjoy 
the last remains of the old Hornsey Wood. Around 1800 the tea rooms were 
developed into a larger building which became known as the Hornsey Wood 
House/Tavern. A lake was also built on the top of the knoll with water 
pumped up from the nearby New River. There was boating, a shooting and 
archery range, and probably cock fighting and other blood sports. The Hornsey 
Wood Tavern was destroyed in the process of making the area into a park, 
but the lake was enlarged. Once the park had opened, a pub across the road 
from its eastern entrance along Seven Sisters Road called itself the Hornsey 
Wood Tavern after the original. This pub was later renamed the Alexandra 
Dining Room and closed for business in April 2007. It was subsequently 
demolished.[6] During the early part of the second quarter of the 19th 
century, following developments in Paris, Londoners began to demand the 
creation of open spaces as an antidote to the ever-increasing urbanisation 
of London. In 1841 the people of Finsbury in the City of London petitioned 
for a park to alleviate conditions of the poor. The present-day site of 
Finsbury Park was one of four suggestions for the location of a park.[7] 
Originally to be named Albert Park,[6] the first plans were drawn up in 
1850.[4] Renamed Finsbury Park, plans for the park's creation were ratified 
by an Act of Parliament in 1857.[3] Despite some local opposition, the 
park was opened in 1869. During the First World War the park was known 
as a location for pacifist meetings.[8] During the Second World War, the 
park was used as military training grounds. and also hosted anti-aircraft 
guns.[9] Through the late 20th Century the park began to fall into a state 
of disrepair with most of the original features gone by the 1980s. This 
decline was worsened in 1986 when the then owner, Greater London Council 
was wound up and ownership was passed on Haringey Council but without sufficient 
funding or a statutory obligation for the park's upkeep.[10] A £5 million 
Heritage Lottery Fund Award, made in 2003, enabled significant renovations 
including cleaning the lake, building a new cafe and children's playground 
and resurfacing and repairing the tennis courts. The park now contains 
tennis courts, a running track, a softball field and many open spaces for 
various leisure activities.[11] The park has hosted several live music 
