A fire sale is the sale of goods at extremely discounted prices, typically 
when the seller faces bankruptcy. The term originated in reference to the 
sale of goods at a heavy discount due to fire damage. A fire sale may or 
may not be a closeout, the final sale of goods to zero inventory. Fire 
sales are said to occur in the financial markets when bidders who value 
assets highly are prevented from bidding on them, depressing the average 
selling price below what it otherwise would be. This lowering of the price 
can cause even further issues because it may be inaccurately perceived 
as signaling negative information.[1] In American professional sports, 
a fire sale occurs when a team trades many of its veteran players, especially 
expensive star players, to other teams for less expensive and usually younger 
players. Teams usually have a fire sale for financial reasons. The term 
is generally thought of as different from merely "rebuilding" a team, because 
during a rebuilding process, teams often obtain players who are already 
in the major leagues or who are close to being major-league-ready, while 
retaining at least some of their key veterans (such as a franchise player) 
while also getting players from their minor league system; most rebuilding 
teams have few veterans remaining to jettison in the first place. On the 
other hand, trades in a fire sale often bring a team draft picks and prospects 
who have little to no major-league experience in their sport, in exchange 
for proven, experienced veterans. The term comes from the perception that 
the team is trying to get rid of all its players. The sports usage of the 
term "fire sale" is most especially used in Major League Baseball, where 
the most infamous fire sale occurred in 1997. Weeks after winning the 1997 
World Series, the Florida Marlins began trading away several of their high 
salary players and key cogs in the championship run, with Moisés Alou and 
Al Leiter among the first of many to go throughout the off-season and well 
into the 1998 season. This ended any realistic chance of the Marlins' defending 
their title. They plummeted to a 54–108 record in 1998, the worst ever 
by a defending World Series champion. Another infamous fire sale occurred 
in 1994. The Montreal Expos ended the strike-shortened 1994 season with 
the best record in the majors. But by the start of the following season, 
many of the team's young stars had either been traded or lost to free agency. 
The Expos never really recovered on or off the field from this, and were 
forced to move to Washington, D.C. as the Nationals in 2005. The Miami 
Marlins had another controversial fire sale in 2012–2013 offseason. In 
a massive trade with the Toronto Blue Jays, they sent away such players 
as Josh Johnson, José Reyes, and Mark Buehrle.[2] The term is adapted from 
reference to the sale of fire-damaged goods at reduced prices. In Proceedings 
of the Fitchburg [Mass.] Historical Society and Papers Relating to the 
History of the Town Read by Some of the Members the following entry is 
found: In December, 1856, the account of an extensive fire in the American 
House mentions the following occupants: E. B. Gee, clothing; T. B. Choate, 
drugs; J. C. Tenney, boots and shoes; Maraton Upton, dry goods; and M. 
W. Hayward, groceries. Maraton Upton removed his stock to No. 9 Rollstone 
block, and advertised "Extraordinary fire sale; customers are invited to 
call and examine goods which are still warm."[3] The term also has a counterpart 
in "railroad salvage", the discount sale of goods damaged in derailment 
