Fire Station No. 19, now the site of a Buffalo Wild Wings, and the architectural 
firm Station 19 Architects[2] in Minneapolis, Minnesota, United States 
is centered in the University of Minnesota, Minneapolis campus. The former 
Fire Station is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. It 
was built in 1893 in an era when Minneapolis was growing rapidly. Rapid 
development was bringing prosperity to Minneapolis, but it was also starting 
to tax the city's infrastructure. Residents and businesses on the east 
bank of the Mississippi River were demanding better fire protection, especially 
after the fire that consumed the University of Minnesota Old Main building 
in 1892 along with some grain elevators nearby. Fire Station No. 19 was 
built in a simple utilitarian style (unique to Minneapolis), yet it contained 
some touches of ornamentation. It was built with a bell tower that was 
later removed. The fire station was one of the last to house horse-drawn 
equipment, as late as 1922. A newer Fire Station 19 was occupied in 1976 
one block to the south.[3] Besides its role as a firehouse, Historic Fire 
Station No. 19 was also the birthplace of kittenball, a variant of softball. 
Louis Rober, a lieutenant at the fire station between 1896 and 1906, adapted 
the rules of baseball to create a game that would use less space, time, 
and equipment than a regular baseball game.[3] He created the game so firefighters 
could get exercise while waiting for a fire alarm. Early teams included 
the "Kittens" of Engine Company 19, "Rats" of Engine Company 9, "Whales" 
of Engine Company 4, "Salisburys" from a mattress factory, "Pillsburys" 
from nearby flour mills, and the "Central Avenues". By 1906, more than 
20 teams were playing in summer leagues.[4] The building was acquired in 
1977 by local architects who turned the building into offices under the 
name Station 19 Architects.[5] The firm primarily creates designs for churches 
in Minnesota. There was some concern in the mid-2000s decade that the University 
of Minnesota would have the structure demolished to make way for rearranged 
roads leading to and from the then-unbuilt TCF Bank Stadium. The university 
made offers to purchase the property into early 2006, and the building 
owners worried that the property would be seized through eminent domain.[6] 
However, the roads were eventually routed around the building, making it 
