First base, or 1B, is the first of four stations on a baseball diamond 
which must be touched in succession by a baserunner in order to score a 
run for that player's team. A first baseman is the player on the team playing 
defense who fields the area nearest first base, and is responsible for 
the majority of plays made at that base. In the numbering system used to 
record defensive plays, the first baseman is assigned the number 3. Also 
called first sacker or cornerman, the first baseman is ideally a tall player 
who throws left-handed and possesses good flexibility and quick reflexes. 
Flexibility is needed because the first baseman receives throws from the 
other infielders, the catcher and the pitcher after they have fielded ground 
balls. In order for the runner to be called out, the first baseman must 
be able to stretch towards the throw and catch it before the runner reaches 
first base. First base is often referred to as "the other hot corner"—the 
"hot corner" being third base—and therefore, like the third baseman, he 
must have quick reflexes to field the hardest hit balls down the foul line, 
mainly by left-handed pull hitters and right-handed hitters hitting to 
the opposite field. They usually are power hitters that are in the top 
of the league in Home Runs and extra base hits while maintaining a .270 
plus batting average. Good defensive first basemen, according to Bill James, 
are capable of playing off first base so that they can field ground balls 
hit to the fair side of first base.[citation needed] The first baseman 
then relies upon the pitcher to cover first base to receive the ball to 
complete the out. Indications of a good defensive first baseman include 
a large number of assists and a low number of throwing errors by other 
infielders. The nature of play at first base often requires first basemen 
to stay close to the bag to hold runners or to reach the bag before the 
batter. First basemen are not typically expected to have the range required 
of a third baseman, shortstop, second baseman or an outfielder. As a result, 
first base is not usually perceived to be as physically demanding as other 
positions. However, it can also be a very hard position to play; a large 
amount of concentration and timing is required. Though many play at first 
base their entire career, it is common for veteran players to be moved 
to first base in order to extend their careers or to accommodate other 
recently acquired players. Facing a possible trade or a considerable reduction 
in playing time, a player will usually opt to move to first base instead. 
Catchers and corner outfielders are often moved to first base due to deteriorating 
health or if their fielding abilities at their original position are detrimental 
to the team. Unlike the pitcher and catcher, who must start every play 
in a designated area (the pitcher must be on the pitcher's mound, with 
one foot in contact with the pitcher's rubber, and the catcher must be 
behind home plate in the catcher's box) the first baseman and the other 
fielders can vary their positioning in response to what they anticipate 
will be the actions of the batter and runner(s) once play begins.[1] When 
first base is not occupied by a baserunner, the first baseman usually stands 
behind first base and off the foul line. The distance he plays from the 
base and foul line is dependent on the current hitter and any runners on 
base. The exact position may also depend on the first baseman's experience, 
preference, fielding ability. For a known right-handed pull hitter, the 
first baseman might position himself further towards the second baseman's 
normal fielding position. For a known left-handed pull hitter, the first 
baseman will position himself closer to the foul line in order to stop 
a ball hit down the line. To protect against a bunt on the first base side 
of the infield, the first baseman will position himself in front of the 
base and move towards the hitter as the pitch is thrown. As soon as the 
pitcher commits to throwing towards home plate, the first basemen will 
charge towards the hitter to field the bunt. During these plays, it is 
the responsibility of the second basemen to cover first base. With a base 
runner present at first base, the first baseman stands with his right foot 
touching the base to prepare for a pickoff attempt. Once the pitcher commits 
to throwing towards home plate, the first baseman comes off the bag in 
front of the runner and gets in a fielding position. If the bases are loaded, 
or if the runner on first base is not a base stealing threat, the first 
baseman will position himself behind the runner and appropriate for the 
current batter. When waiting for a throw from another player, the first 
baseman stands with his off-glove foot touching the base, then stretches 
toward the throw. This stretch decreases the amount of time it takes the 
throw to get to first and encourages the umpire to call close plays in 
favor of the fielding team. Veteran first basemen are known to pull off 
the bag early on close plays to convince the umpire that the ball reached 
his glove before the runner reached first base. The first baseman also 
has the responsibility of cutting off throws from any of the three outfield 
positions on their way to home plate. Though highly situational, the first 
baseman usually only receives throws from the center or right fielder. 
The first baseman is usually at the end of a double play, though he can 
be at the beginning and end of a double play. Unusual double plays involving 
the first baseman include the 3–6–3, 3–4–3, 3–2–3, or a 3–6–1 double play. 
In a 3–6–3 or 3–4–3 double play, the first baseman fields the ball, throws 
to second, where the shortstop (6) or second baseman (4) catches the ball 
to make the first out and then throws back to the first baseman who reaches 
first base in time to tag first base before the batter reaches first base. 
For a 3–2–3 double play, the bases must be loaded for the force-out at 
home plate or the catcher must tag the runner coming from third base out. 
With a force-out at home plate, the first baseman fields the ball, throws 
to the catcher, the catcher steps on home plate for the first out, then 
he throws it back to the first baseman to complete the double play. The 
3–2–3 double play with a tag out at home plate is usually not attempted 
because of the possibility of the catcher not being able to tag the runner 
and/or block the plate. If the runner at third base is known as a good 
or fast baserunner, the first basemen will make considerable effort to 
make sure the third base runner does not advance to home plate for a run 
by "looking" him back to third base. The primary goal of the first baseman 
in this instance is to ensure the runner doesn't advance and that the team 
records at least one out, especially in a close game. A 3-6-1 double play 
is almost like a 3-6-3 or a 3-4-3 double play, but the first baseman is 
usually playing deep in the infield. Here, the first baseman throws the 
ball to the shortstop covering second, but the pitcher then has the responsibility 
of covering first base to receive the throw from the shortstop. A first 
baseman can theoretically also make an unassisted double play. There are 
two ways to achieve this. The first is by catching a line drive and returning 
to first base to tag the base before a baserunner can return. This is rare 
because the first baseman is usually slower than most baserunners who generally 
return to their bases on line drives near any fielder. The second is by 
getting an infield hit to the right when there is a runner on first, tagging 
the runner and returning to the first base in time to get the man running 
towards him. A left-handed throwing non-pitcher is often converted to or 
begins his career playing at first base. A left-handed throwing baseball 
player who is not particularly fast or has a weak arm (and therefore not 
well suited for playing in the outfield) will be relegated to playing first 
base. This is because the only other positions available to the player 
(catcher, third base, shortstop or second base) are overwhelmingly held 
by right-handed throwing players, who can make quicker throws to first 
base. The same advantages of being a right-handed throwing catcher, third 
basemen, shortstop or second basemen apply to the left-handed first baseman. 
These advantages surface in plays where the player is required to throw 
to another infielder after fielding a batted ball. In these instances, 
a right-hander will be required to turn more towards their target before 
throwing whereas a left-hander will usually already be positioned to make 
a throw. However, compared to the advantage for the right-handed throwing 
third baseman, shortstop, or second baseman, these advantages for the left-handed 
first baseman are minor because many balls hit to the first baseman are 
to his right, so that a right-handed first baseman fielding them backhanded 
does not need to turn after fielding a batted ball in order to throw it. 
In addition, a majority of plays only require the first baseman to receive 
a throw, not to field or throw himself. This is attributed to the overall 
majority of baseball players batting right-handed, and therefore, a majority 
of batted balls are hit to the left side of the infield and fielded by 
the third baseman or shortstop. Left-handed first baseman are also advantageous 
in attempting to pick off baserunners at first, as the left-hander can 
catch and tag in one motion, often doing both at the same time, while right-handed 
first baseman must sweep their glove across their body, costing them a 
crucial fraction of a second in applying the tag.[2] The first baseman's 
mitt is similar to a catcher's mitt in that it has extra padding and has 
no individual fingers. (In shape, it is closer to a mitten than a glove.) 
It is much larger than the other infielders' gloves; it is wide, very deep, 
and it is crescent-shaped at its edges, allowing the first-baseman to use 
the mitt like a scoop in catching errant throws from other players on the 
infield. Since many throws to first base are made in great haste, the first 
baseman must be prepared to catch balls that are either high or low, as 
well as balls thrown quite a distance to either side, all while maintaining 
contact with the base (using one foot or the other). This requires a fair 
amount of agility and physical coordination. Among the most difficult plays 
a first baseman is normally required to make are the "short hop" and the 
"tag play," both of which are far easier to execute when the fielder is 
wearing the first-baseman's mitt rather than another type of glove. Every 
ground ball hit to an infielder becomes a race between the batter-runner 
and the team in the field; the fielder must catch the batted ball and throw 
it to first before the batter can reach the base. Consequently, part of 
the first baseman's job is to step toward the incoming ball and stretch 
his body so that his catching hand makes contact with it as soon as physically 
possible. Compared to catching the ball while standing passively on the 
base, this shaves a fraction of a second from the time the runner has to 
reach base. When it is thrown too low and bounces before reaching the first 
baseman, catching the ball is difficult, especially while he is in a "stretch 
position". A throw caught shortly after its bounce, that is, while the 
baseball's path, rebounding from the turf, is sharply upward, is called 
a "short hop". Since a ball that strikes the ground is always subject to 
the possibility of encountering a pebble or a rut or a spike-mark that 
sends it in a radically new direction, it is best that the first baseman 
catch the ball on the short hop by swiping or scooping the ball as close 
to the ground surface as possible. This technique also minimizes the amount 
of time required to make the putout. The second-most-difficult play for 
a first baseman is the "tag play". Whenever an infielder's throw is so 
far off the mark that the first baseman must abandon his base in order 
to catch it, the first baseman is left with only two options. In order 
to put the runner out, he must either lunge back to the base before the 
runner reaches it, or he must tag the runner before the runner reaches 
the base. A tag involves touching the runner with the ball (or with the 
gloved hand holding the ball) before the runner reaches the base. At first 
base, the typical tag play occurs when the infielder's throw is high and 
to the left of the first baseman, causing him to jump and stretch his long 
mitt to catch the ball before it sails into the dugout or the grandstand. 
The tag is made, after the catch, by swiping the mitt downward, toward 
the in-coming runner's head or shoulder, often in one fluid motion that 
is integrated with the act of catching the ball. Performed properly, the 
tag play can be spectacular to see. First basemen are typically not the 
most talented defensive players on a major-league team. Someone who has 
the agility, throwing arm, and raw speed to play another fielding position 
usually plays somewhere other than first base. Great-hitting catchers may 
play some games at first base so that they can hit in some games without 
having to absorb the rigor of catching. Bill James sees the role of first 
baseman on a continuum of defensive talent: aside from pitchers and catchers, 
difficulty of playing the position ranges in declining requirements from 
shortstop to first base as shortstop, second base, center field, third 
base, and left or right field (depending upon the ballpark), and first 
base. Anyone who can play another position on the field can play first 
base. At or near the ends of their careers, good hitters are often moved 
to first base as their speed and throwing arms deteriorate, or their teams 
become concerned with the likelihood of injury. Such players include Hall 
of Famers Johnny Bench (originally a catcher), George Brett (third baseman), 
Ernie Banks (shortstop), Rod Carew (second baseman), Al Kaline (right fielder), 
Mickey Mantle (center fielder), Mike Piazza (catcher), and Mike Schmidt 
