The FIU Panthers are the athletic teams representing Florida International 
University (FIU), an American public university located in Miami, Florida. 
The Panthers currently compete in National Collegiate Athletic Association 
(NCAA) Division I athletics as members of Conference USA. A member of Conference 
USA, FIU sponsors teams in seven men's and eleven women's NCAA sanctioned 
sports:[2] Men's Intercollegiate Sports Women's Intercollegiate Sports 
FIU's colors are navy blue and gold, and their mascot is the Panther (taken 
from the Florida panther, an endangered species endemic to the nearby Everglades), 
which is embodied by an panther named Roary the Panther. The school's original 
nickname was the "Sunblazers", but it was changed in 1987 to the "Golden 
Panthers", with the word "Golden" officially dropped beginning with the 
2010–11 school year. FIU is a member of the NCAA, participating in Division 
I, and is a member of Conference USA. FIU joined the Sun Belt Conference 
in 1998 having previously competed in the Trans America Athletic Conference 
(TAAC; now the Atlantic Sun Conference), from 1991 to 1998. They joined 
Conference USA in 2013. The FIU Athletic Department has produced scores 
of professional and Olympic athletes, including current players in Major 
League Baseball, Major League Soccer, the National Basketball Association, 
the National Football League, and in the Women's National Basketball Association. 
FIU's main rivals are the University of Miami Hurricanes and the Florida 
Atlantic University Owls.[citation needed] FIU's baseball team began play 
in 1973 as a Division II member and is one of the most successful programs 
in the school's history. The team has reached the post-season 14 times 
in school history, including nine times as a Division I program. The other 
five appearances came as a Division II program and included a Division 
II College World Series appearance. Many players from past years have been 
drafted by Major League Baseball teams and have played in the majors. FIU's 
most notable baseball alumni is Mike Lowell, former third baseman of the 
New York Yankees, Florida Marlins, and Boston Red Sox. Lowell was the 2007 
World Series MVP. Garrett Wittels finished the 2010 season with a 56-game 
hitting streak, two hits shy of the Division I record, set the FIU season 
record for hits, was nominated for the Best Male College Athlete ESPY Award 
for his 2010 performance, won Sun Belt Conference Player of the Year honors, 
and was named a NCBWA and Louisville Slugger/TPX Preseason All-American.[5][6][7][8] 
The current head coach of the FIU men's basketball team is Anthony Evans, 
who was hired on April 15, 2013. FIU men's basketball team had its lone 
NCAA Tournament appearance in the 1995 tournament under then Head Coach 
Bob Weltlich. FIU won the TAAC Basketball Tournament and in doing so earned 
an automatic bid for the NCAA Tournament. FIU was seeded #16 and played 
the #1 seeded UCLA Bruins in the first round of the West Regional, which 
was played at the Taco Bell Arena in Boise, Idaho. The Panthers lost the 
game to the Bruins by the score of 92–56, being the first tournament win 
in UCLA's successful run to the National Championship that year. FIU alumni 
who have played in the National Basketball Association include Carlos Arroyo 
and Raja Bell. The women's basketball team plays their home games on-campus 
at FIU Arena. The FIU Panthers football team competes in the NCAA FBS Football 
Bowl Subdivision (formerly known as Division I-A), the highest level in 
intercollegiate football, and is a member of the Sun Belt Conference. They 
are led by head coach Mario Cristobal and play at FIU Stadium on FIU's 
University Park campus. The team began playing in 2002 as a member of NCAA 
Division 1-AA, now known as the NCAA FCS Football Championship Subdivision. 
Three years later, the FIU Athletics Department decided to move the program 
up to Division 1-A. FIU became the fastest school to make such a move from 
a program's inception. On August 29, 2002, the program played its first 
game at home against Saint Peter's College in front of a sold out crowd 
of 17,314. FIU defeated St. Peters's by the score of 27–3. The FIU football 
team's main rival are the Florida Atlantic Owls and the University of Central 
Florida Golden Knights. Both teams play annually in a game known as the 
Shula Bowl. The game is named after former Miami Dolphins head coach Don 
Shula. FIU has won two NCAA Division II national championships in men's 
soccer. In 1982, FIU beat Southern Connecticut State by the score of 2–1, 
to win the school's first national title in any sport. Two years later 
the Panthers won their second national title beating Seattle Pacific University 
1–0. To date these are the only national titles the university has achieved 
in athletic competition. The men's soccer team competes in Conference USA. 
The team previously played in the Atlantic Soccer Conference from 2000 
to 2004 and the Trans America Athletic Conference (now known as the Atlantic 
Sun Conference) from 1991 to 1999. FIU has regularly qualified for the 
NCAA Tournament in men's soccer, both as Division I and Division II program. 
In addition to the national championships achieved by the team as a Division 
II program, the team reached the Division I championship game in 1996, 
losing to St. John's University 4–1. Recently, two new soccer fields were 
finished in the summer of 2007 on the northwest side of campus. These fields 
will complement the other two, making four soccer fields for use by both 
the men and women's soccer teams, as well as practice fields for the football 
team. The women's soccer team competes in Conference USA after previously 
being unaffiliated from 1985-1999 and a member of the Sun Belt Conference 
from 2000 through 2012. FIU's softball team competes in Conference USA 
after previously being a member of the Atlantic Sun Conference in 1998, 
Independent from 1999 to 2000, and of the Sun Belt Conference from 2001 
through 2012. The team plays its home games at Felsberg Field at FIU Softball 
Stadium. FIU's Swimming & Diving team competes in Conference USA after 
previously being a member of the Sun Belt Conference from 2003/2004 through 
2012/2013. FIU's indoor and sand volleyball teams are both under the helm 
of Rita Buck-Crockett. The indoor volleyball was established in 1974, while 
in 2013 the sand volleyball team is the newest sport for the athletic program. 
The indoor squad plays their matches at FIU Arena and the sand squad plays 
primarily on sand courts on FIU's main campus. Founded in 1989,[9] FIU 
Rugby competes in the South Independent Rugby Conference against in-state 
Florida rivals such as USF and UCF. FIU Rugby has improved since hiring 
Head Coach Ronny Suarez in late spring 2015, defeating two-time D1-AA national 
champions Central Florida in October 2015.[10] FIU Stadium was originally 
opened in 1995 as a standard track and field athletics stadium, with mobile 
seats for the football end zones and an artificial turf infield. In 2007, 
the stadium was closed and converted into a dedicated football stadium, 
with the track removed, the original turf replaced with FieldTurf, and 
permanent stands providing 20,000 seats. It was re-opened in time for the 
2008 college football season. Further improvements to FIU Stadium are ongoing, 
with a future capacity target of 45,000 seats.[citation needed] During 
FIU Stadium's reconstruction, the Panthers football team played at the 
Miami Orange Bowl in the 2007 season, and actually won the final college 
football game played at the stadium before it was demolished to make way 
for the new Marlins Park.[citation needed] FIU Arena (previously known 
as Sunblazer Arena, Golden Panther Arena, Pharmed Arena, and U.S. Century 
Bank Arena), is a 6,000-seat multi-purpose arena that opened on February 
1, 1986. The Florida International University Panthers basketball and volleyball 
teams play there. It was originally named Sunblazer Arena but was renamed 
Golden Panther Arena when FIU's athletic teams changed their nickname from 
Sunblazers to Golden Panthers in 1987. It was eventually renamed on September 
1, 2004 in honor of Pharmed Group after a $1 million USD donation was made 
to the FIU athletic department by Pharmed owners Jorge and Carlos de Cespedes. 
After Pharmed was liquidated in 2008, following the indictment of the company 
and its founders on multiple counts of health care fraud and tax evasion, 
the arena name was briefly changed to FIU Arena. Later in 2008, the name 
was changed to U.S. Century Bank Arena when the local bank of that name 
acquired naming rights. Other events such as MTV's Campus Invasion, music 
concerts, ceremonies and fairs are also held year-round at the arena. FIU 
Baseball Stadium is a baseball stadium located in the Modesto A. Maidique 
Campus of Florida International University in Miami, Florida. It is used 
as the home venue of the university's baseball team. The facility opened 
on January 26, 1996 with an FIU victory against Bethune-Cookman, 1–0. The 
baseball team played its 2000 season at the Homestead Sports Complex in 
Homestead, Florida while the facility underwent an expansion. In 2005, 
the facility also hosted the Sun Belt Conference Baseball Tournament.[citation 
