Flatbush is a neighborhood in the New York City borough of Brooklyn. Founded 
in 1651 by Dutch colonists, the neighborhood, which consists of several 
subsections, had a population of 110,875 as of the 2010 United States Census. 
By the 2010s, the area was quickly gentrifying. Flatbush was a town prior 
to being incorporated into the City of Brooklyn, and its former border 
runs through the Brooklyn Botanic Garden. Generally, the township was larger 
than what is considered Flatbush today by the residents of Brooklyn. The 
modern neighborhood includes or borders several institutions of note, including 
Prospect Park and Brooklyn College. The name Flatbush is a calque of the 
Dutch language Vlacke bos (vlacke or vlak, meaning "flat"; "Flatbush" meaning 
"flat woodland" or "wooded plain"),[2][3] so named from woods that grew 
on the flat country.[4] Flatbush was originally chartered as the Dutch 
Nieuw Nederland colony town of Midwout in 1651. Both names were used in 
the Dutch era, and Midwood was an alternative name for Flatbush into the 
early 20th century. In a reversal, Midwood, now the area immediately south 
of Brooklyn College, is often alternatively called "Flatbush,"[5] especially 
among Orthodox Jews. Midwood's residents predominately feature a mix of 
the latter and Irish Americans. Flatbush and the five other towns of what 
was to become Kings County, were surrendered to the English in 1664. The 
town was the county seat for Kings County and was a center of life for 
what is now called Brooklyn. The compact center of the village of Flatbush 
was at the intersection of what are now Flatbush and Church avenues, where 
we still find an old Dutch Reformed Church and Erasmus Hall, the oldest 
high school in New York City. Flatbush played a key role in the American 
Revolution. Flatbush was nearby where significant skirmishes and battles 
of the Battle of Long Island took place. As Kings County was settled largely 
by the Dutch, and as the Dutch were prominent in the slave trade, the area 
was somewhat sympathetic to the British side of the American Revolutionary 
War at the beginning of the conflict. Kings County at the time had the 
highest concentration of slaves north of the Mason–Dixon line – almost 
one-third of the total population for the county were slaves. When a Loyalist 
Governor of Virginia supported freedom for slaves who supported and fought 
on the British side, landowners in Brooklyn were concerned that a full 
conflict between the Colonies and the British would result in loss of their 
critical source of labor.[6] Loyalist residents of Flatbush included David 
Mathews, Mayor of New York City, who lived at what is now the intersection 
of Flatbush and Parkside avenues.[7] Flatbush residents maintained their 
loyalist sympathies: the King's Arms, for example, appeared in the town's 
inn for a half-century after the conclusion of the conflict.[8] The influence 
of Dutch merchant and farming families remained strong in the area until 
after consolidation into the City of Greater New York in 1898, after which 
the development of Flatbush as a suburb, and then an integral part of the 
larger city, proceeded apace. Before it was incorporated into the City 
of Brooklyn in 1894, Flatbush described both the Town of Flatbush, incorporating 
a large swath of central Kings County extending east to the Queens County 
border, and the Village of Flatbush, formerly the heart of the current 
community. Many of the remaining early Dutch structures are in the Flatlands 
and Marine Park neighborhoods. Flatbush maintained a kind of distance from 
the rest of Brooklyn and New York, but the emergence of the subway in the 
1920s connected it to surrounding areas in an unprecedented way.[9] In 
the first half of the 20th century, Flatbush had a sizable population of 
Irish-Americans, Italian-Americans and Jews. Much as it is today, it was 
a working-class neighborhood. A significant portion of Flatbush residents 
closely followed the Brooklyn Dodgers, which at the time were not only 
the team of Brooklyn but also of Flatbush in particular. Dodgers centerfielder 
Duke Snider was known as “the Duke of Flatbush”. By 1958, however, the 
Dodgers left Brooklyn, and Ebbets Field eventually was torn down. Due to 
shifting neighborhood boundaries, Ebbets Field today technically would 
be in Crown Heights, as the ballpark was located just north of Empire Boulevard. 
During the 1970s and early 1980s, Flatbush experienced a shift in demographics 
as it went from being a mostly Irish, Italian and Jewish community to a 
mostly Caribbean community. While most sections of Flatbush were working 
class before the demographic shift, there were a few affluent areas. Prospect 
Park South had a sizable number of more affluent homeowners, and more than 
a few doctors resided on a stretch of Parkside Avenue immediately adjacent 
to Prospect Park. By the mid-1980s, however, there were a number of abandoned 
or semi-abandoned buildings in the community, with a number of apartment 
houses falling into a state of disrepair. Many of the affluent residents 
left Flatbush and were replaced by lower income immigrant residents. In 
February 2016, Flatbush was one of four neighborhoods featured in an article 
in The New York Times about "New York’s Next Hot Neighborhoods".[10] The 
Flatbush Post Office is assigned ZIP code 11226, but the area understood 
as included in Flatbush extends into other postal zones, including 11210 
and 11230. Except for the 2010 total, the following are U.S. Census Bureau 
figures for the principal ZIP code area of Flatbush, 11226. They exclude 
the portions of Flatbush that extend into other ZIP code areas.[1] While 
the Flatbush ZIP code of 11226 is today is predominantly African American 
and West Indian, there are sizable numbers of Caucasians, Latinos and Indian 
Americans living within its borders. A majority of residents are working 
class, but there also are middle-class and wealthier residents who call 
Flatbush home. The primary commercial strips are Flatbush, Church, and 
Nostrand Avenues, with Coney Island Avenue also emerging as a major strip. 
One can find Caribbean food, Soul food, Chinese, Mexican and South Asian 
restaurants. Most of the businesses are small, with some larger businesses 
also present. Flatbush housing varies in character. It generally features 
apartment buildings, though some rowhouses also are present. Older, Victorian-style 
housing can be found in Prospect Park South, and brownstones are in Prospect 
Lefferts Gardens. In 2010 the population of Flatbush, regardless of ZIP 
code, was 110,875.[11] The Flatbush community has been receiving an influx 
of immigrants from the Caribbean, mostly from Guyana, Haiti, Trinidad and 
Tobago, Jamaica, Grenada, Barbados, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the 
Grenadines, Dominica, Antigua and Barbuda, Saint Kitts and Nevis and Belize,[citation 
needed] since the 1980s, as well as immigrants from South Asia, primarily 
India, Pakistan and Bangladesh and African countries like Ghana, Zimbabwe, 
Nigeria, and Kenya. Haitians are the largest ethnic group in Flatbush. 
Prior to the arrival of these groups, the Flatbush community had already 
been diverse, with many Italian-Americans, Irish-Americans, African-Americans 
and Jewish-Americans. Flatbush is patrolled by the NYPD's 67th and 70th 
Precincts.[12][13] At the 2000 U.S. Census, there were 37,132 housing units 
with 106,154 people living in ZIP code 11226. Of those 79.8% were Black 
or African American, 14% were Hispanic or Latino, 6.5% were White, 2.8% 
were Asian, 0.4% Native American, 5.7% were some other race and 4.9% were 
two or more races. Of the population 25 and older 64.5% are High School 
graduates or higher and 12.4% have a Bachelor's degree or higher. 39.9% 
speak a language other than English at home. The median family income in 
ZIP code 11226 in 1999 was $30,985, the median per capita income was $13,052. 
23.2% of residents in this area were below the poverty level. The former 
town of Flatbush coincided roughly with Brooklyn Community Board 14, which 
runs north-south from Prospect Park to Kings Highway. The boundaries of 
the neighborhood today are not precisely defined. Flatbush includes the 
southernmost portion of Prospect Park. The neighborhoods of Flatbush extend 
south from the old Brooklyn City Line north of the southern edges of Prospect 
Park, the Brooklyn Botanic Garden and Empire Boulevard. The southern border 
of Flatbush neighborhoods is approximately on the line of the Long Island 
Rail Road's Bay Ridge Branch, which runs to the south of Avenue H, the 
campus of Brooklyn College, and "The Junction" where Flatbush and Nostrand 
Avenues intersect. Flatbush's eastern border is roughly around New York 
Avenue, while its western border is Coney Island Avenue. Neighborhoods 
within Flatbush include the planned communities of Prospect Park South, 
the Beverley Squares (Beverley Square East and Beverley Square West), Prospect 
Lefferts Gardens, Ditmas Park, Fiske Terrace, Victorian Flatbush, and Albemarle-Kenmore 
Terrace. Bordering Flatbush on the north are the community of Crown Heights 
and the former neighborhood of Pigtown. On the east, within the old town 
of Flatbush, is East Flatbush, on the west are Kensington and Parkville 
(formerly Greenfield), and on the south is Midwood. Many consider Midwood 
to be a part of Flatbush, but historically it was part of the neighboring 
former towns of New Utrecht, Gravesend and Flatlands. Well-known institutions 
within Flatbush include Erasmus Hall High School, the Parade Grounds, the 
Flatbush Dutch Reformed Church, Brooklyn College, and Ebbets Field (demolished 
in 1960), the last Brooklyn home of the Brooklyn Dodgers baseball team. 
Due to imprecisely defined, shifting boundaries, the Ebbets Field site 
would be considered today by some to be in Crown Heights. The Kings Theatre 
originally opened in 1929. It was closed and vacated in 1977,[14] but reopened 
as a live show venue in February 2015 after extensive renovations.[15] 
The bustling business district and neighborhoods of Flatbush are supported 
by several important community organizations. The Flatbush Avenue Business 
Improvement District[16] provides services to keep Flatbush Avenue from 
Parkside Avenue to Cortelyou Road clean, safe and profitable for its businesses. 
Every year, the Flatbush BID organizes the Flatbush Avenue Street Fair,[17] 
an event that celebrates the cultures of the community. The Flatbush Development 
Corporation] (FDC)[18] is a nonprofit that hosts events and programs that 
are aimed to support the "vitality, diversity and quality of life" in the 
Flatbush community. CAMBA, Inc. is a Flatbush-based nonprofit that since 
1977 has provided housing, youth education and development, legal services 
and healthcare services to residents of Flatbush and beyond. Flatbush is 
well served by public transportation. On the New York City Subway, the 
BMT Brighton Line (B Q trains) has a number of stops within the community. 
The stretch of stations from Prospect Park to Avenue H is in Flatbush. 
All stations of the IRT Nostrand Avenue Line (2 5 trains) except President 
Street are also within Flatbush. The terminal Flatbush Avenue – Brooklyn 
College station is about one block north of Brooklyn College and one block 
north of the Junction Mall.[19] The B6, B8, B35, B41, B44, B49, Q35 are 
MTA Regional Bus Operations routes that serve the neighborhood; some of 
them also have limited-stop variants. In addition, the B103, a wholly limited-stop 
bus, runs through Flatbush.[20] The major roadways through Flatbush include 
Flatbush Avenue, Ocean Avenue and Ocean Parkway, which are North-South 
corridors, and Kings Highway, Church Avenue and Caton Avenue, which are 
East-West corridors. Flatbush is home to a number of elementary and intermediate 
schools, as well as the Erasmus Hall High School campus. Founded in 1786, 
it has a long list of famous alumni. Its building has been expanded numerous 
times, and is notable for its relatively unique architecture. Since 1994, 
the building has been divided internally into five smaller high schools, 
each concentrating on a different academic area. Brooklyn College (one 
of the four-year colleges in the City University of New York system) is 
shared between the neighborhoods of Flatbush and Midwood.[21] Several Jewish 
yeshivas are within the neighborhood, including Mir Yeshiva, Yeshiva Rabbi 
Chaim Berlin, and Yeshiva Torah Vodaas. Combined, they form an important 
center of Jewish learning.[22] Notable residents of Flatbush have included: 
