Flood v. Kuhn, 407 U.S. 258 (1972), was a United States Supreme Court decision 
upholding, by a 5–3 margin, the antitrust exemption first granted to Major 
League Baseball (MLB) in Federal Baseball Club v. National League. It arose 
from a challenge by St. Louis Cardinals' outfielder Curt Flood when he 
refused to be traded to the Philadelphia Phillies after the 1969 season. 
He sought injunctive relief from the reserve clause, which prevented him 
from negotiating with another team for a year after his contract expired. 
Named as initial respondents were baseball commissioner Bowie Kuhn, MLB 
and all of its then-24 member clubs. Although the Court ruled in baseball's 
favor 5–3, it admitted the original grounds for the antitrust exemption 
were tenuous at best, that baseball was indeed interstate commerce for 
purposes of the act and the exemption was an "anomaly"[1] it had explicitly 
refused to extend to other professional sports or entertainment. That admission 
set in motion events which ultimately led to an arbitrator's ruling nullifying 
the reserve clause and opening the door for free agency in baseball and 
other sports. The opinion has been criticized in several ways. It is seen 
by some as an overly strict and reflexive reliance on the legal doctrine 
of stare decisis[2] that made an earlier mistake "uncorrectable".[3] Even 
the text of the decision itself, mainly a seven-page introductory encomium 
to the game and its history by Justice Harry Blackmun that included a lengthy 
listing of baseball greats, came in for criticism.[4] Some of the other 
justices, and Court observers, felt it was inappropriate for a judicial 
opinion. At the time of his later retirement and death, Blackmun would 
be remembered for it as much as Roe v. Wade.[5] The reserve clause had 
been part of baseball contracts since the game's early days. The National 
League had begun using it in the late 19th century; the American League 
began using it in 1903 as part of the truce between the two that created 
MLB.[6] Team owners realized that if players could go from team to team 
seeking higher pay, salaries of all players, not just stars, would go up. 
They feared some teams might have to fold under such competitive pressure, 
and included the reserve clause, so called since a team reserved rights 
to a player for a year after the contract expired, to limit free agency. 
Such collusion in other industries had been ruled to be restraint of trade 
in violation of the Sherman Antitrust Act. Players had two options to resist 
it and become free agents. They could ask to be released from their contracts 
(which they rarely were), or hold out and refuse to report until the year 
was up, forfeiting their pay in the process. While star players were able 
to exercise some leverage this way, most who held out were often traded 
to other teams and wound up making less money. A suit was brought in the 
1920s, Federal Baseball Club v. National League (259 U.S. 200 (1922)), 
by the owner of the defunct Baltimore Terrapins Federal League team who 
accused the major leagues of conspiring to crush MLB's one remaining competitor. 
Instead, Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes ruled that baseball, the only professional 
team sport in the country at the time enjoying wide interest, was exempt 
since it was not interstate commerce and teams' travel to games in other 
states was merely "incidental" to MLB's main business, the staging of baseball 
games. Although the reserve clause was not part of the case, the exemption 
meant that the Supreme Court or Congress would have had to say otherwise 
before it could be legally voided.[7] Two possible challenges in the early 
1950s failed. Former New York Giants outfielder Danny Gardella sued after 
baseball teams blacklisted him following his brief stint in the Mexican 
League. An appeals court overturned an initial verdict for baseball, and 
commissioner Happy Chandler decided to settle rather than risk the overturning 
of Federal Baseball Club.[8] Shortly afterwards, George Earl Toolson, a 
pitcher in the New York Yankees' farm system, refused to report to a new 
minor league team when sent down. The ensuing decision, Toolson v. New 
York Yankees (346 U.S. 356 (1953)), let the exemption stand citing lack 
of congressional interest in repealing it.[9] Justices Harold Hitz Burton 
and Stanley Forman Reed dissented, saying baseball as it was then played 
met the definition of interstate commerce.[10] A few years later, when 
the Court declined to extend the antitrust exemption to professional football 
in Radovich v. National Football League (352 U.S. 445 (1957)), it raised 
some hopes that another challenge to might succeed when it admitted "were 
we considering the question of baseball for the first time upon a clean 
slate we would have no doubts" that it was interstate commerce.[11] 1971's 
Haywood v. National Basketball Association (401 U.S. 1204 (1971)), an emergency 
appeal issued by Justice William O. Douglas, similarly denied that exemption 
to professional basketball and noted "the decision in this suit would be 
similar to the one on baseball's reserve clause which our decisions exempting 
baseball from the antitrust laws have foreclosed".[12] In 1969, Rick Barry 
of the NBA's San Francisco Warriors became the first major-league professional 
athlete to challenge the reserve clause in court. He wanted to play for 
the Oakland Oaks of the rival American Basketball Association (ABA), since 
his father-in-law was the team's coach. His challenge was unsuccessful, 
but after sitting out a year he signed with the Oaks anyway, the first 
NBA star to change leagues during the rivalry between them.[13] In 1956, 
at the age of 18, Flood had, without an agent or attorney to represent 
or advise him, signed his first professional baseball contract with the 
Cincinnati Reds. Two years later he was traded to the St. Louis Cardinals 
and became one of the team's stars. He batted .300 in six of the next 12 
seasons, earned seven Gold Glove awards (including one for an error-free 
1966 season), and played in three World Series, two of which the Cardinals 
won.[14] In October 1969, after the season had ended, Flood, then one of 
the Cardinals' captains, learned from a reporter[citation needed] that 
he had been traded to the Philadelphia Phillies along with, and for, several 
other players. He had not been consulted about this beforehand, and did 
not want to play for the poorly performing Phillies in Philadelphia before 
fans the African-American Flood believed were racist. Like many players, 
he had long chafed at the reserve clause,[15] and wrote to Kuhn shortly 
before Christmas asking to be declared a free agent: "I do not feel I am 
a piece of property to be bought and sold irrespective of my wishes", he 
said. "I believe I have the right to consider offers from other clubs before 
making any decision." Kuhn denied the request, reminding Flood he was contractually 
obligated to play for the Phillies. In January 1970, Flood brought suit 
in New York, where MLB was headquartered, seeking $1 million in damages 
and injunctive relief from the reserve clause, which his legal arguments 
controversially compared to slavery. He sat out that year's baseball season, 
foregoing $100,000 in salary, and signed with the Washington Senators for 
more money in 1971, only to leave the team early in the season when he 
was not playing well. He never played again.[16] The Major League Baseball 
Players Association's team representatives voted unanimously to support 
Flood.[17] His motion for a preliminary injunction was denied, with Judge 
Irving Ben Cooper of the Southern District of New York citing the sport's 
cultural importance in American life: "The game is on higher ground; it 
behooves every one to keep it there."[18] He allowed Flood an early trial, 
which took place in May and June of that year. No active-duty players testified 
on his behalf, but his witnesses included Jackie Robinson, Hank Greenberg 
and maverick owner Bill Veeck. Baseball's lawyers argued the clause was 
essential to maintain the sport. Cooper ultimately ruled for Major League 
Baseball, stating that "the preponderance of credible proof does not favor 
elimination of the reserve clause." Even Flood's witnesses, he noted, had 
been ambivalent, regarding some version of it as beneficial to the sport.[19] 
Flood appealed the case to the Second Circuit, which affirmed Cooper's 
decision on the basis of Federal Baseball.[20] Judge Leonard P. Moore added 
that he thought it unlikely the Supreme Court would overturn that decision.[21] 
The court granted certiorari later that year.[22] Former justice Arthur 
Goldberg returned to argue Flood's case before some of his former colleagues. 
Kuhn, a onetime star litigator, considered arguing the case himself, but 
ultimately deferred to Paul Porter and Louis Hoynes.[23] At oral arguments 
on March 20, 1972, Goldberg reiterated Flood's arguments about the harm 
done to players by the reserve system. Baseball's lawyers responded to 
them, but primarily invoked the game's place in American culture and the 
greater good done it by the reserve system. Justice Lewis Powell recused 
himself from the case because he owned stock in Anheuser-Busch, which owned 
the Cardinals. By a 5–3 margin, the Court upheld the Federal Baseball and 
Toolson precedents. One justice, William O. Douglas, who had been part 
of the majority in the latter case, dissented this time and expressed his 
regret. Even Harry Blackmun's majority opinion conceded that baseball was 
as much interstate commerce as the other professional sports to which the 
Court had refused to extend the antitrust exemption. Blackmun began the 
opinion with Section I, "The Game", a prologue recounting the history of 
baseball, concluding with a detailed litany of events and finally the names 
of 83 legendary players from the late 19th to mid-20th centuries, beginning 
with Ty Cobb and Babe Ruth and ending with Jimmie Foxx and Lefty Grove. 
"The list seems endless", Blackmun wrote. In its entirety Section I takes 
up four pages of the United States Reports.[24] In the footnotes, he quoted 
poetry by Ernest Thayer on "Casey at the Bat" and allowed of his list: 
"These are names only from earlier years. By mentioning some, one risks 
unintended omission of others equally celebrated."[25] After two further 
sections recounting the facts of the case, the lower courts' decisions 
and the Court's previous jurisprudence, Blackmun considered the legal issues 
at hand. He noted that the Federal Baseball court had not been persuaded 
by other case law at the time ruling that traveling vaudeville companies 
were engaged in interstate commerce and that other companies use of the 
mail and rail shipments had so qualified. Federal Baseball had also been 
cited as precedent in later cases without complaint.[26] In later cases, 
brought in the 1950s involving other organized sports and similar activities, 
the Court had refused to exempt them and noted, as it did when asked to 
end baseball's exemption outright in Toolson, Congress's relative inactivity 
on the issue. Since then, Blackmun said, there had been some bills, but 
all intended to extend the exemption to other sports and none to repeal 
it entirely. "In view of all this", he began section V, "it seems appropriate 
now to say that: Professional baseball is a business and engaged in interstate 
commerce". Invoking Radovich, he admitted that "the slate is not clean. 
Indeed it has not been clean for half a century." The antitrust exemption 
created in Federal Baseball and upheld in Toolson was "an aberration confined 
to baseball". Nevertheless, there seemed to be little desire to end or 
weaken it, and given the problems he thought a judicial turnabout would 
cause for baseball, he cited the legal doctrine of stare decisis in upholding 
the previous rulings, saying "Under these circumstances, there is merit 
in consistency even though some might claim that beneath that consistency 
is a layer of inconsistency."[27] Justice Byron White signed the opinion, 
but noted he did not concur in Part I. "I concur in all but Part I", noted 
Chief Justice Warren Burger, as well. He did, however, say in his short 
concurring opinion that he felt Toolson had been wrongly decided and agreed 
with some other points William O. Douglas made in his dissent.[28] Douglas 
called Federal Baseball a "derelict in the stream of law that we, its creator, 
should remove. Only a romantic view of a rather dismal business account 
over the last 50 years would keep that derelict in midstream." He had come 
to regret having joined the majority in Toolson.[29] He invoked three of 
the names on Blackmun's list as he agreed with Flood that the reserve clause 
unlawfully benefited the owners at players' expense: Baseball is today 
big business that is packaged with beer, with broadcasting, and with other 
industries. The beneficiaries of the Federal Baseball Club decision are 
not the Babe Ruths, Ty Cobbs, and Lou Gehrigs. The owners, whose records 
many say reveal a proclivity for predatory practices, do not come to us 
with equities. The equities are with the victims of the reserve clause. 
I use the word "victims" in the Sherman Act sense, since a contract which 
forbids anyone to practice his calling is commonly called an unreasonable 
restraint of trade.[29] If a case challenging the antitrust exemption were 
coming before the Court for the first time, he said, he had no doubt he 
and his brother justices would have ruled differently. "The unbroken silence 
of Congress should not prevent us from correcting our own mistakes", he 
concluded.[29] William Brennan joined his opinion. Brennan also joined 
Thurgood Marshall's dissent, a longer review of the case in which he came 
to the same conclusions as Douglas, expressed in more measured language: 
Has Congress acquiesced in our decisions in Federal Baseball Club and Toolson? 
I think not. Had the Court been consistent and treated all sports in the 
same way baseball was treated, Congress might have become concerned enough 
to take action. But, the Court was inconsistent, and baseball was isolated 
and distinguished from all other sports. In Toolson the Court refused to 
act because Congress had been silent. But the Court may have read too much 
into this legislative inaction.Americans love baseball as they love all 
sports. Perhaps we become so enamored of athletics that we assume that 
they are foremost in the minds of legislators as well as fans. We must 
not forget, however, that there are only some 600 major league baseball 
players. Whatever muscle they might have been able to muster by combining 
forces with other athletes has been greatly impaired by the manner in which 
this Court has isolated them. It is this Court that has made them impotent, 
and this Court should correct its error ... Baseball should be covered 
by the antitrust laws beginning with this case and henceforth, unless Congress 
decides otherwise.[30] Major League Baseball and its owners praised the 
decision, as did many of their supporters in the media. The players and 
some of their supporters, such as sportswriter Red Smith, criticized it. 
In legal circles, Blackmun's homage to baseball was criticized and ridiculed. 
The decision is often remembered today as paving the way for free agency 
in baseball. However, it did so, according to Bill James, only by showing 
them they could not rely on the Courts to strike down the antitrust exemption 
and the reserve clause along with it.[31] But the effort by a player of 
Flood's stature did galvanize the players, and according to Marvin Miller 
it made the general public aware of the reserve clause.[32] Labor law proved 
a more fruitful opportunity for the invalidating of the reserve clause. 
The next year the National Labor Relations Board voted that baseball came 
under its jurisdiction, and that led to the Seitz decision three years 
later that Andy Messersmith and Dave McNally were free agents after they 
had played out a year without signing new contracts. That event is considered 
the true beginning of baseball free agency. Neither Congress nor any court 
has completely overturned baseball's antitrust exemption. Some bills that 
would do so were named the Curt Flood Act in his honor and later, memory. 
In 1998, President Bill Clinton signed one into law making baseball's employment 
practices subject to antitrust law,[33] a largely moot point since by then 
free agency was well established (minor league players, however, remain 
bound to their parent clubs[4]). Flood himself was remembered as much for 
this case as for his playing career when he died in 1997. He has not been 
inducted into the Hall of Fame despite his accomplished career and effect 
on the game.[34] Legal commentators have criticized the decision as not 
just a mistake but a compounding of the earlier mistake made in Federal 
Baseball and continued in Toolson. According to antitrust expert Kevin 
McDonald of Jones Day, Flood v. Kuhn is a "principle of antitrust law that 
is (1) indefensible as a matter of fact or policy, and (2) an embarrassment 
to the Court."[35] Holmes' original decision has been misread by both later 
cases to imply a divination of congressional intent to exclude baseball 
and a prescription for congressional action to remedy that, he argues: 
"Just as Toolson blamed Holmes for a problem (an express statutory exemption) 
that he did not create, Flood blamed him for insisting on a solution (Congressional 
action) that he did not mention."[36] Yale law professor William Eskridge, 
a harsh critic of the decision, has called it "the most frequently criticized 
example of excessively strict stare decisis."[2] It is often counterpointed 
to the Court's decision in the 1940 trust case Helvering v. Hallock,[37] 
where Justice Felix Frankfurter explicitly rejected the idea, embraced 
by Blackmun in Flood, that the Court should consider congressional inaction 
as a tacit statement of acquiescence with one of its existing holdings, 
however questionable they may have seemed.[38] Eskridge notes that there 
are many reasons besides express lack of intent that would forestall Congressional 
action to remedy a flawed Court decision.[39] Even years after his death, 
Blackmun's paean to the game was still criticized as "rambling and syrupy"[40] 
and "juvenile".[4] Roger Ian Abrams at Northeastern University School of 
Law, who found that Blackmun had likely used Lawrence Ritter's 1966 book 
The Glory of Their Times as his primary source,[6] showed how the careers 
of many of the players he listed had been impacted, often adversely, by 
the reserve system.[41] Blackmun himself acknowledged in 1987, that his 
colleagues on the Court had, as Burger and Douglas's opinions suggest, 
seen it as "beneath the dignity of the Court". But he expressed no regrets,[42] 
save the discovery by his clerks that, after the decision had issued, he 
had forgotten Mel Ott. In his personal copy of the decision he penciled 
Ott's name in.[43] Condemnation has not been universal. One commentator 
has defended it as a "trace of resistance to the hyperrationality of contemporary 
legal discourse".[44] "If Flood is seen, however, as a decision grounded 
in a desire to adopt sound legal rules for sports leagues, Part I makes 
eminent sense", says Illinois law professor Stephen F. Ross. He goes on 
to read the decision as doing exactly that, countering critics who charge 
it with being an overly strict application of stare decisis by showing 
how Blackmun and the other majority justices could reasonably, at that 
time, have been convinced that "contemporary antitrust doctrines would 
condemn many arrangements among owners that are arguably essential to baseball".[45] 
Flynn, Neil F. – "Baseball's Reserve System: The Case and Trial of Curt 
