Floyd George Giebell (December 10, 1909 – April 28, 2004) was an American 
Major League Baseball player who is best remembered as the pitcher who 
shut out Bob Feller and the Cleveland Indians in his third career start 
to clinch the 1940 American League pennant for the Detroit Tigers over 
the Indians. Born in Pennsboro, West Virginia, Giebell attended Salem International 
University and played for the Tigers briefly in 1939 but only pitched 15⅓ 
innings in relief before being sent to the Toledo Mud Hens, where he pitched 
most of the 1939 season. In September 1940, Giebell was brought back up 
to the major leagues and had two outstanding starts during the 1940 pennant 
drive. Giebel pitched a pair of complete game victories and gave up only 
two runs in 18 innings for an earned run average of 1.00. Giebell got his 
first start on September 19, 1940 with Tigers and Indians tied for first 
place. Giebell, who had just been called up from Buffalo where he went 
15–16, pitched a complete game, giving up only two runs as the Tigers beat 
the Philadelphia Athletics 13–2. On September 27, 1940, the Tigers needed 
one more win to clinch the pennant. With 27 game winner Bob Feller scheduled 
to pitch for the Indians, Detroit manager Del Baker decided to start Giebell 
against Feller rather than "waste" his aces Bobo Newsom or Schoolboy Rowe. 
Time magazine described Giebell at the time as "a gawky stringbean" — Giebell 
was 6 ft 2 1⁄2 in (1.89 m) and 172 pounds (78 kg) —who "looked like a sacrificial 
lamb as he ambled out to the mound." But, as Time reported after the game, 
Giebell was "no lamb" that day. Instead, "[w]ith cunning change of pace 
and the control of an oldtimer, the green-as-grass rookie shut out the 
Indians 2-to-0." [1] Feller gave up only 3 hits for the day, but one of 
them was a 2-run wind-blown home run by Rudy York. That was all the Tigers 
needed thanks to Giebell's pitching that day. The setting in Cleveland 
that day was raucous. The Indians had built a reputation as the "Cleveland 
Crybabies" for their whining about manager Ossie Vitt, and had been subjected 
to chants of "Cleveland Crybabies", "Boohoo Indians" and "papeese" (plural 
of papoose) when they played in Detroit. Tiger fans threw baby bottles 
on the field during the game, decorated the dugout with diapers, and pushed 
a baby carriage along the dugout roof during the game. [2] The Indians 
fans turned out in force, 45,000 strong, and armed "with eggs, eggplants, 
cauliflowers, fruit." As soon as the Tigers went on the field they were 
pelted from the stands. By the time Rudy York hit one of Feller's pitches 
for a two-run home run, Time reported that the field "looked like a vegetable 
plate." [3] The umpire called time twice, and Indians manager Ossie Vitt 
begged the fans to stop. When the umpire made an announcement threatening 
a forfeit, an immediate fruit barrage ensued. [4] Hank Greenberg was drilled 
with a tomato as he ran after a flyball. At one point, an entire bushel 
basket of tomatoes dropped from the upper grandstand into the Tiger bullpen, 
barely missing Tigers ace Schoolboy Rowe, but making a direct hit on Detroit 
catcher Birdie Tebbetts, knocking Tebbetts unconscious." [5] The Cleveland 
police quickly apprehended the offender, Armen Guerra, and took him to 
the Detroit clubhouse. Tebbetts, now conscious, beat up Guerra while the 
cops looked the other way. Guerra, who earlier had dropped the crate on 
Tebbets, filed criminal assault charges, but Tebbets was acquitted. Giebell 
remained calm through the commotion in Cleveland, and shutout the Indians 
for 9 innings in one of the great "David vs. Goliath" moments in baseball. 
The pennant-clinching win over Feller was only the third of Giebell's career, 
but it proved to be his last. Having played in only three games, he was 
not eligible to play in the 1940 World Series. Giebell pitched briefly 
for the Tigers in 1941 but his ERA soared from 1.00 to 6.03. Giebell was 
sent back to the minor leagues. He pitched for Buffalo in 1941 and 1942 
and then served in the military for three years during World War II. He 
returned to baseball following the war, but never made it out of the minor 
leagues. He retired in 1948. Over his three-year major league career, Giebell 
was 3–1 in 28 games (four as a starter) with a 3.99 earned run average 
in 67-2/3 innings. According to his obituary, Gieball worked in the Quality 
Control Labs of Weirton Steel until his retirement. Giebel died in 2004 
at age 94 in Wilkesboro, North Carolina. According to published accounts, 
Giebell still had a silver tray that had been signed by all the Detroit 
