Flushing is a neighborhood in the north-eastern part of the New York City 
borough of Queens, in the United States. While much of the village is residential, 
Downtown Flushing, centered on the northern end of Main Street, is a large 
commercial and retail area and is the fourth largest central business district 
in New York City.[3][4] Flushing's diversity is reflected by the numerous 
ethnic groups that reside there, including people of Asian, Hispanic, Middle 
Eastern, European, and African American ancestry. It is part of the Fifth 
Congressional District, which encompasses the entire northeastern shore 
of Queens County, and extends into neighboring Nassau County. Flushing 
is served by five railroad stations on the Long Island Rail Road Port Washington 
Branch, as well as the New York City Subway's IRT Flushing Line (7 <7> trains), 
which has its terminus at Main Street. The intersection of Main Street 
and Roosevelt Avenue is the third busiest intersection in New York City, 
behind Times and Herald Squares.[5] Flushing is part of Queens Community 
Board 7[6] and is bounded by Flushing Meadows–Corona Park to the west, 
Utopia Parkway to the east, the Long Island Expressway to the south, and 
Willets Point Boulevard to the north. ZIP codes beginning with 113 are 
administered from a sectional center at Flushing Post Office. The 113-prefixed 
area extends west into Jackson Heights, southwest into Ridgewood, south 
into Forest Hills, and east into Little Neck. In 1645, Flushing was established 
by the Dutch on the eastern bank of Flushing Creek under charter of the 
Dutch West India Company and was part of the New Netherland colony. The 
settlement was named after the city of Vlissingen, in the southwestern 
Netherlands, the main port of the company. However, by 1657, the residents 
called the place "Vlissing." Eventually, "Flushing," the British name for 
the Dutch city of Vlissingen was used. In its early days, Flushing was 
inhabited by English colonists, among them a farmer named John Bowne, who 
defied a prohibition imposed by New Amsterdam Director-General Peter Stuyvesant 
on harboring Quakers, by allowing Quaker meetings in his home. The Flushing 
Remonstrance, signed in Flushing on December 27, 1657, protested religious 
persecution and eventually led to the decision by the Dutch West India 
Company to allow Quakers and others to worship freely.[7] As such, Flushing 
is claimed to be a birthplace of religious freedom in the new world.[8] 
Landmarks remaining from the Dutch period in Flushing include the John 
Bowne House on Bowne Street and the Old Quaker Meeting House on Northern 
Boulevard. In 1664, the English took control of New Amsterdam, ending Dutch 
control of the colony, and renamed it the Province of New York. When Queens 
County was established in 1683, the "Town of Flushing" was one of the original 
five towns which comprised the county.[9] Many historical references to 
Flushing are to this town, bounded from Newtown on the west by Flushing 
Creek (now Flushing River), from Jamaica on the south by the watershed, 
and from Hempstead on the east by what later became the Nassau County line. 
The town was dissolved in 1898 when Queens became a borough of New York 
City, and the term "Flushing" today usually refers to a much smaller area, 
for example the former Village of Flushing. Flushing was the site of the 
first commercial tree nurseries in North America, the most prominent being 
the Prince, Bloodgood, and Parsons nurseries. Much of the northern section 
of Kissena Park, former site of the Parsons nursery, still contains a wide 
variety of exotic trees. The naming of streets intersecting Kissena Boulevard 
on its way toward Kissena Park celebrates this fact (Ash Avenue, Beech, 
Cherry ...Poplar, Quince, Rose). Flushing also supplied trees to the Greensward 
project, now known as Central Park in Manhattan. During the American Revolution, 
Flushing, along with most settlements in present-day Queens County, favored 
the British and quartered British troops, though one battalion of Scottish 
Highlanders is known to have been stationed at Flushing during the war. 
Following the Battle of Long Island, Nathan Hale, an officer in the Continental 
Army, was apprehended near Flushing Bay while on what was probably an intelligence 
gathering mission and was later hanged. The 1785 Kingsland Homestead, originally 
the residence of a wealthy Quaker merchant, now serves as the home of the 
Queens Historical Society.[10] During the 19th century, as New York City 
continued to grow in population and economic vitality, so did Flushing. 
Its proximity to Manhattan was critical in its transformation into a fashionable 
residential area. On April 15, 1837, the Village of Flushing was incorporated 
within the Town of Flushing.[11] By the mid-1860s, Queens County had 30,429 
residents. Flushing's growth continued with two new villages incorporating: 
College Point in 1867, and Whitestone in 1868. In 1898, although opposed 
to the proposal, the Town of Flushing (along with two other towns of Queens 
County) was consolidated into the City of New York to form the new Borough 
of Queens. All towns, villages, and cities within the new borough were 
dissolved. Local farmland continued to be subdivided and developed transforming 
Flushing into a densely populated neighborhood of New York City. The continued 
construction of bridges over the Flushing River and the development of 
other roads increased the volume of vehicular traffic into Flushing. In 
1909, the construction of the Queensboro Bridge (also known as the 59th 
Street Bridge) over the East River connected Queens County to midtown Manhattan.[12] 
The introduction of rail road service to Manhattan in 1910 by the Long 
Island Rail Road Port Washington Branch and in 1928 by the New York City 
Subway's IRT Flushing Line (7 <7> trains) hastened the continued transformation 
of Flushing to a commuter suburb and commercial center. Due to increased 
traffic, a main roadway through Flushing named Broadway was widened and 
renamed Northern Boulevard.[citation needed] Flushing was a forerunner 
of Hollywood, when the young American film industry was still based on 
the U.S. East Coast and Chicago. Decades later, the RKO Keith's movie palace 
would host vaudeville acts and appearances by the likes of Mickey Rooney, 
The Marx Brothers and Bob Hope. In the 1970s, a Chinese community established 
a foothold in the neighborhood of Flushing, whose demographic constituency 
had been predominantly non-Hispanic white, interspersed with a small Japanese 
community. This wave of immigrants from Taiwan were the first to arrive 
and developed Flushing's Chinatown. It was known as Little Taipei or Little 
Taiwan. Many who arrived were the descendants of former soldiers and political 
supporters of Chiang Kai-shek and the Chinese Nationalist Party, which 
had lost the war against the Communist Party of China, and established 
themselves in Taiwan. Along with immigrants from Taiwan at this time, a 
large South Korean population also called Flushing home. Before the 1970s, 
Cantonese immigrants had vastly dominated Chinese immigration to New York 
City; however during the 1970s, the Taiwanese immigrants were the first 
wave of Chinese immigrants who spoke Mandarin rather than Cantonese to 
arrive in New York City. Due to the dominance of Cantonese-speaking immigrants, 
who were largely working-class in Manhattan's Chinatown, as well as the 
language barrier and poor housing conditions there, Taiwanese immigrants, 
who were more likely to have attained higher educational standards and 
socioeconomic status, could not relate to Manhattan's Chinatown, and chose 
to settle in Flushing instead. As the Taiwanese population grew, a Flushing 
Chinatown was created with a higher standard of living and better housing 
conditions. Over the years, many new non-Cantonese ethnic Chinese immigrants 
from different regions and provinces of China started to arrive in New 
York City. This led to the creation of a more Mandarin-speaking Chinatown 
or Mandarin Town that gradually replaced Little Taipei. This wave of immigrants 
spoke Mandarin and various regional/provincial dialects. Like the Taiwanese, 
they faced cultural and communication problems in Manhattan's Cantonese-speaking 
Chinatown and settled in Flushing as well as Elmhurst, Queens, which also 
has a significant Mandarin-speaking population. Flushing's Chinese population 
became very diverse over the next few decades as people from different 
provinces started to arrive, infusing their varied languages and cultures 
into its Chinatown.[13][14][15][16] Flushing and its Chinatown abuts the 
rapidly growing Long Island Koreatown as well.[17] Koreatown originated 
in Flushing before sprawling eastward along Northern Boulevard[18][19][20][21][22] 
and eventually into Nassau County.[20] This Koreatown abuts the rapidly 
growing Flushing Chinatown as well.[18] Based on data from the 2010 United 
States Census, the population of Flushing was 72,008, an increase of 2,646 
(3.8%) from the 69,362 counted in 2000. Covering an area of 853.06 acres 
(345.22 ha), the neighborhood had a population density of 84.4 inhabitants 
per acre (54,000/sq mi; 20,900/km2).[2] The racial makeup of the neighborhood 
was 9.5% (6,831) White, 4.2% (3,016) African American, 0.1% (74) Native 
American, 69.2% (49,830) Asian, 0.1% (59) Pacific Islander, 0.2% (172) 
from other races, and 1.8% (1,303) from two or more races. Hispanic or 
Latino of any race were 14.9% (10,723) of the population.[23] Flushing 
Chinatown (法拉盛華埠), or Mandarin Town (國語埠)[24] is one of the largest and 
fastest growing ethnic Chinese enclaves outside of Asia, as well as within 
New York City itself. In Mandarin, Flushing is known as "Falasheng" (Chinese: 
法拉盛; pinyin: Fǎlāshèng). Main Street and the area to its west, particularly 
along Roosevelt Avenue, have become the primary nexus of Flushing's Chinatown. 
However, Chinatown continues to expand southeastward along Kissena Boulevard 
and northward beyond Northern Boulevard. In the 1970s, a Chinese community 
established a foothold in the neighborhood of Flushing, whose demographic 
constituency had been predominantly non-Hispanic white. Taiwanese began 
the surge of immigration, followed by other groups of Chinese. By 1990, 
Asians constituted 41% of the population of the core area of Flushing, 
with Chinese in turn representing 41% of the Asian population.[13] However, 
ethnic Chinese are constituting an increasingly dominant proportion of 
the Asian population as well as of the overall population in Flushing and 
its Chinatown. A 1986 estimate by the Flushing Chinese Business Association 
approximated 60,000 Chinese in Flushing alone.[25] The intersection of 
Main Street and Roosevelt Avenue, the business center for Flushing, on 
the westernmost edge of the neighborhood, has a large concentration of 
Chinese and Korean businesses, including Asian restaurants. Chinese-owned 
businesses in particular dominate the area along Main Street and the blocks 
west of it. Many of the signs and advertisements of the stores in the area 
are in Chinese. Ethnic Chinese constitute an increasingly dominant proportion 
of the Asian population and as well as of the overall population in Flushing. 
Consequently, Flushing's Chinatown has grown rapidly enough to become the 
second-largest Chinatown outside of Asia. In fact, the Flushing Chinatown 
may surpass the original Manhattan Chinatown itself within a few years.[13][26][27] 
A 1986 estimate by the Flushing Chinese Business Association approximated 
60,000 Chinese in Flushing alone.[28] By 1990, Asians constituted 41% of 
the population of the core area of Flushing, with Chinese in turn representing 
41% of the Asian population.[13] However, ethnic Chinese are constituting 
an increasingly dominant proportion of the Asian population as well as 
of the overall population in Flushing and its Chinatown. High rates of 
both legal[29][30] and illegal[31] immigration from Mainland China continue 
to spur the ongoing rise of the ethnic Chinese population in Flushing, 
as in all of New York City's Chinatowns. According to a Daily News article, 
Flushing's Chinatown ranks as New York City's second largest Chinese community 
with 33,526 Chinese, up from 17,363, a 93% increase. The Brooklyn Chinatown 
(布鲁克林華埠) now ranks #1 as the largest Chinatown of NYC with 34,218 Chinese 
residents, up from 19,963 in 2000, a 71% increase. As for Manhattan's Chinatown, 
its Chinese population declined by 17%, from 34,554 to 28,681 since 2000 
to rank #3.[32] Flushing now rivals Manhattan's Chinatown as a center of 
Chinese culture[34] and has been called the "Chinese Manhattan".[35] The 
Lunar New Year Parade has become a growing annual celebration of Chinese 
New Year. More and larger Chinese supermarkets are locating and selling 
a diverse and uniquely vast array of Chinese food and ingredient selections 
in Flushing, the largest of which include Hong Kong Supermarket and New 
York Supermarket, which also happen to be rapidly growing Chinese American 
chain supermarkets.[36][37][38] Flushing's rise as an epicenter of Chinese 
culture outside of Asia has been attributed to the remarkable diversity 
of regional Chinese demographics represented. The World Journal, one of 
the largest Chinese-language newspapers outside of China, is headquartered 
in adjacent Whitestone (白石), Queens, with offices in Flushing as well.[33] 
Numerous other Chinese- and English-language publications are available 
in Flushing. The popular styles of Chinese cuisine are ubiquitously accessible 
in Flushing,[39] including Taiwanese, Shanghainese, Hunanese, Szechuan, 
Cantonese, Fujianese, Xinjiang, Zhejiang, and Korean Chinese cuisine. Even 
the relatively obscure Dongbei style of cuisine indigenous to Northeast 
China is now available in Flushing,[40] as well as Mongolian cuisine. Mandarin 
Chinese[41] (including Northeastern Mandarin), Fuzhou dialect, Min Nan 
Fujianese, Wu Chinese, Beijing dialect, Wenzhounese, Shanghainese, Suzhou 
dialect, Hangzhou dialect, Cantonese, Taiwanese, and English are all prevalently 
spoken in Flushing Chinatown, while the Mongolian language is now emerging. 
Even the relatively obscure Dongbei style of cuisine indigenous to Northeast 
China is now available in Flushing .[42] Given its rapidly growing status, 
the Flushing Chinatown may surpass in size and population the original 
New York City Chinatown in the borough of Manhattan within a few years, 
and it is debatable whether this has already happened. The New York Times 
says that Flushing's Chinatown now rivals Manhattan's Chinatown for being 
the center of Chinese-speaking New Yorkers' politics and trade.[43] In 
accompaniment with its rapid growth, Flushing in particular has witnessed 
the proliferation of highly competitive businesses touted as educational 
centers as well as non-profit organizations declaring the intent to educate 
the community. Some entities offer education in Mandarin,[44] the lingua 
franca of Mainland China; others profess to provide students with intensive 
training in computer and technological proficiency; while still others 
entice high school students with rigorous preparatory classes for college 
entrance examinations in mathematics, science, and English literacy. A 
diverse array of social services geared toward assisting recent as well 
as established Chinese immigrants is readily available in Flushing.[45] 
The Elmhurst Chinatown on Broadway in nearby Elmhurst, another neighborhood 
in the borough of Queens, also has a large and rapidly growing Chinese 
community and is developing as a satellite of the Flushing Chinatown. Previously 
a small area with Chinese shops on Broadway between 81st Street and Cornish 
Avenue, this newly evolved second Chinatown in Queens has now expanded 
to 45th Avenue and Whitney Avenue.[46] A third and fledgling Chinatown 
is now emerging in Queens, geographically between Flushing and Elmhurst, 
in the neighborhood of Corona.[47] There is a Koreatown which originated 
in Flushing, but has since spread eastward to Murray Hill, Bayside, Douglaston, 
and Little Neck in Queens, and also into Nassau County.[48][49][50][51][52] 
As of the 2010 United States Census, the Korean population of Queens was 
64,107.[53] In the 1980s, a continuous stream of Korean immigrants emerged 
into Flushing, many of whom began as workers in the medical field or Korean 
international students who had moved to New York City to find or initiate 
professional or entrepreneurial positions.[18] They established a foothold 
on Union Street in Flushing between 35th and 41st Avenues,[18] featuring 
restaurants and karaoke (noraebang) bars, grocery markets, education centers 
and bookstores, banking institutions, offices, consumer electronics vendors, 
apparel boutiques, and other commercial enterprises.[19] As the community 
grew in wealth and population and rose in socioeconomic status, Koreans 
expanded their presence eastward along Northern Boulevard, buying homes[22] 
in more affluent and less crowded Queens neighborhoods and more recently 
into adjacent suburban Nassau County, bringing their businesses with them, 
and thereby expanding the Koreatown itself.[19] This expansion has led 
to the creation of an American Meokjagolmok, or Korean Restaurant Street, 
around the Long Island Rail Road station in Murray Hill, Queens, exuding 
the ambience of Seoul itself.[19] The eastward pressure to expand was also 
created by the inability to move westward, inhibited by the formidable 
presence of the enormous Flushing Chinatown (法拉盛華埠) centered on Main Street.[18] 
Per the 2010 United States Census, the Korean population of Queens was 
64,107,[53] representing the largest municipality in the United States 
with a density of at least 500 Korean Americans per square mile; while 
the Korean population of Nassau County had increased by nearly two-thirds 
to approximately 14,000 over one decade since the 2000 Census.[54] Along 
with the two Koreatowns of Bergen County, New Jersey (in Palisades Park 
and Fort Lee) and the Manhattan Koreatown in New York City, the Long Island 
Koreatown functions as a satellite node for an overall Korean American 
population of 218,764 individuals in the New York City Metropolitan Area,[55] 
the second largest population of ethnic Koreans outside of Korea. Korean 
Air and Asiana Airlines provide non-stop flights from Seoul to JFK Airport[56][57] 
in Queens. The Korea Times, a news organization based in Seoul, carries 
a significant presence in the Long Island Koreatown. The Long Island Koreatown 
features numerous restaurants that serve both traditional and/or regional 
Korean cuisine. As noted above, the development of this Koreatown has led 
to the creation of an American Meokjagolmok, or Korean Restaurant Street, 
around the Long Island Rail Road station in Murray Hill, exuding the ambience 
of Seoul itself.[19] Korean Chinese cuisine is now also available in Koreatown. 
Korean and English are both spoken prevalently. Retail signs employing 
the Hangul alphabet are ubiquitous. A significant array of social services 
toward assisting recent and established Korean immigrants is readily available 
in Koreatown. The neighborhood of East Flushing, technically within Greater 
Flushing, also houses a substantial Chinese community along with most of 
Downtown Flushing. However, East Flushing also substantially includes Irish, 
Greek, Russian, and Italian communities, as well as communities of Indians, 
Sri Lankans, Malaysians, and Hispanics, mostly Colombians and Salvadorans. 
This neighborhood tends to be more diverse visibly than Downtown Flushing 
because of the more even distribution of the ethnicities of East Flushing 
residents resulting in more businesses catering to each community rather 
than the dominance of Chinese and to a lesser extent Korean businesses 
in Downtown Flushing. The northeastern section of Flushing near Bayside 
continues to maintain large Italian and Greek presences that are reflected 
in its many Italian and Greek bakeries, grocery stores and restaurants. 
The northwest is a mix of Jews, Greeks, and Italians. Most of central Flushing 
is an ethnic mix of Whites, Hispanic Americans, and Asian Americans. An 
area south of Franklin Avenue houses a concentration of Indian, Pakistani, 
Afghan, and Bangladeshi markets. This concentration of South Asian businesses 
south of Franklin Avenue has existed since the late 1970s, one of the oldest 
Little Indias in North America. The Sri Maha Vallabha Ganapati Devasthanam 
(Sanskrit: श्री महावल्लभ गणपति देवस्थानम्, Tamil: ஸ்ரீ மகா வல்லப கணபதி 
தேவஸ்தானம்) at 45-57 Bowne Street in Flushing was the very first of the 
traditional Hindu temples in the US.[58][59] Broadway-Flushing, also known 
as North Flushing, is a residential area with many large homes. Part of 
this area has been designated a State and Federal historic district due 
to the elegant, park-like character of the neighborhood. Recently much 
of the area was rezoned by the City of New York to preserve the low density, 
residential quality of the area. The neighborhood awaits designation as 
an Historic District by the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission. 
Broadway-Flushing is bounded by 29th Avenue to the north, Northern Boulevard 
and Crocheron Avenue to the south, 155th Street to the west, and 172nd 
Streets to the east.[citation needed] Linden Hill is part of Flushing and 
is served by the NYPD's 109th Precinct and Queens Community Board 7. Its 
borders are defined as 25th Avenue to Willets Point Boulevard. to the north, 
154th Street to the east, Northern Boulevard to the south and the Whitestone 
Expressway to the west.[60] Linden Hill was originally a rural estate owned 
by the Mitchell family. Ernest Mitchell owned an adjacent area known as 
Breezy Hill and his father owned the area now called Linden Hill.[61] The 
two areas are sometimes referred to as Mitchell-Linden. A major change 
in the rural nature of Linden Hill occurred in the 1950s. Builders envisioned 
a cooperative project to be set on Linden Hill and landfill of an adjacent 
swamp which would provide middle-income housing to veterans of World War 
II and the Korean War.[61] Under Section 213 of the Federal Housing Act 
of 1950,[62] and at a cost of $15 million, the project was enacted. It 
provided homes for about 1400 residents in the 41 six-story buildings of 
the Linden Hill, Mitchell Gardens, Linden Towers, and Embassy Arms cooperatives. 
Once a primarily European-American neighborhood, Linden Hill is now a diverse 
mix of European-Americans, Asian-Americans and Latino-Americans. The Asian-American 
population has expanded markedly in the southern part of Linden Hill in 
the past decade (as it has in Flushing proper) and the Latino-American 
population has also grown noticeably. Conversely, the European-American 
population has lessened somewhat, though European-Americans still remain 
in great numbers north of Bayside Avenue, west of 149th Street. The local 
branch of the Queens Borough Public Library is located on Union Street 
and is known as the Mitchell Linden Branch. This subsection has a median 
income of $38,978 and ZIP codes of 11354, 11355, and 11358. Traditionally 
the home of families of Irish and Italian immigrants, many Korean and Chinese 
immigrants have moved into Murray Hill in recent years. Murray Hill within 
Flushing is often confused with the larger Murray Hill neighborhood on 
the East Side of Manhattan.[63][64] Before the area was developed for residential 
housing in 1889, Murray Hill was the location of several large nurseries 
owned by the King, Murray, and Parsons families.[65] The Kingsland Homestead 
has been preserved as the home of the Queens Historical Society.[63] The 
Voelker Orth Museum, Bird Sanctuary and Victorian Garden is also located 
in Murray Hill.[66] Comic strip artist Richard F. Outcault, the creator 
of The Yellow Kid and Buster Brown, lived on 147th Street in Murray Hill.[67] 
Queensboro Hill in southern Flushing is bordered to the West by College 
Point Boulevard, to the North by Kissena Park and Kissena Corridor Park, 
to the South by Reeves Avenue and the Long Island Expressway, and to the 
East by Kissena Boulevard. Queensboro Hill is a part of ZIP codes 11355 
and 11367 and contains a New York Hospital Queens branch. One of the leading 
churches is the Queensboro Hill Community Church, a multi-racial congregation 
of the Reformed Church in America. Turtle Playground serves the residents 
of this section of Flushing. This area is often referred to as South Flushing. 
This may also refer to Pomonok. The Waldheim neighborhood, an estate subdivision 
in Flushing constructed primarily between 1875 and 1925, is a small district 
of high quality "in-town" suburban architecture that preservationists have 
tried to save for at least twenty-five years. Waldheim, German for "home 
in the woods", known for its large homes of varying architectural styles, 
laid out in an unusual street pattern, was the home of some of Flushing's 
wealthiest residents until the 1960s. Notable residents include the Helmann 
family of condiment fame, the Steinway family of piano notability, as well 
as A. Douglas Nash, who managed a nearby Tiffany glass plant. The neighborhood 
was rezoned by the City of New York in 2008, in order to halt the destruction 
of its original housing stock, which began in the late 1980s, and to help 
preserve the low density, residential character of the neighborhood. As 
with the Broadway neighborhood, preservationists have been unable to secure 
designation as an Historic District by the NYC Landmarks Preservation Commission 
to date. Today, Waldheim stretches between Sanford and Franklin Avenues 
on the north, 45th Avenue on the south, Bowne Street on the west and Parsons 
Boulevard on the east. The area is immediately southeast of the downtown 
Flushing commercial core, and adjacent to Kissena Park. Flushing is among 
the most religiously diverse communities in America. Today, Flushing abounds 
with houses of worship, ranging from the Dutch colonial epoch Quaker Meeting 
House, the historic Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Queens, St. 
Andrew Avellino Roman Catholic Church, St. George's Episcopal Church, the 
Free Synagogue of Flushing, the Congregation of Georgian Jews, St. Mel 
Roman Catholic Church, St. Michael's Catholic Church, St. Nicholas Greek 
Orthodox Shrine Church, St. John's Lutheran Church, Queensboro Hill Community 
Church, Hindu Temple Society of North America, and the Muslim Center of 
New York.[68] There are "over 200 places of worship in a small urban neighborhood 
about 2.5 square miles (6.3 square kilometers)."[69] "Flushing has become 
a model for religious pluralism in America, says R. Scott Hanson, a visiting 
assistant professor of history at the State University of New York at Binghamton 
and an affiliate of the Pluralism Project at Harvard University."[70] In 
1657, while Flushing was still a Dutch settlement, a document known as 
the Flushing Remonstrance was created by Edward Hart, the town clerk, where 
some thirty ordinary citizens protested a ban imposed by Peter Stuyvesant, 
the director general of New Amsterdam, forbidding the harboring of Quakers. 
The Remonstrants cited the Flushing Town charter of 1645 which promised 
liberty of conscience.[8] Flushing has many landmark buildings. Flushing 
Town Hall[71] on Northern Boulevard is the headquarters of the Flushing 
Council on Culture and the Arts, an affiliate of the Smithsonian Institution 
in Washington, D.C.[72] The building houses a concert hall and cultural 
center and is one of the sites designated along the Queens Historical Society's 
Freedom Mile.[73] Other registered New York City Landmarks include the 
Bowne House, Kingsland Homestead, Old Quaker Meeting House (1694), Flushing 
High School, St. George's Church (1854), the Lewis H. Latimer House, the 
former RKO Keith's movie theater, the United States Post Office on Main 
Street, and the Unisphere, the iconic 12-story-high stainless steel globe 
that served as the centerpiece for the 1964 New York World's Fair. The 
Flushing Armory, on Northern Boulevard, was formerly used by the National 
Guard. Presently, the Queens North Task Force of the New York City Police 
Department uses this building.[74] In 2005, the Fitzgerald-Ginsberg Mansion[75] 
on Bayside Avenue and in 2007, the Voelker Orth Museum, Bird Sanctuary 
and Victorian Garden[76] were designated as landmarks. In addition, the 
Broadway-Flushing Historic District, Free Synagogue of Flushing, and Main 
Street Subway Station (Dual System IRT) are listed on the National Register 
of Historic Places.[77] Several attractions were originally developed for 
the World's Fairs in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park. There is a stone marker 
for the two 5,000-year Westinghouse Time Capsules made of special alloys 
buried in the park, chronicling 20th-century life in the United States, 
dedicated both in 1938 and 1965. Also in the park are the Queens Museum 
of Art which features a scale model of the City of New York, the largest 
architectural model ever built; Queens Theatre in the Park;[78] the New 
York Hall of Science and the Queens Zoo. The New York State Pavilion was 
listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2009.[77] The Queens 
Botanical Garden on Main Street has been in operation continuously since 
its opening as an exhibit at the 1939 New York World's Fair. The Botanical 
Garden carries on Flushing's nearly three centuries-long horticultural 
tradition, dating back to its once famed tree nurseries and seed farms. 
All the public parks and playgrounds in Flushing are supervised by the 
New York City Department of Parks and Recreation. For Queens County, the 
Department of Parks and Recreation is headquartered at The Overlook in 
Forest Park located in Kew Gardens. When New York Air existed, its headquarters 
were in Hangar 5 at LaGuardia Airport near Flushing.[80] The sentimental 
global headquarters of Calabrese Creations in Iron, Inc. is on 160th street 
in Flushing. Public schools in Flushing are supervised by the New York 
City Department of Education through Administrative District 25. There 
are numerous public Elementary and Junior High Schools in Flushing and 
students generally attend a school based on the location of their residence. 
Public elementary and middle schools include: John Bowne Elementary P.S. 
20, P.S. 21 Edward Hart Elementary School, Thomas Jefferson Elementary 
P.S. 22, Andrew Jackson Elementary P.S. 24, Cadwallader Colden Elementary 
P.S. 214, P.S. 32, Adrien Block Intermediate I.S. 25, Daniel Carter Beard 
Junior High School 189, and Edward Bleeker JHS 185. The six public high 
schools in Flushing are: I.S. 237, an arts-oriented magnet school also 
known as Rachel Carson Intermediate School 237, is also located in Flushing, 
at 46-21 Colden Street. This school consists of grades 6, 7, and 8. The 
school was named after scientist Rachel Carson, the writer of Silent Spring 
which inspired people to name the school after her; it opened in 1971. 
Each year in June for the 8th graders they have a senior trip to the Poconos. 
In 1999 the school took ownership of a park called Rachel Carson Playground, 
which is right across from the school. Judith Friedman is the principal 
of the school, which has over 800 students. Since 2006 the school made 
room for a new school to use the space up on the 4th floor for the East-West 
School of International Studies.[81] The East-West School of International 
Studies[82] (Public School Q281) was established in 2006 in I.S. 237; the 
school serves students in grades 6-12 with an emphasis on Asian studies. 
It opened in September 2006 with 6th through 12th grade classes.[83] Operated 
by the New York City Department of Education, it is led by principal Ben 
Sherman, has an average class size of 25 students, and has a student-teacher 
ratio of 14.9:1 in 2006-07,[84] As it shares space with I.S. 237, the education 
department is looking at sites for the East-West School to occupy, including 
a nearby Home Depot.[85] The East-West School curriculum prepares students 
to graduate high school with a Regents' diploma and proficiency in Mandarin 
Chinese, Japanese, or Korean.[86] Student groups and activities include 
erhu club, anime club, art, STEP team, dance team calligraphy, chess club, 
dance, film-making, MOUSE Squad (student computer maintenance), mentoring, 
Model United Nations, music, newspaper, peer tutoring, step club, Korean 
Traditional Painting, Korean dancing and singing, and student government. 
Athletic clubs and teams include basketball, yoga, martial arts, soccer, 
t'ai chi, judo, and table tennis.[87][88][89] The private high schools 
include: On December 22, 1980,[90] The Japanese School of New York moved 
from Jamaica Estates, Queens into Fresh Meadows, Queens,[91] near Flushing. 
In 1991, the school moved to Yonkers in Westchester County, New York, before 
moving to Greenwich, Connecticut in 1992.[90] Queens College, founded in 
1937, is a senior college of the City University of New York (CUNY), and 
is commonly misconstrued to be within Flushing neighborhood limits due 
to its Flushing mailing address. It is actually located in the nearby neighborhood 
of Kew Gardens Hills on Kissena Boulevard near the Long Island Expressway. 
The City University of New York School of Law was founded in 1983 adjacent 
to the Queens College campus, and was located at 65-21 Main Street in Kew 
Gardens Hills until 2012.[92] It moved to Long Island City for the Fall 
2012 Semester. The Law School operates Main Street Legal Services Corp., 
a legal services clinic. In 1858, the first library in Queens County was 
founded in Flushing. Today, there are eight branches of the Queens Borough 
Public Library with Flushing addresses.[94] The largest of the Flushing 
branches is located at the intersection of Kissena Boulevard and Main Street[95] 
in Flushing's Chinatown and is the busiest branch of the highest circulation 
system[96] in the country.[95][97] This library has and houses an auditorium 
for public events. The current building, designed by Polshek Partnership 
Architects, is the third to be built on the site—the first was a gift of 
Andrew Carnegie.[97] New York Hospital Queens (formerly known as Booth 
Memorial Hospital), a member of the New York-Presbyterian Healthcare System, 
is a major medical center providing Flushing as well as surrounding communities 
with comprehensive medical care services.[98] Numerous tertiary medical 
clinics also serve the residents of Flushing. Flushing Hospital Medical 
Center serves the area as well. The New York City Subway operates the IRT 
Flushing Line (7 <7> trains). The Flushing–Main Street station, located 
at the intersection of Main Street and Roosevelt Avenue, is currently the 
eastern terminus of the line.[99] Until the Flushing line made its way 
to the intersection of Main Street and Roosevelt Avenue in 1928, the center 
of Flushing was considered to be at the intersection of Northern Boulevard 
and Main Street. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority operates the 
Long Island Rail Road's Port Washington Branch that has five rail road 
stations in Flushing. The Flushing–Main Street is located one block away 
from the subway station that bears the same name. The other stations in 
the neighborhood are Mets – Willets Point, Murray Hill, Broadway and Auburndale. 
The Long Island Rail Road provides a direct rail link to Pennsylvania Station 
in Manhattan.[100] Major highways that serve the area include the Van Wyck 
Expressway, Whitestone Expressway, Grand Central Parkway, and Long Island 
Expressway. Northern Boulevard extends from the Queensboro Bridge in Long 
Island City through Flushing into Nassau County. There are also many buses 
run by Metropolitan Transportation Authority affiliate New York City Bus 
(routes Q12, Q13, Q15, Q15A, Q16, Q17, Q20A, Q20B, Q26, Q27, Q28, Q44 SBS, 
Q48, Q58) and subsidiary MTA Bus Company (routes Q19, Q25, Q34, Q50, Q65, 
Q66). The n20 and n21 Nassau Inter-County Express bus routes terminate 
in Flushing.[101] The political stature of Flushing appears to be increasing 
significantly, with many Chinese from Flushing becoming New York City Council 
members. Taiwan-born John Liu, former New York City Council member representing 
District 20, which includes Flushing and other northern Queens neighborhoods, 
was elected to his current position of New York City Comptroller in November 
2009. Concomitantly, Shanghai-born Peter Koo was elected to succeed Liu 
to assume this council membership seat. Additionally, in 2012 Flushing 
resident Grace Meng, a State Assembly Member, was elected to Congress as 
the first Asian-American member of that chamber east of the Mississippi. 
Coordinates: 40°45′57″N 73°49′59″W﻿ / ﻿40.765830°N 73.833084°W﻿ / 40.765830; 
