Flushing Meadows–Corona Park, often referred to as Flushing Meadows Park, 
or simply Flushing Meadows, is a public park in New York City. Located 
in the borough of Queens, it is between I-678 (Van Wyck Expressway) and 
the Grand Central Parkway and stretches from Flushing Bay, at the southern 
edge of LaGuardia Airport, to Union Turnpike. It contains the USTA Billie 
Jean King National Tennis Center, the current venue for the US Open tennis 
tournament; Citi Field, the home of the New York Mets baseball team; the 
New York Hall of Science; the Queens Museum of Art; the Queens Theatre 
in the Park; the Queens Zoo; and the New York State Pavilion. It formerly 
contained Shea Stadium, demolished in 2009. The fourth largest public park 
in New York City, it was created as the site of the 1939/1940 New York 
World's Fair and also hosted the 1964/1965 New York World's Fair. It was 
long believed to be 1,255 acres (508 ha) in size, but a survey concluded 
in 2013 found its actual size to be 897 acres (363 ha) when accounting 
for major roads and other exclusions within the park's perimeter.[1] This 
does not take into account a disputed claim, which entails that the neighborhood 
of Willets Point, at the north edge of the park, is part of the park.[2] 
It is owned by the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation and 
maintained by the Flushing Meadows–Corona Park Conservancy, a private non-profit. 
The park is at the eastern edge of the area is encompassed by Queens Community 
Board 4.[3] The park was created from the former dumping ground, which 
was characterized as "a valley of ashes" in F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Great 
Gatsby. The site, known at the time as the Corona Ash Dumps, which was 
being filled with ashes from coal-burning furnaces, as well as with horse 
manure and garbage, was cleared by Parks Commissioner Robert Moses in preparation 
for the 1939-1940 World's Fair. The original name for the new parkland 
was "Flushing Meadow Park."[4] Faced with having to dispose of the mountains 
of ashes, Moses strategically incorporated a significant portion of the 
refuse into the bases of the Van Wyck Expressway running along the eastern 
side of the park, the nearby Interboro Parkway (now Jackie Robinson Parkway), 
and the Long Island Expressway that divides the park into north and south 
halves. The Grand Central Parkway separates a western lobe from the main 
part of the northern half, while the east-west Jewel Avenue bisects the 
southern half. Some of the buildings from the 1939 Fair were used for the 
first temporary headquarters of the United Nations from 1946 until it moved 
in 1951 to its permanent headquarters in Manhattan. The former New York 
City building was used for the UN General Assembly during that time.[5] 
This building was later refurbished for the 1964 Fair as the New York City 
Pavilion, featuring the Panorama of the City of New York, an enormous scale 
model of the entire city.[6] It is one of two buildings that survive from 
the 1939-40 Fair, and the only one that remains in its original location. 
(The other is the Belgium exhibition building, disassembled and moved to 
the campus of Virginia Union University in 1941.) It is the home of the 
Queens Museum of Art, which still houses, and occasionally updates, the 
Panorama. The Unisphere, built as the theme symbol for the 1964/1965 World's 
Fair, is the main sculptural feature of the park. It stands on the site 
occupied by the Perisphere during the earlier Fair. In early 1964, the 
New York City Council added "Corona" to the park's name, so that the park 
was named "Flushing Meadows-Corona Park", in preparation for the World's 
Fair. Councilman Edward Sadowsky explained that this was intended to correct 
an injustice: "The people of Corona have long lived in the aroma of a junkyard 
or a dump named for their community. Now, when there is something beautiful 
to be seen, there is no mention of the name Corona."[7] Since 1978, the 
US Open tennis tournament has taken place in Flushing Meadows Corona Park. 
After "Flushing Meadows" became the (secondary) name of the tennis tournament 
itself, that portion of the park was subsequently named USTA Billie Jean 
King National Tennis Center. Its center court is Arthur Ashe Stadium, and 
its secondary stadium court is Louis Armstrong Stadium. Citi Field, the 
home of the New York Mets since 2009, sits at the north end of the park. 
Shea Stadium, the Mets' previous home, once stood adjacent to the area 
now hosting Citi Field. Since the early 1990s, the pavilion's ledges, steps, 
and fountain grates have been utilized by skateboarders and featured in 
famous east coast skateboarding videos. In 2010 a skate plaza was built 
nearby to host the Maloof Money Cup, a skateboarding competition. By the 
early 2000s, the park had become the residence of a number of homeless 
people,[8] who received attention after five abducted, raped, and threatened 
to kill a woman who had been sitting with her partner at Mets – Willets 
Point, a nearby subway station.[9] The $66.3 million Flushing Meadows Natatorium, 
encompassing an Olympic-sized public indoor pool and an NHL regulation-sized 
skating rink, opened in 2008. The facility, utilized by schools, leagues 
and community members of all ages, is the largest recreation complex in 
any New York City park, at 110,000 square feet (10,000 m2). The complex 
incorporates features for the physically disabled.[10] Rental boats are 
available for rowing and paddleboating on the park's Meadow Lake, which 
feeds northward into the Flushing River and thence into Flushing Bay. Meadow 
Lake is the site of rowing activities for non-profit Row New York, with 
teams practicing on the lake for much of the year.[11] Meadow Lake also 
hosts the annual Hong Kong Dragon Boat Festival in New York, and teams 
from New York practice in Meadow Lake during the summer months. The American 
Small Craft Association[12] (TASCA) also houses a fleet of over a dozen 
14.5-foot sloop-rigged sailboats, used for teaching, racing, and recreation 
by the club's members. Bicycling paths extend around Meadow Lake and connect 
to the Brooklyn-Queens Greenway. Paths around Willow Lake, the smaller 
and higher of the two lakes, in a natural wetlands area in the little-used 
far southern section of the park, are currently closed to the public.[13] 
The many recreational playing fields and playgrounds in the park are used 
for activities that reflect the wide ethnic mix of Queens; soccer and cricket 
are especially popular.[citation needed] The park is also the home of Queens 
Theatre in the Park,[14][15] the New York Hall of Science, the Queens Museum 
of Art, and Terrace on the Park (a banquet and catering facility, the Fair's 
former helipad). The New York State Pavilion, constructed as the state's 
exhibit hall for the 1964 World's Fair, is also a feature of the park. 
However, no new use for the building was found after the Fair, and the 
structure sits derelict and decaying. Other buildings that remained for 
a while after the Fair's conclusion to see if a new use for them could 
be found, such as the United States Pavilion, have subsequently been demolished. 
One such parcel became the site of the Playground for All Children, one 
of the first playgrounds designed to include handicapped-accessible activities. 
The design competition for the playground was won by architect Hisham N. 
Ashkouri; the facility was completed in 1984, and it was refurbished and 
reopened in 1997.[16] The Flushing Meadows Carousel operates in the northwestern 
part of the park. Major League Soccer established a second team in the 
New York metropolitan area, New York City FC, and proposed to build a 25,000-seat 
stadium in Flushing Meadows–Corona Park by 2016.[17] After heavy community 
opposition, the team changed its plans and currently plays at Yankee Stadium. 
This park also contains three MTA maintenance facilities such as the IND 
Jamaica Yard, IRT Corona Yard, and the Casey Stengel Bus Depot as well 
as two stations providing subway and train service to serve this park, 
one for the IRT subway at Mets-Willets Point and the LIRR Station also 
