Football Night in America is an American pre-game show that is broadcast 
on NBC, preceding its broadcasts of Sunday night and Wild Card Saturday 
National Football League (NFL) games. The program debuted on September 
10, 2006, when the network inaugurated its Sunday prime time game package. 
The 80-minute program airs live at 7:00 p.m. Eastern Time, and is broadcast 
from Studio 1 at NBC Sports Headquarters in Stamford, Connecticut. Prior 
to 2012, Football Night in America originally broadcast from the GE Building 
in New York City, first out of Studio 8G from 2006 to 2012 and in 2013, 
from Studio 8H, where Saturday Night Live is also taped. The program's 
title closely resembles CBC Television's long-running Hockey Night in Canada 
franchise. In addition, NBC – along with ABC and Major League Baseball 
in a joint effort called "The Baseball Network" – had previously aired 
baseball games as the similarly titled Baseball Night in America from 1994 
to 1995. During the 2006 preseason, the Football Night team appeared at 
halftime from an exterior set at the site of that night's game, as the 
set at the GE Building was still being prepared. The format for Football 
Night originally had the program begin with a video package, in which a 
football seemingly flies throughout the country. Several landmarks were 
featured in the introduction, including the Gateway Arch, the Golden Gate 
Bridge and the Empire State Building. After a welcome, the program featured 
a rundown of the day's scores, before a first visit from game announcers 
Al Michaels and John Madden. By the end of the first half of the 2006 season, 
the simulated landmark flyover sequence was removed, and the reading of 
the game scores was replaced by a round table discussion segment called 
"The Week (number of NFL week) Buzz", during which the scores appeared 
at the bottom of the screen. Michaels and Madden were now shown only once 
during the broadcast, in the later segment, "Drive to Kickoff". Just before 
the first highlights piece, a graphical rundown banner for the current 
and succeeding highlight segments (similar to that seen on FSN Final Score) 
was added on-screen. Originally, the second segment featured several field 
reports from the day's games, additional analysis, and inside information 
about the NFL from Peter King. The field report segment was eventually 
eliminated, while field reports on the program were reduced, supposedly 
due to cutbacks at NBC Universal. The second segment began featuring an 
interview conducted earlier in the week, usually by Bob Costas. In the 
third segment, the studio team moved to a screening room, in which highlights 
of the daytime games were reviewed. Football Night in America is the only 
pre-game show that the NFL allows to carry long-form highlights (running 
up to three minutes, twice as long as the usual allowance). Because of 
Game 2 of the 2006 World Series, and the preference that no NFL game competes 
against the Major League Baseball championship series, a one-hour edition 
aired from 7:00 to 8:00 p.m. on October 22. Additionally, as the NFL spurned 
Christmas Eve contests (a policy that was revoked in 2007), another one-hour 
show aired on December 24. NBC chooses one game per week to focus on as 
well. For this game, usually the marquee late matchup on either Fox or 
CBS, NBC will send one of its reporters to cover the game in a more in-depth 
fashion (like ESPN does for Sunday NFL Countdown). As of 2014, the on-site 
role has been primarily filled by Kathryn Tappen. Previously, reports were 
filed by Carolyn Manno and Alex Flanagan (the latter left NBC Sports after 
the 2014 season). The on-site reporting role is now a rotating one, with 
reports now filed by Manno, Tappen and Paul Burmeister (who came over from 
NFL Network in 2015 to replace the departed Alex Flanagan). Kia Sunday 
Night Kickoff (previously sponsored by Chevrolet in 2006 and 2007, GMC 
in 2008 and Hyundai from 2009 to 2013) is the broadcast's closing segment 
featuring analysis of the upcoming Sunday Night Football game, which follows 
immediately afterward, aired shortly before 8:00 p.m. Eastern Time. The 
segment features Al Michaels and Cris Collinsworth (with John Madden appearing 
on the segment prior to Madden's retirement from broadcasting in 2009.[1]) 
Some major changes went into effect for the 2007 season. In addition, to 
Michaels and Madden appearing in the first segment, Tiki Barber – who was 
added to the program – was brought in during the second segment to help 
provide analysis. Starting in the third portion of the program, Costas 
and Olbermann take turns reading the game highlights, while Barber, Collinsworth 
and Bettis were isolated in the "players' room" on another part of the 
set. After each set of highlights, the analysts comment on the events shown. 
Peter King also appears during the segment from a location on the main 
set. For the last 30 minutes of each edition, Collinsworth emerges from 
the room to join Costas by the large monitor on the set for highlights 
and analysis of two pre-selected "marquee matchups" (in Week 1, for example, 
these were the New England Patriots at New York Jets and the Chicago Bears 
at San Diego Chargers). At the end of the show, the panelists reunite for 
a one-sentence summary before kickoff. The roundtable segments and screening 
room were eliminated entirely from the broadcasts. However, interviews 
continue to be run on occasion; such as on the September 23 edition, in 
which Costas spoke with Chicago Bears star Devin Hester. Two features were 
added: the "TKO Report" ("TKO" being an acronym for "The Keith Olbermann"), 
a mini-commentary by Olbermann on a topic related to the game; and "Monday 
Morning Headlines," which summarizes the big stories of the NFL's afternoon 
action, as determined by the panel. An abbreviated version was shown at 
halftime, with Olbermann presenting a new segment called "Worst Person 
in the NFL," modeled after his "Worst Person in the World" commentary segment 
on MSNBC's Countdown with Keith Olbermann. His first "honoree" was himself, 
for advocating a light prison sentence for Michael Vick on his August 26 
debut during a preseason game (the following day, Vick pleaded guilty on 
charges of dogfighting). On the regular season debut, Olbermann pilloried 
New York Jets fans for cheering as Chad Pennington limped off the field 
with an ankle injury. On September 16, NFL commissioner Roger Goodell appeared 
live on Football Night to discuss the videotape scandal that enveloped 
the New England Patriots and their head coach Bill Belichick. In the interview, 
Goodell revealed that the Patriots were asked to turn over all videotape 
and still photography from previous games and that the team could face 
further punishment than what had been announced. Olbermann missed this 
program due an emergency appendectomy, however he returned the following 
week (September 24). A one-hour edition of the program aired on October 
28, as the NFL decided not to schedule a game that night to avoid scheduling 
conflicts with Game 4 of the 2007 World Series, which played that evening 
(and turned out to be the last game of the baseball season as the Boston 
Red Sox completed its sweep of the Colorado Rockies). On July 7, 2008, 
it was announced that former ESPN and ABC commentator Dan Patrick would 
join NBC Sports and serve as a co-host on Football Night in America. The 
move reunited Patrick and Olbermann on television for the first time since 
their days on ESPN's SportsCenter. The highlights package at the end of 
the program, originally known as "Olbertime", was also revamed under the 
new segment title "The Little Big Show," a reference to the duo's nickname 
during their time on SportsCenter. Olbermann quipped, "We tried 'Sportycenter', 
but that didn't work out." As had occurred during the previous two years, 
a one-hour edition aired on October 26 from 7:00 to 8:00 p.m. due to scheduling 
issues with Game 4 of the 2008 World Series that resulted the NFL deciding, 
when the 2008 schedule was released earlier that year, not to schedule 
a game for that night. At first, the reunion of Patrick and Olbermann was 
the only change from the year before. However, in November 2008, NBC released 
Bettis and Barber from the studio and effectively discontinued the "players' 
lounge" set. Barber spent the rest of the season as a field reporter, and 
held those duties for the NFC Wild Card game between the Atlanta Falcons 
and the Arizona Cardinals on January 3, 2009. Bettis bounced around between 
Rockefeller Center and select game sites. Bettis appeared in-studio for 
Football Night for the 2008 Wild Card Saturday matchups. During the 2008–09 
playoffs, Matt Millen, who had been fired earlier in the season after roughly 
eight years as general manager of the Detroit Lions, joined the Football 
Night in America team as a studio analyst. Since NBC held the national 
television rights to Super Bowl XLIII that year, a five-hour edition of 
the pre-game show aired starting at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time on February 
1, 2009. Bob Costas anchored the pre-game, halftime and post-game shows, 
with Cris Collinsworth as co-host and lead studio analyst. On the main 
set were recently retired coaches Mike Holmgren and Tony Dungy, along with 
former Lions executive Matt Millen. Dan Patrick and Keith Olbermann hosted 
segments on an auxiliary set outside the stadium and on the field and in 
the locker room (standing up) with Football Night regulars Jerome Bettis 
and Tiki Barber, as well as guest analyst Rodney Harrison. Andrea Kremer 
and Alex Flanagan respectively filed reports on the Steelers and Cardinals; 
Patrick handled the Super Bowl presentation. When the 2009 season of the 
program kicked off on September 13,[2] Cris Collinsworth replaced John 
Madden as a color commentator, alongside Michaels following Madden's retirement. 
Bettis' contract was not renewed; Tony Dungy and Rodney Harrison replaced 
Collinsworth and Bettis as full-time studio analysts,[3] while Barber served 
as an on-site reporter. On August 26, NBC announced that Football Night 
host Bob Costas would host the pre-game show at the game site; pregame 
panelists Dan Patrick, Keith Olbermann, Dungy and Harrison would remain 
in the New York City studio. The basic format remained unchanged from the 
previous year; all commentators remained except for Olbermann, who remained 
with MSNBC until his dismissal and move to Current TV (now Al Jazeera America) 
the following year. The December 26 edition of the program aired for 90 
minutes, with Costas hosting from Lincoln Financial Field despite the postponement 
of that night's Vikings-Eagles game to December 28 due to a blizzard that 
hit the area a few days earlier. A short five-minute pre-game show aired 
on that night preceding the game, however the usual Sunday Night Football 
introduction by Faith Hill did not air. The format remained virtually unchanged 
as all commentators returned to the show from the previous season. On February 
6, 2012, NBC aired a five-hour Super Bowl XLVI pre-game telecast starting 
at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time, hosted by Bob Costas and Dan Patrick, who also 
emceed the halftime and post-game shows; Tony Dungy and Rodney Harrison 
served as the co-hosts and lead studio analysts. Active NFL players Aaron 
Rodgers and Hines Ward contributed as guest analysts exclusively on the 
pre-game show. Costas hosted segments on an auxiliary set outside the stadium 
and on-field; Patrick hosted segments from the stadium concourse on an 
additional auxiliary. Michele Tafoya filed respective reports on the Giants 
and Patriots, while Patrick handled the Super Bowl presentation. The format 
remained virtually unchanged as all commentators returned to the show from 
the previous season. For the 2013 season, production of Football Night 
in America moved from Studio 8G to Studio 8H at 30 Rockefeller Plaza, the 
studio in which Saturday Night Live also broadcasts. Earlier that year, 
in March, NBC Sports' operations and all other studio programs moved from 
the network's New York City headquarters to a new facility in Stamford, 
Connecticut. Football Night in America joined the other NBC Sports studio 
programs at the new NBC Sports Headquarters in Stamford, where an entirely 
new set for the program was introduced with the debut of the program's 
ninth season on September 7, 2014, replacing the original set that had 
been used since the program's 2006 debut. In addition, Kia Motors replaced 
Hyundai (both automakers are owned by Hyundai Motor Group) as the sponsor 
for the program's Sunday Night Kickoff segment. Then-recently added NBC 
Sports correspondent Josh Elliott (formerly of ESPN and later, ABC's Good 
Morning America) also joined the FNIA broadcast team that year. Elliott 
would leave NBC Sports to join the network's sister news division in March 
of the following year. On February 1, 2015, NBC aired a five-hour Super 
Bowl XLIX pre-game telecast starting at 1:00 p.m. ET, hosted by Bob Costas 
and Dan Patrick, who also emceed the halftime and post-game shows; Tony 
Dungy and Rodney Harrison once again served as the co-hosts and lead studio 
analysts, along with guest analyst John Harbaugh. The "4 Downs" segment 
was added as the final segment of FNIA before ending with Costas at the 
game site. Prior to the Wild Card Saturday doubleheader, a half-hour version 
of Football Night in America is broadcast featuring an in-depth preview 
of the first game; during the afternoon halftime, a special edition of 
the Sunday Night Football halftime show is also broadcast. After the conclusion 
of the afternoon game and before the kickoff of the night game, an edition 
known in 2007 as the Diet Pepsi Bridge Show aired. At that point, the format 
became very similar to the traditional Football Night in America broadcasts, 
with Faith Hill singing a special playoff version of the intro, Al Michaels 
and John Madden working the booth, and Keith Olbermann doing a segment 
during halftime. In addition, until Madden's 2009 retirement, a "Horse 
Trailer Player of the Game" was named awarding the MVP for the nighttime 
game. In 2009, the Wild Card edition of the pre-game was retitled the NFL 
on NBC Studio Show. For the 2006 Wild Card coverage, Jim L. Mora appeared 
as co-host in place of Cris Collinsworth. In 2007, Miami Dolphins player 
Jason Taylor filled in for Collinsworth in the player's room, as Collinsworth 
was in Seattle, serving as a commentator for the afternoon game with Tom 
Hammond. Matt Millen made his first public appearance in Collinsworth's 
seat for the network's 2008 Wild Card coverage, after being fired by the 
Detroit Lions. Barber did not appear as he was assigned as the sideline 
reporter for the early game. Bob Costas hosted the pre-game from New Orleans, 
while Charles Barkley – who was at 30 Rock to host that evening's episode 
of Saturday Night Live, which taped next door at Studio 8H – sat in with 
Patrick, Dungy and Harrison in New York City.[4] Costas hosted from Pittsburgh 
(the site of the AFC Wild Card Saturday Night game), while Dan Patrick, 
Tony Dungy and Rodney Harrison remained at Studio 1 at NBC Sports Headquarters 
in Stamford, Connecticut. As NBC only held the rights to one Wild Card 
Saturday game that year, as a result of the opening Wild Card Weekend game 
being moved to ESPN, the network no longer airs a "bridge show" for the 
games as it did in years past. Football Night in America is also used as 
the pre-game show for NBC-produced Thursday Night Football games, with 
the show re-named to reference the specific city of that week's game. For 
the program's inaugural season in 2006, Bob Costas served as the host, 
with Cris Collinsworth, Sterling Sharpe and Jerome Bettis as analysts, 
and Sports Illustrated columnist Peter King as the special "insider" reporter. 
On September 7, 2006, Jerome Bettis arrived on the exterior set in a school 
bus (a reference to his nickname as a player for the Pittsburgh Steelers, 
"The Bus"); that night, in addition to providing analysis, Bettis received 
his ring for winning Super Bowl XL. Bettis missed the December 3 broadcast 
to prepare for the funeral of his father, Johnnie, who had died of a heart 
attack the previous Tuesday. NFL Network analyst Marshall Faulk (who at 
the time was technically still an active player in the NFL, although the 
St. Louis Rams eventually cut him after a series of injuries) substituted 
for Bettis that week. At the end of the 2006 season, Sharpe's contract 
was apparently terminated, and former New York Giants running back Tiki 
Barber replaced him in 2007.[5] Keith Olbermann, then host of MSNBC's Countdown, 
was named as another co-host.[6] In addition, Costas and Collinsworth hosted 
the halftime show for the Georgia Tech–Notre Dame game on September 1, 
2007; this turned out to be a one-shot promotional appearance. For the 
2013 season (from September 23 to December 15, 2013), Football Night in 
America averaged 4.123 million viewers between 7:00 and 7:29 p.m. Eastern 
Time; 4.960 million between 7:30 and 7:58 p.m. Eastern and 11.677 million 
between 8:00 and 8:22 p.m. Eastern.[7] The November 2, 2014 broadcast averaged 
3.408 million viewers between 7:30 and 7:58 p.m. Eastern Time, and 10.124 
