For Love of the Game (sometimes misconstrued as For the Love of the Game) 
is a 1999 American sport drama film directed by Sam Raimi and written by 
Dana Stevens based on Michael Shaara's novel of the same title. The film 
follows the perfect game performance of an aging star baseball pitcher 
as he deals with the pressures of pitching in Yankee Stadium in his final 
outing by calming himself with memories about a long term relationship 
with Kelly Preston. The play-by-play of the game is announced by longtime 
Brooklyn/Los Angeles Dodgers baseball broadcaster Vin Scully, who himself 
has called four perfect games in his career, and Steve Lyons. The Detroit 
Tigers travel to New York to play a season-ending series against the New 
York Yankees. At 63–97, the team has long since been eliminated from playoff 
contention and are playing for nothing but pride against the Yankees, who 
have a chance to clinch the American League East with a win. For 40-year-old 
pitcher Billy Chapel, however, this may end up being the most significant 
24 hours of his life. In his Manhattan hotel suite, Billy awaits his girlfriend 
Jane Aubrey, but she doesn't show. The next morning, Billy is told by Tigers' 
owner Gary Wheeler that the team has been sold and that the new owners' 
first move will be to end Billy's 19-year tenure with the Tigers by trading 
him to the San Francisco Giants. Billy also learns from Jane that she is 
leaving that same day to accept a job offer in London. Billy is a famous, 
accomplished pitcher, but has a losing record this season, is near the 
end of his career and is also recovering from a hand injury. Wheeler hints 
that Billy should consider retiring rather than join another team. As he 
goes to Yankee Stadium to make his last start of the year, Billy begins 
reflecting about Jane, detailing how they met five years prior. These flashbacks 
are interspersed within the game, along with glimpses of Jane watching 
the game on a television at the airport. As the game progresses, with friend 
and catcher Gus Sinski aware that something is on Billy's mind other than 
baseball, Billy dominates the Yankees' batters, often talking to himself 
on how to pitch each one. While in the dugout resting between innings, 
Billy also reflects how his relationship with Jane was strained by his 
shutting her out of his life after he suffered a career-threatening injury 
in the off-season. The pain of pitching is getting worse as the game goes 
on. Billy is so caught up in his thoughts that he does not realize he is 
pitching a perfect game until he looks at the scoreboard in the bottom 
of the eighth inning. Gus confirms that no one has reached base, and says 
that the whole team is rallying behind Billy to do whatever it takes to 
keep the perfect game bid alive. Billy's shoulder pain has become intense 
by this point, and after he throws his first two pitches of the inning 
well out of the strike zone, Tigers manager Frank Perry makes the call 
to warm up two relief pitchers in the bullpen. The count goes to 3–0 before 
Billy recalls pitching to his father (now deceased) in the back yard. He 
rallies and throws a strike, then gets the batter out on the next pitch. 
Before the Tigers take the field for the bottom of the ninth inning, Billy 
has final ruminations about his career and his love for Jane. He autographs 
a baseball for Wheeler, who has been like a father to him for many years. 
Along with a signature at the end, Billy inscribes the ball with "Tell 
them I'm through. For love of the game." After finishing the perfect game, 
Billy sits alone in his hotel room as the realization sinks in that everything 
he has been and done for the past 19 years is over. Despite his amazing 
accomplishment, Billy weeps not only for the loss of baseball, but for 
the other love of his life, Jane. The next morning, Billy goes to the airport 
to inquire about a flight for London. Jane had missed her flight the night 
before so she could watch the end of his perfect game. Finding her there 
waiting for her plane, they embrace and reconcile. The pitching coach who 
prepared Costner for this role was former New York Yankees/Milwaukee Brewers 
middle reliever, Mike Buddie. Buddie also had a small speaking role in 
the film as the character Jack Spellman. The Yankees manager is played 
by Augie Garrido, former head coach of the University of Texas Longhorns. 
Garrido is the former head baseball coach of California State University 
Fullerton, which is Costner's alma mater. The film received mixed reviews 
from critics. For Love of the Game has a 46% rating on Rotten Tomatoes 
based on 93 reviews.[9] In Roger Ebert's review, he gave the film 1 and 
a half stars out of 4 writing, "'For Love of the Game' is about the kinds 
of people who give the wrong answers. It's the most lugubrious and soppy 
love story in many a moon, a step backward for director Sam Raimi after 
A Simple Plan, and yet another movie in which Kevin Costner plays a character 
who has all the right window dressing but is neither juicy nor interesting."[10] 
The film opened at #2 with a weekend gross of $13,041,685 from 2,829 theaters 
for a per venue average of $7,023.[11] Ultimately, For Love of the Game 
grossed only $35,188,640 domestically and an additional $10,924,000 overseas 
to a total of $46,112,640 worldwide. Based on an estimated $80 million 
budget, the film was a box office bomb.[2] Costner earned a Golden Raspberry 
