Fordham University (/ˈfɔːrdəm/) is a private, nonprofit, coeducational 
research university[6] in New York City, United States. It was founded 
by the Catholic Diocese of New York in 1841 as St. John's College, placed 
in the care of the Society of Jesus shortly thereafter, and has since become 
an independent institution under a lay board of trustees, which describes 
the university as "in the Jesuit tradition."[7] Fordham is composed of 
ten constituent colleges, four of which are for undergraduates and six 
of which are for postgraduates. It enrolls approximately 15,000 students 
across three campuses in New York State: Rose Hill in the Bronx, Lincoln 
Center in Manhattan and Westchester in West Harrison. In addition to these 
campuses, the university maintains a study abroad center in the United 
Kingdom and field offices in Spain and South Africa. Fordham awards the 
Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Science, and Bachelor of Fine Arts degrees, 
as well as various masters and doctoral degrees.[4] The 2017 edition of 
U.S. News & World Report lists Fordham as a "more selective" national university 
and ranks it tied for 60th in this category.[8] Fordham University School 
of Law is currently ranked 37th in the United States, while Fordham's graduate 
programs in business, English, history, social work, education, and sociology 
are ranked among the top 100 in the nation.[9] Fordham University has produced 
at least 102 Fulbright Scholars since 2003.[10] Fordham was founded as 
St. John's College in 1841 by the Irish-born coadjutor bishop (later archbishop) 
of the Diocese of New York, the Most Reverend John J. Hughes. The college 
was the first Catholic institution of higher education in the northeastern 
United States. In September 1840, Hughes purchased most of Rose Hill Manor 
in Fordham, New York, for slightly less than $30,000 with the intent of 
establishing St. Joseph's Seminary following the model of Mount Saint Mary's 
University of which he was an alumnus. "Rose Hill" was the name originally 
given to the site in 1787 by its owner, Robert Watts, a wealthy New York 
merchant, in honor of his family's ancestral home in Scotland. The seminary 
was paired with St. John's College, which opened at Rose Hill with a student 
body of six on June 21, 1841. The Reverend John McCloskey (later archbishop 
of New York and eventually the first American cardinal) was the school's 
first president, and the faculty were secular priests and lay instructors. 
The college presidency went through a succession of four diocesan priests 
in five years, including the Rev. James Roosevelt Bayley, a distant cousin 
of Theodore and Franklin D. Roosevelt and a nephew of St. Elizabeth Ann 
Seton. In 1845, the seminary church, Our Lady of Mercy, was built. The 
same year, Bishop Hughes convinced several Jesuit priests from the St. 
Mary's Colleges in Maryland and Kentucky to staff St. John's.[11] In 1846, 
the college received its charter from the New York State Legislature, and 
roughly three months later, the first Jesuits began to arrive. Bishop Hughes 
deeded the college over but retained title to the seminary property, about 
nine acres. In 1847, Fordham's first school in Manhattan opened. The school 
became the independently chartered College of St. Francis Xavier in 1861. 
It was also in 1847 that the American poet Edgar Allan Poe arrived in the 
village of Fordham and began a friendship with the college Jesuits that 
would last throughout his life. In 1849, he published his famed work "The 
Bells." Some traditions credit the college's church bells as the inspiration 
for this poem.[11] Poe also spent considerable time in the Fordham (then 
St. John's) Library, and even occasionally stayed overnight.[11] St. John's 
curriculum consisted of a junior division (i.e. the preparatory school), 
requiring four years of study in Latin, Greek, grammar, literature, history, 
geography, mathematics, and religion; and a senior division (i.e. the college), 
requiring three years study in "poetry" (humanities), rhetoric, and philosophy. 
Colonel Robert Gould Shaw, famed commander of the all-black 54th Massachusetts 
Volunteer Infantry American Civil War regiment, attended the junior division. 
An Artium Baccalaureus degree was earned for completion of both curricula, 
and an additional year of philosophy would earn a Magister Artium degree. 
There was also a "commercial" track similar to a modern business school, 
offered as an alternative to the Classical curriculum and resulting in 
a certificate instead of a degree. In 1855, the first student stage production, 
Henry IV, was presented. The seminary was closed in 1859, and the property 
was sold to the Jesuits in 1860 for $40,000.[11] A Congressional act creating 
instruction in military science and tactics at the college level resulted 
in St. John's bringing a cadet corps to campus. From 1885 to 1890, a veteran 
of the 7th U.S. Cavalry, Lt. Herbert C. Squires, built a cadet battalion 
to a strength of 200, which would provide the foundation for the modern 
ROTC unit at Fordham. The college built a science building in 1886, lending 
more legitimacy to science in the curriculum. In addition, a three-year 
Bachelor of Science degree was created. In 1897, academic regalia for students 
at Commencement was first adopted.[11] With the addition of law and medical 
schools in 1905, St. John's College became Fordham University in 1907. 
The name Fordham refers to the village of Fordham, in which the original 
Rose Hill campus is located. The village, in turn, drew its name from its 
location near a shallow crossing of the Bronx River ("ford by the hamlet"). 
When Fordham and several other Westchester County towns were consolidated 
into the Bronx at the turn of the twentieth century, the village became 
the borough's Fordham neighborhood. Still in existence today, it is located 
just to the west of the Rose Hill campus.[11] In 1908, Fordham University 
Press was established.[11] In 1912, the university opened the College of 
Pharmacy, which offered a three-year program in pharmacy. Not requiring 
its students to obtain bachelor's degrees until the late 1930s, the college 
had a mainly Jewish student body, and in recognition of that, the students 
were exempted from the then-required course in Catholic theology. The school's 
longtime dean, Jacob Diner, was also Jewish.[11] The College of St. Francis 
Xavier was closed in 1913, and various Fordham colleges were opened at 
the Woolworth Building in Manhattan to fill the void. Some divisions of 
the University including the law school were later moved to "the Vincent 
Astor Building" at 302 Broadway,[12] This commenced an unbroken string 
of instruction in Manhattan that became what is now Fordham College at 
Lincoln Center, where all of Fordham's Manhattan academic operations are 
centered today. .[11] The university closed its medical school in 1919, 
citing a lack of endowment and reduced university funds overall due to 
the First World War.[11] The Gabelli School of Business began in 1920 in 
Manhattan as the School of Accounting.[11] In 1944, the School of Professional 
and Continuing Studies was established, largely bolstered by returning 
veterans taking advantage of the GI Bill.[11] Though first established 
in 1882, Fordham gained a significant amount of national renown from its 
football program in the early 20th century. Fordham football played on 
some of the largest stages in sports, including games in front of sellout 
crowds at the Polo Grounds and Yankee Stadium, a Cotton Bowl appearance 
and a Sugar Bowl victory, as well as producing the famed Seven Blocks of 
Granite (including Vince Lombardi). On September 30, 1939, Fordham participated 
in the world’s first televised football game, defeating Waynesburg College, 
34–7. The university discontinued the program during World War II, reinstating 
it in 1946. However, it proved much less successful and too expensive to 
maintain, and was again discontinued in 1954, though would revive yet again 
as a NCAA Division III team in 1970 and Division I team in 1989. In 1961, 
the Lincoln Center campus opened as part of the Lincoln Square Renewal 
Project. The School of Law was the first to occupy the new campus, but 
the academic programs at 302 Broadway were moved to the new location in 
1969. At Rose Hill, the all-female Thomas More College began instruction 
in 1964.[11] In the late 1950s, as the Civil Rights Movement gathered momentum 
in the US, Fordham students and school officials expressed ambivalence 
about racial justice.[13] In the late 1960s, Fordham became a center of 
political activism and countercultural activity. At the Rose Hill Campus, 
the Fordham branch of Students for a Democratic Society organized opposition 
to the existence of the ROTC and military recruiters.[13] During this period, 
students routinely organized protests and class boycotts and used psychoactive 
drugs on campus open spaces.[11] In response to internal demands for a 
more “liberalized” curriculum, the university created Bensalem College 
in 1967. An experimental college with no set requirements and no grades, 
it was studied by a wide array of educators and reported on by such large-circulation 
publications of the day as Look, Esquire and the Saturday Review. The school 
closed in 1974. In 1969, students organized a sit-in on the main road leading 
to Rose Hill in response to an announcement that President Richard Nixon 
would be speaking on campus.[11] As a result of the sit-in, Nixon was forced 
to cancel his plans to speak.[11] A year later, students stormed the main 
administration building, occupying it for several weeks, and set fire to 
the Rose Hill faculty lounge.[11] It was during this period of activism 
that the university’s African and African American Studies Department, 
one of the first black studies departments in the nation, as well as the 
paper, the leftist student newspaper on campus, were founded.[11] While 
political activism has diminished considerably at the Rose Hill campus, 
it remains strong at the Lincoln Center campus, where students frequently 
organize protests and events in support of various political causes.[11] 
In 1969, the board of trustees was reorganized to include a majority of 
nonclerical members, which officially made the university an independent 
institution. The College of Pharmacy closed due to declining enrollment 
in 1972. Fordham College at Rose Hill merged with Thomas More College in 
1974, becoming coeducational.[11] Fordham Preparatory School, a four-year, 
all-male college preparatory school, was once integrated with the university 
and shares its founding. It became legally independent in 1972 and moved 
to its own facilities on the northwest corner of the Rose Hill campus; 
however, the school remains connected to the university in many ways.[14] 
In 1993, a twenty-story residence hall was added to the Lincoln Center 
campus to house 850 students. In 1996, the campus's undergraduate college 
changed its name to "Fordham College at Lincoln Center," having been called 
"The Liberal Arts College" and later "The College at Lincoln Center" since 
its creation in 1968.[11] Marymount College, an independent women's college 
founded by the Religious of the Sacred Heart of Mary in 1907, was consolidated 
into Fordham in July 2002. The school had been steeped in financial hardship 
since the 1970s. Located 25 miles (40 km) north of Manhattan in Tarrytown, 
New York, the college remained open, and its campus received a branch of 
the School of Professional and Continuing Studies as well as extensions 
of the graduate schools for education, social service, and business administration. 
In 2005, Fordham announced that Marymount College would be phased out; 
it awarded degrees to its final undergraduate class in May 2007. University 
administrators indicated that the campus would remain open for Fordham 
graduate programs in several disciplines. In the autumn of 2007, however, 
the university announced its intention to seek buyers for the Marymount 
campus. Administrators stated that the expenses required to support the 
programs at the campus far exceeded their demand. University officials 
estimated that the revenue gained from the proposed sale would not be greater 
than the expenses incurred maintaining and improving the campus since the 
merger with Marymount. President McShane stated that the university's decision 
was nonetheless a "painful" one. Fordham then indicated its intention to 
move the remaining programs from the Marymount campus to a new location 
in Harrison, New York by the autumn of 2008. On February 17, 2008, the 
university announced the sale of the campus for $27 million to EF Schools, 
a chain of private language instruction schools.[15] In 2014, Fordham University 
has successfully completed a five-year, $0.5 billion campaign, surpassing 
expectations by raising more than $0.54 billion over the five-year period.[16] 
The university is currently in the midst of a renovation and expansion 
of its Lincoln Center campus. It recently completed a new building for 
The Law School, as well as an undergraduate dormitory. The former law school 
building is being renovated to give the Gabelli School of Business a home 
in Manhattan, and long-term plans are under consideration for a new library 
building, as well as buildings to house the Graduate School of Social Service 
and the Graduate School of Education. Fordham's academic ideals are drawn 
from its Jesuit influences. The university promotes the Jesuit principles 
of cura personalis, which fosters a faculty and administrative respect 
for the individual student and all of his or her gifts and abilities; magis, 
which encourages students to challenge themselves and strive for excellence 
in their lives; and homines pro aliis, which intends to inspire service 
among members of the Fordham community.[7] All undergraduates at Fordham 
are required to complete the Core Curriculum, a distribution of 17 courses 
in nine disciplines: English, mathematical/computational reasoning, social 
science, philosophy and ethics, history, fine arts, religious studies, 
natural science, and modern or Classical languages. Based on the curriculum 
established by the Society of Jesus in the sixteenth century, the Core 
is shared by Jesuit schools all over the world and is intended to provide 
a sound liberal arts education.[17] Students are expected to fulfill most 
of the Core requirements prior to the completion of their sophomore year; 
a wide variety of courses can be applied to this endeavor.[18] Those students 
pursuing a Bachelor of Science degree complete a modified version of the 
Core.[19] Upon the completion of the Core Curriculum, students choose from 
approximately 50 major courses of study, in which they will receive their 
degree.[4] One option is the personalized interdisciplinary major, which 
allows students to create their own course of study across various disciplines.[20] 
The university is composed of four undergraduate and six graduate schools,[21] 
which are as follows: Through its undergraduate schools, Fordham offers 
a number of special academic programs for undergraduates, a selection of 
which are below: Fordham participates in the Inter-University Doctoral 
Consortium, which allows its doctoral students to take classes at a number 
of schools in the New York metropolitan area.[32] With the closure of its 
medical school in 1919 and its College of Pharmacy in 1972, Fordham ceased 
direct medical instruction on its campuses. Nevertheless, the university 
continues its tradition of medical education through a collaboration with 
the Albert Einstein College of Medicine at Yeshiva University. The partnership 
allows Fordham undergraduate and graduate science students to take classes, 
conduct research, and pursue early admission to select programs of Einstein. 
In addition, it involves a physician mentoring program, which permits students 
to shadow an attending physician at Einstein's Montefiore Medical Center.[33] 
In 2009, Fordham began negotiations with New York Medical College regarding 
the possible merger of the two institutions.[34] While the merger did not 
occur, the two schools maintain a close academic relationship in such ways 
as the provision of joint courses.[35] This relationship is expected to 
grow in the coming years.[36] The Fordham University Library System contains 
approximately two and a half million volumes, subscribes to over 65,000 
periodicals and electronic journals, and is a depository for United States 
Government documents.[37] In addition, the university's Interlibrary Loan 
office provides students and faculty with virtually unlimited access to 
the over 20 million volumes of the New York Public Library System as well 
as to media from the libraries of Columbia University, New York University, 
the City University of New York, and other libraries around the world.[38] 
Fordham's libraries include the William D. Walsh Family Library, ranked 
in 2004 as the fifth best collegiate library in the country,[39] and the 
Science Library at the Rose Hill campus, the Gerald M. Quinn Library and 
the Leo T. Kissam Memorial Law Library at the Lincoln Center campus, and 
the Media Center at the Westchester campus. In addition to the university's 
formal libraries, several academic departments, research institutes, and 
student organizations maintain their own literary collections.[40] The 
Rose Hill campus's Duane Library, despite its name, is no longer a library, 
though it still contains reading and study space for students.[41] Fordham 
maintains several special collections that are housed in various museums 
and galleries on campus. The Fordham Museum of Greek, Etruscan, and Roman 
Art is located at the Rose Hill campus and contains more than 200 artifacts 
from Classical antiquity. A gift from alumnus William D. Walsh, it is the 
largest collection of its kind in the New York metropolitan area.[42] In 
addition, the university maintains an extensive art collection, which is 
housed in exhibition spaces at the Rose Hill and Lincoln Center campuses 
and in galleries around New York City.[43] The collection will eventually 
be on permanent display at the Fordham University Art Gallery, which is 
currently under construction at the Lincoln Center campus.[44] Finally, 
the university possesses a sizable collection of rare books, manuscripts, 
and other print media, which is housed in the O'Hare Special Collections 
Room at the Walsh Library.[45] The Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement 
of Teaching classifies Fordham as a doctoral university with high research 
activity (RU/H).[6] Facilities on campus for this type of research include 
the Louis Calder Center, an 114-acre biological field station and the middle 
site along a 81-mile (130 km) urban-forest transect known as the Urban-Rural 
Gradient Experiment; the William Spain Seismic Observatory, a data collection 
unit for the US Geological Survey; and other facilities.[46][47] It is 
a member of the Bronx Scientific Research Consortium, which also includes 
the New York Botanical Garden, the Bronx Zoo, the Albert Einstein College 
of Medicine at Yeshiva University, and Montefiore Medical Center.[48] Furthermore, 
Fordham faculty have conducted research with such institutions as the Memorial 
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Los Alamos National Laboratory, and other 
organizations around the world.[49] The majority of the university's research 
endeavors involve the humanities and social sciences.[clarification needed] 
As a result, Fordham University Press, the university's publishing house 
and an affiliate of Oxford University Press, publishes primarily in these 
subjects.[50] It hosts an Undergraduate Research Symposium every year during 
the spring semester and publishes an Undergraduate Research Journal in 
conjunction with the symposium.[51][52] In addition, it facilitates research 
opportunities for undergraduates with such organizations as the National 
Science Foundation, The Cloisters, and the American Museum of Natural History.[53][54] 
Fordham's undergraduate schools all offer honors programs for their students.[55] 
The programs' curricula are modified versions of the Core Curriculum; for 
example, the Fordham College Honors Program offers a Great Books curriculum 
with seminar-style classes and a senior research thesis in each student's 
major. Most honors students are inducted into the programs upon admission 
to the university, though some are invited at the end of their first year. 
Each program has a designated study space for its members, including Alpha 
House for the Fordham College Honors Program and the honors wing of Hughes 
Hall for the Global Business Honors Program. Upon graduating from the university, 
honors students receive the designation of in cursu honorum on their diploma 
and transcripts.[56] In addition to its honors programs, Fordham has chapters 
of several honor societies on campus, including but not limited to the 
following: The Campion Institute is the university's office for academic 
fellowships and scholarships. Its function is to raise awareness of fellowship 
opportunities among students, counsel interested students about their eligibility 
for various programs, and advise fellowship candidates during the application 
process.[57] The work of the Campion Institute helped make Fordham one 
of the top producers of U.S. Fulbright students of 2012.[58] The Matteo 
Ricci Society is an honor society for Fordham students who are likely candidates 
for academic fellowships. Students are invited to join based on academic 
success and other factors. The society assists its members in preparing 
applications for fellowships, coordinating internships, and obtaining funding 
for research endeavors.[59] The Rev. William E. Boyle, S.J. Society is 
a parallel organization for business students.[60] Through its International 
and Study Abroad Programs (ISAP) Office, Fordham provides its students 
with over 130 study abroad opportunities. The programs range in duration 
from six weeks to a full academic year and vary in focus from cultural 
and language immersion to internship and service learning. Some of the 
programs are organized by Fordham itself, such as those in London, United 
Kingdom; Granada, Spain; and Pretoria, South Africa; while others are operated 
by partner institutions like Georgetown University, the University of Oxford, 
and the Council on International Educational Exchange (CIEE).[61] In addition 
to the ISAP programs, the university's constituent schools offer a range 
of study abroad programs that cater to their specific areas of study.[62] 
For the undergraduate class of 2019, Fordham accepted 20,366 of the 42,811 
applicants (47.6%) and enrolled 2,211.[3] The middle 50% range of SAT scores 
for enrolled freshmen was 580-670 for critical reading, 590-680 for math, 
and 590-680 for writing, while the ACT Composite middle 50% range was 27–31.[3] 
The average high school GPA of incoming freshmen was 3.64.[3] Fordham placed 
as follows in the most recent university rankings:[63] Fordham participates 
in the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities' University 
and College Accountability Network, which was created to counter the emergence 
of formal college rankings.[69] Paris School of Mines' listing, which reviews 
over 3,000 educational institutions around the world, selects some 700 
schools and ranks them according to their ability to place their graduates 
in Fortune 500 CEO and leading positions, ranked Fordham University 63rd 
on the list in 2009 but the research has been updated and Fordham is now 
listed as 16th.[72] Fordham ranked 93rd amongst the World’s top 100 universities 
for producing millionaires, as compiled by THE.[73] QS ranked Fordham 701+ 
in 2015.[74] Fordham has three main campuses, which are located in and 
around New York City: Rose Hill in the Bronx, Lincoln Center in Manhattan, 
and Westchester in West Harrison. In addition, it maintains and utilizes 
various academic, extracurricular, and residential facilities throughout 
New York City and New York State and around the world.[4] The Rose Hill 
campus, established in 1841 by bishop John Hughes, is home to Fordham College 
at Rose Hill, the Gabelli School of Business, and a division of the School 
of Professional and Continuing Studies, as well as the Graduate Schools 
of Arts and Sciences and Religion and Religious Education. Situated on 
85 acres (34.4 ha) in the central Bronx, it is among the largest privately 
owned green spaces in New York City, situated just north of the Belmont 
neighborhood on Fordham Road.[4] At one time spanning over 100 acres, the 
university sold 30 acres east of Southern Boulevard to the New York City 
government to become part of the New York Botanical Garden (NYBG).[75] 
The NYBG is now an independent organization; however, Fordham students 
and staff have virtually unlimited access to the garden during its normal 
operating hours.[76] Rose Hill is located just to the north of the Belmont 
neighborhood of the Bronx, also known as the "Real Little Italy of New 
York."[77] Its Collegiate Gothic architecture, expansive lawns, ivy-covered 
buildings, and cobblestone streets were featured in MSNBC's 2008 edition 
of "America's Prettiest College Campuses".[78] Rose Hill is largely made 
up of nineteenth-century architecture with some contemporary buildings. 
The campus is home to several structures on the National Register of Historic 
Places.[79] One such building is the University Church, which was built 
in 1845 as a seminary chapel and parish church for the surrounding community. 
It contains the altar from the Old St. Patrick's Cathedral, as well as 
stained glass windows given to the university by King Louis Philippe I 
of France. The windows are particularly notable for their connection to 
a workshop in Sevres, France, where the earliest stages of the Gothic Revival 
took place.[80] There are eleven residence halls on campus, including a 
residential college and nine Integrated Learning Communities that each 
cater to a particular year (freshman, sophomore, etc.) or area of study 
(science, leadership, etc.).[81] In addition, the campus contains two residences, 
a retirement home, and an infirmary for Jesuit priests.[82] Rose Hill is 
served by the Fordham station of the Metro-North Railroad, which ends at 
Grand Central Terminal. Public transit buses stop adjacent to campus exits, 
and three New York City Subway stations are within walking distance. The 
university also provides a shuttle service between its three main campuses 
(the "Ram Van"), which is headquartered at Rose Hill. About 7,000 undergraduates 
and graduates are enrolled at the campus.[4] The Bronx Zoo and the New 
York Botanical Garden are both adjacent to the eastern edge of the campus. 
In 1954, New York City's Robert Moses proposed that Fordham might "be interested 
in an alternative [to renting space in the New York Coliseum] involving 
a new building in a part of the area to the north of Columbus Circle to 
be redeveloped under Title One of the Federal Housing Law... If this idea 
appeals to you I will ask Mr. Lebwohl to see you and explain it in greater 
detail."[83] In March 1958, Mayor Robert Wagner signed the deeds transferring 
the Lincoln Center campus to Fordham University.[84] The Lincoln Center 
campus is home to Fordham College at Lincoln Center and a division of the 
School of Professional and Continuing Studies, as well as the School of 
Law, the Graduate Schools of Education and Social Service, and the Fordham 
School of Business. The 8-acre (32,000 m2) campus occupies the area from 
West 60th Street to West 62nd Street between Columbus and Amsterdam Avenues, 
placing it in the cultural heart of Manhattan.[4] It is served by public 
transit buses; the A,B,C,D, and 1 Subway trains, which are accessed at 
the 59th Street/Columbus Circle station; and the university's Ram Van shuttle. 
Approximately 8,000 undergraduate and graduate students are enrolled at 
Lincoln Center, of which about 1,000 reside in University housing.[4] The 
campus currently consists of the Leon Lowenstein Building, McMahon Hall, 
the Gerald M. Quinn Library, and the Doyle Building. In Fall of 2014, the 
new Freshman residence dormitory Mckeon Hall was opened, along with the 
new Fordham Law School. Lincoln Center has two grassy plazas, built one 
level up from the street atop the Quinn Library. The larger expanse was 
once a barren cement landscape known as "Robert Moses Plaza;" the smaller 
is known as "St. Peter's Garden" and contains a memorial to the Fordham 
students and alumni who perished in the September 11, 2001 attacks. The 
Toward 2016 Strategic Plan prescribes a complete reconfiguration of the 
Lincoln Center campus, to be completed by 2032.[85] The first phase of 
the project, which includes renovations of the Lowenstein Building as well 
as a new Law School building and residence hall designed by the distinguished 
architectural firm of Pei Cobb Freed & Partners, were completed in 2014.[44][85] 
In 2014, Fordham University bought a building located at 45 Columbus Avenue 
and incorporated it in its Lincoln Center campus. The nine-story building 
is located directly across from the former Law School building.[86] Fordham 
University at Lincoln Center also shares a parking lot with New York Institute 
of Technology, which is located just across the street from Fordham University's 
Lincoln Center campus. The Westchester campus is home to divisions of the 
School of Professional and Continuing Studies, the Martino Graduate School 
of Business Administration, and the Graduate Schools of Education and Social 
Service. It consists of a three-story, 62,500-square-foot (5,810 m2) building 
on 32 acres (12.9 ha) landscaped with a stream and pond. Fordham signed 
a 20-year lease for the facility, which includes 26 "smart" classrooms, 
faculty and administrative offices, a media center, a food service facility, 
and indoor and outdoor meeting areas. In 2008, the university spent over 
$8 million renovating the building in order to increase its sustainability.[87] 
The campus is served by the Ram Van as well as the White Plains station 
of the Metro-North Railroad, approximately 4 miles (6 km) away in White 
Plains, New York. The train station and the campus are connected by the 
Westchester County Bus System ("The Bee Line"). Fordham operates the Louis 
Calder Center, a biological field station 30 miles (50 km) north of New 
York City in Armonk, New York. It consists of 114 acres (0.46 km2) forested 
with a 10-acre (40,000 m2) lake and 19 buildings. The structures house 
laboratories and classrooms, offices for faculty and administrators, a 
library, and residences.[46] Outside the United States, the university 
maintains a small campus at Heythrop College, the Jesuit philosophy and 
theology school of the University of London. The campus is home to several 
undergraduate business and liberal arts programs as well as Fordham College 
at Lincoln Center's London Dramatic Academy.[88] In addition, Fordham operates 
field offices in Granada, Spain, and Pretoria, South Africa; which house 
undergraduate study abroad programs.[61] Finally, the university provides 
faculty for the Beijing International MBA Program at Peking University 
in China. The program has been ranked #1 in China by Fortune and Forbes 
Magazines since its creation by Fordham in 1998.[89] Relations between 
Fordham and its surrounding neighborhoods vary according to campus. At 
Rose Hill, the University actively recruits Bronx students from disadvantaged 
backgrounds through the Higher Education Opportunity Program.[90] In addition, 
about 80% of students participate in local community service.[91] The relationship 
between the Lincoln Center campus and some of the Upper West Side community 
residents have been strained, over campus development. In 2010 the New 
York State Supreme Court dismissed a lawsuit against Fordham brought by 
the Alfred Condominium Complex. The suit was filed in response to the University’s 
expansion plans at Lincoln Center and their expected visual and auditory 
impact on the surrounding community.[92] The Lincoln Center campus does, 
however, have a lively connection to the artistic scene in Manhattan through 
its dance and theater productions and visual art exhibitions.[93] Fordham 
sponsors over 200 clubs and organizations for its undergraduate and graduate 
students, of which about 100 are based at the Rose Hill campus and the 
rest are based at the Lincoln Center and Westchester campuses. Some of 
these organizations are described below:[94] Global Outreach (GO!) is a 
cultural immersion and service program under the auspices of the Office 
of Mission and Ministry at Fordham University, where students learn about 
various issues of social, economic, political and environmental injustice 
while living a simple lifestyle that fosters communal and spiritual growth.[95] 
Teams consist of approximately 10 students, one student leader, and one 
chaperone to live, work, and learn with partnering organizations. Building 
on the Jesuit tenets of Men and Women for Others, Magis, and Contemplatives 
in Action, GO! has grown over the years to include more than 30 projects 
throughout the United States and countries in Asia, Africa, Europe, and 
Latin America.[95][96] Global Outreach teams travel during winter, spring, 
and summer breaks. The projects vary in both length and scope—some projects 
are one week in duration, while others are more than two weeks long. In 
addition, some of the projects focus on service-related experiences, such 
as working with Habitat for Humanity in Waynesburg, Pa., while others are 
immersion experiences, such as living with host families in Johannesburg, 
South Africa.[95] GO!'s roots stretch back as far as the 1950s, when Fordham 
students were participating in various service and immersion projects. 
In the 1970s and 1980s, it became known as the Mexico project. In 1988, 
students coined the name Global Outreach.[95][96] The university supports 
23 men's and women's varsity athletic teams, as well as various club and 
intramural sports. The Fordham mascot is the ram, and its colors are maroon 
and white. In most varsity sports, the Rams compete in Division I of the 
National Collegiate Athletic Association and are a member of the Atlantic 
10 Conference. The football team, however, plays in NCAA Division I FCS 
and is an associate member of the Patriot League, the most academically 
selective NCAA conference after the Ivy League.[4][97] The Rams football 
program boasts a national championship title (1929), two bowl game appearances 
(1941 and 1942), two Patriot League championships (2002 and 2007) and corresponding 
NCAA Division I Football Championship appearances, and the 15th most wins 
of any college football program.[citation needed] It is best known, however, 
for the "Seven Blocks of Granite," a name given to the team's 1928 and 
1936 offensive lines. The 1936 team was coached by "Sleepy" Jim Crowley, 
one of the University of Notre Dame's famed "Four Horsemen," and included 
Vince Lombardi, the legendary professional football coach. Furthermore, 
it is credited with inspiring the term "Ivy League" after New York Herald 
Tribune sportswriter Caswell Adams compared it to the squads of Princeton 
and Yale, two powerhouses of the day. Adams remarked disparagingly of the 
latter two, saying that they were "only Ivy League." There are currently 
four Rams in the National Football League. Moreover, the Los Angeles Rams 
NFL franchise was named in honor of Fordham's football heritage.[98] The 
University's men's basketball program also has an impressive heritage, 
boasting four NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Championship and 16 National 
Invitational Tournament appearances. During the 1971 season, the program 
enjoyed its best campaign ever, compiling a 26–3 record and earning a #9 
national ranking. That team was coached by Digger Phelps, later the renowned 
University of Notre Dame men's basketball coach and its player's roster 
included Peter "PJ" Carlesimo, the former head coach of the Brooklyn Nets 
NBA franchise. Fordham basketball plays in the Rose Hill Gymnasium (also 
known as "The Prairie"), the oldest on-campus venue currently in use by 
an NCAA Division I basketball team. The Rams baseball program is among 
the oldest in the nation and was the first college baseball team to play 
the game according to modern rules. The program has launched the careers 
of dozens of Major League Baseball players, including National Baseball 
Hall of Fame inductee Frankie Frisch (also known as the "Fordham Flash"). 
In April 2010, a Fordham baserunner made national headlines when he leaped 
over an opposing team's catcher to score a run during a game. The incident 
was dubbed the "Fordham Flip."[99] The baseball program has recorded the 
most wins of any N.C.A.A. Division I baseball program.[100] There are eight 
women's teams on campus. The women's basketball team won the Atlantic 10 
championship in 2014, advancing to the first round of the NCAA Women's 
Division I Basketball Championship.[101] This feat came just 6 years after 
the team set an NCAA record for the worst season, finishing the season 
0–29 in 2008.[102] The university's most successful programs include track 
and field, which claims world record holder and Olympic gold medalist Tom 
Courtney as an alumnus; sailing, which is headquartered at the Morris Yacht 
and Beach Club in City Island, Bronx; crew, which rows out of the Peter 
Jay Sharp Boathouse on the Harlem River and regularly attends such prestigious 
regattas as the Henley Royal Regatta in the United Kingdom; and golf, which 
is affiliated with the Winged Foot Golf Club in Mamaroneck, New York. The 
University has a number of publications, including The Observer, the award-winning[103] 
newspaper for the Lincoln Center campus; The Ram, the university's journal 
of record;[104] and the paper, a student-run free-speech publication.[105] 
WFUV is Fordham's 50,000-watt radio station, broadcasting on 90.7 FM. Founded 
in 1947, the station serves approximately 350,000 listeners weekly in the 
New York City metropolitan area. It is a National Public Radio affiliate 
and has an adult alternative format on weekdays and a variety format on 
weekends.[106] In 2012, The Princeton Review ranked WFUV the 10th most 
popular college radio station in the United States.[107] Fordham offers 
a wide variety of performing arts groups, spreading from its non-major 
theater groups at Lincoln Center and Rose Hill (the Mimes and Mummers, 
Fordham Experimental Theater, the Theatrical Outreach Group, Splinter Group) 
to choirs (University Choir, Schola Cantorum, Gloria Dei Choir), to its 
considerable a cappella groups spanning both campuses (Fordham Ramblers, 
Satin Dolls, b-Sides, Hot Notes, F-sharps). Fordham College at Rose Hill 
has a long, rich history of college theater. The Mimes and Mummers, the 
oldest entirely student run club at Fordham University and one of the oldest 
college theater groups in the United States, was founded in 1855 as the 
Saint John's Dramatic Society.[108] The Mimes put on two musicals, a drama, 
and a comedy each year, which all must be non-student written shows, as 
well as workshops designed to help students at Fordham learn about theater. 
The club receives a budget from the school, allowing them to hire professional 
directors, music directors, and choreographers as a production calls for, 
but each show remains fully student produced, with all elements of technical 
design being run by members on the club's executive board.[109] In 1905, 
with the construction of Collins Hall, Fordham University became the first 
place on the East Coast of the United States to have a theater in the round. 
The Penthouse Theatre, located on the fourth floor of Collins Hall, served 
as a place for both professional show debuts to occur as well as a home 
for theater groups like the Mimes and Mummers. The Penthouse Theatre was 
turned into office space by Fordham University in 1966.[108] In addition 
to The Mimes and Mummers, Fordham University's Rose Hill campus also has 
two additional theater clubs, Fordham Experimental Theater (FET), and the 
Theatrical Outreach Program (TOP). The Fordham Debate Society (FDS) is 
based at the Rose Hill campus and is the oldest existing club at the university, 
having been founded in 1852. The club competes in the American Parliamentary 
Debate Association, which was founded at the university's annual debate 
tournament in 1982. FDS regularly places among the top teams in the country, 
and it ranks well in the World Universities Debating Championship standings.[110] 
The purpose of Campus Ministry at Fordham is to provide "opportunities 
and resources for spiritual growth to members of [the university] community." 
It offers programming for more than 15 faith traditions in such areas as 
worship, music ministry, and social ministry. One of its most popular initiatives 
is its retreats, which are held at the university's McGrath House of Prayer 
in Goshen, New York, and other retreat houses in the New York City metropolitan 
area.[111][112] In addition to its Jesuit traditions, the university also 
has organizations devoted to Judaism, Islam, and other religions. The Dorothy 
Day Center for Service and Justice is responsible for overseeing Fordham's 
various community service and humanitarian initiatives. Grounded in the 
Jesuit principle of homines pro aliis ("men and women for others"), the 
center organizes projects in such areas as poverty, hunger, education, 
and disaster relief.[113] As a result of the Dorothy Day Center's efforts, 
the university performed approximately one million hours of service in 
2011, ranking it sixth in the country in terms of community outreach.[114] 
A popular volunteer location among students is the Society of Jesus New 
York Province Health Care Center at the Rose Hill campus, where those students 
interested in nursing can gain practical experience in the field.[115] 
The Dorothy Day Center also offers a pre-orientation program for incoming 
Fordham Freshmen called "Urban Plunge" that introduces students to themes 
of social justice across New York City.[116] The Fordham Military Science 
program is available to all undergraduate and graduate students, regardless 
of their chosen course of study. It is also available to students at more 
than fifty other colleges and universities in the New York metropolitan 
area. The program consists of membership and training in the Ram Battalion 
of the Army Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) and a sequence of military 
science classes taught on campus.[117] Participants in the program are 
also eligible to enroll in the Air Force ROTC program at Manhattan College 
and the Navy ROTC program at SUNY Maritime College.[117] In 2011, Fordham 
Military Science began offering a combat nursing program in conjunction 
with Regis University and the University of Colorado at Denver.[118] The 
Military Science program has several notable alumni, including former Secretary 
of State Colin Powell, four-star General John M. Keane, and at least four 
recipients of the Medal of Honor. Furthermore, it has been distinguished 
as being in the top fifteen percent of military science programs in the 
country.[117] In addition to its ROTC program, the university contributes 
to military education through its Veterans Initiative, which provides full-tuition 
scholarships and other benefits to post-9/11 veterans of the U.S. military. 
Because of the initiative, Fordham was named one of the 25 best colleges 
in the country for veterans in 2013 by Military History Monthly Magazine.[119] 
Fordham does not sponsor any Greek letter fraternities or sororities. Councils 
of the Knights of Columbus, the national Catholic service fraternity for 
men, and its sister organization, the Columbiettes, are hosted on campus. 
In addition, Fordham sponsors a chapter of Pershing Rifles, the national 
military fraternity.[117] During its 175 years in existence, the university 
has developed many traditions. Some of them are described below: In addition 
to its traditions, Fordham is associated with a number of symbols, some 
of which are discussed below: Fordham has over 175,000 alumni spread throughout 
the world, with 40 regional alumni chapters in the US and abroad.[130] 
Donald J. Trump, billionaire, and the 45th President of the United States 
of America, who attended the university, but left with no degree. Geraldine 
Ferraro, the first female Vice Presidential candidate of a major political 
party in the United States, attended Fordham, as did three current members 
of the United States House of Representatives and numerous past members 
of Congress, including at least two United States Senators. Current New 
York State Governor, Andrew Cuomo, is an alumnus. A number of Fordham graduates 
have served at the highest levels of the U.S. Executive Branch, including 
John E. Potter, former Postmaster General of the United States; William 
J. Casey, Director of U.S. Central Intelligence from 1981 to 1987; John 
N. Mitchell, former U.S. Attorney General; and Bernard M. Shanley, Deputy 
Chief of Staff and White House Counsel to President Dwight D. Eisenhower, 
and John O. Brennan, current Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. 
Fordham claims a number of distinguished military honorees, including three 
Medal of Honor recipients and a number of notable generals, including General 
John "Jack" Keane, retired four-star general and former Vice Chief of Staff 
for the United States Army, and Major General Martin Thomas McMahon, decorated 
American Civil War officer. Fordham has produced college and university 
presidents for at least 10 institutions around the United States, including 
two for Georgetown University and one each for Columbia University and 
New York University. Francis Cardinal Spellman, the late Archbishop of 
the Metropolitan See of New York, was also a Fordham graduate. Fordham 
alumnus James B. Donovan, who defended Rudolph Abel in his spy trial and 
later negotiated the release of Francis Gary Powers, is the subject of 
Steven Spielberg's Oscar-nominated film Bridge of Spies.[131] Business 
and finance magnates that have attended Fordham include Anne M. Mulcahy, 
retired Chairperson and CEO of Xerox and named one of the "50 Most Powerful 
Women in Business" in 2006 by Fortune Magazine; Rose Marie Bravo, Vice 
Chairman and former CEO of Burberry and named one of the "50 Most Powerful 
Women in Business Outside the United States" in 2004 and 2005 by Fortune 
Magazine; E. Gerald Corrigan, former President of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York; Maria Elena Lagomasino, CEO of JP Morgan Private Bank from 
2001 to 2005 and currently on the board of directors of Coca-Cola; Joe 
Moglia, Chairman and former CEO of TD Ameritrade; John Leahy, Chief Operating 
Officer of Airbus; Stephen J. Hemsley, CEO of UnitedHealth Group; Wellington 
Mara, former owner of the New York Giants; John D. Finnegan, Chairman, 
President, and CEO of Chubb Corporation; Mario Gabelli, billionaire and 
founder and CEO of GAMCO Investors; Lorenzo Mendoza, billionaire and CEO 
of Empresas Polar; Eugene Shvidler, billionaire and international oil tycoon. 
In the media and communications field, Fordham has produced Charles Osgood, 
three-time Emmy Award and two-time Peabody Award-winning journalist for 
CBS and Radio Hall of Fame inductee; Louis Boccardi, retired President 
of the Associated Press; Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist Loretta Tofani; 
Jim Dwyer, the Pulitzer Prize winning columnist and author; G. Gordon Liddy, 
political operative for President Richard Nixon, leader of the White House 
Plumbers, political pundit, and radio show host; and Baseball Hall of Fame 
broadcaster and Radio Hall of Famer Vin Scully. Fordham's list of contributions 
to the arts and entertainment industry includes Denzel Washington, two-time 
Academy Award and two-time Golden Globe Award-winning actor; Alan Alda, 
six-time Emmy Award and six-time Golden Globe Award-winning actor; Dylan 
McDermott; actress Taylor Schilling; actress and comedian Regina Hall; 
singer-songwriter Lana Del Rey; Mary Higgins Clark, best-selling suspense 
novelist; Don DeLillo, acclaimed novelist and Pulitzer Prize nominee; Robert 
Sean Leonard, Academy Award nominated Dead Poets Society and Emmy and Golden 
Globe winning television show actor, House actor; Bob Keeshan, television's 
multiple award-winning "Captain Kangaroo;" John LaFarge, painter, muralist, 
and designer of stained-glass windows; Virginia O'Hanlon, who, as a child, 
wrote a letter to the New York Sun that prompted the famous response "Yes, 
Virginia, there is a Santa Claus." Among the sportsmen who attended Fordham 
are Frankie Frisch (known as the "Fordham Flash"), Baseball Hall of Fame 
inductee; Vince Lombardi, football coaching legend; Bill Chadwick, Hockey 
Hall of Fame inductee; Tom Courtney, two-time Olympic gold medalist and 
holder of the world record in the 880-yard run; and Steve Bellán, the first 
Latin American to play Major League Baseball.[132] Fordham's campuses have 
been featured in a number of films, including the following: The Adjustment 
Bureau, Awake, A Beautiful Mind, Center Stage, Cheerleaders Beach Party, 
The Exorcist, Fair Game, The Gambler, Godspell, The Iron Major, Kinsey, 
Love Story, Quiz Show, Solitary Man, The Verdict, and Wall Street 2: Money 
Never Sleeps. The 1993 crime drama A Bronx Tale is set in the Belmont neighborhood 
adjacent to the Rose Hill campus.[134] Fordham is listed as one of the 
10 most filmed college campus locations.[135] Television programs filmed 
at Fordham include Shattered Vows, a 1984 television film starring Valerie 
Bertinelli, which portrays the true story of a young nun in the 1960s who 
goes to Fordham for her master's degree and falls in love with a priest; 
White Collar; Naked City; Saturday Night Live; Chappelle's Show; and the 
2009 U2 performance on Good Morning America. The music video for the single 
What's Luv? by Fat Joe and Ashanti was filmed in the gymnasium at the Rose 
Hill campus.[134] Most recently the new show "Forever" shot a college campus 
location and used many scenes in and out of the new Gabelli building and 
McMahon dorm. In the second episode of the new CBS show "Madam Secretary", 
the Fordham commons are used in two scenes serving in lieu of Georgetown 
University. Fictional Fordham alumni include the title character of Michael 
Clayton, Ray Brocco of The Good Shepherd, Michael Patrick Flaherty of Spin 
City, Jacob Moore of Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps, Annie Norris of Life 
on Mars, Vinnie Terranova of Wiseguy, Nick Rice of Law Abiding Citizen, 
Bruno Tattaglia of The Godfather, The father of Gabe Burton in Little Manhattan 
and Dave Norris of The Adjustment Bureau.[134] Sonek Pran of Star Trek: 
A Singular Destiny is an alumnus of Fordham University in the 24th century.[136] 
In order to increase its sustainability, the university has committed to 
reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 30% in 2017. In addition, it has 
pledged to employ low-flow faucets and shower heads, use sustainable materials 
like reprocessed flooring, recycle up to 90% of its debris, and seek LEED 
Silver certification in its construction of new facilities on campus. Finally, 
the Department of Grounds Maintenance at Fordham has committed to making 
half of its vehicle fleet electric by 2016.[137] Fordham is affiliated 
with the following organizations:[138] In addition, the university and 
