Ford Christopher Frick (December 19, 1894 – April 8, 1978) was an American 
sportswriter and baseball executive. After working as a teacher and as 
a sportswriter for the New York American, he served as public relations 
director of the National League (NL), then as the league's president from 
1934 to 1951. He was the third Commissioner of Major League Baseball (MLB) 
from 1951 to 1965. While Frick was NL president, he had a major role in 
the establishment of the Baseball Hall of Fame as a museum that honors 
the best players in baseball history. He extinguished threats of a player 
strike in response to the racial integration of the major leagues. During 
Frick's term as commissioner, expansion occurred and MLB faced the threat 
of having its antitrust exemption revoked by Congress. He was elected to 
the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1970. The Ford C. Frick Award recognizes outstanding 
MLB broadcasters. Frick was born on a farm in Wawaka, Indiana, and went 
to high school in Rome City, Indiana.[1] He took classes at International 
Business College in Fort Wayne, then worked for a company that made engines 
for windmills.[1][2] He attended DePauw University, where he played first 
base for the DePauw baseball team and ran track.[1] He graduated in 1915.[3] 
He had been a member of Phi Kappa Psi fraternity.[4] Frick came to Colorado 
to play semipro baseball in Walsenburg.[5] After his stint as a baseball 
player, Frick lived in Colorado Springs, Colorado. He taught English at 
Colorado Springs High School and at Colorado College. Frick moonlighted 
for The Gazette, covering sports and news until he left to work for the 
War Department near the conclusion of World War I. When the war was over, 
Frick worked in Denver for the Rocky Mountain News. Frick returned to Colorado 
Springs to take a job with the Evening Telegraph, which later merged with 
The Gazette.[5] Around this time, he had given some thought to starting 
his own advertising agency.[6] In 1921, a flood devastated much of Pueblo, 
Colorado. When other reporters had flown in to cover the flood, their airplanes 
had become stuck in muddy conditions and they had been stranded in Pueblo. 
Frick had a pilot fly him there, but instead of landing, they circled low 
over Pueblo while Frick took notes and photographs. He was able to file 
his story a day earlier than other reporters. The recognition from the 
Pueblo flood helped Frick get a position with the New York American in 
1922.[5] Frick was also a broadcaster for WOR in New York. At WOR, he worked 
with Stan Lomax, who went on to a long career broadcasting sports in New 
York.[7] In 1934, he became the NL's public relations director, and then 
became president of the league later that year. In June 1937, Cardinals 
pitcher Dizzy Dean began to publicly criticize the NL and Frick. In response, 
Frick said that he was suspending Dean until the pitcher issued a written 
apology. Dean indicated that he would not apologize and that he would boycott 
the 1937 All-Star Game, suspended or not. The Cardinals made peace with 
Frick so that Dean could return to play. He appeared in the All-Star Game, 
but he sustained a toe injury in the game. The injury altered his delivery 
and he later injured his arm, never returning to All-Star form.[8] An American 
Communist Party newspaper known as the Daily Worker asked Frick in 1937 
about the feasibility of racially integrating baseball. Frick said that 
there was no rule discriminating against players on the basis of race. 
He said that professional baseball required ability, good habits and strong 
character. He asserted that he was not aware of a case in which race had 
played a role in the selection of a major league player.[9] In the late 
1930s, Frick played a central role in establishing the National Baseball 
Hall of Fame and Museum in Cooperstown, New York.[10] He gathered a team 
of representatives from the major news wire services, including Davis Walsh 
of the International News Service, Alan J. Gould of the Associated Press, 
and Henry L. Farrell of United Press International. They took the idea 
to the Baseball Writers Association of America and that organization became 
the voting body for Hall of Fame elections.[11] Later, during his tenure 
as NL president, when several members of the St. Louis Cardinals planned 
to protest Jackie Robinson's breaking of baseball's color barrier, Frick 
threatened any players involved with suspension.[12] While president of 
the NL, Frick served on DePauw University's board of trustees.[13] He was 
also president of the school's alumni association, helping to create the 
DePauw Alumni Fund.[14] In 1951, some baseball owners had become displeased 
with Happy Chandler's service as commissioner and did not want to renew 
his contract. In September, the owners elected Frick to replace Chandler 
in a twelve-hour meeting that the Chicago Tribune called "their all-time 
peak in dilly-dallying".[15] The owners were able to quickly narrow the 
candidates down from five unnamed candidates to two frontrunners, Frick 
and Warren Giles. The owners deadlocked until Giles decided to remove his 
name from consideration.[15] Giles, who had been president and general 
manager of the Cincinnati Reds, succeeded Frick as NL president.[16] Frick 
agreed to a seven-year contract worth $65,000 each year. When he assumed 
the office, Frick said that he was surprised to be elected even though 
he knew he was a candidate for the position. Just before his announcement, 
the major league team owners voted that the commissioner's office should 
be located in a city with two major league teams. Frick decided to relocate 
the office from Cincinnati to New York.[17] In 1957, Frick addressed an 
organized campaign of ballot stuffing for that year's All-Star Game in 
which most of the ballots originated from Cincinnati and had stacked the 
NL team with Reds. In response, Frick overruled the fan vote, removed two 
Reds from the starting lineup and appointed two replacements from other 
teams, and then took the vote away from the fans and kept it that way for 
the remainder of his tenure.[18] Frick presided over the expansion of the 
American and National Leagues from eight to ten teams. Faced with a Congress 
threatening to revoke baseball's antitrust exemption, Frick had initially 
favored the development of a third major league within organized baseball, 
but relented when the established league owners objected and pursued their 
own expansion plans. Following expansion, the regular season was extended 
to 162 games from 154 in order to maintain a balanced schedule. Inaction 
was sometimes cited by Frick's critics as one of his weaknesses. Writers 
often derided Frick for his hands-off approach to baseball matters.[2] 
Writer Jerome Holtzman described Frick's term as commissioner by saying 
that he "sailed a smooth course and seldom descended from his throne. When 
asked why he absented himself from the many battles below, he often said, 
'It's a league matter.'... In retrospect, he understood his role. He was 
a caretaker, not a czar."[19] Frick's critics also accused him of favoring 
the NL in his rulings, such as how the 1960s expansion teams would be stocked. 
Frick's most highly criticized decision as commissioner was to request 
baseball record-keepers to list the single-season home run records of Babe 
Ruth and Roger Maris separately in 1961, based on the length of the season 
played. Frick called a press conference to issue a ruling that a player 
must hit more than 60 home runs in his first 154 games in order to be considered 
the record holder. Writer Allen Barra points out that MLB had no direct 
control over any record books until many years later, and within a few 
years, all listed Maris as the single-season record holder. He writes that 
Frick and Ruth had been friends and that Frick was with Ruth on the player's 
deathbed.[20] In 1960, Frick said that he would probably retire when his 
contract expired in 1965. He said that his remaining goals for his term 
as commissioner were to complete the expansion process and to convince 
Congress to allow each baseball league to set its own television policies.[21] 
Frick married Eleanor Cowing in 1916.[22] His son Fred attended Fordham 
Preparatory School with future baseball executive Buzzie Bavasi. Bavasi 
was planning to attend law school, but Ford Frick introduced him to Larry 
MacPhail of the Brooklyn Dodgers and Bavasi was given a job in minor league 
baseball, where he began to work his way up the organization.[23] Near 
the end of Frick's term as commissioner, he purchased a second home in 
Broadmoor, Colorado, though he maintained his primary residence in New 
York.[5] He maintained involvement with the Baseball Hall of Fame, serving 
as chairman of the board in 1966 and serving on the Veterans Committee 
from 1966 to 1969.[24] Frick himself was elected to the Baseball Hall of 
Fame by the Veterans Committee in 1970. He was said to have chastised Hall 
of Fame voters at a meeting of the Baseball Writers Association of America 
after they elected no major league candidates in the 1971 Hall of Fame 
balloting.[25] Frick died on April 8, 1978 at a hospital in Bronxville, 
New York. He had suffered a series of strokes in his later years. Upon 
his death, commissioner Bowie Kuhn said Frick "brought the game integrity, 
dedication and a happy tranquility far removed from the turbulence of today."[12] 
He is interred in Christ Church Columbarium in Bronxville. The Baseball 
Hall of Fame created the Ford C. Frick Award in 1978, and presents the 
award annually to a baseball broadcaster for major contributions to the 
game. Frick was posthumously inducted into the DePauw University Athletic 
