The Ford C. Frick Award is presented annually by the National Baseball 
Hall of Fame in the United States to a broadcaster for "major contributions 
to baseball." It is named for Ford C. Frick, former Commissioner of Major 
League Baseball. Before his career as an executive, Frick was a baseball 
writer; he gained fame as the ghostwriter for Babe Ruth in the 1920s. The 
award was created in 1978, and named in tribute to Frick following his 
death that year. Though they are sometimes erroneously referred to as "Hall 
of Famers", honorees are not inducted into the Hall of Fame.[1] Honorees 
(if living) give a speech at the Hall of Fame during induction weekend, 
and their names are added to a plaque in the Hall's library. For several 
years in the early 2000s, Frick Award honorees also became life members 
of the Veterans Committee, which considers candidates for Hall of Fame 
induction who are not eligible for the regular voting by the Baseball Writers' 
Association of America – specifically, players no longer on the BBWAA ballot 
and all non-players. However, starting with the 2008 elections, voting 
for players on the main Veterans Committee ballot was restricted to Hall 
of Fame members. After further changes announced for the 2011 elections, 
Frick Award winners are eligible to serve on all three of the Veterans 
Committee voting bodies that consider candidates from different eras of 
baseball. Since 2004, fans have been allowed to vote for three of the award's 
ten annual nominees; this voting is currently conducted on the Hall's Facebook 
page. Through 2013, seven candidates were selected by a committee consisting 
of previous Frick Award winners and broadcast historians and columnists, 
which also determined the final recipient. Beginning with the 2014 award, 
the final election committee no longer selects any of the finalists; that 
role is now handled by a Hall of Fame research committee.[2] Other changes 
in the selection process were also announced for the 2014 award; these 
changes are similar to those instituted in 2010 for Veterans Committee 
balloting. Candidates are now considered every third year, based on the 
era in which they made their most significant contributions:[2] General 
