In rare cases, baseball games are forfeited, usually when a team is no 
longer able to play. In the event of forfeiture, the score is recorded 
as 9-0, as stated in rule 2.00 of the Major League Baseball Rules Book. 
However, the actual game statistics are recorded as they stand at the time 
of the forfeit; the game is recorded as a loss in the standings for the 
forfeiting team and a win for the other team, even if the forfeiting team 
is ahead at that point. The 9-0 score equates to the number of innings 
in a regulation game. Sports with seven-inning games, such as high school 
baseball or softball, generally award a rule-based score of 7-0. Although 
not uncommon in baseball's early days, forfeits are now rare. There have 
been only five forfeits in Major League Baseball since 1954; the last forfeit 
was in 1995 and prior to that the last one had been in 1979. Since 1914, 
there has only been one incident where a team deliberately made a decision 
to forfeit a game, in 1977. Forfeits were more common in the early days 
of Major League Baseball. In 1871, six games were forfeited in two months. 
There was at least one forfeit almost every year from 1882 until 1909. 
1884 saw forfeits in the double digits, many because one team failed to 
appear for a game or refused to continue playing. Game 2 of the 1885 World 
Series was forfeited when St. Louis pulled its team from the field to protest 
the umpiring. There were five forfeits in the National League in 1886. 
The high rate of forfeits slowed after 1910, with one forfeit every few 
years. Game 7 of the 1934 World Series was in jeopardy of being forfeited 
when Detroit Tigers fans began showering the outfield with debris after 
St. Louis Cardinals left fielder Joe Medwick slid hard into Tigers third 
baseman Marv Owen; however, a potential black eye to the Series was averted 
when Commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis ordered both Medwick and Owen 
replaced in the one-sided game. In games that were played before the advent 
of stadium lighting (or had an enforced curfew), forfeits were also sometimes 
declared as a result of a team's stalling tactics. A baseball game is not 
official until 5 innings have been completed, or 4-1/2 innings if the home 
team is winning. Consequently, a team that was behind by a considerable 
number of runs before the end of the fifth inning might deliberately slow 
down the game, in the hopes that darkness or the curfew would come before 
the game was declared official. Note, however, that deliberate attempts 
to slow down play for this reason are subject to a forfeiture being declared. 
The last such incident took place in 1954. On July 18, the visiting Philadelphia 
Phillies were leading the hometown St. Louis Cardinals 8-1 in the fifth 
inning of the second game of a doubleheader. With darkness approaching 
and the game not yet official, Cardinals manager Eddie Stanky brought in 
three new pitchers in the inning. Umpire Babe Pinelli, citing an unnecessary 
delay of the game on the part of the Cardinals, forfeited the game to the 
Phillies. Forfeits have become extremely rare in recent years. The advent 
of night baseball has eliminated the use of stalling tactics to beat the 
sunset. In the expansion era of baseball (post-1960), forfeits generally 
occur only when fans disrupt the game to a point where the stadium staff 
cannot control them, at which point the home team is forced to forfeit. 
