The forkball is a type of pitch in baseball. Related to the split-finger 
fastball, the forkball is held between the first two fingers and thrown 
hard, snapping the wrist. The forkball differs from the split-fingered 
fastball, however, in that the ball is jammed deeper between the first 
two fingers. The result is that the forkball is generally thrown slightly 
slower than the splitter, but has more of a "tumbling" action akin to the 
movement of a 12–6 curveball, as it will drop off the plate before it gets 
to the catcher's mitt. The forkball has been favored by several current 
and former major league pitchers, including Kevin Appier, Hideo Nomo, José 
Valverde, José Arredondo, Ken Hill, Justin Speier, Kazuhiro Sasaki, José 
Contreras, Chien-Ming Wang, Junichi Tazawa, and Edwar Ramírez. Two-time 
Cy Young Award winner Tim Lincecum uses a changeup with forkball movement 
as his strike-out pitch. Hall of Famer Gaylord Perry, winner of the Cy 
Young Award in both leagues, was arguably the greatest practitioner of 
the forkball. In addition, a number of NPB players throw forkballs, including 
Kazumi Saito of the Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks, who has ridden his forkball 
to two Eiji Sawamura Awards. In actuality, the forkball is more popular 
than the splitter in Japan, and the majority of the best pitchers in Japan 
have one in their arsenal.[citation needed] Former Major League pitchers 
Dave Stewart and Mélido Pérez were two of the most highly regarded forkball 
pitchers in the late 1980s. Late in his career, the forkball was also used 
by Sandy Koufax. Jack Morris used a forkball as his primary strikeout pitch 
while winning more games than any other pitcher in the 1980s. Roy Face 
and Lindy McDaniel were relief pitchers who pitched for 16 and 21 years, 
respectively, in the Major Leagues and were forkballers. Face started his 
career in 1953 and McDaniel in 1955. The forkball is thrown with the same 
arm motion and speed of a fastball, but at release point, the wrist is 
snapped downward. Additionally, allowing the ball to spin off the middle 
or index finger may result in additional movement.[1] "Bullet" Joe Bush 
of the Boston Red Sox is credited with the invention of the forkball, shortly 
following World War I.[2] However, it was popularized by former relief 
pitcher Elroy Face of the Pittsburgh Pirates. Face single-handedly made 
the forkball a topic of popularized discussion through his effective use 
of the pitch. The forkball, if thrown correctly, is known to be a cause 
of significant and increasingly common damage to the shoulder and elbow. 
Famous forkballers, particularly Japanese players, have often required 
surgery to remove bone fractures or to repair damaged tendons, sometimes 
several times in their careers. Younger players are discouraged from attempting 
to throw the forkball before reaching the age of 17–18.[citation needed] 
One such pitcher was former Yokohama BayStars and Seattle Mariners closer 
Kazuhiro Sasaki.[citation needed] However, these injuries are avoidable; 
if the pitcher does not snap his wrist in the motion, then the forkball 
theoretically should have no damaging effect to his arm. The only tradeoff 
is a slight decrease in speed; the pitch should still break the same way. 
