Cricket is a multi-faceted sport with multiple formats, depending on the 
standard of play, the desired level of formality, and the time available. 
One of the main differences is between matches limited by time in which 
the teams have two innings apiece, and those limited by number of overs 
in which they have a single innings each. The former, known as first-class 
cricket if played at the senior level, has a scheduled duration of three 
to five days (there have been examples of "timeless" matches too); the 
latter, known as limited overs cricket because each team bowls a limit 
of typically 50 overs, has a planned duration of one day only. A separate 
form of limited overs is Twenty20, originally designed so that the whole 
game could be played in a single evening, in which each team has an innings 
limited to twenty overs. Double innings matches usually have at least six 
hours of playing time each day. Limited overs matches often last at least 
six hours; and Twenty20 matches are generally completed in under four hours. 
In a full day's play scheduled for at least six hours, there are formal 
intervals on each day for lunch and tea with brief informal breaks for 
drinks. There is also a short interval between innings. Local club cricket 
teams, which consist of amateur players, rarely play matches that last 
longer than a single day; these may loosely be divided into declaration 
matches, in which a specified maximum time or number of overs is assigned 
to the game in total and the teams swap roles only when the batting team 
is either completely dismissed or declares; and limited overs matches, 
in which a specified maximum number of overs is assigned for each team's 
innings individually. These will vary in length between 30 and 60 overs 
per side at the weekend and the 20-over format in the evenings. Indoor 
cricket is a variant of the sport played in sports halls during the winter 
months. At still lower levels, the rules are often changed simply to make 
the game playable with limited resources, or to render it more convenient 
and enjoyable for the participants. Informal variants of the sport are 
played in areas as diverse as sandy beaches and ice floes. Four forms of 
cricket have been played at what may be termed the highest international 
or domestic level of the game. Three are contested currently and one is 
historic. There is no official term for this level of cricket collectively, 
although the individual forms do have official designations and are defined 
by the International Cricket Council (ICC). In the past, before any official 
definition was agreed upon, highest standard matches were routinely described 
as "great" or "important" or "top-class"; or even "first-class" before 
this became the official term for one type of cricket (see below).[1] Note 
that "minor cricket" is a term used officially in England and Wales at 
least. Matches played at the highest international and domestic levels 
are those in which players and/or teams of a recognised high standard are 
taking part. In modern domestic cricket, it includes first-class cricket, 
List A cricket and top-class Twenty20 competitions for both men and women. 
Test cricket, One Day Internationals (ODIs) and Twenty20 Internationals 
(T20Is) are variations of those forms within the international sphere. 
Historically (see History of cricket), important matches were those held 
by substantial sources to have historical significance including single 
wicket and those double innings matches without statistical significance: 
i.e., lacking scorecards and other statistical data. The oldest known English 
county teams are Kent, Surrey and Sussex, all of which have histories commencing 
in the early 18th century. These counties had achieved a high standard 
long before their modern county clubs were founded (from 1839 to 1845), 
and so they have always had important match status: i.e., they are classified 
as important teams by the Association of Cricket Statisticians and Historians 
(the ACS) and other substantial sources from the 1700s until 1894;[2][3] 
and as official first-class teams from 1895 following the meeting in May 
1894 by Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) and the County Championship clubs 
at which the concept of "first-class cricket" was officially defined.[4] 
By 1895, several other counties had also been recognised as having important 
match status, as had MCC itself from its foundation in 1787.[3] Top-class 
limited overs cricket began in 1963 when the County Championship clubs 
took part in the first seasonal knockout tournament, which was won by Sussex. 
Hence, like all the other first-class counties, Sussex for example is classified 
as a List A team from 1963;[5] and as a top-class Twenty20 team since 2003.[6] 
First-class cricket is a form of the game in which teams of a recognised 
high standard compete. Test cricket is first-class at international level; 
the term "first-class" is habitually applied to domestic matches only, 
although a player's Test statistics are included in his overall first-class 
statistics. A first-class match must have eleven players per side, two 
innings apiece and a scheduled duration of at least three days. Historically, 
however, there have been instances of first-class matches being arranged 
for less than three days, and there have been others with twelve or thirteen 
players per side; these are exceptional cases and form a tiny percentage 
of the whole. If the game is not completed within the allotted time then 
it is drawn, regardless of who has scored the most runs when time expires. 
Limited overs matches in which the teams have only one innings each are 
not first-class (see List A and Twenty20 sections below) and these cannot 
result in a draw (they can, however, result in a tie or be declared a "no 
result"). Test matches, other games between two Test nations, games between 
two domestic teams deemed first-class in countries holding full membership 
of the ICC, and games between a Test nation's national side (or a team 
drawn from a national touring squad) and a first-class domestic team from 
a Test nation, are deemed to be first class. A match between a leading 
ICC associate member and another team adjudged first-class would be granted 
first-class status, but domestic matches in the associate member country 
are minor. The origin of the term "first-class cricket" is unknown but, 
along with other terms, it was used loosely for important matches before 
it acquired its official status in 1894 (see above). Subsequently, at a 
meeting of the Imperial Cricket Conference (ICC) in May 1947, it was formally 
defined on a global basis. A key omission of both the MCC and ICC rulings 
was any attempt to define first-class cricket retrospectively and it was 
stipulated in the ICC ruling that the definition "will not have retrospective 
effect".[7] Many historians and statisticians have subjectively classified 
chosen pre-1895 matches as first-class but these are unofficial ratings 
and differences of opinion among the experts has led to variations in published 
cricket statistics. The main problem with "first-class cricket" is that 
it can be a misleading concept as it is essentially statistical and may 
typically ignore the more important historical aspect of a match if statistical 
information is missing, as is invariably the case with matches played up 
to 1825. Nevertheless, the recognition of any important match by a substantial 
source qualifies it as such and it follows that the teams, venues and players 
involved in important matches before 1895 are the equivalent of first-class 
teams, venues and players since 1895. The term "important matches" was 
introduced by the Association of Cricket Statisticians and Historians (ACS) 
when it published A Guide to Important Cricket Matches Played in the British 
Isles 1709–1863 in 1981. Substantial sources interested in 18th and 19th 
century cricket include Arthur Haygarth, F. S. Ashley-Cooper, H. T. Waghorn, 
G. B. Buckley, H. S. Altham, Roy Webber, John Arlott, Bill Frindall, the 
ACS and various internet sites (see Historical sources). Writing in 1951, 
Roy Webber drew a line between what is important historically and what 
should form part of the statistical record when he argued that the majority 
of matches prior to 1864 (i.e., the year in which overarm bowling was legalised) 
"cannot be regarded as (statistically) first-class" and their records are 
used "for their historical associations".[8] Limited overs cricket played 
with 40 to 60 overs per team, known statistically as List A cricket, is 
a second form of cricket which differs from first-class as the teams play 
one innings each and are allowed a maximum number of overs per innings. 
Matches are scheduled for completion in a single day's play, though they 
can in theory continue into a second day if impacted by bad weather. Most 
cricketing nations have some form of domestic List A competition. The over 
limits range from forty to sixty. The categorisation of "List A" was only 
endorsed by the ICC in 2006; the Association of Cricket Statisticians and 
Historians created it for the purpose of providing a parallel to first-class 
cricket in their record books. Twenty20 is a separate form of limited overs 
cricket and is not part of List A. It is a third form of cricket originally 
devised in England in 2003. The teams have one innings each in which the 
maximum number of overs is twenty. Twenty20 competitions are held internationally 
and there are domestic championships in all the main cricketing nations. 
There are numerous forms of cricket which, although they are not played 
professionally or at a recognised high standard, are still extremely popular 
and common formats of amateur cricket. It should be noted that the double 
innings, limited overs, and T20 forms are also played by amateur teams 
and players. For example, Grade cricket in Australia and the Minor Counties 
Cricket Championship in England and Wales. Club cricket, by far and away 
the widest form of cricket played worldwide, is largely amateur, but still 
formal, cricket, with the teams organised into leagues. The games are sometimes 
limited-overs, with each innings usually lasting between twenty and fifty 
overs. Other matches are played to time restrictions. Restrictions in overs 
or time may be placed on each side individually, or they may stipulate 
the total length of the match. The latter more traditional case is often 
known as declaration cricket. Club cricket is played extensively in cricketing 
nations, and also by immigrants from cricketing nations. Club cricket most 
often takes place on a natural grass wicket, often maintained by the players 
themselves, although at a lower level it may take place on an artificial 
turf pitch, though the rest of actual field will be natural grass. This 
is the most traditional version of cricket, with rules most closely replicating 
the original rules of cricket from the 16th and 17th century. It is a single 
innings game with a set time limit for the entire game to be completed 
in. To win the game, a side must both score the highest aggregate amount 
of runs and take all ten of the opposition wickets. It is up to the side 
batting first to declare when they feel they have enough runs to be able 
to win the match. In this format of cricket, if the side batting second 
do not lose all ten of their wickets, the match is said to have ended in 
a draw. Declaration cricket is generally played over a single day, although 
two day games lasting an entire weekend are also common. This format is 
often seen as "old-fashioned" and is typically used for friendly matches 
rather than in organised league play. Cricket is also played in several 
different shortened forms, designed to pack as much action as possible 
into an hour or two, enabling them to be played as a single contest in 
an evening, or as a series of multiple contests between different teams 
that cover the entire day. Such forms have evolved since the 1980s, and 
take cricket an additional step beyond one-day cricket. Most forms will 
resemble twenty-twenty cricket in nature, although shorter formats with 
reduced numbers of players, typically 6-aside or 8-aside, are also common 
for tournament play. Indoor cricket is a format of the game designed to 
be played in an indoor sports hall at times of the year when outdoor play 
is not possible. There are two recognised forms of indoor cricket. The 
traditional version played with a hard ball is popular in the UK. This 
format is played with six players per side and features modified rules 
designed specifically for indoor play. A soft ball version is played by 
junior cricketers in the UK and is also popular amongst adults in the Southern 
Hemisphere. A match in which, as the name implies, there is a single batsman 
at any time. It is probably the oldest form of cricket as, at its most 
basic level, it involves one player against another. Historically, it held 
important status as it has known periods of huge popularity, especially 
in the mid-18th century when it was the most popular form of cricket thanks 
to its gambling associations, and in the first half of the 19th century. 
Matches can involve teams with a single player only but the lucrative 18th 
century games were mostly between teams of three to five players known 
as "threes", "fours" or "fives". Only those players designated as team 
members can bat or bowl but it is normal to have the full quota of fielders 
including a wicketkeeper. Double-wicket or "pairs" cricket is a form of 
cricket with two teams of two players each which are pitched against each 
other for a limited number of overs. A player getting out in this form 
of cricket does not retire but continues to bat but gets penalised a stipulated 
number of runs for each time he gets out. It is a simplified, high-speed 
version of the game played on a small pitch with plastic equipment, aimed 
mainly at encouraging youngsters to take part.[9] Backyard cricket, Beach 
cricket, Street cricket are all different names used to describe a wide 
range of related informal games. The rules are often ad hoc, and the laws 
of cricket, such as those involving leg before wicket, penalty runs, and 
others, are ignored or modified to suit both the setting and participants' 
preferences. In India and Pakistan, there is Gali cricket ('gali' in Hindi 
means 'street'. It is pronounced as 'gully' but should not be confused 
with the fielding position). Often, there are no teams, and each player 
plays for himself, and fields when he is not batting. Often, there is one 
wicket, and one bowling position, and no overs. If the batsman runs an 
odd number of runs, he is allowed to walk back to the wicket before the 
next ball is bowled.[citation needed] Informal cricket in the UK is often 
known as garden cricket and is played in gardens and recreation grounds 
around the country. Because of limited space in gardens and the potential 
damage to property, one particular version of garden cricket is unique 
in that there are no concept of runs as attacking shots are expressly forbidden, 
and instead the winning batsman is the one who can survive the longest 
number of deliveries. Typically this will be played with a tennis ball 
or other soft bouncy ball, and modified rules, such as one hand one bounce 
are often employed. The length of the wicket will typically be roughly 
15 metres, and the non-bowling fielders will be encircled close round the 
bat looking for a catching chance. It is a game in which the ball is bowled 
at the legs of the batsman, with the batsman's legs forming the wicket. 
It is often played by children. A tennis ball is often used rather than 
the harder cricket ball. Much like beach cricket, the rules may vary wildly.[citation 
needed] This type of cricket is popular in the South Asian sub-continent, 
USA and Canada. In this game a harder version of tennis ball is used. The 
number of overs in the game varies from 6 to 25 overs. Considering that 
the ball is not as hard as the professional cricket ball, the use of protective 
gear like gloves, pads and helmets is optional. As tennis ball cricket 
games are shorter when compared to the conventional version, it suits the 
US and Canadian lifestyle where one would see a large number of people 
participating. Where cricket pitches are not available, part of a baseball 
diamond is used as a pitch in most parts of USA and Canada.[citation needed] 
This type of cricket is popular in Pakistan, Bangladesh and somewhat gaining 
popularity in other South Asian countries and Europe due to the export 
of the innovative idea from Pakistan. Tape ball cricket has been a cricket 
culture in Pakistan since the 80's. Pakistanis who have settled in the 
west have introduced this theme and have tape ball leagues throughout UK, 
USA, and Canada. In this game a tennis ball is covered with insulating 
tape. This results in a heavier ball. Fast bowlers can generate extra swing 
in both directions while finger spinners can produce turn. The game is 
usually a limited over match with 4–12 overs. In Karachi and Lahore regular 
tournaments are held. Night matches are common, especially during the month 
of Ramadan.[10] Also known as Kirikiti, or Samoan Cricket, it is the national 
game of Samoa and is especially popular in New Zealand. The game is descended 
from the cricket brought to Samoa by British missionaries; teams of unlimited 
size follow rules opaque to outside observers in a game/dance/feast event 
that can last several days.[citation needed] Continuous cricket is a game 
involving one batsman, who upon hitting the ball, must run to a marker, 
which is square of the wicket. The bowler may bowl as soon as the ball 
is returned, regardless of whether or not the batsman is still running. 
The game can be played in teams, or as a group, where players rotate between 
fielding positions, batting and bowling.[11] Founded in Australia, it is 
for those over 60 years of age, slightly modified from the standard.[citation 
needed] It is a form of cricket that also resembles baseball, mainly played 
by women.[citation needed] "La plaquita" ('The little plate') or "la placa" 
('The plate') is an obscure variation, played in the streets of Caribbean 
countries such as the Dominican Republic between two couples, usually making 
use of broomsticks as bats, rubber or tennis balls, and old licence plates 
as wickets (with their ends twisted to make them stand up). The game is 
divided in alternate 3-out innings as in baseball. The first team to reach 
100 or 200 runs wins. A similar version is played on the streets of Brazil 
and is known as bats or taco ('taco' being Portuguese for 'bat').[12] It 
is a peculiar form of cricket played in the Trobriand Islands, in Papua 
New Guinea. Although cricket was introduced by the British as part of colonial 
agenda, it was adopted into local Trobriand culture and many modifications 
and cultural adaptations were made over the years. Some of these include: 
under-arm bowling; outs are celebrated with dances; the "home" team (the 
tribal community which organised a match) always wins; any number of players 
can take part in a match; players dress in traditional war costumes.[citation 
needed] Table Cricket is an indoor version of the game designed primarily 
for physically challenged cricketers. A one-person game played with pencils 
marked by hand to function as 'long dice'. A Japanese variant of these 
for use in other games are called 'battle pencils'.[13] It may also simply 
be played with conventional dice. The aim is to generate scores and attribute 
them to imaginary players and teams by compiling a scorecard. The game 
has been marketed commercially featuring plastic or metal long dice (rollers) 
and playing rules.[14] A card game based on cricket. See main article. 
Also called car cricket. A travel game based on the names of public houses 
passed on the route. Runs are scored according to the number of legs, arms 
or other items featured in the pub name. The exact rules vary according 
to the participants. See main article.' Popular with families, especially 
those with younger children. This type of cricket is everyone against the 
batsman, with the person who gets the batsman out becoming the new batsman. 
It is popular with school children in India, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. It 
has several variants and is mostly played by two players. The runs are 
scored by flipping the book open at random and the last digit of the right-side 
(even-numbered) page is counted as the number of runs scored. 0 (and sometimes 
8) are assigned to special rules, typically a wicket is lost when a person 
scores 0 and scoring 8 would be substituted for a No ball run and an additional 
chance. To give an example, if the batting side opened the book at page 
26, then 6 runs would be scored. For the toss, what is generally done is 
that both the players open a page and the one whose last digit is greater 
wins. Try out the game based on Book Cricket Game Yet another version of 
cricket appeared during the 1950s in the UK in the Eagle comic. A page 
was chosen and each letter or symbol was counted according to a formula. 
This produced a remarkably realistic scorecard with the majority of innings 
around 150 to 300 scored at about 4 runs per over. Hand cricket is widely 
popular among the school children in India, Sri Lanka and Pakistan. It 
is played through gestures (called 'throws'), each of them signifying a 
number, that are made simultaneously by two players, each using one hand, 
by locking the wrist before the throw and immediately releasing certain 
fingers (as determined by the player) before the other player, who does 
it simultaneously before him. This form is popular with school children 
(usually older ones who require scientific calculators for maths and science). 
A player starts by clearing the memory on their calculator. The player 
will then use the random number generator on their calculator to bring 
up a number between 0 and 1. The number of runs scored is the first digit 
after the decimal point (for example, if the random number generator provides 
0.521, 5 runs are scored). Scoring is kept by using the memory addition 
function on the calculator, or by pen and paper. Scoring a 0 is considered 
