Fort Worth is the 16th-largest city in the United States and the fifth-largest 
city in the state of Texas.[8] The city is in North Central Texas and covers 
nearly 350 square miles (910 km2) in the counties of Denton, Parker, Wise, 
and Tarrant, of which it is the county seat. According to the 2015 census, 
estimates, Fort Worth's population is 833,319.[4] The city is the second-largest 
in the Dallas–Fort Worth–Arlington metropolitan area (the "DFW Metroplex"). 
The city was established in 1849 as an Army outpost on a bluff overlooking 
the Trinity River. Today, Fort Worth still embraces its Western heritage 
and traditional architecture and design.[9][10] USS Fort Worth (LCS-3) 
is the first ship of the United States Navy named after the city. Fort 
Worth is home to the Van Cliburn International Piano Competition and several 
world-class museums designed by internationally known contemporary architects. 
The Kimbell Art Museum, considered to have one of the best collections 
in Texas, is housed in what is widely regarded as one of Texas' foremost 
works of modern architecture, designed by Louis Kahn with an addition by 
Renzo Piano. Also of note is the Modern Art Museum of Fort Worth, designed 
by Tadao Ando. The Amon Carter Museum of American Art, designed by Philip 
Johnson, houses one of the most extensive collections of American art in 
the world in a building. The city is stimulated by several university communities: 
Texas Christian, Texas Wesleyan, University of North Texas Health Science 
Center, and Texas A&M University School of Law, and many multinational 
corporations, including Bell Helicopter, Lockheed Martin, American Airlines, 
BNSF Railway, Pier 1 Imports, and Radio Shack. The Treaty of Bird's Fort 
between the Republic of Texas and several Native American tribes was signed 
in 1843 at Bird's Fort in present-day Arlington, Texas.[11][12] Article 
XI of the treaty provided that no one may "pass the line of trading houses" 
(at the border of the Indians' territory) without permission of the President 
of Texas, and may not reside or remain in the Indians' territory. These 
"trading houses" were later established at the junction of the Clear Fork 
and West Fork of the Trinity River in present-day Fort Worth.[13] At this 
river junction, the U.S. War Department established Fort Worth in 1849 
as the northernmost of a system of 10 forts for protecting the American 
Frontier following the end of the Mexican–American War.[14] The City of 
Fort Worth continues to be known as "where the West begins."[15] A line 
of seven army posts were established in 1848–49 after the Mexican War to 
protect the settlers of Texas along the western American Frontier and included 
Fort Worth, Fort Graham, Fort Gates, Fort Croghan, Fort Martin Scott, Fort 
Lincoln, and Fort Duncan.[16] Originally 10 forts had been proposed by 
Major General William Jenkins Worth (1794–1849), who commanded the Department 
of Texas in 1849. In January 1849, Worth proposed a line of 10 forts to 
mark the western Texas frontier from Eagle Pass to the confluence of the 
West Fork and Clear Fork of the Trinity River. One month later, Worth died 
from cholera in South Texas.[16] General William S. Harney assumed command 
of the Department of Texas and ordered Major Ripley A. Arnold (Company 
F, Second United States Dragoons)[16] to find a new fort site near the 
West Fork and Clear Fork. On June 6, 1849, Arnold, advised by Middleton 
Tate Johnson, established a camp on the bank of the Trinity River and named 
the post Camp Worth in honor of the late General Worth. In August 1849, 
Arnold moved the camp to the north-facing bluff, which overlooked the mouth 
of the Clear Fork of the Trinity River. The United States War Department 
officially named the post Fort Worth on November 14, 1849.[17] Native American 
attacks were still a threat in the area, as this was their traditional 
territory and they resented encroachment by European-American settlers, 
but people from the United States set up homesteads near the fort. E. S. 
Terrell (1812–1905) from Tennessee claimed to be the first resident of 
Fort Worth.[18] The fort was flooded the first year and moved to the top 
of the bluff; the current courthouse was built on this site. The fort was 
abandoned September 17, 1853.[16] No trace of it remains. As a stop on 
the legendary Chisholm Trail, Fort Worth was stimulated by the business 
of the cattle drives and became a brawling, bustling town. Millions of 
head of cattle were driven north to market along this trail. Fort Worth 
became the center of the cattle drives, and later, the ranching industry. 
It was given the nickname of "Cowtown". During Civil War, Fort Worth suffered 
from shortages of money, food, and supplies. the population dropped as 
low a 175, but began to recover during Reconstruction. By 1872, Jacob Samuels, 
William Jesse Boaz, and William Henry Davis had opened general stores. 
The next year, Khleber M. Van Zandt established Tidball, Van Zandt, and 
Company, which became Fort Worth National Bank in 1884. In 1875, the Dallas 
Herald published an article by a former Fort Worth lawyer, Robert E. Cowart, 
who wrote that the decimation of Fort Worth's population, caused by the 
economic disaster and hard winter of 1873, had dealt a severe blow to the 
cattle industry. Added to the slowdown due to the railroad's stopping the 
laying of track 30 miles (48 km) outside of Fort Worth, Cowart said that 
Fort Worth was so slow that he saw a panther asleep in the street by the 
courthouse. Although an intended insult, the name Panther City was enthusiastically 
embraced when in 1876 Fort Worth recovered economically.[19] Many businesses 
and organizations continue to use Panther in their name. A panther is set 
at the top of the police department badges.[20] The "Panther City" tradition 
is also preserved in the names and design of some of the city's geographical/architectural 
features, such as Panther Island (in the Trinity River), the Flat Iron 
Building, the Intermodal Transportation Center, and in two or three "Sleeping 
Panther" statues. In 1876, the Texas and Pacific Railway finally was completed 
to Fort Worth, stimulating a boom and transforming the Fort Worth Stockyards 
into a premier center for the cattle wholesale trade.[21] Migrants from 
the devastated war-torn South continued to swell the population, and small, 
community factories and mills yielded to larger businesses. Newly dubbed 
the "Queen City of the Prairies", Fort Worth supplied a regional market 
via the growing transportation network. Fort Worth became the westernmost 
railhead and a transit point for cattle shipment. With the city's main 
focus on cattle and the railroads, local businessman, Louville Niles, formed 
the Fort Worth Stockyards Company in 1893. Shortly thereafter, the two 
biggest cattle-slaughtering firms at the time, Armour and Swift, both established 
operations in the new stockyards. With the boom times came a variety of 
entertainments and related problems. Fort Worth had a knack for separating 
cattlemen from their money. Cowboys took full advantage of their last brush 
with civilization before the long drive on the Chisholm Trail from Fort 
Worth up north to Kansas. They stocked up on provisions from local merchants, 
visited the colorful saloons for a bit of gambling and carousing, then 
galloped northward with their cattle only to whoop it up again on their 
way back. The town soon became home to "Hell's Half-Acre", the biggest 
collection of saloons, dance halls, and bawdy houses south of Dodge City 
(the northern terminus of the Chisholm Trail), giving Fort Worth the nickname 
of "The Paris of the Plains".[22]Template:Page 2016[23] Certain sections 
of town were off-limits for proper citizens. Shootings, knifings, muggings, 
and brawls became a nightly occurrence. Cowboys were joined by a motley 
assortment of buffalo hunters, gunmen, adventurers, and crooks. Hell's 
Half Acre (the Acre) expanded as more people were drawn to the town. Occasionally, 
the Acre was referred to as "the bloody Third Ward" after it was designated 
one of the city's three political wards in 1876. By 1900, the Acre covered 
four of the city's main north-south thoroughfares. Local citizens became 
alarmed about the activities, electing Timothy Isaiah "Longhair Jim" Courtright 
in 1876 as city marshal with a mandate to tame it. Courtright sometimes 
collected and jailed 30 people on a Saturday night, but allowed the gamblers 
to operate, as they attracted money to the city. After learning that train 
and stagecoach robbers, such as the Sam Bass gang, were using the area 
as a hideout, he intensified law enforcement, but certain businessmen advertised 
against too many restriction in the area as having bad effects on the legitimate 
businesses. Gradually, the cowboys began to avoid the area; as businesses 
suffered, the city moderated its opposition. Courtright lost his office 
in 1879. Despite crusading mayors such as H. S. Broiles and newspaper editors 
such as B. B. Paddock, the Acre survived because it generated income for 
the city (all of it illegal) and excitement for visitors. Longtime Fort 
Worth residents claimed the place was never as wild as its reputation, 
but during the 1880s, Fort Worth was a regular stop on the "gambler's circuit" 
by such gambler/gunmen as Bat Masterson, Doc Holliday, and the Earp brothers 
(Wyatt, Morgan, and Virgil). James Earp, the eldest of his brothers, lived 
with his wife in Fort Worth during this period; their house was at the 
edge of Hell's Half Acre, at 9th and Calhoun. He often tended bar at the 
Cattlemen's Exchange saloon in the "uptown" part of the city. Reforming 
citizens objected to the dance halls, where men and women mingled; by contrast, 
the saloons or gambling parlors had primarily male customers. In the late 
1880s, Mayor Broiles and County Attorney R. L. Carlock initiated a reform 
campaign. In a public shootout on February 8, 1887, Jim Courtright was 
killed on Main Street by Short, who claimed he was "King of Fort Worth 
Gamblers." As Courtright had been popular, when Short was jailed for his 
murder, rumors floated of lynching him. Short's good friend Bat Masterson 
came armed and spent the night in his cell to protect him. The first prohibition 
campaign in Texas was mounted in Fort Worth in 1889, helping to shut down 
the Acre's worst excesses. Other business development began in the area, 
as well as residential. Another change was the influx of black residents. 
Excluded by state segregation from the business end of town and the more 
costly residential areas, the city's black citizens, who numbered some 
7,000 of a total population of 50,000 around 1900, settled into the southern 
portion of the city. Though some joined in the profitable vice trade (to 
run, for instance, the Black Elephant Saloon), many others found legitimate 
work and bought homes. The popularity and profitability of the Acre declined 
and more derelicts and the homeless were seen on the streets. By 1900, 
most of the dance halls and gamblers were gone. Cheap variety shows and 
prostitution became the chief forms of entertainment. Some politicians 
sought reforms under the Progressive Era. In 1911, the Reverend J. Frank 
Norris launched an offensive against racetrack gambling in the Baptist 
Standard and used the pulpit of the First Baptist Church of Fort Worth 
to attack vice and prostitution. Norris used the Acre to scourge the leadership 
of Fort Worth. When he began to link certain Fort Worth businessmen with 
property in the Acre and announce their names from his pulpit, the battle 
heated up. On February 4, 1912, Norris's church was burned to the ground; 
that evening, his enemies tossed a bundle of burning oiled rags onto his 
porch, but the fire was extinguished and caused minimal damage. A month 
later, the arsonists succeeded in burning down the parsonage. In a sensational 
trial lasting a month, Norris was charged with perjury and arson in connection 
with the two fires. He was acquitted, but his continued attacks on the 
Acre accomplished little until 1917. A new city administration and the 
federal government, which was eyeing Fort Worth as a potential site for 
a major military training camp, joined forces with the Baptist preacher 
to bring down the final curtain on the Acre. The police department compiled 
statistics showing that 50% of the violent crime in Fort Worth occurred 
in the Acre, which confirmed respectable citizens' opinion of the area. 
After Camp Bowie (a World War I Army training installation) was located 
on the outskirts of Fort Worth in 1917, the military used martial law to 
regulate prostitutes and barkeepers of the Acre. Fines and stiff jail sentences 
curtailed their activities. By the time Norris held a mock funeral parade 
to "bury John Barleycorn" in 1919, the Acre had become a part of Fort Worth 
history. The name continues to be associated with the southern end of Fort 
Worth.[24] On March 28, 2000, at 6:15 pm, an F3 (some estimates claim an 
F4) tornado smashed through downtown, tearing many buildings into shreds 
and scrap metal. One of the hardest-hit structures was the Bank One Tower, 
which was one of the dominant features of the Fort Worth skyline and which 
had Reata, a popular restaurant, on its top floor. It has since been converted 
to upscale condominiums and officially renamed "The Tower". This was the 
first major tornado to strike Fort Worth proper since the early 1940s.[25] 
When oil began to gush in West Texas in the early 20th century, and again 
in the late 1970s, Fort Worth was at the center of the wheeling and dealing. 
In July 2007, advances in horizontal drilling technology made vast natural 
gas reserves in the Barnett Shale available directly under the city, helping 
many residents receive royalty checks for their mineral rights.[26] Today, 
the city of Fort Worth and many residents are dealing with the benefits 
and issues associated with the natural gas reserves under ground.[27][28] 
Fort Worth was the fastest-growing large city in the United States from 
2000 to 2006[29] and was voted one of "America's Most Livable Communities."[30] 
Fort Worth is located in North Texas, and has a generally humid subtropical 
climate.[31] It is part of the Cross Timbers region;[32] this region is 
a boundary between the more heavily forested eastern parts and the rolling 
hills and prairies of the central part. Specifically, the city is part 
of the Grand Prairie ecoregion within the Cross Timbers. The Dallas–Fort 
Worth metroplex is the hub of the North Texas region. According to the 
United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 298.9 square 
miles (774 km2), of which 292.5 square miles (758 km2) is land and 6.3 
square miles (16 km2) (2.12%) is covered by water. A large storage dam 
was built in 1913 on the West Fork of the Trinity River, 7 miles (11 km) 
from the city, with a storage capacity of 30 billion US gallons (110,000,000 m³) 
of water. The lake formed by this dam is known as Lake Worth. The cost 
of the dam was nearly US$1,500,000.[citation needed] The city is not entirely 
contiguous and has several enclaves, practical enclaves, semi-enclaves 
and cities that are otherwise completely or nearly surrounded by it, including: 
Westworth Village, Texas, River Oaks, Texas, Saginaw, Texas, Blue Mound, 
Texas, Benbrook, Texas, Everman, Texas, Forest Hill, Texas, Edgecliff Village, 
Texas, Westover Hills, Texas, White Settlement, Texas, Sansom Park, Texas, 
Lake Worth, Texas, and Haslet, Texas. Downtown is mainly known for its 
Art Deco-style buildings. The Tarrant County Courthouse was created in 
the American Beaux Arts design, which was modeled after the Texas State 
Capitol building. Most of the structures around Sundance Square have preserved 
their early 20th-century façades. Downtown has a unique rustic architecture. 
The city of Fort Worth contains over 1000 natural gas wells (December 2009 
count) tapping the Barnett Shale. Each well site is a bare patch of gravel 
2–5 acres (8,100–20,200 m2) in size. As city ordinances permit them in 
all zoning categories, including residential, well sites can be found in 
a variety of locations. Some wells are surrounded by masonry fences, but 
most are secured by chain link. Fort Worth has a humid subtropical climate 
according to the Köppen climate classification system[33] and is within 
USDA hardiness zone 8a. The hottest month of the year is July, when the 
average high temperature is 95 °F (35.0 °C), and overnight low temperatures 
average 72 °F (22.2 °C), giving an average temperature of 84 °F (28.9 °C).[34] 
The coldest month of the year is January, when the average high temperature 
is 55 °F (12.8 °C) and low temperatures average 31 °F (−0.6 °C).[34] The 
average temperature in January is 43 °F (6 °C).[34] The highest temperature 
ever recorded in Fort Worth is 113 °F (45.0 °C), on June 26, 1980, during 
the Great 1980 Heat Wave,[35] and June 27, 1980.[36] The coldest temperature 
ever recorded in Fort Worth was −8 °F (−22.2 °C) on February 12, 1899.[37] 
Because of its position in North Texas, Fort Worth is very susceptible 
to supercell thunderstorms, which produce large hail and can produce tornados. 
The average annual precipitation for Fort Worth is 34.01 inches (863.9 mm).[34] 
The wettest month of the year is May, when an average of 4.58 inches (116.3 mm) 
of precipitation falls.[34] The driest month of the year is January, when 
only 1.70 inches (43.2 mm) of precipitation falls.[34] The driest calendar 
year since records began has been 1921 with 17.91 inches (454.9 mm) and 
the wettest 2015 with 62.61 inches (1,590.3 mm). The wettest calendar month 
has been April 1922 with 17.64 inches (448.1 mm), including 8.56 inches 
(217.4 mm) on April 25. The average annual snowfall in Fort Worth is 2.6 
inches (0.07 m).[38] The most snowfall in one month has been 13.5 inches 
(0.34 m) in February 1978, and the most in a season 17.6 inches (0.45 m) 
in 1977/1978. The National Weather Service office which serves the Dallas-Fort 
Worth Metroplex is based in the northeastern part of Fort Worth.[39] According 
to the 2010 census, the racial composition of Fort Worth was: As of the 
census of 2000, 534,694 people, 195,078 households, and 127,581 families 
resided in the city. The July 2004 census estimates have placed Fort Worth 
in the top 20 most populous cities (# 19) in the U.S. with the population 
at 604,538. Fort Worth is also in the top five cities with the largest 
numerical increase from July 1, 2003 to July 1, 2004, with 17,872 more 
people or a 3.1% increase.[47] The population density was 1,827.8 people 
per square mile (705.7/km²). There were 211,035 housing units at an average 
density of 721.4 per square mile (278.5/km²). The racial makeup of the 
city was 59.69% White, 20.26% Black or African American, 0.59% Native American, 
2.64% Asian, 0.06% Pacific Islander, 14.05% from other races, and 2.72% 
from two or more races. About 29.81% of the population were Hispanics or 
Latinos of any race. In 1970, the Census Bureau reported Fort Worth's population 
as 72% non-Hispanic White, 19.9% Black, and 7.9% Hispanic.[45] Of the 195,078 
households, 34.7% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 45.8% 
were married couples living together, 14.7% had a female householder with 
no husband present, and 34.6% were not families; 9,599 were unmarried partner 
households: 8,202 heterosexual, 676 same-sex male, and 721 same-sex female 
households. About 28.6% of all households were made up of individuals and 
7.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average 
household size was 2.67 and the average family size was 3.33. In the city, 
the population was distributed as 28.3% under the age of 18, 11.3% from 
18 to 24, 32.7% from 25 to 44, 18.2% from 45 to 64, and 9.6% who were 65 
years of age or older. The median age was 31 years. For every 100 females, 
there were 97.3 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 
94.5 males. The median income for a household in the city was $37,074, 
and for a family was $42,939. Males had a median income of $31,663 versus 
$25,917 for females. The per capita income for the city was $18,800. About 
12.7% of families and 15.9% of the population were below the poverty line, 
including 21.4% of those under age 18 and 11.7% of those age 65 or over. 
Major companies based in Fort Worth include American Airlines Group (and 
subsidiaries American Airlines and Envoy Air), D. R. Horton, the John Peter 
Smith Hospital, Pier 1 Imports, RadioShack, and the BNSF Railway. In 2013, 
Fort Worth-Arlington ranked 15th on Forbes' list of the Best Places for 
Business and Careers.[48] According to the city's 2011 Comprehensive Annual 
Financial Report,[49] the top employers in the Fort Worth area are: Building 
on its frontier western heritage and a history of strong local arts patronage, 
Fort Worth, in recent years, has begun promoting itself as the "City of 
Cowboys and Culture".[50] Fort Worth has the world's first and largest 
indoor rodeo. Bass Performance Hall, Casa Mañana, Stage West Theatre, Kids 
Who Care Inc., Jubilee Theater, Circle Theatre, Amphibian Stage Productions 
Kimbell Art Museum, Amon Carter Museum of American Art, Modern Art Museum 
of Fort Worth, Sid Richardson Museum, Fort Worth Museum of Science and 
History, National Cowgirl Museum and Hall of Fame, Military Museum of Fort 
Worth, Texas Civil War Museum, Texas Cowboy Hall of Fame, Fort Worth Stockyards 
Museum, Al and Ann Stohlman Museum, Lenora Rolla Heritage Center Museum, 
National Multicultural Western Heritage Museum Fort Worth Symphony Orchestra, 
Billy Bob's, Texas Ballet Theater, Van Cliburn International Piano Competition, 
Fort Worth Opera, Live Eclectic Music (Ridglea Theater[51]) The Academy 
of Western Artists, based in Gene Autry, Oklahoma presents its annual awards 
in Fort Worth in fields related to the American cowboy, including music, 
literature, and even chuckwagon cooking.[52] The Fort Worth Zoo is home 
to over 5000 animals and has been named as a top zoo in the nation by Family 
Life magazine, the Los Angeles Times, and USA Today and one of the top 
zoos in the South by Southern Living Reader's Choice Awards; it has been 
ranked in the top 10 zoos in the United States. The Fort Worth Botanic 
Garden and the Botanical Research Institute of Texas are also in the city. 
For those interested in hiking, birding, or canoeing, the Fort Worth Nature 
Center and Refuge in northwest Fort Worth is a 3621-acre preserved natural 
area designated by the Department of the Interior as a National Natural 
Landmark Site in 1980. Established in 1964 as the Greer Island Nature Center 
and Refuge, it celebrated its 50th anniversary in 2014. The Nature Center 
has small, genetically pure bison herd, a resident prairie dog town, and 
the prairie upon which they live. It is one of the largest urban parks 
of its type in the U.S. Parks Fort Worth has a total of 263 parks with 
179 of those bring neighborhood parks. The total acres of park land is 
11,700.72 acres with the average being about 12.13 acres per park. [53] 
There are two dog parks located in the city including ZBonz Dog Park and 
Fort Woof. These are both off-leash dog parks. Fort Woof was recognized 
by Dog Fancy Magazine as the No. 1 Dog Park in the Nation in 2006, and 
as City Voter’s the Best Dog Park in the Metroplex in 2009. The park includes 
an agility course, water fountains, shaded shelters and waste stations. 
[54] While much of Fort Worth's sports attention is focused on the Metroplex's 
professional sports teams, the city has its own athletic identity. The 
TCU Horned Frogs compete in NCAA Division I athletics, including the football 
team, consistently ranked in the top 25, and the baseball team, which has 
competed in the last six NCAA tournaments and 3 straight CWS, coming within 
a win of making the College World Series finals in 2009 and 2016. The women's 
basketball team has competed in the last seven NCAA tournaments. Texas 
Wesleyan University competes in the NAIA, and won the 2006 NAIA Div. I 
Men's Basketball championship and three-time National Collegiate Table 
Tennis Association (NCTTA) team championships (2004–2006). Fort Worth is 
also home to the NCAA football Bell Helicopter Armed Forces Bowl, as well 
as four minor-league professional sports teams. One of these minor league 
teams, the Fort Worth Cats baseball team, was reborn in 2001. The original 
Cats were a very popular minor league team in Fort Worth from the 19th 
century (when they were called the Panthers) until 1960, when the team 
was merged into the Dallas Rangers. The presence of Texas Christian University 
less than 5 miles (8 km) from downtown and national competitiveness in 
football, baseball, and men's and women's basketball have sustained TCU 
as an important part of Fort Worth's sports scene. The Horned Frog football 
team produced two national championships in the 1930s and remained a strong 
competitor in the Southwest Conference into the 1960s before beginning 
a long period of underperformance. The revival of the TCU football program 
began under Coach Dennis Franchione with the success of running back LaDainian 
Tomlinson. Under Head Coach Gary Patterson, the Horned Frogs have developed 
into a perennial top-10 contender, and a Rose Bowl winner in 2011. Notable 
players include Sammy Baugh, Davey O'Brien, Bob Lilly, LaDainian Tomlinson, 
Jerry Hughes, and Andy Dalton.[55] The Horned Frogs, along with their rivals 
and fellow non-AQ leaders the Boise State Broncos and University of Utah 
Utes, were deemed the quintessential "BCS Busters", having appeared in 
both the Fiesta and Rose Bowls. Their "BCS Buster" role ended in 2012 when 
they joined the Big 12 athletic conference in all sports. The Horned Frog 
football teams have one of the best winning percentages of any school in 
the Football Bowl Subdivision in recent years. Fort Worth hosts an important 
professional men's golf tournament every May at the Colonial Country Club. 
The Colonial Invitational Golf Tournament, now officially known as the 
Dean & DeLuca Invitational, is one of the more prestigious and historical 
events of the tour calendar. The Colonial Country Club was the home course 
of golfing legend Ben Hogan, who was from Fort Worth. The Fort Worth Cats 
were a professional baseball team founded in 2001 as part of the All-American 
Association. Their home venue is LaGrave Field. As of 2013[update], the 
team was affiliated with United League Baseball. Fort Worth Vaqueros FC 
are a minor league soccer team[56] which began play in the summer of 2014. 
They are part of the National Premier Soccer League and play their home 
games at Martin Field. Fort Worth is home to Texas Motor Speedway, also 
known as "The Great American Speedway". Texas Motor Speedway is a 1.5-mile 
quad-oval track located in the far northern part of the city in Denton 
County. The speedway opened in 1997, and currently hosts an IndyCar event 
and six NASCAR events among three major race weekends a year.[57][58] Amateur 
sports-car racing in the greater Fort Worth area occurs mostly at two purpose-built 
tracks: Motorsport Ranch and Eagles Canyon Raceway. Sanctioning bodies 
include the Porsche Club of America, the National Auto Sports Association, 
and the Sports Car Club of America. The annual Cowtown Marathon has been 
held every last weekend in February since 1978. The two-day activities 
include two 5Ks, a 10K, the half marathon, marathon, and ultra marathon. 
With just under 27,000 participants in 2013, the Cowtown is the largest 
multiple-distance event in Texas. Fort Worth has a council-manager government, 
with elections held every two years for a mayor, elected at large, and 
eight council members, elected by district. The mayor is a voting member 
of the council and represents the city on ceremonial occasions. The council 
has the power to adopt municipal ordinances and resolutions, make proclamations, 
set the city tax rate, approve the city budget, and appoint the city secretary, 
city attorney, city auditor, municipal court judges, and members of city 
boards and commissions. The day-to-day operations of city government are 
overseen by the city manager, who is also appointed by the council.[59] 
The Texas Department of Transportation operates the Fort Worth District 
Office in Fort Worth.[60] The North Texas Intermediate Sanction Facility, 
a privately operated prison facility housing short-term parole violators, 
was in Fort Worth. It was operated on behalf of the Texas Department of 
Criminal Justice. In 2011, the state of Texas decided not to renew its 
contract with the facility.[61] State Senator Konni Burton (R) Represents 
Fort Worth (district 10) Fort Worth is split between Texas's 6th congressional 
district, represented by Republican Joe Barton; Texas's 12th congressional 
district, represented by Republican Kay Granger; Texas's 24th congressional 
district, represented by Republican Kenny Marchant; Texas's 26th congressional 
district, represented by Republican Michael Burgess; and Texas's 33rd congressional 
district, represented by Democrat Marc Veasey. Fort Worth is home to one 
of the two locations of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing. In 1987, 
construction on this second facility began. In addition to meeting increased 
production requirements, a western location was seen to serve as a contingency 
operation in case of emergencies in the Washington, DC, metropolitan area; 
as well, costs for transporting currency to Federal Reserve banks in San 
Francisco, Dallas, and Kansas City would be reduced. Currency production 
began in December 1990 at the Fort Worth facility, the official dedication 
took place April 26, 1991. The Eldon B. Mahon United States Courthouse 
building contains three oil-on-canvas panels on the fourth floor by artist 
Frank Mechau (commissioned under the Public Works Administration's art 
program).[62] Mechau's paintings, The Taking of Sam Bass, Two Texas Rangers, 
and Flags Over Texas were installed in 1940, becoming the only New Deal 
art commission sponsored in Fort Worth. The courthouse, built in 1933, 
serves the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas 
and was listed in the National Register of Historic Places in 2001. Federal 
Medical Center, Carswell, a federal prison and health facility for women, 
is located in the Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Fort Worth.[63] 
Carswell houses the federal death row for female inmates.[64] The Federal 
Aviation Administration and Federal Bureau of Investigation have offices 
in Fort Worth. Fort Worth Library is the public library system. Most of 
Fort Worth is served by the Fort Worth Independent School District. Other 
school districts that serve portions of Fort Worth include: The portion 
of Fort Worth within the Arlington Independent School District contains 
a wastewater plant. No residential areas are in the portion. Pinnacle Academy 
of the Arts (K-12) is a state charter school, as is Crosstimbers Academy. 
Private schools in Fort Worth include both secular and parochial. Other 
institutions: Fort Worth is shared by Dallas's media market. The city's 
magazine is Fort Worth, Texas Magazine, which publishes information about 
Fort Worth events, social activity, fashion, dining, and culture.[66] Many 
radio stations are in and around Fort Worth, with many different formats. 
On the AM dial, like in all other markets, political talk radio is prevalent, 
with WBAP 820, KLIF 570, KEXB 620, KSKY 660, KRLD 1080 the conservative 
talk stations serving Fort Worth and KMNY 1360 the sole progressive talk 
station serving the city. KFXR 1190 is a news/talk/classic country station. 
Sports talk can be found on KTCK 1310 ("The Ticket"). WBAP, a 50,000-watt 
clear-channel station which can be heard over much of the country at night, 
was a long-successful country music station before converting to its current 
talk format. Several religious stations are also on AM in the Dallas/Fort 
Worth area; KHVN 970 and KGGR 1040 are the local urban gospel stations 
and KKGM 1630 has a Southern gospel format. Fort Worth's Spanish-speaking 
population is served by many stations on AM: A few mixed Asian language 
stations serve Fort Worth: Other formats found on the Fort Worth AM dial 
are urban KKDA 730, business talk KJSA 1120, country station KCLE 1460. 
KLNO is a commercial radio station licensed to Fort Worth. Long-time Fort 
Worth resident Marcos A. Rodriguez operated Dallas Fort Worth radio stations 
KLTY and KESS on 94.1 FM. Noncommercial stations serve the city fairly 
well. Three college stations can be heard - KTCU 88.7, KCBI 90.9, and KNTU 
88.1, with a variety of programming. Also, the local NPR station is KERA 
90.1, along with community radio station KNON 89.3. Downtown Fort Worth 
also hosts the Texas Country radio station KFWR 95.9 The Ranch. A wide 
variety of commercial formats, mostly music, are on the FM dial in Fort 
Worth. When local radio station KOAI 107.5 FM, now KMVK, dropped its smooth 
jazz format, fans set up smoothjazz1075.com, an internet radio station, 
to broadcast smooth jazz for disgruntled fans. A couple of internet radio 
shows are in the Fort Worth area, DFDubbIsHot and The Broadband Brothers. 
Fort Worth shares a television market with nearby Dallas. Owned-and-operated 
stations of their affiliated networks are highlighted in bold. Fort Worth 
has one newspaper published daily, the Fort Worth Star-Telegram. The Star-Telegram 
is the 45-most widely circulated newspaper in the United States, with a 
daily circulation of 210,990 and a Sunday circulation of 304,200. The Fort 
Worth Weekly is an alternative weekly newspaper that serves the Dallas/Fort 
Worth Metroplex. The newspaper has an approximate circulation of 50,000.[citation 
needed] The Fort Worth Weekly publishes every Wednesday and features, among 
many things, news reporting, cultural event guides, movie reviews, and 
editorials. Fort Worth Business Press is a weekly publication that chronicles 
news in the Fort Worth business community. Fort Worth, Texas Magazine is 
a monthly publication that highlights the social and cultural life of the 
city. The Fort Worth Press was a daily newspaper, published weekday afternoons 
and on Sundays from 1900 until 1975. It was owned by the E. W. Scripps 
Company and published under the then-prominent Scripps-Howard Lighthouse 
logo. The paper reportedly last made money in the early 1950s. Scripps 
Howard stayed with the paper until mid-1975. Circulation had dwindled to 
fewer than 30,000 daily, just more than 10% of that of the Fort Worth Star 
Telegram. The name Fort Worth Press was resurrected briefly in a new Fort 
Worth Press paper operated by then-former publisher Bill McAda and briefer 
still by William Dean Singleton, then-owner of the weekly Azle (Texas) 
News, now owner of the Media Central news group. The Fort Worth Press operated 
from offices and presses at 500 Jones Street in downtown Fort Worth.[67] 
Like most cities that grew quickly after World War II, Fort Worth's main 
mode of transportation is the automobile, but bus transportation via The 
T is available, as well as an interurban train service to Dallas via the 
Trinity Railway Express. The first streetcar company in Fort Worth was 
the Fort Worth Street Railway Company. Its first line began operating in 
December 1876, and traveled from the courthouse down Main Street to the 
T&P Depot.[68] By 1890, more than 20 private companies were operating streetcar 
lines in Fort Worth. The Fort Worth Street Railway Company bought out many 
of its competitors, and was eventually itself bought out by the Bishop 
& Sherwin Syndicate in 1901.[69] The new ownership changed the company's 
name to the Northern Texas Traction Company, which operated 84 miles of 
streetcar railways in 1925, and their lines connected downtown Fort Worth 
to TCU, the Near Southside, Arlington Heights, Lake Como, and the Stockyards. 
At its peak, the electric interurban industry in Texas consisted of almost 
500 miles of track, making Texas the second in interurban mileage in all 
states west of the Mississippi River. Electric interurban railways were 
prominent in the early 1900s, peaking in the 1910s and fading until all 
electric interurban railways were abandoned by 1948. Close to three-fourths 
of the mileage was in the Dallas-Fort Worth area, running between Fort 
Worth and Dallas and to other area cities including Cleburne, Denison, 
Corsicana, and Waco. The line depicted in the associated image was the 
second to be constructed in Texas and ran 35 miles between Fort Worth and 
Dallas. Northern Texas Traction Company built the railway, which was operational 
from 1902 to 1934.[70] Fort Worth is served by four interstates and two 
US highways. It also contains a number of arterial streets in a grid formation. 
Interstate highways 30, 20, 35W, and 820 all pass through the city limits. 
Interstate 820 is a spur of Interstate 20 and serves as a beltway for the 
city. Interstate 30 and Interstate 20 connect Fort Worth to Arlington, 
Grand Prairie, and Dallas. Interstate 35W connects Fort Worth with Hillsboro 
to the south and the cities of Denton and Gainesville to the north. U.S. 
Route 287 runs southeast through the city connecting Wichita Falls to the 
north and Mansfield to the south. U.S. Route 377 runs south through the 
northern suburbs of Haltom City and Keller through the central business 
district. Notable state highways: (List of Dallas-Fort Worth area freeways) 
The Fort Worth Transportation Authority, better known as The T, serves 
Fort Worth with dozens of different bus routes throughout the city, including 
a downtown bus circulator known as Molly the Trolley. The T operates buses 
in the suburbs of Richland Hills (route 41) and Arlington (MAX).[71] In 
2010, Fort Worth won a $25 million Federal Urban Circulator grant to build 
a streetcar system.[72] In December 2010, though, the city council forfeited 
the grant by voting to end the streetcar study.[73] Prior to the construction 
of DFW, the city was served by Greater Southwest International Airport, 
which was located just to the south of the new airport. Originally named 
Amon Carter Field after one of the city's influential mayors, Greater Southwest 
opened in 1953 and operated as the primary airport for Fort Worth until 
1974. It was then abandoned until the terminal was torn down in 1980. The 
site of the former airport is now a mixed-use development straddled by 
Texas State Highway 183 and 360. One small section of runway remains north 
of Highway 183, and serves as the only reminder that a major commercial 
airport once occupied the site. Fort Worth is home to these four airports 
within city limits: A 2011 study by Walk Score ranked Fort Worth 47th-most 
walkable of 50 largest U.S. cities.[76] Biking The Fort Worth Bike Sharing 
is a nonprofit organization that controls Fort Worth B-Cycle, a bike-sharing 
program introduced to the area on April 22, 2013. There are 45 stations 
across the city with 350 bikes available for rent all day, every day of 
the year. These areas include Downtown, the Cultural District, the Trinity 
Trails, the Stockyards, Near Southside and on TCU’s campus. Their mission 
is to “enhance our community by providing an affordable, efficient, environmentally-friendly 
bike share program that complements our existing public transportation 
system and provides both residents and visitors a healthy, convenient way 
to move around our city”.[77] Aaron Bilbrey, Civil/Mechanical Construction 
Pioneer Fort Worth is a part of the Sister Cities International program 
and maintains cultural and economic exchange programs with its eight sister 
