Fort Riley is a United States Army installation located in North Central 
Kansas, on the Kansas River, also known as the Kaw, between Junction City 
and Manhattan. The Fort Riley Military Reservation covers 100,656 acres 
(407 km²) in Geary and Riley counties and includes two census-designated 
places: Camp Funston, Camp Forsyth, Camp Whiteside and Custer Hill. The 
fort has a daytime population of nearly 25,000. The zip code is 66442. 
Fort Riley is named in honor of Major General Bennett C. Riley who led 
the first military escort along the Santa Fe Trail. The fort was established 
in 1853 as a military post to protect the movement of people and trade 
over the Oregon, California, and Santa Fe trails. In the years after the 
Civil War, Fort Riley served as a major United States Cavalry post and 
school for cavalry tactics and practice. The post was a base for skirmishes 
with Native Americans after the Civil War ended in 1865, during which time 
George Custer was stationed at the fort. In 1887, Fort Riley became the 
site of the United States Cavalry School. The famous all-black 9th and 
10th Cavalry Regiments, the soldiers of which were called "Buffalo Soldiers", 
were stationed at Fort Riley at various times in the 19th and early 20th 
centuries. During World War I, the fort was home to 50,000 soldiers, and 
it is sometimes identified as ground zero for the 1918 Spanish flu pandemic, 
which its soldiers were said to have spread all over the world. Since the 
end of World War II, various infantry divisions have been assigned there. 
Most notably, from 1955-1996 the post was home to the famed Big Red One. 
Between 1999-2006, the post was headquarters to the 24th Infantry Division 
(Mechanized) and known as "America's Warfighting Center". In August 2006, 
the Big Red One relocated its headquarters to Fort Riley from Leighton 
Barracks, Germany. Camp Whitside is named in honor of Brigadier General 
Samuel M. Whitside, who served as commander of Company B, 6th Cavalry Regiment, 
at Fort Riley, between the years of 1871 and 1874. 1st Infantry Division[1] 
Garrison[2] Partners The early history of Fort Riley is closely tied to 
the movement of people and trade along the Oregon and Santa Fe trails. 
These routes, a result of then popular United States doctrine of "Manifest 
Destiny" in the middle of the 19th century, prompted increased American 
military presence for the protection of American interests in this largely 
unsettled territory. During the 1850s, a number of military posts were 
established at strategic points to provide protection along these arteries 
of emigration and commerce. In the fall of 1852, a surveying party under 
the command of Captain Robert Chilton, 1st U.S. Dragoons, selected the 
junction of the Republican and Smoky Hill Rivers as a site for one of these 
forts. This location, approved by the War Department in January 1853, offered 
an advantageous location from which to organize, train and equip troops 
in protecting the overland trails. Surveyors believed the location near 
the center of the United States and named the site, Camp Center. During 
the late spring, three companies of the 6th Infantry occupied the camp 
and began construction of temporary quarters. On June 27, 1853, Camp Center 
became Fort Riley—named in honor of Maj. Gen. Bennett C. Riley who had 
led the first military escort along the Santa Fe Trail in 1829. The "fort" 
took shape around a broad plain that overlooked the Kansas River valley. 
The fort's design followed the standard frontier post configuration: buildings 
were constructed of the most readily available material - in this case, 
native limestone. In the spring, troops were dispatched to escort mail 
trains and protect travel routes across the plains. At the fort, additional 
buildings were constructed under the supervision of Capt. Edmund Ogden. 
Anticipating greater utilization of the post, Congress authorized appropriations 
in the spring of 1855 to provide additional quarters and stables for the 
Dragoons. Ogden again marshaled resources and arrived from Leavenworth 
in July with 50 6-mule teams[3] loaded with materials, craftsmen and laborers. 
Work had progressed for several weeks when cholera broke out among the 
workers. The epidemic lasted only a few days but claimed 70 lives, including 
Ogden's. Work gradually resumed and buildings were readied for the arrival 
in October of the 2nd Dragoons. As the fort began to take shape, an issue 
soon to dominate the national scene was debated during the brief territorial 
legislative session which met at Pawnee in the present area of Camp Whitside, 
named for Col. Warren Whitside. The first territorial legislature met there 
in July 1855. Slavery was a fact of life and an issue within the garrison 
just as it was in the rest of the country. The seeds of sectional discord 
were emerging that would lead to "Bleeding Kansas" and, eventually, Civil 
War. Increased tension and bloodshed between pro and anti-slavery settlers 
resulted in the use of the Army to "police" the troubled territory. They 
also continued to guard and patrol the Santa Fe Trail in 1859 and 1860 
due to increased Indian threats. The outbreak of hostilities between the 
North and South in 1861 disrupted garrison life. Regular units returned 
east to participate in the Civil War while militia units from Kansas and 
other states used Riley as a base from which to launch campaigns to show 
the flag and offer a degree of protection to trading caravans using the 
Santa Fe Trail. In the early stages of the war, the fort was used to confine 
Confederate prisoners. The conclusion of the Civil War in 1865 witnessed 
Fort Riley again assuming an importance in providing protection to railroad 
lines being built across Kansas. Evidence of this occurred in the summer 
and fall of 1866 when the 7th Cavalry Regiment was mustered-in at Riley 
and the Union Pacific Railroad reached the fort. Brevet Major General George 
A. Custer arrived in December to take charge of the new regiment. Soldiers 
from the Kansas Volunteer regiments, "Jenison's Jayhawks" that were wounded 
in the battle of west port were brought to Fort Riley for recovery. The 
following spring, Custer and the 7th left Fort Riley to participate in 
a campaign on the high plains of western Kansas and eastern Colorado. The 
campaign proved inconclusive but resulted in Custer's court martial and 
suspension from the Army for one year—in part—for returning to Fort Riley 
to see his wife without permission. As the line of settlement extended 
westward each spring, the fort lost some of its importance. Larger concentrations 
of troops were stationed at Larned and Hays, where they spent the summer 
months on patrol and wintered in garrison. Between 1869 and 1871, a school 
of light artillery was conducted at Fort Riley by the 4th Artillery Battery. 
Instruction was of a purely practical nature, and regular classes were 
not conducted. Critiques were delivered during or following the exercise. 
This short-lived school closed in March 1871 as the War Department imposed 
economy measures which included cutting a private's monthly pay from $12 
to $9. During the next decade, various regiments of the infantry and cavalry 
were garrisoned at Riley. The spring and summer months usually witnessed 
a skeletal complement at the fort while the remainder of the troops were 
sent to Forts Hays, Wallace, and Dodge in western Kansas. With the approach 
of winter, these troops returned to Riley. Regiments serving here during 
this time included the 5th, 6th, and 9th Cavalry and the 16th Infantry 
Regiment. The lessening of hostilities with the Indian tribes of the Great 
Plains resulted in the closing of many frontier forts. Riley escaped this 
fate when Lt. Gen. Philip Sheridan recommended in his 1884 annual report 
to Congress to make the fort "Cavalry Headquarters of the Army." Fort Riley 
was also used by state militia units for encampments and training exercises. 
The first such maneuver occurred in the fall of 1902 with subsequent ones 
held in 1903, 1904, 1906–1908 and 1911. These exercises gave added importance 
to the fort as a training facility and provided reserve units a valuable 
opportunity for sharpening their tactical skills. The 9th and 10th Cavalry 
Regiments — the famed "Buffalo Soldiers" so called by the indigenous peoples 
for the similarity to the short curly haired buffalo that roamed the plains 
— have been stationed at Fort Riley several times during their history. 
Shortly after their formation in 1866, the 9th Cavalry passed through here 
en route to permanent stations in the southwest. They returned during the 
early 1880s and the early part of this century before being permanently 
assigned as troop cadre for the Cavalry School during the 1920 and 30s. 
The 10th Cavalry was stationed here in 1868 and 1913. On the eve of World 
War II, the 9th and 10th Cavalry became part of the 2nd Cavalry Division, 
which was briefly stationed at Fort Riley. The following two decades have 
been described as the golden age of the cavalry. Certainly it was in terms 
of refining the relationship between horse and rider. Army horsemen and 
the training they received at the United States Army Cavalry School made 
them among the finest mounted soldiers in the world and the School's reputation 
ranked with the French and Italian Cavalry Schools. Horse shows, hunts 
and polo matches - long popular events on Army post - were a natural outgrowth 
of cavalry training. The Cavalry School Hunt was officially organized in 
1921 and provided a colorful spectacle on Sunday mornings. These activities 
gave rise to the perception of a special quality of life at Fort Riley 
that came to be known as the "Life of Riley." The technological advances 
demonstrated on the battlefields of Europe and World War I - most notable 
the tank and machine gun - raised questions in the inter-war years over 
the future of cavalry. By the late 1920s, the War Department directed development 
of a tank force by the Army. This was followed by activation of the 7th 
Cavalry Brigade (Mechanized) at Fort Knox, Ky., in the fall of 1936 to 
make-up the 2nd Regiment of this brigade. In October 1938, the 7th Cavalry 
Brigade (Mech.) marched from Fort Knox to Fort Riley and took part in large-scale 
combine maneuvers of horse and mechanized units. These exercises helped 
prove the effectiveness of mechanical doctrine. America's entry into World 
War I resulted in many changes at Fort Riley. Facilities were greatly expanded, 
and a cantonment named Camp Funston was built five miles (8 km) east of 
the permanent post during the summer and fall of 1917. This training site 
was one of 16 across the country and could accommodate from 30,000 to 50,000 
men. The first division to train at Camp Funston, the 89th, sailed for 
France in the spring of 1918. The 10th Division also received training 
at Funston but the armistice came before the unit was sent overseas. The 
camp was commanded by Maj. Gen. Leonard Wood. A Military Officers Training 
Camp was established in the Camp Whitside area to train doctors and other 
medical personnel. Armistice Day, November 11, 1918, beckoned to a world 
made safe for democracy but also one that heralded a new day for the horse 
cavalry. The War Department directed service schools be created for all 
arms of service. As a result, in 1919, the Mounted Service School, as it 
was known since 1907 and which had ceased to function during the war, was 
re-designated as the United States Army Cavalry School. The change was 
sudden and abrupt. The new school met the need for courses both broader 
in scope and more general in character. The Cavalry unit at camp Funston 
was the 2nd cavalry Regiment who provide the training and cavalry tactics 
to new cavalry officers. The current post headquarters was in the 1920s 
post hospital . Gathering war clouds in Europe and Asia during the late 
1930s caused some military planners to prepare for possible U. S. involvement. 
This led to several important developments at Fort Riley. The first was 
the rebuilding of Camp Funston and the stationing of the 2nd Cavalry Division 
there in December 1940. Barracks were built in the area known as Republican 
Flats and renamed Camp Forsyth. In addition, 32,000 acres (129 km²) were 
added to the post for training purposes. These efforts were brought into 
sharp focus with America’s entry into World War II. Over the next four 
years, approximately 125,000 soldiers were trained at these facilities. 
Notable trainees included heavyweight boxing champion, Joe Louis, Indy 
car driver Walt Faulkner,and motion picture stars such as Mickey Rooney. 
The post also received a presidential visit by Franklin Roosevelt on Easter 
Sunday 1943. The 9th Armored Division was organized here in July 1942 and 
after its deployment, Camp Funston was used as a German prisoner of war 
camp. Fort Riley had branch POW camps, a large branch Camp Phillips in 
Salina, and 12 smaller branch camps in Kansas and Missouri: Council Grove, 
El Dorado, Eskridge, Hutchinson, Lawrence, Neodesha, Ottawa, Peabody, Wadsworth, 
Grand Pass, Lexington, Liberty.[4] The arrival of victory in Europe and 
Japan during the spring and summer of 1945, were joyous occasions, but 
they also spelled new realities and directions for the Army and Fort Riley. 
In the aftermath of World War II, the fort experienced a period of transition. 
The Cavalry School ceased operation in November 1946, and the last tactical 
horse unit inactivated the following March. Replacing the Cavalry School 
was the Ground General School, which trained newly commissioned officers 
in basic military subjects. An officer’s candidate course was conducted 
along with training officers and enlisted men in intelligence techniques 
and methods. The 10th Mountain Division was activated July 1, 1948, at 
Fort Riley, Kansas. The 16-week basic military program conducted by this 
division prepared soldiers for infantry combat and duty with other infantry 
units. The invasion of South Korea by North Korean forces in June 1950, 
once again brought attention to Fort Riley as an important training facility. 
Over the next few years, recruits from all over the United States came 
to Fort Riley and received basic training. The 37th Infantry Division, 
made up of units from the Ohio National Guard, was also stationed here 
during the conflict. While they were not sent overseas, their presence 
was a continuing reinforcement of the fort’s importance as a training post. 
The uneasy truce that settled on the Korean peninsula after 1953 was indicative 
of a cold war that had come to characterize relations between the United 
States and the Soviet Union. This would affect Fort Riley. In 1955, the 
fort’s utilization changed from training and educational center to that 
of being the home base for a major infantry division. In that year, the 
10th Division rotated to Germany as part of “Operation Gyroscope” and was 
replaced by the 1st Infantry Division. Elements of the Big Red One began 
arriving in July 1955 and over the next four years the remaining units 
arrived, the last being the 2nd Battle Group, 8th Infantry, in December, 
1959. The initial units occupied barracks located in Camp Funston, until 
new barracks were built on Custer Hill. Ultimately, the 1st Battle Group, 
5th Infantry would be stationed at Funston, with the other units of the 
division divided between Custer Hill, Forsythe and Main post. OPERATION 
LONG THRUST: Consistent with President Kennedy's August 1961 directive 
to augment U.S. Berlin Brigade, in 1962-1963 1st Infantry Division rotated 
four Infantry Battle Group Task Forces (reinforced by Big Red One Artillery 
& Transportation units) from Ft. Riley to West Germany from where they 
motor marched through communist East Germany to surrounded West Berlin. 
1st Division units involved were 2nd Battle Group, 12th Infantry; 1st Battle 
Group, 13th Infantry; 1st Battle Group, 28th Infantry; & 2nd Battle Group, 
26th Infantry. 2/12th was in Berlin during the Cuban Missile Crisis. 1/28th 
greeted President Kennedy on 26 June 1963, the day of his memorable "Ich 
bin Ein Berliner" speech. The influx of troops and dependents placed new 
demands on the fort’s infrastructure. Work began on Custer Hill where new 
quarters, barracks and work areas were constructed. A new hospital, named 
in honor of Major General B. J. D. Irwin, was constructed to provide medical 
care. In the decade following, 1st Infantry Division units trained to respond 
to any threat that might arise in Europe or other parts of the world. Construction 
of the Berlin Wall in 1961 and Cuban Missile Crisis the following year 
witnessed heightened alert for soldiers stationed at Fort Riley. An additional 
50,000 acres (200 km²) were also acquired in 1966, which enabled the Army 
to have an adequate training area for the division’s two brigades. Increased 
guerrilla insurgency in South Vietnam during the mid-1960s, led to the 
deployment of the 1st Infantry Division to Southeast Asia. The leading 
element, the 1st Battalion, 18th Infantry, left in July 1965 with the Division 
Headquarters arriving in South Vietnam in September. During this same year, 
a provisional basic combat training brigade was organized at Fort Riley 
and in February 1966, the 9th Infantry Division was reactivated and followed 
the 1st Infantry Division into combat. Fort Riley’s use as a divisional 
post was maintained with the arrival of the 24th Infantry Division. The 
division remained in Germany until September 1968, when it redeployed two 
brigades to Fort Riley as part of the REFORGER (Return of Forces to Germany) 
program. One brigade was maintained in Germany. Following nearly five years 
of combat in Vietnam, the 1st Infantry Division returned to Fort Riley 
in April 1970 and assumed the NATO commitment. The division’s 3rd Brigade 
was stationed in West Germany. During the 1970s and the 1980s, 1st Infantry 
Division soldiers were periodically deployed on REFORGER exercises. Reserve 
Officer Training Corps summer camps were also held at the fort, which permitted 
troops to demonstrate and teach their skills to aspiring second lieutenants. 
The fort also hosted the model U. S. Army Correctional Brigade, housed 
in Camp Funston, and the 3rd ROTC Region Headquarters until their inactivation 
in 1992. In August 1990, Iraq invaded its neighbor, Kuwait. The resulting 
international outcry led to the largest U.S. troop build-up and deployment 
overseas since the Vietnam War. In the fall of that year, Fort Riley was 
notified to begin mobilization of troops and equipment for deployment to 
the Persian Gulf. Between November 1990 and January 1991, soldiers and 
equipment were deployed overseas. In addition to the 1st Infantry Division, 
27 non-divisional units were deployed and twenty-four reserve components 
were mobilized. This amounted to 15,180 soldiers being sent overseas via 
115 aircraft. Over 2,000 rail cars transported 3,000 short tons of equipment 
which were then shipped to theater on 18 vessels. Once in theater, the 
soldiers and equipment were readied for combat. This commenced in late 
February 1991, and over the course of the ‘hundred hours’ combat of Operation 
Desert Storm, these soldiers carried out their orders and executed their 
missions that resulted in the crushing of Saddam Hussein’s Republican Guards. 
Later that spring, the soldiers returned to Fort Riley. Following Operation 
Desert Storm, the 1st Infantry Division returned to Fort Riley. But the 
winds of change were once again blowing across the Army and affected the 
post. The Cold War of the past four decades was being replaced by new realities 
in Eastern Europe with the crumbling of the Iron Curtain. Budget cuts and 
revised strategic thinking resulted in troop cutbacks. In the spring of 
1995, the headquarters of the 1st Infantry Division was transferred from 
Fort Riley to Germany. The 1st Brigade of the Big Red One remained at the 
post, along with 3rd Brigade, 1st Armored Division and the 937th Engineer 
Group. On June 5, 1999, Fort Riley once again became a Division Headquarters 
with the reactivation of the 24th Infantry Division (Mechanized). The 24th 
Infantry Division (Mech.) is the Headquarters for three enhanced Separate 
Brigades (eSBs) of the Army National Guard. Under the integrated Active 
Component/Reserve Component concept, the 24th Infantry Division (Mech.) 
consists of an active component headquarters at Fort Riley and three enhanced 
Separate Brigades: 30th Heavy Separate Brigade at Clinton, North Carolina, 
218th Heavy Separate Brigade at Columbia, South Carolina, and the 48th 
Separate Infantry Brigade in Macon, Georgia. These units were on eight-year 
training cycles that culminate in a National Training Center rotation. 
They also back-fill active duty units for Major Theater War contingencies 
and provide units for Stabilization Force rotations in Bosnia. On April 
21, 2003, the 3rd Brigade 1st Armored Division deployed in support of Operation 
Iraqi Freedom. The 3rd Brigade conducted combat operation in and around 
Baghdad, Iraq in support of the 1st Armored Divisions mission to secure 
and stabilize the city of Baghdad. Over the next 9 years, Fort Riley units 
supported combat operations both Iraq and Afghanistan. On June 1, 2006, 
Fort Riley began training Military Transition Teams, or MiTTs. These 10-15 
man teams from across the Army, Navy and Air Force train at Fort Riley's 
Camp Funston for 60 days. Transition Team training is focused training 
preparing teams to train, mentor and advise Iraqi and Afghan security forces. 
Training is based on core competencies—combat skills, force protection, 
team support processes, technical and tactical training, adviser skills, 
counter insurgency operations and understanding the culture. Soldiers from 
Fort Riley continue to be deployed to areas in all corners of the world. 
From Southwest Asia to the Caribbean and the Balkans, Fort Riley soldiers 
have been engaged in numerous peacekeeping and nation-building missions. 
They continue to hone their skills by periodic deployments to the National 
Training Center located at Fort Irwin, California and the Joint Readiness 
Training Center at Fort Polk, Louisiana. On August 1, 2006, the 1st Infantry 
Division returned to Fort Riley and replaced the 24th Infantry Division 
as the post's main Division. In October 2006, the 1st Brigade, 1st Infantry 
Division, assumed command and control of the Military Transition Team training 
mission. The entire division took the lead on this mission for the military. 
The mission was moved from Fort Riley to Fort Polk, LA, in the summer of 
2009. A year after the post was established in 1853, a temporary hospital 
was constructed near the present day Post/Cavalry Museum and Patton Hall 
on the main post. A permanent hospital, which is now the Post/Cavalry Museum, 
was built in 1855 with a clock tower added in 1890. The second hospital 
replaced the 1855 hospital in 1888 and is now Post Headquarters. A third 
hospital was built in 1941 at Camp Whitside and named Cantonment Hospital, 
later Station Hospital. The second hospital remained as an annex until 
1957. The current and fourth hospital was dedicated in 1958. The fourth 
and current hospital was named after Brigadier General Bernard John Dowling 
Irwin "The Fighting Doctor" who won the Medal of Honor for distinguished 
gallantry in action during an engagement with the Chiricahua Indians near 
Apache Pass Arizona in February 1861.[5] A new hospital near the current 
hospital is currently under construction and scheduled to be complete in 
2014. Coordinates: 39°06′N 96°49′W﻿ / ﻿39.100°N 96.817°W﻿ / 39.100; -96.817 
