The Fort Myers Miracle is the Class A Advanced minor league baseball affiliate 
of the Minnesota Twins Major League Baseball club, based in Fort Myers, 
Florida and currently managed by Jeff Smith. Home games are played at the 
CenturyLink Sports Complex in Hammond Stadium, which has a capacity of 
7,500, and opened in 1991. The park is also used as the Minnesota Twins' 
Spring training facility. Prior to Twins Spring training and the 2014 Florida 
State League season, Phase I of a two-part renovation was completed with 
the addition of an outfield boardwalk. The second phase of the renovation, 
which includes new sky suites, concessions, wider concourses and new offices 
for the Miracle staff, will be completed before Spring training in 2015. 
Due to the start of construction on Phase II in August 2014, the Miracle 
played the final 10 home dates, including playoffs, at JetBlue Park. The 
majority owner is SJS Beacon, a privately held company managed by Jason 
Hochberg, who purchased the club from the Goldklang Group at the beginning 
of the 2014 season.[1] Musician Jimmy Buffett and actor Bill Murray were 
minority owners of the team. The Miracle franchise was founded in 1926, 
as the Fort Myers Palms. One year later, the team moved to Miami, Florida 
and were renamed the Miami Hustlers. The team became temporarily inactive, 
with the rest of the Florida State League, midway through the 1928 season. 
Even though the Florida State League resumed play in 1936, the Hustlers 
remained inactive until they were reactivated by the FSL during the 1961–1962 
offseason to serve as the Class D affiliate of the Philadelphia Phillies. 
The team was renamed the Miami Marlins in honor of the original Marlins 
of the Triple-A International League who had moved to San Juan, Puerto 
Rico (and subsequently Charleston, South Carolina) following the 1960 season. 
In 1963, there was a restructuring of the classification system of all 
Minor League Baseball, which resulted in the FSL changing from Class D 
to its current status of Class A-Advanced. They became a Baltimore Orioles 
affiliate in 1966, and were renamed the Miami Orioles after their MLB parent 
club from 1971–1981. Upon the Baltimore Orioles' severing of their affiliation 
with the Miami Orioles following the 1981 season, the franchise reverted 
to the Marlins name and participated in the 1982 FSL season as an independent 
entry. Without a Major League affiliate, this team was composed of undrafted 
players from the area, free agents from various organizations and players 
on loan from the Baltimore Orioles, San Diego Padres, and Oakland A's organizations. 
The following season the Miami Marlins became a San Diego Padres affiliate. 
This partnership lasted two years and the Marlins were without a parent 
club for the 1985 season.[citation needed] They filled their roster with 
ten former major leaguers looking to rejuvenate their careers with only 
Dennis Martínez returning to the majors. In 1987, the team moved away from 
former major leaguers to bring in Japanese stars.[2] In 1988, the team 
began the season at Bobby Maduro Miami Stadium, but moved later in the 
season to the Miami-Hialeah Lakes High School field.[3] The Marlins had 
per-game attendance totals of approximately 100 fans.[2] On 000000001989-02-22-0000February 
22, 1989, the South Florida Baseball Club Limited Partnership purchased 
the Marlins and were renamed the Miami Miracle. They moved the team from 
Miami Stadium, which the team had called home for the vast majority of 
its time in South Florida, to Florida International University's University 
Park with some games to be held at Key West High School.[2][3] South Florida 
BC LP consisted of Stuart Revo, managing partner, Marvin Goldklang, South 
Florida commercial real estate developer Michael M. Adler; Potamkin Television, 
New Age Broadcasting automobile dealership group Potamkin Companies president 
Alan Potamkin; Sillerman-Magee Communication Management Corp. CEO Robert 
Sillerman, actor Bill Murray and recording artist Jimmy Buffett. E.J. Narcise 
was named general manager. While having a partial affiliation with the 
Cleveland Indians and the Tokyo Giants of the Japanese league, the Miracle 
were considered an independent entry in the FSL.[3] The team only received 
9 players from the Indians for the 1989 season and had to scramble to find 
players like pitcher Longo Garcia who was released by the San Francisco 
Giants organization having been a tenth round draft pick. Jim Gattis was 
named manager by April 1989.[2] The Miracle were sold again a year later 
to the Marv Goldklang Group. Mike Veeck (son of Hall of Fame inductee Bill 
Veeck, and author of the book, Fun is Good) also became part owner of the 
organization while Murray and Buffett still maintained their shares as 
well. In 1990, the team moved again, playing its home games at Pompano 
Beach Municipal Stadium. The team spent two seasons in Pompano Beach with 
future big league skipper Fredi González at the helm.[4] In 1992, with 
the impending arrival of MLB's Florida Marlins, the Goldklang Group returned 
the Miracle to Fort Myers. The Miracle operated as a co-op club with the 
Minnesota Twins that season, and became a full Twins affiliate a year later. 
The current Player Development Contract runs through 2018.[5] Since moving 
to Fort Myers for the 1992 season, the Miracle have qualified for the Florida 
State League Playoffs eight times. The Miracle won the FSL West Division 
first half in 2003 and 2008 and the FSL West second half in 1995, 2000 
and 2006. In 2009, the Florida State League adopted a North–South setup 
of divisions. In that year, the Miracle won both the FSL South first and 
second half under manager Jeff Smith. Despite a regular season record of 
80-58 and winning game one of a best-of-three series on the road, the Charlotte 
Stone Crabs defeated the Miracle in games two and three. After a three 
season hiatus, the Miracle returned to the FSL Playoffs under first-year 
manager Doug Mientkiewicz. Guiding a star-studded team of Twins prospects 
such as Miguel Sano, Kennys Vargas and Eddie Rosario, the Miracle won the 
first half in the FSL South with a 45-22 record. The 45 wins tied the franchise 
record for the most in a single half and the winning percentage of .672 
marked the best for a half in team history. Posting the best overall record 
in the Florida State League at 79-56 during the regular season, the Miracle 
again fell to the Stone Crabs in the FSL South Divisional Playoff. Charlotte 
held the league-best Fort Myers offense, that included the consensus top 
prospect in baseball Byron Buxton, to just one run in a two-game sweep. 
Entering the 2014 season, the Miracle had appeared in the Florida State 
League Championship series twice; losing to the Daytona Cubs in 1995 and 
2008. For a second consecutive season, Mientkiewicz led the Miracle to 
a first half title in the FSL South, narrowly edging the St. Lucie Mets 
by one game in the standings with a final day win, 4-0, over the Bradenton 
Marauders. Fort Myers finished with a first half record of 41-28 with a 
roster featuring top prospects Jose Berrios, Jorge Polanco and Adam Brett 
Walker. During the 2014 campaign, Walker broke the Miracle franchise record 
for home runs in a season with 25; previously held by Brock Peterson with 
21 in 2006. Walker was also a 2014 FSL All-Star Game MVP and Home Run Derby 
Champion at the 2014 FSL All-Star Game in Bradenton, Florida at McKechnie 
Field. In the second half, the Miracle posted a record of 41-29 for an 
overall mark of 82-57, second-best in team history. In the FSL South Divisional 
Playoff, the Miracle faced Bradenton. Trailing 7-3 in the top of the fourth 
inning, Jason Kanzler hit an opposite field grand slam to tie the game 
in the first of a best-of-three series. After the fifth inning, play was 
halted for 58 minutes due to rain. When the game resumed in the top of 
the sixth, Dalton Hicks drove in the eventual game-winning run with a single. 
The Miracle won game one, 8-7, and Kanzler had six runs batted in. In game 
two, the Miracle scored six runs in the bottom of the third inning to take 
6-1 lead. Miracle starter D. J. Baxendale earned the win with six innings 
allowing just one unearned run and five strikeouts. After a two-game sweep 
of the Marauders, the Miracle advanced to the FSL Championship series for 
the third time in team history. Facing the Cubs again, the Miracle hosted 
the first two games of the best-of-five series at JetBlue Park. The Miracle 
pitching staff allowed just one run in a pair of wins. Fort Myers took 
game one, 5-1, and game two, 5-0. With a 2-0 series lead for the Miracle, 
the Cubs staved off elimination in game three at Jackie Robinson Ballpark 
in Daytona, Florida After a two-hour, seven-minute delay, the Cubs and 
Miracle engaged in a back-and-forth battle with Daytona eventually going 
on to win, 8-7. The Cubs trailed 6-5 in the bottom of the eighth inning, 
but took the lead on a three-run homer by Wilson Contreras. After the Cubs' 
win, the two teams had to wait a day after heavy storms made the field 
in Daytona unplayable. On Monday, September 8, the Miracle and Cubs played 
game four. Fort Myers built a 2-0 lead midway through the fourth inning. 
Daytona tied the game in the sixth. Going into extra innings, Kanzler gave 
the Miracle a 4-2 lead with a two-run homer in the top of the eleventh. 
Zack Jones recorded a perfect ninth inning, striking out Contreras for 
the save. The FSL Championship was the first in team history since moving 
to Fort Myers in 1992. The series win also marked the first time the Daytona 
Cubs had lost a FSL Playoff series. The Miracle's name and logo appeared 
in the 1998 film Major League: Back to the Minors. Gus Cantrell (Scott 
Bakula) pitched for the Miracle before retiring to become the manager of 
the Buzz. Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches 7-day 
disabled list * On Minnesota Twins 40-man roster # Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve 
list ‡ Restricted list § Suspended list † Temporary inactive list Roster 
updated April 24, 2016 Transactions → More MiLB rosters → Minnesota Twins 
minor league players † Injured & did not play †† Promoted & did not play 
