The Fort Wayne Kekiongas were a professional baseball team, notable for 
winning the first professional league game on May 4, 1871.[1] Kekionga 
- pronounced KEY-key-awn-guh - is the name of Chief Little Turtle's Miami 
Indian settlement where the St. Joseph River and the St. Marys River join 
to form the Maumee River. This was the largest settlement of the Miami 
tribe. General "Mad" Anthony Wayne erected Fort Wayne at that same confluence, 
and the modern city of Fort Wayne, Indiana grew up around the fort. In 
the language of the Miami tribe, kekionga means Blackberry Patch. In April 
1862, several young men gathered in Fort Wayne, Indiana to form the Summit 
City Club to play baseball. Banker Allen Hamilton donated land between 
major thorofares Calhoun and Clinton Street, south of Lewis Street, for 
a ball field. The field was eventually named Hamilton Field. Play was short-lived, 
as members enlisted in the Grand Army of the Republic, some dying in the 
war. The club reorganized in 1866,[2] and a second team, the Kekionga Base 
Ball Club of Fort Wayne, was formed that year as well. The first game of 
the 1866 schedule saw the Kekiongas win against the Enterprise of Sydney 
by a score of 54-34. The game was played in Sydney on 24 Aug, 1866 with 
a time of 3 hours and 40 minutes. Charles Taylor and John Evans each hit 
a home run for the Kekiongas. Diehl was captain for this game.[3] The club 
sent a challenge to "the champion club of the state", who were based in 
La Porte, Indiana for a match on 18 Sep 1866, but no results were recorded.[4] 
The Kekiongas defeated a local rival by a score of 66-40. The game was 
played in Fort Wayne in Oct, 1866. The Kekiongas second baseman, Lumbard, 
hit two home runs while the shortstop Bell hit one home run. John Hoagland 
was captain for this game.[5]On 9 Nov, 1866, the Kekiongas played the last 
game of their season against the same Summit City ballclub, winning 80-29. 
Kekiongas hit twelve home runs during the game, with Bell accounting for 
four and Hoagland, Hadden, F.A. Gorham, Lumbard, Aveline, Diehl, C. Gorham 
and Shoaff each contributing one. Aveline was awarded a "huge cigar" for 
making the least number of outs while scoring the most runs (0 outs, 11 
runs).[6] Catchers The following year, they played several games during 
1867, touring around the upper Midwest. Frank H. Wolke, who served as a 
non-player with the club, was the Vice President of the 1867 State Base 
Ball Convention in Indianapolis, Indiana.[7] George Mayers also attended 
the conference and was chosen captain of a team composed of other conference 
attendees. The team played another club named the Westerns and lost, 50-8. 
The "Picked Nine" cited unfamiliarity with their teammates for their defeat.[8] 
The first game of the schedule was an exhibition of the Kekiongas First 
Nine versus their Second Nine in Jul 1867. The First Nine topped the Second 
Nine by a score of 54-45.[9] The Kekiongas were hosted by the Toledo, Ohio 
ballclub on 25 Jul 1867. Rather than treat other teams as opponents, clubs 
would often go to great lengths to extend graciousness and hospitality 
to their rivals. The two clubs dined together the night before the game[10] 
and one of the members of the Toledo club arranged for a private train 
car for the Kekiongas' return trip. Players F.A. Gorham and Charles Gorham 
drafted an announcement for the Fort Wayne Daily Gazette publicly lauding 
the Toledo club.[11] Toledo visited Fort Wayne on 22 Aug 1867, results 
were not recorded.[12] Kekiongas played Kendallville, Indiana in early 
Sep 1867, with Kekiongas winning after the Fort Wayne players, described 
as "turbulent and rowdy" by the Kendallville Standard, argued with the 
umpire after the third inning. In the opinion of the Kendallville newspaper, 
the umpire then "favored the Fort Wayne Club in every instance, and giving 
a number of most outrageous and unjust decisions." The Fort Wayne newspaper 
refers to Kendallville bragging after a victory against the Kekiongas earlier 
in the year.[13] On 10 Sep 1867, the Fort Wayne Daily Gazette published 
a letter from "a member of the Kendallville baseball club" which displays 
contemporary insults during the early American Civil War. The editor published 
the letter spellatim et literatim, which was derivative of the Latin verbatim 
et literatim meaning word-for-word. In this case, the editor wanted the 
readers to know that the incorrect spelling was from the original letter. 
...but it were not a Ball Play, the game Played there were played by Some 
Outsiders. the Fort Wayne Democrat called them Gentlemen, but if they associate 
with him, we would like to no if he is a Gentleman. O, Shame Democrat. 
We did not thing you would associate with Such Low Vagabonds, Scape Gallowses, 
and Pickpockets, Gamblers and Hellish Looking Specimens of humanity as 
they are. Mr. Democrat Said that if the Keyiongas could not beat us playing 
the would whip us, that is nice talk for an Editor of a Copperhead Papper 
did you thing about fiting when Our Country were about to be destroyed 
by Some of your Brethren in the South, you would Like perhaps to get the 
game fought out by some others, and you would stop at your Cheese Press 
and Blow, all wee ask is for you to keep your blubber head Shut and not 
disturb yourself About the B.B. affairs, and if you are a Jentleman for 
God Sake Place it in your Local So that Others ma See Some of your Wonderous 
Works up here.[14] Fort Wayne hosted a team from Peru, Indiana and defeated 
them 23-7 in six innings on 9 Sep 1867. Charles Gorham hit a home run for 
the Kekiongas.[15] The Empires were hosted by Kekiongas on 5 Oct 1867 with 
Kekiongas winning 37-6. No home runs were recorded for Fort Wayne.[16] 
Catchers The Kekiongas played the legendary 1869 Cincinnati Red Stockings 
twice. The Red Stockings were the first baseball team in the USA to have 
all paid players, and went $16,000 in debt - nearly half a million in today's 
dollars - to do so. Cincinnati won the first game 86–8, but as Fort Wayne 
had improved over the summer, they only achieved a 41-7 victory in the 
second contest. The 1869 Red Stockings ended up with 57 victories and 1 
tie for the season. The following summer, the Maryland Club of Baltimore 
broke up in mid-season, and the Kekiongas recruited their best players, 
including pitcher Bobby Matthews, who is credited with having invented 
the spitball and being the first master of the curveball. When the team 
played the Chicago White Sox later that season, the Chicago fans were so 
humiliated that they threw rocks at Fort Wayne players, injuring several 
of them. The National Association of Professional Base Ball Players was 
formed in New York City in 1871. In addition to the Kekiongas, the other 
teams were based in Philadelphia, Chicago, Boston, Washington, D.C., Troy, 
New York, New York City, Cleveland, Ohio and Rockford, Illinois. Each team 
was to play a best-3-of-5 series with each other team, and the best team 
would be able to fly a pennant for a year. The franchise fee for each team 
was $10. Season tickets, or "Subscriptions" for the Kekiongas sold for 
$5 in 1871, and allowed entry to games for two people. The honor of playing 
the first game of the newly organized National Association of Professional 
Base Ball Players was decided by coin flip. Bobby Mathews, 5'5", 140 lbs, 
and 20 years old, hurled a 2-0 shutout for the Kekiongas. Deacon White, 
catcher for the Cleveland Forest Citys got 3 hits in 4 at-bats; the other 
Cleveland players only shared 2 hits among them. Deacon White scored the 
first hit, the first extra-base hit (a double) and was the first to hit 
into a double-play. The game was rained out in the top of the 9th inning. 
Attendance was 200, and the home plate umpire was John Boake. Bobby Mathews, 
who went on to play five seasons each in the National Association, National 
League, and American Association, is the only player ever to pitch 100 
games or to win at least 50 in three different major leagues. He is credited 
with inventing the spitball and the out-curve. Deacon White was another 
historic player, ending his 22-year career as playing owner of Buffalo's 
Brotherhood team. Although the team is conventionally called the "Fort 
Wayne Kekiongas", using the modern context of a city name plus a nickname, 
the actual name of the team was "Kekiongas" and was so listed in standings, 
rather than "Fort Wayne". Referring to the team as the "Kekiongas" is equivalent 
to calling the team from Chicago as the "Chicago" or the team from Boston 
as the "Boston". The community raised funds and erected a grandstand at 
Kekionga Base Ball Grounds, located on the former Union Army training grounds, 
Camp Allen. The grandstand was called "The Grand Dutchess" because of its 
lavish construction. (The publication Batter Up refers to the grandstand 
as the Grand Dutchess, not the Old Dutchess.[citation needed] It is also 
called the Grand Dutchess in Twentieth Century History of Fort Wayne, by 
John Ankenbruck[citation needed] and in an article in the Fort Wayne Daily 
Sentinel, November 6, 1871.)[citation needed] Paid attendance was poor, 
and players were poorly paid, or not at all. A number of homesick players 
from Baltimore returned home. By mid-season, the team had fallen apart, 
and the last game was played on August 29, giving the Kekiongas 7 wins 
for the year. The team was managed by Bill Lennon for the first 14 games, 
then Harry Deane for the final five.[17] Leading the offense for the Kekiongas 
was first-baseman James H. "Jim" Foran, who hit .348. Only 23 at the time, 
he had previously played third-base for the Philadelphia Athletics. He 
never again played professional baseball, and died at the age of 80 in 
Los Angeles. The Grand Dutchess burned down on November 5, 1871. By the 
time the fire department arrived, the fire had too great a start to salvage 
the grandstand. Bobby Mathews won 6 and lost 11 games for the Kekiongas, 
but it probably was not his fault. He played five years in each of three 
different major leagues, and is the only player ever to win over 50 games 
in each of the major leagues. That's an even greater accomplishment considering 
that he played outfield on days he wasn't pitching. Bobby Mathews won 42 
games in 1874 for the New York Mutuals (National League). Parker, Robert 
