In baseball, a foul ball is a batted ball that:[1][2] A foul fly shall 
be judged according to the relative position of the ball and the foul line, 
including the foul pole, and not as to whether the fielder is on foul or 
fair territory at the time he touches the ball. Foul territory or foul 
ground is defined as the area of the field outside of the foul lines. The 
foul lines and foul poles are not part of foul territory. In general, when 
a batted ball is ruled a foul ball, the ball is dead, all runners must 
return to their time-of-pitch base without liability to be put out, and 
the batter returns to home plate to continue his turn at bat. A strike 
is issued for the batter if he had fewer than two strikes. If the batter 
already has two strikes against him when he hits a foul ball, a strike 
is not issued unless the ball was bunted to become a foul ball, in which 
case a third strike is issued and a strikeout recorded for the batter and 
pitcher. A strike is, however, recorded for the pitcher for every foul 
ball the batter hits, regardless of the count. If any member of the fielding 
team catches a foul ball before it touches the ground or lands outside 
the field perimeter, the batter is out. A foul ball is different from a 
foul tip, in which the ball makes contact with the bat, travels directly 
to the catcher's hands, and is caught. In this case, a strike is issued 
to the batter regardless of the ball/strike count, and runners may attempt 
to advance. In a retractable or fixed roof baseball facility, a batted 
ball is a foul ball if it: Rules vary from stadium to stadium for a ball 
striking the roof or suspended object in foul territory. Some consider 
such a ball to still be in flight, while others consider it a foul ball 
and dead from the time it strikes. A ball that hits the roof or a suspended 
object in fair territory is in play. If it gets stuck in fair territory, 
it is ruled a ground rule double, and all runners advance two bases.[citation 
needed] On rare occasions, such as in extra innings or the ninth inning 
of a tie game when a runner is on third base, fielders have been known 
to let long foul flies drop rather than risk losing the game on a sacrifice 
fly. Sometimes, in that situation, a fielder will not try to catch a ball 
that is close to the foul line in the hope that the ball will go foul at 
the last second—neither catching the ball nor letting it drop would prevent 
a defeat. In different situations, a foul ball may be considered a positive 
or negative outcome of a pitch or swing. When there are zero or one strikes, 
a foul ball counts as a strike, benefiting the pitcher. However, a foul 
ball may reveal to the batter that he has timed a pitch well and need only 
make adjustment to the location of his swing on the next such pitch; this 
is often called a good cut or simply a good swing. Foul balls with two 
strikes are generally considered positive for the batter, since he thus 
avoids strike three on a potentially difficult pitch. Also, foul balls 
with two strikes increase the pitcher's pitch count, adding to his/her 
fatigue, thus providing some small advantage to the offense. A strategy 
of swinging on any ball to try to produce additional fouls and prolong 
an at-bat is often used against strong pitchers to try to drive them from 
the game sooner (and also the possibility of the pitcher throwing a pitch 
a hitter can get a hit on); this does, however, have the disadvantage of 
