In baseball, the fourth out is a legal out made by the defense after three 
outs in a half-inning already have been made. According to the rules, the 
third out does not cause the ball to become dead; if the fielders make 
a subsequent out that prevents a run from scoring, this out will supersede 
the apparent third out, thus becoming the recorded third out.[1] For statistical 
purposes, the apparent third out is "undone" and the fourth out's result 
is recorded instead. With the advent of video replay appeals, a new rationale 
for making extra out(s) has emerged - insurance against a prior out being 
undone on appeal. These fourth out situations are not the same as four 
strikeouts in an inning. The motivation for making a fourth out is to nullify 
a scored run, by either putting out the runner who had scored (on appeal, 
if the player failed to tag up after a catch) or putting out an additional 
runner who is forced to advance. No run may score on an inning-ending play 
in which the third out is a force out or on the batter before he reaches 
first base. Put in other words, force outs count before runs are scored. 
It is common that a runner reaches home plate a moment before the third 
out is made by force out. Such a case is routine; the runner doesn't score 
but is counted as left on base. It is also common that the third out might 
come on a non-force tag out after another runner reaches home plate. By 
extension of these two rules, the "fourth out" covers the case where the 
third out is not a force out, but a subsequent out is. Since the force 
out counts before the run scores, it must also count before the third out. 
Apparently there are no known MLB examples of a fourth out changing places 
with a prior out and thereby cancelling a run. The situations where a fourth 
out may be recognized are exceedingly rare, but some hypothetical examples, 
and two real examples where the fourth out rule did come into play, are 
noted below: Suppose three runners are on base with two outs, and the batter 
hits the ball within the field of play for an apparent hit. Two important 
facts are required: All three runners cross home plate safely, but the 
runner who was at first misses second base while rounding the bases. After 
the runner from first has come around to score, the batter is then thrown 
out trying to stretch a bases-clearing double into a triple. The apparent 
play is that 3 runners have scored on an apparent double, with the batter 
out advancing. RULING: The fielders have a viable appeal play at second 
base. If the defensive team is alert enough and understand the rules regarding 
fourth outs, the defensive team may make a live ball appeal that the runner 
who was initially at first base missed second base. If such an appeal is 
made, the runner from first base is out on a force out, because he failed 
to touch his force base (second base). As a result. This rule merely places 
the occurrence of the force out before any tag play when it ends the inning. 
Suppose there are runners on second and third base with two outs, and the 
batter hits a ground ball to third base. The runner from third scores, 
but the runner from second base is tagged out for the third out. Since 
the runner from third reached home plate before the third out was recorded, 
and the third out was not a force out or on the batter-runner before reaching 
first base, we seem to have three outs and a run scored. However, suppose 
that the batter-runner fell down on his way to first base and was injured, 
unable to walk (or that, having seen the runner tagged out, turned around 
and headed for the dugout before reaching first base). Then suppose that 
the fielders throw to first or tag the batter out. Since no run can score 
if the last out is made on the batter before he reaches first base, this 
fourth out prevents a run from scoring. Thus the runner from third is marked 
as left on base and his apparent run does not count; the runner from second 
is also left on base and his out is nullified; the batter-runner is out, 
which now becomes the actual third out.[citation needed] There are runners 
at first and third with two outs. The runners are attempting to steal on 
the pitch. The batter grounds to the shortstop. The runner from third base 
reaches home; then, the shortstop tags the runner who has rounded second 
(third out). The shortstop then throws to first base, which beats the batter-runner 
for the fourth out. The fourth out is on the batter before he reaches first 
base, so it replaces the apparent third out and nullifies the run.[citation 
needed] On April 12, 2009, in the top of the second inning in a game between 
the Los Angeles Dodgers and the Arizona Diamondbacks, the Dodgers scored 
a run because the Diamondbacks failed to record a fourth out. With one 
out and Juan Pierre on second base and Andre Ethier on third base, Dodgers 
pitcher Randy Wolf hit a line drive that was caught by Diamondbacks pitcher 
Dan Haren. Both Pierre and Ethier broke on contact without tagging up from 
their respective bases, and Haren, noticing this, threw the ball to Diamondbacks 
second baseman Felipe Lopez, who tagged out Pierre, but not until after 
Ethier crossed home plate. Upon tagging out Pierre, the Diamondbacks left 
the field, thinking that the inning was over and the run did not count. 
However, because Lopez tagged out Pierre rather than stepping on the second 
base bag to double off Pierre, the play was treated as a rundown and time 
play, rather than a force play, which would have ended the inning and canceled 
Ethier's crossing of home plate. After all of the Diamondbacks players 
had left fair territory, Dodgers bench coach Bob Schaefer informed manager 
Joe Torre of what was then Rule 7.10 (now Rule 5.09(c))[2] regarding fourth 
outs, and Torre went to home plate umpire Larry Vanover to alert him of 
the rule and situation. Vanover then discussed the situation with crew 
chief Charlie Reliford, and Dodgers were awarded the run before the bottom 
of the second inning began.[3] Since all of the Diamondbacks players had 
left fair territory, nobody could appeal that Ethier had not tagged up. 
If the Diamondbacks had launched an appeal play at third base before leaving 
the field, Ethier's failure to tag from third base would have become the 
actual third out of the inning and the run would not have scored, and this 
out would have taken precedence because it would have erased the run.[4] 
On April 18, 2014, in the bottom of the second inning of a game between 
the New York Mets and the Atlanta Braves, the Braves squelched an incipient 
Mets offensive threat by recording an "insurance" fourth out that anticipated 
a potential video replay appeal by Mets manager Terry Collins. With two 
out and Lucas Duda on at first base, Mets catcher Travis d'Arnaud grounded 
softly to the right side and, attempting to beat the throw by Braves second 
baseman Dan Uggla to first baseman Freddie Freeman, was ruled out on an 
extremely close play at first place. With three outs recorded, however, 
Freeman spotted Duda, who was originally on first, attempting to reach 
third and threw the ball across the diamond to third baseman Chris Johnson, 
who successfully tagged Duda out before he could reach third base. Moments 
later, Collins, who had emerged from the dugout to appeal the out at first 
(replays shown to the television audience revealed that d'Arnaud was actually 
safe at first and that Collins could have won this appeal) was forced to 
retreat back to the dugout without challenging when he realized that by 
Freeman and Johnson's recording of a fourth out on Duda, the Braves had 
