A four-seam fastball, also called a rising fastball, a four-seamer, or 
a cross-seam fastball, is a pitch in baseball. It is a member of the fastball 
family of pitches and is usually the hardest (i.e., fastest) ball thrown 
by a pitcher. A few pitchers at the major league level can sometimes reach 
a pitch speed of up to 100 mph. Compare with the two-seam fastball.[1] 
The four-seam fastball is designed purely for velocity; it travels to the 
batter's box with little or no "break" from straight-line flight—the intent 
being to challenge the batter's reaction time instead of fooling him with 
a pitch that breaks downward or to one side or the other. The ball is gripped 
with the index and middle fingers set on or across a line (cross-seam) 
of the "horseshoe" seam that faces outward, i.e., away from the pitcher's 
body. The thumb is placed directly underneath the ball; it rests on smooth 
leather with the base of the thumb overlaying a seam on the underside of 
the ball.[2] The four-seam fastball typically is thrown with a straight 
overhead swing of the throwing arm. The ball leaves the thumb at the top 
of the throwing motion as the index and middle fingers play their grip 
on the "top" seam to roll it down the "back" of the ball, which imparts 
backspin to the ball that lasts the distance of the pitch. The backspin 
affects the exchange of momentum between ball and surrounding air such 
that a lifting force called the Magnus effect offsets the downward pull 
of gravity on the ball; thus a hard-thrown fastball doesn't drop as much 
as other types of pitches and may even appear to rise as it approaches 
the plate. Further, backspin combined with the steady rotation of four 
seams in alignment with the direction of the pitch stabilizes the ball's 
flight-path. A successful four-seam fastball overpowers the batter with 
velocity, normally zipping through the strike zone before the batter can 
timely commit to swing. The faster a four-seamer pitch is accurately thrown, 
the more effective it will be. It is very difficult for a batter to get 
"around on" the pitch—to quickly swing the bat around to meet the ball—because 
he/she must swing very early to "catch up" to the speedy pitch. One of 
the most dramatic and frequent tableaus in baseball is that of a frustrated 
batter helplessly swinging "empty" on a fastball that has already passed 
the hitting zone, and frequently, has already made the catcher's mitt! 
Conversely, because the four-seamer doesn't break, it is quite hittable 
by the quick, "good-eye" batter who can "see" where the pitch will arrive. 
Moreover, its extreme velocity helps experienced batters to hit it extremely 
hard; that is, if a batter can "square up" on it, a four-seamer pitch can 
be readily hit for power. Further, a fastball's effectiveness decreases 
substantially if it is not accurately thrown, i.e., if the pitch is not 
under control. Due to its straight and level flight an errant fastball 
will not fool many batters as to its direction; thus, it elicits fewer 
swings and produces more walks when thrown outside the strike zone. As 
a pitcher's fastball loses "heat" (speed), more batters will have sufficient 
time to read and hit the pitch. Pitching or throwing a fastball "comes 
naturally" to most athletes who throw baseballs. The fastball is typically 
one of the first pitches taught to young pitchers. It requires very little 
unnatural motion of the arm, elbow or shoulders, and the ball comes off 
the fingers easily when the pitch is completed as it is intended to be 
thrown. The fastball is the most common of pitches, as almost all pitchers 
throw a fastball as part of their standard repertoire. Scientific studies 
have shown that the four-seam and two-seam fastballs have essentially the 
same flight paths and speeds,[3] but, typically, a batter perceives a difference 
between them. The perceived difference is due to flicker fusion threshold, 
which is defined as the frequency that a flashing light appears "steady" 
to the human eye. For example, for a series of flashed still-pictures to 
appear steady, the frequency of flashing has to be at a rate greater than 
the flicker fusion threshold, which for humans is about 60 Hz, or 60 cycles 
per second. A major league pitcher throws a baseball with a spin of around 
20 rotations per second (rps). With each rotation, a four-seam fastball 
presents four seams crossing the vision of the batter, producing a flicker 
rate of 80 Hz, which results in the batter not perceiving any features 
on the ball and having fewer visual cues than with the two-seamer to track 
it. Thus, the batter often perceives the four-seam fastball as faster and 
