Fox Sports South is an American regional sports network that is owned by 
Fox Cable Networks, a unit of the Fox Entertainment Group division of 21st 
Century Fox, and operates as an affiliate of Fox Sports Networks. The network 
carries regional coverage of professional and collegiate sports events 
from across the Southern United States, along with other sporting events 
and programming from FSN. Fox Sports South is available on cable providers 
throughout Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, South 
Carolina and Tennessee; it is also available nationwide on satellite via 
DirecTV and Dish Network. Fox Sports South was originally launched on August 
29, 1990 as SportSouth, under the ownership of the Turner Broadcasting 
System, in conjunction with business partners Tele-Communications Inc. 
(TCI) and Scripps-Howard Broadcasting. At its launch, the channel held 
the regional cable television rights to the Atlanta Braves, Atlanta Hawks 
and Charlotte Hornets. Shortly after Turner completed its merger with Time 
Warner, SportSouth was purchased by News Corporation's Fox Cable Networks 
in the winter of 1996; the channel was integrated into the recently formed 
Fox Sports Net group of regional sports networks, and was officially rebranded 
as Fox Sports South in the spring of 1997 (later amending the name to "Fox 
Sports Net South" in 2000, as part of a collective brand modification of 
the FSN networks under the "Fox Sports Net" banner). In 2002, Fox Sports 
South began producing the Southern Sports Report from its Midtown Atlanta 
studios, as part of the collective FSN networks' expansion of "regional 
sports reports" to compliment the National Sports Report, both formatted 
as daily news programs focusing on sports news and highlights. The Atlanta 
studios served as a production hub for the regional sports reports broadcast 
on other FSN networks, often utilizing the same anchors (with Terry Chick 
being the most prominent). The Southern Sports Report was discontinued 
in 2005; around the same time, FSN South began producing a similar program, 
Around The South, which focused on sports stories across the region. In 
2004, the channel shortened its name to FSN South, through the networks' 
de-emphasis of the Fox Sports Net brand. On February 23, 2006, News Corporation 
purchased the general entertainment cable channel Turner South from the 
Turner Broadcasting System for $375 million.[1] After the deal was completed, 
the channel dropped all remaining entertainment programming and converted 
into a sports-exclusive channel as it became part of the Fox Sports Networks 
group, adopting the "SportSouth" name formerly used by Fox Sports South. 
FSN South, which effectively became a sister network to the new SportSouth 
(which was renamed Fox Sports Southeast in October 2015[2]), reverted to 
the Fox Sports South moniker in 2008. In 2008, SportSouth acquired the 
partial television rights to the Atlanta Braves, splitting the telecasts 
with Atlanta independent station WPCH-TV (channel 17), which ceased distributing 
the station's Braves telecasts nationally after its separation from its 
companion superstation feed TBS (which became a conventional cable network) 
in October 2007.[3] After Turner turned over the operations of WPCH to 
the Meredith Corporation under a local marketing agreement in 2011, production 
of the Braves telecasts was transferred from Turner Sports to Fox Sports 
South, in a deal in which the channel would produce a package of 45 regular 
season games each year for WPCH. On February 28, 2013, Fox Sports South 
and SportSouth reached a deal with the Braves to acquire the 45 additional 
Atlanta Braves games beginning with the 2013 season, ending the team's 
contract with WPCH-TV and marking the first time in 40 years that the team's 
game telecasts were not available on broadcast television in the Atlanta 
market.[4][5] In July 2013, News Corporation spun off the Fox Sports Networks 
and most of its other U.S. entertainment properties into 21st Century Fox. 
Fox Sports South's coverage area includes Alabama, Georgia, Mississippi, 
North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, most of Kentucky and parts of 
Florida. It is, by far, the largest coverage by area and total market reach 
of any FSN affiliate. As such, the channel is often separated into several 
sub-regional feeds for the purposes of adhering to the various professional 
leagues' home territory rules. For example, Memphis Grizzlies and Nashville 
Predators games are only seen in Tennessee, most of Kentucky, northern 
Mississippi and northern Alabama, while Charlotte Hornets games are only 
seen in North and South Carolina. Neither team's games are seen elsewhere 
within Fox Sports South's coverage area, although Predators games are occasionally 
rebroadcast in North Carolina. In October 2008, Fox decided to split Fox 
Sports South into three separate channels to offer more localized sports 
coverage. It launched separate respective feeds for the Carolinas and most 
of Tennessee, Fox Sports Carolinas and Fox Sports Tennessee.[6] FSN considers 
these feeds as separate networks, which maintain their own sub-sites within 
the main Fox Sports Local website. The main Fox Sports South channel now 
only serves Georgia and most of Alabama, Kentucky and Mississippi. Fox 
Sports South holds the exclusive regional cable television rights to the 
Atlanta Braves Major League Baseball franchise; the Atlanta Hawks, Charlotte 
Hornets and Memphis Grizzlies of the NBA; the Atlanta Dream of the WNBA; 
and the Carolina Hurricanes and Nashville Predators of the NHL. The channel 
also provides coverage of collegiate sports events from the Atlantic Coast 
