Fox Sports Networks (FSN; formerly known as Fox Sports Net & simply FSN), 
is the collective name for a group of regional sports networks in the United 
States that are primarily owned and operated by the Fox Entertainment Group 
division of 21st Century Fox. Each of the networks carry regional broadcasts 
of sporting events from various professional, collegiate and high school 
sports teams (with broadcasts typically exclusive to each individual network, 
although some are shown on multiple FSN networks within a particular team's 
designated market area), along with regional and national sports discussion, 
documentary and analysis programs. Depending on their individual team rights, 
some Fox Sports Networks maintain overflow feeds available via digital 
cable, telco and satellite providers in their home markets, which may provide 
alternate programming when not used to carry game broadcasts that the main 
feed cannot carry due to scheduling conflicts. Fox Sports Networks is headquartered 
in Houston, Texas, with master control facilities based in both Houston 
and Los Angeles; FSN also maintains production facilities at Stage 19 at 
Universal Studios Florida (which formerly served as home of Nickelodeon 
Studios until its closure in 2005). At the dawn of the cable television 
era, many regional sports networks (RSNs) vied to compete with the largest 
national sports network, ESPN. The most notable were the SportsChannel 
networks, which first began operating in 1976 with the launch of the original 
SportsChannel (now MSG Plus) in the New York City area and later branched 
out into channels serving Chicago and Florida; Prime Network, which launched 
in 1983 with Home Sports Entertainment (now Fox Sports Southwest) as its 
charter member network and later branched out onto the West Coast as "Prime 
Sports"; and SportSouth, an RSN operated by the Turner Broadcasting System. 
On October 31, 1995, News Corporation, which ten years earlier launched 
the Fox Broadcasting Company, a general entertainment broadcast network 
that formed its own sports division in 1994 with the acquisition of the 
television rights to the National Football Conference of the National Football 
League, entered into a joint venture with TCI's Liberty Media, acquiring 
a 50% ownership interest in the company's Prime Sports affiliates.[1] On 
July 3, 1996, News Corporation and Liberty Media/TCI announced that the 
Prime Sports networks would be rebranded under the new "Fox Sports Net" 
brand;[2] the Prime Sports-branded affiliates were officially relaunched 
as Fox Sports Net on November 1 of that year.[3][4][5] That same year, 
Fox purchased SportSouth from Turner and rebranded that network as Fox 
Sports South. On June 30, 1997, the Fox/Liberty joint venture purchased 
a 40% interest in Cablevision's sports properties including the SportsChannel 
America networks, Madison Square Garden, and the New York Knicks and New 
York Rangers professional sports franchises, a deal worth $850 million; 
the deal formed the venture National Sports Partners to run the owned-and-operated 
regional networks.[6][7][8][9] In early 1998, SportsChannel America was 
integrated into the Fox Sports Net family of networks; SportsChannel Florida, 
however, remained as the lone SportsChannel America-branded network before 
it joined FSN as well in 2000 after News Corporation and Cablevision purchased 
Florida Panthers owner Wayne Huizenga's controlling interest in that network.[10] 
On July 11, 2000, Comcast purchased a majority interest in the Minneapolis-based 
Midwest Sports Channel and Baltimore-based Home Team Sports from Viacom.[11] 
News Corporation, a minority owner in both networks, wanted to acquire 
them outright and integrate the two networks into Fox Sports Net. The company 
filed a lawsuit against Comcast ten days later on July 21, in an attempt 
to block the sale.[12][13] On September 7, 2000, as part of a settlement 
between the two companies, Comcast traded its equity interest in Midwest 
Sports Channel (which became Fox Sports Net North) to News Corporation 
in exchange for exclusive ownership of Home Team Sports (which subsequently 
joined competing regional sports network Comcast SportsNet as Comcast SportsNet 
Mid-Atlantic).[14] In September 2004, Fox Sports Net became known simply 
as "FSN"; however the former name remained in common use until 2010, when 
"Fox Sports Local" was adopted for use in referencing its regional networks. 
On February 22, 2005, Fox's then-parent company, News Corporation, acquired 
full ownership of FSN/Fox Sports Local, following an asset trade with Cablevision 
Systems Corporation, in which Fox sold its interest in Madison Square Garden 
and the arena's NBA and NHL team tenants in exchange for acquiring sole 
ownership of Fox Sports Ohio and Fox Sports Florida. Cablevision simultaneously 
gained sole ownership of Fox Sports Chicago and Fox Sports New York, and 
a 50% interest in Fox Sports New England (with Comcast retaining its existing 
50% stake); Fox and Cablevision, however, retained joint ownership of Fox 
Sports Bay Area.[15][16] Fox Sports Chicago ceased operations in June 2006, 
after losing the regional cable television rights to local professional 
teams (including the Chicago Bulls, Blackhawks, Cubs and White Sox) two 
years earlier to the newly launched Comcast SportsNet Chicago.[17] On December 
22, 2006, News Corporation sold its interest in four Fox Sports regional 
networks – FSN Utah, FSN Pittsburgh, FSN Northwest and FSN Rocky Mountain 
– as well as its 38.5% ownership stake in satellite provider DirecTV to 
Liberty Media for $550 million in cash and stock, in exchange for Liberty's 
16.3% stake in News Corporation.[18][19] On May 4, 2009, DirecTV Group 
Inc. announced it would become a part of Liberty's entertainment unit, 
with plans to spin off certain properties into a separate company under 
the DirecTV name, which would operate the four acquired FSN-affiliated 
networks through DirecTV Sports Networks,[20] a new division formed on 
November 19, 2009, upon the spin-off's completion.[21] On April 30, 2007, 
Cablevision sold its 50% interests in the New England and Bay Area networks 
to Comcast for $570 million;[22] both networks became part of Comcast SportsNet, 
with FSN New England relaunching as Comcast SportsNet New England in July 
2007 and FSN Bay Area relaunching as Comcast SportsNet Bay Area March 2008. 
Despite Cablevision's sale of the networks, the channels continued to use 
"Fox Sports Net/National Sports Partners" in its copyright tag until 2008 
(the copyright used has since changed to "National Sports Programming"). 
On April 1, 2011, DirecTV Sports Networks rebranded its FSN regional affiliates 
under the Root Sports brand.[23] In 2012, FSN/Fox Sports Local relocated 
its headquarters from the Westwood neighborhood of Los Angeles, California 
to Houston, Texas. It was also in 2012 when FSN/Fox Sports Local was re-branded 
to its current branding. The FSN owned-and-operated networks were spun 
off along with most of News Corporation's U.S. entertainment properties 
into 21st Century Fox on July 1, 2013. FSN has often served as the testing 
ground for innovations in sports broadcast graphics developed by Fox and 
the source of inspiration for the graphical appearances adopted by other 
networks. The Fox Sports Networks were the first U.S. sports channels to 
introduce a banner graphic to display the game's score and remaining length 
placed on the top of the screen (initially known as the FoxBox). Since 
FSN implemented with the top-screen banner graphic, many other major networks 
have abandoned the corner box graphic in favor of the bar. FSN first used 
the scoring banner for most of its broadcasts beginning in 2001, using 
a simpler layout than the versions used in more recent years. It was designed 
as a transparent black rectangle, with abbreviations of the participating 
teams displayed in white and scores placed in yellow boxes (the white boxes 
for scores were used on some broadcasts until 2002), and the quarter or 
inning, time or number of outs, and a horizontal version of the Fox Sports 
Net logo (with the "FOX" in the logo rendered in a white box until sometime 
in 2004, later changing to blue) on the far right. For baseball broadcasts, 
a baseball diamond graphic was placed on the far left with the pitch count/speed 
on the right side. In mid-July 2003, Fox Sports Net adopted new graphics 
for its baseball broadcasts, which were later expanded to college football, 
hockey and basketball broadcasts, despite retaining the banner. Early in 
2004, the logo was changed to reveal the FSN pillbox logo and "FOX SPORTSNET" 
in black; in July of that year, the "FOX SPORTSNET" logo was replaced with 
the region branding of the individual FSN channel. Fox Sports Net would 
formally become known as FSN in September 2004. The score banner used for 
FSN telecasts was also used by Fox Sports for its Major League Baseball 
broadcasts on the Fox Broadcasting Company, albeit with a different graphics 
package, from 2001 until the 2004 postseason, with modifications to the 
banner in 2003 to more closely mirror the version used by FSN. In mid-June 
2005, the banner was given a cosmetic upgrade, although it otherwise continued 
to use the graphics introduced in July 2003. The team abbreviations were 
rendered in white or black text in the team's main color (depending on 
color contrast); the scores were also placed in white boxes, accompanied 
by a flash effect and a futuristic computer sound effect when one of the 
teams scored. During baseball telecasts, a flash effect was also used for 
the far-left diamond graphic (itself altered in 2006), to represent the 
bases being circled with an underside "HOME RUN" graphic below the banner 
and the team or player name in electronic lettering. The FSN logo at far 
right was also rendered in a black ovular shape with the region name rendered 
in white. For the 2008 college football season, the scoring banner reverted 
to a box design at the top-left portion of the screen (with no FSN branding, 
other than the logo bug of the local network in the top-right corner), 
featuring a Collegiate-style typeface, with similarities to Fox's current 
graphic styling and the text style used by Big Ten Network. The box changes 
to the colors of the team in possession of the ball, with down information 
in the top portion and a text box with information such as punt hangtime 
extending from the bottom; the box flipped to indicate a score and the 
size of the possessing team's scoring area expanded with the possession 
arrow. Variations of the package were later implemented for professional 
sports events televised by FSN affiliates, beginning with NHL telecasts 
on October 11, 2008, NBA telecasts on October 28 (initially using a smaller 
score box placed at the bottom-right for the 2008–09 season, before switching 
to a horizontal "strip" design for the 2009–10 season), and Major League 
Baseball games on both FSN and Fox in April 2009. New wordmark logos for 
each FSN owned-and-operated affiliate also debuted with the graphics package, 
featuring a bold "FS" abbreviation, followed by the region name (or a team 
name during professional sports events, also colored in the respective 
team's colors); the word "Net" was also dropped from the names of each 
channel. FSN affiliates owned by DirecTV Sports Networks retained the previous 
"pillbox" logo despite also adopting the new graphics; however, FSN New 
York and the Comcast-owned FSN affiliates were relaunched under the respective 
MSG Plus and Comcast SportsNet brands prior to the adoption of the new 
FSN package. In 2010, FSN affiliates also began to increase their use of 
the standard Fox Sports brand through various means, including the use 
of the standard Fox Sports microphone flags, the introduction of localized 
versions of the Fox Sports frontcap before live broadcasts, and the incorporation 
of the Fox Sports logo into a new logo animation for the network's bug. 
In 2011, some FSN networks also followed the lead of the Fox network by 
framing its graphics for the 16:9 aspect ratio (which resulted in the logo 
bug being shifted farther to the right outside of the 4:3 safe area, and 
the corner score box to the far left) and converting its standard definition 
feeds to broadcast HD content in a letterboxed format. At the start of 
the 2011 Major League Baseball season, Fox's regional sports networks and 
national programming began using an on-air presentation identical to that 
used for national Fox Sports telecasts aired on the Fox Broadcasting Company. 
It also phased in a graphics package designed by Troika Design Group – 
however, in-game graphics still used the previous, metallic FSN designs 
until 2012. Fox Sports introduced an updated logo across all of its properties 
on September 1, 2012, with its regional networks dropping the "FS" wordmark 
entirely and adopting individual logos combining the Fox Sports logo and 
the name of each channel's regional name (or team name in bugs shown during 
game broadcasts). From its inception in 1997 until July 31, 2012, Comcast 
maintained an agreement to carry select programming sourced from Fox Sports 
Net on its six Comcast SportsNet regional networks: Comcast SportsNet Bay 
Area, Comcast SportsNet California, Comcast SportsNet Chicago, Comcast 
SportsNet Mid-Atlantic, Comcast SportsNet New England and Comcast SportsNet 
Philadelphia.[38] From September 2012 to September 2013, Fox syndicated 
select college football games produced by the Fox Sports regional networks 
to broadcast television stations in some of these markets. Comcast Sports 
Net Mid-Atlantic resumed airing select Fox Sports-produced ACC games in 
2013; however, Fox Sports programming has not returned to any other CSN 
network. As of 2015[update], most of Fox Sports Networks' other programming 
is presently carried in the Baltimore and Washington, D.C. markets on MASN2 
and in the Boston market on the New England Sports Network (NESN), however 
Fox Sports does not have distributors for its national RSN programming 
in the Chicago, Philadelphia and San Francisco markets. Fox Sports Networks 
also operates Fox College Sports (FCS), a slate of three digital cable 
channels (Fox College Sports Atlantic, Fox College Sports Central, and 
Fox College Sports Pacific) featuring programming divided by region (primarily 
collegiate and high school sports, as well as minor league sports events) 
from each individual FSN network; the FCS networks also carry each affiliate's 
regional sports news programs and non-news-and-event programming (such 
as coaches shows, team magazines, and documentaries). The three networks 
are, more or less, condensed versions of the 22 FSN-affiliated networks 
(including Comcast SportsNet Mid-Atlantic), though the channels also show 
international events that do not fit within the programming inventories 
of FSN or Fox Soccer Plus (and prior to 2013, the latter's now-defunct 
parent Fox Soccer), such as the Commonwealth Games, World University Games 
and the FINA World Swimming Championships. The three FCS channels offer 
FSN feeds from the following channels, including live Big 12 Conference 
football, Pac-12 Conference football and basketball and Atlantic Coast 
Conference basketball games. The channels also rebroadcast shows originally 
produced by and shown on the following listed networks: Fox College Sports 
also broadcasts high school and Independent Women's Football League games, 
and college magazine and coach's shows. Fox College Sports formerly partnered 
with Big Ten Network to provide programming. All of the Fox Sports Networks 
regional affiliates maintain high definition simulcast feeds presented 
in 720p (the default resolution format for 21st Century Fox's broadcast 
and pay television properties). All sports programming broadcast on each 
of the networks (including most team-related analysis and discussion programs, 
and non-event amateur sports programs) is broadcast in a format optimized 
for 16:9 widescreen displays, with graphics now framed within a widescreen 
safe area rather than the 4:3 safe area, intended to be shown in a letterboxed 
format for standard definition viewers. The programming strategy adopted 
by most of the Fox Sports Networks is to acquire the play-by-play broadcast 
rights to major sports teams in their regional market (this does not include 
NFL games, since the league's contracts require all games to be aired on 
broadcast television in each participating team's local markets). In addition 
to local play-by-play coverage, the FSN networks also broadcast and produce 
pre-game shows, post-game shows, and weekly "magazine" shows centered on 
the teams that maintain rights with the individual network. In some markets, 
FSN competes directly with other regional sports networks for the broadcast 
rights to team-specific programming. FSN has competed directly with ESPN 
in acquiring the conference rights to various collegiate sports events. 
One notable agreement is that with the Pac-12 Conference, in which packages 
of football and men's basketball regular season games are broadcast across 
all FSN networks within the regions served by each Pac-12 member university. 
Fox Sports Networks broadcasts the majority of the Pac-12 Conference Men's 
Basketball Tournament, except the tournament final, as well as a few Pac-12 
matches from other conference-sanctioned sports (such as baseball and volleyball). 
Besides play-by-play game rights, FSN provided a common set of programming 
that was available to all its regional sports networks, most notably The 
Dan Patrick Show, The Best Damn Sports Show Period and Final Score (TBDSSP 
and Final Score eventually ceased production, while The Dan Patrick Show 
later moved to the NBC Sports Network). Until August 2012, in some of regions 
served by that RSN, member channels of the competing Comcast SportsNet 
(as mentioned above) carried FSN programming through broadcast agreements 
with Fox Sports. Fox Sports Networks' national sports telecasts were formerly 
marketed under the "FSN" brand; these national programs began to use more 
generic branding with fewer references to FSN or Fox in 2008, as a result 
of a number of Fox Sports Net affiliates being rebranded or realigned with 
other RSN chains (including FSN New England and FSN Bay Area, which both 
became part of Comcast SportsNet; FSN New York's relaunch as MSG Plus, 
the sister to MSG Network; and the eventual relaunch of several FSN affiliates 
acquired by DirecTV Sports Networks under the Root Sports brand), however 
these networks have since reverted to utilizing Fox branding on their FSN-syndicated 
broadcasts. In addition to regional programming, the Fox Sports Networks 
carry some prime time programming distributed to all of the regional networks 
(including past and present series such as The Best Damn Sports Show Period 
and Chris Myers Interviews). FSN has tried to compete with ESPN in regards 
to original programming, most notably with the Fox Sports National Sports 
Report, a daily sports news program designed to compete with ESPN's SportsCenter, 
which debuted on FSN in 1996. Originally a two-hour program, the running 
time of National Sports Report was steadily cut back (eventually dwindling 
to 30 minutes) as its ratings declined and the cost of producing the program 
increased. FSN hired popular former SportsCenter anchor Keith Olbermann 
and used him to promote the show heavily; ratings continued to slide, however, 
leading Fox Sports to cancel the National Sports Report, which aired its 
last edition in February 2002. In some markets, FSN aired the Regional 
Sports Report (whose headline title was usually customized with the name 
of the region in which the particular program was broadcast, such as the 
Midwest Sports Report or Detroit Sports Report), a companion news program 
focusing primarily on regional sports as well as highlights and news on 
other sports teams that debuted in 2000 to complement the National Sports 
Report; many of the regional reports were cancelled in 2002 due to increasing 
costs of producing the individual programs.[39] In addition, FSN airs an 
extensive lineup of poker shows, including Poker Superstars Invitational 
Tournament and MansionPoker.net PokerDome Challenge. Recently, the World 
Poker Tour broadcast its seventh season on FSN as well. FSN distributed 
its first pay-per-view event on November 10, 2006, a boxing match in which 
former heavyweight champion Evander Holyfield defeated Fres Oquendo in 
a unanimous decision at the Alamodome in San Antonio, Texas. The fight 
was also streamed free of charge on the FoxSports.com website outside the 
United States. In February 2008, FSN launched a public service initiative 
called "Americans in Focus", with the sponsorship support of Farmers Insurance. 
This initiative consists of one-minute vignettes profiling persons of non-Caucasian 
ethnicity, with segments airing on the FSN networks in February 2008 and 
2009 during Black History Month, from September 15 to October 15, 2008, 
for Hispanic Heritage Month and in March 2009 for Asian Pacific American 
Heritage Month. The Americans in Focus vignettes and the companion sub-site 
