Fox Sports Midwest is an American regional sports network owned by Fox 
Cable Networks, a unit of the Fox Entertainment Group division of 21st 
Century Fox, and operates as an affiliate of Fox Sports Networks. The channel 
broadcasts regional event coverage of sports teams throughout the Midwestern 
United States, most prominently, professional sports teams based in St. 
Louis, Missouri. Fox Sports Midwest is available on cable providers throughout 
eastern and central Missouri, central and southern Illinois, Southern Indiana, 
Nebraska, and Iowa; it is also available nationwide on satellite via DirecTV 
and Dish Network. The channel originally launched in November 1989 as Prime 
Sports Midwest, serving as an affiliate of the Prime Network. Originally 
seen mainly within Indiana, the channel began expanding its cable provider 
coverage westward in 1994. Following Liberty Media's sale of the Prime 
Network to News Corporation, the channel became a member of the newly formed 
Fox Sports Net (then a joint venture between Liberty Media and News Corporation) 
and rebranded as Fox Sports Midwest on November 1, 1996.[1][2] The channel 
was then rebranded as Fox Sports Net Midwest in 1999, as part of a collective 
brand modification of the FSN networks under the "Fox Sports Net" banner; 
subsequently in 2004, the channel shortened its name to FSN Midwest, through 
the networks' de-emphasis of the brand. In the spring of 2006, Fox Sports 
Midwest obtained the exclusive regional cable television rights to broadcast 
NBA games involving the Indiana Pacers. This resulted in the channel creating 
a spin-off regional sports network channel, Fox Sports Indiana, for the 
primary purpose of airing games from the Pacers and the WNBA's Indiana 
Fever; Fox Sports Indiana launched on November 1, 2006, at the start of 
the team's regular season. In the fall of 2007, Fox Sports Midwest signed 
an exclusive long-term agreement to broadcast games from the Kansas City 
Royals (this followed the team's decision to dissolve the Royals Sports 
Television Network, a regional television syndication service for the team's 
game broadcasts). On January 24, 2008, the network formally announced that 
it would spin-off its subfeed for the Kansas City market into a separate 
channel, Fox Sports Kansas City, to avoid scheduling conflicts with Fox 
Sports Midwest's St. Louis Cardinals game coverage.[3] The main St. Louis-based 
feed reverted to the Fox Sports Midwest moniker that same year. On July 
15, 2010, Fox Sports Midwest signed a new television contract with the 
St. Louis Cardinals, giving the channel exclusive regional broadcast rights 
to the team's games beginning with the 2011 season, ending the team's local 
broadcasts in the St. Louis market on NBC affiliate KSDK (channel 5).[4] 
On July 30, 2015, Fox Sports Midwest and the St. Louis Cardinals agreed 
to a long-term television rights agreement. The new agreement will begin 
in 2018 and will run 15 seasons through the 2032 season.[5] The deal will 
guarantee the St. Louis Cardinals more than $1 billion.[6] Fox Sports Midwest 
holds the exclusive regional cable television rights to Major League Baseball 
games from the St. Louis Cardinals, NHL games from the St. Louis Blues. 
The channel also broadcasts various collegiate events men's basketball 
games from the Missouri Valley Conference, St. Louis Billikens, SIUE Cougars, 
Missouri Tigers; men's and women's basketball, football, volleyball, softball 
and baseball (all of which are also broadcast on Fox Sports Kansas City 
and Fox Sports Indiana) as well as men's and women's basketball games from 
the Kansas State Wildcats (which are also broadcast on Fox Sports Kansas 
City) and the Nebraska Cornhuskers. Fox Sports Midwest Plus is an overflow 
feed of Fox Sports Midwest that was launched in October 2011. Fox Sports 
Kansas City and Fox Sports Indiana also operate their own Fox Sports Plus 
overflow feeds to resolve scheduling conflicts with Fox Sports Midwest-televised 
