Fox Deportes (formerly Fox Sports en Español) is a cable television network 
dedicated to broadcasting sports-related programming 24 hours a day in 
Spanish, aimed at the Hispanic population in the United States. Launched 
in 1996, Fox Deportes, a division of FOX Sports, is the first and longest-running 
Spanish-language sports network in the United States. Now reaching more 
than 22 million cable and satellite households, FOX Deportes has been the 
nation's leading supplier of Spanish-language sports programming for 20 
years. FOX Deportes features a diversified portfolio of properties including 
NFL pre and post-season games, MLB regular-season, All-Star game, Divisional 
Series, National League Championship Series and World Series, UFC®, the 
USGA’s U.S. Open, NASCAR, Premier Boxing Champions, college football and 
premier soccer programming including MLS, Bundesliga, and extensive UEFA 
Champions League matches. The channel first launched as FOX Sports Americas 
in 1996, before transitioning to FOX Sports World en Español in 1997. In 
2002, the network relaunched as FOX Sports en Español before becoming FOX 
Deportes in 2010.[1] As of February 2015, approximately 21,831,000 American 
households (18.8% of households with television) received Fox Deportes.[2] 
The network holds rights to international football including UEFA Champions 
League, the FA Cup, Bundesliga and MLS. The network began to carry simulcasts 
of some Fox College Football games in 2013 with Spanish play-by-play and 
graphics, and starting with the 2013 Thanksgiving Game on Fox, also carries 
select NFL games from the NFL on Fox package featuring Spanish-language 
play-by-play and graphics, including Fox's NFC playoffs package (Fox continues 
to carry all NFL games with Spanish-language play-by-play via the SAP channel, 
regardless of a game also airing on Fox Deportes). The network also carried 
Super Bowl XLVIII, a first for a Spanish-language sports network in the 
United States, and will carry future Super Bowls in years the Fox broadcast 
network holds the rights to the game.[3] The network also serves as the 
Spanish-language home to Major League Baseball, including the MLB All-Star 
Game, American and National League Championship Series (AL odd years, NL 
even years) and World Series. Although the Fox network itself has expanded 
the availability of SAP audio since the start of 2012 to expand the availability 
of audio description of primetime programming and Spanish language audio 
to their NFL package, Fox Sports has chosen to retain Spanish audio of 
their MLB coverage exclusively on Fox Deportes for the time being. On October 
9, 2010 Fox Deportes picked up Spanish language rights to Formula One coverage, 
a contract which ran though 2012.[4] In August 2012, NASCAR and Fox Deportes 
made a deal to have Fox Deportes Broadcast 15 races, 6 of them live, one 
of which is the Daytona 500. Fox Deportes started covering Ultimate Fighting 
Championship on November 12, 2011 showing the prelims for UFC on Fox: Velasquez 
vs. Dos Santos. The channel airs simulcasts of Fox UFC programming. Central 
Fox - This news show, broadcast nightly from Mexico City, covers sporting 
events from around the world. La Ultima Palabra - This analysis program 
focuses on Mexico football and the Mexico national team. The talent also 
discusses the UEFA Champions League, the Premier League, and other leagues 
