Fox Sports Tennessee is an American regional sports network that is owned 
by Fox Cable Networks, a unit of the Fox Entertainment Group division of 
21st Century Fox, and operates as an affiliate of Fox Sports Networks. 
The channel broadcasts regional coverage of professional and collegiate 
sports events in the state of Tennessee, namely the Memphis Grizzlies and 
Nashville Predators. Fox Sports Tennessee is available on cable providers 
throughout Tennessee, northern Alabama, eastern Arkansas and northeastern 
Mississippi, with an estimated reach of 1.8 million subscribers, and nationwide 
on satellite via DirecTV and Dish Network. Fox Sports Tennessee launched 
on October 31, 2008, and was created through the separation of Fox Sports 
South into three regional networks: alongside the main Fox Sports South 
channel (originating from Atlanta, Georgia) and Fox Sports Carolinas, the 
latter of which launch on the same date as Fox Sports Tennessee.[1] In 
July 2013, News Corporation spun off the Fox Sports Networks and most of 
its other U.S. entertainment properties into 21st Century Fox. Fox Sports 
Tennessee holds the regional cable television rights to the Memphis Grizzlies 
of the NBA and the Nashville Predators of the NHL. It also carries simulcasts 
of Major League Baseball games, carrying Cincinnati Reds games televised 
by Fox Sports Ohio,[2] St. Louis Cardinals games televised by Fox Sports 
Midwest[3] and (within Tennessee) Atlanta Braves games televised by Fox 
Sports South, as well as coverage of collegiate sports events from the 
Southeastern Conference. Fox Sports Tennessee HD is a high definition simulcast 
feed of Fox Sports Tennessee, which broadcasts in the 720p format. The 
channel broadcasts most Predators and Grizzlies games (both live telecasts 
and late night replays) as well as several NCAA football and basketball 
games shown nationally on FSN and other programming distributed nationally 
by Fox Sports Networks in high definition. Fox Sports Tennessee HD originally 
transmitted only during game telecasts (with a test pattern being shown 
at other times) until July 2009, when it was converted into a 24-hour simulcast 
