Fox Sports Ohio is an American regional sports network that is owned by 
Fox Cable Networks, a unit of the Fox Entertainment Group division of 21st 
Century Fox, and operates as an affiliate of Fox Sports Networks. The channel 
broadcasts regional coverage of sports events in the state of Ohio, with 
a focus on professional sports teams based in Cleveland and Cincinnati, 
which are broadcast on separate programming feeds. Fox Sports Ohio is available 
on cable providers throughout Ohio, as well as parts of Indiana, Kentucky, 
northwestern Pennsylvania, border communities of West Virginia, and extreme 
southwestern New York; it is also available nationwide on satellite via 
DirecTV and Dish Network. The channel originally launched on February 9, 
1989, with an official launch on September 1 of that year as SportsChannel 
Ohio. It launched as an affiliate of SportsChannel, a slate of regional 
sports networks operated as a joint venture between Cablevision and NBC. 
SportsChannel Ohio initially held the broadcast games from the Cleveland 
Cavaliers and the Cleveland Indians. The channel also aired select Cincinnati 
Reds games produced by SportsChannel Cincinnati, Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
basketball and football games, and Ohio State Buckeyes sporting events 
(with the exception of football and basketball).[2] In 1997, News Corporation 
and Liberty Media purchased a 40% interest in Cablevision's sports properties 
including the SportsChannel America networks (as well as Madison Square 
Garden and its NBA and NHL team tenants, the New York Knicks and New York 
Rangers) in a deal worth $850 million, forming the venture National Sports 
Partners to run the owned-and-operated regional networks.[3][4] As part 
of a gradual rebranding of the SportsChannel networks that began that month, 
SportsChannel Ohio was rebranded as Fox Sports Ohio in January 1998. The 
channel was then rebranded as Fox Sports Net Ohio in 2000, as part of a 
collective brand modification of the FSN networks under the "Fox Sports 
Net" banner; subsequently in 2004, the channel shortened its name to FSN 
Ohio, through the networks' de-emphasis of the brand. In February 2005, 
News Corporation (which spun off most of its entertainment properties into 
21st Century Fox in July 2013) acquired Cablevision's ownership stakes 
in Fox Sports Ohio and Fox Sports Florida, following an asset trade in 
which Fox sold its interest in Madison Square Garden, the Knicks and the 
Rangers, to Cablevision, in exchange for acquiring sole ownership of the 
two networks. The channel reverted to the Fox Sports Ohio moniker in 2008. 
The network operates regional feeds for the Cleveland and Cincinnati markets, 
both branded as Fox Sports Ohio (but with the latter feed disambiguated 
in some electronic program guides and online television listings services 
as "Fox Sports Cincinnati"), which broadcast different events depending 
on the market. This arrangement can cause event conflicts in the Columbus 
market, which is located between Cleveland and Cincinnati. In the event 
of conflicting events between the two regional feeds (typically between 
the Columbus Blue Jackets and Cleveland Cavaliers, the Blue Jackets and 
Cincinnati Reds, and the Reds and Cavaliers), cable providers in Central 
Ohio will carry the other game on an alternate channel. Fox Sports Ohio 
holds the exclusive regional cable television rights to the NBA's Cleveland 
Cavaliers (since 1990), Major League Baseball's Cincinnati Reds (since 
1991), the NHL's Columbus Blue Jackets (since 2000) and the AHL's Lake 
Erie Monsters. The channel also carries a select number of college basketball 
games involving the Xavier Musketeers (since 2005),[5] and the Cincinnati 
Bearcats (since 2008).[6] The channel formerly broadcast Cleveland Indians 
games from the network's launch as SportsChannel Ohio, until FSN Ohio lost 
the rights as a result of the team starting (eventual sister channel) SportsTime 
Ohio in March 2006. Despite this move, Reds games continue to be blacked 
out in Northeast Ohio (the designated market area of the Indians), as well 
as national broadcasts of certain Indians games aired on other cable channels 
(deferring them to STO). Although the two networks came under common ownership 
following Fox's purchase of the latter in 2012, Fox Sports Ohio does not 
share broadcast rights to any sporting events with SportsTime Ohio and 
vice versa (unlike arrangements that exist between Fox Sports South and 
SportSouth, and Fox Sports Florida and Sun Sports), with both networks 
maintaining their own respective team television contracts. On October 
19, 2016, Fox Sports and the Reds announced an extension of their broadcast 
agreement to the end of the 2032 season. The deal includes the Reds taking 
