Fox Sports Southwest is an American regional sports network that is owned 
by Fox Cable Networks, a unit of the Fox Entertainment Group division of 
21st Century Fox, and operates as an affiliate of Fox Sports Networks. 
The channel broadcasts regional coverage of professional, collegiate and 
high school sports events throughout the South Central United States. The 
network is headquartered in the Dallas-Fort Worth suburb of Irving, Texas, 
with master control hubbed at Fox Sports Networks' operations center in 
Houston, which houses master control operations for its regional networks 
in the central United States. Fox Sports Southwest is available on cable 
providers throughout much of Texas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, eastern New Mexico 
and Arkansas; it is also available nationwide on satellite via DirecTV 
and Dish Network. Fox Sports Southwest originally launched on January 4, 
1983 as Home Sports Entertainment (HSE), a unit of Warner-Amex Cable.[1] 
As one of the first regional sports networks in North America, it served 
as the cable television home of professional and collegiate sports teams 
throughout Texas and surrounding states. In 1988, HSE became an affiliate 
of Prime Sports Networks. Like many Prime Sports-affiliated networks, it 
shared channel space with other networks on several cable providers in 
its service area (most often resulting in its programming being restricted 
to nighttime periods) until the early 1990s, when cable systems began upgrading 
their headend infrastructures to increase channel capacity, reassigning 
most of the cable channels that shared time with HSE to other channel slots 
once these upgrades were complete. In 1994, Liberty Media acquired HSE, 
converting it into an owned-and-operated affiliate of Prime Sports and 
changing its name to Prime Sports Southwest. In 1996, News Corporation, 
which formed its own sports division for the Fox network two years earlier, 
acquired a 50% interest in the Prime Network from Liberty Media;[2] the 
network was officially rebranded as Fox Sports Southwest on November 1 
of that year, as part of a relaunch of the Prime Network affiliates as 
the cornerstones of the new Fox Sports Net.[3] The channel was then rebranded 
as Fox Sports Net Southwest in late 1999, as part of a collective brand 
modification of the FSN networks under the "Fox Sports Net" banner. In 
2004, the channel shortened its name to FSN Southwest, through the networks' 
de-emphasis of the brand, before reverting to the Fox Sports Southwest 
moniker in 2008. In July 2013, News Corporation spun off the Fox Sports 
Networks and most of its other U.S. entertainment properties into 21st 
Century Fox. Fox Sports Southwest holds the exclusive regional cable television 
rights to the Dallas Mavericks and San Antonio Spurs of the NBA; the San 
Antonio Stars of the WNBA; the Dallas Stars of the NHL; and the Texas Rangers 
of Major League Baseball. In addition, the channel also provides regional 
coverage of collegiate sporting events from the Big 12 Conference and Conference 
USA, as well as the cable rights to the University Interscholastic League, 
carrying its Class 6A high school state championship games for football, 
boys' and girls' basketball, baseball and softball, and the 2A-5A high 
school football championships. Fox Sports Southwest has the second-largest 
market area and total viewer reach of any network in the FSN group (behind 
Fox Sports South). Its expansive footprint extends from eastern New Mexico 
to Panama City, Florida. The network is divided into five broadcasting 
zones, each representing the five largest television markets in its designated 
broadcast region: The separation of broadcast zones for the channel is 
mostly due to the defined broadcast territories set by the National Basketball 
Association for four of the region's five NBA franchises – the Dallas Mavericks, 
Oklahoma City Thunder, San Antonio Spurs and New Orleans Pelicans (the 
Houston Rockets are carried on Root Sports Southwest). In the event of 
a scheduling conflict between either of the teams (such as Mavericks/Thunder, 
Mavericks/Spurs, Thunder/Spurs, and sometimes Mavericks/Spurs/Thunder), 
the games will be shown on their own subfeeds (Thunder on Fox Sports Oklahoma, 
Spurs or Mavericks on Fox Sports Southwest). In certain circumstances, 
games involving the Dallas Stars (the only National Hockey League team 
based in Texas) air on Fox Sports Southwest beyond the Dallas-Fort Worth 
designated market area, including the Houston market, which no longer receives 
any NBA broadcasts over Fox Sports Southwest. This is also true with the 
San Antonio Stars, the only WNBA team in Texas, many of whose games are 
shown beyond the San Antonio designated market area. Programming seen in 
each broadcasting zone is common in most areas, and includes a mix of programs 
supplied by Fox Sports Networks and some original programming exclusive 
to Fox Sports Southwest (such as High School Spotlight, ″High School Scoreboard 
Live″ and the Dallas Morning News-co-produced SportsdayOnAir). Other than 
Fox Sports New Orleans and Fox Sports Oklahoma, which are both treated 
by Fox Sports Networks as separate channels from Fox Sports Southwest, 
each feed disambiguated in some electronic program guides and online television 
listings services as "Fox Sports Dallas", "Fox Sports Houston" and "Fox 
Sports San Antonio". Fox Sports Southwest HD is a high definition simulcast 
feed of Fox Sports Southwest, which broadcasts in the 720p format. The 
channel does not provide a 24-hour simulcast, however it broadcasts various 
Mavericks, Rangers, Spurs and Stars games, as well as several NCAA football 
and basketball games shown nationally on FSN and other programming distributed 
nationally by Fox Sports Networks in high definition. Fox Sports Southwest 
Plus (also branded as "FOX Sports Southwest +" or FS SOUTHWEST +") is an 
alternate channel feed of Fox Sports Southwest used to broadcast select 
events from teams to which Fox Sports Southwest holds the broadcast rights 
within the designated market in the event that two or more games scheduled 
to be broadcast on the channel are held simultaneously, requiring the overflow 
