Fox Sports Detroit is an American regional sports network that is owned 
by Fox Cable Networks, a unit of the Fox Entertainment Group division of 
21st Century Fox, and operates as an affiliate of Fox Sports Networks. 
It provides coverage of local sports teams in the state of Michigan, primarily 
focusing on those in the Metro Detroit area. The network exclusively broadcasts 
games involving the Detroit Tigers, Detroit Pistons and Detroit Red Wings, 
and state college and high school sports.[1] Fox Sports Detroit is available 
on cable television throughout Michigan, as well as in northeastern Indiana, 
northwest Ohio and some portions of northeastern Wisconsin and nationwide 
on satellite via DirecTV and Dish Network. The network's production facilities 
and offices are based in Southfield, Michigan,[2] with master control operations 
based at the headquarters of Fox Sports Networks in Houston, Texas. The 
network also maintains dedicated remote sets in the concourses of Comerica 
Park, The Palace of Auburn Hills and Joe Louis Arena. Fox Sports Detroit 
traces its origins to 1996, when News Corporation purchased 50% of the 
Prime Network, a group of regional sports networks owned by Liberty Media, 
and immediately rebranded them under the "Fox Sports Net" banner.[3] At 
the time of the purchase, Post-Newsweek Stations (owners of Detroit NBC 
affiliate WDIV-TV, channel 4) owned the Detroit-based Pro-Am Sports System 
(PASS Sports), which served the local affiliate of the Prime Network. News 
Corporation announced plans to launch a Fox Sports Net affiliate in Michigan 
by 1998, and made a surprise bid for, and won, the local cable television 
rights to NBA games involving the Detroit Pistons. When PASS Sports' respective 
National Hockey League and Major League Baseball broadcast rights to the 
Detroit Red Wings and Detroit Tigers franchises came up for renewal, Fox 
Sports Net made a bid for the contracts and won them both. Fox Sports decided 
to push the launch date of the new channel forward in time for the beginning 
of the 1997–98 NHL season and 1998 MLB season; Fox Sports Detroit began 
broadcasting on September 17, 1997. Post-Newsweek, meanwhile, concluded 
that its coverage area was not large enough to support two RSNs and sold 
the remainder of its Tigers and Pistons contracts, and the contract of 
sportscaster John Keating, to Fox Sports Detroit. Post-Newsweek shut down 
PASS Sports on October 31, 1997, leaving Fox Sports Detroit as the sole 
regional sports network in Michigan.[4] From its launch until January 16, 
2008, Fox Sports Detroit broadcast its studio shows out of FSN Northwest's 
facilities in Bellevue, Washington.[5] On October 1, 2009, the network 
unveiled a new all-digital high definition-capable studio in its Southfield 
headquarters dubbed the "Call Sam Studio", named after its sponsor, the 
Sam Bernstein Law Firm. It serves as the production base of the pre-game/post-game 
shows Tigers Live, Pistons Live and Red Wings Live, as well the magazine 
shows of all three teams and all of the channel's other local programming. 
It was expected that 80% of the shows produced from the studio would be 
produced and broadcast in HD. The first program to originate from the new 
studio was Wingspan, a special previewing the 2009-10 Red Wings season, 
on October 1.[2] The channel shared professional team coverage rights with 
some Detroit area broadcast television stations until the spring of 2008. 
In March 2008, the channel signed new long-term contracts with the Pistons, 
Red Wings and Tigers to broadcast more games than in previous years, becoming 
the exclusive local home of all three teams for the first time until at 
least 2018.[1] This leaves only the NFL's Detroit Lions as the only local 
professional sports team in Detroit to have all of its games on broadcast 
television. On May 21, 2015, the Detroit Lions announced a multi-year broadcast 
partnership with Fox Sports Detroit and WJBK (Fox 2). Fox Sports Detroit 
produces the preseason game broadcasts with Fox 2 producing the pre-game 
and post-game segments. The games air live on Fox 2 and the rest of the 
Detroit Lions Television Network, with re-airings on Fox Sports Detroit. 
[6] Fox Sports Detroit also airs Lions Live after regular season games, 
and Monday head coach press conferences. Fox Sports Detroit HD is a 720p 
high definition simulcast feed of Fox Sports Detroit. It telecasts all 
Detroit Pistons, Detroit Red Wings and Detroit Tigers games in HD, their 
respective pre-game and post-game shows and team magazine shows, as well 
as all college and high school games and programs. Wingspan became the 
first locally produced pre-recorded program to be broadcast in HD when 
it began in 2009.[2] In 2010, Central Collegiate Hockey Association (CCHA) 
and MHSAA games began airing in HD. Nationally televised FSN games and 
other programs are also broadcast in HD. Like the standard-definition feed, 
it is available nationwide via DirecTV and Dish Network, and on most cable 
providers in Michigan and some in Ohio, Indiana and Wisconsin. Fox Sports 
Detroit Plus is a game-time only alternate feed of Fox Sports Detroit.[11] 
It was launched in 2007 to solve scheduling conflicts, such as those of 
the Detroit Tigers, Pistons and Red Wings, as well as CCHA games, MHSAA 
finals for football and basketball, and The Mid-American Conference Basketball 
Tournament (via Fox Sports Ohio). It is frequently used for live college 
football, college basketball, college baseball and tennis telecasts and 
other events distributed nationally by FSN, to avoid conflicts with local 
coverage. Fox Sports Detroit Plus has been used for special alternate feeds 
of local games, such as the annual "¡Fiesta Tigres!" game which celebrates 
Latin American players, in which alternate announcers conducted Spanish 
language play-by-play; a "Position-by-position" Tigers game, with the camera 
isolating on a different defensive player every inning featuring John Keating 
on play-by-play; as well as a "Social networking" Tigers telecast in which 
the channel's staff answered viewer questions from Facebook, Twitter, and 
their own website. Fox Sports Detroit Plus also has an HD feed which is 
available on DirecTV, Dish Network, AT&T U-verse, Comcast, WOW! and some 
smaller regional cable systems.[11] Fox Sports Detroit On Demand is the 
video on demand service of Fox Sports Detroit, which is currently available 
on Comcast. Launched in October 2008, its offerings include the channel's 
magazine and coach's shows, which are presented commercial-free. On August 
7, 2009, Fox Sports Detroit On Demand began carrying full-length presentations 
