Frank White, Jr. (born September 4, 1950) is an American former Major League 
Baseball (MLB) player, and coach for the Kansas City Royals and their AA 
affiliate, the Wichita Wranglers. He is one of only three MLB players, 
along with Ron Washington and U L Washington, who were products of the 
Royals Academy.[1] He is also a former color commentator for Royals telecasts. 
He currently serves as the first base coach of the Kansas City T-Bones 
of the American Association of Independent Professional Baseball. He was 
elected to the Jackson County Legislature on November 4, 2014. White was 
born in Greenville, Mississippi. After going to college at Longview Community 
in Lee's Summit, Missouri, he rose through the minors to reach the big 
leagues. Though initially disliked by fans because he displaced the popular 
Cookie Rojas at second base, he went on to set a major-league record jointly 
with teammate George Brett, by appearing in 1,914 games together. The record 
stood until 1995, when it was broken by the Detroit Tigers' Alan Trammell 
and Lou Whitaker. In 1980, White was the Most Valuable Player of the American 
League Championship Series against the New York Yankees, leading the Royals 
to their first World Series appearance. A smooth fielder, White was a five-time 
All-Star. He won the Gold Glove Award eight times, including six consecutive 
seasons from 1977 to 1982. In 1977 he played 62 consecutive errorless games. 
Although in his early years he was a singles hitter who contributed little 
to the Royals' run column, White improved markedly as an offensive player 
during his career, hitting 22 home runs two years in a row, in 1985 and 
1986. Since the 1985 World Series was played without the designated hitter, 
White hit cleanup during that series, in place of Hal McRae. Until White, 
the only other second baseman to hit cleanup in a World Series was Jackie 
Robinson.[2] In the 1986 Major League Baseball All-Star Game, his solo 
home run in the seventh off Mike Scott was the deciding run in an 3-2 American 
League victory. White retired as a player in 1990 after 18 major-league 
seasons. On Sunday July 2, 1995, while White was the First Base Coach with 
the Boston Red Sox, the Royals retired White's number 20, and the same 
year he was inducted into the Royals' Hall of Fame. A bronze statue of 
White was dedicated outside of Kauffman Stadium in 2004, joining Royals 
founders Ewing & Muriel Kauffman, George Brett, and as of 2009, Dick Howser. 
After the end of White's playing career, he was a First Base Coach with 
both the Boston Red Sox from 1994–1996 Wearing #20 & then with the Kansas 
City Royals from 1997–2001 Wearing his #20. He then managed the Wichita 
Wranglers for three years before moving in Kansas City's front office. 
Frank White was said to be one of Dayton Moore's favorites to fill the 
Kansas City Royals vacant manager position starting in 2008 that ultimately 
went to Trey Hillman. In February 2008 it was announced that White was 
joining FSN Kansas City to serve as a part-time color commentator on Royals 
telecasts (filling in for Paul Splittorff on select games), as well as 
an analyst on the channel's Royals Live postgame show. White resigned his 
position in the front office in January 2011.[3] Fox Sports Kansas City 
announced in early December 2011 that White's broadcasting contract wouldn’t 
be renewed as the Royals' television color commentator.[4] He is currently 
on the coaching staff of the Kansas City T-Bones in the American Association 
of Independent Professional Baseball. He ran for the Jackson County Legislature[5] 
