Sir Francis Ley, 1st Baronet (3 January 1846 – 27 January 1916) was an 
English industrialist. He founded Ley's Malleable Castings Vulcan Ironworks 
in Derby.[2] He (re-)introduced baseball into the United Kingdom with the 
Derby County Baseball Club[3] and owned Ley's Baseball Ground from 1890 
to 1924, which was home to Derby County Football Club. In 1905, Ley was 
created a Baronet, of Epperstone Manor[4] and, in the same year, served 
as High Sheriff of Nottinghamshire.[5] Francis Ley was born on 3 January 
1846 in Winshill which at the time was in south-west Derbyshire (it's now 
in Staffordshire). He was the only son of George Phillips Ley[6] and Sarah 
(born Potts).[1] He started work at Andrew Handyside & Co. as a draughtsman 
and learnt about engineering. At the age of 28 he established a malleable 
iron castings foundry on Osmaston Road, Derby in 1874.[2] The business 
became the Ley's Malleable Castings Company Ltd.[7] The Vulcan Iron Works 
at Osmaston Road occupied an 11-acre site by the Birmingham and Derby Junction 
Railway.[8] In the London Gazette of 14 April 1876 Ley was granted a patent 
for "improvements in apparatus for locking and fastening nuts on fish plate 
and other bolts".[9] In 1878 he was sued for patent infringement by an 
American drive chain belt company; the case was settled and Ley's company 
was awarded sole manufacturing rights. By the 1880s Ley was demolishing 
his old works and rebuilding on a grander scale. The new factory was to 
include expensive sporting facilities. Ley was never sporting himself but 
he was an enthusiast for sport and sat on the board of Derbyshire County 
Cricket Club.[1] The Vulcan iron foundry was closed and demolished in 1986.[8] 
Ley visited the United States of America in 1889, and was impressed by 
the game of baseball. Some people had been intrigued by Albert Spalding's 
world tour with his baseball team when it played in England in 1889.[11] 
Ley decided that, as a way of ensuring a healthier and more productive 
workforce, an investment should be made in promoting recreation for his 
workers. During his journey to the States, Ley had seen the way in which 
baseball fields had been laid out by companies and factories for the use 
by their workers and decided to follow suit on his return to Derby. Consequently, 
Ley had what was to be called "Ley's Baseball Ground" built; a 12-acre 
(49,000 m2) park for the use of workers with cricket and baseball facilities. 
The National Baseball League of Great Britain and Ireland was started in 
1890 and a letter was sent to Spalding in America requesting help in establishing 
a league. The British requested eight to ten players to coach and convert 
the existing players whose primary game was usually soccer. Spalding, who 
also sold sporting goods, was enthusiastic and sent a skilled manager, 
Jim Hart and players: William J. Barr, Charles Bartlett, J.E.Prior and 
Leech Maskrey.[11] The intention had been to have eight teams but initially 
there were just four Aston Villa, Preston North End, Stoke and Derby. The 
first three used Hart to decide the line-up of their teams, but Ley, who 
had more experience of baseball, made his own decisions.[11] The club ran 
away with the first championship; however, pressure from other teams in 
the league over the number of American professionals (three) on the team 
led to Derby County withdrawing when they would have been the first league 
champions.[10] Derby did win the British title three times in the 1890s. 
Another problem was the start of Derby County Football Club in 1895. The 
baseball club itself lasted until 1898. The Baseball Ground continued to 
be used under that name as the home of Derby County F.C. until 1997. Ley's 
grounds were used for a variety of sports. A picture below shows Ley's 
1912 Cricket team. Remarkably it contains three players who were capped 
for England at football. These were S. Bloomer on the right of the back 
row; H. Barnes on the left but one of the middle row and J. Bagshaw who 
is first on the front row. Ley first married Georgina Townsend and they 
had a son and two daughters. His first son, Henry Gordon Ley (1874-1944) 
is pictured left with his father. Following his first wife's death he married 
Alison Catherine Jobson in 1888. They had two sons who both joined the 
Armed Forces. Christopher Francis Aden Ley was the elder, born in 1893. 
He joined the South Nottinghamshire Hussars and became a Captain in the 
Royal Flying Corps. He died in March 1918[12] having survived the 1915 
Gallipoli campaign and outlived his younger brother. Maurice Aden Ley was 
two years younger and a Lieutenant; he died in November 1914.[13][14] Ley 
bought Epperstone Manor in Nottinghamshire and he was created a Baronet, 
of Epperstone Manor in 1905.[4] In the same year he was appointed High 
Sheriff of Nottinghamshire.[5] When Ley died he owned the company and Derby 
County F.C.'s sports ground. He also owned 6,500 aces of farmland and was 
the Lord of the Manor at Epperstone, Lazonby, Staffield, Glassonby around 
Kirkoswald in Cumbria.[6] There is an industrial estate named after him 
in Derby and his Manor and grounds have been converted to residential dwellings. 
