Wallace Frank Messer (August 8, 1925 – November 13, 2001) was an American 
sportscaster that was best known for his 18 seasons announcing New York 
Yankees baseball games, and as the recognizable emcee voice of various 
Yankee Stadium festivities during a three decade span. An Asheville, North 
Carolina native, Messer was a member of the Marines during World War II 
in the South Pacific. After the war, he worked as a broadcaster in minor 
league baseball in the 1950s. He got his major-league break when he joined 
the Baltimore Orioles and worked alongside their noted longtime voice, 
Chuck Thompson. In 1966, the year Bill O'Donnell also joined the broadcast 
crew, the O’s won their first world championship. Messer also called Baltimore 
Colts football during the 1960s. Messer’s next major-league break came 
after the 1967 season, when Joe Garagiola left the Yankees broadcast crew 
to concentrate on the network jobs he also had at NBC Sports and NBC News. 
Messer took Garagiola’s place for 1968, working with ex-Yankees Jerry Coleman 
and Phil Rizzuto. The Yankees’ longtime public-relations director Bob Fishel 
had urged team management to approve a traditional play-by-play sportscaster, 
which the Yanks had not had since the firing of Red Barber after the 1966 
season. Messer was eventually given the gig of emceeing the Old-Timer’s 
Day ceremonies by 1970 – an event in which he participated until the year 
before his death – and special events, beginning with the retirement of 
Mickey Mantle’s Number 7 jersey in June 1969. Messer’s steadiness and dry 
wit blended well with Rizzuto’s enthusiasm. For many years, New York Yankees 
yearbooks would refer to Messer as "One of the real pros in the business." 
The Yankee broadcast crew gained its best known incarnation in 1971 when 
Messer and Rizzuto were joined by former St. Louis Cardinals infielder 
Bill White, a replacement for Bob Gamere (who’d been brought in when Coleman 
moved to the West Coast after the 1969 season). Messer, White and Rizzuto 
called Yankee games together until the end of the 1985 season. Messer was 
acclaimed by critics and fans both for his straight-shooting play calling 
on radio and TV, and by the club for his effectiveness promoting team events. 
"We call Frank 'Old Reliable' up here, because we know when we're in trouble, 
he is here," Rizzuto said on the final 1973 Yankee broadcast before the 
renovation of the original Yankee Stadium. While Messer was relegated to 
radio for his final year, the trio still provided the second-longest three-man 
combination in New York sports history, behind the New York Mets crew of 
Lindsey Nelson, Ralph Kiner and Bob Murphy. During that stretch, the trio 
was joined by Dom Valentino on radio for the 1975 season, Fran Healy on 
radio (and later, cable TV too) during the late 1970s and early 1980s, 
John Gordon on radio from 1982 to 1985, Bobby Murcer on WPIX in 1983 and 
1984, and by the ultimate Voice of the Yankees, Mel Allen, on cable in 
the 1970s and 1980s. WPIX and its usual Rizzuto-Messer-White broadcast 
trifecta carried the ALCS in 1976, 1977, 1978, 1980 and 1981, providing 
New York viewers a local alternative to the nationally-broadcast telecasts. 
One of his signature phrases at the end of his last inning before switching 
booths from radio to TV (or vice versa) was "(Announcer) will carry you 
along the rest of the way. It’s been a pleasure." Another was his radio 
call of a home run from 1981 onward, when the Yankees’ radio home was WABC: 
"A-B-C you later!" Besides Mickey Mantle Day, Messer’s great Yankee moments 
included his 1978 call of Bucky Dent’s dramatic three-run homer in the 
American League East Championship Game against the host Boston Red Sox; 
and his 1980 call of Reggie Jackson’s 400th home run ("There she goes! 
Might be upper deck!"), both on WINS radio. Messer's most famous call may 
have been his description on WABC of the final out of Dave Righetti’s no-hitter 
at Yankee Stadium against the Red Sox, on July 4, 1983: As Righetti got 
Wade Boggs to swing at strike three, Messer intoned: According to the book 
Sports on New York Radio by Westwood One media executive and former sportscaster 
David J. Halberstam, the call should have been made by partner White, who 
was to call that half-inning as part of the in-game rotation of announcers 
between radio and SportsChannel TV (now Fox Sports Net New York). While 
White did the whole game bouncing between WABC and SportsChannel, Messer 
and Rizzuto rotated between TV, radio and the Fan Appreciation Day giveaways 
on the field between innings. But according to Messer, after White saw 
him return to the WABC radio booth (he helped White call the last half 
of the eighth inning), White insisted that Messer, the senior of the two, 
should call the ninth.[1] "It was a class act", Messer said of White's 
gesture. Another Messer moment came less than three weeks later, on July 
24, 1983. The Kansas City Royals were playing the Yankees at Yankee Stadium. 
In the top of the ninth inning, George Brett came to bat against Rich (Goose) 
Gossage, his old rival. Brett hit a two-run homer, putting the Royals ahead 
5-4. After Brett rounded the bases, Yankees manager Billy Martin (at the 
suggestion of his protégé, third baseman Graig Nettles) came out of the 
dugout and urged home-plate umpire Tim McClelland to measure the amount 
of pine tar on Brett's bat, citing an obscure rule that stated the pine 
tar on a bat could extend no further than 18 inches. Brett's pine tar extended 
about 24 inches. "I've never seen this," said sportscaster and ex-Yankee 
Bobby Murcer on WPIX as he watched McClelland measure the bat across the 
plate. "I never have either," said Messer. A few moments later, McClelland 
signalled Brett out. The normally mild-mannered Brett charged out of the 
dugout, enraged, and was immediately ejected. An incredulous Messer: The 
Royals protested the game, and their protest was upheld by American League 
President (and former Yankees chief executive) Lee MacPhail, who ruled 
that the bat was not "altered to improve the distance factor", and that 
the rules only provided for removal of the bat from the game, and not calling 
the batter out. The game was replayed, starting after Brett's homer. Martin 
had one last trick up his sleeve, appealing the play before, saying the 
umpires had no way of knowing Brett had touched all the bases. The umpires 
produced affidavits saying he had. The game had virtually no effect on 
1983's pennant race, but was in many ways the closing chapter on a heated 
rivalry. After the Yankees let him go following the 1985 season (with Bobby 
Murcer becoming a fixture as play-by-play man and analyst for TV broadcasts), 
Messer called games for the Chicago White Sox and the CBS Radio network. 
Messer continued to emcee Old-Timer’s Day ceremonies for the Yankees through 
1997. One of his most poignant jobs was introducing Mickey Mantle at the 
1994 event, just after Mantle had completed treatment for alcoholism. Even 
after John Sterling and Michael Kay took over the introduction of players 
in the late 1990s, Messer was still the event "host" through 2000, greeting 
the Stadium fans before turning over the rest of the show to his successors. 
