Frank C. Lane (February 1, 1896 – March 19, 1981) was an American executive 
in professional baseball, most notably serving as a general manager in 
Major League Baseball for the Chicago White Sox, St. Louis Cardinals, Cleveland 
Indians, Kansas City Athletics and Milwaukee Brewers. Born in Cincinnati, 
Lane's first involvement with professional sports came in American football, 
where he played guard for a number of "Ohio League" teams prior to the 
creation of the National Football League. After his attempt at playing 
professional baseball fell short, Lane shifted to officiating, serving 
as a referee in both football and basketball. In 1933 he was named as traveling 
secretary for the Cincinnati Reds, while continuing to spend his offseasons 
as an official. After later spending one season as general manager of the 
team's Durham, North Carolina minor league club, Lane was elevated to assistant 
general manager for the Reds under Warren Giles on November 17, 1936. After 
the U.S. entered World War II, Lane joined the Navy and spent the next 
four years in the service before returning in 1946 as general manager of 
the Kansas City Blues, a top farm club of the New York Yankees. One year 
in that position led to a two-year stretch as president of the minor league 
American Association. Lane then resigned that post in 1948 to become general 
manager of the White Sox. Over the next seven years, he would shape the 
team into a contender after nearly two decades of mediocrity. In seven 
years with the White Sox, he made 241 trades.[1] After resigning in September 
1955, Lane quickly found work again in St. Louis.[citation needed] In May 
1956, he traded Bill Virdon, who won the National League Rookie of the 
Year Award the previous season, for Bobby Del Greco and Dick Littlefield.[2] 
Lane later referred to the trade as "the worst trade [he] ever made".[3] 
As General Manager of the St. Louis Cardinals, he tried to trade popular 
superstar hitter Stan Musial to the Philadelphia Phillies for star pitcher 
Robin Roberts. When news of the proposed transaction was leaked to the 
radio, Cardinals' owner August Busch stopped the deal.[4] Lane moved on 
to Cleveland in November 1957. While in Cleveland, Lane gained infamy by 
trading popular star slugger Rocky Colavito to the Detroit Tigers for excellent 
hitter Harvey Kuenn, resulting in the so-called "Curse of Colavito." He 
left Cleveland in January 1961 for an executive position with the Kansas 
City Athletics, but the combination of Lane and volatile owner Charlie 
Finley led to an early end to his employment just eight months later. The 
lingering feud between the two over compensation would result in a lawsuit 
that took over three years to settle. Due to his uncertain contract status 
Lane was forced out of baseball during this period, but found employment 
on May 7, 1962 as general manager of the National Basketball Association's 
Chicago Zephyrs. On January 8, 1965, Lane settled his lawsuit with Finley, 
accepting $113,000 plus the freedom to take another baseball front-office 
position. Early reports of his being part of an ownership group to buy 
the Boston Red Sox, as well as potentially serving as president of the 
Texas League, proved to be unfounded. Instead, the Baltimore Orioles hired 
him as a special assistant to general manager Lee MacPhail on March 7, 
serving primarily as a scout, a post he would hold for nearly six years. 
Shortly before his 75th birthday, Lane was hired as general manager for 
the Milwaukee Brewers. Following that stint, he ended his career as a scout 
for both the California Angels and Texas Rangers. Lane would gain fame 
(and sometimes infamy) for his many transactions,[5] earning nicknames 
such as "Trader Frank", "Frantic Frank", "Trader Lane", and "The Wheeler 
Dealer" for the more than 400 trades he made in his career, including 241 
with the White Sox alone. Lane traded star players, such as Norm Cash, 
Rocky Colavito, and Roger Maris, as well as future Hall of Famers Enos 
Slaughter, Red Schoendienst, and Early Wynn. Yet players were not the only 
people involved in Lane's transactions – in 1960, during his tenure with 
the Indians, he dealt manager Joe Gordon in exchange for Detroit Tigers 
skipper Jimmy Dykes. He died in a Dallas, Texas nursing home at 84 years 
of age. In Bobby Bragan's book You Can't Hit the Ball With the Bat On Your 
Shoulder, Bragan wrote that he was asked by Commissioner Bowie Kuhn's office 
to represent them at the funeral. Bragan would be the lone baseball official 
