Ulysses Franklin "Frank" Grant (August 1, 1865 - May 27, 1937), nicknamed 
"The Black Dunlap", was an African-American baseball player in the 19th 
century. Early in his career, he was a star player in the International 
League, shortly before Jim Crow restrictions were imposed that banned African-American 
players from organized baseball. He became a pioneer in the early Negro 
leagues, starring for several of the top African-American teams of the 
late 19th and early 20th centuries. He is widely considered to have been 
the greatest African-American player of the 19th century. In 2006, Grant 
was elected to the National Baseball Hall of Fame. He is the earliest Negro 
league player to have received that honor. Grant was born in Pittsfield, 
Massachusetts. He played semipro baseball in Pittsfield and in Plattsburgh, 
New York.[3] In 1886, Grant played for an Eastern League team based in 
Meriden, Connecticut. He signed with the Buffalo team in the International 
League, one level below the major leagues, later that season.[3] Though 
most sources describe the official integration of organized baseball for 
several more decades, Grant was one of five black players who played in 
baseball's otherwise white minor leagues. When he debuted with the team, 
a Buffalo newspaper reporter referred to Grant as "a Spaniard".[4] He hit 
.344 with Buffalo. In 1887, the 22-year-old paced the IL with 11 home runs 
and 49 extra-base hits and led Buffalo with 40 stolen bases. In 1887, John 
Chapman, the Bisons' veteran manager, valued Grant's services at $5,000—quite 
a compliment when Chicago had recently sold superstar Mike Kelly to Boston 
for $10,000. During the 1887 season, he hit for the cycle in one game and 
stole home twice in another. Despite significant racial turmoil that year, 
Buffalo forced the IL to rescind a proposed color line to keep Grant in 
town. In the late 19th century, few black hitters matched up with Grant. 
A middle infielder, mostly a second baseman, Grant had fielding skills 
widely praised as the best in the league. He had substantial power at the 
plate, often hitting home runs and very often getting extra base hits. 
Grant hit for extra bases every four times he got a hit. He achieved this 
although he was quite small (5'7", 155 pounds). Author Jerry Malloy described 
Grant as "the greatest Negro baseball player of the 19th century."[5] Grant 
is also notable for becoming the first black player to play on the same 
team in organized baseball for three consecutive seasons. He was known 
as "The Black Dunlap", a comparison drawn to the defensive skills of 19th-century 
white second baseman Fred Dunlap.[6] By 1888, anti-black sentiment was 
all around the league, and it seemed only Buffalo argued against segregation 
(possibly because of Grant). When blacks were banned from organized, white-controlled 
baseball after 1887, Grant went on to become a hugely successful Negro 
leaguer for the Cuban X Giants, Big Gorhams and Philadelphia Giants into 
the 20th century. Grant ended his career in 1903, ending the early era 
of the Negro Leagues. After his baseball career, Grant's name rarely appeared 
in the press. He lived a quiet life as a waiter for a catering company.[5] 
He died at age 71 in New York City. His grave in East Ridgelawn Cemetery, 
