Frank C. Leland (1869 – November 14, 1914) was an African-American baseball 
player, field manager and club owner in the Negro Leagues. Leland was born 
in Memphis, Tennessee. He attended Fisk University in Nashville, Tennessee 
from 1879 to 1886.[1] He began his professional career with the Washington 
Capital Cities in the 1887 National League of Colored Baseball Clubs, a 
team which played no league games before the experiment collapsed. He "moved 
to Chicago and was instrumental in organizing and developing five successful 
baseball teams in that city" (Riley, 475). In 1888, he organized the black 
amateur Union Base Ball Club, with sponsorship from some of Chicago's black 
businessmen, Henry Elby, Albert Donegan, and W.S. Peters.[1] Leland obtained 
a lease from the city government to play at South Side Park, a 5,000-seat 
facility. In 1898 his team went pro and became the Chicago Unions. He played 
outfield with the Unions in the 1880s. Leland also worked as the umpire 
for the club in the first few years. He also worked as the traveling manager 
of the Chicago Unions. [1] In 1901 he merged the Unions and the Columbia 
Giants to form the Chicago Union Giants. This became the top Negro League 
team in the Midwest. The team changed its name to the Leland Giants in 
1905 after his partnership split with W.S. Peters;[2] in 1907 Rube Foster 
replaced Leland as manager and Pete Hill and Foster strengthened the club 
in the field. Leland remained as President of the board of directors for 
the Leland Giants until he resigned in September 1909. While some researchers 
believe there was a rift between Foster and Leland, newspapers of the day 
reported that Frank Leland, who used to own the club on his own, sold away 
rights to a stock company in 1909 and "had little say in the management 
of the team." [2] While Rube Foster continued to run the Leland Giants 
Baseball Club, Leland started a new corporation in October 1909 called 
"Leland's Chicago Giants Baseball Club" or, in short "Chicago Giants" opening 
his offices at 2551 State Street in Chicago. He signed Bill Lindsay as 
his first pitcher. The confusion over the Leland name amongst the teams 
changed as Rube Foster changed the Leland Giants name to the Chicago American 
Giants, and Leland's team became the Chicago Giants. Frank C. Leland produced 
and worked with well-known pre-Negro League baseball players: Bill LIndsay, 
Walter Ball, Harry Buckner, William Horn, George Hopkins, Harry Hyde, William 
Monroe, George Wright, Harry Moore, Pete Burns, Lewis Reynolds, William 
Smith, Dangerfield Talbert, Bert Jones, Nathan Harris, Rube Foster, and 
Andrew Campbell.[1] In his life outside of baseball, Frank Leland served 
as a clerk in the Criminal Court, a clerk in the Circuit Court, and a clerk 
in the Board of Review. At one point, he served as a Deputy Sheriff. And 
he also held a position as member of the Board of County Commissioners 
in Cook County in Chicago, Illinois.[1][3] He was married to Finnie, and 
his father's name was Charles, (noted as "Chas.") according to his death 
certificate.[3] Also on his death certificate, the undertaker appears to 
have marked Leland's death as Aortic Insufficiency due to exhaustion. He 
