Frank Alvin Gotch (April 27, 1877[2] – December 16, 1917) was the first 
American professional wrestler to win the world heavyweight free-style 
championship, and credited for popularizing professional wrestling in the 
United States. He competed back when the contests were largely legit (see 
catch wrestling), and his reign as World Heavyweight Champion (from 1908 
to 1913) is one of the ten longest in the history of wrestling. He became 
one of the most popular athletes in America from the 1900s to the 1910s. 
Pro Wrestling Illustrated described Gotch as "arguably the best North American 
wrestler of the 20th century".[3] The son of Frederick Rudolph and Amelia 
Gotch, and of German ancestry, he was born and raised on a small farm three 
miles south of Humboldt, Iowa. He took up wrestling in his teens, earning 
a reputation by beating locals. He adopted the toe hold as his signature 
finishing move. Gotch wrestled his first match against Marshall Green in 
Humboldt on April 2, 1899, and won. But his first important match was in 
Lu Verne, Iowa, on June 16, 1899, against a man claiming to be a furniture 
dealer from a neighboring town. Gotch held his own for nearly two hours, 
but lost the hard-fought contest. Only later when he received the impressed 
man's visiting card did he learn that his opponent had actually been reigning 
American Heavyweight Champion Dan McLeod.[4] On December 18, 1899, Gotch 
challenged another former American Champion, "Farmer" Martin Burns, losing 
in 11 minutes, but impressing Burns as well, who offered to train Gotch. 
Under the guidance of Burns, Gotch won a series of matches in Iowa and 
later Yukon. While in the Yukon, Gotch wrestled under the name Frank Kennedy 
and won the title of "Champion of the Klondike". During his time in the 
Yukon, Gotch tried his hand at boxing, but failed miserably against the 
heavyweight Frank "Paddy" Slavin.[5] Gotch returned to Iowa and instantly 
challenged the reigning American Heavyweight Champion, Tom Jenkins. Gotch 
lost their first match in 1903, before defeating Jenkins in a rematch on 
January 27, 1904, to take the championship. After trading the title with 
Jenkins and Fred Beel, Gotch set his sights on the World Heavyweight Championship, 
then held by the undefeated Estonian Georg Hackenschmidt. The opponent, 
called the "Russian Lion", had gained undisputed title recognition by defeating 
Jenkins in New York in 1905. Upon defeating Jenkins, however, Hackenschmidt 
ignored Gotch's challenge and sailed home to England. Gotch and Hackenschmidt 
finally met on April 3, 1908, at the Dexter Park Pavilion in Chicago. Showing 
his contempt for Gotch and for American wrestling in general, Hackenschmidt 
was not in the best condition. Gotch was. He used his speed, defense and 
rough tactics to wear the champion down and then assume the attack. The 
wrestlers stood on their feet for two full hours before Gotch was able 
to get behind Hackenschmidt and take him down. While on their feet, Gotch 
made sure to lean on Hackenschmidt to wear him down. He bullied him around 
the ring, and his thumbing and butting left Hackenschmidt covered in blood. 
Hackenschmidt complained to the referee of Gotch's foul tactics and asked 
that Gotch be forced to take a hot shower to rid his body of an abundance 
of oil, but the referee ignored the complaints and told Hackenschmidt he 
should have noticed the oil before the match began. The match continued. 
At the two-hour mark, Hackenschmidt was forced against the ropes. Gotch 
tore him off the ropes, threw Hackenschmidt down and rode him hard for 
three minutes, working for his dreaded toe hold. Hackenschmidt had trained 
to avoid this hold, which he did, but the effort took his last remaining 
strength. Hackenschmidt quit the fall. "I surrender the championship of 
the world to Mr. Gotch," he said, and stood up and shook Gotch's hand. 
The wrestlers then retired to their dressing rooms before coming out for 
the second fall, but Hackenschmidt refused to return to the ring, telling 
the referee to declare Gotch the winner, thereby relinquishing his title 
to the American.[6] "He is the king of the class, the greatest man by far 
I ever met," Hackenschmidt said. "After going nearly two hours with him, 
my muscles became stale. My feet also gave out. I had trained constantly 
against the toe hold and had strained the muscles of my legs. When I found 
myself weakening, I knew there was no use continuing and that I had no 
chance to win. That was the reason I conceded the championship to him. 
I have no desire to wrestle him again. A return match would not win back 
my title." Hackenschmidt later reversed his opinion of Gotch and Americans 
in general, claiming to have been fouled by Gotch and victimized in America, 
and calling for a rematch in Europe.[7] As undisputed free-style heavyweight 
champion of the world, Gotch spent the next three years establishing his 
dominance over the sport, defeating the likes of Jenkins, Dr. Ben Roller, 
and Stanislaus Zbyszko, who was believed to have won over 900 matches before 
falling to Gotch on June 1, 1910. The victory over Zbyszko was particularly 
spectacular, Gotch taking both falls in slightly less than half an hour, 
and thoroughly dominating his European opponent. He took the first fall 
in just six seconds with a surprise move and quick pin, and won the second 
fall in only 27 minutes. Gotch outmaneuvered and outclassed Zbyszko every 
second of the match.[8] Gotch became a national sensation. He was in demand 
everywhere for public appearances. He starred in a play called All About 
A Bout, and whenever he walked on stage he was greeted by a standing ovation. 
He was invited to the White House by President Theodore Roosevelt, and 
wrestled a Japanese ju-jitsu expert in the East Hall, making his opponent 
submit. The night before his second match with Hackenschmidt, he attended 
a Chicago Cubs baseball game at Wrigley Field with his wife and in-laws 
and took his seat down front. After the game, nearly every member of the 
Cubs team came to his private box and asked for his autograph.[9] When 
he traveled overseas with his play, he was a huge hit. It seemed that everywhere 
he went, fans wanted to see him. Everywhere he went, he made wrestling 
"big time." Gotch met Hackenschmidt again on September 4, 1911, at the 
newly opened Comiskey Park in Chicago, which drew a crowd of nearly 30,000 
spectators and a record gate of $87,000. The rematch is one of the most 
controversial and talked about matches in wrestling history, as Hackenschmidt 
injured his knee against Roller, his chief training partner. Years later, 
wrestler Ad Santel told Lou Thesz that he was paid $5000 by Gotch's backers 
to cripple Hackenschmidt in training, and make it look like an accident.[10] 
However, according to Hackenschmidt himself, the injury was accidentally 
inflicted by his sparring partner, Dr. Roller, when trying to hold Hackenschmidt 
down onto his knees and Roller's right foot striking Hackenschmidt's right 
knee. According to Hackenschmidt, his sparring partners were Americus (Gus 
Schoenlein), Jacobus Koch, Wladek Zbyszko and Dr. Roller. Ad Santel is 
not mentioned in any account of Hackehschmidt's training by either Hackenschmidt 
or Roller, both of whom offered their insights and accounts.[11] Whatever 
the case may be, if the injury was real, Dr. Roller did not consider it 
serious and referee Ed Smith dismissed it as inconsequential. Hackenschmidt 
himself ignored it completely in declaring, the day before the match, that 
he was "fit to wrestle for my life" and was "satisfied with my condition 
and confident of the outcome." If there was a knee injury, Gotch discovered 
it quickly and took advantage of it. The "Russian Lion" was easy prey for 
Gotch, losing in straight falls in only 30 minutes. Gotch clinched the 
match with his feared Toe Hold, which forced Hackenschmidt to quit.[12] 
Gotch reigned as the World Heavyweight Champion from his first victory 
over Hackenschmidt in 1908 until he retired in 1913 after defeating Estonian 
Georg Lurich April 1, 1913, in Kansas City, Missouri.[13][14] Gotch is 
one of the longer reigning World Champions in the history of professional 
wrestling, with a reign that spanned nearly 5 years; the only other champions 
to have longer reigns than Gotch are Bruno Sammartino, who held the WWF 
World Heavyweight Championship for a record of 7 years and 8 months, Lou 
Thesz, whose fifth NWA title reign lasted 7 years and 7 months and Verne 
Gagne who held the AWA World Heavyweight Title for 7 years and 3 months. 
Gotch competed in an era when a championship wrestling match was the same 
as a championship prize fight: i.e., it was a major event for which the 
wrestlers went into training and which promoters publicized for weeks. 
Thus, he did not have a long career in terms of the number of matches wrestled. 
His mentor, Farmer Burns, and later champions Ed Lewis, the "Strangler," 
and Lou Thesz, each engaged in more than 6,000 matches in their careers. 
Gotch engaged in only 160, finishing with a record of 154 wins and only 
6 losses. Of those six losses, however, two were in the first year of his 
career – to Dan McLeod and Farmer Burns – and three were to Tom Jenkins. 
His last defeat was to Fred Beell on December 1, 1906, when he had crashed 
head-first into an uncovered turnbuckle and been rendered nearly unconscious. 
He defeated Beell in seven rematches and never lost again by the time of 
his retirement in 1913. Gotch was, by all accounts, a superior wrestler 
possessing tremendous strength, lightning quickness, genuine agility, cat-like 
reflexes, impeccable technique, superb ring generalship, a mastery of the 
use of leverage, and a full knowledge of wrestling holds, counterholds 
and strategy. He was always in the best of condition and possessed both 
enormous courage and an indomitable will to win, ever ready to match his 
heart, his gameness, against any man in the world. He was highly aggressive 
but always kept his cool. Critics saw in him both the strength of the old 
school of wrestling and the skill of the new, “as agile as a cat in his 
manoeuvers” and having “the grappling sport down to such science that he 
had assumed a rank all by himself.”[15] Gotch's measurements for his 1911 
victory over Hackenschmidt were: Age - 33; Weight - 204 pounds; Height 
- 5'11"; Reach - 73"; Biceps - 17.5"; Forearm - 14"; Neck - 18"; Chest 
- 45"; Waist - 34"; Thigh - 22"; Calf - 18".[16] There is another side 
to this story, however. When Lou Thesz was just starting out in the early 
1930s, there were a good many wrestlers still active who had known Gotch 
and were not reluctant to talk about him. “The picture that emerged of 
Gotch from those conversations,” Thesz recalled, “was of a man who succeeded 
at his business primarily because he was, for lack of a kinder description, 
a dirty wrestler. That’s not to say that he wasn’t competent, because everyone 
I ever talked with said he was one of the best. But those same people described 
him as someone who delighted in hurting or torturing lesser opponents, 
even when they were supposed to be working out, and he was always looking 
for an illegal edge when he was matched against worthy ones. One of the 
old-timers I met was a fine man named Charlie Cutler, who knew Gotch very 
well and succeeded him as world champion; according to Cutler, Gotch would 
gouge, pull hair and even break a bone to get an advantage in a contest, 
and he was unusually careful to have the referee in his pocket, too, in 
case all else failed.”[17] Referee Ed Smith, who officiated several of 
Gotch’s bouts, including both of the Gotch-Hackenschmidt contests, had 
observed after the second match that “to my mind…he wasn’t just exactly 
through one hundred percent on the courageous side. Two or three times 
I saw needless acts of absolute cruelty on his part that I did not like. 
Always will I think that the really courageous man, no matter how ferocious 
and filled with the killing instinct and eager to win he may be, is willing 
to let up on a beaten foe and not punish needlessly or wantonly.”[18] For 
years one of America's most eligible bachelors, Gotch married Gladys Oestrich 
on February 11, 1911. They had one son, Robert Frederick Gotch. While in 
retirement, Gotch joined Sells-Floto Circus where he would pay any man 
$250.00 if they could last 15 minutes in a match against him without being 
pinned or conceding. Not once did he have to pay. He grew tired of touring 
and moved back to Humboldt. After a year of health troubles, Gotch died 
at home in 1917 of what was rumored to be syphilis, but the official cause 
of death was uraemic poisoning.[19] He left behind his wife Gladys and 
their son, Robert Friedrich. All are entombed together in the Gotch mausoleum 
in the Union Cemetery in Humboldt. "The story of American Wrestling at 
its greatest," Nat Fleischer wrote in 1936, "is the story of the career 
of its most illustrious champion—Frank Gotch... Gotch was to wrestling 
history in this country what John L. Sullivan was to boxing. He dominated 
the field. Through his extraordinary ability, he gained for wrestling many 
converts and brought the sport into such favor that it became as big in 
the promotorial field as boxing."[20] As Mark Palmer pointed out, “For 
starters, George Hackenschmidt and Frank Gotch were major sports superstars 
of the early 20th century. Fans of all ages collected cabinet cards and 
postcards with their images, read their books, and devoured articles about 
them in newspapers. Their epic matches were front-page news around the 
world—akin to today's Super Bowl or soccer's World Cup in terms of garnering 
global attention—and helped to launch organized amateur wrestling in the 
United States in the early part of the 20th century. In fact, a large number 
of high school and college wrestling programs can trace their roots back 
to the 1910s and 1920s—the era when Hackenschmidt and Gotch were still 
household names, and highly respected athletes.”.[21] Gotch was also a 
major sports superstar, often called the Hulk Hogan of his day, who lifted 
wrestling to new heights of popularity. When he became world champion, 
there were not many sports competing with wrestling for public attention. 
Horse racing remained a favorite sport and major league baseball was growing 
in popularity but was not yet the national pastime. Automobile racing was 
in its infancy; golf was still the province of the wealthy; basketball 
had just been invented and was vying for attention; boxing offered a man 
a chance at fame and fortune but was, at this time, riddled with scandals; 
the National Hockey League was formed the same year; and college football—the 
Ivy League game—was on the verge of being outlawed because it was too rough 
and too dangerous. Wrestling at the higher professional levels was still 
a legit sport with the added bonus that it was popular on every continent 
of the globe. And a number of great wrestlers were competing for top honors. 
In India the Great Gama was already a legendary champion, and in Europe 
Georg Hackenschmidt had reigned supreme with Stanislaus Zbyszko coming 
along. Right there you have three of the four greatest wrestlers who ever 
lived. But in America Tom Jenkins had been rather easily beaten by Hackenschmidt, 
so there was no American to capture the nation’s fancy until Gotch; and 
none of the other great wrestlers had either the amazing physical attributes 
or the gift for self-promotion that Gotch possessed. Furthermore, the United 
States was beginning to dominate some of the world's major sports. Americans 
already dominated boxing and within a decade would begin to dominate golf. 
When Gotch defeated Hackenschmidt, the domination of professional wrestling 
passed to the Americans. In addition, many matches had still been conducted 
under Greco-Roman wrestling rules, but this match caused Greco-Roman to 
be forever replaced by the more exciting catch-as-catch-can style.[22] 
Because of both his superior ability and his gift for self-promotion, Gotch 
became one of America’s greatest sports idols. He achieved a level of popularity 
similar to that formerly held by boxer John L. Sullivan and harness racehorse 
Dan Patch, and enjoyed later by such sports heroes of the Golden Age of 
Sports as boxing's Jack Dempsey, baseball's Babe Ruth, tennis's Bill Tilden 
and golf's Bobby Jones. This in turn made wrestling mainstream. Mac Davis 
wrote in 100 Greatest Sports Heroes, "As the idol of millions in the United 
States, Canada and Mexico, Gotch made wrestling a big-time sport in his 
day. He drew larger audiences than did the heavyweight champion of boxing 
when defending his title."[23] Gotch's first match against Hackenschmidt 
also remains perhaps the most famous wrestling encounter of all time.[24] 
Gotch was among the first elected to the Iowa Sports Hall of Fame (1951), 
and was the first inductee to both the Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame 
and Museum (2002) in Amsterdam, New York and the George Tragos & Lou Thesz 
Pro Wrestling Hall of Fame (1999) in Waterloo, Iowa. There is a 67-acre 
camping park named the Frank A. Gotch State Park, four miles south of Humboldt 
near his childhood farm, in homage to Gotch.[25][26][27] The Humboldt Community 
School District sponsors the annual Frank Gotch Wrestling Tournament. Because 
of Gotch's legacy, Iowa remains a wrestling stronghold at the high school 
and collegiate levels to this day.[28] Gotch’s success and fame is credited 
with playing a part in the creation of the Iowa High School Wrestling Tournament 
in 1921.[29] On July 4, 2012, an eight-foot tall bronze statue of Gotch 
was unveiled in Bicknell Park in Humboldt,[30] the site of his outdoor 
training camp where as many as 1,000 people watched him train before his 
second Hackenschmidt match.[31][32][33] In December 2011, a street running 
along the park was renamed Frank Gotch Boulevard.[34] There is an extensive 
Frank Gotch collection in the Dan Gable Wrestling Museum in Waterloo, Iowa.[35] 
On display are the wrestling shoes he wore into the ring in 1911 against 
Hackenschmidt, his Mason’s sword and leather scabbard, the roll-top desk 
that sat in his living room in Humboldt, and many other rare items. In 
addition, an independent film company acquired the rights to the book Gotch: 
An American Hero in 2008,[36] a biography written by Mike Chapman published 
in 1999,[37] and is listed as "in pre-production" on its official website,[38] 
yet still does not appear on the film company's IMDB credits page as in 
production as of April 2015.[39] In February 2015, WHO-TV news of Des Moines 
aired Iowa Icon: Gotch Up There with Feller, Warner, Gable with quotes 
from University of Iowa wrestling coach Tom Brands, among others, with 
the five-minute feature's title recognizing Gotch as one of Iowa's sports 
icons alongside Bob Feller, Kurt Warner, and wrestling legend Dan Gable. 
The video and story is archived on its website.[29] Karl Gotch and Simon 
Gotch both took their professional wrestling names as a tribute to him. 
On April 2, 2016 Gotch was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame as a "Legacy" 
