Baseball executive John Francis "Frank" Cashen (September 13, 1925 – June 
30, 2014) was a Major League Baseball general manager. He was an executive 
when the Baltimore Orioles won the 1966 World Series, and 1970 World Series 
while winning three consecutive AL pennants from 1969 to 1971. Later he 
became General Manager of the New York Mets from 1980 to 1991, and the 
club won the 1986 World Series during his tenure. Cashen was born in Baltimore, 
Maryland in 1925[1][2] and grew up admiring and playing baseball. He played 
second base at Loyola College in Maryland but was unable to hit well and 
did not pursue a playing career. Instead, he joined the Baltimore News-American 
becoming an award-winning sportswriter over 17 years at the newspaper. 
He spent nights at University of Maryland School of Law, graduating with 
a JD in 1958. He assumed his career would either be in journalism or law.[1] 
Instead, he was hired by Jerry Hoffberger to be a publicity director for 
two Baltimore race tracks and later the advertising head at Hoffberger's 
National Brewing Company. In 1965, Hoffberger's brewing company purchased 
the Baltimore Orioles and Cashen eagerly accepted the position of executive 
vice president of the team.[1] With Cashen overseeing baseball operations 
in Baltimore, general manager Harry Dalton made a deal to acquire future 
Hall of Famer Frank Robinson from the Cinncinati Reds, sending pitcher 
Milt Pappas, pitcher Jack Baldschun and outfielder Dick Simpson. The following 
year, Robinson won the triple crown and Baltimore won the 1966 World Series 
for their first championship. In 1968, the Cashen/Dalton front office hired 
eventual Hall of Fame manager Earl Weaver. The Orioles won all three American 
League pennants from 1969 to 1971 and won the 1970 World Series.[3] After 
1971, Dalton left to become general manager of the Los Angeles Angels and 
Cashen took over G.M. duties for the Orioles.[3] Cashen was being mentioned 
as a candidate for the American League presidency and was a leading choice 
to replace Baseball Commissioner Bowie Kuhn when a group of team owners 
tried to oust Kuhn in 1975. Kuhn survived the storm of 1975. Also in 1975 
Hofferger's National Brewery merged with Carling Brewery (American Operation). 
Hofferger requested Cashen to leave the Orioles and return to the Carling 
National Brewery as senior vice president of marketing and sales. In 1979, 
he returned to baseball when Commissioner Kuhn hired him as The Administrator 
of Baseball Operations.[citation needed] In January 1980, Nelson Doubleday, 
Jr. and Fred Wilpon bought the New York Mets after the Mets' third consecutive 
last-place finish. They were advised by several people to contact Cashen 
and, after he predicted four or five years for a turnaround, the new owners 
hired him for $500,000 over five years. Cashen hired public relations firm 
Della Femina Travisano & Partners. A new slogan, "The Magic Is Back!", 
was used along with television commercials emphasizing past New York area 
stars rather than the dismal Mets of the late 1970s.[1] On the field, the 
Mets made few trades early on, but took a chance with the first pick in 
the Major League Baseball Draft to sign a talented, but raw high school 
player, Darryl Strawberry, who eventually finished his Mets career as the 
all-time franchise leader in home runs and RBIs. In 1981, Cashen promoted 
Hubie Brooks and Mookie Wilson to the majors for spring training and then 
traded for brash home run hitter Dave Kingman. In 1982, Cashen delighted 
New York fans by trading for former unanimous MVP, George Foster, who then 
signed a five-year, $10 million contract with the club.[1] Two months later, 
Cashen alienated many fans by trading away fan favorite, Lee Mazzilli, 
who soon declined while one of the two pitchers the Mets received, Ron 
Darling, became an All-Star and the other pitcher, Walt Terrell, was later 
traded for offensive star, Howard Johnson. At the same time as the Mazzilli 
trade, the Mets were scouting young pitcher, Dwight Gooden, who they picked 
in the 1982 draft. Gooden would later become the ace of the pitching staff 
through the Mets' strong years and championship.[citation needed] While 
Foster and Kingman performed below expectations and the Mets finished poorly 
in both 1982 and 1983, Cashen made one of the most lopsided trades in franchise 
history, acquiring former MVP, batting champion, and 1982 World Champion 
member Keith Hernandez from St. Louis for pitchers Neil Allen and Rick 
Ownbey. Hernandez became a team leader both offensively and defensively 
while Allen was an average pitcher and Ownbey played in only 21 more games 
in the majors.[citation needed] In 1984, Cashen hired Davey Johnson to 
be the Mets' manager for a $100,000 annual salary.[1] Johnson had been 
the second baseman with the Orioles while Cashen was the G.M.[4] After 
a successful 1984 season which saw the Mets first winning record since 
1976, Cashen and the Mets traded Hubie Brooks and three others to the Montreal 
Expos for future Hall of Fame catcher, Gary Carter, and most of the pieces 
were in place for a championship team. The Mets barely missed the playoffs 
in 1985 and then won the 1986 World Series with the best record of any 
team during the 1980s.[3] While Cashen was largely credited for building 
the Mets into the 1986 World Champions, he was quickly vilified for dismantling 
the franchise when a dynasty never materialized. In various transactions, 
scrappy clubhouse leaders, Lenny "Nails" Dykstra, Roger McDowell, and Wally 
Backman, as well as fan favorite, Mookie Wilson,[3] and future All-Stars, 
Rick Aguilera and Kevin Tapani, were traded away. In return, the Mets received 
the hugely disappointing Juan Samuel as well as Frank Viola (who won 20 
games for the 1990 Mets but was otherwise only average in less than three 
seasons with New York), Jeff Musselman (who was out of baseball after 1990), 
and four players that never played in the majors. Hernandez, Carter and 
World Series MVP, Ray Knight were either released or granted free agency 
in the years following the championship. Instead, the Mets hopes were pinned 
on Gregg Jefferies who soon faltered and was very unpopular on the team.[1] 
After stumbling to a fifth-place finish in 1991, Cashen stepped down as 
the Mets' general manager.[1] Following his tenure as general manager of 
the Mets Cashen continued working with the team in various capacities including 
chief operating officer in 1992 and consultant in 1993.[5] In November 
1998, the Mets general manager, Steve Phillips, took time off to address 
a sexual harassment lawsuit and Cashen was named interim GM for a week.[6][7] 
Cashen was inducted into the Mets Hall of Fame[3] on August 1, 2010 alongside 
Davey Johnson, Dwight Gooden, and Darryl Strawberry.[8] Frank Cashen and 
his wife Jean had seven children.[9] Cashen was noted for frequently wearing 
a bow tie.[9] Cashen died on June 30, 2014, at the age of 88, after a short 
