Francis Joseph Navin (April 18, 1871 – November 13, 1935) was the principal 
owner of the Detroit Tigers in Major League Baseball for 27 years, from 
1908 to 1935. He also served as vice president and acting president of 
the American League. Born in Adrian, Michigan, Navin was one of nine children 
of Irish immigrants. He attended the Detroit College of Law and worked 
as both a lawyer and accountant. In 1902, Navin was a bookkeeper at the 
insurance offices of Samuel F. Angus when Angus led a syndicate that purchased 
the Detroit Tigers. Angus brought the 31-year-old Navin with him as the 
team's bookkeeper.[1] He also served as "secretary, treasurer, business 
manager, farm director, chief ticket seller, advertising manager, and any 
other position that demanded immediate attention."[2] In 1903, Navin bought 
$5000 in stock in the team, reportedly with money won in a card game. Navin 
had an eye for talent, and he built a team that won three straight pennants 
from 1907–1909. His signing of Ty Cobb and Hughie Jennings was instrumental 
in the development of the Tigers championship teams. But Angus soon tired 
of the Tigers' massive monetary losses, and told Navin to find a buyer. 
Navin quickly cut a deal with the richest man in Michigan, lumber baron 
William Clyman Yawkey. However, Yawkey died before the deal closed, and 
Navin persuaded his son, Bill Yawkey, to complete the deal. Yawkey had 
little involvement in the Tigers' day-to-day operations, largely leaving 
those in the hands of Navin. In January 1908, Yawkey sold Navin almost 
half the club, making him for all intents and purposes a full partner. 
Navin then became team president in name as well as in fact.[3] Baseball 
was not a side business for Navin. It was his principal business and passion. 
Navin once said: "No game is cleaner, healthier or more scientific. (Baseball 
brings) thousands of devotees out into the open air and the sunshine and 
distracts them from every contaminating influence." (Van Dusen, Ewald & 
Hawkins, The Detroit Tigers Encyclopedia, p. 33) And legendary Detroit 
News sports editor H. G. Salsinger wrote that "Navin was one of the few 
owners who knew the playing end of the game as well as the business end." 
Despite his love of the game, Navin developed a reputation as a penny-pincher, 
which was not surprising given he was trained as an accountant. A 1904 
letter he wrote to Hall of Famer Sam Crawford adds to the reputation. After 
hitting .338 for the Tigers in 1903, Crawford took his used uniform home 
to Wahoo, Nebraska, prompting Navin to send the following letter: [4] Navin's 
tightfisted nature came in part because unlike most of the other owners, 
he had no income apart from the Tigers. In 1919, after Yawkey's death, 
Navin bought 15 shares from the Yawkey estate to become half-owner of the 
Tigers. However, without Yawkey's fortune to fall back on, Navin had to 
take on additional investors to keep afloat. With this in mind, he brokered 
the sale of 25 percent of the Yawkey interest to auto-body manufacturer 
Walter Briggs, Sr., and another 25 percent to wheelmaker John Kelsey. After 
Kelsey's death, Briggs bought Kelsey's interest and became a full partner 
with Navin, though he stayed in the background. Navin's tough negotiations 
and salary battles with Tiger players are legendary. In the 1920s, Tigers 
slugger Bob "Fats" Fothergill always had a weight problem, and Navin constantly 
rode Fothergill about it. When Fothergill came to Navin's office in the 
winter to negotiate his contract, he wore a big, heavy overcoat to conceal 
the weight he had put on in the offseason. Navin figured out what Fothergill 
was up to and turned the heat way up in his office. Navin then sat back 
and engaged Fothergill in a long, drawn-out conversation about his family, 
hunting, and anything but the contract. As sweat poured off of Fothergill, 
Navin suggested that he take off the coat, but Fothergill insisted he was 
comfortable. When the conversation finally got around to the contract, 
Fothergill wanted to get out of Navin's hot office so badly that he accepted 
Navin's first offer.[5] Years later, when pitcher Elden Auker was called 
up to the Tigers in 1933, Navin told him: "Elden, we're bringing you up 
here as a starting pitcher. We think you have an opportunity to be a major 
league pitcher. I don't have a lot of money. My philosophy for starting 
pitchers is when they give you the ball, I expect you to pitch nine innings. 
I can't afford to pay you to start a ballgame and pay three or four others 
to finish it."[6] Navin's knowledge of the game and his reputation for 
penny-pinching are both reflected in his relationship with Ty Cobb. In 
1905, a young Cobb tried out with the Tigers, and many laughed at the skinny 
kid's eager tryout. But Navin was impressed with Cobb's effort and signed 
him for $1500.[7] Each year thereafter, Navin and Cobb engaged in prolonged 
contract negotiations, with Cobb holding out at times, and Navin ultimately 
paying what was needed to retain the best batter in baseball. In 1925, 
the Tigers were offered an opportunity to purchase a young Paul Waner from 
the San Francisco Seals, but Navin was not willing to pay the $40,000 asking 
price.[8] Cobb, who was the team's manager, was angered at Navin's refusal 
to sign Waner, and later said that their relationship deteriorated so much 
that "I couldn't stand to look at Navin."[9] In 1911, Navin tore down the 
Tigers' longtime home, Bennett Park, and built a new concrete-and-steel 
facility on the same site with a seating capacity of 23,000. The new park, 
named "Navin Field", opened on April 20, 1912. Renamed Briggs Stadium in 
1938, and then Tiger Stadium in 1961, the park built by Navin remained 
the Tigers' home until 2000. In 1924, as Detroit grew, Navin built a second 
deck on his stadium, increasing the seating capacity to 30,000. In May 
1912, Navin found himself embroiled in the first player strike in American 
League history. During a game in New York, Ty Cobb jumped into the stands 
and attacked a handicapped heckler who had been taunting Cobb with racial 
epithets. When American League President Ban Johnson suspended Cobb indefinitely, 
the Tigers voted to strike, refusing to play until the suspension was lifted. 
When Ban Johnson threatened Navin with a $5,000 per game fine if he failed 
to field a team, Navin told manager Hughie Jennings to find replacement 
players. As the Tigers were on the road in Philadelphia, Jennings recruited 
eight replacement "Tigers" from a neighborhood in North Philadelphia. The 
replacement Tigers lost 24-2 to the Philadelphia Athletics. The regular 
Tigers returned after a one-game strike. In 1920 Navin played a key role 
in the creation of the office of Commissioner of Baseball and the appointment 
of Judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis as the first Commissioner. The American 
League owners had become divided into two factions. One faction, the Red 
Sox, White Sox and Yankees, sought to remove Ban Johnson as the league's 
president. The other faction, the Tigers, Indians, Athletics, Browns, and 
Senators, known as the "Loyal Five", supported Johnson. When the Black 
Sox Scandal broke after the 1920 season, the White Sox, Red Sox and Yankees 
threatened to pull out of the American League and join a new 12-team National 
League. The enlarged league would include a new team in Detroit unrelated 
to the Tigers — an obvious attempt to push out Navin, a longtime Johnson 
loyalist. However, Navin was in no mood for another war and persuaded the 
other five clubs to agree to appoint a new National Commission of non-baseball 
men. Judge Landis was tapped as chairman, but would only accept an appointment 
as sole commissioner, with nearly unlimited power over the game. The owners, 
desperate to fight the perception that baseball was crooked, readily agreed. 
Navin developed a very close relationship with Landis, and Landis reportedly 
called Navin as many as 20 times a day for advice. After the other American 
League owners forced Johnson on an indefinite sabbatical in January 1927, 
Navin became acting president of the American League. Johnson returned 
in time for the start of the 1927 season, but was forced out entirely after 
the season, and Navin served as acting president until Ernest Barnard was 
elected as permanent successor. In 1931, Navin was nearly ruined by the 
Great Depression and by his losses betting on horse racing. Navin had a 
lifelong love of gambling on horse races, a quirk that was overlooked by 
his friend, Judge Landis. (Navin also worked for a time as a croupier at 
a turn of the century gambling house in Detroit. Van Dusen, Ewald & Hawkins, 
The Detroit Tigers Encyclopedia, p. 203.) He was thus forced to rely more 
and more on Briggs' money to keep the Tigers competitive. By 1933, the 
Great Depression (and a losing team) had cut attendance at Navin Field 
to a third of what it had been a decade earlier. Navin contemplated selling 
the franchise and even entertained an offer from Ty Cobb. (Van Dusen, Ewald 
& Hawkins, The Detroit Tigers Encyclopedia, p. 50) But Navin decided not 
to sell and tried to sign Babe Ruth, hoping to revive interest in the team. 
Instead, he ended up buying Mickey Cochrane from Connie Mack for $100,000. 
Cochrane proved to the sparkplug that helped the Tigers win two consecutive 
pennants in 1934 and 1935. After the Tigers lost the 1934 World Series 
to the Gashouse Gang from St. Louis, the 64-year-old Navin was reportedly 
heartbroken, having seen his teams win four American League pennants, only 
to lose four World Series. In October 1935, the Tigers finally won their 
World Series championship, and six weeks later, on November 13, 1935, Navin 
died. Navin had been riding one of his horses at the Detroit Riding and 
Hunt Club when he suffered a heart attack and fell from the horse.[10] 
Navin was buried in Holy Sepulchre Cemetery in Southfield, Michigan where 
the family mausoleum was decorated by Corrado Parducci and is guarded by 
