Francis C. Richter (January 26, 1854 – February 12, 1926) was an American 
journalist who served as founder and editor of Sporting Life from its inception 
to its demise, and editor of the Reach Guide from its inception in 1901. 
Richter died the day after completing the 1926 edition of the Reach Guide. 
As a writer and associate of baseball officials, he was influential in 
the early development of the game. Born in Philadelphia, Richter was a 
journalist from his youth. His early career as an amateur baseball player 
was an invaluable tool, which provided him with a rich supply of insight 
into the game and players' lives (Reach Guide, 1926). In 1872 he began 
his career with the Philadelphia Day, and when that paper folded eight 
years later, he had established his reputation as a successful managing 
editor in the journalistic world. He began writing for the Sunday World 
and started the nation's first newspaper sports department of the era while 
working at the Public Ledger. Richter helped form the original American 
Association of baseball in 1882 and to place the Philadelphia Athletics 
in it. The next year, becoming disgusted with the "Beer and Whiskey League" 
and its Sunday baseball, he helped organize the Philadelphia Phillies in 
the National League. In 1883 Richter founded the Sporting Life, a weekly 
magazine devoted to coverage of all sports, with an emphasis on baseball. 
Richter hired correspondents from around the country. He was the first 
editor of the journal, which became the mouthpiece of baseball and a great 
force in the national pastime. Within a year circulation had grown to 20,000, 
and by 1886 it was at 40,000. Initially each issue had 16 pages and sold 
for ten cents. On December 12, 1887, Richter and other baseball journalists 
formed the Base Ball Reporters Association of America, also referred to 
as the National Base Ball Reporters' Association, at Cincinnati. In 1902 
Richter jumped ship to join with the American League's founders. He was 
a World Series official for many years, and wrote a history of baseball. 
He warned of the potential problems of corruption in Sporting Life until 
1917, when its doors were forever closed due the outbreak of World War 
I. He died on February 12, 1926. By the end of the first quarter of the 
20th century, Richter had acquired a reputation as one of baseball's most 
influential personalities. In fact, he had acquired so much renown that 
in 1907 the National League offered him the presidency of the league. Richter 
declined the offer, wanting instead to promote baseball "by lift(ing) the 
game up to the heights" of a national pastime (Reach Guide, 1926, p. 351). 
Richter succeeded in lifting the game to these heights, seeing the sport 
through its darkest scandal in 1920 after the Black Sox Scandal. He continued 
his prestigious writing career, always seeking to improve the national 
sport, until the day before his death. Richter had roles in the promotion 
of baseball and sportsmanship, as a player's advocate in salary wars, as 
a force in the amalgamation of the National and American Association into 
a twelve-team National League in 1892, in the formation of a new National 
Agreement (where, however, he opposed the reserve clause as adopted), in 
prestigious rules committees, and as a mouthpiece against gambling. He 
had prominent roles in areas such as promotion, record-keeping and shaping 
of public opinion. He was a financial backer of the 1884 Union Association 
and its Philadelphia team. He declared the new league "the emancipator 
of enslaved players and the enemy of the reserve clause" (Voigt, 1966, 
p. 130). After the failure of the Players' League in 1890, Richter changed 
his allegiance, writing in the Sporting News that "Amidst all this noise 
and confusion the star ball player is the only one who can't lose, no matter 
which side wins" (Shaw, 2003). He was the author of History and Records 
of Baseball: the American Nation's Chief Sport (Philadelphia: Sporting 
Life Publishing Co., 1914). Richter died in his Philadelphia home on February 
12, 1926 at the age of 71, the day after completing the 1926 edition of 
the Reach Official Guide. The cause of death was bronchial pneumonia. He 
was survived by his wife Helen and their two children, and was buried without 
fanfare. Mr. Richter founded Sporting Life and was one of the best informed 
men in the world in regard to the game of Base Ball. He advocated changes 
in rules from time to time, assisted in the amalgamation of the American 
Association and the National League in 1891, and at one time was offered 
the presidency of the National League. For many years Mr. Richter edited 
Reach's American League Guide and was an advocate always of the higher 
ethics of professional sport. He was for clean Base Ball through and through, 
and the best policies for the game as a national pastime had no stronger 
supporter in all the coterie of great Base Ball writers who flourished 
when Base Ball was beginning to get away from its minor surroundings to 
