Frank Graham, Sr. (November 12, 1893 – March 9, 1965) was an American sportswriter 
and biographer. He covered sports in New York for the New York Sun from 
1915 to 1943 and for the New York Journal-American from 1945 to 1965. He 
was also a successful author, writing biographies of politician Al Smith 
and athletes Lou Gehrig and John McGraw, as well as histories of the New 
York Yankees, New York Giants and Brooklyn Dodgers. Graham's writing style 
was notable for his use of lengthy passages of "unrelieved dialogue" in 
developing portraits of the persons about whom he wrote. Graham was posthumously 
inducted into the "writers wing" of the National Baseball Hall of Fame 
and Museum in 1972. He was also posthumously honored in 1997 by the Boxing 
Writers Association of America with its highest honor, the A.J. Liebling 
Award. Graham was born in 1893 in the East Harlem section of New York City. 
His mother died during child birth, and he was raised by his grandmother 
and sister. He contracted spinal meningitis as a boy and lost vision in 
one eye. He completed only one semester of high school at New York's High 
School of Commerce.[1] From 1909 to 1915, he worked as an office boy for 
the New York Telephone Company and developed an interest in boxing. He 
participated in several amateur boxing matches and wrote articles on boxing 
for Boxing magazine and the New York World.[1] In 1915, Graham was hired 
by the New York Sun. He covered the New York Giants' spring training in 
1916. While working at the Sun, he became associated with Damon Runyan 
and Grantland Rice. He remained with the Sun for nearly 30 years. From 
1934 to 1943, he wrote a column in the Sun called "Setting the Pace."[1] 
In 1943, Graham was hired as the sports editor at Look magazine, a position 
he held for one year. During the 1940s, Graham also published several books, 
including biographies of Lou Gehrig ("Lou Gehrig, A Quiet Hero," 1942), 
John McGraw ("McGraw of the Giants: An Informal Biography," 1944) and former 
New York Governor and U.S. Presidential candidate Al Smith ("Al Smith, 
American: An Informal Biography," 1945). He also wrote critically acclaimed 
team histories of the New York Yankees, New York Giants and Brooklyn Dodgers 
that remained in print more than 50 years later. In 1959, Graham published 
his last book, "Third Man in the Ring," the story of boxing referee Ruby 
Goldstein as told by Goldstein to Graham.[2] In 1945, Graham was hired 
by the New York Journal-American. He wrote a column for the Journal-American 
known as "Graham's Corner" until 1964.[1] Condensed versions of his columns 
from the Journal-American were regularly featured in Baseball Digest and 
have fallen into public domain. Links to a number of his better-known columns 
are set forth below in the "Selected articles written by Graham." During 
his career as a sportswriter, Graham was known for his use of conversational 
dialogue as a device to develop a word portrait of athletes. His use of 
"unrelieved dialogue" as a writing device was said to be patterned on the 
work of Ernest Hemingway.[3] In a foreword to a later edition of Graham's 
history of the Yankees, Leonard Koppett wrote, "He didn't take a lot of 
notes. He just absorbed what was being said – and what it meant in the 
right context – and reproduced it in graceful prose and natural speech. 
It is this style of narration through dialogue that makes his books come 
so alive."[4] It was through Graham's use of conversational dialogue that 
one of baseball's legendary quotes was recorded. Graham reported on a conversation 
with Leo Durocher during which New York Giants manager Mel Ott and his 
players walked out of the opposing dugout. Durocher pointed to them and 
told Graham, "Take a look at them. All nice guys. They'll finish last. 
Nice guys. Finish last."[5] It was another Durocher conversation recorded 
by Graham that led to the nickname "Gashouse Gang" for the 1934 St. Louis 
Cardinals. Graham reported on a conversation between Durocher and Dizzy 
Dean. When asked if the Cardinals would win the pennant if they played 
in the American League, Durocher said, "They wouldn't let us in the other 
league. They would say we are a lot of gashouse ballplayers."[5] Graham 
also developed a reputation for kindness and tolerance.[1] His friend, 
Bob Reilly, described Graham as being "psychopathically polite."[6] Colleague 
Jimmy Cannon wrote: "A gentle man who seemed to walk on the tips of his 
toes as if he intended to pass through the world without disturbing anyone. 
... The copy was pure and so was he. He typed it quickly on the toy machine 
with the dainty tapping of polite fingers. He frisked the characters of 
even the rogues for their good traits and cherished them for that. He was 
an original, this embarrassed poet, who changed sports writing, and brought 
to it the dignity of folk literature."[7] Sportswriter Arthur Daley wrote 
that, at a dinner in the 1940s honoring Graham, Grantland Rice had asked 
the speakers to blast Graham with "words of scathing condemnation."[8] 
Giants' manager Mel Ott reportedly "stuttered" and "stammered" trying to 
find words of denunciation for Graham and finally said: "Dammit, Granny. 
I just can't, I gotta tell the truth. Frank Graham is the nicest, kindest, 
gentlest, finest, sweetest and most wonderful person I ever met in my life."[8] 
Despite his personal reputation as a gentleman, Graham was attracted to 
the shadowy underworld surrounding sport. In the "Dictionary of Literary 
Biography," Edward J. Tassinari wrote: "[M]any of Graham's pieces reflect 
the New York ambience of the 1920s and the influences of Runyon and Hemingway 
in terms of characterization, atmosphere, and dialogue. Graham loved the 
offbeat, shadowy figures and rogues that dwelt on the fringes of his favorite 
sports – the gamblers, bookies, struggling horse trainers, and injury-riddled 
jockeys, and fight managers and promoters hustling for a buck or demonstrating 
the resiliency to continue in search of that elusive big payday."[6] Quote: 
"The power of the team blinded onlookers to the skill and smoothness of 
its fielding. Enemy teams cracked and broke wide open before their assaults."—Frank 
Graham on the 1927 Yankees.[9] Graham developed cancer in 1960. When Graham 
appeared at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in 1961 to accept a lifetime achievement 
award from the New York chapter of the Baseball Writers Association of 
America, a UPI reporter covering the event wrote: "[T]he crowd rose to 
its feet in acknowledgement of one of the top writers in the country. And 
there weren't many dry eyes among them."[10] Graham's last column in the 
Journal-American was published in December 1964. In January 1965, Graham 
fell at his home in New Rochelle, New York, fracturing his skull.[11] He 
died several days later at Nathan B. Etten Hospital in The Bronx.[1] Graham 
was married to Gertrude Lillian Whipp in 1923. They had four children. 
In 1981, Graham's son, Frank Graham, Jr., wrote a dual biography of himself 
and his father titled "A Farewell To Heroes."[12] Graham was the recipient 
of numerous honors and awards for his writing. These include the following: 
