Fraxinus /ˈfræksᵻnəs/,[4] English name ash, is a genus of flowering plants 
in the olive and lilac family, Oleaceae. It contains 45–65 species of usually 
medium to large trees, mostly deciduous though a few subtropical species 
are evergreen. The genus is widespread across much of Europe, Asia and 
North America.[3][5][6][7][8] The tree's common English name, "ash", traces 
back to the Old English æsc, while the generic name originated in Latin. 
Both words also mean "spear" in their respective languages.[9] The leaves 
are opposite (rarely in whorls of three), and mostly pinnately compound, 
simple in a few species. The seeds, popularly known as "keys" or "helicopter 
seeds", are a type of fruit known as a samara. Most Fraxinus species are 
dioecious, having male and female flowers on separate plants;[10] if grown 
as an ornamental and both sexes are present, ashes can cause a considerable 
litter problem with their seeds. Rowans or mountain ashes have leaves and 
buds superficially similar to those of true ashes but belong to the unrelated 
genus Sorbus in the rose family. Species are organized according to phylogenetic 
analysis.[11][12] Closeup of European ash seeds Fraxinus ornus Unusual 
"treelets" growing from a fallen ash tree in Lawthorn wood, Ayrshire, Scotland 
Ash is used as a food plant by the larvae of some Lepidoptera species (butterflies 
and moths)—see list of Lepidoptera that feed on ashes. The emerald ash 
borer (Agrilus planipennis) is a wood-boring beetle accidentally introduced 
to North America from eastern Asia via solid wood packing material in the 
late 1980s to early 1990s. It has killed tens of millions of trees in 15 
states in the United States and adjacent Ontario in Canada. It threatens 
some seven billion ash trees in North America. Research is being conducted 
to determine if three native Asian wasps that are natural predators of 
EAB could be used as a biological control for the management of EAB populations 
in the United States. The public is being cautioned not to transport unfinished 
wood products, such as firewood, to slow the spread of this insect pest.[15] 
The European ash, Fraxinus excelsior, has been affected by the fungus Hymenoscyphus 
fraxineus, causing ash dieback[16] in a large number of trees since the 
mid-1990s, particularly in eastern and northern Europe.[17][18] The disease 
has infected about 90% of Denmark's ash trees.[19] At the end of October 
2012 in the UK the Food and Environment Research Agency (Fera) reported 
that ash dieback had been discovered in mature woodland in Suffolk; previous 
occurrences had been on young trees imported from Europe.[20] In 2016, 
the ash tree was reported as in danger of extinction in Europe.[21] Ash 
is a hardwood and is hard, dense (within 20% of 670 kg/m3 for Fraxinus 
americana,[22] and higher at 710 kg/m3 for Fraxinus excelsior[23]), tough 
and very strong but elastic, extensively used for making bows, tool handles, 
baseball bats, hurleys and other uses demanding high strength and resilience. 
It is also often used as material for electric guitar bodies and, less 
commonly, for acoustic guitar bodies, known for its bright, cutting tone 
and sustaining quality. Some Fender Stratocasters and Telecasters are made 
of ash, as an alternative to the darker sounding alder. They are also used 
for making drum shells. Interior joinery is another common use of both 
European and white ash. Ash veneers are extensively used in office furniture. 
Ash is not used much outdoors due to the heartwood having a low durability 
to ground contact, meaning it will typically perish within five years. 
The Fraxinus japonica species is favored as a material for making baseball 
bats by Japanese sporting goods manufacturers. Woodworkers generally like 
the timber for its great finishing qualities. It also has good machining 
qualities, and is quite easy to use with nails, screws and glue.[22] Ash 
was commonly used for the structural members of the bodies of cars made 
by carriage builders. Early cars had frames which were intended to flex 
as part of the suspension system in order to simplify construction. The 
Morgan Motor Company of Great Britain still manufacture sports cars with 
frames made from ash. It was also widely used by early aviation pioneers 
for aircraft construction. It lights and burns easily, so is used for starting 
fires and barbecues, and is usable for maintaining a fire, though it produces 
only a moderate heat. The two most economically important species for wood 
production are white ash, in eastern North America, and European ash in 
Europe. The green ash (F. pennsylvanica) is widely planted as a street 
tree in the United States. The inner bark of the blue ash (F. quadrangulata) 
has been used as a source for blue dye. The leaves of ash are appreciated 
by cows, goats and rabbits. Cut off in the autumn the branches can be a 
valuable winter supply for domestic animals. In Greek mythology, the Meliae 
were nymphs of the ash, perhaps specifically of the manna ash (Fraxinus 
ornus), as dryads were nymphs of the oak. They appear in Hesiod's Theogony. 
The ash exudes a sugary substance that, it has been suggested, was fermented 
to create the Norse Mead of Inspiration.[24] In Norse mythology, Yggdrasill 
was often seen as a giant ash tree. Many scholars now agree that in the 
past an error had been made in the interpretation of the ancient writings, 
and that the tree is most likely a European yew (Taxus baccata)[citation 
needed]. This mistake would find its origin in an alternative word for 
the yew tree in the Old Norse, namely needle ash (barraskr).[25] In addition, 
ancient sources, including the Eddas, write about a vetgrønster vida, which 
means "evergreen tree". An ash sheds its leaves in the winter, while yew 
trees retain their needles. The first man, Ask, was formed from the "ash 
tree". Elsewhere in Europe, snakes were said to be repelled by ash leaves 
or a circle drawn by an ash branch. Irish folklore claims that shadows 
from an ash tree would damage crops. In Cheshire, it was said that ash 
could be used to cure warts and rickets. In Sussex, the ash tree and the 
elm tree were known as "widowmakers" because large boughs would often drop 
