Frederick Michael Saigh Jr. (pronounced "sigh") (1905–1999) was a lawyer, 
real estate investor, and owner of the American professional baseball franchise, 
the St. Louis Cardinals of Major League Baseball (MLB) from 1948 through 
1953. Fred Saigh was born in Springfield, Illinois, and grew up in Kewanee, 
Illinois. The son of Lebanese immigrants who owned a chain of grocery stores, 
Saigh was the oldest of five children. He attended Bradley University in 
Peoria, Illinois, and graduated from Northwestern University with a law 
degree in 1926, at age 21.[1] and became a highly successful tax and corporate 
lawyer and investor in St. Louis. He apprenticed in a law office and earned 
his license in 1928.[2] One of Fred Saigh's early ventures was a company 
that operated cigarette machines, but that went bankrupt.[2] In the 1940s, 
he owned prime office buildings in downtown St. Louis.[3] The buildings 
were two famous landmarks, the Railway Exchange Building, which headquartered 
The Famous-Barr Co. retail chain, and Scruggs-Vandervoort-Barney building.[2] 
At the end of the 1947 baseball season, Saigh got wind that longtime Cardinals 
owner Sam Breadon wanted to sell. Breadon faced two problems. He was ill 
with prostate cancer, and he had been unable to find land on which to build 
a planned new ballpark. The Cardinals had rented Sportsman's Park from 
the city's other major league team, the American League Browns, since 1920. 
Although they had long since surpassed the Browns as the city's most popular 
team, Breadon wanted to build a park of his own. He had set aside $5 million 
to build a park, and was facing the end of a five-year deadline to build 
it before having to pay taxes on that money. Saigh persuaded Breadon to 
sell the Cardinals to him, with the assurance that he wouldn't have to 
pay taxes on his $5 million fund. To further put him at ease, Saigh brought 
in Robert Hannegan as a minority partner. Hannegan was a prominent St. 
Louis businessman, former United States Postmaster General, and confidante 
of President Harry Truman. The $4 million deal closed in late 1947.[4] 
Saigh inherited a team in transition. The Cardinals, though then just one 
year removed from their ninth National League pennant and sixth World Series 
championship since 1926, had begun to decay as an organization. Five years 
before, Breadon had forced out legendary general manager Branch Rickey, 
who had quickly resurfaced with the Brooklyn Dodgers. Meanwhile, the Browns, 
under new owner Bill Veeck, began a concerted effort to drive the Cardinals 
out of town. In January, 1949, Hannegan, suffering from poor health,[1] 
sold his share of the team to Saigh. Hannegan died that October of heart 
disease. As sole owner, Saigh's notable actions included leading other 
baseball owners to oust (by not renewing his contract) Commissioner of 
Baseball Happy Chandler in December, 1950.[5] and proposing revenue-sharing 
of local television revenues.[6] However, the tax dodge Saigh used soon 
came to light, as well as other questionable practices on his part.[4] 
In April 1952, Saigh was indicted on federal charges of evading $49,260 
in income taxes between 1946 and 1949. In January 1953, he pleaded no contest 
to two counts involving more than $19,000 in tax underpayments, and was 
sentenced to 15 months in prison.[3] He served five months at the federal 
penitentiary in Terre Haute, Indiana, leaving in November 1953 when he 
was given parole for good behavior. In February 1953, under pressure from 
Commissioner Ford Frick, Saigh put the Cardinals up for sale.[3] Saigh 
would have almost certainly been thrown out of baseball if he hadn't sold 
the team. For a time, no credible offers surfaced from St. Louis interests, 
making it seem likely that the team would be purchased by someone interested 
in moving them to another city. The most promising offer came from a consortium 
of businessmen in Houston, Texas. The Cardinals owned the Houston Buffaloes 
of the Texas League; under major-league rules of the time, that meant they 
also held the major-league rights to Houston. The only question was whether 
Buffalo Stadium could be upgraded to major-league standards.[7] However, 
just before he was due to reach a final agreement with the Houston group, 
Saigh sold the Cardinals to Anheuser-Busch, the St. Louis-based brewery. 
Although Anheuser-Busch's offer was far less ($3.75 million) than what 
out-of-town suitors had on the table, Anheuser-Busch president Gussie Busch 
persuaded Saigh that civic pride was more important than money. This all 
but assured that the Cardinals would stay in St. Louis. Shortly afterward, 
the Cardinals bought Sportsman's Park from the Browns. With their remaining 
leverage gone, it was the Browns who left town by the end of the season, 
becoming the Baltimore Orioles. After his release from prison, Saigh resumed 
his career in private business, amassing a large amount of stock in Anheuser-Busch 
– becoming the largest shareholder outside the Busch family itself. However, 
he was routinely critical of Busch, claiming the team was "demoralized." 
Saigh wrote an open letter dated August 20, 1964, three weeks before the 
Cardinals made their improbable comeback to overtake the Philadelphia Phillies 
and win the World Series.[2] He died in St. Louis, at the age of 94, worth 
approximately $500 million.[8] Saigh had a wife named Eiizabeth,[2] but 
had no children.[9] He left $70 million to charity in his will, establishing 
