Frederick Charles Lindy Lindstrom (November 21, 1905 – October 4, 1981) 
was a National League baseball player with the New York Giants, Pittsburgh 
Pirates, Chicago Cubs and Brooklyn Dodgers from 1924 until 1936. He was 
inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1976. At the age of 23, Lindstrom 
hit .358 for the Giants and was named The Sporting News Major League All 
Star team's third baseman ahead of Pittsburgh's Harold "Pie" Traynor.[1] 
Two years later, he repeated the honor while scoring 127 runs and batting 
.379, second only to Rogers Hornsby among right-handed batters in National 
League history.[2] In 1930, Giants manager John McGraw ranked Lindstrom 
ninth among the top 20 players of the previous quarter century.[3] Babe 
Ruth picked him as his NL all-star third baseman over Traynor for the decade 
leading up to the first inter-league All Star game in 1933.[4] Modern-day 
statistics guru Bill James, who rates Lindstrom No. 43 on his all-time 
third basemen list, placed him among the top three under-21 players at 
that position and called the 1927 Giant infield of Lindstrom, Hornsby, 
Travis Jackson and Bill Terry the decade's best.[5] From his rookie season 
in 1924 through 1930 as a Giants third baseman, a span of seven years during 
which he batted .328 and played brilliantly in the field, Lindstrom seemed 
headed for a place among the game's all-time greatest players. "Those hands 
of his (Lindstrom's) are the talk of the baseball world. Sensational playing 
places him among greatest in game," wrote sports writer Pat Robinson of 
the New York Daily News in the spring of 1929, after Lindstrom finished 
second the previous year to St. Louis Cardinal first baseman Jim Bottomley 
in the National League's Most Valuable Player balloting.[6] "The best third 
sacker in the National League, one of the greatest third basemen the game 
has ever produced," gushed William Hennigan in the New York World.[7] "Lindstrom 
hit peaks of third basing never before attained during the final month 
of last season," added Ken Smith in the New York Evening Graphic. "An outstanding 
individual of the game, another Hornsby, Wagner, Cobb, or Speaker, this 
kid, ace fielder, hitter, thinker and runner." [8] Joe Foley, in This Sporting 
Life, echoed a common theme among baseball writers during that stretch 
of Lindstrom's career when he named his perfect team: "Sisler on first, 
Lajoie at second, Wagner at short, Lindstrom at third, Ruth, Speaker and 
Cobb in the outfield, Kling catching and Brown, Walsh, Bender and Mathewson 
taking turns pitching." [9] In 1931, though, injuries including a chronic 
bad back and broken leg, brought about his switch to the outfield where 
for several years he remained an above-average but no longer All Star player 
until his retirement after 13 seasons in 1936.[10] Born on Chicago's South 
Side not far from Comiskey Park, Lindstrom as a youngster was an ardent 
White Sox fan, often playing hooky from school to watch their games. He 
was devastated when his hero, Shoeless Joe Jackson, and other teammates 
were banned from baseball for allegedly throwing the 1919 World Series.[11] 
Three years later, after a tryout with the Cubs didn’t pan out, he signed 
a contract at the age of 16 with the New York Giants. A sophomore at Chicago's 
Loyola Academy at the time, he was assigned to the Toledo Mudhens where 
he played for two years with such future Giant teammates as Travis Jackson 
and Bill Terry.[12] Called up in 1924 and eventually replacing the injured 
Heinie Groh at third base, 18-year-old Lindstrom batted .333 in the World 
Series including four hits in one game against Washington's Walter Johnson 
while playing errorless in the field.[13] The youngest player ever in a 
post-season game, he was described by Johnson after the fifth game as "a 
wonder, easily the brightest star in this series."[14] But a bad-hop bouncer 
over his head in the 12th inning of the seventh game gave the series to 
the Senators and became an enduring moment in baseball lore. "So they won 
it," Lindstrom later recalled. "(Giants pitcher) Jack Bentley, who was 
something of a philosopher, I think summed it up after the game. ‘Walter 
Johnson,’ Bentley said, ‘is such a loveable character that the good Lord 
didn't want to see him get beat again.’"[15] Playing in an era when fielders’ 
gloves were little more than padded strips of leather with a baseball-sized 
pocket in the palm, Lindstrom for three of the next four seasons led National 
League third basemen in fielding percentage. He also topped the league 
in assists in 1928, finishing second with 34 double plays and 506 total 
chances. All while posting 231 hits in both 1928 and 1930 including nine 
hits in a double header, a record never surpassed to this day.[16] A million-dollar 
infield," said writer Arnold Hano of the late-1920s Giant quartet. "Fans 
would come early just to watch their fielding-practice magic." In an essay 
on Willie Mays’ famous 1954 back-to-the-plate catch off Cleveland's Vic 
Wertz, Hano claimed that an even more sensational play was Lindstrom's 
full-length, leaping grab before crashing into the outfield wall in a 1932 
Giants-Pirates game that the New York Herald Tribune later called "the 
greatest catch ever made in the Polo Grounds."[17] During his nine seasons 
with the Giants, Lindstrom batted .318 (fourth on the team's all-time list 
in the 20th century), while demonstrating his ability to come through in 
the clutch with pennant-chasing hitting streaks in September 1928 that 
raised his average from .342 to .358 and in 1930 from .354 to .379.[18] 
As late as 1935 while playing center field for the Chicago Cubs, his .427 
batting average during a stretch of 21 consecutive victories was credited 
by such Chicago newsmen as John P. Carmichael and Warren Brown as the main 
factor in the Cubs’ drive for the NL championship.[19] Often referred to 
as "the last of the great place hitters" on McGraw teams that emphasized 
advancing runners into scoring position rather than relying on the long 
ball,[20] Lindstrom in 1931 was led to believe that he would succeed the 
long-time Giants manager. "We’re making that change we spoke about next 
year," Lindstrom, recuperating from a broken leg, said he was told by Giants’ 
club secretary Jim Tierney. "McGraw is going out and we want to make you 
manager."[21] Instead, for reasons that some traced to Lindstrom's leadership 
role in a player revolt against their often dictatorial manager (a charge 
he consistently denied, although admitting that he often spoke out against 
the feisty skipper nicknamed Little Napoleon), club owner Horace Stoneham 
chose first baseman Bill Terry to replace McGraw.[22] Although the two 
remained friends, Terry traded Lindstrom to Pittsburgh in 1933 because, 
Terry said, "Fred no longer has that burst of speed he used to have."[23] 
Playing in the outfield between Lloyd and Paul Waner, Lindstrom regained 
his elite status as a player by finishing second on the Pirates to shortstop 
Arky Vaughan by four percentage points with a .310 batting average (eighth 
highest in the National League), hitting 39 doubles and leading the league's 
center fielders with a .986 fielding average.[16] But after one outstanding 
season, Lindstrom again found himself involved with a team expected to 
contend for a pennant struggling with controversy. First, George Gibson 
was fired as manager 51 games into the season with the Pirates mired in 
fourth place. His replacement, Pie Traynor, moved Lindstrom to left field 
and then to the bench after breaking his finger in a fungo game.[24] At 
season's end, despite fielding .990 and again outhitting Lloyd Waner while 
playing in 43 fewer games, Lindstrom was traded to the Chicago Cubs where 
he quickly became what Cubs manager Charley Grimm later called "a vital 
asset" in the team's 1935 league championship.[25] Starting at third base 
ahead of Stan Hack, he was later shifted to fill a void in center field. 
There, Grimm said, as boss of the outfield he allowed only seven pop flies 
to fall safely during that 21-game streak. He also drove in the winning 
run, or scored it, in seven of the games including three singles and a 
double off Dizzy Dean of the St. Louis Cardinals in the pennant-clinching 
contest. "And why isn’t Lindstrom in the Hall of Fame?" Grimm asked in 
a 1968 interview.[26] After the Cubs lost to the Detroit Tigers in the 
World Series, however, the following January he was released and later 
signed by the Brooklyn Dodgers. After only 26 games and a .264 batting 
average on a Casey Stengel-led team known as the Daffy Dodgers for their 
often inept play (Stengel was fired at season's end), the onetime Boy Wonder 
turned Silver Fox at the age of 30 for his prematurely graying hair abruptly 
retired from baseball following a collision with infielder Jimmy Jordan 
while going for a routine pop fly. "I have been in this league 12 years," 
Lindstrom reportedly said, "and it never happened to me until I put on 
a Brooklyn uniform." [27] In later years, Lindstrom managed minor league 
teams at Fort Smith, Arkansas, and Knoxville, Tennessee. After coaching 
the Northwestern University baseball team for 13 seasons, he was appointed 
postmaster of Evanston, Illinois, a position he held until 1972. He died 
nine years later and is buried with his wife, Irene, in Chicago's All Saints 
Cemetery.[28] The youngest of their three sons, Chuck Lindstrom, played 
briefly for the 1958 Chicago White Sox, hitting a sacrifice fly, walking 
and tripling for a perfect 1.000 batting average in three plate appearances.[29] 
Although many modern-day baseball historians refer to Traynor as the era's 
premier fielding third baseman, the Pirate Hall of Famer led the league 
in errors five times including 37 in 1931 and 27 in both 1932 and 1933. 
Lindstrom's high mark was 21 errors in both 1928 and 1930. For the seven 
comparable seasons that Lindstrom played third base, his fielding percentage 
tops that of Traynor each year.[30] McGraw's list shows no bias for Giants, 
naming only Hornsby at No. 7 in the Top 10 and the great Christy Mathewson 
at No. 16. The first five, in order, were Honus Wagner, Ty Cobb, Willie 
Keeler, Eddie Collins and Babe Ruth. No other third baseman was cited. 
Donald Dewey and Nick Acocella (All Time All Star Baseball Book, Elysian 
Fields Press, 1992) list Lindstrom as the New York Giants all-time third 
baseman. The esteemed sportswriter, Red Smith, placed him at third base 
on an all-time New York all-star team that had no room for the likes of 
Mickey Mantle, Duke Snider or Mel Ott[31] John Kieran (Sports of the Times), 
reported the following: "Arthur Nehf was sitting in the Chicago dugout 
talking about the Giant hitters. He talked of Roush, Jackson, Terry and 
Hogan and then remarked decisively that Freddie Lindstrom was the cleverest 
of them all at the plate and the hardest man to fool in the clutch." [32] 
Lindstrom's four hits stood as the rookie record until matched by San Francisco's 
Buster Posey in the 2010 series. Along with a 24-game hitting streak in 
1930 and a 25-game streak in 1933, Lindstrom also ranks among the all-time 
top 10 in lifetime strikeouts to batting average ratio, 276 strikeouts 
to .311 batting average in 6,104 plate appearances. Lloyd Waner, Pie Traynor 
and Arky Vaughan are also on the list. (Graham Womack, Baseball Past & 
Present, May 25, 2011.) Lindstrom led the league in outfield assists in 
1932 and putouts in 1933. He came to the Pirates as "a strong defensive 
player and even better right-handed line drive hitter." (Dave Finoli and 
Bill Rainer: The Pittsburgh Pirates Encyclopedia, 1933.) Lindstrom was 
included in the balloting for the National Baseball Hall of Fame starting 
in 1949, but he never received more than 4.4% of the vote from the Baseball 
Writers' Association of America (BBWAA).[33] Former Giants teammates Terry 
and Frankie Frisch joined the Veterans Committee in 1967, and aided the 
elections of several of their former teammates, including Jesse Haines 
in 1970, Dave Bancroft and Chick Hafey in 1971, Ross Youngs in 1972, George 
Kelly in 1973, Jim Bottomley in 1974, and Lindstrom in 1976.[34][35] Lindstrom's 
selection, along with some of the other selections made by Terry and Frisch, 
has been considered one of the weakest in some circles.[36] According to 
the BBWAA, the Veterans' Committee was not selective enough in choosing 
members.[37] Charges of cronyism were levied against the Veterans' Committee.[38] 
This led to the Veterans Committee having its powers reduced in subsequent 
years.[39] In 2001, baseball writer Bill James ranked Lindstrom as the 
