Fred Claire (born October 5, 1935 in Jamestown, OH) is a former major league 
baseball executive who served in numerous roles for the Los Angeles Dodgers 
from 1969–1998 including the role of general manager from 1987 to 1998. 
Claire was born on October 5, 1935 in Jamestown, Ohio. His father owned 
and operated a drugstore. Claire has one brother and a sister. In 1950, 
Marston and Mary Francis Claire moved their family to Torrance, CA, a suburb 
of Los Angeles. Fred graduated from Torrance High School, then obtained 
his bachelor's degree in journalism from San Jose State University. He 
holds an Associate of Arts degree from Mt. San Antonio College and has 
been honored by the college as an outstanding alumnus. He also attended 
El Camino College, located in Torrance. While at El Camino, he had a paper 
published in Baseball Magazine called "Make Way for the Coast League" which 
discussed baseball on the west coast and turning the Pacific Coast League 
into a Major League.[1] Throughout the late 1950s and 1960s, Claire worked 
as a sports editor/sports writer for the Whittier Daily News, the Pomona 
Progress-Bulletin, and the Long Beach Independent Press-Telegram.[2] He 
married and had three children, Jen, Jeff, and Kim. In the spring of 1969, 
Fred was assigned to cover the Dodgers during spring training in Vero Beach, 
FL for the Press-Telegram. During the season, one of the assistants in 
the public relations department for the Dodgers was fired. Claire expressed 
his interest in the position to Dodger executives and was hired in July 
1969. He worked in that same position until 1975 when his boss, Dodgers 
vice president of public relations, Red Patterson, left to work for the 
California Angels. Claire moved into Patterson's position. During his time 
as VP of Public Relations, he was instrumental in creating the branding 
that came to be known as "Dodger blue" and the subsequent "Think Blue" 
campaign and also the hiring of announcer Ross Porter. Porter would remain 
a Dodger announcer from 1977 until 2004.[2] On April 6, 1987, Dodgers General 
Manager Al Campanis accepted the offer to appear on the Nightline television 
show to talk about his thoughts on the 40th anniversary of Jackie Robinson 
breaking the color barrier. Campanis did not alert anyone in the Dodgers 
organization that he would be on the show. When Campanis was asked why 
he felt there were not African American baseball managers, he stated, "I 
truly believe they may not have some of the necessities to be, let's say, 
a field manager, or perhaps, a general manager. Why are black people not 
good swimmers? Because they don't have buoyancy." These comments stunned 
the baseball world. Campanis, who did not have a reputation as a racist 
and was one of the few Dodger players to welcome Robinson during his debut, 
was forced to resign his post with the Dodgers with Claire assuming player 
personnel responsibilities.[3] Dodgers president Peter O'Malley moved Claire 
into the general manager position. After a dismal 1987 season, Claire rebuilt 
the team into an instant playoff contender. During the offseason before 
the 1988 season, Claire acquired veteran outfielders Kirk Gibson and Mike 
Davis, veteran shortstop Alfredo Griffin, and pitchers Jay Howell and Jesse 
Orosco. The Dodgers would go on to win the 1988 World Series against the 
heavily favored Oakland Athletics in just five games. His later moves were 
not as successful. On November 8, 1990 the Dodgers gave free agent outfielder 
Darryl Strawberry a five-year contract worth $20 million. At the time it 
looked like a good deal. Strawberry hit 37 home runs with a .277 batting 
average in 1989 for the New York Mets. However, Strawberry's time with 
the Dodgers was characterized by chronic back problems, drug abuse and 
overall underachievement. Strawberry was given his outright release on 
May 26, 1994 after he failed to show up to a game. The following year, 
on November 27, 1991, Claire traded pitchers Tim Belcher and John Wetteland 
to the Cincinnati Reds for outfielder Eric Davis and pitcher Kip Gross. 
It was supposed to set up a reunion of childhood friends Strawberry and 
Davis. However, Davis was also plagued by injuries throughout his less 
than 2-year stint with the Dodgers. He was traded to the Detroit Tigers 
in August 1993. Wetteland, was traded from the Reds to the Montreal Expos 
less than a month after he had joined the Reds. Wetteland went on to become 
one of the most dominating relief pitchers in the MLB throughout the rest 
of the 1990s. The transaction even Claire would later regret occurred in 
1994. In need of a second baseman after a contract dispute with Jody Reed, 
Claire sent the talented Pedro Martínez to Montreal for Delino DeShields. 
Martinez became one of the best pitchers in the MLB for the next decade 
and a half. Martinez was selected to 8 All Star teams and won the Cy Young 
Award in 1997, 1999 and 2000. Deshields spent three years as the Dodgers 
starting second baseman in which he was more known for his various injuries 
and numerous complaints that the Dodgers did not have enough black players 
on the team. Claire continued as the Dodger general manager through the 
1997 season. When Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, owner of the Fox network 
and 20th Century Fox purchased the team in 1998, officials stated that 
Claire and Field Manager Bill Russell would remain in their positions. 
On May 15, 1998, new Dodger officials made a blockbuster trade without 
the involvement or knowledge of General Manager Claire, a move that was 
unheard of in baseball at the time. The trade was one of the biggest in 
Dodger history. The Dodgers traded Mike Piazza and Todd Zeile to the Florida 
Marlins for Gary Sheffield, Charles Johnson, Jim Eisenreich and Bobby Bonilla. 
Claire was furious that the new FOX officials would make such a deal as 
Piazza had been with the organization for over a decade and Zeile had signed 
for less than market value to be closer to his home in suburban Santa Clarita, 
CA. Claire, who had full control of player transactions before FOX took 
over, pulled no punches when he was asked his feeling on the trade. On 
June 21, 1998 Claire and Russell were both relieved of their duties in 
what was deemed by those in baseball as the "Sunday Night Massacre." Russell 
