Freddy Jose Galvis (born November 14, 1989) is a Venezuelan Major League 
Baseball shortstop for the Philadelphia Phillies. Galvis was born in Punto 
Fijo, Falcón, Venezuela, and played Little League Baseball including the 
Little League World Series there before being discovered by one of the 
Phillies' scouts in the area. At age 16, he signed a contract with the 
Phillies despite not receiving much attention from scouts; he went on to 
spend the next several years in their minor league system, including a 
particularly lengthy stint with the Reading Phillies, the Phillies' Double-A 
(AA) affiliate. In 2012, he made his major league debut on opening day 
at second base, substituting for the injured Chase Utley. He became a fan 
favorite for his performance early in the season, especially on defense, 
until he sustained an injury, and subsequently was suspended 50 games after 
a positive test for performance-enhancing drugs. He missed the remainder 
of the season. Over the course of the next two seasons, he split time between 
the Lehigh Valley IronPigs – the Phillies' Triple-A affiliate – and the 
major league ball club, but struggled to establish himself offensively. 
Entering 2015, his future with the club was uncertain, although with the 
departure of Jimmy Rollins, he was a candidate to be the team's starting 
shortstop. Galvis is an outstanding defensive shortstop, capable of making 
acrobatic plays and utilizing a strong throwing arm. Conversely, he has 
struggled to establish himself as an effective offensive player, having 
consistently posted batting averages below .250 at the major league level, 
which hinders the team's ability to utilize him regularly. He aspires to 
emulate fellow Venezuelan Omar Vizquel, his role model. Galvis was born 
November 14, 1989, in Punto Fijo, Falcón, Venezuela, and at age 14, the 
Philadelphia Phillies began to scout him during his days playing youth 
baseball.[1] He participated on Latin America's team in the Little League 
World Series, but due to his slight stature (5 feet 10 inches (1.78 m) 
154 pounds (70 kg)), struggled to captivate scouts' attention. Galvis said, 
"They told me that I couldn't play (pro) baseball. But I knew I had the 
ability."[2] In 2006, scouts Sal Agostinelli and Jesus Mendez signed him 
during the amateur player signing period; Galvis, 16 years old, was not 
a particularly heralded prospect, but did receive some attention from scouting 
experts before signing with the Phillies.[1][3] Galvis participated in 
the Florida Instructional League in 2006. The next season, he officially 
began affiliated baseball in 2007 with the Williamsport Crosscutters at 
age 17, as one of just five players not born in the United States.[3] He 
made an impression with Phillies' personnel due to outstanding defensive 
skills that drew comparisons to those of Baseball Hall of Famer Omar Vizquel, 
and also demonstrated solid instincts while baserunning, despite struggling 
to get on base.[2] Concurrently, he hit .203 with nine stolen bases in 
38 games.[3] In 2008, with the Lakewood Blue Claws in the South Atlantic 
League, Galvis hit .238 with 14 stolen bases in 127 games. He had a particularly 
strong May, during which he hit .313 with 14 RBIs in May. He also earned 
placement on the league's postseason all-star team. He began 2009 with 
the Clearwater Threshers in Class A-Advanced, and was the Phillies minor 
league player of the week after he hit .417 from April 20 to 26. The following 
May, he fractured his right ring finger, and spent more than two months 
on the disabled list. Thereafter, he spent seven games with the GCL Phillies 
before finishing the season at Double-A, where he hit just .197.[3] Galvis 
returned to Reading for his 2010 season after earning an invitation to 
the Phillies' major league spring training. He led all shortstops in the 
Eastern League in fielding percentage, assists, putouts, and total chances. 
He was named an Eastern League all-star. After the season, he played for 
Navegantes del Magallanes in the Venezuelan Winter League.[3] Entering 
2011, he was "considered major-league-ready defensively but a major liability 
offensively."[4] But in 2011, at age 21, Galvis had the best season of 
his career to date. Always known as an excellent defender, but mediocre 
hitter, he was finally able to improve at the plate, thanks in part to 
a much more rigorous off-season conditioning regimen, and also due to hitting 
higher in the batting order, where he was thus challenged to make greater 
offensive contributions by utilizing a more aggressive approach. He also 
improved his arm strength to the point that at least defensively, coaches 
and front office personnel felt he was ready to be a major league shortstop.[4] 
Starting the year in Double-A (AA) with the Reading Phillies, Galvis hit 
.273, with 35 RBIs, in 464 plate appearances across 104 games. In August, 
Galvis was promoted to the Triple-A (AAA) Lehigh Valley IronPigs, with 
whom he hit .321 with nine multi-hit games and 13 runs scored in his first 
23 games. He hit in the leadoff spot with Lehigh Valley as well.[5] Overall 
with Lehigh Valley, he hit .298, with eight RBIs in 126 plate appearances 
during 33 games.[3] Between AA and AAA, he combined to hit .278 with eight 
home runs, 43 RBIs, 78 runs, and 23 stolen bases in 137 games. His excellent 
numbers were enough to earn the 2011 Paul Owens Award, which is given to 
the best position player and pitcher, respectively, in the Philadelphia 
Phillies minor league system.[3] At the end of the 2011 season, Galvis 
was sent to the Venezuelan Winter League, and despite a brief ganglion 
cyst injury, played there until December 1.[6] Galvis was disappointed 
to learn that Phillies' shortstop Jimmy Rollins had re-signed with the 
Phillies during offseason preceding 2012, as Galvis had hoped to replace 
him. He said that he allowed himself to pout for two hours, and then moved 
on.[7] With Rollins re-signing with the Phillies, Galvis thought he was 
headed back to the minor leagues. He entered spring training as the "one 
of the most intriguing story lines" for the Phillies, and led the team 
in several statistical categories, but still presumed to open the season 
in AAA.[3][7] However, on March 19, 2012, Phillies general manager Rubén 
Amaro, Jr. announced that Chase Utley would miss the beginning of the season 
due to a knee injury, and Galvis would be the opening day starter there.[7] 
Galvis became the first Phillies' player to make his major league debut 
on opening day in 42 years when he did so on April 5. In his debut, he 
hit into two double plays.[8] Galvis recorded his first major league hit 
in his fourth career game on April 9, a two-run double off of Miami Marlins 
pitcher Aníbal Sánchez. Four days later, he hit his first major league 
home run off of R.A. Dickey in a game against the New York Mets.[3] After 
spending two months as the Phillies' starting second baseman, Galvis injured 
his back on June 8; the injury was initially thought to be a lower back 
strain, but eventually diagnosed as a Pars fracture in his back. He was 
placed on the disabled list shortly thereafter. By that time, he had "won 
the hearts of fans and earned the confidence of his manager ... with dazzling 
defense."[9] While on the disabled list, Galvis tested positive for having 
a metabolite of Clostebol in his system, a violation of Major League Baseball's 
Joint Drug Prevention and Treatment Program.[10] Galvis denied any wrongdoing, 
commenting, "I cannot understand how even this tiny particle of a banned 
substance got into my body. I have not and never would knowingly use anything 
illegal to enhance my performance."[9] He did not play for the remainder 
of the Phillies' 2012 season.[3] There was considerable debate as to whether 
Galvis should open the 2013 season working on his hitting in AAA, or on 
the bench of the major league Phillies. Manager Charlie Manuel preferred 
the latter, commenting that even in 300 major league at bats splitting 
time between second base, shortstop, and third base, Galvis could make 
a greater contribution than in a season in the minor leagues.[9] Ultimately, 
he did make the opening day roster, but struggled through the first third 
of the season, and was optioned to AAA on June 27.[11] Correspondingly, 
the Phillies acquired veteran infielder John McDonald.[12] He performed 
better in AAA, including a 40-game streak during which he did not commit 
any errors, and a leadoff home run on the Fourth of July.[3] He returned 
to the major league Phillies as a September callup, and on September 7, 
2013, he compiled four hits including a game-winning home run against the 
Atlanta Braves.[13] Overall, 19 at second base, 14 at third base, 10 in 
left field, and six at shortstop comprised his 49 total major league starts. 
At the major league level, he hit .234 with six home runs and 19 RBIs, 
and in AAA, he hit .245 with three home runs and 25 RBIs.[3] Galvis opened 
the 2014 season with a health scare. During spring training, Galvis contracted 
a methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus infection (more commonly 
known as MRSA), ostensibly from the Phillies' clubhouse at Bright House 
Field in Clearwater, Florida.[14] "The team's most versatile and best defensive 
player", Galvis returned to the major league club on April 11.[15] After 
he struggled early in the season, the Phillies optioned him to AAA on May 
9 in favor of Reid Brignac.[16] Two days later, he broke his clavicle, 
and spent two months on the disabled list. After a rehabilitation assignment, 
he performed well at AAA, and earned a call-up to the major leagues, replacing 
Brignac, whom the Phillies designated for assignment.[17] Overall, Galvis 
posted his worst offensive season thus far; he hit .176 at the major league 
level with four home runs and 12 RBIs.[18] After the season, Michael Baumann 
of Crashburn Alley wrote, "After two years of medical and developmental 
setbacks, Galvis is still only entering his age-25 season, so it's possible 
the bat develops from bad to below-average and Galvis turns into something. 
I wouldn’t count on it, but it's still within the realm of possibility."[19] 
When the Phillies traded Rollins to the Los Angeles Dodgers prior to the 
2015 season, media reports speculated that Galvis and César Hernández were 
the presumptive nominees to start at shortstop for the upcoming season, 
likely seeking to bridge the gap between Rollins and J.P. Crawford, the 
top prospect in the Phillies' organization.[20][21] Galvis is a slap hitter 
who, throughout his major league career, has struggled to assert himself 
as a competent offensive player.[19] Generally, he seeks to drive the ball 
in the center of the field, and has shortened his stroke.[7][13] He has 
very little ability as a power hitter, but he has hit several home runs 
in key situations throughout his career, an anomaly that confounded Baumann, 
who noted that Galvis's inability "to force his way into the lineup by 
this point has probably scuttled any chance Galvis has of being the Phillies’ 
starting shortstop of the future."[19] Despite his offensive struggles, 
Phillies staff and media have long recognized Galvis's strong defensive 
skills, noting his propensity to make acrobatic and athletic plays, as 
well as utilize a strong throwing arm.[2][4] He aspires to emulate Omar 
Vizquel, his role model. Sam Donellon, a columnist for The Philadelphia 
Inquirer, noted that "there are similarities between Galvis and his idol. 
Both were signed at 16, both are switch-hitters, both struggled to hit 
pitching at any level in their early minor league seasons."[7] Cognizant 
that he is a smaller player, Galvis has spent significant time working 
to improve his physical strength and conditioning in the offseasons.[7][9] 
Galvis struggled off the field after his injury in 2012, noting that he 
only emerged from the covers of his bed to answer the door for takeout 
food, namely Chinese food, pizza, and cheesesteaks. Since then, he has 
started a daily therapeutic routine aimed at preventing future injuries, 
to which he is apparently susceptible after his first back injury.[9] His 
hobbies include relaxing at the beach and playing basketball.[3] Galvis 
married his wife, Anna, in 2013, and is the father of a girl named Anastasia. 
