Frederick A. Waterman (December 1845 – December 16, 1899) played third 
base for the original Cincinnati Red Stockings, the first fully professional 
baseball team. Throughout his career with "major" teams, amateur and pro, 
third base was his regular position in the field. Born 1845 in New York 
City, Waterman played for the Empire club of his native city in 1865 and 
for the famous Mutual club (New York Mutuals) the next two years. Some 
Mutuals players were compensated materially during the amateur era of National 
Association of Base Ball Players—city employment is one possibility—and 
Waterman may be considered a candidate. At age 22 Waterman moved to Cincinnati 
for the 1868 season and played for the original Cincinnati Red Stockings 
managed by Harry Wright. Open professionalism was one year away but the 
long move suggests that Waterman was somehow compensated by club members 
if not by the club. Cincinnati fielded a strong team that year, with five 
of the famous team already in place. Playing statistics suggest that Waterman 
was the second best batsman behind John Hatfield, another import from the 
Mutuals, for he was second on the team both in scoring 4.4 runs per game 
and in being put out only 2.3 times per game. When the NABBP permitted 
professionalism, the Red Stockings hired five incumbents including Waterman 
and five new men to complete its famous First Nine of 1869, the first team 
on salary for a season. A few others had previously played some third base 
(all played at the six infield positions in 1868), but Wright retained 
Waterman at the position. Cincinnati toured the continent undefeated in 
1869 and may have been the strongest team in 1870, but the club dropped 
professional base ball after the second season. Harry Wright was hired 
to organize a new team in Boston, where he signed three teammates for 1871. 
The other five regulars including Fred Waterman signed with Nick Young's 
Washington Olympics, an established club that also joined the new, entirely 
professional National Association (NA). The Olympics appointed as captain 
another transplant, Charlie Sweasy, but he missed two long stretches of 
the season with illness. Waterman served one stretch as acting captain 
and so earned his manager's credit in some accounts. The five former Red 
Stockings led the Olympics to a respectable finish in the inaugural NA 
season, but Waterman was left practically alone in the role one year later. 
He dominated the team at bat, while it failed miserably and dropped out 
after nine games. He was not picked up by another NA team, perhaps because 
four others of the eleven entrants went out of business during the season, 
but playing for a second team was a novelty that year. Probably he remained 
in Washington, for his major league career resumed when a new team from 
that city entered for 1873. He was a leading batsman again, now one of 
two on the team with Paul Hines, but he played only 15 of 39 games, more 
at shortstop than anywhere else, as captain Warren White manned third. 
There were eight teams in the NA field for 1874 and Fred Waterman was not 
a member. His known professional career ended with five of 69 games for 
Chicago in 1875. He was 29 years old and still better than league-average 
as a batter by his meager statistical record. Waterman died 1899 in Cincinnati 
