Carl Frederick Rudolf Merkle (December 20, 1888 – March 2, 1956), also 
documented as "Frederick Charles Merkle,"[1] and nicknamed "Bonehead",[2] 
was an American first baseman in Major League Baseball from 1907 to 1926. 
Although he had a lengthy career, he is best remembered for a controversial 
base-running mistake he made while still a teenager. Born in Watertown, 
Wisconsin, to Ernst Merkle, a Swiss immigrant, and Amalie Thielmann Merkle, 
a German American,[3] he was raised in Toledo, Ohio. Merkle played his 
first Major League game at the age of 18, with the New York Giants in 1907. 
He was still the youngest player in the National League, and used mostly 
as a pinch hitter, at the time of his infamous "boner" in 1908. Merkle 
became the Giants' regular first baseman by 1910 and contributed in that 
role to three straight pennant winners from 1911 to 1913. He was traded 
to the Brooklyn Robins in August 1916 and played in his fourth World Series 
that year. In April 1917, the Robins sold Merkle to the Chicago Cubs (ironically, 
the team that had saddled him with infamy back in 1908), with whom he continued 
as the regular first baseman through 1920. In 1918 with the Cubs, Merkle 
played in his fifth World Series in eight years, though he never won the 
championship. From 1921 to 1925, Merkle was the regular first baseman for 
Rochester in the International League. He returned to the Major Leagues 
in mid-1925, when he was acquired by the New York Yankees, but appeared 
in only seven games with the Yankees that year and one in 1926. After one 
year back in the International League as player-manager for Reading in 
1927, Merkle retired. Fred Merkle was inducted into the International League 
Hall of Fame in 1953. On September 23, 1908, while playing for the New 
York Giants in a game against the Chicago Cubs, while he was 19 years old 
(the youngest player in the National League), Merkle committed a base-running 
error that became known as "Merkle's Boner" and earned him the nickname 
"Bonehead". In the bottom of the 9th inning, Merkle came to bat with two 
outs, and the score tied 1–1. At the time, Moose McCormick was on first 
base. Merkle singled and McCormick advanced to third base. Al Bridwell, 
the next batter, followed with a single of his own. McCormick trotted to 
home plate, apparently scoring the winning run. The fans in attendance, 
under the impression that the game was over, ran onto the field to celebrate. 
Meanwhile, Merkle ran to the Giants' clubhouse without touching second 
base. Cubs second baseman Johnny Evers noticed this, and after retrieving 
a ball and touching second base, he appealed to umpire Hank O'Day, who 
later managed the Cubs, to call Merkle out. Since Merkle had not touched 
the base, the umpire called him out on a force play, meaning that McCormick's 
run did not count. The run was therefore nullified, the Giants' victory 
erased, and the score of the game remained tied. Unfortunately, the thousands 
of fans on the field (as well as the growing darkness in the days before 
large electric lights made night games possible) prevented resumption of 
the game, and it was declared a tie. The Giants and the Cubs ended the 
season tied for first place and had a rematch at the Polo Grounds, on October 
8. The Cubs won this makeup game, 4–2, thus the National League pennant. 
Accounts vary as to whether Evers actually retrieved the game ball or not. 
Some versions of the story have him running to the outfield to retrieve 
the correct ball. Other versions have it that he shouted for the ball, 
which was relayed to him from the Cubs' dugout. And still other versions 
have it that Giants pitcher Joe McGinnity saw what was transpiring, and 
threw the game ball into the stands; thus, the ball that was picked up 
by or relayed to Evers was a different ball entirely. The New York Times 
account of the play recalls that Cubs manager and first baseman Frank Chance 
was the one who "grasped the situation" and directed that the ball be thrown 
to him covering second base. At the time, running off the field without 
touching the base was common, as the rule allowing a force play after a 
potential game-winning run was not well known. However, Evers, who was 
noted as an avid student of the official rules of the game, had previously 
attempted the same play only a few weeks earlier, in Pittsburgh, with the 
same Hank O'Day umpiring. In that instance, O'Day had not seen whether 
the runner tagged second, so he declined Evers' appeal, but he apparently 
was alert to the possibility in the New York game. The outcome ensured 
that the rule was known to everyone afterward. Giants manager John McGraw 
was furious at the league office, feeling his team was robbed of a victory 
(and a pennant), but he never blamed Merkle for his mistake. The Cubs went 
on to win the 1908 World Series. The team then went through a 108-year-long 
postseason drought, before finally winning in 2016. Bitter over the events 
of the controversial game, Merkle avoided baseball after his playing career 
ended in 1926. When he finally appeared at a Giants old-timers' game in 
1950, he received a standing ovation.[4] Fred Merkle is commemorated in 
his hometown of Watertown, Wisconsin. The city's primary high school baseball 
field at Washington Park is named Fred Merkle Field. Also, a black plaque 
honoring him was erected in the park on July 22, 2010. A second plaque 
in Watertown is on the grounds of the Octagon House. Merkle's Bar and Grill, 
a popular Wrigleyville bar just one block south of Wrigley Field in Chicago, 
is named after Fred Merkle, and features his image prominently in the bar's 
logo and interior. The bar's website recounts the story of Merkle's infamous 
base-running gaffe, and its e-mail list is titled "The Bonehead".[5] Merkle 
and his wife Ethel Cynthia Brownson Merkle[1] enjoyed a lifelong marriage, 
from 1914 to his death in 1956. The Merkles had three daughters: Marjorie, 
Jeannette, and Marianne.[6] In 1906, Merkle played football for the Toledo 
Athletic Association as an end. That season, the team was defeated by the 
Canton Bulldogs by a score of 31–0. Merkle died in Daytona Beach at age 
67, and was interred there in Bellevue Cedar Hill Memory Gardens. He is 
buried at his parents' grave site, but only his parents' names are listed 
on the headstone.[7] As Fred had before her, Ethel died in Daytona Beach, 
