The Freeway Face-Off is a series of ice hockey games played between the 
National Hockey League (NHL)'s Anaheim Ducks and Los Angeles Kings. The 
series takes its name from the massive freeway system in the greater Los 
Angeles metropolitan area, the home of both teams; one could travel from 
one team's arena to the other simply by traveling along Interstate 5. The 
term is akin to the Freeway Series, which refers to meetings between the 
Los Angeles metropolitan area's Major League Baseball teams, the Los Angeles 
Dodgers and the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim.[1] The Kings and Ducks are 
rivals due to geographic proximity. The two teams are situated in the same 
metropolitan area and share a television market. The rivalry started with 
the Ducks' inaugural season in 1993–94 and has since continued. The Kings' 
first appearance in the Stanley Cup Finals came in 1993. They have reached 
the Stanley Cup playoffs 26 times in franchise history (seven appearance 
since the Ducks joined the NHL), most recently their appearance and victory 
in the 2014 Stanley Cup Finals. The Ducks have made the playoffs ten times 
in franchise history, also reaching the Stanley Cup Finals twice: in 2003 
and winning in 2007. The Kings and the Ducks did not meet in the playoffs 
until the 2014 Western Conference Semifinals. For regular and pre-season 
games, Kings fans have typically attended away games at the Ducks' home 
ice, Honda Center, in high numbers. Ducks fans have done the same for away 
games at the Kings' home ice, Staples Center. Games between the two teams 
are often very physical, typically including multiple fights and penalties. 
The rivalry was showcased for the NHL premiere in London at the start of 
the 2007–08 season with two games between the teams. It was also showcased 
as part of a 2014 NHL Stadium Series match at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, 
where Anaheim reigned victorious in a 3–0 shutout. The rivalry was further 
heated during the 2010 NHL Entry Draft, which was hosted by the Kings at 
Staples Center. When the Ducks took the stage to announce Cam Fowler as 
their first-round, 12th overall pick, the audience predominantly consisting 
of Kings fans, let out boos.[2] Prior to 2007, there was no official name 
for the regular season meetings between the Ducks and Kings. The "Freeway 
Face-off" name was chosen by a poll of 12,000 local hockey fans. Other 
names being considered were "Freeze-way Series" and "Ice-5 Series." [3] 
Several players have played for both teams, including: (boldface indicates 
Stanley Cup win with both teams) As division rivals, the Ducks and Kings 
could theoretically meet in either the first or second round of the Stanley 
Cup playoffs. They could also meet in the conference finals, provided that 
either or both teams qualify for wild card spots. However, neither team 
can meet in the Stanley Cup Finals. This differs from the similar Freeway 
Series between MLB's Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim and Los Angeles Dodgers, 
who are in separate conferences (the American League and National League, 
respectively), so they can only meet in the final round of the MLB post-season, 
the World Series. The Ducks and the Kings met in the playoffs for the first 
time 2014 in the Western Conference Second Round. Anaheim held home ice 
advantage as a result of winning the Western Conference title. The series 
began on May 3 at the Honda Center and ended on May 16.[1][2][3] While 
the Freeway Face-off is not as renowned as other NHL rivalries, Western 
Conference hockey fans know the rivalry to be intense. The Kings were the 
first NHL team in Southern California, brought in by the six-team expansion 
of 1967–68. The Kings' success of the late 1980s and early 1990s, largely 
due to the arrival of Wayne Gretzky in 1988, helped spike interest in hockey 
in Los Angeles, also spawning the growth of inline hockey in the area. 
The Ducks, formerly known the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim, came into the League 
for the 1993–94 season along with the Florida Panthers. With the Kings 
having been in existence for 26 years before the Ducks arrived, many saw 
the Ducks as taking away from the Kings' fanbase and attention in the local 
market. The Ducks' arrival in nearby Orange County brought new fans to 
the Southern California hockey scene, creating rivalry between the two 
teams and their fans. Many Kings fans who were disillusioned with the team's 
troubles after their 1993 Stanley Cup Finals appearance, and later with 
the imprisonment of former owner Bruce McNall, became Ducks fans. However, 
both teams have large, loyal fanbases. The rivalry is also known for local 
bragging rights, pitting big-city Los Angeles against its southern neighbor 
Orange County, which is more suburban. Staples Center and Honda Center 
are less than an hour apart via local freeways; many Kings fans fill Honda 
Center in great numbers, but numerous Ducks fans also make the short trip 
up the freeway to Staples Center as well. In recent years, crowds at both 
