May 19, 2016 Angel Stadium of Anaheim, Anaheim, CA The Freeway Series is 
a Major League Baseball (MLB) interleague rivalry played between the Los 
Angeles Angels of Anaheim and the Los Angeles Dodgers. The Angels are members 
of the American League (AL) West division, and the Dodgers are members 
of the National League (NL) West division. The series takes its name from 
the massive freeway system in the greater Los Angeles metropolitan area, 
the home of both teams; one could travel from one team's stadium to the 
other simply by crawling along Interstate 5. The term is akin to Subway 
Series which refers to meetings between New York City baseball teams. The 
term "Freeway Series" also inspired the official name of the regions' NHL 
rivalry between the Los Angeles Kings and the Anaheim Ducks: the Freeway 
Face-Off.[1] The rise of Southern California as a major region of the United 
States brought about a significant economic rivalry between neighboring 
Los Angeles and Orange counties. To many living outside of Southern California, 
the entire region is often simply referred to as "LA", associating Los 
Angeles and Orange counties with the same stereotypes and preconceptions. 
However, the two counties differ sharply in political ideology, socioeconomic 
status, and demographics. Los Angeles County is more liberal, and is represented 
by a more ethnically diverse population, while Orange County remains one 
of the most conservative areas in the state.[2] This divide led to the 
Los Angeles/Orange county line to be colloquially referred to as the Orange 
Curtain. This can be somewhat misleading, though, because the older, more 
urban, cities of northern and central Orange County (Anaheim, Santa Ana, 
Garden Grove, Buena Park etc.) are much more in tune with Los Angeles County 
cities than their southern Orange County counterparts. These older Orange 
County cities are much more diverse and less homogenous than the south, 
and the income levels and demographics represent this. The first exhibition 
game between the two clubs (won by the Angels) was played in 1962 in Palm 
Springs, at the time the spring training home of the Angels. The first 
pre-season series was played at Dodger Stadium, at the time the home ballpark 
of both teams April 6–7, 1963. The Angels won both of the two games played. 
After the Angels added Los Angeles to their official name in 2005, the 
rivalry took on renewed interest, as the series took on a more intracity 
atmosphere. Throughout the 2005 season, Dodger Stadium listed the Angels 
as "ANA" on its out-of-town scoreboard and team schedules, as it was prior 
to Angels' name change. However, the Dodgers now post "LAA" on both their 
scoreboard and schedules. Dodger broadcaster Vin Scully refers to the team 
as just the Angels when mentioning them on the air. Dodgers tickets still 
refer to the Angels as the "Anaheim Angels." As of the 2011 season, however, 
the Angels' out-of-town scoreboard in right field still lists the Dodgers 
by their pre-2005 "LA" abbreviation instead of "LAD". The Angels' name 
change was largely opposed by the Dodgers organization, city and county 
of Los Angeles, Anaheim, every other city in Orange County, and fans on 
both sides. The prevailing argument was that the Angels did not play within 
Los Angeles county limits, and that adding LA to the name inaccurately 
represented the location and background of the team's fans. The Angels' 
ownership countered that bringing the Los Angeles name to the American 
League was beneficial to the entire region and organization.[3] The adding 
of the "Los Angeles" to the Angels name still causes some resentment in 
the minds of both Angel and Dodger fans today.[citation needed] Translated 
from the Spanish, the Angels' full team name reads "The The Angels Angels 
of Anaheim." Regular- and post-season games between the two teams take 
place at either Angel Stadium of Anaheim or Dodger Stadium. The two stadiums 
are located approximately 30 miles (48 km) apart.[4] At one point, both 
teams were owned by major media conglomerates: the Angels had been owned 
by the Walt Disney Company,[5] and the Dodgers were owned by News Corporation 
(both companies each own one of the MLB broadcast partners, with News Corporation 
changing its name to 21st Century Fox in 2013).[5] Both teams have been 
sold in recent years. During the 2002 World Series, there was a moment 
of peace in the rivalry as a result of the nightmares the Dodgers and their 
fans were facing because the Angels played the San Francisco Giants, the 
fierce in-state rivals of the Dodgers.[6][7][8] The Los Angeles Times called 
the series "the Dodgers' 'Nightmare Series.'"[5] The New York Post called 
it "the worst-scenario World Series for the Dodgers."[8] The San Francisco 
Chronicle called the series "a Dodger fan's worst nightmare."[9] The Dodgers 
and their fans, including Chairman Bob Daly and former manager Tommy Lasorda, 
rooted for the eventual champions and attended their games in Anaheim.[6][7][8] 
Lasorda was at Game 2 and stood behind the batting cage and said that he's 
a big fan of Angels manager Mike Scioscia.[10] Daly attended Game 7 and 
sat near the Angels dugout, as a fan of late Angels owner Gene Autry.[11] 
This series was the Angels first championship, while the Dodgers' last 
title came in the 1988 World Series. History was made in 2014 when two 
MVPs were chosen from the same metropolitan area with the Angels outfielder 
Mike Trout winning the American League MVP and Dodger pitcher Clayton Kershaw 
winning National League MVP for the year. Bold face indicate World Series 
won with both teams. There have been different sets of brothers who have 
currently played for either one or both of these franchises. They include: 
Vladimir and Wilton Guerrero Orlando and Jolbert Cabrera Maicer and César 
Izturis* Erick and Willy Aybar* Jered and Jeff Weaver* As of 2016, 106 
players have played for both teams, including:[13] Some members of the 
Angels coaching staff played for the Dodgers.[6][7] They include: In addition 
to Scioscia, the following Angels managers played for the Dodgers: Additionally, 
retired Dodgers manager Joe Torre (2008–2010) was a broadcaster for the 
Angels from 1985–1990 Scioscia is the only man to have won three World 
Series with both teams (Dodgers in 1981 and 1988 and Angels in 2002). He 
led the effort in making the 2002 World Series a moment of peace in the 
rivalry.[7] As of 2015, the Angels and the Dodgers have never met in the 
postseason. To meet in the postseason would require that they both advance 
to the World Series in the same year. To date, the two teams have made 
the playoffs in the same year four times: 2004, 2008, 2009, and 2014. In 
2004, both teams lost in their respective Division Series, whereas in 2008 
the Angels lost to the Boston Red Sox, 3 games to 1 in the Division Series 
while the Dodgers swept the Chicago Cubs in 3 games only to lose to the 
eventual champion Philadelphia Phillies in 5 games in the National League 
Championship Series. In the 2009 playoffs, both teams advanced to their 
respective League Championship Series. The Angels lost the American League 
Championship Series in six games to the eventual champion New York Yankees, 
while the Dodgers lost game 5 of the NLCS to the defending champion Phillies. 
The Angels' only World Series win and appearance came in 2002, while the 
Dodgers' last one came in their championship season of 1988. In the end 
of September 2014 a possibility remained about the two teams meeting in 
the 2014 World Series, as both teams finished first in their respective 
divisions. However, the Angels lost in a 3-game sweep to the Kansas City 
Royals in the ALDS, while the Dodgers lost 3 games to 1 to the St. Louis 
