Frequency is a 2000 American science fiction thriller drama film. It was 
co-produced and directed by Gregory Hoblit and written and co-produced 
by Toby Emmerich. The film stars Dennis Quaid and Jim Caviezel as father 
and son, Frank and John Sullivan respectively. It was filmed in Toronto 
and New York City. The film gained mostly favorable reviews following its 
release via DVD format on October 31, 2000.[2] In October 1969, firefighter 
Frank Sullivan (Quaid) dies in a warehouse fire, leaving behind his wife 
Julia (Elizabeth Mitchell) and six-year-old son John. Thirty years later, 
in 1999, John (Caviezel), now an NYPD detective, is dumped by his girlfriend 
Samantha for refusing to move out of his father's house. John's childhood 
friend Gordo (Noah Emmerich) finds a Heathkit single-sideband ham radio 
that once belonged to Frank, but fails to get it working. The night before 
the anniversary of his father's death, John is surprised to find the radio 
broadcasting during an occurrence of the aurora borealis and has a brief 
conversation with another man concerning the 1969 World Series, which John 
is able to recount in specific detail. Eventually, he realizes that the 
other man is Frank and tries to warn him of his impending death. The next 
day, while attempting to rescue a young girl, Frank heeds his son's warning 
and manages to escape the warehouse. That evening, the two reconnect and 
learn a great deal about each other's lives. Subsequently, John begins 
to notice major changes in the present: Julia no longer lives at her current 
address, Samantha doesn't recognize him, and he learns that Frank died 
in 1989 from lung cancer. His boss, Sgt. Satch DeLeon (Andre Braugher), 
assigns him to investigate the "Nightingale", a serial killer who murdered 
three nurses in the 1960s. However, John discovers that the Nightingale 
is now connected to ten murders, including that of his mother two weeks 
after Frank's supposed death. Overwhelmed with guilt for the new murders, 
John persuades his father to help him prevent these crimes from occurring. 
Frank manages to save the first victim, but when he tries to rescue the 
second, the Nightingale subdues him and steals his driver's license, which 
he plants to frame Frank for the murder. When Frank shares his experience 
with his son, John instructs his father to wrap his wallet in plastic and 
hide it somewhere in the house. Using the preserved fingerprints from the 
wallet, John identifies the Nightingale as Jack Shepard (Shawn Doyle), 
a former detective who, in the original timeline, died from a medical error 
the same night Frank died. Since Julia didn't leave the hospital early 
after learning of Frank's death, she was able to save Shepard's life. Meanwhile, 
Frank is approached by then-Detective Satch DeLeon, who tries to arrest 
him on suspicion of murder. In the resulting struggle, the radio is knocked 
over and sustains damage, shutting it off. While awaiting questioning, 
Frank activates the precinct's fire sprinkler system, escapes, and breaks 
into Shepard's apartment, where he finds jewelry taken from the victims. 
Shepard catches Frank in the act and pursues him, ending with a fight underwater 
where Shepard seemingly drowns. Frank fixes the radio, but while talking 
both he and John are attacked by the 1969 and 1999 versions of Shepard. 
Using a shotgun, Frank manages to blow off Shepard's right hand in 1969, 
causing Shepherd's hand to disappear in 1999 just as he's about to kill 
John. The timeline rapidly fixes itself in 1999 and an elderly Frank kills 
Shepard and embraces his son. The film concludes with a baseball game including 
John, Samantha (now his wife), John's young son, Frank, Julia, Satch and 
Gordo, who's now wealthy on account of having invested in Yahoo! on John's 
advice. The film was greenlighted for production on January 21, 1999, although 
the script had been around much longer.[3] Sylvester Stallone was rumored 
to be taking the role of Frank Sullivan in 1997, but fell out of the deal 
after a dispute over his fee.[4][5] Renny Harlin was rumored to be director 
on the film.[4][5] Gregory Hoblit first read the script in November 1997, 
eighteen months after his father's death. In a 2000 interview shortly after 
the American release of Frequency, he described the film as "high risk" 
since the project had already been passed among several directors, including 
one of note who had twice the budget Hoblit was given.[6] In the same interview, 
he described the difficulty he had finding the two leads. Hoblit realized 
he needed an "experienced actor" to portray Frank Sullivan, and thus settled 
on Dennis Quaid.[6] Frequency received generally positive reviews. Based 
on 123 reviews collected by the film review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, 
the film has a 70% Approval Rating (Fresh) with the consensus as "a tight 
blend of surprises and suspense [that] keeps audiences spellbound".[7] 
Roger Ebert called the film's plot "contrived", yet gave the film a favorable 
review. He also pointed out similarities with the films The Sixth Sense 
and Ghost.[8] David Armstrong, of the San Francisco Chronicle, praised 
the moments in the film when John and Frank Sullivan talked to each other 
over the ham radio but criticized the "unintentionally funny climax". He 
also praised actor Shawn Doyle's performance as the Nightingale killer, 
calling him "convincingly creepy".[9] Todd McCarthy of Variety magazine 
said despite Dennis Quaid and James Caviezel's physical separation in the 
film, they formed a "palpable bond that [gave] the picture its tensile 
strength".[10] McCarthy noted that screenwriter Toby Emmerich's "bold leap 
into reconfiguring the past" created "agreeable surprises" and an "infinite 
number of possibilities" to the plot's direction. He added, however, that 
the serial killer subplot was "desperately familiar".[10] James Berardinelli 
gave the film two stars out of four, criticizing the "coincidence-laden 
climax" but wrote that "poor writing [did] not demand subpar acting", praising 
Frequency's "few nice performances".[11] The American Radio Relay League 
assisted in some of the technical aspects in the film, but some ham radio 
operators who saw the movie criticized some of the details; for one thing, 
operating a station without a license is a federal offense (something that 
John, a police officer, should have known). Another problem was the use 
of a Heathkit SB-301 receiver used as a transceiver (transmitter/receiver 
combination in one box); Heathkit did make them in the same style of the 
SB-301 receiver, the SB-100 and later SB-101 and SB-102 models.[12] Also, 
one character says "almost no one uses ham radio anymore"; in fact, the 
number of licensed ham radio operators has been climbing in the 21st century 
to new all-time highs, with nearly 750,000 licensed amateurs in the US 
alone. Another technical aspect that brought some complaints from hams 
was the way the conversation between son and father went from a PTT-style 
to full duplex/hands-free and hi-fidelity; this is impossible with any 
single-sideband modulation-type transmitter/receiver or transceiver. Overall, 
real ham operators, which includes numerous broadcast engineers and other 
professionals, liked the movie and the way amateur radio was portrayed 
in the movie. Frequency made $68,106,245 worldwide and was released in 
2,631 theaters in the United States.[13] Frequency was nominated for the 
Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation, but ultimately lost out to Crouching 
Tiger, Hidden Dragon. The film's ending song, "When You Come Back to Me 
Again", was nominated for a Golden Globe Award.[14] Written by Jenny Yates 
and Garth Brooks (performed only by Brooks), the song failed to win, losing 
out to "Things Have Changed" from Wonder Boys. Frequency was released on 
VHS on April 3 2001 and on DVD on October 31, 2001. It was later released 
on Blu-ray on July 10, 2012.[15][16][17] In November 2014, it was reported 
that Supernatural showrunner Jeremy Carver was in talks to produce a new 
television series adaptation/reboot based on the film for television network 
NBC. The film's writer Toby Emmerich is attached to serve as a producer 
for the series.[18] NBC passed on it, and a pilot was ordered at The CW 
