Fresno Fuego is an American soccer team based in Fresno, California, United 
States. Founded in 2003, the team plays in the Premier Development League 
(PDL), the fourth tier of the American Soccer Pyramid, in the Southwest 
Division of the Western Conference. The club drew an average home attendance 
of 3,951 in 2016, including league matches, divisional playoffs and exhibitions 
against professional clubs. The team plays its home games at Chukchansi 
Park, where they have played since 2006. The team's colors are red, white 
and black. The club enjoys a successful cross-promotional partnership with 
the Fresno Grizzlies AAA baseball team, which was the first of its kind 
in the PDL. Fuego made their debut in PDL competition in 2003, having picked 
up the franchise rights in 2002 by then partners Jaime Marquez Sr., J. 
Francisco Alvarez, J. Antonio Alvarez & Jaime Marquez Jr. from the former 
PDL champions, the Central Coast Roadrunners from San Luis Obispo. Playing 
on the campus of San Joaquin Memorial High School, Fresno made a blistering 
start to their first campaign, scoring eight goals in back-to-back wins 
over Nevada Wonders, California Gold and Orange County Blue Star, with 
standout striker Orlando Ramirez. Fresno's impressive early season form 
also saw them qualify for the US Open Cup, where they made it all the way 
to the fourth round with victories over Chico Rooks, Utah Blitzz and El 
Paso Patriots, before they finally fell, 3–1, to Los Angeles Galaxy. Fresno's 
home form was superb during their first season, losing just one game – 
a 3–2 turnaround to California Gold – the entire year. Fuego's Latin American 
connection, led by Ramirez and Fabricio Codeceira was influential and by 
the end of their debut year they were sitting proudly atop the Southwest 
table, ahead of Orange County Blue Star on goal difference. The playoffs 
were a disappointment; after defeating Northwest champions Spokane Shadow, 
Fresno fell to Blue Star in the conference final. 2004 saw the Fuego move 
to a new home at Fresno Pacific University, but the change did not affect 
their on-field performances, which included two 5–1 thrashings of the San 
Diego Gauchos, and nine-goal haul over 2 games against California Gold. 
Orlando Ramirez, Edgardo Contreras, Jose Luis Espindola and Milton Blanco 
continued their free-scoring exploits, and by the end of the 18-game season 
they finished just four points behind divisional champs Orange County Blue 
Star, and for the second year in a row made the playoffs. This time, however, 
Fuego took the conference title after wins over Cascade Surge and Blue 
Star. However, progress on the national stage eluded them, a 3–0 defeat 
to central conference champs Boulder Rapids Reserve ending their dreams 
of the PDL title. Nevertheless, two straight trips to the playoffs was 
impressive for a 2-year franchise. 2005 saw expansion in the Southwest, 
and Fresno suffered a little. Despite opening strongly with 3 wins in their 
first 4 games, a mid-season slump saw them drop points against the Southern 
California Seahorses, California Gold and BYU Cougars. As a result, the 
gap between them and the divisional leaders – Blue Star and Seahorses – 
was too great, and despite winning 5 of their last 6 games – and scoring 
15 goals in the process – they eventually finished third in the table. 
Veteran Edgardo Contreras and new signing Amaury Nunes were the top marksmen, 
knocking in 8 goals each, while Brazilian Fabricio Codeceira was a midfield 
dynamo, registering 7 assists for the season. Once again, Fresno's playoff 
campaign was a short one, falling to Orange County Blue Star in the first 
game. 2006 was more difficult still for Fuego. First of all, they found 
themselves without a permanent home stadium, and instead were forced to 
travel all over the city – to Golden West High School and Central High 
School amongst others – in search of a pitch on which to play. Secondly, 
even more expansion in the division raised the level of competition considerably. 
Fresno stuttered inconsistently through their opening games, beating San 
Diego Gauchos 5–2, then losing, 4–0, to Los Angeles Storm, thrashing San 
Diego, 4–0, then losing, 4–1, to the expansion San Francisco Seals. Fabricio 
Codeceira and Amaury Nunes remained potent in front of goal, netting 18 
times between them, but their spotty form was their downfall, and by the 
end of the season head coach Jaime Ramirez's men were a distant fifth behind 
league leaders Orange County Blue Star and Southern California Seahorses. 
2007 saw a huge change in fortunes for the Fuego. Before the season began 
the team signed a partnership with the AAA baseball franchise, the Fresno 
Grizzlies, resulting in cross-promotion, publicity, and a new home: Chukchansi 
Park in the heart of downtown Fresno. Buoyed by fan support which reached 
3,000 spectators at home games, Fuego were resurgent: impressive early-season 
wins over the Southern California Seahorses and the San Fernando Valley 
Quakes kept them in the hunt for the playoffs, and their impressive home 
form meant that, by the end of the year, they were one of the four teams 
battling for the two playoff spots. A final day 3–1 victory over the San 
Francisco Seals gave them the divisional title over the San Fernando Valley 
Quakes on goal difference; prolific Brazilian striker Pablo Campos scored 
two of his 18 goals, and cemented his position as the league-leading goalscorer. 
The playoffs, which were hosted by Fresno at Chukchansi, saw them demolish 
Tacoma Tide, 4–1, and then knock off Northwest champs BYU Cougars to take 
their second conference title; but once again their national challenge 
saw them fall at the first hurdle, losing, 1–0, to eventual PDL national 
champions Laredo Heat. 2008 was a year of continued growth for Fuego in 
business terms, unveiling a new logo, and building on their new 3,000-strong 
fan base and their relationship with the Fresno Grizzlies at Chukchansi 
Park. On-field, the team stuttered slightly in the opening month of the 
season, winning just one of their first three games, 2–1, away at Southern 
California Seahorses. By mid-season, however, Fuego were burning up their 
opposition, with striker Pablo Campos continuing his free-scoring ways. 
He scored two in the 4–3 win over Orange County Blue Star, a hat trick 
in the 4–0 home win against Bakersfield Brigade, two more in the 4–1 demolition 
at Lancaster Rattlers, and another hat trick in the 6–2 annihilation of 
Los Angeles Legends in late June. By this time, Campos had been spotted 
by international scouts, and before the end of the month he was off to 
GAIS in Gothenburg, Sweden, to begin his professional career, leaving Fresno 
to find a replacement marksman. Campos's send-off was a disappointing one, 
with Fresno losing, 4–1, at home to Ventura County Fusion in his farewell 
game, and it was almost as though Campos' impending departure was affecting 
Fuego. They suffered another 4–1 home loss in July, this time to the San 
Fernando Valley Quakes, and by the time the season finale came down, Fuego's 
lead had been whittled away. The final regular season game, away at San 
Fernando Valley Quakes, was a winner-take-all game for the divisional title. 
The Quakes won it, 2–1, to take the championship, but Fresno made it through 
to the post-season to host the Western Conference championship for the 
second year in succession. Their first round game was a rematch against 
Northwest Conference champions Tacoma Tide; however, without Campos's firepower, 
Fresno were toothless in attack, and eventually fell, 3–0. Despite leaving 
mid-season, Pablo Campos was still Fuego's top scorer with 14 goals, while 
the ever-dependable Fabricio Codeceira contributed 13 assists. Fresno suffered 
one of their worst seasons in several years in 2009. A general lack of 
firepower – the result of losing Pablo Campos and Amaury Nunes to the professional 
ranks – and a frustrating tendency to inconsistency kept the Fuego on the 
back from their opening game, which they lost, 1–0, to divisional new boys 
Hollywood United Hitmen. Fuego bounced back with a 3–0 win over the Los 
Angeles Legends, and played Lancaster Rattlers to an astonishing 5–5 tie 
at the end of May where they were 4–0 down at half time, fought back to 
lead, 5–4, only to concede a last minute equalizer. The season's high point 
was the 5–1 hammering of Orange County Blue Star in June in which Santiago 
Aguilera Navarro his a brace; the low point was the 7–1 annihilation they 
suffered at the hands of the Legends at home a week later. A middling run 
through the middle part of the season left Fuego playing catchup as July 
began, and despite winning three of their final five games – including 
a 3–0 victory over local rivals Bakersfield Brigade and a 3–1 final day 
victory over divisional champions Hollywood, they finished the season in 
fifth place, out of the playoffs for the first time in three seasons. Tyler 
Reinhart and Paul Islas were Fresno's top scorers, with 5 goals each. 2010 
was a season of two halves for Fresno. The first half of the season was 
generally poor. They lost their opening game of the season, 3–0, to the 
Hollywood United Hitmen, bounced back to beat the Ogden Outlaws, 4–0, but 
then were annihilated, 7–2, by Orange County Blue Star.[1] The season's 
nadir came in the return game against Orange County in early June when 
the Fuego, 3–0 up after 52 minutes, fell apart and somehow managed to lose, 
4–3, thanks to a hat trick from OC's striker Amani Walker.[2] Things began 
to change in mid-June thanks to an impressive 4–1 away win over the Lancaster 
Rattlers; following this victory, Fuego embarked on a marvellous 8-game 
unbeaten streak to the end of the season, comprising 6 wins and 2 ties. 
Milton Blanco scored a 90th minute winner in a seesaw 4–3 victory over 
the Southern California Seahorses[3] which saw three red cards. They came 
back from a 2–1 deficit to beat Los Angeles Azul Legends, 3–2, in early 
July, in a game which saw the Legends reduced to 8 men in the second half,[4] 
and wiped the floor with Lancaster on the final day of the regular season 
with a 7–0 victory in which second half substitute Gabriel Gonzalez hit 
a hat trick.[5] Unfortunately for Fresno their early season form proved 
to be their undoing, and despite rising from the bottom of the table, eventually 
finished fourth in the division, and out of the playoffs. Veteran Fuego 
midfielder Fabricio Codeceira was the team's top performer, with 10 goals 
and 7 assists on the season. As at August 14, 2016[6] Note: Flags indicate 
national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules. Players may hold 
more than one non-FIFA nationality. This list of notable former players 
comprises players who went on to play professional soccer after playing 
for the team in the Premier Development League, or those who previously 
played professionally before joining the team. Attendance stats are calculated 
by averaging each team's self-reported home attendances from the historical 
