The Frisco RoughRiders (short form: 'Riders) are currently the Class AA 
affiliate of the Texas Rangers major league baseball club. The team plays 
in the Texas League, assigned to the South Division. Prior to 2003, the 
franchise was based in Shreveport, Louisiana, and were known as the Shreveport 
Captains (and, for the 2002 season, the Shreveport SwampDragons). In 2003, 
they were purchased by Mandalay Entertainment in connection with Tom Hicks, 
former owner of the Texas Rangers and the Southwest Sports Group.[1] Mandalay 
Baseball moved them to the North Texas city of Frisco and changed their 
name to the RoughRiders. They currently play at Dr Pepper Ballpark in Frisco. 
Opened on April 3, 2003, the stadium seats 10,600 fans.[2] The stadium 
is both unique and innovative; both bullpens are surrounded by seats and 
there is a pool area available for rental just beyond the right center 
field wall. In 2016, Forbes listed the RoughRiders as the tenth-most valuable 
Minor League Baseball team with a value of $37 million.[3] On June 16, 
2014, it was announced that Mandalay Baseball Properties LLC, who owns 
the Texas Rangers Double-A Affiliate, the Frisco RoughRiders, have entered 
into a definitive agreement with the CEO and Managing Partner of the Myrtle 
Beach Pelicans, Chuck Greenberg, as well as RoughRiders President Scott 
Sonju, for the sale of the Frisco RoughRiders franchise. The agreement 
is still subject to customary closing conditions, that would include approvals 
from both the Texas League and Minor League Baseball, as well as a review 
by the Office of the Commissioner of Major League Baseball. Chuck Greenberg 
will be Chairman, CEO, as well as the Managing Partner of the newly formed 
Frisco RoughRiders LP, which is a partnership of local investors who will 
acquire the RoughRiders. Mr. Sonju is a Co-Managing Partner and he will 
continue to serve as RoughRiders' president to oversee the day-to-day operations 
of the team under Mr. Greenberg's leadership.[4][5] "The Rough Riders" 
was the name bestowed by the American press on the 1st U.S. Volunteer Cavalry 
Regiment during the Spanish–American War, headed by to-be American President 
Theodore Roosevelt. The team was named after a historical division in order 
to comply with the tradition of the major league affiliate, the Texas Rangers, 
who were named after the Texas Ranger Division. December 3: Frisco Minor 
League Team is announced Southwest Sports Group (SSG) and Mandalay Sports 
Entertainment (MSE) reach an agreement of joint ownership of a Double-A, 
Texas League franchise to be located in Frisco, Texas. February 6: Frisco 
Baseball Stadium underway Officials with the Double-A team and representatives 
of the City of Frisco and Collin County broke ground on a new ballpark 
to be ready for the 2003 season. July 4: Frisco RoughRiders unveil team 
name and logo At a July 4 Centennial Celebration, the Frisco Professional 
Baseball Team announced their new name and logo. September 26: RoughRiders 
announce affiliation with Texas Rangers Frisco RoughRiders Professional 
Baseball announced its Major League affiliation with the Texas Rangers. 
"We are thrilled to be the Double-A affiliate of the Rangers", said President 
& General Manager Mike McCall. "A player may be a RoughRider in April and 
a Ranger by August." January 21: RoughRiders announce ballpark The Frisco 
RoughRiders announced that Dr Pepper/Seven Up, Inc. and the Dr Pepper Bottling 
Company of Texas have entered into a partnership with the RoughRiders for 
naming rights to the team's state-of-the-art stadium. April 3: RoughRiders 
sell out inaugural Season Opener In the first ever professional game at 
Dr Pepper/Seven Up Ballpark, the RoughRiders announce a sellout of over 
10,000 fans. September, 2: Dr Pepper/Seven Up Ballpark named "Best New 
Ballpark for 2003" Each year, the award by baseballparks.com goes to the 
new baseball stadium with the best combination of superior design, attractive 
site selection and fan amenities. September 2: First playoff game is played 
at Dr Pepper/Seven Up Ballpark The first playoff game for both the RoughRiders 
and Dr Pepper/Seven Up Ballpark was played as the 'Riders defeated Wichita. 
September 13: RoughRiders advance to Texas League Championship Series The 
‘Riders advance to the Texas League Championship Series to face the San 
Antonio Missions, but lost four games to one in the best-of-seven series. 
September 26: RoughRiders set attendance records during inaugural season 
Dr Pepper/Seven Up Ballpark witnessed 675,620 fans come through the turnstiles 
in the RoughRiders’ inaugural season, which ranked fourth overall in all 
of minor league attendance. August 30: ‘Riders earn playoff berth for second 
straight season The 'Riders finished off a remarkable second half run and 
clinched the Texas League East Division title at Dr Pepper/Seven Up Ballpark. 
September 9: ‘Riders advance to Texas League Championship The Frisco RoughRiders 
wasted no time in dispatching the Drillers to clinch the Texas League Eastern 
Division Title and moved on to face Western Division Champs Round Rock 
in the Championship Series. September 18: RoughRiders win Texas League 
Championship The Frisco RoughRiders shut down the Express and captured 
its first Texas League title in just its second year of existence as Frisco 
won the best-of-seven Texas League Championship Series. June 21: Frisco 
hosts Texas League All-Star Game Andre Ethier leads the East All-Stars 
over the West, 5–0, with a key RBI-single. July 28: RoughRiders combine 
for Perfect Game A.J. Murray, Steve Karsay, and Scott Feldman combined 
to pitch a perfect game in Corpus Christi. The final score was 3–0 as it 
was the first no-hit game in the three-year history of the Frisco RoughRiders. 
September 4: RoughRiders end season with 58–82 record June 17: Four RoughRiders 
are chosen for Texas League All-Star Game Pitchers Thomas Diamond and John 
Danks, infielder Adam Morissey, and outfielder Anthony Webster were selected 
to the Mid-Summer Classic. September 1: Frisco finishes 2006 season with 
72–68 record RoughRiders finish in third place in the South Division. June 
12: Six RoughRiders selected for Texas League All-Star Game June 16: Frisco 
clinches playoff berth The RoughRiders won the first half title and earned 
an automatic spot in the Texas League playoffs for the first time since 
2004. September 3: RoughRiders end regular season with franchise-best record 
Frisco ended the 2007 season with a regular season record of 85–55, the 
best ever in RoughRiders’ history. September 7: Frisco swept in first round 
of 2007 playoffs Frisco was defeated three games to none by San Antonio 
in the first round of the Texas League Playoffs. September 12: Dave Anderson 
named Manager of the Year Leading Frisco to the best record in the Texas 
League, first-year Manager Dave Anderson was named Texas League Manager 
of the Year, the first time a Frisco manager earned such an award. October 
6: Mandalay named Baseball Organization of the Year Mandalay Baseball Properties, 
the owner and operator of the Frisco RoughRiders was named "Baseball Organization 
of the Year", by Ballpark Digest. November 15: Frisco recognized as top 
Double-A franchise The RoughRiders were named the 2007 Bob Freitas Award 
winner for Double-A minor league baseball by Baseball America. March 29: 
RoughRiders top Rangers in exhibition game In this inaugural event, Frisco 
defeated the big league club in one of the last exhibition games before 
the regular season for both teams. April 24: RoughRiders welcome 3,000,000th 
fan May 18: Matt Harrison tosses no-hitter Lefty starter Matt Harrison 
throws the first no-hitter at Dr Pepper Ballpark and second in franchise 
history. June 10: RoughRiders secure playoff spot Frisco clinches a playoff 
berth in the Texas League Playoffs with a First Half Championship, the 
second first-half title in the past two years. July 7: Feliz debuts with 
100 MPH fastball Hard-throwing youngster Neftalí Feliz made his Double-A 
debut in Frisco with several pitches over 100 MPH. August 13: Holland dominant 
in Double-A debut Lefty Derek Holland struck out 10 in his Double-A debut. 
August 28: Scott Little named ‘08 Texas League Manager of the Year For 
the second consecutive season, a Frisco manager took home the award and 
only the second time a team won in back-to-back seasons with different 
managers. September 1: Frisco clinches second-half title For the first 
time in franchise history, the RoughRiders won both the first and second 
half titles with a combined record of 84–56. September 5: RoughRiders win 
South Division Frisco sweeps San Antonio and advances to the Championship 
Series to face Arkansas. September 15: Frisco falls in final game of Championship 
Series The RoughRiders were one win away from a Texas League Championship, 
but dropped the final game to Arkansas. April 2009: Rangers first-round 
draft pick starts season with Frisco First baseman Justin Smoak, selected 
by the Rangers in the first round of the June 2008 draft, starts 50 games 
for the RoughRiders, hitting .328 with 6 home runs and 29 RBI. June 16: 
Five RoughRiders selected to 73rd Texas League All-Star Game Pitchers Jose 
Diaz and Kasey Kiker, as well as catcher Manuel Pina, outfielder Craig 
Gentry and first baseman Justin Smoak are all named All-Stars. July 1: 
Dr Pepper Ballpark hosts 73rd Annual Texas League All-Star Game. September 
7: The ‘Riders lose 3–0 in Midland to end the regular season and miss out 
on post-season play. April 8: Former Rangers’ third baseman Steve Buechele 
makes his Frisco debut Behind a strong outing from ‘Riders starter Blake 
Beavan, Buechele earned his first victory as a Double-A manager, besting 
the Springfield Cardinals 2–1 on Opening Day. June 19: ‘Riders clinch First 
Half South Division Title Go Tanner Roark earned the win pitching 5.1 innings 
as the RoughRiders topped the Corpus Christi Hooks 7–3 at Whataburger Field 
to win the First Half Title. July 9: Two RoughRiders traded in Cliff Lee 
deal Just hours before first pitch in Springfield, Missouri, the ‘Riders 
learn that second baseman Matt Lawson and righthander Josh Lueke are part 
of the deal that also sent former ‘Riders Blake Beavan and Justin Smoak 
to the Seattle Mariners in exchange for Cliff Lee and Mark Lowe. August 
28: Three Rangers rehab at Dr Pepper Ballpark Cristian Guzmán, Ian Kinsler, 
and Nelson Cruz bat 1–2–3 for the ‘Riders, but the club gets shutout by 
Midland 2–0 in front of 11,666 fans (second largest crowd at time of publication). 
August 30: Blake Beavan Texas League Pitcher of the Year After posting 
a 10–5 record and a 2.78 ERA over 17 starts, the former first round draft 
pick earns Texas League Pitcher of the Year honors. (At the time of the 
award, Beavan was pitching for Triple-A Tacoma). September 11: Post-season 
comes to and end in Midland The RoughRiders lose the best-of-five Divisional 
Round to the Midland RockHounds losing three games to one. The 2010 season 
ended on this night after a 9–4 loss to the ‘Hounds in Midland. May 4: 
Leonys Martín signs with the Rangers Signed to the second highest contract 
of its kind, the Cuban defector signed with the Rangers with a five-year 
major-league contract worth $15.5 million. June 13: Nine 'Riders named 
Texas League All-Stars June 30: Five millionth fan The milestone of five 
million fans coming to Dr Pepper Ballpark took place during the game against 
the Springfield Cardinals. The RoughRiders won 7–6 after the game was tied 
heading into the bottom of the ninth inning. August 1: Two RoughRiders 
traded in Mike Adams deal Hours before the trade deadline, pitchers Robbie 
Erlin and Joe Weiland were traded to the San Diego Padres in exchange for 
Mike Adams. August 10: Osuna break record Second baseman Renny Osuna is 
the new 'Riders all-time hits leader passing Steve Murphy's record of 319 
hits. Osuna finished the season with 153 hits bringing his career total 
with Frisco to 347 hits. September 10: Post-season run ends The RoughRiders 
lose the best-of-five Divisional Round to the San Antonio Missions losing 
three games to one. The 'Riders ended the regular season with 79 wins and 
61 losses. April 4: Darvish dazzles at the "Doc" Making his first pitching 
performance in the Metroplex since signing with Texas for $60 million (after 
the Rangers paid a $51.7 posting fee to the Hokkaido Nippon Ham Fighters), 
Yu Darvish strikes out top Frisco prospect Jurickson Profar to begin four 
scoreless innings in a 6–1 exhibition win over the RoughRiders at Dr Pepper 
Ballpark. April 16: Buechele makes Frisco history Frisco edges Arkansas 
2–1 behind a superb outing by Justin Grimm (6.1 IP, 1 H, 0 R, 1 BB, 5 K) 
for the team's fourth straight win. The victory gives Steve Buechele his 
155th win as manager of the RoughRiders, passing Tim Ireland for the most 
in team history. May 19: Profar shows age is just a number The youngest 
player in all of Double-A baseball, wunderkind shortstop Jurickson Profar 
extends his hit streak to 29 games in a 13–0 victory over San Antonio. 
The 19-year-old's streak would end the next night, but he would keep his 
on-base streak going until it reached 50 straight games (the longest such 
streak in Minor League Baseball for 2012) on June 2. May 26: No stopping 
Loux Former Texas A&M ace Barret Loux wins his tenth straight start to 
begin the season, establishing a new team record for consecutive victories. 
June 3: Power surge sends Olt into overdrive Power hitting prospect Mike 
Olt finishes his biggest homer binge of the season, blasting two home runs 
in a game for the third straight contest. Olt went on to lead the Texas 
League in home runs with 28 despite getting called up to the big leagues 
in early August. June 14: Plenty of All-Stars and even bigger news On the 
day that nine RoughRiders are named Texas League All-Stars, pitcher Justin 
Grimm learns that he will start for the Rangers in two days in front of 
a nationally televised audience. He goes on to strike out seven and allow 
three runs over six innings in a win over the Houston Astros. July 31: 
Brigham becomes a Cubbie The Rangers trade RoughRiders pitcher Jake Brigham 
to the Cubs in a deal that brings catcher Geovany Soto to Texas. Brigham 
would be traded back to Texas in the off-season for Barret Loux. September 
7: Tepesch cages Corpus Nick Tepesch silences a raucous Whataburger Field 
crowd with a dominating effort at Corpus Christi as the ’Riders beat the 
Hooks 5–0 to sweep the South Division Championship Series 3–0. September 
15: Cardinals celebrate at Texas' expense... again Less than 12 months 
after the St. Louis Cardinals beat the Rangers in the World Series, the 
Redbirds’ Double-A affiliate finishes off another championship against 
a Texas-affiliated squad. The Springfield Cardinals squeak past Frisco 
2–1 in Game 4 of the Texas League Championship Series for their first TL 
title. Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches 7-day disabled 
list * On Texas Rangers 40-man roster # Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve list 
‡ Restricted list § Suspended list † Temporary inactive list Roster updated 
August 31, 2016 Transactions → More MiLB rosters → Texas Rangers minor 
league players These players were once, or currently are, part of the RoughRiders 
(not including any rehab assignment) and have then succeeded to have a 
