FSN Chicago is a defunct American regional sports network that was owned 
by Cablevision for most of its history (from 1987 to 2005); News Corporation 
acquired a minority ownership interest in the network in 1997, which Cablevision 
bought out in 2005. Based in Chicago, the network was affiliated with SportsChannel 
from 1987 to 1997, when it became an affiliate of Fox Sports Net. The network 
carried games from most of the Chicago area's major league sports teams 
including the Chicago Cubs and Chicago White Sox Major League Baseball 
franchises; the NHL's Chicago Blackhawks; the NBA's Chicago Bulls; the 
Chicago Fire of Major League Soccer; and the Arena Football League's Chicago 
Rush. It also aired local and national collegiate sports, including those 
sourced from sister network Fox Sports Detroit. FSN Chicago launched in 
April 1982 as Sportsvision, a joint venture between Jerry Reinsdorf (owner 
of the Chicago White Sox, who at the time, had recently also became the 
new owner of the Chicago Bulls), Eddie Einhorn (co-owner of White Sox with 
Reinsdorf, and who also worked as a television sports producer and promoter) 
and Fred Eychaner (owner, at the time, of independent station WPWR, then 
on channel 60, now a MyNetworkTV owned-and-operated station on channel 
50). Since Chicago was one of the last major U.S. cities where cable television 
was still not widely available, Sportsvision initially operated as an over-the-air 
subscription service, broadcasting over WPWR each weeknight and on weekends. 
Viewers were required to purchase a set-top converter and pay a monthly 
fee to view the telecasts, which included Bulls, White Sox and Blackhawks 
games, as well as college sports events of local interest. Some sports 
telecasts were also simulcast on ONTV, a co-owned subscription service 
that broadcast part-time over WSNS (channel 44, now a Telemundo owned-and-operated 
station). By this point, the Bulls and White Sox continued to broadcast 
a number of games on broadcast television locally, while the Blackhawks 
moved all of their game broadcasts over to Sportsvision, ending a longstanding 
partnership with WSNS. Because of this, some set-top converters sold as 
part of ONTV and Sportsvision subscriptions began incorporating a switch 
to allow subscribers to tune to either ONTV or Sportsvision. By 1984, White 
Sox games had begun airing on ONTV as well. The decision to move most of 
the White Sox broadcasts to pay television led longtime announcer Harry 
Caray to become the play-by-play voice of the rival Chicago Cubs, due to 
the limited exposure that the White Sox would experience as a result of 
having the majority of games on a medium that would limit the reach of 
the team's televised game broadcasts. Chicago was (and to this day, still 
is) one of the very few television markets in the United States whose baseball 
teams made a substantial percentage of their games available over-the-air. 
Until the mid-1990s, the Cubs still televised all of their games that were 
not aired nationally on the major broadcast networks (ABC, NBC, and later 
CBS) over WGN-TV (channel 9, now a CW affiliate) and a regional network 
of television stations throughout parts of the Midwest. The WPWR-Sportsvision 
partnership faltered by January 1984; as a result, the channel was sold 
to the Bethpage, New York-based Cablevision Systems Corporation, which 
later converted Sportsvision into a basic cable service. In 1989, the channel 
became an affiliate of the SportsChannel America group of regional sports 
networks, relaunching as SportsChannel Chicago. On June 30, 1997, News 
Corporation and Liberty Media – which had created a new group of regional 
sports networks known as Fox Sports Net in November 1996, through News 
Corporation's partial acquisition of the Liberty-owned Prime Network – 
purchased a 40% interest in Cablevision's sports properties including the 
SportsChannel America networks, Madison Square Garden and the arena's professional 
sports franchise tenants, the New York Knicks and New York Rangers.[1][2] 
Following the purchase, SportsChannel Chicago abruptly cancelled its daily 
sports news program The SportsChannel Report on August 10, resulting in 
the layoffs of ten staffers (including the program's veteran anchors Jim 
Blaney, Steve Kashul and Dyrol Joyner). That October, the channel launched 
Fox Sports Tonight, a similarly formatted sports news program focusing 
on local sports, intended to complement Fox Sports Net's national program 
Fox Sports News.[3][4] At that time, the channel relocated its production 
and office facilities to a new facility in the Apparel Center, at 350 North 
Orleans Street in the Near North Side area.[5] The new joint venture formed 
between News Corporation, Cablevision and Liberty Media, National Sports 
Partners, began a gradual rebranding of the SportsChannel networks that 
Cablevision had previously controlled into owned-and-operated outlets of 
Fox Sports Net; as such, SportsChannel Chicago was rebranded as Fox Sports 
Chicago in January 1998. The channel was then rebranded as Fox Sports Net 
Chicago in 2000, as part of a collective brand modification of the FSN 
networks under the "Fox Sports Net" banner. Fox Sports Tonight later evolved 
into the Chicago Sports Report in 2001, as part of a groupwide expansion 
of regional news programs across the Fox Sports Networks to compliment 
the National Sports Report. Around that time, Fox Sports Net Chicago also 
began serving as the production and origination hub for the Ohio Sports 
Report and Bay Area Sports Report news programs (all of which were 50% 
owned by Cablevision through its Rainbow Sports subsidiary) for sister 
networks Fox Sports Ohio and Fox Sports Net Bay Area. In 2004, the channel 
shortened its name to FSN Chicago, through the networks' de-emphasis of 
the "Fox Sports Net" brand. In December 2003, Reinsdorf, Rocky Wirtz and 
the Tribune Company – the respective owners of the Bulls, White Sox, Blackhawks 
and Cubs – decided to end their cable television agreement with FSN Chicago, 
stripping the network of broadcast rights to all of the professional sports 
teams in the Chicago area. All three decided to enter into a partnership 
with Comcast to form a new regional sports network, Comcast SportsNet Chicago, 
which launched on October 1, 2004.[6][7] The move led many cable and satellite 
providers in northeastern Illinois and northwest Indiana to drop the network. 
Without any local professional sports coverage remaining, FSN Chicago was 
left with national programming distributed by Fox Sports Net, events from 
some minor local and semi-professional teams and Midwestern outdoors programs 
of limited interest to Chicago area viewers. In February 2005, Cablevision 
acquired full ownership of Fox Sports Chicago and FSN New York, and a 50% 
interest in Fox Sports New England (with Comcast retaining its existing 
50% stake) in an asset swap that also involved the sale of News Corporation's 
interest in Madison Square Garden and the arena's NBA and NHL team tenants 
in exchange for Cablevision's interest in FSN Ohio and FSN Florida.[8] 
FSN Chicago ceased operations on June 23, 2006;[9] Comcast SportsNet Chicago 
subsequently moved its operations into the Orleans Street facility formerly 
occupied by FSN Chicago, and acquired the rights to broadcast FSN's nationally 
distributed programs. The set formerly used by the Chicago Sports Report 
was purchased by NBC affiliate WREX-TV in Rockford for use as the station's 
main news set. The Orleans Street facility has since also become the homebase 
