Nippon Professional Baseball (1950–present) The Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks 
(福岡ソフトバンクホークス, Fukuoka Sofutobanku Hōkusu?) are a Japanese baseball team 
based in Fukuoka, Fukuoka Prefecture. The team was bought on January 28, 
2005 by the SoftBank Corporation. The team was formerly known as the Nankai 
Hawks and was based in Osaka. In 1988, Daiei bought the team from Osaka's 
Nankai Electric Railway Co., and its headquarters were moved to Fukuoka 
(which had been without NPB baseball since the Lions departed in 1979). 
The Daiei Hawks won the Pacific League championship in 1999, 2000 and 2003 
and won the Japan Series in 1999, 2003, and as the Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks, 
the 2011 Japan Series, 2014 Japan Series and 2015 Japan Series. The franchise's 
original name was Nankai when it joined the Japanese Baseball League (JBL) 
in 1938, with the name originating with the Nankai Electric Railway Co., 
which owned the team at the time. The team's name was changed to Kinki 
Nippon[1] in mid-1944 as it received partial sponsorship from Kinki Nippon 
Railway. After the 1945 hiatus in the JBL due to the Pacific War, in 1946 
the team's name was changed to Kinki Great Ring[2] and the team won the 
JBL championship. Throughout the name changes the club underwent between 
1938 and 1946, Nankai Electric Railway Co. (in one form or another) maintained 
ownership of the franchise. In mid-1947, Nankai settled upon its current 
moniker. The Nankai Hawks (南海ホークス?). Under player-manager Kazuto Tsuruoka 
(known as Kazuto Yamamoto from 1946–1958)[3] they became one of the most 
successful franchises through the first two decades of the Pacific League's 
existence, taking two Japan Series championships and 10 Pacific League 
pennants. (Kazuto managed the team from 1946–1968, becoming the full-time 
manager after his retirement as a player in 1952.)[3][4] In 1964, the Hawks 
team sent pitching prospect Masanori Murakami and two other young players 
to the San Francisco Giants single-A team Fresno as a baseball "exchange 
student". On September 1 of that year Murakami became the first Japanese 
player to play in Major League Baseball[5] when he appeared on the mound 
for the San Francisco Giants. Disputes over the rights to his contract 
eventually led to the 1967 United States – Japanese Player Contract Agreement. 
Murakami returned to the Hawks in 1966, playing for them through 1974. 
He contributed to the team's league championship in 1973. The team fell 
on hard times between 1978 and 1988, finishing no better than 4th place 
out of the 6 teams in the Pacific League in any year in the period. The 
team witnessed its fan base diminish as a result of the prolonged period 
of poor play, with attendance dropping and the club dealing with reduced 
profits. The change in the club's financial performance led Nankai Electric 
Railway to question the value of maintaining ownership, even after considering 
the value the team represented as an advertising tool. The company's board 
of directors and union leadership put pressure on Den Kawakatsu, then president 
of Nankai Railway and owner of the team, to sell the team, which he refused 
to do. However, Mr. Kawakatsu, who represented the most ardent supporter 
of Nankai's ownership of the Hawks, died in 1988, and the team was sold 
to the Daiei Corporation to become the Fukuoka Daiei Hawks after the 1988 
season. Katsuya Nomura, Mutsuo Minagawa, Hiromitsu Kadota, and Chusuke 
Kizuka are among the more notable franchise players that were active during 
the Nankai era. After the franchise was acquired by department store chain 
Daiei, Inc., the Hawks were flush with new funds and a new home city in 
Fukuoka, the capital of the eponymous prefecture on Kyushu Island. However, 
in spite of those efforts of the new ownership, the Hawks still were usually 
in the cellar of the Pacific League, and continued to be at the bottom 
half of the league until 1997. The Hawks front office adopted a strategy 
of drafting and developing younger players, supplemented by free agent 
signings, a policy overseen by team president Ryuzo Setoyama and his aides. 
Setoyama's most brilliant moves were the hiring of Sadaharu Oh to take 
the reins of manager, a title he would hold until 2008 before he moved 
into the general manager's position. Oh replaced then-manager Rikuo Nemoto, 
who was named team president and held that position until his death in 
1999. Also tapped was Akira Ishikawa, a little-known former player, who 
was tasked with bringing in talented amateurs. He brought in the likes 
of current Hanshin Tigers catcher Kenji Johjima, Kazumi Saitoh, Nobuhiko 
Matsunaka, future Chicago White Sox and current Chiba Lotte Marines infielder 
Tadahito Iguchi, shortstop Munenori Kawasaki, and future team captain Hiroki 
Kokubo. Supplementing the amateur signings were some free-agent acquisitions, 
most of them former Seibu stars from their 1980's championship teams. Among 
them were infielder Hiromichi Ishige, immensely popular outfielder and 
current manager Koji Akiyama, and ace left-handed pitcher Kimiyasu Kudoh. 
These moves (and a few unpopular cost-cutting measures) helped to make 
the Hawks gradually more competitive with each passing year, and in 1999, 
the team finally broke through. That season, Daiei made their first Japan 
Series appearance since 1973, and defeated the Chunichi Dragons in five 
games, giving them their first championship since 1964. Kudoh was dominant 
in his Game 1 start (complete game, 13 strikeouts), and Akiyama was named 
Series MVP. The following year, the Hawks again made the Japan Series, 
but this time lost to the powerful Yomiuri Giants in six games. Despite 
the shaky financial ground that Daiei was on thanks to their rampant expansion 
in bubble-era Japan, the team continued to be competitive. The team won 
their second Japan Series in five years, defeating the popular Hanshin 
Tigers in seven games in the 2003 Japan Series, an exciting series in which 
the home team won every game. In 2001, American Karl "Tuffy" Rhodes, playing 
for the Kintetsu Buffaloes, hit 55 home runs with several games left, equaling 
Hawks' manager Sadaharu Oh's single-season home run record. The Buffaloes 
played a weekend series against the Oh-managed Hawks late in the season, 
and Rhodes was intentionally walked during each at-bat of the series. Video 
footage showed Hawks' catcher Kenji Johjima grinning as he caught the intentional 
balls. Oh denied any involvement and Hawks battery coach Yoshiharu Wakana 
stated that the pitchers acted on his orders, saying, "It would be distasteful 
to see a foreign player break Oh's record." Rhodes completed the season 
with 55 home runs. League commissioner Hiromori Kawashima denounced the 
Hawks' behavior as "unsportsmanlike." Hawks pitcher Keisaburo Tanoue went 
on record saying that he wanted to throw strikes to Rhodes and felt bad 
about the situation.[6][7] In 2002, Venezuelan Alex Cabrera hit 55 home 
runs with five games left in the season, with several of those to be played 
against Oh's Hawks. Oh told his pitchers to throw strikes to Cabrera, but 
most of them ignored his order and threw balls well away from the plate. 
After the game, Oh stated, "If you're going to break the record, you should 
do it by more than one. Do it by a lot."[7] In the wake of the most recent 
incident involving Cabrera, ESPN listed Oh's single-season home run record 
as #2 on its list of "The Phoniest Records in Sports."[8] Daiei Inc had 
been under financial pressure to sell its 60% stake in the team over the 
previous few years, with reports in 2003 suggesting the company would sell 
the team and the Fukuoka Dome. Daiei attempted to hold on to the team and 
held discussions with its primary lenders, including UFJ Bank, to see if 
it could find a way to retain the team, but ultimately the sale went through 
to SoftBank in January 2005. The Hawks continued their winning ways after 
the sale of the team to SoftBank. Following the sale, the Hawks represented 
one of the richest teams in Japan, with a player core still intact from 
the last years of the Daiei era. Particularly strong was the team's starting 
pitching behind Saitoh, Tsuyoshi Wada, Nagisa Arakaki, and Toshiya Sugiuchi. 
In 2005, the Hawks finished in first place during the regular season, but 
fell to the eventual Japan Series champions, the Chiba Lotte Marines in 
the second stage of the Climax Series. In 2006, a dramatic pennant race 
led to an even more exciting playoff run that ended in the Sapporo Dome 
at the hands of the eventual Japan Series Champions, the Hokkaido Nippon 
Ham Fighters. Team manager Sadaharu Oh missed most of the 2006 season due 
to stomach cancer. The Hawks' 2007 season was plagued by injuries and general 
ineffectiveness and inconsistency, leading to another 3rd-place finish 
and first-stage exit in the playoffs at the hands of the Marines. In 2008, 
though various injuries still affected the Hawks' bench (especially the 
bullpen), the club claimed its first Interleague title in June, winning 
a tiebreaker against the Hanshin Tigers. However, injuries caught up with 
them in the final month of the season, and the Hawks finished in last place 
with a 54–74–2 record. The finish represented their worst since 1996. At 
the end of the 2008 season, Oh announced his retirement, and former Hawk 
and fan favorite Koji Akiyama was named as Oh's successor. In 2009, the 
team cracked the playoffs once again on the backs of breakout seasons from 
surging starting pitcher D. J. Houlton, outfielder Yuya Hasegawa, Rookie 
of the Year Tadashi Settsu and another stellar season from ace Sugiuchi. 
However, the team still was unable to get out of the first stage, as the 
Tohoku Rakuten Golden Eagles ousted the Hawks in a 2-game sweep. The Hawks 
finally reclaimed the Pacific League regular season title in 2010 after 
a seven-year wait. The title came after a see-saw season in which the team 
recovered several times after extended losing streaks. Starting pitcher 
Wada, back from injury through much of the previous two seasons, was, along 
with fellow ace Sugiuchi, at his best. Wada set career highs in wins and 
games started. The reliable "SBM" relieving trio of Settsu, Brian Falkenborg, 
and Mahara limited opponent offenses late in games. The bullpen also benefited 
from the emergence of Keisuke Kattoh and Masahiko Morifuku, with the latter 
blossoming in the second half of the season. The Hawks offense was largely 
composed of role players who seemed to take turns having big games and 
off days, and it was the team's speed that drove the team as the Hawks 
led the league in stolen bases in the regular season with 148, well ahead 
of their nearest challenger, who had 116. Yuichi Honda stole 59 bases while 
Kawasaki stole 30. However, despite putting forward a strong group, the 
Hawks failed to make it to the Japan Series, losing to the Lotte Marines 
in six games in the Climax Series despite having a 3–1 series lead. SoftBank 
won the Pacific League again in 2011, with a dominating season on all fronts. 
The offense was bolstered further by the acquisition of former Yokohama 
BayStars outfielder Seiichi Uchikawa, who led the league in batting in 
2011. Pitching from Sugiuchi, Wada and an excellent bounce-back season 
from Houlton also helped propel the team to the best record in NPB. After 
sweeping the Saitama Seibu Lions in the Pacific League Climax Series, the 
Hawks took on the Chunichi Dragons to win the Japan Series, a rematch of 
the 1999 Japan Series. The Dragons pushed SoftBank to the full seven games, 
but the Hawks shut out the Dragons 3–0 in the seventh game to win their 
first Japan Series since 2003. The 2012 season started with losses for 
the Hawks. During the off season, they lost their star starters Tsuyoshi 
Wada (to the Baltimore Orioles), Toshiya Sugiuchi and D.J. Houlton (to 
Yomiuri Giants) through free agency. All star shortstop Munenori Kawasaki 
also left the team for the Seattle Mariners. Closer Takahiro Mahara would 
sit out the season through injury. To compensate for these losses, the 
team acquired outfielder Wily Mo Peña and starter Brad Penny from the MLB, 
in addition to starter Kazuyuki Hoashi from Seibu Lions. However, of the 
3 major signings, only Peña made regular contributions. Hoashi was injured 
in his first regular season start and did not rejoin the team for the rest 
of the season. Penny was in the downward spiral of his career and started 
only 1 game for the Hawks before being released. The team had to deal with 
their off season losses to their pitching staff from within the organization. 
Settsu was elevated to the team's ace, while young pitchers such as Kenji 
Otonari and Hiroki Yamada were given bigger roles. Nagisa Arakaki returned 
from long term injury to join the rotation. However, new closer Falkenborg 
had to sit out most of the season through injury, eventually handing over 
the role to Morifuku. Arakaki could not regain his former numbers. In the 
end, the losses could not be mitigated. The team could only finish third 
in the Pacific League regular season and eventually lost out to the Nippon 
Ham Fighters in the P.L. Climax Series Final Stage. The bright spark of 
the season came from rookie starter Shota Takeda, who went 8-1 with an 
ERA of 1.07. In 2014 the Hawks won the Japan Series. They won for a second 
consecutive season in 2015, with outfielder Yuki Yanagita winning league 
MVP and the batting title. Sadaharu Oh's 89 was originally planned to be 
retired or honored after his retirement, but Oh made clear his preference 
to give the number to his successor. Ultimately, however, the man who replaced 
him as manager of the Hawks, Akiyama, declined to wear the number on the 
grounds that the honor of bearing it would be too great so shortly after 
Oh's departure. Instead, Akiyama wore the number 81. Hawks has the largest 
number of mascots in NPB, the Hawk family. The current family members since 
