Fullerton Union High School is a public high school located in the Orange 
County, California city of Fullerton, United States operated by the Fullerton 
Joint Union High School District. In 1893 a special election was held to 
create Fullerton Union High School. The school's first classroom, a rented 
room on the second floor of the Fullerton Elementary School building, was 
adequate to house the eight pupils, which constituted the first year's 
enrollment and the 32 books which made up the library. The high school 
was the second in Orange County. In 1908, FUHS's enrollment was increasing 
at the rate of 18 percent a year. To accommodate the growth, the school 
was moved to new quarters on West Commonwealth Avenue, an area now known 
as Amerige Park. School enrollment continued to grow and within two years 
a new polytechnic building was built to ease the overcrowding. But on November 
17, 1910, the day before it could be occupied, the older FUHS building 
burned to the ground. FUHS was housed in the polytechnic building and four 
tents that year. After the fire, the school's trustees debated the best 
location for rebuilding. The district owned the ground on which the polytechnic 
building stood, but the campus was small, and school work was disrupted 
by the numerous Santa Fe trains that roared by each day. In 1911, the present 
site was purchased one block east of Harbor (Spadra) Boulevard. A walnut 
orchard was removed prior to building, and the former site was sold to 
the City of Fullerton for use as a park. The school's facilities have changed 
over the years to meet educational and community needs. Plummer Auditorium 
was built in 1930-32 and its original ironwork, which was made by students 
on the campus, was kept when Plummer was refurbished and remodeled to meet 
earthquake standards in 1972 (the first class to use the auditorium for 
Baccalaureate was the Class of 1972). Since then the stadium, locker rooms, 
and the agriculture complex have been rebuilt. The latest replacement was 
the swimming pool and the science building. In 2009 a new building housing 
many new classrooms including several new computer driven classrooms was 
opened. Renovations of Plummer Auditorium were completed in 1993. It included 
new lighting, audio and dressing room upgrades. Air conditioning and an 
orchestra lift was added as well. The Charles Kassler fresco "Pastoral 
California" was uncovered and completely restored in 1997. The school provides 
opportunities for students to be involved in Honors, Advanced Placement 
(AP), and International Baccalaureate (IB) courses.[2] Fullerton Union 
is also well known for its Academy of the Arts, established to give high 
school students the chance to learn and excel in several Arts related programs.[citation 
needed] Fullerton's sports teams are known as the Indians, and are members 
of the California Interscholastic Federation's Southern Section. Many of 
