Fuzzball is a bat-and-ball street game related to baseball, usually formed 
as a pick-up game, and played in various areas of the United States (especially 
St. Louis, but also in Chicago where it is called "strikeout", Florida, 
and South Carolina). The equipment consists of a bat and a tennis ball 
that has had its outer layer burned or worn off.[1][2] The rules come from 
baseball and are modified to fit the situation, i.e. whether it is played 
indoors or outside. Fuzzball can be played by as few as two players; outside 
of leagues in St. Louis, the Bevo Area Fuzzball League and the St. Louis 
Metro Fuzzball League, it exists as a pickup game, which has been successfully 
transplanted to "players leagues" which play a quasi-legal, quasi-outlaw 
version in Philadelphia and Northern California (San Jose and Santa Cruz, 
specifically). There are also fully official organized leagues for indoor 
fuzzball in St. Louis.[3] Interest in the game was waning, however, at 
the turn of the century: by 2004, most serious players were in their 40's, 
with a decreasing number of new players becoming interested.[2] Many St. 
Louis locals consider fuzzball to be a minor league training ground for 
future corkball players.[1] Fuzzball developed from the forms of bottlecaps 
and corkball that were played in St. Louis in the 1920s and 30's.[3] Summit 
Fuzzball League rules follow the same general rule structure as baseball, 
with the finer details varying considerably by region. The one consistent 
difference between fuzzball and baseball is the use of a tennis ball instead 
of a baseball. Players may or may not use a baseball glove while fielding. 
Indoor fuzzball is usually played inside of a large net with no base runners. 
Outdoor fuzzball can be played either on paved school playgrounds (typically 
marked off for kickball) or on a baseball or softball field. Serious players 
will also use a cigarette lighter or a blowtorch to burn the felt off of 
the ball, thereby making it much faster when pitched. Bats may consist 
of broom handles,[3] baseball bats, corkball bats, or official fuzzball 
bats, such as those made by Markwort Sporting Goods of St. Louis, Missouri. 
Markwort also makes an official fuzzball for use in games. The batter may 
be out after one, two or three strikes. The batter may also walk after 
three, four, or five balls. If a batter is hit by a pitch, it can be worth 
two balls or the strike count may be reset. Once again, this depends on 
regional rules. If the ball lands behind a fence, on a roof, on a porch, 
or breaks a window far away it is usually ruled a home run. In some versions 
of fuzzball where space is a concern, hits are decided by how far the ball 
travels, in which case there is no running (similar to corkball).[3] If 
small teams play, "ghost runners" can take the place of an on-base player 
who must go back to home plate to bat once more. "Ghost runners" move the 
same amount of bases as the batter gets on a hit. For example, if a "ghost 
runner" is on second base and the batter hits a double, the "ghost runner" 
passes home plate and scores a run. Game length (including innings and 
outs-per-inning) also varies considerably from region to region. A popular 
version of fuzzball played in the western Summit, NJ suburbs involves nine 
