FX is a Canadian English-language Category B cable and satellite television 
specialty channel that is owned as a partnership between Rogers Media, 
a division of Rogers Communications (which owns a controlling 66.64% interest 
and serves as managing partner) and the FX Networks subsidiary of 21st 
Century Fox (which owns the remaining 33.36%). Based on the U.S. cable 
network of the same name, FX is devoted primarily to scripted dramas and 
comedies.[1] In February 2011, Rogers Media was granted approval by the 
Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) to launch 
a television channel called Highwire, described as "a national, English-language 
Category 2 specialty programming service devoted to the entire genre of 
action and adventure, including selections from crime fiction, epic and 
heroic drama."[2] The channel was launched on October 31, 2011 as FX Canada 
in standard and high definition.[3] The channel was wholly owned by Rogers 
Media at its launch. However, on December 16, 2011, the CRTC approved an 
application for FX Networks to purchase a 20% interest in the channel's 
direct parent company, and a 16.7% interest in the holding company owning 
the other 80%, for an overall ownership interest of 33.6% (with Rogers 
retaining the remainder).[4] On April 15, 2013, it was announced that FX 
Canada had acquired the exclusive domestic broadcast rights to air future 
episodes of soap operas All My Children and One Life to Live, which were 
rebooted through Hulu and iTunes in the United States. However, on May 
17, 2013, almost three weeks since the premieres, and a day after Prospect 
Park announced a schedule change for both series that reduced each week's 
broadcasts to two episodes (from four), All My Children and One Life to 
Live were abruptly pulled from FX Canada's schedule. They were replaced 
by reruns of 30 Rock. Rogers had tentatively planned to launch a Canadian 
version of FXX, the U.S. spinoff channel launched in September 2013 to 
which several FX comedy series moved.[5] In the meantime, series that have 
moved to FXX continued to air on FX Canada. Originally planned for January 
2014, the Canadian version of FXX eventually launched on April 1, 2014.[6] 
In October 2014, nearly three years after its launch, Bell TV reached a 
deal to carry FX Canada and FXX; they were added to its satellite and Fibe 
TV lineups on October 10, 2014. Bell was one of the most prominent television 
providers not to carry FX Canada - a fact regularly noted in promotions 
for the channel on its sibling networks. It was reported that the channel's 
incorporation into the revamped Hockey Night in Canada was an impetus for 
the deal.[7] In January 2015, the channel began referring to itself as 
FX, in addition to adopting the current logo used worldwide.[8] As part 
of the agreement between Rogers Media and Fox, any new original series 
produced for the flagship FX channel in the United States by its co-owned 
studios, FXP and 20th Century Fox Television, will air on FX Canada.[9] 
This means that while the channel airs most programming from FX, it does 
not carry all original series that premiered prior to 2011. For example, 
It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia didn't air on the channel until mid-2013, 
and FX Canada only had second window rights to Sons of Anarchy, as premiere 
rights to each season had been previously sold to Super Channel. It also 
did not carry certain series produced by other studios, such as Anger Management 
(produced by Lionsgate) or Justified (primarily produced by Sony Pictures 
Television). In most of these cases, broadcast rights were purchased by 
other Canadian broadcasters. As of 2016, the only in-production FX original 
series not airing on the channel is the animated series Archer, which has 
long aired in Canada on Teletoon as part of its adult nighttime block. 
Additionally, FX Canada serves as an overflow channel for Sportsnet; its 
license dictates that it can air up to 10% sports programming. During the 
2013 Major League Baseball season, FX Canada aired six pre-season Toronto 
Blue Jays games. The channel was made available as a free preview to providers 
during this period as well.[10] During the 2014-15 season, FX Canada occasionally 
aired NHL games on Saturday nights as part of Rogers' Hockey Night in Canada. 
They primarily simulcasted all-U.S. matchups from American regional sports 
