Gabriel Howard Paul (January 4, 1910 – April 26, 1998) was an American 
executive in Major League Baseball who, between 1951 and 1984, served as 
general manager of the Cincinnati Reds, Houston Colt .45s, Cleveland Indians 
and New York Yankees. He also served as president of the Indians and Yankees. 
Born in Rochester, New York, and of Jewish descent,[1][2][3] Paul got his 
start in the game at age ten as a batboy for the Rochester Tribe of the 
AA International League and later attended Monroe High School.[4] Eventually, 
he worked for Warren Giles, who became business manager of the renamed 
Rochester Red Wings when the St. Louis Cardinals purchased the team in 
1928. When Giles took over the front office of the Cincinnati Reds in 1937, 
Paul became the Reds’ traveling secretary. After returning from military 
service during World War II, Paul was promoted to vice president. In October 
1951, when Giles was elected president of the National League, Paul took 
his old mentor's job as Cincinnati general manager. The Reds were then 
a losing outfit with a weak farm system. Paul rebuilt the minor league 
department and began to scout and sign African-American and Latin American 
players. The Reds broke the baseball color line on April 17, 1954, when 
Chuck Harmon and Nino Escalera made their debuts. They were the seventh 
of the eight National League clubs to integrate. In 1956 at age 20, Frank 
Robinson, the club's first black superstar, had the best rookie season 
in NL history, hitting 38 home runs, scoring a league-leading 122 runs, 
and compiling an OPS of .936. In 1958, Cincinnati unveiled another star 
African-American player, rookie outfielder Vada Pinson, who would enjoy 
a long MLB career and, with Robinson, help lead the 1961 Reds to the National 
League pennant. Paul also signed a working agreement with the Havana Sugar 
Kings of the Triple-A International League, giving the team access to top 
Cuban talent such as shortstop Leo Cárdenas and future "Big Red Machine" 
icon Tony Pérez. In addition, the Reds produced Cuban stars such as outfielder 
Tony González, second baseman Cookie Rojas, and pitcher Mike Cuellar—among 
many others—who made their mark with other MLB clubs. The Cincinnati team 
of the mid-1950s—then temporarily nicknamed the Redlegs because of the 
anti-communism of the time—captured the country's imagination as a team 
of sluggers. With a lineup that included Robinson, Ted Kluszewski, Gus 
Bell, Wally Post and Ed Bailey, the 1956 Redlegs hit 221 home runs and 
won 91 games to finish third, only two games behind the pennant-winning 
Brooklyn Dodgers. Paul was named Executive of the Year by The Sporting 
News. The following year, Baseball Commissioner Ford Frick had to intervene 
when Cincinnati fans "stuffed" the ballot box and elected a virtually all-Redleg 
starting lineup to the National League All-Star team. The Reds failed to 
improve upon their 1956 mark during Paul's tenure, however, and after a 
disappointing 1960 season, Paul resigned to become the first general manager 
of the expansion Houston Colt .45s.[5] Paul brought to Houston fellow Cincinnati 
executives Tal Smith, Bill Giles and Paul Florence and began to lay the 
foundation for the team's 1962 debut, but he did not stay long. He clashed 
with majority owner Roy Hofheinz and reportedly had a standing offer from 
the Cleveland Indians to take over their front office, following the resignation 
of Frank Lane.[6] So in April 1961, Paul returned to Ohio to assume command 
of the Indians, leaving the Colt .45s almost 12 months before the team 
ever played an official game. The Indians of the early 1960s were a middle-echelon 
team in the American League that had contended for a pennant only twice 
(1955 and 1959) since its 1954 AL title. It had lost its most popular gate 
attraction, slugger Rocky Colavito, in a Lane-engineered trade just before 
the 1960 season and the young players summoned from the team's farm system 
failed to capture the city's imagination. On November 26, 1962, Paul became 
a part-owner, as well as president, treasurer and general manager, but 
the Indians continued to tread water in the standings and struggled badly 
at the gate. On multiple occasions, the Indians were rumored to be headed 
elsewhere. In 1964, the club's board of directors authorized Paul to investigate 
transferring the Indians to one of three cities: Oakland, Dallas or Seattle. 
But a new stadium lease with the city of Cleveland staved off the move.[6] 
On the field, Paul brought to Cleveland pitching stars Sam McDowell and 
Luis Tiant and, in 1965, reacquired Colavito in a bid to win more games, 
and more fans. But, after an encouraging 1968 season, the Indians plummeted 
in the standings. For a while, Paul gave up his general manager title to 
field manager Alvin Dark in an effort to change the club's fortunes. Paul's 
tenure with the Indians is described in detail in the book "Portrait of 
a Franchise: An Intimate Look at Cleveland Indians Baseball During the 
Rockin' Sixties" by Doug Kurkul. Finally, in 1973, Paul sold his interest 
in the Indians and became part of Steinbrenner's Cleveland-based syndicate 
that purchased the Yankees from CBS.[7] Installed as club president that 
year after the April departure of minority owner E. Michael Burke and the 
year-end election of GM/interim president Lee MacPhail to the presidency 
of the American League, Paul helped Steinbrenner rebuild the once-proud 
Yankees into a champion. In 1974, Paul was selected MLB Executive of the 
Year for the second time in his career, as the Yankees finished second 
in the American League East Division and improved by nine games from the 
1973 edition. Then, the Bombers won their first American League pennant 
in 12 years in 1976 and first world championship since 1962 the following 
year. The key to re-building the Yankees was a series of trades that Paul 
pulled off. Paul raised some eyebrows among Cleveland fans because less 
than two months before he became a part of the group purchasing the Yankees 
and assumed the role of President for the Yankees, he dealt All-Star third 
baseman Graig Nettles and Gerry Moses to the New York Yankees for a group 
of journeyman players. Then he acquired in succession: Chris Chambliss, 
Dick Tidrow and Oscar Gamble from his former team, the Indians; Lou Piniella 
from the Royals; Mickey Rivers and Ed Figueroa from the Angels; Willie 
Randolph, Ken Brett and Dock Ellis from the Pirates; and Bucky Dent from 
the White Sox. He also signed Catfish Hunter and Reggie Jackson as free 
agents. Paul, whose nickname was the "Smiling Cobra" for his expertise 
in trades,[8] had his enemies, among them influential Cleveland radio host 
Pete Franklin, who said of Paul, "Gabe was a master at working the room, 
of getting to know everybody and knowing where all the bodies are. The 
thing about Gabe was that while he did work for an owner, he always found 
a way to get a piece of the team himself. Then it became damn near impossible 
to fire him because he was part-owner. Gabe's greatest gift was the ability 
to take care of Gabe."[9] The Yankees were able to beat the Los Angeles 
Dodgers in the 1977 World Series, Paul's only World Series victory as a 
general manager. The 1977 season, however, was Paul's last in the Bronx. 
After Al Rosen was brought into the Bronx as a senior executive in fall 
1977—crowding Paul's authority much as Paul's presence did Mike Burke—Paul 
returned to Cleveland as president of the Indians in 1978. But he could 
never rouse the Tribe from their doldrums. Paul retired in 1984 after almost 
60 years in the game. He died at the age of 88 in Tampa, Florida.[10] Paul 
was played by actor Kevin Conway in the 2007 ESPN television mini-series 
