Gaelic games are sports played in Ireland under the auspices of the Gaelic 
Athletic Association (GAA). Gaelic football and hurling are the two main 
games. Other games organised by the GAA include Gaelic handball and rounders. 
Women's versions of hurling and football are also played: camogie, organised 
by the Camogie Association of Ireland, and ladies' Gaelic football, organised 
by the Ladies' Gaelic Football Association. While women's versions are 
not organised by the GAA, they are closely associated with it.[1] Today, 
Gaelic games are the most popular games in Ireland in terms of supporter 
attendances at senior games.[2] Despite an economic downturn, attendances 
in 2009 were up 11% on 2008.[3] Gaelic football is played by teams of 15 
on a rectangular grass pitch with H-shaped goals at each end. The primary 
object is to score by driving the ball through the goals, which is known 
as a goal, or by kicking the ball over the bar, which is known as a point. 
The team with the highest score at the end of the match wins.[4] The female 
version of the game is known as ladies' Gaelic football and is very similar 
to the men's game with a few minor rule changes.[5] Hurling is a stick 
and ball game played by teams of 15 on a rectangular grass pitch with H-shaped 
goals at each end. The primary object is to score by driving the ball through 
the goals or putting the ball over the bar and thereby scoring a point. 
Three points is the equivalent of a goal. The team with the highest score 
at the end of the match wins. It is over three thousand years old, and 
is said to be the world's fastest field game, combining skills from lacrosse, 
field hockey, and baseball in a hard-hitting, highly skilled game.[6] The 
female version of the game is known as camogie and is very similar to hurling 
with a few minor rule changes.[7] It was founded in 1832. Gaelic handball 
is a game in which two players use their hands to return a ball against 
a wall. The game is similar to American handball. There are three codes 
of handball; 60x30, 40x20 and One Wall. One Wall handball is the most popular 
international version of handball with it being played in over 30 countries. 
It is hoped[by whom?] that this version of handball will soon become an 
Olympic sport. The sport of handball is governed by GAA Handball in Ireland.[8] 
Rounders is a bat and ball game which is played in Ireland; a similar version 
is played in England. Rounders is the least popular of the GAA Gaelic games 
and is organised by a subdivision of the GAA known as the Rounders Council 
of Ireland. It is similar to softball.[9] Other Gaelic games such as Gaelic 
athletics have nearly or completely died out. When founded the GAA organised 
a number of Gaelic athletics competitions but passed the responsibility 
to the National Athletic and Cycling Association in 1922. Tailteann Games 
