Game design is the art of applying design and aesthetics to create a game 
to facilitate interaction between players for entertainment or for medical, 
educational, or experimental purposes. Game design can be applied both 
to games and, increasingly, to other interactions, particularly virtual 
ones (see gamification). Game design creates goals, rules, and challenges 
to define a sport, tabletop game, casino game, video game, role-playing 
game, or simulation that produces desirable interactions among its participants 
and, possibly, spectators. Academically, game design is part of game studies, 
while game theory studies strategic decision making (primarily in non-game 
situations). Games have historically inspired seminal research in the fields 
of probability, artificial intelligence, economics, and optimization theory. 
Applying game design to itself is a current research topic in metadesign. 
Sports (see history of sports), gambling, and board games are known, respectively, 
to have existed for at least ten thousand, six thousand, and five thousand 
years. Tabletop games played today whose descent can be traced from ancient 
times include chess, go, pachisi, backgammon, mahjong, mancala, and pick-up 
sticks. The rules of these games were not codified until early modern times 
and their features gradually evolved and changed over time, through the 
folk process. Given this, these games are not considered to have had a 
designer or been the result of a design process in the modern sense. After 
the rise of commercial game publishing in the late 19th century, many games 
which had formerly evolved via folk processes became commercial properties, 
often with custom scoring pads or preprepared material. For example, the 
similar public domain games Generala, Yacht, and Yatzy led to the commercial 
game Yahtzee in the mid-1950s. Today, many commercial games, such as Taboo, 
Balderdash, Pictionary, or Time's Up!, are descended from traditional parlour 
games. Adapting traditional games to become commercial properties is an 
example of game design. Similarly, many sports, such as soccer and baseball, 
are the result of folk processes, while others were designed, such as basketball, 
invented in 1891 by James Naismith. Technological advances have provided 
new media for games throughout history. The printing press allowed packs 
of playing cards, adapted from Mahjong tiles, to be mass-produced, leading 
to many new card games. Accurate topographic maps produced as lithographs 
and provided free to Prussian officers helped popularize wargaming. Cheap 
bookbinding (printed labels wrapped around cardboard) led to mass-produced 
board games with custom boards. Inexpensive (hollow) lead figurine casting 
contributed to the development of miniature wargaming. Cheap custom dice 
led to poker dice. Flying discs led to disc golf and Ultimate. Personal 
computers contributed to the popularity of computer games, leading to the 
wide availability of video game consoles and video games. Smart phones 
have led to a proliferation of mobile games. The first games in a new medium 
are frequently adaptations of older games. Pong, one of the first widely 
disseminated video games, adapted table tennis. Later games will often 
exploit distinctive properties of a new medium. Adapting older games and 
creating original games for new media are both examples of game design. 
Game studies or gaming theory is a discipline that deals with the critical 
study of games, game design, players, and their role in society and culture. 
Prior to the late-twentieth century, the academic study of games was rare 
and limited to fields such as history and anthropology. As the video game 
revolution took off in the early 1980s, so did academic interest in games, 
resulting in a field that draws on diverse methodologies and schools of 
thought. These influences may be characterized broadly in three ways: the 
social science approach, the humanities approach, and the industry and 
engineering approach.[1] Broadly speaking, the social scientific approach 
has concerned itself with the question of "What do games do to people?" 
Using tools and methods such as surveys, controlled laboratory experiments, 
and ethnography researchers have investigated both the positive and negative 
impacts that playing games could have on people. More sociologically informed 
research has sought to move away from simplistic ideas of gaming as either 
'negative' or 'positive', but rather seeking to understand its role and 
location in the complexities of everyday life.[2] In general terms, the 
humanities approach has concerned itself with the question of "What meanings 
are made through games?" Using tools and methods such as interviews, ethnographies 
and participant observation, researchers have investigated the various 
roles that videogames play in people's lives and activities together with 
the meaning they assign to their experiences.[3] From an industry perspective, 
a lot of game studies research can be seen as the academic response to 
the videogame industry's questions regarding the products it creates and 
sells. The main question this approach deals with can be summarized as 
"How can we create better games?" with the accompanying "What makes a game 
good?" "Good" can be taken to mean many different things, including providing 
an entertaining and an engaging experience, being easy to learn and play, 
and being innovative and having novel experiences. Different approaches 
to studying this problem have included looking at describing how to design 
games[4][5] and extracting guidelines and rules of thumb for making better 
games[6] Game theory is a study of strategic decision making. Specifically, 
it is "the study of mathematical models of conflict and cooperation between 
intelligent rational decision-makers".[7] An alternative term suggested 
"as a more descriptive name for the discipline" is interactive decision 
theory.[8] The subject first addressed zero-sum games, such that one person's 
gains exactly equal net losses of the other participant or participants.[9] 
Today, however, game theory applies to a wide range of behavioral relations, 
and has developed into an umbrella term for the logical side of decision 
science. The games studied in game theory are well-defined mathematical 
objects. To be fully defined, a game must specify the following elements: 
the players of the game, the information and actions available to each 
player at each decision point, and the payoffs for each outcome. (Rasmusen 
refers to these four "essential elements" by the acronym "PAPI".)[10] A 
game theorist typically uses these elements, along with a solution concept 
of their choosing, to deduce a set of equilibrium strategies for each player 
such that, when these strategies are employed, no player can profit by 
unilaterally deviating from their strategy. These equilibrium strategies 
determine an equilibrium to the game—a stable state in which either one 
outcome occurs or a set of outcomes occur with known probability. Games 
can be characterized by "what the player does."[11] This is often referred 
to as gameplay. Major key elements identified in this context are tools 
and rules that define the overall context of game. Games are often classified 
by the components required to play them (e.g. miniatures, a ball, cards, 
a board and pieces, or a computer). In places where the use of leather 
is well established, the ball has been a popular game piece throughout 
recorded history, resulting in a worldwide popularity of ball games such 
as rugby, basketball, football, cricket, tennis, and volleyball. Other 
tools are more idiosyncratic to a certain region. Many countries in Europe, 
for instance, have unique standard decks of playing cards. Other games 
such as chess may be traced primarily through the development and evolution 
of its game pieces. Many game tools are tokens, meant to represent other 
things. A token may be a pawn on a board, play money, or an intangible 
item such as a point scored. Games such as hide-and-seek or tag do not 
utilise any obvious tool; rather, their interactivity is defined by the 
environment. Games with the same or similar rules may have different gameplay 
if the environment is altered. For example, hide-and-seek in a school building 
differs from the same game in a park; an auto race can be radically different 
depending on the track or street course, even with the same cars. Whereas 
games are often characterized by their tools, they are often defined by 
their rules. While rules are subject to variations and changes, enough 
change in the rules usually results in a "new" game. There are exceptions 
to this in that some games deliberately involve the changing of their own 
rules, but even then there are often immutable meta-rules. Rules generally 
determine turn order, the rights and responsibilities of the players, and 
each player's goals. Player rights may include when they may spend resources 
or move tokens. Common win conditions are being first to amass a certain 
quota of points or tokens (as in Settlers of Catan), having the greatest 
number of tokens at the end of the game (as in Monopoly), or some relationship 
of one's game tokens to those of one's opponent (as in chess's checkmate). 
Most games require multiple players. However, single-player games are unique 
in respect to the type of challenges a player faces. Many games described 
as "single-player" may be termed actually puzzles or recreations. Unlike 
a game with multiple players competing with or against each other to reach 
the game's goal, a one-player game is a battle solely against an element 
of the environment (an artificial opponent), against one's own skills, 
against time, or against chance. Stories told in games may focus on narrative 
elements that can be communicated through the use of mechanics and player 
choice. Narrative plots in games generally have a clearly defined and simplistic 
structure. Mechanical choices on the part of the designer(s) often drastically 
effect narrative elements in the game. However, due to a lack of unified 
and standardized teaching and understanding of narrative elements in games, 
individual interpretations, methods, and terminology vary wildly. Because 
of this, most narrative elements in games are created unconsciously and 
intuitively. However, as a general rule, game narratives increase in complexity 
and scale as player choice or game mechanics increase in complexity and 
scale. One example of this is removing a players ability to directly affect 
the plot for a limited time. This lack of player choice necessitates an 
increase in mechanical complexity, and could be used as a metaphor to symbolize 
depression that is felt by a character in the narrative. A game's tools 
and rules will result in its requiring skill, strategy, luck, or a combination 
thereof, and are classified accordingly. Games of skill include games of 
physical skill, such as wrestling, tug of war, hopscotch, target shooting, 
and stake, and games of mental skill such as checkers and chess. Games 
of strategy include checkers, chess, go, arimaa, and tic-tac-toe, and often 
require special equipment to play them. Games of chance include gambling 
games (blackjack, mah-jongg, roulette, etc.), as well as snakes and ladders 
and rock, paper, scissors; most require equipment such as cards or dice. 
Most games contain two or all three of these elements. For example, American 
football and baseball involve both physical skill and strategy while tiddlywinks, 
poker, and Monopoly combine strategy and chance. Many card and board games 
combine all three; most trick-taking games involve mental skill, strategy, 
and an element of chance, as do many strategic board games such as Risk, 
Settlers of Catan, and Carcassonne. By learning through play[a] children 
can develop social and cognitive skills, mature emotionally, and gain the 
self-confidence required to engage in new experiences and environments.[12] 
Key ways that young children learn include playing, being with other people, 
being active, exploring and new experiences, talking to themselves, communication 
with others, meeting physical and mental challenges, being shown how to 
do new things, practicing and repeating skills and having fun.[13] Play 
develops children's content knowledge and provides children the opportunity 
to develop social skills, competences and disposition to learn.[14] Play-based 
learning is based on a Vygotskian model of scaffolding where the teacher 
pays attention on specific elements of the play activity and provides encouragement 
and feedback on children's learning.[15] When children engage in real-life 
and imaginary activities, play can be challenging in children's thinking.[16] 
To extend the learning process, sensitive intervention can be provided 
with adult support when necessary during play-based learning.[15] A game 
artist is an artist who creates art for one or more types of games. Game 
artists are responsible for all of the aspects of game development that 
call for visual art.[17] Game artists are often noted in role-playing games, 
collectible card games and video games.[18] Game testing, a subset of game 
development, is a software testing process for quality control of video 
games.[19][20][21] The primary function of game testing is the discovery 
and documentation of software defects (aka bugs). Interactive entertainment 
software testing is a highly technical field requiring computing expertise, 
analytic competence, critical evaluation skills, and endurance.[22][23] 
In recent years the field of game testing has come under fire for being 
excessively strenuous and unrewarding, both financially and emotionally.[24] 
Board game design is the development of rules and presentational aspects 
of a board game. When a player takes part in a game, it is the player's 
self-subjection to the rules that creates a sense of purpose for the duration 
of the game.[25] Maintaining the players' interest throughout the gameplay 
experience is the goal of board game design.[26] To achieve this, board 
game designers emphasize different aspects such as social interaction, 
strategy, and competition, and target players of differing needs by providing 
for short versus long-play, and luck versus skill.[26] Beyond this, board 
game design reflects the culture in which the board game is produced. The 
most ancient board games known today are over 5000 years old. They are 
frequently abstract in character and their design is primarily focused 
on a core set of simple rules. Of those that are still played today, games 
like go (c.400BC), mancala (c.700AD), and chess (c.600AD) have gone through 
many presentational and/or rule variations. In the case of chess, for example, 
new variants are developed constantly, to focus on certain aspects of the 
game, or just for variation's sake. Traditional board games date from the 
nineteenth and early twentieth century. Whereas ancient board game design 
was primarily focused on rules alone, traditional board games were often 
influenced by Victorian mores. Academic (e.g. history and geography) and 
moral didacticism were important design features for traditional games, 
and Puritan associations between dice and the Devil meant that early American 
game designers eschewed their use in board games entirely.[27] Even traditional 
games that did use dice, like Monopoly (based on the 1906 The Landlord's 
Game), were rooted in educational efforts to explain political concepts 
to the masses. By the 1930s and 1940s, board game design began to emphasize 
amusement over education, and characters from comic strips, radio programmes, 
and (in the 1950s) television shows began to be featured in board game 
adaptations.[27] Recent developments in modern board game design can be 
traced to the 1980s in Germany, and have led to increased popularity of 
"German-style board games" (also known as "Eurogames" or "designer games"). 
The design emphasis of these board games is to give players meaningful 
choices.[25] This is manifested by eliminating elements like randomness 
and luck to be replaced by skill, strategy, and resource competition, by 
removing the potential for players to fall irreversibly behind in the early 
stages of a game, and by reducing the number of rules and possible player 
options to produce what Alan R. Moon has described as "elegant game design".[25] 
The concept of elegant game design has been identified by The Boston Globe's 
Leon Neyfakh as related to Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi's concept of "flow" 
from his 1990 book, "Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience".[25] Modern 
technological advances have had a democratizing effect on board game design, 
with services like Kickstarter providing designers with essential startup 
capital and tools like 3D printers facilitating the production of game 
pieces and board game prototypes.[28][29] A modern adaptation of figure 
games are miniature wargames like Warhammer 40,000. The design of card 
games is constricted by the type of the deck of cards, like Tarot or the 
four-suited Latin decks. Card games can be played for fun, like Go Fish, 
or for profit like Poker. In Asian cultures, special sets of tiles can 
serve the same function as cards, as in mahjong, a game similar to (and 
thought to be the distant ancestor of) the Western card game rummy. Western 
dominoes games are believed to have developed from Asian tile games in 
the 18th century. Magic: The Gathering was the first collectible card game 
(or "trading card game") in 1993.[citation needed] The line between card 
and board games is not clear-cut, as many card games, such as solitaire, 
involve playing cards to form a "tableau", a spatial layout or board. Many 
board games, in turn, uses specialized decks of cards as randomization 
devices, such as a sub-type of wargames called card-driven wargames. Dice 
games are among the oldest known games and have often been associated with 
gambling. The oldest known dice game is a backgammon set that was discovered 
by archaeologists excavating the site of the Burnt City, which was abandoned 
in 2100 BC.[30] Non-gambling dice games, such as Yatzy, Poker dice, or 
Yahtzee became popular in the mid-20th century. The line between dice and 
board games is not clear-cut, as dice are often used as randomization devices 
in board games, such as Monopoly or Risk, while serving as the central 
drivers of play in games such as Backgammon or Pachisi. Casino game design 
can entail the creation of an entirely new casino game, the creation of 
a variation on an existing casino game, or the creation of a new side bet 
on an existing casino game.[32] Casino game mathematician, Michael Shackleford 
has noted that it is much more common for casino game designers today to 
make successful variations than entirely new casino games.[33] Gambling 
columnist John Grochowski points to the emergence of community-style slot 
machines in the mid-1990s, for example, as a successful variation on an 
existing casino game type.[34] Unlike the majority of other games which 
are designed primarily in the interest of the player, one of the central 
aims of casino game design is to optimise the house advantage and maximise 
revenue from gamblers. Successful casino game design works to provide entertainment 
for the player and revenue for the gambling house. To maximise player entertainment, 
casino games are designed with simple easy-to-learn rules that emphasize 
winning (i.e. whose rules enumerate many victory conditions and few loss 
conditions[33]), and that provide players with a variety of different gameplay 
postures (e.g. card hands).[32] Player entertainment value is also enhanced 
by providing gamblers with familiar gaming elements (e.g. dice and cards) 
in new casino games.[32][33] To maximise success for the gambling house, 
casino games are designed to be easy for croupiers to operate and for pit 
managers to oversee.[32][33] The two most fundamental rules of casino game 
design is that the games must be non-fraudable[32] (including being as 
nearly as possible immune from advantage gambling[33]), and that they must 
mathematically favor the house winning. Shackleford suggests that the optimum 
casino game design should give the house an edge of smaller than 5%.[33] 
The design of role-playing games requires the establishment of setting, 
characters, and basic gameplay rules or mechanics. After a role-playing 
game is produced, additional design elements are often devised by the players 
themselves. In many instances, for example, character creation is left 
to the players. Likewise, the progression of a role-playing game is determined 
in large part by the gamemaster whose individual campaign design may be 
directed by one of several role-playing game theories. There is no central 
core for tabletop role-playing game theory because different people want 
such different things out of the games. Probably the most famous category 
of RPG theory, GNS Theory assumes that people want one of three things 
out of the game – a better, more interestingly challenging game, to create 
a more interesting story, or a better simulation – in other words better 
rules to support worldbuilding. GNS Theory has been abandoned by its creator, 
partly because it neglects emotional investment, and partly because it 
just didn't work properly. There are techniques that people use (such as 
dice pools) to better create the game they want – but with no consistent 
goal or agreement for what makes for a good game there's no overarching 
theory generally agreed on.[citation needed] Sports games are made with 
the same rules as the sport the game portrays.[clarification needed][35][36][37] 
Video game design is a process that takes place in the pre-production phase 
of video game development. In the video game industry, game design describes 
the creation of the content and rules of a video game.[38] The goal of 
this process for the game designer is to provide players with the opportunity 
to make meaningful decisions in relation to playing the game.[38] Elements 
of video game design such as the establishment of fundamental gameplay 
rules provide a framework within which players will operate, while the 
addition of narrative structures provide players with a reason to care 
about playing the game.[39] To establish the rules and narrative, an internally 
consistent game world is created, requiring visual, audio, and programming 
development for world, character, and level design. The amount of work 
that is required to accomplish this often demands the use of a design team 
which may be divided into smaller game design disciplines.[40] In order 
to maintain internal consistency between the teams, a specialized software 
design document known as a "game design document" (and sometimes an even 
broader scope "game bible" document) provides overall contextual guidance 
on ambient mood, appropriate tone, and other less tangible aspects of the 
game world.[41] An important aspect of video game design is human-computer 
interaction[42] and game feel. The first military war games, or Kriegsspiel, 
were designed in Prussia in the 19th century to train staff officers.[43] 
They are also played as a hobby for entertainment. Modern war games are 
designed to test doctrines, strategies and tactics in full scale exercises 
with opposing forces at venues like the NTC, JRTC and the JMRC, involving 
