Game of Shadows: Barry Bonds, BALCO, and the Steroids Scandal that Rocked 
Professional Sports is a bestselling non-fiction book published on March 
23, 2006 and written by Mark Fainaru-Wada and Lance Williams, reporters 
for the San Francisco Chronicle. When Sports Illustrated released excerpts 
from the book on March 7, it generated considerable publicity because the 
book chronicles alleged extensive use of performance-enhancing drugs, including 
several different types of steroids and growth hormones, by San Francisco 
Giants outfielder Barry Bonds. Fainaru-Wada and Williams conducted a two-year 
investigation centering on the BALCO sports nutrition center, its founder 
Victor Conte, and Greg Anderson, who served as a personal trainer (and 
alleged steroid supplier) for Bonds, Gary Sheffield, and Jason Giambi. 
In the book, the authors provide a summary of their sources, which include 
over 200 interviews that were conducted in the course of the investigation 
and over 1000 documents including affidavits from BALCO investigators and 
grand jury testimony. Based on their findings, Fainaru-Wada and Williams 
provide reasons that they believe Bonds and the other athletes decided 
to start taking steroids, and in some cases they provide detailed outlines 
of the specific steroid regimens set up by Anderson. Other athletes are 
implicated in the book, including Benito Santiago, track stars Marion Jones 
and Tim Montgomery, and NFL linebacker Bill Romanowski.[1] The book is 
among the most damaging accounts of reported steroid use by Bonds. According 
to the authors, Bonds began using stanozolol, the same drug for which Ben 
Johnson tested positive after winning the 100 meters at the 1988 Summer 
Olympics, starting in the 1999 season. By 2001, the year Bonds broke Mark 
McGwire's single-season home run record with 73, he was alleged to be using 
the following performance-enhancers: The authors also allege that at other 
times he used: According to the book, Bonds was inspired to use steroids 
after watching McGwire's 1998 home run record chase with Sammy Sosa. He 
began working with Greg Anderson, who would later be hired by the Giants. 
Anderson reportedly received the substances at issue from BALCO. He also 
kept meticulous records of Bonds' program; the authors report that Anderson's 
records indicate that Bonds took up to 20 pills a day and learned to inject 
himself. The book also claimed that the Giants chose not to confront Bonds 
about his change in physical appearance, fearing that they would alienate 
their star slugger, or worse from the team's standpoint, create a drug 
scandal immediately before the opening of their new stadium. Bonds sued 
the authors and publisher of the book over its use of grand jury documents 
and tried to block the publishers and authors from profiting from such 
documents.[2] On March 24, Judge James Warren denied the request, citing 
free speech protections for the authors and that the lawsuit had little 
chance for success.[3] On June 12, 2006, Barry Bonds dropped his lawsuit 
against the authors. Michael Rains, Bonds’ attorney, stated that he dropped 
the lawsuit because the authors had been subpoenaed to be part of an investigation 
into who leaked the secret grand jury transcripts, which is what Bonds 
wanted all along. On May 5, 2006, Mark Fainaru-Wada and Lance Williams 
were subpoenaed to testify before a federal grand jury about how they obtained 
Barry Bonds' leaked grand jury testimony. On May 31, 2006, the authors 
urged U.S. District Judge Martin Jenkins of San Francisco to excuse them 
from testifying. This appeal was supported by affidavits from Washington 
Post reporter Carl Bernstein and Mark Corallo, a former press secretary 
to former Attorney General John Ashcroft. On August 15, 2006, U.S. District 
Judge Jeffrey White ordered Fainaru-Wada and Williams to comply with their 
subpoenas and testify, lest they be held in contempt and incarcerated until 
such time as they decide to talk or if the grand jury term expires. They 
may also be freed from this obligation if a higher court blocks the ruling. 
The reporters have previously stated that they would rather go to jail 
than testify.[4] On December 21, 2006, Yahoo! Sports reported that one 
of Victor Conte's initial defense lawyers, Troy Ellerman, had been targeted 
by the FBI as a possible source of leaks to unspecified members of the 
media during the Barry Bonds probe.[5] On December 22, the Associated Press 
reported that the federal government filed papers on December 21 stating 
the two Chronicle reporters—and authors of Game of Shadows—should receive 
the maximum 18 months imprisonment for allegedly leaking grand jury information. 
On February 14, 2007, Ellerman pleaded guilty to leaking grand jury testimony. 
In the plea agreement, Ellerman will spend two years in jail and pay a 
$250,000 fine. The government also dropped their case against Williams 
