A game seven is the final game of a best of seven series. This game can 
occur in the postseasons for Major League Baseball (MLB) (League Championship 
Series and World Series), the National Basketball Association (NBA) (all 
rounds of the NBA playoffs), and the National Hockey League (NHL) (all 
rounds of the Stanley Cup playoffs). The game is generally played at the 
site of the team holding the home advantage across the series. The nature 
of a best-of-seven series requires that the series be tied at 3 games apiece 
going into Game Seven, such that either team can take the series (advancing 
further in the playoffs or winning the championship) by winning the game. 
Because of this decisive nature, game sevens add an element of drama to 
their sports. Aside from North American sports leagues, game sevens are 
also a fixture in many other sports around the world, mostly in baseball, 
basketball, and ice hockey leagues. Most codes of football do not employ 
a best-of-seven series (or any best-of-x series in general), hence game 
sevens are not played in those leagues. Some playoff rounds (such as MLB's 
current Division Series) are played in a best of five format, such that 
Game Five has similar qualities to those described above, though the suspense 
and drama have less time to build in a shorter series. Furthermore, the 
World Series of 1903, 1919, 1920, and 1921 were played in a best of nine 
format, though none of the four went to a decisive Game Nine. The game 
seven is comparable to a final or to a single game in a single-elimination 
tournament or to a one-game playoff. The game is equivalent to the Super 
Bowl game in the National Football League in that the game's winner is 
the league's champion for the season. In the MLB postseason, Game 7 can 
occur in the League Championship Series and the World Series (the divisional 
series are best of five). In the World Series, there have only been 38 
decisive Game Sevens (of the four World Series that were contested on a 
best-of-nine basis, none went to a Game Nine, though all four included 
a non-decisive Game Seven).[1] World Series that were decided on a game 
seven: All extra inning game 7s involve six franchises, the New York/San 
Francisco Giants, the Washington Senators/Minnesota Twins, Cleveland Indians, 
Boston Red Sox, Florida Marlins and Chicago Cubs. The League Championship 
Series were originally decided best of five from 1969 until 1984. Since 
1985 when both were expanded to best of seven contests, 15 series (6 American, 
9 National) were decided in game seven. League Championship Series that 
were decided on a game seven: In the NHL playoffs, Game 7 can occur in 
all playoff series.[55] In the Stanley Cup Final, the NHL gained complete 
control of the Cup in 1926, and the league instituted the best-of-seven 
series starting in the 1938–39 season. No Stanley Cup Final game 7 ever 
ended with a 1-0 score. The games seven where the Cup was awarded are: 
All playoff rounds in the NBA are now in a best-of-seven series format 
so all rounds can have a maximum of seven games. The NBA Finals has been 
consistently played in a best-of-seven series format since its inception. 
The games seven where the champions were awarded are: Taiwan Series that 
were decided on a game seven: In only eight instances has a team been able 
to come back from being down 0–3 to win a series: Mike Richards and Jeff 
Carter are the only players to have been a part of two comebacks from being 
down 0-3, having played for both the 2010 Philadelphia Flyers and the 2014 
Los Angeles Kings. Additionally, the following nine teams were able to 
force a seventh game in a series after being down 0–3, subsequently losing 
it: The Islanders are the only team to have forced two game sevens after 
