Gary Edward "Garrison" Keillor (born August 7, 1942) is an American author, 
storyteller, humorist, radio actor, voice actor, and radio personality. 
He is known as creator of the Minnesota Public Radio show A Prairie Home 
Companion (called Garrison Keillor's Radio Show in some international syndication), 
which he hosted from 1974 to 2016. Keillor created the fictional Minnesota 
town Lake Wobegon, the setting of many of his books, including Lake Wobegon 
Days and Leaving Home: A Collection of Lake Wobegon Stories. Other creations 
include Guy Noir, a detective voiced by Keillor who appeared in A Prairie 
Home Companion comic skits. Keillor was born in Anoka, Minnesota, the son 
of Grace Ruth (née Denham) and John Philip Keillor, who was a carpenter 
and postal worker.[1][2] His father had English ancestry, partly by way 
of Canada; Keillor's paternal grandfather was from Kingston, Ontario.[3][4] 
His maternal grandparents were Scottish immigrants, from Glasgow.[5][6] 
Keillor’s natal family belonged to the Plymouth Brethren, an Evangelical 
Christian movement that he has since left. In 2006 he told Christianity 
Today that he was attending the St. John the Evangelist Episcopal church 
in Saint Paul, after previously attending a Lutheran church in New York.[7][8] 
Keillor is a member of the Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party;[9] he is six 
feet, three inches (1.9 m) tall.[10] Keillor graduated from Anoka High 
School in 1960 and from the University of Minnesota with a bachelor's degree 
in English in 1966.[11] During college, he began his broadcasting career 
on the student-operated radio station known today as Radio K. Keillor considers 
himself a loner and prefers not to make eye contact with people. Though 
not diagnosed, he also considers himself to be on the high-functioning 
end of the autism spectrum.[12] He spoke about his experiences as an autistic 
person in his keynote address at the 19th Annual Minnesota Autism Conference 
in 2014.[13][14] Keillor has been married three times:[15] Between his 
first and second marriages, he was romantically involved with Margaret 
Moos, who worked as a producer of A Prairie Home Companion.[19] On September 
7, 2009, Keillor was briefly hospitalized after suffering a minor stroke. 
He returned to work a few days later.[20] In his 2004 book Homegrown Democrat: 
A Few Plain Thoughts from the Heart of America, Keillor mentions some of 
his noteworthy ancestors, including Joseph Crandall,[21] who was an associate 
of Roger Williams, who founded Rhode Island and the first American Baptist 
church, and Prudence Crandall, who founded the first African-American women's 
school in America.[22] Garrison Keillor started his professional radio 
career in November 1969 with Minnesota Educational Radio (MER), later Minnesota 
Public Radio (MPR), which today distributes programs under the American 
Public Media (APM) brand. He hosted a weekday drive-time broadcast called 
"A Prairie Home Entertainment", on KSJR FM at St. John's University in 
Collegeville. The show's eclectic music was a major divergence from the 
station's usual classical fare. During this time he submitted fiction to 
The New Yorker magazine, where his first story for that publication, "Local 
Family Keeps Son Happy," appeared in September, 1970.[23] Keillor resigned 
from The Morning Program in February 1971 in protest of what he considered 
interference with his musical programming; as part of his protest, he played 
nothing but the Beach Boys' "Help Me, Rhonda" during one broadcast. When 
he returned to the station in October, the show was dubbed A Prairie Home 
Companion.[24] Keillor has attributed the idea for the live Saturday night 
radio program to his 1973 assignment to write about the Grand Ole Opry 
for The New Yorker, but he had already begun showcasing local musicians 
on the morning show, despite limited studio space. In August 1973 MER announced 
plans to broadcast a Saturday night version of A Prairie Home Companion 
with live musicians.[25][26] A Prairie Home Companion (PHC) debuted as 
an old-style variety show before a live audience on July 6, 1974; it featured 
guest musicians and a cadre cast doing musical numbers and comic skits 
replete with elaborate live sound effects. Today the show is punctuated 
by spoof commercial spots for PHC fictitious sponsors such as Powdermilk 
Biscuits, the Catchup Advisory Board, and the Professional Organization 
of English Majors (POEM);[27] it presents parodic serial melodramas, such 
as The Adventures of Guy Noir, Private Eye and The Lives of the Cowboys. 
Keillor voices Noir, the cowboy Lefty, and other recurring characters, 
and provides lead or backup vocals for some of the show's musical numbers. 
After the show's intermission, Keillor reads clever and often humorous 
greetings to friends and family at home submitted by members of the theater 
audience in exchange for an honorarium. Also in the second half of the 
show, Keillor delivers a monologue called The News from Lake Wobegon, a 
fictitious town based in parts on Keillor's own hometown of Anoka, Minnesota, 
and on Freeport and other small towns in Stearns County, Minnesota, where 
he lived in the early 1970s.[28] Lake Wobegon is a quintessentially Minnesota 
small town characterized by the narrator as "... where all the women are 
strong, all the men are good-looking, and all the children are above average." 
The original PHC ran until 1987, when Keillor ended it to focus on other 
projects. In 1989, he launched a new live radio program from New York City, 
"The American Radio Company of the Air", which had essentially the same 
format as PHC. In 1992, he moved ARC back to St. Paul, and a year later 
changed the name back to A Prairie Home Companion; it has remained a fixture 
of Saturday night radio broadcasting ever since.[29] On a typical broadcast 
of A Prairie Home Companion, Keillor’s name is not mentioned unless a guest 
addresses him by name, although some sketches feature Keillor as his alter 
ego, Carson Wyler. In the closing credits, which Keillor reads, he gives 
himself no billing or credit except "written by Sarah Bellum", a joking 
reference to his own brain. Keillor regularly takes the radio company on 
the road to broadcast from popular venues around the United States; the 
touring production typically features local celebrities and skits incorporating 
local color. In April 2000, he took the program to Edinburgh, Scotland, 
producing two performances in the city's Queen's Hall, which were broadcast 
by BBC Radio. He toured Scotland with the program to celebrate its 25th 
anniversary. (In the UK, Ireland, Australia, and New Zealand, the program 
is known as Garrison Keillor's Radio Show.) Keillor has produced broadcast 
performances similar to PHC but without the "Prairie Home Companion" brand, 
as in his 2008 appearance at the Oregon Bach Festival.[30] He is also the 
host of The Writer's Almanac, which, like PHC, is produced and distributed 
by American Public Media. In a March 2011 interview, Keillor announced 
that he would be retiring from A Prairie Home Companion in 2013;[31] but 
in a December 2011 interview with the Sioux City Journal, Keillor said: 
"The show is going well. I love doing it. Why quit?"[32] During an interview 
on July 20, 2015, Keillor announced his intent to retire from the show 
after the 2015–2016 season, saying, "I have a lot of other things that 
I want to do. I mean, nobody retires anymore. Writers never retire. But 
this is my last season. This tour this summer is the farewell tour."[33] 
Keillor's final episode of the show was recorded live for an audience of 
18,000 fans at the Hollywood Bowl in California on July 1, 2016, [34] and 
broadcast the next day, ending 42 seasons of the show.[35] After the performance, 
President Obama phoned Keillor to congratulate him.[36] The show continued 
on October 15, 2016 with Chris Thile as its host. At age thirteen, Keillor 
adopted the pen name "Garrison" to distinguish his personal life from his 
professional writing.[37] He commonly uses "Garrison" in public and in 
other media. Keillor has been called "[o]ne of the most perceptive and 
witty commentators about Midwestern life" by Randall Balmer in Encyclopedia 
of Evangelicalism.[38] He has written numerous magazine and newspaper articles 
and more than a dozen books for adults as well as children. In addition 
to writing for The New Yorker, he has written for The Atlantic Monthly 
and National Geographic.[39] He has also written for Salon.com and authored 
an advice column there under the name "Mr. Blue." Following a heart operation, 
he resigned on September 4, 2001, his last column being titled "Every dog 
has his day":[40] Illness offers the chance to think long thoughts about 
the future (praying that we yet have one, dear God), and so I have, and 
so this is the last column of Mr. Blue, under my authorship, for Salon. 
Over the years, Mr. Blue's strongest advice has come down on the side of 
freedom in our personal lives, freedom from crushing obligation and overwork 
and family expectations and the freedom to walk our own walk and be who 
we are. And some of the best letters have been addressed to younger readers 
trapped in jobs like steel suits, advising them to bust loose and go off 
and have an adventure. Some of the advisees have written back to inform 
Mr. Blue that the advice was taken and that the adventure changed their 
lives. This was gratifying. So now I am simply taking my own advice. Cut 
back on obligations: Promote a certain elegant looseness in life. Simple 
as that. Winter and spring, I almost capsized from work, and in the summer 
I had a week in St. Mary's Hospital to sit and think, and that's the result. 
Every dog has his day and I've had mine and given whatever advice was mine 
to give (and a little more). It was exhilarating to get the chance to be 
useful, which is always an issue for a writer (What good does fiction do?), 
and Mr. Blue was a way to be useful. Nothing human is beneath a writer's 
attention; the basic questions about how to attract a lover and what to 
do with one once you get one and how to deal with disappointment in marriage 
are the stuff that fiction is made from, so why not try to speak directly? 
And so I did. And now it's time to move on. In 2004 Keillor published a 
collection of political essays, Homegrown Democrat: A Few Plain Thoughts 
from the Heart of America, and in June 2005 he began a column called "The 
Old Scout",[41] which ran at Salon.com and in syndicated newspapers. The 
column went on hiatus in April 2010 "so that he [could] finish a screenplay 
and start writing a novel". Keillor wrote the screenplay for the 2006 movie 
A Prairie Home Companion, directed by Robert Altman. He also appears in 
the movie. On November 1, 2006, Keillor opened an independent bookstore, 
"Common Good Books, G. Keillor, Prop." in the Blair Arcade Building at 
the southwest corner of Selby and N. Western Avenues in the Cathedral Hill 
area in the Summit-University neighborhood of Saint Paul, Minnesota.[42] 
Upon opening the bookstore, Keillor wrote this poem:[43] A bookstore is 
for people who love books and need To touch them, open them, browse for 
a while, And find some common good – that's why we read. Readers and writers 
are two sides of the same gold coin. You write and I read and in that moment 
I find A union more perfect than any club I could join: The simple intimacy 
of being one mind. Here in a book-filled room on a busy street, Strangers 
— living and dead — are hoping to meet. In April 2012, the store moved 
to a new location on Snelling Avenue across from Macalester College in 
the Macalester-Groveland neighborhood.[44] Probably owing in part to his 
distinctive North-Central accent, Keillor is often used as a voice-over 
actor. Some notable appearances include: In 1991, Keillor released Songs 
of the Cat, an album of original and parody songs about cats. In 2005, 
Keillor's attorneys sent a cease-and-desist letter to MNSpeak.com regarding 
their production of a T-shirt bearing the phrase "A Prairie Ho Companion."[47] 
In 2006, after a visit to a United Methodist Church in Highland Park, Texas, 
Keillor created a local controversy with his remarks about the event,[48] 
including the rhetorical suggestion of a connection between event participants 
and supporters of torture and a statement creating an impression of political 
intimidation: "I walked in, was met by two burly security men ... and within 
10 minutes was told by three people that this was the Bushes' church and 
that it would be better if I didn't talk about politics." In response, 
the lecture series coordinator said the two “burly security men” were a 
local policeman and the church’s own security supervisor, both present 
because the agreement with Keillor‘s publisher specified that the venue 
provide security. In addition the coordinator said Mr. Keillor arrived 
at the church, declined an introduction and took the stage without an opportunity 
to mingle with the audience, and so did not know when these warnings might 
have been dispensed. The publicist concurred, saying that Keillor did not 
have contact with any church members or people in the audience before he 
spoke.[49] Supposedly, before Keillor's remarks, participants in the event 
had considered the visit to have been cordial and warm. Asked to respond, 
Keillor stuck to his story, describing the people who advised him not to 
discuss politics and saying that he did not have security guards at other 
stops on the tour.[50] In 2007, Keillor wrote a column that in part criticized 
"stereotypical" gay parents, who he said were "sardonic fellows with fussy 
hair who live in over-decorated apartments with a striped sofa and a small 
weird dog and who worship campy performers."[51] In response to the strong 
reactions of many readers, Keillor said: I live in a small world – the 
world of entertainment, musicians, writers – in which gayness is as common 
as having brown eyes... And in that small world, we talk openly and we 
kid each other a lot. But in the larger world, gayness is controversial... 
and so gay people feel besieged to some degree and rightly so... My column 
spoke as we would speak in my small world, and it was read by people in 
the larger world and thus the misunderstanding. And for that, I am sorry. 
Gay people who set out to be parents can be just as good parents as anybody 
else, and they know that, and so do I.[52] In 2008, Keillor created a controversy 
in St. Paul when he filed a lawsuit against his neighbor's plan to build 
an addition on their home, citing his need for "light and air" and a view 
of "open space and beyond". Keillor's home is significantly larger than 
others in his neighborhood and would still be significantly larger than 
his neighbor's with its planned addition.[53] Keillor came to an undisclosed 
settlement with his neighbor shortly after the story became public.[54] 
In 2009, one of Keillor's "Old Scout" columns contained a reference to 
"lousy holiday songs by Jewish guys" and a complaint about "Silent Night" 
as rewritten by Unitarians, upsetting some readers.[55] A Unitarian minister 
named Cynthia Landrum responded, "Listening to him talk about us over the 
years, it's becoming more and more evident that he isn't laughing with 
us — he's laughing at us",[56] while Jeff Jacoby of the Boston Globe called 
Keillor "cranky and intolerant".[57] In Slate, Sam Anderson called Keillor 
"very clearly a genius. His range and stamina alone are incredible—after 
30 years, he rarely repeats himself—and he has the genuine wisdom of a 
Cosby or Mark Twain." But Keillor's "willful simplicity", Anderson wrote, 
"is annoying because, after a while, it starts to feel prescriptive. Being 
a responsible adult doesn’t necessarily mean speaking slowly about tomatoes." 
Anderson also noted that in 1985, when Time magazine called Keillor the 
funniest man in America, Bill Cosby said, "That’s true if you’re a pilgrim."[58] 
Keillor's style, particularly his speaking voice, has often been parodied. 
