Garry Lee Maddox (born September 1, 1949) is a former center fielder in 
Major League Baseball who was known for his outstanding defense. Maddox, 
a 1968 San Pedro High School senior in Los Angeles was drafted by the San 
Francisco Giants in the second round of the 1968 amateur draft. Maddox 
missed two seasons due to his service in the U.S. Army during the 1969 
and 1970 seasons. Exposure to chemicals in Vietnam left his skin highly 
sensitive, and he has worn a full beard ever since to protect his face.[1] 
Maddox reached the major leagues with the Giants in 1972. On May 4, 1975, 
the Giants traded him to the Philadelphia Phillies for first baseman Willie 
Montañez after the Phillies had failed in their efforts to acquire Rusty 
Staub from the Mets. The Phillies traded Montanez with the intention to 
replace him at first-base with Dick Allen.[2] Maddox went on to win his 
first Gold Glove Award as the top center fielder in the National League. 
Montanez was traded away the next year. Maddox's 1975 Gold Glove was his 
first of eight in a row. His sparkling defensive play led Phillies broadcaster 
Harry Kalas to remark, "Two-thirds of the Earth is covered by water, the 
other one-third is covered by Garry Maddox.", which was an original quote 
reported by Ray Didinger at the Bulletin in a 1975 article[3] (This quote 
has also been less frequently attributed to Ralph Kiner, as he quoted Didinger's 
1975 article the Hall-of-Fame slugger-turned-broadcaster for the New York 
Mets.[1]) Kalas nicknamed Maddox the "Secretary of Defense." In 1976, Maddox 
had his best year as a hitter, with a .330 batting average, and helped 
the Phillies win the National League East, their first postseason berth 
since the Whiz Kids in the 1950 World Series. But the team lost three consecutive 
National League Championship Series, including in 1978 against the Los 
Angeles Dodgers as Maddox made two errors in Game Four. With the score 
tied in the bottom of the tenth inning, two out, and Ron Cey on first, 
Maddox misplayed Dusty Baker's fly ball. He started back on the ball, then 
charged forward, and the ball glanced off his glove. Bill Russell then 
followed with a single to center. Maddox charged, but the ball skipped 
past him; had he fielded the ball cleanly, he could have thrown Cey (who 
was not known for his baserunning speed) out at the plate. Instead, Cey 
scored the winning run to put the Dodgers in the World Series. In the 10th 
inning of the fifth and final game of the 1980 NLCS against the Houston 
Astros, his double scored Del Unser for the pennant-winning run. In the 
bottom half, he caught Enos Cabell's fly ball for the final out to put 
the Phillies in the World Series for the first time since 1950. The Phillies 
beat the Kansas City Royals for their first World Championship. In 1983 
the Phillies again made it to the World Series losing this time to the 
Baltimore Orioles. In Game 1 the score was tied one to one until Maddox 
led off the eighth inning with a solo home run. The final was two to one 
and the Phillies only win of the series. Maddox continued to win Gold Gloves, 
steal bases and hit well for the Phillies until 1985, when he declined 
rapidly. He retired in early the next season. That year, he was honored 
with the Roberto Clemente Award, given annually to a player who demonstrates 
the values the Pittsburgh Pirates Hall-of-Famer (like Maddox, one of the 
best-fielding outfielders ever) displayed in his commitment to community 
and understanding the value of helping others. During his career, Maddox 
played in six postseasons, winning five full-season Division titles, two 
pennants and one World Series, all with the Phillies. His lifetime batting 
average was .285. Never a slugger, his peak year brought him just 14 home 
runs, and he hit 117 for his career. But he did hit 337 doubles and 62 
triples, products of the speed that also allowed him to run down fly balls 
few outfielders could reach, and to steal 20 or more bases in nine straight 
seasons. For his career, he had 248 stolen bases, which in August 2014 
ranks 232nd on the all-time list. After retiring, he founded World Wide 
Concessions, a leading national promotional products company specializing 
in unique branded gifts and packaging. By 1995, Maddox was majority owner 
and CEO of A. Pomerantz & Company, a Philadelphia-based office furniture 
company. In 2003, Maddox began a four-year term on the board of Federal 
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. Maddox has also worked as a spring training 
instructor for the Phillies, and was a color analyst for Phillies games 
on Philadelphia's now-defunct cable-sports network PRISM from 1987 to 1995. 
His son, Garry Maddox, Jr., also played professional baseball, but did 
not reach the major leagues. Maddox is a BBQ chef, and for a number of 
years has hosted the Garry Maddox Barbecue Challenge, a yearly fundraiser 
held outside of Citizens Bank Park before a home Phillies game. Local restaurants 
and amateur chefs competing in various categories. All proceeds benefit 
Compete 360, an academic enrichment program founded by Maddox to foster 
DT Philly, a design thinking (DT) practice in Philadelphia public schools 
that trains teachers to facilitate DT projects with their students. In 
2005, Maddox and other individuals became prominent investors in a Foxwoods 
slots casino proposed for Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.[4] In September 2008, 
facing massive opposition at the originally proposed waterfront location, 
backers for the slots casino decided to try to seek a new location in the 
Center City area, next to Philadelphia's Chinatown community.[5] On December 
16, 2010, the Gaming Control Board voted to revoke the casino's license 
