Gary Thorne (born June 9, 1948) is the lead play-by-play announcer for 
MASN. He has also worked for ESPN and ABC, including National Hockey League, 
Major League Baseball, college football, and the Frozen Four hockey tournament. 
He also works for World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), where he is the 
narrator for the WrestleMania Rewind program on its WWE Network streaming 
video service. After graduating from the University of Maine in 1970, University 
of Maine School of Law in 1973, and Georgetown Law School in 1976 (while 
paying tuition as a sportscaster/disc jockey), Thorne became Penobscot 
County assistant district attorney and joined the bar of the U.S. Supreme 
Court. But eventually, Thorne found courtrooms dull when compared to broadcasting. 
Thorne's son-in-law, Damian DiGiulian, is a former assistant coach for 
the University of Vermont hockey team; Maine (Thorne's alma mater) and 
Vermont are rivals in the Hockey East conference of Division I hockey. 
DiGiulian is now a color commentator for ESPNU's college hockey broadcasts.[citation 
needed] By 1984, Thorne had enough leverage with baseball's Triple-A Maine 
Guides to name himself a co-owner. In 1985, Thorne began a four-year stint 
as a radio announcer for the New York Mets. Thorne was present in the booth 
at Shea Stadium, along with Bob Murphy, for the now-famous sixth game of 
the 1986 World Series between the Mets and Boston Red Sox. Thorne was one 
of the first people to criticize the Red Sox for leaving ill-fated Red 
Sox first baseman Bill Buckner out in the 10th inning over Dave Stapleton. 
He has been the play-by-play TV announcer for the Mid-Atlantic Sports Network's 
Baltimore Orioles games since 2007. He is known for his signature calls 
of "Goodbye! Home run!" and "Mercy!" He prefers to use "two-RBI home run" 
and "three-RBI home run" rather than the more standard "two-run home run" 
and "three-run homer" phrases, despite the fact that the Orioles are famous 
for Earl Weaver's praise of "pitching, defense and three-run homers" as 
a recipe for success. In 1989, Thorne was named a backup play-by-play announcer 
(behind Al Michaels and replacing Gary Bender in this particular capacity) 
for ABC's coverage of Thursday Night Baseball telecasts with Joe Morgan. 
Thorne also served as a field reporter for the World Series and covered 
the World Series Trophy presentation for ABC. Like his ABC Sports colleagues, 
Al Michaels, Jim Palmer, Tim McCarver, and Joe Morgan, Thorne was at San 
Francisco's Candlestick Park when the infamous Loma Prieta earthquake hit 
on October 17, 1989. In 1995, Thorne called the first two games of the 
American League Division Series between the New York Yankees and Seattle 
Mariners on NBC/The Baseball Network with Tommy Hutton.|date=November 2016}} 
From 1996 until 2003, Gary Thorne served as the play-by-play man for the 
World Series on Armed Forces Radio/Major League Baseball International-TV.[1] 
In 2008, Thorne was named the lead play-by-play announcer for ESPN Radio's 
Sunday Night Baseball coverage. He teamed with color commentator Dave Campbell 
to call a majority of the network's Sunday Night games, although occasionally 
other commitments would cause him to miss a broadcast, with other ESPN 
announcers (such as Dan Shulman, who preceded Thorne as the primary Sunday 
night voice) filling in for him that week. Thorne has also worked on one 
of ESPN Radio's postseason Division Series crews each year, and (as previously 
mentioned) called the 2008 All-Star Game for non-U.S. viewers via MLB International 
television. Thorne officially replaced Dave O'Brien on the MLB International 
broadcasts of the All-Star Game, ALCS (even-numbered years), NLCS (odd-numbered 
years), and the World Series from 2010-2014 alongside Rick Sutcliffe. Thorne 
and Sutcliffe were replaced in 2015 by the #2 Fox broadcast team of Matt 
Vasgersian and John Smoltz. Thorne's voice is heard in Pepsi commercials 
featuring New York Yankees' Johnny Damon, the Minnesota Twins' Joe Mauer 
and MLB umpire Laz Díaz. In addition, he announces various games of the 
College World Series every year during the month of June. He also is a 
play-by-play TV announcer for the Little League World Series on ESPN during 
the month of August. Thorne is also the play-by-play announcer of the video 
game Major League Baseball 2K9, Major League Baseball 2K10, Major League 
Baseball 2K11, Major League Baseball 2K12, and Major League Baseball 2K13.|date=November 
2016}} In 1977, Thorne called hockey games for Augusta, Maine radio and 
television stations. Thorne rose to prominence in Maine broadcasting, when 
he began calling play-by-play for the University of Maine's hockey games 
for Bangor radio station WABI. As the voice of the Black Bears, he quickly 
became one of the most recognizable radio voices in the state. Thorne was 
asked to call Maine hockey games during winter months until 1987 (simultaneously 
with his work for the Mets in the summer from 1985) when the lure of doing 
play-by-play in the NHL became too strong for Thorne to ignore. From 1987–1993, 
Thorne served as the play-by-play voice of the New Jersey Devils of the 
NHL (before being replaced by Mike Emrick) on SportsChannel New York. Thorne 
missed several Mets games in the 1988 season due to Devils playoff games. 
He was replaced after that Mets season by Gary Cohen. Thorne spent the 
following season with the Chicago White Sox.|date=November 2016}} From 
1992 through 2004, Thorne called NHL play-by-play for games on ESPN, ESPN2 
and (beginning 1999) ABC, including many of the latter-round playoff games. 
He was almost always paired along with analyst Bill Clement during these 
ESPN-produced telecasts. NBC enlisted Thorne to call the hockey tournament 
with John Davidson during the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City. He 
is the announcer on EA Sports' NHL 08, NHL 09, NHL 10, NHL 11, NHL 12, 
NHL 13 and NHL 14 video games, as well as ESPN Videogames' ESPN NHL 2K5 
alongside Bill Clement. In 2005 when ESPN dropped out of the bidding for 
NHL hockey games, Gary Thorne began doing play-by-play for baseball and 
college football on ESPN. He also picked up duties as the lead play-by-play 
announcer for the Frozen Four. Thorne and Clement called every Stanley 
Cup win from 1993 through 2004, except for 1995; Mike Emrick and John Davidson 
were the broadcast team for the clinching game of that Finals series (which 
was aired on Fox). Thorne was named to call the play-by-play of Team USA's 
games in the 2010 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships for the NHL Network 
alongside Dave Starman. However, shortly before the tournament started, 
he was replaced by JP Dellacamera for personal reasons. Thorne returned 
to the NHL Network in 2011 to call Team USA's games in the 2011 World Junior 
Ice Hockey Championships.|date=November 2016}} He has also called ABC's 
coverage of the Capital One Bowl for 2004 and 2005. In 2011, Thorne joined 
CBS Sports Network as a play-by-play man for college football and has been 
paired with Randy Cross as color analyst.|date=November 2016}} On February 
25, 2014, the WWE Network debuted WrestleMania Rewind, a behind the scenes 
look at one of the matches that took place at the WWE's annual WrestleMania 
event. While Pat Summerall provided narration for the first episode, Thorne 
provides the narration for every episode beginning with episode #2 due 
to Summerall's passing.|date=November 2016}} In September 2002, Thorne 
reportedly talked of dissension in the Mets clubhouse between manager Bobby 
Valentine and the team's players. "There are a lot of guys down there (in 
the dugout) who don't like him," a New York Daily News columnist quotes 
Thorne as having said. "They don't like playing for him. And if there has 
ever been a Teflon manager, he's it. Nothing seems to stick. He's never 
responsible for anything."[2] Valentine and the Mets parted ways after 
the 2002 season. In April 2007, in reference to Curt Schilling's famed 
bloody sock during the 2004 MLB playoffs, Thorne said during a broadcast 
of a Red Sox–Orioles game that Boston backup catcher Doug Mirabelli admitted 
it was a hoax. "It was painted," Thorne said. "Doug Mirabelli confessed 
up to it after. It was all for PR." Thorne later said that Mirabelli had 
only been joking. "He said one thing, and I heard something else. I reported 
what I heard and what I honestly felt was said," Thorne said. "Having talked 
with him today, there's no doubt in my mind that's not what he said, that's 
not what he meant. He explained that it was in the context of the sarcasm 
and the jabbing that goes on in the clubhouse. "I took it as something 
serious, and it wasn't," Thorne said. Mirabelli confirmed the story, saying, 
"He knows that I believe 100 percent that I thought the sock had blood 
on it. It never crossed my mind that there wasn't blood on that sock. If 
he misinterpreted something said inside the clubhouse, it's unfortunate." 
Mirabelli said he spoke with Thorne in the Boston clubhouse about six months 
after the 2004 playoffs. "As he was walking away he asked, 'How about the 
bloody sock?' I said, 'Yeah, we got a lot of publicity out of that,' and 
that was all he can recall me saying," Mirabelli said. "He said he assumed 
what I meant was that the sock was fake and that it was just a publicity 
stunt. That by no means is what I meant. There was never a doubt in mind 
