Gary Edmund Carter (April 8, 1954 – February 16, 2012) was an American 
professional baseball catcher whose 21-year career was spent primarily 
with the Montreal Expos and New York Mets. Nicknamed "Kid" for his youthful 
exuberance, Carter was named an All-Star 11 times, and was a member of 
the 1986 World Champion Mets. Known throughout his career for his hitting 
and his excellent defense behind the plate, Carter made a major contribution 
to the Mets' World Series championship in 1986, including a 12th-inning 
single against the Houston Astros that won Game 5 of the NLCS and a 10th-inning 
single against the Boston Red Sox to start the fabled comeback rally in 
Game 6 of the World Series. He is one of only four people ever to be named 
captain of the Mets, and he had his number retired by the Expos.[1] After 
retiring from baseball, Carter coached baseball at the college and minor-league 
level. In 2003, he was inducted into the National Baseball Hall of Fame 
in Cooperstown, New York. Carter was the first Hall of Famer whose plaque 
depicts him as a member of the Montreal Expos. Carter was born in Culver 
City, California in 1954 to Jim Carter, an aircraft worker, and his wife, 
Inge. Gary was athletic at a young age, winning (along with four other 
boys) the 7-year old category of the first national Punt, Pass, and Kick 
skills competition in 1961.[2] When Gary was 12, his mother died of leukemia.[3] 
He attended high school at Sunny Hills High School, in Fullerton, California, 
where he played football as a quarterback and baseball as an infielder. 
After receiving more than 100 scholarships for athletics,[4] Carter signed 
a letter of intent to play football for the UCLA Bruins as a quarterback, 
but instead signed with the Montreal Expos after they drafted him in the 
1972 Major League Baseball draft.[4][5] Carter was drafted by the Montreal 
Expos as a shortstop in the third round of the 1972 Major League Baseball 
draft. Carter got his nickname "Kid"[6] during his first spring training 
camp with the Expos in 1974. The Expos converted Carter to a catcher in 
the minor leagues.[7] In 1974, he hit 23 home runs and drove in 83 runs 
for the Expos' triple-A affiliate, the Memphis Blues. Following a September 
call-up, Carter made his major league debut in Jarry Park in Montreal in 
the second game of a double header against the New York Mets on September 
16. Despite going 0–4 in that game, he finished the season batting .407 
(11-27). He hit his first major league home run on September 28 against 
Steve Carlton in a 3–1 victory over the Philadelphia Phillies.[8] Carter 
split time between right field and catching during his rookie season (1975), 
and was selected for the National League All-Star team as a right fielder. 
He did not get an at bat, but appeared as a defensive replacement for Pete 
Rose in the ninth inning, and caught Rod Carew's fly ball for the final 
out of the NL's 6–3 victory.[9] In that rookie season, Carter hit .270 
with 17 home runs and 68 runs batted in, receiving the Sporting News Rookie 
of the Year Award and finishing second to San Francisco Giants pitcher 
John Montefusco for the National League Rookie of the Year award. That 
year, he was voted the Expos Player of the Year for the first of four times 
(he also won in 1977, 1980 and 1984). Carter again split time in the outfield 
and behind the plate in 1976 while a broken finger limited him to 91 games. 
He batted .219 with six home runs and 38 RBIs. In 1977, young stars Warren 
Cromartie, Ellis Valentine and Andre Dawson became full-time outfielders. 
By June, starting catcher Barry Foote was traded, opening up a regular 
starting position for Carter behind the plate. He responded with 31 home 
runs and 84 RBIs. In 1980, Carter clubbed 29 home runs, drove in 101 runs, 
and earned the first of his three consecutive Gold Glove Awards. He finished 
second to third baseman Mike Schmidt in NL MVP balloting, whose Phillies 
took the National League East by one game over the Expos. Carter caught 
Charlie Lea's no-hitter on May 10, 1981,[10] during the first half of the 
strike shortened season. The season resumed on Sunday, August 9, 1981 with 
the All-Star Game. Carter was elected to start his first All Star Game, 
and responded with two home runs and being named the game's MVP. Carter 
was the fifth and most recent player to hit two home runs in an All-Star 
Game. MLB split the 1981 season into two halves, with the first-place teams 
from each half in each division meeting in a best-of-five divisional playoff 
series. The four survivors moved on to two best-of-five League Championship 
Series. The Expos won the NL East's second half with a 30–23 record. In 
his first post-season, Carter batted .421, hit two home runs and drove 
in six in the Expos' three games to two victory over the Phillies in the 
division series. Carter's average improved to .438 in the 1981 National 
League Championship Series, with no home runs or RBIs, and his Expos lost 
to the Los Angeles Dodgers in five games. Pierre Elliott Trudeau, then 
prime minister of Canada, once remarked of Carter's popularity saying "I 
am certainly happy that I don't have to run for election against Gary Carter." 
However some Expos were put off by Carter's unabashed enthusiasm, feeling 
that he was too taken with his image and basked in his press coverage too 
eagerly, derisively naming him "Camera Carter". Andre Dawson felt Carter 
was "more a glory hound than a team player".[11] Carter hit a home run 
in the 1984 Major League Baseball All-Star Game to give the NL a 2–1 lead 
that they would not relinquish, earning him his second All-Star game MVP 
award. Carter's league leading 106 RBIs, 159 games played, .294 batting 
average, 175 hits and 290 total bases were personal highs. The 1984 Expos 
finished fifth in the NL East. At the end of the season, the rebuilding 
Expos chafed at Carter's salary demands and traded him to the Mets for 
Hubie Brooks, Mike Fitzgerald, Herm Winningham and Floyd Youmans.[11] In 
his first game as a Met on April 9, 1985, he hit a tenth-inning home run 
off Neil Allen to give the Mets a 6–5 Opening Day victory over the St. 
Louis Cardinals. The Mets and Cardinals rivaled for the National League 
East championship, with Carter and first baseman Keith Hernandez leading 
the Mets. The season came down to the wire as the Mets won 98 games that 
season; however, they lost the division to a Cardinals team that won 101 
games. Carter hit a career high 32 home runs and drove in 100 runs his 
first season in New York. The Mets had three players finish in the top 
ten in NL MVP balloting that season (Dwight Gooden 4th, Carter 6th and 
Hernandez 8th). In 1986, the Mets won 108 games and took the National League 
East by 21 1⁄2 games over the Phillies. Carter suffered a postseason slump 
in the NLCS, batting .148. However, he hit a walk-off RBI single to win 
Game 5. Carter also had two hits in Game 6 which the Mets won in 16 innings.[12] 
The Mets won the 1986 World Series in seven games over the Boston Red Sox. 
Carter batted .276 with nine RBIs in his first World Series, and hit two 
home runs over Fenway Park's Green Monster in Game Four. He is the only 
player to hit two home runs in both an All-Star Game (1981) and a World 
Series game. Carter started a two-out rally in the tenth inning of Game 
6, scoring the first of three Mets runs that inning on a single by Ray 
Knight. He also hit an eighth-inning sacrifice fly that tied the game.[13] 
Carter finished third on the NL MVP ballot in 1986.[12] Carter batted .235 
in 1987, and ended the season with 291 career home runs. He had 299 home 
runs by May 16 1988 after a fast start, then slumped until August 11 against 
the Chicago Cubs at Wrigley Field when he hit his 300th. During his home 
run drought, Carter was named co-captain of the team with Hernandez, who 
had been named captain the previous season. Carter ended 1988 with 11 home 
runs and 46 RBIs—his lowest totals since 1976. He ended the season with 
10,360 career putouts as a catcher, breaking Detroit Tigers catcher Bill 
Freehan's career mark (9941). The Mets won 100 games that season, taking 
the NL East by fifteen games. However, the heavily favored Mets lost to 
the Los Angeles Dodgers in the 1988 National League Championship Series. 
Carter batted .183 in fifty games for the Mets in 1989. In November the 
Mets released Carter after five seasons, hitting 89 home runs and driving 
in 349 runs. After leaving the Mets, Carter platooned with catcher Terry 
Kennedy on the San Francisco Giants in 1990, batting .254 with nine home 
runs. He found himself again in a pennant race in 1991 with the Los Angeles 
Dodgers, who finished one game behind the Atlanta Braves in the National 
League West. At the end of the season, Carter returned to Montreal for 
his final season off waivers from the Dodgers. Carter was still nicknamed 
"Kid" by teammates despite his age. In his last at-bat, he hit a double 
over the head of Chicago Cub right-fielder Andre Dawson, the only other 
player to go into the Hall of Fame as an Expo.[14] The Expos went 87-75 
and finished second behind the Pittsburgh Pirates in the National League 
East. Carter had a .991 fielding percentage as a catcher and 11,785 career 
putouts. He ranks sixth all-time in career home runs by a catcher with 
298. Carter caught 127 shutouts during his career, ranking him 6th all-time 
among major league catchers.[15] After his retirement as a player, Carter 
served as an analyst for Florida Marlins television broadcasts from 1993 
to 1996. He also appeared in the movie The Last Home Run (1998) which was 
filmed in 1996.[16] In his sixth year on the ballot, Gary Carter was elected 
to the Baseball Hall of Fame along with Eddie Murray on January 7, 2003. 
Carter became the first Hall of Famer whose plaque depicts him with an 
Expos logo.[17] Carter had originally expressed a preference during his 
final playing season to be inducted as an Expo. Given the uncertainty of 
the Expo franchise, Carter's employment by the Mets organization since 
retiring as a player, his World Series title with the Mets, and his media 
celebrity during his stint in New York, Carter shifted his preference to 
be enshrined with a Mets cap after his election to the Hall. The New York 
City media strongly supported Carter's preference to go into the Hall as 
a Met. Carter joked that "he wanted his Cooperstown cap to be a half-and-halfer, 
split between the Expos and Mets".[18] The final decision rested with the 
Hall of Fame, and Hall president Dale Petroskey declared that Carter's 
achievements with the Expos over twelve season had earned his induction, 
whereas his five seasons with the Mets by itself would not have, saying 
"we want to have represented on the plaque the team that best represents 
where a player made the biggest impact in his career. When you look at 
it, it's very clear. Gary Carter is an important part of the history of 
the Expos."[17] Carter accepted the Hall's decision with grace, stating: 
"The fact I played 11 years in Montreal and the fact that the majority 
of my statistics and accomplishments were achieved there, it would be wrong, 
probably, to do it any other way."[19] At the induction ceremony, Carter 
spoke a few words of French, thanking fans in Montreal for the great honor 
and pleasure of playing in that city, while also taking great care to note 
the Mets' 1986 championship as the highlight of his career.[18] Carter 
was inducted into the New York Mets Hall of Fame in 2001.[20] While the 
Mets have not retired number eight, it has remained unused since Carter's 
election to the Hall of Fame in 2003. In 2003, Carter was elected into 
the Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame along with Kirk McCaskill, and his number 
eight was retired by the Expos. After the Expos moved to Washington, D.C. 
to become the Washington Nationals following the 2004 season, a banner 
displaying Carter's number along with those of other Expos stars Andre 
Dawson, Tim Raines and Rusty Staub was hung from the rafters at the Bell 
Centre, home of the NHL's Montreal Canadiens. In Washington, D.C., Carter's 
number eight is tacitly recognized on the facade of Nationals Park. Carter 
was named Gulf Coast League Manager of the Year his first season managing 
the Gulf Coast Mets in 2005. A year later, he was promoted to the A-level 
St. Lucie Mets, and guided his team to the 2006 Florida State League championship, 
again earning Manager of the Year honors. In more recent I years, Carter 
was criticized, most notably by former co-captain Keith Hernandez, for 
twice openly campaigning for the Mets' managerial position while it was 
still occupied by incumbents Art Howe in 2004, and in 2008 Willie Randolph. 
In 2008, he managed the Orange County Flyers of the Golden Baseball League, 
and again guided his team to the GBL Championship and was named Manager 
of the Year. For the following season Carter was named manager of the Long 
Island Ducks of the independent Atlantic League of Professional Baseball.[21] 
The Ducks won the 2009 second half Liberty Division title, but they were 
defeated by the Southern Maryland Blue Crabs in the Liberty Division playoffs.[22] 
The next season Carter was named head baseball coach for the NCAA Division 
II Palm Beach Atlantic University Sailfish. He and his wife, Sandy, were 
married in 1975. They had three children.[3] His daughter Kimmy is the 
head softball coach at Palm Beach Atlantic University[23] and was a softball 
catcher for Florida State from 1999 to 2002.[24] Carter was an active philanthropist. 
The Gary Carter Foundation (of which Carter was the president) supports 
8 Title I schools in Palm Beach County whose students live in poverty. 
Typically, these schools have 90% or more students eligible for free or 
reduced lunches. The Foundation seeks to "better the physical, mental and 
spiritual well being of children." To accomplish this, they advocate "school 
literacy by encouraging use of the Reading Counts Program, a program that 
exists in the Palm Beach County School District". Since its inception, 
The Gary Carter Foundation has placed over $622,000 toward charitable purposes, 
including $366,000 to local elementary schools for their reading programs.[citation 
needed] The 11th edition of the Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary, 
published in 2012, credits Carter, who rarely used profanity, with the 
first recorded use of the term "f-bomb." [25] In May 2011, Carter was diagnosed 
with four malignant tumors in his brain after experiencing headaches and 
forgetfulness. Doctors confirmed that he had a grade IV primary brain tumor 
known as glioblastoma multiforme. Doctors said that the extremely aggressive 
cancer was inoperable and Carter would undergo other treatment methods 
to shrink his tumor.[26][27] On January 20, 2012, daughter Kimmy posted 
on her blog that an MRI had revealed additional tumors on her father's 
brain. Even as he battled an aggressive form of brain cancer, Carter did 
not miss Opening Day for the college baseball team he coached.[28] Carter 
died on February 16, 2012, at the age of 57.[29] On February 25, 2012, 
the Mets announced that they were adding a memorial patch to their uniforms 
in Carter's honor for the entire 2012 season. The patch features a black 
home plate with the number 8 and "KID" inscribed on it.[30] On the Mets' 
2012 opening day, the Carter family unveiled a banner with a similar design 
on the center field wall of Citi Field. The NHL's Montreal Canadiens, who 
had purchased the Expos' mascot Youppi! and hung retired numbers in its 
arena after the Expos' relocation to Washington, paid tribute to Carter 
by presenting a video montage and observing a moment of silence before 
a game against the New Jersey Devils on February 20, 2012. All Canadiens 
players took to the ice during pre-game warm-ups wearing number 8 Carter 
jerseys, and Youppi! appeared wearing an Expos uniform. In addition, Youppi! 
wore a patch on his Canadiens jersey featuring a white circle with a blue 
number 8 inside it for the remainder of the season. [31] Tom Verducci, 
longtime Sports Illustrated baseball writer, reminisced about Carter following 
his death, "I cannot conjure a single image of Gary Carter with anything 
but a smile on his face. I have no recollection of a gloomy Carter, not 
even as his knees began to announce a slow surrender ... Carter played 
every day with the joy as if it were the opening day of Little League."[3] 
"Gary actually took a lot of grief from his teammates for being a straight 
arrow. It wasn't the cool thing to do but on the same token, I think he 
actually served as a role model for a lot of these guys as they aged. He 
was the ballast of that team. They did have a lot of fun, there's no question 
about that, but they were also one of the fiercest, most competitive teams 
I've ever seen and obviously their comebacks from the '86 postseason defines 
that team. Carter was a huge part of that."[32] Faillon Street West in 
Montreal, near the former Jarry Park stadium, has been renamed Gary Carter 
Street in his honor.[33] On March 28, 2014, during an exhibition game between 
the Toronto Blue Jays and the New York Mets at Olympic Stadium in Montreal, 
Quebec, a banner was unveiled in honor of Carter in a special ceremony 
before the first pitch. Carter's widow Sandy and daughter Kimmy were present 
on field for an emotional video tribute and the unveiling of the banner 
on the outfield wall, which reads "Merci! Thank You!" and contains an image 
