Gary Miller (born October 31, 1956) is an American sportscaster and radio 
host. Miller graduated in the same high school class, in Naperville, Illinois, 
as former CNN news anchor Paula Zahn. He has a bachelor's degree in communications 
at Southern Illinois University Carbondale and was the sports director 
at the campus radio (WSIU (FM)) and television (WSIU-TV) stations. From 
1978–82, he was the Sports Director at WSAV-TV in Savannah, Georgia. Before 
Miller came to ESPN, he spent eight years at CNN and Headline News as part 
of their sports coverage. From 1990 to 2004, Miller worked at ESPN. He 
was an anchor at SportsCenter, the host of ESPN's Baseball Tonight, and 
the last host of the sports interview show Up Close before it was canceled 
in 2001. Miller also occasionally did play-by-play of Major League Baseball 
games, and was the primary dugout reporter on Monday Night baseball broadcasts, 
as well as ESPN Daygame. Other play-by-play assignments during this period 
included games of the College World Series and the Little League World 
Series. Miller appeared on Dan Patrick's radio show on Nov. 30, 2007, where 
Patrick revealed to his audience that a blooper tape exists of Miller butchering 
a soccer breakdown during the 1994 World Cup. On the tape, Miller not only 
mispronounces the name of soccer's governing body, FIFA, but also struggles 
with the pronunciations of many players, notably that of Cameroon national 
player Rigobert Bahanag Song [1] and Italian player Gianluca Pagliuca. 
Until November 2006, he was host of West Coast Bias, a daily sports talk 
show on KSPN radio in Los Angeles, along with former National Football 
League athlete D'Marco Farr. The show, which airs at 1 p.m. Pacific time 
Monday through Friday, sometimes originates at ESPN Zone in Anaheim, California. 
On November 10, 2006, it was reported that Miller was leaving the show, 
effective immediately. The program was renamed The D'Marco Farr Show with 
guest hosts replacing Miller.[1] Miller is currently an anchor for the 
CBS Corporation-owned duopoly of KCBS and KCAL in Los Angeles, working 
mainly nighttime newscasts. Miller is married and is the father of two. 
