The Gashouse Gang was the baseball team of the St. Louis Cardinals in 1934.[1] 
The team won 95 games, the National League pennant, and the 1934 World 
Series in seven games over the Detroit Tigers. The nickname, by most accounts, 
came from the team's generally very shabby appearance and rough-and-tumble 
tactics. An opponent[who?] once stated that the Cardinals players usually 
went into the field in unwashed, dirty, and smelly uniforms, which alone 
spread horror among their rivals. According to one account, shortstop Leo 
Durocher coined the term. He and his teammates were speaking derisively 
of the American League, and the consensus was that the Redbirds—should 
they prevail in the National League race—would handle whoever won the AL 
pennant. "Why, they wouldn't even let us in that league over there",[this 
quote needs a citation] Durocher, who had played for the New York Yankees, 
observed. "They think we're just a bunch of gashousers." The phrase gas 
house referred to factories that turned coal into town gas for lighting 
and cooking. Common in U.S. cities until the widespread use of natural 
gas, the plants were noted for their foul smell and were typically located 
near railroad yards in the poorest neighborhood in the city. Another explanation 
holds that the name comes from Dizzy Dean, who played at City Park (renamed 
McKechnie Field in 1962), in Bradenton, Florida, for spring training in 
the 1930s. The story goes that Dean liked the city so much, he bought a 
local gas station and hung out there when he wasn't playing.[2] The team 
was led by playing manager Frankie Frisch and included other stars such 
as Joe Medwick and Ripper Collins. Many of the players on the Cardinal 
roster, including the Dean brothers, Bill DeLancey, Pepper Martin, Spud 
Davis, and Burgess Whitehead, were Southerners or Southwesterners from 
working-class backgrounds. The team featured five regulars who hit at least 
.300, a 30-game winner in Dizzy Dean (the last National League pitcher 
to win 30 games in a single season, and the last pitcher in Major League 
Baseball to do so until Denny McLain accomplished the feat for the 1968 
Detroit Tigers), and four All-Stars, including player-manager Frisch. Not 
among the All-Stars was Collins, the first baseman who led the team in 
sixteen offensive categories with stats like a .333 batting average, a 
.615 slugging percentage, 35 home runs, and 128 runs batted in. In the 
World Series, the Cards and Tigers split the first two games in Detroit, 
and the Tigers took two of the next three in St. Louis. St. Louis proceeded 
to win the next two, including an 11–0 embarrassment of the Tigers in Detroit 
to win the Series. The stars for the Cards were Medwick, who had a .379 
batting average with one of St. Louis's two home runs and a series-high 
five RBI, and the Dean Brothers, who combined for all four of the teams 
