The Gateway Region is located in northeastern New Jersey in the United 
States of America. The area encompasses Bergen, Essex, Hudson, Passaic, 
Union and Middlesex counties. It is the most urban part of the state, with 
a population of more than four million, and is home to most of its larger 
cities, though much housing was originally developed as suburbs as part 
of the New York metropolitan area.[1][2][3][4] It is home to Ellis Island, 
the "gateway" through which many immigrants entered the United States, 
many of whom chose to stay in the region, which continues to be the port 
of entry and first home to many born abroad, making it one of the most 
ethnically diverse of the nation. It may also be the most socio-economically 
diverse, with some of the biggest pockets of poverty and most exclusive 
of suburbs in the state.[5] The designation has not caught on in local 
parlance, as the topography and self-identification of the residents tend 
not to correspond to the collective name. The terms North Jersey and Central 
Jersey are used in describing parts of the Gateway. The name may have been 
taken from the 1960s Newark nickname Gateway City after the newly developed 
Gateway Center downtown. Amtrak's high-speed rail project throughout the 
region is called Gateway. It is one of six tourism regions established 
by the New Jersey State Department of Tourism, the others being the Greater 
Atlantic City Region, the Southern Shore Region, the Delaware River Region, 
the Shore Region and the Skylands Region.[6] The Gateway National Recreation 
Area, though not located inside the Gateway Region, is nearby. The Gateway 
Region is home to New Jersey's six largest municipalities: Newark, Jersey 
City, Paterson, Elizabeth, Woodbridge Township, and Edison. Major rivers 
and the bays include the Hudson River/Upper New York Bay, the Hackensack 
River and the Passaic River/Newark Bay, and the Raritan. The topography 
of the area is quite varied, with the Palisades and the Meadowlands in 
the northeast, the hills and valleys of the Watchung Mountains in the west, 
the Ramapo Mountains in the north, and tidal plains of the Raritan to the 
south. The confluence of the roads and railways of the Northeast Megalopolis 
make the region very heavily traveled. Chemical Coast is a nickname for 
the heavily industrial area along the Arthur Kill. Though there are broad 
distinctions between cities, suburbs, heavy industry, light manufacturing, 
recreational "green spaces", nature preserves, and retail, transportation, 
and maritime infrastructure, the landscape is characterized by their close 
proximity to each other, as is typical of urban sprawl. The Gateway Region 
was the territory of the Lenape Native Americans. Later called Delaware 
Indian, this collection of Algonquian-language speaking people included 
the Hackensack, Raritan, and Tappan They are recalled in the countless 
number of place names given by them to towns, hills, and bodies of water. 
Much of the land was "purchased" by Dutch and English from the Lenape, 
though this concept of "ownership" was foreign to them. The Lenape retreated 
to the west as settlements grew, and "agreed" to re-locate in 1766 with 
the Treaty of Easton, though some became part of the Ramapough Mountain 
Indians. Henry Hudson, an Englishman sailing for the Dutch East India Company 
anchored his ship the Halve Maen (Half Moon) at Sandy Hook and Weehawken 
Cove in 1609. The area became part of the colonial province of New Netherland 
with headquarters in New Amsterdam. In 1630 the patroonship Pavonia was 
established and 1660, after series of confrontations with the Lenape, that 
the first chartered village was established on the west bank of the North 
River at Bergen Square, creating the oldest municipality in the state. 
Descendents of the New Netherlanders spread across North Jersey, and influenced 
its development and character for generations.[7] When the English entered 
New York Harbor in 1664, a negotiated surrender (which guaranteed religious 
tolerance and protection of private property) was made to transfer control 
of the area to the British crown. Elizabethtown was founded as the capitol 
and became the first officially English-speaking settlement, named after 
the wife of the province's proprietor, Sir George Cateret. In 1666, Newark 
was established by Puritans from Connecticut. By 1675, the region become 
the proprietary colony of East Jersey (establishing a border with New York 
State, which was formalized in 1738). It was partitioned into four counties 
for administrative purposes: Bergen County, Essex County, Middlesex County 
and Monmouth County. Settlement remained sparse, though some towns were 
created within farming communities and along rivers and bays. Among them 
are Perth Amboy in 1684, Hackensack and Piscataway[8] in 1693, and New 
Brunswick in 1736 (which later became home to Rutgers University). During 
the 18th century, migration inland increased along the Horseneck Tract 
and Raritan Valley. Slavery and indenture were encouraged to populate the 
area. The third public reading of The Declaration of Independence took 
place in New Brunswick, but many East Jerseyans became Tories. Several 
battles of American Revolution took place in the region including those 
at Connecticut Farms, Bound Brook, and Paulus Hook. The first steam engine 
in America was introduced at the Schuyler Copper Mine on New Barbadoes 
Neck in 1755.[9] In 1791, Alexander Hamilton help found the Society for 
the Establishment of Useful Manufactures (S.U.M.), which encouraged the 
harnessing of the water power of the Great Falls of the Passaic and to 
secure economic independence from British manufacturers. Paterson, which 
was founded by the society, became the cradle of the industrial revolution 
in America, supported in part by the Morris Canal built in the 1820s. A 
century later Thomas Edison, the Wizard of Menlo Park, made his mark.[10] 
In 1872 the Singer Manufacturing Company of New York opened a factory in 
Elizabethport along Trumbull Street next to the intersection of the CNJ 
mainline with the Perth Amboy and Elizabethport Branch.[11] Many discoveries 
and inventions, or application or mass production of them, were made in 
the Gateway Region including the steam engine, the revolver, the incandescent 
light bulb, the phonograph, the rocket engine, and the electric railway. 
It is the site of the first automobile and first submarine in the United 
States. It can claim to the birthplace of baseball and the American film 
industry, Television to the home was first broadcast in the Gateway. [12] 
The latter half of the 19th century saw an explosion of the population.[13][14] 
German immigration to the United States after 1848 gave the parts of the 
region a distinctly German flavor. Rail lines which still cross-cross the 
region, led to the development of the shipping industry at the North River 
(Hudson River), Newark Bay, and Kill van Kull, and the beginnings of suburban 
developments such as Llewellyn Park. Streetcar suburbs also began to develop 
elsewhere. The Bayway Refinery, started in 1907 is the nation's northernmost, 
is along the corridor with other heavy industry. It was at this time that 
the Chemical Coast began to be developed. The Paterson Silk Strike took 
place in 1913. The Hudson Waterfront became home to heavy industry and 
shipping. Among the industries that would prosper in the first half of 
the 20th century were Alcoa Aluminum, the Ford Motor Company, Lever Brothers, 
Valvoline Oil Co. and Archer-Daniels-Midland.[15] While immigration to 
Ellis Island decreased the population continued to grow, in part due to 
the Great Migration. Upon entry to World War I the US government took the 
Hamburg-American Line piers in Hoboken under eminent domain, and which 
became the major point of embarkation for more than three million soldiers, 
known as "doughboys". Camp Merritt was established in Cresskill for troop 
staging.[16] In 1916, an act of sabotage literally and figuratively shook 
the region when German agents set off bombs at the munitions depot in New 
York Bay at Black Tom.[17] Another act of sabotage known as the Kingsland 
Explosion occurred on January 11, 1917.[18] The T. A. Gillespie Company 
Shell Loading Plant explosion, though not considered sabotage, also caused 
tremondous damage. The fore-runner of Port Authority of New York and New 
Jersey was established on April 30, 1921.[19] Huge transportation projects 
opened between the wars: The Holland Tunnel in 1927, The George Washington 
Bridge in 1931, The Bayonne Bridge in 1931, and The Lincoln Tunnel in 1937, 
allowing vehicular travel between New Jersey and New York City to bypass 
the waterfront. Hackensack River crossings, notably the Pulaski Skyway, 
were also built. Newark Airport was the first major airport in the New 
York Metropolitan Area, opening on October 1, 1928. At Houvenkopf Mountain 
crosses were burned by the Ku Klux Klan. Radburn was founded in 1929 as 
"a town for the motor age".[20][21] The Kearney Works of Western Electric 
kept the plant running with "make work" program,[22] similar to WPA projects. 
The region played an import role in World War II effort. PT boats were 
manufactured by Elco in Bayonne.[23] Military Ocean Terminal at Bayonne 
(MOTBY) was opened in 1942 as a U.S. military base (remained in operation 
until 1999).[24] General Motors produced planes at Linden Assembly.The 
Federal Shipbuilding and Drydock Company would produce over thirty ships 
before its closing in 1949.[25] In 1946, the baseball color line was first 
crossed at Roosevelt Stadium by Jackie Robinson.[26] The Second Great Migration 
and the G.I. Bill changed the social geography as well as the physical 
geography of the Gateway. Planned and built during the 1950s Port Newark-Elizabeth 
Marine Terminal is the first and largest container port in the eastern 
United States. Direct distance dialing (DDD) was introduced on November 
10, 1951 in Englewood[27] The northern parts of the New Jersey Turnpike 
were opened between 1952 and 1956. The metropolitan section (north of the 
Driscoll Bridge) of the Garden State Parkway was completed in 1957. Bergen 
Mall was the first mall in New Jersey, opened in 1957, soon followed by 
Westfield Garden State Plaza.[28] and The Mall at Short Hills. Port Newark-Elizabeth 
Marine Terminal became the nation's first container terminal in 1958, and 
was for many years its busiest. The Newark Riots and the Plainfield Riots 
took place in 1967. The New Jersey Meadowlands Commission was established 
in 1969 to protect the delicate balance of nature, provide for orderly 
development, and manage solid waste activities in the New Jersey Meadowlands 
District, and the Meadowlands Sports Complex opened in 1976. Terminals 
A, B, and C at Newark Airport were completed in 1973. People's Express 
later made the airport its major hub, and passenger volumes increased. 
Liberty State Park opened in 1976. Gentrification of the Hoboken and Downtown 
Jersey City nineteenth century districts began in the late 1970s, which 
led to the eventual re-development of the Hudson Waterfront. Secaucus Junction, 
Midtown Direct, and Hudson–Bergen Light Rail began service and changed 
commuting patterns. The Highlands Water Protection and Planning Act was 
passed in 2004 to protect the watershed which supplies much of the region. 
Cory Booker became mayor of Newark. The Prudential Center opened in downtown 
Newark in 2007. American Dream Meadowlands, a large commercial center, 
is currently under construction. The Gateway Region has an extensive network 
of national highways, state freeways, and toll roads; commuter and long 
distance trains; an expanding light rail system; local and interstate bus 
routes; and is home to one of the New York/New Jersey metropolitan area's 
three major airports. Much of the rail and surface transit system is operated 
by New Jersey Transit and the high transit ridership is mostly oriented 
to commuters traveling to downtown Newark, lower and midtown Manhattan, 
and increasingly, the Hudson Waterfront. Outside of the most "city-like" 
areas of Greater Newark, Elizabeth, Hudson County, and Greater Paterson, 
the automobile remains the most common means of intra-regional travel.[29] 
The Port of New York and New Jersey is the busiest on the East Coast of 
the United States. Commercial scheduled passenger service: General aviation: 
The Port of New York and New Jersey is the nation's third busiest. Port 
Newark-Elizabeth Marine Terminal, was the first in the nation to containerize,[30] 
It and Port Jersey in Bayonne and Jersey City include large segments that 
are part of Foreign Trade Zone 49. The Gateway is part of the Greater New 
York media market. Many communities have weekly local newspapers specific 
to their towns, while other daily newspapers have a broader readership 
and are commonly available in retail shops and for delivery. The following 
newspapers are daily newspapers serving the Gateway Region market. The 
region has ethnic market stations as well as commercial stations that mainly 
address the metropolitan New York City market as a whole. The WNJN network 
for New Jersey PBS affiliate stations provide New Jersey-specific news 
coverage. Television stations located in and broadcasting from Gateway: 
There are re-occurring events throughout the year in the Gateway including 
street fairs, First Nights, Summer stock theatre, county fairs, fireworks, 
and other festivals. Among them are: The Gateway Region is home to many 
points of historical interest, including districts, private homes, places 
of worship, train stations, civic and industrial architecture, and structures 
of engineering significance. The Statue of Liberty, Ellis Island, and the 
Central Railroad of New Jersey Terminal national symbols of mass immigration 
to the United States are all located on the Upper New York Bay. The Edison 
National Historic Site and the Great Falls of the Passaic River speak to 
the innovation of the region. Administered by the New Jersey Department 
of Environmental Protection, the New Jersey Register of Historic Places 
mirrors the National Register of Historic Places, and uses the same criteria 
for eligibility. Most counties have historical societies and many municipalities 
assign historic designation or preservation status. The New Jersey Historical 
Society maintains archives and promotes research. There are also museums 
with thematic exhibitions. Located near New York City, many residents and 
visitors take advantage of and contribute to performances in music, theater, 
and dance. There are many theater and dance companies throughout the region. 
Major companies, events, and performance venues include: The Gateway is 
home to five teams from major professional sports leagues playing in the 
state (though three teams identify as being from New York), as well as 
minor league teams. Since the 1970s several new stadiums and arenas have 
been built mostly near Downtown Newark or as part of the Meadowlands Sports 
Complex, which since 2009 can be reached with the Meadowlands Rail Line.[40] 
The teams are: The venues include: The region has some of the highest concentration 
of super fund sites in the nation.[47] Coordinates: 40°48′N 74°12′W﻿ / 
