Gatineau (/ˈɡætᵻnoʊ/, French pronunciation: ​[ɡatino]), officially Ville 
de Gatineau, is a city in western Quebec, Canada. It is the fourth largest 
city in the province after Montreal, Quebec City, and Laval. It is located 
on the northern bank of the Ottawa River, immediately across from Ottawa, 
together with which it forms Canada's National Capital Region. As of 2011 
Gatineau had a population of 265,349,[4] and a metropolitan population 
of 314,501.[5] The Ottawa–Gatineau census metropolitan area had a population 
of 1,236,324.[6] Gatineau is coextensive with a territory equivalent to 
a regional county municipality (TE) and census division (CD) of the same 
name, whose geographical code is 81. It is the seat of the judicial district 
of Hull.[7] The current city of Gatineau is centred on an area called Hull, 
the oldest non-native settlement in the National Capital Region. It was 
founded on the north shore of the Ottawa River in 1800 by Philemon Wright 
at the portage around the Chaudière Falls just upstream (or west) from 
where the Gatineau and Rideau Rivers flow into the Ottawa. Wright brought 
his family, five other families and twenty-five labourers[8] and a plan 
to establish an agriculturally based community to what was then a mosquito-infested 
wilderness. But soon after, Wright and his family took advantage of the 
large lumber stands and became involved in the timber trade. The original 
settlement was called Wrightstown, later it became Hull and in 2002, after 
amalgamation, the City of Gatineau. In 1820, before immigrants from Great 
Britain arrived in great numbers, Hull Township had a population of 707, 
including 365 men, 113 women, and 229 children. Note the discrepancy in 
the number of men and women, owing to the male work of the timber trade. 
In 1824, there were 106 families and 803 persons. During the rest of the 
1820s, the population of Hull doubled, owing to the arrival of Ulster Protestants. 
By 1851, the population of the County of Ottawa was 11,104, of which 2,811 
lived in Hull Township. By comparison, Bytown had a population of 7,760 
in 1851. By 1861, Ottawa County now had a population of 15,671, of which 
3,711 lived in Hull Township. The gradual move to the Township by French 
Canadians continued over the years, with the French Canadians growing from 
10% of the population in 1850, to 50% in 1870, and 90% in 1920.[9] The 
Gatineau River, like the Ottawa River, was very much the preserve of the 
draveurs, people who would use the river to transport logs from lumber 
camps until they arrived downriver. (The Gatineau River flows south into 
the Ottawa River which flows east to the St Lawrence River near Montreal.) 
The log-filled Ottawa River, as viewed from Hull, appeared on the back 
of the Canadian one-dollar bill until it was replaced by a dollar coin 
(the "loonie") in 1987, and the very last of the dwindling activity of 
the draveurs on these rivers ended a few years later. Ottawa was founded 
later, as the terminus of the Rideau Canal built under the command of Col. 
John By as part of fortifications and defences constructed after the War 
of 1812. Originally named Bytown, Ottawa did not become the Canadian capital 
until the mid-19th century after the original parliament in Montreal was 
torched by a rioting mob of English-speaking citizens on 25 April 1849. 
Its greater distance from the Canada–US border also left the new parliament 
less vulnerable to foreign attack. Nothing remains of the original 1800 
settlement; the downtown Vieux-Hull sector was destroyed by a terrible 
fire in 1900 which also destroyed the original pont des Chaudières (Chaudière 
Bridge), a road bridge which has since been rebuilt to join Ottawa to Hull 
at Victoria Island. In the 1940s, during World War II, Hull, along with 
various other regions within Canada, such as the Saguenay–Lac-Saint-Jean, 
and Île Sainte-Hélène, had Prisoner-of-war camps.[10] Hull's prison was 
simply labelled with a number and remained unnamed just like Canada's other 
war prisons.[10][11] The prisoners of war (POWs) were sorted and classified 
into categories by nationality and civilian or military status.[10] In 
this camp, POWs were mostly Italian and German nationals. During the Conscription 
Crisis of 1944 the prison eventually included Canadians who had refused 
conscription.[10] Also, prisoners were forced into hard labour which included 
farming and lumbering the land.[10] During the 1970s and early 1980s, the 
decaying old downtown core of Hull was transformed by demolition and replacement 
with a series of large office complexes. Some 4,000 residents were displaced, 
and many businesses uprooted along what was once the town's main commercial 
area.[12] On 11 November 1992, Mrs. Ghislaine Chénier, Mayoress by interim 
for the city of Hull, unveiled 'War Never Again', a marble stele monument 
which commemorates the suffering caused by war to the men, women and children 
of the city of Hull.[13] As part of the 2000–06 municipal reorganization 
in Quebec, the five municipalities that constituted the Communauté urbaine 
de l'Outaouais were merged on 1 January 2002 to constitute the new city 
of Gatineau. They were: Although Hull was the oldest and most central of 
the merged cities, the name Gatineau was chosen for the new city. The main 
reasons given were that Gatineau had more inhabitants, it was the name 
of the former county, the valley, the hills, the park and the main river 
within the new city limits: thus its name was less restrictive than Hull. 
Some argued that the French name of Gatineau was more appealing than a 
name from England to most French-speaking residents. Since the former city 
of Hull represents a large area distinct from what was formerly known as 
Gatineau, to be officially correct and specific many people say "vieux 
Hull" (the former Hull part of town) when speaking of it. It is of note 
that the name "Hull" was often informally used to refer to the whole urban 
area on the northern shore of the river facing Ottawa, so much so that 
the National Capital Region was often referred to as "Ottawa-Hull", especially 
in Quebec outside the immediate area. Although referendums were held in 
2004 to give citizens the opportunity to overturn the amalgamation, in 
the end none of the former municipalities met the threshold vote conditions 
for de-merger, and the status quo prevailed. A number of federal and provincial 
government offices are located in Gatineau, due to its proximity to the 
national capital, and its status as the main town of the Outaouais region 
of Quebec. A policy of the federal government to distribute federal jobs 
on both sides of the Ottawa River led to the construction of several massive 
office towers to house federal civil servants in downtown Gatineau; the 
largest of these are Place du Portage and Terrasses de la Chaudière, occupying 
part of the downtown core of the city. Some government agencies and ministries 
headquartered in Gatineau are the Canadian International Development Agency, 
Environment Canada, Public Works and Government Services Canada, Aboriginal 
Affairs and Northern Development Canada, Transportation Safety Board of 
Canada.,[14] and most recently Human Resources and Skills Development Canada 
Two important tourist attractions located in Gatineau are the Canadian 
Museum of History and the Casino du Lac-Leamy. In August, the Casino hosts 
an international fireworks competition which opposes four different countries 
with the winner being awarded a Prix Zeus prize for the best overall show 
(based on several criteria) and can return in the following year. At the 
beginning of September, on Labour Day weekend, Gatineau hosts an annual 
hot air balloon festival which fills the skies with colourful gas-fired 
passenger balloons. There are many parks. Some of them are well gardened 
playgrounds or resting spaces while others, like Lac Beauchamp Park, are 
relatively wild green areas which often merge with the woods and fields 
of the surrounding municipalities. Streams of all sizes run through these 
natural expanses. Most of the city is on level ground but the Northern 
and Eastern parts lie on the beginnings of the foothills of the massive 
Canadian Shield, or Laurentian Mountains. These are the "Gatineau Hills", 
and are visible in the background of the companion picture. One of Gatineau's 
urban parks, Jacques Cartier Park, is used by the National Capital Commission 
during the popular festival, Winterlude. Nightlife within the city of Gatineau 
is mostly centered in the "Vieux-Hull" sector behind the Federal office 
complexes of downtown. The area features many bars and restaurants within 
a stone's throw from Ottawa. It is a popular spot for young Ontarians as 
the legal drinking age in Quebec is 18 (as opposed to Ontario's 19). The 
city contains a campus of the Université du Québec, the Université du Québec 
en Outaouais (UQO). It is also the home of two provincial junior colleges 
(or CEGEPs): the francophone Cégep de l'Outaouais and the anglophone Heritage 
College. There is also the private junior college Nouvelles-Frontières 
located on the administration site of UQO. The National Autonomous University 
of Mexico (UNAM) has a campus in Gatineau. The main French-language school 
boards in Gatineau are the Commission scolaire des Portages-de-l'Outaouais, 
the Commission scolaire au Coeur-des-Vallées and the Commission scolaire 
des Draveurs. There are also three private high schools : the all-girl 
Collège Saint-Joseph, and the Collège Saint-Alexandre and École secondaire 
Nouvelles-Frontières (high school). Primary and secondary education in 
English is under the supervision of the Western Quebec School Board. The 
Gatineau-Ottawa Executive Airport is Gatineau's municipal airport, capable 
of handling small jets. There are Canada customs facilities for aircraft 
coming from outside Canada, a car rental counter and a restaurant. The 
airport has a few regularly scheduled flights to points within Quebec, 
but most residents of Gatineau use the nearby Ottawa Macdonald–Cartier 
International Airport or travel to Montréal–Pierre Elliott Trudeau International 
Airport in Montreal. Ottawa and Gatineau have two distinct bus-based public 
transit systems with different fare structures, OC Transpo and the Société 
de transport de l'Outaouais. Tickets are not interchangeable between the 
two, however passes and transfers from one system to the other do not require 
payment of a surcharge on any routes. Many Gatineau highways and major 
arteries feed directly into the bridges crossing over to Ottawa, but once 
there the roads lead into the dense downtown grid or into residential areas, 
with no direct connection to The Queensway. This difficulty is further 
magnified by the lack of a major highway on the Quebec side of the Ottawa 
River connecting Gatineau to Montreal, the metropolis of the province; 
most travellers from Gatineau to Montreal first cross over to Ottawa, and 
use Ontario highways to access Montreal. However, it is expected that since 
Autoroute 50 has been completed,[15] the new link between Gatineau and 
the Laurentides popular tourist area may serve as part of a Montreal by-pass 
by the north shore for Outaouais residents. The Gatineau Municipal Council 
(French: Le conseil municipal de Gatineau) is the city's main governing 
body. It is composed of 17 city councillors and a mayor. The city serves 
as the seat of the judicial district of Gatineau, which encompasses the 
entirety of the city of Gatineau as well as several outerlying municipalities 
such as Chelsea, Cantley and Pontiac. The superior court serving the Outaouais 
region is located in Gatineau across from City Hall on the corner of Laurier 
and Hôtel-de-Ville. Most of the law firms that represent local businesses 
throughout the region are also based in Gatineau. The 250-man Service de 
police de la Ville de Gatineau provides day-to-day policing for the city, 
with other agencies such as the SQ and the RCMP assisting as necessary. 
They are also responsible for patrolling sections of the highways located 
within the city limits. The Service de police is equipped with a CID unit, 
marine unit, drugs unit, gang suppression unit, and a tactical unit (Groupe 
d'endiguement et d'arrestation à risque, or GEAR). Patrol officers are 
armed with Smith & Wesson M&P .40 calibre pistols. The Service de police 
uses the same vehicles as similar police forces throughout North America. 
Gatineau is the city of licence for several television and radio stations 
serving the National Capital Region, which is a single media market. Many 
of the Ottawa-Gatineau region's TV and FM broadcast stations transmit from 
Camp Fortune just north of Gatineau. All of the stations licensed directly 
to Gatineau broadcast in French. Weekly newspapers published in Gatineau 
include Le Bulletin d'Aylmer (bilingual) and The West Quebec Post. Gatineau 
does not have its own daily newspaper, but is served by daily newspapers 
published in Ottawa, including the French Le Droit and the English Ottawa 
Citizen and Ottawa Sun. According to the 2011 census the city of Gatineau 
had a population of 265,349. This was an increase of 9.6% compared to 2006. 
Most of the population live in the urban cores of Aylmer, Hull and the 
former Gatineau. Buckingham and Masson-Angers are more rural communities. 
Gatineau is the fourth largest city in Quebec after Montreal, Quebec City 
and Laval. The Quebec part of Ottawa-Gatineau Census Metropolitan Area 
(CMA) — which includes various peripheral municipalities in addition to 
Gatineau — had a total population of 314,501. The following statistics 
refer to the Quebec portion of the Ottawa – Gatineau CMA (as it was defined 
in the 2006 census): Aboriginal status: First Nations comprise 2.7% of 
the population.[16] Languages: Counting both single and multiple responses, 
French was a mother tongue for 80.0% of residents in 2006, English for 
13.9%, Arabic for 1.7%, Portuguese for 1.1% and Spanish for 1.0%.[17] (Figures 
below are for single responses only.)[18] Religion: About 83% of the population 
identified as Roman Catholic in 2001 while 7% said they had no religion 
and 5% identified as Protestant (1.3% Anglican, 1.3% United, 0.7% Baptist, 
0.3% Lutheran, 0.2% Pentecostal, 0.2% Presbyterian). About 1% of the population 
identified as Muslim, 0.5% as Jehovah’s Witnesses, 0.3% as Buddhist, and 
0.2% as Eastern Orthodox.[19] Visible minorities: The 2001 census found 
that 4.3% of the population self-identified as having a visible minority 
status, including, among others, about 1.3% who self-identified as Black, 
about 1.0% self-identifying as Arab, 0.5% as Latin American, 0.4% as Chinese, 
0.3% as Southeast Asian, 0.2% as South Asian, and about 0.1% as Filipino. 
(Statistics Canada terminology is used throughout.)[20] (Percentages may 
total more than 100% due to rounding and multiple responses). Immigration: 
The area is home to more than five thousand recent immigrants (i.e. those 
arriving between 2001 and 2006), who now comprise about two percent of 
the total population. 11% of these new immigrants have come from Colombia, 
10% from China, 7% from France, 6% from Lebanon, 6% from Romania, 4% from 
Algeria, 3% from the United States and 3% from Congo.[22] Internal migration: 
Between 2001 and 2006 there was a net influx of 5,205 people (equivalent 
to 2% of the total 2001 population) who moved to Gatineau from outside 
of the Ottawa - Gatineau area. There was also a net outmigration of 630 
anglophones (equivalent to 2% of the 2001 anglophone population). Overall 
there was a net influx of 1,100 people from Quebec City, 1,060 from Montreal, 
545 from Saguenay, 315 from Toronto, 240 from Trois-Rivières, 225 from 
Kingston, and 180 from Sudbury.[23] Ethnocultural ancestries: Canadians 
were able to self-identify one or more ethnocultural ancestries in the 
2001 census. (Percentages may therefore add up to more than 100%.) The 
most common response was Canadian / Canadien and since the term 'Canadian' 
is as much an expression of citizenship as of ethnicity these figures should 
not be considered an exact record of the relative prevalence of different 
ethnocultural ancestries. 43.1% of respondents gave a single response of 
Canadian / Canadien while a further 26.5% identified both Canadian / Canadien 
and one or more other ethnocultural ancestries. 10.4% of respondents gave 
a single response of French, 1.1% gave a single response of Portuguese, 
1.0% gave a single response of Irish, 0.9% gave a single response of Lebanese, 
0.8% gave a single response of English, 0.7% gave a single responses of 
Québécois and 0.7% gave a single response of North American Indian. According 
to Statistics Canada, counting both single and multiple responses, the 
most commonly identified ethnocultural ancestries were: 70.7% North American, 
37.8% French, 14.3% British Isles, 4.5% Aboriginal, 4.0% Southern European, 
3.8% Western European, 1.9% Arab, 1.7% Eastern European, 1.0% East and 
Southeast Asian, 0.8% African, 0.7% Latin, Central and South American, 
0.7% Caribbean and 0.5% Northern European. The larger communities within 
