Donald Eugene "Gene" Conley (born November 10, 1930) is a former Major 
League Baseball pitcher who played eleven seasons from 1952 to 1963 for 
four different teams. Conley also played forward in the 1952–53 season 
and from 1958 to 1964 for two teams in the National Basketball Association. 
He is best known for being one of only two people (the other being Otto 
Graham–1946 NBL and AAFC Championship, plus 3 more AAFC and 3 NFL championships) 
to win championships in two of the four major American sports, one with 
the Milwaukee Braves in the 1957 World Series and three Boston Celtics 
championships from 1959–61. Conley was born in Muskogee, Oklahoma. While 
still young, his family moved to Richland, Washington.[citation needed] 
He attended Richland High School, where he played multiple sports.[citation 
needed] He reached the all-state team in baseball and basketball and was 
the state champion in the high jump.[1] Conley attended Washington State 
University, where in 1950 he played on the Cougar team that reached the 
College World Series.[1][2] In basketball, Conley was twice selected honorable 
mention to the All-America team, leading the team in scoring with 20 points 
per game.[1] He was a first-team All-PCC selection in 1950. During the 
summer, Conley pitched semiprofessional baseball in Walla Walla, Washington, 
in which scouts from almost every Major League Baseball team came to recruit 
him.[1] He also was getting contract offers to play professional basketball 
from the Minneapolis Lakers and the Tri-Cities Blackhawks. At first he 
declined the offers, saying that his family didn't want him to sign any 
professional contracts until he finished school.[3] But the offers were 
getting bigger, and in August 1950 he signed a professional contract with 
the Boston Braves for a $3,000 bonus.[1] In 1949, he and his wife married. 
They are still married and have three children and seven grandchildren.[4] 
Conley attended spring training in 1951 and was assigned to Hartford of 
the Eastern League by the request of former Braves star Tommy Holmes, who 
was managing the club.[5] After a month, Conley had a record of five wins 
and only one loss and was praised by observers in the league, saying that 
he had the best fastball since former pitcher Van Lingle Mungo played in 
the league in 1933.[6] On June 10, he threw a one-hitter against Schenectady 
Blue Jays, giving up the lone hit in the seventh inning.[7] Holmes was 
promoted to manager of the Braves on June 25, and was replaced by future 
Baseball Hall of Famer Travis Jackson.[8] By August 1, Conley had a record 
of 16 wins with only three losses, leading the league.[9] He was unanimously 
selected to the Eastern League All-Star team on August 29.[10] He received 
the Eastern League MVP award that season after he became the first player 
in Hartford history to win twenty games in a single season.[11] In the 
beginning of the 1952 season, Conley, along with fellow rookies George 
Crowe and Eddie Mathews, was invited to spring training with a chance of 
making the roster.[12] Around that time, the United States Army was drafting 
for the Korean War. Many major and minor league players were selected to 
fight in the war, depleting team rosters. Conley was deferred because of 
his height (6'8'), which was above the Army maximum height for a soldier.[13] 
In 11 seasons pitching for the Braves, Phillies and Red Sox, Conley posted 
a 91–96 with 888 strikeouts and a 3.82 ERA in 1588.2 innings. Conley was 
the winning pitcher in the 1955 All-Star Game and was selected for the 
1954 and 1959 games. In the middle of his first season of professional 
baseball, Conley agreed to sign with the Wilkes-Barre Barons of the struggling 
American Basketball League.[14] Conley played in the National Basketball 
Association for six seasons—four seasons for the Boston Celtics and two 
for the New York Knicks. Conley helped more in a backup role as a strong 
rebounder averaging 6.3 rebounds per game in only 16.5 minutes of playing 
time. "When I look back, I don't know how I did it, I really don't", Conley 
said. "I think I was having so much fun that it kept me going. I can't 
remember a teammate I didn't enjoy."[15] When Abe Saperstein's American 
Basketball League was born in 1961, Tuck Tape Company owner Paul Cohen 
purchased a franchise, gave it the Tapers name, and placed it in Washington. 
Conley signed with the team. With the Tapers, Conley often accompanied 
Cohen on sales calls for his company and gained industry experience.[16] 
After his retirement from professional sports, Conley started working for 
a duct tape company in Boston, Massachusetts.[17] After a year working 
there, the owner of the duct tape company died. Conley later founded his 
own paper company, Foxboro Paper Company, which he owned for 36 years until 
he retired from the business. Until December 2009, Conley lived in Clermont, 
Florida, where he played golf and watched the Orlando Magic play in his 
free time. He moved to his vacation home in Waterville Valley, New Hampshire, 
in 2010.[17] In 2004, his wife released a biography of him called One of 
a Kind that chronicled his life in both baseball and basketball and related 
how his family dealt with his being gone for most of the year.[18] Conley 
is the last living player to have played for both the Boston Red Sox and 
Boston Braves. As of June 2016, Conley is also one of just eleven living 
