Eugene Walter Baker (June 15, 1925 – December 1, 1999) was an American 
Major League Baseball infielder who played for the Chicago Cubs and Pittsburgh 
Pirates during eight seasons between 1953 and 1961, and was selected for 
the National League team in the 1955 All-Star Game. He threw and batted 
right-handed, and was listed at 6 feet 1 inch (1.85 m), 170 pounds (77 kg). 
A native of Davenport, Iowa, Baker starred on the basketball and track 
teams at Davenport High School, and played sandlot baseball, then went 
into the United States Navy, being stationed at Ottumwa Naval Air Station 
and Iowa Pre-Flight School. After his release from the Navy, he played 
for the Kansas City Monarchs of the Negro American League as their regular 
shortstop during 1948 and 1949.[1] In 1950, Baker joined the Cubs' organization, 
playing briefly at Springfield and Des Moines before joining the Los Angeles 
Angels, of the Triple-A and Open Classification Pacific Coast League, where 
he impressed all with his fielding and baserunning. Bobby Bragan, manager 
of the Angels’ chief rivals, the Hollywood Stars, said Baker was "as good 
a shortstop as I’ve ever seen – and that includes Pee Wee Reese."[1] The 
Cubs purchased Gene Baker's contract and he made his major league debut 
September 20, 1953. A few days after acquiring Baker, the Cubs acquired 
another shortstop, future Hall of Famer Ernie Banks, and moved Baker to 
second base, perhaps believing he would be able to adapt to a different 
position more easily than the younger Banks. He primarily played second 
base for the Cubs and Pirates during eight seasons. He was a reserve infielder 
for the 1960 World Series champion Pirates and made three pinch-hit appearances 
during the Series.[2] In 1961, Baker became the first African-American 
manager in Organized Baseball when the Pirates named him skipper of their 
Batavia Pirates farm club in the New York–Penn League.[3] In 1962, he became 
the first black coach in Organized Baseball when the Pirates named him 
player-coach of their Triple-A International League affiliate Columbus 
Jets.[4] In 1963, the Pirates promoted him to coach on the Major League 
team.[5] He was the second black coach in the big leagues, following Buck 
O'Neil by a half-season. Baker then spent many years as a scout for the 
Pirates. He died in Davenport at the age of 74. He is buried in Rock island 
