George Vecsey (born July 4, 1939 in Jamaica, Queens)[1] is an American 
non-fiction author and sports columnist for The New York Times. Vecsey 
is best known for his work in sports, but has co-written several autobiographies 
with non-sports figures. He is also the older brother of fellow sports 
journalist, columnist, and former NBATV and NBA on NBC color commentator 
Peter Vecsey. Vecsey has written about such events as the FIFA World Cup 
and the Olympics and on a wide variety of sports including tennis, football, 
basketball, hockey, soccer, and boxing, but considers baseball, the sport 
he’s covered since 1960, his favorite sport,[2] and has written more books 
about baseball than any other sport. He is the author of more than a dozen 
books, including Baseball: A History of America’s Favorite Game and Loretta 
Lynn: Coal Miner’s Daughter (with American country singer Loretta Lynn), 
which was made into an Academy Award-winning film. Vecsey has also served 
as a national and religion reporter for The New York Times,[3] interviewing 
the Dalai Lama, former British prime minister Tony Blair, American Christian 
evangelist Billy Graham, and a host of other noteworthy figures.[4] In 
addition to assisting Loretta Lynn, Vecsey has also helped several other 
celebrities and high-profile figures write their autobiographies, including 
American country singer Barbara Mandrell and Chinese human rights activist 
Harry Wu. His work in this field has ranged from co-writing credits, to 
being listed as a contributor (as in Lynn's Coal Miner's Daughter), to 
being listed as a consultant. Vecsey's baseball books cover several different 
periods of the game. In The Rivals, he covers the entire history of the 
Yankees – Red Sox rivalry from the first half of the century up until recent 
years. He has also written books exclusively about modern baseball history 
such as McGwire and Sosa, about the home run record chase by Mark McGwire 
and Sammy Sosa that took place in 1998, and Subway 2000, about the New 
York Mets and New York Yankees Subway Series that took place in 2000. Vecsey 
also authored a chapter of the literary hoax Naked Came the Stranger. His 
Baseball: A History of America's Favorite Game (Modern Library, 2006) is 
a concise history of the game of professional baseball. In 2011, ESPN published 
"Stan Musial: An American Life," Vecsey's biography of twenty-time All-Star 
and St. Louis Cardinals icon Stan Musial. Reviewing the book, George Will 
wrote, "At long last, George Vecsey has taken Musial's measure in this 
delightful biography of a man and a baseball era."[5] Tim Kurkjian, Senior 
Writer for ESPN Magazine and analyst for ESPN’s Baseball Tonight and SportsCenter, 
said that the book was "a fascinating and profound look at the most underrated 
great player of all time, and one of the true gentlemen of the game."[5] 
Eight World Cups: My Journey through the Beauty and Dark Side of Soccer 
is scheduled to be published in May, 2014.[6] Vecsey is the older brother 
of New York Post sports columnist Peter Vecsey and the father of Laura 
Vecsey, the Harrisburg Patriot-News political columnist; David Vecsey, 
a copy editor at The New York Times Magazine; and Corinna Vecsey Wilson, 
president of the consulting firm Wilson500, Inc. Vecsey received a B.A. 
degree from Hofstra University in 1960. He was awarded an honorary doctorate 
from Hofstra in 1990.[1] Unlike many other well-known sports columnists, 
Vecsey does not often appear on television.[7] Vecsey lives in Port Washington, 
