As player As manager George Wright (January 28, 1847 – August 21, 1937) 
was an American pioneer in the sport of baseball. He played shortstop for 
the original Cincinnati Red Stockings, the first fully professional team, 
when he was the game's best player. In 1868, Wright won the Clipper Medal 
for being the best shortstop in baseball. He was elected to the Baseball 
Hall of Fame in 1937. He was one of five men to play regularly for both 
the Cincinnati and the Boston Red Stockings, the latter winning six championships 
during his eight seasons to 1878. On April 22, 1876, he became the first 
batter in National League history, and grounded out to the shortstop. Elder 
brother Harry Wright managed both Red Stockings teams and made George his 
cornerstone; the brothers are now both in the Hall of Fame. George helped 
define the shortstop position and on-field teamwork, but his main work 
as a sporting developer came after retiring from baseball. After arriving 
in Boston he entered the sporting goods business, soon under the name Wright 
& Ditson's. There he continued in the industry, assisting in the development 
of golf, tennis, and hockey.[1][2] Born in Yonkers, New York, twelve years 
younger than Harry, George Wright was raised as a cricket "club pro", assisting 
their father (Samuel Wright) as Harry had done. Before George's birth, 
Samuel Wright's St George's Cricket Club moved from Manhattan across the 
Hudson River to Elysian Fields, Hoboken, New Jersey, where many New York 
and New Jersey base ball clubs played in the 1850s. Both boys learned base 
ball, too, but George grew up with the "national game" and was barely in 
his teens when the American Civil War curtailed its boom; Harry was already 
twenty-two when the baseball fraternity convened for the first time, and 
thirty when the war ended. Wright was the father of tennis great Beals 
Wright, a U.S. Championship winner and Olympic gold medalist, and Irving 
Wright, U.S. Championship men's doubles champion. At some times during 
the war, both Wright brothers played for the venerable Gothams, the second 
eldest baseball team after the Knickerbockers. According to Ivor-Campbell 
(1996), George moved from the Gotham juniors to the senior team when he 
was fifteen. At seventeen in 1864 he was the regular catcher. Baseball's 
recovery from the American Civil War was far advanced in greater New York 
City (always untouched by the military conflict), as the leading clubs 
played more than twenty NABBP matches, the Gothams eleven. George played 
eight and led the team both in runs, scoring 2.4 times per game, and "hands 
lost", put out only 2.4 times per game, average being three per player 
in a 9-inning game. In seven matches infielder Harry was fourth in scoring 
at 2.0 and second behind George in hands lost at 2.6 (Wright 2000: 91). 
For the 1865 season George was hired by the Philadelphia Cricket Club; 
that summer he played in five matches for the Olympic Ball Club of that 
city. The Olympic club was the devoted to games in the base ball genus, 
established in 1833. At the December annual meeting, the first in peacetime, 
National Association of Base Ball Players membership tripled, including 
isolated clubs from as far as Fort Leavenworth, Kansas and Chattanooga, 
Tennessee. Wright returned to the Gothams for base ball; he was nineteen 
and nearing his athletic peak. At the same time, Harry Wright moved to 
Cincinnati for a job at the Union Cricket Club. Early in the summer of 
1866, Wright moved from catcher for Gotham, which played eight NABBP matches 
that year, to shortstop for Union, which played 28, the leading number. 
The Union of Morrisania, now in the New York borough of the Bronx, were 
another charter member of the first Association, but one that moved toward 
professionalism in the postwar years, as the Gothams did not. In 1867, 
he joined the Nationals of Washington, D.C., eldest club in that city, 
whose approach to professionalism was arranging government jobs, mainly 
with the Treasury. He played second base, shortstop, and pitcher in 29 
of the 30 matches fully on record and in those matches led the team both 
in scoring and hands lost. Next year he returned to the Unions for the 
association's last officially all-amateur season and moved permanently 
to the shortstop position. Meanwhile, brother Harry had acquired baseball 
duties and had organized for Cincinnati the strongest team in the West, 
led in 1868 by a handful of players from the East—presumably compensated 
somehow by club members if not by the club. When the NABBP permitted professionalism 
for 1869, Harry augmented himself and four incumbents with five new men 
including brother George, who was highest paid at $1400 for nine months. 
George remained a cornerstone of Harry's teams for ten seasons. Cincinnati 
toured the continent undefeated in 1869, as George batted .633 with 49 home 
runs in 57 games. It may have been the strongest team in 1870, but the 
club dropped professional base ball after the second season. Harry Wright 
was hired to organize a new team in Boston, where he signed three teammates 
including George for 1871. He brought along the nickname, too; if the nickname 
is the tenth man or the player-manager counts double, Harry thereby composed 
half the team that just missed winning the first National Association pennant. 
George suffered a broken leg and missed half the season; one more win at 
the right time would have been decisive in Boston's favor. With some personnel 
changes, the Boston Red Stockings won the other four NA pennants, dominating 
so severely in 1875 that they helped provoke a new league. The team trailed 
badly in the first National League season, after the defection of its Big 
Four western players to Chicago, but rebounded to win again both 1877–78. 
George Wright had played an even decade for Harry's teams, beginning with 
the First Nine and closing with six league championships in seven. (Another 
1869 hire, Andy Leonard, was present for all but the 1871 second-place 
finish.) The Providence Grays, new in the NL for 1878, hired George to 
lead the team in 1879. He did as well as possible, wresting the championship 
for himself from older brother Harry; for Providence and Rhode Island from 
older and regionally dominant Boston and Massachusetts. But Wright & Ditson 
Sporting Goods was growing, so George returned to Boston for business reasons. 
He remains the only man to win the pennant in his lone season as manager.[3] 
Meanwhile, the National League introduced the reserve list system, and 
Providence listed George, so he was not free to sign with Boston. (Until 
the 1879–80 off-season, every professional baseball player was a "free 
agent" for every season.) During the next two seasons he played only a 
few games.. When Boston changed managers for 1882, Harry signed to lead 
Providence and inherited the right to sign his brother. George agreed to 
play another season full-time, retiring after the 1882 season with a .302 
batting average in the major leagues from 1871. In 1882 George Wright took 
up cricket seriously again with the Longwood Cricket Club of Boston where 
he dominated local cricket sides with Isaac Chambers, the Longwood cricket 
pro and greenskeeper, holding up the other bowling end. In 1891 George 
Wright captained the Longwood Cricket Club against Lord Hawke's visiting 
English side. Wright's side surprised the visiting English first-class 
players with accurate bowling which kept the tourist in check. In 1892 
George Wright donated cricket gear to British Guianese (Guyana) cricket 
players thereby starting a century old tradition of West Indian cricket 
in New England.[4] Wright holds the NA career record for the most triples 
(41), and he led the NA in triples with 15 in 1874. George was elected 
to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1937 and inducted by the Cincinnati Reds 
Hall of Fame in 2005. Elder brother Harry is another member of both Halls. 
Unfortunately, the official National "Hall of Fame Biography" of George 
credits him with "piloting" six championship teams in Boston, which was 
Harry's achievement, beside managing his one Providence champion (NBHOFM 
a).[5] Younger brother Sam Wright also played baseball professionally, 
with brief appearances in the major leagues. George Wright served on the 
1906–1907 Mills Commission that identified Cooperstown, New York as the 
birthplace of baseball. President Mills and secretary Sullivan probably 
did the work, with the others lending gravity and celebrity. Wright lived 
long enough to be consulted regarding the baseball centennial celebrations 
of 1939, including the establishment of the National Baseball Hall of Fame 
and Museum in Cooperstown. Soon after his own election, he died in Boston 
of a stroke, aged 90. He is buried in Holyhood Cemetery, in Brookline, 
Massachusetts. Wright also laid out New England's – and America's – first 
public golf course, Boston's Franklin Park in 1890. Wright and Ditson Sporting 
Goods imported and sold golf clubs; early U.S. Open champion Francis Ouimet 
worked at the store while pursuing his amateur career. Wright later donated 
the 156 acres (0.63 km2), the former Grew estate, for Boston's second municipal 
course which became the Donald Ross-designed George Wright Golf Course 
