George Ames Plimpton (March 18, 1927 – September 25, 2003) was an American 
journalist, writer, literary editor, actor and occasional amateur sportsman. 
He is widely known for his sports writing and for helping to found The 
Paris Review. He was also famous for "participatory journalism" which included 
competing in professional sporting events, acting in a Western, performing 
a comedy act at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas, and playing with the New York 
Philharmonic Orchestra[1] and then recording the experience from the point 
of view of an amateur. Plimpton[2] was born in New York City on March 18, 
1927, and spent his childhood there, attending St. Bernard's School and 
growing up in an apartment duplex on Manhattan's Upper East Side located 
at 1165 Fifth Avenue.[3] During the summers, he lived in the hamlet of 
West Hills, Huntington, Suffolk County on Long Island.[3][3] He was the 
son of Francis T.P. Plimpton,[4] and the grandson of Frances Taylor Pearsons 
and George Arthur Plimpton.[5][6][7][8][9][10] His grandfather was the 
founder of the Ginn publishing company and a philanthropist.[11] His father 
was a successful corporate lawyer and partner of the law firm Debevoise 
and Plimpton. He was appointed by President John F. Kennedy as U.S. deputy 
ambassador to the United Nations serving from 1961–65.[12] His mother was 
Pauline Ames,[13] the daughter of botanist Oakes Ames and artist Blanche 
Ames. Both of Plimpton's maternal grandparents were born with the surname 
Ames; his mother was the granddaughter of Medal of Honor recipient Adelbert 
Ames, an American sailor, soldier, and politician, and Oliver Ames, a US 
political figure and the 35th Governor of Massachusetts (1887–1890). She 
was also the great-granddaughter on her father's side of Oakes Ames (1804–1873), 
an industrialist and congressman who was impeached in the Crédit Mobilier 
railroad scandal of 1872; and Governor-General of New Orleans Benjamin 
Franklin Butler, an American lawyer and politician who represented Massachusetts 
in the United States House of Representatives and later served as the 33rd 
Governor of Massachusetts.[14] George had three siblings: Francis Taylor 
Pearsons Plimpton Jr., Oakes Ames Plimpton,[15] and Sarah Gay Plimpton. 
Plimpton attended St. Bernard's School, Phillips Exeter Academy (where 
he was expelled just shy of graduation), and Daytona Beach Mainland High 
School, where he received his high school diploma[16] before entering Harvard 
College in July 1944. He wrote for the Harvard Lampoon, was a member of 
the Hasty Pudding Club, Pi Eta, the Signet Society, and the Porcellian 
Club. He majored in English. Plimpton entered Harvard as a member of the 
Class of 1948, but did not graduate until 1950 due to intervening military 
service. He was also an accomplished birdwatcher.[citation needed] Plimpton's 
studies were interrupted by military service lasting from 1945 to 1948, 
during which he served as a tank driver in Italy for the U.S. Army. After 
graduating from Harvard, he attended King's College at Cambridge University 
in England. He studied there from 1950–52 and graduated with third class 
honors, BA in English.[17] In 1953, Plimpton joined the influential literary 
journal The Paris Review, founded by Peter Matthiessen, Thomas H. Guinzburg, 
and Harold L. Humes, becoming its first editor in chief. This periodical 
carries great weight in the literary world, but has never been financially 
strong; for its first half-century, it was allegedly largely financed by 
its publishers and by Plimpton. Two articles by Richard Cummings, "An American 
in Paris" (The American Conservative) and "The Fiction of the State" (Lobster), 
disclose that the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) provided funds for 
The Paris Review, using publisher Sadruddin Aga Khan's foundation as a 
conduit, and that Plimpton was an "agent of influence" for the CIA. Peter 
Matthiessen took the magazine over from Harold Humes and ousted him as 
editor, replacing him with Plimpton, using it as his cover for his CIA 
activities. Plimpton was associated with the literary magazine in Paris, 
Merlin, which folded because the State Department withdrew its support.[why?] 
Future Poet Laureate Donald Hall, who had met Plimpton at Exeter, was Poetry 
Editor. One of the magazine's most notable discoveries was author Terry 
Southern, who was living in Paris at the time and formed a lifelong friendship 
with Plimpton, along with future classical and jazz pioneer David Amram.[citation 
needed] Outside the literary world, Plimpton was famous for competing in 
professional sporting events and then recording the experience from the 
point of view of an amateur.[citation needed] In 1958, prior to a post-season 
exhibition game at Yankee Stadium between teams managed by Willie Mays 
(National League) and Mickey Mantle (American League), Plimpton pitched 
against the National League. His experience was captured in the book Out 
of My League. (He intended to face both line-ups, but tired badly and was 
relieved by Ralph Houk.) Plimpton sparred for three rounds with boxing 
greats Archie Moore and Sugar Ray Robinson, while on assignment for Sports 
Illustrated.[citation needed] In 1963, Plimpton attended preseason training 
with the Detroit Lions of the National Football League as a backup quarterback, 
and ran a few plays in an intrasquad scrimmage. These events were recalled 
in his best-known book Paper Lion, which was later adapted into a feature 
film starring Alan Alda, released in 1968. Plimpton revisited pro football 
in 1971,[18] this time joining the Baltimore Colts and seeing action in 
an exhibition game against his previous team, the Lions. These experiences 
served as the basis of another football book, Mad Ducks and Bears, although 
much of the book dealt with the off-field escapades of football friends 
such as Alex Karras and Bobby Layne. Another sports book, Open Net, saw 
him train as an ice hockey goalie with the Boston Bruins, even playing 
part of a National Hockey League preseason game.[citation needed] Plimpton's 
classic The Bogey Man chronicles his attempt to play professional golf 
on the PGA Tour during the Nicklaus and Palmer era of the 1960s. Among 
other challenges for Sports Illustrated, he attempted to play top-level 
bridge, and spent some time as a high-wire circus performer.[citation needed] 
Some of these events, such as his stint with the Colts, and an attempt 
at stand-up comedy, were presented on the ABC television network as a series 
of specials. After being demolished at tennis by Pancho Gonzales, he wrote 
that he considered himself to be a fairly accomplished tennis player and 
that the drubbing by Gonzales was the most surprising of his ventures against 
the great athletes of his time.[citation needed] In 1994 Plimpton appeared 
several times in the Ken Burns series Baseball where he shared some personal 
baseball experiences as well as other memorable events throughout the history 
of baseball.[citation needed] In the April 1, 1985 issue of Sports Illustrated, 
Plimpton pulled off one of the greatest April Fool's Day pranks of all 
time. With the help of the New York Mets organization and several Mets 
players, Plimpton wrote a convincing account of a new unknown pitcher in 
the Mets spring training camp named Siddhartha Finch who threw a baseball 
over 160 mph, wore a heavy boot on one foot, and was a practicing Buddhist 
with a largely unknown background. The prank was so successful that many 
readers believed the story, and the ensuing popularity of the joke resulted 
in Plimpton writing an entire book on Finch. A personal friend of the New 
England Sedgwick family, Plimpton edited Edie: An American Biography with 
Jean Stein in 1982. He also appeared in a brief interview footage about 
Edie Sedgwick in the DVD extra for the film Ciao! Manhattan. In addition, 
he appeared in the PBS American Masters documentary on Andy Warhol. Plimpton 
also appeared in the closing credits of the 2006 film, Factory Girl. [19] 
Plimpton also appeared in a number of feature films as an extra and in 
cameo appearances. He had a small role in the Oscar-winning film Good Will 
Hunting, playing a psychologist. Plimpton played Tom Hanks's antagonistic 
father in Volunteers. He was also notable for his appearance in television 
commercials during the early 1980s, including a memorable campaign for 
Mattel's Intellivision. In this campaign, Plimpton aggressively touted 
the superiority of Intellivision video games over those of competitors 
such as the Atari 2600. He hosted Disney Channel's Mouseterpiece Theater 
(a Masterpiece Theatre spoof which featured classic Disney cartoon shorts). 
He appeared in an episode of The Simpsons, "I'm Spelling as Fast as I Can", 
as host of the "Spellympics". He attempts to talk Lisa Simpson into losing 
the spelling bee with the offer of a college scholarship at a Seven Sisters 
College and a hot plate, claiming "it's perfect for soup!" He had a recurring 
role as the grandfather of Dr. Carter on the long-running NBC series ER. 
He also appeared in an episode of the NBC sitcom Wings. Plimpton appeared 
in the 1989 documentary The Tightrope Dancer which featured the life and 
the work of the artist Vali Myers. He was one of her original supporters 
and had published an article about her work in The Paris Review. He also 
appeared in the 1996 documentary When We Were Kings about the "Rumble in 
the Jungle" 1974 Ali-Foreman Championship fight opposite Norman Mailer 
crediting Muhammad Ali as a poet who composed the world's shortest poem: 
"Me? Whee!!" Plimpton was a member of the cast of the A&E TV series A Nero 
Wolfe Mystery (2001–02). In 2013, the documentary Plimpton! Starring George 
Plimpton as Himself was released. It was directed by Tom Bean and Luke 
Poling. The film used archival audio and video of Plimpton lecturing and 
reading to create a posthumous narration.[citation needed] Plimpton was 
a demolitions expert in the post-World War II Army. After returning to 
New York from Paris, he routinely fired off fireworks at his evening parties.[20] 
His enthusiasm for fireworks grew, and he was appointed Fireworks Commissioner 
of New York by Mayor John Lindsay,[20][21] an unofficial post he held until 
his death.[2] In 1975, in Bellport, Long Island, Plimpton attempted to 
break the record for the world's largest firework.[22][23][24] His firework, 
a Roman candle named "Fat Man",[22][23][24] weighed 720 pounds (330 kg)[22] 
and was expected to rise to 1,000 feet (300 m)[24] or more[22] and deliver 
a wide starburst.[23] When lit, the firework remained on the ground and 
exploded, blasting a crater 35 feet (11 m) wide and 10 feet (3.0 m) deep.[24] 
A later attempt, fired at Cape Canaveral, rose approximately 50 feet (15 m) 
into the air and broke 700 windows in Titusville, Florida.[20] With Felix 
Grucci, Plimpton competed in the 16th International Fireworks Festival 
in 1979 in Monte Carlo. After several problems with transporting and preparing 
the fireworks, Plimpton and Grucci became the first competitors from the 
United States to win the event.[21] Plimpton later wrote the book Fireworks, 
and hosted an A&E Home Video with the same name featuring his many fireworks 
adventures with the Gruccis of New York in Monte Carlo and for the 1983 
Brooklyn Bridge Centennial.[2] A November 6, 1971, cartoon in The New Yorker 
by Whitney Darrow, Jr. shows a cleaning lady on her hands and knees scrubbing 
an office floor while saying to another one: "I'd like to see George Plimpton 
do this sometime." In another cartoon in The New Yorker, a patient looks 
up at the masked surgeon about to operate on him and asks, "Wait a minute! 
How do I know you're not George Plimpton?"[25] A feature in Mad Magazine 
titled "Some Really Dangerous Jobs for George Plimpton" spotlighted him 
trying to swim across Lake Erie, strolling through New York's Times Square 
in the middle of the night, and spending a day with Jerry Lewis.[citation 
needed] Plimpton was married twice.[2] His first wife, whom he married 
in 1968[26] and divorced in 1988, was Freddy Medora Espy, a photographer's 
assistant. She was the daughter of writers Willard R. Espy[27] and Hilda 
S. Cole, who had, earlier in her career, been a publicity agent for Kate 
Smith and Fred Waring.[28] They had two children: Medora Ames Plimpton 
and Taylor Ames Plimpton, who has published a memoir entitled Notes from 
the Night: A Life After Dark. In 1992, he married Sarah Whitehead Dudley, 
a graduate of Columbia University and a freelance writer.[29] She is the 
daughter of James Chittenden Dudley,[30] a managing partner of Dudley and 
Company, a Manhattan-based investment management firm and geologist Elisabeth 
Claypool. James and Elisabeth established the 36-acre (15 ha) Highstead 
Arboretum in Redding, Connecticut. George and Sarah were the parents of 
twin daughters, Laura Dudley Plimpton and Olivia Hartley Plimpton.[citation 
needed] At Harvard, Plimpton was a classmate and close personal friend 
of Robert Kennedy. Plimpton, along with former decathlete Rafer Johnson 
and American football star Rosey Grier, was credited with helping wrestle 
Sirhan Sirhan to the ground when Kennedy was assassinated following his 
victory in the 1968 California Democratic primary at the former Ambassador 
Hotel in Los Angeles. Plimpton died on September 25, 2003 in his New York 
City apartment from an apparent heart attack. He was 76.[2] An oral biography 
titled George, Being George was edited by Nelson W. Aldrich Jr., and released 
on October 21, 2008. The book offers memories of Plimpton from among other 
writers, such as Norman Mailer, William Styron, Gay Talese and Gore Vidal, 
and was done with the cooperation of both his ex-wife and his widow.[citation 
needed] In the movie Plimpton! Starring George Plimpton As Himself, the 
writer James Salter said of Plimpton that "he was writing in a genre that 
really doesn't permit greatness."[31] In 2006, the musician Jonathan Coulton 
wrote the song entitled "A Talk with George", a part of his 'Thing A Week' 
series, in tribute to Plimpton's many adventures and approach to life.[32] 
Plimpton is the protagonist of the semi-fictional George Plimpton's Video 
Falconry, a 1983 ColecoVision game postulated by humorist John Hodgman 
and recreated by video game auteur Tom Fulp.[33] Researcher and writer 
Samuel Arbesman filed with NASA to name an asteroid after George Plimpton; 
