The Yellow Jackets is the name used for all of the intercollegiate athletic 
teams that play for the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta, Georgia, 
United States. The teams have also been nicknamed the Ramblin' Wreck, Engineers, 
Blacksmiths and Golden Tornado. There are 8 men's and 7 women's teams that 
compete in the NCAA Division I athletics and the Football Bowl Subdivision. 
Georgia Tech is a member of the Coastal Division in the Atlantic Coast 
Conference. The official school colors for Georgia Tech are old gold and 
white. Navy blue is often used as a secondary color and for alternate jerseys 
while black has been used on rare occasion. The traditional rival in all 
sports is in-state University of Georgia. This rivalry is often referred 
to as Clean, Old-Fashioned Hate. There are also rivalries with out-of-state 
Auburn and official conference rival Clemson. The athletic department is 
run by the Georgia Tech Athletic Association, a private organization located 
on campus. The department dedicates about $53 million per year to its sports 
teams and facilities. Since April 1, 2013, the athletic director of Georgia 
Tech has been Mike Bobinski, who replaced Dan Radakovich after the latter 
left for the same position at Clemson.[2] Most athletic teams have on-campus 
facilities for competition, including Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant 
Field for football, the McCamish Pavilion at Cremins' Court for men's and 
women's basketball, and Russ Chandler Stadium for baseball. Georgia Tech 
was a founding member of the Southern Intercollegiate Athletic Association 
in 1895. Georgia Tech was one of the 14 schools that split to found the 
Southern Conference in 1921. Thirteen schools including Georgia Tech split 
in 1932 to form the Southeastern Conference.[3] The Yellow Jackets left 
the SEC in 1964 and remained independent until becoming a founding member 
of the Metro-6 Conference in 1975.[4] Georgia Tech moved to the ACC in 
1978 and began competition within the ACC in 1979.[4] The Georgia Institute 
of Technology sponsors teams in nine men's and eight women's NCAA sanctioned 
sports:[5] Men's intercollegiate sports Women's intercollegiate sports 
The football team is traditionally the most popular at the Institute. The 
games are played at Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field or simply 
The Flats, which is the oldest on-campus stadium in Division I FBS football. 
The stadium was expanded in recent years, increasing the maximum capacity 
to 55,000. Georgia Tech plays an Atlantic Coast Conference Coastal Division 
schedule in addition to yearly cross divisional games against Clemson[6] 
and two other Atlantic Division teams. In addition, the team has a yearly 
out-of-conference meeting with Georgia at the end of the season known as 
Clean, Old-Fashioned Hate. The football team is in the top 20 winningest 
Division I-A programs and was the first team to win all four of the historical 
big four bowls – the Rose (1929), Orange (1940), Sugar (1944), and Cotton 
(1955). Georgia Tech has won four national titles in the years 1917 going 
9–0 under John Heisman outscoring opponents 419–17,[7] 1928 going 10–0 
under William Alexander outscoring opponents 221–47, 1952 going 12–0 under 
Bobby Dodd outscoring opponents 325–59, and 1990 going 11–0–1 under Bobby 
Ross outscoring opponents 379–186.[8] The Yellow Jackets have won a total 
of 15 conference titles. They won 5 SIAA titles in 1916, 1917, 1918, 1920, 
and 1921; 3 Southern Conference titles in 1922, 1927, and 1928; 5 SEC titles 
in 1939, 1943, 1944, 1951, 1952, and the 1990, 1998 and 2009 ACC championships 
along with the 2006 ACC Coastal Division Championship. Paul Johnson and 
Georgia Tech won the 2009 ACC Championship in Tampa Florida. The team has 
played in 35 bowl games, posting a record of 22–13. The resulting win percentage 
of 0.629 is currently the second-highest among teams with over 20 bowl 
appearances.[8] The most recent head coach is former Dallas Cowboys head 
coach Chan Gailey. In five seasons, Chan Gailey posted a 37–27 record, 
5 straight bowl berths, and a 2–3 record in bowl games.[needs update] Chan's 
5 straight bowl appearances have the Jackets at 10 in a row overall, an 
active streak tied for 5th longest in the nation.[9][needs update] Chan 
Gailey was fired on Monday, November 26, 2007. A nationwide search for 
a new head coach then began, which was ended when highly regarded Navy 
coach Paul Johnson was hired on December 9, 2007.[10] Three Jacket players 
were named to the ACC 50th Anniversary Team in 2002: Marco Coleman, OLB; 
Joe Hamilton, QB; and Ken Swilling, DB. Some notable and more recent Georgia 
Tech football players are three-time All-American Calvin Johnson, Keith 
Brooking, Joe Burns, Marco Coleman, Joe Hamilton, Tony Hollings, Dorsey 
Levens, and Arizona Cardinals head coach Ken Whisenhunt. Three Atlantic 
Coast Conference Players of the Year hailed from Georgia Tech. They were 
Joe Hamilton (1999), Calvin Johnson (2006), and Jonathan Dwyer (2008). 
The Georgia Tech men's basketball team plays its home games in the new 
McCamish Pavilion The program saw its most sustained success under the 
tenure of Bobby Cremins. Bobby Cremins led his team to the first ACC tournament 
victory in school history in 1985, and in 1990 he took Georgia Tech to 
the school's first Final Four appearance ever. Cremins retired from Georgia 
Tech in 2000 with the school's best coaching win percentage. The current 
head coach of Georgia Tech is Brian Gregory. Up until March 2011, Paul 
Hewitt was the head coach Georgia Tech. Helping revitalize a stagnant program 
in 2004, he led Georgia Tech to a Cinderella season as the school earned 
its second berth in a NCAA national title game in any sport. That team 
won the Pre-Season NIT, ended Duke's 41 game home winning streak, and finished 
its season losing by 9 points in the national title game to Connecticut. 
Hewitt was fired on March 12, 2011 after having three losing seasons over 
the previous four years.[11] Some notable and more recent Georgia Tech 
basketball players are Iman Shumpert, Derrick Favors, Anthony Morrow, Javaris 
Crittenton, Thaddeus Young, Stephon Marbury, Matt Harpring, Dennis Scott, 
Kenny Anderson, Travis Best, Chris Bosh, Jarrett Jack, Mark Price, and 
John Salley. Like the men's team, the women's basketball team plays its 
home games in McCamish Pavilion. The current women's coach is MaChelle 
Joseph. Baseball is a very successful sport at Georgia Tech. The baseball 
team makes its home at Russ Chandler Stadium and is one of the premier 
baseball teams in the NCAA. Georgia Tech baseball is notable for its high-scoring 
offenses and stout defenses. The team's success is guided by head coach 
Danny Hall. Danny Hall has coached Tech for 13 seasons and has posted 579 
wins over that span. He has led Georgia Tech to 12 years of NCAA regional 
play and its only three College World Series appearances in 1994, 2002, 
and 2006. The baseball team, under Hall, has become an annual contender 
for the ACC regular season and tournament titles winning each four and 
three times respectively. Some notable and more recent Georgia Tech baseball 
players are Kevin Brown, Nomar Garciaparra, Matt Murton, Kevin Cameron, 
Matt Wieters, Eric Patterson, Brandon Boggs, Jay Payton, Mark Teixeira, 
and Jason Varitek.[12] Jason Varitek's number 33 is one of two numbers 
retired, Coach Jim Luck's number 44 is the other. Georgia Tech fields a 
softball team under coach Shelly Hoerner.[13] In 2011, the team won their 
third straight ACC Regular Season title. Also in 2011, Sharon Perkins was 
named the ACC Coach of the Year; this is her third consecutive year winning 
that award, the first ACC coach win it in three consecutive years.[14][15] 
In 2009, the team moved from Glenn Field to Shirley Clements Mewborn Field. 
Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets men's golf team is one of the most consistent 
Yellow Jacket teams. They have won 17 conference championships:[16] They 
have produced three NCAA individual champions: Watts Gunn in 1927, Charlie 
Yates in 1934, and Troy Matteson in 2002.[16] Their best team finish is 
second place in 1993, 2000, 2002, and 2005. The men's golf team made the 
NCAA Championship round ten straight years (1998–2007) under Bruce Heppler, 
head coach since 1996. In 2005, the program was rated by Golf Magazine 
as the #1 collegiate golf program in the country. Some notable Georgia 
Tech golfers are David Duval, Stewart Cink, Troy Matteson, Larry Mize, 
Bryce Molder, Cameron Tringale and Matt Kuchar. The most famous alumnus 
of the golf program however remains legendary amateur Bobby Jones, winner 
of the Grand Slam in 1930 and the founder of Augusta National Golf Club 
and the Masters Tournament, a major championship hosted annually by Augusta 
National. Georgia Tech has both men's and women's tennis teams. The women's 
tennis team became the first NCAA National Champion in Georgia Tech team 
sports history by winning 4–2 over UCLA in Athens, Georgia on May 22, 2007.[17][18] 
The 2007 National Championship team was coached by Bryan Shelton. The men's 
team has won six conference titles since 1918 (one in the SIAA, two in 
the SoConn, and three in the SEC). The men's tennis team is currently coached 
by Kenny Thorne, and assisted by Derek Schwandt.[19] Georgia Tech Women's 
Volleyball is one of the newer additions to Georgia Tech's athletic department, 
having only been started in the past twenty years. Despite the program's 
youth, it has been a dominant force in the ACC.[citation needed] O'Keefe 
Gymnasium has served as the home of the Georgia Tech volleyball team since 
1995.[20] Georgia Tech volleyball has become a powerful, perennial ACC 
title contender and NCAA tournament qualifier. Tech has been in the NCAA 
tournament three times in recent years and has set several school records 
for victories in a season, consecutive ACC victories, and consecutive victories. 
Georgia Tech also fields men and women's track & field,[21] men and women's 
swimming & diving,[21] men and women's cross country, and assorted club 
sports. Georgia Tech's Angelo Taylor won gold medals in 400 m hurdles at 
the 2000 and 2008 Summer Olympics. The non-NCAA sanctioned club sports 
include but are not limited to crew, cricket, cycling, equestrian, fencing, 
field hockey, gymnastics, ice hockey, kayaking, lacrosse, paintball, roller 
hockey, rowing, rugby, sailing, skydiving, soccer, swimming, triathlon, 
ultimate, water polo, and wrestling. Costumed in plush to look like a yellow 
jacket, the official mascot of Georgia Tech is Buzz. Buzz enters the football 
games at the sound of swarming yellow jackets and proceeds to do a flip 
on the fifty-yard line GT logo. He then bull rushes the goal post and has 
been known to knock it out of alignment before football games. Buzz is 
also notorious for crowd surfing and general light-hearted trickery amongst 
Tech and rival fans. The Ramblin' Wreck was the first official mascot of 
Georgia Tech. It is a 1930 Ford Model A Sports Coupe. The Wreck has led 
the football team onto the field every home game since 1961. The Wreck 
features a gold and white paint job, two gold flags emblazoned with the 
words "To Hell With Georgia" and "Give 'Em Hell Tech", and a white soft 
top. The Wreck is maintained by the Ramblin' Reck Club, a selective student 
leadership organization on campus. The Ramblin' Reck Club is charged with 
upholding all school traditions and creating new traditions such as the 
SWARM. The SWARM is a 900-member spirit group seated along the north end 
zone or on the court at basketball games. This is the group that typically 
features body painting, organized chants, and general fanaticism. The marching 
band that performs at halftime and after big plays during the football 
season is clad in all white and sits next to SWARM at football games providing 
a dichotomy of white and gold in the North End Zone. The band is also the 
primary student organization on campus that upholds the tradition of RAT 
caps, wherein band freshman wear the traditional yellow cap at all band 
events. The band plays the fight songs Ramblin' Wreck from Georgia Tech 
and Up With the White and Gold after every football score and between every 
basketball period. At the end of a rendition of either fight song, there 
is a series of drum beats followed by the cheer "Go Jackets" three times 
(each time followed by a second cheer of "bust their ass"), then a different 
drum beat and the cheer "Fight, Win, Drink, Get Naked!" The official cheer 
only includes "Fight, Win" but most present other than the band and cheerleaders 
will yell the extended version. It is also tradition for the band to play 
the "When You Say Budweiser" after the third quarter of football and during 
the second-to-last official timeout of every basketball game. During the 
"Budweiser Song", all of the fans in the stadium alternate bending their 
knees and standing up straight. Other notable band songs are Michael Jackson's 
Thriller for half-time at the Thrillerdome, Ludacris' Move Bitch for large 
gains in football. Another popular chant is called the Good Word and it 
begins with asking, "What's the Good Word?" The response from all Tech 
faithful is, "To Hell With Georgia." The same question is asked three times 
and then the followup is asked, "How 'bout them dogs?" And everyone yells, 
"Piss on 'em." Georgia Tech has won 1 NCAA team national championship.[22] 
Below are 4 national team titles that were not bestowed by the NCAA: Despite 
their highly technical backgrounds, Tech graduates are no strangers to 
athletics; approximately 150 Tech students have gone into the NFL, with 
many others going into the NBA or MLB. Well-known American football athletes 
include former students Calvin Johnson, Daryl Smith, and Keith Brooking, 
former Tech head football coaches Pepper Rodgers and Bill Fulcher, and 
all-time greats such as Joe Hamilton, Pat Swilling, Billy Shaw, Joe Guyon, 
and Demaryius Thomas. Tech's recent entrants into the NBA include Iman 
Shumpert, Derrick Favors, Javaris Crittenton, Thaddeus Young, Jarrett Jack, 
Luke Schenscher, Stephon Marbury, and Chris Bosh. Award-winning baseball 
stars include Kevin Brown, Mark Teixeira, Nomar Garciaparra, Jason Varitek, 
and Jay Payton. In golf, the legendary Bobby Jones founded The Masters, 
David Duval was ranked No. 1 in the world in 2001, Stewart Cink the 2009 
Open Championship winner, was ranked in the top ten, and Matt Kuchar won 
