George Christopher (December 8, 1907 – September 14, 2000) was a Greek-American 
politician, and the 34th Mayor of San Francisco, serving in that office 
from January 1956 until January 1964. He was, as of 2016, the last Republican 
to be elected mayor of San Francisco; all San Francisco mayors since he 
left office have been Democrats. Born George Christophes in Arcadia, Greece, 
the son of James and Mary (née Koines) Christophes. He and his family emigrated 
to the United States in 1910 and settled in San Francisco's South of Market 
Street neighborhood, then known as "Greektown", when Christopher was two 
years old. Christopher left day school at the age of fourteen when his 
father James died, and he became sole support of his family. He sold papers, 
then talked his way into a job at the San Francisco Examiner as a copy 
boy. In 1935, he married Tula Sarantitis, daughter of a baker for whom 
George did bookkeeping. After studying accounting at Golden Gate College, 
from which he earned a BA in Accounting in 1930, he worked for numerous 
small firms keeping their accounts and eventually bought out a small dairy 
on Fillmore Street, which became the Christopher Dairy. A liberal Republican,[1] 
Christopher began his political career in 1945 when he was elected to the 
San Francisco Board of Supervisors; on re-election, he became board president. 
Christopher ran for Mayor in 1951 and lost to incumbent mayor Elmer Robinson, 
but was eventually elected mayor in November 1955, taking office the following 
January. He hosted the Republican National Convention at the Cow Palace 
in August 1956 which renominated President Dwight D. Eisenhower. He was 
re-elected in 1959 for a second term. Christopher was instrumental in bringing 
the New York Giants baseball team to San Francisco in 1958 (where they 
became the San Francisco Giants) and in securing the funding to build Candlestick 
Park, on the abandoned lands of Sunset Scavenger on Candlestick Point; 
the ballpark opened for the Giants 1960 season. His administration has 
been credited with the building of the Brooks Hall, twelve new schools, 
seventeen firehouses, six public swimming pools, the five-story Fifth and 
Mission and the underground Civic Center garages.[2] Christopher was known 
for his strong stand on civil rights; his childhood experience of anti-Greek 
sentiment informed his stand. He gained worldwide headlines offering his 
home to Willie Mays after it was reported that a Forest Hill realtor had 
refused to sell to Mays. Christopher also lobbied and succeeded in opening 
mental health and alcohol treatment centers under city funding. Christopher 
presided over the redevelopment of major portions of city and private lands, 
labeled slums, some not without controversy; Embarcadero Center and Golden 
Gateway, displacing the old wholesale produce market from the filled land 
southeast of Telegraph Hill to the Alemany location where it remains, Japantown 
and the Fillmore urban renewal that displaced the African-American and 
the remnants of the Jewish Community for concrete highrises, the new Hall 
of Justice and the opening of the Embarcadero Freeway, which blocked the 
Embarcadero and Ferry Building from the city, spawning the first Freeway 
Revolt. Another controversial issue was the loss of the historic Fox Theatre 
movie palace on Market Street at Polk Street. In early 1963, the owners 
of the Fox closed the theatre, and offered it for sale to the city of San 
Francisco for $1,050,000. Mayor Christopher turned this down, and demolition 
of the Fox proceeded; by August, the theatre was gone. Theatre historians 
worldwide agree that the San Francisco Fox was one of the most magnificent 
movie palaces ever constructed. Movie palace fans still mourn the theatre's 
loss over 45 years later, longer than the building actually existed. In 
Christopher's second term, the House Subcommittee on Un-American Activities 
held hearings in the City Hall supervisor's chambers. A large group of 
students and active citizens were fire-hosed down the marble steps inside 
City Hall rotunda by the San Francisco Police Department when they protested 
their exclusion from admission to committee hearings. Christopher later 
told the Federal Government they were no longer welcome in city buildings, 
but he sided with the committee and spoke for the propaganda newsreel-style 
film made by the committee about the event titled, Operation Abolition,[3][4][5][6] 
that blamed Communists for the so-called City Hall riot of May 13, 1960. 
Christopher was criticized for endorsing the film while saying that "at 
least 90% of the students were not organized by the Communists."[7] Christopher 
ran for lieutenant governor when Richard Nixon ran for governor, and U.S. 
Senate. He lost the 1966 Republican primary for Governor of California 
