George Frederick Will (born May 4, 1941) is a Pulitzer Prize–winning conservative 
political commentator. In 1986, The Wall Street Journal called him "perhaps 
the most powerful journalist in America", in a league with Walter Lippmann 
(1889–1974).[3][4] Will was born in Champaign, Illinois, the son of Frederick 
L. Will and Louise Hendrickson Will.[5] His father was a professor of philosophy, 
specializing in epistemology, at the University of Illinois. Will graduated 
from University Laboratory High School of Urbana, Illinois, and Trinity 
College in Hartford, Connecticut (BA, Religion, 1962).[6] He subsequently 
studied Philosophy, Politics, and Economics at Magdalen College, Oxford, 
(BA, MA). Upon leaving Oxford, Will gave up plans to attend Harvard Law 
School and continued his studies at Princeton University from which he 
received MA and PhD degrees in politics. His 1968 PhD dissertation was 
entitled Beyond the Reach of Majorities: Closed Questions in the Open Society. 
From 1970 to 1972, he served on the staff of Republican Senator Gordon 
Allott of Colorado. Will then taught political philosophy at the James 
Madison College of Michigan State University, and at the University of 
Toronto. He taught at Harvard University in 1995 and again in 1998. Will 
served as an editor for National Review from 1972 to 1978.[citation needed] 
He joined the Washington Post Writers Group in 1974, writing a syndicated 
biweekly column, which became widely circulated among newspapers across 
the country and continues today. His column is syndicated to 450 newspapers.[7] 
In 1976 he became a contributing editor for Newsweek, writing a biweekly 
backpage column until 2011.[citation needed] Will won a Pulitzer Prize 
for Commentary for "distinguished commentary on a variety of topics" in 
1977.[8] Often combining factual reporting with conservative commentary, 
Will's columns are known for their erudite vocabulary, allusions to political 
philosophers, and frequent references to baseball.[9] Will has also written 
two bestselling books on the game of baseball, three books on political 
philosophy, and has published eleven compilations of his columns for The 
Washington Post and Newsweek and of various book reviews and lectures.[citation 
needed] Will is currently a contributor for Fox News.[10] Prior to joining 
Fox News in 2013, Will was a news analyst for ABC News since the early 
1980s and was a founding member on the panel of ABC's This Week with David 
Brinkley in 1981, now titled This Week with George Stephanopoulos. Will 
was a panelist on This Week until his departure from ABC News. Will was 
also a regular panelist on television's Agronsky & Company from 1977 through 
1984 and on NBC's Meet the Press in the mid-to-late 1970s.[citation needed] 
Will once proposed that the United States withdraw all troops from Afghanistan,[11] 
and defended Barack Obama's response to the uprisings after the 2009 elections 
in Iran.[12] He also criticized the Bush administration for engaging in 
warrantless surveillance,[13] and supported trials for detainees at the 
Guantanamo Bay prison camp. On immigration, Will supports tighter border 
security and a "path to citizenship" for illegal immigrants.[14] Will argued 
that the Roe v. Wade Supreme Court decision caused a "truncation of democratic 
debate about abortion policy."[15] On crime, Will is opposed to the death 
penalty.[16] He thinks that higher incarceration rates make the populace 
safer.[17] Additionally, Will is generally skeptical of affirmative action 
programs.[18] Will favors the legalization of drugs.[19] Will supports 
low taxes, as he thinks that they stimulate economic growth and are more 
morally fair.[20] He was opposed to both George W. Bush and Barack Obama's 
stimulus plans.[21] Will supports abolishing the minimum wage [22] and 
creating voluntary personal retirement accounts in order to reduce the 
federal cost of Social Security.[23] In February 2013, Will wrote in support 
of a proposal by "relentlessly liberal" Sherrod Brown to break up consolidated 
banks and finance industry conglomerates, ending "too big to fail" by restoring 
the Glass-Steagall Act.[24] While identified with conservative politics, 
Will has criticized a number individuals and policies associated with the 
Republican Party and American conservatism. He was among the first to oppose 
President George W. Bush's nomination of Harriet Miers to the United States 
Supreme Court.[25] Will was hawkish in the run-up to the invasion of Iraq 
in 2003, and he expressed reservations about Bush administration Iraq policies. 
He eventually criticized what he said was an unrealistically optimistic 
set of political scenarios. In March 2006, in a column written in the aftermath 
of the apparently sectarian bombing of the Askariya Shrine in Samarra, 
Baghdad, Will challenged the Bush administration—and U.S. government representatives 
in Iraq—to be more honest about the difficulties the United States faced 
in rebuilding and maintaining order within Iraq, comparing the White House's 
rhetoric unfavorably to that of Winston Churchill during the early years 
of World War II. Will described the optimistic assessments delivered from 
the Bush administration as the "rhetoric of unreality".[26] He criticized 
the Bush Iraq policy, and broader White House and congressional foreign 
and domestic policy making, in his keynote address for the Cato Institute's 
2006 Milton Friedman Prize dinner.[27] Will was also a harsh and early 
critic of both Sarah Palin and John McCain's 2008 election campaign. He 
criticized Palin's understanding of the role of the Vice President and 
her qualifications for that role.[28] In late 2011, as the 2012 Republican 
Party presidential primaries approached, Will said that frontrunner Newt 
Gingrich "embodies almost everything disagreeable about modern Washington", 
and described him as "the classic rental politician."[29] While speaking 
at Yale University on January 17, 2013, Will criticized conservative commentator 
Ann Coulter, labeling her an "enemy" to conservatives' pursuit of an intellectual 
brand.[30] In a 2013 interview with Reason Magazine writers Nick Gillespie 
and Matt Welch, Will revealed that his views have steadily been leaning 
more libertarian over time.[31] Will has argued against campaign finance 
reform as "a euphemism for controlling free speech."[32][better source needed] 
Will has criticized Donald Trump various times during Trump's 2016 presidential 
campaign, calling him a "one-man Todd Akin," later calling on conservatives 
to "condign punishment for his comprehensive disdain for [Trump's] conservative 
essentials."[33] Trump, in turn, criticized Will and brought attention 
to the fact that his wife Mari Maseng Will was an advisor to Scott Walker's 
presidential campaign. Will criticized Trump again, saying Trump was a 
bigger threat than Hillary Clinton. In June 2016, citing his disapproval 
of Trump, Will said he had left the Republican party and was registered 
as an unaffiliated voter.[34] Will helped Ronald Reagan prepare for his 
1980 debate against Jimmy Carter. Immediately after the debate, Will—not 
yet a member of the ABC News staff—appeared on ABC's Nightline. He was 
introduced by host Ted Koppel, who said "It's my understanding that you 
met for some time yesterday with Governor Reagan", and that Will "never 
made any secret of his affection" for the Republican candidate. Will did 
not explicitly disclose that he had assisted Reagan's debate preparation, 
or been present during it. He went on to praise Reagan, saying his "game 
plan worked well. I don't think he was very surprised".[35] In 2004 and 
again in 2005, Carter accused Will of giving the Reagan campaign a top-secret 
briefing book stolen from Carter's office before the 1980 debate.[36] In 
a 2005 syndicated column, Will called his role in Reagan's debate preparation 
"inappropriate" but denied any role in stealing the briefing book.[37] 
In response to Will's column, Carter wrote a letter to the Washington Post 
retracting his accusations. Carter apologized to Will for "any incorrect 
statement that I have ever made about his role in the use of my briefing 
book...I have never thought Mr. Will took my book, that the outcome of 
the debate was damaging to my campaign or that Mr. Will apologized to me".[38] 
In a Washington Post column which expressed doubt over the effects of global 
warming, Will stated that: "According to the University of Illinois' Arctic 
Climate Research Center, global sea ice levels now equal those of 1979".[39] 
This and several other claims attracted the attention of environmentalists, 
such as British author and activist George Monbiot.[40] Asked to respond, 
the website of Arctic Climate Research at the University of Illinois states 
that: "We do not know where George Will is getting his information, but 
our data shows that on February 15, 1979, global sea ice area was 16.79 
million sq. km and on February 15, 2009, global sea ice area was 15.45 
million sq. km. Therefore, global sea ice levels are 1.34 million sq. km 
less in February 2009 than in February 1979".[41] Will responded in a column 
that he accurately reported the Center's information and the challenge 
was mistaken.[42] This drew a second response from George Monbiot, who 
insisted Will had not accurately reported the Center's information.[43] 
The debate continued in several forums, including a subsequent op-ed by 
Chris Mooney published in The Washington Post challenging Will's assertions.[44] 
Will's June 6, 2014, newspaper column about "the supposed campus epidemic 
of rape" was widely criticized,[45] with Democratic U.S. senators and feminists 
taking Will to task. Wrote Will, "...when [colleges and universities] make 
victimhood a coveted status that confers privileges, victims proliferate."[46] 
Will's column sparked an outcry on Twitter, with professed rape victims 
recounting their stories of sexual assault and violence.[47] "It takes 
a particular kind of ignorance to argue that people who come forward to 
report being raped in college are afforded benefits of any kind," wrote 
Jessica Valenti in The Guardian."[48] In an open letter to Will, Senators 
Richard Blumenthal, Dianne Feinstein, Tammy Baldwin and Bob Casey wrote, 
"Your column suggests that we — including some of us who have worked on 
this issue for many years – all have missed a subculture on college campuses 
where survivors of sexual assault are inducted into a privileged class. 
The culture you described is so antiquated, so counter-intuitive and so 
contrary to anything we heard that we hope you will make an effort to hear 
the stories survivors bravely shared with us about the struggles they face 
in addressing what has happened to them — often with little meaningful 
assistance from authorities expected to help them."[49] The St. Louis Post-Dispatch 
dropped Will's column from its pages as a result of the column. "The column 
was offensive and inaccurate; we apologize for publishing it," editor Tony 
Messenger wrote.[50] Will responded to the senators in his blog, saying 
his article was based on "simple arithmetic involving publicly available 
reports", and that sexual assault "should be dealt with by the criminal 
justice system, and not be adjudicated by improvised campus processes".[51] 
In 2014, Will claimed that Ebola could be spread via sneezing, contrary 
to widely accepted evidence which says that Ebola can only be spread by 
direct contact with infected bodily fluids.[52] The comments occurred in 
a context of Republican criticism of the Obama administration's handling 
of the 2014 Ebola virus epidemic in West Africa. Politifact rated Will's 
claim as "False".[53] In 2015, following the release of Bill O'Reilly's 
book, Killing Reagan, Will opined that the book contained poorly sourced, 
inaccurate information that disparaged President Ronald Reagan. Describing 
the book as "...a tissue of unsubstantiated assertions," and O'Reilly as 
"...an opportunistic interloper", Will concluded, "O’Reilly’s vast carelessness 
pollutes history and debases the historian’s craft."[54] The feud escalated 
when Will appeared on O'Reilly's show, The O'Reilly Factor, during which 
O'Reilly accused Will of libel.[55] The interview ended with O'Reilly calling 
Will "...a hack and a liar."[56] Will has three children—Victoria, Geoffrey, 
and Jonathan—with his first wife, Madeleine;[57] their eldest child,[58] 
Jonathan was born in 1972 with Down syndrome, which Will has written about 
in his column on occasion.[59][60][61] In 1989, he and Madeleine divorced 
after 22 years of marriage.[62] In 1991, Will married Mari Maseng. They 
have one child, a son named David, born in 1992, and live in the Washington, 
D.C. area. Maseng is a political consultant and speechwriter who was in 
charge of communications for the Rick Perry 2012 presidential campaign, 
and most recently worked on Scott Walker's 2016 presidential campaign. 
She earlier worked on Michele Bachmann's 2012 presidential campaign, and 
offered her services to the Mitt Romney 2012 campaign.[63][64] She previously 
worked for Ronald Reagan as a presidential speechwriter, deputy director 
of transportation, and Assistant to the President for Public Liaison. She 
also was a former communications director for Bob Dole. Will is a self-described 
"amiable, low voltage atheist."[65][66] Will, a Chicago Cubs fan,[67][68] 
has written extensively on baseball, including his best-selling book Men 
at Work: The Craft of Baseball. He was one of the interview subjects for 
Ken Burns' PBS documentary series Baseball. Will was lampooned in a skit 
on an April 1990 episode of the sketch comedy show Saturday Night Live. 
Dana Carvey played Will as the host of the fictional baseball trivia game 
show George F. Will's Sports Machine, in which the answers are all highflown 
literary metaphors that leave the contestants befuddled; the exasperated 
contestants finally get Will to try to throw a baseball, which he is unable 
to do.[69] In the 1995 Seinfeld episode "The Jimmy", Kramer mentions Will 
during a conversation with Jerry, George, and Elaine about men finding 
other men attractive. While Jerry and George say they "can't find beauty 
in a man", Kramer says, "I'll tell you who is an attractive man ... George 
Will."[70] However, when Elaine suggests that Will is smart, Kramer says 
"No, no I don't find him all that bright."[71] In the 1997 Duckman episode 
Vuuck, as in Duck, wherein Duckman inherits a AAA baseball team, Cornfed 
brings Will in as a 3rd base coach. However, while he is showing Duckman 
his coach signals, Will is hit by a breeze block and is not seen again. 
In the 2006 Simpsons episode "The Monkey Suit", Lisa names Will and Pope 
John Paul II as prominent conservatives who accept the theory of evolution, 
to which Ralph Wiggum replies, "the George Will?" In the 2006 30 Rock episode 
"Jack-Tor", Tracy glances at a newspaper in an elevator and observes, "Damn, 
George Will just gets more and more conservative"; this moment, which Tracy 
does not realize Liz has witnessed, directly contradicts his claim that 
he is an illiterate needing to leave work early for tutoring. In addition 
