George Washington Stovey (May 1866 – March 22, 1936) is considered the 
best African-American baseball pitcher of the 19th century, but discrimination 
barred him from the majors and led him to move from team to team until 
he had no further opportunities to play in the minors. According to an 
1892 recollection by Pat Powers, who managed Stovey in Jersey City in the 
Eastern League, the New York Giants in 1886 attempted to acquire Stovey. 
but Cap Anson helped stop the arrangement. The alleged episode is examined 
at length in a 2006 book featuring Anson, which could not find any contemporaneous 
reporting to the above effect. The author concludes, "Powers's story may 
be mixed up with a contemporaneously reported controversy, late in the 
1886 season, involving the signing of a white pitcher playing for Newark, 
John 'Phenomenal' Smith."[1] In 1907, black player-turned-sportswriter 
Sol White alluded to a supposed effort in 1887 by New York to sign Stovey, 
and not to the 1886 effort noted as above. White, writing in a baseball 
book bearing his name, said "arrangements were about completed for his 
transfer from the Newark club, when a brawl was heard from Chicago to New 
York. The same Anson, with all the venom of hate which would be worthy 
of a (Benjamin) Tillman or a (James) Vardaman of the present day, made 
strenuous and fruitful opposition to any proposition looking to the admittance 
of a colored man in the National League." In prefacing his story, White 
said, "Were it not for this same man Anson, there would have been a colored 
player in the National League in 1887." [2] It is possible that White muffed 
the above issue, as Powers arguably had done. But, in any case, there is 
interesting 1887 reporting involving Stovey. On April 9, 1887, the Newark 
Journal said New York Giants manager Jim Mutrie offered to buy Stovey and 
teammate and fellow black Moses Fleetwood Walker, who were now both with 
Newark of the International League, "but [Newark] Manager [Charley] Hackett 
informed him they were not on [sic] sale."[3] The day before that report, 
Newark and New York had met at the Polo Grounds, and Stovey and Walker 
had played (New York Sun, April 8, 1887). Presumably, Mutrie made his offer 
after the seeing the game. If so, since a single day elapsed between the 
game and the offer's rejection by Newark manager Hackett, it is highly 
unlikely that Anson, who was in St. Louis, would have weighed in. In addition, 
Stovey was part of a far more acute controversy leading up to the 1887 
season. It involved Newark and Jersey City, and reveals that Newark had 
no interest in selling him during the period in which White blamed Anson.[4] 
Anson and Stovey did cross paths later in 1887, when, according to contemporaneous 
reporting, on July 14, 1887, following a vote that morning by International 
League owners to approve no more contracts with black players, in a home 
exhibition game against Chicago that afternoon, Newark's Stovey and fellow 
black teammate Walker sat out because of Anson's objection. Both Stovey 
and Walker had played on July 11. The day of the Chicago game, the Newark 
News listed Stovey as the scheduled pitcher. Then, in its recap, it said, 
"Stovey was to have pitched for Newark, but he complained of sickness, 
and so [Micky] [sic] Hughes was substituted." Stovey did not play again 
until July 17, and Walker not until July 26. (Newark Journal, July 12 to 
July 27, 1887; Newark News, July 14–15, 1887.)[5] A few days after the 
game with Chicago, the Newark Sunday Call said, "Stovey was expected to 
pitch in the Chicago game. It was announced on the ground [sic] that he 
was sulking, but it has since been given out that Anson objected to a colored 
man playing. If this be true, and the crowd had known it, Mr. Anson would 
have received hisses instead of the applause that was given him when he 
first stepped to the bat.(Newark Sunday Call, July 17, 1887; New York Telegram, 
July 18, 1887.)[6] In 1889 he pitched for both the Cuban Giants, based 
at Trenton, New Jersey, and the New York Gorhams, based in Philadelphia. 
In 1891 he played for the Cuban Giants at Ansonia. These were all-black 
teams playing in organized baseball in those two seasons. He also played 
