As player As manager George Stacey Davis (August 23, 1870 – October 17, 
1940) was an American professional baseball shortstop and manager in Major 
League Baseball at the turn of the 20th century. Davis also spent multiple 
seasons as a third baseman and center fielder, and lesser amounts of time 
at other positions. He broke into the major leagues in 1890 and played 
through 1909. He is ranked among the top 100 players of all-time in several 
statistical categories. Davis was a switch hitter. After his playing career, 
Davis managed the Amherst College baseball team for several years. He died 
in a mental institution, suffering the effects of syphilis. Not much was 
known about Davis's life or career until the 1990s, when he gained some 
recognition from the city historian of his hometown of Cohoes, New York. 
He was elected to the Hall of Fame by the Veterans Committee in 1998. Born 
on August 23, 1870 in Cohoes, New York, Davis was one of seven children 
born to Abram and Sarah Davis. His father had immigrated from Wales and 
his mother came from England.[1] Davis was playing amateur baseball in 
Albany when he was 16 years old and he could bat from both sides of the 
plate.[2] By 1889, Davis was on a team of semiprofessional and amateur 
players near the Hudson River in Albany. The squad was managed by Tom York, 
a former major league player. York recommended Davis for major league service 
with the Cleveland Spiders. The team signed Davis for the 1890 season.[3] 
Davis patrolled center field for the first two seasons of his career, leading 
the National League (NL) in outfield assists with 35 in 1890. He made three 
brief appearances as a pitcher in 1891, giving up seven earned runs in 
four innings and recording one save. That year he was among the league's 
top ten players in hits, doubles, triples, total bases, runs batted in 
(RBI), plate appearances and assists as an outfielder.[4] Davis never appeared 
as a pitcher again, but his strong arm did lead the team to move him to 
third base in 1892, a position he played for the next five seasons. His 
batting average dropped almost 50 points to .241 in 1892, but he recorded 
82 RBI and 36 stolen bases.[4] The Spiders traded Davis to the New York 
Giants for aging star Buck Ewing shortly before the 1893 season, and Davis 
blossomed in New York City. With league rules moving the pitcher's mound 
back to 60 feet, 6 inches that season, offensive totals jumped across the 
league, and Davis was at the forefront of the surge. He compiled a .355 
batting average and set career highs with 27 triples and 11 home runs. 
He also collected 22 doubles and 37 stolen bases, while scoring 112 runs 
and driving in 119. He became the first player to hit a triple and a home 
run in the same inning. Davis continued to perform at an elite level throughout 
the 1890s, regularly ranking among the league leaders in doubles, triples, 
RBI, and stolen bases. He had a batting average of more than .300 for nine 
consecutive seasons beginning in 1893. He began playing more shortstop 
in 1896 and moved to the position full-time the next season. In 1897, Davis 
hit .353 and registered a league-best 135 RBI. He led the league in double 
plays and fielding percentage four times each.[4] During his playing career, 
Davis enjoyed a reputation as an intelligent and hard-working player who 
did not participate in dirty play.[5] On their way to practice at the Polo 
Grounds on April 26, 1900, Davis and teammates Kid Gleason and Mike Grady 
stumbled upon a raging tenement fire. The players rushed into the building 
and rescued two women and a three-year-old child. The fire left 45 families 
homeless. Davis said, "I didn't do much. I just went up the ladder the 
same as the rest of the boys and helped to carry down women and children... 
I didn't do half as much as Grady and Gleason." His face blistered from 
the heat, Davis helped his team earn a 10–10 tie with the Boston Beaneaters 
that evening. The formation of the American League provided new financial 
opportunities to ballplayers, and induced by a $4,000 salary, Davis jumped 
to the Chicago White Sox in 1902. He attempted a return to the Giants the 
following season for a further raise to $6,700 (the second-highest figure 
in the league, after that of Nap Lajoie), but was prevented by the implementation 
of a peace agreement between the warring leagues. Davis sat out the bulk 
of the 1903 season before returning to the White Sox, with whom he spent 
the remainder of his career. His raw offensive statistics from this time 
pale before those of his earlier career, but when properly compared to 
a drastic league-wide decline in offense, they remain impressive. Davis 
stole home in Game 5 of the 1906 World Series for the champion White Sox. 
He also had three runs batted in for the Sox in the title-clinching Game 
6 against the crosstown Chicago Cubs. His decline began for real in 1907, 
though, and he retired after the 1909 season. His career totals in several 
statistical categories rank in the top 100 players all-time, including 
games played, at bats, hits, runs, doubles, triples, RBI and stolen bases. 
Davis returned to the minor leagues for one season as player-manager of 
the 1910 Des Moines Boosters.[6] He managed a bowling alley in the early 
1910s. He was the Amherst College baseball coach from 1913 to 1918, then 
he became a car salesman.[3] The circumstances of his death remained a 
mystery until baseball historian Lee Allen discovered its details through 
a campaign to track down historical baseball players, run in part in The 
Sporting News. Davis was admitted to a Philadelphia mental institution 
in 1934 suffering from paresis due to tertiary syphilis. He died in the 
institution in 1940.[3] Davis was survived by his wife Jane, who was said 
to have been angry at him when he died. They had no children. His wife 
spent $41 to have him buried within a day at nearby Fernwood Cemetery.[1] 
In a 1995 book, baseball author Bill James referred to Davis as baseball's 
best player who had not been inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame.[7] 
Also in 1995, Davis was featured in David Pietrusza's television film "Local 
Heroes" in the segment "Knocking on Cooperstown's Door." In 1997, baseball 
researcher Frederick Ivor-Campbell said that Davis was "the most neglected 
player of the 19th century. He's definitely the best eligible player not 
in the Hall, and he's a lot better than a lot of guys already in."[8] Around 
the same time, Davis was rated the 21st best baseball player of all time 
in the official baseball encyclopedia, Total Baseball.[8] Davis was up 
for a vote before the Hall of Fame's Veterans Committee in 1998. Before 
the committee voted, sportswriter Dave Anderson wrote an article in The 
New York Times on Davis's Hall of Fame candidacy. He pointed out the work 
of Cohoes city historian Walt Lipka, which favorably compared Davis to 
almost all of the shortstops in the Hall of Fame. Anderson supported Davis's 
election, saying, "It's as if he were discarded nearly a century ago into 
a time capsule that was forgotten until now... For too long, George Stacey 
Davis has been his era's most forgotten best player."[9] He was selected 
for induction that year.[4] Prior to his Hall of Fame induction, a Society 
for American Baseball Research (SABR) chapter in New York put out a call 
to locate a descendant of Davis to be present at the induction ceremony 
and announced plans for a historical marker in Cohoes.[10] As a great deal 
of time had passed since his death, no relatives could be located, but 
a group of about 50 people from Cohoes traveled to the ceremony in support 
