George Kalinsky is a photographer. He has been the official photographer 
for Madison Square Garden since 1966 and also serves as the official photographer 
at Radio City Music Hall. In November 2010 the National Arts Club awarded 
him their Medal of Honor for Photography.[1] Kalinsky's photos have been 
in many major publications, such as Sports Illustrated, People, Newsweek, 
and The New York Times. He is also a successful, award-winning author of 
ten books. In May 2009, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum opened 
an exhibit dedicated to photographs Kalinsky took at some of Madison Square 
Garden's most legendary concerts.[2] Many of these photographs are now 
part of the Museum's permanent collection. Beginning with the 2010 baseball 
season, the New York Mets, for whom Kalinsky had been the official photographer, 
are displaying throughout Citi Field many photographs by Kalinsky. Award-winning 
photographer George Kalinsky is one of the most famous image makers of 
our time… or any time. His lens has captured some of the most important 
faces, places, and events in the world of sports, entertainment, and politics. 
As the official photographer of Madison Square Garden and Radio City Music 
Hall, he has created many iconic images. Newsmakers such as Frank Sinatra, 
Muhammad Ali, Peggy Fleming, Pope John Paul II, Luciano Pavarotti, Patrick 
Ewing, Bill Russell, and Mariano Rivera have all stated that George Kalinsky 
has taken their favorite photograph. George has also captured the world’s 
greatest rock stars on the world’s greatest stage. His iconic shots of 
Elvis Presley, Aretha Franklin, James Brown, John Lennon, The Rolling Stones, 
Janis Joplin, Jimi Hendrix, Elton John, and Billy Joel are all displayed 
in the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame and Museum. Recently, a photo painting 
Kalinsky created of Michael Jordan became a special birthday gift for President 
Obama, given to him by the First Lady. Kalinsky’s honors and awards include 
the 2001 PMDA International Photographer of the Year (highest award in 
the photo industry), the National Center for Disabilities Sportsman of 
the Year (2001), the New York Board of Rabbis Man of the Year (2006), the 
National Jewish Sports Hall of Fame inductee (2007), the Pratt Institute 
Lifetime Achievement Award (2008), the National Arts Club Medal of Honor 
(2010), the New York City Basketball Hall of Fame inductee (2010), and 
the New York Knickerbockers Legacy Award (2015). Among the many venues 
in which his work has been exhibited are the Museum of Modern Art, the 
Metropolitan Museum of Art, the International Center of Photography, and 
The Olympus Plaza Gallery in Tokyo. His works are also part of the permanent 
collections of the National Baseball Hall of Fame, the Naismith Memorial 
Basketball Hall of Fame, the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame, Cornell University, 
the New York Governor’s Mansion, the Jewish Museum of New York, the Southern 
Vermont Arts Center, the National Museum of Dance and Hall of Fame, and 
Madison Square Garden. Since 2008, some of George’s most iconic photographs 
have been displayed on huge billboards in New York City’s Times Square, 
drawing the attention of millions of passers-by every day. In addition 
to his ten published books, which have sold more than 2 million copies, 
Kalinsky’s photos have also appeared in hundreds of other books, magazines, 
newspapers and web sites throughout the world. Currently, Frank Sinatra 
