Georgetown is a community in the town of Halton Hills, Ontario, Canada 
and is part of the Regional Municipality of Halton. It is situated on the 
Credit River, located approximately 60 km west of Toronto, making it part 
of the Greater Toronto Area. Georgetown takes its name from George Kennedy, 
who settled in the area in 1821. By 1650, the once plentiful Hurons had 
been wiped out by European diseases, and the Iroquois. The region was now 
open to the Algonquian Ojibwa (also known as Mississauga), who moved in. 
By 1850 the remaining Mississauga natives were removed to the Six Nations 
reserve, where the New Credit Reserve was established. Commencing in 1781, 
the British government purchased blocks of land from the Mississauga Nation. 
In 1818, they purchased land that later became the townships of Esquesing 
and Nassagaweya. The task of laying out the townships fell to Timothy Street 
and Abraham Nelles. Charles Kennedy was hired by Nelles to survey the northern 
part of the townships, and Charles Kennedy received a significant parcel 
of land as payment for his work. The brothers of Charles Kennedy, (John, 
Morris, Samuel and George) all acquired land close to each another in the 
Silver Creek Valley. A sawmill was built by Charles Kennedy where today 
Main Street meets Wildwood Road. George Kennedy also built a sawmill which 
became the centre of a small settlement, which was located near 10th line. 
Esquesing Village (Stewarttown) was the capital of the township. In addition, 
it was on the main north-south route to the steamships at Oakville. The 
Stewart Brothers had a prosperous mill in Esquesing Village, and James 
McNab had a prosperous mill in Norval. In 1828, John Galt, through the 
Canada Company, opened the road which connected the settlement around George 
Kennedy's Mill with the other two settlements in the area. As Kennedy's 
Mill prospered, he built a gristmill, foundry and a woolen mill. Unfortunately, 
business was poor, which led to the nickname 'Hungry Hollow'. Around 1834 
the Barber brothers arrived and within three years had purchased the mills 
from Kennedy. Around 1837, the area adopted the name Georgetown. It was 
also the year that two of the Barber Brothers (William and James) purchased 
the mill and land from George Kennedy. In May 1852 a rail route through 
Georgetown, Brampton and Weston to Toronto was announced. On May 13, 1895, 
brothers Sam & John McGibbon leased, in partnership, Thomas Clark's Hotel 
for $600/year. "The Hotel McGibbon" was originally built by Robert Jones 
and was sold to Clark in about 1867. A double veranda graced the Main & 
Mill Street side of the building until the hotel was ravaged by fire in 
the 1880s. After the fire, a third floor was added to part of the building. 
The McGibbon family lived at the hotel and took great pride in the business 
they had established. Sam's wife, Ann, kept white linen in the dining room, 
and in its earliest years had been a popular place for wedding receptions 
and banquets. When Sam McGibbon died August 20, 1940 (only a few months 
after Ann's death), a daughter, Gladys, and a son, Jack, took over the 
business until 1962. The McGibbon Hotel was sold to Isaac Sitzer Investments 
and in 1967 to Gladbar Hotels Ltd. George and Nick Markou purchased the 
hotel in 1978 and have run business to the present day under the McGibbon 
name, returning its connection to the downtown Georgetown business community 
since 1895. The Toronto Suburban Railway Company ran the Toronto-Guelph 
Electric Suburban Railway line through Georgetown for 14 years from the 
time it was opened in 1917 until it was closed in 1931. On July 1, 1923, 
50 orphans of the Armenian Genocide arrived in Georgetown, Ontario to be 
educated and trained for farming. The actual location was Cedarvale Farm 
now known as Cedarvale Park. They came to be known as The Georgetown Boys. 
In total, 109 boys and 40 girls were taken in by the Canadian government, 
considered by many to be Canada's first humanitarian initiative. Aris Alexanian 
was a teacher and assistant superintendent at the school. He went on to 
open an oriental rug store in Hamilton, Ontario, which has grown throughout 
Ontario and is now known as Alexanian Carpet and Flooring. The area had 
no early history of a concentration of French-Canadians, but that changed 
after World War II. First, in 1947, a boys' orphan farm relocated from 
St. Catharines, Ontario, to Georgetown. This orphanage was operated by 
Father Clovis Beauregard and his niece, Therese St Jean. The Acadian boys 
from the orphanage decided to remain here in adulthood. The boys had learned 
apple farming and other Acadian families moved here to assist them with 
their apple business. Second, in 1957 a French-Canadian Association was 
formed. By 1966, about 150 French-speaking Catholic families created their 
own parish when the old Holy Cross Church was rededicated as L'Eglise Sacre 
Coeur. On January 1, 1974, Georgetown became part of the Town of Halton 
Hills when it amalgamated with the Town of Acton and most of the Township 
of Esquesing. Together with the Town of Milton, the Town of Oakville and 
the City of Burlington, the Regional Municipality of Halton was formed, 
replacing Halton County. Halton Hills is well known for its terrain including 
slopes and inclines. In 1932, Bill Gauser proposed the idea to change the 
name from Halton to Halton Hills. Georgetown grew as new neighbourhoods 
were added. The oldest section is around Main Street and Church Street. 
The arrival of the railway produced a new section — around King Street 
and Queen Street. The Delrex subdivision was the third part of the town 
that was added. Shortly after Delrex, Moore Park was developed. In 1989, 
the Georgetown South development began and the town has grown considerably 
since that point. Delrex: In the 1950s, Rex Heslop, the builder of Rexdale 
in Toronto, built the Delrex subdivision. Delrex is a combination of Rex 
and his wife Delma's names. In the 1950s and 1960s this area was referred 
to as Georgetown East. Moore Park: With the growth of Delrex subdivision, 
a second subdivision called Moore Park appeared in 1962. Trafalgar Country: 
Added much later in the mid 1990s and early 2000s, Trafalgar country is 
mostly bungalows and two-story homes, and sits at the Westernmost point 
in Georgetown. Georgetown South: In 1989 the farm land south of Silver 
Creek became the newest subdivision of Georgetown, Georgetown South. The 
development was undertaken by primarily Fernbrook Homes (West of Mountainview) 
and Canada Homes (East of Mountainview). Additional developments include 
Arbour Glen, Stewart's Mills and the Four Corners. Not to be mistaken as 
the "Four Corners" of Hornby at Trafalgar Road and Steeles Avenue. Census 
data for Georgetown is not available from Statistics Canada, because it 
is considered a community within the town of Halton Hills. The town provides 
the following estimates for Georgetown:[1] Census data for periods prior 
to the amalgamation into the present Town are as follows: Georgetown's 
Sports teams include : [Georgetown Minor Hockey Association - Raiders] 
- In 2013, the Acton Tanners and the Georgetown Raiders Minor Hockey Association 
completed their merger to create the Halton Hills Thunder Minor Hockey 
Association. Georgetown Raiders Sr A competed in the OHA Senior A and Intermediate 
A ranks in the 1970s and 1980s. They are not connected to another Georgetown 
Raiders team which is currently a member of the Ontario Provincial Junior 
A Hockey League. Georgetown Highland Games The second Saturday in June, 
Georgetown is host to a variety of Scottish traditional games and celebrations. 
Farmers' market A farmers' market operates on Main St. in downtown Georgetown 
on Saturdays 8:00am – 12:30pm from June through October. The section of 
Main St. that hosts the market is closed off to vehicles during the event. 
Georgetown Fall Fair The Fall Fair was started in 1846. It is held the 
Friday to Sunday following the Labour Day Weekend. The annual event is 
held at the Georgetown Fairgrounds and consists mainly of carnival rides 
and rural contests, such as the tractor pull and demolition derby. The 
Georgetown Agricultural Society organizes and runs the fair each year. 
In 2003, the Fall Fair was the scene of a riot which broke out between 
local youth (approximately 500) and the Halton Regional Police force. There 
were several teens arrested and at least another half a dozen shot by rubber 
bullets during the riot. No major property damage occurred, only a portion 
of a small white picket fence was damaged. Conflict in the years following 
the event has so far been avoided.[3] Georgetown Santa Claus Parade The 
third Sunday in November, the evening parade begins at 5pm. Organized by 
the Georgetown Lions Club. Includes a variety of floats from local organizations 
and businesses, bands, and Santa Claus himself! The parade route is: Guelph 
Street from Sinclair to Mill Street and Charles Street to the Fairgrounds. 
These roads are closed to traffic from approximately 5:00-7:00pm. Georgetown 
Craft Beer Festival Also known as "Head For The Hills", this festival is 
held the third Saturday of the month in September, and runs from 11:00am-6:00pm 
at Trafalgar Sports Park. Organized by the Georgetown Lions Club, Georgetown 
Kiwanis Club, Georgetown Kinsmen Club, and Georgetown Rotary Club. The 
festival showcases craft brewers from across Ontario, gourmet food trucks, 
live music, and games. Public education in Georgetown is managed by the 
Halton District School Board, while Catholic education is managed by the 
Halton Catholic District School Board. Elementary Schools Catholic Christian 
French Public Middle Schools Public Secondary Schools Catholic Public Two 
buildings in Georgetown were designed by Toronto architect E.J. Lennox: 
Major industries with head offices and facilities in Georgetown include 
Mold-Masters Limited, CPI Canada, Eastwood Guitars, and Saputo. Other major 
industrial concerns include Cooper Standard, ADM Archer Daniels Midland 
Cocoa (was Ambrosia Chocolate),Howmet Georgetown Casting, a division of 
Alcoa Power and Propulsion and Kingsbury Technologies (Canada) Inc. The 
community also serves as the Canadian headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses. 
Georgetown has seen an explosion of population growth in the south. This 
has caused new business to appear including Tim Hortons, Neighbours, Metro, 
and many others. The Georgetown Marketplace is Georgetown's Mall. It has 
roughly 63 stores, including major companies such as WalMart. The mall 
is home to stores such as: Peoples Jewelers, Coles, Winners & Home Sense, 
and Ardene. The Bruce Trail goes through Halton Hills, passing north of 
Georgetown. The Town is developing a multi-purpose trail system in Hungry 
Hollow, on old railbeds and various other locations. A citizens group called 
HHORBA is trying to work with the Town in planning and constructing the 
trails to be as environmentally friendly, safe for hikers and enjoyable 
for bicyclists as possible. HHORBA helped construct a one trail and three 
bridges with members of the Bruce Trail. HHORBA in the past has been a 
member of the International Mountain Bicycling Association. Georgetown 
Skate Park Located outside of the Mold-Masters SportsPlex at 221 Guelph 
Street, this facility was made possible by the co-operative efforts of 
the Halton Hills Community through the Skateboarders, Inline Skaters & 
BMX Bikers of Halton Hills (S.I.B.A.H.H) Committee and the Recreation and 
Parks Department. Funding was provided through generous community donations 
and the Corporation of the Town of Halton Hills. The facility is user supervised 
and is managed through posted regulations. Gellert Community Centre Located 
on eighth line just north of 10 side road in South Georgetown. The facility 
contains a large indoor swimming pool and hosts various exercise classes 
plus other community events. Outside amenities include a splash pad, three 
baseball diamonds, soccer field, six tennis courts and park trails. The 
Halton Hills Public Library is a two-branch library system. Both branches 
reflect the historic character of the community. The Georgetown Branch 
(9 Church Street) is co-located with the Halton Hills Cultural Centre, 
anchored by the former Methodist Church (now the Art Gallery) and The John 
Elliott Theatre. The Acton Branch (17 River Street) was built as the community's 
centennial project in a park setting, across a foot bridge over a creek. 
Library Highlights[4] in 2007 include: On Saturday January 26, 2013 the 
renovated Georgetown Branch of the Halton Hills Public Library opened.[5] 
The renovations included making the library more accessible to the public 
as well as more environmentally friendly. Georgetown is covered by local 
newspapers and television through the following services: GO Transit and 
Via Rail serve Georgetown Station. There is no local bus service, although 
the Georgetown Halton Hills ActiVan provides local transportation for individuals 
with physical disabilities. GO Transit offers both bus and rail services 
through the Georgetown GO Station. The GO Transit Kitchener rail line runs 
between Toronto and Kitchener. The GO bus connects to many of the nearby 
communities including Brampton, Toronto, Acton, Guelph, and Kitchener. 
Georgetown is also linked to the Provincial Highway network by Highway 
7, and to Highway 401 by Trafalgar Road (Halton Regional Road 3), Mountainview 
Road/9th Line (Halton Regional Road 13) and Winston Churchill Boulevard 
(Halton Regional Road 19) There are no airports in Georgetown; the closest 
are Brampton Airport (general aviation) to the north and Toronto Pearson 
International Airport (domestic and international flights) to the east. 
Coordinates: 43°38′49″N 79°54′36″W﻿ / ﻿43.64694°N 79.91000°W﻿ / 43.64694; 
