George M. Steinbrenner Field (formerly known as Legends Field[7]), is a 
baseball stadium located in Tampa, Florida across Dale Mabry Highway from 
Raymond James Stadium, home of the National Football League's Tampa Bay 
Buccaneers. The ballpark was built in 1996 and holds 11,026 people with 
an addition in right field built in 2007.[8] This ballpark is the largest 
spring training ballpark in Florida. George M. Steinbrenner Field serves 
as the home of the Tampa Yankees, the New York Yankees' affiliate in the 
Class A Advanced Florida State League, and is the Yankees' spring training 
home.[9] Tampa was the first spring training site in Florida, beginning 
in 1913 with the Chicago Cubs.[10] In the ensuing decades, the city hosted 
several different Major League Baseball teams for spring training and was 
home to several different minor league squads during the summer, first 
at Plant Field near downtown and later at Al Lopez Field near West Tampa. 
This era came to an end in 1988 when, after almost 30 years in Tampa, the 
Cincinnati Reds moved to new training facilities in Plant City, Florida 
and transferred operation of the Tampa Tarpons, their local minor league 
affiliate in the Florida State League, to the Chicago White Sox. In 1989, 
the Tarpons moved to Sarasota, Florida and Al Lopez Field was razed, leaving 
the city with no professional baseball teams and no large baseball venue. 
In 1993, the Tampa Sports Authority announced a deal to build a new spring 
training stadium for the New York Yankees, who had been conducting spring 
training in Fort Lauderdale.[11] The original plan was to build the facility 
on the former site of Al Lopez Field, just south of old Tampa Stadium. 
However, due to objections from the Buccaneers, the new ballpark was instead 
built about a half-mile to the northwest, directly across Dale Mabry Highway 
from Tampa Stadium, displacing a Hillsborough County correctional facility.[12] 
The ballpark and the surrounding training complex cost approximately $30 
million to build and was financed entirely with public funds, mostly from 
Hillsborough County.[13][14][15] It hosted its first spring training game 
on March 1, 1996 when the Yankees opened spring training by hosting the 
Cleveland Indians.[11] In 2006, Hillsborough County paid for a $7.5 million 
expansion to add more seats and amenities behind right field.[16] The addition 
opened in 2008. The ballpark was known as Legends Field for the first dozen 
years of its existence. It was renamed in honor of George Steinbrenner, 
the Yankees' owner and Tampa resident, on March 27, 2008, when Steinbrenner 
was in failing health.[9][17] He died in July 2010, and a life-size bronze 
statue of the late owner was placed in front of the stadium in January 
2011.[18] On April 20, 2016, Hillsborough County commissioners approved 
a $40 million renovation of George M. Steinbrenner Field, greenlighting 
an agreement that will keep New York Yankees' spring training in Tampa 
through 2046. Improvements include new seats throughout the 10,000-capacity 
ballpark, roof replacements, a better entry plaza and an upgraded outfield 
concourse. The renovations also include adding new amenities such as new 
loge boxes, cabanas, suite upgrades, a right-field beachside bar and bullpen 
clubs. The bullpen clubs will be installed on both the first base and the 
third base side. The clubs will compose of two levels; the top tier will 
be exclusively for group tickets, club seat members and lodge seating, 
while the bottom tier will feature a full bar that all ticket members can 
access. Additional shaded areas will be constructed to protect fans from 
the sun. The team's spring training practice facility on Himes Avenue will 
also be upgraded. The renovations will be completed by March 2017.[19][20] 
The dimensions of the field precisely mimic that of the old Yankee Stadium, 
and the scalloped grandstand facade (the frieze) is also meant to invoke 
the old ballpark in the Bronx. When built, it was the first spring training 
stadium to include luxury suites.[21] Outside of the stadium are plaques 
commemorating Yankees whose numbers have been retired. In 2008, Barack 
Obama held a campaign rally at the ballpark with members of the Tampa Bay 
Rays, including David Price, who introduced him to the crowd.[22] In 2010, 
the ballpark was the home pitch for FC Tampa Bay of the USSF Division 2 
Professional League. The club moved across Tampa Bay to Al Lang Field in 
St. Petersburg for the 2011 season. On August 9, 2014, the venue hosted 
the "Carnivores Tour" featuring Linkin Park and Thirty Seconds to Mars 
