George Grande (pronounced like the English word "grand") is an American 
sportscaster who is currently a part-time broadcaster for the Cincinnati 
Reds of Major League Baseball. Grande is also famous for having hosted 
the first broadcast of SportsCenter on ESPN in 1979.[1] He graduated from 
the University of Southern California in 1969, where he played baseball 
for four years and was a member of the Trojans' team that won the 1968 
College World Series. While at USC, he played with 14 future Major Leaguers, 
including Hall of Famer Tom Seaver and slugger Dave Kingman.[2] He began 
his broadcasting career as a USC student in 1967 as the sports director 
and news director of the university's radio station, KUSC-FM, followed 
by radio stints at: KNX in Los Angeles; WERI in Westerly, Rhode Island 
where he learned his craft from News Director Steve J. Caminis; and WNHC 
in New Haven, Connecticut. He completed his radio broadcast career by handling 
the Boston Red Sox pre-game and post-game shows on WMEX. Prior to joining 
ESPN, Grande served as a sportscaster on TV station WTNH in New Haven.[2] 
Grande and Lee Leonard were the first two people to be seen on ESPN upon 
its launch. After Leonard gave an introduction to viewers concerning what 
the network was all about, he tossed to Grande who was sitting at a desk 
dubbed the "ESPN Sports Center", which became the name of the fledging 
network's nightly news broadcast.[3] In the early years of the network, 
he served as host of the Inside Baseball weekly magazine program that evolved 
into the current Baseball Tonight program on ESPN. Grande was a TV play-by-play 
announcer for Major League Baseball's New York Yankees in 1989 and 1990, 
for the St. Louis Cardinals in 1991 and 1992. He joined the Cincinnati 
Reds TV broadcast team and was its lead broadcaster from 1993 to 2009 for 
SportsChannel Cincinnati and Fox Sports Ohio.[4] He teamed with former 
player Chris Welsh to form the longest-running TV broadcasting partnership 
in team history. On October 4, 2009, Grande announced that he would step 
down after 17 seasons with the Reds, stating that he wanted to spend more 
time with his family.[5] However, he has since returned for a small number 
of games each season through 2015.[2] Grande also served as master of ceremonies 
for the National Baseball Hall of Fame's annual inductions for 31 years, 
from 1980 to 2010.[2] Grande is on the board of directors for USA Baseball.[6] 
