The German American ethnic group (German: Deutschamerikaner) consists of 
Americans who have full or partial German ancestry. With an estimated size 
of approximately 46 million in 2014, German Americans are the largest of 
the ancestry groups reported by the US Census Bureau in its American Community 
Survey.[1] The group accounts for about 1⁄3 of the total ethnic German 
population in the world.[6][7][8] None of the German states had American 
colonies. In the 1670s the first significant groups of German immigrants 
arrived in the British colonies, settling primarily in New York and Pennsylvania. 
Immigration continued in very large numbers during the 19th century, with 
eight million arrivals from Germany. In the middle half of the nineteenth 
century (between 1820 and 1870) over seven and a half million immigrants 
came to the United States — more than doubling the entire population of 
the country. By 2010, their population grew to 49.8 million citizens, reflecting 
a jump of 6 million people since 2000. There is a "German belt" that extends 
all the way across the United States, from eastern Pennsylvania to the 
Oregon coast. Pennsylvania has the largest population of German-Americans 
in the U.S. and is home to one of the group's original settlements, Germantown 
(Philadelphia), founded in 1683 and the birthplace of the American antislavery 
movement in 1688, as well as the revolutionary Battle of Germantown. The 
state of Pennsylvania has 3.5 million people of German ancestry. They were 
pulled by the attractions of land and religious freedom, and pushed out 
of Europe by shortages of land and religious or political oppression.[9] 
Many arrived seeking religious or political freedom, others for economic 
opportunities greater than those in Europe, and others for the chance to 
start fresh in the New World. The arrivals before 1850 were mostly farmers 
who sought out the most productive land, where their intensive farming 
techniques would pay off. After 1840, many came to cities, where "Germania"—German-speaking 
districts—soon emerged.[10][11][12] German Americans established the first 
kindergartens in the United States,[13] introduced the Christmas tree tradition,[14][15] 
and originated popular American foods such as hot dogs and hamburgers.[16] 
The great majority of people with some German ancestry have become Americanized 
and hardly can be distinguished; fewer than 5% speak German. German-American 
societies abound, as do celebrations that are held throughout the country 
to celebrate German heritage, one of the most well-known being the German-American 
Steuben Parade in New York City, held every third Saturday in September. 
Traditional Oktoberfest celebrations and the German-American Day are popular 
festivities. There are major annual events in cities with German heritage 
including Chicago, Cincinnati, Milwaukee, Pittsburgh, and St. Louis. The 
Germans included many quite distinct subgroups with differing religious 
and cultural values.[17] Lutherans and Catholics typically opposed Yankee 
moralizing programs such as the prohibition of beer, and favored paternalistic 
families with the husband deciding the family position on public affairs.[18][19] 
They generally opposed women's suffrage but this was used as argument in 
favor of suffrage when German American became pariahs during World War 
I.[20] On the other hand, there were Protestant groups that emerged from 
European pietism such as the German Methodist and United Brethren; they 
more closely resembled the Yankee Methodists in their moralism.[21] The 
first English settlers arrived at Jamestown, Virginia in 1607, and were 
accompanied by the first German American, Dr. Johannes Fleischer. He was 
followed in 1608 by five glassmakers and three carpenters or house builders.[22] 
The first permanent German settlement in what became the United States 
was Germantown, Pennsylvania, founded near Philadelphia on October 6, 1683.[23] 
Large numbers of Germans migrated from the 1680s to 1760s, with Pennsylvania 
the favored destination. They migrated to America for a variety of reasons.[23] 
Push factors involved worsening opportunities for farm ownership in central 
Europe, persecution of some religious groups, and military conscription; 
pull factors were better economic conditions, especially the opportunity 
to own land, and religious freedom. Often immigrants paid for their passage 
by selling their labor for a period of years as indentured servants.[24] 
Large sections of Pennsylvania and upstate New York attracted Germans. 
Most were Lutheran or German Reformed; many belonged to small religious 
sects such as the Moravians and Mennonites. German Catholics did not arrive 
in number until after the War of 1812.[25] In 1709, Protestant Germans 
from the Pfalz or Palatine region of Germany escaped conditions of hardship, 
traveling first to Rotterdam and then to London. Anne, Queen of Great Britain, 
helped them get to her colonies in America. The trip was long and difficult 
to survive because of the poor quality of food and water aboard ships and 
the infectious disease typhus. Many immigrants, particularly children, 
died before reaching America in June 1710.[26] The Palatine immigration 
of about 2100 people who survived was the largest single immigration to 
America in the colonial period. Most were first settled along the Hudson 
River in work camps, to pay off their passage. By 1711, seven villages 
had been established in New York on the Robert Livingston manor. In 1723 
Germans became the first Europeans allowed to buy land in the Mohawk Valley 
west of Little Falls. One hundred homesteads were allocated in the Burnetsfield 
Patent. By 1750, the Germans occupied a strip some 12 miles (19 km) long 
along both sides of the Mohawk River. The soil was excellent; some 500 
houses were built, mostly of stone, and the region prospered in spite of 
Indian raids. Herkimer was the best-known of the German settlements in 
a region long known as the "German Flats".[26] They kept to themselves, 
married their own, spoke German, attended Lutheran churches, and retained 
their own customs and foods. They emphasized farm ownership. Some mastered 
English to become conversant with local legal and business opportunities. 
They tolerated slavery (although few were rich enough to own a slave).[27] 
The most famous of the early German Palatine immigrants was editor John 
Peter Zenger, who led the fight in colonial New York City for freedom of 
the press in America. A later immigrant, John Jacob Astor, who came from 
Baden after the Revolutionary War, became the richest man in America from 
his fur trading empire and real estate investments in New York.[28] John 
Law organized the first colonization of Louisiana with German immigrants. 
Of the over 5,000 Germans initially immigrating primarily from the Alsace 
Region as few as 500 made up the first wave of immigrants to leave France 
en route to the Americas. Less than 150 of those first indentured German 
farmers made it to Louisiana and settled along what became known as the 
German Coast. With tenacity, determination and the leadership of D'arensburg 
these Germans felled trees, cleared land, and cultivated the soil with 
simple hand tools as draft animals were not available. The German coast 
settlers supplied the budding City of New Orleans with corn, rice, eggs 
and meat for many years following. The Mississippi Company settled thousands 
of German pioneers in French Louisiana during 1721. It encouraged Germans, 
particularly Germans of the Alsatian region who had recently fallen under 
French rule, and the Swiss to immigrate. Alsace was sold to France within 
the greater context of the Thirty Years' War (1618–1648). The Jesuit Charlevoix 
traveled New France (Canada and Louisiana) in the early 1700s. His letter 
said "these 9,000 Germans, who were raised in the Palatinate (Alsace part 
of France) were in Arkansas. The Germans left Arkansas en masse. They went 
to New Orleans and demanded passage to Europe. The Mississippi Company 
gave the Germans rich lands on the right bank of the Mississippi River 
about 25 miles (40 km) above New Orleans. The area is now known as 'the 
German Coast'." A thriving population of Germans lived upriver from New 
Orleans, Louisiana, known as the German Coast. They were attracted to the 
area through pamphlets such as J. Hanno Deiler's "Louisiana: A Home for 
German Settlers".[29] Two waves of German colonists in 1714 and 1717 founded 
a large colony in Virginia called Germanna,[30] located near modern-day 
Culpeper, Virginia. Virginia Lieutenant Governor Alexander Spotswood, taking 
advantage of the headright system, had bought land in present-day Spotsylvania 
and encouraged German immigration by advertising in Germany for miners 
to move to Virginia and establish a mining industry in the colony. The 
name "Germanna", selected by Governor Alexander Spotswood, reflected both 
the German immigrants who sailed across the Atlantic to Virginia and the 
British Queen, Anne, who was in power at the time of the first settlement 
at Germanna. In North Carolina, German Moravians living around Bethlehem, 
Pennsylvania purchased nearly 100,000 acres (400 km2) from Lord Granville 
(one of the British Lords Proprietor) in the Piedmont of North Carolina 
in 1753. They established German settlements on that tract, especially 
in the area around what is now Winston-Salem.[31] They also founded the 
transitional settlement of Bethabara, North Carolina, translated as House 
of Passage, the first planned Moravian community in North Carolina, in 
1759. Soon after, the German Moravians founded the town of Salem in 1766 
(now a historical section in the center of Winston-Salem) and Salem College 
(an early female college) in 1772. In the Georgia Colony, Germans mainly 
from the Swabia region settled in Savannah, St. Simon's Island and Fort 
Frederica in the 1730s and 1740s. They were actively recruited by James 
Oglethorpe and quickly distinguished themselves through improved farming, 
advanced tabby (cement)-construction, and leading joint Lutheran-Anglican-Reformed 
religious services for the colonists. German immigrants also settled in 
other areas of the American South, including around the Dutch (Deutsch) 
Fork area of South Carolina,[25] and Texas, especially in the Austin area. 
Between 1742 and 1753, roughly 1,000 Germans settled in Broad Bay, Massachusetts 
(now Waldoboro, Maine). Many of the colonists fled to Boston, Nova Scotia, 
and North Carolina after their houses were burned and their neighbors killed 
or carried into captivity by Native Americans. The Germans who remained 
found it difficult to survive on farming, and eventually turned to the 
shipping and fishing industries.[32] The tide of German immigration to 
Pennsylvania swelled between 1725 and 1775, with immigrants arriving as 
redemptioners or indentured servants. By 1775, Germans constituted about 
one-third of the population of the state. German farmers were renowned 
for their highly productive animal husbandry and agricultural practices. 
Politically, they were generally inactive until 1740, when they joined 
a Quaker-led coalition that took control of the legislature, which later 
supported the American Revolution. Despite this, many of the German settlers 
were loyalists during the Revolution, possibly because they feared their 
royal land grants would be taken away by a new republican government, or 
because of loyalty to a British German monarchy who had provided the opportunity 
to live in a liberal society.[33] The Germans, comprising Lutherans, Reformed, 
Mennonites, Amish, and other sects, developed a rich religious life with 
a strong musical culture. Collectively, they came to be known as the Pennsylvania 
Dutch (from Deutsch).[34][35] Etymologically, the word Dutch originates 
from the Old High German word "diutisc" (from "diot" "people"), referring 
to the Germanic "language of the people" as opposed to Latin, the language 
of the learned (see also theodiscus). Only later did the word come to refer 
to the people who spoke the language. Other Germanic language variants 
for "deutsch/deitsch/dutch" are: Dutch "Duits" and "Diets", Yiddish "daytsh", 
Danish "tysk", Norwegian "tysk", or Swedish "tyska". There were few German 
Catholics in Pennsylvania before the 1810s.[36] The Studebaker brothers, 
forefathers of the wagon and automobile makers, arrived in Pennsylvania 
in 1736 from the famous blade town of Solingen. With their skills, they 
made wagons that carried the frontiersmen westward; their cannons provided 
the Union Army with artillery in the American Civil War, and their automobile 
company became one of the largest in America, although never eclipsing 
the "Big Three", and was a factor in the war effort and in the industrial 
foundations of the Army.[37] When the American Revolutionary War broke 
out, Britain made arrangements with German princes to hire some 30,000 
"Hessian" soldiers to fight against the American army. The largest group 
came from the country of Hesse, and the soldiers are often referred to 
as Hessians. Many became prisoners on American farms, some of whom permanently 
settled in America.[38] From names in the 1790 U.S. census, historians 
estimate Germans constituted nearly 9% of the white population in the United 
States.[39] The largest flow of German immigration to America occurred 
between 1820 and World War I, during which time nearly six million Germans 
immigrated to the United States. From 1840 to 1880, they were the largest 
group of immigrants. Following the Revolutions of 1848 in the German states, 
a wave of political refugees fled to America, who became known as Forty-Eighters. 
They included professionals, journalists, and politicians. Prominent Forty-Eighters 
included Carl Schurz and Henry Villard.[40] "Latin farmer" or Latin Settlement 
is the designation of several settlements founded by some of the Dreissiger 
and other refugees from Europe after rebellions like the Frankfurter Wachensturm 
beginning in the 1830s—predominantly in Texas and Missouri, but also in 
other US states—in which German intellectuals (freethinkers, German: Freidenker, 
and Latinists) met together to devote themselves to the German literature, 
philosophy, science, classical music, and the Latin language. A prominent 
representative of this generation of immigrants was Gustav Koerner who 
lived most of the time until his death in Belleville, Illinois. A few German 
Jews came in the colonial era. The largest numbers arrived after 1820, 
especially in the mid-19th century.[41] They spread across the North and 
South (and California, where Levi Strauss arrived in 1853. They formed 
small German-Jewish communities in cities and towns. They typically were 
local and regional merchants selling clothing; others were livestock dealers, 
agricultural commodity traders, bankers, and operators of local businesses. 
Henry Lehman, who founded Lehman Brothers in Alabama, was a particularly 
prominent example of such a German-Jewish immigrant. They formed Reformed 
synagogues[42] and sponsored numerous local and national philanthropic 
organizations, such as B'nai B'rith.[43] This German-speaking group is 
quite distinct from the Yiddish speaking East-European Jews who arrived 
in much larger numbers staring in the late 19th century and concentrated 
in New York. The port cities of New York, and Baltimore had large populations. 
As did Hoboken, New Jersey. The Midwestern cities of Milwaukee, Cincinnati, 
St. Louis, Chicago were favored destinations of German immigrants. Also, 
the Northern Kentucky area along the Ohio River was a favored destination. 
By 1900, the populations of the cities of Cleveland, Milwaukee, and Cincinnati 
were all more than 40% German American. Dubuque and Davenport, Iowa had 
even larger proportions, as did Omaha, Nebraska, where the proportion of 
German Americans was 57% in 1910. In many other cities of the Midwest, 
such as Fort Wayne, Indiana, German Americans were at least 30% of the 
population.[32][44] By 1850 there were 5,000 Germans, mostly Schwabians 
living in, and around, and Ann Arbor, Michigan.[45] Many concentrations 
acquired distinctive names suggesting their heritage, such as the "Over-the-Rhine" 
district in Cincinnati and "German Village" in Columbus, Ohio.[46] A favorite 
destination was Milwaukee, known as "the German Athens". Radical Germans 
trained in politics in the old country dominated the city's Socialists. 
Skilled workers dominated many crafts, while entrepreneurs created the 
brewing industry; the most famous brands included Pabst, Schlitz, Miller, 
and Blatz.[47] Whereas half of German immigrants settled in cities, the 
other half established farms in the Midwest. From Ohio to the Plains states, 
a heavy presence persists in rural areas into the 21st century.[25][48] 
Few Germans settled in the Deep South, apart from some in New Orleans.[49] 
Texas attracted many Germans who entered through Galveston and Indianola, 
both those who came to farm, and later immigrants who more rapidly took 
industrial jobs in cities such as Houston. As in Milwaukee, Germans in 
Houston built the brewing industry. By the 1920s, the first generation 
of college-educated German Americans were moving into the chemical and 
oil industries.[25] Texas had about 20,000 German Americans in the 1850s. 
They did not form a uniform bloc, but were highly diverse and drew from 
geographic areas and all sectors of European society, except that very 
few aristocrats or upper middle class businessmen arrived. In this regard, 
Texas Germania was a microcosm of the Germania nationwide. The Germans 
who settled Texas were diverse in many ways. They included peasant farmers 
and intellectuals; Protestants, Catholics, Jews, and atheists; Prussians, 
Saxons, and Hessians; abolitionists and slave owners; farmers and townsfolk; 
frugal, honest folk and ax murderers. They differed in dialect, customs, 
and physical features. A majority had been farmers in Germany, and most 
arrived seeking economic opportunities. A few dissident intellectuals fleeing 
the 1848 revolutions sought political freedom, but few, save perhaps the 
Wends, went for religious freedom. The German settlements in Texas reflected 
their diversity. Even in the confined area of the Hill Country, each valley 
offered a different kind of German. The Llano valley had stern, teetotaling 
German Methodists, who renounced dancing and fraternal organizations; the 
Pedernales valley had fun-loving, hardworking Lutherans and Catholics who 
enjoyed drinking and dancing; and the Guadalupe valley had freethinking 
Germans descended from intellectual political refugees. The scattered German 
ethnic islands were also diverse. These small enclaves included Lindsay 
in Cooke County, largely Westphalian Catholic; Waka in Ochiltree County, 
Midwestern Mennonite; Hurnville in Clay County, Russian German Baptist; 
and Lockett in Wilbarger County, Wendish Lutheran.[51] Germans from Russia 
were the most traditional of German-speaking arrivals.[citation needed] 
They were Germans who had lived for generations throughout the Russian 
Empire, but especially along the Volga River in Russia, near the Crimea. 
Their ancestors had come from all over the German-speaking world, invited 
by Catherine the Great in 1762 and 1763 to settle and introduce more advanced 
German agriculture methods to rural Russia. They had been promised by the 
manifesto of their settlement the ability to practice their respective 
Christian denominations, retain their culture and language, and retain 
immunity from conscription for them and their descendants. As time passed, 
the Russian monarchy gradually eroded the ethnic German population's relative 
autonomy. Conscription eventually was reinstated; this was especially harmful 
to the Mennonites, who practice pacifism. Throughout the 19th century, 
pressure increased from the Russian government to culturally assimilate. 
Many Germans from Russia found it necessary to emigrate to avoid conscription 
and preserve their culture. About 100,000 immigrated by 1900, settling 
primarily in the Dakotas, Kansas and Nebraska. The southern central part 
of North Dakota was known as "the German-Russian triangle". A smaller number 
moved farther west, finding employment as ranchers and cowboys. Negatively 
influenced by the violation of their rights and cultural persecution by 
the Tsar, the Germans from Russia who settled in the northern Midwest saw 
themselves a downtrodden ethnic group separate from Russian Americans and 
having an entirely different experience from the German Americans who had 
immigrated from German lands; they settled in tight-knit communities that 
retained their German language and culture. They raised large families, 
built German-style churches, buried their dead in distinctive cemeteries 
using cast iron grave markers, and created choir groups that sang German 
church hymns. Many farmers specialized in sugar beets—still a major crop 
in the upper Great Plains. During World War I, their identity was challenged 
by anti-German sentiment. By the end of World War II, the German language, 
which had always been used with English for public and official matters, 
was in serious decline. Today, German is preserved mainly through singing 
groups and recipes, with the Germans from Russia in the northern Great 
Plains states speaking predominantly English. German remains the second 
most spoken language in North and South Dakota, and Germans from Russia 
often use loanwords, such as Kuchen for cake. Despite the loss of their 
language, the ethnic group remains distinct, and has left a lasting impression 
on the American West.[52] Sentiment among German Americans was largely 
anti-slavery, especially among Forty-Eighters.[40] Notable Forty-Eighter 
Hermann Raster wrote passionately against slavery and was very pro-Lincoln. 
Raster published anti-slavery pamphlets and was the editor of the most 
influential German language newspaper in America at the time.[53] He helped 
secure the votes of German-Americans across the United States for Abraham 
Lincoln. When Raster died the Chicago Tribune published an article regarding 
his service as a correspondent for America to the German states saying, 
"His writings during and after the Civil War did more to create understanding 
and appreciation of the American situation in Germany and to float U.S. 
bonds in Europe than the combined efforts of all the U.S. ministers and 
consuls."[54] Hundreds of thousands of German Americans volunteered to 
fight for the Union in the American Civil War (1861–1865).[55] The Germans 
were the largest immigrant group to participate in the Civil War; over 
176,000 U.S. soldiers were born in Germany.[56] A popular Union commander 
among Germans, Major General Franz Sigel was the highest-ranking German 
officer in the Union Army, with many German immigrants claiming to enlist 
to "fight mit Sigel".[57] Although only one in four Germans fought in all-German 
regiments, they created the public image of the German soldier. Pennsylvania 
fielded five German regiments, New York eleven, and Ohio six.[55] Western 
railroads, with large land grants available to attract farmers, set up 
agencies in Hamburg and other German cities, promising cheap transportation, 
and sales of farmland on easy terms. For example, the Santa Fe railroad 
hired its own commissioner for immigration, and sold over 300,000 acres 
(1,200 km2) to German-speaking farmers.[58] Throughout the 19th and 20th 
centuries, the German Americans showed a high interest in becoming farmers, 
and keeping their children and grandchildren on the land. While they needed 
profits to stay in operation, they used profits as a tool "to maintain 
continuity of the family."[59] They used risk averse strategies, and carefully 
planned their inheritances to keep the land in the family. Their communities 
showed smaller average farm size, greater equality, less absentee ownership 
and greater geographic persistence. As one farmer explained, "To protect 
your family has turned out to be the same thing as protecting your land."[60] 
Germany was a large country with many diverse subregions which contributed 
immigrants. Dubuque was the base of the Ostfriesische Nachrichten ("East 
Fresian News") from 1881 to 1971. It connected the 20,000 immigrants from 
East Friesland (Ostfriesland), Germany, to each other across the Midwest, 
and to their old homeland. In Germany East Friesland was often a topic 
of ridicule regarding backward rustics, but editor Leupke Hündling shrewdly 
combined stories of proud memories of Ostfriesland. The editor enlisted 
a network of local correspondents. By mixing local American and local German 
news, letters, poetry, fiction, and dialogue, the German-language newspaper 
allowed immigrants to honor their origins and celebrate their new life 
as highly prosperous farmers with much larger farms than were possible 
back in impoverished Ostfriesland. During the world wars, when Germania 
came under heavy attack, the paper stressed its humanitarian role, mobilizing 
readers to help the people of East Friesland with relief funds. Younger 
generations could usually speak German but not read it, so the subscription 
based dwindled away as the target audience Americanized itself.[61] Relatively 
few German Americans held office, but the men voted once they became citizens. 
In general during the Third party System (1850s–1890s), the Protestants 
and Jews leaned toward the Republican party and the Catholics were strongly 
Democratic. When prohibition was on the ballot, the Germans voted solidly 
against it. They strongly distrusted moralistic crusaders, whom they called 
"Puritans", including the temperance reformers and many Populists. The 
German community strongly opposed Free Silver, and voted heavily against 
crusader William Jennings Bryan in 1896. In 1900, however, many German 
Democrats returned to their party and voted for Bryan, perhaps because 
of President William McKinley's foreign policy.[62] At the local level, 
historians have explored the changing voting behavior of the German-American 
community and one of its major strongholds, St. Louis, Missouri. The German 
Americans had voted 80 percent for Lincoln in 1860, and strongly supported 
the war effort. They were a bastion of the Republican Party in St. Louis 
and nearby immigrant strongholds in Missouri and southern Illinois. The 
German Americans were angered by a proposed Missouri state constitution 
that discriminating against Catholics and freethinkers. The requirement 
of a special loyalty oath for priests and ministers was troublesome. Despite 
their strong opposition the constitution was ratified in 1865. Racial tensions 
with the blacks began to emerge, especially in terms of competition for 
unskilled labor jobs. Germania was nervous about black suffrage in 1868, 
fearing that blacks would support puritanical laws Especially regarding 
the prohibition of beer gardens on Sundays. The tensions split off a large 
German element in 1872, led by Carl Schurz. They supported the Liberal 
Republican party led by Benjamin Gratz Brown for governor in 1870 and Horace 
Greeley for president in 1872.[63] Many Germans in late 19th century cities 
were socialists; Germans played a significant role in the labor union movement.[64][65] 
A few were anarchists.[66] Six of the eight anarchist defendants in the 
Haymarket Affair of 1886 in Chicago were German. Hugo Münsterberg (1863–1916), 
a German psychologist, moved to Harvard in the 1890s and became a leader 
in the new profession. He was president of the American Psychological Association 
in 1898, and the American Philosophical Association in 1908, and played 
a major role in many other American and international organizations.[67] 
Arthur Preuss (1871–1934) was a leading journalist, and theologian. A layman 
in St Louis. His Fortnightly Review (in English) was a major conservative 
voice read closely by church leaders and intellectuals from 1894 until 
1934. He was intensely loyal to the Vatican. Preuss upheld the German Catholic 
community, denounced the "Americanism" heresy, promoted the Catholic University 
of America, and anguished over the anti-German America hysteria during 
World War I. He provided lengthy commentary regarding the National Catholic 
Welfare Conference, the anti-Catholic factor in the presidential campaign 
of 1928, the hardships of the Great Depression, and the liberalism of the 
New Deal.[68][69] During World War I (1917–18), German Americans were often 
accused of being too sympathetic to Imperial Germany. Former president 
Theodore Roosevelt denounced "hyphenated Americanism", insisting that dual 
loyalties were impossible in wartime. A small minority came out for Germany, 
or ridiculed the British (as did H. L. Mencken). Similarly, Harvard psychology 
professor Hugo Münsterberg before his death in 1916 had become an informal 
spokesman for Germany, and was attacked by his colleagues. The Justice 
Department prepared a list of all German aliens, counting approximately 
480,000 of them, more than 4,000 of whom were imprisoned in 1917–18. The 
allegations included spying for Germany, or endorsing the German war effort.[70] 
Thousands were forced to buy war bonds to show their loyalty.[71] The Red 
Cross barred individuals with German last names from joining in fear of 
sabotage. One person was killed by a mob; in Collinsville, Illinois, German-born 
Robert Prager was dragged from jail as a suspected spy and lynched.[72] 
A Minnesota minister was tarred and feathered when he was overheard praying 
in German with a dying woman.[73] In Chicago, Frederick Stock temporarily 
stepped down as conductor of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra until he finalized 
his naturalization papers. Orchestras replaced music by German composer 
Wagner with French composer Berlioz. In Cincinnati, the public library 
was asked to withdraw all German books from its shelves.[74] German-named 
streets were renamed. The town, Berlin, Michigan, was changed to Marne, 
Michigan (honoring those who fought in the Battle of Marne). In Iowa, in 
the 1918 Babel Proclamation, the governor prohibited all foreign languages 
in schools and public places. Nebraska banned instruction in any language 
except English, but the U.S. Supreme Court ruled the ban illegal in 1923 
(Meyer v. Nebraska).[75] The response of German Americans to these tactics 
was often to "Americanize" names (e.g., Schmidt to Smith, Müller to Miller) 
and limit the use of the German language in public places, especially churches.[76] 
Between 1931 and 1940, 114,000 Germans moved to the United States, many 
of whom—including Nobel prize winner Albert Einstein and author Erich Maria 
Remarque—were Jewish Germans or anti-Nazis fleeing government oppression.[77] 
About 25,000 people became paying members of the pro-Nazi German American 
Bund during the years before the war.[78] German aliens were the subject 
of suspicion and discrimination during the war, although prejudice and 
sheer numbers meant they suffered as a group generally less than Japanese 
Americans. The Alien Registration Act of 1940 required 300,000 German-born 
resident aliens who had German citizenship to register with the Federal 
government and restricted their travel and property ownership rights.[79][80] 
Under the still active Alien Enemy Act of 1798, the United States government 
interned nearly 11,000 German citizens between 1940 and 1948. Civil rights 
violations occurred.[81] An unknown number of "voluntary internees" joined 
their spouses and parents in the camps and were not permitted to leave.[82][83][84] 
President Franklin D. Roosevelt sought out Americans of German ancestry 
for top war jobs, including General Dwight D. Eisenhower, Admiral Chester 
W. Nimitz, and USAAF General Carl Andrew Spaatz. He appointed Republican 
Wendell Willkie as a personal representative. German Americans who had 
fluent German language skills were an important asset to wartime intelligence, 
and they served as translators and as spies for the United States.[85] 
The war evoked strong pro-American patriotic sentiments among German Americans, 
few of whom by then had contacts with distant relatives in the old country.[25][86] 
In the aftermath of World War II, millions of ethnic Germans were forcibly 
expelled from their homes within the redrawn borders of Central and Eastern 
Europe, including the Soviet Union, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Romania, Hungary 
and Yugoslavia. Most resettled in Germany, but others came as refugees 
to the United States in the late 1940s, and established cultural centers 
in their new homes. Some Danube Swabians, for instance, ethnic Germans 
who had maintained language and customs after settlement along the Danube 
in Hungary, later Yugoslavia (now Serbia), immigrated to the U.S. after 
the war. After 1970, anti-German sentiment aroused by World War II faded 
away.[91] Today, German Americans who immigrated after World War II share 
the same characteristics as any other Western European immigrant group 
in the U.S. They are mostly professionals and academics who have come for 
professional reasons. Since the collapse of the Soviet Union and reunification, 
Germany has become a preferred destination for immigrants rather than a 
source of migrating peoples.[92] In the 1990 U.S. Census, 58 million Americans 
claimed to be solely or partially of German descent.[93] According to the 
2005 American Community Survey, 50 million Americans have German ancestry. 
German Americans represent 17% of the total U.S. population and 26% of 
the non-Hispanic white population.[94] The Economist magazine in 2015 interviewed 
Petra Schürmann, the director of the German-American Heritage Museum in 
Washington for a major article on German-Americans. She notes that all 
over the United States celebrations such as German fests and Oktoberfests 
have been appearing. States with the highest proportions of German Americans 
tend to be those of the upper Mid-west, including Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska, 
Wisconsin, and the Dakotas; all at over one-third.[95] Of the four major 
US regions, German was the most-reported ancestry in the Midwest, second 
in the West, and third in both the Northeast and the South. German was 
the top reported ancestry in 23 states, and it was one of the top five 
reported ancestries in every state except Maine and Rhode Island.[96] At 
the 2000 census, this was the breakdown of German Americans by state, including 
the District of Columbia: [97][not in citation given] Today, most German 
Americans have assimilated to the point that they no longer have readily 
identifiable ethnic communities, though there are still many metropolitan 
areas where German is the most reported ethnicity, such as Cincinnati, 
Northern Kentucky, Cleveland, Columbus, Indianapolis, Milwaukee, Minneapolis 
– Saint Paul, Pittsburgh, and St. Louis.[98][99] The 25 U.S. communities 
with the highest percentage of residents claiming German ancestry are:[100] 
U.S. communities with the highest percentage of residents claiming German 
ancestry are:[101] The 25 U.S. communities with the most residents born 
in Germany are:[102] The Germans worked hard to maintain and cultivate 
their language, especially through newspapers and classes in elementary 
and high schools. German Americans in many cities, such as Milwaukee, brought 
their strong support of education, establishing German-language schools 
and teacher training seminaries (Töchter-Institut) to prepare students 
and teachers in German language training. By the late 19th century, the 
Germania Publishing Company was established in Milwaukee, a publisher of 
books, magazines, and newspapers in German.[103] "Germania" was the common 
term for German American neighborhoods and their organizations.[104] Deutschtum 
was the term for transplanted German nationalism, both culturally and politically. 
Between 1875 and 1915, the German American population in the United States 
doubled, and many of its members insisted on maintaining their culture. 
German was used in local schools and churches, while numerous Vereine, 
associations dedicated to literature, humor, gymnastics, and singing, sprang 
up in German American communities. German Americans tended to support the 
German government's actions, and, even after the United States entered 
World War I, they often voted for antidraft and antiwar candidates. 'Deutschtum' 
in the United States disintegrated after 1918.[105] Beginning in 1741, 
the German-speaking Moravian Church Settlements of Bethlehem, Nazareth 
and Lititz, Pennsylvania, and Wachovia in North Carolina had highly developed 
musical cultures. Choral music, Brass and String Music and Congregational 
singing were highly cultivated. The Moravian Church produced many composers 
and musicians. Haydn's Creation had its American debut in Bethlehem in 
the early 19th century. The spiritual beliefs of Johann Conrad Beissel 
(1690–1768) and the Ephrata Cloister—such as the asceticism and mysticism 
of this Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, group - are reflected in Beissel's 
treatises on music and hymns, which have been considered the beginning 
of America's musical heritage.[106] In most major cities, Germans took 
the lead in creating a musical culture, with popular bands, singing societies, 
operas and symphonic orchestras.[107] A small city, Wheeling, West Virginia 
could boast of 11 singing societies—Maennerchor, Harmonie, Liedertafel, 
Beethoven, Concordia, Liederkranz, Germania, Teutonia, Harmonie-Maennerchor, 
Arion, and Mozart. The first began in 1855; the last folded in 1961. An 
important aspect of Wheeling social life, these societies reflected various 
social classes and enjoyed great popularity until anti-German sentiments 
during World War I and changing social values dealt them a death blow.[108] 
The Liederkranz, a German-American music society, played an important role 
in the integration of the German community into the life of Louisville, 
Kentucky. Started in 1848, the organization was strengthened by the arrival 
of German liberals after the failure of the revolution of that year. By 
the mid-1850s the Germans formed one-third of Louisville's population and 
faced nativist hostility organized in the Know-Nothing movement. Violent 
demonstrations forced the chorus to suppress publicity of its performances 
that included works by composer Richard Wagner. The Liederkranz suspended 
operations during the Civil War, but afterward grew rapidly, and was able 
to build a large auditorium by 1873. An audience of 8,000 that attended 
a performance in 1877 demonstrated that the Germans were an accepted part 
of Louisville life.[109] The Imperial government in Berlin promoted German 
culture in the U.S., especially music. During the late 19th and early 20th 
centuries, the preponderance of German music on American symphony stages 
went hand in hand with the Kaiser's agenda for Germany's global expansion. 
After Germany's unification in 1871, German cultural diplomacy aimed increasingly 
to convince Anglo-American elites of the superiority of German culture 
to win political allies in the United States. A steady influx of German-born 
conductors, including Arthur Nikisch and Karl Muck, spurred the reception 
of German music in the United States, while German musicians seized on 
Victorian Americans' growing concern with 'emotion'. The performance of 
pieces such as Beethoven's Ninth Symphony established German serious music 
as the superior language of feeling, filling audiences with awe for the 
superiority not just of German art, but also of Germany in general—precisely 
the respect for German greatness and emotionalism that William II wanted 
to convey.[110] Turner societies in the United States were first organized 
during the mid-19th century so German American immigrants could visit with 
one another and become involved in social and sports activities. The National 
Turnerbund, the head organization of the Turnvereine, started drilling 
members as in militia units in 1854. Nearly half of all Turners fought 
in the Civil War, mostly on the Union side, and a special group served 
as bodyguards for President Lincoln. By the 1890s, Turners numbered nearly 
65,000. At the turn of the 21st century, however, with the ethnic identity 
of European Americans in flux and Americanization a key element of immigrant 
life, there were few Turner groups, athletic events were limited, and non-Germans 
were members. A survey of surviving groups and members reflects these radical 
changes in the role of Turner societies and their marginalization in 21st-century 
American society, as younger German Americans tended not to belong, even 
in strongholds of German heritage in the Midwest.[111] As for any immigrant 
population, the development of a foreign-language press helped immigrants 
more easily learn about their new home, maintain connections to their native 
land, and unite immigrant communities.[112] By the late 19th century, Germania 
published over 800 regular publications. The most prestigious daily newspapers, 
such as the New Yorker Staats-Zeitung, the Anzeiger des Westens in St. 
Louis, and the Illinois Staats-Zeitung in Chicago, promoted middle-class 
values and encouraged German ethnic loyalty among their readership.[113] 
The Germans were proud of their language, supported many German-language 
public and private schools, and conducted their church services in German.[114] 
They published at least two-thirds of all foreign language newspapers in 
the U.S. The papers were owned and operated in the U.S., with no control 
from Germany. As Wittke emphasizes, press. it was "essentially an American 
press published in a foreign tongue." The papers reported on major political 
and diplomatic events involving Germany, with pride but from the viewpoint 
of its American readers.[115][116] For example, during the latter half 
of the 19th century, at least 176 different German-language publications 
began operations in the city of Cincinnati alone. Many of these publications 
folded within a year, while a select few, such as the Cincinnati Freie 
Presse, lasted nearly a century.[117] Other cities experienced similar 
turnover among immigrant publications, especially from opinion press, which 
published little news and focused instead on editorial commentary.[118] 
By the end of the 19th century, there were over 800 German-language publications 
in the United States.[119] German immigration was on the decline, however, 
and with subsequent generations integrating into English-speaking society, 
the German language press began to struggle.[120] The periodicals that 
managed to survive in immigrant communities faced an additional challenge 
with anti-German sentiment during World War I[121] and with the Espionage 
and Sedition Acts, which authorized censorship of foreign language newspapers.[122] 
Prohibition also had a destabilizing impact on the German immigrant communities 
upon which the German-language publications relied.[120] By 1920, there 
were only 278 German language publications remaining in the country.[123] 
After 1945, only a few publications have been started. One example is Hiwwe 
wie Driwwe (Kutztown, PA), the nation's only Pennsylvania German newspaper, 
which was established in 1997. Germans brought organized gymnastics to 
America, and were strong supporters of sports programs. They used sport 
both to promote ethnic identity and pride and to facilitate integration 
into American society. Beginning in the mid-19th century, the Turner movement 
offered exercise and sports programs, while also providing a social haven 
for the thousands of new German immigrants arriving in the United States 
each year. Another highly successful German sports organization was the 
Buffalo Germans basketball team, winners of 762 games (against only 85 
losses) in the early years of the 20th century. These examples, and others, 
reflect the evolving place of sport in the assimilation and socialization 
of much of the German-American population.[124] German immigrants who arrived 
before the 19th century tended to have been members of the Evangelical 
Lutheran Churches in Germany, and created the Lutheran Synods of Pennsylvania, 
North Carolina and New York. The largest Lutheran denominations in the 
U.S. today—the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, the Lutheran Church–Missouri 
Synod, and the Wisconsin Evangelical Lutheran Synod—are all descended from 
churches started by German immigrants among others. Calvinist Germans founded 
the Reformed Church in the United States (especially in New York and Pennsylvania), 
and the Evangelical Synod of North America (strongest in the Midwest), 
which is now part of the United Church of Christ. Many immigrants joined 
different churches from those that existed in Germany. Protestants often 
joined the Methodist church.[25] In the 1740s, Count Nicolas von Zinzendorf 
tried to unite all the German-speaking Christians—(Lutheran, Reformed, 
and Separatists)—into one "Church of God in the Spirit". The Moravian Church 
in America is one of the results of this effort, as are the many "Union" 
churches in rural Pennsylvania. Before 1800, communities of Amish, Mennonites, 
Schwarzenau Brethren and Moravians had formed and are still in existence 
today. The Old Order Amish and a majority of the Old Order Mennonites still 
speak dialects of German, including Pennsylvania German, informally known 
as Pennsylvania Dutch. The Amish, who were originally from southern Germany 
and Switzerland, arrived in Pennsylvania during the early 18th century. 
Amish immigration to the United States reached its peak between the years 
1727 and 1770. Religious freedom was perhaps the most pressing cause for 
Amish immigration to Pennsylvania, which became known as a haven for persecuted 
religious groups.[125] The Hutterites are another example of a group of 
German Americans who continue a lifestyle similar to that of their ancestors. 
Like the Amish, they fled persecution for their religious beliefs, and 
came to the United States between 1874 and 1879. Today, Hutterites mostly 
reside in Montana, the Dakotas, and Minnesota, and the western provinces 
of Canada. Hutterites continue to speak Hutterite German. Most are able 
to understand Standard German in addition to their dialect.[126] The German 
speaking "Russian" Mennonites migrated during the same time as the Hutterites, 
but assimilated relatively quickly in the United Stetes, whereas groups 
of "Russian" Mennonites in Canada resisted assimilation.[127] Immigrants 
from Germany in the mid-to-late-19th century brought many different religions 
with them. The most numerous were Lutheran or Catholic, although the Lutherans 
were themselves split among different groups. The more conservative Lutherans 
comprised the Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod and the Wisconsin Evangelical 
Lutheran Synod. Other Lutherans formed various synods, most of which merged 
with Scandinavian-based synods in 1988, forming the Evangelical Lutheran 
Church in America.[128] Catholic Germans started immigrating in large numbers 
in the mid to latter 19th century, spurred in particular by the Kulturkampf. 
Some 19th-century immigrants, especially the "Forty-Eighters", were secular, 
rejecting formal religion. About 250,000 German Jews had arrived by the 
1870s, and they sponsored reform synagogues in many small cities across 
the country. About 2 million Central and Eastern European Jews arrived 
from the 1880s to 1924, bringing more traditional religious practices.[129] 
After two or three generations, most German Americans adopted mainstream 
American customs — some of which they heavily influenced — and switched 
their language to English. As one scholar concludes, "The overwhelming 
evidence ... indicates that the German-American school was a bilingual 
one much (perhaps a whole generation or more) earlier than 1917, and that 
the majority of the pupils may have been English-dominant bilinguals from 
the early 1880s on."[135] By 1914, the older members attended German-language 
church services, while younger ones attended English services (in Lutheran, 
Evangelical and Catholic churches). In German parochial schools, the children 
spoke English among themselves, though some of their classes were in German. 
In 1917–18, after the US entry into World War I on the side of the British, 
nearly all German language instruction ended, as did most German-language 
church services.[76] About 1.5 million Americans speak German at home, 
according to the 2000 census. From 1860–1917, German was widely spoken 
in German neighborhoods; see German in the United States. There is a false 
myth, called the Muhlenberg legend, that German was almost the official 
language of the U.S. There was never any such proposal. The U.S. has no 
official language, but use of German was strongly discouraged during World 
War I and fell out of daily use in many places.[136] There were fierce 
battles in Wisconsin and Illinois around 1890 regarding proposals to stop 
the use of German as the primary language in public and parochial schools. 
The Bennett Law was a highly controversial state law passed in Wisconsin 
in 1889 that required the use of English to teach major subjects in all 
public and private elementary and high schools. It affected the state's 
many German-language private schools (and some Norwegian schools), and 
was bitterly resented by German American communities. The German Catholics 
and Lutherans each operated large networks of parochial schools in the 
state. Because the language used in the classroom was German, the law meant 
the teachers would have to be replaced with bilingual teachers, and in 
most cases shut down. The Germans formed a coalition between Catholics 
and Lutherans, under the leadership of the Democratic Party, and the language 
issue produced a landslide for the Democrats, as Republicans dropped the 
issue until World War I. By 1917, almost all schools taught in English, 
but courses in German were common in areas with large German populations. 
These courses were permanently dropped.[137] "Assimilation" in this context 
means the steady loss of distinctive characteristics (especially language), 
as the Germans melted into a common American nationality. By 1910 German 
Americans had created their own distinctive, vibrant, prosperous German-language 
communities, called "Germania". According to historian Walter Kamphoefner, 
a "number of big cities introduced German into their public school programs".[138] 
Indianapolis, Cincinnati, Cleveland and other cities "had what we now call 
two-way immersion programs: school taught half in German, half in English".[138] 
This was a tradition which continued "all the way down to World War I."[138] 
According to Kamphoefner, German "was in a similar position as the Spanish 
language is in the 20th and 21st century"; it "was by far the most widespread 
foreign language, and whoever was the largest group was at a definite advantage 
in getting its language into the public sphere."[138] Kamphoefner has come 
across evidence that as late as 1917, a German version of the "The Star-Spangled 
Banner" was still being sung in public schools in Indianapolis.[138] The 
transition to the English language was abrupt, forced by the federal government 
during World War One. After 1917 the German language was seldom heard in 
public; most newspapers and magazines closed; churches and parochial schools 
switched to English. Film critic Roger Ebert wrote how "I could hear the 
pain in my German-American father's voice as he recalled being yanked out 
of Lutheran school during World War I and forbidden by his immigrant parents 
ever to speak German again".[139] Youth increasingly attended high schools, 
where they mingled, in English, and dated (and later married) people of 
other ethnicities. The Catholic high schools were deliberately structured 
to commingle ethnic groups so as to promote intermarriage.[140] German-speaking 
taverns, beer gardens and saloons were all shut down by prohibition; those 
that reopened in 1933 spoke English. By the 1940s Germania had largely 
vanished outside remote areas and the Germans were thoroughly assimilated.[141] 
Historians have tried to explain what became of the German Americans and 
their descendents. Kazal (2004) looks at Germans in Philadelphia, focusing 
on four ethnic subcultures: middle-class Vereinsdeutsche, working-class 
socialists, Lutherans, and Catholics. Each group followed a somewhat distinctive 
path toward assimilation. Lutherans, and the better situated Vereinsdeutsche 
with whom they often overlapped, after World War I abandoned the last major 
German characteristics and redefined themselves as old stock or as "Nordic" 
Americans, stressing their colonial roots in Pennsylvania and distancing 
themselves from more recent immigrants. On the other hand, working-class 
and Catholic Germans, groups that heavily overlapped, lived and worked 
with Irish and other European ethnics; they also gave up German characteristics 
but came to identify themselves as white ethnics, distancing themselves 
above all from African American recent arrivals in nearby neighborhoods. 
Well before World War I, women in particular were becoming more and more 
involved in a mass consumer culture that lured them out of their German-language 
neighborhood shops and into English language downtown department stores. 
The 1920s and 1930s brought English language popular culture via movies 
and radio that drowned out the few surviving German language venues.[142] 
Despite this assimilation, it is worth noting that a distinct German American 
ethnicity survived well into the mid-20th century in some places. Writing 
about the town of Hustisford, Wisconsin, Jennifer Ludden discusses Mel 
Grulke, who was born in 1941, with German his first language at home; "Grulke's 
great-grandparents immigrated to the U.S. in the late 1880s, yet three 
generations later, his farmer parents still spoke German at home, attended 
German language church services and chatted in German with shopkeepers 
when they brought their farm eggs into town to sell".[138] Bethany Lutheran 
Church in Hustisford offered German-language services into the 1970s.[138] 
Homer Rudolf, a man from North Dakota of German Russian descent, stated 
in 2004 that his maternal grandmother, who died in 1980 at the age of 90, 
"did not learn English".[143] As recently as 1990, one quarter of North 
Dakota's households included a German speaker.[144] To this day, relatively 
unassimilated people of German-speaking heritage can be found in the United 
States among different Anabaptist groups - the Old Order Amish and most 
Old Order Mennonites speak Pennsylvania Dutch (or Bernese German or Alsatian 
by a minority of Amish) along with High German to various degrees (though 
they are generally fluent in English).[145] All Hutterites speak Hutterite 
German and many "Russian" Mennonites speak Plautdietsch, a German dialect 
coming originally from the area around Danzig. The three Amish dialects 
as well as Hutterite German are still learned by all children of the group, 
whereas Plautdietsch-speakers tend much more to assimilate. Germans have 
contributed to a vast number of areas in American culture and technology. 
Baron von Steuben, a former Prussian officer, led the reorganization of 
the U.S. Army during the War for Independence and helped make the victory 
against British troops possible. The Steinway & Sons piano manufacturing 
firm was founded by immigrant Henry E. Steinway in 1853. German settlers 
brought the Christmas tree custom and other German Christmas traditions 
to the United States. The Studebakers built large numbers of wagons used 
during the Western migration; Studebaker, like the Duesenberg brothers, 
later became an important early automobile manufacturer. Carl Schurz, a 
refugee from the unsuccessful first German democratic revolution of 1848 
became an influential politician first in the Republican then in the Democratic 
party, and served as U.S. Secretary of the Interior.[146] After World War 
II, Wernher von Braun, and most of the leading engineers from the former 
German V-2 rocket base at Peenemünde, were brought to the U.S. They contributed 
decisively to the development of U.S. military rockets, as well as rockets 
for the NASA space program and the initiation of the Apollo program to 
land on the Moon.[147] The influence of German cuisine is seen in the cuisine 
of the United States throughout the country, especially regarding pastries, 
meats and sausages, and above all, beer. Frankfurters (or "wieners", originating 
from Frankfurt am Main and Vienna, respectively), hamburgers, bratwurst, 
sauerkraut, and strudel are common dishes. German bakers introduced the 
pretzel, which is popular across the United States. Germans introduced 
America to lager, the most-produced beer style in the United States, and 
have been the dominant ethnic group in the beer industry since 1850.[25][148] 
The oldest extant brewery in the United States is D. G. Yuengling & Son 
of Pottsville, Pennsylvania (approximately 80 miles northwest of Philadelphia), 
founded in 1829 by an immigrant from Aldingen in what is today Baden-Württemberg; 
the brewery's flagship product remains a 19th-century German-style amber 
lager.[149] By the late 19th century, Milwaukee, with a large population 
of German origin, was once the home to four of the world's largest breweries 
owned by ethnic Germans (Schlitz, Blatz, Pabst, and Miller) and was the 
number one beer producing city in the world for many years. Almost half 
of all current beer sales in the United States can be attributed to German 
immigrants, Capt. A. Pabst, Eberhard Anheuser, and Adolphus Busch, who 
founded Anheuser-Busch in St. Louis in 1860.[150] Later German immigrants 
figured prominently in the rebirth of craft brews following Prohibition, 
culminating in the microbrew movement that swept the U.S. beginning in 
the late 1980s. German and German-American celebrations, such as Oktoberfest, 
Rhenish Carnival, German-American Day and Von Steuben Day are held regularly 
throughout the country. One of the largest is the German-American Steuben 
Parade in New York City, held every third Saturday in September. There 
are also major annual events in Chicago's Lincoln Square neighborhood, 
a traditional a center of the city's German population, in Cincinnati, 
where its annual Oktoberfest Zinzinnati[151] is the largest Oktoberfest 
outside of Germany[152] and in Milwaukee, which celebrates its German heritage 
with an annual German Fest.[98] Many of the immigrants from Germany and 
other German-speaking countries came to Pennsylvania to what was then "Allegheny 
City" (now part of the North Side of the City of Pittsburgh). So many German 
speakers arrived, the area became known as "Deutschtown" and has been revived 
as such.[153][154] Within Deutschtown and since 1854, The Teutonia Männerchor 
has been promoting and furthering German cultural traditions.[155][156] 
Skat, the most popular card game in Germany, is also played in areas of 
the United States with large German American populations, such as Wisconsin 
and Texas.[98] The following German international schools are in operation 
in the United States, serving German citizens, Americans, and other U.S. 
residents: German Americans have been influential in almost every field 
in American society, including science, architecture, business, sports, 
entertainment, theology, politics, and the military. German American general/flag 
military officers Baron von Steuben, George Armstrong Custer, John Pershing, 
Dwight D. Eisenhower, Chester W. Nimitz, Carl Andrew Spaatz and Norman 
Schwarzkopf commanded the United States Army in the American Revolutionary 
War, American Civil War, Indian Wars, World War I, World War II, and the 
Persian Gulf War, respectively. German Americans were famous American politicians, 
including Carl Schurz, Friedrich Hecker, Frederick Muhlenberg, Henry Morgenthau, 
Sr., Henry Morgenthau, Jr., Dwight D. Eisenhower, Herbert Hoover, Henry 
Kissinger, John Boehner and Donald Trump. Many German Americans have played 
a prominent role in American industry and business, including Henry J. 
Heinz, (H. J. Heinz Company), Frank Seiberling (Goodyear Tire and Rubber 
Company), Walt Disney (Disney), John D. Rockefeller (Standard Oil), William 
Boeing (The Boeing Company) and (United Airlines), Walter Chrysler (Chrysler 
Corporation), Frederick and August Duesenberg (Duesenberg Automobile Corporation), 
Studebaker brothers (Studebaker Automobile Corporation), George Westinghouse 
(Westinghouse Electric Corporation), Levi Strauss (Levi Strauss & Co.), 
Charles Guth (PepsiCo Inc.), Bill Gates (Microsoft Corporation), Elon Musk 
(SolarCity), (SpaceX) and (Tesla Motors), James L. Kraft (Kraft Foods Inc.), 
Henry E. Steinway (Steinway & Sons), Charles Pfizer (Pfizer, Inc.), John 
Jacob Astor (Waldorf Astoria Hotels and Resorts), Conrad Hilton (Hilton 
Hotels & Resorts), Guggenheim family (Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation), 
(Guggenheim Partners), Marcus Goldman and Samuel Sachs (The Goldman Sachs 
Group, Inc.), Lehman Brothers (Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.), Carl Laemmle 
(Universal Studios), Marcus Loew (Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc.), Harry 
Cohn (Columbia Pictures Industries, Inc.), Herman Hollerith (International 
Business Machines Corporation (IBM)), Steve Jobs (Apple Inc.),[157] Michael 
Dell (Dell Inc.), Eric Schmidt (Google Inc.) and (Alphabet Inc.), Peter 
Thiel (PayPal Inc.), Adolph Simon Ochs and Arthur Ochs Sulzberger (The 
New York Times), Charles Bergstresser (The Wall Street Journal), Al Neuharth 
(USA Today), Eugene Meyer (The Washington Post) etc. German Americans were 
pioneers and dominated beer brewing for much of American history, beginning 
with breweries founded in the 19th century by German immigrants August 
Schell (August Schell Brewing Company), Christian Moerlein (Christian Moerlein 
Brewing Co.), Eberhard Anheuser (Anheuser-Busch InBev), Adolphus Busch 
(Anheuser-Busch InBev), Adolph Coors (Molson Coors Brewing Company), Frederick 
Miller (Miller Brewing Company), Frederick Pabst (Pabst Brewing Company), 
Bernhard Stroh (Stroh Brewery Company) and Joseph Schlitz (Joseph Schlitz 
Brewing Company).[150] Some, such as Brooklyn Bridge engineer John A. Roebling 
and architects Walter Gropius and Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, left behind 
visible landmarks. Others, including Albert Einstein, J. Robert Oppenheimer, 
Wernher von Braun, John Peter Zenger, John Steinbeck, Kurt Vonnegut, Joseph 
Weizenbaum set intellectual landmarks while Neil Armstrong was the first 
human to land on the moon. Still others, such as Bruce Willis, George Eyser, 
Babe Ruth, Lou Gehrig, Jack Nicklaus, Doris Mary Ann Kappelhoff (Doris 
Day), Grace Kelly, Clark Gable, Marlene Dietrich, Johnny Weissmuller, Ernst 
Lubitsch, Walter Damrosch, Henry John Deutschendorf (John Denver), John 
Kay, Heidi Klum, Meryl Streep, Kim Basinger, Sandra Bullock, David Hasselhoff, 
Leonardo DiCaprio, Kirsten Dunst, Kevin George Knipfing (Kevin James) and 
Steven Spielberg became prominent athletes, actors, film directors or artists.[158] 
There have been two presidents whose fathers were of German descent: Dwight 
Eisenhower (original family name Eisenhauer and maternal side is also German/Swiss) 
and Herbert Hoover (original family name Huber). President-elect Donald 
J. Trump (original family name Drumpf) is also of paternal German descent. 
Presidents with maternal German ancestry include Richard Milhous Nixon 
(Nixon's maternal ancestors were Germans who anglicized Melhausen to Milhous)[159] 
and Barack Obama, whose maternal family's ancestry includes German immigrants 
from the South German town of Besigheim[160] and from Bischwiller in the 
Alsace region that is nowadays part of France; both families came to America 
around 1750.[161] 2 Russia is a transcontinental country in Eastern Europe 
and Northern Asia. The vast majority of its population (80%) lives in European 
Russia, therefore Russia as a whole is included as a European country here. 
3 Yugoslav Americans are the American people from the former Yugoslavia. 
4 Turkey is a transcontinental country in the Middle East and Southeast 
Europe. Has a small part of its territory (3%) in Southeast Europe called 
Turkish Thrace. 5 Azerbaijan and Georgia are transcontinental countries. 
They have a small part of their territories in the European part of the 
Caucasus. 6 Kazakhstan is technically a bicontinental country, having a 
