Herman A. "Germany" Schaefer (February 4, 1876 – May 16, 1919) was a second 
baseman, first baseman and third baseman in Major League Baseball who played 
fifteen seasons with the Chicago Cubs, Detroit Tigers, Washington Senators, 
Newark Pepper, New York Yankees, and Cleveland Indians. Born William Herman 
Schaefer in the south side of Chicago to German immigrant parents, he played 
in two World Series with the Tigers.[1] During the 1909 season, Schaefer 
and Red Killefer were traded by the Tigers to the Senators for Jim Delahanty. 
In 1,150 career games, Schaefer batted .257 with 9 home runs and 201 stolen 
bases. Schaefer was known as both a baseball trickster and a tactician 
in the early years of 20th century baseball. Well liked, stories of his 
exploits dot both the memories of his contemporaries and the newspaper 
reports of the time. One of his most famous exploits was stealing first 
base, which was perhaps erroneously recalled in Lawrence Ritter's The Glory 
of Their Times by Detroit outfielder Davy Jones. With runners on first 
and third, a common ploy in baseball at the time was an attempted double 
steal, in which the runner heading from first (in this case Schaefer) ran 
for second, hoping to draw a throw from the catcher as the runner on third 
tried to scamper home. The catcher did not throw the first time, inspiring 
Schaefer to steal first base in reverse and then attempt the double steal 
once more on the following pitch. It worked in Jones' recollection although 
factual evidence of this is lacking.[citation needed] On August 4, 1911, 
Schaefer tried the same stunt again, this time for the Washington Senators, 
inspiring the Chicago White Sox' manager, Hugh Duffy, to come out of the 
dugout to protest. With the chaos on the field, Clyde Milan attempted to 
steal home, where he was thrown out. This event was recorded by both the 
Washington Post and the Chicago Tribune on the following day. Although 
it was not passed until 1920, after Schaefer's death, rule 7.08i states 
that a player is out if "After he has acquired legal possession of a base, 
he runs the bases in reverse order for the purpose of confusing the defense 
or making a travesty of the game. The umpire shall immediately call 'Time' 
and declare the runner out." It is often said that it was passed because 
of Schaefer's thefts. Though a clown on the field, Schaefer had a very 
sound baseball mind. He also made lots of friends throughout the baseball 
world, including the irascible Ty Cobb. Schaefer bestowed upon Walter Johnson 
his nickname "Barney" at a traffic stop, claiming that Johnson was Barney 
Oldfield, the racecar driver, a stunt that got him out of a speeding ticket. 
Schaefer modified his own moniker, "Germany", replacing it with "Liberty" 
after the United States declared war on Germany in 1917. Schaefer was the 
player representative present at the meeting held in preparation for the 
1907 World Series between Schaefer's team, the Tigers, and the Chicago 
Cubs. The others in the meeting, discussing ground rules, players' pool, 
etc., were "Garry" Herrman, owner of the Cincinnati Reds and head of the 
Commission; the league presidents Ban Johnson and Harry Pulliam, the managers 
Hughie Jennings and Frank Chance, and the two umpires, Hank O'Day and Jack 
Sheridan. Schaefer asked "Is a tie game a legal game?" It was supposedly 
a trivial question, but Schaefer made a point: If there is a tie game in 
the Series, do the players share in its gate receipts? After a short discussion 
with Johnson and Pulliam, Herrman answered, 'The players' pool will include 
receipts from any tie games.' As luck would have it, the first game was 
a 12-inning, 3–3 tie, called due to darkness. The players shared in the 
receipts of all five games (the Cubs won the next four in a row). But a 
month later the Commission changed its ruling: The players share in the 
receipts of the first four games only, ties or no ties. Jimmy McAleer, 
Schaefer's manager with the Washington Senators, took him on several barnstorming 
all star trips, and with an all star team posing as the New York Giants 
he traveled around the world in 1913, playing a variety of positions and 
entertaining crowds and his teammates alike. In Ceylon, Schaefer even struck 
up a kinship with tea magnate Sir Thomas Lipton. Schaefer was a pioneer 
of baseball clowning, and his vaudeville act with teammate Charley O'Leary 
was inspiration for the MGM musical Take Me Out To The Ball Game starring 
Gene Kelly and Frank Sinatra. He also teamed with Nick Altrock, who later 
took baseball clowning to legendary heights with Al Schacht. Among Schaefer's 
legendary antics are diversionary tactics with umbrellas, raincoats and 
galoshes, to get games canceled on account of the weather. In one story 
he wears the outfit out onto the playing field, in another he wears it 
to the plate during a drizzle, but when the umpire sends him back to the 
dugout to take it off, the rains begin to pour, forcing the umpire to indeed 
call the game. An account of Schaefer wearing a raincoat onto the field 
occurs in the July 4, 1906, edition of the Washington Post. It is not known 
whether he wore it on offense or defense. In 1919, a little over a year 
after Schaefer played his last game, he died in Saranac Lake, New York. 
Several of his baseball contemporaries died of tuberculosis at the sanitarium 
there, and that disease also claimed Schaefer. While on a scouting trip 
to Lake Placid, New York, Schaefer suffered a fatal hemorrhage complicating 
his pulmonary tuberculosis. He died at 9:30 AM on May 16, 1919, at age 
42, according to the death certificate signed by John A. Farrell, M.D. 
