Gerritsen Beach is a neighborhood in the New York City borough of Brooklyn, 
located between Sheepshead Bay to the west and Marine Park to the east.[1] 
The area is served by Brooklyn Community Board 15.[2] The population of 
the neighborhood is 8,353 as of the 2010 U.S. census. The neighborhood 
is named for Wolphert Gerretse, a Dutch settler, who, in the early seventeenth 
century, built a house and mill on Gerritsen Creek, which is now part of 
the nearby Marine Park neighborhood.[3] The three-hundred-year-old mill 
was destroyed by fire in 1931. The famous Whitney family owned property 
by the mill and built a mansion. The Mansion had horse stables, servant 
quarters, a carriage house, and a private race track. The Mansion was knocked 
down in 1936 for the Marine Park Building Developments but the carriage 
house was still left standing. The Carriage house was converted into a 
private home that is still standing today. Until the early twentieth century, 
the area remained undeveloped except for a few squatters’ bungalows clustered 
at the foot of Gerritsen Avenue. In 1920, Realty Associates, a speculative 
real-estate builder, began constructing a middle-class summer resort there. 
The southwestern section of Gerritsen’s meadow was soon covered to one-story 
bungalows with peaked roofs and no backyards. The popularity of this venture 
spurred further growth. Some bungalow-owners made them suitable for year-round 
habitation; others built two-story houses with backyards; and, within a 
decade, there were fifteen hundred houses in Gerritsen Beach. Almost all 
homes in the Gerritsen Beach area were damaged and/or affected by seawater 
on October 29, 2012 from Hurricane Sandy due to its peninsula characteristics. 
Almost all of the residents did not leave the neighborhood before the flooding 
began. The flood waters reached a record 10–12 ft in some parts of the 
neighborhood. A bar from Deep Creek Marina, two miles away, floated into 
the neighborhood,[4] with bottles and seating intact.[5] The damage was 
so severe, that it led Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to reclassify Gerritsen 
Beach as Zone A. Gerritsen Beach lies on a peninsula in the southeastern 
part of Brooklyn, near Marine Park; it is bounded on the north by Midwood 
at Avenue U, to the east by Marine Park at Gerritsen Avenue, to the south 
by Plumb Beach and the Plumb Beach Channel, and to the west by Sheepshead 
Bay at Shell Bank Creek and Knapp Street.[1] It is bisected, from west 
to east, by the Gotham Avenue Canal. The area north of the canal, known 
as the "new section" by local residents, has traditional city streets lined 
with stores, brick houses, and wide sidewalks. The area south of the canal 
(the "old section") is a popular spot for party boats and chartered fishing 
boats to be berthed. The typical size of the land lots in the community 
are 40 by 45 feet (12.19 by 13.72 meters) in the old section, 34 by 52 
feet (10.36 by 15.85 meters) in the new section and 24 by 70 feet (7.32 
by 21.34 meters) on the waterfront.[1] The streets in Gerritsen Beach are 
in alphabetical order (that is, Aster, Bevy, Celeste, Dictum, etc.), and 
they are patrolled by officers of the New York Police Department's 61st 
Precinct. The neighborhood has a large Irish-Catholic presence in the community. 
A few long-standing residents of Irish descent refer to the community as 
being cois farraige, which is an Irish language phrase meaning "by the 
sea". The remaining percentage of the population is predominantly of Italian 
and German descent. The neighborhood is the location of the New York City 
Department of Education's Public School 277, an elementary school known 
as the Gerritsen Beach School. Brooklyn Blue-Feather School, 2335 Gerritsen 
Ave. is for special-needs children operates in the former Resurrection 
school building. The Gerritsen Ballfields, consisting of three baseball 
fields, two athletic fields for soccer or football, and one Little League 
field, are located on the east side of Gerritsen Avenue, in addition to 
a "mini-airport" for motorized model airplanes located at Seba Avenue and 
Gerritsen Avenue. In 1993, this site benefited from a $192,000 renovation 
sponsored by Borough Council Member Herbert E. Berman. Also, recreational 
fishing is very popular with citizens of the community, as anglers are 
found fishing along the shore at the southern end of Gerritsen Avenue and 
along the adjacent shoreline of the Gerritsen Creek-Marine Park "salt marsh". 
The Gerritsen Creek estuary and the adjacent salt marsh is also a major 
spawning ground for various species of marine fish. Although riding quads 
is popular at this park, the activity is illegal everywhere in New York 
City and is destructive to the park's fragile ecosystem. The local Volunteer 
Fire Department (a.k.a. "the Vollies"), the last remaining volunteer fire 
department in Brooklyn, was organized in 1922 when Gerritsen Beach was 
a small summer-resort community. The name of the department is officially 
spelled Gerrittsen Beach Fire Department [sic]. In 1921, a damaging fire 
on Abbey Court demonstrated to the community that the city’s regular fire 
apparatus could not reach the beach in time to put out a fire. A mass meeting 
was called by the residents, and that resulted in the organization of the 
only volunteer fire department in Brooklyn. Before the city added water 
mains under Gerritsen Beach streets, the Volunteers had to handle fires 
at least three times a week. The danger posed to Gerritsen Beach residents 
by fire was especially acute because most families relied on oil stoves 
and kerosene lamps, and the water to fight fires had to be pumped from 
wells. The city did not build Engine Company 321's firehouse at Gerritsen 
Avenue and Avenue U until October 4, 1930. Members of the fire brigade, 
currently known as the Vollies, were, in earlier times, nicknamed "the 
Vamps". Members are not only trained to fight fires, but also to rescue 
people who are drowning and to assist in other medical emergencies. According 
to the Vollies 1976 anniversary booklet, the Vollies were approved by the 
New York State Department of Health as an Emergency Services Training Center. 
Although the community is now served by Engine Company 321, strong support 
for the "Vollies" continues. The following historical events involved the 
Gerritsen Beach volunteers in actions outside their own neighborhood: The 
Gerrittsen Beach Volunteer Fire Department has one fire engine and one 
ambulance. Coordinates: 40°35′29″N 73°55′36″W﻿ / ﻿40.59139°N 73.92667°W﻿ 
