Giant Eagle is a supermarket chain with stores in the U.S. states of Pennsylvania, 
Ohio, West Virginia, Indiana and Maryland. The company was founded in 1918 
in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and incorporated on March 17, 1933.[1] Supermarket 
News ranked Giant Eagle No. 21 in the 2012 "Top 75 North American Food 
Retailers" based on 2011 fiscal year estimated sales of $9.3 billion.[3] 
In 2005, it was the 32nd-largest privately held corporation, as determined 
by Forbes.[4] Based on 2005 revenue, Giant Eagle is the 49th-largest retailer 
in the United States.[5] As of Summer 2014, the company has approximately 
$9.9 billion in annual sales, Giant Eagle has 417 stores. The company also 
operates 168 fuel station/convenience stores under the GetGo banner. The 
company operates its corporate headquarters in an office park in the Pittsburgh 
suburb of O'Hara Township. After World War I, three Pittsburgh-area families--the 
Goldsteins, Porters, and Chaits--built a grocery chain called Eagle Grocery. 
In 1928, Eagle, now 125 stores strong, merged with Kroger Company. The 
three families agreed to stay out of the grocery business for at least 
three years. Meanwhile, the Moravitz and Weizenbaum families built their 
own successful chain of grocery stores named OK Grocery. In 1931, OK Grocery 
merged with Eagle Grocery to form Giant Eagle, which was incorporated two 
years later. Giant Eagle quickly expanded across western Pennsylvania, 
weathering the Great Depression and World War II.[6] The chain remained 
based solely in western Pennsylvania until the 1980s, when it bought Youngstown, 
Ohio-based wholesaler Tamarkin Company, and its Valu-King stores that were 
converted to the Giant Eagle name. The Kent and Ravenna, stores were the 
first to be converted at that time; the Youngstown stores then got converted 
years later. Around mid or late 1990s, Giant Eagle later reached Cleveland 
by acquiring the Stop-n-Shop stores in the area. Stop-n-Shop stores were 
family owned and operated in different areas of Cleveland. The family operators 
of Stop-n-Shop formed a holding company named International Seaway Foods 
as the main umbrella for Stop-n-Shop. In 1998, Giant Eagle acquired the 
International Seaway Foods and converted the Stop-n-Shop Stores into Giant 
Eagle Stores. Giant Eagle also purchased or opened other Northeast Ohio 
stores outside the Stop-n-Shop area, such as the former Apples supermarkets 
in the nearby Akron, Ohio area. The company entered the Toledo market, 
opening two stores in 2001 and 2004, both of which have now closed. Giant 
Eagle emerged as one of the dominant supermarket chains in Northeast Ohio, 
competing mainly against the New York-based Tops, from which it purchased 
18 stores in October 2006. The purchases came as Tops exited the Northeast 
Ohio area. Giant Eagle purchased independently owned County Market stores, 
giving it a store in Somerset, Pennsylvania, a new store in Johnstown, 
Pennsylvania, and its first Maryland stores: one in Cumberland, one in 
Hagerstown, and two in Frederick. The Cumberland store closed in December 
2003, and the Hagerstown store closed in August 2005. Giant Eagle has aggressively 
expanded its footprint in the Greater Columbus area, capitalizing on the 
demise of the former Big Bear supermarket chain, and taking Big Bear's 
traditional place as Columbus' upmarket grocer. Giant Eagle first entered 
what it calls its "Columbus Region" in late 2000, opening three large newly 
built stores at Sawmill and Bethel Rd., Lewis Center, and Dublin-Granville 
Rd., with two more following in 2002 and 2003 at Gahanna and Hilliard-Rome 
Rd. In 2004, Giant Eagle purchased nine former Big Bear stores in Columbus, 
Newark, and Marietta from parent company Penn Traffic. Giant Eagle has 
since expanded to several additional locations, acquiring other abandoned 
Big Bear stores and in newly constructed buildings using the current Giant 
Eagle prototype. Giant Eagle opened its 20th Columbus-area at New Albany 
Road at the Ohio Rt. 161 freeway (New Albany) in August 2007, its 21st 
area store at Hayden Run and Cosgray Roads (Dublin) in November 2007, its 
22nd area store at Stelzer and McCutcheon Roads (Columbus) in July 2008 
and its 23rd area store at South Hamilton Road and Winchester Pike (Groveport) 
in August 2008. A new Giant Eagle opened in Lancaster, in November 2008, 
and the former Big Bear located at Blacklick Crossing is undergoing an 
expansion and remodeling. Giant Eagle has the highest share of any supermarket 
chain in the Pittsburgh area, largely due to being a de facto monopoly 
in the region (only Aldi and stores supplied by Supervalu such as Shop 
'n Save, FoodLand, Save-A-Lot, and County Market even have a presence in 
the area, let alone significant market share), but has lost some market 
share in recent years due to Walmart's construction of supercenters in 
the area, as well as no frills supermarkets attracting value-seeking customers 
such as Aldi, Save-A-Lot, and relative newcomer Bottom Dollar, in 2014 
Bottom Dollar ceased its business in Pittsburgh. Aside from Walmart, Giant 
Eagle's last major competitor in the Pittsburgh market was Kroger, which 
had bought the original Eagle but abruptly abandoned Western Pennsylvania 
in the mid-1980s due to labor issues with its union as well as the local 
economy at the time. Many Giant Eagle locations in Pennsylvania and Northeast 
Ohio occupy former Kroger sites and used the distinctive Kroger prototypes 
from the 1980s with the sloped glass roof entrance until most of the stores 
were remodeled or replaced with newer stores in the early 2000s with Giant 
Eagle's current prototype. Kroger and Giant Eagle still compete head-to-head 
in the nearby Morgantown, West Virginia, Wheeling, West Virginia, and Weirton, 
West Virginia/Steubenville, Ohio areas, as well as Columbus; except for 
Columbus, Giant Eagle is a virtual non-factor in markets where it competes 
with Kroger. In 1991, Giant Eagle introduced the "Advantage Card", an electronic 
loyalty card discount system (already popular in many chains), as a sophisticated 
version of the obsolete stamp programs. The card was later modified to 
double as a video rental card for Iggle Video. More recently the company 
has started the Fuelperks! program to entice customers. This program allows 
customer the opportunity to earn 10 cents off each gallon of gas (20 cents 
in select markets) with fifty dollars worth of authorized purchases. In 
early 2009, Giant Eagle launched the Foodperks! program, mainly geared 
towards GetGo. This program allows customers who use their fuelperks at 
GetGo to also earn foodperks to save on groceries purchased at Giant Eagle. 
Every 10 gallons of gas purchased earns a 1% discount. This can be used 
up to 20% maximum at a time on a purchase of up to $300. Foodperks are 
good for 90 days and fuelperks are good for 60 days. If the customer has 
more than the price of gasoline or more than the 20%, those discounts will 
stay on your card for the remainder of the 90/60 days, and if they are 
not used by then, they expire. In February 2013, Giant Eagle announced 
that they would be discontinuing the Foodperks! program that month because 
it was "a little too complex".[7] There are 221 store and GetGo locations 
in the United States: 99 in western Pennsylvania, 122 in central, northeastern, 
and eastern Ohio, 2 in Morgantown, West Virginia, and 2 in Frederick, Maryland. 
Each store carries between 22,000 and 60,000 items, approximately 5,000 
of which are branded by Giant Eagle. Giant Eagle offers over twenty-four 
different departments across its stores. The range of services includes 
Redbox video terminals, dry cleaning, in-store day care, and pharmacies. 
Giant Eagle also has banking partnerships with Citizens Bank in Pennsylvania 
and Huntington Bank in Ohio and West Virginia, both of which have their 
branches open inside Giant Eagle branches seven days a week except for 
federal holidays. The chain has built large prototypes, and it has experimented 
with many departments unusual to supermarkets. Larger stores feature vast 
selections of ethnic and organic food, dry cleaning services, Iggle video, 
drive-thru pharmacies, in-store banking, Eagle's Nest (for daycare purposes 
while shopping), as well as in-store coffee shops and prepared foods. Prepared 
foods are also sold at larger GetGo locations that can accommodate a GetGo 
Kitchen. The Giant Eagle stores franchised by the McKillop Family (Altoona, 
Bedford, and Ebensburg) hold a yearly event with the American Cancer Society. 
The "Grocer's Fight Cancer Day" event is held the first Thursday of October. 
It features live entertainment, food demos, unbelievable one day deals, 
and games of chance. The event is in its 19th year and has raised over 
$600,000 dollars for the ACS. Although older Giant Eagle locations tend 
to be unionized and some are even franchised stores, in recent years the 
company has started leaning toward non-union company-owned-and-operated 
stores. In areas where a franchised store exists, if a GetGo exists nearby, 
it's operated by Giant Eagle itself, separate from the franchised supermarket. 
Giant Eagle operated two stores in the Toledo metropolitan area from 2006 
to 2011, one in Sylvania Township on Central Avenue just west of I-475 
and another in Perrysburg, but both were closed by 2011. Giant Eagle has 
rebranded some of its stores as Market District, in an attempt to attract 
upscale shoppers. The initial two stores opened in June 2006 in the upscale 
communities of Shadyside within the City of Pittsburgh and Bethel Park 
in southern Allegheny County, Pennsylvania.[8] The Shadyside store was 
expanded from 25,000 square feet (2,300 m2) to 78,000 square feet (7,200 m2), 
and uses sustainable design, including a green roof.[9] The Bethel Park 
store is 117,000 square feet (10,900 m2) in size.[10] The stores offer 
free Wi-Fi, churrasco-style foods, a Kosher Deli, Cheese Cave, Smoke & 
Fire Rotisserie, Pizza Shop with a stone hearth, Sandwich Shop, and a Sushi 
Bar[11][12] a smoothie bar and other options not offered at other Giant 
Eagle locations.[13][14] The Giant Eagle name is still evident on the logos 
for the rebranded stores.[15] The third Market District store opened on 
November 5, 2009, in the Pittsburgh suburb of Robinson Township. The store 
is part of the new Settlers Ridge development, and is the largest at 150,000 
square feet (14,000 m2). This store is also the largest supermarket in 
western Pennsylvania.[16] It replaced the 95,000-square-foot (8,800 m2) 
Giant Eagle store across from Robinson Town Center.[17][18] This store 
expanded on the successful offerings in the initial two locations. New 
to Market District in this store is a Crepe and Rosti bar, Candy Shop, 
Gelato Bar, Cooking School, Panini Station, Salad Station, and an on-site 
nutritionist located in the pharmacy.[19] Also, this store is the first 
grocery store in the Pittsburgh area to sell beer. This location is now 
the Flagship Market District store, and all research and development for 
the chain will be conducted in this location.[16] The fourth Market District 
store opened on October 14, 2010, in Upper Arlington, Ohio. This store 
is the first Market District in Ohio; it is part of the Kingsdale Shopping 
Center redevelopment project in the Columbus Metro Area. The 127,000 square 
feet (11,800 m2) store replaced the 56,000 square feet (5,200 m2) store 
it acquired from Big Bear several years before.[20] The fifth Market District 
store opened on January 12, 2012, in the Pittsburgh suburb of Pine Township.[21] 
Originally, the 87,500 square feet (8,130 m2) store was opened as a Giant 
Eagle in February 2008.[22] After renovations and an expansion to 90,000 
square feet (8,400 m2) to accommodate the new products and prepared food 
departments,[23] the store became the fourth Market District in the Pittsburgh 
region. It is also the first Market District store to have an on site GetGo 
gas station and convenience store.[24] The sixth Market District store 
opened on July 11, 2013 in Dublin, Ohio.[25] Being the second location 
in the Columbus metro area, it consists of a former Big Bear store that 
was renovated and expanded. The 94,000 square feet (8,700 m2) store is 
the first to feature a sit-down sushi bar and Sizzling Wok, which offers 
Chinese and Vietnamese meals. This location was chosen since the original 
Giant Eagle store in the Columbus market location drew the most shoppers 
from Dublin.[25] The seventh Market District store opened in the Cleveland, 
Ohio suburb of Solon on August 8, 2013.[26] This store is the first Market 
District store in the Cleveland, Ohio market. It replaced the existing 
Giant Eagle store by relocating to the new Solon Village Shopping Center.[27] 
The Solon Market District store is 92,000 square feet (8,500 m2) in size,.[28] 
The eighth Market District store opened in Green, Ohio on November 7, 2013. 
The store was originally undergoing a simple renovation until Akron-based 
Acme Fresh Market announced their opening of a new Green Location located 
only across the street from the existing Giant Eagle Store. This store 
is 85,000 square feet (7,900 m2) in size [29] and features a sit-down cafe, 
Sizzling Wok, as well as an Ohio State Liquor store.[30] The ninth Market 
District store opened on September 5, 2014 in Columbus, Ohio at Grandview 
Yard. This store replaces an older Giant Eagle and is nearly 101,000 square 
feet (9,400 m2) in size. The Grandview Yard store is one of the Market 
District stores to feature a sit-down cafe, Sizzling Wok, and an Ohio State 
Liquor store. As part of the development, the new store also features an 
on-site GetGo gas station. The tenth Market District store opened in the 
Cleveland, Ohio suburb of Strongsville on October 9, 2014.[31] The new 
Market District store replaced the existing Giant Eagle store located at 
the Southpark Center plaza. Strongsville's Market District store is larger 
than the Solon location, just under 107,000 square feet (9,900 m2) and 
features a sit down bar with wine and 18 beers on tap, in addition to the 
standard departments found in other Market District locations. It is the 
first location in the Cleveland area (second in the chain) to feature the 
Market District Cooking School.[32] The eleventh Market District opened 
in Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio on December 4, 2014.[33] The new store is 94,000 
square feet (8,700 m2) in size and was built as a part of the new Portage 
Crossing business development.[34] This one replaces Giant Eagle's nearby 
store and was the first Market District store built from the ground up 
in the Akron area.[35] The twelfth Market District store is in the Pittsburgh 
area suburb of Aspinwall at Waterworks Mall.[36] The 100,000 square feet 
(9,300 m2) Giant Eagle Supermarket, was expanded to 103,000 square feet 
(9,600 m2) square feet, heavily renovated, and rebranded as a Giant Eagle 
Market District. The newly renovated store celebrated its opening on January 
22, 2015.[37] The thirteenth Market District store is in the Indianapolis 
suburb of Carmel at the brand new development called The Bridges. This 
is Giant Eagle's first store in the state of Indiana [38] and could potentially 
mean additional stores opening in the state. The store is 120,000 square 
feet (11,000 m2) in size and has an on site GetGo convenience store and 
gas station.[39] Giant Eagle Express is a concept store of Giant Eagle. 
As of May 2016, there is only one operating store, located in Harmar Township, 
Pennsylvania. The Indiana, Pennsylvania location closed its doors before 
the beginning of the Indiana University of Pennsylvania Fall 2015 Semester. 
The store is larger than a GetGo, but much smaller than a regular Giant 
Eagle supermarket store. However, the store offers many of the same services 
as a Giant Eagle, such as a deli and a drive-through pharmacy. Giant Eagle 
Express also offers a café with prepared sandwiches, Giant Eagle's own 
Market District coffee, salad bar, and a wireless internet connection. 
Outside, GetGo gasoline is available.[40] On June 4, 2013, Giant Eagle 
has revealed that they will be launching the new Market District Express 
concept. This concept is designed to be a hybrid of the flagship Market 
District format launched in 2006 with the Giant Eagle Express format that 
was launched in 2007. The first store announced for the Columbus, Ohio 
suburb of Bexley, where the former City Hall will be redeveloped to accommodate 
the new store. It's also reported that the new store may feature a second 
floor, similar to the Market District stores in Robinson, PA, Upper Arlington 
and Solon, OH.[41] The store is scheduled to open by 2015. Even though 
the first store was announced for Bexley, the first Market District Express 
store opened December 5, 2013 in the Washington County, PA suburb of Peters 
Township. At 15,500 sq. ft., the store still offers many items found in 
the full-scale Market District stores, along with a sit-down restaurant, 
pharmacy, Starbucks Coffee, and on-site GetGo gas station.[42] Giant Eagle 
began adding pharmacies to their stores in the 1980s, along with other 
"store-within-a-store" concepts photo, floral, and video rental. In 2006, 
Giant Eagle attracted much attention[citation needed] when it became the 
first pharmacy in the region to offer over 300 generic prescription medications 
for $4. As of June 2008, Giant Eagle has updated the pharmacy pricing structure 
to include several generic prescription medications at $4 for a thirty-day 
supply and $10 for a ninety-day supply. The program has been very successful 
for the company and the pharmacy.[43] The pharmacies are also willing to 
price-match local pharmacies. Giant Eagle Pharmacy also offers several 
immunizations across the year for Pneumonia, Influenza, and Zostavax. These 
are typically walk-in, but vary depending on the pharmacists available.[44] 
Giant Eagle partnered with Arlington Lens Supply in 2010 to sell contact 
lenses online via their website. Giant Eagle has a contract to operate 
Starbucks kiosks in some of its stores; the workers are employed by Giant 
Eagle, but become certified baristas after completing the process.[citation 
needed] Giant Eagle was the largest shareholder of the Phar-Mor chain during 
its heyday in the 1980s and 1990s, although it was operated separate from 
the main Giant Eagle chain.[45] The Shapira family that owns Giant Eagle 
provided Phar-Mor founder Mickey Monus with the financing necessary to 
start his chain. After Monus was convicted of embezzlement, Phar-Mor filed 
for bankruptcy and eventually liquidated. Due to Giant Eagle's stake in 
Phar-Mor, it was able to acquire Phar-Mor's Youngstown-area assets in bankruptcy 
court after the chain liquidated. Giant Eagle once operated Iggle Video 
locations inside many of its locations to serve as its video rental shop. 
Like Giant Eagle Pharmacy, Iggle Video (which spelled "eagle" from its 
phonetic pronunciation in Pittsburghese, even outside of Pittsburgh) never 
operated in stand-alone locations. Like other video rental chains, Iggle 
Video offered movie and video game rentals. They also served as the local 
Ticketmaster outlet in the Pittsburgh region before the advent of the Internet 
made it possible to buy live event tickets from Ticketmaster online. In 
the mid-late 2000's, Giant Eagle phased these stores out in favor of Redbox 
automated retail machines, with Ticketmaster sales moved to the customer 
service desk. In October 2004, Giant Eagle began a long-term experiment 
with in-store optometry centers dubbed "Giant Eagle Optical." There were 
four locations in the Pittsburgh area: North Hills (McIntyre Square), South 
Hills (Donaldson's Crossroads), east (Monroeville), and west (Robinson). 
The stores accepted most major vision plans and offered a wide variety 
of designer frames, as well as exclusive Giant Eagle brands. They also 
participated in the Fuelperks! program and were staffed mostly by ABO-certified 
opticians. Noting that "some programs don't prove viable across a broad 
number of stores," Giant Eagle chose to close its Optical locations beginning 
in August 2009.[46] In December 2008, Giant Eagle opened its first Valu 
King supermarket in Eastlake, Ohio.[47] The Valu King name dates back to 
the 1980s, when Giant Eagle bought Youngstown wholesaler Tamarkin Co. and 
its Valu King stores were eventually converted to the Giant Eagle name. 
Today, Valu King operates stores in Eastlake, Ravenna, and Brooklyn in 
Ohio and Johnstown and Erie in Pennsylvania, with the most recent store 
opening in May 2012. In 2012, Giant Eagle opened a new low-cost supermarket 
concept called Good Cents, located in Ross Township, Pennsylvania. The 
concept is similar to that of a Valu King, but carries a slightly larger 
product selection. Good Cents eventually replaced Valu King as Giant Eagle's 
low-cost brand.[48] Good Cents and Valu King both are no frills stores 
designed to compete with similar stores such as Aldi, Save-A-Lot, and Bottom 
Dollar Food. On February 25, 2015, Giant Eagle announced it would close 
all the Good Cents stores by the end of March. It was looking for open 
spots at nearby Giant Eagle locations for displaced employees.[49] On March 
2, 2015, all Good Cents stores were sold and closed. Giant Eagle has about 
36,000 employees and many of them are unionized under United Food and Commercial 
Workers Local 23 of Pittsburgh, and UFCW Local 880 of Cleveland. The Maryland 
and Columbus stores are not unionized, much like some independently owned 
stores throughout Pennsylvania and the Youngstown, Ohio area. In late 2007, 
Giant Eagle's Columbus division was ranked by employees through a Business 
First survey as one of the top ten places to work in Central Ohio.[citation 
needed] Some employees in the Eagle's Nest and Photo Lab departments are 
also nonunion employees. Giant Eagle currently uses the slogan "That's 
Another Giant Eagle Advantage"[50] with its advertising, focusing on the 
eAdvantage offer of the week. This campaign features store employees and 
customers to put their own spin on what Giant Eagle offers. The campaign 
includes a focus on product selection, quality, customer service, and price 
leadership.[51] From 2011 to 2014 the slogan was "That's my Giant Eagle 
Advantage". From 2009 until 2011, the slogan was "Low prices. Uncompromising 
quality." In December 2009, a variation being used was "Lower prices. Uncompromising 
quality." for online advertisements on thepittsburghchannel.com website.[52] 
From 2001 until 2009, the slogan "Make every day taste better", was used. 
It was meant to showcase product quality as compared to the convenience 
focus used in the previous campaign.[51] From 1993 until 2001, "It takes 
a giant to make life simple." was used as the slogan. This was focused 
on convenience, and spawned the "Fe Fi Fo Fum" commercials. The commercials 
featured everything from the general store, the produce and deli departments 
to a spot featuring Jay Bell and Jeff King of the Pittsburgh Pirates. This 
replaced the previous "A lot you can feel good about...especially the price" 
motto. The chain, under pressure from Wal-Mart, has implemented a lower 
prices campaign throughout its stores, featured on products customers buy 
most. Giant Eagle also sells Topco-produced Valu Time products, which are 
substantially cheaper than other private-label and name-brand merchandise. 
These co-exist with the Giant Eagle branded items, which are priced lower 
than national brands yet higher than Valu Time. Before these brands existed, 
Giant Eagle generally used Topco's Food Club label as the generic product.[citation 
