The Giants–Yankees rivalry is a Major League Baseball rivalry between the 
San Francisco Giants of the National League and the New York Yankees of 
the American League. It was particularly intense when both teams not only 
inhabited New York City but also, for a time, the same ball park.[1] During 
that era the opportunities for them to meet could only have been in a World 
Series. Both teams kicked off the first Subway Series between the two leagues 
in 1921. The American League was at its infancy at the start of the 20th 
century. The current Yankees franchise had its origins in Baltimore as 
the Baltimore Orioles. At the time, rivalry between the National League 
and the American League was fierce. In 1902, long time National League 
executive John T. Brush gained a partial ownership interest in the Orioles, 
and released four key team members—Hall of Fame manager John McGraw, Hall 
of Fame pitcher Joe McGinnity, Hall of Fame catcher Roger Bresnahan and 
starting first baseman Dan McGann—from their Orioles' contract to join 
the National League New York Giants.[2][3][4] Brush also allowed other 
Orioles' players to join other National League teams.[4] Later that year, 
Brush became owner of the Giants.[2][3][4] The fledgling league realized 
they needed to capitalize on the big market of New York City and American 
League president Ban Johnson wanted revenge on McGraw and Brush for their 
antics with the Orioles.[5] So the American League moved the Orioles to 
New York, where the established National League Giants and the Brooklyn 
Dodgers teams were already located, over the Giants' and Dodgers' objections 
and despite their efforts to use their political influence within New York 
to prevent the move.[3][5] The team was eventually called the Highlanders 
due to their homefield being on Hilltop Park from 1903-12. The Highlanders 
had a successful season in 1904 and were just one game away from winning 
the pennant that year. Highlanders star pitcher Jack Chesbro, who had won 
41 games that year (an AL record that still stands today), was pitching 
in the bottom of the 9th inning to their eventual fierce rival the Boston 
Americans. One of Chesbro's spitballs got away allowing Boston to score 
and win the game and pennant on the wild pitch. The modern day World Series 
was played in 1903 between the winners of the American League and the National 
League, but when the Giants won the NL pennant in 1904 they refused to 
play Boston in the fall classic. Giants' owner Brush stated "There is nothing 
in the constitution or playing rules of the National League which requires 
its victorious club to submit its championship honors to a contest with 
a victorious club in a minor league."[2] This move by the Giants made the 
1905 season as the first one to have the World Series as the official matchup 
between the winners of the American and National Leagues. The Giants briefly 
shared Hilltop Park as a home for two months in 1911 when the Polo Grounds 
was under reconstruction from a fire and relations between the two teams 
had warmed as a result. This paved way for the Highlanders to move into 
the new Polo Grounds in 1913. Now playing on the Harlem River, a far cry 
from their high-altitude home, the name "Highlanders" no longer applied, 
and fell into disuse among the press. The media had already widely adopted 
the "Yankees" nickname coined by the New York Press, and in 1913 the team 
became officially known as the New York Yankees. By the mid-1910s, Yankees 
owners Farrell and Devery had become estranged and were both in need of 
money. At the start of 1915, they sold the team to Colonel Jacob Ruppert 
and Captain Tillinghast L'Hommedieu Huston for $1.25 million. Ruppert inherited 
a brewery fortune, providing the Yankees with an owner who possessed deep 
pockets and a willingness to dig into them to produce a winning team by 
making moves such as acquiring Boston star Babe Ruth in 1918. The home 
run-hitting exploits of Ruth proved so popular with the public that they 
began drawing more people than their landlords, the Giants. By the middle 
of 1920, the Giants had issued both an initial eviction notice which was 
soon rescinded and a temporary lease extension to the Yankees, allowing 
them to remain at the Polo Grounds until the end of 1922, when the Giants 
had planned to renovate the stadium and increase seating capacity from 
38,000 to 50,000.[6] The Giants' future Hall of Fame manager John McGraw 
hated the Yankees' slugging style of Ruth as opposed to the strategy of 
the dead ball era,[1] and was said to have commented that the Yankees should 
"move to some out-of-the-way place, like Queens." Meanwhile, Ruppert's 
investments paid off when the Yankees won their first AL pennant in 1921. 
This resulted in the inauguration of the heated Subway Series as previous 
matchups between the Giants and Brooklyn Dodgers were not referred to as 
Subway Series. The Yankees' matchup in the 1921 World Series were none 
other than their landlords, the Giants. This series saw the likes of several 
other future Hall of Famers in addition to Ruth and McGraw including Giants 
players Dave Bancroft, Frankie Frisch, George Kelly and Ross Youngs and 
Giants coaches Jesse Burkett, Christy Mathewson and Hughie Jennings, while 
Miller Huggins and Frank Baker rounded out the Yankees. This series was 
also the last of the experimental best-of-nine format, with the Giants 
winning the championship five games to the Yankees' three. In 1922, the 
Yankees returned to the World Series, losing again to the Giants for the 
second straight year. The Giants showed talents from their previous year 
in addition to eventual Hall of Fame player Travis Jackson. There was also 
a Giants player who would become a Hall of Fame manager for the Yankees, 
Casey Stengel. The Yankees themselves saw the addition of a future Hall 
of Famer to their team in pitcher Waite Hoyt. The series was known to be 
controversial as it had the third and final tie game in World Series history 
when the game was called because of darkness. Conspiratorial allegations 
of impropriety of ticket sales had surfaced as a result of the game being 
called, causing Commissioner Landis to order proceeds to go to charities 
funding reconstruction efforts of World War I. Meanwhile, the Yankees had 
broken ground for a new ballpark in the Bronx, right across the Harlem 
River from the Polo Grounds. The construction crew moved with remarkable 
speed and finished the new ballpark in less than a year. The Yankees moved 
from Manhattan borough to Bronx with the opening of Yankee Stadium where, 
with their star Babe Ruth, they drew larger crowds than ever before. Their 
first year saw Ruth and future Hall of Famer Herb Pennock lead them to 
win their first World Series ever over none other than the Giants. Between 
the two teams there were three rookies who would eventually be inducted 
into the Hall of Fame but who did not play in the series: Bill Terry and 
Hack Wilson for the Giants and Lou Gehrig for the Yankees. The teams went 
on to meet again in the fall classic over a decade later. Ruth had retired 
from baseball two years earlier and this turned out to be Joe DiMaggio's 
first. Giants Hall of Fame pitcher Carl Hubbell had won the first game 
for the Giants, but the Yankees rallied behind future Hall of Famers management 
of Joe McCarthy and the players Bill Dickey, Lefty Gomez, Tony Lazzeri, 
Red Ruffing and newly acquired left fielder Jake Powell's .455 avg, 10 
hits, 8 runs and 4 walks to overwhelm Hubbell, Jackson and Giants legend 
Mel Ott to win the series 4 games to 2. Both teams met again this year 
in the classic. It was Gehrig's last outstanding season before amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis (ALS) deteriorated his career. Gehrig's last World Series 
home run would be in this series off of Carl Hubbell in Hubbell's last 
ever inning pitched in the World Series. The Yankees became the first team 
in history to not commit any errors the entire series and eventually passed 
the Boston Red Sox and the Philadelphia Athletics for the most World Series 
wins, second only to the St. Louis Cardinals at the time. When Gehrig retired, 
he received gifts from the Giants organization. In his famous farewell 
speech two years later spoke of the rivalry: When the New York Giants, 
a team you would give your right arm to beat, and vice versa, sends you 
a gift - that's something.[7] In June 1939, announcer Mel Allen was hired 
by both teams to conduct play by play radio broadcasts. Allen was able 
to be the voice of broadcasts for both teams due to only home games being 
broadcast at the time. Allen would continue to broadcast for both the Giants 
and the Yankees until his entry into World War II in 1941. Upon his return, 
Allen only did Yankee broadcasts full-time up until 1964. Both teams met 
again in the 1951 World Series in what was a matchup of eccentric Hall 
of Fame managers. Leo Durocher of the Giants had led the Giants to the 
fall classic over Bobby Thomson's famous Shot Heard 'Round the World home 
run against the Brooklyn Dodgers. The Yankees had former Giants player 
Casey Stengel managing them. The Series would be the last for Joe DiMaggio 
and the first for the legendary Hall of Famers Mickey Mantle and Willie 
Mays. Several other All-Stars played, including Jim Hearn, Sal Maglie, 
Larry Jansen, Whitey Lockman, Alvin Dark and future Hall of Famer Monte 
Irvin for the Giants while Allie Reynolds, Vic Raschi, Gil McDougald, Eddie 
Lopat and future Hall of Famer Phil Rizzuto wore Yankee pinstripes. The 
series proved to be the last Subway Series between the two clubs. The Giants 
would bounce back in 1954 to win the World Series over the Cleveland Indians 
in one of the finest seasons for a team. That would be their last World 
Series win in New York as well as franchise history up until 2010. The 
Giants had been contemplating a move from New York when they were seeking 
a new stadium away from the crumbling Polo Grounds. Initially, Giants ownership 
was thinking of moving to Minnesota. However, San Francisco had its mayor 
at the time, George Christopher, approach the Giants about relocation to 
San Francisco. Brooklyn Dodgers owner Walter O'Malley had already been 
in negotiations with the city of Los Angeles to move the Dodgers there. 
MLB would not authorize the move unless a second team would also move to 
California. In an effort to preserve their fierce rivalry, majority owner 
Horace Stoneham caved in and announced the move. Joan Whitney Payson and 
M. Donald Grant were the only members of the Giants ownership board who 
objected. They both eventually would become part of the ownership of the 
new New York baseball team 5 years later, the New York Mets, who would 
adopt the Giants orange interlocking NY logo and their orange trim (mingled 
with royal blue from the Dodgers, as well as later incorporating pinstripes 
from the Yankees). The Yankees and Giants met for their first World Series 
in 1962 since the Giants had left. The series was closely contested by 
both teams.[8] The Giants had better statistics in ERA, batting average 
(where the Yankees had one of the worst post season averages ever)[9] and 
all categories of extra base hits yet wound up losing the series in 7 games. 
It was remembered for a then record 13 days series due to excessive rainfall 
in both cities. Hall of Famers Yogi Berra, Whitey Ford, Orlando Cepeda, 
Juan Marichal and Willie McCovey joined Mantle and Mays in the rivalry. 
The final game featured a good defensive play by Roger Maris, who had just 
broken Babe Ruth's single season home run record the year prior. With the 
Yankees leading 1-0 and Matty Alou on first, Willie Mays doubled toward 
the right-field line. Maris cut off the ball and made a strong throw to 
prevent Alou from scoring the tying run; the play set up Willie McCovey's 
series-ending line drive to second baseman Bobby Richardson of what would 
be their last world series matchup to date. Since Interleague play started, 
the teams have had limited meetings. The Yankees visited newly built Pac 
Bell Park in March 2000 for a preseason series marking their first visit 
to San Francisco in 38 years. June 6, 2002 saw the first meeting between 
the two clubs since the 1962 World Series. The Giants had come back to 
play at the old Yankee Stadium. Future home run king Barry Bonds remarked 
how he wanted to touch something of the Babe's as a respect for the history 
there.[10] Bonds would hit a home run to eventually obtain the record of 
being the only player in MLB history to have hit in all existing baseball 
stadiums during his playing career.[11] May 28, 2006 saw Bonds pass Ruth 
on the all time home run list as he hit his career number 715 off Colorado 
Rockies pitcher Byung-hyun Kim (who himself has a history with the Yankees 
giving up two walk off home runs to them in the 2001 World Series when 
he was with the Arizona Diamondbacks).[12][13] Bonds would also break another 
record once held by Ruth, and then later by Maris, of the most home runs 
hit in a single season when he won away the award from St. Louis Cardinal 
slugger Mark McGwire who had done so in 1998. Bonds would finish his career 
with 1,996 RBI, one ahead of legendary Yankee Lou Gehrig. Years later, 
the Giants hosted the Yankees at AT&T Park for the first time ever and 
won the series that included Bonds, Roger Clemens, Mariano Rivera, Derek 
Jeter and Alex Rodriguez. Former Yankee hero Dave Righetti was the Giants 
pitching coach for the series that saw Bonds hit his 749th home run as 
he eventually moved towards becoming the all-time home run king. Both of 
these series had the Yankees managed by Joe Torre, a Brooklyn native who 
was a Giants fan growing up when they were still in New York.[14] In August 
2010, Jeter passed Mel Ott for the most hits for a New York-based team. 
Later that month, Jeter went on to tie Bonds for getting 10 HRs and 10 
stolen bases for 15 years straight.[15] Shortly after that, Alex Rodriguez 
joined Bonds and Willie Mays as the only players to ever hit 600 home runs 
and steal 300 bases.[16] In April 2011, Jeter passed Bonds on the all-time 
hits list. The Yankees hosted the Giants for the first time at the new 
Yankee Stadium in September 2013. Alex Rodriguez became the all-time grand 
slam leader when he hit his career 24th against the Giants on September 
20, 2013. Two days later, the Yankees honored Mariano Rivera for his career 
and retired his number. Metal band Metallica played their famous song Enter 
Sandman as part of the ceremony due to Rivera using it as his entrance 
song throughout his career. Dave Righetti, who previously held the Yankees 
all-time saves record prior to Rivera, and other former Yankees on the 
Giants coaching staff presented Rivera with an electric guitar designed 
by Metallica with the Yankees logo and Giants logo surrounding Rivera's 
#42 and signed by Willie Mays. Prior to the series, long time Yankees legend 
Andy Pettitte announced he would retire after the season. Pettitte started 
the game for the Yankees and threw several innings of perfect baseball, 
but it would not be enough as the Giants would deflate the Yankees festivities 
of the day by going on to win the game 2-1. The Yankees most recent championship 
was a victory during the 2009 World Series. This was the team's first and, 
to date, only championship in their new stadium. The following year, the 
Giants made a historic run to win their first World Series in San Francisco 
led by Rookie of the Year catcher Buster Posey. Posey and the Giants would 
win again in the 2012 World Series and the 2014 World Series. Derek Jeter's 
initial impact and multiple world championships early on in his career 
drew comparisons of him to Buster Posey.[17][18] The most recent series 
between the Giants and Yankees occurred the weekend of July 22–24, 2016 
