Giants Stadium was a stadium located in East Rutherford, New Jersey, in 
the Meadowlands Sports Complex. The venue was open from 1976 to 2010, and 
primarily hosted sporting events and concerts in its history. The maximum 
seating capacity was 80,242.[3] The structure itself was 756 feet (230 m) 
long, 592 feet (180 m) wide and 144 feet (44 m) high from service level 
to the top of the seating bowl and 178 feet (54 m) high to the top of the 
south tower. The volume of the stadium was 64,500,000 cubic feet (1,830,000 m3). 
13,500 tons of structural steel were used in the building process and 29,200 
tons of concrete were poured.[4] It was owned and operated by the New Jersey 
Sports and Exposition Authority (NJSEA). In the early 1970s the New York 
Giants, who at the time were sharing Yankee Stadium with the New York Yankees 
baseball team, began looking for a home of their own. The Giants struck 
a deal with the fledgling New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority in 
1971 and ground broke on the construction of the new facility in 1972. 
The 1972 season was the Giants' last full season in Yankee Stadium, as 
the ballpark was closed for a massive reconstruction following the end 
of the Yankees' season. Since their new stadium would take a significant 
amount of time to finish, and they could not use their home facility due 
to the construction, the Giants moved out of state and played in New Haven, 
Connecticut at the Yale Bowl early in the 1973 season. After spending two 
years in New Haven, the Giants would return to New York for one final season 
in 1975 and shared Shea Stadium in Flushing, Queens with the Yankees, New 
York Mets, and New York Jets. The Giants finally moved into their new home 
on October 10, 1976. Eight years after Giants Stadium opened, it gained 
a second major tenant. The Jets' lease at Shea Stadium had expired at the 
end of the 1983 season and team owner Leon Hess was having trouble negotiating 
terms of a new lease to stay in Queens. The city of New York was unwilling 
to agree to his terms and Hess decided to move the Jets to the Meadowlands 
permanently (the team previously played a regular season game there in 
1977). Their first game in Giants Stadium was on September 6, 1984. With 
the Jets now playing at the stadium, the grounds crew needed to find a 
way to set their games apart from Giants games and make them more inviting 
for their fans and eventually came up with a series of green and white 
banners and coverings that were hung over the field-level blue walls that 
circled the stadium and (later) the four entrance gates outside the stadium. 
The sharing of the stadium by both the Giants and Jets enabled it to break 
a record that had long been held by Chicago's Wrigley Field. Entering the 
2003 season, its 28th, Giants Stadium had played host to 364 NFL games, 
second only to the 365 played at Wrigley by the Chicago Bears in their 
50 seasons there. The Giants' season opening game with the St. Louis Rams 
tied the record, and the following week the Jets' home opener against the 
Miami Dolphins broke it. Giants Stadium was closed following the 2009 NFL 
season following the construction of what is now MetLife Stadium in the 
surrounding parking lot. The stadium's final event was the January 3, 2010 
game featuring the Jets hosting the Cincinnati Bengals on Sunday Night 
Football. A month after the game, demolition of the structure began and 
was completed on August 10, 2010. Giants Stadium was the first major league 
sporting venue in New Jersey (though the Brooklyn Dodgers had played seven 
home games at Roosevelt Stadium in Jersey City in 1956 & 1957), and its 
success, along with that of the Giants in the 1980s was a major impetus 
behind increased pride and enthusiasm among New Jersey residents.[citation 
needed] Giants Stadium opened on October 10, 1976, as 76,042 fans witnessed 
a loss by the Giants to the Dallas Cowboys. The Giants had played their 
first four games on the road that season. College football made its debut 
at Giants Stadium on October 23, 1976, with Rutgers University defeating 
Columbia 47–0 and extending their winning streak to 14 games.[5] The New 
York Giants played their season-opening home game in the stadium on September 
18 of the 1977 season (a 20–17 win over the Washington Redskins).[6] Other 
professional football teams that have called Giants Stadium home over the 
years include the New Jersey Generals of the USFL; the New York/New Jersey 
Knights of the World League of American Football; the New York/New Jersey 
Hitmen of the XFL and the New York Sentinels (who played one game at the 
stadium in the United Football League's inaugural season). The 1985 USFL 
championship game which turned out to be the last USFL game played was 
held at Giants Stadium. In the second week of the 2005 season, the New 
Orleans Saints used the stadium for a "home" game against the Giants because 
of extensive damage to the Louisiana Superdome after Hurricane Katrina. 
One end zone was painted in Saints colors, Saints banners were hung on 
the walls around the sidelines, and the Saints wore their home jerseys. 
The game was rescheduled to a Monday night with a special start time of 
7:30 PM EDT, preceding the other scheduled game on Monday Night Football.[7] 
The Giants were normally not visitors at Giants Stadium unless they were 
playing the Jets. The stadium hosted college football games, including 
the Garden State Bowl from 1978–1981; the Kickoff Classic from 1983 to 
2002; the New York Urban League Classic since 1981; a number of Rutgers 
homes games (including all their home games during the 1993 season); several 
Notre Dame–Navy and Notre Dame–Army games; and the Army–Navy Game on three 
occasions, most recently in 2002. Syracuse also played two home games at 
Giants Stadium during the 1979 season, against West Virginia and Penn State, 
while the Carrier Dome was under construction. Columbia also played some 
home games at Giants Stadium in 1983, due to construction at its home stadium. 
Temple, needing a home field due to a schedule conflict with Veterans Stadium 
in Philadelphia, used Giants Stadium as their home field versus Penn State 
in September 1996. Princeton also played one home game at Giants Stadium 
(against Yale) during the construction of Princeton's new stadium in 1997. 
The New York Cosmos of the North American Soccer League moved to Giants 
Stadium for the 1977 season and remained until the league folded in 1985. 
The NASL championship game Soccer Bowl '78 and Soccer Bowl '79 were held 
at Giants Stadium. Seven games of the 1994 FIFA World Cup soccer tournament 
were held at Giants Stadium (including the Italy v Bulgaria semi-final), 
along with several games of the 1999 Women's World Cup. In 2003, the SuperCoppa 
Italiana, an annual match pitting the winners of Serie A (Italy's top division) 
and the Coppa Italia (Italian Cup), was held in Giants Stadium instead 
of in Italy because both clubs involved (Juventus F.C. and A.C. Milan) 
were touring the United States late in the summer, when the event is normally 
scheduled. In 2005, the stadium played host to several matches in the CONCACAF 
Gold Cup, including the final, which saw the USA defeat Panama, 3–1 in 
a penalty shootout after the sides played to a scoreless draw. It again 
held the final 4 years later for the CONCACAF Gold Cup which saw Mexico 
defeat the USA 5–0. It has seen many European soccer tours in recent years, 
hosting games involving such major soccer clubs as Manchester United, Celtic, 
Chelsea, Liverpool, Barcelona and Rangers. It also hosted England's 3–2 
victory over Colombia on May 31, 2005.[8] The New York Red Bulls (formerly 
the New York/New Jersey MetroStars) of Major League Soccer played at the 
stadium for their first 14 seasons. They moved to the soccer-specific Red 
Bull Arena in nearby Harrison, New Jersey in 2010. Giants Stadium hosted 
the first two Major League Soccer All-Star Game's ever played. The games 
were played in East vs. West format. The 1996 game was the first game of 
a doubleheader. That second game was between Brazilian soccer team and 
a team of FIFA All-Stars 1996: 1997: United States won the 2000 Nike U.S. 
Cup in Game 1 of the doubleheader Colombia, a CONMEBOL member, were invited 
to compete in the CONCACAF tournament, along with South Africa. Only four 
games in Group C were played at Giants Stadium. The second largest crowd 
to ever attend an event at Giants Stadium was 82,948, as Pope John Paul 
II celebrated Mass during a rainstorm on October 5, 1995. The record was 
broken on September 24, 2009 with an attendance of 84,472 at the U2 concert. 
The stadium played host to Amnesty International's final A Conspiracy of 
Hope Benefit Concert on June 15, 1986. The show was a sold-out, all-day 
event, running from noon until 11 p.m. and broadcast on MTV. The show was 
headlined by U2 and Sting and also featured Bryan Adams, Peter Gabriel, 
Joan Baez, The Neville Brothers and The Police. Additional artists that 
performed include John Eddie, with Max Weinberg, Third World, The Hooters, 
Peter, Paul and Mary, Steven van Zandt, with Bob Geldof, Stanley Jordan, 
Joan Armatrading, Jackson Browne, Rubén Blades, with Fela Kuti and Carlos 
Santana, Yoko Ono, Howard Jones, Miles Davis and Joni Mitchell. Spoken 
introductions were made by Billy Graham, Bill Bradley, Daryl Hannah, Robert 
De Niro, Christopher Reeve, Michael J. Fox and Muhammad Ali. Pete Townshend 
was scheduled to perform, but cancelled at the last minute, when his father, 
Cliff Townshend, became gravely ill, which would have been his first US 
solo appearance. This also marked The Police's final full-live performance 
together, until their 2007 Reunion Tour, 21 years later. The stadium played 
host to The Tattoo the Earth Tour on July 20, 2000. The show featured performances 
by Slipknot, Slayer, Sevendust, Sepultura, Hed PE, Mudvayne, downset., 
Hatebreed, Full Devil Jacket, Famous, Amen, U.P.O., Nothingface, PPM, Cold, 
Relative Ash, Systematic, Six Feet Under, Candiria, Lamb of God, God Forbid, 
Darkest Hour, Unearth, All That Remains, Dropkick Murphys, Sick of It All, 
Tiger Army, Converge, The Unseen, Reach the Sky, Stretch Arm Strong, Kill 
Your Idols and Nashville Pussy, including the only appearance by Metallica 
during the tour and also featured 42 tattoo artists from Australia, Austria, 
France, Germany, Malaysia, Manitoba, Spain, Switzerland and the US. The 
stadium has also played host to music festivals, including The Monsters 
of Rock Festival, Music at the Meadowlands, Ozzfest and The Bamboozle (in 
the parking lot, annually, since 2003). Dave Matthews Band played the stadium 
9 times from 1998–2001, including three nights each in 2000 and 2001. On 
June 11, 2001 (the first of three nights), the band played the song "Two 
Step", where Dave Matthews sung the improvisational lyrics "let it rain", 
where then a thunderstorm broke out. This has been called "Two Step In 
The Rain" by fans, and can be heard on The Best of What's Around Vol. 1. 
When Matthews learned of the closing of Giants Stadium, he said "I can't 
imagine I'll ever fall in love with a stadium like I did with Giants Stadium." 
Many locals say it is the home turf of Bruce Springsteen & The E Street 
Band, due to the fact that they came from Freehold, New Jersey. Several 
songs on his 1986 live album Live/1975-85 were recorded at shows at the 
stadium in August 1985. Springsteen wrote the song "Wrecking Ball" in response 
to the closing of the stadium and in 2009 performed it for the first time 
at the final five concerts at Giants Stadium.[9] It would go on to be the 
title track of his next studio album, released over two years later. The 
seating capacity over the years went as the following: Demolition work 
on Giants Stadium began at approximately 10:00 AM EST on February 4, 2010 
at the Gate B spirals, the closest point to the new stadium. The demolition 
work was expected to cost more than $10 million and took approximately 
four months to complete.[15][16] As of May 10, 2010 approximately 50% of 
the Stadium had been demolished. On May 19, 2010 at 8:30pm, demolition 
crews pulled down the press box, the highest part of the stadium. In the 
early afternoon of June 28, 2010, the last section of stadium grandstand 
came down, leaving just two later demolished upper level escalators standing. 
Much of the stadium's memorabilia was sold to a sports memorabilia company, 
such as the framed pictures from the suites, all of the building's signage 
and a good portion of the saved bowl seats. Other property was liquidated 
to other NJSEA facilities such as the IZOD Center and Monmouth Park Racetrack. 
To accommodate these varied events, Giants Stadium sported various playing 
surfaces in its history. From its opening until the end of the 1999 NFL 
season, Giants Stadium sported an AstroTurf playing surface. This surface 
was covered by Bermuda grass sod for the World Cup in 1994, identical to 
that at the Rose Bowl where the other semifinal and the finals were held 
(so that both teams in the finals would have played on identical surfaces). 
The grass was removed after the World Cup, as it would have died in the 
New Jersey winter. The MetroStars installed a grass field with interchangeable 
trays each spring that was removed prior to football season, forcing the 
team to play the remainder of its season on the AstroTurf field used by 
the football teams. (It should be noted that when the New York Cosmos called 
Giants Stadium home, they played on the stadium's artificial surface and 
never used a grass field.) The AstroTurf was replaced in 2000 by a system 
of interchangeable grass trays similar to those put in place for soccer, 
but was kept in place under the trays to aid in draining the field when 
it got wet. Over the next three years, the conditions would worsen as the 
season went on and the field quality was typically rated just as low as 
the old, hard AstroTurf had been. Giants Stadium finally scrapped the grass 
in favor of FieldTurf for the 2003 season, a surface which remained in 
place until the stadium closed. The New York Jets left Shea Stadium and 
moved to Giants Stadium in 1984 after years of suffering under onerous 
lease terms imposed at the insistence of baseball's New York Mets. When 
they moved across the Hudson, many predicted the stadium would be renamed. 
While the Jets were attracted by the stadium's larger capacity (it held 
15,000 more seats than Shea did in its football configuration), they were 
understandably displeased at the prospect of playing in a facility named 
after another team. However, under the terms of the stadium lease, changing 
the name of the stadium required the approval of the Giants, and they were 
unwilling to do so. As such, for years afterward the Jets referred to Giants 
Stadium as "The Meadowlands" whenever they played there. Thanks largely 
to the dual occupancy of Giants Stadium by two NFL teams since 1984, it 
surpassed Wrigley Field (home of the Chicago Bears for 50 seasons) as the 
venue to have hosted more NFL games than any other in league history. The 
game played between the Jets and Miami Dolphins on September 14, 2003 was 
the 366th regular season NFL game at Giants Stadium breaking Wrigley's 
regular season record.[17] Since the stadium was originally built for the 
Giants, the stadium's lower walls were blue and the seats and the stadium's 
four gates were red and blue to reflect the team colors. When the Jets 
moved in, green banners were hung over the walls and eventually over the 
outer gates of the stadium anytime the team hosted a game.[18] In addition, 
team-specific endzone decorations would be changed for Jets home games. 
This was accomplished by either painting over the Giants logos, or replacing 
the turf section of each endzone. Midfield decorations at the 50-yard line 
were typically not team-specific (in early years a Meadowlands logo, and 
later a NFL shield), which could be used for both teams' games. In mid-December, 
traditionally the stadium hosted a Saturday-Sunday NFL doubleheader, with 
the Giants playing a home game one day and the Jets playing the other. 
The night between the games was a challenge for the stadium grounds crew, 
as they only had hours to convert the stadium from one team's colors to 
the other. As per the NFL schedule, the Giants and the Jets play each other 
once every four years. In that case, there was a predetermined home team, 
and a predetermined away team. In those games, the away team gets a rare 
away game in their own home stadium. The Giants and Jets typically play 
each other every year in the third week of the NFL Preseason, and the teams 
annually rotated the home and away teams. For some years, a popular urban 
legend purported that the remains of Jimmy Hoffa, whose disappearance coincided 
with construction of the stadium, had been buried under one of the end 
zones at the field.[19] This led Sports Illustrated to suggest that this 
"takes on special meaning when a punter goes for the 'coffin corner.'"[20] 
In a similar vein, sportscaster Marv Albert once said that a team was "kicking 
towards the Hoffa end of the field." This was tested by the Discovery Channel 
