Gillette is a brand of men's safety razors and other personal care products 
including shaving supplies, owned by the multi-national corporation Procter 
& Gamble (P&G). Based in Boston, Massachusetts, United States, it was originally 
owned by The Gillette Company, a supplier of products under various brands 
until that company merged into P&G in 2005. The Gillette Company was founded 
by King C. Gillette in 1901 as a safety razor manufacturer.[1] Under the 
leadership of Colman M. Mockler Jr. as CEO from 1975–91, the company was 
the target of three takeover attempts, from Ronald Perelman and Coniston 
Partners.[2] On October 1, 2005, Procter & Gamble finalized its merger 
with the Gillette Company. The Gillette Company's assets were incorporated 
into a P&G unit known internally as "Global Gillette". In July 2007, Global 
Gillette was dissolved and incorporated into Procter & Gamble's other two 
main divisions, Procter & Gamble Beauty and Procter & Gamble Household 
Care. Gillette's brands and products were divided between the two accordingly. 
However, both the Gillette R&D center in Boston, Massachusetts as well 
as the Gillette South Boston Manufacturing Center (known as "Gillette World 
Shaving Headquarters"), still exist as functional working locations under 
the Procter & Gamble-owned Gillette brand name.[3] Gillette's subsidiaries 
Braun and Oral-B, among others, have also been retained by P&G. The first 
safety razor using the new disposable blade went on sale in 1903.[4] Gillette 
maintained a limited range of models of this new type razor until 1921 
when the original Gillette patent expired. In anticipation of the event, 
Gillette introduced a redesigned razor and offered it at a variety of prices 
in different cases and finishes, including the long running “aristocrat". 
Gillette continued to sell the original razor but instead of pricing it 
at $5, it was priced at $1, making a Gillette razor truly affordable to 
every man regardless of economic class. The 1930s saw the introduction 
of the Gillette Blue Blade (1932), name as it was dipped in blue lacquer, 
and which became one of the most recognizable blades in the world. 1934 
saw the innovation of the "Twist to Open", or TTO design, which featured 
butterfly-like doors that made blade changing much easier than it had been 
previously, wherein the razor head had to be detached from the handle. 
Razor handles continued to advance to allow consumer to achieve a closer 
shave. 1947 saw the introduction of the new "Super Speed" model, also a 
TTO design. This was updated in 1955, with different versions being produced 
to shave more closely—the degree of closeness being marked by the color 
of the handle tip. In 1956, the first "adjustable" razor was produced. 
This allowed for an adjustment of the blade to increase the closeness of 
the shave. The model, in various versions, remained in production until 
1986. The Super Speed razor was again redesigned in 1966 and given a black 
resin coated metal handle. It remained in production until 1988. A companion 
model, "The Knack", with a longer plastic handle, was produced from 1966 
to 1976. In Europe, the Knack was sold as "Slim Twist" and "G2000" from 
1978 to 1988, a later version known as "G1000" was made in England and 
available until 1998. A modern version of the Tech, with a plastic thin 
handle, is still produced and sold in several countries under the names 
7 O'clock, Gillette, Nacet, Minora, Rubie and Economica. The desire to 
release ever more expensive products, each claiming to be the best ever, 
has led Gillette to make disputed claims for its products. In 2005, an 
injunction was brought by rival Wilkinson Sword which was granted by the 
Connecticut District Court which determined that Gillette's claims were 
both "unsubstantiated and inaccurate" and that the product demonstrations 
in Gillette's advertising were "greatly exaggerated" and "literally false". 
While advertising in the United States had to be rewritten, the court's 
ruling does not apply in other countries.[9] Procter & Gamble (P&G) shaving 
products have been under investigation by the UK Office of Fair Trading 
as part of an inquiry into alleged collusion between manufacturers and 
retailers in setting prices. According to the Daily Mail newspaper, an 
industry insider claimed that the Fusion range of blades cost only £0.05 
each to manufacture, yet sold for up to £2.43: a mark-up price of more 
than 4,750%.[10] Gillette was fined by Autorité de la concurrence in France 
in 2016 for price-fixing on personal hygiene products.[11] In 1999, Gillette, 
as a company, was worth US$43 billion, and it was estimated that the brand 
value of Gillette was worth US$16 billion. This equated to 37% of the company's 
value, which was the same as DaimlerChrysler, one of the world's largest 
car manufacturers at the time.[12] Gillette has a long history of promotions 
for its products, especially towards young men. Current promotions include 
sponsorship of sports events such as Major League Baseball (since the 1940s, 
when it was the only sponsor for World Series television broadcasts) and 
the England national rugby league team, along with the Rugby League Four 
Nations. Gillette ships a razor to males in the United States around the 
time of their 18th birthday; as of 2010 Gillette has been sending the Fusion 
ProGlide. Athletes such as Roger Federer, Tiger Woods, Shoaib Malik, Derek 
Jeter, Thierry Henry, Kenan Sofuoglu, Park Ji-Sung, Rahul Dravid, and Michael 
Clarke are sponsored by the company.[13] There were calls to boycott Gillette 
products given their association with Thierry Henry, after a handball by 
Henry went undetected by referees and allowed France to knock Ireland out 
of qualifying for the 2010 FIFA World Cup. Marketing experts have highlighted 
"the curse of Gillette", given the mishaps that happen to sports stars 
associated with the brand.[14] Until the late 1980s, Gillette Canada's 
headquarters were in the Montreal suburb of Mont-Royal, Quebec until they 
moved west to another Montreal suburb in Kirkland. The Kirkland offices 
were closed in 1999 and Gillette Canada moved to Mississauga, Ontario, 
a Toronto suburb following the Gillette acquisition of Duracell. The Mississauga 
offices were closed in 2005-06 after Procter & Gamble acquired Gillette, 
and Gillette's Canadian headquarters are located in downtown Toronto with 
