The Gillette Cavalcade of Sports is an American radio-turned-television 
program that ran from 1942 to 1960. The program included broadcasts of 
a variety of sports, although it is primarily remembered by many[clarification 
needed] for its focus on boxing matches. The Cavalcade of Sports officially 
began on radio in 1942 as the Gillette Company grouped various existing 
sports sponsorships under one banner. The sponsorships had begun three 
years earlier, according to an article on the Gillette Company in Vol. 
68 of the International Directory of Company Histories. In 1939, Gillette 
president Joseph Spang purchased the sponsorship rights to the World Series 
on behalf of Gillette for $100,000. A special promotion of Gillette razors 
and blueblades sold four times better than company estimates, resulting 
in the company seeking out additional sponsorships for sporting events. 
The Gillette stable of radio sports programs spanned several different 
networks (including the NBC Red Network, CBS Radio Network and the Mutual 
Broadcasting System) and grew to include not only ongoing sponsorship deals 
with Major League Baseball for the World Series and All-Star Game, but 
the annual Kentucky Derby horse race and the Cotton Bowl Classic and Orange 
Bowl in college football. In his book about Gillette's history Cutting 
Edge, author Gordon McKibben wrote, "most males in the 1940s and 1950s 
did not have to be told that the Cavalcade of Sports meant Gillette was 
sponsoring another ball game or horse race". The diversified field of sporting 
events continued onto television, reportedly including at least two golfing 
tournaments as well as college football's Blue–Gray Classic and (beginning 
in 1958) the Rose Bowl game. As late as 1988, the Cavalcade of Sports banner 
was used in connection with Gillette's sponsorship of the NHL's Stanley 
Cup Playoffs. Internationally, the Gillette World Sports program continues 
the concept to the present day in many international regions from Ireland 
to Africa to Asia. With all of this, however, the Cavalcade of Sports was 
best known for its Friday night boxing broadcasts that aired on NBC from 
1946 to 1960, and (after NBC decided against featuring boxing due to sensitivity 
over criminal allegations in the sport) then for several more years on 
ABC. Its earlier iteration, Cavalcade of Sports, likewise a boxing show, 
ran on NBC's New York City station WNBT (channel 4, now WNBC) intermittently 
beginning in 1943 and was picked up by the NBC television network three 
years later. The twice-weekly 1946 shows began on Monday, November 8 at 
9:00 p.m. and Friday, November 12 at 9:30 p.m. Eastern Time. Both were 
open-ended programs – as the station signed off the air after the last 
bout ended (in the early days of television, most stations did not have 
late-night local newscasts). St. Nicholas Arena in New York City was the 
site of the earliest bouts and continued to host the Monday night fights 
until that program's cancellation in May 1949. The Friday night program, 
broadcast from Madison Square Garden lasted until June 24, 1960, a 14-year 
period which is, by far, the longest continuous run of any boxing program 
in television history. The Gillette sponsorship began at the start of the 
first full television programming season, 1948-49. On September 4, the 
program was retitled The Gillette Cavalcade of Sports, a name that remained 
until the end of its run. Every great boxer of the time – including among 
others Rocky Marciano, Sugar Ray Robinson, Archie Moore, Rocky Graziano, 
Willie Pep – appeared on one or more of its broadcasts. In the early years 
of television, there was a saturation of boxing programs, as many as six 
prime-time network programs in one week, not even counting the myriad local 
shows. With so much boxing airing simultaneously, all weight divisions 
had a chance at stardom, not just heavyweight contenders. Bob Haymes (using 
the stage name Bob Stanton) was the program's original announcer; he was 
joined by Ray Forrest in 1948. Jimmy Powers took over the role in 1949 
and remained NBC's main boxing announcer until the network ceased carrying 
prime time boxing matches in 1960. The show's theme music was the "Look 
Sharp/Be Sharp March" by Mahlon Merrick, an upbeat tune that was recorded, 
published (and sheet music printed) sometime between 1953 and 1956. It 
received quite a bit of airplay on U.S. radio programs, and was used in 
the repertoire of many high school and college bands of the period. There 
is a 1954 rendition of the song by the Boston Pops under Arthur Fiedler 
on YouTube. The "March" was used in the 1980 film Raging Bull during a 
scene in which the Robert De Niro character Jake LaMotta unveils his new 
nightclub. Coleco's Head-to-Head Boxing handheld video game, released in 
1981, played the most identifiable eight-note part of the tune when turned 
on and the first three notes of that at the start of each round. The music 
is also used in the Punch-Out!! series of video games published by Nintendo, 
and the 1993 Argentine film Gatica, el mono. The Gillette Cavalcade of 
Sports won an Emmy Award for Best Sports Program in 1955. It also received 
an Emmy nomination for Best Sports or News Program in 1954.[1] According 
to Nielsen, the program finished at #6 for the 1950-51 season; it slide 
to #19 in 1951-52 and then to #24 in 1952-53 before rebounding somewhat 
to #18 in 1953-54. No other boxing series has ever ranked in the Nielsen 
top 10 in its season ratings.[2] In the late 1940s when, the Cavalcade 
was aired through NBC Red Network extended their Spanish programming activities 
to Latin American countries, where it was known as the Cabalgata Deportiva 
Gillette. Its schedule included the MLB Game of the Week aired on Saturday 
afternoons, the MLB All-Star Game in the midseason and the fall World Series.[3] 
On there, shared duties Spanish-language broadcasters such as Pancho Pepe 
Cróquer, Buck Canel, and Felo Ramírez. During the opening presentation, 
Canel habitually introduced Cróquer as La Voz Deportiva de América. In 
addition, the Cavalcade broadcast the bouts of every great fighter of the 
time, including Rocky Marciano, Archie Moore, Willie Pep, Sugar Ray Robinson, 
Sandy Saddler and Jersey Joe Walcott,[4] whose fights were accurately and 
succinctly described by Cróquer on its Friday nights broadcasts from Madison 
Square Garden. He is particularly remembered for his emotional description 
on the second of four matches held between Pep and Saddler, which was aired 
in February 1949.[5] The imitatively-titled, but otherwise unrelated, series 
Cavalcade of Sport aired on ITV in the United Kingdom in 1956, early in 
