Gilmore Field was a former minor league baseball park in Los Angeles, California, 
that served as home to the Hollywood Stars of the Pacific Coast League 
from 1939–57 when they, along with their intra-city rivals, the Los Angeles 
Angels, were displaced by the transplanted Brooklyn Dodgers of the National 
League. Gilmore Field opened on May 2, 1939 and was the home of the Hollywood 
Stars of the Pacific Coast League until September 5, 1957. The stadium 
had a seating capacity of 12,987 people. The ballpark was located on the 
south side of Beverly Boulevard between Genesee Avenue and The Grove Drive, 
just east of where CBS Television City is currently located. A couple hundred 
meters to the west was Gilmore Stadium, an oval-shaped venue built several 
years earlier, which was used for football games and midget auto racing. 
To the east was the famous Pan-Pacific Auditorium. Both facilities were 
built by Earl Gilmore, son of Arthur F. Gilmore and president of A. F. 
Gilmore Oil, a California-based petroleum company which was developed after 
Arthur struck oil on the family property.[1] The area was rich in petroleum, 
which was the source of the "tar" in the nearby La Brea Tar Pits. The field 
had intimate quarters from the spectator standpoint – first and third bases 
were 7.2 meters (24 feet) from the first row of seats. Home plate was 10.2 
meters (34 feet) from the stands.[2] The outfield gave the pitchers more 
of a break with foul lines 101 meters (335 feet) long, power alleys about 
116 meters (385 feet), and 123 meters (407 feet) to center field. (Ritter, 
p. 75) The power alleys were thus 12 meters (40 feet) deeper than in the 
cross-town counterpart, Wrigley Field. In 1938 Herbert Fleishaker, owner 
of the Mission Reds moved his team to Los Angeles, and took the name of 
the Hollywood Stars after the city's previous PCL franchise. After but 
one season, the team was sold to new owners, among them Bob Cobb of Brown 
Derby Restaurant fame and the inventor of the California Cobb Salad. In 
their salad days, as it were, the Stars attracted glamorous actors and 
other celebrities or anyone else who wanted to be "seen", much as Dodger 
Stadium would later. One of the L.A. Angels players, Chuck Connors, made 
a successful move from one side of the box seat railing to the other, becoming 
the star in "The Rifleman", a popular 1950's TV show. The Stars would play 
at Gilmore Field until 1957. In 1948, Gilmore Field became the spring training 
location for the Pittsburgh Pirates. Although L.A.'s Wrigley Field seemed 
to get the lion's share of Hollywood screen time, Gilmore Field also had 
its moments on celluloid. It was featured in a 1949 movie called The Stratton 
Story, starring James Stewart and June Allyson, the true story of a promising 
pitcher (Monty Stratton) whose career was curtailed due to a hunting accident 
that left him with an artificial leg. Stratton's major league baseball 
career was over, but he made a comeback at the minor league level. The 
scenes at the end of the movie were set elsewhere, but were filmed at Gilmore 
Field. The layout of the outfield, and especially the exceptionally high 
left and right field corners, help to identify it. Gilmore Field was also 
seen in 711 Ocean Drive (1950). The ballpark site was abandoned after 1957. 
Gilmore Field was razed in 1958, and much of the site is now occupied by 
a parking lot at CBS Television City, near the Farmers Market. In September 
1997, the Pacific Coast League Historical Society, CBS, and the A.F. Gilmore 
Company dedicated a bronze plaque in commemoration of Gilmore Field on 
a wall outside CBS Studio 46. "The Ferris Wheel", one of the episodes of 
"Rescue 8", a syndicated United States television series broadcast in September 
1958, was filmed at the demolition of Gilmore Field and includes many views 
of the stadium as it was being razed. Coordinates: 34°4′31″N 118°21′36″W﻿ 
