Glendale is a middle class neighborhood in the west-central portion of 
the New York City borough of Queens.[1] Glendale is bordered to the north 
by a section of the Montauk Branch of the Long Island Rail Road (LIRR) 
in the western portion (Lower and Middle Glendale),[1] and by Cooper and 
Metropolitan Avenues in the eastern portion (Upper Glendale).[1] To the 
east, the border is the Rockaway Beach Branch of the LIRR, just east of 
Woodhaven Boulevard, and Forest Park, from south of Union Turnpike. Forest 
Park, along with a number of contiguous cemeteries, through which the borough 
line with Brooklyn runs, creates the southern border. Glendale's borders 
are completed in the southwest and west (from Cooper and Wyckoff Avenues) 
by the Bay Ridge Branch of the LIRR, and in the northwest by Fresh Pond 
Road and the elevated BMT Myrtle Avenue Line, which, due to its private 
right of way, creates five dead-end streets north of 68th Avenue. Because 
Cooper Avenue runs slightly in a diagonal direction, and since Glendale 
is somewhat rectangular-shaped, it is part of Glendale's borders at opposite 
corners of the neighborhood. Originally named Fresh Ponds, this was a swampy 
area of land with fresh water pools. It was part of 74,000 acres (30,000 ha) 
of land collectively called Newtown, chartered by the Dutch West India 
Company in 1642. Fresh Ponds became a thriving German farming community 
in the 19th century.[2][3] In 1847, the State Rural Cemeteries Act was 
passed in New York, which put an end to the establishment of any new cemeteries 
in Manhattan. Cemetery owners were encouraged to build in Brooklyn and 
Queens. Glendale quickly became almost encircled by cemeteries being located 
in what is called the "Cemetery Belt".[2][4] In 1860, developer George 
C. Schott was given a large amount of land in Fresh Ponds as repayment 
for a debt. Schott renamed Fresh Ponds after his native Glendale, Ohio. 
Nine years later, John C. Schooley, a real estate agent, bought a substantial 
amount of property and also called it Glendale. Schooley laid out streets 
and divided his property into 469 lots, measuring 25 by 100 feet (7.6 m 
× 30.5 m), which he then sold off for $300 each.[1][2] In 1869, a railroad 
stop at 73rd Street (then named Wyckoff Avenue) was opened by the South 
Side Railroad, which was sold in 1874 to the North Side Railroad, which 
then was merged into the Long Island Rail Road (LIRR) in 1876, becoming 
part of the Montauk Branch. In 1927, the station burned down and was never 
replaced.[2] Between the 1880s and World War I, Glendale was renowned for 
having many sources of entertainment. It had a bowling alley at Myrtle 
Avenue and 73rd Street; Cooney Herman’s Saloon; Liberty Park; Louis Hellen’s 
Saloon and picnic grove at Cooper Avenue and 73rd Street; and a trolley 
along Union Turnpike that ran to Schutzen Park.[2] Development began along 
Myrtle Avenue, Glendale's main thoroughfare, as many family-run stores 
began opening and steam powered trolleys were introduced on "The Avenue" 
in 1891. After World War I, Glendale's economic base shifted from farming 
to textiles and breweries. The largest employer was the Atlas Terminal, 
a vast industrial park, consisting of 16 factories. Because of the skilled 
work force living in the area and the many small machine shops located 
here, Glendale played a big part in the war effort during World War II 
and, especially in the Manhattan Project, which produced the first atomic 
bombs. During World War II, most of the aircraft and military equipment 
made on Long Island was shipped by rail through this area.[2] Meanwhile, 
new housing was being developed in the area as well; by 1937, the neighborhood's 
sole extant farm was being developed as housing.[2] Between 1933 and 1936, 
the controversial Interborough (now Jackie Robinson) Parkway, designed 
by Robert Moses, was built through Glendale, displacing hundreds of bodies 
buried in the Cypress Hills Cemetery. The parkway, strongly opposed by 
residents of neighborhoods surrounding Forest Park, displaced Riebling’s 
Greater New York Park and Casino, and caused the Forest Park Golf Course 
to need to be redesigned.[2] In 1998, service to the Glendale LIRR station 
was discontinued, and in 2012, the last passenger service through the area 
was discontinued. However, freight trains still operate, although in recent 
years, controversy over trains transporting radioactive waste through the 
community has arisen. All goods shipped by rail with a destination on Long 
Island (Brooklyn, Queens and Nassau and Suffolk counties), must come through 
the Fresh Pond/Fremont Yards, located in Glendale, which is the crossroads 
of the LIRR Montauk Branch, the Bay Ridge Branch (which serves the docks 
and float barges in Sunset Park, Brooklyn), the Bushwick Branch and the 
New York Connecting Railroad, which connects them all to the rest of the 
country by traveling north to Selkirk, New York, and across the Hudson 
River to New Jersey and west. The biggest product currently shipped from 
here is municipal waste and construction and demolition debris.[2] Atlas 
Terminal was demolished in 2004 and replaced by a massive shopping center 
called The Shops at Atlas Park, which opened in April 2006.[2][3] While 
having always been part of Queens, until 1979, Glendale and neighboring 
Ridgewood were served by the Brooklyn post office and its 11227 ZIP Code 
in Bushwick. This ended after the 1977 blackout, which was accompanied 
by riots and looting in Bushwick. Ridgewood and Glendale disassociated 
themselves from Bushwick in 1979. Since then, with the help of then-Congresswoman 
Geraldine Ferraro, the two areas were granted a Queens ZIP Code, 11385. 
However, in 2007, there was a movement[5] by Glendale residents to obtain 
their own ZIP code since sharing a zip code with Ridgewood has caused many 
problems due to auto-fill features programmed into most computer databases. 
As a result, most Glendale residents receive mail addressed "Ridgewood" 
and have difficulties when arranging deliveries or hiring plumbers, electricians 
or contractors. The incorrect, misleading Ridgewood address causes many 
of them to go to the wrong location. This is because identically numbered 
streets in Queens are often broken into separate segments by barriers like 
railroad tracks, highways and cemeteries. In 2012, the quest to obtain 
a unique ZIP code for Glendale (the unused 11384 has been suggested) was 
again brought to the forefront by Congressman Bob Turner (NY-09) and Assemblyman 
Mike Miller (D-38).[6] This request was again denied by the USPS although 
the postal service headquarters did offer a compromise. The USPS modified 
its software to include "Glendale" as a preferred community name for the 
identified area. As of 2014[update], this software modification by the 
USPS has not yet been updated in the City Map web site at NYC.gov, the 
city's official website, which still displays Queens community names based 
solely on names associated with ZIP codes. As a result, addresses several 
miles away from Ridgewood, such as 80-00 Cooper Avenue (The Shops at Atlas 
Park at 80th Street), 72-25 Woodhaven Boulevard (a Trader Joe's, Staples, 
and Michael's location at Metropolitan Avenue) and 75-11 Woodhaven Boulevard 
(a Home Depot location behind 72-25 Woodhaven Boulevard) are listed by 
City Map as being in Ridgewood despite being located in Glendale, in Rego 
Park, or in Forest Hills. Traditionally, Glendale was home to a large and 
active community of German immigrants. While this group is still heavily 
represented in the neighborhood, most of the local businesses have become 
more Americanized over the generations. Most contemporary residents of 
Glendale are of German, Irish, and Italian descent. Like in nearby Ridgewood, 
Maspeth, and Middle Village, an influx of Eastern Europeans and Hispanics 
moved into Glendale starting in the late 20th century. Glendale, a part 
of Queens Community Board 5,[7] is characterized as an upper-middle-class 
and middle-class residential community, with other upper and middle-class 
neighborhoods directly surrounding it such as Forest Hills, Ridgewood, 
Woodhaven, Middle Village, and Kew Gardens.[8] Because of its relative 
isolation from the New York City Subway system, its abundance of trees, 
proximity to Forest Park, its bordering by over a dozen cemeteries, and 
slightly cooler microclimate, Glendale has a bucolic, sleepy quality unlike 
nearby Ridgewood. Compared to most other Queens neighborhoods, Glendale 
is long and narrow since it is essentially sandwiched by cemeteries and 
Forest Park. As a result, it is considered to have three areas: from east 
to west, they are Upper Glendale, Middle Glendale, and Lower Glendale. 
Each area has its own unique attributes. The easternmost portion near the 
Shops at Atlas Park is known as Upper Glendale and in general has more 
expensive homes and slightly higher income levels than the rest of Glendale. 
Upper Glendale has detached single-family houses of above-average size, 
semi-detached wood frame houses and a number of brick townhomes with often 
meticulously maintained grassy front yards. Many of these were built after 
the 1920s. The middle portion of Glendale that straddles Myrtle Avenue 
is the primary business district and has a mix of semi-detached, wood frame, 
single-family houses as well as a number of multi-family dwellings and 
townhomes. The housing stock here often dates back to the late 1800s/early 
1900s and as a result, a significant number of them are made of yellow 
Kreischer brick much like similar, landmarked buildings in neighboring 
Ridgewood. The western or "lower" part of Glendale has three national historic 
districts (see Architecture below) and includes the neighborhoods of Evergreen 
(near and around Evergreen Park) and Liberty Park, which is bordered by 
Cypress Hills Street, Cooper Avenue, 61st Street and cemeteries to the 
south. Like most of Glendale, Evergreen is relatively flat. It has mostly 
late 1800s/early 1900s semi-detached, multi-family, wood frame houses and 
a significant number of townhomes made of yellow Kreischer brick again 
similar to landmarked buildings in neighboring Ridgewood. In contrast, 
Liberty Park, developed in the 1920s, is built on the north slope of a 
hill and is dominated by detached single-family, wood-frame houses with 
private driveways and backyards. In the lower portion of Glendale, just 
east of the Bushwick branch of the LIRR, three national historic districts 
were listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1983.[9] These 
are the 75th Avenue-61st Street Historic District, Central Avenue Historic 
District and Cooper Avenue Row Historic District. Each of these districts 
contains significant numbers of early 20th century buildings made with 
the distinctive yellow Kreischer brick. Myrtle Avenue was greatly enjoyed 
for its parks, often frequented by picnickers. With the steam trolley running 
along the Avenue, several investors bought a total of 500 acres (2 km²) 
of land in the eastern end of Glendale and opened a number of parks and 
beer gardens. In the 1890s, on the north side of Myrtle Avenue from what 
is now 83rd Street to Woodhaven Boulevard, Schmidt's Woods, Glendale Schuetzen 
Park, Greater New York Park and Casino, and Tivoli Park—all picnic parks—opened. 
On the south side of Myrtle Avenue from 88th Place to Woodhaven Boulevard 
were El Dorado Park, Emerald Park and Florida Park. These parks drew large 
crowds, not only from Glendale but from Eastern Brooklyn, where there were 
no proper parks at the time. One of the sections of Glendale, now known 
as "Liberty Park", is located on the site of a former beer garden of the 
same name. Another section of Glendale, adjacent to the LIRR Fresh Pond/Fremont 
Yards, was named after the Ivanhoe Park beer garden at that location. "Doddies", 
located at Cooper Avenue and 74th Street, was the last of the beer gardens, 
surviving into the late 1960s with an outdoor picnic area and the first 
neighborhood bar to have a television in the late 1940s or early 1950s. 
Redeemer Lutheran School occupies the site of "Hoffman Hall", a beer garden 
and dance hall. In the mid-1920s, the parks closed because they were unable 
to financially weather Prohibition. From August 9, 1895 until 1898, one 
hundred and twenty-four parcels were bought for the new 538-acre (218 ha) 
Forest Park, which is composed of many of these former picnic parks. Since 
Brooklyn and Queens were incorporated into New York City by the time all 
of the park's land was procured, the park's name was shortened from the 
original moniker of "Brooklyn Forest Park". A bandstand built in Forest 
Park in 1898 preceded a bandshell built in 1920; for almost a century, 
George Seuffert Sr.—and later, his son, Dr. George F. Seuffert—played free 
concerts at the bandshell every weekend until the latter died in 1995. 
The bandstand is now for public use.[2] Forest Park also has a public golf 
course, as well as horse riding trails (stables are located nearby, off 
the park grounds). Forest Park Drive, which runs throughout the park, is 
closed to vehicles from Woodhaven Boulevard to Metropolitan Avenue, making 
it a popular spot for skaters. Dry Harbor Playground, at Myrtle Avenue 
and 80th Street, opened in 1934. It has swings, seesaws, a wavy slide, 
a flagpole, and a school gym. It was created when Edward Bourcier gave 
away 17 acres (6.9 ha) of his land as part of Forest Park. The playground 
also consists of an attached one-story house.[2] In 1940–1, the property 
of PS 67, as well as an adjoining lot, became the location of the Glendale 
Playground at Central Avenue and 70th Street. The playground opened in 
1942.[2] In 1949, a former Minor League Baseball field at 65th Place named 
Farmers’ Oval after the Glendale Farmers Base Ball Club team, which had 
played at the field for half a century prior, was the site of a groundbreaking 
for a new park. In 1967, the park was officially renamed the Joseph F. 
Mafera Park, memorializing the late Queens Borough president. At Mafera 
Park, roller hockey can be played on the rink there.[2] On the easternmost 
edge of Glendale, on the site between the train tracks of the Rockaway 
Beach and Montauk Branches of the LIRR where an old ice house once stood, 
is Seither Stadium, the home field of the Ridgewood, Glendale, Middle Village 
and Maspeth Little League. South of the Liberty Park section of Glendale 
(and separated by cemeteries as well as the Jackie Robinson Parkway) is 
Ridgewood Reservoir, a naturalistic part of Highland Park. The New York 
City government renovated it in 2013 by adding new period lighting and 
fences. Glendale was renowned for its many authentic German restaurants, 
namely Zum Stammtisch (The Family Table), Von Westernhagen's, Gebhardt's, 
and Hans Gasthaus. However, in the last decade all but Zum Stammtisch have 
closed doors for good. Stammtisch can be found highly regarded in most 
New York City tour guides even though it is located in an outer borough. 
Cooper's, on 88th Street just south of Cooper Avenue, was featured in the 
TV show The King of Queens; it was later taken over by new ownership and 
is now called Yer Man's Irish Pub. The oldest operating business in Glendale 
dates to the 1830s. Originally called the Woods Inn, the Woods is a two-story 
house with a bar on the first floor and apartments, which were once rooms-for-rent, 
on the second floor. It is conveniently located just half a block from 
the former LIRR train station. Since that station's closing, it is an off-the-beaten-path 
watering hole for locals. Glendale's newest additions, include Room 55 
(formerly Tazzina), and Edison Place (formerly Von Westernhagen's). Additionally, 
the Shops at Atlas Park has a number of chain and independent restaurants, 
including California Pizza Kitchen, Chili's Grill & Bar, Johnny Rockets, 
Starbucks, Manor Oktoberfest, and Shiro of Japan. It also includes a Cold 
Stone Creamery and a movie theater. Within Glendale's "cemetery belt", 
the cemeteries that surround Glendale include Cypress Hills, Lutheran All 
Faiths, Salem Fields, Mount Lebanon, Mount Carmel, New Mount Carmel, Beth 
El (New Union Field), Mount Neboh, and Union Field. Some of these cemeteries 
are the resting places of many famous people, including Jackie Robinson, 
Mae West, and Harry Houdini, at whose tomb devotees gather each year on 
Halloween to see if he can pull off the ultimate escape trick and return 
from the grave. Cypress Hills Cemetery is the site of the New York City 
Police "Arlington" and also contains the graves of Confederate soldiers 
who died in local prisons and hospitals. It also was one of the earliest 
military cemeteries and its most unusual resident is a circus elephant.[4] 
Glendale is home to eight schools: P.S. 68 Elementary, P.S. 91 Elementary, 
P.S. 113 Elementary, I.S. 119 The Glendale Intermediate School, St. John's 
Lutheran Elementary, Sacred Heart Elementary, Redeemer Lutheran Elementary, 
and St. Pancras Elementary. In 1896, Glendale's first fire department, 
the Ivanhoe Park Hose Company, a volunteer fire company, was established. 
It was funded by Henry Meyer, a wealthy businessman, who owned a cigar 
factory, a lucrative holding of stocks, and a sizable amount of land, part 
of which would become the neighborhood of Liberty Park. The fire department's 
uniforms, a hose cart and the hose were subsidized by Meyer. He also undertook 
several construction projects, such as building pumping stations, to ensure 
water would be available anywhere along the major streets (i.e., Myrtle 
Avenue and Cypress Hills Street). Later that year, the first company was 
expanded with a hook and ladder and renamed Ivanhoe Fire Hook and Ladder 
Company and two months later became Company 10 in the Newtown Fire Department. 
The neighborhood is now served by the New York City Fire Department's Engine 
Company #286 and Ladder Company #135, housed on the south side of Myrtle 
Avenue between 66th Place and 67th Street, in their original, historic 
building, erected in 1913 and by the 104th Police Precinct located on Catalpa 
Avenue at 64th Street. There are no New York City Subway stations in Glendale. 
The closest are the Fresh Pond Road station of the M train, which has entrance 
stairs from the dead-end of 62nd Street, and Halsey Street of the L train, 
both in neighboring Ridgewood.[10] Local bus routes include B13, B20, Q11, 
Q21, Q23, Q29, Q39, Q47, Q52, Q53, Q54, Q55. Express bus routes include 
the BM5, QM12, QM15, QM16, QM17, QM24, QM25.[11] The Long Island Rail Road 
had a station at Edsall Avenue and 73rd Street from 1868 until March 16, 
1998, when it was closed due to low usage. Notable current and former residents 
of Glendale include: Coordinates: 40°41′54.38″N 73°52′48.38″W﻿ / ﻿40.6984389°N 
