Glen Canyon Park is a city park in San Francisco, California. It occupies 
about 70 acres (28 ha) along a deep canyon adjacent to the Glen Park, Diamond 
Heights, and Miraloma Park neighborhoods. O’Shaughnessy Hollow is a rugged, 
undeveloped 3.6 acres (1.5 ha) tract of parkland that lies immediately 
to the west and may be considered an extension of Glen Canyon Park. The 
park and hollow offer an experience of San Francisco's diverse terrains 
as they appeared before the intense development of the region in the late 
19th and the 20th centuries. The park incorporates free-flowing Islais 
Creek and the associated riparian habitat, an extensive grassland with 
adjoining trees that supports breeding pairs of red-tailed hawks and great 
horned owls, striking rock outcrops, and arid patches covered by "coastal 
scrub" plant communities. In all, about 63 acres (25 ha) of the park and 
hollow are designated as undeveloped Natural Area. Elevations in Glen Canyon 
Park range from approximately 225 feet (69 m) above sea level at the south 
end of the park to 575 feet (175 m) above sea level at the north end and 
along the eastern rim of the canyon; the walls of the canyon are extremely 
steep, with many slopes approaching a length-to-height ratio of 1:1 (100 
percent).[2] Formal recreational facilities in Glen Canyon Park are mostly 
located at its southern end (see the aerial photograph). These facilities 
include a community recreation center, ball fields and tennis courts, playgrounds, 
and a ropes course. The park is also well used by local rock climbers, 
who consider it one of the best "bouldering" sites near San Francisco.[3] 
An additional building about halfway up the canyon near Islais Creek serves 
the Silver Tree Day Camp and the Glenridge Cooperative Nursery School.[4] 
The park is easily entered at its southeastern corner (end of Bosworth 
Street). Somewhat further north, there is a wooden stairway leading down 
into the park (the Sussex Street entrance). There are also trails leading 
into the park from the Diamond Heights Shopping Center. Of one of these, 
Joseph Stubbs has written, "It is a dramatic, sudden revelation of the 
park interior from high up, which is simply stunning. It occurs midsection 
of the park behind Diamond Heights Shopping Center and George Christopher 
Playground."[5] A branch of Islais Creek (named after the wild cherry islay[6]) 
originates in the canyon. It is the largest remaining creek in San Francisco 
with public access. The bottom of the canyon, where Islais Creek flows, 
is irregular but moderate in slope, dropping 350 feet (107 m) over a distance 
of about 1 mile (1.6 kilometer).[2] The creek is surrounded by willow thickets. 
In earlier times, the creek had an open water channel sustained by a much 
larger water flow, and was "more of a river than a creek".[7] Urban development 
has reduced the watershed of Islais Creek by as much as 80 percent.[2] 
At the southern end of the canyon, Islais Creek enters a culvert which 
carries it to its exit into San Francisco Bay.[8] The creek has a meager 
but year-round natural flow, and the water and resulting vegetation provide 
a habitat for animals, including skunks, opossums, raccoons, red-tailed 
hawks, red-shouldered hawks, great horned owls, coyotes, and the rare native 
San Francisco forktail damselfly, Ischnura gemina.[9] The scenery of Glen 
Canyon Park is also distinguished by numerous large outcrops of rock. The 
most striking of these consist of reddish, layered "Franciscan" chert. 
These outcrops have clearly visible banding (see photo) which is due to 
the different weathering of the layers. The bedrock of the canyon is made 
up of rocks of the Marin Headlands terrane, which is a large packet of 
rock that extends diagonally from the Marin Headlands (just north of the 
Golden Gate), through the Twin Peaks and Glen Canyon area, and on to the 
southeast. This terrane is from 100 to 200 million years old (i.e. the 
Cretaceous and Jurassic periods).[12][13] The bedrock of the lower slopes 
of the canyon - largely hidden under slope debris/ravine fill - is pillow 
lava or greenstone; these erupted from fissures in the deep ocean floor 
when the terrane was located hundreds of miles southwest of its present 
location.[14] The upper slopes and cliffs are of layered chert, which hardened 
into rock from the ooze of remains of countless radiolarian creatures that 
accumulated on top of the lava. The ooze was colored red by iron from hydrothermal 
springs. Both lava and chert were formed in the deep ocean near the equator, 
and were rafted northeast on the gradually-moving ocean floor toward California. 
Near shore, greywacke accumulated on the chert in some areas, including 
a small part of the southeast slope of Glen Canyon. Subduction then squeezed 
the terrane against the continent, and it eventually became part of the 
Franciscan formation that makes up much of coastal California. During subduction 
- 160 to 80 million years ago - and the subsequent uplift, the terrane 
was twisted, broken and disrupted, and the chert was deformed into the 
tight folds now visible in road cuts along O'Shaughnessy Boulevard (see 
photo).[11] The park's history commences with Adolph Sutro's purchase in 
the 1850s of 76 acres (310,000 m2) of the canyon, which he named "Gum Tree 
Ranch" after the blue gum eucalyptus trees he had planted. The first commercial 
manufacturing of dynamite in the U.S. occurred in the canyon; on March 
19, 1868, the Giant Powder Company began production at its first manufacturing 
plant, under exclusive license from Alfred Nobel to produce his new explosive 
in America. The plant was apparently located near the present recreation 
center, at the southern end of the park.[15] The factory did not last long. 
On November 26, 1869, an explosion completely destroyed the entire facility, 
turning every one of the buildings on the place, and the surrounding fencing, 
into "hundreds of pieces", according to a newspaper account.[1] Two people 
were killed, and nine injured; the plant was later rebuilt in the sand 
dunes south of Golden Gate Park. The site of the plant has been designated 
as California Historical Landmark #1002, although no marker has been placed 
on the site yet.[1][15] In 1889, the Crocker Real Estate Company bought 
the canyon to develop a neighborhood that would attract homebuyers. As 
Jeanne Alexander has written,[16] Crocker installed a mini-amusement park 
with an aviary, a mini-zoo--bears, elephants and monkeys, a bowling alley, 
and, for extra thrills, hot-air balloon rides, and an intrepid tight-rope 
walker who performed on a wire stretched across the canyon. From 1907-1922, 
Glen Canyon Park was operated as a picnic ground -- mainly for adults. 
Crocker Real Estate added tables and benches, a baseball diamond and a 
running track. It was fenced and rented to organizations for company picnics 
that often turned into boisterous drinking brawls. Neighborhood children 
had to find other places to play. Concerned residents urged the San Francisco 
Recreation Commission to acquire the property for use as a playground, 
and in 1922, the city bought the 101-acre (0.41 km2) Glen Canyon Park and 
Recreation site. O'Shaughnessy Boulevard defines the western perimeter 
of Glen Canyon Park. This street was built in 1935 using roadcuts and filled 
slopes on the canyon's steep slopes, and was named after Michael O'Shaughnessy, 
who was for many years the Chief Engineer of the City. The recreation center 
at the south end of the park was built by the Works Progress Administration 
in 1937.[7] An undeveloped, very steep area just west of O'Shaughnessy 
Boulevard was purchased by the City of San Francisco in the 1990s, and 
named O'Shaughnessy Hollow.[7] In 1958, the California State Highway Department 
proposed a plan to widen O'Shaughnessy Boulevard as part of a Crosstown 
Freeway. Some work was done at the southern end of the park, and homes 
and businesses were demolished along Bosworth Street to permit its widening.[17] 
Further work ceased following opposition by several groups;[16][18] the 
conflict over the freeway was among the earliest incidents in the Freeway 
and expressway revolts of the 1960s and 1970s. The city government of San 
Francisco mandated the development of management plans for all the "natural 
areas" under the city's control, and this process culminated in release 
of the Significant Natural Resources Areas Management Plan in February 
2006.[2] The plan favors the re-establishment of native species and species 
diversity in the city's parks. Some aspects of the plan have been controversial.[19] 
For example, the plan envisions the removal of some large, mature trees 
(often eucalpytus, which was imported from Australia) to favor smaller 
native plants. The plan also includes new restrictions on recreational 
use of the park, such as the closure of some trails and of some areas for 
rock climbing, and prohibitions against unleashed dogs. In Glen Canyon 
Park, about 20 mature eucalpytus trees were removed in 2004 as part of 
an effort to increase the diversity of species living along Islais Creek. 
The plan envisions the removal of an additional 120 trees (of the total 
of 6000 trees in the park) to further improve the creek, to increase the 
extent of the park's grasslands, and to promote forest understory plants. 
The plan also seeks to restore some open-water areas along the creek, which 
is nearly totally obscured by the willow thickets. The change in the creek 
would be established both by re-planting sections of the creek's banks 
with different plants and by the introduction of "scouring" structures. 
Glen Canyon Park used to support populations of two rare species: the "vulnerable" 
San Francisco forktailed damselfly[20] and the "endangered" Mission blue 
butterfly. The plan proposes changes in the management of the park that 
would promote self-sustaining populations of these insects. The damselfly 
population in the park was studied by John Hafernik and his colleagues 
in the 1980s prior to its local extinction; they re-introduced a population 
of these damselflies in 1996 that persisted for two seasons.[21] The damselflies 
need open water habitat, which has proven difficult to maintain. There 
has been a declining population of Mission blue butterflies at the nearly 
contiguous Twin Peaks Natural Area; while park employees logged about 150 
butterflies in the 1980s, only four were found between 2001 and 2007. A 
reintroduction was done in April 2009.[22] Reintroduction may also be possible 
in Glen Canyon Park. Here the main issue appears to be re-establishing 
the native plant "silver bush lupine", whose leaves are the larval food 
of these butterflies. A substantial fraction of Glen Canyon Park is now 
covered by non-native species including eucalyptus forest (17 acres), French 
broom (6 acres), and field mustard,[2] but no specific proposal for re-introduction 
of the lupine was included in the Management Plan. The importance of Glen 
Canyon Park to its surrounding neighborhoods is indicated by a recent community 
plan for Glen Park that contains the following statement: "The Glen Park 
community’s special character is created by the unique combination of eclectic 
building styles, pedestrian scale, the layering of green space and buildings 
climbing into the canyon, public spaces, walkable streets, a compact village, 
and proximity to transit and the canyon. Every new development project, 
whether public or private, must incorporate these features based on principles 
of good design and human scale.[17]" A section of Bosworth Street connects 
the southern entrance to Glen Canyon Park with the central commercial district 
of Glen Park that lies about a third of a mile east. This section presents 
an important opportunity for urban design because the properties along 
the north side have remained undeveloped since their acquisition by the 
City in the 1950s. The community plan proposes that this land be developed 
into a greenway and pedestrian plaza. The plan also suggests that Islais 
Creek, which runs underneath this section of Bosworth Street, be "daylighted" 
in this section. The plan was formally endorsed by the San Francisco Planning 
Commission in 2004,[23] but implementation has not been funded as of 2007. 
