Globe Life Park in Arlington is a stadium in Arlington, Texas, located 
between Dallas and Fort Worth. It is home to the American League's Texas 
Rangers, and the Texas Rangers Baseball Hall of Fame. It was constructed 
as a replacement for nearby Arlington Stadium. It was known as The Ballpark 
in Arlington until May 7, 2004, when Ameriquest bought the naming rights 
to it and renamed it Ameriquest Field in Arlington. On March 19, 2007, 
the Rangers severed their relationship with Ameriquest and announced that 
it would be renamed Rangers Ballpark in Arlington. On February 5, 2014, 
Globe Life and Accident Insurance Company bought the naming rights to it. 
Globe Life is owned by Torchmark Corporation, which is based in McKinney, 
Texas, a northern suburb of Dallas.[6] In November 2016, Votes agreed to 
build a new ballpark adjacent to where Globe Life Park currently stands. 
It will open as early as the 2020 season.[7] Funding was approved for a 
new home for the Rangers in 1991 by the City of Arlington. Construction 
began on April 2, 1992 a short distance away from Arlington Stadium, the 
stadium it would replace, and the new Ballpark in Arlington opened on April 
1, 1994 in an exhibition contest between the Rangers and the New York Mets. 
The first official game was on April 11 against the Milwaukee Brewers. 
The largest crowd to watch a Rangers baseball game was on October 30, 2010, 
when 52,419 fans watched Game 3 of the 2010 World Series against the San 
Francisco Giants. On May 20, 2016, the Rangers announced that they intend 
to move from Globe Life Park to a new ballpark for the 2021 season.[8] 
The new air conditioned stadium will feature a retractable roof,[9] which 
many argue could increase stadium revenue from those who would otherwise 
not want to sit in the heat during games as the season progresses throughout 
the hot Texas summer, in particular those that occur in the afternoon. 
Voting for the new ballpark began on November 8 (the same day as the United 
States presidential election, 2016) for residents in the city limits of 
Arlington.[10] On November 8, 2016, the ballpark was passed with a 60% 
favorable vote.[7] It will open as early as the 2020 season.[7] Regarding 
Globe Life Park's fate, it will not be torn down, like it's predecessor 
Arlington Stadium was. Instead, it will be converted into a venue for tenants 
and will include gift shops, restaurants, and offices.[11] This will be 
the team's second move to their third ballpark in Arlington since they 
began in 1972 (their first ballpark was Arlington Stadium). The stadium 
was designed by David M. Schwarz Architectural Services of Washington, 
D.C. The Rangers chose to build a retro-style ballpark, incorporating many 
features of baseball's Jewel Box parks. A roofed home run porch in right 
field is reminiscent of Tiger Stadium, while the white steel frieze that 
surrounds the upper deck was copied from the pre-1973 Yankee Stadium. The 
out-of-town scoreboard (removed in 2009 and replaced with a state-of-the-art 
videoboard) was built into the left-field wall—a nod to Fenway Park, while 
the numerous nooks and crannies in the outfield fence are a reminder of 
Ebbets Field.[12] The arched windows are a reminder of Comiskey Park. However, 
it has a few distinct features of its own. Several traditional Texas-style 
stone carvings are visible throughout it. A four-story office building 
in center field encloses it, with a white steel multilevel facade similar 
to the facade on the roof. As the stadium was built on one of the former 
Arlington Stadium parking lots, the irregular dimensions of the outfield 
were planned independently, rather than being forced by neighboring structures. 
The home plate, foul poles (replaced prior to the 2016 season), and bleachers 
were originally at Arlington Stadium. The Home Plate was inserted into 
place by Richard Greene (then Mayor of Arlington), Elzie Odom (Head of 
Arlington Home Run Committee and later Mayor of Arlington), and George 
W. Bush (former part Rangers owner, later Texas Governor and President 
of the United States). The stadium's 810-foot (250 m)-long facades are 
made of brick and Texas Sunset Red granite. Bas-relief friezes depict significant 
scenes from the history of both Texas and baseball. The calculus of seating 
arrangements represented a new economic model for the sport: a critical 
mass of high-dollar seats close to the infield boost ticket revenue. The 
stadium has three basic seating tiers: lower, club and upper deck. Two 
levels of luxury suites occupy spaces behind sliding glass doors above 
and below the club tier.[13] The stadium has a large number of obstructed-view 
seats. In some cases, the view is cut off by an overhang or underhang, 
and others are directly in front of the foul or support poles. Also, the 
design of the upper deck leaves it one of the highest in baseball. The 
view from the grandstand reserved sections in left is particularly obstructed. 
Prior to the 2012 season, the visitor bullpen was reconfigured to be parallel 
to the field after the previous visitor bullpen configuration had an excessive 
amount of heat during hot weather games. To allow construction, a few rows 
of bleacher sections were removed. Greene's Hill is a sloped section of 
turf located behind the center field fence at the home field of the ballpark. 
The Hill serves as a batter's eye, providing a contrasting background behind 
the pitchers which enables hitters to more easily see the baseball after 
the pitcher's release. It was originally designed as a picnic area for 
fans but the Rangers have never initiated this policy. It was named after 
former Arlington mayor Richard Greene in November 1997. For a couple of 
years in the 2000s, the Rangers had the "T" from the Texas Rangers logo 
mowed into the grass, but this is no longer done. In 2010, the Rangers 
started a tradition where they had four girls run around on it with giant 
Texas state flags when the Rangers scored, similar to what many football 
teams do when their teams score. The stadium contains 5,704 club seats 
and 126 luxury suites. The field is one of the most notoriously hitter-friendly 
parks in baseball, due to the high temperatures, relatively short fences, 
and the design of the stadium which has allowed the area's high winds to 
swirl and lift balls that wouldn't normally make it out. In truth, the 
park would give up even more home runs if not for the office building in 
center and the field being 22 feet (6.7 m) below street level.[15] With 
a combination of the park's design and the naturally good hitters who've 
played for the Rangers, the team has put up some rather high home run totals. 
In 1996, the Rangers hit 221 homers. They eclipsed 200 again in 1998 (201), 
1999 (230), 2001 (241), 2002 (230), 2003 (239), 2004 (227), and 2005 (260, 
four short of the all-time record of 264 by the 1997 Seattle Mariners). 
Many of the Rangers' already-skilled hitters take advantage of this, some 
even racking up multiple 30+ Home run seasons, such as Ian Kinsler, Adrián 
Beltré, and Josh Hamilton.[16] The longest home run recorded was 485 feet 
to right-center field by Rangers LF Josh Hamilton on June 27, 2010.[17] 
Dimensions[18] Despite being hailed as a wonderful venue in its infant 
years, articles in The Dallas Morning News began to suggest that the ballpark 
would have been better served by having a dome or retractable roof – much 
like Minute Maid Park, the home of the Houston Astros – due to the often 
oppressive heat that settles over Texas during baseball season, with temperatures 
on the field being in excess of 110°. Many argue that the intense heat 
is a liability in attracting players, particularly starting pitchers.[19] 
That being said, it is questionable that retractable roof technology was 
a good candidate at the time the stadium was constructed, when modern mechanical 
retractable-roof ballparks like Chase Field, Safeco Field, Minute Maid 
Park, and Miller Park would not open until several years after it. Many 
local sports writers in recent years have suggested adding a roof but the 
idea has not found any traction within the Rangers organization. The Rangers 
are planning to open a retractable roof ballpark as early as 2020.[20] 
On December 3, 2010, the Rangers announced that extensive renovations to 
the stadium would be made and ready for the 2011 season.[21] These renovations 
included: On April 11, 1994, the first game at the ballpark, Holly Minter, 
who was posing for a picture while intoxicated, fell 35 feet over a railing 
in right field, fracturing several bones and causing the team to raise 
the height of the railings.[22] On July 6, 2010, firefighter Tyler Morris, 
leaning over the rail to catch a Nelson Cruz foul ball, fell 30 feet onto 
the section below him, causing a head injury and a severely sprained ankle 
to himself and minor injuries to fans he landed on.[23] The game was stopped 
for 15 minutes while paramedics treated him.[24] On July 7, 2011, firefighter 
Shannon Stone, from Brownwood, Texas, was attending the Rangers game against 
the Oakland Athletics with his six-year-old son, Cooper, when outfielder 
Josh Hamilton threw him a ball, as he had asked.[22] Reaching for it, he 
flipped over the railing and fell 20 feet, head-first, onto the concrete 
behind the out-of-town scoreboard in left field.[22] He was conscious and 
talking as paramedics tended to him, but he died en route to the hospital.[25] 
The cause of death was identified as blunt force trauma.[26] This was the 
fourth fall in the stadium's 17 years of history.[27] A moment of silence 
was held for him prior to the next day's game, both the Rangers and Athletics 
wore black ribbons on their uniforms, and the flags at the stadium were 
flown at half-staff in memory of him.[26] The Rangers Foundation set up 
a memorial fund for Stone's family.[28] A tarp was placed over the opening 
through which Stone fell.[26] Rangers team president Nolan Ryan said the 
height of the railings exceeds the requirement of the building codes but 
said the team would do "whatever it takes" to ensure the safety of the 
fans;[29] on July 20, 2011, the Rangers announced they would raise all 
railings in the front of seating sections to 42 inches.[30] On August 10, 
2011, the team announced it would erect a statue memorializing Stone.[31] 
Cooper helped unveil the statue on April 5, 2012. It depicts him and his 
father wearing baseball caps. They are holding hands and looking at each 
other as if they were talking. The inscription on the statue reads "In 
memory of Shannon Stone and dedicated to all fans who love the game". On 
September 30, 2011, Cooper threw out the ceremonial first pitch to honor 
his father before Game 1 of the 2011 ALDS against the Tampa Bay Rays.[32][33] 
