Gloucester /ˈɡlɒstər/ is a city on Cape Ann in Essex County, Massachusetts, 
in the United States. It is part of Massachusetts' North Shore. The population 
was 28,789 at the 2010 U.S. Census.[1] An important center of the fishing 
industry and a popular summer destination, Gloucester consists of an urban 
core on the north side of the harbor and the outlying neighborhoods of 
Annisquam, Bay View, Lanesville, Folly Cove, Magnolia, Riverdale, East 
Gloucester, and West Gloucester. The boundaries of Gloucester originally 
included the town of Rockport, in an area dubbed "Sandy Bay". That village 
separated formally on February 27, 1840. In 1873, Gloucester was reincorporated 
as a city. Gloucester was founded at Cape Ann by an expedition called the 
"Dorchester Company" of men from Dorchester (in the county of Dorset, England) 
chartered by James I in 1623. It was one of the first English settlements 
in what would become the Massachusetts Bay Colony, and predates both Salem 
in 1626 and Boston in 1630. The first company of pioneers made landing 
at Half Moon Beach and settled nearby, setting up fishing stages in a field 
in what is now Stage Fort Park. This settlement's existence is proclaimed 
today by a memorial tablet, affixed to a 50-foot (15 m) boulder in that 
park. Life in this first settlement was harsh and it was short-lived. Around 
1626 the place was abandoned, and the people removed themselves to Naumkeag 
(what is now called Salem, Massachusetts), where more fertile soil for 
planting was to be found. The meetinghouse was even disassembled and relocated 
to the new place of settlement. At some point in the following years – 
though no record exists – the area was slowly resettled. The town was formally 
incorporated in 1642. It is at this time that the name "Gloucester" first 
appears on tax rolls, although in various spellings. The town took its 
name from the city of Gloucester in South-West England, perhaps from where 
many of its new occupants originated but more likely because Gloucester, 
England, was a Parliamentarian stronghold, successfully defended with the 
aid of the Earl of Essex against the King in the Siege of Gloucester of 
1643. This new permanent settlement focused on the Town Green area, an 
inlet in the marshes at a bend in the Annisquam River. This area is now 
the site of Grant Circle, a large traffic rotary at which Massachusetts 
Route 128 mingles with a major city street (Washington Street/Rt 127). 
Here the first permanent settlers built a meeting house and therefore focused 
the nexus of their settlement on the "Island" for nearly 100 years. Unlike 
other early coastal towns in New England, development in Gloucester was 
not focused around the harbor as it is today, rather it was inland that 
people settled first. This is evidenced by the placement of the Town Green 
nearly two miles from the harbor-front. The Town Green is also where the 
settlers built the first school. By Massachusetts Bay Colony Law, any town 
boasting 100 families or more had to provide a public schoolhouse. This 
requirement was met in 1698, with Thomas Riggs standing as the town's first 
schoolmaster. The White-Ellery House was erected in 1710 upon the Town 
Green. It was built at the edge of a marsh for Gloucester’s first settled 
minister, the Reverend John White (1677–1760).[2] Early industry included 
subsistence farming and logging. Because of the poor soil and rocky hills, 
Cape Ann was not well suited for farming on a large scale. Small family 
farms and livestock provided the bulk of the sustenance to the population. 
Fishing, for which the town is known today, was limited to close-to-shore, 
with families subsisting on small catches as opposed to the great bounties 
yielded in later years. The fisherman of Gloucester did not command the 
Grand Banks until the mid-18th century. Historian Christine Heyrman, examining 
the town's society between 1690 and 1750, finds that at the beginning community 
sensibility was weak in a town that was a loose agglomeration of individuals. 
Commerce and capitalism transformed the society, making it much more closely 
knit with extended families interlocking in business relationships.[3] 
Early Gloucestermen cleared great swaths of the forest of Cape Ann for 
farm and pasture land, using the timber to build structures as far away 
as Boston. The rocky moors of Gloucester remained clear for two centuries 
until the forest reclaimed the land in the 20th century. The inland part 
of the island became known as the "Commons", the "Common Village", or "Dogtown". 
Here small dwellings lay scattered amongst the boulders and swamps, along 
roads that meandered through the hills. These dwellings were at times little 
more than shanties; only one was even two stories tall. Despite their size, 
several generations of families were raised in such houses. One feature 
of the construction of these houses was that under one side of the floor 
was dug a cellar hole (for the keeping of food), supported by a foundation 
of laid-stone (without mortar). These cellar holes are still visible today 
along the trails throughout the inland part of Gloucester; they, and some 
walls, are all that remain of the village there. The town grew, and eventually 
colonists lived on the opposite side of the Annisquam River. This, in a 
time of legally mandated church attendance, was a long way to walk – or 
row – on a Sunday morning. In 1718 the settlers on the opposite shore of 
the river split off from the First Parish community at the Green and formed 
"Second Parish". While still part of the town of Gloucester, the people 
of Second, or "West", Parish now constructed their own meetinghouse and 
designated their own place of burial, both of which were in the hills near 
the marshes behind Wingaersheek Beach. The meetinghouse is gone now, but 
deep in the woods on the Second Parish Road, Old Thompson road, one can 
still find the stone foundation and memorial alter, as well as scattered 
stones of the abandoned burial ground. Other parts of town later followed 
suit. Third Parish, in northern Gloucester, was founded in 1728. Fourth 
Parish split off from First Parish in 1742. Finally, in 1754, the people 
of Sandy Bay (what would later be called Rockport) split off from First 
Parish to found Fifth Parish. The Sandy Bay church founding was the last 
religious re-ordering of the colonial period. All of these congregations 
still exist in some form, with the exception of Fourth Parish, the site 
of whose meeting house is now a highway. At one time, there was a thriving 
granite industry in Gloucester. Gloucester is located at 42°37′26″N 70°40′32″W﻿ 
/ ﻿42.62389°N 70.67556°W﻿ / 42.62389; -70.67556 (42.624015, −70.675521).[4] 
According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area 
of 41.5 square miles (107.5 km2), of which 26.2 square miles (67.8 km2) 
is land and 15.3 square miles (39.6 km2), or 36.88%, is water.[5] Gloucester 
occupies most of the eastern end of Cape Ann, except for the far tip, which 
is the town of Rockport. The city is split in half by the Annisquam River, 
which flows northward through the middle of the city into Ipswich Bay. 
At its south end it is connected to Gloucester Harbor by the Blynman Canal. 
The land along the northwestern shore of the river is marshy, creating 
several small islands. Gloucester Harbor is divided into several smaller 
coves, including the Western Harbor (site of the Fisherman's Memorial) 
and the Inner Harbor (home to the Gloucester fishing fleet). The eastern 
side of Gloucester Harbor is divided from the rest of Massachusetts Bay 
by Eastern Point, extending some 2 miles (3 km) outward from the mainland. 
There are several parks in the city, the largest of which are Ravenswood 
Park, Stage Fort Park and Mount Ann Park. Gloucester lies between Ipswich 
Bay to the north and Massachusetts Bay to the south. The city is bordered 
on the east by Rockport, and on the west by Ipswich, Essex and Manchester-by-the-Sea 
to the west. (The town line with Ipswich is located across Essex Harbor, 
and as such there is no land connection between the towns.) Gloucester 
lies 16 miles (26 km) east-northeast of Salem and 31 miles (50 km) northeast 
of Boston. Gloucester lies at the eastern terminus of Route 128, which 
ends at Route 127A. Route 127A begins at Route 127 just east of the Route 
128 terminus, heading into Rockport before terminating there. Route 127 
enters from Manchester-by-the-Sea before crossing the Blynman Canal and 
passing through downtown towards Rockport. It then re-enters Gloucester 
near Folly Cove, running opposite of its usual north-south orientation 
towards its terminus at Route 128. Route 133 also terminates within the 
city, entering from Essex and terminating just west of the Blynman Canal 
at Route 127. Besides the bridge over the Blynman Canal, there are only 
two other connections between the eastern and western halves of town, the 
A. Piatt Andrew Memorial Bridge, carrying Route 128, and the Boston & Maine 
Railroad Bridge, just north of the Blynman Canal. Gloucester is home to 
the Cape Ann Transportation Authority, which serves the city and surrounding 
towns. Two stops, in West Gloucester and in downtown Gloucester, provide 
access to the Newburyport/Rockport Line of the MBTA Commuter Rail, which 
extends from Rockport along the North Shore to Boston's North Station. 
The nearest airport is the Beverly Municipal Airport, with the nearest 
national and international air service being at Boston's Logan International 
Airport. As of the 2000 census,[18] there were 30,273 people, 12,592 households, 
and 7,895 families residing in the city. The population density was 1,166.0 
people per square mile (450.2/km²). There were 13,958 housing units at 
an average density of 537.6 per square mile (207.6/km²). The racial makeup 
of the city was 91.99% White, 6.61% African American, 0.72% Asian, 0.12% 
Native American, 0.02% Pacific Islander, 0.50% from other races, and 1.03% 
from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 15.48% of the 
population. 22.6% were of Italian, 16.2% Irish, 11.1% English, 8.5% Portuguese 
and 7.1% American ancestry according to Census 2000. There were 12,592 
households out of which 27.6% had children under the age of 18 living with 
them, 48.8% were married couples living together, 10.6% had a female householder 
with no husband present, and 37.3% were non-families. 30.7% of all households 
were made up of individuals and 11.4% had someone living alone who was 
65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.38 and the average 
family size was 3.00. In the city the population was spread out with 22.0% 
under the age of 18, 6.5% from 18 to 24, 29.9% from 25 to 44, 26.1% from 
45 to 64, and 15.6% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 
40 years. For every 100 females there were 92.0 males. For every 100 females 
age 18 and over, there were 88.8 males. The median income for a household 
in the city was $58,568, and the median income for a family was $80,970 
from a 2007 estimate.[19] Males had a median income of $41,465 versus $30,566 
for females. The per capita income for the city was $25,595. About 7.1% 
of families and 8.8% of the population were below the poverty line, including 
11.8% of those under age 18 and 11.2% of those age 65 or over. Gloucester 
is a city, with a Strong-Mayor-Council System. The current mayor of Gloucester 
is Sefatia Romeo-Theken as of February 15, 2015. The Mayor is also reserved 
a seat on the School Committee. City offices are elected every two years 
(those ending with odd numbers). In 2007 over 40 people ran for the 15 
elected seats in the city's government. The city is divided into five Wards, 
each split into two precincts: As late as the mid-20th century Gloucester 
had as many as eight wards, but they have been since reorganized into current 
number. On November 7, 2005, incumbent Mayor John Bell was re-elected to 
a third term in office. He stated his intention not to run for reelection 
and stepped down in January 2008. On November 6, 2007 Carolyn Kirk was 
elected as the Mayor of Gloucester. Kirk resigned in December 2014 to take 
a position in the administration of Massachusetts governor Charlie Baker. 
Sefatia Theken was then voted to be the interim mayor of Gloucester by 
the City Council. Sefatia was elected to serve a full two-year term on 
November 2, 2015. The following schools are located within the Gloucester 
Public Schools District: Gorton's of Gloucester, Mighty Mac, Gloucester 
Engineering, Good Harbor Consulting, Para Research, Aid-Pack, Cyrk, and 
Varian Semiconductor are among the companies based in Gloucester. The town 
was an important shipbuilding center, and the first schooner was reputedly 
built there in 1713. The community developed into an important fishing 
port, largely due to its proximity to Georges Bank and other fishing banks 
off the east coast of Nova Scotia and Newfoundland. Gloucester's most famous 
(and nationally recognized) seafood business was founded in 1849 as John 
Pew & Sons. It became Gorton-Pew Fisheries in 1906, and in 1957 changed 
its name to Gorton's of Gloucester. The iconic image of the "Gorton's Fisherman", 
and the products he represents, are known throughout the country and beyond. 
Besides catching and processing seafood, Gloucester is also a center for 
research on marine life and conservation ; Ocean Alliance is headquartered 
in the city. In the late 19th century Gloucester saw an influx of Portuguese 
and Italian immigrants seeking work in the town's flourishing fishing industry 
and a better life in America. Some present-day fishermen of Gloucester 
are descendents of these early immigrants. The strong Portuguese and Italian 
influence is evident in the many festivals celebrated throughout the year. 
During the Catholic celebration, St Peter's Fiesta, relatives of fishermen 
past and present carry oars representing many of the fishing vessels which 
call Gloucester their home. Saint Peter is the patron saint of the fishermen. 
Seafaring and fishing have been, and still are, very dangerous undertakings. 
In its over 350-year history, Gloucester has lost over 10,000 men to the 
Atlantic Ocean. The names of each of the known lost are painted on a huge 
mural in the main staircase at City Hall, and also on a new memorial cenotaph 
on Stacy Boulevard. The list has continued to lengthen despite increased 
safety requirements. Gloucester's scenic beauty, active fishing industry, 
and renowned arts community have attracted and inspired painters since 
the early 19th century, as they do today. The first Gloucester painter 
of note was native-born Fitz Henry Lane, whose home still exists on the 
waterfront. The premier collection of his works is in the Cape Ann Museum, 
which holds 40 of his paintings and 100 of his drawings. Other painters 
subsequently attracted to Gloucester include, William Morris Hunt, Winslow 
Homer, Childe Hassam, John Twachtman, Frederick Mulhaupt, Frank Duveneck, 
Cecilia Beaux, Jane Peterson, Gordon Grant, Harry DeMaine, Emile Gruppe, 
Stuart Davis, Joseph Solman, Mark Rothko, Milton Avery, Barnett Newman, 
William Meyerowitz, Joan Lockhart, Theresa Bernstein, and Marsden Hartley, 
and artists from the Ashcan School such as Edward Hopper, John Sloan, Robert 
Henri, William Glackens, and Maurice Prendergast. Smith Cove is home to 
the Rocky Neck Art Colony, the oldest art colony in the country. Folly 
Cove was the home of the Folly Cove Designers, influential to this day 
in print design and technique. Several important sculptors have lived and 
worked in East Gloucester, Annisquam, Lanesville and Folly Cove. They include 
George Aarons, Anna Hyatt Huntington, Charles Grafly, Paul Manship and 
his daughter-in-law Margaret Cassidy Manship, Walker Hancock, and George 
Demetrios. In addition, Aristides Demetrios grew up in Folly Cove. Gloucester 
is the birthplace of Marvel character Dane Whitman whose superhero alter 
ego is the Black Knight. Gloucester's most noted landmark is the harborside 
Man at the Wheel statue (also known as the "Gloucester Fisherman's Memorial 
Cenotaph"), dedicated to "They that go down to the sea in ships", which 
is a quote from Psalm 107:23–32. Gloucester has a professional theatre 
company known as the Gloucester Stage Company, which stages five to eight 
plays each season, primarily in the summer months. Located in East Gloucester, 
the theatre sits at water's edge overlooking Smith's Cove. It was founded 
in 1979 by local arts and business leaders to encourage playwrights and 
their new works. Israel Horovitz, who founded the GSC, was also its artistic 
director from 1979 to 2006. Over the years, plays developed at the Gloucester 
Stage Company have gone on to critical acclaim and popular success, on 
and off Broadway, nationally and internationally. The group draws theatre-goers 
from Gloucester, neighboring North Shore districts, and the greater Boston 
area, as well as seasonal residents and tourists. Gloucester's largest 
annual event is St. Peter's Fiesta, sponsored by the local Italian-American 
community. It is held the last weekend in June, which is typically the 
weekend closest to the saint's feast day. Preceded by a nine-day novena 
of prayers, the festival highlights include the blessing of the fleet and 
the greasy pole contest. The city has much significant architecture, from 
pre-Revolutionary houses to the hilltop 1870 City Hall, which dominates 
the town and harbor. It also has exotic waterfront homes now converted 
to museums, including Beauport, built 1907–1934 by designer Henry Davis 
Sleeper in collaboration with local architect Halfdan Hanson, said to raise 
eclecticism to the level of genius. In addition, it has Hammond Castle, 
built 1926–1929 by inventor John Hays Hammond, Jr., as a setting for his 
collection of Roman, medieval and Renaissance artifacts. Gloucester was 
also the home of feminist writer Judith Sargent Murray and John Murray, 
the founder of the first Universalist Church in America. Their house still 
exists as the Sargent House Museum. Many museums are located in the main 
downtown area, such as the Cape Ann Museum, and the museum/aquarium Maritime 
