"God Bless America" is an American patriotic song written by Irving Berlin 
in 1918 and revised by him in 1938. The later version has notably been 
recorded by Kate Smith, becoming her signature song.[1][2] "God Bless America" 
takes the form of a prayer (intro lyrics "as we raise our voices, in a 
solemn prayer") for God's blessing and peace for the nation ("...stand 
beside her and guide her through the night..."). Irving Berlin wrote the 
song in 1918 while serving the U.S. Army at Camp Upton in Yaphank, New 
York, but decided that it did not fit in a revue called Yip Yip Yaphank, 
so he set it aside.[3] The lyrics at that time included the line "Make 
her victorious on land and foam, God bless America..."[2] as well as "Stand 
beside her and guide her to the right with the light from above".[4] Music 
critic Jody Rosen says that a 1906 Jewish dialect novelty song, "When Mose 
with His Nose Leads the Band," contains a six-note fragment that is "instantly 
recognizable as the opening strains of "God Bless America"". He interprets 
this as an example of Berlin's "habit of interpolating bits of half-remembered 
songs into his own numbers."[5] Berlin, born Israel Baline, had himself 
written several Jewish-themed novelty tunes.[6] In 1938, with the rise 
of Adolf Hitler, Irving Berlin, who was Jewish and had arrived in America 
from Russia at the age of five, felt it was time to revive it as a "peace 
song," and it was introduced on an Armistice Day broadcast in 1938, sung 
by Kate Smith on her radio show.[7] Berlin had made some minor changes; 
by this time, "to the right" might have been considered a call to the political 
right, so he substituted "through the night" instead. He also provided 
an introduction that is now rarely heard but which Smith always used: "While 
the storm clouds gather far across the sea / Let us swear allegiance to 
a land that's free / Let us all be grateful for a land so fair, / As we 
raise our voices in a solemn prayer." (In her first broadcast of the song, 
Kate Smith sang "that we're far from there" rather than "for a land so 
fair".)[4] This was changed when Berlin published the sheet music in March 
1939.[4] Woody Guthrie criticized the song, which he considered unrealistic 
and complacent, and in 1940 he wrote "This Land Is Your Land," originally 
titled "God Blessed America For Me," as a response.[8] Anti-Semitic groups 
such as the Ku Klux Klan also protest the song due to its authorship by 
a Jewish immigrant.[4] In 1943, Smith's rendition was featured in the patriotic 
musical "This is the Army" along with other Berlin songs. The manuscripts 
in the Library of Congress reveal the evolution of the song from victory 
to peace. Berlin gave the royalties of the song to 'The God Bless America 
Fund' for redistribution to Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts in New York City.[9] 
Smith performed the song on her two NBC television series in the 1950s 
and in her short-lived The Kate Smith Show on CBS, which aired on CBS from 
January 25 to July 18, 1960.[10] "God Bless America" also spawned another 
of Irving Berlin's tunes, "Heaven Watch The Philippines," during the end 
of World War II after he heard the Filipinos sing a slightly revised version 
of the song replacing "America" with "The Philippines." The song was used 
early in the Civil Rights Movement as well as at labor rallies.[4] During 
the 1960s, the song was increasingly used by Christian conservatives in 
the US to signal their opposition to secular liberalism and to silence 
dissenters who were speaking in favor of communism or in opposition to 
the U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War.[11] Later, from December 11, 1969,[7] 
through the early 1970s, the playing of Smith singing the song before many 
home games of the National Hockey League's Philadelphia Flyers brought 
it renewed popularity as well as a reputation for being a "good luck charm" 
to the Flyers[7] long before it became a staple of nationwide sporting 
events.[7] The Flyers even brought Smith in to perform live before Game 
6 of the 1974 Stanley Cup Finals on May 19, 1974, and the Flyers won the 
Cup that day.[7][10] "America" was the official campaign song for Franklin 
Delano Roosevelt in 1940, as well as his Republican opponent, Wendell Willkie. 
At that time, the song represented cultural and religious tolerance.[11] 
During a live television broadcast on the evening of the September 11, 
2001, terrorist attacks, following addresses by then House and Senate leaders 
Dennis Hastert and Tom Daschle, members of the United States Congress broke 
out into an apparently spontaneous verse of "God Bless America" on the 
steps of the Capitol building in Washington, D.C.[12] On July 21, 2011, 
Smith's version of the song was played as NASA's final wakeup call for 
the space shuttle Atlantis (STS-135), capping the 30-year shuttle program. 
"God Bless America" has been performed at home games of the National Hockey 
League's Philadelphia Flyers and those of the Ottawa Senators in which 
the visiting team is from the United States. (The NHL requires arenas in 
both the U.S. and Canada to perform both "The Star-Spangled Banner" and 
"O Canada," the Canadian national anthem, at games that involve teams from 
both countries.[13]) At some Flyers' home games, especially during big 
games and the playoffs, their main anthem singer, Lauren Hart, has sung 
"God Bless America" alternating lyrics with Kate Smith on a video screen. 
Kate Smith actually appeared in person to sing at select Flyers games, 
including their 1974 Stanley Cup clinching game against the Boston Bruins, 
to which she received a thunderous ovation from the passionate Philadelphia 
fans. Before games whenever "God Bless America" is performed, Lou Nolan, 
the PA announcer for the Flyers at the Wells Fargo Center, would say: "Ladies 
and gentlemen, at this time, we ask that you please rise and remove your 
hats and salute to our flags and welcome the No. 1 ranked anthemist in 
the NHL, Lauren Hart, as she sings (if the visiting team is from Canada, 
O Canada, followed by) God Bless America, accompanied by the great Kate 
Smith."[14] At some Senators home games since 2000–01,[15] if the visiting 
team is from the U.S., their main anthem singer, Ontario Provincial Police 
Constable Lyndon Slewidge, has sung "God Bless America" and "O Canada."[15] 
An example of this came during the Senators' home opener during the 2002-03 
season, when they were home against the New Jersey Devils.[16] During Tom 
Golisano's time as owner of the Buffalo Sabres, the team occasionally substituted 
"God Bless America" for "The Star Spangled Banner" during certain special 
events. When this occurred, Ronan Tynan was brought in to sing the song 
while usual anthem singer Doug Allen sang "O Canada." At Chicago's Wrigley 
Field during the Vietnam War, the song was often played by the organist 
as part of his postgame playlist while fans filed out of the stadium.[17] 
Since the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, "God Bless America" is 
commonly sung during the seventh-inning stretch in Major League Baseball 
games, most often on Sundays,[18] Opening Day,[19] Memorial Day,[20] Independence 
Day, All-Star Game, Labor Day, September 11,[21] and all post-season Major 
League Baseball games. Following the attacks, John Dever, then the Assistant 
Media Relations Director with the San Diego Padres, suggested the song 
replace "Take Me Out to the Ball Game", the more traditional 7th inning 
anthem.[22] MLB quickly followed the Padres lead and instituted it league-wide 
for the rest of the season; presently, teams decide individually when to 
play the song. Yankee Stadium,[23] and Turner Field[19] are currently the 
only Major League ballparks to play "God Bless America" in every game during 
the seventh-inning stretch. The Yankees' YES Network televises its performance 
during some (mainly home) games before going to a commercial. During major 
games (playoff contests, Opening Day, national holidays, or games against 
Boston or the Mets), the Yankees will often have Irish tenor Ronan Tynan 
perform the song.[24] On August 26, 2008, at a Boston Red Sox game at Yankee 
Stadium, a fan who had attempted to leave for the restroom during the playing 
of the song was restrained and subsequently sent out of the building by 
NYPD officers. Part of the resolution of the resulting lawsuit was that 
the New York Yankees announced that they would no longer restrict the movement 
of fans during the playing of the song.[25] On September 15, 2009, three 
high school teens filed a lawsuit against New Jersey's minor league Newark 
Bears for being ejected from Eagles Riverfront Stadium over their refusal 
to stand during the playing of "God Bless America" on June 29, 2009. Before 
being ejected, they were asked to leave the stadium by Bears president 
and co-owner Thomas Cetnar.[26] To honor the start of the United States 
Bicentennial, Kate Smith sang "God Bless America" for a national television 
audience, accompanied by the UCLA Band at the 1976 Rose Bowl. The Indianapolis 
500 is traditionally run at the end of the month of May, and "God Bless 
America" has been sung there since 2003. The song "America the Beautiful" 
was sung before, but it was switched to "God Bless America" in the post-9/11 
era. The song has traditionally been performed by Florence Henderson, a 
native Hoosier, and is a friend of the Hulman-George family, the track's 
owners. Her performance, often not televised, immediately precedes the 
national anthem. Henderson routinely sings the entire song, including the 
prologue, and in some years sings the chorus a second time. Following the 
September 11 terrorist attacks, Canadian pop star Celine Dion performed 
the song on the TV special America: A Tribute to Heroes. Shortly afterwards 
on October 16, Sony Music Entertainment released a benefit album called 
God Bless America, which featured Dion singing the song. The album debuted 
at No. 1 on the Billboard 200 and became the first charity album to reach 
the top since USA for Africa's "We Are the World" in 1985.[27] Dion's version 
also received enough radio airplay to reach No. 14 on Billboard's Hot Adult 
Contemporary Tracks chart. The music video was made and aired in September 
2001. Dion performed the song also a few times during 2002. In 2003, she 
performed it at Super Bowl XXXVII, which was the first time that "God Bless 
America" was performed at a Super Bowl.[28] She sang it on July 4, 2004 
in her A New Day... show as well. "God Bless America" performed by Dion 
exists in two versions, live and studio. Both included on collections to 
gather funds for the victims of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 
2001, and their families. The live version, on America: A Tribute to Heroes, 
is from the telethon event of the same name that took place on September 
21, 2001. The studio version is on the God Bless America album, a patriotic 
songs CD. It was recorded on September 20, 2001, the day before the American 
telethon. It was meant to be a replacement for the performance in the event 
something happened and Dion couldn't appear. The song was recorded by New 
York City's "singing cop," Daniel Rodríguez, and charted for one week at 
No. 99 on the Billboard Hot 100 as a single. Before the 2001 versions, 
the last time "God Bless America" had been a Billboard chart hit was in 
1959 when Connie Francis reached No. 36 with her version (the B-side of 
her Top 10 hit "Among My Souvenirs"). In 1996 Yiddish singer Leo Fuld recorded 
a Dutch version of the song as God Bless The Netherlands, that he presented 
and sang on April 30 to Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands. In 1997, American 
country music recording artist LeAnn Rimes recorded a cover of the song 
on her second studio album, You Light Up My Life: Inspirational Songs.[29] 
After the events of September 11, Rimes rereleased the song on a compilation 
album by the same name.[30] Rimes also released the song on a CD single. 
Two versions were released on October 16, 2001.[31] Both versions contain 
the song as the A-side track, but the B-side tracks were different. One 
released to the general public was released with the B-side track, "Put 
a Little Holiday in Your Heart,"[31] and the other was released to radio 
with the B-side track of Rimes's rendition of "The National Anthem."[32] 
Rimes's version peaked at No. 57 on the Billboard Country Songs chart on 
October 27, 2001.[33] In 2009 keyboardist Bob Baldwin covered the renowned 
song from his album "Lookin' Back."[34][35] The song has spawned numerous 
parodies. While the storm clouds gather far across the sea, Let us swear 
allegiance to a land that's free. Let us all be grateful for a land so 
fair, As we raise our voices in a solemn prayer: God bless America, land 
that I love, Stand beside her and guide her Through the night with a light 
from above. From the mountains, to the prairies, To the oceans white with 
foam, God bless America, my home sweet home. God bless America, my home 
sweet home. An earlier and much more obscure song called "God Bless America!" 
was written by Robert Montgomery Bird and published in 1834. Sheet music 
for this version is available online from the Library of Congress. The 
lyrics begin: God bless the land that gave us birth! No pray'r but this 
know we. God bless the land, of all the earth, The happy and the free. 
And where's the land like ours can brave The splendor of the day. And find 
no son of hers a slave? God bless America! God bless the land, the land 
beloved Forever and for aye! God bless the land that gave us birth. God 
