Going To Bat Foundation is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization conceived 
and created by three Southern California high school athletes to improve 
the lives of youths around the world. The mission is to provide any child 
who wishes to play baseball or softball with the means and the opportunity, 
providing a viable alternative to other destructive options. Going To Bat 
Foundation supplements programs provided by Major League Baseball like 
Reviving Baseball in Inner Cities. Going To Bat Foundation also provides 
support for Little League Baseball programs ravaged by economic and natural 
disasters. In 2012, Going To Bat Foundation merged with Sharing the Sandlot 
a Gilbert, Arizona based charity group under the Going To Bat Foundation 
name to better serve the Phoenix metropolitan area. Sharing the Sandlot's 
Shaun Rico joined the Board of Directors of Going to Bat Foundation'. In 
2012 Going To Bat Foundation formed a strategic partnership with Phoenix 
based Opportunity Through Baseball to help expand the highly successful 
education and youth development program initiated by OTB at two Phoenix 
inner city schools. The goal of this joint initiative is to bolster the 
public schools in the Phoenix community, expand existing relationships 
and enhance the student learning experience. Hands-on tutoring by educators 
and business professionals as well as exposure to real-world technology, 
will better prepare students to graduate with marketable skills and confidence. 
Opportunity Through Baseball's Phoenix based Sean Payton joined the Board 
of Directors of Going To Bat Foundation. The Going To Bat Foundation was 
founded in 2009 by three athletes from Orange County, California. Adam 
Salcido (Laguna Hills High School); Kyle Candalla (Mission Viejo High School) 
and Kieran Lovegrove (Mission Viejo High School)[1] recognized that the 
opportunities, facilities and equipment that they found readily available 
were not available to all. They witnessed first hand children falling through 
the cracks because their parents did not have the means to pay for their 
children to play sports. The Going To Bat Foundation helps make athletics 
possible for more children. After seeing a video of kids in a township 
near Cape Town in South Africa, playing baseball barefoot in a drainage 
ditch strewn with litter, Salcido, Candalla, and Lovegrove collected used 
baseball gear from all over California and began distributing it to the 
most needy. The first large shipment of equipment and clothing was sent 
to the Phillipi Angels Township Baseball Academy.[2] Adam Salcido is the 
son of renowned author, psychotherapist and youth baseball coach Raymond 
Salcido, writer of Chaos to Balance: A Life-changing Strategy. Adam Salcido 
is a talented shortstop who played in the 2009 California Cup on an all 
star team selected from the entire Southern California area. Along with 
baseball Salcido also plays basketball and Varsity football at Laguna Hills 
High School. Salcido played shortstop on his high school varsity baseball 
team as a Freshman! Candalla played in the 2009 California Cup (Manteca, 
California) on an all-star team selected from the entire Southern California 
area. Candalla was also selected as one of only 10 14-year-olds to represent 
Southern California at the National Team Identification Series at USA Baseball 
National Training Complex in Cary, North Carolina. Candalla played on the 
varsity baseball team as a Freshman at Mission Viejo High School! Kieran 
Lovegrove was born in Johannesburg, South Africa in 1994. He learnt his 
ball skills playing cricket. He moved to California at age 5, and fell 
in love with the game of baseball. Lovegrove was a member of the Saddleback 
Coyotes Baseball Team that won the 2005 National Cooperstown Tournament 
of Champions (Oneonta, New York), where he also won the shortstop skills 
competition. Lovegrove is a pitcher on the Mission Viejo High School (Mission 
Viejo, California) baseball team. In addition to baseball, Lovegrove was 
also an All Star soccer player (goalie) and football wide receiver. Kieran 
Lovegrove was committed to play baseball for Arizona State University in 
2012. Donations of new and used equipment are accepted from all sources; 
individuals, Little League and Travel Ball Programs. Donations can be made 
through the Going To Bat Foundation website. The Going To Bat Foundation 
recently received the 1st Annual New Balance Community Service Award when 
founder Kieran Lovegrove was recognized at the 2011 Area Code Games.[13] 
Lovegrove played on the Southern California Milwaukee Brewers team in the 
