Golden Gate Park, located in San Francisco, California, United States, 
is a large urban park consisting of 1,017 acres (412 ha) of public grounds. 
It is administered by the San Francisco Recreation & Parks Department, 
which began in 1871 to oversee the development of Golden Gate Park. Configured 
as a rectangle, it is similar in shape but 20 percent larger than Central 
Park in New York, to which it is often compared. It is over three miles 
(4.8 km) long east to west, and about half a mile (0.8 km) north to south.[3] 
With 13 million visitors annually, Golden Gate is the fifth most-visited 
city park in the United States after Central Park in New York City, Lincoln 
Park in Chicago, and Balboa Park and Mission Bay Park in San Diego.[1] 
In the 1860s, San Franciscans began to feel the need for a spacious public 
park similar to Central Park, which was then taking shape in New York City. 
Golden Gate Park was carved out of unpromising sand and shore dunes that 
were known as the Outside Lands, in an unincorporated area west of San 
Francisco’s then-current borders. Conceived ostensibly for recreation, 
the underlying purpose of the park was housing development and the westward 
expansion of the city. The tireless field engineer William Hammond Hall 
prepared a survey and topographic map of the park site in 1870 and became 
its commissioner in 1871. He was later named California's first state engineer 
and developed an integrated flood control system for the Sacramento Valley. 
The park drew its name from nearby Golden Gate Strait. The plan and planting 
were developed by Hall and his assistant, John McLaren, who had apprenticed 
in Scotland, home of many of the 19th-century’s best professional gardeners. 
John McLaren, when asked by the Park Commission if he could make Golden 
Gate Park "one of the beauty spots of the world," replied saying " With 
your aid gentleman, and God be willing, that I shall do." He also promised 
that he'd "go out into the country and walk along a stream until he found 
a farm, and that he'd come back to the garden and recreate what nature 
had done." [4] The initial plan called for grade separations of transverse 
roadways through the park, as Frederick Law Olmsted had provided for Central 
Park, but budget constraints and the positioning of the Arboretum and the 
Concourse ended the plan. In 1876, the plan was almost replaced by one 
for a racetrack, favored by "the Big Four" millionaires: Leland Stanford, 
Mark Hopkins, Collis P. Huntington, and Charles Crocker. Stanford, who 
was president of the Southern Pacific Railroad, was also one of the owners 
of the Ocean Railroad Company, which ran from Haight Street across the 
park to its south border, then out to the beach and north to a point near 
Cliff House. It was Gus Mooney who claimed land adjacent to the park on 
Ocean Beach. Many of Mooney's friends also staked claims and built shanties 
on the beach to sell refreshments to the patrons of the park. Hall resigned, 
and the remaining park commissioners followed. In 1882 Governor George 
C. Perkins appointed Frank M. Pixley founder and editor of The Argonaut 
to the board of commissioners of San Francisco's Golden Gate Park. Pixley 
was adamant that the Mooney's shanties be eliminated, and he found support 
with the San Francisco Police for park security. Pixley favored Stanford's 
company by granting a fifty-year lease on the route that closed the park 
on three sides to competition.[5] The original plan, however, was back 
on track by 1886, when streetcars delivered over 47,000 people to Golden 
Gate Park on one weekend afternoon (out of a population of 250,000 in the 
city). Hall selected McLaren as his successor in 1887. The first stage 
of the park's development centered on planting trees in order to stabilize 
the dunes that covered three-quarters of the park’s area. By 1875, about 
60,000 trees, mostly Eucalyptus globulus, Monterey pine, and Monterey cypress, 
had been planted. By 1879, that figure more than doubled to 155,000 trees 
over 1,000 acres (400 ha). Later, McLaren scoured the world for trees, 
by correspondence. When he refused to retire at age 60, as was customary, 
the San Francisco city government was bombarded with letters: when he reached 
70, a charter amendment was passed to exempt him from forced retirement. 
He lived in McLaren Lodge in Golden Gate Park until he died in 1943, aged 
96. In 1903, a pair of Dutch-style windmills were built at the extreme 
western end of the park. These pumped water throughout the park. The north 
windmill was restored to its original appearance in 1981 and is adjacent 
to Queen Wilhelmina tulip garden, a gift of Queen Wilhelmina of the Netherlands.[6] 
These are planted with tulip bulbs for winter display and other flowers 
in appropriate seasons. The Murphy Windmill in the southwest corner of 
the park was restored in September 2011. Following the disastrous events 
of the famous 1906 San Francisco earthquake, Golden Gate Park has also 
served as a safe haven for survivors and refugees of the devastating catastrophe. 
"The Army constructed a virtual town with large residential barracks [with 
temporary] tented housing, latrines and bathhouses, laundries, and other 
services".[7] Most of the water used for landscape watering and for various 
water features is now[when?] provided by groundwater from the city's Westside 
Basin Aquifer.[8] However, the use of highly processed and recycled effluent 
from the city’s sewage treatment plant, located at the beach some miles 
away to the south near the San Francisco Zoo, is planned for the near future[when?]. 
In the 1950s, the use of this effluent during cold weather caused some 
consternation, with the introduction of artificial detergents but before 
the advent of modern biodegradable products. These "hard" detergents would 
cause long-lasting billowing piles of foam to form on the creeks connecting 
the artificial lakes and could even be blown onto the roads, forming a 
traffic hazard. A sliver of park at the far east end of Golden Gate Park, 
the Panhandle, lies north of Haight-Ashbury, and it was the site of the 
Human Be-In of 1967, preceding the Summer of Love. The Music Concourse 
is a sunken, oval-shaped open-air plaza originally excavated for the California 
Midwinter International Exposition of 1894. Its focal point is the Spreckels 
Temple of Music, also called the "Bandshell," where numerous music performances 
have been staged. During the fall, spring, and summer seasons, various 
food trucks are often parked behind the Bandshell, providing local food 
options to visitors of the Music Concourse. The area also includes a number 
of statues of various historic figures, four fountains, and a regular grid 
array of heavily pollarded trees. Since 2003, the Music Concourse has undergone 
a series of improvements to include an underground 800-car parking garage 
and pedestrianization of the plaza itself. It is surrounded by various 
cultural attractions, including: Named for M. H. de Young, the San Francisco 
newspaper magnate, the De Young Museum is a fine arts museum that was opened 
in January 1921. Its original building, the Fine Arts Building, was part 
of the 1894 Midwinter Exposition, of which Mr. de Young was the director. 
The Fine Arts Building featured several artists, twenty-eight of whom were 
female. One of these revolutionaries was Helen Hyde, who is featured in 
the De Young Museum today. Once the fair ended, the Egyptian-styled building 
remained open "brimful and running over with art." Most of these pieces 
were paintings and sculptures purchased by De Young himself, and others 
were donations of household antiques from the older community, which were 
"more sentimental than artistic." By 1916, the Fine Arts Building’s collection 
had grown to 1,000,000 items, and a more suitable museum was necessary.[4] 
Construction to build a new museum began in 1917. With funds donated by 
De Young, and Louis Mullgardt as head architect, the De Young Museum was 
completed in 1921 in a "sixteenth century Spanish Renaissance design, with 
pale salmon colored façades that were burdened with rococo ornamentation." 
At its center was a 134-foot tower from which its wings extended. At the 
entrance was the Pool of Enchantment, which consisted of the sculptured 
Indian boys created by M. Earl Cummings. The museum contained four wings: 
the East Wing (featuring ever-changing paintings, sculptures and photography 
by artists such as Vincent Van Gogh); the Central Wing (famous American 
and European work); the Northeast wing (Asian collections); and the West 
Wing (artistic history of San Francisco).[9] The original De Young Memorial 
Museum stood for most of the twentieth century, until 2001 when it was 
completely rebuilt, reopening in 2005. The head-architects, Jacques Herzog 
and Pierre de Meuron, when asked on their design, said they wanted to create 
a place "where the art would be less hierarchically presented – more like 
contemporary art than like bijoux." [10] The building is mostly constructed 
of copper, and its unique design was created with the idea that the "building 
would be enhanced not only by sunlight but also by San Francisco’s constant 
fog." [10] Since the opening of the De Young in 1921, its galleries have 
mostly changed, but some of the art originally featured during the fair 
and in the early twentieth century still exists in the museum today. The 
galleries of Asian art have since been relocated, but the De Young still 
features American art, Modern art, African art, textiles and sculptures, 
and special alternating exhibitions. The California Academy of Sciences 
was founded in 1853, just three years after California was made a state, 
making it the oldest scientific institution in the western United States. 
Evolutionist Charles Darwin corresponded on the initial organization of 
the early institution.[11] The original museum consisted of eleven buildings 
built between 1916 and 1976 located on the former site of the 1894 Midwinter 
Fair’s Mechanical Arts Building in Golden Gate Park.[12] The structure 
was largely destroyed in the 1989 earthquake and just three original buildings 
were conserved for the new construction: the African Hall, the North American 
Hall, and the Steinhart Aquarium.[12] The new building opened in 2008 at 
the same location in the park. The present building encompasses 37,000 
square meters[12] and includes exhibits of natural history, aquatic life, 
astronomy, gems and minerals, and earthquakes.[13] The museum is currently 
one of the ten largest natural history museums in the world and holds 18 
million scientific specimens between the research institute and public 
exhibits.[13] The academy also contains a 2.5-acre living roof with almost 
1.7 million native California plants[14] and domes that cover the planetarium 
and rainforest exhibitions. The soil of the roof is six inches deep, which 
reduces storm water runoff by more than 90%[14] and naturally cools the 
interior of the museum, thereby reducing the need for air-conditioning. 
The glass panels of the living roof also contain cells that collect more 
than 5% of the electricity needed to power the museum.[12] Due to its eco-friendly 
materials and natural sources of energy, the California Academy of Sciences 
has been named the country’s only LEED-platinum certified museum, granted 
by the U.S. Green Building Council.[14] The Japanese Tea Garden is the 
oldest public Japanese garden in the United States and takes up five of 
the 1,017 acres (412 ha) of the Golden Gate Park.[15] George Turner Marsh, 
an Australian immigrant, originally created the garden for the 1894 Midwinter 
Exposition. The landscaping and design was maintained by Makoto Hagiwara 
until 1942 and includes still-standing features such as the Drum Bridge 
and the Tea House.[16] Subsequent additions include a pagoda and Zen garden. 
It is located to the left of the de Young Museum and is one reported site 
of the introduction of the fortune cookie to America.[17] The Japanese 
Tea Garden serves as a spot of tranquility in the middle of the various 
activities that take place at the Golden Gate Park[18] and provides visitors 
"a place in which it is possible to be at one with nature, its rhythms, 
and changing beauties."[19] The Japanese Tea Garden brings in more than 
$1 million to the Golden Gate Park and the city annually. There is a constant 
debate deciding between what changes should and should not be made to the 
garden. On one hand, adding souvenir shops and a diversity of food options 
at the garden brings in more money to the organization monitoring the Golden 
Gate Park, the Recreation and Park Commission. On the other hand, selling 
products that share knowledge about Japanese gardens and the Japanese culture 
help keep the Japanese Tea Garden authentic.[20] The Conservatory of Flowers 
opened in 1879, standing today as the oldest building in Golden Gate Park.[21] 
The Conservatory of Flowers is one of the world's largest conservatories, 
as well as one of few large Victorian greenhouses in the United States.[22] 
Built of traditional wood and glass panes, the Conservatory stands at 12,000 
square feet[23] and houses 1,700 species of tropical, rare and aquatic 
plants.[21] Though it wasn’t originally constructed, William Hammond Hall 
included the idea of a conservatory in his original concept for the design 
of the park.[22] The idea was later realized with the help of twenty-seven 
of the wealthiest business owners in San Francisco.[23] The conservatory 
was originally prefabricated for local real estate entrepreneur James Lick 
for his Santa Clara, California, estate but was still in its crates when 
he died in 1876. Those 27 business owners purchased the conservatory and 
donated it to the city, it was erected in Golden Gate Park and opened to 
the public in 1879. In 1883, a boiler exploded and the main dome caught 
fire. A restoration was undertaken by Southern Pacific magnate Charles 
Crocker. It survived the earthquake of 1906, only to suffer another fire 
in 1918. In 1933 it was declared unsound and closed to the public, only 
to be reopened in 1946. In 1995, after a severe storm with 100 mph (161 km/h) 
winds damaged the structure, shattering 40% of the glass, the conservatory 
had to be closed again. It was cautiously dissected for repairs and finally 
reopened in September 2003. Special Exhibits Room Every six months the 
special exhibits room changes its gallery. Oftentimes the exhibits include 
model trains as well as models displaying the topic of presentation. Galleries 
vary from California fairs to tropical island survival. Potted Plants Gallery 
The Potted Plant room holds various unusual plants. The pots and urns that 
hold the plants were created by various artists from around the world.[4] 
This room is maintained at hotter temperatures to accommodate the needs 
of the plants. The Potted Plant Gallery follows Victorian architecture 
and the 19th century idea of displaying tropical plants in non-tropical 
parts of the world.[4] Lowlands Gallery The Lowlands Gallery contains plants 
from the tropics of South America (near the equator).[9] This room also 
contains plants that produce more well-known products such as bananas, 
coffee, and cinnamon.[9] The room is usually kept around 70 °F with a very 
high level of humidity through the use of a frequent system of misters, 
as the Lowland Tropics typically get 100-400 inches of rain each year and 
are located in elevations from 3,000 feet to sea level.[9] Highlands Gallery 
The Highlands Gallery contains native plants from South to Central America.[14] 
Its plants collect moisture from the air, and from water that drips from 
the trees above. Due to its drastically higher elevation (3,000-10,000 
feet), this room is kept cooler than the Lowlands Gallery (around 65 °F) 
and is kept at a very high level of humidity through the use of a misting 
system, as the Highland Tropics typically receive 200 inches of rain per 
year.[14] Aquatics Gallery The Aquatic Plants room is similar in conditions 
as those near the Amazon River.[24] As such, many carnivorous plants that 
thrive in hot, humid environments grow throughout the room. The soil is 
mostly lacking in nutrients and the carnivorous plants are kept very moist 
by condensation of the water in the extremely humid air.[24] The room also 
contains 2 large ponds, one holding 9,000 gallons of water, and the other 
holding half as much.[24] Both ponds are kept at 83 °F and are maintained 
using beneficial bacteria, filters, water heaters, and solutions to prevent 
algae buildup.[24] The two-story Beach Chalet[25] faces the Great Highway 
and Ocean Beach at the far western end of the park. It was opened in 1925 
in Spanish clonial revival style as a city-run restaurant and included 
changing rooms for beach visitors.[26] Elaborate murals were added to the 
first floor as a 1936 Works Progress Administration project. The murals 
depict real people and scenes from San Francisco in the 1930s. After World 
War II the city leased the Beach Chalet to the Veterans of Foreign Wars 
for $50 a month.[27] A 1952 "smoker" featured gambling, strippers and lewd 
films, arrested in connection, was Salvatore (Tarbaby) Terrano, of the 
Waxey Gordon narcotics ring.[27] The VFW moved out after the city bumped 
the rent to $500 a month in 1979.[27] The Mural room is now the San Francisco 
Visitor's Center. After several years of closure and following a renovation 
completed in 1996, the building now houses the Beach Chalet Brewery and 
Restaurant on the second floor, opened by Lara and Gar Truppelli and Timon 
Malloy. Its sister restaurant, the Park Chalet, is located to the back 
of the Beach Chalet with a dining room facing the park and outdoor dining 
on a terrace and lawn area. Before the construction of the windmills, Golden 
Gate Park was paying the Spring Valley Water Works up to 40 cents per 1000 
gallons of water.[28] To avoid this expense the North (Dutch) Windmill 
was commissioned in 1902 when Superintendent John McLaren deemed the Park's 
pumping plant insufficient to supply the additional water essential to 
the life of the Park. A survey and inspection of the vast area west of 
Strawberry Hill revealed a large flow of water toward the ocean. The North 
windmill was constructed to reclaim the drainage towards the Pacific Ocean 
and direct fresh well water back into the park.[28] Alpheus Bull Jr., a 
prominent San Franciscan, designed the North Windmill. The Fulton Engineering 
Company received the bid for the ironwork, and Pope and Talbot Lumber Company 
donated sails ("spars") of Oregon pine. The North Windmill was installed, 
standing 75 feet tall with 102 foot long sails. The Windmill pumps water 
up an elevation of 200 feet with a capacity of 30,000 gallons of water 
per pump per hour, supplying and replenishing Lloyd Lake, Metson Lake, 
Spreckels Lake and Lincoln Park.[29] The water is pumped from the valley 
into a reservoir on Strawberry Hill from there the water runs downhill 
into Falls and Stow Lake.[30] The North Windmill was successful causing 
another system of wells and a second windmill at the southwestern corner 
of the Park to be recommended. Samuel G Murphy provided from his own means, 
$20,000 to erect the windmill. The South Windmill (Murphy Windmill) stands 
as the largest in the world, having the longest sails in the world, since 
its construction, with the ability to lift 40,000 gallons of water per 
hour. The Statue of John McLaren stands in the Rhododendron Dell. John 
McLaren had this statue hidden and it was only placed in the dell after 
his death.[31] Other Statues of historical figures are also located throughout 
the park, including Francis Scott Key, Robert Emmet, Robert Burns, the 
double monument to Johann Goethe and Friedrich Schiller, General Pershing, 
Beethoven, Giuseppe Verdi, President Garfield, and Thomas Starr King. The 
bronze statue of Don Quixote and his companion, Sancho Panza kneeling to 
honor their creator, Cervantes, combines historical and fictitious characters. 
At the Horseshoe Court in the northeast corner of the park near Fulton 
and Stanyan, there is a concrete bas-relief of "The Horseshoe Pitcher" 
by Jesse "Vet" Anderson, a member of the Horseshoe Club. Across from the 
Conservatory of Flowers is Douglas Tilden's "The Baseball Player". On the 
hill at the top of Rainbow Falls stands the Prayerbook Cross, a 60-foot 
tall monument erected in 1894. A gift from the Church of England, the Celtic-style 
cross once was quite prominent, but is now largely hidden by park trees.[32] 
An ornate carousel displaying a bestiary is housed in a circular building 
near the children's playground. The carousel was built in 1914 by the Herschell-Spillman 
Company.[33] The building was occupied by three previous carousels before 
the current attraction was purchased by Herbert Fleishhacker from the Golden 
Gate International Exposition in 1941. The 1914 carousel has undergone 
several major renovations, the first, a transition from steam to electric 
power with the assistance of the PG&E Company.[34] In 1977 the carousel 
closed for safety concerns and The San Francisco Arts Commission hired 
local artist Ruby Newman to oversee the artistic restoration. Her crew 
of craftspeople restored the badly deteriorated carousel and she hand painted 
all animals, chariots, and decorative housing (she holds the copyright). 
The carousel was re-opened in 1984.[35] Presently, the carousel includes 
sixty two animals, a German Band Organ, and painted landscapes of the bay 
area by Ruby Newman. Two of the animals, a goat and an outside stander 
horse, are by the Dentzel Wooden Carousel Company.[36] Encompassing the 
carousel is the Koret Playground, originally the Children's Quarters, which 
was envisioned to be a primary feature in the Golden Gate Park's beginnings. 
Funded by Senator William Sharon, the park was finished in 1888, and designated 
a recreational space for women and their children.[37] At the time, the 
park boasted to be the first public children's playground in America; offering 
swings, indoor enclosures, open sitting areas and the original carousel 
to community youth.[38] The 2007 renovations funded by the Koret foundation 
nurtured the playground to its current height for the use of park goers. 
The San Francisco Botanical Garden was laid out in the 1890s, but funding 
was insufficient until Helene Strybing willed funds in 1926. Planting began 
in 1937 with WPA funds supplemented by local donations. This 55 acres (22 ha) 
arboretum contains more than 7,500 plant species.[39] The arboretum also 
houses the Helen Crocker Russell Library, northern California's largest 
horticultural library.[40] Due to the unique climate of San Francisco and 
Golden Gate Park,[41] the plants in the San Francisco Botanical Garden 
range from a variety of different national origins, some of them no longer 
existing in their natural habitats. Areas of origin include but are not 
limited to Africa, Australia, New Zealand, and Central and South America.[42] 
These regions of origin go from desert to tropical. In addition, some native 
California species are housed in the garden as well, such as Redwood trees.[43] 
Overall, the tradition of these diverse gardens that eventually served 
to inspire the San Francisco Botanical Garden comes originally from China, 
Europe, and Mexico.[44] Stow Lake surrounds the prominent Strawberry Hill, 
now an island with an electrically pumped waterfall. Rowboats and pedalboats 
can be rented at the boathouse. Much of the western portion of San Francisco 
can be seen from the top of this hill, which at its top contains one of 
the reservoirs that supply a network of high-pressure water mains that 
exclusively supply specialized fire hydrants throughout the city. Two bridges 
connect the inner island to the surrounding mainland. An artificial reservoir 
behind a small earthen dam that lies on the north side of the Golden Gate 
Park between Spreckels Lake Drive and Fulton Street to the north, and John 
F. Kennedy Drive to the south and named after sugar-fortune heir and then 
San Francisco Parks Commissioner Adolph B. Spreckels,[45] who donated the 
surrounding land to the park. Built between 1902 and 1904 at the request 
of the San Francisco Model Yacht Club specifically as a model boating facility, 
the lake was first filled in February 1904 and opened March 20, 1904. One 
can usually find both 'sail driven,' self-guided Yachts and electric or 
gas/nitro powered radio-controlled model boats of many types and designs 
plying the lake's waters most times of year. Many naturalistically landscaped 
lakes are placed throughout the park: several are linked together into 
chains, with pumped water creating flowing creeks. Out of the original 
14 natural marshy lakes within the sand dunes Golden Gate Park was built 
in, only 5 remain, three of which are the Chain of Lakes. The three lakes, 
North, Middle, and South Lake, are located along the Chain of Lakes Drive. 
North Lake is the largest of the three, and is known for its water birds 
that often live on the small islands within the lake.[46] Some of the birds 
spotted are egrets, belted kingfishers, ducks, and great blue herons. It 
is surrounded by a paved walkway that is often used by families, joggers, 
and dog walkers.[47] In 1898, McLaren started a landscaping project, inspired 
by Andrew Jackson Downing’s teachings on building with nature. Seven islands 
were planted within the North Lake in 1899, using different species of 
shrubs and trees. A gazebo was built, and wooden footbridges were used 
to connect the different islands within the lake. Both the gazebo and the 
bridges were removed in order to conserve nesting birds on the islands.[48] 
Middle Lake is particularly known for bird-watching due to the visits of 
migrant species of birds like tanagers, warblers and vireos. It is surrounded 
by a dirt trail and vegetation.[47] The lake resembles the marshes that 
existed before Golden Gate Park, and is known for being a more remote and 
romantic setting.[46] South Lake is the smallest of the three lakes, and 
borders Martin Luther King Jr. Drive.[46] There are few birds, and few 
visitors.[47] Bison (Bison bison) have been kept in Golden Gate Park since 
1891, when a small herd was purchased by the park commission.[49] At the 
time, the animal's population in North America had dwindled to an all-time 
low, and San Francisco made a successful effort to breed them in captivity. 
In 1899, the paddock in the western section of the park was created. At 
its peak and through a successful captive breeding program, more than 100 
calves were produced at Golden Gate Park, helping preserve the iconic bison 
population numbers in North America, which has been critical to the culture 
and livelihood of Native Americans. In 1984, Mayor Dianne Feinstein's husband, 
Richard C. Blum, purchased a new herd as a birthday present for his wife.[50] 
The older bison in the paddock today are descendants of those animals. 
In December 2011, after the number of bison in the paddock had dwindled 
to three, Assemblywoman Fiona Ma’s office led another preservation effort. 
With donations from the Theodore Rosen Charitable Foundation, Richard C. 
Blum, and the Garen Wimer Ranch, Assemblywoman Ma’s office worked with 
the San Francisco Zoo and SF Recreation and Parks to add seven new bison 
to the existing herd. The Paddock is currently open to the public for viewing. 
Nestled in the trees between the Conservatory of Flowers and Haight street, 
Hippie Hill is a home to what can be described as San Francisco’s "alternative" 
lifestyles. The area known as Hippie Hill is a small hill with a sloping 
green lawn just off of Kezar Drive, with Eucalyptus and Oak on either side.[51] 
The hill is a place where people from many different backgrounds come together. 
"It’s ultra liberal San Francisco at its’ finest."[52] Hippie Hill has 
also been part of San Francisco’s history, namely the Summer of Love, which 
was a large counterculture movement that partially took part on the hill. 
During this Summer of Love, people gathered together to connect with one 
another in many ways, mainly dropping acid and playing music together. 
Music has its own history on the hill, with musicians and bands like Janis 
Joplin, the Grateful Dead, Jefferson Airplane, and George Harrison playing 
music for free to the public. Improvised drum circles still form on the 
weekends where people come together and fill the park with a constant beat 
for hours on end. The hill played a major part in the hippies' ability 
to openly use drugs because the police had employed a policy of looking 
the other way when it came to the hill.[13] Though the police have been 
known to crack down on certain occurrences in the park, when it comes to 
Hippie Hill, the SFPD has been known to be lenient with what goes on there. 
This leniency seems to increase during things like concerts and other public 
events. As supervisor London Breed stated, "smoking anything in any city 
park is illegal, but San Francisco has a tradition of turning a blind eye 
to infractions for official or unofficial events."[13] The police department 
has stated that they are not naïve enough to attempt to catch all the people 
smoking marijuana at the hill, but as Police Chief Greg Suhr said, "There 
are plenty of other things that came with it that we will not have."[53] 
In 2013, San Francisco photographer David Cruz first sighted and shot pictures 
of coyote pups in Golden Gate Park.[54] It is estimated that over 1000 
coyotes live in San Francisco, and there have been more sightings in Golden 
Gate Park than any other spot in the city.[55] Coyotes have proven adaptive 
in the city, as they live primarily in open prairies and deserts.[56] In 
the decades following the first reports of AIDS in the United States in 
1981, Americans were overwhelmed with the devastation of the AIDS epidemic.[57] 
In 1988 a few San Francisco residents belonging to communities hit hard 
by the AIDS epidemic envisioned a place of remembrance for those who had 
lost their lives to AIDS. They imagined a serene AIDS memorial where people 
could go to heal.[58] Renovation for the National Aids Memorial Grove began 
in September 1991 and continues today as communities are constantly working 
to improve it.[59] Located at 856 Stanyan Street, in the eastern portion 
of Golden Gate Park, the Grove stretches across seven acres of land. In 
1996, due to Nancy Pelosi’s efforts, the "National AIDS Memorial Grove 
Act" was passed by Congress and the President of the United States, Bill 
Clinton, which officially made those seven acres of Golden Gate Park the 
first AIDS memorial in the United States. Then in 1999, it earned the Rudy 
Bruner Silver Medal Award for excellence in the urban environment.[59] 
Due to its serene environment of redwoods, maples, ferns, benches, logs, 
and boulders, this memorial remains a place where people go to grieve, 
hope, heal, and remember.[12] Located at the Dogwood Crescent the Circle 
of Friends is the heart of the grove.[60] The Circle of Friends has over 
1,500 names inscribed on its flagstone ground which represent lives lost 
to AIDS.[61] If one wishes to inscribe a name into the Circle of Friends 
they must donate $1,000 to the memorial and the name will be inscribed 
before the Worlds AIDS day commemoration on December 1.[62] Funded privately 
and tended by over 500 of volunteers, The National AIDS Memorial Grove 
remains an important sanctuary for remembrance.[63] On November 30 an annual 
Light in the Grove fundraising gala is held in the Grove. This event, held 
on the eve of Worlds Aids Day, sells out each year and was voted "Best 
Bay Area LGBT Fundraiser" by Bay Area Reporter readers in 2015.[64] The 
Shakespeare Garden is a relatively small[clarification needed] "17th century 
classical garden"[65] located directly southwest of the California Academy 
of Sciences. It is a tribute to William Shakespeare and his works, decorated 
with flowers and plants that are mentioned in his plays. The entrance is 
an ornate metal gate that says "Shakespeare Garden" intertwined with vines. 
Directly past the entrance is a walkway overarched with trees and lined 
with small flowers and a sundial in the center. The main area has a large 
moss tree and benches. At the end of the garden there is a wooden padlocked 
shelf containing a bust of William Shakespeare himself. The cast was made 
and given to the garden by George Bullock in 1918 and has remained behind 
locked doors since around 1950 to prevent people from cutting off pieces 
of the statue to melt down.[66] Around the bust, there are four plaques, 
originally six, with quotes from Shakespeare. The missing two were stolen 
and most likely sold and melted down so the thieves could make a profit 
from the bronze the plaques were made from.[65] Alice Eastwood, the director 
of botany from the California Academy of Sciences at the time, came up 
with the idea for the garden in 1928. It however is not unique, as there 
are several Shakespeare gardens around the world, including "Cleveland, 
Manhattan, Vienna, and Johannesburg."[65] The garden is a popular spot 
for weddings.[67] There are over 200 plants from Shakespeare’s works.[66] 
The Rose Garden is found between John F. Kennedy Drive and Park Presidio 
Drive.[68] Golden Gate park contains many areas for sports and recreation 
including tennis courts, soccer fields, baseball fields, lawn bowling fields, 
an angling and casting club, a golf course, horseshoe pits, an archery 
range, the polo field, and Kezar Stadium. Golden Gate park formed the first 
Lawn Bowling Club in the United States in 1901, with an Edwardian style 
clubhouse constructed in 1915.[69] Kezar Stadium was built between 1922 
and 1925 in the southeast corner of the park. It hosted various athletic 
competitions and was the home stadium of the San Francisco 49ers of the 
AAFC and NFL from 1946 to 1970. It also hosted the Oakland Raiders of the 
AFL for one season in 1960. The old 59,000-seat stadium was demolished 
in 1989 and replaced with a modern 9,044-seat stadium, which includes a 
replica of the original concrete arch at the entryway. The stadium has 
been used in recent years for soccer, lacrosse, and track and field. The 
stadium also holds the annual city high school football championship, the 
Turkey Bowl. The Turkey Bowl dates back to 1924 and is played each Thanksgiving. 
The game was held at Lowell High School in 2014 because Kezar was closed 
due to renovation of the running track. Galileo High School has the most 
overall wins in the game (16) after breaking Lincoln High School's record 
four-game winning streak in 2009.[70][71] The stadium also hosts the football 
game in the three-part Bruce-Mahoney Trophy competition between Sacred 
Heart Cathedral Preparatory and Saint Ignatius College Preparatory, two 
Catholic high schools in San Francisco, in addition to serving as the home 
field for Sacred Heart Cathedral's football program. The sport of polo 
came to California in 1876, when the California Polo Club was established 
with help of Bay Area native, Captain Nell Mowry.[72] By the late 1800s, 
polo in San Francisco was dominated by the Golden Gate Driving Club and 
the San Francisco Driving Club. In 1906, the Golden Gate Park Stadium was 
built by private subscription from the driving clubs[73] which contained 
both a polo field[74] and a cycling velodrome.[75] Later on, the stadium 
was renamed simply the Polo Field. In the mid 1930s, the City and County 
of San Francisco used PWA and WPA funds to renovate the polo field.[72] 
In 1939, additional WPA funds were used to build polo sheds, replacing 
already-standing horse stables.[73] Polo continued being played through 
the 1940s[76] but by the 1950s polo stopped being played on the Polo Field 
because the sport had largely migrated to other bay area cities where land 
more suitable for polo was available.[74] In 1985 and 1986, polo was brought 
back to the Polo Field in Golden Gate Park for the second[77] and third 
annual San Francisco Grand Prix and Equestrian Festival.[74] Today, polo 
is not regularly played on the Polo Field, but from 2006 to 2010 Polo in 
the Park was hosted annually.[78] The Polo Fields has a history of cycling 
lasting from 1906 to the 21st century. The Polo Fields were originally 
created for track cycling in 1906, as track cycling was a popular sport 
in the early 1900s.[79] Despite a down-surge of popularity in the mid-1900s, 
track cycling has seen a huge rebirth ever since the introduction of more 
track cycling programs in the Olympics in 2003.[80] San Francisco has seen 
a surge in cycling popularity, and groups such as "Friends of the Polo 
Field Cycling Track" have recently formed.[81] The field has an extensive 
history with music and events. Because of the location and size of the 
Polo Fields, various events are commonly held on the field. Historically, 
many major music festivals took place in the park, including the Human 
Be-In, which featured bands like the Grateful Dead and the Jefferson Airplanes.[82] 
More contemporary music festivals such as the Outside Lands and Hardly 
Strictly Bluegrass also take place on or nearby the Polo Fields.[83] One 
of the largest public gatherings in San Francisco took place in the Polo 
Fields—a public Rosary in 1961 with 550,000 people.[84] Public political 
events were also held at the field, such as the anti-Vietnam War rally 
in 1969 and the Tibetan Freedom Concert in 1996.[85] Now in the 21st century, 
the Polo Field is split into two divisions: the inner soccer field, and 
the flat-style cycling velodrome found around the field itself. Today many 
sports are played in the polo fields, including soccer, cross country running, 
and various types of cycling. The cycling track is still alive, with a 
large amount of time-trial races held every cycling season.[86] Recently 
a cyclist in 2013 has set a record in the park by riding a total of 188.5 
miles on the Polo Field velodrome, circling it 279 times for a total of 
10 hours moving.[87] Archery was first organized in Golden Gate Park in 
1881.[12] However, there was not a devoted range specifically for archery 
until around 1933. In 1936, during Franklin D. Roosevelt’s presidency, 
many parts of Golden Gate Park, including the archery range, were improved 
as part of the Works Progress Administration (WPA).[88] With WPA support, 
the archery range was increased in size and the adjacent hill was carved 
to serve as a backdrop for stray arrows. Bales of hay are used as targets 
and are provided by the Golden Gate Joad Archery Club as well as donations 
from other donors.[89] The Golden Gate Park Archery Range is located right 
inside the park off of 47th Street and Fulton Street. It is open whenever 
the park itself is open and is free to use by anyone. There is no staff 
and equipment is not offered to be rented at the range, however there are 
archery stores nearby for rentals and there are multiple groups that offer 
training and lessons. Established in 1870, the Golden Gate Park Nursery 
has remained one of the few places in the park restricted to the public. 
This nursery began with donated plants from around the world and expanded 
over the years with the care of past Golden Gate Park gardeners.[90] The 
nursery has moved around the park thrice; first to where McLaren Lodge 
stands today, then to where Kezar Stadium is currently located and finally 
to its current location of Martin Luther King Jr. Drive.[91] This Nursery 
houses over 800 species of plants, some of which are exclusive to the nursery, 
and are sold to the public on the third Saturday of the month.[92] Every 
week over 3,000 plants are dispersed within the city and park.[4] When 
the park requires repairing or is in need of empty beds filled, the Nursery 
provides its wide variety of plants to fill in the blank spaces. Indoors, 
the plants are set up in neat rows and beds, showing off the nursery’s 
green diversity for the buyers picking. The Golden Gate Park Nursery is 
one of the city’s main green providers and is greatly responsible for the 
city’s plant life. The City of San Francisco has grappled with what to 
do about camps of homeless people living in Golden Gate Park, which have 
been criticized as unsanitary, and "demoralizing" for park users and workers.[93] 
The camps have been described by journalists as full of garbage, broken 
glass, hypodermic needles, and human excrement, and the people in them 
are described as suffering from serious addictions and often behaving aggressively 
with police and park gardeners.[94][95][96] There have been occasional 
incidents of violence against homeless people in the park, including the 
2010 park beating to death of a homeless man and an attack on park visitors 
by dogs owned by a park resident, also in 2010.[97] In the 1990s, then-Mayor 
Willie Brown sought unsuccessfully to borrow the Oakland Police Department's 
helicopters in order to find homeless people's camps.[98] Starting in 1988 
under then-mayor Art Agnos, and continuing under the direction of subsequent 
mayors including Frank Jordan, Willie Brown, and Gavin Newsom, San Francisco 
police have conducted intermittent sweeps of the park aimed at eliminating 
the camps.[99][100] Tactics have included information campaigns designed 
to inform homeless residents about city services available to help them; 
waking sleeping homeless people and making them leave the park; issuing 
citations for infractions and misdemeanors such as camping, trespassing, 
or public intoxication, which carry penalties of $75 to $100;[101] and 
the seizure and removal from the park of homeless people's possessions. 
During the night, police urge people in Golden Gate Park to be careful 
around homeless people. They have been known to become belligerent or protective 
of their 'usual spots' at night. The crackdowns have been criticized by 
anti-poverty activists and civil liberties groups, who say they attack 
only the symptoms of homelessness while ignoring its root causes, and criminalize 
the poor for their poverty while ignoring their property rights and constitutional 
rights.[102][103] In 2006, the American Civil Liberties Union brought a 
lawsuit against the city government on behalf of 10 homeless people, alleging 
property violations by the city during sweeps in Golden Gate Park the year 
before.[104] The tradition of large, free public gatherings in the park 
continues to the present, especially at Hellman Hollow. Originally named 
Speedway Meadow, it was renamed in 2011 in honor of Warren Hellman.[105] 
In 2001, Hellman founded the Hardly Strictly Bluegrass Festival (formerly 
the "Strictly Bluegrass Festival"), a free music festival held in October. 
Hellman Hollow also plays host to a number of large-scale events such as 
the 911 Power to the Peaceful Festival held by musician and filmmaker Michael 
Franti with Guerrilla Management. Since the parks conception, over 5,000 
concerts have been held in the park. A book, titled Five Thousand Concerts 
in the Park lists and describes the park's long history with music.[106] 
At Golden Gate Park is a live recording of the concert given on May 7, 
1969 by the Jefferson Airplane at Golden Gate Park in San Francisco. Charlie 
Chaplin filmed scenes in the park for at least two movies, including A 
Jitney Elopement[107] and In the Park,[108] both from 1915. A scene in 
Orson Welles' The Lady from Shanghai was shot in the Steinhart Aquarium 
in the old California Academy of Sciences building, and the Conservatory 
of Flowers was filmed in Harold and Maude. Dirty Harry scenes were filmed 
in Kezar Stadium.[109] In Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home, a Klingon Bird-of-Prey 
is said to land in the park, but the scene was actually filmed at Will 
Rogers State Historic Park near Los Angeles.[110] A scene from The Pursuit 
of Happyness was shot in the Children's Playground. Scaramouche (1952) 
includes scenes of duels looking west into the fog at Speedway Meadows, 
and interiors in De Young Museum's old period rooms. In The Lineup (1958), 
scenes were shot inside the Steinhart Aquarium.[111] The Bugs Bunny cartoon 
Bushy Hare (1950): Bugs pops up in Golden Gate Park with Lloyd Lake Portals 
to the Past, the remains of the A.E. Towne mansion from the 1906 Earthquake. 
In the TV Series Eli Stone, in the episode "Waiting for that Day", some 
citizens of San Francisco seek refuge in the park during a 6.8 earthquake. 
They later witness the destruction of the Golden Gate Bridge from the park, 
though in reality, the bridge isn't visible from the park. The opening 
scene of the 1978 version of Invasion of the Bodysnatchers was filmed on 
the outskirts of Golden Gate Park. The film "The Diary Of A Teenage Girl" 
filmed its opening scene in Golden Gate Park.[112] In the film Time After 
Time, Malcolm McDowell can be seen exiting the park near 6th avenue in 
the Richmond District.[113] The film, Adventures of Robin Hood (1938) features 
