The Golden State Warriors are an American professional basketball team 
based in Oakland, California. The Warriors compete in the National Basketball 
Association (NBA) as a member club of the league's Western Conference Pacific 
Division. The team was established in 1946 as the Philadelphia Warriors 
based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, a founding member of the Basketball 
Association of America (BAA). In 1962, the franchise relocated to the San 
Francisco Bay Area and was renamed the San Francisco Warriors. In 1971, 
the team changed its geographic moniker to Golden State, California's state 
nickname.[3][b] Since 1972, the team's home court has been the Oracle Arena 
in Oakland. The team is nicknamed the "Dubs."[4][5] The Warriors have reached 
eight NBA Finals, winning four NBA championships in 1947,[c] 1956, 1975 
and most recently in 2015 when they defeated the Cleveland Cavaliers. Golden 
State's four NBA championships are the fifth most in history behind only 
the Boston Celtics (17), Los Angeles Lakers (16), Chicago Bulls (6) and 
San Antonio Spurs (5). Wilt Chamberlain and Stephen Curry have both been 
named the NBA's Most Valuable Player while playing for the Warriors, for 
a total of three MVP awards. Golden State holds the NBA record for best 
regular season with 73–9 and most combined wins in a season (regular season 
and postseason) with 88 wins. The Warriors were founded in 1946 as the 
Philadelphia Warriors, a charter member of the Basketball Association of 
America. They were owned by Peter A. Tyrrell, who also owned the Philadelphia 
Rockets of the American Hockey League.[6] Tyrrell hired Eddie Gottlieb, 
a longtime basketball promoter in the Philadelphia area, as coach and general 
manager.[7] The owners named the team after the Philadelphia Warriors, 
an old basketball team who played in the American Basketball League in 
1925.[8] Led by early scoring sensation Joe Fulks, the team won the championship 
in the league's inaugural 1946–47 season by defeating the Chicago Stags, 
four games to one. The NBA, which was created by a 1949 merger, officially 
recognizes that as its own first championship.[c] Gottlieb bought the team 
in 1951. The Warriors won its other championship in Philadelphia in the 
1955–56 season, defeating the Fort Wayne Pistons four games to one. The 
Warrior stars of this era were future Hall of Famers Paul Arizin, Tom Gola 
and Neil Johnston. In 1959, the team signed draft pick Wilt Chamberlain. 
Known as "Wilt the Stilt", he led the team in scoring six times, quickly 
began shattering NBA scoring records and changed the NBA style of play 
forever. On March 2, 1962, in a Warrior "home" game played on a neutral 
court in Hershey, Pennsylvania, Chamberlain scored 100 points against the 
New York Knicks, a single-game record the NBA ranks among its finest moments.[9] 
In 1962, Franklin Mieuli purchased the majority shares of the team and 
relocated the franchise to the San Francisco Bay Area, renaming them the 
San Francisco Warriors. The Warriors played most of their home games at 
the Cow Palace in Daly City (the facility lies just south of the San Francisco 
city limits) from 1962 to 1964 and the San Francisco Civic Auditorium from 
1964 to 1966, though occasionally playing home games in nearby cities such 
as Oakland and San Jose. Prior to the 1963–64 NBA season, the Warriors 
drafted big man Nate Thurmond to go along with Chamberlain. The Warriors 
won the Western Division crown that season, but lost the 1964 NBA Finals 
to the Boston Celtics, four games to one. In the 1964–65 season, the Warriors 
traded Chamberlain to the Philadelphia 76ers for Connie Dierking, Lee Shaffer, 
Paul Neumann and $150,000 and won only 17 games. In 1965, they drafted 
Rick Barry in the first round who went on to become NBA Rookie of the Year 
that season and then led the Warriors to the NBA finals in the 1966–67 
season, losing (four games to two) to Chamberlain's new team that had replaced 
the Warriors in Philadelphia, the 76ers. Angered by management's failure 
to pay him certain incentive bonuses he felt were due him, Barry sat out 
the 1967–68 season and signed with the Oakland Oaks of the rival American 
Basketball Association for the following year, but after four seasons in 
the ABA rejoined the Warriors in 1972. During Barry's absence, the Warriors 
were no longer title contenders, and the mantle of leadership fell to Thurmond, 
Jeff Mullins and Rudy LaRusso. They began scheduling more home games in 
Oakland with the opening of the Oakland Coliseum Arena in 1966 and the 
1970–71 season would be the team's last as the San Francisco Warriors. 
The franchise adopted its brand name Golden State Warriors prior to the 
1971–72 season, in order to suggest that the team represented the entire 
state of California.[3][b] Almost all home games were played in Oakland 
that season; six were played in San Diego, but none in San Francisco or 
Daly City. Oakland Arena became the team's exclusive home court in 1972. 
The Warriors made the playoffs from 1971 to 1977 except in 1974, and won 
their first NBA championship on the West Coast in 1974–75. In what many 
consider the biggest upset in NBA history, Golden State not only defeated 
the heavily favored Washington Bullets but humiliated them in a four-game 
sweep. That team was coached by former Warrior Al Attles, and led on the 
court by Rick Barry and Jamaal Wilkes. Barry was named MVP of the finals.[10] 
At 59-23, the Warriors had the league's best record during the 1975–76 
season. They were upset, however, by the 42-40 Phoenix Suns in seven games 
in the Western Conference Finals. Because of the loss of key players such 
as Barry, Wilkes and Thurmond to trades and retirements, the Warriors struggled 
to put a competitive team on the court from 1978 to 1987 after being one 
of the NBA's dominant teams in the 1960s and most of the 1970s. Through 
the NBA draft, however, they acquired some players such as high-scoring 
forward Purvis Short (1978), former Purdue center Joe Barry Carroll (1980) 
and center Robert Parish (1976), who was traded to the Boston Celtics in 
1980 along with the draft pick that would become Kevin McHale for the pick 
used to draft Carroll. In 1983, the Warriors matched the New York Knicks' 
offer for free-agent Bernard King, but, unable to pay his high salary, 
quickly traded him to the Knicks for guard Micheal Ray Richardson, whom 
they soon shipped to New Jersey in exchange for former Georgetown Hoya 
point guard Eric "Sleepy" Floyd, and journeyman forward Mickey Johnson. 
(Floyd once scored 29 points for the Warriors in the fourth quarter of 
a playoff game against the Lakers, though he was later traded to the Houston 
Rockets). The departure of these players for various reasons symbolized 
the franchise's futility during this period, as head coach Attles moved 
up to the front office as general manager in 1980 and the team made several 
coaching changes. New owners Jim Fitzgerald and Dan Finane finally managed 
to return the team to respectability by hiring former Cleveland Cavaliers 
head coach George Karl as head coach in 1986 after selecting St. John's 
small forward Chris Mullin in the 1985 NBA draft. After a subpar stretch 
in the late 1970s and early 1980s, the team had a brief resurgence under 
coach Karl, culminating in a 1987 Western Conference Semifinal match against 
Magic Johnson and the Los Angeles Lakers which is still shown on TV in 
the NBA's Greatest Games series. In the game, Warriors' All-Star point 
guard Sleepy Floyd's performance in the second half still stands as the 
NBA playoff record for points scored in a quarter (29) and in a half (39). 
His six consecutive field goals in the fourth quarter led to a 51-point 
finish for him and a victory for the Warriors. The "Sleepy Floyd game" 
was a catalyst for increased interest in the NBA in the Bay Area which 
was furthered by new coach Don Nelson, who engineered another successful 
string of wins in the late 1980s and early 1990s with the high-scoring 
trio of point guard Tim Hardaway, guard Mitch Richmond and forward Chris 
Mullin (collectively known as "Run TMC" after the rap group Run-D.M.C.). 
But "Run TMC" stayed together for only two seasons (winning only one playoff 
series), when coach Nelson, in a move to get a promising young front-court 
player to complement his run-and-gun system, sent Richmond to the Sacramento 
Kings for rookie power forward Billy Owens. Nelson had been brought to 
the Warriors from the Milwaukee Bucks by Jim Fitzgerald, who along with 
Dan Finnane owned the team between 1986 and 1995. In 1993–94, with first-round 
draft pick and Rookie of the Year power forward Chris Webber playing alongside 
off-guard Latrell Sprewell, the Warriors made the playoffs. At the start 
of the next season, however, a rift formed between Webber and Sprewell 
on the one hand and Nelson on the other. All three soon left the team, 
and the organization went into a tailspin. 1994–95 was the first season 
under new team owner Chris Cohan, who had bought out Fitzgerald and Finnane. 
The Warriors selected power forward prospect Joe Smith as their first overall 
draft pick in 1995 and hired Rick Adelman as the new head coach. They sent 
Tim Hardaway and Chris Gatling to the Miami Heat for Kevin Willis and Bimbo 
Coles midway through the 1995–96 season, and ended up with a 36–46 record, 
three wins short of making the playoffs. While their home court, the Oakland 
Coliseum Arena, was being extensively renovated, the 1996–97 Warriors played 
their home games in the San Jose Arena and struggled to a 30–52 finish.[11] 
Longtime Seton Hall college coach P. J. Carlesimo, who had been recently 
fired by the Portland Trail Blazers, replaced Adelman as head coach for 
1997–98. Sprewell was suspended for the remainder of the 1997–98 season 
for losing his temper and choking Carlesimo during a team practice in December, 
generating the glaring newspaper headline "WARRIORS HIT ROCK BOTTOM" and 
the declaration by GM Garry St. Jean that Sprewell would never play for 
the Warriors again. He would not play in the NBA again until he was dealt 
in January 1999 to the New York Knicks for John Starks, Chris Mills and 
Terry Cummings. St. Jean had become the new Warriors' GM in July 1997; 
he and his predecessor Dave Twardzik received much of the blame for the 
Warriors' struggles early in Cohan's turbulent tenure as owner in addition 
to Cohan himself.[12] St. Jean brought in players such as Terry Cummings, 
John Starks and Mookie Blaylock who were well past their primes. Twardzik 
drafted several flops, such as Todd Fuller (while Kobe Bryant was still 
available as well as Steve Nash and Jermaine O'Neal) and Steve Logan (who 
never played an NBA game). In the following draft, the team selected Adonal 
Foyle while Tracy McGrady was still available. St. Jean did, however, draft 
future two-time NBA slam dunk champion off-guard Jason Richardson (from 
Michigan State), a Warriors' star scorer through the 2006–07 season. For 
a few years, with rising stars Richardson, small forward Antawn Jamison 
and point guard Gilbert Arenas leading the team, the Warriors seemed like 
a team on the rise; but the young Warriors did not have enough in the competitive 
Western Conference to make the playoffs. After the 2002–03 season, St. 
Jean's earlier mistakes of committing money to players like Danny Fortson, 
Adonal Foyle and Erick Dampier were painfully felt by Warriors' fans when 
the team was unable to re-sign Arenas despite his desire to stay in the 
Bay Area. A new rule was implemented in response to second-round draft 
picks who quickly become superstars. Chris Mullin succeeded St. Jean with 
the title of Executive Vice President of Basketball Operations in 2004. 
He hoped to build a winning team around Jason Richardson, Mike Dunleavy 
Jr and Troy Murphy, and drafted 7-foot center Andris Biedriņš from Latvia 
(11th overall). At the 2005 trading deadline, he bolstered to the team 
with the acquisition of point guard Baron Davis, bringing to the team its 
first superstar since Mullin himself. The Warriors enjoyed a great start 
to the 2005–06 season, entering the new year with a plus .500 winning percentage 
for the first time since 1994, but managed to win only 13 more games through 
the end of March due to injuries. Davis often found himself at odds with 
new head coach Mike Montgomery (used to dealing with college players in 
his long tenure at Stanford) and failed to remain healthy, playing in just 
54 games. On April 5, 2006, the Warriors were officially eliminated from 
playoff contention in a 114–109 overtime loss to the Hornets, extending 
their playoff drought to 12 seasons. Entering the 2006–07 season, the Warriors 
held the active record (12) for the most consecutive seasons without a 
playoff appearance (see Active NBA non-playoff appearance streaks). During 
the 2006 off-season, Golden State announced that it had bought out the 
remaining two years of coach Montgomery's contract and hired previous Golden 
State and former Dallas Mavericks coach Don Nelson to take over for him. 
During training camp, small forward Matt Barnes established himself in 
the rotation. On January 17, 2007, the Warriors traded the disappointing 
Murphy and Dunleavy with promising young power forward Ike Diogu and Keith 
McLeod to the Indiana Pacers for forward Al Harrington, forward/guard Stephen 
Jackson, guard Šarūnas Jasikevičius and forward Josh Powell.[13] This trade 
allowed the Warriors to "run and gun" their way to the playoffs with a 
more athletic and talented team. On March 4, 2007, the Warriors suffered 
a 106–107 loss in Washington, the Wizards handing them their 6th straight 
loss when former Warrior Arenas hit a technical free throw with less than 
one second remaining after Nelson had protested a controversial call with 
the Warriors ahead by a slim margin. The loss dropped them to 26–35. March 
4 marked the turning point for the Warriors. The Warriors closed out the 
regular season (42–40) at 16–5 in their last 21 games.[14] "We Believe" 
became the Warriors' slogan for the last two months of the season and the 
playoffs.[15] Led by a healthy Baron Davis, an ever-improving Jason Richardson 
and young future star off-guard Monta Ellis as well as center Biedriņš, 
the Warriors immediately dashed the highly favored top-seed Dallas Mavericks' 
expectations of a short and easy series win with a Game 1 victory in Dallas 
thanks to Davis' frantic style of play. The Mavericks came back to win 
Game 2 easily to tie the series at a game apiece, but the Warriors won 
both Games 3 & 4 with a huge lift from the home crowd at Oracle Arena. 
A close Game 5 saw the Mavericks eke out a 118–112 victory with a last-minute 
surge led by superstar forward Dirk Nowitzki to send the series back to 
California at 3-2. In Game 6, the Warriors engineered a third-quarter 18–0 
run to eliminate the Mavericks and become the NBA's first No. 8 seed to 
beat a No. 1 seed in a seven-game series (and the first NBA No. 8 seed 
to beat the top seed since 1999 when the New York Knicks eliminated the 
Miami Heat). It was an upset in name only, given the fact that the Warriors 
had swept the Mavericks in the regular season series. The Warriors went 
on to play the Utah Jazz in the second round of the 2006–07 playoffs, where 
they dropped two close games at EnergySolutions Arena to open the series. 
The series then shifted to the Oracle Arena, where the Warriors won Game 
3 in a convincing blowout. Davis scored 32 points and electrified the crowd 
with a monster dunk on Jazz forward Andrei Kirilenko late in the fourth 
quarter, but they lost Game 4 at home, their first loss in Oakland in well 
over a month and the Jazz closed them out in Game 5 in Salt Lake City. 
The Warriors faced early difficulties in their attempt to return to the 
playoffs. Richardson was traded to the Charlotte Bobcats for rookie Brandan 
Wright. To make things even worse, Jackson was suspended for seven games 
over a firearm incident. They opened the 2007–08 season with six straight 
losses, but Ellis' rise, Davis' solid injury-free season (21.6 points, 
8 assists, 4.6 rebounds per game),[16] and an overall improvement in team 
chemistry brought them back to playoff contention; but in the end the Warriors 
failed to make the playoffs despite a 48–34 season, which is the best record 
in NBA history for a non-playoff team since the NBA playoffs had expanded 
to eight teams per conference. The Western Conference was very strong that 
season; every playoff team won 50 games, leaving the Warriors two games 
out of the last playoff spot. The Warriors sold out nearly every home game 
during the season averaging 19,631 per game, the highest in team history. 
In the offseason, Baron Davis opted to return to his home town and sign 
with the Los Angeles Clippers. With the 14th pick of the 2008 NBA draft, 
the Warriors selected and signed Anthony Randolph out of LSU. To compensate 
for the loss of Davis, the Warriors signed free agents Corey Maggette and 
Ronny Turiaf and re-signed Ellis and Andris Biedriņš to long-term contracts. 
The Warriors had a disappointing 2008–2009 season, finishing 29–53. Ellis 
was injured in a moped accident, and suspended for 30 games for riding 
the vehicle against the terms of his contract, depriving the Warriors of 
their top player. They traded disenchanted forward Al Harrington to the 
New York Knicks for guard Jamal Crawford, and were undone by injuries and 
the minimal experience of their young players such as Anthony Morrow and 
Brandan Wright. Coach Nelson often had to make adjustments to the starting 
lineups since many of the original starters missed games due to injuries. 
Despite the team's losing record, the Warriors were hard to beat when they 
had a healthy lineup and a strong bench. With leadership and improvement 
in their young players, they were sometimes able to defeat powerhouse teams 
such as the Boston Celtics, 99-89. During the 2009 off-season, Warrior 
ownership declined to renew the contract of general manager Mullin. Larry 
Riley, Nelson's longtime assistant coach,[17] was promoted in his place 
and drafted Stephen Curry as an outstanding 7th lottery pick, but dubiously 
traded Jamal Crawford to the Atlanta Hawks for Acie Law and Speedy Claxton. 
The Warriors had another injury-prone year in 2009–10.[18] as they were 
consistently unable to field their ideal starting lineup. In November, 
a malcontented Stephen Jackson and seldom-used Acie Law were traded to 
the Charlotte Bobcats for Raja Bell (out for the season with an injury) 
and Vladimir Radmanovic. Four days later, they signed center Chris Hunter. 
Starting in January 2010, they issued multiple 10-day contracts, most notably 
to power forward Anthony Tolliver from the Idaho Stampede. Due to their 
multiple injuries, they were granted an exception allowing them to sign 
Reggie Williams from the Sioux Falls Skyforce to a 10-day contract on March 
2, making it their fifth D-League call-up that season, tying an NBA record. 
They eventually waived the injured Bell to sign Williams for the rest of 
the year, and finished the season 26–56, fourth in the Pacific Division. 
On June 24, the Warriors selected Ekpe Udoh, a power forward from Baylor, 
as the 6th pick of the 2010 NBA draft. They also introduced a modernized 
version of their "The City" logo depicting the new eastern span of the 
San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge, and switched to a simplified color scheme 
of royal blue and gold. They also introduced new uniforms reminiscent of 
the 1969–71 "The City" uniforms. The Warriors made an offseason trade that 
sent Turiaf, Randolph and Kelenna Azubuike to the New York Knicks in return 
for star high-scoring power forward David Lee via a sign-and-trade. Lee 
agreed to a six-year, $80 million deal, on a framework contingent on the 
decision of superstar forward LeBron James to leave the Cleveland Cavaliers 
to sign with the Miami Heat that same day. Following Morrow's departure 
after he signed the New Jersey Nets' offer sheet, the Warriors signed Dorell 
Wright, formerly with the Miami Heat, to a three-year, $11 million deal. 
On July 15, owner Chris Cohan sold the Warriors to Peter Guber of Mandalay 
Entertainment and his partner Joe Lacob for a then-record $450 million.[19] 
On November 15, the Warriors announced the new 19-person ownership group 
composed of Joe Lacob, Peter Guber, Vivek Ranadivé, Erika Glazer, Fred 
Harman, Bob Piccinini, Larry Bowman, Danny German, Marty Glick, Chad Hurley, 
Craig R. Johnson, Bruce Karsh, Jeffrey A. Miller, Paul Schaeffer, David 
Scially, Nick Swinmurn, Harry Tsao, John Walecka and Dennis Wong.[20] The 
Warriors continued their signing spree by adding Harvard guard Jeremy Lin 
to their roster with a one-year partially guaranteed contract containing 
a second-year team option, the first Taiwanese-American player in NBA history. 
Louis Amundson was then added for little under $5 million in mid-September. 
Keith Smart was hired as head coach that same month after Nelson had resigned 
before the start of training camp. In February 2011, the Warriors traded 
Brandan Wright and Dan Gadzuric for Troy Murphy and a 2011 second-round 
pick. On February 27, Murphy and the Warriors reached a buyout agreement 
and he was waived.[21][22] During a steady season without making any real 
ground in the playoff race, the Warriors broke franchise records with 21 
made 3's in a win against the Orlando Magic. In April 2011, Dorell Wright 
made a franchise record of 184 3's in a season in a home win versus Los 
Angeles Lakers, surpassing Richardson's 183 in 2005–06. He then broke another 
NBA record, as the first player to have scored more points in his seventh 
season than in all his first six seasons combined in a win against the 
Portland Trail Blazers. He ended the season with the most three-pointers 
made in the NBA that season with 194, as well as the most 3s attempted 
with 516, both of which set new Warrior franchise records. The Warriors 
failed to make the playoffs after a 36-win season in 2010–11, and coach 
Smart was dismissed on April 27 due to the change in ownership.[23] 17-year 
NBA veteran and former ABC and ESPN commentator Mark Jackson replaced him 
as head coach on June 6.[24] On December 19, they traded Amundson to the 
Indiana Pacers for small forward Brandon Rush. The Warriors did not improve 
in the 2011–12 NBA season under coach Jackson, finishing the lockout-shorted 
season with a 23–43 record, 13th in the conference. The team suffered several 
injuries to key players, and due to the lockout, Jackson could not establish 
his system in training camp. They then entered into another chaotic rebuilding 
phase. Team leader Monta Ellis was traded in mid-March 2012, along with 
Kwame Brown and Ekpe Udoh, to the Milwaukee Bucks for center Andrew Bogut 
(out injured for the season) and former Warrior small forward Stephen Jackson, 
who without playing a game for the Warriors was quickly traded to the San 
Antonio Spurs for Richard Jefferson and a conditional first-round pick 
on March 15. These moves saw the rise of Stephen Curry and David Lee to 
team co-captains, and saw off-guard Klay Thompson, the 11th overall pick 
of the 2011 NBA draft, move into a starting role. On July 11, they acquired 
point guard Jarrett Jack from the New Orleans Hornets in a three-team trade 
also including the Philadelphia 76ers, who received Dorell Wright from 
Golden State. On August 1, they signed forward Carl Landry on the termination 
of his one-year contract with the Hornets. In the 2012 NBA draft, they 
selected small forward Harrison Barnes with the 7th overall pick, center 
Festus Ezeli with the 30th pick, small forward Draymond Green 35th overall, 
and 7-foot 1-inch center Ognjen Kuzmic 52nd overall. In early November, 
swingman Rush was lost for the year with a torn ACL after falling awkwardly 
on the court early in the second game of the season, and less than a month 
later the team announced that Bogut was out indefinitely with a foot injury 
that was more serious than originally reported. Bogut did not return to 
regular play until late in the season. Coming out of this maelstrom of 
trades and injuries with a team starting two rookies (Barnes and Ezeli), 
the Warriors had one of their best starts in decades, earning their 20th 
win before hitting the 30-game mark for the first time since 1992. The 
Warriors also achieved a milestone by completing their first ever 6–1 road 
trip in franchise history, including a 97–95 win over the defending champion 
Heat in Miami. On April 9, 2013, with a win over the Minnesota Timberwolves, 
the Warriors clinched the playoffs for the second time in 19 years and 
the first time since the 2006–2007 "we believe" Warriors. This time, the 
local battlecry was "we belong". The team finished the season with a record 
of 47–35, earning the sixth seed in the Western Conference, and defeated 
the Denver Nuggets in the first round of the playoffs by winning four out 
of six games. They lost in the second round to the San Antonio Spurs, four 
games to two. This was the first playoff experience for all of the starters 
of this group except for Andrew Bogut.[25] Other highlights of the season 
included Stephen Curry's 272 three-point baskets to set an NBA single-season 
record, giving him the nickname "baby-faced assassin", and the naming of 
forward David Lee to the 2013 NBA All-Star Game as a reserve, ending the 
team's 16-year drought without an All Star selection, dating back to Latrell 
Sprewell in the 1997 season. Curry and Klay Thompson, dubbed the "Splash 
Brothers"[26] by team employee Brian Witt [27] for their backcourt shooting 
prowess, combined for 483 three-pointers during the season, easily besting 
the prior record of 435 set by the Orlando Magic's Nick Anderson and Dennis 
Scott in 1995–96. With their lone selection in the 2013 NBA draft, the 
Warriors made 22-year-old Serbian combo-guard Nemanja Nedovic the 30th 
and final pick of the first round.[28] In early July 2013, Golden State 
signed former Denver Nuggets swingman and free agent Andre Iguodala to 
a four-year, $48 million deal. To make room under their salary cap, the 
Warriors traded Richard Jefferson, Andris Biedrins and Brandon Rush, along 
with multiple draft picks, including their 2014 and 2017 first-round picks, 
to the Utah Jazz.[29] The Warriors lost free-agent guard Jarrett Jack, 
who departed for the Cleveland Cavaliers, and free agent power forward 
Carl Landry, who went to the Sacramento Kings. To help fill the void left 
by Landry, the Warriors signed forward-center Marreese Speights to a three-year, 
$10 million contract.[30] The team also signed one-year deals with veteran 
center Jermaine O'Neal ($2 million) and point guard Toney Douglas ($1.6 
million).[31] On August 21, the Warriors signed 7 ft 1 in Serbian center 
Ognjen Kuzmic, who had been playing in Europe since his selection in the 
2012 NBA draft, to a guaranteed two-year deal.[32][33][34] The Warriors 
began the 2013–14 season showing flashes of brilliance and also plenty 
of lapses. In early December their record was 12–9, as compared to 17–4 
the year before. One challenging factor was a tough starting schedule that 
saw them play 14 of their first 22 games on the road, including 10 games 
against teams holding playoff spots in the standings. A stream of injuries 
also held the team back, including injuries to Festus Ezeli (off-season 
surgical repair to repair the right knee, out for the season), Toney Douglas 
(left tibia stress reaction, out nearly a month from mid-November to December), 
and Jermaine O'Neal (right wrist injury and surgery, out from mid-November 
to early February). Stephen Curry and Harrison Barnes were also out for 
at least four games before the all-star break, each with minor injuries. 
Most prominently of all, Iguodala suffered a hamstring pull in late November 
that kept him out for over a month, during which time the Warriors' performance 
suffered significantly on both the defensive and offensive ends of the 
court, and the team posted a losing 5–7 record while revealing a lack of 
depth on their bench. With Iguodala back in the lineup, the Warriors went 
on a 10-game winning streak, which included six consecutive wins on a single 
road trip, tying an NBA record. The winning streak was the longest for 
the franchise since the 1975 championship year, and just one short of the 
team record of 11 consecutive wins, set in the 1971–72 season. To strengthen 
their underperforming bench, the Warriors made a three-team trade on January 
15, sending Douglas to the Miami Heat and picking up guards Jordan Crawford 
and MarShon Brooks from the Boston Celtics[35] and then, a day before the 
trade deadline, trading Kent Bazemore and Brooks to the Los Angeles Lakers 
in exchange for veteran point guard Steve Blake.[36] Thanks in part to 
the improved effectiveness of their backup squad, boosted by the additions 
of Blake and Crawford and the play of 35-year-old Jermaine O'Neal (who 
returned sooner than expected from wrist surgery), the Warriors were one 
of the winningest teams in the NBA after the all-star break. Nonetheless, 
and despite several victories over top contenders, the team displayed a 
pattern of losing games to inferior teams even at their home arena. On 
April 11, in a 112–95 stomping of the Los Angeles Lakers at the Staples 
Center, the Warriors clinched a playoff berth in consecutive seasons for 
the first time since 1991 and 1992. However, just one day earlier in a 
loss against the Portland Trail Blazers, Andrew Bogut suffered a cracked 
rib that would keep him out of the post-season, a big blow to the sixth-seed 
Warriors' playoff hopes. The Warriors ended the season 51–31, winning more 
than 50 games for only the fourth time in franchise history, finishing 
20 games over .500 for the first time in 22 years, and tying the 1991–92 
squad for the franchise's all-time mark of 24 wins on the road. Even without 
Bogut, in the first round of the playoffs the Warriors battled the third-seed 
Los Angeles Clippers to a seventh and deciding game, which the Warriors 
lost, bringing their 2013–14 season to an end. It was season of many thrilling 
moments in which the Warriors' played in 17 regular-season games decided 
by 2 points or less, 6 games with winning shots in the final 3 seconds, 
and 7 comeback wins in which the Warriors had been behind by 15 points 
or more.[37] In other noteworthy occurrences for the season, Curry was 
named to the starting lineup for the 2014 NBA All-Star Game. For Curry, 
the only Warrior named to the team, this was his first all-star appearance 
in five seasons as an NBA player. Curry hit another notable milestone in 
posting 4 triple-doubles for the season, tying a franchise record unequaled 
since Wilt Chamberlain in 1963–64. Curry also averaged career-bests in 
points and assists; averaging 24.0 points and 8.5 assists in the season. 
Curry and Klay Thompson continued to set league records in three-point 
shooting. On February 7, in a 102–87 win over the Chicago Bulls, the backcourt 
duo became the first teammates to each make a three-pointer in 30 consecutive 
games.[38] Curry, who finished the season with 261 threes, set an individual 
record for most three-pointers in a span of two seasons with 533, surpassing 
the previous mark of 478 set by Seattle Supersonic Ray Allen in 2004–05 
and 2005–06. Together, Thompson and Curry combined for 484 threes on the 
year, besting by one the NBA record they had set the year before. Even 
as the team rolled towards the post-season, signs emerged of trouble in 
the Warriors' front office. On March 25, the team reassigned assistant 
coach Brian Scalabrine to the team's NBA Development League Affiliate in 
Santa Cruz because of what head coach Mark Jackson called a "difference 
in philosophies"[39] and what unnamed league sources cited by Yahoo! Sports 
called "an increasingly dysfunctional atmosphere" on the Warriors' coaching 
staff.[40] Fewer than two weeks later, assistant coach Darren Erman was 
fired for secretly recording conversations between coaches, staff and players.[41] 
During the post season, rumors persisted in the press that Mark Jackson's 
job as head coach was in jeopardy, leading the players to make a unanimous 
declaration of support for Jackson's return only minutes after the Warriors' 
first-round, game seven playoff loss to the Clippers.[42] Nonetheless, 
three days later, on May 6, the team announced the firing of Mark Jackson 
as head coach.[43] In his three-season tenure as head coach, Jackson compiled 
a 121-109 (.526) record, overseeing a terrific turnaround. When Jackson 
took the helm in 2011, the franchise had made the playoffs only one time 
over the prior 17 seasons, averaging 30.2 wins per season during that period.[44] 
Jackson, 49, became just the third head coach in franchise history to lead 
a team to at least 50 wins in a season, joining Don Nelson and Alvin Attles, 
who both hit the mark twice with the Warriors. With 121 wins overall, Jackson 
ranks fourth on the franchise's all-time wins list, trailing Attles (557), 
Nelson (422) and Eddie Gottlieb (263).[45] On May 14, 2014, the Golden 
State Warriors named Steve Kerr the team's head coach in a reported $25 
million deal over five years.[46] It was a first-time head-coaching position 
for Kerr, 48, a five-time NBA champion point guard who holds the all-time 
career record for accuracy in three-point shooting (.454). Kerr formerly 
served as president and general manager for the Phoenix Suns basketball 
team (2007 to 2010), and had most recently been working as an NBA broadcast 
analyst for Turner Network Television (TNT). The Warriors completed the 
regular season with a record of 67-15, the best in the league and the most 
wins in franchise history.[47] The Warriors also finished with a home record 
of 39–2, the second best in NBA history. They were first in defensive efficiency 
for the season and second in offensive efficiency, barely missing the mark 
that the Julius Erving led Sixers achieved by being first in both offensive 
and defensive efficiency. On May 4, Stephen Curry was named the 2014–15 
NBA Most Valuable Player, the first Warrior to do so since Wilt Chamberlain 
in 1960. In the first round of the playoffs, they swept the New Orleans 
Pelicans, defeated Memphis Grizzlies in the second round in six games and 
defeated Houston Rockets in five games of the Western Conference Finals. 
The Warriors advanced to their first NBA Finals since 1975, where they 
defeated the Cleveland Cavaliers in six games to win their fourth NBA title, 
and their first in 40 years. Andre Iguodala was named Finals MVP.[48] Other 
highlights of the season included Stephen Curry breaking his own record 
for three-pointers made in a single season with 286. He and Klay Thompson 
made a combined 525 three-pointers, the most by a duo in NBA history. In 
the postseason, Curry shattered Reggie Miller's record of 58 made three-pointers 
in a single postseason with 98. On January 23, 2015, Klay Thompson broke 
an NBA record for points in a quarter with 37 in the third. Curry was also 
the leader in the voting polls for the 2015 NBA All-Star Game, won the 
2014–15 NBA Most Valuable Player award and the 2015 ESPYs Best Male Athlete 
award. The Warriors began the season by winning their first 24 games, eclipsing 
the previous best start in NBA history, set by the 1993–94 Houston Rockets 
and the 1948–49 Washington Capitols at 15–0.[49][50] The Warriors surpassed 
the 1969–70 New York Knicks for the best road start in NBA history at 14–0, 
which is also the joint-third longest road win streak.[51] Their record-setting 
start ended when they were defeated by the Milwaukee Bucks on December 
12, 2015.[52] The Warriors broke a 131-year-old record of 20–0 set by the 
1884 St. Louis Maroons baseball team, to claim the best start to a season 
in all of the major professional sports in America. Golden State also won 
28 consecutive regular-season games dating back to the 2014–15 season, 
eclipsing the 2012–13 Miami Heat for the second longest winning streak 
in NBA history.[50] The team set an NBA record 54-straight regular season 
home game winning streak, which spanned from January 31, 2015 to March 
29, 2016. The previous record of 44 was held by the 1995–96 Chicago Bulls 
team led by Michael Jordan.[53] Stephen Curry, Draymond Green and Klay 
Thompson were all named to the All-Star Game, the first time the Warriors 
have had three All-Stars since 1976. Green broke the Golden State franchise 
record of nine triple-doubles in a season; he currently has thirteen. Curry 
has broken numerous three-point records this season, including his own 
NBA record for made three-pointers in a season of 286; he finished the 
season with 402 three pointers. He has made a three-pointer in 151 consecutive 
games, which broke the NBA record of 127 set by Kyle Korver in 2014. On 
February 27, 2016, Curry also tied the NBA record of twelve three-pointers 
made in a single game, jointly holding it with Donyell Marshall and Kobe 
Bryant.[54] On April 13, 2016, Golden State set the record for most wins 
in a single season, beating Memphis, and finishing 73-9.[55] On May 10, 
2016, Stephen Curry was named the NBA's Most Valuable Player (MVP) for 
the second straight season. Curry is the 11th player to win back-to-back 
MVP honors and became the first player in NBA history to win the MVP award 
by unanimous vote, winning all 131 first-place votes.[56] The Golden State 
Warriors went to their second consecutive appearance in the finals with 
a rematch against the Cleveland Cavaliers.[57] The Warriors went to a 3-1 
advantage but, the Cavaliers made a comeback to tie the series at 3 wins 
apiece.[58] In Game 7 the Golden State Warriors lost on their homecourt.[59] 
On July 4, 2016, Kevin Durant announced he would leave the Oklahoma City 
Thunder in order to sign a 2-year contract with the Golden State Warriors.[60] 
On July 7, Durant signed his contract, which gave the Warriors a fourth 
All-NBA player on their team.[61] The Durant signing made the Warriors 
the prohibitive favorites to win the NBA championship, according to oddsmakers.[62] 
In April 2014, the Warriors began the purchase process for a 12-acre site 
in Mission Bay, San Francisco, to hold a new 18,000-seat arena which they 
hope to have ready for the 2018–19 NBA season,[63] with construction to 
begin in early 2016.[64] The sale was finalized in October 2015.[65] The 
location was selected after an original proposal to construct the arena 
on Piers 30 and 32, just south of the Bay Bridge, met with vocal opposition 
due to concerns about traffic, environmental impacts and obstruction of 
views.[66] The new location, which still faces some vocal opposition in 
San Francisco, apparently eliminates the need for any voter approval, which 
would have been required with the original site.[67] Some type of waterfront 
park is planned across from the projected arena, which will be located 
at an already-existing Muni T-Third stop. The Central Subway, planned to 
open in 2018, may provide a direct connection between the new site and 
the downtown Powell Street Muni/BART station. The Golden State Warriors 
may consider a concurrent name change, possibly returning to their former 
name of San Francisco Warriors. Input from fans will be sought before making 
any official name change.[68] On January 27, 2016, it was announced that 
the Warriors' new arena would be called Chase Center as part of an agreement 
with JP Morgan Chase.[69] Bob Fitzgerald has done television play-by-play, 
and former Warrior guard Jim Barnett has done color commentary for the 
Warriors for more than 15 years, currently on Comcast SportsNet Bay Area, 
where they telecast more than 70 Warrior games a year.[70] They also host 
Roundtable Live, a half-hour pre-game show leading up to the broadcast 
of select Golden State home games. Fitzgerald is in his 16th season as 
the Warriors' play-by-play man, while Barnett is in his 27th season as 
color man. Greg Papa and Garry St. Jean are the third and fourth members 
of the telecast team, specializing in in-game, halftime and post-game analysis, 
while Rosalyn Gold-Onwude serves as the sideline reporter. Tim Roye has 
done the radio play-by-play for Warrior games since 1995. He is joined 
in the booth by former Warriors forward Tom Tolbert for home games only. 
On August 25, 2016 the Warriors announced they were leaving long time station 
KNBR and all of their games will be broadcast on KGMZ.[71] After each game, 
Roye, Fitzgerald and Barnett get together for post-game radio analysis 
and a next-game preview. The team trains at Oakland Convention Center, 
Oakland, California. Roster • Transactions Last transaction: 2016–10–20 
The Warriors hold the draft rights to the following unsigned draft picks 
who have been playing outside the NBA. A drafted player, either an international 
draftee or a college draftee, who isn't signed by the team that drafted 
him, is allowed to sign with any non-NBA teams. In this case, the team 
retains the player's draft rights in the NBA until one year after the player's 
contract with the non-NBA team ends.[73] This list includes draft rights 
that were acquired from trades with other teams. [74] Arizin, Fulks, Gola, 
Johnston and Phillip played all or most of their tenure with the Warriors 
in Philadelphia. Rodgers' tenure was evenly divided between Philadelphia 
and San Francisco, and Chamberlain's nearly so. King (Knicks), Lucas (Knicks), 
Parish (Celtics), Richmond (Kings), Sampson (University of Virginia and 
Rockets), White (Celtics), and Wilkes (Lakers) were elected mostly for 
their performances with other teams. Marčiulionis played most of his NBA 
career with Golden State, but his induction is also for his distinguished 
international career (Statyba, USSR, and Lithuania). Of those elected to 
the hall primarily as Warriors, only Thurmond, Barry and Mullin spent significant 
time with the team since the 1971 move to Oakland and the name change to 
"Golden State". Most Valuable Player NBA Finals MVP NBA All-Star Game MVP 
NBA All-Star selections NBA Scoring Champion NBA Rookie of the Year NBA 
Most Improved Player of the Year NBA Executive of the Year NBA Coach of 
the Year NBA Sportsmanship Award Slam Dunk Contest Three-Point Contest 
All-NBA First Team All-NBA Second Team All-NBA Third Team NBA All-Star 
Game head coach NBA All-Defensive First Team NBA All-Defensive Second Team 
