Golf Channel on NBC is the branding used for broadcasts of golf tournaments 
produced by NBC Sports in conjunction with Golf Channel, on the NBC television 
network in the United States. The network's coverage focuses mostly on 
the PGA Tour (NBC shares the broadcast rights for weekend rounds with CBS 
Sports), but also includes other major events such as the Ryder Cup, and 
tournaments from other tours to which NBC Sports Group holds the television 
rights. While originally using generic branding based on the event or tour 
(such as The PGA Tour on NBC), after NBC's parent company NBC Universal 
was acquired by Comcast – owner of Golf Channel (which serves as the current 
cable partner of the PGA Tour) – in February 2011, the channel's operations 
were merged directly into NBC Sports; subsequently, golf telecasts on NBC 
were rebranded under the Golf Channel on NBC banner. In a similar fashion 
to ESPN's co-branding of sporting events broadcast by ABC since September 
2006, the production of NBC's golf telecasts have since been brought in 
line with that of Golf Channel. NBC first began televising golf events 
after it was awarded the television rights to the U.S. Open in 1954. The 
tournament continued to air on the network through the 1965 event, however 
NBC rebuffed a long-term deal to broadcast the event when the United States 
Golf Association (USGA) decided on a true contract in 1966. The network, 
however, did televise a handful of PGA Tour events over the following decades. 
In 1983, NBC televised the first Skins Game ever held, with Vin Scully 
serving as announcer for the tournament broadcast. From 1983 to 1989, Scully[1] 
juggled duties for both golf and Major League Baseball telecasts for NBC, 
usually teaming with Lee Trevino. The only notable affiliate not to televise 
the first event was KYW-TV (now a CBS owned-and-operated station) in Philadelphia. 
In 1991, coverage of the Skins Game moved to ABC Sports, after NBC obtained 
the rights to broadcast Notre Dame college football games. After Vin Scully 
left NBC Sports following the network's loss of the Major League Baseball 
package to CBS, Bryant Gumbel, who was still co-hosting Today at the time, 
took over as NBC's primary golf anchor. In 1991, Gumbel was replaced by 
Charlie Jones and subsequently, Dan Hicks. The American Century Celebrity 
Golf Classic was held in 1990[2] and sponsored by NBC, which broadcasts 
the second- and third-round coverage. The game NBC Sports Real Golf was 
unveiled at the 17th annual American Century Championship Celebrity Golf 
Event and promoted during NBC's broadcast of the event. NBC generally televised 
around five regular PGA Tour events per season at this time. In 1991, the 
network acquired the broadcast rights to the Ryder Cup.[3][4] In 1995, 
NBC Sports acquired rights to the USGA championships, including the U.S. 
Open, from ESPN/ABC. ESPN retained rights to a portion of the weekday coverage, 
however NBC was the dominant rightsholder, including exclusive coverage 
of the weekend rounds. This took NBC's coverage to a new level, and marked 
the first time in the modern era of television that the network had televised 
a major championship. NBC, and its lead analyst Johnny Miller (who joined 
NBC in 1990), became synonymous with the U.S. Open, televising it for the 
next 20 years, through 2014.[5] In January 2006, the PGA Tour announced 
a new set of television deals covering 2007 to 2012, increase the number 
of events covered by NBC Sports from five to ten. The deal also renewed 
broadcast deals for the Ryder Cup and the USGA Championships, including 
the U.S. Open.[6] NBC is the only network which provide four days of major 
tournament coverage (CBS, which airs the Masters and the PGA Championship, 
only provides weekend coverage of its tournaments; starting in 2010, the 
Open Championship would not be aired live on a major broadcast network 
at all, with all four rounds airing on ESPN and ABC providing only edited 
highlights of the event). NBC carried the weekend coverage of the JELD-WEN 
Tradition in 2007, 2009 and 2010. Golf Channel covered the early rounds 
(and all four rounds in 2008 while NBC carried the Summer Olympic Games 
from Beijing). NBC carried a tape delayed broadcast of the World Series 
of Golf, which was held from May 13 to 16, 2007, on June 23 and 24 of that 
year; the 2008 event of the series, played from May 12 to 15, and was televised 
by CBS on June 28 and 29. In 2007, The Shark Shootout was moved to December, 
and was broadcast live by both Golf Channel and NBC. The event was originally 
broadcast in the United States by sister cable channel USA Network, and 
CBS – with USA broadcasting the first round on a tape-delayed basis, and 
CBS handling the second round live. The final round was not broadcast live 
to the entire country, as CBS' commitment to the NFL only allowed the round 
as it took place to air in the Eastern and Central Time Zones, with the 
rest of the U.S. seeing the event beginning at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time. 
In January 2011, Comcast, owners of Golf Channel, acquired a majority stake 
in the NBC network's parent company NBC Universal. Comcast's existing sports 
properties were merged into the NBC Sports division, allowing Golf Channel 
to pool its personalities and other personnel with NBC. As a result of 
this synergy, Golf Channel took over production of NBC's golf telecasts, 
which were now co-branded under the "Golf Channel on NBC" banner, beginning 
at the 2011 WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship, with a co-branded logo 
adding the NBC peacock to Golf Channel's existing logo (the co-branded 
presentation would also migrate to Golf Channel proper shortly afterward).[7] 
While most golf broadcasts on NBC used Golf Channel's imagery as a result 
of the changes, the Players Championship, Ryder Cup and USGA tournaments 
maintain the distinctive theme music that NBC used prior to the rebranding 
(such as the theme from The Man from Snowy River for the Players, and Yanni's 
"In Celebration of Man"[8] for the U.S. Open and other USGA events), and 
their use was also extended to Golf Channel's telecasts. As ESPN owned 
the cable television rights to the U.S. Open, NBC's coverage was credited 
during introductions as being a presentation of NBC Sports rather than 
Golf Channel, although the Golf Channel-branded graphics and bug were still 
used. In both 2013 and 2014, NBC broadcast weekend coverage of the Aberdeen 
Asset Management Scottish Open from Scotland. The 2013 event was played 
at Castle Stuart near Inverness, while the 2014 event was hosted by Royal 
Aberdeen, near Aberdeen. Coverage of the tournament during both years was 
anchored by Rich Lerner, and the action was called by lead European Tour 
announcer Dougie Donnelly and Golf Channel's lead PGA Tour analyst Frank 
Nobilo. In August 2013, the USGA signed a broadcasting contract with Fox 
Sports, effective with the 2015 tournament season, ending NBC's relationship 
with the association after 20 years. Fox, which by the time of its first 
U.S. Open will have televised just two PGA Tour sanctioned events in its 
history (the unofficial CVS Caremark Charity Classic in 2011 and the unofficial 
Franklin Templeton Shootout in 2014), paid US$1 billion for the exclusive 
rights to all USGA championship events. Johnny Miller expressed disappointment 
at the loss, saying that he "had a feeling" NBC would not retain the rights, 
and that Fox would not be able to "fall out of a tree and do the U.S. Open".[9] 
The 2014 U.S. Open at Pinehurst Resort was the network's 20th, and final, 
U.S. Open telecast in the modern era. On June 8, 2015, it was announced 
that NBC and Golf Channel had acquired rights to The Open Championship 
under a 12-year deal, replacing ESPN. The R&A was, reportedly, won over 
by NBC's rights fee (which is approximately doubled in comparison to ESPN), 
and the performance of NBC's broadcasts of the Premier League, which air 
in a similar weekend morning time slot in the U.S.. The deal restored a 
men's major back to NBC for the first time since 2014, gave Golf Channel 
coverage of its first-ever major, and returned the Open to broadcast network 
television.[10] Originally stated to begin in 2017, it was reported on 
October 12, 2015 that ESPN had opted out the final year of its contract 
to NBC, thus causing NBC coverage to begin in 2016 instead, mirroring a 
similar move by the BBC to also opt out of what would have been its final 
year of Open coverage to new rightsholder Sky Sports.[11][12] In January 
2016, former CBS analyst David Feherty joined NBC to become a full-time 
contributor for its coverage and Golf Channel. Feherty already hosted a 
self-titled series for Golf Channel.[13][14] Long-time ESPN personality 
Mike Tirico made his on-air debut with NBC during the 2016 Open Championship.[15] 
