Goodyear Ballpark is a stadium in Goodyear, Arizona (west suburban Phoenix) 
and part of a $108 million[3] baseball complex that is the current spring 
training home of the Cleveland Indians and the Cincinnati Reds. The stadium 
opened to the public with a grand opening ceremony on February 21, 2009[3] 
and held its first Cactus League spring training baseball game on February 
25, 2009.[4] The stadium complex is owned by the city of Goodyear and contains 
the main field with a seating capacity of 10,000[3] along with several 
practice fields and team offices. The main entrance of the stadium is modern 
and uses surfaces mimicking dark stained wood and polished metal. The entrance 
houses a team shop, several concession stands and is decorated with Indians 
posters on the 1st base side and Reds on the 3rd base side. The entrance 
also has a third story terrace patio that can be rented for private parties. 
Outside the main entrance, the concourse features a 60-foot 6 inch fiberglass 
statue titled "The Ziz" created by artist Donald Lipski.[3] The main entrance 
structure does not interfere with the inside the stadium which is a single 
tier of seating. Free standing polished metal awnings with fabric shades 
provide shelter from the sun down the third base line. Bullpens are located 
off the field in left and left center field. There is a large scoreboard 
in left field with general admission seating on a grass berm at its base. 
A cinder block concession stand in center field is painted dark green to 
provide a backdrop for the hitters. Right field features a second grass 
berm and a patio seating area and bar. The patio and bar area, like the 
Terrace patio, can be rented for private parties. There is a child play 
area with a Wiffle Ball field, inflatable batting and pitching games located 
on the first base side of the stadium. Goodyear Ballpark replaces Chain 
of Lakes Park in Winter Haven, Florida, as the Indians' spring training 
home, and Ed Smith Stadium in Sarasota, Florida, as the Reds' spring training 
home. The stadium is primarily used for baseball but also hosts community 
events such as the City of Goodyear's Star Spangled 4th, Fall Festival, 
