The Governors' Cup is the trophy awarded each year to the champion of the 
International League, one of the two current Triple-A level minor leagues 
of Major League Baseball. In 1933, Frank Shaughnessy, General Manager of 
the League's Montreal Royals, introduced a new playoff system to International 
League President Charles H. Knappe and the Governors' Cup was born. Shaughnessy, 
who would ultimately serve as International League President from 1936 
until 1960, was interested in developing a way for more than two clubs 
to share in the excitement of post-season play. His playoff format, devised 
to maintain the interest of fans and players alike during the Depression 
era, provided an opportunity for four teams to participate rather than 
only two. Several other leagues, including the Pacific Coast League, noticed 
the success of the "Shaughnessy Plan" and followed suit.[1] In response 
to the new playoff format, the Governors of Maryland, New Jersey, and New 
York and the Lieutenant Governors of the Provinces of Quebec and Ontario 
sponsored a trophy to be awarded annually to the winner of the International 
League playoffs. The trophy, designed by the Supervisor of International 
League Umpires and silversmith W. B. Carpenter, was created out of solid 
silver and has been appraised at over $3,000.[1] In 1988, International 
League President Harold Cooper donated the trophy to the Baseball Hall 
of Fame in Cooperstown, New York, where it is on permanent display. A new 
trophy of the same name was minted in its place and is presented annually 
to the winner of the Governors' Cup Championship Series.[1] The replica 
trophy was smashed while in possession of the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Yankees 
by an attendee of a game from northeastern Pennsylvania on August 27, 2009.[2] 
Ten Eight Seven Six Five Four Three Two One Note: Italics indicate franchises 
no longer in the International League. For the 1900-1932 champions, see 
List of International League champions. (*) - Also Pennant Winner (x) - 
A one-game playoff as a result of the series being cancelled September 
12, 2001. Louisville, which had won Game 1, 2-1, of the five-game series 
on September 10, was declared the winner. After 10 seasons in a two division 
format, the International League switched to a three division alignment 
in 1998. The practice of recognizing the League Champion as not only the 
Pennant Winner, but also the Governors’ Cup Winner will continue.[3] The 
Governors' Cup Playoffs format is separated into two best-of-five series. 
With the three division format, all three division winners, and a Wild 
Card team (the team with the best second place record in the International 
League) will enter into the "Division Series". The North Division Champion 
will play the Wild Card team, while the South Champion plays the West Champion. 
The winners of these series will move on to the Governors' Cup Championship 
Series. The team who wins the best-of-five Championship Series will be 
