Governors Island is a 172-acre (70 ha) island in Upper New York Bay, approximately 
800 yards (732 m) from the southern tip of Manhattan Island and separated 
from Brooklyn by Buttermilk Channel, approximately 400 yards (366 m). It 
is part of the borough of Manhattan in New York City. The National Park 
Service administers a small portion of the north of the island as the Governors 
Island National Monument, while the Trust for Governors Island operates 
the rest as a public park. The national historic landmark district, approximately 
92 acres (37 ha) of the northern half of the island, is open to the public 
for several months in the summer and early fall, and the circumferential 
road around the island is also open to the public. The island is accessed 
by ferries from Brooklyn and Manhattan. The Native Americans of the Manhattan 
region referred to the island as Paggank ("nut island"), likely after the 
island's plentiful hickory, oak, and chestnut trees;[3] the Dutch explorer 
Adriaen Block called it Noten Eylant, a translation, and this was borrowed 
into English as Nutten Island. The island's current name, made official 
in 1784, stems from the British colonial era, when the colonial assembly 
reserved the island for the exclusive use of New York's royal governors. 
In 1776, during the American Revolutionary War, Continental Army troops 
raised defensive works on the island, which they used to fire upon British 
ships before they were taken. From 1783 to 1966, the island was a United 
States Army post, and from 1966 to 1996 the island served as a major United 
States Coast Guard installation. About 103 acres (42 ha) of fill was added 
to the island by 1912, making the island a 172-acre (70 ha) island.[4] 
In 1524, Giovanni da Verrazzano saw the island, becoming the first European 
to do so. It was then called Paggank (Island of Nuts;[3] described above) 
by the Native Americans.[5] In May 1624, Noten Eylandt ("Island of Nuts"; 
officially renamed Governors Island in 1784) was the landing place of the 
first settlers in New Netherland. They had arrived from the Dutch Republic 
with the ship New Netherland under the command of Cornelius Jacobsen May, 
who disembarked on the island with thirty families in order to take legal 
possession of the New Netherland territory.[6] As such, the New York State 
Senate and Assembly recognize Governors Island as the birthplace of the 
state of New York, and also certify the island as the place on which the 
planting of the "legal-political guaranty of tolerance onto the North American 
continent" took place.[7] In 1633, the fifth director of New Netherland, 
Wouter van Twiller, arrived with a 104-man regiment on Governors Island—its 
first use as a military base. Later he operated a farm on the island. He 
secured his farm by drawing up a deed on June 16, 1637, which was signed 
by two Lenape, Cacapeteyno and Pewihas, on behalf of their community at 
Keshaechquereren, situated in what today is New Jersey. New Netherland 
was conditionally ceded to the English in 1664, and the English renamed 
the settlement New York in June 1665.[8] By 1674, the British had total 
control of the island.[9] After the beginning of the American Revolutionary 
War, in one night, April 9, 1776, Continental Army General Israel Putnam 
fortified the island with earthworks and 40 cannons in anticipation of 
the return of the British Army and navy who had quit New York City the 
year before. The harbor defenses on the island continued to be improved 
over the summer, and on July 12, 1776, engaged HMS Phoenix and HMS Rose 
as they made a run up the Hudson River to the Tappan Zee. The Americans' 
cannon inflicted enough damage to make the British commanders cautious 
of entering the East River, which later contributed to the success of General 
George Washington's retreat across it from Brooklyn into Manhattan after 
the Battle of Long Island (also known as the Battle of Brooklyn), the British 
Army effort to take Brooklyn Heights overlooking Manhattan and the largest 
battle of the entire war.[9] The Continental Army forces collapsed after 
being flanked and eventually withdrew from Brooklyn and from Governors 
Island as well, and the British occupied it in late August. From September 
2 to 14, the new British garrison would engage volleys with Washington's 
guns on the battery in front of Fort George in Manhattan.[10] The fort, 
along with the rest of New York City, was held by the British for the rest 
of the war until Evacuation Day at the end of the war in 1783. At the end 
of the Revolution, the island, as a former holding of the Crown, came into 
ownership by the state of New York and saw no military usage. Prompted 
by the unsettled international situation between the warring powers of 
France and Great Britain and the need for more substantial harbor fortifications, 
the Revolutionary War-era earthworks were rehabilitated into harbor defenses 
by the city and state of New York. Noten (in pidgin language, "Nutten") 
Island was renamed Governors Island in 1784 as the island, in earlier times, 
had been reserved by the British colonial assembly for the exclusive use 
of New York's royal governors. The Governor's House (perhaps ca 1703, with 
additions) survives as the oldest structure on the island.[11] By the late 
1790s, the Quasi-War with France prompted a national program of harbor 
fortifications and the state of New York began improvements as a credit 
for its Revolutionary War debt. In February 1800, the island was conveyed 
to the federal government, which undertook the reconstruction of Fort Jay 
and new construction of two waterfront batteries, Castle Williams and South 
or Half Moon Battery.[9] Two forts were built. The first, Fort Jay, was 
built in 1794 by the state of New York on the site of the earlier Revolutionary 
War earthworks, and was originally a square four-bastioned fort of earthworks 
and timber. A sandstone and brick gate house topped with a sculpture of 
an eagle dates to that time and is the oldest structure on the island. 
From 1806 to 1809, Fort Jay, then renamed Fort Columbus was reconstructed 
in more substantial brick and granite with the addition of a ravelin on 
its north face, giving the fort its current five-point-star appearance, 
to better protect the fort from a Manhattan-based attack and to more directly 
place cannon fire on to the East and Hudson Rivers.[9] The second major 
fortification, Castle Williams, was based on a design by Colonel Jonathan 
Williams; construction started in 1807 and substantially completed in November 
1811. Located on a rocky shoal extending from the northwest corner of the 
island, it was inspired by then-modern French thinking on fortifications, 
but a pioneering design for American fortification. It was a designed as 
a circular structure that could project a 320 degree arc of cannon fire 
from three levels of casemates (bomb-proof rooms holding two cannons each) 
and roof, holding 103 cannon gun emplacements.[9] Fort Jay and Castle Williams 
are considered among the best remaining examples of First System (Fort 
Jay) and Second System (Castle Williams) American coastal fortification. 
They proved useful soon after completion, as they were used to defend the 
city in the War of 1812.[9] However, within two decades, their defenses 
were antiquated and the forts' usages needed to be downsized. Therefore, 
part of Governors Island was repurposed for civilian use. However, the 
Army still retained military operations, with an "administrative and training 
center" on the island and a muster station throughout the Mexican–American 
War and American Civil War; in addition, there was an arsenal and Army-operated 
music school located on the island.[9] During the American Civil War, Castle 
Williams held Confederate prisoners of war and Fort Jay held captured Confederate 
officers. After the war, Castle Williams was used as a military stockade 
and became the east coast counterpart to military prisons at Fort Leavenworth, 
Kansas, and Alcatraz Island, California.[9] In 1878, the military installation 
on the island, then known collectively as Fort Columbus, became a major 
Army administrative center. Army officers' families started to move in, 
and resources, such as a movie theater, a YMCA, an "officer’s club," a 
public school, and three chapels, were built.[9] In 1885, the first incinerator 
in the U.S. was built on Governors Island.[12] Using material excavated 
from the first New York City subway line (the IRT Lexington Avenue Line 
under Lexington Avenue), the Army Corps of Engineers supervised the deposit 
of 4,787,000 cubic yards (3,660,000 m3) of fill on the south side of Governors 
Island, adding 103 acres (42 ha) of flat, treeless land by 1912 and bringing 
the total acreage of the island to 172.[4][not in citation given] By 1912, 
the island's administrative leaders included General Tasker H. Bliss, who 
would become Army Chief of Staff in 1917.[13] In 1939, the island became 
the headquarters of the U.S. First Army.[9] Throughout this period, the 
army culture on the island grew.[9] The Brooklyn–Battery Tunnel passes 
underwater and off-shore of the island's northeast corner, its location 
marked by a ventilation building connected to the island by a causeway. 
At one point prior to World War II, Robert Moses proposed a bridge across 
the harbor, with a base located on Governors Island. The intervention of 
the War Department quashed the plan, calling it a possible navigational 
threat to the Brooklyn Navy Yard. Prior to the construction of Floyd Bennett 
Field in Brooklyn, the island was considered as a site for a municipal 
airport, and it held a small grass strip, the Governors Island Army Airfield, 
from the 1950s until the 1960s.[14] After a yearlong study of by the Department 
of Defense to cut costs and reduce the number of military installations, 
the Army announced in November 1964 that Fort Jay and Brooklyn Navy Yard 
were to be closed by 1966.[9] When the Army left Governors Island in 1966, 
the installation became a United States Coast Guard base.[9] The Coast 
Guard saw the island as an opportunity to consolidate and provide more 
facilities for its schools, and as a base for its regional and Atlantic 
Ocean operations. This was the Coast Guard's largest installation, and 
for them as the Army, served both as a self-contained residential community, 
with an on-island population of approximately 3,500, and as a base of operations 
for the Atlantic Area Command, its regional Third District command, Maintenance 
and Logistics Command, various schools which were relocated from Coast 
Guard Station New London in New London, Connecticut, and the local office 
of the Captain of the Port of New York. It was also homeport for several 
U.S. Coast Guard cutters including USCGC Dallas (WHEC-716), USCGC Gallatin 
(WHEC-721), USCGC Morgenthau (WHEC-722), USCGC Tamaroa (WMEC-166) and USCGC 
Sorrel (WLB-296). In the thirty years of occupation on the island, the 
Coast Guard began a long, slow process of upgrading facilities and infrastructure 
that had been little improved upon since the 1930s. This effort also prompted 
a recognition of the island's military heritage by having 92 acres (370,000 m2) 
recognized as a National Historic Landmark on February 4, 1985, recognizing 
its wide range and representation of Army fortification, administrative 
and residential architecture dating from the early days of the nation.[2][15][16] 
During this time, Governors Island has served as the backdrop for a number 
of historic events. In 1986, the island was the setting for the relighting 
of the newly refurbished Statue of Liberty by President Ronald Reagan. 
On December 8, 1988, along with Vice President and President elect George 
Bush, President Ronald Reagan held his final meeting as president with 
Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev in the Commanding Officer's quarters. In 
July 1993, the United Nations sponsored talks at the South Battery Officer's 
Club to help restore democratic rule in Haiti resulting in the Governors 
Island Accord, signed between Haitian political leaders.[17] Like the Army 
30 years before, the U.S. Department of Transportation, then parent of 
the Coast Guard, was compelled to cut costs as other federal agencies in 
the early 1990s. Because of its high operating costs and remote location 
from most of its activity in Gulf of Mexico and the Caribbean, the Governors 
Island base was identified for closure in 1995. The closure was an agency 
initiative and not part of the Base Realignment and Closure Commission 
(BRAC) process that impacted numerous Department of Defense installations 
at that time. By September 1996 the Coast Guard had relocated all functions 
and residential personnel to offices and bases in Rhode Island and Virginia. 
The Coast Guard left a caretaker detachment to maintain the island along 
with the General Services Administration (GSA) while its future was determined. 
With the departure of the Coast Guard, almost two centuries of the island's 
use as a federal military reservation concluded. The disposal of the island 
as excess federal property was outlined in the Budget Reduction Act of 
1996. The legislation set a deadline and directed that the island be sold 
at a fair market value by GSA by 2002, but gave the city and state of New 
York a right of first refusal, a provision that was inserted into the legislation 
by New York senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan who envisioned the island with 
great potential as a public and civic resource. With the announcement of 
the Coast Guard base closure and departure, city and state officials along 
with private developers and civic planners began to offer opinions and 
ideas on the island's future that included housing, parks, education and 
private development. In 1996, Van Alen Institute hosted an ideas competition 
called "Public Property" which asked designers "to consider the urban potential 
of Governors Island in terms of spatial adjacencies and experiential overlaps 
between a range of actions, actors, events, and ecologies... to acknowledge 
the physical reality of cities and their historic programmatic complexity 
as fundamental to the survival of a vital public realm." The competition 
was open to anyone who registered. More than 200 entries from students, 
faculty, and landscape architects in 14 different countries were received. 
The jury members included: Andrea Kahn, Christine Boyer, Miriam Gusevich, 
Judith Henitz, Carlos Jimenez, and Enric Miralles. A proposal to adaptively 
reuse Castle Williams for a New Globe Theater was designed by architect 
Norman Foster.[18] The non-profit organization worked in partnership with 
Shakespeare's Globe Theater in London to develop a proposal and seek backing 
for a cultural center and performance space in the Castle. With the completion 
of a National Park Service general management plan for Castle Williams 
and Fort Jay in 2009, it was determined that the proposed use of the Castle 
for the theater was not congruous with its historical significance. In 
a last-minute act while in office, President Bill Clinton designated 22 
acres of the island, including the two great forts, as Governors Island 
National Monument on January 19, 2001. In the next year on April 1, 2002, 
President George W. Bush, Governor Pataki, and Mayor Michael Bloomberg 
announced that the federal government would sell Governors Island to the 
people of New York for a nominal cost, and that the island would be used 
for public benefit. At the time of the transfer, deed restrictions were 
created that prohibit permanent housing and casinos on the island. On January 
31, 2003, 150 acres of Governors Island were transferred to the people 
of New York, to be administered by a joint city-state agency, the Governors 
Island Preservation and Education Corporation (GIPEC). The remaining 22 
acres was legally reaffirmed by presidential proclamation on February 7, 
2003 as the Governors Island National Monument, to be administered by the 
National Park Service. On January 19, 2001, Fort Jay and Castle Williams, 
two of the island's three historical fortifications, were proclaimed a 
National Monument. On January 31, 2003, 150 acres (61 ha) of the island 
was transferred to the State and City of New York for $1. The remainder, 
a 22 acres (9 ha) portion, was transferred to the United States Department 
of the Interior as the Governors Island National Monument, administered 
by the National Park Service. The 150-acre portion of the island not included 
in the National Monument is administered by The Trust for Governors Island, 
an entity of the City of New York and the successor of the joint city/state 
established redevelopment entity, the Governors Island Preservation and 
Education Corporation. The transfer included deed restrictions which prohibit 
permanent housing or casinos on the island. On February 15, 2006, Governor 
George Pataki and Mayor Michael Bloomberg called for "visionary ideas to 
redevelop and preserve Governors Island"[19] to be submitted to Governors 
Island Preservation and Education Corporation (GIPEC). The announcement 
said proposals should "enhance New York's place as a center of culture, 
business, education and innovation," include public parkland, contribute 
to the harbor's vitality and stress "environmentally sustainable development." 
Deputy Mayor Dan Doctoroff said whatever group or entity is selected to 
develop the island would assume the $12 million annual maintenance costs 
that are now split between the city and state. In early 2007, GIPEC paused 
in the search for developers, focusing on the development of a major park 
on the island as called for in the deed that conveyed the island from the 
federal government to the city and state of New York. In 2007, the Governors 
Island Preservation and Education Corporation announced five finalist design 
teams that were chosen to submit their ideas for the future park and Great 
Promenade;[20][21] the GIPEC had awarded leases to its first two tenants 
a year before.[21] The corporation appointed West 8, Diller Scofidio + 
Renfro, Rogers Marvel Architects, Quennell Rothschild & Partners, and SMWM 
to design a development plan for Governors Island.[22][23] The plan included 
87 acres (35 ha) of open space on the island, as well as provided for the 
restoration of the historic district and a new park on the southern half 
of the island.[20] Each firm was asked their visions for the new park. 
West 8 proposed free bicycle rentals around the island;[20][22][24] also, 
since the island is windy, they also proposed a design where the landscape 
would make people feel safe from the wind.[22] With transportation to and 
from the island, one idea considered was an aerial gondola system designed 
by Santiago Calatrava.[22][25] There are very few tenants on the island. 
Fewer than 1,000 workers, artists, and students work or live on the island.[26] 
However, in 2009, a 3-acre (12,000 m2) commercial organic farm, operated 
by the non-profit organization, Added Value, was launched.[27] In 2010, 
the Urban Assembly New York Harbor School, a small public high school in 
Bushwick, Brooklyn, was relocated to the Island, remodeling the former 
Coast Guard clinic in Building 555. Also that year, artist studios run 
by the Lower Manhattan Cultural Council and housed in a portion of Building 
110 opened, and New York University announced an expansion plan that included 
a campus on the Island, "complete with dorms and faculty housing."[28] 
In April 2010, the city entered an agreement to take full control of the 
island's development from the state of New York through a newly established 
Trust for Governors Island, and unveiled a new master development plan. 
Under the plan, the historic northern end will remain structurally unchanged. 
The middle of the island would be developed into a park stretching to the 
southern tip. Areas on the east and west sides of the island will be privately 
developed to generate revenue, and the entire island will be edged by a 
circumferential promenade. The 40-acre (160,000 m2) park, designed by Adriaan 
Geuze of the Dutch landscape architecture firm West 8 would feature playing 
fields, woodland, and hills built of the rubble of the disused 20th-century 
buildings sculpted to frame views of the Statue of Liberty and other New 
York landmarks. The southern end of the park would meet the water in a 
series of wetlands.[29] In November 2011, the Center for Urban Real Estate 
(CURE) at Columbia University proposed a fanciful idea of using fill to 
physically connect Manhattan to Governors Island. CURE proposed "a 92-acre 
national historic district on the island, 3.9 million square feet for public 
buildings like schools and 270 acres of open space" in their plan. This 
proposal, called LoLo, would require 23 million cubic yards of landfill 
and allow for up to 88 million square feet of new development, while providing 
new subway stations from the extension of the 1 and 6 trains. and a bridge 
to Red Hook, Brooklyn. The proposed landfill bridge would also serve as 
a storm surge barrier.[30] On May 24, 2012, Mayor Michael Bloomberg broke 
ground on the new park and public spaces designed by the landscape design 
firm West 8, along with announcing the opening of the rehabilitated Castle 
Williams.[31] The Bloomberg administration's ten-year capital plan had 
provided funding for the first phase of construction, which began in the 
summer of 2012.[32] As part of phase 1 of the master plan:[32] On June 
6, 2015, the Oyster Pavilion was set to open.[34] The 10-acre (4.0 ha) 
Hills section of the park were the last piece of the newly redeveloped 
island to open.[35] The Hills opened on July 21, 2016,[36] and consist 
of four hills that are 26 to 70 feet (7.9 to 21.3 m) high,[37] including 
a hill that contains four long slides.[38] Since the decision by the US 
Coast Guard to vacate the 172-acre (0.70 km2) Island in 1995, the Governors 
Island Alliance has worked collaboratively and successfully to help secure 
its return to New York and to ensure that the public interest determine 
its reuse.[39] The Alliance and its 50 member organizations led a campaign 
to see Governors Island returned to New York for public purposes, a mandate 
embodied in GIPEC's 2003 charter to create "an educational, recreational, 
and cultural center that will offer a broad range of public uses", create 
about 90 acres (360,000 m2) of parks and public spaces, and abide by design 
restrictions in the National Landmark Historic District. The Governors 
Island Alliance is working with its many partners to make these commitments 
a reality, and engage the public in their planning. The Alliance publishes 
a monthly electronic newsletter that provides the latest information on 
Island happenings. Equally important, the Alliance is working to enliven 
the Island with a variety of recreation and arts programs so that visitors 
can enjoy this harbor destination. The Alliance is a coalition of organizations 
and individuals working to celebrate the Island's unique history as the 
place on which the New World's first lawful expression of religious tolerance 
as an individual right took place in 1624. It aims to create a memorable 
museum-park-to-tolerance as a destination for all Americans on 30% of the 
island, and ensure a fitting and sustainable reuse of New York State's 
birthplace as "The Island at the Center of the New World." According to 
the Alliance, as Liberty Island's thematic complement, Governors Island 
serves as a primary symbol in New York Harbor and beacon to humanity whereas 
its historic message – the Lifeblood of American liberty – endures for 
future generations. It supposedly helped to preserve the island for education 
when it was vacated by the Coast Guard in 1998.[40] Since its transfer 
in 2003, Governors Island has been open to the public on weekends during 
the summer. Beginning in 2016, the island is open seven days a week from 
Memorial Day weekend through the last weekend in September. Starting in 
2010, weekend ferry service commenced between Governors Island and Brooklyn 
Bridge Park's Pier 6 at Atlantic Avenue. On the island, passengers depart 
and arrive at Yankee Pier.[41] Commercial summer weekend ferry service 
operated by NY Waterway's East River Ferry between Governors Island and 
DUMBO, Williamsburg, and Greenpoint began in 2011 with a $4 each way with 
an additional fee of $1 for bikes.[42] A summer Friday-only loop serves 
Governors Island, Manhattan, Atlantic Avenue, and Brooklyn Bridge Park. 
Access from Manhattan is from the Battery Maritime Building in the Financial 
District. The 1908 cast-iron structure, located next to the Staten Island 
Ferry terminal, was restored between 2001-2006.[43] Service is half-hourly. 
The departure and arrival dock on Governors Island is the Soissons Dock 
at the north tip of the island. The ride is about 7 minutes in duration. 
This ferry is only accessible during the late spring and the summer.[44] 
However, Governors Island is expected to be served by the Citywide Ferry 
Service year-round at a date not yet determined.[45][44] Activities on 
the island include free National Park Service walking tours, bike riding, 
picnicking, art installations, fairs, drone races, festivals, and concerts. 
Bicycle, tandem, and quadcycle rental is provided on the island by Bike 
and Roll at hourly and daily rates.[46] New York Water Taxi operates an 
artificial beach on the northern tip of the island.[47] The island is roughly 
divided in half by a street called Division Road. The northeastern half 
is currently open to the public. The southwestern half, which contains 
the abandoned U.S. Coast Guard housing and service areas, is still in redevelopment 
and some sections remain closed to the public. However, three sections 
of the park are open: the southern end Picnic Point, the central Hammock 
Grove as of 2014, and The Hills on the southwestern corner as of 2016. 
The island's circumferential drive along the waterfront is also open to 
the public. Demolition of the U.S. Coast Guard housing began in 2008. It 
is on the grounds of the former Liberty Village housing area that was used 
by Coast Guard families between 1988 and 1996.[48] There are still Coast 
Guard buildings and barracks, not of historical significance, in areas 
yet to be redeveloped. The Governors Island Art Fair has taken place annually 
on the island during weekends in September since 2007. Originally located 
in buildings on Colonel’s Row, the event has grown to include Castle Williams 
and Fort Jay as artist venues. The 2015 season saw an expansion in the 
number and variety of exhibits, held in the former officers' quarters and 
other buildings, some redeveloped, some not. The "World Trade Center Run 
to Remember" has been run annually on the island since 2009 on the first 
Sunday of September. The activities include a 5K Run, 3K Family Fun Run/Walk, 
Children's Fun Run, and other activities to benefit organizations associated 
with 9/11 related services.[49] Notes Sources Further reading Official 
