Graeme John Lloyd (born 9 April 1967) is an Australian former professional 
baseball pitcher, who played for the Milwaukee Brewers, New York Yankees, 
Toronto Blue Jays, Montreal Expos, Florida Marlins, New York Mets, and 
Kansas City Royals of Major League Baseball (MLB). Lloyd played with the 
Milwaukee Brewers, New York Yankees, Toronto Blue Jays, and Kansas City 
Royals all of the American League and the Montreal Expos, Florida Marlins, 
and New York Mets all of the National League. He is the third native Australian 
so far to have pitched in Major League Baseball, as of July 2012[update]. 
Lloyd was used exclusively as a relief pitcher during his ten years in 
the major leagues. He ended his career with 30 wins against 36 losses, 
17 saves, and 97 holds. At his peak, Lloyd threw a sinking fastball that 
reached 90 miles (140 km) per hour and a slider. Later in his career, he 
added a palmball to his repertoire.[1] For much of his career, he was used 
as a left-handed specialist, or LOOGY (lefty one out guy).[1] This type 
of pitcher is used against an opposing team's star left-handed hitter(s) 
late in a game. Lloyd excelled in this role for the New York Yankees in 
1998 when he posted a career-best 1.67 ERA. This effectiveness led to the 
Toronto Blue Jays demanding that Lloyd be included in a package anchored 
by starting pitcher David Wells when the Yankees traded for Toronto starting 
pitcher Roger Clemens.[2] Lloyd became the first Australian baseball player 
to win a World Series in 1996 while playing for the New York Yankees. The 
Yankees defeated the Atlanta Braves in a six-game series. Lloyd was awarded 
the win for Game 4 of the series, replacing Mariano Rivera in the 9th inning 
and forcing the left-handed batsman Fred McGriff into a double play.[3] 
Lloyd became a two time World Series champion for the Yankees in 1998, 
defeating the San Diego Padres. Lloyd is still the only Australian baseball 
player to have won a World Series.[4] Lloyd missed the entire 2000 season 
while recovering from arthroscopic surgery. In 2001, he received the Tony 
Conigliaro Award.[5] Lloyd represented his native Australia at the Olympic 
Games in Athens in 2004.[6] His teammate Dave Nilsson had made history 
with him ten years earlier, when, on 13 April 1994, the men formed the 
first all-Australian battery in an MLB game. Lloyd's wife Cindy suffered 
from Crohn's disease, which she succumbed to in 2000 at the age of 26.[7] 
In 2000 and 2001, Graeme acted as the spokesman for the Graeme Lloyd and 
Jon Mechanic Field of Dreams, a charity which was dedicated in the name 
of Cindy Lloyd. He is currently the pitching coach for the Perth Heat of 
