Henry Grantland Rice (November 1, 1880 – July 13, 1954) was an early 20th-century 
American sportswriter known for his elegant prose. His writing was published 
in newspapers around the country and broadcast on the radio. Grantland 
Rice was born in Murfreesboro, Tennessee, the son of Bolling Hendon Rice, 
a cotton dealer,[1] and his wife, Mary Beulah (Grantland) Rice.[2] His 
grandfather Major H. W. Rice was a Confederate veteran of the Civil War.[3] 
Rice attended Montgomery Bell Academy and Vanderbilt University in Nashville, 
where he was a member of the football team for three years, a shortstop 
on the baseball team, a brother in the Phi Delta Theta Fraternity, and 
graduated with a BA degree in 1901 in classics.[4] On the football team, 
he lettered in the year of 1899 as an end and averaged two injuries a year. 
On the baseball team, he was captain in 1901.[4][5] In 1907 Rice saw what 
he would call the greatest thrill he ever witnessed in his years of watching 
sports during the Sewanee–Vanderbilt football game: the catch by Vanderbilt 
center Stein Stone, on a double-pass play then thrown near the end zone 
by Bob Blake to set up the touchdown run by Honus Craig that beat Sewanee 
at the very end for the SIAA championship.[6] Vanderbilt coach Dan McGugin 
in Spalding's Football Guide's summation of the season in the SIAA wrote, 
"The standing. First, Vanderbilt; second, Sewanee, a mighty good second;" 
and that Aubrey Lanier "came near winning the Vanderbilt game by his brilliant 
dashes after receiving punts."[7] Rice coached the 1908 Vanderbilt baseball 
team. After taking early jobs with the Atlanta Journal and the Cleveland 
News, he later became a sportswriter for the Nashville Tennessean. The 
job at the Tennessean was given to him by former Sewanee Tigers coach Billy 
Suter, who coached baseball teams against which Rice played while at Vanderbilt. 
Afterwards he obtained a series of prestigious jobs with major newspapers 
in the Northeastern United States. In 1914 he began his Sportlight column 
in the New York Tribune. He also provided monthly Grantland Rice Sportlights 
as part of Paramount newsreels from 1925–1954.[8] He is best known for 
being the successor to Walter Camp in the selection of College Football 
All-America Teams beginning in 1925, and for being the writer who dubbed 
the great backfield of the 1924 Notre Dame Fighting Irish football team 
the "Four Horsemen" of Notre Dame. A Biblical reference to the Four Horsemen 
of the Apocalypse, this famous account was published in the New York Herald 
Tribune on October 18, describing the Notre Dame vs. Army game played at 
the Polo Grounds: Outlined against a blue-gray October sky the Four Horsemen 
rode again. In dramatic lore they are known as famine, pestilence, destruction 
and death. These are only aliases. Their real names are: Stuhldreher, Miller, 
Crowley and Layden. They formed the crest of the South Bend cyclone before 
which another fighting Army team was swept over the precipice at the Polo 
Grounds this afternoon as 55,000 spectators peered down upon the bewildering 
panorama spread out upon the green plain below. The passage added great 
import to the event described and elevated it to a level far beyond that 
of a mere football game. This passage, although famous, is far from atypical, 
as Rice's writing tended to be of an "inspirational" or "heroic" style, 
raising games to the level of ancient combat and their heroes to the status 
of demigods. He became even better known after his columns were nationally 
syndicated beginning in 1930, and became known as the "Dean of American 
Sports Writers". He and his writing are among the reasons that the 1920s 
in the United States are sometimes referred to as the "Golden Age of Sports". 
Rice's all-time All-America backfield was Jim Thorpe, Red Grange, Ken Strong, 
and Ernie Nevers.[9] His sense of honor can be seen in his own actions. 
Before leaving for service in World War I, he entrusted his entire fortune, 
about $75,000, to a friend. On his return from the war, Rice discovered 
that his friend had lost all the money in bad investments, and then had 
committed suicide. Rice accepted the blame for putting “that much temptation” 
in his friend's way. Rice then made monthly contributions to the man’s 
widow for the next 30 years.[citation needed] According to author Mark 
Inabinett in his 1994 work, Grantland Rice and His Heroes: The Sportswriter 
as Mythmaker in the 1920s, Rice very consciously set out to make heroes 
of sports figures who impressed him, most notably Jack Dempsey, Babe Ruth, 
Bobby Jones, Bill Tilden, Red Grange, Babe Didrikson Zaharias, and Knute 
Rockne. Unlike many writers of his era, Rice defended the right of football 
players such as Grange, and tennis players such as Tilden, to make a living 
as professionals, but he also decried the warping influence of big money 
in sports, once writing in his column: Rice authored a book of poetry, 
Songs of the Stalwart, which was published in 1917 by D. Appleton and Company 
of New York. Rice married Fannie Katherine Hollis on April 11, 1906; they 
had one child, the actress Florence Rice. Rice died at the age 73 on July 
13, 1954, following a stroke.[2] He is interred at Woodlawn Cemetery in 
The Bronx, New York City. In 1951, in recognition of Rice's 50 years in 
journalism, an anonymous donor contributed $50,000 to establish the Grantland 
Rice Fellowship in Journalism with the New York Community Trust.[2][10] 
In 1954, the Football Writers Association established the Grantland Rice 
Memorial Award, given annually to an outstanding college player selected 
by the group.[11] The Grantland Rice Bowl, an annual college football bowl 
game held from 1964 to 1977, was named in his honor, as was the Grantland 
Rice Award given to the winner. Rice was posthumously awarded the 1966 
J. G. Taylor Spink Award by the Baseball Writers Association of America. 
The award, presented the following year at the annual induction ceremony 
at the Baseball Hall of Fame, is given for "meritorious contributions to 
baseball writing".[12] At Vanderbilt, a four-year scholarship named for 
Rice and former colleague and fellow Vanderbilt alumnus Fred Russell is 
awarded each year to an incoming first-year student who intends to pursue 
a career in sportswriting. Recipients of the Fred Russell–Grantland Rice 
Sportswriting Scholarship include author and humorist Roy Blount, Jr.; 
Skip Bayless of ESPN; Dave Sheinin of The Washington Post; and Tyler Kepner 
of The New York Times.[13] The press box in Vanderbilt Stadium at Vanderbilt 
University is dedicated to Rice and named after Rice's protégé, Fred Russell. 
For many years, a portion of one floor of the Columbia University Graduate 
School of Journalism was designated the "Grantland Rice Suite". Grantland 
Avenue in his hometown of Murfreesboro, Tennessee was named in his honor. 
Rice was mentioned in an I Love Lucy episode entitled "The Camping Trip", 
and was portrayed by actor Lane Smith, also a native of Tennessee, in The 
Legend of Bagger Vance. On June 8, 2011, ESPN's Bill Simmons launched a 
sports and popular culture website titled Grantland, a name intended to 
honor Rice's legacy.[14] It operated for a little more than four years 
until being shuttered by ESPN on October 30, 2015, several months after 
