The city of Grand Junction is the home rule municipality that is the county 
seat and the most populous municipality of Mesa County, Colorado, United 
States. The city has a council–manager form of government, and is the most 
populous municipality in all of western Colorado.[4] Grand Junction is 
situated 247 miles (398 km) west-southwest of the Colorado State Capitol 
in Denver. As of the 2010 census, the population of the city was 58,566.[5] 
Grand Junction is the 15th most populous city in the state of Colorado 
and the most populous city on the Colorado Western Slope. Grand Junction 
serves as a major commercial and transportation hub within the large area 
between the Green River and the Continental Divide. It is the principal 
city of the Grand Junction Metropolitan Statistical Area which had a population 
of 146,723 in 2010 census. The city is located along the Colorado River, 
at its confluence with the Gunnison River which comes in from the south. 
The name "Grand" refers to the historical Grand River; it was renamed as 
the Upper Colorado River in 1921. The word "Junction" refers to the confluence 
of the Colorado and Gunnison rivers. Grand Junction has been nicknamed 
"River City". The city is located near the midpoint of a 30-mile (48 km) 
arcing valley, known as the Grand Valley; since the late 19th century it 
has been a major fruit-growing region. Historically the valley was long 
occupied by the Ute people and by earlier indigenous cultures. It was not 
settled by white European-American farmers until the 1880s. Since the late 
20th century, several wineries have been established in the area. The Colorado 
National Monument, a unique series of canyons and mesas, overlooks the 
city on the west. Most of the area is surrounded by federal public lands 
managed by the US Bureau of Land Management. The Book Cliffs are a prominent 
series of cliffs that define the northern side of the Grand Valley. Interstate 
70 connects the city eastward to Glenwood Springs and Denver and westward 
to Green River, Utah; Salt Lake City is reached to the west via Interstate 
70 and U.S Route 6; and Las Vegas (via Interstate 70 and Interstate 15). 
The Country Jam Ranch is located near Grand Junction just north of I-70 
at the Mack exit. This is a permanent festival site built for music festivals, 
including Country Jam. This event has been held annually since 1992, drawing 
thousands of country music fans to the area.[6] The Grand Junction area 
has developed as a major mountain biking destination, with many bikers 
coming from the Front Range of Colorado, the Salt Lake City area, and as 
far away as California to enjoy the area's abundant single-track trails. 
Two prominent trails are the Tabeguache and Kokopelli trails, the latter 
running from near Loma to Moab, Utah. Fruita, Colorado, with its 18-Road 
trail system, is within 10 miles of the city and has become a major mountain 
biking destination. To the northeast, the weathered Little Bookcliffs cut 
across the skyline. To the southeast soars the Grand Mesa, one of the world's 
largest flat-topped mountains. The photogenic canyons and monoliths of 
the Colorado National Monument form a western wall. In between the three 
natural barriers sprawls Western Colorado's Grand Valley. Cut out of the 
rugged terrain by the Colorado and Gunnison rivers, the valley was one 
of the last locales in the lower 48 states to be settled by pioneer European 
Americans. The region's history stretches much further back in time. A 
little-known aboriginal culture known in archeological terms as the Fremont 
first moved into the area about 200 A.D. The people built and lived in 
pit-houses partially dug into the earth. Their diets included insects, 
small animals and the limited produce grown in tiny gardens. The mysterious 
Fremont left Western Colorado about 1300 A.D. Roughly 100 years later, 
the first bands of nomadic Ute people moved into the region. The various 
Ute tribes eventually occupied much of present-day Colorado and Utah, adapting 
to the terrain and environment by being game hunters and migrating seasonally 
with the herds. The United States forced them onto Indian reservations 
in 1881. Both the Fremont and Ute peoples created numerous examples of 
colorful rock paintings and canyon carvings, which are still visible in 
the 21st century. Some of the rock art can still be spotted today. Until 
1821, the Grand Valley was part of the colonial empire of Spain. Mexico 
achieved its independence from Spain that year, and nominally ruled the 
area until its defeat in the Mexican-American War ending in 1848. During 
the early and mid 1700s of the early colonial era, Spanish and mestizo 
soldiers, Spanish explorers and priests made their way through the region. 
Some were looking for gold, others seeking new trails to Spanish California. 
Most were not too successful. In the 19th century, trail-blazing mountain 
men from the United States were not very successful either. Spanish officials 
worked to keep a monopoly on the fur trade with the Ute, and prevented 
most Americans from entering the territory. But, when Western Colorado 
became part of Mexico in 1821, the new nation allowed trappers and traders 
into the mountain areas. A few of the same mountain men to first see Colorado's 
Western Slope later helped guide U.S. Army expeditions and government surveying 
parties through the region. Some of the Old West's best known explorers 
- Kit Carson, John Charles Fremont, and Capt. John Williams Gunnison - 
all passed through the Grand Valley in the 1840s and 1850s. In spite of 
anti-Indian politicians, a large part of Western Colorado remained Ute 
Indian Territory until September 1881. The United States government required 
their removal to a reservation and the region was opened to homesteaders, 
ranchers and town builders the very day the Ute were being forced out by 
Army troopers. By the time George Crawford, a Kansas politician and real 
estate developer, decided the unclaimed Grand Valley would make a good 
town site, Denver, Colorado already had a population of 50,000. Crawford 
and other European Americans considered Grand Junction to be newly founded 
by them, ignoring the thousands of years of occupation by other peoples. 
According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area 
of 38.6 square miles (100.0 km2), with 38.2 square miles (99.0 km2) of 
it land, and 0.39 square miles (1.0 km2), or 0.87% of it water.[7] The 
downtown area displays a semi-arid climate (Köppen BSk), almost grading 
into an arid type. Grand Junction sits in a large area of high desert lands 
in Western Colorado. Winters are cold and dry, with a January mean temperature 
of 27.4 °F (−2.6 °C). Due to its location west of the Rockies, Grand Junction 
does not receive as much influence from the Chinook winds as locations 
in Colorado east of the Front Range, yet it does receive protection from 
the Arctic masses that can settle to the east of the Rockies. This is illustrated 
by the fact that from December to February, highs reach 50 °F (10 °C) only 
18 days.[8] Lows drop to 0 °F (−17.8 °C) or below on 2.9 nights per year.[8] 
Snowfall is low compared to much of the rest of the state, averaging 19.1 
inches (49 cm) per season; only once in the entire period of record dating 
to 1893, has observed 10 inches (25 cm) in a calendar day, though the median 
is 6.3 inches (16.0 cm), and moreover, snow cover is intermittent.[8] Snow 
is greatest in December and January. Spring warming is gradual but quickens 
when nearing June; the average last freeze date is April 24. Summer is 
hot but dry, with a July mean temperature of 78.2 °F (25.7 °C). Grand Junction 
averages 64.5 days a year with temperatures at 90 °F (32 °C) or above, 
and an average 6.5 days attaining 100 °F (38 °C) or more.[9] Autumn cooling 
is rapid, with the average first freeze date being October 15. The area 
receives little precipitation year-round, averaging 9.42 inches (239.3 mm), 
with no real seasonal spike. Sunshine hours are abundant, even in winter, 
and total just over 3200 hours per year, or 73% of the possible total.[10] 
As of the census[16] of 2000, there were 41,986 people, 17,865 households, 
and 10,540 families residing in the city. The population density was 1,362.6 
people per square mile (526.2/km²). There were 18,784 housing units at 
an average density of 609.6 per square mile (235.4/km²). The racial makeup 
of the city was 91.78% White, 0.60% African American, 0.94% Native American, 
0.76% Asian, 0.12% Pacific Islander, 3.81% from other races, and 1.99% 
from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 10.86% of the 
population. There were 17,865 households out of which 25.5% had children 
under the age of 18 living with them, 46.1% were married couples living 
together, 9.4% had a female householder with no husband present, and 41.0% 
were non-families. 33.2% of all households were made up of individuals 
and 13.8% had one living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average 
household size was 2.23 and the average family size was 2.84. In the city 
the population was spread out with 21.2% under the age of 18, 11.9% from 
18 to 24, 26.3% from 25 to 44, 22.8% from 45 to 64, and 17.9% who were 
65 years of age or older. The median age was 39 years. For every 100 females 
there were 95.1 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 
92.6 males. The population figures are for Grand Junction only; the city 
abuts smaller towns and unincorporated county areas which contribute to 
area commerce. The median income for a household in the city was $33,152, 
and the median income for a family was $43,851. Males had a median income 
of $31,685 versus $22,804 for females. The per capita income for the city 
was $19,692. About 7.5% of families and 11.9% of the population were below 
the poverty line, including 11.8% of those under age 18 and 9.0% of those 
age 65 or over. From the time settlers arrived in the 1880s until the 1960s, 
three of the main economic activities in the region were farming, fruit 
growing, and cattle raising. Fruit orchards, particularly between Grand 
Junction and Palisade to the east, remain important to the region's reputation 
and economy to the present day. Fruits most often grown are peaches, pears, 
apricots, plums, cherries, and, particularly since the 1980s, grapes for 
wine. In this semi-arid environment, these orchards thrive from a combination 
of abundant sunshine and irrigation from a system of canals that divert 
water from the Colorado River. Retail sales have been important to the 
economy for decades (e.g., gasoline, and hunting and fishing related sales), 
and uranium mining-related activities have also been significant.[17] Grand 
Junction was home to the Climax Uranium Mill, a now decommissioned mill 
that provided uranium ore to the US Atomic Energy Commission. Education 
and healthcare have been important to the economy of the area, especially 
since the 1950s, with the rise of Colorado Mesa University and St. Mary's 
Hospital as leading employers in these fields. Vast oil shale reserves 
were known to exist near Parachute, Colorado in the Piceance Basin. The 
oil embargoes of the 1970s and high gas prices resulted in major financial 
interest in the region. Exxon purchased rights and used Grand Junction 
as its seat of operations. The city and the surrounding Grand Valley became 
prosperous in the 1970s and early 1980s largely because of the effects 
of oil shale development. The United States, western Colorado in particular, 
has the largest-known concentration of oil shale in the world (according 
to the Bureau of Land Management) and holds an estimated 800 gigabarrels 
of recoverable oil, enough to meet U.S. demand for oil at current levels 
for 110 years. Known as the "Rock That Burns," the shale can be mined and 
processed to produce oil. In the past it was significantly more expensive 
than conventional oil. Sustained prices above $95 per barrel, however, 
may make extraction economically attractive in the coming years (see Oil 
Shale Economics). ExxonMobil pulled out of the region because of lower 
oil prices, which led to economic hardship in the region. The economic 
bust, known as "Black Sunday" (May 2, 1982) to the locals, started with 
a phone call from the president of Exxon to Governor Richard Douglas Lamm, 
stating that Exxon would cut its losses while retaining mining rights to 
the (then and currently) uneconomic oil. The economic bust was felt statewide, 
as Exxon had invested more than 5 billion USD in the state. Colorado historian 
Tom Noel observed, "I think that was a definite turning point, and it was 
a reminder that we were a boom-and-bust state...There were parallels to 
the silver crash of 1893."[18] By 2008, the economy of Grand Junction appeared 
to be more diverse and stable than it had been in previous decades. Major 
contributors to the economy were health care, tourism, agriculture, livestock, 
and energy mining (gas and oil). Major energy companies had once again 
invested large amounts of money due to increases in oil and natural gas 
prices (such as in the years 2005–2008). However, a major drop (in the 
summer of 2008) of market natural gas prices led to reduced gas well drilling 
and related capital expenditures in the area, significantly slowing the 
Grand Junction economy in 2009. Reports given in 2009 suggested that Grand 
Junction had once again been hard-hit economically, with one report by 
April 2010 listing the area as having had the largest percentage drop in 
employment of any "small city" in the entire United States.[19] By 2008, 
Grand Junction was being discovered by the "nation's elite business and 
leisure travelers" as a destination for private jet travel, with nearby 
Powderhorn Resort and other ski resorts a major attraction.[20] According 
to the City's 2011 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report,[21] the top employers 
are: The Mesa Valley School District No. 51 (website) provides comprehensive 
K-12 public education to the Grand Junction area. School District 51 operates 
five high schools: A full list of schools in Grand Junction can be found 
here on the District 51 school website. There are also a number of private 
schools in Grand Junction, which are not part of School District 51: In 
addition, the district operates numerous middle, elementary, and other 
types of schools. District 51 partners with the Western Colorado Community 
College (WCCC) to operate a vocational school, owned and operated by Colorado 
Mesa University. The WCCC was formerly named, and is still commonly called, 
UTEC. Colorado Mesa University, a public, four-year, liberal arts institution, 
serves as the primary provider of higher education on the Western Slope 
from its campus in central Grand Junction. This campus has an average enrollment 
of just under 10,000 students and offers a variety of degrees, including 
a Masters in Business Administration, Educational Leadership, and ESOL. 
Grand Junction's Colorado National Monument was home to a stage in the 
Coors Classic known as "The Tour of the Moon" due to the Monument's unique 
landscape. Since 1958, the JUCO World Series has been playing at Suplizio 
Field. Most recently at Suplizio Field, a new professional Minor League 
Baseball team affiliate of the Colorado Rockies in the Pioneer Baseball 
League came from Casper and are known as the Grand Junction Rockies. Adjacent 
to Suplizio Field, Stocker Stadium is home to the semi-professional Grand 
Junction Gladiators football team. Both Suplizio Field and Stocker Stadium 
also host Colorado Mesa University as well as School District 51 sporting 
events. Grand Junction Regional Airport (formerly Walker Field Airport) 
serves as the major airport in the area. The airport is located in north 
Grand Junction on Horizon Drive. As of 2011, two-way flights to Denver, 
Salt Lake City, Las Vegas, Dallas, Phoenix, Los Angeles, and Houston were 
available. Amtrak, the national passenger rail system, provides service 
to Grand Junction Station, operating its California Zephyr daily in both 
directions between Chicago and Emeryville, California, across the bay from 
San Francisco. The Grand Valley Transit (GVT) is a regional transit system 
serving the grand valley. It operates 11 bus routes in the area as well 
as a "dial-a-ride" service. Grand Junction, Colorado has placed number 
six in Outdoor Life's 2012 list of The 35 Best Hunting and Fishing Towns 
in the US, number twelve in Forbes 2012 list of The Best Small Places For 
Business and Careers, number five in The New York Times 2011 list of Where 
to Live to Avoid a Natural Disaster, and number seven in Tourism-Review.com's 
2009 list of the 8 Sunniest Cities in the USA.[24] The Grand Junction radio 
market includes all of Mesa County, Colorado.[25] Six AM radio stations 
and more than 25 FM stations are licensed to and/or broadcast from the 
city.[26][27] Grand Junction is serviced by one local newspaper, The "Grand 
Junction Daily Sentinel". The Grand Junction area also receives newspaper 
influence from sources in the greater Denver front range area. Grand Junction 
has ABC, NBC, and CBS television station affiliates under the call signs 
of KJCT-LP (Channel 8), KKCO (Channel 11), and KREX-TV (Channel 5) respectively. 
Also, Grand Junction has a Fox (Channel 4) affiliate station under the 
call sign of KFQX that receives news from the Denver FOX affiliate, KDVR 
(Channel 31) at 9 pm. KGBY (Channel 20) broadcasts Cozi TV programming. 
KRMJ (Channel 18) is the local PBS affiliate, part of the statewide Rocky 
Mountain PBS network. Grand Junction's downtown is home to the historic 
Avalon Theatre which hosts both movies and live entertainment from documentaries 
like March of the Penguins to live performers such as "Weird Al" Yankovic, 
