Grant M. DePorter (born November 7, 1964) is a restaurateur from Chicago, 
U.S., who came to prominence in 2004 after he paid US$113,824.16 for a 
baseball which had played a role in the Chicago Cubs defeat in the 2003 
National League Championship Series, and had the ball destroyed in a nationally 
televised event. The event was an attempt to end the "Curse of the Billy 
Goat" – which has supposedly prevented the Cubs from winning the National 
League since 1945 – and also helped raise a substantial amount of money 
for diabetes research. DePorter graduated from the Latin School of Chicago 
in 1983. He then graduated from the Cornell University School of Hotel 
Administration, and also holds an MBA from Duke University. DePorter has 
worked in, managed or owned over thirty restaurants. He is the President 
and Managing Partner of Harry Caray's Restaurant Group, which owns seven 
restaurants, the best-known being Harry Caray's Italian Steakhouse in the 
Chicago area (named after the late Hall of Fame baseball announcer Harry 
Caray). The restaurants have won several awards, including been voted the 
best steakhouse in Chicago and the best sports restaurant in the United 
States. In October 2003, the Cubs had a built up a commanding lead in the 
NLCS for the National League title against the Florida Marlins. But during 
Game 6 of the series, with the Cubs leading 3-0, a home fan, Steve Bartman, 
unwittingly deflected a vital catch out of the hand of Cubs outfielder 
Moisés Alou. Following this the Marlins rallied, winning not only the game 
but the league and, eventually, the 2003 World Series. Many Cubs fans viewed 
this as a continuation of the "Curse of the Billy Goat", which had hung 
over the team since 1945, when the owner of the local Billy Goat Tavern 
was prevented from bringing his beloved pet goat into the Cubs' home stadium, 
Wrigley Field, and thus swore that the Cubs would never again win the National 
League Championship. DePorter paid $113,824.16 for the infamous "foul ball" 
in order to destroy it, and thus hopefully to put an end to the curse. 
The destruction of the ball took place outside Harry Caray's restaurant 
on February 26, 2004. During its final days, the condemned ball was guarded 
by a team of 13 security men. It was given a massage and a final meal of 
steak, lobster and beer. Academy Award-winning special effects expert Michael 
Lantieri was drafted in as executioner to make the sure that ball went 
out with a bang. On the night of February 26, when a final reprieve failed 
to arrive from the governor, an explosive charge reduced the ball to a 
pile of string. The event was covered live on CNN, ESPN and MSNBC. MythBusters 
hosts Adam Savage and Jamie Hyneman provided commentary for Keith Olbermann's 
coverage of the event. The story made front page news in The New York Times, 
Los Angeles Times and USA Today. Worldwide, there were over 4,000 newspaper 
stories and 2,000 TV stories about the event. Sales of mementoes from the 
ball's execution were used to raise funds for diabetes research. A year 
later, DePorter still trying to end the curse, used the remnants, infused 
in vodka and beer, to flavor a special "Foul Ball Spaghetti" then sold 
to some 4000 diners, Cubs fans all. In addition to acquiring the Bartman 
Ball, DePorter has also bought at auction the 2005 World Series "last out" 
bat which gave the White Sox their first championship in 88 years, Elvis 
Presley's Sunglasses and Sammy Sosa's corked bat. He put out a $50,000 
reward for the missing 2010 Chicago Blackhawks Stanley Cup winning puck. 
The FBI aided DePorter in analyzing a puck that was turned in for the reward 
money. The FBI was able to prove the puck was not the correct puck. After 
DePorter's work with the FBI made the front page of the Chicago Tribune, 
fans came forward with photos and home videos which showed NHL linesman 
Steve Miller (#89) picked up the puck. Miller, in an ESPN interview, denied 
ever seeing or touching the puck. Canadian CBC Sports and TSN then aired 
the never seen before footage from the Net Cam that showed in high definition 
Steve Miller taking the puck. Miller has declined all press interviews 
and the NHL has stated that the matter is closed. At the start of the Cubs' 
2008 baseball season, DePorter revived the Cubs first noted fan club called 
the West Side Rooters Social Club which was founded in 1908 by Cubs shortstop 
Joe Tinker. The fan club's official war cry is "Oof Wah!". DePorter is 
president of the 2008 West Side Rooters Social Club. The late Cubs' Hall 
of Famer Ernie Banks was chairman , Dutchie Caray, Harry Caray's widow, 
is treasurer and Cubs' Hall-of-Famer Ryne Sandberg is secretary. The fan 
club was dismantled by unpopular Cubs' owner Charles Murphy after the Cubs 
had won the World Series in 1908 and the Cubs have not won the World Series 
since. Cub fans hope that by bringing back the West Side Rooters Social 
Club, the Chicago Cubs will finally win the World Series. During the same 
week the Cubs clinched the 2008 Central Division title, DePorter released 
a book that he co-authored called Hoodoo: Unraveling the 100 Year Mystery 
of the Chicago Cubs, an entertaining account of the events contributing 
to the team's World Series drought. In it, DePorter discusses his 2007 
discovery that has the cursed the Cubs since its team owner was snubbed 
at the team celebration dinner right after the Cubs won the 1908 World 
Series. He called this discovery the Curse of Murphy's Law. Everything 
bad that has happened to the Cubs since 1908, a Murphy was involved. In 
1945, the billy goat's name was Murphy, in 1969, the Mets were known as 
Murphy's Mets after GM Johnny Murphy and Mets' announcer Bob Murphy. In 
1984, the Cubs were one game away from going to the World Series and then 
lost all three games at Jack Murphy Stadium, In 2003, Bob Murphy retired, 
the Padres moved out of Jack Murphy Stadium, Harvard presented an Ig Nobel 
Prize for the concept of Murphy's Law ("anything that can go wrong, will"), 
the Murphy's Law TV series debuts and a song called "Murphy's Law" becomes 
a top 10 song in the US. DePorter's discovery of the Murphy's Law curse 
became national news during the 2015 NLCS when the Mets swept the Cubs 
with the help of series MVP Daniel Murphy. DePorter has served on the committees 
of several civic organizations in the Chicago area. He is a past Chairman 
of the Greater North Michigan Avenue Association, the Illinois Restaurant 
Association, the Illinois Tourism Alliance (formerly Visit Illinois), and 
the Magnificent Mile Lights Festival. He also serves on the board of the 
Chicagoland Chamber of Commerce. Grant's father was Donald J. DePorter, 
the founder of Chicago Gateway Green, a non-profit organization dedicated 
to the beautification and greening of Chicago. Since his father's death 
in 1996, Grant currently serves as Chairman of Chicago Gateway Green. Grant's 
mother is the educator Bobbi DePorter, who founded the SuperCamp program 
and the Quantum Learning Network (QLN). Grant attended the very first SuperCamp 
in 1982 as a student, and has served as a Director of the QLN. Grant and 
