The Grand Forks International (GFI) is an annual international invitational 
baseball tournament hosted at James Donaldson Park in Grand Forks, British 
Columbia.[1] The GFI is the largest invitational baseball tournament in 
Canada[2][3] and is a large part of the culture in Grand Forks.[4][5] The 
tournament is also notable for being run entirely by volunteers. The Grand 
Forks International was founded by Larry Seminoff, and the tournament led 
to the existence of the World Baseball Challenge, initially starting in 
2002, at James Donaldson Park.[6] The 2015 prize purse is $54,000. Prior 
winners of the tournament are:[7] Notable Grand Forks International Alumni[12] 
Rule 1: The official rules of baseball, as published by Baseball Canada, 
shall govern the playing of baseball games during the tournament. Specifications 
as to facility, equipment, play-off format, etc. have been modified to 
meet the needs of the tournament. Teams may elect to use the designated 
hitter rule.[13] Rule 2: All games will be nine (9) innings. Extra innings 
to be played to determine winners. Rule 3: Toss of a coin at home plate 
will determine home team for all preliminary round games. Teams with better 
records, as determined by the tournament rules, will be the Home Teams 
for all Money Round games. Rule 4: Teams must be prepared to play ball 
when scheduled. Infield drills will be permitted only if time allows. Rule 
5: The 20 second rule between pitches will be invoked. If the pitcher has 
not delivered the ball to the batter within 20 seconds after receiving 
the ball an automatic ball will be issued to the batter. If the batter 
is not set in the batter’s box within the 20 seconds and the pitcher is 
ready to throw an automatic strike will be issued. Rule 6: After the third 
out of each at bat the teams have 90 seconds to resume play. Rule 7: An 
Eight Run rule will apply to all tournament games except the semi-finals 
and final. If one team is ahead by eight or more runs after the trailing 
team has completed seven innings the game is over. Rule 8: Should circumstances 
arise where a game or games are postponed or cancelled, the Tournament 
Rules Committee (TRC) has the authority to act upon any alteration to the 
tournament format or schedule. Rule 9: There are no restrictions relative 
to roster size. However, teams will not be permitted to add to their roster 
any player who was on the roster of a team eliminated earlier from further 
competition. Rule 10: Should a protest arise, that protest must officially 
be brought to the attention of the home plate umpire, who in turn will 
forward such protest to the Tournament Protest Committee Chairman or designate. 
This Committee will then rule on the identified protest and their decision 
will be final. Rule 11: In the event a contest is forfeited, the team receiving 
the forfeiture shall claim a 7-0 win. The forfeiting team, meanwhile, shall 
surrender all earnings, if any, to the tournament. Rule 12: The top two 
teams in each division will qualify for the tournament’s Money Round. Rule 
13: Two wild card teams with the best record after the top two division 
teams are determined will complete the eight team Money Round. Rule 14: 
Tie Breaker Rule: the following Rule will determine division winners, division 
runner-up teams, wild card teams, and Money Round seeding. Tie Breaker 
Rule: Rule 15: A playoff game of 5 innings will be held to determine the 
second wild card team in the event of all 3 divisions having 3 teams with 
identical 2 - 1 round robin records. Rule 16: This is a wood bat tournament. 
Composite bats are allowed. Rule 17: Any player who is ejected from the 
game is subject to further discipline at the discretion of the Tournament 
