The Grand Slam tournaments, also called majors, are the four most important 
annual tennis events. They offer the most ranking points,[1] prize money, 
public and media attention, the greatest strength and size of field, and 
greater number of "best of" sets for men. The Grand Slam itinerary consists 
of the Australian Open in mid January, the French Open in May and June, 
Wimbledon in June and July, and the US Open in August and September. Each 
tournament is played over a period of two weeks. The Australian and United 
States tournaments are played on hard courts,[a] the French on clay, and 
Wimbledon on grass. Wimbledon is the oldest, founded in 1877, followed 
by the US in 1881, the French in 1891, and the Australian in 1905. However, 
of these four, only Wimbledon was a major before 1924/25, the time when 
all four became designated Grand Slam tournaments. Skipping Grand Slam 
tournaments—especially the Australian Open because of the remoteness, the 
inconvenient dates (around Christmas and New Year's Day) and the low prize 
money—was not unusual before 1982, which was the start of the norm of counting 
Grand Slam titles. The term Grand Slam also, and originally, refers to 
the achievement of winning all four major championships in a single calendar 
year within one of the five events: men's and women's singles; men's, women's, 
and mixed doubles. In doubles, one team may accomplish a Grand Slam playing 
together or one player may achieve it with different partners. The term 
"Grand Slam" without qualification refers to winning the four majors in 
a single calendar year.[2][3][4] Winning the four majors in consecutive 
tournaments but not in the same year is known as a Non-Calendar Year Grand 
Slam, while winning all four majors at any point during the course of a 
career is known as a Career Grand Slam. Winning the gold medal at the Summer 
Olympic Games in addition to the four majors in a one calendar year is 
known as a "Golden Grand Slam" or more commonly the "Golden Slam". Also, 
winning the Year-End Championship (known as ATP World Tour Finals for men's 
singles and doubles disciplines, and WTA Tour Championships for both women's 
disciplines) in the same period is known as a "Super Slam". Together, all 
four Majors in all three disciplines (singles, doubles, and mixed doubles) 
are called a "boxed set" of Grand Slam titles. No male or female player 
has won all twelve events in one calendar year, although a "career boxed 
set" has been achieved by three female players. The term slam for winning 
all of the tricks in the whist family card games (see also whist terms) 
is attested from early in the 17th century. Grand slam for all of the tricks, 
in contrast to small slam or little slam for all but one, dates from early 
in the 19th century.[5] This use was inherited by contract bridge, a modern 
development of whist defined in 1925 that became very popular in Britain 
and America by 1930. Grand slam has been used in golf since 1930, when 
Bobby Jones won the four major championships, two British and two American. 
Although John F. Kieran is widely credited with first applying the term 
"grand slam" to tennis, to describe the winning of all four major tennis 
tournaments in a calendar year, sports columnist Alan Gould had used the 
term in that connection almost two months before Kieran.[6] The possibility 
of being the reigning champion of all the current four Majors did not exist 
until 1924/25, when the International Lawn Tennis Federation designated 
the Australasian, French (before 1925 only open to members of French tennis 
clubs), British and American championship tournaments as the four Majors. 
Before that time only three events: Wimbledon, the World Hard Court Championships 
(held in Paris & once in Brussels) and the World Covered Court Championships 
(held in various locations) were considered the premier international tennis 
events by the ILTF.[7][8] Tony Wilding of New Zealand won all three of 
those earlier majors in one year – 1913. It has been possible to complete 
a Grand Slam in most years and most disciplines since 1925. It was not 
possible from 1940 to 1945 because of interruptions at Wimbledon, the Australian 
and French opens due to the Second World War, the years from 1970 to 1985 
when there was no Australian tournament in mixed doubles, and 1986 when 
there was no Australian Open at all. Phil Dent has pointed out that skipping 
Grand Slam tournaments—especially the Australian Open—was not unusual then, 
before counting Grand Slam titles became the norm.[9] Thus, many players 
had never played the Austral(as)ian amateur or open championships: the 
Doherty brothers, William Larned, Maurice McLoughlin, Beals Wright, Bill 
Johnston, Bill Tilden, René Lacoste, Henri Cochet, Bobby Riggs, Jack Kramer, 
Ted Schroeder, Pancho Gonzales, Budge Patty, Manuel Santana, Jan Kodeš 
and others, while Brookes, Ellsworth Vines, Jaroslav Drobný, Manuel Orantes, 
Ilie Năstase (at 35 years old) and Björn Borg came just once. Beginning 
in 1969, when the first Australian Open was held on the Milton Courts at 
Brisbane, the tournament was open to all players, including professionals 
who were not allowed to play the traditional circuit.[10] Nevertheless, 
except for the 1969 and 1971 tournaments, many of the best players missed 
this championship until 1982, because of the remoteness, the inconvenient 
dates (around Christmas and New Year's Day) and the low prize money. In 
1970, George MacCall's National Tennis League, which employed Rod Laver, 
Ken Rosewall, Andrés Gimeno, Pancho Gonzales, Roy Emerson and Fred Stolle, 
prevented its players from entering the tournament because the guarantees 
were insufficient. The tournament was won by Arthur Ashe.[11] The first 
definitive Grand Slam, of the current four majors, was accomplished when 
Don Budge won all four men's singles Majors in 1938. To date, 17 players 
have completed a Grand Slam, though only six in the most prestigious singles 
titles. Of these players, three have won multiple Grand Slams: Rod Laver 
accomplished the feat twice in men's singles; Margaret Court accomplished 
the feat three times, in two different disciplines – once in women's singles 
and twice in mixed doubles; and Esther Vergeer completed a grand slam twice 
in Women's wheelchair doubles. The four Junior disciplines, boys' and girls' 
singles and doubles, provide limited opportunities to achieve a Grand Slam. 
Players are only eligible from age 13 to 18, with 18-year-olds likely to 
hold a physical advantage. Only Stefan Edberg has completed the Grand Slam 
in a Junior discipline. Australian Open French Open Wimbledon Championships 
US Open In 1982 the International Tennis Federation (ITF) broadened the 
definition of the Grand Slam as meaning any four consecutive major victories, 
including the ones spanning two calendar years.[12] As defined in the constitution 
of the ITF: "The Grand Slam titles are the championships of Australia, 
France, the United States of America and Wimbledon. Players who hold all 
four of these titles at the same time achieve the Grand Slam".[13] As this 
definition differs from the original definition of the Grand Slam as restricted 
to a single calendar year, there has been some controversy in the tennis 
world as regards this redefinition.[14][15] Subsequently, the ITF has distanced 
itself from the 1982 decision, reverting to the traditional calendar-year 
definition (when Martina Navratilova won the 1984 French Open to become 
the reigning champion of all four women's singles, the ITF awarded her 
$1 million Grand Slam bonus in recognition of her achievement).[12] However 
subsequently, the ITF abandoned recognizing non-calendar year grand slams. 
Combining the Grand Slam and non-calendar year Grand Slam, the total number 
of times that players achieved the feat (of being the reigning champion 
in all four majors) expands to 18. Novak Djokovic is the only male singles 
player to accomplish the Grand Slam by this definition during the Open 
Era — winning the four majors consecutively starting with Wimbledon 2015, 
through the French Open 2016. Prior to the Open Era, Don Budge was in that 
same position at the French Championships in 1938 when he completed the 
Grand Slam that began with Wimbledon 1937, then won the remaining majors 
in 1938 – Wimbledon and the U.S. Championships – making Budge, with six 
in a row, the only male to ever win more than four consecutive major tournaments. 
The Bryan brothers (Bob and Mike) were the last to achieve this in men's 
doubles. Several players and teams came up one title short. Todd Woodbridge 
and Mark Woodforde, known collectively as The Woodies, reached the final 
of the 1997 French Open holding all the other three titles, but lost to 
Yevgeny Kafelnikov and Daniel Vacek. In singles, Pete Sampras lost the 
1994 French Open quarterfinal to fellow countryman Jim Courier, having 
won the previous three Majors. Roger Federer in 2006 and 2007 and Novak 
Djokovic in 2012 repeated this, both ultimately losing the French Open 
final to Rafael Nadal. Nadal himself was prevented from achieving this 
feat by his own countryman David Ferrer, who defeated him in the quarterfinal 
of the Australian Open 2011, with Nadal previously having won the French 
Open, Wimbledon and US Open in 2010. The career achievement of all four 
major championships in one discipline is termed a Career Grand Slam in 
that discipline. Dozens of players have accomplished that (column two) 
and 17 have doubled it: won a second championship in each of the four majors 
in one discipline (column three). Two or more career championships in all 
four majors is sometimes called a "Multiple Slam Set". Three players have 
Multiple Slam Sets in two disciplines, one in three disciplines, so 22 
players are counted in the table (column three). Their achievements are 
tabulated below. Eight men and ten women have won Career Grand Slams in 
singles play (rows one and two); among them two men and five women have 
at least two Career Grand Slams in singles (column three). Since the beginning 
of the open era, five men and six women have achieved this (Rod Laver, 
Andre Agassi, Roger Federer, Rafael Nadal, Novak Djokovic; Margaret Court, 
Chris Evert, Martina Navratilova, Steffi Graf, Serena Williams and Maria 
Sharapova). Several singles players have won three major championships 
without achieving the Career Grand Slam: Several doubles players have won 
three major championships without achieving the Career Grand Slam: Only 
six players have completed a Career Grand Slam in both singles and doubles, 
one male (Roy Emerson) and five female (Margaret Court, Doris Hart, Shirley 
Fry Irvin, Martina Navratilova and Serena Williams). Court, Hart and Navratilova 
are the only three players to have completed a "Career Boxed Set", winning 
all four titles in singles, doubles and mixed doubles; this has never been 
done by a male player. The remainder of this section is a complete list, 
by discipline, of all players who have won the Career Grand Slam. Players 
are ordered chronologically by their completion of the Slam. Eight men 
have won the four grand slam tournaments. Two of the eight men achieved 
a double career Slam. Originally, the grand slams were held on grass (Australian, 
Wimbledon, and US Open) and clay (French) and the first four players achieved 
their grand slams on two surfaces. The US Open changed its surface from 
grass to clay in 1975 and then clay to hard court in 1978. The Australian 
Open changed from grass to hard court in 1988. The last four players (Agassi, 
Federer, Nadal, Djokovic) achieved their grand slam on three different 
surfaces: hard court, clay, and grass. Each woman's "first wins" in the 
four Majors are listed chronologically and their ages upon completion of 
the Slam are given in brackets. Five of the ten women achieved at least 
two career Slams, two of the ten have achieved three careers slams and 
Steffi Graf is the only player to achieve four career Slams. At Men's Doubles, 
21 players have won the career Slam including fourteen who "slammed" with 
one partner. The latter are listed first, as seven teams, ignoring any 
major wins with other partners. Five of the 21 men achieved at least a 
double career Slam at Men's Doubles, led by Roy Emerson and John Newcombe 
with triple Slams. At Women's Doubles, 21 players have won the career Slam 
including ten who "slammed" with one partner. Eight of the 22 achieved 
at least a double career Slam at Women's Doubles, led by Martina Navratilova 
with seven or more titles in each Major. At Mixed Doubles, a total of 17 
players have won the career Slam, including seven who "slammed" as a pair 
(won all four with same partner) — an odd number because Margaret Court 
has accomplished a career Grand Slam separately with Ken Fletcher and Marty 
Riessen. The other four of the seven are Doris Hart, Frank Sedgman, Leander 
Paes and Martina Hingis. Also three of the 15 players have accomplished 
multiple career Grand Slams in mixed doubles, led by Margaret Court's quadruple 
Slam. Wheelchair tennis Grand Slams are possible only in men's doubles 
and women's doubles.[b] Wheelchair tennis Grand Slams are possible only 
in men's doubles and women's doubles.[b] Team: Player: Team and Player: 
Team: Player: Player: Team: Player: Helen Wills Moody won all 16 of the 
Grand Slam singles tournaments she played beginning with the 1924 U.S. 
Championships and extending to the 1933 Wimbledon Championships (not counting 
her defaults in the 1926 French and Wimbledon Championships). During this 
period, she won 6 Wimbledons, 4 French Championships, and 6 U.S. Championships. 
She also won the 1924 Summer Olympics during this period. Moody never entered 
the Australian Championships. Doris Hart won all 13 of the Grand Slam mixed 
doubles tournaments she played beginning with the 1951 French Championships 
and extending to the 1955 U.S. Championships. During this period, she won 
5 Wimbledons, 3 French Championships, and 5 U.S. Championships. Tennis 
was an Olympic sport from the inaugural 1896 Summer Olympics through the 
1924 Games, then was dropped for the next 64 years (except as a demonstration 
sport in 1968 and 1984) before returning in 1988. As there were only three 
Major championships designated by the International Lawn Tennis Federation 
before 1925, none of the tennis players who participated in the Olympics 
between 1896 and 1924 had a chance to complete a Golden Grand Slam. However 
although it didn't occur, there was a possibility to complete a Career 
Golden Grand Slam by winning the 1920 Olympics or 1924 Olympics plus each 
of the four grand slams, all of which were present from 1925 onwards. The 
term Golden Slam (initially "Golden Grand Slam") was coined in 1988.[16] 
Only one player has completed the Golden Slam:[17][18] Winning four consecutive 
Grand Slam tournaments and Olympic event in the period of twelve months, 
although not in one year is called a Non-calendar year Golden Slam.[19] 
Only Bob and Mike Bryan have achieved this by winning the 2012 Olympics, 
2012 US Open, 2013 Australian Open, 2013 French Open and 2013 Wimbledon 
Championships. After they won the final at Wimbledon, this was coined the 
"Golden Bryan Slam".[20] A player who wins all four Grand Slam tournaments 
and the Olympic gold medal during his or her career is said to have achieved 
a Career Golden Slam. Serena Williams is the only player to have achieved 
a Career Golden Slam in both singles and doubles.[21] In 1970 a tournament 
was created to reunite the top male players of the season, which is today 
called the ATP World Tour Finals. In 1972 the women's tour introduced the 
same concept, now known as the WTA Tour Championships. Both are contested 
at the end of the year and are the last official competitions of the ATP 
and WTA seasons. Winning this event along with the four Grand Slams and 
the Olympic gold medal is known as completing the Super Slam,[22][23][24] 
an achievement which has only been possible since 1988, when tennis returned 
to the Olympic calendar. No player has ever completed the Super Slam in 
one season. Only one player has completed the Super Slam in the period 
of twelve months: The following players have completed the Super Slam during 
their career: Players who have won three of the four Grand Slam tournaments 
in the same year. Jack Crawford, Lew Hoad, Martina Navratilova and Serena 
Williams won the first three events, but lost the last grand slam tournament.[c] 
Crawford, an asthmatic, won two of the first three sets of the 1933 U.S. 
Championships final against Fred Perry, then tired in the heat and lost 
the last two sets and the match.[25] Simon Youl Todd Woodbridge Note: From 
1977 to 1985, the Australian Open was held in December as the last Major 
of the calendar year. Winning singles, doubles and mixed doubles titles 
at one Grand Slam event is called a Triple Crown.[28][29][30] It has become 
a rare accomplishment in tennis. This is partly because the final match 
in all three disciplines often takes place concurrently in the same day 
if not in consecutive days. Doris Hart for example attained her first Triple 
Crown after playing three Wimbledon final matches held in one single day. 
Notes: Another Grand Slam-related accomplishment is winning a "boxed set" 
of Grand Slam titles – which is at least one of every possible type of 
Major championship available to a player: the singles, doubles, and mixed 
doubles at all four Grand Slam events of the year. This has never been 
accomplished within a year or consecutively across two calendar years. 
The Career Boxed Set refers to winning one of every possible grand slam 
title (singles, doubles, mixed) over the course of an entire career. No 
male player has completed this, although Frank Sedgman came close. He only 
missed out on the French Open singles title. Men who participate in top/elite 
level singles have played comparatively few doubles, and very few mixed 
doubles. So far, only three women have completed the boxed set during their 
careers: Court is not only unique in having two boxed sets, but is also 
unique in the timing of her accomplishments. Her first boxed set was completed 
before the start of the open era, and she has a boxed set achieved solely 
within the open era. Martina Hingis has come closer than any other currently 
active player to joining this elite group. She just needs the French Open 
singles, having reached the final in 1997 and 1999.[31] Prior to Hingis, 
it was Billie Jean King who came close at completing a career boxed set. 
She only needed the Australian Open women's doubles title and although 
she reached the final twice (in 1965 and 1969), she failed to win the title. 
Of the many players who have managed to win a full set of four majors, 
there is a small number who have gone on to win all four majors a second 
or more times. The completion of "Multiple Career Grand Slams" or sometimes 
called "multiple slam sets" (MSS) has been achieved by only 22 unique players 
up to the end of the 2015 Wimbledon. MSS players can be found in each of 
the five tennis disciplines: men's or women's singles, men's or women's 
doubles, mixed doubles. It can also be found in women's wheelchair doubles. 
Of these, five players have completed MSS in more than one discipline: 
Roy Emerson, Martina Navratilova, Frank Sedgman and Serena Williams have 
MSS in two disciplines, Margaret Court has MSS in three disciplines. This 
table shows each multiple occurrence of a complete MSS for each of the 
players who have accomplished multiple slams in a particular tennis discipline. 
The year shown for each of the four majors is the year that particular 
major win was repeated as part of that player's achievement of their second 
(all 22 players) and third (8 players) and fourth (4 players) and fifth 
through seventh (Martina Navratilova, in women's doubles) complete slam 
set of Major wins.[clarification needed] For example, the fourth row shows 
that Margaret Court completed her third career slam set in Women's Singles—winning 
each of the four majors three times—during the 1970 Wimbledon Championships 
(bold). More specific, she won: Australian open 11 times, the third in 
1962; French Open five times, the third in 1969; Wimbledon three times 
(determines the maximum of sets), the third in 1970 and finally US Open 
five times, the third in 1969. Grey background shades lesser achievements 
by the same player in the same discipline (e.g., Court in the eighth row); 
yellow highlights the greatest achievement in the discipline (e.g., Graf 
in the third row). By discipline (numbers of players and table entries) 
Before the Open Era began in 1968, only amateur players were allowed to 
compete in the four majors. Many male top players "went pro" in order to 
win prize money legally, competing on a professional world tour comprising 
completely different events.[32] From 1927 through 1967, the three oldest 
pro events were considered "majors" of the pro tour: the U.S. Pro Tennis 
Championships, French Pro Championship and Wembley Championships.[33][34] 
A player who won all three in a calendar year was considered to achieve 
a "Professional Grand Slam", or "Pro Slam".[33][34] The feat was accomplished 
twice: Three other players won those three major trophies during their 
pro careers: Ellsworth Vines, Hans Nüsslein and Don Budge. The pro slams 
