Grand Rapids is the second-largest city in Michigan, and the largest city 
in West Michigan. It is located on the Grand River about 30 miles (48 km) 
east of Lake Michigan. As of the 2010 census, the city population was 188,040. 
In 2010, the Grand Rapids metropolitan area had a population of 1,005,648, 
and the combined statistical area of Grand Rapids-Muskegon-Holland had 
a population of 1,321,557. Grand Rapids is the county seat of Kent County, 
Michigan.[6] A historic furniture-manufacturing center, Grand Rapids is 
still home to five of the world's leading office furniture companies, and 
is nicknamed Furniture City. Its more common modern nickname of River City 
refers to the landmark river for which it was named. The city and surrounding 
communities are economically diverse, based in the health care, information 
technology, automotive, aviation, and consumer goods manufacturing industries, 
among others. Grand Rapids is the hometown of U.S. President Gerald Ford, 
who is buried with his wife Betty on the grounds of the Gerald R. Ford 
Presidential Museum in the city.[7] For thousands of years, succeeding 
cultures of indigenous peoples occupied this area. Over 2,000 years ago, 
people associated with the Hopewell culture occupied the Grand River Valley.[8] 
Later, a tribe originating from the Ottawa River traveled to the Grand 
River valley, fighting three battles with the Prairie Indians who were 
already established in the area.[9] The tribe later split, with the Chippewas 
settling in the northern lower peninsula, the Pottawatomies staying south 
of the Kalamazoo River and the Ottawa staying in central Michigan.[9] By 
the late 1600s, the Ottawa, who occupied territory around the Great Lakes 
and spoke one of the numerous Algonquian languages, moved into the Grand 
Rapids area and founded several villages along the Grand River.[8][10] 
The Ottawa established on the river, which they called O-wash-ta-nong, 
or far-away-water due to the river's length, where they "raised corn, melons, 
pumpkins and beans, to which they added game of the woods and the fish 
from the streams".[9] In 1740, an Ottawa man who would later be known as 
Chief Noonday and become the future chief of the Ottawa, was born.[11] 
Between 1761 and 1763, Chief Pontiac visited the area annually, gathering 
over 3,000 natives and asking them to volunteer to fight the British in 
Detroit, which would later culminate into Pontiac's War.[9] The Potawatomi 
attacked the Ottawa in 1765, attempting to take the Grand River territory 
but were defeated.[9] By the end of the 1700s, there were an estimated 
1,000 Ottawa living in the Kent County area.[9] After the French established 
territories in Michigan, Jesuit missionaries and traders traveled down 
Lake Michigan and its tributaries.[9] At the start of the 19th century, 
European fur traders (mostly French Canadian and Métis) and missionaries 
established posts in the area among the Ottawa. They generally lived in 
reasonable peace, trading European metal and textile goods for fur pelts. 
In 1806, Joseph and his wife Madeline La Framboise, who was Métis, traveled 
by canoe from Mackinac and established the first trading post in West Michigan 
in present-day Grand Rapids on the banks of the Grand River, near what 
is now Ada Township. They were French-speaking and Roman Catholic. They 
likely both spoke Ottawa, Madeline's maternal ancestral language. After 
the murder of her husband in 1809 while en route to Grand Rapids, Madeline 
La Framboise carried on the trade business, expanding fur trading posts 
to the west and north, creating a good reputation among the American Fur 
Company. La Framboise, whose mother was Ottawa and father French, later 
merged her successful operations with the American Fur Company.[9] By 1810, 
Chief Noonday established a village on the west side of the river with 
about 500 Ottawa.[11] Madeline La Framboise retired the trading post to 
Rix Robinson in 1821 and returned to Mackinac.[9] That year, Grand Rapids 
was described as being the home of an Ottawa village consisting of about 
50 to 60 huts collected on the west side of the river near the 5th Ward, 
with Kewkishkam being the village chief and Chief Noonday being the chief 
of the Ottawa.[12] The first permanent European-American settler in the 
Grand Rapids area was Isaac McCoy, a Baptist minister. General Lewis Cass, 
who commissioned Charles Christopher Trowbridge to establish missions for 
Native Americans in Michigan, ordered McCoy to establish a mission in Grand 
Rapids for the Ottawa.[12] In 1823, McCoy, as well as Paget, a Frenchman 
who brought along a Native American pupil, traveled to Grand Rapids to 
arrange a mission, though negotiations fell through with the group returning 
to the Carey mission for the Potawatomi on the St. Joseph River.[12] In 
1824, Baptist missionary Rev. L. Slater traveled with two settlers to Grand 
Rapids to perform work.[12] The winter of 1824 proved to be difficult, 
with Slater's group having to resupply and return before the spring.[12] 
Slater then erected the first settler structures in Grand Rapids, a log 
cabin for himself and a log schoolhouse.[12] In 1825, McCoy returned and 
established a missionary station.[13] He represented the European-American 
settlers who started arriving from Ohio, New York and New England, the 
Yankee states of the Northern Tier. Shortly after, Detroit-born Louis Campau, 
known as the official founder of Grand Rapids, was convinced by fur trader 
William Brewster, who was in a rivalry with the American Fur Company, to 
travel to Grand Rapids and establish trade there.[12] In 1826, Campau built 
his cabin, trading post, and blacksmith shop on the east bank of the Grand 
River near the rapids, stating that the Native Americans in the area were 
"friendly and peaceable".[12] Campau returned to Detroit, then returned 
a year later with his wife and $5,000 of trade goods to trade with the 
Ottawa and Ojibwa, with the only currency being fur.[12] Campau's longer 
brother Touissant would often assist him with trade and other tasks at 
hand.[12] That year, In 1831 the federal survey of the Northwest Territory 
reached the Grand River; it set the boundaries for Kent County, named after 
prominent New York jurist James Kent. In 1833, a land office was established 
in White Pigeon, Michigan, with Campau and fellow settler Luther Lincoln 
seeking land in the Grand River valley.[12] Lincoln purchased land in what 
is now known as Grandville, while Campau became perhaps the most important 
settler when he bought 72 acres (291,000 m²) from the federal government 
for $90 and named his tract Grand Rapids. Over time, it developed as today's 
main downtown business district.[8] In the spring of 1833, Campau sold 
Joel Guild, who traveled from New York, a plot of land for $25.00, with 
Guild building the first frame structure in Grand Rapids, which is now 
where McKay Tower stands.[12][14] Guild later became the postmaster, with 
mail at the time being delivered monthly from the Gull Lake, Michigan to 
Grand Rapids.[12] Grand Rapids in 1833 was only a few acres of land cleared 
on each side of the Grand River, with oak trees planted in light, sandy 
soil standing between what is now Lyon Street and Fulton Street.[12] By 
1834, the settlement had become more organized. Rev. Turner had established 
a school on the east side of the river, with children on the west side 
of the river being brought to school every morning by a Native American 
on a canoe who would shuttle them across the river. Multiple events happened 
at Guild's frame structure, including the first marriage in the city that 
involved his daughter Harriet Guild and Barney Burton, as well as the first 
town meeting that had a voter total numbered at nine. It was also this 
year that Campau took upon the endeavor of constructing his own frame building 
that was the largest at the time which was built near where present day 
Rosa Parks Circle is.[12] In 1835, many settlers arrived in the area with 
the population growing to about 50 people, with the settlement receiving 
its first doctor, Dr. Wilson, who was supplied with equipment from Campau.[12] 
Lucius Lyon, a Yankee Protestant who would later became a rival to Campau 
arrived in Grand Rapids who purchased the rest of the prime land and called 
his plot the Village of Kent. When Lyon and his partner N. O. Sergeant 
returned after their purchase, they arrived along with a posse of men carrying 
shovels and picks, with the goal of building a mill race. The posse arrived 
to the music of a bugle, startling the settlement with Chief Noonday offering 
Campau assistance to drive back Lyon's posse believing they were invaders. 
Also that year, Rev. Andrew Vizoisky, a Hungarian native educated in Catholic 
institutions in Austria, arrived, presiding over the Catholic mission in 
the area until his death in 1852.[12] That year, Campau, Rix Robinson, 
Rev. Slater and the husband of Chief Noonday's daughter, Meccissininni, 
traveled to Washington, D.C. to speak about the purchase of Ottawa land 
on the west side of the river with President Andrew Jackson.[11] Jackson 
was originally unimpressed with Meccissininni, though Meccissininni, who 
often acquired white customs, asked Jackson for a similar suit to the one 
the president was wearing. While later wearing his suit that was made similar 
to Jackson's, Meccissininni also unknowingly imitated Jackson's hat, placing 
a piece of weed in it, which impressed Jackson since it symbolized mourning 
the death of his late wife.[11] John Ball, representing a group of New 
York land speculators, bypassed Detroit for a better deal in Grand Rapids 
traveling to the settlement in 1836. Ball declared the Grand River valley 
"the promised land, or at least the most promising one for my operations".[15] 
That year, the first steam boat was constructed on the Grand River named 
the Gov. Mason, though the ship wrecked two year later in Muskegon.[12] 
Yankee migrants (primarily English-speaking settlers) and others began 
migrating from New York and New England through the 1830s. Ancestors of 
these people included not only English colonists but people of mixed ethnic 
Dutch, Mohawk, French Canadian and French Huguenot descent from the colonial 
period in New York. However, after 1837, the area saw poor times, with 
many of the French returning to their places of origin, with poverty hitting 
the area for the next few years.[12] The first Grand Rapids newspaper, 
The Grand River Times, was printed on April 18, 1837, describing the village's 
attributes, stating:[12] "Though young in its improvements, the site of 
this village has long been known, and esteemed for its natural advantages. 
It was here that the Indian traders long since made their great depot." 
The Grand River Times continued, saying that the village had grown quickly 
from a few French families to about 1,200 residents, that the Grand River 
was "one of the most important and delightful to be found in the country", 
and described the changing Native American culture in the area.[12] By 
1838, the settlement incorporated as a village, and encompassed an area 
of approximately three-quarters of a mile (1 km) . The first formal census 
occurred in 1845, which recorded a population of 1,510 and an area of 4 
square miles (10 km2). The city of Grand Rapids was incorporated April 
2, 1850.[16] It was officially established on May 2, 1850, when the village 
of Grand Rapids voted to accept the proposed city charter. The population 
at the time was 2,686. By 1857, the city of Grand Rapids' area totaled 
10.5 square miles (27 km2). In October 1870, Grand Rapids became a desired 
location for immigrants, with about 120 Swedes arriving in the United States 
to travel and create a "colony" in the area in one week.[17] In 1880, the 
country's first hydro-electric generator was put to use on the city's west 
side.[18] Grand Rapids was an early center for the automobile industry, 
as the Austin Automobile Company operated here from 1901 until 1921. In 
1945, Grand Rapids became the first city in the United States to add fluoride 
to its drinking water. Downtown Grand Rapids, when the center of business, 
used to host four department stores: Herpolsheimer's (Lazarus in 1987), 
Jacobson's, Steketee's (founded in 1862), and Wurzburg's. Shopping was 
a community event. As with many older cities, these businesses suffered 
as the population moved to suburbs in the postwar era with federal subsidization 
of highway construction. In addition, retail changes in buying habits affected 
business. Consolidation of department stores occurred here and nationally 
in the 1980s and 1990s. An outcropping of gypsum, where Plaster Creek enters 
the Grand River, was known to the Native American inhabitants of the area. 
Pioneer geologist Douglass Houghton commented on this find in 1838.[19][20] 
Settlers began to mine this outcrop in 1841, initially in open cast mines, 
but later underground mines as well. Gypsum was ground locally for use 
as a soil amendment known as "land plaster." The Alabastine Mine in nearby 
Wyoming, Michigan, was originally dug in 1907 to provide gypsum for the 
manufacture of stucco and wall coverings, notably the alabastine favored 
by Arts and Crafts Movement architects. The mine has since been converted 
to a storage facility primarily used for computer servers and Kent County 
document storage. During the second half of the 19th century, the city 
became a major lumbering center, processing timber harvested in the region. 
Logs were floated down the Grand River to be milled in the city and shipped 
via the Great Lakes. The city became a center of fine wood products as 
well. By the end of the century, it was established as the premier furniture-manufacturing 
city of the United States.[21] It was nicknamed "Furniture City" and exhibited 
many of its products at the Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia. "After 
an international exhibition in Philadelphia in 1876, Grand Rapids became 
recognized worldwide as a leader in the production of fine furniture."[22] 
This event in Philadelphia, attended by hundreds of thousands of people, 
helped spark the Colonial Revival movement in American furniture. "Grand 
Rapids furniture" became a byword for well-made reproductions of American 
and English 18th and early 19th-century styles. Furniture companies included 
the William A. Berkey Company and its successors, Baker Furniture Company, 
Williams-Kimp, and Widdicomb Furniture Company.[23] The Grand Rapids Furniture 
Record was the trade paper for the city's industry. Its industries provided 
jobs for many new immigrants from Europe in the late 19th and early 20th 
century, and a Polish neighborhood developed on the west side of the city. 
A furniture-makers' guild was established in 1931 to improve the design 
and craftsmanship of Grand Rapids furniture. National home furnishing markets 
were held in Grand Rapids for about 75 years, concluding in the 1960s. 
By that time, the furniture-making industry had largely shifted to North 
Carolina.[24] Although local employment in the industry is lower than at 
its historic peak, Grand Rapids remains a leading city in office furniture 
production. It incorporated trends to use steel and other manufactured 
materials in furniture, with ergonomic designs for chairs, computer stations, 
and other furnishings.[25] Grand Rapids developed on the banks of the Grand 
River, where there was once a set of rapids, at an altitude of 610 feet 
(186 m) above sea level. Ships could navigate on the river up to this fall 
line, stopping because of the rapids. The river valley is flat and narrow, 
surrounded by steep hills and bluffs. The terrain becomes more rolling 
hills away from the river. The countryside surrounding the metropolitan 
area consists of mixed forest and farmland, with large areas of orchards 
to the northwest. It is approximately 25 mi (40 km) east of Lake Michigan. 
The state capital of Lansing lies about 60 mi (97 km) to the east-by-southeast, 
and Kalamazoo is about 50 mi (80 km) to the south. Grand Rapids is divided 
into four quadrants, which form a part of mailing addresses in Kent County. 
The quadrants are NE (northeast), NW (northwest), SE (southeast), and SW 
(southwest). Fulton Street serves as the north-south dividing line, while 
Division Avenue serves as the east-west dividing line separating these 
quadrants. According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a 
total area of 45.27 square miles (117.25 km2), of which, 44.40 square miles 
(115.00 km2) of it is land and 0.87 square miles (2.25 km2) is water.[1] 
Grand Rapids has a humid continental climate (Köppen Dfa),[26] with very 
warm and humid summers, cold and snowy winters, and short and mild springs 
and autumns. Even though it is located in the middle of the continent, 
the city experiences some maritime effects due to its location east of 
Lake Michigan, including a high number of cloudy days during the late fall 
and winter, delayed heating in the spring, delayed cooling in fall, somewhat 
moderated temperatures during winter and lake effect snow. The city averages 
75.6 in (192 cm) of snow a year, making it one of the snowiest major cities 
in the United States.[27] The area often receives quick and sudden lake 
effect snowstorms, producing significant amounts of snowfall. The months 
of March, April, October and November are transitional months and the weather 
can vary wildly. March has experienced a record high of 87 °F (31 °C) and 
record low of −8 °F (−22 °C). The average last frost date in spring is 
May 1, and the average first frost in fall is October 11, giving the area 
a growing season of 162 days.[28] The city is located in plant hardiness 
zone 6a, while outlying areas are 5b. Some far western suburbs closer to 
the insulating effect of Lake Michigan are located in zone 6b.[29] Summers 
are warm or hot, and heat waves and severe weather outbreaks are common 
during a typical summer. The average temperature of the area is 49 °F (9 °C). 
The highest temperature in the area was recorded on July 13, 1936, at 108 °F 
(42 °C), and the lowest was recorded on February 14, 1899, at −24 °F (−31 °C). 
During an average year, sunshine occurs in 46% of the daylight hours. On 
138 nights, the temperature dips to below 32 °F (0 °C). On average, 9.2 
days a year have temperatures that meet or exceed the 90 °F (32 °C) mark, 
and 5.6 days a year have lows that are 0 °F (−18 °C) or colder. In April 
1956, the western and northern portions of the city and its suburbs were 
hit by a violent tornado which locally produced F5 damage and killed 18.[citation 
needed] With the Grand River flowing through the center of the city, it 
has been prone to floods. From March 25–29, 1904, more than one-half of 
the entire populated portion of the city lying on the west side of the 
river was completely underwater, over twenty-five hundred houses, affecting 
fourteen thousand persons, being completely surrounded. On the 28th, the 
river registered at 19.6 feet (6.0 m), more than two feet (0.61 m) above 
its highest previous mark.[30] More than a hundred years later, from April 
12–25, 2013, the river again flooded, cresting at 21.85 feet (6.66 m) on 
the 21st, causing thousands of residents to evacuate their homes. The city 
skyline shows the Amway Grand Plaza Hotel, formerly the Pantlind, which 
reopened in 1981 after extensive renovations by Marvin DeWinter & Associates. 
This work included the addition of a 29–story glass tower offering panoramic 
views of the city, river and Lake Michigan. The Pantlind Hotel's original 
architects, Warren & Wetmore, were inspired by the work of the Scottish 
neoclassical architect Robert Adam. In its prime, the hotel was rated as 
one of the top ten hotels in the US. The hotel features several restaurants 
well known in Grand Rapids, such as Cygnus. The hotel is owned by Amway 
Hotel Collection, a subsidiary of Amway's holding company Alticor.[34] 
Other prominent large buildings include the JW Marriott Grand Rapids, the 
first JW Marriott Hotel in the Midwest. It is themed from cityscapes of 
Grand Rapids' sister cities: Omihachiman, Japan; Bielsko-Biała, Poland; 
Perugia, Italy; Ga District, Ghana; and Zapopan, Mexico. When the hotel 
was first opened, Amway Hotel corporation hired photographer Dan Watts 
to travel to each of the sister cities and photograph them for the property. 
Each floor of the hotel features photography from one of the cities, which 
is unique to that floor. Cityscapes of these five cities are alternated 
in order, up the 23 floors. The city's tallest building, which postdates 
the above photo, is the River House Condominiums. Completed in 2008, it 
is a 34-story (123.8 m) condominium tower and stands as the tallest all-residential 
building in the state of Michigan.[35] In 1969, Alexander Calder's abstract 
sculpture, La Grande Vitesse, which translates from French as "the great 
swiftness" or more loosely as "grand rapids", was installed downtown on 
the Vandenberg Plaza, the redesigned setting of Grand Rapids City Hall.[36] 
It was the first work of public art in the United States funded by the 
National Endowment for the Arts.[37] Since then, the city has hosted an 
annual Festival of the Arts on the plaza, now known informally as "Calder 
Plaza".[36][38] During the first weekend in June, several blocks of downtown 
surrounding the Calder stabile in Vandenberg Plaza are closed to traffic. 
The festival features several stages with free live performances, food 
booths selling a variety of ethnic cuisine, art demonstrations and sales, 
and other arts-related activities. Organizers bill it as the largest all-volunteer 
arts festival in the United States. Vandenberg Plaza also hosts various 
ethnic festivals throughout the summer season. Summer concludes with Celebration 
on the Grand the weekend after Labor Day, featuring free concerts, fireworks 
display and food booths. 'Celebration on the Grand' is an event that celebrates 
life in the Grand River valley. Each October, the city celebrates Polish 
culture, historically based on the West side of town, with Pulaski Days. 
In 1973, Grand Rapids hosted Sculpture off the Pedestal, an outdoor exhibition 
of public sculpture, which assembled works by 13 world-renowned artists, 
including Mark di Suvero, John Henry, Kenneth Snelson, Robert Morris, John 
Mason, Lyman Kipp and Stephen Antonakos, in a single, citywide celebration. 
Sculpture off the Pedestal was a public/private partnership, including 
financial support by the National Endowment for the Arts, educational support 
from the Michigan Council for the Arts, and in-kind contributions from 
individuals, business and industry. Fund-raising events, volunteers and 
locals housing artists contributed to the public character of the event. 
On November 10, 2004, the grand premiere of the film The Polar Express 
was held in Grand Rapids. It was adapted from the children's book by author 
and illustrator Chris Van Allsburg, who lives in the city. His main character 
in the book (and movie) also lives in Grand Rapids and the movie was set 
in the city. The Meijer Gardens created a Polar Express display, as part 
of their larger Christmas Around the World exhibit. In mid-2004, the Grand 
Rapids Art Museum (GRAM) began construction of a new, larger building for 
its collection; it opened in October 2007 at 101 Monroe Center NW. The 
new building site faces the sculpture Ecliptic, by Maya Lin, at Rosa Parks 
Circle. The museum was completed in 2007. It was the first new art museum 
to achieve gold-level LEED certification by the U.S. Green Building Council. 
The first ArtPrize, the world's largest art competition determined by public 
voting, took place in Grand Rapids from September 23 through October 10, 
2009. This event was founded by Rick DeVos, grandson of Amway Corp. co-founder 
Richard DeVos, who offered $449,000 in cash prizes. A total of 1,262 artists 
exhibited their work for two weeks, and a total of 334,219 votes were cast. 
First prize, including a $250,000 cash prize, went to Brooklyn painter 
Ran Ortner.[39] ArtPrize 2010 was held September 22 through October 10, 
2010, with work by 1,713 artists on display. The first prize was awarded 
to Grand Rapids artist Chris LaPorte.[40] In 2012, Grand Rapids tied with 
Asheville, North Carolina, for "Beer City USA". The competition was held 
by casting votes online for cities around the United States. Prominent 
breweries in the area such as B.O.B's Brewery, Brewery Vivant, Founders 
Brewing Company, Grand Rapids Brewing Co., Hideout, HopCat and Schmohz 
have created the culture necessary to win the award.[41] In 2013, Grand 
Rapids was the sole winner of "Beer City USA", taking the prize with more 
votes than those combined for the second-place Kalamazoo, Michigan, and 
the third-place Asheville, North Carolina.[42] Grand Rapids is the home 
of John Ball Zoological Garden, Belknap Hill, and the Gerald R. Ford Museum. 
He and former First Lady Betty Ford were buried on the site. Significant 
buildings in the downtown include the DeVos Place Convention Center, Van 
Andel Arena, the Amway Grand Plaza Hotel, and the JW Marriott Hotel. The 
Urban Institute for Contemporary Arts is located downtown, and houses art 
exhibits, a movie theater, and the urban clay studio.[43] Along the Grand 
River are reconstructed earthwork burial mounds, which were constructed 
by the prehistoric Hopewell tribe; a fish ladder, and a riverwalk. Grand 
Rapids is home to the Van Andel Museum Center. Founded in 1854, it is among 
the oldest history museums in the United States. The museum's sites currently 
include its main building, constructed in 1994 on the west bank of the 
Grand River (home to the Roger B. Chaffee Planetarium); the Voigt House 
Victorian Museum, and the City Archives and Records Center. The latter 
held the museum and planetarium prior to 1994. Since the late 20th century, 
the museum has hosted notable exhibitions, including one on the Dead Sea 
Scrolls, and The Quest for Immortality: the Treasures of Ancient Egypt. 
A non-profit institution, it is owned and managed by the Public Museum 
of Grand Rapids Foundation. Heritage Hill, a neighborhood directly east 
of downtown, is one of the largest urban historic districts in the country. 
The first "neighborhood" of Grand Rapids, its 1,300 homes date from 1848 
and represent more than 60 architectural styles. Of particular significance 
is the Meyer May House, a Prairie-style home designed by Frank Lloyd Wright 
in 1908.[44] It was commissioned by local merchant Meyer May, who operated 
a men's clothing store (May's of Michigan). The house is now owned and 
operated by Steelcase Corporation. Steelcase manufactured the furniture 
for the Johnson Wax Building in Racine, Wisconsin, which was also designed 
by Wright and is recognized as a landmark building. Because of those ties, 
Steelcase purchased and restored the property in the 1980s. The restoration 
has been heralded as one of the most accurate and complete of any Wright 
restoration. The home is used by Steelcase for special events and is open 
to the public for tours. Grand Rapids is home to many theatres and stages, 
including the newly reconstructed Civic Theatre (also known as the Meijer 
Majestic), the city's largest theatre; DeVos Hall, and the convertible 
Van Andel Arena. Further east of downtown is the historic Wealthy Theatre. 
Studio 28, the first megaplex in the United States, is located in Grand 
Rapids; it reopened in 1988 with a seating capacity of 6,000.[45] The megaplex 
ceased operations on November 23, 2008.[46][47] The Grand Rapids company 
also owns many theaters around West Michigan. In Grand Rapids Township, 
the Frederik Meijer Gardens and Sculpture Park combine 125 acres (1 km2) 
of world-class botanical gardens and artwork from such American sculptors 
as Mark di Suvero and Alexander Calder, and French artists Edgar Degas 
and Auguste Rodin. The Gardens' amphitheater plays host to numerous concerts 
each summer, featuring such acts as Jonny Lang, The Pointer Sisters, Lyle 
Lovett, Cowboy Junkies, and B.B. King. The Gardens were mentioned in Patricia 
Schultz's book 1,000 Places to See Before You Die.[48] In 2014, Grand Rapids 
was named the No. 1 U.S. travel destination by Lonely Planet. Other notable 
destinations on Lonely Planet's Top 10 list included Yosemite National 
Park, Boston, Massachusetts, and Las Vegas, Nevada.[49] In 2016, The New 
York Times ranked Grand Rapids 20th on the 52 Places to Go in 2016 list, 
with Grand Rapids featured among other cities such as Abu Dhabi, Bordeaux 
and Mexico City.[50] Grand Rapids has a number of popular concert venues 
in which numerous bands have performed, including the Orbit Room, the DAAC, 
the Intersection, DeVos Performance Hall, Van Andel Arena, Royce Auditorium 
in St. Cecilia Music Center, Forest Hills Fine Arts Center, The Pyramid 
Scheme, and the Deltaplex. The Schubert Male Chorus of Grand Rapids is 
considered the oldest independent continuing male chorus in America. Founded 
by Henry C. Post on November 19, 1883, the chorus continues to perform 
a variety of music. The Grand Rapids Symphony, founded in 1930, is the 
largest performing arts organization in Grand Rapids with a roster of about 
50 full-time and 30 part-time musicians. In addition to its own concert 
series, the orchestra under music director Marcelo Lehninger accompanies 
productions by Grand Rapids Ballet and Opera Grand Rapids, presenting more 
than 400 performances a year.[51] The Grand Rapids Barbershop Chapter Great 
Lakes Chorus is an all-male a cappella barbershop harmony chorus, including 
quartets. It is one of the oldest chapters in the Barbershop Harmony Society 
(formally known as the Society for the Preservation and Encouragement of 
Barber Shop Quartet Singing in America, or SPEBSQSA). The Grand Rapids 
chapter organized on November 1, 1939, for quartet singers; it is credited 
for holding the first society-sanctioned quartet contest in the "Michigan 
District" (now Pioneer District) in March 1941. In 1944 the Grand Rapids 
Chapter is credited with having the first International Quartet champions, 
"The Harmony Halls." In 1947 the Great Lakes Chorus (then called the Grand 
Rapids Chorus) was founded. In 1953 the first International Chorus Competition 
was held, and the Great Lakes Chorus took First Place, the first "International 
Convention Championship Chorus," under the direction of Robert Weaver.[52] 
The chorus is still very active as a non-profit singing for community, 
competition, and contracted performances. Grand Rapids Ballet Company was 
founded in 1971 and is Michigan's only professional ballet company.[53] 
The ballet company is located on Ellsworth Avenue in the Heartside neighborhood, 
where it moved in 2000. In 2007, it expanded its facility by adding the 
LEED-certified Peter Wege Theater.[53] Opera Grand Rapids, founded in 1966, 
is the state's longest-running professional company.[54] In February 2010, 
the opera moved into a new facility in the Fulton Heights neighborhood.[55] 
A January 21, 2011 Newsweek article listed Grand Rapids as a "dying city." 
Director Rob Bliss and producer Scott Erickson filmed a vigorous, 5,000-person 
community response. The Grand Rapids LipDub, released May 26, was the first-ever 
citywide lip dub video; film critic Roger Ebert described it as "the greatest 
music video ever made".[56] The video held the world record for largest 
lip dub for two years and has amassed over 5 million views on YouTube; 
PRNewswire awarded its producers the "Earnie Award" for Best Use of Video 
in Social Media.[57] Grand Rapids is also home to Art Prize, the largest 
art exposition in the U.S. Art Prize began in 2009 with the over 200,000 
visitors and has since doubled the amount of visitors it receives each 
year. Artprize receives many international visitors each year and is still 
growing with over 1,500 entries across 200+ venues in 2015.[citation needed] 
Several professional and semi-pro sports teams call the Grand Rapids area 
home: The Whitecaps won the Championship Series six times (1996, 1998, 
2004, 2006, 2007, 2015) and had the best regular-season record five times 
(1997, 1998, 2000, 2006, 2007). The Griffins won the IHL Fred A. Huber 
Trophy (regular season champion) in 2001, and were AHL Calder Cup Champions 
in the 2012-2013 season. Former professional sports teams include Grand 
Rapids Rampage, Grand Rapids Hoops (Grand Rapids Mackers), Grand Rapids 
Flight, Grand Rapids Owls (1977–80), Grand Rapids Rockets, and Grand Rapids 
Chicks Each year the Fifth Third River Bank Run is held in downtown Grand 
Rapids. It draws participants from around the world; in 2010 there were 
over 22,000 participants. The Grand Rapids Marathon is held in downtown 
Grand Rapids in mid-October, usually on the same weekend as the Detroit 
Marathon. Amateur sporting organizations in the area include Grand Raggidy 
Roller Derby WFTDA league, Grand Rapids Rowing Association,[58] Grand Rapids 
Rugby Club,[59] and the West Michigan Wheelchair Sports Association.[60] 
The West Michigan Sports Commission was the host organizing committee for 
the inaugural State Games of Michigan, held in Grand Rapids from June 25 
to 27, 2010.[61][62] The Grand Rapids Press is a daily newspaper, while 
Advance Newspapers publishes a group of weekly papers providing community-based 
news. Gemini Publications is a niche, regional publishing company that 
produces the weekly newspaper Grand Rapids Business Journal; the magazines 
Grand Rapids Magazine, Grand Rapids Family and Michigan Blue; and several 
other quarterly and annual business-to-business publications. Two free 
monthly entertainment guides are distributed: REVUE,[63] which covers music 
and the arts, and RECOIL, which covers music and offers Onion-style satire. 
The Rapidian is an online-based citizen journalism project funded by grants 
from the Knight Foundation and local community foundations.[64] It is reprinted 
or cited by other local media outlets.[65] Grand Rapids, combined with 
nearby Kalamazoo and Battle Creek, was ranked in 2010 as the 41st-largest 
television market in the U.S. by Nielsen Media Research.[66] The market 
is served by stations affiliated with major American networks including: 
WLLA (channel 64, Independent), WOOD-TV (channel 8, NBC), WOTV (channel 
41, ABC), WZZM-TV (channel 13, ABC), WXMI (channel 17, Fox), WXSP-CD (channel 
15, MyNetworkTV) and Kalamazoo-based WWMT (channel 3, CBS), along with 
surrounding stations based from Muskegon and Battle Creek. WGVU-TV is the 
area's PBS member station. The Grand Rapids area is served by 16 AM radio 
stations and 28 FM stations.[67] Headquartered in Grand Rapids, Spectrum 
Health is the largest employer in West Michigan, with 23,000 staff and 
1,300 physicians.[68] Spectrum Health's Meijer Heart Center, Lemmen-Holton 
Cancer Pavilion, and Butterworth Hospital, a level I trauma center, are 
located on the Grand Rapids Medical Mile, which has world-class facilities 
focusing on the health sciences. These facilities include the Van Andel 
Research Institute, Grand Valley State University's Cook-DeVos Center for 
Health Sciences, and the Michigan State University College of Human Medicine 
medical school's Secchia Center, along with Ferris State University's College 
of Pharmacy. Nearly a billion dollars has been invested in the Spectrum 
Health Cancer Pavilion, the Spectrum Health Helen DeVos Children's Hospital, 
and the expansion to the Van Andel Institute. These facilities have attracted 
numerous health science businesses to the area. Grand Rapids has long been 
a center for furniture, automobile, and aviation manufacturing; American 
Seating, Steelcase, Haworth and Herman Miller, major manufacturers of office 
furniture, are based in the Grand Rapids area. The area serves as an important 
location for GE Aviation Systems. In 1880, Sligh Furniture Company started 
manufacturing furniture.[69] In 1881, the Furniture Manufacturers Association 
(FMA) was organized in Grand Rapids; it was the first furniture manufacturing 
advocacy group in the country.[70] Also since 1912, Kindel Furniture Company,[71] 
and since 1922, the Hekman/Woodmark Furniture Company,[72] have been designing 
and manufacturing traditional American furniture in Grand Rapids. All of 
these companies are still producing furniture today. The Grand Rapids area 
is home to a number of well-known companies that include: Alticor/Amway 
(a consumer goods manufacturer and distributor), Bissell (a privately owned 
vacuum cleaner and floor care product manufacturer), Highlight Industries 
(an industry leader in stretch wrap equipment), Spartan Stores (a food 
distributor and grocery store chain), Foremost Insurance Company (a specialty 
lines insurance company), Meijer (a regional supercenter chain), GE Aviation 
(formerly Smiths Industries, an aerospace products company), Wolverine 
World Wide (a designer and manufacturer of shoes, boots and clothing), 
MC Sports, Inc. (a regional sports retail chain), Universal Forest Products 
(a building materials company), and Schuler Books & Music, one of the largest 
independent bookstores in the country.[citation needed] The city is known 
as a center of Christian publishing, home to Zondervan, Baker Books, Kregel 
Publications, Eerdmans Publishing and Our Daily Bread Ministries, as well 
as Family Christian Stores, a Christian bookstore chain. The surrounding 
area is noted for its fruit production. Due to its close proximity to Lake 
Michigan, the climate is considered prime for apple, peach, and blueberry 
farming. In 2010 Grand Rapids was named the "most sustainable midsize city 
in the U.S." by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Civic Leadership Center and 
Siemens Corp. Grand Rapids was chosen over finalist cities Davenport, Iowa 
and Hoover, Alabama.[73] As of the census[75] of 2010, there were 188,040 
people, 72,126 households, and 41,015 families residing in the city. The 
population density was 4,235.1 inhabitants per square mile (1,635.2/km2). 
There were 80,619 housing units at an average density of 1,815.7 per square 
mile (701.0/km2). The racial makeup of the city was 64.6% White (59.0% 
Non-Hispanic White[76]), 20.9% African American, 0.7% Native American, 
1.9% Asian, 0.1% Pacific Islander, 7.7% from other races, and 4.2% from 
two or more races. Hispanic or Latino residents of any race were 15.6% 
of the population.[77] There were 72,126 households of which 31.1% had 
children under the age of 18 living with them, 35.5% were married couples 
living together, 16.4% had a female householder with no husband present, 
5.0% had a male householder with no wife present, and 43.1% were non-families. 
32.3% of all households were made up of individuals and 10.1% had someone 
living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size 
was 2.49 and the average family size was 3.20. The median age in the city 
was 30.8 years. 24.7% of residents were under the age of 18; 14.5% were 
between the ages of 18 and 24; 28.6% were from 25 to 44; 21.2% were from 
45 to 64; and 11.1% were 65 years of age or older. The gender makeup of 
the city was 48.7% male and 51.3% female. According to a 2007 American 
Community Survey, the largest ancestry groups in Grand Rapids were those 
of German (23.4% of the population), Dutch (21.2%), English (15.9%), Irish 
(11.4%), Polish (6.5%) and French (5.1%) heritage.[78] There were 73,217 
households out of which 32.0% had children under the age of 18 living with 
them, 40.3% were married couples living together, 15.8% had a female householder 
with no husband present, and 39.4% were non-families. 30.8% of all households 
were made up of individuals and 10.0% had someone living alone who was 
65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.57 and the average 
family size was 3.24. In the city the age distribution of the population 
shows 27.0% under the age of 18, 13.1% from 18 to 24, 31.5% from 25 to 
44, 16.7% from 45 to 64, and 11.6% who were 65 years of age or older. The 
median age was 30 years. For every 100 females there were 95.8 males. For 
every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 92.5 males. The median income 
for a household in the city was $37,224, and the median income for a family 
was $44,224. Males had a median income of $33,050 versus $26,382 for females. 
The per capita income for the city was $17,661. 15.7% of the population 
and 11.9% of families were below the poverty line. Out of the total people 
living in poverty, 19.4% are under the age of 18 and 10.4% are 65 or older. 
In recent decades, Grand Rapids and its suburban areas have seen their 
Hispanic communities grow. Between 2000 and 2010, the Hispanic population 
in Grand Rapids grew from 25,818 to 29,261, increasing over 13% in a decade.[79] 
Grand Rapids's Arab American population also includes some recent immigrants, 
as well as older generation Lebanese Americans.[80] Grand Rapids has a 
significant Dutch Reformed population. The Christian Reformed Church in 
North America (CRCNA) has a large following in Grand Rapids; its denominational 
offices are located on the southeast side of the city. The CRCNA has over 
230 congregations and almost 100,000 members in Michigan as of 2010.[81] 
The denomination is concentrated in the western part of the state, where 
a substantial number of immigrants from the Netherlands settled; a majority 
of them were followers of the Reformed faith, having taken part in the 
Secession of 1834.[82] As of 2012, the Christian Reformed Church in North 
America has nearly 1,100 congregations and over 250,000 members nationwide.[83] 
The Grand Rapids-Wyoming Metropolitan Area has 149 Christian Reformed Churches 
with 77,389 members.[84] The Reformed Church in America (RCA) has about 
154 congregations and 76,000 members mainly in Western Michigan,[85] heavily 
concentrated in the cities in Grand Rapids, Holland, and Zeeland. The main 
office of the denomination is also in Grand Rapids.[86] The Grand Rapids-Wyoming 
metropolitan area has 86 congregations with almost 49,000 members. The 
Protestant Reformed Churches in America (PRCA) traces its roots to the 
First Protestant Reformed Church (Grand Rapids, Michigan) whose pastor 
was Herman Hoeksema, the founder of the church.[87] A majority of the PRCA's 
Classis East churches, about 13 congregations, are located around Grand 
Rapids.[84][88][89] The United Reformed Churches in North America has 12 
congregations in Grand Rapids area; these congregations form the Classis 
of Michigan.[90][91] The Heritage Reformed Congregations' flagship and 
largest church is located in Grand Rapids. The Netherlands Reformed Congregations 
in North America has 2 churches.[92] The PC(USA) had 12 congregtions and 
7,000 members in the Grand Rapids-Wyoming Metropolitan statistical area, 
the United Church of Christ had also 14 congregations and 5,400 members.[84] 
Grand Rapids is home to the Roman Catholic Diocese of Grand Rapids, which 
was created on May 19, 1882 by Pope Leo XIII. The Diocese comprises 176,098 
Catholics in West Michigan, 102 parishes, and four high schools: Catholic 
Central High School, Grand Rapids; Muskegon Catholic Central High School, 
Muskegon; St. Patrick High School, Portland; and West Catholic High School, 
Grand Rapids.[93] David John Walkowiak is the current Bishop of Grand Rapids. 
The offices of the West Michigan Annual Conference of the United Methodist 
Church are located in the East Hills Neighborhood of Grand Rapids. The 
West Michigan Annual Conference represents more than 400 local United Methodist 
churches in the western half of the lower peninsula with approximately 
65,000 members in total.[94] Grand Rapids is also home to the United Methodist 
Community House, whose mission is to increase the ability of children, 
youth, adults and families to succeed in a diverse community.[95] In 2010, 
The United Methodist Church had 61 congregations and 21,450 members in 
the Grand Rapids Metropolitan area.[84] Like the surrounding counties, 
the Grand Rapids area has traditionally been a stronghold for the Republican 
Party, but the city has been supportive of Democratic candidates. The city 
is the center of the 3rd Congressional District, currently represented 
by Republican Justin Amash. Former President Gerald Ford represented the 
district from 1949 to 1973 and is buried on the grounds of his Presidential 
Museum in Grand Rapids. The city and its suburbs are home to several major 
donors to the national Republican Party, including the DeVos family and 
Peter Secchia, former Ambassador to Italy. The city proper tends to elect 
Democrats. Both of its representatives in the Michigan State House of Representatives 
are Democrats, and in the six most recent presidential elections, Democratic 
candidates Bill Clinton, Al Gore, John Kerry, and Barack Obama won a majority 
or plurality of votes in the city of Grand Rapids. The last Republican 
candidate for President to carry the city was George H.W. Bush in 1988.[citation 
needed] Under Michigan law, Grand Rapids is a home rule city and adopted 
a city charter in 1916 providing for the Commission-Manager form of municipal 
government. Under this system, the political responsibilities are divided 
between an elected City Commission and a hired full-time City Manager. 
Two part-time Commissioners are elected to four-year terms from each of 
three wards, with half of these seats up for election every two years. 
The part-time Mayor is elected every four years by the city at large, and 
serves as chair of the Commission, with a vote equal to that of a Commissioner. 
The races—held in odd-numbered years—are formally non-partisan, although 
the party and other political affiliations of candidates do sometimes come 
up during the campaign period. The Commission sets policy for the city, 
and is responsible for hiring the City Manager and other appointed officials.[96] 
Three-term mayor John H. Logie declined to run for re-election in 2003. 
Logie felt the position should be made full-time, but to avoid the question 
becoming a referendum on whether he should hold the job full-time, he announced 
that he would not run for re-election.[97] The voters kept the position 
part-time, and George Heartwell succeeded him in January 2004.[98] In 2014 
a narrowly-approved ballot initiative imposed a limit of two terms on the 
mayor and city commissioners, preventing Heartwell from seeking a fourth 
term.[99] Commissioner Rosalynn Bliss, also unable to run for another term 
in that position, was then elected mayor, receiving a clear majority in 
the August 2015 primary. K–12 public education is provided by the Grand 
Rapids Public Schools as well as a number of charter schools. Grand Rapids 
is home of the oldest co-educational Catholic high school in the United 
States, Catholic Central High School.[100] National Heritage Academies, 
which operates charter schools across several states, has its headquarters 
in Grand Rapids.[101] Grand Rapids is home to several colleges and universities. 
The private, religious schools: Aquinas College, Calvin College, Cornerstone 
University, Grace Bible College, and Kuyper College, each have a campus 
within the city. Thomas M. Cooley Law School, a private institution, also 
has a campus in Grand Rapids. Northwood University, a private university 
with its main campus in Midland, Michigan, has a satellite campus located 
downtown near the "medical mile." The for-profit vocational school ITT 
Technical Institute has one of its 105 campuses (located across 37 states 
of the US)[103] located in Grand Rapids as well. Davenport University, 
a private, non-profit, multi-location university with 14 campuses statewide, 
has its main campus just outside Grand Rapids. As for public tertiary institutions, 
Grand Rapids Community College (GRCC) maintains a campus downtown and facilities 
in other parts of the city and surrounding region. Grand Valley State University, 
with its main campus located in nearby Allendale, continues to develop 
its presence downtown by expanding its Pew campus, begun in the 1980s on 
the west bank of the Grand River.[102] This downtown campus currently consists 
of 67 acres (27 ha) in two locations and is home to 12 buildings and three 
leased spaces.[104] Ferris State University has a growing campus downtown, 
including the Applied Technology Center (operated with GRCC) and the Kendall 
College of Art and Design, a formerly private institution that now is part 
of Ferris. Ferris State also has a branch of the College of Pharmacy located 
downtown on the medical mile. Western Michigan University has a long-standing 
graduate program in the city, with facilities downtown and in the southeast. 
The Van Andel Institute, a cancer research institute established in 1996, 
also resides on the medical mile; the institute established a graduate 
school in 2005 to train PhD students in cellular, genetic, and molecular 
biology.[citation needed] Grand Rapids is home to the Secchia Center medical 
education building, a $90 million, seven-story, 180,000-square-foot (17,000 m2) 
facility, at Michigan Street and Division Avenue, part of the Grand Rapids 
Medical Mile. The building is home to the Grand Rapids Campus of the Michigan 
State University College of Human Medicine. This campus trains medical 
students through all four years of their medical education. The state-of-the-art 
facility includes clinical examination rooms, simulation suites, classrooms, 
offices and student areas.[105] The first improved road into the city was 
completed in 1855. This road was a private, toll plank road built from 
Kalamazoo through Wayland. It was a primary route for freight and passengers 
until about 1868. This road connected to the outside world via the Michigan 
Central Railroad at Kalamazoo. The first railroad into the city was the 
Detroit and Milwaukee Railroad, which commenced service in 1858. In 1869 
the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railway connected to the city. The 
Grand Rapids and Indiana Railroad began passenger and freight service to 
Cedar Springs, Michigan, on December 25, 1867, and to Fort Wayne, Indiana, 
in 1870. This railroad expanded service to Muskegon in 1886. The Grand 
Rapids, Newaygo and Lake Shore Railroad completed a line to White Cloud 
in 1875. In 1888 the Detroit, Lansing and Northern Railroad connected with 
Grand Rapids. Grand Rapids was a home to one of the first regularly scheduled 
passenger airlines in the United States when Stout Air Services began flights 
from the old Grand Rapids airport to Detroit (Ford Airport in Dearborn, 
Michigan), on July 31, 1926.[106] I-96 runs along the northern and northeastern 
sides of the city, linking with Muskegon to the west and Lansing and Detroit, 
Michigan, to the east I-196, also named the Gerald R. Ford Freeway, runs 
east–west through the city, connecting to I-96 just east of Grand Rapids 
and I-94 in Benton Township I-296, an unsigned route running concurrently 
with US 131 between I-96 and I-196 BS I-196, a business spur of I-196 that 
follows a section of Chicago Drive US 131 runs north-south through the 
city, linking with Kalamazoo to the south and Cadillac to the north Bus. 
US 131, a business loop traversing downtown Grand Rapids M-6 is the Paul 
B. Henry Freeway running along the south side connecting I-96 and I-196 
M-11 runs along Ironwood/Remembrance Road, Wilson Avenue, and 28th Street 
M-21 is Fulton Street to the east M-37 follows Alpine Avenue to the north, 
I-96, East Beltline Avenue and Broadmoor Avenue to the south M-44 is East 
Beltline north of I-96 Conn. M‑44 runs along Plainfield Avenue M-45 follows 
Lake Michigan Drive west toward Allendale and Lake Michigan M-121 follows 
Chicago Drive southwest of Grand Rapids to Holland A-45 is Old US 131 south 
of 28th Street Commercial air service to Grand Rapids is provided by Gerald 
R. Ford International Airport (GRR). Eight passenger airlines and two cargo 
airlines operate over 150 daily flights to 23 nonstop destinations across 
the United States. International service used to be operated to Toronto, 
Canada[citation needed]. The airport was previously named the Kent County 
International Airport. The first regularly scheduled air service in the 
United States was between Grand Rapids and Detroit (actually Dearborn's 
Ford Airport) on a Ford-Stout monoplane named Miss Grand Rapids, which 
commenced July 26, 1926. Amtrak provides direct train service to Chicago 
from the passenger station via the Pere Marquette line.[113][114] Freight 
service is provided by CSX, the Grand Elk Railroad, Marquette Rail, and 
the Grand Rapids Eastern Railroad. Grand Rapids has city partnerships with 
