Great Barrington is a town in Berkshire County, Massachusetts, United States. 
It is part of the Pittsfield, Massachusetts, Metropolitan Statistical Area. 
The population was 7,104 at the 2010 census.[1] Both a summer resort and 
home to Ski Butternut, Great Barrington includes the villages of Van Deusenville 
and Housatonic. It is the birthplace of W. E. B. Du Bois. In 2012, Smithsonian 
magazine ranked Great Barrington #1 in its list of "The 20 Best Small Towns 
in America".[2] Great Barrington today is a vibrant small town acting as 
the hub for "South County". The town and its surroundings support a year-round 
population as well as second homes. Great Barrington is home to over 70 
restaurants catering to a wide spectrum. The recently renovated Mahaiwe 
Theater has become a center for year-round music and cultural events. The 
Mahican Indians called the area Mahaiwe, meaning "the place downstream". 
It lay on the New England Path, which connected Fort Orange near Albany, 
New York, with Springfield and Massachusetts Bay. On April 25, 1724 Captain 
John Ashley of Westfield, Massachusetts bought on behalf of himself and 
a committee of the Massachusetts General Court the land that became the 
towns of Great Barrington, Sheffield, Egremont, Alford, Mount Washington, 
and Boston Corner for £460, three barrels of "sider," and thirty quarts 
of rum from 21 Native American sachems headed by Conkepot Poneyote. The 
Konkapot River in southwestern Massachusetts is named after him.[3] The 
village was first settled by colonists in 1726 and from 1742–1761 was the 
north parish of Sheffield. In 1761, it was officially incorporated as Great 
Barrington, named after the village of Great Barrington in Gloucestershire, 
England.[4] In the summer of 1774, 1,500 men shut down the Berkshire County 
Court in response to British oppression. In the winter of 1776, Henry Knox 
passed through Great Barrington while transporting the cannon from Fort 
Ticonderoga to the Siege of Boston. Due to his time in the area, he established 
an agricultural interest in the area of Great Barrington. With the arrival 
of the railroad in the late 19th century, Great Barrington developed as 
a Gilded Age resort community for those seeking relief from the heat and 
pollution of cities. Wealthy families built grand homes called Berkshire 
Cottages here, as others would in Lenox and Stockbridge. Among the earliest 
estates was that built by New York City banker, industrialist and art patron 
David Leavitt, who built an elaborate 300-acre (1.2 km2) estate, and was 
soon followed by those of his sons nearby.[5][6] Leavitt was instrumental 
in the development of the local Housatonic Railroad, serving as its president. 
Later estates included Searles Castle, commissioned in 1888 by the widow 
of Mark Hopkins together with her second husband, Edward Francis Searles, 
and "Brookside", built for William Hall Walker. In 1895, Colonel William 
L. Brown, part owner of the New York Daily News, presented Great Barrington 
with a statue of a newsboy, now a landmark on the western edge of town.[7] 
Great Barrington is the birthplace of W. E. B. Du Bois, an African-American 
academic and civil rights activist, most known for being one of the co-founders 
of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) 
in 1909.[8] Du Bois was born on February 23, 1868, at a house later replaced 
by where present-day Route 23 would run. As a child, Du Bois attended the 
Congregational Church. Many of these church members donated the funds needed 
for Du Bois to attend college. Du Bois lived in the town until he was seventeen.[8] 
The W.E.B. Du Bois Boyhood Homesite has interpretive trails and a walking 
tour.[9] In November of 1885 electrical engineer William Stanley, Jr., 
a sometimes Great Barrington resident working for George Westinghouse, 
began installing a demonstration transformer based alternating current 
lighting system, an improvement over the direct current system being used 
by Thomas Edison that Stanley was trying to get Westinghouse to adopt. 
Stanley had developed a series transformer that he thought would make AC 
practical. He built his components at the 'Old Rubber Factory" south of 
Cottage Street and installed a Westinghouse steam engine powering a 500 
volt Siemens generator. Stringing the power lines from tree to tree down 
the street, in March 1886 Stanley powered the system up and was able to 
expanded it to the point where it could light 23 businesses along main 
street with very little power loss over 4000 feet. The system's 500 AC 
volt current was stepped down to 100 volts using the new Stanley transformer 
to power incandescent lamps at each location.[10] This was the worlds first 
practical demonstration of a transformer/alternating current system and 
the basis of the AC systems that Westinghouse would begin installing later 
that year.[11] Arlo Guthrie's song "Alice's Restaurant," which runs for 
18½ minutes, is based on true-life events of the late-20th century in Great 
Barrington and the adjoining towns of Stockbridge and Lee. The Old Trinity 
Church, which was the home of Ray and Alice Brock at the time of these 
incidents, and is now owned by Guthrie, is at 4 Van Deusenville Road in 
Great Barrington.[12] On October 18, 1990, Richard Stanley purchased the 
old Miller Hotel, also known as the Barrington House. Stanley started to 
upgrade the building, evicting tenants who had been involved in drugs. 
He removed the 1960s aluminum facade and returned the historic building 
through renovation to its 1929 appearance. The town was the site of an 
F4 tornado around 7:00 PM on Memorial Day, May 29, 1995. The tornado killed 
three people and caused damage in the area.[13] On November 15, 1995, Richard 
Stanley and Joseph Wasserman opened The Triplex Cinema in the heart of 
Great Barrington. This contributed to further developments in the town, 
changing the economy and enhancing its desirability by providing a place 
for community events. With increased appeal as a destination, the town 
attracted new restaurants and retail shops, which opened on both Main Street 
and Railroad Street. Both streets previously had many vacant shops. The 
Berkshire Eagle reported that Great Barrington had 50 places to eat in 
a town of 7,700 people. On July 24, 2009, Great Barrington was named an 
Appalachian Trail Community by application and acceptance by the Appalachian 
Trail Conservancy.[14] On June 1, 2010, a new fire station was opened for 
the Great Barrington Fire Department, located on Route 7.[15] The new fire 
station replaced the old one, located on Castle Street. It had deteriorated 
and was too small for the growing needs of the fire department. The new 
$9.1 million facility was planned as a center for community events such 
as elections. It serves as the hub for emergency operations in southern 
Berkshire County.[15] The town celebrated its 250th anniversary with a 
large parade on July 10, 2011. Other events celebrating the 250th anniversary 
were held throughout the year as well.[16] The "Main Street Reconstruction 
Project" was launched in 2011, involving major improvements along Main 
Street between Saint James Place and Cottage Street. The plan elements 
include new pavement, new sidewalks, sewer and utility improvements, and 
the removal of the large trees that span Main Street, to be replaced with 
a much wider array of trees of varying sizes and growth habits.<http://theberkshireedge.com/part-ii-great-barringtons-main-street-remarkable-trees/> 
The project had finished its design phase as of 2012, and construction 
was to be completed in 2016.[17] According to the United States Census 
Bureau, the town has a total area of 45.8 square miles (118.6 km2), of 
which 44.8 square miles (116.1 km2) is land and 0.97 square miles (2.5 km2), 
or 2.09%, is water.[1] Great Barrington is bordered by West Stockbridge, 
Stockbridge and Lee to the north, Tyringham to the northeast, Monterey 
to the east, New Marlborough to the southeast, Sheffield to the south, 
Egremont to the southwest, and Alford to the northwest. The town is located 
20 miles (32 km) south of Pittsfield, 46 miles (74 km) west of Springfield, 
135 miles (217 km) west of Boston, and 134 miles (216 km) north-northeast 
of New York City. Great Barrington is located within the valley of the 
Housatonic River. The Williams River, Green River and several brooks also 
flow through the valley into the Housatonic. To the east of the river, 
several mountains of the Berkshires rise, including East Mountain (site 
of the Ski Butternut resort (also known as Butternut Basin) and a state 
forest), Beartown Mountain (and the majority of Beartown State Forest) 
and Monument Mountain. The Appalachian Trail crosses through East Mountain 
State Forest in the southeast corner of town. The southwest corner of town 
is the site of several country clubs and a fairgrounds. U.S. Route 7 passes 
through the center of town, and was once part of New England Interstate 
Route 4 (also known as the New York-Berkshire-Burlington Way). Massachusetts 
Route 23 passes from west to east through town, combining with Massachusetts 
Route 41 and U.S. Route 7 in the western part of town and Massachusetts 
Route 183 in the eastern part of town, which also follows part of the path 
of Route 7 northward from Route 23 before splitting towards the village 
of Housatonic. Great Barrington is located approximately 12 miles (19 km) 
south of Exit 2 of Interstate 90 (the Massachusetts Turnpike), the nearest 
interstate highway. As of the census[29] of 2000, there were 7,527 people, 
3,008 households, and 1,825 families residing in the town. By population, 
the town ranks fifth out of the 32 cities and towns in Berkshire County, 
and 202nd out of 351 cities and towns in Massachusetts. The population 
density was 166.6 people per square mile (64.3/km²), ranking it eighth 
in the county and 268th in the Commonwealth. There were 3,352 housing units 
at an average density of 74.2 per square mile (28.6/km²). The racial makeup 
of the town was 94.74% White, 2.09% Black or African American, 0.16% Native 
American, 1.25% Asian, 0.03% Pacific Islander, 0.70% from other races, 
and 1.04% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 2.07% 
of the population. 17% were of Irish descent, 12% Italian, 11% German, 
10% English and 9% Polish. There were 3,008 households out of which 27.3% 
had children under the age of 18 living with them, 45.8% were married couples 
living together, 11.5% had a female householder with no husband present, 
and 39.3% were non-families. 32.6% of all households were made up of individuals 
and 13.3% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The 
average household size was 2.28 and the average family size was 2.89. In 
the town the population was spread out with 22.6% under the age of 18, 
9.0% from 18 to 24, 23.5% from 25 to 44, 26.2% from 45 to 64, and 18.8% 
who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 42 years. For every 
100 females there were 87.2 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, 
there were 83.8 males. The median income for a household in the town was 
$95,490, and the median income for a family was $103,135. Males had a median 
income of $68,163 versus $49,474 for females. The per capita income for 
the town was $42,655. About 2.4% of families and 5.2% of the population 
were below the poverty line, including 3.6% of those under age 18 and 2.5% 
of those age 65 or over. Great Barrington employs the open town meeting 
form of government, and is led by a board of selectmen and a town manager. 
Great Barrington has its own public services, including police, fire and 
public works departments. The town has two libraries,[30] with the main 
branch, Mason Library, located at 231 Main Street in Great Barrington, 
and a branch library, Ramsdell Library, located at 1087 Main Street in 
the village of Housatonic, both of which are part of the regional library 
network. The town is home to Southern Berkshire District Court,[31] as 
well as Fairview Hospital, the largest hospital in the southern end of 
the county (based on the number of beds).[32] On the state level, Great 
Barrington is represented in the Massachusetts House of Representatives 
by the Fourth Berkshire district, which covers southern Berkshire County, 
as well as the westernmost towns in Hampden County. In the Massachusetts 
Senate, the town is represented by the Berkshire, Hampshire and Franklin 
district, which includes all of Berkshire County and western Hampshire 
and Franklin counties.[33] The town is patrolled by the Great Barrington 
Police Department which is a 24/7/365 service. On the national level, Great 
Barrington is represented in the United States House of Representatives 
as part of Massachusetts's 1st congressional district. Democrat Richard 
Neal of Springfield has represented the district since 2012. Great Barrington 
has a paid by call Fire Department, The Great Barrington Fire Department 
(GBFD), which consists of about 40 members and 5 pumpers, 1 Tower Ladder 
(Ladder 1), 2 Rescue Vehicles, and 1 Brush Truck (545). Most members are 
trained to the First Responder level and some are trained to the EMT-Basic 
level. The Fire Department responds to about 600 calls per year, which 
vary but are not limited to mainly fire alarm activations and medical emergencies. 
Great Barrington's Emergency Medical Services are covered by Southern Berkshire 
Volunteer Ambulance Squad Inc, also known as "SBVAS", operated from the 
grounds of Fairview Hospital. The service provides 24/7/365 paramedic level 
service to the towns of Great Barrington, Housatonic, Alford, Egremont, 
Sheffield, Ashley Falls, Monterey, and Mount Washington. SBVAS is the primary 
paramedic intercept service for ambulances going into Fairview, including 
New Marlborough, Sandisfield, and Otis The squad consists of a mix of full-time 
EMTs and Paramedics and Volunteer EMTs. The squad runs anywhere from 3,000 
to 5,000 calls a year. Great Barrington offers the use of its own local 
currency, called BerkShare notes. There are about 844,000 BerkShare notes 
in circulation worth about $801,800 at the current exchange rate of one 
BerkShare to 95 U.S. cents, according to program organizers. The paper 
money is available in denominations of one, five, ten, twenty, and fifty.[34] 
Proponents say that the currency gets residents to shop at local stores. 
Local areas may have their own currencies as long as they do not resemble 
the United States dollar and are in paper only.[35] Great Barrington is 
the largest town in the Berkshire Hills Regional School District, which 
includes the towns of Stockbridge and West Stockbridge, and the villages 
of Housatonic, Glendale and Interlaken. All three school levels are located 
in Great Barrington. Muddy Brook Regional Elementary School offers pre-kindergarten 
through fourth grade classes and is located off Route 7 in the northern 
part of town. Monument Valley Regional Middle School offers grades five 
through eight. Monument Mountain Regional High School (MMRHS) opened in 
1968, consolidating the former Searles High School in Great Barrington 
and Williams High School in Stockbridge,[36] and serves the high school 
students of the district. Students from Otis and Sandisfield also attend 
the school as part of a tuition agreement for high schools. The town of 
Richmond maintains an agreement with the district that gives its high school 
students an option to attend MMRHS. The school's athletic teams are called 
the Spartans, and their colors are maroon and white. Sports are offered 
at the junior varsity and varsity level for the students to participate 
in, including football, soccer, baseball and softball, swimming, track 
and field, tennis, and more. Several of the sports teams have heated rivalries 
with the Lee High School Wildcats, in Lee, Massachusetts and the Lenox 
Memorial High School Millionaires in Lenox, Massachusetts. The town is 
home to several private schools, including the Rudolf Steiner School, the 
Great Barrington Waldorf High School, and the John Dewey Academy. Great 
Barrington is home to Bard College at Simon's Rock, which was the first-ever 
early college, and remains the only accredited four-year early college 
program in the country. Also located here is the South County Center of 
the Berkshire Community College. The nearest state university is Westfield 
State University. Great Barrington plays host to the American Institute 
for Economic Research. AIER was founded in 1933 as non-profit scientific 
and educational organization. Originally located at MIT, it relocated to 
the southern shore of Great Barrington's Long Pond in 1946. Great Barrington 
is served by the Berkshire Regional Transit Authority, which offers bus 
transportation throughout Berkshire County. Peter Pan Bus Lines and Greyhound 
Lines have stops in Great Barrington for long-range bus transportation. 
The town lies along the Housatonic Railroad line, which roughly follows 
Route 7 and the river through southern New England. Walter J. Koladza Airport 
is located in Great Barrington, and features a full service FBO for general 
aviation aircraft. The nearest international airports are Bradley International 
Airport in Windsor Locks, Connecticut, and Albany International Airport 
in Albany, New York. Great Barrington is the location of the Ski Butternut 
resort and the Berkshire Humane Society operates animal welfare services 
and pet adoption facilities in the town. Great Barrington is served by 
a local weekly newspaper, The Berkshire Record, and a weekly shopper, The 
Shoppers Guide. The town also gets newspaper delivery from The Berkshire 
Eagle of Pittsfield. The former second town newspaper, The Berkshire Courier, 
has gone out of print. The masthead of the Courier was incorporated by 
the Berkshire Record in 1995. Great Barrington has a few local radio stations: 
Great Barrington is in the Albany, New York, television market, with three 
Springfield TV stations appearing on the cable lineup: WWLP (NBC 22), WGBY 
(PBS 57), and WSHM-LD (CBS 67). The town is served by Time Warner Cable 
