Greater Hartford is a region located in the U.S. state of Connecticut, 
centered on the state's capital of Hartford. This area of Connecticut is 
different from other parts of the state in that it is not dependent on 
out-of-state metropolitan areas such as New York City or Boston. It is 
on the fairly level land of the Connecticut River valley with soil less 
rocky than that of other areas in the state. Hartford's role as a focal 
point for the American insurance industry is known nationally. The vibrant 
music and arts scene defines the region's culture. The region's economy 
is closely tied with Springfield, Massachusetts, as Hartford and Springfield 
are twin cities, only 25 miles apart. The area is served by Bradley International 
Airport, shared with Springfield. Although contiguous to Springfield's 
northern border, Westover Metropolitan Airport was briefly marketed as 
an alternative for Hartford-bound flyers. Hartford is also served by Hartford-Brainard 
Airport. The population of Greater Hartford (metropolitan area as defined 
by the U.S. Census Bureau), had a total population of 1,212,381 (2010 census). 
The Capitol Region refers to a specific group of municipalities that the 
Capitol Region Council of Governments. Since Connecticut dissolved county 
governments, counties in the state have become purely ceremonial in nature. 
In place of county governments are local councils composed of the representatives 
from municipal governments. Other councils that fall within the Greater 
Hartford area the Central Connecticut Regional Planning Agency and the 
Lower Connecticut River Valley Council of Governments (formerly known as 
the Midstate Council of Governments).[1] New England City and Town Areas 
(NECTA) are cluster of cities and towns throughout all of New England defined 
by the Office of Management and Budget. The Hartford-West Hartford-East 
Hartford, CT Metropolitan NECTA consists of 54 towns, including 25 in Hartford 
County, 5 in Litchfield County, 6 in Middlesex County, 2 in New London 
County, 12 in Tolland County, and 4 in Windham County. The United States 
Census Bureau also defines the Hartford-West Hartford-East Hartford, CT 
Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) based on towns as building blocks. 
The area contains 54 towns of Hartford County, Tolland County, and Middlesex 
County. The 2015 population estimate for the MSA is 1,211,324[2] and is 
ranked as the 47th largest metropolitan area by population in the United 
States. The MSA definition of the area contains a significant portion of 
the Lower Connecticut River Valley, which is not commonly considered as 
part of Greater Hartford.[citation needed] A region very similar to the 
MSA is covered by the combination of the Hartford Service Delivery Area 
and the Mid-Connecticut Service Delivery Area, covering 56 towns.[3] The 
Hartford Metropolitan Statistical Area in combined with the Norwich-New 
London MSA in a larger entity known as the Hartford-West Hartford-East 
Hartford Metropolitan Statistical Area. As of 2015, the population of the 
CSA was 1,483,187, ranking it 37 in the nation. Counties included in this 
definition are: ^1 Town also included in the Springfield, Massachusetts 
NECTA ^2 Division of United Technologies (Otis and Carrier are under the 
UTC Building & Industrial Systems division) Public, four-year universities 
in the area include:.[26][27] Public, two-year community colleges in the 
area include:[26] Private, nonprofit, four-year universities in the area 
include:[28] There are numerous hospitals in the Greater Hartford area, 
including five teaching hospitals (of which, one is a pediatric hospital) 
and two psychiatric hospitals. All of the above hospitals are affiliated 
with the University of Connecticut School of Medicine[29] The Bushnell 
Center for the Performing Arts is one of the largest indoor performing 
arts venues in the area. It houses two theaters within the complex: the 
2,800-seat Mortensen Hall and the 906-seat Belding Theater. Other theaters 
in the area include the Hartford Stage and TheatreWorks. The area is also 
home to the Xfinity Theatre, a 7,500-seat open-air amphitheater. The lawn 
outside the theater is capable of holding roughly 22,500 people, bringing 
total capacity to around 30,000 people. The Connecticut Convention Center 
is located in downtown Hartford adjacent to the Hartford Marriot Downtown. 
The facility has more than 140,000 square feet (13,000 m2) of exhibition 
space, a 40,000-square-foot (4,000 m2) ballroom, and 25,000 square feet 
(2,300 m2) of space for meetings and conferences. Since 2005, it has hosted 
ConnectiCon, an annual, multi-genre, pop culture convention.[30] The New 
England Air Museum in Windsor Locks also hosts many events, with three 
large hangars available for use. One of the more popular events held there 
is FlightSimCon. In addition, AOPA has held their annual aviation summit 
in Hartford.[31] Greater Hartford is home to multiple minor league professional 
sports teams and college teams. There are currently no major league professional 
sports teams. However, it was home to the Hartford Whalers ice hockey team 
from 1974 to 1997. The Whalers came to Hartford playing in the World Hockey 
Association, until they were admitted to the National Hockey League in 
1979. In 1997, the team relocated to North Carolina, where they were renamed 
the Carolina Hurricanes. Throughout the mid-1990s, the New England Patriots 
were negotiating with the state of Connecticut for a brand new football 
stadium located in downtown Hartford to replace the aging Foxboro Stadium 
where they played. The team eventually made agreed to another proposal 
that saw Gillette Stadium. With the Patriots no longer in the equation, 
the state instead decided to construct a smaller football stadium on the 
former United Technologies-owned airfield in East Hartford. Pratt & Whitney 
Stadium at Rentschler Field seats approximately 40,000 spectators and is 
home to the Connecticut Huskies football team. Beginning in 2016, the Rock 
Cats will relocate to Hartford, where they will be renamed the Hartford 
Yard Goats and play at Dunkin' Donuts Park. Greater Hartford is also home 
to the Travelers Championship golf tournament (formerly known as the Greater 
Hartford Open/Buick Championship). Major shopping centers in the area include: 
The Hartford Courant is the daily broadsheet newspaper serving the Greater 
Hartford area. Founded in 1764 as the Connecticut Courant, it is generally 
considered to be the oldest continually published newspaper in the United 
States. It is owned by Tribune Publishing. From 1817 to 1976, the area 
was also served by another daily newspaper, the Hartford Times. Greater 
Hartford and Greater New Haven form a single television market. This television 
market is served by the following broadcast television stations: Highway 
transportation in Greater Hartford is primarily run by two mainline Interstates: 
There were several plans to expand the highway system (with at least one 
plan calling for a full beltway). Various plans encountered resistance 
due to budgetary and environmental concerns. However, some highways were 
ultimately constructed, if only partially: Some state highways also serve 
as major expressways: Public bus transportation is operated by the Hartford 
division of CTTransit. It provides service to 30 local routes and 12 express 
routes seven days a week throughout the metropolitan area.[32] 2015 saw 
the opening of the CTfastrak, a bus rapid transit system that runs from 
downtown New Britain to Hartford Union Station. The dedicated busway is 
over 9 miles long and stops at 10 stations.[33][34][35] Bradley International 
Airport (IATA: BDL, ICAO: KBDL, FAA LID: BDL) is located in the town of 
Windsor Locks, approximately 10 miles from Hartford. Bradley is the second-largest 
airport in New England (behind Logan International Airport), and was ranked 
the 55th busiest airport in the United States in 2008.[36][37] Southwest 
Airlines, Delta Air Lines, JetBlue Airways, and US Airways account for 
more than half of the airport's passenger traffic.[38][39] The Bradley 
Airport Connector provides highway access to the airport from Interstate 
91. Bradley is a dual-use civil/military airport, with the Bradley Air 
National Guard Base serving as the home of the Connecticut Air National 
Guard 103d Airlift Wing. Hartford–Brainard Airport (IATA: HFD, ICAO: KHFD, FAA 
LID: HFD) is a smaller reliever airport located in the southeastern section 
of Hartford. It is primarily used for general aviation purposes.[40] Several 
Amtrak routes run through the metropolitan area, including the Northeast 
Regional, Vermonter, as well as a daily shuttle between New Haven and Springfield, 
Massachusetts. The Hartford Line is a planned commuter rail service. It 
will use the same line as the Amtrak shuttle, and will stop at 12 stations 
