The Great Pittsburgh Pierogi Race N'at, commonly called the Great Pierogi 
Race, is an American mascot race between innings during a Pittsburgh Pirates 
baseball game that features six contestants racing in giant pierogi costumes: 
Potato Pete (blue hat), Jalapeño Hannah (green hat), Cheese Chester (yellow 
hat), Sauerkraut Saul (red hat), Oliver Onion (purple hat), and Bacon Burt 
(orange hat). The pierogies travel once a year to Miller Park to take on 
the Milwaukee Brewers' racing sausages (the inspiration for the Pirates' 
version of the promotion) when the Pirates play the Brewers, as well as 
to Nationals Park to take on the Washington Nationals' racing U.S. Presidents 
when the Pirates play the Nationals. Conversely, both the Brewers and Nationals 
bring their respective characters to PNC Park when they play in Pittsburgh.[citation 
needed] The Pierogies are often introduced to the opening tune to Run Like 
Hell from the Pink Floyd album The Wall, and usually race in between the 
5th and 6th innings. The promotion was created by Pirates Coordinator of 
In-Game Entertainment Eric Wolff [1] in 1999 at Three Rivers Stadium, then 
the Pirates' home park, and at the time featured only three characters: 
Potato Pete, Sauerkraut Saul, and Cheese Chester. It quickly became a fan 
favorite, and beanbags in the likeness of the different characters are 
given to children at certain ballgames as a promotion. Jalapeño Hannah 
was added soon after the promotion began. A year or two after the Pirates 
moved to PNC Park, Oliver Onion was added and Potato Pete dropped, though 
Potato Pete continued to make occasional appearances.[2] In previous years, 
the race mainly took place as an animated sequence on the video board, 
showing the pierogies running through different sections of Pittsburgh 
and an announcer speaking English to cover the race. The race culminated 
in the contestants running into the ballpark from right field, toward the 
visitors' dugout. Occasionally, the Pirate Parrot influenced the outcome 
of the race by distracting or knocking over contestants. A winner is determined 
and the leaderboard updated after the race. Often, a "humorous" disclaimer 
such as "No pierogies were harmed in the race" follows the leaderboard. 
A champion is crowned at the end of every season. At times, the Pirates 
will have faster runners wear costumes of pierogies that are behind in 
the races in order to keep the season-long competition "close", in effect 
making the races somewhat fixed.[2][3] The event is sponsored by Mrs. T's 
Pierogies. The animated sequence was dropped completely at the beginning 
of the 2009 season. Now, the race begins near where the tarp is rolled 
up on the third-base side, and the pierogies race around the warning track 
until the Clemente Wall in right-field. The race has lost many of the occasions 
of the Pirate Parrot influencing the ending; the races are generally won 
by normal means, although strange incidents do occur. In 2008 and 2009, 
the pierogies appeared twice at Washington D.C.'s Nationals Park in the 
nightly Presidents Race. The first night in 2008, the four pierogies were 
chased by President Teddy, wielding a large aluminum foil fork and knife. 
The second night the pierogies faced off with the presidents in a relay 
race. The relay race was repeated in 2009, with Potato Pete TKO-ing Teddy 
Roosevelt with a flying tackle, which was replayed[4] over and over on 
sport shows. The Presidents appeared again at PNC Park during the Pirates 
series against the Nationals in April 2011, racing against the pierogies. 
In 2010, the Pirates fired one of the pierogie racers after he made critical 
comments of the team on Facebook, a story that received national headlines.[2] 
Andrew Kurtz, 24, of New Brighton, Pennsylvania, had criticized the team's 
decision to give then-manager John Russell and Pirates GM Neal Huntington 
contract extensions in the midst of a 12-game losing streak.[5] The Pirates 
later rehired Kurtz after the team discovered that his boss in charge of 
the race didn't follow proper disciplinary action within the organization.[6] 
Russell himself would be fired after the Bucs finished a Major League-worst 
57-105 record for 2010.[7] During the race on July 23, 2014, where the 
Pirates were playing the Los Angeles Dodgers, Cheese Chester broke his 
foot while competing. Later on during the game the Pirates announced via 
their scoreboard that Cheese Chester was placed on the 15-day disabled 
list and Potato Pete would be making a return to take Chester's place for 
the time he'd miss due to the injury. The Pirates posted on their Twitter 
account a picture of Cheese Chester with crutches and confirmed it was 
indeed a broken foot and he would miss 6–8 weeks. It will be the first 
time that Potato Pete has competed in this event since the 2001 season; 
it will also mark the first appearance of Potato Pete at PNC Park since 
his encounter with Teddy Roosevelt in 2009 and his first appearance of 
any kind since 2012 when he confronted Teddy at Nationals Park.[8] During 
Potato Pete's return, he won 16 races in a row to tie the other pierogies, 
while Cheese Chester made a "rehab start" during the Panera Bread Great 
American Bagel Race during the August 28, 2014 game between the Altoona 
Curve (the Pirates Double-A affiliate) and the Richmond Flying Squirrels, 
competing against the bagels Blueberry Bob, Asiago Allie, and Cinnamon 
Crunch Cindy. (Coincidentally, Pirates pitcher Charlie Morton was himself 
making a rehab start in the game.) It was considered the first "MLB Mascot 
Rehabilitation Assignment".[9][10] Cheese Chester then spent the next two 
days confronting Potato Pete at PNC Park until the two agreed that whoever 
won a one-on-one race after the Pirates game against the Cincinnati Reds 
on August 30, the winner would race with the rest of the pierogies the 
rest of the season while the loser would be out for the season. Cheese 
Chester won his spot back after Potato Pete built a sizable lead but tripped 
after taunting Cheese Chester, allowing Cheese Chester to win the one-on-one 
race and return to the season-long competition.[11] For the 2015 season, 
all five pierogies started part of the Great Pierogi Race on a regular 
basis, although on April 18, 2015, Potato Pete was "locked" inside a freezer 
as punishment after he cheated again.[12] During the Pirates first homestand 
of the 2015 season, the team hinted over the course of several days on 
its official Instagram account that a new pierogi would be joining the 
Great Pierogi Race. After being interviewed by the Pirate Parrot and later 
ordered to race around PNC Park, the pierogi was introduced as Bacon Burt. 
In addition to his orange cap, Bacon Burt has a moustache. Bacon Burt would 
win in his debut race April 19, 2015, coincidentally while the Pirates 
