The Greater Los Angeles Area is the second-largest urban region in the 
United States, encompassing five counties in Southern California, extending 
from Ventura County in the west to San Bernardino County and Riverside 
County on the east, with Los Angeles County in the center and Orange County 
to the southeast. Throughout the 20th century, it was one of the fastest-growing 
regions in the United States, although growth has slowed since 2000. As 
of the 2010 U.S. Census, the Los Angeles Metropolitan Statistical Area 
had a population of nearly 13 million residents. Meanwhile, the larger 
metropolitan region's population at the 2010 census was estimated to be 
over 17.8 million residents, and a 2015 estimate reported a population 
of about 18.7 million.[1] Either definition makes it the second largest 
metropolitan region in the country, behind the New York metropolitan area, 
as well as one of the largest urban agglomerations in the world.[2][3] 
The agglomeration of the urbanized Greater Los Angeles area surrounds the 
urban core of Los Angeles County. The regional term is defined to refer 
to the more-or-less continuously urbanized area stretching from Ventura 
County to the southern border of Orange County and from the Pacific Ocean 
to the Coachella Valley in the Inland Empire. The US Census Bureau defines 
the Greater Los Angeles area to include the entire Los Angeles County, 
Ventura County, Orange County and the two counties of the Inland Empire, 
making up the Los Angeles-Long Beach-Riverside, CA Combined Statistical 
Area. However, this Census definition includes large, sparsely populated 
and primarily desert swaths of Los Angeles, San Bernardino and Riverside 
counties that are not part of the urbanized region. The term "Greater Los 
Angeles" does not include San Diego County, whose urbanized area is separated 
from San Clemente, the southernmost contiguous urbanized area south of 
Los Angeles, by a 16.4-mile (26.4 km) stretch of the Marine Corps Base 
Camp Pendleton. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the Los Angeles metropolitan 
area has a total area of 4,850 square miles (12,561 km2), while the wider 
combined statistical area covers 33,954 square miles (87,940 km2), making 
it the largest metropolitan region in the United States by land area. However, 
more than half of this area lies in the sparsely populated eastern areas 
of Riverside and San Bernardino counties. In addition to being the nexus 
of the world's largest entertainment industry, Greater Los Angeles is also 
a global center of business, international trade, education, media, fashion, 
tourism, science and technology, sports, and transportation.[4] Los Angeles 
has a long-standing reputation for sprawl. The area is in fact sprawling, 
but according to the 2000 census, the "Los Angeles-Long Beach-Anaheim" 
Urbanized Area (but not counting the portions of the Inland Empire in the 
Greater Los Angeles Area) had a population density of 7,068 inhabitants 
per square mile (2,729/km2), covering 1,668 square miles (4,320 km2) of 
land area, making it the most densely populated Urbanized Area (as defined 
by the United States Census Bureau) in the United States.[5] For comparison, 
the "New York–Newark" Urbanized Area as a whole had a population density 
of 5,309 per square mile (2,050/km2), covering 3,353 square miles (8,684 km2) 
of land area. Los Angeles' sprawl may originate in the region's decentralized 
structure. Its major commercial, financial, and cultural institutions are 
geographically dispersed rather than being concentrated in a single downtown 
or central area. Also, the population density of Los Angeles proper is 
low (approximately 8,100 people per square mile) when compared to some 
other large American cities such as New York (27,500), San Francisco (17,000), 
Boston (13,300), and Chicago (11,800).[6] This is misleading though, since 
unlike other cities the boundary of Los Angeles incorporates mountain areas 
with almost no people. When the actually built up area is considered (and 
undeveloped mountain lands are excluded), urban Los Angeles has density 
in excess of 10,000 people per square mile.[citation needed] Densities 
are particularly high within a 5-mile radius of downtown, where some neighborhoods 
exceed 20,000 people per square mile.[citation needed] Also, what gives 
the entire Los Angeles metro region a high density is the fact that many 
of the city's suburbs and satellites cities have high density rates.[7] 
Within its urbanized areas, Los Angeles is noted for having small lot sizes 
and low-rise buildings. Buildings in the area are low when compared to 
other large cities, mainly due to zoning regulations. Los Angeles became 
a major city just as the Pacific Electric Railway spread population to 
smaller cities much as interurbans did in East Coast cities. In the first 
decades of the twentieth century, the area was marked by a network of fairly 
dense but separate cities linked by rail. The ascendance of the automobile 
helped fill in the gaps between these commuter towns with lower-density 
settlements.[8] Starting in the early twentieth century, there was a large 
growth in population on the western edges of the city moving to the San 
Fernando Valley and out into the Conejo Valley in eastern Ventura County. 
Many working class whites migrated to this area during the 1960s and 1970s 
out of East and Central Los Angeles.[9] As a result, there was a large 
growth in population into the Conejo Valley and into Ventura County through 
the US 101 corridor. Making the US 101 a full freeway in the 1960s and 
expansions that followed helped make commuting to Los Angeles easier and 
opened the way for development westward. Development in Ventura County 
and along the US 101 corridor remains controversial, with open-space advocates 
battling those who feel business development is necessary to economic growth.[10] 
Although the area still has abundant amount of open space and land, almost 
all of it was put aside and mandated never to be developed as part of the 
master plan of each city. Because of this, the area which was once a relatively 
inexpensive area to buy real estate, saw rising real estate prices well 
into the 2000s (decade).[11] Median home prices in the Conejo Valley for 
instance, now range from $700,000 to $2.2 million.[12] According to Forbes, 
"it's nearly impossible" to find reasonably priced real estate in California, 
and the prices will continue to increase.[13] The Los Angeles area continues 
to grow, principally on the periphery where new, cheaper, undeveloped areas 
are being sought.[14] As such, in these areas, populations as well as housing 
prices exploded, although the housing bubble popped late in the decade 
of the 2000s (decade). Riverside and San Bernardino Counties, which contain 
large swaths of desert, attracted most of the population increase between 
2000 and 2006. Growth continues not only outside the existing urbanized 
area but also adjacent to existing development in the central areas.[15] 
As in virtually all US core cities, there is now vigorous residential development 
in the downtown area with both new buildings and renovation of former office 
buildings. The Los Angeles Downtown News keeps a list of ongoing development 
projects, updated every quarter.[16] Changes in house prices for the area 
are publicly tracked on a regular basis using the Case–Shiller index; the 
statistic is published by Standard & Poor's and is also a component of 
S&P's 10-city composite index of the value of the residential real estate 
market. The term "Greater Los Angeles" can be used to denote the metropolitan 
area or the consolidated area. Employment is not only in the downtown area, 
but consistently occurs outside the central core. As such, many people 
commute throughout the city and suburbs in various directions for their 
work and daily activities, with a large portion heading to the municipalities 
that are outside the city of Los Angeles.[17] Unlike most metropolitan 
areas, regional identity remains a contentious issue in the Greater Los 
Angeles area, with many residents not acknowledging any association with 
the region as a whole. For example, while Los Angeles County and Orange 
County together make up the smaller MSA region, the two have a host of 
sharp demographic, political, and financial distinctions. Orange County 
residents often attempt to be identified apart from Los Angeles although 
they make up the same metropolitan area. And while only 1.63% of Los Angeles 
residents commute to Orange County for work, over 6% of Orange County commuters 
head to Los Angeles for work.[18] Western Riverside County and San Bernardino 
County have become commuter regions characteristic of other suburban counties 
throughout the nation. Most residents in these counties commute to Los 
Angeles County and Orange County for employment.[19] With a population 
of 3.8 million people as of the 2010 Census, Los Angeles is the second 
most populous city in the United States after New York City, and is the 
focal point of the Greater Los Angeles Area.[20] As an international center 
for finance, entertainment, media, culture, education, tourism, and science, 
Los Angeles is considered one of the world's most powerful and influential 
global cities.[21] As with some municipalities and areas in the metropolitan 
region, areas in Los Angeles proper can be defined as being bounded by 
natural features such as mountains or the ocean; others are marked by city 
boundaries, freeways, or other constructed landmarks. For example, Downtown 
Los Angeles is the area of Los Angeles roughly enclosed by three freeways 
and one river: the Harbor Freeway (SR 110) to the west, the Santa Ana Freeway 
(US 101) to the north, the Los Angeles River to the east, and the Santa 
Monica Freeway (I-10) to the south.[22] Meanwhile, the San Fernando Valley 
("The Valley") is defined as the basin consisting of the part of Los Angeles 
and its suburbs that lie north-northwest of downtown and is ringed by mountains.[23] 
Other areas of the city of Los Angeles include South Los Angeles (formerly 
known officially as South Central L.A.), the Westside, Harbor Area, East 
Los Angeles, Greater Hollywood, and Wilshire. Los Angeles County, of which 
Los Angeles is the county seat, is the most populous county in the United 
States and is home to over a quarter of all California residents.[24] The 
large size of the city of Los Angeles, as well as its history of annexing 
smaller towns, has made city boundaries in the central area of Los Angeles 
County quite complicated.[25] Many cities are completely surrounded by 
the city of Los Angeles and are often included in the city's areas despite 
being independent municipalities. For example, Santa Monica and Beverly 
Hills (which is completely surrounded by Los Angeles) are considered part 
of the Westside, while Hawthorne and Inglewood are considered associated 
with South L.A. Adjacent areas that are outside the actual city boundaries 
of incorporated Los Angeles but border the city itself, include the Santa 
Clarita Valley, the San Gabriel Valley, South Bay, and the Gateway Cities. 
Despite the large footprint of the city of Los Angeles, a majority of the 
land area within Los Angeles County is unincorporated and under the primary 
jurisdiction of Los Angeles County. Much of this land, however, cannot 
be easily developed due to planning challenges presented by geographic 
features such as the Santa Monica Mountains, the San Gabriel Mountains 
range, and the Mojave Desert. Actual land development in these regions 
occurs on the fringes of incorporated cities, some of which have been fully 
developed, such as the suburbs of Palmdale and Lancaster. Orange County, 
together with Los Angeles County, is part of the Los Angeles metropolitan 
area, the inner core of the Greater Los Angeles region. The county is mostly 
suburban, with no defined urban center. Originally a primarily agricultural 
area dependent on citrus crops, avocados, and oil extraction, Orange County 
became a bedroom community for Los Angeles upon the completion of numerous 
freeways linking it to the city, most notably Interstate 5. The growth 
of Los Angeles initially fueled population growth in Orange County, but 
the establishment of the tourism industry allowed it to become an important 
economic center as well. Today, Orange County is known for its tourist 
attractions, such as Disneyland, Knott's Berry Farm, and its several pristine 
beaches and coastline. Some larger cities in the county, such as Anaheim 
and Irvine, have evolved to become centers of business and cultural attractions. 
Orange County is sometimes figuratively divided into "North County" and 
"South County" by California State Route 55 (Costa Mesa Freeway). While 
North County, which includes cities such as Anaheim, Fullerton, and Santa 
Ana, is the older, more diverse and urbanized area closer to Los Angeles, 
South County, which includes cities such as Laguna Beach, Mission Viejo, 
Newport Beach, and San Clemente, is more affluent, mostly white demographically, 
and consists of the more recently developed areas to the south and east. 
An exception to general South County traits is Irvine, which is more diverse 
than its surrounding cities and is a major center of employment. Ventura 
County is mostly suburban and rural and also has developed primarily through 
the growth of Los Angeles. The northern part of the county, however, remains 
largely undeveloped and is mostly within the Los Padres National Forest. 
Central and southern Ventura County formerly consisted of small towns along 
the Pacific Coast until the expansion of U.S. Route 101 drew in commuters 
from the San Fernando Valley. Master-planned cities soon began developing, 
and the county became increasingly urbanized. The Inland Empire, consisting 
of San Bernardino and Riverside Counties, contains fast-growing suburbs 
of the region, with a large to majority percentage of the working population 
commuting to either Los Angeles or Orange Counties for work. Originally 
an important center for citrus production, the region became an important 
industrial area by the early 20th century.[26][27][28] The Inland Empire 
also became a key transportation center following the completion of Route 
66, and later Interstate 10. With the post-World War II economic boom leading 
to rapid development in Los Angeles and Orange Counties, land developers 
bulldozed acres of agricultural land to build suburbs in order to accommodate 
the Los Angeles area's expanding population.[26] The development of a regional 
freeway system facilitated the expansion of suburbs and human migration 
linking the Inland Empire and rest of Greater Los Angeles. Despite being 
primarily suburban, the Inland Empire is also home to important warehousing, 
shipping, logistics and retail industries, centered on the subregion's 
major cities of Riverside, San Bernardino and Ontario. While the Inland 
Empire is sometimes defined as the entirety of San Bernardino and Riverside 
Counties, the eastern undeveloped, desert portions of these counties are 
not considered to be part of Greater Los Angeles. The state of California 
defines this area to include the cities of Adelanto, Apple Valley, and 
Victorville to the north, the Riverside–San Diego county line to the south, 
and the towns of Anza, Idyllwild, and Lucerne Valley, along with the San 
Bernardino National Forest to the east.[29] However, with clear Northern 
and Southern limits to expansion, the region's urban eastern boundaries 
have become increasingly nebulous as suburban sprawl continues to spread 
out to form a unified whole with Los Angeles, with further development 
encroaching past the San Bernardino and San Jacinto Mountains and into 
the outlying desert areas. As a result, the regional definition of Greater 
Los Angeles can now be extended to include Barstow and surrounding towns 
in the northeast, the Morongo Basin in the east-central including Yucca 
Valley and Twentynine Palms, and the Coachella Valley cities in the southeast. 
This interconnectivity, provided by one of the most extensive freeway systems 
in the world, as well as economic, social and media ties has blended boundaries 
between these regions and the urbanized Los Angeles and Inland Empire areas.[30] 
While the above areas are included in the regional definition of Greater 
Los Angeles, the U.S. Census Bureau defines Greater Los Angeles, or officially, 
the Los Angeles-Long Beach-Riverside Combined Statistical Area, to include 
both the above-mentioned areas along with the entirety of San Bernardino 
and Riverside counties.[31] These areas are sparsely developed and are 
part of the Mojave and Colorado Deserts. To the north, Interstate 15 crosses 
desolate desert landscape after passing Barstow, linking Greater Los Angeles 
with Las Vegas, with Baker being the only significant outpost along the 
route. To the east, lie the Mojave National Preserve and Joshua Tree National 
Park along with the towns of Needles and Blythe on the California-Arizona 
border. The Los Angeles Combined Statistical Area consists of the entirety 
of the counties of Los Angeles, Orange, Ventura, San Bernardino, and Riverside, 
including the sparsely developed eastern portions of the latter two that 
are not included in the regional definition of Greater Los Angeles. As 
of the 2010 United States Census, it is home to nearly half of all California 
residents.[32] The Los Angeles metropolitan area comprises Los Angeles 
County (2010 population: 9,862,049) and Orange County (2010 population: 
3,010,759). It is officially designated by the US Census Bureau as the 
Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana, CA Metropolitan Statistical Area. The 
total population for the Los Angeles metropolitan area at the 2010 Census 
was 12,872,808.[33] In addition to the Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana, 
CA Metropolitan Statistical Area, the following Metropolitan Statistical 
Areas are also included in the Los Angeles-Long Beach-Riverside, CA Combined 
Statistical Area:[33] Oxnard-Thousand Oaks-Ventura, CA Metropolitan Statistical 
Area (2010 population: 797,740), within Ventura County, and the Riverside-San 
Bernardino-Ontario, CA Metropolitan Statistical Area (2010 population: 
4,115,871), made up of Riverside County (2010 population: 2,100,516) and 
San Bernardino County (2010 population: 2,015,355). List of cities with 
populations of over 60,000 as of the 2010 U.S. Census: List of cities with 
populations of over 60,000 as of the 2010 U.S. Census: According to the 
2010 census, there were 17,877,006 people residing in the Greater Los Angeles 
Area. The racial makeup of the area was 54.9% White (39.0% White Non-Hispanic), 
12.3% Asian, 0.3% Pacific Islander, 20.0% African American, 0.8% Native 
American, 7.2% from other races, and 4.5% from two or more races. 44.9% 
of the population (8.0 million) were Hispanic of any race, including 35.7% 
of the population (6.4 million) which was of Mexican origin.[35] 31.0% 
of the population (5.5 million) was foreign born; 18.3% (3.3 million) came 
from Latin America and 9.8% (1.7 million) from Asia.[36] The explosive 
growth of the region in the 20th century can be attributed to its favorable 
Mediterranean climate, the availability of land and many booming industries 
such as oil, automobile and rubber, motion pictures and aerospace which 
in turn attracted millions of people from all over the United States and 
world.[citation needed] Citrus production was important to the region's 
development in the earlier part of the 20th century.[37] While the New 
York metropolitan area is presently the most populous metropolitan area 
in the United States, it has been predicted in the past that Greater Los 
Angeles will eventually surpass Greater New York in population.[citation 
needed] Whether this will happen is yet to be seen, but past predictions 
on this event have been off the mark. A 1966 article in Time predicted 
Greater Los Angeles would surpass New York by 1975, and that by 1990, would 
reach close to the 19 million mark.[38] But the article's flawed definition 
of Greater Los Angeles included San Diego, which is actually its own metropolitan 
area. A 1989 article in The New York Times predicted Greater Los Angeles 
would surpass Greater New York by 2010,[39] but the article predicted the 
population would be 18.3 million in that year, a number Greater New York 
has already surpassed as of 2007 by half a million people. As of 2009, 
the New York metropolitan area had a population of 22.2 million compared 
to the Greater Los Angeles Area's 18.7 million, about a 3.56 million persons 
difference.[40] Percentage growth, however, has been higher in Greater 
Los Angeles over the past few decades than in Greater New York. While there 
is not official designation for the regions that comprise Greater Los Angeles, 
one authority, the Los Angeles Times, divides the area into the following 
regions:[41] Regions in adjacent counties include: Greater Los Angeles 
is a politically divided metropolitan area. During the 1970s and 1980s 
the region leaned toward the Republican Party. Los Angeles County, the 
most populous of the region, is a Democratic stronghold, although it voted 
twice for both Richard Nixon (1968 and 1972) and Ronald Reagan (1980 and 
1984). Riverside County, San Bernardino County, and Orange County lean 
toward the Republican Party. Ventura County is politically divided. The 
Greater Los Angeles Area has the third largest metropolitan economy in 
the world, behind Greater Tokyo Area and New York Metropolitan Area. A 
2010 Greyhill Advisors study indicated that the Los Angeles metropolitan 
area had a gross metropolitan product of $736 billion.[42] Greater Los 
Angeles (including the Inland Empire and Ventura County) had a $770.6 billion 
economy.[43] Greater Los Angeles Area is the home of the US national headquarters 
of almost all Asian major car manufacturers except Nissan, Toyota, and 
Subaru (Nissan moved to Tennessee; Toyota moved to Texas; Subaru first 
located in Philadelphia but moved to New Jersey); Honda, Mazda, Mitsubishi, 
Suzuki, Hyundai and Kia have set up their national headquarters here.[citation 
needed] Promoted as the "Entertainment Capital of the World", Greater Los 
Angeles is one of the world's largest tourist destinations. Major attractions 
include: Beaches Shopping Motion picture studios Nightlife Amusement & 
theme parks Waterparks Zoos Aquariums Museums See List of museums in California 
Other The Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) defines an even larger region 
known as an "economic area" (EA), which delineates the relevant regional 
market surrounding a metropolitan area. "BEA's economic areas define the 
relevant regional markets surrounding metropolitan or micropolitan statistical 
areas. They consist of one or more economic nodes – metropolitan or micropolitan 
statistical areas that serve as regional centers of economic activity – 
and the surrounding counties that are economically related to the nodes." 
The Los Angeles economic area consists of the Los Angeles–Long Beach–Riverside 
Combined Statistical Area and includes the California counties of Imperial, 
Kern, Orange, Riverside, San Bernardino, San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara, 
and Ventura, as well as La Paz County and Yuma County in Arizona.[44] Greater 
Los Angeles supports large business districts throughout its urban area. 
The central business district is located at Downtown Los Angeles. Within 
the Los Angeles city limits are multiple districts, and other than Bunker 
Hill, these are Century City and businesses lining Wilshire Boulevard. 
Other major districts nearby Los Angeles include Downtown Long Beach, downtown 
Glendale, and downtown Burbank. In the southern reaches of Greater Los 
Angeles, major business districts include Newport Center, South Coast Metro, 
and the developing business district in Irvine. To the east major business 
districts include the respective centers of Downtown Riverside and Downtown 
San Bernardino. Greater Los Angeles is known for its expansive transportation 
network. Most notable is its extensive highway system. The area is a junction 
for numerous interstates coming from the north, east, and south and contains 
the three principal north-south highways in California: Interstate 5, U.S. 
Route 101, and California State Route 1. The area is also home to several 
ports, including the twin ports of Long Beach and Los Angeles, which are 
the two busiest in the United States, as well as Port of Hueneme.[45] Additionally, 
the region is also served by the Metrorail and Metrolink commuter rail 
systems that link neighborhoods of Los Angeles with immediate surrounding 
suburbs and most of the region (excluding the outer region of the Inland 
Empire) with Oceanside in San Diego County, respectively. Los Angeles International 
Airport (LAX) is the principal international airport of the region and 
is among one of the busiest in the world.[46] Other airports include LA/Ontario 
International Airport (ONT), John Wayne Airport (SNA), Bob Hope Airport 
(BUR), Long Beach Municipal Airport (LGB), and Palm Springs International 
Airport (PSP). The Greater Los Angeles area also has three well-known horse 
racing facilities: Santa Anita Park, Los Alamitos Race Course and the former 
Hollywood Park Racetrack and three major motorsport venues: Auto Club Speedway, 
Long Beach street circuit, and Auto Club Raceway at Pomona. In addition, 
the city of Los Angeles hosted the Summer Olympics in 1932 and 1984. For 
over twenty years the Los Angeles area media market lacked a National Football 
League team. After the 1994 season, the Los Angeles Rams moved to St. Louis, 
Missouri and the Los Angeles Raiders returned to their original home of 
Oakland, California due to the lack of an up-to-date NFL stadium. Since 
then there have been many plans to build a stadium to become home to an 
NFL team, including in the City of Industry and Downtown Los Angeles.[47] 
In 2009, the city council of the City of Industry approved[48] the construction 
of a stadium and Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger signed a bill with an environmental 
exemption to support a stadium in that city.[49] In 2011, the Los Angeles 
City Council approved plans to build Farmers Field in Downtown Los Angeles. 
After the 2015 NFL season, the Oakland Raiders, St. Louis Rams, and San 
Diego Chargers all submitted plans to relocate back to Los Angeles. On 
January 12, 2016, the St. Louis Rams were approved to move to Los Angeles, 
California and build the City of Champions Stadium while the Rams will 
temporarily play at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum for three seasons 
until the new City of Champions Stadium in Inglewood, California is completed.[50] 
1 Tokyo-Yokohama 2 Jakarta 3 Shanghai 4 Karachi 5 Delhi   6 Seoul-Incheon 
  7 Mexico City   8 Beijing   9 Lagos   10 São Paulo 11 Mumbai 12 New York 
13 Osaka 14 Dhaka 15 Kolkata 16 Tehran 17 Istanbul 18 London 19 Los Angeles 
