The Great Lakes region of North America is a bi-national Canadian-American 
region that includes portions of the eight U.S. states of Illinois, Indiana, 
Michigan, Minnesota, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin as well 
as the Canadian province of Ontario. The region borders the Great Lakes 
and forms a distinctive historical, economic, and cultural identity. A 
portion of the region also encompasses most of the Great Lakes Megalopolis, 
which extends outside the region to St. Louis, Missouri. The Great Lakes 
Commission, authorized by the region's American states and Province of 
Ontario, and the additional Canadian Province of Quebec, comprises a bi-national 
authority with specified powers to protect and preserve the water and environmental 
resources of the Great Lakes and surrounding waterways and aquifers. The 
Commission's authorities are confirmed by the Canadian and American federal 
governments, and by its constituent states and provinces. The Great Lakes 
region takes its name from the corresponding geological formation of the 
Great Lakes Basin, a narrow watershed encompassing The Great Lakes, bounded 
by watersheds to the region's north (Hudson Bay), west (Mississippi), east 
and south (Ohio). To the east, the rivers of St. Lawrence, Richelieu, Hudson, 
Mohawk and Susquehanna form an arc of watersheds east to The Atlantic. 
The Great Lakes region, as distinct from the Great Lakes Basin, defines 
a unit of sub-national political entities defined by the U.S. states and 
the Canadian Province of Ontario encompassing the Great Lakes watershed, 
and the states and Province bordering one or more of the Great Lakes. Prior 
to European settlement, Iroquoian people lived around Lakes Erie and Ontario, 
Algonquian peoples around most of the rest, and a variety of other indigenous 
nation-peoples including the Lakotan, Ojibwa, Illinois, Pottawatmie, Huron, 
Shawnee, Erie, Fox, Miami, Crow and Ho-Chunk (Winnebago). With the first 
permanent European settlements in the early seventeenth century, all these 
nation-peoples developed an extensive fur trade with French, Dutch, and 
English merchants in the St. Lawrence, Hudson and Mohawk Valleys, and Hudson's 
Bay, respectively. The prospects of fur monopolies and discovery of a fabled 
Northwest Passage to Asia generated sporadic but intense competition among 
the three most powerful northwest Europe imperial nations to control the 
territory. A century and a half of naval and land wars among France, The 
Netherlands and Britain resulted finally in British control of the region, 
from the Ohio River to the Arctic, and from the Atlantic to the Mississippi. 
Beyond the region, North American claims remained disputed among Britain, 
France, Spain and Russia. Britain defeated France decisively at the Battle 
of the Plains of Abraham near Quebec City in 1759, and the Treaty of Paris 
(1763) that ended the The Seven Years' War, known in America as the French 
and Indian War ceded the entire region to the victor. Britain's claims 
were intensely disputed by a confederation of Indians during Pontiac's 
Rebellion, which induced major concessions to still sovereign Indian nations; 
and by the Iroquois Confederacy, whose six member nations-Mohawk, Oneida, 
Onondaga, Cayuga, Seneca and Tuscarora-never conceded sovereignty to either 
Britain or, later, The United States.[1] During the American Revolution, 
the region was contested between Britain and rebellious American colonies. 
Hoping for favorable claims of territorial control in an eventual peace 
treaty with Britain, American adventurers led by Kentucky militia leader 
George Rogers Clark briefly occupied village settlements, including Cahokia, 
Kaskaskia and Vincennes unopposed, with passive support from Francophone 
inhabitants. In the Peace of Paris (1784) Britain ceded what became known 
as The Northwest Territory, the area bounded by Great Lakes, Mississippi 
and Ohio rivers, and the eastern colonies of New York and Pennsylvania, 
to the fledgling United States. Britain, which may have entertained ambitions 
to repossess the area if America failed to govern it, retained control 
over its forts and licensed fur trade for fifteen years. During the Confederacy 
Period of 1781–1789, the Continental Congress passed three ordinances whose 
authority was unclear regarding the region's governance on the American 
side. The Land Ordinance of 1784 established the broad outlines of future 
governance. The territory would be divided into six states, which would 
be given broad powers of constitutional instituting, and admitted to the 
nation as equal members. The Land Ordinance of 1785 specified the manner 
in which land would be distributed in the Territory, favoring sale in small 
parcels to settlers who would work their own farms. The Northwest Ordinance 
of 1787 defined the political protocols by which American states south 
of the lakes would enter the union as political equals with the original 
thirteen colonies. The ordinance, adopted in its final form just before 
the writing of the United States Constitution, was a sweeping, visionary 
proposal to create what was at the time a radical experiment in democratic 
governance and economy. The Northwest Ordinance of 1787 prohibited slavery, 
restricted primogeniture, mandated universal public education, provided 
for affordable farm land to people who settled and improved it, and required 
peaceful, lawful treatment of the Indian population. The ordinance prohibited 
the establishment of state religion and established civic rights that foreshadowed 
the United States Bill of Rights. Civil rights included freedom from cruel 
and unusual punishment, trial by jury, and exemption from unreasonable 
search and seizure. States were authorized to organize constitutional conventions 
and petition for admission as states equal to the original thirteen. Five 
states evolved from its provisions: Ohio, Indiana, Michigan, Illinois, 
and Wisconsin. The northeastern section of Minnesota, from the Mississippi 
to St. Croix River, also fell under ordinance jurisdiction and extended 
the constitution and culture of the Old Northwest to the Dakotas. The surge 
of settlement generated tension culminating in the Battle of Fallen Timbers 
in 1794. Britain, fearing that fast American settlement could lead to annexation 
of its western provinces, countered with The Constitution Act of 1791, 
granting limited self-government to Canadian provinces, and creating two 
new provinces out of Canada: Lower Canada (today's Quebec) and Upper Canada 
(Ontario). Settlement and economic expansion on both sides accelerated 
after the 1825 opening of The Erie Canal, an astonishingly successful public 
venture that effectively integrated markets and commerce between the Atlantic 
seaboard and the region. The region on both sides of the border became 
a vast research and design laboratory for agricultural machinery and techniques. 
Owner-operator family farms transformed both demographics and ecology into 
a vast terrain of farmlands, producing primarily wheat and corn. In western 
New York and northeast Ohio, the St. Lawrence, Mohawk, and Hudson rivers 
provided outlets for commercial corn and wheat, while The Ohio River let 
agricultural products from western Pennsylvania and southern Ohio, Indiana 
and Illinois journey downstream to New Orleans. Mining, primarily soft 
metals of copper, zinc, and lead; and timber to supply rapidly expanding 
sawmills that supplied lumber for new settlements. Agricultural and industrial 
production generated distinctive political and social cultures of independent 
republican producers, who consolidated an ideology of personal liberty, 
free markets, and great social visions, often expressed in religious terms 
and enthusiasms. The region's alliance of antislavery with free soil movements 
contributed troops and agricultural goods that proved critical in the Union's 
victory. The Homestead and Morrill Acts, donating federal land to extend 
the agrarian economic franchise, and support state universities, modeled 
western expansion and education for all future states. The British-Canadian 
London Conference of 1866, and subsequent Constitution Act of 1867 analogously 
derived from political, and some military, turmoil in the former jurisdiction 
of Upper Canada, which was renamed and organized in the new dominion as 
the Province of Ontario. Like the provisions of the ordinance, Ontario 
prohibited slavery, made provisions for land distribution to farmers who 
owned their own land, and mandated universal public education. Industrial 
production, organization, and technology have made the region among the 
world's most productive manufacturing centers. Nineteenth-century proto-monopolies 
such as International Harvester, Standard Oil, and United States Steel 
established the pattern of American centralized industrial consolidation 
and eventual global dominance. The region hosted the world's greatest concentrations 
of production for oil, coal, steel, automobiles, synthetic rubber, agricultural 
machinery, and heavy transport equipment. Agronomy industrialized as well, 
in meat processing, packaged cereal products, and processed dairy products. 
In response to disruptions and imbalances of power resulting from so vast 
a concentration of economic power, industrial workers organized the Congress 
of Industrial Organizations, a coherent agricultural cooperative movement, 
and the Progressive politics led by Wisconsin's Governor and Senator Robert 
LaFollette. State universities, professional social work, and unemployment 
and workers' compensation were some of the region's permanent contributions 
to American social policy. The Great Lakes region has produced globally 
influential breakthroughs in agricultural technology, transportation and 
building construction. Cyrus McCormick's reaper, John Deere's steel plow, 
Joseph Dart (Dart's Elevator), and George Washington Snow's balloon-frame 
construction are some of innovations that made significant, global impact. 
Case Western Reserve University and the University of Chicago figured prominently 
in developing nuclear power. Automobile manufacture developed simultaneously 
in Ohio and Indiana and became centered in the Detroit area of Michigan. 
Henry Ford's movable assembly line drew on regional experience in meat 
processing, agricultural machinery manufacture, and the industrial engineering 
of steel in revolutionizing the modern era of mass production manufacturing. 
Chicago-based Montgomery Ward and Sears Roebuck companies complemented 
mass manufactures with mass retail distribution. Chicago and Detroit carry 
important roles in the field of architecture. William LeBaron Jenney was 
the architect of the first skyscraper in the world; The Home Insurance 
Building in Chicago is the first skyscraper because of the use of structural 
steel in the building. Engineering innovation established Chicago from 
that time on to become one of the world's most influential epicenters of 
contemporary urban and commercial architecture. Less famous, but equally 
influential, was the 1832 invention of balloon-framing in Chicago that 
replaced heavy timber construction requiring massive beams and great woodworking 
skill with pre-cut timber. This new lumber could be nailed together by 
farmers and settlers who used it to build homes and barns throughout the 
western prairies and plains. Wisconsin-born, Chicago-trained Sullivan apprentice 
Frank Lloyd Wright designed prototypes for architectural designs from the 
commercial skylight atrium to suburban ranch house. German-born Pennsylvania 
immigrant John A. Roebling invented steel wire rope, a pivotal part of 
suspension bridges he designed and whose construction he supervised in 
Pittsburgh, Cincinnati and Buffalo, based on earlier successful canal aqueducts. 
His most famous project was the Brooklyn Bridge. Contributions to modern 
transportation include the Wright brothers' early airplanes, designed and 
perfected in their Dayton, Ohio mechanics' workshops; distinctive Great 
Lakes freighters, and railroad beds constructed of wooden ties and steel 
rails. The early nineteenth century Erie Canal and mid-twentieth century 
St. Lawrence Seaway expanded the scale and capacity of massive water-born 
freight. Agricultural associations joined the nineteenth century Grange, 
which in turn generated the agricultural cooperatives that defined much 
of rural political economy and culture throughout the region. Fraternal, 
ethnic, and civic organizations extended cooperatives and supported local 
ventures from insurance companies to orphanages and hospitals. The region 
was the political base, and provided much leadership political parties 
in the region. The region's greatest institutional contributions were major 
corporate, labor, educational and cooperative organizations. It hosted 
some of the most influential national and international corporations of 
the late nineteenth and early twentieth century monopoly age, including 
John Deere Plow, McCormack Reaper, New York Central and Erie railroads, 
Carnegie Steel, U.S. Steel, International Harvester and Standard Oil. In 
part to balance democratic representation against the economic and political 
power of these corporations, the region hosted industrial labor organization, 
consolidated agricultural cooperatives and state educational systems. The 
Big Ten Conference memorializes the nation's first region in which every 
state sponsored major research, technical-agricultural, and teacher-training 
colleges and universities. The Congress of Industrial Organizations grew 
out of the region's coal and iron mines; steel, automobile and rubber industries; 
and breakthrough strikes and contracts of Ohio, Indiana, and Michigan. 
During World War II, the region became the global epicenter of motorized 
land vehicles, including cars, trucks and jeeps, as well as a major supplier 
of engine, transmission, and electrical components to the wartime aeronautics 
industry. Despite extreme labor shortages, the region increased mechanization, 
and absorbed large numbers of women and immigrant labor, to increase its 
food production. Navigable terrain, waterways, and ports spurred an unprecedented 
construction of transportation infrastructure throughout the region. The 
region is a global leader in advanced manufacturing and research and development, 
with significant innovations in both production processes and business 
organization. John D. Rockefeller's Standard Oil set precedents for centralized 
pricing, uniform distribution, and controlled product standards through 
Standard Oil, which started as a consolidated refinery in Cleveland. Cyrus 
McCormick's Reaper and other manufacturers of agricultural machinery consolidated 
into International Harvester in Chicago. Andrew Carnegie's steel production 
integrated large-scale open-hearth and Bessemer processes into the world's 
most efficient and profitable mills. The largest, most comprehensive monopoly 
in the world, United States Steel, consolidated steel production throughout 
the region. Many of the world's largest employers began in the Great Lakes 
region. Mass marketing in the modern sense was born in the region. Two 
competing Chicago retailers—Montgomery Ward and Sears Roebuck—developed 
mass marketing and sales through catalogues, mail-order distribution, and 
the establishment of their brand names as purveyors of consumer goods. 
The region's natural features, cultural institutions, and resorts make 
it a popular destination for tourism. Advantages of accessible waterways, 
highly developed transportation infrastructure, finance, and a prosperous 
market base make the region the global leader in automobile production 
and a global business location. Henry Ford's movable assembly line and 
integrated production set the model and standard for major car manufactures. 
The Detroit area emerged as the world's automotive center, with facilities 
throughout the region. Akron, Ohio became the global leader in rubber production, 
driven by the demand for tires. Over 200 million tons of cargo are shipped 
annually through the Great Lakes.[2][3][4] According to the Brookings Institution, 
if it stood alone as a country, the Great Lakes economy would be one of 
the largest economic units on earth (with a $4.5-trillion gross regional 
product). It contains most of an area urban planners have viewed as an 
emerging Great Lakes Megalopolis which has an estimated 54 million people. 
Furthermore, Greater Montreal, a major metropolitan area in the Canadian 
province of Quebec, links to the region along the St. Lawrence Seaway. 
