The Great Lakes Loons, based in Midland, Michigan, is a Low Class A minor 
league baseball team, affiliated with the Los Angeles Dodgers. The team 
plays in the Midwest League and their home park is Dow Diamond, which opened 
in April 2007. The Midwest League came to Battle Creek, in 1995 after the 
franchise formerly known as the Madison Hatters moved. The team was first 
known as the Battle Creek Golden Kazoos. Due to a trademark dispute and 
general fan dissatisfaction with the name (which is a nickname for the 
nearby city of Kalamazoo), the name was changed to the Michigan Battle 
Cats on March 9, 1995. The team was affiliated with the Boston Red Sox 
(1995–98) and Houston Astros (1999–2002). The team changed its name to 
the Battle Creek Yankees after becoming an affiliate of the New York Yankees 
in 2003. The Tampa Bay Devil Rays took over affiliation of the team in 
September 2004, changing the team name to Southwest Michigan Devil Rays. 
In September 2006, the team announced its affiliation with the Los Angeles 
Dodgers. In January 2006, it was confirmed that the Devil Rays would be 
sold to the non-profit Michigan Baseball Foundation and relocated to Midland, 
Michigan. The team has been renamed the Great Lakes Loons. The main reason 
the team relocated was because of the lack of interest from the Battle 
Creek community. Reduced ticket prices (even a night when fans were actually 
offered a dollar to come to that night's game) also failed to pique the 
interest of local residents. Naming rights for the Loons' stadium were 
purchased by Dow Chemical, which is headquartered in Midland. The company 
named the stadium "Dow Diamond." The name is a play on the company's logo, 
a red diamond. In November 2006, The Loons named former Detroit Tiger Lance 
Parrish as the team's first manager since the move to Michigan's Tri-City 
Area. The first home game was played on April 13, 2007 which resulted in 
a loss to the Lansing Lugnuts. The Loons hosted the 2008 Midwest League 
All-Star Game, in just their second season. On August 10, 2013, the Loons 
hosted their biggest crowd ever at 6,189 people.[2] Dow Diamond will host 
the All-Star Game again in 2017.[3] Lou E. Loon is the team mascot and 
Ambassador of Fun for the team. He's an energetic bird who loves to dance 
at home games and make public appearances. The kids' play area at the diamond 
is named Lou E.'s Lookout in his honor. He often leads fans in his signature 
cheer, the "Funky Feather", which won "Best In-Game Promotion of the Year" 
in 2009 for Minor League Baseball. "Rall E. Camel" was introduced as the 
team's second mascot in April 2012. He is an honorary deputy ambassador 
of mischief and is an ostensibly goofy addition to the staff of the Great 
Lakes Loons. Notable alumni of the Midwest League, Battle Creek franchise 
include Rafael Betancourt, Justin Duchscherer, Shea Hillenbrand, Matt Kinney, 
Jason Lane, Aaron Miles, Melky Cabrera, Roy Oswalt, Carl Pavano, Tim Redding, 
Chris Reitsma, and Johan Santana. There have been 41 former Loons have 
made it to the major leagues. Left-handed pitcher Clayton Kershaw debuted 
in 2008 and is now in the Dodgers' starting rotation. In 2010, a trio of 
past Great Lakes players made it to the show. Cleveland Indians catcher 
Carlos Santana, Orioles third baseman Josh Bell, and pitcher Kenley Jansen 
of Dodgers all spent time in the big leagues. Dee Gordon won the 2015 National 
League Batting Title. Other notable former Loons include Nathan Eovaldi, 
Dee Gordon, Javy Guerra, Dean Kremer, Andrew Lambo, Josh Lindblom, Matt 
Magill, Rubby De La Rosa, Steven Rodriguez, Jerry Sands, Shawn Tolleson, 
Josh Wall, José Dominguez, Allen Webster, and Scott Van Slyke.[4] Pitchers 
Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches 7-day disabled list * On 
Los Angeles Dodgers 40-man roster # Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve list ‡ Restricted 
list § Suspended list † Temporary inactive list Roster updated October 
1, 2016 Transactions → More MiLB rosters → Los Angeles Dodgers minor league 
