Austin–Round Rock is a five-county metropolitan area in the U.S. state 
of Texas, as defined by the Office of Management and Budget.[2] Commonly 
referred to as Greater Austin, the metropolitan area is situated in Central 
Texas on the eastern edge of the American Southwest, and borders San Antonio–New 
Braunfels to the south. Austin–Round Rock is the 35th largest metropolitan 
area in the United States, with a population over 2 million people and 
16th largest GDP per Capita as of the 2014 U.S. census estimate.[3] The 
metropolitan area is centered on the City of Austin—the fourth-largest 
city in Texas and the 11th-largest city in the United States with a population 
of 912,791 people. Austin's largest suburbs are Round Rock, Cedar Park, 
Georgetown and San Marcos. As of 2013[update] the U.S. Office of Management 
and Budget defines the Austin–Round Rock MSA as including Bastrop, Caldwell, 
Hays, Travis, and Williamson Counties. The U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis 
includes the counties of Blanco, Burnet, Lee, Llano, Mason, and Milam Counties, 
in addition to the Austin MSA, in its definition of the Austin Economic 
Area.[4] The Capital Area Council of Governments, an Austin-area intergovernmental 
cooperative, adds Blanco, Burnet, Fayette, Lee, and Llano Counties to the 
MSA counties in its definition of the metropolitan area.[5] Other counties 
in Central Texas included by some sources are Burleson, Colorado, and Gillespie 
Counties.[6] The two largest cities in the metropolitan area are Austin 
and Round Rock. Other large municipalities in the Austin–Round Rock–San Marcos 
MSA (cities with over 25,000 people as of the 2008 census) are, in order 
of size, Cedar Park, San Marcos, Georgetown, Pflugerville, Kyle and Leander.[7][8] 
More distant communities such as Marble Falls, Burnet, Johnson City, Killeen, 
and Lampasas are sometimes considered part of Greater Austin though they 
fall well outside the bounds of the OMB definitions.[9] There are over 
4 million people in the San Antonio-Austin corridor. The areas in and around 
Austin have been the site of human habitation since at least 9,000 B.C., 
and possibly considerably before that. The earliest known inhabitants of 
the area, during the late Pleistocene (Ice Age), can be linked to the Clovis 
people around 9200 B.C. just west of Williamson County.[10] But archeology 
dig sites show a much greater evidence of Archaic Period inhabitants has 
been recovered from burned rock middens and rock shelters near Round Rock 
along Brushy Creek, in Georgetown along the San Gabriel River, and in Austin 
especially near Barton Springs. The earliest known historical occupants 
of the area, the Tonkawas, were a flint-working, hunting people who followed 
the buffalo on foot and periodically set fire to the prairie to aid them 
in their hunts. During the 18th century they made the transition to a horse 
culture and used firearms to a limited extent. After they were crowded 
out by white settlement, the Comanches continued to raid settlements in 
the county until the 1860s. There also appear to have been small numbers 
of Kiowa, Yojuane, Tawakoni, and Mayeye Indians living in the Travis and 
Williamson counties at the time of the earliest Anglo settlements.[11] 
The prehistory of Texas has been studied by both professional and avocational 
archeologists for many decades. Pre-historic campsites are found throughout 
the county along streams or other water sources; most are "open occupation" 
sites, though caves and rockshelters are often found along various rivers 
and streams.[12] When Europeans first arrived in the area, the Tonkawa 
tribe was the most prevalent, though the Comanches and Lipan Apaches were 
known to travel through the area as well.[13] Spanish explorers, including 
the Espinosa-Olivares-Aguirre expedition, traveled through the area for 
centuries though few permanent settlements were created for some time.[14] 
In the mid-18th century the San Xavier missions were established along 
the San Gabriel River in what is now western Milam County to facilitate 
exploration.[11] In 1804 the fort Puesta del Colorado was established by 
the Spanish in what is now Bastrop.[15] In 1807 the San Marcos de Neve 
settlement (modern San Marcos) was established on the San Marcos River.[14] 
Following the independence of Mexico, of which Texas was a part, the empresario 
Stephen F. Austin issued grants to settlers in what is now Bastrop and 
Fayette Counties. During the mid-1820s settlements were established along 
the Colorado River near modern La Grange.[16] The village of Mina (later 
renamed Bastrop) was established in 1827. Growth of the settlements was 
stagnant for some time because of conflicts with the Native Americans in 
the region.[15] Nevertheless, the region sat along an important trade route 
known as the Camino Real de los Tejas, which ran from Mexico, though San 
Antonio and San Marcos, to Natchitoches.[17] During the 1830s others, such 
as Martín Veramendi and Thomas G. McGehee, were issued land grants by the 
Mexican government to encourage settlement in the region.[14] A string 
of forts was established east of modern Austin in what was then the western 
frontier.[18] In 1835 Texans fought for independence in what was known 
as the Texas Revolution and won. Following independence other settlements 
were gradually established including Waterloo and Brushy Creek (modern 
Round Rock).[11] In 1839 a commission appointed by Texas President Mirabeau 
B. Lamar selected Waterloo as the site for the new capital and the name 
Austin was chosen as the town's new name.[19] In 1840 a series of conflicts 
between the Texas Rangers and the Comanches known as the Council House 
Fight and the Battle of Plum Creek finally pushed the Comanches westward 
mostly ending conflicts in Central Texas.[20] Settlement in the area began 
to expand quickly. Travis County was established in 1840 and the surrounding 
counties were mostly established within the next two decades.[18] New settlements 
were established such as Hamilton (now Burnet) in 1852. In 1861, with the 
outbreak of the American Civil War, voters in Austin, Bastrop, and other 
Central Texas communities and counties voted against secession.[15][21] 
However, as the war progressed and fears of attack by Union forces increased, 
the communities contributed hundreds of men to the Confederate forces. 
With the end of the war and the emancipation of Texas slaves, the African 
American population of the area swelled dramatically. Black communities 
such as Wheatville, Pleasant Hill, and Clarksville were established around 
Austin by these newcomers.[21] The postwar period saw dramatic population 
and economic growth. The town of Bastrop became a significant manufacturing 
center producing iron, coal, and textiles.[15] The Chisolm Trail, one of 
the major routes for exporting cattle, passed through the region.[22] The 
opening of the Houston and Texas Central Railway, connecting Austin with 
Houston, transformed Austin into the major trading center for the region. 
However, as new railroads were built through the region in the 1870s, Round 
Rock and other communities took over much of Austin's role as a trading 
center.[21] In 1868 the Coronal Institute was established in San Marcos 
and in 1873 Texas University (later renamed Southwestern University) was 
opened in Georgetown following the consolidation of five earlier colleges.[23][24] 
During the 1880s Austin gained new prominence as the state capitol building 
was constructed and other universities were established in the area, most 
notably the University of Texas.[21] Cattle and cotton production were 
major economic drivers for many outlying communities.[25] In the late 19th 
century Austin expanded its city limits to more than three times its former 
area and the Austin Dam was built to power a new street car line and the 
new municipal water system.[21] In the early 20th century the Texas Oil 
Boom took hold creating tremendous economic opportunities in Southeast 
Texas and North Texas. The growth generated by this boom largest passed 
by Austin at first, with the city slipping from 4th largest to 10th largest 
in Texas between 1880 and 1920.[21] Bastrop, however, became a significant 
center for oil drilling and coal mining in the early-to-mid-20th century.[15] 
San Marcos, and some other communities, established significant manufacturing 
operations during the world wars substantially diversifying their economies.[25] 
Beginning in the 1920s and 1930s, Austin launched a series of civic development 
and beautification projects that created much of the city's infrastructure 
and parks. In addition the state legislature established the Lower Colorado 
River Authority that, along with the City of Austin, created the system 
of dams along the Colorado River that formed the Highland Lakes. These 
projects were enabled in large part by the fact that Austin received more 
Depression era relief funds than any other Texas city.[21] During the mid- 
and later 20th century Austin became firmly established as the major metropolitan 
center of what is now Greater Austin. Communities such as Round Rock, Georgetown, 
and San Marcos increasingly became attractive bedroom communities for Austin, 
even as each of these communities has maintained its own economic core 
as well.[25]/. In the late 20th century, the face of the Austin community 
is changing.[26][27] Greater Austin is located in Central Texas along the 
Balcones Fault and Interstate 35, northeast of San Antonio. As a result 
of its straddling the Balcones Fault the eastern part of the city is flat, 
whereas the western part and western suburbs consist of rolling hills on 
the edge of the Texas Hill Country.[28] The region is crossed by the Colorado 
River with several man-made lakes, known as the Highland Lakes, along its 
length.[21] Because the hills to the west are primarily limestone rock 
with a thin covering of topsoil, the western portions of the area are frequently 
subjected to flash floods from the runoff caused by thunderstorms.[29][30] 
To help control this runoff and to generate hydroelectric power, the Lower 
Colorado River Authority operates a series of dams that form the lakes.[31] 
The Austin area is located at the intersection of four major ecological 
regions and is consequently a temperate-to-hot green oasis with a highly 
variable climate having some characteristics of the desert, the tropics, 
and a wetter climate.[32] The area is very diverse ecologically and biologically, 
and is home to a variety of animals and plants.[33] The soils of Central 
Texas range from shallow, gravelly clay loams over limestone in the western 
outskirts to deep, fine sandy loams, silty clay loams, silty clays or clays 
in the city's eastern part. Some of the clays have pronounced shrink-swell 
properties and are difficult to work under most moisture conditions. Many 
of Austin's soils, especially the clay-rich types, are slightly to moderately 
alkaline and have free calcium carbonate.[34] Greater Austin has a humid 
subtropical climate, characterized by hot summers and mild winters.[35] 
On average, the City of Austin receives 33.6 inches (853.4 mm) of rain 
per year, with most of the precipitation in the spring, and a secondary 
maximum in the fall.[36] To the east, away from the Hill Country, precipitation 
is typically higher. For example, Bastrop receives an average of 38.0 inches 
(965.2 mm) of rain per year.[37] During springtime, severe thunderstorms 
sometimes occur, though tornados are rare in the city. Austin is usually 
at least partially sunny. Central Texas summers are usually hot and humid, 
with average temperatures of approximately 90 degrees Fahrenheit (32 Celsius) 
from June until September. Temperatures above 100 °F (38 °C) are common.[35][36][38] 
For the entire year there is an average of 111 days above 90 °F (32 °C) 
and 198 days above 80 °F (27 °C) in the City of Austin.[35] In general 
temperatures are somewhat cooler to the west in the Hill Country than in 
the plains to the east. The average August high temperature in Marble Falls 
in 94 °F (34 °C)compared to 96 °F (36 °C) in Bastrop, and the average January 
low in Marble Falls is 33 °F (1 °C) compared to 37 °F (3 °C) in Bastrop.[37][39] 
Winters in the Austin area are mild and dry. For the entire year, Austin 
averages 88 days below 45 °F (7 °C) and 24 days when the minimum temperature 
falls below freezing. Snowfall is rare in Central Texas, but the area suffers 
occasional ice storms each year that freeze over roads and can affect parts 
of the region for as much as 48 hours or more.[35] Greater Austin has a 
diverse economy heavily anchored by government activities and education. 
High-tech firms, particularly related to semiconductors and software, are 
also important economic pillars. The five-county MSA had a gross domestic 
product of $90.9 billion in 2011, making it the 35th largest metropolitan 
economy in the U.S.[45] Most of the area's largest employers are all within 
the City of Austin. These include Advanced Micro Devices, Apple, Inc., 
Austin Independent School District, the City of Austin, Freescale Semiconductor, 
IBM, Seton Healthcare Network, the Texas Government, the United States 
Government, and the University of Texas at Austin.[44] Major employers 
outside of Austin include Dell (Round Rock), MD/Totco in Cedar Park (a 
division of National Oilwell Varco), Southwestern University in Georgetown, 
and Texas State University in San Marcos. The principal highways in the 
metropolitan area are Interstate 35 and the MoPac Expressway (State Highway 
Loop 1), both of which are the primary North/South roadways. Other important 
arteries in the city and its immediate vicinity are U.S. Highway 183 (also 
known as "Research Blvd."), and U.S. Highway 290 (also known as "Ben White 
Blvd.") which provide East/West thoroughfares. Other important highways 
include State Highway 71 which connects Austin with Houston to the south, 
and to Marble Falls and the Highland Lakes chain to the west. And State 
Highway Loop 360 is a scenic highway which runs to the North/South on the 
west side of Austin but curves westward into the hills. Loop 360 carries 
special scenic zoning as well preventing billboards and minimizing views 
of the surrounding buildings. Austin's new toll roads include State Highway 
130, U.S. Highway 183-A, and State Highway 45 discussed below. Interstate 
10 also runs through the extreme southern portion of Caldwell County. In 
November 2006, the Texas Department of Transportation (CTRMA)[46] opened 
the first segment of the region's first toll road system. Both State Highway 
130 and State Highway 45 toll roads run through portions of Austin and 
provide greatly increased mobility to the city. State Highway 130 prior 
to 2013 ran just south of Austin Bergstrom International Airport at US 
Highway 183 and ended at Interstate 35 north of Georgetown. It provides 
mobility and access to the easternmost part of Austin and Travis County, 
and allows residents in Williamson County easy access to the airport. This 
project, completed in October 2012, now ends at Interstate 10 just east 
of Seguin, about 30 miles east-northeast of San Antonio. The speed limit 
on the newly completed stretch is the highest in the United States at 85 mph 
(137 km/h). State Highway 45 is part of an eventual partial loop that runs 
east from State Highway 183 in Cedar Park to 130 at Pflugerville (east 
of Round Rock) where it merges with the SH 130 toll road, and then intercects 
with the southern portion of SH 45 near Buda, south of Austin. SH 45 is 
one of the very few East/West connectors in Austin, but it also connects 
to a tolled extension of Loop 1 (also known locally as the "Mopac Expressway") 
and allows direct access from to I-35 to Loop 1 by use of flyover connections 
rather than ground level intersections. The toll roads also provide access 
to the Dell headquarters and its approximately 16,000 employees.[47] Despite 
the overwhelming initial opposition to the toll road concept, both toll 
roads have improved mobility in and around the Austin area and are significantly 
exceeding their revenue projections.[48] The metro area is served by buses 
of the Capital Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Capital Metro). Capital 
Metro operates 48 fixed-route, 1 flex-route, and eight express bus services 
within the city of Austin and several nearby suburbs in Travis and Williamson 
counties. Capital Metro also operates the shuttles of the University of 
Texas, which provides limited-stop services to and from neighborhoods where 
many university students reside. A commuter rail service—the Red line of 
Capital MetroRail—began service on 22 March 2010, connecting Downtown Austin 
with the city of Leander.[49] In 2000, U.S. Census Bureau estimated that 
in the Austin–Round Rock–San Marcos MSA there were 1,249,763 people, 471,855 
households, and 295,781 families. The racial makeup of the metropolitan 
area was 72.5% White, 8.0% African American, 0.6% Native American, 3.5% 
Asian, 0.1% Pacific Islander, 12.8% from other races, and 2.6% from two 
or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 26.2% of the population. 
As of 2010[update], U.S. Census Bureau estimated that in the Austin–Round 
Rock–San Marcos MSA there were 1,719,289 people. The racial makeup of the 
metropolitan area was 72.9% White, 7.4% African American, 0.8% Native American, 
4.8% Asian, 0.1% Pacific Islander, 10.9% from other races, and 3.2% from 
two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 31.4% of the population. 
The median income for a household in the MSA was $46,512 and the median 
income for a family was $54,361. Males had a median income of $35,612 versus 
$27,095 for females. The per capita income for the MSA was $20,721. As 
of 2014[update], the U.S. Census Bureau estimated the population of the 
Austin–Round Rock MSA had increased to 1,943,299.[3] In 2010, the urban 
area population (as defined by the Census Bureau) was estimated to be 1,362,416 
while the 2013 population of Austin proper estimated at 885,400.[51][52] 
The region contains numerous universities. Major area universities include 
the University of Texas at Austin (flagship of the University of Texas 
System), Texas State University, and Southwestern University (Georgetown). 
The city of Austin itself contains numerous other institutions of higher 
education including Austin Presbyterian Theological Seminary, Concordia 
University, Huston-Tillotson University, St. Edward's University, and others. 
Additional institutions in the suburban communities include Temple College 
in Taylor and the Texas State University extension in Round Rock. In 2006, 
35% of adults in the City of Austin held college degrees, fourth place 
among the 77 largest cities in the U.S.[53] As of 2010[update] this percentage 
had climbed to 43.3%. In Round Rock 37.2% of adults held degrees, in Pflugerville 
40.50% held degrees, in Cedar Park 39.1% held degrees, and in San Marcos 
34.1% held degrees.[54] This compares to 23.2% for all of Texas and 24.4% 
for the entire U.S. making the Austin area one of the most educated metropolitan 
areas in the U.S.[55][56] The region is served by numerous school districts. 
As of 2010[update] the Greater Austin Chamber of Commerce lists 29 public 
school districts, 17 charter schools, and 69 private schools.[57] The Chamber 
lists as the primary districts Austin ISD, Bastrop ISD, Del Valle ISD, 
Eanes ISD, Georgetown ISD, Hays CISD, Lake Travis ISD, Leander ISD, Pflugerville 
ISD, and Round Rock ISD.[58] Adding to this list the San Marcos Consolidated 
Independent School District, there are a total of 11 core districts. As 
of 2009[update] the Texas Education Agency ranks one district, Eanes, as 
"Exemplary", the highest rating. Three districts, Del Valle, Leander, and 
Round Rock, are ranked as "Recognized", the second highest rating. All 
of the others are ranked as "Academically Acceptable". These 12 districts 
operate 330 individual schools. Of these schools 98 (30%) are ranked as 
"Exemplary", and 87 (26%) are ranked as "Recognized".[59] Major private 
schools in the area include Redeemer Lutheran School, Brentwood Christian 
School, Hill Country Christian School, Hyde Park Baptist School, the Regents 
School, Round Rock Christian Academy (Round Rock), Summit Christian Academy 
(Leander), St. Andrew's Episcopal School, and St. Michael's Academy.[60] 
The communities in Greater Austin hold many annual events. In Austin two 
of the most well known festivals are the South by Southwest Music and Film 
Festival and the Austin City Limits Music Festival, which draw artists 
and spectators from around the world. Many other Austin festivals take 
place including the Old Pecan Street Festival, Blues on the Green, and 
the Laguna Gloria Art Museum Fiesta.[61] The Texas Hill Country Wine and 
Food Festival is centered in Austin but takes place at restaurants and 
venues in multiple communities.[62] Outside of Austin many communities 
host local events of their own. Marble Falls hosts the Bluebonnet Blues 
and Fine Arts Festival, an event that attracts artists and performers from 
around the state to the community's downtown. Burnet hosts the Spring Bluebonnet 
Festival, which features a golf tournament, car shows, vintage airplane 
shows, and other activities.[63] The Old Settler's Music Festival in Driftwood 
features live outdoor performances ranging from folk music to bluegrass 
and jazz.[64] Some area communities host civic heritage festivals including 
the Cedar Park Heritage Festival and the Chisolm Trail Round Up in Lockhart.[65][66] 
The Oktoberfest celebration in Fredericksburg is one of the largest and 
most traditional in Texas.[67] Rodeo fairs occur annually including the 
Star of Texas Fair and Rodeo and the Burnet Rodeo. Austin has adopted the 
nickname "Live Music Capital of the World" based on its claim of having 
the highest percentage of music performers of any other major city.[68] 
The city has a variety of venues for live music performance of popular 
and country music including famous clubs such as Antone's and Emo's. The 
long-running television program Austin City Limits has for decades showcased 
the city's music scene, as has the South by Southwest festival and other 
events in the city. Apart from these the city hosts major classical music 
performances via the Austin Lyric Opera and the Austin Symphony Orchestra. 
Other communities in the Austin Area host their own music venues and organizations 
as well. The Williamson County Symphony Orchestra, founded in 2002, offers 
performances at locations throughout the county.[69] The Starlight Symphony, 
a community orchestra, offers performances at various venues within the 
southwestern areas of Greater Austin including San Marcos, Dripping Springs, 
and Johnson City.[70] The Round Rock Symphony, a recently established organization, 
offers performances within Round Rock.[71] The Austin metropolitan area 
has no major-league professional sports teams (making it the largest market 
in North America not to have any such franchises), but is home to several 
minor-league teams, as well as the Texas Longhorns collegiate sports programs 
and the Circuit of the Americas motor-racing circuit. Regional professional 
sports clubs include the Round Rock Express in AAA baseball, the Texas 
Stars in AHL hockey, the Austin Spurs in D-League basketball, the Austin 
Aztex in USL soccer, the Austin Outlaws in WFA football, and the Austin 
Aces in WTT tennis. In professional motorsport, the Circuit of the Americas 
hosts the United States Grand Prix and the Motorcycle Grand Prix of the 
Americas, as well as the X Games. Austin also hosts the Texas Rollergirls 
flat-track roller derby league. The region is also home to several endurance 
and multi-sport race events, including the Austin Marathon, the Capitol 
10K race, and the Capital of Texas Triathlon. Sizeable running, swimming 
and bicycling communities make use of a network of trails and greenbelts 
centered on the Lady Bird Lake Hike and Bike Trail and local pools like 
Barton Springs Pool. The Austin area has long been known for its outdoor 
attractions and is home to numerous parks and nature preserves. Major parks 
within the City of Austin include McKinney Falls State Park, Emma Long 
Metropolitan Park, Zilker Park, and Hippie Hollow Park. Mount Bonnell Park 
is a popular destination, located at one of the highest points in the city. 
Outside of the Austin various other parks, including Bastrop State Park, 
Lockhart State Park, and Longhorn Cavern State Park, are available. Further 
from the area's core is the Enchanted Rock State Natural Area, a 640-acre 
(260 ha) park near Fredericksburg featuring a large granite mound that 
is popular with hikers and climbers. Additionally Pedernales Falls State 
Park in Johnson City, and Inks Lake State Park in Burnet, are among the 
many other parks available in Central Texas. The largest nature preserve 
in the area is the Balcones Canyonlands National Wildlife Refuge, a preserve 
northwest of Austin near Burnet and Marble Falls comprising 21,436 acres 
(8,675 ha).[72] Other preserves in the area include the Wild Basin Wilderness 
Preserve, the Indiangrass Wildlife Sanctuary, and the Onion Creek Wildlife 
Sanctuary. These preserves are all part of the Heart of Texas Wildlife 
Trail, a network of trails and sites for viewing wildlife habitats, created 
by the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department. Austin's Chinatown (Chinese: 
奥斯汀唐人街; pinyin: ào sī tīng táng rén jiē), established in 2006, is located 
at 10901 N. Lamar Blvd.,[73] and features top reviewed restaurants and 
supermarkets according to an article by the Austin Chronicle.[74] According 
to Belinda Mendoza in her book, she references Austin's Chinatown as a 
place to "... buy some colorful Chinese firecrackers."[75] According to 
Cam Rossie and Hilary Hylton, Austin's Chinatown is a series of stores 
