Great American Ball Park is a baseball stadium in Cincinnati, Ohio, which 
is the home field of Major League Baseball's Cincinnati Reds. It opened 
in 2003, replacing Cinergy Field (formerly Riverfront Stadium), their home 
field from 1970 to 2002.[8] The park's name comes from the Great American 
Insurance Group.[9][10] The ballpark hosted the 2015 Major League Baseball 
All-Star Game. The Reds put in $5 million for improvements, which included 
two new bars and upgraded concession stands.[11] In 1996, Hamilton County 
voters passed a ½% sales tax increase to fund the construction of new venues 
for both the Reds and the Cincinnati Bengals of the National Football League 
(NFL).[6] The Reds and the Bengals had previously shared occupancy of Cinergy 
Field, but by the mid-1990s, they complained that the multi-purpose stadium 
lacked amenities necessary for small-market professional sports teams to 
compete and each lobbied for venues of their own.[12] Nearby Paul Brown 
Stadium broke ground in 1998 and was opened on August 19, 2000. Great American 
Ball Park was built by the architectural firms Populous (then HOK Sport) 
and GBBN at a cost of approximately US$290 million. It is located on the 
plot of land between the former site of Cinergy Field and US Bank Arena; 
it was known locally as the "wedge". The limited construction space necessitated 
the partial demolition of Cinergy Field. It was fully demolished on December 
29, 2002.[13] The original address of Great American Ball Park was 100 
Main Street. However, after the death of former pitcher and longtime broadcaster 
Joe Nuxhall in 2007, the address was changed to 100 Joe Nuxhall Way. A 
sign bearing Nuxhall's traditional signoff phrase "rounding third and heading 
for home" is located on the third base side exterior of the park. The Cincinnati 
Reds Hall of Fame and Museum is adjacent to Great American Ball Park. In 
honor of Crosley Field, the Cincinnati Reds' home park from 1912 to June 
1970, a monument reminiscent of the park's infamous left field terrace 
was built on the main entrance plaza on Joe Nuxhall Way; statues of Crosley-era 
stars Nuxhall, catcher Ernie Lombardi, first baseman Ted Kluszewski, and 
outfielder Frank Robinson are depicted playing an imaginary baseball game.[14] 
The Gap. A 35-foot-(10.7-m)-wide break in the stands between home plate 
and third base called "The Gap" is bridged by the concourse on each level 
(see photo). Aligned with Sycamore Street, it provides views into the stadium 
from downtown and out to the skyline from within the park. Power Stacks. 
In right center field, two smokestacks, reminiscent of the steamboats that 
were common on the Ohio River in the 19th and early 20th centuries, flash 
lights, emit flames and launch fireworks to incite or respond to the home 
team's efforts. When the Reds strike out a batter, fire blows out of the 
stacks beginning with the 2012 season (previously, steam was spewed out 
following a strikeout). Fireworks are launched from the stacks after every 
Reds home run and win. The seven baseball bats featured on both smokestacks 
symbolize the #14 of Pete Rose.[15][16] On May 15, 2015, a part of the 
top of the right smokestack caught on fire during the 6th inning of a Reds 
game, caused by a loose propane valve, causing smoke to be blown across 
the field, several sections of seats to be evacuated, and the Cincinnati 
Fire Department being called to put it out. No one was injured.[17] The 
Spirit of Baseball. A 50-foot-by-20-foot (15 x 6 m) Indiana limestone bas 
relief carving near the main entrance features a young baseball player 
looking up to the heroic figures of a batter, pitcher and fielder, all 
set against the background of many of Cincinnati's landmarks, including 
the riverfront and Union Terminal. Local designers and artist created the 
piece between 2001 and 2003 with concept, design and project oversight 
/ management by Berberich Design. The illustrative artist was Mark Riedy, 
the sculptors of the scale model used for fabrication were Todd Myers and 
Paul Brooke with fabrication by Mees Distributors. The Mosaics. Just inside 
the main gates off the Crosley Terrace you will find two mosaic panels 
measuring 16 feet wide by 10 feet high. The mosaics depict two key eras 
in Reds history: "The First Nine", the 1869 Red Stockings who were the 
first professional baseball team in history with a record of 57-0 in their 
first season and "The Great Eight", the famous Big Red Machine that won 
back-to-back World Series in 1975 and 1976. The mosaics were created between 
2001 and 2003 with concept, design and project oversight / management by 
Berberich Design. The illustrative artist was Mark Riedy. These mosaic 
panels are made of opaque glass tiles and were produced in Ravenna, Italy 
by SICIS. The Panoramas. Panoramas of downtown Cincinnati, Mt. Adams, the 
Ohio River and Northern Kentucky are visible from most of the park. The 
Scoreboard. At 217 feet, 9 inches (66.4 m) wide, the scoreboard from Daktronics 
is the sixth largest in Major League Baseball, and the 15th largest in 
the United States out of all LED screens. The Reds paid $4 million to install 
a new, LED scoreboard and high definition video screen in time for the 
2009 season. The scoreboard did not add any size from the previous, but 
added HD quality. The scoreboard clock was originally a replica of the 
Longines clock at Crosley Field,[18] but has since been modified.[19] The 
Toyota Tundra Home Run Deck. If a Reds player hits the "Hit Me" sign located 
between the Power Stacks located in right field, a randomly selected fan 
will win the red Toyota Tundra pickup truck located on top of an elevator 
shaft approximately 500 feet (150 m) from home plate beyond the center 
field fence, which is valued at approximately US$31,000. Crosley Terrace. 
As a nod to Crosley Field, the Reds' home from 1912–1970, a monument was 
created in front of the main entrance to highlight the park's famous left-field 
terrace. Bronze statues of Crosley-era stars Joe Nuxhall, Ernie Lombardi, 
Ted Kluszewski, and Frank Robinson (created by sculptor Tom Tsuchiya) are 
depicted playing in an imaginary ballgame. The grass area of the terrace 
has the same slope as the outfield terrace at Crosley Field.[14][18] 4192 
Mural. A three-piece mural on the back of the scoreboard in left field 
depicts the bat Pete Rose used for his record-breaking 4,192nd hit and 
the ball he hit in 1985. This was replaced with new banners in 2015 as 
part of the All-Star Game upgrades. Cincinnati Reds Hall of Fame and Museum. 
Located on the west side of Great American Ball Park on Main Street, the 
Hall of Fame and Museum celebrate the Reds' past through galleries and 
extensive use of multimedia. The Hall of Fame has been in existence since 
1958, but did not previously have a building. Riverboat Deck. A private 
party area located above the batter's eye. Center Field. The dimension 
of 404 feet (123 m) in center field is a tribute to the same center field 
dimension in the Reds' previous home, Riverfront Stadium. Riverfront Club. 
A glass encased restaurant on the third level of the stadium that serves 
upscale food and has views of the field and the river. Rose Garden. Adjacent 
to both the stadium and the Reds Hall of Fame is a rose garden that symbolizes 
Pete Rose's record-breaking 4,192nd hit. It was strategically placed here 
because the ball landed around this area in Riverfront Stadium. The garden 
is visible from a stairwell in the hall of fame displaying the amount of 
balls that Rose hit. Nursing Suite. For the 2015 season, Great American 
Ball Park became the first MLB ballpark to feature a suite designed exclusively 
as a place for mothers to feed and care for their babies.[20] Reds COO 
Phil Castellini, a father of 5, says he felt compelled to do his best to 
provide a worthwhile solution after stadium officials told him an increasing 
number of women were asking where they could nurse their children at the 
ballpark.[21] The suite has 5 glider chairs, diaper-changing stations, 
a restroom, a kitchenette, refrigerator, lockers, and televisions showing 
the game. It's located on the Suite Level near the Champions Club elevators.[22] 
After the 2008 season, all of the scoreboards in the park were replaced 
by new high-definition video displays. The Reds have a ten-year contract 
with the Daktronics company of Brookings, South Dakota, and also have contracted 
with Sony for the high-definition video cameras and production equipment, 
which will be operated from a renovated control room. A team of 25 people 
will be responsible for the content of the displays. The previous displays 
were installed by the Trans-Lux company when Great American Ball Park was 
built. However, Trans-Lux went bankrupt, and the team could not find replacement 
parts. "We were just limping through, hoping the old scoreboard would make 
it to the end of the 2008 season", said Reds spokesman Michael Anderson.[23] 
Jennifer Berger, Reds senior director of entertainment, events and production 
said that the Cincinnati Reds will assume the responsibility of the cost 
of maintaining the displays; the fans will not have to bear the brunt of 
paying for them. The team expects to save money in the long term due to 
the displays' increased energy efficiency. Bold indicates the winner of 
