Houston–The Woodlands–Sugar Land is a nine-county metropolitan area defined 
by the Office of Management and Budget. It is located along the Gulf Coast 
region in the U.S. state of Texas. The metropolitan area is colloquially 
referred to as "Greater Houston" and is situated in Southeast Texas. Houston–The 
Woodlands–Sugar Land is the fifth-largest metropolitan area in the United States 
and the second-largest in Texas (after Dallas–Fort Worth) with a population 
of 6,490,180, as of U.S. Census Bureau's July 1, 2010 estimates.[2][3][4][5][6] 
The population of the metropolitan area is centered in the city of Houston—the 
largest economic and cultural center of the American South, with a population 
of 2.1 million.[7] Houston is among the fastest-growing metropolitan areas 
in the United States. The Houston-The Woodlands-Sugar Land metro area was 
the fastest growing metro area numerically during the 2013-2014 census 
year, with 156,371 people added[8] The area grew 25.2% between the 1990 
and 2000 censuses—adding more than 950,000 people—while the nation's population 
increased 13.2% over the same period. From 2000 to 2007, the area grew 
by 912,994 people.[9] From 2000 to 2030, the metropolitan area is projected 
by Woods & Poole Economics to rank fifth in the nation in population growth—adding 
2.66 million people.[10] In 2009, Milken Institute/Greenstreet Real Estate 
Partners ranked the then-named Houston–Sugar Land–Baytown MSA as the fifth-best 
performing metropolitan area; the Houston area had moved up 11 spaces from 
the previous year's ranking.[11] It is a part of the Texas Triangle megapolitan 
area. According to the United States Census Bureau, the Houston–The Woodlands–Sugar 
Land metropolitan statistical area has a total area of 10,062 square miles 
(26,060 km²), 8,929 sq mi (23,130 km2) is land area, while 1,133 sq mi 
(2,930 km2) is water area, slightly smaller than Massachusetts and slightly 
larger than New Jersey.[12] The OMB lumps the Houston-The Woodlands-Sugarland 
MSA with four micropolitan statistical areas to form the Houston-The Woodlands, 
TX Combined Statistical Area.: Bay City, Brenham, El Campo, and Huntsville. 
The metropolitan area is located in the Gulf Coastal Plains biome, and 
its vegetation is classified as temperate grassland. Much of the metro 
area was built on forested land, marshes, swamp, or prairie—all of which 
can still be seen in surrounding areas. The Houston area land mass is very 
diverse. There is forested land and hills to the north, beaches and grasslands 
to the south, swamps and marshlands to the east, rice fields and praires 
to the west. Much of the Houston metropolitan area is very flat, making 
flooding a recurring problem for some areas.[citation needed] Underpinning 
Houston's land surface are unconsolidated clays, clay shales, and poorly 
cemented sands up to several miles deep. The region's geology developed 
from stream deposits formed from the erosion of the Rocky Mountains. These 
sediments consist of a series of sands and clays deposited on decaying 
organic matter that, over time, transformed into oil and natural gas. Beneath 
these tiers is a water-deposited layer of halite, a rock salt. The porous 
layers were compressed over time and forced upward. As it pushed upward, 
the salt dragged surrounding sediments into dome shapes, often trapping 
oil and gas that seeped from the surrounding porous sands. This thick, 
rich soil also provides a good environment for rice farming in suburban 
outskirts into which the city continues to grow near Katy. Evidence of 
past rice farming is even still evident in developed areas as an abundance 
of rich, dark, loamy top soil exists. The Houston region is generally earthquake-free. 
While the city of Houston contains over 150 active surface faults (some 
have estimated as many as 300 active faults)[13] with an aggregate length 
of up to 310 miles (500 km),[14][15] the clay below the surface precludes 
the buildup of friction that produces ground-shaking in earthquakes. These 
faults generally move at a smooth rate in what is termed "fault creep". 
As defined by the Office of Management and Budget, the metropolitan area 
of Houston–The Woodlands–Sugar Land encompasses nine counties in Texas. 
They are listed below with population figures as of the 2010 U.S. Census.[16][17] 
Five "principal" communities are designated within Houston–The Woodlands–Sugar 
Land metropolitan area. The Woodlands is a CDP; the rest are cities: As 
of 2011 Greater Houston has four of Texas' ten wealthiest communities, 
which include the wealthiest community, Hunters Creek Village, the fourth-wealthiest 
community, Bunker Hill Village, the fifth-wealthiest community, West University 
Place, and the sixth-wealthiest community, Piney Point Village.[18] Among 
the ten most populous metropolitan areas in the U.S., Houston ranked first 
in employment growth rate and second in nominal employment growth.[19] 
In 2006, the Houston metropolitan area ranked first in Texas and third 
in the U.S. within the category of "Best Places for Business and Careers" 
by Forbes.[20] The Houston–The Woodlands-Sugar Land MSA's gross metropolitan 
product (GMP) in 2005 was $308.7 billion, up 5.4% from 2004 in constant 
dollars—slightly larger than Austria's gross domestic product. By 2012, 
the GMP has risen to $449 billion, the fourth-largest of any metropolitan 
area in the United States.[4] Only 26 nations other than the United States 
have a GDP exceeding Houston's GAP.[21] Mining, which in Houston is almost 
entirely oil and gas exploration and production, accounts for 11% of Houston's 
GAP—down from 21% as recently as 1985. The reduced role of oil and gas 
in Houston's GAP reflects the rapid growth of other sectors—such as engineering 
services, health services, and manufacturing.[10] The area's economic activity 
is centered in Houston, the county seat of Harris County. Houston is second 
to New York City in Fortune 500 headquarters. The city has attempted to 
build a banking industry, but the companies originally started in Houston 
have since merged with other companies nationwide. Banking, however, is 
still vital to the region.[citation needed] Galveston Bay and the Buffalo 
Bayou together form one of the most important shipping hubs in the world. 
The Port of Houston, the Port of Texas City, and the Port of Galveston 
are all major seaports located in this Greater Houston area.[22] The area 
is also one of the leading centers of the energy industry, particularly 
petroleum processing, and many companies have large operations in this 
region.[23] The metropolitan area also comprises the largest petrochemical 
manufacturing area in the world, including for synthetic rubber, insecticides, 
and fertilizers.[24] The area is also the world's leading center for building 
oilfield equipment. The region is also a major center of biomedical research, 
aeronautics, and high technology.[25] Much of the metro area's success 
as a petrochemical complex is enabled by its busy man-made ship channel, 
the Houston Ship Channel.[26] Because of these economic trades, many residents 
have moved to the Houston area from other U.S. states, as well as hundreds 
of countries worldwide. Unlike most places, where high fuel prices are 
seen as harmful to the economy, they are generally seen as beneficial for 
Houston, as many are employed in the energy industry. Baytown, Pasadena/La 
Porte, and Texas City have some of the area's largest petroleum/petrochemical 
plants, though major operations can be found in Houston, Anahuac, Clute, 
and other communities. Galveston has the largest cruise ship terminal in 
Texas (and the 12th-largest in the world). The island, as well the Clear 
Lake Area, are major recreation and tourism areas in the region.[27] Houston 
is home to the Texas Medical Center—the largest medical center in the world.[28] 
Galveston is home to one of only two national biocontainment laboratories 
in the United States.[29] The University of Houston System's annual impact 
on the Houston-area's economy equates to that of a major corporation: $1.1 billion 
in new funds attracted annually to the Houston area, $3.13 billion in total 
economic benefit, and 24,000 local jobs generated.[30][31] This is in addition 
to the 12,500 new graduates the UH System produces every year who enter 
the workforce in Houston and throughout Texas. These degree-holders tend 
to stay in Houston; after five years, 80.5% of graduates are still living 
and working in the region.[31] Sugar Land is home to the second-largest 
economic activities and third-largest city in the metropolitan area. Sugar 
Land has the most important economic center in Fort Bend County. The city 
holds the Imperial Sugar (its namesake), Nalco Champion, and Western Airways 
headquarters. Engineering firms and other related industries have managed 
to take the place as an economic engine.[citation needed] Greater Houston 
is home to five NCAA Division I programs, with four located within Houston 
proper. The University of Houston and Rice University play in Division 
I (FBS).[32] The University of Houston plays in the American Athletic Conference, 
while Rice belongs to Conference USA. Both schools were once part of the 
Southwest Conference. Texas Southern University, which is a member of the 
Southwestern Athletic Conference, plays in Division I (FCS).[32] Houston 
Baptist University currently plays in Division I (FCS), mainly in the Southland 
Conference.[33] Rice and Houston Baptist are widely noted for their student-athlete 
graduation rates, which number at 91% for Rice (tied for highest in the 
nation according to a 2002 Sports Illustrated issue on best college sports 
programs) and 80% for HBU. Houston is or has been home to various nationally 
known sporting events. The most notable is the Houston Livestock Show and 
Rodeo, which is the world's largest livestock exhibition and rodeo event. 
Other events of importance on greater Houston include the Shell Houston 
Open (a PGA Tour event), the U.S. Men's Clay Court Championships (ATP tour), 
the Houston Marathon, and the Texas Bowl college football bowl game. Houston 
has also played host to two Super Bowls (VIII) and (XXXVIII), the 1968, 
1986, and 2004 MLB All-Star Games, the 2005 World Series, and the 1989, 
2006, 2013 NBA All-Star Games. Houston has also played host to various 
high school and college sporting events, including the Big 12 Championship 
Game and hosted the 2011 NCAA Men's Final Four, 2010 NCAA Men's Regional 
Finals, and 2010 MLS All-Star Game. Houston was also considered a candidate 
for the 2012 and 2016 Olympic Games. Houston is slated to host Super Bowl 
LI in 2017.[34] Houston's concentration of consular offices ranks third 
in the nation and first in the South, with 90 countries represented.[35] 
Houston has a sizable Hispanic community. CNN/Money and Money magazine 
have recognized cities in the Greater Houston area the past three years 
as part of its 100 Best Places to Live in the United States. In 2005, Sugar 
Land, southwest of Houston in northeast Fort Bend County, was ranked 46th 
in the nation, and one of only three Texas cities among the Top 100. In 
2006, the magazine recognized Sugar Land again, this time as the third-best 
city on its list.[36] Also making the 2006 list were League City (65th) 
in northern Galveston County and The Woodlands (73rd) in southern Montgomery 
County. In 2007, another Houston suburb, Friendswood, made the list ranked 
51st in the nation. The 2006 list only includes cities with at least 50,000 
residents, and the 2007 list contains only cities with less than 50,000 
residents. Greater Houston is widely noted for its ethnic diversity and 
strong international community. In its 2010 publication "Urban Elite",[37] 
A.T. Kearney added the city to their list of the 65 most important world 
cities and ranks Houston 35th, as "...a magnet for a diverse population 
and business services...". The Globalization and World Cities Study Group 
and Network ranks Houston as a Beta- World City, "an important world city 
instrumental to linking their region or state to the world economy."[38] 
Houston–The Woodlands–Sugar Land metropolitan area is served by a public 
television station and one public radio station. KUHT (HoustonPBS) is a 
PBS member station and is the first public television station in the United States. 
Houston Public Radio is listener-funded radio and comprises one NPR member 
station, KUHF (KUHF News). The University of Houston System owns and holds 
broadcasting licenses to KUHT and KUHF. The stations broadcast from the 
Melcher Center for Public Broadcasting, located on the campus of the University 
of Houston. The Houston area is served by the Houston Chronicle, its only 
major daily newspaper with wide distribution. The Hearst Corporation, which 
owns and operates the Houston Chronicle, bought the assets of the Houston 
Post—its long-time rival and main competition—when Houston Post ceased 
operations in 1995. The Houston Post was owned by the family of former 
Lieutenant Governor Bill Hobby of Houston. The only other major publication 
to serve the city is the Houston Press—a free alternative weekly with a 
weekly readership of more than 300,000.[39] The Galveston County Daily 
News, founded in 1842, is that city's primary newspaper and the oldest 
continuously printed newspaper in Texas.[40] It currently serves as the 
newspaper of record for Galveston, as well as Galveston County. Radio station 
KGBC, on air since 1947, has also served as a local media outlet.[41] Five 
separate and distinct state universities are located within Houston–The 
Woodlands–Sugar Land metropolitan area. The University of Houston is a 
nationally recognized Tier One research university, and is the flagship 
institution of the University of Houston System.[42][43][44] The third-largest 
university in Texas, the University of Houston has nearly 40,000 students 
on its 667-acre campus in southeast Houston.[45] The University of Houston–Clear Lake 
and the University of Houston–Downtown are stand-aloneuniversities; they 
are not branch campuses of the University of Houston. The metropolitan 
area is home to two historically black colleges and universities: Texas 
Southern University and Prairie View A&M University. The University of 
Texas Medical Branch and Texas A&M University at Galveston, a branch campus 
of Texas A&M University, are located in Galveston. Several private institutions 
of higher learning—ranging from liberal arts colleges to a nationally recognized 
research university—are located within the metropolitan area. The University 
of St. Thomas is a Catholic institution known for small classes (an average 
of 14 students per class). Houston Baptist University, located in the Sharpstown 
area, was founded in 1960. Rice University is one of the leading teaching 
and research universities of the United States and ranked the nation's 
17th-best overall university by U.S. News & World Report.[46] Three community 
college districts exist with campuses in and around Houston. The Houston 
Community College System serves most of Houston. The northwestern through 
northeastern parts of the metropolitan area are served by various campuses 
of the Lone Star College System, while the southeastern portion of the 
city and some surrounding areas are served by San Jacinto College. Eastern 
portions of the area and small sections of the city are served by Lee College. 
Portions of Fort Bend County are served by Wharton County Junior College. 
Portions of Galveston County are served by College of the Mainland and 
Galveston College. Portions of Brazoria County are served by Alvin Community 
College and Brazosport College. Blinn College serves portions of Austin 
County. The Houston Community College and Lone Star College systems are 
within the 10 largest institutions of higher learning in the United States. 
Houston’s freeway system includes 575.5 miles (926.2 km) of freeways and 
expressways in the 10-county metro area.[10] The State of Texas plans to 
spend $65 billion on Houston area highways by 2025. Houston freeways are 
heavily traveled and often under construction to meet the demands of continuing 
growth. The Greater Houston area has a hub-and-spoke freeway structure 
with multiple loops. The innermost is Interstate 610, forming a roughly 
42-mile (70 km)-diameter loop around downtown. The nearly square Loop 610 
is quartered into "North Loop", "South Loop", "West Loop", and "East Loop". 
The roads of Beltway 8 and their freeway core, the Sam Houston Tollway, 
are the next loop, at a diameter around 83 miles (134 km). A proposed highway 
project, State Highway 99 (the Grand Parkway), would form a third loop 
outside of Houston. Currently, a completed portion of State Highway 99 
runs from U.S. Highway 290, northwest of Houston, to U.S. Highway 59 in 
Sugar Land, southwest of Houston, and was completed in 2013. Another segment 
of State Highway 99 from Interstate 10 south to Farm-to-Market Road 1405 
in Chambers County was completed in 2008. The next portion to be constructed 
is from the current terminus at U.S. Highway 290 to U.S. Highway 59 in 
Montgomery County. Freeways also include the Westpark Tollway, which runs 
from U.S. Hwy 59 to Texas Hwy 99 and the Fort Bend Parkway, which runs 
from U.S. Hwy 90-A to Texas Hwy 6 in Missouri City. A new interstate, Interstate 
69, will start at the Mexico–US border, go through the Greater Houston 
area, and continue on to Michigan at the Canada–US border. About 35 miles 
of Interstate 69 have been completed in the Greater Houston area. The Metropolitan 
Transit Authority of Harris County, Texas, or METRO, provides public transportation 
in the form of buses, trolleys, and lift vans. METRO began running light 
rail service (METRORail) on January 1, 2004. Currently, the track is rather 
short — about 12.8 miles (20.6 km) from Northline Transit Center Station 
through downtown Houston to the Texas Medical Center and Reliant Park. 
Still, the Red Line is traveled by about 45,000 people daily, giving it 
the second-highest ridership per track mile in the nation. METRO's various 
forms of public transportation still do not connect many of the suburbs 
to the greater city, causing Houstonians to rely on the automobile as a 
primary source of transportation. Prior to the opening of METRORail, Houston 
was the largest city in the United States without a rail transit system 
by a very large margin. Following a successful referendum held locally 
in 2004, METRO is currently in the beginning design phases of a 10-year 
expansion plan to add five more sections to connect to the current rail 
system. An 8.3-mile (13.4-km) expansion has been approved to run the service 
from Uptown through Texas Southern University, ending at the University 
of Houston campus. Houston's largest airport (and Texas's second-largest), 
George Bush Intercontinental Airport, is located in north Houston. Continental 
Airlines was headquartered in downtown Houston. The southeast of Houston 
has William P. Hobby Airport, the second-largest commercial passenger airport. 
Houston's third-largest airport is Ellington Field, which houses several 
National Guard and Air National Guard units, as well as a United States 
Coast Guard air station and the Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center's fleet 
of jets that are used to train astronauts. Sugar Land has the Sugar Land 
Regional Airport, which is the fourth-largest airport in the metropolitan 
area. Both Sugar Land Regional and Ellington Field serve as reliever airports 
for the Houston Airport System. Amtrak provides intercity rail service 
to the Houston station.[47] Greyhound Bus Lines operates services from 
three bus stations in the City of Houston: In addition, Greyhound operates 
services from two stops[51] Greyhound also operates services to stops within 
other cities in the Greater Houston area, including: Three Megabus stations 
additionally serve the Houston area: Politically, the Greater Houston area 
has historically been divided between areas of strength of the Republican 
and Democratic parties.[58] The city of Houston has historically voted 
Democratic except for its affluent western and west-central portions, including 
the River Oaks, Westchase, Memorial, and Uptown areas, as well as the Kingwood 
and Clear Lake City master-planned communities on Houston's far northeast 
and southeast sides, respectively. All these areas, populated mostly by 
wealthy WASPS, favor and are almost entirely represented both in Congress 
and in the Texas Legislature by Republicans. Democrats' strongest areas 
are within Loop 610, and in the largely poor and minority northern, eastern, 
and southern portions of Houston. Most of these areas have sizable Hispanic 
populations, though some northern and southern parts of the city have mostly 
notable African American communities. Democrats are also stronger in the 
more liberal Neartown area, which is home to a large artist and LGBT community, 
and Alief, which houses a sizable Asian American population.[citation needed] 
In 2008, almost every county in the region voted for Republican John McCain; 
only Harris County was won by Democratic candidate Barack Obama, by a small 
margin (51%–49%).[59] Galveston has long been a staunch Democratic stronghold, 
with the most active Democratic county establishment in the state.[60] 
Houston's suburbs are also politically divided. Such examples: For a complete 
listing, see list of cities and towns in Houston–The Woodlands–Sugar Land 
