Greater Boston is the metropolitan region of New England encompassing the 
municipality of Boston, the capital of the U.S. state of Massachusetts 
and the most populous city in New England, as well as its surrounding areas. 
The region forms the northern arc of the U.S. northeast megalopolis and 
as such, Greater Boston can be described as either a metropolitan statistical 
area (MSA), or as a broader combined statistical area (CSA). The MSA consists 
of most of the eastern third of Massachusetts, excluding the South Coast 
region and Cape Cod; while the CSA additionally includes the municipalities 
of Manchester (the largest city in the U.S. state of New Hampshire), Providence 
(the capital of the U.S. state of Rhode Island), Worcester, Massachusetts 
(the second largest city in New England), as well as the South Coast region 
and Cape Cod in Massachusetts. Greater Boston's most impactful contributions 
to human civilization involve the region's higher education institutions, 
innovation, and scientific research. Greater Boston constitutes a region 
influential upon American history, academia, and industry.[1] The region 
and the state of Massachusetts are global leaders in biotechnology, engineering, 
higher education, finance, and maritime trade.[2] Over 80% of Massachusetts' 
population lives in the Greater Boston metropolitan region. Greater Boston 
is ranked tenth in population among U.S. metropolitan statistical areas, 
home to 4,732,161 people as of the 2014 U.S. Census estimate, and sixth 
among combined statistical areas, with a population of 8,099,575.[3] The 
area has many people and sites significant to American culture and history, 
particularly American literature,[4] politics, and the American Revolution. 
Plymouth was the site of the first colony in New England, founded in 1620 
by the Pilgrims, passengers of the Mayflower. In 1692, the town of Salem 
and surrounding areas experienced one of America's most infamous cases 
of mass hysteria, the Salem witch trials.[5] In 1777, General Henry Knox 
founded the Springfield Armory, which during the Industrial Revolution 
catalyzed numerous important technological advances, including interchangeable 
parts.[6] In 1786, Shays' Rebellion, a populist revolt led by disaffected 
Revolutionary War veterans, influenced the United States Constitutional 
Convention.[7] In the 18th century, the Protestant First Great Awakening, 
which swept the Atlantic world, originated from the pulpit of Northampton 
preacher Jonathan Edwards.[8] In the late 18th century, Boston became known 
as the "Cradle of Liberty"[9] for the agitation there that led to the American 
Revolution. The Greater Boston region has played a powerful commercial 
and cultural role in the history of the United States. Before the American 
Civil War, the region was a center for the abolitionist, temperance,[10] 
and transcendentalist[11] movements.[12] In 2004, Massachusetts became 
the first U.S. state to legally recognize same-sex marriage as a result 
of the decision of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court in Boston.[13] 
Many prominent American political dynasties have hailed from the Boston 
region, including the Adams and Kennedy families. Harvard University in 
Cambridge is the oldest institution of higher learning in the United States,[14] 
with the largest financial endowment of any university,[15] and whose Law 
School has spawned a contemporaneous majority of United States Supreme 
Court Justices.[16] Both Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology, also in Cambridge, have been ranked among the most highly 
regarded academic institutions in the world.[17] The most restrictive definition 
of the Greater Boston area is the region administered by the Metropolitan 
Area Planning Council (MAPC).[18] The MAPC is a regional planning organization 
created by the Massachusetts legislature to oversee transportation infrastructure 
and economic development concerns in the Boston area. The MAPC includes 
101 cities and towns that are grouped into eight subregions. These include 
most of the area within the region's outer circumferential highway, I-495. 
The population of the MAPC district is 5,414,140 (as of 2010), which is 
68% of the total population of Massachusetts.,[19] in an area of 1,422 
square miles (3,680 km2),[18] of which 39% is forested and an additional 
11% is water, wetland, or other open space.[20] The eight subregions and 
their principal towns are: Inner Core (Boston), Minuteman (Route 2 corridor), 
MetroWest (Framingham), North Shore (Lynn), North Suburban (Woburn), South 
Shore (Route 3 corridor), SouthWest (Franklin), and Three Rivers (Norwood). 
Notably excluded from the MAPC and its partner planning body, the Boston 
Region Metropolitan Planning Organization, are the Merrimack Valley cities 
of Lowell, Lawrence, and Haverhill, much of Plymouth County, and all of 
Bristol County; these areas have their own regional planning bodies. Northern 
Bristol County is part of the Greater Boston CSA, as part of the Providence 
MSA. The urbanized area surrounding Boston serves as the core of a definition 
used by the U.S. Census Bureau known as the New England city and town area 
(NECTA). The set of towns containing the core urbanized area plus surrounding 
towns with strong social and economic ties to the core area is defined 
as the Boston–Cambridge–Nashua, MA–NH Metropolitan NECTA.[21] The Boston 
NECTA is further subdivided into several NECTA divisions, which are listed 
below. The Boston, Framingham, and Peabody NECTA divisions together correspond 
roughly to the MAPC area. The total population of the Boston NECTA was 
4,540,941 (as of 2000). An alternative definition defined by the United 
States Office of Management and Budget, using counties as building blocks 
instead of towns, is the Boston–Cambridge–Newton, MA–NH Metropolitan Statistical 
Area, which is further subdivided into four metropolitan divisions. The 
metropolitan statistical area had a total population of approximately 4,732,161 
as of 2014 and is the tenth-largest in the United States. The components 
of the metropolitan area with their estimated 2012 populations are listed 
below. A wider functional metropolitan area based on commuting patterns 
is also defined by the Office of Management and Budget as the Boston–Worcester–Providence 
combined statistical area. This area consists of the metropolitan areas 
of Manchester, Worcester, Providence, as well as Cape Cod, in addition 
to greater Boston. The total population as of 2014 for the extended region 
was estimated at 8,099,575. The following areas, along with the above MSA, 
are included in the combined statistical area, with their estimated 2012 
populations: The Census Bureau defines the following as principal cities 
in the Boston NECTA[21] using criteria developed for what the Office of 
Management and Budget calls a Core Based Statistical Area:[22] Cities and 
towns in the Boston CSA with at least 50,000 residents: The most densely 
populated census tracts in the Boston CSA (2010):[24] The 40 most diverse 
Census tracts in the Boston CSA:[24] The 40 census tracts in the Boston 
CSA with the highest percentage of residents who identify as Hispanic or 
Latino:[24] Census tracts in the Boston CSA with the highest percentage 
of residents who identify as Black American:[24] Census tracts in the Boston 
CSA with the highest percentage of residents who identify as Asian American:[24] 
Census tracts in the Boston CSA with the highest percentage of residents 
who identify as Irish American:[26] Census tracts in the Boston CSA with 
the highest percentage of residents who identify as Italian American:[27] 
Census tracts in the Boston CSA with the highest percentage of residents 
who identify as Portuguese American:[28] Census tracts in the Boston CSA 
with French or French Canadian listed as first ancestry:[29] Greater Boston 
has a sizable Jewish community, estimated at between 210,000 people,[30][31] 
and 261,000[32] or 5–6% of the Greater Boston metro population, compared 
with about 2% for the nation as a whole. Contrary to national trends, the 
number of Jews in Greater Boston has been growing, fueled by the fact that 
60% of children in Jewish mixed-faith families are raised Jewish, compared 
with roughly one in three nationally.[30] The City of Boston also has one 
of the largest LGBT populations per capita. It ranks fifth of all major 
cities in the country (behind San Francisco, and slightly behind Seattle, 
Atlanta, and Minneapolis respectively), with 12.3% of the city identifying 
as gay, lesbian, or bisexual.[33] A long established center of higher education, 
the area includes many community colleges, two-year schools, and internationally 
prominent undergraduate and graduate institutions. The graduate schools 
include highly regarded schools of law, medicine, business, technology, 
international relations, public health, education, and religion. Changes 
in house prices for the Greater Boston area are publicly tracked on a regular 
basis using the Case–Shiller index; the statistic is published by Standard 
& Poor's and is also a component of S&P's 10-city composite index of the 
value of the residential real estate market. References:[34][35][36][37] 
(regional headquarters) (headquarters) Annual sporting events include: 
The first railway line in the United States was in Quincy. See Neponset 
River. The following Regional Transit Authorities have bus service that 
