Green-Wood Cemetery was founded in 1838 as a rural cemetery in Kings County, 
New York.[8] Green-Wood Cemetery is one of the first rural cemeteries in 
the nation. It was founded because notable New Yorkers thought it was necessary 
to build a cemetery in Brooklyn because Manhattan had overcrowded churchyards. 
Located in Greenwood Heights, Brooklyn, the cemetery lies several blocks 
southwest of Prospect Park, between Park Slope, Windsor Terrace, Borough 
Park, Kensington, and Sunset Park. Paul Goldberger in The New York Times, 
wrote that it was said "it is the ambition of the New Yorker to live upon 
the Fifth Avenue, to take his airings in the Park, and to sleep with his 
fathers in Green-Wood".[9] The gates of the cemetery were designated a 
New York City landmark in 1966,[3] and the Weir Greenhouse, used as a visitor's 
center, in 1982. The cemetery was listed on the National Register of Historic 
Places in 1997 and was granted National Historic Landmark status in 2006 
by the U.S. Department of the Interior.[2] The Fort Hamilton Parkway Gate 
and the cemetery's chapel were designated as landmarks by New York City 
in 2016.[5] The popularity of Green-Wood Cemetery inspired a competition 
to design a "Central Park" for NYC. The winners were Calvert Vaux and Frederick 
Law Olmsted. It essentially inspired the creation of Central Park and Prospect 
Park. The Pierrepont papers deposited at the Brooklyn Historical Society 
contain material about the organizing of Green-Wood Cemetery. Inspired 
by Pére Lachaise Cemetery in Paris and Mount Auburn Cemetery in Cambridge, 
Massachusetts,[11] where a cemetery in a naturalistic park-like landscape 
in the English manner was first established, Green-Wood was able to take 
advantage of the varied topography provided by glacial moraines. Battle 
Hill, the highest point in Brooklyn, is on cemetery grounds, rising approximately 
200 feet above sea level. It was the site of an important action during 
the Battle of Brooklyn on August 27, 1776. As such, a Revolutionary War 
monument by Frederick Ruckstull, Altar to Liberty: Minerva, was erected 
there in 1920. From this height, the bronze Minerva statue gazes towards 
the Statue of Liberty across New York Harbor.[12] The cemetery was the 
idea of Henry Evelyn Pierrepont,[13] a Brooklyn social leader. It was a 
popular tourist attraction in the 1850s and by early 1860s, it became the 
popular tourist place 2nd to Niagara Falls. It was the place most famous 
New Yorkers who died during the second half of the nineteenth century were 
buried. Green-Wood Cemetery is still operating with approximately 600,000 
graves and 7000 trees spread out over 478 acres (1.9 km2). The rolling 
hills and dales, several ponds and an on-site chapel provide an environment 
that still draws visitors. There are several famous monuments located there, 
including a statue of DeWitt Clinton, and a memorial erected by James Brown, 
president of Brown Brothers bank and the Collins Line, to the six members 
of his family lost in the SS Arctic disaster of 1854. This incorporates 
a sculpture of the ship, half-submerged by the waves. As well as a Civil 
War Memorial, during the Civil War, Green-Wood Cemetery created the "Soldiers' 
Lot" for free veterans' burials. The gates were designed by Richard Upjohn 
in Gothic Revival style. The main entrance to the cemetery was built in 
1861-65 of Belleville, New Jersey brownstone. The sculptured groups on 
Nova Scotia limestone panels depicting biblical scenes of death and resurrection 
from the New Testament including Lazarus, The Widow's Son, and Jesus' Resurrection 
over the gateways are the work of sculptor John M. Moffitt.[11] A Designated 
Landmarks of New York plaque was erected on it in 1958 by the New York 
Community Trust, and it was designated an official New York City landmark 
in 1966.[1] Several wooden shelters were also built, including one in a 
Gothic Revival style, one resembling an Italian villa, and another resembling 
a Swiss chalet.[14] A descendent colony of monk parakeets that are believed 
to have escaped their containers while in transit now nests in the spires 
of the gate, as well as other areas in Brooklyn.[15][16] On December 5, 
1876, the Brooklyn Theater Fire claimed the lives of at least 278 individuals, 
with some accounts reporting over 300 dead. Out of that total, 103 unidentified 
victims were interred in a common grave at Green-Wood Cemetery. An obelisk 
near the main entrance at Fifth Avenue and 25th Street marks the burial 
site. More than two dozen identified victims were interred individually 
in separate sections at the Cemetery of the Evergreens in Brooklyn. Also 
buried at the cemetery are 6 British Commonwealth service personnel whose 
graves are registered by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission, 3 from 
World War I and 3 from World War II, among the latter being Leading Aircraftsman 
Remsen Taylor Williams (died 1941 aged 26), Royal Canadian Air Force, who 
is buried in the Steinway Vault.[17] Green-Wood has remained non-sectarian, 
but was generally considered a Christian burial place for white Anglo-Saxon 
Protestants of good repute. One early regulation was that no one executed 
for a crime, or even dying in jail, could be buried there. Although he 
died in the Ludlow Street Jail, the family of the infamous "Boss" Tweed 
managed to circumvent this rule.[18] The cemetery's chapel was completed 
in 1911. It was designed by the architectural firm of Warren and Wetmore, 
who also designed Grand Central Terminal, the Commodore Hotel, the Yale 
Club and many other buildings. The architecture of the chapel is a reduced 
version of Christopher Wren's Thomas Tower at Christ Church College in 
Oxford, and was restored in 2001.[10] In 1999, The Green-Wood Historic 
Fund, a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit institution, was created to continue preservation, 
beautification, educational programs and community outreach as the current 
"working cemetery" evolves into a Brooklyn cultural institution. The vandalism 
on August 21, 2012 was one of the worst cases encountered in Green-Wood. 
Individual(s) was said to have jumped the fence and damage about 50 monuments 
and memorials. In 2012, Hurricane Sandy toppled or damaged at least 292 
of the mature trees, 210 gravestones, and 2 mausoleums in the cemetery. 
The damage was estimated at $500,000.[19] In December 2012 the controversial 
and much traveled statue ‘’The Triumph of Civic Virtue’' by Frederick MacMonnies 
was moved to Green-Wood.[20] Another sculpture, the Angel of Music made 
by Giancarlo Biagi and Jill Burkee, was revealed and memorialized Louis 
Moreau Gottschalk, America’s first matinee idol and international music 
superstar. In August 2013, in partnership with the Connecticut Society 
of the Cincinnati, signage in the Battle Hill area of the cemetery was 
updated to reflect new research on Battle Hill's importance in the Battle 
of Brooklyn.[21] The Historic Fund's Civil War Project, an effort to identify 
and remember Civil War veterans buried at Green-Wood, was born of the enthusiasm 
felt at the rededication ceremony of Civil War Soldiers' Monument.[1] These 
early graves have either sunk into the soil, been damaged, or have their 
markers erased. European beech tree and mausoleums Largest tulip tree in 
the cemetery Large ginkgo tree Camperdown elm tree Two old sassafras trees 
Koi pond in the Tranquility Garden section of the Cemetery Notes Further 
