Maroon, White[1] The Greensburg Athletic Association was an early organized 
football team, based in Greensburg, Pennsylvania, that played in the unofficial 
Western Pennsylvania Professional Football Circuit from 1890 until 1900. 
At times referred to as the Greensburg Athletic Club, the team began as 
an amateur football club in 1890 and was composed primarily of locals before 
several professional players were added for the 1895 season. In 1894 it 
was discovered that the team had secretly paid formerly Indiana Normal 
(now Indiana University of Pennsylvania) player, Lawson Fiscus, to play 
football and retained his services on salary. The team was the chief rival 
of another early professional football team, the Latrobe Athletic Association. 
Aside from Fiscus, the Greensburg Athletic Association included several 
of the era's top players, such as: Charlie Atherton, George Barclay, Ross 
Fiscus, Jack Gass, Arthur McFarland, Charles Rinehart, Isaac Seneca and 
Adam Martin Wyant. Several of these players revolutionized the game during 
their playing careers. Charlie Atherton is credited with inventing the 
place kick,[1] and George Barclay invented the first-ever football helmet.[2][3] 
Meanwhile, Isaac Seneca became the first Native-American to earn All-American 
honors and Adam Martin Wyant was the first professional football player 
to become a United States Congressman.[1] The team's home games were played 
at Athletic Park (which was later renamed Offutt Field). The field is still 
in use as football field by Greensburg Salem High School and, up until 
1993, Greensburg Central Catholic High School.[4] The first four years 
of Greensburg Athletic Association football that began with the 1890 season, 
through 1893, were not particularly successful. The drawbacks included 
a lack of local opponents, rivalries which did not develop until later 
as well as a lack of local experienced players. It is not even known if 
the club recorded a win prior to 1894. The Greensburg Athletic Association 
kicked off its inaugural season in 1890. Their first game resulted in 6–6 
tie against Indiana Normal (IUP), while losing their first-ever home game 
to the Kiskiminetas Springs School (Kiski Prep), 34–4. A group of college 
students, which of whom returned home to Greensburg for Thanksgiving vacation, 
played for the team for a game against an unknown Pittsburgh club to close 
out the season. However the team, filled with supplement players, lost 
to the Pittsburgh club by a narrow margin. During the 1891 season, the 
club suffered from at least two known losses against two of the two top 
football athletic clubs in Pittsburgh: the Pittsburgh Athletic Club and 
the Allegheny Athletic Association. Meanwhile, the result of an earlier 
game against Indiana Normal remains unknown. Meanwhile, the surviving records 
of the club's 1892 campaign show only two games being played, resulting 
in two losses against Western University of Pennsylvania (today the University 
of Pittsburgh), 6-2, and the Pittsburgh Athletic Club, 28-0. In 1893, Greensburg 
placed a higher emphasis on its football program. The results of three 
of the four games from that season remain unknown. The team's fourth game, 
against the Pittsburgh Athletic Club, resulted in 10–0 loss.[1] In 1894 
Greensburg hired its first professional player, Lawson Fiscus, for $20 
a game plus expenses. While Fiscus did play for Greensburg as an amateur 
in 1893, he was actively recruited by several other teams as professionalism 
in football began to take hold. Fiscus played informal football at Indiana 
Normal, even before it even fielded a school team. He has also played at 
halfback for the Allegheny Athletic Association as well as for Princeton 
University.[5] During the 1894 season, Greensburg jumped out to a 5-0 record, 
before losing 10-0 against the Altoona Athletic Club. A week later, a game 
against the Jeannette Athletic Club, ended at halftime due to disagreement 
between the two teams. The disagreement regarded the tough play of Greensburg's 
Lawson Fiscus, who was accused of kicking or stepping on the face of one 
of the Jeannette players, during the game. A rematch between Greensburg 
and Altoona was held on Thanksgiving Day. This time though, Greensburg 
defeated Altoona, 6-4 in front of about 2,500 fans. During this era, please 
note that a touchdown accounted for four points and the “goal after” for 
two. Greensburg finished a highly successful season with a record of 6-1-1 
and led to an increased interest in football throughout Western Pennsylvania. 
Fans now turned out in large numbers for games, and even accompanied the 
team by train to road games. And while Fiscus was the only paid player 
on the 1894 team, several other pros joined him in 1895.[6] Greensburg's 
1895 season opened and closed with games against the Latrobe Athletic Association, 
from nearby Latrobe, which served as Greensburg's chief rival. The Latrobe 
team had an impressive squad led by John Brallier who became the first 
football player to admit to being a paid professional. Greensburg won the 
opening game 25–0 to start the season 2–0. However problems arose when 
Lawson, and two former Penn State University players, Charlie Atherton 
(who was also the team's coach), and Ed Robison, turned down Greensburg's 
offer of $125 a month each to play for the upstart Duquesne Country and 
Athletic Club, located in Pittsburgh. However the community raised some 
extra money to give the players a better offer than Duquesne. As a result, 
all three players stayed with Greensburg. After a 6–0 start the team tied 
the Pittsburgh Athletic Club 0–0 at Exposition Park.[1] The following week, 
Greensburg was defeated by the Duquesne Country and Athletic Club in Pittsburgh, 
14-0, in what was seen as a controversial game. A local resident with ties 
to Duquesne was substituted for the scheduled official. This resulted in 
what the Greensburg Daily Tribune called bad officiating and “thievery”. 
A touchdown was said to have been scored by Duquesne after time was called, 
along with rough play. However Greensburg soon recovered and finished their 
season with a 9-1-1 record. However the score and the outcome of Greensburg's 
final game against Latrobe is disputed by historians. While Greensburg 
and Latrobe records both indicate a 4-0 Greensburg win, one Pittsburgh 
newspaper reported the game ended in 4-0 Latrobe victory.[6] For 1896, 
Alfred Sigman of Lafayette College became the team's fullback and coach, 
and two more Fiscus brothers, Ross and Newill, were added to the team. 
Greensburg began their season 5–0, which included wins over the Pittsburgh 
Athletic Club and Latrobe. The team was acclaimed by Pittsburgh papers 
at mid-season as being the best in Pennsylvania. During a game against 
a squad from Beaver Falls, Greensburg's Tom Donohoe ran 44 yards with an 
intercepted pass. [Note: Pass was probably a lateral, since the forward 
pass was not legal until 1906].[4] On October 17, Greensburg defeated the 
Pittsburgh Athletic Club for the very first time, posting a 14-0 win at 
home. All three of the game's touchdowns were scored by Lawson Fiscus. 
On October 31, Greensburg defeated Latrobe, 10-4. In the stands there was 
considerable betting over whether Latrobe would score or not. Late in game 
Latrobe's Doggie Trenchard scored a touchdown, led to a Latrobe newspaper 
stating that “Greensburg got the game and Latrobe got the cash.” However 
Greensburg's hopes of winning a state championship were dashed when the 
club was finally defeated by the Duquesne Country and Athletic Club in 
Pittsburgh, 18-4, on November 14. The game was followed by a scoreless 
tie with Pittsburgh Athletic Club. Greensburg did recover from their road 
trip to post a 10-0 win over Latrobe on Thanksgiving Day to end the season 
6-1-1.[4] The 1897 season marked the pinnacle of the professional football 
era in Greensburg. That year's squad had 27 players, which included a number 
of new ones. Among those players was George Barclay, of Millville, who 
played a halfback at Bucknell University and Lafayette University. Barclay 
brought several of Lafayette top players with him to Greensburg to enhance 
the team. Greensburg went on to post a 10-1 record. The team's only defeat 
came at a 12–6 loss in the ninth game to Latrobe. However the outcome of 
that game was reversed by a 6–0 score in a season-ending rematch at Latrobe. 
Greensburg, along with Washington and Jefferson College, had the best football 
records in Pennsylvania for the 1897 season. Barclay, however, was the 
only Greensburg player among the eleven named by The Pittsburg Times to 
their “All-Western Pennsylvania” team.[7] The start of the 1898 season 
saw optimism in Greensburg with the return of ex-coach Charlie Atherton. 
However, some of the players from the 1897 season had bigger offers to 
play elsewhere and left the team. Replacing these players proved hard since 
the amount of money, to lure new talent to Greensburg, was hard to come 
by in a small city.[1] However, as early as 1898, the team featured Christy 
Mathewson, a future baseball hall of famer and former fullback from Bucknell 
University, in their line-up.[8] Greensburg's first game that season was 
against, their rivials, Latrobe. The game was played on a field, so muddy 
that the game had to be delayed at one point so that mud could be removed 
from the eyes, nose, mouth and ears of Latrobe’s Ed Abbaticchio, who was 
buried in the mud on one of his carries. Latrobe went on to win the game 
6-0 (4-0 by other accounts). The 1898 season would go on to be marred with 
another loss to Latrobe, and ties against Duquesne Country and Athletic 
Club and the Pittsburgh Athletic Club. However the team later turned things 
around to finish the season strong. In the final game of the season, Greensburg 
beat rival Latrobe 6-0 at Latrobe. According to the Greensburg Daily Tribune, 
the end of the game was marred by stoning and spitting on Greensburg players 
and fans, “boorish conduct by ruffians,” resulting in one player being 
injured when he was hit on the head by a rock.[1] At the end of the season, 
against their club's wishes, Greensburg's Charles Rinehart and George Barclay 
played in the very first pro football all-star game for the 1898 Western 
Pennsylvania All-Star football team, against the Duquesne Country and Athletic 
Club, on December 3, 1898. The all-star team was put together by Latrobe 
manager, Dave Berry and resulted in 16-0 Duquesne win. For reasons that 
are still unclear, Greensburg leaders opposed the game and did their best 
to discourage their players from taking part.[9] After an apparent decline 
in financial resources and interest, professional football in Greensburg 
and Latrobe underwent a one-year hiatus in 1899. Some efforts were made 
to reorganize a team around a core of local members of the 1898 squad, 
which would have to be shored up by obtaining some Latrobe players. However 
this effort never materialized. When the 1899 season began, most of the 
top Greensburg players of the year before were playing for either Greensburg's 
rivals in Pittsburgh or for other teams as far away as Newark, New Jersey. 
As result of not having a Greensburg or Latrobe team in 1899, the football 
clubs from Pittsburgh completed their schedules by playing teams mainly 
from eastern Pennsylvania.[1] In 1900, plans were complete for the return 
of professional football to Greensburg. Under the direction of industrialist 
Morris L. Painter, Greensburg once again fielded a team. Many of the players 
were from eastern and midwestern colleges and universities. The top sought 
player for the 1900 season, Ralph Hutchinson of Princeton, signed with 
Greensburg as a player-coach. Meanwhile, Isaac Seneca, a former All-American 
from the Carlisle Indian School, was also signed to the team. Also that 
year, Latrobe's team was reorganized by the team's long-time manager, Dave 
Berry. Soon a three-game series had been arranged between Latrobe and Greensburg 
which provided for a home-and-home series, with a third game at the site 
which drew the largest crowd.[10] Greensburg began the season 2-1-1, before 
losing 6-5 to the Homestead Library & Athletic Club, a Pittsburgh-area 
team financed heavily by the Carnegie Steel Company. Newspapers in Greensburg 
called it “the greatest contest ever witnessed on the Greensburg gridiron”. 
The game also featured a match-up between two of the era's star players: 
Homestead's Art Poe and Greensburg's Isaac Seneca. Greensburg newspaper 
accounts of the day state that Seneca outplayed Poe. However the Greensburg 
club did sustain several key injuries during the game. By this time Greensburg 
was unable to regain its footing. A loss at home, this time to Latrobe, 
was sustained a week later on October 27. This marked Greensburg's third 
straight loss. During the game a fight between Seneca and the Latrobe quarterback, 
named Kennedy, led to a riot between the opposing fans and players. This 
riot prompted the Westmoreland County Sheriff's Office to devise a heighten 
security plan for the return game in Latrobe. On October 31, the Greensburg 
team, still injury-plagued, suffered a fourth consecutive loss, 24-0, to 
Duquesne Country and Athletic Club at Exposition Park. Greensburg's final 
win came on November 5 with a 22-0 over Altoona. However the team was defeated 
again by Homestead five days later, 22-0 over Altoona. The final professional 
football game for Greensburg took place on November 17, in Latrobe. Latrobe 
would go on to win the game, 11-0, and the claim of “Westmoreland County 
championship”. By this time, the team was experiencing major financial 
problems. To make matters even worse, the club's scheduled next-to-last 
game was cancelled due to inclement weather. However the worst occurred 
when Latrobe, who always drew large crowds when they played Greensburg, 
withdrew from a scheduled Thanksgiving Day game. Latrobe paid a $400 forfeit 
and withdrew from the Thanksgiving Day game at Greensburg to play against 
Duquesne instead. However that game also had to be cancelled because of 
extreme weather conditions. Greensburg's final season record was 3-7.[1] 
Although there were probably others, several members of the 1895 squad 
who were known to have been paid to play football were Fiscus, guard-quarterback 
Adam Wyant of Bucknell and the University of Chicago, and fullback Charles 
Atherton and halfback Fred Robison, both of Penn State. Wyant was cited 
by his coach at Chicago, Amos Alonzo Stagg, as “one of the best men that 
ever donned the canvas jacket” (then part of the uniform). Wyant also served 
at one time as principal of the Greensburg schools and became a U.S. Congressman 
from the Greensburg area. He would go on to be the first U.S. Congressman 
to have played professional football. Atherton, who had a street and campus 
building named after him, later became president of Penn State University.[1] 
