The Green Weenie was a sports gimmick co-created by Bob Prince (1916–1985), 
the legendary broadcaster for the Pittsburgh Pirates Major League Baseball 
team, and Pirate trainer Danny Whelan. It was most popular during the 1966 
baseball season in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA. The "Green Weenie" was 
manufactured by Tri-State Plastics, a Pittsburgh plastic thermoforming 
company between 1967-1974 and during the 1989 season. The Green Weenie 
was a green plastic rattle in the shape of a hot dog, which when waved 
at opposing players, purportedly put a jinx on them. Conversely, when waved 
at Pirate players it allegedly bestowed good luck. The superstition began 
during a 1966 game against the Houston Astros, when Danny Whelan shouted 
from the dugout at Astros' pitcher Dave Giusti, "You're gonna walk him!" 
while waving a green rubber hot dog in the direction of the pitcher's mound. 
Giusti did walk the batter, and the Astros lost the game. During the next 
game's broadcast, Prince quizzed Whelan about the frankfurter incident, 
and the gimmick was born. Within weeks, Green Weenies were being sold to 
fans at Forbes Field. Though the gimmick didn't conjure up a pennant for 
the Pirates in 1966, the writer Dave Cole has noted that Roberto Clemente 
did win that year's National League MVP Award, Matty Alou won the National 
League batting title, Bill Mazeroski led the league in double plays, and 
Willie Stargell had his personal best year in batting. According to the 
August 12, 1966 issue of Time Magazine, however, the hex of the Green Weenie 
sometimes seemed to work: "When the Pirates played the Giants two weeks 
ago, Prince pointed a Weenie at Juan Marichal. Marichal won the game, 2-1, 
but next day he caught the third finger of his pitching hand in a car door 
and missed two scheduled turns on the mound. In Pittsburgh, the Pirates 
were trailing the Philadelphia Phillies 3-1 in the seventh inning when 
Prince's fellow announcer Don Hoak begged Bob to use the Weenie. 'Not yet,' 
said Prince. In the eighth inning, with Pittsburgh still behind by two 
runs, Prince finally waved the Weenie. The Pirates scored four runs and 
won the game 5-3. 'Remember,' said Prince to Hoak. 'Never waste the power 
of the Green Weenie.'" The Green Weenie was revived several times during 
subsequent seasons, but failed to stay popular with fans. In 1974, Prince 
invented another talisman, encouraging female fans to spark a Pirates rally 
by waving their babushkas (folded kerchiefs used as head coverings, especially 
by East European women, a large immigrant minority in Pittsburgh). "Babushka 
Power," as it was called, most likely inspired the Terrible Towel, another 
sports gimmick created a year later by sportscaster Myron Cope for the 
Pittsburgh Steelers, the city's football team. The Terrible Towel has remained 
