Greensburg is a city in and the county seat of Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania, 
United States,[3] and a part of the Pittsburgh Metro Area. The city lies 
within the Laurel Highlands and the ecoregion of the Western Allegheny 
Plateau.[4] The city is named after Nathanael Greene, a major general of 
the Continental Army in the American Revolutionary War. The population 
was 14,892 at the 2010 census. Located 30 miles southeast of Pittsburgh, 
Greensburg is a major business, academic, tourism and cultural center in 
Western Pennsylvania. It is evident as the city's population doubles during 
work hours. The city ranks seventh in Pennsylvania in daytime growth, behind 
Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, Harrisburg, King of Prussia, Lancaster, and State 
College. It also ranks 16th in the United States for daytime growth among 
towns with a resident population between 15,000 and 24,999.[5] In 2007, 
Greensburg was ranked as one of the "Best Places to Retire" in Pennsylvania 
by U.S. News & World Report.[6] After the end of the Revolutionary War, 
an inn was built along a wagon trail that stretched from Philadelphia west 
over the Appalachian Mountains to Fort Pitt, now the city of Pittsburgh. 
A tiny settlement known as Newtown grew around the inn, today the center 
of Greensburg's Business District at the intersection of Pittsburgh and 
Main Streets. At Pittsburgh, the wagon trail became Penn Avenue. In 1782, 
a raid by Guyasuta-led Seneca Indians accompanied by Canadian rangers burned 
Hannastown, the original Westmoreland County seat, north of Greensburg, 
and the first county seat west of the Allegheny Mountains. Newtown became 
the new county seat in 1785. In 1786, the county built a log courthouse 
on land purchased from two residents, Christopher Truby and William Jack. 
The Westmoreland County Courthouse, in its various incarnations, has stood 
on this site. The area surrounding the courthouse became the original borough 
of Greensburg, named for American Revolutionary War General Nathanael Greene,[7] 
and formally incorporated as a borough in 1799. In the early 19th century, 
Greensburg had very little growth. After 1850, Greensburg became a growing 
county seat with inns and small businesses. It was a railroad stop and 
the discovery of large areas of soft coal nearby made it the center of 
a vigorous mining industry in the late 19th century and early 20th century. 
Seton Hill College, formerly St. Joseph's Academy, became a four-year women's 
institution in 1918. Greensburg became a Third-Class City on January 2, 
1928. After World War II, more residential areas were developed in various 
sections of town. Greensburg's cultural status grew as the Westmoreland 
County Museum of Art opened in 1959 and the University of Pittsburgh founded 
the branch campus, University of Pittsburgh at Greensburg, in 1963, now 
located in Hempfield Township. The opening of Greengate Mall and Westmoreland 
Mall in 1965 and 1977, respectively, marked a new era for retail shopping 
in the area, but negatively impacted retail businesses in Downtown Greensburg's 
shopping district. Changes in local shopping habits had already taken its 
toll by the late 1970s when Troutman's Department Store closed. By the 
mid-1990s, city officials shifted its revitalization plans on the cultural 
aspects of Downtown Greensburg, such as the restorations of the Palace 
Theater and the historic Train Station, as well as a new, recently opened 
performing arts center for Seton Hill University. Also, in July 2009, Lake 
Erie College of Osteopathic Medicine, the largest medical school in the 
country, opened a satellite campus at Seton Hill University. Now over 200 
students study at LECOM at Seton Hill every year. As part of this ongoing 
transition, an expansion of the Westmoreland Museum of American Art was 
completed in 2015. The city is home of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Greensburg. 
The city of Greensburg is currently composed of eight wards, most of which 
were formerly boroughs and are divided into several neighborhoods. Bunker 
Hill, now Fifth Ward, was merged into Greensburg in 1894. The name originated 
because of fights at the rowdy Bushfield Tavern in the early 1840s to mid-19th 
century that were compared to the Battle of Bunker Hill. In 1905, Greensburg 
absorbed three adjacent boroughs, including Ludwick, now Sixth Ward, which 
was named for Ludwick Otterman, an early settler for whom the street is 
also named, as well as East Greensburg, now Seventh Ward, and Southeast 
Greensburg, unofficially known as Paradise (Eighth Ward). South Maple Avenue 
was originally named Kinderhook (Third Ward). Second Ward, located north 
of Downtown Greensburg, is the largest ward and includes the neighborhoods 
of Saybrook Village, Evergreen Hill, New Salem Acres, Country Club Meadows, 
Northmont, Devonshire Heights, Rose Fountain Farms and Academy Hill. Hilltop, 
a neighborhood in Eighth Ward, was originally settled by Italian immigrants 
and borders South Greensburg and Underwood on either side. First Ward features 
Chestnut Hill and Shuey Plan, and is also home to Seton Hill University. 
Other Greensburg neighborhoods include Eastern Estates, Underwood, Shogan 
and Hillcrest. Eighth Ward was originally home to many Italian immigrants 
from Cercemaggiore, Italy. Today, the original Our Lady of Grace church, 
built by the masons from Italy, still stands although used as a residence. 
The Hilltop Social Club, founded by a few families who lived in the areas 
of Bierer, Margaret, White and Catherine Streets is also located here. 
Every year it has become a tradition for the firehall in the Eighth Ward 
to throw a carnival which includes bingo, amusement rides, and of course 
the famous Shuey Burgers.[clarification needed] Two neighborhoods have 
been designated as U.S. historic districts, the Greensburg Downtown Historic 
District and the Academy Hill Historic District. Also listed on the National 
Register of Historic Places are the Greensburg Railroad Station and Westmoreland 
County Courthouse.[8] As of the census[1] of 2000, there were 15,889 people, 
7,144 households, and 3,922 families residing in the city. The population 
density was 3,746.1 people per square mile (1,446.9/km²). There were 7,734 
housing units at an average density of 1,823.4 per square mile (704.3/km²). 
The racial makeup of the city was 93.43% White, 3.91% African American, 
0.09% Native American, 0.70% Asian, 0.01% Pacific Islander, 0.38% from 
other races, and 1.47% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any 
race were 1.08% of the population. There were 7,144 households out of which 
24.1% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 39.3% were married 
couples living together, 12.8% had a female householder with no husband 
present, and 45.1% were non-families. 39.2% of all households were made 
up of individuals and 15.4% had someone living alone who was 65 years of 
age or older. The average household size was 2.11 and the average family 
size was 2.85. In the city the age distribution of the population shows 
20.2% under the age of 18, 10.0% from 18 to 24, 27.9% from 25 to 44, 22.6% 
from 45 to 64, and 19.3% who were 65 years of age or older. The median 
age was 39 years. For every 100 females there were 81.7 males. For every 
100 females age 18 and over, there were 76.1 males. The median income for 
a household in the city was $30,324, and the median income for a family 
was $41,112. Males had a median income of $33,306 versus $24,246 for females. 
The per capita income for the city was $18,312. About 10.8% of families 
and 13.6% of the population were below the poverty line, including 18.1% 
of those under age 18 and 11.9% of those age 65 or over. Greensburg is 
an incorporated city governed by Democratic mayor Robert L. Bell and a 
four-member City Council. The mayor and the City Council members serve 
four-year terms. The seat of government is the Greensburg City Hall. The 
small size of Greensburg has not deterred it from being a player on the 
political scene. Greensburg has hosted its share of prominent politicians 
over the years, including a July 1994 visit from then-President Bill Clinton, 
former Democratic candidate John Kerry and his running mate John Edwards 
in July 2004 and Democratic candidates Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama 
in March 2008. It was also, according to local historians, the site of 
the 1854 National Republican Party convention – the first convention of 
the Grand Old Republican Party, despite Pittsburgh's claims. Greensburg 
is home to the 14th Quartermaster Detachment, a famous Desert Storm Unit. 
There is also a National Guard Armory just outside the main City. Originally 
a railroad stop on the Pennsylvania Railroad, Greensburg quickly became 
the center of the coal mining industry in the region by the late 19th century 
when large areas of soft coal were discovered nearby. This contributed 
to the growth and development of the growing county seat. Many businesses 
and inns flourished within Downtown Greensburg for many years, and once 
boasted four major department stores – JCPenney, Royers, Sears and its 
largest department store, Troutman's. In August 1965, Greengate Mall opened 
west of the city in Hempfield Township. Greengate was part of the first 
wave of indoor shopping malls in the country. The mall's opening marked 
a new era for retail shopping in the area, but it negatively impacted stand-alone 
businesses in Greensburg's downtown corridor. By the late 1970s, several 
local stores, including Troutman's, the city's major department store, 
closed. The downtown area eventually rebounded as the city became a center 
for service industries, professional offices and banking. Today, small 
downtown shops and a growing number of restaurants are reviving downtown 
as a mercantile center. Westmoreland Mall is currently the largest shopping 
complex in the Greensburg area and all of Westmoreland County. Greengate 
Mall suffered losses in the 1990s when anchor store JCPenney relocated 
to Westmoreland Mall. As the mall continued on its irreversible decline, 
the nationally-based Montgomery Ward and the regional chain Horne's also 
closed. The building was eventually razed in 2003, and a new shopping center 
called Greengate Centre, anchored by a Walmart, was subsequently built. 
Numerous shopping plazas and dining establishments also line the Route 
30 corridor east and west of the city. With over 5,000,000 square feet 
(460,000 m2) of retail space and growing, Greensburg is considered the 
commercial center of the Laurel Highlands region of Pennsylvania as well 
as one of the largest retail markets in Western Pennsylvania. Light to 
moderate industry and service industries thrive in the Greater Greensburg 
area. Several industrial parks are primarily located outside the city limits. 
In addition, the area is home to two large prisons, the Westmoreland County 
Prison and the State Correctional Institution at Greensburg, both in Hempfield 
Township. Housing growth continues on the northern end of the city, with 
the Saybrook Village and Evergreen Hill plans. The opening of the seven-story 
State Office Building on North Main Street, the completion of the four-story 
addition to the Courthouse Square Extension, and the Performing Arts Center 
of Seton Hill University are expected to add new jobs to the city and attract 
more visitors. These major corporations are headquartered in the Greensburg 
area: The Greater Greensburg area contains two public school districts. 
The larger of the two is the Hempfield Area School District. The school 
district has a resident population of over 50,000 and spans approximately 
ninety-five square miles and lies thirty miles southeast of Pittsburgh. 
Comprising Hempfield Township, and the communities of Adamsburg, Armbrust, 
Bovard, Grapeville, Hannastown, Hunker, Luxor, Manor, New Stanton, and 
Youngwood, the school district completely surrounds the city of Greensburg. 
Hempfield is also the largest school district in Westmoreland County with 
approximately 7,000 enrolled students and is one of the largest in Western 
Pennsylvania. The second school district servicing Greensburg itself is 
the Greensburg Salem School District. The school district covers an area 
of fifty-one square miles. With an enrollment of 3,600 students, Greensburg 
Salem serves the City of Greensburg, South Greensburg, Southwest Greensburg 
and Salem Township. Detailed information including enrollment figures and 
test scores about Greensburg Salem can be found on this website. Greensburg 
is home to Greensburg Central Catholic High School and Aquinas Academy 
(www.aquinasacademy.org), both private Catholic schools. The immediate 
vicinity of Greensburg contains two major universities – Seton Hill University 
and the University of Pittsburgh at Greensburg. Seton Hill University was 
founded in 1885 by the Sisters of Charity on a bluff overlooking the City 
of Greensburg. Formerly a women's college, Seton Hill became a coeducational 
university in 2002. In recent years, Seton Hill has begun to expand into 
the downtown area with the construction of several academic buildings and 
a performing arts center. The Greensburg campus of the University of Pittsburgh 
was founded in 1963 in Downtown Greensburg, and would later grow into a 
large campus in nearby Hempfield Township. It was voted "Best University 
in the Region" for eight straight years (1999–2007) by the Tribune-Review. 
In addition, the branches of Carlow University, Lake Erie College of Osteopathic 
Medicine and Triangle Tech are located within the Greater Greensburg area. 
The campuses of Saint Vincent College and Westmoreland County Community 
College are also located in the nearby communities of Latrobe and Youngwood, 
respectively. The Greensburg Hempfield Area Library serves the City of 
Greensburg and Hempfield Township. Greensburg is a major cultural center 
in Western Pennsylvania. It is the home of the Westmoreland Museum of American 
Art, which specializes in American Art circa 1750–1950. The Palace Theatre, 
in the heart of the city's emerging cultural district, is the site for 
various performances throughout the year. Additionally, it is the home 
of the Westmoreland Symphony Orchestra, and the Summer Sounds Concert Series 
at the Robertshaw Amphitheater in St. Clair Park. The Westmoreland Cultural 
Trust has played a major role in the revitalization of Downtown Greensburg 
in recent years. Its accomplishments include the ongoing renovation of 
the Palace Theatre and the restoration (Before/After Pictures) of the circa 
1910 Train Station. They are also responsible for renovating several commercial 
buildings in the downtown area. Stage Right! also contributes to the culture 
of the region, offering classes in musical theatre for young people and 
staging professional productions at the Palace Theater and Greensburg Garden 
and Civic Center. Greensburg Civic Theatre, one of the few long-established 
volunteer-based community theatre organizations in Westmoreland County, 
has been presenting both adult and children's theater productions for over 
60 years. Founded in 1951, they are the resident theatre company at the 
Greensburg Garden and Civic Center. The Performance Arts Center of Seton 
Hill University opened its doors to the public in September 2009. This 
multimillion-dollar complex, located in the city's Cultural District, is 
expected to serve as an additional catalyst for the future growth of the 
downtown core. A hands-on science center, to feature a wide range of interactive 
exhibits, was proposed for the former Mellon Bank building downtown, but 
it has since been put on hold indefinitely. Titled the Discovery & Interactive 
Science Center (DISC), it was to be a regional attraction for Westmoreland, 
Fayette, Indiana, Somerset and Bedford counties. It would've also been 
the only interactive science center between the Carnegie Science Center 
in Pittsburgh and the Harsco Science Center in Harrisburg. Since Greensburg 
is overshadowed by nearby Pittsburgh, radio and television stations are 
mostly based out of the larger city. On a much lesser scale, some Johnstown-area 
media outlets are also available in parts of Greensburg. The following 
information is about media based exclusively in Greensburg. From 1890 until 
1900, Greensburg was the home of the Greensburg Athletic Association, one 
of the earliest professional football teams. The team began as an amateur 
football club in 1890 and was composed primarily of locals before several 
paid players were added for 1895. In 1894 it was discovered that the team 
had secretly paid formerly Indiana Normal (now Indiana University of Pennsylvania) 
player, Lawson Fiscus, to play football and retained his services on salary. 
The team was the chief rival of another early professional football team, 
the Latrobe Athletic Association.[13] On December 3, 1898, two players 
from the Greensburg Athletic Association joined with the Latrobe Athletic 
Association to form the very first professional football all-star team 
for a game against the Duquesne Country and Athletic Club, to be played 
at Pittsburgh's Exposition Park. Duquesne went on to win the game 16-0.[14] 
Aside from Fiscus, the Greensburg Athletic Association included several 
of the era's top players, such as: Charlie Atherton, George Barclay, Ross 
Fiscus, Jack Gass, Arthur McFarland, Charles Rinehart, Isaac Seneca and 
Adam Martin Wyant. Several of these players revolutionized the game during 
their playing careers. Charlie Atherton is credited with inventing the 
place kick, and George Barclay invented the first-ever football helmet. 
Meanwhile, Isaac Seneca became the first Native-American to earn All-American 
honors and Adam Wyant made history by becoming the first professional football 
player to be elected to the United States Congress.[13] In 1907, Greensburg 
fielded the Greensburg Red Sox, a Minor League Baseball team in the Class 
D Western Pennsylvania League that played for one season in 1907.[15] Then 
from 1934 until 1939, Greensburg was also the home of the Greensburg Red 
Wings, a Class D Minor League Baseball team was affiliated with the St. 
Louis Cardinals, Brooklyn Dodgers and Washington Senators. The team's name 
changed several times over the years. In 1934, the team was founded as 
the Greensburg Trojans. A year later, they took on the Red Wings moniker. 
By 1937, the team was renamed as the Greensburg Green Sox and finally the 
Greensburg Senators in 1939.[16] The east-west U.S Route 30 expressway 
bypasses Greensburg to the south, as does the north-south Pennsylvania 
Turnpike 66 to the west. A proposed highway called the Laurel Valley Expressway 
was initially planned to be built to the east of Greensburg, primarily 
in Unity, Derry, and Mount Pleasant townships, but that project has never 
materialized. The Pennsylvania Turnpike's New Stanton exit is about six 
miles (9 km) south of Greensburg on U.S. Route 119 where Interstate 70 
splits from Interstate 76. The Turnpike's Irwin exit is located about seven 
miles west of the city on U.S. route 30. PA Routes 66 and 136 begin in 
Greensburg. PA Routes 130, 819 and U.S. Route 119 pass through the city. 
U.S. Route 22, a major connector from Central to Southwestern Pennsylvania 
runs approximately seven miles north of the city through Salem Township, 
accessible by routes 66, 819, and 119. Westmoreland Transit is the mass 
transit system of Greensburg and Westmoreland County and operates a network 
of bus routes seven days a week throughout the city and the rest of the 
county, as well as Pittsburgh. Greyhound Lines runs regular scheduled bus 
service to and from Greensburg from many hubs, including Pittsburgh, Chicago, 
and New York City. Air service is available at the Pittsburgh International 
Airport and at the Arnold Palmer Regional Airport east of Greensburg in 
nearby Latrobe. The city has Amtrak rail service at the restored Train 
Station, as well as freight rail operator Norfolk Southern and an independent 
shortline railroad connecting coal mines and businesses located south of 
the city to the Norfolk Southern line just west of Greensburg. Greensburg 
is bike-friendly as it offers the Five Star Trail, which begins at Lynch 
Field and ends south of the city in Armbrust. It will eventually connect 
to the north section of the Youghiogheny River Trail, which is a part of 
the Great Allegheny Passage. Electricity for Greensburg and a large portion 
of Westmoreland County is supplied by West Penn Power, a division of FirstEnergy. 
In addition, natural gas is widely used in the area due to large reserves 
existing throughout the region. Service is provided by Peoples Natural 
Gas Company and Columbia Natural Gas Company. Water utility service is 
provided by the Municipal Authority of Westmoreland County (MAWC). Waste 
collection and sewage utilities are provided by Advanced Disposal and the 
Greater Greensburg Sewage Authority, respectively. The Greater Greensburg 
area is home to several medical facilities, ranging from independent clinics 
and urgent care centers to full-service hospitals. The following listing 
is not exhaustive. Greensburg is located within the 724 area code, which 
completely surrounds the 412 area code assigned to the city of Pittsburgh 
and most of Allegheny County, along with small portions of Washington and 
Westmoreland counties. In 2013, the overlay code 878 was approved for use 
in the area. Greensburg has two sister cities, as designated by Sister 
