The Green Monster is a popular nickname for the 37'2" (11.33 m) high left 
field wall at Fenway Park, home to the Boston Red Sox baseball team. The 
wall is only 310–315 feet from home plate, and is a popular target for 
right-handed hitters. The wall was part of the original ballpark construction 
of 1912. It is made of wood, and was covered in tin and concrete in 1934. 
It was then covered with hard plastic in 1976. A manual scoreboard is set 
into the wall. Despite the name, the Green Monster was not painted green 
until 1947; before that it was covered with advertisements. The Monster 
designation is relatively new. For most of its history it was simply called 
"The Wall". The wall is the highest among current Major League Baseball 
fields, and is the second highest among all professional baseball fields 
(including minor leagues), falling approximately 6 inches short of the 
left field wall at the PeoplesBank Park in York, Pennsylvania. Ballparks 
occupied by professional baseball teams have often featured high fences 
hiding the field from external viewers, particularly behind open areas 
of the outfield where bleacher seating is low-lying or non-existent. The 
wall might also reduce the number of "cheap" home runs due to the barrier's 
relatively close distance from home plate. Fenway's wall serves both purposes. 
Past ballparks of Fenway's era or even later which featured high fences 
in-play included Baker Bowl, Washington Park, Ebbets Field, League Park, 
Griffith Stadium, Shibe Park, and more recently, Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum. 
Fenway is the last of the exceptionally high-walled major league ballparks. 
Relatively high walls in modern ballparks have been constructed for their 
novelty rather than by necessity, as Fenway's wall had been. The Green 
Monster is famous for preventing home runs on many line drives that would 
clear the walls of other ballparks. A side effect of this is to increase 
the prevalence of doubles, since this is the most common result when the 
ball is hit off the wall (often referred to as a "wallball double"). Some 
left fielders, predominantly those with vast Fenway experience, have become 
adept at fielding caroms off the wall to throw runners out at second base 
or hold the batter to a single. Compared with other current major league 
parks, the wall's placement creates a comparatively shallow left field; 
the wall falls approximately 304–310 feet (93–94 m) from the plate along 
the left-field foul line. With this short distance, many deep fly balls 
that could be caught by the fielder in a deeper park rebound off the wall 
for base hits. And while the wall turns many would-be line-drive homers 
into doubles it also allows some high yet shallow fly balls to clear the 
field of play for a home run. During 2001 and 2002, the Green Monster's 
height record was temporarily beaten by the center field wall at Riverfront 
Stadium in Cincinnati, Ohio. During the construction of Great American 
Ball Park, located right next to Riverfront Stadium, a large section of 
seats was removed from the center field area to make room and a 40-foot 
(12 m) black wall was erected as a temporary batter's eye. The entire wall 
was in play. This new wall was often called "The Black Monster". When Riverfront 
Stadium was demolished in 2002, the Green Monster reclaimed the record. 
In honor of the famed wall, the Red Sox mascot is a furry green monster, 
named Wally. From 1912 to 1933, there was a 10-foot-high (3.0 m) mound 
that formed an incline in front of the Green Monster, extending from the 
left-field foul pole to the center field flag pole. This earthwork formed 
a "terrace", a common feature of ballparks of the day, whose purpose was 
to make up the difference in grade between street level and field level, 
as with Cincinnati's Crosley Field. It also served to double as a seating 
area to handle overflow crowds, another common practice of that era. As 
a result of the terrace, a left fielder in Fenway Park had to play the 
territory running uphill. Boston's first star left fielder, Duffy Lewis, 
mastered the skill so well that the area became known as "Duffy's Cliff". 
In contrast, rotund outfielder Bob Fothergill, known by the indelicate 
nicknames of "Fats" or "Fatty", reportedly once chased a ball up the terrace, 
slipped and fell, and literally rolled downhill. In 1934, Red Sox owner 
Tom Yawkey arranged to flatten the ground in left field so that Duffy's 
Cliff no longer existed, and it became part of the lore of Fenway Park. 
The scoreboard was added in 1934. It forms the lower half of the Green 
Monster and is still updated by hand from behind the wall throughout the 
game. The American League scores are also updated from behind the wall. 
The National League scores need to be updated from the front of the wall 
between innings.[1] There is also a board which shows the current American 
League East standings. There are 127 slots in the wall and a team of three 
score keepers move around two pound, 13 by 16 inch, plates to represent 
the score. Yellow numbers are used to represent in-inning scores and white 
numbers are used to represent final inning tallies. The numbers of the 
current pitchers weigh three pounds and measure 16 by 16 inches.[2] Carlton 
Fisk's "body English" when he hit his game-winning home run in Game 6 of 
the 1975 World Series, "waving" the ball fair, was captured on a TV camera 
stationed in the scoreboard. An obviously apocryphal story[who?] states 
that the camera operator had abandoned his post when he saw a rat scurry 
by, and the camera remained trained on Fisk instead of trying to follow 
the flight of the ball. The actual video replay makes it obvious that it 
was a human camera operator tracked shot. The Morse Code that appears from 
top to bottom in the white lines of the American League scoreboard are 
the initials of former owners Thomas A. Yawkey and Jean R. Yawkey.[3] Fenway's 
left-field distortion is offset by the odd shape and generous size of right 
field, which is 302 feet (92 m) (although its actual distance has been 
disputed over the years) along the line (almost the same as in left), but 
380 feet (120 m) at its deepest. The bullpen was added along the right 
field wall in 1940 to shorten the distance for left-handed slugger Ted 
Williams' home runs to clear the fence. For years afterward, the bullpens 
were known as "Williamsburg". In 1936, the Red Sox installed a 23-foot 
(7.0 m) net above the Monster in order to protect the storefronts on adjoining 
Lansdowne Street from home run balls. The net remained until the 2002–03 
offseason, when the team's new ownership constructed a new seating section 
atop the wall to accommodate 274 fans. Wildly popular, these "Monster seats" 
were part of a larger expansion plan for Fenway Park seating. The Red Sox 
later added a smaller seating section in 2005, dubbed the "Nation's Nest," 
located between the main seating section and the center field scoreboard. 
Comprising yet another quirk, a ladder is attached to the Green Monster, 
extending from near the upper-left portion of the scoreboard, 13 feet (4.0 m) 
above ground, to the top of the wall. Previously, members of the grounds 
crew would use the ladder to retrieve home run balls from the netting hung 
above the wall. After the net was removed for the addition of the Monster 
seats, the ladder ceased to have any real function, yet it still remains 
in place as a historic relic. The placement of the ladder is noteworthy 
given the fact that it is in fair territory; it is the only such ladder 
in the major leagues. On many occasions, a batted ball has struck the ladder 
during game play, at least twice leading to an inside-the-park home run.[4] 
During a 1950s game, Red Sox outfielders Ted Williams and Jimmy Piersall 
both tracked a fly ball in left center, but the ball struck the ladder 
and caromed into center field, giving batter Jim Lemon enough time to round 
the bases. Later, in 1963, the slow-footed Dick Stuart hit a high fly that 
ricocheted first off the ladder, and then the head of outfielder Vic Davalillo, 
before rolling far enough away to allow Stuart to score. After the wall 
was painted green in 1947, advertisements did not appear on the wall until 
1999, when the All-Star Game at Fenway was being promoted. Various ads 
have appeared above the scoreboard since then, such as the Jimmy Fund, 
W.B. Mason, and Granite City Electric. The Coke Bottles on the left light 
tower were a target for power-hitters when they were placed in 1997. These 
3D advertisements were taken down before the 2008 season, when an LED sign 
was built above the new left-field upper deck seats. As a lead up to his 
500th career home run, Manny Ramirez's home run count was tallied on the 
bottom of the light tower. Ads beside the manual scoreboard were added 
when the scoreboard was expanded. Above the manual scoreboard, where a 
Jimmy Fund advertisement had remained for many years, the logo for Covidien 
is now a prominent aspect of Fenway Park. An electrically lit Citgo sign 
can be seen from inside Fenway, located outside the park, in the view above 
the left-field wall. The famous sign, located atop the building housing 
the Barnes & Noble Boston University bookstore on nearby Kenmore Square, 
was erected in 1965, replacing a "Cities Service" sign (Citgo's old name) 
that had been there previously. The sign is kept as a landmark. On October 
