Greenfield is a city in Franklin County, Massachusetts, United States. 
Greenfield was first settled in 1686. The population was 17,456 at the 
2010 census.[1] It is the county seat of Franklin County.[2] Greenfield 
is home to Greenfield Community College, the Pioneer Valley Symphony Orchestra, 
and the Franklin County Fair. The city has a Main Street Historic District 
containing fine examples of Federal, Greek Revival, and Victorian architecture. 
Greenfield is part of the Springfield, Massachusetts, Metropolitan Statistical 
Area. Pocumtuck Indians first settled and originally inhabited the Greenfield 
area. Native American artifacts found in the area have been dated between 
7,000 and 9,000 years BCE.[3] The Pocumtucks planted field crops and fished 
local rivers. Some sources claim that they were wiped out by the Mohawks 
in 1664 and that the land was left unoccupied.[4] This theory may be an 
example of the principle of vacuum docilium, a frequently used justification 
for the displacement of native peoples.[5] Other sources show that the 
Pocumtucks joined the Wampanoag chief Metacom in August 1675 in the fight 
against English encroachment, indicating a continued presence in the area.[6] 
The Pocumtuck also played an important role in the Battle of Great Falls 
/ Wissantinnewag - Peskeompskut on May 19, 1676, and tribal oral tradition 
indicates that following the battle, elements of the Pocumtuck fled to 
and were incorporated into the Abenaki people to the north and the Mahican 
people to the west.[6] The area was colonized as part of Deerfield by the 
English in 1686. In 1753, Greenfield, named for the Green River, was incorporated 
as a separate town from Deerfield. In 1795 the South Hadley Canal opened, 
enabling boats to bypass the South Hadley falls and reach Greenfield via 
the Connecticut River. Located at the confluence of the Deerfield and Green 
rivers, and not far from where they merge into the Connecticut River, Greenfield 
developed into a trade center. Falls provided water power for industry, 
and Greenfield grew into a prosperous mill town. John Russell established 
the Green River Works in 1834, hiring skilled German workers at what was 
the country's first cutlery factory. The Connecticut River Railroad was 
the first of several railways to enter the town, replacing the former canal 
trade. During the 19th and 20th centuries, Greenfield was one of the most 
important American centers of the tap and die business and was the home 
of Greenfield Tap & Die Company (GTD). It was designated the county seat 
when Franklin County was created from Hampshire County in 1811. Old Stone 
Mill c. 1920 Franklin Street in 1906 Mansion House c. 1908 Early bridges 
over the Deerfield River c. 1915 According to the United States Census 
Bureau, the town has a total area of 22 square miles (56.7 km2), of which 
21 square miles (55.5 km2) is land and 0.5 square miles (1.2 km2), or 2.08%, 
is water.[7] Greenfield is located at the center of the county and is bordered 
by Colrain, Leyden, and Bernardston to the north; Gill to the east; Montague 
to the southeast; Deerfield to the south; and Shelburne to the west. Greenfield 
is located 39 miles (63 km) north of Springfield and 90 miles (145 km) 
west-northwest of Boston. Greenfield lies at the confluence of the Deerfield, 
Green, and Connecticut rivers. The Green River runs from the north, through 
town to the Deerfield, which lies along the city's southern border. From 
there, the Deerfield meets the Connecticut, which flows southward along 
the Montague border before bending eastward briefly before continuing southward. 
Several brooks flow into the three rivers, as well as a fourth river, the 
Fall River, which makes up the city's border with Gill. The city is located 
beside the Pocumtuck Range, the northernmost subridge of the Metacomet 
Ridge, and is surrounded by hills, with the town center lying on an elevated 
point above the rivers. Like most of New England, Greenfield has a humid 
continental climate, exactly on the border between Köppen Dfa and Dfb with 
its warmest-month (July) mean of 71.6 °F (22.0 °C). with cold, snowy winters 
and warm, humid summers. Extreme temperatures range from 100 °F (37.8 °C), 
recorded on July 22, 1926, and August 26, 1948,[8][9] to −30 °F (−34.4 °C), 
recorded on January 22, 1961.[10] Precipitation is abundant and well distributed 
(every month except February over 3 inches) and averages 41.3 inches per 
year. Greenfield lies at the junction of four highways. Interstate 91 travels 
north and south through the western stretch of the city and is duplexed 
for a 3-mile (5 km) stretch with Massachusetts Route 2. Route 2, which 
follows the rough path of (and is nicknamed after) the Mohawk Trail, enters 
over the Fall River as a surface road before becoming a limited-access 
highway until its concurrence with I-91. Once it leaves the interstate, 
Route 2 becomes a surface road again. Between the start of the limited 
access section of Route 2 and its split from I-91 at Exit 24, the Mohawk 
Trail follows Massachusetts Route 2A, which uses Route 2's former right 
of way through the center of Greenfield. At the town center, Route 2A meets 
the duplexed U.S. Route 5 and Massachusetts Route 10, which comes over 
the Deerfield River in the south before heading northward through town, 
with another interchange along the highway portion of Route 2. Greenfield 
lies at the junction of two rail lines, an east–west line heading from 
the northern points of Worcester County towards the Hoosac Tunnel and Albany, 
New York, and the north–south line heading from Springfield in the south 
towards Vermont in the north. Both lines are owned and operated by Pan 
Am Railways. Passenger rail service resumed in Greenfield on December 29, 
2014, with the rerouting of Amtrak's Vermonter. The station platform in 
Greenfield is located behind the Olver Transit Center. The former Greenfield 
train station (torn down in 1966) was located across the tracks from the 
current train platform, in the present day Energy Park. The town is served 
by the Peter Pan and Greyhound bus lines and is the hub of the Franklin 
Regional Transit Authority (FRTA), whose local service extends from Bernardston 
to Northampton and from Orange to Charlemont. The John W. Olver Transit 
Center is the hub for FRTA bus service, as well as the local depot for 
Peter Pan and Greyhound intercity service.[12] MAX provides intercity bus 
service to Fitchburg, Worcester and Boston, with intermediate stops.[13] 
The nearest general aviation airport is located in the Turners Falls section 
of Montague, and the nearest national air service is at Bradley International 
Airport in Windsor Locks, Connecticut. See also: Greenfield (CDP), Massachusetts 
By the 2010 census, the population had decreased to 17,456. Greenfield, 
as the only community in the county with a population over 10,000, is the 
largest community by population or population density in the county. It 
is also the smallest mainland county seat in the Commonwealth, as only 
the island towns of Edgartown and Nantucket are smaller. As of the census[25] 
of 2000, there had been 18,168 people, 7,939 households, and 4,374 families 
residing in the city. The population density was 836.2 people per square 
mile (322.8/km²). There were 8,301 housing units at an average density 
of 382.1 per square mile (147.5/km²). The racial makeup of the city was 
93.39% White, 1.34% Black or African American, 0.32% Native American, 1.10% 
Asian, 0.02% Pacific Islander, 1.41% from other races, and 2.43% from two 
or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 3.54% of the population. 
There were 7,939 households out of which 26.1% had children under the age 
of 18 living with them, 38.6% were married couples living together, 12.7% 
had a female householder with no husband present, and 44.9% were non-families. 
36.9% of all households were made up of individuals and 13.6% had someone 
living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size 
was 2.19 and the average family size was 2.88. In the town the population 
was spread out with 21.9% under the age of 18, 8.4% from 18 to 24, 28.7% 
from 25 to 44, 23.5% from 45 to 64, and 17.5% who were 65 years of age 
or older. The median age was 40 years. For every 100 females there were 
88.9 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 85.4 males. 
The median income for a household in the town was $33,110, and the median 
income for a family was $46,412. Males had a median income of $33,903 versus 
$26,427 for females. The per capita income for the town was $18,830. About 
11.4% of families and 14.0% of the population were below the poverty line, 
including 19.2% of those under age 18 and 11.1% of those age 65 or over. 
Greenfield is one of fourteen Massachusetts municipalities that have applied 
for, and been granted, city forms of government but wish to retain "The 
town of” in their official names.[26] Since the charter change in 2003 
Greenfield has been governed by a town council and a town manager. As of 
2014[update], the town council consists of four at-large councilors and 
nine councilors elected by precinct. The other town boards are appointed, 
with the exception of the seven-member school committee, which consists 
of the mayor plus six members elected at-large. Greenfield's first mayor, 
Christine Forgey, served until 2009 when she was defeated in a primary 
election. Greenfield's second mayor, Bill Martin, took second place in 
the 2009 primary as a write-in candidate and went on to win the general 
election in June. Martin's tenure began with a formal inauguration ceremony, 
the city's first, which also featured a mayoral fanfare, Long Live Our 
Mayor, written for the occasion in the style of Hail to the Chief. At the 
inauguration, Martin read a proclamation declaring July 1 as "Inauguration 
Day" in all following years. In Greenfield, the Mayor appoints most of 
the members of the various city boards, with the city council approving 
appointments. The mayor also serves as a voting member of the school committee, 
but is forbidden to serve as its chairman or vice-chair. In addition, the 
mayor sits as an ex officio non-voting member on all the other city boards. 
The Town Council[28] consists of 13 members: four "Councilors at Large" 
and nine "Precinct Councilors" elected to represent each of the nine voting 
precincts. As of 2016[update], Brickett Allis is the Council President, 
and Isaac Mass is the Vice-President. Greenfield operates its own police 
and fire departments. As of 2014[update], ambulance service is provided 
under a contract with the local hospital system. The town is also patrolled 
by the Second (Shelburne Falls) Barracks of Troop "B" of the Massachusetts 
State Police.[29] It runs a sizeable public works department and is the 
home base of the regional waste management system. The Greenfield Public 
Library is one of the larger libraries in the area, and is connected to 
the regional library network. Greenfield also operates numerous municipal 
parks and recreation areas including a town swimming center. As county 
seat, Greenfield is home to many different state offices, including courthouses 
and one of the offices of the Northwest District Attorney, Dave Sullivan. 
The Franklin County Sheriff is based in Greenfield and operates the Franklin 
County Jail at the corner of Elm and Allen streets. The city also has the 
central post office for the "013" series of ZIP codes, which extends through 
Franklin County and several towns in Worcester County. Greenfield is home 
to the privately run Baystate Franklin Medical Center, which serves much 
of the northern Pioneer Valley. Greenfield is part of the Second Berkshire 
district of the Massachusetts House of Representatives, which includes 
sixteen cities and towns in Berkshire and Franklin Counties. Paul Mark 
is the State Representative. In the Massachusetts Senate, the town is part 
of the Hampshire and Franklin district, which includes much of eastern 
Franklin and Hampshire counties. State Senator Stanley C. Rosenberg represents 
this district.[30] Nationally, Greenfield is represented in the United 
States House of Representatives as part of Massachusetts's 2nd congressional 
district, and is represented in the 113th United States Congress by James 
McGovern. As of 2014[update], Massachusetts is represented in the United 
States Senate by Senators Elizabeth Warren and Edward Markey. Greenfield 
operates its own public school system for the town's 1,700 students. Greenfield 
operates the Academy of Early Learning at North Parish for pre-kindergarten 
students, three elementary schools - the Four Corners School to the north, 
the Federal Street School centrally, and the Newton Elementary School to 
the west - for students from kindergarten through third grade, the Greenfield 
Middle School for students from fourth through seventh grades, and Greenfield 
High School for eighth through twelfth grades. Greenfield's athletic teams 
are nicknamed the "Green Wave", and their school colors are green and white. 
Greenfield operates the Poet Seat School, an alternative middle and high 
school for special needs students. On July 9, 2009, Greenfield's local 
school committee approved creation of the Virtual Academy or "MAVA @ Greenfield", 
the only kindergarten-through-twelfth grade distance learning school of 
its kind in the state.[citation needed] The MAVA program is also expected 
to provide expanded course offerings to students in the traditional public 
schools. Greenfield is also home to the Four Rivers Charter Public School, 
which serves students in grades 7-12. Greenfield's oldest private school 
is the Stoneleigh-Burnham School, a private 7th-12th grade boarding school 
for girls. The Center School, established in 1981, serves students from 
preschool through eighth grade with a progressive approach to education. 
As of 2014[update] there are no religious schools in Greenfield; the Cornerstone 
Christian School closed in 2013, and Holy Trinity School, a K-8 parochial 
school, closed in 2011. Greenfield is home to Greenfield Community College, 
which serves the northern Pioneer Valley and offers some courses to Greenfield 
High students seeking advanced learning opportunities. The nearest state 
university is the University of Massachusetts Amherst. There are also several 
private colleges, including members of the Five Colleges and Seven Sisters, 
in the region, as well as Keene State College in Keene, New Hampshire. 
Greenfield has five FM radio stations, one FM Translator, two AM radio 
stations, one cable television station, and one daily local newspaper. 
FM stations ¹ - WMCB-LP/WLPV-LP operate under a "share time" agreement 
with the U.S. Federal Communications Commission. AM stations Cable stations 
