Greg F. Anderson (born February 1966) is a current personal trainer, best 
known for his work with Barry Bonds, and links with BALCO. When Anderson 
was 10 years old, his father died after being shot during a gambling dispute. 
Anderson and Barry Bonds began a lifelong friendship when the two played 
middle school baseball together in California. Bonds flourished as the 
team's star, while Anderson struggled to get playing time. In college, 
Anderson began an obsession with weight-lifting and spent long hours in 
the gym. He played college baseball at Fort Hays State University in Hays, 
Kansas with moderate success, but was advised by his coach to find a career 
outside of professional baseball. Soon after, Anderson moved back to California 
where he spent most of his time at the World Gym, now known as Diesel Fitness, 
only a few blocks away from BALCO.[citation needed] Anderson began providing 
Bonds with performance-enhancing drugs in 1998. He was also linked in this 
regard to both Jason Giambi and Gary Sheffield, through his connections 
with Bonds. Despite this information, the Giants, allegedly in order to 
appease Bonds, did not bar Anderson from Giants facilities. On July 15, 
2005, Anderson, in a deal with federal prosecutors, plead guilty to conspiracy 
to distribute steroids and to money laundering.[1] On October 18, 2005, 
he was sentenced by U.S. District Court Judge Susan Illston to three months 
in prison and three months home confinement.[2][3] Anderson and his steroid 
dealings are referred to in the book Game of Shadows, which documents the 
steroid use of many Major League Baseball players and other notable athletes. 
On July 5, 2006, Anderson was found in contempt of court by U.S. District 
Judge William Alsup for refusing to testify before a federal grand jury 
investigating perjury accusations against San Francisco Giants' player 
Barry Bonds. Bonds appeared before a grand jury investigating the BALCO 
steroids case in December 2003 and is reported to have denied knowingly 
using performance-enhancing drugs.[4] Anderson, denied bail, was immediately 
sent to the Federal Correctional Institution in Dublin, California. Anderson's 
attorney, Mark Geragos, said he would file an appeal based on his assertion 
that the subpoena to testify violated Anderson's plea bargain agreement 
in the BALCO case.[5] On July 20, 2006, Anderson was released when the 
grand jury's term expired without indicting Bonds. However, Anderson was 
immediately subpoenaed to testify before a new grand jury that took up 
the case.[6] Anderson's attorney, Mark Geragos, stated that Anderson would 
still refuse to testify, and on August 28, Anderson was again found in 
contempt of court and sentenced to prison.[7] On November 15, 2007, a federal 
judge ordered Anderson released from prison. This order came just hours 
after Bonds was indicted by a federal grand jury on 4 counts of perjury 
and 1 count of obstruction of justice.[8][9] On January 28, 2009 twenty 
federal agents raided the home of Anderson's mother-in-law; both she and 
Anderson's wife are the targets of a tax probe. Anderson's attorney Mark 
Geragos says that he believes the probe is in retaliation for Anderson's 
continued refusal to say if he will testify in the upcoming 2009 Bonds 
perjury trial. Federal prosecutors have asked the presiding judge, U.S. 
District Judge Susan Illston, to find Anderson in contempt of court and 
have him detained in federal prison for the length of the upcoming trial. 
[10] On March 22, 2011 Anderson was reincarcerated in the Federal Correctional 
Institution, Dublin on fresh contempt charges for refusing to testify at 
Bond's ongoing perjury trial.[11] He was released as of April 8, 2011. 
