Greg Gumbel (born May 3, 1946) is an American television sportscaster. 
He is best known for his various assignments on the CBS network (most notably, 
the National Football League and NCAA basketball). The older brother of 
news and sportscaster Bryant Gumbel, he became the first African-American 
(and Creole) announcer to call play-by-play of a major sports championship 
in the United States when he announced Super Bowl XXXV for the CBS network 
in 2001. He is of Creole ancestry. Gumbel is currently the host of Inside 
the NFL (since 2014) on Showtime and NFL Network. He works alongside Boomer 
Esiason, Phil Simms, Ed Reed and Brandon Marshall on the program. Gumbel 
was born in New Orleans, Louisiana, the first child of parents Richard 
Gumbel, a judge, and Rhea Alice LeCesne. As a young man, Gumbel grew up 
on Chicago's South Side, where he attended and graduated from De La Salle 
Institute. Before becoming a broadcaster, Gumbel graduated with a B.A. 
degree in English from Loras College in Dubuque, Iowa where he also played 
on the baseball team. He also has two sisters, Renee Gumbel-Farrahi and 
Rhonda Gumbel-Thomas. In 1973, Greg's brother Bryant Gumbel informed him 
that a Chicago TV station (WMAQ-TV) was auditioning for a sports announcer. 
At the time, Greg was selling hospital supplies in Detroit. He ultimately 
got the job and worked there for seven years. The sportscaster he replaced, 
Dennis Swanson, went on to become president of ABC Sports. Prior to his 
rising to prominence at CBS, Gumbel worked for MSG, ESPN, and WFAN radio 
in New York City. At ESPN, he anchored the show SportsCenter and did "play-by-play" 
for early NBA games. On MSG, Gumbel served as a backup announcer for Marv 
Albert on New York Knicks broadcasts as well as providing coverage for 
college basketball. When MSG signed a huge contract to broadcast New York 
Yankees games in 1989, Gumbel served as host of the pregame and postgame 
shows. In addition to his MSG duties, he was the host of the first radio 
morning show on radio station WFAN. Gumbel's CBS career began with part-time 
work as an NFL announcer in 1988. Also in 1989, Gumbel began announcing 
college basketball as well. He became host of The NFL Today (alongside 
Terry Bradshaw) for the 1990 to 1993 seasons. He also anchored CBS' coverage 
of Major League Baseball, college football, and, in 1999, CBS' coverage 
for the Daytona 500. Besides his hosting duties, Gumbel provided play-by-play 
for the NBA (alongside Quinn Buckner), Major League Baseball including 
the 1993 American League Championship Series (alongside Jim Kaat), and 
College World Series baseball. He was the prime time anchor for the 1994 
Winter Olympic Games from Lillehammer, Norway and co-anchor for the weekday 
morning broadcasts of the 1992 Winter Olympics from Albertville, France. 
Gumbel moved to NBC in 1994 following CBS' losses of the NFL and Major 
League Baseball broadcasting contracts (Gumbel's last on-air assignment 
for CBS was providing play-by-play for the College World Series[1]). While 
at NBC, Gumbel hosted NBC's coverage of the 1994 Major League Baseball 
All-Star Game. He also did play-by-play for the 1995 Major League Baseball 
National League Division Series and National League Championship Series 
(on both occasions, teaming with Joe Morgan), did play-by-play for The 
NBA on NBC, hosted NBC's daytime coverage of the 1996 Summer Olympics from 
Atlanta, Georgia, hosted the 1995 World Championships of Figure Skating, 
and served as the studio host for The NFL on NBC. Gumbel left NBC after 
the network broadcast of Super Bowl XXXII to return to CBS. His first major 
assignment was to serve as studio host for the network's coverage of college 
basketball, including the NCAA men's basketball tournament, something he 
continues to do to this day. As CBS had just acquired the rights to NBC's 
previous NFL package, Gumbel joined the broadcast team as the lead announcer 
with fellow NBC alumnus Phil Simms as his color man. Gumbel was the lead 
announcer for the NFL on CBS between 1998 and 2003, calling Super Bowls 
XXXV and XXXVIII. For the 2004 NFL season, Gumbel traded positions with 
Jim Nantz as host of The NFL Today with Nantz taking over as lead announcer. 
At the end of the 2005 NFL season, Gumbel was replaced as studio host of 
The NFL Today by James Brown. Gumbel returned to the broadcast booth as 
the #2 play-by-play man, replacing Dick Enberg, alongside color man Dan 
Dierdorf until Dierdorf retired after the 2013–14 NFL season. Greg, his 
wife Marcy, brother Bryant, and Greg's married daughter Michelle all reside 
in the Fort Lauderdale, Florida area. In 1999, Gumbel refused to attend 
a NASCAR banquet honoring Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas, on the 
basis that he disagreed with Thomas' positions on political issues.[2] 
He has regularly appeared on Howard Stern's radio show.[3] Along similar 
lines, Gumbel said of Rush Limbaugh, "I find him someone whose words and 
opinions I can do without."[4] Gumbel is the third man to serve as both 
host and play-by-play announcer for Super Bowls (the first two were Dick 
Enberg and Al Michaels respectively). He hosted Super Bowls XXVI, XXX, 
and XXXII before calling Super Bowls XXXV and XXXVIII. Jim Nantz became 
the fourth man to do so after he called Super Bowl XLI for CBS. During 
his tenure as the chief anchor of The NFL Today, he served alongside co-anchors 
Dan Marino, Shannon Sharpe, and Boomer Esiason. The group was known to 
