Gregory Charles Papa (born 1962)[1] He is an American sportscaster working 
in the San Francisco Bay Area. He has been broadcasting for the [2] Oakland 
Raiders, Oakland Athletics, Golden State Warriors and San Francisco Giants. 
He is best known as the radio play-by-play caller for the Raiders and the 
host of Chronicle Live on CSN Bay Area. He and Garry St. Jean do the in-studio 
analysis for all the Golden State Warriors regular season games on CSN 
Bay Area. He also co-hosts The Afternoon Delight with Dan Dibley mid-days 
on 95.7 The Game, a FM Bay Area radio station. He is not related to New 
York Giants radio broadcaster, Bob Papa. Papa is a three-time California 
Sportscaster of the Year Award winner. After graduating from Syracuse University, 
Papa was a member of the Indiana Pacers' television and radio broadcasting 
team from 1984 to 1986. Then, he moved west and from 1986 to 1997, he was 
the radio announcer for the Golden State Warriors (including the famous 
"Sleepy Floyd Game," where Warrior Sleepy Floyd scored 51 points against 
the Lakers in a playoff game). From 1997 to 2000, Papa became the lead 
announcer on the San Antonio Spurs telecasts. During this span, he was 
also the television play-by-play announcer for the Oakland A's with Ray 
Fosse from 1989 to 2003.[2] Papa is the current play-by-play announcer 
for the Raiders on KGMZ 95.7 FM radio, alongside his color commentator, 
former Raider coach Tom Flores. His work is very much in the tradition 
of his predecessor, Bill King. Like King, his touchdown calls are punctuated 
by "TOUCHDOWN, RRRRAID-ERS!!!" Papa's best calls to date arguably are: 
Tyrone Wheatley's 26-yard run in the Raiders 1999 finale against the Kansas 
City Chiefs at Arrowhead Stadium ("Wheatley won't go down!!!") along with 
describing the events during the Tuck Rule game,[3] when the Raiders seemingly 
had won a 2001 playoff game during a snow storm at New England after forcing 
a late fumble, only to see referee Walt Coleman reverse the call after 
consulting instant replay. The Patriots went on to win the historic, controversial 
contest in overtime. In 2008, Papa hosted 35 of the 50 scheduled editions 
of "Giants Pregame Live" and all 65 of the "Giants Postgame Live" shows 
on Comcast SportsNet Bay Area. He occasionally announced several of the 
Giants' games on TV and radio when Jon Miller was on assignment at ESPN.[2] 
When Dave Flemming's microphone went dead when the ball was in the air 
for what turned out to be Barry Bonds' 715th career home run on May 28, 
2006, Papa took over the broadcast, apologized to listeners, and explained 
what happened on the field. Since the 2011-12 season, along with Gary St. 
Jean, Greg Papa has hosted both "Warriors Pregame Live" and "Warriors Postgame 
Live" on CSN Bay Area. The duo also provide in studio analysis at half-time 
for the station's coverage of Warriors regular season games. Papa also 
does work for Comcast SportsNet California, notably for broadcasts of the 
California Golden Bears football and basketball teams. He has also done 
San Jose Stealth and San Francisco Dragons lacrosse games. Papa is also 
formerly host of Chronicle Live, a nightly Bay Area sports talk show covering 
all Bay Area sports. He was also the play-by-play announcer for Hardball 
6: 2000 Edition and some of his Oakland A's broadcast audio was in the 
2011 film Moneyball. Greg resides in Danville, California with his wife, 
the former Angela Garay. They have four children: Alexandra, Danielle, 
Erika and Nicolas.[2] His brother, the late Gary Papa, was a long time 
