Greystones (Irish: Na Clocha Liatha) is a coastal town and seaside resort 
in County Wicklow, Ireland. It lies on Ireland's east coast, 8 km (5.0 mi) 
south of Bray and 27 km (17 mi) south of Dublin, with a population of about 
17,000. The town is bordered by the Irish Sea to the east, Bray Head to 
the north and the Wicklow Mountains to the west. The town was named after 
a half mile or one-kilometre stretch of grey stones between two beaches 
on the sea front. The harbour area and the Greystones railway station are 
at the northern and southern ends respectively. The North Beach, which 
begins at the harbour, is a stony beach, and some of its length is overlooked 
by the southern cliffs of Bray Head, which are subject to erosion. The 
South Beach is a broad sandy beach about one kilometre long. It is a Blue 
Flag beach and receives many visitors and tourists, mainly in the summer. 
In 2008, Greystones was named as the world's 'most liveable community' 
at the LivCom Awards in China.[1] Greystones is located south of the site 
of an ancient castle of the Barony of Rathdown. There was a hamlet which, 
like the castle, was known as Rathdown, and which appeared on a 1712 map. 
This site occupied an area now known as the Grove, north of Greystones 
harbour, but only the ruins of a chapel, St. Crispin's Cell, survive. Greystones 
is a much more recent settlement and is first mentioned in Topographia 
Hibernica, a 1795 publication. Here it is described as a "noted fishing 
place four miles beyond Bray." In the early 19th century, there were some 
families scattered around the harbour, Blacklion, Windgates, Killincarrig 
and Rathdown. Delgany was a more substantial and longer established village. 
However, Greystones was put on the map with the coming of the railway in 
1855, a difficult undertaking which was performed in consultation with 
Isambard Kingdom Brunel, the famous engineer. The railway station was built 
on the line dividing the properties of two landowners: the La Touche family 
of Bellevue House (now in ruins, near Delgany), and the Hawkins-Whitshed 
family of Killincarrig House (which is now Greystones Golf Club). It provided 
links with Bray and Dublin, and left room for development on the adjoining 
estates. In the latter half of the 19th century, under the ownership of 
William Robert La Touche, Greystones' development gathered momentum. To 
the north of the station, Church Road, Victoria Road and Trafalgar Road 
were laid out, and many houses were built in the years following the arrival 
of the railway. Following her father's death, Elizabeth Hawkins-Whitshed 
was the sole inheritor of his property. In 1879, she married Frederick 
Gustavus Burnaby; a soldier, politician and traveller. Burnaby died in 
battle in 1885 and Elizabeth remarried twice, but the property continued 
to be known as the Burnaby Estate. In the early 20th century, the Burnabys 
began to expand the town on their side of the station, and the roads and 
houses of the Burnaby were developed and the population grew considerably. 
The names of these two families remain well known today, with many roads 
and housing estates bearing their names. Between 1885 and 1897, the people 
of Greystones campaigned for a harbour to aid the fishing industry and 
imports such as coal. The pier, dock, sea wall and boat-slip remain but 
have endured substantial damage. In the early 20th century, the town felt 
the effects of coastal erosion (which is still a major problem); the loss 
of fields and most of the houses on the North Beach Road, and the costly 
inland relocation of the railway have all resulted. In 1968, the old Kish 
lighthouse foundation was added to the end of the pier. At the end of World 
War II, cars and petrol became widely available, allowing Greystones to 
gradually expand, filling in the space between itself and outlying areas 
such as Blacklion, Killincarrig and Delgany. However, the popularity of 
the railway declined; its very existence being in jeopardy during the 1980s, 
as government cutbacks reduced the service to just a few trains per day. 
The 1990s brought a revival with the arrival of the electrified DART from 
Bray, and a much more frequent schedule. Greystones has experienced a huge 
increase in its population since the 1970s with the construction of several 
large housing estates. A new development at Charlesland, just south of 
the town, includes over 1,000 dwelling units. As of the 2006 census the 
population of Greystones, including town and environs, stands at 14,569 
making it the second largest town in the county after Bray.[2] Along with 
the housing developments, road networks and facilities have been improved 
to cater for the growth. The road between Greystones and Bray has been 
widened and realigned. A new dual carriageway link road (R774) connecting 
Greystones to the N11 has been completed. Construction of a full interchange 
with the N11 has also been completed. According to the 2006 census, Greystones 
has the largest Church of Ireland presence as a proportion of the population 
(9.77%). Greystones is accessible from the N11 Dublin-Wexford road; a new 
interchange (Junction 11 on the N11) constructed near Charlesland connects 
with the town via a dual carriageway. Greystones railway station, which 
opened on 30 October 1855,[3] is the southern terminus of the DART railway 
line, a service which connects thirty stations along Dublin's east coast. 
Iarnród Éireann diesel Commuter and InterCity trains also serve Greystones, 
linking the town with Wicklow, Arklow, Gorey, Wexford, and Rosslare Europort 
to the south, and Dublin's Connolly Station to the north. Greystones is 
served by the 84, 184 and 84X Dublin Bus routes whilst route 702 Aircoach 
service starting at Charlesland links the area with Dublin Airport. Bray 
and Greystones are linked by a Cliff Walk, which follows the route of the 
railway line around Bray Head. The walk is 6 km long and takes approximately 
two hours.[4] Greystones is part of the South European Parliament constituency 
and the Wicklow Dáil Éireann constituency. In local government Greystones 
has six councillors on Wicklow County Council, representing the Greystones 
Municipal District. The following elected representatives are based in 
and around Greystones and the Greystones Municipal District: T.D.'s: County 
Councillors: This was to be a €300 million redevelopment scheme for the 
harbour, to be built by the Sispar consortium (Sispar is a joint venture 
consortium of Sisk and Michael Cotter's Park Developments) in a public-private 
partnership with Wicklow County Council. This has been and remains a major 
topical issue in the town. Objections revolved around the privatisation 
of public beach front land without broad public agreement,[5] but work 
started. The development was to include a new harbour, 341 apartments, 
a 230 berth marina, a new public plaza and facilities for local sporting 
clubs.[6] On the granting of planning permission, 6,210 submissions were 
received by An Bord Pleanála on initial plans, of which more than 6,200 
were objections.[7] Many of the objections came from outside County Wicklow, 
according to a spokesman for Wicklow County Council.[8] Many objected to 
specifics of the plan while approving the general idea. An oral hearing 
was held and the board requested the developers to make certain changes 
which resulted in the plans being scaled down by approximately 10%.[9] 
Some 3,700 objections were made on these updated plans. On 9 August 2007, 
the board approved the final plans, while imposing 13 conditions on construction 
works, including the retention of public access to the Cliff Walk during 
the development period, strict guidelines in relation to dust suppression, 
the re-use of demolition materials, and limitations on the hours of operation 
and noise levels. The board also over-ruled an earlier inspector's report, 
instead permitting an old unlicensed landfill to remain beside the new 
apartments.[9][10] In February 2010, it was announced that development 
of the marina would be paused indefinitely due to conditions in the Irish 
property market.[11] After the development plans stalled, the loans attached 
to the development were transferred to NAMA. Sispar insisted that it needed 
funding from NAMA to finish the project.[12] In September 2012 it was reported 
that NAMA had written off €50m owed for the troubled development of Greystones 
Harbour. It appeared that it was not the Sispar consortium but Sisk alone 
that controlled the loans.[13] Greystones and its environs (including Delgany) 
are home to several celebrities including: The town is home to a successful 
association football club, Greystones United,[15] which is based at Woodlands 
near the south beach. GUFC is the largest schoolboy/girl football club 
in the country, and has in excess of 700 members.[15] Perhaps the club's 
most famous alumnus is current Irish international Paul McShane. Another 
successful club, Greystones AFC, is located at 'The Arch Field' just beside 
the railway bridge at the harbour. Five of their players have represented 
Ireland at various levels. Ian Horan, Chris Mason and Stephen McCann have 
represented the Irish Intermediate team and Stephen Roche and Richie O'Hanlon 
have represented the Irish Colleges team. The Saturday and Sunday sides 
both play in the top division of the Leinster Senior League St. Kilian's 
Badminton Club plays in Shoreline Leisure Center on Mill Road every Thursday. 
Their website may be found at St. Kilian's Badminton Club Greystones is 
home to the Greystones Mariners Baseball Club, catering to all ages. The 
Mariners adult team compete nationally and several of the players represent 
Ireland on the National Baseball Team. A lawn bowling club is located at 
Burnaby Park. Cricket returned to Greystones in 2012 with the formation 
of Greystones Cricket, a vibrant and family-oriented club who currently 
practice (nets) at Greystones RFC and play their home matches at the Greystones 
United F.C. grounds. They have three senior men's teams and one ladies 
team playing in the Leinster Cricket Union competitions, a taverners and 
two junior teams. Éire Óg Greystones GAA club is located on the Mill Road, 
at the south end of the town. The club has recently undergone a major reconstruction 
which saw improvements made to the club house, pitches, lighting and parking 
facilities. It is now one of the most used club facilities in the Greystones 
area. There are two 18-hole golf courses and a driving range within the 
town. Greystones Golf Club was founded in 1895 and allows fine views over 
the town, the countryside, and the Irish Sea. Charlesland Golf Club is 
newer, flatter, and located by the sea. These venues can be reached by 
walking from the train station. There are other courses within short driving 
distance (less than eight km) at Delgany, Glen of the Downs, Kilcoole, 
Druids Glen (just outside Kilcoole), Bray and Woodbrook. Greystones has 
many marine based clubs including sailing and wind-surfing, angling, diving, 
rowing and Sea Scouts. Greystones rowing club was established 1920 and 
still going today. Shore angling for cod and plaice at the beaches and 
the harbour attracts many people, especially during the summer. Swimming 
is popular in warmer weather, especially on the south beach. The coast 
is also suitable for jogging and hiking. Greystones Lawn Tennis Club is 
a vibrant, active club with 12 outdoor floodlit courts and a large clubhouse. 
Located on the Mill Road, on the south end of the town near the rugby and 
GAA clubs, it regularly hosts regional and national competitions, has a 
large number of tennis activities and coaching opportunities for children 
and adults and runs a number of social events throughout the year. Greystones 
has town twinning agreements with: Greystones has variety of Christian 
denominations in the locality, with most divisions of mainstream Christianity 
represented. There is a Roman Catholic,[17] a Presbyterian,[18] an Anglican 
(Church of Ireland),[19] an Evangelical,[20] and an Evangelical Armenian[21] 
church in Greystones. Carraig Eden Theological College is the premier Pentecostal 
centre for theological study and ministerial training in Ireland, offering 
BTh and MTh degrees in Applied Theology[22] The majority of residents are 
Roman Catholic, but Greystones is the town with the highest population 
of Protestants in the Republic of Ireland with 9.77% of residents claiming 
to be Church of Ireland (according to the 2006 census). Greystones has 
seven primary schools: The town also has a Roman Catholic secondary school: 
A Church of Ireland, co-educational Secondary School has opened its doors 
in 2014 in Greystones; Temple Carrig School. Nevertheless, it is relatively 
common for local young people to attend schools in neighbouring localities. 
There is a Spanish school, School SEK-Dublin, in Belvedere Hall in Windgates. 
Wicklow County Council manages a Carnegie library opposite Burnaby Park 
on the main street (Church Road). Greystones has a number of entertainment 
facilities; Charlesland Sports and Recreation Park which include a skate 
park, several all-weather football and basketball courts and a playground.[23] 
A large number of gigs organised by local independent youths take place, 
played by mostly local bands although international punk and hardcore acts 
have played in the town. The Greystones Theatre, suitable for drama, dance, 
concerts and other events, is located in the town centre and is supplemented 
by Greystones Studios, which provide classes, performance space, practice 
rooms and AV studios.[24] Greystones is the home to several local businesses 
that were founded in the town and are now recognised nationally. The Happy 
Pear organic food company,[26][27] headquartered at its restaurant on the 
Main Street (Church Road); Goldfish.ie[28][29][30] the telecoms firm headquartered 
on Church Road; and RTÉ Dragons' Den-winning company Smart Storage.[31][32] 
Also based in Greystones is international bottle top manufacturer United 
Caps, which has 6 production plants and 16 sales' offices across Europe. 
