Griffith Stadium was a sports stadium that stood in Washington, D.C., from 
1911 to 1965, between Georgia Avenue and 5th Street, and between W Street 
and Florida Avenue NW. An earlier wooden baseball park had been built on 
the same site in 1891. It was called Boundary Field or National Park, as 
its occupants were then known primarily by the nickname Nationals. This 
park was destroyed by a fire in March 1911 and replaced by a steel and 
concrete structure, also at first called National Park; it was renamed 
for Washington Senators owner Clark Griffith in 1920. The stadium was home 
to the American League Senators from 1911 through 1960, and to an expansion 
team of the same name for their first season in 1961. The venue hosted 
the All-Star Game in 1937 and 1956, as well as World Series games in 1924, 
1925, and 1933. It served as home for the Negro league Homestead Grays 
during the 1940s. It was also home to the Washington Redskins of the National 
Football League for 24 seasons, from the time they transferred from Boston 
in 1937 through the 1960 season. In 1911, William Howard Taft began the 
tradition of presidents throwing out the ceremonial first pitch of the 
baseball season at Griffith Stadium. The ballpark was demolished in 1965 
and the Howard University Hospital now occupies the site. On March 17, 
1911, Boundary Field, also known as National Park and American League Park 
II, was destroyed by a fire started by a plumber's blowtorch.[1][2] This 
left the owners of the Washington Senators in a difficult situation, due 
to the fact that spring training had already begun and opening day was 
less than a month away. Thomas C. Noyes, president of the Senators, gained 
approval from the club's board of directors to build a new ballpark with 
a steel grandstand on the same site as Boundary Field. The quick construction 
of the ballpark was reported by The Washington Post: "Day and night the 
chanting of the negro laborers has been heard in the vicinity, like Aladdin's 
palace, the structure rose as if by magic."[2] Opening Day 1911, the grandstand 
was sufficiently stable to host President William Howard Taft and the Boston 
Red Sox, as well as 16,000 fans.[3] Construction of Griffith Stadium continued 
while the Senators were on the road, and was not completed until July 24, 
1911.[4] The stadium was laid out at an angle within its block in the Washington 
street grid. Thus it was over 400 feet (120 m) down the left field line 
(east) to the bleachers (though this distance was shortened in later years 
by the construction of an inner fence). The fence also took an unusual 
right-angled jut into right-center field where a large tree and several 
apartment buildings stood, due to the unwillingness of the owners of the 
tree and those nearby houses to sell to the Senators' owners during construction 
of the stadium. The right-field fence angled away from the infield sharply, 
which, in addition to a 30-foot (9 m) fence (to block the view from surrounding 
buildings) about 8 feet (2.4 m) inside the lower, outer wall, meant that 
relatively few home runs were hit at the stadium. The field's orientation 
was unorthodox, as center field was east-southeast of home plate, which 
made for difficult visibility for the fielders in the late afternoon sun; 
recommended alignment is east-northeast.[5] The elevation of the natural 
grass playing field was approximately 100 feet (30 m) above sea level. 
The Senators' groundskeepers maintained a downhill slope from home plate 
to first base, supposedly to help accelerate slow Washington batters. However, 
Griffith's groundskeepers were still adept at keeping a fine sod field 
that was "compared to that of the best golf courses." This was in sharp 
contrast to the unkempt field that can be seen in photographs of Griffith 
prior to 1923.[6] For many years, the right field grandstand wall served 
as the right-field foul line for the last 15 feet (4.6 m) before the foul 
pole, making it impossible to catch a ball there.[1] The 41-foot (12 m) 
tall, hand-operated scoreboard in right-center was in play, as was the 
National Bohemian beer sign, shaped like a bottle, 56 feet (17 m) above 
the playing field.[7] At one point in his youth, future MLB Commissioner 
Bowie Kuhn was the operator of the scoreboard.[2] The outfield seats (in 
fair territory) in left and center field butted up against 5th Street. 
The football field ran along the third base line. In the early 1920s, a 
trend began of fans flocking in great numbers to the stadium to see baseball's 
rising stars from opposing teams; when the New York Yankees came to Washington, 
the chance to see Babe Ruth brought large crowds to the ballpark.[6] Clark 
Griffith took advantage of this trend by making small improvements in the 
stadium in 1920 and 1921. These improvements included changing the main 
entrance of the park from Georgia Avenue to a refurbished one on Florida 
Ave., and spending $3,200 to build an office for himself beneath the grandstand.[6] 
After various other small improvements, on August 21, 1923, Griffith announced 
plans to greatly expand and refurbish the ballpark.[6] The stadium, built 
in 1911, was hastily constructed and provided minimal seating and other 
features when compared with other ballparks. The planned expansion was 
reported to cost $100,000, and expand the seating capacity to 50,000, a 
number that wound up being 32,000.[8] The new seating came from the complete 
rebuilding of the left-field grandstand into a double-decked tier. The 
new upper section was wider than the old, resulting in a roofline that 
was considerably higher than the roof of the main grandstand, leaving a 
visible 15-foot gap between the two.[6][9] At that point the wooden left-field 
bleachers were also replaced, by a large concrete deck that ran from the 
foul pole across left field and into center field. The first-base pavilion 
remained single-decked. The first attempt at a high wall was constructed 
across right field. By the 1930s the right field pavilion had been double-decked, 
and the angling right field wall and its scoreboard were reconstructed 
to align with the low right field wall, about 8 feet inside of it. This 
also resulted in the unique inward-pointing 90° angle in center field. 
Both versions of the tall fence had the effect of keeping the neighbors 
in the adjacent row houses from watching the games for free. Lights were 
installed for the 1941 season. The Senators played their first home night 
game on May 28.[10] The right-field fence was originally covered in various 
billboard advertisements, but in later years was painted a solid dark color. 
A bullpen area was built in right center field behind a short fence, providing 
a new target for left-handed batters. In the mid-1950s, an inner fence 
was erected across left and center field, to reduce the home run distances 
by 10 to 20 feet (3 to 6 m). This inner fence stayed in place through the 
ballpark's final season, 1961. Every president of the United States from 
William Howard Taft to John F. Kennedy threw a ceremonial first pitch at 
least once at Griffith. The Senators even constructed a special presidential 
box near the first-base dugout for the annual ritual.[12] Franklin D. Roosevelt 
was a good friend of Clark Griffith, and had attended games at the stadium 
since his days as Assistant Secretary of the Navy in the 1910s. When FDR 
returned to Washington in 1933 as president, Griffith visited the White 
House early every season to give Roosevelt season passes; he also constructed 
a special ramp at the ballpark that accommodated the president's special 
mobility needs after his bout with polio in 1921.[2] On Opening Day in 
1941, Roosevelt stood up in the stadium's presidential box on the arm of 
a military aide, and threw out the first pitch.[2] In 1942 Clark Griffith 
urged Roosevelt to keep baseball going during the war. Griffith took credit 
after Roosevelt's initial "Green Light letter", which allowed baseball 
to continue.[2] The distant fences were no problem for sluggers like Josh 
Gibson, Mickey Mantle, and the Senators' own youngster Harmon Killebrew. 
There have been only three reported instances of a player hitting a home 
run over the left field bleachers: once by Mantle and twice by Gibson.[13] 
Babe Ruth hit near-500-foot drives over the center and right-center walls 
on consecutive days in May 1921. In May 1949, Cleveland Indians outfielder 
Larry Doby smacked the then-longest home run ever hit at the stadium over 
the right-center field wall, and onto a rooftop well outside the ballpark. 
The shot was reported to have traveled over 500 feet (150 m), and Doby 
called it "the longest homer I've ever hit".[14] On April 17, 1953, Mantle 
hit one off Chuck Stobbs that was so impressive that someone tried to determine 
its flight with some precision, thus popularizing the term "Tape Measure 
Home Run". It was alleged to be 565 feet (172 m), although it bounced off 
the top of the back wall of the bleachers, adding some distance to its 
flight path.[15] Clark Griffith once said that Josh Gibson hit more home 
runs into Griffith Stadium's distant left-field bleachers than the entire 
American League.[1] Aside from some championship seasons in the early 1920s 
and 1930s, the Senators teams that played at Griffith Stadium were legendarily 
bad. The hapless Washington team became the butt of a well-known Vaudeville 
joke, "First in war, first in peace, and last in the American League", 
a twist on the famous Henry "Light Horse Harry" Lee eulogy of George Washington: 
"First in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts of his countrymen." 
(A similar phrasing was once used for the St. Louis Browns: "First in shoes, 
first in booze, and last in the American League.") Only one Washington, 
D.C., public high school baseball player ever hit a home run over the 30-foot-high 
"green monster–like" right field wall at Griffith Stadium—Bill Harrison 
of Coolidge High School in 1952. The stadium was still called Griffith 
Stadium in 1961, even though team owner Calvin Griffith had moved the original 
Senators club to the Twin Cities area of Minneapolis-St. Paul (becoming 
the Minnesota Twins), to be replaced in Washington by a new expansion team, 
also called the Senators (now the Texas Rangers). Griffith Stadium hosted 
numerous football events before the Redskins moved there in 1937.[6] It 
was the home of Georgetown Hoyas football from 1921 until 1950, George 
Washington Colonials football in the 1930s and 1940s, and Maryland Terrapins 
football in 1948.[13] The stadium was the host of an annual Thanksgiving 
Day game between Howard and Lincoln Universities, which was one of the 
most popular events during the year, drawing many African American alumni 
and fans from the surrounding neighborhoods.[6][16] One major reason for 
the stadium's early-1920s expansion was that Clark Griffith had envisioned 
the stadium hosting the annual Army–Navy football game, played every December.[6] 
Temporary seats were often placed in right field for football games at 
Griffith, with the gridiron stretching from left field to the first base 
line. The exceptional distance from home to the left-field area allowed 
plenty of room for the football field. The Redskins, previously based in 
Boston and named for the Boston Braves, moved their home to D.C. in time 
for the 1937 season. As Boston, they had won their division in 1936 and 
continued their winning ways in Washington, capturing their first NFL championship 
in that first season. They continued as perennial contenders all through 
the war years. Griffith Stadium was the location of 1940 and 1942 NFL Championship 
Games. The 1940 game was the 73–0 triumph by the Chicago Bears over the 
Redskins, the highest-scoring shutout game in the history of the NFL. The 
Championship Game in 1942 was essentially a rematch, with nearly the same 
players, and this time the Redskins upset the previously undefeated Bears, 
14–6. According to Richard Whittingham's history of the Chicago Bears (ISBN 
0671628852), George Preston Marshall, the owner of the Redskins, gave his 
team a pre-game pep talk that consisted simply of writing "73–0" on the 
chalkboard. During the Redskins' game on the afternoon of December 7, 1941, 
against the Philadelphia Eagles, an announcement was made over Griffith 
Stadium's public-address system commanding all of the American generals 
and admirals there to report to their duty stations. The Japanese attack 
on Pearl Harbor was not explicitly announced over the P.A. system; with 
no small, portable radios available in the 1940s, that left thousands of 
other spectators to be among the last Americans to learn of the Japanese 
attack. The Redskins won that game, their last game of the 1941 season, 
20-14. They finished the season with a record of six wins and five losses, 
in third place in the NFL Eastern Division. Although the Redskins enjoyed 
only one winning record at home (4–2 in 1956) during their final 13 seasons 
at Griffith, they still finished with an 81-58-6 overall record at the 
stadium over 24 seasons.[17] Griffith Stadium was home to many events other 
than baseball and football. The All-American Girls Professional Baseball 
League played games there during the league's existence.[18] Over 180 boxing 
matches were held at the ballpark, including fights by Joe Louis.[19] On 
July 23, 1942, a "battle of music" was held at Griffith between musicians 
Louis Armstrong and Charlie Barnet. Some of the 18,000 fans in attendance 
began to dance on the field in front of the bandstand. Spectators who remained 
in their seats complained that they could not see. When the police attempted 
to control the situation by stopping the music, a riot broke out, with 
some minor injuries and several teenagers being hauled away by the police.[20] 
Scrap metal salvage rallies were held at least once at the stadium during 
World War II, where people would bring scrap metal to the ballpark to be 
melted and made into steel for new weapons.[21] Griffith was also the home 
to public school events, church revivals, public meetings, and annual ROTC 
drill competitions.[6][22] Billy Graham held a crusade at Griffith in 1960, 
preaching from a platform erected near second base. Two choir stands, each 
accommodating 500 singers, were set up along the foul lines.[23] Griffith 
Stadium was located in the Ledroit Park Neighborhood, of Washington, D.C., 
a historically black area since the Civil War. The neighborhood was home 
to many black working-class people, but also a class of young professional 
African American "elite" including Langston Hughes. Duke Ellington worked 
at Griffith selling hot dogs during his childhood.[6] Griffith Stadium 
was not officially segregated, although an unofficial policy early after 
the 1920s expansion was that blacks sat in the right field pavilion. Calvin 
Griffith, nephew of Clark Griffith, claimed that the segregated seats were 
a result of "colored preachers ... asking Mr. Griffith to put aside a section 
for the black people."[6] Shortly after the end of World War I, after a 
report that several white women had been raped by a black man, a large 
group of whites seeking revenge marched toward the Shaw neighborhood. However, 
a conflict was avoided after these men came upon "a group of two thousand 
armed black men", who had been prepared and gotten their weapons at Griffith 
Stadium, chosen as a meeting place because of its landmark status in the 
community.[6] Senators management, seemingly uneasy about racial matters, 
were latecomers to integrating their team, hiring their first black player 
in late summer of 1954. The segregationist policy of the Redskins was more 
overt and controversial. In October 1957, a group of blacks picketed multiple 
times in front of Griffith Stadium, protesting the lack of black players 
on the Redskins.[24] It would be five more years before the Redskins finally 
began employing black players, the last NFL team to erase the color line. 
In 1955, longtime Senators owner Clark Griffith died, and his nephew, Calvin 
Griffith, took over. Fewer and fewer fans were coming to the ballpark, 
due in large part to the St. Louis Browns' move to Baltimore in 1954, causing 
Baltimoreans to stop having to come to Washington to see games.[13] Because 
of this, Calvin Griffith developed an interest in moving the Senators to 
Minnesota. Attendance may not have been the sole reason Griffith wanted 
to move, however; in a speech to Minnesota businessmen in the 1970s, Griffith 
said, "You only have 15,000 blacks here".[25] The American League opposed 
a move at first, but agreed under the condition that an expansion team, 
also named the Senators, would come to Washington, beginning in 1961.[26] 
The original Senators moved to Minnesota, and the new Senators played at 
Griffith in 1961. However, in 1962, the Senators moved to the new D.C. 
Stadium, joining the Redskins, who had moved there a year before. The final 
baseball game at Griffith Stadium was played on September 21, 1961, before 
a crowd of only 1,498 fans.[27] Griffith Stadium now had no tenants, and 
sat empty for several years, deteriorating, with the field taking on the 
appearance of a prairie. The ballpark was demolished in 1965. Nearly a 
thousand of the stadium's seats were moved to Tinker Field in Orlando, 
Florida, at that time the spring training home of the Senators/Twins, where 
they remain today.[4] The Howard University Hospital now occupies the site. 
A marker has been placed in the building designating the location of home 
plate. The expansion Senators remained in Washington through the 1971 season, 
then relocated to the Dallas–Fort Worth metroplex and became the Texas 
Rangers in 1972. William Howard Taft watched the Senators bow to the ChiSox, 
August 13, 1912 Woodrow Wilson opens the season at Griffith Stadium, April 
20, 1916 Future President Hoover (l) and current President Harding and 
wives, 1922 Calvin Coolidge gets to meet pitcher Walter Johnson, June 18, 
1925 Hoover again, now as President. Opening Day, 1929, at Griffith Stadium 
Franklin D. Roosevelt throws the first pitch at Opening Day, April 24, 
1934 Players jump for the "first ball", tossed by Roosevelt at the All-Star 
Game, July 7, 1937 Harry S. Truman throws out first ball at the season 
opener, April 15, 1952 John F. Kennedy throws out the first ball, Opening 
