In baseball, ground rules are special rules particular to each baseball 
park (grounds) in which the game is played. Unlike the well-defined playing 
field of most other sports, the playing area of a baseball field extends 
to an outfield fence in fair territory and the stadium seating in foul 
territory. The unique design of each ballpark, including fences, dugouts, 
bullpens, railings, stadium domes, photographer's wells and TV camera booths, 
requires that rules be defined to handle situations in which these objects 
may interact or interfere with the ball in play or with the players. Major 
League Baseball has defined a set of "universal ground rules" that apply 
to all MLB ballparks;[1] individual ballparks have the latitude to set 
ground rules above and beyond the universal ground rules, as long as they 
do not directly contradict each other. Additionally, a set of universal 
ground rules exists for the six MLB stadiums with retractable roofs, with 
the individual ballparks able to set additional rules. The term ground 
rule double is often applied to a batted ball that bounces fair, then over 
the outfield fence in fair or foul territory, although some commentators 
and writers shun the term because league-wide rules, not ground rules, 
apply in this case. Individual ballpark ground rules vary greatly from 
ballpark to ballpark. For the 2008 season, Kauffman Stadium, Yankee Stadium, 
and U.S. Cellular Field are the only MLB ballparks that do not have individual 
ground rules above the universal set. Examples of ground rules of major 
league ballparks include: These ground rules only apply at ballparks featuring 
retractable roofs. As of the 2012 season, these are: Rogers Centre, Chase 
Field, Safeco Field, Miller Park, Minute Maid Park, and Marlins Park. Rules 
governing batted balls striking the roof are defined in each individual 
ballpark's ground rules. All ballpark-specific retractable roof ground 
rules concern opening of the roof after a game has started. If the game 
starts with the roof closed: If the game starts with the roof open and 
