In baseball, a ground rule double is an award of two bases from the time 
of pitch to all baserunners including the batter-runner as a result of 
the ball leaving play after being hit fairly and leaving the field under 
a condition of the ground rules in effect at the field where the game is 
being played. An automatic double is the term used to refer to a fairly 
hit ball leaving the field in circumstances that do not merit a home run, 
as described in Major League Baseball (MLB) rules 5.05(a)(6) through 5.05(a)(9).[1] 
The automatic double (or rule-book double) is quite often mistakenly called 
a ground rule double.[2] While Major League Baseball has a set of universal 
ground rules that apply at all ballparks, none of these rules provide for 
an award of two bases to a runner. A true ground rule double thus is granted 
only when the ground rules of a specific park come into play—rules created 
to provide for unique playing conditions of that park. For example, ground 
rules govern the situation when a batted ball is lodged in the ivy at Wrigley 
Field or the walkways at Tropicana Field.[3] The far more commonly occurring 
automatic double results from the generally applicable MLB rules 5.05(a)(6) 
through 5.05(a)(9). These rules govern how to treat the batter (and any 
runners on base) when a batted ball is hit fair but passes out of the field 
of play or becomes artificially obstructed while in the field of play. 
For example, these rules cover balls that hit the ground in fair territory 
and land out of play, typically by bouncing over a fence or wall in the 
outfield. MLB rules also provide generically for the award of a double 
when a batted ball goes through or under a fence; and when it goes through 
or sticks in shrubbery or vines on the fence. One of these MLB Rules (5.05(a)(9)) 
governs when fair fly balls are deflected into the stands by a fielder: 
for example, a fair fly ball deflected out of play by a fielder from a 
point within 250 feet of home plate is considered a double. This applied 
in an unusual play August 3, 2007 when Melky Cabrera of the New York Yankees 
hit a ball that ricocheted off Kansas City Royals pitcher Ryan Braun's 
foot and bounced into the stands in foul territory.[4] When two bases are 
awarded by either ground rules or the automatic rule, any baserunners ahead 
of the batter are entitled to advance two bases from their positions at 
the time of pitch. Only in the case of interference is the umpire vested 
with discretion to award more bases. The ground rule or automatic double 
frequently results in a runner at first base who appears to have been able 
to score on the batted ball nevertheless being returned to third base when 
the ball goes out of play. In the early years of baseball, all batted balls 
that cleared the fence after a bounce in fair territory or on a fly were 
counted as home runs. The rule was changed by the American League prior 
to the 1930 season and subsequently by the National League on December 
