Guaranteed Rate Field, previously known as U.S. Cellular Field, is a baseball 
park located in Chicago, Illinois. It serves as the home ballpark for the 
Chicago White Sox, a Major League Baseball club competing in the American 
League (AL) Central division. The park is owned by the Illinois Sports 
Facilities Authority, but operated by the White Sox. The park opened for 
the 1991 season, after the White Sox had spent 81 years at the original 
Comiskey Park. It also opened with the name Comiskey Park but was renamed 
in 2003 after U.S. Cellular bought the naming rights at $68 million over 
20 years.[7] The ballpark was renamed again to Guaranteed Rate Field on 
October 31, 2016, as Guaranteed Rate, a private residential mortgage company 
located in Chicago, purchased the naming rights to the ballpark.[8][9] 
On August 24, 2016, owner Jerry Reinsdorf announced a name change for the 
stadium, removing the U.S. Cellular Field name and replacing it with Guaranteed 
Rate Field beginning on November 1, 2016, and valid for thirteen years. 
The name change began on October 31, 2016. The stadium is situated just 
to the west of the Dan Ryan Expressway in Chicago's Armour Square neighborhood, 
adjacent to the more famous neighborhood of Bridgeport. It was built directly 
across 35th Street from old Comiskey Park, which was demolished to make 
room for a parking lot that serves the venue. Old Comiskey's home plate 
location is represented by a marble plaque on the sidewalk next to Guaranteed 
Rate Field and the foul lines are painted in the parking lot. Also, the 
spectator ramp across 35th Street is designed in such a way (partly curved, 
partly straight but angling east-northeast) that it echoes the contour 
of the old first-base grandstand. The park was completed at a cost of US$167 
million. The current public address announcer is Gene Honda, who also serves 
as the PA announcer for the Chicago Blackhawks. The stadium was the first 
new major sporting facility built in Chicago since Chicago Stadium in 1929. 
It was also the last one built before the wave of new "retro-classic" ballparks 
in the 1990s and 2000s. However, a few design features from the old park 
were retained. The front facade of the park features arched windows. Most 
notable is the "exploding scoreboard" which pays homage to the original 
installed by Bill Veeck at the old park in 1960. The original field dimensions 
and seating configuration were very similar to those of Royals Stadium 
(now Kauffman Stadium) in Kansas City—which had been the last baseball-only 
park built in the majors, in 1973. As originally built, the park was criticized 
by many fans because of the height of the upper deck. The original architect, 
HOK Sport (now Populous), wanted to eliminate the overhang problems present 
in many stadiums built since the 1970s. With this in mind, the upper deck 
was set back over the lower deck, and the stands rose fairly gradually. 
While it gave nearly every seat in the upper level an unobstructed view 
of the field, it also created one of the highest upper decks in baseball. 
The first row of seats in the upper deck at the new stadium is as far from 
the field as the highest row of seats in the upper deck at the old stadium. 
Fans sitting in this area didn't get much chance for relief, as it is one 
of the few parks in Major League Baseball that do not allow fans sitting 
in the upper deck to venture anywhere else in the park, e.g. lower deck 
concourse. In response to fan complaints, the stadium has undergone numerous 
renovations since the 2001 season in order to retrofit the facility to 
current architectural trends. These changes have included building a multi-tiered 
concourse beyond center field, adjusting the fences to make the outfield 
less symmetrical and, most significantly, the removal of 6,600 seats at 
the top of the upper deck. The uppermost story of the park now has a white 
and black screen behind the top row of seats and is topped by a flat canopy 
roof supported by black steel truss supports that obstruct the view of 
a few seats. The original blue seats were also replaced by forest green 
seats. The new green and black color scheme, upper level screen set back 
from the outer wall and canopy roof resemble features of the old Comiskey 
Park as well as other classic baseball stadiums. The White Sox have also 
added murals to the interior concourses, a prominent feature of the old 
stadium. The stadium houses 103 luxury suites located on two levels, as 
well as 1,822 "club seats" on 300-level mezzanine between the lower deck 
and upper deck. The club seats receive in-seat wait-staff and benefit from 
an enclosed concourse with multiple television viewing areas and bar-style 
concessions. The stadium has 400 wheelchair-accessible seats, 38 public 
restrooms, 12 escalators and 15 elevators. The new suites were one example 
of why the old Comiskey Park was demolished, as suites generate more revenue. 
In 2001, extensive renovations were started by HKS Sports & Entertainment 
Group to make the park more fan-friendly: Renovations added not part of 
the original plan. 2010 2011 2012 2016 There are 11 retired numbers on 
the facade of the Home Plate Club. Note: 1994 season incomplete due to 
Players Strike There were three ties, the first in the 1995 season against 
the Yankees at Yankee Stadium. The second tie happened in the 1998 season 
against the Blue Jays at then Comiskey Park. The third tie took place in 
the 1999 season against the Twins at Comiskey Park. Guaranteed Rate Field 
has appeared in films such as Rookie of the Year (1993), Major League II 
(1994), Little Big League (1994), My Best Friend's Wedding (1997), and 
The Ladies Man (2000). In Rookie of the Year the stadium played the role 
of Dodger Stadium and in Little Big League the stadium played the role 
of all opposing ballparks except for Yankee Stadium and Fenway Park. Commercials 
for the PGA Tour, Nike, Reebok and the Boys & Girls Clubs of America have 
