Guayama (Spanish: [ɡwaˈʝama]), officially the Autonomous Municipality of 
Guayama (Spanish: Municipio Autónomo de Guayama) is a city and municipality 
on the Caribbean coast of Puerto Rico. As of the 2010 U.S. Census, the 
city had a population of 45,362. It is the center of the Guayama metropolitan 
area, which was home to 84,214 in 2010. During the early years of the Spanish 
colonization, the region known today as Guayama was inhabited by Taíno 
Indians. The indigenous population in this area decreased due to slavery 
and migration to the Lesser Antilles. The following centuries, the region 
was under attack from the Taíno rebellion, Caribs and pirates. The town 
was founded on January 29, 1736 as San Antonio de Padua de Guayama by then 
Spanish Governor Matías de Abadía, although there is knowledge of it being 
populated by native Indians as early as 1567. Guayama took its name from 
an Indian leader, or cacique who governed the Southeastern region of the 
Island, the Guamaní cacique and the Guayama cacique. The meaning of the 
Indian name is "Great Place" (in Spanish Sitio Grande). It was Governor 
Don Tomás de Abadía who officially declared Guayama a "pueblo" (town) with 
the name of San Antonio de Padua de Guayama. That same year the Catholic 
Church in town, San Antonio de Padua, was declared a Parish. In 1776, Guayama 
had 200 houses, the church and a central plaza and the total population 
was approximately 5,000 villagers. Construction on Guayama's Parroquial 
church of San Antonio de Padua began in 1827 and was completed 40 years 
later. In 1828 the construction of the King's House (Casa del Rey) was 
completed and the church was rebuilt as well. Earlier that year, Guayama 
was hit by a terrible fire that destroyed 57 houses and 9 huts. Guayama 
territorial order was altered at different times through the years. Some 
of the most populated neighborhoods were segregated to form new towns. 
Patillas was established in 1811 as an independent municipality. In 1831, 
the territory comprised the neighborhoods: Algarrobos, Ancones, Arroyo, 
Carreras, Guayama Pueblo, Guamaní, Jobos, Machete, and Yaurel. Later, Arroyo 
was divided into Arroyo Este and Arroyo Oeste and neighborhoods emerged: 
Pozo Hondo, Palmas de Aguamanil, Caimital, Pitajayas, Cuatro Calles, Sabana 
Eneas, Palmas, and Salinas. The later had been segregated from Coamo. In 
1855, Arroyo was separated to become an independent municipality, taking 
the neighborhoods: Ancones, Arroyo, Yaurel, Pitajaya, and Cuatro Calles. 
By 1878, Guayama was a department head including: Comerío (then Sabana 
del Palmar), Cidra, Cayey, Salinas, Arroyo, San Lorenzo (then called Hato 
Grande), Aguas Buenas, Caguas, Gurabo, and Juncos. The development continued 
with the construction of the town cemetery in 1844, the slaughterhouse 
and meat market in 1851, and a wooden theater of two levels in 1878. By 
then Guayama had fourteen sugar plantations operating with steam engines 
and three with ox mills. Also practiced in this municipality was the exploitation 
of lead mines by the company "La Estrella", owned by Miguel Planellas, 
as well as the mineral galena, by the company "La Rosita", owned by Antonio 
Aponte. In 1881, Guayama is declared a Villa (First Order Municipality). 
During the Spanish–American War, American forces under General Nelson A. 
Miles landed at Guánica near Ponce on July 25, 1898. The landing surprised 
the United States War Department no less than the Spanish, as Miles had 
been instructed to land near San Juan (the War Department learned of the 
landing through an Associate Press release.) However, en route to Puerto 
Rico Miles concluded that a San Juan landing was vulnerable to attack by 
small boats, and so changed plans. Ponce, said at the time to be the largest 
city in Puerto Rico, was connected with San Juan by a 70-mile military 
road, well defended by the Spanish at Coamo and Aibonito. In order to flank 
this position, American Major General John R. Brooke landed at Arroyo, 
just east of Guayama, intending to move on Cayey, which is northwest of 
Guayama, along the road from Ponce to San Juan. General Brooke occupied 
Guayama August 5, 1898, after slight opposition, in the Battle of Guayama. 
On August 9, the Battle of Guamaní took place north of Guayama. A more 
significant battle, the Battle of Aibonito Pass, was halted on the morning 
of August 13 upon notification of the armistice between the United States 
and Spain. After the Spanish–American War, Guayama continued to develop. 
The Bernardini Theater built by engineer Manuel Texidor y Alcalá del Olmo 
opened in 1913. The venue, property of attorney Thomas Bernardini, was 
the scene for artists of international fame. By that time, Guayama was 
considered one of the most important cities on the island's social scene. 
In the early twentieth century, there were selected societies such as the 
'Coliseo Derkes' and 'Grupo Primavera', which endowed performing arts as 
well as scientific events. By the mid-twentieth century, Guayama achieved 
great industrial development, especially with the establishment of Univis 
Optical Corp., Angela Manufacturing Company and a petrochemical complex 
of the Phillips Petroleum Company. In 1968, the company started production 
of paraffin, benzene, synthetic fibers, nylon, plastic anhydrous, a million 
gallons of gasoline a day, and many other products. During that same decade 
agriculture began to decline as a result of land loss, industrialization 
and the construction of multiple housing developments. The urban growth 
affected the sugar cane industry. However, in 1974, 155,595 tons of sugar 
cane was harvested in the Municipality producing 12,655 tons of refined 
sugar. In November 2002, AES Puerto Rico opened its coal power plant in 
Guayama. The company transmits and distributes electricity through a 25-year 
contract with the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority. The 2012 National 
Puerto Rican Day Parade was dedicated to the Municipality of Guayama and 
its people. Guayama is located at 17°58′27″N 66°06′36″W﻿ / ﻿17.974241°N 
66.110034°W﻿ / 17.974241; -66.110034.[1] The Municipality of Guayama is 
located on the Southern Coastal Valley region, bordering the Caribbean 
Sea, south of Cayey; east of Salinas; and west of Patillas and Arroyo. 
Guayama's municipal territory reaches the central mountain range to the 
north and the Caribbean Sea to the south. The mountain systems Sierra de 
Jajome (730 meters or 2,395 feet) and Sierra de Cayey cover some of the 
municipality area. The highest points are the Cerro de la Tabla (863 meters 
or 2,834 feet) and Cerro Tumbado (746 meters or 2,450 feet), which are 
part of the Sierra de Cayey mountain system. Other elevations are the mountains 
Garau, Charcas and Peña Hendida. Parts of the Guavate-Carite Forest and 
the Aguirre State Forest are in Guayama. The Guavate-Carite Forest, a 6,000-acre 
nature reserve is inhabited by 50 species of birds, making this spot a 
recognized area for birding and has a reserve with a dwarf forest that 
was produced by the region's high humidity and moist soil. The Aguirre 
Forest includes: mangroves, tidal flats, bird rookeries, research lakes 
& large manatee population. The Jobos Bay National Estuarine Research Reserve 
was established in 1987. The reserve is located between the coasts of Salinas 
and Guayama, approximately 2,883 acres of mangrove forest and freshwater 
wetlands. The two main components: Mar Negro mangrove forest, which consists 
of a mangrove forest and a complex system of lagoons and channels interspersed 
with salt and mud flats; and Cayos Caribe Islets, which are surrounded 
by coral reefs and seagrass beds, with small beach deposits and upland 
areas The annual precipitation is approximately 52 inches and the average 
temperature is 81 °F. Population, per 2010 census: Algarrobo 6,959; Caimital 
4,124; Carite 1,210; Carmen 619; Guamaní 1,455 ; Guayama Pueblo 16,891; 
Jobos 8,286; Machete 3,846; Palmas 709; Pozo Hondo 1,263; Total 45,362[3] 
Guayama is home to various pharmaceutical and manufacturing companies like; 
Pfizer, Baxter, Eli Lilly, and Tapi. A coal power plant operated by AES 
and a Phillips Petroleum Company petrochemical complex are also in the 
area. Plaza Guayama and Plaza Walmart are the main shopping malls in the 
area. There are also several shopping outlets. The San Lucas Episcopal 
Hospital, located on Pedro Albizu Campos Avenue and operated by the Episcopal 
Diocese of Puerto Rico and the Santa Rosa Hospital are the main medical 
facilities in Guayama. The Veterans Health Administration operates a Community-Based 
Outpatient Clinic (COBC) in the Municipality. Guayama is the birthplace 
of numerous artists and musicians who have significantly influenced Puerto 
Rican culture. During the 20th century, the literature aspect of the city 
was influenced by performers including Afro-Antillano genre poet Luis Palés 
Matos and his father Vicente Palés Anés. Music composer Catalino "Tite" 
Curet Alonso who became a composer of over 2,000 salsa songs is also from 
Guayama, even though he was raised in the Santurce section of San Juan. 
Other performers born in Guayama include actresses Gilda Galán and Karla 
Monroig. The Casa Cautiño Museum is administered by the Institute of Puerto 
Rican Culture and include works of art, wood carvings, sculptures and furniture 
built by Puerto Rican cabinetmakers for the Cautiño family. The museum 
is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Guayama had one 
the Professional Baseball League foundingTeams. that team won the Championship 
the first years of the league, 1938–39 and 1939-40. Guayama has a baseball 
team (Brujos de Guayama) in the Federación de Béisbol Aficionado de Puerto 
Rico that won the national championship in 1987. Guayama also used to have 
a basketball team in the Puerto Rico's BSN (Brujos de Guayama) that went 
to the League finals twice back in 1991 and 1994 but lost both times to 
eventual champions Atleticos de San German, it was announced that the team 
will return for the league's 2012 season http://www.brujos2k12.com/. The 
Guayama Convention Center hosted some of the roller skating events for 
the 2010 Central American and Caribbean Games that took place in Mayagüez, 
Puerto Rico from July 18, 2010 to August 1, 2010. El Legado Golf Resort, 
a 285 acres, 18 hole golf course founded in 2002 by Puerto Rican golf player 
Juan "Chi-Chi" Rodriguez. As of the 2010 U.S. Census, the city had a population 
of 45,362. It is the center of the Guayama metropolitan area, which was 
home to 84,214 in 2010. In terms of race and ethnicity, the 2010 U.S. Census 
stated the following concerning Guayameses: According to the 2000 Census, 
the per capita income was $7,326. The current mayor of Guayama is Eduardo 
E. Cintrón Suárez, of the Popular Democratic Party (PPD). He was elected 
at the 2012 general elections. The city belongs to the Puerto Rico Senatorial 
district VI, which is represented by two Senators. In 2012, Miguel Pereira 
Castillo and Angel M. Rodríguez were elected as District Senators.[5] The 
flag of Guayama is made up of three stripes of different colors: black, 
yellow, and red from top to bottom. The black stands for the enslaved Africans 
brought to Puerto Rico, many to Guayama. The yellow represents sugar cane 
industry in Puerto Rico and the significance of Guayama's sugar plantations. 
The red symbolizes the blood shed by Taíno Indians in their fight against 
the Spanish/European colonizers. To the left of the top stripe we can see 
the Old Mill, which today is known as the Molino de Vives. The shield is 
divided in four parts and in two of them part of a chessboard appears. 
The chessboard pattern represents the center of the city, which resembles 
a chessboard. It has two old mill towers. The laurel trees constitute a 
representation of the beautiful Recreation Plaza very well known for its 
trimmed trees. The three silver flowers symbolize San Antonio de Padua, 
patron of Guayama. The crown represents Cacique Guayama, name of the town. 
The big crown has four towers. The education system in Guayama has three 
public high schools, which are Francisco Garcia Boyrie, Adela Brenes Texidor 
and Dr. Rafael Lopez Landrón, and one vocational high school, Dra. Maria 
Socorro Lacot. Guayama also counts with a campus of the Puerto Rico Institute 
of Technology and the Inter American University of Puerto Rico, Guayama 
campus (Universidad Interamericana de Puerto Rico, Recinto de Guayama in 
Spanish) http://www.guayama.inter.edu/ . It also has several private schools 
such as Fountain Christian Bilingual School, Academia San Antonio, Guamaní 
Private School, Saint Patrick's Bilingual School, Colegio San Antonio, 
Escuela Superior San Alfonso de Ligorio and Academia Adventista and more 
than 12 other public schools in the elementary and intermediate education 
levels.[6][7] Guayama has direct access to Puerto Rico Highway 54 which 
connect with Puerto Rico Highway 52 in the vicinity of Salinas and its 
downtown/business area is served by Puerto Rico Highways 3, 179, 744, and 
748. The Municipality has good paved roads and is only 38 miles (61 km) 
away from San Juan; and about 38 miles (61 km) from Ponce. The nearest 
international airport is the Mercedita Airport in Ponce. Due to space limitations 
it is almost impossible to list all of the people of Guayama who have distinguished 
