Guelph (i/ɡwɛlf/; Canada 2011 Census population 121,688)[2] is a city in 
southwestern Ontario, Canada. Known as "The Royal City", Guelph is roughly 
28 kilometres (17 mi) east of Waterloo and 100 kilometres (62 mi) west 
of Downtown Toronto at the intersection of Highway 6 and Highway 7. It 
is the seat of Wellington County, but is politically independent of it. 
Because of its low crime rates, clean environment and generally high standard 
of living, Guelph is consistently rated as one of Canada's best places 
to live.[4][5] Guelph has been noted as having one of the lowest unemployment 
rates in the country throughout the 2008–2012 global recession,[6] and 
has ranked at the bottom of Canada's crime severity list since 2007.[7] 
Before colonization, the area was considered by the surrounding indigenous 
communities to be a "neutral" zone. On selected dates, members from these 
communities would meet and trade goods by the Speed River.[citation needed] 
Guelph was selected as the headquarters of British development firm "the 
Canada Company" by its first superintendent John Galt, a popular Scottish 
novelist who designed the town to attract settlers and the surrounding 
countryside.[8] Galt designed the town to resemble a European city centre, 
complete with squares, broad main streets and narrow side streets, resulting 
in a variety of block sizes and shapes which are still in place today.[9] 
The street plan was laid out in a radial street and grid system that branches 
out from downtown,[citation needed] a technique which was also employed 
in other planned towns of this era, such as Buffalo, New York.[8] The Canada 
Company established Guelph in 1827 to serve as the company's headquarters 
during the development of the Huron Tract, although town later came into 
its own as a prosperous railway and industrial centre.[10] Guelph was founded 
by the symbolic felling of a tree[11] on St. George's Day, April 23, 1827, 
the feast day of the patron saint of England.[9] The town was named to 
honour Britain's royal family, the Hanoverians, who were descended from 
the Guelfs, the ancestral family of George IV, the reigning British monarch; 
thus the nickname The Royal City. The directors of the Canada Company had 
actually wanted the city to be named Goderich, but reluctantly accepted 
the fait accompli. Guelph was incorporated as a city in 1879.[12] The Canadian 
Communist Party began as an illegal organization in a rural barn near the 
town of Guelph, Ontario, on May 28 and 29, 1921.[13] Guelph was the home 
of North America's first cable TV system. Fredrick T. Metcalf created MacLean 
Hunter Television (now part of Rogers Communications) and their first broadcast 
was Queen Elizabeth's Coronation in 1953.[14] Guelph's police force had 
Canada's first municipal motorcycle patrol. Chief Ted Lamb brought back 
an army motorcycle he used during the First World War. Motorcycles were 
faster and more efficient than walking.[14] The city is home to the University 
of Guelph and Sleeman Breweries Ltd.. The Ontario Agricultural College 
(OAC), the oldest part of University of Guelph, began in 1873 as an associate 
agricultural college of the University of Toronto. Guelph Collegiate Vocational 
Institute (GCVI), established in the 1840s, is one of the province's oldest 
high schools. Guelph has three National Historic Sites of Canada: the Basilica 
of Our Lady Immaculate, McCrae House and Old City Hall.[15] The name Guelph 
comes from the Italian Guelfo and the Bavarian-Germanic Welf. It is a reference 
to the reigning British monarch at the time Guelph was founded, King George 
IV, whose family was from the House of Hanover, a younger branch of the 
House of Welf.[14] In Italy, during the late Medieval period and up until 
the 15th century, a conflict between the Guelfi neri, the Guelfi bianchi, 
and the Ghibellines ensued throughout the Italian peninsula. The Guelfi 
were named after an aristocratic family that ruled various parts of Europe 
at different times. Downtown Guelph is situated above the confluence of 
the Speed and Eramosa Rivers, which have numerous tributaries. The Speed 
River enters from the north and the Eramosa River from the east; the two 
rivers meet below downtown and continue southwest, where they merge with 
into the Grand River. There are also many creeks and rivers creating large 
tracts of densely forested ravines, and providing ideal sites for parks 
and recreational trails. The city is built on several drumlins and buried 
waterways, the most notable being an underground creek flowing below the 
Albion Hotel, once the source of water used to brew beer. This region of 
Ontario has cold winters and warm, humid summers, falling into the Köppen 
climate classification Dfb zone, with moderately high rainfall and snowfall. 
It is generally a couple of degrees cooler than lower elevation regions 
on the Great Lakes shorelines, especially so in winter, the exception being 
on some spring afternoons when the lack of an onshore breeze boosts temperatures 
well above those found lakeside. The highest temperature ever recorded 
in Guelph was 101 °F (38.3 °C) on 6 August 1918 and 13 July 1936.[16][17] 
The coldest temperature ever recorded was −35 °F (−37.2 °C) on 25 January 
1884.[18] The city of Guelph has a diversified economy that helped Guelph 
obtain the lowest unemployment rate in the country at 4.2% in 2011.[6] 
Manufacturing is the leading sector, accounting for 24.3% of employment 
(2006 census). The second largest industry is Educational services, accounting 
for 11.3%.[22] 26.1% (90/345) of business in the manufacturing industry 
are categorized as Fabricated Metal Product Manufacturing businesses.[23] 
The City of Guelph's Economic Development Strategy identified life science, 
agri-food and biotechnology firms, environmental management and technology 
companies as growth industries on which to focus economic development activities.[24] 
Guelph's 3 largest employers include Linamar (8000), the University of 
Guelph (3700), and the Upper Grand District School Board (3400).[22][25] 
Guelph is the fifth fastest growing city in Canada with a population growth 
rate of about 2% per year. According to the Ontario Places to Grow plan, 
Guelph's population is projected to be about 144,500 by the year 2021. 
Population varies throughout the year because of variations in the University 
of Guelph student population.[27] The 2001 census enumerated 114,943 residents 
of Guelph. 49.1% were male and 50.9% were female. 6.2% were under five. 
The average age is 35.7 years of age. Between 1996 and 2001, the population 
of Guelph grew 10.7%. The 2011 metro population density of Guelph was 335.6 
people per square kilometre. Historically, Guelph's population has been 
principally British in origin, with 92% in 1880 and 87% in 1921.[8] The 
city is mostly Christian: 74.17%, almost evenly split among Protestants 
and Roman Catholics. The largest non-Christian religion is Buddhism: 1.45%, 
followed by Islam.[28] Four school boards operate in the city. The Upper 
Grand District School Board administers all of Wellington County, as well 
as adjacent Dufferin County, while the Wellington Catholic District School 
Board administers Catholic education in Wellington County, including Guelph. 
The Conseil scolaire de district catholique Centre-Sud offers French First 
language education for students with parents who had elementary and secondary 
education in French at École Saint-René-Goupil. The Conseil scolaire Viamonde, 
with similar entrance requirements, operates the École élémentaire L'Odyssée.There 
are also numerous private schools in Guelph: Cornerstone Canadian Reformed 
Christian School, Resurrection Christian Academy, Guelph Community Christian 
School, Guelph Montessori School, Trillium Waldorf School, Wellington Hall 
Academy, and Wellington Montessori School, Echo Montessori. An International 
Baccalaureate Program is available at Guelph C.V.I. Due to the presence 
of two different English school boards, Guelph has numerous elementary 
and secondary schools. The secondary schools are as follows: Public: Catholic: 
Although a private library had existed since 1832, a public library did 
not exist in Guelph until 1882, when the Free Libraries Act allowed municipalities 
to operate libraries. After occupying premises near City Hall, it moved 
into an Andrew Carnegie-funded building in 1905,[29] which was eventually 
demolished in 1964. The current main library building was opened in 1965.[30] 
Guelph is served by a growing library system composed of a main library 
located in the downtown core, five branches and a Bookmobile. With a membership 
of over 85,000, the Guelph Public Library system's goals include preserving 
and indexing public materials relating to the history of Guelph. Although 
no formal program has been developed, the library acquires municipal records 
of archival value from the City of Guelph. The city is a single-tier municipality 
governed by a mayor-council system. The structure of the municipal government 
is stipulated by the Ontario Municipal Act of 2001. There are currently 
12 councillors and a mayor, with two councillors representing each of the 
six wards. The mayor and members of the city council serve four-year terms 
without term limits, with the next election in October 2018. Prior to the 
2006 election, the mayor and city councillors served three-year terms. 
Guelph City Council is responsible for policy and decision making, monitoring 
the operation and performance of the city, analyzing and approving budgets 
and determining spending priorities. In 2014, Ward 4 councillor Cam Guthrie 
defeated incumbent Karen Farbridge, 50% to 36% for the position of mayor. 
Five incumbent councillors were re-elected, four rookie councillors were 
elected, three former councillors were elected, two incumbents were defeated, 
and four did not seek re-election. Guelph occupies a single provincial 
riding of the same name, and is currently represented in the Legislative 
Assembly of Ontario by Liz Sandals, a member of the ruling Ontario Liberal 
Party. Sandals was named Ontario's Minister of Education in February 2013.[31] 
Guelph also occupies a federal riding of the same name. The member of Parliament 
is Lloyd Longfield of the Liberal Party of Canada. Most of the natural 
attractions of Guelph are located beside the two rivers which pass inside 
the city, Speed River and Eramosa River. The Sleeman Centre is a sports 
and entertainment venue in Guelph. The large, modern facility allows for 
a variety of events such as concerts, sporting and family events, trade 
shows and conferences, and it is home to the local hockey team, the Guelph 
Storm.[34] From a Bell Organ factory to the opera singer Edward Johnson, 
Guelph has been a source of musical contribution. Today, Guelph has a thriving 
indie rock scene, which has spawned some of Canada's more well-known indie 
bands. Guelph is also home to the Hillside Festival, a hugely popular music 
festival held at nearby Guelph Lake during the summer, as well as the Guelph 
Jazz Festival.[35] Guelph is also home to the Guelph Symphony Orchestra,[36] 
and two yearly classical music festivals. The Kiwanis Music Festival of 
Guelph showcases students from Guelph and surrounding areas,[37] while 
the Guelph Musicfest offers performances by local professional classical 
musicians.[38] Guelph Transit provides local transportation around the 
city. On June 20, 2007, Guelph Transit launched a web-based system known 
as Next Bus.[40] Global positioning satellites (GPS) technology and advanced 
computer modelling provide riders via the Internet, handheld devices (including 
Palms, Blackberries, and Web-capable cellular phones), or their telephones 
to receive accurate, real-time arrival and departure information. Intercity 
connections by GO Transit and Greyhound Canada are made at the Guelph Central 
Station. Guelph was the first municipality in Canada to have its own federally 
chartered railway, the Guelph Junction Railway. This 25 kilometre (16 mile) 
link to the CPR is still municipally owned. The following is cited from 
the 2010 community profile: "Guelph is also served by both the Canadian 
National Railway and the Canadian Pacific Railway. The City's own Guelph 
Junction Railway provides industry with freight handling facilities and 
connections to CNR and CPR. Via Rail provides inter‐city passenger rail 
service. On December 19, 2011, GO Transit began commuter train service 
to Guelph, with two trains heading eastbound to Toronto in the morning, 
