The Gulf Coast League Twins are the Rookie Level Minor League Baseball 
affiliate of the Minnesota Twins. The team plays in Fort Myers, Florida, 
at the Lee County Sports Complex.The team is composed mainly of players 
who are in their first year of professional baseball either as draftees 
or non-drafted free agents from the United States, Canada, Dominican Republic, 
Venezuela and other countries.[1] Gulf Coast League team rosters are thirty 
players, and cannot have more than twelve players over twenty years old, 
and no more than four players over 21. No player can have more than two 
years of prior service, excluding Rookie leagues outside the United States 
and Canada. In 1965, the team first played in the league's direct predecessor, 
the Florida Rookie League, as the Florida Rookie League Twins. The team 
suspended operations after the 1971 season, but returned to the GCL in 
1989. The GCL Twins compete in the GCL's Southern Division. In 2009, the 
GCL Twins won the South with a 34-21 record under manager Jake Mauer, who 
is the older brother of the Minnesota Twins AL MVP catcher Joe Mauer. They 
lost 1-0 in twelve innings to the wild card winning GCL Nationals in the 
one game playoff.[2] Following the season, Mauer was promoted to manager 
of the Florida State League Fort Myers Miracle, and Chris Heintz took the 
reins for the GCL Twins. Like Mauer, Heintz was also a player in the Twins 
organization. He coached with the Beloit Snappers the final two months 
of the 2009 season. In addition to managing the GCL club, Heintz will also 
run the Twins' extended Spring Training.[3] On July 25, 2010, it was announced 
that Tom Brunansky, member of the 1987 Twin's championship team, accepted 
a job to be the hitting coach for the GCL Twins and had started working 
early this July.[4] Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches 
7-day disabled list * On Minnesota Twins 40-man roster # Rehab assignment 
∞ Reserve list ‡ Restricted list § Suspended list † Temporary inactive 
list Roster updated April 24, 2016 Transactions → More MiLB rosters → Minnesota 
