The Gulf Coast League is a Minor League Baseball league that operates in 
Florida. It is a rookie league, and together with the Arizona League it 
forms the lowest rung on the minor-league ladder. GCL teams play at the 
minor league spring training complexes of their parent Major League Baseball 
clubs and are owned by those parent clubs. Admission is not charged and 
no concessions are operated at the teams' games. The players assigned to 
this level are first-year players who are drafted in the MLB entry draft 
a few weeks prior to the start of the GCL season, and emphasis is therefore 
placed on skill development, rather than competitive play. Prior to the 
formation of this league, three separate leagues used the Gulf Coast League 
name, a 1907–1908 Class D league, a 1926 class D league and a 1950–1953 
Class C League. All three leagues operated around the Gulf coasts of Texas 
and Louisiana.[1] Complex-based baseball leagues, which played before sparse 
crowds and often scheduled morning games to avoid the summer heat and afternoon 
thunderstorms, were adopted after the drastic shrinking of minor league 
baseball during the 1950s and 1960s. MLB teams needed an entry level to 
professional baseball for 18- and 19-year-old players graduating from high 
schools or signed from Latin America. They are typically considered the 
lowest rung on the minor league ladder, a notch below other Rookie-level 
leagues such as the Appalachian or the Pioneer circuits. The league was 
founded in 1964 as the Sarasota Rookie League with four teams playing in 
Sarasota. It was originally intended to be the Gulf Coast division of a 
statewide rookie league, with the eastern division based in Cocoa.[2][3] 
However, the eastern and western teams never played each other. The SRL's 
four teams consisted of squads sponsored by the Chicago White Sox, Milwaukee 
Braves, New York Yankees and St. Louis Cardinals. The SRL Braves, managed 
by Paul Snyder, future Atlanta farm system director, won the championship 
with a 36–23 record. The league added teams in Bradenton in 1965 and changed 
its name to the Florida Rookie League. The league adopted its current name, 
Gulf Coast League, for the 1966 season. It expanded to Florida's east coast 
in the 1990s. On June 21, 2016, the GCL hired Jen Pawol, the first female 
umpire in Minor League Baseball since 2007, and the first in the GCL since 
1978.[4] The league plays a 60-game season that runs from mid-June to late 
August. Teams in the league are divided into four divisions: East, Northeast, 
Northwest, and South. The four division winners play in a one-game semifinal; 
the team with the best regular-season record plays the division winner 
with the lowest record, while the division winner with the second-best 
record plays the division winner with the third-best record. Should the 
Northeast and Northwest Divisions finish 1st and 4th, the semifinal matchups 
place 1st vs. 3rd and 2nd vs. 4th. The semifinal winners meet in a best-of-3 
game series for the Gulf Coast League championship.[5] GCL teams are not 
referred to by their home city, but simply by their parent club's name, 
the prefix "GCL" or "Gulf Coast" if necessary to differentiate between 
them and another club sharing the nickname, and a cardinal number if the 
parent club sponsors more than one team in the league. Some of these teams 
share stadiums with their club's High-A affiliate in the Florida State 
League, which can lead to confusion, as FSL teams do use the city name 
(e.g. the Tampa Yankees, three levels up from the GCL Yankees 1 and GCL 
Yankees 2, who also play in Tampa). The Detroit Tigers and New York Yankees 
are fielding two teams, the first time since 1981 when the Houston Astros 
