William Augustus "Gus" Greenlee (December 26, 1893 – July 7, 1952) was 
a Negro League baseball owner and an African-American businessman. Gus 
Greenlee was born in Marion, North Carolina in 1893. His father was a masonry 
contractor and his mother was of mixed race. Greenlee did not complete 
college, unlike his three brothers who pursued professional careers: two 
became doctors and one a lawyer. In 1916, Greenlee traveled north by freight 
car to Pittsburgh, settling in the Hill District. In Pittsburgh he held 
several jobs in the steel mills, shining shoes and driving a cab. He served 
in the black 367th regiment during World War I. Beginning with the purchase 
of the Collins Inn in 1924, Greenlee became one of the most influential 
African American business owners in Pittsburgh,[1] making his reputation 
as a numbers runner and racketeer, as well as the owner of the Crawford 
Grill nightclub and the Pittsburgh Crawfords baseball team. Despite the 
rough figure suggested by terms such as "racketeer," Greenlee was known 
as a philanthropist who helped fellow blacks with scholarships for schooling 
and with grants to buy homes. Such opportunities were otherwise impossible 
to come by through white-controlled financial institutions, leading scholars 
to suggest Greenlee's success be read as an enterprising attempt to fill 
a need created by segregation. According to Vernell A. Lillie, professor 
emeritus of Africana studies at the University of Pittsburgh, Greenlee 
and other "runners" were respected. "They made their money probably from 
the numbers racket, but they turned that money into something very positive. 
If anybody wanted to buy a house, they could not go to Mellon Bank or Dollar 
Savings. They had to go to old man Greenlee, or to [William A. "Buzzy"] 
Robinson.”[2] Greenlee died of a stroke July 7, 1952. He is buried in Pittsburgh's 
Allegheny Cemetery.[3] Greenlee knew little about baseball when he first 
started out. He took interest when the promoters of the Crawford Giants 
ran out of money and he decided to give a charitable donation of the money 
he made from a speakeasy that he owned and money he made from getting into 
the banking business. His large payroll attracted some big name players 
in the Negro leagues. He would eventually make the Crawford Giants his 
team by getting rid of the players that were there before him and bringing 
in new players. Greenlee also owned a future light-heavyweight boxing champion, 
which added to his reputation. In 1933, Greenlee organized the annual East-West 
Classic, an all-star baseball game in Chicago, at Comiskey Park between 
Negro League stars, which became the centerpiece of the baseball season. 
That same year he was the primary founder of the second Negro National 
League, which he served as president for five seasons. For a while, the 
Crawfords were the best-financed team in black baseball. Revenue generated 
from his gambling and bootlegging operations allowed Greenlee to sign black 
baseball's biggest names. The 1935 squad may be the best ever to play in 
the Negro Leagues, as it fielded five Baseball Hall of Fame players. Money 
also enabled Greenlee to build his own ballpark. When he bought the Pittsburgh 
Crawfords in 1930, he was insulted that his players were not allowed to 
use the dressing rooms at white-owned or -controlled venues like Forbes 
Field, Ammon Field, and others. Following the 1938 season, Greenlee left 
baseball. He sold the baseball team and razed the ballpark, partly because 
he had lost the best players and partly because he owed money on a heavily 
played number.(Riley) In 1945, he made a comeback in alliance with Branch 
Rickey, related to Rickey's projected integration of the major leagues. 
They established the United States League in competition with established 
Negro leagues and operated for two seasons. Greenlee left baseball permanently 
after 1946 but continued to operate the Crawford Grill until its 1951 destruction 
by fire.[4] In 1932, Greenlee purchased a plot of land and opened Greenlee 
Field, one of the early black ballparks. (Contrary to popular opinion, 
it was not the first; it followed the Walker brothers' ballpark at the 
corner of Chauncey and Hombre Way, also in the Hill District.[5]) The stadium 
was made of concrete and steel. It seated 7,500 fans. The ballpark was 
designed by an architect named Bellinger, who was the first African American 
architect in Pittsburgh, and cost Greenlee nearly $100,000 which he financed 
over half of. Lights and a tarp to cover the fans from the sun were added 
in 1933. The first game at the field brought 4,000 fans due to some of 
the seating still being under construction. The field was also used for 
