A gyroball is a type of baseball pitch used primarily by players in Japan. 
It is thrown with a spiral-like spin, so that there is no Magnus force 
on the ball as it arrives at home plate.[1] The gyroball is sometimes confused 
with the shuuto, another pitch used in Japan. The gyroball pitch was first 
identified by the Japanese scientist Ryutaro Himeno (姫野 龍太郎), and later 
developed into a specific throwing technique by baseball instructor Kazushi 
Tezuka (手塚 一志), who used computer simulations to create a new style of 
delivery intended to reduce stress on the pitcher. They published their 
work in a book, currently available only in Japan, the title of which is 
roughly translated as The Secret of the Miracle Pitch (魔球の正体). In simulations, 
they showed how a pitcher with good mechanics could throw the baseball 
in a way that it spun like a bullet or perfect football spiral, around 
the axis represented by the forward motion of the ball. This results in 
an unprecedented amount of "break" in the trajectory of the ball on the 
way to the home plate.[2] However, the technique to throwing the gyroball 
is all in the arms, not in the unique grip of the baseball. Kazushi Tezuka 
is an instructor at the Jyoutatsuya baseball dojo in Tokyo, and Osaka, 
Japan. According to Tezuka, use of the arms "is the most important part 
of throwing the gyroball. It has nothing to do with the hands."[3] Amidst 
many conflicting claims, Tezuka says the gyroball has been misunderstood.[4] 
In short, similar to a bullet, gyroball's axis of spin directly faces forward. 
According to Himeno and Tezuka, a gyroball is thrown so that, at the point 
of release, instead of having the pitcher's arm move inwards towards the 
body (the standard method used in the United States), the pitcher rotates 
his arm so that it moves away from his body, toward third base for a right-handed 
pitcher and toward first base for a left-handed pitcher. The unusual method 
of delivery creates a bullet-like spin on the ball with the axis of spin 
in line with the direction of the throw, similar to the way an American 
football is thrown. According to Tezuka, the pitch, if thrown correctly, 
is meant to fly straight like a fastball. Contrary to early speculation 
that the gyroball was a late moving breaking ball, the fact that the pitch 
travels with a bullet-spin denotes that the baseball is stabilized, hence 
the lack of movement. In baseball, most pitches are thrown with backspin, 
like the usual fastball, or with a more forward spinning motion, like the 
curveball and the slider. To throw a gyroball, a pitcher holds the side 
of the ball with a fastball grip. The pitcher's hips and throwing shoulder 
must be in near-perfect sync, something the book refers to as "double-spin 
mechanics." As the pitcher rotates his shoulder, he snaps his wrist and 
pulls down his fingers rather than flipping them over the ball, as happens 
with curveballs. The rotation is side over side. When the pitcher lets 
go, he must pronate his wrist, or turn it so the palm faces third base. 
It's like a right-hander throwing a screwball, only instead of the ball 
last touching the middle finger, it spins off the index finger. Batters 
use the arm speed of the pitcher and the spin on a baseball, made visible 
by the seams, to judge the speed and trajectory of a pitch. The gyroball 
is thrown with the arm speed of a usual fastball, but with a different 
actual speed. Its bullet-like spinning motion may hide the seams of a ball 
from the view of the batter, making it difficult to predict the pitch. 
Typical strategy entails throwing many variations of pitches, followed 
by a gyroball. The batter, predicting a change in speed caused by the ball's 
spin, may adapt to the wrong speed and swing incorrectly. The gyroball 
is also often confused with a completely different Japanese pitch called 
the shuuto, due to an error in a well-known article by baseball writer 
Will Carroll.[5] Although Carroll later corrected himself, the confusion 
still persists. In March 2005, Baseball Mogul was the first game to include 
the "Gyroball". The pitch was included in the arsenal of Daisuke Matsuzaka. 
However, because Matsuzaka was not yet with the Red Sox, players had to 
simulate into the 2006 season before the gyroball became available. Additionally, 
the gyroball is available in Baseball Mogul's player editor, and can be 
learned in Spring Training by pitchers that enter the game after 2005. 
In the game's graphical play-by-play mode, the pitch comes out of the pitcher's 
hand as a fastball, but fails to rise like a traditional four-seam fastball. 
In the video game MLB 07: The Show and the more recent The Bigs, only Daisuke 
Matsuzaka has the ability to throw the gyroball, although the movement 
of the pitch in the video game differs from the movement of the actual 
pitch. Daisuke Matsuzaka has himself stated, "looks like they are talking 
about my cut fastball or sinking slider. I guess sometimes it has a similar 
rotation of a gyro, when I fail to throw the cut fastball or the slider 
properly, but it is not exactly a gyro itself. It is different. There is 
a particular way of throwing it. I guess it is a kind of shuuto-like cut 
fastball". (However, in the long-lasting Japan-Baseball game series Jikkyō 
Powerful Pro Yakyū series, Daisuke is never given "Gyroball" ability for 
any installment, nor in the MLB Power Pros series installment.) It is an 
obtainable ability in the MLB Power Pros series, and its effect is to make 
the fastball look faster. In the Japanese manga and anime baseball series 
Major, the protagonist, Goro, is known for his use of the gyroball pitch, 
which was his only pitch until he eventually adds a forkball to his repertoire. 
The gyroball is often confused with a changeup, but the beginning speed 
