Haight-Ashbury is a district of San Francisco, California, named for the 
intersection of Haight and Ashbury streets. It is also called The Haight 
and The Upper Haight.[5] The neighborhood is known for its history of, 
and being the origin of hippie counterculture. The district generally encompasses 
the neighborhood surrounding Haight Street, bounded by Stanyan Street and 
Golden Gate Park on the west, Oak Street and the Golden Gate Park Panhandle 
on the north, Baker Street and Buena Vista Park to the east and Frederick 
Street and Ashbury Heights and Cole Valley neighborhoods to the south. 
The street names commemorate two early San Francisco leaders: Pioneer and 
exchange banker Henry Haight[6] and Munroe Ashbury, a member of the San 
Francisco Board of Supervisors from 1864 to 1870.[7] Both Haight and his 
nephew as well as Ashbury had a hand in the planning of the neighborhood, 
and, more importantly, nearby Golden Gate Park at its inception. The name 
"Upper Haight", used by locals, is in contrast to the Haight-Fillmore or 
Lower Haight district; the latter being lower in elevation and part of 
what was previously the principal African-American and Japanese neighborhoods 
in San Francisco's early years. The Haight-Ashbury district is noted for 
its role as a center of the 1960s hippie movement. The earlier bohemians 
of the beat movement had congregated around San Francisco's North Beach 
neighborhood from the late 1950s. Many who could not find accommodation 
there turned to the quaint, relatively cheap and underpopulated Haight-Ashbury.[8] 
The Summer of Love (1967), the 1960s era as a whole, and much of modern 
American counterculture have been synonymous with San Francisco and the 
Haight-Ashbury neighborhood ever since. Before the completion of the Haight 
Street Cable Railroad in 1883, what is now the Haight-Ashbury was a collection 
of isolated farms and acres of sand dunes. The Haight cable car line, completed 
in 1883, connected the east end of Golden Gate Park with the geographically 
central Market Street line and the rest of downtown San Francisco. As the 
primary gateway to Golden Gate Park, and with an amusement park known as 
the Chutes[9] on Haight Street between Cole and Clayton Streets between 
1895 and 1902[10] and the California League Baseball Grounds stadium opening 
in 1887, the area became a popular entertainment destination, especially 
on weekends. The cable car, land grading and building techniques of the 
1890s and early 20th century later reinvented the Haight-Ashbury as a residential 
upper middle class homeowners' district.[11] It was one of the few neighborhoods 
spared from the fires that followed the catastrophic San Francisco earthquake 
of 1906. The Haight was hit hard by the Depression, as was much of the 
city. Residents with enough money to spare left the declining and crowded 
neighborhood for greener pastures within the growing city limits, or newer, 
smaller suburban homes in the Bay Area. During the housing shortage of 
World War II, large single-family Victorians were divided into apartments 
to house workers. Others were converted into boarding homes for profit. 
By the 1950s, the Haight was a neighborhood in decline. Many buildings 
were left vacant after the war. Deferred maintenance also took its toll, 
and the exodus of middle class residents to newer suburbs continued to 
leave many units for rent. In the 1950s, a freeway was proposed that would 
have run through the Panhandle, but due to a citizen freeway revolt, it 
was cancelled in a series of battles that lasted until 1966.[12][13][page needed] 
The Haight Ashbury Neighborhood Council (HANC) was formed at the time of 
the 1959 revolt.[14] HANC is still active in the neighborhood as of 2008.[15] 
The Haight-Ashbury's elaborately detailed, 19th century, multi-story, wooden 
houses became a haven for hippies during the 1960s, due to the availability 
of cheap rooms and vacant properties for rent or sale in the district; 
property values had dropped in part because of the proposed freeway.[16] 
The bohemian subculture that subsequently flourished there took root, and 
to a great extent, has remained to this day.[17] The mainstream media's 
coverage of hippie life in the Haight-Ashbury drew the attention of youth 
from all over America. Hunter S. Thompson labeled the district "Hashbury" 
in The New York Times Magazine, and the activities in the area were reported 
almost daily.[18] The Haight-Ashbury district was sought out by hippies 
to constitute a community based upon counterculture ideals, drugs, and 
music. This neighborhood offered a concentrated gathering spot for hippies 
to create a social experiment that would soon spread throughout the nation.[19] 
The opening of the Psychedelic Shop on January 3, 1966 offered hippies 
a spot to purchase marijuana and LSD, which was essential to hippie life 
in Haight-Ashbury.[20] With the Psychedelic Shop located in the heart of 
Haight-Ashbury, the entire hippie community had easy access to drugs, which 
was perceived as a community unifier.[21] The neighborhood's fame reached 
its peak as it became the haven for a number of the top psychedelic rock 
performers and groups of the time. Acts such as Jefferson Airplane, the 
Grateful Dead, and Janis Joplin all lived a short distance from the intersection. 
They not only immortalized the scene in song, but also knew many within 
the community as friends and family. The first ever head shop, Ron and 
Jay Thelin's Psychedelic Shop, opened on Haight Street in January 1966. 
Along with businesses like the coffee shop the Blue Unicorn, the Psychedelic 
Shop quickly became one of the unofficial community centers for the growing 
numbers of freaks, heads, and hippies migrating to the neighborhood in 
1966-67.[22] Another well-known neighborhood presence was the Diggers, 
a local "community anarchist" group known for its street theater, formed 
in the mid to late 1960s. The Diggers believed in a free society and the 
good in human nature. To express their belief, they established a free 
store, gave out free meals daily, and built a free medical clinic, which 
was the first of its kind, all of which functioned off of volunteers and 
donations.[23][page needed] The Diggers were strongly opposed to a capitalistic 
society (Hill 69); they felt that by eliminating the need for money, people 
would be free to examine their own personal values, which would provoke 
people to change the way they lived to better suit their character, and 
thus lead a happier life.[24] During the "Summer of Love," psychedelic 
rock music was entering the mainstream, receiving more and more commercial 
radio airplay. The Scott McKenzie song "San Francisco (Be Sure to Wear 
Flowers in Your Hair)," written by John Phillips of The Mamas & the Papas, 
became a hit single in 1967. The Monterey Pop Festival in June further 
cemented the status of psychedelic music as a part of mainstream culture 
and elevated local Haight bands such as the Grateful Dead, Big Brother 
and the Holding Company, and Jefferson Airplane to national stardom. A 
July 7, 1967, Time magazine cover story on "The Hippies: Philosophy of 
a Subculture," an August CBS News television report on "The Hippie Temptation"[25] 
and other major media interest in the hippie subculture exposed the Haight-Ashbury 
district to enormous national attention and popularized the counterculture 
movement across the country and around the world. The Summer of Love attracted 
a wide range of people of various ages: teenagers and college students 
drawn by their peers and the allure of joining a cultural utopia; middle-class 
vacationers; and even partying military personnel from bases within driving 
distance. The Haight-Ashbury could not accommodate this rapid influx of 
people, and the neighborhood scene quickly deteriorated. Overcrowding, 
homelessness, hunger, drug problems, and crime afflicted the neighborhood. 
Many people simply left in the fall to resume their college studies.[24] 
On October 6, 1967, those remaining in the Haight staged a mock funeral, 
"The Death of the Hippie" ceremony.[26] Mary Kasper explained the message 
of the mock funeral as follows: We wanted to signal that this was the end 
of it, don't come out. Stay where you are! Bring the revolution to where 
you live. Don't come here because it's over and done with.[27] After 1968, 
the area went into decline due to "an influx of hard drugs and a lack of 
police presence,"[28][29] but was improved and renewed in the late 1970s.[30] 
Throughout the 1980s, the Haight became an epicenter for the SF Comedy 
Scene when a small coffee house off Haight Street called The Other Café[31] 
(currently the restaurant Crepes on Cole) became a full-time comedy club 
that helped launch the careers of Robin Williams, Dana Carvey, and Whoopi 
Goldberg.[32] Also in the 1980s through the early 1990s, the I-Beam nightclub 
on Haight Street became a hot spot for modern rock dance music in San Francisco, 
and a popular venue for live performances by a litany of the world's best 
known new wave, punk, industrial, and indie bands. The Red Victorian hotel 
is a popular attraction. An independent theater of the same name operated 
about a block away from the hotel from 1980 to 2011.[33] The Haight-Ashbury 
Street Fair is held on the second Sunday of June each year attracting thousands 
of people, during which Haight Street is closed between Stanyan and Masonic 
