As player As manager As coach Harold Abraham McRae (/məˈkreɪ/; born July 
10, 1945) is a former left fielder in Major League Baseball who played 
for the Cincinnati Reds (1968, 1970–72) and Kansas City Royals (1973–87). 
Utilized as a designated hitter for most of his career, McRae batted and 
threw right-handed. He is the father of former major league outfielder 
Brian McRae. McRae was selected by the Reds in the 6th round of the 1965 
draft with the 117th overall pick. Then in the pre-1969 offseason, playing 
winter ball in Puerto Rico, McRae suffered a multiple leg fracture sliding 
on the basepaths. In the words of Bill James in The Bill James Historical 
Baseball Abstract, "Before the accident, McRae was a burner, a center fielder 
who could fly...after the accident, his speed was major league average." 
He was considered a below-average outfielder with the Reds. In spring training 
1969, McRae came to the Reds' camp with his leg still in a cast from the 
fracture. The same offseason, St. Louis Cardinals announcer Harry Caray 
had suffered multiple fractures being struck by a car while on foot. During 
a Reds-Cardinals preseason game where Caray was interviewing ballplayers 
on the field while still on crutches, Reds Manager Dave Bristol pointed 
in Caray's direction and said to McRae, "Look at that. There's an old man. 
Broke two legs. Broke his shoulder. Broke his everything. And here he is 
walking around doing his job, doing anything he wants. Here you are, all 
you did was break your leg sliding into second base, and you can't get 
your leg out of your goddam cast! You ought to be ashamed of yourself." 
McRae later mentioned to Caray that it was "one of the best motivational 
speeches he'd ever heard. He learned that he had to want to recover before 
he'd really be able to." Later in his career, Royals teammate Dan Quisenberry 
recalled, whenever a Royals player took time off because of injury, "McRae 
gets dressed like a commando, hides in a trash can in the clubhouse, and 
then jumps out and 'shoots' the guy...McRae believes that if a guy is hurt 
and can't play, he's dead to the club, so McRae shoots him and kills him." 
In 1972, McRae was traded to the Royals along with Wayne Simpson in exchange 
for Roger Nelson and Richie Scheinblum. McRae developed as a consistent 
designated hitter in the American League. His playing career spanned 23 years, 
including 14 seasons with Kansas City. Selected a three-time All-Star, 
he hit over .300 six times for the Royals and was named Designated Hitter 
of the Year three times both by The Sporting News and the Associated Press. 
In 1976 McRae was on top of the AL batting title race going into the final 
game of the season, in which his teammate George Brett went 2-for-4 to 
clinch the title over McRae by a margin of less than .001; McRae finished 
second. Oddly, the other two of the top four finishers that season, the 
Minnesota Twins' Rod Carew and Lyman Bostock, played in that same game. 
After his recovery from the leg fracture, McRae became known as "the most 
aggressive baserunner of the 1970s," as quoted by James, "a man who left 
home plate thinking 'double' every time he hit the ball...he taught the 
younger players and reminded the veterans to take nothing for granted, 
and to take no prisoners on the bases." McRae played hard—so hard, in fact, 
that the rule requiring a runner to slide into second base when breaking 
up a double play is still referred to as the Hal McRae Rule in honor of 
the man whose cross-body blocks into second base broke up a lot of double 
plays and second basemen at the same time. In a 19-year major league career, 
McRae posted a .290 batting average (2091-for-7218) with 191 home runs, 
1097 RBI, 484 doubles, 65 triples and 109 stolen bases in 2084 games played. 
He added a .351 on-base percentage and a .454 slugging average for a combined 
.805 OPS. Following his playing retirement, McRae managed the Royals (1991–94) 
and Tampa Bay Devil Rays (2001–02). While managing the Royals, McRae was 
involved in an infamous incident after a game on April 26, 1993 (a 5–3 
loss against the Detroit Tigers) in which he lost his temper with reporters 
and trashed his entire office, throwing things off of his desk including 
a phone, which cut a reporter on impact, and yelling profanities at reporters. 
He also served as hitting coach for the Cincinnati Reds, Philadelphia Phillies, 
and St. Louis Cardinals. McRae, who won a World Series ring playing for 
Kansas City against the Cardinals in 1985, won a ring as a coach for the 
Cardinals when they defeated the Detroit Tigers in the 2006 World Series, 
