As player As manager Harold Homer Chase (February 13, 1883 – May 18, 1947), 
nicknamed "Prince Hal", was a first baseman and manager in Major League 
Baseball, widely viewed as the best fielder at his position. During his 
career, he played for the New York Highlanders (1905–1913), Chicago White 
Sox (1913–1914), Buffalo Blues (1914–1915), Cincinnati Reds (1916–1918), 
and New York Giants (1919). No lesser figures than Babe Ruth and Walter 
Johnson named Chase the best first baseman ever, and contemporary reports 
described his glovework as outstanding. He is sometimes considered the 
first true star of the franchise that would eventually become the New York 
Yankees. In 1981, 62 years after his last major league game, baseball historians 
Lawrence Ritter and Donald Honig included him in their book The 100 Greatest 
Baseball Players of All Time. Despite being an excellent hitter and his 
reputation as a peerless defensive player, Chase's legacy was tainted by 
a litany of corruption. He allegedly gambled on baseball games, and also 
engaged in suspicious play in order to throw games in which he played. 
Chase attended Santa Clara College, where he played baseball. He signed 
his first contract with the Los Angeles Angels of the Class-A Pacific Coast 
League in 1904. The New York Highlanders selected Chase from Los Angeles 
in the 1904 Rule 5 draft on October 4, 1904. Chase joined the Highlanders 
in 1905, and held out during March 1907, threatening to sign with the outlaw 
California League if the Highlanders did not increase his salary.[1][2] 
Though he agreed to join the Highlanders in April 1907,[3] he also insisted 
on playing in the California League during the winter.[4] After the Highlanders 
fired manager Clark Griffith during the 1908 season, Chase held out and 
insisted he would not play for new manager Kid Elberfeld.[5] Chase loved 
playing in the off season in California leagues, which he did nearly every 
year. And nearly every year, as the major league season approached, Chase 
looked for a way to remain playing in California. But due to the power 
of the National Agreement and insufficient finances of leagues and teams 
in California, Chase predictably returned to his major league team in honor 
of his contract.[6] Chase served as player–manager in 1910 and 1911. He 
signed a three-year contract with the Yankees before the 1913 season,[7] 
but they traded him to the Chicago White Sox for Babe Borton and Rollie 
Zeider on June 1, 1913. Before the 1914 season, Chase jumped from the White 
Sox to the Buffalo Blues of the Federal League. When Chase defected from 
the White Sox to the Federal League's Buffalo Blues, White Sox owner Charles 
Comiskey filed an injunction to prevent Chase from playing citing a violation 
of the reserve clause. Chase challenged the injunction in court and won, 
becoming one of the only players to successfully challenge the reserve 
clause. The ensuing animosity between Comiskey and Chase would effectively 
permanently bar Chase from playing again in the American League.[8] Following 
a spell in the short-lived Federal League, he went to the Reds. In 1916, 
Chase led the NL with a .339 batting average.[9] On February 19, 1919, 
the Reds traded Chase to the New York Giants for Walter Holke and Bill 
Rariden. Chase faced allegations of wrongdoing as early as 1910, when his 
manager, George Stallings, claimed that Chase was "laying down" in games. 
But Stallings was unpopular with the team, and Chase was slated to replace 
Stallings at the helm. Chase ultimately prevailed in the spat and became 
the manager of the team, at the age of 28, in 1911, a year he hit .315 
with 82 RBI. Chase was replaced as manager by Harry Wolverton, followed 
by Frank Chance in 1913. Chase battled injuries that impaired his play; 
many felt that Chase either would not or could not return to his previous 
form. Frank Chance stated that he worried that Chase was "laying down." 
Chance clarified that he was referring to the question whether Chase would 
put forth the effort necessary to overcome the current slump.[10] Chance 
benched Chase, who was batting .212. On June 1, the Yankees announced that 
Chase had been traded to the Chicago White Sox for two infielders of modest 
abilities, Rollie Zeider and Babe Borton.[11] There have been claims of 
wrongdoing by Chase during this era, but none have been substantiated.[12] 
Midway through the 1918 season, Chase allegedly paid pitcher Jimmy Ring 
$50 ($788 today) to throw a game against the Giants. After the end of the 
season, an unknown individual sent NL President John Heydler a copy of 
a $500 ($6,836 today) check that Chase received from a gambler for throwing 
a game in 1918 — the same year that he had acquitted Chase for throwing 
games. Rumors of him being the middleman between the players and the gamblers 
in the Black Sox Scandal have never been confirmed. A Chicago grand jury 
indicted him for his role in the scandal, but California refused extradition 
because of an incorrectly issued arrest warrant.[13] In 1920, while playing 
for the minor Mission League, he allegedly attempted to bribe Spider Baum, 
a pitcher for the Salt Lake Bees of the Pacific Coast League, to lose a 
game to the Los Angeles Angels. It turned out to be one of the last games 
he played in organized baseball. In the aftermath of the Black Sox Scandal, 
newly appointed Commissioner of Baseball Kenesaw Mountain Landis declared 
no player who threw a game or promised to throw a game would ever be allowed 
in baseball—effectively ending any realistic chance of Chase returning 
to the majors. For a time, Chase was player-manager of an outlaw team in 
Douglas, Arizona that included Buck Weaver, Chick Gandil and Lefty Williams. 
It was part of a league run by S.L.A. Marshall, who later said that Chase 
admitted to throwing a game. A few months later, he tore both Achilles 
tendons in a car accident. He later drifted to Mexico, where in 1925 he 
began making plans to organize a professional league. When American League 
president Ban Johnson got word of it, however, he pressured Mexican authorities 
to deport Chase. Despite his unsavory past, Chase received a certain amount 
of National Baseball Hall of Fame support early in its history. During 
the inaugural Hall of Fame balloting of 1936, Chase garnered 11 votes and 
was named on 4.9% of the ballots. This total was more votes than 18 future 
Hall of Famers including such greats as Connie Mack, Rube Marquard, Mordecai 
"Three Finger" Brown, Charlie Gehringer, and John McGraw as well as the 
banned Shoeless Joe Jackson.[14] In 1937, he received 18 votes (9%) which 
was more than 32 future Hall of Famers.[15] Chase was dropped from the 
ballot following the 1937 vote.[16] He never received the 75 percent support 
required for enshrinement, largely due to an informal agreement among the 
Hall of Fame voters that those deemed to have been banned from baseball 
should be ineligible for consideration. Chase spent the rest of his life 
drifting between Arizona and his native California, working numerous low-paying 
jobs. Later in life, he expressed considerable remorse for betting on baseball. 
He lived with his sister in Williams, California and died in a Colusa, 
California hospital at the age of 64.[9][17] In his day, Hal Chase was 
almost universally considered one of the best fielders in the game — not 
just at first base, but at any position, even compared to catchers and 
middle infielders. In his Historical Baseball Abstract, Bill James quotes 
a poem entitled "You Can't Escape 'Em": Sometimes a raw recruit in spring 
is not a pitching find; He has not Walter Johnson's wing, nor Matty's wonderous 
mind. He does not act like Harold Chase upon the fielding job, But you 
may find in such a case, he hits like Tyrus Cobb. Douglas Dewey and Nicholas 
Acocella's book on Chase, The Black Prince Of Baseball, talks about Chase's 
defensive abilities at length. He apparently made many spectacular plays 
that burnished his reputation as a glove wizard, but also committed 402 
errors at first in just ten seasons, making his career fielding average 
only .980, four points below average for the period (since Chase was known 
to throw games, it's impossible to know how many of these misplays were 
intentional). A more recent work by Bill James, Win Shares, suggested Chase 
was only a C-grade defensive player at first base. Analyst Sean Smith says 
on the Baseball-Reference.com website that Chase was below average defensively, 
