Hamden is a town in New Haven County, Connecticut, United States. The town's 
nickname is "The Land of the Sleeping Giant." The population was 60,960 
at the 2010 census.[1] Hamden is a suburb of the city of New Haven. The 
town of Hamden ranked #53 in the CNN Money list of "America's best small 
cities" in 2012. In 2008, Fortune Magazine and CNN Money picked Hamden 
as #33 on their "Best Place to Live and Launch" list, citing Hamden's great 
blend of urban and suburban lifestyles. The article also pointed out Hamden's 
exceptional education system as well as its "New England Charm".[2] Originally 
settled by Puritans as part of the town of New Haven, Hamden was purchased 
by William Christopher Reilly and the Reverend John Davenport in 1638 from 
the local Quinnipiack Native American tribe. It remained a part of New 
Haven until 1786 when 1,400 local residents incorporated the area as a 
separate town, naming it after the English statesman John Hampden. Largely 
developed as a nodal collection of village-like settlements (which remain 
distinct today), including Mount Carmel (home to Quinnipiac University), 
Whitneyville, Spring Glen, West Woods, and Highwood, Hamden has a long-standing 
industrial history. In 1798, four years after Eli Whitney began manufacturing 
the cotton gin in New Haven, he made arms for the U.S. government at a 
mill site in Hamden, where a waterfall provided a good source of power. 
At that site, Whitney introduced the modern era of mass production with 
the concept of interchangeable parts. The major thoroughfare through Hamden 
is named Whitney Avenue in honor of Eli Whitney, and it runs past Whitney's 
old factory, now the Eli Whitney Museum. Whitney constructed stone houses 
for his employees in the nearby area, which is still referred to as Whitneyville; 
this is believed to be the first example of employer-provided homes in 
U.S. history. In 1806, the dam that Eli Whitney built at the mill site 
was enlarged to create a reservoir, Lake Whitney. The first truss bridge 
in the United States was erected nearby over the Mill River in Whitneyville 
in 1823, but has since been replaced. The Farmington Canal, which ships 
traveled from New Haven northward, passed through Hamden between 1825 and 
1848 until it was supplanted by railroad travel. The canal right-of-way 
has become, in recent years, a popular walking and bicycling trail, passing 
by some of the well-preserved locks of the canal, as well as some of Hamden's 
oldest sites. Before its use as a walking and bicycling trail, many local 
residents rode their motocross bikes on the Farmington Canal. During the 
19th and early 20th centuries, Hamden received a steady influx of immigrants, 
most notably from Italy and Ireland. To this day, a large part of Greater 
New Haven's Italian-American community resides in Hamden. During the post-war 
period, Hamden underwent significant suburban development. Much of the 
southern section of town is urbanized and is difficult to distinguish from 
neighboring New Haven. The northern section of town, however, retains a 
more rural character, and has the distinct neighborhood of Mount Carmel. 
This area of town is the location of the unique Sleeping Giant hill formation 
that is the source of the town's nickname. According to the United States 
Census Bureau, the town has a total area of 33.3 square miles (86 km2), 
of which 32.8 square miles (85 km2) is land and 0.5 square miles (1.3 km2), 
or 1.62%, is water. The town features the Mill River, which runs from the 
northern part of town, is dammed to form Lake Whitney, and flows from there 
to Long Island Sound. The town also has the Quinnipiac River and Lake Wintergreen, 
as well as numerous small streams. The Town Hall at the center of Hamden 
has a distinctive appearance. The rotunda includes commemorative stained 
glass windows. Across the street is Freedom Park, which contains a fountain 
with concrete stepping stones leading to a sign that pleads for peace in 
several different languages. The Town recently completed new facilities 
for the police and fire departments in the newly renovated Town Hall. Hamden 
was host to the Ghost Parking Lot, a notable roadside public art installation 
located in front of the Hamden Plaza shopping center in Hamden's commercial 
district on Dixwell Avenue. Erected in 1978, it consisted of 15 car hulks, 
specially treated and encased in asphalt. Although featured in over 100 
art books, the attraction was torn down in 2003 due to the excessive cost 
of restoration and repair.[4][5] Hamden is bordered by six other towns:[6] 
Hamden is governed by a mayor-council form of government, with a 15-member 
legislative council. Six councilors are elected at large while the other 
nine are elected by district. Town elections are held biennially during 
odd years in November. Other elected positions in the town government are 
the Town Clerk and members of the Board of Education. Positions in the 
various town boards and commissions are generally appointed by the Mayor 
subject to approval by the Legislative Council. Curt Balzano Leng became 
mayor in 2015 in a special election. Past mayors of Hamden are: John DeNicola 
Sr. was the town's last first selectman before becoming the town’s first 
mayor, in November 1965. The main industries in the town are retail trade, 
computer products, manufacture of wire and cable, concrete, pump mixer 
products, fabricated metals, construction and business services. Business 
services account for 49.4% of employment in the town, with retail trade 
accounting for 22.8%, and manufacturing accounting for 9.6%. The top four 
major employers are the Town government and school district, Quinnipiac 
University, Harborside Health Care, and Area Cooperative Education Services 
(ACES). Shaw's Supermarket was one of the top five major employers, but 
the Hamden Shaw's was sold to ShopRite in a sale of Shaw's Connecticut 
stores announced on February 13, 2010.[7] The Shaw's supermarket has been 
shut down and the new ShopRite store has opened. Hamden is a residential 
suburb for New Haven, with more residents commuting to work in New Haven 
than residents working in Hamden. The Wilbur Cross Parkway runs through 
the center of the town serving as a connection to Hartford to the north 
and the New York metropolitan area to the south. The town is connected 
to Interstate 91 via Connecticut Route 40, a spur expressway to the Mount 
Carmel section of town. The main route from the town center to New Haven 
passing through the commercial areas of Hamden is Dixwell Avenue (Route 
10). Another route to New Haven via the Spring Glen and Whitneyville residential 
neighborhoods is Whitney Avenue. Public transportation is provided by Connecticut 
Transit New Haven. The main bus routes in the town are the Dixwell Avenue 
(D) and the Whitney Avenue (J) routes. Other secondary routes serving the 
town are the State Street (M) and Winchester Avenue (O) bus routes. North 
Haven Station, a station on the planned Hartford Line, is planned be built 
next to the Hamden–North Haven border near the Route 40 Connector, serving 
both towns.[8] The public school district for the town, Hamden Public Schools, 
operates eight elementary schools, a middle school, and a high school, 
enrolling a total of about 6,000 students.[9] In addition to the town's 
public schools, Hamden is the site of two magnet schools, Wintergreen Magnet 
School (Kindergarten through grade 8) and Highville Mustard Seed Charter 
School (high school). Eli Whitney Technical High School is located in Hamden. 
Hamden is home to several private and religious schools, including: Within 
the town limits, there are 16 banks, six lodging facilities, and 29 day 
care facilities. There are no hospitals in the town, although it is close 
to the major hospitals in New Haven. In 2004, the crime rate was 2,084 
per 100,000 residents, lower than the statewide average of 2,981 per 100,000 
residents. The town library has 166,358 volumes (as of 2001). Electricity 
in the town is provided by the United Illuminating company; natural gas 
is provided by the Southern Connecticut Gas company; the water provider 
is the South Central Connecticut Regional Water Authority; Cable TV is 
provided by Comcast of New Haven. There are several parks and museums located 
in Hamden. Hamden Town Center Park hosts fireworks, free concerts, outdoor 
movies, and other seasonal festivals. Other parks include the Eli Whitney 
Museum in Whitneyville, Ireland’s Great Hunger Museum, parts of West Rock 
Ridge State Park (including Lake Wintergreen) and East Rock Park (including 
the Pardee Rose Garden), and the Sleeping Giant State Park. The Farmington 
Canal Trail runs through the town. Two blue-blazed hiking trails, the Quinnipiac 
Trail and the Regicides Trail, also run through the town. The Jonathan 
Dickerman House, listed on the National Register of Historic Places, is 
located in Mount Carmel. Hamden also has an all-volunteer orchestra, the 
Hamden Symphony Orchestra, providing concerts throughout the year. As of 
the census[12] of 2010, there were 60,690 people, 23,727 households, and 
14,300 families residing in the town. The population density was 1,867.3 
people per square mile (721.0/km²). There were 25,114 housing units at 
an average density of 769.2 per square mile (297.0/km²). The racial makeup 
of the town was 68.45% White, 20.19% African American, 0.15% Native American, 
5.47% Asian, 0.03% Pacific Islander, 3.00% from other races, and 2.72% 
from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 8.74% of the 
population. There were 23,727 households out of which 25.3% had children 
under the age of 18 living with them, 44.4% were married couples living 
together, 12.5% had a female householder with no husband present, and 39.7% 
were non-families. 31.2% of all households were made up of individuals 
and 12.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The 
average household size was 2.37 and the average family size was 3.01. In 
the town the population was spread out with 24.4% under the age of 20, 
10.6% from 20 to 24, 24.6% from 25 to 44, 25.4% from 45 to 64, and 15.0% 
who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 37.4 years. For every 
100 females there were 82.6 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, 
there were 80.7 males. The median income for a household in the town was 
$66,695, and the median income for a family was $88,613. The per capita 
income for the town was $34,596. About 3.8% of families and 6.8% of the 
population were below the poverty line, including 6.3% of those under age 
18 and 5.4% of those age 65 or over. Woodbridge *Consolidated borough and 
