Hamilton (/ˈhæməltən/; 2011 population 519,949; UA population 670,580; 
CMA population 721,053)[a] is a port city in the Canadian province of Ontario. 
Conceived by George Hamilton when he purchased the Durand farm shortly 
after the War of 1812,[10] Hamilton has become the centre of a densely 
populated and industrialized region at the west end of Lake Ontario known 
as the Golden Horseshoe. On January 1, 2001, the new City of Hamilton was 
formed through the amalgamation of the former city and the other constituent 
lower-tier municipalities of the Regional Municipality of Hamilton-Wentworth 
with the upper-tier regional government.[11] Residents of the old city 
are known as Hamiltonians.[12] Since 1981, the metropolitan area has been 
listed as the ninth largest in Canada and the third largest in Ontario. 
Hamilton is home to the Royal Botanical Gardens, the Canadian Warplane 
Heritage Museum, the Bruce Trail, McMaster University and Mohawk College. 
McMaster University is ranked 4th in Canada and 94th in the world by Times 
Higher Education Rankings 2015-16 and has a well-known medical school.[13] 
The Canadian Football Hall of Fame can be found downtown right beside Hamilton 
City Hall and across town to the east, the Canadian Football League's Hamilton 
Tiger-Cats began playing at the new Tim Hortons Field in 2014, which was 
built as part of the 2015 Pan American Games. Possibly because of its diverse 
environment, numerous TV and film productions have been filmed in Hamilton, 
regulated by the Hamilton Film and Television Office.[14] A growing arts 
and culture community garnered media attention in 2006 when the Globe and 
Mail published an article called "Go West, Young Artist" about Hamilton's 
growing art scene. The article highlighted local art galleries, recording 
studios and independent film production.[15] In pre-colonial times, the 
Neutral Indians used much of the land but were gradually driven out by 
the Five (later Six) Nations (Iroquois) who were allied with the British 
against the Huron and their French allies. A member of the Iroquois Confederacy 
provided the route and name for Mohawk Road, which originally included 
King Street in the lower city. In 1784, about 10,000 United Empire Loyalists 
settled in Upper Canada (what is now southern Ontario), chiefly in Niagara, 
around the Bay of Quinte, and along the St. Lawrence River between Lake 
Ontario and Montreal. They were soon followed by many more Americans, some 
of them not so much ardent loyalists but attracted nonetheless by the availability 
of inexpensive, arable land. At the same time, large numbers of Iroquois 
loyal to Britain arrived from the United States and were settled on reserves 
west of Lake Ontario.[16] The town of Hamilton was conceived by George 
Hamilton (a son of a Queenston entrepreneur and founder, Robert Hamilton), 
when he purchased farm holdings of James Durand, the local Member of the 
British Legislative Assembly, shortly after the War of 1812.[10] Nathaniel 
Hughson, a property owner to the north, cooperated with George Hamilton 
to prepare a proposal for a courthouse and jail on Hamilton's property. 
Hamilton offered the land to the crown for the future site. Durand was 
empowered by Hughson and Hamilton to sell property holdings which later 
became the site of the town. As he had been instructed, Durand circulated 
the offers at York during a session of the Legislative Assembly and a new 
Gore District was established of which the Hamilton townsite was a member.[10] 
Initially, this town was not the most important centre of the Gore District. 
A permanent jail was not constructed until 1832 when a cut-stone design 
was completed on one of the two squares created in 1816, Prince's Square.[10] 
Subsequently, the first police board and the town limits were defined by 
statute on February 13, 1833.[17] Official City status was achieved on 
June 9, 1846, by an act of Parliament, 9 Victoria Chapter 73.[4] As the 
city grew, several prominent buildings were constructed in the late 19th 
century, including the Grand Lodge of Canada in 1855,[18] West Flamboro 
Methodist Church in 1879 (later purchased by Dufferin Masonic Lodge in 
1893[19]), a public library in 1890, and the Right House department store 
in 1893. The first commercial telephone service in Canada, the first telephone 
exchange in the British Empire, and the second telephone exchange in all 
of North America all were established in the city between 1877–78.[20] 
The city had several interurban electric street railways and two inclines, 
all powered by the Cataract Power Co.[21] Though suffering through the 
Hamilton Street Railway strike of 1906, with industrial businesses expanding, 
Hamilton's population doubled between 1900 and 1914. Two steel manufacturing 
companies, Stelco and Dofasco, were formed in 1910 and 1912, respectively, 
and Procter & Gamble and the Beech-Nut Packing Company opened manufacturing 
plants in 1914 and 1922, respectively, their first outside the US.[22] 
Population and economic growth continued until the 1960s, with the 1929 
construction of the city's first high-rise building, the Pigott Building, 
the move of McMaster University from Toronto to Hamilton, the opening of 
the second Canadian Tire store in Canada in 1934, an airport in 1940, a 
Studebaker assembly line in 1948,[23] the Burlington Bay James N. Allan 
Skyway in 1958, and the first Tim Hortons store in 1964. Since then, many 
of the large industries have moved or shut down operations[22] and the 
economy has shifted more toward the service sector, such as transportation, 
education, and health services. On January 1, 2001, the new city of Hamilton 
was formed from the amalgamation of Hamilton and its five neighbouring 
municipalities: Ancaster, Dundas, Flamborough, Glanbrook, and Stoney Creek.[11] 
Before amalgamation, the "old" City of Hamilton had 331,121 Hamiltonians 
divided into 100 neighbourhoods. The former region of Hamilton-Wentworth 
had a population of 490,268. The amalgamation created a single-tier municipal 
government ending subsidization of its suburbs. The new amalgamated city 
has 519,949 people in over 100 old neighbourhoods, and surrounding communities.[24] 
The city experienced a devastating fire at the Plastimet plastics plant 
in 1997.[25] Approximately 300 firefighters battled the blaze, and many 
sustained severe chemical burns and inhaled volatile organic compounds 
when at least 400 tonnes of PVC plastic were consumed in the fire.[26] 
Hamilton is located in Southern Ontario on the western end of the Niagara 
Peninsula and wraps around the westernmost part of Lake Ontario; most of 
the city, including the downtown section, is on the south shore. Hamilton 
is situated in the geographic centre of the Golden Horseshoe and is roughly 
the midway point between Toronto and Buffalo, New York, although slightly 
closer to the former. Its major physical features are Hamilton Harbour, 
marking the northern limit of the city, and the Niagara Escarpment running 
through the middle of the city across its entire breadth, bisecting the 
city into "upper" and "lower" parts. The maximum high point is 250m (820') 
above the level of Lake Ontario.[27] According to all records from local 
historians, this district was called Attiwandaronia by the native Neutral 
people.[28] The first aboriginals to settle in the Hamilton area called 
the bay Macassa, meaning "beautiful waters".[24] Hamilton is one of 11 
cities showcased in the book, Green City: People, Nature & Urban Places 
by Quebec author Mary Soderstrom, which examines the city as an example 
of an industrial powerhouse co-existing with nature.[29] Soderstrom credits 
Thomas McQuesten and family in the 1930s who "became champions of parks, 
greenspace and roads" in Hamilton.[30] Hamilton Harbour is a natural harbour 
with a large sandbar called the Beachstrip. This sandbar was deposited 
during a period of higher lake levels during the last ice age, and extends 
southeast through the central lower city to the escarpment. Hamilton's 
deep sea port is accessed by ship canal through the beach strip into the 
harbour and is traversed by two bridges, the QEW's Burlington Bay James 
N. Allan Skyway and the lower Canal Lift Bridge.[31] Between 1788 and 1793, 
the townships at the Head-of-the-Lake were surveyed and named. The area 
was first known as The Head-of-the-Lake for its location at the western 
end of Lake Ontario.[20] John Ryckman, born in Barton township (where present 
day downtown Hamilton is), described the area in 1803 as he remembered 
it: "The city in 1803 was all forest. The shores of the bay were difficult 
to reach or see because they were hidden by a thick, almost impenetrable 
mass of trees and undergrowth ... Bears ate pigs, so settlers warred on 
bears. Wolves gobbled sheep and geese, so they hunted and trapped wolves. 
They also held organized raids on rattlesnakes on the mountainside. There 
was plenty of game. Many a time have I seen (sic) a deer jump the fence 
into my back yard, and there were millions of pigeons which we clubbed 
as they flew low."[32] George Hamilton, a settler and local politician, 
established a town site in the northern portion of Barton Township in 1815. 
He kept several east–west roads which were originally Indian trails, but 
the north–south streets were on a regular grid pattern. Streets were designated 
"East" or "West" if they crossed James Street or Highway 6. Streets were 
designated "North" or "South" if they crossed King Street or Highway 8.[33] 
The overall design of the townsite, likely conceived in 1816, was commonplace. 
George Hamilton employed a grid street pattern used in most towns in Upper 
Canada and throughout the American frontier. The eighty original lots had 
frontages of fifty feet; each lot faced a broad street and backed onto 
a twelve-foot lane. It took at least a decade for all of the original lots 
to be sold, but the construction of the Burlington Canal in 1823, and a 
new court-house in 1827, encouraged Hamilton to add more blocks around 
1828–9. At this time, he included a market square in an effort to draw 
commercial activity onto his lands, but the natural growth of the town 
was to the north of Hamilton's plot.[34] The Hamilton Conservation Authority 
owns, leases or manages about 4,500 hectares (11,100 acres) of land with 
the city operating 1,077 hectares (2,661 acres) of parkland at 310 locations.[35][36] 
Many of the parks are located along the Niagara Escarpment, which runs 
from Tobermory at the tip of the Bruce Peninsula in the north, to Queenston 
at the Niagara River in the south, and provides views of the cities and 
towns at the western end of Lake Ontario. The hiking path Bruce Trail runs 
the length of the escarpment.[37] Hamilton is home to more than 100 waterfalls 
and cascades, most of which are on or near the Bruce Trail as it winds 
through the Niagara Escarpment.[38] Hamilton's climate is humid-continental, 
characterized by changeable weather patterns. However, its climate is moderate 
compared with most of Canada. Hamilton's location on an embayment at the 
southwestern corner of Lake Ontario with an escarpment dividing upper and 
lower parts of the city results in noticeable disparities in weather over 
short distances. This is also the case with pollution levels, which depending 
on localized winds patterns or low clouds can be high in certain areas 
mostly originating from the city's steel industry mixed with regional vehicle 
pollution. With a July average of exactly 22.0 °C (71.6 °F),[39] the lower 
city is located in a pocket of the Dfa climate zone found at the southwestern 
end of Lake Ontario (between Hamilton and Toronto and eastward into the 
Niagara Peninsula), while the upper reaches of the city fall into the Dfb 
climate zone. The airport's open, rural location and higher altitude (240m 
vs. 85m ASL downtown) results in lower temperatures, generally windier 
conditions and higher snowfall amounts than lower, built-up areas of the 
city. One exception is on early spring afternoons; when colder than air 
lake temperatures keep shoreline areas significantly cooler, under the 
presence of an east or north-east onshore flow. The highest temperature 
ever recorded in Hamilton was 41.1 °C (106 °F) on 14 July 1868.[40] The 
coldest temperature ever recorded was -30.6 °C (-23 °F) on 25 January 1884.[41] 
According to the 2006 Canadian Census, more than 20 percent of the local 
population was not born in Canada. This is the third highest such proportion 
in Canada after Toronto at 49%, and Vancouver at 39%. Between 2001 and 
2006, the foreign-born population increased by 7.7% while the total population 
of the Hamilton census metropolitan area (CMA) grew by 4.3%. The share 
of Canada's recent immigrants who settle in Hamilton has remained unchanged 
since 2001 at 1.9%. Hamilton was home to 20,800 immigrants who arrived 
in Canada between 2001 and 2006, half of whom were born in Asia and the 
Middle East, while nearly one-quarter (23%) were from Europe. Hamilton 
also had a high proportion of people with Italian, English, Scottish, German 
and Irish ancestry. Nearly three in ten residents reported English as their 
sole ethnic origin or as one of their ancestral origins. As well, nearly 
one in five reported Scottish ancestry either alone or in combination with 
another ethnic origin.[47] The Canada 2011 Census short form did not include 
questions on ethnic background or national origin. However, the 2011 National 
Household Survey (NHS) (a voluntary survey that accompanied the census) 
produced the following data:[48] In February 2014, the city's council voted 
to declare Hamilton a sanctuary city, offering municipal services to undocumented 
immigrants at risk of deportation.[49][50] Hamilton also has a large French 
community for which provincial services are offered in French. In Ontario, 
urban centres where there are at least 5000 Francophones or where at least 
10% of the population is francophone are designated areas where bilingual 
provincial services have to be offered. According to the latest statistics, 
the Francophone community grew by 50% between 2006 and 2011 in Hamilton, 
and in the city, 45,000 citizens claim to have knowledge of both official 
languages, amongst which 13,000 have French as a mother tongue. The Franco-Ontarian 
community of Hamilton boasts two schoolboards (Conseil scolaire Viamonde 
and Conseil scolaire de district catholique Centre-Sud) five schools (2 
secondary and 3 elementary), a community health centre that is part of 
the LHIN (Centre de santé communautaire Hamilton/Niagara), a cultural centre 
(Centre français Hamilton), three daycare centres, a provincially funded 
employment centre (Options Emploi), a community college site (Collège Boréal) 
and a community organization that supports the development of the francophone 
community in Hamilton (ACFO Régionale Hamilton). The top countries of birth 
for the newcomers living in Hamilton in the 1990s were: former Yugoslavia, 
Poland, India, China, the Philippines, and Iraq.[51] Children aged 14 years 
and under accounted for 17.8% of the population while those 65 years of 
age and older constituted 14.9%, resulting in an average age of 39.6 years.[52] 
The most described religion in Hamilton is Christianity although other 
religions brought by immigrants are also growing. The 2011 census indicates 
that 67.6% of the population adheres to a Christian denomination, with 
Catholics being the largest at 34.3% of the city's population. The Christ 
the King Cathedral is the seat of the Diocese of Hamilton. Other denominations 
include the United Church (6.5%), Anglican (6.4%), Presbyterian (3.1%), 
Christian Orthodox (2.9%), and other denominations (9.8%). Other religions 
with significant populations include Islam (3.7%), Buddhist (0.9%), Sikh 
(0.8%), Hindu (0.8%), and Jewish (0.7%). Those with no religious affiliation 
accounted for 24.9% of the population.[53] Environics Analytics, a geodemographic 
marketing firm that created 66 different "clusters" of people complete 
with profiles of how they live, what they think and what they consume, 
sees a future Hamilton with younger upscale Hamiltonians—who are tech savvy 
and university educated—choosing to live in the downtown and surrounding 
areas rather than just visiting intermittently. More two and three-storey 
townhouses and apartments will be built on downtown lots; small condos 
will be built on vacant spaces in areas such as Dundas, Ainslie Wood and 
Westdale to accommodate newly retired seniors; and more retail and commercial 
zones will be created. The city is also expected to grow by more than 28,000 
people and 18,000 households by the year 2012.[54] The following data are 
recorded by the 2011 NHS survey: The most important economic activity in 
Ontario is manufacturing, and the Toronto–Hamilton region is the most highly 
industrialized section of the country. The area from Oshawa, Ontario around 
the west end of Lake Ontario to Niagara Falls, with Hamilton at its centre, 
is known as the Golden Horseshoe and had a population of approximately 
8.1 million people in 2006.[56] The phrase was first used by Westinghouse 
President Herbert H. Rogge in a speech to the Hamilton Chamber of Commerce, 
on January 12, 1954. "Hamilton in 50 years will be the forward cleat in 
a golden horseshoe of industrial development from Oshawa to the Niagara 
River ... 150 miles long and 50 miles (80 km) wide...It will run from Niagara 
Falls on the south to about Oshawa on the north and take in numerous cities 
and towns already there, including Hamilton and Toronto."[57] With sixty 
percent of Canada's steel being produced in Hamilton by Stelco and Dofasco, 
the city has become known as the Steel Capital of Canada.[58] After nearly 
declaring bankruptcy, Stelco returned to profitability in 2004.[59] On 
August 26, 2007 United States Steel Corporation acquired Stelco for C$38.50 
in cash per share, owning more than 76 percent of Stelco's outstanding 
shares.[60] On September 17, 2014 US Steel Canada announced that it was 
applying for bankruptcy protection and that it would be closing down its 
Hamilton operations.[61] Dofasco, in 1999, was the most profitable steel 
producer in North America and in 2000, the most profitable in Canada. It 
currently has approximately 7,300 employees at its Hamilton plant and produces 
over four million tons of steel annually, representing about 30% of Canada's 
flat rolled sheet steel shipments. Dofasco is one of North America's most 
profitable steel companies, and Dofasco was named to the Dow Jones Sustainability 
World Index in 2006 for the seventh year in a row. Dofasco produces steel 
products for the automotive, construction, energy, manufacturing, pipe 
and tube, appliance, packaging and steel distribution industries.[62] Dofasco 
is currently a stand alone subsidiary of Arcelor Mittal, the world's largest 
steel producer. Previously ordered by the U.S. Department of Justice to 
divest itself of the Canadian company, Arcelor Mittal has now been allowed 
to retain Dofasco provided it sells several of its American assets instead.[63] 
Originally, in the 1940s, the John C. Munro Hamilton International Airport 
was used as a wartime air force training station. Today TradePort International 
Corporation manages and operates the John C. Munro Hamilton International 
Airport. Under TradePort management, passenger traffic at the Hamilton 
terminal has increased from 90,000 in 1996 to approximately 900,000 in 
2002. The airport's mid-term target for growth in its passenger service 
is five million air travelers annually. The air cargo sector of the airport 
has 24–7 operational capability and strategic geographic location, allowing 
its capacity to increase by 50% since 1996; 91,000 metric tonnes (100,000 tons) 
of cargo passed through the airport in 2002. Courier companies with operations 
at the airport include United Parcel Service and Cargojet Canada.[64] In 
2003, the city began developing a 30-year growth management strategy which 
called, in part, for a massive aerotropolis industrial park centred on 
Hamilton Airport. The aerotropolis proposal, now known as the Airport Employment 
Growth District, is touted as a solution to the city's shortage of employment 
lands.[65] Hamilton turned over operation of the airport to TradePort International 
Corp. in 1996. In 2007, YVR Airport Services (YVRAS), which runs the Vancouver 
International Airport, took over 100 percent ownership of TradePort in 
a $13-million deal. The airport is also home to the Canadian Warplane Heritage 
Museum. A report by Hemson Consulting identified an opportunity to develop 
1,000 hectares (2,500 acres) of greenfields (the size of the Royal Botanical 
Gardens) that could generate an estimated 90,000 jobs by 2031. A proposed 
aerotropolis industrial park at Highway 6 and 403, has been debated at 
City Hall for years. Opponents feel the city needs to do more investigation 
about the cost to taxpayers before embarking on the project.[66] When ranked 
on a "total crime severity index", Hamilton was 21st in Canada in 2011 
for a metropolitan area. This was an eight percent decrease from 2010.[67] 
Of note was Hamilton's second place rank for police-reported hate crimes 
in 2011.[68] Citizens of Hamilton are represented at all three levels of 
Canadian government. Following the 2015 Federal Election, representation 
in the Parliament of Canada will consist of five Members of Parliament 
representing the federal ridings of Hamilton West—Ancaster—Dundas, Hamilton 
Centre, Hamilton East—Stoney Creek, Hamilton Mountain, and Flamborough—Glanbrook. 
This election will mark the first occasion in which Hamilton will have 
five Members of Parliament representing areas wholly within Hamilton's 
city boundaries, with previous boundaries situating rural ridings across 
municipal lines.[69] Provincially, there are five elected Members of Provincial 
Parliament who serve in the Legislature of Ontario. Minister of Housing 
and Municipal Affairs, Ted McMeekin (Liberal), represents Ancaster—Dundas—Flamborough—Westdale. 
Leader of the Ontario New Democratic Party, Andrea Horwath, represents 
Hamilton Centre, Paul Miller (NDP) represents Hamilton East—Stoney Creek, 
and Monique Taylor (NDP) represents Hamilton Mountain. Former leader of 
the Progressive Conservative Party of Ontario, Tim Hudak, serves as MPP 
for Niagara West—Glanbrook.[70] Hamilton's municipal government consists 
of one mayor, elected city wide, and 15 city councillors, elected individually 
by each of the city's wards, to serve on the Hamilton City Council. Presently, 
Hamilton's mayor is Fred Eisenberger, elected on October 27, 2014 to a 
second, non-consecutive term.[71] Additionally, both Public and Catholic 
school board trustees are elected for defined areas ranging from two trustees 
for multiple wards to a single trustee for an individual ward. Municipal 
elections in Hamilton occur every four years, the last one occurring on 
October 27, 2014. The next scheduled municipal election will occur in October 
2018. The Hamilton City Council is granted authority to govern by the province 
through the Municipal Act of Ontario.[72] As with all municipalities, the 
Province of Ontario has supervisory privilege over the municipality and 
the power to redefine, restrict or expand the powers of all municipalities 
in Ontario. The Criminal Code of Canada is the chief piece of legislation 
defining criminal conduct and penalty. The Hamilton Police Service is chiefly 
responsible for the enforcement of federal and provincial law. Although 
the Hamilton Police Service has authority to enforce, bylaws passed by 
the Hamilton City Council are mainly enforced by Provincial Offences Officers 
employed by the City of Hamilton.[73] The Canadian Military maintains a 
presence in Hamilton, with the John Weir Foote Armoury located in the downtown 
core on James Street North, housing the Royal Hamilton Light Infantry as 
well as the 11th Field Hamilton-Wentworth Battery and the Argyll and Sutherland 
Highlanders of Canada. The Hamilton Reserve Barracks, located on Pier Nine, 
houses the naval reserve division HMCS Star, 23 Service Battalion and the 
23 Field Ambulance. Hamilton is home to several post-secondary institutions 
that have created numerous direct and indirect jobs in education and research. 
McMaster University moved to the city in 1930 and today has around 30,000 
enrolled students, of whom almost two-thirds come from outside the immediate 
Hamilton region.[74][75] Brock University of St. Catharines, Ontario has 
a satellite campus used primarily for teacher education located in Hamilton.[76] 
Colleges in Hamilton include: Public education for students from kindergarten 
through high school is administered by three school boards. The Hamilton-Wentworth 
District School Board manages 114 public schools,[81] while the Hamilton-Wentworth 
Catholic District School Board operates 55 schools in the greater Hamilton 
area.[82] The Conseil scolaire de district du Centre-Sud-Ouest operates 
one elementary and one secondary school (École secondaire Georges-P.-Vanier), 
and the Conseil scolaire de district catholique Centre-Sud operates two 
elementary schools and one secondary school. Calvin Christian School, Providence 
Christian School and Timothy Christian School are independent Christian 
elementary schools. Hamilton District Christian High School, Rehoboth Christian 
High School and Guido de Bres Christian High School are independent Christian 
high schools in the area. Both HDCH and Guido de Brès participate in the 
city's interscholastic athletics. Hillfield Strathallan College is located 
on the West Hamilton mountain and is a CAIS member, non-profit school for 
children from early Montessori ages through grade twelve. The Dundas Valley 
School of Art is an independent art school which has serviced the Hamilton 
region since 1964. Students range in age from 4 years old to senior citizens 
and enrollment as of February 2007 was close to 4,000. In 1998, a new full 
time diploma programme was launched as a joint venture with McMaster University. 
The faculty and staff are highly regarded regional artists.[83] The Hamilton 
Conservatory for the Arts is home to many of the area's talented young 
actors, dancers, musicians, singers and visual artists. The school is equipped 
with a keyboard studio, spacious dance studios, art and sculpting studios, 
gallery space and a 300 seat recital hall. HCA offers over 90 programs 
for ages 3–93, creating a "united nations" of arts under one roof.[84] 
The Hamilton Literacy Council is a non-profit organization that provides 
basic (grades 1–5 equivalent) training in reading, writing, and math to 
English-speaking adults. The council's service is free, private, and one-to-one. 
It started to assist adults with their literacy skills in 1973. Hamilton 
is home to two think tanks, the Centre for Cultural Renewal and Cardus, 
which deals with social architecture, culture, urbanology, economics and 
education and also publishes the LexView Policy Journal and Comment Magazine.[85] 
Hamilton has built on its historical and social background with attractions 
including the Canadian Warplane Heritage Museum, the HMCS Haida National 
Historic Site (Canada's most famous warship and the last remaining Tribal 
Class in the world),[86] Dundurn Castle (the residence of a Prime Minister 
of Upper Canada),[87] the Royal Botanical Gardens, the Canadian Football 
Hall of Fame, the African Lion Safari Park, the Cathedral of Christ the 
King, and the Workers' Arts and Heritage Centre.[88] Founded in 1914, the 
Art Gallery of Hamilton is Ontario's third largest public art gallery. 
The gallery has over 9,000 works in its permanent collection that focus 
on three areas: 19th century European, Historical Canadian and Contemporary 
Canadian.[89] The McMaster Museum of Art (MMA), founded at McMaster University 
in 1967, houses and exhibits the university's art collection of more than 
7,000 objects,[90] including historical, modern and contemporary art, the 
Levy Collection of Impressionist and Post Impressionist paintings, and 
a collection of over 300 German Expressionist prints. Hamilton has quite 
an active theatre scene, with the professional company Theatre Aquarius, 
plus long-time amateur companies, the Players' Guild of Hamilton and Hamilton 
Theatre Inc.. Many smaller theatre companies have also opened in the past 
decade, bringing a variety of theatre to the area. Growth in the arts and 
culture sector has garnered high level media attention for Hamilton. A 
Globe and Mail article in 2006, entitled "Go West, Young Artist," focused 
on the growing art scene in Hamilton.[15] The Factory: Hamilton Media Arts 
Centre,[91] opened up a new home on James Street North in 2006. Art galleries 
are springing up on many streets across the city: James Street, King William 
Street, Locke Street and King Street, to name a few. This, coupled with 
growth in the downtown condo market which is drawing people back to the 
core, is affecting the cultural fabric of the city. The opening of the 
Downtown Arts Centre[92] on Rebecca Street has spurred further creative 
activities in the core. The Community Centre for Media Arts[93] (CCMA) 
continues to operate in downtown Hamilton. The CCMA works with marginalized 
populations and combines new media services such as website development, 
graphic design, video, and information technology, with arts education 
and skills development programming.[94] The 2009 film Defendor, starring 
Woody Harrelson as a vigilante superhero, is implied to take place in Hamilton, 
referred to by its nickname of "Hammer Town" several times throughout the 
film. It was filmed in Hamilton and Toronto. In March 2015, Hamilton was 
host to the JUNO Awards,[95] which featured performances by Hedley, Alanis 
Morissette and Magic!. The award ceremony was held at the FirstOntario 
Centre in downtown Hamilton. During JUNOfest, hundreds of local acts performed 
across the city, bringing thousands of tourists. Hamilton was the host 
of Canada's first major international athletic event, the first Commonwealth 
Games (then called the British Empire Games) in 1930. Hamilton bid unsuccessfully 
for the Commonwealth Games in 2010, losing out to New Delhi in India.[97] 
On November 7, 2009, in Guadalajara, Mexico it was announced that Toronto 
would host the 2015 Pan Am Games after beating out two rival South American 
cities, Lima, Peru and Bogota, Colombia. The city of Hamilton co-hosted 
the Games with Toronto. Hamilton Mayor Fred Eisenberger said, "the Pan 
Am Games will provide a 'unique opportunity for Hamilton to renew major 
sport facilities giving Hamiltonians a multi-purpose stadium, a 50-metre 
swimming pool, and an international-calibre velodrome to enjoy for generations 
to come.'"[98] The Around the Bay Road Race circumnavigates Hamilton Harbour. 
Although it is not a marathon distance, it is the longest continuously 
held long distance foot race in North America.[99] The local newspaper 
also hosts the amateur Spectator Indoor Games.[99] Hamilton has representation 
in two professional sports leagues, the Canadian Football League and Major 
League Lacrosse. Its major sports complexes include Ivor Wynne Stadium 
and Copps Coliseum; Hamilton is also home to the Canadian Football Hall 
of Fame museum.[100] The museum hosts an annual induction event in a week-long 
celebration that includes school visits, a golf tournament, a formal induction 
dinner and concludes with the Hall of Fame game involving the local CFL 
Hamilton Tiger-Cats at Ivor Wynne Stadium.[101][102] In addition to team 
sports, Hamilton is also home to an auto race track, Flamboro Speedway 
and Canada's fastest half-mile harness horse racing track, Flamboro Downs.[103] 
Another auto race track, Cayuga International Speedway, is located near 
Hamilton in the Haldimand County community of Nelles Corners, situated 
between Hagersville and Cayuga.[104] Hamilton hosted an NHL team in the 
1920s called the Hamilton Tigers. The team folded after a players' strike 
in 1925.[105] Research in Motion CEO Jim Balsillie has shown interest in 
bringing another NHL team to southern Ontario. The NHL's Phoenix Coyotes 
filed for bankruptcy in 2009 and have included within their Chapter 11 
reorganization a plan to sell the team to Balsillie and move the team and 
its operations to Hamilton, Ontario.[106] In late September, however, the 
bankruptcy judge did not rule in favor of Balsillie. The city plans to 
continue their fight for an NHL team. Hamilton is a sister city with Flint, 
Michigan, and its young amateur athletes compete in the CANUSA Games, held 
alternatively in the two cities since 1958.[97] Flint and Hamilton hold 
the distinction of having the oldest continuous sister-city relationship 
between a U.S. and Canadian city, since 1957.[107] Other sister cities 
