Hammond Stadium is a baseball field located in the CenturyLink Sports Complex 
in South Fort Myers, Florida, United States. The stadium was built in 1991, 
and underwent major renovations in 2014[3] and 2015. The Spring Training 
home of the Minnesota Twins saw its seating capacity increased from 7,500 
to 9,300 in the spring of 2015.[4] Class A Advanced affiliate, the Fort 
Myers Miracle, of the Florida State League finished out their 2014 season 
and FSL championship at JetBlue Park (Spring home of the Boston Red Sox, 
also in Fort Myers) in order to get the renovations done in time for catchers 
& pitchers to report in 2015. The renovations will also increase the amount 
of walkable area, provide more shaded areas for sunny games[5] and an expanded 
gift shop, among other amenities for fans and players.[6] The Twins' Rookie 
League affiliate, the Gulf Coast League Twins also play in the CenturyLink 
Sports Complex, however, not usually at Hammond Stadium, but rather at 
the fields within the surrounding complex. The stadium is named in honor 
of retired Lee County Deputy Administrator William H. Hammond, Jr., who 
was instrumental in getting the Lee County Sports Complex (the name it 
was given prior to its renovations) built to draw the Twins from their 
previous Spring home, Orlando, Florida. Hammond Stadium's outer facade 
was designed with Churchill Downs in mind. The parking rows all feature 
streets signs named to honor former Twins greats--including Bert Blyleven, 
Kirby Puckett & Kent Hrbek. There is also a waterfall fountain near the 
stadium's entrance. The Twins won the World Series following their first 
Spring Training in Hammond Stadium. Their agreement with Lee County for 
use of the complex runs through 2012. The Florida State League held the 
48th annual Florida State League All-Star Game at Hammond Stadium in June 
2009. The previous time the league held their mid-summer classic in Fort 
Myers was 2003. Hammond Stadium & JetBlue Park are two of four Spring training 
facilities in Fort Myers. City of Palms Park and Terry Park Ballfield (also 
known as the Park T. Pigott Memorial Stadium) in East Fort Myers are currently 
not in use. City of Palms Park is the former Spring Training home of the 
Boston Red Sox, and Terry Park Ballfield is the former home of the Philadelphia 
Athletics, Cleveland Indians, Pittsburgh Pirates and Kansas City Royals. 
