Hampden–Sydney College, also known as H–SC, is a liberal arts college for 
men located in Hampden Sydney, Virginia, United States. Founded in 1775, 
Hampden–Sydney is the oldest private charter college in the Southern U.S., 
the 10th oldest college in the U.S., the last college founded before the 
American Revolution, and one of only three four-year, all-men's liberal 
arts colleges in the United States. Hampden–Sydney College is listed on 
the National Register of Historic Places and the Virginia Landmarks Register. 
Hampden–Sydney enrolls approximately 1,100 students from 30 states and 
several foreign countries and emphasizes a rigorous, traditional liberal 
arts curriculum.[4] Along with Wabash College and Morehouse College, Hampden–Sydney 
is one of only three remaining traditional all-male colleges in the United 
States and is noted as a highly regarded all-male institution of higher 
education in North America.[5] The school's mission is to "form good men 
and good citizens in an atmosphere of sound learning". As such, Hampden–Sydney 
has one of the strictest honor codes of any college or university. Upon 
entering as a student, each man pledges for life that he will not lie, 
cheat, steal, nor tolerate those who do. The pledge takes place during 
a ceremony in which the entering class sits in absolute silence while each 
man, when his name is called, comes forward and signs the pledge. This 
simply worded code of behavior applies to the students on and off campus. 
The Honor Code system is student-run, allowing for a trial of peers, adjudicated 
by a court of students. Students convicted of an honor offense face anywhere 
between 1 and 3 semesters of suspension or expulsion. Notably, a separate 
Code of Student Conduct covers "behavioral" infractions such as attempting 
to drink underage that do not rise to the level of an honor offense (which 
only arise if deception or theft is involved). Thus, in effect, a two-tier 
system of student discipline is maintained; the Code of Student Conduct 
(regarding policies on parking or drinking) is enforced by the Dean of 
Students' Office with the help of the Student Court while the Honor Code 
system (with more serious penalties for lying, cheating, or stealing) is 
maintained exclusively by the students themselves. Though grievous violation 
of the Code of Student Conduct may result in expulsion, it is rare that 
any student is expelled except by sentencing of the Honor Court. All Hampden–Sydney 
students must take a three-course Western Culture sequence, which introduces 
them to some of the great works and historical events from Greece and Rome 
through present times. There are few dedicated instructors of western culture. 
Instead the program draws on professors from all disciplines. This program 
is "the bedrock of Hampden–Sydney's liberal arts program and one of the 
most important of its core academic requirements." [6] Every student must 
prepare for and pass the Rhetoric Proficiency Exam, which consists of a 
three-hour essay that is graded for grammatical correctness and the coherence, 
quality, and style of the argument.[7] To prepare, the college requires 
each student to pass two rhetoric classes that are usually taken during 
the first two semesters. The rhetoric requirement is the same for students 
who decide to major in the humanities as for those who follow a course 
of studies in economics. After graduating, many alumni[who?] have stated 
that the Rhetoric Program was the most valuable aspect of the Hampden–Sydney 
education.[citation needed] The college's founder and first president, 
Samuel Stanhope Smith, was born in Pequea, Pennsylvania. He graduated as 
a valedictorian from the College of New Jersey in 1769, and he went on 
to study theology and philosophy under John Witherspoon, whose daughter 
he married on June 28, 1775. In his mid-twenties, working as a missionary 
in Virginia, Smith persuaded the Hanover Presbytery to found a school east 
of the Blue Ridge, which he referred to in his advertisement of September 
1, 1775 as “an Academy in Prince Edward...distinguished by the Name of 
HAMPDEN–SIDNEY".[8] The school, not then named, was always intended to 
be a college-level institution; later in the same advertisement, Smith 
explicitly likens its curriculum to that of the College of New Jersey (now 
Princeton University). “Academy” was a technical term used for college-level 
schools not run by the established church.[9] As the college history indicates 
on its web site, "The first president, at the suggestion of Dr. John Witherspoon, 
the Scottish president of the College of New Jersey (now Princeton University), 
chose the name Hampden–Sydney to symbolize devotion to the principles of 
representative government and full civil and religious freedom which John 
Hampden (1594–1643) and Algernon Sydney (1622–1683) had outspokenly supported, 
and for which they had given their lives, in England's two great constitutional 
crises of the previous century. They were widely invoked as hero-martyrs 
by American colonial patriots, and their names immediately associated the 
College with the cause of independence championed by James Madison, Patrick 
Henry, and other less well-known but equally vigorous patriots who composed 
the College's first Board of Trustees." Classes at Hampden–Sydney began 
in temporary wooden structures on November 10, 1775, on the eve of American 
Independence, moving into its three-story brick building early in 1776. 
The college has been in continuous operation since that date, operating 
under the British, Confederate, and United States flags. In fact, classes 
have only been canceled six times: for a Civil War skirmish on campus, 
for a hurricane that knocked a tree into a dormitory building, thrice due 
to snowstorms, and once for an outbreak of norovirus. Since the college 
was founded before the proclamation of the Declaration of Independence 
on July 4, 1776, it was eligible for an official coat of arms and armorial 
bearings from the College of Arms of the Royal Household of the United 
Kingdom. Through gifts from the F. M. Kirby Foundation, Professor John 
Brinkley ('59), in whose honor the "achievement of arms" was given, liaised 
with Mr. John Brooke-Little, then the Richmond Herald, in designing the 
arms for the college. The Latin text of the "letters patent" conferring 
the arms is dated July 4, 1976; Mr. Brooke-Little—who with the Queen's 
special permission appeared in full herald's uniform—made the presentation 
on Yorktown Day, October 19, 1976, at the college.[10] Despite the difficult 
and financially strapped first years resulting from the Revolutionary War, 
the college survived with sufficient viability to be granted a charter 
by the Virginia General Assembly in 1783—the oldest private charter in 
the South. Patrick Henry, then Governor of Virginia, encouraged the passage 
of the charter, and wrote into it an oath of allegiance to the new republic, 
required of all professors. The college was founded by alumni of Princeton 
University. Both Patrick Henry, who did not attend any college, and James 
Madison, a Princeton alumnus, were elected trustees in the founding period 
before classes began. Smith hired his brother, John Blair Smith, and two 
other recent Princeton graduates to teach. Samuel Stanhope Smith would 
later become president of Princeton University. John Blair Smith would 
become the second president of Hampden–Sydney and later the first president 
of Union College. Hampden–Sydney became a thriving college while located 
in southside Virginia, which led to expansion. In 1812, the Union Theological 
Seminary was founded at Hampden–Sydney College. The seminary was later 
moved to Richmond, Virginia and is currently the Union Theological Seminary 
& Presbyterian School of Christian Education. In 1838, the medical department 
of Hampden–Sydney College was founded—the Medical College of Virginia, 
which is now the MCV Campus of Virginia Commonwealth University. Among 
the early nineteenth-century leaders were John Holt Rice, who founded the 
seminary, Jonathan P. Cushing, and Reverend James Marsh. In those years 
the intellectual culture at HSC spanned from leading southern, anti-slavery 
writers like Jesse Burton Harrison and Lucian Minor to leading proslavery 
writers, such as George A. Baxter and Landon Garland.[12] During this time, 
the college constructed new buildings using Federal-style architecture 
with Georgian touches. This is the style of architecture still used on 
the campus. At the onset of the American Civil War, Hampden–Sydney students 
formed a company in the Virginia Militia. The Hampden–Sydney students did 
not see much action but rather were “captured, and...paroled by General 
George B. McClellan on the condition that they return to their studies".[13] 
During World War II, Hampden–Sydney College was one of 131 colleges and 
universities nationally that took part in the V-12 Navy College Training 
Program which offered students a path to a commission.[14] The college 
has hosted a wide array of noteworthy musicians. Bruce Springsteen, the 
Allman Brothers, Dave Matthews Band, Widespread Panic, Bruce Hornsby, Pretty 
Lights, and Government Mule were among the popular visitors to Hampden–Sydney 
throughout the latter half of the twentieth century. On May 11, 1964, Attorney 
General Robert F. Kennedy visited Hampden–Sydney College to speak with 
students.,[15] and U.S. Vice President George H.W. Bush gave the May 1985 
commencement address. Presumably under the influence of his mentor and 
father-in-law Witherspoon,[16] Smith named the college for two English 
champions of liberty, John Hampden (1594–1643) and Algernon Sydney (1622–1683). 
Hampden lost his life in the battle of Chalgrove Field during the English 
Civil War. Sydney, who wrote "Discourses Concerning Government", was beheaded 
by order of Charles II following his (unproven) implication in a failed 
attempt to overthrow the king. These proponents of religious and civil 
liberties were much admired by the founders of the college, all of whom 
were active supporters of the cause of American independence. The college 
has expanded from its original small cluster of buildings on 100 acres 
(0.4 km²) to a campus of over 1300 acres (5.25 km²). Before 2006, the college 
owned 660 acres (2.7 km²). In February 2006, the college purchased 400 
acres (1.6 km²) which include a lake and Slate Hill Plantation, the historic 
location of the college's founding. The campus is host to numerous federal 
style buildings. Part of the campus has been listed on the National Register 
of Historic Places as a historic district.[19] As one of only a few higher 
educational institutions for men, and being older than the nation in which 
it is located, Hampden–Sydney College has a unique culture. Students are 
also issued a copy of To Manner Born, To Manners Bred: A Hip-pocket Guide 
to Etiquette for the Hampden–Sydney Man,[20] which covers everything from 
basic manners, how to greet and introduce people, how to respond to invitations, 
how to dress, the difference between a black-tie and white-tie event, how 
to choose a wine, etc. The college publishes the book as a useful tool 
for existing successfully in a variety of social settings.[21] Tailgating 
is central to Hampden–Sydney's culture each fall and has been featured 
in Town and Country.[22] According to the college website, there are over 
40 clubs on campus. Each club is run by the students. There are political 
clubs, sports clubs, religious clubs, a student-run radio station, a pep 
band, and multiple social fraternities. There are also volunteer groups 
such as Habitat for Humanity and Rotaract. The college campus is home to 
a volunteer fire department, which provides fire suppression service and 
non-transport basic life support EMS to Prince Edward County and the college, 
as well as assisting the Farmville fire department at fires within the 
town limits. HSVFD, Company 2, is located on the south end of campus near 
the water tower and the physical plant. Contrary to popular belief, and 
despite its location and the fact that 90% of the membership comes from 
college faculty, staff, and students, the fire department is, in fact, 
not affiliated with the college.[23] Union-Philanthropic Literary Society 
(UPLS) is the oldest student organization at Hampden–Sydney College. Established 
on September 22, 1789, it is the nation's second oldest literary and debating 
society still in existence today. For freshmen, rush begins in the first 
semester and pledging takes place in the spring. If a student chooses not 
to rush and/or pledge as a freshman, sophomores and juniors may pledge 
in the fall or spring. Roughly 34% of the student body is involved in Greek 
life.[24] Beta Theta Pi used Atkinson Hall (built 1834) as a fraternity 
house when it came to campus in 1850 possibly making it one of the first 
fraternity houses in North America. Chi Psi is widely believed to have 
created the first fraternity house in 1845 at the University of Michigan.[25][26] 
The following Greek groups were active on campus as of December 2014[update]: 
In addition to the social and professional fraternities listed above, Hampden–Sydney 
also has chapters of Phi Beta Kappa, the Academic Honor Society;[31] Phi 
Alpha Theta, the national history honor society;[32] Pi Sigma Alpha, the 
national political science honor Society;[33] Omicron Delta Kappa, a national 
leadership honor society[34] and Alpha Psi Omega, a national honors society 
for theatre arts.[35] The Elliott House is reserved for Honor Students 
who choose to live there. Although an overwhelming majority of students 
live on campus or in campus-owned housing, the school does permit a small 
number of students (usually upperclassmen) to live off-campus. In addition, 
some students also rent rooms in local campus homes.[citation needed] Hampden–Sydney 
College teams participate as a member of the National Collegiate Athletic 
Association's Division III. The Tigers are a member of the Old Dominion 
Athletic Conference (ODAC). Men's sports include baseball, basketball, 
cross country, football, golf, lacrosse, soccer, swimming & diving and 
tennis. Hampden–Sydney's rivalry with Randolph-Macon College is one of 
the longest-running college rivalries in the United States. "The Game" 
is often referred to as the oldest small-school football rivalry in the 
South,[36] with the first match up having been played in 1893. Athletic 
events involving the two schools are fiercely competitive, and the week 
prior to "The Game" between Hampden–Sydney and Randolph-Macon is known 
as "Beat Macon Week".[37] The following is a list of the Presidents of 
Hampden–Sydney College from its opening in 1775 until the present.[38] 
