Handedness is a better (faster or more precise) performance or individual 
preference for use of a hand, known as the dominant hand.[1] Handedness 
is not a discrete variable (right or left), but a continuous one that can 
be expressed at levels between strong left and strong right.[2] There are 
four types of handedness: left-handedness, right-handedness, mixed-handedness, 
and ambidexterity.[1] Left-handedness is somewhat more common among men 
than among women.[3] There are several theories of how handedness develops 
in individual humans. Occurrences during prenatal development may be important; 
researchers studied fetuses in utero and determined that handedness in 
the womb was a very accurate predictor of handedness after birth.[6] In 
a 2013 study, 39% of infants (6 to 14 months) and 97% of toddlers (18 to 
24 months) demonstrated a hand preference.[7] One common theory, as to 
how handedness affects the hemispheres, is the brain hemisphere division 
of labor. Since speaking and handiwork require fine motor skills, its presumption 
is that it would be more efficient to have one brain hemisphere do both, 
rather than having it divided up. Since in most people, the left side of 
the brain controls speaking, right-handedness predominates. This theory 
also predicts that left-handed people have a reversed brain division of 
labor.[8] Verbal processing in right-handed individuals takes place mostly 
in the left hemisphere, whereas visuospatial processing is mostly done 
in the opposite hemisphere. Left-handed individuals have a heterogeneous 
brain organization in which their brain hemisphere is either organized 
in the same way as right-handers (but with the hemispheres reversed) or 
even such that both hemispheres are used for verbal processing. When the 
average is taken across all types of left-handedness, it shows that left-handers 
are less lateralized.[8] Handedness displays a complex inheritance pattern. 
For example, if both parents of a child are left-handed, there is a 26% 
chance of that child being left-handed.[9] A large study of twins from 
25,732 families by Medland et al. (2006) has indicated that the heritability 
of handedness is roughly 24%.[10] To date, two theoretical single gene 
models have been proposed to explain the patterns of inheritance of handedness, 
the first by Marian Annett[11] of the University of Leicester and the second 
by Professor Chris McManus[9] of UCL. However, the growing weight of evidence 
from linkage and genome-wide association studies suggests that genetic 
variance in handedness cannot be explained by a single genetic locus.[12][13][14][15][16][17][18][19] 
From these studies McManus et al. now conclude that handedness is polygenic 
and estimate that at least 40 loci contribute to determining this trait.[20] 
Brandler et al. performed a genome-wide association study for a measure 
of relative hand skill and found that genes involved in the determination 
of left/right asymmetry in the body play a key role in determining handedness.[21] 
These results suggests the same mechanisms that determine left/right asymmetry 
in the body (e.g. Nodal signaling and ciliogenesis) also play a role in 
the development of brain asymmetry (handedness is an outward reflection 
of brain asymmetry for motor function). A 2003 study endorsed by the Centers 
for Disease Control determine that males with in-utero exposure to diethylstilbestrol 
(a synthetic estrogen-based fertility drug) were more likely to be left-handed 
over the clinical control group. Diethylstilbestrol animal studies "suggest 
that estrogen affects the developing brain, including the part that governs 
sexual behavior and right and left dominance".[22] Previc, after reviewing 
a large number of studies, found evidence that the position of the fetus 
in the final trimester and a baby's subsequent birth position can affect 
handedness. About two-thirds of fetuses present with their left occiput 
(back of the head) at birth. This partly explains why prematurity results 
in a decrease in right-handedness. Previc argues that asymmetric prenatal 
positioning creates asymmetric stimulation of the vestibular system, which 
is involved in the development of handedness. In fact, every major disorder 
in which patients show reduced right-handedness is associated with either 
vestibular abnormalities or delay,[23] and asymmetry of the vestibular 
cortex is strongly correlated with the direction of handedness.[24] Another 
theory is that ultrasound may affect the brains of unborn children, causing 
higher rates of left-handedness in children whose mothers received ultrasounds 
during pregnancy. Research on this topic suggests there may exist a weak 
association between ultrasound screening (sonography used to check on the 
healthy development of the fetus and mother during pregnancy) and non-right-handedness.[25] 
In his book Right-Hand, Left-Hand, Chris McManus of University College 
London argues that the proportion of left-handers is increasing and left-handed 
people as a group have historically produced an above-average quota of 
high achievers. He says that left-handers' brains are structured differently 
(in a way that increases their range of abilities) and the genes that determine 
left-handedness also govern development of the language centers of the 
brain.[26] Writing in Scientific American, McManus states that, Studies 
in the U.K., U.S. and Australia have revealed that left-handed people differ 
from right-handers by only one IQ point, which is not noteworthy ... Left-handers’ 
brains are structured differently from right-handers’ in ways that can 
allow them to process language, spatial relations and emotions in more 
diverse and potentially creative ways. Also, a slightly larger number of 
left-handers than right-handers are especially gifted in music and math. 
A study of musicians in professional orchestras found a significantly greater 
proportion of talented left-handers, even among those who played instruments 
that seem designed for right-handers, such as violins. Similarly, studies 
of adolescents who took tests to assess mathematical giftedness found many 
more left-handers in the population.[27] According to a 2014 study published 
in the Harvard Gazette, right-handed people have higher cognitive skills, 
fewer behavioral and speech problems, less often have learning disabilities, 
and more often graduate their school.[28] Nelson, Campbell, and Michel 
studied infants and whether developing handedness during infancy correlated 
with language abilities in toddlers. In the article they assessed 38 infants 
and followed them through to 12 months and then again once they became 
toddlers from 18–24 months. What they discovered was that when a child 
developed a consistent use of its right or left hand during infancy (such 
as using the right hand to put the pacifier back in, or grasping random 
objects with the left hand), it was more likely to have superior language 
skills as a toddler. Children who became lateral later than infancy (i.e., 
when they were toddlers) showed normal development of language and had 
typical language scores.[29] The researchers used Bayley scales of infant 
and toddler development to assess all the subjects. Lower-birth-weight 
and complications at birth are positively correlated with left-handness.[28] 
An excess of non-right-handedness in schizophrenia is demonstrated as an 
empirical effect.[30] One systematic review concluded: "Left-handers showed 
no systematic tendency to suffer from disorders of the immune system".[31] 
These health problems mean left-handness should be eliminated through natural 
selection. However, left-handers enjoy an advantage in fighting and sports 
increasing their likelihood of reproduction.[32] In a 2006 U.S. study, 
researchers from Lafayette College and Johns Hopkins University concluded 
that there was no scientifically significant correlation between handedness 
and earnings for the general population, but among college-educated people, 
left-handers earned 10 to 15% more than their right-handed counterparts.[33] 
More recently, in a 2014 study published by the National Bureau of Economic 
Research, Harvard economist Joshua Goodman finds that left-handed people 
earn 10 to 12 percent less over the course of their lives than right-handed 
people. Goodman attributes this disparity to higher rates of emotional 
and behavioral problems in left-handed people.[34] Interactive sports such 
as table tennis, badminton, cricket, and tennis have an overrepresentation 
of left-handedness, while non-interactive sports such as swimming show 
no overrepresentation. Smaller physical distance between participants increases 
the overrepresentation. In fencing, about half the participants are left-handed.[35] 
The advantage to players in one-on-one sports, such as tennis, boxing, 
fencing or judo, is that, in a population containing perhaps 10% left-handers 
and 90% right-handers, the left-hander plays 90% of his or her games against 
right-handed opponents and is well-practiced at dealing with this asymmetry. 
Right-handers play 90% of their games against other right-handers. Thus, 
when confronted with left-handers, they are less practiced (see Rafael 
Nadal). When two left-handers compete against each other, they are both 
likely to be at the same level of practice as when right-handers play other 
right-handers. This explains why a disproportionately high number of left-handers 
are found in sports in which direct one-on-one action predominates.[citation 
needed][original research?] Other, sports-specific factors may increase 
or decrease the advantage left-handers usually hold in one-on-one situations: 
In sports in which one competitor's performance does not affect another's 
(except indirectly through subjectively perceived psychological pressure), 
a particular hand preference confers little or no advantage. Golf and miniature 
golf feature occasional situations when obstacles on one side of the ball 
but not the other interfere with the stance or swing of a right- or left-handed 
player but not the other's. Even so, the "favoritism" on any given course 
is probably minimal, especially at high levels of play: a layperson such 
as the owner of a small miniature golf business may, when placing obstacles, 
assess the results from only the perspective of his or her handedness, 
such that more courses would be made difficult for right-handers than for 
left-handers. However, a thoughtful designer—especially a professional 
in the field—is likely to ensure game balance by adding handedness-specific 
obstacles in equal numbers and in places of similar tactical importance.[citation 
needed] Left-handedness is more common among men than women. It is estimated 
that left-handedness is around 20% more common among men than women. [3] 
A number of studies examining the relationship between handedness and sexual 
orientation have reported that a disproportionate minority of homosexual 
people exhibit non-right-handedness,[42] though finds are mixed.[43][44][45] 
A 2001 study also found that children who were assigned male at birth but 
have non-traditional gender identities were more than twice as likely to 
be left-handed than a clinical control group (19.5% vs. 8.3%, respectively).[46] 
Paraphilias (atypical sexual interests) have also been linked to higher 
rates of non-right-handedness. A 2008 study analyzing the sexual fantasies 
of 200 males found "elevated paraphilic interests were correlated with 
elevated non-right handedness."[47] Greater rates of non-right-handedness 
has also been documented among individuals who have pedophilia.[48][49][50][51] 
A 2014 study attempting to analyze the biological markers of asexuality 
asserts that non-sexual men and women were 2.4 and 2.5 times, respectively, 
more likely to be non-right-handed than their heterosexual counterparts.[52] 
Many tools and procedures are designed to facilitate use by right-handed 
people, often without even realizing difficulties placed on the left-handed. 
John W. Santrock has written, "For centuries, left-handers have suffered 
unfair discrimination in a world designed for right-handers."[53] McManus 
noted that, beginning at the time of the Industrial Revolution, workers 
needed to operate complex machines that were almost certainly designed 
with right-handers in mind. This would have made left-handers more visible 
and at the same time appear less capable and more clumsy. During this era, 
children were taught to write with a dip pen. While a right-hander could 
smoothly drag the pen across paper from left to right, a dip pen could 
not easily be pushed across by the left hand without digging into the paper 
and making blots and stains.[54] Moreover, apart from inconvenience, left-handed 
people have been considered unlucky or even malicious for their difference 
by the right-handed majority. In many European languages, including English, 
the word for the direction "right" also means "correct" or "proper". Throughout 
history, being left-handed was considered negative. The Latin adjective 
sinister means "left" as well as "unlucky", and this double meaning survives 
in European derivatives of Latin, including the English word "sinister" 
(only when referring to the bearer's left of a coat of arms). There are 
many negative connotations associated with the phrase "left-handed": clumsy, 
awkward, unlucky, insincere, sinister, malicious, and so on. A "left-handed 
compliment" is considered one that is unflattering or dismissive in meaning. 
In French, gauche means both "left" and "awkward" or "clumsy", while droit(e) 
(cognate to English direct and related to "adroit") means both "right" 
and "straight", as well as "law" and the legal sense of "right". The name 
"Dexter" derives from the Latin for "right", as does the word "dexterity" 
meaning manual skill. As these are all very old words, they would tend 
to support theories indicating that the predominance of right-handedness 
is an extremely old phenomenon. Black magic is sometimes referred to as 
the "left-hand path". Until very recently in Taiwan (and still in Mainland 
China), left-handed people were strongly encouraged to switch to being 
right-handed, or at least switch to writing with the right hand. Due to 
the importance of stroke order, developed for the comfortable use of right-handed 
people, it is considered more difficult to write legible Chinese characters 
with the left hand than it is to write Latin letters, though difficulty 
is subjective and depends on the writer.[55] Because writing when moving 
one's hand away from its side towards the other side of the body can cause 
smudging if the outward side of the hand is allowed to drag across the 
writing, writing in the Latin alphabet might possibly be less feasible 
with the left hand than the right under certain circumstances. Conversely, 
right-to-left alphabets, such as the Arabic and Hebrew, are generally considered 
easier to write with the left hand in general.[citation needed] Depending 
on the position and inclination of the writing paper, and the writing method, 
the left-handed writer can write as neatly and efficiently or as messily 
and slowly as right-handed writers. Usually the left-handed child needs 
to be taught how to write correctly with the left hand, since discovering 
a comfortable left-handed writing method on one's own may not be straightforward.[56][57] 
International Left-Handers Day is held annually every August 13.[58] It 
was founded by the Left-Handers Club in 1992, with the club itself having 
been founded in 1990.[58] International Left-Handers Day is, according 
to the club, "an annual event when left-handers everywhere can celebrate 
their sinistrality [meaning left-handedness] and increase public awareness 
of the advantages and disadvantages of being left-handed."[58] It celebrates 
their uniqueness and differences, who are from seven to ten percent of 
the world's population. Thousands of left-handed people in today's society 
have to adapt to use right handed tools and objects. Again according to 
the club, "in the U.K. alone there were over 20 regional events to mark 
the day in 2001- including left-v-right sports matches, a left-handed tea 
party, pubs using left-handed corkscrews where patrons drank and played 
pub games with the left hand only, and nationwide 'Lefty Zones' where left-handers' 
creativity, adaptability and sporting prowess were celebrated, whilst right-handers 
were encouraged to try out everyday left-handed objects to see just how 
awkward it can feel using the wrong equipment!"[58] Kangaroos and other 
macropod marsupials have a left-hand preference for everyday tasks in the 
wild. ‘True’ handedness is unexpected in marsupials because, unlike placental 
mammals, they lack a corpus callosum. Left-handedness was particularly 
apparent in the red kangaroo (Macropus rufus) and the eastern gray kangaroo 
(Macropus giganteus). Red-necked (Bennett’s) wallabies (Macropus rufogriseus) 
preferentially use their left hand for behaviours that involve fine manipulation, 
but the right for behaviours that require more physical strength. There 
was less evidence for handedness in arboreal species.[59] Studies of dogs, 
horses, and domestic cats have shown that females of those species tend 
