As player As manager Henry Albert "Hank" Bauer (July 31, 1922 – February 
9, 2007) was an American right fielder and manager in Major League Baseball. 
He played with the New York Yankees (from 1948 to 1959) and Kansas City 
Athletics (from 1960 to 1961); he batted and threw right-handed. He served 
as the manager of the Athletics in both Kansas City (1961–62) and in Oakland 
(1969), as well as of the Baltimore Orioles (1964–68), guiding the Orioles 
to the World Series title in 1966, a four-game sweep over the heavily favored 
Los Angeles Dodgers. This represented the first World Series title in the 
franchise's history. Born in East St. Louis, Illinois as the youngest of 
nine children, Bauer was the son of an Austrian immigrant, a bartender 
who had earlier lost his leg in an aluminum mill. With little money coming 
into the home, Bauer was forced to wear clothes made out of old feed sacks, 
helping shape his hard-nosed approach to life. (It was said that his care-worn 
face "looked like a clenched fist".) While playing baseball and basketball 
at East St. Louis Central Catholic High School, Bauer suffered permanent 
damage to his nose, which was caused by an errant elbow from an opponent. 
Upon graduation in 1941, he was repairing furnaces in a beer-bottling plant 
when his brother Herman, a minor league player in the Chicago White Sox 
system, was able to get him a tryout that resulted in a contract with Oshkosh 
of the Class D Wisconsin State League. One month after the Japanese attack 
on Pearl Harbor, Bauer enlisted in the U.S. Marine Corps and served with 
the 4th Raider Battalion and G Company, 2nd Battalion, 4th Marines. While 
deployed to the Pacific Theater, Bauer contracted malaria on Guadalcanal, 
but he recovered from that well enough to earn 11 campaign ribbons, two 
Bronze Stars and two Purple Hearts (for being wounded in action) in 32 
months of combat. Bauer was wounded his second time during the Battle of 
Okinawa, when he was a lieutenant in command of a platoon of 64 Marines. 
Only six of the 64 Marines survived the Japanese counterattack, and Bauer 
was wounded by shrapnel in his thigh. His wounds were severe enough to 
send him all the way back to the United States to recuperate. Returning 
to East St. Louis, Bauer joined the local pipefitter's union, and he stopped 
by the local bar where his brother Joe Bauer worked. Danny Menendez, a 
scout for the New York Yankees, decided to sign him for a tryout with the 
Yankees' farm team in Quincy, Illinois. The terms of the contract were 
as follows: just $175 a month (with a $25 per month increase if he made 
the team) and a $250 bonus. Batting .300 at Quincy and with the team's 
top minor league unit, the Kansas City Blues, Bauer eventually made his 
debut with the Yankees in September 1948. In his 14-season Major League 
Baseball career, Bauer had a .277 batting average with 164 home runs and 
703 runs batted in in 1,544 games played. Bauer played on seven World Series-winning 
New York Yankees teams, and he holds the World Series record for the longest 
hitting streak (17 games). Perhaps Bauer's most notable performance came 
in the sixth and final game of the 1951 World Series, where he hit a three-run 
triple. He also saved the game with a diving catch of a line drive by Sal 
Yvars for the final out. At the close of the 1959 season, Bauer was traded 
to the Kansas City Athletics in the trade that brought them the future 
home run king Roger Maris (1961).[1] This deal is often cited among the 
worst examples of the numerous trades between the Yankees and the Athletics 
during the late 1950s – trades that were nearly always one-sided in favor 
of the Yankees. In 1961, the year Maris broke Babe Ruth's single-season 
home run record, Bauer, at 38 years of age, was coming to the end of the 
line in his playing career. On June 19, Bauer was named as the playing-manager 
of the Athletics, and he retired as a player one month later. In Bauer's 
first stint as the Athletics' manager, through the end of the 1962 season, 
the Athletics won 107 games and lost 157 (0.405), and his teams finished 
ninth in the ten-team American League twice. After his firing at the close 
of the 1962 campaign, Bauer spent the 1963 season as first-base coach of 
the Baltimore Orioles. He was promoted to manager on November 19, 1963, 
succeeding Billy Hitchcock who had been dismissed 51 days earlier.[2] Baltimore 
contended aggressively for the 1964 American League pennant, finishing 
third, and then—bolstered by the acquisition of future Hall of Fame outfielder 
Frank Robinson—its first AL pennant and World Series championship in 1966. 
However, the ballclub, hampered by an injury to Robinson and major off-years 
by a number of regulars and pitchers, finished in the second division in 
1967. When the Orioles entered the 1968 All-Star break in third place and 
10½ games behind the eventual World Series Champion Detroit Tigers, Bauer 
was dismissed on July 10 in favor of first-base coach Earl Weaver.[3] Bauer 
then returned to the Athletics, now based in Oakland, for the 1969 campaign. 
He was fired for the second and final time by Finley after bringing Oakland 
home second in the new American League West Division. Overall, his regular-season 
managerial record was 594-544 (0.522). Bauer managed the Tidewater Tides, 
the AAA affiliate of the New York Mets, in 1971–72. The Tides made the 
finals of IL Governors' Cup playoffs each season, winning the playoff title 
in the latter campaign. Bauer then hung up his uniform, returning home 
to the Kansas City area, where he scouted for the Yankees and for the Kansas 
City Royals. Bauer moved to the Kansas City area Prairie Village, Kansas 
in 1949 after playing with the Blues of 1947 and 1948. While there, he 
met and later married Charlene Friede, the club's office secretary. She 
died in July 1999. The family's children attended St. Ann's Grade School 
in Prairie Village, then Bishop Miege High School in Shawnee Mission. Hank 
owned and managed a liquor store in Prairie Village for a number of years 
after retirement from baseball. Bauer died in his home on February 9, 2007, 
at the age of 84 from lung cancer.[4][5] Bauer was a no-nonsense leader 
and could be unforgiving if he felt his teammates' off-the-field activities 
were hurting the Yankees' on-the-field performance. Pitcher Whitey Ford 
remembered how Bauer reacted when he thought players like Ford and Mantle 
were overindulging themselves after hours: He pinned me to the wall of 
the dugout one day and said, 'Don't mess with my money.' New York Times, 
