Henry George "Hank" Steinbrenner III (born April 2, 1957[1]) is part-owner 
and co-chairman of the New York Yankees. He is the older brother of principal 
owner and managing general partner Hal Steinbrenner. Along with Hal, Hank 
inherited the team upon the death of their father, George Steinbrenner, 
in 2010. However, from 2007 onward, George ceded most day-to-day control 
of the team to Hal and Hank due to failing health. Even before their father's 
death, Hal and Hank made most of the decisions about the team in tandem 
with Yankees President Randy Levine and General Manager Brian Cashman. 
Steinbrenner is the older son of George and Elizabeth Joan (née Zieg) Steinbrenner. 
He has two sisters, Jessica Steinbrenner and Jennifer Steinbrenner-Swindal. 
Hank Steinbrenner is named for his grandfather, Henry George Steinbrenner 
II, who made the family fortune in the shipping business. His father, George 
Michael Steinbrenner III, was named for his own grandfather. During his 
stewardship of the Yankees, Hank Steinbrenner, like his father, has gained 
a reputation for being outspoken.[2] He has been criticized by many New 
York sports columnists for his off-the-cuff remarks that seem to lack forethought. 
Joel Sherman of the New York Post wrote, "Hank Steinbrenner is the owner 
of the Yankees by DNA accident. He blabs a lot, but does nothing that actually 
demonstrates leadership."[3] Steinbrenner voiced his displeasure with the 
term "Red Sox Nation" in a 2008 interview: In response, Red Sox principal 
owner John W. Henry inducted him into Red Sox Nation, complete with a membership 
card giving him access to an array of options, including the group newsletter, 
bumper stickers, pins, Green Monster seats, and a hat personally autographed 
by David Ortiz.[4] Concerning the Yankees' spring training feud with the 
Tampa Bay Rays in 2008, Steinbrenner stated, "I don't want these teams 
in general to forget who subsidizes a lot of them, and it's the Yankees, 
the Red Sox, Dodgers, Mets...I would prefer if teams want to target the 
Yankees that they at least start giving some of that revenue sharing and 
luxury tax money back. From an owner's point of view, that's my point."[5] 
Regarding former Yankees manager Joe Torre, Steinbrenner has said his father 
did not get enough respect for hiring Torre in 1995,[2] and that Joe Girardi 
has "...a little more fire in his belly" compared to Torre when it comes 
to managing.[2] Steinbrenner has gone on to say that he will "support everything 
[Girardi] does" and "[Girardi] was the manager I wanted, and that's not 
anything towards Joe Torre. That's the manager we wanted at the time. Times 
change."[5] In 2008, Steinbrenner lashed out when Yankees pitcher Chien-Ming 
Wang was injured while running the bases in an interleague game against 
the Houston Astros, suggesting that the National League needed to "join 
the modern age" by implementing the designated hitter.[6] In September 
2008, after the Yankees were eliminated from playoff contention for the 
first time since 1993, Steinbrenner penned an article in The Sporting News 
criticizing Major League Baseball's divisional format.[7] Despite his outspoken 
persona, Hank Steinbrenner is not frequently seen around the team, and 
instead does most of his work from the Yankees offices in Tampa, Florida. 
He did make a rare appearance in February 2015 to examine Yoan Moncada.[8] 
Steinbrenner and his wife divorced in 2004. They have four children.[9] 
