Henry John Peters (September 16, 1924 – January 4, 2015) was an American 
professional baseball executive who held senior management positions for 
the Kansas City Athletics, Cleveland Indians and Baltimore Orioles of Major 
League Baseball between 1965 and 1991. During his dozen years as general 
manager of the Orioles (1976–87), Baltimore won two American League pennants 
(in 1979 and 1983) and the 1983 World Series championship. Peters was named 
The Sporting News Executive of the Year after both pennant-winning seasons. 
In addition, as president of the National Association of Professional Baseball 
Leagues (1972–75), Peters was the chief executive of minor league baseball 
and helped it survive one of the worst crises in its history.[1] The native 
of St. Louis, Missouri, spent more than 40 years in organized baseball. 
Peters served in the United States Army during World War II in the European 
Theater of Operations.[2] After the war, he joined the St. Louis Browns 
(ancestors of the modern Baltimore Orioles) after answering a newspaper 
advertisement, and eventually worked his way into their scouting department. 
When the Browns left St. Louis for Baltimore after the 1953 season, Peters 
stayed in the Midwest. He spent 1954 as general manager of the Burlington 
Bees of the Class B Illinois–Indiana–Iowa League, then joined the front 
office of the Kansas City Athletics, newly transplanted from Philadelphia.[1] 
Peters spent more than a decade with Kansas City, and by 1960 he was in 
charge of the Athletics' scouting and minor league system. In the autumn 
of that year, Charlie Finley bought the team, and Peters became farm system 
director of the Cincinnati Reds. But after one season in Cincinnati, Peters 
returned to the Athletics and Finley, where he would work for the tempestuous 
owner for four full seasons and hold the title of general manager during 
the 1965 campaign.[3] Kansas City finished last in 1965, but it possessed 
at the big-league level (Bert Campaneris, Dick Green and Catfish Hunter) 
and in its farm system (Sal Bando, Rollie Fingers, Blue Moon Odom, Gene 
Tenace and others) a core of players that—after the franchise moved to 
Oakland in 1968—would help the A's win three consecutive world championships 
from 1972–74. After leaving Finley and the Athletics, Peters joined the 
Indians as director of player personnel and assistant general manager working 
under Gabe Paul from 1966–71, but the Indians had only one successful season 
(1968) during that six-year time frame. He then served as the sixth president 
in the history of the National Association, the umbrella group that governs 
the minor leagues, during a critical period. The minors had been suffering 
from over 20 years of plunging attendance, contraction and decline, and 
were in danger of extinction.[1] The short-season Northern League folded 
after the 1971 season, and other circuits like the Class A Carolina and 
Western Carolinas leagues, the short-season Northwest League and the Rookie-level 
Pioneer League were faced with operating with six or fewer teams.[4] "We 
had so many leagues that were in danger of going out of business," Peters 
said. His response was to encourage the creation of "co-op" teams that 
received players from multiple MLB clubs to keep the struggling leagues 
afloat. "I spent a lot of my time trying to convince Major League Baseball 
that they really needed these leagues. I’m proud that we were able to create 
clubs, getting two or three players from this team and a few from another 
team and so on, so that we could put together an unaffiliated team and 
each league could have at least four teams. Some of those leagues that 
were in trouble are now strong and prosperous."[1] After Frank Cashen's 
resignation in 1975, the Orioles—Peters' original organization—were in 
need of a new general manager. Peters accepted the challenge, taking the 
reins in Baltimore as baseball free agency was made possible by an arbitrator's 
ruling dismantling the reserve clause. In his maiden season, 1976, Peters 
acted decisively with a flurry of trades with the Athletics and New York 
Yankees. Although one of his acquisitions, Reggie Jackson, played only 
one year as an Oriole before becoming a free agent himself (and a Yankee), 
Peters obtained future 18-game-winner Rudy May and three cornerstones of 
the Orioles' 1979 and 1983 pennant-winning teams: pitchers Scott McGregor 
and Tippy Martinez, and catcher Rick Dempsey.[2] The Baltimore farm system 
also would produce Eddie Murray and Cal Ripken, Jr., future Baseball Hall 
of Famers, and ace starting pitcher Mike Boddicker during Peters' tenure. 
But following the 1983 world championship, the Orioles went into decline, 
and after enduring their first back-to-back losing seasons in 1986–87 in 
almost 30 years, Peters was fired on October 5, 1987.[3] Less than a month 
later, on November 2, 1987, he returned to the Indians as their president 
and chief operating officer.[3] Although the Indians never compiled a winning 
record during Peters' four full years in the job, he lay the foundation 
for the strong Cleveland teams of the 1990s, signing youngsters Jim Thome, 
Manny Ramírez and Charles Nagy, and trading for Sandy Alomar, Jr. and Carlos 
Baerga.[2] He also brought John Hart from Baltimore to the Indians' organization, 
and as Peters' hand-picked successor[5] as the club's top baseball operations 
executive, Hart would lead the Indians through their period of sustained 
success that began with their move to Jacobs Field in 1994, including American 
League titles in 1995 and 1997. Peters was married to the former Dorothy 
Kleimeier, with whom he had a daughter and a son, until her death in 2010.[6] 
He died of complications from a stroke in Boca Raton, Florida on January 
