Howard "Hank" Greenwald (born June 26, 1935 in Detroit, Michigan) is a 
former Major League Baseball announcer, known best for being a play-by-play 
announcer for the San Francisco Giants. Greenwald changed his name from 
Howard to Hank to honor Detroit Tigers Hall of Famer Hank Greenberg. He 
began his broadcasting career calling football games for his alma mater 
Syracuse University. He was also a broadcaster for the former NBA team, 
the Syracuse Nationals.[1] In the 1960s, he broadcast Hawaii Islanders 
baseball in the Pacific Coast League. Greenwald began calling games for 
the Giants in 1979, but ended this stint in 1986, after Greenwald had a 
disagreement with station management.[2] After joining the New York Yankees 
radio broadcast team for the next two seasons, Greenwald returned to the 
Giants in 1989 when the team reached the World Series. Greenwald later 
expressed resentment toward Yankees owner George Steinbrenner, saying "Steinbrenner 
is everything you've heard, maybe worse."[2] He remained in San Francisco 
until 1996, when he announced his retirement. At the time he retired, Greenwald 
had announced 2,798 consecutive games.[2] In his book This Copyrighted 
Broadcast, Greenwald cites disagreements with Giants' Vice President Larry 
Baer as his reason for retiring.[3] The Giants hired former Baltimore Orioles 
and ESPN announcer Jon Miller as Greenwald's replacement.[3] Perhaps Hank 
Greenwald's most memorable call was his emotional description of the final 
out in Game 5 of the 1989 National League Championship Series[4] (which 
sent the San Francisco Giants to the World Series for the first time since 
1962). Twenty-seven years of waiting have come to an end! The Giants have 
won the pennant! This came after Greenwald called Giants first baseman 
Will Clark's pennant clinching hit off of Chicago Cubs relief pitcher Mitch 
Williams in the bottom of the eighth inning: And Clark hits it up the middle, 
into center-field, base hit!!! Maldonado scores! Here comes Butler...on 
his way to third is Thompson, the Giants lead three to one!!! In 1997 Greenwald 
was employed by the CBS Radio network as a baseball announcer, calling 
Saturday Game of the Week broadcasts as well as the NLDS between the Giants 
and Florida Marlins. In 2004, Greenwald was hired as a television play-by-play 
announcer for the Oakland Athletics working about 1/3 of the team's telecasts 
with analyst Ray Fosse. He announced games for the A's in the 2004 and 
2005 seasons. Greenwald also has called basketball play-by-play for the 
Golden State Warriors (with legendary announcer Bill King) and the University 
of San Francisco Dons. His son Doug, named after General Douglas MacArthur,[2] 
is the play-by-play announcer for the Fresno Grizzlies, formerly the Giants' 
AAA affiliate and now the Houston Astros' affiliate. He also has announced 
baseball and women's basketball for the Santa Clara Broncos.[5][6] His 
first game announcing for the major league Giants was on September 6, 2009; 
he filled in for regular announcer Dave Flemming, whose wife was expected 
to give birth.[7] Most recently, he also had to fill in for both Flemming 
and fellow broadcaster Jon Miller during a July 23–25, 2010 series against 
the Arizona Diamondbacks since Miller had to go up to Cooperstown to receive 
the Ford C. Frick Award, and Flemming also had to be there to support him 
after Flemming solely called the first game on July 22. Like Flemming, 
Doug solely called the remaining three games on the radio accompanied by 
color commentator J. T. Snow. Greenwald called the play-by-play alongside 
Randy Winn for the San Francisco Giants game on the June 14th, 2015 broadcast 
