Hannah Storm (born Hannah Lynn Storen; June 13, 1962) is an American television 
sports journalist, serving as the anchor of ESPN's SportsCenter Face to 
Face. She was also host of the NBA Countdown pregame show on ABC as part 
of the network's NBA Sunday game coverage. Storm was born in Oak Park, 
Illinois , and is the daughter of sports executive Mike Storen, who was 
a commissioner of the American Basketball Association, general manager 
of that league's Indiana Pacers, Kentucky Colonels and Memphis Sounds franchises, 
and president of the Atlanta Hawks in the NBA. Her mother, Hannah G. Storen, 
is a successful real estate agent in Houston, Texas. She graduated from 
Westminster Schools of Atlanta in 1979 and the University of Notre Dame 
in 1983, with degrees in political science and communications. On January 
8, 1994, she married sportscaster Dan Hicks. The couple have three daughters: 
Riley, Ellery and Hannah.[3] Storm has Irish ancestry[4] and is Catholic.[5] 
Storm took her on-air name during her stint as a disc jockey for a hard 
rock radio station in Corpus Christi, Texas, in the early 1980s. While 
at Notre Dame, she worked for WNDU-TV, the then-Notre Dame-owned NBC affiliate 
in South Bend, Indiana.[citation needed] After graduation, she took a job 
as a disc jockey at KNCN-FM (C-101) in Corpus Christi, Texas.[citation 
needed] Six months later, she got a job at a Houston rock station KSRR 
97 Rock as the drive-time sportscaster.[citation needed] Storm stayed in 
Houston for four years doing a variety of radio and television jobs, including 
hosting the Houston Rockets halftime and postgame shows and also hosted 
Houston Astros postgame shows on television.[citation needed] She worked 
as a weekend sports anchor on WCNC TV 36 (formerly WRET) in Charlotte, 
North Carolina in 1988–89. She made the leap to CNN from there.[citation 
needed] Storm's national experience began as the first female host on CNN 
Sports Tonight from 1989 to 1992. She also hosted Major League Baseball 
Preview and reported from spring training, the playoffs, and Daytona 500. 
In addition, she hosted the 1990 Goodwill Games for TBS. In May 1992, Storm 
left CNN and was hired by NBC. She hosted for the Olympic Games, as well 
as NBA and WNBA basketball, the National Football League, figure skating 
and Major League Baseball. Storm became the first woman in American television 
history to act as solo host of a network's sports package when she hosted 
NBC Major League Baseball games from 1994 to 2000 (CBS' Andrea Joyce preceded 
her, but co-hosted the sports packages). She then hosted The NBA on NBC 
from 1997 to 2002. Storm also anchored NBC Sports coverage of Wimbledon, 
French Open, Notre Dame football, World Figure Skating Championships, NBC 
SportsDesk, Men's and Women's U.S. Open (golf) and various college bowl 
games. Storm was also the first play-by-play announcer for the WNBA in 
1997. In October 2002, she moved to CBS News and became one of the hosts 
of The Early Show. As co-host of The Early Show, she covered major news 
events, including the Iraq War, Hurricane Katrina, Super Bowls XLI and 
XXXVIII, the 2004 Democratic National Convention, the 2004 U.S. presidential 
election, 2008 presidential elections and the 2005 London terrorist bombings. 
Storm has interviewed major newsmakers such as President George W. Bush, 
First Lady Laura Bush, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Senators 
John McCain, Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama, as well as many sports and 
pop culture icons, including Elton John, Paul McCartney, Peyton Manning, 
Tiger Woods, Jamie Foxx, Halle Berry and Jennifer Aniston. In addition 
to her duties on The Early Show, Storm hosted shows for the award-winning 
CBS newsmagazine, 48 Hours. She also served as co-host of the network's 
CBS Thanksgiving Day Parade for five years. In 2007, Storm conceived and 
wrote a daily blog for CBSNews.com, which featured behind-the-scenes insight 
and stories of inspirational women. During an Early Show on-air segment, 
Storm revealed on camera that she had a congenital defect known as port-wine 
stain under her left eye. In November 2007, CBS announced that Storm was 
leaving The Early Show. Storm's last day as an Early Show co-host was December 
7, 2007. Storm joined ESPN on May 10, 2008. She anchors SportsCenter weekdays 
(except Fridays during the NFL season) from 9 am until noon and on Sunday 
mornings during the NFL season with Bob Ley. Her duties are to deliver 
highlights and to question analysts about sports topics. In August 2009, 
she added tennis host to her ESPN duties by co-hosting the 2009 U.S. Open 
with Mike Tirico and Chris Fowler. She also co-hosted the 2010 U.S. Open, 
2011 Wimbledon, and the 2011 U.S. Open. In February 2010, fellow ESPN colleague 
Tony Kornheiser criticized her outfit that day on his radio show, saying 
that her outfit looked like: "A sausage casing", and was suspended from 
ESPN for two weeks. He later apologized to her via a 15-minute phone conversation.[6] 
Beginning on April 3, 2010, Storm would host ESPN Sports Saturday, a show 
on corporate sibling ABC similar to that network's classic sports series, 
Wide World of Sports.[7] In June 2010, alongside fellow anchor Stuart Scott, 
Storm provided pregame coverage for the 2010 NBA Finals between the Boston 
Celtics and Los Angeles Lakers. She later became host of the NBA Countdown 
pregame show for the 2010–2011 season, alternating with Stuart Scott, until 
the 2011–12 NBA season. When Scott died in 2015, Storm was tasked with 
announcing the news on SportsCenter. She nearly broke down during the segment. 
On August 10, 2016, she also announced the death of another colleague, 
John Saunders, while airing live from Olympics coverage in Rio de Janeiro.[8] 
Storm has written two books: Go Girl, a parenting guide for raising daughters 
to participate in sports, which is in its second printing, and Notre Dame 
Inspirations, which funds a journalism scholarship in her name at her alma 
mater.[9] She has also contributed extensively to several magazines, including 
Cosmopolitan, Nick Jr., Family Circle, Child, and Notre Dame Magazine. 
Storm was born with a large port-wine stain birthmark under her left eye 
which she talks about publicly in order to raise awareness about the condition.[10] 
In 2008 Storm created the Hannah Storm Foundation, which raises awareness 
and provides treatment for children suffering from debilitating and disfiguring 
vascular birthmarks.[11] She also sits on the boards of the Tribeca Film 
Festival, Colgate Women's Sports Awards, 21st Century Kids 1st Foundation, 
and has done extensive work with the March of Dimes, Partnership for a 
Drug-Free America, Boys and Girls Club, Special Olympics, the Women's Sports 
Foundation, Vascular Birthmark Institute, University of Notre Dame, and 
the Diocese of Bridgeport. Storm also founded Brainstormin' Productions 
for the creation of educational and inspirational programming. In May 2011, 
Hannah received "Celebrated Mom" award from LifeWorx, Inc., Chappaqua, 
New York. This award is given to a mother who inspires others, in spite 
of career and family challenges. On December 11, 2012, Storm sustained 
second degree burns to her chest and hands, and first degree burns to her 
neck and face resulting from a propane gas grill accident at her home.[12] 
Her fifteen-year-old daughter alerted authorities of the accident. She 
lost her eyebrows, eyelashes and roughly half her hair.[13] After receiving 
advanced medical care from the Burn Center at Westchester Medical Center 
in Valhalla, New York, Storm returned to the air January 1, 2013 co-hosting 
the Rose Parade on ABC while wearing a bandage on her left hand and sporting 
hair extensions, and returned to SportsCenter on January 13, 2013 to host 
