Nippon Professional Baseball (1950–present) The Hanshin Tigers (阪神タイガース, 
Hanshin Taigāsu?) are a Nippon Professional Baseball team playing in the 
Central League. The team is based in Koshien, Nishinomiya, Hyōgo Prefecture, 
Japan, and are owned by Hanshin Electric Railway Co., Ltd., a subsidiary 
of Hankyu Hanshin Holdings Inc. The Hanshin Tigers are one of the oldest 
professional clubs in Japan. They played their first season in 1936 as 
the Osaka Tigers and assumed their current team name in 1961. The Hanshin 
Tigers, one of the oldest professional clubs in Japan, were founded on 
December 10, 1935 with the team being formed in 1936. The team was first 
called "the Ōsaka Tigers". In 1940, amid anti-foreign sentiment, the Tigers 
changed the name to "Hanshin" and in 1947 changed the name back to "Ōsaka 
Tigers". The current team name was assumed in 1961. The Tigers won four 
titles before the establishment of the two league system in 1950. Since 
the league was split into the Central League and the Pacific League, the 
Tigers have won the Central League pennant five times (1962, 1964, 1985, 
2003, 2005) and the Japan Series once (1985). When the 2004 Major League 
Baseball season opened in Japan, the Tigers played an exhibition game against 
the New York Yankees at the Tokyo Dome on March 29. The Tigers won 11-7. 
In each of 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2009, more than three million people attended 
games hosted by the Tigers. The Tigers were the only one of the 12 Nippon 
Professional Baseball teams to achieve this. On January 31, 2007, the Tigers 
presented uniforms for the 2007 season. For the home uniforms, yellow, 
one of the colors of the team, was used again. The home field, Koshien 
Stadium, is used by high school baseball teams from all over Japan for 
play in the national championship tournaments in spring and summer. The 
summer tournament takes place in the middle of the Tigers' season, forcing 
the Tigers to go on an annual three-week road trip to allow the tournament 
to be played. Famous players in Hanshin Tigers history include Fumio Fujimura, 
Masaru Kageura, Minoru Murayama, Yutaka Enatsu, Masayuki Kakefu, Randy 
Bass and many others. The home field of the Tigers, Hanshin Koshien Stadium, 
is one of three major natural grass baseball stadiums in Japan. The others 
are the Mazda Stadium in Hiroshima (Hiroshima Toyo Carp), and Skymark Stadium 
in Kobe (part-time home of the Orix Buffaloes). Of the three, only Koshien 
has an all-dirt infield (the other two aforementioned parks have an American-style 
infield). There are numerous smaller grass field ballparks around the country; 
Japanese baseball teams frequently play games in small cities so that local 
fans can see more of their heroes. Koshien Stadium is the oldest ballpark 
in Japan; built in 1924, the stadium was once visited by American baseball 
legend Babe Ruth on a tour of Major League stars in 1934. There is a monument 
commemorating this visit at the front gates of the park. Koshien is revered 
as a "sacred" ballpark, and players traditionally bow before entering and 
before leaving its hallowed field. The losing team in any high school baseball 
game played at the ballpark is allowed to scoop up handfuls of Koshien 
infield dirt, stuffing holy clay clods into tiny plastic bags as hordes 
of Japanese paparazzi snap photos at arm's length. As with many other underachieving 
baseball teams, a curse is believed to lurk over the Tigers.[1] After their 
1985 Japan Series win, fans celebrated by having people who looked like 
Tigers players jump into the Dotonbori Canal. According to legend, because 
none of the fans resembled first baseman Randy Bass, fans grabbed a life-sized 
statue of Kentucky Fried Chicken mascot Colonel Sanders and threw it into 
the river (like Bass, the Colonel had a beard and was not Japanese). After 
many series without a series win, the Tigers were said to be doomed never 
to win the season again until the Colonel was rescued from the river. In 
2003, when the Tigers returned to the Japan Series after 18 years with 
one of the worst records in the Central League, many KFC outlets in Kōbe 
and Ōsaka moved their Colonel Sanders statues inside until the series was 
over to protect them from Tigers fans. The top half of the statue (excluding 
its left hand) was finally recovered on March 10, 2009, and the bottom 
half and left hand shortly after, in the canal by construction workers 
while constructing a new boardwalk area as part of a beautification project. 
The KFC outlet where this statue once stood has since closed; the statue 
is now located at an outlet near Koshien Stadium. Tigers fans are known 
as perhaps the most fanatical and dedicated fans in all of Japanese professional 
baseball. They often outnumber the home team fans at Tigers "away" games. 
Tigers fans also have a reputation for rough behavior and a willingness 
to brawl with other fans or with each other, although long fights are rare. 
A famous Tigers fan tradition is the release, by the fans, of hundreds 
of air-filled balloons immediately following the seventh inning stretch 
and the singing of the Tigers' fight song. This tradition is carried-out 
at all home and away games, except at games against the Yomiuri Giants 
in the Tokyo Dome due to the Giants' notoriously authoritarian and heavy-handed 
rules for controlling behavior by visiting fans. The Tigers-Giants rivalry 
is considered the national Japanese rivalry, on par with the San Francisco 
Giants vs Los Angeles Dodgers and the Yankees–Red Sox rivalry in Major 
League Baseball or Real Madrid vs. FC Barcelona in Spanish football. "The 
Hanshin Tigers' Song (阪神タイガースの歌, Hanshin Tigers no Uta?)", as known as 
"Rokko Oroshi (六甲颪, 六甲おろし?, lit. The (Downward) Wind of Mount Rokko)", 
lyrics by Sonosuke Sato (佐藤 惣之助?) and composed by Yuji Koseki (古関 裕而?), 
is a popular song in the Kansai area. In Japan, wind which blows down from 
a mountain is known to be cold and harsh, hence the song symbolizes the 
Tiger's brave challenge under hardship. The song can even be found on karaoke 
boxes. 阪神タイガースの歌 (六甲颪, kanji) 六甲颪 (ろっこうおろし)に颯爽 (さっそう)と 蒼天 (そうてん)翔 (か)ける日輪 
(にちりん)の 青春の覇気 美 (うるわ)しく 輝く我が名ぞ 阪神タイガース オウ オウ オウオウ 阪神タイガース フレフレフレフレ 闘志 (とうし)溌剌 
(はつらつ) 起 (た)つや今 熱血 既 (すで)に敵を衝 (つ)く 獣王の意気高らかに 無敵の我等ぞ 阪神タイガース オウ オウ オウオウ 
阪神タイガース フレフレフレフレ 鉄腕強打幾千 (いくち)度 (た)び 鍛えてここに 甲子園 勝利に燃ゆる栄冠は 輝く我等ぞ 阪神タイガース 
オウ オウ オウオウ 阪神タイガース フレフレフレフレ Hanshin Tigers no Uta (Rokko Oroshi, romaji) 
Rokkō oroshi ni sassō to Sōten kakeru nichirin no Seishun no haki uruwashiku 
Kagayaku wagana zo Hanshin Tigers Ō-ō-ō-ō Hanshin Tigers Fure-fure-fure-fure 
Tōshi hatsuratsu tatsu ya ima Nekketsu sude ni teki o tsuku Jūō no iki 
takaraka ni Muteki no warera zo Hanshin Tigers Ō-ō-ō-ō Hanshin Tigers Fure-fure-fure-fure 
Tetsuwan kyōda ikuchitabi Kitaete koko ni Kōshien Shōri ni moyuru eikan 
wa Kagayaku warera zo Hanshin Tigers Ō-ō-ō-ō Hanshin Tigers Fure-fure-fure-fure 
The Hanshin Tigers' Song (The Wind of Mount Rokko) (An official English 
version, not a direct translation) Dashing swiftly through the wind blowin' 
from Rokko Like the big sun soaring in the clear blue sky Mighty spirit 
of the youth shows the victor's grace The name that shines in glory "Hanshin 
Tigers" Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Hanshin Tigers Go, Go, Go, Go! Powerful hits and 
skillful pitch achieved a thousand times Trained with every discipline 
here at Koshien Crowned with constant victory glorious, matchless feat 
Always proud, invincible "Hanshin Tigers" Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Hanshin Tigers 
Go, Go, Go, Go! From the Kosaido Publishing Co., Ltd. (株式会社廣済堂出版, Kabushikigaisha 
Kōsaidō Shuppan?) guidebook. NOTE: The 1944 Japanese Baseball League season 
was cut-short and the 1945 season was cancelled due to the ongoing war 
(World War II) with many players being enlisted to fight. Pitchers Catchers 
Infielders Outfielders Manager Catchers Outfielders Manager Development 
