Hansel Robles (born August 13, 1990) is a Dominican professional baseball 
pitcher for the New York Mets of Major League Baseball (MLB). Robles signed 
as an international free agent in August 2008.[1] Robles played in the 
minors with the Dominican Summer League Mets, Kingsport Mets, Brooklyn 
Cyclones, Gulf Coast League Mets, St. Lucie Mets, Binghamton Mets, and 
the Las Vegas 51s. The Mets added Robles to their 40-man roster on November 
20, 2014.[2] The Mets promoted him to the major leagues for the first time 
on April 20, 2015 to replace then-injured reliever Jerry Blevins.[3] He 
made his Major League debut on April 24 against the interleague-rival New 
York Yankees. He came into the game in the seventh inning giving up a hit 
to Alex Rodriguez to load the bases, then getting Mark Teixeira to pop 
out and struck out Brian McCann and Carlos Beltrán to end the inning.[4] 
On August 25 against the Philadelphia Phillies at Citizens Bank Park, Robles 
came into the game in the sixth inning getting two outs, one of them being 
a strikeout. In the seventh inning with two outs and no one on, Robles 
threw his nineteenth pitch of the game, a quick pitch with Darin Ruf batting. 
The home plate umpire Dan Bellino pointed at Robles to start throwing, 
but Ruf's head was down and was caught by surprise with the pitch while 
at the same time Bellino put his hand out yelling "time". The pitch was 
not called ball or strike. Former Met Jeff Francoeur stepped out of the 
dugout yelling at Robles with Bellino approaching the Phillies dugout telling 
Francouer to sit down. Robles also yelled back at Francoeur. Then Larry 
Bowa, the bench coach for the Phillies was thrown out of the game arguing 
over the quick pitch. Both of the benches for the Mets and the Phillies 
cleared, with the Mets players going to the mound to protect Robles while 
Mets manager Terry Collins came near the Phillies bench, with the umpires 
in between them, shaking his head no against whatever Bowa was saying at 
him. Larry Bowa was ejected from the game. While the umpires were discussing, 
Bowa began yelling at Mets second baseman Daniel Murphy (who also yelled 
back) over his bat-flip from the day before in the Mets 16-7 win over the 
Phillies after Murphy hit a home run off pitcher Justin De Fratus in the 
sixth inning. Both teams were given warnings. When things calmed down, 
on a 2-2 pitch, Robles struck out Ruf chasing the pitch to end the inning 
with Robles staring at the Phillies dugout while walking towards the Mets 
dugout.[5][6][7][8] Another quick pitch incident occurred on September 
24 against the Cincinnati Reds at Great American Ball Park in the bottom 
of the eighth inning with no one on base and one out, Robles threw a quick 
pitch on a 0–2 count to batter Jay Bruce for his sixth pitch of the inning 
with home plate umpire Adam Hamari originally signaling no pitch then changing 
it to a ball. The umpire is allowed to call a quick pitch a ball, but manager 
Terry Collins argued that it couldn't be a ball. He argued with Hamari 
and third base umpire Ted Barrett, but the call stood. However, review 
of the pitch showed that Bruce seemed ready to hit the pitch, but the ball 
landed out of the strike zone where it could've been called a ball regardless 
of the quick pitch.[9][10] On October 2 in Philadelphia against the Phillies 
in the bottom of the sixth inning with the Mets leading 5–3 with no one 
on base and one out, a 2–2 count to batter Cameron Rupp on the fourteenth 
pitch, Robles threw a quick pitch near the head of Rupp and both of the 
benches for the Mets and the Phillies emptied but no fight occurred. Robles 
was ejected immediately by home plate umpire Bob Davidson. Rupp began cursing 
at Robles while being restrained by catcher Travis d'Arnaud who told Rupp 
that the pitch wasn't intentional. Robles pleaded his case saying it wasn't 
his fault indicating he had no intention to hit Rupp. Manager Terry Collins 
of the Mets was ejected because the umpire's judged that if there was any 
intent then both the pitcher and the manager are therefore ejected. The 
pitch became ball 3 with the count 3–2.[11] Earlier in the game, pitcher 
Justin De Fratus hit Yoenis Céspedes in the third inning on his hand, bruising 
his left middle and ring fingers. He would leave the game. His replacement, 
Kirk Nieuwenhuis was hit in the fifth inning by Adam Loewen. In the bottom 
half of the fifth inning, Logan Verrett hit Odubel Herrera in the back. 
After Herrera was hit, Bob Davidson issued warnings to both benches.[12] 
As a result of the incident, Robles was suspended for three games by Major 
League Baseball and fined an undisclosed amount. He appealed the suspension 
and was allowed to play for the rest of the season.[13] When the Mets made 
the playoffs, Robles was part of the roster of the Mets all the way up 
to the 2015 World Series. Once the appeal process is complete, the suspension 
would carry over into 2016. Robles appeared in the Division Series against 
the Los Angeles Dodgers in game two in the eighth inning getting two strikeouts. 
In the World Series against the Kansas City Royals he appeared in game 
two in the bottom of the sixth inning getting the three batters he faced 
out. He also appeared in game four in the top of the ninth inning getting 
three outs, two of them strikeouts. Robles finished the season with a 4–3 
record, 3.67 ERA in 57 games in 54 innings pitched with a WHIP of 1.019 
with 61 strikeouts while giving up 37 hits, 27 runs (22 of them earned), 
8 home runs, and 18 walks. Robles was not on the Mets' Opening Day Roster 
due to his suspension, but joined the Mets for their home opener against 
the Philadelphia Phillies. On September 23 at Citi Field, Robles recorded 
his first career save after entering a game in the seventh inning and throwing 
