Happy Valley, Pennsylvania, also known as the "State College, Pennsylvania 
Metropolitan Statistical Area", is a region of Centre County that contains 
the borough of State College, and the townships of College, Harris, Patton, 
and Ferguson. Collectively, these municipalities comprise the "Centre Region 
Council of Governments." By definition, the region is bounded by Nittany 
Valley to the northeast, Penns Valley to the east, and Bald Eagle Valley 
to the north and west. The region is part of the State College-DuBois, 
PA Combined Statistical Area. The name "Happy Valley" is the name given 
to the area since the Great Depression of the 1930s as the area was generally 
not hit hard financially because of the presence of Pennsylvania State 
University.[2] Though the term "Happy Valley" is generally synonymous with 
State College Borough, the region also includes the townships of College, 
Harris, Patton, and Ferguson. The culture of Happy Valley is largely dominated 
by Penn State University. The activities that occur in this region largely 
surround the student activities, such as "student arrivals", football Saturdays, 
Homecoming, and graduation.[3] Though the region is also home to the State 
College Spikes, a minor league baseball team, the area is most known for 
the Penn State Nittany Lions football team. During the summer session, 
the student population is known to return to their home towns thus reducing 
the population significantly. During this time, the Central Pennsylvania 
Festival of the Arts,[4] usually referred to as "Arts Fest", is held for 
five days and draws many visitors to town during what would otherwise be 
a quiet period. Streets are closed off and lined with booths where people 
can buy paintings, pottery, jewelry, and other hand-made goods. There are 
also numerous musical performances and plays to take in, and food vendors 
selling everything from funnel cakes to Indian cuisine. The Penn State 
IFC/Panhellenic Dance Marathon, commonly referred to as THON, is a 46-hour 
Dance Marathon that takes place every February on the University Park campus 
with the purpose of raising money for the Four Diamonds Foundation.[5] 
A number of events throughout the year pave the way to February's THON 
weekend. Blue-White Football Weekend occurs in April and includes a carnival, 
fireworks, food vendors, the student entertainment stage, live music, a 
parade, and more.[6] On game day, an autograph session with the football 
student-athletes is held in Beaver Stadium, prior to kickoff of the Blue-White 
football intrasquad scrimmage game. According to the 2010 census, approximately 
34% of the population consists of people between the ages 20-34. [1] In 
a 2014 comparison of 380 metropolitan statistical areas in the United States, 
