The Harmonica Incident took place on a New York Yankees team bus on August 
20, 1964, en route to O'Hare International Airport. Infielder Phil Linz, 
slightly resentful at not being played[1] during a four-game sweep by the 
Chicago White Sox that was believed at the time to have seriously set back 
the Yankees' chances at that year's American League pennant, began playing 
a harmonica in the back of the bus. Manager Yogi Berra, feeling that Linz's 
behavior was inappropriate given the team's recent poor performance, angrily 
called on him to stop, whereupon Linz threw the harmonica and loudly complained 
about being singled out despite not having been at fault for the losses.[2] 
Journalists on the bus following the team reported the incident in the 
next day's newspapers, and it became national news. Although Linz was fined 
for the incident, he received an endorsement contract from harmonica manufacturer 
Hohner after the company saw an increase in sales. The contract more than 
made up for Linz's lost money from the fine. Radio stations in Boston urged 
fans of the Red Sox, whom the Yankees played immediately afterward, to 
greet Linz at the plate in Fenway Park with a harmonica and kazoo serenade. 
At an exhibition game against the crosstown New York Mets, Mets players 
tossed harmonicas on the field. The incident had divergent effects on the 
team. For the players, it ended well: Berra's authority as their manager 
was decisively established and they went 30–11 through the end of the season, 
clinching the pennant that had seemed out of reach. For the team's management, 
which had been dogged all season by reports that Berra could not control 
his former teammates, it confirmed that impression, and efforts to find 
a replacement for Berra (that had reportedly already been underway) succeeded 
shortly afterwards, with Johnny Keane, who was considered likely to be 
fired from his position as St. Louis Cardinals' manager after the season 
concluded, secretly agreeing to become the Yankees' manager. His team also 
came back from deep in the standings to win the National League pennant, 
and then defeat the Yankees in that year's World Series. The day afterwards, 
Berra was fired and Keane shocked his superiors by resigning instead of 
accepting a contract extension. Keane took over for Berra a few days later. 
Despite its role in catalyzing the team that season, the incident has been 
seen as the beginning of the end of the Yankees' 15-year postwar dynasty,[3][4] 
since it also coincided with the announcement that the CBS television network 
was buying the team. Keane was never able to fully earn the respect of 
either the aging, injury-plagued stars or the few promising younger players, 
and in the 1965 season the team failed to win the pennant after recording 
its first losing season in 40 years. When the subsequent season started 
with even worse results, Keane was fired, though that did not prevent the 
Yankees from finishing in last place. They would not return to the World 
Series until 1976, after CBS had sold the team to George Steinbrenner. 
In the years after World War II, the Yankees had come to dominate Major 
League Baseball in a way that no team had done before, nor any has done 
since. Between 1947 and 1963, the team appeared in the World Series 14 
times, winning all but four. Rooting for the Yankees, as Peter Golenbock, 
the author of several books about the Yankees, some in collaboration with 
players, wrote, "became like rooting for U.S. Steel".[5] Stars of the earlier 
era like Joe DiMaggio had been almost seamlessly replaced by younger players 
like Mickey Mantle. One of those, former catcher Lawrence "Yogi" Berra, 
had been a constant on the team.[6] Berra had accumulated considerable 
baseball knowledge during his career. Casey Stengel, the Yankees' manager 
throughout the 1950s, had considered him the most important player on the 
team,[7] sometimes describing Berra as his assistant manager. When he published 
his own memoirs in 1961, a blurb on the back cover by well-regarded Baltimore 
Orioles manager Paul Richards suggested that Berra would be an excellent 
manager himself. Since Berra was nearing the end of his playing career, 
the Orioles and other teams made indications that they would be interested 
in hiring him for that position.[8] Berra explained later that he had turned 
down the other clubs' offers because many of them were not regular contenders 
for the pennant and he did not believe it likely that a new manager would 
last more than two seasons. During 1962, the Yankees' management noticed 
that Stengel, whom they had fired due to his advancing age a few seasons 
earlier, was becoming a big draw for the expansion New York Mets of the 
National League as the manager during their inaugural season. Despite the 
Mets' poor performance, the team regularly filled the aging Polo Grounds, 
and the Yankees only barely outdrew them even though they wound up winning 
the World Series. The executives worried that Berra, popular with the fans 
and the media, might be lured over to the Mets after his playing days were 
done, and with that team expected to move to the newer, larger Shea Stadium 
within two seasons, the possibility existed that the Mets' attendance figures 
could exceed those of the Yankees.[9] So, before the start of the 1963 
season, manager Ralph Houk took Berra on a yachting trip with several of 
the team's executives. Out on the ocean, general manager Roy Hamey told 
Berra that, at the end of the season, he would be leaving that position 
to become a scout. He in turn would be replaced by Houk, leaving the field 
manager's position open. Hamey asked Berra if he was interested in that 
job. The catcher was incredulous at first, but then accepted the offer.[10] 
Not all the executives on board were enthusiastic about the prospect of 
Berra taking over as the Yankees' manager. Team president Dan Topping Jr., 
son of co-owner Dan Topping, who saw the chief benefit of hiring Berra 
as manager to be counteracting Stengel's force as a draw for the Mets, 
was not sure about the wisdom of the decision otherwise. Co-owner Del Webb 
had more serious doubts: Berra, unlike most other major league managers 
of the era, had no experience managing in the minor leagues; he also thought 
it inadvisable to go from being a teammate one season to a manager the 
next. Berra visited him in California to reassure him on both points, and 
Webb said he would support him as manager.[9] Berra was made a player-coach 
that season, although he fulfilled the latter role primarily by fungo hitting 
to his teammates during pregame warmups.[11] The promotion to manager was 
not made public[Note 1] until after the Yankees had ended the season with 
a four-game loss to the Los Angeles Dodgers in the World Series.[7] Reporters 
greeted the news with some of the skepticism that Webb had expressed privately. 
Berra reassured them that he had learned much from Stengel and Houk in 
his years with the team. "You can observe a lot by watching", he said, 
adding to the stock of "Yogi-isms", the pithy, sometimes apparently self-contradictory 
remarks that had endeared him to the press over the years. "If you ask 
me a question I don't know", he continued, "I'm not going to answer".[12] 
As the next season drew near, Berra himself seemed to express some doubts 
about his own capabilities as manager. "If we win, they'll say Mickey Mouse 
could have managed this team to the pennant. If we lose, they'll say it's 
my fault", he observed at one point. "Maybe I'll quit even if we win".[9] 
Berra faced challenges almost from the start of the season. The team, which 
had not played well during spring training, lost its first three games 
in extra innings. Pitcher Jim Bouton, seen as the Yankees' next ace after 
winning 21 games in his rookie season the previous year, had sat out part 
of the preseason due to a contract dispute and as a result got off to an 
uneven start. Within weeks of Opening Day, all three of the team's starting 
outfielders—Mickey Mantle, Roger Maris, and Tom Tresh—were out with injuries, 
forcing Berra to play Johnny Blanchard, the team's backup catcher, in that 
position for some games.[13] Fortunately for Berra, the team's pitchers 
made up for the injuries. Ace Whitey Ford performed consistently well, 
and Bouton had improved to his previous season's form by the end of April, 
to the point where he would finish the season with more wins than Ford. 
Al Downing, another younger player and the first African American Yankee 
on the mound, also pitched well in the early months, striking out an average 
of one batter per inning. But then Bouton and Downing were sidelined with 
strained muscles.[13] The relief pitchers also had their share of injuries, 
keeping Steve Hamilton and Hal Reniff from replicating their combined 23 
saves in 82 appearances of the previous season.[14] Berra was also having 
issues with the healthy players. Concerns about his capability to manage 
former teammates were, in the eyes of some media observers, proving justified. 
Reports began to circulate about late-night carousing by certain players, 
Mantle in particular. "He ran wild on Yogi", said sportswriter Maury Allen, 
"staying out late and carrying on".[15] This was in large part a matter 
of perception. Mantle and other players had done the same thing under Houk, 
who had never felt it necessary to impose a curfew on them. "After racking 
up yet another win under the lights", writes baseball historian Philip 
Bashe, "[Houk']s clubs were known to wind up under tables". Phil Pepe, 
who covered the team for the World-Telegram and Sun, noted that under Berra, 
the Yankees "weren't doing anything differently than before—except not 
winning".[15] Berra's exercise of managerial authority did create some 
friction between him and his former teammates. He benched third baseman 
Clete Boyer when his late night antics began affecting his play. "Our relationship 
at that time wasn't too good", Boyer said later, adding that he only appreciated 
the move when he himself became a coach after his playing career.[15] Berra's 
relationship with the pitching staff was rocky as well. He often criticized 
them in front of their teammates, something Houk had never done.[16] The 
relievers in particular began complaining to Houk about Berra having had 
them warm up in the bullpen only to leave his current pitcher in. This 
was consistent with a general pattern of indecisiveness some other players 
also noted. Hamilton recalled that Berra often wondered aloud about strategic 
decisions, asking, "Should I bunt? Should I steal?"[15] Despite these difficulties, 
the Yankees were still contenders. Mantle came back from his early injury 
and, while still suffering from it (in addition to continuing pain from 
older injuries[17]), continued to play well,[13] leading the team in home 
runs and runs batted in with 35 and 111, respectively.[18] Those numbers 
were impressive in an off year for hitters following recent pitcher-friendly 
rule changes; it would be Mantle's last good season.[19] Elston Howard, 
the team's first African American player, also avoided injury[13] and put 
up the team's best batting average, .313.[18] Despite their complaints 
of overwork, the relievers combined for a record of 20–7, with 15 saves 
during the summer months.[19] By early August, the Yankees, despite winning 
fewer games and winning less overwhelmingly than they had in recent years, 
were in a tight battle for the pennant with the Baltimore Orioles and Chicago 
White Sox.[15] By that time, the team's management had heard the players' 
complaints and the stories about the lack of discipline. The American League 
had queried the other nine teams about whether they would approve the sale 
of the Yankees to the CBS television network, the first word outside the 
two parties about a transaction that had been in the works since around 
the time Berra had been offered the manager's position; Topping and Webb 
did not want any negative publicity to disrupt the deal. According to sportswriter 
Joe Trimble, around August 12 Houk discreetly contacted Alvin Dark, then 
manager of the San Francisco Giants, about taking over from Berra after 
the season.[20] Dark was respected as a manager, and popular in New York 
from his days as a player when the Giants had been in that city, but he 
had also been involved in a recent controversy over a remark he had allegedly 
made suggesting that the team's African-American and Latino players were 
not as "mentally alert" as their white counterparts. While he claimed to 
have been misquoted, and many of his players defended him, the publicity 
reportedly prevented the Yankees from offering him the job. Since any such 
negotiations before the end of the season would have violated baseball's 
strict anti-tampering rules, no records exist and thus it is also uncertain 
if, at that time, the team had definitely decided to replace Berra.[20] 
With Dark out of the picture, the team reportedly made another effort to 
line up a replacement. Houk supposedly took advantage of a road trip to 
Kansas City late in the month to travel across Missouri and secretly meet 
with St. Louis Cardinals manager Johnny Keane, who was also reportedly 
having difficulty with some of his team's stars and seemed to be likely 
to be replaced himself after owner Gussie Busch had fired general manager 
Bing Devine earlier in the month.[21] The Cardinals were floundering, and 
seemed unlikely at that time to win the National League pennant. It is 
not known what the outcome of this meeting was or even if it actually took 
place.[22] The Yankees were also playing poorly by this point. On August 
17, they arrived in Comiskey Park for a four-game series with the White 
Sox which had the potential to give either team the upper hand in the pennant 
race, at least in regard to one another. The Yankees had lost 6 of the 
11 preceding games. Chicago won all four games in this series, including 
the final doubleheader on August 20, holding the Yankees scoreless in the 
second game as they got five runs off Ford in three innings.[15] After 
the last game, the Yankees dressed and got on the team bus to travel to 
O'Hare International Airport, from where they would fly to Boston for another 
four-game series against their archrivals, the Red Sox. The mood on board 
was generally subdued, almost somber. The sweep had dropped the Yankees 
to 4 1⁄2 games behind the White Sox, down into third place behind Baltimore. 
It did not seem likely that the Yankees could make up for the lost ground 
in the remaining weeks of the season no matter how well they played. "It 
looked like we were out of it", Clete Boyer recalled. "We figured Chicago 
and Baltimore couldn't both go into slumps".[23] The discomfort was further 
increased when the bus became stuck in traffic in hot weather. At the back, 
utility infielder Phil Linz was particularly upset, not only by the team's 
dire situation but because he had not played. Earlier in the season, he 
had played third when Berra had benched Boyer, shortstop while Tony Kubek 
had been injured, and briefly in the outfield when the starters were injured. 
He had hit very well against the White Sox pitchers, particularly their 
left-handers, and had taken a 10-game hitting streak into the series that 
had just concluded, yet he had remained on the bench during all four losses, 
with Berra declining to use him even as a pinch hitter.[23][24] "If there 
was any team you would play me against, it would be the White Sox", Linz 
said later.[23] By his own account, into which he admits he has incorporated 
others' reminiscences over the years, he was "resentful",[24] but he was 
also aware that despite his hitting success, his fielding had been deficient, 
and he believes the pitchers had complained to the manager. "Yogi started 
getting pressure to put Tony Kubek back in. Somebody—maybe Whitey Ford—said 
'You've got to get Phil out of there'".[23] Two hours after the game, the 
bus was making little progress, and Linz was still visibly upset, according 
to Jim Bouton, who often sat near him. To take his mind off his resentment, 
he pulled out a Hohner harmonica he had bought the day before when he ran 
into Tom Tresh and Kubek doing the same at Marshall Field's department 
store.[Note 2] Not knowing how to play the instrument, he also took out 
its by-the-numbers instruction booklet and began attempting to play the 
easiest song in it, "Mary Had a Little Lamb".[25] He played very slowly, 
following the directions in the booklet. He also tried to play it quietly, 
which Bouton suggested may have complicated matters given the team's mood. 
"If 'Mary Had a Little Lamb' can sound like a dirge, it did", he wrote 
later.[25] In the front of the otherwise quiet bus, Berra, seated with 
the team's other coaches, heard the harmonica playing, although he did 
not know who the player was. He did not think it was in any way appropriate 
behavior, especially after such a serious setback to the team's pennant 
chances. Accounts differ as to whether he knew at the time it was Linz, 
but it is agreed that Berra eventually said something in the general direction 
of the rear demanding that the harmonica playing stop.[25] Linz claims 
he did not hear exactly what his manager said, and asked Mickey Mantle, 
seated a few rows further forward, to repeat it. Mantle, who often played 
little jokes on his teammates, told Linz that Berra had asked him to play 
it louder, which Linz did. This in turn led Berra to get out of his seat 
and go to the back of the bus, supposedly yelling at Linz to "shove [it] 
up your ass! You'd think you just won four straight!"[23] As Berra confronted 
Linz, the harmonica for some reason—either Linz threw it to Berra or at 
him, or Berra knocked it out of his hand—became airborne. It struck first 
baseman Joe Pepitone in the knee strongly enough to cut him.[26] When it 
did, Pepitone humorously began feigning a more serious injury and yelling 
"Corpsman! Corpsman!" among other things.[27] With Berra now standing over 
him and, Linz believed, about to strike him, Linz stood up and shouted 
at him. "What are you getting on me for?" he said. "I give one hundred 
percent! Why don't you talk to some of these guys who aren't hustling?" 
"I was really an asshole", he later admitted.[23] All the passengers on 
the bus were now laughing, except for Berra and Frank Crosetti, the third 
baseman on the 1930s Yankees teams who was now a coach himself. As Berra 
returned to his seat promising to deal with Linz later, Crosetti raised 
his high-pitched voice and told Linz he was acting like a child. Linz, 
who admitted to disliking Crosetti, first because he was "kind of an old-timer 
and a little cranky" and second because he often was hard on backup players 
like Linz while avoiding confrontations with stars,[28] shouted, "Fuck 
you, Crow!" in response, further amusing the bus. Soon afterwards, Crosetti 
told the reporters who were traveling with the team that this insubordination 
was the worst thing he had ever seen in 33 years with the Yankees.[29] 
"It was hard not to laugh", Bouton, who heard the remark, recalled to Rob 
Neyer 50 years later. "This was really the worst thing ever? In the history 
of the franchise?"[30] Mantle picked up the harmonica and turned to Whitey 
Ford, who was sitting across the aisle. "It looks like I'm going to be 
managing this club pretty soon", he said, continuing his playful mood. 
"You can be my third base coach". He demonstrated how they would use the 
harmonica to relay signals to batters and runners. "One toot, that's a 
bunt. Two toots, that's a hit and run".[24] The incident had very different 
effects on Berra's relationship with the players and team management. Either 
on the plane[11] or after the Yankees reached Boston, Linz went to Berra 
and apologized. "Forget about it", the manager said, but the two nevertheless 
shook hands and embraced. However, Berra knew from his experience of the 
1957 incident at the Copacabana nightclub, where teammate Billy Martin's 
birthday party had led to a brawl with some other patrons over racial slurs 
directed at Sammy Davis Jr. and (ultimately) to Martin being traded, that 
any player who brought negative publicity to the team had to be fined, 
regardless of blame. "Phil", he said, "with all the writers there, I have 
to fine you. How much do you think it should be?" Linz replied that Berra 
was the manager and should set the amount. He suggested $250 ($2,000 in 
modern dollars[31]) and Linz agreed. "We were friends after that", the 
infielder recalled.[19] By the time the Yankees reached Boston, the reporters 
on the bus had gotten the story out, and it had received national attention.[32] 
The Yankees' sale to CBS had been announced, and writers jokingly asked 
if Linz would get a record contract as well. A radio station sent each 
Yankees player a harmonica; Linz got ten mailed to him, plus checks totaling 
$65 to help cover the fine. Hohner, which reported a sharp increase in 
sales,[29] signed Linz to a $5,000 ($38,000 in modern dollars[31]) endorsement 
deal, more than offsetting his fine. Joe Pepitone later joked that Linz 
should have brought a piano along on the bus so he would have made even 
more money.[19] "That would be funny, wouldn't it?" Houk commented in the 
press on reports that one Boston radio station was urging fans to bring 
harmonicas and kazoos to the games at Fenway Park to taunt Linz. He added, 
however, that he did not think Linz should have played the harmonica when 
he did. When the Yankees played the Mets in the Mayor's Trophy Game, an 
annual exhibition contest between the two teams, some of the Mets threw 
harmonicas onto the field. Linz suspected the action had been organized 
by one Met in particular, Tracy Stallard, his roommate at the time.[29] 
On the field, at first the incident seemed to be a distraction as the Yankees 
continued as they had in Chicago, being shut out again in the first game 
and losing the next by a 5–3 margin, extending their losing streak to six. 
In the third game, rookie pitcher Mel Stottlemyre, who had snapped two 
other Yankee losing streaks in his August starts, held the Sox scoreless 
as Mantle, Maris, and Blanchard hit home runs en route to an 8-0 victory. 
Another Mantle home run helped Jim Bouton split the series for the Yankees 
the next day.[32] These two wins were the start of a 22–6 run over the 
next four weeks. The White Sox lost three of four to Baltimore following 
their sweep of the Yankees, evening up the pennant race, but the Orioles 
were unable to build momentum from this; during a game in Boston before 
that, their star first baseman, Boog Powell, had chipped a bone after running 
into a wall at Fenway, putting him on the disabled list for three weeks. 
The Orioles slumped to 10–9 without him.[32] The following weekend, the 
Yankees swept the Red Sox at home, while the White Sox and the Orioles 
split a series of their own. "That's when we knew we had a chance", Clete 
Boyer later recalled. At the end of August, the Orioles' lead was only 
three games.[32] By the end of the season, the Yankees were 30–11 since 
the end of the White Sox' sweep. The surge was enough to put them in first 
place, one game ahead of Chicago, thus becoming league champions once again. 
Players and writers credited the Harmonica Incident with sparking the team's 
turnaround. "It will be told over and over for years to come how the 'dead' 
Yankees were revived and the 1964 pennant won because the manager, Yogi 
Berra, got mad at Phil Linz's harmonica playing on a bus", Leonard Koppett 
predicted.[33] Linz has speculated that his implicit criticism of his teammates' 
lack of effort when he responded to Berra on the bus "may have hit home 
with some of those guys".[32] It also helped establish Berra's role as 
the team manager with his players. "Out of that came the realization that 
Yogi was in charge", said second baseman Bobby Richardson.[32] Years later, 
Mantle agreed: "In our eyes, that was the first time Yogi showed us all 
his leadership qualities ... From then on the players showed more respect 
for [him]. They had seen his temper and believed he had drawn a line". 
Whitey Ford agreed that "this incident showed us he could be tough when 
he had to".[33] For his part, Berra repeatedly reassured the players when 
things seemed tough during September that "the world ain't come to an end 
yet", an early version of the more frequently quoted "It ain't over till 
it's over" that he would tell his Mets team during a similarly tight race 
in 1973.[19] Although Houk did his part to assist the Yankees' surge by 
making a late trade with the Cleveland Indians early in September for Pedro 
Ramos, bringing some badly needed help to the bullpen,[14] he and the other 
front-office executives did not share the players' newfound respect for 
Berra. The Harmonica Incident had dominated the sports pages just as news 
of the team's proposed sale to CBS had broken, a sale which was both controversial 
in and of itself, as not only was it the first time a major corporation 
had taken a majority stake in a Major League Baseball team, but there were 
also issues with the potential conflict of interest with a television network 
having a vote on the sport's lucrative television contract. White Sox owner 
Arthur Allyn, Jr. had voted against the deal because he said he had been 
given only three hours in the middle of the night to consider it before 
voting; while his vote (along with that of the Kansas City A's Charlie 
Finley, who had a longtime grudge against the Yankees) was not enough to 
stop the deal, the negative publicity convinced the league to hold another 
vote later in the month, with the result remaining the same.[34] The Yankees 
did not need the additional negative publicity the incident brought,[19] 
especially in light of the doubts it raised about Berra's ability to manage 
his former teammates effectively.[1][35] Houk decided sometime in early 
September, before it was evident that the team had united behind their 
manager and was turning its season around, that Berra had to be replaced. 
Through an intermediary, he let Keane know he could manage the Yankees 
the next season. The Cardinals' manager, who for his part knew Busch had 
been talking to Leo Durocher about replacing him after the season,[36] 
accepted.[20] The planned management changeover became more awkward during 
September. Not only did the Yankees come back and win the pennant, but 
the Cardinals, 11 games out of first place in early August, also managed 
to do the same thing as the Philadelphia Phillies, who, in first place 
for much of the year, blew a 6 1⁄2-game lead with two weeks remaining, 
the final act in that team's infamous "Phold". On the last day of the season, 
the Cards clinched the National League pennant, averting a possible three-way 
playoff.[37] In seven games, the Cardinals defeated the Yankees. Afterwards, 
the two teams held end-of-season news conferences. In St. Louis, owner 
Gussie Busch, who had changed his mind about letting Keane go after the 
Series win and was prepared to offer him a raise and a two-year extension, 
instead had to announce to reporters that Keane had handed in a letter 
of resignation immediately beforehand. The letter was backdated to the 
end of the regular season, and Keane explained that he had been talking 
over this decision with his wife shortly before then. He said he had no 
immediate plans beyond going fishing.[38] Shortly afterwards, New York 
reporters, who assumed that the team would announce that Berra was being 
rehired for at least the next season, were taken by surprise when Houk 
instead announced that Berra had been fired.[39] Asked who would replace 
him, Houk admitted that Dark was under consideration, and appeared surprised 
when he learned that Keane had abruptly resigned, saying that now that 
he was aware Keane was available, he too would be under consideration.[20] 
Houk denied that losing the Series had led to Berra's dismissal. He declined 
to elaborate on the reasons for the firing, saying only that "it was better 
for all concerned". Berra would remain with the team as a "special field 
consultant", primarily doing scouting work on other teams and prospective 
trades during the regular season. He was free to leave if another team 
offered him a position. "I don't mind", Berra said, when reached at a New 
Jersey golf course and told of the events. "I'll be spending the year at 
home. Where can you get a job like this? I don't have to sign in or punch 
a clock. And the pay is good".[39] Reports immediately circulated that 
Keane would be hired, and that he had, in fact, already accepted the position 
before the season ended. Four days later, Keane was formally announced 
as the Yankees' new manager. According to Houk, he was signed to a one-year 
contract; his salary was not disclosed but reportedly was better than what 
the Cardinals had offered him.[40] Some reporters found the circumstances 
suspicious and did not believe that Keane's sudden availability was a coincidence; 
Newsday columnist Stan Isaacs called Houk "the number-one charlatan, mountebank, 
quack, fop, fraud and ass of the sporting panorama".[41] Fan reaction was 
overwhelmingly negative;[42][43] some even wrote to Commissioner Ford Frick 
to complain.[44] It has been speculated in the subsequent years that Houk 
had more to do with Berra's firing than anyone above him, and that his 
reasons were more personal. "Houk didn't think Yogi was a good manager. 
Houk never backed Yogi up. Also, Yogi had not been Houk's choice", said 
Jim Bouton, who adds that Houk's biggest mistake was listening to the players 
who went to his office to complain, something that neither of his predecessors 
as manager nor general manager would have tolerated. "He never said, 'Mind 
your own business, and get the hell out of here'".[45] Clete Boyer was 
even more critical. "The truth was that Houk was jealous of Yogi", he claims. 
"Houk had been nothing but a scrub, a backup for years, and he resented 
the fact that Yogi was a much greater player and much more popular. And, 
in my opinion, just as good a manager".[46] As spring training began for 
the Yankees' next season, Houk spoke at some length about the turn of events 
at the end of the previous season. He called hiring Berra "his biggest 
mistake" as general manager. "The plain truth is that he was not ready 
to manage ... Nobody was more disappointed than I was". While he admitted 
that the decision to fire Berra had been made in late August, he denied 
the Harmonica Incident had anything to do with it. He would not discuss 
the actual reasons either, except to say that "they were very good ones".[47] 
Not everyone believed him then, or even now. Jim Bouton told Rob Neyer 
in 2014 that he believed the decision to fire Berra had been made "maybe 
right after Phil Linz decided to play his harmonica in Chicago".[30] Linz 
has said that he felt "partially responsible" for some time afterwards, 
but by 2013 he no longer believed it had been his fault. "I'm pretty sure 
from what I've heard that the Yankees had made a decision before that had 
happened".[2] There were no changes to the Yankees' roster in the offseason 
as significant as the management change, and many of the players believed 
they had a good chance at becoming league champions again and winning another 
Series. Looking over the team in spring training, Keane told a fellow coach 
that he had "never had so many good ballplayers" and should not have to 
change anything they did. However, he did. A career minor leaguer who had 
never played in the majors before managing there, he tried to instill the 
same work ethic and practice habits that had kept him playing. Many of 
the Yankees, who felt they had already established themselves and had never 
been treated that way by Berra, Houk, or Stengel, resented him as an outsider.[48] 
The cultural clash between Keane and the Yankees was even deeper when it 
came to off-field activities. "Johnny Keane was the wrong guy for so many 
reasons", Bouton recalled in his 2014 interview. "[We] were a party team. 
We out-drank, out-ate everybody, would be out carousing". Keane, on the 
other hand, was devoutly religious and imposed curfews and other strict 
rules on the team. "I don't remember if I said this first or someone else 
did, but hiring Johnny Keane was like putting Billy Graham in charge of 
the Hell's Angels".[30] At one point he attempted to make an example of 
a hungover Mickey Mantle by making him shag fly balls endlessly until Mantle 
retaliated by throwing the ball toward Keane's head. "When we did talk, 
there were no arguments", Mantle recalled. "More often than not, we had 
staring contests".[49] Injuries plagued the team as they had the year before, 
but Keane, who Bouton said "thought the players were babying themselves 
too much" made some play anyway. In conjunction with upper management, 
he concealed from Roger Maris the information that he had broken his hand 
until late in the season, an injury that left him unable to grip a bat 
as tightly as he had before. Elston Howard had to keep playing despite 
an arm injury, and the stress on Tony Kubek's bad back forced him into 
retirement at the end of the season.[49] Bouton also pitched most of the 
season with a sore arm, which he later realized had led to permanent damage.[30] 
The effect of the injuries on the team made some of Berra's moves the year 
before more understandable. He had played Mantle at first, and rested him 
regularly to keep him at his healthiest when he did play; Keane's decision 
to play Mantle in the outfield without a break clearly had a deleterious 
effect on the star. Kubek and Boyer's injuries were also aggravated by 
their lack of rest.[50] The Yankees ultimately finished the season in sixth 
place at 77–85, the first time in 40 years they had a losing record.[51] 
After the team started the next season with only 4 wins in its first 20 
games, Keane was fired. Houk returned to the dugout to manage but was unable 
to turn the season around,[52] and the Yankees finished 70–89, in last 
place for the first time since 1912.[53] The Yankees would not win the 
pennant again until 1976,[51] three years after CBS sold the team to George 
Steinbrenner at a loss.[54] Berra, who had coached and managed the New 
York Mets to the 1973 World Series in the interim, returned to the Yankees 
as a coach that season under manager Billy Martin, a teammate on the 1950s 
Yankees teams. In 1983, he would succeed Martin as manager.[55] In the 
years since the Harmonica Incident, it has been remembered both as the 
beginning of the Yankees' 1964 comeback and the harbinger of the team's 
collapse over the next two seasons. In 2005, Bobby Richardson recalled 
that there were some ways during that season in which "the team concept 
was eroding a bit". When it came to dividing World Series shares, he notes, 
the players did not give as much to younger players and the team's clubhouse 
attendants as they had in previous years. Even Berra, he says, was not 
immune—on the way home from St. Louis after the Series loss, he asked Richardson 
and his wife if he should ask for a two-year contract, and they agreed.[4] 
Berra never did the scouting his post-managerial contract called for. Within 
a week of his firing, he was contacted by the Mets and offered a coaching 
position with them, which he accepted, reuniting him and Stengel.[56] He 
also returned to the lineup for four games; after performing poorly, he 
retired as a player for good.[57] Linz, who appeared in a Hohner ad with 
the line "Play it again, Phil" on the back of the Yankees' 1965 yearbook,[1] 
was traded to the Phillies after the 1965 season. That team eventually 
traded him to the Mets in 1968, where he was reunited with Berra. The two 
posed for a humorous picture with Linz playing the harmonica and Berra 
covering his ears and smiling;[2] Linz still uses the picture on his business 
cards.[58] That season would be Linz's last. "If people remember me at 
all", he recalled in 2013, "they remember me as a harmonica player, because 
I sure wasn't too good of a baseball player".[1] He still carries the harmonica 
with him, and can now play "Mary Had a Little Lamb" more expertly.[2] Ralph 
Houk managed the Yankees through the end of the 1973 season, never having 
done better than a second-place finish in the American League East in 1970. 
He would later manage the Detroit Tigers and Boston Red Sox during transitional 
periods that did not see either team reach the postseason. Upon his death 
in 2010, Berra biographer Allen Barra reminded readers of Houk's role in 
Berra's 1964 firing. "Yes, Ralph Houk was a brave man and risked his life 
for his country at Normandy", he wrote. "But that doesn't excuse his complicity 
in a moment in Yankee history more shameful than anything perpetrated by 
George Steinbrenner".[59] Berra stayed with the Mets as a coach through 
several other managerial changes, sharing in that team's 1969 World Series 
victory under manager Gil Hodges. After Hodges' death during spring training 
in 1972, Berra was named his successor. That year he was also inducted 
into the Hall of Fame. The following season, he oversaw another comeback 
much like the 1964 Yankees, taking the Mets from 5 1⁄2 games out of first 
place at the end of August to the pennant, followed by a 4 games to 3 games 
loss in that year's Series to the Oakland A's.[55] Clete Boyer has said 
that that achievement should put to rest any of the doubts about Berra's 
managerial acumen which were used to justify his dismissal. He told Berra 
biographer Allan Barra: I'm going to tell you something that should have 
been said a long time ago, and I mean no disrespect to any of the guys 
I played with. We weren't the best team in the league in 1964. We got to 
the World Series and damn near won it because, in the end, Yogi had faith 
in us and we had faith in him. And you know what? He did the same thing 
with the New York Mets in 1973, and no one's going to tell me that they 
were the best team in the National League that year. Now don't tell me 
it's just a coincidence that he did that twice.[46] In 1974, shortly before 
his death, former owner Del Webb relayed a message through his doctor, 
who also occasionally saw Berra, that he had made a mistake in firing Yogi.[60] 
The Mets fired Berra in August 1975, due to the team's poor performance 
that season. He returned to the Yankees as a coach the next season under 
former teammate Billy Martin to win the pennant again and return to the 
World Series, albeit to be swept by the Cincinnati Reds (the coincidence 
of those two occurrences has been noted[61]). The Yankees would go on to 
win the next two Series. Berra remained as a coach throughout the team's 
managerial changes in the early 1980s.[55] In 1983, after firing Martin 
for the third time, George Steinbrenner, who had bought the team from CBS 
ten years earlier, promoted Berra to the manager's position. The fans were 
happy to see Berra at long last given a second chance; the players liked 
him as much as their 1964 counterparts had. The season followed the same 
pattern as 1964 and 1973 had: a slow start, followed by the best record 
in baseball after the All-Star break. The team finished 87–75 in 1984, 
17 games behind the first-place Detroit Tigers, who went on to win the 
Series.[61] Despite the second-place finish, the Yankees had never been 
in contention, and Berra was concerned that the mercurial Steinbrenner 
might decide to make a change. Before the next season, Berra sought assurances 
that he would be allowed to manage the season out, and Steinbrenner responded 
by publicly guaranteeing that "Yogi is the manager, win or lose". Notwithstanding 
that promise, he fired Berra 16 games into the season, rehiring Martin. 
The players reacted angrily, so much so that when Martin hired former Tigers 
outfielder Willie Horton as a coach, insiders said Horton's real purpose 
was to be Martin's bodyguard should he and player Don Baylor fight.[61] 
Steinbrenner did not personally inform Berra that he had been fired, instead 
leaving that task to general manager Clyde King. He broke the news to Berra 
in the visiting manager's office at Comiskey Park, where the Yankees had 
once again been swept by the White Sox. Players, who had heard the news, 
were nevertheless surprised to find Berra seated in the front of the team 
bus, which let him off at O'Hare where he flew back to New York.[61] In 
1964, Berra had reportedly taken the firing personally, but knew better 
than to be angry about it publicly. This time he was even angrier, since 
Steinbrenner had sent King to do the job rather than face Yogi as Topping 
and Webb had. He publicly vowed never to set foot in Yankee Stadium again 
as long as Steinbrenner owned the team.[61] That lasted until 1999, when 
Steinbrenner traveled from Florida to Berra's home in New Jersey to personally 
apologize for having not fired him in person 14 years before. Berra's return 
to the stadium shortly afterwards was celebrated as "Yogi Berra Day". Don 
Larsen, whose perfect game in the 1956 World Series he had caught, threw 
out the ceremonial first pitch to Berra. It was followed by Yankee pitcher 
David Cone throwing his own perfect game against the Montreal Expos.[61] 
