Harold Wampler Arlin (December 8, 1895[1]–March 14, 1986) was an American 
engineer and foreman and was arguably the world's first full-time and salaried 
announcer in broadcast radio.[2][3] Arlin originally worked as an engineer 
and later foreman for the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company 
when he was hired as a part-time announcer by KDKA, the nation's first 
commercially licensed radio station, in Pittsburgh in 1920. On November 
2, 1920, Arlin made history as the radio's first announcer when he read 
over-the-air the returns to the 1920 presidential election between Senator 
Warren G. Harding and Governor James M. Cox. Arlin was soon hired full-time 
at KDKA. During his tenure at KDKA, Arlin became the first to announce 
radio broadcasts of a baseball game (August 5, 1921), tennis match (August 
6, 1921), football game (October 8, 1921), and a boxing match (September 
14, 1923).[4] Arlin also interviewed many celebrities on the air, including 
Babe Ruth, Will Rogers, Lillian Gish and William Jennings Bryan. He spent 
five years at KDKA, where he was nicknamed the "Voice of America". Listeners 
on several continents could hear KDKA and Arlin's broadcasts, and The London 
Times called him "the best known American voice in Europe".[5] Harold Wampler 
Arlin was born December 8, 1895 in La Harpe, Illinois[6] to parents Byron 
Addison Arlin (1862–1918) and Emma (née Wampler) (1865–1944). His father 
was a farmer. Arlin also had an older sister named Lora.[7] The Arlins 
moved to Carthage, Missouri shortly after Harold's birth. Arlin graduated 
with a degree in engineering[8] from the University of Kansas in 1917 and 
soon after moved to Pittsburgh where he obtained a job as an electrical 
engineer for the Westinghouse Electric Company.[9] KDKA 1020 in Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania received its broadcasting license on November 2, 1920, making 
the station the first commercially licensed radio station in the world. 
Dr. Frank Conrad, friend and fellow Westinghouse engineer as well as one 
of the founders of KDKA, invited Arlin and several others engineers from 
Westinghouse to a tour of the KDKA studios which, at the time, were in 
a shack on the roof of a Westinghouse plant. Whilst on the roof, another 
friend invited Arlin to say a few words into a microphone nearby. Arlin 
did, and because his voice proved clear, crisp, resonant, friendly and 
appealing, Arlin was hired as a full-time announcer, making him the first 
radio announcer in the world.[10] The station's inaugural broadcast was 
the reading of the returns from the election held earlier that day.[11] 
Arlin read the results on a makeshift microphone in a shack on the roof 
atop the K Building of the Westinghouse Electric Company "East Pittsburgh 
Works" in Turtle Creek, Pennsylvania.[12] On August 5, 1921, Arlin became 
the first person to announce a Major League Baseball game[13] and the game 
itself was the first baseball game ever broadcast on radio.[14][15] The 
teams playing that day were the Pittsburgh Pirates and the Philadelphia 
Phillies from the historic Forbes Field in Pittsburgh.[16] Arlin sat in 
a converted ground-level box seat at Forbes Field and provided play-by-play 
analysis of the game using a converted telephone as a microphone and some 
jerry-rigged equipment set up behind home plate.[17] The game was broadcast 
over Arlin's KDKA. In the end, the visiting Phillies lost to the homebound 
Pirates 8-5.[18] KDKA's broadcast of the Pirates vs. Phillies game provided 
the inspiration for other radio stations across the country over the next 
few years to broadcast games like baseball and other professional sports. 
Soon after, radio baseball began its rapid ascent in American culture. 
Before radio, fans turned to visual displays or structures that showed 
the progress of a game. These structures were usually manually operated 
by someone who was informed about the game through telegraph.[19][20] On 
August 6, the very next day after the baseball game broadcast, Arlin announced 
the first radio broadcast of a tennis match also over KDKA.[21] Arlin announced 
the quarterfinals of the match which began on the 4th. Australia took on 
Great Britain at the Allegheny County Club in Pittsburgh for the prestigious 
Davis Cup. Australia beat Great Britain 3-2 and went all the way to the 
finals only to lose to Japan 4-1.[22][23] KDKA again made history in the 
fall of 1921 when they broadcast the first live radio broadcast of a college 
football game.[24] On October 8,[25] Arlin, from the same box seat at Forbes 
Field used to broadcast the Pirates vs. Phillies game two months earlier, 
provided play-by-play to listeners at home of the Backyard Brawl rivalry 
game between the University of Pittsburgh Panthers and the West Virginia 
University Mountaineers.[26] Pittsburgh won the game 21–13,[27][28] after 
West Virginia's George Hill returned a kick-off for a touchdown on the 
final play of the game.[29] On September 14, 1923, heavyweights Jack Dempsey 
and Luis Ángel Firpo fought for the champion heavyweight title in what 
has been called the boxing match of the century. The fight marked the first 
time a Latin American fighter would challenge for the world Heavyweight 
title and was the first boxing match broadcast over the radio. Dempsey 
had been champion since 1919, and Firpo was one of the top heavyweights 
of the world, nicknamed "El Toro de las Pampas" ("The Bull of the Pampas"). 
80,000 fans paid to see the fight live. Dempsey won the fight and Arlin 
did a recreation of the events over the radio from a wire report sent to 
him from the ringside in New York City. Just as Arlin told listeners, "Firpo 
threw a terrific right, knocking Dempsey out of the ring", his in to New 
York broke. Another announcer, standing by for such an emergency, grabbed 
the nearest piece of copy and began reading "...with hogs up two cents 
a pound...".[30] That same year, Arlin announced the first short-wave broadcast 
to Great Britain. This gave Arlin more range and notoriety and popularity 
throughout the world. Arlin's voice soon could be heard on the short-wave 
radio broadcasts to the cities of Johannesburg, South Africa and Melbourne, 
Australia.[30] His newfound recognition was noted in an article from The 
London Times that called Arlin "the best known American voice in Europe". 
In 1924, Arlin was voted most popular radio announcer and in 1925, he helped 
organized the Radio Announcers of America. Harold Arlin is also believed 
amongst many historians to be the first to utilize the celebrity interview.[31] 
There are no immediate available sources to dispute this claim. During 
his time at KDKA, Arlin interviewed on the air humorist Will Rogers, actress 
Lillian Gish, orator/politician William Jennings Bryan and baseball legend 
Babe Ruth. Arlin later recalled in an interview conducted in 1952 that 
Ruth had such a terrible case of "mike fright" that Arlin had to take the 
script out of his hands and read it himself.[32] Arlin left KDKA and radio 
altogether in 1925. Arlin also left Pittsburgh taking his wife and children 
and moving to Mansfield, Ohio the following year. Arlin also returned to 
engineering becoming the personnel manager for Westinghouse's Mansfield 
manufacturing plant. Arlin also became very active and productive in the 
city of Mansfield. In his later years, Arlin accepted positions on Mansfield's 
Chamber of Commerce, Board of Education, local Boy Scouts, Community Fund 
and served as president of the city's Rotary Club from 1934 to 1935 and 
attended the Rotary International Convention in Nice in 1937.[33] Arlin 
was married three times. His first wife was Emily Pace. Pace was born in 
1897 to Arthur Pace and Emily (née Riley) in McKeesport, Pennsylvania.[34] 
Arlin and Pace were married in 1920 and had three children together; Ralph 
Wampler Arlin (October 13, 1921–June 25, 2006), Edward Arlin and Dorothy 
Hershey. The two remained married for 34 years until Pace's death at age 
56 on September 14, 1954. There are no available records of his second 
marriage. His third marriage was to Ida Lee Dean. They were married sometime 
in the early 1970s and remained so until Arlin's death. Edward S. "Ed" 
Arlin was born on July 8, 1924 in Pittsburgh. He graduated from Mansfield 
Senior High School in 1942, served as an Ensign in the United States Navy 
during World War II before returning home and graduating from the University 
of Cincinnati. Ed Arlin was also a member of the 1946 University of Georgia 
National Football Championship team. Ed retired from Portage Electric Products 
of North Canton, Ohio and was a former partner and co-founder of Norwalk 
Thermostat in Norwalk, Ohio where he moved to in 1958. Arlin was married 
for 60 years to E. Joan Beard and the two had six children. Ed Arlin died 
on November 12, 2011 age 87 at the Fisher-Titus Medical Center in Norwalk.[35] 
Dorothy Hershey was born Dorothy Arlin on April 7, 1926 in Mansfield. Like 
her brothers, Hershey graduated from Mansfield Senior High School. She 
later attended and graduated from Miami University. She was employed by 
Norwalk City Schools as a substitute teacher in the late 1950s and was 
head of the drapery department at Hills Interiors in Norwalk from 1960 
to 1980. Hershey was a member of the Girl Scouts of the United States of 
America (GSUSA) for 80 years, serving as the Norwalk Girl Scout neighborhood 
chairman from 1956 to 1968. She was also a member of the Norwalk First 
United Methodist Church. Hershey was married for 55 years to Howard A. 
Hershey, the athletic director at Norwalk High School, who preceded her 
in death. The Hersheys had two children together; Lura Magi and David Hershey. 
Hershey died on October 13, 2013, at Stein Hospice Care Center in Sandusky, 
Ohio.[36] Arlin's grandson Steven Ralph Arlin, more commonly known as Steve 
Arlin, is a former professional baseball player, a major league pitcher 
with the San Diego Padres and Cleveland Indians for six seasons from 1969 
to 1974.[37] On November 4, 1952, Arlin temporarily returned to radio, 
announcing his first radio broadcast in twenty-seven years. The broadcast 
was sponsored by Westinghouse, Arlin's former employer, and was the results 
from the presidential election held that day between former General Dwight 
D. Eisenhower and former Illinois Governor Adlai Stevenson. Like the Harding-Cox 
election returns 32 years before, Arlin read the results over the air to 
an entire nation of listeners.[31] Republican Eisenhower won the election 
and was President of the United States until 1961. In 1972, Arlin announced 
his first professional baseball game in more than 50 years. The game was 
between the Pirates and the Padres. Arlin's grandson Steve was pitcher 
for the Padres at this time. Announcer Bob Prince invited Arlin to come 
back to the broadcasting booth. Prince and Arlin announced the game together 
as the Padres won. For announcing the game, Arlin received a certificate 
and a pair of shoes which, according to his grandson Steve, "...he wore 
[them] all the time."[38] Arlin and his third wife Ida Lee split their 
time between Norwalk, where they lived during the warm months and Bakersfield, 
California, where they lived during the winter months. Arlin was in Bakersfield 
when he suffered a major heart attack on March 2, 1986. He spent ten days 
in a Bakersfield hospital until he was discharged on March 12. Arlin returned 
to his winter home where he died of complications on March 14. Arlin was 
90 years old.[39] Arlin was survived by his third wife Ida Lee Dean, sons 
Ralph and Edward and daughter Dorothy. He also left behind 11 grandchildren 
including grandson Steve, and 14 great-grandchildren. Arlin was buried 
next to first wife Emily on March 19 in Mansfield Cemetery, Mansfield, 
