Harry Clay Pulliam (February 9, 1869 – July 29, 1909) was an American baseball 
executive who served as the sixth President of the National League. He 
served from 1903 until his death in 1909.[1] He was president during the 
period in which the National League and the fledgling American League settled 
their hostilities and formed a National Agreement which led to the creation 
of the World Series. Harry Clay Pulliam was born on February 9, 1869 in 
Scottsville, Kentucky. Early in his life, his father, a tobacco businessman, 
moved the family to Louisville,[2] where he attended public schools.[3] 
Pulliam received his law degree from the University of Virginia.[3] In 
the late 1880s, after working for newspapers in California, Pulliam became 
a reporter for the Louisville Commercial,[2] He quickly advanced through 
the ranks, and was considered one of the leading authorities on the game 
and history of baseball. Soon after receiving a promotion to City Editor 
of the Commercial, he met the owner of the Louisville Colonels, Barney 
Dreyfuss. Dreyfuss liked Pulliam and hired him away from the newspaper, 
appointing him to the position of club secretary in 1890.[2] In 1897, Dreyfuss 
promoted Pulliam to club president.[2] Pulliam negotiated an ownership 
position of the Colonels.[citation needed] There he selected Honus Wagner 
as a player.[3] When the National League contracted from 12 to eight teams 
in 1899, Pulliam moved to the Pittsburgh Pirates, and convinced Wagner 
to come with him. In his book, Wagner credited Pulliam with arranging for 
him to stay with Pittsburgh and not leave for another franchise. Wagner 
stayed with Pittsburgh until retirement. Pulliam was unanimously elected 
president of the National League in December 1902.[3] Pulliam's most controversial 
decision came late in the 1908 season, following a game between the New 
York Giants and Chicago Cubs in which Giants first baseman Fred Merkle 
(at 19 the youngest player in the Major Leagues), standing on first base, 
saw his team score a run to win the game and became so excited that he 
failed to step on second base, thus nullifying the run and leaving the 
game tied. The excited spectators ran onto the field in joy, thinking the 
Giants had won. Home plate umpire Hank O'Day deemed it impossible to restore 
order on the field to resume the game, and ruled that the run did not count. 
Due to darkness, the game was declared a tie. His decision was submitted 
to the league president, Pulliam, who agreed with the umpire. The report 
unsparingly castigated Merkle for his "stupid play"—a "reckless, careless, 
inexcusable blunder."[4] The game was later replayed (due to the Giants 
and Cubs finishing the season with identical records atop the National 
League), with the Cubs winning to capture the pennant. They went on to 
win the World Series that year, and Merkle has been blamed for the loss 
ever since. The pressure of the 1908 decision resulted in Pulliam taking 
several months off, and his discussion of retirement. Pulliam shot himself 
in the head in his apartment at the New York Athletic Club at 9:30 pm on 
July 29, 1909. He lingered for several hours before dying. He was depressed 
over his ill health.[1] Pulliam was buried at Cave Hill Cemetery, Louisville, 
Kentucky. Baseball was halted in both the American and National Leagues 
for the first time in baseball history on the day he was buried. A special 
baseball card was created in his honor and distributed at the World Series. 
He was the first person honored by baseball with all players wearing armbands 
for 30 days.[5] Pulliam's level of admiration and importance to baseball 
can best be described by those in attendance at his funeral. The honorary 
pallbearers included Ban Johnson, president of the American League; John 
Heydler, secretary and treasurer of the National League (subsequently succeeding 
Pulliam as President); the secretary of the National Baseball Commission, 
and the presidents of the Pirates, St. Louis Cardinals, Brooklyn Dodgers 
and Philadelphia Phillies.[6] Pulliam's axiom "Take Nothing For Granted 
In Baseball"[7] is still used this day. In fact, this quote of Pulliam's 
was printed in a New York Times article in 1922, thirteen years after his 
death.[8] Upon Pulliam's death, organized baseball passed an amendment 
that each year on the first day of the World Series, a special honorary 
baseball card with his likeness be distributed to everyone involved with 
the baseball organization and that flowers be delivered to his grave on 
that same day. This tribute continued until the late 1920s. In its amendment, 
the baseball commission wrote, "Organized baseball never had a more zealous 
and devoted sponsor."[9] In 1897, while President of the Louisville Colonels, 
Pulliam was nominated as a Democratic Kentucky legislator for his ward 
in Louisville. He was nominated while on the road for the Colonels and 
did not campaign for the position.[10] He was elected, and served the sixth 
and seventh wards of Louisville.[3] Later, he received the title of "Red 
Bird Statesman" for the introduction of a bill to protect the species.[3] 
