Harry Herbert Frazee (June 29, 1880 – June 4, 1929) was an American theatrical 
agent, producer and director, and owner of the Major League Baseball Boston 
Red Sox from 1916 to 1923. He is well known for selling Babe Ruth to the 
New York Yankees, and starting the Curse of the Bambino. Harry Frazee was 
born June 29, 1880 in Peoria, Illinois, son of William and Margaret Frazee. 
He attended Peoria High School, where he was a baseball teammate of Harry 
Bay, who later played for Major League Baseball teams in Cincinnati and 
Cleveland. At 16, Frazee became assistant manager of the Peoria Theater. 
Within a year, he was player-coach of the Peoria Distillers semi-pro baseball 
club. As his theatrical endeavors continued, Frazee moved to Chicago, where 
he built the Cort Theater in 1907. After several successful shows, Frazee 
went to New York City, where in 1913 he built the Longacre Theatre on West 
48th Street and staged hit plays such as Fine Feathers by Eugene Walter 
and the musical Adele. He also promoted a boxing match between Jess Willard 
and Jack Johnson on April 5, 1915 in Havana, Cuba and was reported by then 
to be a millionaire. Frazee bought the Boston Red Sox baseball team from 
Joseph Lannin for a reported $500,000 after their victory in the 1916 World 
Series. The Sox won another World Series title in 1918. The team finished 
in sixth in 1919, and after the 1919 season Frazee started selling players 
to the New York Yankees, most notoriously Babe Ruth. Then he left the Red 
Sox in bankruptcy while continuing to make theatre productions. After the 
sale of Ruth, the team crashed into the American League cellar and would 
not finish above .500 until 1934. The Red Sox would not win another pennant 
until 1946, and would not win another World Series until 2004, the third 
longest drought in MLB history. Frazee backed a number of New York theatrical 
productions (before and after Ruth's sale), the best known of which is 
probably No, No, Nanette, which was once claimed, and later debunked, as 
the specific play that Ruth's sale financed. He was the subject of an unflattering 
portrait in Fred Lieb's account of the Red Sox, which further insinuated 
that he had sold Ruth to finance a Broadway musical. This would become 
a central element in the Curse of the Bambino. The truth is somewhat more 
nuanced and has as much to do with a long-running dispute between Frazee 
and American League founder and president Ban Johnson as it does with Frazee's 
finances. Frazee had been the first American League owner who hadn't been 
essentially hand-picked by Johnson, and wasn't willing to simply do Johnson's 
bidding. Although they seemed to settle their differences when Frazee hired 
Ed Barrow, a friend of Johnson's, as manager, things heated up again when 
Frazee loudly criticized Johnson's handling of the issues brought about 
by the United States entering World War I. In response, Johnson began actively 
campaigning to yank the Red Sox from under Frazee.[1] The dispute finally 
boiled over in the summer of 1919 when pitcher Carl Mays jumped the team. 
Johnson ordered him suspended, but Frazee instead sold him to the then-moribund 
Yankees. Johnson had promised Yankee owners Jacob Ruppert and Cap Huston 
to get them better players, but never followed through. The Mays flap divided 
the American League into two factions—the Yankees, Red Sox and Chicago 
White Sox on one side and the other five clubs, known as the "Loyal Five", 
on the other.[2] Under the circumstances, when Frazee finally lost patience 
with Ruth (see below), his options were severely limited. Under pressure 
from Johnson, the Loyal Five rejected Frazee's overtures almost out of 
hand. In effect, Johnson limited Frazee to dealing with either the White 
Sox or the Yankees. The White Sox offered Joe Jackson and $60,000, but 
the Yankees offered an all-cash deal--$25,000 up front and three promissory 
notes of $25,000 each, plus a $300,000 loan to be secured by a mortgage 
on Fenway Park. With the note from Lannin that he'd used in part to finance 
his purchase of the Red Sox having come due in November 1919, Frazee had 
little choice but to take the Yankees' offer. Ruth became the property 
of the Yankees on January 5, 1920.[1][2] The Ruth sale cemented the Red 
Sox-Yankees alliance, which was ironic given their historically bitter 
rivalry. A few months later, the two teams drew even closer together in 
a dispute over Fenway Park. When Guliano bought the Red Sox, Fenway Park 
was not part of the deal. Instead, he rented it for $30,000 per year from 
the Fenway Realty Trust. A majority of the trust's stock was controlled 
by the Taylor family, publishers of the Boston Globe. The Taylor family 
had owned the Red Sox from 1904 to 1911 and actually built Fenway in the 
first place. They still held a small ownership interest. This put Frazee 
in a very difficult spot. If Johnson ever revoked the franchise, it would 
be relatively easy for a new owner to get a lease for the park. In August 
1919, Frazee began negotiations to buy out the shares in the trust held 
by Lannin and the Taylors. In this way, if Johnson ever yanked the franchise 
out from under Frazee, any prospective owner of a Boston American League 
team would risk being left without a place to play. However, Frazee had 
stopped paying installments because of a dispute over who owed Boston's 
share of MLB's settlement with the Federal League. In the spring of 1920, 
Lannin finally made good on a threat to slap a lien on the Red Sox. Since 
the lien barred Frazee from trading players or buying Fenway without Lannin's 
permission, Lannin effectively controlled the team. Lannin also threatened 
to sell his interest in the Fenway Realty Trust, which would have opened 
the door for a new owner to buy into the park if Frazee lost the franchise. 
Eventually, Lannin and Frazee reached a settlement. Lannin agreed to pay 
the Federal League bill and would not oppose Frazee's purchase of Fenway. 
In return, Frazee resumed payments. On May 3, Frazee and Taylor signed 
a deal to pay off the existing mortgage and make Frazee sole owner of Fenway 
Park. As an additional security measure, Frazee secured a $300,000 loan 
from the Yankees and used a second mortgage on Fenway as collateral. Frazee 
had every intention of using the money from the Ruth deal to get better 
players. However, his theater interests had not done particularly well 
since 1918, and he found it difficult to service the debt on both Fenway 
Park and the Red Sox. His cash shorts became even more acute after the 
remortgage of Fenway Park. He was thus forced to put the team's best players 
on the market in order to get cash.[1] Unfortunately, he found it difficult 
to make deals with the "Loyal Five" even after Ruth left for the Bronx. 
With the White Sox' reputation in tatters following the Black Sox Scandal, 
Frazee was left with little choice but to deal with the Yankees.[2] Over 
the next three years, Frazee sold virtually all of the Red Sox' top players 
to the Yankees, netting him a total of $305,000.[1] Below is a record of 
the other trades (besides Ruth) that Frazee made with the Yankees from 
1918 to 1923.[3] The above only includes the trades Frazee made to the 
Yankees from 1918 to 1923, when he was owner of the Red Sox. The Encyclopedia 
lists about 40 trades in all made by the Red Sox in those years, including 
to teams other than the Yankees. It has been argued that the deals with 
the Yankees made a modicum of sense at the time, and only a stroke of bad 
luck turned them into Yankee heists. Notably, the players sent to Boston 
suffered a rash of injuries[2] However, this is belied by the fact that 
Barrow became general manager of the Yankees in 1921. He'd managed nearly 
all of the players who came to New York in these deals, and was almost 
certainly aware of who he was getting.[1] In 1921, an article in the virulently 
anti-Semitic Dearborn Independent claimed that Frazee was one of many Jews 
who had ruined baseball. Although Frazee was not Jewish, the article played 
up longstanding stereotypes about Broadway impresarios. Frazee was unable 
to respond, since at the time it was published he was not only dealing 
with a divorce, but the death of his father. The article wrecked any chance 
Frazee had of rehabilitating himself. Although he was forced to sell to 
a syndicate of Midwestern businessmen fronted by Johnson crony Bob Quinn, 
he held out for $1.2 million—nearly double what he paid for the team in 
1916. Ironically, the Red Sox had some of their worst seasons ever under 
Quinn's ownership after one of his principal investors died.[2] In 1929, 
Harry Frazee died of kidney failure in his Park Avenue home with his wife 
and son at his side. He is interred at Kensico Cemetery. Lou Gehrig and 
Ed Barrow are also interred at Kensico. In 2005, ESPN Classic aired an 
episode in The Top 5 Reasons You Can't Blame... series in which it examined 
the sale, and explained why Frazee cannot be held as the scapegoat: An 
"honorable mention" was Shoeless Joe Jackson. Frazee wanted to trade Ruth 
to the White Sox for Jackson, but the Black Sox Scandal scuttled those 
