Henry Harrison Diddlebock (June 27, 1854 – February 5, 1900) was a sportswriter 
and Major League Baseball manager. Formerly a head sportswriter for two 
Philadelphia newspapers, Diddlebock managed 17 games with the St. Louis 
Browns in the 1896 season. He had a 7–10 record (a .412 winning percentage). 
Prior to assuming the managerial job with the Browns, Diddlebock had never 
played or managed in the major leagues. He was the head sportswriter for 
the The Philadelphia Times for eleven years and held the same position 
at the The Philadelphia Inquirer for six years.[1] He was the longtime 
president of an organization known as the Scorer's Association, and he 
was a horse racing official. He also covered the famed 1892 fight between 
boxers John L. Sullivan and James J. Corbett.[2] Within baseball, Diddlebock 
variously served as president, secretary and treasurer for the Eastern 
League, a minor league that served as one of the precursors to the International 
League.[3] He later held financial interest in a team in the Pennsylvania 
State League, which became a rival of the Eastern League.[4] In December 
1895, he was hired as the manager of the St. Louis Browns for the 1896 
season by the team's owner, Chris von der Ahe.[1] The Browns and their 
owner were held in low regard at the time. Sportswriter Alfred Henry Spink 
wrote that "Mr. Diddlebock's mission will be to repair the damage Von der 
Ahe has done the game and the St. Louis club."[5] Newspapers in St. Louis 
were initially supportive of Diddlebock, but before he took the field, 
the team was embroiled in controversy when it was announced that they would 
spend $30,000 to bring in five star players from Philadelphia. The Browns 
did not have the money to finance such a deal, and von der Ahe blamed Diddlebock 
for the story that had gotten out.[1] Sources differ as to the exact sequence 
of events that led to Diddlebock's firing as manager. At least one source 
notes that Diddlebock came to the ballpark with bruising and swelling about 
his face, claiming to have been attacked by a band of six men. The source 
says he was sent home by von der Ahe and that a private detective found 
he had fallen asleep at a drinking establishment and sustained a fall off 
of a barstool.[6] Another version holds that Diddlebock had been found 
by police officers on the streets very early one morning and that it was 
discovered that he took a drunken fall off of a streetcar. In either case, 
von der Ahe fired Diddlebock three weeks into his only season as manager.[1] 
Diddlebock finished the stint with a 7–10 win-loss record.[7] After his 
time as manager, Diddlebock returned to the staff of the Inquirer to write 
about horse racing. In early 1900, he developed what was thought to be 
a bad cold. He was later diagnosed with erysipelas. The infection affected 
Diddlebock's heart and he died on February 5, 1900.[nb 1] Diddlebock was 
survived by his two sons; his wife had died two years earlier.[3] He is 
