The Harrisburg City Islanders are an American professional soccer team 
based in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, United States. Founded in 2003, the 
team plays in the United Soccer League, the third tier of the American 
Soccer Pyramid.[1] The team had played its home games at Skyline Sports 
Complex, located on Harrisburg's City Island since 2004. The 2016 season 
will be played at neighboring FNB Field. The team's colors are tropical 
blue, navy blue, and white. Their current head coach is Bill Becher who 
has been with the club since its formation. The City Islanders also field 
a team in the USL’s Super-20 League, a league for players 17 to 20 years 
of age, operated by the United Soccer Leagues. On March 1, 2010, the City 
Islanders entered into an agreement to become the official USL affiliate 
of Major League Soccer's Philadelphia Union. After five years of cooperation, 
it was announced on August 19, 2015 that the affiliation would dissolve 
at the conclusion of the 2015 season as the Union would develop their own 
USL team, Bethlehem Steel FC, in the Lehigh Valley starting in 2016.[2] 
It was announced on January 26, 2016 that the City Islanders would play 
10 their home matches at FNB Field which neighbors the Skyline Sports Complex 
on City Island. The stadium will be joint use with the Harrisburg Senators 
of the Minor League Baseball EL. And 5 of their home matches will be at 
Clipper Magazine Stadium in neighboring Lancaster, Pennsylvania. The City 
Islanders were powerful contenders in the second division, finishing fifth 
in their inaugural season and qualifying for the playoffs, where they were 
eliminated in the first round by the Pittsburgh Riverhounds. The City Islanders 
improved on this showing in their second year, as they finished third in 
the league with a 12–3–5 record, but were eliminated from the playoffs 
by the eventual champions, the Charlotte Eagles. In 2005, Bill Becher was 
named USL-2 Coach of the Year, while Chad Severs was named Rookie of the 
Year before moving on to the Rochester Raging Rhinos. In 2006, the club 
failed to reach the playoffs, but in 2007, the Islanders won the USL Second 
Division Championship, defeating the Richmond Kickers on penalty kicks. 
The City Islanders qualified for the playoffs in 2008 and 2009 but were 
unable to duplicate their championship form. Danny Cepero played for Harrisburg 
on loan from the New York Red Bulls in 2008, and upon returning to New 
York, became the first goalkeeper in Major League Soccer history to score 
from open play. In 2009, Ty Shipalane became the second City Islander to 
win Rookie of the Year and became the first City Islander to jump directly 
to Major League Soccer after signing with D.C. United at the conclusion 
of the season. After missing the playoffs for just the second time in franchise 
history in 2010, Harrisburg won the USL Pro National Division title to 
again advance to the USL Pro final, falling to the regular-season champion 
Orlando City on penalty kicks. The City Islanders also compete in the Lamar 
Hunt U.S. Open Cup, where they developed a reputation as "giant killers" 
for defeating several teams from Major League Soccer. Harrisburg boasts 
an overall record of 12–5–3 in the competition, including a perfect 5–0 
mark against teams from the Premier Development League and 4–4–1 record 
against MLS clubs. The City Islanders first competed in the Lamar Hunt 
U.S. Open Cup in 2007, defeating two amateur squads before upsetting D.C. 
United 1–0 to reach the quarterfinals. They subsequently lost to the New 
England Revolution 1–2, but in 2009 exacted revenge by beating the Revolution 
2–1 before losing to D.C. United 1–2 in the quarterfinals. The City Islanders 
repeated the feat in 2010, knocking off Major League Soccer's New York 
Red Bulls 1–0 in the round of 16 and claiming a cash prize for advancing 
furthest of any USL-PRO team in the tournament. The City Islanders again 
dispatched the New England Revolution in the 2012 edition of the U.S. Open 
Cup, prevailing on penalty kicks after a 3–3 draw in the round of 32. Harrisburg 
next defeated the Red Bulls 3–1 to advance to the quarterfinals, where 
they lost to the Philadelphia Union by a 5–2 scoreline. In 2012, the City 
Islanders again won the cash prize for advancing further than any USL-PRO 
team in the tournament by virtue of a tie-breaker. The City Islanders have 
hosted several exhibition matches, or friendlies, against international 
and top-flight competition. A partnership with D.C. United of Major League 
Soccer created the "Clash of the Capitals," annual matches between the 
two capital cities held in 2005–06. In the inaugural edition of the competition 
in 2005, D.C. United won 1–0 in front of over 4,000 fans at the Skyline 
Sports Complex. The following year's matchup was staged at Cumberland Valley 
High School, where 5,133 fans turned out to witness Freddy Adu and United 
prevail 2–1. That same year included the City Islanders' first international 
exhibition, as the club defeated Jamaica's Village United F.C. 5–1 at Hersheypark 
Stadium. In 2009, the City Islanders played Crystal Palace F.C. of the 
Football League Championship, England's second division, at Lancaster's 
Clipper Magazine Stadium. A crowd of 5,099 witnessed the match, a 3–1 Crystal 
Palace win that included goals by Palace stars Darren Ambrose, Neil Danns, 
and Freddie Sears. Brandon Swartzendruber scored the lone goal for the 
City Islanders. As part of their affiliation, the City Islanders host annual 
friendly matches against the Philadelphia Union of Major League Soccer. 
As of the 2014 season, the Islanders have only won one match against their 
top flight affiliate. In 2010, the teams played to a 1–1 draw, with Danny 
Mwanga giving the Union a lead in the 30th minute before an own goal allowed 
Harrisburg to equalize a minute later. J.T. Noone appeared for both clubs 
in the match, playing the first half for the City Islanders before switching 
jerseys and completing the second half for Philadelphia. The Union prevailed 
in the 2011 edition by a 5–3 scoreline.[3] The City Islanders carried a 
2–0 lead into halftime behind goals by Nelson Becerra and Andrew Welker, 
but heavy substitutions allowed the Union to demonstrate their superior 
depth, and they scored five times in thirty minutes before Jose Angulo 
pegged one back. With both teams fielding numerous reserves, the City Islanders 
won the 2012 rematch, which was played at Hersheypark Stadium. Jorge Perlaza 
and Kai Herdling scored for the Union, while a brace by Garret Pettis and 
goal by Yann Ekra carried the USL-PRO outfit to the 3–2 victory.[4] With 
the affiliation dissolving during the 2015 season, the final friendly between 
the two teams as affiliates took place in Lancaster, Pennsylvania in front 
of a record crowd of 6,546 attendees. The Union won the match 3–1. The 
table below summarizes the results of the annual contests between the Islanders 
and Union. The team's colors are tropical blue, navy blue, and white. The 
logo can also be adorned with a gold star above it, representing the USL 
Championship the team won in 2007. The Harrisburg City Islanders compete 
at FNB Field on City Island in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. The stadium has 
a capacity of 6,187 spectators. The City Islanders also compete at Clipper 
Magazine Stadium in Lancaster, Pennsylvania which serves as an alternate 
home ground during the 2016 season.[5] As of 2015, the parent company of 
the Harrisburg City Islanders, the Harrisburg Capital Soccer, Inc. have 
begun applying for grant funding to facilitate upgrades to the existing 
complex. The proposed upgrades are anticipated to include increasing capacity 
to 5,000 seats, dedicated VIP areas, entrance plaza, upgraded concessions, 
restrooms, indoor locker rooms, state-of-the-art broadcasting booth, and 
a new scoreboard. New seating is intended to be an upgrade from existing 
bleachers with a mix of individual bucket seats, ten luxury suites, a VIP 
deck with seating, and bleacher seats with back supports.[6] The 2016 season 
marks the City Islanders transition from Skyline Sports Complex to FNB 
Field on City Island in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. The transition was a 
result of the collaboration with the current tenants, the Harrisburg Senators, 
and to keep pace with the standards being implemented by the USL.[5] The 
team will also share home matches with Clipper Magazine Stadium in Lancaster, 
Pennsylvania as an effort to expand the Islanders fanbase throughout south 
central Pennsylvania.[5] The Harrisburg City Islanders have two of their 
own supporters groups, the City Island Hecklers (CI Hecklers) founded by 
"Them Hecklerz", and the Sons of the Susquehanna (SOS) founded by Jason 
Henry-Linn. The CI Hecklers often position themselves behind one goal, 
while the Sons of the Susquehanna position themselves behind the other 
goal.[7][8][9] In addition to these two, members of the Sons of Ben (supporters 
of the Philadelphia Union) also provide support. Most City Islanders home 
matches are broadcast live on Invica, with tape delay feeds on ABC 27 Weather 
Channel, Comcast channel 245 and Verizon Fios channel 462. Additionally, 
many road games are broadcast through USLLive. Michael Bullock covers the 
team for the Patriot-News, while Derek Meluzio provides commentary and 
videos from his Upper 90 blog. The column Confessions of a Soccer Nobody 
appears regularly in the Sports 'Burger, offering additional coverage and 
insight. As of the 2014 season, USL began regularly broadcasting all league 
matches on the USL YouTube channel. Home match broadcasting is provided 
live by Inivca where Play-by-play announcing covered by Chad Edwards with 
color commentary by Larry Julius. Updated as of July 19, 2016.[10] Referenced 
from HCI coaching staff[10] and front office.[11] 1Bill Becher appointed 
General Manager in February 2016.[12] Head coach Bill Becher has managed 
the club since its founding in 2003. Games played include all League, Cup, 
and playoff contests, and the win percentage is calculated from the total 
of games. The following detail individual achievements earn by City Islander 
players over the club's history.[13] Referenced from Harrisburg City Islanders 
club history.[13] Although they had been rivals and competed against each 
other in previous seasons, the inaugural Keystone Derby was officially 
contested between the City Islanders and the Pittsburgh Riverhounds in 
2015. Pittsburgh went on to win the cup in the first edition of the tournament 
in a series that saw 28 goals through 4 matches. The City Islanders would 
