Harry I. Dalton (August 23, 1928 – October 23, 2005) was an American front-office 
executive in Major League Baseball. He served as general manager of three 
American League teams, the Baltimore Orioles (1966–71), California Angels 
(1972–77) and Milwaukee Brewers (1978–91), and was a principal architect 
of the Orioles' dynasty of 1966–74 as well as the only AL championship 
the Brewers ever won (1982). Born in West Springfield, Massachusetts—the 
same hometown of Baseball Hall of Fame manager Leo Durocher—Dalton graduated 
from Amherst College and served in the United States Air Force during the 
Korean War, earning a Bronze Star. After a brief stint as a sportswriter 
in Springfield, he joined the front office of the Orioles—newly reborn 
as the relocated St. Louis Browns—in 1954. For the next 11 years, Dalton 
worked his way up the organizational ladder, rising to the position of 
director of the Orioles' successful farm system. In the autumn of 1965, 
Baltimore general manager Lee MacPhail departed to become top aide to the 
new Commissioner of Baseball, William Eckert. Dalton was named Director 
of Player Personnel—in effect, MacPhail's successor. His first order of 
business was to complete a trade that brought Cincinnati Reds outfielder 
Frank Robinson to Baltimore for pitchers Milt Pappas and Jack Baldschun 
and a minor league outfielder. Robinson, 1961 National League Most Valuable 
Player, was one of the greatest stars in the game, but he had developed 
a strained relationship with the Cincinnati front office. In Baltimore, 
he would team with third baseman Brooks Robinson to lead the O's to the 
1966 and 1970 World Series championships, and pennants in 1969 and 1971. 
Dalton was the man who hired Earl Weaver as manager, brought to the Majors 
young stars such as Bobby Grich and Don Baylor, and acquired key players 
such as Mike Cuellar, Pat Dobson and Don Buford. (Weaver, Frank Robinson 
and Brooks Robinson, along with pitching great Jim Palmer, a product of 
Dalton's farm system, are all in the Hall in Fame.) After the Orioles lost 
the 1971 World Series to the Pittsburgh Pirates, Dalton was hired to turn 
around a stumbling Angels franchise. He acquired the great pitcher Nolan 
Ryan in a December 1971 trade with the New York Mets, but during Dalton's 
six seasons in Anaheim the team never posted a winning record. After the 
1977 season, the Angels hired veteran executive Buzzie Bavasi as Dalton's 
boss, then released Dalton from his contract so that he could become the 
general manager of the Brewers. Milwaukee had a group of talented young 
players, such as Robin Yount, Cecil Cooper and rookie Paul Molitor, but 
the eight-year-old Brewers had never had a winning season. In 1978, Dalton 
hired George Bamberger, Weaver's pitching coach for many years, as the 
Brewers' new manager, and the team gelled into contenders in the American 
League East Division. By 1981, they made the playoffs and in 1982, Milwaukee 
won its first and only American League pennant (the Brewers moved to the 
National League Central Division in 1998). In the 1982 World Series, the 
"Harvey's Wallbangers" Brewers of manager Harvey Kuenn lost to the St. 
Louis Cardinals in seven games. The Brewers contended in 1983, but then 
began to struggle on the field. The team rebounded in 1987 and 1988, but 
when it returned to its losing ways, Dalton's position was weakened. After 
a poor 1991 season, he was replaced as general manager by Sal Bando. Dalton, 
who remained a consultant in the Milwaukee front office through his 1994 
retirement, nevertheless was one of the most respected men in baseball, 
who had trained other successful general managers such as John Schuerholz, 
Lou Gorman and Dan Duquette, a fellow Amherst alumnus. On July 24, 2003, 
Dalton was inducted into the Milwaukee Brewers Walk of Fame outside Miller 
Park. Harry Dalton died at age 77 in Scottsdale, Arizona of complications 
