The Harrisburg Senators are a minor league baseball team based in Harrisburg, 
Pennsylvania. The team, which plays in the Eastern League, is the Double-A 
affiliate of the Washington Nationals. The Senators play in FNB Field, 
located on City Island in Harrisburg. The stadium originally opened in 
1987 as Riverside Stadium, but has since been renamed and renovated. It 
presently has a seating capacity of 6,187 fans. The "Senators" nickname 
refers to the host city being the capital and thus home of the Pennsylvania 
legislature. The team colors are red, navy blue, and gold, the same colors 
of the parent club, the Washington Nationals. The city of Harrisburg has 
won nine Eastern League titles and is the first team in league history 
to win four titles in a row: 1987, 1993, and 1996–99, while an earlier 
Senators team won league titles in 1927, 1928 and 1931. The city of Harrisburg 
has a long history of professional baseball. In 1901, the first baseball 
club in Harrisburg was created. In 1912, Harrisburg won the first of three 
Tri-State Association championships in a row. In 1915, an affilitated International 
League team moved from Newark, New Jersey, to Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. 
The club lasted one year before moving to the New York State League and 
disbanding. This left the city without professional baseball for seven 
years. In 1924, an incarnation of the Senators joined the newly formed 
New York–Penn League which was eventually renamed the Eastern League. Initially, 
the Senators and most of the other New York–Penn League teams were not 
affiliated with a Major League Baseball team. In 1927, the Senators started 
a five-year campaign with three Eastern league championships, winning titles 
in 1927, 1928, and 1931. The Senators' reign ended in 1936, when flood 
waters from the surrounding Susquehanna River ruined their home ballpark, 
Island Field. Another team representing Harrisburg affiliated with the 
Pittsburgh Pirates formed four years later, though in the smaller Interstate 
League. Like the Senators before it, the team gained success quickly, winning 
the league title one year later. The success, however, was short lived, 
as the team moved to nearby York in 1943. Another team affiliated with 
the Cleveland Indians was created, but was not as successful. The Interstate 
League disbanded this Harrisburg team in 1952, and any form of professional 
baseball was not played in the city for the next 35 years. The modern Harrisburg 
Senators origin come from the New England states.[1] First established 
in 1976 as an affiliate of the Milwaukee Brewers, the Berkshire Brewers 
played one season in Pittsfield, Massachusetts. After that season, they 
moved to Holyoke, Massachusetts where they took the nickname the Millers. 
In 1981, the franchise changed affiliations, moving from the Brewers to 
the California Angels. After the 1982 season, the team relocated to Nashua, 
New Hampshire as the Nashua Angels. After the 1983 season, the team's affiliation 
changed again, this time to the Pittsburgh Pirates. The team changed its 
name then to the Nashua Pirates. At the same time, during the mid-1980s, 
Harrisburg Mayor Stephen Reed initiated a revitalization plan that included 
a ballpark for a new Minor League Baseball team in the city. This ballpark, 
named Riverside Stadium attracted the Pittsburgh Pirates, which moved the 
Nashua Pirates to Harrisburg. The team was renamed the Harrisburg Senators, 
in a nod to the old Senators franchise. Like the original Senators, success 
was quick, winning the Eastern League championship in its very first season. 
In 1991, affiliation shifted from the Pittsburgh Pirates to the Montreal 
Expos, an affiliation continuing through that team's move to Washington, 
D.C. The first several years of affiliation with Montreal brought consecutive 
championships from 1996 to 1998. In 1999, the Senators played the Norwich 
Navigators for a shot at their record-setting fourth consecutive Eastern 
League Championship. In the bottom of the ninth inning of game 5, the Senators 
trailed by 3 runs, but with 2 outs, the bases loaded, and a full count 
Milton Bradley hit a walk-off grand slam to right center field to win the 
fourth straight championship for the Senators, an Eastern League first.[2] 
In 2003, Sueng Song pitched the first no-hitter in modern Senators history. 
Senators former logo, 1987–2005 Senators primary, 2006–2012 Senators primary, 
2013–present The official colors of the Harrisburg Senators are red, navy 
blue and metallic gold. The home and away uniforms resemble those of the 
Washington Nationals, with a red cap for home games and navy blue for away. 
Both caps include the "H" and streaking baseball logo, with the "H" in 
the same script as the Nationals' pretzel-shaped "W." The white home jerseys 
include red and navy blue trim around the collar and sleeves with the "Senators" 
wordmark in red with metallic gold bevels and navy blue outline. The grey 
away jersey has navy blue and red trim around the collar and sleeves, with 
the "Harrisburg" wordmark in navy blue with metallic gold bevels and red 
outline. Both wordmarks are identical to the Nationals brand. In 2007, 
the Senators added a unique logo to their brand, incorporating the prevalent 
and much reviled mayfly into the "H." Because of FNB Field's location on 
City Island in the Susquehanna River, thousands of mayflies are attracted 
to the ballpark's bright lights and die. The dead mayflies fall onto the 
fans below, obscuring their view. The city of Harrisburg paid $6.7 million 
in 1995 to acquire the team from the previous owners of the franchise, 
who were planning to move the team to a new taxpayer-financed ballpark 
in Springfield, Massachusetts.[3] Instead of appeasing the desires of the 
ownership group with a new stadium, Harrisburg Mayor Stephen Reed led the 
city of Harrisburg to purchase the team instead. The previous owners had 
bought the team only six months earlier for just $4.1 million. Citing the 
ballpark as the major link in his downtown revitalization project, when 
asked how he could afford the hefty price tag, Mayor Reed responded by 
asking, "how could we not?" For a time, the Senators remained one of the 
only sports franchises in the United States to be completely owned by the 
community it is based in. In 2006, the city put the team up for sale to 
combat a major budget deficit. Mayor Reed stipulated that the new owner 
must keep the team in Harrisburg for at least 29 years.[3] The team was 
eventually bought by Senators Partners, LLC of Northbrook, Illinois, headed 
by Jerry Reinsdorf's son Michael, for an Eastern League record $13.25 Million. 
In mid-2005, Peter Angelos, the owner of the Baltimore Orioles, gained 
the permission of the AA Eastern League and the AAA International League 
to move Baltimore's AAA affiliate from Ottawa, Canada to Harrisburg.[4] 
One of the hangups with the agreement was that a buyer for the AA Senators 
franchise had to be found. The Ottawa franchise moved to Allentown, Pennsylvania 
as the AAA team for the Philadelphia Phillies, renamed as the Lehigh Valley 
IronPigs.[4] The Baltimore Orioles also signed a player development deal 
with the Norfolk Tides of the International League. The Tides will now 
be the AAA affiliate of the Orioles. With all links to the next level of 
baseball ended, with two AAA teams now in eastern Pennsylvania, and the 
nearby cities of Lancaster and York gaining independent franchises, the 
future of AAA ball in Harrisburg is doubtful.[4] FNB Field received a much-awaited, 
$32 million renovation ($19.1 million in state funding), in two stages. 
Originally the renovation was to begin in 2005, however delays in state 
funding for the project were postponed until 2008, meaning the improvements 
were not implemented for Senators fans until the 2009 season at the earliest, 
and the 2nd stage was completed before the 2010 season. Every Harrisburg 
Senators ballgame is aired on 1460 the Ticket (AM 1460 WTKT – Clear Channel). 
Terry Byrom has been the voice of the Senators since 2005.[5] The games 
are also streamed on the team's website, senatorsbaseball.com. Some games 
are also aired on the local TV station, Comcast Network, and occasionally 
has games aired on MASN. Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager 
Coaches 7-day disabled list * On Washington Nationals 40-man roster # Rehab 
assignment ∞ Reserve list ‡ Restricted list § Suspended list † Temporary 
inactive list Roster updated September 4, 2016 Transactions → More MiLB 
rosters → Washington Nationals minor league players The players listed 
below had played for the Senators at one point or another before going 
on to the Major Leagues.[6] This is a partial list of the last five seasons 
completed by the Senators. For the full season-by-season history, see List 
of Harrisburg Senators seasons – in GB is behind, + in GB is ahead Bold 
