Harold Norbert Kalas (March 26, 1936 – April 13, 2009) was an American 
sportscaster, best known for his Ford C. Frick Award-winning role as lead 
play-by-play announcer for Major League Baseball's Philadelphia Phillies, 
a position he held from 1971 until his death in 2009. Kalas was also closely 
identified with the National Football League, serving as a voice-over narrator 
for NFL Films productions (a regular feature on Inside the NFL) and calling 
football games nationally for Westwood One radio. Kalas collapsed in the 
Washington Nationals' broadcast booth on April 13, 2009, about an hour 
before a Phillies game was scheduled to begin against the Nationals, and 
died soon afterward. Born in Chicago, Illinois, Kalas graduated from Naperville 
High School in 1954 and from the University of Iowa in 1959 where he was 
a member of Phi Delta Theta Fraternity. Upon graduation, he was immediately 
drafted into the United States Army and stationed in Hawaii. After his 
discharge in 1961, Kalas began calling minor-league baseball games for 
the Hawaii Islanders. Kalas had three sons: Todd, Brad, and Kane. Todd 
Kalas was a Phillies broadcaster, worked as a pregame/postgame–show host, 
and is currently an in-game analyst for the Tampa Bay Rays. Kalas made 
his major-league debut in 1965 with the Houston Astros, replacing Al Helfer 
and working alongside Gene Elston and Loel Passe.[1][2] He called the first 
game at Houston's Astrodome, on April 12, 1965.[3] He was hired by the 
Phillies in 1971 to succeed Bill Campbell, and was the master of ceremonies 
at the 1971 opening of Veterans Stadium. After the retirement of By Saam, 
Kalas was paired with Andy Musser and Hall of Fame player Richie Ashburn. 
While initially meeting with a lukewarm reception due to his replacement 
of the popular Campbell, Kalas soon won the hearts of Phillies fans with 
his easy-going style, his mellow, baritone, leathery voice (which rose 
to great excitement upon great plays on the field or Phillies' home runs, 
especially in key situations), his love of the game and also his accessibility 
to Phillies fans, for whom he professed a strong love. During his Phillies 
career, he called six no-hit games, six National League Championship Series, 
and three World Series (1983, 1993, and 2008). However, due to MLB rules 
at the time, he could not call the 1980 World Series, as local broadcasters 
were not allowed to call games due to contract conflicts with MLB, NBC 
and CBS Radio. Public outcry caused MLB to change its policies the following 
year. Kalas also called the first game at Veterans Stadium (April 10, 1971), 
the last game at Veterans Stadium (September 28, 2003), and the first game 
at Citizens Bank Park (April 12, 2004).[3] Kalas was sidelined for a few 
days in late July 2008 to treat a detached retina. On April 8, 2009, the 
Phillies honored Kalas by having him throw out the first pitch before a 
game against the Atlanta Braves. Kalas's pitch was part of the pre-game 
ceremony in which the Phillies received their 2008 World Series championship 
rings.[4] The ceremony would be part of Kalas's last home game. On May 
15, 2009, during a series in Washington, the Phillies visited the White 
House and were congratulated by President Barack Obama for their 2008 World 
Series championship. The visit had been postponed from April 14, due to 
Kalas's death the preceding day. The President mentioned Kalas, his voice, 
his love for the Phillies, and his legacy.[5] This was the second of two 
tributes to Kalas in Washington. On April 21, eight days after Kalas's 
death, then-U.S. Congressman Joe Sestak paid tribute to Kalas in the House 
of Representatives. At the time, Sestak represented Pennsylvania's 7th 
congressional district, where Kalas resided.[6][7] Kalas and Ashburn became 
beloved figures in Philadelphia, and also became best friends. They worked 
together for 27 seasons until Ashburn's death on September 9, 1997 of a 
heart attack in his sleep in a New York City hotel room after broadcasting 
a Phillies/Mets game at Shea Stadium. It is believed by many that Kalas 
never got over the death of his partner and friend, openly stating more 
than 11 years afterward that he still grieved over Ashburn's death.[8] 
Kalas' familiar home run call was "Swing ... and a long drive, this ball 
is ... outta here! Home run <insert player's name here>." If it was a gigantic 
home run, he sometimes inserted "deep (section of outfield)" after "and 
a long drive" and described it as "that ball's way outta here!" As a guest 
on ESPN's Sunday Night Baseball on July 15, 2007, Kalas recounted that 
his famous "outta here" call originated in the mid-1970s. While standing 
around the batting cage during batting practice, he saw Phillies slugger 
Greg Luzinski hit a ball into the upper deck, to which Philly shortstop 
Larry Bowa reacted with the words, "Wow! That's way outta here." Kalas 
said that it had a nice "unique ring to it and has been using it ever since". 
Other broadcasters have used Kalas' "outta here" call, including Gary Cohen 
of the New York Mets, Jerry Coleman of the San Diego Padres, and Terry 
Smith of the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. Kalas made, arguably, his most 
memorable call on April 18, 1987, when Mike Schmidt hit his 500th career 
home run.[9] Swing and a long drive, there it is, number 500! The career 
500th home run for Michael Jack Schmidt! In 1980, after the Phillies won 
the World Series, Kalas and the rest of the Phillies' radio crew re-created 
the call that Kalas probably would have made when Tug McGraw struck out 
Willie Wilson to win Game 6 and the World Series between the Phillies and 
the Kansas City Royals. 65,000 plus on their feet here at Veterans Stadium. 
The Tugger needs one more ... Swing and a miss! Yes, he struck him out! 
Yes, they did it! The Phillies are world champions! World champions of 
baseball! It's pandemonium at Veterans Stadium! All of the fans are on 
their feet. This city has come together behind a baseball team! ... Phillies 
are world champions! This city knows it! This city loves it! This call 
was not made live by Kalas, as MLB radio-broadcasting regulations at the 
time forbade local stations from producing live coverage of World Series 
games, instead forcing them to air the national CBS Radio feed of the games. 
Philadelphia fans were so outraged about this afterward that they started 
a letter-writing campaign to the Commissioner's Office, demanding a change 
to the rule. Due at least in part to this outcry from Philadelphia fans, 
MLB amended its broadcasting contracts the following year to allow World 
Series teams' flagship radio stations to air the games with local announcers.[10] 
Nevertheless, Kalas was part of the Phillies' World Series celebration 
in 1980, and rode in the team's victory parade down Broad Street.[6][11] 
Kalas called a grand slam home run by Mariano Duncan off of Lee Smith in 
1993: It might be, it could be... it is! Outta here! Grandslam! Glandslam! 
Mariano Duncan! Another memorable call by Kalas was his description of 
Mitch Williams's strikeout of Bill Pecota for the final out of Game 6 of 
the 1993 National League Championship Series between the Phillies and Atlanta 
Braves: Swing and a miss! Struck him out! The Phillies are the '93 National 
League Champions!!! Another of Kalas' famous calls came less than two weeks 
later with Joe Carter's famous walk-off home run to end the World Series, 
though the Phillies lost the series: The 2–2 pitch, line drive in deep 
left, this ball is outta here. Three-run home run, Joe Carter, and the 
Toronto Blue Jays are the world champions of baseball for the second straight 
year. A three-run home run in the bottom of the ninth by Joe Carter who's 
being mobbed at home plate. On April 4, 2003, Kalas called a grand slam 
by Chase Utley in Utley's major-league debut: Long drive...could it be...it 
is...OUTTA HERE! Grand slam home run - welcome to "The Show," Mr. Utley! 
On June 14, 2004, Kalas called the 400th home run hit by Jim Thome, using 
the call he used in later years when it was uncertain whether the ball 
would clear the fence: Could it be...could it be...it...is...OUTTA HERE! 
Number 400 for Jim Thome! On September 8, 2005, Kalas calls an eventual 
game winning 3 run home run by Craig Biggio in top of the 9th off of Billy 
Wagner. Oh no. You got to be kidding me. You've got to be kidding me. A 
three-run home run Craig Biggio. All the runs are unearned, but who cares. 
On August 9, 2006, Kalas called a close play at the plate as Chase Utley 
scored from second base on a routine groundout against the Atlanta Braves: 
Chase is going to keep going and he's safe at home plate! Chase Utley, 
you...ARE...the...man! Here is Kalas's call of Brett Myers' strikeout of 
Washington's Wily Mo Pena to clinch the 2007 National League East division 
title for the Phillies on the last day of the season, completing a comeback 
as they erased a seven-game deficit behind the New York Mets in early September: 
Myers ... has the sign from Chris Coste ... curveball, struck him out! 
The Phillies are National League East champions! Look at the scene on the 
field! Look at the scene on the stands! This is incredible! The Phillies 
are the National League East champions and will go to the postseason for 
the first time since 1993! Wow! Kalas' call on the Phillies' victory in 
Game 5 of the 2008 NLCS: The 3–2 pitch ... Swing, and a pop-up, this game 
is gonna be over ... Carlos Ruiz squeezes it, and the Phillies are the 
National League champions! The Phils move on to the World Series! On October 
29, 2008, Kalas was finally able to call a Phillies' championship-winning 
moment in the World Series when Brad Lidge struck out Eric Hinske to win 
the 104th Fall Classic 1: One strike away; nothing-and-two, the count to 
Hinske. Fans on their feet; rally towels are being waved. Brad Lidge stretches. 
The 0-2 pitch — swing and a miss, struck him out! The Philadelphia Phillies 
are 2008 World Champions of baseball! Brad Lidge does it again, and stays 
perfect for the 2008 season! 48-for-48 in save opportunities, and let the 
city celebrate! Don't let the 48-hour wait diminish the euphoria of this 
moment, and the celebration. And it has been 28 years since the Phillies 
have enjoyed a World Championship; 25 years in this city that a team that 
has enjoyed a World Championship, and the fans are ready to celebrate. 
What a night! Kalas made his final call on April 12, 2009, during the Phillies 
game against the Colorado Rockies: Bouncing ball to Chase Utley, this should 
be the game, Chase throws him out and that will be it as the Phils win 
2 out of 3 here at Coors Field, coming back to take this one by a score 
of 7 to 5. Kalas was known for his love of the Frank Sinatra song, "High 
Hopes", a melody he sang at numerous events, including the Phillies' championship 
celebrations in his later years. His most famous singing of "High Hopes" 
came in 1993 when he sang to the team after they clinched the NL East division 
title. On April 17, 2009, at the first home game after Kalas's death, fans 
sang along with a video of Harry singing "High Hopes" during the seventh-inning 
stretch, instead of the traditional "Take Me Out to the Ball Game". Kalas 
had sung "Take Me Out To The Ball Game" on several occasions during the 
seventh-inning stretch at Wrigley Field in Chicago on several occasions 
in tribute to Harry Caray, the late voice of the Chicago Cubs, who had 
led fans in that song at most home games. However, by that time, Kalas, 
a native of the Chicago area, had become an openly-avid Phillies fan, and 
held the microphone out to the audience to hear them sing "the Cubbies" 
as they replaced their team's name for "the home team" in the song's lyrics. 
Kalas, due to his stay in Hawaii, was very proficient at pronouncing Polynesian 
names. He also liked to slowly enunciate certain players' names, especially 
those with ethnic names. His personal favorite, Mickey Morandini, was pronounced 
as "Mi-ckey Mor-an-DI-ni".[12] Kalas attributed his leathery voice to his 
habit of smoking Parliament cigarettes, and some of the Phillies players 
lit up Parliaments after Kalas' death as a tribute.[13] Kalas joined NFL 
Films as a narrator in 1975. He became its primary voice, following the 
passing of John Facenda in 1984. He provided the narration to the highlights 
on Inside the NFL from its inception in 1976 through the 2008 season.[14] 
Following Kalas' death, fellow Philadelphia Phillies announcer Scott Graham 
took over his Inside the NFL duties. In addition to his work with the Phillies 
and NFL Films, Kalas called various sports over the years for the Mutual 
Broadcasting System, CBS Radio, and Westwood One Radio (including the NFL, 
MLB, college basketball, and Notre Dame football). Kalas joined Dennis 
Green to call the 1985 Aloha Bowl between Alabama and USC.[15] For many 
years, he narrated the "Alcoa Fantastic Finishes" in-game highlights spots, 
for use during NFL telecasts. His voice was used for narration of the PBS 
39 documentary on the Lehigh-Lafayette Rivalry Football Game, produced 
in 2004. Kalas also lent his voice to NFL Network's game telecasts, reading 
sponsor plugs during commercial breaks. He was replaced by Pat Summerall 
after his death. Kalas also lent his voice to the commercials for the movie 
Leatherheads, as well as commercials for the Campbell Soup Company (including 
Campbell's Chunky Soup), GMC Truck, Sega Genesis Sports Games, Coors Light, 
and others. Kalas provided the recorded voice-over for much of the self-guided 
tours at the United States Mint in Philadelphia and the Gateway Arch in 
St. Louis. He also narrated/commentated Animal Planet's Puppy Bowls I-V 
from 2005–2009.[16] Puppy Bowl VI was dedicated in his memory.[17] He also 
made an appearance on the song "Rain Delay" by the Philadelphia-based rock 
group Marah. Kalas died of heart disease on Monday, April 13, 2009, in 
Washington, D.C.[18] He had collapsed in the Nationals Park press box at 
approximately 12:30 pm, several hours before the Washington Nationals' 
home opener against the Phillies. Kalas was rushed to George Washington 
University Hospital, where he was pronounced dead at 1:20 pm EDT. "We lost 
Harry [today]," David Montgomery, the team president, said. "We lost our 
voice." Before the game began, Kalas's death was announced to the crowd, 
his picture was displayed on the scoreboard, and the stadium observed a 
minute of silence. The Phillies went on to win the game, 9–8. The Phillies 
saluted Kalas by placing a picture of him in their dugout during the game. 
Center fielder Shane Victorino also saluted Kalas after hitting a solo 
home run by pointing up to the press box where Kalas would have called 
the game.[19] Phillies fans created a makeshift memorial at the Mike Schmidt 
statue outside of Citizens Bank Park (at the Third Base Gate) shortly after 
Kalas's death was announced. Kalas suffered from atherosclerosis and hypertension 
in his later years,[20] but those illnesses did not seem to affect his 
announcing abilities; he had called the Phillies/Rockies game in Denver 
on April 12, the day before his death.[21] Kalas was in his 39th season 
with the Phillies. Though the Phillies were scheduled to visit the White 
House on April 14 to celebrate their 2008 World Series championship, the 
visit was postponed so that the day could be set aside to remember Kalas. 
Their White House visit was pushed back to May 15, coinciding with the 
Phillies' next scheduled visit to town to play the Nationals. On Friday, 
April 17, 2009, Kalas's three children, Todd (himself a former Phillies 
broadcaster), Brad, and Kane, threw out the ceremonial first pitches before 
the Phillies first home game after Kalas' death at Citizens Bank Park to 
Mike Schmidt, John Kruk, and Jimmy Rollins, representatives of the three 
decades of Phillies baseball with Kalas. Following a moment of silence, 
Kane sang the national anthem.[22] The next day, Kalas became the fourth 
person to be given the honor of having their body lie in repose inside 
a major-league baseball stadium — after Babe Ruth, Jack Buck, and Miller 
Huggins — when his casket was displayed behind home plate and fans were 
encouraged to pay their respects at Citizens Bank Park. Kalas's casket 
was passed along by friends, broadcast partners, and every player on the 
Phillies team roster, before it was placed in a hearse which carried him 
out of Citizens Bank Park one final time. After leaving the ballpark, Kalas' 
body was laid to rest in a private service at Philadelphia's historic Laurel 
Hill Cemetery. His gravesite is situated on a scenic bluff above the Schuylkill 
River, overlooking the city he so loved. In August 2009, two pairs of seats 
from Veterans Stadium were installed at his graveside, one pair on each 
side, facing each other at a 45° angle. In the summer of 2010, a headstone 
was added to the grave, and the fan-made plywood "P" was removed as was 
the bronze plaque with his likeness. The headstone consists of a granite 
microphone with the letters "HK" in the middle and a likeness of Kalas' 
autograph (which includes the "HOF 2002" that Kalas added to his autographs 
after his receipt of the Ford C. Frick Award) at the microphone's base, 
and that sits on top of a raised base shaped like a home plate. Engraved 
in the base are the following words: On September 29, 2010, Kalas's grave 
was resurfaced with sod that originally came from Citizens Bank Park, which 
was previously removed for the 2009 season when that stadium was re-sodded. 
The sod had been preserved in live condition for sale to fans at a southern 
New Jersey sod farm that deals in sod for sports arenas. That farm donated 
a portion of the former Citizens Bank Park sod when a fan, who volunteers 
at Laurel Hill Cemetery, contacted that farm regarding using that sod on 
Kalas's grave in Kalas's memory, as Kalas himself had walked on that sod, 
and had called the 2008 World Series victory which had come on that very 
grass.[23] During the winter of 2011-2012, a baseball quote by A. Bartlett 
Giamatti was added to the top of the home plate-shaped plinth of the tombstone. 
It reads, Baseball is about going home, and how hard it is to get there 
and how driven is our need. It tells us how good home is. Its wisdom says 
you can go home again but you cannot stay. The journey must start once 
more, the bat an oar over the shoulder, until there is an end to all journeying. 
Nicknamed "Harry the K" by Phillies pitcher Larry Christenson in the mid-1970s, 
a nickname quickly adopted by Phillies fans, Kalas received the Ford C. 
Frick Award from the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 2002. In 2004, he 
was named Person of the Year by the Broadcast Pioneers of Philadelphia. 
That year, he was also inducted into the Philadelphia Sports Hall of Fame, 
as a member of the charter class (21 members). He was named Pennsylvania 
Sportscaster of the Year 18 times.[3] Kalas also helped announce the ceremonial 
closing of Veterans Stadium on September 28, 2003, and was the master of 
ceremonies at the ceremonial opening of Citizens Bank Park in 2004. At 
Citizens Bank Park, the restaurant built into the base of the main scoreboard 
is named "Harry the K's" in Kalas's honor. After Kalas's death, the Phillies' 
TV-broadcast booth was renamed "The Harry Kalas Broadcast Booth". It is 
directly next to the radio-broadcast booth, which is named "The Richie 
'Whitey' Ashburn Broadcast Booth". When Kalas died on April 13, 2009, fans 
created an impromptu memorial tribute to him at the base of the statue 
of Mike Schmidt at the Third Base Gate of Citizens Bank Park. The Phillies 
honored Kalas for the remainder of the 2009 season with a round, black 
"HK" patch over the heart on all player, coach, and manager jerseys. Additionally, 
a billboard featuring a microphone, his initials and lifespan ("HK 1936–2009") 
was displayed on the wall in left-center field during the 2009 season. 
Immediately after the Phillies clinched the National League Eastern Division, 
the players all went to the billboard, lit cigars and poured beer and champagne 
on the billboard as a symbolic way of including Kalas in the celebration, 
as Kalas had participated in all of the Phillies' victory celebrations 
during his tenure in Philadelphia, including both World Series wins, having 
ridden in both of the Phillies World Series parades.[6][11] The Phillies 
players, led by Shane Victorino, hung Kalas' signature baby-blue blazer 
and white loafers in the dugout for every game. Following Kalas' death, 
the Phillies began playing a video of Kalas singing the first verse of 
"High Hopes" at Citizens Bank Park after every Phillies win, as well as 
playing Kalas's famous "This ball is outta here!" call at Citizens Bank 
Park after every Phillies home run. The Broadcast Pioneers of Philadelphia 
inducted Kalas into their Hall of fame in 2000 and named him their Person 
of the Year in 2004. In 2009, Kalas was that year's inductee into the Philadelphia 
Baseball Wall of Fame. In June 2009, the National Radio Hall of Fame announced 
that Kalas would be posthumously inducted into its Hall of Fame. Thirteen 
other sportscasters were previously inducted into the Hall of Fame.[24] 
Phillies fan Antonio Jose initiated an online petition seeking support 
for a statue of Kalas to be erected outside the Phillies' ballpark. As 
of May 2010, there were 24,000 signatories. Sculptor Lawrence Nowlan designed 
a model for the statue.[25] In September 2010, a story that aired on the 
10 Show on WCAU-TV stated that the full-size clay model for the statue 
was nearly complete, and was ready to have a mold of it cast so the actual 
bronze statue can be cast.[26] On Tuesday, August 16, 2011, the Nowlan 
sculpture, a 7-foot-tall (210 cm) bronze statue (which depicts Kalas standing 
cross-legged on a home plate, holding a microphone in his right hand, which 
also holds a baseball bat that he was leaning upon) was unveiled in the 
Ashburn Alley outfield concourse at Citizens Bank Park between Harry the 
K's Restaurant and the statue of Richie Ashburn prior to that evening's 
game versus the Arizona Diamondbacks. This unveiling was postponed from 
the previous Sunday, when the statue was scheduled to be unveiled prior 
to the game versus the Washington Nationals, which had been rained out. 
The 2010 Mummers Parade on New Year's Day featured the Happy Tappers Comics 
dressed as Phillies players with the "HK" patch on the Phillies jerseys 
to pay tribute to Kalas and their theme was "Harry K's Field of Dreams."[6] 
