Harry Caray, born Harry Christopher Carabina (March 1, 1914 – February 
18, 1998) was an American sportscaster on radio and television. He covered 
five Major League Baseball teams, beginning with 25 years of calling the 
games of the St. Louis Cardinals with two of these years also spent calling 
games for the St. Louis Browns. After a year working for the Oakland Athletics 
and eleven years with the Chicago White Sox, Caray spent the last sixteen 
years of his career as the announcer for the Chicago Cubs.[1] Caray was 
born Harry Christopher Carabina to an Italian father and Romanian mother 
in St. Louis.[2] He was an infant when his father died. His mother remarried 
with a French-American, but after her death when Caray was eight, he went 
to live with his aunt Doxie at 1909 LaSalle Street in a tough, working-class 
section of St. Louis.[3] As a young man, Caray played baseball at the semi-pro 
level for a short time before auditioning for a radio job at the age of 
19. He then spent a few years learning the trade at radio stations in Joliet, 
Illinois, and Kalamazoo, Michigan. While in Joliet, WCLS station manager 
Bob Holt suggested that Harry change his surname from Carabina (because 
according to Holt, it sounded too awkward on the air) to Caray. Caray did 
play-by-play for the St. Louis Hawks professional basketball team (now 
the Atlanta Hawks) and the University of Missouri football team, and he 
announced three Cotton Bowl games.[4] Caray caught his break when he landed 
the job with the Cardinals in 1945 and, according to several histories 
of the franchise, proved as expert at selling the sponsor's beer as he'd 
been in selling the Cardinals on KMOX. Immediately preceding the Cardinal 
job, Caray announced hockey games for the St. Louis Flyers. Caray co-announced 
with Ralph Bouncer Taylor, former NHL player. On one occasion Taylor temporarily 
ended his retirement when he volunteered to play goalie for the Flyers 
in a regular season game with the team from Minnesota. (Caray and broadcast 
partner Gabby Street also called games for the St. Louis Browns in 1945–1946.) 
Caray was also seen as influential enough that he could affect team personnel 
moves; Cardinals historian Peter Golenbock (in The Spirit of St. Louis: 
A History of the St. Louis Cardinals and Browns) has suggested Caray may 
have had a partial hand in the maneuvering that led to the exit of general 
manager Bing Devine, the man who had assembled the team that won the 1964 
World Series, and of field manager Johnny Keane, whose rumored successor, 
Leo Durocher (the succession didn't pan out), was believed to have been 
supported by Caray for the job. Caray, however, stated in his autobiography 
that he liked Johnny Keane as a manager, and didn't want to be involved 
in Keane's dismissal.[5] As the Cardinals' announcer, Caray broadcast three 
World Series (1964, 1967, and 1968) on NBC. In November 1968 Caray was 
nearly killed after being struck by an automobile while crossing a street 
in St. Louis; he suffered two broken legs in the accident, but recuperated 
in time to return to the broadcast booth for the start of the 1969 season.[6] 
Following the 1969 season, Caray was fired by the Cardinals after having 
called their games for 25 years, his longest tenure with any sports team.[7] 
He spent one season broadcasting for the Athletics, in 1970, before, as 
he often told interviewers, he grew tired of owner Charles O. Finley's 
interference and accepted a job with the Chicago White Sox. (Apparently 
the feeling was mutual; Finley later said "that shit [Caray] pulled in 
St. Louis didn't go over here.") Finley wanted Caray to change his broadcast 
chant of "Holy Cow" to "Holy Mule."[8] However, there were some reports 
that Caray and Finley did, in fact, work well with each other and that 
Caray's strained relationship with the A's came from longtime A's announcer 
Monte Moore; Caray was loose and free-wheeling while Moore was more restrained 
and sedate. Caray joined the Chicago White Sox in 1971 and quickly became 
popular with the South Side faithful and enjoying a reputation for joviality 
and public carousing (sometimes doing home game broadcasts shirtless from 
the bleachers). He wasn't always popular with players, however; Caray had 
an equivalent reputation of being critical of home team blunders.[citation 
needed] During his tenure with the White Sox, Caray was teamed with many 
color analysts who didn't work out well, including Bob Waller, Bill Mercer 
and ex-Major League catcher J. C. Martin, among others. But in 1976, during 
a game against the Texas Rangers, Caray had former outfielder Jimmy Piersall 
(who was working for the Rangers at the time) as a guest in the White Sox 
booth that night. The tandem proved to work so well that Piersall was hired 
to be Caray's partner in the White Sox radio and TV booth beginning in 
1977. Piersall and Caray became very popular. Among Caray's experiences 
during his time with the White Sox was the infamous "Disco Demolition Night" 
promotion. On July 12, 1979, what began as a promotional effort by Chicago 
radio station WLUP, the station's popular DJ Steve Dahl, and the Sox to 
sell seats at a White Sox/Detroit Tigers double-header resulted in a debacle. 
As Dahl blew up a crate full of disco records on the field after the first 
game had ended, thousands of rowdy fans from the sold-out event poured 
from the stands onto the field at Comiskey Park. Caray and Piersall, via 
the public address system, tried to calm the crowd and implored them to 
return to their seats, in vain. Eventually the field was cleared by Chicago 
Police in riot gear and the White Sox were forced to forfeit the second 
game of the double-header due to the extensive damage done to the playing 
field. Caray left the White Sox after the 1981 season, replaced by Don 
Drysdale. However, the popular Caray was soon hired by the crosstown Cubs 
for the 1982 season. Caray increased his renown after joining the North 
Side Cubs following the 1981 season. In contrast to the "SportsVision" 
concept, the Cubs' own television outlet, WGN-TV, had become among the 
first of the cable television superstations, offering their programming 
to providers across the United States for free, and Caray became as famous 
nationwide as he had long been on the South Side and, previously, in St. 
Louis. In fact, Caray had already been affiliated with WGN for some years 
by then, as WGN actually produced the White Sox games for broadcast on 
competitor WSNS-TV, and Caray was a frequent sportscaster on the station's 
newscasts. Caray succeeded longtime Cubs broadcaster Jack Brickhouse, a 
beloved announcer and Chicago media fixture. The timing worked in Caray's 
favor, as the Cubs ended up winning the National League East division title 
in 1984 with WGN-TV's nationwide audience following along. Millions came 
to love the microphone-swinging Caray, continuing his White Sox practice 
of leading the home crowd in singing "Take Me Out to the Ball Game" during 
the seventh inning stretch, mimicking his mannerisms, his gravelly voice, 
his habit of mispronouncing or slurring some players' names — which some 
of the players mimicked in turn — and even his trademark barrel-shaped 
wide-rimmed glasses, prescribed for him by Dr. Cyril Nierman, O.D. In February 
1987 Caray suffered a stroke while at his winter home near Palm Springs, 
California,[9] just prior to spring training for the Cubs' 1987 season. 
This led to his absence from the broadcast booth through most of the first 
two months of the regular season, with WGN featuring a series of celebrity 
guest announcers on game telecasts while Caray recuperated.[10] Caray's 
national popularity never flagged after that, although time eventually 
took a toll on him. Nicknamed "The Mayor of Rush Street", a reference to 
Chicago's famous tavern-dominated neighborhood and Caray's well-known taste 
for Budweiser, illness and age began to drain some of Caray's skills, even 
in spite of his remarkable recovery from the 1987 stroke. There were occasional 
calls for him to retire, but he was kept aboard past WGN's normal mandatory 
retirement age, an indication of how popular he was. Toward the end of 
his career, Caray's schedule was limited to home games and road trips to 
St. Louis and Milwaukee. In December 1997, Caray's grandson Chip Caray 
was hired to share play-by-play duties for WGN's Cubs broadcasts with Caray 
for the following season.[11] However, Harry Caray died in February 1998, 
before the baseball season began, leaving the expected grandfather-grandson 
partnership in the broadcast booth unrealized. Caray's famous seventh-inning 
stretch singing of "Take Me Out to the Ball Game" began during his tenure 
with the White Sox. Team owner Bill Veeck noticed the announcer liked to 
hum the song along with Comiskey Park organist Nancy Faust. Veeck asked 
Caray if he could give him a microphone so he could sing for the entire 
park, but the announcer wanted no part of it. Veeck then proceed to advise 
Caray that he had already taped the announcer singing during commercial 
breaks and said he could play that recording if Caray preferred. Instead, 
Caray agreed to sing it live, accompanied by Faust on the organ, and went 
on to become famous for singing the tune, continuing to do so at Wrigley 
Field after becoming the broadcaster of the Chicago Cubs during the seventh-inning 
stretch, using a hand-held microphone and holding it out outside the booth 
window.[12] Many of these performances began with Caray speaking directly 
to the baseball fans in attendance either about the state of the day's 
game, or the Chicago weather, while the park organ held the opening chord 
of the song. Then with his trademark opening, "All right! Lemme hear ya! 
Ah-One! Ah-Two! Ah-Three!" Harry would launch into his distinctive, down-tempo 
version of "Take Me Out to the Ballgame". During his tenure announcing 
games at Comiskey Park and later Wrigley Field, he would often replace 
"root, root, root for the home team" with "root, root, root for the White 
Sox/Cubbies". For the lyrics "One, Two, Three, strikes you're out ..." 
Harry would usually hold the microphone out to the crowd to punctuate the 
climactic end of the song. And if the visitors were ahead in that game, 
Harry would typically make a plea to the home team's offense: "Let's get 
some runs!" The seventh-inning stretch routine became Caray's best-remembered 
trademark; after his death, the Cubs began a practice of inviting guest 
celebrities, local and national, to lead the singing Caray-style. The use 
of "guest conductors" continues to this day. Since installing the jumbotron 
screens inside Wrigley Field in 2015, the Cubs have periodically shown 
video footage of Caray singing "Take Me Out To The Ball Game" as the fans 
sing along. During the 2009 NHL Winter Classic at Wrigley Field, as the 
Chicago Blackhawks hosted the Detroit Red Wings on New Year's Day 2009, 
former Blackhawks players Bobby Hull, Stan Mikita, and Denis Savard and 
former Cubs players Ryne Sandberg and Ferguson Jenkins sang a hockey-themed 
version of the seventh-inning stretch; "Take Me Out to the Hockey Game" 
used lines such as "Root, root, root for the Blackhawks" and "One, two, 
three pucks, you're out." The Blackhawks would do this again in 2010 during 
the White Sox – Cubs game at Wrigley Field.[13] This time, it was members 
of the Stanley Cup winning team.[13] Caray had a number of broadcasting 
partners and colleagues through the years. He had a frosty relationship 
with Milo Hamilton, his first partner with the Cubs, who felt Caray had 
pushed him out in St. Louis in the mid-1950s. Hamilton (who'd been the 
presumptive successor to Jack Brickhouse prior to Caray's hiring) was fired 
by WGN in 1984; he claimed that station officials told him that the main 
reason was that Caray did not like him.[14] However, Caray also did not 
lack for broadcast companions who enjoyed his work and companionship. With 
the White Sox, his longest-serving partner was Jimmy Piersall; with the 
Cubs, he was teamed for 14 years with former pitcher Steve Stone. Caray 
was known for his absolute support of the team for which he announced. 
While advertisers played up his habit of openly rooting for the Cubs from 
the booth (for example, a 1980s Budweiser ad described him as "Cub Fan, 
Bud Man" in a Blues Brothers-style parody of "Soul Man"), he had been even 
less restrained about rooting for the Cardinals when he broadcast for them. 
He said later that his firing from the Cardinals changed his outlook and 
made him realize that his passion was for the game itself, and the fans, 
more than anything else. He was also famous for his frequently exclaimed 
catchphrase "Holy Cow!" when his team hit a home run or turned a difficult 
play on field; he trained himself to use this expression to avoid any chance 
of accidentally using profanity on the air.[15] Caray also avoided any 
risk of mis-calling a home run, using what became a trademark home run 
call: "It might be ... it could be ... it IS! A home run! Holy cow!" He 
first used the "It might be ..." part of that expression on the air while 
covering a college baseball tournament in Kalamazoo, Michigan, in the early 
1940s.[15] Caray was intrigued by unusual names, and one of his frequent 
on-air bits was to try to pronounce a multi-syllabic name backwards. This 
bit became more challenging for him after his 1987 stroke, but he kept 
trying and laughing at his often failed attempts. Once, when Manny Mota 
had just lined out to a Cardinals fielder who did not even need to move 
his feet to make the catch, Harry proclaimed: "'Mota' spelled backwards 
is 'atom' ... and that's where he hit it, right at 'im'!" Caray had a reputation 
for mastering all aspects of broadcasting: writing his own copy, conducting 
news interviews, writing and presenting editorials, covering other sports 
such as University of Missouri football, and hosting a sports talk program. 
Though best known and honored for baseball work, Caray also called football 
(Missouri Tigers football), ice hockey (St. Louis Flyers), basketball (St. 
Louis Billikens, Boston Celtics and St. Louis Hawks) in the 1940s, 50s 
and '60s. Additionally, he broadcast eight Cotton Bowl Classic games (1958–64, 
1966) on network radio. Caray was the uncle of actor Tim Dunigan known 
for playing many roles on both the screen and stage. His son Skip Caray 
followed him into the booth as a baseball broadcaster with the Atlanta 
Braves. Caray's broadcasting legacy was extended to a third-generation, 
as his grandson Chip Caray replaced Harry as the Cubs' play-by-play announcer 
from 1998 to 2004. Chip currently serves as the Braves television announcer 
on FOX Sports South. On October 23, 1987, Harry Caray's Italian Steakhouse 
opened in the Chicago Varnish Company Building, a Chicago Landmark building 
that is also listed on the National Register of Historic Places. There 
are seven restaurants and an off-premises catering division which bear 
the Harry Caray name. Caray maintained a winter home in Palm Springs, California, 
along with his primary residence in Chicago.[4] As discussed in Steve Stone's 
1999 book, Where's Harry?, Caray was at a Rancho Mirage restaurant on February 
14, 1998, celebrating Valentine's Day with his wife Dutchie, when he collapsed, 
in the process allegedly hitting his head on the side of a restaurant table, 
and was rushed to nearby Eisenhower Medical Center.[16] He never regained 
consciousness. He suffered cardiac arrest, with resulting brain damage, 
and died four days later.[17] Caray's funeral took place in downtown Chicago's 
Holy Name Cathedral on February 27, two days before he would have turned 
84.[16] Many celebrities and athletes were in attendance, including Sammy 
Sosa and former Chicago Bears head coach Mike Ditka. At his funeral, the 
organ played "Take Me Out to the Ball Game." Harry Caray's body is interred 
in All Saints Cemetery in Des Plaines, Illinois.[18] Following his death, 
during the entire 1998 season the Cubs wore a patch on the sleeves of their 
uniforms depicting a caricature of Caray. Cubs slugger Sammy Sosa dedicated 
each of his 66 home runs that season to Caray.[19] Caray had five children, 
three with his first wife, Dorothy, and two with his second wife, Marian. 
He married his third wife Delores "Dutchie" (Goldmann) on May 19, 1975. 
His son Skip Caray followed him into the booth as a baseball broadcaster 
with the Atlanta Braves until his death on August 3, 2008. Caray's broadcasting 
legacy was extended to a third generation, as his grandson Chip Caray replaced 
Harry as the Cubs' play-by-play announcer from 1998 to 2004. Chip later 
returned to work with his father Skip on Atlanta Braves broadcasts, where 
he had worked for a while in the early 1990s. In what Harry Caray said 
was one of his proudest moments, he worked some innings in the same broadcast 
booth with his son and grandson, during a Cubs/Braves game on May 13, 1991. 
On-air in a professional setting, the younger men would refer to their 
seniors by their first names. During 1998, Chip would refer to the departed 
Harry in third person as "Granddad". His half-brother Josh is a broadcaster 
and producer for WLAQ radio in Rome, Georgia, calling the Class A Rome 
Braves baseball and Rome High School football. When the Cubs defeated the 
Cleveland Indians in seven games to win the 2016 World Series, Budweiser 
produced a celebratory commercial entitled "Harry Caray's Last Call" featuring 
Caray's call of the game using archived footage.[20] The National Sportscasters 
and Sportswriters Association named Caray as Missouri Sportscaster of the 
Year twice (1959, 1960) and Illinois Sportscaster of the Year 10 times 
(1971–73, 75–78, 83–85), and inducted him into its NSSA Hall of Fame in 
1988. In 1989, the Baseball Hall of Fame presented Caray with the Ford 
C. Frick Award for "major contributions to baseball." That same year, he 
was inducted into the American Sportscasters Association Hall of Fame. 
He was also inducted into the National Radio Hall of Fame in 1990, and 
has his own star on the St. Louis Walk of Fame.[21][22] On June 24, 1994, 
the Chicago Cubs had a special day honoring Harry for 50 years of broadcasting 
Major League Baseball. Sponsored by the Cubs and Kemper Insurance, pins 
were given out to some unknown number of fans in attendance that day. The 
pins had a picture of Harry, with writing saying "HARRY CARAY, 50 YEARS 
BROADCASTING, Kemper MUTUAL FUNDS" and "HOLY COW." In 1994, Caray was the 
radio inductee into the NAB Broadcasting Hall of Fame. Caray's style became 
fodder for pop culture parody as well, including a memorable Saturday Night 
Live recurring sketch featuring Caray (played by Will Ferrell) in various 
Weekend Update segments opposite Norm MacDonald and Colin Quinn. Caray 
would frequently abandon the topic he was supposed to be talking about 
and would drift into hypothetical topics like whether or not they would 
eat the moon if it were made of spare ribs and turning hot dogs into currency 
(20 hot dogs would equal roughly a nickel, depending on the strength of 
the yen). The sketch continued after Caray's death. When asked by Norm 
MacDonald about his death, Will Ferrell as Caray replied, "What's your 
point?" The Bob and Tom Show also had a Harry Caray parody show called 
"After Hours Sports", which eventually became "Afterlife Sports" after 
Caray's death, and the Heaven and Hell Baseball Game, in which Caray is 
the broadcast announcer for the games. On the Nickelodeon series Back at 
the Barnyard, news reporter Hilly Burford bears a strong resemblance to 
Caray, both in appearance and speech. In 2005, the cartoon Codename: Kids 
Next Door had two announcers reporting a baseball game. One was a parody 
of Caray, the other, Howard Cosell. Another Caray impersonation was done 
by Chicago radio personality Jim Volkman, heard most often on the Loop 
and AM1000. Also, comedian Artie Lange, in his standup, talks about Caray. 
Caray can be briefly heard in the 1986 film Ferris Bueller's Day Off, as 
a Cubs game is shown on a TV in a pizza parlor. In 2008, a series of Chicago-area 
TV and radio ads for AT&T's Advanced TV featured comedian John Caponera 
impersonating the post-stroke version of Harry Caray. However, AT&T soon 
withdrew the spots following widespread criticism and a complaint by Caray's 
widow.[23] Ryan Dempster, former Chicago Cubs pitcher, is known for his 
Harry Caray impression, most notably, he announced the Cubs' starting lineup 
while speaking like the post-stroke version of Caray before a nationally 
televised baseball game on Fox Sports. Dempster led the stadium in singing 
'Take Me Out To The Ballgame' in July 2016, dressed as Caray, including 
oversized glasses and wig. Atlanta Braves pitcher Will Ohman performed 
a Harry Caray impersonation when announcing the starting lineup for the 
Atlanta Braves during a Fox Game of the Week in 2008.[24] In 1988, Vess 
Beverage Inc. released and sold a Harry Caray signature soda, under the 
