William Henry "Harry" Wright (January 10, 1835 – October 3, 1895) was an 
English-born American professional baseball player, manager, and developer. 
He assembled, managed, and played center field for baseball's first fully 
professional team, the 1869 Cincinnati Red Stockings. It was there where 
he is credited with introducing innovations such as backing up infield 
plays from the outfield and shifting defensive alignments based on hitters' 
tendencies. For his contributions as a manager and developer of the game, 
he was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1952 by the Veterans 
Committee. Wright was also the first to make baseball into a business by 
paying his players up to seven times the pay of the average working man. 
Born in Sheffield, England, he was the eldest of five children of professional 
cricketer Samuel Wright and his wife, Annie Tone Wright.[1] His family 
emigrated to the U.S. when he was nearly three years old, and his father 
found work as a bowler, coach, and groundskeeper at the St George's Cricket 
Club in New York. Harry dropped out of school at age 14 to work for a jewelry 
manufacturer, and worked at Tiffany's for several years.[2] Both Harry 
and George, twelve years younger, assisted their father, effectively apprenticing 
as cricket "club pros". Harry played against the first English cricket 
team to tour overseas in 1859.[3] Both brothers played baseball for some 
of the leading clubs during the amateur era of the National Association 
of Base Ball Players (NABBP). Harry was already twenty-two when the baseball 
fraternity convened for the first time in 1857, at which time he joined 
the Knickerbocker Base Ball Club. He did not play in a game with the Knickerbockers 
until July 8, 1858, playing the outfield against Excelsior of Brooklyn. 
The Knickerbockers lost the game, 31–13.[4] In 1863, the Knickerbocker 
club all but withdrew from official competition, and Wright joined Gotham 
of New York, primarily playing shortstop.[5] Here, he joined his brother 
George, who had become a member of the team the previous year.[6] During 
the winter of 1864/65, the Wrights played the curious game of "ice base 
ball".[7] Wright left New York on March 8, 1865, bound for Cincinnati, 
where he had been hired on salary at the Union Cricket Club.[8] When baseball 
boomed less than a year later in 1866, the first full peacetime season, 
he became, in effect, club pro at the Cincinnati Base Ball Club, although 
he is commonly called simply a baseball "manager" from that time. By now, 
Wright was 31, probably past his athletic prime. Cincinnati fielded a strong 
regional club in 1867. With Wright working as the regular pitcher, and 
still a superior player at that level, the team won 16 matches and lost 
only to the Nationals of Washington, D.C. on their historic tour. For 1868 
he added four players from the East and one from the crosstown Buckeye 
club, a vanquished rival. The easterners, at least, must have been compensated 
by club members if not by the club. When the NABBP permitted professionalism 
for 1869, Harry augmented his 1868 imports (retaining four of five) with 
five new men, including three more originally from the East. No one but 
Harry Wright himself remained from 1867; one local man and one other westerner 
joined seven easterners on the famous First Nine. The most important of 
the new men was brother George, probably the best player in the game for 
a few years, the highest paid man in Cincinnati at $1400 for nine months. 
George at shortstop remained a cornerstone of Harry's teams for ten seasons. 
The Red Stockings toured the continent undefeated in 1869 and may have 
been the strongest team in 1870, but the club dropped professional base 
ball after the second season, its fourth in the game. As it turned out, 
the Association also passed from the scene. During this early era, the 
rules of the sport for many years prohibited substitution during games 
except by mutual agreement with opponents, and the role of a team manager 
was not as specifically geared toward game strategy as in the modern era; 
instead, managers of the period combined the role of a field manager with 
that of a modern general manager in that they were primarily responsible 
for signing talented players and forming a versatile roster, as well as 
establishing a team approach through practice and game fundamentals. In 
1869 Wright became the first to make written mention of the Seventh-inning 
stretch in a game he watched. From an invitation in 1870 by Ivers Whitney 
Adams, the founder and President of the Boston Red Stockings, Wright moved 
from managing the "Cincinnati Red Stockings" to work professionally with 
the first-ever base ball team in Boston, the "Boston Red Stockings". The 
team was to play in the newly formed National Association of Professional 
Base Ball Players, now known more often as simply the National Association. 
The Red Stockings finished third in the NA's inaugural season. Wright, 
now 36 years old and the second-oldest player in the league, was the team's 
regular center fielder, playing 30 of the team's 31 games at that position.[9] 
He also pitched in nine games in relief of Albert Spalding, notching one 
win. In 1872, the Red Stockings won its first championship, beating the 
Baltimore Canaries by 7½ games. They won again the next season, finishing 
four games ahead of the Philadelphia Athletics. 1874 turned out to be Wright's 
last year as the team's regular center fielder. He had been the oldest 
player in the NA for three years running. It was also his third straight 
championship as manager. That year, he organized what turned out to be 
a fairly disastrous attempt to take baseball back home to the British Isles.[10] 
In 1875, the final year of the NA, the Red Stockings were an amazing 71-8, 
finishing a full 15 games ahead of the Athletics. Wright, now the oldest 
player in the league, continued to play regularly in center field for Boston 
until 1874. After that, he played in just three more games, one in each 
of the next three seasons. In 1876, the Boston club joined the new National 
League. They became the "Red Caps" now, in deference to the resurrected 
Red Stockings name for the new Cincinnati Club.[10] Although they once 
again stumbled in their first year in a new league, finishing fourth in 
1876, they went on to win two more pennants in the following two seasons 
with Wright at the helm. The team finished second in 1879, but then slipped 
badly, finishing sixth in the next two seasons, which wound up being Wright's 
last two seasons in Boston. After leaving the Red Caps, Wright quickly 
picked up with the Providence Grays, one of the stronger NL teams of the 
era. In 1882, his first season as Grays manager, the team finished in second 
place, just three games behind the powerful Chicago White Stockings led 
by Cap Anson. The team dropped to third the following year, and Wright 
moved on again. While in Providence, Wright instituted the concept of a 
farm team. Wright assembled a team of amateurs, which would play at Messer 
Street Grounds while the Grays were on the road, with the intention that 
if one of the senior members was injured, he could be easily replaced from 
among these players.[10] In 1884, Wright was brought in to manage the Philadelphia 
Quakers. The Quakers had joined the National League the previous year, 
finishing dead last with an abysmal record of 17-81. Under Wright, they 
improved enough to finish in sixth place in 1884. In 1885, the team finished 
above .500 for the first time, going 56-54 and finishing in third place, 
a distant 30 games behind the White Stockings and 28 games behind second-place 
New York Giants. The Quakers continued to improve under Wright in 1886, 
finishing with a record of 71-43, although their position in the league 
fell to fourth. In 1887, the team finished in second place, just 3½ games 
behind the champion Detroit Wolverines. Unfortunately, that was to be the 
high-water mark of Wright's tenure in Philadelphia, as the team hovered 
in the middle of the pack, finishing between third and fifth every year 
from 1888 until 1893 (although he missed a large portion of the 1890 season 
due to problems with his eyesight[10]). During Wright's tenure in Philadelphia, 
he often clashed with team owners Al Reach and Colonel John I. Rogers. 
After the 1893 season, his contract was not renewed. The National League, 
in recognition of Wright's standing, offered him the position of Chief 
of Umpires. During his career, Wright had often served as umpire, even 
for games involving rival teams, due to his high ethical standards.[10] 
In 23 seasons of managing in the National Association and National League, 
Wright's teams won six league championships (1872–75, 1877, 1878). They 
finished second on three other occasions, and never finished lower than 
sixth. Wright finished his managerial career with 1225 wins and 885 losses 
for a .581 winning percentage. Wright died of a lung ailment on October 
3, 1895 in Atlantic City, New Jersey, He is buried in West Laurel Hill 
Cemetery, Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania. Wright was inducted into the Baseball 
Hall of Fame in 1953. He was inducted into the Cincinnati Reds Hall of 
Fame in 2005. His brother George Wright is also a member of both Halls; 
a third brother, Sam, also played professionally. In July 2009, Hunt Auctions 
stopped bidding on several lots of 19th-century letters sent to Wright 
and removed them from the auction. This was in response to an FBI investigation 
regarding the possibility that they were stolen from the New York Public 
Library sometime prior to 1986. The library was once in possession of four 
scrapbooks of letters that had been sent to Wright between 1865 and 1894, 
but in an assessment of the collection conducted during 1986 and 1987, 
three of the four volumes were discovered missing. FBI investigators are 
trying to determine "whether those items were among the items apparently 
stolen from the public library collection". The lots, over 20 in total, 
were part of a live auction Hunt Auctions was conducting during the Major 
