Hartford is the capital of Connecticut and the historic seat of Hartford 
County until Connecticut disbanded county government in 1960. As of the 
2010 Census, Hartford's population was 124,775,[1] making it Connecticut's 
third-largest city after the coastal cities of Bridgeport and New Haven. 
Census Bureau estimates since then have indicated Hartford's subsequent 
fall to fourth place statewide as a result of sustained population growth 
in the coastal city of Stamford. Nicknamed the "Insurance Capital of the 
World", Hartford houses many insurance company headquarters, and insurance 
remains the region's major industry.[2] Founded in 1635, Hartford is among 
the oldest cities in the United States. Hartford is home to the nation's 
oldest public art museum, the Wadsworth Atheneum; the oldest publicly funded 
park, Bushnell Park; the oldest continuously published newspaper, The Hartford 
Courant; the second-oldest secondary school, Hartford Public; Trinity College, 
an elite, private liberal arts college, and the Mark Twain House where 
the author wrote his most famous works and raised his family, among other 
historically significant attractions. In 1868, resident Mark Twain wrote, 
"Of all the beautiful towns it has been my fortune to see this is the chief."[3] 
Following the American Civil War, Hartford was the richest city in the 
United States for several decades.[4] Today, Hartford is one of the poorest 
cities in the nation with 3 out of every 10 families living below the poverty 
line.[5] In sharp contrast, the Hartford metropolitan area is ranked 32nd 
of 318 metropolitan areas in total economic production[6] and 7th out of 
280 metropolitan statistical areas in per capita income. Highlighting the 
socio-economic disparity between Hartford and its suburbs, 83% of Hartford's 
jobs are filled by commuters from neighboring towns who earn over $80,000, 
while 75% of Hartford residents who commute to work in other towns earn 
just $40,000.[7] Various tribes, all part of the loose Algonquin confederation, 
lived in or around present-day Hartford. The area was referred to as Suckiaug', 
meaning "Black Fertile River-Enhanced Earth, good for planting." These 
included the Podunks, mostly east of the Connecticut River; the Poquonocks, 
north and west of Hartford; the Massacoes, in the Simsbury area; the Tunxis 
tribe, in West Hartford and Farmington; the Wangunks, to the south; and 
the Saukiog in Hartford itself.[8] The first Europeans known to have explored 
the area were the Dutch, under Adriaen Block, who sailed up the Connecticut 
in 1614. Dutch fur traders from New Amsterdam returned in 1623 with a mission 
to establish a trading post and fortify the area for the Dutch West India 
Company. The original site was located on the south bank of the Park River 
in the present-day Sheldon/Charter Oak neighborhood. This fort was called 
Fort Hoop, or the "House of Hope." In 1633, Jacob Van Curler formally bought 
the land around Fort Hoop from the Pequot chief for a small sum. It was 
home to perhaps a couple families and a few dozen soldiers. The area today 
is known as Dutch Point, and the name of the Dutch fort, "House of Hope," 
is reflected in the name of Huyshope Avenue.[9] The fort was abandoned 
by 1654, but its neighborhood in Hartford is still known as Dutch Point.[10] 
The Dutch outpost, and the tiny contingent of Dutch soldiers that were 
stationed there, did little to check the English migration. The Dutch soon 
realized they were vastly outnumbered. The House of Hope remained an outpost, 
but it was steadily swallowed up by waves of English settlers. In 1650, 
when Peter Stuyvesant met with English representatives to negotiate a "permanent" 
boundary between the Dutch and English colonies, the line they agreed on 
was more than 50 miles (80 km) west of the original settlement. The English 
began to arrive 1637, settling upstream from Fort Hoop near the present-day 
Downtown and Sheldon/Charter Oak neighborhoods.[11] Pastor Thomas Hooker 
and Governor John Haynes led 100 settlers with 130 head of cattle in a 
trek from Newtown (now Cambridge, Massachusetts) in the Massachusetts Bay 
Colony and started their settlement just north of the Dutch fort.[12] The 
settlement was originally called Newtown, but was changed to Hartford in 
1637 to honor the English town of Hertford the explorer also created the 
town of Windsor (in 1633).[13] The fledgling colony along the Connecticut 
River had issues with the authority by which it was to be governed because 
it was outside of the jurisdiction of the Massachusetts Bay Colony's charter. 
Therefore, Hooker delivered a sermon that inspired the writing of the Fundamental 
Orders of Connecticut, a document (ratified January 14, 1639) investing 
the people with the authority to govern, rather than ceding such authority 
to a higher power. Historians suggest that Hooker's conception of self-rule 
embodied in the Fundamental Orders went on to inspire the Connecticut Constitution, 
and ultimately the U.S. Constitution. Today, one of Connecticut's nicknames 
is the "Constitution State."[14] The original settlement area contained 
the site of The Charter Oak. The Charter Oak was an unusually old white 
oak tree in which, according to legend, colonists hid the Connecticut's 
Royal Charter of 1662 to protect it from confiscation by an English governor-general. 
Thus the grand, stately tree came to symbolize the power of nature as a 
defender of freedom throughout Connecticut. In fact, the state adopted 
the image as the emblem of the Connecticut state quarter. The Charter Oak 
Monument is located at the corner of Charter Oak Place, a historic street, 
and Charter Oak Avenue.[15] Throughout the 19th century, Hartford's residential 
population, economic productivity, cultural influence, and concentration 
of political power continued to grow. The advance of the Industrial Revolution 
in Hartford in the mid-1800s made this city by late century one of the 
wealthiest per capita in United States.[16] On December 15, 1814, the Hartford 
Convention was called to order in Hartford. Delegations from the five New 
England states (Maine was still part of Massachusetts at that time) were 
sent to Hartford to discuss New England's possible secession from the United 
States. During the early 19th century, the Hartford area was a center of 
abolitionist activity. The most famous abolitionist family was the Beechers. 
The Reverend Lyman Beecher was an important Congregational minister known 
for his anti-slavery sermons. His daughter, Harriet Beecher Stowe, wrote 
the famous Uncle Tom's Cabin, while her brother, the Reverend Henry Ward 
Beecher, was a noted clergyman who vehemently opposed slavery and supported 
the temperance movement and women's suffrage. Beecher Stowe's sister, Isabella 
Beecher Hooker, was a leading member of the women's rights movement. In 
1860, Hartford was the site of the first "Wide Awakes," abolitionist supporters 
of Abraham Lincoln. These supporters organized torch-light parades that 
were both political and social events, often including fireworks and music, 
in celebration of Lincoln's visit to the city. This type of event caught 
on and eventually became a staple of mid-to-late-19th century campaigning. 
Perhaps the greatest influence on Hartford's development in the 100 years 
after independence was Samuel Colt, an industrialist and inventor, and 
his wife Elizabeth Colt. Although Colt is often considered the father of 
the Connecticut River Valley industrial revolution, there were in fact 
a handful of small outfits already in operation by the time Colt purchased 
a large tract of land in the area in the 1840s. In 1836, the Connecticut-born 
gun manufacturer received a U.S. patent for a revolver mechanism that enabled 
a gun to be fired multiple times without reloading. Sales were initially 
slow and Colt's business ventures struggled. Then in 1846, with the Mexican–American 
War under way, the U.S. government ordered 1,000 Colt revolvers. In 1848, 
Colt was able to start again with a new business of his own, and 1855, 
he converted it into a corporation under the name of Colt's Patent Fire 
Arms Manufacturing Company. Settled just south of downtown Hartford the 
original factory is situated modern-day Sheldon/Charter Oak neighborhood.[17] 
With business booming, Colt entered an aggressive and expansionary phase 
and by 1855, Colt opened what was the world's largest private armament 
factory, the Colt Armory, in which he employed advanced manufacturing techniques 
such as interchangeable parts and an organized production line. By 1856, 
the company could produce 150 weapons per day. The Civil War led to a surge 
in demand, and Colt supplied the Union Army. Colt's Patent Fire-Arms Manufacturing 
Company operated at full capacity and employed over 1,000 people in its 
Hartford factory. By that time, Colt had become one of the wealthiest men 
in America was presiding over his enterprise from Armsmear, an ornate Italianate 
manor built near the armory in 1857. Upon his death in 1862, Colt was worth 
over $15 million ($380 million by 2015 standards).[18] Colt's methods were 
at the forefront of the Industrial Revolution, and his successes secured 
Hartford's place as a major 19th century manufacturing center. It is estimated 
that in its first 25 years of manufacturing, Colt's company produced over 
400,000 revolvers. His use of interchangeable parts helped him become one 
of the first to exploit the assembly line.[19] Moreover, his innovative 
use of art, celebrity endorsements and corporate gifts to promote his wares 
made him a pioneer in the fields of advertising, product placement and 
mass marketing. His business practices were also innovative, involving 
not just a shrewd use of patents to protect his products, but also new 
developments in marketing and business organization to create a highly 
successful business which long outlived him. Elizabeth Colt inherited a 
controlling interest in her late husband's manufacturing company following 
his death in 1862. At the time, Colt firearms were producing an estimated 
1/996th of the entire gross national product of the United States. She 
steered the company until 1901 (with her brother Richard Jarvis as president), 
becoming one of the most prominent female industrialists in America. Together 
the two transitioned the company from the end of the American Civil War 
through the early 20th century seeing the evolution from percussion revolvers 
to cartridge revolvers to semiautomatic pistols and machineguns.[20] In 
addition, the Colts left an indelible imprint on Hartford's built environment. 
Inspired by what he had seen during a trip to London in 1851, Colt embarked 
upon one of the boldest real estate development campaigns in Hartford's 
history. His intention to build an industrial community to house his workers 
adjacent to the Colt Armory. By 1856, it was a city within a city, where 
workers of many nationalities and religions worked, lived and recreated 
alongside one another. While not the largest, the most prominent or the 
most tightly controlled of America's 19th century company towns, Coltsville 
was among the country's first, and easily the most advanced of its time. 
Colt's complex also included the largest armory in the world, wharf and 
ferry facilities on the Connecticut River.[21] After a major fire destroyed 
the original armory in 1864, Colt's widow had the original armory rebuilt 
including the original structure's most dramatic feature: the blue onion 
dome with gold starts, topped by a gold orb and a rampant colt, the original 
symbol of Colt Manufacturing Company. Visible to commuters on I-91, the 
Colt Armory stands a monument to Hartford's first "celebrity industrialist," 
and the once mighty empire he created.[22] Elizabeth Colt dedicated her 
final decades to philanthropy and public works. Following her son's death, 
she commissioned the Church of the Good Shepherd in 1896 as a monument 
to his life. Built in High Victorian Gothic style, architectural features 
include a variety of gun parts, such as bullet molds, gunsights and cylinders. 
This unusual characteristic earns the building the title of likely being 
the only church in the world with a gun motif.[23] With no remaining children, 
Elizabeth willed her extensive collection of rare art to the Wadsworth 
Atheneum in Hartford, one of the oldest art galleries in America. The Elizabeth 
Hart Jarvis Colt Memorial Wing was the first American museum wing to bear 
the name of a female patron.[24] When Elizabeth Colt died in 1904, she 
willed the majority of her estate, Armsmear, to the City of Hartford for 
use as a public park. Today, the 105 acres (42 ha) Colt Park services the 
community with a number of athletic fields, playgrounds, a swimming pool, 
playground, skating rink and Dillon Stadium.[25] From the 19th century 
until the mid-20th century, Hartford was a major manufacturing city. During 
the Industrial Revolution into the mid-20th century, the Connecticut River 
Valley cities produced many major precision manufacturing innovations. 
Among these was Hartford's pioneer bicycle (and later) automobile maker 
Pope.[26] As in nearly all former Northern manufacturing cities, many factories 
have been closed, relocated, or reduced operations. Around 1850, Hartford 
native Samuel Colt perfected the precision manufacturing process that enabled 
the mass production of thousands of his revolvers with interchangeable 
parts. Over the next several decades, a variety of industries adopted and 
adapted these techniques and Hartford became the center of production for 
a wide array of products—including firearms by Colt, Richard Gatling and 
John Browning; Weed sewing machines; Royal and Underwood typewriters; Columbia 
bicycles; and even Pope automobiles.[27] Just three years after Colt's 
first factory opened, another weapons manufacturer set up shop in 1852 
at a nearby site situated along the now-buried Park River. Located in the 
present-day neighborhood of Frog Hollow, the Sharps Rifle Manufacturing 
Company factory heralded the beginning of the area's transformation from 
marshy farmland into a major industrial zone. The road leading from town 
to the factory was called Rifle Lane; the name was later changed to College 
Street and then Capitol Avenue.[28] A century earlier, mills had located 
along the Park River because of the water power, but by the 1850s water 
power was approaching obsolescence. Sharps located there specifically to 
take advantage of the railroad line that had been constructed alongside 
the river in 1838. After the Sharps Rifle Company failed in 1870, the Weed 
Sewing Machine Company took over its factory. The invention of a new type 
sewing machine was an evolution of mass production after the principles 
of interchangeability were applied to clocks and guns. The Weed Company 
played a major role in making Hartford one of three machine tool centers 
in New England and even outranked the Colt Armory in nearby Coltsville 
in size, if not fame.[28] Weed eventually would become the birthplace of 
both the bicycle and automobile industries in Hartford. Inspired by a British-made, 
high-wheel bicycle, or velocipede, he saw at the 1876 Philadelphia Centennial 
Exposition industrialist Albert Pope bought patent rights for bicycle production 
in the United States. Wanting to contract out his first order, however, 
Pope approached George Fairfield of Hartford of Weed Sewing Machine Company, 
who produced Pope's first run of bicycles in 1878.[29] Bicycles proved 
to be a huge commercial success and production in the Weed factory expanded, 
with Weed making every part but the tires, and by 1890, demand for bicycles 
overshadowed the failing sewing machine market. That year, Pope bought 
the Weed factory, took over as its president, and renamed it the Pope Manufacturing 
Company. The bicycle boom was short-lived, peaking near the turn of the 
century when more and more consumers craved individual automobile travel, 
and Pope's company suffered financially from over-production amidst falling 
demand. In an effort to save his business, Pope opened a Motor Carriage 
Department and turned out electric carriages, beginning with the "Mark 
III" in 1897. Pope's venture might have made Hartford the capital of the 
automobile industry were it not for the ascendency of Henry Ford and a 
series of pitfalls and patent struggles that outlived Pope himself.[30] 
In 1876 Hartford Machine Screw was granted a charter "for the purpose of 
manufacturing screws, hardware and machinery of every variety." The basis 
for its incorporation was the epochal invention of the first single-spindle 
automatic screw machine. For its next four years the new firm occupied 
one of Weed's buildings, milling thousands of screws daily on over 50 machines. 
Its president was the same George Fairfield who ran Weed and its superintendent 
was Christopher Spencer, arguably Connecticut's most versatile inventor. 
Soon Hartford Machine Screw outgrew its quarters and built a new factory 
adjacent to Weed, where it would remain until 1948. On the week of April 
12, 1909, the Connecticut River reached a then-record flood stage of 24½ 
feet above the low water mark flooding the city and doing great damage.[31] 
On July 6, 1944, Hartford was the scene of one of the worst fire disasters 
in the history of the United States. The fire, which occurred at a performance 
of the Ringling Brothers and Barnum and Bailey Circus, became known as 
the Hartford Circus Fire. After World War II, many residents of Puerto 
Rico moved to Hartford and even today Puerto Rican flags can be found on 
cars and buildings all over the city. Former Hartford Mayor Eddie Pérez 
was born in Puerto Rico and moved to Hartford in 1969, when he was 12 years 
old. Starting in the late 1950s, as the suburbs ringing Hartford began 
to grow and flourish, the capital city began a long decline. Insurance 
giant Connecticut General (now CIGNA) moved to a new, modern campus in 
the suburb of Bloomfield. Constitution Plaza, at first hailed as a model 
of urban renewal, gradually became a concrete office park. Once-flourishing 
department stores such as Brown Thomson, Sage-Allen, and G. Fox & Co. all 
shut down as suburban malls such as Westfarms and Buckland Hills grew in 
popularity. In 1997, the city lost its professional hockey franchise, the 
Hartford Whalers, to Raleigh, North Carolina despite an increase in season 
ticket sales and an offer of a new arena from the state. Currently a developer 
from Newton, Massachusetts who is also the city's largest property owner 
is working with the city to bring an NHL team back to Hartford and house 
them in a new largely publicly funded stadium.[32] Hartford experienced 
problems as the population shrank 11 percent during the 1990s. Only Flint, 
Michigan; Gary, Indiana; Saint Louis and Baltimore experienced larger population 
losses during the decade. However, the population has increased since the 
2000 Census.[33] In 1987, Carrie Saxon Perry was elected mayor of Hartford, 
the first female African-American mayor of a major American city.[34] In 
2004, Underground Coalition, a Connecticut hip hop promotion company, produced 
The First Annual Hartford Hip Hop festival, which also took place at Adriaen's 
Landing. The event drew over 5,000 fans. A significant number of cultural 
events and performances take place every year at Mortensen Plaza (Riverfront 
Recapture Organization) by the banks of the CT River. These events are 
held outdoors and include live music, festivals, dance, arts and crafts 
and they are very diverse in ethnicity. Hartford also has a vibrant theater 
scene with major Broadway productions at the Bushnell Theater as well as 
performances at the Hartford Stage and Theaterworks (City Arts). According 
to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 18.0 square 
miles (47 km2), of which 17.3 square miles (45 km2) is land and 0.7 square 
miles (1.8 km2) (3.67%) is water. Hartford is bordered by the towns of 
West Hartford, Newington, Wethersfield, East Hartford, Bloomfield, South 
Windsor, and Windsor. The Connecticut River forms the boundary between 
Hartford and East Hartford. The Park River originally divided Hartford 
into northern and southern sections and was a major part of Bushnell Park, 
but the river was nearly completely enclosed and buried by flood control 
projects in the 1940s.[35] The former course of the river can still be 
seen in some of the roadways that were built in the river's place, such 
as Jewell Street and the Conlin-Whitehead Highway.[36] Hartford lies in 
the humid continental climate zone (Köppen Dfa), and is part of USDA Hardiness 
zone 6b, degrading to 6a in the northern, western, and eastern suburbs 
away from the Connecticut River valley. Seasonally, the period from May 
through October is warm to hot in Hartford, with the hottest months being 
June, July, and August. In the summer months there is often high humidity 
and occasional (but brief) thundershowers. The cool to cold months are 
from November through April, with the coldest months in December, January, 
and February having average highs in the lower 30's F and overnight lows 
near 20 F. The average annual precipitation is approximately 45.9 inches 
(1,170 mm),[37] which is distributed fairly evenly throughout the year. 
Hartford typically receives about 44.5 inches (113 cm) of snow in an average 
winter – about 40% more than coastal Connecticut cities like New Haven, 
Stamford, and New London.[37] seasonal snowfall has ranged from 115.2 inches 
(293 cm) during the winter of 1995–96 to 13.5 inches (34 cm) in 1999–2000.[38] 
During the summer, temperatures reach or exceed 90 °F (32 °C) on an average 
of 17 days per year,[37] though the record number of occurrences was 38 
in 1983 and 1920 saw none. Conversely, on average, temperatures do not 
rise above freezing on 30 days and dip to 0 °F (−18 °C) or below on 4.0 
nights per year.[37] Tropical storms and hurricanes have also struck Hartford, 
although the occurrence of such systems is rare and is usually confined 
to the remnants of such storms. Hartford saw extensive damage from the 
1938 New England Hurricane, as well as with Hurricane Irene in 2011. The 
highest officially recorded temperature is 103 °F (39 °C) on July 22, 2011 
and the lowest is −26 °F (−32 °C) on January 22, 1961; the record cold 
daily maximum is −1 °F (−18 °C) on December 2, 1917, while, conversely, 
the record warm daily minimum is 80 °F (27 °C) on July 31, 1917.[37] As 
of the census[44] of 2010, there were 124,775 people, 44,986 households, 
and 27,171 families residing in the city. The population density was 7,025.5 
people per square mile (2,711.8/km²). There were 50,644 housing units at 
an average density of 2,926.5 per square mile (1,129.6/km²). The racial 
makeup of the city was 29.8% white, 38.7% African American or black, 0.6% 
Native American, 2.8% Asian, 0% Pacific Islander, 23.9% from other races, 
and 4.2% from two or more races. 43.4% of the population were Hispanic 
or Latino, chiefly of Puerto Rican origin.[45] Whites not of Latino background 
were 15.8% of the population in 2010,[46] down from 63.9% in 1970.[47] 
There were 44,986 households, out of which 34.4% had children under the 
age of 18 living with them, 25.2% were married couples living together, 
29.6% had a female householder with no husband present, and 39.6% were 
non-families. 33.2% of all households were made up of individuals and 9.6% 
had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average 
household size was 2.58 and the average family size was 3.33. In the city, 
the population distribution skews young: 30.1% under the age of 18, 12.6% 
from 18 to 24, 29.8% from 25 to 44, 18.0% from 45 to 64, and 9.5% who were 
65 years of age or older. The median age was 30 years. For every 100 females, 
there were 91.4 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 
86.0 males. With 30 percent of the population living below the poverty 
line, Hartford's rate of poverty is second in the United States only to 
Brownsville, Texas.[48] The median income for a household in the city was 
$20,820, and the median income for a family was $22,051. Males had a median 
income of $28,444 versus $26,131 for females. The per capita income for 
the city was $13,428. After World War II, and continuing through the latter 
half of the 20th century, many Puerto Ricans moved to the city. As of 2010, 
33.7% of Hartford residents claimed Puerto Rican heritage. This was the 
second-largest concentration of Puerto Ricans in the Northeast, behind 
only Holyoke, Massachusetts, approximately 30 miles (48 km) to the north 
along the Connecticut River (source: 2010 census). Hartford is governed 
via the strong-mayor form of the mayor-council system. The current mayor 
is Luke Bronin. In 2015, Bronin succeeded former Mayor Pedro Segarra, who 
was sworn in as mayor on June 25, 2010, was Hartford's second mayor of 
Puerto Rican ancestry, and the first openly gay mayor of the city.[49][50] 
More than fifty years after establishing the council-manager form, Hartford 
voted in favor of restoring a mayor-council system in 2003, restoring municipal 
authority in an elected mayor in 2003. Mayor Eddie Perez, first elected 
in 2001, was re-elected with 76% of the vote in 2003. As the first strong 
mayor elected under the revised charter, he is widely credited with reducing 
crime, reforming the school system and sparking economic revitalization 
in the city. However, his reputation was hurt by accusations of corruption.[51] 
In Connecticut there is no county-level executive or legislative government; 
the counties determine probate, civil and criminal court boundaries, but 
little else. Connecticut municipalities (like those of neighboring states 
Massachusetts and Rhode Island) provide nearly all local services (such 
as fire and rescue, education, snow removal, etc.), as county government 
has been abolished since 1960.[52] The Hartford Fire Department provides 
fire protection and first responder emergency medical services to the city 
of Hartford. Operating out of 12 fire stations located throughout the city, 
the HFD is the fifth-largest fire department in Connecticut. Under the 
command of two Deputy Chiefs in two Districts, the HFD maintains a fire 
apparatus fleet of eleven engines, five ladders, one tac unit (rescue), 
one fireboat, one rehab unit, one decon Unit, one foam unit, one fire investigation 
unit, three Maintenance Units, and numerous other spare apparatus. The 
spare apparatus fleet comprises six spare engines, three spare ladders, 
one spare tac, and three spare district chief's units.[56][57] The Hartford 
Police Department (HPD) was founded in 1860, though the history of law 
enforcement in Hartford begins in 1636.[58] The current Hartford Police 
Chief is James C. Rovella.[59] The department is located at 253 High Street 
and includes divisions such as Animal Control, Bomb Squad, Detective Bureau, 
K-9 Unit, Marine Division, Records, E.R.T., and Vice & Narcotics. To date 
seven officers have died in the line of duty.[60] The proposed 2010–2011 
budget for the police department was $76,110,089, which included 424 sworn 
officers.[61] Hartford outsources ambulance services to private companies, 
including Aetna Ambulance in the South End and American Medical Response 
in the North End.[62] Hartford's neighborhoods are diverse and historic. 
The central business district, as well as the State Capitol, Old State 
House and a number of museums and shops are located Downtown. Parkville, 
home to Real Art Ways, is named for the confluence of the north and the 
south branches of the Park River. Frog Hollow, in close proximity to Downtown, 
is home to Pope Park and Trinity College, which is one of the nation's 
oldest institutions of higher learning. Asylum Hill, a mixed residential 
and commercial area, houses the headquarters of several insurance companies 
as well as the historic homes of Mark Twain and Harriet Beecher Stowe. 
The West End, home to the Governor's residence, Elizabeth Park, and the 
University of Connecticut School of Law, abuts the Hartford Golf Club. 
Sheldon Charter Oak is renowned as the location of the Charter Oak and 
its successor monument as well as the former Colt headquarters including 
Samuel Colt's family estate – Armsmear. The North East neighborhood is 
home to Keney Park and a number of the city's oldest and ornate homes. 
The South End features "Little Italy" and was the home of Hartford's sizeable 
Italian community. South Green hosts Hartford Hospital. The South Meadows 
is the site of Hartford-Brainard Airport and Hartford's industrial community. 
The North Meadows has retail strips, car dealerships, and Comcast Theatre. 
Blue Hills is home of the University of Hartford and also houses the largest 
per capita of residents claiming Jamaican-American heritage in the United 
States. Other neighborhoods in Hartford include Barry Square, Behind the 
Rocks, Clay Arsenal, South West, and Upper Albany- which is dotted by many 
Caribbean restaurants and specialty stores. In 2010, Hartford ranked 19th 
in the United States' annual national crime rankings, (below the 200.00 
rating.)[63] It had the second highest crime rate in Connecticut, behind 
New Haven. Statistically Hartford's Northern districts (North East, Asylum 
Hill, Upper Albany) had the highest murder rate, while the South districts 
(Downtown, Sheldon, South Green) had a slightly lower murder rate, but 
had the most crime overall. Overall, the South Meadows neighborhood had 
the lowest crime rate, respectively.[64] Hartford is the historic international 
center of the insurance industry, with companies such as Aetna, Conning 
& Company, The Hartford, The Phoenix Companies, UnitedHealthcare and Hartford 
Steam Boiler based in the city, and companies such as Travelers and Lincoln 
National Corporation having major operations in the city. The city is also 
home to the corporate headquarters of U.S. Fire Arms and United Technologies. 
Aetna and the Hartford Financial Services Group, both Fortune 100 companies, 
are headquartered in Hartford. Travelers Insurance has its largest national 
employment center and historical headquarters in the city. CIGNA insurance 
is headquartered in the region with a presence in Hartford and its suburb 
Bloomfield. United Health Insurance has a significant presence in the city.[65] 
At the same time, many companies have moved to or expanded in the central 
business district and surrounding neighborhoods. Aetna announced mid-decade 
that by 2010 it would move nearly 3,500 employees from its Middletown, 
Connecticut offices to its corporate headquarters in the Asylum Hill section 
of the city. Travelers recently expanded its operations at several downtown 
locations. In 2008, Sovereign Bank consolidated two bank branches as well 
as its regional headquarters in a nineteenth-century palazzo on Asylum 
Street. In 2009, Northeast Utilities, a Fortune 500 company and New England's 
largest energy utility, announced it would establish its corporate headquarters 
downtown. Other recent entrants into the downtown market include GlobeOp 
Financial Services and specialty insurance broker S.H. Smith. CareCentrix, 
a patient home healthcare management company, is moving into downtown from 
East Hartford, where it will add over 200 jobs within the next few years.[citation 
needed] Hartford is a center for medical care, research, and education. 
Within Hartford itself the city includes Hartford Hospital, The Institute 
of Living, Connecticut Children's Medical Center, and Saint Francis Hospital 
& Medical Center (which merged in 1990 with Mount Sinai Hospital). After 
rising during the Great Recession to over 9% during 2010, unemployment 
in Connecticut had fallen by December 2014 to 6.4%, .6 above the national 
average of 5.8%.[66] The daily Hartford Courant newspaper is the country's 
oldest continuously published newspaper, founded in 1764. A weekly newspaper, 
owned by the same company that owns the Courant, the Hartford Advocate, 
also serves Hartford and the surrounding area, as does the Hartford Business 
Journal ("Greater Hartford's Business Weekly") and the weekly Hartford 
News. The Hartford region is also served by several magazines. Among the 
local publications are: Hartford Magazine,[67] a monthly lifestyle magazine 
serving Greater Hartford; CT Cottages & Gardens,[68] Connecticut Business,[69] 
a glossy monthly serving all of Connecticut; and Home Living CT,[70] a 
home and garden magazine published five times a year and distributed statewide. 
Several television and radio stations are based in Hartford, including 
Connecticut Public Television, which is headquartered in Hartford. In addition 
to Connecticut Public Television, Hartford's major television stations 
include WFSB (CBS), WTNH (ABC), WVIT (NBC O&O), WTIC-TV (Fox), WCCT-TV 
(The CW), and WCTX (MyNetworkTV). These stations serve the Hartford/New 
Haven market, which is the 29th largest media market in the U.S. See also: 
List of newspapers in Connecticut in the 18th-century: Hartford Hartford 
houses several world-class institutions such as Trinity College. Other 
notable institutions include Capital Community College (located Downtown 
in the old G. Fox Department Store building on Main Street), the University 
of Connecticut School of Business (also Downtown), the Hartford Seminary 
(in the West End), the University of Connecticut School of Law (also in 
the West End) and Rensselaer at Hartford (a Downtown branch campus of Rensselaer 
Polytechnic Institute). University of Saint Joseph opened its school of 
pharmacy in the downtown area in 2011.[71] The University of Hartford features 
several cultural institutions: the Joseloff Gallery, the Renee Samuels 
Center, and the Mort and Irma Handel Performing Arts center. The "U of 
H" campus is co-located in the city's Blue Hills neighborhood and in neighboring 
towns West Hartford and Bloomfield. Hartford is served by the Hartford 
Public Schools. Hartford Public High School, the nation's second-oldest 
high school, is located in the Asylum Hill neighborhood of Hartford. The 
city is also home to Bulkeley High School on Wethersfield Avenue, Global 
Communications Academy on Greenfield Avenue, Weaver High School on Granby 
Street, and Sport Medical and Sciences Academy on Huyshope Avenue. In addition, 
Hartford contains The Learning Corridor, which is home to the Montessori 
Magnet School, Hartford Magnet Middle School, Greater Harford Academy of 
Math and Science, and the Greater Hartford Academy of the Arts. One of 
the technical high schools in the Connecticut Technical High School System, 
A.I. Prince Technical High School, also calls the city home. The Classical 
Magnet School is one of the many Hartford Magnet Schools. The city's high 
school graduation rate reached 71 percent in 2013, according to the state 
Department of Education.[72] Hartford is also home to Watkinson School, 
a private coeducational day school, and Grace S. Webb School, a special 
education school. Catholic schools are administered by the Roman Catholic 
Archdiocese of Hartford. The following Catholic Schools are administered 
by the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Hartford: I-84, (Formerly I-86) which 
runs from Scranton, to its intersection with I-90 in Sturbridge, just over 
the Massachusetts border, and I-91, which runs from New Haven along the 
Connecticut River ultimately to Canada, intersect in downtown Hartford. 
In addition to I-84 and I-91, two other highways service the city: Route 
2, an expressway that runs from downtown Hartford to Westerly, passing 
through Norwich and past Foxwoods Resort Casino; and the Wilbur Cross Highway 
portion of Route 15 that skirts the southeastern part of the city near 
Brainard Airport. A short connector known as the Conlin–Whitehead Highway 
also provides direct access from I-91 to the Capitol Area of downtown Hartford. 
Hartford experiences heavy traffic as a result of its substantial suburban 
population (nearly 10 times that of the actual city). As a result, thousands 
of people travel on area highways at the start and end of each workday. 
I-84 experiences traffic from Farmington through Hartford and into East 
Hartford and Manchester during the rush hour. Several major surface arteries 
also run through the city. Albany Avenue (Route 44) runs westward through 
the northern part of West Hartford to the Farmington Valley and the hills 
of northern Litchfield County and into New York, and eastward towards Putnam 
and into Rhode Island. Blue Hills Avenue (Route 187) runs north from Albany 
Avenue toward Bloomfield and East Granby. Main Street (Route 159) heads 
north through Windsor towards the western suburbs of Springfield, Massachusetts. 
Wethersfield Avenue (Route 99) heads south through Wethersfield towards 
Middletown. Maple Avenue heads south-southwest, becoming the Berlin Turnpike 
in Wethersfield and Newington. Farmington Avenue heads west through West 
Hartford Center and Farmington towards Torrington. The city's dependence 
on railroads has decreased since the construction of Interstate 91 and 
Interstate 84 through the city center. However, Hartford Union Station 
at One Union Place still operates a significant schedule. Amtrak provides 
service from Hartford to Vermont, via Springfield, (and from there to points 
west, e.g. to Chicago, or east through the western suburbs of Boston), 
and southward to New Haven, with connections to New York, Boston, Providence, 
and Washington DC. The station also serves numerous bus companies because 
of Hartford's mid-way location on the New York to Boston route.[73] As 
of late 2015, there are plans to create a commuter rail service connecting 
New Haven to Springfield via Hartford. Called the Hartford Line, it will 
stop at stations in communities along I-91. It will use the rail line currently 
used by Amtrak, which was formerly part of the New York, New Haven and 
Hartford Railroad system. The commuter rail line is anticipated to open 
in January 2018, and is currently under construction.[74] Bradley International 
Airport, in Windsor Locks, Connecticut, is about halfway between Hartford 
and Springfield, Massachusetts. It features over 150 daily departures to 
over 30 destinations on nine airlines. Connecticut Transit's 30-Bradley 
Flyer route provides semi-express bus service between Bradley International 
Airport and downtown Hartford for a low local bus fare (the one-way fare 
is $1.50). The Bradley Flyer provides direct service to the Connecticut 
Convention Center, Union Station, and other downtown Hartford points of 
interest. Other airports serving the Hartford area include:[75] Connecticut 
Transit (CTtransit) is owned by the Connecticut Department of Transportation. 
The Hartford Division of CTtransit operates local and commuter bus service 
within the city and the surrounding area. Hartford's Downtown Area Shuttle 
(DASH) bus route is a free downtown circulator. Additionally, all city 
buses are equipped with bike racks.[76] In March 2015, CTfastrak, Connecticut's 
first bus rapid transit system, opened, providing a separated right-of-way 
between Hartford and New Britain. In addition, express bus services travel 
from downtown Hartford and Waterbury, servicing intermediate suburban communities 
like Southington and Cheshire, providing reliable public transportation 
between these communities for the first time. CTfastrak consists of 10 
stations along the dedicated New Britain to Hartford busway, as well as 
a downtown loop serving Union Station and other downtown landmarks. Amenities 
include high-level station platforms, on-board wi-fi, ticket machines for 
pre-boarding fare collection, and real-time arrival information at stations. 
Interstate bus service is provided by Peter Pan Bus, Greyhound Bus and 
Megabus. Chinatown bus lines provide low-cost bus service between Hartford 
and their New York and Boston hubs. In addition, there are buses for connections 
to smaller cities in the state. The main bus station is located on the 
ground floor of the transport center at Hartford Union Station at One Union 
Place, serving Peter Pan Bus and Greyhound Bus customers. All Megabus arrivals 
and departures are at the corner of Columbus Boulevard and Talcott Street 
on the opposite side of downtown. A bicycle route runs through the center 
of Hartford. This route is a small piece of the large eastern bicycle route 
– the East Coast Greenway (ECG). The 3,000-mile (4,800 km) ECG runs from 
Calais, Maine to the Florida Keys. The route is intended to be off road, 
but some sections are currently on-road. The section through Hartford is 
right through the middle of Bushnell Park. There are designated bicycle 
lanes on several roads including Capitol Avenue, Zion Street, Scarborough 
Lane, Whitney, and South Whitney. The Hartford Wolf Pack of the American 
Hockey League plays ice hockey at the XL Center in downtown Hartford. The 
XL Center also hosts larger-profile games for both the men's and women's 
basketball teams of the UConn Huskies. Other UConn home games are played 
at Gampel Pavilion located on the university's campus in Storrs. The New 
Britain Rock Cats, the Double-A affiliate of the Colorado Rockies, will 
be moving to Hartford in 2016 to become the Hartford Yard Goats. The city 
will build a new baseball stadium in time for opening day of that season, 
with a seating capacity of at least 10,000 spectators. The move was made 
in an effort to keep the team from leaving the state for nearby Springfield, 
Massachusetts.[79] Hartford became the home of the WHA's New England Whalers 
in 1975 after the club moved from Boston, one of four WHA teams that joined 
the NHL in 1979. The city was home to the NHL's Hartford Whalers from 1979 
to 1997, before the team relocated to Raleigh, North Carolina and became 
the Carolina Hurricanes. The Boston Celtics played various home games per 
year in Hartford from 1975 until 1995, when they opened the new TD Garden. 
Hartford was also home to the Hartford Hellions of the Major Indoor Soccer 
League (MISL). Hartford also used to have a National League baseball team, 
the Hartford Dark Blues, back in the 1870s, and had an NFL team, the Hartford 
Blues, for three seasons in the 1920s. Hartford has been home to many historically 
significant people such as dictionary author Noah Webster (1758–1843); 
inventor Sam Colt (1814–62); and American financier and industrialist J.P. 
Morgan (1837–1913). Some of America's most famous authors lived in Hartford, 
including Mark Twain (1835–1910), who moved to the city in 1874; his next-door 
neighbor at Nook Farm, Harriet Beecher Stowe (1811–96); poet Wallace Stevens 
(1879–1955), an insurance executive in the city; and World War II correspondent 
Lyn Crost (1915–1997). More recently Dominick Dunne (1925–2009), John Gregory 
Dunne (1932–2003), and Suzanne Collins (born 1962) have resided in Hartford. 
Many broadcasters have called Hartford home over the years. Howard Stern 
worked mornings at WCCC-FM in 1979, meeting local resident and sidekick 
Fred Norris there. Both Bill O'Reilly and Gayle King worked at WFSB. Twisted 
Sister lead vocalist Dee Snider also did a morning show on WMRQ radio in 
the mid-2000s. MSNBC "Morning Joe" co-host Mika Brzezinski was a reporter 
for years on WTIC ch 61 and WFSB. In the late 1980s and early 1990s, former 
NFLer Beasley Reece was sports director for WVIT, also a one-time home 
to ESPN's Chris Berman. Actors and others in the entertainment business 
from Hartford include Academy Award–winning film icon Katharine Hepburn, 
actors Linda Evans, Eriq La Salle, Diane Venora, William Gillette, Charles 
Nelson Reilly, and TV producer and writer Norman Lear. Marvel Comics artist 
George Tuska was born in and spent the formative years of his life in Hartford. 
In the field of music residents include singer Sophie Tucker (1884–1966), 
"last of the red-hot mamas." Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Members Gene Pitney, 
Mike Carabello (of Santana); Mark McGrath; bass guitarist Doug Wimbish 
of Living Colour; Cindy Blackman (drummer for Lenny Kravitz); jazz alto 
saxophonist Jackie McLean;[85] concert violinist Elmar Oliveira (b. 1950); 
was born in the city; and brothers Jeff Porcaro, Mike Porcaro and Steve 
Porcaro (of the group Toto). Composer and multi-instrumentalist Dawn LaRue 
(b. 1962) from AOL Music is also from Hartford. Former Cleveland Browns 
head coach Eric Mangini is from Hartford. Former NHL player Craig Janney 
and current player Nick Bonino were born in Hartford. Other sports stars 
include NBA players Marcus Camby, Rick Mahorn, Johnny Egan, and Michael 
Adams, as well as NFL kicker John Carney, Dwight Freeney, Tubucky Jones 
and former NFLer Eugene Robinson. Hartford features numerous sister cities. 
They include:[86] Nation: States: Territories: Coordinates: 41°45′46″N 
