Havana Sugar Kings (1954–1960) The Havana Sugar Kings were a Cuban-based 
minor league baseball team that played in the Class AAA International League 
from 1954 to 1960. They were affiliated with Major League Baseball's Cincinnati 
Reds, and their home stadium was El Gran Estadio del Cerro (sometimes called 
Gran Stadium) in Havana, Cuba. The Sugar Kings began life in 1946 as the 
Havana Cubans, founded by Washington Senators scout Joe Cambria. They played 
in the old Class C (later Class B) Florida International League. In 1954, 
Roberto "Bobby" Maduro bought the team, moved it to the International League, 
and renamed it the Sugar Kings. Several talented Cuban players and other 
Latinos who eventually made it to the Major Leagues donned the Sugar Kings 
uniform, including Luis Arroyo, Pompeyo Davalillo, Tony González, Cookie 
Rojas, Elio Chacón, Danny Morejón, Preston Gómez, Leo Cárdenas, and Mike 
Cuellar. Fidel Castro was a long-time baseball fan and often attended Sugar 
Kings games at Gran Stadium. In fact, Castro had been a pitcher during 
his days at the University of Havana. Soon after taking power, he pledged 
to underwrite the Sugar Kings' debts. In an exhibition contest between 
his own pickup squad Los Barbudos ("The Bearded Ones") and a military police 
team prior to a game between the Sugar Kings and the Rochester Red Wings 
on July 24, 1959, Castro pitched two innings. He ended up with two strikeouts. 
The following day, another game between the Red Wings and Sugar Kings began 
late and continued into the night. Castro's supporters were in full force 
in the stands, and when midnight struck, they erupted into a torrent of 
lights, music, flag-waving, and even gunfire in a raucous celebration of 
the anniversary of the 26th of July Movement. The random gunfire continued, 
and Rochester third base coach Frank Verdi and Havana shortstop Leo Cárdenas 
ended up with flesh wounds. The Red Wings' manager, Cot Deal, fearing for 
his team's safety, decided to pull Rochester from the game, and League 
officials cancelled the rest of the Sugar Kings' homestand. Undeterred, 
the Sugar Kings — led by future major league manager Preston Gómez — eventually 
finished third in the IL standings, but upset Columbus and Richmond to 
win the League championship. They then ended up winning the 1959 Little 
World Series in seven games over the Minneapolis Millers of the American 
Association. However, the next year, Castro nationalized all U.S.-owned 
enterprises in Cuba, and on July 8, 1960, Baseball Commissioner Ford Frick 
(under pressure from U.S. Secretary of State Christian Herter) announced 
that the Sugar Kings would be moving to Jersey City, New Jersey and be 
renamed the Jersey City Jerseys. The Jerseys would last through the 1961 
season before folding due to poor attendance. The franchise was then sold 
to a group from Jacksonville, Florida and renamed the Jacksonville Suns, 
who began play in the International League in 1962; that franchise would 
move to Portsmouth, Virginia in 1969 as the Tidewater Tides, and remains 
in that region as the Norfolk Tides. In February 1987 the Miami City Commission 
voted unanimously in favor of the renaming Miami Stadium in honor to Bobby 
Maduro who had migrated to USA. The ballpark became known officially as 
Bobby Maduro Miami Stadium one month later. In the ceremony Maduro's widow 
Marta said to herself, "Gordo (fat one), they finally know who you are." 
The Sugar Kings won the Governors' Cup, the championship of the IL, once. 
