Havana (/həˈvænə/; Spanish: La Habana, [la aˈβana] ( listen)) is the capital 
city, largest city, province, major port, and leading commercial centre 
of Cuba.[3] The city proper has a population of 2.1 million inhabitants,[2][3] 
and it spans a total of 728.26 km2 (281.18 sq mi) – making it the largest 
city by area, the most populous city, and the third largest metropolitan 
area in the Caribbean region.[2][4] The city extends mostly westward and 
southward from the bay, which is entered through a narrow inlet and which 
divides into three main harbours: Marimelena, Guanabacoa and Atarés. The 
sluggish Almendares River traverses the city from south to north, entering 
the Straits of Florida a few miles west of the bay.[5] The city of Havana 
was founded by the Spanish in the 16th century and due to its strategic 
location it served as a springboard for the Spanish conquest of the continent 
becoming a stopping point for the treasure-laden Spanish galleons on the 
crossing between the New World and the Old World. King Philip II of Spain 
granted Havana the title of City in 1592.[6] Walls as well as forts were 
built to protect the old city.[7] The sinking of the U.S. battleship Maine 
in Havana's harbor in 1898 was the immediate cause of the Spanish–American 
War.[8] Contemporary Havana can essentially be described as three cities 
in one: Old Havana, Vedado and the newer suburban districts. The city is 
the center of the Cuban government, and home to various ministries, headquarters 
of businesses and over 90 diplomatic offices.[9] The current mayor is Marta 
Hernández from the Communist Party of Cuba (PCC).[10] In 2009, the city/province 
had the 3rd highest income in the country.[11] The city attracts over a 
million tourists annually,[12] the Official Census for Havana reports that 
in 2010 the city was visited by 1,176,627 international tourists,[12] a 
20.0% increase from 2005. The historic centre was declared a UNESCO World 
Heritage Site in 1982.[13] The city is also noted for its history, culture, 
architecture and monuments.[14] As typical of Cuba, Havana also features 
a tropical climate.[15] In May 2015, Havana was officially recognized as 
one of the New7Wonders Cities together with Vigan, Doha, La Paz, Durban, 
Beirut, and Kuala Lumpur.[16] Most native settlements became the site of 
Spanish colonial cities retaining their original Taíno names; the name 
Habana could be based on the name of a local Taíno chief Habaguanex.[citation 
needed] An alternate theory is that Habana is derived from the Middle Dutch 
word havene, referring to a harbour, etymologically related to the English 
word haven.[citation needed] Conquistador Diego Velázquez de Cuéllar founded 
Havana on August 25, 1515, on the southern coast of the island, near the 
present town of Surgidero de Batabanó, or more likely on the banks of the 
Mayabeque River close to Playa Mayabeque. All attempts to found a city 
on Cuba's south coast failed. However, an early map of Cuba drawn in 1514 
places the town at the mouth of this river.[17][18] Between 1514 and 1519 
the Spanish established at least two different settlements on the north 
coast, one of them in La Chorrera, today in the neighborhoods of Vedado 
and Miramar, next to the Almendares River. The town that became Havana 
finally originated adjacent to what was then called Puerto de Carenas (literally, 
"Careening Bay"), in 1519. The quality of this natural bay, which now hosts 
Havana's harbor, warranted this change of location. Pánfilo de Narváez 
gave Havana — the sixth town founded by the Spanish on Cuba — its name: 
San Cristóbal de la Habana. The name combines San Cristóbal, patron saint 
of Havana. Shortly after the founding of Cuba's first cities, the island 
served as little more than a base for the Conquista of other lands. Havana 
began as a trading port, and suffered regular attacks by buccaneers, pirates, 
and French corsairs. The first attack and resultant burning of the city 
was by the French corsair Jacques de Sores in 1555. Such attacks convinced 
the Spanish Crown to fund the construction of the first fortresses in the 
main cities — not only to counteract the pirates and corsairs, but also 
to exert more control over commerce with the West Indies, and to limit 
the extensive contrabando (black market) that had arisen due to the trade 
restrictions imposed by the Casa de Contratación of Seville (the crown-controlled 
trading house that held a monopoly on New World trade). Ships from all 
over the New World carried products first to Havana, in order to be taken 
by the fleet to Spain. The thousands of ships gathered in the city's bay 
also fueled Havana's agriculture and manufacture, since they had to be 
supplied with food, water, and other products needed to traverse the ocean. 
On December 20, 1592, King Philip II of Spain granted Havana the title 
of City. Later on, the city would be officially designated as "Key to the 
New World and Rampart of the West Indies" by the Spanish Crown. In the 
meantime, efforts to build or improve the defensive infrastructures of 
the city continued. Havana expanded greatly in the 17th century. New buildings 
were constructed from the most abundant materials of the island, mainly 
wood, combining various Iberian architectural styles, as well as borrowing 
profusely from Canarian characteristics. In 1649 a very fatal epidemic 
brought from Cartagena in Colombia, affected a third of the population 
of Havana. By the middle of the 18th century Havana had more than seventy 
thousand inhabitants, and was the third-largest city in the Americas, ranking 
behind Lima and Mexico City but ahead of Boston and New York.[19] During 
the 18th century Havana was the most important of the Spanish ports because 
it had facilities where ships could be refitted and, by 1740, it had become 
Spain's largest and most active shipyard and only drydock in the New World.[20] 
The city was captured by the British during the Seven Years' War. The episode 
began on June 6, 1762, when at dawn, a British fleet, comprising more than 
50 ships and a combined force of over 11,000 men of the Royal Navy and 
Army, sailed into Cuban waters and made an amphibious landing east of Havana.[21] 
The British immediately opened up trade with their North American and Caribbean 
colonies, causing a rapid transformation of Cuban society. Less than a 
year after Havana was seized, the Peace of Paris was signed by the three 
warring powers thus ending the Seven Years' War. The treaty gave Britain 
Florida in exchange for the return of the city of Havana on to Spain.[22] 
After regaining the city, the Spanish transformed Havana into the most 
heavily fortified city in the Americas. Construction began on what was 
to become the Fortress of San Carlos de la Cabaña, the third biggest Spanish 
fortification in the New World after Fort San Cristobal (the biggest) and 
Fort San Felipe del Morro both in San Juan, Puerto Rico. On January 15, 
1796, the remains of Christopher Columbus were transported to the island 
from Santo Domingo. They rested here until 1898, when they were transferred 
to Seville's Cathedral, after Spain's loss of Cuba. As trade between Caribbean 
and North American states increased in the early 19th century, Havana became 
a flourishing and fashionable city. Havana's theaters featured the most 
distinguished actors of the age, and prosperity among the burgeoning middle-class 
led to expensive new classical mansions being erected. During this period 
Havana became known as the Paris of the Antilles. In 1837, the first railroad 
was constructed, a 51 km (32 mi) stretch between Havana and Bejucal, which 
was used for transporting sugar from the valley of Guinness to the harbor. 
With this, Cuba became the fifth country in the world to have a railroad, 
and the first Spanish-speaking country. Throughout the century, Havana 
was enriched by the construction of additional cultural facilities, such 
as the Tacon Teatre, one of the most luxurious in the world. The fact that 
slavery was legal in Cuba until 1886 led to Southern American interest, 
including a plan by the Knights of the Golden Circle to create a 'Golden 
Circle' with a 1200 mile-radius centered on Havana. After the Confederate 
States of America were defeated in the American Civil War in 1865, many 
former slaveholders continued to run plantations by moving to Havana. In 
1863, the city walls were knocked down so that the metropolis could be 
enlarged. At the end of the 19th century, Havana witnessed the final moments 
of Spanish colonialism in the Americas. The 20th century began with Cuba, 
and therefore Havana, under occupation by the United States.[23] The US 
occupation officially ended when Tomás Estrada Palma, first president of 
Cuba, took office on 20 May 1902. During the Republican Period, from 1902 
to 1959, the city saw a new era of development. Cuba recovered from the 
devastation of war to become a well-off country, with the third largest 
middle class in the hemisphere. Apartment buildings to accommodate the 
new middle class, as well as mansions for the Cuban tycoons, were built 
at a fast pace. Numerous luxury hotels, casinos and nightclubs were constructed 
during the 1930s to serve Havana's burgeoning tourist industry. In the 
1930s, organized crime characters were not unaware of Havana's nightclub 
and casino life, and they made their inroads in the city. Santo Trafficante, 
Jr. took the roulette wheel at the Sans Souci Casino, Meyer Lansky directed 
the Hotel Habana Riviera, with Lucky Luciano at the Hotel Nacional Casino. 
At the time, Havana became an exotic capital of appeal and numerous activities 
ranging from marinas, grand prix car racing, musical shows and parks. Havana 
achieved the title of being the Latin American city with the biggest middle 
class population per-capita, simultaneously accompanied by gambling and 
corruption where gangsters and stars were known to mix socially. During 
this era, Havana was generally producing more revenue than Las Vegas, Nevada. 
In 1958, about 300,000 American tourists visited the city. After the revolution 
of 1959, the new régime under Fidel Castro promised to improve social services, 
public housing, and official buildings. Nevertheless, after Castro's abrupt 
expropriation of all private property and industry (May 1959 onwards) under 
a strong communist model backed by the Soviet Union followed by the U.S. 
embargo, shortages that affected Cuba in general hit Havana especially 
hard. By 1966-1968, the Cuban government had nationalized all privately 
owned business entities in Cuba, down to "certain kinds of small retail 
forms of commerce" (law No. 1076[24]). A severe economic downturn occurred 
after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. Soviet subsidies ended, 
representing billions of dollars which the Soviet Union had given the Cuban 
government. Many believed that Havana's Soviet-backed régime would soon 
vanish, as happened to the Soviet satellite states of Eastern Europe. However, 
contrary to events in Europe, Havana's communist régime continued during 
the 1990s. After many years of prohibition, the communist government increasingly 
turned to tourism for new financial revenue, and has allowed foreign investors 
to build new hotels and develop the hospitality industry. In Old Havana, 
effort has also gone into rebuilding for tourist purposes, and a number 
of streets and squares have been rehabilitated.[25] But Old Havana is a 
large city, and the restoration efforts concentrate in all on less than 
10% of its area. Havana Stock Exchange c. 1920 Capitolio Nacional in 1929 
Museum of Fine Arts at the Palace of the Asturian c.1920 Grand National 
Theatre at the Palace of the Galician c.1920 Havana lies on the northern 
coast of Cuba, south of the Florida Keys, where the Gulf of Mexico joins 
the Atlantic Ocean. The city extends mostly westward and southward from 
the bay, which is entered through a narrow inlet and which divides into 
three main harbours: Marimelena, Guanabacoa, and Atarés. The sluggish Almendares 
River traverses the city from south to north, entering the Straits of Florida 
a few miles west of the bay. The low hills on which the city lies rise 
gently from the deep blue waters of the straits. A noteworthy elevation 
is the 200-foot-high (60-metre) limestone ridge that slopes up from the 
east and culminates in the heights of La Cabaña and El Morro, the sites 
of colonial fortifications overlooking the eastern bay. Another notable 
rise is the hill to the west that is occupied by the University of Havana 
and the Prince's Castle. Outside the city, higher hills rise on the west 
and east. Havana, like much of Cuba, has a tropical climate that is tempered 
by the island's position in the belt of the trade winds and by the warm 
offshore currents. Under the Köppen climate classification, Havana has 
a tropical savanna climate. Average temperatures range from 22 °C (72 °F) 
in January and February to 28 °C (82 °F) in August. The temperature seldom 
drops below 10 °C (50 °F). The lowest temperature was 1 °C (34 °F) in Santiago 
de Las Vegas, Boyeros. The lowest recorded temperature in Cuba was 32 °F 
(0 °C) in Bainoa, Mayabeque Province (before 2011 the eastern part of Havana 
province). Rainfall is heaviest in June and October and lightest from December 
through April, averaging 1,200 mm (47 in) annually. Hurricanes occasionally 
strike the island, but they ordinarily hit the south coast,[citation needed] 
and damage in Havana has been less than elsewhere in the country. The table 
below lists temperature averages: 73 °F 73 °F 75 °F 79 °F 81 °F 82 °F 82 °F 
82 °F 82 °F 81 °F 79 °F 75 °F Contemporary Havana can essentially be described 
as three cities in one: Old Havana, Vedado, and the newer suburban districts.[citation 
needed] Old Havana, with its narrow streets and overhanging balconies, 
is the traditional centre of part of Havana's commerce, industry, and entertainment, 
as well as being a residential area. To the north and west a newer section, 
centred on the uptown area known as Vedado, has become the rival of Old 
Havana for commercial activity and nightlife. Centro Habana, sometimes 
described as part of Vedado,[citation needed] is mainly a shopping district 
that lies between Vedado and Old Havana. The Capitolio Nacional building 
marks the beginning of Centro Habana, a working-class neighborhood.[28] 
Barrio Chino and the Real Fabrica de Tabacos Partagás, one of Cuba's oldest 
cigar factories is located in the area.[29] A third Havana is that of the 
more affluent residential and industrial districts that spread out mostly 
to the west. Among these is Marianao, one of the newer parts of the city, 
dating mainly from the 1920s. Some of the suburban exclusivity was lost 
after the revolution, many of the suburban homes having been nationalized 
by the Cuban government to serve as schools, hospitals, and government 
offices. Several private country clubs were converted to public recreational 
centres. Miramar, located west of Vedado along the coast, remains Havana's 
exclusive area; mansions, foreign embassies, diplomatic residences, upscale 
shops, and facilities for wealthy foreigners are common in the area.[30] 
The International School of Havana is located in the Miramar neighborhood. 
In the 1980s many parts of Old Havana, including the Plaza de Armas, became 
part of a projected 35-year multimillion-dollar restoration project, for 
Cubans to appreciate their past and boost tourism. In the past ten years, 
with the assistance of foreign aid and under the support of local city 
historian Eusebio Leal Spengler, large parts of Habana Vieja have been 
renovated. The city is moving forward with their renovations, with most 
of the major plazas (Plaza Vieja, Plaza de la Catedral, Plaza de San Francisco 
and Plaza de Armas) and major tourist streets (Obispo and Mercaderes) near 
completion. The city is divided into 15 municipalities[31] – or boroughs, 
which are further subdivided into 105 wards[32] (consejos populares). (Numbers 
refer to map). Due to Havana's almost five hundred-year existence, the 
city boasts some of the most diverse styles of architecture in the world, 
from castles built in the late 16th century to modernist present-day high-rises. 
Neoclassism was introduced into the city in the 1840s, at the time including 
Gas public lighting in 1848 and the railroad in 1837. In the second half 
of the 18th century, sugar and coffee production increased rapidly, which 
became essential in the development of Havana's most prominent architectural 
style. Many wealthy Habaneros took their inspiration from the French; this 
can be seen within the interiors of upper class houses such as the Aldama 
Palace built in 1844. This is considered the most important neoclassical 
residential building in Cuba and typifies the design of many houses of 
this period with portales of neoclassical columns facing open spaces or 
courtyards. In 1925 Jean-Claude Nicolas Forestier, the head of urban planning 
in Paris moved to Havana for five years to collaborate with architects 
and landscape designers. In the master planning of the city his aim was 
to create a harmonic balance between the classical built form and the tropical 
landscape. He embraced and connected the city's road networks while accentuating 
prominent landmarks. His influence has left a huge mark on Havana although 
many of his ideas were cut short by the great depression in 1929. During 
the first decades of the 20th century Havana expanded more rapidly than 
at any time during its history. Great wealth prompted architectural styles 
to be influenced from abroad. The peak of Neoclassicism came with the construction 
of the Vedado district (begun in 1859). This whole neighborhood is littered 
with set back well-proportioned buildings. Riches were brought from the 
colonialists into and through Havana as it was a key transshipment point 
between the new world and old world. As a result, Havana was the most heavily 
fortified city in the Americas. Most examples of early architecture can 
be seen in military fortifications such as La Fortaleza de San Carlos de 
la Cabana (1558–1577) designed by Battista Antonelli and the Castillo del 
Morro (1589–1630). This sits at the entrance of Havana Bay and provides 
an insight into the supremacy and wealth at that time. Old Havana was also 
protected by a defensive wall begun in 1674 but had already overgrown its 
boundaries when it was completed in 1767, becoming the new neighbourhood 
of Centro Habana. The influence from different styles and cultures can 
be seen in Havana's colonial architecture, with a diverse range of Moorish 
architecture, Spanish, Italian, Greek and Roman. The San Carlos and San 
Ambrosio Seminary (18th century) is a good example of early Spanish influenced 
architecture. The Havana cathedral (1748–1777) dominating the Plaza de 
la Catedral (1749) is the best example of Cuban Baroque. Surrounding it 
are the former palaces of the Count de Casa-Bayona (1720–1746) Marquis 
de Arcos (1746) and the Marquis de Aguas Claras (1751–1775). The first 
echoes of the Art Deco movement in Havana started in 1927, in the residential 
area of Miramar.[33] The Edificio Bacardi (1930) is thought to be the best 
example of Art-deco architecture in the city and first tall Art Deco building 
as well,[33] followed by the Hotel Nacional de Cuba (1930) and The Lopez 
Serrano building built in 1932 by Ricardo Mira inspired by the Rockefeller 
Center in New York City. The year 1928 marked the beginning of the reaction 
against the Spanish Renaissance style architecture, Art Deco started in 
the lush and wealthy suburbs of Miramar, Marianao, and Vedado.[33] The 
city's eclectic architectural sights begins in Centro Habana.[34] The Central 
Railway Terminal (1912), and the Museum of the Revolution (1920) are example 
of Eclectic architecture. Many high-rise office buildings, and apartment 
complexes, along with some hotels built in the 1950s dramatically altered 
the skyline. Modernism, therefore, transformed much of the city and should 
be noted for its individual buildings of high quality rather than its larger 
key buildings. Examples of the latter are Habana Libre (1958), which before 
the revolution was the Havana Hilton Hotel and La Rampa movie theater (1955). 
Famous architects such as Walter Gropius, Richard Neutra and Oscar Niemeyer 
all passed through the city,[35] while strong influences can be seen in 
Havana at this time from Le Corbusier and Ludwig Mies van der Rohe.[36] 
The Edificio Focsa (1956) represents Havana's economic dominance at the 
time. This 35-story complex was conceived and based on Corbusian ideas 
of a self-contained city within a city. It contained 400 apartments, garages, 
a school, a supermarket, and restaurant on the top floor. This was the 
tallest concrete structure in the world at the time (using no steel frame) 
and the ultimate symbol of luxury and excess. The Havana Riviera Hotel 
(1957) designed by Irving Feldman, a twenty-one-story edifice, when it 
opened, the Riviera was the largest purpose-built casino-hotel in Cuba 
or anywhere in the world, outside Las Vegas (the Havana Hilton (1958) surpassed 
its size a year later). Havana, by far the leading cultural centre of the 
country, offers a wide variety of features that range from museums, palaces, 
public squares, avenues, churches, fortresses (including the largest fortified 
complex in the Americas dating from the 16th through 18th centuries), ballet 
and from art and musical festivals to exhibitions of technology. The restoration 
of Old Havana offered a number of new attractions, including a museum to 
house relics of the Cuban revolution. The government placed special emphasis 
on cultural activities, many of which are free or involve only a minimal 
charge. Old Havana, (La Habana Vieja in Spanish), contains the core of 
the original city of Havana, with more than 2,000 hectares it exhibits 
almost all the Western architectural styles seen in the New World. La Habana 
Vieja was founded by the Spanish in 1519 in the natural harbor of the Bay 
of Havana. It became a stopping point for the treasure laden Spanish Galleons 
on the crossing between the New World and the Old World. In the 17th century 
it was one of the main shipbuilding centers. The city was built in baroque 
and neoclassic style. Many buildings have fallen in ruin but a number are 
being restored. The narrow streets of Old Havana contain many buildings, 
accounting for perhaps as many as one-third of the approximately 3,000 
buildings found in Old Havana.[38] Old Havana is the ancient city formed 
from the port, the official center and the Plaza de Armas. Alejo Carpentier 
called Old Havana the place "de las columnas" (of the columns). The Cuban 
government is taking many steps to preserve and to restore Old Havana, 
through the Office of the city historian, directed by Eusebio Leal.[39] 
Old Havana and its fortifications were added to the UNESCO World Heritage 
List in 1982. The beauty of Old Havana City attracts millions of tourists 
each year who enjoy its rich old culture and folk music. [40] In spring 
2015, the largest open-air art exhibition ever in Cuba took in front of 
the basilica on the Plaza San Francisco de Asis: Over 8 weeks the United 
Buddy Bears visited Havana.[41] United Buddy Bears exhibitions are part 
of a non-commercial and non-profit project. The main aim is to promote 
the idea of tolerance and mutual understanding between countries, cultures 
and religions and to communicate a vision of a future peaceful world.[42] 
Barrio Chino was once Latin America's largest and most vibrant Chinese 
community,[43][44][45] incorporated into the city by the early part of 
the 20th century. Hundreds of thousands of Chinese workers were brought 
in by Spanish settlers from Guangdong, Fujian, Hong Kong, and Macau via 
Manila, Philippines[46] starting in the mid-19th century to replace or 
work alongside African slaves.[47] After completing 8-year contracts, many 
Chinese immigrants settled permanently in Havana. The first 206 Chinese-born 
arrived in Havana on June 3, 1847.[48] The neighborhood was booming with 
Chinese restaurants, laundries, banks, pharmacies, theaters and several 
Chinese-language newspapers, the neighborhood comprised 44 square blocks 
during its prime.[43][47] The heart of Barrio Chino is on el Cuchillo de 
Zanja (or The Zanja Canal). The strip is a pedestrian-only street adorned 
with many red lanterns, dancing red paper dragons and other Chinese cultural 
designs, there is a great number of restaurants that serve a full spectrum 
of Chinese dishes – unfortunately that 'spectrum' is said by many[who?] 
not to be related to real Chinese cuisine. The district has two paifang, 
a large one located on Calle Dragones, the People's Republic of China donated 
the materials in the late 1990s,[49] it has a well defined written welcoming 
sign in Chinese and Spanish. The smaller arch is located on Zanja strip. 
The Cuban's Chinese boom ended when Fidel Castro's 1959 revolution seized 
private businesses, sending tens of thousands of business-minded Chinese 
fleeing, mainly to the United States. Descendants are now making efforts 
to preserve and revive the culture.[44] The National Museum of Fine Arts 
(Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes) is a Fine Arts museum that exhibits Cuban 
and International art collections. The museum houses one of the largest 
collections of paintings and sculpture from Latin America and is the largest 
in the Caribbean region.[50] Under the Cuban Ministry of Culture, it occupies 
two locations in the vicinity of Havana's Paseo del Prado, these are the 
Palace of Fine Arts, devoted to Cuban art and the Palace of the Asturian 
Center, dedicated to universal art.[51] Its artistic heritage is made up 
of over 45,000 pieces.[52] The Museum of the Revolution (Museo de la Revolución), 
designed in Havana by Cuban architect Carlos Maruri, and the Belgian Paul 
Belau, who came up with an eclectic design, harmoniously combines Spanish, 
French and German architectural elements. The museum was the Presidential 
Palace in the capital; today, its displays and documents outline Cuba's 
history from the beginning of the neo-colonial period. The neo-classical 
mansion of the Countess of Revilla de Camargo, today it is the Museum of 
Decorative Arts (Museo de Artes Decorativas), known as the "small French 
Palace of Havana" built between 1924 and 1927, it was designed in Paris 
inspired in French Renaissance.[53] The museum has been exhibiting more 
than 33,000 works dating from the reigns of Louis XV, Louis XVI, and Napoleon 
III; as well as 16th to 20th century Oriental pieces, among many other 
treasures.[54] The Museum has ten permanent exhibit halls. Among them are 
prominent porcelain articles from the factories in Sèvres and Chantilly, 
France; Meissen, Germany; and Wedgwood, England, as well as Chinese from 
the Qianlong Emperor period and Japanese from the Imari. The furniture 
comes from Stéphane Boudin, Jean Henri Riesener and several others. Several 
museums in Old Havana houses furniture, silverware, pottery, glass and 
other items from the colonial period. One of these is the Palacio de los 
Capitanes Generales, where Spanish governors once lived. The Casa de Africa 
presents another aspect of Cuba's history, it houses a large collection 
of Afro-Cuban religious artifacts. Other museums in the city include Casa 
de los Árabes (House of Arabs) and the Casa de Asia (House of Asia) with 
Middle and Far Eastern collections. Havana's Museo del Automobil has an 
impressive collection of vehicles dating back to a 1905 Cadillac. While 
most museums of Havana are situated in Old Havana, few of them can also 
be found in Vedado. In total, Havana has around 50 museums, including the 
National Museum of Music; the Museum of Dance and Rum; the Cigar Museum; 
the Napoleonic, Colonial and Oricha Museums; the Museum of Anthropology; 
the Ernest Hemingway Museum; the José Martí Monument; the Aircraft Museum 
(Museo del Aire). There are also museums of Natural Sciences, the City, 
Archeology, Gold-and-Silverwork, Perfume, Pharmaceuticals, Sports, Numismatics, 
and Weapons. Facing Havana's Central Park is the baroque Great Theatre 
of Havana, a prominent theatre built in 1837.[55] It is now home of the 
National Ballet of Cuba and the International Ballet Festival of Havana, 
one of the oldest in the New World. The façade of the building is adorned 
with a stone and marble statue. There are also sculptural pieces by Giuseppe 
Moretti,[56] representing allegories depicting benevolence, education, 
music and theatre. The principal theatre is the García Lorca Auditorium, 
with seats for 1,500 and balconies. Glories of its rich history; the Italian 
tenor Enrico Caruso sang, the Russian ballerina Anna Pavlova danced, and 
the French Sarah Bernhardt acted. Other important theatres in the city 
includes the National Theater of Cuba, housed in a huge modern building 
located in Plaza de la Revolucion, decorated with works by Cuban artists. 
The National Theater includes two main theatre stages, the Avellaneda Auditorium 
and the Covarrubias Auditorium, as well as a smaller theatre workshop space 
on the ninth floor. The Karl Marx Theater with its large auditorium have 
a seating capacity of 5,500 spectators, is generally used for concerts 
and other events, it is also one of the venues for the annual Havana Film 
Festival. Banrarra Afro-Cuban dance troupe Cuban dance troupe Payret Cinema 
Ballet Nacional de Cuba performing at the Great Theatre García Lorca Hall 
at the Great Theatre Havana attracts over a million tourists annually,[12] 
the Official Census for Havana reports that in 2010 the city was visited 
by 1,176,627 international tourists,[12] a +20.0% increase from 2005. The 
city has long been a popular attraction for tourists. Between 1915 and 
1930, Havana hosted more tourists than any other location in the Caribbean.[57] 
The influx was due in large part to Cuba's proximity to the United States, 
where restrictive prohibition on alcohol and other pastimes stood in stark 
contrast to the island's traditionally relaxed attitude to leisure pursuits. 
A pamphlet published by E.C. Kropp Co., Milwaukee, WI, between 1921 and 
1939 promoting tourism in Havana, Cuba, can be found in the University 
of Houston Digital Library, Havana, Cuba, The Summer Land of the World, 
Digital Collection. With the deterioration of Cuba – United States relations 
and the imposition of the trade embargo on the island in 1961, tourism 
dropped drastically and did not return to anything close to its pre-revolution 
levels until 1989. The revolutionary government in general, and Fidel Castro 
in particular, initially opposed any considerable development of the tourism 
industry, linking it to the debauchery and criminal activities of times 
past. In the late 1970s, however, Castro changed his stance and, in 1982, 
the Cuban government passed a foreign investment code which opened a number 
of sectors, tourism included, to foreign capital. Through the creation 
of firms open to such foreign investment (such as Cubanacan), Cuba began 
to attract capital for hotel development, managing to increase the number 
of tourists from 130,000 (in 1980) to 326,000 (by the end of that decade). 
Havana has also been a popular health tourism destination for more than 
20 years. Foreign patients travel to Cuba, Havana in particular, for a 
wide range of treatments including eye-surgery, neurological disorders 
such as multiple sclerosis and Parkinsons disease, and orthopaedics. Many 
patients are from Latin America, although medical treatment for retinitis 
pigmentosa, often known as night blindness, has attracted many patients 
from Europe and North America.[58][59] Sight-seeing bus Cruise at the Sierra 
Maestra Terminal Wedding photoshoot in Havana Havana has a diversified 
economy, with traditional sectors, such as manufacturing, construction, 
transportation and communications, and new or revived ones such as biotechnology 
and tourism. The city's economy first developed on the basis of its location, 
which made it one of the early great trade centres in the New World. Sugar 
and a flourishing slave trade first brought riches to the city, and later, 
after independence, it became a renowned resort. Despite efforts by Fidel 
Castro's government to spread Cuba's industrial activity to all parts of 
the island, Havana remains the centre of much of the nation's industry. 
The traditional sugar industry, upon which the island's economy has been 
based for three centuries, is centred elsewhere on the island and controls 
some three-fourths of the export economy. But light manufacturing facilities, 
meat-packing plants, and chemical and pharmaceutical operations are concentrated 
in Havana. Other food-processing industries are also important, along with 
shipbuilding, vehicle manufacturing, production of alcoholic beverages 
(particularly rum), textiles, and tobacco products, particularly the world-famous 
Habanos cigars.[60] Although the harbours of Cienfuegos and Matanzas, in 
particular, have been developed under the revolutionary government, Havana 
remains Cuba's primary port facility; 50% of Cuban imports and exports 
pass through Havana. The port also supports a considerable fishing industry. 
In 2000, nearly 89% of the city's officially recorded labour force worked 
for government-run agencies, institutions or enterprises. Havana, on average, 
has the country's highest incomes and human development indicators. After 
the collapse of the Soviet Union, Cuba re-emphasized tourism as a major 
industry leading to its recovery. Tourism is now Havana and Cuba's primary 
economic source.[61] Havana's economy is still in flux, despite Raul Castro's 
embrace of free enterprise in 2011. Though there was an uptick in small 
businesses in 2011, many have since gone out of business, due to lack of 
business and income on the part of the local residents, whose salaries 
average $20 per month.[62] After the Revolution, Cuba's traditional capitalist 
free-enterprise system was replaced by a heavily socialized economic system. 
In Havana, Cuban-owned businesses and U.S.-owned businesses were nationalized 
and today most businesses operate solely under state control. In Old Havana 
and throughout Vedado there are several small private businesses, such 
as shoe-repair shops or dressmaking facilities. Banking as well is also 
under state control, and the National Bank of Cuba, headquartered in Havana, 
is the control center of the Cuban economy. Its branches in some cases 
occupy buildings that were in pre-revolutionary times the offices of Cuban 
or foreign banks. In the late 1990s Vedado, located along the atlantic 
waterfront, started to represent the principal commercial area. It was 
developed extensively between 1930 and 1960, when Havana developed as a 
major destination for U.S. tourists; high-rise hotels, casinos, restaurants, 
and upscale commercial establishments, many reflecting the art deco style.[63] 
Vedado is today Havana's financial district, the main banks, airline companies 
offices, shops, most businesses headquarters, numerous high-rise apartments 
and hotels, are located in the area.[64] The University of Havana is located 
in Vedado. By the end of 2012 official Census, 19.1% of the population 
of Cuba lived in Havana.[2] According to the census of 2012, the population 
was 2,106,146[65] The city has an average life expectancy of 76.81 years 
at birth.[2] In 2009, there were 1,924 people living with HIV/AIDS in the 
city, 78.9% of these are men, and 21.1% being women.[66] According to the 
2012 Havana's official race census (the Cuban census and similar studies 
use the term "skin colour" instead of "race").[65] There are few mestizos 
in contrast to many other Latin American countries, because the Native 
Indian population was virtually wiped out by Eurasian diseases in colonial 
times.[68] Havana agglomeration grew rapidly during the first half of the 
20th century reaching 1 million inhabitants in the 1943 census. The con-urbanization 
expanded over the Havana municipality borders into neighbor municipalities 
of Marianao, Regla and Guanabacoa. Starting from the 1980s, the city's 
population is growing slowly as a result of balanced development policies, 
low birth rate, its relatively high rate of emigration abroad, and controlled 
domestic migration. Because of the city and country's low birth rate and 
high life expectancy,[69][70] its age structure is similar to a developed 
country, with Havana having an even higher proportion of elderly than the 
country as a whole.[2] The Cuban government controls the movement of people 
into Havana on the grounds that the Havana metropolitan area (home to nearly 
20% of the country's population) is overstretched in terms of land use, 
water, electricity, transportation, and other elements of the urban infrastructure. 
There is a population of internal migrants to Havana nicknamed "palestinos" 
(Palestinians),[71] sometimes considered a racist term,[72] these mostly 
hail from the eastern region of Oriente.[73] The city's significant minority 
of Chinese, mostly Cantonese ancestors, were brought in the mid-19th century 
by Spanish settlers via the Philippines with work contracts and after completing 
8-year contracts many Chinese immigrants settled permanently in Havana.[67] 
Before the revolution the Chinese population counted to over 200,000,[74] 
today, Chinese ancestors could count up to 100,000.[75] Chinese born/ native 
Chinese (mostly Cantonese as well) are around 400 presently.[76] There 
are some 3,000 Russians living in the city; as reported by the Russian 
Embassy in Havana, most are women married to Cubans who had studied in 
the Soviet Union.[77] Havana also shelters other non-Cuban population of 
an unknown size. There is a population of several thousand North African 
teen and pre-teen refugees.[78] Roman Catholics form the largest religious 
group in Havana. Havana is one of the three Metropolitan sees on the island 
(the others being Camaguëy and Santiago), with two suffragan bishoprics: 
Mananzas and Pinar del Río. Its patron saint is San Cristobal (Saint Christopher), 
to whom the cathedral is devoted. it also has a minor basilica (Nuestra 
Señora de la Caridad) and two national shrines, Jesús Nazareno del Rescate 
and San Lázaro (El Rincón). It received papal visits from three successive 
supreme pontiffs: Pope John Paul II (1998.01), Pope Benedict XVI (2012.03) 
and Pope Francis (2015.09). The Jewish community in Havana has reduced 
after the Revolution from once having embraced more than 15,000 Jews,[79] 
many of whom had fled Nazi persecution and subsequently left Cuba to Miami 
or moved to Israel after Castro took to power in 1959. The city once had 
five synagogues, but only three remain (one Orthodox, and two Conservative: 
one Conservative Ashkenazi and one Conservative Sephardic), Beth Shalom 
Grand Synagogue is one of them and another that is a hybrid of all 3 put 
together. In February 2007 the New York Times estimated that there were 
about 1,500 known Jews living in Havana.[80] The years after the Soviet 
Union collapsed in 1991, the city, and Cuba in general have suffered decades 
of economic deterioration.[84] The national government does not have an 
official definition of poverty.[85] The government researchers argue that 
"poverty" in most commonly accepted meanings does not really exist in Cuba, 
but rather that there is a sector of the population that can be described 
as "at risk" or "vulnerable" using internationally accepted measures.[85] 
The generic term "slum" is seldom used in Cuba, substandard housing is 
described: housing type, housing conditions, building materials, and settlement 
type. The National Housing Institute considers units in solares (a large 
inner-city mansion or older hotel or boarding house subdivided into rooms, 
sometimes with over 60 families)[83] and shanty towns to be the "precarious 
housing stock" and tracks their number. Most slum units are concentrated 
in the inner-city municipalities of Old Havana and Centro Habana, as well 
as such neighbourhoods as Atarés in Regla.[82] People living in slums have 
access to the same education, health care, job opportunities and social 
security as those who live in formerly privileged neighbourhoods. Shanty 
towns are scattered throughout the city except for in a few central areas.[82] 
Over 9% of Havana's population live in cuartería (solares, ciudadela), 
3.3% in shanty towns, and 0.3% in refugee shelters.[81][82] This does not 
include an estimate of the number of people living in housing in "fair" 
or "poor" condition because in many cases these units do not necessarily 
constitute slum housing but rather are basically sound dwellings needing 
repairs. According to Instituto Nacional de Vivienda (National Housing 
Institute) official figures, in 2001, 64% of Havana's 586,768 units were 
considered in "good" condition, up from 50% in 1990. Some 20% were in "fair" 
condition and 16% in "poor" condition.[82] Partial or total building collapses 
are not uncommon, although the number had been cut in half by the end of 
the 1990s as the worst units disappeared and others were repaired. Buildings 
in Old Havana and Centro Habana are especially exposed to the elements: 
high humidity, the corrosive effects of salt spray from proximity to the 
coast, and occasional flooding. The city's public buses are carried out 
by two divisions, Metrobús and Omnibus Metropolitanos (OM).[86] The Metrobus 
serves the inner-city urban area, with a maximum distance of 20 km (12 mi).[87] 
Its fleet have been modernized, but formerly in 2006 were known as "camellos" 
(camels). The camellos operated on the busiest routes and were trailers 
transformed into buses known as camels, so called for their two humps. 
The Metrobus consists of 17 main lines, identified with the letter "P" 
with long-distance routes. The stops are usually 800–1,000 metres (2,600–3,300 ft), 
with frequent buses in peak hours, about every 10 minutes. It uses large 
modern articulated buses, such as the Chinese-made Yutong brand, Russian-made 
Liaz, or MAZ of Belarus. The Omnibus Metropolitanos (OM), known as the 
Metrobus feeder line, connects the adjacent towns and cities in the metropolitan 
area with the city center, with a maximum distance of 40 km (25 mi).[87] 
This division has one of the most used and largest urban bus fleets in 
the country, its fleet is made up of mostly new Chinese Yutong buses,[88] 
but as well older Busscar buses. In 2008 the Cuban government invested 
millions of dollars for the acquisition of 1,500 new Yutong urban buses. 
Havana is served by José Martí International Airport. The Airport lies 
about 11 kilometres (7 mi) south of the city center, in the municipality 
of Boyeros, and is the main hub for the country's flag carrier Cubana de 
Aviación. The airport is Cuba's main international and domestic gateway, 
it connects Havana with the rest of the Caribbean, North, Central and South 
America, Europe and one destination in Africa. The city is also served 
by Playa Baracoa Airport which is small airport to the west of city used 
for some domestic flights, primarily Aerogaviota. Havana has a network 
of suburban, interurban and long-distance rail lines. The railways are 
nationalised and run by the FFCC (Ferrocarriles de Cuba – Railways of Cuba). 
The FFCC connects Havana with all the provinces of Cuba. The main railway 
stations are: Central Rail Station, La Coubre Rail Station, Casablanca 
Station, and Estación de Tulipán. In 2004 the annual passenger volume was 
some 11 million,[87] but demand is estimated at two-and-a-half to three 
times this value, with the busiest route being between Havana and Santiago 
de Cuba, some 836 kilometres (519 mi) apart by rail. In 2000 the Union 
de Ferrocarriles de Cuba bought French first class airconditioned coaches. 
In the 1980s there were plans for a Metro system in Havana similar to Moscow's, 
as a result of the Soviet Union influence in Cuba at the time. The studies 
of geology and finance made by Cuban, Czech and Soviet specialists were 
already well advanced in the 1980s.[89] The Cuban press showed the construction 
project and the course route, linking municipalities and neighborhoods 
in the capital.[89] In the late 1980s the project had already begun, each 
mile of track was worth a million dollars at the time, but with the fall 
of the Soviet Union in 1991 the project was later dropped.[89] An interurban 
line, known as the Hershey Electric Railway, built in 1917 runs from Casablanca 
(across the harbor from Old Havana) to Hershey and on to Matanzas.[90] 
Ferries connect Old Havana with Regla and Casablanca, leaving every 10–15 
minutes from Muelle Luz (at the foot of Santa Clara Street). The fare is 
CUP 0.20¢ (city residents) or CUC $1 (foreigners).[91] The city's road 
network is quite extensive, and has broad avenues, main streets and major 
access roads to the city such as the Autopista Nacional (A1), Carretera 
Central and Via Blanca. The road network has been under construction and 
growth since the colonial era, is currently undergoing a major deterioration 
due to low maintenance.[92] Motorways (autopistas) include: The current 
mayor of Havana (President of the People's Power Provincial Assembly) is 
Marta Hernández Romero,[10] she was elected on March 5, 2011.[93] The city 
is administered by a city-provincial council, with a mayor as chief administrative 
officer. Thus, Havana functions as both a city and a province, the city 
has little autonomy and dependent upon the national government, particularly, 
for much of its budgetary and overall political direction. The national 
government is headquartered in Havana and plays an extremely visible role 
in the city's life. Moreover, the all-embracing authority of many national 
institutions has led to a declining role for the city government, which, 
nevertheless, still provides much of the essential services and has competences 
in education, health care, city public transport, garbage collection, small 
industry, agriculture, etc. Voters elect delegates to Municipal Assemblies 
in competitive elections. There is only one political party, the Communist 
Party, but since there must be a minimum of two candidates, members of 
the Communist Party often run against each other. Candidates are not required 
to be members of the party. They are nominated directly by citizens in 
open meetings within each election district. Municipal Assembly delegates 
in turn elect members of the Provincial Assembly, which in Havana serves 
roughly as the City Council; its president functions as the Mayor. There 
are direct elections for deputies to the National Assembly based on slates, 
and a portion of the candidates is nominated at the local level. The People's 
Councils (Consejos Populares) consist of local municipal delegates who 
elect a full-time representative to preside over the body. In addition, 
there is participation from "mass organisations" and representatives of 
local government agencies, industries and services. The 105 People's Councils 
in Havana cover an average of 20,000 residents. Havana city borders are 
contiguous with the Mayabeque Province on the south and east and to Artemisa 
Province on the west, since former La Habana Province (rural) was abolished 
in 2010. The national government assumes all responsibility for education, 
and there are adequate primary, secondary, and vocational training schools 
throughout Cuba. The schools are of varying quality and education is free 
and compulsory at all levels except higher learning, which is also free. 
The University of Havana, located in the Vedado section of Havana, was 
established in 1728 and was regarded as a leading institution of higher 
learning in the Western Hemisphere. Soon after the Revolution, the university, 
as well as all other educational institutions, were nationalized. Since 
then several other universities have opened, like the Polytechnic José 
Antonio Echeverría where the vast majority of today's Cuban engineers are 
taught. The Cuban National Ballet School with 4,350 students is one of 
the largest ballet schools in the world and the most prestigious ballet 
school in Cuba.[94] All Cuban residents have free access to health care 
in hospitals,[95] local polyclinics, and neighbourhood family doctors who 
serve on average 170 families each,[96] which is one of the highest doctor-to-patient 
ratio in the world.[97] However, the health system has suffered from shortages 
of supplies, equipment and medications caused by ending of the Soviet Union 
subsidies in the early 1990s and the US embargo.[98] Nevertheless, Havana's 
infant mortality rate in 2009 was 4.9 per 1,000 live births,[2] 5.12 in 
the country as a whole, which is lower than many developed nations,[99][100] 
and the lowest in the developing world.[99][100][101] Administration of 
the health care system for the nation is centred largely in Havana. Hospitals 
in Havana are run by the national government, and citizens are assigned 
hospitals and clinics to which they may go for attention. Utility services 
are under the control of several nationalized state enterprises that have 
developed since the Cuban revolution. Water, electricity, and sewage service 
are administered in this fashion. Electricity is supplied by generators 
that are fueled with oil. Much of the original power plant installations, 
which operated before the Revolutionary government assumed control, have 
become somewhat outdated. Electrical blackouts occurred, prompting the 
national government in 1986 to allocate the equivalent of $25,000,000 to 
modernize the electrical system. Many Cubans are avid sports fans who particularly 
favour baseball. Havana's teams in the Cuban National Series are Artemisa, 
Camagüey, Ciego de Ávila, Cienfuegos, Granma, Guantánamo, Holguín, Industriales, 
La Isla, Las Tunas, Matanzas, Mayabeque, Pinar del Río, Sancti Spíritus, 
Santiago and Villa Clara FCBA. The city has several large sports stadiums, 
the largest one is the Estadio Latinoamericano. Admission to sporting events 
is generally free, and impromptu games are played in neighborhoods throughout 
the city. Social clubs at the beaches provide facilities for water sports 
and include restaurants and dance halls. Notable people originally from 
Havana: José Martí José R. Capablanca Rita Montaner Alicia Alonso José 
Lezama Lima Celia Cruz Dulce María Loynaz Maria Teresa, Grand Duchess of 
Luxembourg Andy García Gloria Estefan Dave Lombardo Gente De Zona Descemer 
Bueno Tom Croucier, musician As Cuba's national capital and seat of government, 
Havana hosts 88 embassies (including the papal apostolic nunciature, traditionally 
manned by a titular archbishop). Furthermore, there are 11 consulates(-general) 
and a trade office.[9] Havana is twinned with: Note: Some of the city's 
municipalities are also twinned to small cities or districts of other big 
