Haverhill (/ˈheɪvrɪl/ HAY-vril) is a city in Essex County, Massachusetts, 
United States. The population was 60,879 at the 2010 census.[1] Located 
on the Merrimack River, it began as a farming community of Puritans, largely 
from Newbury Plantation. The land was officially purchased from the Pentuckets 
on November 15, 1642 (a year after incorporation) for three pounds, ten 
shillings.[2] Pentucket was renamed Haverhill and would evolve into an 
important industrial center, beginning with sawmills and gristmills run 
by water power. In the 18th and 19th century, Haverhill developed woolen 
mills, tanneries, shipping and shipbuilding. The town was for many decades 
home to a significant shoe-making industry. By the end of 1913, one tenth 
of the shoes produced in the United States were made in Haverhill, and 
because of this the town was known for a time as the "Queen Slipper City". 
The city was also known for the manufacture of hats. Haverhill has played 
a role in nearly every era of American history, from the initial colonial 
settlement, to the French and Indian Wars, and the American Revolutionary 
and Civil wars.[3] The town was founded in 1640 by settlers from Newbury, 
and was originally known as Pentucket, which is the Native American word 
for "place of the winding river". Settlers such as John Ward, Robert Clements, 
Tristram Coffin, Hugh Sheratt, William White, and Thomas Davis aided in 
the purchase of land known by Indians as Pentuckett. The land was purchased 
from native Indian chiefs Passaquo and Saggahew and permission was granted 
by Passaconaway, chief of the Pennacook's. Settlers, Thomas Hale, Henry 
Palmer, Thomas Davis, James Davis and William White were its first selectman. 
First Court appointments; given to end small causes were given to Robert 
Clements, Henry Palmer,and Thomas Hale. At the same court, it was John 
Osgood and Thomas Hale that were also appointed to lay the way from Haverhill 
to Andover.[4] It is said that these early settlers worshipped under a 
large oak tree, known as the "Worshipping Oak".[5] The town was renamed 
for the town of Haverhill, England,[6] in deference to the birthplace of 
the settlement's first pastor, Rev. John Ward.[7] The original Haverhill 
settlement was located around the corner of Water Street and Mill Street, 
near the Linwood Cemetery and Burying Ground. The home of the city's father, 
William White, still stands, although it was expanded and renovated in 
the 17th and 18th centuries. White's Corner (Merrimack Street and Main 
Street) was named for his family, as was the White Fund at Boston's Museum 
of Fine Arts. Judge Nathaniel Saltonstall was chosen to preside over the 
Salem witch trials in the 17th century; however, he found the trials objectionable 
and recused himself. Historians cite his reluctance to participate in the 
trials as one of the reasons that the witch hysteria did not take as deep 
a root in Haverhill as it did in the neighboring town of Andover, which 
had among the most victims of the trials. However, a number of women from 
Haverhill were accused of witchcraft, and a few were found "guilty" by 
the Court of Oyer and Terminer. One of the initial group of settlers, Tristram 
Coffin, ran an inn. However, he grew disenchanted with the town's stance 
against his strong ales, and in 1659 left Haverhill to become one of the 
founders of the settlement at Nantucket. Haverhill was for many years a 
frontier town, and was occasionally subjected to Indian raids, which were 
sometimes accompanied by French colonial troops from New France. During 
King William's War, Hannah Dustin became famous for killing and then scalping 
her native captors, who were converts to Catholicism, after being captured 
in the Raid on Haverhill (1697). The city has the distinction of featuring 
the first statue erected in honor of a woman in the United States. In the 
late 19th century, it was Woolen Mill Tycoon Ezekiel J. M. Hale that commissioned 
a statue in her memory in Grand Army Republic Park. The statue depicts 
Dustin brandishing an axe and several Abenaki scalps. Her captivity narrative 
and subsequent escape and revenge upon her captors caught the attention 
of Cotton Mather, who wrote about her, and she also demanded from the colonial 
leaders the reward per Indian scalp. Hannah Dustin remained controversial 
throughout her lifetime and remains controversial since the Native American 
Indians she killed and scalped in order to escape were allegedly not her 
original captors and among the people she killed were allegedly young children. 
(Hannah, born Hannah Emerson, came from a troubled family: in 1676 her 
father Michael Emerson was fined for excessive violence toward his 12-year-old 
daughter Elizabeth, who in 1693 was hanged for concealing the deaths of 
her illegitimate twin daughters; and in 1683 Hannah's sister Mary was whipped 
for fornication.[8]) Haverhill was for many years a frontier town, and 
was occasionally subjected to Indian raids, which were sometimes accompanied 
by French colonial troops from New France. During King William's War, Hannah 
Dustin became famous for killing and then scalping her native captors, 
who were converts to Catholicism, after being captured in the Raid on Haverhill 
(1697). The city has the distinction of featuring the first statue erected 
in honor of a woman in the United States. In the late 19th century, it 
was Woolen Mill Tycoon Ezekiel J. M. Hale that commissioned a statue in 
her memory in Grand Army Republic Park. The statue depicts Dustin brandishing 
an axe and several Abenaki scalps. Her captivity narrative and subsequent 
escape and revenge upon her captors caught the attention of Cotton Mather, 
who wrote about her, and she also demanded from the colonial leaders the 
reward per Indian scalp. Hannah Dustin remained controversial throughout 
her lifetime and remains controversial since the Native American Indians 
she killed and scalped in order to escape were allegedly not her original 
captors and among the people she killed were allegedly young children. 
(Hannah, born Hannah Emerson, came from a troubled family: in 1676 her 
father Michael Emerson was fined for excessive violence toward his 12-year-old 
daughter Elizabeth, who in 1693 was hanged for concealing the deaths of 
her illegitimate twin daughters; and in 1683 Hannah's sister Mary was whipped 
for fornication.[9]) In 1708, during Queen Anne's War, the town, then about 
thirty homes, was raided by a party of French, Algonquin and Abenaki Indians. 
Like most towns, Haverhill has been struck by several epidemics. Diphtheria 
killed 256 children in Haverhill between November 17, 1735 and December 
31, 1737.[10] George Washington visited Haverhill on November 4, 1789. 
Washington was on a "triumphant circuit" touring New England. Bradford 
Academy was established in 1803. It began as a co-educational institution, 
then became women-only in 1836.[11] In 1826, influenza struck. A temperance 
society was formed in 1828. Haverhill residents were early advocates for 
the abolition of slavery, and the city still retains a number of houses 
which served as stops on the Underground Railroad. In 1834, a branch of 
the American Anti-Slavery Society was organized in the city. In 1841, citizens 
from Haverhill petitioned Congress for dissolution of the Union, on the 
grounds that Northern resources were being used to maintain slavery. John 
Quincy Adams presented the Haverhill Petition on January 24, 1842. Even 
though Adams moved that the petition be answered in the negative, an attempt 
was made to censure him for even presenting the petition.[12] In addition, 
poet John Greenleaf Whittier was an outspoken abolitionist. The Haverhill 
and Boston Stage Coach company operated from 1818 to 1837 when the railroad 
was extended to Haverhill from Andover. It then changed its name and routes 
to the Northern and Eastern Stage company. It was Ezekiel Hale Jr. and 
son Ezekiel James Madison Hale (descendants of Thomas Hale) that gave Haverhill 
a great head of steam. It was in the summer of 1835, the brick factory 
on Winter St was erected by Ezekiel Hale Jr. and Son. It was intended to 
run woolen flannel at a whopping six hundred yards of flannel per day. 
It was Ezekiel JM Hale, age 21 and graduate of Dartmouth College that came 
to the rescue when fire destroyed the operation in 1845. He rebuilt the 
mill at Hale's Falls, now more than twice as large produced nearly three 
times the output. Ezekiel JM Hale became Haverhill's Tycoon. EJM Hale served 
a term in the State Senate and was much revered in the area. Hale donated 
large sums of money to build the hospital and library.[13] Haverhill was 
incorporated as a city in 1870. In the early morning hours of February 
17, 1882, a massive fire destroyed much of the city's mill section, in 
a blaze that encompassed over 10 acres (4.0 ha). Firefighting efforts were 
hampered by not only the primitive fire fighting equipment of the period, 
but also high winds and freezing temperatures. The nearby water source 
– the Merrimack River – was frozen, and hoses dropped through the ice tended 
to freeze as well. A New York Times report the next day established the 
damage at 300 businesses destroyed and damage worth approximately $2M (in 
1882 dollars).[14][15][16] Bradford fits naturally into Haverhill but they 
were separate towns until January 1, 1897, when Bradford joined the City 
of Haverhill. Bradford was originally the western part of Rowley until 
it split from Old Rowley in 1672. In 1850, the East part of Bradford left 
and was founded as the independent town of Groveland. When Haverhill became 
a city in 1870, there were calls for the town to be annexed. This would 
go on for another 26 years. Neither town agreed to a plan, until in late 
1896, the vote came up and both sides agree to join. There were many reasons 
for the decision. Finances played a part into the annexation; a lot of 
people who lived in Bradford had businesses in Haverhill and wanted lower 
taxes. Traditionalists wanted Haverhill to be a dry town as Bradford was. 
Businesses in Lawrence, Portsmouth, and Andover wanted Haverhill to be 
a dry town so more business would show up and increase businesses in those 
towns. The demand for municipal services like Hospitals, Schools, and a 
new Factory downtown were in Haverhill while Bradford had none of the three. 
The Bradford Center of town wanted to join Haverhill but the Ward Hill 
section of town did not at the time since it was a substantial distance 
from both Bradford and Haverhill. Finally, another reason why Haverhill 
wanted to annex Bradford was to return the town to majority English instead 
of the plurality of Irish, French-Canadians and Central Europeans (Hungarians, 
Slovakians, Germans, and Italians) it had become with the influx of mill 
workers. Haverhill gladly approved with the first ballot in 1870 and Bradford 
was no more starting January 1, 1897. Bradford remains the only town in 
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to be annexed to a neighboring city other 
than Boston. Haverhill became the first American city with a socialist 
mayor in 1898 when it elected former shoe factory worker and cooperative 
grocery store clerk John C. Chase.[17] Chase was re-elected to this position 
in 1899 but was defeated the following year. Haverhill was the site of 
the eponymous Haverhill fever, also known as rat-bite fever, in 1926. In 
the early part of the 20th century, the manufacturing base in the city 
came under pressure as a result of lower priced imports from abroad. The 
Great Depression exacerbated the economic slump, and as a result city leaders 
enthusiastically embraced the concept of urban renewal in the 1950s and 
1960s, receiving considerable federal funds used to demolish much of the 
north side of Merrimack Street, most of the Federal homes along Water Street 
(dating from the city's first hundred years of development), and throughout 
downtown. Many of the city's iconic buildings were lost, including the 
Oddfellows Hall, the Old City Hall, the Second Meetinghouse, the Pentucket 
Club, and the Old Library, among others. During Urban Renewal, the iconic 
high school—the inspiration for Bob Montana's Archie Comics[citation needed]—was 
falsely declared "unsound" and slated for demolition. Instead, the historic 
City Hall on Main Street was demolished, and city began using the High 
School of Archie's Gang as the new City Hall. Urban Renewal was controversial. 
Several leading citizens argued to use the funds for preservation rather 
than demolition. Their plan was not accepted in Haverhill, which chose 
to demolish much of its historic downtown, including entire swaths of Merrimack 
Street, River Street, and Main Street. However, examples of the city's 
architecture, spanning nearly four centuries, abound: from early colonial 
houses (the White residence, the Duston Garrison House, the 1704 John Ward 
House, the 1691 Kimball Tavern, and the historic district of Rocks Village) 
to the modernist 1960s architecture of the downtown Haverhill Bank. The 
city's Highlands district, adjacent to downtown, is a fine example of the 
variety of Victorian mansions built during Haverhill's boom years as a 
shoe manufacturing city. In the 21st century, downtown Haverhill has undergone 
a renaissance of sorts. Housing trends, combined with a rezoning by the 
city led by longtime Mayor James Fiorentini and the use of Federal and 
State brownfield's money to clean up abandoned factories, resulted in the 
conversion of several abandoned factories into loft apartments and condominiums. 
There has been a total of $150 million in public and private investment 
in the downtown old factory district area. Additionally, the Washington 
Street area gained new dining and entertainment spots, and federal, State 
and local funds contributed to removing an abandoned gas station on Granite 
Street, cleaning up the site and converting it to a 350-space parking garage. 
The city was able to obtain Federal, State and local money to put in a 
new boardwalk and boat docks downtown.[18] Recently, the city completed 
a rezoning of downtown proposed by Mayor Fiorentini designed to encourage 
artist loft live work space and educational uses for the downtown area. 
Despite the city's efforts, old buildings remain vacant or underutilized, 
such as the former Woolworth department store – boarded up for 40+ years 
at the intersection of Main Street and Merrimack Street. Recently a group 
purchased that building with the intention of redeveloping it, however 
those plans fell through. In February 2014, it was announced that plans 
were made to redevelop "Whites Corner" by demolishing the vacant Woolworth 
building along with other surrounding buildings including the former Newman's 
Furniture, Ocasio Building, replacing them with the new mixed-use project 
called Harbor Place. Those buildings along with other smaller ones were 
officially demolished as of March 19, 2015 making way for the construction 
of the Harbor Place project. As of July 23, 2016 the construction on the 
Harbor Place buildings are well underway as the mixed use building is near 
completion and the housing building is making progress. According to the 
United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 35.6 square miles 
(92.3 km2), of which 33.0 square miles (85.4 km2) is land and 2.7 square 
miles (6.9 km2), or 7.47%, is water.[19] The city ranks 60th in the Commonwealth 
in terms of land area, and is the largest city or town in Essex County. 
Haverhill is drained by the Little and Merrimack rivers, the latter separating 
the Bradford section of town from the rest of Haverhill. The highest point 
in the city is found on Ayers Hill, a drumlin with two knobs of almost 
equal elevation of at least 335 feet (102 m), according to the most recent 
(2011-2012) USGS 7.5-minute topographical map.[20] The city also has several 
ponds and lakes, as well as three golf courses. Haverhill is bordered by 
Merrimac to the northeast, West Newbury and Groveland to the east, Boxford 
and a small portion of North Andover to the south, Methuen to the southwest, 
and Salem, Atkinson and Plaistow, New Hampshire, to the north. From its 
city center, Haverhill is 8 miles (13 km) northeast of Lawrence, 27 miles 
(43 km) southeast of Manchester, New Hampshire, and 32 miles (51 km) north 
of Boston. As of the census[35] of 2010, there were 60,879 people, 25,576 
households, and 14,865 families residing in the city. The population density 
was 1,846.5 people per square mile (683.1/km²). There were 23,737 housing 
units at an average density of 712.2 per square mile (275.0/km²). The racial 
makeup of the city was 88.3% White, 4.5% African American, 0.3% Native 
American, 1.6% Asian, 0.03% Pacific Islander, 4.30% from other races, and 
2.6% from two or more races. Hispanic Latino made up 14.5% of the population 
(5.8% Puerto Rican, 4.6% Dominican, 0.9% Mexican, 0.5% Guatemalan, 0.3% 
Salvadoran, 0.3% Colombian, 0.2% Cuban). 16.8% were of Irish, 14.6% Italian, 
10.1% French, 9.0% English, 7.8% French Canadian and 6.3% American ancestry 
according to Census 2000. There were 22,976 households out of which 33.0% 
had children under the age of 18 living with them, 47.0% were married couples 
living together, 13.4% had a female householder with no husband present, 
and 35.3% were non-families. 28.6% of all households were made up of individuals 
and 10.3% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The 
average household size was 2.51 and the average family size was 3.11. In 
the city the population was spread out with 25.7% under the age of 18, 
7.7% from 18 to 24, 33.5% from 25 to 44, 20.4% from 45 to 64, and 12.8% 
who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 36 years. For every 
100 females there were 90.3 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, 
there were 85.7 males. The median income for a household in the city was 
$49,833, and the median income for a family was $59,772. Males had a median 
income of $41,197 versus $31,779 for females. The per capita income for 
the city was $23,280. About 7.0% of families and 9.1% of the population 
were below the poverty line, including 12.3% of those under age 18 and 
10.0% of those age 65 or over. Haverhill is the home of the main campus 
of Northern Essex Community College. Until its closing in 2000, Bradford 
College provided liberal arts higher education in Haverhill. In 2007, it 
became the new home of the Zion Bible College, now called Northpoint Bible 
College. Recently, The University of Massachusetts at Lowell (U-Mass Lowell) 
has announced its intention to locate a satellite campus in Haverhill and 
has begun teaching several courses at Northern Essex Community College. 
Haverhill is currently in the process of construction on replacing the 
deteriorating Hunking School in the Bradford section of the city. Haverhill 
lies along Interstate 495, which has five exits throughout the city. The 
town is crossed by five state routes, including Routes 97, 108, 110, 113 
and 125. Routes 108 and 125 both have their northern termini at the New 
Hampshire state border, where both continue as New Hampshire state routes. 
Four of the five state routes, except Route 108, share at least a portion 
of their roadways in the town with each other. Haverhill is the site of 
six road crossings and a rail crossing of the Merrimack; two by I-495 (the 
first leading into Methuen), the Comeau Bridge (Railroad Avenue, which 
leads to the Bradford MBTA station), the Haverhill/Reading Line Railroad 
Bridge, the Basiliere Bridge (Rte. 125/Bridge St.), the Bates Bridge (Rtes. 
97/113 to Groveland) and the Rocks Bridge to West Newbury, just south of 
the Merrimac town line. In 2010, a project began to replace the Bates Bridge, 
60 feet (18 m) downstream, with a modern bridge. The project is expected 
to take two to three years and cost approximately $45 million.[36] MBTA 
Commuter Rail provides service from Boston's North Station with the Haverhill 
and Bradford stations on its Haverhill/Reading Line. Amtrak provides service 
to Portland, Maine, and Boston's North Station from the same Haverhill 
station. Additionally, MVRTA provides local bus service to Haverhill and 
beyond. The nearest small-craft airport, Lawrence Municipal Airport, is 
in North Andover. The nearest major airport is Manchester-Boston Regional 
Airport in Manchester, and the nearest international airport is Logan International 
