Coordinates: 52°05′N 0°26′E﻿ / ﻿52.08°N 0.44°E﻿ / 52.08; 0.44 Haverhill 
(pronounced /ˈheɪvəhɪl/ or /ˈheɪvrɪl/) is a market town and civil parish 
in the county of Suffolk, England, next to the borders of Essex and Cambridgeshire. 
It lies 14 miles (23 km) southeast of Cambridge and 47 miles (76 km) north-east 
of central London. Haverhill is the second largest town in the Borough 
of St Edmundsbury and has a population of 27,041 The town centre lies at 
the base of a gentle dip in the chalk hills of the Newmarket Ridge; running 
through the town is the Stour Brook, which goes on to join the River Stour 
just outside the town. Rapid expansion of the town over the last two decades 
means that the western edge of Haverhill now includes the hamlet of Hanchet 
End. The surrounding countryside largely consists of arable land. Haverhill 
dates back to at least Saxon times,[1] and the town's market is recorded 
in the Domesday book (1086). Whilst most of its historical buildings were 
lost to the great fire on 14 June 1667,[2] one notable Tudor-era house 
remains (reportedly given to Anne of Cleves as part of her divorce from 
Henry VIII and thus titled Anne of Cleves House) as well as many interesting 
Victorian buildings. Following a planning review in 1956, Haverhill was 
targeted for expansion.[3] This was primarily to resettle communities from 
London which had been devastated during World War II. As part of this plan, 
new housing settlements and new factories were built. A later review in 
1962 planned for a threefold increase in population from the then population 
of 5,446.[4] This influx of people changed many aspects of life in Haverhill. 
One noticeable change is that the local Suffolk accent (still spoken by 
the town's older residents) has largely been replaced by a London/South-east 
England accent characterised as Estuary English.[citation needed] The expansion 
was not without friction. Residents who moved to the newly developed areas 
complained about the housing density and lack of amenities in a 1968 Man 
Alive documentary.[5] Nowadays, Haverhill is predominantly a modern and 
young town. The relatively small town centre is surrounded by many large 
housing developments, completed at various periods between the 1950s and 
the present. Haverhill's economy is dominated by industry, and a large 
industrial area on the southern side of the town is home to a large number 
of manufacturing companies. Scientific firms including Sanofi and Sigma-Aldrich 
have plants in the town, as do International Flavors & Fragrances, and 
some waste processing, transport and construction firms. A business park 
has also been built on the industrial estate, alongside the bypass. A weekly 
market is held in the town in the High Street each Saturday. A smaller 
market is held each Friday in the town's market square. Haverhill has two 
Non-League football clubs, Haverhill Rovers F.C. and Haverhill Borough 
F.C., who both play in the Eastern Counties Football League. The two clubs 
share the New Croft ground. Other sporting clubs in the town include a 
cricket club and an angling club. Since 2013 Haverhill has also been home 
to Suffolk's only Baseball team, the Haverhill Blackjacks, who play in 
the British Baseball Federation Single-A South league, and who also play 
their home games at The New Croft. There are various sporting activities 
available in Haverhill, including a leisure centre (with swimming pool, 
gym and a children's soft play area, Kid City),[6] an 18-hole golf course,[7] 
a dance school,[8] and a Skatepark. The Haverhill Arts Centre is housed 
within the grade II listed town hall,[9] and features a cinema as well 
as hosting live music, drama, dance, and comedy. A 5-screen multiplex cinema 
complex was opened in October 2008.[10] From 2007 to 2013 the town was 
home to The Centre for Computing History, a computer museum established 
to tell the story of the Information Age.[11] West Suffolk Swimming Club 
formed in 1998 from the merger of two local swimming clubs and is now becoming 
one of the largest competitive swimming clubs in East Anglia. They operate 
from three pools located at the Bury St Edmunds Leisure Centre, Haverhill 
Leisure and Culford School The A1307 road is the only major road that connects 
Haverhill to Cambridge and the A11 and the M11 motorway. This route experiences 
congestion with commuter traffic most mornings and evenings.[12] The A1307 
is classified as a very high risk of casualty route. A proposal exists 
to develop the route whereby a new dual carriage way would be built from 
Haverhill to Cambridge, keeping the original road open as a feeder road 
and local bus stop route. [13] Local bus services on this route are provided 
by Stagecoach: routes 13, 13A, 13B and X13 run approximately every 30 min 
during the day, every 60 min evenings and Sundays. The bus station in Haverhill 
also provides local services to some of the surrounding towns and villages. 
The town has no railway station and is one of the largest towns in England 
without one.[14] It once had two railway stations and two interconnected 
railways. The Stour Valley Railway ran from Cambridge to Sudbury and beyond 
via Haverhill North whilst the Colne Valley and Halstead Railway ran from 
Haverhill South to Marks Tey via Castle Hedingham and Halstead. For the 
most part, Haverhill North was used as the passenger train terminus for 
both the Stour Valley and Colne Valley railways to allow interchange between 
the two railways. Both stations are now demolished, but many bridges, cuttings 
and embankments are still visible in Haverhill and beyond. The "Rail Haverhill" 
group (formerly Cambridge to Sudbury Rail Renewal Association) has a campaign 
to re-open the railway between Haverhill and Cambridge.[15] For national 
and international flights, Haverhill is close to London Stansted Airport, 
which lies approximately 21 miles (30 km) to the south. The much smaller 
Cambridge City Airport also serves some domestic flights. In 2000-1 two 
thousand inhabitants of Haverhill were photographed and morphed into a 
single image by the artist Chris Dorley-Brown. The resulting image was 
displayed in the National Portrait Gallery (London). This was the biggest 
photographic morphing project of its kind.[16] In November 2004, Haverhill 
made a claim for a world first, becoming the only known town to feature 
a laser-lit sculpture on a roundabout.[17] The 11-metre (36 ft) high steel 
sculpture, called the Spirit of Enterprise (or by locals as "The bin", 
or "The toilet roll"), is situated on the main gateway roundabout on the 
west side of town, and was mostly funded by local businesses.[18] In Haverhill, 
there are two academies, Samuel Ward Trust (Samuel Ward, Coupals and Westfield) 
and Castle Partnership (Burton End Primary Academy, Place Farm Primary 
Academy and Castle Manor Academy). St Felix Roman Catholic church and New 
Cangle are NOT an academy. Nathaniel Ward, the author of the first constitution 
in North America, was born in Haverhill in 1578.[19][20] Nathaniel's brother 
Samuel after whom a local school was named. Pop musician Steve Rinaldi 
of the bands Rinaldi Sings and The Moment, who featured a map of the town 
on the cover of their first single, "In This Town" (1984), is originally 
from Haverhill, as is owner of Some Bizzare Records, Stevo Pearce. Professional 
footballer Michael Morrison grew up in the town, and racing driver Gary 
Paffett is also a resident. Haverhill is twinned with The following photographs 
were taken in May 2015. Market square and St Mary the Virgin church The 
Royal Exchange pub and High Street Public library at the Burton Centre 
Bandstand at Haverhill recreation ground Haverhill Methodist church View 
