Haywood Cooper Sullivan (December 15, 1930 – February 12, 2003) was an 
American college and professional baseball player who was a catcher, manager, 
general manager and club owner in Major League Baseball. From 1978 through 
1993, he was a general partner in the Boston Red Sox, where he reportedly 
parlayed a $200,000 investment into a $33 million cash out. Sullivan was 
born in Donalsonville, Georgia, and raised in Dothan, Alabama. He received 
an athletic scholarship to attend the University of Florida in Gainesville, 
Florida, where he was the starting quarterback for coach Bob Woodruff's 
Florida Gators football team in 1950 and 1951,[1] and a standout catcher 
for coach Dave Fuller's Gators baseball team in 1951 and 1952. In his two 
seasons as the Gators' quarterback, Sullivan threw for 2,016 yards in an 
era when the emphasis was on a running offense. As a Gators baseball player, 
he was named to the All-Southeastern Conference (SEC) team in 1952. He 
threw and batted right-handed, stood 6 feet 4 inches (1.93 m) tall and 
weighed 215 pounds (98 kg). Sullivan signed a guaranteed $45,000 bonus 
contract with the Red Sox in 1952, a contract that would not have been 
available in another year under pending baseball rules changes, and thereby 
ended his college football and baseball career after his junior year. He 
was later inducted into the University of Florida Athletic Hall of Fame 
as a "Gator Great."[2] Sullivan's professional baseball playing career—derailed 
by military service (causing him to miss the 1953 and 1954 seasons) and 
back surgery that cost him the entire 1958 campaign—was largely confined 
to the minor leagues for its first eight seasons. After three short stays 
and only eight total games played over three different years, Sullivan 
finally made the big leagues in 1960. He was the starting backstop for 
the first three games of the Red Sox' season, including on Opening Day, 
the then-traditional "Presidential Opener" at Washington's Griffith Stadium. 
But Sullivan injured his hand in the season's third game, struggled offensively, 
and after the acquisition of Russ Nixon on June 13 (when Sullivan was hitting 
.135 in 36 games), he played sparingly. He ended the season as Boston's 
second-most-used catcher, behind Nixon, with 50 games caught. But he batted 
only .161 with four extra-base hits and was left exposed in the 1960 Major 
League Baseball expansion draft. The newly created edition of the Washington 
Senators franchise picked him up, then traded him to the Kansas City Athletics 
for pitcher Marty Kutyna in December 1960.[3] Sullivan played for 2½ seasons 
with the Athletics, and was the club's semi-regular catcher in 1961 and 
1962, starting 78 and 80 games behind the plate. In a three-game span against 
his former team, the Red Sox, at Municipal Stadium from July 12–14, 1962, 
Sullivan had seven hits in 11 at bats, with two home runs, although Boston 
won all three games.[4] For his MLB career, Sullivan batted .226 with 13 
home runs in 312 games over all or parts of seven seasons.[5] In 1964, 
Sullivan was named manager of the Athletics' Birmingham Barons farm club 
in the Double-A Southern League. His team—the first integrated team in 
Birmingham[6]—missed the pennant by just one game, earning him a promotion 
to the Triple-A Vancouver Mounties of the Pacific Coast League in 1965. 
But after only 25 games in Vancouver, Sullivan was called up to manage 
the A's on May 16, 1965, succeeding Mel McGaha. At age 34, Sullivan was 
the youngest manager in Major League Baseball that season.[7] Kansas City 
had lost 21 of its first 26 games and was lodged in last place in the ten-team 
American League when McGaha was fired, and they remained in the cellar 
for the rest of the 1965 season, winning 54 and losing 82 (.397) under 
Sullivan. In November 1965, he was recruited by the Red Sox, who had reorganized 
their front office under new general manager Dick O'Connell. As vice president, 
player personnel, Sullivan was positioned as the top "baseball man" in 
the organization, and from 1965 to 1967 was instrumental in acquiring several 
players from the Athletics (such as José Santiago, John Wyatt, José Tartabull 
and Ken Harrelson) who would help lead Boston to its surprise 1967 AL pennant. 
But O'Connell gradually assumed more power and took over most of Sullivan's 
responsibilities; Sullivan kept his title but in reality became the Red 
Sox' director of scouting after the 1973 death of Neil Mahoney. Despite 
his decline in overall authority, Sullivan maintained very close personal 
ties with owner Tom Yawkey and his wife, Jean. In 1977, a year after Tom 
Yawkey died of leukemia, the Red Sox were put up for sale. Sullivan—reportedly 
borrowing $100,000 and using his home as collateral—joined an ownership 
group organized by former Red Sox athletic trainer Edward "Buddy" LeRoux. 
Because of Sullivan's close friendship with Jean Yawkey, the LeRoux offer 
was accepted, even though it was not the highest bid and the group did 
not have the financial resources of some of its rivals. The American League 
initially rejected the deal, but reconsidered when Mrs. Yawkey joined the 
group as a third general partner in 1978. Before the sale was consummated, 
in October 1977, Mrs. Yawkey fired O'Connell and promoted Sullivan to general 
manager. Overall, his first off-season as GM of the Red Sox was highly 
successful. Still using the resources of the Yawkey fortune, and benefitting 
from the depth of the Red Sox farm system that he helped to build, Sullivan 
acquired players such as Mike Torrez, Jerry Remy, Dick Drago, Tom Burgmeier 
and Dennis Eckersley. Buoyed by the new additions to an already strong 
team, the Red Sox charged into first place in the 1978 AL East race, but 
they would squander a 14½ game lead over the New York Yankees and then 
lose a one-game playoff for the division title to miss the playoffs completely. 
Although manager Don Zimmer is usually cast as the chief culprit for the 
collapse, Sullivan contributed to the debacle by dealing away useful players 
such as Bernie Carbo, Ferguson Jenkins, Jim Willoughby and Reggie Cleveland, 
who were considered to be "clubhouse lawyers." None of the players fetched 
comparable value, and the loss of pitching and bench strength was a critical 
factor in Boston's struggles. Sullivan then further earned the wrath of 
Red Sox Nation after the 1978 season when he allowed legendary pitcher 
Luis Tiant to leave for the Yankees as a free agent and, as he had done 
with Jenkins, Carbo and the others, dumped a clubhouse dissident, lefty 
pitcher Bill Lee, in a giveaway trade—in this case, to the Montreal Expos. 
In 1979, he raised eyebrows when he selected his son Marc Sullivan, who 
was not considered to have early-round talent, in the second round of baseball's 
amateur draft; the younger Sullivan would bat a paltry .186 in parts of 
five major league seasons.[8] In December 1980, Sullivan faced the imminent 
free agency of Rick Burleson, Carlton Fisk and Fred Lynn—Boston's starting 
shortstop, catcher and center fielder, and the "up the middle" core of 
the ball club. The three players, represented by agent Jeremy Kapstein, 
had been embroiled in a contract dispute with the team in 1976, the first 
year of free agency, and hard feelings still lingered between them, Sullivan 
and Mrs. Yawkey. Sullivan was able to trade Burleson for value (young third 
baseman Carney Lansford and relief pitcher Mark Clear), but then failed 
to mail contract offers to Lynn and Fisk by MLB's mandated deadline, triggering 
binding arbitration and unintentionally speeding their free agency. Sullivan 
was forced to accept fifty cents on the dollar for Lynn in a trade to the 
California Angels, and then lost Fisk outright when the arbitrator declared 
him a free agent. From then on, Sullivan's reputation in Boston was tarnished. 
He refused to enter the market for free agents, preferring to rely exclusively 
on player development, but the Boston farm system hit a dry spell resulting 
from poor drafts during Sullivan's tenure as GM; whereas O'Connell in 1976 
alone had drafted Wade Boggs, John Tudor, and Bruce Hurst, the only starting 
player drafted and signed by the Red Sox between 1977 and 1979 was Marty 
Barrett. The Red Sox were also ridiculed for stinginess and ineptitude, 
with one sportswriter claiming that the team motto should have been "don't 
just do something; stand there!" The contending Bosox of the late 1970s 
were reduced to also-rans. Sullivan's legacy received another battering 
in 1983 when a long-simmering estrangement from LeRoux became embarrassingly 
public. On June 6, just prior to a ceremony celebrating the Red Sox' 1967 
AL championship, and raising money to care for stricken former outfielder 
Tony Conigliaro, LeRoux called a press conference to reveal that he and 
his limited partners had exercised a contract clause and taken control 
of the Red Sox. He fired Sullivan on the spot, and restored O'Connell—who 
hadn't set foot in Fenway Park since his dismissal in 1977—to the GM post. 
Boston sportswriters called the gambit "the Coup LeRoux." Sullivan and 
Mrs. Yawkey then immediately called their own press conference to announce 
they had filed suit to prevent the takeover. A court granted them an injunction, 
and in a public 1984 trial that aired dirty laundry on both sides, Sullivan 
and Yawkey won the day again. LeRoux was eventually bought out and Jean 
Yawkey became the majority general partner. But the damage had been done. 
Sullivan voluntarily gave up his general manager duties to Lou Gorman in 
June 1984, immediately after the court victory over LeRoux, and became 
the team's chief executive and chief operating officer. Gorman received 
credit for trades that helped the 1986 Red Sox win the AL championship, 
although Sullivan's determination to build from within helped to furnish 
the club with many of its key players. During Sullivan's tenure as general 
manager and top executive, the Red Sox, with their history as the last 
pre-expansion MLB team to break the color line, were again criticized for 
institutional racism. Fans and media noted the Red Sox' relative lack of 
African-American and Latin-American players. In a 1985 public relations 
disaster, the team was sued by former outfielder and coach Tommy Harper, 
an African-American. Harper was fired as a minor league base-running instructor 
after he complained to the media about the club's practice of allowing 
the all-white Elks Club of Winter Haven, Florida (where the team held spring 
training) into the Red Sox clubhouse to invite white players and front-office 
personnel to the Elks' segregated facilities. Harper's complaint was upheld 
by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission on July 1, 1986. (Moreover, 
the city of Boston itself was painted as racist after the violence surrounding 
its school desegregation of the 1970s and incidents such as the Charles 
Stuart affair in the late 1980s.) When the Red Sox re-entered the free 
agent market late in the 1980s, they were able to sign All-Star catcher 
Tony Peña, but many nonwhite players ignored the Red Sox in free agency, 
or included them on their "no trade" lists. This trend began to change 
when the Red Sox bid aggressively (but unsuccessfully) for Kirby Puckett 
after the 1991 season. After 1986 and LeRoux's exit, Sullivan and Mrs. 
Yawkey grew distant, and, although he still held a general partnership 
in the team, by the late 1980s Sullivan was consistently outvoted 2–1 by 
Mrs. Yawkey's two general partnership shares. (Sullivan's title of CEO/COO, 
meanwhile, quietly was removed from the team's masthead.) When Mrs. Yawkey 
died in 1992, Sullivan and her representative, John Harrington, who headed 
the JRY Trust, each vowed to buy the other out. On November 23, 1993, Harrington 
made good his word, acquiring Sullivan's share in the team for a reported 
$33 million. Sullivan then retired to the Gulf Coast of Florida, where 
he operated a marina and invested successfully in real estate, his name 
occasionally popping up (usually linked with former Commissioner of Baseball 
Fay Vincent)[9] as a potential part-owner of another Major League club. 
Upon Sullivan's death at age 72 in Fort Myers, Florida, after suffering 
a stroke, Boston baseball observers such as Peter Gammons took a fresh 
view of Sullivan's impact on the Red Sox and gave him renewed credit for 
building the team into contenders, and keeping them there, from 1966 forward. 
He was named to the team's Hall of Fame in 2004. Florida Gators quarterbacks are listed in the order of their first appearance as a starter. Overlapping years indicate seasons when more than one player started at quarterback. 
