Hell's Kitchen, also known as Clinton and Midtown West, is a neighborhood 
on the West Side of Midtown Manhattan in New York City. It is traditionally 
considered to be bordered by 34th Street to the south, 59th Street to the 
north, Eighth Avenue to the east, and the Hudson River to the west. The 
area provides transport, medical, and warehouse infrastructure support 
to Midtown's business district. Once a bastion of poor and working-class 
Irish Americans, Hell's Kitchen's location in Midtown has changed its personality 
since the 1970s. The 1969 City Planning Commission's Plan for New York 
City reported that development pressures related to its Midtown location 
were driving people of modest means from the area, and the gritty reputation 
that Hell's Kitchen developed afterward kept real estate prices below those 
of most other areas of Manhattan. Since the early 1990s, the area has been 
gentrifying, and rents have risen rapidly. Located close to both Broadway 
theatres and the Actors Studio training school, Hell's Kitchen has long 
been a home to learning and practicing actors. The name "Hell's Kitchen" 
generally refers to the area from 34th to 59th Streets. Starting west of 
Eighth Avenue, city zoning regulations generally limit buildings to six 
stories. As a result, most of the buildings are older, and are often walk-up 
apartments. For the most part, the neighborhood encompasses the ZIP codes 
10019 and 10036. The post office for 10019 is called Radio City Station, 
the original name for Rockefeller Center on Sixth Avenue.[3] Several explanations 
exist for the original name. An early use of the phrase appears in a comment 
Davy Crockett made about another notorious Irish slum in Manhattan, Five 
Points. According to the Irish Cultural Society of the Garden City Area: 
When, in 1835, Davy Crockett said, "In my part of the country, when you 
meet an Irishman, you find a first-rate gentleman; but these are worse 
than savages; they are too mean to swab hell's kitchen." He was referring 
to the Five Points.[4] According to an article by Kirkley Greenwell, published 
online by the Hell's Kitchen Neighborhood Association: No one can pin down 
the exact origin of the label, but some refer to a tenement on 54th Street 
as the first "Hell's Kitchen." Another explanation points to an infamous 
building at 39th as the true original. A gang and a local dive took the 
name as well.... a similar slum also existed in London and was known as 
Hell's Kitchen.[5] Local historian Mary Clark explained the name thus: 
...first appeared in print on September 22, 1881 when a New York Times 
reporter went to the West 30s with a police guide to get details of a multiple 
murder there. He referred to a particularly infamous tenement at 39th Street 
and Tenth Avenue as "Hell's Kitchen," and said that the entire section 
was "probably the lowest and filthiest in the city." According to this 
version, 39th Street between 9th and 10th Avenues became known as Hell's 
Kitchen and the name was later expanded to the surrounding streets. Another 
version ascribes the name's origins to a German restaurant in the area 
known as Heil's Kitchen, after its proprietors.[6] But the most common 
version traces it to the story of "Dutch Fred the Cop," a veteran policeman, 
who with his rookie partner, was watching a small riot on West 39th Street 
near Tenth Avenue. The rookie is supposed to have said, "This place is 
hell itself," to which Fred replied, "Hell's a mild climate. This is Hell's 
Kitchen."[6][7] Hell's Kitchen has stuck as the most-used name of the neighborhood, 
even though real estate developers have offered alternatives of "Clinton" 
and "Midtown West", or even "the Mid-West". The Clinton name, used by the 
municipality of New York City, originated in 1959 in an attempt to link 
the area to DeWitt Clinton Park at 52nd and Eleventh Avenue, named after 
the 19th century New York governor. On the island of Manhattan as it was 
when Europeans first saw it, the Great Kill formed from three small streams 
that united near present-day Tenth Avenue and 40th Street, then wound through 
the low-lying Reed Valley, renowned for fish and waterfowl,[8] to empty 
into the Hudson River at a deep bay on the river at the present 42nd Street.[9] 
The name was retained in a tiny hamlet, Great Kill, that became a center 
for carriage-making, while the upland to the south and east became known 
as Longacre, the predecessor of Longacre Square (now Times Square).[10] 
One of the large farms of the colonial era in this neighborhood was that 
of Andreas Hopper and his descendants, extending from today's 48th Street 
nearly to 59th Street and from the river east to what is now Sixth Avenue. 
One of the Hopper farmhouses, built in 1752 for John Hopper the younger, 
stood near 53rd Street and Eleventh Avenue; christened "Rosevale" for its 
extensive gardens, it was the home of the War of 1812 veteran, Gen. Garrit 
Hopper Striker, and lasted until 1896, when it was demolished. The site 
was purchased for the city and naturalistically landscaped by Samuel Parsons 
Jr. as DeWitt Clinton Park. In 1911 New York Hospital bought a full city 
block largely of the Hopper property, between 54th and 55th Streets, Eleventh 
and Twelfth Avenues.[11] Beyond the railroad track, projecting into the 
river at 54th Street, was Mott's Point, with an 18th-century Mott family 
house surrounded by gardens that was inhabited by members of the family 
until 1884 and survived until 1895.[12] A lone surviving structure that 
dates from the time this area was open farmland and suburban villas is 
a pre-1800s carriage house that once belonged to a villa owned by former 
Vice President and New York State governor George Clinton, now in a narrow 
court behind 422 West 46th Street.[14] From 1811 until it was officially 
de-mapped in 1857, the diminutive Bloomingdale Square was part of the city's 
intended future; it extended from 53rd to 57th Streets between Eighth and 
Ninth Avenues. It was eliminated after the establishment of Central Park,[15] 
and the name shifted to the junction of Broadway, West End Avenue, and 
106th Street, now Straus Park. In 1825, the City purchased for $10 clear 
title to a right-of-way through John Leake Norton's[a] farm, "The Hermitage", 
to lay out 42nd Street clear to the river. Before long, cattle ferried 
from Weehawken were being driven along the unpaved route to slaughterhouses 
on the East Side.[16] Seventy acres of the Leakes' (later the Nortons') 
property, extending north from 42nd to 46th Street and from Broadway to 
the river, had been purchased before 1807 by John Jacob Astor and William 
Cutting, who held it before dividing it into building lots as the district 
became more suburban. There were multiple changes that helped Hell's Kitchen 
integrate with New York City proper. The first was construction of the 
Hudson River Railroad, whose initial leg – the 40 miles (64 km) to Peekskill – 
was completed on September 29, 1849, By the end of 1849, it stretched to 
Poughkeepsie and in 1851 it extended to Albany. The track ran at a steep 
grade up Eleventh Avenue, as far as 60th Street. [17] The formerly rural 
riverfront was industrialized by businesses, such as tanneries, that used 
the river for shipping products and dumping waste. The neighborhood that 
would later be known as Hell's Kitchen, started forming in the southern 
part of the 22nd Ward in the mid-19th century. Irish immigrants – mostly 
refugees from the Great Famine – found work on the docks and railroad along 
the Hudson River and established shantytowns there. After the American 
Civil War, there was an influx of people who moved to New York city. The 
tenements that were built became overcrowded quickly. Many who lived in 
this congested, poverty-stricken area turned to gang life. Following Prohibition, 
implemented in 1919, the district's many warehouses were ideal locations 
for bootleg distilleries for the rumrunners who controlled illicit liquor. 
At the start of the 20th century, the neighborhood was controlled by gangs, 
including the violent Gopher Gang led by One Lung Curran and later by Owney 
Madden.[18] Early gangs, like the Hell's Kitchen Gang, transformed into 
organized crime entities, around the same time that Owney Madden became 
one of the most powerful mobsters in New York. It became known as the "most 
dangerous area on the American Continent". After the repeal of Prohibition, 
many of the organized crime elements moved into other rackets, such as 
illegal gambling and union shakedowns. The postwar era was characterized 
by a flourishing waterfront, and longshoreman work was plentiful. By the 
end of the 1950s, however, the implementation of containerized shipping 
led to the decline of the West Side piers and many longshoremen found themselves 
out of work. In addition, the construction of the Lincoln Tunnel had split 
Hell's Kitchen in the Lincoln Tunnel ramp area at 39th Street, and anything 
southwest of 39th Street and Tenth Avenue was virtually condemned.[19]- 
In 1959, an aborted rumble between rival Irish and Puerto Rican gangs led 
to the notorious "Capeman" murders in which two innocent teenagers were 
killed. By 1965, Hell's Kitchen was the home base of the Westies, an Irish 
mob aligned with the Gambino crime family. It was not until the early 1980s 
that widespread gentrification began to alter the demographics of the longtime 
working-class Irish American neighborhood. The 1980s also saw an end to 
the Westies' reign of terror, when the gang lost all of its power after 
the RICO convictions of most of its principals in 1986. Although the neighborhood 
is immediately west of New York's main business district, large-scale redevelopment 
has been kept in check for more than 30 years by strict zoning rules in 
a Special Clinton District designed to protect the neighborhood's residents 
and its low-rise character. In part to qualify for federal aid, New York 
developed a comprehensive Plan for New York City in 1969–70. For Hell's 
Kitchen, the master plan called for two to three thousand hotel rooms, 
25,000 apartments, 25,000,000 square feet (2,300,000 m2) of office space, 
a new super liner terminal, a subway along 48th Street, and a convention 
center to replace what the plan described as "blocks of antiquated and 
deteriorating structures of every sort."[20][21] However, outrage at the 
massive residential displacement that this development project would have 
caused,[22] and the failure of the City to complete any replacement housing, 
led to opposition to the first project – a new convention center to replace 
the New York Coliseum.[23] To forestall the negative impacts of the master 
plan, the Clinton Planning Council and Daniel Gutman, their environmental 
planner, proposed that the convention center and all major development 
be located south of 42nd Street.[24] Nevertheless, in 1973 the Jacob K. 
Javits Convention Center was approved for a 44th Street site that would 
replace piers 84 and 86. In exchange the City first abandoned the 1969–70 
master plan[25] and then gave the neighborhood a special zoning district 
to restrict further redevelopment.[26] Since then, new development has 
filled in the many empty lots and rejuvenated existing buildings. However, 
in 1978, when the city could not afford to construct the 44th Street convention 
center, the Mayor and Governor chose the rail yard site originally proposed 
by the local community.[27] Major office and residential development south 
of 42nd Street indeed followed, albeit much later, when the Hudson Yards 
Redevelopment Project started construction. The SCD was originally split 
into four areas: Special permits are required for all demolition and construction 
in the SCD, including demolition of "any sound housing in the District" 
and any rehabilitation that increases the number of dwellings in a structure. 
In the original provisions. no building could be demolished unless it was 
unsound. New developments, conversions, or alterations that create new 
units or zero bedroom units must contain at least 20% two bedroom apartments 
with a minimum room size of 168 square feet (16 m2). Alterations that reduce 
the percentage of two-bedroom units are not permitted unless the resulting 
building meets the 20% two-bedroom requirement. Finally, building height 
in the Preservation Area cannot exceed 66 feet (20 m) or seven stories, 
whichever is less. As the gentrification pace increased, there were numerous 
reports of problems between landlords and tenants. The most extreme example 
was the eight-story Windermere complex at the southwest corner of Ninth 
Avenue and 57th Street. Built in 1881, it is the second-oldest large apartment 
house in Manhattan.[28][29] In 1980, the then-owner, Alan B. Weissman, 
tried to empty the building of its tenants. According to former tenants 
and court papers, rooms were ransacked, doors were ripped out, prostitutes 
were moved in, and tenants received death threats in the campaign to empty 
the building. All the major New York newspapers covered the trials that 
sent the Windermere's managers to jail. Although the building's landlord, 
Alan B. Weissman, was never linked to the harassment, he and his wife made 
top billing in the 1985 edition of The Village Voice annual list, "The 
Dirty Dozen: New York's Worst Landlords."[30] Most of the tenants eventually 
settled and moved out of the building. As of May 2006, seven tenants remained[31] 
and court orders protecting the tenants and the building allowed it to 
remain in derelict condition even as the surrounding neighborhood was experiencing 
a dramatic burst of demolition and redevelopment. Finally, in September 
2007, the fire department evacuated those remaining seven residents from 
the building, citing dangerous conditions, and padlocked the front door.[32] 
In 2008 the New York Supreme Court ruled that the owners of the building, 
who include the TOA Construction Corporation of Japan, must repair it.[33] 
By the 1980s the area south of 42nd Street was in decline. Both the state 
and the city hoped that the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center would renew 
the area.[34] Hotels, restaurants, apartment buildings, and television 
studios were proposed.[35] One proposal included apartments and hotels 
on a 30 acres (12 ha) pier jutting out onto Hudson River, which also included 
a marina, ferry slip, stores, restaurants, and a performing arts center.[36] 
At Ninth Avenue and 33rd Street, a 32-story office tower would be built.[37] 
Hotels, apartment buildings, and a Madison Square Garden would be built 
over the tracks west of Pennsylvania Station.[38][39] North of the Javits 
Center, a "Television City" would be developed by Larry Silverstein in 
conjunction with NBC.[35] One impediment to development was that there 
was very little public transit in the area, which is far from Penn Station, 
and none of the proposals for a quick link to Penn Station were viable.[34] 
No changes to the zoning policy happened until 1990, when the city rezoned 
a small segment of 11th Avenue near the Javits Center.[40][41] In 1993, 
part of 9th Avenue between 35th and 41st Streets was also rezoned.[42][43] 
However, neither of these rezonings was particularly significant, as most 
of the area was still zoned as a manufacturing district with low-rise apartment 
buildings.[44] By the early 1990s, there was a recession, which scuttled 
plans for rezoning and severely reduced the amount of development in the 
area.[45] After the recession was over, developers invested in areas like 
Times Square, eastern Hell's Kitchen, and Chelsea, but mostly skipped the 
Far West Side.[46] While almost all fire stations in Manhattan lost firefighters 
in the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the station with the greatest 
loss of firefighters was Engine 54, Ladder 4, Battalion 9 at 48th Street 
and Eighth Avenue, which lost 15 firefighters.[47] Given its proximity 
to Midtown, the station had specialized in skyscraper fires and rescues 
and, in 2007, was the second busiest firehouse in New York City, with 9,685 
runs between the two companies.[48] Its patch reads "Pride of Midtown" 
and "Never Missed a Performance". Memorials dot the station's exterior 
walls and a granite memorial is in a park to its north. Ladder 21, the 
"Pride of Hell's Kitchen", located on 38th Street between Ninth and Tenth 
Avenues, and stationed with Engine 34, lost seven firefighters on September 
11.[49] In addition, on September 11, Engine 26 was temporarily stationed 
with Engine 34/Ladder 21 and lost many firefighters themselves. Larry Silverstein 
made part of his fortune that eventually earned him the lease for the World 
Trade Center by building and managing buildings in the neighborhood. Hell's 
Kitchen has become an increasingly upscale neighborhood of affluent young 
professionals as well as residents from the "old days",[50][51][52] with 
rents in the neighborhood having increased dramatically above the average 
in Manhattan.[53] It has also acquired a large and diverse community as 
residents have moved north from Chelsea. Zoning has long restricted the 
extension of Midtown Manhattan's skyscraper development into Hell's Kitchen, 
at least north of 42nd Street.[54] The David Childs and Frank Williams 
designed Worldwide Plaza established a beachhead when it was built in 1989 
at the former Madison Square Garden site, a full city block between 49th 
and 50th Streets and between Eighth and Ninth Avenues. This project led 
a real-estate building boom on Eighth Avenue, including the Hearst Tower 
at 56th Street and Eighth Avenue. An indication of how fast real estate 
prices rose in the neighborhood was a 2004 transaction involving the Howard 
Johnson's Motel at 52nd and Eighth Avenue. In June, Vikram Chatwal's Hampshire 
Hotel Group bought the motel and adjoining SIR (Studio Instrument Rental) 
building for $9 million. In August, they sold the property to Elad Properties 
for about $43 million. Elad, which formerly owned the Plaza Hotel, is in 
the process of building The Link, a luxury 44-story building. The most 
prominent real estate project in the area, the Hudson Yards Redevelopment 
Project, including a mixed-use real estate development by Related Companies 
and Oxford Properties over the MTA's West Side Yard which is expected to 
consist of 16 skyscrapers containing more than 12,700,000 square feet (1,180,000 m2) 
of new office, residential, and retail space. Among the components of the 
Hudson Yards will be an extension of the IRT Flushing Line, serving the 
7 <7> trains, to the 34th Street – Hudson Yards station. This new station 
opened on September 13, 2015,[55][56] at 34th Street and 11th Avenue, and 
will serve a renovation of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, six million 
square feet (560,000 m2) of commercial office space, a 750,000-square-foot 
(70,000 m2) retail center with two levels of restaurants, cafes, markets 
and bars, a hotel, a cultural space, about 5,000 residences, a 750-seat 
school, and 14 acres (5.7 ha) of public open space.[57] Development on 
the rail yard site officially broke ground on December 4, 2012, with the 
first tower, an 895-foot (273 m) office building in the southeast corner 
of the site, expected to be complete in 2016.[58] Based on data from the 
2010 United States Census, the population of Hell's Kitchen (Clinton) was 
45,884, an increase of 5,289 (13.0%) from the 40,595 counted in 2000. Covering 
an area of 422.45 acres (170.96 ha), the neighborhood had a population 
density of 108.6 inhabitants per acre (69,500/sq mi; 26,800/km2).[1] The 
racial makeup of the neighborhood was 56.4% (25,891) White, 6.3% (2,869) 
African American, 0.2% (70) Native American, 15.0% (6,886) Asian, 0.1% 
(31) Pacific Islander, 0.4% (181) from other races, and 2.4% (1,079) from 
two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 19.3% (8,877) of 
the population.[2] Hell's Kitchen's side streets are mostly lined with 
trees. The neighborhood does not have many parks or recreational areas, 
though smaller plots have been converted into green spaces. One such park 
is De Witt Clinton Park on Eleventh Avenue between 52nd and 54th streets,[59] 
across the West Side Highway from Clinton Cove Park. Another is Hell's 
Kitchen Park, built in the 1970s on a former parking lot on 10th Avenue 
between 47th and 48th Streets.[7] A newer park in Hell's Kitchen is the 
Hudson Park and Boulevard, which is part of the Hudson Yards Redevelopment 
Project.[60] The Clinton Community Garden, a neighborhood garden, is a 
result of the actors living in the area. Since they mostly work at night 
in the local theatres, they took time to create a garden in what was then 
a rubble-strewn lot on West 48th Street between Ninth and Tenth avenues[61] 
Eventually it contributed to the area's gentrification. Hell's Kitchen's 
gritty reputation had made its housing prices lower than elsewhere in Manhattan. 
Given the lower costs in the past and its proximity to Broadway theatres, 
the neighborhood is a haven for aspiring actors.[63] Many famous actors 
and entertainers have resided there, including Burt Reynolds, Rip Torn, 
Bob Hope, Charlton Heston, James Dean, Madonna, Jerry Seinfeld, Larry David, 
Alicia Keys, John Michael Bolger, and Sylvester Stallone. This is due in 
large part to the Actors Studio on West 44th at which Lee Strasberg taught 
and developed method acting. With the opening of the original Improv by 
Budd Friedman in 1963, the club became a hangout for singers to perform 
but quickly attracted comedians, as well, turning it into the reigning 
comedy club of its time. Once located near West 44th Street and Ninth Avenue, 
it has since shuttered, replaced by a restaurant. Manhattan Plaza at 43rd 
Street between Ninth and Tenth Avenues was built in the 1970s to house 
artists. It consists of two 46-story towers with 70% of the apartments 
set aside for rent discounts for those who work in the arts.[64] The Actors' 
Temple and Saint Malachy's Roman Catholic Church with its Actors' Chapel 
also testify to the long-time presence of show business people. The neighborhood 
is also home to a number of broadcast and music-recording studios, including 
the CBS Broadcast Center at 524 West 57th Street, also the home of Black 
Entertainment Television's 106 & Park show; the former Sony Music Studios 
at 460 West 54th Street, which closed in 2007; Manhattan Center Studios 
at 311 West 34th Street; and Right Track Recording's Studio A509 orchestral 
recording facility at West 38th Street and Tenth Avenue. The syndicated 
Montel Williams Show is also taped at the Unitel Studios, 433 West 53rd 
Street, between Ninth and Tenth Avenues. In 2016, rock music singer and 
songwriter Sting recorded his album entitled "57th and 9th" at a music 
studio located near the intersection of 57th Street and Ninth Avenue in 
Hell's Kitchen.[65] The Comedy Central satirical news program The Daily 
Show has been taped in Hell's Kitchen since its debut. In 2005, it moved 
from its quarters at 54th Street and Tenth Avenue to a new studio in the 
neighborhood, at 733 Eleventh Avenue, between 51st and 52nd Streets. The 
54th and 10th location was used for The Colbert Report throughout its entire 
run from 2005 until 2014. As of 2015 the studio is used for The Nightly 
Show with Larry Wilmore, following Stephen Colbert's departure from Comedy 
Central. Next door at 511 W. 54th St. is Ars Nova theater, home to emerging 
artists Joe Iconis and breakout star Jesse Eisenberg, among others. The 
headquarters of Troma studios was located in Hell's Kitchen before their 
move to Long Island City in Queens. The Baryshnikov Arts Center opened 
at 37 Arts on 37th Street in 2005, the Orchestra of St. Luke's opened the 
DiMenna Center for Classical Music in the same building in 2011. The Alvin 
Ailey American Dance Theater opened at 55th Street and Ninth Avenue in 
2006. The Metropolitan Community Church of New York, geared toward an LGBTQ 
membership, is located in Hell's Kitchen. Ninth Avenue is noted for its 
many ethnic restaurants. The Ninth Avenue Association's International Food 
Festival, stretches through the Kitchen from 37th to 57th Streets every 
May, usually on the third weekend of the month. It has been going on since 
1974 and is one of the oldest street fairs in the city. There are Caribbean, 
Chinese, French, German, Greek, Italian, Irish, Mexican, and Thai restaurants 
as well as multiple Afghan, Argentine, Ethiopian, Peruvian, Turkish, Indian, 
Pakistani, and Vietnamese restaurants. Due to the abundance of restaurants, 
Restaurant Row is located on West 46th Street between Eighth and Ninth 
Avenues. The Lincoln Tunnel connects New York City to New Jersey. Parking 
lots dot the neighborhood, but are dwindling in quantity as developments 
are being built. Eleventh Avenue is lined with car dealerships, many of 
which claim to have the highest volume among all dealerships for their 
brands in the country. The massive Port Authority Bus Terminal is between 
40th and 42nd Streets and Eighth and Ninth Avenues. Several New York City 
Bus routes (such as the M11, M12, M31, M34 SBS, M42, M50) also service 
the area. Many of the horse-drawn carriages from Central Park stay in stables 
just off the West Side Highway. It is not uncommon to hear the sound of 
horses in the neighborhood. There have been calls for banning horse-drawn 
carriages, especially from Mayor of New York City Bill de Blasio following 
a handful of collisions between cars and carriages.[66][67][68] The carriage 
horses live in historic stables originally built in the 19th century, but 
today boast the latest in barn design, such as fans, misting systems, box 
stalls, and state-of-the-art sprinkler systems. As horses always have in 
densely populated urban areas, the carriage horses live upstairs in their 
stables while the carriages are parked below on the ground floor.[69][70] 
Cruise ships frequently dock at the New York Passenger Ship Terminal in 
the 48th to 52nd piers called Piers 88, 90, 92. Cruise ship horns are a 
common sound in the neighborhood. Several French restaurants opened on 
West 51st Street to accommodate traffic from the French Line. The piers 
originally built in 1930 are now considered small, and some cruise traffic 
uses other locations. Other ship operations in the neighborhood include 
Circle Line Sightseeing Cruises at West 42nd and the NY Waterway ferry 
service. Hell's Kitchen begins northwest of Penn Station. Amtrak trains 
going into the station run along a sunken corridor west of Tenth Avenue, 
which feeds into the Freedom Tunnel; it is used by approximately thirty 
trains daily. During the post-9/11 building boom, apartment houses have 
been built over sections of the train tracks. Hell's Kitchen is bounded 
on the east by the New York City Subway's IND Eighth Avenue Line (A C E trains). 
The MTA built the 7 Subway Extension (7 <7> trains) for the aforementioned 
Hudson Yards development. The extension to 34th Street – Hudson Yards opened 
on September 13, 2015,[55][56] making the IRT Flushing Line the westernmost 
New York City Subway line within Midtown.[71] The Success Academy Charter 
Schools group opened an elementary school,[72] Success Academy Hell's Kitchen,[73] 
in the High School of Graphic Communication Arts building in 2013.[72] 
