Coordinates: 51°45′09″N 0°28′09″W﻿ / ﻿51.7526°N 0.4692°W﻿ / 51.7526; -0.4692 
Hemel Hempstead /ˈhɛməl ˈhɛmpstᵻd/ is a large new town in Hertfordshire 
in the East of England, 24 miles (39 km) northwest of London and part of 
the Greater London Urban Area. The population according to the 2001 Census 
was 81,143, and at the 2011 census was 94,932.[1] Developed after the Second 
World War as a new town, it has existed as a settlement since the 8th century 
and was granted its town charter by King Henry VIII in 1539. It is part 
of the district (and borough since 1984) of Dacorum and the Hemel Hempstead 
constituency. The settlement was called by the name Henamsted or Hean-Hempsted 
in Anglo-Saxon times and in William the Conqueror's time by the name of 
Hemel-Amstede.[2] The name is referred to in the Domesday Book as "Hamelamestede",[3] 
but in later centuries it became Hamelhamsted, and, possibly, Hemlamstede.[4] 
In Old English, "-stead" or "-stede" simply meant a place, such as the 
site of a building or pasture, as in clearing in the woods, and this suffix 
is used in the names of other English places such as Hamstead and Berkhamsted.[5] 
It is theoretically possible for a previous name to have become corrupted 
to something very similar to Hempsted, & that "Hemel" originated as a way 
of specifying Hemel Hempstead as opposed to nearby Berkhamsted. Hemel is 
similar to the German "Himmel", which means 'heaven' or 'sky', so it could 
be that Hemel Hempstead was in a less forested area open to the sky, while 
Berkhamsted (which could mean 'birch') was in a forest of birch trees. 
Another opinion is that Hemel probably came from "Haemele" which was the 
name of the district in the 8th century and is most likely either the name 
of the land owner, or could mean "broken country".[6][7] The town is now 
known to residents as "Hemel" and is often colloquialized to "'emel", however 
before the Second World War locals called it "Hempstead". Emigrants from 
Hemel Hempstead migrated to the area which is now Hempstead, New York, 
including the surrounding areas such as Roosevelt, in the late 17th century.[8] 
Remains of Roman villa farming settlements have been found at Boxmoor and 
Gadebridge which span the entire period of Roman Britain. A well preserved 
Roman burial mound is located in Highfield.[9] The first recorded mention 
of the town is the grant of land at Hamaele by Offa, King of Essex, to 
the Saxon Bishop of London in AD 705. Hemel Hempstead on its present site 
is mentioned in the Domesday Book of 1086 as a vill, Hamelhamstede, with 
about 100 inhabitants. The parish church of St Mary's was built in 1140, 
and is recognised as one of the finest Norman parish churches in the county.[citation 
needed] The church features an unusual 200-foot-tall (61 m) spire, added 
in the 12th century, one of Europe's tallest.[citation needed] After the 
Norman conquest, Robert, Count of Mortain, the elder half-brother of William 
the Conqueror, was granted lands associated with Berkhamsted Castle which 
included Hemel Hempstead. The estates passed through several hands over 
the next few centuries including Thomas Becket in 1162. Hemel Hempstead 
was in the Domesday hundred of Danais (Daneys, i.e. Danish) which by 1200 
had been combined with the hundred of Tring to form the hundred of Dacorum,[10] 
which maintained its court into the 19th century. In 1290 King John's grandson, 
the Earl of Cornwall, gave the manor to the religious order of the Bonhommes 
when he endowed the monastery at Ashridge. The town remained part of the 
monastery's estates until the Reformation and break-up of Ashridge in 1539. 
In that same year, the town was granted a royal charter by Henry VIII to 
become a bailiwick with the right to hold a Thursday market and a fair 
on Corpus Christi Day. The first bailiff of Hemel Hempstead was William 
Stephyns (29 December 1539). Henry VIII and Anne Boleyn are reputed to 
have stayed in the town at this time.[11] Unusually fine medieval wall 
paintings from the period between 1470 and 1500 were discovered in some 
cottages in Piccotts End, very close to Hemel Hempstead in 1953. This same 
building had been converted into the first cottage hospital providing free 
medical services by Sir Astley Cooper in 1827.[12] In 1581, a group of 
local people acquired lands – now referred to as Box Moor – from the Earl 
of Leicester to prevent their enclosure. These were transferred to trustees 
in 1594. These have been used for public grazing and they are administered 
by the Box Moor Trust. Hemel's position on the shortest route between London 
and the industrial Midlands put it on the Sparrows Herne Turnpike Road 
in 1762, the Grand Junction Canal in 1795 and the London and Birmingham 
Railway in 1837.[13] However it remained principally an agricultural market 
town throughout the 19th century. In the last decades of that century development 
of houses and villas for London commuters began. The Midland Railway built 
a branch line, the Harpenden to Hemel Hempstead Railway, connecting to 
its mainline at Harpenden in 1877. Hemel steadily expanded, but only became 
a borough on 13 July 1898. During the Second World War ninety high explosive 
bombs were dropped on the town by the Luftwaffe. The most notorious incident 
was on 10 May 1942 when a stick of bombs demolished houses at Nash Mills 
killing eight people. The nearby Dickinson factories which were used to 
produce munitions, were the target.[14] After the Second World War, in 
1946, the government designated Hemel Hempstead as the site of one of its 
proposed new towns designed to house the population displaced by the London 
Blitz, since slums and bombsites were being cleared in London.[15] On 4 
February 1947, the Government purchased 5,910 acres (23.9 km2) of land 
and began work on the "New Town". The first new residents moved in during 
April 1949, and the town continued its planned expansion through to the 
end of the 1980s. Hemel grew to its present population of 80,000, with 
new developments enveloping the original town on all sides. The original 
part of Hemel is still known as the "Old Town". Hemel Hempstead was announced 
as candidate No 3 for a New Town in July 1946, in accordance with the government's 
"policy for the decentralisation of persons and industry from London". 
Initially there was much resistance and hostility to the plan from locals, 
especially when it was revealed that any development would be carried out 
not by the local council but by a newly appointed government body, the 
Hemel Hempstead Development Corporation (later amalgamated with similar 
bodies to form the Commission for New Towns). However, following a public 
inquiry the following year, the town got the go-ahead. Hemel officially 
became a New Town on 4 February 1947. The initial plans for the New Town 
were drawn up by architect Geoffrey Jellicoe. His view of Hemel Hempstead, 
he said, was "not a city in a garden, but a city in a park." However, the 
plans were not well received by most locals. Revised, and less radical 
plans were drawn up, and the first developments proceeded despite local 
protests in July 1948. The first area to be developed was Adeyfield. At 
this time the plans for a revolutionary double roundabout at Moor End were 
first put forward, but in fact it was not until 1973 that the roundabout 
was opened as it was originally designed. (It was quickly christened 'The 
Magic Roundabout' by locals, echoing the name of the children's TV show.) 
The first houses erected as part of the New Town plan were in Longlands, 
Adeyfield, and went up in the spring of 1949. The first new residents moved 
in early 1950. At this time, work started on building new factories and 
industrial areas, to avoid the town becoming a dormitory town. The first 
factory was erected in 1950 in Maylands Avenue. As building progressed 
with continuing local opposition, the town was becoming increasingly popular 
with those moving in from areas of north London. By the end of 1951, there 
was a waiting list of about 10,000 wishing to move to Hemel. The neighbourhoods 
of Bennett's End, Chaulden and Warner's End were started. The Queen paid 
a visit shortly after her accession in 1952, and laid a foundation stone 
for a new church in Adeyfield – one of her first public engagements as 
Queen. The shopping square she visited is named Queen's Square, and the 
nearby area has street names commemorating the then-recent conquest of 
Everest, such as Hilary and Tenzing Road. This conquest is also celebrated 
in the name of a pub in Warners End – the 'Top of the World'. The redevelopment 
of the town centre was started in 1952, with a new centre based on Marlowe's 
south of the old town. This was alongside a green area called the Water 
Gardens, designed by Jellicoe, formed by ponding back the River Gade. The 
old centre of the High Street was to remain largely undeveloped, though 
the market square closed and was replaced by a much larger one in the new 
centre. The former private estate of Gadebridge was opened up as a public 
park. New schools and roads were built to serve the expanding new neighbourhoods. 
New housing technology such as prefabrication started to be used from the 
mid-'50s, and house building rates increased dramatically. Highfield was 
the next neighbourhood to be constructed. The M1 motorway opened to the 
east in 1959, and a new road connecting it to the town was opened. By 1962, 
the redevelopment of the new town as originally envisaged was largely complete, 
though further expansion plans were then put forward. The nearby United 
States Air Force base of Bovingdon, which had served as the town's de facto 
airport, reverted to RAF use at this time, continuing as an active military 
airfield until 1971. A campus of West Herts College, the library, new police 
station and the Pavilion (theatre and music venue) were all built during 
the 1960s. The town seemed to attract its fair share of celebrity openings, 
with shops and businesses opened by Frankie Vaughan, Benny Hill, Terry-Thomas, 
and the new cinema was opened by Hollywood star Lauren Bacall. The last 
of the originally-planned neighbourhoods, Grovehill, began construction 
in 1967. However, further neighbourhoods of Woodhall Farm and Fields End 
were later built as part of the extended plans. Like other first generation 
new towns, Hemel is divided into residential neighbourhoods, each with 
their own "village centre" with shops, pubs and services. Each neighbourhood 
is designed around a few major feeder roads with many smaller cul-de-sacs 
and crescents, intended to minimise traffic and noise nuisance. In keeping 
with the optimism of the early post-war years, much of the town features 
modernist architecture with many unusual and experimental designs for housing. 
Not all of these have stood the test of time. A significant issue was how 
to choose names for all the new roads. Many areas of the new town used 
themes e.g. fields, birds, rivers, poets, explorers, leaders, etc. In 1974, 
the government abolished the Borough of Hemel Hempstead and the town was 
incorporated into Dacorum District Council along with Tring and Berkhamsted. 
The first chairman of that council was chairman John Johnson (1913–1977). 
In the 1980s, Dacorum District Council successfully lobbied to be recognised 
as the successor for the Royal Charter establishing the Borough of Hemel 
Hempstead and thus regained the Mayor and its Aldermen and became Dacorum 
Borough Council. The political atmosphere of the town has changed significantly. 
Once a Labour Party stronghold, the town has seen an increase in Conservative 
Party voting in recent years, and the current Member of Parliament, Mike 
Penning, is Conservative. At the 2001 census, Hemel Hempstead was the most 
populated urban area in Hertfordshire, narrowly more populated than its 
traditionally "larger" rival, Watford. Hemel Hempstead grew up in a shallow 
chalkland valley at the confluence of the rivers Gade and Bulbourne, 27 
miles (43 km) northwest of central London. The New Town expansion took 
place up the valley sides and on to the plateau above the original Old 
Town. To the north and west lie mixed farm and woodland with scattered 
villages, part of the Chiltern Hills. To the west lies Berkhamsted. The 
River Bulbourne flows along the south-western edge of the town through 
Boxmoor. To the south lies Watford and the beginnings of the Greater London 
conurbation. To the east lies St Albans, a historic cathedral and market 
town and now like Hemel Hempstead, part of the London commuter belt. Possibly 
the best view of Hemel Hempstead in its physical setting is from the top 
of Roughdown Common, a chalk hill to the south of the town, at TL 049 055. 
The grand design for Hemel Hempstead newtown saw each new district centred 
around a parade or square of shops called a neighbourhood centre. Other 
districts existed before the newtown as suburbs, villages and industrial 
centres and were incorporated into the town. Jarman Park, the central location 
for leisure in the town, was previously agricultural land, which later 
becomes fields named after former town councilor and mayor, Henry Jarman, 
who oversaw the development of the New Town. The developments were built 
on land originally donated to the town for recreational purposes.[citation 
needed] Land had also been reserved for a hotel[citation needed], but still 
remains derelict. Replacement open space was created to the east of the 
town, near Leverstock Green, Longdean Park and Nash Mills. The first phase 
of recreational facilities, which opened in 1978, was the Loco Motion Skate 
Park. Subsequently, it became a dry ski slope with a small nursery (Jack 
& Jill's) next to it. Both areas were removed to make way for the Snow 
Centre which opened in 2009. A Tesco superstore was built in 1994 along 
with a petrol station, which was later expanded into a Tesco Extra complete 
with a new Harris + Hoole coffee shop on the first floor. It was the first 
to be built with natural light let in[citation needed]. The Jarman Square 
complex opened on 25 August 1995 (formerly named Leisure World and managed 
by The Rank Organisation,) currently managed by the Tesco Pension Fund. 
The current 17 screen Cineworld is its flagship attraction. In addition 
to the cinema inside Jarman Square there is an ice rink (Planet Ice, originally 
Silver Blades) several restaurants including Prezzo, Nando's, Bella Italia, 
Coast to Coast, Chiquito, Frankie & Benny's, Subway and Hungry Horse, and 
a gym operated by The Gym Group. When it was opened as Leisure World, the 
cinema originally had 8 screens and was operated by Odeon Cinemas, and 
later managed by Empire Cinemas until August 2016. The complex also included 
the upstairs Toddlerworld play area, the Aquasplash water park, Hotshots, 
which was a 30 lane ten pin bowling facility with a bar, Jarman Park Bowls 
Club, which was an upstairs bowls facility with 7 rinks, a Burger King, 
a Pizza Hut, a large arcade in the middle of the building, snooker and 
pool tables, a discothèque called Visage, later named Lava, a nightclub 
named Ethos, later named Ignite and a themed bar named Jumpin Jaks, later 
named JJ's, as well as the aforementioned ice rink. It was built at a cost 
of £22 million[16] and even had its own mascots, Larry the aquatic creature 
and Pierre the ice skating polar bear.[17] Toddlerworld closed in 2004 
for unknown reasons. The nightclub, discothèque, themed bar and Hotshots 
all closed in 2011 due to their parent company Luminar Leisure going into 
administration. Aquasplash closed in early 2014 to make way for new developments. 
The Pizza Hut then left at the end of the same year. In 2012 plans were 
submitted by the then landlords Capital & Regional to redevelop the site. 
It proposed a collection of family friendly cafes & restaurants, with Aquasplash 
closing down, with a brand new play area, gym and bowling alley with the 
ice rink and cinema. The Leisure World complex would be demolished as soon 
as the new unnamed project is completed. This was expected to begin construction 
in summer 2012 and be completed in early spring 2013. However, no developments 
took place for a couple of years. The ice rink was also proposed to close, 
a move seen as controversial by many locals. But after a lengthy campaign 
from activists, the ice rink was saved. Finally, in July 2014, demolition 
of the old nightclubs and the Aquasplash began, to be replaced by a new 
plan from new landlords featuring new restaurants and a gym, which opened 
between December 2014 and June 2015. The cinema continued to operate while 
the ice rink went under refurbishment. The cinema then revealed it was 
planning to expand from 8 screens to 17, with the old bowling alley, arcade, 
snooker & pool, bowls, Burger King and play area were becoming a new set 
of cinemas, while 6 of the original screens would become new restaurants. 
The remaining originals were converted into 3 screens, with Screens 8 becoming 
one of the cinema's own brand IMPACT screens, Screen 7 being used for the 
foyer and toilets, and Screen 6 becoming one large 281 IMAX auditorium. 
There is also a conference room and a children's party room added to the 
complex as well, with new staff toilets, offices and a staff room. As of 
March 2016, the new restaurants and the IMPACT Luxury screen are still 
under construction, but the other 16 new screens have been completed, with 
the IMAX opening on 17 December 2015 and the IMPACT Blue opening on 26 
February 2016, while the others opened in late October the same year. As 
well as the new screens,[18] A new Prezzo restaurant opened in July where 
the former Pizza Hut was located.[19] On August 12, the cinema transferred 
ownership from Empire to Cineworld.[20] There is also an athletics track 
used by the local sports group Sportspace that opened in 1996, with a small 
children's play park next to it which was refurbished mid 2015. It is also 
used by local schools for sports days. The most recent facilities, which 
opened in July 2011 and was built on a small unused park, is an extreme 
sports centre called XC, which contains a skate park, caving, climbing 
walls, high ropes, a café and counselling rooms for young people. It is 
co-run by Youth Connexions and Sportspace, and was built on land for a 
small park. In the centre of Jarman Park, there is also a McDonald's restaurant 
that has been open since 1995 and was refurbished in 2012. The former John 
Dickinson Stationery mills site, straddling the canal at Apsley, was redeveloped 
with two retail parks, a Sainsbury's supermarket, 3 low rise office blocks, 
housing, a mooring basin and a hotel. A further office block was also built. 
Some buildings have been retained for their historic interest and to provide 
a home for the Paper Museum. An indoor shopping mall was developed adjacent 
to the south end of the Marlowe's retail area in 1990, and in 2005 the 
Riverside development designed by Bernard Engle Architects was opened, 
effectively extending the main shopping precinct towards the Plough Roundabout. 
The new centre includes several outlets for national retailers including 
Debenhams, Starbucks, Waterstones and more. These two developments have 
moved the "centre of gravity" of the retail centre away from the north 
end of Marlowe's has become an area for secondary outlets. Further extensive 
redevelopment of the northern end of Marlowe's was also given the green 
light in 2007 and has now been completed. In late 2014, the "Hemel Evolution 
" project by the council began, with £30 million devoted to improving the 
town centre's appearance. To begin, the Old Town was refurbished with new 
paving, signage, and landscaping.[21] The old council buildings and library 
has closed down, to be replaced with a new development named "The Forum", 
where Dacorum Borough Council, the new library, Hertfordshire Police's 
Safer Neighbourhood Team, the Hertfordshire Registration and Citizenship 
Service, Dacorum Community Trust, Mediation Dacorum, Relate and the Citizen's 
Advice Bureau will all be located at. 200 new homes will surround the new 
development. This will be enhanced by a riverside walk/cycle way, with 
the now disused Market Square becoming more leisure facilities.[22] The 
Jellicoe Water Gardens are also set to be resorted to their former glory, 
clearing up the overgrown trees, introducing a new play area, a growing 
area for picnics and gardening to replace the old play area, a community 
centre for volunteers, learning organisations and schools, as well as the 
Friends of the Jellicoe Water Gardens and a new terrace for the flower 
garden.[23] The Hospital area will get new and improved access,[24] while 
the area around the Plough roundabout will receive new modern walkways, 
as well as new lighting, seating and flowers.[25] The pedestrianised high 
street is also being redeveloped, with a new play area and new play equipment 
around the street, such as coloured balls, slides, a tightrope and trampolines. 
A large electronic screen has been installed, and the water play fountain 
is to be converted into one with water jets, with the old sculpture placed 
on top of a new pillar detailing the work of Geoffrey Jellicoe. Bank Court 
is becoming a piazza environment for market stalls and other stuff, with 
new greenery to make it seem more like a park. The food court will receive 
more options and improved seating has already been installed. More lighting 
will be installed as well.[26] This should all hopefully be completed by 
the end of 2015. Isle of Man-based residential developer Dandara have redeveloped 
the old Kodak headquarters into an exclusive block of flats, with a new 
bridge to go with it. Since the 2005 Buncefield fire the former Maylands 
Avenue factory estate, badly affected by the fire, has been rebranded as 
Maylands Business Park and a 40-tonne sculpture by Jose Zavala called Phoenix 
Gateway placed on the first roundabout off the M1 to symbolise its renewal. 
The now disused mill site at Nash Mills has been redeveloped to build housing 
and community facilities, it retains some historic buildings and uses various 
watercourses as amenities. Historically, the area was agricultural and 
was noted for its rich cereal production. The agricultural journalist William 
Cobbett noted of Hemel Hempstead in 1822 that "..the land along here is 
very fine: a red tenacious flinty loam upon a bed of chalk at a yard or 
two beneath, which, in my opinion, is the very best corn land that we have 
in England."[27] By the 18th century the grain market in Hemel was one 
of the largest in the country. In 1797 there were 11 watermills working 
in the vicinity of the town.[28] The chalk on which Hemel is largely built 
has had commercial value and has been mined and exploited to improve farmland 
and for building from the 18th century. In the Highbarns area, now residential, 
there was a collapse in 2007 of a section of old chalk workings and geological 
studies have been undertaken to show the extent of these workings.[29] 
In the 19th century, Hemel was a noted brickmaking, paper manufacturing 
and straw-plaiting centre. In later 19th and early 20th centuries, Hemel 
was also a noted watercress growing area, supplying 1/16 of the country's 
national demand – following development of the New Town, the watercress 
growing moved to nearby Berkhamsted and Tring. The cress beds were redeveloped 
as the modern-day Water Gardens. Joseph Cranstone's engineering company 
was founded in 1798, and was responsible for much of the early street lighting 
in the town as well as it first gasworks. It became the Hemel Hempstead 
Engineering Company and stayed in business until the Second World War. 
In 1867 Cranstone's son built a steam powered coach which he drove to London, 
but which was destroyed in a crash on the return journey. A local Boxmoor 
pub commemorates the event. In 1803 the first automatic papermaking machinery 
was developed in Hemel by the Fourdrinier brothers at Frogmore. Paper making 
expanded in the vicinity in the early 19th century and grew into the huge 
John Dickinson mills in the 20th. A traditional employer in the area was 
also Brock's, manufacturer of fireworks. The factory was a significant 
employer since well before the Second World War, and remained in production 
until the mid-1970s. The present-day neighbourhood of Woodhall Farm was 
subsequently built on the site. From 1967 to 1983, it was home to one of 
the most remarkable newspaper experiments of recent times, when the Thomson 
Organisation launched the Hemel Hempstead Evening Post-Echo. This comprised 
two evening papers – the Evening Echo and the Evening Post – and was based 
at a modern headquarters in Mark Road which had previously been used as 
a hot water bottle factory. The dual operation was conceived by Lord Thomson 
of Fleet to take on the Northcliffe and Beaverbrook domination of the London 
evening paper market and tap into what he saw as a major source of consumer 
advertising. The papers were remarkable not only for technological innovation 
but also journalistic excellence. Both the Evening Echo and Evening Post 
won design awards during the late 1960s and early 1970s, but it was the 
Evening Echo that took the major writing honours, with John Marquis being 
voted Provincial Journalist of the Year in 1974 and Melanie Phillips being 
named Young Journalist of the Year in 1975. Many outstanding journalists 
worked on both papers during their heyday, with several going on to be 
editors and leading Fleet Street figures. Unfortunately, the operation 
fell victim to the freesheet revolution of the 1980s, the titles closing 
in 1983 with the loss of 470 jobs. Significant historic local firms include: 
Hemel Hempstead has a mixture of heavy and light engineering companies 
and has attracted a significant number of information technology and telecommunications 
sector companies helped by its proximity to London and the UK motorway 
network. However, (and again in common with many new towns) it has a much 
narrower business base than established centres, particularly Watford and 
St Albans. Significant firms with a local presence include: In 1798 the 
construction of the Grand Junction Canal reached Hemel Hempstead. Now part 
of the Grand Union Canal, it is a popular route for narrowboat pleasure 
craft and is maintained by the Canal & River Trust. Hemel Hempstead railway 
station is located a mile south of the town centre in Boxmoor. It is on 
the West Coast Main Line and there are frequent services between London 
Euston and the Midlands operated by London Midland, with additional direct 
services to South Croydon via the West London Line operated by Southern. 
A railway station previously existed in the town centre, known as the Midland 
railway station, on the former Nickey Line to Harpenden. This station closed 
to passenger services in 1947 (along with the line) and it was demolished 
in 1969.[30] The Hemel Hempstead bus station is situated in Waterhouse 
Street. In 2013 Dacorum Council announced that the bus station will be 
demolished and replaced with a new bus interchange next to the Marlowes 
Shopping Centre on Bridge Street. The project is due to be completed by 
September 2014.[31] In the 1990s the A41 dual carriageway was built to 
the south and west of the town across the upland chalk plateau. Hemel Hempstead 
is also linked to the M1 motorway to the east and the M25 is a few miles 
to the south. The A414 road begins in Hemel Hempstead and forms a largely 
dual carriageway route east west through the county of Hertfordshire to 
Maldon in Essex. The A41, the West Coast railway line and the canal all 
follow the course of the River Bulbourne river valley. A wide range of 
sports and physical activities are catered for within the town and its 
immediate locality. Most sports facilities in the town, and the wider borough, 
are provided through Sportspace (the operating name of Dacorum Sports Trust). 
They have operated several facilities including a sports centre, swimming 
pools and running track previously run by Dacorum Borough Council and others 
sited at schools, since April 2004. Dacorum Sports Trust is a non-profit 
company limited by guarantee and a registered charity managed by a Board 
of Trustees. Surpluses (profits) are reinvested into sports facilities.[32] 
Hemel Hempstead Town football club dates back to 1885 and now play in the 
Conference South. Nicknamed The Tudors, they play at Vauxhall Road in the 
Adeyfield area of the town; this was the site of the former sports club 
for the employees of Brocks Fireworks. There are, of course, many amateur 
sides throughout the town. Camelot Rugby Club is a rugby union club founded 
in 1919 and play in London 2 North West, a seventh tier league in the English 
rugby union league system. The club's home ground is at Chaulden Lane, 
Chaulden.[33] In rugby league, Hemel Stags, founded in 1981, were admitted 
to the third tier Championship 1 in the 2013 season and now operate as 
a semi-professional club. In addition, rugby league is played at every 
senior school in the town. Hemel Hempstead Town Cricket Club, founded in 
1850, has a pitch and practice facilities at Heath Park, near the town 
centre. The Boxmoor Cricket Club, founded in 1857, have a ground nearby 
on Blackbirds Moor. At Leverstock Green, there is the eponymously named 
Leverstock Green Cricket Club. A large multiple roomed indoor laser tag 
arena called Quasar has been located in the Marlowes since 1994.[34] Hemel 
Hempstead has an indoor snow centre, a real snow indoor sports venue which, 
opened in April 2009, and offers a range of indoor snow based sports and 
activities. Dacorum Athletic Club is based at Jarman Park. Hemel Hempstead 
Bowls Club has its greens at Gadebridge Park. Gadebridge Park also has 
an outdoor skatepark that was designed and supplied by local extreme sports 
fanatics "Hemel Skates" after earning ₤65,000 through fundraising. Leverstock 
Green Tennis Club provides courts and coaching for members and other courts 
are available in public parks. There are private indoor facilities at Hemel 
Indoor Tennis Centre at Abbot's Hill School, Nash Mills. The local authority 
(Dacorum Borough Council) provides the infrastructure for several of the 
sports mentioned above. In addition, there is a sports centre at Boxmoor 
and shared public facilities at a number of secondary schools, provided 
via Sportspace. These provide multi-purpose courts (badminton, basketball, 
etc.), gymnasia and swimming pools. There are also private, 'members only' 
gymnasia. There are two 18-hole golf courses just outside the south western 
edge of the town. One is in the grounds of Shendish Manor and the other, 
Little Hay is off Box Lane, on Box Moor Trust land. There was also a 9-hole 
course (Boxmoor) also located on Box Lane. This closed in July 2011, and 
is now overgrown, mainly used for people walking their dogs. Wildcards 
Roller Hockey Club was established in 1996 and is a non-profit making organisation 
run by volunteers to enable people to play Inline Hockey in Hertfordshire. 
Jarman Park had a ten pin bowling alley, ice skating, and a swimming pool 
with slides until they closed at the end of 2013. The only 2 facilities 
left in Jarman Park are the XC an extreme sport centre with indoor skate 
boarding, rock climbing, bowls and potholing facilities. Close to Jarman 
Park is the Snow Centre, the UK's largest indoor ski slope. Hemel Hempstead 
has several swimming clubs the most notable of which is Hemel Hempstead 
Swimming Club, the town also has FIFOLITS Swimming club and also boasts 
a swimming squad Dacorum Borough Swimming Squad which brings together the 
best swimmers in the borough. There are six state maintained secondary 
schools in the town: There are also independent (fee-paying) schools in, 
or adjacent, to the town: In addition there is a West Herts College Campus 
based in the town centre. In 2006, the local education authority has judged 
that there are too many primary school places in the town and has published 
proposals to reduce them.[35] The options involved school amalgamations 
and closures. A list of schools taking children of primary age is at primary 
schools in Dacorum. Hemel Hempstead returns its own MP at Westminster as 
the Hemel Hempstead parliamentary constituency. At the May 2005 General 
election the seat changed from Labour to Conservative. Mike Penning, (Conservative), 
was elected with a majority of 499, just over 1%.[36] In May 2010 Mike 
Penning was again returned as MP taking 50% of the vote with an increased 
majority of 13,406.[37] The previous MP was Tony McWalter, (Labour Co-operative), 
first elected 1997. Hemel Hempstead, as part of the Borough of Dacorum, 
is twinned with: Hemel is famous for its "Magic Roundabout" (officially 
called the "Plough Roundabout" from a former adjacent public house), an 
interchange at the end of the town centre (Moor End), where traffic from 
six routes meet. Traffic is able to circulate in both directions around 
what appears to be a main central roundabout (which it used to be), with 
the normal rules applying at each of the six mini-roundabouts encircling 
this central reservation. It was the first such circulation system in Britain. 
Hemel claims to have the first purpose built multi-storey car park in Britain. 
Built in 1960 into the side of a hill in the Marlowes shopping district, 
it features a giant humorous mosaic map of the area by the artist Rowland 
Emett. The new town centre contains many sculptures by notable artists 
from the 1950s including a 1955 stone mural by sculptor Alfred Gerrard 
entitled Stages in the Development of Man. There is also the Rock & Rollers 
sculpture, which once resided outside Bank Court but has been moved to 
the water gardens, Water Play, a fountain, a 3D map of 1940s Hemel, and 
the Residents' Rainbow, a concrete and glass rainbow sculpture in the Marlowes 
that has become an unofficial war memorial.[38] The new town centre is 
laid out alongside landscaped gardens and water features formed from the 
River Gade known as the Watergardens designed by G. A. Jellicoe. The Watergardens 
is home to many ducks, which have been known to cause major delays on the 
surrounding roads. The main shopping street, Marlowes, was pedestrianised 
in the early 1990s. Hemel also was home of one of the first community based 
television stations West Herts TV which later became Channel 10. For many 
years the lower end of Marlowes featured a distinctive office building 
built as a bridge-like structure straddling the main road. This building 
was erected on the site of an earlier railway viaduct carrying the Hemel 
to Harpenden railway, known as the Nickey Line. When the new town was constructed, 
this part of the railway was no longer in use and the viaduct demolished. 
The Nickey Line is now used for walking. The office building, occupied 
by BP, was designed to create a similar skyline and effect as the viaduct. 
In the early 1980s it was discovered that the building was subsiding dangerously 
and it was vacated and demolished. Adjacent to BP buildings was a unique 
double-helix public car park. The lower end of Marlowes was redeveloped 
into the Riverside shopping complex, which opened on 27 October 2005. Retailers 
taking residence at the Riverside complex, include Debenhams and H&M (previously 
HMV). A few yards away, overlooking the 'Magic Roundabout', is Hemel's 
tallest building; the 22-storey Kodak building. Built as the Kodak company's 
UK HQ the tower was vacated in 2005. It was then temporarily reoccupied 
in 2006 after the Buncefield explosion destroyed Kodak's other Hemel offices. 
It has since been converted into flats. The Heathrow Airport holding area 
known as the Bovingdon stack lies just west of the town. On a clear day, 
at peak times, several circling aircraft can be visible in the sky. The 
national headquarters of the Boys' Brigade is located at Felden Lodge, 
near Hemel. A series of 33 ft high blue steel arches called the Phoenix 
Gateway has been installed on the roundabout closest to the Hemel Hempstead 
junction of the M1 motorway. The aim is to regenerate the town after the 
Buncefield fire with a striking piece of commercial art. It is funded by 
the East of England Development Agency.[39] In December 2005 a series of 
explosions and fires at Buncefield oil depot was regarded as the largest 
in peace-time Europe.[40] Notable people associated with the town in order 
of birth date: Softly Softly an offshoot from Z Cars used Shendish House 
as the headquarters. Softly Softly started in 1966 The Pavilion was an 
iconic 1960s structure sited on the Marlowes just in front of the library.[46] 
It was an entertainments venue that hosted emerging and internationally 
famous acts between the 1960s and 1990s. Jazz artists included Kenny Ball 
and his Jazzmen, Count Basie, Oscar Peterson and Buddy Rich. Rock and Pop 
acts included David Bowie, Eric Clapton, U2, Wishbone Ash, Talking Heads, 
Ian Dury, Genesis, Quintessence and Status Quo. The venue closed and the 
building demolished in 2002. According to local media reports Dacorum Borough 
Council decided it was 'becoming increasingly unsuitable to meet the leisure 
needs of the local community'. A 'memorial service' was held on the tenth 
anniversary of its closure in 2012.[47][48] For a full list of public art 
works see List of public art in Hemel Hempstead The woods at Cupid's Green, 
painted by Ashley George Old in 1959 The Old Bell pub in Hemel old town 
has parts built in 1615 but is on the site of even older inns. Contains 
some unusual French wallpaper dating back to 1821, which has been cleaned 
by the Victoria & Albert Museum. This 1971 office block formed Kodak's 
European HQ until closed in 2006. In 2010 it was being converted into flats. 
In the foreground is the River Gade and to the right a road sign for the 
'Magic Roundabout'. Apsley Lock Marina, Hemel Hempstead, built in 2003. 
The Church of St Mary's (1871) stands above the modern Sainsbury's supermarket 
in Apsley. Northeast side of the Magic Roundabout, Hemel Hempstead. The 
"roundabout" is a series of 6 mini roundabouts spaced around a larger closely 
looped circulation system. Hemel Hempstead Old Town. A Southern train at 
Hemel Hempstead "How historic treasures have devalued a house", Sunday 
