Henry Eckford (1775–1832) was a Scottish-born American shipbuilder, naval 
architect, industrial engineer, and entrepreneur who worked for the United 
States Navy and the navy of the Ottoman Empire in the early 19th century. 
After building a national reputation in the United States through his shipbuilding 
successes during the War of 1812, he became a prominent business and political 
figure in New York City in the 1810s, 1820s, and early 1830s. Eckford was 
born in Kilwinning, Scotland, to Henry Eckford and Janet Black (a possibly 
unmarried couple)[1] on 12 March 1775, the youngest of five sons. The family 
soon moved to nearby Irvine, where he attended school and became a lifelong 
friend of schoolmate John Galt, a future novelist. As a boy, Eckford trained 
as a ship's carpenter somewhere in Ayrshire, probably in the shipyard at 
Irvine on the Firth of Clyde.[2][3] In 1791, at the age of 16, Eckford 
left Scotland – to which he never returned – to begin a five-year shipbuilding 
apprenticeship with his mother's brother, the noted Scottish-born Canadian 
shipwright John Black, at a shipyard Black had established on the St. Lawrence 
River in Lower Canada. Eckford proved to be a hard worker and quick learner, 
with a flair for shipbuilding and ship design. When Black moved to Kingston 
on Lake Ontario late in 1792, Eckford followed to continue his apprenticeship, 
but the two soon went their separate ways, with Black moving to Quebec 
City to pursue revolutionary politics while Eckford stayed behind in Kingston 
to continue to learn the shipbuilding trade. In 1794, Eckford joined a 
Freemason Lodge in Kingston, beginning a long association with Freemasonry.[2][4] 
In 1796, Eckford reached the age of 21 and completed his apprenticeship, 
becoming a shipwright (or "mechanic") with the title "master builder." 
He emigrated to the United States that year, settling in New York City 
– a booming city with a flourishing shipbuilding industry – to work as 
a journeyman in a boatyard on the East River.[2][5] In April 1799, the 
24-year-old Eckford married 20-year-old Marion Bedell (1776 – 28 August 
1840). They had nine children: Sarah Eckford Drake (1800–1828), Janet Eckford 
De Kay (1802–1854), Mary Ann Eckford (1804–1804), John Henry Eckford (1805–1828), 
Henrietta Eckford (1806–1828), Eliza Eckford Irving (1811–1866), Henry 
Eckford, Jr. (1816–? ), Franklin Drake Eckford (1820–1820), and Joseph 
Eckford (?–?).[6][7][8][9] Sarah Eckford married the noted American poet 
Joseph Rodman Drake in 1816, and the couple gave Eckford his first grandchild 
in 1819.[10] Janet Eckford married the American zoologist James Ellsworth 
De Kay. In 1799 or 1800, Eckford moved into a house on Long Island and 
opened his own shipyard on the East River in Brooklyn.[11][12] He designed 
and built his first ship, the three-masted Sportsman (later renamed Samuel 
Elam) of 324 gross tons, in 1800. Around 1802, he sold his yard and moved 
back across the river to New York City, where he and Edward or Lester Beebe 
(sources differ)[13] opened a new shipyard together. The yard prospered, 
turning out a series of ships that were handy and seaworthy, and upon which 
Eckford built a reputation as a talented shipbuilder.[9] He also befriended 
the successful New York shipbuilder Christian Bergh, and on 10 June 1803, 
became a United States citizen.[12] He joined the Society of Mechanics 
and Tradesmen of the City of New York and a Freemason lodge, where he met 
such prominent New Yorkers as Mayor DeWitt Clinton, Governor Daniel Tompkins, 
Chancellor Robert Livingston, and John Jacob Astor, with whom he formed 
a lasting business partnership.[14] Eckford built the three-masted ship 
Beaver (427 tons) for Astor in 1805, and the great success of the ship 
established him as one of New York's best naval architects and shipbuilders. 
Later in the year, he constructed the ship Magdalen for Astor, and in 1808 
he built the brig Sylph for him.[15] Eckford did his first shipbuilding 
work for the US Navy beginning in 1806,[16] when the Eckford & Beebe shipyard 
built coastal gunboats for the Navy. In July 1808, Christian Bergh invited 
Eckford to join him in building the 14-gun US Navy brig USS Oneida at Oswego, 
New York, on Lake Ontario. Although he did not design Oneida, the project 
enhanced his reputation further with the US Navy and gave him experience 
in shipbuilding under the primitive conditions then prevailing along the 
New York shore of Lake Ontario.[17] Returning to New York City in 1809, 
Eckford bought out his partner Beebe and became sole owner of a new shipyard 
he established which would remain his main place of business for the rest 
of his life. For Astor, he built the brig Fox in 1809 and the ship Hannibal 
in 1810.[15] Fox in particular was noted for her great speed thanks to 
the streamlined hull form Eckford designed for her, making the trip from 
Calcutta, India, to New York City in only 90 days – a record that would 
stand for 40 years – and making the round trip from New York to Calcutta 
and back in only seven months and 14 days. It was the speed of his ships 
thanks to their revolutionary hull form that gained Eckford great fame 
in the 19th century.[18] In September 1810, Eckford took on 16-year-old 
Isaac Webb as an apprentice at his yard. In the following years, Eckford 
would take on many other apprentices who would become important naval architects 
and shipbuilders in their own right, including Jacob Bell, William Bennett, 
David Brown, Andrew Craft, John Dimon, John Englis, Thomas Megson, Stephen 
Smith, and Sidney Wright. In thus spreading naval architecture and shipbuilding 
expertise, Eckford made a significant contribution to the growth of American 
shipbuilding.[19] After the War of 1812 began in June 1812, Eckford offered 
his services to United States Secretary of the Navy Paul Hamilton in a 
letter of 8 July 1812. US Navy Commodore Isaac Chauncey was placed in command 
of all Navy forces in the Great Lakes region, and he had known Eckford 
since Chauncey had been master of John Jacob Astor's Eckford-built ship 
Beaver in 1806–1807[9] and had supervised Eckford & Beebe's construction 
of US Navy gunboats in 1808. Chauncey visited New York City in the first 
week of September 1812 to meet with Eckford and his fellow shipbuilders 
Christian Bergh and Adam and Noah Brown about the problem of building a 
fleet of warships on Lake Ontario. Eckford, with experience in building 
ships in both Kingstown and Oswego, was an obvious choice for building 
ships for Chauncey on the Great Lakes, and Adam and Noah Brown also agreed 
to head north to design and build Chauncey's fleet, while Bergh agreed 
to remain in New York City and oversee the transportation of men and materiel 
north to Lake Ontario.[20] Suspending all work at his New York shipyard, 
Eckford gathered his apprentices and his best workers and set out a few 
days after the meeting with Chauncey for the approximately 300-mile (480-km) 
journey to Sackets Harbor, New York, on the northeastern shore of Lake 
Ontario, where he set about establishing a naval base and shipyard. He 
was the first of the men at the meeting to arrive on the Great Lakes. Chauncey 
joined him at Sackets Harbor on 6 October 1812, establishing his headquarters 
there, and finding that Eckford already had a shipyard in operation and 
had laid the keel of the 42-gun frigate USS Madison.[9][20] Despite terrible 
winter weather, Eckford not only quickly established a shipyard, but also 
quarters for the shipbuilders, mess and kitchen buildings, a hospital, 
offices, and blockhouses,[21] in what once had been merely a quiet hamlet, 
and made Sackets Harbor one of the US Navy's main bases during the war, 
also taking the opportunity to invest in real estate in the area. With 
the shipyard in operation, Eckford took time away from it in December 1812 
to join Chauncey in an inspection tour of American military and shipyard 
facilities on the Great Lakes and, finding the yards on Lake Erie at Erie, 
Pennsylvania, and Black Rock, New York, struggling, made suggestions to 
their staffs on how to improve their shipbuilding efforts. Chauncey wrote 
to Noah Brown to hurry north from New York City and take charge at Erie, 
which Brown did in February 1813 while his brother Adam remained in New 
York City to work with Christian Bergh in ensuring that Noah received the 
men and supplies he needed. Noah Brown later moved to Lake Champlain, and 
later still to Sackets Harbor, where he joined Eckford in ship design and 
construction activities.[9][22] At the Sackets Harbor shipyard, where Eckford 
had a work force of over 200 carpenters by April 1813 and of over 400 by 
April 1814 and where he employed over 800 men by January 1815, Eckford 
and the Browns combined to build all US Navy men-of-war launched on Lake 
Ontario during the war. By 1814, the Sackets Harbor yard had converted 
some Great Lakes merchant vessels to carry guns and also had launched eight 
new purpose-built warships. Among the converted ships was the sloop-of-war 
USS Trippe; the new purpose-built warships ranged in size from the 89-ton 
schooner USS Lady of the Lake launched in 1813, to the never-finished 3,200-ton, 
106-gun ship-of-the-line USS New Orleans, and also included the corvette 
USS General Pike in 1813 and the frigate USS Superior in 1814. Eckford 
understood that the American war effort on the Great Lakes required the 
US Navy to keep ahead of British shipbuilding in Canada, and that speedy 
construction and delivery of warships was critical. Using prefabrication 
in New York City and on-site assembly in Sackets Harbor, he achieved what 
were considered breathtaking construction rates. Among the yard's most 
spectacular feats was the rapid construction of Madison, which took only 
nine weeks from the cutting of her timbers, and only 45 days from keel-laying, 
to launch on 26 November 1812; the yard went on to beat that record in 
November 1814 by taking only five weeks between laying the keel of the 
frigate USS Mohawk and launching her.[9][23] The Sackets Harbor yard also 
built smaller ships in record time; the schooner USS Sylph took only 21 
days from keel-laying to launch in 1813.[24] Eckford also demonstrated 
a facility for dealing with labour crises, as demonstrated by an incident 
on 1 May 1814, when a United States Army soldier on sentry duty at Sackets 
Harbor shot and killed a carpenter after the launching of USS Superior, 
provoking an armed confrontation between soldiers and shipyard workers, 
who threatened to go on strike and go home, crippling American shibuilding 
on the Great Lakes; Eckford joined Chauncey and the US Army commander, 
Major General Jacob Brown, in talking to the men and defusing the situation, 
avoiding further violence and allowing shipyard work to continue.[25] With 
both the Browns and Eckford active at Sackets Harbor, it has become a bit 
murky as to what extent Eckford was involved in the building of some of 
the ships there. He was in charge of all shipbuilding there and probably 
prepared plans for most of the ships, but the Browns' contracts were independent 
of his, proposals for the Browns and Eckford to combine forces to build 
some of the ships do not appear to have borne fruit, and some of the ships 
the Browns built may have borrowed from Eckford's plans without him being 
otherwise involved in their construction. Despite tradition that he was, 
Eckford may not have been in involved the construction of New Orleans,[26] 
but Lady of the Lake, Superior, General Pike, Madison, and Mohawk were 
his.[9] Eckford extended extensive credit to the United States Government 
during the war, going bankrupt in the process because of difficulty the 
government had in paying him, although he never doubted that it eventually 
would.[27] His efforts, along with those of Adam and Noah Brown, were key 
to American success on Lake Ontario during the War of 1812. Chauncey wrote 
in praise of Eckford to Secretary of the Navy William Jones on 8 October 
1813, saying, "...yet as Mr. Eckford has built 4 vessels at this place, 
and has become acquainted with the resources and people of this part of 
the country, I think that he could have built sooner and perhaps cheaper 
than perhaps any other man, and as to his talents as a ship carpenter, 
I am bold to say that there is not his equal in the United States, or perhaps 
the world. His exertions are unexampled...,"[28] and in a letter of 15 
January 1814, Jones replied, "The talents and zeal of Mr. Eckford the builder, 
is a source of great satisfaction and confidence, which assures me that 
though the enemy has made great progress in the building of his two largest 
vessels, he will be over taken and surpassed in this branch of service 
by the superior energy and judgment of Mr. Eckford."[28] In the words of 
maritime historian Howard I. Chapelle, "It was Eckford's extraordinary 
ability to design, lay down, and build ships, ranging in size from a very 
small schooner to the largest frigates, working in a wilderness and in 
severe winter weather with sick or dissatisfied labor, and to do all this 
in extremely short periods of time, that maintained American superiority 
on Lake Ontario."[29] Chapelle continues, "From a naval shipbuilding point 
of view, the outstanding men of the War of 1812 were Eckford and the Browns, 
Adam and Noah. Through the efforts of these three, the [U.S.] Navy held 
control of the lakes and prevented the British from invading the North 
and Northwest [i.e., modern-day Ohio]... No officer or constructor of the 
Navy accomplished more. There were no competitors to the Browns and Eckford 
among the navy yards, or in the contract shipyards along the coasts, [even 
though] on the lakes... building was made infinitely more difficult than 
on the coast because of climate and geographical conditions, to say nothing 
of scarcities of labor and some materials."[30] One advantage Eckford and 
the Browns may have had was a lack of attention by US government officials 
to their activities; Federal officials focused their efforts on the coasts, 
where they greatly interfered with shipbuilding decisions and progress 
during the war.[21] When word reached Sackets Harbor in late February 1815 
that the War of 1812 had ended, Chauncey ordered Eckford and his employees 
to suspend all operations at Sackets Harbor and return home, leaving the 
never-launched USS New Orleans, planned as the largest ship in the world 
at the time, behind on the building ways. His work at Sackets Harbor had 
earned Eckford a national reputation as a hero of the war, and he returned 
to New York City to great praise for his wartime work on the Great Lakes.[31] 
After returning to New York City, Eckford quickly became involved in naval 
design and construction at his yard there.[21] The market for such ships 
was depressed after the war, however, so he took a job with the Navy as 
chief naval constructor at the Brooklyn Navy Yard in 1817, which he probably 
viewed as a temporary position until the market improved for privately 
built ships. While there, he and his apprentice Isaac Webb oversaw construction 
of the schooner USS Grampus, launched in 1821 and considered one of the 
fastest schooners of the day until she capsized and sank in a storm with 
the loss of all hands off Charleston, South Carolina, in 1843.[32] In 1817, 
the Brooklyn Navy Yard laid down the largely Eckford-designed 74-gun frigate 
USS Ohio; she was launched in 1820 and established a model upon which "74s" 
were built thereafter. Eckford resigned from his post at the yard on 6 
June 1820, the week after Ohio was launched, and returned to running his 
private shipyard.[33] Ohio, however, would not see service for years. Funding 
for her completion was not forthcoming because the navy was not a high 
priority during the quiet 1820s and 1830s. Tradition holds that the ship 
also ran afoul of naval politics; it has been claimed that the Board of 
Navy Commissioners, led by Commodore John Rodgers, felt that Eckford had 
ignored their design for Ohio and blocked her completion.[34] Chapelle, 
however, claims that no acrimony at all can be found in documents regarding 
the construction of Ohio, and that Eckford's design varied little from 
the Commissioners' ideas and sparked no controversy, and he ascribes the 
notion of a dispute between the Commissioners and Eckford to tradition. 
Ohio was considered a fine ship and she served in the Navy until 1883, 
and Eckford's departure from the Brooklyn Navy Yard probably had more to 
do with his own view of his employment there being a temporary position 
rather than any dispute he had with naval authorities.[35] Again in private 
life, Eckford returned to commercial shipbuilding, including the construction 
for John Jacob Astor of the ships Isabella and Henry Astor of 1820 and 
the brig Tamaahmaah of 1824.[14] Eckford's family moved in New York City's 
higher social circles, and he expanded his business interests, including 
ventures in the shipping, banking, insurance, and publishing sectors. He 
also became involved in politics, serving in the 40th New York State Legislature 
as a Democratic-Republican member of the New York State Assembly from 1816 
to 1817, running unsuccessfully for the United States House of Representatives 
as a Clintonian Federalist in New York's 2nd congressional district in 
1821, and serving in the Electoral College. At his shipyard, he built ships 
for the United States Government, including three lightships.[36] Eckford's 
political activities led him to become part of the leadership of Tammany 
Hall. On 15 September 1826, he and other Tammany Hall leaders were indicted 
for committing millions of dollars in acts of fraud against banks, insurance 
companies, and private citizens. The first trial in the case ended in a 
hung jury in October 1826. Eckford was not brought to trial again, although 
other defendants were convicted in a second trial. Eckford sought an apology 
and public statement of his innocence from District Attorney Hugh Maxwell, 
but succeeded only in having Maxwell make a statement that Eckford had 
been duped by others into illegal acts. Eckford challenged Maxwell to a 
duel in December 1827, but Maxwell ignored him.[37] Thanks to Eckford's 
political connections, five different Congresses considered bills for the 
financial relief of Eckford and his heirs over the course of many years 
following the scandal.[38] In addition to his financial and legal problems, 
Eckford faced family tragedy. His oldest child Sarah, widowed when Joseph 
Rodman Drake suddenly died of consumption in 1820, fell ill in the autumn 
of 1827. On 23 January 1828, while caring for Sarah, Eckford's 19-year-old 
daughter Henrietta was badly burned when a fireplace set her dress on fire, 
and Eckford's 22-year-old son John also suffered severe burns while beating 
out the flames with his hands; within a few days, both Henrietta and John 
died of their injuries. Sarah Eckford meanwhile, never recovered from her 
illness; she lingered until 29 November 1828, when she died at the age 
of 28.[10] In the 1820s, American shipyards began to build ships for foreign 
navies. Eckford was part of this trend; in 1830, for example, he built 
the sloop-of-war Kensington in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, for the Imperial 
Russian Navy, although ultimately the ship was delivered to Mexico instead.[39] 
After a shattering defeat of its navy in the Battle of Navarino in October 
1827, the Ottoman Empire began looking for help in rebuilding its fleet. 
Eckford, seeking to rebuild his fortune and reputation after the scandals 
of 1826 and 1827, left New York in June 1831[40] aboard the new 1,000-ton, 
26-gun corvette United States, which his yard had built on speculation 
in 1830–1831[41] and which he hoped to sell to the Ottomans. Eckford and 
his ship arrived in Constantinople in mid-August 1831. United States reputedly 
was a fast sailer, although she did not make particularly good time on 
her voyage from New York to Constantinople.[40] At first, Sultan Mahmud 
II thought that United States had arrived as a gift of the American government. 
Once he realised that she was a privately owned ship and was for sale, 
he purchased her. In the Ottoman Navy, she became Mesir-i Ferah.[40] Mahmud 
II then hired Eckford, who began to build ships in the Turkish shipyard 
for the Ottoman Navy, starting with a small schooner, a frigate, and a 
74-gun ship constructed using a frame imported from New York City. He also 
began to design the 128-gun ship-of-the-line Mahmoudieh. Mahmud II was 
impressed enough to consider giving Eckford a high imperial rank.[40] Eckford's 
quick start in Ottoman service ended when he died suddenly in Constantinople 
on 12 November 1832, probably of cholera. Appropriately, his body was shipped 
home to New York City aboard the barque Henry Eckford, second ship of the 
name. He is buried with his wife in the cemetery at St. George's Episcopal 
Church in Hempstead, New York.[6][42] The North Ayrshire, Scotland, town 
council calls Henry Eckford "the father of the U.S. Navy."[38] Various 
19th-century baseball teams in the United States were named in honour of 
Henry Eckford. The most prominent one was Eckford of Brooklyn, a Brooklyn, 
New York, baseball team composed largely of local shipwrights;[38] it played 
from 1855 to 1872 and was the national champion in 1862 and 1863. For at 
least four seasons, from 1860 to 1864, a separate "Henry Eckford" team 
also played in Brooklyn, while other teams named "Eckford" played in Albany, 
New York, from 1864 to 1867, in Syracuse, New York, in 1870, and in Newark, 
New Jersey, in 1870.[43] In 2011, a 19th century baseball club, composed 
of players from Long Island, was organized and adopted the name "Eckford 
of Brooklyn" or "Eckford Base Ball Club of Brooklyn". The club plays its 
home games at the Old Bethpage Village Restoration in Old Bethpage, New 
York, winning the in-house OBVR championship in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 
The 21st century Eckfords have quickly become one of the premier 19th century 
base ball clubs in the United States. In the late 19th century, a series 
of cigar bands commemorating important figures of the 19th century included 
Henry Eckford along with industrialist and philanthropist Andrew Carnegie, 
merchant and yachtsman Sir Thomas Lipton, inventor Samuel F. B. Morse, 
and industrialist and philanthropist Cornelius Vanderbilt.[9] The first 
steamboat with a compound engine, the commercial passenger-cargo steamer 
PS Henry Eckford, built in 1824 by Mowatt Brothers and Company and in service 
until 1841, was named for Henry Eckford. One U.S. Navy ship, the fleet 
replenishment oiler USNS Henry Eckford (T-AO-192), has been named for Henry 
Eckford.[38] Launched in 1989, she was never completed, and finally was 
scrapped in 2011. Eckford Street in the Greenpoint neighborhood of Brooklyn, 
New York, is named for Henry Eckford. A chain of lakes in the Adirondack 
Mountains in Indian Lake, New York, that Eckford surveyed in 1811 are named 
