Henry James Killilea (June 30, 1863 – January 23, 1929) was an American 
baseball team owner and attorney. He was one of the founders of baseball's 
American League. He also played college football and baseball at the University 
of Michigan. Killilea was born in Poygan, Wisconsin, in 1863. His parents, 
Matthew and Mary Killilea emigrated from Ireland in 1849 and established 
a farm in Winnebago County, Wisconsin. Killilea was raised on the family 
farm and attended public school in Winneconne, Wisconsin.[1] After completing 
grade school, Killilea attended Oshkosh Normal School (now University of 
Wisconsin–Oshkosh) and then taught school at Clay Banks, Wisconsin.[1] 
In the fall of 1882, Killilea enrolled at the University of Michigan, where 
he studied law.[1] He also played for the Michigan Wolverines baseball 
team and for the 1883 and 1884 Michigan Wolverines football teams. He played 
at the forward position on the 1883 team,[2] and as a senior, he played 
at the center position and was manager of the undefeated 1884 team that 
outscored its two opponents, 36-10.[3] He graduated from Michigan in 1885. 
After graduating from Michigan, Killilea established a law practice in 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, in 1885. He specialized in trial practice, with much 
of his early practice constituting criminal defense. He gained attention 
for his defense of a school teacher who broke a student's neck. He later 
worked as counsel to the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railroad.[1] Killilea 
also had a long association with professional baseball. His younger brother, 
Matthew Killilea, became the president of the Milwaukee Brewers of the 
Western League, and Henry became a minority owner.[4] In the fall of 1899, 
Killilea and his younger brother, Matthew Killilea, were among the five 
men who founded baseball's American League,[5] changing the name of the 
old Western League to the American League in 1900. The other members of 
the group were Connie Mack, Charles Comiskey, and the leader of the effort, 
Ban Johnson. Their first meeting was held in Killilea's home at 1616 Grand 
Avenue in Milwaukee.[1][4] While Ban Johnson is regarded as the father 
of the American League, the Sporting Life in July 1904 dubbed Killilea 
"the godfather of the American League."[6] Killilea's other significant 
efforts in the early years of the league include the following: Upon the 
organization of the American League, Killilea became the majority owner 
of the Milwaukee Brewers. In 1901, the American League began to operate 
as a major league which included the Brewers. The 1901 Milwaukee Brewers 
finished in last place with a 48–89 record. In approximately July 1901, 
league president Ban Johnson began negotiating with Killilea and his brother, 
Matthew Killilea, with respect to moving the club out of Milwaukee. In 
December 1901, the majority of the league's owners decided to eliminate 
the Milwaukee club and move it to St. Louis as the St. Louis Browns. Displeased 
with the decision of the owners, Killilea announced his intention to sell 
his interest in the club.[14] In late January 1902, Killilea and his younger 
brother, Matthew Killilea, sold their interested in the club to a group 
in St. Louis.[15] In late January 1902, shortly after announcing his sale 
of the Milwaukee club, Killilea announced that he had in August 1901 acquired 
five-ninths of the Boston Americans from Charles Somers and had more recently 
acquired the remaining four-ninths. However, it was agreed that Somers 
would continue to hold one share of stock so that he could remain the club's 
president.[16] The Boston Post at the time described the Killilea brothers 
as "capable baseball men" and noted that Henry had "been immensely fortunate 
and built a big legal practice" and become "one of the wealthiest attorneys" 
in Milwaukee.[17] Killilea reportedly paid $60,000 for the Boston ball 
club.[4] In 1903, Killilea authorized player-manager Jimmy Collins to spend 
approximately $56,000 of Killilea's money to put together a championship 
club.[4] Killilea's 1903 Boston Americans featured Buck Freeman, who led 
the league in 1903 with 13 home runs and 104 RBIs, Cy Young, who led the 
league with 28 wins and 341-2/3 inning pitched, Patsy Dougherty, who hit 
.331 and led the league with 107 runs and 195 hits.[18] The team won the 
American League pennant and went on to defeat the Pittsburgh Pirates in 
the inaugural World Series.[19] In December 1903, it was reported that 
Killilea sought to sell the Boston club, acquire the Detroit Tigers, and 
then move that club to Milwaukee.[20] Killilea initially agreed to sell 
the club to John F. Fitzgerald, grandfather of John F. Kennedy, but American 
League president Ban Johnson refused to ratify the transaction. On April 
18, 1904, Killilea sold the Boston club to John I. Taylor at a price reported 
to be $150,000. At the time, Killilea said, "It is with the deepest regret 
that I sever my relations with the Boston club. My business in Milwaukee 
demands it. The club is a money maker, and my experience in Boston has 
been of the pleasantest kind. It is the greatest baseball town in the country."[21] 
After selling the Boston club, Killilea acquired an interest in the Cleveland 
Naps in 1904 and, in June 1904, was in discussions to purchase the Washington 
club.[22] It is uncertain whether Killilea retained ownership in any club 
after the 1904 season. However, he remained actively involve in the game 
as one of the nation's leading baseball lawyers. After representing the 
American Association and the Eastern League in litigation seeking higher 
classifications from the National Commission (baseball former body of authority), 
the Sporting Life praised Killilea for his "consummate skill and convincing 
eloquence" and added: "Not the least of Mr. Killilea's merits was the fact 
that he successfully combined aggressiveness with diplomacy; that as author 
of the present National Agreement he was familiar with his ground at all 
times; and that he possessed the acquaintance, respect, and confidence 
of nearly all of the major league magnates. Such advantages are possessed 
by no other lawyer of this generation so far as the National game is concerned, 
and they make Mr. Killilea the chief of the very small coterie of "base 
ball lawyers."[23] In January 1928, Killilea returned to baseball as a 
club owner. He purchased the Milwaukee Brewers of the American Association 
club. During his one year as the team's owner, the Brewers registered a 
90-78 record.[4] Killilea was married in 1888 to Louise Meinderman who 
graduated that year from the University of Michigan.[1] They had two children, 
Florence and Harry. He died in Milwaukee in January 1929, at age 65, after 
suffering from a heart attack at his Milwaukee law office. He was taken 
to a Milwaukee hospital where he suffered a paralytic stroke and remained 
unconscious for two days before his death.[5][24] Following Killilea's 
death, his 24-year-old daughter Florence Killilea assumed control of the 
