Herbert Clark Hoover (August 10, 1874 – October 20, 1964) was an American 
politician who served as the 31st President of the United States from 1929 
to 1933. A Republican, as Secretary of Commerce in the 1920s he introduced 
Progressive Era themes of efficiency in the business community and provided 
government support for standardization, efficiency and international trade. 
As president from 1929 to 1933, his ambitious programs were overwhelmed 
by the Great Depression, that seemed to get worse every year despite the 
increasingly large-scale interventions he made in the economy. He was defeated 
in a landslide in 1932 by Democrat Franklin D. Roosevelt, and spent the 
rest of his life as a conservative denouncing big government, liberalism 
and federal intervention in economic affairs, as Democrats repeatedly used 
his Depression record to attack conservatism and justify more regulation 
of the economy. He was a professional mining engineer and was raised as 
a Quaker. Hoover served as head of the U.S. Food Administration during 
World War I, and became internationally known for humanitarian relief efforts 
in wartime Belgium.[1] As the United States Secretary of Commerce in the 
1920s he promoted partnerships between government and business. In the 
presidential election of 1928, Hoover easily won the Republican nomination, 
despite having no elected-office experience. Hoover is the most recent 
cabinet secretary to be elected President of the United States, as well 
as one of only three Presidents (along with William Howard Taft and Donald 
Trump) who had neither been elected to a national political office or governorship, 
nor served as military generals.[2] Although Hoover never raised the religious 
issue, some of his supporters did in mobilizing anti-Catholic sentiment 
against his opponent Al Smith. Hoover, a globally experienced engineer, 
believed strongly in the Efficiency Movement, which held that the government 
and the economy were riddled with inefficiency and waste, and could be 
improved by experts who could identify the problems and solve them. He 
also believed in the importance of volunteerism and of the role of individuals 
in society and the economy. A rich man, Hoover donated all his federal 
paychecks to charity.[3] When the Wall Street Crash of 1929 struck less 
than eight months after he took office, Hoover tried to combat the ensuing 
Great Depression in the United States with large-scale government public 
works projects such as the Hoover Dam, and calls on industry to keep wages 
high. He reluctantly approved the Smoot–Hawley Tariff, which sent foreign 
trade spiralling down. He believed it was essential to balance the budget 
despite falling tax revenue, so he raised the tax rates. The economy kept 
falling and unemployment rates rose to about 25%. This downward spiral, 
plus his support for prohibition policies that had lost favor, set the 
stage for Hoover's overwhelming defeat in 1932 by Democrat Franklin D. 
Roosevelt, who promised a New Deal. After Roosevelt assumed the Presidency 
in 1933, Hoover became a conservative spokesman for opposition to the domestic 
and foreign policies of the New Deal. In 1947, President Harry S. Truman 
appointed Hoover to head the Hoover Commission, intended to foster greater 
efficiency throughout the federal bureaucracy. Most historians agree that 
Hoover's defeat in the 1932 election was caused primarily by the downward 
economic spiral, although his strong support for prohibition was also significant. 
Hoover is usually ranked lower than average among U.S. Presidents. Herbert 
Hoover was born on August 10, 1874, in West Branch, Iowa, the first of 
his office born in that state and west of the Mississippi River. His father, 
Jesse Hoover (1849–80), was a blacksmith and farm implement store owner, 
of German (Pfautz, Wehmeyer), German-Swiss (Huber, Burkhart), and British 
Isles ancestry. Jesse Hoover and his father Eli had moved to Iowa from 
Ohio twenty years previously.[4] Hoover's mother, Hulda Randall Minthorn 
(1849–84), was born in Norwich, Ontario, Canada, and was of English and 
Irish ancestry. Both of his parents were Quakers. At about age two he contracted 
the croup. He was so ill that he was momentarily thought to have died, 
until he was resuscitated by his uncle, John Minthorn.[5] As a child, he 
was often called by his father "my little stick in the mud", since he repeatedly 
was trapped in the mud while crossing an unpaved street.[6] Hoover's family 
figured prominently in the town's public prayer life, due almost entirely 
to Hulda's role in her church.[7] His father, noted by the local paper 
for his "pleasant, sunshiny disposition", died in 1880. After working to 
retire her husband's debts, retain their life insurance, and care for the 
children, his mother died in 1884, leaving Hoover (age nine), his older 
brother, and his younger sister as orphans.[8] Fellow Quaker Lawrie Tatum 
was appointed as Hoover's guardian. After a brief stay with one of his 
grandmothers in Kingsley, Iowa, Hoover lived the next 18 months with his 
uncle Allen Hoover in West Branch. In November 1885, he went to Newberg, 
Oregon, to live with his uncle Dr. John Minthorn, a physician and businessman 
whose own son had died the year before. The Minthorn household was considered 
cultured and educational, and imparted a strong work ethic.[9] For two-and-a-half 
years, Hoover attended Friends Pacific Academy (now George Fox University), 
and then worked as an office assistant in his uncle's real estate office, 
the Oregon Land Company, in Salem, Oregon. Though he did not attend high 
school, Hoover attended night school and learned bookkeeping, typing and 
mathematics.[10] Hoover entered Stanford University in 1891, its inaugural 
year, after failing all the entrance exams (except mathematics) and then 
being tutored for the summer in Palo Alto.[11] The first-year students 
were not required to pay tuition.[10] Hoover claimed to be the very first 
student at Stanford, by virtue of having been the first person in the first 
class to sleep in the dormitory.[12] While at the university, he was the 
student manager of both the baseball and football teams and was a part 
of the inaugural Big Game versus rival the University of California and 
friend (CAL Manager) Herbert Lang.[13] Only 10,000 tickets were printed 
for the inaugural game and 20,000 people showed up. Both Hoover and Lang 
had to find pots, bowls and any other available receptacles to collect 
admission fees.[14] Stanford won the game.[12][15]:21–22 Hoover graduated 
in 1895 with a degree in geology.[16] He earned his way through four years 
of college working various jobs on and off campus, including the Geological 
Survey of Arkansas and the United States Geological Survey.[17] Throughout 
his tenure at Stanford, he was adamantly opposed to the fraternity system.[18] 
After graduation, Hoover worked in the gold mining districts of Nevada 
City and Grass Valley, California, before landing a job with the mining 
engineering firm of Louis Janin.[15]:25–28 Hoover went to Western Australia 
in 1897 as an employee of Bewick, Moreing & Co., a London-based gold mining 
company. His geological training and work experience were well suited for 
the firm's objectives.[19] He worked at gold mines in Big Bell, Cue, Gwalia, 
Menzies, and Coolgardie.[20][21] Hoover first went to Coolgardie, then 
the center of the Western Australian goldfields, where he worked under 
Edward Hooper, a company partner. Conditions were harsh in these goldfields 
even though he got a $5,000 salary (equivalent to $100,000 today).[22] 
In the Coolgardie and Murchison rangelands on the edge of the Great Victoria 
Desert, Hoover described the region as a land of "black flies, red dust 
and white heat".[23] He served as a geologist and mining engineer while 
searching the Western Australian goldfields for investments. After being 
appointed as mine manager at the age of 23, he led a major program of expansion 
for the Sons of Gwalia gold mine at Gwalia,[15]:33–34,78[24]:202 and brought 
in many Italian immigrants to cut costs and counter the union militancy 
of the Australian miners.[25][26] He believed "the rivalry between the 
Italians and the other men was of no small benefit."[25] He also described 
Italians as "fully 20 per cent superior"[25] to other miners. During his 
time at Gwalia, Hoover first met Fleury James Lyster, a pioneering metallurgist.[27][28] 
In Western Australia friends called Hoover "H.C." or the old nickname "Hail 
Columbia".[29] An open feud developed between Hoover and his boss Ernest 
Williams, with Hoover persuading four other mine managers to conspire against 
his rival. The firm's principals then offered Hoover a compelling promotion 
which would relocate him to China and also end the feud.[30] Hoover then 
began to take stock of his private life, including contemplating the separation 
from his Stanford sweetheart, Lou Henry. Hoover promptly sent a cable of 
proposal to her, and subsequently married Lou Henry, in 1899. She had been 
an Episcopalian and became a Quaker. The Hoovers had two sons, Herbert 
Charles Hoover (1903–1969) and Allan Henry Hoover (1907–1993). Before that, 
however, the happily married couple went to China, where Hoover had been 
sent by his firm in part to remove him from disputes with his supervisor 
in Australia.[citation needed] His work revolved around the situation of 
the huge Kaiping Mines. Hoover worked as chief engineer for the Chinese 
Bureau of Mines, and as general manager for the Chinese Engineering and 
Mining Corporation.[31] Later he worked for Bewick, Moreing & Co. as the 
company's lead engineer. Hoover's wife learned Mandarin Chinese (she was 
a first-rate linguist), and he also learned some of the language while 
he worked in China; it is said that they used it during his tenure at the 
White House when they wanted to foil eavesdroppers.[32] Hoover made recommendations 
to improve the lot of the Chinese worker, seeking to end the practice of 
imposing long term servitude contracts and to institute reforms for workers 
based on merit.[33] The Boxer Rebellion trapped the Hoovers in Tianjin 
in June 1900. For almost a month, the settlement was under fire, and both 
dedicated themselves to defense of their city. Hoover himself guided U.S. 
Marines around Tianjin during the battle, using his knowledge of the local 
terrain.[34] Mrs. Hoover meanwhile devoted her efforts at the various hospitals 
and even wielded, and willingly and accurately deployed, a .38-caliber 
pistol.[35] Hoover was made a partner in Bewick, Moreing & Co. on December 
18, 1901 and assumed responsibility for various Australian operations and 
investments.[36] His initial compensation rose to $12,500 annually in addition 
to a 20% share of profits.[37] The company eventually controlled at one 
point approximately 50% of gold production in Western Australia.[38] In 
1901, Hoover no longer lived in Australia, but he visited the country in 
1902, 1903, 1905, and 1907 as an overseas investor. Hoover was also a director 
of Chinese Engineering and Mining Corporation (CEMC) when it became a supplier 
of immigrant labor from Southeast Asia for South African mines.[39] The 
first shipment of almost 2,000 workers arrived in Durban from Qinhuangdao 
in July 1904. By 1906, the total number of immigrant workers increased 
to 50,000, almost entirely recruited and shipped by CEMC. When the living 
and working conditions of the laborers became known, public opposition 
to the scheme grew and questions were asked in the British Parliament.[40] 
The scheme was abandoned in 1911. In August–September 1905, he founded 
the Zinc Corporation (eventually part of the Rio Tinto Group) with William 
Baillieu and others. The lead-silver ore produced at Broken Hill, New South 
Wales was rich in zinc. But the zinc could not be recovered due to "the 
Sulphide Problem", and was left in the tailings that remained after the 
silver and lead was extracted.[41] Zinc Corporation proposed to buy the 
tailings and extract the zinc by a new process. The froth flotation process 
was then being developed at Broken Hill, although the Zinc Corporation 
struggled to apply it.[42] Hoover was in Australia in 1905. F.J. Lyster, 
originally a carpenter before becoming a foreman in the gravity mill, perfected 
the "Lyster Process",[27] which enabled the Zinc Corporation to operate 
the world's first selective or differential flotation plant, According 
the Geoffrey Blainey, though the process was not fully understood, a patent 
was applied for in May 1912.[24] Hoover's brother, Theodore J. Hoover, 
also came to Broken Hill. "Broken Hill was one of the dreariest places 
in the world at this time. It lay in the middle of the desert, was unbelievably 
hot in summer, had no fresh water, no vegetation, and mountains of tailings 
blew into every crack with every wisp of wind."[43] Despite these miserable 
conditions, Hoover and his associates became suppliers to world industry 
of zinc and other vital base minerals. In 1908, Hoover became an independent 
mining consultant, traveling worldwide until the outbreak of World War 
I in 1914. He left Bewick, Moreing & Co and, setting out on his own, eventually 
ended up with investments on every continent and offices in San Francisco, 
London, New York City, St. Petersburg, Paris and Mandalay, Burma.[44] He 
had his second successful venture with the British firm Burma Corporation, 
again producing silver, lead, and zinc in large quantities at the Namtu 
Bawdwin Mine, where he caught malaria in 1907.[15]:90–96,101–102[45] He 
also helped increase copper production in Kyshtym, Russia, through the 
use of pyritic smelting. Then he agreed to manage one of the Russian Czar's 
Cabinet Mines located in the Altai Mountains. The oxidized lead-zinc-silver 
ore contained copper and gold as well. According to Hoover, "It developed 
probably the greatest and richest single body of ore known in the world" 
before the Communist Revolution.[15]:102–108[46] While living in London, 
noting the American engineer's patriotic intensity, some British acquaintances 
referred to him as the "star-spangled Hoover". It recalled the nickname 
he had acquired in the Australian outback: "Hail Columbia" Hoover.[47] 
The Bawdwin mine ultimately became the chief source of Hoover's fortune.[48] 
In his spare time, Hoover wrote. His lectures at Columbia and Stanford 
universities were published in 1909 as Principles of Mining,[49] which 
became a standard textbook. Hoover and his wife also published their English 
translation of the 1556 mining classic De re metallica in 1912. This translation 
from the Latin of Renaissance author Georgius Agricola is still the most 
important scholarly version and provides its historical context.[50] It 
is still in print. By 1914, Hoover was a wealthy man, with an estimated 
personal fortune of $4 million.[51] He was once quoted as saying "If a 
man has not made a million dollars by the time he is forty, he is not worth 
much".[52] By 1914, Hoover stood eventually to obtain what he later described 
as "a large fortune from these Russian industries, probably more than is 
good for anybody".[53] Sixty-six years after opening the mine in 1897, 
Hoover still had a partial share in the Sons of Gwalia mine when it finally 
closed in 1963, just one year before the former President's death in New 
York City in 1964. The successful mine had yielded $55m in gold and $10m 
in dividends for investors.[15] Herbert Hoover, acting as a main investor, 
financier, mining speculator, and organizer of men, played a major role 
in the important metallurgical developments that occurred in Broken Hill 
in the first decade of the twentieth century, developments that had a great 
impact on the mining and production of silver, lead, and zinc.[54][55][56][57][58][59] 
In later years Hoover thought of himself and his associates as "engineering 
doctors to sick concerns", hence his reputation as the "Doctor of sick 
mines".[60] When World War I began in August 1914, Hoover helped organize 
the return of around 120,000 Americans from Europe. He led 500 volunteers 
in distributing food, clothing, steamship tickets and cash.[61] "I did 
not realize it at the moment, but on August 3, 1914, my career was over 
forever. I was on the slippery road of public life."[62] Hoover liked to 
say that the difference between dictatorship and democracy was simple: 
dictators organize from the top down, democracies from the bottom up. When 
Belgium faced a food crisis after being invaded by Germany in 1914, Hoover 
undertook an unprecedented relief effort with the Commission for Relief 
in Belgium (CRB).[63] As chairman of the CRB, Hoover worked with the leader 
of the Belgian Comité National de Secours et d'Alimentation (CNSA), Émile 
Francqui, to feed the entire nation for the duration of the war. The CRB 
obtained and imported millions of tons of foodstuffs for the CNSA to distribute, 
and watched over the CNSA to make sure the German army didn't appropriate 
the food. The CRB became a veritable independent republic of relief, with 
its own flag, navy, factories, mills, and railroads. Private donations 
and government grants (78%) supplied an $11-million-a-month budget.[64] 
For the next two years, Hoover worked 14-hour days from London, administering 
the distribution of over two million tons of food to nine million war victims. 
In an early form of shuttle diplomacy, he crossed the North Sea forty times 
to meet with German authorities and persuade them to allow food shipments, 
becoming an international hero. The Belgian city of Leuven named a prominent 
square Hooverplein after him. At its peak, Hoover's American Relief Administration 
(ARA) fed 10.5 million people daily. Great Britain grew reluctant to support 
the CRB, preferring instead to emphasize Germany's obligation to supply 
the relief; Winston Churchill, whom Hoover intensely disliked, led a military 
faction that considered the Belgian relief effort "a positive military 
disaster". During this time, Hoover made a strong impression on the American 
Ambassador to Great Britain, Walter Page. In a Memoranda dated December 
30, 1916, Page wrote: Mr. Herbert C. Hoover, Chairman of the Commission 
for Relief in Belgium, would, if opportunity should offer, make a useful 
officer in the State Department. He is probably the only man living who 
has privately (i.e., without holding office) negotiated understandings 
with the British, French, German, Dutch, and Belgian governments. He personally 
knows and has had direct dealings with these governments, and his transactions 
with them have involved several hundred million dollars. He is a man of 
very considerable fortune—less than when the war began, for tins relief 
work has cost him much. He was approached on behalf of the British Government 
with the suggestion that if he would become a British subject the Government 
would be pleased to give him an important executive post and with the hint 
that if he succeeded a title might await him. His answer was: "I'll do 
what I can for you with pleasure; but I'll be damned if I'll give up my 
American citizenship—not on your life!" Within the last six months two 
large financial organizations, each independently, have offered him $100,000 
a year to enter their service; and an industrial company offered him $100,000 
"to start with." He declined them all. When the Belgian relief work recently 
struck a financial snag, Hoover by telegraph got the promise of a loan 
in the United States to the British and French governments for Belgian 
relief of $150,000,000. After the United States entered the war in April 
1917, President Woodrow Wilson appointed Hoover to head the U.S. Food Administration, 
which was created under the Lever Food Control Act in 1917. This was a 
position he actively sought, though he later claimed it was thrust upon 
him. He was convinced from his Belgian work that centralization of authority 
was essential to any relief effort; he demanded, and got, great power albeit 
not as much as he sought.[65] Hoover believed "food will win the war"; 
and beginning on September 29, this slogan was introduced and put into 
frequent use.[66] He carefully selected men to assist in the agency leadership 
– Alonzo Taylor (technical abilities), Robert Taft (political associations), 
Gifford Pinchot (agricultural influence) and Julius Barnes (business acumen).[67] 
Hoover established set days for people to avoid eating specified foods 
and save them for soldiers' rations: meatless Mondays, wheatless Wednesdays, 
and "when in doubt, eat potatoes". This program helped reduce consumption 
of foodstuffs needed overseas and avoided rationing at home. It was dubbed 
"Hooverizing" by government publicists, in spite of Hoover's continual 
orders that publicity should not mention him by name. The agency employed 
a system of price controls and licensing requirements for suppliers to 
maximize production. Despite efforts to prevent it, some companies reaped 
great profits.[68] After the war, as a member of the Supreme Economic Council 
and head of the American Relief Administration, Hoover organized shipments 
of food for millions of starving people in Central Europe. He used a newly 
formed Quaker organization, the American Friends Service Committee, to 
carry out much of the logistical work in Europe. Hoover provided aid to 
the defeated German nation after the war, as well as relief to famine-stricken 
Bolshevik-controlled areas of Russia in 1921, despite the opposition of 
Senator Henry Cabot Lodge and other Republicans. When asked if he was not 
thus helping Bolshevism, Hoover retorted, "Twenty million people are starving. 
Whatever their politics, they shall be fed!". However, Hoover also realized 
that his control of food aid provided him significant leverage over the 
new Bolshevik regime and successfully parlayed it into the release of Xenophon 
Kalamatiano among others.[69] The Russian famine of 1921–22 claimed 6 million 
people.[70] In July 1922, Soviet author Maxim Gorky wrote to Hoover: Your 
help will enter history as a unique, gigantic achievement, worthy of the 
greatest glory, which will long remain in the memory of millions of Russians 
whom you have saved from death.[71] At war's end, the New York Times named 
Hoover one of the "Ten Most Important Living Americans". Hoover confronted 
a world of political possibilities when he returned home in 1919. Democratic 
Party leaders saw him as a potential Presidential candidate, and President 
Wilson privately preferred Hoover as his successor. "There could not be 
a finer one," asserted Franklin D. Roosevelt, then a rising star from New 
York. Hoover briefly considered becoming a Democrat, but he believed that 
1920 would be a Republican year. Also, Hoover confessed that he could not 
run for a party whose only member in his boyhood home had been the town 
drunk. Hoover realized that he was in a unique position to collect information 
about the Great War and its aftermath. In 1919 he established the Hoover 
War Collection at Stanford University. He donated all the files of the 
Commission for Relief in Belgium, the U.S. Food Administration, and the 
American Relief Administration, and pledged $50,000 as an endowment. Scholars 
were sent to Europe to collect pamphlets, society publications, government 
documents, newspapers, posters, proclamations, and other ephemeral materials 
related to the war and the revolutions that followed it. The collection 
was later renamed the Hoover War Library and is now known as the Hoover 
Institution. Hoover rejected the Democratic Party's overtures in 1920. 
He had been a registered Republican before the war, though he had supported 
Theodore Roosevelt's "Bull Moose" Progressive Party in 1912. Now he declared 
himself a Republican and a candidate for the Presidency. He placed his 
name on the ballot in the California state primary election, where he nearly 
beat popular Senator Hiram Johnson. But having lost in his home state, 
Hoover was not considered a serious contender at the convention. Even when 
it deadlocked for several ballots between Illinois Governor Frank Lowden 
and General Leonard Wood, few delegates seriously considered Hoover as 
a compromise choice. Although he had personal misgivings about the capability 
of the nominee, Warren G. Harding, Hoover publicly endorsed him and made 
two speeches for Harding. After being elected, Harding rewarded Hoover 
for his support, offering to appoint him either Secretary of the Interior 
or Secretary of Commerce. Hoover ultimately chose Commerce. Commerce had 
existed for just eight years, since the division of the earlier Department 
of Commerce and Labor. Commerce was considered a minor Cabinet post, with 
limited and vaguely defined responsibilities. Hoover aimed to change that, 
envisioning the Commerce Department as the hub of the nation's growth and 
stability. From Harding he demanded, and received, authority to coordinate 
economic affairs throughout the government. He created many sub-departments 
and committees, overseeing and regulating everything from manufacturing 
statistics, the census and radio, to air travel. In some instances he "seized" 
control of responsibilities from other Cabinet departments when he deemed 
that they were not carrying out their responsibilities well. Hoover became 
one of the most visible men in the country, often overshadowing Presidents 
Harding and Coolidge. Washington wags referred to Hoover as "the Secretary 
of Commerce... and Under-Secretary of Everything Else!" As secretary and 
later as President, Hoover revolutionized relations between business and 
government. Rejecting the adversarial stance of Theodore Roosevelt, William 
Howard Taft, and Woodrow Wilson, he sought to make the Commerce Department 
a powerful service organization, empowered to forge cooperative voluntary 
partnerships between government and business. This philosophy is often 
called "associationalism". Both the U.S. Department of Justice and the 
Federal Trade Commission opposed Hoover's goals,[72] but the U.S. Supreme 
Court ruled in Maple Flooring Manufacturers' Assn. v. United States 268 
U.S. 563 (1925) that Hoover's policies served the public interest by producing 
"fairer price levels" and "avoid[ing] waste."[73] Many of Hoover's efforts 
as Commerce Secretary centered on eliminating waste and increasing efficiency 
in business and industry. This included reducing labor losses from trade 
disputes and seasonal fluctuations, reducing industrial losses from accident 
and injury, and reducing the amount of crude oil spilled during extraction 
and shipping. One major achievement was to promote product standardizations. 
He promoted international trade by opening overseas offices to advise businessmen. 
Hoover was especially eager to promote Hollywood films overseas.[74] His 
"Own Your Own Home" campaign was a collaboration to promote ownership of 
single-family dwellings, with groups such as the Better Houses in America 
movement, the Architects' Small House Service Bureau, and the Home Modernizing 
Bureau. He worked with bankers and the savings and loan industry to promote 
the new long-term home mortgage, which dramatically stimulated home construction.[75] 
It has been suggested that Herbert Hoover was the best Secretary of Commerce 
in United States history.[76][77] Hoover was the last President to have 
held a full cabinet position. Hoover's detractors wondered why he did not 
do anything to reapportion congress after the 1920 United States Census 
which saw an increase in urban and immigrant populations. The 1920 Census 
was the first and only Decennial Census where the results were not used 
to reapportion Congress; which ultimately influenced the 1928 Electoral 
College and impacted the Presidential Election.[78][79] Hoover's radio 
conferences played a key role in the early organization, development and 
regulation of radio broadcasting. Prior to the Radio Act of 1927, the Secretary 
of Commerce was unable to deny radio licensing or reassign broadcast frequencies. 
With help from supporters Senator Dill and Representative White, Hoover 
brought the issue of radio control to the Senate floor. Hoover fought for 
more power to control the proliferation of licensed radio stations (which 
in 1927, stood at 732 stations). With help from Dill and White, Hoover 
promoted the Dill-White Bill which eventually would become the Radio Act 
of 1927. This act allowed the government to intervene and abolish radio 
stations that were deemed "non-useful" to the public. Hoover's attempts 
at regulating radio were not supported by all Congressmen, and he received 
much opposition from the Senate and from radio station owners. However, 
Hoover's contributions to regulate radio in its infancy heavily influenced 
the modern radio system.[80] Hoover contributed to major projects for navigation, 
irrigation of dry lands, electrical power, and flood control. As the new 
air transport industry developed, Hoover held a conference on aviation 
to promote codes and regulations. He became President of the American Child 
Health Organization, and he raised private funds to promote health education 
in schools and communities. Although he continued to consider Harding ill-suited 
to be President, the two men nevertheless became friends. Hoover accompanied 
Harding on his final trip out West in 1923. It was Hoover who called for 
a specialist to tend to the ailing Chief Executive, and it was also Hoover 
who contacted the White House to inform them of the President's death. 
The Commerce Secretary headed the group of dignitaries accompanying Harding's 
body back to the capital. By the end of Hoover's service as Secretary, 
he had raised the status of the Department of Commerce. This was reflected 
in its modern headquarters built during the Roosevelt Administration in 
the 1930s in the Federal Triangle in Washington, D.C. As Commerce Secretary, 
Hoover also hosted two national conferences on street traffic, in 1924 
and 1926 (a third convened in 1930, during Hoover's presidency). Collectively 
the meetings were called the National Conference on Street and Highway 
Safety. Hoover's chief objective was to address the growing casualty toll 
of traffic accidents, but the scope grew and soon embraced motor vehicle 
standards, rules of the road, and urban traffic control. He left the invited 
interest groups to negotiate agreements among themselves, which were then 
presented for adoption by states and localities. Because automotive trade 
associations were the best organized, many of the positions taken by the 
conferences reflected their interests. The conferences issued a model Uniform 
Vehicle Code for adoption by the states, and a Model Municipal Traffic 
Ordinance for adoption by cities. Both were widely influential, promoting 
greater uniformity between jurisdictions and tending to promote the automobile's 
priority in city streets.[81] The Great Mississippi Flood of 1927 broke 
the banks and levees of the lower Mississippi River in early 1927, resulting 
in flooding of millions of acres and leaving 1.5 million people displaced 
from their homes. Although such a disaster did not fall under the duties 
of the Commerce Department, the governors of six states along the Mississippi 
specifically asked for Herbert Hoover in the emergency. President Calvin 
Coolidge sent Hoover to mobilize state and local authorities, militia, 
army engineers, the Coast Guard, and the American Red Cross. With a grant 
from the Rockefeller Foundation, Hoover set up health units to work in 
the flooded regions for a year. These workers stamped out malaria, pellagra, 
and typhoid fever from many areas. His work during the flood brought Herbert 
Hoover to the front page of newspapers almost everywhere, and he gained 
new accolades as a humanitarian. The great victory of his relief work, 
he stressed, was not that the government rushed in and provided all assistance; 
it was that much of the assistance available was provided by private citizens 
and organizations in response to his appeals. "I suppose I could have called 
in the Army to help", he said, "but why should I, when I only had to call 
upon Main Street." The treatment of African-Americans during the disaster 
endangered Hoover's reputation as a humanitarian. Local officials brutalized 
black farmers and prevented them from leaving relief camps, aid intended 
for African-American sharecroppers was often given instead to the landowners, 
and black men often were conscripted by locals into forced labor, sometimes 
at gun point.[82] Knowing the potential damage to his presidential hopes 
if this became public, Hoover struck a deal with Robert Russa Moton,[83] 
the prominent African-American successor to Booker T. Washington as president 
of the Tuskegee Institute. In exchange for keeping the sufferings of African-Americans 
quiet, Hoover promised unprecedented influence for African-Americans should 
he become president. Moton agreed, and following the accommodationist philosophy 
of Washington, he worked actively[83] to conceal the information from the 
media. When President Calvin Coolidge announced in August 1927 that he 
would not seek a second full term of office in the 1928 presidential election, 
Hoover became the leading Republican candidate, despite the fact Coolidge 
was lukewarm on Hoover, often deriding his ambitious and popular Commerce 
Secretary as "Wonder Boy".[84] Coolidge had been reluctant to choose Hoover 
as his successor; on one occasion he remarked that "for six years that 
man has given me unsolicited advice—all of it bad. I was particularly offended 
by his comment to 'shit or get off the pot'."[85] Even so, Coolidge had 
no desire to split the party by publicly opposing the popular Commerce 
Secretary's nomination.[86] Hoover's only real challenger was Frank Orren 
Lowden, a former governor of Illinois. Hoover received much favorable press 
coverage in the months leading up to the convention. Lowden's campaign 
manager complained that newspapers were full of "nothing but advertisements 
for Herbert Hoover and Fletcher's Castoria". Hoover's reputation, experience, 
and popularity coalesced to give him the Republican nomination on the first 
ballot. The delegates considered nominating Vice President Charles Dawes 
to be Hoover's running mate. But Coolidge (who hated Dawes) remarked that 
this would be "a personal affront" to him. The convention selected Senator 
Charles Curtis of Kansas.[87] Despite running for President, Hoover did 
not resign as Commerce Secretary until August 21, two months after he was 
nominated for the presidency at the Republican National Convention. Hoover 
campaigned for efficiency and the Republican record of prosperity against 
Democrat Alfred E. Smith. Smith likewise was a proponent of efficiency 
earned as governor of New York. Both candidates were pro-business, and 
each promised to improve conditions for farmers, reform immigration laws, 
and maintain America's isolationist foreign policy. Where they differed 
was on the Volstead Act which outlawed the sale of liquor and beer. Smith 
was a "wet" who called for its repeal, whereas Hoover gave limited support 
for prohibition, calling it an "experiment noble in purpose". His use of 
"experiment" suggested it was not permanent. While Smith won extra support 
among Catholics in the big cities Smith was the target of intense anti-Catholicism 
from some Protestant communities, especially as Southern Baptists and German 
Lutherans.[88] Overall the religious factor worked to the advantage of 
Hoover, although he took no part in it.[89] Historians agree that Hoover's 
national reputation and the booming economy, combined with deep splits 
in the Democratic Party over religion and prohibition, guaranteed his landslide 
victory with 58% of the vote.[90] Hoover's appeal to southern white voters 
succeeded in cracking the "Solid South", winning the Democratic strongholds 
of Florida, North Carolina, Virginia, Texas and Tennessee; the Deep South 
continued to support Smith as the Democratic candidate. This was the first 
time that a Republican candidate for president had carried Texas. Hoover 
and the national party had pursued a "lily-white southern strategy" to 
resuscitate the Republican Party in the South, "purging black Republicans 
from leadership positions in the southern wing of the G.O.P."[91] This 
outraged the black leadership, which largely broke from the Republican 
Party, and began seeking candidates who supported civil rights within the 
Democratic Party.[92] In 1956, W. E. B. Du Bois, a leader in the NAACP 
in the 1920s, would recall that "[i]n 1928, Negroes faced absolute dilemma. 
Neither Hoover nor Smith wanted the Negro vote and both publicly insulted 
us."[93] Hoover held a press conference on his first day in office, promising 
a "new phase of press relations".[94] He asked the group of journalists 
to elect a committee to recommend improvements to the White House press 
conference. Hoover declined to use a spokesman, instead asking reporters 
to directly quote him and giving them handouts with his statements ahead 
of time. In his first 120 days in office, he held more regular and frequent 
press conferences than any other President, before or since. However, he 
changed his press policies after the 1929 stock market crash, screening 
reporters and greatly reducing his availability.[94] Lou Henry Hoover was 
an activist First Lady. She typified the new woman of the post–World War 
I era: intelligent, robust, and aware of multiple female possibilities.[95] 
White House physician Admiral Joel T. Boone invented the sport Hooverball 
to keep Hoover fit while in the White House. Hooverball is a combination 
of volleyball and tennis, played with a 6 lb medicine ball. Hoover and 
several staff members played it each morning, earning them the nickname 
Medicine Ball Cabinet.[96] On poverty, Hoover said that "Given the chance 
to go forward with the policies of the last eight years, we shall soon 
with the help of God, be in sight of the day when poverty will be banished 
from this nation",[97] and promised, "We in America today are nearer to 
the final triumph over poverty than ever before in the history of any land," 
but within months, the Stock Market Crash of 1929 occurred, and the world's 
economy spiraled downward into the Great Depression.[98] Hoover entered 
office with a plan to reform the nation's regulatory system, believing 
that a federal bureaucracy should have limited regulation over a country's 
economic system.[99] A self-described progressive and reformer, Hoover 
saw the presidency as a vehicle for improving the conditions of all Americans 
by encouraging public-private cooperation—what he termed "volunteerism". 
Hoover saw volunteerism as preferable to governmental coercion or intervention 
which he saw as opposed to the American ideals of individualism and self-reliance.[100] 
Long before entering politics, he had actually denounced laissez-faire 
thinking.[101] Hoover expanded civil service coverage of federal positions, 
canceled private oil leases on government lands, and by instructing the 
Justice Department and the Internal Revenue Service to pursue gangsters 
for tax evasion, he enabled the prosecution of mobster Al Capone. He appointed 
a commission that set aside 3,000,000 acres (12,000 km²) of national parks 
and 2,300,000 acres of national forests; advocated tax reduction for low-income 
Americans (not enacted); closed certain tax loopholes for the wealthy; 
doubled the number of veterans' hospital facilities; negotiated a treaty 
on St. Lawrence Seaway (which failed in the U.S. Senate); wrote a Children's 
Charter that advocated protection of every child regardless of race or 
gender; created an antitrust division in the Justice Department; required 
air mail carriers to adopt stricter safety measures and improve service; 
proposed federal loans for urban slum clearances (not enacted); organized 
the Federal Bureau of Prisons; reorganized the Bureau of Indian Affairs; 
instituted prison reform; proposed a federal Department of Education (not 
enacted); advocated $50-per-month pensions for Americans over 65 (not enacted); 
chaired White House conferences on child health, protection, homebuilding 
and home-ownership; began construction of the Boulder Dam (later renamed 
Hoover Dam); and signed the Norris–La Guardia Act that limited judicial 
intervention in labor disputes.[citation needed] On November 19, 1928, 
President-elect Hoover embarked on a ten-nation goodwill tour of Latin 
America. He delivered twenty-five speeches, almost all of which stressed 
his plans to reduce American political and military interference in Latin 
American affairs. In sum, he pledged that the United States would act as 
a "good neighbor."[102][103] Potential disaster was averted when an Argentine 
anarchist intent on assassinating Hoover was arrested. Hoover professed 
unconcern, tearing off the front page of a newspaper that revealed the 
plot and explaining, "It's just as well that Lou shouldn't see it."[104] 
Following the release in 1930 of the Clark Memorandum, Hoover began formulating 
what would become Roosevelt's Good Neighbor policy. He began withdrawing 
American troops from Nicaragua and Haiti; he also proposed an arms embargo 
on Latin America and a one-third reduction of the world's naval power, 
which was called the Hoover Plan. The Roosevelt Corollary ceased being 
part of U.S. foreign policy. In response to the Japanese invasion of Manchuria, 
he and Secretary of State Henry Stimson outlined the Hoover–Stimson Doctrine 
which held that the United States would not recognize territories gained 
by force.[105] Hoover mediated between Chile and Peru to solve a conflict 
on the sovereignty of Arica and Tacna, that in 1883 by the Treaty of Ancón 
had been awarded to Chile for ten years, to be followed by a plebiscite 
that had never happened. By the Tacna–Arica compromise at the Treaty of 
Lima in 1929, Chile kept Arica, and Peru regained Tacna. Hoover seldom 
mentioned civil rights while he was President. He believed that African-Americans 
and other races could improve themselves with education and individual 
initiative.[106] He opposed federal anti-lynching laws, and when lynchings 
occurred in the South, including one incident linked to his party's efforts 
to 'Republicanize' southern states, he offered only verbal condemnation.[91] 
Hoover attempted to appoint John J. Parker of North Carolina to the Supreme 
Court in 1930 to replace Edward Sanford. The NAACP claimed that Parker 
had made many court decisions against African-Americans, and they fought 
the nomination. The NAACP was successful in gaining Senator William Borah's 
support and the nomination was defeated by two votes (39-41) in the Senate.[107] 
First Lady Lou Hoover defied custom and invited the wife of Republican 
Oscar De Priest, the only African-American member in Congress, to tea at 
the White House. Booker T. Washington was the previous African-American 
to have dined at the White House, with Theodore Roosevelt in 1901.[108] 
Charles Curtis, the nation's first Native American Vice President, was 
from the Kaw tribe in Kansas.[109] Hoover's humanitarian and Quaker reputation, 
along with Curtis as a vice-president, gave special meaning to his Indian 
policies. His Quaker upbringing influenced his views that Native Americans 
needed to achieve economic self-sufficiency. As President, he appointed 
Charles J. Rhoads as commissioner of Indian affairs. Hoover supported Rhoads' 
commitment to Indian assimilation and sought to minimize the federal role 
in Indian affairs. His goal was to have Indians acting as individuals (not 
as tribes) and to assume the responsibilities of citizenship granted with 
the Indian Citizenship Act of 1924.[110] Hoover had long been a proponent 
of the concept that public-private cooperation was the way to achieve high 
long-term growth.[111] Hoover feared that too much government intervention 
would undermine long-term individuality and self-reliance, which he considered 
essential to the nation's future. Both his ideals and the economy were 
put to the test with the onset of the Great Depression.[112] Although many 
people at the time and for decades afterwards denounced Hoover for taking 
a hands-off ("laissez-faire") approach to the Depression,[113] he actually 
pursued an activist policy. Hoover said he rejected Treasury Secretary 
Andrew Mellon's suggested "leave-it-alone" approach,[114] and called many 
business leaders to Washington to urge them not to lay off workers or cut 
wages.[115] Libertarian economist Murray Rothbard argues that Hoover was 
actually the initiator of what came to be the New Deal. Hoover engaged 
in many unprecedented public works programs, including an increase in the 
Federal Buildings program of over $400 million and the establishment of 
the Division of Public Construction to spur public works planning. Hoover 
himself granted more subsidies to ship construction through the Federal 
Shipping Board and asked for a further $175 million appropriation for public 
works; this was followed in July 1930 with the expenditure of a giant $915 
million public works program, including a Hoover Dam on the Colorado River.[116][117] 
In the spring of 1930, Hoover acquired from Congress an added $100 million 
to continue the Federal Farm Board lending and purchasing policies. At 
the end of 1929, the FFB established a national wool cooperative-the National 
Wool Marketing Corporation (NWMC) made up of 30 state associations. The 
Board also established an allied National Wool Credit Corporation to handle 
finances. A total of $31.5 million in loans for wool were made by the FFB, 
of which $12.5 million were permanently lost; these massive agricultural 
subsidies were a precedent for the later Agricultural Adjustment Act.[118][119] 
Hoover also advocated strong labor regulation law, including the enactment 
of the Bacon-Davis Act, requiring a maximum eight-hour day on construction 
of public buildings and the payment of at least the "prevailing wage" in 
the locality, as well as the Norris–La Guardia Act in 1932. In the Banking 
sector, Hoover passed The Federal Home Loan Bank Act in July, 1932, establishing 
12 district banks ruled by a Federal Home Loan Bank Board in a manner similar 
to the Federal Reserve System. $125 million capital was subscribed by the 
Treasury and this was subsequently shifted to the RFC. Hoover was also 
instrumental in passing the Glass–Steagall Act of 1932, allowing for prime 
rediscounting at the Federal Reserve, allowing further inflation of credit 
and bank reserves.[120] Lee Ohanian, from UCLA, argues that Hoover adopted 
pro-labor policies after the 1929 stock market crash that "accounted for 
close to two-thirds of the drop in the nation's gross domestic product 
over the two years that followed, causing what might otherwise have been 
a bad recession to slip into the Great Depression".[121] This minority 
argument is not widely accepted by economic historians.[122] President 
Hoover tried to use the power of government to keep up wage rates after 
the crash of 1929, President Warren Harding had not done so after the crash 
of 1921. In a statement to the public on his view of public or private 
relief efforts in 1931, Hoover argued that his, "own conviction is strongly 
that if we break down this sense of responsibility of individual generosity 
to individual and mutual self-help in the country in times of national 
difficulty and if we start appropriations of this character we have not 
only impaired something infinitely valuable in the life of the American 
people but have struck at the roots of self-government." Hoover thought 
that the strength of the American people lied in their ability to help 
each other in times of need, and to have the government take that away 
would make America loose something amazing that it had. That is why he, 
in his words, attempted to, "mobilize and organize the infinite number 
of agencies of self-help in the community."[123] Hoover's calls for greater 
government intervention increased as the world economy continued to decline. 
He was a firm believer in balanced budgets (as were most Democrats), and 
was unwilling to run a budget deficit to fund welfare programs - instead 
President Hoover greatly increased tax rates on the wealthy, the budget 
went into deficit in spite of (or because of) these tax increases on the 
wealthy.[124] However, Hoover did pursue many policies in an attempt to 
pull the country out of depression. In 1929, he authorized the Mexican 
Repatriation program to help unemployed Mexican citizens return home. The 
program was largely a forced migration of approximately 500,000 people 
to Mexico, and continued until 1937. In June 1930, over the objection of 
many economists, Congress approved and Hoover reluctantly signed into law 
the Smoot–Hawley Tariff Act. The legislation raised tariffs on thousands 
of imported items. The intent of the Act was to encourage the purchase 
of American-made products by increasing the cost of imported goods, while 
raising revenue for the federal government and protecting farmers. However, 
economic depression had spread worldwide, and Canada, France and other 
nations retaliated by raising tariffs on imports from the U.S. The result 
was to contract international trade, and worsen the Depression.[125] In 
1931, Hoover issued the Hoover Moratorium, calling for a one-year halt 
in reparation payments by Germany and in the payment of Allied war debts 
to the United States. The Moratorium did little to ease economic declines. 
As the moratorium neared its expiration the following year, an attempt 
to find a permanent solution was made at the Lausanne Conference of 1932. 
A working compromise was never established, and reparations payments virtually 
stopped.[126][127][128] Hoover in 1931 urged the major banks in the country 
to form a consortium known as the National Credit Corporation (NCC), but 
they did not act.[129] In the U.S. by 1932 unemployment had reached 24.9%,[130] 
businesses defaulted on record numbers of loans, and more than 5,000 banks 
had failed, especially small rural banks.[131] Hundreds of thousands of 
Americans found themselves homeless and began congregating in the numerous 
Hoovervilles (shanty towns) that sprang up in major cities; Democrats tied 
on the nasty name. Congress, desperate to increase federal revenue, enacted 
the Revenue Act of 1932, which was the largest peacetime tax increase in 
history.[132] The Act increased taxes across the board, so that top earners 
were taxed at 63% on their net income - up from 25% when Herbert Hoover 
took office. The 1932 Act also increased the tax on the net income of corporations 
from 12% to 13.75%. The final attempt of the Hoover Administration to rescue 
the economy occurred in 1932 with the passage of the Emergency Relief and 
Construction Act, which authorized funds for public works programs and 
the creation of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation (RFC). The RFC's 
initial goal was to provide government-secured loans to financial institutions, 
railroads and local governments to continue relief programs. The RFC had 
modest impact in 1932-33, but it was adopted by Roosevelt and greatly expanded 
as part of his New Deal.[133] To pay for these and other government programs 
and to make up for revenue lost due to the Depression, in addition to the 
Revenue Act of 1932 Hoover agreed to roll back several tax cuts that his 
Administration had enacted on upper incomes. The estate tax was doubled 
and corporate taxes were raised by almost 15%. Also, a "check tax" was 
included that placed a 2-cent tax (over 30 cents in today's economy) on 
all bank checks. Economists William D. Lastrapes and George Selgin,[134] 
conclude that the check tax was "an important contributing factor to that 
period's severe monetary contraction". Hoover also encouraged Congress 
to investigate the New York Stock Exchange, and this pressure resulted 
in various reforms. Thousands of World War I veterans and their families 
demonstrated and camped out in Washington, DC, during June 1932, calling 
for immediate payment of a bonus that had been promised by the World War 
Adjusted Compensation Act in 1924 for payment in 1945. Although offered 
money by Congress to return home, some members of the "Bonus Army" remained. 
Washington police attempted to remove the demonstrators from their camp, 
but they were outnumbered and unsuccessful. Shots were fired by the police 
in a futile attempt to attain order, and two protesters were killed while 
many officers were injured. Hoover sent U.S. Army forces led by General 
Douglas MacArthur and helped by lower ranking officers Dwight D. Eisenhower 
and George S. Patton to stop a march. MacArthur, believing he was fighting 
a communist revolution, chose to clear out the camp with military force. 
In the ensuing clash, hundreds of civilians were injured. Hoover had sent 
orders that the Army was not to move on the encampment, but MacArthur chose 
to ignore the command. Hoover was incensed, but refused to reprimand MacArthur. 
The entire incident was another devastating negative for Hoover in the 
1932 election. That led New York governor and Democratic presidential candidate 
Franklin Roosevelt to declare of Hoover: "There is nothing inside the man 
but jelly!" Hoover appointed the following Justices to the Supreme Court 
of the United States:[135] Hoover broke party lines to appoint the Democrat 
Cardozo. He explained that he "was one of the ancient believers that the 
Supreme Court should have a strong minority of the opposition's party and 
that all appointments should be made from experienced jurists. When the 
vacancy came... [Hoover] canvassed all the possible Democratic jurists 
and immediately concluded that Justice Cardozo was the right man and appointed 
him."[136] Although Hoover had come to detest the presidency, he agreed 
to run again in 1932, not only as a matter of pride, but also because he 
feared that no other likely Republican candidate would deal with the depression 
without resorting to what Hoover considered dangerously radical measures. 
Hoover was nominated by the Republicans for a second term. He had originally 
planned to make only one or two major speeches, and to leave the rest of 
the campaigning to proxies, but when polls showed that the entire Republican 
ticket could be facing a resounding defeat, Hoover agreed to an expanded 
schedule of public addresses. In his nine major radio addresses Hoover 
primarily defended his administration and his philosophy. The apologetic 
approach did not allow Hoover to refute Democratic nominee Franklin Roosevelt's 
charge that he was personally responsible for the depression.[137] In his 
campaign trips around the country, Hoover was faced with perhaps the most 
hostile crowds of any sitting president. Besides having his train and motorcades 
pelted with eggs and rotten fruit, he was often heckled while speaking, 
and on several occasions, the Secret Service halted attempts to kill Hoover 
by disgruntled citizens, including capturing one man nearing Hoover carrying 
sticks of dynamite, and another already having removed several spikes from 
the rails in front of the President's train.[138] Franklin D. Roosevelt 
blasted Hoover for spending and taxing too much, increasing national debt, 
raising tariffs and blocking trade, as well as placing millions on the 
government dole. Roosevelt attacked Hoover for "reckless and extravagant" 
spending, for thinking "that we ought to center control of everything in 
Washington as rapidly as possible".[139] Roosevelt's running mate, John 
Nance Garner, accused the Republican of "leading the country down the path 
of socialism".[140] Osro Cobb, a leader of the Republican Party in Arkansas 
who became politically and personally close to Hoover, recalls: President 
Hoover had become convinced that the Democrats deliberately were destroying 
the economy of the country and erecting roadblocks against every measure 
he offered to the Congress to restore balance to the economy ... all for 
the purpose of winning an election. Just a few weeks before the 1932 election, 
we were standing near a window in the Oval Office. His cigar was frayed 
and out, and he was in deep thought and obviously troubled. He turned aside 
and said that he had accepted a speaking engagement in Des Moines, Iowa, 
in three days and that the U.S. Secret Service had warned him that it had 
uncovered evidence of plots by radical elements to assassinate him if he 
kept it. Turmoil and uncertainty prevailed in the country, but there was 
absolutely no fear in his expression; to the contrary, there appeared to 
be an abundance of personal courage. Frankly, my heart went out to him, 
but I pointed out that fate and destiny played a part in the lives of all 
presidents and that I felt all possible precautions should be taken to 
protect him but that he should appear and make one of the greatest speeches 
of his administration. He smiled and said, "Osro, that's what I have already 
decided to do. Your concurrence is comforting." ...[141] Despite the late 
campaign endeavors, Hoover sustained a large defeat in the election, having 
procured only 39.7 percent of the popular vote to Roosevelt's 57.4 percent. 
Hoover's popular vote was reduced by 26 percentage points from his result 
in the 1928 election. In the electoral college he carried only Pennsylvania, 
Delaware, and four other Northeastern states to lose 59–472. The Democrats 
extended their control over the U.S. House and gained control of the U.S. 
Senate. After the election, Hoover requested that Roosevelt retain the 
Gold standard as the basis of the US currency, and in effect, continue 
many of the Hoover Administration's economic policies. Roosevelt refused.[142] 
Hoover departed from Washington in March 1933 with some bitterness, disappointed 
both that he had been repudiated by the voters and unappreciated for his 
best efforts. The Hoovers went first to New York City, where they stayed 
for a while in the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel. Later that spring, they returned 
to California to their Stanford residence. Hoover enjoyed returning to 
the men's clubs that he had long been involved with, including the Bohemian 
Club, the Pacific-Union Club, and the University Club in San Francisco.[143] 
Hoover liked to drive his car, accompanied by his wife or a friend (former 
Presidents did not get Secret Service protection until the 1960s), and 
drive on wandering journeys, visiting Western mining camps or small towns 
where he often went unrecognized, or heading up to the mountains, or deep 
into the woods, to go fishing in relative solitude. A year before his death, 
his own fishing days behind him, he published Fishing For Fun—And To Wash 
Your Soul, the last of more than sixteen books in his lifetime. Although 
many of his friends and supporters called upon Hoover to speak out against 
FDR's New Deal and to assume his place as the voice of the "loyal opposition", 
he largely kept himself out of the public spotlight until late in 1934. 
Democratic politicians made him a convenient scapegoat for economic problems. 
The relationship between Hoover and Roosevelt was one of the most severely 
strained in Presidential history. Hoover had little good to say about his 
successor. FDR, in turn, supposedly engaged in various petty official acts 
aimed at his predecessor, ranging from dropping him from the White House 
birthday greetings message list to having Hoover's name struck from the 
Hoover Dam on the Colorado River, which would officially be known only 
as Boulder Dam for many years to come. Like most old Progressives from 
the early 20th century who were still active in the 1930s, Hoover opposed 
the big government ideas of the New Deal, its disinterest in efficiency, 
its hostility to business, and its downplaying of individualism. He made 
common cause with the traditional conservatives.[144] In 1936, Hoover entertained 
hopes of receiving the Republican presidential nomination again, and thus 
facing Roosevelt in a rematch. Although he retained strong support among 
some delegates, his base of support was too narrow. He campaigned for Kansas 
Governor Alf Landon by numerous well-publicized speeches attacking New 
Deal liberalism. He warned that Roosevelt's destruction of personal liberty 
was akin to European fascism.[145] Hoover might as well have been the nominee, 
since the Democrats virtually ignored Landon, and they ran against the 
former President himself, constantly attacking him and warning that a Landon 
victory would put Hoover back in the White House as the secret power behind 
the throne. Roosevelt won 46 of the 48 states, burying Landon in the Electoral 
College, and the Republican Party in Congress in another landslide. Although 
Hoover's reputation was at its low point, circumstances began to rehabilitate 
his name and restore him to prominence. Roosevelt overreached on his Supreme 
Court packing plan, and a further financial recession in 1937 and 1938 
tarnished his image of invincibility. In 1939, former President Herbert 
Hoover became the first Honorary Chairman of Tolstoy Foundation in Valley 
Cottage, New York, and served in this capacity until his death in 1964.[146] 
By 1940, Hoover was again being spoken of as the possible nominee of the 
party in the presidential election. Although he trailed in the polls behind 
Thomas Dewey, Arthur Vandenberg, and his own former protege, Robert A. 
Taft, he still had considerable first-ballot delegate strength, and it 
was believed that if the convention deadlocked between the leading candidates, 
the party might turn to him as its compromise. However, the convention 
nominated the utility company president Wendell Willkie, who had supported 
Roosevelt in 1932 but turned against him after the creation of the Tennessee 
Valley Authority forced him to sell his company. Hoover dutifully supported 
Willkie, although he despaired that the nominee endorsed a platform that, 
to Hoover, was little more than the New Deal in all but name. Hoover visited 
10 European countries in March 1938, the month of Nazi Germany's Anschluss 
of Austria, and stated "I do not believe a widespread war is at all probable 
in the near future. There is a general realization everywhere ... that 
civilization as we know it cannot survive another great war."[147] Like 
many, he initially believed that the European Allies would be able to contain 
Germany, and that Imperial Japan would not attack American interests in 
the Pacific. Unlike Roosevelt's administration, Hoover was a vocal supporter 
of providing relief to countries in Nazi-occupied Europe.[148] He was instrumental 
in creating the Commission for Polish Relief and Finnish Relief Fund.[149][150] 
When the Germans overran France and then had Britain held in a stalemate, 
many Americans saw Britain as on the verge of collapse. Nonetheless, Hoover 
declared that it would be folly for the United States to declare war on 
Germany and to rush to save the United Kingdom. Rather, he held, it was 
far wiser for this nation to devote itself to building up its own defenses, 
and to wash its hands of the mess in Europe. He called for a "Fortress 
America" concept, in which the United States, protected on the East and 
on the West by vast oceans patrolled by its Navy and its Air Corps (the 
USAAF), could adequately repel any attack on the Americas. During a radio 
broadcast on June 29, 1941, one week after the Nazi invasion of the Soviet 
Union, Hoover disparaged any "tacit alliance" between the U.S. and the 
USSR by saying: If we go further and join the war and we win, then we have 
won for Stalin the grip of communism on Russia... Again I say, if we join 
the war and Stalin wins, we have aided him to impose more communism on 
Europe and the world. At least we could not with such a bedfellow say to 
our sons that by making the supreme sacrifice, they are restoring freedom 
to the world. War alongside Stalin to impose freedom is more than a travesty. 
It is a tragedy.[151] When the United States entered the war following 
the December 7, 1941, Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, Hoover swept aside 
all feelings of neutrality and called for total victory. He offered himself 
to the government in any capacity necessary, but the Roosevelt Administration 
did not call upon him to serve. Following World War II, Hoover became friends 
with President Harry S. Truman. Hoover joked that they were for many years 
the sole members of the "trade union" of former Presidents (since Calvin 
Coolidge and Roosevelt had died). Because of Hoover's experience with Germany 
at the end of World War I, in 1946 President Truman selected the former 
president to tour Germany to ascertain the food needs of the occupied nation. 
Hoover toured what was to become West Germany in Hermann Göring's old train 
coach and produced a number of reports critical of U.S. occupation policy. 
The economy of Germany had "sunk to the lowest level in a hundred years".[152] 
He stated in one report: There is the illusion that the New Germany left 
after the annexations can be reduced to a "pastoral state". It cannot be 
done unless we exterminate or move 25,000,000 people out of it.[153] On 
Hoover's initiative, a school meals program in the American and British 
occupation zones of Germany was begun on April 14, 1947. The program served 
3,500,000 children aged six through 18. A total of 40,000 tons of American 
food was provided during the Hooverspeisung (Hoover meals). In 1947, President 
Harry S. Truman appointed Hoover to a commission, which elected him chairman, 
to reorganize the executive departments. This became known as the Hoover 
Commission. He was appointed chairman of a similar commission by President 
Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1953. Both found numerous inefficiencies and ways 
to reduce waste. The government enacted most of the recommendations that 
the two commissions had made: 71% of the first commission's and 64% of 
the second commission's. Throughout the Cold War, Hoover, always an opponent 
of Marxism, became even more outspokenly anti-Communist.[155] However, 
he vehemently opposed American involvement in the Korean War, saying that 
"To commit the sparse ground forces of the non-communist nations into a 
land war against this communist land mass [in Asia] would be a war without 
victory, a war without a successful political terminal... that would be 
the graveyard of millions of American boys and the exhaustion of the United 
States."[156] Despite his advancing years, Hoover continued to work nearly 
full-time both on writing (among his literary works is The Ordeal of Woodrow 
Wilson, a bestseller, and the first time one former President had ever 
written a biography about another), as well as overseeing the Hoover Institution 
at Stanford University, which housed not only his own professional papers, 
but also those of a number of other former high ranking governmental and 
military servants. He also threw himself into fund-raising for the Boys 
Clubs (now the Boys & Girls Clubs of America), which became his pet charity. 
From Coolidge's death in 1933 to Dwight D. Eisenhower's last day of serving 
the presidency in 1961, Hoover had been the only living Republican former 
president. In 1960, Hoover appeared at his final Republican National Convention. 
Since the 1948 convention, he had been feted as the guest of "farewell" 
ceremonies (the unspoken assumption being that the aging former President 
might not survive until the next convention). Joking to the delegates, 
he said, "Apparently, my last three good-byes didn't take." Although he 
lived to see the 1964 convention, ill health prevented him from attending. 
The Presidential nominee Barry Goldwater acknowledged Hoover's absence 
in his acceptance speech. In 1962, Hoover had a malignant intestinal tumor 
removed. Ten months later he had severe gastrointestinal bleeding and seemed 
terminally ill and frail, but his mind was clear and he maintained a great 
deal of correspondence. Although the illness would get worse over time, 
he refused to be hospitalized. Hoover died following massive internal bleeding 
at the age of 90 in his New York City suite at 11:35 a.m. on October 20, 
1964,[157] 31 years, seven months, and sixteen days after leaving office. 
At the time of his death, he had the longest retirement of any President. 
Former President Jimmy Carter surpassed the length of Hoover's retirement 
on September 7, 2012. At the time of Hoover's death he was the second longest-lived 
president after John Adams; both were since surpassed by Gerald Ford, Ronald 
Reagan, George H. W. Bush, and Jimmy Carter. He had outlived by 20 years 
his wife, Lou Henry Hoover, who had died in 1944, and he was the last living 
member of the Coolidge administration. He also outlived both his successor 
Franklin D. Roosevelt, and Eleanor Roosevelt who died in 1945 and 1962, 
respectively. From Coolidge's death on January 5, 1933, until Roosevelt 
was sworn into office on March 4 of that year, Hoover had the distinction 
of being President with no living ex-Presidents. Upon leaving office, Hoover 
was the only living ex-President for nearly 19 years, until Harry Truman 
left office in 1953. By the time of his death, he had rehabilitated his 
image.[158] His birthplace in Iowa and an Oregon home where he lived as 
a child, became National Landmarks during his lifetime. His Rapidan fishing 
camp in Virginia, which he had donated to the government in 1933, is now 
a National Historic Landmark within the Shenandoah National Park. Hoover 
and his wife are buried at the Herbert Hoover Presidential Library and 
Museum in West Branch, Iowa. Hoover was honored with a state funeral, the 
last of three in a span of 12 months, coming as it did just after the deaths 
of President John F. Kennedy and General Douglas MacArthur. Former Chaplain 
of the Senate Frederick Brown Harris officiated. All three had two things 
in common: the commanding general of the Military District of Washington 
during those funerals was Army Major General Philip C. Wehle and the riderless 
horse was Black Jack, who also served in that role during Lyndon B. Johnson's 
funeral.[159][160] In 1912 Hoover published the English edition of the 
medieval mining compendium De Re Metallica (On the Nature of Metals), translated 
from Latin by himself and his wife, who was a geologist and proficient 
in Latin. It remains the standard English translation. Hoover began his 
magnum opus Freedom Betrayed[161] in 1944 as part of a proposed autobiography. 
This turned into a significant work critiquing the foreign policy of the 
United States during the period from the 1930s to 1945. Essentially an 
attack on the statesmanship of Franklin D. Roosevelt, Hoover completed 
this work in his 90th year but it was not published until the historian 
George H. Nash took on the task of editing it. Significant themes are his 
belief that the western democratic powers should have let Nazi Germany 
and Soviet Russia assail and weaken each other, and opposition to the British 
guarantee of Poland's independence.[162] The Herbert Hoover Presidential 
Library and Museum is located in West Branch, Iowa next to the Herbert 
Hoover National Historic Site. The library is one of thirteen presidential 
libraries run by the National Archives and Records Administration. The 
Hoover-Minthorn House, where Hoover lived from 1885 to 1891, is located 
in Newberg, Oregon. The Lou Henry and Herbert Hoover House, built in 1919 
in Stanford, California, is now the official residence of the president 
of Stanford University, and a National Historic Landmark. Also located 
at Stanford is the Hoover Institution, a think tank and research institution 
started by Hoover. Hoover's rustic rural presidential retreat, Rapidan 
Camp (also known as Camp Hoover) in the Shenandoah National Park, Virginia, 
has been restored and opened to the public. The Hoover Dam is named in 
his honor, as are numerous elementary, middle, and high schools across 
the United States. On December 10, 2008, Hoover's great-granddaughter Margaret 
Hoover and Senate of Puerto Rico President Kenneth McClintock unveiled 
a life-sized bronze statue of Hoover at Puerto Rico's Territorial Capitol. 
The statue is one of seven honoring Presidents who have visited the United 
States territory during their term of office. One line in the All in the 
Family theme song—an ironic exercise in pre–New Deal nostalgia—says "Mister, 
we could use a man like Herbert Hoover again". The Belgian city of Leuven 
named a square in the city center after Hoover, honoring him for his work 
as chairman of the "Commission for Relief in Belgium" during World War 
I. The square is near the Central Library of the Catholic University of 
Leuven, where a bust of the president can be seen. The Polish capital of 
Warsaw also has a square named after Hoover alongside the Royal Route leading 
to the Old Town.[163] George Burroughs Torrey painted a portrait of him. 
The historic townsite of Gwalia, Western Australia contains the Sons of 
Gwalia Museum and the Hoover House Bed and Breakfast, the renovated and 
restored Mining Engineers residence that was the original residence of 
Herbert Hoover and where he stayed in subsequent visits to the mine during 
