"Here Comes the King" is a well-known advertising jingle written for Budweiser, 
whose slogan is "The King of Beers." Budweiser is the flagship brand of 
the Anheuser-Busch brewery. Copyrighted in 1971, the music and lyrics are 
by Steve Karmen,[1] who also wrote six other jingles for Anheuser-Busch. 
The song is often heard as the theme for the brand's winter-themed TV commercials 
featuring the Budweiser Clydesdale horses pulling the Budweiser beer wagon. 
Another Budweiser jingle, "When You Say Budweiser, You've Said It All," 
also with music and lyrics by Steve Karmen, was published a year earlier 
in 1970,[2] and part of its lyric inspired "Here Comes the King." The underlying 
instrumental is imitative of a stereotypical German band. Its style resembles 
the famous Coca-Cola jingle "I'd Like to Teach the World to Sing" in that 
it begins with a lone voice, joined by another singer, and eventually a 
choral group (Both songs can be heard on the CD, Tee Vee Toons: The Commercials). 
Many of the lines are punctuated at the end by a double drumbeat. The award-winning 
anthem was a hit from the moment it first aired. Sonny & Cher recorded 
a song titled, "When You Say Love", written by two country songwriters 
using the tune of this jingle, and in 1972, it reached number 32 on the 
Billboard Hot 100 chart and number 2 on the Easy Listening chart.[3] (Karmen 
successfully sued the songwriters for copyright infringement.[4]) In 1976 
and 1977, the Budweiser company was sponsoring Lou Rawls's live shows, 
and Rawls could be heard at the time singing on television commercials 
for the company.[5] A Budweiser commercial featuring the jingle appears 
in the 1977 film, Close Encounters of the Third Kind on Roy Neary's (Richard 
Dreyfuss) TV, as he models Devil's Tower in his living room. "Here Comes 
the King" can be heard at the end of the seventh inning during all St. 
Louis Cardinals home games and at different times during the game (mainly 
when the team is in a rally). During the period when Anheuser-Busch owned 
the Cardinals, it was played instead of "Take Me Out to the Ball Game" 
during the seventh-inning stretch. It is also played at St. Louis Blues 
home games. Saint Louis University also takes to playing the song during 
half-time of home basketball games. The SLU pep-band plays the song while 
the student section sings the lyrics. The tuba section of the Florida State 
University Marching Chiefs, The Royal Flush, plays "Here Comes the King" 
while entering any time that they perform as a section. Georgia Tech bands 
play "When You Say Bud" regularly at GT sporting and alumni events. The 
band first played the song in 1970 as a tribute to then-head coach Bud 
Carson, and the tradition has remained strong. "Bud" is played between 
the 3rd and 4th quarters at football games, during the second half of Tech 
basketball games, as well as during volleyball matches, and as part of 
the 7th inning stretch in baseball games. The University of Wisconsin–Madison's 
band also plays the song at sporting events, changing the last line to 
"When you say WIS-CON-SIN, you've said it all!" The song has been known 
to sway the upper deck of Camp Randall Stadium because fans dance the polka 
when the song is played.[6] Also, the Keith Stein Blue Thunder Marching 
Band of Boise State University plays the song at various events, usually 
following the school's fight song. Keith Stein, the owner of the Anheuser-Busch 
wholesaler in Boise, is a prominent supporter of Boise State University, 
and the band hall bears his name. The Arizona State University Sun Devil 
Marching Band once played this song when they received sponsorship from 
the local Anheuser-Busch distributor. Since then, the campus and stadium 
have "gone dry," or stopped serving alcoholic beverages, and the song has 
fallen out of favor. The alumni band still plays the song in recognition 
