See text Hickory (from Powhatan) is a type of tree, comprising the genus 
Carya (Ancient Greek: κάρυον "nut"). The genus includes 17–19 species of 
deciduous trees with pinnately compound leaves and large nuts. Five or 
six species are native to China, Indochina, and India (State of Assam), 
as many as 12 are native to the United States, four are found in Mexico, 
and two to four are from Canada. Hickory flowers are small, yellow-green 
catkins produced in spring. They are wind-pollinated and self-incompatible. 
The fruit is a globose or oval nut, 2–5 cm (0.79–1.97 in) long and 1.5–3 cm 
(0.59–1.18 in) diameter, enclosed in a four-valved husk, which splits open 
at maturity. The nut shell is thick and bony in most species, and thin 
in a few, notably C. illinoinensis; it is divided into two halves, which 
split apart when the seed germinates. Beaked hickory (Annamocarya sinensis) 
is a species formerly classified as Carya sinensis, but now adjudged in 
the monotypic genus Annamocarya. In the APG system, genus Carya (and the 
whole Juglandaceae family) has been recently moved to the Fagales order. 
Hickory is used as a food plant by the larvae of some Lepidoptera species. 
These include: The hickory leaf stem gall phylloxera (Phylloxera caryaecaulis) 
also uses the hickory tree as a food source. Phylloxeridae are related 
to aphids and have a similarly complex life cycle. Eggs hatch in early 
spring and the galls quickly form around the developing insects. Phylloxera 
galls may damage weakened or stressed hickories, but are generally harmless. 
Deformed leaves and twigs can rain down from the tree in the spring as 
squirrels break off infected tissue and eat the galls, possibly for the 
protein content or because the galls are fleshy and tasty to the squirrels. 
The pecan gall curculio (Conotrachelus elegans) is a true weevil species 
also found feeding on galls of the hickory leaf stem gall phylloxera. The 
banded hickory borer (Knulliana cincta) is also found on hickories. Some 
fruits are borderline and difficult to categorize. Hickory nuts (Carya) 
and walnuts (Juglans) in the Juglandaceae family grow within an outer husk; 
these fruits are sometimes considered to be drupes or drupaceous nuts, 
rather than true botanical nuts. "Tryma" is a specialized term for such 
nut-like drupes.[4][5] Hickory wood is very hard, stiff, dense and shock 
resistant. There are woods that are stronger than hickory and woods that 
are harder, but the combination of strength, toughness, hardness and stiffness 
found in hickory wood is not found in any other commercial wood.[6] It 
is used for tool handles, bows, wheel spokes, carts, drumsticks, lacrosse 
stick handles, golf club shafts (sometimes still called hickory stick, 
even though made of steel or graphite), the bottom of skis, walking sticks 
and for punitive use as a switch (like hazel), and especially as a cane-like 
hickory stick in schools and use by parents. Paddles are often made from 
hickory. This property of hickory wood has left a trace in some Native 
American languages: in Ojibwe, hickory is called "mitigwaabaak", a compound 
of mitigwaab "bow" and the final -aakw "hardwood tree" [7] Baseball bats 
were formerly made of hickory, but are now more commonly made of ash. Hickory 
is replacing ash as the wood of choice for Scottish shinty sticks (also 
known as camans). Hickory was extensively used for the construction of 
early aircraft. Hickory is also highly prized for wood-burning stoves and 
chimineas,[8] because of its high energy content. Hickory wood is also 
a preferred type for smoking cured meats. In the Southern United States, 
hickory is popular for cooking barbecue, as hickory grows abundantly in 
the region, and adds flavor to the meat. Hickory is sometimes used for 
wood flooring due to its durability in resisting wear and character. Hickory 
wood is not noted for rot resistance. A bark extract from shagbark hickory 
is also used in an edible syrup similar to maple syrup, with a slightly 
bitter, smoky taste. The nuts of some species are palatable, while others 
are bitter and only suitable for animal feed. Shagbark and shellbark hickory, 
along with pecan, are regarded by some as the finest nut trees. When cultivated 
for their nuts, clonal (grafted) trees of the same cultivar cannot pollinate 
each other because of their self-incompatibility. Two or more cultivars 
must be planted together for successful pollination. Seedlings (grown from 
