A hidden ball trick is a play in which a player deceives the opposing team 
about the location of the ball. In the game of baseball, the defense deceives 
the runner about the location of the ball, in an effort to tag out the 
runner. In the game of American football, the offense deceives the defense 
about the location of the ball, in attempt to get the defense running the 
wrong way, such as in a fumblerooski. A fielder may employ the hidden ball 
trick when a runner is on base. Variations of the play exist: they all 
involve a fielder holding the ball without the runner's knowledge, waiting 
for the runner to lead off of his base, and then tagging the runner. In 
high school and collegiate baseball, the pitcher must be completely off 
of and away from the pitching rubber.[1] It is also a balk (NFHS R6-S2-A5) 
if a runner or runners are on base and the pitcher, while he is not touching 
the pitcher's plate, makes any movement naturally associated with his pitch, 
or he places his feet on or astride the pitcher's plate, or positions himself 
within approximately five feet of the pitcher's plate without having the 
ball. In professional baseball, under Rule 8.05(i), a balk occurs if the 
pitcher is standing on or astride of the pitching rubber without the ball. 
As play after a foul ball, hit batsman, or time out, must not resume until 
the pitcher is on the pitcher's mound, the infielder cannot use these times 
to obtain the ball. For the trick to work, the fielder (generally an infielder) 
must get the ball while the ball is in play, and a runner must not realize 
that the fielder has the ball. Variations of the play have involved miming 
a throw to the pitcher once the infielder has the ball, then standing at 
his position waiting for the runner to stray.[2] Variations have involved 
hiding the ball, either in the glove or elsewhere.[2] At least one player 
achieved success with the tactic by neither hiding the ball nor waiting: 
one variation involves, after receiving a throw to his base, miming a throw 
then re-tagging a runner very quickly, to catch a baserunner who merely 
takes his hand or foot off the base after a slide.[3] While variations 
exist, use of the play in major league baseball is somewhat rare. Some 
say that the hidden-ball trick has been pulled fewer than 300 times in 
over 100 years of major league baseball.[2] A first baseman may attempt 
the play after a pitcher, in an attempt to pick off a runner, throws to 
first. The first baseman then fakes the throw back to the pitcher while 
keeping the ball in his glove, and if and when the runner leaves the base, 
tags the runner.[2] Dave Bergman is a former first baseman who pulled this 
off on multiple occasions.[2] A second baseman could attempt a similar 
play after a successful steal of second base, having received a throw from 
the catcher. Former second baseman Marty Barrett also successfully performed 
the trick more than once.[2] After a runner reached second base on a ball 
hit to the outfield, and after receiving the throw in from the outfield, 
he faked a throw to the pitcher while retaining the ball.[2] To aid the 
deception, Barrett took the throw with his back to the runner, then placed 
the ball between the back of his glove and one of his fingers: this way, 
he exposed his glove to the runner without the ball in the pocket, suggesting 
that he did not have the ball.[2] Other players have hidden the ball in 
their armpit.[2] Former third baseman Matt Williams used a different technique. 
On more than one occasion, he asked the runner to step off the base so 
that Williams could sweep the dirt off it, then tagged out the runner when 
the runner complied.[4] This worked twice.[5] Former third baseman Mike 
Lowell also made the trick work twice, each time after a throw in from 
the outfield. The key to Lowell's success was acting, placement, and waiting: 
acting as if nothing was on, standing away from the bag but not too far 
from it, and waiting, at least 10 seconds, until the runner on third took 
a few steps.[2] On June 8, 2007, shortstop Julio Lugo of the Boston Red 
Sox caught Alberto Callaspo of the Arizona Diamondbacks. However, third 
baseman Lowell, Lugo's teammate, claimed it was not a true hidden ball 
trick since the pitcher did most of the work "selling" the trick.[6] Before 
Lugo caught Callaspo, Lowell laid claim to the last successful hidden ball 
trick and held that position for eight years to the day. Lowell's occurred 
on August 10, 2005, when he, then with the Florida Marlins, caught the 
Arizona Diamondbacks Luis Terrero, with reliever Todd Jones on the mound. 
Lowell also caught Brian Schneider of the Montreal Expos in 2004. Third 
baseman Bill Coughlin was reputed to have been the master of the hidden 
ball trick. Although not verified, Coughlin reportedly pulled it off seven 
times.[7][8] He first succeeded on May 12, 1905 against Hobe Ferris of 
the Boston Red Sox.[9] He did it again on September 3, 1906, catching George 
Stone in the first inning. In Game 2 of the 1907 World Series, Coughlin 
caught Jimmy Slagle with a hidden ball trick, the only one in World Series 
history until Dick Groat of the St. Louis Cardinals pulled the hidden ball 
trick on Mickey Mantle of the New York Yankees in the 1964 World Series. 
The play went from Germany Schaefer to Coughlin.[10] Willie Kamm was considered 
another master of the trick.[11] On April 30, 1929, in a game against the 
Cleveland Indians, Kamm was involved in a rare triple play involving a 
hidden-ball trick.[12] The Indians had baserunners on first and second 
bases when Carl Lind grounded out to the shortstop. Johnny Hodapp, who 
had been on second base, tried to score but got caught in a rundown between 
third and home. Charlie Jamieson advanced to third. Kamm retrieved the 
ball and tagged both runners, whereupon the umpire ruled Hodapp out. Kamm 
then hid the ball under his arm and waited for Jamieson to step off the 
base. When he did so, Kamm tagged him out to complete the triple play.[13] 
On July 12, 2013, San Diego Padres shortstop Everth Cabrera attempted to 
execute the hidden-ball trick on San Francisco Giants third baseman Pablo 
Sandoval after Sandoval hit a double. As pitcher Sean O'Sullivan walked 
onto the mound and Sandoval took his lead, Cabrera, while holding the ball, 
tagged Sandoval. However, Sandoval had requested and was granted time by 
second base umpire Laz Díaz immediately after his double. Because O'Sullivan 
never assumed his position on the pitcher's plate with the baseball, the 
umpires appropriately never called "Play" and Cabrera's tag of Sandoval 
was therefore not legal. The Umpire Ejection Fantasy League explains this 
is why a hidden-ball trick may never be executed after a base hit, mound 
visit or other event in which "time" is called: in order to put the ball 
back into play, the pitcher must engage the rubber and if the pitcher engages 
the rubber without the ball, it is a balk pursuant to Rule 8.05(i).[1] 
On August 10, 2013, in a Tampa Bay loss to L.A., 5–0, Evan Longoria, Tampa 
Bay Rays's third baseman pulled the trick in the fourth inning on Juan 
Uribe. With the bases loaded and no outs, A.J. Ellis flied out to center 
field, with Andre Ethier tagging to score, Uribe tagging to third and Skip 
Schumaker tagging to second. Tampa first baseman (and former Dodger) James 
Loney cut off center fielder Wil Myers' throw at the mound, flipped to 
shortstop Yunel Escobar, who flipped to third baseman Longoria standing 
several feet behind third base, out of Uribe's line of sight. Longoria 
just stood behind the bag looking bored and kicking the dirt for several 
seconds before he got his chance. "I was watching it, and I didn't know 
what to do to stop it", said pitcher Zack Greinke, who was on deck. "I 
didn't want to yell at Uribe, because I might get him off [the bag]. I 
didn't know what to do. He just lifted his foot for a tenth of a second 
and Longoria was ready for it. As Uribe shifted his weight and took his 
foot off the third-base bag, Longoria snuck from behind and slapped Uribe's 
thigh with a tag. Longoria looked over his shoulder at umpire Angel Hernández, 
who called Uribe out for an 8-3-6-5 double play. In an after-the-game hint 
from his teammates, Uribe was presented with a baseball shoe taped to a 
base.[14] On September 19, 2013, Colorado Rockies first baseman Todd Helton 
caught Matt Carpenter of the St. Louis Cardinals for the final out of the 
first inning in a day game at Coors Field. Helton, who days earlier had 
announced his retirement after 17 seasons with the Rockies,[15] tagged 
Carpenter after faking a throw back to pitcher Roy Oswalt following a pickoff 
attempt. Carpenter was dusting his hands after a head-first slide when 
he stepped off the back side of first base towards 1B umpire Bill Miller. 
Cardinals first base coach Chris Maloney was unable to help Carpenter before 
Helton got him with a poking tag. "I've been wanting to do that for 17 
seasons. Now I can cross that off my bucket list", said the 40-year-old 
Helton,[16] who at the time was the oldest active professional athlete 
in Denver.[17] The Rockies went on to win 7-6 in a 15 inning game that 
was the second-longest in Coors Field history.[18] On November 9, 1895 
John Heisman executed a hidden ball trick utilizing quarterback Reynolds 
Tichenor to get Auburn's only touchdown in a 6 to 9 loss to Vanderbilt. 
During the play the ball was snapped to a half-back who was able to slip 
it under the back of the quarterback's jersey and who in turn was able 
to trot in for the touchdown. This was also the first game in the south 
decided by a field goal.[19] Heisman later used the trick against Pop Warner's 
Georgia team. Warner picked up the trick and later used it at Cornell against 
Penn State in 1897.[20] He then used it in 1903 at Carlisle against Harvard 
