The High School for Math, Science and Engineering at City College (often 
abbreviated to High School for Math, Science and Engineering, HSMSE, or 
HSMSE @ CCNY) is one of the nine specialized high schools in New York City, 
United States. It is located within the campus of the City College of New 
York (CCNY). Created in 2002 along with Queens High School for the Sciences 
at York College, and High School of American Studies at Lehman College, 
HSMSE was founded with an emphasis on engineering and design, and was envisioned 
as a small school with approximately four hundred students. The relatively 
small population of the school allows students and teachers to have a stronger 
relationship. Being a specialized high school not only draws students in, 
but also allows for a diverse student body.[1] HSMSE is a selective, public, 
college prep high school, and is one of nine specialized high schools in 
New York City. The school's mission is "to challenge talented students 
to expand their intellect by developing the habits of inquiry, written 
and verbal expression, and critical thinking." Instructionally supported 
by the City College of New York, the school mainly focuses on an intensive 
STEM curriculum, while also emphasizing civic responsibility and the value 
of knowledge. Located on the campus of City College, which stretches from 
West 133rd Street to West 141st Street along Convent Avenue, HSMSE is small, 
with a total of approximately 425 students in ninth to twelfth grade. The 
principal since October 2012 has been Crystal Bonds. HSMSE was ranked the 
city's fourth best public high school in The New York Post's annual school 
ranking.[2] In 2013, HSMSE was ranked among one of the nation's top high 
schools by the U.S. News & World Report.[3] Admission is via the Specialized 
High Schools Admissions Test. HSMSE participates in the FIRST Robotics 
competition (FTC) and the annual NCSSSMST conference. In May 2013, HSMSE 
was ranked #1 in the country by Working in Support of Education (w!se) 
for personal finance education.[4] The school is located on four floors 
of Baskerville Hall on the CCNY campus. Students eat lunch in the CCNY 
cafeteria and utilize the college library and gymnasium. Classrooms and 
labs on the first and second floors of Baskerville were completely renovated 
in 2010 and Smart Boards and computers are available in most classrooms. 
The school has an extended day schedule and 85 minute periods with classes 
on alternating days, enabling a greater degree of focus and depth than 
the usual high school schedule. Class sizes are small, with an average 
of approximately 24 students per class.[5] In addition to a rigorous core 
subject program emphasizing math, science and the humanities, all students 
are required to take a minimum of three engineering core courses through 
11th grade sponsored by Project Lead the Way. After 10th grade most students 
take a concentration of engineering or mathematics courses while a smaller 
group participates in a biomedical research program at Mt. Sinai Hospital. 
HSMSE has a diverse student body: “with an index of 74 (130 Asians, 75 
blacks, 99 Hispanics and 101 whites).[6] HSMSE is a school where students 
of all ethnic and economic backgrounds mingle comfortably. The faculty 
is notably dedicated, many devoting personal time to mentor students, to 
coach teams and to support extracurricular activities. Support mechanisms 
are in place for students who struggle, through informal peer tutoring 
as well as through daily tutoring sessions offered by every teacher. Virtually 
all of HSMSE’s diverse, high-achieving students go on to college,[7] many 
of them to highly competitive colleges. Most courses are taught at the 
advanced and college level and, by graduation, all students will have completed 
a significant number of college level courses with credit granted by CCNY 
as well as Advanced Placement courses. All students in the graduating classes 
beginning in 2013 will complete at least two Advanced Placement courses, 
as HSMSE teaches AP English Literature as the standard 11th grade English 
course and AP World History as the 9th and 10th grade social studies course. 
The school also offers AP Statistics, AP Calculus AB, AP Calculus BC, AP 
Computer Science AB, AP Chemistry, AP Environmental Science, and AP German. 
Students may take advantage of additional undergraduate courses offered 
through the CUNY College Now program. German is the core language taught 
at HSMSE which has one of the largest high school German programs in the 
United States. The school also offers Spanish at the advanced level for 
students who pass an entrance exam and then begin at the second-year level, 
but the majority of students take German for a minimum of three years. 
HSMSE’s founders believed that German is the language of engineering. As 
a result, about 75% of HSMSE students study German, which is offered through 
the Advanced Placement level, and many of them continue to study German 
in college. The school employs two full-time German teachers and is one 
of nine US partner schools of the PASCH program of the Goethe Institut 
through its "Schools: Partners for the Future" program. Every summer HSMSE 
sends a number of students on funded study trips to Germany with the Goethe 
Institut and the American Association of Teachers of German. Students at 
HSMSE have one elective period each day. All 9th graders take a Study Skills 
and Research course (referred to as "Freshman Academy") as their elective. 
The diverse electives program includes such subjects as Varsity & JV Math 
Team, Astronomy, Science Research, Sustainable Civilizations, Microsoft 
Office User Specialist (MOUS), Nanotechnology, Sports Journalism, Classical 
Guitar, Gastronomy, Poetry, Creative Writing, Band, and Art History. Students 
participate in extracurricular activities such as Dance Team, Cheerleading, 
Eat NYC, Spades Club, Model UN, Euro Challenge, Fed Challenge, Key Club, 
MSA(Muslim Student Association), Junior States of America, Dr. Dragon school 
magazine, Harlem Is,The National Society of Black Engineers, Robotics, 
Photography Club, Gay-Straight Alliance, Ping Pong Club and Film. Students 
regularly compete in the AMC, AIME and NYC Math Competitions and submit 
research to the New York City Science and Engineering Fair and national 
scientific research competitions. PSAL sports teams include boys' basketball, 
soccer, baseball and volleyball, girls' basketball, softball and soccer, 
and coed cross-country. Student events occur throughout the year, such 
as Club Fair, Student Leadership Conference, Talent Show, Spring Fair and 
Multicultural Night. There is also a Student Government with two representatives 
from each grade, along with a Secretary and Treasurer. In 2016, Guyanese 
immigrant and senior Kelly Hyles was accepted into 21 colleges, including 
all eight ivy league schools, plus MIT and NYU. She decided to attend Harvard 
college. She participated in the Mount Sinai biomedical research program, 
founded the school's Black Student Union, and was valedictorian of the 
