Highland Park is a park located on the Brooklyn-Queens border. The Brooklyn 
neighborhood to its south is commonly regarded as Cypress Hills part of 
the East New York neighborhood. Highland Park was created on the land immediately 
surrounding Ridgewood Reservoir that was purchased by the City of Brooklyn 
in 1891 under the jurisdiction of the Highland Park Society. Initially 
known as Ridgewood Park, between 1901 and 1905 the Brooklyn Department 
of Parks began improving the area with several structures, a rustic bridge, 
roads, footpaths, a flower garden and a new lake and fountain. In 1905, 
the City expanded the park by purchasing the Schenck estate just to the 
south of the Reservoir. The final expansion occurred in 1906 with purchase 
of a third parcel to the west from the Department of Water.[1] The park 
from its earliest days has been a recreational haven for residents of both 
Brooklyn and Queens. The park ultimately included football fields, baseball 
fields, tennis courts and (in the winter) a frozen pond for skating. An 
aquatic garden was added in 1907 and a children's farm garden in 1915. 
The park is home to The Dawn of Glory World War I monument by sculptor 
Pietro Montana (dedicated 1925). In 1991 the western section of the park 
was renamed the Vito P. Battista Playground in memory of Vito Piranesi 
Battista, a local educator and member of the New York State Assembly. Ridgewood 
Reservoir was made obsolete by expansion of the city's Catskill and Delaware 
water systems although it remained in service until 1959. The third basin 
was used as a backup reservoir with water from the Catskill system until 
it was finally decommissioned and drained in 1989. The fenced-in basins 
returned to a natural state, becoming home to a birch forest and grassy 
marsh and hosting a wide variety of flora and fauna. In 2004, the reservoir 
was turned over to the Department of Parks and Recreation for integration 
into Highland Park.[2] In October 2007, the Parks Commissioner Adrian Benepe 
quietly unveiled a contract to breach one of the reservoir basins and clear 
20 acres (81,000 m2) for ball fields.[3] However, on June 26, 2008, New 
York City Comptroller William C. Thompson, Jr. rejected that contract for 
the new development, citing concerns about the environmental impact, increased 
truck traffic, and the vendor selection process.[4] Finally, in October 
2013 the city announced the completion of a substantial renovation project 
that added handicapped-accessible and bicycle-friendly pathways (including 
one around the reservoir) to the park, as well as new fencing, pathways, 
lighting, and plantings. However the reservoir itself remains fenced off 
as a wildlife area, and no new ball fields were constructed. The $6.92 
million cost was far less than the $50 million that was forecast for the 
