Hilda Chester (September 1, 1897 – December 1, 1978), also known as Howlin' 
Hilda, was a Brooklyn Dodgers fan, and arguably the most famous fan in 
baseball history.[1][2] Chester began her long allegiance to the Dodgers 
as a teenager, when she stood outside the offices of the Brooklyn Chronicle 
every day to hear the scores of the Dodgers' games as soon as possible. 
After a while, she was able to get passes to games from sportswriters. 
At some time, she was hired as a peanut sacker by the Harry M. Stevens 
corporation, which ran the concession stands at Ebbets Field and most other 
Major League Baseball stadiums, breaking down 50 pound sacks of peanuts 
into retail bags for sale. After she was done with her work, she was able 
to watch the games. She also worked for the Stevens' concession at Aqueduct 
Racetrack. Eventually, she "graduated" to selling hot dogs. By the 1930s, 
she was attending Dodgers' games frequently, and in 1938, after Larry MacPhail, 
the Dodgers' executive vice president, instituted Ladies' Day at Ebbets 
Field with a ten-cent admission price, she became a regular.[1][3] Because 
of her extremely loud voice, thick Brooklynese accent, and allegiance to 
the Dodgers, Chester was well-known in Ebbets Field and beyond, throughout 
Brooklyn. But she became famous after her first heart attack. Instructed 
by her doctor not to yell anymore, she returned to Ebbets Field with a 
frying pan and iron ladle, and made so much noise that everybody quickly 
knew who she was. The Dodgers' players soon replaced her noisemaking implements 
with a brass cowbell as a gift. She also received grandstand passes from 
the team, but preferred to sit in the bleachers. In 1941, she had a second 
heart attack, and by then was important enough to be visited in Jewish 
Hospital of Brooklyn by Dodgers' manager Leo Durocher and several players.[4] 
On one occasion, Chester influenced the events of a game, and almost its 
outcome. With Dodgers' pitcher Whitlow Wyatt holding a big lead, Chester 
dropped a folded note onto the outfield grass and yelled to Pete Reiser, 
"Give that to Leo!" Reiser picked up the paper, and at the end of the inning, 
ran in from the outfield, exchanging brief greetings with general manager 
Larry MacPhail, who was sitting next to the dugout. Reiser then gave the 
note to Durocher. It said that Wyatt was getting tired, and that Hugh Casey 
should start to warm up in the bullpen. When Wyatt gave up a hit in the 
next half-inning, Durocher promptly replaced him with Casey, who was then 
hit very hard. The Dodgers held on to win, but in the clubhouse afterward, 
Durocher was livid, yelling at Reiser, "Don't you ever give me another 
note from MacPhail as long as long as you play for me!" Reiser answered 
that the note wasn't from MacPhail, it was from Hilda. It was one of the 
few times Durocher was at a loss for words.[1][5] Chester also occasionally 
accompanied the Dodgers on short road trips. In Philadelphia, one of her 
counterparts for the Phillies started to yell at and berate Dixie Walker, 
calling him a has-been. "You're all through!" yelled the Phillies' fan. 
Chester quieted him with one comment. "Oh, yeah?" she yelled back. "Look 
where he is, and look where you are!"[1][5] In 1943, Chester was given 
a silver bracelet from by the Dodgers, with her first name on the band, 
and a small dangling silver baseball.[6] In 1946, Chester was called as 
a defense witness for Durocher, who was on trial for assault. The previous 
year, a fan named John Christian had been heckling the Dodgers' players 
from the Ebbets Field grandstand many times over several weeks. On June 
9, 1945, Durocher had enlisted Joseph Moore, a special policeman at the 
game, to get Christian from his seat, and the three met under the stands. 
Christian wound up with a broken jaw, and Durocher was accused of using 
brass knuckles to beat him up. Chester testified that Durocher had come 
to her aid and was defending her honor because Christian had been calling 
her names, including "cocksucker," and "usin' langwidge that shocked the 
ladies." After two days of testimony from several witnesses, including 
Durocher, who testified in his own defense, the jury deliberated 38 minutes 
and both Durocher and Moore were acquitted on April 25, 1946.[7][8][9][10] 
Of all the Dodgers' players and managers, Chester was partial to Durocher 
because he had led the visit to the hospital when she had her heart attack 
in 1941. Durocher also sent her cards annually at Christmas time for many 
years. Chester also occasionally went to Yankee Stadium and the Polo Grounds, 
and to Madison Square Garden to see the New York Rangers, and although 
her initial allegiance was with the Dodgers, she became ambivalent between 
the Dodgers and the New York Giants after Durocher became the Giants' manager.[3][9] 
Chester appeared on the episode of This is Your Life which celebrated the 
life of umpire Beans Reardon, in the Ebbets Field scene of the comedy Whistling 
in Brooklyn, and in Brooklyn, I Love You (1946), a Paramount Pictures short 
highlighting the Dodgers' 1946 season.[3][9] The Dodgers named their all-time 
team in between games of their Old-Timers' Day double-header in 1955. On 
the occasion, they asked other significant contributors to the team who 
were in the stands to take bows, including Billy Herman, former star second 
baseman, Whit Wyatt, former star pitcher, Leon Cadore, who pitched an entire 
26 inning game in 1920, Otto Miller, who was on the Dodgers' first two 
pennant-winning teams of the modern era, Arthur Dede, Gus Getz, Jack Doscher, 
three of the oldest living Dodgers, and Hilda Chester as the Dodgers' all-time 
fan.[11] Several weeks later, she was profiled in a newspaper article in 
The New York Times.[3] After the Dodgers moved to Los Angeles following 
the 1957 season, Chester said she "wouldn't be caught dead" going to see 
them in Philadelphia, their closest visit to Brooklyn.[12] When the Dodgers 
moved to Los Angeles, Chester lost her team, her outlet to fandom, and 
her fame, although she continued to be a semi-celebrity for several more 
years. Upon the razing of Ebbets Field in 1960, she and five members of 
the Dodger Sym-Phony band appeared on Be Our Guest, a short-lived television 
program on CBS. (Other guests on that episode were former Dodgers Ralph 
Branca and Carl Erskine, and former Phil Silvers Show regulars Maurice 
Gosfield and Harvey Lembeck.[13] She was also honored as "America's No. 
1 baseball fan" during ceremonies at the opening of the National Baseball 
Congress tournament in Wichita, Kansas in 1961.[9][14] However, over time, 
she slowly faded from the news, although she maintained some of her old 
ties to the Dodgers. In 1969, Dixie Walker noted that he hadn't been back 
to Brooklyn "for years" although he added, "but last September I got a 
birthday card from Hilda Chester. She never misses a one."[9][15] Chester 
died on December 1, 1978. By then, she apparently was no longer in touch 
with or had no immediate family, and was indigent. She was buried by the 
Hebrew Free Burial Association in their Mount Richmond Cemetery on Staten 
Island. Unlike many of her antics, her death was not reported in any news 
media.[9] Three years after her death, Chester's character had a minor 
role in The First, the Broadway musical about Jackie Robinson that was 
adapted from a book by Joel Siegel, with music by Bob Brush and lyrics 
by Martin Charnin.[16] More than 30 years later, she was the subject of 
a one-person biographical musical, Howling Hilda.[17] She is also remembered 
by the annual Hilda Award given by the Baseball Reliquary, and with a nearly 
life-size fabric-machê statue at the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 
