The Hilldale Athletic Club (informally known as Darby Daisies) were an 
African American professional baseball team based in Darby, Pennsylvania, 
west of Philadelphia. Established as a boys team in 1910, the Hilldales 
were developed by their early manager, then owner Ed Bolden to be one of 
the powerhouse Negro league baseball teams. They won the first three Eastern 
Colored League pennants beginning in 1923 and in 1925 won the second Colored 
World Series. Hall of Fame player Judy Johnson was a Hilldale regular for 
most its professional era with twelve seasons in fifteen years 1918–1932. 
Pitcher Phil Cockrell played for Hilldale throughout those years. Oscar 
Charleston, Biz Mackey, Louis Santop, Chaney White, and Jesse "Nip" Winters 
were also important Hilldale players in the 1920s. Ed Bolden founded the 
team in 1910 as an amateur athletic club for local young men. Devere Thompson 
was the first manager but Bolden took over as manager himself before the 
end of the first season.[1] The club incorporated November 1916, as Hilldale 
Baseball and Exhibition Company, and began to hire some established players.[2] 
Spot Poles and Bill Pettus led the 1917 team to a 23-15-1 record.[3] Hilldale 
and the Atlantic City Bacharach Giants played as eastern "Associates" of 
the western Negro National League in 1920 and 1921. In the latter season 
they held a four game series in September with the winner to face the NNL 
champion Chicago American Giants. After both teams won two games, the American 
Giants traveled east to play one series each. Chicago defeated the Bacharach 
Giants 2-1-1 but Hilldale beat Chicago 3-2-1.[4] Hilldale was a charter 
member of the Eastern Colored League in 1923 and won the first-place pennants 
in 1923, 1924, and 1925. They lost the inaugural, 1924 Colored World Series 
to the Kansas City Monarchs five games to four (with one tie). Next season 
they won a rematch with the Monarchs five games to one. The 1925 club featured 
star catcher and cleanup hitter Biz Mackey, third baseman Judy Johnson, 
and outfielder Clint Thomas. Player-manager Frank Warfield's pitching staff 
was led by left-handed ace Nip Winters and spitballer Phil Cockrell. Hilldale 
dropped to third in 1926 and fifth in 1927.[1] Frustrated by the league's 
lack of organization, Bolden withdrew his club from the ECL prior to the 
1928 season. When the American Negro League was organized in 1929, Hilldale 
joined, but the league lasted only one season. Bolden was subsequently 
forced out of club management, and Hilldale corporation member Lloyd Thompson 
assumed control of the club in 1930. He had been the a 14-year-old infielder 
on the original boys team twenty years earlier, when his older brother 
had been the manager.[5] After a single season, the team was purchased 
by John Drew, who ran the club until its final collapse in 1932.[6] During 
the Great Depression, Black urban unemployment hit as high as 50%. This 
negatively impacted attendance in the Negro leagues in the 1930s. Drew 
disbanded the ballclub in July 1932 after the combined attendance of two 
subsequent Saturday afternoon games at Hilldale Park totaled 295.[6] The 
Negro National League was formed in 1920. An official League business-card 
from that year lists the club as one of two "Associated Members" and identifies 
the club as "Hilldale, Darby, Pa." Unlike other teams listed with both 
location and team-name, no nickname is identified with Hilldale.[7] (Hilldale 
was the club name, Darby the locale.) While various nicknames were informally 
applied to the club including "Darby Daisies" and "Clan Darbie", the team 
was most commonly known simply as Hilldale or the Hilldales. Hilldale did 
not have an official team logo as professional and collegiate teams have 
today. It was not common practice for teams to have such standardized team 
symbols in the 1910s and 1920s. They wore red and white. Their jerseys 
in the 1920s had "Hilldale" across the front in the style shown above as 
the "team logo". The club wore a red cap with a white plain-block capital 
H as seen above.[8] The Negro Leagues Baseball Museum (NLBM) created a 
series of team logos in the 1990s for the well-known Negro league teams 
so that the NLBM could license such logos and collect royalties for their 
use on merchandise. Such revenue helps sustain the museum. Hilldale was 
one such team for which a contemporary logo was created. It is seen on 
NLBM-licensed Hilldale Giants merchandise and while it supports the educational 
efforts of the Museum, it is not a historical logo.[9] Eastern Colored 
League Pennants Colored World Series Championships No-Hitters Hall of Famers 
These Hall of Fame players were Hilldale team members during the listed 
seasons. Santop also played post-season with the team in 1917 and 1919, 
as Charleston did in 1926.[10] Historical Marker On October 14, 2006, over 
500 individuals gathered for the dedication of a Pennsylvania Historical 
marker at the site of Hilldale's ballpark at Chester and Cedar Streets 
in Yeadon. The ceremony was attended by Philadelphia Phillies hitting coach 
Milt Thompson, former Phillies player Garry Maddox, and Gene Dias, Phillies 
director of community relations,. Also attending were the four living members 
of the Negro league Philadelphia Stars, Bill Cash, Mahlon Duckett, Stanley 
Glenn, and Harold Gould, along with Ray Mackey, great grandnephew of former 
Hilldale and Stars player Biz Mackey. Area businessman John Bossong led 
the effort for the historical marker.[11] The marker is titled, "The Hilldale 
Athletic Club (The Darby Daisies)" and the text reads, This baseball team, 
whose home was here at Hilldale Park, won the Eastern Colored League championship 
three times and the 1925 Negro League World Series. Darby fielded Negro 
League teams from 1910 to 1932. Notable players included baseball hall 
of fame members Pop Lloyd, Judy Johnson, Martin Dihigo, Joe Williams, Oscar 
Charleston, Ben Taylor, Biz Mackey, and Louis Santop. Owner Ed Bolden helped 
form the Eastern Colored League.[12] Bossong originated the idea for the 
marker in the summer of 1999, after visiting the Negro Leagues Baseball 
Museum in Kansas City, Missouri.[13] Centenary The year 2010 marked the 
centenary of the club's founding. Bossong worked with the Darby Historical 
Commission to construct a Walk of Fame alongside the site of the Historical 
Marker. The celebration was organized by the Hilldale 100 committee. The 
Walk of Fame honors former-Hilldale owners Bolden and Drew, as well as 
team batboy and contemporary area-resident Ed Bacon.[14] Hilldale Kitchen 
Hilldale Kitchen is a themed restaurant based on the Giants created by 
community developers and Darby Mayor Helen Thomas. The restaurant's walls 
are filled with images and celebrations of the Giants. The Hilldale Kitchen 
opened on March 6, 2011.[15] The African American Museum in Philadelphia 
maintains the "William Cash/Lloyd Thompson Collection" of Philadelphia 
