Hilltop Park was the nickname of a baseball park that stood in the Washington 
Heights neighborhood of New York City. It was the home of the New York 
Yankees Major League Baseball club from 1903 to 1912, when they were known 
as the "Highlanders". It was also the temporary home of the New York Giants 
during a two-month period in 1911 while the Polo Grounds was being rebuilt 
after a fire. The ballpark's formal name (as painted on its exterior walls) 
was American League Park. Because the park was located on top of a ridge 
of Manhattan Island, it came to be known as Hilltop Park, and its team 
was most often called the New York Highlanders (as well as the Americans 
and the Yankees). This "Highland" connection contrasted with their intra-city 
rivals, the Giants, whose Polo Grounds was just a few blocks away, in the 
bottomland under Coogan's Bluff. Hilltop Park sat on the block bounded 
by Broadway, 165th Street, Fort Washington Avenue, and 168th Street. The 
structure consisted of a covered grandstand stretching from first base 
to third base and uncovered bleacher sections down the right and left field 
lines. The bleachers were covered in 1911, and additional bleachers were 
built in 1912 in center field. Originally built in just six weeks, the 
park sat 16,000, with standing room for an additional 10,000 or so. The 
field was initially huge by modern standards — 365 ft (111 m) to left field, 
542 ft (165 m) to center field and 400 ft (120 m) to right field. An inner 
fence was soon constructed to create more realistic action.[2] Both the 
park and the nickname "Highlanders" were abandoned when the American Leaguers 
left, at the beginning of the 1913 season, to rent the Polo Grounds from 
the Giants. The Polo Grounds had a far larger seating capacity, and by 
that time was made of concrete due to the 1911 fire. Hilltop Park was demolished 
in 1914. American League baseball came to New York City in 1903 when gambler 
Frank J. Farrell and former New York City Police Chief William S. Devery, 
bought the Baltimore Orioles franchise for $18,000. They established the 
team at Hilltop Park, a hastily constructed wooden park seating about 16,000 
fans, on the west side of Broadway between 165th and 168th streets. Opening 
Day came on April 30, 1903, when the New York Highlanders played the Washington 
Senators.[3] The ballpark site was quite large for its time (9.6 acres 
or nearly double the size of many ballpark sites of that era), and the 
south portion of the land plot was used for the parking of first carriages 
and later automobiles. The shape of the land plot was a large trapezoid 
with right angles at the site's northeast and southeast corners.[4] The 
left field foul line ran mostly North to South and was parallel to Fort 
Washington Road (the western boundary of the park). The left field foul 
line would, if extended about 20 additional feet, have intersected 168th 
Street at less than 90°. The right field foul line would, if extended, 
have intersected Broadway (the eastern boundary of the park) at more than 
90°. The ballpark site was thus trapezoidal in shape and large for the 
Deadball Era. The seating capacity of 16,000 was also rather large for 
this time period. Capacity in the dead-ball Era was a flexible concept. 
In accordance with the practices of the day, overflow crowds were allowed 
to stand in the perimeter of the outfield. In addition, for "big" games, 
additional standees were allowed down the foul lines and between home plate 
and the backstop. Thus the effective overall capacity of the park was closer 
to 25,000, although even when stuffed to the gills, it fell well short 
of the normal capacity of the Polo Grounds. The original 1903 construction 
of Hilltop Park cost about $200,000, more than two-thirds of which was 
spent for rock blasting and excavations; and the groundskeeper of the Highlanders, 
Phil Schenck, laid out the playing field.[5] The ballpark consisted of 
a covered grandstand of three sections, although it was not actually roofed 
until June 1 that season. Two sections of the grandstand were parallel 
to the foul lines and the third section was a short intermediate diagonal, 
which formed the backstop. The grandstand extended a short way past both 
first and third bases, and a clubhouse was located behind the center field 
fence. Single-deck bleachers that extended down both foul lines reached 
from the grandstand almost to the fences. The third base bleachers were 
not finished until June 1903. These first and third base bleachers angled 
towards the foul lines reducing the foul area at the fences to about 15 
feet. A modest-sized scoreboard was in fair territory down the left field 
foul line. The main entrance to the park was on Broadway and a ramp led 
up to the top of the first base grandstand. Unlike many of the other contemporary 
wooden ballparks-this one never burned. Hilltop Park was not in good condition 
when it opened. There was a swamp in right field that had yet to be filled 
with rock, the outfield had no grass, the grandstand had not been completed, 
and players had to dress at their hotel rooms because the clubhouse was 
not completed. When Hilltop Park was finally completed, a single tier wooden 
covered grandstand extended from the third base dugout to homeplate, and 
around to the first base dugout. Uncovered grandstands extended to both 
foul poles. From behind homeplate, fans could see scenic views of the Hudson 
River and New Jersey Palisades. A bleacher section was placed in the center 
field corner around 1910, painted black to serve as a batter's eye screen. 
After the Polo Grounds burnt down in 1911, the Highlanders/Yankees offered 
to share their facility with the New York Giants, and the grateful National 
Leaguers took up temporary residence in Hilltop Park. After two more seasons, 
the American Leaguers moved a few blocks east and south into the rebuilt 
Polo Grounds to sub-lease from the Giants, and the nickname Highlanders 
was dropped as the team was now strictly "the Yankees". The last big league 
game played at Hilltop Park was on October 5, 1912. The park was demolished 
in 1914. Two Hall of Fame pitchers had good outings at Hilltop Park in 
1908. Detroit outfielder Ty Cobb, "The Georgia Peach", made many a mark 
on the game of baseball, some famous and some infamous. At least one of 
each happened at the Hilltop: The site where Hilltop Park once stood remained 
vacant until the land was purchased by Edward S. Harkness for the express 
purpose of building the world's first academic medical center. Columbia-Presbyterian 
Medical Center opened in 1928 and is now called NewYork-Presbyterian / 
Columbia University Irving Medical Center. On September 30, 1993 a plaque 
was placed on the hospital grounds to mark the former location of home 
plate in Hilltop Park.[6] The plaque was donated to the hospital by the 
New York Yankees to commemorate the exact location of where home plate 
rested in Hilltop Park. The plaque is bronze and is the same size and shape 
as home plate. The text on the plaque reads, "Dedicated to Columbia-Presbyterian 
Medical Center and the community of Washington Heights by the New York 
Yankees to mark the exact location of home plate in Hilltop Park, home 
of the New York Highlanders, from 1903 to 1912, later renamed the New York 
