Hillerich & Bradsby Company (H&B) is a company located in Louisville, Kentucky 
that produces the famous Louisville Slugger baseball bat. The Louisville 
Slugger Museum & Factory in downtown Louisville features a retrospective 
of the product and its use throughout baseball history. H&B also makes 
baseball gloves, golf clubs, golf gloves and other equipment (under the 
PowerBilt brand). The company announced plans on March 23, 2015 to sell 
its Louisville Slugger division to sporting goods manufacturer Wilson Sporting 
Goods.[1] J. F. Hillerich opened his woodworking shop in Louisville in 
1855. During the 1880s, Hillerich hired his seventeen-year-old son, John 
"Bud" Hillerich. Legend has it that Bud, who played baseball himself, slipped 
away from work one afternoon in 1884 to watch Louisville's major league 
team, the Louisville Eclipse. The team's star, Pete "The Gladiator" Browning, 
mired in a hitting slump, broke his bat. Bud invited Browning to his father's 
shop to hand-craft him a new bat to his own specifications. Browning accepted 
the offer, and got three hits to immediately break out of his slump with 
his new bat the first day he used it. Browning told his teammates, which 
began a surge of professional ball players to the Hillerich woodworking 
shop. J. F. Hillerich was uninterested in making bats; he saw the company 
future in stair railings, porch columns and swinging butter churns. In 
fact, for a brief time in the 1880s, he even turned away ball players. 
Bud, however, saw the potential in producing baseball bats, and the elder 
Hillerich eventually relented to his son. The bats were sold under the 
name "Falls City Slugger" until Bud Hillerich took over his father's company 
in 1894, and the name "Louisville Slugger" was registered with the U.S. 
Patent Office. In 1905, Honus Wagner signed a deal with the company, becoming 
the first baseball player to officially endorse a bat.[2] Frank Bradsby, 
a salesman, became a partner in 1916, and the company's name changed to 
Hillerich and Bradsby. By 1923, H&B was selling more bats than any other 
bat maker in the country, and legends like Ty Cobb, Babe Ruth and Lou Gehrig 
were all using them. During World War II, the company produced wooden rifle 
stocks and billy clubs for the U.S. Army.[3] In 1954, the company purchased 
Larimer and Norton, Inc., a Pennsylvania lumber company to ensure a supply 
of hardwood for their products. In 1976, the company moved across the Ohio 
River, to Jeffersonville, Indiana, to take advantage of the railroad line 
there. In the 1990s, the company returned to Louisville, Kentucky. Most 
of Hillerich and Bradsby's wood bats are made from Northern white ash grown 
in proprietary forests on the New York/ Pennsylvania border. Ash trees 
in the United States are now under attack from the emerald ash borer, an 
invasive insect species native to Asia and first detected in Michigan in 
2002. While H&B's forests are not yet infested by the beetle, the area 
being destroyed is growing and moving closer to them. The company is making 
plans to utilize other woods in the event North America's ash forests are 
totally destroyed. The P72 model bat was created in 1954 for professional 
baseball player Leslie Wayne Pinkham. It became one of baseball's most 
popular bats. Baseball Hall of Famers Cal Ripken Jr. and Robin Yount are 
among the players who used the P72 over the years. New York Yankee Derek 
Jeter used the P72 for every at bat in his 20 MLB seasons, with over 12,500 
plate appearances. On September 25, 2014, in honor of Jeter's impending 
retirement, the P72 designation was retired, and the bat was renamed the 
DJ2.[4] However descendants of Les Pinkam, for whom the P72 was created, 
will still be allowed to get the bat with its P72 designation. In addition 
to retiring the P72 model number, Louisville Slugger also promised to give 
the final 72 P72 bats produced to Jeter to raise funds for his Turn 2 Foundation. 
There are three branches of Hillerich & Bradsby: Louisville Slugger, Bionic 
Gloves, and Powerbilt Golf. Bionic Gloves were designed by a leading orthopedic 
surgeon, and are used in many sports and recreational activities. Currently, 
there are 11 types of gloves: Golf, Gardening, Tennis, Fitness, Equestrian, 
Driving, Dress, Motorcycle, Racquetball, Baseball, and Drummer gloves. 
Powerbilt Golf produces many types of golf clubs. They recently introduced 
clubs that feature nitrogen charged technology. Besides its products, H&B 
attaches the Louisville Slugger name to other entities as a sponsor. The 
Cincinnati Reds' Triple A affiliate, the Louisville Bats, play at Louisville 
Slugger Field in downtown Louisville. The Louisville Slugger name is also 
attached to awards for top power-hitters at both the high school and college 
levels, and the Silver Slugger Award given annually to the Major League 
Baseball player with the best offensive output in each position. The Louisville 
Slugger Batting Champion award is given to the American Legion "player 
with the highest batting average during national competition." Current 
Players: Brandon Phillips, Josh Hamilton, Dustin Pedroia, Brandon Belt, 
Jay Bruce, Nelson Cruz, Michael Cuddyer, Andre Ethier, Alex Gordon, Curtis 
Granderson, Jason Heyward, Adam Jones, Ian Kinsler, Evan Longoria, Buster 
Posey, Hanley Ramírez, Ben Revere, Alex Ríos, Carlos Santana, Drew Stubbs, 
Melvin Upton, Jr., Justin Upton, Joey Votto, David Wright, Ryan Zimmerman, 
Evan Gattis, Chris Davis, Jurickson Profar, Pedro Álvarez, David Freese, 
Starlin Castro, Billy Hamilton, Former MLB players: Derek Jeter, Hank Aaron, 
