Nippon Professional Baseball (1950–present) The Hiroshima Toyo Carp (広島東洋カープ, 
Hiroshima Tōyō Kāpu?) are a professional baseball team based in Hiroshima, 
Japan. They compete in the Central League of Nippon Professional Baseball. 
The team is primarily owned by the Matsuda family, led by Hajime Matsuda 
(松田元, Matsuda Hajime?), who is a descendant of Mazda founder Jujiro Matsuda. 
Mazda is the largest single shareholder (34.2%), which is less than the 
portion owned by the Matsuda family (about 60%). Because of that, Mazda 
is not considered as the owner firm. However, the company connection is 
highlighted in the club name—until 1984, Mazda's official name was Toyo 
Kogyo Co., Ltd. (東洋工業株式会社, Tōyō Kōgyō Kabushiki Gaisha?). The Nippon Professional 
Baseball league was scheduled to be expanded into two separate leagues 
in 1949, and Hiroshima prefecture decided to establish a professional baseball 
team as part of the reconstruction process from the devastation of the 
atomic bomb. The team joined the Central League in December 1949 as the 
Hiroshima Carp. The team's first home field was a prefecture-funded stadium, 
and the team's lack of sponsorship made it extremely difficult to gather 
players. Manager Hideichi Ishimoto had to personally scout players just 
to form a starting lineup. The ragtag team ended up in last place from 
1950 to 1951. The team's lack of funding became an even more serious problem 
in 1951, and it was proposed that the team be disbanded, or merge with 
the Taiyo Whales team, which was based in Shimonoseki, Yamaguchi at the 
time. Hiroshima citizens strongly protested against disbanding the team, 
and raised the money needed to keep the team through donations. The Central 
League had 7 teams in 1952, making it difficult to form a coherent schedule 
for each team[why?]. Therefore, it was decided that any team that ended 
the season with a winning percentage below .300 would be disbanded or merged 
with another team. This agreement was obviously aimed towards the Carp, 
since the team had been in last place every season. The team won only 37 
games in 1952, but ended with a .316 winning percentage to barely save 
itself from being disbanded. The Shochiku Robins ended the season in last 
place with a .288 winning percentage, and was merged with the Taiyo Whales. 
The team's financial plight only worsened in the following years, and the 
team could only issue one uniform per player in 1953. Nevertheless, the 
team continued to play each season, and finally ended the season above 
the .500 mark in 1960. The team moved to Hiroshima Municipal Stadium in 
July 1957. In 1968, Toyo Kogyo (current Mazda) became the team's chief 
sponsor, and the company name was inserted to become the Hiroshima Toyo 
Carp. The team ended the season above 3rd place for the first time the 
same year, but quickly fell back into last place from 1972 to 1974. Red 
became the new team color in 1973, and the team's uniforms were completely 
redone to resemble the current team uniform. The team logo was also changed 
from a letter "H" to a red "C" in imitation of the Cincinnati Reds logo. 
The team hired its first non-Japanese manager, Joe Lutz, in 1975. Lutz 
ordered the team's cap to be changed to red to symbolize a never-ending 
fighting spirit. Due to an umpiring dispute, Lutz left the team halfway 
into the season. However, the team won its first ever league championship 
in 1975 to begin a memorable series of championship berths. The Carp team 
became a powerhouse in 1978, hitting over 200 home runs in one season for 
the first time in Japanese baseball history. Koji Yamamoto, Sachio Kinugasa, 
Jim Lyttle and Adrian Garrett formed the powerful Akaheru (literally meaning 
"Red Helmet") lineup, which won two consecutive pennants and Japan Series 
from 1979 to 1980. A strong pitching staff led to another Japan Series 
win in 1984. Manager Takeshi Koba retired in 1985, but the team still won 
the pennant the following year. Star player Koji Yamamoto became manager 
in 1989, and the team won yet another pennant in 1991. However, the team 
fell into last place in 1993, and Yamamoto resigned from his position. 
After the early 90s, the Carp would not win a pennant again until 2016. 
To make matters worse, the Chunichi Dragons won a Japan Series championship 
in 2007, making the Carp the team furthest removed from a Japan Series 
championship as well. One of the major reasons for the team's recent demise[clarification 
needed] is the lack of financial support it receives from its sponsors. 
The team has never signed any free agents, and is often forced to let go 
of star players because they can no longer pay their salaries (recent examples 
include Tomoaki Kanemoto, Akira Etoh, Andy Sheets, Nate Minchey, John Bale, 
Greg LaRocca and Takahiro Arai). The Hiroshima Carp was the last Japanese 
team to have a non-Japanese player on its roster (excluding Japanese-Americans). 
Zoilo Versalles, the 1965 American League MVP, was the first non-Japanese 
player to play for the Carp. Marty Brown became the manager in 2006, becoming 
the first non-Japanese manager in 31 years since Joe Lutz. The team set 
a new record in April, 2006, scoring only 2 runs for the first 9 games 
of the season. Through still not finishing above third, the team concentrated 
on developing potential young players. In 2008, even though they were expected 
to finish last place as both the ace Hiroki Kuroda and slugger Takahiro 
Arai were gone by free agency, their chance entering of playoffs was not 
eliminated until the very end of the season (when only 3 games remained), 
and they finished fourth, closely following Chunichi Dragons. Since the 
2009 season, their home ground has been the New Hiroshima Municipal Stadium. 
The former uniforms of the Hiroshima Toyo Carp are similar to the Major 
League Baseball team the Cincinnati Reds. The original uniforms of the 
Hiroshima Carp are descendants of the uniforms worn by the University of 
Chicago's varsity baseball team which toured Japan in 1912 playing against 
major university teams. One team they played was Chuo Univeristy who copied 
the uniforms including the distinctive "C" logo. Alumni of the Chuo University 
team were instrumental in founding the Hiroshima Carp. The Carp was the 
first Japanese baseball team to establish a baseball academy outside Japan. 
The team was unable to recruit non-Japanese players from the major leagues 
due to financial constraints, and the academy was established to cheaply 
send young players to play in Japan. The Carp Baseball Academy was created 
in the Dominican Republic in 1990, and Robinson Checo became the first 
player imported to Japan from the academy in 1995. Checo achieved moderate 
success in Japan, leading to further imports which include Timo Pérez and 
