As player As manager Hiromitsu Ochiai (落合 博満 Ochiai Hiromitsu, born December 
9, 1953) is a former Japanese professional baseball player. He is former 
manager of the Chunichi Dragons in Japan's Nippon Professional Baseball. 
He is considered to be one of the most important people in the history 
of Japanese baseball, winning numerous batting awards and being the only 
player to receive the prestigious triple crown batting award three times. 
With 510 career home runs, Ochiai is sixth on the all-time NPB list. Ochiai 
was born in the town of Yuri in Akita, Japan, a rice-farming area of northern 
Honshū. Ochiai was the youngest of seven children and grew up enjoying 
spending time in the cinema rather than on the baseball field. At Toyo 
University, he quit after one year as he did not approve of the traditional 
way freshman players had to cater to the senior players on the team. He 
joined Toshiba Fuchu, a team in the Japanese industrial league, after leaving 
Toyo University and went back to his home town and spent some years as 
a professional bowler. In 1978, at 25 years old, the third baseman joined 
Lotte Orions after being selected in the third round of the draft. The 
Lotte manager did not care for his unorthodox right-handed batting style 
and Masaichi Kaneda criticized Ochiai, but Isao Harimoto supported Ochiai 
and Ochiai did not quit.[1] From 1981, Ochiai played a regular role for 
his team, and in 1982 he won his first triple crown batting title. He also 
won the Triple crown in 1985 and 1986, and continued winning titles through 
1991. In 1987, Ochiai was traded to the Chunichi Dragons by the Lotte Orions. 
During the 1994 season, the Yomiuri Giants picked up Ochiai as a free agent. 
After the Giants signed Kazuhiro Kiyohara in 1997, Ochiai joined the Nippon-Ham 
Fighters at the age of 43. At the conclusion of the 1998 season, Ochiai 
retired. Ochiai's style is called Oreryu(オレ流). Oreryu means "to do with 
only my style." The word described how he acted according to his personal 
philosophies. Hiromitsu Ochiai has been the manager of the Chunichi Dragons 
since 2004. He led the Dragons to the Japan Series during his inaugural 
year as manager in 2004, again in 2006, and led them to victory on the 
third try in 2007. His contract was not renewed after leading the Dragons 
to within a game of winning the 2011 Japan Series.[2] He was often criticized 
for his decision-making, such as removing starting pitcher Daisuke Yamai 
to start the ninth inning of game five of the 2007 Japan Series. Yamai 
had been pitching a perfect game. Closer Hitoki Iwase finished off the 
ninth for a rare combined perfect game to clinch the championship for the 
Dragons.[3] Ochiai was inducted into the Japanese Baseball Hall of Fame 
in 2011. The Hiromitsu Ochiai Baseball Hall opened in Taiji, Wakayama in 
1993 starting a trend of museums dedicated to famous ballplayers.[4] On 
October 9, 2013, Ochiai was appointed general manager of the Chunichi Dragons.[5] 
