Hispanic Americans and Latino Americans (Spanish: hispanos [isˈpanos], 
latinos) are American citizens who are descendants of the peoples of the 
Spanish-speaking countries of Latin America (see Spanish Empire and Spanish 
colonization of the Americas).[5][6][7] More generally, it includes all 
persons in the United States who self-identify as Hispanic or Latino, whether 
of full or partial ancestry.[8][9][10][11] For the US census in 2010, American 
Community Survey, people counted as "Hispanic" or "Latino" are those who 
identify as one of the specific Hispanic or Latino categories listed on 
the census or ACS questionnaire ("Mexican," "Puerto Rican," or "Cuban") 
as well as those who indicate that they are "other Spanish, Hispanic, or 
Latino." The national origins classified as Hispanic or Latino by the U.S. 
Census Bureau are the following: Spain, Argentina, Cuba, Colombia, Puerto 
Rico, Mexico, Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, 
Panama, El Salvador, Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, 
and Venezuela. Other U.S. government agencies have slightly different definitions 
of the term, including Brazilians and other Portuguese-speaking groups. 
The Census Bureau uses the terms Hispanic and Latino interchangeably.[12] 
Origin can be viewed as the ancestry, nationality group, lineage, or country 
of birth of the person or the person's parents or ancestors before their 
arrival in the United States. People who identify as Spanish, Hispanic, 
or Latino may be of any race.[13][14][15][16] As the only specifically 
designated category of ethnicity in the United States (other than non-Hispanic/Latino), 
Hispanics form a pan-ethnicity incorporating a diversity of inter-related 
cultural and linguistic heritages. Most Hispanic Americans are of Mexican, 
Puerto Rican, Cuban, Salvadoran, Dominican, Guatemalan, or Colombian origin. 
The predominant Hispanic origin varies widely across the country.[14][17][18][19][20] 
Hispanic Americans are the second fastest-growing ethnic group in the United 
States after Asian Americans.[21] Hispanic/Latinos overall are the second-largest 
ethnic group in the United States, after non-Hispanic Whites (a group which, 
like Hispanics and Latinos, is composed of dozens of sub-groups of differing 
national origin).[22] Hispanics have occupied territory of the present-day 
United States continuously[23][24][25][26] since the sixteenth-century 
founding by the Spanish of Saint Augustine, Florida. After Native Americans, 
Hispanics are the oldest ethnic group to inhabit much of what is today 
the United States. Many have Native American ancestry.[27][28][29][30] 
Spain colonized large areas of what is today the American Southwest and 
West Coast, including present-day California, New Mexico, Arizona, and 
Texas, all of which were under the Republic of Mexico after its independence 
in the 19th century and until the end of the Mexican–American War. The 
terms "Hispanic" and "Latino" refer to an ethnicity; people of this group 
may be of any race. Hispanic people may share some commonalities in their 
language, culture, history, and heritage. According to the Smithsonian 
Institution, the term "Latino" includes peoples with Portuguese roots, 
such as Brazilians, as well as those of Spanish-language origin.[31][32] 
A Hispanic or Latino can be of any race. In the United States, many Hispanics 
and Latinos are mixed-race mestizos of European and Native American ancestry. 
Others are wholly or predominately of European ancestry, or wholly or predominantly 
of Amerindian ancestry. Many Hispanics and Latinos from the Caribbean, 
as well as other regions of Latin America where slavery was widespread, 
may be of sub-Saharan African descent as well.[31][33] The difference between 
the terms Hispanic and Latino is confusing to some. The U.S. Census Bureau 
equates the two terms and defines them as referring to anyone from Spain 
and the Spanish-speaking countries of the Americas. The term Latino has 
developed a number of definitions. One definition of Latino is "a Latin 
male in the United States".[34] This is the oldest and the original definition 
used in the United States, first used in 1946.[citation needed] This definition 
encompasses both Spanish speakers from Europe and the Americas. Under this 
definition, immigrants from Spain and immigrants from Latin America are 
both Latino. This definition is consistent with the 21st-century usage 
by the U.S. Census Bureau and OMB, as the two agencies use both terms Hispanic 
and Latino interchangeably. A later definition of Latino is that it possibly 
could be a condensed form of the term "Latino-Americano", the Spanish word 
for Latin-American, or someone who comes from Latin America. Under this 
definition a Mexican American or Puerto Rican, for example, is both a Hispanic 
and a Latino. A Brazilian American is also a Latino by this definition, 
which would include those of Portuguese-speaking origin from Latin America. 
An immigrant from Spain would be classified as Hispanic but not Latino 
by this definition.[35][36][37][38][39][40] Filipinos and Guamanians are 
not considered "Hispanic", although some may speak Spanish, because Spanish 
is not the official language of either of their countries. The Philippines 
and Guam were colonies of Spain for hundreds of years, but there were not 
as many colonists in these areas as in the Americas. After the Spanish–American 
War and United States rule for decades in the Philippines, English became 
one of the predominant official languages in the country.[citation needed] 
While the U.S. Census Bureau's definition of "Hispanic" is limited to Spain 
and Spanish-speaking Latin America, other government agencies have slightly 
different definitions of the term. The US Department of Transportation 
defines "Hispanic" as "persons of Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, Dominican, 
Central or South American, or other Spanish or Portuguese culture or origin, 
regardless of race."[41] This definition has been adopted by the Small 
Business Administration as well as by many federal, state, and municipal 
agencies. Unlike the Census Bureau's definition, this clearly includes 
people with origins in Portuguese-speaking countries. Preference of use 
between the terms among Hispanics and Latinos in the United States often 
depends on where persons reside. Those in the Eastern United States tend 
to prefer the term Hispanic, whereas those in the West tend to prefer Latino.[13] 
Both terms refer to ethnicity, as a person of Latino or Hispanic origin 
can be of any race.[14][42] In Spanish, Latina is used for persons of feminine 
gender; Latino is used for those of masculine gender, or by default. For 
example, a group of mixed or unknown gender would be referred to as Latinos. 
The neologisms Latinx and Latin@[43] were coined as a gender-neutral alternative 
to this traditional usage.[44] The X functions as a variable, encompassing 
those who identify as male, female, or non-binary. The @ symbol is seen 
as containing both the masculine 'o' and feminine 'a', thus serving a similar 
purpose.[45] Neither has been widely adopted. Hispanic/Latinos have been 
settled continuously in the territory of the United States since the 16th 
century,[23][24][25][26] earlier than any other colonial group of European 
origin. Spanish explorers were pioneers in the territory of the present-day 
United States. The first confirmed European landing in the continental 
U.S. was by Juan Ponce de León, who landed in 1513 at a lush shore he christened 
La Florida. Within three decades of Ponce de León's landing, the Spanish 
became the first Europeans to reach the Appalachian Mountains, the Mississippi 
River, the Grand Canyon and the Great Plains. Spanish ships sailed along 
the East Coast, penetrating to present-day Bangor, Maine, and up the Pacific 
Coast as far as Oregon. From 1528 to 1536, Álvar Núñez Cabeza de Vaca and 
three fellows (including an African named Estevanico), from a Spanish expedition 
that foundered, journeyed from Florida to the Gulf of California, 267 years 
before the Lewis and Clark Expedition. In 1540 Hernando de Soto undertook 
an extensive exploration of the present U.S. That same year Francisco Vásquez 
de Coronado led 2,000 Spaniards and Mexican Indians across today's Arizona–Mexico 
border and traveled as far as central Kansas, close to the exact geographic 
center of what is now the continental United States. Other Spanish explorers 
of the US territory include, among others: Lucas Vázquez de Ayllón, Pánfilo 
de Narváez, Sebastián Vizcaíno, Gaspar de Portolà, Pedro Menéndez de Avilés, 
Álvar Núñez Cabeza de Vaca, Tristán de Luna y Arellano and Juan de Oñate, 
and non-Spanish explorers working for the Spanish Crown, such as Juan Rodríguez 
Cabrillo. In all, Spaniards probed half of today's lower 48 states before 
the first English colonization effort in 1585 at Roanoke Island off the 
East Coast. In 1565 the Spanish created the first permanent European settlement 
in the continental United States, at St. Augustine, Florida. Santa Fe, 
New Mexico was founded before Jamestown, Virginia (founded in 1607) and 
the New England Plymouth Colony (1620, of Mayflower and Pilgrims fame). 
Spanish missionaries and colonists founded settlements in El Paso, San 
Antonio, Tucson, San Diego, Los Angeles and San Francisco, to name a few. 
As late as 1783, at the end of the American Revolutionary War (a conflict 
in which Spain aided and fought alongside the rebels), Spain held claim 
to roughly half the territory of today's continental United States. From 
1819 to 1848, the United States (through treaties, purchase, diplomacy, 
and the Mexican–American War) increased its area by roughly a third at 
Spanish and Mexican expense, acquiring three of what are today's four most 
populous states—California, Texas and Florida. During the 20th and 21st 
centuries, Hispanic and Latino immigration to the US increased markedly 
following changes to the immigration law in 1965. Hispanic and Latino contributions 
in the history and present of the United States are addressed in more detail 
below (See Notables and their contributions). To recognize the current 
and historic contributions of Hispanic and Latino Americans, on September 
17, 1968, President Lyndon B. Johnson designated a week in mid-September 
as National Hispanic Heritage Week, with Congress's authorization. In 1988, 
President Ronald Reagan extended the observance to a month, designated 
Hispanic Heritage Month.[47] As of 2011, Hispanics accounted for 16.7% 
of the national population, or around 52 million people.[48] The Hispanic 
growth rate over the April 1, 2000 to July 1, 2007 period was 28.7%—about 
four times the rate of the nation's total population (at 7.2%).[49] The 
growth rate from July 1, 2005 to July 1, 2006 alone was 3.4%[50]—about 
three and a half times the rate of the nation's total population (at 1.0%).[49] 
Based on the 2010 census, Hispanics are now the largest minority group 
in 191 out of 366 metropolitan areas in the US.[51] The projected Hispanic 
population of the United States for July 1, 2050 is 132.8 million people, 
or 30.2% of the nation's total projected population on that date.[52] US 
metropolitan areas with over 1 million Hispanics (2011)[53] States and 
territories with the highest proportion of Hispanics (2010)[citation needed] 
Of the nation's total Hispanic or Latino population, 49% (21.5 million) 
live in California or Texas.[54] Over half of the Hispanic/Latino population 
is concentrated in the Southwest region, mostly composed of Mexican Americans. 
California and Texas have some of the largest populations of Mexicans and 
Central American Latinos in the United States. The Northeast region is 
dominated by Puerto Ricans and Dominican Americans, having the highest 
concentrations of both in the country. In the Mid Atlantic region, centered 
on the DC Metro Area, Salvadoran Americans are the largest of Hispanic 
groups. Florida is dominated by Cuban Americans and Puerto Ricans. In both 
the Great Lakes States and the South Atlantic States, Mexicans and Puerto 
Ricans dominate. Mexicans dominate in the rest of the country, including 
the Western United States, South Central United States and Great Plains 
states. As of 2007, some 64% of the nation's Hispanic population are of 
Mexican origin (see table). Another 9% are of Puerto Rican origin, with 
about 3% each of Cuban, Salvadoran and Dominican origins. The remainder 
are of other Central American or South American origin, or of origin directly 
from Spain. 60.2% of all Hispanic and Latino Americans were born in the 
United States.[55] There are few immigrants directly from Spain, since 
Spaniards have historically emigrated to Latin America rather than English-speaking 
countries. In the 2000 Census, 299,948 Americans, of whom 83% were native-born,[56] 
specifically reported their ancestry as Spaniard.[57] However a larger 
amount of people, in the 2000 Census some 2,187,144 Americans reported 
"Spanish" as their ancestry, whether directly from Spain or not. In northern 
New Mexico and southern Colorado, there is a large portion of Hispanics 
who trace their ancestry to Spanish settlers of the late 16th century through 
the 17th century. People from this background often self-identify as "Hispanos", 
"Spanish", or "Hispanic". Many of these settlers also intermarried with 
local Amerindians, creating a Mestizo population.[58] Likewise, southern 
Louisiana is home to communities of people of Canary Islands descent, known 
as Isleños, in addition to other people of Spanish ancestry. Chicanos, 
Californios, Nuevomexicanos and Tejanos are Americans of Spanish and or 
Mexican descent. Chicanos live in the Southwest, Nuevomexicanos in New 
Mexico, and Tejanos in Texas. Nuevomexicanos and Tejanos are distinct cultures 
with their own cuisines, dialects and musical traditions.The term "Chicano" 
became popular amongst Mexican Americans in the 1960s during the Chicano 
nationalism and Chicano Movement, and is today seen as an ethnic and cultural 
identity by some. Political activist César Chávez and novelist José Antonio 
Villarreal are famous Chicanos. Nuyoricans are Americans of Puerto Rican 
descent from the New York City area. There are close to two million Nuyoricans 
in the US. Famous Nuyoricans include US Supreme Court Judge Sonia Sotomayor 
and singer Jennifer Lopez. Hispanic or Latino origin is independent of 
race and is termed "ethnicity" by the United States Census Bureau. According 
to the 2007 American Community Survey, 42% of Hispanic and Latinos were 
White. The largest numbers of White Hispanics come from within the Mexican, 
Puerto Rican, Cuban and Colombian, communities.[61][62] The largest numbers 
of Black Hispanics are from the Spanish Caribbean islands, including the 
Cuban, Dominican, Panamanian, and Puerto Rican, communities. A significant 
portion of the Hispanic and Latino population self-identifies as Mestizo, 
particularly the Mexican and Central American community. Mestizo is not 
a racial category in the U.S. Census, but signifies someone who has both 
European and American Indian Ancestry. According to the 2010 United States 
Census, 36.7% of Hispanic/Latino Americans identify as "some other race" 
as these Hispanic/Latinos may feel the U.S. census does not describe their 
European or American Indian ancestry as they understand it to be.[60] Half 
of the Hispanic/Latino population in the United States self-identifies 
as white. Most of the multi-racial population in the Mexican, Salvadoran, 
and Guatemalan communities are of European and Native American ancestry 
(Mestizo), while most of the multiracial population in the Puerto Rican, 
Dominican, and Cuban communities are of European and African ancestry (Mulatto). 
Hispanic and Latinos are racially diverse, although different "races" are 
usually the majority of each Hispanic group. For example, of major US Hispanic 
groups with populations of over 1 million, in northern Mexico, most people 
are White or bi-racial having White/Native American Ancestry, while in 
southern Mexico, the majority are Native American or of Native American 
and European Ancestry. In Guatemala, Native American and bi-racial people 
of Native American and European descent make the majority, while in El 
Salvador, whites and Bi-racial people of Native American/European descent 
are the majority. In the Dominican Republic the population are largely 
made up of people with inter-mixed ancestries, in which there are even 
levels of African and European ancestry, with smaller numbers of Whites 
and Blacks as well. In Puerto Rico, people with European ancestry are the 
majority. There are also populations of predominantly of African descent 
as well as populations of American Indian descent as well as those with 
inter-mixed ancestries. Cubans are mostly of White Latin American ancestry, 
however there are also populations of Blacks and multi-racials as well.[65][66][66][67] 
The race and culture of each Hispanic/Latino country and their United States 
diaspora differs by history and geography. Mexicans represent the bulk 
of the US Hispanic/Latino population, and most Mexican Americans that migrate 
to the United States are of Native American and White descent, which causes 
many non-Hispanics to equate being Hispanic with being of mestizo or Native 
American ancestry. Official sources report the racial makeup of these Hispanic 
subgroups as follows, Argentina,[68] Uruguay,[68] Puerto Rico,[68] Cuba,[68] 
and Chile,[68] having the highest percentage of Hispanics self-identifying 
as white in their respective countries. As a result of their racial diversity, 
Hispanics form an ethnicity sharing a language (Spanish) and cultural heritage, 
rather than a race.The phenomenon of bi-racial people who are predominantly 
of European descent identifying as white is not limited to Hispanics or 
Spanish speakers but is also common among English speakers as well. researchers 
found that most White Americans with less than 28 percent African-American 
ancestry say they are White. Above that threshold, people tended to describe 
themselves as African-American.[69] Hispanic and Latino Americans have 
made distinguished contributions to the United States in all major fields, 
such as politics, the military, music, literature, philosophy, sports, 
business and economy, and science.[70] In 1995, the American Latino Media 
Arts Award, or ALMA Award was created. It's a distinction given to Latino 
performers (actors, film and television directors, and musicians) by the 
National Council of La Raza. There are many Hispanic American musicians 
that have achieved international fame, such as Mariah Carey, Jennifer López, 
Joan Baez, Linda Ronstadt, Carmen Miranda, Zack de la Rocha, Fergie, Gloria 
Estefan, Celia Cruz, Tito Puente, Kat DeLuna, Selena, Ricky Martin, Marc 
Anthony, Carlos Santana, Christina Aguilera, Selena Gomez, Los Lonely Boys, 
Frankie J, Jerry García, Demi Lovato, Miguel del Aguila, Pierce the Veil, 
Robert Trujillo, Aventura and Tom Araya. Among the Hispanic American musicians 
who were pioneers in the early stages of rock and roll were Ritchie Valens, 
who scored several hits, most notably "La Bamba" and Herman Santiago wrote 
the lyrics to the iconic rock and roll song "Why Do Fools Fall in Love". 
Songs that became popular in the United States and are heard during the 
Holiday/Christmas season are "¿Dónde Está Santa Claus?" is a novelty Christmas 
song with 12-year-old (Augie Ríos) was a record hit in 1959 which featured 
the Mark Jeffrey Orchestra. "Feliz Navidad" by José Feliciano. In 1986, 
Billboard magazine introduced the Hot Latin Songs chart which ranks the 
best-performing songs on Spanish-language radio stations in the United 
States. Seven years later, Billboard initiated the Top Latin Albums which 
ranks top-selling Latin albums in the United States.[71] Similarly, the 
Recording Industry Association of America incorporated "Los Premios de 
Oro y Platino" (The Gold and Platinum Awards) to certify Latin recordings 
which contains at least 50% of its content recorded in Spanish.[72] In 
1989, Univision established the Lo Nuestro Awards which became the first 
award ceremony to recognize the most talented performers of Spanish-language 
music and was considered to be the "Hispanic Grammys".[73][74] In 2000, 
the Latin Academy of Recording Arts & Sciences (LARAS) established the 
Latin Grammy Awards to recognize musicians who perform in Spanish and Portuguese.[75] 
Unlike The Recording Academy, LARAS extends its membership internationally 
to Spanish- and Portuguese-speaking communities worldwide in Latin America, 
Spain, and Portugal.[76] Hispanics and Latinos have also contributed some 
prominent actors and others in the film industry, a few of whom includes 
actors José Ferrer, the first Hispanic actor to win an Academy Award for 
his role in Cyrano de Bergerac, Fernando Lamas, Anthony Quinn, Cameron 
Diaz, Uma Thurman, Martin Sheen, Rodrigo Santoro, Beatriz Michelena, Vera 
Michelena, Fernanda Montenegro, Daniel de Oliveira, Wagner Moura, Cheech 
Marín, Salma Hayek, Dolores del Río, Anita Page, Rita Hayworth, Antonio 
Banderas, Raquel Welch, Benicio del Toro, Eva Mendes, Zoe Saldana, Edward 
James Olmos, Maria Montez, Ramón Novarro, Ricardo Montalbán, Cesar Romero, 
Rosie Perez, Katy Jurado, Rita Moreno, Lupe Vélez, Esai Morales, Andy García, 
Maria Conchita Alonso, Rosario Dawson, John Leguizamo, Rosie Perez, Adrienne 
Bailon and, behind the camera, directors Robert Rodriguez, Guillermo del 
Toro, Alfonso Cuarón and Brett Ratner (also producers and cinematographers) 
and Luis Valdez. In standup comedy, Paul Rodríguez, Greg Giraldo, Cheech 
Marin, George Lopez, Freddie Prinze, Jade Esteban Estrada, Carlos Mencia, 
John Mendoza, Gabriel Iglesias, and others are prominent. Some of the Hispanic 
or Latino actors who achieved notable success in U.S. television include 
Desi Arnaz, Lynda Carter, Jimmy Smits, Selena Gomez, Carlos Pena Jr., Eva 
Longoria, Sofía Vergara, Benjamin Bratt, Ricardo Montalbán, America Ferrera, 
Erik Estrada, Cote de Pablo, Freddie Prinze, Lauren Vélez, and Charlie 
Sheen. Kenny Ortega is an Emmy Award-winning producer, director, and choreographer 
who has choreographed many major television events such as Super Bowl XXX, 
the 72nd Academy Awards, and Michael Jackson's memorial service. Hispanics 
and Latinos are underrepresented in U.S. television, radio, and film. This 
is combatted by organizations such as the Hispanic Organization of Latin 
Actors (HOLA), founded in 1975; and National Hispanic Media Coalition (NHMC), 
founded in 1986.[78] Together with numerous Latino civil rights organizations, 
the NHMC led a "brownout" of the national television networks in 1999, 
after discovering that there were no Latinos in any of their new prime 
time shows that year.[79] This resulted in the signing of historic diversity 
agreements with ABC, CBS, Fox, and NBC that have since increased the hiring 
of Hispanic and Latino talent and other staff in all of the networks. Latino 
Public Broadcasting (LPB) funds programs of educational and cultural significance 
to Hispanic Americans. These programs are distributed to various public 
television stations throughout the United States. The total number of Hispanic-owned 
businesses in 2002 was 1.6 million, having grown at triple the national 
rate for the preceding five years.[47] Hispanic and Latino business leaders 
include Cuban immigrant Roberto Goizueta, who rose to head of The Coca-Cola 
Company.[80] Advertising Mexican-American magnate Arte Moreno became the 
first Hispanic to own a major league team in the United States when he 
purchased the Los Angeles Angels baseball club.[81] Also a major sports 
team owner is Mexican-American Linda G. Alvarado, president and CEO of 
Alvarado Construction, Inc and co-owner of the Colorado Rockies baseball 
team. The largest Hispanic-owned food company in the US is Goya Foods, 
because of World War II hero Joseph A. Unanue, the son of the company's 
founders.[83] Angel Ramos was the founder of Telemundo, Puerto Rico's first 
television station[84] and now the second largest Spanish-language television 
network in the United States, with an average viewership over one million 
in primetime. Samuel A. Ramirez, Sr. made Wall Street history by becoming 
the first Hispanic to launch a successful investment banking firm, Ramirez 
& Co.[85][86] Nina Tassler is president of CBS Entertainment since September 
2004. She is the highest-profile Latina in network television and one of 
the few executives who has the power to approve the airing or renewal of 
series. In the world of fashion, notable Hispanic and Latino designers 
include Oscar de la Renta, Carolina Herrera, and Narciso Rodríguez among 
others. Christy Turlington, Gisele Bündchen and Lea T achieved international 
fame as models. As of 2007 there were more than five thousand elected officeholders 
in the United States who were of Latino origin.[87] In the House of Representatives, 
Hispanic and Latino representatives have included Ladislas Lazaro, Antonio 
M. Fernández, Henry B. Gonzalez, Kika de la Garza, Herman Badillo, Romualdo 
Pacheco, and Manuel Lujan, Jr., out of almost two dozen former Representatives. 
Current Representatives include Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Jose E. Serrano, Luis 
Gutiérrez, Nydia Velázquez, Xavier Becerra, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Loretta 
Sanchez, Rubén Hinojosa, Mario Diaz-Balart, Raul Grijalva, Ben R. Lujan, 
Jaime Herrera Beutler, Raul Labrador, and Alex Mooney—in all, they number 
thirty. Former senators are Octaviano Ambrosio Larrazolo, Mel Martinez, 
Dennis Chavez, Joseph Montoya, and Ken Salazar. As of January 2011, the 
U.S. Senate includes Hispanic members Bob Menendez, a Democrat, and Republicans 
Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio, all Cuban Americans.[88] Numerous Hispanics and 
Latinos hold elective and appointed office in state and local government 
throughout the United States.[89] Current Hispanic Governors include Republican 
Nevada Governor Brian Sandoval and Republican New Mexico Governor Susana 
Martinez; upon taking office in 2011, Martinez became the first Latina 
governor in the history of the United States.[90] Former Hispanic governors 
include Democrats Jerry Apodaca, Raul Hector Castro, and Bill Richardson, 
as well as Republicans Octaviano Ambrosio Larrazolo, Romualdo Pacheco, 
and Bob Martinez. Since 1988,[91] when Ronald Reagan appointed Lauro Cavazos 
the Secretary of Education, the first Hispanic United States Cabinet member, 
Hispanic Americans have had an increasing presence in presidential administrations. 
Hispanics serving in subsequent cabinets include Ken Salazar, current Secretary 
of the Interior; Hilda Solis, current United States Secretary of Labor; 
Alberto Gonzales, former United States Attorney General; Carlos Gutierrez, 
Secretary of Commerce; Federico Peña, former Secretary of Energy; Henry 
Cisneros, former Secretary of Housing and Urban Development; Manuel Lujan, 
Jr., former Secretary of the Interior; and Bill Richardson, former Secretary 
of Energy and Ambassador to the United Nations. Rosa Rios is the current 
US Treasurer, including the latest three, were Hispanic women. In 2009, 
Sonia Sotomayor became the first Supreme Court Associate Justice of Hispanic 
or Latino origin. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC), founded in December 
1976, and the Congressional Hispanic Conference (CHC), founded on March 
19, 2003, are two organizations that promote policy of importance to Americans 
of Hispanic descent. They are divided into the two major American political 
parties: The Congressional Hispanic Caucus is composed entirely of Democratic 
representatives, whereas the Congressional Hispanic Conference is composed 
entirely of Republican representatives. Among the distinguished Hispanic 
and Latino authors and works are: Hispanics and Latinos have participated 
in the military of the United States and in every major military conflict 
from the American Revolution onward.[93] 11% to 13% military personnel 
now are Latinos and they have been deployed in the Iraq War, the Afghanistan 
War, and U.S. military missions and bases elsewhere.[94] Hispanics and 
Latinos have not only distinguished themselves in the battlefields but 
also reached the high echelons of the military, serving their country in 
sensitive leadership positions on domestic and foreign posts. Up to now, 
43 Hispanics and Latinos have been awarded the nation's highest military 
distinction, the Medal of Honor (also known as the Congressional Medal 
of Honor). The following is a list of some notable Hispanics/Latinos in 
the military: The following 43 Hispanics were awarded the Medal of Honor: 
Philip Bazaar, Joseph H. De Castro, John Ortega, France Silva, David B. 
Barkley, Lucian Adams, Rudolph B. Davila, Marcario Garcia, Harold Gonsalves, 
David M. Gonzales, Silvestre S. Herrera, Jose M. Lopez, Joe P. Martinez, 
Manuel Perez Jr., Cleto L. Rodriguez, Alejandro R. Ruiz, Jose F. Valdez, 
Ysmael R. Villegas, Fernando Luis García, Edward Gomez, Ambrosio Guillen, 
Rodolfo P. Hernandez, Baldomero Lopez, Benito Martinez, Eugene Arnold Obregon, 
Joseph C. Rodriguez, John P. Baca, Roy P. Benavidez, Emilio A. De La Garza, 
Ralph E. Dias, Daniel Fernandez, Alfredo Cantu "Freddy" Gonzalez, Jose 
Francisco Jimenez, Miguel Keith, Carlos James Lozada, Alfred V. Rascon, 
Louis R. Rocco, Euripides Rubio, Hector Santiago-Colon, Elmelindo Rodrigues 
Smith, Jay R. Vargas, Humbert Roque Versace, and Maximo Yabes. Among Hispanic 
Americans who have excelled in science are Luis Walter Álvarez, Nobel Prize–winning 
physicist, and his son Walter Alvarez, a geologist. They first proposed 
that an asteroid impact on the Yucatán Peninsula caused the extinction 
of the dinosaurs. Mario J. Molina won the Nobel Prize in chemistry and 
currently works in the chemistry department at the University of California, 
San Diego. Dr. Victor Manuel Blanco is an astronomer who in 1959 discovered 
"Blanco 1", a galactic cluster.[114] F. J. Duarte is a laser physicist 
and author; he received the Engineering Excellence Award from the prestigious 
Optical Society of America for the invention of the N-slit laser interferometer.[115] 
Alfredo Quiñones-Hinojosa is the Director of the Pituitary Surgery Program 
at Johns Hopkins Hospital and the Director of the Brain Tumor Stem Cell 
Laboratory at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine. Physicist Albert Baez made 
important contributions to the early development of X-ray microscopes and 
later X-ray telescopes. His nephew John Carlos Baez is also a noted mathematical 
physicist. Francisco J. Ayala is a biologist and philosopher, former president 
of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and has been 
awarded the National Medal of Science and the Templeton Prize. Peruvian-American 
biophysicist Carlos Bustamante has been named a Searle Scholar and Alfred 
P. Sloan Foundation Fellow. Luis von Ahn is one of the pioneers of crowdsourcing 
and the founder of the companies reCAPTCHA and Duolingo. Colombian-American 
Ana Maria Rey received a MacArthur Fellowship for her work in atomic physics 
in 2013. Dr. Fernando E. Rodríguez Vargas discovered the bacteria that 
cause dental cavity. Dr. Gualberto Ruaño is a biotechnology pioneer in 
the field of personalized medicine and the inventor of molecular diagnostic 
systems, Coupled Amplification and Sequencing (CAS) System, used worldwide 
for the management of viral diseases.[116] Fermín Tangüis was an agriculturist 
and scientist who developed the Tangüis Cotton in Peru and saved that nation's 
cotton industry.[117] Severo Ochoa, born in Spain, was a co-winner of the 
1959 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine. Dr. Sarah Stewart, a Mexican-American 
Microbiologist, is credited with the discovery of the Polyomavirus and 
successfully demonstrating that cancer causing viruses could be transmitted 
from animal to animal. Mexican-American psychiatrist Dr. Nora Volkow, whose 
brain imaging studies helped characterize the mechanisms of drug addiction, 
is the current director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse. Dr. Helen 
Rodríguez Trías, an early advocate for women's reproductive rights, helped 
drive and draft U.S. federal sterilization guidelines in 1979. She was 
awarded the Presidential Citizens Medal by President Bill Clinton, and 
was the first Latina president of the American Public Health Association. 
Some Hispanics and Latinos have made their names in astronautics, including 
several NASA astronauts:[118] Franklin Chang-Diaz, the first Latin American 
NASA astronaut, is co-recordholder for the most flights in outer space, 
and is the leading researcher on the plasma engine for rockets; France 
A. Córdova, former NASA chief scientist; Juan R. Cruz, NASA aerospace engineer; 
Lieutenant Carlos I. Noriega, NASA mission specialist and computer scientist; 
Dr. Orlando Figueroa, mechanical engineer and Director of Mars Exploration 
in NASA; Amri Hernández-Pellerano, engineer who designs, builds and tests 
the electronics that will regulate the solar array power in order to charge 
the spacecraft battery and distribute power to the different loads or users 
inside various spacecraft at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center. Olga D. 
González-Sanabria won an R&D 100 Award for her role in the development 
of the "Long Cycle-Life Nickel-Hydrogen Batteries" which help enable the 
International Space Station power system. Mercedes Reaves, research engineer 
and scientist who is responsible for the design of a viable full-scale 
solar sail and the development and testing of a scale model solar sail 
at NASA Langley Research Center. Dr. Pedro Rodríguez, inventor and mechanical 
engineer who is the director of a test laboratory at NASA and of a portable, 
battery-operated lift seat for people suffering from knee arthritis. Dr. 
Felix Soto Toro, electrical engineer and astronaut applicant who developed 
the Advanced Payload Transfer Measurement System (ASPTMS) (Electronic 3D 
measuring system); Ellen Ochoa, a pioneer of spacecraft technology and 
astronaut; Joseph Acaba, Fernando Caldeiro, Sidney Gutierrez, Jose Hernández, 
Michael López-Alegría, John Olivas, and George Zamka, who are current or 
former astronauts. The large number of Hispanic and Latino American stars 
in Major League Baseball (MLB) includes players like Ted Williams (considered 
by many to be the greatest hitter of all time), Alex Rodriguez, Alex Rios, 
Miguel Cabrera, Lefty Gómez, Iván Rodríguez, Carlos González, Roberto Clemente, 
Adrian Gonzalez, Jose Fernandez, David Ortiz, Fernando Valenzuela, Nomar 
Garciaparra, Albert Pujols, Omar Vizquel, managers Al López, Ozzie Guillén, 
and Felipe Alou, and General Manager Omar Minaya. There have been far fewer 
football and basketball players, let alone star players, but Tom Flores 
was the first Hispanic head coach and the first Hispanic quarterback in 
American professional football, and won Super Bowls as a player, as assistant 
coach and as head coach for the Oakland Raiders. Anthony Múñoz is enshrined 
in the Pro Football Hall of Fame, ranked #17 on Sporting News's 1999 list 
of the 100 greatest football players, and was the highest-ranked offensive 
lineman. Jim Plunkett won the Heisman Trophy and was inducted into the 
College Football Hall of Fame, and Joe Kapp is inducted into the Canadian 
Football Hall of Fame and College Football Hall of Fame. Steve Van Buren, 
Martin Gramatica, Victor Cruz, Tony Gonzalez, Marc Bulger, Tony Romo and 
Mark Sanchez can also be cited among successful Hispanics and Latinos in 
the National Football League (NFL). Trevor Ariza, Mark Aguirre, Carmelo 
Anthony, Manu Ginobili, Carlos Arroyo, Gilbert Arenas, Rolando Blackman, 
Pau Gasol, Jose Calderon, José Juan Barea and Charlie Villanueva can be 
cited in the National Basketball Association (NBA). Dick Versace made history 
when he became the first person of Hispanic heritage to coach an NBA team. 
Rebecca Lobo was a major star and champion of collegiate (National Collegiate 
Athletic Association (NCAA)) and Olympic basketball and played professionally 
in the Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA). Diana Taurasi became 
just the seventh player ever to win an NCAA title, a WNBA title, and as 
well an Olympic gold medal. Orlando Antigua became in 1995 the first Hispanic 
and the first non-black in 52 years to play for the Harlem Globetrotters. 
Tennis players includes legend Pancho Gonzales and Olympic tennis champions 
and professional players Mary Joe Fernández and Gigi Fernández and 2016 
Puerto Rican Gold Medalist Monica Puig. Hispanics are present in all major 
American sports and leagues, but have particularly influenced the growth 
in popularity of soccer in the United States. Soccer is the most popular 
sport across Latin America and Spain, and Hispanics brought the heritage 
of soccer playing to the US. Major League Soccer teams such as Chivas USA, 
LA Galaxy, and the Houston Dynamo, for example, have a fanbase composed 
primarily of Mexican Americans.[119][120][121] Association football players 
in the Major League Soccer (MLS) includes several like Tab Ramos, Claudio 
Reyna, Omar Gonzalez, Marcelo Balboa and Carlos Bocanegra. Boxing's first 
Hispanic world champion was Panama Al Brown. Some other champions include 
Julio César Chávez, Oscar De La Hoya, Miguel Cotto, Bobby Chacon, Joel 
Casamayor, Brandon Ríos, Michael Carbajal, John Ruiz, and Carlos Ortiz. 
Ricco Rodriguez, Tito Ortiz, Diego Sanchez, Nick Diaz, Nathan Diaz' Dominick 
Cruz, Frank Shamrock, Gilbert Melendez, Roger Huerta, Carlos Condit, Kelvin 
Gastelum, and UFC Heavy Weight Champion Cain Velasquez have been competitors 
in the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) of mixed martial arts. In 1991 
Bill Guerin whose mother is Nicaraguan became the first Hispanic player 
in the National Hockey League (NHL). He was also selected to four NHL All-Star 
Games. In 1999 Scott Gomez won the NHL Rookie of the Year Award.[122] Figure 
skater Rudy Galindo; golfers Chi Chi Rodríguez, Nancy López, and Lee Trevino; 
softball player Lisa Fernández; and Paul Rodríguez Jr., X Games professional 
skateboarder, are all Hispanic or Latino Americans who have distinguished 
themselves in their sports. In sports entertainment we find the professional 
wrestlers Alberto Del Rio, Rey Mysterio, Eddie Guerrero, Tyler Black and 
Melina Pérez, and executive Vickie Guerrero. With the increasing Hispanic 
population in the United States, Latinos have had a considerable impact 
on the K-12 system. In 2011-12, Latina/os comprised 24% of all enrollments 
in the United States, including 52% and 51% of enrollment in California 
and Texas, respectively.[123] Further research shows the Latinos will continue 
to grow in the United States, implicating that more Latinos will populate 
U.S schools. The state of Latina/o education shows some promise. First, 
Hispanic students attending pre-K or kindergarten were more likely to attend 
full-day programs.[123] Second, Latinos in elementary education were the 
second largest group represented in gifted and talented programs.[123] 
Third, Hispanic’s average NAEP math and reading scores have consistently 
increased over the last 10 years.[123] Finally, Latina/os were more likely 
than other groups, including whites, to go to college.[123] However, their 
academic achievement in early childhood, elementary, and secondary education 
lag behind other groups.[123] For instance, their average math and reading 
NAEP scores were lower than every other group, except African Americans, 
and have the highest dropout rate of any group, 13% despite decreasing 
from 24%.[123] To explain these disparities, some scholars have suggested 
there is a Latino "Education Crisis" due to failed school and social policies.[124] 
To this end, scholars have further offered several potential reasons including 
language barriers, poverty, and immigrant/nativity status resulting in 
Latinos not performing well academically.[125] Currently, 80% of Hispanic 
students in the U.S. are English Language Learners.[126] In 2008-9, 5.3 
million students were classified as English Language Learners (ELLs) in 
pre-K to 12th grade.[127] This is a result of many students entering the 
education system at different points of their life course, although the 
majority of ELLs are not foreign born.[127] In order to provide English 
instruction for Latinos students there have been a multitude of English 
Language programs. However, the great majority of these programs are English 
Immersion that undermine the students’ culture and knowledge of their primary 
language.[128] As such, there continues to be great debate within schools 
as to which program can address these language disparities. Poverty affects 
many underrepresented students as racial/ethnic minorities tend stay isolated 
with pockets of low-income communities. This results in several inequalities, 
such as "school offerings, teacher quality, curriculum, counseling and 
all manner of things that both keep students engaged in school and prepare 
them to graduate."[129] In the case of Latinos the poverty rate for Hispanic 
Children in 2004 was 28.6 percent.[126] Moreover, with these lack of resources, 
schools reproduce these inequalities for generations to come. In order 
to assuage poverty, many Hispanic families can turn to social and community 
services as resources. Immigrants have not always had access to compulsory 
education in the United States. However, due to the Landmark Supreme Court 
Plyler v. Doe in 1982, immigrants are allowed access to K-12 education. 
This significantly impacted all immigrant groups, including Latina/os. 
However, their academic achievement is dependent upon several factors including, 
but not limited to time of arrival and schooling in country of origin.[130] 
Moreover, Latinos immigration/nativity status plays a major role regarding 
their academic achievement. For instance, first- and second- generation 
Latinos outperform their later generational counterparts.[131] Additionally, 
their aspirations appear to decrease as well.[132] This has major implications 
on their postsecondary futures. Those with a bachelor's degree or higher 
ranges from 50% of Venezuelans compared to 18% for Ecuadorians 25 years 
and older. Amongst the largest Hispanic groups, those with a bachelors 
or higher was 25% for Cuban Americans, 16% of Puerto Ricans, 15% of Dominicans, 
and 11% for Mexican Americans. Over 21% of all second-generation Dominican 
Americans have college degrees, slightly below the national average (28%) 
but significantly higher than U.S.-born Mexican Americans (13%) and U.S.-born 
Puerto Rican Americans (12%).[133] Hispanic and Latinos make up the second 
or third largest ethnic group in Ivy League universities, considered to 
be the most prestigious in the United States. Hispanic and Latino enrollment 
at Ivy League universities has gradually increased over the years. Today, 
Hispanics make up between 8% of students at Yale University to 15% at Columbia 
University.[134] For example, 18% of students in the Harvard University 
Class of 2018 are Hispanic.[135] Hispanics have significant enrollment 
in many other top universities such as University of Texas at El Paso (70% 
of students), Florida International University (63%), University of Miami 
(27%), and MIT, UCLA, & UC-Berkeley at 15% each. At Stanford University, 
Hispanics are the third largest ethnic group behind non-Hispanic Whites 
and Asians, at 18% of the student population.[136] Hispanics study in universities 
around the country, but can also attend to Hispanic-serving institution, 
institutions that are part of a federal program designed to assist colleges 
or universities in the United States that attempt to assist first generation, 
majority low income Hispanic students. There are over 250 schools that 
have been designated as an HSI. Hispanic and Latino Americans are the longest-living 
Americans, according to official data. Their life expectancy is more than 
two years longer than for non-Hispanic whites and almost eight years longer 
than for African Americans.[148] In 2011, the average individual income 
among Hispanic and Latino Americans was highest for Cuban Americans and 
Argentinian Americans ($55,000), and lowest for Honduran Americans ($30,000). 
For other large Hispanic groups the incomes were as follows: Salvadoran 
Americans ($32,000), Mexican Americans ($38,000), Guatemalan Americans 
($36,400), Puerto Ricans ($36,000) and Dominican Americans ($31,000).[150] 
Among Hispanics, Cuban Americans (28.5 percent) had the highest percentage 
in professional–managerial occupations. The percentage for Mexican Americans 
was 20.7, Central and South Americans' was 8.8 percent, and Puerto Ricans 
was 7.2 percent. All these are lower than the average for non-Hispanics 
(36.2 percent).[citation needed] According to the U.S. Census, the poverty 
rate among the six largest Hispanic groups during the period of 2007-2011 
was: Dominican Americans (26.3 percent), Puerto Ricans (25.6), Guatemalan 
Americans (25.1), Mexican Americans (24.9 percent), Salvadoran Americans 
(18.9) and Cuban Americans (14.2).[150] In comparison, the average poverty 
rates for non-Hispanic White Americans (12.8 percent)[150] and Asian Americans 
(11.3 percent) were lower than those of any Hispanic group. African Americans 
(25.8 percent) had a higher poverty rate than Cuban Americans, Salvadoran 
Americans, Mexican Americans, Guatemalan Americans and Puerto Ricans, but 
had a lower poverty rate than Dominican Americans.[150] The geographic, 
political, social, economic, and racial diversity of Hispanic and Latino 
Americans makes all Hispanics very different depending on their family 
heritage and/or national origin. Yet several features tend to unite Hispanics 
from these diverse backgrounds. As one of the most important uniting factors 
of Hispanic Americans, Spanish is an important part of Hispanic culture. 
Teaching Spanish to children is often one of the most valued skills taught 
amongst Hispanic families. Spanish is not only closely tied with the person's 
family, heritage, and overall culture, but valued for increased opportunities 
in business and one's future professional career. A 2013 Pew Research survey 
showed that 95% of Hispanic adults said "it's important that future generations 
of Hispanics speak Spanish."[151][157] Given the United States proximity 
to other Spanish-speaking countries, Spanish is being passed on to future 
American generations. Amongst second-generation Hispanics, 80% speak fluent 
Spanish, and amongst third-generation Hispanics, 40% speak fluent Spanish.[158] 
Hispanics have revived the Spanish language in the United States. First 
brought to North America by the Spanish during the Spanish colonial period 
in the 16th century, Spanish was the first European language spoken in 
the Americas. Spanish is the oldest European language in the United States, 
spoken uninterruptedly for four and a half centuries, since the founding 
of Saint Augustine, Florida in 1565.[23][24][25][26] Today, 90% of all 
Hispanic and Latinos speak English, and at least 89% speak fluent Spanish.[159] 
Additionally, 2.8 million non-Hispanic Americans also speak Spanish at 
home.[160] With 40% of Hispanic and Latino Americans being immigrants,[161] 
and with many of the 60% who are U.S.-born being the children or grandchildren 
of immigrants, bilingualism is the norm in the community at large. At home, 
at least 69% of all Hispanics over the age of five are bilingual in English 
and Spanish, whereas up to 22% are monolingual English-speakers, and 9% 
are monolingual Spanish speakers. Another 0.4% speak a language other than 
English and Spanish at home.[159] The Spanish dialects spoken in the United 
States differ depending on the country of origin of the person or the person's 
family heritage. Generally, however, Spanish spoken in the Southwest is 
Mexican Spanish (or Chicano Spanish). An old, colonial variety of Spanish 
is spoken by descendants of the early Spanish colonists in New Mexico and 
Colorado, which is New Mexican Spanish. One of the major distinctions of 
New Mexican Spanish is its heavy use of colonial vocabulary and verb tenses 
that make New Mexican Spanish uniquely American amongst Spanish dialects. 
The Spanish spoken in Florida and in the Northeast is Caribbean Spanish 
and is heavily influenced by the Spanish of Cuba and Puerto Rico. Canarian 
Spanish is the historic Spanish dialect spoken by the descendants of the 
earliest Spanish colonists beginning in the 18th century in Louisiana. 
Spanish spoken elsewhere throughout the country varies, although is generally 
Mexican Spanish.[160][162] Hispanics have influenced the way Americans 
speak with the introduction of many Spanish words into the English language. 
Amongst younger generations of Hispanics, Spanglish, or a mix of Spanish 
and English, may be a common way of speaking. Although they are fluent 
in both languages, speakers will switch between Spanish and English throughout 
the conversation. Spanglish is particularly common in Hispanic-majority 
cities and communities such as Miami, Hialeah, San Antonio, Los Angeles, 
and New York City.[163] Hispanics have also influenced the way English 
is spoken in the United States. In Miami, for example, the Miami dialect 
has evolved as the most common form of English spoken and heard in Miami 
today. This is a native dialect of English, and was developed amongst second 
and third generations of Cuban Americans in Miami. Today, it is commonly 
heard everywhere throughout the city. Gloria Estefan and Enrique Iglesias 
are examples of people who speak with the Miami dialect. Another major 
English dialect, is spoken by Chicanos and Tejanos in the Southwestern 
United States, called Chicano English. George Lopez and Selena are examples 
of speakers of Chicano English.[164] An English dialect spoken by Puerto 
Ricans and other Hispanic groups is called New York Latino English. The 
most methodologically rigorous study of Hispanic or Latino religious affiliation 
to date was the Hispanic Churches in American Public Life (HCAPL) National 
Survey, conducted between August and October 2000. This survey found that 
70% of all Hispanic and Latino Americans are Catholic, 20% are Protestant, 
3% are "alternative Christians" (such as Mormon or Jehovah's Witnesses), 
1% identify with a non-Christian religion (including Muslims, Jewish, Buddhist...[165]), 
and 6% have no religious preference (with only 0.37% claiming to be atheist 
or agnostic). This suggests that Hispanics/Latinos are not only a highly 
religious, but also a highly Christian constituency. It also suggests that 
Hispanic/Latino Protestants are a more sizable minority than sometimes 
realized. Catholic affiliation is much higher among first-generation than 
second- or third-generation Hispanic or Latino immigrants, who exhibit 
a fairly high rate of defection to Protestantism.[166] Also Hispanics and 
Latinos in the Bible Belt, which is mostly located in the South, are more 
likely to shift to Protestantism than those in other regions, as it is 
all around them. Protestant denominations that have attracted Hispanic/Latino 
converts are Pentecostalism,[167][168] Southern Baptist,[169] and the Episcopal 
Church.[170][171] According to Andrew Greeley, as many as 600,000 American 
Latinos leave Catholicism for Protestant churches every year.[172] Hispanic 
or Latino Catholics are developing youth and social programs to retain 
members, as well as the spread of the Catholic Charismatic Renewal.[173] 
The United States is home to thousands of Spanish-language media outlets, 
which range in size from giant commercial and some non-commercial broadcasting 
networks and major magazines with circulations numbering in the millions, 
to low-power AM radio stations with listeners numbering in the hundreds. 
There are hundreds of Internet media outlets targeting U.S. Hispanic consumers. 
Some of the outlets are online versions of their printed counterparts and 
some online exclusively. Among the most notable Hispanic/Latino-oriented 
media outlets are: Latino food, particularly Mexican has influenced American 
cuisine and eating habits. Mexican cuisine has become mainstream in American 
culture that many no longer see it as an ethnic food. Across the US, making 
tortillas and salsa more common as fast food than hamburger buns and ketchup. 
Tortilla chips have surpassed potato chips in annual sales, and plantain 
chips popular in Caribbean cuisines, have continued to increase sales.[175] 
Tropical fruit, such as mango, guava, and passion fruit (maracuyá), have 
become more popular and are now common flavors in desserts, candies, and 
food dishes in the US. Due to the large Mexican-American population in 
the Southwestern United States, and its proximity to Mexico, Mexican food 
there is believed to be some of the best in the US. Cubans brought Cuban 
cuisine to Miami, and today, cortaditos, pastelitos de guayaba, and empanadas 
are common mid-day snacks in the city. Cuban culture has changed Miami's 
coffee drinking habits, and today a café con leche or a cortadito is commonly 
had, often with a pastelito (pastry), at one of the city's numerous coffee 
shops.[176] The Cuban sandwich developed in Miami, and is now a staple 
and icon of the city's cuisine and culture.[177] Hispanic and Latino culture 
places a strong value on family, and is commonly taught to Hispanic children 
as one of the most important values in life. Statistically, Hispanic families 
tend to have larger and closer knit families than the American average. 
Hispanic families tend to prefer to live near other family members. This 
may mean that three or sometimes four generations may be living in the 
same household or near each other, although four generations is uncommon 
in the US. The role of grandparents is believed to be very important in 
the upbringing of children.[178] Hispanics tend to be very group-oriented, 
and an emphasis is placed on the well-being of the family above the individual. 
The extended family plays an important part of many Hispanic families, 
and frequent social, family gatherings are common. Traditional rights of 
passages, particularly Roman Catholic sacraments: such as baptisms, birthdays, 
First Holy Communions, quinceañeras, Confirmations, graduations, and weddings 
are all popular moments of family gatherings and celebrations in Hispanic 
families.[179][180] Education is another important priority for Hispanic 
families. Education is seen as the key towards continued upward mobility 
in the US among Hispanic families. A 2010 study by the Associated Press 
showed that Hispanics place a higher emphasis on education than the average 
American. Hispanics expect their children to graduate university.[181][182] 
Latin American youth today stay at home with their parents longer than 
before. This is due to more years spent studying and the difficulty of 
finding a paid job that meets their aspirations.[183] Hispanic Americans, 
like immigrant groups before them, are out-marrying at high rates. Out-marriages 
comprised 17.4% of all existing Hispanic marriages in 2008.[184] The rate 
was higher for newlyweds (which excludes immigrants who are already married): 
Among all newlyweds in 2010, 25.7% of all Hispanics married a non-Hispanic 
(this compares to out-marriage rates of 9.4% of whites, 17.1% of blacks, 
and 27.7% of Asians). The rate was larger for native-born Hispanics, with 
36.2% of native-born Hispanics (both men and women) out-marrying compared 
to 14.2% of foreign-born Hispanics.[185] The difference is attributed to 
recent immigrants tending to marry within their immediate immigrant community 
due to commonality of language, proximity, familial connections, and familiarity.[184] 
In 2008, 81% of Hispanics who married out married non-Hispanic Whites, 
9% married non-Hispanic Blacks, 5% non-Hispanic Asians, and the remainder 
married non-Hispanic, multi-racial partners.[184] Of the 275,500 new intermarried 
pairings in 2010, 43.3% were White-Hispanic (compared to White-Asian at 
14.4%, White-Black at 11.9%, and Other Combinations at 30.4%; other combinations 
consists of pairings between different minority groups, multi-racial people, 
and American Indians).[185] Unlike those for marriage to Blacks and Asians, 
intermarriage rates of Hispanics to Whites do not vary by gender. The combined 
median earnings of White/Hispanic couples are lower than those of White/White 
couples but higher than those of Hispanic/Hispanic couples. 23% of Hispanic 
men who married White women have a college degree compared to only 10% 
of Hispanic men who married a Hispanic woman. 33% of Hispanic women who 
married a White husband are college-educated compared to 13% of Hispanic 
women who married a Hispanic man.[185] Attitudes among non-Hispanics toward 
intermarriage with Hispanics are mostly favorable, with 81% of Whites, 
76% of Asians, and 73% of Blacks "being fine" with a member of their family 
marrying a Hispanic and an additional 13% of Whites, 19% of Asians, and 
16% of Blacks "being bothered but accepting of the marriage." Only 2% of 
Whites, 4% of Asians, and 5% of Blacks would not accept a marriage of their 
family member to a Hispanic.[184] Hispanic attitudes toward intermarriage 
with non-Hispanics are likewise favorable, with 71% "being fine" with marriages 
to Whites and 81% "being fine" with marriages to Blacks. A further 22% 
admitted to "being bothered but accepting" of a marriage of a family member 
to a White and 16% admitted to "being bothered but accepting" of a marriage 
of a family member to a Black. Only 3% of Hispanics objected outright marriage 
of a family member to a non-Hispanic Black and 3% to a non-Hispanic White.[184] 
Unlike intermarriage with other racial groups, intermarriage with non-Hispanic 
Blacks varies by nationality of origin. Puerto Ricans and Dominicans have 
by far the highest rates of intermarriage with blacks, of all major Hispanic 
national groups.[181][186][187][188][189][190][191][192][193][194] Cubans 
have the highest rate of intermarriage with non-Hispanic Whites, of all 
major Hispanic national groups, and are the most assimilated into White 
American culture.[195][196] Mexican Americans, who are the majority of 
the US Hispanic population, are most likely to intermarry with Whites and 
Asians when marrying out.[197][198][199] Hispanics and Latinos differ on 
their political views depending on their location and backgroun. The majority 
(57%)[200] either identify as or support the Democrats, and 23% identify 
as Republicans.[200] This 34-point gap as of December 2007 was an increase 
from the gap of 21 points 16 months earlier. Cuban Americans and Colombian 
Americans tend to favor conservative political ideologies and support the 
Republicans. Mexican Americans, Puerto Ricans, and Dominican Americans 
tend to favor liberal views and support the Democrats. However, because 
the latter groups are far more numerous—as, again, Mexican Americans alone 
are 64% of Hispanics and Latinos—the Democratic Party is considered to 
be in a far stronger position with the ethnic group overall. The presidency 
of George W. Bush had a significant influence on the political leanings 
of Hispanics and Latinos, as he attracted new supporters. As a former Governor 
of Texas, Bush regarded this growing community as a potential source of 
growth for the conservative movement and the Republican Party.[citation 
needed] He made some gains for the Republicans among the group. In the 
1996 presidential election, 72% of Hispanics and Latinos backed President 
Bill Clinton. In 2000 the Democratic total fell to 62%, and went down again 
in 2004, with Democrat John Kerry winning Hispanics 58–40 against Bush.[201] 
Hispanics in the West, especially in California, were much stronger for 
the Democratic Party than in Texas and Florida. California Latinos voted 
63–32 for Kerry in 2004, and both Arizona and New Mexico Latinos by a smaller 
56–43 margin. Texas Latinos were split nearly evenly, favoring Kerry 50–49 
over their favorite son candidate, and Florida Latinos (who are mostly 
Cuban American) backed Bush, by a 54–45 margin. In the 2006 midterm election, 
however, due to the unpopularity of the Iraq War, the heated debate concerning 
illegal Hispanic immigration, and Republican-related Congressional scandals, 
Hispanics and Latinos went as strongly Democratic as they have since the 
Clinton years. Exit polls showed the group voting for Democrats by a lopsided 
69–30 margin, with Florida Latinos for the first time split evenly. The 
runoff election in Texas' 23rd congressional district was seen as a bellwether 
of Latino politics. Democrat Ciro Rodriguez's unexpected (and unexpectedly 
decisive) defeat of Republican incumbent Henry Bonilla was seen as proof 
of a leftward lurch among Latino voters; majority-Latino counties overwhelmingly 
backed Rodriguez, and majority European-American counties overwhelmingly 
backed Bonilla. In the 2008 Presidential election's Democratic primary 
Hispanics and Latinos participated in larger numbers than before, with 
Hillary Clinton receiving most of the group's support.[203] Pundits discussed 
whether a large percentage of Hispanics and Latinos would vote for an African-American 
candidate, in this case Barack Obama, Clinton's opponent.[204] Hispanics/Latinos 
voted 2 to 1 for Mrs. Clinton, even among the younger demographic. In other 
groups, younger voters went overwhelmingly for Obama.[205] Among Hispanics, 
28% said race was involved in their decision, as opposed to 13% for (non-Hispanic) 
whites.[205] Obama defeated Clinton. In the matchup between Obama and Republican 
candidate John McCain for the presidency, Hispanics and Latinos supported 
Obama with 59% to McCain's 29% in the Gallup tracking poll as of June 30, 
2008.[206] This surprised some analysts, since a higher than expected percentage 
of Latinos and Hispanics favored Obama over McCain, who had been a leader 
of the comprehensive immigration reform effort.[207] However, McCain had 
retreated during the Republican primary, saying that he would not support 
the bill if it came up again. Some analysts believed that this shift damaged 
his standing among Hispanics and Latinos.[208] Obama took advantage of 
the situation by running ads in Spanish to appeal to this ethnic group, 
in which he mentioned McCain's about-face.[209] In the general election, 
67% of Hispanics and Latinos voted for Obama[210] and 31% voted for McCain,[211] 
with a relatively stronger turnout than in previous elections in states 
such as Colorado, New Mexico, Nevada, and Virginia, helping Obama carry 
those formerly Republican states. Obama won 70% of non-Cuban Hispanics 
and 35% of the traditionally Republican Cuban Americans who have a strong 
presence in Florida. The changing state demographics, in which the non-Cuban 
Hispanic community is increasing in number, also contributed to his carrying 
Florida's Latinos with 57% of the vote.[210][212] Hispanics and Latinos 
also offset Republican gains in traditional red states; for example, Obama 
carried 63% of Texas Latinos, when the overall vote of the state was for 
McCain by 55%.[213] Although during 2008 the economy and employment were 
top concerns for Hispanics and Latinos, immigration was "never far from 
their minds": almost 90% of Latino voters rated immigration as "somewhat 
important" or "very important" in a poll taken after the election.[214] 
There is "abundant evidence" that the heated Republican opposition to the 
Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2007 has done significant damage 
to the party's appeal to Hispanics and Latinos in the years to come, especially 
in the swing states such as Florida, Nevada, and New Mexico.[214] In a 
Gallup poll of 4,604 registered Hispanic voters taken in the final days 
of June 2008, only 18% of participants identified as Republicans.[206] 
Some political organizations associated with Hispanic and Latino Americans 
are League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC), the National Council 
of La Raza (NCLR), the United Farm Workers, the Cuban American National 
Foundation, and the National Institute for Latino Policy. Hispanic and 
Latinos voted even more heavily for Democrats in the 2012 election with 
the Democratic incumbent Barack Obama receiving 71% and the Republican 
challenger Mitt Romney receiving about 27% of the vote.[215][216] Unite 
States has a population of 50 million of Hispanic and Latino Americans, 
of them, 27 Million are citizens eligible to vote (13% of total eligible 
voters), therefore Hispanics have a very important effect on presidential 
elections since the vote difference between two main parties is usually 
around 4 %[217][218][219][220] Hispanophobia has existed in various degrees 
throughout U.S. history, based largely on ethnicity, race, culture, Anti-Catholicism, 
economic and social conditions in Latin America, and use of the Spanish 
language.[221][222][223][224] In 2006, Time Magazine reported that the 
number of hate groups in the United States increased by 33 percent since 
2000, primarily due to anti-illegal immigrant and anti-Mexican sentiment.[225] 
According to Federal Bureau of Investigation statistics, the number of 
anti-Latino hate crimes increased by 35 percent since 2003 (albeit from 
a low level). In California, the state with the largest Latino population, 
the number of hate crimes against Latinos almost doubled.[226] For the 
year 2009, the FBI reported that 483 of the 6,604 hate crimes committed 
in the United States were anti-Hispanic comprising 7.3% of all hate crimes. 
This compares to 34.6% of hate crimes being anti-Black, 17.9% being anti-Homosexual, 
14.1% being anti-Jewish, and 8.3% being anti-White.[227] As a result of 
the rapid growth of the Hispanic population, there has been some tension 
with other minority populations,[228] especially the African American population, 
as Hispanics have increasingly moved into once exclusively Black areas.[229][230][231][232][233][234][235][236][237][238][239][240] 
There has also been increasing cooperation between minority groups to work 
together to attain political influence.[241][242][243][244][245] Places 
of settlement in United States: Diaspora: Individuals: Other Hispanic and 
