The term Hispanic (Spanish: hispano or hispánico, Galician: hispánico, 
Asturian: hispanu, Basque: hispaniar, Catalan: hispà,[1][2] hispàno[3]) 
broadly refers to the people, nations, and cultures that have a historical 
link to Spain. It commonly applies to countries once colonized by the Spanish 
Empire in the Americas (Spanish colonization of the Americas), and Asia 
particularly the countries of Latin America and the Philippines. It could 
be argued that the term should apply to all Spanish-speaking cultures or 
countries, as the historical roots of the word specifically pertain to 
the Iberian region. It is difficult to label a nation or culture with one 
term, such as Hispanic, as the ethnicities, customs, traditions, and art 
forms (music, literature, dress, architecture, cuisine, and others) vary 
greatly by country and region. The Spanish language and Spanish culture 
are the main traditions.[4][5] Hispanic originally referred to the people 
of ancient Roman Hispania, which roughly comprised the Iberian Peninsula 
including the contemporary states of Spain, Portugal, Andorra, and the 
British Overseas Territory of Gibraltar.[6][7][8] The term Hispanic derives 
from Latin Hispanicus ('Spanish'), the adjectival derivation of Latin (and 
Greek) Hispania ('Spain') and Hispanus/Hispanos ('Spaniard'), ultimately 
probably of Celtiberian origin.[9] In English the word is attested from 
the 16th century (and in the late 19th century in American English).[10] 
The words Spain, Spanish, and Spaniard are of the same etymology as Hispanus, 
ultimately.[9] Hispanus was the Latin name given to a person from Hispania 
during Roman rule. In English, the term Hispano-Roman is sometimes used.[12] 
The Hispano-Romans were composed of people from many different tribes.[13] 
Some famous Hispani (plural of Hispanus) were Marcus Annaeus Lucanus, Martial, 
Prudentius, Theodosius I, and Magnus Maximus and Maximus of Hispania. Here 
follows a comparison of several terms related to Hispanic: Hispania was 
the Roman name for the whole territory of the Iberian Peninsula. Initially, 
this territory was divided into two provinces: Hispania Citerior and Hispania 
Ulterior. In 27 B.C, Hispania Ulterior was divided into two new provinces, 
Hispania Baetica and Hispania Lusitania, while Hispania Citerior was renamed 
Hispania Tarraconensis. This division of Hispania explains the usage of 
the singular and plural forms (Spain, and The Spains) used to refer to 
the peninsula and its kingdoms in the Middle Ages.[18] Before the marriage 
of Queen Isabella I of Castile and King Ferdinand II of Aragon in 1469, 
the four Christian kingdoms of the Iberian Peninsula—the Kingdom of Portugal, 
the Crown of Aragon, the Crown of Castile, and the Kingdom of Navarre—were 
collectively called The Spains. This revival of the old Roman concept in 
the Middle Ages appears to have originated in Provençal, and was first 
documented at the end of the 11th century. In the Council of Constance, 
the four kingdoms shared one vote. The word Lusitanian, relates to Lusitania 
or Portugal, also in reference to the Lusitanians, possibly one of the 
first Indo-European tribes to settle in Europe. From this tribe's name 
had derived the name of the Roman province of Lusitania, and Lusitania 
remains the name of Portugal in Latin. The terms Spain and the Spains were 
not interchangeable.[19] Spain was a geographic territory, home to several 
kingdoms (Christian and Muslim), with separate governments, laws, languages, 
religions, and customs, and was the historical remnant of the Hispano-Gothic 
unity.[20] Spain was not a political entity until much later, and when 
referring to the Middle Ages, one should not be confounded with the nation-state 
of today.[21] The term The Spains referred specifically to a collective 
of juridico-political units, first the Christian kingdoms, and then the 
different kingdoms ruled by the same king. With the Decretos de Nueva Planta, 
Philip V started to organize the fusion of his kingdoms that until then 
were ruled as distinct and independent, but this unification process lacked 
a formal and juridic proclamation.[22][23] Although colloquially and literally 
the expression "King of Spain" or "King of the Spains" was already widespread,[24] 
it did not refer to a unified nation-state. It was only in the constitution 
of 1812 that was adopted the name Españas (Spains) for the Spanish nation 
and the use of the title of "king of the Spains".[25] The constitution 
of 1876 adopts for the first time the name "Spain" for the Spanish nation 
and from then on the kings would use the title of "king of Spain".[26] 
The expansion of the Spanish Empire between 1492 and 1898 brought thousands 
of Spanish migrants to the conquered lands, who established settlements, 
mainly in the Americas, but also in other distant parts of the world (as 
in the Philippines, the lone Spanish territory in Asia), producing a number 
of multiracial populations. Today, the term Hispanic is typically applied 
to the varied populations of these places, including those with Spanish 
ancestry. The Filipinos however can be considered hispanics because of 
the culture and language that Spanish left behind. Along with English and 
Tagalog, Spanish used to be one of the official languages in the Philippines 
before being removed in 1973 by the Cory Aquino government. The Latin gentile 
adjectives that belong to Hispania are Hispanus, Hispanicus, and Hispanienses. 
A Hispanus is someone who is a native of Hispania with no foreign parents, 
while children born in Hispania of (Latin) Roman parents were Hispaniensis. 
Hispaniensis means 'connected in some way to Hispania', as in "Exercitus 
Hispaniensis" ('the Spanish army') or "mercatores Hispanienses" ('Spanish 
merchants'). Hispanicus implies 'of' or 'belonging to' Hispania or the 
Hispanus or of their fashion as in "glaudius Hispanicus".[27] The gentile 
adjectives were not ethnolinguistic but derived primarily on a geographic 
basis, from the toponym Hispania as the people of Hispania spoke different 
languages, although Livy said they could all understand each other, not 
making clear if they spoke dialects of the same language or were polyglots.[28] 
The first recorded use of an anthroponym derived from the toponym Hispania 
is attested in one of the five fragments, of Ennius in 236 B.C. who wrote 
"Hispane, non Romane memoretis loqui me" ("Remember that I speak like a 
Spaniard not a Roman") as having been said by a native of Hispania.[29][30] 
The term Hispanic signifies the cultural resonance, among other elements 
and characteristics, of the descendants of the people who inhabited ancient 
Hispania (Iberian Peninsula). It has been used throughout history for many 
purposes, including drawing a contrast to the Moors and differentiating 
explorers and settlers. Technically speaking, persons from Portugal or 
of Portuguese extraction are referred to as Lusitanians. In Portugal, Hispanic 
refers to something related to ancient Hispania, Spain or the Spanish language 
and culture, not Portugal.[31] Portugal and Spain do not have exactly the 
same definition for the term Hispanic, but they do share the etymology 
for the word (pt: hispânico, es: hispánico). The Royal Spanish Academy 
(Spanish: Real Academia Española, RAE), the official royal institution 
responsible for regulating the Spanish language defines the terms "Hispano" 
and "Hispánico" (which in Spain have slightly different meanings) as:[32][33] 
Hispano: Hispánico: Note that both terms include Portugal as part of "Hispania" 
as Hispania is the old Roman name given to the entire Iberian peninsula 
and their peoples, including the Lusitanians. The common modern term to 
identify Portuguese and Spanish cultures under a single nomenclature is 
"Iberian", and the one to refer to cultures derived from both countries 
in the Americas is "Iberian-American". These designations can be mutually 
recognized by people in Portugal and Brazil, unlike "Hispanic", which is 
totally void of any self-identification in those countries, and quite on 
the opposite, serves the purpose of marking a clear distinction in relation 
to neighboring countries´ culture. In Spanish, the term "hispano" as in 
"hispanoamericano", refers to the people of Spanish origin who live in 
the Americas; it also refers to a relationship to Hispania or to the Spanish 
language. There are people in Hispanic America that are not of Spanish 
origin, as the original people of these areas are Amerindians. The term 
"Hispanic" was first used in the United States to define the growing number 
of the American population with Spanish ancestry. The term does not include 
immigrants from Spanish speaking countries however. Today, organizations 
in the United States use the term as a broad catchall to refer to persons 
with a historical and cultural relationship with Spain, regardless of race 
and ethnicity.[4][5] The U.S. Census Bureau defines the ethnonym Hispanic 
or Latino to refer to "a person of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, South 
or Central American, or other Spanish culture or origin regardless of race"[34] 
and states that Hispanics or Latinos can be of any race, any ancestry, 
any ethnicity.[35] Generically, this limits the definition of Hispanic 
or Latino to people from the Caribbean, Central and South America, or other 
Hispanic (Spanish or Portuguese) culture or origin, regardless of race. 
Latino can refer to males or females, while Latina refers to only females. 
Because of the technical distinctions involved in defining "race" vs. "ethnicity," 
there is confusion among the general population about the designation of 
Hispanic identity. Currently, the United States Census Bureau defines six 
race categories:[36] According to census reports, of the above races the 
largest number of Hispanic or Latinos are of the White race, the second 
largest number come from the Native American/American Indian race who are 
the indigenous people of the Americas. The inhabitants of Easter Island 
are Pacific Islanders and since the island belongs to Chile they are theoretically 
Hispanic or Latinos. Because Hispanic roots are considered aligned with 
a European ancestry (Spain/Portugal), Hispanic/Latino ancestry is defined 
solely as an ethnic designation (similar to being Norse or Germanic). Therefore, 
a person of Hispanic descent is typically defined using both race and ethnicity 
as an identifier—i.e., Black-Hispanic, White-Hispanic, Asian-Hispanic, 
Amerindian-Hispanic or "other race" Hispanic. Officially, however, the 
U.S. Government has defined Hispanic or Latino persons as being "persons 
who trace their origin or descent to Mexico, Puerto Rico, Cuba, Central 
and South America, and other Spanish cultures". This includes Spain and 
Portugal which is the origin of Hispanic/Iberian culture.[37] The United 
States Census uses the ethnonym Hispanic or Latino to refer to "a person 
of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, South or Central American, or other Hispanic 
culture or origin regardless of race."[34] The U.S. Office of Management 
and Budget currently defines "Hispanic or Latino" as "a person of Mexican, 
Puerto Rican, Cuban, South or Central American, or other Spanish culture 
or origin, regardless of race".[37] The 2010 Census asked if the person 
was "Spanish/Hispanic/Latino". The United States Census uses the ethnonym 
Hispanic or Latino to refer to "a person of Cuban, Mexican, Puerto Rican, 
South or Central American, or other Spanish culture or origin regardless 
of race."[34] The Census Bureau also explains that "[o]rigin can be viewed 
as the heritage, nationality group, lineage, or country of birth of the 
person or the person's ancestors before their arrival in the United States. 
People who identify their origin as Hispanic, Latino, or Spanish may be 
of any race."[38] The U.S. Department of Transportation defines Hispanic 
as, "persons of Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, Dominican, Central or South 
American, or other Spanish or Portuguese culture or origin, regardless 
of race."[4] This definition has been adopted by the Small Business Administration 
as well as by many federal, state, and municipal agencies for the purposes 
of awarding government contracts to minority owned businesses.[5] The Congressional 
Hispanic Caucus and the Congressional Hispanic Conference include representatives 
of Spanish and Portuguese, Puerto Rican and Mexican descent. The Hispanic 
Society of America is dedicated to the study of the arts and cultures of 
Spain, Portugal, and Latin America.[39] The Hispanic Association of Colleges 
and Universities, proclaimed champions of Hispanic success in higher education, 
is committed to Hispanic educational success in the U.S., Puerto Rico, 
Ibero-America, Spain and Portugal. The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission encourages any individual who believes that he or she is Hispanic 
to self-identify as Hispanic.[40] The United States Department of Labor 
- Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs encourages the same self-identification. 
As a result, any individual who traces his or her origins to part of the 
Spanish Empire or Portuguese Empire may self-identify as Hispanic, because 
an employer may not override an individual's self-identification.[41] The 
1970 Census was the first time that a "Hispanic" identifier was used and 
data collected with the question. The definition of "Hispanic" has been 
modified in each successive census.[42] In a recent study, most Spanish-speakers 
of Spanish or Hispanic American descent do not prefer the term "Hispanic" 
or "Latino" when it comes to describing their identity. Instead, they prefer 
to be identified by their country of origin. When asked if they have a 
preference for either being identified as "Hispanic" or "Latino," the Pew 
study finds that "half (51%) say they have no preference for either term."[43] 
A majority (51%) say they most often identify themselves by their family’s 
country of origin, while 24% say they prefer a pan-ethnic label such as 
Hispanic or Latino. Among those 24% who have a preference for a pan-ethnic 
label, "'Hispanic' is preferred over 'Latino' by more than a two-to-one 
margin—33% versus 14%." Twenty-one percent prefer to be referred to simply 
as "Americans."[44] Hispanicization is the process by which a place or 
a person absorbs characteristics of Hispanic society and culture.[45][46][47] 
Modern hispanization of a place, namely in the United States, might be 
illustrated by Spanish-language media and businesses. Hispanization of 
a person might be illustrated by speaking Spanish, making and eating Hispanic 
American food, listening to Spanish language music or participating in 
Hispanic festivals and holidays - Hispanization of those outside the Hispanic 
community as opposed to assimilation of Hispanics into theirs. One reason 
that some people believe the assimilation of Hispanics in the U.S. is not 
comparable to that of other cultural groups is that Hispanic and Latino 
Americans have been living in parts of North America for centuries, in 
many cases well before the English-speaking culture became dominant. For 
example, California, Texas, Colorado, New Mexico (1598), Arizona, Nevada, 
Florida and Puerto Rico have been home to Spanish-speaking peoples since 
the 16th century, long before the U.S. existed. (But it should be noted 
that the language of the Native Americans existed before this, until the 
invasion and forced assimilation by the Spanish.) These and other Spanish-speaking 
territories were part of the Viceroyalty of New Spain, and later Mexico 
(with the exception of Florida and Puerto Rico), before these regions joined 
or were taken over by the United States in 1848. Some cities in the U.S. 
were founded by Spanish settlers as early as the 16th century, prior to 
the creation of the Thirteen Colonies. For example, San Miguel de Gualdape, 
Pensacola and St. Augustine, Florida were founded in 1526, 1559 and 1565 
respectively. Santa Fe, New Mexico was founded in 1604, and Albuquerque 
was established in 1660. El Paso was founded in 1659, San Antonio in 1691, 
Laredo, Texas in 1755, San Diego in 1769, San Francisco in 1776, San Jose, 
California in 1777, New Iberia, Louisiana in 1779, and Los Angeles in 1781. 
Therefore, in many parts of the U.S., the Hispanic cultural legacy predates 
English/British influence. For this reason, many generations have largely 
maintained their cultural traditions and Spanish language well before the 
United States was created. However, Spanish-speaking persons in many Hispanic 
areas in the U.S. amounted to only a few thousand people when they became 
part of the United States; a large majority of current Hispanic residents 
are descended from Hispanics who entered the United States in the mid-to-late 
20th and early 21st centuries. Language retention is a common index to 
assimilation; according to the 2000 census, about 75 percent of all Hispanics 
spoke Spanish in the home. Spanish language retention rates vary geographically; 
parts of Texas and New Mexico have language retention rates over 90 percent, 
whereas in parts of Colorado and California, retention rates are lower 
than 30 percent. The degree of retention of Spanish as the native language 
is based on recent arrival from countries where Spanish is spoken. As is 
true of other immigrants, those who were born in other countries still 
speak their native language. Later generations are increasingly less likely 
to speak the language spoken in the country of their ancestors, as is true 
of other immigrant groups. Today, Spanish is among the most commonly spoken 
first languages of the world. During the period of the Spanish Empire from 
1492 and 1898, many people migrated from Spain to the conquered lands. 
The Spaniards brought with them the Castilian language and culture, and 
in this process that lasted several centuries, created a global empire 
with a diverse population. This diverse population was created due to the 
transatlantic slave trade and the forced labor of indigenous Americans. 
Furthermore, the Spanish implemented an "Encomienda" system which encouraged 
indigenous women to marry Spaniards, as their offspring would then be free 
of the oppressive encomienda regulations. In order to control the diversifying 
population, the leadership of the Spanish speaking colonies created a caste 
system based on the ethnicity of a child's parents. Culturally, Spaniards 
(those living in Spain) are typically European, but they also have small 
traces of many peoples from the rest of Europe, the Near East and the Mediterranean 
areas of northern Africa.[48][49] (Note: The U.S. is a predominantly English-speaking 
country. As is true of many immigrant families, the immigrants often speak 
Spanish and some English, while their children are fluent English speakers 
because they were born and educated in the U.S. Some retain their Spanish 
language as is true of other immigrant families. The recent influx of large 
numbers of immigrants from Spanish-speaking countries into the U.S. has 
meant that the number of Spanish-speaking U.S. residents has increased, 
but the children speaking English as is true of the historic U.S. immigrant 
experience, continues. Migration from Hispanic countries has increased 
the Spanish-speaking population in the United States. Of those who speak 
Spanish in the United States, three quarters speak English well or very 
well. (Note: a separate listing for Hispanics is not included because the 
U.S. Census Bureau considers Hispanic to mean a person of Hispanic American 
descent (including persons of Cuban, Mexican, or Puerto Rican origin) and 
of Spanish descent living in the U.S. who may be of any race or ethnic 
group (white, black, Asian, etc.); about 15–16% of the total U.S. population 
is Hispanic, not including estimates about alien residents). The Miguel 
de Cervantes Prize is awarded to Hispanic writers, whereas the Latin Grammy 
Award recognizes Hispanic and Portuguese musicians, and the Platino Awards 
as given to outstanding Hispanic films. Folk and popular dance and music 
also varies greatly among Hispanics. For instance, the music from Spain 
is a lot different from the Hispanic American, although there is a high 
grade of exchange between both continents. In addition, due to the high 
national development of the diverse nationalities and regions of Spain, 
there is a lot of music in the different languages of the Peninsula (Catalan, 
Galician and Basque, mainly). See, for instance, Music of Catalonia or 
Rock català, Music of Galicia, Cantabria and Asturias, and Basque music. 
Flamenco is also a very popular music style in Spain, especially in Andalusia. 
Spanish ballads "romances" can be traced in Mexico as "corridos" or in 
Argentina as "milongas", same structure but different scenarios. On the 
other side of the ocean, Hispanic America is also home to a wide variety 
of music, even though "Latin" music is often erroneously thought of, as 
a single genre. Hispanic Caribbean music tends to favor complex polyrhythms 
of African origin. Mexican music shows combined influences of mostly Spanish 
and Native American origin, while traditional Northern Mexican music — 
norteño and banda — is more influenced by country-and-western music and 
the polka, brought by Central European settlers to Mexico. The music of 
Hispanic Americans — such as tejano music — has influences in rock, jazz, 
R&B, pop, and country music as well as traditional Mexican music such as 
Mariachi. Meanwhile, native Andean sounds and melodies are the backbone 
of Peruvian and Bolivian music, but also play a significant role in the 
popular music of most South American countries and are heavily incorporated 
into the folk music of Ecuador and Chile and the tunes of Colombia, and 
again in Chile where they play a fundamental role in the form of the greatly 
followed nueva canción. In U.S. communities of immigrants from these countries 
it is common to hear these styles. Latin pop, Rock en Español, Latin hip-hop, 
Salsa, Merengue, colombian cumbia and Reggaeton styles tend to appeal to 
the broader Hispanic population, and varieties of Cuban music are popular 
with many Hispanics of all backgrounds. Spanish-language literature and 
folklore is very rich and is influenced by a variety of countries. There 
are thousands of writers from many places, and dating from the Middle Ages 
to the present. Some of the most recognized writers are Miguel de Cervantes 
Saavedra (Spain), Lope de Vega (Spain), Calderón de la Barca (Spain), Jose 
Rizal (Philippines), Carlos Fuentes (Mexico), Octavio Paz (Mexico), Miguel 
Ángel Asturias (Guatemala), George Santayana (US), José Martí (Cuba), Sabine 
Ulibarri (US), Federico García Lorca (Spain), Miguel de Unamuno (Spain), 
Gabriel García Márquez (Colombia), Rafael Pombo (Colombia), Horacio Quiroga 
(Uruguay), Rómulo Gallegos (Venezuela), Luis Rodriguez Varela (Philippines), 
Rubén Darío (Nicaragua), Mario Vargas Llosa (Peru), Giannina Braschi (Puerto 
Rico), Cristina Peri Rossi (Uruguay), Luisa Valenzuela (Argentina), Roberto 
Quesada (Honduras), Julio Cortázar (Argentina), Pablo Neruda (Chile), Gabriela 
Mistral (Chile), Jorge Luis Borges (Argentina), Pedro Henríquez Ureña (Dominican 
Republic), Ernesto Sabato (Argentina), Juan Tomás Ávila Laurel (Equatorial 
Guinea), Ciro Alegría (Peru), Joaquin Garcia Monge (Costa Rica), and Jesus 
Balmori (Philippines). In the majority of the Hispanic countries, association 
football is the most popular sport. The men's national teams of Argentine, 
Uruguay and Spain have won the FIFA World Cup a total five times. The Spanish 
La Liga is one of the most popular in the world, known for FC Barcelona 
and Real Madrid. Meanwhile, the Argentine Primera División and Mexican 
Primera División are two of the strongest leagues in the Americas. However, 
baseball is the most popular sport in some Central American and Caribbean 
countries (especially Cuba, Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico and Venezuela), 
as well as in the diaspora in the United States. Notable Hispanic teams 
in early baseball are the All Cubans, Cuban Stars and New York Cubans. 
The Hispanic Heritage Baseball Museum recognizes Hispanic baseball personalities. 
Nearly 30 percent (22 percent foreign-born Latinos) of MLB players today 
have Hispanic heritage. Several Hispanic sportspeople have been successful 
worldwide, such as Diego Maradona, Alfredo di Stefano, Lionel Messi, Diego 
Forlán (association football), Juan Manuel Fangio, Juan Pablo Montoya, 
Eliseo Salazar, Fernando Alonso, Marc Gené, Carlos Sainz (auto racing), 
Ángel Nieto, Dani Pedrosa, Jorge Lorenzo, Marc Márquez, Marc Coma, Nani 
Roma (motorcycle racing), Emanuel Ginóbili, Pau Gasol, Marc Gasol (basketball), 
Julio César Chávez, Saúl Álvarez, Carlos Monzón (boxing), Miguel Indurain, 
Alberto Contador, Santiago Botero, Rigoberto Urán, Nairo Quintana (cycling), 
Roberto de Vicenzo, Ángel Cabrera, Sergio García, Severiano Ballesteros, 
José María Olazábal (golf), Luciana Aymar (field hockey), Rafael Nadal, 
Marcelo Ríos, Guillermo Vilas, Gabriela Sabatini, Juan Martín del Potro 
(tennis). Notable Hispanic sports television networks are ESPN Latin America, 
Fox Sports Latin America and TyC Sports. With regard to religious affiliation 
among Spanish-speakers, Christianity — specifically Roman Catholicism — 
is usually the first religious tradition that comes to mind[citation needed]. 
The Spaniards and the Portuguese took the Roman Catholic faith to Ibero-America 
and the Philippines, and Roman Catholicism remains the predominant religion 
amongst most Hispanics. A small but growing number of Hispanics belong 
to a Protestant denomination. There are also Spanish-speaking Jews, most 
of whom are the descendants of Ashkenazi Jews who migrated from Europe 
(German Jews, Russian Jews, Polish Jews, etc.) to Hispanic America, particularly 
Argentina, Uruguay, Peru and Cuba (Argentina is host to the third largest 
Jewish population in the Western Hemisphere, after the United States and 
Canada)[91][92] in the 19th century and following World War II. Many Spanish-speaking 
Jews also originate from the small communities of reconverted descendants 
of anusim — those whose Spanish Sephardi Jewish ancestors long ago hid 
their Jewish ancestry and beliefs in fear of persecution by the Spanish 
Inquisition in the Iberian Peninsula and Ibero-America. The Spanish Inquisition 
led to a large number of forced conversions of Spanish Jews. Genetic studies 
on the (male) Y-chromosome conducted by the University of Leeds in 2008 
appear to support the idea that the number of forced conversions have been 
previously underestimated significantly. They found that twenty percent 
of Spanish males have Y-chromosomes associated with Sephardic Jewish ancestry.[93] 
This may imply that there were more forced conversions than was previously 
thought. There are also thought to be many Catholic-professing descendants 
of marranos and Spanish-speaking crypto-Jews in the Southwestern United 
States and scattered through Hispanic America. Additionally, there are 
Sephardic Jews who are descendants of those Jews who fled Spain to Turkey, 
Syria, and North Africa, some of whom have now migrated to Hispanic America, 
holding on to some Spanish/Sephardic customs, such as the Ladino language, 
which mixes Spanish, Hebrew, Arabic and others, though written with Hebrew 
and Latin characters.[94] Though, it should be noted, that Ladinos were 
also African slaves captive in Spain held prior to the colonial period 
in the Americas. (See also History of the Jews in Hispanic America and 
List of Hispanic American Jews.) Among the Spanish-speaking Catholics, 
most communities celebrate their homeland's patron saint, dedicating a 
day for this purpose with festivals and religious services. Some Spanish-speakers 
syncretize Roman Catholicism and African or Native American rituals and 
beliefs. Such is the case of Santería, popular with Afro-Cubans, which 
combines old African beliefs in the form of Roman Catholic saints and rituals. 
Other syncretistic beliefs include Spiritism and Curanderismo. While a 
tiny minority, there are some Muslims in Latin America, in the US, and 
in the Philippines. Those in the Philippines live predominantly in the 
Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao province. In the United States, some 
65% of Hispanics and Latinos report themselves Catholic and 21% Protestant, 
with 13% having no affiliation.[95] A minority among the Roman Catholics, 
about one in five, are charismatics. Among the Protestant, 85% are "Born-again 
Christians" and belong to Evangelical or Pentecostal churches. Among the 
smallest groups, less than 4%, are Jewish. The Hispanic world, according 
to the United Nations World Heritage Committee, has contributed substantially 
more than any other ethnicity to the cultural heritage of the world. A 
World Heritage Cultural Site is a place such as a building, city, complex, 
or monument that is listed by the United Nations Educational, Scientific 
and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) as being of special cultural significance. 
Of a total of 802 Cultural World Heritage Sites recognized by the United 
Nations as of July 2015, 114 are located in Hispanic countries. Spain alone 
