A hit and run is a high risk, high reward offensive strategy used in baseball. 
It uses a stolen base attempt to try to place the defending infielders 
out of position for an attempted base hit. The hit and run was introduced 
to baseball by Ned Hanlon, who was often referred to as "The Father of 
Modern Baseball", at the beginning of the 1894 season of the National League, 
as part of what came to be called "inside baseball". Hanlon was manager 
of the Baltimore Orioles at the time. His team developed the hit and run 
along with other tactics during spring training at Macon, Georgia. After 
its implementation in the season's series opener against the New York Giants, 
the opposing manager objected to its use; however, it was deemed acceptable. 
[1] The hit and run relies on the positioning of the defensive players 
in the infield. The first and third basemen normally stand close to the 
lines, generally near their bases but slightly closer to home plate. The 
second baseman and shortstop stand on opposite sides of second base, covering 
the areas between first and second, and second and third, respectively. 
Second base itself is not directly covered, as the pitcher can field batted 
balls in this direction. In normal play, if the ball is hit into the infield, 
one of the players will run toward the ball while another runs toward the 
base that is no longer covered. For instance, if the ball is hit toward 
the second baseman, he will run toward the ball while the shortstop runs 
toward second base. This allows the fielding player to throw the ball to 
the player on the base to attempt a put out. However, during a stolen base 
attempt the normal gameplay and positioning is altered. In the typical 
case, a baserunner on first base will start running toward second, causing 
the infielders to move toward that base in order to tag the runner when 
the ball is thrown to them from the pitcher or catcher. This reaction places 
the infielders out of position for a hit ball, with gaps opening at midway 
points between first and second and second and third. The hit and run takes 
advantage of this difference by having the baserunner attempt to steal 
as soon as the pitch is thrown; the batter then attempts to hit the ball 
into one of the resulting gaps in the infield defense. The name "hit and 
run" is therefore a potential misnomer in that the chronological order 
of the offensive play is "run and hit," with the runner beginning the steal 
attempt before the batter makes contact, although in a logical sense it 
is accurate in that the batter's swing occurs while the runner's steal 
attempt is ongoing, such that any contact ("hit") will occur simultaneously 
with ("and") the steal attempt ("run"). Ideally, the ball will be hit into 
a gap and travel into the outfield, allowing the runners plenty of time 
to reach the bases. Even if the ball is hit toward a fielder's initial 
position before the fielder has had time to move away from it, however, 
the fielder may have turned to run toward the base in order to cover the 
baserunner. In normal play the fielders would face the batter, allowing 
them to react in any direction, but after they have turned toward the base 
this becomes much more difficult. Their momentum in this direction adds 
to this problem. The hit and run also has defensive qualities. In normal 
play the baserunner would start toward second base when the ball was hit. 
If the defensive players react fast enough, they may be able to throw the 
ball to second and first before either runner has reached their base, resulting 
in a double play. In the case of the hit and run, the baserunner has a 
head start, increasing the baserunner's probability of reaching second 
base before the ball. This may force the fielders to attempt the out only 
at first, thereby advancing the runner. It may also allow the runner to 
advance more bases on a hit than he might otherwise due to that running 
head start. Although a line drive can easily turn into a double play, line 
drives are rare so the risk of being doubled off from a line drive is minimal. 
The risk in the hit and run is that, if the batter fails to make contact 
with the ball, the runner is vulnerable to being thrown out at second base, 
which the official scorer will record as a caught stealing.[note 1] The 
defensive team can improve its odds in this case by using a pitchout, having 
the pitcher throw the ball far outside the strike zone so the catcher can 
easily catch it and attempt to pick off the runner. The batter may choose 
to take a swing at a bad pitch to make it harder for the catcher to handle 
the incoming pitch, or so the ball goes foul (in which case the runner 
is allowed to return to first, so the attempt protects the runner from 
being caught stealing). Either way, this can cause the batter to fall behind 
in the count, making it harder for him to get a hit. And if he does hit 
a bad pitch he really can't handle, it could result in poor contact leading 
directly to the batter being put out, so he may end up giving his at-bat 
away with no advantage to the offense. The hit and run has the best chance 
to be successful when the batter is someone who does not frequently swing 
and miss, at a time when the count won't disadvantage a hitter if he takes 
a bad swing, with a runner fast enough to take second base even if the 
batter does swing and miss. Often the precise circumstance to call for 
a hit and run occurs with a two-balls, one-strike count on a hitter, as 
this situation may meet all of the above criteria, depending on who is 
at bat and who is on base, but it can occur at other times. An alert defense 
understands the probability that the offense will call the play at a specific 
moment, and thus it may choose to call for a pitchout at that moment to 
defend it. An alert offense, in turn, understands the probability of a 
forthcoming pitchout, and use the hit and run opportunity as a decoy, causing 
the pitchout to become another ball in the count in the hitter's favor, 
increasing his chances of reaching base by walk or hit. The hit and run 
is a very old baseball strategy, dating back to the 19th-century game.[2] 
The terminology is confusing because the run starts before the hit. A variant 
of the hit and run is the run and hit, in which the runner takes off on 
a steal attempt of second and the batter has the option of whether or not 
