Albert Sayles "Hobe" Ferris, (December 7, 1877[citation needed] – March 
18, 1938), was a Major League second baseman during the 1900s. He holds 
the record for the lowest on-base percentage of any player in Major League 
Baseball history with over 5000 plate appearances, recording an OBP of 
just .265. Despite this, his career slugging percentage is actually higher 
than the league average of the period. Although he grew up in Providence, 
Rhode Island and was long thought to have been born there, census records 
indicate that he was born somewhere in England and immigrated to the United 
States with his parents in 1879. He was a shortstop in the minor leagues 
from 1898 to 1900, after which he was drafted by the Cincinnati Reds. He 
chose to jump to the newly formed American League instead, and signed with 
the Boston Americans. As the team had already signed a shortstop in Freddy 
Parent, Ferris moved to second base. He made his Major League debut on 
April 26, 1901. He committed 61 errors as a rookie for Boston in 1901. 
This did not lead the league — Kid Gleason of Detroit made 64 errors — 
but it remains to this day the second-highest total ever for a second baseman 
in the American League. He did hit .250 with 15 triples and 63 RBI, however. 
The following season, he cut his error total to 39 and began to acquire 
a reputation as a stellar fielder with outstanding range. He was also one 
of the league's feistiest players, being suspended in 1902 for an altercation 
with umpire Jack Sheridan. On September 11, 1906, he got into a nasty fight 
with teammate Jack Hayden, whom he accused of lackadaisical play. Ferris 
kicked Hayden in the face. Both were ejected from the game, and Ferris 
was suspended for the remainder of the season. This was the first time 
that teammates had been ejected for fighting each other. He was a member 
of the Boston side that won the inaugural 1903 World Series. Despite being 
a gifted defensive player, Ferris committed an error in the top of the 
first inning of the opening game of the series, fumbling a ball hit by 
Pittsburgh's Kitty Bransfield, and in doing so committed the first error 
in World Series history. He did, however, make amends by knocking in all 
of Boston's runs in the final game, which they won 3-0. Boston repeated 
as pennant winners in 1904, although no World Series was played that year. 
Ferris hit only .213 that season, and the team fell down the standings 
over the next years as its star players began to show their age. By 1906, 
Boston was in last place with a 49-105 record. Ferris was one of the team's 
few bright spots, playing excellent defense and ranking among American 
League leaders in extra base hits. Prior to the 1908 season Ferris was 
traded to the St. Louis Browns in order to clear space for Amby McConnell, 
who was highly rated at the time. While at St. Louis, Ferris converted 
to become a third baseman. His first season with the Browns was the most 
productive of his entire career: he set new highs in OBP, batting average, 
and RBI and hit in 26 straight games. However, this relatively successful 
season with the bat proved to be something of a blip — in 1909 his numbers 
plummeted as he recorded the worst season of his career. Following this 
poor season Ferris's contract was not renewed by the Browns. Following 
his departure from St. Louis, Ferris could not find a Major League club 
willing to offer him a contract. This led to him signing with the Minneapolis 
Millers of the American Association prior to the 1910 season. In his first 
season with the Millers, Ferris's performance with the bat improved slightly; 
however, the following year he exploded. In 1911 he hit 14 home runs and 
recorded an average of .303 as the Millers won their second consecutive 
pennant with a team that included Gavvy Cravath, Sam Leever and future 
Hall of Famer Rube Waddell. The Millers won a third consecutive pennant 
in 1912. Ferris's numbers, however, returned to their previous levels. 
Ferris retired after playing two more minor league seasons, with the St. 
Paul Saints and Wilkes-Barre Barons, respectively. His final game in the 
majors was October 1, 1909. Hobe Ferris moved to Detroit after his playing 
career, where he worked as a mechanic. He died there of a brain hemorrhage 
