Coordinates: 40°42′52.58″N 73°36′1.65″W﻿ / ﻿40.7146056°N 73.6004583°W﻿ 
/ 40.7146056; -73.6004583 Hofstra University is a private, non-profit,[6] 
nonsectarian university in the United States. Its main campus is located 
on Long Island in the village of Hempstead, New York, approximately 7 miles 
(11 km) east of New York City. Long Island's largest private college,[7] 
it originated in 1935 as an extension of New York University (NYU) under 
the name "Nassau College – Hofstra Memorial of New York University at Hempstead, 
Long Island";[8] in 1939, the institution separated from the NYU system 
and gained independence as Hofstra College,[9] and in 1963, it gained university 
status. Comprising 10 schools, including a School of Medicine and a School 
of Law, Hofstra is noted for a series of prominent Presidential conferences, 
as well as being selected to host United States Presidential Debates in 
2008, 2012, and 2016—the only school to do so in three consecutive campaign 
cycles.[10] The college—established as an extension of New York University 
(NYU)—was founded on the estate of a wealthy couple, a lumber entrepreneur 
of Dutch ancestry, William S. Hofstra (1861–1932) and his second wife, 
Kate Mason (1854–1933). The extension had been proposed by a Hempstead 
resident, Truesdel Peck Calkins, who had been superintendent of schools 
for Hempstead. In her will, Kate Mason provided the bulk of their property 
and estate to be used for a charitable, scientific or humanitarian purpose, 
to be named in honor of her husband. Two friends, Howard Brower and James 
Barnard, were asked to decide what to do with the estate. Another Hempstead 
resident, Truesdel Peck Calkins, remarked to Brower that he had been looking 
for a site to start an institution of higher education, and the three men 
agreed it would be an appropriate use of the estate. Calkins approached 
the administration at New York University, and they expressed interest. 
The college was founded as a coeducational, commuter institution with day 
and evening classes. The first day of classes was September 23, 1935, and 
the first class of students was made up of 159 day and 621 evening students. 
The tuition fee for the year was $375. The college obtained provisional 
charter status, and its official name was changed to Hofstra College on 
January 16, 1937. Hofstra College separated from New York University in 
1939 and was granted an absolute charter on February 16, 1940. Hofstra’s 
original logo was a seal created by Professor of Art Constant van de Wall 
in 1937. The insignia was derived from the official seal of the reigning 
house of the Netherlands, the House of Orange-Nassau. Used with the permission 
of the monarch of the Netherlands, the seal also included the Dutch national 
motto Je Maintiendrai, meaning “I stand steadfast” (literally “I shall 
maintain”) in French. In 1939, Hofstra celebrated its first four-year commencement, 
graduating a class of 83 students. The first graduates had strong feelings 
for the new institution. When they were allowed to choose whether they 
would receive degrees from New York University or Hofstra, they overwhelmingly 
chose Hofstra degrees. Academic recognition of Hofstra was affirmed when 
the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools accepted Hofstra 
for membership on November 22, 1940. Early in 1941 the college was elected 
to membership in the American Association of Colleges. In 1950 Calkins 
Gymnasium was the site of the first Shakespeare Festival. It was performed 
on a five-sixths-sized replica of the Globe Theatre. With the approval 
of the New York State Board of Regents, Hofstra became Long Island’s first 
private university on March 1, 1963. Also in that year, the Board of Trustees 
resolved to make Hofstra architecturally barrier-free for individuals with 
physical disabilities, stating that all students should have access to 
higher education. This later became federal law, and Hofstra was subsequently 
recognized as a pioneer. Other forward-thinking programs and events followed, 
including the New Opportunities at Hofstra (NOAH) program, which was established 
the following year. NOAH is Hofstra’s Arthur O. Eve Higher Education Opportunity 
Program. In 1963, Mitchel Air Force Base was closed by the military and 
declared surplus property. The university asked for part of the area to 
be used for educational purposes, and was subsequently granted 110 acres 
(0.45 km2). Remnants of the concrete runways from the Air Force base are 
now parking lots for Hofstra's North Campus. In 1963, the Hofstra University 
Museum was established. The university reorganized its divisions into “schools” 
in the 1960s. Hofstra was authorized by the Board of Regents to offer its 
first doctoral degrees in 1966. In 1968, the Hofstra Stadium became the 
first to install Astroturf outdoors in the East, and the New York Jets 
began holding their summer training camp to the North Campus, until 2008, 
when the Jets moved to Florham Park, New Jersey. The Arboretum and Bird 
Sanctuary at Hofstra University has collection of diverse trees and reflecting 
to its Dutch origin displays an array of rare and colorful tulips in the 
Spring.[11] There are 3,361 faculty members (including more than 2200 in 
the school of medicine system),[12] 6,833 undergraduates, with a total 
of 10,870 students overall, including all full and part-time undergraduates, 
graduates, law and medical students. The campus has approximately 113 buildings 
on 240 acres (97 ha). The part of the campus located south of Hempstead 
Turnpike (NY Route 24) and west of California Avenue is located in the 
Village of Hempstead. The part of the campus north of Hempstead Turnpike 
and east of California Avenue is located in Uniondale and East Garden City. 
Hofstra also offers an MBA program as well as other classes in New York 
City from a center in Manhattan.[13][14] Hofstra is a national university, 
presently ranked at #135, according to the 2015 edition of U.S. News & 
World Report. It holds full accreditation in 19 academic areas. Nationally, 
fewer than 100 colleges and universities match this achievement.[21] In 
2015, Hofstra University was ranked #11 in New York State by average professor 
salaries.[22] The school's acceptance rate is 58.8%.[23] Average SAT scores 
in the university range from 1200–1330.[24] The Hofstra University Honors 
College, whose admissions policy is more selective than that of the university 
as a whole,[25] offers rigorous educational opportunities for high-achieving 
students. The School for University Studies provides a program for students 
whose abilities are not reflected in standardized test scores; while New 
Opportunities at Hofstra (NOAH) is designed for students whose educational 
progress to date has been restricted by limited educational opportunities 
or economic status. According to the Carnegie Classification of Institutions 
of Higher Education, Hofstra is considered a large research university.[26] 
In the fall of 2011, the university welcomed the first class of students 
in its new Hofstra Northwell School of Medicine. In 2012, it established 
its School of Engineering and Applied Science, featuring programs that 
partner with regional industry leaders,[27] and its School of Health Sciences 
and Human Services, housing a new master of public health program.[28] 
Hofstra University hosted the third and final 2008 presidential debate 
(between Barack Obama and John McCain) on October 15, 2008. The debate, 
the first presidential debate in New York since the 1960 debate between 
John F. Kennedy and then Vice-President Richard M. Nixon, focused on economic 
policy and domestic issues. It is remembered for McCain's introduction 
and frequent references to "Joe the Plumber". Hofstra's successful bid 
to host this presidential debate in 2008 provided the springboard for a 
broad, campuswide program called "Educate '08," featuring a year of free 
lectures, conferences and other events about politics and public policy. 
The program featured national media and political figures as guest speakers, 
including George Stephanopoulos, Maureen Dowd, Ari Fleischer, James Carville 
and Mary Matalin. "Educate '08" gave way to "Define '09", a program which 
brought to campus various speakers to examine the impact of the historic 
election of the nation's first African-American president and the policy 
challenges facing the Obama Administration. In September 2009, Hofstra 
University President Stuart Rabinowitz announced the appointment of two 
senior presidential fellows at the university's Peter S. Kalikow Center 
for the Study of the American Presidency: Republican strategist and former 
presidential advisor Edward J. Rollins and former Vermont governor, presidential 
candidate and Democratic National Committee Chairman Howard Dean. In October 
2011, the Commission on Presidential Debates announced that it had chosen 
Hofstra as the location for its second 2012 presidential debate on October 
16, 2012, the "town hall" debate (between Barack Obama and Mitt Romney).[29] 
Hofstra University hosted the first presidential debate between Donald 
Trump and Hillary Clinton on September 26, 2016.[30] Hofstra University 
teams had the unofficial nickname of the Flying Dutchmen.[5] The school's 
official team name became "The Pride" in 2004, referring to a pair of lions 
which became the school's athletic mascots in the late 1980s. The Pride 
nickname evolved from the Hofstra Pride on- and off-campus image campaign 
that began in 1987, during the university's dramatic recovery and growth. 
This followed a financial crisis in the 1970s that forced the layoff of 
more than 100 employees. The school's revival was credited in large part 
to the man who led the university from 1976 to 2001—educator, government 
official and former Hofstra football star Dr. James M. Shuart. Hofstra 
Stadium, the school's main outdoor athletic facility, has been named James 
M. Shuart Stadium since 2002. Prior to 2008, the New York Jets held summer 
training camp at their on-campus headquarters before moving to their new 
headquarters in Florham Park, New Jersey. On December 3, 2009, the university 
announced it was terminating the football program. Under NCAA rules, any 
football players who chose to transfer to other schools were eligible to 
play immediately, and not subjected to normal residency waiting periods. 
Scholarship-holders who wished to stay at Hofstra were permitted to keep 
their scholarships.[33] On February 26, 2011, Hofstra Senior Day, the university 
retired the basketball jersey number 22 to honor senior Charles Jenkins 
before the end of the season. Jenkins, the school's all-time leading scorer, 
ranked fifth in the nation at 23.3 points per game last season (as of February 
22, 2011) and was the front-runner to win Colonial Athletic Association 
Player of the Year honors. "I think it's very rare," head coach Mo Cassara 
said by phone to reporter Jeff Eisenberg. "We have 25 other athletes that 
have had their numbers retired here at Hofstra, but none of them have ever 
been retired while they were still here at their last games. He's been 
such an integral part of this university on so many levels that we thought 
that was the highest honor we could give him." No other Hofstra athlete 
in any sport has received the same honor, though Wake Forest's Tim Duncan 
and Duke's Christian Laettner, Bobby Hurley and Grant Hill all had their 
jerseys retired before their last home games.[34] The Hofstra University 
Pride Wrestling team competes in the Eastern Intercollegiate Wrestling 
Association, as wrestling is not supported by the Colonial Athletic Association. 
The Hofstra Chronicle is the only student newspaper of Hofstra University, 
established in 1935. The paper is in tabloid format and is published 12 
times each semester and once a summer. The Chronicle is supported by the 
student activity fee and advertising.[35] The university operates Long 
Island's oldest public radio station, WRHU-FM (88.7). The noncommercial 
broadcaster was founded in 1950 as WHCH, a campus-limited station, and 
received its broadcast license on June 9, 1959, using the call letters 
WVHC. The station became WRHU (for Radio Hofstra University) in 1983. WRHU 
currently serves as the radio home of the New York Islanders. The university 
has had a long history of Greek-Lettered organizations dating back to its 
founding. The local chapter that started Greek life on Hofstra's campus, 
Alpha Theta Beta (AΘB), is still active today. In the early 1990s, as Hofstra 
began to grow so did its social organizations. Many national chartered 
chapters were founded in 1989. One of the local chapters, the Wreath and 
Foil sorority, founded in 1937, became Phi Sigma Sigma. One of the more 
notable changes in the 1990s was the removal of many local chapters and 
growth of nationally chartered fraternities, such as Zeta Beta Tau, Alpha 
Epsilon Pi, Kappa Sigma, and a business fraternity, Alpha Kappa Psi (1989). 
Tau Epsilon Phi and Tau Kappa Epsilon are the oldest fraternities on campus, 
both arriving in 1969. The Alpha Phi sorority is the oldest nationally 
recognized sorority on campus, founded in 1872. Overall Greek-lettered 
organizations contribute to much of the philanthropy on campus, well as 
much of the school spirit. During events like Homecoming parades, students 
and alumni notice a majority of Greek-lettered floats. And the Sinterklaas 
celebration, a fifteen-year-old tradition of a holiday village built and 
constructed annually by members of the Greek lettered community for local 
children to play in and around during the December holiday season. One 
of its largest events, Greek Week held in the Spring semester, is a week 
long series of events of competition. Mainly sports, well as toga skits, 
banner competitions, a can castle, for local homeless shelters, and a relay 
race the community generates a lot of attention. The Greek-Lettered community 
is often noted for maintaining many traditions, and loyalty towards their 
alma mater. In addition, these organizations are noted for creating much 
of the social life on and off campus. Since 2001, when the newest President 
of the University took office three additional social organizations have 
colonized and chartered chapters on campus: the Delta Chi fraternity, the 
Delta Gamma fraternity, and the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. The Phi Delta 
Theta fraternity applied successfully for colonization in the Spring 2010 
semester. The Alpha Epsilon Pi fraternity applied successfully for re-colonization 
in the Spring 2010 Semester. The Phi Kappa Theta fraternity applied successfully 
for colonization in the Spring 2015 semester. The Alpha Phi Omega fraternity 
recognizes a petitioning group on campus that has not yet been formally 
installed as a chapter. Three social organizations, the Sigma Sigma Sigma 
sorority, the Delta Sigma Phi fraternity, and the Zeta Beta Tau fraternity, 
remain inactive. Delta Sigma Phi James Caan, actor Wayne Chrebet, NFL football 
player Robert Davi (left), actor Rosemarie DeWitt, actress Speedy Claxton, 
NBA basketball player Francis Ford Coppola, director Charles Jenkins, NBA 
basketball player Lainie Kazan, actress and singer Bernard Madoff, Stockbroker 
David Paterson, former governor of New York Philip Rosenthal, producer 
Leslie Segrete, designer Ken Singleton, MLB baseball player Christopher 
Walken, actor Chris Weidman, UFC fighter and former Middleweight champion 
