Hokkaido (北海道, Hokkaidō?, literally "Northern Sea Circuit") (Japanese: [hokkaidoː] ( 
listen)), formerly known as Ezo, Yezo, Yeso, or Yesso, is the second largest 
island of Japan, and the largest and northernmost prefecture. The Tsugaru 
Strait separates Hokkaido from Honshu.[1] The two islands are connected 
by the underwater railway Seikan Tunnel. The largest city on Hokkaido is 
its capital, Sapporo, which is also its only ordinance-designated city. 
Hokkaido (北海道) was settled by the Ainu,[2] Nivkh, and Orok before recorded 
history.[3] The Nihon Shoki, finished in 720 AD, is often said to be the 
first mention of Hokkaido in recorded history. According to the text, Abe 
no Hirafu[3] led a large navy and army to northern areas from 658 to 660 
and came into contact with the Mishihase and Emishi. One of the places 
Hirafu went to was called Watarishima (渡島?), which is often believed to 
be present-day Hokkaido. However, many theories exist in relation to the 
details of this event, including the location of Watarishima and the common 
belief that the Emishi in Watarishima were the ancestors of the present-day 
Ainu people. During the Nara and Heian periods (710–1185), people in Hokkaido 
conducted trade with Dewa Province, an outpost of the Japanese central 
government. From the Middle Ages, the people in Hokkaido began to be called 
Ezo. Hokkaido, formerly known as Ezochi[4] Ezochi (蝦夷地?, lit. "Ezo-land") 
or Ezogashima (蝦夷ヶ島?, lit. "Island of the Ezo"). The Ezo mainly relied 
upon hunting and fishing and obtained rice and iron through trade with 
the Japanese. During the Muromachi period (1336–1573), the Japanese created 
a settlement at the south of the Oshima Peninsula. As more people moved 
to the settlement to avoid battles, disputes arose between the Japanese 
and the Ainu. The disputes eventually developed into a war. Takeda Nobuhiro 
killed the Ainu leader, Koshamain,[3] and defeated the opposition in 1457. 
Nobuhiro's descendants became the rulers of the Matsumae-han, which was 
granted exclusive trading rights with the Ainu in the Azuchi-Momoyama and 
Edo periods (1568–1868). The Matsumae family's economy relied upon trade 
with the Ainu. They held authority over the south of Ezochi until the end 
of the Edo period in 1868. The Matsumae clan rule over the Ainu must be 
understood in the context of the expansion of the Japanese feudal state. 
Medieval military leaders in northern Honshū (ex. Northern Fujiwara, Akita 
clan) maintained only tenuous political and cultural ties to the imperial 
court and its proxies, the Kamakura Shogunate and Ashikaga Shogunate. Feudal 
strongmen sometimes located themselves within medieval institutional order, 
taking shogunal titles, while in other times they assumed titles that seemed 
to give them a non-Japanese identity. In fact many of the feudal strongmen 
were descended from Emishi military leaders who had been assimilated into 
Japanese society.[5] The Matsumae clan were of Yamato descent like other 
ethnic Japanese people, whereas the Emishi of northern Honshu where a distinctive 
group related to the Ainu. The Emishi were conquered and integrated into 
the Japanese state dating back as far as the 8th century, and as result 
began to lose their distinctive culture and ethnicity as they became minorities. 
By the time the Matsumae clan ruled over the Ainu most of the Emishi were 
ethnically mixed and physically closer to Japanese than they were to Ainu. 
This dovetails nicely with the "transformation" theory that native Jōmon 
peoples changed gradually with the infusion of Yayoi immigrants into the 
Tōhoku rather than the "replacement" theory which posits that one population 
(Jōmon) was replaced by another (Yayoi).[6] There were numerous revolts 
by the Ainu against feudal rule. The last large-scale resistance was Shakushain's 
Revolt in 1669–1672. In 1789, a smaller movement, the Menashi-Kunashir 
Rebellion, was also crushed. After that rebellion the terms "Japanese" 
and "Ainu" referred to clearly distinguished groups, and the Matsumae were 
unequivocally Japanese. In 1799–1821 and 1855–1858 the Edo Shogunate took 
direct control over Hokkaido in response to a perceived threat from Russia. 
Leading up to the Meiji Restoration, the Tokugawa Shogunate realized there 
was a need to prepare northern defenses against a possible Russian invasion 
and took over control of most of Ezochi. The Shogunate made the plight 
of the Ainu slightly easier, but did not change the overall form of rule.[7] 
Hokkaido was known as Ezochi until the Meiji Restoration. Shortly after 
the Boshin War in 1868, a group of Tokugawa loyalists led by Enomoto Takeaki 
temporarily occupied the island (the polity is commonly but mistakenly 
known as the Republic of Ezo), but the rebellion was crushed in May 1869. 
Ezochi was subsequently put under control of Hakodate-fu (箱館府?), Hakodate 
Prefectural Government. When establishing the Development Commission (開拓使, 
Kaitakushi?), the Meiji Government introduced a new name. After 1869, the 
northern Japanese island was known as Hokkaido;[1] and regional subdivisions 
were established, including the provinces of Oshima, Shiribeshi, Iburi, 
Ishikari, Teshio, Kitami, Hidaka, Tokachi, Kushiro, Nemuro and Chishima.[8] 
The primary purpose of the development commission was to secure Hokkaido 
before the Russians extended their control of the Far East beyond Vladivostok. 
Kuroda Kiyotaka was put in charge of the venture. His first step was to 
journey to the United States and recruit Horace Capron, President Grant's 
Commissioner of Agriculture. From 1871 to 1873 Capron bent his efforts 
to expounding Western agriculture and mining with mixed results. Capron, 
frustrated with obstacles to his efforts returned home in 1875. In 1876, 
William S. Clark arrived to found an agricultural college in Sapporo. Although 
he only remained a year, Clark left lasting impression on Hokkaido, inspiring 
the Japanese with his teachings on agriculture as well as Christianity.[9] 
His parting words, "Boys, be ambitious!" can be found on public buildings 
in Hokkaido to this day. The population of Hokkaido boomed from 58,000 
to 240,000 during that decade.[10] In 1882, the Development Commission 
was abolished, and Hokkaido was separated into three prefectures -- Hakodate 
Prefecture (函館県, Hakodate-ken?), Sapporo Prefecture (札幌県, Sapporo-ken?), 
and Nemuro Prefecture (根室県, Nemuro-ken?). In 1886, the three prefectures 
were abolished, and Hokkaido was put under the Hokkaido Agency (北海道庁, Hokkaidō-chō?). 
Hokkaido became equal with other prefectures in 1947, when the revised 
Local Autonomy Law became effective. The Japanese central government established 
the Hokkaido Development Agency (北海道開発庁, Hokkaidō Kaihatsuchō?) as an agency 
of the Prime Minister's Office in 1949 to maintain its executive power 
in Hokkaido. The Agency was absorbed by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure 
and Transport in 2001. The Hokkaido Bureau (北海道局, Hokkaidō-kyoku?) and 
the Hokkaido Regional Development Bureau (北海道開発局, Hokkaidō Kaihatsukyoku?) 
of the Ministry still have a strong influence on public construction projects 
in Hokkaido. In mid-July 1945 shipping, cities and military facilities 
in Hokkaido were attacked by the United States Navy's Task Force 38. On 
14 and 15 July aircraft operating from the task force's aircraft carriers 
sank and damaged a large number of ships in ports along Hokkaido's southern 
coastline as well as in northern Honshu. In addition, on 15 July a force 
of three battleships and two light cruisers bombarded the city of Muroran.[11] 
When establishing the Development Commission (開拓使, Kaitakushi?), the Meiji 
Government decided to change the name of Ezochi. Matsuura Takeshirō submitted 
six proposals, including names such as Kaihokudō (海北道?) and Hokkaidō (北加伊道?), 
to the government. The government eventually decided to use the name Hokkaidō, 
but decided to write it as 北海道, as a compromise between 海北道 and because 
of the similarity with names such as Tōkaidō (東海道?). According to Matsuura, 
the name was thought up because the Ainu called the region Kai. Historically, 
many peoples who had interactions with the ancestors of the Ainu called 
them and their islands[dubious – discuss] Kuyi, Kuye, Qoy, or some similar 
name, which may have some connection to the early modern form Kai. The 
Kai element also strongly resembles the Sino-Japanese reading of the characters 
蝦夷 (Sino-Japanese Japanese pronunciation: [ka.i], Japanese kun'yomi [emisi])[dubious 
– discuss], which have been used for over a thousand years in China and 
Japan as the standard orthographic form to be used when referring to Ainu 
and related peoples; it is possible that Matsuura's Kai was actually an 
alteration, influenced by the Sino-Japanese reading of 蝦夷 Ka-i, of the 
Nivkh exonym for the Ainu, namely Qoy or IPA: [kʰuɣi].[12] There is no 
known established Ainu language word for the island of Hokkaido. However, 
the Ainu people did have a name for all of their domain, which included 
Hokkaido along with the Kuril Islands, Sakhalin, and parts of northern 
Honshu, which was Aynu Mosir (アィヌ・モシリ), a name taken by the modern Ainu 
to refer to their traditional homeland.[13][14][15][16][17] "Ainu Mosir" 
literally translates as "The Land Where People (the Ainu) Live", and it 
was traditionally used to be contrasted with Kamuy Mosir, "The Land of 
the Kamuy (spirits)".[18] The island of Hokkaido is located at the north 
end of Japan, near Russia, and has coastlines on the Sea of Japan, the 
Sea of Okhotsk, and the Pacific Ocean. The center of the island has a number 
of mountains and volcanic plateaus, and there are coastal plains in all 
directions. Major cities include Sapporo and Asahikawa in the central region 
and the port of Hakodate facing Honshu. The governmental jurisdiction of 
Hokkaido incorporates several smaller islands, including Rishiri, Okushiri 
Island, and Rebun. (By Japanese reckoning, Hokkaido also incorporates several 
of the Kuril Islands.) Because the prefectural status of Hokkaido is denoted 
by the dō in its name, it is rarely referred to as "Hokkaido Prefecture", 
except when necessary to distinguish the governmental entity from the island. 
The island ranks 21st in the world by area. It is 3.6% smaller than the 
island of Ireland while Hispaniola is 6.1% smaller than Hokkaido. By population 
it ranks 20th, between Ireland and Sicily. Hokkaido's population is 4.7% 
less than that of the island of Ireland, and Sicily's is 12% lower than 
Hokkaido's. In the east, there are two areas (surrounding, for example, 
Shari and the Nakashibetsu Airport) where a grid with spacing of nearly 
3 km is formed by narrow bands of forest.[citation needed] It was designed 
to buffer wind, especially during blizzards, to protect cattle. It also 
serves as habitat and transportation corridors for animals and hikers. 
Like many areas of Japan, Hokkaido is seismically active. Aside from numerous 
earthquakes, the following volcanoes are still considered active (at least 
one eruption since 1850): In 1993, an earthquake of magnitude 7.7 generated 
a tsunami which devastated Okushiri, killing 202. An earthquake of magnitude 
8.3 struck near the island on 26 September 2003. There are still many undisturbed 
forests in Hokkaido, including: * designated a World Heritage Site by UNESCO 
on 2005-07-14. There are three populations of the Hokkaido brown bear (Ursus 
arctos yesoensis). There are more brown bears than anywhere else in Asia. 
The Hokkaido brown bear is separated into three distinct lineages. There 
are only eight lineages in the world.[20] Those on Honshu died out long 
ago. From April 2010, Hokkaido has 9 General Subprefectural Bureaus (総合振興局) 
and 5 Subprefectural Bureaus (振興局). Prior to that, Hokkaido is one of eight 
prefectures in Japan that have subprefectures (支庁 shichō). However, it 
is the only one of the eight to have such offices covering the whole of 
its territory outside the main cities (rather than having them just for 
outlying islands or remote areas). This is mostly due to its great size: 
many parts of the prefecture are simply too far away to be effectively 
administered by Sapporo. Subprefectural offices in Hokkaido carry out many 
of the duties that prefectural offices fulfill elsewhere in Japan. Before 
the current political divisions and after 1869, Hokkaido was divided into 
provinces. See Former provinces of Hokkaido. Hokkaido has relatively cool 
summers and icy/snowy winters. Most of the island falls in the humid continental 
climate zone with Köppen climate classification Dfb (hemiboreal) in most 
areas but Dfa (hot summer humid continental) in some inland lowlands. The 
average August temperature ranges from 17 to 22 °C (62.6 to 71.6 °F), while 
the average January temperature ranges from −12 to −4 °C (10.4 to 24.8 °F), 
in both cases depending on elevation and distance from the ocean, though 
temperatures on the western side of the island tend to be a little warmer 
than on the eastern. The northern portion of Hokkaido falls into the taiga 
biome,[21] with significant snowfall. Snowfall varies widely from as much 
as 11 metres (400 in) on the mountains adjacent to the Sea of Japan down 
to around 1.8 metres (71 in) on the Pacific coast. The island tends to 
see isolated snowstorms that develop long-lasting snowbanks, in contrast 
to the constant flurries seen in the Hokuriku region. Total precipitation 
varies from 1,600 millimetres (63 in) on the mountains of the Sea of Japan 
coast to around 800 millimetres (31 in) (the lowest in Japan) on the Sea 
of Okhotsk coast and interior lowlands and up to around 1,100 millimetres 
(43 in) on the Pacific side. Unlike the other major islands of Japan, Hokkaido 
is normally not affected by the June–July rainy season and the relative 
lack of humidity and typically warm, rather than hot, summer weather makes 
its climate an attraction for tourists from other parts of Japan. In winter, 
the generally high quality of powder snow and numerous mountains in Hokkaido 
make it a popular region for snow sports. The snowfall usually commences 
in earnest in November and ski resorts (such as those at Niseko, Furano, 
Teine and Rusutsu) usually operate between December and April. Hokkaido 
celebrates its winter weather at the Sapporo Snow Festival. During the 
winter, passage through the Sea of Okhotsk is often complicated by large 
floes of drift ice. Combined with high winds that occur during winter, 
this frequently brings air travel and maritime activity to a halt beyond 
the northern coast of Hokkaido. Ports on the open Pacific Ocean and Sea 
of Japan are generally ice-free year round, though most rivers freeze during 
the winter. Hokkaido's largest city is the capital, Sapporo, which is a 
designated city. The island has two core cities: Hakodate in the south 
and Asahikawa in the central region. Other important population centers 
include Kushiro, Obihiro, Kitami, Abashiri, Wakkanai, and Nemuro. Hokkaido 
has the highest rate of depopulation in Japan. In 2000, 152 (71.7%) of 
Hokkaido's 212 municipalities were shrinking. Altogether, shrinking municipalities 
in Japan in the same year numbered 1,171.[citation needed] Although there 
is some light industry (most notably paper milling and beer brewing) most 
of the population is employed by the service sector. In 2001, the service 
sector and other tertiary industries generated more than three-quarters 
of the gross domestic product.[22] However, agriculture and other primary 
industries play a large role in Hokkaido's economy. Hokkaido has nearly 
one fourth of Japan's total arable land. It ranks first in the nation in 
the production of a host of agricultural products, including wheat, soybeans, 
potatoes, sugar beet, onions, pumpkins, corn, raw milk, and beef. Hokkaido 
also accounts for 22% of Japan's forests with a sizable timber industry. 
The prefecture is also first in the nation in production of marine products 
and aquaculture.[22] Tourism is an important industry, especially during 
the cool summertime when visitors are attracted to Hokkaido's open spaces 
from hotter and more humid parts of Japan and other Asian countries. During 
the winter, skiing and other winter sports bring other tourists, and increasingly 
international ones, to the island.[23] Hokkaido's only land link to the 
rest of Japan is the Seikan Tunnel. Most travellers travel to the island 
by air: the main airport is New Chitose Airport at Chitose, just south 
of Sapporo. Tokyo-Chitose is in the top 10 of the world's busiest air routes, 
handling more than 40 widebody round trips on several airlines each day. 
One of the airlines, Air Do was named after Hokkaido. Hokkaido can also 
be reached by ferry from Sendai, Niigata and some other cities, with the 
ferries from Tokyo dealing only in cargo. Within Hokkaido, there is a fairly 
well-developed railway network (see Hokkaido Railway Company), but many 
cities can only be accessed by road. Hokkaido is home to one of Japan's 
three Melody Roads, which is made from grooves cut into the ground, which 
when driven over causes a tactile vibration and audible rumbling transmitted 
through the wheels into the car body.[24][25] The Hokkaido Prefectural 
Board of Education oversees public schools (except colleges and universities) 
in Hokkaido. Public elementary and junior high schools (except Hokkaido 
Noboribetsu Akebi Secondary School and schools attached to Hokkaido University 
of Education) are operated by municipalities, and public high schools are 
operated by either the prefectural board or municipalities. Hokkaido has 
37 universities (7 national, 5 local public, and 25 private universities), 
34 junior colleges, and 5 colleges of technology (4 national and 1 local 
public colleges). National universities located in Hokkaido are: Hokkaido 
government runs Sapporo Medical University, a medical school in Sapporo. 
The 1972 Winter Olympics were held in Sapporo. The sports teams listed 
below are based in Hokkaido. Hokkaido has relationships with several provinces, 
states, and other entities worldwide.[27] As of January 2014, 74 individual 
municipalities in Hokkaido have sister city agreements with 114 cities 
in 21 different countries worldwide.[32] The current governor of Hokkaido 
is Harumi Takahashi. She won a fourth term in the gubernatorial election 
in 2015 with centre-right support. Her first election in 2003 in a close 
race against centre-left supported Yoshio Hachiro and seven other candidates 
ended a 20-year streak of victories by Socialist Party heavyweight Takahiro 
Yokomichi and then his former vice governor Tatsuya Hori who beat Hideko 
Itō twice by large margins. Itō, a former Socialist Diet member was supported 
by the Liberal Democratic Party against Hori in 1995 (at the time, Socialists 
and Liberal Democrats formed the ruling "grand" coalition on the national 
level); In 1999, Hori was supported by all major non-Communist parties 
and Itō ran without party support. Before 1983, the governorship had been 
held by Liberal Democrats Naohiro Dōgakinai and Kingo Machimura for 24 
years. In the 1971 election when Machimura retired, the Socialist candidate 
Shōhei Tsukada lost to Dōgakinai by only 13,000 votes;[33] Tsukada was 
also supported by the Communist Party – the leftist cooperation in opposition 
to the US-Japanese security treaty had brought joint Socialist-Communist 
candidates to victory in many other prefectural and local elections in 
the 1960s and 1970s. In 1959, Machimura had defeated Yokomichi's father 
Setsuo in the race to succeed Hokkaido's first elected governor, Socialist 
Toshibumi Tanaka who retired after three terms. Tanaka had only won the 
governorship in 1947 in a run-off election against Democrat Eiji Arima 
because no candidate had received the necessary vote share to win in the 
first round as required by law at the time. The Hokkaido Prefectural Assembly 
has 101 members from 47 electoral districts. As of April 30, 2015, the 
LDP caucus holds a majority with 51 seats, the DPJ-led group has 26 members. 
Other groups are the Hokkaidō Yūshikai of New Party Daichi and independents 
with twelve seats, Kōmeitō with eight, and the Japanese Communist Party 
with four members.[34] General elections for the Hokkaido assembly are 
currently held together with gubernatorial elections in the unified local 
elections (last round: April 2015). For the lower house of the National 
Diet, Hokkaido is divided into twelve single-member electoral districts. 
In the 2014 election, candidates from the governing coalition of Liberal 
Democrats and New Komeito won nine districts, Democrats three. For the 
proportional election segment, Hokkaido and Tokyo are the only two prefectures 
that form a regional "block" district of their own. The Hokkaido proportional 
representation block elects eight Representatives. In 2014, the Liberal 
Democratic Party received 29.8% of the proportional vote and won three 
seats, the Democratic Party won two (27.6% of the vote), one seat each 
went to Kōmeitō (12.3%), Japan Innovation Party (9.9%) and – for the first 
time since the 2000 lower house election – the Japanese Communist Party 
(12.1%). More than four percent of Hokkaidō proportional votes in 2014 
went to a minor protest group named shiji seitō nashi ("no party supported"/"[I/we] 
support no party"). In the upper house of the National Diet, a major reapportionment 
in the 1990s halved the number of Councillors from Hokkaido per election 
from four to two. After the elections of 2010 and 2013, the Hokkaido electoral 
district – like most two-member districts for the upper house – is represented 
by two Liberal Democrats and two Democrats. In the 2016 upper house election, 
the district magnitude will be raised to three, Hokkaidō will then temporarily 
be represented by five members and six after the 2019 election. ^[note 
1] Source: English edition of Sightseeing in Hokkaido, Winter Festival 
