Home Away The Hokkaido Nippon-Ham Fighters (北海道日本ハムファイターズ, Hokkaidō Nippon-Hamu 
Faitāzu?) are a Japanese professional baseball team based in Sapporo, Hokkaidō. 
They compete in the Pacific League of Nippon Professional Baseball, playing 
the majority of their home games at the Sapporo Dome. The Fighters also 
host a select number of regional home games in cities across Hokkaidō, 
including Hakodate, Asahikawa, Kushiro, and Obihiro. The team's name comes 
from its parent organization, Nippon Ham, a major Japanese food processing 
company. Founded in 1946, the Fighters called Tokyo home for 58 years, 
as co-tenants of the Tokyo Dome with the Central League's Yomiuri Giants 
near the end of their tenure in the capital city. The franchise has won 
three Japan Series titles, in 1962, 2006, and, most recently, 2016. In 
1946, Saburo Yokozawa, manager of the Tokyo Senators in 1936–1937, looked 
to revive the franchise and soon founded the new Senators. He assembled 
a team of ready and able players like Hiroshi Oshita, Shigeya Iijima and 
Giichiro Shiraki, but as a newly formed team the Senators faced strict 
fiscal management and resorted to using hand-me-down uniforms from the 
Hankyu Railway's pre-war team (who would eventually become the modern-day 
Orix Buffaloes). Former Japanese statesman Kinkazu Saionji, grandson of 
the influential Kinmochi Saionji, became the team's owner, and Noboru Oride, 
borrowing heavily from a Ginza cabaret proprietor, became the team's sponsor. 
Eventually, trapped by a lack of funds, Yokozawa was forced to resign as 
the team's manager. For a time, the team was even mockingly nicknamed "Seito" 
(Bluestockings) after a Japanese feminist magazine of the same name. As 
the Yomiuri Giants' pet name was "Kyojin", baseball personality Soutaro 
Suzuki thought that other teams should also have pet names like the Giants, 
and names such as the Osaka Tigers' alias "Mouko" (fierce tiger), the Senators' 
"Seito" and the Pacific's "Taihei" (tranquility) began to be used by the 
press. However, the other teams rejected the use of these pet names, so 
they were not fully adopted. On January 7, 1947, the team was sold to the 
Tokyu Corporation. The Tokyu baseball club was inaugurated into the league, 
and the team's name became the Tokyu Flyers. At that time Tokyu dominated 
the Japanese transportation sector, owning several other railway companies, 
although it was faced with troubles and the possibility of a breakup. Tokyu 
purchased the team to act as a banner of solidarity for the swelling company, 
and managing director Hiroshi Okawa assumed ownership of the club. The 
newly-born Flyers, with Hiroshi Oshita becoming one of the most popular 
players in the league, began to attract many fans, but the team's administration 
still went into a deficit. With the formation of the National Baseball 
League drawing nearer, in 1948 the not-yet-affiliated Daiei club, which 
had played a few exhibition games against the Otsuka Athletics, joined 
with Tokyu to create the Kyuei Flyers ("Kyuei" being a portmanteau of the 
two companies' names). However, Daiei decided to purchase a separate team, 
the Kinsei Stars, and after only one year the Flyers reverted to their 
former name. During the off-season of 1949, the Flyers joined the Pacific 
League after the former league split. In September 1953, the team completed 
a new ballpark—Komazawa Stadium—along one of Tokyu's train lines in Setagaya, 
Tokyo, moving from Bunkyo ward's Korakuen Stadium. The Flyers' wild play 
on the field eventually earned them the nickname, "Komazawa's hooligans." 
On February 1, 1954, Tokyu entrusted the management of the Flyers to the 
Toei Company, of which Okawa had newly become president. Toei transferred 
control of the club to a subsidiary company, Toei Kogyo (industrial enterprise). 
The team's name was changed to the Toei Flyers, and its legal name consequently 
became the Toei Flyers Baseball Club. This name stuck for nineteen years. 
In 1961, when Yomiuri Giants manager Shigeru Mizuhara resigned from his 
position, Okawa attempted to woo him to join his team, bringing him to 
a bar in Kyoto and calling famous movie producer Koji Shundo to meet with 
them. Shundo, an old drinking buddy of Mizuhara's, convinced the four-time 
Japan Series champion manager to join the Flyers, and he solidified a strong 
relationship with Okawa and Toei Studios. Komazawa Stadium was to be torn 
down to make way for the 1964 Tokyo Summer Olympics, so in 1962 the Flyers 
moved their base of operations to Meiji Jingu Stadium in Shinjuku. (At 
that time, college baseball teams had priority at Meiji Jingu, so during 
weekends or other times when school games were being played the Flyers 
had to use Korakuen or another field for their games.) In the same year, 
two star aces, Masayuki Dobashi and Yukio Ozaki, blossomed under Mizuhara's 
coaching and the Flyers captured their first league championship. They 
would go on to defy odds in the Japan Series and defeat the Hanshin Tigers 
for their first Japan Series title. This championship would be their only 
one in the Toei era. The Kokutetsu Swallows jointly occupied Meiji Jingu 
with the Flyers the following season, and in 1964 the Flyers went back 
to their old home, Korakuen. The Flyers assembled a group of powerful sluggers 
over the next few years—among them: Isao Harimoto, Katsuo Osugi, Inchon 
Bek, and Shoichi Busujima—but on top of a declining movie industry and 
the "Black Mist" match-fixing scandal that rocked the professional baseball 
world in 1970 (after which Flyers ace Toshiaki Moriyasu was banned from 
the game for life), in 1971 Flyers owner Okawa died suddenly. Shigeru Okada, 
who did not view Okawa favorably, took over Toei after his death. Together 
with Noboru Goto, company president of Tokyu and loyal friend of Okada 
(and one who also thought unfavorably of Okawa), Okada let go of the unprofitable 
team. The team was sold to Akitaka Nishimura of the Nittaku Home real estate 
enterprise, a common acquaintance of Okada and Goto, on February 7, 1973. 
The team's name became the Nittaku Home Flyers. Nishimura, in an attempt 
to inject life back into the unpopular Pacific League, developed seven 
different uniforms for his team and experimented in every aspect of the 
team's operation, but the effort failed to produce results. Believing that 
the Pacific League's chances of survival were grim, Nishimura was on the 
verge of partnering with the Lotte Orions, who were eyeing a league reunification. 
When the deal fell through, Nishimura, tired of the baseball establishment, 
resigned from his leadership position and abandoned the Flyers. On November 
19, 1973, meatpacking company Nippon Ham purchased the team. The club's 
name changed to the Nippon-Ham Fighters, its official name became the Nippon-Ham 
Baseball Corporation, Osamu Mihara became the team president and Futoshi 
Nakanishi its manager. After twenty seven years, the "Flyers" nickname 
was abandoned. The "Fighters" nickname was born from a public appeal by 
the team's management. A female high school student from Okayama prefecture 
submitted the winning name, giving the reasoning that "(former Fighters 
player) Katsuo Osugi has guts, so he's a fighter." Ironically, Osugi would 
be traded to the Yakult Swallows soon after the Fighters were rechristened. 
Over the four seasons between 1974 and 1977, the Fighters dwelled at the 
bottom of the Pacific League, but after improving to finishing in third 
place for three straight years between 1978 and 1980, manager Keiji Osawa 
finally led the Fighters to their second Pacific League pennant in 1981. 
With saves-leader Yutaka Enatsu and starter Shigekuni Mashiba (who went 
15-0 over the season) forming the heart of the pitching staff, the Fighters 
shined with offensive sluggers Tony Solaita, Junichi Kashiwabara, and Tommy 
Cruz. The team that year also featured various important players of smaller 
stature, like Makoto Shimada and Nobuhiro Takashiro. They would go on to 
play the Yomiuri Giants in the Japan Series, where the Fighters lost in 
six games. At this time the franchise shared Korakuen Stadium with the 
Giants, so scheduling games throughout the season posed a problem. League 
schedulers tried to avoid putting the Fighters and the Giants at Korakuen 
on the same day, but when they both had home games scheduled, league officials 
made the implicit decision that the Giants would play during the day and 
the Fighters during the night. One novel aspect of the Fighters was that 
they attracted armies of grade-school boys to sit in the outfield stands 
on weekend games under a "Young Boys’ Fan Club" promotion, starting the 
first organized fan club in Japanese professional baseball. During the 
1980s the Fighters hosted many of the Pacific League's leading pitchers, 
including Isamu Kida (led the P.L. with 22 wins in his rookie year in 1980; 
won MVP, Rookie of the Year the same year), Mikio Kudō (20 wins in 1982), 
Hiroshi Tsuno (recorded double-digit win totals in several years throughout 
the mid-eighties) and Yasumitsu Shibata (three-time All Star; recorded 
no-hitter in 1990). Yukihiro Nishizaki particularly stood out, recording 
15 wins and an ERA under three in each of his first two years (though the 
Rookie of the Year title eluded him), racking up seven double-digit win 
seasons over the course of his eleven-year stay with the Fighters and gaining 
a considerable following from female fans due to his easy-going demeanor. 
From 1988 until the move to Hokkaidō, the Fighters played their home games 
in Tokyo Dome, the stadium that replaced their longtime home Korakuen. 
After the Dome was finished, the pitching dominance of Yukihiro Nishizaki 
and Yasumitsu Shibata began to emerge. Keiji Osawa came out of retirement 
to manage the team for a third time in 1993, only to see his team sink 
to the bottom of the standings; he gained notoriety for kneeling to the 
fans at the end of that season, begging for their forgiveness. With the 
Fighters experiencing more managerial troubles in 1996, then-manager Toshiharu 
Ueda suddenly took a personal leave during a pennant race with the Orix 
BlueWave, eventually causing the Fighters to fade over the last month of 
the season. However, new life was born in Tokyo Dome in 1998. Hitters such 
as Nigel Wilson, Jerry Brooks, Yukio Tanaka, Atsushi Kataoka, Katsuhiro 
Nishiura and a young Michihiro Ogasawara formed what became known as the 
Big Bang lineup and subsequently shattered various batting records. They 
ran away with first place for the first half of the season, but a pitching 
collapse in the second half caused a fall of historical proportions. The 
Fighters would ultimately finish in second place to the Seibu Lions. Prior 
to the 2002 season, the idea of moving the Fighters to Sapporo, the capital 
of Hokkaidō and Japan's fifth largest city, emerged. The Seibu Lions also 
had preliminary plans to move to the northern metropolis. Tokyo's Fighters 
fans voiced their opposition to the proposed relocation (though the franchise 
never drew as many fans as their co-habitual counterparts, the Giants, 
while playing in the capital), but it was eventually announced that the 
team would indeed call the Sapporo Dome its new home beginning in 2004. 
Aiming to build a grassroots relationship with its future fans, the team 
decided to change its name to the Hokkaido Nippon-Ham Fighters. At first, 
with the unhappy Seibu Lions suddenly changing their approval vote, Giants 
owner Tsuneo Watanabe and Seibu owner Yoshiaki Tsutsumi voiced their concerns 
over the move. They believed that Nippon Ham's choice to move the team 
would spur a decentralization in Japanese professional baseball, and they 
threatened that a decrease in the number of teams in the Kantō and Kansai 
regions should merit a one-league system instead of two. As a matter of 
fact, the question of reorganizing baseball's league structure eventually 
became a bigger issue than the sale and renaming of the Kintetsu Buffaloes. 
The issue eventually settled down, though, and the Fighter's relocation 
was eventually approved by the league. The response from the people of 
Hokkaidō was weak, but NPB fans welcomed the move, noting that the Fighters 
could now be free from the Tokyo Dome's high rent and perpetual second-billing 
to the Giants. Out of respect for the Tokyo-based Fighters fans, the team 
decided to schedule a few "home" games per season at the Tokyo Dome. After 
the move finally was complete in 2004, the Fighters signed former-Tigers 
superstar Tsuyoshi Shinjo and a revitalized Fernando Seguignol. American 
manager Trey Hillman led the team to success in his second year on the 
job, and at the end of the season, the Fighters were in a fierce race with 
the Chiba Lotte Marines for the final spot in the new P.L. playoff system. 
With a vital win over the Orix BlueWave on September 24, the newly moved 
Fighters earned a trip to the postseason, advancing to play Seibu in a 
three-game series. Though they put up a strong effort against Seibu ace 
Daisuke Matsuzaka, the Fighters lost the first game of the series 6-5. 
They took Game 2 by a score of 5-4. In the decisive third game, the Fighters 
fought back in the ninth inning after trailing for the whole game but ultimately 
fell to a Kazuhiro Wada walk-off home run, losing 6-5. The Fighters would 
have to wait for another chance for the P.L. pennant.[1] During the pennant 
race, the Fighters began selling tickets for infield reserved seats at 
a low 1,500 yen price point, in an attempt to draw fans to the park. At 
and after 7:30 pm, usually well after the first pitch, the team began selling 
special child-fare tickets called "730 Tickets" (they started the same 
promotion at the Tokyo Dome in 2005). In addition to these, in 2005 they 
added extra-low priced tickets, discount parking passes and beer coupons 
to attract more fans. As a result of these promotions, and partially due 
to the rising popularity of young pitcher Yu Darvish, drafted the year 
before, the left field stands became constantly sold out for exhibition 
games, regular season games and playoff games, filled with loud and raucous 
‘ouendan’. Even the right field stands, usually occupied by the visiting 
team's fans, began to fill with Fighters supporters. In 2005, the Fighters 
drew over 1,000,000 fans for the first time since 1993, ranking second 
in the P.L. after the Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks. Also in 2005, a previously 
unknown manager, Shigeru Takada, became the club's first general manager. 
On April 27, owner Yoshinori Okoso died. The Fighters retired the number 
100 in his honor, a first in club history (also the first retired number 
for owners in NPB). Yukio Tanaka reached a career 1000 RBI total, and Makoto 
Kaneko joined the 1000 hit club in the same year. On September 20 the Lions 
smashed the Fighters at home, crushing the Fighters’ hopes of making the 
playoffs for the second year in a row. In the offseason, the Fighters acquired 
Major League veteran José Macías, and as former number one starter Yusaku 
Iriki tried his luck in America the club attempted to sign Kazuhisa Ishii, 
but failed. In the draft, the team selected pitchers Tomoya Yagi and Masaru 
Takeda. And, before the 2006 season Shigeyuki Furuki and Kazunari Sanematsu 
were traded to the Giants for pitcher Hideki Okajima. The 2006 season would 
turn out to be a monumental one for the Fighters. After defeating the Tokyo 
Yakult Swallows on the final day of interleague play, the Fighters went 
on an eleven-game winning streak, the best such streak for the franchise 
in over 45 years and tying the team record. After achieving the feat, the 
team had a six- and a seven-game winning streak, demonstrating to the rest 
of the P.L. that they were a dangerous club. A fierce struggle for first 
place developed between the Fighters, Lions and Hawks. On September 27, 
the Fighters emerged in first place, earning the title "Regular Season 
Champions." They also boasted the best team ERA (3.05) and the best team 
home run total (135) in the NPB. Yu Darvish had an especially impressive 
year, winning 12 games and posting an ERA of 2.89, establishing himself 
as the ace of the Fighters’ staff. The Fighters swept the Hawks in the 
second stage of the P.L. playoffs to earn their third pennant. In the Japan 
Series, the team won their first Japanese championship in 44 years, defeating 
the Chunichi Dragons in five games. Fittingly, Darvish pitched for the 
win in the final game of the series. The series' MVP honors went to Fighters' 
outfielder Atsunori Inaba, who hit for a .357 batting average during the 
series with one home run and six RBIs.[2] The championship win was especially 
fitting for OF Tsuyoshi Shinjo, who was a longtime veteran of the Hanshin 
Tigers (who were perennial losers), and also had played for a brief time 
in the United States' Major League Baseball. It was Shinjo's ultimate desire 
to win a championship, and he did in the final year of his illustrious 
career in Japan with Nippon-Ham. This victory gave the Fighters a berth 
in the four-team Asia Series, in which the team went undefeated in the 
round-robin and won the final 1-0 over the La New Bears. The 2006 offseason 
saw the departure of 2 of Nippon-Ham's best players, both via free agency. 
First baseman Michihiro Ogasawara was signed to a blockbuster contract 
with the Yomiuri Giants, and left-handed reliever Hideki Okajima departed 
to the Boston Red Sox. At the start of the 2007 season, Nippon-Ham had 
a lot of trouble scoring runs, relying far too much on their pitching, 
despite the continuing maturation of Yu Darvish, who had back-to-back complete 
game, 14-strikeout performances early in the season. At one point, Nippon 
Ham was second-to-last in the Pacific League, but recently has been able 
to turn it around. With the start of Interleague play, Nippon Ham began 
a 14-game winning streak, which ended on June 9 with a 3-2 extra inning 
loss to the Yakult Swallows, with the bullpen wasting another great performance 
by Darvish. The Fighters went on to win the Pacific League championship 
and went through the Climax Series to earn a second consecutive trip to 
the Japan Series to once again face the Chunichi Dragons. But in a reversal 
of roles from last year, the Fighters took Game 1, but the Dragons took 
the next four games to defeat the Fighters; the last of which being a combined 
perfect game by Dragons pitchers Daisuke Yamai and Hitoki Iwase. Active: 
