A hold (abbreviated HLD, H or HD) is awarded to a relief pitcher who meets 
the following three conditions: The hold is not an official Major League 
Baseball statistic.[1] Unlike saves, wins, and losses, more than one pitcher 
per team can earn a hold for a game, though it is not possible for a pitcher 
to receive more than one hold in a given game. A pitcher can receive a 
hold by protecting a lead even if that lead is lost by a later pitcher 
after his exit. The hold was invented in 1986 by John Dewan and Mike O'Donnell 
to give a statistical measure of the effectiveness of the vast majority 
of relief pitchers who are afforded few opportunities to close a game. 
While middle relievers earn their share, holds are most often credited 
to setup pitchers. In 1994, PA SportsTicker created an alternate definition 
for a hold, removing the requirement that a pitcher needs to make an out 
in order to record a hold.[2] In 2009, STATS LLC purchased PA SportsTicker,[3] 
and the alternate definition is no longer in use. While holds are not an 
official MLB statistic, they are increasingly visible in many box scores, 
including espn.com and MLB.com. Many fantasy baseball providers also include 
holds as an optional category which can be included in customized leagues. 
The career leaders are listed based on total holds according to MLB.com,[4] 
which only records the statistic from 1999 onwards. Baseball statistics 
sites such as Baseball-reference.com[5] and The Baseball Cube[6] credit 
holds to players in games played before 1999 based on the record of the 
game situation when the pitcher entered and left the game. However, the 
hold totals do not always agree from site to site, or with MLB.com from 
1999 onward. The following players who began their Major League careers 
before 1999 would be among the career leaders if MLB had recorded the statistic 
in games prior to the 1999 season. They are listed here with hold totals 
as calculated by Baseball-reference.com. ** as calculated by Baseball-reference.com 
to include years before 1999. The single season MLB record for holds is 
41, established by Joel Peralta in 2013 pitching for the Tampa Bay Rays 
and equaled by Tony Watson in 2015 pitching for the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
Peralta surpassed the previous record of 40 holds set by Luke Gregerson 
