Holguín (Spanish pronunciation: [olˈɣin]) is a municipality and city in 
Cuba, and the capital of Province of Holguín. It also includes a tourist 
area, offering beach resorts in the outskirts of the region. After Havana, 
Santiago de Cuba, and Camaguey, it is the fourth largest city in Cuba. 
It was founded as San Isidoro de Holguín in 1545,[4] and it is named after 
its founder Captain García Holguín, a Spanish military officer. Prior to 
1976, Holguín was located in the province of Oriente. In Pope Francis' 
visit to the United States, in September 2015, he visited Cuba before the 
U.S., and while in Cuba, he visited the Diocese of Holguin to, among other 
things, commemorate the location where Christopher Columbus landed. The 
municipality is divided into the barrios of Aguarás, Aguas Claras, Alcalá, 
Arroyo Blanco del Sur, Báguanos, Cabezuelas, Cacocún, Calderón, Camazán, 
Cauto del Cristo, Corralillo, Cruces de Purnio, Damián, Floro Pérez,Gibara, 
Guabasiabo, Guayabal, Guirabo, Haticos del Purial, La Aguada, La Cuaba, 
La Palma, La Rioja, Las Calabazas, Managuaco, Melones, Norte, Omaja, Purnio, 
San Agustín, San Andrés, San Francisco, San Juan, San Lorenzo, Santa Rita, 
Sur, Tacámara, Tasajeras, Uñas, Uñitas, Velasco, Yareyal and Yayal.[1] 
There are several small city parks such as Parque Infantil, Parque San 
Jose, Parque San Isidoro, Parque Marti among others, most central the Calixto 
García in the downtown area. Close by one finds the galleries Centro Provincial 
de Arte and Bayado, a library, the club Casa de la Trova, the Martí cinema, 
the Theatre Eddy Suñol, the Province Museum La Periquera, a science museum, 
and a history museum. From the hill Loma de la Cruz, where a large crucifix 
is installed, which can be ascended by its 450 stairs, one can oversee 
the whole city. Holguín has a baseball stadium. The Frank País International 
Airport (city code HOG) is connected to Havana and several other world 
destinations. The main secondary education institution is the University 
of Holguín. The brewery Cerveceria Bucanero - a joint venture with Labatt 
of Canada - is based in the city. It makes three brands of beer (Bucanero, 
Cristal and Mayabe) sold in convertible pesos. Near Holguín, the Villa 
El Quinque and the Villa El Cocal receive patients like Argentine soccer 
star Diego Maradona who was treated for his cocaine addiction there. The 
popular Playa Pesquero resort (Fishing Beach) is located on the coast north 
of Holguín city, about an hour's drive from the International Airport. 
In 2004, the municipality of Holguín had a population of 326,740.[3] With 
a total area of 666 km2 (257 sq mi),[2] it has a population density of 
490.6/km2 (1,271/sq mi). Holguín is served by Frank País Airport (HOG/MUHG), 
