The Hollywood Stars was a minor league baseball team that played in the 
Pacific Coast League during the early and mid 20th century. They were the 
arch-rivals of the other Los Angeles-based PCL team, the Los Angeles Angels. 
The first incarnation of the Hollywood Stars began its existence in 1903 
as the Sacramento Solons, a charter member of the Pacific Coast League. 
The team moved to Tacoma, Washington in 1904, where it won the pennant 
as the Tacoma Tigers. During the 1905 season, the team returned to Sacramento 
to finish out the season, moved to Fresno in 1906 to finish last as the 
Fresno Raisin Eaters, then left the PCL altogether. The Sacramento Solons 
rejoined the PCL in 1909, then moved to San Francisco during the 1914 season, 
finishing out the season as the San Francisco Missions. The team was sold 
to Utah businessman Bill "Hardpan" Lane and moved to Salt Lake City for 
the 1915 season. They played as the Salt Lake City Bees for the next eleven 
seasons until Lane moved the team to Los Angeles for the 1926 season. Originally 
they were known as the Hollywood Bees, but soon changed their name to the 
Hollywood Stars. The original Stars, though supposedly representing Hollywood, 
actually played their home games as tenants of the Los Angeles Angels at 
Wrigley Field in South Los Angeles. Though the Stars won pennants in 1929 
and 1930, they never developed much of a fan base, playing their home games 
miles from the glamorous Hollywood district. They were merely a team to 
watch when the Angels were on the road. Attendance had been quite good 
(by standards of that era) during their inaugural year in 1926, but tapered 
off after that, exacerbated by the Great Depression. When, after the 1935 
season, the Angels doubled the Stars' rent, Lane announced the Stars would 
move to San Diego for the 1936 season, to become the San Diego Padres. 
Los Angeles became a one-team city once more for the 1936 and 1937 seasons. 
The second incarnation of the Hollywood Stars joined the Pacific Coast 
League in 1909 as the Vernon Tigers. As the Tigers, the team won two PCL 
pennants (and finished first in another only to lose the postseason series) 
before moving to San Francisco for the 1926 season. The transplanted Tigers, 
now known as the Mission Reds or usually just "the Missions", foundered 
in San Francisco, failing to establish a rivalry with the existing San 
Francisco Seals. In 1938, Missions owner Herbert Fleishaker moved his team 
back to Los Angeles, and took the name of the departed Hollywood Stars. 
After one season the team was sold. In early December 1938[1] the team 
was purchased by attorney Victor Ford Collins and Robert H. Cobb, owner 
of the Brown Derby restaurants. They formed the Hollywood Baseball association 
and enlisted the financial support and enthusiasm of many stars and community 
leaders.[2] Celebrities who were stockholders and part-owners of the team 
included Lloyd Bacon, Gary Cooper, William Powell, Barbara Stanwyck, Robert 
Taylor,[3] George Raft, Charles Rogers, Raoul Walsh,[4] Roscoe Karns, William 
LeBaron,[5] Gene Autry (who later became owner of his own major league 
franchise), George Burns and Gracie Allen, Bing Crosby, Cecil B. DeMille, 
William Frawley, Gail Patrick (then married to Bob Cobb) and Harry Warner. 
"No one was permitted to invest any big money", wrote the Los Angeles Times, 
which described the Hollywood Stars as "a civic thing … plainly and simply, 
a Chamber of Commerce activity on the part of a group of people who want 
their little corner of the world to be better than all other corners."[2] 
The club was promoted as "the Hollywood Stars baseball team, owned by the 
Hollywood stars".[2] Moreover, the team actually played in the Hollywood 
area. In January 1939 it was announced that plans were under way to create 
a $200,000 ballpark seating 12,500 by May 1939.[4] Gilmore Field was opened 
in the Fairfax District adjacent to Hollywood. (The club played part of 
the 1939 season in nearby Gilmore Stadium, after having played at Wrigley 
Field during 1938.) Nicknamed the Twinks by the press,[3] the new Hollywood 
Stars caught on and became a very popular team, winning three pennants 
before 1958. They had successful affiliations with the Brooklyn Dodgers 
and Pittsburgh Pirates of Major League Baseball. In 1955, actress Jayne 
Mansfield was named Miss Hollywood Star. The Stars became genuine rivals 
of the Angels, and it was not uncommon for fights between the teams to 
break out during Angels-Stars games. In fact, on August 2, 1953, a brawl 
between the two teams lasted 30 minutes, broken up only when 50 riot police 
were sent to Gilmore Field by Chief of Police William Parker, who was at 
home watching the game on television when the fight started. The Columbia 
Broadcasting System, owner of Gilmore Field, announced plans to raze the 
facility to build a new headquarters—CBS Television City, as it became 
known—in 1952. In October 1957, the Brooklyn Dodgers confirmed their long-rumored 
move to Los Angeles for the 1958 season, which forced the Stars and the 
Angels to relocate. The Angels, who had been purchased by Dodgers owner 
Walter O'Malley prior to the 1957 season, became the Spokane Indians in 
1958. Having no interest in operating the Twinks anywhere but in Los Angeles, 
the ownership group led by Frank J. Kanne, Jr., was compelled to sell the 
team, which it did, to a group based in Salt Lake City. The Stars, in a 
sense, "returned" to Salt Lake City (whence the original Stars had moved 
in 1926) in 1958, becoming the Salt Lake Bees once more. Pioneers in broadcasting, 
the Hollywood Stars televised a home game in 1939 as an experiment, and 
became the first team to regularly broadcast home games in the late 1940s.[2] 
In the summer of 1951, Gail Patrick hosted Home Plate, a post-game interview 
show at Gilmore Field that immediately followed KTTV broadcasts of the 
Hollywood Stars home games. Patrick was assisted by sportswriter Braven 
Dyer.[6] The Twinks began the custom of dragging the infield during the 
fifth inning, creating an artificial break in the action hoping fans would 
run to the concessions stands.[2] The Stars adopted the use of batting 
helmets in 1949, at the mandate of Branch Rickey, who wanted to popularize 
the product as a safety precaution and a personal business venture.[2] 
Notable players for the Hollywood Stars include pitcher Rinaldo Ardizoia, 
who before his death in July 2015 was the oldest living former member of 
the New York Yankees. He moved to Los Angeles with the Mission Reds, and 
eventually joined the Hollywood Stars' starting rotation before being drafted 
by the Yankees in 1940. His large store of memorabilia included a rabbit's 
foot given to him by Gail Patrick.[7] A great many future Major League 
Baseball standouts played for the Hollywood Stars, among them Gus Bell, 
Bobby Bragan, Bobby Doerr, Gene Freese, Babe Herman, Dale Long, Bill Mazeroski, 
Bob Meusel, Lefty O'Doul, Mel Queen, Dick Stuart, Lee Walls and Gus Zernial. 
The team's managers included Bragan, Jimmy Dykes, Fred Haney and Charlie 
Root. The Stars were affiliated with the following major league teams: 
The Hollywood Stars were immortalized on the 1957 jazz album, Double Play! 
by André Previn and Russ Freeman. The baseball-themed album, with song 
titles like "Called On Account of Rain", "Batter Up", "Who's on First" 
and "In the Cellar Blues", features a model on the cover wearing a Hollywood 
