Holliston is a New England town in Middlesex County, Massachusetts, United 
States in the Greater Boston area. The population was 13,547 at the 2010 
census.[1] It is part of the Massachusetts region, located due west of 
Boston, that is known as the MetroWest. Holliston is the only town in Middlesex 
County that borders both Norfolk and Worcester counties. At the time of 
the earliest European settlements, where Holliston exists now was part 
of the territory of the Awassamog family of Natick (the first Nipmuc Praying 
Town), who also held authority over land near Waushakum Pond at Framingham 
and land near Annamasset at Mendon. In 1701, a large tract of land that 
included the west half of Holliston, eastern Milford and parts of Hopkinton 
and Ashland was given to the local Nipmucs in a land exchange with Sherborn. 
Their ownership of the tract was brief, as settlers purchased tracts of 
land there until all traces of Nipmuc presence disappeared. The Nipmuc 
village of Mucksquit (translation – “place of much grass”), located on 
the shore of Wennakeening (translation – “smile of the great spirit”) was 
near the site of the Morse family farm, today known as Lake Winthrop. The 
Morses, Sheffields, Marshalls and Bullards and many others followed Pout 
Lane (an old Native American foot-path, now partly modern day Rte 16 and 
Highland St., respectively) out to the new territory and settled along 
the path, thus forming a cluster of farms that would eventually become 
Holliston. John Eliot and Daniel Gookin (Christian missionaries) also followed 
the path in search of converts to Christianity and encouraged the Nipmucs 
to gather into villages, which made their task of finding them easier. 
Though not as famous as the Bay Path or the Old Connecticut Path, Pout 
Lane played a major role in the settlement of Holliston and other points 
southwest of Boston. Holliston, then part of Sherborn, was first settled 
by Europeans in 1659 by Massachusetts Bay Puritans. The town of Holliston 
was incorporated on December 3, 1724, by virtue of approval by the General 
Court petition requesting that "the western part of Sherborn be a Town." 
The name was taken in honor of Thomas Hollis of London, a benefactor of 
Harvard College. The first town meeting was held at the house of Timothy 
Leland on December 23, 1724, "at which five selectmen and all other required 
officers were chosen." The town has grown from a community of a few hundred 
residents setting aside ten pounds per year for public education to a community 
of over 13,000 with an annual budget of over $40 million including more 
than $23 million for a nationally recognized school system.[2] In "Holliston" 
by Images of America and the Holliston Historical Society, it is written: 
An article in a local newspaper[3] in 1894 heralded the charms of Holliston 
as the quintessential New England village, which, the story said, sprang 
into existence solely due to the talent of its people. Perhaps this is 
so, for there was no great moment in history to mark the founding of this 
town. Holliston has become a reflection of the accomplishments of the inhabitants 
of this place for more than three hundred years, and although the town 
had to admit to no magnitude of greatness to rival Boston, Lexington, or 
Concord, Holliston did define itself as a home to heroes of the commonplace. 
The feature story of 1894 said: "Many cities have sprung into existence 
because of their advantageous situations. The prosperity of Holliston is 
solely due to the genius of its people. A visit to such places stirs the 
blood, quickens the pulse and produces an enthusiastic desire to have a 
share in the developing good times. Massachusetts may be Whittier's land, 
and the region from Marblehead to Amesbury may be full of legendary and 
spectral armies, and witchdom, and Buddha knows what, but the imaginative 
and the poetical must submit to the rights of the commonplace. The commonplace 
is honeycombed with the uncommon heroisms of the patient, everyday existence 
that make up the life of such plucky towns as Holliston. These are the 
things the average man is most interested in. Average life is but a portfolio 
of views of struggles with the commonplaces of everyday existence" (Holliston 
1997). The town was once the largest producer of shoes in the United States.[4] 
Although many of the shoe factories have been lost by fires and other problems, 
the largest company, the Goodwill Shoe Company, still has remaining empty 
factories on Water Street, many of which are now used as artists' studios. 
Competition from overseas factories is largely to blame for the loss of 
the industry.[citation needed] Holliston's Mudville neighborhood claims 
to be the location of the 1888 Ernest Lawrence Thayer poem, "Casey at the 
Bat", and maintains an ongoing rivalry with Stockton, California, which 
makes the same claim regarding the poem's setting. On the north side of 
Route 16 heading into Milford sits a large rock, some 20 ft (6.1 m) in 
length, 10 ft (3.0 m) in width, 6 ft (1.8 m) thick, and weighing easily 
over 5 tons (4.5 metric tons). The rock appears to be balanced precariously 
on an outcrop of granite ledge. On November 6, 1789, General George Washington 
led his entourage from Boston to New York via this route. He recalled in 
his diary the road in Holliston that would eventually be honored with his 
name, "an indifferent road, diversified by good and bad land, cultivated 
and in woods, some high barren, others low, wet and piney." Legend has 
it that, as they came across this "Balancing Rock," they took the opportunity 
to have some fun and tried their best to tip over the rock. It is said 
that the General himself, quite amused at the spectacle, added his muscle 
in an attempt to push the rock off its natural pedestal. Their efforts 
— and those of many others over the years — were to no avail as Balancing 
Rock still stands today. The rock is on the property of the Balancing Rock 
development, a community for "active" adults over the age of 55.[5] Once 
populated by factories and farms up until the latter part of the nineteenth 
century, Holliston has now transformed itself into a bedroom community 
for Boston and the Route 128 and Route 495 technology belts. Holliston 
is known[by whom?] for its quaint Town Center with its Fiske's General 
Store, the Superette, numerous antique shops and boutiques, Carnegie public 
library, town hall, and white-steepled churches. Numerous white antique 
colonial, Greek revival, and Victorian homes with well-manicured lawns 
dot the landscape along Washington Street (Massachusetts Route 16), with 
Holliston Center and the Town Green wedged in between—a scene reminiscent 
of the distinctive New England character. The average work commute for 
Holliston residents, however, is quite long. On average, people spend 32.25 
minutes each day getting to work, which is significantly higher than the 
national average.[citation needed] Being a small town, Holliston does not 
have a public transit system that can be used by locals to get to and from 
work. Residents who want to take public transportation into Boston must 
drive to one of the commuter rail stations in Ashland, Natick, Framingham, 
or Franklin. The town is the setting for the popular FEARnet series "Holliston"[6] 
According to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area 
of 19.0 square miles (49 km2), of which 18.7 square miles (48 km2) is land 
and 0.3 square miles (0.78 km2) is water. Water covers 1.73% of the town's 
total area. The Charles River passes near the southern region of town. 
It is located 21.6 mi (34.8 km) west of Boston and is within short driving 
distance of Interstate 495 and the Massachusetts Turnpike (part of Interstate 
90). Massachusetts Route 16 and Massachusetts Route 126 pass through the 
town. With a history spanning nearly three centuries, Holliston has many 
smaller divisions within its borders with names tied to a host of historic 
and cultural origins. Although the town is only served by one post-office 
today, several of its historic villages originated from previous post offices 
as well as train stops on the Boston and Albany Railroad's Milford line. 
Today the town retains two official historic districts, both of which contain 
smaller landmark areas of historic significance. There are several additional 
residential developments and other areas of Holliston which retain their 
own colloquial names, however at this time the following are the only areas 
officially recognized as historic by the town and the U.S. Geologic Survey. 
Holliston is located in eastern Massachusetts, bordered by: As of the census[18] 
of 2000, there were 13,801 people, 4,795 households, and 3,842 families 
residing in the town. The population density was 737.8 people per square 
mile (284.8/km²). There were 4,868 housing units at an average density 
of 260.2 per square mile (100.5/km²). The racial makeup of the town was 
96.7% White, 0.9% African American, 0.9% Native American, 1.2% Asian, 0.3% 
from other races, and 0.8% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of 
any race were 1.4% of the population. Ancestries of Holliston residents 
are reported to be Irish (29.4%), Italian (18.3%), English (17.8%), German 
(9.7%), French (5.6%), and Polish (5.6%). There were 4,795 households out 
of which 44.2% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 70.2% 
were married couples living together, 7.5% had a female householder with 
no husband present, and 19.9% were non-families. 16.4% of all households 
were made up of individuals and 6.0% had someone living alone who was 65 
years of age or older. The average household size was 2.87 and the average 
family size was 3.25. In the town the population was spread out with 30.0% 
under the age of 18, 4.8% from 18 to 24, 29.4% from 25 to 44, 26.9% from 
45 to 64, and 8.9% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 
38.2 years. For every 100 females there were 96.3 males. For every 100 
females age 18 and over, there were 91.8 males. In 2000, the median income 
for a household in the town was $78,092, and the median income for a family 
was $84,878. Males had a median income of $48,473 versus $36,405 for females. 
The per capita income for the town was $32,116. As of the census of 2000, 
about 1.5% of families and 2.4% of the population were below the poverty 
line, including 2.9% of those under age 18 and 9.5% of those age 65 or 
over. In 2009, 79% of Holliston residents age 25 and over held bachelor's 
degrees or higher and 35.8% held graduate or professional degrees.[19] 
Holliston retains its original open town meeting form of government, in 
which registered voters act as the town's legislature. The town's day-to-day 
affairs are overseen by an elected Board of Selectmen with a Town Administrator. 
The Town of Holliston has a public school system which serves students 
from kindergarten through twelfth grade. Schools in the district include 
two elementary schools, a middle school and a high school. Public schools 
include: Sam Placentino Elementary School, Fred W. Miller Elementary School, 
Robert H. Adams Middle School, and Holliston High School. The Holliston 
public school system also maintains a Montessori and French Immersion program 
that students can enroll in upon entering kindergarten. Within Holliston 
there are five registered Superfund sites. Three of these sites are still 
monitored by CERCLIS (Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, 
and Liability Information System).[20] [20][21] An archived status indicates 
that the site has been cleaned, requires no further investigation, and 
poses little to no threat. A Non-NPL status indicates the sites are not 
considered to be the most hazardous by the EPA and are therefore not included 
in the NPL, but the clean-up of the site has not been completed. Non-NPL 
sites are still monitored by CERCLIS and are considered open or active 
sites. An NPL status indicates that the EPA considers the site to pose 
serious health and environmental risks. NPL sites are considered to be 
the most hazardous sites in the nation. Established in 1967, “the site 
was an Industrial Chemical Distributor for the textile, paper, rubber, 
metals and plastics industries.”[22] In the early 1990s the company filed 
for bankruptcy and the facility closed. The site is 8.6 acres of developed 
and undeveloped land which consist of two buildings. The buildings are 
being considered for demolition. According to the Mass DEP Axton Cross 
is considered to be a Disposal Site. The chemicals recorded by the Mass 
DEP were oil and other unknown hazardous materials. According to locals, 
“Axton-Cross polluted the property it owned and the land surrounding it 
and the wildlife with toxic chemicals.”[23] According to the EPA’s last 
inspection (08/08/1995), the water was not impaired, but the Ozone is considered 
to be a Non-Attainment Area. No further data was recorded.[24] In 1966 
a gravel mining permit for the property was granted to a Charles Bird. 
Mining of the land continued into the late 1970s. Through the late 1960s 
to early 1980’s the mined areas were filled with building debris and commercial 
solid waste. The property was also used for tire stockpiling.[25] The site 
is approximately 53 acres. The land is being considered for the construction 
of residential housing.[26] Since then the Mass DEP and EPA have ordered 
remedial activities which included the removal of: potential contaminants, 
solid waste, construction debris, tires, and over 70 tons of impacted soils. 
The groundwater plume from the site contains low levels of a chemical called 
TCE. Due to the low and naturally declining levels (due to the removal 
of the source) the Mass DEP to conclude that no further water clean-up 
is required.[26] Other chemicals recorded by the Mass DEP were VOCs. According 
to the EPA’s inspection the Ozone is considered to be a Non-Attainment 
Area. No further data was recorded.[27] Founded in 1968, Photofabrication 
Engineering, Inc. (PEI) manufactures precision metal parts for computers 
and semiconductors. The company moved from Holliston to Milford, MA in 
1984. The newer facility has helped PEI become an environmentally cleaner 
manufacturer.[28] Chemicals recorded by the Mass DEP were chlorinated solvents, 
metals, and wastewater discharge. The Mass DEP considers the site to be 
in phase IV of V. In this phase a cleanup plan is implemented. [7] According 
to the EPA’s inspection, the water was not impaired, but the Ozone is considered 
to be a Non-Attainment Area. No further data was recorded.[29] Refer also 
to Town of Holliston, Parks and Recreation for information on use. Annual 
events include Memorial Day Parade and Veterans Lunch, Celebrate Holliston 
Day, Lions Carnival and Triathlon, Baseball Parade, A Taste of Holliston, 
Downtown Holiday Stroll, Summer Concerts at Goodwill Park, Historical Society 
Fairs, Council on Aging Fall Fair and an abundance of other fairs and festivals 
