Holman Stadium is a baseball stadium in Vero Beach, Florida, built in 1953 
from an abandoned Naval base, to accommodate spring training for the Brooklyn 
Dodgers as part of a complex now called Historic Dodgertown. In addition 
to the Dodgers' spring games, it was also the home of the Vero Beach Devil 
Rays, previously the Vero Beach Dodgers, of the Florida State League, through 
the 2008 season. Official seating capacity is 6,500. The then-Brooklyn 
Dodgers were one of the first major league baseball teams to conduct spring 
training in Florida, establishing their operations in this quiet beachside 
town in 1948. Previously an abandoned Naval base, the complex was transformed 
for the Dodgers. Historic Dodgertown and Holman Stadium served as their 
spring home for more than 60 years. In recent decades, Arizona has established 
itself alongside Florida as the second major center for spring baseball, 
and the Dodgers were the last western team to still conduct its spring 
training in Florida.[2] In 2001, the Dodgers seriously considered moving 
their spring training operations to Arizona, but the city of Vero Beach 
persuaded them to stay by purchasing the Historic Dodgertown complex from 
the team and leasing it back for a nominal $1 per year. In 2006, the Dodgers 
again received offers from several Arizona cities, attempting to persuade 
them to move. Ultimately, the offers were too lucrative to overcome the 
burden of having to reimburse Vero Beach for purchasing the complex. With 
the Camelback Ranch opening in Glendale in 2009, the Dodgers joined the 
Chicago White Sox to share the new facility. The Dodgers' last spring training 
game in Vero Beach was on March 17, 2008. Holman is unique for its open-air 
dugouts that are literally dug out along the sides of the field. These 
may have been the inspiration for the dugouts in Johnny Hart's B.C. comic 
strip. "This place is so different from any other park", states George 
Betscha, a batboy at Dodgertown from 2005–2008. "There is so much history 
here and you can feel it when you walk around." In addition to baseball, 
the Holman Stadium complex and conference center has hosted training sessions 
by the New Orleans Saints.[3] The Saints visited Dodgertown for training 
camps through 1984. The Green Bay Packers,[4] the Cleveland Browns,[5] 
the Buffalo Bills,[6] the New England Patriots,[7] the Kansas City Chiefs,[8] 
the Philadelphia Eagles,[9] and the college teams of the Miami Hurricanes,[10] 
the Ohio State Buckeyes[11] and the University of South Florida Bulls.[12] 
Holman Stadium has also played host to some international teams such as 
the Yomiuri Giants,[13] the Chunichi Dragons,[14] the Osaka Buffaloes (Japan),[15] 
the Samsung Lions who also returned for visits in 1992, 1993, 1995 and 
1997.[16] the LG Twins,[17] the SK Wyverns,[18] teams from Korea. The Sinon 
Bulls Taiwanese team,[19] the Nigeria national baseball team and the Moscow 
Red Devils.[20] Including on March 31, 1961 at 7:30 p.m., famed evangelist 
Dr. Billy Graham held a Good Friday service at Holman Stadium during his 
Florida Crusades, joined by a Crusade choir of locals numbering nearly 
400.[21] The Baltimore Orioles were recruited to move up to Vero Beach 
in 2010, from their spring home in Fort Lauderdale, but after failing to 
reach an agreement, the City of Vero Beach rescinded its offer. The city 
is exploring other options outside of Major League Baseball spring training. 
Reports surfaced in 2009 that the Major League Baseball Players Association 
was considering Holman Stadium as an alternate training site for players 
who entered the spring as unsigned free agents. However, the MLBPA decided 
not to go forward with the plan. As of 2015, nearby Dodgertown Elementary 
School has not changed its name. The United Football League expressed an 
early interest in using the Historic Dodgertown facility as a training 
and practice grounds, but no agreement to do so was ever reached. During 
the final (2012) season, each team utilized a training site in or near 
its home market. Dodgertown became the Vero Beach Sports Village in 2010. 
It is now used for sports tournaments including baseball and football tournaments, 
concerts and other special events. In 2013, former Dodger owner Peter O'Malley 
and current Dodger ownership, headed by President Stan Kasten, reached 
agreement to re-brand Vero Beach Sports Village under the name Historic 
Dodgertown.[22] Historic Dodgertown now holds year round youth sports tournaments 
in baseball, soccer, lacrosse, and Minor League Baseball's Umpire Training 
