The Holy Cross Crusaders are the athletic teams representing the College 
of the Holy Cross. They compete in NCAA Division I as members of the Patriot 
League. The men's ice hockey team competes in Atlantic Hockey Association 
and women's ice hockey in the Division III New England Hockey Conference. 
Of its 25 varsity teams, Holy Cross supports twelve men's and thirteen 
women's[2] The carrying of 23 Division I varsity programs gives Holy Cross 
the largest ratio of teams-per-enrollment in the country. Holy Cross's 
athletic teams for both men and women are known as the Crusaders. It is 
a founding member of the Patriot League, and boasts that one-quarter of 
its student body participates in its varsity athletic programs. Principal 
facilities include Fitton Field for football (capacity: 23,500), Hart Recreation 
Center for basketball (3,600) and ice hockey (1,400), Linda Johnson Smith 
Soccer Stadium (1,320), and Smith Wellness Center, located inside the Hart 
Center. The College claims three national championships: the 1947 NCAA 
Tournament and 1954 National Invitation Tournament for men's basketball, 
and the NCAA 1952 College World Series for baseball. It is reported that 
the name "Crusader" was first associated with Holy Cross in 1884 at an 
alumni banquet in Boston, where an engraved Crusader mounted on an armored 
horse appeared at the head of the menu.[3] The name was rediscovered by 
Stanley Woodward, a sports reporter for the Boston Herald, when he used 
the term "Crusader" to describe the Holy Cross baseball team in a story 
written in 1925. The name appealed to the Holy Cross student body, which 
held a vote later in that year to decide whether this cognomen or one of 
the other two currently in use – "Chiefs" and "Sagamores"- would be adopted. 
On October 6, 1925, The Tomahawk, an earlier name of the student newspaper, 
reported that the results of the ballot were: Crusaders 143, Chiefs 17, 
Sagamores 7.[3] Owing to the Post-9/11 controversy over the “Crusaders” 
nickname,[4] only Holy Cross and Valparaiso University maintain Crusaders 
at the NCAA Division I level. The school color is royal purple.[5] There 
are two theories of how Holy Cross chose purple as its official color. 
One suggests it was derived from the royal purple used by King Constantine 
the Great (born about 275 A.D., died in 337 AD) as displayed on his labarum 
(military standard) and on those of later Christian emperors of Rome.[3] 
The other version is attributed to Walter J. Connors, an 1887 graduate, 
and was printed in the October 1940 issue of the Alumnus. According to 
the account, there was a disagreement during the 1870s between Holy Cross 
students from Massachusetts and Connecticut concerning the schools' baseball 
uniform colors. Those from Massachusetts purportedly favored the crimson 
of Harvard, while those from Connecticut favored the deep blue of Yale. 
Legend has it that a fellow student with a sense of diplomacy resolved 
the dispute in the chemistry lab, where he mixed copper sulphate (blue) 
with iron oxide (red) to produce the color of deep purple.[3] The men's 
baseball team won the NCAA National Championship 1952. The baseball team 
of Holy Cross remains the only team from the northeastern part of the United 
States to have won the College World Series.[6] The Crusaders also made 
the College World Series in 1958, 1962, and 1963. In the last two of these 
seasons, the team featured pitcher Dick Joyce, who briefly made the major 
leagues, and third baseman John Peterman, who after a short minor-league 
career went on to become a successful entrepreneur who was parodied on 
Seinfeld. The women's basketball team has also made several appearances 
in the postseason including 12 trips to the NCAA Tournament as well as 
one appearance in both the Women's National Invitation Tournament and the 
Women's Basketball Invitational. They are 1-12 in the NCAA Tournament with 
the lone win coming in 1991 as an upset over the 6th seeded Maryland. This 
is the only victory in the NCAA Tournament for any team from the Patriot 
League. They are 0-1 in the WNIT and 1-1 in the WBI having defeated the 
University of New Hampshire in 2012. 6 time Patriot League Coach of the 
Year Bill Gibbons recorded his 500th win early in the 2011–2012 campaign. 
On March 24, 2006, the Holy Cross men's hockey team made history by defeating 
the Golden Gophers of the University of Minnesota in the first round of 
the NCAA Division I Tournament by the score of 4–3, in overtime. Coined 
as one of the biggest upsets in NCAA ice hockey history, never since the 
NCAA tourney expanded to sixteen teams had a sixteen seed beat a number 
one seed until again in 2015 when the 16th seeded RIT Tigers defeated the 
first seeded Minnesota State Mavericks by a score of 2–1.[7] In its history, 
the Holy Cross ice hockey program has seen two NCAA appearances, and has 
won the Atlantic Hockey and MAAC three times (1999, 2004, 2006).[8] The 
ice hockey program competes in the Atlantic Hockey Association in men's 
hockey and the Division III ECAC East division in women's ice hockey. In 
2006, the women's lacrosse team made its first NCAA Tournament appearance, 
defeating Colgate in the Patriot League championship game prior to beating 
LeMoyne in the NCAA play-in game.[9] In addition, the Holy Cross rowing 
teams, both men and women, have enjoyed success over the years. Key highlights 
include the women's team winning the ECAC National Championship in 2002, 
and the men's team being ranked within the national top 20 every season 
beginning in 2004. In 2000 the Women's Varsity Lightweight 8 won a New 
England championship. As of 2007, the men's crew is the reigning Patriot 
League Champion and has won the league championship several times (2001,2002,2003, 
and 2005). Similarly, the women's team has enjoyed similar success within 
the conference and won continuous league championships from 1998 to 2003. 
Both teams compete in the Patriot League, with the women's team also holding 
membership in the New England Rowing Conference (NERC), and the Eastern 
College Athletic Conference. In 2007, the men's crew was granted a two-year 
provisional acceptance into the Eastern Association of Rowing Colleges 
(EARC), which is composed of the traditional Ivy League schools plus other 
select universities.[10] The Men's soccer program was cited by the NCAA 
for committing "major" violations under former head coach Elvis Comrie 
over a period of time covering a number of years. According to the NCAA, 
more than 300 impermissible phone calls were made to several prospective 
student-athletes by Comrie, many before the contact period and others that 
exceeded weekly limits. The committee also found that the school failed 
to have adequate systems in place to monitor recruiting phone calls made 
by former coach Elvis Comrie. Comrie resigned at the end of the 2008 season 
after 18 years at Holy Cross. Holy Cross self-reported the violations to 
the NCAA and HC's self-imposed penalties for the violations included recruiting 
restrictions and reduction of scholarships. "We pride ourselves on doing 
athletics the right way," Holy Cross director of athletics Dick Regan said, 
"so this is very disappointing. It is an anathema. We feel we handled it 
the right way, we paid the price, and we’re moving forward." The NCAA considered 
the impermissible phone calls as major violations, but did not ban the 
Crusaders from postseason play. Historically, Holy Cross' major rival has 
been the Eagles of Boston College, especially in football. In 1896, Holy 
Cross and Boston College played the first football game between the two 
schools starting one of the most storied rivalries in college football.[citation 
needed] For much of the early to mid 20th century, BC and The Cross drew 
some of New England's largest sports crowds. To accommodate larger crowds, 
the Holy Cross game was routinely held at larger venues off campus, with 
the 1916 matchup taking place at the newly constructed Fenway Park. A record 
54,000 attended the 1922 game at Braves Field, home of the Boston Braves 
baseball team. On November 28, 1942, Holy Cross beat BC in a huge upset 
by a score of 55-12, a result that proved fortunate for the losing Eagles. 
The BC team had booked their victory party for a popular Boston nightclub, 
but canceled after the upset loss. As a result, the Eagles were not among 
the nearly 500 who died or the hundreds more who were injured when the 
nightclub caught fire that night. By the late 1970s the Holy Cross game 
had become more of a tradition than a rivalry, as Holy Cross football began 
to cease to be a major power. By 1980, the game was no longer part of the 
student ticket package, and was mostly attended by alumni. In 1986 Holy 
Cross changed the direction of its football program, joining the Division 
1-AA Patriot League, and terminated the series. BC had won 17 of the last 
20 games. The last basketball game between the two schools was played on 
January 17, 2006, a 63-53 win for Boston College at Worcester's DCU Center. 
Later that year, BC's athletic director, Gene DeFilippo, caused a minor 
controversy when he announced that the school would not schedule any more 
basketball games against Holy Cross, claiming that it was not beneficial 
for BC.[11] The two schools renewed their rivalry in basketball on November 
22, 2010 as part of the Jesuit Basketball Spotlight, a national effort 
to bring attention to Jesuit education. In a game held at BC's Conte Forum, 
Boston College posted a 69-56 victory, the Eagles' 16th in their last 17 
games against Holy Cross.[12] On November 18, 2011, the Crusaders defeated 
the Eagles 86-64 in Worcester. The Holy Cross Crusaders have a group of 
loyal fans, sometimes called the "Mount St. James Faithful" or the "Hart 
Center Faithful", the nickname coming from the athletic stadium at The 
