"Holy cow!" (and similar) is an exclamation of surprise used mostly in 
the United States, Canada, Australia and England. It is a minced oath or 
euphemism for "Holy Christ!" Holy Cow! dates to at least 1905.[1] The earliest 
known appearance of the phrase was in a tongue-in-cheek letter to the editor: 
"A lover of the cow writes to this column to protest against a certain 
variety of Hindu oath having to do with the vain use of the name of the 
milk producer. These profane exclamations, "holy cow!" and, "By the stomach 
of the eternal cow!"" [2] The phrase was used by baseball players at least 
as early as 1913[3] and probably much earlier.[4] The phrase appears to 
have been adopted as a means to avoid penalties for using obscene or indecent 
language and may have been based on a general awareness of the holiness 
of cows in some religious traditions.[5] From the Dictionary of American 
Slang (1960):[6] Expressions such as "Holy buckets!", "Holy underwear!", 
etc. also employ a play-on-words, "holy" implying "riddled with holes". 
Paul Beale (1985), however, in revising Eric Partridge's A Dictionary of 
Catch Phrases: British and American, from the Sixteenth Century to the 
Present Day cites a different origin:[7] "Holy cow!" became associated 
with several baseball broadcasters. Harry Caray, who was the broadcaster 
for the St. Louis Cardinals (1945-1969), Oakland Athletics (1970), Chicago 
White Sox (1971-1981), and Chicago Cubs (1982-1997), began using it early 
in his career, in order to prevent himself from lapsing into vulgarity.[8] 
New York Yankees shortstop and announcer Phil Rizzuto was also well known 
for the phrase; when the Yankees honored him following his retirement, 
the ceremony included a real cow with a halo prop on its head. 1950s Milwaukee 
Braves broadcaster Earl Gillespie was also known for this expression. The 
phrase may have originated with (and certainly was introduced to the baseball 
lexicon by) reporter and broadcaster Halsey Hall, who worked in Minneapolis 
from 1919 until his death in 1977. According to Paul Dickson, New Orleans 
radio announcer Jack Holiday also used the phrase on broadcasts of the 
minor-league New Orleans Pelicans in the 1930s.[9] The cartoon strip Common 
Grounds was originally titled Holey Crullers, a play on this catchphrase. 
