In team sports, the term home advantage – also called home ground, home 
field, home field advantage, home court, or home ice advantage – describes 
the benefit that the home team is said to gain over the visiting team. 
This benefit has been attributed to psychological effects supporting fans 
have on the competitors or referees; to psychological or physiological 
advantages of playing near home in familiar; to the disadvantages away 
teams suffer from changing time zones or climates, or from the rigors of 
travel; and, in some sports, to specific rules that favor the home team 
directly or indirectly. In baseball, in particular, the difference may 
also be the result of the home team having been assembled to take advantage 
of the idiosyncrasies of the home ballpark, such as the distances to the 
outfield walls; most other sports are played in standardized venues. The 
term is also widely used in "best-of" playoff formats (e.g., best-of-seven) 
as being given to the team that is scheduled to play one more game at home 
than their opponent if all necessary games are played. In many sports, 
such designations may also apply to games played at a neutral site; as 
the rules of various sports make different provisions for home and visiting 
teams. In baseball, for instance, the team designated the home team bats 
second in each inning, whereas the "visiting" team bats first. In most 
team sports, the home or hosting team is considered to have a significant 
advantage over the visitors. Due to this, many important games (such as 
playoff or elimination matches) in many sports have special rules for determining 
what match is played where. In association football, matches with two legs, 
one game played in each team's "home", are common. It is also common to 
hold important games at a neutral site. In many team sports in North America 
(including baseball, basketball, and ice hockey), playoff series are often 
held with a nearly equal number of games at each team's site. However, 
as it is usually beneficial to have an odd number of matches in a series 
(to prevent ties), the final home game is often awarded to the team that 
had the most success over the regular season. An example is UEFA Champions 
League and UEFA Europa League home and away legs, with weaker teams often 
beating the favourites when playing at home. The World Cup victories of 
Uruguay (1930), Italy (1934), England (1966), Germany (1974), Argentina 
(1978) and France (1998) are all in part attributed to the fact that the 
World Cup was held in the winner's country. A 2006 study by The Times found 
that in the English Premiership, a home team can be expected to score 37.29% 
more goals than the away team, though this changes depending on the quality 
of the teams involved. Others have suggested that the increase in British 
medals during the 2012 Olympics may have been impacted by home court advantage.[1] 
(However, having home court did not help Canada at the 1976 Montreal Olympics, 
the only Summer Games at which the hosting country failed to win a single 
gold medal.) The strength of the home advantage varies for different sports, 
regions, seasons, and divisions. For all sports, it seems to be strongest 
in the early period after the creation of a new league. The effect seems 
to have become somewhat weaker in some sports in recent decades.[2] Adams 
& Kupper (1994) described home-field advantage as an expertise deficiency. 
They demonstrated that, in theory and in practice, home-field advantage 
decreases as superiority of performance increases. They also showed that 
home-field advantage is not applicable for no-hit major league baseball 
games for pitchers who either replicated performance by winning two or 
more no-hitters or amassed a large number of career wins. Their general 
finding was that home-field advantage is a metric for the inability to 
maintain performance independent of environment and that this metric is 
inversely related to variables of expertise.[clarification needed] In recognition 
of the difficulty in winning away matches, cup competitions in association 
football often invoke the away goals rule. Away goals can also sometimes 
be used to separate teams level on points and goal difference in league 
competitions. There are many causes that attribute to home advantage, such 
as crowd involvement, travel considerations, and environmental factors. 
The most commonly cited factors of home advantage are usually factors which 
are difficult to measure, and thus even their existence is debated. Most 
of these are psychological in nature: the home teams are familiar with 
the playing venue; they can lodge in their homes rather than in a hotel, 
and have less far to travel before the game; and they have the psychological 
support of the home fans. Other factors, however, are easier to detect 
and can have noticeable effects on the outcome of the game. In American 
football, for instance, the crowd often makes as much noise as it can when 
the visiting team is about to run a play. This can make it very difficult 
for the visiting team's quarterback to call audible play changes, or for 
any player to hear the snap count. In contrast, the crowd is often quiet 
while the home team is on offense, and that enables the quarterback to 
use the hard count intended to draw the defense offsides as the defense 
can hear the hard count. In basketball, when a visiting player is making 
a free throw, home fans behind the backboard typically wave their arms 
or other objects in an attempt to break the visiting player's focus on 
making the shot. Environmental factors such as weather and altitude are 
easy to measure, yet their effects are debatable, as both teams have to 
play in the same conditions; but the home team may be more acclimated to 
local conditions with difficult environments, such as extremely warm or 
cold weather, or high altitude (such as the case of Denver teams, as well 
as the Mexico national football team, many of whose home matches are played 
in Mexico City). The stadium or arena will typically be filled with home 
supporters, who are sometimes described as being as valuable as an extra 
player for the home team. The home fans can sometimes create a psychological 
lift by cheering loudly for their team when good things happen in the game. 
The home crowd can also intimidate visiting players by booing, whistling, 
or heckling. Generally the home fans vastly outnumber the visiting team's 
supporters. While some visiting fans may travel to attend the game, home 
team fans will generally have better access to tickets and easier transport 
to the event, thus in most cases they outnumber the visitors' fans (although 
in local derbies and crosstown rivalries this may not always be the case). 
In some sports, such as association football, sections of the stadium will 
be reserved for supporters of one team or the other (to prevent fan violence) 
but the home team's fans will have the bulk of the seating available to 
them. In addition, stadium/arena light shows, sound effects, fireworks, 
cheerleaders, and other means to enliven the crowd will be in support of 
the home team. Stadium announcers in many sports will emphasize the home 
team's goals and lineup to excite the crowd. Ryan Boyko, a research assistant 
in the Department of Psychology in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences at 
Harvard University, studied 5,000 English Premier League games from 1992 
to 2006, to discern any officiating bias and the influence of home crowds. 
The data was published in the Journal of Sports Sciences and suggested 
that for every additional 10,000 people attending, home team advantage 
increased by 0.1 goals. Additionally, his study proved what many football 
fans already suspect: that home teams are likely to be awarded more penalty 
kicks, but crucially, this is more likely with inexperienced referees. 
So, consideration of referee profiles should clearly be a refinement for 
home field advantage statistics.[3] Further, home players can be accustomed 
to peculiar environmental conditions of their home area. The city of Denver, 
being a mile (1609 m) above sea level, has thinner air, enough so that 
it affects the stamina of athletes whose bodies are not used to it. Although 
baseball is less aerobically demanding than many other sports, high altitude 
affects that sport's game play in several important ways. Denver's combination 
of altitude and a semi-arid climate (the city averages only about 16 in/400 mm 
precipitation annually) allows fly balls to travel about 10% farther than 
at sea level, and also slightly reduces the ability of a pitcher to throw 
an effective breaking ball. The low humidity also causes baseballs to dry 
out, making it harder for pitchers to grip them and further reducing their 
ability to throw breaking balls. Consequently, the Colorado Rockies have 
a very large home advantage, with a 30% better home than away record. This 
anomaly has been countered with Colorado's innovative use of humidors to 
keep the baseballs from drying out. [1] Denver's altitude advantage has 
also come into play in gridiron football; the longest field goal in National 
Football League history took place in Denver, as did the longest recorded 
punt. The national association football team of Bolivia also enjoys the 
advantage of playing at high altitude: at home during World Cup qualifiers 
at the even more extreme 3,600 m (11,800 ft) altitude of La Paz they have 
even been known to beat Brazil, a team regularly ranked number one in the 
FIFA World Rankings. More recently, Bolivia beat Argentina, who were ranked 
sixth in the world, 6–1 on April 1, 2009, Argentina's heaviest defeat since 
1958.[4] In cricket, the condition of the pitch and the behaviour of the 
ball when it bounces off the pitch varies significantly in different parts 
of the world, and consequently the players on the visiting team must adjust 
to the ball behaving in an unfamiliar way to be successful on foreign surfaces; 
additionally, the home team has the right to adjust the preparation of 
its pitches in a manner which specifically exacerbates its own strengths 
or its opponent's weaknesses.[5] The weather can also play a major factor. 
For example, the February average temperature minimum in Tel Aviv, Israel 
is 50 °F (10 °C), while the average at the same time in Kazan, Russia is 
10 °F (−12 °C), with snow being common. This means that when Rubin Kazan 
played at home to Hapoel Tel Aviv in the 2009-10 UEFA Europa League, Hapoel 
needed to acclimatize and were therefore at a disadvantage. Hapoel duly 
lost the match 3-0. This advantage, however, can also be a disadvantage 
to the home team, as weather conditions can impede the home team as much 
as the visitors: the Buffalo Bills, whose home stadium (New Era Field) 
is subject to high and unpredictable winds and lake-effect snow in the 
late fall and early winter, regularly suffer large numbers of injuries 
late in the season. Sometimes the unique attributes of a stadium create 
a home-field advantage. The unique off-white Teflon-coated roof of the 
Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome trapped and reflected noise to such an extent 
that it was distracting or even harmful. This, combined with the color 
of the roof, caused opposing baseball players to commit more errors in 
the Dome than in other ballparks. While this is no longer an issue for 
opponents of the Minnesota Twins with that team's 2010 move to the open-air 
Target Field, it remained important to the many college baseball teams 
that played games in the Dome until its late 2013 closing. The parquet 
floor at the Boston Celtics' former home of Boston Garden contained many 
defects, which were said to give the Celtics, who were more likely to be 
familiar with the playing surface, an advantage. During the 1985–1986 season, 
the Larry Bird-led Celtics posted a home court record of 40-1; this record 
still stands in the NBA. Memorial Gymnasium, the venue for men's and women's 
basketball at Vanderbilt University, was built in 1952 with the team benches 
at the ends of the court instead of along one of the sidelines, a setup 
that was not unusual at the time. However, the configuration is now unique 
in U.S. major-college sports, and has been said to give Vandy an edge because 
opposing coaches are not used to directing their teams from the baseline. 
Cherry Hill Arena, a New Jersey-based arena in the southern suburbs of 
Philadelphia, had a number of idiosyncrasies that its home teams used to 
their advantage but earned the arena an extremely poor reputation, including 
a slanted ice surface that forced opponents to skate the majority of the 
game uphill and lack of showers for the visiting team. Sports Illustrated, 
in a 17 January 2011 article, reported that home crowds, rigor of travel 
for visiting teams, scheduling, and unique home field characteristics, 
were not factors in giving home teams an advantage. The journal concluded 
that it was favorable treatment by game officials and referees that conferred 
advantages on home teams. They stated that sports officials are unwittingly 
and psychologically influenced by home crowds and the influence is significant 
enough to effect the outcomes of sporting events in favor of the home team.[6] 
Other research has found that crowd support, travel fatigue, geographical 
distance, pitch familiarity, and referee bias do not have a strong effect 
when each factor is considered alone suggesting that it is the combination 
of several different factors that creates the overall home advantage effect. 
An evolutionary psychology explanation for the home advantage effect refers 
to observed behavioral and physiological responses in animals when they 
are defending their home territory against intruders. This causes a rise 
in aggression and testosterone levels in the defenders. A similar effect 
has been observed in football with testosterone levels being significantly 
higher in home games than in away games. Goalkeepers, the last line of 
defense, have particularly strong testosterone changes when playing against 
a bitter rival as compared to a training season. How testosterone may influence 
results is unclear but may include cognitive effects such as motivation 
and physiological effects such as reaction time.[2] An extreme example 
of home advantage was the 2013 Nigeria Premier League; each of the 20 teams 
lost at most 3 of 19 home matches and won at most 3 of 19 away matches. 
Paul Doyle ascribed this to visiting teams' facing "violent crowds, questionable 
refereeing and [...] [a]rriving just before kick-off after long road trips, 
often on hazardous surfaces".[7] In ice hockey, there are at least three 
distinct rule-related advantages for the home team. The first is referred 
to as "last change", where during stoppages of play, the home team is allowed 
to make player substitutions after the visiting team does. This allows 
the home team to obtain favorable player matchups. This rule makes the 
home team designation important even in games played on neutral ice. The 
second advantage is that when lining up for the face-off, the away team's 
centre must place his stick on the ice before the centre of the home team 
(as of the 2015–16 season, this applies in the NHL only for face-offs at 
centre ice; in international play, the attacking centre places his stick 
first for all face-offs, while for NHL face-offs in either attacking zone, 
the defending centre must place his stick first). This gives the home team's 
centre the ability to time the face-off better and gives him greater odds 
of winning it. The third advantage is that the home team has the benefit 
of choosing whether to take the first or second attempt in a shootout. 
In baseball, the home team gets to bat last in each inning. If the game 
goes into extra innings, this can yield very real advantages when deciding 
strategies regarding base-stealing and sacrifice hits. In addition, in 
Major League Baseball, the home league's rules concerning the designated 
hitter (DH) are followed during interleague games, including the World 
Series. This puts AL teams at a disadvantage when they play in NL parks, 
as AL pitchers are typically not used to having to bat. NL teams at AL 
parks are at a disadvantage because a player who does not play often will 
have to bat an entire game, usually on consecutive nights. The NL team's 
DH is a pinch-hitter who bats perhaps once every two or three games during 
the season, or alternates in a platoon system with other players (such 
as a catcher who does not start because the starting pitcher uses the other 
catcher), while the AL team's DH bats three or more times a game throughout 
the season. In baseball, there is always a psychological home advantage 
when the game is tied or close in the 9th or in extra innings. The visiting 
team, if they are leading after batting in their half of the inning (the 
top), must face and record three outs against the home team in order to 
finish off and win the game. But the home team, upon scoring the go-ahead 
run in the bottom of the 9th or an extra inning, wins in sudden death without 
having to take the field defensively following their period at bat. If 
the home team is in the lead following the top of the 9th, the game ends 
at this point, and the bottom of the 9th is not played at all. There is 
no clear-cut, physical advantage because both teams are given the same 
number of opportunities (i.e. innings). The advantage is knowing how well 
one must perform in the last inning, if at all. For games at home, the 
hosting team will have the advantage of playing with their first choice 
uniform/kit, rather than their alternate colors. A team's identity is often 
partly or mostly based on its home colors (for example, the All Blacks 
of New Zealand). In Major League Baseball, by tradition a team's home uniform 
has the team name on it (i.e. "Twins", "Mets", "Braves") and is typically 
white in color, while its away uniform has the name of its home city, state 
or region on it ("Minnesota", "New York", "Atlanta") and is grey or is 
the "dark" jersey (features the team's colors), although there are exceptions. 
During the regular season for a sport, in the interest of fairness, schedulers 
try to ensure that each team plays an equal number of home and away games. 
Thus, having home-field advantage for any particular regular-season game 
is largely due to random chance. (This is only true for fully organized 
leagues with structured schedules; for a counterexample, college football 
schedules often have an imbalance in which the most successful and largest 
teams can negotiate more home appearances than mid-majors, a situation 
that was also prevalent in the early, disorganized years of the National 
Football League.) However, in playoffs, home advantage is usually given 
to the team with the better regular-season record. One exception to this 
is Major League Baseball, which since 2003 has awarded home-field advantage 
in the World Series to the team representing the league which won the All-Star 
Game that year, to help raise interest in the All-Star Game after a tie 
in 2002. Before 2003, home-field advantage alternated each year between 
the National League and the American League. In MLB's first and second 
round of playoffs, home-field advantage is given to the team with the better 
record if both teams are division champions, and to the division champion 
if one of the teams is a wild card. For the first round in the NFL and 
NHL playoffs, home advantage is given to the team with a higher seed (which 
may or may not have the better record). The NBA is the only league that 
has home-court advantage based solely on which team has the best record 
(using various tiebreakers to settle the question should the teams finish 
with identical records). Rugby union's European Rugby Champions Cup also 
uses a seeding system to determine home advantage in the quarterfinals 
(though not in the semifinals, where the nominal "home" teams[8] are determined 
by a blind draw). In many sports, playoffs consist of a 'series' of games 
played between two teams. These series are usually a best-of-5 or best-of-7 
format, where the first team to win 3 or 4 games, respectively, wins the 
playoff. Since these best-of series always involve an odd number of games, 
it is impossible to guarantee that an equal number of games will be played 
at each team's home venue. As a result, one team must be scheduled to have 
one more home game than the other. This team is said to have home-field 
advantage for that playoff series. During the course of these playoff series, 
however, sports announcers or columnists will sometimes mention a team 
"gaining" or "losing" home-field advantage. This can happen after a visiting 
team has just won a game in the series. In playoff series format, the home-field 
advantage is said to exist for whichever team would win the series if all 
remaining games in the series are won by the home team for that game. Therefore, 
it is possible for a visiting team to win a game and, hence, gain home-field 
advantage. This is somewhat similar to the concept of losing serve in tennis. 
As an example, suppose that the San Francisco Giants and the Los Angeles 
Dodgers are about to play a best-of-seven series against each other. Four 
games will be played in San Francisco, while three will be played in Los 
Angeles. If the home team were to win each game, then the Giants would 
win four games, the Dodgers would win three games, and the Giants would 
win the series, so we say that San Francisco has the home-field advantage. 
However, suppose that the first game is played at the Giants' park and 
the visiting Dodgers win. Los Angeles now has one win, and there are three 
games remaining at each park. If the home team wins each of the remaining 
games, then the Dodgers will have won four games, while San Francisco will 
have won three. Since the Los Angeles Dodgers would win the series in such 
a scenario, it is said that they have taken home-field advantage away from 
the San Francisco Giants. In some cup competitions, (for example the FA 
Cup in all rounds prior to the semi-final), home advantage is determined 
by a random drawing. However, if the initial match is drawn (tied), home 
advantage for the replay is given to the other team. For certain sporting 
events, home advantage may be removed by use of a neutral venue. This may 
be a national stadium that is not a home stadium to any club (for example 
Wembley Stadium hosts the FA Cup Final and semi-finals). Alternatively 
the neutral venue may be the home stadium of another club, such as was 
used historically to stage FA Cup semi-finals. If the venue is chosen before 
the start of the competition however, it is still possible for one team 
to gain home field advantage. For example, in the European Cup/UEFA Champions 
League, there have been four instances where a club has managed to reach 
the final hosted in its own stadium (1957, 1965, 1984, and 2012). Most 
recently Bayern Munich played (and lost) the 2012 final at their home stadium 
of Allianz Arena, as it was chosen as the venue in January 2010. In the 
Champions League Final, however, if the "home" shirt colors of both teams 
conflict (i.e. both are red) then there is a draw which assigns one of 
the teams their "away" shirt. Not unlike the UEFA Champions League, the 
NFL's Super Bowl is played in a venue chosen years in advance of the game. 
It is possible for a team to reach the Super Bowl when it is played in 
their home stadium; this has never happened in the history of the game, 
though two games (XIV in 1980 and XIX in 1985) were played in neutral stadiums 
in the market area of one of the participating teams. Tickets are allocated 
equally between both competing teams in the Final, even if one side happens 
to be the home team. Neutral-venue matches may arise out of necessity. 
For example, on December 12, 2010, the roof of the Minnesota Vikings' stadium, 
the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome collapsed due to a snowstorm. The Vikings 
were supposed to play against the New York Giants at the stadium the next 
day. The game was moved to the Detroit Lions' stadium, Ford Field. The 
following week, the Vikings' Monday Night Football game against the Chicago 
Bears was moved to the University of Minnesota's TCF Bank Stadium. For 
the 1992-93 and 1993-94 seasons, the National Hockey League scheduled neutral 
site games. Each team played 41 home games, 41 road games, and 2 games 
at neutral sites (for a total of 84 games). The neutral site games were 
eliminated starting with the 1995-96 season, which reduced the regular 
season to 82 games per team. A requirement to play home matches at a neutral 
venue has been used as a punishment by UEFA for teams whose fans cause 
disturbances at a previous match.[9] It is also required where one team's 
home location is in a war zone or at high risk of terrorism. In these cases 
the match is still treated as a "home" match for such purposes as implementing 
