In sports, home is the place and venue identified with a team sport. Most 
professional teams are named for, and marketed to, particular metropolitan 
areas;[1] amateur teams may be drawn from a particular region, or from 
institutions such as schools or universities.[2] When they play in that 
venue, they are said to be the "home team"; when the team plays elsewhere, 
they are the away, visiting, or road team. Home teams wear home colors. 
Each team has a location where it practices during the season and where 
it hosts games. This is referred to as the home court, home field, home 
stadium, home arena, or home ice.[3] When a team is serving as host of 
a contest, it is designated as the "home team". The event is described 
as a "home game" for that team and the venue that the game is being played 
is described as the "home field."[4] In most sports, there is a home field 
advantage whereby the home team wins more frequently because it has a greater 
familiarity with the nuances of the venue and because it has more fans 
cheering for it, which supposedly gives the players adrenaline and an advantage.[citation 
needed] The opposing team is said to be the visiting team, the away team, 
or the road team. In baseball, sometimes, when teams are playing a makeup 
game from an earlier game postponed by rain, the game may have to be made 
up in the other team's stadium. An example of this occurred on September 
26, 2007, with a game between the Cleveland Indians, who were the "home" 
team, but the game was played vs. the Seattle Mariners in Safeco Field, 
with their fans, etc.[5] Other instances of the home team playing in the 
visitor's stadium include the New Orleans Saints hosting the New York Giants 
at Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey a few weeks after Hurricane 
Katrina hit New Orleans in 2005; and the Toronto Blue Jays playing a 2010 
home series with the Philadelphia Phillies in the Phillies' Citizens Bank 
Park while the G-20 Summit was being held near the Rogers Centre in Toronto. 
Because it was an interleague series, the designated hitter rule was instituted 
in a National League ballpark for the first time in the regular season. 
A spectator can often tell which team is home by looking at the field of 
play. Often a home team logo, insignia or name is in the middle of the 
field at center ice, midfield, or center court. Also, the logo, insignia 
or name may be found atop a dugout in baseball or in the end zone in American 
football. Rules and conventions often apply to the choice of home and away 
colors. In Australian football, the home team traditionally wears black 
shorts. In American football and hockey, the home team tends to wear uniforms 
that feature their team colors, whereas the visiting team will wear white 
or a lighter color.[citation needed] On the other hand, in baseball and 
basketball, the home team will typically choose to wear the lighter colored 
version of its uniform. In fact, many teams have a home uniform which is 
mostly white and referred to as the "home whites".[citation needed] The 
road team will generally wear a version of its uniform with one of the 
darker of its official colors as the main color, or in baseball with a 
grey main color referred to as the "road greys". The term "home whites" 
originated in the early days of Major League Baseball. Typically the visiting 
team had no access to laundry facilities and thus the players were unable 
to clean their uniforms on the road. By wearing grey or another dark color 
the visiting team was better able to conceal the dirt and grass stains 
that had accumulated on their uniforms over the course of the series. The 
home team, having access to laundry facilities, was able to wear clean 
white uniforms each day, hence the term "home whites".[citation needed] 
In any context where a game score or the pair of teams meeting in a game 
are mentioned, the team mentioned first (left or top) is the home team, 
except in the United States and Canada, and to a lesser extent, Japan, 
where home teams are mentioned second. The North American and Japanese 
practice of listing the home team second likely derives from baseball, 
in which the home team bats after the visiting team in each inning.[citation 
needed] Typically, the home team has responsibilities such as supplying 
the venue and equipment, hosting its opponent, media and the officials 
(referees, umpires, etc.), and may have the opportunity to sell tickets, 
