The Homer in the Gloamin' is one of the most famous walk-off home runs 
in baseball folklore, hit by Gabby Hartnett of the Chicago Cubs near the 
end of the 1938 Major League Baseball season.[1] The expression was a play 
on the popular song, "Roamin' In The Gloamin' " and was used in the lead 
paragraph of a story about the game written by Earl Hilligan for the Associated 
Press. The Pittsburgh Pirates had led the National League for much of the 
1938 season, but when the final month of the season came, the Pirates began 
to falter.[2] By the time they came to Chicago late in September for a 
three-game series, the Chicago Cubs were one and a half games behind the 
Pirates in the standings.[3] The Cubs won the first game of the series 
2–1, behind the pitching of Dizzy Dean who, by then was well past his prime.[4] 
With an ailing arm, Dean relied more on his experience and grit to defeat 
the Pirates and would later call it the greatest outing of his career.[4] 
The victory cut the Pirates' lead to a half game and, set the stage for 
one of baseball's most memorable moments.[3][5] The game on September 28, 
1938, reached the bottom of the ninth inning with the score tied at 5 runs 
apiece.[1] With darkness descending on a Wrigley Field that did not yet 
have artificial lighting, the umpires ruled that the ninth inning would 
be the last to be played.[1] At the time, suspended game rules did not 
provide for suspending games due to darkness. The game would have to have 
been replayed in its entirety the following day, prior to the scheduled 
third game of the series. Hartnett came to bat with two outs in the bottom 
of the ninth inning.[1] With a count of 0 balls and 2 strikes, Hartnett 
connected on a Mace Brown pitch, launching the ball into the darkness, 
before it eventually landed in the left-center field bleachers for a game-winning 
home run. The stadium erupted into pandemonium as players and fans stormed 
the field to escort Hartnett around the bases.[6] As a result of the shot, 
the Cubs vaulted into first place. They won the next day's scheduled game 
over the Pirates 10–1, completing a three-game sweep of the Bucs, and would 
clinch the pennant in St. Louis three days later.[3] The Cubs would finish 
the season 89–63, with the Pirates two games behind at 86–64. That was 
the high point of the Cubs season, as they were swept in the 1938 World 
Series by the New York Yankees, their fourth World Series loss in ten years.[7] 
For the Pirates, 1938 marked the closest they would come to going to the 
World Series between 1927 and 1960, as the team would slip to sixth place 
the following year, with average seasons in the early 1940s and a late 
pennant race in 1948 only to become one of baseball's worst teams from 
1949 until 1956, not contending for the National League pennant again until 
the late 1950s. "Roamin' in the Gloamin' " was a popular song dating to 
1911, written and recorded by Harry Lauder. "Gloaming" is a regional dialect 
term of Scots origin denoting "twilight". Writers picked up on these facts 
and Hartnett's clutch hit became known in Cubs lore as the "Homer in the 
Gloamin' ". The rules for making up tied games were somewhat less strict 
in those days, as it can be seen that if a full 154 decisions had been 
played by both clubs, the Pirates would still have had a mathematical chance 
of finishing on top. The Cubs were missing two decisions, and the Pirates 
