The Homestead Grays (also known as Washington Grays or Washington Homestead 
Grays) were a professional baseball team that played in the Negro leagues 
in the United States. The team was formed in 1912 by Cumberland Posey, 
and remained in continuous operation for 38 seasons. The team was originally 
based in Homestead, Pennsylvania, adjacent to Pittsburgh. By the 1920s, 
with increasing popularity in the Pittsburgh region, the team retained 
the name "Homestead" but crossed the Monongahela River to play all home 
games in Pittsburgh, at the Pittsburgh Pirates' home Forbes Field and the 
Pittsburgh Crawfords' home Greenlee Field. From 1940 until 1942, the Grays 
played half of their home games in Washington, D.C., while remaining in 
Pittsburgh for all other home stands.[1] As attendance at their games in 
the nation's capital grew, by 1943, the Grays were playing more than two-thirds 
of their home games in Washington.[2] The Grays grew out of an earlier 
industrial team. In 1900, a group of African-American players had joined 
together to form the Germantown Blue Ribbons, an industrial league team. 
For ten years, the Blue Ribbons fielded a team every season and played 
some of the best sandlot teams in the area. In 1910, the managers of the 
team retired. The players reorganized the team and named themselves the 
Murdock Grays. In 1912, they became the Homestead Grays, the name they 
retained for the remainder of the franchise's history. The Grays did join 
the American Negro League in 1929, but that league lasted only one season. 
The team operated independently again until 1932, when Posey organized 
the ill-fated East-West League; that league also collapsed before completing 
its first and only season. Posey entered his Grays in the Negro National 
League in 1935. With the near-collapse of the Pittsburgh Crawfords, Josh 
Gibson returned to the Grays in 1937, combining with slugger Buck Leonard 
to power the Grays to nine consecutive (and a total of ten) Negro National 
League Championships and three Negro League World Series titles. Vic Harris 
managed the Grays during their years in league play, between 1935 and 1948, 
and piloted Homestead to eight pennants. He guided his team to six consecutive 
pennants from 1937 through 1942; in 1945 and 1948, and led the 1948 team 
to the Negro League World Series championship. The 1943 and 1944 NLWS titles 
came under Candy Jim Taylor. Pittsburgh Steelers founder and owner Art 
Rooney related in an 1981 interview that he "from time to time" had "helped 
financially support the Negro League team, the Homestead Grays, and . . 
. was a better baseball fan than football fan."[3] Following the collapse 
of the Negro National League after the 1948 season, the Grays struggled 
to continue as an independent club, and ultimately disbanded in May 1951.[4] 
From the late 1930s through the 1940s, the Grays played their home games 
at Pittsburgh's Forbes Field, home of the Pittsburgh Pirates. However, 
during this same period the club adopted the Washington, D.C. area as its 
"home away from home" and scheduled many of its "home" games at D.C.'s 
Griffith Stadium, the home park of the Washington Senators. During these 
games, they were alternatively known as the Washington Grays or Washington 
Homestead Grays. These Homestead Grays players have been inducted to the 
National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum: On July 11, 2002, the Homestead 
High-Level Bridge which connects Pittsburgh to Homestead over the Monongahela 
River at Homestead was renamed the Homestead Grays Bridge in honor of the 
team.[5] When the Montreal Expos moved to Washington, "Grays" was one of 
the three finalists (along with "Senators" and the eventual winner "Nationals") 
for the relocated team's new name, reflecting Washington's baseball history.[6] 
The teams's home field, Nationals Park, includes numerous references to 
the Grays: The Pittsburgh Pirates and Washington Nationals have worn Homestead 
Grays throwback uniforms in official Major League Baseball games several 
