Honolulu (/ˌhɒnəˈluːluː/ or /ˌhoʊnoʊˈluːluː/;[6][7] Hawaiian pronunciation: [honoˈlulu]) 
is the largest city in the U.S. state of Hawaii. It is an unincorporated 
part of and the county seat of the City and County of Honolulu on the island 
of Oahu.[a] Honolulu is the most populous city in and the state capital 
of Hawaii. The city is the main gateway to Hawaii and a major portal into 
the United States. The city is also a major hub for international business, 
military defense, as well as famously being host to a diverse variety of 
east-west and Pacific culture, cuisine, and traditions. Honolulu is the 
most remote city of its size in the world[9] and is both the westernmost 
and the southernmost major U.S. city. For statistical purposes, the U.S. 
Census Bureau recognizes the approximate area commonly referred to as "City 
of Honolulu" (not to be confused with the "City and County") as a census 
county division (CCD).[10] Honolulu is a major financial center of the 
islands and of the Pacific Ocean. The population of the city of Honolulu 
was 337,256 as of the 2010 census,[4] while the Honolulu CCD was 390,738[11] 
and the population of the consolidated city and county was 953,207. Honolulu 
means "sheltered harbor"[12] or "calm port".[13] The old name is said to 
be Kou, a district roughly encompassing the area from Nuuanu Avenue to 
Alakea Street and from Hotel Street to Queen Street which is the heart 
of the present downtown district.[14] The city has been the capital of 
the Hawaiian Islands since 1845 and gained historical recognition following 
the attack on Pearl Harbor by Japan near the city on December 7, 1941. 
As of 2015[update], Honolulu was ranked high on world livability rankings, 
and was also ranked as the 2nd safest city in the U.S.[15][16] It is also 
the most populated Oceanian city outside Australasia and ranks second only 
to Auckland as the most populous city in Polynesia.[17][18] Evidence of 
the first settlement of Honolulu by the original Polynesian migrants to 
the archipelago comes from oral histories and artifacts. These indicate 
that there was a settlement where Honolulu now stands in the 11th century.[19] 
However, after Kamehameha I conquered Oʻahu in the Battle of Nuʻuanu at 
Nuʻuanu Pali, he moved his royal court from the Island of Hawaiʻi to Waikīkī 
in 1804. His court relocated in 1809 to what is now downtown Honolulu. 
The capital was moved back to Kailua-Kona in 1812. In 1794, Captain William 
Brown of Great Britain was the first foreigner to sail into what is now 
Honolulu Harbor.[20] More foreign ships followed, making the port of Honolulu 
a focal point for merchant ships traveling between North America and Asia. 
In 1845, Kamehameha III moved the permanent capital of the Hawaiian Kingdom 
from Lahaina on Maui to Honolulu. He and the kings that followed him transformed 
Honolulu into a modern capital,[21] erecting buildings such as St. Andrew's 
Cathedral, ʻIolani Palace, and Aliʻiōlani Hale. At the same time, Honolulu 
became the center of commerce in the islands, with descendants of American 
missionaries establishing major businesses in downtown Honolulu.[22] Despite 
the turbulent history of the late 19th century and early 20th century, 
such as the overthrow of the Hawaiian monarchy in 1893, Hawaiʻi's subsequent 
annexation by the United States in 1898, followed by a large fire in 1900, 
and the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941, Honolulu remained the 
capital, largest city, and main airport and seaport of the Hawaiian Islands.[23] 
An economic and tourism boom following statehood brought rapid economic 
growth to Honolulu and Hawaiʻi. Modern air travel brings, as of 2007[update], 
7.6 million visitors annually to the islands, with 62.3% entering at Honolulu 
International Airport.[24] Today, Honolulu is a modern city with numerous 
high-rise buildings, and Waikīkī is the center of the tourism industry 
in Hawaiʻi, with thousands of hotel rooms. The UK consulting firm Mercer, 
in a 2009 assessment "conducted to help governments and major companies 
place employees on international assignments", ranked Honolulu 29th worldwide 
in quality of living; the survey factored in political stability, personal 
freedom, sanitation, crime, housing, the natural environment, recreation, 
banking facilities, availability of consumer goods, education, and public 
services including transportation.[25] According to the United States Census 
Bureau, the CDP has a total area of 68.4 square miles (177.2 km2). 60.5 
square miles (156.7 km2) of it (88.44%) is land, and 7.9 square miles (20.5 km2) 
of it (11.56%) is water.[26] Honolulu is the most remote major city in 
the world.[9] The closest location on the mainland to Honolulu is the Point 
Arena Lighthouse in California, at 2,045 nautical miles (3,787 km).[27] 
(Nautical vessels require some additional distance to circumnavigate Makapuʻu 
Point.) However, part of the Aleutian Islands of Alaska are slightly closer 
to Honolulu than the mainland. Honolulu experiences a hot semi-arid climate 
(Köppen classification BSh), with a mostly dry summer season, due to a 
rain shadow effect.[30] Temperatures vary little throughout the months, 
with average high temperatures of 80–90 °F (27–32 °C) and average lows 
of 65–75 °F (18–24 °C) throughout the year. Temperatures reach or exceed 
90 °F (32 °C) on an average 38 days annually,[31] with lows in the upper 
50s °F (14–15 °C) occurring once or twice a year. The highest recorded 
temperature was 95 °F (35 °C) during a heat wave in September 1998. The 
highest recorded temperature in the state was also recorded later that 
day in Ni'ihau. The lowest recorded temperature was 52 °F (11 °C) on February 
16, 1902, and January 20, 1969. With high temperatures and humidity there 
is a vast tropical influence on the climate, although rainfall falls short 
of that classification. Annual average rainfall is 17.05 in (433 mm), which 
mainly occurs during the winter months of October through early April, 
with very little rainfall during the summer; similar to California's mediterranean 
climates. However, both seasons experience a similar number of rainy days. 
Light showers occur in summer while heavier rain falls during winter. Honolulu 
has an average of 278 sunny days and 90 rainy days per year. Although the 
city is situated in the tropics, hurricanes are quite rare. The last recorded 
hurricane that hit the area was Category 4 Hurricane Iniki in 1992. Tornadoes 
are also uncommon and usually strike once every 15 years. Waterspouts off 
the coast are also uncommon, hitting about once every five years.[32] Honolulu 
falls under the USDA 12a Plant Hardiness zone.[33] The average temperature 
of the sea ranges from 24.3 °C (75.7 °F) in March to 26.9 °C (80.4 °F) 
in September.[34] The population of Honolulu was 390,738 according to the 
2010 U.S. Census. Of those, 192,781 (49.3%) were male and 197,957 (50.7%) 
were female. The median age for males was 40.0 and 43.0 for females; the 
overall median age was 41.3. Approximately 84.7% of the total population 
was 16 years and over; 82.6% were 18 years and over, 78.8% were 21 years 
and over, 21.4% were 62 years and over, and 17.8% were 65 years and over.[11] 
In terms of race and ethnicity, 54.8% were Asian, 17.9% were White, 1.5% 
were Black or African American, 0.2% were American Indian or Alaska Native, 
8.4% were Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander, 0.8% were from "some 
other race", and 16.3% were from two or more races. Hispanics and Latinos 
of any race made up 5.4% of the population.[11] In 1970, the Census Bureau 
reported Honolulu's population as 33.9% white and 53.7% Asian and Pacific 
Islander.[40] Asian Americans represent the majority of Honolulu's population. 
The Asian ethnic groups are Japanese (19.9%), Filipinos (13.2%), Chinese 
(10.4%), Koreans (4.3%), Vietnamese (2.0%), Asian Indians (0.3%), Laotians 
(0.3%), Thais (0.2%), Cambodians (0.1%), and Indonesians (0.1%). People 
solely of Native Hawaiian ancestry made up 3.2% of the population. Samoan 
Americans made up 1.5% of the population, Marshallese people make up 0.5% 
of the city's population, and Tongan people comprise 0.3% of its population. 
People of Guamanian or Chamorro descent made up 0.2% of the population 
and numbered 841 residents.[11] Honolulu's urban area was the fourth densest[9] 
in the United States according to the 2010 U.S. Census. The largest city 
and airport in the Hawaiian Islands, Honolulu acts as a natural gateway 
to the islands' large tourism industry, which brings millions of visitors 
and contributes $10 billion annually to the local economy. Honolulu's location 
in the Pacific also makes it a large business and trading hub, particularly 
between the East and the West. Other important aspects of the city's economy 
include military defense, research and development, and manufacturing.[41] 
Among the companies based in Honolulu are: Hawaiian Airlines,[42] Island 
Air,[43] and Aloha Air Cargo are headquartered in the city.[44][45] Prior 
to its dissolution, Aloha Airlines was headquartered in the city.[46] At 
one time Mid-Pacific Airlines had its headquarters on the property of Honolulu 
International Airport.[47] In 2009, Honolulu had a 4.5% increase in the 
average price of rent, maintaining it in the second most expensive rental 
market ranking among 210 U.S. metropolitan areas.[48] Since no national 
bank chains have any branches in Hawaii, many visitors and new residents 
use different banks. First Hawaiian Bank is the largest and oldest bank 
in Hawaii and their headquarters are at the First Hawaiian Center, the 
tallest building in the State of Hawaii. The Bishop Museum is the largest 
of Honolulu's museums. It is endowed with the state's largest collection 
of natural history specimens and the world's largest collection of Hawaiiana 
and Pacific culture artifacts.[49] The Honolulu Zoo is the main zoological 
institution in Hawaii while the Waikiki Aquarium is a working marine biology 
laboratory. The Waikiki Aquarium is partnered with the University of Hawaii 
and other universities worldwide. Established for appreciation and botany, 
Honolulu is home to several gardens: Foster Botanical Garden, Liliʻuokalani 
Botanical Garden, Walker Estate, among others. Established in 1900, the 
Honolulu Symphony is the second oldest US symphony orchestra west of the 
Rocky Mountains. Other classical music ensembles include the Hawaii Opera 
Theatre. Honolulu is also a center for Hawaiian music. The main music venues 
include the Hawaii Theatre, the Neal Blaisdell Center Concert Hall and 
Arena, and the Waikiki Shell. Honolulu also includes several venues for 
live theater, including the Diamond Head Theatre. Various institutions 
for the visual arts are located in Honolulu. The Honolulu Museum of Art 
is endowed with the largest collection of Asian and Western art in Hawaii. 
It also has the largest collection of Islamic art, housed at the Shangri 
La estate. Since the merger of the Honolulu Academy of Arts and The Contemporary 
Museum, Honolulu (now called the Honolulu Museum of Art Spalding House) 
in 2011, the museum is also the only contemporary art museum in the state. 
The contemporary collections are housed at main campus (Spalding House) 
in Makiki and a multi-level gallery in downtown Honolulu at the First Hawaiian 
Center. The museum hosts a film and video program dedicated to arthouse 
and world cinema in the museum's Doris Duke Theatre, named for the museum's 
historic patroness Doris Duke.[citation needed] The Hawaii State Art Museum 
(also downtown) boasts pieces by local artists as well as traditional Hawaiian 
art. The museum is administered by the Hawaii State Foundation on Culture 
and the Arts. Honolulu also annually holds the Hawaii International Film 
Festival (HIFF). It showcases some of the best films from producers all 
across the Pacific Rim and is the largest "East meets West" style film 
festival of its sort in the United States. Honolulu's climate lends itself 
to year-round activities. In 2004, Men's Fitness magazine named Honolulu 
the fittest city in the United States.[50] Honolulu has three large road 
races: Ironman Hawaii was first held in Honolulu, it was the first ever 
Ironman and is also the World Champs. Fans of spectator sports in Honolulu 
generally support the football, volleyball, basketball, rugby union, rugby 
league and baseball programs of the University of Hawaii at Manoa.[51] 
High school sporting events, especially football, are especially popular. 
Honolulu has no professional sports teams. It was the home of the Hawaii 
Islanders (Pacific Coast League, 1961–87), The Hawaiians (World Football 
League, 1974–75), Team Hawaii (North American Soccer League, 1977), and 
the Hawaiian Islanders (af2, 2002–04). The NCAA football Hawaii Bowl is 
played in Honolulu. Honolulu has also hosted the NFL's annual Pro Bowl 
each February from 1980 to 2009. After the 2010 and 2015 games were played 
in Miami Gardens and Glendale, respectively, the Pro Bowl was once again 
in Honolulu from 2011 to 2014 with 2016 the most recent.[52][53] From 1993 
to 2008, Honolulu hosted Hawaii Winter Baseball, featuring minor league 
players from Major League Baseball, Nippon Professional Baseball, Korea 
Baseball Organization, and independent leagues. Venues for spectator sports 
in Honolulu include: Aloha Stadium, a venue for American football and soccer, 
is located in Halawa near Pearl Harbor, just outside Honolulu.[54] Kirk 
Caldwell was elected mayor of Honolulu County on November 6, 2012, and 
began serving as the county's 14th mayor on January 2, 2013. The municipal 
offices of the City and County of Honolulu, including Honolulu Hale, the 
seat of the city and county, are located in the Capitol District, as are 
the Hawaii state government buildings.[55] The Capitol District is within 
the Honolulu census county division (CCD), the urban area commonly regarded 
as the "City" of Honolulu. The Honolulu CCD is located on the southeast 
coast of Oahu between Makapuu and Halawa. The division boundary follows 
the Koolau crestline, so Makapuʻu Beach is in the Koolaupoko District. 
On the west, the division boundary follows Halawa Stream, then crosses 
Red Hill and runs just west of Aliamanu Crater, so that Aloha Stadium, 
Pearl Harbor (with the USS Arizona Memorial), and Hickam Air Force Base 
are actually all located in the island's Ewa CCD.[56] The Hawaii Department 
of Public Safety operates the Oahu Community Correctional Center, the jail 
for the island of Oahu, in Honolulu CCD.[57] The United States Postal Service 
operates post offices in Honolulu. The main Honolulu Post Office is located 
by the international airport at 3600 Aolele Street.[58] Federal Detention 
Center, Honolulu, operated by the Federal Bureau of Prisons, is in the 
CDP.[59] Several countries have consular facilities in Honolulu, due to 
its strategically important position in the mid-Pacific. They include consulates 
of Japan,[60] South Korea,[61] Philippines,[62] Federated States of Micronesia,[63] 
Australia,[64] and the Marshall Islands.[65] Colleges and universities 
in Honolulu include Honolulu Community College, Kapiolani Community College, 
the University of Hawaii at Manoa, Chaminade University, and Hawaii Pacific 
University.[45] UH Manoa houses the main offices of the University of Hawaii 
System.[66] Hawaii Department of Education operates public schools in Honolulu. 
Public high schools within the CDP area include Wallace Rider Farrington, 
Kaiser, Kaimuki, Kalani, Moanalua, William McKinley, and Theodore Roosevelt.[45] 
Private schools include Academy of the Pacific, Damien Memorial School, 
Hawaii Baptist Academy, Iolani School, Lutheran High School of Hawaii, 
Kamehameha Schools, Maryknoll School, Mid-Pacific Institute, La Pietra, 
Punahou School, Sacred Hearts Academy, St. Andrew's Priory School, Saint 
Francis School, Saint Louis School, the Education Laboratory School, Saint 
Patrick School, Trinity Christian School, and Varsity International School. 
Hawaii State Public Library System operates public libraries. The Hawaii 
State Library in the CDP serves as the main library of the system,[67] 
while the Library for the Blind and Physically Handicapped, also in the 
CDP area, serves handicapped and blind people.[68] Branches in the CDP 
area include Aiea, Aina Haina, Ewa Beach, Hawaii Kai, Kahuku, Kailua, Kaimuki, 
Kalihi-Palama, Kaneohe, Kapolei, Liliha, Manoa, McCully-Moiliili, Mililani, 
Moanalua, Wahiawa, Waialua, Waianae, Waikiki-Kapahulu, Waimanalo, and Waipahu.[69] 
The Hawaii Japanese School – Rainbow Gakuen (ハワイレインボー学園 Hawai Rainbō Gakuen), 
a supplementary weekend Japanese school, holds its classes in Kaimuki Middle 
School in Honolulu and has its offices in another building in Honolulu.[70] 
The school serves overseas Japanese nationals.[71] In addition Honolulu 
has other weekend programs for the Japanese, Chinese, and Spanish languages.[72] 
Honolulu is served by one daily newspaper (the Honolulu Star-Advertiser), 
Honolulu Magazine, several radio stations and television stations, among 
other media. Local news agency and CNN-affiliate Hawaii News Now broadcasts 
and is headquartered out of Honolulu. Honolulu and the island of Oahu has 
also been the location for many film and television projects, including 
Hawaii Five-0 and Lost. Located at the western end of the CDP, Honolulu 
International Airport (HNL) is the principal aviation gateway to the state 
of Hawaii. Kalaeloa Airport is primarily a commuter facility used by unscheduled 
air taxis, general aviation and transient and locally based military aircraft. 
Honolulu has been ranked as having the nation's worst traffic congestion, 
beating former record holder Los Angeles. Drivers waste on average over 
58 hours per year on congested roadways.[73] The following freeways, part 
of the Interstate Highway System serve Honolulu: Other major highways that 
link Honolulu CCD with other parts of the Island of Oahu are: Like most 
major American cities, the Honolulu metropolitan area experiences heavy 
traffic congestion during rush hours, especially to and from the western 
suburbs of Kapolei, 'Ewa Beach, Aiea, Pearl City, Waipahu, and Mililani. 
There is a Hawaii Electric Vehicle Demonstration Project (HEVDP).[74] In 
November 2010, voters approved a charter amendment to create a public transit 
authority to oversee the planning, construction, operation and future extensions 
to Honolulu's future rail system. The Honolulu Authority for Rapid Transportation 
(HART) currently includes a 10-member board of directors; three members 
appointed by the mayor, three members selected by the Honolulu City Council, 
and the city and state transportation directors.[75] The opening of the 
Honolulu Rail Transit is delayed until approximately 2018, as HART canceled 
the initial bids for the first nine stations and intends to rebid the work 
as three packages of three stations each, and allow more time for construction 
in the hope that increased competition on smaller contracts will drive 
down costs;[76] initial bids ranged from $294.5 million to $320.8 million, 
far surpassing HART's budget of $184 million.[77] Established by former 
Mayor Frank F. Fasi as the replacement for the Honolulu Rapid Transit Company 
(HRT), Honolulu's TheBus system was honored in 1994–1995 and 2000–2001 
by the American Public Transportation Association as "America's Best Transit 
System". TheBus operates 107 routes serving Honolulu and most major cities 
and towns on Oahu. TheBus comprises a fleet of 531 buses, and is run by 
the non-profit corporation Oahu Transit Services in conjunction with the 
city Department of Transportation Services. Honolulu is ranked 4th for 
highest per-capita use of mass transit in the United States.[78] Currently, 
there is no urban rail transit system in Honolulu, although electric street 
railways were operated in Honolulu by the now-defunct Honolulu Rapid Transit 
Company prior to World War II. Predecessors to the Honolulu Rapid Transit 
Company were the Honolulu Rapid Transit and Land Company (began 1903) and 
Hawaiian Tramways (began 1888).[79] The City and County of Honolulu is 
currently constructing a 20-mile (32 km) rail transit line that will connect 
Honolulu with cities and suburban areas near Pearl Harbor and in the Leeward 
and West Oahu regions. The Honolulu High-Capacity Transit Corridor Project 
is aimed at alleviating traffic congestion for West Oahu commuters while 
being integral in the westward expansion of the metropolitan area. The 
project, however, has been criticized by opponents of rail for its cost, 
delays, and potential environmental impacts, but the line is expected to 
have large ridership. Honolulu currently has 29 sister cities:[80] Nation: 
