Honolulu County (officially known as the City and County of Honolulu, formerly 
Oahu County) is a consolidated city–county located in the U.S. state of 
Hawaii. The City and County includes both the city of Honolulu (the state's 
capital and largest city) and the rest of the island of Oʻahu, as well 
as several minor outlying islands, including all of the Northwestern Hawaiian 
Islands (islands beyond Niihau) except Midway Atoll.[2] The consolidated 
city-county was established in the city charter adopted in 1907 and accepted 
by the Legislature of the Territory of Hawaiʻi.[2] As a municipal corporation 
and jurisdiction it manages aspects of government traditionally exercised 
by both municipalities and counties in the rest of the United States. As 
of the 2010 census, the population was 953,207.[3] Because of Hawaii's 
municipal structure,[4] the United States Census Bureau divides Honolulu 
County into several census-designated places for statistical purposes. 
The current mayor of Honolulu County is Kirk Caldwell, who reclaimed the 
job from the person who defeated him in a 2010 special election, Peter 
Carlisle, in 2013. The county motto is Haʻaheo No ʻO Honolulu (Honolulu 
Pride).[5] According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the county has a total 
area of 2,128 square miles (5,510 km2), of which 601 square miles (1,560 km2) 
is land and 1,527 square miles (3,950 km2) (71.8%) is water.[6] However, 
the majority of this area is the Pacific Ocean that surrounds the islands. 
Originally governed by a Board of Supervisors, the Honolulu County is administered 
under a mayor-council system of governance overseeing all municipal services: 
civil defense, emergency medical, fire, parks and recreation, police, sanitation, 
streets, and water, among others. For 2013, the county has an annual operating 
budget of US$2.16 billion.[7][8] The government of Honolulu County is simplified 
and streamlined and coalesces at three major divisions of municipal power. 
The Honolulu County is divided into 36 neighborhood boards. The office 
of neighborhood board member is an advisory position for public policy 
and civil investment. Members are elected to two-year terms. Like most 
counties in the United States, Honolulu County is divided into smaller 
administrative districts. There are nine such districts, each of which 
elects a member of the city-county council. The boundaries of each district 
are revised every ten years in conjunction with the U.S. Census. The civic 
center is coextensive with what is known as the Capitol District in downtown 
Honolulu. The official seat of governance for the Honolulu County is located 
within the district at Honolulu Hale, established in the 1920s as a city 
hall structure and houses the chambers of the mayor of Honolulu and the 
Honolulu City Council. In the 1960s and 1970s, Mayor Frank Fasi developed 
the modern civic center as it is known today. He took controversial and 
aggressive measures to reclaim property, demolish massive concrete structures 
in the area, construct underground parking facilities and open a green 
campus above ground with manicured lawns and specially commissioned sculpted 
artwork. He also oversaw the construction of new government buildings, 
to house the departments that fell within mayoral jurisdiction. The most 
prominent of those new buildings were the Honolulu Municipal Building and 
Hale Makaʻi, the headquarters of the Honolulu Police Department. Civic 
centers were also constructed off the Capitol District campus, including 
the Kapiʻolani Bandstand, Neal S. Blaisdell Center, and the Waikīkī Shell. 
The Honolulu County collects various forms of taxes, including a property 
tax. Revenue from those taxes is used to provide several services for the 
residents. Services include: The Hawaii Department of Public Safety operates 
three prisons, including the Halawa Correctional Facility, the Waiawa Correctional 
Facility, and the Women's Community Correctional Center,[12] on the island 
of Oahu in the City and County of Honolulu.[13] In addition the Oahu Community 
Correctional Center, the jail on Oahu Island, is in the County.[14] The 
United States Postal Service operates post offices in Honolulu County. 
The main one is located by the Honolulu International Airport at 3600 Aolele 
Street.[15] Federal Detention Center, Honolulu, operated by the Federal 
Bureau of Prisons, is in the CDP.[16] The Federal Bureau of Investigation 
(FBI) Honolulu field office is in Kapolei.[17] The Kunia Regional SIGINT 
Operations Center of the National Security Agency (NSA) and the Wheeler 
Army Airfield are in Honolulu County. As of the census[23] of 2000, there 
were 876,156 people, 286,450 households, and 205,671 families residing 
in Honolulu County. The population increased to 953,207 in the 2010 Census. 
The population density was 1,461 people per square mile (564/km²). There 
were 315,988 housing units at an average density of 527/sq mi (203/km²). 
The racial makeup of the county was 46.04% Asian, 21.28% white, 8.87% Pacific 
Islander, 2.35% black or African American, 0.25% Native American, 1.28% 
from other races, and 19.93% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino 
of any race were 6.70% of the population. There were 286,450 households 
out of which 31.8% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 54.5% 
were married couples living together, 12.3% had a female householder with 
no husband present, and 28.2% were non-families. 21.6% of all households 
were made up of individuals and 7.0% had someone living alone who was 65 
years of age or older. The average household size was 2.95 and the average 
family size was 3.46. In the county, the population was spread out with 
23.80% under the age of 18, 10.1% from 18 to 24, 30.6% from 25 to 44, 22.0% 
from 45 to 64, and 13.4% who were 65 years of age or older. The median 
age was 36 years. For every 100 females, there were 101.1 males. For every 
100 females age 18 and over, there were 99.7 males. The United States Office 
of Management and Budget has designated Honolulu County as the Urban Honolulu, 
HI Metropolitan Statistical Area.[24] The United States Census Bureau ranked 
the Urban Honolulu, HI Metropolitan Statistical Area as the 54th most populous 
metropolitan statistical area and the 61st most populous primary statistical 
area of the United States as of July 1, 2012.[25][26] Hawaiian Airlines,[27] 
Island Air,[28] and Aloha Air Cargo are headquartered in the CDP.[29][30] 
Prior to its dissolution, Aloha Airlines was headquartered in the CDP.[30][31] 
Other major companies headquartered in Honolulu CDP include First Hawaiian 
Bank, Bank of Hawaii, and the Hawaiian Electric Company (HECO). Several 
countries have diplomatic facilities in Honolulu County. The Consulate-General 
of Japan in Honolulu is located at 1742 Nuuanu Avenue.[32] The Consulate-General 
of South Korea in Honolulu is located at 2756 Pali Highway.[33] The Consulate-General 
of the Philippines in Honolulu is located at 2433 Pali Highway.[34] The 
Consulate-General of the Federated States of Micronesia in Honolulu is 
located in Suite 908 at 3049 Ualena Street.[35] The Consulate-General of 
Australia in Honolulu is located in the penthouse of 1000 Bishop Street.[36] 
The Consulate-General of the Marshall Islands is located in Suite 301 at 
1888 Lusitana Street.[37] The Consulate of the Republic of Kiribati is 
located at 95 Nakolo Place, Room 265. Located on the western end of the 
Honolulu census-designated place, Honolulu International Airport (HNL) 
is the principal aviation gateway to the state of Hawaii. Numerous airlines 
fly Pacific-wide to and from Honolulu International Airport. Locally based 
Hawaiian Airlines also operates flights to destinations within the islands 
of Hawaii and to major destinations across the Pacific. Several freeways 
serve Honolulu County: Other major highways that link the Honolulu CDP 
with other parts of the Island of Oahu are: Like most major American cities, 
Honolulu County experiences heavy traffic congestion during rush hours, 
especially to and from the western communities of Kapolei, Ewa, Aiea, Pearl 
City, Waipahu, and Mililani. Established by former Mayor Frank F. Fasi, 
Honolulu's public transit system has been twice honored by the American 
Public Transportation Association bestowing the title of "America's Best 
Transit System" for 1994–1995 and 2000–2001. Oahu Transit Services' "TheBus" 
operates 107 routes with a fleet of 525 buses. In 2004, construction had 
started on a bus rapid transit (BRT) system using dedicated rights-of-way 
for buses. The system, proposed by then Mayor Jeremy Harris, was expected 
to link the Iwilei neighborhood with Waikiki.[citation needed] However, 
former Mayor Mufi Hannemann largely dismantled the BRT system and deployed 
its buses along other express bus routes.[citation needed] Most buses in 
TheBus roster are manufactured by Gillig Corporation of Hayward, California, 
with the exception of accordion buses made by New Flyer, the latter also 
providing standard buses, likewise from Nova Bus. Currently, there is no 
urban rail transit system in Honolulu, although electric street railways 
were used during the early days of Honolulu's history. The last major attempt 
was called the Honolulu Area Rail Rapid Transit project, popularly known 
as HART. Proposed in 1968 by Mayor Neal S. Blaisdell and supported by his 
successor, Frank Fasi, HART was originally envisioned as a 29-mile (47 km) 
line from Pearl City to Hawaii Kai. By 1980, however, the project's length 
was cut to an 8-mile (13 km) segment between the University of Hawaii at 
Manoa and Honolulu International Airport. In the wake of proposed budget 
cuts by President Ronald Reagan, including the elimination of all funding 
for transit projects by 1985, newly elected Mayor Eileen Anderson cancelled 
the project in 1981 and returned grants and funding to their sources,[38][39] 
arguing the project would break her vow of fiscal responsibility.[40][41] 
Several attempts had been made since Anderson's cancellation of HART to 
construct a fixed rail mass transit system. All attempts stalled in Honolulu 
City Council hearings until in 2004, the city, county and state approved 
development of an action plan for a system to be built in several phases. 
The initial line proposed linking Kapolei in West Oahu to the University 
of Hawaii at Manoa.[citation needed] However, on December 22, 2006 the 
city council approved a fixed-guideway system meant to accommodate either 
rail or buses, running from Kapolei in West Oahu to Ala Moana, with spurs 
into Waikiki and Manoa. On November 4, 2008, the 50.6% (156,151) of Honolulu 
County voters, voted to approve a new $4.5 billion rail project that would 
connect West Oahu with downtown, Waikiki and University of Hawaii. The 
trains are planned to be approximately 200 feet (61 m) long, electric, 
steel wheel to steel rail technology and will capable of carrying more 
than 300 passengers each.[42][43] The rail project is currently projected 
to cost $5.27B.[44] After early delays and postponed dates from not receiving 
a final approval from then-Governor Linda Lingle to issues involving burial 
sites, a ground-breaking ceremony to signal the beginning of construction 
was held on February 22, 2011.[45][46] Despite the go-ahead, there were 
still other legal hurdles as the argument over burial sites continued to 
be a major issue that lead to court order in 2012 to have construction 
temporary halted.[47] The project itself was once again a political issue 
in the 2012 mayoral race with former governor Ben Cayetano entering the 
race in the hopes of killing the project altogether, while then-mayor Carlisle 
and his predecessor Caldwell both wanted the project to continue. This 
would result in Carlisle coming in third in the August 2012 primary and 
leading to a run-off between Cayetano and Caldwell in the November 2012 
general election, with Caldwell defeating Cayetano with the support of 
groups and the public who wanted the rail project to continue. In December 
2012, a court order allowed the rail project to resume in all but the one 
of the two phases so more burial sites could be uncovered.[48] Colleges 
and universities in Honolulu County include The University of Hawaii System, 
consisting of University of Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu Community College 
and Kapiolani Community College in the Honolulu CDP, Leeward Community 
College in Pearl City, University of Hawaii-West Oahu in Kapolei, and Windward 
Community College in Kaneohe. UH Manoa houses the main offices of the University 
of Hawaii System.[49] New Hope Christian College The private institutions 
serving the county include Chaminade University, Hawaii Pacific University, 
and Remington College (Honolulu Campus) in the Honolulu CDP and Brigham 
Young University–Hawaii in Laie CDP. Hawaii Department of Education operates 
public schools in Honolulu. Hawaii State Public Library System operates 
public libraries. The Hawaii State Library in the Honolulu CDP serves as 
the main library of the system,[50] while the Library for the Blind and 
Physically Handicapped, also in the CDP, serves handicapped and blind people.[51] 
In addition the system operates 22 branch libraries throughout the county.[52] 
Established in 1900, the Honolulu Symphony is the oldest US symphony orchestra 
west of the Rocky Mountains. Other classical music ensembles include the 
Hawaii Opera Theatre. Honolulu is also a center for Hawaiian music. The 
main music venues include the Neal Blaisdell Center Concert Hall, the Waikiki 
Shell, and the Hawaii Theatre. Honolulu also includes several venues for 
live theater, including the Diamond Head Theatre. There are various institutions 
supported by the state and private entities for the advancement of the 
visual arts. The Honolulu Museum of Art is endowed with the largest collection 
of Asian and Western art in Hawaii. It also has the largest collection 
of Islamic art, housed at the Shangri La estate. Since the merger of the 
Honolulu Academy of Arts and The Contemporary Museum, Honolulu (now called 
the Honolulu Museum of Art Spalding House) in 2011, the museum is also 
the only contemporary art museum in the state. The contemporary collections 
are housed at main campus (Spalding House) in Makiki and a multi-level 
gallery in downtown Honolulu at the First Hawaiian Center. The museum hosts 
a film and video program dedicated to arthouse and world cinema in the 
museum's Doris Duke Theatre, named for the academy's historic patroness 
Doris Duke. The Hawaii State Art Museum is also located in downtown Honolulu 
at No. 1 Capitol District Building and boasts a collection of art pieces 
created by local artists as well as traditional Hawaiian art. The museum 
is administered by the Hawaii State Foundation on Culture and the Arts. 
Recognized internationally as the premier cultural institution of Hawaii,[53] 
the Bishop Museum is the largest of Honolulu's museums.[54] It is endowed 
with the state's largest collection of natural history specimens and the 
world's largest collection of Hawaiiana and Pacific culture artifacts. 
The Honolulu Zoo is the main zoological institution in Hawaii while the 
Waikiki Aquarium is a working marine biology laboratory. The Waikiki Aquarium 
is partnered with the University of Hawaii and other universities worldwide. 
Established for appreciation and botany, Honolulu is home to several gardens: 
Foster Botanical Garden, Liliuokalani Botanical Garden, Walker Estate, 
among others. Currently, Honolulu has no professional sports teams. However, 
Honolulu hosts the NFL's annual Pro Bowl each February in addition to the 
NCAA football Hawaii Bowl. Games are hosted at Les Murakami and Hans L'Orange 
Park. Fans of spectator sports in Honolulu generally support the football, 
volleyball, basketball, and baseball programs of the University of Hawaii 
at Manoa. High school sporting events, especially football, are especially 
popular. Venues for spectator sports in Honolulu include: Honolulu's mild 
climate lends itself to year-round fitness activities as well. In 2004, 
Men's Fitness magazine named Honolulu the fittest city in the nation. Honolulu 
is home to three large road races: Honolulu County is home to numerous 
forms media including newspapers, magazines, radio and television. Honolulu 
County has sister city relationships with the following cities:[55] 38. 
^http://www.hawaiinewsnow.com/story/20419180/honolulu-mayor-elect-caldwell-to-be-sworn-in-jan-2 
Coordinates: 21°28′N 157°58′W﻿ / ﻿21.467°N 157.967°W﻿ / 21.467; -157.967 
