Johannes Peter "Honus" Wagner (/ˈhɒnəs ˈwæɡnər/; February 24, 1874 – December 
6, 1955[1]) was an American baseball shortstop who played 21 seasons in 
Major League Baseball from 1897 to 1917, almost entirely for the Pittsburgh 
Pirates. Wagner won eight batting titles, tied for the most in National 
League history with Tony Gwynn. He also led the league in slugging six 
times, and in stolen bases five times. Wagner was nicknamed "The Flying 
Dutchman" due to his superb speed and German heritage ("Dutch" in this 
instance being an alteration of "Deutsch"). This name was a nod to the 
popular folk-tale made into a famous opera by another Wagner. In 1936, 
the Baseball Hall of Fame inducted Wagner as one of the first five members. 
He received the second-highest vote total, behind Ty Cobb and tied with 
Babe Ruth. Although Cobb is frequently cited as the greatest player of 
the dead-ball era, some contemporaries regarded Wagner as the better all-around 
player, and most baseball historians consider Wagner to be the greatest 
shortstop ever. Cobb himself called Wagner "maybe the greatest star ever 
to take the diamond."[2] In addition, Wagner is the featured player of 
one of the rarest and most valuable baseball cards in the world. Wagner 
was born to German immigrants Peter and Katheryn Wagner in the borough 
of Chartiers, in what is now Carnegie, Pennsylvania.[3][4] Wagner was one 
of nine children. As a child, he was called Hans by his mother, which later 
evolved into Honus. "Hans" was also an alternate nickname during his major 
league career. Wagner dropped out of school at age 12 to help his father 
and brothers in the coal mines. In their free time, he and his brothers 
played sandlot baseball and developed their skills to such an extent that 
three of his brothers went on to become professionals as well.[5] Wagner's 
older brother, Albert "Butts" Wagner, who had a brief major league career 
himself, is often credited with getting Honus his first tryout. Butts persuaded 
his manager to take a look at his younger brother. Following his brother, 
Wagner trained to be a barber before becoming successful in baseball.[6] 
In 1916, Wagner married Bessie Baine Smith, and the couple would have three 
daughters, Elva Katrina (born 1918, stillborn), Betty Baine (born 1919), 
and Virginia Mae (born 1922).[7] Honus' brother Albert "Butts" Wagner was 
considered the ballplayer of the family. Albert suggested Honus in 1895 
when his Inter-State League team was in need of help. Wagner would play 
for five teams in that first year, in three different leagues over the 
course of 80 games. In 1896 Edward Barrow, from the Wheeling, West Virginia, 
team that Wagner was playing on, decided to take Honus with him to his 
next team, the Paterson Silk Sox (Atlantic League). Barrow proved to be 
a good talent scout, as Wagner could play wherever he was needed, including 
all three bases and the outfield. Wagner would hit .313 for Paterson in 
1896 and .375 in 74 games in 1897.[8] "At shortstop there is only one candidate, 
the immortal Honus Wagner. He was just head and shoulders above anyone 
else in that position. Fellows like Marion, Bancroft, Peck and Billy Jurges 
were all great fielders. But Honus could more than out-field all of them. 
He was perhaps the greatest right-handed hitter of all time. He had remarkably 
long arms, hams for hands, and just drew the ball to him. Ed Barrow once 
told me he could have been as good in any position but he made his greatest 
name as shortstop. He led the National League seven times at bat and he 
was always up with the leaders when he was in his forties." Recognizing 
that Wagner should be playing at the highest level, Barrow contacted the 
Louisville Colonels, who had finished last in the National League in 1896 
with a record of 38-93. They were doing better in 1897 when Barrow persuaded 
club president Barney Dreyfuss, club secretary Harry Pulliam, and outfielder-manager 
Fred Clarke to go to Paterson to see Wagner play. Dreyfuss and Clarke were 
not impressed with the awkward-looking man, not surprising, as Wagner was 
oddly built – 5-feet-11, 200 pounds, with a barrel chest, massive shoulders, 
heavily muscled arms, huge hands, and incredibly bowed legs that deprived 
him of any grace and several inches of height. Pulliam, though, persuaded 
Dreyfuss and Clarke to take a chance on him. Wagner debuted with Louisville 
on July 19, and hit .338 in 61 games. By his second season, Wagner was 
already one of the best hitters in the National League although he came 
up short a percentage point from finishing the season at .300. Following 
the 1899 season, the NL contracted from twelve to eight teams, with the 
Colonels one of four teams eliminated. Along with Wagner, owner Barney 
Dreyfuss, who had purchased half ownership in the Pirates, took many of 
his other top players with him to Pittsburgh. Tommy Leach recounted his 
impressions of joining the Louisville club in 1898 with hopes of winning 
the starting job at third base: I hardly had time to get settled before 
it hits me that this guy the Louisville club had at third base was practically 
doing the impossible. I'm sitting on the bench the first day I reported, 
and along about the third inning an opposing batter smacks a line drive 
down the third-base line that looked like at least a sure double. Well, 
this big Louisville third baseman jumped over after it like he was on steel 
springs, slapped it down with his bare hand, scrambled after it at least 
ten feet, and fired a bullet over to first base. The runner was out by 
two or three steps. I'm sitting on the bench and my eyes are popping out. 
So I poked the guy sitting next to me, and asked him who the devil that 
big fellow was on third base. "Why, that's Wagner," he says. "He's the 
best third baseman in the league." The move to the Pittsburgh Pirates signified 
Wagner's emergence as a premier hitter. In 1900, Wagner won his first batting 
championship with a .381 mark and also led the league in doubles (45), 
triples (22), and slugging percentage (.573), all of which were career 
highs. For the next couple of seasons, Wagner's average did not fall below 
.330. In 1901, the American League began to sign National League players, 
creating a bidding war, which depleted the league of many talented players. 
Wagner was offered a $20,000 contract by the Chicago White Sox, but turned 
it down and continued to play with the Pirates. Prior to 1904, Wagner had 
played several positions, but settled into the shortstop role full-time 
that season, where he became a skilled fielder. His biography on BaseballLibrary.com 
describes his gritty style: In 1898, Wagner won a distance contest in Louisville 
by throwing a baseball more than 403 feet.[11] In August 1899, he became 
the first player credited with stealing second base, third, and home in 
succession under the new rule differentiating between advanced bases and 
stolen bases. He repeated the feat in 1902, 1907, and 1909. Wagner retired 
with the National League record for most steals of home (27), which was 
broken by Greasy Neale in 1922. In September 1905, Wagner signed a contract 
to produce the first bat with a player's signature, the Louisville Slugger, 
becoming the first sportsperson to endorse a commercial product;[12] the 
Honus Wagner was to become a best-seller for years. One month later, with 
one point separating him from Reds center fielder Cy Seymour for the batting 
title, Wagner fell short in a head-to-head matchup on the final day of 
the season, with Seymour collecting four hits to Wagner's two, as contemporary 
press reports stated that the fans were far more interested in the Seymour-Wagner 
battle than in the outcome of the games. Shortly before the 1908 season, 
Wagner retired. Starting to panic, owner Barney Dreyfuss offered him $10,000, 
making him the highest paid Pirate for many years. He returned to the Pirates 
early in the 1908 season, and finished two home runs short of the league's 
Triple Crown, leading the league in hitting (for the sixth time)‚ hits‚ 
total bases‚ doubles‚ triples‚ RBI‚ and stolen bases. Wagner took over 
the batting lead from the New York Giants' flamboyant outfielder Mike Donlin 
during a July 25 game against the Giants and their star pitcher Christy 
Mathewson. Wagner was 5-for-5 in the game; after each hit, he reportedly 
held up another finger to Donlin, who went hitless, and who had just beaten 
runner-up Wagner by a wide margin in a "most popular player" poll. Bill 
James cites Wagner's 1908 season as the greatest single season for any 
player in baseball history. He notes that the league ERA of 2.35 was the 
lowest of the dead ball era and about half of the ERAs of modern baseball. 
Since Wagner hit .354 with 109 RBI in an environment when half as many 
runs were scored as today, he asks, "if you had a Gold Glove shortstop, 
like Wagner, who drove in 218 runs, what would he be worth?"[13] In 1903, 
the Pirates played the Boston Americans in Major League Baseball's inaugural 
World Series. Wagner, by this point, was an established star and much was 
expected of him, especially since the Pirates' starting rotation was decimated 
by injury. Wagner himself was not at full strength and hit only .222 for 
the series. The Americans, meanwhile, had some fans, called the "Royal 
Rooters" who, whenever Wagner came to bat, sang "Honus, Honus, why do you 
hit so badly?" to the tune of "Tessie", a popular song of the day. The 
Rooters, led by Boston bartender Michael "Nuf Ced" McGreevy, even travelled 
to Pittsburgh to continue their heckling. Pittsburgh lost in the best-of-nine 
series, five games to three, to a team led by pitchers Cy Young and Bill 
Dinneen and third baseman–manager Jimmy Collins. Christy Mathewson, in 
his book "Pitching in a Pinch" wrote: "For some time after "Hans" Wagner's 
poor showing in the world's series of 1903... it was reported that he was 
"yellow" (poor in the clutch). This grieved the Dutchman deeply, for I 
don't know a ball player in either league who would assay less quit to 
the ton than Wagner... This was the real tragedy in Wagner's career. Notwithstanding 
his stolid appearance, he is a sensitive player, and this has hurt him 
more than anything else in his life ever has."[14] Wagner was distraught 
by his performance. The following spring, he refused to send his portrait 
to a "Hall of Fame" for batting champions, citing his play in the World 
Series. "I was too bum last year", he wrote. "I was a joke in that Boston-Pittsburgh 
Series. What does it profit a man to hammer along and make a few hits when 
they are not needed only to fall down when it comes to a pinch? I would 
be ashamed to have my picture up now."[15] Wagner and the Pirates were 
given a chance to prove that they were not "yellow" in 1909. The Pirates 
faced Ty Cobb's Detroit Tigers. The series was the only meeting of the 
two superior batsmen of the day, and the first time that the batting champions 
of each league faced one another (this later occurred thrice more, in the 
1931, 1954 and 2012 World Series). Wagner was by this time 35 years old, 
Cobb just 22. This time, Wagner could not be stifled as he outhit Cobb, 
.333 to .231, and stole six bases, establishing the new Series record. 
The speed demon Cobb only managed two steals, one of which Cobb himself 
admitted was a botched call. Wagner recounted: "We had him out at second. 
We put up a squawk, but Silk O'Loughlin, the umpire, overruled it. We kept 
the squawk going for a minute or so, making no headway of course, and then 
Cobb spoke up. He turned to O'Loughlin, an American League umpire, by the 
way, and said, 'Of course I was out. They had me by a foot. You just booted 
the play, so come on, let's play ball.'"[16] There was also a story that 
was widely circulated over the years and famously recounted in Lawrence 
Ritter's The Glory of Their Times, that at one point Cobb was on first; 
he bragged to Wagner that he was going to steal second and threatened to 
assault him physically doing it; Wagner defiantly dared him to try it and 
placed an especially rough tag to Cobb's mouth; and the two exchanged choice 
words. Cobb denied it in his autobiography, and the play-by-play of the 
1909 World Series confirms that the event could not have happened as stated: 
Cobb was never tagged out by Wagner in a caught-stealing. The Pirates won 
the series four games to three behind the pitching of Babe Adams. In 1910, 
Wagner's average fell to .320, his lowest average since 1898. Nevertheless, 
he aged exceptionally well; the three highest OPS+ seasons by any shortstop 
aged 35 or older belong to Wagner, and even his age-41 season ranks 8th 
on the list. Wagner won the 1911 batting title by the narrowest of margins. 
He went hitless in a 1–0 win against the Cubs on May 30, but a successful 
league protest by the Cubs wiped out the result (and Wagner's at-bats). 
Wagner ended up edging the Boston Rustlers' Doc Miller, .334 to .333. The 
Pirates were in contention into August, but an ankle injury sidelined Wagner 
for 25 games and the team slid from the race. By 1912, Wagner was the oldest 
player in the National League. On June 9, 1914, at age 40, Wagner recorded 
his 3,000th hit, a double off Philadelphia's Erskine Mayer, the second 
player in baseball history to reach the figure, after Cap Anson, and Nap 
Lajoie joined them three months later. This accomplishment, however, came 
during a down period for Wagner and Pirates. Wagner hit only .252 in 1914, 
the lowest average of his career. In July 1915, he became the oldest player 
to hit a grand slam, a record which stood for 70 years until topped by 
43-year-old Tony Pérez. In 1916, Wagner became the oldest player to hit 
an inside-the-park home run. In 1917, following another retirement, Wagner 
returned for his final, abbreviated season. Returning in June, he was spiked 
in July and played only sparingly for the remainder of the year, batting 
.265. He briefly held the role of interim manager, but after going 1–4, 
Wagner told owner Dreyfuss the job was not for him. He retired as the NL's 
all-time hit leader, with 3,430. (Subsequent research has since revised 
this total to 3,418.) It took 45 years for St. Louis' Stan Musial to surpass 
Wagner's hit total. Wagner has been considered one of the very best all-around 
players to ever play baseball since the day he retired in 1917. Baseball 
historian and statistician Bill James named Honus Wagner as the second 
best player of all time after Babe Ruth, rating him as the best major league 
player in 1900 and each year from 1902 to 1908.[17][18] Statisticians John 
Thorn and Pete Palmer rate Wagner as ninth all-time in their "Total Player 
Ranking".[19] Many of the greats who played or managed against Wagner, 
including Babe Ruth, Ty Cobb, Rogers Hornsby, and Walter Johnson, list 
him at shortstop on their All-Time teams.[20] Wagner was not finished playing 
baseball after his retirement from major league baseball. He managed and 
played for a semi-pro team.[21] After retirement, Wagner served the Pirates 
as a coach for 39 years, most notably as a hitting instructor from 1933 
to 1952. Arky Vaughan, Ralph Kiner, Pie Traynor (player-manager from 1934–1939), 
and Hank Greenberg (although, Greenberg was in his final major league season 
in 1947, his only season with the Pirates, and very well established) all 
future Hall of Famers, were notable "pupils" of Wagner. During this time, 
he wore uniform number 14, but later changed it to his more famous 33, 
which was later the number retired for him. (His entire playing career 
was in the days before uniform numbers were worn.) His appearances at National 
League stadiums during his coaching years were always well received and 
Wagner remained a beloved ambassador of baseball. Wagner also coached baseball 
and basketball at what is now Carnegie Mellon University. In 1928, Wagner 
ran for sheriff of Allegheny County, Pennsylvania but lost. He was made 
deputy county sheriff in 1942. He also ran a well-known sporting goods 
company. A sporting goods store bearing the name "Honus Wagner" operated 
in downtown Pittsburgh for 93 years before closing permanently in 2011.[22] 
The Pirates hosted the 1944 Major League Baseball All-Star Game at Forbes 
Field. Wagner was invited to be an honorary coach for the National League 
squad, the first time this honor was bestowed in Major League Baseball's 
All-Star Game.[23] Wagner lived the remainder of his life in Pittsburgh, 
where he was well known as a friendly figure around town. He died on December 
6, 1955 at the age of 81, and he is buried at Jefferson Memorial Cemetery 
in the South Hills area of Pittsburgh. Wagner, along with his famous baseball 
card, was one of the earliest athletes to make the crossover into pop culture 
film. He starred as the sports hero in both 1919's Spring Fever and 1922's 
In the Name of the Law. More recently, he has been depicted as the subject 
of The Winning Season, as well as in a brief scene in the movie Cobb. When 
the Baseball Hall of Fame held its first election in 1936, Wagner tied 
for second in the voting with Babe Ruth, trailing Cobb. A 1942 Sporting 
News poll of 100 former players and managers confirmed this opinion, with 
Wagner finishing 43 votes behind Cobb and six ahead of Ruth. In 1969, on 
the 100th anniversary of professional baseball, a vote was taken to honor 
the greatest players ever, and Wagner was selected as the all-time shortstop. 
In 1999, 82 years after his last game and 44 years since his death, Wagner 
was voted Number 13 on The Sporting News' list of the 100 Greatest Players, 
where he was again the highest-ranking shortstop. That same year, he was 
selected to the Major League Baseball All-Century Team by the oversight 
committee, after losing out in the popular vote to Cal Ripken, Jr. and 
Ernie Banks.[24] Christy Mathewson asserted that Wagner was the only player 
he faced that did not have a weakness. Mathewson felt the only way to keep 
Wagner from hitting was to not pitch to him.[25] "A stirring march and 
two step", titled "Husky Hans", and "respectfully dedicated to Hans Wagner, 
Three time Champion Batsman of The National League" was written by William 
J. Hartz in 1904. Bill James says that Wagner is easily the greatest shortstop 
of all time, noting that the difference between Wagner and the second greatest 
shortstop, in James's estimation Arky Vaughan, is roughly the same as the 
gulf between Vaughan and the 20th greatest shortstop. Wagner is mentioned 
in the poem Line-Up for Yesterday by Ogden Nash. W is for Wagner, The bowlegged 
beauty; Short was closed to all traffic With Honus on duty. A life-size 
statue of Wagner swinging a bat, atop a marble pedestal featuring admiring 
children, was forged by a local sculptor named Frank Vittor, and placed 
outside the left field corner gate at Forbes Field. It was dedicated on 
April 30, 1955, and the then-frail Wagner was well enough to attend and 
wave to his many fans. The Pirates have relocated twice since then, and 
the statue has come along with them. It now stands outside the main gate 
of PNC Park. The statue roughly faces the site of the Pirates' original 
home, Exposition Park, so in a sense Wagner has come full circle. Wagner 
is honored in the form of a small stadium residing behind Carnegie Elementary 
School on Washington Avenue in Carnegie, Pennsylvania. The stadium serves 
as the home field for Carlynton High School varsity sports. In the 1992 
episode Homer at the Bat, the popular TV show The Simpsons made a reference 
to Wagner. The character Mr. Burns lists three ringers he wants for his 
company's baseball team, but they are Honus Wagner, Cap Anson, and "Mordecai 
'Three Fingers' Brown". His assistant has to point out that they are not 
only retired, but long-dead...Anson having played in the late 19th century. 
In 2000, Wagner was honored with a U.S. postage stamp. The stamp was issued 
as part of a "Legends of Baseball" series that honored twenty all-time 
greats in conjunction with MLB's All Century team. The T206 Honus Wagner 
baseball card is one of the rarest and most expensive baseball cards in 
the world, as only 57 copies are known to exist.[27] The card was designed 
and issued by the American Tobacco Company (ATC) from 1909 to 1911 as part 
of its T206 series. Wagner, a nonsmoker, refused to allow production of 
his baseball card to continue. The ATC ended production of the Wagner card 
and a total of only 57 to 200 cards were ever distributed to the public, 
as compared to the "tens or hundreds of thousands" of T206 cards, over 
three years in sixteen brands of cigarettes, for any other player.[28] 
In 1933, the card was first listed at a price value of US $50 in Jefferson 
Burdick's The American Card Catalog, making it the most expensive baseball 
card in the world at the time. The typical card in the T206 series had 
a width of 1 7⁄16 inches (3.7 cm) and a height of 2 5⁄8 inches (6.7 cm). 
Some cards were awkwardly shaped or irregularly sized, which prompted a 
belief that many of the cards in the series had been altered at one point 
or another. In his work Inside T206: A Collector Guide to the Classic Baseball 
Card Set, Scot A. Reader wrote that "[i]t is not at all uncommon to find 
T206 examples that have been altered at some point during their near-century 
of existence."[29] These discrepancies were taken advantage of by "card 
doctors" who trimmed corners and dirty edges to improve the appearance 
of the card. The front of all T206 series cards, including the Wagner card, 
displayed a lithograph of the player[30] created by a multi-stage printing 
process in which a number of colors were printed on top of each other to 
create a lithograph with the appropriate design. The backs of the cards 
featured the monochromatic colors of the 16 tobacco brands for which the 
cards were printed.[31] The Wagner cards in particular advertised the Piedmont 
and Sweet Caporal brands of cigarettes and were produced at Factory 25 
in Virginia, as indicated by the factory stamp imprinted on the back of 
the cards.[32] "When I was a boy growing up in Kansas, a friend of mine 
and I went fishing and as we sat there on the warmth of a summer afternoon 
we talked about what we wanted to do when we grew up. I told him I wanted 
to be a major league baseball player, a genuine professional like Honus 
Wagner. My friend said that he'd like to be president of the United States. 
Neither of us got our wish." Starting from January 1909, the ATC sought 
authorization from baseball players for inclusion in the T206 series, which 
featured 524 major league players, 76 of whom were later inducted into 
the Baseball Hall of Fame.[34][35] Wagner had been at the top of his game 
throughout the decade, and was even considered the game's greatest player 
at the time.[36] He had appeared on advertisements for a number of other 
products such as chewing gum, gunpowder and soft drinks. Unsurprisingly, 
the ATC asked for Wagner's permission to have his picture on a baseball 
card. According to an October 12, 1912 issue of The Sporting News, Wagner 
did not give his consent to appear on the baseball card. In response to 
the authorization request letter sent by John Gruber, a Pittsburgh sportswriter 
hired by the ATC to seek Wagner's permission, Wagner wrote that he "did 
not care to have his picture in a package of cigarettes." He threatened 
to seek legal action against ATC if they went ahead and created his baseball 
card.[37] A near-mint-condition T206 Wagner card sold in 2007 for $2.8 
million, the highest price ever for a baseball card. In 2010, a previously 
unknown copy of the card was donated to the School Sisters of Notre Dame 
in Baltimore. The card, which is in poor condition, sold in November 2010 
to a collector for $262,000, well over the $150,000 that was expected at 
auction. The card came with Sister Virginia Muller brother's handwritten 
note. "Although damaged, the value of this baseball card should increase 
exponentially throughout the 21st century!" [38] On April 20, 2012, a New 
Jersey resident purchased a VG-3 graded T206 Wagner card for more than 
$1.2 million.[39] On April 6, 2013, a 1909–11 T206 baseball card featuring 
Honus Wagner sold at auction for $2.1 million.[40] The card figured in 
the plot of the Nickelodeon film Swindle. The figures on Baseball-Reference.com 
are as follows.[41] Other private research sites may have different figures. 
Caught Stealing is not shown comprehensively for Wagner's MLB.com totals, 
because the stat was not regularly captured until 1920. Italics denotes 
