Horace Charles Stoneham (April 27, 1903 — January 7, 1990) was an American 
Major League Baseball executive and the owner of the New York/San Francisco 
Giants from 1936 to 1976. Inheriting the Giants, one of the flagship franchises 
of the National League, from his father, Charles, in 1936, he oversaw four 
pennant-winning teams in his first two decades as owner. Then, in 1958, 
he moved the Giants from New York City to San Francisco, one of two National 
League owners to bring Major League Baseball to the lucrative West Coast 
territory. Although the Giants won only one pennant (1962) and one division 
title (1971) in their first 15 years after moving to the Bay Area, they 
were a consistent contender that featured some of the era's biggest stars. 
But, during the mid-1970s, they declined in on-field success and suffered 
significant attendance losses, forcing Stoneham to sell the team in 1976. 
Born in Newark, New Jersey, Stoneham was educated at the Hun School of 
Princeton and the Trinity-Pawling School. He briefly attended Fordham University, 
but soon dropped out to work in a copper mine in California and begin, 
at his father's insistence, his apprenticeship as a baseball executive 
and future owner.[1] He worked on the Giants' grounds crew and in the ticket 
office and front office. When, at age 32, he succeeded to the team presidency 
on his father's death in January 1936, Stoneham became the youngest club 
owner in National League history.[1] His tenure witnessed three separate 
pennant-contending and -winning eras: the team that he inherited, the 1936–38 
Giants of Bill Terry, Carl Hubbell and Mel Ott; the 1949–55 teams of manager 
Leo Durocher, including Monte Irvin, Sal Maglie, Bobby Thomson and Willie 
Mays; and the star-studded Giants of 1959–71. During Stoneham's 41 years 
as owner, the Giants won National League pennants in 1936, 1937, 1951, 
1954 and 1962, a division title in 1971, and a World Series title in 1954. 
Stoneham employed at least two general managers during those four decades: 
Terry (1938–42), who doubled as the Giants' field manager through 1941, 
and Chub Feeney (1946–69), Stoneham's nephew, who became president of the 
National League (1970–86) after his December 1969 resignation. But Stoneham 
was known as a hands-on owner who was personally involved in player trades 
and transactions.[2] With the post-World War II Giants falling into in 
the league's second division, Stoneham boldly moved to replace the popular 
Ott as his manager with the hyper-competitive, abrasive Durocher on July 
16, 1948. Giant fans reviled Durocher as the pilot of the arch-rival Brooklyn 
Dodgers,[2] but he quickly produced an exciting, hard-playing team that—within 
2½ years, in 1951—won one of the most thrilling pennant races in history, 
capped by Thomson's come-from-behind, three-run walk-off home run in the 
final inning of the deciding game of the postseason playoff with the Dodgers. 
Durocher and Mays' 1954 Giants also took the NL flag, and won Stoneham's 
only World Series title with a four-game sweep over the Cleveland Indians. 
That season, Stoneham was hailed as The Sporting News' Executive of the 
Year in baseball. As it turned out, the 1954 World Series title was the 
last hurrah for Stoneham and the Giants in New York. Stoneham was alarmed 
by a dramatic drop-off in attendance during the 1950s. The 1947 Giants 
had drawn 1.6 million paying fans despite finishing fourth. But the 1951 
and 1954 pennant winners struggled to hit seven figures in home attendance, 
and mediocre 1956–57 Giants' teams had drawn fewer than 700,000 customers 
each season. It did not help matters that the Giants' park, the Polo Grounds, 
was not aging gracefully. The 46-year-old park, owned by Stoneham, had 
not been well maintained from the 1940s onward. Meanwhile, the area around 
the park (in Washington Heights in Upper Manhattan) was already going to 
seed.[3] All of these factors combined to hold down ticket sales. The thin 
gates hit Stoneham particularly hard since, unlike most of his fellow owners, 
the Giants and the Polo Grounds were his sole source of income. Stoneham's 
balance sheet took a further hit when the football Giants, who had spent 
their entire history as tenants of the baseball Giants, moved across the 
Harlem River to Yankee Stadium. In hopes of finding a way out, Stoneham 
briefly considered moving to the Bronx as tenants of the Yankees—possibly 
before his lease at the Polo Grounds ran out in 1962. Ironically, the Yanks 
had been tenants of the Giants at the Polo Grounds from 1913 to 1922.[3] 
However, impressed by the success of the Braves after their 1953 shift 
from Boston to Milwaukee, Stoneham decided to move his Giants to Minneapolis. 
He intended to set up shop in Metropolitan Stadium, which had just been 
constructed in nearby Bloomington for his Triple-A farm team, the Minneapolis 
Millers. The stadium had been built to Major-League specifications with 
the help of public funds, and Stoneham had declared there were at most 
two big-league parks that were better. Under baseball rules of the time, 
the Giants shared the MLB rights to the Twin Cities with the Dodgers, whose 
farm team was the Millers' main rival, the St. Paul Saints. Stoneham confided 
his plan to Dodgers owner Walter O'Malley, who then revealed that he was 
negotiating to transfer the Dodgers from Brooklyn to Los Angeles. He suggested 
that Stoneham contact San Francisco Mayor George Christopher and explore 
moving his team there to preserve the teams' bitter rivalry. Stoneham soon 
abandoned his Minnesota plan and shifted his attention, permanently, to 
San Francisco. In 1961, the Twin Cities succeeded in getting their own 
big-league team when the first incarnation of the Washington Senators moved 
there as the Minnesota Twins. Stoneham and O'Malley were vilified by New 
York baseball fans when their teams' boards approved the moves to the West 
Coast. Stoneham was confronted by fans both angry—they chanted, after their 
last home game on September 29: "We want Stoneham! With a rope around his 
neck!"[4]—and grief-stricken. Earlier, after meeting with a group of weeping 
youngsters who begged the team to stay, Stoneham was moved, but said: "I 
feel bad for the kids, I've seen lots of them at the Polo Grounds. But 
I haven't seen many of their fathers lately."[5] (In his book Five Seasons, 
Roger Angell quotes Stoneham as saying, "The last day we played [at the 
Polo Grounds], I couldn't go to the game. I just didn't want to see it 
all end.") Writer Roger Kahn said years later, during promotional tours 
for his book The Era 1947–57, that the deteriorating condition of the Polo 
Grounds, as well as the Giants' shrinking fan base, made it necessary for 
Stoneham to abandon New York. He noted, however, that the Dodgers—a year 
removed from the 1956 pennant and two from Brooklyn's first world championship—were 
still profitable and O'Malley's move West was motivated by a desire for 
even greater riches. The Giants' transfer to San Francisco was initially 
a rousing success. The team began to play winning baseball and drew 1.27 
and 1.42 million fans playing in a tiny (22,900 capacity) minor league 
ballpark, Seals Stadium, in 1958–59. Then the Giants moved to brand-new 
Candlestick Park in 1960 and attendance rose above 1.75 million fans. (Meanwhile, 
the National League returned to New York in 1962, with an expansion team, 
the Mets.) While Stoneham's San Francisco club produced only one pennant 
(in 1962), one National League West Division title (1971), and no World 
Series triumphs, the Giants of the late 1950s and 1960s were one of the 
most talented assemblages in the National League. They included five Hall 
of Famers—Willie Mays, Willie McCovey, Juan Marichal, Orlando Cepeda and 
Gaylord Perry—and many other stars. The Giants were the first big league 
team to heavily scout and sign players from the Dominican Republic and 
brought the first Japanese player, pitcher Masanori Murakami, to the Majors 
in 1964. But the National League was so powerful and competitive—it had 
far outpaced the American League in signing African-American and Latin 
American players—the Giants had only one pennant to show for a decade-plus 
of contention. In 1962, the team won 101 games and forced another best-of-three 
playoff with the Dodgers, then prevailed in the final inning of the decisive 
third game. In another echo of 1951, they were defeated by the Yankees 
in the World Series. Stoneham was partially to blame for the Giants' lack 
of sustained dominance, as he squandered the resources of his productive 
farm system through a series of poorly advised trades, usually for starting 
pitchers who could complement Marichal and Perry. He also hired as his 
manager from 1961–64 Alvin Dark, who had a brilliant baseball mind but 
a poor relationship with at least some of his minority players. Dark was 
fired after the 1964 Giants fell just short in a wild, end-of-season pennant 
race; almost as notably, his dismissal came after he had made well-publicized 
and derogatory remarks to the press about Latin ballplayers during the 
season. (Dark later said he was misquoted.)[6] Longtime Durocher aide Herman 
Franks, Dark's successor, then produced four consecutive second-place finishes 
through 1968. In 1971, Mays' final full season with San Francisco, the 
Giants roared to an early lead in the NL West, winning 37 of their first 
51 games to build a 10½-game margin over the Dodgers through May 31. Then 
they fell to earth, going only 53–58 for the rest of the season. Still, 
they prevailed by a single game over Los Angeles to become division champions. 
In the 1971 National League Championship Series, however, the eventual 
world champion Pittsburgh Pirates handled Stoneham's club in four games. 
In 1959, Stoneham began developing a spring training facility for the San 
Francisco Giants at Francisco Grande, in Casa Grande, Arizona. Francisco 
Grande hosted its first exhibition game in 1961, where Willie Mays hit 
a 375-foot home run in the fourth inning. Francisco Grande, now a hotel 
and golf resort, still houses various memorabilia of the San Francisco 
Giants of the 1960s. After their initial success, Stoneham's Giants fell 
on hard times after 1971. The arrival of the cross-bay Oakland Athletics 
in 1968 split the market. The Athletics themselves struggled at the turnstiles, 
leading to doubts about whether the Bay Area was big enough for two MLB 
teams. Attendance at cold and windy Candlestick Park plummeted after 1971 
to levels even below those at the Polo Grounds in the mid-1950s; during 
Stoneham's final five years as owner, only in 1973 did the Giants draw 
more than 648,000 fans, causing Stoneham financial hardship. This was the 
same situation that forced him to move to San Francisco almost 20 years 
earlier. Finally, in 1976, he put the team up for sale. The Giants very 
nearly moved back east, to Toronto, when a deal with Canadian investors 
seemed imminent. In addition, it was briefly rumored that they might return 
to the metropolitan New York area, perhaps to a new baseball stadium in 
the New Jersey Meadowlands. But local real estate magnate Bob Lurie stepped 
in as the buyer, and the Giants remained in Northern California. Additionally, 
there was another unsuccessful attempt in 1992 to move the team to Tampa 
Bay. Both Toronto and Tampa eventually secured American League expansion 
