Route map: Bing / Google Houston Street (/ˈhaʊstən/ HOW-stən) is a major 
east-west thoroughfare in downtown Manhattan, running crosstown across 
the full width of the island of Manhattan, from Franklin D. Roosevelt East 
River Drive (FDR Drive) and East River Park on the East River to Pier 40 
and West Street on the Hudson River. It generally serves as the boundary 
between neighborhoods, with Alphabet City, the East Village, NoHo, Greenwich 
Village, and the West Village lying to the north of the street, and the 
Lower East Side, most of the Bowery, Nolita, and SoHo to the south. The 
numeric street-naming grid in Manhattan, created as part of the Commissioners' 
Plan of 1811, begins immediately north of Houston Street with 1st Street 
at Avenue A, although the grid does not fully come into effect until 13th 
Street.[1] The street's name is pronounced "HOW-stən", unlike that of the 
city of Houston in Texas, which is pronounced "HYOO-stən". This is because 
the street was named for William Houstoun, whereas the city was named for 
Sam Houston.[2] At its east end, Houston Street meets FDR Drive in an interchange 
at East River Park. West of FDR Drive it intersects with Avenue D. Further 
west, other streets, including First Avenue, the Bowery, Lafayette Street 
and Broadway, intersect Houston Street. The Broadway intersection is the 
division point between East Houston Street and West Houston Street. Sixth 
Avenue intersects Houston Street at a curve in the road in Greenwich Village. 
East of Sixth Avenue, Houston street is bidirectional and separated by 
a median; west of Sixth, the street is narrower and unidirectional westbound.[3] 
West Houston Street terminates at an intersection with West Street near 
Pier 40 on the Hudson River. Houston Street is named for William Houstoun, 
who was a delegate from State of Georgia to the Continental Congress from 
1784 through 1786 and to the Constitutional Convention in 1787.[1] The 
street was christened by Nicholas Bayard III, whose daughter, Mary, was 
married to Houstoun in 1788.[4] The couple met while Houstoun, a member 
of an ancient and aristocratic Scottish family, was serving in the Congress. 
Bayard cut the street through a tract he owned in the vicinity of Canal 
Street in which he lived, and the city later extended it to include North 
Street, the northern border of New York's east side at the beginning of 
the 19th century.[4] The current spelling of the name is a corruption: 
the street appears as Houstoun in the city's Common Council minutes for 
1808 and the official map drawn in 1811 to establish the street grid that 
is still current. In those years, the Texas hero Sam Houston, for whom 
the street is sometimes incorrectly said to have been named, was an unknown 
teenager in Tennessee.[1] Also mistaken is the explanation that the name 
derives from the Dutch words huis for house and tuin for garden.[4] The 
narrow, westernmost stretch of the current Houston Street, from Sixth Avenue 
to the West Side Highway, was known as "Hammersley Street" (also spelled 
"Hamersly Street") until the middle 19th century,[5] and was inside Greenwich 
Village. It later came to be regarded as the Village's southern boundary. 
In 1891, Nikola Tesla established his Houston Street laboratory. Much of 
Tesla's research was lost in an 1895 fire. The street, originally narrow, 
was markedly widened from Sixth Avenue to Essex Street in the early 1930s 
during construction of the Independent Subway System's Sixth Avenue Line. 
The street widening involved demolition of buildings on both sides of the 
street, resulting in numerous small, empty lots.[6] Although some of these 
lots have been redeveloped, many of them are now used by vendors, and some 
have been turned into playgrounds and, more recently, community gardens. 
Lower Manhattan's SoHo district takes its name from an acronym for "South 
of Houston", as the street serves as SoHo's northern boundary; another, 
narrower neighborhood north of Houston Street is correspondingly called 
NoHo. A reconstruction project has been rebuilding parts of the street 
since 2005; it is nearly complete as of 2014[update].[7] As of 2010[update], 
Houston Street is served by the M21 New York City Bus route from the FDR 
Drive to Washington Street.[8] The bus route itself had replaced an earlier 
streetcar line, which is now the M9 from Avenues A to C. A portion of the 
New York City Subway's IND Sixth Avenue Line runs under Houston Street, 
between Sixth Avenue to just before Avenue A;[9] there are stations at 
Second Avenue (F train) and Broadway – Lafayette Street (B D F M trains). 
Additionally, there is a station at Seventh Avenue, for the Houston Street 
(1 2 trains).[10] The Bleecker Street station (4 6 <6> trains) has station 
entrances on the north side of Houston Street, due to its connection with 
the Broadway – Lafayette Street station as part of a larger station complex.[11] 
Exit 5 on the FDR Drive is on Houston Street. The street also connects 
directly with West Street and the West Side Highway; however, by then, 
Houston Street is westbound-only. East River Park, as seen from Houston 
Street Katz's Deli, at Ludlow Street, was founded in 1888 Houston Street 
at the northeast corner of its intersection with the Bowery in 2008, including 
part of a mural dedicated to Keith Haring Statue of Puck on the Mulberry 
Street corner of the Puck Building Forrest Myers' The Wall, also known 
as "Gateway to Soho", at Houston Street and Broadway The Angelika Film 
Center in the Cable Building at Mercer Street Continuing west through Sixth 
