Houston Cougars is the name given to the sports teams of the University 
of Houston. Informally, the Houston Cougars have also been referred to 
as the Coogs,[2] UH, or simply Houston. Houston's nickname was created 
by early physical education instructor of the university and former head 
football coach of the Washington State Cougars John R. Bender, as he had 
grown fond of the name during his time there. The teams compete in the 
NCAA's Division I and the Football Bowl Subdivision as members of the American 
Athletic Conference. The official school colors of the University of Houston 
are scarlet red and albino white, and the mascot is a cougar named Shasta. 
Houston's traditional rival has been Rice with whom the Cougars shared 
a conference for thirty-three non-consecutive years (see also Houston–Rice 
rivalry). Houston has had notable sports teams in its history, including 
Phi Slama Jama and the sixteen-time national champion men's golf team. 
The university's campus is home to many on-campus athletic facilities including 
TDECU Stadium (on the site of the former Robertson Stadium), Hofheinz Pavilion, 
and Darryl & Lori Schroeder Park. Prior to 1960, Houston was a member of 
several athletic conferences including the Lone Star Conference, Gulf Coast 
Conference, and Missouri Valley Conference. From 1960 until 1971, Houston 
competed as an independent. From 1971 until 1996, Houston's sports teams 
were a part of the Southwest Conference. After the dissolution of that 
conference in 1996, the Cougars became charter members of Conference USA. 
Houston remained a member of Conference USA until 2013, when they joined 
their current conference. The University of Houston competes with teams 
in the following sports: Men's sports: Women's sports: The most recently 
added sport was women's golf. Two players represented UH as individuals 
in the 2014 season (played during the 2013–14 school year), and a complete 
team was formed starting in the 2014–15 season.[3] UH fielded its first 
varsity intercollegiate football team in 1946. The Houston Cougars football 
team currently competes in the NCAA Division I Football Bowl Subdivision. 
After completing 18 seasons in C-USA in 2012, the Cougars joined the American 
Athletic Conference in 2013. The team played its home games at Robertson 
Stadium before it was closed and demolished after the 2012 season. The 
Cougars divided their home schedule in their first AAC season between Reliant 
Stadium and BBVA Compass Stadium; the new TDECU Stadium opened on the Robertson 
Stadium site in 2014. The Cougars are currently coached by Tom Herman, 
who coached his first full season with the team in 2015. He replaced Tony 
Levine, who was fired at the end of the 2014 regular season. The Houston 
Cougars men's basketball team represents the University of Houston in NCAA 
Division I men's basketball competition. The Cougars Men's basketball team 
plays in the American Athletic Conference. The team last played in the 
NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Tournament in 2010. The Cougars are currently 
coached by Kelvin Sampson and play in Hofheinz Pavilion. Notable players 
for the UH Men's basketball team include Basketball Hall of Famers Hakeem 
Olajuwon and Clyde Drexler (who would win two and one NBA Championships 
respectively, both for the hometown Houston Rockets in 1994–95, with Olajuwon 
being the Finals MVP for both titles) and also were part of the legendary 
Cougars fraternity Phi Slama Jama, as well as Otis Birdsong and Hall of 
Famer Elvin Hayes (who would win one NBA Championship with the Washington 
Bullets in 1978). Each of these players has had their number retired. Notable 
coaches for the Cougars are Guy Lewis and Clyde Drexler. Notable games 
for the Cougars include the first nationally syndicated NCAA basketball 
game, the Game of the Century. Along with the university's other athletic 
teams, the baseball team is a member of the American Athletic Conference 
as a Division I team. They play their home games at Darryl & Lori Schroeder 
Park and are currently coached by Todd Whitting. The Houston Cougars baseball 
program has appeared in numerous NCAA Regionals, Super Regionals, and College 
World Series. Houston has won 17 NCAA team national championships.[4] The 
University of Houston Rugby Club plays college rugby in the Division I-A 
Southwest Conference (SWC) against traditional rivals such as Rice University. 
The UH Rugby Club previously played Division III college rugby.[5] The 
UH Rugby Club is a registered organization sponsored by the UH campus recreation 
department.[6] Houston's most meaningful current rivalry is with cross-town 
Rice University, which is a member of Conference USA. The Cougars and Rice Owls 
have competed in football, annually with a few exceptions, for a trophy 
known as the "Bayou Bucket", referencing one of the city of Houston's nicknames 
as the "Bayou City." Historically, the University of Texas was one of Houston's 
principal rivals, especially after Houston joined the now-defunct Southwest 
Conference. This rivalry gave rise to the Houston Cougar Paw tradition.[7] 
Most of the university's major sports facilities are located along Cullen 
Boulevard, the central traffic artery through the campus. At times in the 
past, some of the university's teams have played their home games at off-campus 
venues such as the Astrodome and Rice Stadium. The men's golf program competes 
off campus because it does not have a dedicated golf course on campus. 
University of Houston's current sports facilities include the following:[8] 
The Houston Dynamo of Major League Soccer was a tenant at Robertson Stadium 
until 2011. The stadium hosted the MLS Western Conference Final in 2006 
