Official website The Israelite House of David (often referred to as The 
House of David) is a religious society co-founded by Benjamin and Mary 
Purnell in Benton Harbor, Michigan, in March 1903.[1] In 1888 the Purnells 
discovered a group of preachers extolling a man named James Jershom Jezreel 
as the Sixth Messenger. Jezrel had published three books known as Extracts 
from the Flying Roll. While the preachers were in Richmond, Benjamin and 
Mary joined their group, known as "the Visitation Movement", which was 
started by a woman named Joanna Southcott, the First Messenger (Angel), 
in 1792. While studying the writings of Jezreel they noticed that the Seventh 
and last Messenger was soon to be on the scene, which is mentioned in Revelation 
10:7. On March 12, 1895, the Purnells announced that the spirit of Shiloh 
had bonded with them to become the seventh and last messenger. The House 
of David was formed by Benjamin and Mary Purnell in 1903 after settling 
in Benton Harbor, Michigan.[1] Prior to that, the Purnells lived in Fostoria, 
Ohio and had two children, one of whom died in a firework factory explosion 
at the age of 16. The Purnells were looked down upon by residents of the 
city when they decided to forego the funeral due to their beliefs of not 
having anything to do with the dead.[1] The House of David colony soon 
had several hundred members. In 1906, the House owned about 1,000 acres, 
on which the colony harvested fruit from a dozen orchards and cultivated 
grain. The commune had its own cannery, carpenter shop, coach factory, 
tailor shop, and steam laundry. They also owned and operated their own 
electricity plant, providing lighting to the community. It had three brass 
bands and two orchestras, and a zoological garden.[2] Accusations arose 
in the 1920s towards Benjamin F. Purnell by 13 young women confessing, 
under oaths to the courts, that they had sexual relations with the patriarch 
while still minors. As soon as this became public knowledge, the Detroit 
Free Press and other newspapers ran critical articles about Purnell, who 
subsequently died in 1927. One group, headed by Mary Purnell, remained 
together and in 1930 purchased a small plot of land. There they rebuilt 
and reorganized the New Israelite House of David, better known as Mary's 
City of David; it remained in existence until her death at the age of 90. 
A second faction, the Old House of David led by Judge T. H. Dewhirst, had 
350 members in 1935, 24 of whom were clergy, and in 1955 had 150 members 
with 10 clergy.[3] (As of 2010, the group was reported to have three surviving 
members.[4]) Dewhirst's faction believed that Mary Purnell had no right 
to usurp authority over the community, as it was led by his own self-appointed 
council of elders. Purnell was a sports enthusiast and encouraged the members 
of the Israelite Community to play sports, especially baseball, to build 
physical and spiritual discipline. In 1913, the Israelite House of David 
began to play competitive baseball and by 1915, they were following a grueling 
schedule. The House of David became famous as a barnstorming baseball team 
which toured rural America from the 1920s through the 1950s, playing amateur 
and semi-pro teams in exhibition games. They were motivated by the need 
to make money for their families and colony back home and by the opportunity 
to share their beliefs. The team members wore long hair and beards as they 
played. By the late 1920s, needing more skilled players, the House began 
hiring professionals, the most notable being Grover Cleveland Alexander, 
Satchel Paige, and Mordecai Brown. Some professional players grew their 
beards out to show respect towards the God of Israel, while others wore 
false beards. They were known for their skill and played against some of 
the greatest teams in the country. The House of David played against Major 
League, Minor League, independent and Negro League teams, with all the 
same spirit of competition and fair play. At one point, the community had 
three separate barnstorming teams touring the country, playing and evangelizing 
wherever they went. The House of David teams were famous for inventing 
"pepper" baseball tricks, along the lines of the fancy basketball moves 
of the Harlem Globetrotters. The House of David continued to sponsor barnstorming 
teams well into the 1930s and then sponsored weekend semi-professional 
teams until the 1940s. Mary's City of David sent out barnstorming teams 
from 1930 until 1940 and then again from 1946 until 1955. Throughout this 
period, there were numerous teams which bore the House of David name and 
wore beards. The most famous was probably the Black House of David, an 
all African-American "Barn-storming" team that played solely against teams 
of the Negro Leagues. The House of David was the inspiration behind the 
James Sturm graphic novel, The Golem's Mighty Swing (in which the team 
was called the "Stars of David") as well as Harry Turtledove's novel The 
House of Daniel. The House of David was also featured in a segment of Ken 
Burns' Baseball and in the movie The Winning Team (1952) about the life 
of pitcher Grover Cleveland Alexander. A vintage base ball club (the House 
of David Echoes BBC) has been honoring the legacy of the House of David 
teams since 2001, playing vintage base ball under the 1858 rules while 
growing their beards and playing at historic Eastman Field near Benton 
Harbor, Michigan. For the 2016 season, the Echoes moved to the original 
1914 baseball field at Eden Springs Park, and will continue to use the 
field for the foreseeable future. The organization also fielded nationally 
known musical bands[5] between 1906 and 1927. These bands toured the country 
almost non-stop on the three top vaudeville circuits: the Pantages, the 
Keith and the Orpheum. The House of David operated a world-famous zoo and 
amusement park in Benton Harbor, Michigan.[6] It also established "The 
Springs of Eden Park" which became a popular Michigan vacation spot in 
the 1930s. A revamped version[7] opened in late 2011,[8] making it one 
of only a few known American amusement park to have been successfully (as 
of 2015) reopened.[9] One of the main attractions at The Springs of Eden 
Park was the coal powered miniature locomotives, purchased in 1908. Members 
of the commune originally observed similar locomotives at the 1904 Worlds 
Fair in St. Louis.[10] The trains were used to carry people to the amusement 
park from the main entrance to the commune on Britain Avenue.[11] Additional 
amusement at the park included miniature racing cars, restaurant, penny 
arcade, pony rides, and dances and shows at the amphitheater.[11] The park 
closed in the 1970s and the land left fallow. In 2000, one of the trains 
was purchased by the Northwest Ohio Railroad Preservation Group, refurbished 
and in use at a railway museum in Findlay, Ohio.[11] Siriano, Christopher 
(2007). The House of David. Images of America]. Arcadia Publishing. p. 127. 
