Baptist General Convention of Texas Houston Baptist University (HBU) is 
a private Baptist university founded in 1960. It is located in the Southwest 
Management District (formerly Greater Sharpstown) in Houston, Texas, near 
the Southwest Freeway.[1][2] The Cultural Arts Center houses three museums: 
the Dunham Bible Museum, the Museum of American Architecture and Decorative 
Arts, and the Museum of Southern History. Houston Baptist College was created 
by action of the Baptist General Convention of Texas on November 15, 1960, 
culminating many years of work and study. The aim of the college founders 
was the establishment of a Christian college of the highest order in the 
city of Houston that stressed quality of life and higher education. In 
1952, the Union Baptist Association authorized a committee to study the 
possibility of locating a Baptist college in Houston. With the assistance 
and encouragement of the Education Commission of the Baptist General Convention 
of Texas, the committee conducted a survey in 1955. Acting upon information 
obtained with the endorsement of the Education Commission, the Association 
approved the concept of establishing a new college. In 1956, the Executive 
Board of the Baptist General Convention of Texas approved a recommendation 
that Houston Baptists be given assurance that the Convention would support 
such a college when the College Committee of the Union Baptist Association 
had succeeded in acquiring both (1) a satisfactory site for a campus of 
at least 100 acres, and (2) a minimum corpus of at least $3 million. Of 
this sum, one and one-half million dollars would constitute a nucleus endowment 
fund; $1.5 million would be designated for a physical plant. The Union 
Baptist Association accepted these conditions and endorsed the requirements 
set up by the state Baptist convention. In 1957, a Houston land developer, 
Frank Sharp, offered to sell Union Baptist Association 390 acres (1.6 km2) 
in southwest Houston for the construction of a college. The Board of Governors 
of Rice University agreed to lend most of the money needed with the land 
as collateral. To complete the funding, twenty-five business men, since 
called "founders", pledged to be responsible for $10,000 each. Therefore, 
by 1958, a campus site of 196 acres (0.79 km2) was acquired in southwest 
Houston, and, in 1960, the initial financial goal of repaying the loan 
was reached as a result of a campaign among the churches. Much of the land 
was used to build for-profit housing, much of which included the development 
that will later become the seeds for the Sharpstown community, and the 
Memorial-Hermann Southwest hospital, land that is still property of HBU. 
In 1960, the Baptist General Convention of Texas in its annual session 
at Lubbock, Texas, elected the first Board of Trustees. This board in session 
in Houston, Texas, on November 15, 1960, approved and signed the college 
charter. The next day, this charter was ratified and recorded with the 
Secretary of State in Austin. The way was then cleared to select administrative 
officers, develop a suitable physical plant, and design an appropriate 
academic program. Dr. W. H. Hinton began service as the first president 
of the college on July 1, 1962. The college opened in September 1963 with 
a freshman class of 193 students, a cluster of new buildings, and a teaching 
staff of 30 faculty. A new class was added each year until the college 
attained a four-year program in 1966-67. By then, the full-time faculty 
had grown to 54 members, serving an enrollment of approximately nine hundred 
undergraduate students. Among the faculty was historian Marilyn McAdams 
Sibley, who received her Ph.D. from Rice University.[3] A history of the 
university's first 50 years was published in 2010. An Act of Providence: 
Houston Baptist University 1960-2010, written by Vice President Emeritus 
Dr. Don Looser, was awarded the Institutional History Award in 2011. A 
wide variety of undergraduate majors are offered and pre-professional programs 
range from Biblical Languages to Nursing. All classes are faculty-taught 
and more than half the classes have fewer than 20 students. HBU also offers 
graduate programs in business, Christian counseling, psychology, the liberal 
arts, visual arts, and education. The Reuben & Rebecca Bates Philips Residence 
Colleges for Men and Women[4] are two separate residence hall facilities 
for freshmen, with each serving one gender. The Sadie & Doug Hodo Residence 
College[5] is the largest single residential building on campus that houses 
both genders on opposing sides of the building. Husky Village,[6] seven 
apartment buildings with various layouts, are usually reserved for the 
university and house mostly upper classmen and staff. 80 Community Life 
and Worship Credits (CLW Credits) are required for graduation from HBU. 
Up to 20 may be earned per semester. Transfer students are also allotted 
0.75 CLW Credits for each credit hour transferred into the university. 
CLW Credits may be accrued from a variety of opportunities including: campus 
service, a weekly traditional chapel service known as Convocation, a weekly 
student-led contemporary worship service known as Quest, small group Bible 
studies, lecture series and through the Assisting Communities Through Students 
office which coordinates community service and volunteer work in the Houston 
community. The on-campus "Community Life and Worship" biyearly magazine 
lists the different opportunities through which students may earn CLW Credits. 
The spiritual life office also awards Credits for students who participate 
in church or university sponsored mission trips. Read more about HBU's 
CLW program. Houston Baptist is a member of the Southland Conference. They 
joined the league in 2013. From 2008-2013, Houston Baptist competed as 
a member of the Great West Conference, winning the league's final championship 
at the 2013 GWC Baseball Tournament. The Great West, which had previously 
been a football-only conference, expanded on July 10, 2008, to become an 
all-sports conference. HBU accepted an invitation to join the newly expanded 
conference along with NJIT, North Dakota, South Dakota, University of Texas–Pan 
American and Utah Valley University. HBU, which was a member of NCAA Division 
I until moving to the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics 
(NAIA) in 1989, began its transition back to Division I in 2007-08. The 
Huskies field teams in 17 sports. Men: Basketball, Baseball, Football, 
Soccer, Indoor Track and Field, Outdoor Track and Field, Cross-Country, 
Golf Women: Basketball, Softball, Volleyball, Beach Volleyball, Soccer, 
Indoor Track and Field, Outdoor Track and Field, Cross Country, Golf The 
HBU baseball team participated in the 2015 NCAA Baseball Tournament, winning 
the Southland Conference Tournament championship in Sugar Land, Texas, 
and advanced to the Houston Regional, hosted by the University of Houston. 
Women's soccer participated in the 2014 NCAA Tournament, winning the Southland 
Conference Tournament championship in Beaumont, Texas, before falling to 
No. 5 Texas A&M in the first round. During the 2016 Southland Conference 
Women's Basketball Tournament, senior Anna Strickland posted 21 points, 
31 rebounds, eight assists, and seven blocked shots in the Huskies' first-round 
loss to Lamar University. Her 31 rebounds broke the Southland Conference 
single-game record, established a new tournament record, and were the most 
rebounds in Division I women's basketball in 2016. Strickland's all-around 
stat sheet has not been achieved in men's or women's Division I basketball 
or the NBA in the past twenty years. Two student athletes have earned CoSIDA 
Academic All-American status: volleyball's Allison Doerpinghaus and men's 
soccer's Bryan Brody. Both students earned the honor in 2015. They join 
numerous student-athletes who have earned CoSIDA Academic All-District 
and academic all-conference honors, and numerous Academic All-American 
at the NIAA level. Notable NCAA D-1 athletic achievements: Notable NAIA 
athletic achievements: Official University websites: Coordinates: 29°41′38″N 
