Howard Beach is an upper middle class neighborhood in the southwestern 
portion of the New York City borough of Queens. It is bordered in the north 
by the Belt Parkway and South Conduit Avenue in Ozone Park, in the south 
by Jamaica Bay in Broad Channel, in the east by 102nd–104th Streets, and 
in the west by 75th Street. The area's houses are similar to Bayside and 
Hollis. The neighborhood is part of Queens Community District 10, served 
by Queens Community Board 10.[1] It is home to a large Italian-American 
population.[2] The ZIP code of Howard Beach is 11414. Howard Beach was 
established in 1897 by William J. Howard, a Brooklyn glove manufacturer 
who operated a 150-acre (0.61 km²) goat farm on meadow land near Aqueduct 
Racetrack as a source of skin for kidd gloves. In 1897, he bought more 
land and filled it in and the following year, built 18 cottages and opened 
a hotel near the water, which he operated until it was destroyed by fire 
in October 1907. He gradually bought more land and formed the Howard Estates 
Development Company in 1909. He dredged and filled the land until he was 
able to accumulate 500 acres (2 km²) by 1914. He laid out several streets, 
water mains and gas mains, and built 35 houses that were priced in the 
$2,500–$5,000 range. The Long Island Rail Road established a station named 
Ramblersville in 1905 and a Post Office by the same name opened soon thereafter. 
A casino, beach, and fishing pier were added in 1915 and the name of the 
neighborhood was changed to Howard Beach on April 6, 1916. Development 
continued and ownership was expanded to a group of investors who sold lots 
for about $690 each starting in 1922. Development, however, was limited 
to the areas east of Cross Bay Boulevard near the LIRR station now known 
as Bernard Coleman Memorial Square (then Lilly Place). The rest of Howard 
Beach consisted of empty marsh land except for the area to the south of 
Coleman Square, centered around Russell St. and 102nd St., which consisted 
of many small fishing bungalows that dotted alongside Hawtree Creek and 
Jamaica Bay. This area of Howard Beach would retain the name "Ramblersville." 
Despite its close proximity to the Howard Beach station at Coleman Square, 
the LIRR would establish a station a quarter of a mile south down the line 
at Hamilton Beach in 1919. After World War II, Queens and Long Island went 
through a major suburban building boom leading to the marsh land west of 
Cross Bay Boulevard to be filled in. This led to the development of many 
Cape-Cod and High-Ranch style houses on 50 and 60 x 100 lots. This area 
was developed as "Rockwood Park" to the north and "Spring Park" to the 
south, together comprising what would be known as "New Howard Beach", while 
the area east of the boulevard became known as "Old Howard Beach." In the 
early 1950s, farm land north of Rockwood Park was developed with the building 
of many red bricked two-story garden style cooperative apartments along 
with some six-story co-op and condo apartment buildings. A number of private 
two-family houses were also built in this neighborhood, which was named 
Lindenwood. The various neighborhoods continued to be developed through 
the 1960s and 1970s as Cross Bay Boulevard became the area's main shopping 
district. During the 1990s and 2000s, there was further high-scale development 
as many of the area's old houses were torn down and replaced with upscale 
million-dollar mini-mansions. In 1986 and 2005, Howard Beach experienced 
two well-publicized hate crime incidents. On December 20, 1986, one African-American 
man was killed and another was beaten in Howard Beach, in a racially charged 
incident that heightened racial tensions in New York City. The dead man 
was 23-year-old Michael Griffith, a Trinidadian native living in Bedford-Stuyvesant, 
Brooklyn. He was killed after being almost accidentally hit by a car with 
three teenagers inside it on December 20, 1986. Griffith was chased onto 
a highway by a mob of white youths who had beaten him and his friends. 
Griffith's death was the second in a string of three racially motivated 
killings of blacks by white mobs in New York City in the 1980s.[citation 
needed] On June 29, 2005 three African-Americans were attacked with baseball 
bats by white men. One of them was injured seriously enough to be hospitalized 
and two arrests were made in the case. The convicted assailant, Nicholas 
Minucci, claimed that the victims had attempted to rob him.[3] On June 
10, 2006, Minucci, 20, who uttered a racial epithet during the baseball 
bat attack, was found guilty of robbery and the racially motivated assault 
of Glenn Moore.[4] On July 17, 2006, Minucci was sentenced to 15 years 
in prison.[5] In 2012, Hurricane Sandy struck; it had a devastating effect 
on much of the neighborhood. Howard Beach was one of the many seaside city 
neighborhoods that was hit by Hurricane Sandy's record storm surge. On 
October 28, 2012 city officials ordered a mandatory evacuation of all Zone 
A neighborhoods (low-lying neighborhoods susceptible to storm surge), in 
the city, this included the Howard Beach neighborhood of Hamilton Beach. 
However, most of the rest of Howard Beach lay in Zone B which was only 
ordered with a voluntary evacuation. Many neighborhood residents decided 
to stay and ride out the storm citing the relatively minor damage caused 
the previous year by Hurricane Irene. Nevertheless, when Sandy made landfall 
on October 29 a ten-foot-high storm surge from Jamaica Bay flooded all 
of Old and New Howard Beach as well as the neighborhoods of Broad Channel 
and the Rockaways in addition to some sections of Lindenwood and neighboring 
Ozone Park. Most, if not all, houses in the neighborhood suffered some 
flooding damage as well as all stores along Cross Bay Blvd. The Howard 
Beach – JFK Airport station along with the IND Rockaway Line trestle carrying 
trains over Jamaica Bay into Broad Channel and the Rockaways were also 
heavily damaged. Power was out for over three weeks in the neighborhood. 
In the wake of Sandy, the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the New 
York City Office of Emergency Management have provisionally re-classified 
Howard Beach along with the Brooklyn neighborhoods of Gerritsen Beach and 
Red Hook as Zone A neighborhoods. As of early 2013, recovery in the neighborhood 
has been largely successful yet still ongoing. On April 5, 2013, the Howard 
Beach post office reopened after extensive repairs.[6] Residents are still 
working to recover from Sandy's aftereffects. As of the 2000 census, there 
were 28,121 people residing in Howard Beach. The racial makeup of the neighborhood 
was 85.9% Non-Hispanic White, 2.8% Asian, 0.0% Pacific Islander, 1.0% African 
American, 2.3% from other races, and 1.2% from two or more races. 11.8% 
of the population were Hispanic or Latino of any race. 13.1% of the population 
is foreign-born. The estimated median household income as of 2007 is $69,800. 
Many of the residents are Italian-American, often from immigrant families 
that relocated from Brooklyn in the 1940s and 1950s as they looked for 
a better life for their families.[citation needed] Like many New York City 
neighborhoods, Howard Beach is composed of several smaller neighborhoods 
– Howard Beach, Old Howard Beach, Hamilton Beach, Ramblersville, Spring 
Park, Rockwood Park, Lindenwood, and Howard Park (Old Howard Beach, Ramblersville, 
Howard Park, and Hamilton Beach are sometimes all grouped together as "Old 
Howard Beach", instead of being referred to by their proper names). Howard 
Beach proper is a small peninsula bordered by the Belt Parkway and Conduit 
Avenue on the north, Jamaica Bay on the south, Hawtree Creek on the east 
separating it from Hamilton Beach and Shellbank Basin on the west that 
separates it from Cross Bay Boulevard. Cross Bay Boulevard is the main 
commercial strip of Howard Beach and going northward it eventually turns 
into Woodhaven Boulevard after Ozone Park. Throughout the 1970s and 80s, 
the Boulevard was made up almost exclusively of locally owned shops and 
restaurants. However, starting in the 1990s, chain stores and restaurants 
began moving in and now many well-known franchises are on the boulevard. 
Entertainment venues on Cross Bay Boulevard such as the Kiddie-Park and 
Cross-Bay Lanes were popular until their collapse in the 1970s and 1980s. 
The Joseph P. Addabbo Memorial Bridge (named for a deceased member of the 
United States House of Representatives who once represented the district 
that includes Howard Beach) carries the boulevard over Jamaica Bay, connecting 
mainland Queens to Broad Channel. Bernard Coleman Memorial Square (colloquially 
known as Coleman Square) is a small plaza near the Howard Beach – JFK Airport 
station.[2] There is a memorial to servicemen from Howard Beach who died 
in World War I, World War II, the Korean War, and the Vietnam War.[7] Hamilton 
Beach is a middle class neighborhood in the New York City borough of Queens. 
Its boundaries are the 102nd Street Creek to the north, the IND Rockaway 
Line (A train) tracks and JFK Airport to the east, Hawtree Creek to the 
west, and Jamaica Bay to the south. Hamilton Beach is one of the few communities 
in New York City that has its own volunteer fire department. Hamilton Beach 
is frequently referred to as West Hamilton Beach.[8] East Hamilton Beach 
was on the east side of the then Long Island Rail Road tracks, but was 
taken by the City for expansion of Idlewild Airport (now JFK Airport) in 
the 1940s. Hamilton Beach bears no relation to the Hamilton Beach Company 
other than the name. The company is named after a Mr. Hamilton and a Mr. 
Beach.[9][8] There was a Hamilton Beach station on the Long Island Rail 
Road's Rockaway Beach Branch. The station closed on June 27, 1955 in connection 
with the LIRR's sale of much of the branch's right of way to the New York 
City Transit Authority. Hamilton Beach is a small community that has one 
long strip (104th Street) with ten dead-end blocks connected to it. It 
is mostly surrounded by water. There is one way into Hamilton Beach by 
car and two ways in by foot. It is accessible by a boardwalk that stretches 
from the A train station at Coleman Square to 104th Street, or by the Hawtree 
Basin pedestrian bridge that is in between two of the ten blocks. This 
bridge connects Hamilton and Old Howard Beach. Hamilton has a small park 
at the southern end, with a 200-foot baseball field, a handball court, 
a small jungle gym area and beach. Gateways Hamilton Beach Park, just south 
of 165th Avenue, is the last stop for the Q11 bus. Hamilton Beach was once 
an area with dirt roads, old shack-type houses (bungalows), and no sewer 
system, as the area was unincorporated, but recently Hamilton Beach has 
been "building up." There are new houses going up on almost every block. 
Lindenwood is a section of Howard Beach, developed in the 1950s and 1960s, 
and sits on landfilled land. The neighborhood is part of Queens Community 
District 10, served by Queens Community Board 10.[10] It is primarily made 
up of six-story, orange or red-brick apartment buildings, constructed in 
the early to mid-1960s, smaller co-op "garden-apartments" (four-unit red-brick 
buildings) constructed in the 1950s, and seen from the Belt Parkway, and 
two-family homes (some attached) built in the 1960s. The "hi-rise" apartment 
buildings are co-op (red bricks) or condominiums (orange brick). Heritage 
House East and West (84-39 and 84-29 153rd Avenue) were among the first 
condominium apartment buildings in New York State. Additional townhouses, 
near the Brooklyn border, were built in the 1970s and 1990s. The hi-risers, 
used to be very family friendly but today many of the apartment building 
play grounds have been converted into sitting areas and no longer even 
allow dogs.[11] Lindenwood's residents tend to be of mostly Jewish and 
Italian heritage along with some of Hispanic heritage. In the middle of 
the neighborhood is the elementary school, P.S. 232, built in the early 
1960s (and now known as the Walter Ward School,[12] named after the neighborhood's 
late longtime City councilman) and the Lindenwood Shopping Center, which 
consists of a supermarket and about 20 stores. In the early 1970s, a second 
supermarket called the Village was located behind the shopping center. 
After failing, the building became a mall, flea market, bingo hall and 
private school before finally becoming a walk-in medical center. There 
is also a second small strip mall on Linden Boulevard, adjacent to the 
Lindenwood Diner. Lindenwood once had a synagogue named Temple Judea. It 
was located on 153rd Ave and 80th Street, was converted into apartments 
when the temple merged with the then Howard Beach Jewish Center in Rockwood 
Park. The neighborhood also used to have two pool clubs, one on 88th Street 
and 151st Ave, that became walk-up apartments in the early 1970s and another 
across from 232 that was developed in 1980, into townhouses, adjacent to 
a branch of Queens County Savings Bank (formerly Columbia Savings Bank), 
which had been previously developed. There also used to be a tennis "bubble" 
on 153rd Ave and 79th Street, that was also developed around 1980. Old 
Howard Beach is a section of Howard Beach that lies between Shellbank Basin 
and Hawtree Creek to the east of Cross Bay Boulevard. Coleman Square and 
Frank M. Charles Park are located in Old Howard Beach. The area is locally 
referred to as "Old Howard Beach} since it was the original place in which 
founder William Howard built his famous hotel, and later the area's first 
houses in the 1920s. The current housing in Old Howard Beach consists of 
several different types of houses. Those located near the former Howard 
Park hospital are mainly 1950s and 1960s detached two-family homes, while 
the areas near Coleman Square, Frank M. Charles Park, and Shellbank Basin 
contain primarily single-family homes. The Q11 serves the neighborhood. 
Ramblersville is a section of greater Howard Beach, being a small neighborhood 
between Hawtree Creek and JFK Airport.[13][14] It is nearly surrounded 
by waterways leading into nearby Jamaica Bay. It is bordered by on the 
north by 160th Avenue, on the west by Hawtree Creek, across which is Old 
Howard Beach; on the east by the New York City Subway's Rockaway Line (A train, 
beyond which is Bergen Basin and the airport; and on the south by the 102nd 
Street Creek. Crossing the creek, 102nd Street reaches Hamilton Beach at 
Russell Street. The size of the neighborhood is about 1,000 feet (300 m) 
on each side, and it notably lacks the rectangular street grid of the surrounding 
neighborhoods. In 2001 the New York Times reported:[15] [Ramblersville] 
resembles a cozy fishing village with its pebbled streets and wooden bungalows 
built on pilings... [T]all grass... surrounds many of its marshy fields... 
Ramblersville, which once considered itself independent of New York City 
when the city was first unified, is purportedly the oldest neighborhood 
in what later became known as Howard Beach.[16] Fishing was a large industry 
in the tiny neighborhood. Ramblersville still has streets named Broadway, 
Church and Bridge. Just north of Ramblersville is 159th Drive, also known 
as Remsen Place, named after Jeromus Remsen, a Revolutionary War officer. 
This area, near the current subway station, was known as "Remsen's Landing" 
at the time. Before the Howard Beach development was named in 1916, the 
entire area was commonly known as "Ramblersville", including Hamilton Beach 
to the south on Jamaica Bay, and Old Howard Beach to the west. The Howard 
Beach – JFK Airport subway stop was originally the "Ramblersville Station" 
on the Long Island Rail Road. Ramblersville is the smallest neighborhood 
in New York City in terms of real estate per square foot.[17][18] Rockwood 
Park is a section of Howard Beach that mainly consists of single family 
homes and is considered to be a more upper class section of Howard Beach. 
It is part of what is commonly referred to as "New Howard" by many residents. 
The area is situated between 79th and 92nd Streets (these are north-south 
streets) and 156th and 164th Avenues (the east-west streets). The Q41 and 
Q21 serve Rockwood Park. To the west of 79th Street, the last street in 
the neighborhood, lies the Jamaica Bay Wildlife Refuge in which lies the 
border between Brooklyn and Queens. The area remained primarily undeveloped 
during the first half of the 1900s. After the Second World War marsh land 
west of Cross Bay Boulevard was filled in, which led to the building of 
many Cape Cod-style houses in the area, followed later on in the 1960s 
and 1970s by high ranch-style houses. Becoming known as a more upscale 
section of Howard Beach led the area to become the home of many known mob 
figures, most notably Gambino crime family boss John Gotti who lived on 
85th Street. Starting in the late 1980s and through the 2000s, Rockwood 
Park began to go through another building boom. Many of the area's old 
Cape Cod-style houses were demolished and replaced with upscale million 
dollar mini-mansions. Another famous resident was folk singer Woody Guthrie, 
who lived at 159-13 85th Street with his family after moving from Coney 
Island. Joseph Addabbo, Jr., the son of former Congressman Joseph P. Addabbo, 
represents the area as member of the New York State Senate. Congressman 
Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) represents that part of Howard Beach east of 104th 
Street and Congressman Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY) represents the part west 
of 104th Street. Eric Ulrich (R-NY) is the New York City Councilman for 
Howard Beach. Phil Goldfeder (D-NY) represents Howard Beach in the New 
York State Assembly. Howard Beach – JFK Airport on the IND Rockaway Line 
was formerly a Long Island Rail Road station on the Rockaway Beach Branch. 
Frequent fires on the trestle to Broad Channel forced the LIRR to file 
Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the 1950s, which allowed New York City 
Transit to purchase the line in 1956.[19] The station provides a connection 
between the A train and Howard Beach JFK AirTrain route (and was, until 
1990, the terminus of the former JFK Express, known colloquially as the 
"Train to the Plane"). Prior to the AirTrain JFK, the Port Authority provided 
a free shuttle bus to the terminals at JFK Airport. The AirTrain now provides 
these connections. Local bus service in the neighborhood is provided on 
the Q11, Q21, Q41, Q52, Q53. All of these routes are operated by MTA Bus 
Company. There are also the QM15, QM16, QM17, QM18 express buses. For grades 
9–12, most residents attend John Adams High School or Robert H. Goddard 
High School in nearby Ozone Park, specialty high schools such as Beach 
Channel High School in Rockaway Park, or Catholic high schools such as 
Christ the King, St. Francis Prep, or Archbishop Molloy and Forest Hills 
High School. Notable current and former residents of Howard Beach include: 
Coordinates: 40°39′35″N 73°50′36″W﻿ / ﻿40.6596°N 73.8434°W﻿ / 40.6596; 
