Howard William Cosell (/koʊˈsɛl/; born Howard William Cohen; March 25, 
1918 – April 23, 1995) was an American sports journalist who was widely 
known for his blustery, cocksure personality.[1] Cosell said of himself, 
"Arrogant, pompous, obnoxious, vain, cruel, verbose, a showoff. There's 
no question that I'm all of those things."[2] In its obituary for Cosell, 
The New York Times described Cosell's effect on American sports coverage: 
"He entered sports broadcasting in the mid-1950s, when the predominant 
style was unabashed adulation, [and] offered a brassy counterpoint that 
was first ridiculed, then copied until it became the dominant note of sports 
broadcasting."[3] In 1993, TV Guide named Howard Cosell The All-Time Best 
Sportscaster in its issue celebrating 40 years of television.[4] In 1996, 
Howard Cosell was ranked #47 on TV Guide's 50 Greatest TV Stars of All 
Time.[5] Cosell was born in Winston-Salem, North Carolina,[6] to accountant 
Isidore Cohen and his wife Nellie (Rosenthal) Cohen.[7][8] The grandson 
of a rabbi,[9] he was raised in Brooklyn, New York. He graduated with a 
bachelor's degree in English from New York University, where he was a member 
of Pi Lambda Phi fraternity. He then earned a degree at New York University 
School of Law, where he was a member of the law review. Cosell's grandfather's 
name had been changed by immigration authorities when he entered the United 
States. Howard Cosell said he changed his name from "Cohen" to "Cosell" 
while a law student as a way to honor his father and grandfather by reverting 
to a version of his family's original Polish name.[10] Cosell was admitted 
to the New York State Bar in 1941, but when the U.S. entered World War 
II, Cosell entered the United States Army Transportation Corps, where he 
was promoted to the rank of major. During his time in the service, he married 
Mary Edith Abrams in 1944 in a judge's chambers in Brooklyn. He left the 
service in 1945. After the war, Cosell began practicing law in Manhattan, 
primarily union law. Some of his clients were actors, and some were athletes, 
including Willie Mays. Cosell's own hero in athletics was Jackie Robinson, 
who served as a personal and professional inspiration to him in his career. 
Cosell also represented the Little League of New York, when in 1953 an 
ABC Radio manager asked him to host a show on New York flagship WABC featuring 
Little League participants. The show marked the beginning of a relationship 
with WABC and ABC Radio that would last his entire broadcasting career. 
Cosell hosted the Little League show for three years without pay, and then 
decided to leave the law field to become a full-time broadcaster. He approached 
Robert Pauley, President of ABC Radio, with a proposal for a weekly show. 
Pauley told him the network could not afford to develop untried talent, 
but he would be put on the air if he would get a sponsor. To Pauley's surprise, 
Cosell came back with a relative's shirt company as a sponsor, and "Speaking 
of Sports" was born.[11] Cosell took his "tell it like it is" approach 
when he teamed with the ex–Brooklyn Dodgers pitcher "Big Numba Thirteen" 
Ralph Branca on WABC's pre- and post-game radio shows of the New York Mets 
in their nascent years beginning in 1962. He pulled no punches in taking 
members of the hapless expansion team to task. Otherwise on radio, Cosell 
did his show, Speaking of Sports, as well as sports reports and updates 
for affiliated radio stations around the country; he continued his radio 
duties even after he became prominent on television. Cosell then became 
a sports anchor at WABC-TV in New York, where he served in that role from 
1961 to 1974. He expanded his commentary beyond sports to a radio show 
entitled Speaking of Everything. Cosell rose to prominence covering boxer 
Muhammad Ali, starting when he still fought under his birth name, Cassius 
Clay. The two seemed to have an affinity despite their different personalities, 
and complemented each other in broadcasts. Cosell was one of the first 
sportscasters to refer to the boxer as Muhammad Ali after he changed his 
name and supported him when he refused to be inducted into the military. 
Cosell was also an outspoken supporter of Olympic sprinters John Carlos 
and Tommie Smith after they raised their fists in a "black power" salute 
during their 1968 medal ceremony. In a time when many sports broadcasters 
avoided touching social, racial, or other controversial issues, and kept 
a certain level of collegiality towards the sports figures they commented 
on, Cosell did not, and indeed built a reputation around his catchphrase, 
"I'm just telling it like it is." Cosell's style of reporting very much 
transformed sports broadcasting. Whereas previous sportscasters had mostly 
been known for color commentary and lively play-by-play, Cosell had an 
intellectual approach. His use of analysis and context arguably brought 
television sports reporting very close to the kind of in-depth reporting 
one expected from "hard" news reporters. At the same time, however, his 
distinctive staccato voice, accent, syntax, and cadence were a form of 
color commentary all their own. Cosell earned his greatest interest from 
the public when he backed Ali after the boxer's championship title was 
stripped from him for refusing military service during the Vietnam War. 
Cosell found vindication several years later when he was the one able to 
inform Ali that the United States Supreme Court had unanimously ruled in 
favor of Ali in Clay v. United States. Cosell called most of Ali's fights 
immediately before and after the boxer returned from his three-year exile 
in October 1970. Those fights were broadcast on taped delay usually a week 
after they were transmitted on closed circuit. However, Cosell was passed 
over for perhaps his biggest assignment of his career, the first Ali–Joe 
Frazier bout in March 1971. Promoter Jerry Perenchio selected actor Burt 
Lancaster, who had never provided color commentary for a fight, to work 
the bout with longtime announcer Don Dunphy and former light-heavyweight 
champion Archie Moore. Cosell attended that fight as a spectator only. 
He would do a voiceover of that bout, when it was shown on ABC a few days 
before the second Ali-Frazier bout in January 1974. Perhaps his most famous 
call took place in the fight between Joe Frazier and George Foreman for 
the World Heavyweight Championship in Kingston, Jamaica in 1973. When Foreman 
knocked Frazier to the mat the first of six times, roughly two minutes 
into the first round, Cosell yelled out His call of Frazier's first trip 
to the mat became one of the most quoted phrases in American sports broadcasting 
history. Foreman beat Frazier by a TKO in the second round to win the World 
Heavyweight Championship. Cosell provided blow-by-blow commentary for ABC 
of some of boxing's biggest matches during the 1970s and the early 1980s 
including Ken Norton's upset win over Ali in 1973 and Ali's defeat of Leon 
Spinks in 1978 recapturing the Heavyweight title for the third time. His 
signature toupee was unceremoniously knocked off in front of live ABC cameras 
when a scuffle broke out after a broadcast match between Scott LeDoux and 
Johnny Boudreaux. Cosell quickly retrieved his hairpiece and replaced it. 
During interviews in studio with Ali, the champion would tease and threaten 
to remove the hairpiece with Cosell playing along but never allowing it 
to be touched. With typical headline generating drama, Cosell abruptly 
ended his broadcast association with the sport of boxing while providing 
coverage for ABC for the heavyweight championship bout between Larry Holmes 
and Randall "Tex" Cobb on November 26, 1982. Halfway through the bout and 
with Cobb absorbing a beating, Cosell stopped providing anything more than 
rudimentary comments about round number and the participants punctuated 
with occasional declarations of disgust during the 15 rounds. He declared 
shortly after the fight to a national television audience that he had broadcast 
his last professional boxing match. Cosell also was an ABC commentator 
for the television broadcast of the second of the two famous 1973 "Battles 
of the Sexes" tennis matches, this one between Bobby Riggs and Billie Jean 
King. During Cosell's tenure as a sportscaster, he frequently clashed with 
longtime New York Daily News sports columnist Dick Young, who rarely missed 
an opportunity to denigrate the broadcaster in print as an "ass", a "shill", 
or most often, "Howie the Fraud". Young would sometimes stand near Cosell 
and shout profanities so that the audio he was taping for his radio show 
would be unusable. Writing about Cosell, sportswriter Jimmy Cannon sniped, 
"This is a guy who changed his name, put on a toupee and tried to convince 
the world that he tells it like it is."[12] He further added, "If Howard 
Cosell were a sport, he'd be roller derby."[13] Cosell, according to longtime 
ABC racecaster Chris Economaki, "had an enormous and monumental ego, and 
may have been the most pompous man I've ever met." Cosell ripped Economaki 
for a miscue in an interview with Cale Yarborough for ABC "(and he) never 
let me forget that". At an ABC Christmas party Economaki's wife asked to 
be introduced to Cosell and Chris said, "'Howard, for some inexplicable 
reason my wife wants to meet you...' and it (ticked) him off to no end. 
He really took it personally."[14] In 1970, ABC executive producer for 
sports Roone Arledge hired Cosell to be a commentator for Monday Night 
Football, the first time in 15 years that American football was broadcast 
weekly in prime time. Cosell was accompanied most of the time by ex-football 
players Frank Gifford and "Dandy" Don Meredith. Cosell was openly contemptuous 
of ex-athletes appointed to prominent sportscasting roles solely on account 
of their playing fame. He regularly clashed on-air with Meredith, whose 
laid-back style was in sharp contrast to Cosell's more critical approach 
to the games. The Cosell-Meredith-Gifford dynamic helped make Monday Night 
Football a success; it frequently was the number one rated program in the 
Nielsen ratings. Cosell's inimitable style distinguished Monday Night Football 
from previous sports programming, and ushered in an era of more colorful 
broadcasters and 24/7 TV sports coverage. It was during his MNF run that 
Cosell coined a phrase that came to be so identified with football that 
other announcers and spectators—notably Chris Berman—began to repeat it. 
An ordinary kickoff return began with Cosell giving commentary about a 
player's difficult life. It became extraordinary when he suddenly observed, 
"He could go all the way!" As evidenced by the thousands of websites that 
cite Cosell's quote, many sports commentators consider this to be one of 
the most famous sports quips of all time. Along with Monday Night Football, 
Cosell worked the Olympics for ABC. He played a key role on ABC's coverage 
of the Palestinian terror group Black September's mass murder of Israeli 
athletes in Munich at the 1972 Summer Olympics; providing reports directly 
from the Olympic Village (his image can be seen and voice heard in Steven 
Spielberg's film about the terror attack). In the 1976 Summer Games in 
Montreal, and the 1984 games in Los Angeles, Cosell was the main voice 
for boxing. Cosell was widely attributed with saying the famous phrase 
"the Bronx is burning". Cosell is credited with saying the quote during 
Game 2 of the 1977 World Series, which took place in Yankee Stadium on 
October 12, 1977. For a couple of years, fires had routinely erupted in 
the South Bronx, mostly due to low-value property owners setting their 
own properties ablaze for insurance money. During the bottom of the first 
inning, an ABC aerial camera panned a few blocks from Yankee Stadium to 
a building on fire, giving the world a real-life view of the infamous Bronx 
fires. The scene became a defining image of New York City in the 1970s. 
Cosell supposedly stated, "There it is, ladies and gentlemen, The Bronx 
is burning."[15] This was later picked up by presidential candidate Ronald 
Reagan, who then made a special trip to the Bronx, to illustrate the failures 
of politicians to address the issues in that part of New York City. In 
2005, author Jonathan Mahler published Ladies and Gentlemen, The Bronx 
Is Burning, a book about New York in 1977, and credited Cosell with the 
title quote during the aerial coverage of the fire. ESPN produced a 2007 
mini-series based on the book The Bronx Is Burning. Cosell's comment seemed 
to have captured the widespread view that New York City was on the skids 
and in a state of decline. The truth was discovered after Major League 
Baseball published a complete DVD set of all of the games of the 1977 World 
Series. Coverage of the fire began with Keith Jackson's comments regarding 
the enormity of the blaze, while Cosell added that President Jimmy Carter 
had visited that area just days before. At the top of the second inning, 
the fire was once again shown from a helicopter-mounted camera, and Cosell 
commented that the New York Fire Department had a hard job to do in the 
Bronx as there were always numerous fires. In the bottom of the second, 
Cosell informed the audience that it was an abandoned building that was 
burning and no lives were in danger. There was no further comment on the 
fire, and Cosell appears to have never said "The Bronx is Burning" (at 
least not on camera) during Game 2.[15] Mahler's confusion could have arisen 
from a 1974 documentary entitled The Bronx Is Burning: it is likely Mahler 
confused the documentary with his recollection of Cosell's comments when 
writing his book.[16] On the night of December 8, 1980, during a Monday 
Night Football game between the Miami Dolphins and the New England Patriots, 
Cosell shocked the television audience by interrupting his regular commentary 
duties to deliver a news bulletin of the murder of John Lennon in the midst 
of a live broadcast. Word had been passed to Cosell and Frank Gifford by 
Roone Arledge, who was president of ABC's news and sports divisions at 
the time, near the end of the game. Cosell was initially apprehensive about 
announcing Lennon's death. Off the air, Cosell conferred with Gifford and 
others saying "Fellas, I just don't know, I'd like your opinion. I can't 
see this game situation allowing for that news flash, can you?" Gifford 
replied, "Absolutely. I can see it." Gifford later told Cosell, "Don't 
hang on it. It's a tragic moment and this is going to shake up the whole 
world."[17][18] On air, Gifford prefaced the announcement saying, "And 
I don't care what's on the line, Howard, you have got to say what we know 
in the booth." Cosell then replied: Yes, we have to say it. Remember this 
is just a football game, no matter who wins or loses. An unspeakable tragedy 
confirmed to us by ABC News in New York City: John Lennon, outside of his 
apartment building on the West Side of New York City, the most famous, 
perhaps, of all of The Beatles, shot twice in the back, rushed to Roosevelt 
Hospital, dead on arrival. Hard to go back to the game after that news 
flash, which in duty bound, we have to take.[19] Lennon had been shot four 
times and had not been pronounced dead on arrival, but the facts of the 
shooting were not clear at the time of the announcement. Lennon once appeared 
on Monday Night Football, during the December 9, 1974 telecast of a 23–17 
Washington Redskins win over the Los Angeles Rams, and was interviewed 
for a short breakaway segment by Cosell. ABC had obtained this scoop as 
a result of the coincidence of an ABC employee, Alan Weiss, being at the 
same emergency room that Lennon was brought to that night.[20] This unwittingly 
violated a request to the hospital by Lennon's wife, Yoko Ono, to delay 
reporting his death until she could tell their son, Sean, herself. Sean, 
age 5, was not watching the football game (or any television) that evening 
as it was near midnight, and Ono was able to break the news to him.[21] 
NBC beat ABC to the punch, however, interrupting The Tonight Show just 
minutes before Cosell's announcement with a "breaking news" segment.[22] 
In the fall of 1981, Cosell debuted a serious investigative 30-minute magazine 
show, ABC SportsBeat on ABC's weekend schedule. He made news and covered 
topics that were not part of general sports coverage - including the first 
story about drugs in professional sports (the story of former Minnesota 
Viking Carl Eller's cocaine use), an in-depth look at how NFL owners negotiated 
tax breaks and incentives for building new stadiums, and together with 
Arthur Ashe, an investigation into apartheid and sports. Though ratings 
were low, Cosell and his staff earned 3 Emmy awards for excellence in reporting, 
and broke new ground in sports journalism.[23] At the time, ABC SportsBeat 
was the first and only regularly scheduled network program devoted solely 
to sports journalism. To produce this pioneering program, Cosell recruited 
a number of employees from outside the ranks of those that produced games, 
whom he felt might be too invested in the success of the athletes and leagues 
to look at the hard news. He brought in Michael Marley, then a sportswriter 
for the Washington Post, Lawrie Mifflin, a writer for the New York Times, 
and a 20-year old researcher who quickly rose to an associate producer, 
Alexis Denny. As a sophomore at Yale University, Ms. Denny had been a student 
in a seminar that Cosell taught on the "Business of Big-Time Sports in 
America", and was selected by the Director of Monday Night Football to 
join their production crew. She took her junior year off to join Cosell's 
staff at ABC Headquarters in New York City, and produced many segments, 
including in 1983 a half-hour special report previewing the 1984 Olympic 
Games in Los Angeles.[24] Despite the games being one of ABC's biggest 
investments, with a record-breaking 225 million dollar rights fee at the 
time,[25] the 30-minute documentary-style program produced by Denny showed 
many sides of the questions about the viability of the Games themselves 
- from concerns about traffic, pollution and terrorism, to a look at how 
the sponsorship deals were structured. Cosell's colorful personality and 
distinctive voice were featured to fine comedic effect in several sports-themed 
episodes of the ABC TV series The Odd Couple. His feuds with New York City 
sportswriter Oscar Madison (Jack Klugman) mirrored the real life feuds 
he had with some of New York's leading sportswriters. He also appeared 
in the Woody Allen films Bananas, Sleeper and (in a brief cameo) Broadway 
Danny Rose. Such was his celebrity that while he never appeared on the 
show, Cosell's name was frequently used as an all-purpose answer on the 
popular 1970s game show Match Game. Cosell also had a cameo in the 1988 
movie Johnny Be Good featuring Robert Downey Jr., Anthony Michael Hall 
and Uma Thurman. His particular speech pattern was also imitated by one 
of the characters in the film Better Off Dead. Cosell's national fame was 
further boosted in the fall of 1975 when Saturday Night Live with Howard 
Cosell aired on Saturday evenings on ABC. This was an hour-long variety 
show, broadcast live from the Ed Sullivan Theater in New York City and 
hosted by Cosell, which is not to be confused with the NBC series Saturday 
Night Live (which coincidentally also premiered in 1975 under its original 
title of NBC's Saturday Night, to avoid confusion with Cosell's show). 
Despite bringing a young comedian, Billy Crystal, to national prominence 
and for showcasing the American TV debut of the Bay City Rollers (who later 
had a hit song by the name of "Saturday Night"), Cosell's show was canceled 
after three months. Cosell later hosted the 1984-1985 season finale of 
Saturday Night Live. Cosell was the announcer of Frank Sinatra's 1975 ABC 
television special Sinatra – The Main Event.[26] Cosell also appeared alongside 
Muhammad Ali, Frank Sinatra, Richie Havens, and others on a 1976 spoken 
word novelty record, The Adventures of Ali and His Gang vs. Mr. Tooth Decay.[27] 
Beginning in 1976, Cosell hosted a series of specials known as Battle of 
the Network Stars. The two-hour specials pitted stars from each of the 
three broadcast networks against each other in various physical and mental 
competitions. Cosell hosted all but one of the nineteen specials, including 
the final one airing in 1988. Cosell denounced professional boxing in a 
November 26, 1982, bout between Larry Holmes and a clearly outmatched Randall 
"Tex" Cobb at the Astrodome. The fight was held two weeks after the fatal 
fight between Ray Mancini and Duk Koo Kim, and Cosell famously asked the 
rhetorical question, "I wonder if that referee [Steve Crosson] understands 
that he is constructing an advertisement for the abolition of the very 
sport that he's a part of?"[28] Cosell, horrified over the brutality of 
the one-sided fight, said that if the referee did not stop the fight he 
would never broadcast a professional fight again. Cosell's outrage and 
his abandonment of boxing coincided with the end of Muhammad Ali's era 
in the sport, an era in which Cosell was an insider and confidant of the 
three-time heavyweight champion. His flamboyant abandonment of the sport 
that made him a household name was seen by many scribes as opportunistic 
as his influence and access within the sport had sharply declined with 
Ali's retirement in 1981.[citation needed] Major boxing reforms were later 
implemented, the most important of which allows referees to stop clearly 
one-sided fights early in order to protect the health of the fighters. 
In amateur boxing, one-sided fights would be automatically stopped if one 
fighter had a score considerably higher than his opponent. Hitherto, only 
the ring physician had the authority to halt a bout. Another change was 
the reduction of championship bouts from 15 rounds to 12 rounds by the 
WBC. (The fatal blows to Kim were in Rounds 13 and 14.) The WBA quickly 
followed suit, and the IBF did so in 1988. Cosell did not cut off ties 
with the United States Amateur Boxing Federation. His 1984 broadcasts of 
the Olympic Trials, box-offs, and the 1984 Summer Olympics boxing tournament 
were his last professional calls of the sport. On 5 September 1983, Cosell 
announced a Monday night game between the Washington Redskins and the Dallas 
Cowboys. During the broadcast, Cosell stated in reference to Redskins wide 
receiver Alvin Garrett after his sixth reception of the evening, that Washington 
Coach Joe Gibbs, "wanted that kid, and that little monkey gets loose doesn't 
he". The comment brought immediate criticism for being racist, specifically 
by then-president of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference Rev. 
Joseph Lowery, who demanded Cosell apologize. Cosell declined, stating 
first that did not recall making the statement and then that it was an 
appellation he had previously used for athletes of all races and a term 
of endearment he employed with his grandchildren. Furthermore, Cosell proclaimed 
that his civil rights stands for the rights of black athletes spoke for 
themselves. After Cosell's memoir I Never Played the Game, which among 
other things chronicled his disenchantment with fellow ABC commentators, 
was published in September 1985, Cosell was taken off scheduled announcing 
duties for that year's World Series and was dismissed by ABC television 
shortly thereafter. Cosell's book was seen by many as a bitter "hate rant" 
against those who had offended him. TV Guide published excerpts of his 
memoirs and reported that they had never had as many viewers' responses 
and they were overwhelmingly negative towards Cosell. The magazine reported 
some of the "printable" ones saying things such as "Will Rogers never met 
Howard Cosell". In I Never Played the Game, Cosell popularized the word 
"jockocracy" originally coined by author Robert Lipsyte, describing how 
athletes were given announcing jobs that they had not earned. Coincidentally, 
he was replaced for the 1985 World Series broadcast by Tim McCarver, himself 
a former baseball player, to join Al Michaels and Jim Palmer. (The title 
of the book is a double entendre, meaning that Cosell never actually played 
the game of football or any other professional sport he broadcast as well 
as implying that he never played the "game" of corporate politics.) Cosell 
is notably absent from the Pro Football Hall of Fame.[29] In his later 
years, Cosell briefly hosted his own television talk show, Speaking of 
Everything, authored his last book (What's Wrong With Sports), and continued 
to appear on radio and television, becoming more outspoken about his criticisms 
of sports in general. In 1993, Cosell was inducted into the International 
Jewish Sports Hall of Fame.[30] A year later, in 1994, he was inducted 
into the Television Hall of Fame. He was also the 1995 recipient of the 
Arthur Ashe Courage Award. After his wife of 46 years, Mary Edith Abrams 
Cosell (known as "Emmy") died from a massive heart attack in 1990, Cosell 
largely withdrew from the public eye and his health began failing. He was 
diagnosed with lung cancer in 1991 and had surgery to remove a cancerous 
tumor in his chest. He also had several minor strokes, and was diagnosed 
with heart and kidney disease and Parkinson's. Cosell died at Hospital 
for Joint Diseases in Manhattan on April 23, 1995, aged 77, of a cardiac 
embolism.[1] He was placed as number one on David J. Halberstam's list 
of Top 50 All Time Network Television Sports Announcers on Yahoo! Sports. 
The sports complex at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem is named for Howard 
and Emmy Cosell. In 2010, Cosell was inducted into the International Boxing 
Hall of Fame.[31] The Muppets had a recurring character, Louis Kazagger, 
a plaid-clothed sportscaster with punctuated nasal inflection, that parodied 
Cosell. The band Ben Folds Five have a song titled "Boxing," which was 
written as a fictional monologue from Muhammad Ali to Howard Cosell during 
the decline of his boxing career. In Michael Mann's 2001 film Ali, Cosell 
is played by Jon Voight, who earned an Academy Award nomination for his 
performance.[32] In the 2002 television film Monday Night Mayhem, Cosell 
was played by John Turturro.[33] Jimmy Spicer's 1980 rap single "The Adventures 
of Super Rhyme" describes a meeting with the "KBC" broadcaster "Coward 
Hosell". In the 1985 film Better Off Dead, one of the two Asian-American 
teenage brothers who regularly challenged John Cusack's character to a 
street race is said to have learned English from listening to Cosell.[34] 
