Howard Frederick Haak (August 28, 1911 — February 22, 1999; /ˈheɪk/; rhymes 
with "take") was an American professional baseball scout for almost 50 
years, from the end of World War II through his 1993 retirement. Although 
he spoke little Spanish, he became perhaps the best-known Major League 
Baseball scout of his era who worked in Latin America and the Caribbean, 
and signed "scores of players" during his career from Puerto Rico, the 
Dominican Republic, Panama, Cuba, and the Virgin Islands — most of them 
for the Pittsburgh Pirates, for whom Haak worked for 38 years. Haak also 
played a key role in the Pirates' decision to select Roberto Clemente in 
the 1954 Rule 5 draft; the right fielder from Puerto Rico would go on to 
make 3,000 hits, win two World Series championships and the 1971 World 
Series MVP award, and earn an immediate place in the Baseball Hall of Fame 
upon his death in an airplane crash while on a humanitarian mission to 
Nicaragua.[1] Baseball Reference lists no playing record under Haak's entry,[2] 
but according to his New York Times obituary and an interview with Tom 
Bird published in the February 1994 issue of Baseball Digest, Haak was 
a catcher in the extensive St. Louis Cardinals farm system during the 1930s. 
According to the Bird interview, a badly injured throwing arm ended Haak's 
playing career, but he was still in the game as traveling secretary of 
the Cards' Rochester Red Wings farm club at the close of the 1941 season 
when he answered the telephone in a deserted Red Wings' clubhouse. The 
caller was Cardinals' general manager Branch Rickey. "He said, 'I need 
an outfielder right now for the big club. Is there anyone there who can 
help us?'" Haak recalled in 1994. "'Yeah,' I said, 'Musial, and take Kurowski 
and Dusak with him.'"[3] Hall of Famer Stan Musial went on to set the National 
League record for hits (since broken by all-time hits leader Pete Rose), 
while Whitey Kurowski starred as a third baseman on St. Louis' 1940s dynasty 
and Erv Dusak had a creditable MLB career as an outfielder. During the 
Second World War, Rickey left St. Louis to take over the Brooklyn Dodger 
organization, and when he expanded his scouting staff at the war's end 
in 1945, he hired Haak as a full-time Brooklyn scout. In that capacity, 
Haak was one of several Dodger evaluators who scouted Jackie Robinson while 
he played in the Negro Leagues. Robinson ultimately broke the baseball 
color line and went on to the Hall of Fame. Haak followed Rickey to the 
Pirates at the close of the 1950 season. Four years later, after scouting 
the Triple-A International League, he recommended the drafting of Clemente 
(ironically, from Brooklyn), who had been "hidden" on the Montreal Royals 
roster during the 1954 season. The highly talented, 19-year-old Clemente 
was only given 148 at bats with Montreal because the Dodgers did not have 
room for him on their MLB roster and didn't want to expose him to rival 
scouts and the Rule 5 draft.[4] Clemente's success inspired Haak, and the 
Pirate front office, to take an aggressive role in scouting Latin America 
and the Caribbean. According to his obituary, Haak's signings included 
José DeLeón, Cecilio Guante, Al McBean, Román Mejías, Omar Moreno, Manny 
Sanguillén, and Rennie Stennett. Many of these players were crucial members 
of the Pirates' 1971 and 1979 world championship teams. "We thank God for 
him", Sanguillén was quoted as saying in Haak's Times obituary. "He's opened 
the door for us."[5] Haak was the first recipient of the Scout of the Year 
award in 1984 in recognition of his lifetime of achievement.[6] He left 
Pittsburgh after the 1988 season, and spent the final five years of his 
scouting career working for the Houston Astros, retiring at the age of 
82. He died five years later, aged 87, in Palm Springs, California. Haak 
stunned baseball early in 1982, when he was quoted in the Associated Press 
as saying the Pirates' attendance woes were due to white fans being unattracted 
to a team with a high percentage of non-white players. Haak stated that 
"the people won't come out if you have too many blacks on a team, not if 
you have nine", and that the Pirates needed to recruit more whites for 
the team. The Pirates' owner, John Galbreath, described the quote as "very 
unfortunate", and denied that the statement reflected his beliefs or his 
son Dan's. The Pirates' third baseman, Bill Madlock, who was African-American, 
commented that Haak "told the truth...But it has been said before, so I 
