Howard "Howie" Rose (born February 13, 1954[1]) is an American sportscaster. 
He is currently a radio broadcaster for the New York Mets on WOR and formerly 
also called games for the New York Rangers and New York Islanders. Rose 
was born in Brooklyn into a Jewish family. He attended PS 205Q (The Alexander 
Graham Bell School), Benjamin N. Cardozo High School in Bayside, Queens 
and graduated from Queens College in 1977.[2] He lives on Long Island in 
Woodbury, New York with his wife and two daughters.[3] His oldest daughter 
Alyssa was an actress who has appeared on the soap opera One Life to Live. 
She currently has a podcast called Scoring Position. Rose started his career 
doing sports updates on New York City based SportsPhone, a telephone dial-in 
service, during the mid-1970s, which led to sports updates on news radio 
station WCBS-AM through the early 1980s. Rose has called Mets play-by-play 
on radio or television since 1995, and is regarded by fans and media outlets 
alike as an expert of Mets history.[4] He has previously hosted the "Mets 
Extra" pre- and post-game shows. He worked the television booth until the 
retirement of long-time Mets radio voice Bob Murphy in 2003. The following 
year, Rose took Murphy's spot alongside Gary Cohen on WFAN. Cohen became 
the play-by-play broadcaster on new Mets television network SportsNet New 
York starting during the 2006 season, sharing the radio booth with partner 
Tom McCarthy. In 2008, Wayne Hagin replaced McCarthy, and since 2012, Rose 
has called games with Josh Lewin. Starting in 2014, he has called games 
on WOR. He has also co-hosted MLB Now, joining Brian Kenny, Mark DeRosa 
and Ken Rosenthal on MLB Network. Rose has also been the master of the 
ceremonies during key Mets events, including Opening Day at Shea Stadium 
and Citi Field since 2004. He has hosted ceremonies marking the opening 
of Citi Field in 2009, the 40th anniversary of the Mets 1969 World Series 
victory, a special pregame ceremony honoring Ralph Kiner in 2008, and Mike 
Piazza's number retirement ceremony in 2016.[4] Rose's end-of-game catchphrase 
is, "Put it in the books", used after the final out is recorded in a Mets 
win. After Mets losses, Rose says "and the ballgame is over". When he uses 
the phrasing "and the Mets are leading by a score of _ to _", he is using 
the same diction as original Mets broadcaster Lindsey Nelson.[citation 
needed] Rose worked as a play-by-play radio announcer for the New York 
Rangers, and was paired mainly with Sal Messina. He is most recognized 
by Rangers fans for his call of "Matteau! Matteau! Matteau!" made when 
Stéphane Matteau scored the game-winning goal in double-overtime of Game 
7 of the 1994 NHL Eastern Conference Finals against the New Jersey Devils.[citation 
needed] Rose was the play-by-play announcer for Islanders telecasts where 
he works alongside Butch Goring. For the 2009–10 season, Rose's work was 
simulcast on radio as well. Rose replaced Jiggs McDonald on Islanders broadcasts 
in 1995–96 and was previously partnered with Ed Westfall, Joe Micheletti, 
and Billy Jaffe. After the 2015-2016 season, Rose announced he would not 
return to call Islanders games after the end of the season.[5] Rose was 
the original prime-time radio host on WFAN when the station went all-sports 
in 1987, hosting the program until 1995. Rose occasionally worked games 
for Fox NHL Saturday in the mid-1990s, and now works for Fox Saturday Baseball. 
He has also called Long Island Blackbirds basketball and soccer. On March 
1, 2013, his book Put it in the Book was released. The book is an autobiography 
and memoir of 50 years of Mets history. The book was co-written with Phil 
Pepe. In 2012, Rose was inducted into the National Jewish Sports Hall of 
Fame. He has won two Emmy awards for excellence in broadcasting for the 
