The Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome (commonly called the Metrodome) was a 
domed sports stadium located in downtown Minneapolis, Minnesota. It opened 
in 1982 as a replacement for Metropolitan Stadium, the former home of the 
National Football League's (NFL) Minnesota Vikings and Major League Baseball's 
(MLB) Minnesota Twins, and Memorial Stadium, the former home of the Minnesota 
Golden Gophers football and baseball teams. The Metrodome was the home 
of the Vikings from 1982 to 2013, the Twins from 1982 to 2009, the National 
Basketball Association's (NBA) Minnesota Timberwolves in their 1989–90 
inaugural season, the Golden Gophers football team until 2008 and the Golden 
Gophers baseball team from 2004 to 2012. It was also the home of the Minnesota 
Strikers of the North American Soccer League in 1984. On January 18, 2014, 
the Metrodome roof was deflated, signaling the beginning of demolition 
work. The Vikings played at the University of Minnesota's TCF Bank Stadium 
for the 2014 and 2015 NFL seasons, ahead of the planned opening of U.S. 
Bank Stadium in 2016. The stadium had a fiberglass fabric roof that was 
self-supported by air pressure and was the third major sports facility 
to have this feature (the first two being the Pontiac Silverdome and the 
Carrier Dome). The Metrodome was similar in design to the former RCA Dome 
and to BC Place before that stadium was reconfigured with a retractable 
roof. The Metrodome was reputedly the inspiration for the Tokyo Dome in 
Tokyo, Japan.[11][12] The stadium was the only facility to have hosted 
a Super Bowl (1992), World Series (1987, 1991), MLB All-Star Game (1985) 
and NCAA Division I Basketball Final Four (1992, 2001). The Metrodome was 
the ninth-oldest stadium in the NFL[clarification needed]. Locally, the 
Metrodome had several nicknames such as "The Dome",[13] "The Thunderdome",[14] 
and "The Homer Dome".[15] Preparation for the demolition of the Metrodome 
began the day after the facility hosted the final home game for the Minnesota 
Vikings on December 29, 2013, with actual demolition beginning on January 
18, 2014.[16][17] The Metrodome was torn down in sections while construction 
of U.S. Bank Stadium began.[18] By the early 1970s, the Minnesota Vikings 
were unhappy with Metropolitan Stadium's relatively small capacity for 
football (just under 48,500). Before the AFL-NFL merger, the NFL had declared 
that stadiums with a capacity smaller than 50,000 were not adequate for 
their needs. The biggest stadium in the area was the University of Minnesota's 
Memorial Stadium, but the Vikings were not willing to be tenants in a college 
football stadium and demanded a new venue. Supporters of a dome also believed 
that the Minnesota Twins would benefit from a climate-controlled stadium 
to insulate the team from harsh Minnesota weather later in the season. 
The Met would have likely needed to be replaced in any event, as it was 
not well maintained. Broken railings and seats could be seen in the upper 
deck by the early 1970s, and by its final season they had become a distinct 
safety hazard. Construction success of other domed stadiums, particularly 
the Pontiac Silverdome near Detroit, paved the way for voters to approve 
funding for a new stadium. Downtown Minneapolis was beginning a revitalization 
program, and the return of professional sports from suburban Bloomington 
was seen as a major success story. A professional team hadn't been based 
in downtown Minneapolis since the Minneapolis Lakers left for Los Angeles 
in 1960. Construction on the Metrodome began on December 20, 1979, and 
was funded by a limited hotel-motel and liquor tax, local business donations, 
and payments established within a special tax district near the stadium 
site.[19] Uncovering the Dome by Amy Klobuchar (now a U.S. Senator) describes 
the 10-year effort to build the venue.[20] The stadium was named in memory 
of former mayor of Minneapolis, U.S. Senator, and U.S. Vice President, 
Hubert Humphrey, who died in 1978.[21] The Metrodome itself cost $68 million 
to build—significantly under budget—totaling around $124 million with infrastructure 
and other costs associated with the project added.[5] It was a somewhat 
utilitarian facility, though not quite as spartan as Metropolitan Stadium. 
One stadium official once said that all the Metrodome was designed to do 
was "get fans in, let 'em see a game, and let 'em go home."[22] The Metrodome 
is the only venue to have hosted a MLB All-Star Game (1985), a Super Bowl 
(1992), an NCAA Final Four (1992 & 2001), and a World Series (1987 & 1991). 
The 1985 MLB All-Star Game, several games of the 1987 and the 1991 World 
Series, Super Bowl XXVI in 1992, and the 1998–99 NFC Championship all were 
held at the Metrodome. The NCAA Final Four was held at the Metrodome in 
1992 and 2001. The Metrodome also served as one of the four regional venues 
for the NCAA Division I Basketball Championship in 1986, 1989, 1996, 2000, 
2003, 2006, and 2009. The dome also held first- and second-round games 
in the NCAA Basketball Tournament in addition to regionals and the Final 
Four, most recently in 2009. The Metrodome was recognized as one of the 
loudest venues in which to view a game, due in part to the fact that sound 
was recycled throughout the stadium because of the fabric domed roof. Stadium 
loudness is a sports marketing issue, as the noise lends the home team 
a home advantage against the visiting team. Until its demolition, the Metrodome 
was the loudest domed NFL stadium.[23] During the 1987 World Series and 
1991 World Series, peak decibel levels were measured at 125 and 118 respectively 
comparable to a jet airliner—both close to the threshold of pain.[24][25] 
The 1991 World Series is considered one of the best of all time.[according 
to whom?][26] The blue colored seat back and bottom where Puckett's 1991 
World Series Game 6 walk off home run landed in Section 101, Row 5, Seat 
27 (renumbered 34 after the home run in honor of Kirby), is now in the 
Twins archives, along with the gold colored back and bottom that replaced 
it for a number of years. The Twins reinstalled a blue seat back and bottom 
as well as Puckett's #34 on the seat where it remained until the final 
Vikings game of 2013 in the Metrodome when, as local media reported, a 
fan took the #34 plate off the seat.[27] The original World Series armrests 
and hardware, as well as the replacement blue seat back and bottom, are 
now part of a private Kirby Puckett collection in Minnesota. 80,000[citation 
needed] Since the stadium was built, the economics of sports marketing 
have changed. Teams are charging higher prices for tickets, and are demanding 
more amenities, such as bigger clubhouses and locker rooms, more luxury 
suites, and more concession revenue. To that end, pressure has been applied 
by team owners, media, and fans to have the State of Minnesota provide 
newer, better facilities to host the teams. The Metrodome has served its 
primary purpose, to provide a climate-controlled facility in which to host 
the three sports tenants in Minnesota with the largest attendance. The 
indoor venue is particularly welcome in the highly variable climate of 
Minnesota. For Major League baseball, the Metrodome was widely thought 
of as a hitter's park, with a low (7 ft) left-field fence (343 ft) that 
favored right-handed power hitters, and the higher (23 ft) but closer (327 ft) 
right-field Baggie that favored left-handed power hitters.[36] Because 
the roof is very nearly the same color as a baseball, and transmits light, 
the Metrodome had a far higher error incidence than a normal stadium during 
day games, so instead of losing a fly ball in the sun, as is common for 
non-roofed stadiums, fly balls could easily get lost in the ceiling. Unlike 
most parks built during this time, Metrodome's baseball configuration had 
asymmetrical outfield dimensions. It gave up even more home runs before 
air conditioning was installed in 1983. Before 1983, the Dome had been 
nicknamed "the Sweat Box."[1] The Metrodome is climate controlled, and 
has protected the baseball schedule during the entire time it was the venue 
for the Minnesota Twins. Major League Baseball schedulers had the luxury 
of being able to count on dates played at Metrodome. Doubleheader games 
only occurred when purposely scheduled. The last time that happened was 
when the Twins scheduled a day-night doubleheader against the Kansas City 
Royals on August 31, 2007. The doubleheader was necessitated after an August 
2 game vs. Kansas City was postponed one day after the I-35W Bridge collapse 
in downtown Minneapolis. The Metrodome's air-supported roof was designed 
by the inventor of air-supported structures, David H. Geiger, through his 
New York-based Geiger Berger Associates, and manufactured and installed 
by Birdair Structures.[37] An air-supported structure supported by positive 
air pressure, it required 250,000 ft³/min (120 m³/s) of air to keep it 
inflated. The air pressure was supplied by twenty 90-horsepower fans.[38] 
The roof was made of two layers: the outer layers were Teflon-coated fiberglass 
and the inner was a proprietary acoustical fabric. By design, the dead 
air space between the layers insulated the roof; in winter, warm air was 
blown into the space between layers to help melt snow that had accumulated 
on top. At the time it was built, the 10 acres (4.0 ha) of fabric made 
the roof the largest expanse ever done in that manner.[39] The outside 
Teflon membrane was 1/32 of an inch thick and the inner liner of woven 
fiberglass was 1/64 of an inch thick.[40] The entire roof weighed roughly 
580,000 pounds. It reached 195 feet (59 m), or about 16 stories, at its 
highest point.[41] To prevent roof tears like those that occurred in its 
first years of service, the Metropolitan Sports Facilities Commission adopted 
a twofold strategy: When snow accumulation was expected, hot air was pumped 
into the space between the roof's two layers. Workers also climbed on the 
roof and used steam and high-powered hot-water hoses to melt snow.[42] 
In addition, before the storm that caused the December 2010 collapse, the 
inside of the stadium was heated to nearly 80 °F (26.7 °C).[40] To maintain 
the differential air pressure, spectators usually entered and left the 
seating and concourse areas through revolving doors, since the use of regular 
doors without an airlock would have caused significant loss of air pressure. 
The double-walled construction allowed warmed air to circulate beneath 
the top of the dome, melting accumulated snow. A sophisticated environmental 
control center in the lower part of the stadium was manned to monitor weather 
and make adjustments in air distribution to maintain the roof. Because 
it was unusually low to the playing field, the air-inflated dome occasionally 
figured into game action. Major League Baseball had specific ground rules 
for the Metrodome. Any ball which struck the Dome roof, or objects hanging 
from it, remained in play; if it landed in foul territory it became a foul 
ball, if it landed in fair territory it became a fair ball. Any ball which 
became caught in the roof over fair ground was a ground rule double. That 
has only happened three times in its history – Dave Kingman for the Oakland 
Athletics on May 4, 1984,[43] University of Minnesota Gophers player George 
Behr and Corey Koskie in 2004. The speakers, being closer to the playing 
surface, were hit more frequently, especially the speakers in foul ground 
near the infield, which were typically hit several times a season, which 
posed an extra challenge to infielders trying to catch them. However, beginning 
with the 2005 season, the ground rules for Twins games were changed such 
that any batted ball that struck a speaker in foul territory would automatically 
be called a foul ball, regardless of whether or not it was caught. The 
dome's roof color made it close to impossible to catch balls without taking 
the eye off the ball. As a result, fielders frequently lost balls in the 
roof. An example of this is seen in a home run derby put on by a softball 
entertainment crew prior to a Twins game. Taken at field level, the balls 
generally tended to be lost in the roof.[44] The roof was high enough that 
it has never been a concern for events other than baseball. Five times 
in the stadium's history, heavy snows or other weather conditions have 
significantly damaged the roof and in four instances caused it to deflate.[45] 
Four of the five incidents occurred within the stadium's first five years 
of operation: On November 19, 1981, a rapid accumulation of over a foot 
of snow caused the roof to collapse, requiring it to be re-inflated. It 
deflated the following winter on December 30, 1982, again because of a 
tear caused by heavy snow. This was four days before the Vikings played 
the Dallas Cowboys in the last regular-season game of the 1982 NFL season. 
In the spring following that same winter, on April 14, 1983, the Metrodome 
roof deflated because of a tear caused by a late-season heavy snow,[46] 
and the scheduled Twins' game with the California Angels was postponed. 
On April 26, 1986, the Metrodome roof suffered a slight tear because of 
high winds, causing a nine-minute delay in the bottom of the seventh inning 
versus the Angels; however, the roof did not deflate. Birdair had conducted 
a regular inspection of the Metrodome roof in April 2010. Its report to 
the Metropolitan Sports Facilities Commission stated that "the outer membrane 
is in good condition and still holding up well", and rated the inner liner's 
condition as "fair to poor".[47] The inspectors also noted that the inner 
liner of the roof was dirty (mostly due to emissions from automotive events) 
and had some holes in it, advising that the holes be monitored to avoid 
large tears from enlarging. In addition, Birdair noted some minor areas 
on the outer membrane that needed repairing, which were done by the time 
of the Commission's July regular meeting. Overall, Birdair noted the membrane 
was weathering as anticipated and had exceeded its service life of 20 years; 
it recommended planning for replacement of the roof fabric, and noted that 
planning and implementation would take an additional five years and cost 
$12–15 million.[47] In forming their own conclusion, the Metropolitan Sports 
Facilities Commission staff decided that the outer membrane was in very 
good shape and that the roof continued to have serviceable life, and planned 
to schedule another testing in four years; the Commission made no recommendations. 
A severe winter storm arrived on December 10–11, 2010, with over 17 inches 
(43 cm) of snow accumulation, and strong winds; those winds made the roof 
unsafe for the snow removal crew. As the workers were pulled back, the 
roof was already sagging in the center. On December 12 at about 5:00 a.m., 
the roof had a catastrophic collapse as three panels tore open. The night 
before, a Fox Sports crew setting up for an upcoming Vikings game noticed 
water leaking from the roof and kept their cameras on all night; those 
cameras captured the roof tearing and ice and snow falling into the stadium.[40][48] 
No one was injured. Most of the roof sagged and came to rest on cable stays. 
The collapse caused no damage inside the stadium aside from a light fixture 
and some seats. The turf was not damaged; a drainage system designed for 
cleaning purposes allowed the field to dry out.[49] On December 15, 2010, 
a fourth panel ripped open, sending more snow and ice into the dome.[50] 
The Vikings and the New York Giants had been scheduled to play a football 
game on the afternoon of December 12. The game had already been postponed 
to Monday night, the 13th, due to concerns of stadium officials.[51] Because 
of the tears in the roof, the NFL relocated the game to Ford Field in Detroit. 
The league considered moving that game to the University of Minnesota's 
nearby TCF Bank Stadium, but it had been shut down and winterized for the 
season and would have needed several days to prepare for a football game.[40][52] 
Tickets to the game were free, and the Giants ended up winning the game. 
Due to roof repair time estimates, the Vikings December 20 game against 
the Chicago Bears was moved to TCF Bank Stadium.[53] The final two games 
for the 2010 Minnesota Vikings season already were scheduled as road games, 
and the team had already been eliminated from the playoffs. The Gophers' 
first baseball game of their 2011 season at the Metrodome was scheduled 
for February 5.[54] However, on December 29, it was announced that the 
roof would not be repaired until the spring of 2011.[55] As a result, the 
Gophers were forced to cancel scheduled home games in March against Washington 
State, Hamline, North Dakota State, and Cal State Bakersfield as well as 
the annual Metrodome Tournament. A second tournament, the Dairy Queen Classic, 
was moved to Tucson, and a scheduled home series against Cal Poly was moved 
to Cal Poly.[56] On February 10, 2011, it was announced that the entire 
Metrodome roof needed to be replaced at an estimated cost of $18 million.[47][49][57][58] 
In November 2010, the University of Minnesota men's baseball team had announced 
plans to play all of their 2011 games at the Metrodome; however, the roof 
collapse caused those plans to be abandoned. On February 18, 2011, the 
Gophers announced that all 12 scheduled Big Ten home games in April and 
May would be played at Target Field, with three non-conference games moved 
to on-campus Siebert Field.[56] On July 13, 2011, it was announced that 
the roof was repaired and had been inflated that morning. However, other 
construction and repairs were still in progress. The remaining construction 
and repairs were done by August 1, 2011.[59] During its early years of 
operation, the field at the Metrodome was surfaced with SuperTurf.[60] 
The surface, also known as SporTurf, was very bouncy—so bouncy, in fact, 
that Billy Martin once protested a game after seeing a base hit that would 
normally be a pop single turn into a ground rule double.[22] Baseball and 
football players alike complained that it was too hard. This surface was 
upgraded to Astroturf in 1987, and in 2004, the sports commission had a 
newer artificial surface, called FieldTurf, installed. FieldTurf is thought 
to be a closer approximation to natural grass than Astroturf in its softness, 
appearance, and feel. A new Sportexe Momentum Turf surface was installed 
during the summer of 2010.[61][62] When the conversion between football 
and baseball took place, the pitcher's mound was raised and lowered by 
an electric motor. The mound weighed 23,000 pounds and was 18 feet in diameter.[3] 
With the field repair, the sliding pits and pitcher's mound used by the 
Twins and Gophers were removed. Any future baseball games would see baserunners 
slide on "grass." The home plate area was kept, as it was not "in-play" 
for football configuration. The original homeplate installed at the dome 
was memorably dug up after the Twins' final game and has been installed 
at Target Field. A new field was installed in summer of 2011 due to the 
damage from the December 2010 roof collapse. From 1982 to 2009, one of 
the most recognizable features of the Metrodome was the centerfield fence 
with the large original white and later, yellow 408 ft. marking. The centerfield 
fence is 7 feet high and 30 feet long. The centerfield fence 408 ft. marking 
were originally painted white but was repainted gold although the original 
white is still visible under the yellow.[citation needed] The centerfield 
fence hung in the dome through both the 1987 and 1991 Minnesota Twins World 
Series Championship victories. The fence was removed after the last Twins 
season in the Metrodome in 2009. The centerfield fence is now kept in a 
private collection in Minnesota along with the Metrodome seat that Kirby 
Puckett's 11th inning 1991 World Series Game 6 winning walk-off home run 
ball landed in. From 1985 to 1994, the left-field wall included a 6-foot 
(1.8 m) clear Plexiglas screen for a total height of 13 feet (4.0 m).[3] 
It was off this Plexiglas wall that Twins player Kirby Puckett jumped to 
rob Ron Gant of the Atlanta Braves of an extra-base hit during Game 6 of 
the 1991 World Series (a game that Puckett would win with an 11th-inning 
walk-off homer) – in later years, with the Plexiglas removed, it would 
have been a potential home run ball. The Metrodome's right-field wall was 
composed of the 7-foot (2.1 m)-high fence around the whole outfield and 
a 16-foot (4.9 m)-high plastic wall extension in right field, known as 
the "Baggie", or the "Hefty Bag." The seats above and behind the Baggie 
were home run territory; the Baggie itself was part of the outfield wall. 
Fenway Park's "Green Monster", a comparable but taller feature, is 17 feet 
(5.2 m) closer to home plate than the Baggie was, so batters who hit short, 
high fly balls were not typically helped by it. However, it was an attractive 
target for left-handed power hitters, and it was not uncommon for upper-deck 
home runs to be hit to right field. When in a rectangular configuration 
for football and other small-field events, the Baggie was taken down and 
the seats behind it extended to form complete lower-deck seating. As the 
stadium was designed first and foremost for the Minnesota Vikings, they 
had the fewest problems. However, the economics of 21st century professional 
sports meant that the Vikings owners wanted more luxury suites and better 
concessions. Renovations were rejected twice, with the 2001 price tag at 
$269 million.[63] The Vikings played their first game at the Metrodome 
in a preseason matchup against the Seattle Seahawks on August 21, 1982. 
Minnesota won 7-3. The first touchdown in the dome was scored by Joe Senser 
on an 11-yard pass from Tommy Kramer. The first regular-season game at 
the Metrodome was the 1982 opener on September 12, when the Vikings defeated 
Tampa Bay Buccaneers, 17-10. Rickey Young scored the first regular-season 
touchdown in the dome on a 3-yard run in the 2nd quarter. On January 9, 
1983, the Vikings defeated the Atlanta Falcons, 30-24, in a 1st-round game 
that was the first playoff game at the Metrodome. On January 17, 1999, 
the Falcons defeated the Vikings in the first NFC championship game played 
at the dome. On December 29, 2013, the Vikings played their final game 
at the Metrodome, a 14-13 victory over the Detroit Lions. The team's all-time 
record at the dome was 162-88 in the regular season and 6-4 in playoff 
games. They finished with a perfect record at the dome against the Arizona 
Cardinals (8-0), Baltimore Ravens (1-0), Cincinnati Bengals (4-0), and 
Houston Texans (1-0), but with a winless record there against the New York 
Jets (0-3). NFL owners voted to award Super Bowl XXVI to Minneapolis over 
Indianapolis, Pontiac and Seattle.[64] during their May 24, 1989 meeting. 
The game on January 26, 1992 was the second Super Bowl to be played in 
a cold, winter climate city. The first one was Super Bowl XVI on January 
24, 1982 in Pontiac, Michigan. The Washington Redskins defeated the Buffalo 
Bills 37-24. When opened in 1982, the Metrodome was appreciated for the 
protection it gave from mosquitoes, and later the weather.[25] Over the 
years there had been a love-hate relationship with the fans, sportswriters, 
and stadium.[25][65] The Minnesota Twins won two World Series championships 
at the Metrodome. The Twins won the 1987 World Series and 1991 World Series 
by winning all four games held at the Dome in both seasons.[66] The loud 
noise, white roof, quick turf, and the right-field wall (or "Baggie") provided 
a substantial home-field advantage for the Twins.[25] The 1991 World Series 
has been considered one of the best of all time.[26][67][68][69] For Twins 
baseball, the address of the Metrodome became 34 Kirby Puckett Place, an 
honor given to one of the most famous Minnesota Twins players.[3] In 1996, 
a section of Chicago Avenue in front of the Metrodome was renamed Kirby 
Puckett Place by the city of Minneapolis.[70] The Metrodome Plaza was added 
along Kirby Puckett Place before the 1996 season.[3] Before that, the address 
for the Twins was 501 Chicago Avenue South. For baseball, the Metrodome 
informally has been called "The House That Puck Built."[71] By 2001, several 
newer purpose-built Major League Baseball stadiums had been constructed, 
and the Metrodome was considered to be among the worst venues in Major 
League Baseball.[72][73][74] Only two Twins games at the Metrodome were 
ever postponed. The first was on April 14, 1983, when a massive snowstorm 
prevented the California Angels from getting to Minneapolis. The game would 
have likely been postponed in any case, however; that night heavy snow 
caused part of the roof to collapse.[1] The second was on August 2, 2007, 
the day after the I-35W Mississippi River bridge had collapsed a few blocks 
away from the Metrodome. The game scheduled for August 1 was played as 
scheduled (about one hour after the bridge had collapsed) because the team 
and police officials were concerned about too many fans departing Metrodome 
at one time, potentially causing conflict with rescue workers. The August 
2 ceremonial groundbreaking at the eventual Target Field was also postponed, 
for the same reason. The Metrodome would carry a memorial decal on the 
backstop wall for the remainder of the 2007 season.[75] The Twins played 
their final scheduled regular season game at the Metrodome on October 4, 
2009, beating the Kansas City Royals, 13–4. After the game, they held their 
scheduled farewell celebration. Because they ended the day tied with the 
Detroit Tigers for first place in the American League Central, a one-game 
playoff between the teams was played there on October 6, 2009, with the 
Twins beating the Tigers 6–5 in 12 innings. The division clincher would 
be the Twins' last win at the Metrodome. The announced crowd was 54,088, 
setting the regular-season attendance record. The final Twins game at the 
Metrodome was on October 11, 2009, when they lost to the New York Yankees 
4–1, resulting in three-game sweep in the 2009 ALDS. The Twins' appearance 
in this series gave Metrodome the distinction of being the first American 
League stadium to end its Major League Baseball history with post-season 
play. The only other stadiums whose final games came in the post-season 
are Atlanta Fulton County Stadium (1996), the Houston Astrodome (1999) 
and St. Louis's Busch Memorial Stadium (2005), all of which were home venues 
for National League teams. When configured as a basketball arena, the fans 
in the nearby bleachers got a suitable view of the court, but the action 
was difficult to see in the upper decks. Concessions were very far away 
from the temporary infrastructure. The Metrodome as a basketball arena 
was much larger than most NBA and major college basketball arenas, which 
run to about 20,000 seats; it functioned like Syracuse's large Carrier 
Dome. However, the NCAA made a significant amount of money selling the 
high number of seats for regional and championship games for the men's 
basketball tournament. Ten NCAA tournaments have taken place at the stadium: 
The Timberwolves used the stadium for its home games during its inaugural 
season (1989–90) in the NBA while the team waited for construction of Target 
Center to be completed. The team set NBA records for the highest single-season 
attendance ever: 1,072,572 fans in 41 home games. The largest crowd for 
a single game occurred on April 17, 1990: 49,551 fans watched the T-Wolves 
lose to the Denver Nuggets in the last game of the season. This was the 
third largest crowd in NBA's history. Beginning in the 1982 college football 
season, the University of Minnesota Golden Gophers began playing their 
home football games at the Metrodome. The first game was a 57-3 victory 
over the Ohio Bobcats on September 11, 1982.[76] With the Gophers' move 
to TCF Bank Stadium, only three NCAA Division I FBS football programs now 
play in domed stadiums. Idaho and Syracuse have their own such facilities 
on campus (the Kibbie Dome and the Carrier Dome, respectively), and Georgia 
State plays its home games in the Georgia Dome. When the Gophers first 
moved to the Metrodome, the NFL-class facilities were seen as an improvement 
over the aging Memorial Stadium. Initially, attendance increased.[77] However, 
fans waxed nostalgic over fall days playing outdoors on campus.[78] TCF 
Bank Stadium now provides an outdoor, on-campus venue for the team. In 
the 2010 season, the University of Minnesota Golden Gopher Baseball team 
played all of their home games at the Metrodome (with the exception of 
a game at the new Target Field on March 27, 2010).[79] The University of 
Minnesota Golden Gophers baseball team has played games at the Metrodome 
during February and March since 1985 because of weather. Later games were 
played at Siebert Field, except for 2006 when all but two home games were 
played at the Metrodome. The team often played major tournaments at the 
Dome, which included the Dairy Queen Classic, where three other major Division 
I baseball teams play in an invitational. Prior to the NCAA's 2008 rule 
in Division I regarding the start of the college baseball season, the Golden 
Gophers would often play home games at the Metrodome earlier than other 
teams in the area to neutralize the advantage of warmer-weather schools 
starting their seasons earlier in the year. Some early Big Ten conference 
games were played at the Metrodome, and the Golden Gophers enjoyed home 
field advantage during the early part of the season before the weather 
warmed, and the Gophers could play games on-campus. Other small colleges 
also played games in the stadium during the weeks before the Metrodome 
was open for Division I play. In 2010, 420 amateur baseball and softball 
games—including the majority of the Golden Gophers' home schedule—were 
played at the Metrodome.[80] The size of Siebert Field also affected the 
Golden Gophers starting in 2010. The Golden Gophers last hosted an NCAA 
baseball tournament regional in 2000, with temporary seating added. With 
the Metrodome being available for the tournament starting in 2010, the 
team could easily place a bid for, and have a better possibility of hosting, 
an NCAA baseball regional or super regional. Other cold-weather teams have 
played at the Metrodome. Big 12 Conference member Kansas has played two 
series (2007 and 2010) at the Metrodome because of inclement weather against 
South Dakota State University and Eastern Michigan, respectively.[81] The 
Minnesota Kicks were supposed to move into the Metrodome for the 1982 NASL 
season. However, the franchise folded in November 1981. The Minnesota Strikers 
played the 1984 NASL season at the Dome. MSHSL boys and girls soccer championships 
were also held at the stadium. The Minnesota Thunder played selected games 
at the Dome from 1990 to 2009. The Minnesota Stars FC opened their 2012 
season at the stadium. The Minnesota United FC used the Dome for the 2013 
NASL Spring Season. The field dimensions for soccer at the Metrodome were 
110 by 70 yards (101 m × 64 m). The largest crowd to see a soccer game 
in Minnesota was at the Metrodome. 52,621 saw the Minnesota Strikers defeat 
Tampa Bay 1-0 on May 28, 1984. The concert capacity of the Metrodome was 
around 60,000 people, depending on seating and stage configurations, which 
made it a profitable location for stadium tours during the late 80s and 
90s. By comparison, the Target Center in Minneapolis has a concert capacity 
of up to 20,500. Acoustics at the Metrodome for these concerts were "iffy 
at best".[82] The Metrodome was constructed in an area of downtown Minneapolis 
known as "Industry Square".[86] Development in the Downtown East neighborhood 
around Metrodome took many years to materialize. For many years, there 
were few bars or restaurants nearby where fans could gather, and tailgating 
was expressly forbidden in most parking areas. The City of Minneapolis 
was directing the development of the entertainment districts along Seven 
Corners in Cedar-Riverside, Hennepin Avenue, and the Warehouse district. 
The Metrodome existed among a number of parking areas built upon old rail 
yards, along with defunct factories and warehouses. The Star Tribune owns 
a number of blocks nearby that have remained parking lots. Metrodome was 
not connected to the Minneapolis Skyway System, although that had been 
proposed in 1989 to be completed in time to host Super Bowl XXVI. The Star 
Tribune properties, and the Minneapolis Armory never have been developed, 
and stood between the Metrodome and the rest of Downtown Minneapolis. Only 
in recent years did redevelopment begin moving Southeast to reach the Metrodome. 
More restaurants, hotels, and condominiums have been built nearby. The 
METRO Blue Line light rail connected the Minneapolis entertainment district 
with the Metrodome and the Airport. The Metrodome was not a true multi-purpose 
stadium. Rather, it was built as a football stadium that could convert 
into a baseball stadium. The seating configuration was almost rectangular 
in shape. The seats along the four straight sides directly faced their 
corresponding seats on the opposite side, while the seats in the corners 
were four quarter-circles. While this was more than suitable for football, 
with few exceptions this resulted in poor sight lines for baseball. For 
instance, the seats directly along the left field line faced the center 
field and right field fences. Unlike other major league parks, there were 
no seats down to field level.[22] Even the closest front-row seats were 
at least 5 or 6 feet (1.5 or 1.8 m) above the field. The way that many 
seats were situated forced some fans to crane their necks to see the area 
between the pitcher's mound and home plate. Some fans near the foul poles 
had to turn more than 80°, compared to less than 70 with the original Yankee 
Stadium or 75° at Camden Yards. For that reason, the seats down the left 
field line were typically among the last ones sold; the (less expensive) 
outfield lower deck seating tended to fill up sooner. Nearly 1,400 seats 
had obscured or partial visibility to the playing field – some of them 
due to the right field upper deck being directly above (and somewhat overhanging) 
the folded-up football seats behind right field; and some of them due to 
steel beams in the back rows of the upper deck which are part of the dome's 
support system. On the plus side, there was relatively little foul territory, 
which is not typical of most domed stadiums. Also, with the infield placed 
near one corner, the seats near home plate and the dugouts, where most 
game action occurs, had some of the closest views in Major League Baseball. 
Seats in these areas were popularly known as "the baseball section." In 
2007, some extra rows (normally used only for football) were retained for 
baseball, in the area behind home plate. The sight lines were also very 
good in the right field corner area, which faced the infield and was closer 
to the action than the left field corner. The Twins stopped selling most 
of the seats in sections 203–212 of the upper level in 1996. This area 
was curtained off except during the postseason or on occasions when a sellout 
was anticipated. As part of the deal with Metrodome, the Minnesota Twins 
had post-season priority over the Gophers in scheduling. If the Twins were 
in the playoffs with a home series, the baseball game took priority and 
the Gopher football game had to be moved to a time suitable to allow the 
grounds crew to convert the playing field and the stands to the football 
configuration. The last month of Major League Baseball's regular season 
often included one or two Saturdays in which the Twins and Gophers used 
Metrodome on the same day. On those occasions, the Twins game would start 
at about 11 am local time (TV announcer Dick Bremer sometimes joked that 
the broadcast was competing with SpongeBob SquarePants). Afterward, the 
conversion took place and the Gophers football game started at about 6 pm. 
The University of Minnesota was the only school in the Big Ten that shared 
a football facility with professional sports teams for an extended period 
of years. In 2007, there were two such schedule conflicts, on September 
1 and 22. In 2008, there were no conflicts on the regular-season schedule. 
Due to the minimum time needed to convert the field, a baseball game that 
ran long in clock time had to be suspended, and concluded the next day. 
The only time this happened was on October 2, 2004, when a game between 
the Twins and Indians reached the end of the 11th inning after 2:30 pm 
in a tie and resumed the next day.[87][88][89][90] The Vikings had rights 
to the Dome over the Twins except for World Series games. In 1987, the 
Vikings' home date with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers scheduled for the same 
day as Game 2 of the World Series was moved to Tampa, and the Vikings' 
game with the Denver Broncos scheduled for the same day as Game 7 was pushed 
back to the following Monday night. The Twins' 2009 AL Central division 
tiebreaker with the Detroit Tigers was played on Tuesday, October 6, 2009. 
One-game playoffs are normally held the day after the regular season ends 
(in this case, the season ended on Sunday, October 4), but the Vikings 
were using Metrodome for Monday Night Football on October 5. The Twins 
were awarded the right to host the tiebreaker because they won the season 
series against Detroit. The Metrodome will also be remembered in NFL history 
as the site of four of the longest NFL touchdowns in history in terms of 
yardage. From scrimmage, only 14 plays have ever gone the maximum 99 yards 
for a touchdown in league history. The lone run in that list is by Dallas 
Cowboys running back Tony Dorsett against the Vikings on January 3, 1983 
during a Monday Night Football game. One of the 13 such pass plays is Vikings 
quarterback Gus Frerotte's connection with receiver Bernard Berrian during 
a game against the Chicago Bears on November 30, 2008. Because returns 
can go longer than 99 yards, the Metrodome had also seen the record set 
for longest return at the maximum possible total of 109 yards. On November 
4, 2007, the San Diego Chargers' Antonio Cromartie returned a missed Vikings 
field goal for a touchdown, a mark that stood unequaled until October 27, 
2013, when Minnesota's Cordarrelle Patterson returned the Green Bay Packers' 
opening kickoff of Sunday Night Football, the maximum distance. In 2009, 
Mall of America purchased naming rights for the field at Metrodome. The 
contract stated that the field would be called "Mall of America Field at 
Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome" for a three-year period, beginning October 
5, 2009, and ending February 28, 2012.[91] The name was still used for 
the 2012 and 2013 seasons. Despite possible inference from the signage, 
the MoA name applied only to the field, not the stadium as a whole. The 
building remained Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome. The connection between 
Mall of America and the Metrodome is also notable because Mall of America 
is built on the site of the former Metropolitan Stadium. From the tops 
of the outfield fences upwards, the baseball foul poles in the Metrodome 
were unique, in that they were not "poles" at all. Instead, they consisted 
of a fabric-like material. In left field, the "pole" hung from the roof, 
down to the top of the left field fence. In right field, the "pole" hung 
from the bottom of the upper deck to the top of the right field fence. 
Because the upper deck in right field overhung the playing field slightly, 
this resulted in the foul pole not being vertical, actually leaning inward 
slightly toward home plate.[92] With the passage of time, Metrodome was 
thought to be an increasingly poor fit for all three of its major tenants 
(the Twins, the Vikings and the University of Minnesota Golden Gophers 
football team). These tenants all said that the Dome was nearing the end 
of its useful lifespan. One major complaint was about the concourses, which 
were considered somewhat narrow by modern standards, making for cramped 
conditions whenever attendance was anywhere near capacity.[93] During a 
2010 Vikings game, Fox Sports' Alex Marvez wrote that the Metrodome's passageways 
were so cramped that it would be difficult for fans to evacuate in the 
event of an emergency.[94] Two of the former tenants, the Gophers (football) 
and Twins, moved out, while the Vikings played their final years there 
until demolition. The Vikings' 2014 and 2015 seasons were played at the 
University of Minnesota's TCF Bank Stadium, and U.S. Bank Stadium, built 
on the Metrodome site, opened in time for the team's 2016 season. The Twins, 
the Vikings, and the Gophers all proposed replacements for the Metrodome, 
and all three were accepted. The first of the three major tenants to move 
was the Gophers, who opened their new TCF Bank Stadium in September 2009. 
The next to depart were the Twins, whose new Target Field was completed 
in time for Opening Day 2010. On May 10, 2012, the Vikings were granted 
a new stadium by the Minnesota legislators that will be built on the Metrodome 
site and is projected to open in 2016. Governor Mark Dayton signed the 
bill on May 14. The Twins moved to their new ballpark, Target Field, in 
2010,[95] after attaining their new stadium with an effort that began in 
the mid-1990s. Although indoor baseball had critics when Metrodome opened, 
it was positively regarded by players and fans.[96] By 2001, with Metrodome's 
peculiarities revealed, and several newer purpose-built Major League Baseball 
stadiums constructed, an ESPN Page 2 reader poll ranked it as one of the 
worst Major League Baseball stadiums.[72] Twins management claimed Metrodome 
generated too little revenue for the Twins to be competitive; specifically, 
they received no revenue from luxury suite leasing (as those are owned 
by the Vikings) and only a small percentage of concessions sales. Also, 
the percentage of season-ticket-quality seats was said to be very low compared 
to other stadiums. From 2003 through 2009, the Twins had year-to-year leases, 
and could have moved to another city at any time. However, with no large 
American markets or new major-league-quality stadiums existing without 
a current team, it was accepted that the Twins could not profit from a 
move. The Twins sought a taxpayer subsidy of more than $200 million to 
assist in construction of the stadium. On January 9, 2005, the Twins went 
to court to argue that their Metrodome lease should be considered "dead" 
after the 2005 season. In February, the district court ruled that the Twins' 
lease was year-to-year and the team could vacate Metrodome at the end of 
the 2005 season. In late April 2007, Hennepin County officially took over 
the future ballpark site (through a form of Eminent domain called "Quick-Take") 
which had been an ongoing struggle between the county and the land owners. 
On October 15, 2007, the two sides reached a negotiated settlement of just 
under $29 million, ending the dispute. As a result, the county noted it 
would have to cut back on some improvements to the surrounding streetscapes, 
though it also revealed that the Pohlad family had committed another $15 million 
for infrastructure.[97] The Minnesota Golden Gophers football program began 
playing in Metrodome for the 1982 season. Attendance was expected to increase 
over the old Memorial Stadium attendance, especially for late fall games, 
due to the climate controlled comfort. Initially, average attendance had 
increased over previous seasons at Memorial Stadium.[77] But, the venue 
was removed from the traditional on-campus football atmosphere if fans 
wanted to attend a Gophers football game. Students had to take a bus from 
the campus to the stadium. The distance from the main campus, along with 
poor performance by the Gopher football team, caused interest to wane.[98] 
The Gophers officially moved back onto campus, to TCF Bank Stadium, for 
the 2009 football season. The University believed an on-campus stadium 
would motivate its student base for increased ticket sales, and also would 
benefit from athletic revenues, not only for the football program, but 
the non-revenue sports as well. The new stadium reportedly cost less than 
half of a current-era NFL-style football stadium, and was built on what 
were former surface parking lots just a few blocks east of the former Memorial 
Stadium, with the naming rights purchased by TCF Bank. The University of 
Minnesota expected to raise more than half the cost of the stadium via 
private donations. The Gopher Stadium bill was passed by both houses on 
May 20, 2006, the day before the Twins Stadium bill passed. On May 24, 
2006, Governor Pawlenty signed the Gopher bill on the University campus. 
The Vikings initially supported a Superfund site in Arden Hills, but costs 
of developing infrastructure made the site unworkable.[99] A number of 
sites in Minneapolis were floated, before the team and state settled on 
a location adjacent to and including the current Metrodome site.[100] On 
May 10, 2012, the Minnesota Legislature approved funding for a new Vikings 
stadium on that site. The project has a budget of $1.027 billion, with 
the Vikings covering $529 million, the state covering $348 million, and 
$150 million covered by a hospitality tax in Minneapolis.[101] The bill 
was signed by Governor Dayton on May 14. The Vikings played in the Metrodome 
until the end of the 2013 season.[10] The Vikings' temporary home during 
construction was TCF Bank Stadium.[102][103] With the approval of the new 
Vikings stadium at the Dome site by the Minnesota legislature, the fate 
of the Metrodome was sealed. The Vikings played their final game at the 
Metrodome on December 29, 2013, beating the Detroit Lions 14-13.[104] The 
following day, a local company began removal of seats for sale to the public 
and various charities and nonprofits. Individual chairs went for $40/each 
to charities, $60/each to the public, and $80 apiece for specific seat 
requests.[105] The roof was deflated for the final time on January 18, 
starting at 7:15 a.m. The process took about 35 minutes.[106][107] After 
the deflation, demolition crews began cutting out individual panels of 
the teflon roof that would continue all the way up until the morning that 
the roof cables were severed, and no more than a week after the deflation, 
the entire loading dock section of the Metrodome was demolished. Much like 
the first few early phases of demolition, it was decided that the Metrodome 
would be torn down via wrecking ball, rather than implosion—due to the 
concern that vibration and dust from an implosion would have on nearby 
downtown Minneapolis neighborhoods and Hennepin County Medical Center, 
which sat catacorner from the now-demolished Metrodome. The original demolition 
plan called for the Metrodome to be torn down section by section in a counter-clockwise 
motion (starting with the northeast corner of the stadium) as the exterior 
of the new stadium was built adjacent to and around the continuously-diminishing 
structure of the Metrodome, as this animation shows: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rDnJsZJsH-M 
However, when part of the concrete ring beam collapsed out-of-sequence 
during demolition on February 17 (additional information below), the order 
in which the sections were actually torn down was completely changed and 
rather disorganized. Nevertheless, all sections were successfully and eventually 
taken down and no setbacks in the demolition process occurred as a result 
of the ring beam collapse. On the morning of February 2, 2014, just after 
7:30 a.m., the steel support cables that stretched from end-to-end of stadium 
that held together the roof were severed, as construction crews set off 
a simultaneous set of 42 explosive charges that detached the cables from 
the concrete structure. The general public was not informed about this 
phase of the demolition process, prompting about a half-dozen phone calls 
to police from people who wondered what was going on. This was viewed as 
the final step before the destruction of the concrete bowl of the Metrodome 
would begin.[108][109] On February 10, 2014, shortly after 9:15 a.m., after 
more than two months of preliminary work that dated back all the way to 
the groundbreaking of the new Vikings stadium, demolition of the stadium 
walls finally began. Just after 1 p.m on February 17, 2014, one week after 
demolition of the stadium bowl had begun, demolition crews were working 
on taking down the concrete ring beam that encircled to top of the Metrodome, 
when a portion of the ring beam collapsed out of sequence, bringing an 
immediate halt to the work. No one was hurt and no equipment was damaged 
by the collapse.[110] After five days of investigation from structural 
and demolition experts, it was decided that the remaining portion of the 
concrete ring beam would be destroyed using controlled explosive charges—virtually 
the same method that was used to bring down the Metrodome's steel support 
cables for the roof. This second controlled explosion was a continued deviation 
from the original plan to not use explosives to destroy the stadium. However, 
it was determined that this was the safest way to bring down the remaining 
ring beam structure.[111] On February 23, 2014, just after 7:30 a.m., with 
84 explosive charges of dynamite, set in 24 columns of the upper concourse 
of the stadium, the remaining ring beam and corners of the Metrodome were 
brought down in 11 seconds. Once the concrete ring beam was brought down 
successfully, this enabled demolition crews to continue with the original 
wrecking ball demolition method that was originally chosen (though the 
order in which the sections would be brought down were changed as a result 
of the ring beam implosion), to bring down what was left of the Metrodome. 
Despite this unexpected setback, Mortenson Construction said that the demolition 
of the Metrodome and construction of U.S. Bank Stadium were both still 
on schedule.[112] On March 15, 2014, at approximately 1 p.m., the final 
upper deck bleachers and concrete bleacher-support girders (on the northwest 
side of the Metrodome) were brought down, taking away any standing remnants 
of the exterior stadium walls. On April 11, 2014, just after 1:30 p.m., 
the final portion of the inner-stadium concrete walls (that were only visible 
due to the stadium's subsequent removal of the upper deck bleachers and 
baseball press box that stood in front of it) were reduced to rubble, marking 
the official end of the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome. Demolition of the 
Metrodome was formally declared complete on April 17, 2014, just after 
1 p.m.--one full month ahead of schedule—as the final truckload of rubble 
was loaded up and removed from the new stadium construction site. Officials 
from Mortenson Construction said the entire demolition job required 4,910 
