The Hudson Valley comprises the valley of the Hudson River and its adjacent 
communities in the U.S. state of New York, from the cities of Albany and 
Troy southward to Yonkers in Westchester County.[1] Depending upon the 
definition delineating its boundaries, the Hudson Valley encompasses a 
growing metropolis which is home to between 3 and 3.5 million residents 
centered along the north-south axis of the Hudson River. The Hudson River 
valley runs more or less north to south down the eastern edge of New York 
State, cutting through a series of rock types including Triassic sandstones 
and redbeds in the south and much more ancient Precambrian gneiss in the 
north (and east). In the Hudson Highlands, the river enters a fjord cut 
during previous ice ages. To the west lie the extensive Appalachian highlands. 
In the Tappan Zee region, the west side of the river has high cliffs produced 
by an erosion-resistant diabase; these cliffs range from 400–800 feet in 
height.[2] The Hudson Valley is one physiographic section of the larger 
Ridge-and-Valley province, which in turn is part of the larger Appalachian 
physiographic division.[3] The northern portions of the Hudson Valley fall 
within the Eastern Great Lakes and Hudson Lowlands Ecoregion. During the 
last ice age, the valley was filled by a large glacier that pushed south 
as far as Long Island. Near the end of the last ice age, the Great Lakes 
drained south down the Hudson River, from a large glacial lake called Lake 
Iroquois.[4] Lake Ontario is the remnant of that Lake. Large sand deposits 
remain from where Lake Iroquois drained into the Hudson; these are now 
part of the Rome Sand Plains. At the time of the arrival of the first Europeans 
in the 17th century, the area of Hudson Valley was inhabited primarily 
by the Algonquian-speaking Mahican and Lenape Native American peoples,[6][7] 
known collectively as River Indians.[8] The first Dutch settlement was 
in the 1610s with the establishment of Fort Nassau, a trading post (factorij) 
south of modern-day Albany, with the purpose of exchanging European goods 
for beaver pelts. Fort Nassau was later replaced by Fort Orange. During 
the rest of the 17th century, the Hudson Valley formed the heart of the 
New Netherland colony operations, with the New Amsterdam settlement on 
Manhattan serving as a post for supplies and defense of the upriver operations.[9] 
During the French and Indian War in the 1750s, the northern end of the 
valley became the bulwark of the British defense against French invasion 
from Canada via Lake Champlain.[10] The valley became one of the major 
regions of conflict during the American Revolution. Part of the early strategy 
of the British was to sever the colonies in two by maintaining control 
of the river.[11] In 1797, the state capital of New York was established 
permanently at Albany. Following the building of the Erie Canal, the area 
became an important industrial center. The canal opened the Hudson Valley 
and New York City to commerce with the Midwest and Great Lakes regions.[12] 
However, in the mid 20th century, many of the industrial towns went into 
decline.[13] In the early 19th century, popularized by the stories of Washington 
Irving, the Hudson Valley gained a reputation as a somewhat gothic region 
inhabited by the remnants of the early days of the Dutch colonization of 
New York (see, e.g., The Legend of Sleepy Hollow). The area is associated 
with the Hudson River School, a group of American Romantic painters who 
worked from about 1830 to 1870.[14] The natural beauty of the Hudson Valley 
has earned the Hudson River the nickname "America's Rhineland",[15][16] 
a comparison to the famous 40 mile (65 km) stretch of Germany's Rhine River 
valley between the cities of Bingen and Koblenz. A similar 30-mile (48 km) 
stretch of the east bank in Dutchess and Columbia counties has been designated 
a National Historic Landmark. Tourism became a major industry as early 
as 1810, as elite visitors frequented the mineral water at Ballston Spa 
and Saratoga Springs for their health. With convenient steamboat connections 
in New York City, and numerous attractive hotels in romantic settings, 
tourism became an important industry. Early guidebooks providing suggestions 
on their itinerary. Middle-class people who read James Fenimore Cooper's 
novels, or saw the paintings of the Hudson River School, were especially 
attracted.[17] Tech Valley is a marketing name for the eastern part of 
New York State, including the Hudson Valley and the Capital District.[18] 
Originated in 1998 to promote the greater Albany area as a high-tech competitor 
to regions such as Silicon Valley and Boston, it has since grown to represent 
the counties in New York between IBM's Westchester County plants in the 
south and the Canada–US border to the north. The area's high technology 
ecosystem is supported by technologically focused academic institutions 
including Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and the State University of 
New York Polytechnic Institute.[19] Tech Valley encompasses 19 counties 
straddling both sides of the Adirondack Northway and the New York Thruway,[18] 
and with heavy state taxpayer subsidy, has experienced significant growth 
in the computer hardware side of the high-technology industry, with great 
strides in the nanotechnology sector, digital electronics design, and water- 
and electricity-dependent integrated microchip circuit manufacturing,[20] 
involving companies including IBM in Armonk and its Thomas J. Watson Research 
Center in Yorktown, GlobalFoundries in Malta, and others.[19][21][22] Westchester 
County has developed a burgeoning biotechnology sector in the 21st century, 
with over US$1 billion in planned private investment as of 2016,[23] earning 
the county the nickname Biochester.[24] The Hudson Valley is the oldest 
wine making and grape-growing region in the United States, with roots established 
as early as 1677, and has experienced a resurgence in viticulture in the 
21st century. Many wineries are located in the Hudson Valley, offering 
wine-tasting and other tours.[25] Numerous wine festivals are held in the 
Hudson Valley, with themes often varying by season.[26] Although sizable 
Orthodox Jewish communities are located throughout the United States, the 
majority of American Orthodox Jews live in New York State, particularly 
in the New York City Metropolitan Area. Two of the main Orthodox communities 
in the United States are located in New York City and Rockland County. 
The most rapidly growing community of American Orthodox Jews is located 
in Rockland and Orange counties in the Hudson Valley, including the communities 
of Monsey, Monroe, New Square, and Kiryas Joel. The Hudson Valley is divided 
into three regions: Lower, Middle, and Upper. The following is a list of 
the counties within the Hudson Valley sorted by region.[27] The Lower and 
Mid Hudson Valley is typically considered part of the Downstate New York 
region due to its geographical and cultural proximity to New York City. 
Lower Hudson Mid-Hudson Upper Hudson/Capital District The Hudson Valley 
is served by Interstate 87 (the New York State Thruway), Interstate 95, 
Interstate 287, and Interstate 684. Parkways in the region include the 
Bronx River Parkway, the Cross County Parkway, the Hutchinson River Parkway, 
the Saw Mill River Parkway, the Sprain Brook Parkway, and the Taconic State 
Parkway. The Tappan Zee Bridge connects Tarrytown, New York in Westchester 
County to South Nyack in Rockland County across the Hudson River. A $4 
billion replacement bridge began construction in 2013.[28] The Bear Mountain 
Bridge crosses the Hudson River from Cortlandt in Westchester County to 
Bear Mountain State Park at the northern edge of Rockland County. The combination 
of these numerous highways, proximity to New York City, and the region's 
large population all lead to substantial traffic enforcement. Commuter 
rail service in the region is provided by Metro-North Railroad (operated 
by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority). Metro-North operates three 
lines in the region; west to east, they are the Hudson, the Harlem and 
the New Haven lines. These are former operations of the New York Central 
and the New York, New Haven and Hartford railroads, each of which stops 
in the Bronx between Westchester and Manhattan. Amtrak serves Croton-Harmon, 
New Rochelle, and Yonkers. There are proposals for a cross-county rail 
line to connect all three lines and provide easier access to Stamford, 
Connecticut. NY Waterway also operates a ferry service between Haverstraw 
in Rockland County and Ossining. Westchester County Airport is adjacent 
to White Plains. Franklin D. Roosevelt Mid-Hudson Bridge, connecting Poughkeepsie 
and Highland The pedestrian Walkway over the Hudson, also connecting Poughkeepsie 
and Highland Newburgh-Beacon Bridge Bear Mountain Bridge, connecting northern 
Westchester and Rockland counties The Tappan Zee Bridge, presently connecting 
southern Westchester and Rockland counties The Hudson Valley Renegades 
is a minor league baseball team affiliated with the Tampa Bay Rays. The 
team is a member of the New York–Penn League and plays at Dutchess Stadium 
in Fishkill. The Rockland Boulders of the independent Can-Am League play 
