Coordinates: 40°42′58″N 74°01′52″W﻿ / ﻿40.716°N 74.031°W﻿ / 40.716; -74.031 
The Hudson Waterfront, sometimes called the Gold Coast, is an urban area 
of northeastern New Jersey along the lower reaches of the Hudson River, 
the Upper New York Bay and the Kill van Kull. Though the term can specifically 
mean the shoreline, it often used to mean the contiguous urban area between 
the Bayonne Bridge and the George Washington Bridge that is approximately 
19 miles (31 km) long. Historically, the region has been known as Bergen 
Neck, the lower peninsula, and Bergen Hill, lower Hudson Palisades. The 
municipalities comprising the Hudson Waterfront are Bayonne, Jersey City, 
Hoboken, Union City, Weehawken, West New York, Guttenberg and North Bergen 
in Hudson County and Fairview, Cliffside Park, Edgewater and Fort Lee in 
Bergen County. To the east, lies the New York City boroughs of Manhattan 
and Brooklyn, to the south Staten Island, to the west Newark Bay and the 
New Jersey Meadowlands, and to the north Palisades Interstate Park. The 
Hudson River Waterfront Walkway, which includes sections of the East Coast 
Greenway, travels along the Hudson River. With a combined population of 
approximately 625,000, the Hudson Waterfront, if incorporated into a single 
city, would be the twenty-first most populous in the country with one of 
the smallest land areas of 35.7 square miles (92 km2). Its communities 
have some of the highest residential densities in the United States. Of 
municipalities in the United States over 50,000 people, Union City is the 
most densely populated.[1] Guttenberg, although one of the smallest municipalities, 
stretching from 68th Street to 71st Street at 128 acres (0.52 km2), is 
the most densely populated "town" in the country.[2] Many others are on 
the list of most densely populated places in the United States. The region 
is very ethnically diverse. Jersey City is the twenty-first most racially 
diverse city in the United States and the most racially diverse on the 
East Coast of the United States.[3] Six municipalities are on the list 
of the 100 cities (with a population over 5,000) with the highest percent 
of foreign-born residents: West New York (65.2%), Union City (58.7%), Palisades 
Park (57.0%) Guttenberg (48.7%), Fairview (48.4%) and Fort Lee (44.7%).[4] 
North Hudson has the second largest Cuban American population in the United 
States after Miami.[5] West New York, North Bergen, Union City, Guttenberg 
and Weehawken have Cuban American populations between 8.75% (Weehawken) 
and 19.64% (West New York).[6] Another large immigrant group is the Korean 
American community, near the GWB Plaza - and represents over half of the 
state's entire Korean population.[7][8] Nearby Palisades Park boasts the 
highest percentage (36.38%) and total number (6,065) of Koreans among all 
municipalities in the state,[9][10] while neighboring Fort Lee has the 
second largest cluster (5,978) and third highest proportion (17.18%) [10][11] 
Edgewater also has a significant Korean population.[10] The commercial 
districts Palisades Park and Fort Lee, Cliffside Park, Edgewater, Fairview — 
collectively create a Koreatown[12] Many in this community attend religious 
services at St Michaels in Union City. India Square in the Journal Square 
district is home to many from the country from which it takes its name.[13] 
A large Filipino community is located nearby at Five Corners. The first 
Coptic Orthodox Church in the United States, St. Mark is one of many congregations 
in Jersey City and Bayonne.[14] serving the growing Egyptian community.[15] 
In many communities iin the Hudson Waterfront English is not the first 
language spoken at home.[16] Rail service includes the Hoboken Terminal 
New Jersey Transit Hoboken Division: Main Line to Suffern (and in partnership 
with MTA/Metro-North, express service to Port Jervis), Bergen County Line, 
and Pascack Valley Line, all via Secaucus Junction (where transfer is possible 
to Northeast Corridor Line); Montclair-Boonton Line and Morris and Essex 
Lines (both via Newark Broad Street Station); North Jersey Coast Line (limited 
service as Waterfront Connection via Newark Penn Station to Long Branch 
and Bay Head); Raritan Valley Line (limited service via Newark Penn Station). 
The Hudson-Bergen Light Rail: serves Bayonne, Liberty State Park, Jersey 
City's West Side, Downtown Jersey City, Hoboken Terminal, along the foot 
of the Palisades in Hoboken and Weehawken waterfront, Bergenline and Tonnelle 
Avenues. The PATH provides 24-hour subway service from Hoboken Terminal 
(HOB) and Downtown Jersey City and Journal Square (JSQ) to Midtown Manhattan 
(33rd), the World Trade Center (WTC), and Newark Penn Station (NWK). NY 
Waterway provides ferry service, from Jersey City, Hoboken and Weehawken 
Port Imperial and Edgewater Landing to Battery Park City Ferry Terminal 
and Wall Street in lower Manhattan, and to West Midtown Ferry Terminal, 
where free transfer is available to a variety of "loop" buses. Cape Liberty 
Cruise Port, opened in 2004, restored passenger ships service to the waterfront. 
New Jersey Transit as well as private companies provide bus service. Journal 
Square, Exchange Place, Hoboken Terminal, and Bergenline (HBLR) Station 
are major origination, destination and transfer points. Manhattan-bound 
bus service to the Port Authority Bus Terminal and George Washington Bridge 
Bus Station Local (and some suburban) service is identified by single or 
double digits: 1, 2, 22, 23, 64, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87 and 88. 
Manhattan (with local stops) and some suburban service is identified by 
triple digits: 120, 121, 123, 125, 154, 156, 158, 159, 163, 165, 166, 168, 
181 and 188. Vehicle crossings and highways are the Bayonne Bridge to Staten 
Island; the Holland Tunnel into Lower Manhattan, Interstate 78, U.S. Route 
1/9; the Lincoln Tunnel to Midtown Manhattan, NJ 495, Route 3, and the 
George Washington Bridge to Upper Manhattan, Palisades Interstate Parkway, 
U.S. Route 46, Interstate 95, Interstate 80 Newark Liberty Airport (EWR) 
is the closest international airport in New Jersey with scheduled passenger 
service. LaGuardia Airport (LGA) is in Flushing, Queens and John F. Kennedy 
Airport (JFK) is on Jamaica Bay in Queens. Teterboro Airport, in the Hackensack 
Meadowlands, serves private and corporate planes. Before the 17th century 
the region was populated by the Hackensack and Tappan, phratries of the 
Lenni-Lenape, an Algonquian people, who maintained semi-permanent and seasonal 
campsites[17] throughout the diverse landscape. They are recalled throughout 
the region in countless places names. In 1609, Henry Hudson captained a 
sailing expedition for the Dutch West India Company which led to the establishment 
of the Dutch provincial colony of New Netherland, with its capital at New 
Amsterdam. During that exploration he laid anchor in the Upper New York 
Bay and Weehawken Coves. In 1630, land along the west bank of the river 
which bears his name was acquired and called Pavonia. Clusters of settlements 
were located at Communipaw, Harsimus, and Paulus Hook, and later at Hoboken, 
Pamrapo, Kewan/ Minkakwa, and Vriessendael. Some of the communities were 
compromised in conflicts with the indigenous population known as Kieft's 
War and the Peach Tree War. Director-General of New Netherland Peter Stuyvesant 
granted a charter in 1660 for a village at Bergen Square, considered the 
first autonoumous municipality in New Jersey. In 1664, four English frigates 
entered the Upper New York Bay, demanded, and peacefully received, control 
of Fort Amsterdam, and by extension, all of New Netherland.[18] Bergen, 
New Netherland thus became part of the Province of New Jersey. In 1668, 
a charter was granted for the "Towne and Corporation of Bergen".[19] In 
1683, East Jersey was divided into four counties, the waterfront region 
keeping the name given by the New Netherlanders. Bergen encompassed the 
land between the North River and Hackensack River from Bergen Point north 
to the ambiguous New York-New Jersey state line For much of the 18th century 
the villages remained essentially agricultural and fishing communities, 
supplying the growing city of New York across the river, using ferries 
including those at Communipaw, Paulus Hook, Weehawken, Bulls Ferry and 
Burdett's Landing. It was during the colonial period that Newark Plank 
Road, Hackensack Plank Road and Paterson Plank Road, thoroughfares from 
the waterfront across the Meadowlands, were laid, and the area of the English 
Neighborhood was settled. In the American Revolutionary War the New York 
Harbor was under British control after Washington ordered the retreat from 
Fort Lee, though he gave instructions to "go to the Bergen heights, Weehawk, 
Hoebuck or other heights to observe the motions of the enemy's shipping" 
and gather any other possible intelligence. The attack of British garrsion 
at Paulus Hook was seen as a victory for American forces. Urbanization 
of the area began in the early 19th century with City of Jersey and the 
development of Hoboken, Weehawken, and Edgewater as summer resorts. While 
some districts were laid out in urban grid, others developed more randomly 
following coach and ferry roads, or drives leading to larger estates or 
farms. Weehawken was the site for 18 known duels between 1700 and 1845, 
including that of the Burr-Hamilton duel in 1804.[20] In 1811, Colonol 
John Stevens' ship the Juliana, began operation as the first steam-powered 
ferry service was between Manhattan and Hoboken, which can claim to be 
the birthplace of baseball The first officially recorded game of baseball 
in US history took place in Elysian Fields in 1846.[21] During the latter 
half of the 19th and early part of the 20th centuries, the area experienced 
intense growth.[22] German immigration to the United States after 1848 
gave the parts of the region a distinctly German flavor,particularly Hoboken 
which became major port for the Hamburg America Line, and North Hudson 
with the development of breweries and the embroidery industry. Many railroad 
terminals and maritime facilities built there.[23] Many immigrants to the 
USA arrived, first via Castle Clinton and later via Ellis Island. The development 
of the ports resulted in intense shipping and industrial development along 
the shore, and residential development further inland. Blasting of the 
Palisades and landfilling along the water's edge considerably changed the 
landscape. Rail and trolley car lines were laid, some overland, while others 
traversed cuts or tunnels. Before the construction, in 1910, of the Pennsylvania 
Railroad's North River Tunnels under the Hudson, railroads terminated on 
the west bank of the river, requiring passengers and cargo to travel by 
ferry or barge to Manhattan. That year, the Hudson and Manhattan Railroad, 
forerunner of the PATH system, was opened as a partially successful attempt 
to connect all the rail stations (as well as those in Manhattan) with a 
mass transit system. The only remaining station in operation is Hoboken 
Terminal which serves as a terminus for many New Jersey Transit commuter 
trains. The restored Communipaw Terminal is a prominent waterfront landmark. 
Upon entry to World War I the US government took the Hamburg-American Line 
piers in Hoboken under eminent domain, and which became the major point 
of embarkation for more than three million soldiers, known as "doughboys". 
In 1916, an act of sabotage literally and figuratively shook the region 
when German agents set off bombs at the munitions depot in New York Bay 
at Black Tom.[24] The fore-runner of Port Authority of New York and New 
Jersey was established on April 30, 1921. Huge transportation projects 
opened between the wars: The Holland Tunnel in 1927, The Bayonne Bridge 
in 1931, and The Lincoln Tunnel in 1937, allowing vehicular travel between 
New Jersey and New York City to bypass the waterfront. Hackensack River 
crossings, notably the Pulaski Skyway, were also built. 125th Street Hudson 
River bridge never got beyond planning stages. In 1946, the baseball color 
line was first crossed at Roosevelt Stadium by Jackie Robinson. Among the 
many companies who had a presence along the waterfront were Colgate-Palmolive, 
Standard Oil, Port Johnston Coal Docks, Central Railroad of New Jersey, 
Lipton Tea, Maxwell House, Bethlehem Steel, Hamburg-American Line, Ford 
Motor Company, Lever Brothers, and Archer-Daniels-Midland[25] Military 
Ocean Terminal at Bayonne opened in during World War II. By the 1970s most 
traditional industries in the region had been abandoned and the waterfront 
has been being redeveloped for recreational, residential, and commercial 
use. After the closing of Palisades Amusement Park in 1971, large residential 
highrises were built to replace it.[26][27] Other highrise towers were 
constructed throughout the area which is still characterized by one and 
two family homes and low-rise apartment buildings.[28] Liberty State Park 
opened to coincide with the United States Bicentennial in 1776. Gentrification 
of Hoboken and Downtown Jersey City's 19th century districts began.[when?] 
NY Waterway restored ferry service across the Hudson in 1986. Begun in 
the 1980s.[29] Since the 1990s the Hudson Waterfront has experienced intensive 
development, consisting largely of high-density residential buildings, 
office towers, and retail centers. Some of this development is on brownfields 
that were once factories, warehouses, docks, and rail yards, particularly 
in areas along public transportation corridors. It has been called the 
Gold Coast,[30][31] a relatively new term coined by real estate agents, 
brokers, and developers in the 1980s, who realized the investment potential 
of the area. The name is infrequently used outside the context of real-estate 
sales and marketing. Other residential development is being constructed 
as single-family housing, multi-family apartments, and condominiums. Access 
to the Hudson–Bergen Light Rail has spurred much development. The yet unbuilt 
Northern Branch is planned for a route on the west side of the Palisades.[32] 
The Hudson River Waterfront Walkway has been constructed to provide contiguous 
public access to the water's edge with an 18.5-mile (29.8 km) pedestrian 
