Hugh Stuart Fullerton III (10 September 1873 – 27 December 1945) was an 
American sportswriter of the first half of the 20th century. He was one 
of the founders of the Baseball Writers' Association of America. He is 
best remembered for his role in uncovering the 1919 "Black Sox" Scandal. 
Studs Terkel played Fullerton in the film Eight Men Out. Fullerton was 
born in Ohio and attended the Ohio State University. Fullerton reportedly 
never graduated from Ohio State. He was kicked out for unknown reasons 
(he never explained to his family). He was later honored by the university 
for his writing. After starting in Cincinnati, he moved to Chicago to continue 
his career in journalism. Fullerton wrote in a colorful style, including 
slang and human interest elements for the first time in sports journalism. 
In fact, he is credited as the first writer to include quotes from players 
in sports coverage. Among his protégés were Ring Lardner and Grantland 
Rice. Fullerton, however, was also adept at the details of the game of 
baseball, and made strong use of the predictive power of baseball statistics. 
He made a name for himself in 1906 by predicting that the weak-hitting 
Chicago White Sox would upset the crosstown-rival Chicago Cubs in that 
year's World Series. The Cubs had won 116 games that season and were favored 
to win; the White Sox batted an anemic .230 and hit a total of seven home 
runs. The White Sox won the Series four games to two. Fullerton's prestige 
made him a powerful voice blowing the whistle on the Black Sox Scandal. 
Prior to the 1919 World Series between the White Sox and the Cincinnati 
Reds, Fullerton received a tip from professional gamblers that the Cincinnati 
team was a lock to win. The scene immortalized in the 1988 film Eight Men 
Out indicated that Fullerton (portrayed by Studs Terkel) watched the series 
with the legendary Ring Lardner (played by director John Sayles) and together 
they counted suspicious plays. In actuality, Fullerton did this with former 
pitching great Christy Mathewson. Fullerton's series of articles for the 
Chicago Herald-Examiner, headlined "Is Big League Baseball Being Run for 
Gamblers, with Ballplayers in the Deal?", forced the baseball establishment 
to investigate the charges. One year later, the eight White Sox ballplayers 
who participated in, or knew of, the plot to throw the series were banned 
from the game for life. Fullerton was also famous for writing stories about 
his hometown of Hillsboro, Ohio. Fullerton died on December 27, 1945 in 
Dunedin, Florida. He was posthumously awarded the J. G. Taylor Spink Award 
by the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1964. Hugh Fullerton IV (a.k.a. Hugh S. 
Fullerton Jr, 1904–1965) spent most of his professional career as an AP 
reporter and columnist. Hugh Fullerton V owned newspapers in Ohio and Michigan 
before teaching journalism in Michigan, Florida, Virginia, Bulgaria, and 
