Humacao (Spanish pronunciation: [umaˈka.o]) is a municipality in Puerto 
Rico located in the eastern coast of the island, north of Yabucoa; south 
of Naguabo; east of Las Piedras; and west of Vieques Passage. Humacao is 
spread over 10 wards and Humacao Pueblo (The downtown area and the administrative 
center of the city). It is part of the San Juan-Caguas-Guaynabo Metropolitan 
Statistical Area. The region of what is now Humacao belonged to the Taíno 
region of Jumaca, which covered a portion of the southeast coast of Puerto 
Rico.[2] The region was led by cacique Jumacao (also referred to as "Macao").[3] 
The Taíno settlement was located on the shores of what is called now the 
Humacao River. It is believed that the Taíno chief Jumacao was the first 
"cacique" to learn to read and write in Spanish, since he wrote a letter 
to the King of Spain Charles I complaining about how the Governor of the 
island wasn't complying with their peace agreement. In the letter, Jumacao 
argued that their people were virtually prisoners of Spain. It is said 
that King Charles was so moved by the letter that he ordered the Governor 
to obey the terms of the treaty.[4][5] During the early 16th Century, the 
region was populated by cattle ranchers. However, since most of them officially 
resided in San Juan, a settlement was never officially organized. At the 
beginning of the 18th Century, specifically around 1721–1722, the first 
official settlement was constituted in the area. Most of the residents 
at the time were immigrants from the Canary Islands, but due to attacks 
from Caribs, pirates, and other settlers, some of them moved farther into 
the island in what is now Las Piedras.[6] Still, some settlers remained 
and by 1776, historian Fray Íñigo Abbad y Lasierra visited the area and 
wrote about the population there. By 1793, the church was recognized as 
parish and the settlement was officially recognized as town.[4] By 1894, 
Humacao was recognized as a city. Due to its thriving population, buildings 
and structures like a hospital, a theater, and a prison were built in the 
city. In 1899, after the United States invasion of the island as a result 
of the Spanish–American War, the town of Las Piedras was annexed to Humacao. 
This lasted until 1914, when the Legislative Assembly of Puerto Rico voted 
on splitting both towns again.[6] Recently, Humacao has been led by mayor 
Marcelo Trujillo Panisse for more than a decade. A basketball star in his 
early years, Trujillo has pushed for the development of infrastructure 
facilities for sports and the fine arts in the city. On March, 2008, a 
new Roman Catholic diocese was established as the Fajardo-Humacao diocese. 
Its first bishop is Monsignor Eusebio 'Chebito' Ramos Morales, a maunabeño 
who was rector of the Humacao's main parish in the 1990s. Humacao is located 
in the southeast coast of Puerto Rico. It is bordered by the municipalities 
of Naguabo to the north, Yabucoa to the south, and Las Piedras to the west. 
The Atlantic Ocean borders the city in the east. Humacao is located in 
the region of the Eastern Coastal Plains, with most of its territory being 
flat. There are minor elevations to the southwest, like Candelero Hill, 
and northwest, like Mabú. Humacao's territory covers 45 square miles (117 km2).[4] 
Two islands belong to Humacao: Cayo Santiago and Cayo Batata. Humacao's 
hydrographic system consists of many rivers and creeks like Humacao, Antón 
Ruíz, and Candelero. Some of its creeks are Frontera, Mariana, and Del 
Obispo, among many others.[4] Humacao is divided into thirteen barrios 
or wards: Due to its location on the coast and relative short distance 
from the capital, Humacao is a frequent stop for tourists. One of the most 
notable tourist mainstays is the Palmas del Mar resort, which is the island's 
largest resort. This megaresort is composed of over 3,000 acres (12 km2) 
of land and occupies the entire south eastern portion of the municipal 
territory. The resort contains over 20 tennis courts, two world-class golf 
courses, beaches, several restaurants and a riding center. Aside of the 
beaches in Palmas del Mar resort, Humacao has several other popular beaches. 
Among the most popular ones are Punta Santiago, Buena Vista, Punta Candelero, 
and El Morrillo.[6] Other landmarks from Humacao are the Astronomical Observatory 
in the University of Puerto Rico at Humacao,[7] Casa Roig, the Guzmán Ermit, 
the Wildlife Refuge, and the Church Dulce Nombre de Jesús. The Fiesta patronal 
dedicated to the Immaculate Conception is held at the beginning of December. 
It has lost most of its religious content to become a popular festival 
with live music, food, drinks and verbenas. The Breadfruit Festival (Festival 
de la Pana) is celebrated during the first weekend of September. It is 
organized by the Mariana's Recreational and Cultural Association (ARECMA), 
a community organization of the Barrio Mariana. Its main theme is about 
the preparation of dishes whose main ingredient is breadfruit. Typical 
Puerto Rican music, crafts and foods as well as other cultural and sports 
activities can also be enjoyed. Most years it has been held at one of the 
highest places of the sector with a spectacular view to Humacao, Las Piedras, 
Naguabo, Vieques and Yabucoa. The Grises basketball team (Humacao Grays), 
founded in 2005, belongs to Puerto Rico's National Superior Basketball 
league. In 2010, they changed their name to the Caciques de Humacao. They 
play on the new Emilio E. Huyke Coliseum. The Grises is also a Double A 
class amateur baseball team that has won one championship (1951) and four 
time runners-up in (1950, 1960, 1965 and 1967). Like all municipalities 
in Puerto Rico, Humacao is administered by a mayor. The current mayor is 
Marcelo Trujillo, from the Popular Democratic Party (PPD). Trujillo was 
elected at the 2000 general election. The city belongs to the Puerto Rico 
Senatorial district VII, which is represented by two Senators. In 2012, 
Jorge Suárez and José Luis Dalmau were elected as District Senators.[8] 
Humacao has three secondary care hospitals HIMA-San Pablo Humacao, Dr. 
Domínguez (Clínica Oriente), and Ryder Memorial Hospital. It consists of 
three horizontal stripes: gold that stands for Chief Jumacao's crown, red 
that symbolizes the Coat of Arms and the green that represents the arrows 
used by the Taínos. The coat of arms consists of two colors, gold and green. 
The gold represents the sun, Humacao is located in the island were the 
sun rises. Green symbolizes the native Indian heritage as well as the natural 
tropical valley where the city is located. The shield itself represents 
Humacao's native and Indian name origin. Humacao's airport is no longer 
used for daily flights to Vieques and Culebra as it was in the past. It 
is now used for private flights. Humacao is served by two freeways and 
one tolled expressway, therefore is one of a few cities in Puerto Rico 
with good access. Puerto Rico Highway 30, Autopista Cruz Ortiz Stella, 
serves as the main highway coming from the west (Caguas, Las Piedras), 
while Puerto Rico Highway 53 serves from the north (Fajardo, Naguabo) and 
south (Yabucoa). Puerto Rico Highway 60, the Carretera Dionisio Casillas, 
is a short freeway located entirely in Humacao, and has exits serving downtown 
Humacao and Anton Ruiz. Puerto Rico Highway 3, the main highway bordering 
the east coastline of Puerto Rico from San Juan, passes through Humacao 
and has its only alt route in the town, known locally as the Bulevar del 
Rio (River Boulevard) where it has access to the main judiciary center 
of the city, as well as a future theatre that is being built, the Centro 
de Bellas Artes de Humacao (Humacao Fine Arts Center). The alt route allows 
people to pass by the downtown area, as PR-3 enters into the downtown and 
business center of the town. Puerto Rico Highway 908 is another important 
highway, which begins at PR-3 and intersects PR-30 and has access to the 
University of Puerto Rico at Humacao, as well as some main schools. Humacao, 
together with San Juan and Salinas, is one of three municipalities in Puerto 
Rico that has controlled-access highways leaving its boundaries in all 
directions (in this case north to Naguabo and south to Yabucoa via PR-53 
and west to Las Piedras via PR-30) There are various excellent elementary 
and high school facilities, three of which were recognized by the Middle 
States Association of Secondary Schools and each has their own National 
Honor Society chapters. The University of Puerto Rico at Humacao, formerly 
the CUH, educates over 4,000 students and is well known for its sciences, 
producing many of the island's most skilled microbiologists, marine biologists, 
wildlife biologists and chemists at the undergraduate level. It also manages 
an astronomical observatory where many tourists and locals come visit and 
view the stars and planets and the Museo Casa Roig where arts expositions 
