A humidor is any kind of box or room with constant humidity that is used 
to store cigars, cigarettes, or pipe tobacco. For private use, small wooden 
boxes holding a few dozen cigars are common, while cigar shops may have 
walk-in humidors. Humidors can be used to maintain consistent humidity 
level for other goods; the Colorado Rockies Major League Baseball team 
stores game balls in a large humidor at their home stadium, Coors Field, 
to counteract the effects of Denver's low humidity. Many humidors use hygrometers 
to monitor their humidity levels. Walk-in Most common in cigar bars or 
stores. One room is built as or converted to a humidor where all the cigars 
are stored. Cabinet Usually placed on the floor as a piece of furniture. 
Typically holds 1000-5000 cigars. Personal A small humidor kept in a convenient 
location in home or office for personal storage, special events, or aesthetics, 
usually holding 20-75 cigars. Also known as a "desktop humidor".[citation 
needed] Travel Portable, usually holding 2 to 10 cigars. Commercially made 
humidor cases are typically made of wood, although other materials, like 
acrylic glass and metal, are not uncommon. Carbon fibre, silicon carbide, 
and polyethylene have also been used. Disregarding aesthetic qualities, 
the casing's purpose is to protect the interior and create a closed environment, 
so any durable and airtight material can be used. The interior is typically 
a veneer of Spanish-cedar, which possesses the following desirable characteristics 
for cigar storage: Humidors are typically commercially produced, though 
most walk-ins are custom built and some humidors are homemade.[2] They 
range considerably in material, size and complexity. Capacity is determined 
by deducting the space required for the humidification element and some 
extra room between the element and the cigars. It can also be calculated 
online for the most popular cigar formats.[3] A humidor needs to be seasoned 
when new or having been out of use for a while.[4] Wood in an unseasoned 
humidor will absorb moisture from within, drying stored cigars out. The 
preferred technique for bringing the wood close to an optimal relative 
humidity level where it will buffer moisture is placing a small container 
of distilled water inside the humidor for 1 to 3 days. All humidors contain 
a permanent humidifying system which keeps the air moist, which in turn 
keeps the cigars moist. The ideal relative humidity in a humidor is around 
68-72%.[5] Though it can vary slightly depending on the cigar smoker's 
preferences, it should never go higher than 75%[citation needed] due to 
the possibility of hatching tobacco beetles. The more empty space, the 
more readily the humidity level of the box will fluctuate. Most humidifying 
elements are passive, releasing stored humidity through evaporation and 
diffusion. The use of a 50/50 solution of propylene glycol and distilled 
water is recommended for replenishing the passive humidifying element, 
as it has a buffering effect on air humidity, maintaining it at approximately 
70%. Retailers and manufacturers claim propylene glycol also has mild antifungal 
and antibacterial properties; distilled water should always be used, due 
to its lack of minerals, additives, or bacteria. Electronic humidifiers 
are also available, although usually reserved for very large humidors. 
A sensor measures the outside humidity and then activates a ventilator, 
which blows air over a humid sponge or water tank into the humidor. Once 
the preset humidity level has been reached the ventilator stops. This way 
electronic humidifiers can maintain a much more stable humidity level than 
passive humidifiers. Also they typically will activate an alarm to notify 
when the moisture supply needs refilling, to prevent humidity drops. The 
accuracy of electronic humidifiers depends primarily on the integrated 
type of sensor; the capacitive type are preferred. Silica gel beads, familiar 
for removing moisture from packaging containers, are a third alternative. 
These are "calibrated" with a coating of mineral salts to absorb or release 
humidity in various RH ranges (including 65%, 68%, 70%, and 72%), providing 
a buffering effect on relative humidity. They require only distilled water 
when necessary, and can be ruined by propylene glycol. A humidor should 
never be exposed to direct sunlight.[6] To discourage eggs of tobacco beetles 
from hatching and prevent cigar rot, its internal temperature should be 
kept below 25ʡC (77ʡF)[citation needed], as well as below 75%[citation 
needed] relative humidity. At temperatures below 12ʡC (54ʡF), the desired 
ageing process of the cigars is impaired, making storage in wine cellars 
