Hyōgo Prefecture (兵庫県, Hyōgo-ken?) is a prefecture of Japan located in 
the Kansai region on Honshu island.[1] The capital is Kobe.[2] Present-day 
Hyōgo Prefecture includes the former provinces of Harima, Tajima, Awaji, 
and parts of Tamba and Settsu.[3] In 1180, near the end of the Heian Period, 
Emperor Antoku, Taira no Kiyomori, and the Imperial court moved briefly 
to Fukuhara, in what is now the city of Kobe. There the capital remained 
for five months. Himeji Castle, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, is in the 
city of Himeji. Southern Hyōgo Prefecture was severely devastated by the 
6.9 Mw Great Hanshin earthquake of 1995, which destroyed major parts of 
Kobe and Awaji, as well as Takarazuka and neighboring Osaka Prefecture, 
killing nearly 6,500 people. Hyōgo has coastlines on two seas: to the north, 
the Sea of Japan, to the south, the Seto Inland Sea. On Awaji Island, Hyōgo 
borders the Pacific Ocean coastline in the Kii Channel. The northern portion 
is sparsely populated, except for the city of Toyooka, and the central 
highlands are only populated by tiny villages. Most of Hyōgo's population 
lives on the southern coast, which is part of the Osaka-Kobe-Kyoto metropolitan 
area. Awaji is an island that separates the Inland Sea and Osaka Bay, lying 
between Honshu and Shikoku. Summertime weather throughout Hyōgo is hot 
and humid. As for winter conditions in Hyōgo, the north of Hyōgo tends 
to receive abundant snow, whilst the south receives only the occasional 
flurry. Hyōgo borders on Osaka Prefecture, Kyoto Prefecture, Tottori Prefecture 
and Okayama Prefecture. As of March 31, 2008, 20% of the total land area 
of the prefecture was designated as Natural Parks, namely the Sanin Kaigan 
and Setonaikai National Parks; Hyōnosen-Ushiroyama-Nagisan Quasi-National 
Park; and Asago Gunzan, Harima Chūbu Kyūryō, Inagawa Keikoku, Izushi-Itoi, 
Kasagatayama-Sengamine, Kiyomizu-Tōjōko-Tachikui, Onzui-Chikusa, Seiban 
Kyūryō, Seppiko-Mineyama, Tajima Sangaku, and Taki Renzan Prefectural Natural 
Parks.[4] Twenty-nine cities are located in Hyōgo Prefecture: These are 
the towns in each district: Two major artificial islands are located Hyōgo 
Prefecture: Hyōnosen-Ushiroyama-Nagisan Quasi-National Park (Mt. Hyonosen 
view from Yabu) Hyōnosen-Ushiroyama-Nagisan Quasi-National Park (Torokawataira 
in Kami) Sanin Kaigan National Park (Takeno Beach in Toyooka) Sanin Kaigan 
National Park (Tajima-mihonoura of Sanin Coast in Shinonsen) The city of 
Akō and the only town in Akō District (Kamigōri), were scheduled to merge 
and the city would still retain the name Akō. Akō District would be defunct 
if the merger was successful.[5] However, the merger hasn't taken place. 
Hyōgo Prefecture has many heavy industries, metal and medical, and Kobe 
Port is one of the largest ports in Japan. Hyōgo is a part of the Hanshin 
Industrial Region. There are two research institute of Riken, natural sciences 
research institute in Japan, in Kobe and Harima. It has "SPring-8",a synchrotron 
radiation facility in Harima. Jōdo-ji in Ono Ichijo-ji in Kasai Kakurin-ji 
in Kakogawa Kitano-chō Yamamoto-dōri Izushi Sasayama Hyōgo Prefectural 
Museum of Art in Kobe. Kobe City Museum in Kobe. Himeji City Museum of 
Art in Himeji. Asago Art Village in Asago There are 163 public and 52 private 
high schools within Hyogo prefecture. Of the public high schools, some 
are administered by the Hyogo prefectural government, whilst the others 
are administered by local municipalities. The sports teams listed below 
are based in Hyōgo. Football (soccer) Baseball Volleyball Rugby Basketball 
A popular troupe of Takarazuka Revue plays in Takarazuka. The north of 
Hyogo Prefecture has sightseeing spots such as Kinosaki Onsen, Izushi, 
and Yumura Onsen, and the matsuba crab, and Tajima beef are both national 
delicacies.[6] million-dollar view, Kobe Harborland - Meriken Park area 
in Kobe Awaji Yumebutai in Awaji Kuchiganaya in Asago Kinosaki Onsen Yumura 
Onsen Tonomine highland in Kamikawa Toyooka Stork Park In 1981, a sister 
state agreement was drawn up between Hyogo and the state of Western Australia 
in Australia.[7] To commemorate the 10th anniversary of this agreement 
in 1992, the Hyogo Prefectural Government Cultural Centre was established 
in Perth.[8] Coordinates: 34°41′26.94″N 135°10′59.08″E﻿ / ﻿34.6908167°N 
