"I'm Shipping Up to Boston" is a song with lyrics written by the folk singer 
Woody Guthrie and music written and performed by the Celtic punk band Dropkick 
Murphys. It appeared on their 2005 album, The Warrior's Code. An earlier 
recording of it can be found on the Hellcat Records compilation Give 'Em 
the Boot: Vol. 4. The song gained world-wide attention along with boosting 
the band's popularity for its use in the 2006 Academy Award-winning Best 
Picture, The Departed and the soundtrack for the film. The single is the 
band's most successful to date and was certified platinum. It reached #1 
on the Bubbling Under Hot 100 chart and sold over 1,044,000 digital copies 
without ever entering the Hot 100 chart.[1] The video features the Dropkick 
Murphys performing the song on the waterfront in East Boston. The band 
is also seen "hanging out" with hooligans while being chased by Boston 
police officers. The song's simple lyrics describe a sailor who had lost 
a leg climbing the topsail, and is shipping up to Boston to "find my wooden 
leg." A small Facebook meme grew up after Wisconsin State Representative 
and Speaker of the Wisconsin State Assembly Jeff Fitzgerald reportedly 
used the song during the 2012 Wisconsin Republican Convention in Green 
Bay. This usage prompted the band to release the following statement on 
Facebook:[5] We just got word that Wisconsin State Rep and Speaker of the 
State Assembly Jeff Fitzgerald used "Shipping Up to Boston" as his walk-on 
song yesterday at the Wisconsin GOP Convention in Green Bay. The stupidity 
and irony of this is laughable. A Wisconsin Republican U.S. Senate candidate 
– and crony of anti-Union Governor Scott Walker – using a Dropkick Murphys 
song as an intro is like a white supremacist coming out to gangsta rap! 
Fitzgerald: if you and your staff can't even figure out your music you 
might wanna give up on the politics!!!!! We stand beside our Union and 
Labor brothers and sisters and their families in Wisconsin and all over 
the U.S! In 2015, Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker used the song during 
political events.[6] In response, the official Dropkick Murphy's Twitter 
account posted a tweet declaring that the band "literally hate[d]" Governor 
