In baseball, the rules state that a batted ball is considered in flight 
when it has not yet touched any object other than a fielder or his equipment. 
Once a batted ball touches the ground, a fence or wall, a foul pole, a 
base, the pitcher's rubber, an umpire, or a baserunner, it is no longer 
in flight. A batted ball that passes entirely out of the playing field 
ceases to be in flight when that occurs. A special rule exists in covered 
baseball facilities (retractable or fixed roofed), where a batted ball 
striking the roof, roof supporting structure, or objects suspended from 
the roof (e.g., speakers) while in fair territory is still considered to 
be in flight. Rules for batted balls striking any of those objects in foul 
territory differ between ballparks, with most considering such a ball to 
still be in flight, and some considering it to be a foul ball and dead 
from the time it strikes. If a batted ball (other than a foul tip) is caught 
in flight, the batter is out—called a fly out—and all runners must tag 
up. A batted ball cannot be ruled foul or fair while in flight; a batted 
ball that is past first or third base will be called foul or fair based 
on where it ceases to be in flight, or where it is first touched by a fielder, 
whichever occurs first. A fly out on a ball in foul territory is also called 
a foul out.[1] A foul tip, which by definition is always caught in flight, 
is a strike by special rule, and not an out. If a batted ball passes out 
of the playing field in flight and is fair, it is an automatic home run, 
entitling the batter and all runners to score without liability to be put 
out. However, if the fence or other barrier is less than 250 feet from 
home plate, a ball hit past that fence in flight and fair shall be ruled 
an automatic double. In the United States, such short fences are very rare 
even in the lowest-level amateur ballfields. Fields with short fences can 
be commonplace in some countries where baseball is less popular; often, 
soccer fields have to be used, resulting in a very short left or right 
field. The shortest fair fences in Major League Baseball are both in Boston's 
Fenway Park; the shortest fence that is nearly perpendicular to the foul 
line is the Green Monster. The left foul pole, renamed "Fisk's Pole" in 
honor of Carlton Fisk's famous home run in the 1975 World Series, stands 
310 feet away from home plate. The right field foul pole, known as Pesky's 
Pole, is 302 feet down the right field line, although the wall there is 
nearly parallel to the foul line as it curves back to the distant right 
field wall at 380 feet. From 1958 through 1961, the Los Angeles Dodgers 
played home games in Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, a stadium built for 
track and field; without the ability to move any of the permanent stadium 
structure, the Dodgers configured the field to result in a 251-foot left 
