Incheon (Hangul: 인천; hanja: 仁川; Korean pronunciation: [intɕʰʌn]; formerly 
romanized as Inchon; literally "kind river"), officially the Incheon Metropolitan 
City, is a city located in northwestern South Korea, bordering Seoul and 
Gyeonggi to the east. Inhabited since the New Stone Age, Incheon was home 
to just 4,700 people when it became an international port in 1883. Today, 
about 3 million people live in the city, making it Korea’s third most populous 
city after Seoul and Busan. The city's growth has been assured in modern 
times with the development of its port due to its natural advantages as 
a coastal city and its proximity to the South Korean capital. It is part 
of the Seoul Capital Area, along with Seoul itself and Gyeonggi Province, 
forming the world's second largest metropolitan area by population. Incheon 
has since led the economic development of Korea by opening its port to 
the outside world, ushering in the modernization of Korea as a center of 
industrialization. In 2003, the city was designated as Korea’s first free 
economic zone. Since then, large local companies and global enterprises 
have increasingly invested in the Incheon Free Economic Zone, including 
Samsung which chose Songdo International City as its new investment destination 
for its bio industry. As an international city, Incheon has held numerous 
large scale international conferences, such as the Incheon Global Fair 
& Festival in 2009. The 17th Asian Games Incheon 2014 was also held in 
Incheon on September 19, 2014. Incheon has established itself as a major 
transportation hub in northeast Asia with the world-renowned Incheon International 
Airport and Incheon Port. The city is also home to the Green Climate Fund, 
an international organization addressing environmental issues. The first 
historical record of the Incheon area dates back to 475 AD, during the 
reign of King Jangsu of Goguryeo, by the name of Michuhol, which is supposed 
to be located on today's Munhak Hill (문학산). The area underwent several 
name changes with successive kingdoms and dynasties. In Goryeo era, Incheon 
was called Gyeongwon (경원) or Inju (인주). The current name was first established 
in 1413. Later, Incheon County became Incheon Metropolitan Prefecture (dohobu, 
도호부). Old Incheon consisted of today's southern Incheon (i.e. Jung-gu, 
Dong-gu, Nam-gu, Yeonsu-gu, and Namdong-gu) and northern part of Siheung 
City. The city centre was Gwangyo-dong, where the prefecture office (도호부청사) 
and the local academy (hyanggyo, 향교) were located. The "original" two remaining 
buildings of the Incheon prefecture office are located in Munhak Elementary 
School, while the newly built (in 2001) prefecture office buildings are 
right across from Munhak Baseball Stadium. Another historical name of the 
city, Jemulpo (alternatively Romanized as Chemulpo), was not widely used 
until the opening of the port in 1883.[2][3] After the opening of the Incheon 
port, the city centre moved from Gwangyo to Jemulpo. Today, either Jemulpo 
or Gwangyo-dong is considered "Deep Incheon"(원인천). It was renamed as Jinsen 
during Japanese rule in Korean peninsula. In 1914, the Japanese colonial 
government merged outer parts of old Incheon (including the former centre 
of Gwangyo) with Bupyeong County, forming Bucheon County. Through 1936 
and 1940, some part of Bucheon County was recombined into Incheon City, 
by which some part of "old" Bupyeong was annexed into Incheon. Incheon 
was originally part of Gyeonggi Province, but was granted Directly Governed 
(now Metropolitan) City status on July 1, 1981; the city officially separated 
from the province. In 1989, neighbouring islands and Gyeyang township of 
Gimpo County[4] were ceded to Incheon and in 1995 Geomdan township of Gimpo 
Country and two counties of Ganghwa and Onjin were annexed to Incheon Metropolitan 
City. Incheon was known as Inchon prior to South Korea's adoption of a 
new Romanization system in 2000. The city was the site of the Battle of 
Chemulpo Bay, where the first shots of the Russo-Japanese War were fired. 
During the Korean War, Incheon was occupied by North Korean troops on 4 
September 1950. Eleven days later, Incheon was the site of the Battle of 
Inchon, when United States troops landed to relieve pressure on the Pusan 
Perimeter and to launch a United Nations offensive northward. The result 
was a decisive UN victory and it was recaptured on 19 September 1950.[5] 
The USS Inchon was named after the tide-turning battle that ensued. Incheon 
has also hosted a series of major international events. The Global Fair 
& Festival 2009 Incheon, Korea was held in the Songdo District in August 
2009. It was open from August 7 to October 25 for a period of 80 days. 
It was a comprehensive international event with global institutions and 
corporations as participants.Various musicians and artists performed during 
the event. The city hosted a meeting of the G20 Finance Ministers in February 
2010.[6] Incheon was the site of the third Global Model United Nations 
Conference, held from 10th to the 14th of August 2011. It first hosted 
the Incheon Women Artists' Biennale in 2004 which expanded into welcoming 
international artists in its subsequent 2007, 2009[7] and 2011. Incheon 
hosted the Asian Games in 2014. On February 27, 2007, Incheon declared 
itself an "English City," and inaugurated the "Incheon Free English Zone" 
program. The goal of the program is to make Incheon as much an English 
speaking city as Hong Kong and Singapore are.[8] This is for the ultimate 
purpose of establishing Incheon as a commercial and business hub of northeast 
Asia (see Free Economic Zone below). The official slogan of the program 
is "Smile with English." Incheon is home to a number of colleges and universities: 
International schools: Incheon has a humid continental climate (Köppen 
climate classification Dwa). Incheon's climate is about average compared 
to the rest of Korea, with 8 locations being cooler and 10 locations being 
warmer, and with 9 locations being wetter and 9 locations being drier.[10] 
Incheon experiences each of its four seasons, distinctly feeling the rise 
and fall of temperature and humidity. The temperature however, never rises 
to an extreme, and the climate of the city is essentially mild. Incheon 
is swept by the seasonal winds as the northwesterly winds strike the city 
in the winter and the summer in Incheon is affected by gusts of the warm 
southwesterly winds.[11] Incheon forms the heart of Capital Industrial 
Region. During the industrialization of South Korea, several industrial 
complexes were built throughout the city, and as a result, the city was 
largely dependent on manufacturing industry. But with the designation of 
Incheon Free Economic Zone in 2003, the city is now making an effort to 
foster new growth industries. Major industrial parks include Bupyeong industrial 
complex, which hosts GM Incheon plant(formerly a GM Daewoo Incheon plant), 
Juan industrial complex, and Namdong Industrial complex. In recent years, 
bio industry is emerging as a new growth industry of the city. Currently, 
with the total production capacity of 330kℓ per year, the city ranks 2nd 
in the world by production capacity along with San Francisco, United States. 
The capacity is under expansion, and after completion in 2018, the city 
will rank 1st with the production capacity of 510kℓ.[13] Also, logistics 
industry is also experiencing a rapid growth, thanks to Incheon Airport, 
which was ranked fourth in the world by cargo traffic, and the expansion 
of Incheon Port. Incheon is a major domestic and international transport 
hub for Korea. Incheon International Airport is South Korea's primary international 
airport and a regional air hub. It was in 2015 the world's 22nd busiest 
airport by passenger traffic, with 49,412,750 passengers.[14] There were 
a total of 305,446 flights (300,634 international, 4,812 domestic) to and 
from Incheon International Airport in 2015, an average of 837 flights (824 
international, 13 domestic) daily. 50.9% of the flights were serviced by 
Korea’s two main carriers, Korean Air and Asiana Airlines, with low-cost 
and foreign carriers servicing the remaining 49.1%.[15] The airport is 
experiencing a rapid increase in passengers, and the opening of the 2nd 
terminal in December 2017 should spur additional traffic. Also featured 
in the Korean drama series, "Air City." Incheon's sea port is the second 
largest port in Korea after Busan's sea port. The International Passenger 
Terminal located at the port offers ferries to five cities in China: Dalian, 
Qingdao, Tianjin, Dandong, and Weihai. There are also ferries to Incheon's 
outlying islands as well as Baengnyeong Island inside of the Northern Limit 
Line. Incheon Bus Terminal, located at its eponymous subway stop, offers 
express bus transportation to all parts of Korea. Many city bus lines offer 
transportation within city limits as well as to the neighboring cities 
of Bucheon, Gimpo, Seoul, and Siheung. Many BRT lines offer transportation 
between Seoul and Incheon. Local service to Guro, Seoul, Cheongnyangni, 
Uijeongbu and Soyosan is offered by Seoul's subway Line 1. The line has 
11 stations within Incheon and connects to the Incheon Subway at Bupyeong 
station. Rapid service on the same line to Yongsan Station in Seoul depart 
from Dongincheon station and stops at major stations. The Airport Express 
(AREX) line runs from Incheon International Airport to Seoul Station via 
Gimpo International Airport. The Incheon-Gimpo section was opened in March 
2007 and was extended to Seoul station in December 2010. Passengers can 
choose a high-speed service stopping only at Incheon airport and Seoul, 
which takes 43 minutes but departs only every half-hour; or the all-station 
service which takes 53 minutes but leaves every six minutes. KTX service 
was introduced on the AREX line on June 30th 2014, with stops at Incheon 
International Airport Station and Geoman Station. There are additional 
plans to use the newly built Suin Line to bring KTX service to Incheon 
Station by 2021[16] The Incheon Subway has two subway lines serving the 
city. The first line connects to the Seoul Metropolitan Subway system at 
Bupyeong Station (Seoul Subway Line 1), and AREX line at Gyeyang Station. 
It connects International Business District Station in Songdo to Gyeyang 
Station. The line has 28 stations on 29.4 kilometres (18.3 miles) of track. 
The line also has transfer stations with the Suin Line at Woninjae Station, 
with the Incheon Subway Line 2 at Incheon City Hall Station, and with Seoul 
Subway Line 7 at Bupyeong-gu Office Station. Incheon Subway Line 2 opened 
in July 2016 and runs from Geomdan Oryu Station to Unyeon Station. The 
automated line is 29.2 kilometres (18.1 miles) long, and has 27 stations, 
including transfer stations at Geomam Station with the AREX line, Juan 
Station with Seoul Subway Line 1 and Incheon Subway Line 2 at Incheon City 
Hall Station. The Incheon subway is operated by the Incheon Rapid Transit 
Corporation (IRTC). There are additional plans for a third subway line 
in Incheon Korail has also constructed a new commuter rail line named Suin 
Line. The line opened in 2012 from Oido Station in Siheung to Songdo Station 
in Incheon. It was then extended in 2016, and now reaches Incheon Station 
where passengers can transfer to Seoul Subway Line 1. In 2017, the line 
will be extended from Oido Station to Suwon Station. SMRT (one of three 
operating companies of Seoul Metropolitan Subway) has extended Seoul Metropolitan 
Subway Line 7 to Bupyeong-gu office by 2011 and provided transfers to the 
Incheon Subway system. It has 3 stations within Incheon. By 2020, he line 
will further be extended westwards to Seongnam Station where it will be 
possible to transfer to Incheon Subway Line 2 The Incheon Free Economic 
Zone consists of the three regions of Songdo, Cheongna, and the island 
of Yeongjong, and has a total area of 51,739 acres (20,938 ha). The goal 
of IFEZ is to transform these three areas into hubs for logistics, international 
business, leisure, and tourism for the Northeast Asian region. The term 
'Free Economic Zone' applies to the development in these three areas with 
the aim of improving the business environment for foreign-invested enterprises 
and the living conditions for foreigners. The zone is a specially designated 
area to create the most favorable business and living environment where 
foreign nationals can live and invest freely and conveniently. Incheon's 
Free Economic Zone, the first in Korea, was officially designated by the 
Korean government in August 2003. IFEZ is planned to be a self-contained 
living and business district featuring air and sea transportation, a logistics 
complex, an international business center, financial services, residences, 
schools and hospitals, and shopping and entertainment centres. Songdo International 
City began development in 1994 and is being built on reclaimed land. It 
is designated to become a center of diverse international businesses, a 
hub for international trade, an area for knowledge-based technologies, 
and a place for eco-friendly urban living. Construction is due to be completed 
in 2020. As of 2012[update], Yeongjong International City’s 34,183 acres 
(13,833 ha) centering on the Incheon International Airport is being developed 
as an eco-friendly airport city scheduled to be completed by 2020. Paradise 
Co, a South Korean casino operator, said in October 2013 that it will build 
the country’s largest casino on Yeongjong Island.[17] The Cheongna district, 
on the mainland adjacent Yeongjong Island, will focus on entertainment 
and will feature a world class theme park. It will also be a residential 
area with sports facilities, a floriculture complex, and a business area 
specially designed for international finance. Incheon is divided into 8 
districts (gu) and 2 counties (gun). Religion in Incheon (2005)[18] According 
to the census of 2005, of the people of Incheon 36.1% follow Christianity 
(22.4% Protestantism and 13.7% Catholicism) and 13.8% follow Buddhism.[18] 
50.1% of the population is mostly not religious or follow Muism and other 
indigenous religions. Incheon is home to the following professional and 
semi professional sports teams: Association football: The K League Classic 
team Incheon United FC. The Incheon team was known to have a popular rivalry 
against former Bucheon SK (now Jeju United), due to the teams' close geographical 
relationship. The WK-League team is named Hyundai Steel Red Angels. Baseball: 
The KBO League team SK Wyverns. The first Incheon-based pro-baseball team 
was Sammi (one of the major steel companies in the 1980s) Superstars. Basketball: 
The KBL team Incheon Electroland Elephants. WKBL team is Incheon Shinhan 
Bank S-Birds Ice hockey: The Daemyung Killer Whales of Asia League Ice 
Hockey play out of Incheon's Seon Hak International Ice Rink. Volleyball: 
The V-League teams are Incheon Korean Air Jumbos and Incheon Heungkuk Life 
Pink Spiders. Munhak Sports Complex: The Munahk Sports Complex houses both 
a football stadium and a baseball stadium. The football stadium was Incheon's 
venue for the 2002 Football World Cup, and is also the home venue for Incheon 
United. The baseball stadium is the home venue for the SK Wyverns. On April 
19, 2007, Incheon was selected as the host city for the 2014 Asian Games, 
beating out New Delhi.[19] Yeonhui Cricket Ground: Yeonhui Cricket Ground 
is a newly built cricket stadium in Incheon. The 2014 Asian Games will 
feature cricket for both the men's and the women's event and this ground 
will be used for the scheduled cricket matches to be played in the games. 
It has been reported that the crowd capacity of this ground will be 2,353. 
This first cricket stadium in South Korea. Incheon Football Stadium (Sungui 
Arena): Incheon Football Stadium is the first football-only stadium in 
Incheon. It was built in 2012 with a capacity for 20,891 spectators. A 
number of Korea's western islands, including Ganghwa Island, Yeongjong 
Island, and Baengnyeong Island are also administered by Incheon. Baengnyeong 
Island is South Korea's westernmost point. Monument to 100 years of friendship 
between Korea and the USA in Jayu Park The statue of MacArthur at Jayu 
Park A walkway in Jayu Park The only official Chinatown in South Korea 
Port of Incheon Incheon Bridge The tiny island of Jakyakdo Incheon is twinned 
