An independent baseball league is a professional baseball organization 
located in the United States and Canada that is not operated in conjunction 
with either a Major League Baseball team or an affiliated Minor League 
Baseball team. Being independent allows teams to be located close to major 
league teams without their consent. Such leagues have been around for many 
years and were once known as "outlaw leagues" due to their position outside 
the rules of affiliated minor league baseball. The Northern League and 
Frontier League both started play in 1993, and the Northern League's success 
paved the way for other independent leagues like the Texas-Louisiana League 
and Northeast League. The Atlantic League has had more marquee players 
than any other independent league, including Jose Canseco, Rickey Henderson, 
Ozzie Canseco, Rubén Sierra, Carlos Baerga, and John Rocker. The Northern 
League alumni include Leon "Bull" Durham, J. D. Drew, and Darryl Strawberry. 
Independent leagues have flourished in northeastern states, where dense 
populations can often support multiple franchises. Because they are not 
subject to the territorial limitations imposed on affiliated minor-league 
teams, independent clubs can relocate as close to affiliated teams (and 
one another) as they choose to. For example, the city of Lancaster, Pennsylvania 
cannot have an affiliated team because of its proximity to the Harrisburg 
Senators and Reading Fightin Phils, leaving the Atlantic League to place 
a team—the Lancaster Barnstormers—to fill the void. Another example is 
the greater New York City metropolitan area, where there are many independent 
teams: the Bridgeport Bluefish, Long Island Ducks, New Jersey Jackals, 
Rockland Boulders, Somerset Patriots, and Sussex County Miners. The Kansas 
City area is home not only to the American League's Kansas City Royals, 
but also the independent Kansas City T-Bones. The St. Paul Saints share 
a market with the American League's Minnesota Twins; both teams have frequently 
worked together to promote baseball in the Upper Midwest. A new independent 
league, the Southwest League of Professional Baseball, was announced in 
February 2016 and will begin play in April 2018.[1][2] The league will 
initially consist of six Texas-based teams, with plans to expand into Oklahoma, 
