The Indianapolis Clowns were a professional baseball team in the Negro 
American League. Tracing their origins back to the 1930s, the Clowns were 
the last of the Negro League teams to disband, continuing to play exhibition 
games into the 1980s. They began play as the independent Ethiopian Clowns, 
joined the Negro American League as the Cincinnati Clowns and, after a 
couple of years, relocated to Indianapolis. Hank Aaron was a Clown for 
a short period, and the Clowns were also one of the first professional 
baseball teams to hire a female player. Before becoming the Ethiopian Clowns, 
there is evidence indicating that the team was formed in Miami, Florida, 
in 1935 or 1936 by Hunter Campbell and bootlegger Johnny Pierce,[1] and 
was known as the Miami Giants. Soon enough the team became an independent 
barnstorming club, changing its name to the Ethiopian Clowns. Syd Pollock 
was instrumental in promoting and popularizing the Clowns and developed 
them into a nationally-known combination of show business and baseball 
that earned them the designation as the Harlem Globetrotters of baseball.[citation 
needed] In 1943, the team was relocated to Cincinnati, where they became 
the Cincinnati Clowns. That same year they joined the Negro American League, 
beginning a 12-year membership in the circuit before withdrawing following 
the 1954 season. The team operated between Cincinnati and Indianapolis 
in 1944 and 1945 before officially moving to Indianapolis in 1946, playing 
as the Indianapolis Clowns for the rest of their existence. The team won 
the league championship in 1950. While still fielding a legitimate team, 
the Clowns also toured with several members known for comic acts — sort 
of a baseball version of the Harlem Globetrotters, including Joe "Prince" 
Henry. As the Negro Leagues declined in the late 1940s after the integration 
of Major League Baseball, the Clowns continued operations on barnstorming 
tours into the 1960s. By 1966 the Indianapolis Clowns were the last Negro 
league team still playing. The Clowns continued to play exhibition games 
into the 1980s, but as a humorous sideshow rather than a competitive sport. 
After many years of operation as a barnstorming team, the Clowns finally 
disbanded in 1989.[2] By 1952, Syd Pollock signed Hank Aaron to his first 
professional contract, at $200 a month. Aaron played about three months 
as the Clowns' shortstop and cleanup hitter before being sold for $10,000 
to the Boston Braves organization. The Clowns fielded such stars as Buster 
Haywood, DeWitt "Woody" Smallwood, showman "Goose" Tatum, and future Major 
Leaguers John Wyatt (Kansas City Athletics), Paul Casanova (Washington 
Senators), and Choo-Choo Coleman (New York Mets). The Clowns were the first 
professional baseball team to hire a female player to a long-term contract 
that was not voided soon after. Toni Stone played second base with the 
team in 1953, in which she batted .243. [3] The following year the Clowns 
sold her contract to the Kansas City Monarchs. They hired two women replacements: 
Mamie "Peanut" Johnson, pitcher, and Connie Morgan, second base. Women 
also served as umpires for the team. The 1976 movie The Bingo Long Traveling 
All-Stars & Motor Kings, starring James Earl Jones, Billy Dee Williams, 
and Richard Pryor, is loosely based on the barnstorming of the Indianapolis 
