Indiana i/ɪndiˈænə/ is a U.S. state located in the midwestern and Great 
Lakes regions of North America. Indiana is the 38th largest by area and 
the 16th most populous of the 50 United States. Its capital and largest 
city is Indianapolis. Indiana was admitted to the United States as the 
19th U.S. state on December 11, 1816. Before becoming a territory, varying 
cultures of indigenous peoples and historic Native Americans inhabited 
Indiana for thousands of years. Since its founding as a territory, settlement 
patterns in Indiana have reflected regional cultural segmentation present 
in the Eastern United States; the state's northernmost tier was settled 
primarily by people from New England and New York, Central Indiana by migrants 
from the Mid-Atlantic states and from adjacent Ohio, and Southern Indiana 
by settlers from the Southern states, particularly Kentucky and Tennessee.[7] 
Indiana has a diverse economy with a gross state product of $298 billion 
in 2012.[8] Indiana has several metropolitan areas with populations greater 
than 100,000 and a number of smaller industrial cities and towns. Indiana 
is home to several major sports teams and athletic events including the 
NFL's Indianapolis Colts, the NBA's Indiana Pacers, the WNBA's Indiana 
Fever, the Indianapolis 500, and Brickyard 400 motorsports races. The state's 
name means "Land of the Indians", or simply "Indian Land".[9] It also stems 
from Indiana's territorial history. On May 7, 1800, the United States Congress 
passed legislation to divide the Northwest Territory into two areas and 
named the western section the Indiana Territory. In 1816, when Congress 
passed an Enabling Act to begin the process of establishing statehood for 
Indiana, a part of this territorial land became the geographic area for 
the new state.[10][11][12] A resident of Indiana is known as a Hoosier. 
The etymology of this word is disputed, but the leading theory, as advanced 
by the Indiana Historical Bureau and the Indiana Historical Society, has 
"Hoosier" originating from Virginia, the Carolinas, and Tennessee (a part 
of the Upland South region of the United States) as a term for a backwoodsman, 
a rough countryman, or a country bumpkin.[13][14] The first inhabitants 
in what is now Indiana were the Paleo-Indians, who arrived about 8000 BC 
after the melting of the glaciers at the end of the Ice Age. Divided into 
small groups, the Paleo-Indians were nomads who hunted large game such 
as mastodons. They created stone tools made out of chert by chipping, knapping 
and flaking.[15] The Archaic period, which began between 5000 and 4000 
BC, covered the next phase of indigenous culture. The people developed 
new tools as well as techniques to cook food, an important step in civilization. 
Such new tools included different types of spear points and knives, with 
various forms of notches. They made ground-stone tools such as stone axes, 
woodworking tools and grinding stones. During the latter part of the period, 
they built earthwork mounds and middens, which showed that settlements 
were becoming more permanent. The Archaic period ended at about 1500 BC, 
although some Archaic people lived until 700 BC.[15] Afterward, the Woodland 
period took place in Indiana, where various new cultural attributes appeared. 
During this period, the people created ceramics and pottery, and extended 
their cultivation of plants. An early Woodland period group named the Adena 
people had elegant burial rituals, featuring log tombs beneath earth mounds. 
In the middle portion of the Woodland period, the Hopewell people began 
developing long-range trade of goods. Nearing the end of the stage, the 
people developed highly productive cultivation and adaptation of agriculture, 
growing such crops as corn and squash. The Woodland period ended around 
1000 AD.[15] The Mississippian culture emerged, lasting from 1000 until 
the 15th century, shortly before the arrival of Europeans. During this 
stage, the people created large urban settlements designed according to 
their cosmology, with large mounds and plazas defining ceremonial and public 
spaces. The concentrated settlements depended on the agricultural surpluses. 
One such complex was the Angel Mounds. They had large public areas such 
as plazas and platform mounds, where leaders lived or conducted rituals. 
Mississippian civilization collapsed in Indiana during the mid-15th century 
for reasons that remain unclear.[15] The historic Native American tribes 
in the area at the time of European encounter spoke different languages 
of the Algonquian family. They included the Shawnee, Miami, and Illini. 
Later they were joined by refugee tribes from eastern regions including 
the Delaware who settled in the White and Whitewater River Valleys. In 
1679 the French explorer René-Robert Cavelier, Sieur de La Salle was the 
first European to cross into Indiana after reaching present-day South Bend 
at the Saint Joseph River.[16] He returned the following year to learn 
about the region. French-Canadian fur traders soon arrived, bringing blankets, 
jewelry, tools, whiskey and weapons to trade for skins with the Native 
Americans. By 1702, Sieur Juchereau established the first trading post 
near Vincennes. In 1715 Sieur de Vincennes built Fort Miami at Kekionga, 
now Fort Wayne. In 1717, another Canadian, Picote de Beletre, built Fort 
Ouiatenon on the Wabash River, to try to control Native American trade 
routes from Lake Erie to the Mississippi River. In 1732 Sieur de Vincennes 
built a second fur trading post at Vincennes. French Canadian settlers, 
who had left the earlier post because of hostilities, returned in larger 
numbers. In a period of a few years, British colonists arrived from the 
East and contended against the Canadians for control of the lucrative fur 
trade. Fighting between the French and British colonists occurred throughout 
the 1750s as a result. The Native American tribes of Indiana sided with 
the French Canadians during the French and Indian War (also known as the 
Seven Years' War). With British victory in 1763, the French were forced 
to cede all their lands in North America east of the Mississippi River 
and north and west of the colonies to the British crown. The tribes in 
Indiana did not give up; they destroyed Fort Ouiatenon and Fort Miami during 
Pontiac's Rebellion. The British royal proclamation of 1763 designated 
the land west of the Appalachians for Indian use, and excluded British 
colonists from the area, which the Crown called Indian Territory. In 1775 
the American Revolutionary War began as the colonists sought more self-government 
and independence from the British. The majority of the fighting took place 
near the East Coast, but the Patriot military officer George Rogers Clark 
called for an army to help fight the British in the west.[17] Clark's army 
won significant battles and took over Vincennes and Fort Sackville on February 
25, 1779.[18] During the war, Clark managed to cut off British troops, 
who were attacking the eastern colonists from the west. His success is 
often credited for changing the course of the American Revolutionary War.[19] 
At the end of the war, through the Treaty of Paris, the British crown ceded 
their claims to the land south of the Great Lakes to the newly formed United 
States, including American Indian lands. In 1787 the US defined present-day 
Indiana as part of its Northwest Territory. In 1800 Congress separated 
Ohio from the Northwest Territory, designating the rest of the land as 
the Indiana Territory.[20] President Thomas Jefferson chose William Henry 
Harrison as the governor of the territory and Vincennes was established 
as the capital.[21] After Michigan Territory was separated and the Illinois 
Territory was formed, Indiana was reduced to its current size and geography.[20] 
Starting with the Battle of Fallen Timbers in 1794 and Treaty of Greenville, 
1795, Indian titles to Indiana lands were extinguished by usurpation, purchase, 
or war and treaty. About half the state was acquired in the St. Mary's 
Purchase from the Miami in 1818. Purchases weren't complete until the Treaty 
of Mississinwas in 1826 acquired the last of the reserved Indian lands 
in the northeast. A portrait of the Indiana frontier about 1810: The frontier 
was defined by the treaty of Fort Wayne in 1809, adding much of southwestern 
lands around Vincinnes and southeastern lands adjacent to Cincinnati, to 
areas along the Ohio River as part of U.S. territory. Settlements were 
military outposts, Fort Ouiatenon in the northwest and Fort Miami (later 
Fort Wayne) in the northeast, Fort Knox and Vincinnes settlement on the 
lower Wabash, Clarksville (across from Louisville), Vevay, and Corydon 
along the Ohio River, the Quaker Colony in Richmond on the eastern border, 
and Conner's Post (later Connersville) on the east central frontier. Indianapolis 
wouldn't be a populated place for 15 more years, and central and northern 
Indiana Territory remained savage wilderness. Indian presence was waning, 
but still a threat to settlement. Only two counties, Clark and Dearborn 
in the extreme southeast, had been organized. Land titles issued out of 
Cincinnati were sparse. Migration was chiefly by flatboat on the Ohio River 
westerly, and wagon trails up the Wabash/White River Valleys (west) and 
Whitewater River Valleys (east). In 1810 the Shawnee chief Tecumseh and 
his brother Tenskwatawa encouraged other tribes in the territory to resist 
European settlement. Tensions rose and the US authorized Harrison to launch 
a preemptive expedition against Tecumseh's Confederacy; the US gained victory 
at the Battle of Tippecanoe on November 7, 1811. Tecumseh was killed in 
1813 during the Battle of Thames. After his death, armed resistance to 
United States control ended in the region. Most Native American tribes 
in the state were later removed to west of the Mississippi River in the 
1820s and 1830s after US negotiations and purchase of their lands.[22] 
In order to decrease the threat of Indian raids following the Battle of 
Tippecanoe, Corydon, a town in the far southern part of Indiana, was named 
the second capital of the Indiana Territory in May 1813.[20] Two years 
later, a petition for statehood was approved by the territorial general 
assembly and sent to Congress. An Enabling Act was passed to provide an 
election of delegates to write a constitution for Indiana. On June 10, 
1816, delegates assembled at Corydon to write the constitution, which was 
completed in 19 days. President James Madison approved Indiana's admission 
into the union as the nineteenth state on December 11, 1816.[18] In 1825, 
the state capital was moved from Corydon to Indianapolis.[20] Many European 
immigrants went west to settle in Indiana in the early 19th century. The 
largest immigrant group to settle in Indiana were Germans, as well as numerous 
immigrants from Ireland and England. Americans who were primarily ethnically 
English migrated from the Northern Tier of New York and New England, as 
well as the mid-Atlantic state of Pennsylvania.[23][24] The arrival of 
steamboats on the Ohio River in 1811, and the National Road at Richmond 
in 1829 greatly facilitated settlement of northern and western Indiana. 
Following statehood, the new government worked to transform Indiana from 
a frontier into a developed, well-populated, and thriving state, beginning 
significant demographic and economic changes. The state's founders initiated 
a program, Indiana Mammoth Internal Improvement Act, that led to the construction 
of roads, canals, railroads and state-funded public schools. The plans 
bankrupted the state and were a financial disaster, but increased land 
and produce value more than fourfold.[25] In response to the crisis and 
in order to avert another, in 1851, a second constitution was adopted. 
Among its provisions were a prohibition on public debt and extension of 
suffrage to African-Americans. During the American Civil War, Indiana became 
politically influential and played an important role in the affairs of 
the nation. As the first western state to mobilize for the United States 
in the war, Indiana had soldiers participating in all of the major engagements. 
The state provided 126 infantry regiments, 26 batteries of artillery and 
13 regiments of cavalry to the cause of the Union.[26] In 1861 Indiana 
was assigned a quota of 7,500 men to join the Union Army.[27] So many volunteered 
in the first call that thousands had to be turned away. Before the war 
ended, Indiana contributed 208,367 men to fight and serve in the war. Casualties 
were over 35% among these men: 24,416 lost their lives in the conflict 
and over 50,000 more were wounded.[28] The only Civil War battle fought 
in Indiana was the Battle of Corydon, which occurred during Morgan's Raid. 
The battle left 15 dead, 40 wounded, and 355 captured.[29] Indiana remained 
a largely agricultural state; post-war industries included food processing, 
such as milling grain, distilling it into alcohol, and meatpacking; building 
of wagons, buggies, farm machinery, and hardware. With the onset of the 
industrial revolution, Indiana industry began to grow at an accelerated 
rate across the northern part of the state. With industrialization, workers 
developed labor unions and suffrage movements arose in relation to the 
progress of women.[30] The Indiana Gas Boom led to rapid industrialization 
during the late 19th century by providing cheap fuel to the region.[31] 
In the early 20th century, Indiana developed into a strong manufacturing 
state with ties to the new auto industry.[23] Haynes-Apperson, the nation's 
first commercially successful auto company, operated in Kokomo until 1925. 
The construction of the Indianapolis Motor Speedway and the start of auto-related 
industries were also related to the auto industry boom.[32] During the 
1930s, Indiana, like the rest of the nation, was affected by the Great 
Depression. The economic downturn had a wide-ranging negative impact on 
Indiana, such as the decline of urbanization. The Dust Bowl further to 
the west resulted in many migrants fleeing into the more industrialized 
Midwest. Governor Paul V. McNutt's administration struggled to build a 
state-funded welfare system to help the overwhelmed private charities. 
During his administration, spending and taxes were both cut drastically 
in response to the Depression, and the state government was completely 
reorganized. McNutt ended Prohibition in the state and enacted the state's 
first income tax. On several occasions, he declared martial law to put 
an end to worker strikes.[33] World War II helped lift the economy in Indiana, 
as the war required steel, food and other goods that were produced in the 
state.[34] Roughly 10 percent of Indiana's population joined the armed 
forces, while hundreds of industries earned war production contracts and 
began making war material.[35] Indiana manufactured 4.5 percent of total 
United States military armaments produced during World War II, ranking 
eighth among the 48 states.[36] The expansion of industry to meet war demands 
helped end the Great Depression.[34] With the conclusion of World War II, 
Indiana rebounded to levels of production before the Great Depression. 
Industry became the primary employer, a trend that continued into the 1960s. 
Urbanization during the 1950s and 1960s led to substantial growth in the 
state's cities. The auto, steel and pharmaceutical industries topped Indiana's 
major businesses. Indiana's population continued to grow during the years 
after the war, exceeding five million by the 1970 census.[37] In the 1960s 
the administration of Matthew E. Welsh adopted its first sales tax of two 
percent.[38] Indiana schools were desegregated in 1949. In 1950, the Census 
Bureau reported Indiana's population as 95.5% white and 4.4% black.[39] 
Governor Welsh also worked with the General Assembly to pass the Indiana 
Civil Rights Bill, granting equal protection to minorities in seeking employment.[40] 
Beginning in 1970, a series of amendments to the state constitution were 
proposed. With adoption, the Indiana Court of Appeals was created and the 
procedure of appointing justices on the courts was adjusted.[41] The 1973 
oil crisis created a recession that hurt the automotive industry in Indiana. 
Companies such as Delco Electronics and Delphi began a long series of downsizing 
that contributed to high unemployment rates in manufacturing in Anderson, 
Muncie, and Kokomo. The restructuring and deindustrialization trend continued 
until the 1980s, when the national and state economy began to diversify 
and recover.[42] With a total area (land and water) of 36,418 square miles 
(94,320 km2), Indiana ranks as the 38th largest state in size.[43] The 
state has a maximum dimension north to south of 250 miles (400 km) and 
a maximum east to west dimension of 145 miles (233 km).[44] The state's 
geographic center (39° 53.7'N, 86° 16.0W) is in Marion County.[45] Located 
in the midwestern United States, Indiana is one of eight states that make 
up the Great Lakes Region.[46] Indiana is bordered on the north by Michigan, 
on the east by Ohio, and on the west by Illinois,[47] while Lake Michigan 
borders Indiana on the northwest and the Ohio River separates Indiana from 
Kentucky on the south.[45][48] The average altitude of Indiana is about 
760 feet (230 m) above sea level.[49] The highest point in the state is 
Hoosier Hill in Wayne County at 1,257 feet (383 m) above sea level.[43][50] 
The lowest point at 320 feet (98 m) above sea level is located in Posey 
County, where the Wabash River flows into the Ohio River.[43][45] Only 
2,850 square miles (7,400 km2) have an altitude greater than 1,000 feet 
(300 m) and this area is enclosed within 14 counties. About 4,700 square 
miles (12,000 km2) have an elevation of less than 500 feet (150 m), mostly 
concentrated along the Ohio and lower Wabash Valleys, concentrated from 
Tell City and Terre Haute to Evansville and Mount Vernon.[51] The state 
includes two natural regions of the United States, the Central Lowlands 
and the Interior Low Plateaus.[52] The till plains make up the northern 
and central allotment of Indiana. Much of its appearance is a result of 
elements left behind by glaciers. Central Indiana is mainly flat with some 
low rolling hills (except where rivers cut deep valleys through the plain, 
like at the Wabash River and Sugar Creek) and soil composed of glacial 
sands, gravel and clay, which results in exceptional farmland.[47] Northern 
Indiana is also very similar except for the presence of higher and hillier 
terminal moraines and many kettle lakes in some regions. In northwest Indiana 
there are various sand ridges and dunes, some reaching nearly 200 feet 
in height. These are located along the Lake Michigan shoreline and also 
inland to the Kankakee River Valley. The unglaciated southern segment of 
the state carries a different and off-balance surface, characterized in 
places by profound valleys and rugged, hilly terrain much different from 
the rest of the state. Here, bedrock is exposed at the surface and isn't 
buried in glacial till like further north. Because of the prevalent limestone, 
there are numerous caves in the area. The soil is fertile in the valleys 
of southern Indiana. Major river systems in Indiana include the Whitewater, 
White, Blue, Wabash, St. Joseph, and Maumee rivers.[53] According to the 
Indiana Department of Natural Resources, in 2007 there were 65 rivers, 
streams, and creeks of environmental interest or scenic beauty, which included 
only a portion of an estimated 24,000 total river miles within the state.[54] 
The Ohio River forms Indiana's southern border with Kentucky. The major 
cities of New Albany and Evansville are located on the river. The Wabash 
River, which is the longest free-flowing river east of the Mississippi 
River, is the official river of Indiana.[55][56] At 475 miles (764 km) 
in length, the river bisects the state from northeast to southwest before 
flowing south, mostly along the Indiana-Illinois border. The river has 
been the subject of several songs, such as On the Banks of the Wabash, 
The Wabash Cannonball and Back Home Again, In Indiana.[57][58] There are 
about 900 lakes listed by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.[59] 
To the northwest, Indiana borders Lake Michigan, where the Port of Indiana 
operates the state's largest shipping port. Tippecanoe Lake, the deepest 
lake in the state, reaches depths at nearly 120 feet (37 m), while Lake 
Wawasee is the largest natural lake in Indiana.[60] At 10,750 acres (summer 
pool level), Lake Monroe is the largest lake in Indiana. Indiana has a 
humid continental climate, with cold winters and warm, wet summers.[61] 
The extreme southern portion of the state is within the humid subtropical 
climate area and receives more precipitation than other parts of Indiana.[47] 
Temperatures generally diverge from the north and south sections of the 
state. In the middle of the winter, average high/low temperatures range 
from around 30 °F/15 °F (−1 °C/-10 °C) in the far north to 39 °F/22 °F 
(4 °C/-6 °C) in the far south.[62] In the middle of summer there is generally 
a little less variation across the state, as average high/low temperatures 
range from around 84 °F/64 °F (29 °C/18 °C) in the far north to 90 °F/69 °F 
(32 °C/21 °C) in the far south.[62] The record high temperature for the 
state was 116 °F (47 °C) set on July 14, 1936 at Collegeville. The record 
low was −36 °F (−38 °C) on January 19, 1994 at New Whiteland. The growing 
season typically spans from 155 days in the north to 185 days in the south.[citation 
needed] While droughts occasionally occur in the state, rainfall totals 
are distributed relatively equally throughout the year. Precipitation totals 
range from 35 inches (89 cm) near Lake Michigan in northwest Indiana to 
45 inches (110 cm) along the Ohio River in the south, while the state's 
average is 40 inches (100 cm). Annual snowfall in Indiana varies widely 
across the state, ranging from 80 inches (200 cm) in the northwest along 
Lake Michigan to 14 inches (36 cm) in the far south. Lake effect snow accounts 
for roughly half of the snowfall in northwest and north central Indiana 
due to the effects of the moisture and relative warmth of Lake Michigan 
upwind. The mean wind speed is 8 miles per hour (13 km/h).[63] In a 2012 
report, Indiana was ranked eighth in a list of the top 20 tornado-prone 
states based on National Weather Service data from 1950 through 2011.[64] 
A 2011 report ranked South Bend 15th among the top 20 tornado-prone cities 
in the United States,[65] while another report from 2011 ranked Indianapolis 
eighth.[66][67][68] Despite its vulnerability, Indiana is not a part of 
tornado alley.[69] Indiana is one of thirteen U.S. states that are divided 
into more than one time zone. Indiana's time zones have fluctuated over 
the past century. At present most of the state observes Eastern Time; six 
counties near Chicago and six near Evansville observe Central Time. Debate 
continues on the matter. Before 2006, most of Indiana did not observe daylight 
saving time (DST). Some counties within this area, particularly Floyd, 
Clark, and Harrison counties near Louisville, Kentucky, and Ohio and Dearborn 
counties near Cincinnati, Ohio, unofficially observed DST by local custom. 
Since April 2006 the entire state observes DST. Indiana is divided into 
92 counties. As of 2010, the state includes 16 metropolitan and 25 micropolitan 
statistical areas, 117 incorporated cities, 450 towns, and several other 
smaller divisions and statistical areas.[72][73] Marion County and Indianapolis 
have a consolidated city-county government.[72] Indianapolis is the capital 
of Indiana and its largest city.[72][74] Indiana's four largest metropolitan 
areas are Indianapolis, Fort Wayne, Evansville, and South Bend.[75] The 
table below lists the ten largest municipalities in the state based on 
the 2014 United States Census Estimate.[76] The United States Census Bureau 
estimates that the population of Indiana was 6,619,680 on July 1, 2015, 
a 2.10% increase since the 2010 United States Census.[4] The state's population 
density was 181.0 persons per square mile, the 16th highest in the United 
States.[72] As of the 2010 U.S. Census, Indiana's population center is 
located northwest of Sheridan, in Hamilton County (+40.149246, -086.259514).[72][78][79] 
In 2005, 77.7% of Indiana residents lived in metropolitan counties, 16.5% 
lived in micropolitan counties and 5.9% lived in non-core counties.[80] 
The racial makeup of the state (based on the 2011 population estimate) 
was: Hispanic or Latino of any race made up 6.2% of the population.[81] 
The Hispanic population is Indiana's fastest-growing ethnic minority.[82] 
28.2% of Indiana's children under the age of 1 belonged to minority groups 
(note: children born to white hispanics are counted as minority group).[83] 
Based on population estimates for 2011, 6.6% of the state's population 
is under the age of five, 24.5% is under the age of 18, and 13.2% is 65 
years of age or older.[81] From the 2010 U.S. Census demographic data for 
Indiana, the median age is 37.0 years.[87] German is the largest ancestry 
reported in Indiana, with 22.7% of the population reporting that ancestry 
in the Census. Persons citing American (12.0%) and English ancestry (8.9%) 
are also numerous, as are Irish (10.8%) and Polish (3.0%).[88] Most of 
those citing American ancestry are actually of English descent, but have 
family that has been in North America for so long, in many cases since 
the early colonial era, that they identify simply as American.[89][90][91][92] 
In the 1980 census 1,776,144 people claimed German ancestry, 1,356,135 
claimed English ancestry and 1,017,944 claimed Irish ancestry out of a 
total population of 4,241,975 making the state 42% German, 32% English 
and 24% Irish.[93] Population growth since 1990 has been concentrated in 
the counties surrounding Indianapolis, with four of the top five fastest-growing 
counties in that area: Hamilton, Hendricks, Johnson, and Hancock. The other 
county is Dearborn County, which is near Cincinnati, Ohio. Hamilton County 
has also been the fastest-growing county in the area consisting of Indiana 
and its bordering states of Illinois, Michigan, Ohio and Kentucky, and 
is the 20th fastest-growing county in the country.[94] With a population 
of 829,817, Indianapolis is the largest city in Indiana and 12th largest 
in the United States, according to the 2010 Census. Three other cities 
in Indiana have a population greater than 100,000: Fort Wayne (253,617), 
Evansville (117,429) and South Bend (101,168).[95] Since 2000, Fishers 
has seen the largest population rise amongst the state's 20 largest cities 
with an increase of 100 percent.[96] Hammond and Gary have seen the largest 
population declines regarding the top 20 largest cities since 2000, with 
a decrease of 6.8 and 21.0 percent respectively.[96] Other cities that 
have seen extensive growth since 2000 are Noblesville (39.4 percent), Greenwood 
(81 percent), Carmel (21.4 percent) and Lawrence (9.3 percent). Meanwhile, 
Evansville (−4.2 percent), Anderson (−4 percent) and Muncie (−3.9 percent) 
are cities that have seen the steepest decline in population in the state.[97] 
Indianapolis has largest population of the state's metropolitan areas and 
33rd largest in the country.[98] The Indianapolis metropolitan area encompasses 
Marion County and nine surrounding counties in central Indiana. As of the 
2010 U.S. Census, Indiana's median household income was $44,616, ranking 
it 36th among the United States and the District of Columbia.[100] In 2005, 
the median household income for Indiana residents was $43,993. Nearly 498,700 Indiana 
households had incomes from $50,000 to $74,999, accounting for 20% of all 
households.[101] Hamilton County's median household income is nearly $35,000 higher 
than the Indiana average. At $78,932, it ranks seventh in the country among 
counties with less than 250,000 people. The next highest median incomes 
in Indiana are also found in the Indianapolis suburbs; Hendricks County 
has a median of $57,538, followed by Johnson County at $56,251.[101] Although 
the largest single religious denomination in the state is Catholic (747,706 members), 
most of the population are members of various Protestant denominations. 
The largest Protestant denomination by number of adherents in 2010 was 
the United Methodist Church with 355,043.[103] A study by the Graduate 
Center found that 20 percent are Roman Catholic, 14 percent belong to different 
Baptist churches, 10 percent are other Christians, nine percent are Methodist, 
and six percent are Lutheran. The study found that 16% of Indiana is affiliated 
with no religion.[104] Indiana is home to the St. Meinrad Archabbey, one 
of two Catholic archabbeys in the United States and one of 11 in the world. 
The Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod has one of its two seminaries in Fort 
Wayne. Two conservative denominations, the Free Methodist Church and the 
Wesleyan Church, have their headquarters in Indianapolis as does the Christian 
Church.[105][106] The Fellowship of Grace Brethren Churches maintains offices 
and publishing work in Winona Lake.[107] Huntington serves as the home 
to the Church of the United Brethren in Christ.[108] Anderson is home to 
the headquarters of the Church of God.[109] The headquarters of the Missionary 
Church is located in Fort Wayne.[110] The Friends United Meeting of the 
Religious Society of Friends, the largest branch of American Quakerism, 
is based in Richmond,[111] which also houses the oldest Quaker seminary 
in the United States, the Earlham School of Religion.[112] The Islamic 
Society of North America is headquartered in Plainfield.[113] Spanish is 
the second-most-spoken language in Indiana, after English [1]. Indiana 
has a constitutional democratic republican form of government with three 
branches: the executive, including an elected governor and lieutenant governor; 
the legislative, consisting of an elected two-house General Assembly; and 
the judicial, the Supreme Court of Indiana, the Indiana Court of Appeals 
and circuit courts. The Governor of Indiana serves as the chief executive 
of the state and has the authority to manage the government as established 
in the Constitution of Indiana. The governor and the lieutenant governor 
are jointly elected to four-year terms, with gubernatorial elections running 
concurrent with United States presidential elections (1996, 2000, 2004, 
2008, etc.).[114] The governor may not serve more than two consecutive 
terms.[114] The governor works with the Indiana General Assembly and the 
Supreme Court of Indiana to govern the state and has the authority to adjust 
the other branches. Special sessions of the General Assembly can be called 
upon by the governor as well as have the power to select and remove leaders 
of nearly all state departments, boards and commissions. Other notable 
powers include calling out the Indiana Guard Reserve or the Indiana National 
Guard in times of emergency or disaster, issuing pardons or commuting the 
sentence of any criminal offenders except in cases of treason or impeachment 
and possessing an abundant amount of statutory authority.[114][115][116] 
The lieutenant governor serves as the President of the Senate and is responsible 
for ensuring that the senate rules are acted in accordance with by its 
constituents. The lieutenant governor can only vote to break ties. If the 
governor dies in office, becomes permanently incapacitated, resigns or 
is impeached, the lieutenant governor becomes governor. If both the governor 
and lieutenant governor positions are unoccupied, the Senate President 
pro tempore becomes governor.[117] The Indiana General Assembly is composed 
of a 50-member Senate and 100-member House of Representatives. The Senate 
is the upper house of the General Assembly and the House of Representatives 
is the lower house.[114] The General Assembly has exclusive legislative 
authority within the state government. Both the Senate and House of Representatives 
can introduce legislation, with the exception that the Senate is not authorized 
to initiate legislation that will affect revenue. Bills are debated and 
passed separately in each house, but must be passed by both houses before 
they can be submitted to the Governor.[118] The legislature can nullify 
a veto from the governor with a majority vote of full membership in the 
Senate and House of Representatives.[114] Each law passed by the General 
Assembly must be used without exception to the entire state. The General 
Assembly has no authority to create legislation that targets only a particular 
community.[118][119] The General Assembly can manage the state's judiciary 
system by arranging the size of the courts and the bounds of their districts. 
It also can oversee the activities of the executive branch of the state 
government, has restricted power to regulate the county governments within 
the state, and has exclusive power to initiate the method to alter the 
Indiana Constitution.[118][120] The Indiana Supreme Court is made up of 
five judges with a Court of Appeals composed of 15 judges. The governor 
selects judges for the supreme and appeal courts from a group of applicants 
chosen by a special commission. After serving for two years, the judges 
must acquire the support of the electorate to serve for a 10-year term.[114] 
In nearly all cases, the Supreme Court does not have original jurisdiction 
and can only hear cases that are petitioned to the court following being 
heard in lower courts. Local circuit courts are where the majority of cases 
begin with a trial and the consequence decided by the jury. The Supreme 
Court does have original and sole jurisdiction in certain specific areas 
including the practice of law, discipline or disbarment of Judges appointed 
to the lower state courts, and supervision over the exercise of jurisdiction 
by the other lower courts of the State.[121][122] The state is divided 
into 92 counties, which are led by a board of county commissioners. 90 
counties in Indiana have their own circuit court with a judge elected for 
a six-year term. The remaining two counties, Dearborn and Ohio, are combined 
into one circuit. Many counties operate superior courts in addition to 
the circuit court. In densely populated counties where the caseload is 
traditionally greater, separate courts have been established to solely 
hear either juvenile, criminal, probate or small claims cases. The establishment, 
frequency and jurisdiction of these additional courts varies greatly from 
county to county. There are 85 city and town courts in Indiana municipalities, 
created by local ordinance, typically handling minor offenses and not considered 
courts of record. County officials that are elected to four-year terms 
include an auditor, recorder, treasurer, sheriff, coroner and clerk of 
the circuit court. All incorporated cities in Indiana have a mayor and 
council form of municipal government. Towns are governed by a town council 
and townships are governed by a township trustee and advisory board.[114][123] 
From 1880 to 1924, a resident of Indiana was included in all but one presidential 
election. Indiana Representative William Hayden English was nominated for 
Vice-President and ran with Winfield Scott Hancock in the 1880 election.[124] 
In 1884 former Indiana Governor Thomas A. Hendricks was elected Vice-President 
of the United States. He served until his death on November 25, 1885, under 
President Grover Cleveland.[125] In 1888 Indiana Senator Benjamin Harrison 
was elected President of the United States and served one term. He remains 
the only U.S. President from Indiana. Indiana Senator Charles W. Fairbanks 
was elected Vice-President in 1904, serving under President Theodore Roosevelt 
until 1909.[126] Fairbanks made another run for Vice-President with Charles 
Evans Hughes in 1916, but they both lost to Woodrow Wilson and Indiana 
Governor Thomas R. Marshall, who served as Vice-President from 1913 until 
1921.[127] Not until 1988 did another presidential election involve a native 
of Indiana, when Senator Dan Quayle was elected Vice-President and served 
one term with George H. W. Bush.[47] Governor Mike Pence was elected Vice-President 
in 2016, to serve with Donald Trump. Indiana has long been considered to 
be a Republican stronghold,[128][129] particularly in Presidential races, 
but the Cook Partisan Voting Index (CPVI) now rates Indiana as only R+5, 
a smaller Republican edge than is assigned to 20 of the 28 "red" states. 
Indiana was one of only ten states to support Republican Wendell Willkie 
in 1940.[47] On 14 occasions has the Republican candidate defeated the 
Democrat by a double digit margin in the state, including six times where 
a Republican won the state by more than 20%.[130] In 2000 and 2004 George 
W. Bush won the state by a wide margin while the election was much closer 
overall. The state has only supported a Democrat for president five times 
since 1900. In 1912, Woodrow Wilson became the first Democrat to win the 
state with 43% of the vote. Twenty years later, Franklin D. Roosevelt won 
the state with 55% of the vote over incumbent Republican Herbert Hoover. 
Roosevelt won the state again in 1936. In 1964, 56% of voters supported 
Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson over Republican Barry Goldwater. Forty-four years 
later, Democrat Barack Obama narrowly won the state against John McCain 
50% to 49%.[131] In the following election, Republican Mitt Romney won 
back the state for the Republican party with 54% of the vote over incumbent 
Obama who won 43%.[132] While only five Democratic presidential nominees 
have carried Indiana since 1900, 11 Democrats were elected governor during 
that time. Before Mitch Daniels became governor in 2005, Democrats had 
held the office for 16 consecutive years. Indiana elects two senators and 
nine representatives to Congress. The state has 11 electoral votes in presidential 
elections.[130] Seven of the districts favor the Republican Party according 
to the CPVI rankings; there are currently seven Republicans serving as 
representatives and two Democrats. Historically, Republicans have been 
strongest in the eastern and central portions of the state, while Democrats 
have been strongest in the northwestern part of the state. Occasionally, 
certain counties in the southern part of the state will vote Democratic. 
Marion County, Indiana's most populous county, supported the Republican 
candidates from 1968 to 2000, before backing the Democrats in the 2004, 
2008, and 2012, elections. Indiana's second most populous county, Lake 
County, strongly supports the Democratic party and has not voted for a 
Republican since 1972.[130] In 2005, the Bay Area Center for Voting Research 
rated the most liberal and conservative cities in the United States on 
voting statistics in the 2004 presidential election, based on 237 cities 
with populations of more than 100,000. Five Indiana cities were mentioned 
in the study. On the liberal side, Gary was ranked second and South Bend 
came in at 83. Among conservative cities, Fort Wayne was 44th, Evansville 
was 60th and Indianapolis was 82nd on the list.[133] Indiana is home to 
several current and former military installations. The largest of these 
is the Naval Surface Warfare Center Crane Division, located approximately 
25 miles southwest of Bloomington, which is the third largest naval installation 
in the world, comprising approximately 108 square miles of territory. Other 
active installations include Air National Guard fighter units at Fort Wayne, 
and Terre Haute airports (to be consolidated at Fort Wayne under the 2005 
BRAC proposal, with the Terre Haute facility remaining open as a non-flying 
installation). The Army National Guard conducts operations at Camp Atterbury 
in Edinburgh, Indiana, helicopter operations out of Shelbyville Airport 
and urban training at Muscatatuck Urban Training Center. The Army's Newport 
Chemical Depot, which is now closed and turning into a coal purifier plant. 
Also, Naval Operational Support Center Indianapolis is home to several 
Navy Reserve units, two Marine Reserve units, and a small contingent of 
active and full-time-support reserve personnel. Indiana was formerly home 
to two major military installations; Grissom Air Force Base near Peru (realigned 
to an Air Force Reserve installation in 1994) and Fort Benjamin Harrison 
near Indianapolis, now closed, though the Department of Defense continues 
to operate a large finance center there (Defense Finance and Accounting 
Service). Source: Fortune[134] In 2000 Indiana had a work force of 3,084,100.[135] 
The total gross state product in 2010 was $275.7 billion.[136] A high percentage 
of Indiana's income is from manufacturing.[137] The Calumet region of northwest 
Indiana is the largest steel producing area in the U.S. Indiana's other 
manufactures include pharmaceuticals and medical devices, automobiles, 
electrical equipment, transportation equipment, chemical products, rubber, 
petroleum and coal products, and factory machinery. Despite its reliance 
on manufacturing, Indiana has been much less affected by declines in traditional 
Rust Belt manufactures than many of its neighbors. The explanation appears 
to be certain factors in the labor market. First, much of the heavy manufacturing, 
such as industrial machinery and steel, requires highly skilled labor, 
and firms are often willing to locate where hard-to-train skills already 
exist. Second, Indiana's labor force is located primarily in medium-sized 
and smaller cities rather than in very large and expensive metropolises. 
This makes it possible for firms to offer somewhat lower wages for these 
skills than would normally be paid. Firms often see in Indiana a chance 
to obtain higher than average skills at lower than average wages.[138] 
Indiana is home to the international headquarters and research facilities 
of pharmaceutical company Eli Lilly in Indianapolis, the state's largest 
corporation, as well as the world headquarters of Mead Johnson Nutritionals 
in Evansville.[139] Overall, Indiana ranks fifth among all U.S. states 
in total sales and shipments of pharmaceutical products and second highest 
in the number of biopharmaceutical related jobs.[140] Indiana is located 
within the U.S. Corn Belt and Grain Belt. The state has a feedlot-style 
system raising corn to fatten hogs and cattle. Along with corn, soybeans 
are also a major cash crop. Its proximity to large urban centers, such 
as Indianapolis and Chicago, assure that dairying, egg production, and 
specialty horticulture occur. Other crops include melons, tomatoes, grapes, 
mint, popping corn, and tobacco in the southern counties.[141] Most of 
the original land was not prairie and had to be cleared of deciduous trees. 
Many parcels of woodland remain and support a furniture-making sector in 
the southern portion of the state. In 2011 Indiana was ranked first in 
the Midwest and sixth in the country for best places to do business according 
to CEO magazine.[142] Indiana does not have a legal requirement to balance 
the state budget either in law or its constitution. Instead, Indiana has 
a constitutional ban on assuming debt. Indiana has a Rainy Day Fund and 
for healthy reserves proportional to spending. Indiana is one of the few 
states in the U.S. which do not allow a line-item veto. Indiana has a flat 
state income tax rate of 3.4%. Many Indiana counties also collect income 
tax. The state sales tax rate is 7% with exemptions for food, prescription 
medications and over-the-counter medications.[143] In some jurisdictions 
an additional Food and Beverage Tax is charged, at a rate of 1% (Marion 
County's rate is 2%), on sales of prepared meals and beverages.[144] Property 
taxes are imposed on both real and personal property in Indiana and are 
administered by the Department of Local Government Finance. Property is 
subject to taxation by a variety of taxing units (schools, counties, townships, 
cities and towns, libraries), making the total tax rate the sum of the 
tax rates imposed by all taxing units in which a property is located. However, 
a "circuit breaker" law enacted on March 19, 2008 limits property taxes 
to one percent of assessed value for homeowners, two percent for rental 
properties and farmland and three percent for businesses. In Fiscal year 
2011 Indiana reported one of the largest surpluses among U.S states, with 
an extra $1.2 billion in its accounts. Gov. Mitch Daniels, a Republican, 
authorized bonus payments of up to $1,000 for state employees on Friday, 
July 15, 2011. An employee who "meets expectations" will get $500, those 
who "exceed expectations" will receive $750 and "outstanding workers" will 
see an extra $1,000 in their August paychecks[145] Indiana's power production 
chiefly consists of the consumption of fossil fuels, mainly coal. Indiana 
has 24 coal power plants, including the largest coal power plant in the 
United States, Gibson Generating Station, located across the Wabash River 
from Mount Carmel, Illinois. Indiana is also home to the coal-fired plant 
with the highest sulfur dioxide emissions in the United States, the Gallagher 
power plant just west of New Albany.[146] The state has an estimated coal 
reserves of 57 billion tons; state mining operations produces 35 million 
tons of coal annually.[147] Indiana also possesses at least 900 million 
barrels of petroleum reserves in the Trenton Field, though not easily recoverable. 
While Indiana has made commitments to increasing use of renewable resources 
such as wind, hydroelectric, biomass, or solar power, however, progress 
has been very slow, mainly because of the continued abundance of coal in 
Southern Indiana. Most of the new plants in the state have been coal gasification 
plants. Another source is hydroelectric power. Wind power is now being 
developed. New estimates in 2006 raised the wind capacity for Indiana from 
30 MW at 50 m turbine height to 40,000 MW at 70 m, and to 130,000 MW at 
100 m, in 2010, the height of newer turbines.[148] As of the end of 2011, 
Indiana has installed 1,340 MW of wind turbines.[149] See table below for 
individual facilities. Indianapolis International Airport serves the greater 
Indianapolis area and has finished constructing a new passenger terminal. 
The new airport opened in November 2008 and offers a new midfield passenger 
terminal, concourses, air traffic control tower, parking garage, and airfield 
and apron improvements.[150] Other major airports include Evansville Regional 
Airport, Fort Wayne International Airport (which houses the 122d Fighter 
Wing of the Air National Guard), and South Bend International Airport. 
A long-standing proposal to turn Gary Chicago International Airport into 
Chicago's third major airport received a boost in early 2006 with the approval 
of $48 million in federal funding over the next ten years.[151] The Terre 
Haute International Airport has no airlines operating out of the facility 
but is used for private flying. Since 1954, the 181st Fighter Wing of the 
Indiana Air National Guard has been stationed at the airport. However, 
the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Proposal of 2005 stated that the 
181st would lose its fighter mission and F-16 aircraft, leaving the Terre 
Haute facility as a general-aviation only facility. The southern part of 
the state is also served by the Louisville International Airport across 
the Ohio River in Louisville, Kentucky. The southeastern part of the state 
is served by the Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport also 
across the Ohio River in Hebron, Kentucky. Most residents of Northwest 
Indiana, which is primarily in the Chicago Metropolitan Area, use the two 
Chicago airports, O'Hare International Airport and Chicago Midway International 
Airport. The major U.S. Interstate highways in Indiana are Interstate 64 
(I-64), I-65, I-265, I-465, I-865, I-69, I-469, I-70, I-74, I-80, I-90, 
I-94, and I-275. The various highways intersecting in and around Indianapolis, 
along with its historical status as a major railroad hub, and the canals 
that once crossed Indiana, are the source of the state's motto, the Crossroads 
of America. There are also many U.S. routes and state highways maintained 
by the Indiana Department of Transportation. These are numbered according 
to the same convention as U.S. Highways. Indiana allows highways of different 
classifications to have the same number. For example, I-64 and Indiana 
State Road 64 both exist (rather close to each other) in Indiana, but are 
two distinct roads with no relation to one another. Most Indiana counties 
use a grid-based system to identify county roads; this system replaced 
the older arbitrary system of road numbers and names, and (among other 
things) makes it much easier to identify the sources of calls placed to 
the 9-1-1 system. Such systems are easier to implement in the glacially 
flattened northern and central portions of the state. Rural counties in 
the southern third of the state are less likely to have grids and more 
likely to rely on unsystematic road names (e.g., Crawford, Harrison, Perry, 
Scott, and Washington Counties). There are also counties in the northern 
portions of the state that have never implemented a grid, or have only 
partially implemented one. Some counties are also laid out in an almost 
diamond-like grid system (e.g., Clark, Floyd, Gibson, and Knox Counties). 
Such a system is also almost useless in those situations as well. Knox 
County once operated two different grid systems for county roads because 
the county was laid out using two different survey grids, but has since 
decided to use road names and combine roads instead. Notably, the county 
road grid system of St. Joseph County, whose major city is South Bend, 
uses perennial (tree) names (i.e. Ash, Hickory, Ironwood, etc.) in alphabetical 
order for North-South roads and Presidential and other noteworthy names 
(i.e., Adams, Edison, Lincoln Way, etc.) in alphabetical order for East-West 
roads. There are exceptions to this rule in downtown South Bend and Mishawaka. 
Hamilton county just continues the numbered street system from Downtown 
Indianapolis from 96th Street at the Marion County line to 296th street 
at the Tipton County line. Indiana has more than 4,255 railroad route miles, 
of which 91 percent are operated by Class I railroads, principally CSX 
Transportation and the Norfolk Southern Railway. Other Class I railroads 
in Indiana include the Canadian National Railway and Soo Line Railroad, 
a Canadian Pacific Railway subsidiary, as well as Amtrak. The remaining 
miles are operated by 37 regional, local, and switching and terminal railroads. 
The South Shore Line is one of the country's most notable commuter rail 
systems, extending from Chicago to South Bend. Indiana is currently implementing 
an extensive rail plan that was prepared in 2002 by the Parsons Corporation.[152] 
Many recreational trails, such as the Monon Trail and Cardinal Greenway, 
have been created from abandoned rails routes. Indiana annually ships over 
70 million tons of cargo by water each year, which ranks 14th among all 
U.S. states. More than half of Indiana's border is water, which includes 
400 miles (640 km) of direct access to two major freight transportation 
arteries: the Great Lakes/St. Lawrence Seaway (via Lake Michigan) and the 
Inland Waterway System (via the Ohio River). The Ports of Indiana manages 
three major ports which include Burns Harbor, Jeffersonville, and Mount 
Vernon.[153] In Evansville, three public and several private port facilities 
receive year-round service from five major barge lines operating on the 
Ohio River. Evansville has been a U.S. Customs Port of Entry for more than 
125 years. Because of this, it is possible to have international cargo 
shipped to Evansville in bond. The international cargo can then clear Customs 
in Evansville rather than a coastal port. Indiana's 1816 constitution was 
the first in the country to implement a state-funded public school system. 
It also allotted one township for a public university.[154] However, the 
plan turned out to be far too idealistic for a pioneer society, as tax 
money was not accessible for its organization. In the 1840s, Caleb Mills 
pressed the need for tax-supported schools, and in 1851 his advice was 
included in the new state constitution. Although the growth of the public 
school system was held up by legal entanglements, many public elementary 
schools were in use by 1870. Most children in Indiana attend public schools, 
but nearly 10% attend private schools and parochial schools. About one-half 
of all college students in Indiana are enrolled in state-supported four-year 
schools. The largest educational institution is Indiana University, the 
flagship campus of which was endorsed as Indiana Seminary in 1820. Indiana 
State University was established as the state's Normal School in 1865; 
Purdue University was chartered as a land-grant college in 1869. The three 
other independent state universities are Vincennes University (Founded 
in 1801 by the Indiana Territory), Ball State University (1918) and University 
of Southern Indiana (1965 as ISU - Evansville). Many of the private colleges 
and universities in Indiana are affiliated with religious groups. The University 
of Notre Dame and the University of Saint Francis are popular Roman Catholic 
schools. Universities affiliated with Protestant denominations include 
Anderson University, Butler University, Indiana Wesleyan University, Taylor 
University, Franklin College, Hanover College, DePauw University, Earlham 
College, Valparaiso University, University of Indianapolis,[114] and University 
of Evansville.[155] The state's community college system, Ivy Tech Community 
College of Indiana, serves nearly 200,000 students annually, making it 
the state's largest public post-secondary educational institution and the 
nation's largest singly accredited statewide community college system.[156] 
In 2008, the Indiana University system agreed to shift most of its associate 
(2-year) degrees to the Ivy Tech Community College System.[157] The state 
has several universities ranked among the best in 2013 rankings of the 
U.S. News & World Report. The University of Notre Dame is ranked among 
the top 20, with Indiana University Bloomington and Purdue University ranking 
in the top 100. Indiana University - Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI) 
has recently made it into the top 200 U.S. News & World Report rankings. 
Butler, Valparaiso, and the University of Evansville are ranked among the 
top ten in the Regional University Midwest Rankings. Purdue's engineering 
programs are ranked eighth in the country. In addition, Taylor University 
is ranked first in the Regional College Midwest Rankings and Rose-Hulman 
Institute of Technology has been considered the top Undergraduate Engineering 
school (where a doctorate is not offered) for 15 consecutive years.[158][159][160][161] 
As of 2013[update] Indiana has produced more National Basketball Association 
(NBA) players per capita than any other state. Muncie has produced the 
most per capita of any American city, with two other Indiana cities in 
the top ten.[162] It has a rich basketball heritage that reaches back to 
the formative years of the sport itself. The Indiana Pacers of the NBA 
play their home games at Bankers Life Fieldhouse; they began play in 1967 
in the American Basketball Association (ABA) and joined the NBA when the 
leagues merged in 1976. Although James Naismith developed basketball in 
Springfield, Massachusetts in 1891, Indiana is where high school basketball 
was born. In 1925, Naismith visited an Indiana basketball state finals 
game along with 15,000 screaming fans and later wrote "Basketball really 
had its origin in Indiana, which remains the center of the sport." The 
1986 film Hoosiers is inspired by the story of the 1954 Indiana state champions 
Milan High School. Professional basketball player Larry Bird was born in 
West Baden Springs and was raised in French Lick. He went on to lead the 
Boston Celtics to the NBA championship in 1981, 1984, and 1986.[163] Indianapolis 
is home to the Indianapolis Colts. The Colts are members of the South Division 
of the American Football Conference. The Colts have roots back to 1913 
as the Dayton Triangles. They became an official team after moving to Baltimore, 
MD, in 1953. In 1984, the Colts relocated to Indianapolis, leading to an 
eventual rivalry with the Baltimore Ravens. After calling the RCA Dome 
home for 25 years, the Colts currently play their home games at Lucas Oil 
Stadium in Indianapolis. While in Baltimore, the Colts won the 1970 Super 
Bowl. In Indianapolis, the Colts won Super Bowl XLI, bringing the franchise 
total to two. In recent years the Colts have regularly competed in the 
NFL playoffs. Indiana has an extensive history with auto racing. Indianapolis 
hosts the Indianapolis 500 mile race over Memorial Day weekend at the Indianapolis 
Motor Speedway every May. The name of the race is usually shortened to 
"Indy 500" and also goes by the nickname "The Greatest Spectacle in Racing." 
The race attracts over 250,000 people every year making it the largest 
single day sporting event in the world. The track also hosts the Allstate 
400 at the Brickyard (NASCAR) and the Red Bull Indianapolis Grand Prix 
(MotoGP). From 2000 to 2007, it hosted the United States Grand Prix (Formula 
One). Indiana features the world's largest and most prestigious drag race, 
the NHRA Mac Tools U.S. Nationals, held each Labor Day weekend at Lucas 
Oil Raceway at Indianapolis in Clermont, Indiana. Indiana is also host 
to two major unlimited hydroplane racing power boat race circuits in the 
major H1 Unlimited league: Thunder on the Ohio (Evansville, Indiana) and 
the Madison Regatta (Madison, Indiana). The following table shows the professional 
sports teams in Indiana. Teams in bold are in major professional leagues. 
The following is a table of sports venues in Indiana that have a capacity 
in excess of 30,000: Indiana has had great sports success at the collegiate 
level. In men's basketball, the Indiana Hoosiers have won five NCAA national 
championships and 21 Big Ten Conference championships. The Purdue Boilermakers 
were selected as the national champions in 1932 before the creation of 
the tournament, and have won 22 Big Ten championships. The Boilermakers 
along with the Notre Dame Fighting Irish have both won a national championship 
in women's basketball. In college football, the Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
have won 11 consensus national championships, as well as the Rose Bowl 
Game, Cotton Bowl Classic, Orange Bowl and Sugar Bowl. Meanwhile, the Purdue 
Boilermakers have won 10 Big Ten championships and have won the Rose Bowl 
and Peach Bowl. Schools fielding NCAA Division I athletic programs include: 
