The Indianapolis ABCs were a Negro league baseball team that played both 
as an independent club and as a charter member of the first Negro National 
League (NNL). They claimed the western championship of black baseball in 
1915 and 1916,[citation needed] and finished second in the 1922 NNL[citation 
needed]. Among their best players were Baseball Hall of Fame members Oscar 
Charleston, Biz Mackey, and Ben Taylor. Originally organized by the American 
Brewing Company (thus "A.B.C.s") in the early 20th century, the team was 
managed by Ran Butler in 1911.[2] It was then purchased by Thomas Bowser, 
a white bail bondsman, in 1912. Two years later, C. I. Taylor, formerly 
of the Birmingham Giants and West Baden Sprudels, purchased a half-interest 
in the ABCs, and became the team's manager. Taylor stocked the ABCs with 
his brothers Ben, John, and Jim, all among the best African-American players 
in baseball. Taylor was a noted judge of young talent; some of the well-known 
players he brought to the big time included center fielder Charleston, 
second baseman Bingo DeMoss, third baseman-outfielder Dave Malarcher, outfielder 
George Shively, and pitchers Dizzy Dismukes, Jim Jeffries, and Dicta Johnson.[citation 
needed] By 1915, the ABCs were already challenging Rube Foster's Chicago 
American Giants for supremacy in black baseball. That year they defeated 
the American Giants in a series for the western black championship, though 
Foster disputed the title. That year, Taylor cut a deal to use the park 
left when the city's entry in the Federal League dissolved; Bowser disagreed 
with the deal, and two owners parted company, each organizing a rival ABCs 
squad. Taylor had the better of the contest for talent, retaining the core 
of the 1915 team, and again claiming a disputed championship over the American 
Giants. In 1917, Bowser sold his club, generally known as Bowser's ABCs, 
to a black businessman named Warner Jewell. Jewell's ABCs, playing at Northwestern 
Park, continued as a sort of farm club to Taylor's team. Federal League 
Park was torn down, and Taylor turned to Washington Park, the home of the 
minor league Indianapolis Indians. The Chicago American Giants were generally 
recognized as western champions for 1917, finally ending the ABCs' two-year 
claim on the title.[citation needed] In 1920, after a year-long absence 
from baseball, Taylor reorganized the ABCs and entered them in the new 
Negro National League (NNL), finishing in fourth place with a 39–35 record. 
The following season Oscar Charleston left for the St. Louis Giants, and 
the ABCs sagged to 35–38 and fifth place, despite a great season from Ben 
Taylor. During the off season in 1922, C. I. Taylor died and his widow 
Olivia continued as the club's owner, and Ben Taylor became the playing 
manager. He reacquired Charleston, who led a rejuvenated ABCs squad to 
a 46–33 record and second-place finish. The young catcher Biz Mackey enjoyed 
a breakout season in 1922, and with Taylor, Charleston, and third baseman 
Henry Blackman keyed a prolific offense. Both Ben Taylor and Biz Mackey 
jumped to the Eastern Colored League for the 1923 season, but Charleston 
continued to hit (.364, 11 home runs, 94 RBI in 84 games), and the ABCs 
finished 44–31, good for fourth place. Charleston, however, jumped east 
himself in 1924, joining the Harrisburg Giants. 1924 saw the ABCs struggle 
to a 4–17 record before they were dropped by the league at mid-season. 
Warner Jewell organized a new version of the ABCs for 1925, which finished 
a dismal 17–57 in the NNL; in 1926, they improved to 43–45, but folded 
at season's end. Indianapolis ABCs (II): Five years later, Candy Jim Taylor 
returned to Indianapolis and organized another new franchise called the 
ABCs, which played in the NNL's last season in 1931, then joined the Negro 
Southern League for 1932. In 1933, Taylor brought the ABCs into Gus Greenlee's 
new Negro National League; but low attendance led Taylor to move the club 
to Detroit and rename them the Stars shortly after opening day. Indianapolis 
ABCs (III): The name "Indianapolis ABCs" was also used by a Negro American 
League team in 1938, but it relocated to St. Louis for the 1939 season. 
Indianapolis ABCs (IV): The name "Indianapolis ABCs" was also used by a 
Negro American League team in 1939, but it folded in May before the season 
ended. This team relocated from Atlanta where they played as the Black 
