The Indian Cricket League (ICL) was a private cricket league funded by 
Zee Entertainment Enterprises that operated between 2007 and 2009 in India. 
Its two seasons included tournaments between four international teams (World 
XI, India, Pakistan and Bangladesh) and nine domestic teams notionally 
located in major Indian cities as well as the champions Lahore Badshahs 
who were based in Lahore, Pakistan and Dhaka Warriors based in Dhaka, Bangladesh. 
The matches were played in the Twenty20 format. There was also a planned 
domestic 50-over tournament, but this did not eventuate. While its establishment 
pre-dated the Indian Premier League, the ICL folded in 2009. Aside from 
commercial factors, the ICL lacked the support of the Board of Control 
for Cricket in India and International Cricket Council. The second season, 
which added Ahmedabad as a venue, commenced in the last quarter of 2008, 
with the Lahore Badshahs from Pakistan winning. Many international cricketers 
played in it like Imran Nazir, Abdur Razzaq, Shane Bond, Inzamam ul haq 
and Moin Khan was coach of Lahore Badshahs. Each team was coached by a 
former international cricketer and comprised four international, two Indian 
and eight budding domestic players. Essel Group also planned to set up 
cricket academies all over the country. The Board of Control for Cricket 
in India (BCCI) was assured that it was free to draw from ICL's talent 
pool. The league became active in November 2007 with matches in the Twenty20 
format. Former international cricketers including Anjingsora Risora, Tony 
Greig, Dean Jones and Kiran More were hired as board members of the Indian 
Cricket League.[1] The board positions will be paid positions.[2] World 
XI India Pakistan Bangladesh Several factors have played a role in formulation 
of a cricket league and which may run in parallel to the current official 
Indian cricket control body, BCCI. There is wide disparity between the 
facilities enjoyed by the national team and the regional ones. This makes 
the regional players far from finished products when they are called to 
represent their country, preventing a huge country like India from having 
adequate reserve strength in the national squad when key players are injured 
or retire. Also, the regional cricket boards depend on the BCCI for hand-outs 
of funds for infrastructure and grassroots development. The players who 
are entrenched at the top have strong backing from sports management firms 
and also can afford the best in personal trainers, physiotherapists and 
technical consultants, which are well beyond the scope of the average player. 
The Essel group has expressed a keen desire to help India develop cricketing 
talent, as well as provide lucrative sports programming for Zee Telefilms, 
which lost out on the rights to broadcast all BCCI-sanctioned cricket matches 
in India until 2011. Essel Group had originally launched Zee Sports earlier 
with the anticipation of securing at least some of the BCCI telecast rights 
in 2006. This was followed by Zee acquiring 50 percent in TEN Sports in 
November 2006 for Rs. 2.57 billion. This gave the company a few international 
cricket rights – West Indies, Sri Lanka and Pakistan. Cricket played in 
India generates Rs. 10 billion in advertising and subscription revenue 
and Subhash Chandra has been acutely aware of his company missing out on 
this lucrative cricket pie. During his battle with BCCI and ESPN Star Sports 
for the five-year telecast rights in August–September 2004 in the Bombay 
High Court, Chandra was present every day for the hearings. Despite Zee 
bidding the highest at $307 million, BCCI and its then president Jagmohan 
Dalmiya denied him the rights. The pain of denial has been with Chandra 
since 2000 when the ICC World Cup rights were sold to NewsCorp's Global 
Cricket Corporation (GCC) for $550 million despite Zee bidding the highest 
at $650 million citing Zee's insufficient sports marketing experience. 
In August 2005, Zee again emerged as a forerunner with a pitch of over 
$340 million while ESPN Star Sports, the other principal contender, is 
believed to have offered around $325 million. BCCI took the stance that 
Zee was not qualified as a specialist broadcaster and refused to consider 
Zee's proposal. The matter expectedly went to court and Doordarshan emerged 
the beneficiary. Chandra then tried the political route too and supported 
Sharad Pawar's candidature as BCCI president against Dalmiya. Pawar emerged 
victorious but not Chandra. In the last round of bidding in February, last 
year, it was Nimbus who bagged BCCI's telecast rights till 2011 for $613 million 
with Zee trailing at $513 million. Since there was a Zee-Nimbus alliance 
before the bidding, media pundits thought Nimbus' bid was a Zee front. 
But Nimbus chose to go its own way and launched its own sports network 
– NEO Sports.In 2012 stars ports bought broadcasting rights for international 
and domestic matches in India for more than $550 million. The ICL received 
some support from unexpected quarters. There was a fear that lack of access 
to infrastructure, like the premier cricket stadiums, would limit the success 
of the operation of the league, but support from various government bodies 
boosted the league. Camps were held at Mayajaal in Chennai, a private resort 
with adequate cricket facilities.[3] The then head of Indian Railways Lalu 
Prasad Yadav showed his backing by opening all the cricket stadiums controlled 
by the Indian Railways to the league. Describing the ICL as a "good initiative", 
Prasad issued a statement saying that the BCCI and ICL should each come 
up with a cricket team and play against each other to show who's the best.[4] 
The state government of West Bengal also agreed to rent its cricket grounds, 
notably Eden Gardens, to the league.[5] In Ahmedabad, Ahmedabad Municipal 
Corporation provided its Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Stadium for matches. 
The BCCI refused to recognise the ICL as a cricket league, and criticised 
Kiran More and Kapil Dev for joining the ICL.[6] Kapil Dev's association 
with ICL was seen by the establishment as a conflict of interest as he 
was also the chairman of National Cricket Academy, a BCCI owned cricket 
facility.[7] On 21 August 2007 Kapil Dev was sacked from his NCA post.[8] 
Subhash Chandra had earlier stated that the ICL will go ahead regardless 
of the BCCI's stance. The International Cricket Council gave a statement 
through its chief executive, Malcolm Speed, that the ICC would not recognize 
the ICL unless the BCCI chooses to recognise it. The ICC looks at the ICL 
as an issue to be sorted out by the BCCI. On 25 July 2012 Kapil Dev informed 
BCCI that he had resigned from the ICL.[9] Faced with the threat of young 
players joining the ICL, the BCCI jacked up prize money for winners, runners-up 
and losing semi-finalists across all tournaments. An average domestic cricketer 
can hope to make around Rs 35,000 per match day from the season of 2007–08: 
more than double the Rs 16,000 they got in 2005–06. The BCCI has also planned 
to do away with honorary selectors, who will be paid professionals from 
September 2008 onwards.[10] The BCCI started its own international Twenty20 
league. The official league, which launched in April 2008, is called the 
Indian Premier League Twenty20 cricket. The league model is based on the 
franchise model of the National Football League and Major League Baseball 
in the US.[11] In August 2007, the ICL filed a petition against the BCCI 
in the Delhi High Court accusing the BCCI of threatening and intimidating 
them and other state organisations, and asked the court to stop BCCI from 
interfering with its attempts to sign up players for its tournaments. It 
also petitioned that the BCCI stop trying to "out-hire" cricket stadiums 
in India that are owned by the state governments, in anti-competitive attempts 
to stop the ICL from using them to play matches. On 27 August 2007, the 
Delhi High Court ruled in favour of the ICL. In its ruling, the Delhi High 
Court said that players should not suffer in the battle between corporate 
giants. The court has issued notices to all corporate sponsors, the state 
cricket associations & the BCCI against terminating valid contracts of 
players joining the ICL.[12] The Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices 
Commission (MRTPC) of India had asked its Director-General of Investigation 
to do an initial investigation into the BCCI's action against players who 
had joined the ICL. The investigation was based on media reports of the 
BCCI giving an open statement that it will ban players who join ICL. It 
was also reported in the media that all state associations, under direction 
from the BCCI, have cancelled contracts with players.[13] In considering 
rejoining the ICL former England wicketkeeper Paul Nixon was said to have 
put his career in jeopardy because any player that signs up with the ICL, 
which does not have official status from the International Cricket Council, 
risks losing their registration.[14] The addition of a new team from Dhaka 
in Bangladesh, consisting largely of Bangladesh internationals caused more 
controversy as the cricket board of that country banned the players for 
10 years for joining the 'rebel' ICL.[15] Faced with the departure of so 
many players the board appealed to other Bangladeshi players to reject 
the new ICL team, stay loyal to the board and embrace the opportunity to 
play for their country.[16] The future of ICL has become dark when BCCI 
allowed ICL players to play international matches.Since then many ICL players 
have returned to their national team including famous players like Shane 
Bond (now retired) and Abdul Razzaq. BCCI after seeing the success of ICL 
wanted to start their own league called "IPL". So, BCCI didn't miss any 
chance to stop the league by banning players and stadium associated with 
ICL. Shortly before the conclusion of the inaugural tournament, the ICL 
announced its plans for expansion, which include a fifty over tournament 
in February 2008, and the expansion of the ICL Indian Championship to eight 
teams for the second tournament, due to be held in September and October 
2008.[17] A similar initiative has been launched in United States by the 
PayAutoMata group but details have yet to emerge.[18] In October 2008, 
the promoters of the ICL, Zee and its parent company Essel Sports Pvt. 
Ltd, had applied for trademark registration of T20 under Class 28 of the 
Trade Mark Rules, 2002.[19] [20] Independent analysts have had difficulty 
gauging the financial viability of the ICL due to the lack of transparency 
of the league's operations. Terms of contracts are hidden and advertising 
revenue from match telecasts – considered to be a major contributor to 
revenues – have never been disclosed. Because they are unsanctioned by 
the ICC, the teams do not have access to the best facilities across the 
whole country or access to the best players, limiting their ability to 
generate high gate revenues. This lack of transparency leads to questions 
regarding the overall viability of the ICL's business model.[citation needed] 
The ICL has now come to an end after all its players dropped out.This was 
because of the offer of amnesty given by BCCI to players choosing to leave 
the ICL. Since the ICL was conducted by Zee Telefilms, the ICL was broadcast 
in most domains on the Zee network.[21] In November 2008, the Bangladeshi 
government set a ban on the broadcasting of live matches of the ICL on 
the private held Diganta TV channel in the country. This would extend to 
the ICL World Series featuring the country's national team.[22] Kalpesh 
Patel. It started with eight teams on 2 July 2004 and expired the same 
