Indianapolis–Carmel–Anderson or Indianapolis metropolitan area is an 11-county 
metropolitan area in the U.S. state of Indiana, as defined by the Office 
of Management and Budget.[1] The metropolitan area is situated in Central 
Indiana, within the American Midwest. The metropolitan area is centered 
on the capital and most populous city of Indiana, Indianapolis. Indianapolis–Carmel–Anderson 
is the 33rd most populous metropolitan area in the United States, and largest 
in the state of Indiana. As of 2014, the population was 1,971,274.[2] Indianapolis 
also anchors the larger Indianapolis–Carmel–Muncie combined statistical 
area (CSA), the 26th most populated, with 2,336,237. The Indianapolis metropolitan 
area is part of the Great Lakes Megalopolis, which contains an estimated 
59 million people. The larger Indianapolis-Carmel-Muncie Combined Statistical 
Area (CSA) includes the Columbus, IN Metropolitan Statistical Area, Crawfordsville, 
IN Micropolitan Statistical Area, Greensburg, IN Micropolitan Statistical 
Area, Indianapolis-Carmel-Anderson, IN Metropolitan Statistical Area, Muncie, 
IN Metropolitan Statistical Area, New Castle, IN Micropolitan Statistical 
Area, North Vernon, IN Micropolitan Statistical Area, and the Seymour, 
IN Micropolitan Statistical Area.[3] The Indianapolis-Carmel-Muncie CSA 
had a population of 2,166,632 in 2014.[4] The 317 area code covered all 
of northern and central Indiana until 1948, when the 219 area code was 
created. Central Indiana remained under the 317 banner until 1997, when 
growth in and around Indianapolis prompted the creation of 765 area code. 
The 317 area code covers the Indianapolis metropolitan area. The counties 
covered by 317 are Boone County, Hancock County, Hamilton County, Hendricks 
County, Johnson County, Madison County, Morgan County, and Shelby County. 
According to the Indiana Office of Utility Consumer Counselor, the 317 
area code is expected to run out of numbers in 2017.[5] Overlay area code 
463 will be implemented in late 2016, thereby requiring 10-digit dialing.[6] 
Indiana's "Crossroads of America" moniker is largely attributed to the 
historical function of the Indianapolis metropolitan area has played as 
a center for logistics and transportation. The Indianapolis area is a major 
point on the United States Interstate Highway System, as it is a confluence 
of four major interstate highways: Other interstates that cross through 
the Indianapolis area include: Other notable roads in the area are: The 
Indianapolis metropolitan area is served by several airports, most under 
ownership and operation of the Indianapolis Airport Authority, including 
Eagle Creek Airpark (EYE), Indianapolis Metropolitan Airport (UMP), Indianapolis 
Regional Airport (MQJ), Hendricks County Airport (2R2), Indianapolis Downtown 
Heliport (8A4), and the busiest airport in the state, Indianapolis International 
Airport (IND). In 2014, Indianapolis International served 7.4 million passengers 
and handled nearly 1 million metric tonnes of cargo. Other airports within 
the region include: Indianapolis Union Station serves as a hub for Amtrak, 
which maintains service to the Cardinal and is the eastern terminus of 
the Hoosier State. The Indianapolis metropolitan area is home to a number 
of higher education institutions, including: The ‡ symbol denotes university 
branches whose main campuses are located outside the Indianapolis metropolitan 
area. Headquartered in Indianapolis, the National Collegiate Athletic Association 
(NCAA) is the preeminent collegiate athletic governing body in the U.S. 
and Canada, regulating athletes of 1,281 institutions; conferences; organizations; 
and individuals. The NCAA also organizes the athletic programs of many 
colleges and universities and helps more than 450,000 college student-athletes 
who compete annually in college sports. The Indianapolis metropolitan area 
hosts several notable sporting events annually, including the Brickyard 
400, Grand Prix of Indianapolis, NHRA U.S. Nationals, NFL Scouting Combine, 
Big Ten Football Championship Game, the largest half marathon in the U.S.,[7] 
and the largest single-day sporting event in the world, the Indianapolis 
500. The cars competing in the latter race are known as IndyCars as a reference 
to the event. Indianapolis has also been a frequent host of the NCAA Division 
I Men's and Women's basketball tournaments. Other major sporting events 
hosted include Pan American Games X in 1987, Super Bowl XLVI in 2012,[8] 
and the 2013 International Champions Cup between Chelsea F.C. and Inter 
Milan.[9] High school sports are highly competitive in Greater Indianapolis. 
In 2013, MaxPreps ranked Indianapolis No. 3 in its Top 10 Metro Areas for 
