Home Away The Indios de Mayagüez (Mayagüez Indians) are a baseball team 
in Puerto Rico's Liga de Béisbol Profesional Roberto Clemente (Roberto 
Clemente Professional Baseball League, in Spanish). Based in Mayagüez, 
the Indios have won 18 national championships and two Caribbean World Series.[1] 
It is one of four teams remaining from the original six incorporated into 
the LBPPR at its founding in 1938. The Indios were named after the formerly 
named Cervecería India (now the Compañía Cervecera de Puerto Rico, or CCC), 
the local brewery, and its formal sponsor over most of the team's 75-year 
run) besides the fact that Mayagüez, located at the western coast of Puerto 
Rico, has a strong indigenous heritage, starting with the city's name (which 
is derived from the Taíno language). The team's colors are burgundy, red 
and gold, which at one time were the colors on the label of Cerveza India, 
the original flagship product of the brewery which promoted the team and 
served as base for its name.[2] The CCC's current flagship product, Cerveza 
Medalla Light, is now the team's official endorser. The Indios de Mayagüez 
team is the team with the most championship wins in PRBL history (seventeen, 
as of January 22, 2014). It has reached the PRBL final series 33 times 
(as of said date). At a time when most Puerto Rican cities and towns are 
better known for their support of basketball or volleyball teams, the city 
of Mayagüez remains as a strong baseball stronghold in the island nation. 
The team's fan base has a reputation for loyalty bordering in the extreme, 
and average game attendance by Indios fans has been consistently high (and 
at times the highest) in the Puerto Rico winter league during recent seasons. 
At any given year -should the Indios make it to the PRBL tournament playoffs- 
attendance to the team's baseball park and post-game celebrations tend 
to be particularly high because they usually coincide with the celebration 
of the patron saint feasts (fiestas patronales) for the city of Mayagüez; 
it is not unusual for a championship game to coincide with Candlemas (2 
February) or Candlemas Eve. The Indios' management team is led by general 
manager Frankie Thon (the brother of former MLB player Dickie Thon). The 
team's administrator is Raúl Villalobos. Carlos Baerga is the team's current 
manager (as of the 2013–2014 season). Baseball had been played in Mayagüez 
since the Spanish–American War; a city yearbook from the 1970s claimed 
that the very same day troops of the United States Army invaded the city 
(August 11, 1898), the troops played an impromptu baseball game on the 
city's main plaza. However, evidence tends to confirm that baseball became 
a regular pastime in the city by 1902. Mayagüez had semi-professional baseball 
teams prior to the 1938 founding of the team, through various inceptions. 
The earliest team was named "Pope-Hartford" (after the automotive brand), 
and was organized in 1905 by Santiago Panzardi, the brand's importer. It 
was later substituted by a succession of teams: the Mayagüez Cardinals, 
the Yaguez, and others. These teams played games against organized teams 
from the rest of the island, Venezuela and Cuba, as well as teams assembled 
from Negro league baseball players. Once the LBPPR was created, the Mayagüez 
team became a part of it.[3] A management team led by Alfonso Valdés Cobián 
owned the team during its initial years, between 1938 and 1957. The Indios 
won their first LBPPR championship in 1949. Originally the Indios played 
their home games in the facilities of La Liga de París.,[2] now named the 
Santiago Lloréns baseball park, which has been in use since February 14, 
1912. The team moved from their previous grounds to then-new Isidoro García 
Baseball Stadium, located near the southwest corner of the city, later 
that year. Babel Pérez assumed the management of the Indios after Alfonso 
Valdés. (He had worked for Don Alfonso since the late '40s) The Indios 
won two championships under his helm, in 1962–1963 and 1965-1966. Joe Christopher 
was a major player for the Indios during the period.[4] Pérez died suddenly 
in Bamberg, Germany in 1971, while visiting one of his daughters and new 
grandson, the great Ovidio Enrique Pérez II. Gloria Méndez Pérez, widow 
of Babel Pérez, owned the team until its sale in 1974, entering into baseball 
history as the first female to own a baseball team. A new management team 
led by Luis Gómez Monagas, a successful insurance businessman, and father. 
(and later one-time Uncle-in-law of Colombian actor and folk singer Carlos 
Vives) bought the Indios in 1974. At the time, after winning the 1965 - 
66 league championship the Indios had had a dry spell, having earned only 
two championships in more than 15 years and consistently ending in last 
place in every LBPPR tournament between the 1966 - 67 season and the 1973-74 
season, except the 1969-70, when the team made the playoffs in a very surprising 
fashion. On two occasions, the franchise threatened to move to Bayamón, 
but popular support kept the team in Mayagüez both times. To make matters 
worse, the Isidoro García baseball stadium was in such a state of disrepair 
that it was literally unsafe for fans, players and field keepers. The 1977–1978 
team literally saved the franchise from bankruptcy and oblivion. Managed 
by Rene Lacheman, and provided with a powerful lineup that featured Ron 
LeFlore, Jim Dwyer, Kurt Bevacqua and José Manuel Morales in the 1-4 spots, 
the team barely made it to the playoffs, to consequently sweep the semi-final 
and final series. The final game for the series had Mayagüez beat the coincidentally 
named Bayamón Cowboys with a score of 18-2. The team eventually made it 
to Mazatlán, Mexico, where it won the 1978 Caribbean World Series. This 
was a turning point in the team's history. Fan support gave the Indios' 
management team enough financial solvency to save the franchise. From winning 
only three championships in 40 years, the team went on to win 13 championships 
in the 34 years following the 1978 season. Collective fan protests demanded 
repairs to the baseball stadium from its owner, the then-named Parks and 
Leisure Administration of Puerto Rico (now called the Puerto Rico Department 
of Recreation and Sports), a government agency that still owns and controls 
the new stadium that has since replaced the old one. The stadium was remodeled 
soon after (1980). The Indios under Gomez ownership went on to win four 
more championships (83-84, 85–86, 87-88, 88-89) for a total of five during 
his tenure. In 1989 Gomez sold the team to Luis Iván Méndez, a former commentator 
for the team's radio broadcasts. This was a controversial move, since Méndez's 
extreme passion for the team was viewed with skepticism by some local fans, 
who considered him to be brash, arrogant, and motivated chiefly by money. 
As a broadcaster, Méndez had been a devil's advocate during the team's 
lean years, providing much necessary feedback to improve its lineup, but 
his comments were rather blunt at times, something that alienated team 
fans (he was even confrontational with a few of them). The fact that Méndez 
was the first non-native of the city to own the team (Méndez was a native 
of nearby San Sebastián, Puerto Rico) did not help. Some fans even suspected 
Méndez of wanting to move the team to his hometown, which had a successful 
AA League franchise. Objectively, though, Méndez not only attempted to 
raise fan support to a near-religious status, but was also responsible 
for five championships and three runner-up spots. He was responsible for 
establishing or endorsing many team rituals, changing the team's colors 
to burgundy and gold, and even demanding that the Indios wear their own 
uniform (and not wear one with the name "Puerto Rico") when going to the 
Caribbean World Series. Many fans decided to have a love-hate relationship 
with Méndez, praising his business smarts and baseball acumen while hating 
him personally. Méndez, who had grown tired of public criticism against 
him (and who faced a suspension from the LBPPR for assaulting a league 
peer), sold ownership of the team to Daniel Aquino, a native of the Dominican 
Republic who had earned a Mechanical Engineering degree from the nearby 
University of Puerto Rico at Mayagüez. The fans' reaction to Aquino, who 
was once the owner of the Leones del Escogido of the Dominican winter league, 
made the backlash against Méndez pale in comparison. Aquino had experienced 
considerable criticism in his home country for "watering down" the Leones' 
roster due to escalating payroll costs. Xenophobia played a role in criticism 
against Aquino, who repeatedly countered by saying that he had strong personal 
ties to Puerto Rico and Mayagüez, and that after his experience with the 
Leones' he had realized that he would not jump into managing any other 
baseball team if he didn't have a personal stake in the team's outcome. 
However, Aquino proved to be a successful owner, helped in part by the 
inclusion of yet another controversial (and very vocal) baseball executive, 
Carlos Pieve, to his management team (this time as general manager). Aquino's 
first year as owner had the Indios win a league championship (2003), only 
to have them end up last the following year (2004), and subsequently win 
yet another championship the next year (2005). The team lost the 2006 final 
series against the Gigantes de Carolina and lost again against the team 
in the semifinal round of the 2007 playoffs.[5] As their home stadium, 
Isidoro García Baseball Stadium, was demolished and rebuilt to host the 
2010 Central American and Caribbean Games, the Indios were forced to relocate 
temporarily to nearby Aguadilla, Puerto Rico. They played at Luis A. Canena 
Marquez Stadium, under the name "Indios-Tiburones", a marketing concept 
that evoked the Tiburones de Aguadilla (Aguadilla Sharks), a now-defunct 
LBPPR team that was active in the 1940s and 1950s. On November 18, 2009, 
the Lobos defeated the Indios.[6] After defeating the Indios on November 
19, 2009, the Gigantes gained the league's lead for a brief period of time.[7] 
On November 25, 2009, the Indios defeated the Leones to win their fourth 
game of the season. Mayagüez finished in fourth place in the regular season 
(2009–2010). They defeated the Lobos 4 games to 3 in the playoff to advance 
to their 30th championship series. Indios de Mayagüez won their 16th championship 
(most in the PRBL) when they beat Criollos de Caguas 4 games to 1. Three 
games in this series went to extra innings.[8][9] Major League Baseball 
players who played with the Indios include Dennis McClain, Boog Powell, 
Jim Northrup, Willie Horton, Mickey Lolich, Jack Morris, Dave McNally, 
Tommy Lasorda, Ron LeFlore, Kurt Bevacqua, Lance Parrish, Paul O'Neill, 
Ken Caminiti, Zack Greinke, Doug Glanville, Harold Reynolds, Dennis Martínez 
and Wally Joyner. Local MLB stars who were also part of the Indios are 
Bombo Rivera, Willie Hernández, José Guzmán, Iván Calderón, Roberto Hernández, 
Iván Rodríguez, Bobby Bonilla, Wil Cordero, Jorge Posada and José Vidro. 
Cordero was raised at the by-now razed Cócora section of town, which used 
to exist across the street from Isidoro García Baseball Stadium. In December 
2003 a panel of five local sportscasters announced their picks for an Indios 
de Mayagüez All-Time All Star Team. This selection considered candidates 
from Indios teams from the previous 65 years. Their selected team lists 
as follows: As of 2014, there has been talk among Mayaguez's sporting press 
community of updating the list sometime during the year. A comment made 
on a broadcast by David Castro (see below) gave the team a moniker: "Los 
Indios de mi pueblo" ("My hometown's Indians"). Ramón S. Olivencia, a long-time 
news anchorman for various Puerto Rican news radio stations, and who was 
also born in Mayagüez, also made a habit of mentioning the phrase instead 
of reading the team's name, whenever he had to read baseball scores from 
the previous night on his broadcasts. The phrase stuck and it is still 
in common use, long after Olivencia's passing. It is usually the reference 
in use by native "mayagüezanos" when referring to the team. The Indios 
de Mayagüez were initially sponsored by the local Cervecería India, founded 
in 1938 by local businessman Alfonso Valdés Cobián. For a while after Valdés' 
passing, the initials "AVC" were added to the left sleeve of all team uniforms, 
in honor of the team's first owner. Once the Indios moved back to the rebuilt 
Isidoro García Stadium, Valdés' picture was incorporated to the left field 
fence, along with pictures of those team players whose numbers have been 
retired. The unofficial team song for the Indios is ¡Ahí vienen los Indios!, 
a Dominican merengue recorded by the 1959 lineup of the Billo's Caracas 
Boys orchestra, led by its longtime conductor, Billo Frómeta, and augmented 
by two former Billo's bandmates, Ernesto Chapuseaux and Francisco Simó 
Damirón, who had reunited with Frómeta for the occasion. The song is usually 
played at the game's Seventh-inning stretch. The city of Mayagüez has a 
formal anthem, "Mayagüez, Mi Mayagüez", written by local music professor 
Luciano Quiñones, but before the song was commissioned as such, the city's 
unofficial theme song was (and still is) Cesar Concepción's plena A Mayagüez, 
which references the team. The song suggests that the singer will visit 
the city to "vacilar con los Indios, que en verdad echan candela" ("have 
fun with the Indios, which are really on fire lately")." A historical (yet 
unofficial) team song is the plena "El Mayagüez Invencible", which is generally 
attributed to Ceferino "Cefo" Conde, a pitcher (and baseball philosopher) 
who played for multiple PRBL teams, and who was instrumental to the Indios' 
first championship win in 1949. The plena names every single Mayagüez player 
in the 1949 team's initial lineup, along with their playing position. Mon 
Rivera, who was a successful shortstop with the Indios before becoming 
an even more successful bandleader, wrote a humorous song about an anecdote 
he experienced while he was related to the team. It makes mention of Humberto 
"Pita" Martí, one of the team's catchers. Martí was good enough as a catcher 
to deserve having his number eventually retired by the team. Apparently, 
though, his English language skills were not as good. Since the team featured 
major baseball players from the United States, interaction among players 
had to happen in English, Spanish, Spanglish, sign language or a combination 
thereof. Apparently Martí was asked "how do you feel?" before a game, to 
which he replied: "yo no juego field, lo que juego es catcher de Mayagüez" 
("I'm not a fielder, I play catcher for Mayagüez"). The joke persisted 
enough to deserve a song, "¿Cómo está Pita?" Between the late 1970s, and 
the early 2000s, the "Indio de Mayagüez" character became an unofficial 
cheerleader of the team. During the 2011-12 season the Indio made a short-lived 
comeback. The Indio, interpreted by Ervin Santana, is namely a costumed 
fan wearing a woolen poncho and feathered headdress who demands cheers 
from the audience for the local team and boos for the visitors.[12] The 
Indio then finishes his session by placing a handkerchief (or a banner 
borrowed from a fan) on one side of the Indios dugout's roof, walking to 
the opposite side, and then running and sliding towards the handkerchief 
to pick it up head-first, as if he were stealing a base.[12] At one time 
during the late 1990s, the cheerleader sled past the dugout's roof and 
landed on a nearby staircase, fracturing a leg and three ribs. After a 
long convalescence, the Indio returned to his usual chanting grounds on 
top of the stadium's first base dugout, calling for cheers wearing a cast 
and crutches. At times the Indio is allowed into the infield, runs the 
bases, and steals home plate. As of the 2013-14 season, Bompy, a cartoon 
character originally developed for the Indios de Mayaguez basketball team, 
has also made his appearance in the baseball team's games. Bompy, a mischievous 
kid, has its own Facebook page, and is a popular character among both teams' 
younger fans. The Indios de Mayagüez radio broadcast crew has had one constant 
member during the last thirty-seven years (as of 2016), radio announcer 
Arturo Soto Cardona. A native of nearby San Sebastián, Puerto Rico, Soto 
has been narrating Indios' games since 1977. Fiercely territorial as some 
Indios fans are, a common practice for many of them is to turn the volume 
down on television broadcasts featuring the Indios, and turning a radio 
set on to the official Indios radio broadcast, which is aired on station 
WYEL-AM (600 kHz) and streamcasted over the Internet. Soto's vocal inflections 
are so well recognized by fans that by just listening to his voice many 
can identify the difference between a pop-up fly and a hit before the ball 
actually lands. A former member of the broadcast team, commercial spot 
coordinator David Castro had a reputation for having attended all Indios 
games home and abroad (except for one non-local game during the early 1960s) 
since the team's inception in 1938 until his formal retirement in 2005. 
A documentary about the team, named "Los Indios de mi pueblo" and directed 
