The infield fly rule is a rule of baseball that treats certain fly balls 
as though caught, before the ball is caught and even if the infielder fails 
to catch it or drops it on purpose. The umpire's declaration of an infield 
fly means that the batter is out (and all force plays are removed) regardless 
of whether the ball is caught. The rule exists to prevent the defense from 
achieving a double play or triple play by failing to catch a ball that 
an infielder could catch with ordinary effort. The rule is limited to apply 
only in situations where this result is possible. A ball batted into the 
air subjects baserunners to a dilemma. If the ball is caught, they must 
return to their original base; if not caught, the batter becomes a runner 
and certain runners are forced to advance to the next base. Baserunners 
study the fielder and advance only far enough from the base to ensure that 
they can return safely. If a presumed catch becomes a non-catch, forced 
runners must run forward instead of back. This creates an advantage for 
the defense in intentionally failing to execute an easy catch, which the 
infield fly rule exists to remove. Under the Official Baseball Rules used 
in Major League Baseball and many lower leagues, "Infield Fly" is explained 
in the definitions of terms: Infield Fly, and rule 5.09 (Batter is out). 
The rule applies only when there are fewer than two outs, and there is 
a force play at third base (i.e., when there are runners at first and second 
base, or the bases are loaded).[1] In these situations, if a fair fly ball 
is in play, and in the umpire's judgment is catchable by an infielder with 
ordinary effort, the umpire shall call "infield fly" (or more often, "infield 
fly, batter is out") and the batter will be out[2] regardless of whether 
the ball is actually caught. Umpires typically raise the right arm straight 
up, index finger pointing up, to signal the rule is in effect. If "infield 
fly" is called and the fly ball is caught, it is treated exactly as an 
ordinary caught fly ball; the batter is out, there is no force, and the 
runners must tag up. On the other hand, if "infield fly" is called and 
the ball lands fair without being caught, the batter is still out, there 
is still no force, but the runners are not required to tag up. In either 
case, the ball is live, and the runners may advance on the play, at their 
own peril. An infield fly may be declared by any umpire on the field. The 
infield fly rule is a judgment call, as the rule states that "The judgment 
of the umpire must govern".[1] The rule directs the umpire to declare an 
infield fly immediately on determining that the play meets the criteria 
described above, solely based on the umpire's discretion. Since different 
umpires may have different definitions of what constitutes "ordinary effort," 
the rule may be applied differently depending on the umpire and game conditions.[3] 
Any fair fly ball that could be caught by an infielder with ordinary effort 
is covered by the rule, whether or not it is in the infield, and whether 
or not an infielder catches it, or even attempts to catch it. For example, 
if an infielder retreats to the outfield in an effort to catch a fly ball, 
the infield fly rule may be invoked because the ball could have been caught 
by the infielder. Similarly, infield fly may also be called if an outfielder 
runs into the infield to catch a fly ball, if it could have been caught 
by an infielder with ordinary effort. It may be helpful to think of it 
as the "infielder fly rule". Specifically, the rule states an infield fly 
call should be determined by "whether the ball could ordinarily have been 
handled by an infielder, not by some arbitrary limitation such as the grass, 
or the base lines. The umpire must rule also that a ball is an infield 
fly, even if handled by an outfielder, if, in the umpire's judgment, the 
ball could have been as easily handled by an infielder." The term "ordinary 
effort" considers all circumstances, including weather, lighting, positioning 
of the defense, and the abilities of the players involved in the play. 
A fly ball catchable with ordinary effort in Major League Baseball might 
not be in a junior high school game, due to the ability of the players 
involved. If the fly ball is near the foul lines, the umpire is to declare 
"infield fly, if fair". If the ball is not caught and ends up foul (including 
if it lands fair and then rolls foul before passing first or third base 
without being touched by a fielder), the infield fly call is canceled, 
and the play is treated as an ordinary foul ball. In contrast, if the ball 
lands foul and then rolls fair before passing first or third base without 
being touched, the infield fly takes effect and the batter is out.[1] Declarations 
of the infield fly rule are not included in the statistical summary of 
a baseball game and are not a separate category in player statistics. A 
fielder who misplays an infield fly is not charged with an error because 
the batter is out through the infield fly rule. In fact, the fielder who 
should have caught an infield fly earns a putout. But a fielder who fails 
to touch an infield fly that then rolls foul may be charged with an error 
for letting the ball roll foul; the batter is not out, and the misplay 
prolongs the batter's time at bat. The rule was first introduced in 1895 
by the National League in response to infielders intentionally dropping 
pop-ups to get multiple outs by forcing out the runners on base, who were 
pinned near their bases while the ball was in the air.[4] At that time, 
the rule only applied with one man out. The current rule came into effect 
in 1901. It was amended in 1904 to not apply to line drives, and in 1920 
to not apply to bunts.[5] In the fifth game of the 2008 World Series between 
the Tampa Bay Rays and Philadelphia Phillies at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, 
Pedro Feliz of the Phillies hit a pop-up to the right side of the infield 
with runners on first and second and one out, in strong rain and swirling 
winds, and the infield fly rule was not invoked. Umpiring crew chief Tim 
Tschida explained that "The infield fly rule requires the umpires' judgment 
to determine whether or not a ball can be caught with ordinary effort, 
and that includes wind" and that the umpire's determination was that in 
this case there was no infielder who could make the play with "ordinary 
effort".[6] In the eighth inning of the 2012 National League Wild Card 
Game between the St. Louis Cardinals and the Atlanta Braves, Andrelton 
Simmons of the Braves hit a pop-up into shallow left field with one out 
and men on first and second bases. Cardinals shortstop Pete Kozma, who 
was playing in normal position, ran out to left field to catch the ball 
while left fielder Matt Holliday, who was playing very deep in left, ran 
in to catch it as well. Although Kozma initially called to catch the ball, 
as the ball came down, he suddenly moved out of the way (apparently thinking 
Holliday was about to catch it), and the ball fell between him and Holliday. 
While it initially appeared that Simmons (the batter) had safely reached 
first base and the Braves had the bases loaded with one out, Simmons was 
called out because left field umpire Sam Holbrook had called "infield fly" 
just before the ball hit the ground, and the Braves now had runners at 
second and third with two out, instead of bases loaded with one out. The 
Braves did not score in the inning, and the Cardinals went on to win the 
game, 6–3, eliminating the Braves from the postseason. After the call, 
angry Braves fans began throwing plastic bottles and other debris onto 
the field, causing the game to be delayed for nearly 20 minutes.[7] The 
game was played by the Braves under an official protest from their manager, 
but shortly after the game, Joe Torre, MLB executive vice president for 
baseball operations, denied the protest, citing umpire's judgment. Torre 
made the ruling immediately following the game (waiving the normal 24-hour 
review period) due to the importance of the game and the quick turnaround 
time before the next playoff game.[7][8][9] The spot where the ball had 
landed was 225 feet from home plate. In the past three MLB seasons, there 
were six infield-fly rulings on balls that weren't caught, and the longest 
was measured at 178 feet, which is 47 feet less than the ball Simmons hit.[10] 
The infield fly rule is not in effect if there is no runner on second base. 
Provided the batter runs to first base, the greatest benefit the defense 
could achieve by intentionally letting the fly ball drop untouched is to 
force out the runner at second rather than the batter, resulting in a runner 
on first base either way. However, if the batter is significantly slower 
than the runner, the defense may elect to let the ball drop untouched and 
achieve the force play, replacing the runner at first base with the batter. 
Risks for the defense are that the uncaught ball may roll away from the 
fielder, and any runner on third base can try to score but has the option 
of remaining on his base. If the batter gives up on the play, the defense 
can achieve outs at second base and first base by deliberately letting 
the ball drop untouched. A related rule called the intentional drop rule 
(Rule 5.09(a)(12)) applies even when second base is unoccupied, and applies 
even when the batted ball is a line drive or a bunt that could be caught 
on the fly. This rule likewise prevents a fielder from deliberately dropping 
a ball and thereby achieving a double or triple play. If an umpire invokes 
this rule, the drop is ruled a catch, the ball is dead, and no baserunner 
may advance. The rule is not invoked when a fielder plays a ball on a bounce 
that might have been caught on the fly. For the runners, an infield fly 
is little different from an ordinary fly ball. If an infield fly is caught, 
the runners must retouch their original bases ("tag up") after the catch 
before attempting to advance. If an infield fly is not caught, no tag up 
is required and the runners may advance at their own risk. The only difference 
is that the umpire's declaration that the batter is out removes force plays 
and gives runners the option of staying on the base. The infield fly rule 
states that runners may advance "after the ball is touched". This rule 
governs the tag up if the infield fly is caught. The runner does not need 
to wait on base until the fielder achieves full control of the ball. There 
is no need to tag up at any time if the ball is dropped. There is no concept 
of tagging up under the intentional drop rule, as base advances are not 
allowed. A runner hit by an infield fly while standing on a base is also 
protected from being declared out due to interference, unless this interference 
is deemed intentional (which appeared in the rules in 1940).[5] The rulebook 
definition of Infield Fly[1] says the umpire "shall immediately declare 
'Infield Fly' for the benefit of the runners." However, sometimes they 
do not. As in the anecdote above from 2008, there may be doubt as to whether 
the ball was catchable by an infielder with ordinary effort. If not called, 
the infield fly rule is not in effect. The same Definition includes a comment 
that "The infield fly is in no sense to be considered an appeal play." 
This suggests that the batter cannot be ruled out retroactively to settle 
a debate that occurs after the play ends.[11] However, in Major League 
Baseball, the umpires are likely to correct their mistake if it leads to 
an unfair double or triple play.[12] Baserunners should learn what options 
they have, both on a routine fly out and a fly out declared an infield 
fly. Fielders should understand that declaration of the infield fly rule 
removes the force play and that a runner is only out if tagged. In adult 
baseball, a fly ball usually reaches the fielder before the batter can 
run the 90 feet to first base. However, in youth baseball, the distance 
between bases is shorter, and in some youth leagues, the infield fly rule 
is not in effect. In this case, a baserunning gambit can be used to avoid 
a double or triple play. A fast batter may reach first base before the 
pop fly reaches the fielder. If the fielder fails to catch the ball, then 
the batter runs toward second base while the runner originally on first 
base remains there. Under Rule 7.08(h), the batter is out for passing a 
preceding runner, and under Rule 7.08(c), this out removes the force so 
that other runners are able to remain on their bases.[13] The infield fly 
rule was the subject of an article in U.S. legal history. William S. Stevens 
was a law student in 1975 when he anonymously published "The Common Law 
Origins of the Infield Fly Rule" in the University of Pennsylvania Law 
Review.[14] The article was humorous but also insightful on how common 
law related to codified regulation of behavior. It has been cited in numerous 
