An infielder is a baseball player stationed at one of four defensive "infield" 
positions on the baseball field. In a game of baseball, two teams of nine 
players take turns playing offensive and defensive roles. Although there 
are many rules to baseball, in general the team playing offense tries to 
score runs by batting balls into the field that enable runners to make 
a complete circuit of the four bases. The team playing in the field tries 
to prevent runs by catching the ball before it hits the ground, by tagging 
runners with the ball while they are not touching a base, or by throwing 
the ball to first base before the batter who hit the ball can run from 
home plate to first base. There are nine defensive positions on a baseball 
field. The part of the baseball field closest to the batter (shown in the 
diagram as light brown) is known as the "infield" (as opposed to the "outfield", 
the part of the field furthest from the batter, shown in the diagram as 
green.) The infield is composed of four positions: first base (1B), second 
base (2B), third base (3B) and shortstop (SS). Generally, the first three 
have responsibility for plays at their respective bases, although the shortstop 
often shares responsibility for second base with the second baseman. Each 
position requires a different set of skills. A player who lacks the offensive 
or defensive skills needed to be a member of the starting lineup, but who 
has the various skills needed to play two or more infield positions competently 
and therefore can be called upon to come off the bench and fill a variety 
of defensive roles is called a utility infielder. The second baseman tries 
to field balls hit between first and second base. The shortstop does the 
same between second and third base. Once fielded, the balls must be thrown 
to the first baseman before the batter can reach first base. This requires 
speed to get to hit balls before they pass beyond reach, dexterity to successfully 
field the balls, and agility to field the balls in a position that will 
allow a strong throw to first base. Second basemen and shortstops—known 
as the middle infielders—also share responsibility for tagging runners 
who are attempting to steal second base. Because a shortstop has a longer 
throw to make to first base, he must reach the ball faster and throw harder 
than the second baseman. For this reason, the shortstop must have the best 
fielding skills of any infielder. Because of the spectrum of skills required 
by a middle infielder, emphasis is usually put on defensive skills rather 
than offensive ability—good defensive skills and a mediocre bat are often 
considered more important than a good bat and poor defensive skills. The 
third baseman primarily fields balls hit and bunted down the third base 
line, but can also attempt to reach balls hit between second and third 
base. Although the third baseman does not need to cover as great a range 
as the shortstop or second baseman, the position requires greater anticipation 
and quicker reflexes, since the third baseman may be standing only 90 feet 
from the batter and sometimes much less; thus, he has much less time to 
react to hit balls than the shortstop or second baseman. The third baseman 
must also have a very strong arm, since the throw from his position to 
first base is the longest on the infield. The first baseman is largely 
responsible for keeping one foot on first base while catching throws from 
the other three infielders before the batter can reach first base. Because 
these throws are often hurried and thus off-target, the first baseman must 
have the ability to cleanly field thrown balls that hit the ground before 
they reach first base. Since the first baseman mostly stands close to his 
base, his mobility and throwing skills do not need to be high; good hitters 
who are slow of foot are often placed at first base. In some cases, an 
aging third baseman or outfielder who has lost some speed but is still 
a good hitter will be moved to first base to keep his bat in the line-up. 
