 California The Inland Empire (I.E.) is a region in Southern California. 
The term may be used to refer to the cities of western Riverside County 
and southwestern San Bernardino County. A generally broader definition 
will include eastern Los Angeles County cities in the Pomona Valley, and/or 
the desert community of Palm Springs as well as its surrounding area; a 
much larger definition will include all of San Bernardino and Riverside 
counties.[2] The U.S. Census Bureau-defined Riverside-San Bernardino-Ontario 
metropolitan area, which comprises Riverside County and San Bernardino 
County, California, covers more than 27,000 square miles (70,000 km2) and 
has a population of approximately 4 million.[3] Most of the area's population 
is located in southwestern San Bernardino County and northwestern Riverside 
County. At the end of the 19th century, the Inland Empire was a major center 
of agriculture, including citrus, dairy, and wine-making. However, agriculture 
declined through the 20th century, and since the 1970s a rapidly growing 
population, fed by families migrating in search of affordable housing, 
has led to more residential, industrial, and commercial development. The 
term "Inland Empire" is documented to have been used by the Riverside Enterprise 
newspaper (now The Press-Enterprise) as early as April 1914.[4] Developers 
in the area likely introduced the term to promote the region and to highlight 
the area's unique features. The "Inland" part of the name is derived from 
the region's location, about 60 miles (97 km) inland from Los Angeles and 
the Pacific Ocean. Originally, this area was called the Orange Empire due 
to the acres of citrus groves that once extended from Pasadena to Redlands 
during the first half of the 20th century.[2][5] The Inland Empire is a 
nebulous region, but is defined as the cities of western Riverside County 
and the cities of southwestern San Bernardino County; adjacent to the Los 
Angeles metropolitan area. A generally broader definition will include 
the desert community of Palm Springs and its surrounding area, and a much 
larger definition will include all of San Bernardino and Riverside counties.[2] 
What is now known as the Inland Empire was inhabited for thousands of years, 
prior to the late eighteenth century, by the Tongva, Serrano, and Cahuilla 
Native Americans. With Spanish colonization and the subsequent Mexican 
era the area was sparsely populated at the land grant Ranchos, considering 
it unsuitable for missions.[citation needed] The first American settlers, 
a group of Mormon pioneers, arrived over the Cajon Pass in 1851. Although 
the Mormons left a scant six years later, recalled to Salt Lake City by 
Brigham Young during the church's Utah War with the US government, other 
settlers soon followed. The entire landmass of Southern California was 
subdivided according to the San Bernardino Meridian, which was first plotted 
as part of the Public Land Survey System in November 1852, by Col. Henry 
Washington. Base Line road, a major thoroughfare, today runs from Highland 
to San Dimas, intermittently along the absolute baseline coordinates plotted 
by Col. Washington.[6] San Bernardino County was first formed out of parts 
of Los Angeles County on April 26, 1853. While the partition once included 
what is today most of Riverside County, the region is not as monolithic 
as it may sound. Rivalries between Colton, Redlands, Riverside and San 
Bernardino over the location of the county seat in the 1890s caused each 
of them to form their own civic communities, each with their own newspapers. 
On August 14, 1893, the state Senate allowed Riverside County to form out 
of land previously in San Bernardino and San Diego counties, after rejecting 
a bill for Pomona to split from L.A. County and become the seat of what 
would have been called San Antonio County.[7] The arrival of rail and the 
importation of navel and Valencia orange trees in the 1870s touched off 
explosive growth, with the area quickly becoming a major center for citrus 
production.[8][9][10] This agricultural boom continued with the arrival 
of water from the Colorado River and the rapid growth of Los Angeles in 
the early 20th century, with dairy farming becoming another staple industry. 
In 1926, Route 66 (now known as Foothill Boulevard and Interstate 215) 
came through the northern parts of the area, bringing a stream of tourists 
and migrants to the region. Still, the region endured as the key part of 
the Southern California "citrus belt" until the end of World War II, when 
a new generation of real-estate developers bulldozed acres of agricultural 
land to build suburbs.[8] The precursor to the San Bernardino Freeway, 
the Ramona Expressway, was built in 1944, and further development of the 
freeway system in the area facilitated the expansion of suburbs and human 
migration throughout the Inland Empire and Southern California. The region 
experienced significant economic and population growth through most of 
the latter half of the 20th century. In the early 1990s, the loss of the 
region's military bases and reduction of nearby defense industries due 
to the end of the Cold War lead to a local economic downturn.[11][12] The 
region as a whole had partially recovered from this downturn by the start 
of the 21st century through the development of warehousing, shipping, logistics 
and retail industries, primarily centered around Ontario.[13] However, 
these industries have been heavily affected by the Great Recession.[14] 
Physical boundaries between Los Angeles and the Inland Empire from west 
to east are the San Jose Hills splitting the San Gabriel Valley from the 
Pomona Valley, leading to the urban populations centered in the San Bernardino 
Valley.[15] From the south to north, the Santa Ana Mountains physically 
divide Orange County from San Bernardino and Riverside Counties. The Santa 
Rosa Mountains, as well as the Southern California portion of the Sonoran 
Desert, physically divide Riverside County from San Diego County.[16] Some 
definitions for the I.E. consist of the Chino Valley, Coachella Valley, 
Cucamonga Valley, Menifee Valley, Murrieta Valley, Perris Valley, San Jacinto 
Valley, Temecula Valley, Pomona Valley, and Victor Valley.[citation needed] 
Elevations range from 11,499 ft (3,505 m) at the top of the San Gorgonio 
Mountain to −220 ft (−67 m) at the Salton Sea. The San Bernardino mountains 
are home to the San Bernardino National Forest and the resort communities 
of Big Bear Lake, Lake Arrowhead, and Running Springs. The Santa Ana River 
extends from Mt. San Gorgonio for nearly 100 miles (160 km) through San 
Bernardino, Riverside, and Orange counties before it eventually spills 
into the Pacific Ocean at Newport Beach and Huntington Beach. While temperatures 
are generally cool to cold in the mountains, it can get hot in the valleys. 
In the desert resort of Palm Springs, near Joshua Tree National Park, summer 
temperatures can reach well over 110 °F (43 °C). Unlike most metropolitan 
areas that have grown up around a central city, the Inland Empire has no 
one main focus city. Major cities in the region include Riverside, San 
Bernardino, Rancho Cucamonga, and Ontario. Suburban sprawl spreads out 
to form a unified/built up connection with the Los Angeles metropolitan 
area. Further development is steadily, if not heavily, encroaching past 
the mountains into the outlying desert areas. The Inland Empire borders 
both Los Angeles and Orange counties. Freeways in Southern California are 
heavily used, but this comprehensive freeway system has made travel between 
the Inland Empire and these two counties generally easy; especially to 
and from Los Angeles County. The Inland Empire has also been referred to 
as the 909, after one of the region's most used area codes.[2][17] In 2004, 
because of growing demand for telephone numbers, most of Western Riverside 
County was granted a new area code, 951.[17] The region of Palm Springs, 
Palm Desert, and Indio, among others in the area, are located much further 
east in Riverside County (the distance between the city of San Bernardino 
and Palm Springs is approximately 45 miles). These cities are sometimes 
considered a sub-region of the Inland Empire that is called the Coachella 
Valley. This is to help differentiate them from the urbanized area among 
the cities of San Bernardino-Riverside. There is no universally accepted 
definition for the boundaries of the Inland Empire region. Some sources 
such as the Los Angeles Times[18][19][20][21][22] have referred to Riverside 
County and San Bernardino County as the Inland Empire, mirroring the Riverside-San 
Bernardino-Ontario metropolitan area. Some residents of certain areas within 
the three counties, such as Twentynine Palms, the Coachella and Temecula 
valleys, consider themselves separate from the IE.[2] The California Travel 
and Tourism Commission (CTTC), a not-for-profit, nongovernmental[23] entity 
that promotes tourism in California,[24] divides the state into several 
regions for its own purposes. The CTTC defines the Inland Empire as being 
bounded by Los Angeles County and Orange County on the west, San Diego 
County on the south, as far north as the Victor Valley area, and as far 
east as Idyllwild in the San Jacinto Mountains.[25] The state of California's 
official website links to the CTTC's map with the description "Map of the 
Inland Empire region".[26] Other sources, including Kevin Starr, former 
state librarian of California, include eastern Los Angeles County cities 
in the Pomona Valley which are Claremont, Pomona, La Verne, San Dimas, 
and Diamond Bar within the definition of the Inland Empire.[27] Other sources 
also include cities in Los Angeles County within the boundaries.[28][29][verification 
needed][30] Inexpensive land prices (compared to Los Angeles and Orange 
Counties), a large supply of vacant land, and a transport network where 
many highways and railroads intersect have made the Inland Empire a major 
shipping hub.[31] Some of the nation's largest manufacturing companies 
have chosen the Inland Empire for their distribution facilities including 
Toyota Motor Corporation's North American Parts and Logistics Distribution 
(NAPLD) center in Ontario and APL Logistics in Rancho Cucamonga. Whirlpool 
Corporation recently leased a 1,700,000-square-foot (160,000 m2) distribution 
center in Perris that is larger than 31 football fields and one of the 
biggest warehouses in the country.[32] These centers operate as part of 
the system that transports finished goods and materials from the ports 
of Los Angeles and Long Beach to destinations to the north and east such 
as Las Vegas, Phoenix, and Denver. More than 80 percent of the state's 
imported cargo is shipped through the Los Angeles/Inland Empire Corridor.[33] 
However, with the global economic downturn, industrial vacancies have doubled 
from 6.2 percent in 2007 to 12.4 percent to 2008. In San Bernardino and 
Redlands, vacancies are as high as 22 percent.[34] Although the region's 
large industries have been affected by the Great Recession, the Inland 
Empire is projected to remain California's fastest-growing region for some 
time to come.[35] The area is also projected to remain one of the least 
educated areas of the state with the lowest average in annual wages in 
the country.[35] A 2006 study of salaries in 51 metropolitan areas of the 
country ranked the Inland Empire second to last, with an average annual 
wage of $36,924.[35] However, inexpensive land prices and innovative institutional 
support networks have attracted some small businesses and technology startups 
into the area.[14] While urbanization continues to cut into agricultural 
lands, the Inland Empire still produces substantial crops. Although 10,000 
acres (40 km2) of irrigated land was lost between 2002 and 2004, agriculture 
still brought in more than $1.6 billion in revenues to the two-county region 
in 2006.[9] Being a MSA, aggregate GDP figures are reported by the Bureau 
of Economic Analysis annually. The Inland Empire ranks 25th in the nation 
with a 2011 GDP was $109.8 billion, roughly a third of San Francisco-Oakland-Fremont, 
CA MSA despite their close population numbers. Per capita GDP was $25,993.34 
in 2011, nearly half among the nation's top 50 Gross Metropolitan Product.[36] 
Due to housing crisis, the GDP fell from $114.8 billion in 2007, despite 
a heavy influx of residents. The unemployment rate in the Inland Empire 
has been consistently over the national average since 2007. 10.4 percent 
of Inland residents were unemployed as of August 2013, compared to the 
national rate of 7.3 percent. Due to the high unemployment and housing 
foreclosure rates, a higher percentage of Inland residents rely on public 
assistance. According to the Press-Enterprise, "twelve percent of Riverside 
County and 17 percent of San Bernardino County residents used food stamps 
in January 2012," as compared to "11 percent of those living in Los Angeles 
County, 8 percent of San Diego County residents and 7 percent of Orange 
County residents."[37] Since the 1950s, the area has changed from a rural 
to a suburban environment. The region now comprises numerous cities known 
as bedroom communities that are suburban cities to Los Angeles. Affordable 
home ownership is the primary motivation behind the growth in these Inland 
Empire cities as homes in the region are generally less expensive than 
comparable homes in Los Angeles and Orange counties. The steady rise in 
population and the demand for housing has led to a dramatic increase in 
the building of single-family homes on parcels of 0.25 acres (1,000 m2) 
or more, as opposed to the construction of high-density development such 
as multi-story apartment or condominium buildings. This low-density development 
has caused sprawl in the Inland Empire; a commute between Beaumont and 
Ontario is approximately 43 miles. Much of the vacant land is being developed. 
Land that was used for agriculture is now being sold by owners for conversion 
to shopping centers, industrial warehouses, etc. Due to the lack of the 
Inland Empire having just one central city, and the smaller geographical 
footprint that suburban cities tend to have, this continuous development 
has become seemingly unplanned suburban sprawl as local interest and zoning 
laws may quickly change from one city to the next city.[38] The Inland 
Empire was declared the nation's worst example of sprawl according to a 
study by Smart Growth America in 2002.[39][40] During the housing bubble 
collapse of the late 2000s, foreclosures rose by 3,500 percent.[41] In 
2010, the area ranked fourth in the nation in the number of foreclosures, 
with one filing for every 133 households.[42] The problem of abandoned 
homes became so great that the city of Perris initiated a program to paint 
the brown lawns of abandoned homes green as a way to cut down on the appearance 
of blight.[43] Retailing in the area has increased to try to keep abreast 
with the growing suburban population. The region is home to several large 
shopping malls, including the Promenade Shops at Dos Lagos and the Crossings 
in Corona, Ontario Mills in Ontario, Promenade Mall in Temecula, Galleria 
At Tyleer in Riverside, Riverside Plaza, Canyon Crossings in Riverside, 
The Shoppes at Chino Hills in Chino Hills, Moreno Valley Mall in Moreno 
Valley, Victoria Gardens in Rancho Cucamonga and the Inland Center mall 
in San Bernardino. In fiscal year 2006, retail sales in San Bernardino 
County grew by 11.9 percent to $31.2 billion, while sales in Riverside 
County were up 11.3 percent to $29.6 billion.[44] The result of this ongoing 
development has resulted in greater homeownership for the region. Although 
the region saw an uptick in jobs over the past decade, it is not a heavy 
employment center, and many residents commute to Los Angeles and Orange 
counties for their work. With a lack of substantial public transportation 
in the Greater Los Angeles Area, this has led to traffic congestion and 
degradation in air quality for the Inland Empire.[45] The solution to these 
problems is not simple. The presence of so many city governments within 
the Inland Empire, which often have different 'visions' for their own municipalities, 
means that two cities in the region rarely agree on a solution; just as 
common, they may have unequal means for implementing one even if they were 
to agree. Having no regional-wide governmental planning organization may 
undermine any solution that could be proposed. Lastly, the pace at which 
development occurs (fast) versus the ability of government to respond to 
changes (slow) means that it could easily take years, if not decades, for 
a viable solution (such as new roads, pollution controls, etc.) to go into 
effect.[46] Air pollution, or suspended particulate matter locally generated 
from the increased number of automobiles in the area, from point sources 
such as factories, dust carried into the air by construction activity, 
and the contribution of similar pollutants from the Los Angeles area has 
regularly caused the Inland Empire to be at, or near, the bottom of many 
air quality ratings. In 2004, the EPA rated the San Bernardino-Riverside 
area as having the worst particulate air pollution in the United States,[47] 
(although the San Joaquin Valley in central California had the worst overall 
air pollution).[citation needed] Air pollution in the Los Angeles region 
is still an issue, although improvements have been made over the years. 
But the problem is exacerbated in the Inland Empire, which is surrounded 
by mountains on the north and the east. Prevailing winds move bad air eastward 
from Los Angeles, but once the pollution reaches the Inland Empire it cannot 
be carried further east as it becomes trapped by the mountains surrounding 
the region. Water pollution has also been found in the Santa Ana River 
and Cajon wash, and pollutants from the March Air Reserve Base and Stringfellow 
Acid Pits have contaminated groundwater in parts of Riverside County.[16] 
In 1997, perchlorate, a chemical used to produce explosives, was discovered 
to be seeping into the groundwater under Rialto in a plume that continues 
to grow. In 2007, the Rialto City council petitioned the United States 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for Superfund status to clean up 
the origin site. The sites comprising March Air Reserve Base, Norton Air 
Force Base and the Stringfellow Acid Pits have already been classified 
as EPA Superfund toxic waste sites.[48] Traffic congestion problems on 
the roadways, as with elsewhere in Southern California, is the result of 
the demand for driving exceeding the available capacity, especially on 
area freeways.[citation needed] Many of the existing freeways were completed 
in the late 1970s, with the exception of the segment of the Foothill Freeway, 
State Route 210 (SR 210) between San Dimas and San Bernardino completed 
in July 2007. New freeways or highways "fix-ups" are being planned, such 
as the expansion of the length of the 215 freeway around Inland Center 
Mall. However, other problems exist, one being the jobs vs. housing imbalance. 
The Inland Empire population grew as a result of affordable housing, at 
least relative to the rest of Southern California. But most of the higher 
paying jobs are located in Los Angeles, San Diego and Orange counties. 
Thus, many workers must drive daily from the Inland Empire to their jobs 
in these counties -sometimes up to two hours each direction, and even longer 
if by public transportation. As the population increases, the problem is 
most certainly going to get worse. Forbes magazine recently ranked the 
area first in its list of most unhealthy commutes in the United States, 
beating out every other metropolitan area in the country, as Inland area 
drivers breathe the unhealthiest air and have the highest rate of fatal 
auto accidents per capita.[49] According to a 1999 report by the Surface 
Transportation Policy Project, the Inland Empire leads in fatal crashes 
caused by road rage.[50][51] The theft of copper, brass and other metals 
from highway and road fixtures has also led to decreased public safety 
on IE roads and freeways.[52] Gas siphoning has also been noted as a problem 
for vehicles left unattended in the region.[53] Unlike many major metropolitan 
areas, the Inland Empire has minimal public transportation. When combined 
with the large physical size of the region, more people use automobiles 
for convenient travel. Less than five percent of the IE's 1,249,224 working-age 
residents use public transportation to get to work.[54] Omnitrans is the 
largest bus agency in San Bernardino County, while the Riverside Transit 
Agency is the largest in Riverside County. Currently, some of Omnitrans' 
bus routes run 1–2 hours apart, and some routes stop service in the early 
evening or may not run on weekends. The metropolitan area's first rapid 
transit line, a new bus rapid transit system, launched in April 2014. The 
new line, dubbed San Bernardino Express (sbX), offers rapid transit service 
that functions just like light-rail with center running stations, designated 
sbX lanes and passengers purchasing tickets prior to boarding. Stations 
are approximately one mile apart with its northern terminus in Verdemont 
and southern terminus in Loma Linda's VA hospital, passing through downtown 
San Bernardino and the city's Hospitality Lane Business District.[55] Metrolink 
is a commuter rail system serving Southern California; it consists of seven 
lines and 55 stations operating on 388.2 miles (624.7 km) of rail network.[1] 
It travels up to 79 miles per hour (127 km/h) and up to 90 mph on sections 
of the Orange County line. The Metrolink commuter rail system provides 
train daily service from San Bernardino to Downtown Los Angeles (Busiest 
route of the system) 91/Perris Valley Line From Perris to Los Angeles Riverside 
Line providing weekday commuter service to Los Angeles. Inland Empire-Orange 
County Line from San Bernardino to Oceanside in San Diego County Two commercial 
airports serve the Inland Empire. Ontario Airport (ONT) is near the Los 
Angeles area. Further east in Riverside or San Bernardino counties is the 
Palm Springs Airport (PSP). Other airports in the Greater Los Angeles area 
include Los Angeles (LAX), Burbank (BUR), Long Beach (LGB), and Santa Ana 
(SNA) . There are also several general aviation airports across the Bi-County 
region. The region is making some progress in developing dedicated bicycle 
commuter and recreation trails. The largest of these, the Santa Ana River 
bicycle path, currently connects Corona to Huntington Beach, and is eventually 
projected to stretch for 84 miles all the way to Redlands when completed 
in 20 years.[56] A shorter trail exists along the former path of the Pacific 
Electric Railway from Claremont to Fontana.[57] The population of the Greater 
Los Angeles area (which includes the Inland Empire) is about 18 million 
people according to the 2010 United States Census, and is the second largest 
metropolitan region in the country. The Metropolitan Statistical Area population 
of the Inland Empire (Riverside-San Bernardino-Ontario, CA Metropolitan 
Statistical Area) onto itself is over 4.2 million people and is the 13th 
largest metropolitan area in the United States. According to the 2000 U.S. 
Census, it is the fastest growing area in the state. Between 1990 and 2000, 
Riverside and San Bernardino counties added 700,000 to their population 
totals, an increase of 26 percent.[54] Between 2000 and 2010 Inland Empire's 
population expanded by 970,000 or 30 percent. According to census bureau's 
2005–2007 estimates 61.8 percent of the population was White (40.4 percent 
White Non-Hispanic), 7.5 percent Black, 5.7 percent Asian and 25.0 percent 
of other or mixed race. 43.9 percent were Hispanic of any race. 21.9 percent 
of the population was foreign born. The Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention reports that in 2006, 33.1 percent of people in the Greater 
San Bernardino Area were overweight, and 30.8 percent were obese. Forbes 
magazine ranks the area as the fourth fattest in the country. A substantial 
majority of residents (76.6 percent), last comparatively surveyed in 2001, 
rated their respective counties as good places to live. Over 81 percent 
of Riverside County residents indicated that their county is a very good 
or fairly good place to live, while about 72 percent of residents in San 
Bernardino County felt the same way. Survey respondents cited "nice living 
area," "good climate," and "affordable housing" as the top positive factors 
in assessing their respective communities. Smog was by far the most important 
negative factor affecting respondents’ ratings in both counties, while 
traffic was the 2nd highest concern in Riverside County and crime the 2nd 
highest concern among San Bernardino County residents.[58] Since the 1970s, 
large numbers of African-American and additionally, Latino and some Asian-American 
residents from the Los Angeles-Orange County and San Diego metro areas 
moved to the Inland Empire region. Large Black communities can be found 
around San Bernardino (Fontana and Rialto) and Riverside (Moreno Valley 
and Perris), where Latinos became majorities in and around those cities. 
This is also true in the Mojave Desert and Coachella Valley portions.[citation 
needed] While the region as a whole had traditionally leaned more Republican 
than the rest of California, newer residents are less likely to identify 
with the Republican party than longer-term residents (36 percent to 42 
percent), and the total number of residents identifying with the Democrats 
(34 percent) now slightly edges over the number identifying with the Republican 
party (33 percent). In fact, in the 2008 presidential election, Democratic 
candidate Barack Obama carried both Riverside and San Bernardino counties, 
becoming only the second Democrat to carry both counties since Lyndon Johnson 
in 1964. In 2012, Obama repeated this feat and again carried both counties. 
Non-Hispanic Whites and non-Hispanic Blacks have the highest participation 
rates for nearly every type of political activity, while Latinos and Asian 
Americans lag significantly behind those groups in terms of volunteerism 
and organizational membership. However, the 2006 immigration protests have 
significantly boosted political participation among Latinos.[59] 78 percent 
of Inland residents view themselves as Christians. 39 percent identify 
as Roman Catholic, 14 percent as Protestant, and 25 percent as some other 
type of Christian. (36 percent of total Inland Christians view themselves 
as "born again".) 1 percent of the population are Jewish, 6 percent belong 
to some other religion, and 14 percent profess no religion. 27 percent 
of Inland residents attend some form of religious service once a week, 
14 percent attend more than once a week, 15 percent once a month, and 14 
percent only attend services on major religious holidays.[59][60] Many 
faiths and denominations are found and represented in the area. The Roman 
Catholic parishes in the region belong to the church's Diocese of San Bernardino.[61] 
Mormons and Seventh-day Adventists have communities in the towns of Loma 
Linda and Redlands near San Bernardino. Mormons also have congregations 
in the High Desert region.[citation needed] Seventh-day Adventists operate 
Loma Linda University.[62] The Inland Empire has a Jewish community, and 
additionally a Jewish American community is in and around Sun City which 
was later incorporated as the City of Menifee. According to the United 
Jewish Citizens of the Desert, the Coachella Valley has an estimated 20,000 
American Jews, one of California's largest Jewish communities, as a result 
of being a major retirement destination.[63] While the crime index in Riverside 
and Ontario tends slightly over the state average, San Bernardino has a 
crime index consistently near or over twice that of the national average.[64][65][66][67] 
Reflecting nationwide trends, violent crime in the region overall declined 
or remained consistent in 2009, despite the recession. In the city of Riverside, 
10 homicides occurred in 2005, down from 24 in 2003, its highest total 
since 2003. All but three cases resulted in arrests. In San Bernardino, 
by contrast, 58 killings occurred in 2005, but only a third of cases in 
San Bernardino led to arrests, due to a lack of witness cooperation in 
that city.[68] Latino gangs have been active in the region since the area's 
citrus days while a continual migration of African American gangs from 
LA has flowed into the area since the Watts Riots.[7][69] The increased 
diversity in the region between 1990 and 2000 is also associated with a 
20 percent increase in hate crime in the same period, mostly ascribed to 
increased gang activity.[70][71] According to data from the FBI's Uniform 
Crime Reporting program, taken together, Riverside and San Bernardino counties 
showed a total of 51,237 crimes reported to county police/sheriffs (but 
not to city or other agencies) in 2006; this combined total exceeded the 
totals for all other California counties – considered individually – except 
for Sacramento.[72] The region has also been noted as a center of methamphetamine 
production.[73] The Riverside and San Bernardino county sheriffs' departments 
busted 635 meth labs in 2000; law enforcement has driven most of the meth 
production industry to Mexico since 2007, but many of the homes discovered 
to have been used as meth labs before 2006 have since been sold on the 
market before California law required rigorous decontamination, leading 
to a legacy of health hazards for unsuspecting renters and home-buyers 
in the area.[74] In 2016 federal crime statistics, San Bernardino was ranked 
the most dangerous city in California.[75] There is a trend of lower educational 
attainment in the IE, which starts early. Only 37 percent of 3- and 4-year-olds 
in the region are enrolled in pre-school, with only one school in the region 
for every 343 children, as compared to 48 percent enrollment in San Diego 
County. Thirty-five percent of the IE's ninth graders do not graduate from 
high school, and only 37 percent of its college age residents enroll in 
a post-secondary education program of some sort. Only 24 percent of the 
IE's adult residents have attained a college degree or better. Twenty-five 
percent do not possess a high school diploma.[54] According to past CSUSB 
President Al Karnig, "We have a very low college attendance rate that is 
scantly above half of what the average is in other states. We have only 
have about 20 percent college graduates in the Inland Empire while the 
average in other states is 38 percent."[76][77] 21 inland area high schools 
rank in the top 100 in California for producing dropouts.[78] Of Inland 
Empire residents 25 years and over in 2004, 44.4 percent of Asians had 
bachelor's or higher degrees, and nearly 70 percent had at least attended 
college. 21.3 percent of Blacks had a bachelor's degree or higher, and 
65.2 percent had either a community degree or had attended college. 22.8 
percent of Whites had a bachelor's degree or higher, and 60.8 percent had 
attended college. Of Hispanics, 6.9 percent had a bachelor's or higher 
degree, and 30.2 percent attended college.[79] Among students transferring 
from Inland community colleges to private schools in 2004–05, the most 
frequent choice was the University of Phoenix.[80] While the Inland Empire 
led the state in job-growth with 275,000 new jobs between 1990 and 2000, 
most are in comparatively low-tech fields. San Bernardino and Riverside 
counties are primarily host to service and manufacturing- or warehousing-oriented 
industries. Food and administrative services employ the most people in 
the Inland Empire, while for the state of California, the top industries 
are in administrative services and professional, scientific and hi-tech-oriented 
fields. 79.8% of the IE's job growth from 1990 to 2003 was in service-sector 
jobs.[81] Low-wage industries are abundant in the IE, and the area's high-tech 
and professional industries pay less than in other regions of California. 
As many as one-third of working adults commute out of the 27,000-square-mile 
(70,000 km2) region to find work, the highest proportion of any area in 
the country. Adding to gridlock, fewer than 5% of the IE's 1,249,224 working-age 
residents use public transportation to get to work each day. 14.5% carpool, 
while 79.7% typically drive alone to work in their cars.[54] In 2007, the 
region had an unemployment rate of 6.1%, while overall jobless claims in 
California were at 5.4% and 4.4% nationally.[82] In 2008, unemployment 
in the area increased to 9.5%, at a time when the state average was 8.2% 
and the national average approximately 6.5%.[83] Unemployment reached an 
all-time high of 15% in 2010, second in the nation only to Detroit among 
metropolitan areas with populations over 1 million.[84] The Inland Empire 
sits adjacent to the San Bernardino Mountains. The mountains are popular 
for hiking or just having a relaxing drive.[citation needed] Lake Arrowhead 
and Big Bear are just some of the lakes located in the mountains. Lake 
Arrowhead becomes very popular in the summertime, while Big Bear becomes 
popular in the winter for skiing and snowboarding activities. Various locations 
in the Inland Empire provide venues for cultural performances and entertainment.[85] 
The Victoria Gardens Cultural Center, which is owned and operated by the 
City of Rancho Cucamonga, opened in the Fall of 2006 providing theatre, 
concerts and family entertainment to the region. The San Manuel Amphitheater 
in San Bernardino's Devore neighborhood is the nation's largest outdoor 
amphitheater.[citation needed] San Bernardino's "Route 66 Rendezvous (the 
largest classical carshow in the US)," an annual street fair and classic 
car show, draws a half-million people from around the world.[86] The Palm 
Springs Aerial Tramway in Palm Springs is a popular attraction, rising 
to more than 8500 feet. Established bands from the IE include Alien Ant 
Farm, The Bellrays, and the Voodoo Glow Skulls, from Riverside, and Cracker 
from Redlands, and The Mountain Goats From Chino. House music artist DJ 
Lynnwood got his start at the age of ten spinning records at KUOR-FM in 
Redlands. Local hip-hop artists such as Saint Dog, Suga Free, 40 Glocc, 
Young Noble from the Outlawz, Raje, Noa James, The Faze, J.J. Fad, and 
A Lighter Shade of Brown have brought about some attention to the growing 
rap community in and around the area. A number of artists associated with 
the Palm Desert Scene have forged a new genre, "Desert rock". A Danish 
record label, Musikministeriet, recently opened up an office in Redlands 
in hopes of further cultivating the IE music scene.[87] Frank Zappa performed 
in Upland on Foothill Boulevard during the early 1960s where he played 
shows on a makeshift stage for college crowds. Zappa also purchased Pal 
Recording Studio on Archibald Avenue in Rancho Cucamonga where the Surfaris 
had recorded the surf music classic "Wipe Out." He dubbed it Studio Z and 
began making recordings which eventually led to the founding of Zappa's 
group, The Mothers of Invention. Up until his death in December 2012, singer 
Ray Collins of the Mothers of Invention lived in the area. Zappa mentions 
the Inland Empire in the song "Billy the Mountain." From the late 80s until 
the late 90s, many up-and-coming musical acts, such as Rage Against the 
Machine, Blink-182 and No Doubt cut their teeth playing venues in Riverside.[88] 
However, these historic venues (Spanky's Cafe, and the De Anza Theatre) 
have since been closed and converted to other purposes. The Barn at UCR 
was closed as a music venue for 10 years but beginning in October 2008 
KUCR Radio 88.3 FM, ASPB The Associated Student Program Board with funding 
from UCR Housing began having a free concert series once a week during 
the school quarter. Emerging music venues in the IE include the Showcase 
Theatre in Corona (recently closed), Red Planet Records in Riverside, the 
Vault in Redlands, the Buffalo Inn and The Wire in Upland, the Twins Club 
in Rancho Cucamonga, the Press Restaurant in Claremont, the Glass House 
in Pomona, Back To The Grind Coffee Shop in Riverside, Liam's Irish Pub 
in Colton, and CommonGround Soundstage in Riverside.[89] Orchestras in 
the IE include the Redlands Symphony, which performs at the University 
of Redlands, the Riverside County Philharmonic, which performs at the Riverside 
Municipal Auditorium, the San Bernardino Symphony, which performs at the 
California Theatre, and the Victor Valley Symphony, which performs at Victor 
Valley College. Theatrical Arts International is housed at the California 
Theatre as well. With the largest subscriber base in the Inland Empire, 
Theatrical Arts International presents the largest caliber tours available 
including such blockbusters as Cats, Hairspray, Mamma Mia, and Miss Saigon. 
There are many other large theater programs in the community. The Riverside 
Fox Theater, also known as the Fox Performing Arts Center, was built in 
1929, and is a Spanish Colonial Revival style building in the heart of 
downtown Riverside, California. The theater is the centerpiece of Riverside's 
Arts & Culture initiative and underwent a major renovation and restoration 
to become a regional performing arts facility. Renovation was completed 
in the Fall 2009, with a grand-reopening in January 2010. At Chaffey High 
School in Ontario, they have a very large theater program that puts on 
shows in the fall and in the spring on one of the largest High School stages 
in the Inland Empire. The Inland Empire Harmony Carousel Chorus provides 
music in Barbershop Quartet productions.[90] The Inland Empire is home 
to numerous minor league baseball, basketball teams, and one ice hockey 
team based in Ontario. The Inland Empire team with the most championships 
is the Inland Empire 66ers of San Bernardino, who won their most recent 
championship in 2013.[91][92] The Auto Club Speedway, located in Fontana, 
opened in 1997. It contains an oval, a road course, and a dragstrip for 
auto racing. The Speedway is located approximately 2 miles (3.2 km) from 
the former Ontario Motor Speedway site. The Riverside International Raceway, 
another defunct motorsport venue, was located about 7 miles (11 km) east 
of Riverside. The Inland Empire is served by four major local newspapers: 
There is also an Inland Empire edition of the Los Angeles Times. For the 
segments of the Inland Empire surrounding San Bernardino and Riverside 
cities, regional newspapers include: The Inland Empire is ranked 26th (June 
2008) in the national radio market as a stand-alone market. When combined 
with the Greater Los Angeles Area, it is part of the second largest radio 
market.[93] Due to the various mountain ranges including San Bernardino, 
San Gabriel, and Idyllwild, it may be difficult to receive a single station 
throughout the entire Inland Empire area without interference. While the 
Inland Empire has television channels licensed to their cities, only PBS 
member station KVCR-TV broadcasts directly to the Inland Empire. The other 
channels broadcast to the greater Southern California market. The Inland 
Empire's source for most of its television is Los Angeles. The southern 
section of the Inland Empire may have San Diego television as their main 
source. In some areas just east of Yucaipa, primary television coverage 
is from the Palm Springs market. While there are no large film production 
companies or studios based in the Inland Empire, on-location shoots accounted 
for a total economic impact of $65.2 million in the two-county region in 
2006.[94] From 1994 to 2005, filming accounted for over a billion dollars 
($1,228,977,456) in total revenues spent in the area. Some famous films 
shot in the Inland Empire include Executive Decision, U Turn, Erin Brockovich, 
and The Fast and the Furious.[95] While the David Lynch film Inland Empire 
is named after the region, no scenes were actually shot in the Inland Empire.[2] 
Internet media and blogs are quickly gaining traction in the Inland Empire 
as newspaper readership has been falling. Some entertainment blogs include 
Things To Do Inland Empire,[96] DiscoverIE.com,[97] JooseBoxx.com,[98] 
InlandDaily.com,[99] and InlandEmpire.com.[100] Politics has also received 
coverage on the web, with iepolitics.com providing an outlet for political 
bloggers.[101] Ann Lerner, Albuquerque's film liaison, told the L.A. Times 
about the AMC cable TV series Breaking Bad producers wanted to film the 
series in California's Inland Empire but switched to New Mexico because 
of New Mexico's tax incentives.[102] 1 Audio for TV channel 6 (KRPE-LP/Rel) 
