The Inland Empire 66ers are a minor league baseball team in San Bernardino, 
California, United States. They are the Class A – Advanced affiliate of 
the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim and play in the California League. The 
66ers play home games at San Manuel Stadium. The 66ers began when the Salinas 
Spurs moved to San Bernardino and bought the name of the San Bernardino 
Spirit from the Rancho Cucamonga Quakes who had just left town. The team 
was bought by Elmore Sports Group soon afterwards. The team originally 
played at Fiscalini Field until 1996 when the team moved to San Bernardino 
Stadium, nicknamed "The Ranch" in concert with the team's new name, the 
San Bernardino Stampede. Later, the stadium was re-christened San Manuel 
Stadium sponsored by the San Manuel Band of Mission Indians with their 
casino. The team name was later changed to the team's current name, the 
Inland Empire 66ers, taken from the historic U. S. Route 66 that ran through 
San Bernardino. In September 2006, the 66ers announced that it was renewing 
its affiliation with the Los Angeles Dodgers beginning in the 2007 season. 
That affiliation would last through the end of the 2010 season. In September 
2010, the 66ers announced they have agreed to a two-year affiliation with 
the Anaheim Angels to be the MLB club's minor league "High A" ball affiliate. 
The team was once unique for having a National Public Radio affiliate, 
KVCR-FM, as the station that broadcast its games on radio. However, in 
2008 the team changed its station to commercial talk station KCAA. The 
dance team performing on the field. Team after a 7-2 victory over the Storm 
on April 10, 2012 at Lake Elsinore Diamond. San Manuel Stadium Pitchers 
Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches 7-day disabled list * On 
Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim 40-man roster # Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve 
list ‡ Restricted list § Suspended list † Temporary inactive list Roster 
updated April 24, 2016 Transactions → More MiLB rosters → Los Angeles Angels 
