Inline speed skating is the roller sport of racing on inline skates. It 
is often called inline racing by participants. Although it primarily evolved 
from racing on traditional roller skates, the sport is similar enough to 
ice speed skating that many competitors are now known to switch between 
inline and ice speed skating according to the season. An inline speed skate 
is a specialized shoe version of the inline skate. The boot or shoe is 
close-fitting, without much padding and usually made of leather and carbon 
fiber and/or fiberglass composites. The lower part of the boot is usually 
made of carbon fiber and the upper part with leather. This also protects 
the boot from getting damaged on hitting other boots during a race. For 
best performance, the boot must conform closely to the shape of the foot, 
so most inline speed skating boots are heat-moldable, which allows the 
user to re-shape the boots to some extent when heat is applied (by placing 
the boots in oven at 185 °F (85 °C) for 15 minutes after taking off the 
wheels, frames, and straps/buckles). It is also quite common to have boots 
custom-made for improved fit.[1] Speed skating boots are low-cut and offer 
little ankle support, allowing the skater extra ankle movement. Skin blisters 
due to friction can be a problem, and common solutions include: neoprene 
or silicone "ankle bootee" such as "Ezeefit" or "Bunga Pads", double thin 
synthetic socks, smaller boots, improving technique, re-moulding the boots, 
sports tape, and use of "advanced healing" plasters to help recovery. The 
frame (sometimes called the chassis or plate) which holds the wheels is 
made of aircraft-quality aluminum, magnesium, and new developments in technology 
have allowed Carbon fiber. Frames flex during skating, and the amount of 
flex can be a personal factor in which one to choose. Very "stiff" frames 
are usually favoured by heavy skaters. A frame which is too stiff for a 
particular skater may feel unstable on corners, and a frame that is not 
stiff enough will be slower. Frame stiffness also works along with boot 
and wheel stiffness, so there are endless possible variations. A light 
frame is desirable. The new-age frames that are being developed are designed 
to absorb minute shocks and jerks that are usually experienced, thereby 
not hindering the skater's momentum. Ideal frame length is affected by 
foot size and wheel size. A slightly shorter frame is often preferred for 
the tight curves of smaller tracks but is slower. A longer frame is faster 
but much harder to turn. The frame position can usually be adjusted with 
respect to the skate, to adjust for a skater's individual foot, ankle and 
leg characteristics. Frame positioning is very critical as even a minor 
change from the skater's actual frame position can lead to severe foot 
pain. Also, many times it leads to 'locking' of the skater's ankel and/or 
calf muscle, thereby restricting it's movements. It may take a skater several 
days to weeks to test and adjust the frame position of his new skates. 
The typical Inline mounting is 195mm, which is different from the ice mounting 
of 165mm. The frame usually mounts three, four, or five polyurethane wheels. 
The three wheel frames are used by skaters with small feet, otherwise 4 
wheel frames are commonly used, with 90 mm to 110 mm diameter wheels. Five-wheel 
frames with smaller wheel have lost favor. Each wheel contains two ball 
bearings with an aluminum spacer, held in place with an axle screwed into 
the frame. Larger wheels require better skating technique, so skaters generally 
progress upwards in wheel size as they gain experience. "Hi-Lo" arrangements 
are also available, which usually have three larger wheels and one smaller 
wheel under the ball of the foot, allowing a lower and shorter overall 
frame design. In 2014 Powerslide (German inline skate company) introduced 
a 125mm wheel to be used on a 3-wheeled frame varying in sizes from 11.8" 
to 13.0". Lots of controversy surrounded this development since FIRS did 
not allow 125m wheels at the 2014 & 2015 world championships. On January 
18th of 2016 FIRS released a press release that stated the following "Dear 
Friends, Considering the evolution and growth that our sport has attained 
in the last years, the FIRS and the Speed Technical Committee have decided 
to allow, starting from February 1 2016, the use of the w heels up to a 
maximum size of 125 mm but only for the Marathons (JUNIOR and SENIOR) and 
the MASTER Category (MEN and LA DIES). We will be grateful for the spread 
of this information and we take this opportunity to send you. Kind regards, 
Jorge Roldan, FIRS Speed Technical Committee, Chairman & Robert Marotta 
FIRS Secretary General . Harder wheels minimize elastic hysteresis energy 
absorption, due to skater's weight deforming the solid polyurethane "tyre". 
So, speed skaters tend to select the hardest possible wheels, with the 
highest polyurethane durometer for their skating condition, limited by 
either wheel slip or surface roughness. Durometer selection is also affected 
by skater weight, and temperature. Wheels for indoor use are hardest with 
a durometer of 88–97. They tend to last well, but can be easily damaged 
if used outdoors. Wheels for outdoor use are softer with a durometer of 
82–87, and tend to wear more quickly. Harder outdoor wheels can also be 
used effectively indoors. Skaters sometimes combine different hardness 
wheels on the same skate in an attempt to achieve the best combination. 
Skaters also refer to wheel "rebound". This refers to the relative height 
to which a dropped wheel rebounds. It is a reasonable comparative indicator 
of the relative energy absorbed by elastic hysteresis of a wheel during 
skating. Bearing sizes have been standardized around the popular 608 series. 
A smaller and lighter 688 series has had limited acceptance. Bearing manufacturing 
precision generally run from ABEC-1 to ABEC-11, and some skate bearings 
are additionally designed to be "loose" to minimize ball rolling friction. 
Various grades of steel offer better hardness, rust resistance etc. Bearings 
with ceramic balls (and races) have been available since the late 1990s, 
They are lighter and longer lasting, however significantly more expensive. 
Black silicon nitride ceramic is superior to white zirconium dioxide ceramic, 
since it is considerably harder and tougher. At the modest rotational speeds 
encountered in skates, manufacturer data suggests negligible difference 
in friction performance between the various bearing materials. At these 
speeds, ball bearing friction tends to be dominated by seals and lubricants. 
Bearing shields reduce the entry of dirt into the bearing. Metal and rubber 
non-contact shields are commonly used, of which rubber shields are slightly 
more effective. Neither shield type is totally effective, often resulting 
in the need for bearing maintenance. The ball retainer is usually made 
of either metal, plastic, or glass. Plastic types are preferred since they 
are quieter. Bearing lubrication is usually either light oil or grease. 
Synthetic types last longer before breaking down. Grease assists in holding 
dirt away, and stays in the bearing longer, reducing maintenance and increasing 
bearing life. The lifetime of bearings used for outdoor speed skating is 
often quite limited due to damage caused by dirt ingress. These bearings 
are usually cleaned by soaking them in petrol overnight and then cleaning 
the dirt. In search of the maximum speed the principal goal is to minimize 
wind resistance, hence the use of skinsuits, special helmets and techniques. 
The second issue is elastic hysteresis energy absorption in the wheel. 
The distant third is bearing internal friction, a set of bearings in good 
condition, properly inserted and lubricated is normally enough. Mechanically, 
strokes in speed skating are deeper and faster (to a sharper angle, closer 
to the point of losing traction) than recreational skating but not as deep 
or as fast as in ice speed skating. This is because of the greater frictional 
forces in the direction of travel and lesser ability to apply friction 
without slipping of wheels on a hard surface compared to a steel blade 
on ice. Speedskaters move each foot across the center line of travel, leading 
to the double push a method named by United States skater Chad Hedrick(This 
is a normal efficient skate technique that is learned as skater gets comfortable 
with skates). The technique allows two pushes in each stroke of the skate. 
However, it can be tiring for inexperienced skaters who have improper technique 
and they will often save it until needed, such as the latter stages or 
final sprint of a distance race. With proper execution, the double push 
is an energy saver. The double push is mostly used in outdoor racing and 
the straightaways of indoor skating. During Sprints, skaters need to initially 
push their body with force to get a jump start. For this they tend to take 
quick and sharp strides. Once they have achieved a good pace, they move 
to taking comparatively longer strides. Speedskaters also need to take 
care of their body posture during all of this. They usually bend from their 
knees to maintain a low posture. This has two advantages. First of all, 
it increases the reach of the skater's legs, which results into even more 
powerful strides. Secondly, a low posture reduces the total surface area 
of the skater's body that comes in contact with the resistive air, thus 
providing an aerodynamic advantage. Turning is significantly more difficult 
with inline speed skates than recreational skates because of more and larger 
wheels, creating a longer wheelbase. The wheel profile, that is, the cross-section, 
is parabolic, with a sharper shape than recreational or aggressive wheels, 
allowing the skater to essentially skate on a smaller, and hence more agile, 
wheel when leaned over in a turn. Brakes are not generally used on speed 
skates so various other techniques to slow down are used, such as slaloming 
(skating s-curves) or v-plowing (or "snow-plowing"), where the heels are 
pushed outward and the toes inward. It is not readily obvious to an observer 
from a skater's stance that the skater is v-plowing, if it were the skater 
would quickly crash. The v-plow is often the stop used in situations where 
there is little lateral and forward room to stop. One technique is the 
T-stop, essentially dragging one foot perpendicular to and behind the other, 
however this wears the wheels of that skate quickly. Another stop involves 
picking up one foot and setting it down quickly and repeatedly somewhat 
perpendicular to the forward motion while keeping weight on the other foot. 
Hockey stops are possible on speed skates, but require a very deep lean 
in order to cause the wheels to lose traction and slide, also the fact 
that wheels are sliding means that the wheels are also wearing down very 
quickly. Grass runouts are always a last option, given an adjacent grassy 
area. An inline speedskater takes much time to stop and often has still 
fewer options in an emergency, often taking several hundred feet on a level 
surface to come to a stop at a full, controlled deceleration. Thus, a skater 
should be familiar with and proficient in stopping techniques before attempting 
difficult situations such as heavily travelled roads or hills. Inline speed 
skating requires professional athletes to go through intense physical training. 
A strict diet and a rigorous training schedule has to be followed. The 
training schedule is mainly designed to build and maintain strong thighs 
and calves. But skating, just like swimming, requires the use of the whole 
body. Therefore, it is critical that the whole schedule is well balanced 
to attain and maintain a sturdy upper-body too. Also, a flexible upper 
body is preferred ,which could help in maintaining the balance of the body 
in a better way. A heavy, protein-rich diet is required to be followed. 
Usually, skaters have two sets of skates/wheels, one for training and the 
other for races and competitions. Wheels and bearings used for practice 
generally require much more efforts to gain some momentum and speed, as 
compared to the ones used in competitions. Tactics in outdoor inline racing 
are similar to those of marathon ice speed skating and of road bicycle 
racing. Skaters tend to form packs or "pacelines" (also called "pelotons") 
in which skaters line up behind a lead skater and try to match their strides, 
thereby saving energy by skating in his draft. Sportsmanship requires that 
skaters in the paceline share the duty as paceline leader. Those who never 
"take a pull" at the front will likely find other skaters tactically working 
together to defeat them. During the course of a race skaters may make "attacks", 
speeding up the pace in an effort to weed out the weaker and slower competition. 
These attacks may include "breakaways" and "fliers", in which skaters try 
to create new smaller and faster packs or else to escape entirely from 
the other skaters. Depending on the length of the race and the skills and 
the cooperative effort of the chasers, these breakaways may or may not 
prove successful. If a skater escapes a pack in order to join a successful 
breakaway group, it is known as "bridging up". When skaters who are member 
of teams participate in a race together, they often have pre-determined 
roles. One or two would be designated attackers whose role it is to tire 
out the competition. Another skater may be the designated winner for the 
team, and he may avoid chasing any breakaways until late in a race, possibly 
until the final sprint if the lead pack has never broken up. Quad roller-skating 
racing is the precursor to the popularity and acclaim received by competitive 
racing on in-line skates. Up until 1991 all World Championships were held 
on quad skates. Most events at the 1992 World Championships were specific 
to quads, however, some events were classed as "open" giving the athlete 
the option of choosing either quads or in-lines. The same criteria was 
applied for the 1993 World Championships. In 1994 all events were declared 
as "open". Despite this it had soon become evident that in-lines were predominantly 
quicker than quads on all surfaces and all tracks and to this end athletes 
opted for in-lines over quads, as is still the case today. Inline speed 
skating races are held in a variety of formats and on a variety of surfaces. 
Indoor races are most common in the United States, which has a long tradition 
of racing on skates at rinks. The competitions are generally held at roller 
skating rinks with plastic coated wood floors and less commonly, a plastic 
coated cement floor. The track is about 100 m in circumference. At USARS 
(USA Roller Sports) events, tracks are marked by four pylons set in a parabolic 
oval, while at NIRA (National Inline Racing Association) events, tracks 
are marked by multiple pylons that create an oval shaped track. Events, 
or meets, are typically structured so that members of numerous age groups 
race in three or four distances. For the more populous divisions, there 
may be a number of heats in order to qualify for the final race. To some 
extent, indoor inline races are similar to short track speed skating. Outdoor 
races may be held on regular pavement on city streets or park roads, or 
they may be held at specialized venues similar to velodromes, sometimes 
called patinodromes. A patinodrome is generally about 200 m in circumference 
and may be surfaced with asphalt, concrete or similar material. The curves 
may be banked. Such specialized skating tracks are relatively common in 
Europe but rare in the United States. The international governing body 
for World Roller Sports, Federation Internationale de Roller Sports (FIRS) 
and its technical committee, Committee International de Course (CIC), are 
making strides to commonise tracks used specifically for World Championships 
that have the same size, shape and surface. Plans for such tracks are available 
from FIRS upon request. Race formats include: See: World Roller Speed Skating 
Championships Attempts by the world governing body for roller sports, the 
International Roller Sports Federation (FIRS), to gain Olympic status for 
any of its disciplines were distinctly insufficient in the closing decades 
of the 20th century. Most notably, it failed to capitalize when rink hockey 
(a form of roller hockey) appeared as a demonstration sport at the 1992 
Summer Olympics in Barcelona. Efforts by FIRS to obtain Olympic status 
became more coherent in about 2000, with inline speed skating promoted 
as the roller sport best suited for the Olympics. However, the federation 
faces competition from approximately 20 other sports also seeking entry 
into the Olympics, while at the same time the president of the International 
Olympic Committee has expressed a desire to reduce the size of the summer 
Olympic Games. Roller sports was a candidate sport for the 2016 Summer 
Olympics, following the drop of baseball and softball, but the Olympic 
Committee eventually chose rugby sevens and golf instead. Notably, roller 
speed or in-line speed skating has been an included sport at the World 
