An inning in baseball, softball, and similar games is the basic unit of 
play, consisting of two halves or frames,[1] the "top" (first half) and 
the "bottom" (second half). In each half, one team bats until three outs 
are made, with the other team playing defense.[2] A full game typically 
is scheduled for six, seven, or nine innings, although this may be shortened 
due to weather or extended in the event that the score is tied at the end 
of the scheduled innings. Each half-inning formally starts when the umpire 
calls "Play" or "Play ball". A full inning consists of six outs, three 
for each team; and, Major League Baseball and most other adult leagues, 
a regulation game consists of nine innings. The visiting team bats in the 
first half-inning, the top of the inning, derived from the position of 
the visiting team at the top line of a baseball line score. The home team's 
half of an inning is the bottom of the inning, and the break between halves 
of an inning is the middle of the inning. If the home team is leading in 
the middle of the final scheduled inning, or scores to take the lead in 
the bottom of the final scheduled inning, the game immediately ends in 
a home victory. In most leagues, if the score is tied after the final scheduled 
inning, the game goes into extra innings until an inning ends with one 
team ahead of the other. In Japanese baseball, however, games end if tied 
after 12 innings (or, in postseason play in Nippon Professional Baseball, 
15 innings). After the 2011 earthquake, for the 2011 and 2012 NPB season, 
a game also ended in a tie if a regular-season game has reached its 3-hour, 
30-minute time limit and both teams are tied. As in the case of the ninth 
inning, a home team which scores to take a lead in any extra inning automatically 
wins, and the inning (and the game) is considered complete at that moment 
regardless of the number of outs. This is commonly referred to as a "walk-off" 
situation, since the last play results in the teams walking off the field 
because the game is over. However, road teams can't earn a "walk-off" victory 
by scoring the go-ahead run in extra innings, unlike in ice hockey where 
the team (either home or away) scoring first in overtime automatically 
wins. A baseball game can be shorter than scheduled innings if it is interrupted 
by rain (or other bad weather). Such a game, called a rain out, is often 
preceded by a rain delay, a pause in the game during which the umpires 
will try to determine if the weather will allow the game to continue. If 
so, the game will simply be delayed until the rain stops, and then play 
will resume. If not, the umpires will announce a rain out and play will 
be suspended for the day. The game may have to be replayed in its entirely 
at a later date, but under certain circumstances, a game shortened because 
of rain can count as an official game, and the team that was ahead at the 
time the game was called will be awarded the win. See the article on rainout 
(baseball) for further details.[3] Professional baseball games as well 
as college baseball games are scheduled for nine innings. High school games 
and College softball are scheduled for seven innings, as are some college 
and minor league baseball doubleheaders, and Little League are scheduled 
for six innings.[citation needed] Ending a half-inning is referred to as 
"retiring the side". A half-inning in which all batters are put out without 
taking a base is referred to as a "one-two-three inning". The number of 
innings a pitcher is in a game is measured by the innings pitched statistic. 
In US English, baseball terminology is sometimes found in non-sports usage 
in a tense situation: "it's the bottom of the ninth [inning]" (sometimes 
adding, "with two outs"), meaning "there isn't much time to turn things 
around here". While inning is the standard baseball term, there is at least 
one literary instance, of innings being used in a baseball context. This 
occurs in the story "Baseball Hattie" by Damon Runyon, who refers to the 
