Instant replay is a video reproduction of something that recently occurred 
which was both shot and broadcast live. The video, having already been 
shown live, is replayed in order for viewers to see again and analyze what 
had just taken place. Some sports allow officiating calls to be overturned 
after the review of a play. Instant replay is most commonly used in sports, 
but is also used in other fields of live TV. While the first near-instant 
replay system was developed and used in Canada, the first instant replay 
was developed and deployed in the United States. During a 1955 Hockey Night 
in Canada broadcast on CBC Television, producer George Retzlaff used a 
"wet-film" (kinescope) replay, which aired several minutes later. Videotape 
was introduced in 1956 with the Ampex Quadruplex system. However, it was 
incapable of displaying slow motion, instant replay, or freeze-frames, 
and it was difficult to rewind and set index points. CBS Sports Director 
Tony Verna invented a system to enable a standard videotape machine to 
instantly replay on December 7, 1963, for the network's coverage of the 
US military's Army–Navy Game. The instant replay machine weighed 1,300 
pounds (590 kg).[1] After technical hitches, the only replay broadcast 
was Rollie Stichweh's touchdown. It was replayed at the original speed, 
with commentator Lindsey Nelson advising viewers "Ladies and gentlemen, 
Army did not score again!"[1] The problem with older technology was the 
difficulty of finding the desired starting point; Verna's system used audio 
tones activated as an interesting event unfolded, which technicians could 
hear during the rewinding process. Replay from analog disk storage was 
tried out by CBS in 1965, and commercialized in 1967 by the Ampex HS-100, 
which had a 30-second capacity and freeze frame capability.[2] Instant 
replay has been credited as a primary factor in the rise of televised American 
football, although it was popular on television even before then. While 
one camera was set up to show the overall “live” action, other cameras, 
which were linked to a separate videotape machine, framed close-ups of 
key players. Within a few seconds of a crucial play, the videotape machine 
would replay the action from various, close-up angles, in slow motion.[3] 
Prior to instant replay, it was almost impossible to portray the essence 
of an American football game on television. Viewers struggled to assimilate 
the action from a wide shot of the field, on a small black-and-white television 
screen. However, with replay technology, “brutal collisions became ballets, 
and end runs and forward passes became miracles of human coordination.” 
Thanks in large part to instant replay, televised football became evening 
entertainment, perfected by ABC-TV’s Monday Night Football, and enjoyed 
by a wide audience[3] Marshall McLuhan, the noted communication theorist, 
famously said that any new medium contains all prior media within it. McLuhan 
gave Tony Verna's invention of instant replay as a good example. "Until 
the advent of the instant replay, televised football had served simply 
as a substitute for physically attending the game; the advent of instant 
replay – which is possible only with the television – marks a post-convergent 
moment in the medium of television." In television broadcasting of sports 
events, instant replay is often used during live broadcast, to show a passage 
of play which was important or remarkable, or which was unclear on first 
sight. Replays are typically shown during a break or lull in the action; 
in modern telecasts, it will be the next break, though older systems were 
sometimes less instant. The replay may be in slow motion, or from multiple 
camera angles. Video servers, with their advanced technology, have allowed 
for more complex replays, such as freeze frame, frame-by-frame review, 
replay at variable speeds, overlaying of virtual graphics, instant analysis 
tools such as ball speed or immediate distance calculation. Sports commentators 
analyze the replay footage when it is being played, rather than describing 
the concurrent live action. Instant replays are used today in broadcasting 
extreme sports, where the speed of the action is too high to be easily 
interpreted by the naked eye, using combinations of advanced technologies 
such as video servers and high-speed cameras recording at up to several 
thousand frames per second. Evertz Microsystem's DreamCatcher [4] replay 
system is widely used by College and Pro Sports clubs including the NBA, 
MLB. Some sports organizations allow referees or other officials to consult 
replay footage before making or revising a decision about an unclear or 
dubious play. This is variously called video referee, video umpire, instant 
replay official, television match official or third umpire. Other organizations 
allow video evidence only after the end of the contest, for example to 
penalize a player for misconduct not noticed by the officials during play. 
Leagues using instant replay in official decision making include the National 
Hockey League, National Football League, Canadian Football League, National 
Basketball Association, and Major League Baseball. The role of the video 
referee differs varies; often they can only be called upon to adjudicate 
on specific events. Due to the cost of television cameras and other equipment 
needed for a video referee to function, most sports only employ them at 
a professional or top-class level. In NBA basketball, the officials must 
watch an instant replay of a potential buzzer beater to determine if the 
shot was released before time expired. Since 2002, the NBA has mandated 
installation of LED light strips on both the backboard and the scorer's 
table that illuminate when time expires, to assist with any potential review. 
Instant replay first came to NBA in the 2002–03 season. In Game 4 of the 
2002 Western Conference Finals, Los Angeles Lakers forward Samaki Walker 
made a three-point field goal from the half court at the end of the second 
quarter. However, the replay showed that Walker's shot was late and that 
the ball was still in his hand when the clock expired. The use of instant 
replay was instituted afterward.[5] Beginning with the 2007–08 season, 
replay also can be used in determining players being ejected from contests 
involving brawls or flagrant fouls. In the 2008–09 season, replay may also 
be used to correctly determine whether a scored field goal is worth two 
or three points. It may also be used to determine the correct number of 
free throws awarded for a missed field goal. It may also be used in cases 
where the game clock malfunctions and play continues to decide how much 
time to take off the clock.[6] In college basketball, the same procedure 
may also be used to determine if a shot was released before time expired 
in either half or an overtime period. In addition, NCAA rules allow the 
officials to use instant replay to determine if a field goal is worth two 
or three points, who is to take a free throw, whether a fight occurred 
and who participated in a fight. The officials may also check if the shot 
was made before the expiration of the shot clock, but only when such a 
situation occurs at the end of a half or an overtime period. Such rules 
have required the NCAA to write new rules stating that, when looking at 
instant replay video, the zeros on the clock, not the horn or red light, 
determine the end of the game. In Italy, host broadcaster Sky agreed with 
Serie A to the adoption of instant replay for special tournaments and playoff 
games, and in 2005, for the entire season. Instant replay would be used 
automatically on situations similar to the NCAA, but coaches may, like 
the NFL, have one coach's challenge to challenge a two or three point shot. 
Officials may determine who last touched the ball in an out-of-bounds situation 
or back-court violations. The adoption of instant replay was crucial in 
the 2005 Serie A championship between Armani Jeans Milano and Climamio 
Bologna. Bologna led the best-of-five series, 2-1, with Game 4 in Milan, 
and the home team leading 65-64, as Climamio's Ruben Douglas connected 
on a three-point basket at the end of the game to apparently win the Serie 
A championship. Officials, knowing the 12,000 fans on both sides would 
learn the fate of the series on their call, watched replays of the shot 
before determining it was valid. The Euroleague Basketball (company) adopted 
instant replay for the 2006 Euroleague Final Four and made a rule change 
determining the lights on the backboard, not the horn, will end a period, 
thus assisting with instant replay.[7] On April 6, 2006, FIBA announced 
instant replay for last-second shots would be legal for their competitions. 
"The referee may use technical equipment to determine on a last shot made 
at the end of each period or extra period, whether the ball has or has 
not left the player's hand(s) within the playing time."[8] Before the beginning 
of the 2013-2014 NBA season, new instant replay rules were put into effect, 
saying that it can be used for: block/charge plays; to determine if an 
off-ball foul occurred before or after a shooting motion began in a successful 
shot attempt, or if the ball is released on a throw in. They also began 
to use instant reply to determine correct penalties for flagrant fouls.[9] 
The video goal judge reviews replays of disputed goals. As the referee 
does not have access to television monitors, the video goal judge's decision 
in disputed goals is taken as final. In the NHL, goals may only be reviewed 
in the following situations: puck crossing the goal line completely and 
before time expired, puck in the net prior to goal frame being dislodged, 
puck being directed into the net by hand or foot, puck deflected into the 
net off an official, and puck deflected into the goal by a high stick (stick 
above the goal) by an attacking player. All NHL goals are subject to review, 
and although most arenas have a video goal judge, often officials in the 
Situation Room (also known as the "War Room") at the NHL office in Toronto 
make the final decision. Beginning in the 2015-16 NHL season, instant replay 
reviews have been expanded to include a coach's challenge. Each coach receives 
one challenge per game, which requires the use of a timeout. Coaches may 
only challenge over situations whether the goal should have been disallowed 
because of goaltender interference or an offside, or whether a goal disallowed 
because of goaltender interference should be allowed instead. The challenging 
team retains its timeout and its challenge after every call that has been 
overturned. Unsuccessful challenges result in the loss of the challenging 
team's timeout. Challenges are not allowed during the final minute of regulation, 
as well as at any point during overtime. In this situation, officials in 
the Situation Room reviews all instances where the puck entered the net, 
and then determines the final ruling. However, for reviews that take place 
during coach's challenges, the on-ice officials determine the final ruling. 
In field hockey, the International Hockey Federation allows the match umpire 
to request the opinion of a video umpire as to whether or not a goal has 
been validly scored, and whether there was a violation in the build-up 
to a goal.[10] The video umpire can advise on whether the ball crossed 
the line there was a violation.[10] Ordinarily, teams are not allowed to 
make such a request or to press the match umpire to do so.[10] On a trial 
basis, the 2009 Men’s Champions Trophy allows for "team referral" by each 
team captain, to query a goal, penalty stroke, or penalty corner decision. 
The team retains the right to a referral if its previous referrals were 
upheld.[11] In Major League Baseball, instant replay has been introduced 
to address "boundary calls," which include questions on whether or not 
a hit should be considered a home run (HR). Among reviewable plays are: 
Fair Ball-HR; Foul Ball, Ball Clearing Wall-HR; Ball Staying in Play-Live 
Ball; Ball Leaving Field of Play-HR; and, Ball or Player interfered with 
by spectators (called Spectator Interference). The latest MLB collective 
bargaining agreement, pending agreement by the umpires' union, expands 
instant replay to include: Fair Ball; Foul Ball along foul lines, or Ball 
Caught for Out; Ball Trapped Against Ground or Wall; as well as expanding 
Interference calls to all walls regardless of whether it is a "boundary 
call" or not. In Little League Baseball, Instant Replay was adopted for 
the Little League World Series only, and includes all "boundary call" plays 
reviewable at the Major League Level, in addition to adding review to plays 
involving force outs, tag plays on the basepaths, hit batters, and for 
defensive appeals regarding whether a runner missed touching a base.[12] 
In tennis, systems such as Hawk-Eye and MacCAM calculate the trajectory 
of the ball by processing the input of several video cameras. They can 
play a computer rendering of the path and determine whether the ball landed 
in or out. Players can appeal to have the system's calculation used to 
override a disputed call by the umpire. In March 2008, the International 
Tennis Federation, Association of Tennis Professionals, Women's Tennis 
Association and Grand Slam Committee agreed unified challenge rules: a 
player can make up to three unsuccessful challenges per set, and a fourth 
in a tie-break.[13] Television broadcasts may use the footage to replay 
points even when not challenged by a player. Video-refereeing is compulsory 
at World Championships, Grand Prix competitions and at the Olympic Games, 
and is used when the referee cannot decide if a touch is to be awarded, 
at request of a player (although only two incorrect video appeals are allowed 
per player in individual competitions) or if the score is tied in the last 
point and both lights turn on. There is an assistant official, called "video-referee", 
who is watching the live match and helps the referee on the decision through 
a slow motion replay on a monitor close to the piste. It is specially used 
to decide the right of way in foil and sabre. To appeal, a player must 
make a gesture in the form of a rectangle (monitor) to the referee. In 
individual matches, if the player has appealed twice incorrectly, he/she 
can no longer appeal again. Since being introduced by Europe's Super League 
in 1996,[14] video referees have been adopted in Australia's National Rugby 
League and international competition as well. In rugby league the video 
referee can be called upon by the match official to determine the outcome 
of a possible try. The "video ref" can make judgements on knock-ons, offside, 
obstructions, hold-ups and whether or not a player has gone dead, but cannot 
rule on a forward pass. If a forward pass has gone un-noticed by the on-field 
officials it must be disregarded by the video ref, as such judgements cannot 
reliably be made due to camera angle effects. Use of video referee was 
introduced to rugby union in 2001.[15] The laws of the game allow for "an 
official who uses technological devices" to be consulted by the referee 
in decisions relating to scoring a try or a kick at goal.[16] The decision 
to call on the video referee (now called "Television Match Official (TMO)") 
is made by the referee, then the call is made by the replay referee, who 
takes his place near the press box, the Television Outside Broadcast van, 
or in more recent years, a centralised office by the organising league. 
He either tells the pitch referee by radio link-up or by the use of a big 
screen during televised matches. Unlike in the NFL, a coach cannot challenge 
a call made by the pitch referee. Cricket also uses an instant replay. 
It is used in the areas of run outs, stumpings, doubtful catches and whether 
the ball has crossed the boundary for a six or short of a four. The International 
Cricket Council[17] decided to trial a referral system during the Indian 
tour of Sri Lanka through late July and August 2008. This new referral 
system allows players to seek reviews, by the third umpire, of decisions 
by the on-field umpires on whether or not a batsman has been dismissed. 
Each team can make three[citation needed] unsuccessful requests per innings, 
which must be made within a few seconds of the ball becoming dead; once 
made, the requests cannot be withdrawn. Only the batsman involved in a 
dismissal can ask for a review of an "out" decision; in a "not out", only 
the captain or acting captain of the fielding team. In both cases players 
can consult on-field teammates but signals from off the field are not permitted. 
A review request can be made by the player with a 'T' sign; the umpire 
will consult the TV umpire, who will review TV coverage of the incident 
before relaying back fact-based information. The field umpire can then 
either reverse his decision or stand by it; he indicates "out" with a raised 
finger and "not out" by crossing his hands in a horizontal position side 
to side in front and above his waist three times. The TV umpire can use 
regular slow-motion, or high-speed camera angles usually called ultra-motion 
or super-slow replays, the mat, sound from the stump mics and approved 
ball tracking technology, which refers to Hawk-Eye technology that would 
only show the TV umpire where the ball pitched and where it hit the batsman's 
leg and it is not to be used for predicting the height or the direction 
of the ball. Snicko and Hot Spot can also be used. Ultra Motion or Slo-mo 
is the predecessor of Hi Motion, its superior and easier-to-use successor 
which was started in 2006, Ultra Motion shot at 1000 frames a second to 
produce some remarkable images. For the first time viewers could see the 
amazing way that bats bent and twisted as they made contact with the ball, 
and even the way the bones in the hand reverberate when a catch is made. 
Perhaps it is at its most useful when used to show just where on the batsman's 
bat or body a ball glanced, rarely does a replay fail to clear that issue 
up. Often used by TV productions during closing sequences or musical interludes. 
The latest addition that is not yet widespread used is the super slow motion 
cameras, showing the frames that are missed out by the regular cameras. 
The Professional Bull Riders organization, beginning with the 2006–07 season, 
has instituted an instant replay system in cooperation with the Versus 
network. A bull rider, a fellow competitor, or a judge may request a replay 
review by filing a protest to the replay official within 30 seconds of 
any decision. Any competitor (it does not have to be the rider who is riding 
the bull in question, as fellow riders can observe the action and spot 
fouls by bull or rider) may file the complaint to the replay official by 
sounding a signal at the arena and pay a fee of $500 to PBR before explaining 
to the replay official why he is filing the request. The replay official 
(usually a former bull rider) may request different angles and/or slow 
motion, as well as freeze particular frames. The replay judge will use 
all available technology to assess the call in question and supply his 
ruling. This includes using his own hand-held stopwatch to time bull rides, 
as the official eight-second clock used in PBR competition starts when 
the bull usually exits the bucking chute. The replay will be used to evaluate 
timing issues, fouls against the rider for touching the bull or ground 
with his free hand or using the fence to stay on the bull, or fouls by 
the bull, such as dragging the rider across the fence. If an appeal is 
successful, the $500 is returned to the competitor filing the request. 
If the appeal is unsuccessful, the $500 is forfeited and sent to PBR charities 
such as the Resistol Relief Fund to assist injured bull riders. NASCAR 
utilizes instant replay to supplement their electronic scoring system. 
Video replays are used to review rules infractions and scoring disputes. 
IndyCar also utilizes instant replay for similar reasons. Broadcast stations 
utilize replays to show viewers a crash in greater detail.[19] In association 
football, FIFA does not permit video evidence during matches, although 
it is permitted for subsequent disciplinary sanctions.[20] The 1970 meeting 
of the International Football Association Board "agreed to request the 
television authorities to refrain from any slow-motion play-back which 
reflected, or might reflect, adversely on any decision of the referee".[21] 
In 2005, Urs Linsi, general secretary of FIFA, said:[22] There have been 
allegations that referees had made or changed decisions on the advice of 
a fourth official who had seen the in-stadium replay of an incident. This 
was denied by FIFA in relation to the Zidane headbutt of Materazzi in the 
2006 World Cup final,[23] and in relation to the 2009 FIFA Confederations 
Cup match between Brazil and Egypt, in which Howard Webb signalled initially 
for a corner kick but then a penalty kick.[24][25] It has been said that 
instant replay is needed given the difficulty of tracking the activities 
of 22 players on such a large field,[26] FIFA officials approached researchers 
at the University of Glasgow in Scotland for help, but came up with nothing 
that could satisfy the league's stringent requirements.[27] Opponents of 
instant replay like FIFA President Sepp Blatter argue that refereeing mistakes 
add to the "fascination and popularity of football."[28] It has been proposed 
that instant replay be limited to use in penalty incidents, fouls which 
lead to bookings or red cards and whether the ball has crossed the goal 
line, since those events are more likely than others to be game-changing.[29] 
In 2007, FIFA authorized tests of two systems, one involving an implanted 
chip in the ball and the other using a modified version of Tennis's Hawk-Eye 
system, to assist referees in deciding whether a ball had crossed over 
the goal line.[30] The following year, however, the IFAB and FIFA halted 
testing of all goal-line technology, fearing that its success would lead 
to its possibly expansion to other parts of the game. Sepp Blatter claimed 
the technologies were flawed and too expensive to be implemented on a widespread 
basis, adding, "Let it be as it is and let's leave (soccer) with errors. 
The television companies will have the right to say (the referee) was right 
or wrong, but still the referee makes the decision — a man, not a machine." 
This sudden change of course surprised and angered Paul Hawkins, as the 
inventor of the Hawk-Eye system had invested a great deal of money into 
adapting the Hawk-Eye technology to football.[28] In 2009, Hawkins sent 
an open letter to Blatter refuting the FIFA president's assertion that 
the Hawk-Eye goal line technology was flawed and arguing that Hawk-Eye 
met all of the criteria established by the IFAB for a suitable goal line 
technology system.[31] The controversy over goal line technology was re-ignited 
in 2009 after Brazil had a potential equalizing goal disallowed during 
the 2009 Confederations Cup Final; and during the 2010 FIFA World Cup after 
England's Frank Lampard's shot off the underside of the crossbar during 
a 4-1 defeat against Germany was not ruled a goal, despite replays clearly 
showing it was 60 centimetres over the line.[32][33] In July 2012, International 
Football Association Board voted unanimously to officially amend the Laws 
of the Game to permit (but not require) goal-line technology.[34] The technology 
was used at the 2014 FIFA World Cup.[35] In April 2016, it was announced 
Serie A was selected by the International Football Association Board to 
test video replays, which will initially be private for the 2016–17 season, 
before allowing them to become a live pilot phase with replay assistance 
by the 2017–18 season at the latest.[36] In September 2016, the video review 
system known as Video Assistant Referees (VARs), were first used in an 
international friendly between Italy and France for testing, with plans 
