Major League Baseball (MLB) allows the use of instant replay review to 
allow league officials to review certain types of plays in order to determine 
the accuracy of the initial call of the umpires on the field. Reviews may 
be initiated either by a team's manager with limitations or by the umpires 
themselves. All instant replay reviews are examined by an umpire at the 
Replay Command Center in New York City, who has the final decision as to 
whether to uphold or overturn the initial call. MLB was the last of the 
four major North American professional sports leagues to implement an instant 
replay review system. Instant replay review was first implemented during 
the 2008 season. Under that system, only the umpire crew chief could initiate 
a review, and one or more members of the umpiring crew would review the 
video at the stadium and render the decision to uphold or overturn the 
call. Only boundary home run calls could be reviewed, either if the initial 
call was a home run but might not have been (e.g., spectator interference 
or a foul ball near the foul pole) or if the initial call was not a home 
run but might have been (e.g., the ball hit an object such as a railing 
beyond the outfield wall and then bounced back onto the field).[1][2] The 
current instant replay system was implemented in the 2014 season. Under 
the current system each manager is allotted one challenge per game, with 
additional challenges granted only if the previous one was successful. 
From the seventh inning on, the umpire crew chief is allowed to initiate 
his own replay review. The umpire crew chief is also allowed to initiate 
a review during any inning if the play in question is a boundary home run 
call. The following plays may be subjected to instant replay review: To 
initiate a managers's challenge, a manager must enter the field of play 
and verbally tell the umpire he will use his challenge. Teams are allowed 
to have a replay assistant in the booth watch the replay and talk with 
a coach via the dugout telephone to decide if the team should challenge 
the call. A player or coach in the dugout will signal to the manager whether 
or not to use the challenge. When a play is reviewed, at least two umpires 
(including the crew chief) will go to an area behind home plate where they 
will meet a technician. The technician hands the umpires headsets where 
they can communicate with the umpires at the Replay Command Center in New 
York City. During the review, the replay may be displayed on the stadium 
video screen. Once the call is determined, the field technician will leave 
and the crew chief will signal the final call. If a manager enters the 
field of play to argue a reviewed call, he will be automatically ejected 
from the game.[3] Instant replay in MLB actually had been used once before 
in the 1999 season during a Florida Marlins home game at Pro Player Stadium. 
This was the first instance in which instant replay was utilized in Major 
League Baseball.[4] While playing the St. Louis Cardinals, Cliff Floyd 
hit a ball off of the top of the left field scoreboard. Originally ruled 
a double, then ruled a home run, NL Umpire Frank Pulli reverted the call 
back to a double, after consulting a TV monitor in the Marlins dugout. 
The Cardinals won the game, 5-2, and the Marlins protested the use of the 
TV monitor. The National League Office declared the umpires erred in using 
instant replay, and the American League Office concurred that instant replay 
was not to be used in the future. However, the Marlins protest was denied 
on the grounds that it was a judgment call rather than a rules violation 
as such, and the play stood.[5] MLB did not use instant replay again for 
almost a decade.[6] Although not an exact "instant" replay, a controversial 
play in the 1969 World Series involving a J. C. Martin bunt attempt led 
Commissioner Bowie Kuhn to study the videotape the next day, to assure 
himself and to announce that a reasonable call had been made by the umpires. 
Major League Baseball instant replay was instituted on August 28, 2008 
by commissioner Bud Selig. "I believe that the extraordinary technology 
that we now have merits the use of instant replay on a very limited basis", 
Commissioner Selig said. "The system we have in place will ensure that 
the proper call is made on home run balls and will not cause a significant 
delay to the game."[7] Although MLB was the last of the four major United 
States professional sports leagues to implement an instant replay review 
system, replay was used 123 times between August 28, 2008 and the conclusion 
of the 2010 season (with 48 of those instances resulting in overturned 
calls).[8] Replay made its official, sanctioned MLB debut at Tropicana 
Field on September 3, 2008 after Alex Rodriguez of the New York Yankees 
hit a ball near the left-field foul pole that was initially ruled a home 
run by third base umpire Brian Runge. Tampa Bay Rays manager Joe Maddon 
and catcher Dioner Navarro argued that the ball was foul and asked for 
a review. After a conversation among the umpires, crew chief Charlie Reliford 
allowed the replay, which was sent by MLB.com logger Dominic Sims, to take 
place and after review, upheld the home run call.[9] The first instance 
of an umpire's call being overturned by instant replay also occurred at 
Tropicana Field. On September 19, 2008, in the bottom of the 4th inning 
with two men on, Carlos Peña of the Rays hit the ball just over the fence 
in right field. The umpires originally ruled that there was spectator interference, 
but after several minutes of viewing replays, the umpires returned to the 
field and signaled it a home run, extending the Rays' lead to 9-0 at that 
point.[10] Aside from the two aforementioned reviews at Tampa Bay, review 
was used five additional times during the 2008 regular season: twice at 
Houston, and once each at Seattle, San Francisco, and Philadelphia. On 
March 16, 2009, during the 2009 World Baseball Classic, instant replay 
was requested for the first time in the tournament's history at Dolphin 
Stadium to give Venezuela a home run against Puerto Rico. Crew chief Ed 
Rapuano stated in a postgame press conference that there was never any 
replay, because the "war room" in New York City was unable to send him 
a replay of the play in question due to technical difficulties. The umpires, 
two from the United States and two from Japan, then worked with a translator 
to make a final ruling. Three of the four umpires said they believed it 
was a home run, and when third-base umpire Hitoshi Watarida was asked by 
Rapuano if he was "110 percent sure" that it was a home run, Watarida said 
yes. Nearly 10 minutes after first entering the dugout, the umpires returned 
to the field and awarded the Venezuelan team with a home run.[11] Instant 
replay instead made its WBC debut during the 2013 World Baseball Classic 
as umpires upheld a home run call during a Mexico vs. USA game.[12] On 
June 19, 2009, instant replay was used twice in a game for the first time, 
during a Detroit Tigers vs. Milwaukee Brewers game. On October 31, 2009, 
instant replay was used for the first time in a World Series, when in the 
fourth inning of Game 3 of the World Series, Alex Rodriguez hit a ball 
that bounced off the camera in right field. Initially called as a double, 
the umpires reviewed the play, and determined that had the camera not been 
in its location, the ball probably would have left the park, and a home 
run was awarded to Rodriguez, making the score 3-2.[13] On June 1, 2011, 
Billy Butler of the Kansas City Royals hit a fly ball to left field in 
the bottom of the ninth inning of a scoreless game against the Los Angeles 
Angels of Anaheim. The ball hit off the fence over the left-field wall 
and skipped back onto the field. It was ruled a double and Jeff Francoeur 
held at third. Manager Ned Yost argued that it was a home run. The umpires 
reviewed it and saw that the ball hit off the back part of the fence and 
went back onto the field (Kauffman Stadium's configuration allows for this 
play to be officiated as a home run). After review, the umpires accordingly 
ruled home run, granting the Royals a 2-0 victory. This was the second 
walk-off home run reviewed by instant replay in MLB history. On June 29, 
2011, Jorge Posada of the New York Yankees hit a fly ball to right field. 
The ball bounced off the wall and a fan reached over to grab it. Originally 
ruled a base hit, instant replay showed that the fan touched the ball as 
it bounced back onto the field. After the review, the umpires called it 
a home run. On August 17, 2011, Billy Butler hit a fly ball to left field. 
It hit off the railing in left. Brett Gardner grabbed the ball when it 
came back in and threw it into the infield. The umpires called it a home 
run. Joe Girardi came out to argue. The umpires looked at the review. The 
replays showed that the ball hit off the wall in left, exited the field 
and returned; the call stood, giving Butler his 15th home run of the season.[14] 
On August 18, 2011, Justin Morneau hit a deep fly ball to right field that 
appeared to go just to the right side of the foul pole for a foul ball. 
However, the umpires immediately called it a home run. For the second straight 
night, Joe Girardi came out to argue the call and ask for a review. The 
umpires reviewed and ruled that the ball did indeed go past the right side 
of the foul pole, thus calling it a foul ball. Twins manager Ron Gardenhire 
came out to argue the call and was ejected from the game by home plate 
umpire Brian O'Nora for arguing a decision to change a call after looking 
at instant replay, which pursuant to MLB rule, shall result in an automatic 
ejection.[15] On September 4, 2011, Hunter Pence of the Philadelphia Phillies 
hit a fly ball to deep right field. Originally ruled a live ball, instant 
replay showed Marlins right fielder Bryan Petersen was interfered with 
by multiple fans during his opportunity to catch a ball, under Rule 2.00 
INTERFERENCE (d)(1) and (2). After instant replay review, first base umpire 
and crew chief Joe West ruled Pence out under the provisions of spectator 
interference, Rule 3.16, and sent Phillies baserunner Ryan Howard back 
to first base. For the second time in less than a month, a manager was 
ejected arguing the instant replay decision: Charlie Manuel was ejected 
and elected to play the game under protest. On September 7, 2011, MLB VP 
of Baseball Operations Joe Torre denied the first ever protest associated 
with authorized instant replay usage.[16] During the 2011 American League 
Division Series, Robinson Canó of the New York Yankees hit a fly ball to 
left field. It bounced off the wall and back into play. Cano argued that 
the ball went over the wall. Instant replay showed that the ball bounced 
off the wall and narrowly missed a fan, bouncing back into play. Therefore, 
the call stood. On May 8, 2013, Adam Rosales of the Oakland Athletics hit 
a game tying home run, but was initially ruled a double, as the ball hit 
a railing behind the wall in left field and bounced back on the field. 
Despite video replays clearly indicating a home run, umpire Ángel Hernández 
upheld the original ruling. Oakland manager Bob Melvin was ejected for 
arguing and the Cleveland Indians held on to win 4-3.[17] As part of the 
new collective bargaining agreement between MLB's owners and players union 
(MLBPA), and pending approval by the umpires union (WUA), two additional 
elements will be added to the replay rules. Instant replay will expand 
to include fair and foul calls and balls that are caught, or trapped by 
the player catching the ball. It will also expand interference reviews 
beyond the home run boundary to all walls. Not expanded in 2012, Executive 
Vice President of Baseball Operations Joe Torre confirmed that instant 
replay would again not be expanded in time for Opening Day 2013, putting 
off plans for yet another season.[18] On August 15, 2013, Major League 
Baseball announced that it will expand its video review process for the 
2014 season, granting managers one challenge over the first six innings 
of games and two from the seventh inning until the end of the game. Calls 
that are challenged will be reviewed by a crew in MLB headquarters in New 
York City, which will make the final ruling.[19] Following the conclusion 
of the 2013 World Series, MLB announced it would test expanded instant 
replay as proposed for 2014 for a week's slate of games in the Arizona 
Fall League.[20] During the second inning of the Tuesday, November 5 Solar 
Sox-Rafters game played at Talking Stick, first base umpire Sean Barber 
ruled batter CJ Cron out at first base on a close play. Manager Bill Richardson 
approached plate umpire Hal Gibson to challenge the play, initiating the 
first video review conducted by off-field umpires and relayed via headset 
to the plate umpire; Barber's out call was upheld after the review. In 
total, four plays were reviewed during the debut game, with instant replay 
affirming the umpire's on-field call all four times.[21] The first overturned 
call occurred during November 6's Rafters-Scorpions game when umpires used 
replay to reverse an out call on a stolen base attempt. The game also featured 
a rare multi-replay challenge, as video review upheld two umpiring calls 
in one play — batter Kyle Kubitza's touch of second base as well as his 
slide into third base ahead of a tag.[22] In total, fifteen calls were 
challenged with three overturned upon instant replay review, resulting 
in a 20% overturn rate.[23] To accommodate the anticipated expansion of 
instant replay, MLB promoted seven minor league umpires to the full-time 
major league staff on January 14, 2014.[24] Two days later, on January 
16, MLB officially announced the approval of expanded instant replay for 
use during the 2014 season, whose terms were modified after negotiations 
with the MLBPA and WUA.[25] According to its terms, managers will be allotted 
one challenge per game (two if the first challenge results in an overturned 
call) while the umpiring crew chief will be empowered to initiate a review 
in innings 7 and later. The umpires will also be allowed to review a home 
run call at any time, even during innings #1-6. Once a call is challenged 
an umpire requests a video review, fellow umpires in New York's Replay 
Operations Center will watch video of the play in question using the "indisputable 
video evidence" standard when deciding whether to overturn a call. The 
following plays will be reviewable under the system: Judgment calls not 
specified above, including, but not limited to, pitches called ball or 
strike, obstruction, interference, the infield fly rule, and checked swings 
are not reviewable. On March 31, 2014, the first instant replay challenge 
logged was sent by former MLB.com logger Drew "Cashmere" Schaefer with 
the MLB Replay Tech in NYC being Timothy Akins[26] as Chicago Cubs manager 
Rick Renteria challenged a potential double play in the top of fifth inning 
against the Pittsburgh Pirates, disputing the call on the field that pitcher 
Jeff Samardzija was out at first. The umpires confirmed the call on the 
field, and the Cubs lost the challenge. From announcement of the challenge 
to confirmation of the call, the process took 1 minute and 40 seconds, 
longer than MLB's hope for 60 to 90 seconds per review. Later that day, 
the first successful challenge took place when Atlanta Braves manager Fredi 
González challenged the call of a Ryan Braun single. It was overturned 
to an out in a review that took 58 seconds, although the Braves lost the 
game to the Milwaukee Brewers 2-0; coincidentally, former Brewers owner 
and MLB commissioner Bud Selig was in attendance for the first successful 
challenge. Moments later, the aforementioned Cubs–Pirates game had the 
second overturned call (and the first in extra innings) when Emilio Bonifacio 
was called safe on a pickoff attempt by Bryan Morris. Pirates manager Clint 
Hurdle successfully challenged the call, and was said to influence the 
outcome of the game, a 1-0 Pirates victory.[27] Finally, the first umpire-initiated 
review took place in a game between the Oakland Athletics and Cleveland 
Indians when umpire Mike Winters wanted to confirm that Oakland catcher 
John Jaso did not unnecessarily block the plate as Michael Brantley attempted 
to score.[28] As of the 2014 All-Star Break, instant replay was generally 
well received by managers, players, and umpires. Managers challenged 606 
calls, or an average of one every 2.35 games, of which 52% were overturned. 
Including situations where umpires request the Replay Operations Center 
to review a call, 47.7% of calls are overturned. However, MLB informally 
allows up to 30 seconds to have the team's video coordinator signal a call 
to the manager. When situations where the manager comes out on the field 
to await a decision from a team video coordinator are included, MLB estimates 
the percentage of calls overturned decreases to 21%. The average replay 
review takes one minute and fifty seconds, which is higher than MLB's original 
goal of 90 seconds per review.[29] One side effect has been the addition 
of 12 new umpires, the most since 1999, to MLB staff, due to the need to 
staff the Replay Operations Center with two crews. However, statistics 
show that umpiring quality has remained constant despite the additions, 
with four out of the top seven umpires with reversals those who have umpired 
more than 1,600 games.[29] The following changes were made in 2015:[30] 
