In baseball, an intentional base on balls, usually referred to as an intentional 
walk and denoted in baseball scorekeeping by IBB, is a walk issued to a 
batter by a pitcher with the intent of removing the batter's opportunity 
to swing at the pitched ball. A pitch that is intentionally thrown far 
outside the strike zone for this purpose is referred to as an intentional 
ball. Informally, it is often referred to as a "four-finger salute". This 
reference stems from the manager's holding up four fingers to signal an 
intentional walk to his pitcher or catcher. When a batter receives an intentional 
base on balls, he is entitled to take first base without being put out. 
Receiving an intentional base on balls does not count as an official at 
bat for a batter, but does count as a plate appearance and a base on balls. 
A ball that is thrown intentionally for the purpose of giving up an intentional 
base on balls is called an intentional ball. A base on balls counts as 
an intentional base on balls if and only if the final pitch thrown in the 
plate appearance is an intentional ball, even if not all the pitches are 
intentional balls. Before the 1920 season, catchers typically stood far 
to the side of the plate to receive intentional balls. In an effort to 
increase scoring and attendance and end the so-called dead ball era, major 
league baseball team owners (at the annual rules meeting in Chicago on 
February 9, 1920) attempted to ban the intentional base on balls by instituting 
a penalty that an intentional ball be counted as a balk (which would award 
each runner the next base). Veteran NL umpire Hank O'Day argued successfully 
against the proposal and the owners succeeded only in mandating that "the 
catcher must stand with both feet within the lines of the catcher's box 
until the ball leaves the pitcher's hand", a rule still in force today. 
When pitching an intentional ball, the pitcher will generally throw to 
an area several feet outside the plate, where it would be physically impossible 
for the batter to hit the ball. The pitcher still has to be careful that 
he doesn't allow runners to advance via a balk or a wild pitch. In addition, 
the batter can choose to swing at an intentional ball, although this almost 
never occurs since it is rarely to the batter's advantage. However, in 
the modern era of baseball (1900 and later), twelve times in Major League 
history, a batter has swung at a pitch thrown outside for the purpose of 
intentionally walking the batter and put the ball in play. In 9 of those 
12 times the batter reached first base safely (six by hits, one by fielder's 
choice and two by errors). The batter's team won in all nine of those instances. 
The most recent such occurrence happened during a June 22, 2006 game between 
the Florida Marlins and the Baltimore Orioles. The Marlins' Miguel Cabrera 
hit an intentional ball thrown by Todd Williams during the 10th inning 
resulting in a run scored for the Marlins that proved to be the game winning 
run.[1] Outside the professional leagues however, such as in high school 
or college baseball but not Little League Baseball, the manager may simply 
ask the plate umpire to let the batter go to first instead of having the 
pitcher waste four outside pitches. The purpose of an intentional walk 
is to bypass the current hitter in order to face the following batter whom 
the defensive team expects a better chance of getting out, to set up a 
double play ball by putting a runner on first base, or to set up a force 
play at any base in situations where the batter's run cannot affect the 
outcome of the game (ex: bottom of the 9th or beyond, runner on second 
and third, visiting team ahead by one run). In situations other than these, 
issuing intentional walks is typically seen as bad strategy, as the danger 
of them is that an extra runner is now on base for the following hitter. 
Practically any runner has a better chance of scoring a run from first 
base (as on a double or triple or two singles, among other following events) 
through the actions of later batters than the batter has of hitting a home 
run. Barry Bonds holds most of the records for intentional walks, including 
four in a nine-inning game (2004), 120 in a season (2004),[2] and 668 in 
his career (more than the next two players on the all-time list, Albert 
Pujols (299) and Hank Aaron (293), combined).[3] Bonds, a prolific home 
run hitter, was a common target for the intentional walk. Nevertheless, 
many times the decision to walk Bonds was a futile strategy, as the San 
Francisco Giants still had the National League's second-best offense in 
2004, scoring 820 runs. In the first month of the 2004 baseball season, 
Bonds drew 43 walks, 22 of them intentional. He broke his previous record 
of 68 intentional walks, set in 2002, on July 10, 2004 in his last appearance 
before the All-Star break. There are claims that Mel Ott was also intentionally 
walked four times in a game against the Phillies in 1929. The claim has 
not been confirmed (intentional walks have only been an officially tracked 
statistic since 1955) and the evidence suggests otherwise. Mel Ott was 
tied with Chuck Klein for the season home run title in 1929 and the Phillies 
manager told the pitcher to pitch around Ott so he wouldn't pass Klein 
for the title. When Ott received his bases-loaded walk he was facing a 
3-2 pitch count suggesting that the walk was not intentional. Hideki Matsui 
drew five consecutive intentional walks in a game in Japanese High School 
Baseball Championship at Koshien Stadium in 1992 and became a nationwide 
topic of conversation.[4] In the history of Major League Baseball, six 
players have been issued intentional walks with the bases loaded (thus 
giving the batting team an automatic run). This is only done in the rarest 
of cases, typically when the pitching team is leading by four runs or less 
late in the game and a particularly feared hitter is at the plate. The 
six players given such passes are Abner Dalrymple (1881), Nap Lajoie (1901), 
Del Bissonette (1928), Bill Nicholson (1944), Barry Bonds (1998), and Josh 
Hamilton (2008). In all six cases, the pitching team went on to win the 
