The International Baseball League of Australia was a baseball league which 
existed from 1999 to 2002. The league was created by David Nilsson after 
he purchased the rights to the Australian Baseball League in 1999 when 
it was near financial collapse. The International Baseball League lasted 
for 3 seasons before Nilsson handed the rights back over to the Australian 
Baseball Federation in 2002. Following the collapse there was no professional 
baseball league until it was announced in 2009 the formation of the new 
Australian Baseball League starting in 2010. The idea behind the International 
Baseball League of Australia was to be a winter league from November to 
January as a means to help gain off-season competition for players centered 
in Asia and the United States.[1] The 1999-2000 season was conducted as 
a National League with a team based in each of the major Australian mainland 
cites and a second team based in Country New South Wales. The development 
league and All-Star game were not held in this season. The Western Heelers 
defeated the Queensland Rams 2 games to 1 in the Championship series held 
at Palm Meadows. The IBLA Most Valuable Player Award for this season was 
awarded to Chris Snelling, playing for Country NSW. The 2000-01 season 
saw the National League and All-Star game canceled with the Development 
League being held on the Gold Coast at Palm Meadows, The development league 
was held between 4 teams; IBLA Internationals, IBLA Australia, MLB All-Stars 
and the Taiwan National Team. The development league was won by IBLA Internationals 
who defeated IBLA Australia 2-1 in the Championship game. 2002 was the 
final season of the IBLA, The league reverted to the traditional Claxton 
Shield format and held at a single venue, the Melbourne Ballpark. It was 
competed between all the major mainland states of Australia and a new Australian 
Provincial team. The 2002 league featured no Development League and no 
All-Star game. The Victoria Aces defeated Western Heelers in the Championship 
