The International Baseball Federation (Spanish: Federación Internacional 
de Béisbol, French: Fédération international de baseball) is the former 
worldwide governing body recognized by the International Olympic Committee 
as overseeing, deciding and executing the policy of the sport of baseball. 
The IBAF has since become the international baseball "Division" of the 
World Baseball Softball Confederation, the officially recognized world 
governing body for baseball (and softball). One of its principal responsibilities 
under the WBSC is to organize, standardize and sanction international competitions 
among baseball's 124 national governing bodies through its various tournaments 
to determine a world champion and calculate world rankings for both men's 
and women's baseball. Prior to the establishment of the WBSC, which has 
since superseded its authority, the IBAF had been the lone entity that 
can assign the title of "world champion" to any baseball team delegated 
to represent a nation. Its offices are housed within the WBSC headquarters 
in Lausanne, Switzerland—the Olympic Capital. The first-ever international 
baseball event was a series of exhibition games that took place during 
the 1904 Summer Olympic Games in St. Louis, United States. The exhibition 
proved so successful that it was given an encore at the 1912 Summer Olympic 
Games in Stockholm, Sweden. The two popular showings in St. Louis and Stockholm 
laid the groundwork for baseball's international surge in popularity, leading 
the sport to be placed onto the program as an exhibition sport at the 1936 
Summer Olympic Games. This exhibition was extremely well received as 92,565 
spectators filled the Olympic Stadium in Berlin to watch a game between 
two teams from the USA. Following the success of Berlin, the first ever 
Baseball World Cup was organized in London, England in August 1938. The 
United States and Great Britain engaged in five games, of which the British 
won four. The growth of baseball competitions involving the representation 
of countries, coupled with the birth of the Baseball World Cup, provided 
the need for an institution to help develop, organize, regulate and oversee 
these events, thus the International Baseball Federation was established 
in 1938. Conflicts of World War II prompted the IOC to cancel the Summer 
Games that had been scheduled to take place in Tokyo in 1940 and in London 
in 1944, thereby halting baseball's tour as a demonstration sport. Nevertheless, 
by 1950, the IBAF was able to expand the format of the Baseball World Cup 
that was contested in Managua, Nicaragua to 12 participating countries. 
In 1951, the Pan American Games were established and baseball was on the 
official program from the onset. In 1952, a Finnish version of baseball 
(Pesäpallo) was a demonstration sport at the 1952 Summer Olympics in Helsinki, 
Finland. In April 1953, Belgium, France, Germany, Italy and Spain came 
together to establish what is now known as the Confederation of European 
Baseball and organized the first ever European Baseball Championship a 
year later. The Baseball Federation of Asia (BFA) was founded in May 1954 
as the second continental confederation under the umbrella of the IBAF. 
The BFA wasted little time in organizing its first continental tournament, 
as it celebrated the Asian Baseball Championship in December of that same 
year in Manila, Philippines. The exposure of baseball to an international 
audience continued at the 1956 Summer Olympic Games, which saw approximately 
114,000 spectators slowly fill the Melbourne Cricket Ground to witness 
Australia vs. USA in a demonstration contest in Melbourne, Australia. This 
crowd of 114,000 was registered as a Guinness World Record for the largest 
attendance for any single baseball game. (The record lasted over 50 years 
before it was broken at a March 29, 2008 Major League Baseball exhibition 
game between the Boston Red Sox and Los Angeles Dodgers that drew 115,300 
people to the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum.) Baseball as an Olympic demonstration 
sport was finally able to take its act to Asia at the 1964 Summer Olympic 
Games in Tokyo, Japan, where baseball was already exceptionally popular. 
At the following Summer Olympic Games in 1968, a selection of premier U.S. 
college players defeated the Cuban national team twice in Mexico City to 
win the tournament. In 1973, the IBAF added the Intercontinental Cup to 
its tournament program. In 1978, the IOC awarded the hosting rights of 
the 1984 Summer Olympics to Los Angeles, and Robert Smith quickly went 
to work, in his capacity as a member of the United States Olympic Committee 
prior to becoming IBAF President, to reestablish baseball as part of the 
Olympic Programme. Smith reached out to the then-Los Angeles Dodgers owner, 
Peter O'Malley, and University of Southern California head baseball coach 
and subsequent College Baseball Hall of Fame inductee, Rod Dedeaux. The 
group organized an IBAF congress the following year in Los Angeles in order 
to establish an Olympic Baseball Committee. Through these efforts, baseball 
was again categorized as a demonstration sport and an eight-team tournament 
was organized at Dodger Stadium, as part of the official Summer Olympic 
Programme. The present IBAF President, Riccardo Fraccari, was the head 
umpire of the championship game. A third branch of the IBAF continental 
confederations formed in 1985. The Pan American Baseball Confederation 
(COPABE) was finally established after it was deemed necessary due to the 
strong expansion and increase of the national member federations stemming 
from the Olympic Baseball Committee campaign. In 1986, a historic IOC vote 
put baseball onto the Olympic Programme as a medal sport for the 1992 Olympic 
Games in Barcelona, Spain. Baseball would travel to Seoul, Korea for the 
1988 Summer Olympic Games. This was the final time the IBAF, in conjunction 
with the IOC, would organize baseball as a demonstration sport at the Olympics 
before it became an official medal sport in 1992. In 1989, the Baseball 
Confederation of Oceania (BCO) was established as the 4th branch of the 
IBAF. The African Baseball and Softball Association (ABSA) was formed soon 
after the BCO in June 1990 in Lagos, Nigeria Baseball was played up in 
a traditional amateur format up until the 1996 Summer Olympic Games in 
Atlanta, USA. In 1998, the IBAF, MLB and Major League Baseball Players 
Association reached an agreement to allow the participation of professional 
players in international competition. Team USA used a minor league selection 
to beat Cuba in the gold medal game at the 2000 Summer Olympic Games in 
Sydney, Australia. Cuba regained the world title, defeating Australia for 
the gold medal at the 2004 Summer Olympic Games in Athens, Greece. On July 
7, 2005, the IOC Session voted to remove baseball and softball from the 
2012 Summer Olympics program. Baseball made its last Olympic appearance 
and Korea took the gold medal at the 2008 Summer Games in Beijing, China. 
The IBAF, under President Harvey Schiller, attempted to reinstate baseball 
onto the Olympic Programme, but the IOC vote of August 2009 kept baseball 
off the 2016 program, as golf and rugby were selected. In February 2011, 
Dr. Harvey Schiller was appointed as a member of the IOC's Women and Sport 
Commission.[1] On April 1, 2011, the IBAF, under first-year President Riccardo 
Fraccari, and the International Softball Federation announced that they 
were studying how to prepare a joint proposal in order to revive play of 
both sports at the 2020 Summer Olympics.[2] As part of that proposal, in 
April 2013, the two organizations began the process of merging into a new 
combined federation that will govern both sports,[3] the World Baseball 
Softball Confederation (WBSC).[4] The International Baseball Federation 
currently oversees and organizes the following world championship tournaments: 
The first-ever 12U Baseball World Championship was played in Taipei from 
July 8 to 17, 2011. Taiwan won the first title. In addition, the IBAF is 
the sanctioning body for the World Baseball Classic, which is hosted by 
Major League Baseball and the Major League Baseball Players Association 
and held every four years in the year after the Summer Olympics. The IBAF 
abandoned its former world championship, the Baseball World Cup, after 
the 2011 edition in favor of an expanded World Baseball Classic. It was 
originally intended to be the sanctioning body for the Premier 12, a new 
men's international tournament -- featuring the twelve best-ranked national 
teams -- that began in 2015; that tournament instead has been sanctioned 
by the WBSC. This event is played in the year preceding the Summer Olympics. 
The IBAF discontinued the Intercontinental Cup, which was an invitational 
event and last held in 2010. Estimated data,[5] according to the IBAF, 
as of April 2011: The IBAF comprises five continental confederations that 
currently represent a total of 127 national member federations. (*) Aldo 
Notari died during the period as the president, thus the first vice president, 
Tom Peng of Taiwan, served as acting president from July 2006 to 2007.[6][7][8][9] 
See also: Baseball awards of the International Baseball Fedederation (IBAF) 
