Interstate 70 (I-70) is a major Interstate Highway in the United States 
that runs from I-15 near Cove Fort, Utah to I-695 near Baltimore, Maryland. 
I-70 approximately traces the path of U.S. Route 40 (US 40, the old National 
Road) east of the Rocky Mountains. West of the Rockies, the route of I-70 
was derived from multiple sources. The Interstate runs through many major 
cities that include Denver, Kansas City, St. Louis, Indianapolis, Columbus, 
Pittsburgh and Baltimore. The sections of the interstate in Missouri and 
Kansas have laid claim to be the first interstate in the United States.[2] 
The Federal Highway Administration has claimed the section of I-70 through 
Glenwood Canyon, completed in 1992, was the last piece of the Interstate 
Highway system, as originally planned, to open to traffic.[3] The construction 
of I-70 in Colorado and Utah is considered an engineering marvel as the 
route passes through the Eisenhower Tunnel, Glenwood Canyon, and the San 
Rafael Swell. The Eisenhower Tunnel is the highest point along the Interstate 
Highway system with an elevation of 11,158 ft (3,401 m). Interstate 70 
begins at an interchange with Interstate 15 near Cove Fort. Heading east, 
I-70 crosses between the Tushar and Pahvant ranges via Clear Creek Canyon 
and descends into the Sevier Valley, where I-70 serves Richfield, the only 
town of more than a few hundred people along I-70's path in Utah. Upon 
leaving the valley near Salina, I-70 crosses 7,923 ft (2,415 m) Salina 
Summit and then crosses a massive geologic formation called the San Rafael 
Swell. Prior to the construction of I-70, the swell was inaccessible via 
paved roads and relatively undiscovered. Once this 108 mi (174 km) section 
was opened to traffic in 1970, it became the longest stretch of interstate 
highway with no services and the first highway in the U.S. built over a 
completely new route since the Alaska Highway.[4] It also became the longest 
piece of interstate highway to be opened at one time.[5] Although opened 
in 1970, this section was not formally complete until 1990, when a second 
steel arch bridge spanning Eagle Canyon was opened to traffic. Since I-70's 
construction, the swell has been noted for its desolate beauty. The swell 
has since been nominated for National Park and/or National Monument status 
on multiple occasions. If the swell is granted this status it arguably 
would be the first time a National Park owes its existence to an interstate 
highway. Most of the exits in this span are rest areas, brake check areas, 
and runaway truck ramps with few traditional freeway exits. I-70 exits 
the swell near Green River. From Green River to the Colorado state line, 
I-70 follows the southern edge of the Book Cliffs. Entering from Utah, 
I-70 descends into the Grand Valley where it meets the Colorado River, 
which provides its path up the western slope of the Rocky Mountains. Here 
I-70 serves the Grand Junction metro area before traversing more mountainous 
terrain. The last section of I-70 to be completed was the 15-mile (24 km) 
Glenwood Canyon. This stretch was completed in 1992 and was an engineering 
marvel due to the extremely difficult terrain and narrow space in the canyon, 
which requires corners that are sharper than normal Interstate standards. 
Construction was delayed for many years due to environmental concerns. 
The difficulties in building the road in the canyon were compounded by 
the fact that the Denver & Rio Grande Western railroad occupied the south 
bank and many temporary construction projects took place to keep US 6 open, 
at the time the only east–west road in the area. Much of the highway is 
elevated above the Colorado River. The speed limit in this section is 50 mph 
(80 km/h) due to the limited sight distance and sharp corners. The Eisenhower–Johnson 
Memorial Tunnel, the highest vehicular tunnel in North America and the 
longest tunnel built under the Interstate program, passes through the Continental 
Divide. Because of the rugged and narrow terrain of the Rocky Mountains, 
I-70 is one of few roads connecting Colorado's ski resorts with Denver. 
Descending through the eastern foothills of the Rocky Mountains, the Denver 
skyline can be seen on a clear day. This can fool truckers and other unsuspecting 
drivers because there is still over 10 miles (16 km) of steep grade road 
before reaching the city. A series of signs warns truckers of the steep 
grade. As I-70 leaves the foothills, it goes through Denver and intersects 
Interstate 25, serving as the central east-west artery through the city. 
Leaving Denver, I-70 levels out and traverses the wide plains through eastern 
Colorado. East of Denver, I-70 makes a broad turn to the south-southeast 
for 30 miles (48 km) before reaching Limon and resuming its eastward journey 
toward Kansas. Coming from Colorado, I-70 enters the prairie, farmlands, 
and rolling hills of Kansas. This portion of I-70 was the first segment 
to start being paved and to be completed in the Interstate Highway System. 
It is given the nickname "Main Street of Kansas" as the interstate extends 
from the western border to the eastern border covering 424 miles (682 km) 
and passing through most of the state's principal cities in the process. 
In Salina, I-70 intersects with I-135, the longest "spur" route in the 
Interstate system,[6] forming the latter's northern terminus. In Topeka, 
I-70 intersects I-470, twice. At the eastern intersection, the Kansas Turnpike 
merges, with I-70 becoming a toll road. This is one of only two sections 
of I-70 that are tolled. (The other is part of the Pennsylvania Turnpike.) 
I-70 carries this designation from Topeka to Kansas City, the eastern terminus 
of the turnpike. About halfway between Topeka and Kansas City, Kansas, 
I-70 passes through Lawrence (home to the University of Kansas). The tolled 
portion of the turnpike ends near Tonganoxie, just west of Kansas City. 
There is also a third child route in Topeka, I-335, which runs from I-470 
south to meet up with I-35 in the Flint Hills town of Emporia. Just past 
the Tonganoxie Toll Plaza I-70 crosses I-435 for the first time, which 
allows travelers to bypass the downtown traffic via I-435, which encircles 
the Kansas City metropolitan area. Further down the highway in Kansas City, 
Kansas, approximately 3 miles (4.8 km) before the 18th Street Expressway, 
I-70 is intersected again by another child route. This route, I-635, runs 
from I-35 at its southern terminus up to I-29, just about 5 miles (8.0 km) 
across the Missouri River, at its northern terminus. From I-635 to just 
past the 7th Street (US 169) exit, I-70 runs adjacent Union Pacific's Armourdale 
Yard. Here I-670 (also designated "Alternate 70" on some signs) diverges, 
providing a more direct route that rejoins I-70 proper a few miles east 
in Missouri. The highway passes over the former stockyards and rail yard 
when it crosses the Kansas River on the Lewis & Clark Viaduct into downtown 
Kansas City, Missouri.[7] After crossing the Lewis & Clark Viaduct, I-70 
enters Missouri. It encounters a loop of freeways, called the Alphabet 
Loop, which contains I-70 as well as I-35, I-670, US 24, US 40, US 71, 
and US 169. In the southern part of this loop, I-670 cuts directly through 
the downtown while I-70 bypasses the taller buildings a few blocks north 
near the Missouri River. Westbound I-670 is also designated Alternate I-70. 
Most of the interstates in this loop are in their second mile, so all exits 
(no matter which interstate carries the road) are numbered 2 and suffixed 
with every letter of the alphabet except for I, O, and Z. The section of 
I-70 in Downtown Kansas City is approximately the southern city limits 
of "City of Kansas" when it was incorporated in 1853. The first two auto 
bridges in Missouri mark the city's original boundaries with the Buck O'Neil 
Bridge (US 169) being the west boundary while the Heart of America Bridge 
(Route 9) is the east boundary. Another intersection of note is the second 
traverse of I-435. This is primarily notable because it immediately precedes 
the Truman Sports Complex (home of both Arrowhead Stadium and Kauffman 
Stadium) and also because the entrance ramps from I-435 northbound onto 
I-70 eastbound also serve as the exit ramps from I-70 into the Truman Sports 
Complex parking lots. This section of the Interstate is marked as the "George 
Brett Super Highway", named after the Kansas City Royals third baseman 
who played the entirety of his career (1973–1993) at the K. The last interstate 
intersection in the immediate Kansas City metro area is with I-470 in Independence. 
After passing Kansas City, I-70 traverses the length of Missouri, west 
to east. It passes through the largest city between Kansas City and St. 
Louis, Columbia, which is about halfway between the two major cities, and 
the home of the University of Missouri. The terrain is rolling with some 
hills and bluffs near rivers. I-70 also crosses the Missouri River twice 
(as did the original US 40)--at Rocheport, about 15 miles (24 km) west 
of Columbia, and at St. Charles, about 20 miles (32 km) northwest of St. 
Louis. Most of the highway on this stretch is four-lane. Various proposals 
have been made to widen it (at an estimated cost of $3.5 billion) including 
turning it into a toll road.[8] I-70 eventually gets into the St. Louis 
metro area and US 40 splits to the south, along with US 61, which does 
not have a concurrency with I-70. In late 2009, the intersecting road was 
upgraded to Interstate standards along with the completion of the overhaul 
of I-64.[9] After this interchange, I-70 intersects two child routes, I-270 
and I-170. After passing several bedroom communities in north St. Louis 
County, I-70 enters the city limits of St. Louis. It turns east to cross 
the Mississippi River on the Stan Musial Veterans Memorial Bridge, connecting 
with a spur of I-44, which takes the former I-70 route through Downtown 
St. Louis to meet I-55 at its connection to the Poplar Street Bridge. The 
1985 World Series between the Kansas City Royals and St. Louis Cardinals 
was nicknamed the "I-70 Series" because St. Louis and Kansas City are the 
two endpoints of I-70 in Missouri and the highway passed both the Cardinals' 
Busch Stadium and the Royals' Kauffman Stadium. After crossing the Stan 
Musial Veterans Memorial Bridge, I-70 merges with I-55, while I-64 splits 
off I-55 and I-55 and I-70 become concurrent. When the routes intersect 
I-270, I-55 stays on its own pavement using the mileposts from the Poplar 
Street Bridge, while I-70 heads east on I-270's pavement using I-270's 
mileposts. So when I-55/70 intersects I-270 from the southeast, the exit 
numbers would be 20 A/B, whereas if I-70 intersects I-55/270 from the east, 
it would be exits 15 A–B. I-70 was rerouted from the Poplar Street Bridge 
to the Stan Musial Veterans Memorial Bridge north of downtown St. Louis, 
which opened in February 2014. I-70 passes through numerous county seats 
in Illinois, among them Vandalia, the state capital from 1818 to 1839. 
It runs concurrently with I-57 around Effingham, then proceeds east towards 
Indiana. I-70 enters Indiana just to the west of Terre Haute and then crosses 
the Wabash River before skirting the south side of that city. After passing 
through many miles of gently rolling terrain in rural west-central Indiana, 
the freeway approaches the major metropolitan area of Indianapolis. The 
main entrance to Indianapolis International Airport was relocated to I-70's 
exit 68 on November 11, 2008. Upon nearing the central business district 
of Indiana's capital city, the visages of Lucas Oil Stadium and the newly 
constructed (in 2011) JW Marriott Indianapolis hotel, with the city's skyline 
as their backdrop, now dominate the view to the north from the freeway. 
After passing just to the south of the world headquarters for Eli Lilly 
& Co., I-70 and Interstate 65 have a brief multiplex through the eastern 
side of downtown Indianapolis. The junction points of these two major routes 
are known locally as the south split and north split respectively. It is 
also noteworthy that the other two-digit Interstates serving Indianapolis 
do not reach the city's core. As a result, I-70 motorists must use the 
I-465 beltway in order to reach I-69 without leaving the Interstate System, 
while those similarly bound for I-74 access that route via its concurrency 
around the southern portion of the I-465 loop. After passing through much 
of the near northeast side of Indianapolis, I-70 again encounters the I-465 
beltway (which carries a multitude of unsigned U.S. and Indiana state highways). 
I-70 continues on nearly due east from this point, first traveling through 
suburban Indianapolis, then transitioning into rural east central Indiana, 
where it passes just to the south of the city of New Castle. Upon reaching 
the Richmond area, US 35 joins I-70 just before both routes leave the Hoosier 
State together and enter Ohio. Interstate 70 enters Ohio just east of the 
interchange with US 40 at Richmond, Indiana. Immediately to the east of 
this border, travelers notice a unique teal-blue arch that spans the width 
of the freeway, with a "Welcome to Ohio" greeting sign above the eastbound 
lanes. A sign thanking travelers for visiting Ohio is mounted on the other 
side of the arch for westbound travelers. Continuing eastbound, I-70 intersects 
I-75 north of Dayton, followed by I-675 on the east side of Dayton. Springfield 
is the next city, site of Buck Creek State Park. I-70 then encounters the 
largest city in Ohio, Columbus. Columbus is bounded by I-270, and is roughly 
centered on the intersection of I-70 and I-71, which share the same asphalt 
through a notoriously congested 1.5-mile (2.4 km) stretch locally known 
as the "South Innerbelt" or, more commonly, "The Split." This stretch has 
I-71 concurrent with I-70, where I-71 enters and exits from opposite sides 
of I-70, causing traffic getting on I-70 from I-71 northbound to have to 
cross four lanes of I-70 traffic to continue on I-71. A similar issue is 
present for southbound I-71 traffic as well. The Split will be reconstructed 
within the next few years. I-670 connects Port Columbus International Airport 
with I-270, I-71, and I-70. East of Columbus, I-70 passes through Zanesville 
and on to Cambridge, where it intersects I-77. Continuing on towards West 
Virginia, I-70 intersects I-470 just east of St. Clairsville. I-470 is 
primarily used for through traffic, and to avoid The Festival of Lights 
traffic during the Christmas season. In March 1995, a hole (from a former 
coal mine) opened up on the eastbound side of I-70 in Guernsey County near 
Old Washington and caused traffic to be rerouted onto US 40 between Old 
Washington and Cambridge for several months. The portion of I-70 in West 
Virginia crosses the Ohio River at Wheeling and runs through the Wheeling 
Tunnel. I-70 has only one through lane in each direction at the tunnel. 
A major interchange was planned but never completed on the east side of 
the Wheeling Tunnel. Upon merging with I-470, I-70 goes uphill towards 
Dallas Pike, West Virginia, This part of the road is called "Two Mile Hill", 
which is known locally for the many accidents at the bottom of the hill. 
I-70 has brought major development in Ohio County, the only county the 
route passes through in West Virginia, in the past few years. On the north 
side of the highway a former strip mine is being developed into a retail 
area called the Highlands. This stretch of I-70 is the shortest that I-70 
is in any state, traveling only 15 miles (24 km) from the Ohio River to 
the Pennsylvania border. I-70 was initially envisioned to go through downtown 
Pittsburgh but now goes south of it. Its originally planned route was later 
incorporated into I-376, as well as parts of I-76 and I-79. I-70 also overlaps 
I-79 near the Pittsburgh suburb of Washington for three miles (4.8 km). 
The 38 miles (61 km) of I-70 between Washington and New Stanton is a sub-standard 
section of the highway. This section of I-70 used to be PA 71. It is characterized 
by sharp curves, limited sight distance, narrow shoulders, and lack of 
merge lanes at interchanges. Traffic on clover leaf ramps must weave in 
the right through lane of traffic due to the lack of a third lane for entering 
and exiting traffic. Other on and off ramps effectively function as right-in/right-out 
interchanges, forcing vehicles to weave in and out of the exit lane. The 
speed limit on this stretch is 55 miles per hour (89 km/h). From New Stanton 
to Breezewood, I-70 overlaps I-76 and the Pennsylvania Turnpike. This is 
one of only two tolled sections of I-70 (the other is in Kansas, where 
the portion of the Kansas Turnpike east of Topeka is signed I-70). Drivers 
on I-70 near Breezewood have to leave the freeway and travel a few blocks 
on US 30 past several traffic lights before returning to the freeway.[10] 
This stretch of I-70 is one of the few gaps on the Interstate Highway System. 
I-70 continues on almost due south to the Maryland border after leaving 
I-76 (Pennsylvania Turnpike) at Breezewood. This section is posted at 55 
miles per hour (89 km/h) and is heavily patrolled. After the border, it 
meets I-68's eastern end and turns east towards Baltimore and Washington, 
D.C. In Maryland, I-70 runs from the Pennsylvania state line near Hancock 
east across the central portion of the state towards Baltimore, following 
the route of the National Road, now known as US 40. It is the major east–west 
highway in the state, serving the cities of Hagerstown and Frederick and 
bypassing Ellicott City. East of Frederick, the route was originally designated 
Interstate 70N. The highway serves Washington, D.C., via I-270, which was 
once designated Interstate 70S. Uniquely, I-70 indirectly serves a branch 
of the Washington Metro at Shady Grove via I-370, which only connects to 
I-270. I-70 was planned to end at I-95 in Baltimore, but due to local opposition, 
it was only built to Maryland Route 122 (MD 122). Besides being the first 
Interstate to receive a contract for pavement,[citation needed] other oddities 
happened with I-70 as well: As first proposed, the western terminus of 
I-70 was Denver, Colorado. Utah and Colorado pressured the federal government 
to extend the plans for I-70 farther west, arguing that a direct link between 
Denver and Salt Lake City, Utah, was vital for an effective highway system. 
The proposal was to follow what is now US 6 west and connect to I-15 at 
Spanish Fork, Utah. Federal planners (influenced by the military) agreed 
to extend the proposed route of I-70, but not to serve Salt Lake. The military 
wanted to better connect southern California with the Northeastern U.S. 
This led to I-70's constructed route through the San Rafael Swell terminating 
at Cove Fort. Many motorists include I-70 as part of their cross-country 
drives between New York City and Los Angeles (which are accessible to I-70 
via other Interstates).[5] As a result of freeway revolts in the Baltimore 
area, I-70 was not completed east of MD 122 to its planned terminus on 
I-95 within the city of Baltimore, and it now ends at a four-way symmetrical 
stack interchange with I-695, the Baltimore Beltway. Until November 2014, 
I-70 ended at a Park and Ride lot at MD 122 as the freeway enters the city 
of Baltimore at exit 94. Commuters park their cars in spaces on the pavement 
where high-speed freeway lanes were to be. The former freeway from I-695 
to MD 122 is in the process of being converted into a two-lane parkway 
to be renamed Cooks Boulevard,[11] maintained by the Maryland State Highway 
Administration.[12] The highway gave its name to the I-70 Killer, a serial 
killer who committed a string of murders within a few miles of it in several 
Midwestern states in the early 1990s. No suspect has ever been apprehended 
despite the widespread publicity the murders have generated, including 
their being featured several times on the television show America's Most 
Wanted and Unsolved Mysteries. John Allen Muhammad and Lee Boyd Malvo, 
the duo responsible for the Beltway sniper attacks, were apprehended at 
a rest stop on I-70 near Myersville, Maryland, in 2002. The 1985 World 
Series was a contest between the St. Louis Cardinals and the Kansas City 
Royals, and won by the Royals. As these cities are primarily connected 
by Interstate 70, this World Series was often referred to as the I-70 Series 
in the media. I-70 has one of the closest distances between two distinct 
child interstates with the same child interstate number. I-470 near Topeka, 
Kansas and I-470 on the east side of Kansas City, Missouri are approximately 
72 miles (116 km) apart. This record is surpassed by I-291 around Hartford, 
Connecticut and I-291 near Springfield, Massachusetts which are unrelated, 
but are 23 miles (37 km) apart. A breakdown of I-70's child routes follows: 
