The International Softball Federation is the international governing body 
for the sport of softball. The ISF is a non-profit corporation recognized 
by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and SportAccord (formerly 
the General Association of International Sports Federations). The ISF organizes 
and conducts world championship competition in women's & men's fast pitch, 
junior women's & junior men's fast pitch (19-and-under), women's, men's 
& coed slow pitch, and women's & men's modified pitch. The ISF sanctions 
regional championships and provides technical support to Regional (Multi-Sport) 
Games. Additionally the ISF qualifies teams for Olympic softball competition 
in coordination with the IOC. The ISF provides the official playing rules 
for international competition including: Olympic Games, world championships, 
regional championships, regional games and other sanctioned competitions. 
As part of a campaign to return softball to the Olympic Games in time for 
2020, in April 2013, the ISF began a process of merging with the International 
Baseball Federation to form a new combined federation for both sports,[2] 
the World Baseball Softball Confederation (WBSC).[3] The ISF Hall of Fame 
has inducted members every other year since 1981. Inductees include players, 
coaches, umpires, and administrators (plus individuals in the Meritorious 
Service category). Individuals are nominated by the national governing 
body for softball in their country. Nominees are considered by the ISF 
Hall of Fame Commission. Voting is conducted at the biennial ISF congress. 
The ISF is planning to build an ISF Hall of Fame & Museum at its world 
headquarters in Plant City, Florida, USA.[4][5] The ISF Medal of Honor 
was first awarded in 1990.[6] The ISF considers some dependent territories, 
such as the British Virgin Islands, to be "countries" for the purposes 
of international competition. Those dependent territories compete separately 
from their "parent" country. There are members from every continent in 
the world, except Antarctica. The national governing body for softball 
in each of the countries listed below is considered to be a member of the 
ISF. [7] There are 18 member countries. There are 33 countries and dependent 
territories. There are 22 member countries and dependent territories. There 
are 39 countries and dependent territories. There are 12 member countries 
