The International League (IL) is a Minor League Baseball league that operates 
in the eastern United States and is headquartered in Dublin, Ohio. Like 
the Pacific Coast League and the Mexican League, it plays at the Triple-A 
level, which is one step below Major League Baseball. It was so named because 
it had teams in both the United States and Canada (and for several years 
in the 1950s in Cuba as well). However, since the relocation of the Ottawa 
Lynx to Allentown, Pennsylvania, to become the Lehigh Valley IronPigs for 
the 2008 season, all of the league's teams are now based in the U.S. The 
International League was created from the mergers of member teams from 
three precursor leagues: the Eastern League, founded in 1884; the New York 
State League, formed in 1885; and the Ontario League, also organized in 
1885. The New York State and Ontario leagues merged in 1886 to form the 
International League, and in 1887 the Eastern League was absorbed to create 
a 10-club league. The league collapsed soon afterwards, when the Northern 
teams claimed that it was too onerous to travel to the South and formed 
the International Association. Teams and league names came and went over 
the years. The League was also affected by the effort to establish the 
Federal League as a new third major league in 1914-1915, with franchises 
being added and dropped and new stadiums/ball parks built. In 1954, a franchise 
was awarded to Havana, Cuba, but due to political upheaval in that country 
it had to be moved — to Jersey City, New Jersey — in the middle of the 
1960 season. Another foray into the Caribbean failed when the newly created 
team in San Juan, Puerto Rico, added in 1961, had to be moved to Charleston, 
West Virginia, in mid-season. In 1971, an International League all-star 
team beat the New York Yankees in an exhibition game in Rochester, New 
York, before 11,000 people. In 1984, the all-stars lost to the Cleveland 
Indians in 11 innings before 11,032 fans in Columbus, Ohio, to commemorate 
the league's 100th anniversary. The International League and the American 
Association, another Triple-A league that operated in the Midwest, voted 
in 1988 to play inter-league games. The league also split into two divisions 
that year. The inter-league concept ended in 1992, but the two league divisions 
remained. In further inter-league play, in 1988, the three Triple-A leagues, 
the other being the Pacific Coast League, met to play the first Triple-A 
All-Star Game. One team was made up of All-Stars from American League affiliates 
and the other of National League affiliates. Beginning in 1998, a team 
of IL All-Stars faced off against a team of PCL All-Stars. This game was 
the first of its kind. It was played in the Buffalo Bisons' new stadium, 
Pilot Field (now known as Coca-Cola Field). Also in 1998, with the addition 
of three new teams from the disbanded American Association and the Durham 
Bulls who previously played in the Carolina League, the International League 
reorganized into three divisions: the North Division, South Division, and 
West Division. At the end of each season, the three divisional leaders 
and a wild card team square off in best-of-5 playoffs, with the winning 
team of the finals awarded the Governors' Cup, the league's championship 
trophy. Since 2006, the league champion has met to play the PCL champion 
in the Triple-A Baseball National Championship Game, a single Triple-A 
Championship game. Previous class championship series included the Junior 
World Series and the Triple-A World Series. List of Governors' Cup champions 
In 1933, the International League introduced a new playoff system, awarding 
the winner the Governors' Cup. This has become the recognized International 
