Interleague play in Major League Baseball refers to regular-season baseball 
games played between an American League (AL) team and a National League 
(NL) team. Interleague play was first introduced in the 1997 Major League 
Baseball season. Prior to that, matchups between AL teams and NL teams 
occurred only during spring training, other exhibition games (such as the 
Hall of Fame Game in Cooperstown, New York), and the World Series. Unlike 
modern interleague play, none of these contests, except for the World Series, 
counted toward official team or league records. Regular season interleague 
play was discussed for baseball's major leagues as early as 1903, when 
the two major leagues made peace and formed the National Commission as 
governing body. The first National Commission Chairman, Cincinnati President 
Augustus Hermmann, who had already been a proponent of interleague play, 
proposed an ambitious scheme in late-1904. His plan would've seen the two 
leagues' ending their seasons earlier, after approximately 116 games, "and 
then have every National League team play two games in every American League 
city, and have every American League team play two games in every National 
League city."[1][2] Another interleague play idea was floated around the 
same time by Boston Americans owner John Taylor, whose plan was for each 
league to play its full 154-game schedule, to be followed by not just a 
championship series between the two league winners, but also by series' 
between the two second-place finishers, the two third-place teams, and 
all other corresponding finishers.[2] In August 1933, several owners reacted 
favorably to a proposal by Cubs' President William L. Veeck to have teams 
play four interleague games in the middle of the season, beginning in 1934.[3] 
In December 1956, Major League owners considered a proposal by Cleveland 
general manager and minority-owner Hank Greenberg to implement limited 
interleague play beginning in 1958. Under Greenberg's proposal, each team 
would continue to play a 154-game season, with 126 within that team's league, 
and 28 against the eight clubs in the other league. The interleague games 
would be played immediately following the All-Star Game. Notably, under 
Greenberg's proposal, all results would count in regular season game standings 
and league statistics.[4] While this proposal was not adopted, the current 
system shares many elements. Bill Veeck predicted in 1963 that Major League 
Baseball would someday have interleague play.[5] While the concept was 
again considered in the 1970s,[6] it was not implemented until the 1990s, 
at least in part as an effort to renew the public's interest in MLB following 
the 1994 players' strike.[7] MLB's first regular season interleague game 
took place on June 12, 1997, as the Texas Rangers hosted the San Francisco 
Giants at The Ballpark in Arlington. There were four interleague games 
on the schedule that night, but the other three were played on the West 
Coast, so the Giants–Rangers matchup started a few hours earlier than the 
others. Texas' Darren Oliver threw the game's first pitch and San Francisco 
outfielder Glenallen Hill was the first designated hitter used in a regular-season 
game by a National League team. San Francisco's Darryl Hamilton got the 
first base hit in interleague play, while Stan Javier hit the first home 
run, leading the Giants to a 4–3 victory over the Rangers. From 1997 to 
2001, teams from the American League West played teams from the National 
League West, teams from the American League Central played teams from the 
National League Central, and so on, typically scheduled to alternate between 
home and away in consecutive years. However, in 2002, the league began 
alternating which divisions played which divisions, and thus in 2002 the 
American League East played the National League West, the American League 
Central played the National League East, and the American League West played 
the National League Central. Matchups which had been of particular interest 
prior to this format — mainly geographic rivals — were preserved. This 
is expected to be the continuing format of the interleague schedule. Corresponding 
divisions were skipped once when this rotation began, but were put back 
in the rotation in 2006. From 2002 to 2012, all interleague games were 
played prior to the All-Star Game (with the exception of games postponed 
by weather that were made up after the All-Star Game). Most games were 
played in June and early July, although beginning in 2005, interleague 
games were played during one weekend in mid-May. The designated hitter 
(DH) rule is applied in the same manner as in the World Series (and the 
All-Star Game prior to 2010). In an American League ballpark, both teams 
have the option to use a DH. In a National League ballpark, both teams' 
pitchers must bat. Some baseball observers[who?] feel it might be of better 
interest to reverse this (in other words, always follow the DH rule of 
the visiting team instead of the home team). This would expose the fans 
of the home team to the other league's rules. Fans of AL teams could see 
the strategy involved in having the pitchers bat, while fans of NL teams 
could see career-designated hitters such as Travis Hafner bat more than 
once a game in a pinch-hitting role. Teams from both leagues have both 
benefited and have been at a disadvantage when it comes to the DH rule 
in interleague play. For instance, Barry Bonds, who spent his entire career 
in the National League and actually won eight Gold Gloves earlier in his 
career, was used strictly as a DH later in his career when the San Francisco 
Giants played away interleague games due to his poor fielding.[8] Conversely, 
Boston Red Sox slugger David Ortiz, who spent his entire career in the 
American League and was the Red Sox's regular DH, was forced to play first 
base when the Red Sox had away interleague games, forcing the Sox to give 
up good defensive fielding in favor of retaining Ortiz's power hitting.[9] 
After the 2010 interleague play, the American League holds an all-time 
series advantage of 1,808–1,652 and has finished with the better record 
in interleague play for 7 straight seasons, dating back to 2004.[10] 2006 
was the most lopsided season in interleague history, with American League 
teams posting a 154–98 record against their National League counterparts.[10] 
The team with the best all-time record in interleague play is the New York 
Yankees of the AL at 144–102 (.585), followed by the Chicago White Sox 
at 143–104 (.579). The Miami Marlins holds the NL's best interleague record 
at 127–107 (.543), followed by the St. Louis Cardinals at 109–96 (.532).[10] 
In 2007, two teams — the Los Angeles Dodgers and the Baltimore Orioles 
— played six games with more than one interleague opponent. The Dodgers 
played both the Toronto Blue Jays and the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim 
while the Orioles played both the Arizona Diamondbacks and the Washington 
Nationals. This happened again in 2012 as the New York Yankees played both 
the New York Mets and the Atlanta Braves for six games. The Miami Marlins 
also did this, playing both the Tampa Bay Rays and Boston Red Sox for six 
games each. The first Civil Rights Game was an exhibition interleague game 
between the Cleveland Indians and St. Louis Cardinals in AutoZone Park 
on March 31, 2007. The first regular season Civil Rights Game was an interleague 
game between the Chicago White Sox and Cincinnati Reds in Great American 
Ball Park on June 20, 2009. Since the introduction of interleague play, 
two teams have shifted leagues: the Milwaukee Brewers from the American 
League to the National League in 1998, and the Houston Astros from the 
National League to the American League in 2013. As a result, a 2013 interleague 
series between the two teams made it the first time that two teams faced 
each other in an interleague series after both teams previously faced each 
other in an interleague series representing opposite leagues: the two teams 
met from September 1–3, 1997 (Houston in NL, Milwaukee in AL), then again 
from June 18–20, 2013 (Houston in AL, Milwaukee in NL). In both instances, 
the series took place in Houston, with the team representing the American 
League winning 2-1.[11][12] From 1998 to 2012, both teams were division 
opponents in the National League Central. The following is the text of 
Major League Baseball's policy regarding the compilation of statistics 
as a result of Interleague Play: "For the first time in the history of 
Major League Baseball, Interleague games are to be played during the regular 
season. Breaking tradition always brings about controversy and the matter 
of baseball records is no exception." "It is the opinion of Major League 
Baseball that there is no justification for compiling a new volume of records 
based on Interleague Play. On the contrary, the sovereignty of each league's 
records will be retained, and if a player or a team breaks a record against 
an Interleague opponent it will be considered a record in that league. 
In cases where two teams – as Interleague opponents – break a league or 
Major League record, that record will be annotated with the phrase 'Interleague 
game.' Streaks by both teams and individual will continue (or be halted) 
when playing Interleague opponents in the same manner as if playing against 
an intraleague opponent. In essence, records will be defined by who made 
them rather than against whom they were made." "The official statistics 
of both leagues will be kept separately as they have in the past. This 
means statistics for each team and their individual players will reflect 
their performance in games within the league and also in Interleague games 
without differentiation."[13] A list of leaders in the following categories 
is available on the MLB.com website.[14] Certain interleague matchups are 
highly anticipated each year, due to the close geographic proximity of 
the teams involved. Many cities, metropolitan areas and states contain 
at least one team in each league. In of each of these "rivalry" matchups, 
the two teams meet annually for four games, two in each ballpark. Prior 
to 2013, there were six games between the two teams, three per ballpark: 
In 2014, the 5 AL teams that qualified for the postseason (Angels, Athletics, 
Orioles, Royals, and Tigers) all had geographical rivals among the 5 NL 
teams who qualified for the postseason (Dodgers, Giants, Nationals, Cardinals, 
and Pirates, respectively). Four teams in the East and West form a "split 
rivalry" where the rivalry pairings alternate in odd- and even-numbered 
years. In the East: In the West: In the American League, each team used 
to play 18 interleague games a year, but because the National League had 
two more teams than the American, only four NL teams would play a full 
18-game interleague schedule, with the remaining twelve teams playing only 
15. With the exception of the two NL teams playing each other, all teams 
were involved in interleague play at the same time (originally in June 
and July), playing only interleague opponents until the interleague schedule 
was complete for the year. The schedule was later changed to occur only 
in June; in 2005, it was changed again to allow for more weekend interleague 
games, with each team playing one series during the third weekend in May 
and the rest in mid-to-late June (occasionally stretching into early July). 
On April 1, 2013, for the first time in major league baseball history, 
an interleague game was played on Opening Day, between the Los Angeles 
Angels of Anaheim and the Cincinnati Reds at Great American Ball Park, 
with the Angels claiming the distinction of winning that game 3-1 in 13 
innings. The Reds, however, would win the next two contests by scores of 
5-4.[17] Also, on September 29, 2013, for the first time in major league 
baseball history, an interleague game was played on the last day of the 
regular season, between the Miami Marlins and the Detroit Tigers at Marlins 
Park. The Marlins not only claimed the distinction of winning that game 
1-0 in walk-off fashion, but also saw their pitcher Henderson Álvarez pitch 
a no-hitter, marking just the 7th time a no-hitter was tossed in an interleague 
contest (including Seattle's combined no-hitter versus the Dodgers in 2012). 
With the win, the Marlins earned the sweep. As of 2012, every major league 
team has had at least one interleague series with each team in the opposing 
league. Additionally, every major league team has at least one victory 
with each team in the opposing league; the Pittsburgh Pirates 5-0 victory 
over the Oakland Athletics on July 10, 2013 marked the first time the Pirates 
defeated the A's.[18] Entering the game, A's-Pirates was the only interleague 
series (and subsequently, the only MLB series overall) that one team won 
every game.[19] Every team has also hosted and visited every other team 
at least once. On July 25–27, 2016, the San Diego Padres made their first 
ever trip to Toronto, with the Blue Jays winning two out of three games. 
The two teams had previously played in San Diego in 2004, 2010, and 2013. 
In 2013, the Houston Astros joined the American League, giving each league 
15 teams and thereby necessitating that interleague games be played throughout 
the season, including on Opening Day and during key division races all 
the way to the end of the season. This did not require expanding the total 
number of interleague games, because the probability of an interleague 
game during the Astros in the NL era was 252/2430 or about 1 in 9.6 games 
(this number is not an integer because not all teams had the same number 
of interleague games). With an odd number of teams in each league, one 
team in each league would be the "odd man out" and have to play an interleague 
game to fill out the schedule, meaning as few as 1 in 15 games could be 
interleague (14 AL teams in 7 AL games, 14 NL teams in 7 NL games and 1 
AL and 1 NL team in an interleague game). Despite this, there have been 
proposals to increase interleague play to 30 games.[20] While the increase 
to 30 games is highly unlikely for the foreseeable future, a smaller increase 
took place immediately, having every team to play 20 interleague games.[21] 
Since the 2013 season, the 20 interleague games are played in eight series. 
Each team plays one three-game series against four teams from one division 
in the other league, and two two-game series (one home, one away) against 
the remaining team in that division. Since 2002, this has been on a rotating 
basis. The remaining four games are played against a team's "natural rival" 
in two back-to-back two-game series. Should a team's natural rival be a 
member of the division they are scheduled to play as part of the yearly 
rotation (this first occurred for all teams in 2015), the team will play 
home-and-home three game series against the natural rival, home-and-home 
two game series against two other opponents (one of which takes place back-to-back 
within the same week), and single three game series against the last two 
(one home, one away). For 2013, the natural rivalry games were played from 
May 27–30. Teams played in one city on May 27 and 28, then traveled to 
the other city for games on May 29 and 30. This dynamic was repeated from 
June 15–18, 2015, except that no pairs of natural rivals played each other 
during this time. For 2014, however, these natural rivalry games were spread 
out over the season, between early May and early August. They were spread 
out even further in 2016, ranging from the second week of the season in 
April through late August. Because of the requirement of near daily interleague 
play (the only exception being if not all teams are playing) spreading 
out interleague play throughout the year, not every team will be in interleague 
play on the same day. Most days, there will be either one or three interleague 
games as the average number of interleague games per day will be 1.68 [(20 
interleague games per team x 30 teams in MLB)/(179 total days in baseball 
season (including off days and excluding the All-Star break))/2 teams per 
game]. With 15 teams in each league, the number of interleague games is 
almost always odd, with exceptions based on when teams from each of the 
AL and NL have the same off day. Doubleheaders and make-up games also apply 
should a rainout or other extended delay requires a game (or games) to 
be postponed. Since its introduction, regular-season interleague play has 
continued to be a source of controversy among baseball fans and others 
involved with the sport. Among the arguments used in favor of and in opposition 
