Intentional Talk is an hour long (during the regular season) and a 30-minute-long 
(during the offseason) talk show shown live Monday-Friday at 5:00 ET on 
MLB Network. Hosts Chris Rose and Kevin Millar talk about the major events 
in baseball.[1] It is filmed from Studio 42 of the MLB Network facility 
in Secaucus, New Jersey. Sometimes, when they are not in the studio, they 
will film the show from their houses. When this happens, the show is shown 
as a split-screen, using Cisco TelePresence, in which Chris is at his house 
in Los Angeles, California and Kevin hosts from his house (also known as 
"Studio 1-5") in Austin, Texas. Viewers are also allowed to tweet to the 
hosts during the show to voice their opinions and some of the tweets are 
shown on a marquee at the bottom of the screen, seen in "Ask Kevin" and/or 
read by Chris. During the 2011 season, MLB Network started showing a special 
one-hour, recorded Best of Intentional Talk each weekend, showcasing the 
best segments of the show from the past week to be topped off with the 
weekly, "This Week in MLB Network" segment. On the Friday, January 25, 
2013 show, they allowed viewers to call the shots. Everything on the show 
that day was fan-based, including "Ask Kevin", "Five for Friday", the Got 
HEEEEM and HELLOOOOO introduction. On Twitter, they asked for YouTube videos 
for segments, such as "What just Happened?" and "That was Awkward". The 
IT Fan Show returned for the July 24, 2013 show. On March 13, 2013, the 
show announced they were getting a new introduction for the 2013 season, 
as seen here. This was the show's first introduction change, as the older 
version was with the show since the start. The new introduction seems to 
take place in a pinball machine with slots, bumpers and a pinball going 
around signs, such as "Got HEEEEM" and "Outta Here", ending off with the 
ball hitting the word "grand slam". The intro debuted on Opening Day 2013 
(April 1, 2013). The intro and theme song changed starting with the April 
4, 2016 episode to a circus-themed intro with Rose and Millar as ringmasters 
and the theme song changed to "Ladies and Gentlemen" by Saliva. Each episode 
is uploaded to podcast applications the morning after each airing. On June 
19, 2013 Intentional Talk crossed over with the MLB Network Original Series 
MLB Now. It counted as an MLB Now episode and not an Intentional Talk episode. 
Kevin Millar guest starred on the episode while Chris Rose did not appear. 
The crossover was titled MLB Intentional Now. On January 2014 Intentional 
Talk crossed over with The Rundown. It counted as an Intentional Talk episode 
and not an Rundown episode. Matt Yallof appeared while Lauren Shehadi did 
not. The crossover was titled Intentional Rundown Talk. In February 2014 
Hot Stove crossed over with Intentional Talk. It counted as an Intentional 
Talk episode and not a Hot Stove episode. Harold Reynolds appeared while 
Matt Vasgersian did not. The crossover was titled Hot Talk. On April 14, 
2014 Intentional Talk crossed over with High Heat. It counted as a High 
Heat episode and not an Intentional Talk episode. Kevin Millar appeared 
while Chris Rose did not. The crossover was titled Intentional Heat Talk. 
Since MLB Central premiered in Spring 2015, Intentional Talk has had a 
crossover segment on MLB Central called Breakfast with the Millars. The 
segment features Kevin Millar while Chris Rose does not appear. On February 
17, 2016 Intentional Talk crossed over with Hot Stove. Chris Rose, Kevin 
Millar, Matt Vasgersian, and Harold Reynold's all appeared in the special 
crossover event. This is the first crossover in which all the main cast 
