Inwood is a neighborhood in the New York City borough of Manhattan. It 
is located on the northern tip of Manhattan Island. Inwood is physically 
bounded by the Harlem River to the north and east, and the Hudson River 
to the west. It extends southward to Fort Tryon Park and alternatively 
Dyckman Street or Fairview Avenue farther south, depending on the source.[1][2] 
(While Inwood is the northernmost neighborhood on the island of Manhattan, 
it is not the northernmost neighborhood of the entire borough of Manhattan. 
That distinction is held by Marble Hill, a neighborhood situated just north 
of Inwood, on what is properly the North American mainland bordering the 
Bronx. Marble Hill was isolated from Inwood and the rest of Manhattan in 
1895 when the route of the Harlem River was altered by the construction 
of the Harlem River Ship Canal.) Because of its water boundary on three 
sides, its hilly geography, and its limited local street connections (only 
Broadway and Fort George Hill connect to the rest of the Manhattan street 
grid), the neighborhood can feel somewhat physically detached from the 
rest of the borough. The W.P.A. Guide to New York City, published in the 
1930s, described Inwood with "rivers and hills insulate a suburban community 
that is as separate an entity as any in Manhattan." Inwood marble, a soft, 
white, metamorphic rock found in northern Manhattan, takes its name after 
the neighborhood. From the mid-17th to the late 18th century, commercial 
quarries dotted the area as the material was used for building construction. 
However, due to its susceptibility to erosion, builders eventually used 
alternate construction materials.[3] Inwood marble was quarried for government 
buildings in lower Manhattan and Washington, D.C. Small pieces of marble 
can still be seen in the stone retaining walls around Isham Park. On May 
24, 1626, according to legend,[4] Peter Minuit, the director general of 
the Dutch colony of New Netherland, bought the island from the Lenape Indians 
for 60 Dutch guilders and, the story goes, some trinkets.[5] On the southern 
tip of the island Minuit founded New Amsterdam. A plaque (on a rock) marking 
what is believed to be the spot of the sale is in Inwood Hill Park, the 
only natural forest left in Manhattan. During the British occupation of 
Manhattan in the American Revolutionary War, there was an encampment containing 
more than sixty huts occupied by Hessian troops between 201st and 204th 
streets along Payson Avenue. The camp was discovered in 1914 by local archeologist 
and historian Reginald Bolton after a series of digs around the neighborhood.[6] 
Inwood was a very rural section of Manhattan well into the early 20th century. 
Once the IRT Broadway – Seventh Avenue Line, the modern 1 train, reached 
Inwood in 1906, speculative developers constructed numerous apartment buildings 
on the east side of Broadway. Construction continued into the 1930s, when 
the IND Eighth Avenue Line, the modern A train, reached Dyckman and 207th 
Streets along Broadway and the large estates west of Broadway (Seaman, 
Dyckman, Isham, etc.) were sold off and developed. Many of Inwood's impressive 
Art Deco apartment buildings were constructed during this period. The area 
around Dyckman Street and 10th Avenue formerly contained a stadium called 
the Dyckman Oval, with a capacity of 4,500 spectators, which hosted football 
games, boxing matches, and Negro League baseball games until it was replaced 
by public housing in the 1950s. Commercial retail uses are mainly located 
along Broadway, Dyckman Street and West 207th Street. In recent years Dyckman 
Street west of Broadway has become a popular entertainment district with 
many restaurants and lounges. Offices are typically located on second floors 
over retail, or in the neighborhood's sole office building (a converted 
telephone building) at Broadway and West 215th Street. Inwood also contains 
one of Manhattan's few remaining C-8 zoning districts, which concentrates 
automotive uses on the northern stretches of Broadway. Industrial uses, 
including subway (207th Street Yard), bus (Kingsbridge Bus Depot), and 
sanitation (Manhattan North) depots, exist primarily along Sherman Creek, 
an inlet of the Harlem River. The creek and surrounding industrial area 
is bounded by Dyckman Street to the south, Tenth Avenue to the west, and 
207th Street to the north. There has been an initiative among politicians 
over the last few years to re-zone this area for residential and commercial 
use, and to create public access to the waterfront.[7] Currently, Con Ed 
and the City of New York own some of the property in this area. The major 
residential land use in Inwood is multifamily five- to eight-story prewar 
apartment buildings. New construction is rare. Interestingly, most of the 
remaining detached and semi-detached houses on Manhattan Island are located 
in Inwood, nestled between apartment buildings. Adjacent to Sherman Creek 
is Inwood's public housing development, known as the Dyckman Houses and 
constructed in 1951. Most visitors get their first glimpse of the neighborhood 
when visiting the area's best known cultural attraction, The Cloisters 
in Fort Tryon Park. This branch of the Metropolitan Museum of Art is devoted 
to Medieval art and culture, and is located in a medieval-style building, 
portions of which were purchased in Europe, brought to the United States, 
and reassembled. Whether the museum itself is actually located in Inwood 
depends on one's definition of the neighborhood boundaries but its tower 
dominates the skyline of the area and the museum can be easily accessed 
via steep pathways leading up from Dyckman Street. From Inwood Hill Park, 
one can view a 100-foot (30 m)-tall Columbia "C" painted on the face of 
a rock cut across the Harlem River on the Bronx shore. This collegiate 
logo has been in place for approximately a half-century, though it is not 
clear who exactly maintains the painted letter in the present day. Looking 
west from Inwood Hill Park across the Hudson River, one can view the New 
Jersey Palisades. Looking east from Inwood, the former NYU campus in University 
Heights, Bronx, now Bronx Community College, towers above the east end 
of the University Heights Bridge. Bridges spanning Spuyten Duyvil Creek 
include the Henry Hudson Bridge, the longest fixed arch bridge in the world 
when built in 1936, and the Spuyten Duyvil Bridge, a railroad swing bridge 
reconstructed numerous times since originally opening in 1849. Road bridges 
are the Broadway Bridge and the University Heights Bridge, both important 
local structures. The local hospital in Inwood is the Allen Hospital, a 
satellite facility of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital. The oldest building 
in Inwood is the Dyckman House, the oldest farmhouse in Manhattan, on Broadway 
at 204th Street. A farmers' market takes place on Isham Street on Saturdays, 
year-round. The Seaman-Drake Arch, located on Broadway at 216th Street, 
is one of only two free-standing arches in New York City, the other being 
the Washington Square Arch. The Seaman-Drake Arch was built in 1855 of 
local Inwood marble. It is the last remaining structure of the mansion 
that formerly stood there.[8] Inwood's real estate rents and values are 
sharply bifurcated between east and west. According to Manhattan Community 
Board 12, the districts east of Broadway are predominantly lower-income. 
This area is also more industrial and commercial and has fewer parks and 
street trees. Real estate values and rents are correspondingly lower than 
the area west of Broadway. Almost all of Inwood's co-ops and all of the 
private houses are located on the west side of Broadway.[9] Inwood Hill 
Park, on the Hudson River, is a very large and old-growth forested city 
park. It is known for its caves that were used by the Lenape before Europeans 
arrived, and the last salt marsh in Manhattan. Birdwatchers come to the 
Park to see waterbirds, raptors, and a wide variety of migratory birds. 
The wooded section, consisting mostly of abandoned former summer estates, 
features the last natural forest standing on Manhattan Island. A busy ballfield 
complex, tennis courts, three playgrounds, a waterfront promenade and extensive 
hiking trails are also prominent components of the Park. Columbia University's 
23-acre (93,000 m2) athletic fields have been located in Inwood since the 
1920s. They are known today as the Baker Athletics Complex, though locals 
still use the historical name of "Baker Field". The football stadium within 
the complex, officially Robert K. Kraft Field at Lawrence A. Wien Stadium, 
can accommodate 17,000 fans and was noted by Sports Illustrated as "one 
of the most beautiful places in the country to watch a football game" due 
to the scenic views of the Henry Hudson Bridge and the New Jersey Palisades 
from the home stands.[10] In January 2014, a new one-acre park called Muscota 
Marsh opened to the public between Inwood Hill Park and Baker Field as 
part of an agreement with the city for the development of the Campbell 
Athletic Center at West 218th Street and Broadway. This waterfront park 
was built by Columbia and is jointly administered by the city parks department 
and the university.[11] Other parks in or adjoining Inwood are Isham Park, 
Sherman Creek Park (Swindler Cove), Fort Washington Park, Fort Tryon Park, 
and Highbridge Park. The Lt. William Tighe Triangle, aka the Riverside-Inwood 
Neighborhood Garden (RING), is the northernmost piece of Ft. Tryon Park 
and lies at the confluence of Riverside Drive, Dyckman Street, Broadway, 
and Seaman Avenue.[12] It is Inwood's oldest community garden, having been 
founded in 1984. Bruce's Garden is another notable community garden, located 
in the northeast corner of Isham Park. The residents of Inwood were substantially 
of Irish descent for much of the 20th century. The neighborhood exhibited 
a strong Irish identity with many Irish shops, pubs, and even a Gaelic 
football field in Inwood Hill Park. The second largest group during this 
time was the Jewish population, an extension of the large Jewish population 
of Washington Heights. However, in the 1960s through the 1980s, many Irish 
and Jewish residents moved out of Inwood to the outer boroughs (for example, 
Riverdale and Spuyten Duyvil in the Bronx) and the suburbs, in a pattern 
consistent with overall trends in the city at that time. During the same 
period that the Irish were leaving Inwood, there was a dramatic rise in 
the number of Dominican immigrants to the area. Today, Inwood has a predominantly 
Dominican population, especially in the areas east of Broadway. Hispanic 
residents make up 74 percent of Inwood's population as a whole, according 
to census data.[13] A few Irish remain in the blocks near the Church of 
the Good Shepherd at Isham Street, though even its Mass services are now 
offered in Spanish nearly as often as in English. The YMHA remains, but 
the former synagogues have now been converted to churches and other uses. 
Inwood is patrolled by the New York City Police Department's 34th Precinct. 
At one time, Inwood had one of the city's highest crime rates. From 1993 
to 2010, crime decreased by 83%. Inwood became one of Manhattan's safest 
neighborhoods in 2010, and was the city's 17th safest neighborhood that 
year.[14] Grand larceny auto incidents have seen the greatest decrease 
from 1993 to 2010: a 95% decrease to 97 incidents in 2010. This was followed 
by incidences of burglary, down 90% to 190 in 2010. Shooting incidents 
and murders dropped 90% to nine shootings and four murders in 2010.[14] 
Crime has gone down largely because of the area's increased police presence. 
Still, certain types of crimes have increased; for example, muggings and 
other attacks near Isham Park and area subway stations have gone up.[14] 
Violent crimes are a problem in the neighborhood, as murders, rapes, robberies, 
and felony assaults were all up in both 2009 and 2010. In 2010, rapes rose 
29%, to 22, and misdemeanor sex crimes rose 24%, to 26. In that period, 
though, overall crime went down 3%.[14] In 2014, crime rates dropped. That 
year, there was 1 murder, 13 rapes, 224 robberies, 204 felony assaults, 
177 burglaries, 456 grand larcenies, and 76 grand larceny autos in the 
34th Precinct.[15] Inwood's main local thoroughfare is Broadway, which 
is co-designated US 9 at this point. Highway access to the area is via 
the Henry Hudson Parkway to the west, the Harlem River Drive to the southeast 
(ending at Dyckman Street), and the Alexander Hamilton Bridge over the 
Harlem River from the Trans-Manhattan Expressway to the Cross Bronx Expressway 
(both of which carry I-95 and U.S. 1). Other bridges to the area include 
the Washington Bridge at 181st Street, crossing the Harlem River to the 
Bronx; the University Heights Bridge, from 207th Street in Manhattan across 
the Harlem River to Fordham Road in the Bronx; the Broadway Bridge, across 
the Spuyten Duyvil Creek north to Marble Hill; and the Henry Hudson Bridge 
across Spuyten Duyvil Creek to the Bronx. Inwood's main commercial shopping 
streets are Broadway, Dyckman Street, and West 207th Street. Manhattan's 
first Slow Zone was installed on the side streets west of Broadway in 2012; 
it is similar to other Slow Zones citywide installed as part of Vision 
Zero, which commenced under Mayor Bill de Blasio in 2014.[16] The majority 
of neighborhood residents commute via the subway using either the A train 
at the 207th Street or Dyckman Street stations along Broadway, the latter 
of which was a subway terminus since it opened in 1932 and was renovated 
in 1999 to be ADA accessible.[17][18] The neighborhood also is served by 
the 1 train at the Dyckman Street, 207th Street, or 215th Street stations 
along Tenth Avenue. The Metro-North Railroad's Hudson Line has a station 
just over the Broadway Bridge at Marble Hill as well as across the University 
Heights Bridge in University Heights, providing an additional commuting 
options (discounted on weekends using CityTicket). Inwood is also served 
by the M100, Bx12, Bx12 SBS, Bx20 local buses and the BxM1 express bus. 
All MTA Regional Bus Operations routes except the Bx7 terminate in the 
neighborhood.[19] The median commute time for all residents is approximately 
45 minutes, with 72.5% of Inwood's residents working within New York County.[17] 
Bike infrastructure in Inwood is limited. Painted lanes are located on 
Seaman Avenue and the far eastern portion of Dyckman Street. West 218th 
Street is marked with sharrows. The Manhattan Waterfront Greenway can be 
accessed from Inwood on both the Hudson and Harlem River sides; in addition, 
a 0.75 mile dead-end stub along the Hudson waterfront below Dyckman Street 
was added in 2014. Technically, there is a ban on bicycles in Inwood Hill 
Park except for its western edge and the Henry Hudson Bridge. The Broadway 
Bridge requires cyclists to use the steel-grate roadway, making cycling 
connections to the Bronx difficult. Inwood (and Fort George, depending 
on how one considers neighborhood boundaries) hosts various public schools: 
There are several private religious schools in Inwood: There is one higher-education 
classroom campus in Inwood: Notable current and former residents of Inwood 
