The Iowa Cubs are a Triple-A minor league baseball team, affiliated with 
the Chicago Cubs, that plays in the Pacific Coast League. Their home games 
are played in Des Moines, Iowa, at Principal Park. Triple-A baseball came 
to Iowa's capital city in 1969, as the Iowa Oaks of the American Association 
began play. The Oaks were affiliates of the Oakland Athletics (1969–1973), 
the Chicago White Sox (1973–1974 and 1976–1980), and the Houston Astros 
(1975). In 1981, the team affiliated with the Chicago Cubs and adopted 
the nickname of the parent team, although it is often shortened to "I-Cubs" 
by fans and media to avoid confusion with the major league team. The team 
became part of the Pacific Coast League in 1998 after the dissolution of 
the American Association. The current Player Development Contract (PDC) 
with the Chicago Cubs runs through 2016. The Iowa Cubs are one of only 
four Triple-A (baseball) clubs who bear the name of their parent club. 
Most minor league teams have moved towards a nickname representative of 
their local community in order to provide consistent marketing regardless 
of what major league club their PDC is with. Their home ballpark is Principal 
Park (formerly Sec Taylor Stadium), located at the confluence of the Des 
Moines and Raccoon Rivers. The franchise attendance record of 576,310 was 
set in 2007. As of 2008, the I-Cubs are owned by Raccoon Baseball, Inc., 
an ownership group led by Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist Michael Gartner. 
Sam Bernabe serves as the team's president and general manager. The mascot 
of the Iowa Cubs is "Cubbie Bear," a brown bear, who is often the Iowa 
Cubs' unofficial ambassador to schools and charitable events throughout 
central Iowa.[1] Many future Cubs stars have played in Des Moines before 
they were called up to Wrigley Field. Some notable I-Cubs alumni include 
Greg Maddux, Rafael Palmeiro, Mark Grace, Doug Glanville, Joe Carter, Corey 
Patterson, Carlos Zambrano, Kyle Farnsworth, Kerry Wood, Steve Trachsel, 
Tuffy Rhodes, Bruce Kimm, Shawon Dunston, Héctor Villanueva, Mark Prior, 
Sam Fuld, John Grabow, and Rod Beck. Wood and Prior both made rehabilitation 
starts for the I-Cubs in 2004 and 2005 before returning to the Chicago 
Cubs' active roster, and many Cubs players such as Derrek Lee, Daryle Ward, 
Alfonso Soriano, and Ryan Dempster have also made stops in Des Moines for 
rehab purposes. Even today many Cubs stars such as Kris Bryant, Kyle Schwarber, 
Anthony Rizzo, and Javier Baez made stops in Iowa. The Iowa Oaks hosted 
many future Major League Baseball stars such as sluggers Bill McNulty, 
Harold Baines, Pat Tabler, and 1971 Cy Young and MVP Award winning left-handed 
pitcher Vida Blue.[2] Rod Beck gained national attention while pitching 
for Iowa during his comeback for living in a mobile home behind the team's 
Sec Taylor Stadium (now Principal Park) in Des Moines. Beck warmly welcomed 
fans to drop by and visit, use his restroom, and have some Coors Light 
from his refrigerator.[3] In 1993, Tuffy Rhodes hit an extra-inning home 
run to win the American Association championship for the Iowa Cubs. After 
failing to latch on to a major league team, in 1995, Rhodes went on to 
a successful career playing in Nippon Professional Baseball in Japan, where 
he currently is the career NPB home run leader by a non-Japanese player 
with 430 home runs.[4] In addition to these players, Mike Quade, a former 
manager of the Chicago Cubs, managed the Iowa Cubs from 2003 to 2006. Another 
former Chicago Cubs manager Bruce Kimm is an Iowa native who managed the 
Iowa Cubs from 2001 to 2002. In 2010, the I-Cubs had one of their best 
seasons ever with manager Ryne Sandberg named Pacific Coast League 2010 
Manager of the Year. Former St. Louis Cardinals manager Tony La Russa managed 
the Iowa Oaks in 1979 prior to becoming manager for the Chicago White Sox. 
In May 2014, Manny Ramirez signed a contract as a part-time player/coach 
for the I-Cubs. Former Iowa Cubs broadcasters include: Vince Cotroneo (Oakland 
A's broadcaster) Brett Dolan (Houston Astros broadcaster) Dave Raymond 
(Houston Astros broadcaster) Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager 
Coaches 60-day disabled list 7-day disabled list * On Chicago Cubs 40-man 
roster # Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve list ‡ Restricted list § Suspended 
list † Temporary inactive list Roster updated September 11, 2016 Transactions 
