Iowa (i/ˈaɪ.əwə/) is a U.S. state in the Midwestern United States, bordered 
by the Mississippi River on the east and the Missouri River and the Big 
Sioux River on the west. Surrounding states include Wisconsin and Illinois 
to the east, Missouri to the south, Nebraska and South Dakota to the west, 
and Minnesota to the north. In colonial times, Iowa was a part of French 
Louisiana and Spanish Louisiana; its state flag is patterned after the 
flag of France. After the Louisiana Purchase, people laid the foundation 
for an agriculture-based economy in the heart of the Corn Belt.[5] In the 
latter half of the 20th century, Iowa's agricultural economy made the transition 
to a diversified economy of advanced manufacturing, processing, financial 
services, information technology, biotechnology, and green energy production.[6][7] 
Iowa is the 26th most extensive in land area and the 30th most populous 
of the 50 United States. Its capital and largest city by population is 
Des Moines. Iowa has been listed as one of the safest states in which to 
live.[8] Its nickname is the Hawkeye State.[9] Iowa derives its name from 
the Ioway people, one of the many Native American tribes that occupied 
the state at the time of European exploration.[10] Iowa is bordered by 
the Mississippi River on the east; the Missouri River and the Big Sioux 
River on the west; the northern boundary is a line along 43 degrees, 30 
minutes north latitude.[11][note 1] The southern border is the Des Moines 
River and a not-quite-straight line along approximately 40 degrees 35 minutes 
north, as decided by the U.S. Supreme Court in Missouri v. Iowa (1849) 
after a standoff between Missouri and Iowa known as the Honey War.[12][13] 
Iowa is the only state whose east and west borders are formed entirely 
by rivers.[14] Iowa has 99 counties, but 100 county seats because Lee County 
has two. The state capital, Des Moines, is located in Polk County.[15] 
Iowa's bedrock geology generally increases in age from west to east. In 
northwest Iowa, Cretaceous bedrock can be 74 million years old, in eastern 
Iowa Cambrian bedrock dates to c. 500 million years ago.[16] Iowa is generally 
not flat; most of the state consists of rolling hills. Iowa can be divided 
into eight landforms based on glaciation, soils, topography, and river 
drainage.[17] Loess hills lie along the western border of the state, some 
of which are several hundred feet thick.[18] Northeast Iowa along the Mississippi 
River is part of the Driftless Zone, consisting of steep hills and valleys 
which appear almost mountainous. Several natural lakes exist, most notably 
Spirit Lake, West Okoboji Lake, and East Okoboji Lake in northwest Iowa 
(see Iowa Great Lakes). To the east lies Clear Lake. Man-made lakes include 
Lake Odessa,[19] Saylorville Lake, Lake Red Rock, Coralville Lake, Lake 
MacBride, and Rathbun Lake. The northwest part of the state contains a 
considerable number of remnants of the once common wetlands, such as Barringer 
Slough. Iowa's natural vegetation is tallgrass prairie and savanna in upland 
areas, with dense forest and wetlands in flood plains and protected river 
valleys, and pothole wetlands in northern prairie areas.[17] Most of Iowa 
is used for agriculture; crops cover 60% of the state, grasslands (mostly 
pasture and hay with some prairie and wetland) cover 30%, and forests cover 
7%; urban areas and water cover another 1% each.[20] There is a dearth 
of natural areas in Iowa; less than 1% of the tallgrass prairie that once 
covered most of Iowa remains intact; only about 5% of the state's prairie 
pothole wetlands remain, and most of the original forest has been lost.[21] 
As of 2005[update] Iowa ranked 49th of U.S. states in public land holdings.[22] 
Threatened or endangered animals in Iowa include the interior least tern, 
piping plover, Indiana bat, pallid sturgeon, the Iowa Pleistocene land 
snail, Higgins' eye pearly mussel, and the Topeka shiner.[23] Endangered 
or threatened plants include western prairie fringed orchid, eastern prairie 
fringed orchid, Mead's milkweed, prairie bush clover, and northern wild 
monkshood.[24] The explosion in the number of high-density livestock facilities 
in Iowa has led to increased rural water contamination and a decline in 
air quality.[25] Other factors negatively affecting Iowa's environment 
include the extensive use of older coal-fired power plants,[26] fertilizer 
and pesticide runoff from crop production,[27] and diminishment of the 
Jordan Aquifer.[28] Iowa has a humid continental climate throughout the 
state. (Köppen climate classification Dfa) with extremes of both heat and 
cold. The average annual temperature at Des Moines is 50 °F (10 °C); for 
some locations in the north the figure is under 45 °F (7 °C), while Keokuk, 
on the Mississippi River, averages 52 °F (11 °C). Winters are often harsh 
and snowfall is common. Spring ushers in the beginning of the severe weather 
season. Iowa averages about 50 days of thunderstorm activity per year.[29] 
The 30 year annual average Tornadoes in Iowa is 47.[30] In 2008, twelve 
people were killed by tornadoes in Iowa, making it the deadliest year since 
1968 and also the second most tornadoes in a year with 105, matching the 
total from 2001.[31] Iowa summers are known for heat and humidity, with 
daytime temperatures often near 90 °F (32 °C) and sometimes exceeding 100 °F 
(38 °C). Average winters in the state have been known to drop well below 
freezing, even dropping below −18 °F (−28 °C). Iowa's all-time hottest 
temperature of 118 °F (48 °C) was recorded at Keokuk on July 20, 1934; 
the all-time lowest temperature of −47 °F (−44 °C) was recorded at Elkader 
on February 3, 1996. Iowa has a relatively smooth gradient of varying precipitation 
across the state, with areas in the southeast of the state receiving an 
average of over 38 inches (97 cm) of rain annually, and the northwest of 
the state receiving less than 28 inches (71 cm).[38] The pattern of precipitation 
across Iowa is seasonal, with more rain falling in the summer months. In 
Des Moines, roughly in the center of the state, over two-thirds of the 
34.72 inches (88.2 cm) of rain falls from April through September, and 
about half of the average annual precipitation falls from May through August.[39] 
When American Indians first arrived in what is now Iowa more than 13,000 
years ago, they were hunters and gatherers living in a Pleistocene glacial 
landscape. By the time European explorers visited Iowa, American Indians 
were largely settled farmers with complex economic, social, and political 
systems. This transformation happened gradually. During the Archaic period 
(10,500–2,800 years ago), American Indians adapted to local environments 
and ecosystems, slowly becoming more sedentary as populations increased.[40] 
More than 3,000 years ago, during the Late Archaic period, American Indians 
in Iowa began utilizing domesticated plants. The subsequent Woodland period 
saw an increased reliance on agriculture and social complexity, with increased 
use of mounds, ceramics, and specialized subsistence. During the Late Prehistoric 
period (beginning about AD 900) increased use of maize and social changes 
led to social flourishing and nucleated settlements.[40] The arrival of 
European trade goods and diseases in the Protohistoric period led to dramatic 
population shifts and economic and social upheaval, with the arrival of 
new tribes and early European explorers and traders. There were numerous 
Indian tribes living in Iowa at the time of early European exploration. 
Tribes which were probably descendants of the prehistoric Oneota include 
the Dakota, Ho-Chunk, Ioway, and Otoe. Tribes which arrived in Iowa in 
the late prehistoric or protohistoric periods include the Illiniwek, Meskwaki, 
Omaha, and Sauk.[40] The first known European explorers to document Iowa 
were Jacques Marquette and Louis Jolliet who traveled the Mississippi River 
in 1673 documenting several Indian villages on the Iowa side.[41][42] The 
area of Iowa was claimed for France and remained a French territory until 
1763. The French, before their impending defeat in the French and Indian 
War, transferred ownership to their ally, Spain.[43] Spain practiced very 
loose control over the Iowa region, granting trading licenses to French 
and British traders, who established trading posts along the Mississippi 
and Des Moines Rivers.[41] Iowa was part of a territory known as La Louisiane 
or Louisiana, and European traders were interested in lead and furs obtained 
by Indians. The Sauk and Meskwaki effectively controlled trade on the Mississippi 
in the late 18th century and early 19th century. Among the early traders 
on the Mississippi were Julien Dubuque, Robert La Salle, and Paul Marin.[41] 
Along the Missouri River at least five French and English trading houses 
were built before 1808.[44] In 1800, Napoleon Bonaparte took control of 
Louisiana from Spain in a treaty. After the 1803 Louisiana Purchase, Iowa 
was placed under United States control. Much of Iowa was mapped by Zebulon 
Pike in 1805,[45] but it was not until the construction of Fort Madison 
in 1808 that the U.S. established tenuous military control over the region.[46] 
Fort Madison was built to control trade and establish U.S. dominance over 
the Upper Mississippi, but it was poorly designed and disliked by the Sauk 
and Ho-Chunk, many of whom allied with the British, who had not abandoned 
claims to the territory.[46][47] Fort Madison was defeated by British-supported 
Indians in 1813 during the War of 1812, and Fort Shelby in Prairie du Chien, 
Wisconsin, also fell to the British. Black Hawk took part in the siege 
of Fort Madison.[48][49] After the war, the U.S. reestablished control 
of the region through the construction of Fort Armstrong, Fort Snelling 
in Minnesota, and Fort Atkinson in Nebraska.[50] The U.S. encouraged settlement 
of the east side of the Mississippi and removal of Indians to the west. 
Trade continued in furs and lead, but disease and forced population movement 
decimated Indian cultures and economies. A disputed 1804 treaty between 
Quashquame and William Henry Harrison that surrendered much of Illinois 
to the U.S. enraged many Sauk and led to the 1832 Black Hawk War. As punishment 
for the uprising, and as part of a larger settlement strategy, treaties 
were subsequently designed to remove all Indians from Iowa. The Sauk and 
Meskwaki were pushed out of the Mississippi valley in 1832, out of the 
Iowa River valley in 1843, and out of Iowa altogether in 1846. Many Meskwaki 
later returned to Iowa and settled near Tama, Iowa; the Meskwaki Settlement 
remains to this day. In 1856 the Iowa Legislature passed an unprecedented 
act allowing the Meskawki to purchase the land; Indians were not usually 
permitted to do so. The Ho-Chunk were removed from Iowa in 1850, and the 
Dakota were removed by the late 1850s. Western Iowa around modern Council 
Bluffs was used as a way station for other tribes being moved west, including 
the Potawatomi. The first American settlers officially moved to Iowa in 
June 1833.[51] Primarily, they were families from Ohio, Pennsylvania, New 
York, Indiana, Kentucky, and Virginia.[51] On July 4, 1838, the U.S. Congress 
established the Territory of Iowa. President Martin Van Buren appointed 
Robert Lucas governor of the territory, which at the time had 22 counties 
and a population of 23,242.[52] Almost immediately after achieving territorial 
status, a clamor arose for statehood. On December 28, 1846, Iowa became 
the 29th state in the Union when President James K. Polk signed Iowa's 
admission bill into law. Once admitted to the Union, the state's boundary 
issues resolved, and most of its land purchased from the Indians, Iowa 
set its direction to development and organized campaigns for settlers and 
investors, boasting the young frontier state's rich farmlands, fine citizens, 
free and open society, and good government.[53] Iowa has a long tradition 
of state and county fairs. The first and second Iowa State Fairs were held 
in the more developed eastern part of the state at Fairfield. The first 
fair was held October 25–27, 1854, at a cost of around $323. Thereafter, 
the fair moved to locations closer to the center of the state and in 1886 
found a permanent home in Des Moines. The State Fair has been held every 
year since except for the year 1898 due to the Spanish–American War and 
the World's Fair being held in nearby Omaha, Nebraska. The fair was also 
a World War II wartime casualty from 1942–1945.[54] Iowa supported the 
Union during the Civil War, voting heavily for Abraham Lincoln, though 
there was a strong antiwar "Copperhead" movement among settlers of southern 
origins and among Catholics.[citation needed] There were no battles in 
the state, although the battle of Athens, Missouri, 1861, was fought just 
across the Des Moines River from Croton, Iowa, and shots from the battle 
landed in Iowa. Iowa sent large supplies of food to the armies and the 
eastern cities.[55] Much of Iowa's support for the Union can be attributed 
to Samuel J. Kirkwood, its first wartime governor. Of a total population 
of 675,000, about 116,000 men were subjected to military duty. Iowa contributed 
proportionately more men to Civil War military service than did any other 
state, north or south, sending more than 75,000 volunteers to the armed 
forces, over one-sixth of whom were killed before the Confederates surrendered 
at Appomattox.[55] Most fought in the great campaigns in the Mississippi 
Valley and in the South.[56] Iowa troops fought at Wilson's Creek in Missouri, 
Pea Ridge in Arkansas, Forts Henry and Donelson, Shiloh, Chattanooga, Chickamauga, 
Missionary Ridge, and Rossville Gap as well as Vicksburg, Iuka, and Corinth. 
They served with the Army of the Potomoc in Virginia and fought under Union 
General Philip Sheridan in the Shenandoah Valley. Many died and were buried 
at Andersonville. They marched on General Nathaniel Banks' ill-starred 
expedition to the Red River. Twenty-seven Iowans have been awarded the 
Medal of Honor, the highest military decoration awarded by the United States 
government, which was first awarded in the Civil War.[57] Iowa had several 
brigadier generals and four major generals—Grenville Mellen Dodge, Samuel 
R. Curtis, Francis J. Herron, and Frederick Steele—and saw many of its 
generals go on to state and national prominence following the war.[55] 
Following the Civil War, Iowa's population continued to grow dramatically, 
from 674,913 people in 1860 to 1,194,020 in 1870. The introduction of railroads 
in the 1850s and 1860s transformed Iowa into a major agricultural producer. 
In 1917, the United States entered World War I and farmers as well as all 
Iowans experienced a wartime economy. For farmers, the change was significant. 
Since the beginning of the war in 1914, Iowa farmers had experienced economic 
prosperity. In the economic sector, Iowa also has undergone considerable 
change. Beginning with the first farm-related industries developed in the 
1870s, Iowa has experienced a gradual increase in the number of business 
and manufacturing operations. The transition from an agricultural economy 
to a mixed economy happened slowly. The Great Depression and World War 
II accelerated the shift away from smallholder farming to larger farms, 
and began a trend of urbanization that continues. The period since World 
War II has witnessed a particular increase in manufacturing operations. 
While agriculture continued to be the state's dominant industry, Iowans 
also produce a wide variety of products including refrigerators, washing 
machines, fountain pens, farm implements, and food products. The Farm Crisis 
of the 1980s caused a major recession in Iowa, causing poverty not seen 
since the Depression.[58] The crisis spurred a major population decline 
in Iowa that lasted a decade.[59] After bottoming out in the 1980s, Iowa's 
economy began to become increasingly less dependent on agriculture, and 
by the early 21st century was characterized by a mix of manufacturing, 
biotechnology, finance and insurance services, and government services.[60] 
The population of Iowa has increased at a faster rate than the U.S. as 
a whole,[59] and Iowa now has a predominantly urban population.[61] The 
Iowa Economic Development Authority, created in 2011 has replaced the Iowa 
Department of Economic Development and its annual reports are a source 
of economic information.[62] The United States Census Bureau estimates 
that the population of Iowa was 3,123,899 on July 1, 2015, a 2.55% increase 
since the 2010 United States Census.[2] Of the residents of Iowa, 72.2% 
were born in Iowa, 23.2% were born in a different US state, 0.5% were born 
in Puerto Rico, U.S. Island areas, or born abroad to American parent(s), 
and 4.1% were foreign born.[66] As of 2015, Iowa had an estimated population 
of 3,123,899, which is an increase of 16,773 people or 0.56%, from the 
prior year and an increase of 77,544 or 2.55%, since the year 2010. This 
is the first time the state has topped the three million mark in population. 
Iowa is the 30th most populated state in the country.[67] In 2007, the 
latest demographic information available shows that the state had a natural 
increase of 53,706 people in population from the last census (that is 197,163 
births minus 143,457 deaths) and a decrease of 11,754 due to net migration 
of people out of the state. Immigration from outside the United States 
resulted in a net increase of 29,386 people, while migration within the 
country produced a net loss of 41,140 people. 6.5% of Iowa's population 
were reported as under the age of five, 22.6% under 18, and 14.7% were 
65 or older. Males made up approximately 49.6% of the population.[68] The 
population density of the state is 52.7 people per square mile.[69] The 
center of population of Iowa is located in Marshall County, in the city 
of Marshalltown.[68] According to the 2010 Census, 91.3% of the population 
was White (88.7% non-Hispanic white), 2.9% was Black or African American, 
0.4% American Indian and Alaska Native, 1.7% Asian, 0.1% Native Hawaiian 
and other Pacific Islander, 1.8% from two or more races. 5.0% of the total 
population was of Hispanic or Latino origin (they may be of any race).[70] 
Iowa's population included about 97,000 foreign-born (3.3%).[68] Iowans 
are mostly of Western European descent. The five largest ancestry groups 
in Iowa are: German (35.7%), Irish (13.5%), English (9.5%), American (6.6%), 
and Norwegian (5.7%). Iowa's population is more urban than rural, with 
61 percent living in urban areas in 2000, a trend that began in the early 
20th century.[61] Urban counties in Iowa grew 8.5% from 2000 to 2008, while 
rural counties declined by 4.2%.[76] The shift from rural to urban has 
caused population increases in more urbanized counties such as Dallas, 
Johnson, Linn, Polk, and Scott, at the expense of more rural counties.[77] 
Iowa, in common with other Midwestern states (especially Kansas, Nebraska, 
North Dakota, and South Dakota), is feeling the brunt of rural flight, 
although Iowa has been gaining population since approximately 1990. Some 
smaller communities, such as Denison and Storm Lake, have mitigated this 
population loss through gains in immigrant laborers.[78] Another demographic 
problem for Iowa is the brain drain, in which educated young adults leave 
the state in search of better prospects in higher education or employment. 
During the 1990s, Iowa had the second highest exodus rate for single, educated 
young adults, second only to North Dakota.[79] Significant loss of educated 
young people contributes to economic stagnation and the loss of services 
for remaining citizens. A 2001 survey from the City University of New York 
found that 52% of Iowans are Protestant, while 23% are Catholic, and other 
religions made up 6%. 13% responded with non-religious, and 5% did not 
answer.[80] A survey from the Association of Religion Data Archives (ARDA) 
in 2010 found that the largest Protestant denominations were the United 
Methodist Church with 235,190 adherents and the Evangelical Lutheran Church 
in America with 229,557. The largest non Protestant religion was Catholicism 
with 503,080 adherents. The state has great number of Reformed denomination. 
Presbyterian Church (USA) had almost 290 congregations and 51,380 members 
followed by the Reformed Church in America with 80 churches and 40,000 
members, the United Church of Christ had 180 churches and 39,000 members.[81] 
The study Religious Congregations & Membership: 2000[82] found that in 
the southernmost two tiers of Iowa counties and in other counties in the 
center of the state, the largest religious group was the United Methodist 
Church; in the northeast part of the state, including Dubuque and Linn 
counties (where Cedar Rapids is located), the Catholic Church was the largest; 
and in ten counties, including three in the northern tier, the Evangelical 
Lutheran Church in America was the largest. The study also found rapid 
growth in Evangelical Christian denominations. Dubuque is home to a Catholic 
archdiocese, which spans the northeastern section of Iowa. Historically, 
religious sects and orders who desired to live apart from the rest of society 
established themselves in Iowa, such as the Amish and Mennonite near Kalona 
and in other parts of eastern Iowa such as Davis County and Buchanan County.[83] 
Other religious sects and orders living apart include Quakers around West 
Branch and Le Grand, German Pietists who founded the Amana Colonies, followers 
of Transcendental Meditation who founded Maharishi Vedic City, and Order 
of Cistercians of the Strict Observance monks and nuns at the New Melleray 
and Our Lady of the Mississippi Abbies near Dubuque. English is the most 
common language used in Iowa, used by 94% of the population.[84] William 
Labov and colleagues, in the monumental Atlas of North American English[85] 
found that the English spoken in Iowa divides into multiple linguistic 
regions. Natives of northern Iowa – including Sioux City, Fort Dodge, and 
the Waterloo region – tend to speak the dialect that linguists call North 
Central American English, which is also found in North and South Dakota, 
Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Michigan. Natives of central and southern Iowa 
– including such cities as Council Bluffs, Davenport, Des Moines, and Iowa 
City – tend to speak the North Midland dialect also found in eastern Nebraska, 
central Illinois, and central Indiana.[86] Natives of East-Central Iowa 
- including cities such as Cedar Rapids, Dubuque, and Clinton tend to speak 
with the Northern Cities Vowel Shift, a dialect that extends from this 
area and east across the Great Lakes Region.[87] After English, Spanish 
is the second-most-common language spoken in Iowa, with 120,000 people 
in Iowa of Hispanic or Latino origin[88] and 47,000 people born in Latin 
America.[89] The third-most-common language is German, spoken by 17,000 
people in Iowa;[84] two notable German dialects used in Iowa include Amana 
German spoken around the Amana Colonies, and Pennsylvania German, spoken 
among the Amish in Iowa. The Babel Proclamation of 1918 banned the speaking 
of German in public. Around Pella, residents of Dutch descent once spoke 
the Pella Dutch dialect. No other language is spoken by more than 0.5 percent 
of the Iowa population.[84] The only indigenous language used regularly 
in Iowa is Meskwaki, used around the Meskwaki Settlement.[90] Des Moines 
is the largest city in Iowa and the state's political and economic center. 
It is home to the Iowa State Capitol, the State Historical Society of Iowa 
Museum, Drake University, Des Moines Art Center, Greater Des Moines Botanical 
Garden, Principal Riverwalk, the Iowa State Fair, Terrace Hill, and the 
World Food Prize. Nearby attractions include Adventureland and Prairie 
Meadows Racetrack Casino in Altoona, Living History Farms in Urbandale, 
Trainland USA in Colfax, and the Iowa Speedway and Valle Drive-In in Newton. 
Ames is the home of Iowa State University, the Iowa State Center, and Reiman 
Gardens. Boone hosts the biennial Farm Progress Show and is home to the 
Mamie Doud Eisenhower museum, the Boone & Scenic Valley Railroad, and Ledges 
State Park. The Meskwaki Settlement west of Tama is the only American Indian 
settlement in Iowa and is host to a large annual Pow-wow. The Clint Eastwood 
movie The Bridges of Madison County, based on the popular novel of the 
same name, took place and was filmed in Madison County. Also in Madison 
County is the John Wayne Birthplace Museum in Winterset. Other communities 
with vibrant historic downtown areas include Newton, Indianola, Pella, 
Knoxville, Marshalltown, Perry, and Story City. Iowa City is home to the 
University of Iowa, which includes the Iowa Writers' Workshop, and the 
Old Capitol building. Because of the extraordinary history in the teaching 
and sponsoring of creative writing that emanated from the Iowa Writers' 
Workshop and related programs, Iowa City was the first American city designated 
by the United Nations as a "City of Literature" in the UNESCO Creative 
Cities Network. The Herbert Hoover National Historic Site and Herbert Hoover 
Presidential Library and Museum are located in West Branch. The Amana Colonies 
are a group of settlements of German Pietists comprising seven villages 
listed as National Historic Landmarks. The Cedar Rapids Museum of Art has 
collections of paintings by Grant Wood and Marvin Cone. Cedar Rapids is 
also home to the National Czech & Slovak Museum & Library and Iowa's only 
National Trust for Historic Preservation Site, Brucemore mansion. Davenport 
boasts the Figge Art Museum, River Music Experience, Putnam Museum, Davenport 
Skybridge, Quad City Symphony Orchestra, Ballet Quad Cities, and plays 
host to the annual Bix Beiderbecke Memorial Jazz Festival, and the Quad 
City Air Show, which is the largest airshow in the state. Other communities 
with vibrant historic downtown areas include West Liberty, Fairfield, Burlington, 
Mount Pleasant, Fort Madison, LeClaire, Mount Vernon, Ottumwa, Washington, 
and Wilton. Some of the most dramatic scenery in Iowa is found in the unique 
Loess Hills. The Iowa Great Lakes include several resort areas such as 
Spirit Lake, Arnolds Park, and the Okoboji Lakes. The Sanford Museum and 
Planetarium in Cherokee, Grotto of the Redemption in West Bend, Arnolds 
Park Amusement Park (one of the oldest amusement parks in the country) 
in Arnolds Park, The Danish Immigrant Museum in Elk Horn, and the Fort 
Museum and Frontier Village in Fort Dodge are regional destinations. Sioux 
City boasts a revitalized downtown, attractions include the Sergeant Floyd 
Monument, Sergeant Floyd River Museum, and the Orpheum Theater. Council 
Bluffs, the major city of southwest Iowa, sits at the base of the Loess 
Hills National Scenic Byway. With three casino resorts, the city also includes 
such cultural attractions as the Western Hills Trails Center, Union Pacific 
Railroad Museum, the Grenville M. Dodge House, and the Lewis and Clark 
Monument. Northwest Iowa is home to some of the largest concentrations 
of wind turbine farms in the world. Other western communities with vibrant 
historic downtown areas include Storm Lake, Spencer, Le Mars, Glenwood, 
Carroll, Atlantic, Red Oak, Denison, Creston, Mount Ayr, Sac City, and 
Walnut. The Driftless Area of northeast Iowa has many steep hills and deep 
valleys, checkered with forest and terraced fields. Effigy Mounds National 
Monument in Allamakee and Clayton Counties has the largest assemblage of 
animal-shaped prehistoric mounds in the world. Waterloo is home of the 
Grout Museum and is headquarters of the Silos & Smokestacks National Heritage 
Area. Cedar Falls is home of the University of Northern Iowa. Dubuque is 
a regional tourist destination with attractions such as the National Mississippi 
River Museum and Aquarium and the Port of Dubuque. Dyersville is home to 
the famed Field of Dreams baseball diamond. Maquoketa Caves State Park, 
near Maquoketa, contains more caves than any other state park. Fort Atkinson 
State Preserve in Fort Atkinson has the remains of an original 1840s Dragoon 
fortification. Other communities with vibrant historic downtown areas include 
Decorah, McGregor, Mason City, Elkader, Guttenberg, Algona, Spillville, 
Charles City, and Independence. RAGBRAI – the Register's Annual Great Bike 
Ride Across Iowa – attracts thousands of bicyclists and support personnel. 
It has crossed the state on various routes each year since 1973. Iowa is 
home to more than 70 wineries,[91] and hosts five regional wine tasting 
trails.[92] Many Iowa communities hold farmers' markets during warmer months; 
these are typically weekly events, but larger cities can host multiple 
markets.[93] CNBC's list of "Top States for Business in 2010" has recognized 
Iowa as the sixth best state in the nation. Scored in 10 individual categories, 
Iowa was ranked 1st when it came to the "Cost of Doing Business"; this 
includes all taxes, utility costs, and other costs associated with doing 
business. Iowa was also ranked 10th in "Economy", 12th in "Business Friendliness", 
16th in "Education", 17th in both "Cost of Living" and "Quality of Life", 
20th in "Workforce", 29th in "Technology and Innovation", 32nd in "Transportation" 
and the lowest ranking was 36th in "Access to Capital".[94] While Iowa 
is often viewed as a farming state, in reality agriculture is a small portion 
of a diversified economy, with manufacturing, biotechnology, finance and 
insurance services, and government services contributing substantially 
to Iowa's economy.[60] This economic diversity has helped Iowa weather 
the late 2000s recession better than most states, with unemployment substantially 
lower than the rest of the nation.[96][97] If the economy is measured by 
gross domestic product, in 2005 Iowa's GDP was about US $124 billion.[98] 
If measured by gross state product, for 2005 it was US $113.5 billion.[99] 
Its per capita income for 2006 was US $23,340.[99] On July 2, 2009, Standard 
and Poor's rated the state of Iowa's credit as AAA (the highest of its 
credit ratings, held by only 11 U.S. state governments).[100] As of December 
2015, the state's unemployment rate is 3.4%.[101] Manufacturing is the 
largest sector of Iowa's economy, with $20.8 billion (21%) of Iowa's 2003 
gross state product. Major manufacturing sectors include food processing, 
heavy machinery, and agricultural chemicals. Sixteen percent of Iowa's 
workforce is dedicated to manufacturing.[60] Food processing is the largest 
component of manufacturing. Besides processed food, industrial outputs 
include machinery, electric equipment, chemical products, publishing, and 
primary metals. Companies with direct or indirect processing facilities 
in Iowa include ConAgra Foods, Wells Blue Bunny, Barilla, Heinz, Tone's 
Spices, General Mills, and Quaker Oats. Meatpacker Tyson Foods has 11 locations, 
second only to its headquarter state Arkansas.[102] Major non-food manufacturing 
firms with production facilities in Iowa include 3M, ALCOA, Amana Corporation, 
Dexter Apache Holdings, Inc., Electrolux/Frigidaire, Emerson Process Management, 
Fisher Controls International, Hagie Manufacturing Company, HON Industries, 
The HON Company, SSAB, John Deere, Lennox Manufacturing, Maytag Corporation, 
Pella Corporation, Procter & Gamble, Rockwell Collins, Terex, Vermeer Company, 
and Winnebago Industries.[citation needed] Directly and indirectly, agriculture 
has been a major component of Iowa's economy. As of 2007 the direct production 
and sale of raw agricultural products contributed only about 3.5% of Iowa's 
gross state product.[103] In 2002 the total impact of the indirect role 
of agriculture in Iowa's economy, including agriculture-affiliated business, 
was calculated at 16.4% in terms of value added and 24.3% in terms of total 
output. This was lower than the economic impact of non-farm manufacturing, 
which accounted for 22.4% of total value added and 26.5% of total output.[104] 
Iowa's main agricultural products are hogs, corn, soybeans, oats, cattle, 
eggs, and dairy products. Iowa is the nation's largest producer of ethanol 
and corn and some years is the largest grower of soybeans as well. In 2008, 
the 92,600 farms in Iowa produced 19% of the nation's corn, 17% of the 
soybeans, 30% of the hogs, and 14% of the eggs.[105] As of 2009[update] 
major Iowa agricultural product processors include Archer Daniels Midland, 
Ajinomoto, Cargill, Inc., Diamond V Mills, Garst Seed Company, Heartland 
Pork Enterprises, Hy-Vee, Monsanto Company, Pioneer Hi-Bred International, 
and Quaker Oats.[107][citation needed] As of 2014, there were 16 organizations 
offering health insurance products in Iowa, per the State of Iowa Insurance 
Division.[108] Iowa was the 4th out of 10 states with the biggest drop 
in competition levels of health insurance between 2010 and 2011, per the 
2013 annual report on the level of competition in the health insurance 
industry by the American Medical Association[109] using 2011 data from 
HealthLeaders-Interstudy, the most comprehensive source of data on enrollment 
in health maintenance organization (HMO), preferred provider organization 
(PPO), point-of-service (POS) and consumer-driven health care plans.[110] 
According to the AMA annual report from 2007 Wellmark Blue Cross Blue Shield 
had provided 71% of the state's health insurance.[111] The Iowa Insurance 
Division "Annual report to the Iowa Governor and the Iowa Legislature" 
from November 2014 looked at the 95% of health insurers by premium, which 
are 10 companies. It found Wellmark Inc to dominate the 3 health insurance 
markets it examined (individual, small group and large group) at 52-67%.[112]:2 
Wellmark HealthPlan of Iowa and Wellmark Inc had the highest risk-based 
capital percentages of all 10 providers at 1158% and 1132%, respectively.[112]:31 
Rising RBC is an indication of profits.[112]:31 Iowa has a strong financial 
and insurance sector, with approximately 6,100 firms,[60] including AEGON, 
Nationwide Group, Aviva USA, Farm Bureau Financial Services, Voya Financial, 
Marsh Affinity Group, MetLife, Principal Financial Group, Principal Capital 
Management, Wells Fargo, and Wells Fargo Financial Services. Iowa is host 
to at least two business incubators, Iowa State University Research Park 
and the BioVentures Center at the University of Iowa.[113] The Research 
Park hosts about 50 companies, among them NewLink Genetics, which develops 
cancer immunotherapeutics, and the U.S. animal health division of Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Vetmedica.[113] Emmyon is a startup hosted in the BioVentures 
Center, which is developing medicines to treat muscle disorders.[113] Ethanol 
production consumes approximately one-third of Iowa's corn production, 
and renewable fuels account for 8% of the state's gross domestic product. 
A total of 39 ethanol plants produced 3.1 billion US gallons (12,000,000 m3) 
of fuel in 2009.[114] Renewable energy has become a major economic force 
in northern and western Iowa, with wind turbine electrical generation increasing 
exponentally since 1990.[7] In 2010, wind power in Iowa accounted for 15.4% 
of electrical energy produced, and 3675 megawatts of generating capacity 
had been installed at the end of the year.[115] Iowa ranked first of U.S. 
states in percentage of total power generated by wind and second in wind 
generating capacity behind Texas.[115] Major producers of turbines and 
components in Iowa include Acciona Energy of West Branch, TPI Composites 
of Newton, and Siemens Energy of Fort Madison. In 2016, Iowa was the headquarters 
for three of the top 2,000 companies for revenue.[116] They include Principal 
Financial, Rockwell Collins, and American Equity Investment.[117][118][119] 
Iowa is also headquarters to other companies including Hy-Vee, Pella Corporation, 
Vermeer Company, Kum & Go gas stations, Von Maur, Pioneer Hi-Bred, McLeodUSA, 
and Fareway.[120][121][122][123][124][125][126][127] Iowa imposes taxes 
on net state income of individuals, estates, and trusts. There are currently 
nine income tax brackets, ranging from 0.36% to 8.98%. The state sales 
tax rate is 6%, with non-prepared food having no tax.[128] Iowa has one 
local option sales tax that may be imposed by counties after an election.[129] 
Property tax is levied on the taxable value of real property. Iowa has 
more than 2,000 taxing authorities. Most property is taxed by more than 
one taxing authority. The tax rate differs in each locality and is a composite 
of county, city or rural township, school district and special levies. 
Iowa allows its residents to deduct their federal income taxes from their 
state income taxes.[130] Iowa has four primary interstate highways. Interstate 29 
(I-29) travels along the western edge of the state through Council Bluffs 
and Sioux City. I-35 travels from the Missouri state line to the Minnesota 
state line through the center of the state, including Des Moines. I-74 
begins at I-80 just northeast of Davenport. I-80 travels from the Nebraska 
state line to the Illinois state line through the center of the state, 
including Council Bluffs, Des Moines, Iowa City, and the Quad Cities. I-380 
is an auxiliary Interstate Highway, which travels from I-80 near Iowa City 
through Cedar Rapids ending in Waterloo and is part of the Avenue of the 
Saints highway. Iowa is served by several regional airports including the 
Des Moines International Airport, the Eastern Iowa Airport, in Cedar Rapids, 
Quad City International Airport, which is located in Moline, Illinois, 
and Eppley Airfield, located in Omaha, Nebraska. Smaller airports in the 
state include the Davenport Municipal Airport (Iowa), Dubuque Regional 
Airport, Fort Dodge Regional Airport, Mason City Municipal Airport, Sioux 
Gateway Airport, Southeast Iowa Regional Airport, and Waterloo Regional 
Airport.[citation needed] Amtrak's California Zephyr serves the south of 
Iowa with stops at Burlington, Mount Pleasant, Ottumwa, Osceola, and Creston 
on its daily route between Chicago and Emeryville, California (across the 
bay from San Francisco). Fort Madison is served by Amtrak's Southwest Chief, 
running daily between Chicago and Los Angeles.[citation needed] As of 2016[update] 
the Governor is Terry E. Branstad (R) Other statewide elected officials 
are: The Code of Iowa contains Iowa's statutory laws. It is periodically 
updated by the Iowa Legislative Service Bureau, with a new edition published 
in odd-numbered years and a supplement published in even-numbered years. 
Iowa is an alcohol monopoly or Alcoholic beverage control state. The two 
U.S. Senators: The four U.S. Congressmen: After the 2010 census and the 
resulting redistricting, Iowa lost one seat, falling to 4 seats in the 
House of Representatives. Incumbent congressmen Leonard Boswell (D) and 
Tom Latham (R) ran against each other in the new Third District; Latham 
won. Steve King represented the old Fifth District. In Iowa, the term "political 
party" refers to political organizations which have received two percent 
or more of the votes cast for president or governor in the "last preceding 
general election".[131] Iowa recognizes two political parties – the Republican 
Party and the Democratic Party. Third parties, officially termed "nonparty 
political organizations", can appear on the ballot as well. Five of these 
have had candidates on the ballot in Iowa since 2004 for various positions: 
the Constitution Party, the Green Party, the Libertarian Party, the Pirate 
Party, and the Socialist Workers Party.[132][133] As a result of the 2010 
elections, each party controls one house of the Iowa General Assembly: 
the House has a Republican majority, while the Senate has a Democratic 
majority. Since the defeat of incumbent Democrat Chet Culver in 2010, Iowa's 
governor has been Republican Terry Branstad, who served as governor from 
1983 to 1999. On December 14, 2015, Branstad became the longest serving 
governor in US history, serving (at that time) 20 years, 11 months, and 
3 days; eclipsing George Clinton (vice president), who served 21 years 
until 1804.[134] As of February 1, 2016, there were 2,095,639 registered 
voters.[135] The state gets considerable attention every four years because 
the Iowa caucus, gatherings of voters to select delegates to the state 
conventions, is the first presidential caucus in the country. The caucuses, 
held in January or February of the election year, involve people gathering 
in homes or public places and choosing their candidates, rather than casting 
secret ballots as is done in a presidential primary election.[citation 
needed] Along with the New Hampshire primary the following week, Iowa's 
caucuses have become the starting points for choosing the two major-party 
candidates for president.[136] The national and international media give 
Iowa and New Hampshire extensive attention, which gives Iowa voters leverage.[137] 
Those who enter the caucus race often expend enormous effort to reach voters 
in each of Iowa's 99 counties.[citation needed] In the 19th century Iowa 
was among the earliest states to enact prohibitions against race discrimination, 
especially in education, but was slow to achieve full integration in the 
20th century. In the very first decision of the Iowa Supreme Court – In 
Re the Matter of Ralph,[138] decided July 1839 – the Court rejected slavery 
in a decision that found that a slave named Ralph became free when he stepped 
on Iowa soil, 26 years before the end of the Civil War.[139] The state 
did away with racial barriers to marriage in 1851, more than 100 years 
before the U.S. Supreme Court would ban miscegenation statutes nationwide.[140] 
The Iowa Supreme Court decided Clark v. The Board of Directors[141] in 
1868, ruling that racially segregated "separate but equal" schools had 
no place in Iowa, 85 years before Brown v. Board of Education.[139] By 
1875 a number of additional court rulings effectively ended segregation 
in Iowa schools.[142] Social and housing discrimination continued against 
Blacks at state universities until the 1950s.[143] The Court heard Coger 
v. The North Western Union Packet Co.[144] in 1873, ruling against racial 
discrimination in public accommodations 91 years before the U.S. Supreme 
Court reached the same decision.[139] In 1884, the Iowa Civil Rights Act 
apparently outlawed discrimination by businesses, reading: "All persons 
within this state shall be entitled to the full and equal enjoyment of 
the accommodations, advantages, facilities, and privileges of inns, restaurants, 
chophouses, eating houses, lunch counters, and all other places where refreshments 
are served, public conveyances, barber shops, bathhouses, theaters, and 
all other places of amusement." However, the courts chose to narrowly apply 
this act, allowing de facto discrimination to continue.[145] Racial discrimination 
at public businesses was not deemed illegal until 1949, when the court 
ruled in State of Iowa v. Katz that businesses had to serve customers regardless 
of race; the case began when Edna Griffin was denied service at a Des Moines 
drugstore.[146] Full racial civil rights were codified under the Iowa Civil 
Rights Act of 1965.[147] As with racial equality, Iowa was a vanguard in 
women's rights in the mid-19th century, but was slow to give women the 
right to vote. In 1847, the University of Iowa became the first public 
university in the U.S. to admit men and women on an equal basis.[148] In 
1869, Iowa became the first state in the union to admit women to the practice 
of law, with the Court ruling that women may not be denied the right to 
practice law in Iowa and admitting Arabella A. Mansfield to the practice 
of law.[139] Several attempts to grant full voting rights to Iowa women 
were defeated between 1870 and 1919. In 1894 women were given "partial 
suffrage", which allowed them to vote on issues, but not for candidates. 
It was not until the Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution 
was ratified in 1920 that women had full suffrage in Iowa.[149] Although 
Iowa supported the Federal Equal Rights Amendment, in 1980 and 1992 Iowa 
voters rejected an Equal Rights Amendment to the state constitution.[150] 
Iowa did add the word "women" to the Iowa Constitution in 1998. After Amendment, 
it reads: "All men and women are, by nature, free and equal, and have certain 
inalienable rights — among which are those of enjoying and defending life 
and liberty, acquiring, possessing and protecting property, and pursuing 
and obtaining safety and happiness." [151] Post-Civil Rights era court 
decisions in Iowa clarified and expanded citizens' rights. The landmark 
U.S. Supreme Court case Tinker v. Des Moines (1969) confirmed the right 
of students to express political views. The state's law criminalizing same-sex 
sexual activity was repealed in June 1976, 27 years before Lawrence v. 
Texas. On April 3, 2009, the Iowa Supreme Court decided Varnum v. Brien,[152] 
holding in a unanimous decision,[153] that the state's law forbidding same-sex 
marriage was unconstitutional. This made Iowa the third state in the U.S. 
and first in the Midwest to permit same-sex marriage.[154] [155] (See LGBT 
rights in Iowa.) Iowa has nine official partner jurisdictions:[156] Iowa 
is often credited with the start of the high school movement in the U.S. 
Around 1910, secondary schools as we know them today were established across 
the state, which was unprecedented at the time. As the high school movement 
gathered pace and went beyond Iowa, there was clear evidence of how more 
time spent in school led to greater income.[citation needed] The four-year 
graduation rate for high schoolers was 90% in 2015.[157] The state has 
the top graduation rate in the nation.[158] Iowa has 365 school districts,[159] 
and has the 12th lowest student-to-teacher ratio of 13.8.[160] Teacher 
pay is ranked 42nd, with the average salary being $39,284.[160] The Iowa 
State Board of Education works with the Iowa Department of Education to 
provide oversight, supervision, and support for the state's education system 
that includes all public elementary and secondary schools, nonpublic schools 
that receive state accreditation, area education agencies, community colleges, 
and teacher preparation programs. The State Board consists of ten members: 
nine voting members who are appointed by the governor for six-year terms 
and subject to Senate confirmation; and one nonvoting student member who 
serves a one-year term, also appointed by the governor. The Iowa Board 
of Educational Examiners is an autonomous board in control of teacher licensure 
standards and professional discipline; it has a majority of licensed teachers 
as members and is the oldest state educational board.[citation needed] 
The Iowa Board of Regents is composed of nine citizen volunteers appointed 
by the governor to provide policymaking, coordination, and oversight of 
the state's public universities, two special K-12 schools, and affiliated 
centers. Iowa's three public universities include: The special K-12 schools 
include the Iowa School for the Deaf in Council Bluffs and the Iowa Braille 
and Sight Saving School in Vinton. Both Iowa State University and the University 
of Iowa are major research institutions and members of the prestigious 
Association of American Universities. In addition to the three state universities, 
Iowa has multiple private colleges and universities. Private colleges and 
universities include: Private liberal arts colleges include: The state 
has four major college teams playing in Division I for all sports. In football, 
Iowa State University and the University of Iowa compete in the Football 
Bowl Subdivision (FBS), whereas the University of Northern Iowa and Drake 
University compete in the Football Championship Subdivision (FCS). Although 
Iowa has no professional major league sports teams, Iowa has minor league 
sports teams in baseball, basketball, hockey, and other sports. The following 
table shows the Iowa sports teams with average attendance over 8,000. All 
of the following teams are NCAA Division I football teams or basketball 
teams:[161][162][163] The state has four NCAA Division I college teams. 
In NCAA FBS, the University of Iowa Hawkeyes play in the Big Ten Conference 
and the Iowa State University Cyclones compete in the Big 12 Conference. 
The two intrastate rivals compete annually for the Cy-Hawk Trophy as part 
of the Iowa Corn Cy-Hawk Series. In NCAA FCS, the University of Northern 
Iowa Panthers play at the Missouri Valley Conference and Missouri Valley 
Football Conference (despite the similar names, the conferences are administratively 
separate), whereas the Drake University Bulldogs play at the Missouri Valley 
Conference in most sports and Pioneer League for football. Des Moines is 
home to the Iowa Cubs, a Class AAA team in the Pacific Coast League and 
affiliate of the Chicago Cubs. Iowa has four Class A minor league teams 
in the Midwest League. They are the Burlington Bees, Cedar Rapids Kernels, 
Clinton LumberKings, and the Quad Cities River Bandits. The Sioux City 
Explorers are part of the American Association of Independent Professional 
Baseball. Des Moines is home to the Iowa Wild, who are affiliated with 
the Minnesota Wild and are members of the American Hockey League. The Quad 
City Mallards games are played in Moline, Illinois as part of the Central 
Hockey League. The United States Hockey League has five teams in Iowa: 
the Cedar Rapids RoughRiders, Sioux City Musketeers, Waterloo Black Hawks, 
Des Moines Buccaneers, and the Dubuque Fighting Saints. The North Iowa 
Bulls play in the North American Hockey League in Mason City, Iowa. The 
Quad City Jr Flames are a Tier III Jr. A hockey team located in Davenport, 
Iowa and are part of the Central States Hockey League. The Des Moines Menace 
of the USL Premier Development League play their home games at Valley Stadium 
in West Des Moines, Iowa. Starting in the 2015-16 season of the Major Arena 
Soccer League, the Cedar Rapids Rampage will have its own indoor soccer 
team playing in the U.S. Cellular Center. Iowa has two professional basketball 
teams. The Iowa Energy, an NBA Development League team that plays in Des 
Moines, is affiliated with the Memphis Grizzlies of the NBA. The Sioux 
City Hornets play in the American Basketball Association. Iowa has three 
professional football teams. The Sioux City Bandits play in the Champions 
Indoor Football league. The Iowa Barnstormers play in the Indoor Football 
League at Wells Fargo Arena in Des Moines. The Cedar Rapids Titans play 
in the Indoor Football League at the U.S. Cellular Center. The Iowa Speedway 
oval track has hosted auto racing championships such as the IndyCar Series, 
NASCAR Nationwide Series and NASCAR Truck Series since 2006. Also, the 
Knoxville Raceway dirt track hosts the Knoxville Nationals, one of the 
classic sprint car racing events. The John Deere Classic is a PGA Tour 
golf event held at Iowa since 1971. The Principal Charity Classic is a 
Champions Tour event since 2001. The Des Moines Golf and Country Club hosted 
the 1999 U.S. Senior Open and has scheduled the 2017 Solheim Cup. Iowa 
was the birthplace of U.S. President Herbert Hoover, Vice President Henry 
A. Wallace, and two first ladies, Lou Henry Hoover and Mamie Eisenhower. 
Other national leaders who lived in Iowa include President Ronald Reagan, 
President Richard Nixon, John L. Lewis, Harry Hopkins, Carrie Chapman Catt, 
Jefferson Davis, Chief Black Hawk, and John Brown. Five Nobel Prize winners 
hail from Iowa: Norman Borlaug, recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize; Thomas 
Cech, recipient of the Nobel Prize in Chemistry; Alan J. Heeger, also a 
recipient of the Nobel Prize in Chemistry; John Mott, recipient of the 
Nobel Peace Prize; and Stanley B. Prusiner, recipient of the Nobel Prize 
in Physiology or Medicine. Other notable scientists who worked or were 
born in Iowa include astronomer and space pioneer James A. Van Allen, ecologist 
Aldo Leopold, computer pioneer John Vincent Atanasoff, inventor and plant 
scientist George Washington Carver, geochemist Clair Cameron Patterson, 
and Intel founder Robert Noyce. Notable writers, artists, and news personalities 
from Iowa include Bill Bryson, Corey Taylor, George Gallup, Susan Glaspell, 
Mauricio Lasansky, Tomas Lasansky, Harry Reasoner, Phil Stong, and Grant 
Wood. Musicians, actors, and entertainers from Iowa include Tom Arnold, 
Bix Beiderbecke, Johnny Carson, Buffalo Bill Cody, Simon Estes, Nathan 
Jonas Jordison, Corey Taylor, Shawn Crahan, William Frawley, Charlie Haden, 
Ashton Kutcher, Cloris Leachman, Glenn Miller, Kate Mulgrew, Donna Reed, 
George Reeves, Brandon Routh, Jean Seberg, John Wayne, Brooks Wheelan, 
Andy Williams, Meredith Willson, and Elijah Wood. Many athletes from Iowa 
have become famous enough to be noted in the List of people from Iowa. 
Iowa athletes winning Olympic gold medals are Tom Brands, Jay Clark, Chuck 
Darling, Dan Gable, Shawn Johnson, Edward Lindberg, Allie Morrison, George 
Saling, Cael Sanderson, Kenneth Sitzberger, Doreen Wilber and Frank Wykoff. 
Iowa athletes inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame include Cap Anson, 
Fred Clarke, and Bob Feller. In college football, Jay Berwanger was the 
first winner of the Downtown Athletic Club Trophy in 1935, later renamed 
the Heisman Trophy and won by Nile Kinnick in 1939. In professional football, 
Kurt Warner was the Super Bowl XXXIV MVP winner and a two-time NFL MVP 
award winner. Frank Gotch was a World Heavyweight Wrestling Champion, Zach 
Johnson won the 2007 Masters Golf Tournament and the 2015 British Open, 
and Jeremy Hellickson won the 2011 American League Rookie of the Year award 
pitching for the Tampa Bay Rays. Former WWE Heavyweight Champion, Seth 
Rollins, is from Davenport, IA. Coordinates: 42°N 93°W﻿ / ﻿42°N 93°W﻿ / 
