Isao Harimoto (張本 勲 Harimoto Isao, born June 19, 1940 in Hiroshima, Japan) 
is a Korean former Nippon Professional Baseball player and holder of the 
record for most hits in the Japanese professional leagues. An ethnic Korean, 
his birth name is Jang Hun (Hangul: 장훈, Hanja: 張勲).[1] Harimoto has spent 
his life as a resident of Japan and adopted a Japanese name, but remains 
a Korean citizen,[2] thus making him a Zainichi Korean. He was inducted 
into the Japanese Baseball Hall of Fame in 1990 and now works as a television 
baseball analyst. Harimoto's family relocated to Japan from Korea for better 
economic opportunities shortly before he was born, while the Korean peninsula 
was under Japanese colonial rule, and settled in Hiroshima. Burns suffered 
in an accident at the age of four severely injured his right hand, with 
the middle three fingers scarred and largely useless, frozen into a curled 
position. This forced him to become a left-handed thrower and hitter, and 
to use a custom glove that fit over his damaged hand while still allowing 
him to catch the ball. Fortunately, the scarred fingers were bent in such 
a way that a baseball bat could be slid between them. Harimoto speaks of 
practicing swinging the bat as a child with only his right hand, trying 
to strengthen the injured limb to make it useful.[2] Harimoto would survive 
the release of an atomic bomb over Hiroshima on August 6, 1945, and has 
been identified as the only survivor of that incident to play professional 
baseball in Japan. He survived without injuries because the family home 
was located in the shadow of a mountain and shielded from the blast, but 
lost a sister who was in the blast zone.[2] Later in life, he would become 
a member of the Japanese Hibakusha Movement, a project dedicated to outlawing 
global nuclear weaponry, and gaining compensation for victims of their 
use. Harimoto began his professional career with the Toei Flyers in 1959, 
when he was selected as rookie of the year.[3] He was a dangerous hitter 
who combined both power and speed. His 3085 career hits is the Nippon Professional 
Baseball record. Among Japanese-born players, Ichiro Suzuki passed Harimoto's 
hit total in 2009 based on his combined career in Japan and the American 
major leagues. Harimoto remains the only player to accumulate more than 
3000 in Japan, a mark he reached with a home run on May 28, 1980, while 
playing for the Lotte Orions.[2] After reaching this milestone, Harimoto 
was awarded the South Korean Order of Sport Merit Maengho Medal (국민훈장 맹호장; 
Maengho, literally Fierce Tiger), a prize for excellence in sports.[3] 
With 504 career home runs, Harimoto ranks seventh on the list of all-time 
leaders in Japan. After joining the Yomiuri Giants in 1976, he hit behind 
Sadaharu Oh in the lineup and was on deck when Oh hit his 756th home run 
to pass Hank Aaron's mark in America. Harimoto's 319 stolen bases gives 
him an unusual combination of 3000 hits, 500 home runs, and 300 stolen 
bases, a set of milestones reached only by Willie Mays in the American 
major leagues.[2] After his retirement, he mainly works for Tokyo Broadcasting 
System (TBS) as a baseball commentator. He appears on a news program named 
