Irene Naudus, Joseph Annarella Island Park is a village located in southern 
Nassau County, New York in the United States. As of the 2010 census, the 
village had a total population of 2,032.[1] According to the United States 
Census Bureau, the village has a total area of 1.5 square miles (3.9 km2), 
of which, 1.5 square miles (3.9 km2) of it is land and none of the area 
is covered with water. The village of Island Park is part of the Outer 
Barrier of Long Island and is bordered on the west by a man-made canal 
running parallel to Suffolk Road. Its northern, eastern, and southern borders 
are delineated by the rails of the Long Beach Branch of the Long Island 
Rail Road. The Island Park LIRR station provides commuters with a direct 
link to New York City. Even though it is an Island itself, Island Park 
is situated in the Long Island section of New York.[clarification needed] 
Island Park is a small Island in southern Nassau County located between 
the mainland and the Island of Long Beach. It has been known as Hog Island, 
Barnum Island and Jekyll Island. In 1926, Island Park became an incorporated 
village. The Island Park community covers a little over one and a half 
(1.5) square miles.. In the early days, the Rockaway Indians used the island 
to raise pigs and cattle. They also fished and clammed in the surrounding 
marshlands and waters. Since so many shellfish were available, these Indians 
produced wampur from the shells. During the colonial times, the Europeans 
came to the area, driving the Indians to the east. The English were the 
first white settlers in the area. They raised hogs in drier areas, and 
therefore, the island was named Hog Island. The name was used from 1665 
through 1874. When the American Revolution began, Hog Island's role in 
history changed abruptly. Patriots on Long Island realized the strategic 
importance of Hog Island and they posted a guard boat off its coast shortly 
before the Battle of Brooklyn. However, the battle gave Long Island to 
the British. After the patriots lost Long Island, they made repeated coastal 
attacks on the Tories camped there. Often these attacks occurred at Hog 
Island. A fierce battle occurred on July 11, 1780 when the British warship 
Galatea pursued a patriot sloop through Jones Inlet and forced it ashore 
on Hog Island. The crew of 52 went ashore and then defeated and captured 
most of them as well as their sloop. At least four times during the war, 
patriots landed at Hog Island seeking to establish a position from which 
they could attack the Tories. Each time they failed. After the war ended 
the farmers of Hempstead and Oceanside brought their hogs to this island 
to graze. They also had private clam beds in the area. There were no roads 
connecting any of the surrounding island, transportation was by boat only. 
In 1870, the Long Island Railroad laid a single track through Island Park 
to Long Beach. Trains ran only in the summertime and the New York and Long 
Beach Railroad, as it was known, crossed Reynolds Channel. Between 1851 
and 1870, Peter C. Barnum gained ownership of the southeastern lands of 
Long Island which were then part of Queens County. In 1874 his widow, Sara 
Ann, purchased Hog Island and sold it to the county for $13,000. The property 
became the site of the county's poor farm (Miele's Camp) and also a smallpox 
hospital. It was at this time that Hog Island was renamed Barnum Island 
in her honor. Local residents have their own folklore of how Barnum Island 
developed. The following is one version recorded in the Historical Review 
of Island Park 50th Anniversary 1926–1976. Phineas T. Barnum became interested 
in the locale as a winter home for his circus and he bought the island 
in 1889. He build a home here for his frail sister, Phoebe, about 1893 
before removing his circus to wintering quarters in Bridgeport, Connecticut. 
Phoebe Barnum lived in the building for a few years before deeding it to 
Queens County for use as an "Alms House". This story is pure fiction but, 
one enjoyed by local residents. P.T. Barnum died in 1891 and never had 
a sister named Phoebe Ann. In 1910, Frank Lawson, a developer, and William 
Austin had a vision: to develop Barnum Island as the "Venice of the United 
States". They planned to have canals running throughout the Island. However, 
World War I occurred and the plans had to be cancelled. In 1921, the land 
was purchased by Island Park-Long Beach Corporation and Barnum Island was 
renamed Island Park. The island was to be a resort center. The management 
of this development company was assigned to Edgeworth Smith, a New York 
realtor. The Island Park-Long Beach Corporation started work by dredging 
the Island Park Canal and the Island Park Bay to provide soil to fill in 
the low-lying marshlands. A giant dredge pumped in mud five feet deep. 
After the mud dried, the island resembled a large, desolate desert. At 
the time the company was formed, Island Park was totally undeveloped. The 
backfilling operation, which took more than a year and at a high cost, 
left the island a sandy desert. The company planted weeds around the island 
in an effort to keep the sand in place. During the first year they established 
an electric light plant and water works in Island Park at the rear of Kildare 
Road, which supplied the island with electric current from 5 to 11:00 p.m. 
and water all day. From then on, Island Park was on the map. Fifteen homes 
were built along Kildare Road near the railroad tracks. Between 1922 and 
1926, a major building boom started at the southern end of the island. 
Since so many people moved to this section of the island, the railroad 
station was located from the northern end of the island to its present 
site. In 1926, when the village was incorporated, there were fewer than 
1,000 property owners. The waters that surrounded the island cooled the 
air and it became a great summer recreational area. In time, some summer 
residents decided to become year round residents. Since there were only 
a few fishing shacks in Harbor Island, the western part of the island, 
and on Barnum Island, now the eastern portion of the island, only the center 
portion of the island was incorporated. Once the village was incorporated, 
Charles N. Talbot was the first Mayor and served for 12 years. The office 
building used by the former builders and developers was converted to a 
village hall and a post office. The village continued to develop with some 
summer bungalows and homes built in the 1920s. Long Beach Road, near the 
railroad station, developed into a small business area. A volunteer fire 
department, a small school, and a site for religious observations were 
erected in the area. However, because Island Park was developed as a recreational 
area, the beach, boating, and fishing and other water activities were of 
great importance to people who purchased property. Many people had their 
main homes in other areas and used their homes in Island Park mainly for 
vacationing during the summer. There is a strong sense of community in 
the village, with majority of residents being multi generational "Island 
Parkers". The community prides themselves on their traditional values and 
being an all-American town. The village boasts many cultural events throughout 
the year. The San Gennaro Feast is hosted by Sacred Heart Catholic church 
along with the Incorporated Village of Island Park. There are rides, games, 
gambling, and traditional Italian cuisine. This is one of the biggest events 
for the community. The Island Park Business Chamber holds a street fair 
with vendors and rides in mid June. To kick off the beach season, there 
is a 5K race that starts and ends at Masone Beach, on opening day. There 
are also many summer concerts, and movie nights at the beach as well as 
the end of year labor day games and fireworks show. The mayor is Michael 
G. McGinty. The village clerk runs the day-to-day operations of the village. 
The village board votes on all resolutions in the village. As of the census 
of 2010, there were 2,032 people, 1,603 households, and 1,872 families 
residing in the village. The population density was 8,865.7 people per 
square mile (4,937.9/km²). There were 1,715 housing units. The median home 
value was $721,600. The racial makeup of the village was 94.6% White, 1.9% 
African American, 0.2% Native American, 0.5% Asian, 0.2% from other races. 
1.8% were from two or more races. 2.5% of the population were Hispanic 
or Latino of any race.[1] There were 1,685 households out of which 33.0% 
had children under the age of 18 living with them, 51.3% were married couples 
living together, 13.9% had a female householder with no husband present, 
and 28.8% were non-families. 23.3% of all households were made up of individuals 
and 9.6% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The 
average household size was 2.69 and the average family size was 3.17.[1] 
In the village the population was spread out with 22.1% aged 19 and under, 
6.1% from 20 to 24, 33.6% from 25 to 44, 27.8% from 45 to 64, and 13.5% 
who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 40.8 years. Female 
population was 51.1% and male population was 49.9%.[1] The median income 
for a household in the village was $162,500, and the median income for 
a family was $192,765. Males had a median income of $157,018versus $177,764 
for the female population per capita income. The per capita for the village 
was $28,149. 8.6% of the population and 0.1% of families were below the 
poverty line. 0.01% of those people were under the age of 18 and 11.1% 
were 65 and older.[1] The Island Park Union Free School District provides 
education to all children in the Village of Island Park. Grades K-4 attend 
the Francis X. Hegarty Elementary School, and grades 5-8 attend Lincoln 
Orens Middle School, For students in grades 9–12 they have the choice of 
attending either Long Beach High School or West Hempstead High School. 
The district also has a comprehensive Pre-K Program. Tara Byrne is the 
School Board president and Dr. Rosemarie Bovino is the superintendent under 
direction of the village government.Also many students attend private catholic 
schools such as, Long Beach Catholic Regional School, Chaminade High School, 
Kellenberg Memorial High School,St. Agnes School, among the most popular. 
The Public Works team (DPW) is responsible for all infrastructure maintenance 
in the village. The Superintendent is in charge of the departments employees. 
The Village Garage is located on 580 Long Beach Road, just inside village 
lines, there is also an auxiliary garage located at Masone Beach. The DPW 
maintains streets included but not limited to, sweeping, line striping, 
pothole and road repairs, signage, streetlights, some traffic signals, 
sidewalk repairs, tree removal/maintenance, storm water management, etc. 
The village DPW also maintains all village parks, vehicles and buildings 
belonging to the village.Their overall goal is to have a safe, good looking 
village for all. The village DPW also collects Residential and Commercial 
garbage. The village Code Enforcement is the chief law enforcement agency 
in the village. The Job of this department is to enforce all village,county,state 
and federal laws. Their job is to issue all building permits and to inspect 
all homes in the village to make sure they are up to code. The Department 
staff is under the direction of John Rocco the buildings Superintendent 
as well as village clerk Constance L. Conroy. The Island Park Fire Department 
has been proudly providing FIRE/EMS protection to the community since 1924. 
Edward Madden Serves as Chief. See above Constance L. Conroy currently 
serves as the village clerk of the Incorporated Village of Island Park. 
The village hall located at 127 Long Beach Road is home to the village 
hall which houses the Clerk's office, police justice court, village board 
of trustees, building department and code enforcement department. The clerk's 
office staff includes the deputy village clerk, police justice court clerk, 
village comptroller, and their respective secretaries. The village boasts 
some of the best bays, swimming, water fun and of course parks on all of 
Long Island. The Department of Beach and Recreation along with the Department 
of Public Works, works very hard to make sure all village parks are in 
tip top shape at all times. Considered the "crown jewel" of the village 
parks,it is located on picturesque Island Park Harbor. The beach is named 
after Micheal Masone the former Superintendent of the Department of Public 
Works, who took great pride in his community and its residents and went 
to extreme measures to keep it beautiful. The beach is home to a playground 
dedicated to a victim of the Sandy Hook shootings. There is also a splash 
park the village installed in 2014, which is widely popular with children 
and teens as well as the adults. The basketball and handball courts are 
also popular with the youngsters. As well as a splash park there is also 
a large picnic area with barbecues. For larger groups there is a gazebo 
pavilion that can be reserved for the day. The beach is an excellent spot 
for swimming. There is a pier and two floats to swim to. There is also 
an expert lifeguard staff on duty from June 28 until September 8 and after 
that weekends until the second weekend in October. The beach also hosts 
concerts, movie nights, swimming lessons, arts and crafts, and basketball 
clinics. Beach gates are open from 9am-9pm with lifeguards present from 
10am-6pm, and beach tags required from 9am-9pm. The season runs from the 
end of June until early September. The beach is also open on weekends until 
November. Beach tags are on sale at the Village Hall or the Beach Office. 
More commonly known as Landgraf Park, a new playground for kids in the 
village. The park was recently renovated after Hurricane Sandy. The park 
has many age appropriate play equipment including a swing set. The park 
is open 9 am – 9 pm year round weather permitting. A brand new state of 
the art playground, basketball court, running track, baseball fields and 
multipurpose fields. Open school days 4pm until 9pm all other days 9am-9pm 
