The Italian Baseball League (IBL; Italian: Campionato italiano di baseball) 
is a professional baseball league that is governed by FIBS (Italian Baseball 
& Softball Federation), which has its headquarters in Rome. The IBL is 
a wood bat league in which both composite and aluminum bat are prohibited; 
the official ball of the IBL is the Wilson 1010 Italy. The overall level 
of the competition is considered the highest in Europe. Until 2010, the 
IBL featured a league format that demoted and relegated the last place 
finisher to the minor leagues (Series A2), while the Series A2 champion 
would be promoted into the IBL. However, in late 2009 FIBS approved the 
decision to eliminate the promotion and relegation system starting with 
the 2010 season and thus will apply a fixed team franchise format similar 
to that found in Major League Baseball. The current IBL consists of eight 
teams, each contesting 42 games; a team plays two 3-game series against 
every other team. The four teams that finish with the best regular season 
record qualify for a round-robin playoff. The first and second-place finishers 
of the round-robin are cast into the best-of-7-games Italian Baseball Series 
and compete for the championship, referred to as the Scudetto. For the 
2010 season, FIBS maintained the number of sport visas granted to non-EU 
import foreign players at 4 per team. Per EU and Olympic Committee directive, 
EU citizens will have the same player rights of Italian passport holders. 
FIBS, however, will continue to enforce the regulation on the Italian School 
of Baseball that imposes 6 ASI players be on the field at all times of 
every game, including the pitcher in either game 2 or 3 of each series. 
An Italian player is classified as Italian School of Baseball, or ASI, 
only if he has been developed in Italy or if has played 6 seasons in the 
Italian Leagues. EU citizens have the same rights of the players who hold 
Italian citizenship but were not developed in Italy. One particular case 
of the ASI rule would be a foreigner who developed as a baseball player 
in Italy (started playing as an U15). This is the case of a foreigner who 
is also an ASI, but will be able to play only respecting the limitation 
on import players. Game 1 of each three-game series is classified as the 
Foreign Affair Game, with the pitcher's mound free to be occupied by any 
pitcher including foreign imports. In either Game 2 or Game 3, an EU pitcher 
may be the starting pitcher; however, IBL rules require that an ASI be 
the starting pitcher for one of these two remaining games. Moreover, whichever 
game a manager selects the ASI as the starting pitcher, then all subsequent 
pitchers must be ASI. Therefore, there may be ASI vs EU match-ups for the 
first time beginning in 2010. Half of the teams are based in the Emilia-Romagna 
region of Italy. A team from the Republic of San Marino also plays in the 
IBL. Like Japanese baseball, many of the official team names contain the 
