Ivers Whitney Adams (May 20, 1838 – October 10, 1914) was an American baseball 
executive and businessperson, and founder of the first professional baseball 
team in Boston, the Boston Red Stockings. Adams was the Founder, Organizer 
and First President of the Boston Base Ball Association, the legal corporation 
that operated the baseball club initially known as the Boston Red Stockings. 
The club was Boston's first professional baseball team, continues to operate 
today as the Atlanta Braves, and is the longest continuously operating 
team in Major League Baseball. On January 20, 1871, the Boston Base Ball 
Association was legally organized by Adams with $15,000 raised from investors 
and the commitment of Harry Wright, manager of America's first professional 
baseball team, the Cincinnati Red Stockings, to manage the new Boston club. 
The attention of the baseball world in 1870 was turned to the Red Stockings 
of Cincinnati. The Wrights, Harry and George, were known to be the leading 
spirits of that team. Mr. Adams' attention was called to them, and in conversation 
with a leading local cricketer at that time, he became convinced the Wrights 
were the men wanted, and failing to secure them, the effort would be abandoned. 
A correspondence was opened, resulting in Mr. Adams visiting Cincinnati 
and meeting the Wrights. Subsequently George came to Boston, and during 
the following few weeks, while here as Mr. Adams' guest and in constant 
communication with Harry in Cincinnati, the first Boston team was determined 
upon at a meeting held at the Parker House on January 10, 1870." -From 
George V. Tuohey (1897). A History of the Boston Baseball Club – A concise 
and accurate history of Base Ball from its inception. Boston: M.F. Quinn 
& Co. p. 64.  Adams was a native of Ashburnham, Massachusetts, but left 
the town at the age of 19 to seek his fortune in Boston. He became the 
president of the American Net and Twine Company, which was the largest 
manufacturer of its kind in the world at that time. Throughout his life 
Adams kept an interest in the activities of his home community. Adams was 
an enthusiastic sportsman, he had a fishing lodge in Canada, from which 
he sent his Ashburnham friends fresh salmon, and a hunting preserve in 
Virginia. He was interested in the propagation of fish, and for some years 
leased from the town of Ashburnham, Upper Naukeag Lake, where he maintained 
a summer home on an island. One of Ashburnham's problems which concerned 
Adams was the town's inadequate water system. Adams presented Ashburnham 
with a new water system, which included a pumping station at Upper Naukeag 
Lake, a storage tank at Bulkeleys Corner and six and a half miles of new 
water mains. The town's new water system was dedicated on Columbus Day 
in 1912. Adams was the guest of honor. Bela Pratt's sculpture, Ashburnham's 
Schoolboy of 1850, was presented to the town of Ashburnham and Schools 
by Adams in 1913, a year before his death. The statue is a life size bronze 
figure on a granite base and depicts a 12-year-old schoolboy walking to 
his one-room district school in 1850. The boy is barefoot, wears a straw 
hat and is carrying a writing slate and lunch pail. Adams gave the statue 
to the town to honor and encourage young country boys, like he was at one 
point was, to value education so they could take their love of nature, 
community spirit and creative thinking learned in the Ashburnham pioneering 
woods out into the world. The Schoolboy Statue of 1850 stands now at the 
corner of School and Main Street, near the entrance of Cushing Academy. 
