John George Taylor Spink (November 6, 1888 – December 7, 1962), or Taylor 
Spink, was the publisher of The Sporting News from 1914 until his death 
in 1962. He inherited the weekly American baseball newspaper from his father 
Charles Spink, younger brother of its founder Alfred H. Spink. Upon Taylor 
Spink's death in 1962, the Baseball Writers' Association of America established 
the annual J. G. Taylor Spink Award, given to writers "for meritorious 
contributions to baseball writing", and made him its first recipient. "Taylor 
Spink is first-class. Everything he does is first-class. He travels first-class, 
he works first-class. He nightclubs first-class and he tips first-class. 
His paper is first-class. He demands the best and he gets it." Spink was 
born on November 6, 1888 in St. Louis, Missouri, the son of Charles and 
Marie (née Taylor) Spink. In an interview with Sports Illustrated, Gerald 
Holland described Spink's mother as "a great character in her own right".[1] 
In 1913, Taylor was an official scorer for the World Series between the 
Philadelphia Athletics and the New York Giants.[2] Charles had acquired 
The Sporting News from its founder, his brother Alfred H. Spink, and Taylor 
Spink inherited the paper when Charles died in 1914. Taylor Spink ran TSN 
until his death. On the issue of racial integration in baseball, Spink 
wrote there "was no good" in raising the issue.[3] During his tenure, the 
company published its first Baseball Register in 1940.[4] Author Richard 
Peterson credits his leadership as a reason why the paper became "the Bible 
of baseball".[5] Spink died on December 7, 1962, and is buried in a mausoleum 
at Bellefontaine Cemetery; upon his death, The Sporting News passed to 
his son, C. C. Johnson Spink.[6] Following his death, the Baseball Writers' 
Association of America inaugurated the J. G. Taylor Spink Award in his 
honor, awarded annually at the induction ceremonies of the Baseball Hall 
of Fame; Spink was the first recipient. The annual award is given "for 
meritorious contributions to baseball writing".[7] Around the same time, 
Minor League Baseball instituted its J.G. Taylor Spink Award for the Topps/Minor 
League Player of the Year.[8] In 1969, Spink was inducted into the National 
