The J. G. Taylor Spink Award is the highest award given by the Baseball 
Writers' Association of America (BBWAA). The award was instituted in 1962 
and named after J. G. Taylor Spink, publisher of The Sporting News from 
1914 to 1962, who was also the first recipient. The recipient does not 
have to be a member of the BBWAA, but every recipient from the award's 
inception through 2013 had been a BBWAA member at some time; the first 
recipient to have never have been a member was 2014 recipient Roger Angell.[1] 
The Spink Award is presented at the induction festivities of the Baseball 
Hall of Fame in the year following the selection of the recipient. Through 
2010, the award was presented during the actual induction ceremony; since 
then, it has been presented at the Hall of Fame Awards Presentation, held 
the day before the induction ceremony. In recent years, the Hall of Fame 
has announced the finalists for the award and final vote totals. Previously, 
the results were kept secret. Winners are not considered to be members 
of the Hall. They are not "inducted" or "enshrined", but are permanently 
recognized in an exhibit at the Hall's library. For several years in the 
early 2000s, Spink Award honorees became life members of the Veterans Committee, 
which elects players whose eligibility for BBWAA consideration has ended, 
and is also the sole body that elects non-players for induction into the 
Hall. Starting with elections for induction in 2008, voting on the main 
Veterans Committee, which then selected only players whose careers began 
in 1943 or later, was restricted to Hall of Fame members. After further 
changes announced for the 2011 and 2017 elections, Spink Award winners 
are eligible to serve on all of the era-based voting bodies that replaced 
the Veterans Committee (three from 2011 to 2016, and four from 2017 forward). 
Among the well-known Spink Award winners are Fred Lieb, Shirley Povich, 
Jerome Holtzman, Ring Lardner, Wendell Smith, Sam Lacy, and Peter Gammons. 
Note: For the years below — through 2006 — the year reflects when the recipient 
was announced; the award is formally presented the following year. In 2007, 
the BBWAA changed the year designation for the award to coincide with the 
Hall of Fame induction ceremony, i.e., the year after the award is announced. 
This makes it appear as though 2007 was skipped, though it was not. This 
award should not be confused with the identically named J.G. Taylor Spink 
Award, which is awarded to the Minor League Player of the Year by the Topps 
