John Paul (J. P.) Ricciardi (born September 26, 1959) is a Major League 
Baseball executive who currently is a special assistant to New York Mets 
General Manager Sandy Alderson.[1] Ricciardi has previously served as Senior 
Vice President of Baseball Operations and general manager of the Toronto 
Blue Jays from November 14, 2001 to October 3, 2009. Ricciardi went to 
and played baseball for St. Peter's/St. Peter-Marian High School in Worcester, 
and then played for the Saint Leo University Lions from 1979 through 1980. 
He then spent two years as an infielder in the New York Mets minor league 
system, playing for the Mets' A-class league affiliates in Little Falls 
in 1980 and Shelby in 1981. He finished his playing career with a batting 
average below .200.[2] After the conclusion of his playing career, Ricciardi 
became a coach in the New York Yankees farm system in the early 1980s before 
joining the Oakland Athletics organization in 1986 as a minor league instructor 
and scout. By the early 1990s he had risen to the rank of East Coast Scouting 
Supervisor and later National Crosschecker. Ricciardi made his break into 
the front office in 1996, when he became special assistant to Athletics 
general manager Sandy Alderson. Under new general manager Billy Beane, 
who was hired in 1997 and had been Ricciardi's former teammate with the 
Little Falls Mets,[3] his role became Director of Player Personnel. Impressed 
by the success Ricciardi and Beane were having with the low-budget Athletics, 
the Toronto Blue Jays, who sought to cut payroll while becoming more competitive 
after their acquisition by Canadian media giant Rogers Communications, 
sought Ricciardi's services after firing then-general manager Gord Ash.[citation 
needed] During his tenure, the Blue Jays never made the playoffs, coming 
closest in 2006, when they finished second in their division.[4] On November 
14, 2001, Ricciardi was hired as general manager of the Blue Jays. He signed 
a five-year contract with Toronto after the 2002 season, which was extended 
to 2010 after the 2005 season. After arriving in Toronto, one of Ricciardi's 
first deals was to send hard-throwing reliever Billy Koch to the Athletics 
for third baseman Eric Hinske and pitcher Justin Miller. Over the next 
few years, Ricciardi would develop a reputation for coziness with his former 
team, making deals with Oakland for starting pitcher Cory Lidle in November 
2002 and another starting pitcher, Ted Lilly, in November 2003. After a 
surprising 2003 campaign, which saw the emergence of Roy Halladay and Vernon 
Wells, the team suffered its worst season since 1980, in 2004, mainly due 
to injuries to key players such as Wells and star slugger Carlos Delgado. 
Delgado became a free agent in the off-season, and for financial reasons 
the Blue Jays did not seriously pursue re-signing him; the Florida Marlins 
eventually inked him to a contract. During the 2004 season, Ricciardi hired 
former Shelby teammate John Gibbons as the Blue Jays' new manager. Gibbons 
remained as Blue Jays' manager until being fired on June 20, 2008. Ricciardi's 
arrival in Toronto had been greeted with great optimism and enthusiasm 
after the team had suffered through several disappointing seasons. The 
enthusiasm steadily waned, however, as the team repeatedly failed to qualify 
for the postseason. Ricciardi was given more freedom to move after Blue 
Jays owner Ted Rogers expanded the team's payroll to $210 million over 
three years prior to the 2005 season. In the 2005 MLB Draft, Ricciardi 
famously drafted Ricky Romero instead of Troy Tulowitzki, overruling the 
recommendations of his scouting staff.[5] While Romero would have modest 
success, even being named to the 2011 MLB All-Star Game as a Blue Jay before 
eventually being released by the team, Tulowitzki would have the better 
career, winning multiple awards with the Colorado Rockies. Coincidentally, 
Tulowitzki would join the Blue Jays 10 years later in a trade executed 
by Riccardi's successor, Alex Anthopoulos. After the 2005 season (in which 
the Blue Jays posted an 80-82 record), Ricciardi began working to improve 
Toronto's pitching, signing free agent starter A.J. Burnett and closer 
B.J. Ryan. He also secured two big bats in first baseman Lyle Overbay and 
slugging third baseman Troy Glaus via the trading block, and signed Gold 
Glove-winning catcher Bengie Molina as well. The additions paid significant 
dividends for the team in 2006, as the Blue Jays finished second in the 
tough American League East with an 87-75 record. It was the first time 
Toronto had finished above third in the division since winning the 1993 
World Series. Seeking to upgrade the everyday lineup as well, Ricciardi 
signed a two-year contract with experienced slugger and designated hitter 
Frank Thomas. However, due to his slow start in 2008, in which he batted 
just .167 with three home runs in his first 60 at-bats, Thomas was released 
in April of that year. Ricciardi also signed veteran shortstop Royce Clayton 
as a "stopgap" measure to shore up the middle infield for the 2007 season. 
During spring training of 2007, B.J. Ryan was suffering from an injury 
that Ricciardi initially reported to be a result of a bad back. It was 
later revealed that it was not a back injury that he was suffering from 
at all, but rather a more severe elbow injury which subsequently required 
season ending Tommy John surgery. When asked why he was not more upfront 
about Ryan's injury situation, Ricciardi responded by saying, “They're 
not lies if we know the truth.”[6] Despite the lack of hitting on his 2008 
ball club, Ricciardi had assembled one of the more effective pitching staffs 
in Major League Baseball, bolstered by bullpen pick-ups such as Scott Downs, 
Brian Tallet, Jesse Carlson, and Shawn Camp. Over the season, the team 
had the best ERA in baseball at 3.49 and the bullpen ERA of 2.94.[7] Early 
in the season, the Jays struggled, and the team fired manager John Gibbons, 
replacing him with former manager Cito Gaston.[8] Toronto ended the season 
on a high note, finishing with a final record of 86 wins and 76 losses, 
the organization's third-best showing since the 1993 season. In the middle 
of June 2008, with the Jays in last place in the American League East, 
Ricciardi appeared on local Toronto sports radio station The FAN 590, in 
which he fielded questions from fans. One fan insisted that the Jays should 
actively seek to acquire Cincinnati Reds outfielder Adam Dunn, to which 
Ricciardi responded with very negative personal comments about Dunn's passion 
for the game of baseball: On June 24, 2008 Ricciardi told Toronto media 
that he received a personal phone call from Dunn and personally apologized 
for the ad-lib comments, a conversation Dunn vehemently refuted in an interview 
with MLB.com.[10] Some again questioned Ricciardi's trustworthiness, but 
Ricciardi said, "All I know is the person I talked to said it was Adam 
Dunn. That's quite a prank to pull."[citation needed] During Roy Halladay's 
last home start of the 2009 season on September 25, a sign in the 500 level 
stating "Fire JP!" was hung over the railing. The sign was taken away by 
security at the bottom of the 2nd inning.[11] With two games remaining 
in what was a disappointing 2009 season, Ricciardi was fired on October 
3, 2009. The day before Blue Jays players had gone public with criticism 
over Gaston's managing style, and had asked for a meeting with team president 
Paul Beeston.[4] His firing was widely expected.[4] Ricciardi was replaced 
by assistant vice-president of baseball operations and assistant general 
manager, Alex Anthopoulos.[12] Anthopoulos was eventually made the permanent 
general manager for the Jays. On February 25, 2010 ESPN announced that 
Ricciardi would join Baseball Tonight as an analyst after spending three 
decades in Major League Baseball.[13] Ricciardi left ESPN to join the Mets 
front office in November 2010.[14] Ricciardi is married and lives with 
his family in West Boylston, MA. He has two sons, Mariano and Dante. He 
also has a brother Steve Ricciardi and sister Mary Sivo. He is also a fan 
