Jack Thomas "J. T." Snow, Jr. (born February 26, 1968) is a former Major 
League Baseball player. He played all but two games in his career as a 
first baseman, and played nine of his 13½ seasons with the San Francisco 
Giants. He was known for his exceptional defense, even though he was a 
very poor defender according to most advanced defensive metrics.[1][2] 
After his retirement as a player, Snow worked in radio and television broadcasting. 
He is now a special assistant to the general manager for the Giants.[3] 
Snow is the son of former NFL Los Angeles Rams Pro Bowl wide receiver Jack 
Snow and Merry Carole Shane, who died in 1998 from thyroid cancer. He has 
two sisters, Michelle and Stephanie.[4] Snow attended Los Alamitos High 
School in Los Alamitos, California and played baseball and football and 
basketball with future teammate Robb Nen. After high school, Snow played 
three seasons at the University of Arizona, where his teammates included 
Scott Erickson, Trevor Hoffman and Kevin Long.[5] Snow was drafted by the 
New York Yankees in the fifth round of the 1989 baseball amateur draft.[6] 
He broke into the Majors with the Yankees at the end of the 1992 season. 
Traded to the California Angels that year as part of the Jim Abbott deal, 
Snow played for them from 1993 to 1996 where he won his first two of what 
would be six career Gold Gloves. He was traded to the Giants after the 
1996 season for left-handed pitcher Allen Watson and minor league pitcher 
Fausto Macey.[7] While a switch-hitter earlier in his career, Snow batted 
exclusively left-handed after 1998. In 2000, he led the league in sacrifice 
flies with 14. After a two-year injury-riddled stretch from 2002 to 2003 
where his batting average was .246, Snow rebounded in 2004 with a .327 
average, hitting .387 after the All-Star break (which ranked second only 
to Ichiro Suzuki in the Major Leagues). In the 2002 World Series, Snow 
was scoring a run in Game 5 off a Kenny Lofton triple and lifted 3-year-old 
Darren Baker, the Giant's' batboy and son of then Giants’ manager Dusty 
Baker, by the jacket as he was crossing home plate. Darren had run out 
to collect Lofton's bat before the play was completed. This turned into 
a touching and memorable incident, but easily could have resulted in disaster 
with a small child wandering into the path of Snow and David Bell as they 
both barreled home to score. Following the incident with Darren Baker, 
Major League Baseball required batboys and girls to be at least 14 years 
of age.[8] A photograph of this incident now hangs in the Baseball Hall 
of Fame, in Cooperstown, New York. In the 2000 National League Division 
Series against the New York Mets, with the Giants trailing 4–1 in the bottom 
of the ninth, Snow hit a three-run pinch-hit homer against Mets reliever 
Armando Benítez. However, the Giants failed to capitalize on their momentum, 
eventually falling in the 10th inning and going on to lose the series. 
On June 26, 1999, Snow tagged out Los Angeles Dodgers pitcher Carlos Pérez 
using the "hidden ball trick", the last successful execution of the play 
in the 20th century.[9] Snow's tenure with the Giants effectively ended 
when the team declined to offer him salary arbitration before the 2006 
season. He signed a one-year, $2 million contract with the Boston Red Sox 
on January 6, 2006. After his father's death in 2006, Snow wore his father's 
number 84 in his honor.[10] He served primarily in a platoon with Kevin 
Youkilis at first base until he requested to be designated for assignment 
due to a lack of playing time. He was granted his designation June 19, 
and was officially released eight days later. At the end of the 2006 season, 
Snow retired from baseball and began working as a color commentator on 
Giants radio broadcasts alongside play-by-play announcer Dave Flemming. 
He also serves as an advisor to the Giants' general manager, Brian Sabean, 
and as a roving minor league instructor for the Giants. [1] When he returned 
for a visit to AT&T Park at the end of the 2006 season, Snow received a 
standing ovation when he was featured on the Jumbotron. On September 24, 
2008, the Giants signed Snow to a one-day contract to allow him to retire 
as a Giant. However, rather than immediately retiring after signing the 
symbolic contract and receiving no actual pay as is usually done, Snow 
was penciled into the starting lineup and took the field on September 27 
against the Dodgers, but was replaced before the first pitch. It was a 
move that allowed Snow to officially take the field as a Giants player 
one last time. Eugenio Vélez, Omar Vizquel, and Rich Aurilia threw balls 
in the dirt to mess with Snow during fielding practice prior to the first 
pitch, but Snow still made the plays. For his brief official appearance, 
