John F. Sheridan (1862 – November 2, 1914) was an American umpire in Major 
League Baseball. In his 30-year career as an official, he worked 18 seasons 
between 1890 and 1914 in three major leagues. Several of Sheridan's contemporaries 
considered him to be the best major league umpire. He pioneered the crouching 
stance used by modern umpires at home plate. In 1945, Sheridan was named 
to the Roll of Honor of the Baseball Hall of Fame. Sheridan was born in 
Decatur, Illinois.[1] His mother Bridget was born in Ireland.[2] During 
his childhood, Jack's family moved to San Jose, California, where he made 
his home thereafter. He enjoyed a brief career in the minor leagues as 
a second baseman. In 1883, Sheridan secured an advance of funds by convincing 
the manager of a Chattanooga minor league team that he would be an asset 
to the team. The manager was so disappointed in Sheridan's abilities that 
he took out an arrest warrant on the player. Sheridan was forced to repay 
the money he earned by working at a cigarette factory.[3] He turned to 
umpiring soon after traveling with a team of California players for an 
eastern tour. He began his career by umpiring in the Southern League in 
1885, then officiated in the California League from 1886–89, after which 
he gained his first major league experience in the sole season of the Players' 
League in 1890. Nearly all games in that era used a single umpire, and 
the most outstanding officials generally moved from league to league, going 
wherever the league presidents were perceived as being most supportive, 
both in salary and in affirming the umpires' field authority. After returning 
to the California League for the 1891 season, Sheridan umpired in the National 
League in 1892, then again in the Southern League in 1893. In 1894-95, 
he umpired in the Western League, where he first became associated with 
that league's president, Ban Johnson. Johnson was fiercely supportive of 
his umpiring staff, and apart from a brief return to the NL in 1896-97, 
Sheridan would remain an umpire in Johnson's league for the remainder of 
his career. In 1901, the Western League added several eastern cities and 
renamed itself the American League, and through a series of signings of 
NL players successfully established itself as a rival major league. In 
contrast to the rowdier NL, where umpires were routinely subjected to great 
abuse with little backing from the league office, Johnson staunchly defended 
his field officials and insisted that players and local authorities maintain 
respect for them. When he was not umpiring, Sheridan worked as an undertaker.[4] 
A 1905 newspaper article even described Sheridan as having announced his 
retirement to pursue undertaking in 1905.[5] Before the 1906 season, Sheridan 
renewed his contract with the American League.[6] In 1906, Sheridan ejected 
outfielder Tip O'Neill after an argument and may have been indirectly responsible 
for the end of O'Neill's career. The outfielder was replaced by Pat Dougherty, 
who won the position for the season. O'Neill did not play in the major 
leagues after that year.[7] He became the standard after which other umpires 
patterned themselves; after arriving in the AL at age 22 in 1906, Billy 
Evans regularly worked in a team with Sheridan for several years in order 
to study under the senior umpire, with Sheridan usually working behind 
the plate and Evans on the bases. Both Evans and fellow Hall of Famer Bill 
Klem regarded Sheridan as the game's greatest umpire. Many years later, 
Evans said, "Each day while working the bases I would follow every move 
of Sheridan, as he shifted his body and stance back of the plate to follow 
the flight of the ball."[8] Sheridan umpired in four of the first seven 
World Series: 1905, 1907, 1908 and 1910; he also umpired in the earlier 
Temple Cup NL championship series in 1896. In the winter of 1913–1914, 
he and Klem were the two umpires accompanying the Chicago White Sox and 
New York Giants on their world tour. Along with Bob Emslie and Tim Hurst, 
he is one of only three umpires who umpired both before 1893, when the 
pitching distance was only 50 feet, and also after the NL and AL formally 
recognized one another as major leagues in 1903. He is the only umpire 
active prior to 1893 who went on to officiate in a World Series. In September 
1911, Sheridan asked Johnson for permission to permanently retire from 
umpiring. Johnson presented Sheridan with a medal of appreciation and said 
that while Sheridan would retire from the field, he expected the umpire 
to return to the league in an off-the-field capacity the next season.[9] 
In March 1912, Sheridan said, "But I guess when the bell rings I'll be 
back in harness. Ban Johnson will need me when the fight grows hot."[10] 
He umpired between June and August of that season.[11] The Pittsburgh Press 
announced that Sheridan would retire before the 1913 season.[12] He joined 
the umpiring staff in late June that year.[13] He suffered sunstroke while 
umpiring a game at Chicago in August 1914, and never fully recovered from 
the affliction. He called his last game on September 24 at Chicago, and 
despite the pleas of fellow officials insisted on remaining in the city 
for the crosstown series between the White Sox and Cubs before traveling 
to his home in California. Once there, his condition continued to deteriorate 
until he died three weeks later at age 52, at the San Jose home of his 
sister. The day after Sheridan died, the San Francisco Chronicle wrote 
that he was "the most famous and oldest diamond official before the public 
and was popular because of his well-known honesty and ability." Over his 
14 seasons as the dean of AL umpires, Sheridan became the prototype of 
the 20th century umpire. Whereas umpires in the 19th century had worked 
behind the plate in a standing position, believing that it helped them 
to better observe the flight of the ball, Sheridan established the practice 
of crouching while calling balls and strikes, a move which was quickly 
adopted universally due to its effectiveness. He was also remarkable in 
that he refused to use any sort of protection other than a mask.[14] He 
was agile enough to reportedly never be hit by a foul ball. Sheridan was 
among the several umpires who were named to a Roll of Honor by the Baseball 
Hall of Fame in 1946, at a time when no umpires had yet received full membership 
in the Hall. In the initial voting for induction of umpires in 1953, he 
finished third in the voting behind inductees Bill Klem and Tommy Connolly, 
