The Jackie Robinson Foundation is a national, non-profit organization (501c3) 
which gives scholarships to minority youths for higher education, as well 
as preserving the legacy of Baseball Hall of Fame member, Jackie Robinson. 
The foundation was founded by Rachel Robinson, the wife of Jackie, in 1973, 
a couple of months after his death. The foundation provides four-year college 
scholarships in conjunction with a comprehensive set of skills and opportunities 
to disadvantaged students of color to ensure their success in college and 
to develop their leadership potential. Its hands-on, four-year program 
includes peer and professional mentoring, internship placement, extensive 
leadership training, international travel and community service options, 
the conveyance of practical life skills, and a myriad networking opportunities. 
The Foundation's strategic combination of financial assistance and support 
services results consistently in a nearly 100% college graduation rate. 
Since its founding, over 1,450 scholars have received scholarships. Support 
for the foundation comes from various sponsors. Among its supporters are 
Major League Baseball, the Los Angeles Dodgers, General Electric, Goldman 
Sachs, and Nike, Inc. The Jackie Robinson Foundation is planning to establish 
the Jackie Robinson Museum in lower Manhattan.[1][2] In addition to being 
a permanent tribute to Jackie Robinson's pioneering legacy and role as 
a catalyst for the Civil Rights Movement, the museum will serve as a venue 
for dialogue on critical social issues and as a destination for innovative 
educational programming. The Museum will commemorate the life and legacy 
of Jackie Robinson through an exploration of his commitment to service 
and to the achievement of "first class citizenship" for all Americans. 
It is envisioned as a prominent stop on existing cultural routes in New 
York City and environs, and as a venue for lectures, concerts and receptions. 
The foundation presents the ROBIE award, a tribute to an individual who 
has promoted and expanded opportunities for minorities in the corporate 
world. The 2016 awardees were Pittsburgh Steelers Chairman Dan Rooney, 
founder of Bobbi Brown Cosmetics Bobbi Brown and chairman and CEO of Vista 
Equity Partners, Robert F. Smith (investor). [3] Previous honorees have 
included Mariano Rivera, Bruce Ratner, Thomas Tull, Henry Louis Gates, 
Tyler Perry, Paul Tagliabue, Sean Combs, Rita Moreno, Robert Redford, George 
Lucas, Robin Roberts, John D. Finnegan, Joe J. Plumeri, Hillary Clinton, 
John Thain, Michael Jordan, Ella Fitzgerald, Arthur Ashe, Pete Rozelle, 
