The Jackson, MS Metropolitan Statistical Area is a metropolitan area in 
the central region of the U.S. state of Mississippi that covers five counties: 
Copiah, Hinds, Madison, Rankin, and Simpson. As of the 2010 census, the 
MSA had a population of 539,057. According to 2012 estimates, the metro 
area's population has increased to 576,800.[1] As of the census[3] of 2000, 
there were 497,197 people, 180,556 households, and 127,704 families residing 
within the MSA. The racial makeup of the MSA was 53.02% White, 45.29% African 
American, 0.13% Native American, 0.67% Asian, 0.02% Pacific Islander, 0.29% 
from other races, and 0.60% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino 
of any race were 0.98% of the population. The area that is now Jackson 
was initially referred to as Parker'ville.[4] A trading post was set up 
there by Louis LeFleur, a French Canadian trader, on the historic Natchez 
Trace trade route. This was before the Choctaw ceded land under the Treaty 
of Doak's Stand in 1820, and the US formally opened the area for settlement 
by non-Native American settlers. The city was founded to establish a centrally 
located capital for the new state of Mississippi. In 1821, the Mississippi 
General Assembly, meeting in the then-capital of Natchez, had sent Thomas 
Hinds, James Patton, and William Lattimore to look for a site. After surveying 
areas north and east of Jackson, they proceeded southwest along the Pearl 
River until they reached LeFleur's Bluff in Hinds County. Their report 
to the General Assembly stated that this location had beautiful and healthful 
surroundings, good water, abundant timber, navigable waters, and proximity 
to the trading route Natchez Trace. And so, a legislative Act passed by 
the Assembly on November 28, 1821, authorized the location to become the 
permanent seat of the government of the state of Mississippi. Jackson is 
named after the seventh President of the United States, Andrew Jackson 
(pictured to the right), in recognition for his victory in the Battle of 
New Orleans. Jackson was originally planned, in April 1822, by Peter Van 
Dorn in a "checkerboard" pattern advocated by Thomas Jefferson, in which 
city blocks alternated with parks and other open spaces, giving the appearance 
of a checkerboard. This plan has not lasted to the present day. The state 
legislature first met in Jackson on December 23, 1822. In 1839, Jackson 
was the site of the passage of the first state law that permitted married 
women to own and administer their own property. Jackson was first linked 
with other cities by rail in 1840. An 1844 map shows Jackson linked by 
an east-west rail line running between Vicksburg, Raymond, and Brandon. 
Unlike Vicksburg, Greenville, and Natchez, Jackson is not located on the 
Mississippi River, and did not develop like those cities from river commerce. 
Instead, railroads would later spark growth of the city in the decades 
after the American Civil War. Despite its small population, during the 
Civil War, Jackson became a strategic center of manufacturing for the Confederate 
States of America. In 1863, during the campaign which ended in the capture 
of Vicksburg, Union forces captured Jackson during two battles—once before 
the fall of Vicksburg and once after the fall of Vicksburg. On May 13, 
1863, Union forces won the first Battle of Jackson, forcing Confederate 
forces to flee northward towards Canton. Subsequently, on May 15, 1863, 
Union troops under the command of William Tecumseh Sherman burned and looted 
key facilities in city of Jackson, a strategic manufacturing and railroad 
center for the Confederacy. After driving the Confederate forces out of 
Jackson, Union forces turned west once again and engaged the Vicksburg 
defenders at the Battle of Champion Hill in nearby Edwards. The siege of 
Vicksburg began soon after the Union victory at Champion Hill. Confederate 
forces began to reassemble in Jackson in preparation for an attempt to 
break through the Union lines surrounding Vicksburg and end the siege there. 
The Confederate forces in Jackson built defensive fortifications encircling 
the city while preparing to march west to Vicksburg. Confederate forces 
marched out of Jackson to break the siege of Vicksburg in early July 1863. 
However, unknown to them, Vicksburg had already surrendered on July 4, 
1863. General Ulysses S. Grant dispatched General Sherman to meet the Confederate 
forces heading west from Jackson. Upon learning that Vicksburg had already 
surrendered, the Confederates retreated back into Jackson, thus beginning 
the Siege of Jackson, which lasted for approximately one week. Union forces 
encircled the city and began an artillery bombardment. One Union artillery 
emplacements is still intact on the grounds of the University of Mississippi 
Medical Center in Jackson. Another Federal position is still intact on 
the campus of Millsaps College. One of the Confederate Generals defending 
Jackson was former United States Vice President John C. Breckenridge. On 
July 16, 1863, Confederate forces slipped out of Jackson during the night 
and retreated across the Pearl River. Union forces completely burned the 
city after its capture this second time, and the city earned the nickname 
"Chimneyville" because only the chimneys of houses were left standing. 
The northern line of Confederate defenses in Jackson during the siege was 
located along a road near downtown Jackson, now known as Fortification 
Street. Today there are few antebellum structures left standing in Jackson. 
One surviving structure is the Governor's Mansion, built in 1842, which 
served as Sherman's headquarters. Another is the Old Capitol building, 
which served as the home of the Mississippi state legislature from 1839 
to 1903. There the Mississippi legislature passed the ordinance of secession 
from the Union on January 9, 1861, becoming the second state to secede 
from the United States. The constitutional convention of 1890, which produced 
Mississippi's Constitution of 1890, was also held there. The so-called 
New Capitol replaced the older structure upon its completion in 1903, and 
today the Old Capitol is a historical museum. A third important surviving 
antebellum structure is the Jackson City Hall, built in 1846 for less than 
$8,000. It is said that Sherman, a Mason, spared it because it housed a 
Masonic Lodge, though a more likely reason is that it housed an army hospital. 
Pulitzer Prize-winning author Eudora Welty was born in Jackson in 1909, 
died there in 2001, and lived most of her life in the Belhaven section 
of the city. She wrote a memoir of her development as a writer, One Writer's 
Beginnings (1984), which gives a charming picture of the city in the early 
20th century. Today, the main Jackson public library is named in her honor. 
Highly acclaimed African-American author Richard Wright, a native of Roxie, 
Mississippi, lived in Jackson as an adolescent and young man in the 1910s 
and 1920s, and relates his experience in his memoir Black Boy (1945). He 
describes the harsh and largely terror-filled life most African-Americans 
experienced in the South and the rest of the United States under segregation 
in the early twentieth century. Jackson's economic growth was stimulated 
in the 1930s by the discovery of natural gas fields nearby. During World 
War II, Hawkins Field in northwest Jackson became a major airbase. Among 
other facilities and units, the Royal Netherlands Military Flying School 
was established there, after Nazi Germany occupied the Netherlands. From 
1941, the base trained all Dutch military aircrews. Since 1960, Jackson 
has undergone a series of dramatic changes and growth. On May 24, 1961, 
during the American Civil Rights Movement, a large group of Freedom Riders 
was arrested in Jackson for "disturbing the peace" after they disembarked 
from their bus. Although the Freedom Riders had planned to make New Orleans 
their final destination, Jackson was the farthest that any of them actually 
managed to travel. In Jackson, shortly after midnight on June 12, 1963, 
Medgar Evers, civil rights activist and leader of the Mississippi chapter 
of the NAACP, was murdered by Byron De La Beckwith, a white supremacist. 
In 1994, prosecutors Ed Peters and Bobby DeLaughter finally got De La Beckwith 
convicted of murder by a jury. A portion of U.S. Highway 49, all of Delta 
Drive and Jackson-Evers International Airport now bear Medgar Evers's name. 
The first successful cadaveric lung transplant was performed at the University 
of Mississippi Medical Center in Jackson in June 1963 by Dr. James Hardy. 
Hardy transplanted the cadaveric lung into a patient suffering from lung 
cancer. The patient survived for eighteen days before dying of kidney failure. 
In June 1966, Jackson was also the terminus of the James Meredith March, 
organized by James Meredith, the first African-American to enroll at the 
University of Mississippi. The march, which began in Memphis, Tennessee, 
was an attempt to garner support for the Civil Rights movement and was 
accompanied by a drive to register African-Americans to vote in Mississippi. 
In this latter aim, it succeeded in registering between 2,500 and 3,000 
black Mississippians to vote. The march ended on June 26 after Meredith, 
who had been wounded by a sniper's bullet earlier on the march, addressed 
a large rally of some 15,000 people in Jackson. Since 1968, Jackson has 
been the home of Malaco Records, one of the leading record companies for 
gospel and soul music in the United States. In January 1973, Paul Simon 
recorded the song "Learn How To Fall", found on the album There Goes Rhymin' 
Simon, in Jackson at the Malaco Recording Studios. Two students at Jackson 
State University (then called Jackson State College) were killed while 
protesting the Vietnam War on May 15, 1970. These murders were part of 
the evidence cited by Newsweek in its issue of 18 May when it suggested 
that U.S. President Richard Nixon faced a new home front. In 1997, Harvey 
Johnson, Jr. became the city's first African American mayor. During his 
term, he proposed the creation of a convention center, in hopes of attracting 
business to the city. This measure was passed during Johnson's tenure, 
but construction did not begin until recently. The convention center has 
an anticipated completion date of early 2009. Mayor Johnson was replaced 
by Frank Melton on July 4, 2005. Melton has subsequently generated controversy 
through his unconventional behavior, which has included acting as a law 
enforcement officer. A dramatic spike in crime has also ensued, despite 
Melton's promises to rid the city of its crime problem.[5] The Jackson 
metropolitan area possesses a humid subtropical climate, with very hot, 
humid summers and mild winters. Rain is very evenly spread throughout the 
year, and snow can fall in wintertime, although heavy snowfall is relatively 
rare. Much of the areas rainfall occurs during thunderstorms. Thunder is 
heard on roughly 70 days per annum. The Jackson metropolitan area lies 
in a region prone to severe thunderstorms which can produce large hail, 
damaging winds and tornadoes. Jackson is home to several major industries. 
These include electrical equipment and machinery, processed food, and primary 
and fabricated metal products. The surrounding area supports agricultural 
development of livestock, soybeans, cotton, and poultry. The following 
companies are headquartered in Jackson: Jackson is a city famous for its 
music – including gospel, blues and R&B. Jackson is also home to the world 
famous Malaco Records recording studio. Many notable musicians hail from 
Jackson. Jackson is home to the USA International Ballet Competition. Founded 
in 1978 by Thalia Mara, the first USA International Ballet Competition 
took place in 1979 and joined the ranks of Varna, Bulgaria (1964); Moscow, 
Russia (1969); and Tokyo, Japan (1976). The International Ballet Competition 
(IBC) originated in Varna, Bulgaria in 1964. The competition eventually 
expanded to rotating annual events in Varna, Moscow and Tokyo. In 1979 
the event first came to the United States in Jackson, Mississippi, where 
it now returns every four years. The rotation is currently among Jackson, 
Varna, Helsinki, Finland and Shanghai, China. These first competitions 
were given sanction by the International Dance Committee of UNESCO's International 
Theater Institute. Today, international ballet competitions flourish worldwide, 
and the USA IBC in Jackson remains one of the oldest and most respected 
competitions in the world. In 1982, the United States Congress passed a 
Joint Resolution designating Jackson as the official home of the USA International 
Ballet Competition. Jackson held subsequent competitions in 1982, 1986, 
1990, 1994, 1998, 2002, 2006 and 2010. The next competition is in 2014. 
The competitions are held at Thalía Mara Hall.[6] Currently, Jackson is 
experiencing $1.6 billion in downtown development. Among the projects include 
improvements to or construction of the following: Fondren is a historical 
neighborhood located just North of downtown Jackson. The district has the 
ambiance of art-deco style architecture and many fine restaurants and eclectic 
shops. Jackson is served by Jackson-Evers International Airport, located 
at Allen C. Thompson Field, east of the city in Flowood in Rankin County. 
Its IATA code is JAN. The airport has non-stop service to 12 cities throughout 
the United States and is served by 6 mainline carriers (American, Delta, 
United, Southwest, and US Airways) On 22 December 2004, Jackson City Council 
members voted 6-0 to rename Jackson International Airport in honor of slain 
civil rights leader and field secretary for the Mississippi chapter of 
the NAACP, Medgar Evers. This decision took effect on 22 January 2005. 
Formerly Jackson was served by Hawkins Field Airport, located in northwest 
Jackson, with IATA code HKS, which is now used for private air traffic 
only. Underway is the Airport Parkway project. The environmental impact 
study is complete and final plans are drawn and awaiting Mississippi Department 
of Transportation approval. Right-of-way acquisition is underway at an 
estimated cost of $19 million. The Airport Parkway will connect High Street 
in downtown Jackson to Mississippi Highway 475 in Flowood at Jackson-Evers 
International Airport. The Airport Parkway Commission consists of the Mayor 
of Pearl, the Mayor of Flowood and the Mayor of Jackson, as the Airport 
Parkway will run through and have access from each of these three cities. 
Interstate 55 Runs north-south from Chicago through Jackson towards Brookhaven, 
McComb, and the Louisiana state line to New Orleans. Jackson is roughly 
halfway between New Orleans and Memphis, Tennessee. The highway maintains 
eight to ten lanes in northern part of city, six lanes in the center and 
four lanes south of I-20. Interstate 20 Runs east-west from near El Paso, 
Texas, to Florence, South Carolina. Jackson is roughly halfway between 
Dallas, and Atlanta. The highway is six lanes from Interstate 220 to MS 
468 in Pearl. Interstate 220 Connects Interstates 55 and 20 on the north 
and west sides of the city and is four lanes throughout its route. U.S. 
Highway 49 Runs north-south from the Arkansas state line at Lula via Clarksdale 
and Yazoo City, towards Hattiesburg and Gulfport. It bypasses the city 
via I-20 and I-220 U.S. Highway 51 Known in Jackson as State Street, roughly 
parallels Interstate 55 from the I-20/I-55 western split to downtown. It 
multiplexes with I-55 from Pearl/Pascagoula St northward to County Line 
Road, where the two highways split. U.S. Highway 80 Roughly parallels Interstate 
20. Mississippi Highway 18 Runs southwest towards Raymond, Utica, and Port 
Gibson; southeast towards Bay Springs and Quitman. Mississippi Highway 
25 Some parts of this road are known as Lakeland Drive, which runs northeast 
towards Carthage and Starkville. In addition, Jackson is served by the 
Natchez Trace Parkway, which runs from Natchez to Nashville, Tennessee. 
JATRAN (Jackson Transit System) operates hourly or half-hourly during daytime 
hours on weekdays, and mostly hourly on Saturdays. No evening or Sunday 
service is operated. Jackson is served by the Canadian National Railway 
(formerly the Illinois Central Railroad). The Kansas City Southern Railway 
also serves the city. The Canadian National has a medium-sized yard downtown 
which Mill Street parallels and the Kansas City Southern has a large classification 
yard in Richland. Amtrak, the national passenger rail system, provides 
service to Jackson. The Amtrak station is located at 300 West Capitol Street. 
Amtrak's southbound City of New Orleans provides service from Jackson to 
New Orleans and some points between. The northbound City of New Orleans 
provides service from Jackson to Memphis, Carbondale, Champaign-Urbana, 
Chicago and some points between. Efforts to establish service with another 
Amtrak train, the Crescent Star, an extension of the Crescent westward 
