John Francis "Jack" Buck (August 21, 1924 – June 18, 2002) was an American 
sportscaster, best known for his work announcing Major League Baseball 
games of the St. Louis Cardinals. His play-by-play work earned him recognition 
from numerous Halls of Fame, such as the National Baseball Hall of Fame, 
the Pro Football Hall of Fame, and the National Radio Hall of Fame. He 
has also been inducted as a member of the St. Louis Cardinals Hall of Fame 
Museum. Buck was born in Holyoke, Massachusetts but moved to the Cleveland, 
Ohio area with his family in 1939. After graduating from high school, he 
worked on large shipping boats that traveled the Great Lakes. Buck was 
drafted into the United States Army in June 1943 and later was awarded 
a Purple Heart as part of his service. After completion of his military 
service in 1946, Buck enrolled at (and graduated from) Ohio State University. 
His early sportscasting career included work for the minor league affiliates 
of the St. Louis Cardinals. In 1954, Buck was promoted to radio play-by-play 
of Cardinal games on KMOX, a position that he maintained for nearly all 
of the next 47 years. He was known in St. Louis for his trademark phrase 
"That's a winner!", which was said after every game that the Cardinals 
had won. In addition to his work with the Cardinals, Buck also earned assignments 
on many national sportscasts, including radio coverage of 18 Super Bowls 
and 11 World Series. Some of his famous play-by-play calls include the 
dramatic walk-off home runs hit by Ozzie Smith in Game 5 of the 1985 National 
League Championship Series, by Kirk Gibson in Game 1 of the 1988 World 
Series, and by Kirby Puckett in Game 6 of the 1991 World Series. In the 
final years of his life, Buck also became recognized for writing poetry, 
culminating in national attention for his poem "For America", written after 
the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. The later part of his career 
found him working side-by-side in the Cardinals booth with his son Joe 
Buck, who also has risen to national sportscasting prominence. Buck was 
born in Holyoke, Massachusetts as the 3rd of 7 children by Earle and Kathleen 
Buck.[1] His father was a railroad accountant who commuted weekly to New 
Jersey. From an early age, Buck dreamed of becoming a sports announcer 
with his early exposure to sports broadcasting coming from listening to 
Boston Red Sox baseball games announced by Fred Hoey.[2] Part of his childhood 
coincided with the Great Depression, and Buck remembered his family sometimes 
using a metal slug to keep a coin-operated gas meter going during the winter 
to provide heat for their home.[3] In 1939 his family moved to Cleveland, 
Ohio to join their father, who had a job with the Erie Railroad.[4] Soon 
after though, Buck's father died at the age of 49 due to uremic poisoning 
related to high blood pressure.[4] Buck planned to quit high school in 
1941 to take a full-time job in an effort to support his family. Dissuaded 
by one of his teachers, Buck decided to finish high school, graduating 
from Lakewood High School in the winter of 1942.[5] After graduation, he 
followed one of his friends and began working on an iron ore freight boat 
operated on the Great Lakes by the Cleveland Cliffs Iron Company.[6] Buck 
served on a 700 foot (8,400 in) steamer named "The Sheadle", where he began 
as porter and was later promoted to night cook and baker.[7] After performing 
various other shipping related jobs, Buck attempted to become a "deck watch". 
A physical examination related to the deck watch application process revealed 
Buck was color blind, unable to differentiate between the colors green 
and brown.[8] Ineligible for the promotion to deck watch, Buck subsequently 
became eligible for the military draft, and was drafted into the United 
States Army in June 1943.[7] The physicality of Buck's work on the Great 
Lakes left in him good physical condition at the time he entered the Army.[9] 
Buck, who was 19 years old, stood 5' 11" tall, and weighed 165 pounds at 
the time.[9] His first assignment was anti-aircraft training, and was sent 
to Fort Eustis, Virginia to undergo his 13-week basic training regimen.[9] 
After completing his basic training in 1943, Buck was designated as an 
instructor, and assigned the rank of corporal.[9] In addition to his instructor 
duties, Buck participated in boxing as a form of recreation.[10] In February 
1945 Buck shipped out to the European theater of the war, where he was 
assigned to K Company, 47th Infantry Regiment, 9th Infantry Division.[11] 
During the night of March 7, 1945, Buck and his compatriots crossed the 
Ludendorff Bridge at the town of Remagen, Germany.[12] United States forces' 
successful capture of this bridge led to the Battle of Remagen, a battle 
lasting from March 7–25. On the morning of March 15, 1945, Buck was the 
squad leader of a patrol that came under German fire in the Remagen zone.[13] 
Wounded in his left forearm and leg by shrapnel, Buck received medical 
treatment on the battlefield from the only medic K company had at that 
time, Frank Borghi.[14] Buck received further medical treatment at the 
177th General Army Hospital in Le Mans, France where he was awarded the 
Purple Heart.[15] Buck recovered, and rejoined his outfit sometime after 
German forces had surrendered.[16] Declining to re-enlist, and turning 
down requests to enroll in the Officiers Training School, Buck joined his 
compatriots in guard duty of German prisoners of war.[17] Buck received 
orders to ship home in April 1946, effectively ending his military service.[18] 
After returning to the United States, Buck proceeded to work in various 
industrial-related jobs.[19] When his friend Bill Theil told Buck he needed 
a roommate to attend Ohio State University with, Buck decided on the spot 
to join Theil and enroll at Ohio State. The suddenness of Buck's decision 
meant he had no corresponding paperwork that could be used to formally 
enroll at the University, so Buck attended classes of his own choosing 
until he was able to formally enroll.[20] Buck majored in radio speech 
and minored in Spanish. He also worked several jobs while attending college, 
including one position at an all-night gas station. Buck crafted his play-by-play 
skills broadcasting Ohio State basketball games. After college, he called 
games for the Columbus Red Birds, a Triple-A (American Association) affiliate 
of the St. Louis Cardinals, in 1950–51. He spent the 1953 season as voice 
of another AAA Cardinals affiliate, the International League Rochester 
Red Wings on WHEC (AM). His work there earned him an invitation to join 
the big-league Cardinals' broadcast team in St. Louis the following season. 
Buck started broadcasting Cardinals games for KMOX radio in 1954, teaming 
with Harry Caray, Milo Hamilton (1954), and Joe Garagiola (from 1955). 
Buck was dropped from the Cardinals booth in 1959 to make room for Buddy 
Blattner; the following year, he called Saturday Game of the Week telecasts 
for ABC. Buck was re-hired by the Cardinals in 1961 after Blattner departed; 
Garagiola left the following year, leaving Caray and Buck as the team's 
broadcast voices through 1969. After Caray was fired by the Cardinals following 
the 1969 season, Buck ascended to the team's lead play-by-play role. (1969 
was also the year that Jack Buck divorced his first wife Alyce Larson – 
whom he had married in 1948 and had six children with – and married his 
second wife, Carole Lintzenich, who gave birth to their son Joe Buck in 
the same year). "Smith corks one into right, down the line! It may go!! 
... Go crazy, folks! Go crazy! It's a home run, and the Cardinals have 
won the game, by the score of 3 to 2, on a home run by the Wizard! Go crazy!" 
Buck teamed with ex-Yankees and Pirates announcer Jim Woods in 1970–71. 
In 1972, retired Cardinals third baseman Mike Shannon joined Buck in the 
broadcast booth, beginning a 28-year partnership. On Cardinals broadcasts, 
Buck routinely punctuated St. Louis victories with the expression, "That's 
a winner!" In addition to Joe, Buck has three daughters who worked in broadcasting 
– Julie Buck on KYKY 98.1 in St. Louis (she now works at KLOU-FM 103.3, 
also in St. Louis), Bonnie Buck, who currently works in television in Los 
Angeles, and Christine Buck, who started her career at KPLR-TV in St. Louis. 
In addition, Buck's late younger brother, Bob Buck was a sportscaster and 
sports director at KMOX/KMOV-TV in St. Louis. Buck was well respected in 
the St. Louis community, where he lived and regularly volunteered time 
to host charity events. In addition to his sportscasting work, Buck served 
as the original host of the KMOX interview/call-in program At Your Service 
beginning in 1960. His guests on the program included Eleanor Roosevelt.[22] 
Buck is featured in many of the stories in the book Carl Erskine's Tales 
from the Dodgers Dugout: Extra Innings (2004), a compendium of short stories 
by former Dodger pitcher Carl Erskine. Buck can be heard calling a (fictional) 
1964 Cardinals broadcast in the 1988 film Mississippi Burning,[23] and 
makes a cameo appearance in a 1998 episode of the television series Arliss. 
He also lent his voice to the 1995 edition of the RBI Baseball video game. 
Jack Buck was also a renowned football broadcaster. In 1964, he began calling 
National Football League games for CBS television, following a four-year 
stint doing telecasts of the rival American Football League for ABC. Buck 
called Chicago Bears games in his first two CBS seasons, then switched 
to Dallas Cowboys games, including the famous "Ice Bowl" championship game 
in 1967. After the network moved away from dedicated team announcers, Buck 
continued to call regional NFL action through 1974, as well as several 
NFC Championship Games and Super Bowl IV. He also called the 1965 Cotton 
Bowl Classic for CBS television and several later Cotton Bowl games for 
CBS Radio. In 1975, Buck temporarily left his Cardinals baseball duties 
in order to host the NBC pregame show, GrandStand, alongside Bryant Gumbel. 
In the 1976 and 1977 seasons, he called regional NFL play-by-play for NBC. 
On August 16, 1976, Buck called the first-ever NFL game played outside 
of the United States, a preseason exhibition between the St. Louis Cardinals 
and San Diego Chargers held at Korakuen Stadium in Tokyo, Japan. (Buck 
also worked NBC's backup Game of the Week during the 1976 baseball season 
before returning to the Cardinals full-time in 1977.) Buck served as the 
CBS Radio voice of Monday Night Football (teaming with Hank Stram) for 
nearly two decades (1978–1984 and again from 1987–1995 after CBS regained 
the radio rights from NBC). Ironically, in 1970 ABC's Roone Arledge had 
asked via telephone about Buck's interests in becoming the first television 
play-by-play announcer for Monday Night Football, but because of personal 
animosity surrounding his previous stint with the network, Buck would not 
return their phone call. (The television play-by-play role would go to 
Keith Jackson instead.) In addition to MNF, Buck called numerous playoff 
games for CBS Radio, including 17 Super Bowls (the most of any announcer). 
Buck also served as a local radio broadcaster for the football Cardinals 
in 1980 and 1981, and returned to calling Sunday NFL games for CBS television 
from 1982 to 1987. Late in the 1990 NFL season, Buck's onetime CBS broadcasting 
partner, Pat Summerall, was hospitalized with a bleeding ulcer after vomiting 
on a plane during a flight after a game, and was out for a considerable 
amount of time. While Verne Lundquist replaced Summerall on games with 
lead analyst John Madden, Buck (who was at the time the network's lead 
Major League Baseball announcer) filled in for Lundquist, teaming with 
Dan Fouts to call two games (both of which coincidentally featured the 
Cardinals, who had moved from St. Louis to Arizona by that time). While 
much better known for his baseball and football commentary, Jack Buck was 
also the original voice of the St. Louis Blues of the National Hockey League. 
Buck was paired with Jay Randolph and Gus Kyle on Blues broadcasts and 
covered the 1968 Stanley Cup Final for KMOX radio. He was succeeded after 
one season by broadcaster Dan Kelly. Buck also broadcast for the St. Louis 
Hawks and Rochester Royals of the National Basketball Association, and 
called professional wrestling, boxing, and bowling at various times in 
his career. As previously mentioned, in 1960, Buck along with Carl Erskine 
broadcast a series of late-afternoon Saturday games on ABC.[24][25] were 
the lead announcing crew for this series, which lasted one season.[26] 
Despite temporarily losing the Game of the Week package in 1961, ABC still 
televised several games in prime time (with Buck returning to call the 
action). This occurred as Roger Maris[27][28] was poised to tie and subsequently 
break Babe Ruth's regular season home run record of 60. From 1983–1989, 
Buck teamed with the likes of Sparky Anderson, Bill White, and Johnny Bench 
for World Series radio broadcasts on CBS. Buck, along with CBS Radio colleagues 
Johnny Bench and John Rooney, was on hand at San Francisco's Candlestick 
Park on October 17, 1989, when the Loma Prieta earthquake hit. After the 
6.9 magnitude quake rocked the Bay Area, Buck told the listening audience: 
He is most famous for his coast-to-coast radio call of Kirk Gibson's game-winning 
home run in the bottom of the 9th inning of Game 1 of the 1988 World Series 
and his disbelief at Gibson knocking it out while hobbled by injuries to 
his right hamstring and left knee. His call of the play is so famous that 
it's sometimes played over the television footage of the play. The television 
call was handled by long-time Dodgers announcer Vin Scully on NBC. This 
was Buck's call. It begins here with Buck speculating on what might happen 
if Gibson manages to reach base: ... then you would run for Gibson and 
have Sax batting. But, we have a big 3–2 pitch coming here from Eckersley. 
Gibson swings, and a fly ball to deep right field! This is gonna be a home 
run! Unbelievable! A home run for Gibson! And the Dodgers have won the 
game, five to four; I don't believe what I just saw! The last sentence 
is often remembered and quoted by fans. Buck followed it with, I don't 
believe what I just saw! Is this really happening, Bill? Buck concluded 
his comments on Gibson's amazing feat with this thought: One of the most 
remarkable finishes to any World Series Game...a one-handed home run by 
Kirk Gibson! And the Dodgers have won it...five to four; and I'm stunned, 
Bill. I have seen a lot of dramatic finishes in a lot of sports, but this 
one might top almost every other one. Buck wasn't intended to be the main 
play-by-play announcer for CBS baseball telecasts when the network acquired 
the sport from NBC and ABC. Originally assigned to the network's #2 crew 
(and therefore, work with Jim Kaat), he was promoted at practically the 
last minute after Brent Musburger was fired on April Fools Day of 1990. 
After two years of calling baseball telecasts (including the Saturday afternoon 
Game of the Week, All-Star Game, National League Championship Series, and 
World Series), Buck was dismissed by CBS. The official reasoning behind 
Buck's ouster was that he simply had poor chemistry with lead analyst Tim 
McCarver.[29][30][31] Buck was soon replaced by Boston Red Sox announcer 
Sean McDonough. Buck later noted that "CBS never got that baseball play-by-play 
draws word-pictures. All they knew was that football stars analysts. So 
they said, 'Let McCarver run the show ... In television, all they want 
you to do is shut up. I'm not very good at shutting up." Buck was criticized 
by some for his alleged habit of predicting plays on air.[32] Buck made 
controversial statements about singer Bobby Vinton prior to Game 4 of the 
1990 National League Championship Series. After Vinton muffed the lyrics 
of "The Star-Spangled Banner" in his home town of Pittsburgh, Buck lightly 
referenced Vinton's Polish heritage.[33] Buck soon got death threats from 
Pittsburgh Pirate fans, who even went as far as leaving a footprint on 
Buck's hotel pillow. The next day, CBS Sports executive producer Ted Shaker 
spotted Buck in the hotel lobby and told Buck that he was in trouble. The 
final baseball play that Jack Buck narrated for CBS television was Gene 
Larkin's game winning bloop single in Game 7 of the 1991 World Series. 
Over the course of the 1990s, Buck decided to reduce his schedule to calling 
only Cardinals home games (or 81 games a year unless there was a special 
occurrence). Health concerns obviously could have played a factor in this, 
as Buck suffered from such ailments as Parkinson's disease, diabetes, a 
pacemaker, cataracts, sciatica, and vertigo. Buck once joked, "I wish I'd 
get Alzheimer's, then I could forget I've got all the other stuff." In 
1998, the Cardinals dedicated a bust of Buck that showed him smiling with 
a hand cupping his left ear. In 1999, he lent his name to a restaurant 
venture called J. Buck's, with the restaurant's name being shared with 
son Joe and daughter Julie.[34] One of Jack Buck's final public appearances 
was on September 17, 2001 at Busch Memorial Stadium in St. Louis. It was 
the first night that Major League Baseball resumed after the terrorist 
attacks of September 11. Although looking rather frail (Buck at the time 
was sick with lung cancer) and struggling to maintain his composure (Buck 
was obviously showing the signs of Parkinson's disease as well), Buck stirred 
emotions[35] by reading a patriotic-themed poem during the pregame ceremonies. 
He concluded by silencing critics who thought baseball had come back too 
soon: "I don't know about you, but as for me, the question has already 
been answered: Should we be here? Yes!" Buck wrote a poem named For America 
that he read at the first Cardinals game after the 9/11 attacks to describe 
his opinion and the general opinion, regarding defeating terrorism, of 
Americans after September 11. Jack Buck died on June 18, 2002 in St. Louis's 
Barnes-Jewish Hospital from a combination of illnesses. He had stayed in 
the hospital for all but the first two days of January 2002. He was in 
the hospital to undergo treatment for lung cancer, Parkinson's disease, 
and to correct an intestinal blockage. His death shook the St. Louis community: 
within two hours of his death, fans were leaving flowers at the base of 
his bust outside Busch Stadium even though it was the middle of the night. 
The flags at St. Louis City Hall and the St. Louis County Government Center 
were lowered to half-staff, the local television news anchors all wore 
black suits for the next several days, and a public visitation was held 
in the stadium before the next baseball game after his death, with free 
admission to the game for all the mourners who filed past his coffin. Buck 
was interred at Jefferson Barracks National Cemetery in south St. Louis 
County. His spot on the KMOX Cardinals broadcasts was subsequently filled 
by former Colorado Rockies announcer Wayne Hagin. Hagin, who went on to 
the New York Mets after his stint in St. Louis, moved over to television, 
and his spot was filled by one of Buck's protégés, former Chicago White 
Sox announcer John Rooney. Buck's youngest son, Joe, read the eulogy at 
his father's church funeral. Jack Buck had eight children in all; five 
daughters and three sons. Joe Buck is currently the lead play-by-play announcer 
for both Major League Baseball and the NFL on the Fox network. Joe Buck 
has also done occasional local telecasts for the Cardinals as well as commercials 
for a local automobile dealership. Jack and Joe Buck are also the only 
father and son to call play-by-play of Super Bowl telecasts. During postseason 
telecasts, Joe has often paid homage to his father by signing off with 
"We'll see you tomorrow night!" When the Cardinals won the 2006 World Series, 
Joe quoted his father again saying, "For the first time since 1982, St. 
Louis has a World Series winner!", referencing Jack's line when the Cards 
won in 1982, "And that's a winner! That's a winner! A World Series winner 
for the Cardinals!". During the 2011 Series, Joe punctuated David Freese's 
11th inning walk-off homer for the Cardinals in Game 6 with "We will see 
you...tomorrow night!", near similar to the 1991 Puckett home run description, 
a call he said he did to celebrate Jack, but would never repeat again in 
the same situation.[36] When the Cardinals won Game 7, he did not quote 
his father.[37] Buck received the Ford C. Frick Award for broadcasting 
from the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 1987, and the Pete Rozelle Radio-Television 
Award from the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1996. The Missouri Sports Hall 
of Fame inducted Buck twice, as a media personality (1980) and Missouri 
sports legend (2000). The National Sportscasters and Sportswriters Association 
named Buck as Missouri Sportscaster of the Year 22 times, and inducted 
him into its Hall of Fame in 1990. Buck was also inducted into the American 
Sportscasters Association Hall of Fame in 1990, the Missouri Athletic Club 
Hall of Fame in 1993, the National Radio Hall of Fame in 1995, and the 
NAB Broadcasting Hall of Fame in 2005. The American Sportscasters Association 
ranked Buck 11th in its listing of the Top 50 Sportscasters of All Time 
in 2009.[38] Buck is honored with a star on the St. Louis Walk of Fame,.[39] 
A bronze statue of him was erected at the entrance to Busch Memorial Stadium 
in 1998 (and moved to a new location outside the current Busch Stadium 
in 2007). A section of I-64/US-40 in St. Louis is named the Jack Buck Memorial 
Highway in his honor. In January, 2014, the Cardinals announced Buck among 
22 former players and personnel to be inducted into the St. Louis Cardinals 
Hall of Fame Museum for the inaugural class of 2014.[40] The Jack Buck 
Award, presented by the Missouri Athletic Club "in recognition of the enthusiastic 
and dedicated support of sports in St. Louis", is named in his honor. Third 
and goal, quarterback sneak, touchdown, Green Bay! He takes off his cap. 
He mops his brow. He looks in and gets the sign. He starts the windup. 
Here's the pitch and it's ... A STRIKE CALLED! A NO-HITTER FOR GIBSON! 
Simmons roars to the mound, embraces Gibson who is engulfed by his teammates 
as the Cardinals win the game, 11–0! Brock takes the lead, Ruthven checks 
him. He is ... GOING! The pitch is a strike, the throw ... he is there! 
HE DID IT! 105 for Lou Brock! He's going! The pitch is high, the throw 
is ... safe! He stole it! The throw got by the shortstop and Brock has 
done it! They would've thrown him out, but the shortstop couldn't handle 
the bad throw and this is it, folks. Brock has now stolen 893! Breaking 
ball, hit off the pitcher, TO THE THIRD BASEMAN!!! No play! Base hit! Three 
thousand for Lou Brock! Montana lines up at the five. And on third-down-and-three 
he rolls right, looking to throw ... looking to throw...and he throws into 
the end zone, touchdown! Touchdown! Touchdown, San Francisco, by Dwight 
Clark! Sutter from the belt, to the plate...a swing and a miss! And that's 
a winner! That's a winner! A World Series winner for the Cardinals! Smith 
corks one into right, down the line! It may go!! ... Go crazy, folks! Go 
crazy! It's a home run, and the Cardinals have won the game, by the score 
of 3 to 2, on a home run by the Wizard! Go crazy! The Dodger right-hander 
is set and here's his pitch to Jack Clark. Swing and a long one into left 
field! Adios, goodbye, and maybe that's a winner! A three-run homer by 
Clark and the Cardinals lead by the score of 7 to 5 and they may go to 
the World Series on THAT one, folks! Orta, leading off, swings and hits 
it to the right side, and the pitcher has to cover he is ... SAFE! SAFE! 
SAFE! And we'll have an argument! Sparky, I think he was out! Here's the 
pitch to Mookie Wilson. Winning run at second. Ground ball to first, it 
is a run...an error! An error by Buckner! The winning run scores! The Mets 
win it 6 to 5 with three in the 10th! The ball went right through the legs 
of Buckner and the Mets with 2 men out and nobody on have scored three 
times to bring about a seventh game, which will be played here tomorrow 
night. Folks, it was unbelievable. An error, right through the legs of 
Buckner. There were two outs, nobody on, a single by Carter, a single by 
Mitchell, a single by Ray Knight, a wild pitch, an error by Buckner. Three 
in the 9th for the Mets. They've won the game 6-5 and we shall play here 
... tomorrow night! Well, open up the history book, folks, we've got an 
entry for you. Off the stretch, Orosco, here's the pitch...swing and a 
long one into left field! Way back in the corner...GRAND SLAMMMMMAAHHH! 
A grand slam home run by Herr! And that's a winner! Twelve to eight! Here's 
the pitch...Swing and a fly ball, you want another winner here? Coleman 
going to it ... YOU GOT IT! That's a winner! 6–0 Cardinals! Gibson ... 
swings and a fly ball to deep right field. This is gonna be a home run! 
UNBELIEVABLE! A home run for Gibson! And the Dodgers have won the game, 
five to four; I don't believe what I just saw! I don't BELIEVE what I just 
saw! Montana is back to throw. He looks and throws, end zone ... TOUCHDOWN! 
Touchdown ... to John Taylor with 34 seconds left! A 10 yard touchdown 
pass to John Taylor, and the 49ers lead by three, and the extra point will 
put the nail in the Cincinnati coffin. There's the snap; there's the kick. 
It is up; it is...NO GOOD! Norwood missed! Four seconds left. The Giants 
have won Super Bowl XXV by the score of 20–19. Into deep left center ... 
for Mitchell ... and we'll see you ... tomorrow night! The Twins are gonna 
win the World Series! The Twins have won it! It's a base hit! It's a 1–0, 
ten inning victory! Mike Morgan is the pitcher. Here's the pitch to McGwire 
... SWING ... looky there! LOOKY THERE!!!! Looky there! McGwire's number 
sixty-one!!! McGwire's flight 61 headed for Planet Maris! History! Bedlam! 
