The Jackie Robinson Parkway is a 4.95-mile (7.97 km) parkway in the New 
York City boroughs of Brooklyn and Queens. The western terminus of the 
parkway is at Jamaica Avenue in the Brooklyn neighborhood of East New York. 
It runs through Highland Park, along the north side of Ridgewood Reservoir, 
and through Forest Park. The eastern terminus is at the Kew Gardens Interchange 
in Kew Gardens, Queens, where the Jackie Robinson Parkway meets the Grand 
Central Parkway and Interstate 678 (I-678, the Van Wyck Expressway). It 
is designated New York State Route 908B (NY 908B), an unsigned reference 
route. The parkway was officially named the Interboro Parkway until 1997, 
when it was renamed for former Major League Baseball player Jackie Robinson. 
The Jackie Robinson Parkway starts where Jamaica and Pennsylvania Avenues 
intersect in the Brooklyn neighborhood of East New York. Exit 1, Bushwick 
Avenue via Highland Boulevard, is a westbound-only exit. The highway enters 
Queens and passes Mount Judah Cemetery before exit 2 at Vermont Place and 
Cypress Avenue, which lead to Highland Park and the Hungarian Cemetery. 
Exit 3, Cypress Hills Street, leads to Cypress Hills Cemetery, where Jackie 
Robinson is buried. Here the parkway narrows and makes sharp turns. At 
exit 4, Forest Park Drive, the parkway enters Forest Park. Exit 5 is at 
Myrtle Avenue and Woodhaven Boulevard. At exit 6, Metropolitan Avenue, 
Union Turnpike straddles the parkway, but there is no access to or from 
Union Turnpike. The parkway and Union Turnpike then exit the Forest Park 
neighborhood, and go under Queens Boulevard (NY 25). Union Turnpike shares 
a diamond interchange with Queens Boulevard, but there is no access from 
the parkway. Exit 7, an eastbound-only exit, goes to the Van Wyck Expressway 
(I-678) northbound (no access southbound). Exit 8 (eastbound only) is the 
Grand Central Parkway, where the Jackie Robinson Parkway ends. A boulevard 
spanning from Coney Island to Prospect Park was under construction in 1897, 
extending further toward Highland Park and planned to enter Queens County 
at the Ridgewood Reservoir. This boulevard would later be known as Eastern 
Parkway. An extension of Eastern Parkway was suggested by Brooklyn city 
officials, running from Cypress Hills Cemetery through Forest Park to Dry 
Harbor Road and then toward Hoffman Boulevard (now Queens Boulevard). An 
extension of the Eastern Parkway following a similar route was suggested 
in 1899 by the Queens County Topographical Bureau, the extension running 
through Cypress Hills Cemetery and Forest Park to Dry Harbor Road.[3] Officials 
proposed an amendment to the Rural Cemetery Act to "provide for the construction 
of a road" running through the Cypress Hills Cemetery, connecting Brooklyn 
and Queens. This proposed road was to serve as an extension of Eastern 
Parkway, running though Cypress Hills Cemetery toward Forest Park where 
it would connect to an existing road. This bill was introduced in the New 
York State Legislature in 1901 but failed to pass, and failed to pass every 
subsequent year it was reintroduced in the legislature. The bill finally 
was passed in 1908, however no funds were allocated to the project.[3] 
As the presence of motor vehicles were increasing, especially due to the 
success of Henry Ford's Model T, by July 1923, local civic associations 
were pressuring the government to build the road. New York City's Board 
of Estimate proposed to construct the road if local residents financed 
the construction, to no avail.[3] In order to exploit a "condition of approval" 
with the Cypress Hills Cemetery expiring on 1 January 1928, New York City 
authorities began expediting plans for the parkway in March 1927. The trustees 
of the cemetery approved the city's acquisition of land for the parkway 
on the condition that "physical improvement of the road be started" prior 
to 1 January 1928. The Board of Estimate convened on 24 March 1927 to discuss 
the cost estimates for the parkway, including land acquisition and grave 
removal. Several civic associations from Glendale and Ridgewood suggested 
the cost of parkway construction be split - 45% of the cost would be covered 
by New York City, 35% would be covered by Brooklyn, 15% by Queens and finally 
5% by residents living south of the parkway. This proposal would have exempted 
Ridgewood and Glendale, neighborhoods north of the parkway, from paying 
for the parkway construction. The planned parkway would serve as an extension 
of Eastern Parkway from its terminus in Brooklyn, running through Highland 
Park toward the Ridgewood Reservoir. From the Ridgewood Reservoir, the 
parkway would cross Cypress Hills Street into Cypress Hills Cemetery. The 
parkway would "pass through the cemetery just south of the boundary" with 
Mount Carmel Cemetery and enter Forest Park, where the New York City Parks 
Department would construct a "driveway several hundred feet long from the 
end of the parkway" to connect with an existing road in Forest Park. The 
estimated costs for this planned parkway was projected at $3,500,000.[3] 
In July 1928, New York City was "granted authority to acquire the land 
for the roadbed by condemnation" along the eastern section of Highland 
Park toward Forest Park.[3] However, it was announced on August 1928 that 
construction commencement on the parkway was delayed "until July or August 
1929" due to an issue "routing the road" through the Cypress Hills and 
Mount Carmel cemeteries while disturbing as few graves as possible. Announced 
in November 1929, another delay on parkway construction occurred, this 
time between Cypress Hills Street and Forest Park. The issue surrounding 
the delay revolved around legal dispute between city authorities and Cypress 
Hills Cemetery, where New York mayor James J. Walker wanted to "avoid a 
law suit [sic] over the removal of several hundred bodies" that laid along 
the path of the projected parkway.[4] In December 1930, New York State 
offered to construct the parkway "at their expense" should New York City 
"agree to acquire a minimum width of 190 feet" for the parkway, rather 
than the initially planned 150 feet set by the city. The state's offer 
was ignored due to both its tentative nature and that it would force city 
officials to reopen "condemnation proceedings" in order to acquire an additional 
40 feet of road width along the entire course of the parkway.[4] On 2 January 
1931, city officials announced that the Interboro Parkway would parallel 
Cypress Avenue to the north, running "along the north side" of the Ridgewood 
Reservoir to Cypress Hills Street. Cypress Avenue would, as a result, be 
paved from Cooper Avenue to the Interboro Parkway. Grave exhumation and 
reburial was required before construction of this section of the highway 
could begin, and costs were estimated at $675,000.[4] City officials declared 
in June 1933 that the Interboro Parkway from Highland Park to Forest Park 
cost $1,978,000. This cost was split as follows: $959,330 (48%) by New 
York City, $296,700 (15%) by Brooklyn and Queens each, and $29,670 (1.5%) 
by the Cypress Hills and Mount Carmel cemeteries.[4] In the meantime, an 
extension of the parkway was being constructed from Forest Park toward 
Metropolitan Avenue and terminating at the Grand Central Parkway, at the 
present-day Kew Gardens Interchange. The Interboro Parkway was scheduled 
to open for traffic on 1 November 1934. However, in late December 1933, 
plans for the parkway were revised; the western terminus of the parkway 
would be moved to its present-day location at the intersection of Highland 
Boulevard and Bushwick Avenue. Under this plan, an additional mile of road 
was to be constructed, requiring the condemnation of 7.5 acres of land 
from the Cemetery of the Evergreens. This tract of land did not require 
grave removals as was the case with Cypress Hills and Mount Carmel cemeteries.[4] 
The Interboro Parkway opened to traffic in June 1935, remaining unfinished 
until the completion of the Highland Boulevard-Bushwick Avenue extension 
in September 1935.[4] Issues with the parkway designed plagued its usefulness, 
as declared by the New York City Planning Department in 1941. One issue 
was the presence of "bad curves" at two sections of the parkway. These 
curves, as viewed by the department, a "serious hazard" to drivers but 
rectifying the problem would prove difficult due to the parkway's location 
through cemeteries. Furthermore, the department criticized a lack of highway 
connections at the parkway's western terminus in Brooklyn. The department 
suggested that the proposed Cross Brooklyn Express Highway would connect 
to the Interboro Parkway, rectifying this problem.[5] However, the proposed 
Cross Brooklyn Express Highway was never constructed as it was cancelled 
by New York City mayor John Lindsay in 1969.[6] An extension to Jamaica 
Bay was proposed in the 1963. This extension, proposed by Robert Moses, 
would run 3.4 miles through southern Brooklyn, specifically East New York, 
New Lots and Starrett City. Pennsylvania Avenue was presumed to serve as 
a service road for the extended parkway. Construction cost was estimated 
at $30 million and scheduled for completion in 1976. However, the extension 
was cancelled in the late 1960s.[5] Part of the original parkway contract 
included the construction of a pair of service stations just west of exit 6 
(Metropolitan Avenue) in Forest Park. The stone-faced gas stations, which 
were located along the eastbound and westbound lanes of the parkway, were 
torn down in the late 1970s. The New York State Department of Transportation 
began reconstruction parts of the parkway in 1987. Ramps along the parkway 
were rebuilt, converting the junction with Metropolitan Avenue at Exit 
6 from a "tight cloverleaf interchange" to a four-ramp diamond interchange. 
The road was rebuilt as well, installing a concrete median and new lighting 
along the route. Speed limits were decreased at the swerving curve at the 
Cypress Hills Cemetery and at the curve beneath the Queens Boulevard underpass, 
problem spots noted earlier in the 1941 report by the New York City Planning 
Department. Reconstruction finished in 1992.[5] The parkway's name was 
changed to honor Jackie Robinson in May 1997, as part of 50th anniversary 
activities marking his breaking of the baseball color line.[7] In addition 
to playing for the Brooklyn Dodgers, Robinson was known to live and own 
property in the area along the parkway, and his gravesite is located in 
Cypress Hills Cemetery, located adjacent to Exit 3. A juncture at the eastern 
end of the parkway was placed on the list of New York State's most dangerous 
