John Beasley "Jack" Brickhouse (January 24, 1916 – August 6, 1998) was 
an American sportscaster. Known primarily for his play-by-play coverage 
of Chicago Cubs games on WGN-TV from 1948 to 1981, he received the Ford 
C. Frick Award from the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1983. In 1985, Brickhouse 
was inducted into the American Sportscasters Association Hall of Fame along 
with the Voice of the Yankees Mel Allen and Red Sox Voice Curt Gowdy. Brickhouse 
served as the organization's Secretary/Treasurer and was a member of its 
Board of Directors. Brickhouse also called Chicago White Sox games prior 
to that team leaving WGN in 1968. He covered national events from time 
to time, including three World Series for NBC television, although the 
Cubs never got there during his tenure. The voice on the audio track of 
the famous Willie Mays catch in Game 1 of the 1954 Series at the Polo Grounds 
belongs to Brickhouse, who was doing the Series along with the New York 
Giants' regular broadcaster, Russ Hodges. (Brickhouse himself had called 
Giants games locally in 1946.) Brickhouse called the 1959 Series, which 
featured the White Sox with Los Angeles Dodgers announcer Vin Scully, and 
the 1950 Series with Jim Britt. In addition, Brickhouse partnered with 
fellow baseball broadcasting legend Mel Allen for NBC's coverage of the 
1952 Rose Bowl, and with Chris Schenkel for the network's coverage of two 
NFL Championship Games (1956 and 1963). Brickhouse covered many other events, 
sports and otherwise (such as professional wrestling, for WGN and political 
conventions for the Mutual radio network). From 1953 to 1977 he was the 
voice of Chicago Bears football on WGN-AM radio, in an unlikely and entertaining 
pairing with the famous Chicago Sun-Times gossip columnist Irv Kupcinet. 
Brickhouse was a boxing commentator as well. Fights he worked include the 
1949 fight between Jersey Joe Walcott and Ezzard Charles and the 1951 fight 
between Johnny Bratton and Charley Fusari.[1] He did Chicago Bulls basketball 
games for WGN-TV from 1966 until 1973 as well. Brickhouse was born in Peoria, 
Illinois to Will and Daisy Brickhouse. His father died when Jack was just 
two years old, and he was largely raised by his mother. He started his 
first job when he was only eleven, delivering the Peoria Journal and Peoria 
Star, and subsequently attended Peoria Manual High School. He began his 
long broadcasting career when only eighteen, at Peoria radio station WMBD 
in 1934. Chicago radio station WGN hired him in 1940 to broadcast Cubs 
and White Sox games, largely on the recommendation of their top announcer, 
Bob Elson. His was the very first face shown when WGN-TV, Chicago's Channel 
9, began broadcasting in 1948. This came after his U.S. Marine Corps service 
in World War II. Brickhouse missed the 1945 Cubs season, the only time 
in Brickhouse's long tenure that the Cubs would win the National League 
pennant. He announced White Sox games on WJJD in 1945. His only pennant 
as a broadcaster would belong to the White Sox in 1959, but neither the 
1945 Cubs nor the 1959 Sox won the World Series. He broadcast both Cubs 
and White Sox games until 1967, which he was able to do because they almost 
never played at home on the same day. He retired in 1981. Even in retirement, 
Brickhouse maintained a high profile as a Cubs and WGN ambassador. He would 
occasionally return to the booth for special events, such as Wrigley Field's 
annual "70's Night". He also guested with Harry Caray when the Cubs secured 
their first postseason berth in 39 years, as they clinched the 1984 National 
League Eastern Division title in Pittsburgh. The Cubs won the first two 
games of the League Championship Series at Wrigley but lost three games 
to the Padres in San Diego, once again failing to win the pennant (1984 
was the last year in which the LCS was only a best-of-five series). Brickhouse 
tried to let the pictures speak for themselves. In contrast, his successor 
as Cubs announcer, Harry Caray, a radio broadcaster by training, tended 
to describe the game on TV as if he were doing a radio broadcast. Brickhouse 
was sparer with his descriptive prose; perhaps not as spare as Vin Scully 
of the Los Angeles Dodgers, but talking in quick bursts rather than long 
sentences, knowing that the well-established camera work of WGN-TV and 
of producer Arne Harris would tell much of the story. Instead of over-describing 
the action, "Brick" was more likely to add "flavor" to what was obviously 
happening, with almost childlike enthusiasm. He would pepper his play-by-play 
with various old-fashioned expressions, such as "Whew, boy!" after a close 
play that went the home team's way, or "Oh, brother!" when it went the 
other way, or "Wheeeee!" when the team would do something well. During 
games at Wrigley Field, if the score was tied going into the bottom of 
the ninth inning, Brickhouse would retort, "Any old kind of a run wins 
it for the Cubs." His best-known expression was "Hey-hey!" after an outstanding 
play by the home team such as a homer in baseball or a touchdown in football, 
or even after taking a trick in a card game. But it was when he used it 
for a home run call that stuck in fans' memories, and that phrase now vertically 
adorns the screens on the foul poles at Wrigley Field along with Caray's 
signature expression, "Holy Cow!" Chicago columnist and lifelong Cubs fan 
Mike Royko's annual Cubs quiz, April 11, 1968, included the following question: 
(One More Time: The Best of Mike Royko, University of Chicago, 1999, p. 29-31) 
Some examples of Brickhouse's calls: September 22, 1959; White Sox at Cleveland 
in the ninth inning of what would be the American League pennant-clinching 
game. "[Carroll] Hardy on second, [Jimmy] Piersall on first, and 'dangerous' 
Vic Power is up ... one out. Power ... is 1 for 4, an infield single ... 
there's a ground ball ... [Luis] Aparicio has it ... steps on second, throws 
to first ... The Ball Game's over! The White Sox are the Champions of 1959!! 
a forty-year ... wait has now ended!!!" May 15, 1960; pitcher Don Cardwell, 
in his Cub debut, is trying to get the last out of a no-hitter, against 
the St. Louis Cardinals; the batter is Joe Cunningham, the left fielder 
is Walt "Moose" Moryn... December 15, 1963; Bears defensive back Dave Whitsell 
makes a game-winning pick-six interception, defeating Detroit and clinching 
the Western Conference for the Bears... May 12, 1970; Atlanta's Pat Jarvis 
pitches to "Mr. Cub", Ernie Banks... On February 27, 1998, Brickhouse fell 
ill and collapsed while preparing for the funeral of fellow Chicago legendary 
broadcaster Harry Caray. Following brain surgery on March 3 to remove a 
blood clot, he quickly improved, even making a few on-air appearances in 
the spring and early summer. Though burdened with a gravelly voice (which 
he attributed to the surgery and said would soon pass), Brickhouse seemed 
on the road to recovery until his death on August 6 from cardiac arrest. 
He was interred at the Rosehill Cemetery and Mausoleum in Chicago.[2] Brickhouse 
was inducted into the Radio Hall of Fame in 1998.[3] Petterchak, Janice 
A. (1996). Jack Brickhouse – A Voice For All Seasons. Contemporary Books, 
