John Joseph Dunn (October 6, 1872 – October 22, 1928) was an American pitcher 
in Major League Baseball at the turn of the 20th century who later went 
on to become a minor league baseball club owner. Dunn was born in Meadville, 
Pennsylvania, and grew up in Bayonne, New Jersey. When he was nine, a boxcar 
ran over his left arm while playing at a local railway.[1] He was told 
by doctors that his arm had to be either amputated or risk death. He declined 
an amputation, but his arm was left crippled from above the elbow and couldn't 
lift the arm above his neck.[2] In 1896 he played for Toronto in the Eastern 
League, and the following year he reached the major leagues as a pitcher 
for the Brooklyn Bridegrooms. He bounced around the majors for seven years, 
having one good season with the Bridegrooms in 1899, with a 23–13 record. 
When he wasn't playing, Dunn studied how the game worked from the sidelines.[3] 
He was also a third baseman and shortstop. After 1904, he pitched and managed 
in the minors for a few seasons, winning an International League pennant 
in 1905. In 1907, Dunn took over as manager of the Baltimore Orioles, a 
minor league club with no connection to the current major league team by 
that name. He bought the team on November 16, 1909 for $70,000. He allegedly 
received a $10,000 loan from Philadelphia Athletics owner/manager Connie 
Mack. He developed a minor league powerhouse by scouting and developing 
his own players. He allegedly signed players by how they looked instead 
of skill, sometimes never seeing a player play before offering a contract.[3] 
Dunn first achieved renown in 1914 when his Orioles were running away with 
the league pennant but losing money at the box office because of a rival 
team in town from the new aspiring "third major league", the Federal League 
with its team of the Baltimore Terrapins (a local species of turtle and 
tasty cuisine dish and delicacy for the Chesapeake Bay region) at their 
new steel-beamed modern stadium of "Terrapin Park" across the street at 
Greenmount Avenue and 29th Street from his older "American League Park" 
of 1901 from the club's days in the beginnings of the "upstart" American 
League, in what became known as the "Federal League Wars". To make his 
payroll, Dunn had to move the team to Richmond, Virginia and sell off his 
star player, Babe Ruth, and 11 other players to the majors. He later said 
that selling Ruth was his biggest regret. Dunn was indirectly responsible 
for Ruth's famous nickname, with Ruth's teammates referring to him as "Dunn's 
$10,000 Babe" for the price he drew. The team moved back to Baltimore in 
1916, and Dunn again put together a juggernaut, ultimately signing 10 more 
players who went on to have solid major league careers. The best of these 
was pitcher Lefty Grove, who went 109–36 as an Oriole between 1920 and 
1924. By that time, Dunn's team was in the midst of winning seven straight 
International League championships, many by huge margins. In addition to 
Grove, Dunn discovered other quality major leaguers such as Jack Bentley, 
Ernie Shore, George Earnshaw, Dick Porter and Tommy Thomas. Dunn's team 
was regarded as the equal of many major league teams, and he kept them 
so by refusing to trade or sell players to the majors. It wasn't until 
the 1925 off-season, when the other, struggling teams in the League made 
an agreement with the majors on a set price for transferring players, that 
Dunn finally relented and began selling his stars for money. His team won 
one more league title in 1925 and then dropped back into the pack. Dunn 
