Jackie Autry, (born Jacqueline Evelyn Ellam October 2, 1941 in Newark, 
New Jersey, US)[1] is the former owner of the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim 
and widow of singer, actor and businessman Gene Autry. She was the Honorary 
President of Major League Baseball's American League, from 2000 until 2015. 
Her main task was to present the American League Championship Award, the 
William Harridge Trophy, to the champion at the end of the ALCS as well 
as the ALCS MVP award. Autry is the only woman to ever serve on the Major 
League Baseball Executive Council, on its Oversight Committee, and as a 
member of the MLB board of directors. Autry served as past President of 
the American Red Cross; was responsible as President for raising funds 
to build an independent Community Blood Bank at the Eisenhower Medical 
Center and served as its President for many years. The Blood Bank continues 
to serve seven area hospitals surrounding the Palm Springs area. She continues 
to serve on the Board of Trustees at Eisenhower Medical Center and is the 
longest tenured Trustee having served since 1981. She is also a current 
member of the board of directors of the Barbara Sinatra Children's Center. 
Is President of Gene Autry Music Publishing Companies which houses four 
publishing companies. Is President of the Autry Foundation which was established 
by Gene and Ina Autry. Funding from this Foundation provided the funds 
to build a world class western history museum contiguous to the Los Angeles 
Zoo. The 148,000 sq ft (13,700 m2). Museum now called the Autry National 
Center houses the Museum of the American West, Southwest Museum of the 
American Indian and the Institute for the Study of the American West. After 
13 years she retired as Board chairman and now holds the position of chairman 
Emeritus and Lifetime Director. She is Vice Chairman of Aerospace Technologies 
Group/ATGGroup/ which makes shades for corporate and commercial jets in 
which she is the majority stock holder. She is a co-producer with partner 
Dennis Osborne in Control Freak Productions, which produces movies scripts 
that are generated internally. Now in semi-retirement, she handles investment 
portfolios, continues to attend Angels baseball games and enjoys traveling. 
She has a home in Palm Springs, California and also in Studio City, California. 
In 2007 Autry won the Golden Boot Award for contributions to the genre 
of Western television and films.[2] She played herself in the 2007 documentary, 
Gene Autry: White Hat, Silver Screen, and was the Executive Producer of 
the 2009 documentary, When Dream Worlds Collide.[1] On November 25, 2010 
(Thanksgiving Day), Autry was driving a car in Palm Springs that hit and 
killed a pedestrian, Jesus Cardova Diaz, who was a homeless man. She received 
no civil or criminal charges as she was clearly sober and the man she hit 
