Jakarta /dʒəˈkɑːrtə/,[note 1] (formerly named Sunda Kelapa, Jayakarta and 
Batavia) officially the Special Capital Region of Jakarta, is the capital 
and most populous city of the Republic of Indonesia. Located on the northwest 
coast of the world's most populous island of Java, Jakarta is the country's 
economic, cultural and political center, with a population of 10,075,310 
as of 2014[update].[5][6] The official metropolitan area, known as Jabodetabek 
(a name formed by combining the initial syllables of Jakarta, Bogor, Depok, 
Tangerang and Bekasi), is the second largest in the world, yet the metropolis' 
suburbs still continue beyond it. Its unofficial built-up (metropolitan) 
area covers Bogor, Tangerang, Bekasi, Karawang, Serang, Purwakarta, Sukabumi 
and Subang regencies (123 districts), also including Tangerang, Bekasi, 
Tangerang Selatan, Depok, Serang and Cilegon Municipalities, which in total 
were home to 30,214,303 inhabitants as of 2010[update] census.[7] Established 
in the fourth century, the city became an important trading port for the 
Kingdom of Sunda. It was the de facto capital of the Dutch East Indies 
(known as Batavia at that time). Today, the city has continued as the capital 
of Indonesia since the country's independence was declared in 1945. The 
city is currently the seat of the ASEAN Secretariat as well as important 
financial institutions such as the Bank of Indonesia, the Indonesia Stock 
Exchange, and the corporate headquarters of numerous Indonesian companies 
and multinational corporations. Jakarta's business opportunities, as well 
as its potential to offer a higher standard of living, attract migrants 
from all over Indonesia, making the city a melting pot of many communities 
and cultures.[8] Jakarta is listed as an alpha-global city in the 2012 
Globalization and World Cities Study Group and Network (GaWC) research.[9] 
Based on the global metro monitor by the Brookings Institution, in 2014, 
economic growth in Jakarta ranked 34th among the world's 200 largest cities.[10] 
Jakarta has grown more rapidly than Kuala Lumpur, Beijing, and Bangkok.[11] 
Jakarta has been home to multiple settlements along with their respective 
names: Sunda Kelapa (397–1527), Jayakarta (1527–1619), Batavia (1619–1942), 
Djakarta (1942–1972), and Jakarta (1972–present) Its current name derives 
from the word Jayakarta. The origins of this word can be traced to the 
Old Javanese and ultimately to the Sanskrit language. "Jayakarta" translates 
as "victorious deed", "complete act", or "complete victory". Jakarta is 
nicknamed the Big Durian, the thorny strongly-odored fruit native to the 
region,[1] as the city is seen as the Indonesian equivalent of New York 
City (the Big Apple).[12] In the colonial era, the city was also known 
as Koningin van het Oosten (Queen of the Orient), initially in the 17th 
century for the urban beauty of downtown Batavia's canals, mansions and 
ordered city layout.[13] After expanding to the south in the 19th century, 
this nickname came to be more associated with the suburbs (e.g. Menteng 
and the area around Merdeka Square), with their wide lanes, many green 
spaces and villas.[14] The area in and around modern Jakarta was part of 
the fourth century Sundanese kingdom of Tarumanagara, one of the oldest 
Hindu kingdoms in Indonesia.[15] Following the decline of Tarumanagara, 
its territories, including the Jakarta area, became part of the Hindu Kingdom 
of Sunda. From 7th to early 13th century port of Sunda was within the sphere 
of influence of the Srivijaya maritime empire. According to the Chinese 
source, Chu-fan-chi, written circa 1225, Chou Ju-kua reported in the early 
13th century Srivijaya still ruled Sumatra, the Malay peninsula and western 
Java (Sunda). The source reports the port of Sunda as strategic and thriving, 
pepper from Sunda being among the best in quality. The people worked in 
agriculture and their houses were built on wooden piles.[16] The harbour 
area became known as Sunda Kelapa (Sundanese: ᮞᮥᮔ᮪ᮓ ᮊᮜᮕ) and by the fourteenth 
century, it was a major trading port for Sunda kingdom. The first European 
fleet, four Portuguese ships from Malacca, arrived in 1513 when the Portuguese 
were looking for a route for spices.[17] The Hindu Kingdom of Sunda made 
an alliance treaty with Portugal by allowing the Portuguese to build a 
port in 1522 to defend against the rising power of the Islamic Sultanate 
of Demak from central Java.[18] In 1527, Fatahillah, a Javanese general 
from Demak attacked and conquered Sunda Kelapa, driving out the Portuguese. 
Sunda Kelapa was renamed Jayakarta,[18] and became a fiefdom of the Sultanate 
of Banten which became a major Southeast Asia trading centre. Through the 
relationship with Prince Jayawikarta from the Sultanate of Banten, Dutch 
ships arrived in Jayakarta in 1596. In 1602, the English East India Company's 
first voyage, commanded by Sir James Lancaster, arrived in Aceh and sailed 
on to Banten where they were allowed to build a trading post. This site 
became the centre of English trade in Indonesia until 1682.[19] Jayawikarta 
is thought to have made trading connections with the English merchants, 
rivals of the Dutch, by allowing them to build houses directly across from 
the Dutch buildings in 1615.[20] When relations between Prince Jayawikarta 
and the Dutch deteriorated, Jayawikarta's soldiers attacked the Dutch fortress. 
Prince Jayawikarta's army and the English were defeated by the Dutch, in 
part owing to the timely arrival of Jan Pieterszoon Coen (J.P. Coen). The 
Dutch burned the English fort, and forced the English to retreat on their 
ships. The victory consolidated Dutch power and in 1619 they renamed the 
city Batavia. Commercial opportunities in the capital of the Dutch colony 
attracted Indonesian and especially Chinese and Arab immigrants. This sudden 
population increase created burdens on the city. Tensions grew as the colonial 
government tried to restrict Chinese migration through deportations. Following 
a revolt, 5,000 Chinese were massacred by the Dutch and natives on 9 October 
1740 and the following year, Chinese inhabitants were moved to Glodok outside 
the city walls.[21] At the beginning of the nineteenth century, around 
400 Arabs and Moors lived in Batavia, a number which changed little during 
the following decades. Among the commodities traded, fabrics, especially 
imported cotton, batik and clothing occupied by Arab communities.[22] The 
city began to expand further south as epidemics in 1835 and 1870 caused 
more people to move away from the port. The Koningsplein, now Merdeka Square 
was completed in 1818, the housing park of Menteng was started in 1913,[23] 
and Kebayoran Baru was the last Dutch-built residential area.[21] By 1930 
Batavia had more than 500,000 inhabitants,[24] including 37,067 Europeans.[25] 
After World War II, the city of Batavia was renamed "Jakarta" (short form 
of Jayakarta) by the Indonesian nationalists after achieving independence 
from the Dutch in 1946.[26] Following World War II, Indonesian Republicans 
withdrew from Allied-occupied Jakarta during their fight for Indonesian 
independence and established their capital in Yogyakarta. In 1950, once 
independence was secured, Jakarta was once again made the national capital.[21] 
Indonesia's founding president, Sukarno, envisaged Jakarta as a great international 
city, and instigated large government-funded projects with openly nationalistic 
and modernist architecture.[27][28] Projects included a clover-leaf highway, 
a major boulevard (Jalan MH Thamrin-Sudirman), monuments such as The National 
Monument, Hotel Indonesia, a shopping centre, and a new parliament building. 
In October 1965, Jakarta was the site of an abortive coup attempt in which 
6 top generals were killed, precipitating a violent anti-communist purge 
in which half-a million people were killed, including many ethnic Chinese,[29] 
and the beginning of Suharto's New Order. A monument stands where the generals' 
bodies were dumped. In 1966, Jakarta was declared a "special capital region" 
(daerah khusus ibukota), thus gaining a status approximately equivalent 
to that of a province.[30] Lieutenant General Ali Sadikin served as Governor 
from the mid-1960s commencement of the "New Order" through to 1977; he 
rehabilitated roads and bridges, encouraged the arts, built several hospitals, 
and a large number of new schools. He also cleared out slum dwellers for 
new development projects—some for the benefit of the Suharto family[31][32]—and 
tried to eliminate rickshaws and ban street vendors. He began control of 
migration to the city to stem overcrowding and poverty.[33] Foreign investment 
contributed to a real estate boom which changed the face of the city.[34] 
The boom ended with the 1997/98 East Asian Economic crisis putting Jakarta 
at the centre of violence, protest, and political maneuvering. After 32 
years in power, support for President Suharto began to wane. Tensions reached 
a peak in when four students were shot dead at Trisakti University by security 
forces; four days of riots and violence ensued that killed an estimated 
1,200, and destroyed or damaged 6,000 buildings.[35] Much of the rioting 
targeted Chinese Indonesians.[36] Suharto resigned as president, and Jakarta 
has remained the focal point of democratic change in Indonesia.[37] Jemaah 
Islamiah-connected bombings occurred almost annually in the city between 
2000 and 2005,[21] with another bombing in 2009.[38] Jakarta is administratively 
equal to a province with special status as the capital of Indonesia. It 
has a governor (instead of a mayor). As a province, the official name of 
Jakarta is Daerah Khusus Ibukota Jakarta ("Special Capital City District 
of Jakarta"), which in Indonesian is abbreviated to DKI Jakarta. Jakarta 
consists of five kota administratif (administrative cities/municipalities), 
each headed by a mayor – and a kabupaten administratif (administrative 
regency) headed by a bupati (regent). Unlike other cities and regencies 
in Indonesia where the mayor or regent are elected by the people, Jakarta's 
mayors and regent are chosen by the Governor of Jakarta. The administrative 
cities/municipalities of Jakarta are: The only administrative regency (kabupaten) 
of Jakarta is: In September 1945, the government of Jakarta City was changed 
from the Japanese Jakarta Special City (ジャカルタ特別市, Jakaruta tokubetsu-shi?) 
into the Jakarta National Administration. This first government was held 
by a mayor until the end of 1960, when the office was changed to that of 
a governor. The last mayor of Jakarta was Sudiro, until he was replaced 
by Dr Sumarno as governor of the province (as the city had now become). 
In 1974, Based on the Act No. 5 of 1974 relating to the Fundamentals of 
Regional Government, Jakarta was confirmed as the capital of Indonesia 
and one of Indonesia's (then) 26 provinces.[45] In August 2007, Jakarta 
held its first ever election to choose a governor, whereas previously the 
city's governors were appointed by the local house of representatives. 
The poll is part of a country-wide decentralisation drive, allowing for 
direct local elections in several areas.[46] The ability of the regional 
government to respond to the many problems of Jakarta is constrained by 
extremely limited finances. In 2013 the total budget available to the Jakarta 
regional government was approved at around Rp 50 trillion (about $US 5.2 billion), 
equivalent to around $US 380 per citizen. Priority areas of spending were 
listed as education, transport, flood control measures, environment programs, 
and various types of social spending (such as health and housing).[47] 
The Jakarta provincial government, like all other provincial governments 
in Indonesia, relies on transfers from the central government for the bulk 
of budget income. Local (non-central government) sources of revenue are 
incomes from various taxes such as vehicle ownership and vehicle transfer 
fees and so on.[48] In recent years, the Jakarta provincial government 
has consistently run a surplus of between 15–20% of total planned spending, 
largely because of delays in procurement procedures and other inefficiencies 
in the spending process.[49] Regular underspending is a matter of frequent 
public comment but the legal and administrative blockages that cause the 
underspending problem seem very difficult to overcome.[50] Indonesian Statistics 
Bureau: Jakarta in Figures[51] Jakarta is located on the northwest coast 
of Java, at the mouth of the Ciliwung River on Jakarta Bay, which is an 
inlet of the Java Sea. It is one of the only two Asian capital cities which 
located on southern hemisphere (another one is Dili, capital of Timor Leste). 
Officially, the area of the Jakarta Special District is 662 km2 (256 sq mi) 
of land area and 6,977 km2 (2,694 sq mi) of sea area.[52] The Thousand 
Islands, which are administratively a part of Jakarta, are located in Jakarta 
Bay, north of the city. Jakarta lies in a low, flat basin, ranged from 
−2 to 50 metres (−7 to 164 ft) with average elevation 8 metres (26 ft) 
above sea level;[citation needed] 40% of Jakarta, particularly the northern 
areas, is below sea level,[53] while the southern parts are comparatively 
hilly. Rivers flow from the Puncak highlands to the south of the city, 
across the city northwards towards the Java Sea; the most important[clarification 
needed] is the Ciliwung River, which divides the city into the western 
and eastern principalities. Other rivers include the Pesanggrahan, and 
Sunter. All these rivers, combined with the wet season rains and insufficient 
drainage due to clogging, make Jakarta prone to flooding. Moreover, Jakarta 
is sinking about 5 to 10 centimetres each year, even up to 20 centimetres 
in the northern coastal areas. To help cope with the threat from the sea, 
the Netherlands will give $4 million for a feasibility study to build a 
dike around Jakarta Bay. The ring dike will be equipped with a pumping 
system and retention areas to defend against seawater. Additionally, the 
dike will function as a toll road. The project will be built by 2025.[54] 
In January 2014, Central Government agreed to build 2 dams in Ciawi, Bogor 
and a 1.2 kilometres tunnel from Ciliwung River to Cisadane River to ease 
Jakarta floods. Construction costs will be paid by Central Government, 
but land acquisitions is responsibility of Jakarta Authority.[55] Nowadays, 
an 1.27 kilometre with capacity 60 cubic meters per second underground 
water tunnel between Ciliwung River and East Flood Canal is being worked 
to ease Ciliwung River overflows.[56] Jakarta has a tropical monsoon climate 
(Am) according to the Köppen climate classification system. Despite being 
located relatively close to the equator, the city has distinct wet and 
dry seasons. The wet season in Jakarta covers the majority of the year, 
running from October through May. The remaining four months (June through 
September) constitute the city's dry season (each of these 4 months has 
an average monthly rainfall of less than 100 millimetres (3.9 in)). Located 
in the western part of Java, Jakarta's wet season rainfall peak is January 
and February with average monthly rainfall of 299.7 millimetres (11.80 in), 
and its dry season low point is August with a monthly average of 43.2 mm 
(1.70 in). As the economic and political capital of Indonesia, Jakarta 
attracts many domestic immigrants who bring their various languages, dialects, 
foods and customs. The "Betawi" (Orang Betawi, or "people of Batavia") 
are the descendants of the people living in and around Batavia, and recognised 
as an ethnic group from around the 18th–19th century. The Betawi people 
are mostly descended from various Southeast-Asian ethnic groups brought 
or attracted to Batavia to meet labour needs, and include people from different 
parts of Indonesia.[59] The language and Betawi culture are distinct from 
those of the Sundanese or Javanese, forming itself as a language island 
in the surrounding area. The language is mostly based on the East Malay 
dialect and enriched by loan words from Dutch, Portuguese, Sundanese, Javanese, 
Minangkabau, Chinese, and Arabic. Nowadays, the Jakarta dialect (Bahasa 
Jakarta), used as a street language by people in Jakarta, is loosely based 
on the Betawi language. Betawi arts have a low profile in Jakarta, and 
most Betawi have moved to the suburbs of Jakarta, displaced by new migrants. 
It is easier to find Java or Minang based wedding ceremonies rather than 
Betawi weddings in Jakarta. It is easier to find Javanese Gamelan instead 
of Tanjidor (a mixture between Betawi and Portuguese music), Marawis (a 
mixture between Betawi and Yemeni music) or Gambang Kromong (a mixture 
between Betawi and Chinese music). Chinese also had influenced Betawi culture, 
such as the popularity of Chinese cakes and sweets, firecrackers, to Betawi 
wedding attire that demonstrates Chinese and Arab influences. However, 
some festivals such as the Jalan Jaksa Festival or Kemang Festival include 
efforts to preserve Betawi arts by inviting artists to give performances.[60] 
Jakarta has several performing art centres, such as the classical concert 
hall Aula Simfonia Jakarta in Kemayoran, Taman Ismail Marzuki (TIM) art 
centre in Cikini, Gedung Kesenian Jakarta near Pasar Baru, Balai Sarbini 
in Plaza Semanggi area, Bentara Budaya Jakarta in Palmerah area, Pasar 
Seni (Art Market) in Ancol, and traditional Indonesian art performances 
at the pavilions of some provinces in Taman Mini Indonesia Indah. Traditional 
music is often found at high-class hotels, including Wayang and Gamelan 
performances. Javanese Wayang Orang performances can be found at Wayang 
Orang Bharata theatre near Senen bus terminal. As the country's largest 
city and capital, Jakarta has lured much national and regional talent who 
hope to find a greater audience and more opportunities for success. Jakarta 
hosts several prestigious art and culture festivals, and exhibitions, such 
as the annual Jakarta International Film Festival (JiFFest), Jakarta International 
Java Jazz Festival, Jakarta Fashion Week, Jakarta Fashion & Food Festival 
(JFFF), Jakarta Fair, Indonesia Creative Products and Jakarta Arts and 
Crafts exhibition. Flona Jakarta is a flora-and-fauna exhibition, held 
annually in August at Lapangan Banteng Park, featuring flowers, plant nurseries, 
and pets. The Jakarta Fair is held annually from mid-June to mid-July to 
celebrate the anniversary of the city and is largely centred around a trade 
fair. However, this month-long fair also features entertainment, including 
arts and music performances by local musicians. Several foreign art and 
culture centres are also established in Jakarta, and mainly serve to promote 
culture and language through learning centres, libraries, and art galleries. 
Among these foreign art and cultural centres are China Confucius Institute, 
Netherlands Erasmus Huis, UK British Council, France Centre Culturel Français, 
Germany Goethe-Institut, Japan Foundation, and the Jawaharlal Nehru Indian 
Cultural Centre. Ondel-Ondel The Golden Snail IMAX theatre at Taman Mini 
Indonesia Indah Taman Ismail Marzuki, Central Jakarta Jakarta Fair The 
museums in Jakarta cluster around the Central Jakarta Merdeka Square area, 
Jakarta Old Town, and Taman Mini Indonesia Indah. The Jakarta Old Town 
contains museums that are former institutional buildings of Colonial Batavia. 
Some of these museums are: Jakarta History Museum (former City Hall of 
Batavia), Wayang Museum (Puppet Museum) (former Church of Batavia), the 
Fine Art and Ceramic Museum (former Court House of Justice of Batavia), 
the Maritime Museum (former Sunda Kelapa warehouse), Bank Indonesia Museum 
(former Javasche Bank), and Bank Mandiri Museum (former Nederlandsche Handels 
Maatschappij). Several museums clustered in central Jakarta around the 
Merdeka Square area include: National Museum of Indonesia which also known 
as Gedung Gajah (the Elephant Building), Monumen Nasional (National Monument), 
Istiqlal Islamic Museum in Istiqlal Mosque, Jakarta, and Jakarta Cathedral 
Museum on the second floor of Jakarta Cathedral. Also in the central Jakarta 
area is the Taman Prasasti Museum (former cemetery of Batavia), and Textile 
Museum in Tanah Abang area. The recreational area of Taman Mini Indonesia 
Indah in East Jakarta contains fourteen museums, such as Indonesia Museum, 
Purna Bhakti Pertiwi Museum, Asmat Museum, Bayt al-Qur'an Islamic Museum, 
Pusaka (heirloom) Museum, and other science-based museum such as Research 
& Technology Information Centre, Komodo Indonesian Fauna Museum, Insect 
Museum, Petrol and Gas Museum, plus the Transportation Museum. Other museums 
are Satria Mandala Military Museum, Museum Sumpah Pemuda, and Lubang Buaya 
(Crocodile Well). The local cuisine of Jakarta is the Betawi cuisine, which 
reflects various foreign culinary traditions that have influenced the inhabitants 
of Jakarta for centuries. Betawi cuisine is heavily influenced by Malay-Chinese 
Peranakan cuisine, neighbouring Sundanese and Javanese cuisine, but also 
includes Indian, Arabic and European colonial influences. One of the most 
popular local dishes in Jakarta is Soto Betawi which is made from chunks 
of beef meat and offals in rich and spicy cow's milk or coconut milk broth. 
Other popular Betawi dishes includes soto kaki, nasi uduk, kerak telor 
(spicy omelette), nasi ulam, asinan, ketoprak, rujak and gado-gado Betawi 
(salad in peanut sauce). Jakarta has a vast range of food available at 
hundreds of eating venues and foodcourts located all over the city, from 
modest street-side warung foodstalls and travelling vendors to high-end 
fine dining restaurants. Since Jakarta is regarded as the 'melting-pot' 
and a miniature version of Indonesia, many traditional foods from far-flung 
regions in Indonesia can be found in Jakarta. For example, traditional 
Padang restaurants and low-budget Warteg (Warung Tegal) foodstalls are 
ubiquitous in the capital. Other popular street foods include nasi goreng 
(fried rice), sate (skewered meats), pecel lele (fried catfish), bakso 
(meatballs), bakpau (Chinese bun) and siomay (fish dumplings). Next to 
a myriad of Indonesian food and regional specialties from all over Indonesia, 
foreign food is also represented: Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Thai, Indian, 
American, French, Italian, Vietnamese, Middle Eastern, and modern fusion 
food can all be found in Jakarta.[61] Jakarta has numerous newspaper publications, 
television and radio stations. Several newspapers, including daily, business, 
and digital papers, are based in Jakarta. Daily newspapers include Kompas, 
Koran Tempo, Media Indonesia, Republika, Suara Pembaruan, Seputar Indonesia, 
Suara Karya, Sinar Harapan, Indo Pos, Jurnal Nasional, and Harian Pelita. 
English language newspapers are also published daily, for example The Jakarta 
Post and The Jakarta Globe. Chinese language newspapers are Indonesia Shang 
Bao (印尼商报), Harian Indonesia (印尼星洲日报), and Guo Ji Ri Bao (国际日报). The only 
Japanese language newspaper is The Daily Jakarta Shimbun (じゃかるた新聞). Jakarta 
has also the daily newspapers segment such as Pos Kota, Warta Kota, Koran 
Jakarta, Berita Kota for local readers; Bisnis Indonesia, Investor Daily, 
Kontan, Harian Neraca (business news) as well as Top Skor and Soccer (sport 
news). Jakarta are the headquarters for Indonesia's state media public 
government stations, TVRI as well as private national television include 
Metro TV, tvOne, Kompas TV, Trans TV, Trans 7, RCTI, MNC, SCTV, Global 
TV, Indosiar, ANTV, RTV and NET.. Jakarta has also the local television 
channels such as Jak TV, O Channel, Elshinta TV, and DAAI TV Indonesia. 
The city is home to the country's main pay television service. The wide 
range of cable channels available includes First Media and TelkomVision. 
Satellite television (DTH) has yet to gain mass acceptance in Jakarta. 
Prominent DTH entertainment services are Indovision, Okevision, Yes TV, 
Transvision, and Aora TV. Many TV stations are analogue PAL, but some are 
now converting to digital signals using DVB-T2 following a government plan 
to digital television migration.[62] There are seventy five radio stations 
in Jakarta, with fifty two broadcasting on the FM band, and twenty three 
radio stations broadcasting on the AM band. Jakarta generated about one-sixth 
of Indonesian GDP.[63] Jakarta's economy depends highly on service sectors, 
banking, trading, financial service, and manufacturing. Most of industries 
in Jakarta include electronics, automotive, chemicals, mechanical engineering 
and biomedical sciences manufacturing. The economic growth of Jakarta in 
2007 was 6.44% up from 5.95% the previous year, with the growth in the 
transportation and communication (15.25%), construction (7.81%) and trade, 
hotel and restaurant sectors (6.88%).[45] In 2007, GRDP (Gross Regional 
Domestic Product) was Rp. 566 trillion (around $US 56 billion). The largest 
contributions to GRDP were by finance, ownership and business services 
(29%); trade, hotel and restaurant sector (20%), and manufacturing industry 
sector (16%).[45] In 2007, the increase in per capita GRDP of DKI Jakarta 
inhabitants was 11.6% compared to the previous year[45] Both GRDP by at 
current market price and GRDP by at 2000 constant price in 2007 for the 
Municipality of Central Jakarta, which was Rp 146 million and Rp 81 million, 
was higher than other municipalities in Jakarta.[45] Last data update was 
on 2014 by end of year Jakarta have a GRDP (Gross Regional Domestic Product) 
was Rp. 1,761.407 trillion (around USD 148.53 billion) with economic growth 
above 6% per year since 2009. In 2014, per capita GRDP of DKI Jakarta inhabitants 
was Rp 174.87 million or USD 14,727. The cost of living in the city continues 
to rise. Land is expensive and rents are high. Industrial development and 
the construction of new housing are usually undertaken on the outskirts, 
while commerce and banking remain concentrated in the city centre.[64] 
Jakarta has a bustling luxury property market. The investment in the property 
sector, including offices, commercial buildings, new town development, 
and highrise apartments and hotels grew substantially. Knight Frank, a 
global real estate consultancy based in London, reported in 2014 that Jakarta 
offered the highest return on high-end property investment in the world 
in 2013, citing supply shortage and a sharply depreciated currency as reasons.[65] 
Jakarta has numerous shopping malls and markets. With a total of 550 hectares, 
Jakarta has the world's largest shopping mall floor area within a single 
city.[66] The annual "Jakarta Great Sale" is held every year in June and 
July to celebrate Jakarta's anniversary, with about 73 participating shopping 
centres in 2012.[67] Malls such as Plaza Indonesia, Grand Indonesia Shopping 
Town, Plaza Senayan, Senayan City and Pacific Place provide luxury brands, 
while Mall Taman Anggrek, Pondok Indah Mall, Mal Kelapa Gading, Central 
Park Jakarta and Ciputra World Jakarta have high-street brands such as 
Topshop, Uniqlo and Zara.[68] Department stores in Senayan City, Supermall 
Karawaci and Lippo Mall Kemang Village use the Debenhams brand under licence,[69] 
while the Japanese Sogo department store has about seven stores in various 
shopping malls in the city.[70] Seibu flagship store is located in Grand 
Indonesia Shopping Town, and French luxury department store, Galeries Lafayette 
opened its doors for the first time in South East Asia in Pacific Place. 
Internationally known luxury brands such as Louis Vuitton, Bulgari, Chanel, 
Gucci, Christian Louboutin, Balenciaga, and Giorgio Armani can be found 
in Jakarta's luxury shopping malls. The Satrio-Casablanca corridor, 3.5-kilometre 
street is a new shopping belt in Jakarta.[71] Many multistorey shopping 
centres are located here, such as Kuningan City, Mal Ambassador, Kota Kasablanka, 
and Lotte Shopping Avenue. Traditional markets include Blok M, Tanah Abang, 
Senen, Pasar Baru, Glodok, Mangga Dua, Cempaka Mas, and Jatinegara. In 
Jakarta there are also markets that sell specific collectable items, such 
as antique goods in Surabaya Street and gemstones in Rawabening Market. 
A structured road network had been developed in the early 19th century 
as a part of the Java Great Post Road by former Governor-General Daendels, 
which connects most major cities throughout Java. During the following 
decades, the road network was expanded to a great extent, although it could 
not keep up with the rapidly increasing numbers of motorised vehicles, 
resulting in highly congested traffic. A notable feature of Jakarta's present 
road system is the toll road network. Composed of an inner and outer ring 
road and five toll roads radiating outwards, the network provides inner 
as well as outer city connections. The last phase of outer ring road is 
under construction, but it is largely in use. Six elevated toll roads are 
in tender progress. The five radiating toll roads are the: Throughout the 
years, several attempts have been made to reduce traffic congestion on 
Jakarta's main arteries. Implemented solutions include a 'three-in-one' 
rush-hour law, during which cars with fewer than three passengers are prohibited 
from driving on the main avenues. Another example is the ban on trucks 
passing main avenues during the day.[72] Two private companies, PALYJA 
and Aetra, provide piped water supply in the western and eastern half of 
Jakarta respectively under 25-year concession contracts signed in 1998. 
A public asset holding company called PAM Jaya owns the infrastructure. 
80% of the water distributed in Jakarta comes through the West Tarum Canal 
system from Jatiluhur reservoir on the Citarum River 70 km (43 mi) southeast 
of the city. Water supply had been privatised by government of then President 
Suharto in 1998 to the French company Suez Environnement and the British 
company Thames Water International. Both foreign companies subsequently 
sold their concessions to Indonesian companies. Customer growth in the 
7 first years of the concessions had been lower than before, despite substantial 
inflation-adjusted tariff increases during this period. In 2005 tariffs 
were frozen, leading the private water companies to cut down on investments. 
According to PALYJA in its western half of the concession the service coverage 
ratio increased substantially from 34% in 1998 to 59% in 2007 and 65% in 
2010.[73] According to data by the Jakarta Water Supply Regulatory Body, 
access in the eastern half of the city served by PTJ increased from about 
57% in 1998 to about 67% in 2004, but stagnated after that.[74] However, 
other sources cite much lower access figures for piped water supply to 
houses, excluding access provided through public hydrants: One study estimated 
access as low as 25% in 2005,[75] while another source estimates it to 
be as low as 18.5% in 2011.[76] Those without access to piped water supply 
get water mostly from wells that are often salty and polluted with bacteria. 
Jakarta has architecturally significant buildings in a wide range of styles 
spanning distinct historical and cultural periods. Architectural styles 
reflect Malay, Javanese, Arabic, Chinese and Dutch influences.[77] The 
external influence gives a role in forming the architecture of the Betawi 
house. The houses were built of nangka wood (Artocarpus integrifolia) and 
comprised three rooms. The shape of the roof is reminiscent of the traditional 
Javanese joglo.[22] Colonial buildings and structures in Jakarta include 
those that were constructed during the Dutch colonial period of Indonesia. 
The dominant styles of the Dutch colonial period can be divided into three 
periods: the Dutch Golden Age (17th to late 18th century), the transitional 
style period (late 18th century – 19th century), and Dutch modernism (20th 
century). Dutch colonial architecture in Jakarta is apparent in buildings 
such as houses or villas, churches, civic buildings, and offices, mostly 
concentrated in the Jakarta Old Town and Central Jakarta. Architects such 
as J.C. Schultze and Eduard Cuypers designed some significant buildings 
in Jakarta. Works of Schultze includes Jakarta Art Building, the Indonesia 
Supreme Court Building and Ministry of Finance Building, while Cuypers 
designed Bank Indonesia Museum and Bank Mandiri Museum. At the early 20th 
century, most of the buildings in the Jakarta were built in Neo Renaissance 
style of Europe. By the 1920s, the architectural taste have begun to shift 
in favor of rationalism and modernist movement, particularly there was 
increasing art deco architecture. The elite suburbs Menteng, developed 
during the 1910s, was the city's first attempt at creating an ideal and 
healthy housing area for the middle class. The original houses had a longitudinal 
organization of space, as well as overhanging eaves, large windows and 
open ventilation, all practical features for a tropical climate with a 
hint of modern art deco.[78] It was developed by the private real estate 
company N.V. de Bouwploeg, established by P.A.J. Moojen. After independence, 
the process of nation building in Indonesia and demolishing the memory 
of Dutch colonialism was as important as the symbolic building of arterials, 
monuments, government buildings during the Sukarno era. The National Monument 
in Jakarta, designed by Sukarno, is Indonesia's beacon nationalism. In 
the early 1960s, Jakarta with Soviet Union funding providing infrastructure 
development for highways and super-scale cultural monuments as well as 
Senayan Sports Stadium. The parliament building features a hyperbolic shaped 
roof reminiscent of German rationalist and Corbusian design concepts.[79] 
In 1996, Wisma 46 soars to height of 262 metres with forty eight stories 
and its nib shaped top celebrates technology and symbolizes stereoscopy. 
The urban construction booms have continued in the 21st century and are 
shaping skylines in Jakarta. According to CTBUH and Emporis, there are 
88 skyscrapers that reaches or exceeds the height of 150 metres in Jakarta, 
which puts the city at the top 10 of world rankings.[80] It has more buildings 
taller than 500 feet (150 m) than any other Southeast Asia's cities as 
well as southern hemisphere. Since 1950, Jakarta has attracted people from 
all parts of Java and other Indonesian islands. The flood of migrants came 
to Jakarta for economic reasons as Jakarta offered the hope of employment. 
The 1961 census showed only 51% of the city's population was actually born 
in Jakarta.[81] Between 1961 and 1980, the population of Jakarta doubled 
and during the period 1980-1990, the city's population grew annually by 
3.7%.[82] The 2010 census counted some 9.58 million people, well above 
all government estimates.[83] According to the Government's Jakarta in 
Figures document, the population stood at 10,187,595 in 2011 and 9,761,407 
in 2012.[84] As per 2014, the population stood at 10,075,310 people.[5] 
The area of DKI Jakarta is 664 km2, suggesting a population density of 
15,174 people/km2 as the ninth largest urban population density in the 
world.[85] Inwards immigration tended to negate the effect of family planning 
programs.[45] The population has risen from 4.5 million in 1970 doubled 
to 9.5 million in 2010, counting only its legal residents.[citation needed] 
While the population of Greater Jakarta (Jabodetabek Region) has risen 
from 8.2 million in 1970 jump to 28.5 million in 2010.[86] As per 2014, 
the population of Greater Jakarta was 30,326,103, accounts for 11% of Indonesia's 
population.[87] The sex ratio was 102.8 (males per 100 females) in 2010[88] 
and 101.3 in 2014.[5] * 2010 Population census Jakarta is pluralistic and 
religiously diverse. The city's population in 2000 was 35.16% Javanese, 
27.65% Betawi, and 15.27% Sundanese. Betawi people are a creole ethnic 
group that came from various parts of Indonesia and intermarriage with 
Chinese, Arabs, and Europeans.[91] Nowadays, most Betawi live in the fringe 
area of Jakarta and there is hardly any Betawi dominated area in central 
Jakarta.[92] There has been a significant Chinese community in Jakarta 
for many centuries. Jakarta is home to the largest population of Chinese 
on Java island. The Chinese in Jakarta traditionally reside around old 
urban areas, such as Pinangsia, Pluit and Glodok (Jakarta Chinatown) areas. 
They also can be found in old chinatowns of Senen and Jatinegara. Officially, 
they make up 5.53% of the Jakarta population, although this number may 
be under-reported.[93] The Sumatran people of the city is very diverse. 
According to 2010 Census, there were roughly 346,000 Batak, 305,000 Minangkabau 
and 155,000 Malays. The Batak and Minangkabau living spread throughout 
the city. The Batak ethnic group has increased in ranking, from eighth 
in 1930 to fifth in 2000. Toba Batak is the largest sub-ethnic Batak in 
Jakarta.[94] Beside Chinese, Minangkabau people also as merchants, peddlers, 
and artisans, in addition to as white collar, doctor, teacher, and journalist.[95][96] 
As of 2010[update] Census the population of Jakarta was 85.36% Muslim, 
7.53% Protestant, 3.30% Buddhist, 3.15% Roman Catholic, 0.21% Hindu, and 
0.06% Confucianist. The majority of Jakartan are Sunni Muslims. Most of 
pesantren in Jakarta are affiliated with the traditionalist Nahdlatul Ulama 
organizations.[97] The modernist organizations mostly catered to a socioeconomic 
class of educated urban elites and merchant traders. They gave priority 
to education, social welfare programs and religious propagation activities.[98] 
Many of Islamic organizations headquarter in Jakarta, such as Nahdlatul 
Ulama, Indonesian Ulema Council, Muhammadiyah, Jaringan Islam Liberal, 
and Front Pembela Islam. There are significant religious minorities, notably 
Christian and Buddhist. Roman Catholics have a Metropolitan see there, 
for the Archdiocese of Jakarta, whose province including two suffragans 
covers Western Java. With 28 million people in the metropolitan area, nearly 
10 million vehicles in daily use, and limited rapid transit system[99] 
Jakarta is strained by transportation problems.[100] The city suffers a 
lack of urban public transport services due to prioritised development 
of road networks, which were mostly designed to accommodate private vehicles.[101] 
Most trips, however, are undertaken by non-motorized transportation (particularly 
walking) and numerous modes of public or demand-responsive transportation 
services.[102] [103] Long-distance railways and local tram services were 
first introduced during the Dutch colonial era. While the trams were replaced 
with buses in the post-colonial era, long-distance railways continued to 
connect the city to its neighbouring regions as well as cities throughout 
Java. The surrounding cities of Jakarta are served by KRL Jabodetabek, 
a commuter rail system which serves commuters both in and around Jakarta. 
The major rail stations are Gambir, Jakarta Kota, Jatinegara, Pasar Senen, 
Manggarai, and Tanah Abang. During rush hours, the number of passengers 
greatly exceeds the system's capacity, and crowding is common. Soekarno–Hatta 
International Airport (CGK) is the main airport serving the Greater Jakarta 
area. The airport is named after the first President of Indonesia, Soekarno, 
and the first vice-president, Mohammad Hatta. The airport is often called 
Cengkareng airport or Soetta by Indonesians. The airport's IATA code, CGK, 
originates from the name of the Cengkareng locality, Tangerang, Banten, 
although the location of this airport is located outside of the city, it 
is used as a gate out by the Jakartans and citizen of the surrounding areas, 
therefore at the main gate of the airport, there is an inscription "Jakarta 
Airports".[104] Soekarno–Hatta International Airport is the 18th busiest 
airport in the world, serving 54,053,905 passengers, according to Airports 
Council International.[105] Today the airport is running over capacity. 
After T3 Soekarno-Hatta Airport expansion will be finished in May 2016, 
the total capacity of three terminals become 43 million passengers a year. 
T1 and T2 also will be revitalised, so all the three terminals finally 
will accommodate 67 million passengers a year.[106] A second airport, Halim 
Perdanakusuma Airport (HLP) serves domestic flight of low cost airline, 
private and VIP/presidential flights. Other airports in the Jakarta metropolitan 
area include Pondok Cabe Airport and an airfield on Pulau Panjang, part 
of the Thousand Island archipelago (Kepulauan Seribu). Due to the city's 
acute gridlock, the Jakarta administration will implement Electronic Road 
Pricing (ERP) in 10 districts: Tanah Abang, Menteng, Setiabudi, Tebet, 
Matraman, Senen, Gambir, Tambora, Sawah Besar and Taman Sari. The projects 
will initiate once approved by the Finance Ministry.[107] The ERP was planned 
to be implemented in the three-in-one zone and along Jl. Rasuna Said in 
Kuningan by the first quarter of 2014, although by September 2016 the plan 
has not started. Vehicles passing through the ERP areas will be charged 
Rp 21,072.[108] The Kopaja and MetroMini economy minibus systems also provide 
important services for Jakarta commuters with numerous routes throughout 
the city. Since January 2013, Jakarta Government allow some Kopaja AC bus 
to enter TransJakarta bus lanes. For the future, Metromini AC bus it is 
also possible to enter TransJakarta bus lanes to enhance integrated bus 
rapid transit system. In 1966, an estimated 160 thousand pedicabs (becak) 
operated in the city; as much as 15% of Jakarta's total workforce was engaged 
in becak driving. In 1971, becak were banned from major roads, and shortly 
thereafter the government attempted a total ban, which substantially reduced 
their numbers but did not eliminate them. A campaign to eliminate them 
succeeded in 1990 and 1991, but during the economic crisis of 1998, some 
returned amid less effective government attempts to control them.[109] 
"Auto rickshaws", called bajaj, provide local transportation in the back 
streets of some parts of the city. From the early 1940s to 1991 they were 
a common form of local transportation in the city. Although ojeks are not 
an official form of public transport, they can be found throughout Indonesia 
and in Jakarta. They are especially useful when navigating crowded urban 
roads, narrow alleyways, heavy traffic and cramped locations that larger 
vehicles cannot reach. The TransJakarta bus rapid transit service (known 
as Busway) was developed in the context of development reforms (or reformasi) 
and used Bogota's TransMilenio system as a model.[110] Jakarta's first 
busway line, from Blok M to Jakarta Kota opened in January 2004 and as 
of 14 February 2013, twelve out of fifteen corridors are in use. TransJakarta 
has the world's longest bus rapid transit routes (172 km in length) and 
has more than 1100 buses in operation. KRL Jabodetabek or commonly known 
as Commuterline is a commuter rail system which serves commuters in Jakarta, 
Bogor, Depok, Tangerang, South Tangerang, and Bekasi. The commuter system 
was started in 2000.[111] The number of passengers in 2014 reached 208 
million, rising from 158 million in the previous year.[112] KRL Jabotabek 
serves all municipalities in Jakarta excluding the Thousand Islands, as 
well as all neighboring cities and regencies. Currently KRL Jabotabek is 
the only rail-based transit system in Jakarta, as the mass rapid transit 
and light rail transit are still under construction. After a long planning 
process by the government regarding the development of a mass rapid transit 
system in Indonesia's capital, the Jakarta Mass Rapid Transit infrastructure 
is currently under construction, with a north–south line between Kota and 
Lebak Bulus; and an east–west line, which will connect to the north–south 
line at Sawah Besar Station. The Jakarta MRT will be a combination of subways 
and elevated rails. Preparation work started in April 2012,[113] and groundbreaking 
was done in October 2013, with the first, 15.2 km-long line between Hotel 
Indonesia and Lebak Bulus scheduled to be operational by 2018, and the 
north–south line MRT network is scheduled to be operational by 2020. The 
total length of the network when complete will be approximately 110.8 km.[114][115] 
The Jakarta city government decided on a rail-based system because of its 
ability to carry large numbers of people quickly and cheaply.[116] As of 
2016, the mass rapid transit system has an investment of nearly US $1.7 
billion to ease the capital’s traffic issue in the coming years, including 
the construction of a subway.[117] Previously there had been plans to build 
a monorail system and part of it was already under construction, but the 
project stalled in 2004 due to lack of funding. The monorail project was 
relaunched in 2013 and the groundbreaking was done in October 2013.[118] 
However the project cancelled in January 2015, due to disagreements between 
the Jakarta administration and PT Jakarta Monorail over the monorail's 
route.[119] By mid 2015, this project is finally abandoned by Jakarta Government 
and being replaced by light rail transit system. The light rail transit 
(LRT) project was launched to replace the previously abandoned monorail 
project.[120] Jakarta Light Rail Transit groundbreaking ceremony was held 
on 9 September 2015, with the first phase of the construction will connect 
Cibubur in East Jakarta with Dukuh Atas in downtown Central Jakarta, passing 
through Cawang intersection. This phase will be 42.1 kilometres long, which 
include 18 stations, and expected to be operated by the first half of 2018, 
prior to the 2018 Asian Games.[121] On 6 June 2007, the city administration 
introduced the Waterway (officially Angkutan Sungai), a new river boat 
service along the Ciliwung River.[100][122] However, because of the large 
amount of floating garbage which kept jamming the propeller, it is no longer 
in service. The varying water levels during the dry and wet seasons were 
also a contributing factor to the close-down. Jakarta's main seaport Tanjung 
Priok serves many ferry connections to different parts of Indonesia. Port 
of Tanjung Priok is Indonesia's busiest port, and the 21st busiest port 
in the world in 2013, handling over 6.59 million TEUs.[123] To boost the 
port capacity, two-phase "New Tanjung Priok" extension project is currently 
ongoing. When fully operational in 2023, it will triple existing annual 
capacity. The port is also an important employer in the area, with more 
than 18,000 employees who provide services to more than 18,000 ships every 
year. The Port of Tanjung Priok has 20 terminals: general cargo, multipurpose 
terminal, scraps terminal, passenger terminal, dry bulk terminal, liquid 
bulk terminal, oil terminal, chemicals terminal and three container terminals, 
76 berths, a quay length of 16,853 metres, a total storage area of 661,822 
m2 and a storage capacity of 401,468 tonnes.[124] In December 2011, Muara 
Angke Port was renovated for Rp 130 billion ($14.4 million) in a 3 hectare 
area. Muara Angke Port would then be used as a public port to Thousand 
Islands (Indonesia), while Marina Ancol Port would be used as a tourist 
port.[125] Most of the visitors attracted to Jakarta are domestic tourists 
from all over Indonesia. As the gateway of Indonesia, Jakarta often serves 
as the stop-over for foreign visitors on their way to Indonesian popular 
tourist destinations such as Bali and Yogyakarta. Other than attracted 
to monuments, landmarks, and museums around Merdeka square and Jakarta 
Old Town, tourist attractions include Taman Mini Indonesia Indah, Ragunan 
Zoo, Sunda Kelapa old port and the Ancol Dreamland complex on Jakarta Bay, 
including Dunia Fantasi (Fantasy World) theme park, Sea World, Atlantis 
Water Adventure, and Gelanggang Samudra. Tourism is contributing a growing 
amount of income to the city. In 2012, the tourism sector contributed 2.6 
trillion rupiah (US$268.5 million) to the city's total direct income of 
17.83 trillion rupiah, a 17.9 per cent increase over 2011. Tourism stakeholders 
are expecting greater marketing of the Jakarta as a tourism destination.[126] 
In February 2014, the Jakarta Government started providing double-decker 
bus tours that offers sightseeing in Central Jakarta. The buses' route 
covers tourist attractions, such as Monas, Istiqlal Mosque, the Cathedral, 
National Museum, Sarinah, and Plaza Indonesia, as well as Grand Indonesia 
shopping centres.[127] Most of Jakarta's landmarks, monuments and statues 
were built during the Sukarno era beginning in the 1960s, then completed 
in the Suharto era, while some originated in the colonial Dutch East Indies 
period. The most famous Jakarta's landmark that become the symbol of the 
city is the 132 m (433 ft) tall obelisk of National Monument (Monumen Nasional 
or Monas) right in the centre of Merdeka Square, Jakarta's Central Park. 
On its southwest corner stands a Mahabharata themed Arjuna Wijaya chariot 
statue and fountain. Further south through Jalan Thamrin, the main avenue 
of Jakarta, the Selamat Datang monument stands on the fountain in the centre 
of Hotel Indonesia roundabout. Other landmarks include the Istiqlal Mosque, 
the Jakarta Cathedral and Immanuel Church. The former Batavia Stadhuis 
in Jakarta Old Town is also the city's landmark. The Wisma 46 building 
in Central Jakarta is currently the second tallest building in Indonesia. 
Some of statues and monuments in Jakarta are nationalist, such as the West 
Irian Liberation monument and Dirgantara statue. Several Indonesian national 
heroes are commemorated in statues, such as Diponegoro and Kartini statues 
in Merdeka Square, Sudirman and Thamrin statues located in each respectable 
avenues, also Sukarno and Hatta statues in Proclamation Monument also on 
the entrance of Soekarno–Hatta International Airport. In June 2011, Jakarta 
had only 10.5% green open space (Ruang Terbuka Hijau) and will be added 
to 13.94% public green open space. Public parks are included in public 
green open space. By 2030, the administration also hope there are 16% private 
green open space.[128] Jakarta was host of the 1962 Asian Games[132] and 
will host the upcoming 2018 Asian Games, co-hosted by Palembang.[133] Jakarta 
also hosted the regional-scale Southeast Asian Games in 1979, 1987, 1997, 
and 2011 where it serves as supporting city for Palembang. Gelora Bung 
Karno Stadium, located in Central Jakarta, hosted the group stage, quarterfinal 
and final of 2007 AFC Asian Cup along with Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam.[134] 
Jakarta's most popular home football club is Persija, which plays its matches 
in their home stadium at Bung Karno Stadium. The home match of Persija 
often draws its large fanbase - The Jak, usually clad in Persija's typical 
orange kit – to watch the match in the main stadium. The large number of 
spectators flocking to the main stadium usually worsen the traffic congestion 
in Jakarta. Another football team in Jakarta is Persitara who compete in 
Liga Indonesia Premier Division and play its games in Kamal Muara Stadium. 
Kamal, North Jakarta. The biggest stadium in Jakarta is Gelora Bung Karno 
Stadium, with a capacity of 88,083 seats.[135] The Senayan sports complex 
has several sport venues, including the Bung Karno football stadium, Madya 
Stadium, Istora Senayan, aquatic arena, baseball field, basketball court, 
badminton court, a shooting range, several indoor and outdoor tennis court 
and a golf driving range. The Senayan complex was built in 1959 to accommodate 
the Asian Games in 1962. For basketball, the Kelapa Gading Sport Mall in 
Kelapa Gading, North Jakarta, with a capacity of 7,000 seats, is the home 
arena of the Indonesian national basketball team. The Jakarta Car-free 
Days are held weekly on Sunday on the main avenues of the city, Jalan Sudirman 
and Jalan Thamrin, from 6 am to 11 am. The briefer Car-Free Day which lasts 
from only 6 am to 9 am is held on every other Sunday. The event invites 
local pedestrians to do sports and exercise and have their activities on 
the streets that are normally full of cars and traffic. Along the road 
from the Senayan traffic circle on Jalan Sudirman, South Jakarta, to the 
"Selamat Datang" Monument at the Hotel Indonesia traffic circle on Jalan 
Thamrin, all the way north to the National Monument in Central Jakarta, 
cars are cleared out for pedestrians. Morning gymnastics, calisthenics 
and aerobic exercises, futsal games, jogging, bicycling, skateboarding, 
badminton, karate, on-street library, and musical performances take over 
the roads and the main parks in Jakarta.[136] Jakarta Marathon is said 
to be the "biggest running event of Indonesia". It is recognised by AIMS 
and IAAF. First established in 2013 to promote Jakarta as sports tourism 
city. In 2015 edition of marathon, more than 15,000 runners from 53 countries 
were participated.[137][138][139][140][141] Jakarta is home to a number 
of universities, of which the University of Indonesia (UI) is the largest 
and oldest tertiary-level educational institution in Indonesia. It is a 
public institution with campuses in Salemba (central Jakarta) and in Depok 
to the south of Jakarta.[142] Aside from the University of Indonesia, the 
three other public universities in Jakarta are: Syarif Hidayatullah State 
Islamic University Jakarta, the State University of Jakarta (UNJ) and the 
University of Pembangunan Nasional "Veteran" Jakarta (UPN "Veteran" Jakarta). 
Some major private universities in Jakarta are: Trisakti University, Mercu 
Buana University, Tarumanagara University, Atma Jaya University, Pelita 
Harapan University, Bina Nusantara University, and Pancasila University. 
STOVIA (School tot Opleiding van Indische Artsen) was the first high school 
in Jakarta, established in 1851.[143] As the largest city and the capital, 
Jakarta houses many students from around Indonesia, many of whom reside 
in dormitories or home-stay residences. For basic education, there are 
a variety of primary and secondary schools, tagged with public (national), 
private (national and bi-lingual national plus) and international schools. 
Four of the major international schools located in Jakarta are the Gandhi 
Memorial International School, IPEKA International Christian School, Jakarta 
Intercultural School and the British School Jakarta. Other international 
schools include the Jakarta International Korean School, Bina Bangsa School, 
Jakarta International Multicultural School,[144] Australian International 
School,[145] New Zealand International School,[146] Singapore International 
School, and Sekolah Pelita Harapan.[147] As the capital city of Indonesia, 
Jakarta host numbers of embassies of foreign countries that has established 
diplomatic relations with Indonesia. Jakarta is also serves as the seat 
of Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Secretariat; numbers 
of foreign countries has appointed their embassies also serving as the 
representative and mission for ASEAN, thus making Jakarta as the diplomatic 
capital of ASEAN.[148] Jakarta is also a member of the Asian Network of 
Major Cities 21 and the C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group. Jakarta signed 
sister city agreements with other cities, one of them is Casablanca, Morocco's 
largest city, that have signed sister city agreement on 21 September 1990. 
To promote friendship between two cities, Jalan Casablanca, a main avenue 
famous for its shopping and business centres in South Jakarta, was named 
after Jakarta's Moroccan sister city. Currently there is no street in Casablanca 
named after Jakarta, however on the other hand in Rabat, Morocco's capital 
city, an avenue was named after Sukarno, Indonesia's first president, to 
commemorate his visit in 1960 also as a token of friendship.[149] Also 
within sister cities cooperation, Jakarta has established partnership with 
Rotterdam of the Netherlands, especially on integrated urban water management, 
including capacity building and knowledge exchange.[150] This cooperation 
is mainly because Jakarta and Rotterdam are dealing with similar problems; 
both cities lies in low-lying flat plain prone of flooding. Plus some of 
their areas lies below sea level, making an urban drainage system involving 
canals, dams and pumps is vital for both city. Jakarta seeks to learn from 
Rotterdam's expertise and experiences on water management. 1 Tokyo-Yokohama 
2 Jakarta 3 Shanghai 4 Karachi 5 Delhi   6 Seoul-Incheon   7 Mexico City 
  8 Beijing   9 Lagos   10 São Paulo 11 Mumbai 12 New York 13 Osaka 14 
Dhaka 15 Kolkata 16 Tehran 17 Istanbul 18 London 19 Los Angeles 20 Buenos 
