Coordinates: 40°42′13″N 73°47′57″W﻿ / ﻿40.703740°N 73.799138°W﻿ / 40.703740; 
-73.799138 Jamaica is a middle-class neighborhood in the New York City 
borough of Queens. The neighborhood is part of Queens Community Board 12, 
which also includes Hollis, St. Albans, Springfield Gardens, Baisley Pond 
Park, Rochdale Village, and South Jamaica.[4] Jamaica is patrolled by the 
NYPD's 103rd, 113th & 105th Precincts.[5] It was settled under Dutch rule 
in 1656 in New Netherland as Rustdorp.[6][7] Under British rule, Jamaica 
became the center of the "Town of Jamaica". Jamaica was the county seat 
of Queens County from the formation of the county in 1683 until March 7, 
1788, when the town was reorganized by the state government and the county 
seat was moved to Mineola (now part of Nassau County). In 1814, Jamaica 
became the first incorporated village on Long Island. When Queens was incorporated 
into the City of Greater New York in 1898, both the Town of Jamaica and 
the Village of Jamaica were dissolved, but the neighborhood of Jamaica 
regained its role as county seat. Today, some locals group Jamaica's surrounding 
neighborhoods into an unofficial Greater Jamaica, roughly corresponding 
to the former Town of Jamaica, including Richmond Hill, Woodhaven, St. 
Albans, Rosedale, Springfield Gardens, Hollis, Laurelton, Cambria Heights, 
Queens Village, Howard Beach and Ozone Park.[8] Jamaica is the location 
of several government buildings including Queens Civil Court, the civil 
branch of the Queens County Supreme Court, the Queens County Family Court 
and the Joseph P. Addabbo Federal Building, home to the Social Security 
Administration's Northeastern Program Service Center.[9] The U.S. Food 
and Drug Administration's Northeast Regional Laboratory as well as the 
New York District Office are also located in Jamaica. Jamaica Center, the 
area around Jamaica Avenue and 165th Street, is a major commercial center, 
as well as the home of the Central Library of the Queens Borough Public 
Library. The New York Racing Association, based at Aqueduct Racetrack in 
South Ozone Park, lists its official address as Jamaica (Central Jamaica 
once housed NYRA's Jamaica Racetrack, now the massive Rochdale Village 
housing development). John F. Kennedy International Airport and the hotels 
nearby also use Jamaica as their address. Although many current residents 
of the Jamaica neighborhood are immigrants from the country of the same 
name, the two names have different derivations. The name of the neighborhood 
derives from Yameco, a corruption of a word for "beaver" in the Lenape 
language spoken by the Native Americans who lived in the area at the time 
of first European contact. The "y" sound in English is spelled with a "j" 
in Dutch, the first Europeans to write about the area. This resulted in 
the eventual English pronunciation of "Jamaica" when read and repeated 
orally.[10] In the Caribbean, the Arawaks, people of the nation of Jamaica, 
named their land Xaymaca, which meant "land of wood and water".[11] Jamaica 
Avenue was an ancient trail for tribes from as far away as the Ohio River 
and the Great Lakes, coming to trade skins and furs for wampum.[12] It 
was in 1655 that the first settlers paid the Native Americans with two 
guns, a coat, and some powder and lead, for the land lying between the 
old trail and "Beaver Pond" (later Baisley Pond). Dutch Director-General 
Peter Stuyvesant dubbed the area Rustdorp ("rest-town") in granting the 
1656 land patent. The English took over in 1664 and made it part of the 
county of Yorkshire. In 1683, when the British divided the Province of 
New York into counties, Jamaica became the county seat of Queens County, 
one of the original counties of New York. Colonial Jamaica had a band of 
56 minutemen who played an active part in the Battle of Long Island, the 
outcome of which led to the occupation of the New York City area by British 
troops during most of the American Revolutionary War. In 1790, in William 
Warner's tavern. Rufus King, a signer of the United States Constitution, 
relocated here in 1805. He added to a modest 18th-century farmhouse, creating 
the manor which stands on the site today. King Manor was restored at the 
turn of the 21st century to its former glory, and houses King Manor Museum. 
By 1776, Jamaica had become a trading post for farmers and their produce. 
For more than a century, their horse-drawn carts plodded along Jamaica 
Avenue, then called King's Highway. The Jamaica Post Office opened September 
25, 1794, and was the only post office in the present-day Boroughs of Queens 
or Brooklyn before 1803.[13] Union Hall Academy for boys, and Union Hall 
Seminary for girls, were chartered in 1787.[14] The Academy eventually 
attracted students from all over the United States and the West Indies.[15] 
The public school system was started in 1813 with funds of $125. Jamaica 
Village, the first village on Long Island, was incorporated in 1814 with 
its boundaries being from the present-day Van Wyck Expressway (on the west) 
and Jamaica Avenue (on the north, later Hillside Avenue) to Farmers Boulevard 
(on the east) and Linden Boulevard (on the south) in what is now St. Albans.[16] 
By 1834, the Brooklyn and Jamaica Railroad company had completed a line 
to Jamaica. In 1850, the former Kings Highway (now Jamaica Avenue) became 
the Brooklyn and Jamaica Plank Road, complete with toll gate. In 1866, 
tracks were laid for a horsecar line, and 20 years later it was electrified, 
the first in the state. On January 1, 1898, Queens became part of the City 
of New York, and Jamaica became the county seat. The present Jamaica station 
of the Long Island Rail Road was completed in 1913, and the BMT Jamaica 
Line arrived in 1918, followed by the IND Queens Boulevard Line in 1936 
and the IND/BMT Archer Avenue Lines in 1988, the latter of which replaced 
the eastern portion of the Jamaica Line that was torn down in 1977–85. 
The 1920s and 1930s saw the building of the Valencia Theatre (now restored 
by the Tabernacle of Prayer), the "futuristic" Kurtz furniture store and 
the Roxanne Building. In the 1970s, it became the headquarters for the 
Islamic Society of North America. The many foreclosures and the high level 
of unemployment of the 2000s and early 2010s induced many black people 
to move from Jamaica to the South,[17] as part of the New Great Migration. 
A December 2012 junkyard fire required the help of 170 firemen to extinguish.[18] 
On October 23, 2014, the neighborhood was the site of a terrorist hatchet 
attack on two police officers of the New York City Police Department. The 
attacker was later killed by police.[19][20] The First Reformed Church, 
Grace Episcopal Church Complex, Jamaica Chamber of Commerce Building, Jamaica 
Savings Bank, King Manor, J. Kurtz and Sons Store Building, La Casina, 
Office of the Register, Prospect Cemetery, St. Monica's Church, Sidewalk 
Clock at 161-11 Jamaica Avenue, New York, NY, Trans World Airlines Flight 
Center, and United States Post Office are listed on the National Register 
of Historic Places.[21] Arabs African Americans Asian Indians Bangladeshis 
Brazilians Caribbeans Chinese (Fuzhounese) Filipinos Irish Italians Japanese 
Jews Koreans Puerto Ricans Russians Jamaica is large and has a diverse 
population. It is mostly African American, with sizable Hispanic, Asian, 
and White populations. While the corresponding figures represent a certain 
portion of Jamaica, official statistics differ by the area's numerous zip 
codes such as 11411, 11428, 11432, 11433, 11434, 11435, and 11436. The 
total population of Jamaica is estimated to be a bit over 200,000 with 
all neighborhoods taken into consideration. Jamaica was not always as diverse 
as it is today. Throughout the 19th to early 20th centuries, Jamaica was 
mainly populated with whites as new Irish immigrants settled around the 
places known today as Downtown and Baisley Pond Park. However, in the 1950s, 
what was later called white flight began and middle-income African Americans 
started taking their place. After the 1970s, as housing prices began to 
tumble, many Hispanic such as Salvadorans, Colombians, Dominicans, and 
West Indian immigrants moved in. These ethnic groups tended to stay more 
towards the Jamaica Avenue and South Jamaica areas. Yet it wasn't until 
the late 1990s and early 2000s that immigration from other countries became 
widespread. Gentrification and decrease in crime attracted many families 
toward Jamaica's safe havens. Hillside Avenue reflects this trend. Along 
150th to 161st streets, much of the stores and restaurants are of South 
American and Caribbean culture. Farther east is the rapidly growing East 
Indian community. Mainly spurred on by Jamaica Muslim Center, Bangladeshis 
have flocked to this area due to easy transit access and the numerous Bangladeshi 
stores and restaurants lining 167th and 168th Streets. Bangladeshis are 
the most rapidly growing ethnic group here; however, it is also an African-American 
commercial area. Many Sri Lankans also live in this area for similar reasons 
as the Bangladeshi community, evidenced in the numerous food and grocery 
establishments catering to the community along Hillside Avenue. As well 
as the large South Asian community thrives significant Filipino and African 
communities in Jamaica, along with the neighboring Filipino community in 
Queens Village and the historic, well established African-American community 
that exists in Jamaica. From 151st Street and into 164th Street, many groceries 
and restaurants pertain to the West Indies. Mainly of Guyanese and Trinidadian 
origin, these stores serve their respective population living in and around 
the Jamaica Center area. East from 167th Street to 171st Street, there 
are East Indian shops. Mainly invested by the ever growing Bangladeshi 
population, thousands of South Asians come here to shop for Bangladeshi 
goods. Also there are restaurants such as "Sagar", "Ambala", "Ghoroa", 
and countless more in the Bangladeshi stronghold here. Some people call 
this area another "Little South Asia" similar to that of Jackson Heights. 
Jamaica, Queens is another South Asian ethnic enclave popping up in NYC, 
as South Asian immigration and the NYC South Asian population has grown 
rapidly, as well as new South Asian enclaves. Economic development was 
long neglected. In the 1960s and 1970s, many big box retailers moved to 
suburban areas where business was more profitable. Departing retailers 
included brand name stores and movie theaters that once thrived in Jamaica's 
busiest areas. Macy's and the Valencia theater were the last companies 
to move out in 1969. The 1980s crack epidemic created even more hardship 
and crime. Prime real estate spaces were filled by hair salons and 99 cent 
stores. Furthermore, existing zoning patterns and inadequate infrastructure 
did not anticipate future development. Since then, the decrease of the 
crime rate has encouraged entrepreneurs who plan to invest in the area. 
The Greater Jamaica Development Corporation (GJDC), the local business 
improvement district, acquired valuable real estate for sale to national 
chains in order to expand neighborhood commerce. As well they have completed 
underway proposals by allocating funds and providing loans to potential 
investors who have already established something in the area. One Jamaica 
Center is a mixed-use commercial complex that was built in 2002 by The 
Mattone Group housing Old Navy, Bally Total Fitness, Walgreens, Subway, 
Dunkin' Donuts, a 15-screen multiplex theater and for a while a Gap. Banking 
has also made a strong revival as Bank of America, Sterling National Bank, 
Chase Bank, and Carver Federal Savings Bank have each created at least 
one branch along various major streets: Jamaica Avenue, Parsons Boulevard, 
Merrick Boulevard, and Sutphin Boulevard. A $75 million deal between the 
developers, the Mattone Group and Ceruzzi Enterprises, and Home Depot cleared 
the way for a new location at 168th St. and Archer Ave. All approvals were 
obtained within three months of the application dates. The most prominent 
piece of development has been the creation of the Jamaica Station, which 
was fully completed in 2003. It includes Sutphin Boulevard – Archer Avenue 
– JFK Airport subway station (E J Z trains), the LIRR, and the Airtrain 
JFK to John F. Kennedy International Airport; the latter remains the central 
figure for ongoing economic progress. With the growing number of riders 
each day passing through this station, the city is providing some major 
changes to the surrounding blocks of this massive hub of transport. Efforts 
have been made to follow the examples of major redevelopment occurring 
in Long Island City, Flushing, and Downtown Brooklyn. In 2005, the New 
York City Department of City Planning drafted a plan that would rezone 
368 blocks of Jamaica in order to stimulate new development, relieve traffic 
congestion, and shift upscale amenities away from low-density residential 
neighborhoods. The plan includes up-zoning the immediate areas around Jamaica 
Station to accommodate passengers traveling through the area. To improve 
infrastructure the New York City Department of Parks & Recreation has agreed 
to create more greenery and open spaces to allow pedestrians to enjoy the 
scenery. At the same time, the city has reserved the right to protect the 
suburban/residential charm of neighboring areas. Several blocks will be 
down-zoned to keep up with the existing neighborhood character. On September 
10, 2007, the City Council overwhelmingly approved the plan, providing 
for structures of up to 28 stories to be built around the main transit 
hub as well as residential buildings of up to 7 stories to be built on 
Hillside Avenue.[22] Several projects are in progress. The New York City 
Economic Development Corporation has issued an RFP for redevelopment of 
a 45,000 sq ft (4,200 m2) abandoned garage located at 168th Street and 
93rd Avenue. Plans are underway to convert this space into retail and parking 
spots. "TechnoMart Queens" was the first approved project. Located at Sutphin 
Blvd. and 94th Ave., Korean-based Prime Construction Corp., Greater Jamaica 
Development Corporation, and several other partners have signed a deal 
to create a 13-story mega-mall. 9 floors will be dedicated towards wholesale 
electronics, 3 floors to retail space for shopping, and it is estimated 
to contain parking for up to 800 cars. Groundbreaking on this site will 
initiate in late 2008 and is slated for completion by mid-2011. However, 
in Q3 2008, Technomart announced that it would not be moving forward with 
its plan to bring a retailer to the community.[23] According to real-estate 
listing service StreetEasy, Jamaica's real-estate prices are rising the 
fastest out of all localities in New York City. The community's median 
home prices rose 39% in 2015.[24] The median sales price for a small row 
house in 2015 was $330,000, and the median asking rent for a three-bedroom 
house in 2015 was $1,750.[24] Sutphin Boulevard has been described as "the 
next tourist hot spot."[25] Jamaica's proximity to the JFK AirTrain has 
stimulated the development of several hotels.[26] The Federal Aviation 
Administration Eastern Region has its offices in Jamaica.[27] Several businesses 
are at the distant John F. Kennedy International Airport. North American 
Airlines has its headquarters on the property of JFK.[28] In addition, 
Nippon Cargo Airlines maintains its New York City offices there.[29] When 
Tower Air existed, its headquarters were at the airport.[30][31] When Metro 
International Airways existed, its headquarters were at the airport.[32] 
Grupo TACA operates a Jamaica-area TACA Satellite at 149–16 Jamaica Avenue.[33] 
Jamaica Station is a central transfer point on the Long Island Rail Road 
(LIRR), which is headquartered in a building adjoining the station; all 
but one of the commuter railroad's lines (the exception being the Port 
Washington Branch) run through Jamaica. The New York City Subway's IND 
Queens Boulevard Line (E F trains) terminates at 179th Street station, 
at the foot of Jamaica Estates, a neighborhood of mansions east of Jamaica's 
central business district. The Archer Avenue Lines, which opened in 1988 
(E J Z trains), terminate at Jamaica Center – Parsons/Archer station, but 
also serve Sutphin Boulevard – Archer Avenue – JFK Airport station. Jamaica 
Center is not just a transit hub; it is also the name of a business and 
government center that includes a federal office building, and a shopping 
mall and theater multiplex (One Jamaica Center), and is adjacent to various 
other businesses and agencies, such as the main forensic laboratory facility 
for the New York City Police Department. Jamaica's bus network provides 
extensive service across eastern Queens, as well as to destinations as 
distant as Hicksville in Nassau County, the Bronx, the Rockaways, and Midtown 
Manhattan. Nearly all bus lines serving Jamaica terminate there; most do 
so at the 165th Street Bus Terminal or the Jamaica Center subway station, 
except the Q46 bus which operates along Union Turnpike which serves as 
the northern border of Jamaica. Greater Jamaica, a large, sprawling neighborhood, 
is also home to John F. Kennedy International Airport—one of the busiest 
international airports in the United States and the world— public transportation 
passengers are connected to airline terminals by AirTrain JFK, which operates 
as both an airport terminal circulator and rail connection to central Jamaica 
at the integrated LIRR and bi-level subway station located at Sutphin Blvd 
and Archer Avenue. Major streets include Archer Avenue, Hillside Avenue, 
Jamaica Avenue, Liberty Avenue, Merrick Boulevard, Parsons Boulevard, Guy 
R. Brewer Boulevard (formerly known as New York Boulevard but renamed for 
a local political leader in 1982), Sutphin Boulevard, and Union Turnpike, 
as well as the Van Wyck Expressway (I-678) and the Grand Central Parkway. 
Jamaica Avenue is Jamaica's busiest thoroughfare. It begins at Broadway 
Junction in Brooklyn, near the boundary of the East New York neighborhood. 
The Avenue enters Jamaica east of the Van Wyck Expressway, and passes the 
Joseph Addabbo Social Security Administration Building, courthouses and 
the main building of the Queens Library, along with many discount stores. 
The 200-year-old King Manor Museum, once home to Rufus King, a founding 
father of the United States, is located at the corner of 153rd St. and 
Jamaica Ave. It includes a 2-story museum with over an acre of land and 
a public park. Directly across from the Museum is the Jamaica Performing 
Arts Center, part of the Jamaica Center for Arts & Learning, represents 
a long-sought adaptive reuse of the landmark, 150-year-old former Dutch 
Reformed Church. It was completed in 2007. Hillside Avenue is one of the 
main thoroughfares of Jamaica. It is served by the E F trains, from Sutphin 
Boulevard to its 179th Street terminus. Hillside Avenue runs east from 
Myrtle Avenue in Richmond Hill, along the length of Jamaica, into Queens 
Village, and finally, Nassau County. It is a wide six-lane street with 
numerous commercial activities. The Q43 bus runs its entire eastern length 
starting at Sutphin Boulevard to the city line. Hillside Avenue separates 
Jamaica from Briarwood, Jamaica Hills and Jamaica Estates on the southern 
boundary. Sutphin Boulevard is Jamaica's second busiest thoroughfare. It 
has two subway stations, as well as stations for the LIRR and the AirTrain 
JFK, and two Queens courthouses. It begins at Hillside Avenue and 147th 
Place in the north and works its way south and downhill connecting with 
Jamaica Avenue, Archer Avenue, Liberty Avenue, South Road, Linden Boulevard, 
and terminates at Rockaway Boulevard. At first it is a small four-lane 
street, but in the downtown area it provides six lanes. At 95th Avenue, 
it reemerges from the LIRR underpass and becomes a four-lane street to 
its southern endpoint. Union Turnpike travels through, and serving as the 
northern border between the towns of Flushing and Jamaica. Though both 
towns were absorbed into New York City in 1898, the division is evident 
today in the addresses. Buildings on the north side generally begin with 
a 113- ZIP code, indicating Flushing, and buildings to the south side begin 
with a 114- ZIP code, indicating Jamaica. Union Turnpike separates the 
northern boundaries of Briarwood, Jamaica Hills and Jamaica Estates from 
the southern boundaries of Flushing and Fresh Meadows. Several colleges 
and universities make their home in Jamaica proper or in its close vicinity, 
most notably: Jamaica's public schools are operated by the New York City 
Department of Education. Public high schools in Jamaica include: Public 
elementary and intermediate (junior high) schools in Jamaica include: Private 
schools in Jamaica include: The Catholic schools are administered by the 
Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn. From its 1975 founding to around 1980, 
the Japanese School of New York was located in Jamaica Estates,[35][36] 
near Jamaica.[37] The Central Library of the Queens Borough Public Library, 
the nation's highest-circulation public library system, is in Jamaica. 
The Baisley Park Branch and the South Jamaica Branch are also located in 
Jamaica. Neighboring areas are Jamaica Estates, Jamaica Hills, Holliswood, 
Bellerose, Briarwood, Cambria Heights, St. Albans, Hollis, Queens Village, 
South Ozone Park, Kew Gardens, Richmond Hill, Laurelton, Rosedale, Brookville, 
Rochdale, South Jamaica, Springfield Gardens, Hillcrest, Kew Gardens Hills, 
Fresh Meadows, Meadowmere Park, and Woodhaven. Notable current and former 
residents of Jamaica, with (B) denoting that the person was born there, 
