James Earl Jones (born January 17, 1931) is an American actor. His career 
has spanned more than 60 years, and he has been described as "one of America's 
most distinguished and versatile" actors[3] and "one of the greatest actors 
in American history."[4] Since his Broadway debut in 1957, Jones has won 
many awards, including a Tony Award and Golden Globe Award for his role 
in The Great White Hope. Jones has won three Emmy Awards, including two 
in the same year in 1991, and he also earned an Academy Award nomination 
for Best Actor in a Leading Role in the film version of The Great White 
Hope. He is also known for his voice roles as Darth Vader in the Star Wars 
film series and Mufasa in Disney's The Lion King as well as many other 
film, stage, and television roles. Jones has been said to possess "one 
of the best-known voices in show business, a stirring basso profundo that 
has lent gravel and gravitas to" his projects, including live-action acting, 
voice acting, and commercial voice-overs.[5][6] As a child Jones had a 
stutter. In his episode of Biography, he said he overcame the affliction 
through poetry, public speaking, and acting, although it lasted for several 
years. A pre-med major in college, he went on to serve in the United States 
Army during the Korean War before pursuing a career in acting. On November 
12, 2011, he received an Honorary Academy Award.[4] On Sunday, November 
9, 2015, Jones was honored to receive the Voice Arts Icon Awards.[7] James 
Earl Jones was born in Arkabutla, Mississippi on January 17, 1931,[8] son 
of Robert Earl Jones (1910–2006), an actor, boxer, butler, and chauffeur 
who left the family shortly after James Earl's birth, and his wife Ruth 
(Connolly) Jones, a teacher and maid.[9][10] Jones and his father reconciled 
many years later. Jones was raised by his maternal grandparents, farmers 
John Henry and Maggie Connolly.[11] His parents were both African-American, 
and he has said that he also has Irish and Native American ancestry.[12][13] 
Jones has described his grandmother, Maggie, as "the most racist person 
I have ever known", thus forcing him to develop his own independent thinking. 
His grandmother was of African-American, Cherokee and Choctaw ancestry.[14] 
At the age of five, Jones moved to his grandparents' farm in Jackson, Michigan. 
He found the transition to be traumatic, and developed a stutter so severe 
he refused to speak. When he moved to Brethren, Michigan, a teacher helped 
him overcome his stutter. He remained functionally mute for eight years, 
until he entered high school. He credits his English teacher, Donald Crouch, 
who discovered he had a gift for writing poetry, with helping him end his 
silence.[10] Crouch urged him to challenge his disinclination to speak.[15] 
"I was a stutterer. I couldn't talk. So my first year of school was my 
first mute year, and then those mute years continued until I got to high 
school."[16] After being educated at the Browning School for boys in his 
high school years and graduating from Brethren High School in Brethren, 
Michigan, Jones attended the University of Michigan where he was initially 
a pre-med major.[10] He joined the Reserve Officer Training Corps, and 
excelled. He felt comfortable within the structure of the military environment, 
and enjoyed the camaraderie of his fellow cadets in the Pershing Rifles 
Drill Team and Scabbard and Blade Honor Society.[17] During the course 
of his studies, Jones discovered he was not cut out to be a doctor. Instead 
he focused on drama at the University of Michigan School of Music, Theatre 
& Dance with the thought of doing something he enjoyed, before, he assumed, 
he would have to go off to fight in the Korean War. After four years of 
college, Jones graduated from the university in 1955.[18] With the war 
intensifying in Korea, Jones expected to be deployed as soon as he received 
his commission as a second lieutenant. As he waited for his orders, he 
worked as a part-time stage crew hand at the Ramsdell Theatre in Manistee, 
Michigan, where he had earlier performed. Jones was commissioned in mid 
1953 and reported to Fort Benning to attend Infantry Officers Basic Course. 
He then attended Ranger School and received his Ranger Tab (although he 
stated during an interview on the BBC's The One Show, screened on November 
11, 2009, that he "washed out" of Ranger training). He was initially to 
report to Fort Leonard Wood, but his unit was instead sent to establish 
a cold weather training command at the former Camp Hale near Leadville, 
Colorado. His battalion became a training unit in the rugged terrain of 
the Rocky Mountains. Jones was promoted to first lieutenant prior to his 
discharge.[19] He then moved to New York, where he studied at the American 
Theatre Wing, working as a janitor to support himself. Jones began his 
acting career at the Ramsdell Theatre in Manistee, Michigan. In 1953 he 
was a stage carpenter. During the 1955–57 seasons he was an actor and stage 
manager. He performed his first portrayal of Shakespeare’s Othello in this 
theater in 1955.[21] His early career also included an appearance in the 
ABC radio anthology series Theatre-Five.[22] Jones is an accomplished stage 
actor; he has won Tony awards in 1969 for The Great White Hope and in 1987 
for Fences. He has acted in many Shakespearean roles: Othello, King Lear, 
Oberon in A Midsummer Night's Dream, Abhorson in Measure for Measure, and 
Claudius in Hamlet. Jones played Lennie on Broadway in the 1974 Brooks 
Atkinson Theatre production of the adaptation of Steinbeck's novella, "Of 
Mice and Men", with Kevin Conway as George and Pamela Blair as Curley's 
Wife. He received Kennedy Center Honors in 2002. On April 7, 2005, James 
Earl Jones and Leslie Uggams headed the cast in an African-American Broadway 
revival version of On Golden Pond, directed by Leonard Foglia and produced 
by Jeffrey Finn.[10] In February 2008, he starred on Broadway as Big Daddy 
in a limited-run, all-African-American production of Tennessee Williams's 
Pulitzer Prize-winning drama Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, directed by Debbie 
Allen and mounted at the Broadhurst Theatre. In November 2009, James reprised 
the role of Big Daddy in Cat On A Hot Tin Roof at the Novello Theatre in 
London's West End. This production also stars Sanaa Lathan as Maggie, Phylicia 
Rashad as Big Mamma, and Adrian Lester as Brick. In October 2010, Jones 
returned to the Broadway stage in Alfred Uhry's Driving Miss Daisy along 
with Vanessa Redgrave at the Golden Theatre.[23] In November 2011, Jones 
starred in Driving Miss Daisy in London's West End, and on November 12 
received his honorary Oscar in front of the audience at the Wyndham's Theatre, 
which was presented to him by Ben Kingsley.[24] In March 2012, Jones played 
the role of President Art Hockstader in Gore Vidal's The Best Man on Broadway 
at the Schoenfeld Theatre. Earning Jones a Tony nomination for Best Performance 
in a Lead Role in a Play. The play also starred Angela Lansbury, John Larroquette 
(as candidate William Russell), Candice Bergen, Eric McCormack (as candidate 
Senator Joseph Cantwell), Jefferson Mays, Michael McKean and Kerry Butler, 
with direction by Michael Wilson.[25][26] In 2013, Jones starred opposite 
Vanessa Redgrave in a production of Much Ado About Nothing directed by 
Mark Rylance at The Old Vic, London.[27] In 2014, Jones played the role 
of Grandpa in the comedy "You Can't Take it With You" at the Longacre Theatre, 
Broadway. On September 23, 2015, Jones opened in a new revival of The Gin 
Game opposite Cicely Tyson, in the same venue where the play originally 
premiered (with Hume Cronyn and Jessica Tandy): the John Golden Theater. 
The play will have a limited run of 16 weeks.[28] His first film role was 
as a young and trim Lt. Lothar Zogg, the B-52 bombardier in Dr. Strangelove 
or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb in 1964. In 1967 Jones 
portrayed a surgeon and Haitian rebel leader in The Comedians. His first 
starring film role came with his portrayal of boxer Jack Jefferson in 1970's 
The Great White Hope. For his role, Jones was nominated Best Actor by the 
Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, making him the second African-American 
male performer (following Sidney Poitier) to receive a nomination.[10] 
In 1974, Jones co-starred with Diahann Carroll in the film Claudine, the 
story of a woman who raises her six children alone after two failed and 
one "almost" marriage. Jones also played the villain Thulsa Doom in Conan 
the Barbarian, "Few Clothes" Johnson in John Sayles' Matewan, the author 
Terence Mann in Field of Dreams, the feared neighbor Mr. Mertle in The 
Sandlot, King Jaffe Joffer in Coming to America, Reverend Stephen Kumalo 
in Cry, the Beloved Country, Raymond Lee Murdock in A Family Thing, and 
Vice Admiral James Greer in The Hunt for Red October, Patriot Games and 
Clear and Present Danger, among many other roles. Jones is also known as 
the voice of Darth Vader in the 1977 film Star Wars and its sequels The 
Empire Strikes Back (1980) and Return of the Jedi (1983). Darth Vader was 
portrayed in costume by David Prowse in the film trilogy, with Jones dubbing 
Vader's dialogue in postproduction because Prowse's strong West Country 
accent was deemed unsuitable for the role by George Lucas.[29] At his own 
request, Jones was uncredited for the original releases of the first two 
Star Wars films,[30] though he later would be credited for the first film 
in its 1997 "Special Edition" re-release.[31] As he explained in a 2008 
interview: When Linda Blair did the girl in The Exorcist, they hired Mercedes 
McCambridge to do the voice of the devil coming out of her. And there was 
controversy as to whether Mercedes should get credit. I was one who thought 
no, she was just special effects. So when it came to Darth Vader, I said, 
no, I'm just special effects. But it became so identified that by the third 
one, I thought, OK I'll let them put my name on it.[30] Although uncredited, 
Jones' voice is possibly heard as Vader at the conclusion of Star Wars: 
Episode III – Revenge of the Sith (2005). When specifically asked whether 
he had supplied the voice, possibly from a previous recording, Jones told 
Newsday: "You'd have to ask Lucas about that. I don't know."[30] His other 
voice roles include Mufasa in the 1994 Walt Disney Feature Animation film 
The Lion King and its direct-to-video sequel, The Lion King II: Simba's 
Pride. Archive recordings from the film would later be used for the English 
version of the 2006 video game Kingdom Hearts II, since Jones himself did 
not reprise the role. He also voiced the Emperor of the Night in Pinocchio 
and the Emperor of the Night and Ommadon in Flight of Dragons. In 1990, 
Jones performed voice work for The Simpsons first "Treehouse of Horror" 
Halloween special, in which he was the narrator for the Simpsons' version 
of Edgar Allan Poe's poem "The Raven". In 1992, Jones was often seen as 
the host on the video monitor at SeaWorld Orlando, in Florida, US.[citation 
needed] In 1996, he recited the classic baseball poem "Casey at the Bat" 
with the Cincinnati Pops Orchestra,[32] and in 2007 before a Philadelphia 
Phillies home game on June 1, 2007.[33] He also has done the CNN tagline, 
"This is CNN", as well as "This is CNN International", and the opening 
for CNN's morning show New Day. Jones was also a longtime spokesman for 
Bell Atlantic and later Verizon. The opening for NBC's coverage of the 
2000 and 2004 Summer Olympics; "the Big PI in the Sky" (God) in the computer 
game Under a Killing Moon; a Claymation film about The Creation; and several 
other guest spots on The Simpsons. Jones narrated all 27 books of the New 
Testament in the audiobook James Earl Jones Reads the Bible.[34] In 2014, 
Jones reprised his voice role of Darth Vader for an extended prologue featured 
on the ABC broadcast of the first episode of Star Wars Rebels.[35] He continued 
voicing Vader into season 2.[36] In 2015, Jones reprised his voice role 
of Mufasa in the television pilot movie The Lion Guard: Return of the Roar.[37] 
Jones will reprise his role of Darth Vader for the upcoming 2016 Star Wars 
Anthology film Rogue One.[38] Jones has the distinction of being the only 
actor to win two Emmys[39] in the same year, in 1991 as Best Actor for 
his role in Gabriel's Fire and as Best Supporting Actor for his work in 
Heat Wave.[3] Jones portrayed the older version of author Alex Haley, in 
the television mini-series Roots: The Next Generations;[10] the GDI's commanding 
general James Solomon in the live-action sequences of the video game Command 
& Conquer: Tiberian Sun; and widowed police officer Neb Langston in the 
television program Under One Roof, for which he received an Emmy nomination. 
He also appeared in television and radio advertising for Verizon Business 
DSL and Verizon Online DSL from Verizon Communications. Jones appeared 
in the 1963–64 television season in an episode of ABC's drama series about 
college life, Channing, starring Jason Evers and Henry Jones. He appeared 
on the soap opera Guiding Light. He portrayed Thad Green on "Mathnet," 
a parody of Dragnet that appeared in the PBS program Square One Television. 
In 1969, Jones participated in making test films for the children's education 
series Sesame Street; these shorts, combined with animated segments, were 
shown to groups of children to gauge the effectiveness of the then-groundbreaking 
Sesame Street format. As cited by production notes included in the DVD 
release Sesame Street: Old School 1969–1974, the short that had the greatest 
impact with test audiences was one showing bald-headed Jones counting slowly 
to ten. This and other segments featuring Jones were eventually aired as 
part of the Sesame Street series itself when it debuted later in 1969 and 
Jones is often cited as the first celebrity guest on that series, although 
a segment with Carol Burnett was the first to actually be broadcast.[10] 
He has played lead characters on television in three series. First, he 
appeared on the short-lived CBS police drama Paris, which aired during 
autumn 1979. That show was notable as the first program on which Steven 
Bochco served as executive producer. The second show aired on ABC between 
1990 and 1992, the first season being titled Gabriel's Fire and the second 
(after a format revision) Pros and Cons. In both formats of that show, 
Jones played a former policeman wrongly convicted of murder who, upon his 
release from prison, became a private eye. In 1995, Jones starred in Under 
One Roof as Neb Langston, a widowed African-American police officer sharing 
his home in Seattle with his daughter, his married son with his children, 
and Neb's newly adopted son. The show was a mid-season replacement and 
lasted only six weeks. From 1989 to 1993, Jones served as the host of the 
children's TV series Long Ago and Far Away. In 1996, James guest starred 
in the CBS drama Touched by an Angel as the Angels of Angels in the episode 
"Clipped Wings". In 1998, Jones starred in the widely acclaimed syndicated 
program An American Moment (created by James R. Kirk and Ninth Wave Productions). 
Jones took over the role left by Charles Kuralt, upon Kuralt's death. He 
also made a cameo appearance in a penultimate episode of Lois & Clark: 
The New Adventures of Superman and has guest-starred on such sitcoms as 
NBC's Frasier and Will & Grace, CBS's Two and a Half Men, and the WB drama 
Everwood. Jones also lent his voice for a narrative part in the Adam Sandler 
comedy Click, released in June 2006. His voice is also used to create an 
audio version of the King James New Testament. In 2009, Jones guest starred 
in the Fox medical drama House, M.D., in season 6, episode 4, entitled 
"The Tyrant", as a brutal African dictator named Dibala who has fallen 
ill. The dictator had made threats of ethnic cleansing against an ethnic 
minority, the Sitibi, and the team deals with ethical issues of treating 
a potential mass murderer. In 2013-14 he appeared alongside Malcolm McDowell 
in a series of commercials for Sprint in which the two recited mundane 
phone and text-message conversations in a dramatic way.[40][41] Jones appeared 
as himself on the season 7 episode of The Big Bang Theory entitled "The 
Convention Conundrum". Jones married American actress/singer Julienne Marie 
in 1968, whom he met while performing as Othello in 1964.[42] They had 
no children, and divorced in 1972.[43] In 1982 he married actress Cecilia 
Hart, with whom he had one child, son Flynn Earl Jones.[44][45] Hart died 
on October 16, 2016, after a one-year battle with ovarian cancer.[46] In 
April 2016, Jones spoke publicly for the first time in nearly 20 years 
about his long-term health challenge with type 2 diabetes. He has been 
dealing with diabetes since the mid 1990s; he uses Invokana to help manage 
it.[47] Despite some of his health challenges, he has been getting help 
