The Jamestown Jammers were a minor league baseball team based in Jamestown, 
New York from 1994 until 2014. The team was the Short-Season A classification 
affiliate of the Pittsburgh Pirates and played in the New York–Penn League. 
The team played all of their home games at Russell Diethrick Park. On August 
25, 2014, a week before the end of the 2014 season, it was announced that 
the team would cease operations in Jamestown and be relocated to Morgantown, 
West Virginia, beginning in 2015. That year, the club, which is owned by 
Bob Rich, Jr., began play at Monongalia County Ballpark, as the West Virginia 
Black Bears. Another team bearing the Jamestown Jammers name played in 
the Prospect League, an amateur collegiate summer baseball league, in 2015.[1] 
A new Jammers team is set to play in 2016 as a member of the Perfect Game 
Collegiate Baseball League.[2] The team was previously based in Niagara 
Falls, New York as the Niagara Falls Rapids, a Detroit Tigers affiliate. 
Their home stadium in Niagara Falls was Sal Maglie Stadium. The team played 
in Niagara Falls from 1989–1993. The team was preceded in Jamestown by 
the Jamestown Falcons (initially known as the Jamestown Jaguars) and the 
Jamestown Expos. The Expos had played in Jamestown up until the 1993 season, 
when the team moved to Vermont and became known as the Vermont Lake Monsters. 
In 1994, immediately following the Expos' departure, the Rapids moved to 
Jamestown and assumed the name "Jamestown Jammers."[3] The Jamestown Expos 
had left the city after the 1993 season, relocating to Vermont. The new 
team was named the "Jammers" after a fan vote, with the winning name beating 
out others such as the All-Americans, Furniture Makers, Jimmies, Lakers, 
Lucys, Muskies and Steamers.[4] The team's logo was a Tasmanian devil-esque 
character. The mascot was a similar character named J.J. Jammer. In the 
off-season before the 2006 season, in an attempt to put an end once and 
for all to the "what is a Jammer?" questions, the Jammers changed their 
logo to a cartoon grape theme. The new logo represents the strong tradition 
of grape-growing in Chautauqua County. On June 19, 2006, the eve of opening 
day, the team officially announced the name of its new mascot: Bubba Grape, 
the Baseball Ape. After a decade of affiliation with the Florida/Miami 
Marlins, the Jammers signed a player development contract with the Pittsburgh 
Pirates on September 18, 2012.[5] Although Rich also owns the Buffalo Bisons, 
a higher-level minor league baseball team in the same media market, he 
never affiliated the two teams with the same parent club during the Jammers' 
time in Jamestown, and as a result, the two teams have always been in separate 
farm systems. Published reports released in March 2013 (and reiterated 
in August 2014)[6] indicated that the Jammers were the leading candidate 
for relocation after the league announced it would be relocating one of 
its franchises to the campus of West Virginia University in Morgantown, 
West Virginia in 2015.[7] The team's new name, the West Virginia Black 
Bears, was selected shortly after the Jammers' last game. Rich, who will 
continue to own the team, confirmed the news in a press conference on August 
25, 2014, as did officials from the city of Jamestown, who indicated that 
the New York–Penn League had been trying to get out of Jamestown for several 
years (the league had been in the city continuously since 1960 and intermittently 
since the league's launch in 1939, long after nearby cities such as Bradford, 
Olean and Wellsville had lost their pro teams; it was one of only two of 
the league's charter cities still with a team, and the other, Batavia, 
began seeking a relocation and sale not long after[8]). Rich Baseball still 
has one year remaining on its lease with Diethrick Park, and it is unknown 
how the team will fulfill the terms of the lease.[9] Attendance declines 
were a major factor in the team's departure; while in 2009, the team was 
still drawing close to the league average in attendance, the team averaged 
less than 800 fans per game in 2014 and had lost half of its attendance 
in the past five years (this may have also been a result of the fans knowing 
the team was leaving).[10] The other factor in the team's departure was 
the decrepitude of Russell Diethrick Park; other teams in the league were 
refusing to use the facilities there, and the attendance declines made 
it impossible to fund upgrades that the city and other entities that used 
the ballpark also refused to finance.[11] The Jamestown Jammers intellectual 
property rights were then transferred to what had previously been the Lorain 
County Ironmen of the Prospect League, a collegiate summer baseball league. 
The Ironmen relocated to Jamestown and took on the Jammers identity. The 
amateur Jammers played one season in the Prospect League before the owners 
relocated the franchise to Lafayette, Indiana. In its place is another 
Jammers team, set to play 2016 in the Perfect Game Collegiate Baseball 
League; the Jammers ownership cited distance and the opportunities to renew 
old rivalries for the change in leagues.[2] (from Baseball Reference Bullpen) 
* – The Jammers and Batavia Muckdogs finished in a virtual tie for first 
place in the Pinckney Division in the 2008 season; however, the Muckdogs 
played two fewer games, finishing at 46–28 to the Jammers' 47–29. The Muckdogs' 
.622 winning percentage gave them the division title over the Jammers' 
