As Player As Coach James Patrick Quirk (/ˈkwɜːrk/; born October 22, 1954) 
is a former Major League Baseball catcher. Quirk was also a Parade Magazine 
All-America quarterback at St. Paul High School in Santa Fe Springs, California 
where, upon graduation, he was offered a four-year football scholarship 
to the University of Notre Dame.[1] Quirk attended Whittier College.[2] 
Quirk played for the Kansas City Royals, Milwaukee Brewers, St. Louis Cardinals, 
Chicago White Sox, New York Yankees, Oakland Athletics, Cleveland Indians 
and Baltimore Orioles in a career that spanned the years 1975–1992. On 
September 27, 1984, Quirk hit a game-winning home run in the bottom of 
the ninth for the Cleveland Indians in a game against the Minnesota Twins. 
It was the only plate appearance Quirk had for the Indians,[3] and was 
meaningless for Cleveland, which was in 6th place in its division. But 
the home run was crucial for Quirk's former team of seven years, the Kansas 
City Royals, which was in a tight race with the Twins for the American 
League West division crown. With Quirk's home run, the Royals moved two 
games ahead of the Twins with three to play. The Royals clinched the division 
the next day. Quirk would return to the Royals in 1985 and play four more 
years in Kansas City. Quirk served as bench coach for the Colorado Rockies 
from 2003 to 2008 under manager Clint Hurdle.[4] From 2009 to 2011, Quirk 
served as bullpen coach for the Houston Astros under manager Brad Mills.[5] 
On November 29, 2011, Quirk became the bench coach for the Chicago Cubs 
to serve under newly hired manager Dale Sveum.[4] On September 6, 2012, 
Quirk was involved in a benches-clearing incident during a game between 
the Cubs and the Washington Nationals. Quirk was yelling from his own dugout, 
apparently at Nationals third base coach Bo Porter, causing Porter to leave 
his position as third base coach and approach Quirk. Ultimately, both teams 
came out onto the field and Quirk was ejected by umpire Jerry Layne.[6] 
He was the Manager of the Lake Elsinore Storm and the San Antonio Missions 
in the San Diego Padres system before he was promoted to the El Paso Chihuahuas 
on June 17, 2015.[7] Quirk is currently the manager of the Wilmington Blue 
