The Japan national baseball team is the national team representing Japan 
in international baseball competitions. They have won the World Baseball 
Classic in 2006 and 2009. The team is currently ranked #1 in the world 
by the International Baseball Federation.[1] The team has been nicknamed 
"Samurai Japan" (侍ジャパン?).[2] The team participated in every Summer Olympic 
Games since the first demonstration tournament in 1984 through when it 
was discontinued following the 2008 Beijing Games. Until 2000, the team 
was made up exclusively of amateur players. Since the 2000 Summer Olympics, 
the team has been composed of players from Nippon Professional Baseball. 
The team playing in the 2006 World Baseball Classic included Japanese players 
from Major League Baseball as well. In the Classic, the team played in 
Pool A and placed second, advancing to round two. They went on to win the 
Classic. They played at the Beijing Olympics in 2008, as they had qualified 
through the Asian Baseball Championship in 2007. Unlike the WBC roster, 
the Olympic team was exclusively formed by NPB players (but included one 
amateur player, who was drafted during the tournament's progress). Like 
other national teams in Japan, the nickname is usually prefixed with the 
surname of the manager. However, in the 2009 World Baseball Classic, the 
team used Samurai, a symbol of Japan's history, instead of Hara, the surname 
of their manager. In 2012, it was adopted officially. Japan have dominated 
the Asian Baseball Championship since its inception, and have competed 
in every year. Japan have never missed out on placing in the top 3 in any 
tournament, and is the only team to have achieved this feat. Japan also 
holds the record for most consecutive Asian Championships, having won four 
times in a row on two separate occasions, including the four most recent 
tournaments to be held. In all four Asian Games to include baseball, Japan 
have placed in the top 3 in every tournament, though they have only won 
the tournament once in the first event held in Hiroshima in 1994. Japan 
won the inaugural 2006 World Baseball Classic, defeating Cuba in the Final. 
Japan also won the 2009 World Baseball Classic, hosting the Pool A games 
in the Tokyo Dome. Japan started the tournament opener with a 4–0 win over 
China. Japan then secured advancement into the second round with a 14–2 
win in seven innings over rival South Korea. The game was shortened due 
to the WBC's mercy rule. Japan then played South Korea again to determine 
seeding for the second round. In the rematch, the Koreans shut out Japan 
1–0, making Japan advance as the Pool A runner-up. In Pool 1 of the WBC 
quarter-finals, Japan defeated Cuba 6–0, but lost to Korea again 4–1. In 
the elimination match that followed, Japan secured a spot in the semi-finals 
with a 5–0 win over Cuba. Japan defeated South Korea in the Finals 5–3 
partly because of an Ichiro Suzuki base hit in the 10th inning. Japan, 
the two-time world defending champions, enters the 2013 World Baseball 
Classic, hosting Pool A games in the Fukuoka Dome, facing off against Cuba, 
China and newcomers Brazil. Despite their first loss against the Cuban 
team, they have secured their position for the second round in 2013 World 
Baseball Classic – Pool 1 to face off the Netherlands and Chinese Taipei. 
The Japanese team narrowly wins against Chinese Taipei 4-3 before proceeding 
to face off the Dutch team, winning against them twice before proceeding 
to the semi-final round, along with the Netherlands, as they face off against 
Puerto Rico. Despite Japan's efforts, they eventually lose 3-1 against 
the Puerto Rican team right after Alex Ríos scored two additional runs 
from a home run. Japan finishes third in the 2013 WBC, as their two-time 
championship streak has ended. The Japanese team bowed out to both the 
crowd and the Puerto Rican team as a gesture of respect. Infielders Outfielders 
Coaches Since 1986 an All-Star team from Major League Baseball (MLB) is 
sent to a biennial end-of-the-season tour of Japan, dubbed as MLB Japan 
All-Star Series, playing exhibition games in a best-of format against the 
All-Stars from NPB or recently as of 2014 the Samurai Japan. 1commonly 
