The National High School Baseball Championship (全国高等学校野球選手権大会 zenkoku kōtō 
gakkō yakyū senshuken taikai) of Japan, commonly known as "Summer Kōshien" 
(夏の甲子園 natsu no kōshien), is an annual nationwide high school baseball 
tournament. It is the largest scale amateur sport event in Japan, even 
as soccer continues to gain more attention. The tournament, organized by 
the Japan High School Baseball Federation and Asahi Shimbun, takes place 
during the summer school vacation period, culminating in a two-week final 
tournament stage with 49 teams in August at Hanshin Koshien Stadium (阪神甲子園球場 
hanshin kōshien kyūjō) in the Koshien district of Nishinomiya City, Hyōgo, 
Japan. The 49 schools taking part in the final tourney represent regional 
champions of each of the prefectures of Japan (with two from Hokkaidō and 
Tokyo). From mid-June until July, regional tournaments are held to decide 
who is sent to Koshien.[1] The rules are the same as in the National High 
School Baseball Invitational Tournament. It is a single elimination tournament 
with nine inning games. Games are declared official after seven complete 
innings in the case of suspension (due to weather, et cetera), except for 
the championship game which must be played to completion. For the regional 
tournaments, games are ended if one team leads by at least ten runs after 
five innings or seven runs after seven innings, except in the championship 
games. Designated hitters are not used. Four umpires are used, except for 
night games in which two outfield line umpires are added. The first round 
pairings and byes are decided by lottery. 34 teams meet in the first round, 
and 15 teams with byes join at the second round (32 teams play in the second 
round). Therefore, it takes either five or six wins for a team to win the 
championship. Until 2002, the four quarter finals were played in one day, 
but this was changed to two a day over two days to give the players time 
off. If rainouts continue for more than three days, four games are played 
in one day. This occurred in 2003, so the first time the quarter finals 
were played over two days was actually 2004. To accommodate the extra day, 
the long tradition of starting the tournament on August 8 was changed to 
start a day or two early. Up to four games are played each day until the 
quarter finals. The starting times of each day's games is shown below. 
Following games are begun about 30 minutes after the previous game ends. 
Due to the fast pace of the pitching, four games in one day are usually 
completed before sunset. For tournaments previous to 1958 there were no 
extra inning limits for a game tied after nine innings of play. In 1933, 
Masao Yoshida had pitched a complete game during a 25 inning shutout in 
the semifinal, an all-time record. Yoshida had thrown 336 pitches during 
that game. After 1958, a rematch must be called after 18 innings. The first 
pitcher to pitch a complete game 18 innings was Eiji Bando in a 1958 quarterfinal 
game. Daisuke Matsuzaka became the last pitcher to pitch a complete game 
over 15 innings (17 innings in 250 pitches, 1998). After 2000, all games 
that are tied after 15 innings are rescheduled for the following day. This 
first happened in the finals in 2006. The tournament theme song is "The 
Laurels of Victory Shine on You". Every five years, the tournament celebrates 
the anniversary, and a deep crimson is used for the championship flag. 
For third year students, a loss at the tournament signifies an end to their 
high school baseball career, as there are no other major tournaments for 
the rest of their academic career. It is common for players to collect 
soil from the stadium as a souvenir. For third year students, the dirt 
is kept as memorabilia, whereas lower grade players often use it as motivation 
to return to the tournament. Table lists all the High Schools participating 
in the 2014 tournament.[2] The 2014 hit Taiwanese film Kano is based on 
the true story of a high school baseball team from the Kagi Agriculture 
High School (now known as National Chiayi University) team in Kagi (now 
known as Chiayi), Taiwan who qualified for the tournament for the first 
time in 1931 after never having won a game in its first three seasons. 
The team was made up of ethnic Japanese, Taiwanese Hoklo and Hakka Han 
Chinese and Taiwanese aborigines. The team won three games to make it to 
the championship game before losing 4–0 to Chukyo from Nagoya. This was 
the first of four appearances at the tournament for the Kano team, who 
later qualified in 1933, 1935 and 1936. Coordinates: 34°43′16.34″N 135°21′41.84″E﻿ 
