The Japan Championship Series (日本選手権シリーズ, Nippon Senshuken Shiriizu?), 
or Japan Series (日本シリーズ, Nippon Shiriizu?) is the annual championship series 
in Nippon Professional Baseball and the top baseball league in Japan. It 
is a seven-game series between the winning clubs of the league's two circuits, 
the Central League and the Pacific League. The Series is the highest level 
of play in professional baseball in Japan. It is usually played in October 
or November. As in all of the best-of-seven series, the first team to win 
four games is the overall winner and is declared the Japan Series Champion 
(日本一, Nippon Ichi?, number one in Japan) each year. The winner of the Japan 
Series also goes on to be the Japanese representative team in the annual 
Asia Series. The home team for games 1, 2 and eventually 6 and 7, alternates 
between the two leagues with the Pacific League having the advantage on 
the years ending with an odd number and the Central League on the years 
ending with an even number. Designated hitters are used if the team from 
the Pacific League hosts the game. There is a 40-man postseason roster 
limit, and the rule on drawn games is changed to 15 innings instead of 
12. If the series is tied after the seventh game, a Game 8 will be held 
without any limits in extra innings with the same team hosting Games 6 
and 7 hosting this game. Only once a Game 8 has been played in Japan Series 
history, where the Seibu Lions defeated the Hiroshima Toyo Carp in 1986. 
Historically, the Central League has been more successful in the Japan 
Series than the Pacific League, having won thirty-five times versus the 
Pacific League's thirty. The team with the most championships is the Yomiuri 
Giants, who have won the Japan Series twenty-two times. In 2004, the Pacific 
League instituted a three-team stepladder playoff format to determine the 
league champion, while the Central League champion had a long wait before 
the Japan Series. During this time, the Pacific League won four consecutive 
Series from 2003–2006. Starting with the 2007 postseason, both leagues 
adopted the Climax Series to determine their champions. The Climax Series 
involves the top three finishers in each league, though the format gives 
a significant advantage to the team with the best record in each league. 
On November 6, 2010, the Chunichi Dragons and Chiba Lotte Marines played 
the longest game in Japan Series History. It lasted fifteen innings and 
resulted in a 2-2 draw. In 2016, the Hokkaido Nippon-Ham Fighters, defeated 
the Hiroshima Toyo Carp four games to two. This was the Fighters' third 
winning championship after an interval of 10 years. NOTE: There is a limit 
to the number of innings which may be played during any game in Japanese 
professional baseball. All ties after 15 innings (was originally 12 innings) 
are official tie games. 1The franchise currently known as the Saitama Seibu 
Lions had a Japan Series record of 3–2 as the Nishitetsu Lions. 2The franchise 
currently known as the Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks had a Japan Series record 
of 2–8 as the Nankai Hawks. 3The franchise currently known as the Orix 
Buffaloes had a Japan Series record of 3–7 as the Hankyu Braves, and 1–1 
as the Orix BlueWave. It took its current name in 2005 after merging with 
the Osaka Kintetsu Buffaloes. 4The franchise currently known as the Chiba 
Lotte Marines had a Japan Series record of 1–0 as the Mainichi Orions, 
0–1 as the Daimai Orions, and 1–1 as the Lotte Orions. 5The franchise currently 
known as the Hokkaido Nippon-Ham Fighters had a Japan Series record of 
1–0 as the Toei Flyers. 6The franchise currently known as the Yokohama 
BayStars had a Japan Series record of 1–0 as the Taiyō Whales. 7The Osaka 
Kintetsu Buffaloes were merged with the Orix BlueWave in 2005 to form the 
Orix Buffaloes. 8The Shochiku Robins were merged with the Taiyō Whales 
