The Japanese Baseball League (日本野球連盟, Nihon Yakyū Renmei?) was a professional 
baseball league in Japan which operated from 1936–1949, before reorganizing 
in 1950 as Nippon Professional Baseball. The league's dominant team was 
Tokyo Kyojin (renamed the Yomiuri Giants in 1947), which won nine league 
championships, including six in a row from 1938–1943, during the "dead-ball 
era", when many of Japan's best players were serving in the Imperial Japanese 
Army.[1] Unlike American pro teams, Japanese Baseball League teams were 
usually named after their corporate owners/sponsors rather than the cities 
or regions in which they played. This was because Japanese franchising 
does not have strong territorial requirements as in the Major Leagues; 
as a result, the JBL teams clustered in metropolitan areas in Japan's center 
(Tokyo, Nagoya) and south (Osaka). As a result, teams were notorious for 
how often they changed their names, often because of changes in ownership/sponsorship 
(and also because of nationalistic regulations imposed during wartime, 
such as the outlawing of English team names).[2] (The Yomiuri Giants, the 
Chunichi Dragons, and the Hanshin Tigers are the only surviving major clubs 
that have always been based in their respective cities. Additionally, the 
current Orix Buffaloes are a merger of two clubs which never left their 
hometown.) Most Japanese Baseball League teams did not have an "official" 
home stadium; instead, teams played at any stadium in the area in which 
they were based.[3] All league championships went to whoever had the best 
record at the end of the season, without a postseason series being played. 
The league was established on February 5, 1936, as the Japan Occupational 
Baseball League, with an initial complement of seven teams. Three of the 
teams were based in Tokyo, two in Osaka, and two in Nagoya. The league 
played fall and spring seasons in 1937 (c. 100-game schedule, in total) 
and 1938 (total 75-game schedule), adding one new team each year. It was 
renamed the Japanese Baseball League in 1939, playing a 96-game schedule. 
Before the 1940 season, one of the founding teams, Nagoya Kinko (originally 
the Nagoya Golden Dolphins), merged with the Tokyo Senators. The 1940 season 
featured a 104-game schedule. In October 1940 (responding to rising hostility 
toward the West due to World War II), the league outlawed the use of English 
in Japanese baseball.[2] In response, the Korakuen Eagles became "Kurowashi", 
the Osaka Tigers became "Hanshin", the Tokyo Senators became "Tsubasa", 
and (eventually) Lion became "Asahi." In 1941, the JBL appointed its first 
president, Jiro Morioka (formerly VP of Dai Tokyo). Morioka negotiated 
with the Japanese Imperial Army to keep professional baseball going through 
the early years of the Second World War. The league played a 90-game schedule 
in 1941, a 104-game schedule in 1942, and an 84-game schedule in 1943. 
Two Tokyo-based teams dissolved before the 1944 season: the Yamato Baseball 
Club (originally the Korakuen Eagles) and the Nishitetsu Baseball Club 
(originally the Tokyo Senators). Due to the Pacific War, the 1944 season 
was truncated to c. 35 games, and the 1945 season was skipped entirely. 
Many players enlisted in the Japanese Imperial Army.[1] The league restarted 
on November 6, 1945, and a full season of 105 games was played the next 
year, with two new teams (both based in Tokyo) joining the league. One 
of the new teams, Gold Star, was owned by textile manufacturer Komajiro 
Tamura, who also owned Pacific (formerly Asahi).[4] A rival four-team league, 
known as the Kokumin League (国民リーグ, Kokumin Riigu?), played a 30-game summer 
season in 1947. Unable to compete against the more established JBL, however, 
the Kokumin League disbanded a few games into the 1947 fall season. The 
Japanese Baseball League played a 119-game schedule in 1947. That year, 
baseball personality Soutaro Suzuki proposed that JBL teams should have 
pet names like the Yomiuri Giants', whose pet name was "Kyojin", and names 
such as the Osaka Tigers' alias "Mouko" (fierce tiger), the revived Tokyo 
Senators' "Seito" (bluestockings) and the Pacific's "Taihei" (tranquility) 
began to be used by the press. However, some teams rejected the use of 
these pet names, so they were never fully adopted. The 1948 season had 
a 140-game schedule, and the 1949 season had a 134-game schedule. After 
the 1949 season, the league reorganized into Nippon Professional Baseball 
(NPB). Four of the franchises formerly in the Japanese Baseball League 
currently play in NPB's Central League, and four others are in the Pacific 
League. Victor Starffin, an ethnic Russian pitcher, was a dominant player 
of the era and the first professional pitcher in Japan to win three hundred 
games.[1][5] Shosei Go, nicknamed "The Human Locomotive", was a speedy 
player from Taiwan who played in the league for the Kyojin and the Tigers. 
He won the 1943 JBL Most Valuable Player award as a member of the champion 
Kyojin. Hiroshi Oshita was another Taiwanese player who starred in the 
JBL. From 1946–1949 he played for the Tokyo Senators/Tokyu Flyers. (After 
reorganization, Oshita stayed with the Flyers until 1951, and then moved 
to the Nishitetsu Lions, finishing his Japanese professional career with 
a .303 lifetime batting average, 201 home runs, and 861 RBI.)[6] Andrew 
"Bucky" Harrison McGalliard (Japan's "Bucky Harris"), Herbert "Buster" 
North, and James E. "Jimmy Bonna" Bonner became the first Americans to 
play in Japan's professional baseball league in 1936. (Bonner was African-American, 
thus beating Jackie Robinson to professional baseball 11 years before Robinson 
broke in with the Brooklyn Dodgers.)[7] They were joined by the Japanese-American 
players Kiyomi "Slim" Hirakawa, Fumito "Jimmy" Horio, Kazuyoshi "George" 
