Baseball was first introduced to Japan in 1872 and is currently among the 
country's most popular participatory and spectator sports.[1] The first 
professional competitions emerged in the 1920s. The current league, Nippon 
Professional Baseball, consists of two leagues of 6 teams each. High school 
baseball enjoys a particularly strong public profile; the Japanese High 
School Baseball Championship (Summer Kōshien) each August is nationally 
televised and includes regional champions from all of Japan's 47 prefectures. 
Baseball is commonly called 野球 (やきゅう; yakyū) in Japanese, combining the 
characters for field and ball. According to Japan's National Tourism Organization, 
"Baseball is so popular in Japan that many fans are surprised to hear that 
Americans also consider it their ‘national sport.’"[2] Baseball was first 
introduced to Japan as a school sport in 1872 by American Horace Wilson,[3] 
an English professor at the Kaisei Academy in Tokyo. The first organized 
adult baseball team, called the Shimbashi Athletic Club, was established 
in 1878. At a match played in Yokohama in 1896, a team from Tokyo's Ichikō 
high school convincingly defeated a team of resident foreigners from the 
Yokohama Country & Athletic Club. The contemporary Japanese language press 
lauded the team as national heroes and news of this match greatly contributed 
to the popularity of baseball as a school sport.[4] Professional baseball 
in Japan first started in the 1920s, but it was not until the Greater Japan 
Tokyo Baseball Club (大日本東京野球クラブ Dai-nippon Tōkyō Yakyū Kurabu) a team of 
all-stars established in 1934 by media mogul Matsutarō Shōriki, that the 
modern professional game found continued success — especially after Shōriki's 
club matched up against an American All-Star team that included Babe Ruth, 
Jimmie Foxx, Lou Gehrig, and Charlie Gehringer. While prior Japanese all-star 
contingents had disbanded, Shōriki went pro with this group, playing in 
an independent league. The first Japanese professional league was formed 
in 1936, and by 1950 had grown big enough to divide into two leagues, known 
as Nippon Professional Baseball (NPB). (It is called Puro Yakyū (プロ野球?), 
which simply is a translation of professional baseball.) The Central League 
included the established teams, and the Pacific League was made up of new 
teams and players. The Pacific League uses the designated hitter style 
of play. The pro baseball season is eight months long with games beginning 
in April. Teams play 144 games (as compared to the 162 games of the American 
major league teams), followed by a playoff system, culminating in a championship 
held in October, known as the Japan Series. Corporations with interests 
outside baseball own most of the teams. Historically, teams have been identified 
with their owners, not where the team is based. However, in recent years, 
many owners have chosen to include a place name in the names of their teams; 
the majority of the 12 Nippon Professional Baseball League (NPB) teams 
are currently named with both corporate and geographical place names. The 
rules are essentially those of Major League Baseball, but technical elements 
are slightly different: The Nippon league uses a smaller baseball, strike 
zone, and playing field. Five Nippon league teams have fields whose small 
dimensions would violate the American Official Baseball Rules.[5] Also 
unlike MLB, game length is limited and tie games are allowed. In the regular 
season, the limit is twelve innings, while in the playoffs, there is a 
fifteen-inning limit (Games in Major League Baseball, by comparison, continue 
until there is a winner; the 2002 All-Star Game, an exhibition game, was 
a notorious exception.) Additionally, during the 2011 NPB season, an inning 
occurring three hours and thirty minutes after the first pitch was the 
final inning, due to power limits imposed because of the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake 
and tsunami. A team cannot have more than four foreign players on a 25-man 
game roster, although there is no limit on the number of foreign players 
that it may sign. If there are four, they cannot all be pitchers nor all 
be position players.[6] This limits the cost and competition for expensive 
players of other nationalities, and is similar to rules in many European 
sports leagues' roster limits on non-European players. In each of the two 
Nippon Professional Baseball leagues, teams with the best winning percentage 
go on to a stepladder-format playoff (3 vs 2, winner vs 1). Occasionally, 
a team with more total wins has been seeded below a team that had more 
ties and fewer losses and, therefore, had a better winning percentage. 
The winners of each league compete in the Japan Series. On September 18, 
2004, professional baseball players went on a two-day strike, the first 
strike in the history of the league, to protest the proposed merger between 
the Orix BlueWave and the Osaka Kintetsu Buffaloes and the failure of the 
owners to agree to create a new team to fill the void resulting from the 
merger. The strike was settled on September 23, 2004, when the owners agreed 
to grant a new franchise in the Pacific League and to continue the two-league, 
12-team system. The new team, the Tohoku Rakuten Golden Eagles began play 
in the 2005 season. In Japan, high school baseball (高校野球, kōkō yakyū?) 
generally refers to the two annual baseball tournaments played by high 
schools nationwide culminating in a final showdown at Hanshin Kōshien Stadium 
in Nishinomiya. They are organized by the Japan High School Baseball Federation 
in association with Mainichi Shimbun for the National High School Baseball 
Invitational Tournament in the spring (also known as "Spring Kōshien") 
and Asahi Shimbun for the National High School Baseball Championship in 
the summer (also known as "Summer Kōshien"). These nationwide tournaments 
enjoy widespread popularity, arguably equal to or greater than professional 
baseball. Qualifying tournaments are often televised locally and each game 
of the final stage at Kōshien is televised nationally on NHK. The tournaments 
have become a national tradition, and large numbers of students and parents 
travel from hometowns to cheer for their local team. It is a common sight 
to see players walking off the field in tears after being eliminated from 
the tournament by a loss. Amateur baseball leagues exist all over Japan, 
with many teams sponsored by companies. Amateur baseball is governed by 
the Japan Amateur Baseball Association (JABA). Players on these teams are 
employed by their sponsoring companies and do not receive salaries as baseball 
players but as company employees. The best teams in these circuits are 
determined via the Intercity Baseball Tournament and the Industrial League 
National Tournament.[7] The level of play in these leagues is very competitive 
- Industrial League players are often selected to represent Japan in international 
tournaments[7] and Major League Baseball players such as Hideo Nomo (Shin-Nitetsu 
Sakai),[8] Junichi Tazawa (Nippon Oil)[9] and Kosuke Fukudome (Nihon Seimei),[10] 
have been discovered by professional clubs while playing industrial baseball. 
Japan has won the World Baseball Classic twice since the tournament was 
created. In the 2006 World Baseball Classic, they defeated Cuba in the 
finals[11] and in 2009 World Baseball Classic Japan defeated South Korea 
in 10 innings to defend their title.[12] The national team is currently 
