Jason Benetti (born September 9, 1983) is the television play-by-play announcer 
for Chicago White Sox home games.[1]He also acts as a play-by-play broadcaster 
for ESPN, Fox Sports, Westwood One, and Time Warner covering football, 
baseball, lacrosse, hockey, and basketball. Benetti was born with cerebral 
palsy. Benetti was born 10 weeks prematurely and hospitalized for three 
months. During the three months in the hospital, Benetti had a respiratory 
illness while in intensive care that deprived his blood of oxygen. It is 
believed that caused his cerebral palsy, which was diagnosed when Benetti 
was a toddler. He underwent years of physical therapy and two surgeries 
to improve his ability to walk.[2] Neither the wheelchair he needed for 
a time in elementary school nor the braces he once wore on his legs kept 
Benetti from developing a passion for sports. He played catch with his 
father and basketball in the driveway. He studied statistics, memorized 
team nicknames and pretended to call the action while playing Nintendo 
games or watching sports on TV when he was 8 and 9 years old.[2] In Junior 
High Benetti ran his school's NCAA tournament pool, and in High School 
he joined the radio broadcasters.[3] While the cerebral palsy didn't prevent 
him from playing tuba in High School, it did prevent him from playing tuba 
during marching band season. Not wanting to exclude Benetti, the band director 
asked him to serve as the Halftime broadcast for their marching events.[4] 
In the mid-2000s Benetti became a student at Syracuse University where 
he called lacrosse and women's basketball. After graduating Benetti enrolled 
at Wake Forest University where he attended for three years. Benetti would 
graduate Wake Forest with a law degree, but most nights would be spent 
calling sports instead of studying. While at Wake Forest Benetti acted 
as the voice of High Point Panthers basketball games, Syracuse Chiefs baseball 
games, and high school football for Time Warner Cable Sports Channel.[2] 
In 2011 Benetti would join the ranks of ESPN,[4] and his broadcasting career 
would move onto television, a medium he wanted to avoid when he was a kid.[2] 
Benetti would call select college basketball games for ESPN3 and then move 
onto ESPN2 and ESPNU. In 2013 Benetti called his first football game for 
AAC Network. While Benetti continues to grow in his sports broadcast career, 
he finds a higher purpose in serving with CHAT, also known as the Communication 
Hope through Assistive Technology, camp at Syracuse University.[5] Today 
most people are shocked to learn that Benetti has cerebral palsy; Benetti 
continues to be grateful and thankful to all who allow him to grow and 
learn. Beginning in 2016, Benetti replaced Ken Harrelson as the television 
