John William Johnstone Jr. (born November 20, 1946[1]) is an American former 
professional baseball player, active from 1966 to 1985 for the California 
Angels, Chicago White Sox, Oakland Athletics, Philadelphia Phillies, New 
York Yankees, San Diego Padres, Los Angeles Dodgers, and Chicago Cubs. 
Johnstone was known as a versatile outfielder with a good sense of humor, 
known for keeping clubhouses loose with occasional pranks and gimmicks. 
He later served as a radio color commentator for the Yankees (1989–1990) 
and Phillies (1992–1993). Career highlights include: He pulled off a number 
of infamous pranks during his playing days, including placing a soggy brownie 
inside Steve Garvey's first base mitt, setting teammates' cleats on fire 
(known as "hot-footing"), cutting out the crotch area of Rick Sutcliffe's 
underwear, locking Dodger manager Tommy Lasorda in his office during spring 
training, once dressing up as a groundskeeper and sweeping the Dodger Stadium 
infield in between innings and then hitting homers the next, nailing teammates' 
cleats to the floor, and replacing the celebrity photos in manager Lasorda's 
office with pictures of himself, Jerry Reuss and Don Stanhouse. One time, 
during pre-game warm ups, he climbed atop the Dodger dugout and, in full 
game uniform, walked through the field boxes at Dodger Stadium to the concession 
stand and got a hot dog. Another time he bolted from a taxicab on the gridlocked 
Golden State Freeway during a pregame traffic jam and began running in 
uniform toward the Stadium Way exit. He also once dressed up in Lasorda's 
uniform (with padding underneath) and ran out to the mound to talk to the 
pitcher while carrying Lasorda's book and a can of Slim Fast. As a baseball 
announcer, he once covered a microphone with a scent of stale eggs then 
proceeded to interview Dave "Smoke" Stewart, Mickey Hatcher and other players. 
Many of the pranks, along with other aspects of his career, are described 
in the books he co-authored with sports columnist Rick Talley – Temporary 
Insanity, Over the Edge, and Some of My Best Friends Are Crazy. Johnstone 
appeared in the movie Naked Gun as a member of the Seattle Mariners in 
a game against the California Angels. Johnstone, who was a left-handed 
hitter throughout his career, bats right-handed in the movie. After the 
Dodgers' 1981 World Series victory, Johnstone and Dodger teammates Rick 
Monday (with whom he shares a birthday, service in the Marines, and stints 
with the A's, Cubs, and Dodgers), Jerry Reuss, and Steve Yeager appeared 
on Solid Gold and sang their own rendition of Queen's hit, We Are the Champions. 
