Jean Remington Yawkey (January 24, 1909 – February 26, 1992) was the wife 
of Tom Yawkey and owner of the Boston Red Sox from 1976 to her death in 
1992. She was a native of Brooklyn, New York. As Jean Hollander, she grew 
up in Freeport, Long Island, and was a New York City fashion model for 
ten years before becoming Mrs. Tom Yawkey in 1944, in Georgetown, South 
Carolina. Mrs. Yawkey's husband, Tom, became owner and president of the 
Boston Red Sox in 1933. The family owned and operated the team for 59 years, 
with Mrs. Yawkey taking over as the team's president after her husband's 
death in 1976 and serving in that role until her own passing. Mrs. Yawkey 
was chairwoman of the board of directors of the JRY Corporation, the majority 
owner and general partner of the Red Sox. In addition to attending virtually 
every home game, Mrs. Yawkey actively participated along with other JRY 
Corporation officers in management issues involving the team. Her attendance 
at Red Sox games was more than duty. She meticulously kept score in a custom-bound 
set of score cards. Although Mrs. Yawkey's business adviser and presumptive 
heir, John Harrington, the president of the JRY Corporation, which holds 
the Yawkey Red Sox shares, was often mistaken for the real power behind 
the franchise, those close to the club insisted that Mr. Harrington was 
merely the prime minister and Mrs. Yawkey was always the queen.[1] During 
World War II, Mrs. Yawkey was active with the Red Cross. She had a long 
association with New England's famed Jimmy Fund/Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 
as a Trustee and for a period as Chair of the Board. She was active in 
Tara Hall Home and School for Boys in South Carolina, and she was instrumental 
in the establishment of the Family Inn in Brookline, Massachusetts, a temporary 
home for families of patients undergoing transplant surgery in Boston area 
hospitals. She was also a Trustee of Yawkey Foundation I, which supports 
the 21,000 acre (85 km2) Tom Yawkey Wildlife Center, willed by her late 
husband, a dedicated conservationist, to the South Carolina Heritage Trust. 
A firm believer in equal opportunity, Mrs. Yawkey and the Yawkey Foundations 
established scholarship funds at Yale University, Boston College, and Boston 
College High School, was a supporter of the Jackie Robinson Scholarship 
Program, and supported several other educational institutions to provide 
minority students and others with scholarship aid. Numerous humanitarian, 
educational, cultural and athletic activities, including the Boys & Girls 
Clubs of Boston, the Boston Park League, Boston Pops and Symphony Orchestras, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, John F. Kennedy Library, University of 
Massachusetts Boston, New England Aquarium, and the Boston Food Bank were 
also supported by Mrs. Yawkey and the Yawkey Foundations. Mrs. Yawkey was 
a Director of the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum in Cooperstown, 
New York, holding the distinction of being the first woman ever elected 
to serve on the board of that baseball shrine. In 1991, the Greater Boston 
Chamber of Commerce inducted Mrs. Yawkey into the Academy of Distinguished 
Bostonians. Jean R. Yawkey died in Boston, Massachusetts at the age of 
83. Jean Yawkey threw out the first pitch of Game 7 in the 1986 World Series 
