Jed D. Hoyer (born December 7, 1973), is the executive vice-president and 
general manager of the Chicago Cubs.[1] He has been the general manager 
of the San Diego Padres and the assistant general manager of the Boston 
Red Sox. He joined the Red Sox in 2002, after the ownership of John W. 
Henry, Tom Werner, and Larry Lucchino took over the team from John Harrington. 
He worked under the title of assistant to the general manager until December 
2005. He then was given the title of assistant general manager. Hoyer briefly 
served as co-general manager of the Red Sox from December 12, 2005 to January 
19, 2006 and then returning to his previous job of assistant general manager. 
In November 2003, he accompanied general manager Theo Epstein to Arizona 
to persuade pitcher Curt Schilling to accept a trade to the Red Sox, spending 
Thanksgiving at Schilling's home in what was eventually a successful effort.[2] 
When Epstein left his position on October 31, 2005, Hoyer was part of a 
group of four executives, called the "Gang of Four", that kept the club 
running in Epstein's absence. Other members of the "gang" were Ben Cherington, 
Bill Lajoie, and Craig Shipley,[3] a group which completed trades for, 
among others, Josh Beckett, Mike Lowell, Mark Loretta, and Andy Marte. 
Shortly after the winter meetings were completed in early December, Hoyer 
and Cherington were promoted to co-general managers, where they remained 
until Epstein returned to his original position on January 19, 2006 after 
a 10-week hiatus.[4] Hoyer has also been a key player in decision making 
regarding players and their contracts for the past several seasons. Beginning 
in 2008, he became the first "Resident Expert" for the Fenway neighborhood 
on Povo.com, a local wiki whose platform lets you share your insider’s 
knowledge of Boston. Following the 2007 season, Hoyer interviewed to become 
General Manager of the Pittsburgh Pirates, a job that went to Neal Huntington 
of the Cleveland Indians organization.[5] Similarly, during the 2009 season, 
Hoyer then interviewed to become the GM of the Washington Nationals, who 
appointed their own Assistant GM, Mike Rizzo (baseball), to the top spot.[6] 
In October 2009 he was hired as the San Diego Padres' general manager.[7][8] 
Perhaps his best known deal as GM of the Padres was when he sent 1B Adrian 
Gonzalez to the Red Sox in exchange for RHP Casey Kelly, OF Reymond Fuentes, 
utility man Eric Patterson and 1B Anthony Rizzo. On October 26, 2011, the 
Chicago Cubs announced that Jed Hoyer and Jason McLeod had joined the club. 
Jed Hoyer became the general manager, while McLeod will work in the scouting 
department.[9] The Cubs announced that compensation for Hoyer would be 
worked out before the Rule 5 Draft. Hoyer graduated from the Holderness 
School in New Hampshire in 1992, then went to Wesleyan University, where 
he was a star pitcher who shares Wesleyan's career saves record with Sam 
Elias.[10] He spent Summer 1995 on the roster of the Waterbury Barons of 
the New England Collegiate Baseball League with fellow Wesleyan Player 
Jesse Carpenter seeing innings on the mound and at shortstop. Hoyer worked 
in the admissions office and then the alumni/development office, and was 
also a baseball coach at the university after graduating. He attended Kenyon 
College before joining the Red Sox at 28.[11] He married Merrill Muckerman 
