Jeffrey Harold Loria (born November 20, 1940)[2] is an American art dealer, 
and the owner of the Miami Marlins. Loria was born and raised to a Jewish 
family[3] in Manhattan, the son of Ruth (Ost) and Walter J. Loria, a lawyer.[4][5][6] 
Loria took an early interest in baseball, attending his first New York 
Yankees game in the late 1940s. Loria attended New York City's Stuyvesant 
High School[7] and Yale University, where he initially took pre-med courses. 
With a requirement to take a history class, Loria chose art history. After 
college, he worked in a newly established art-buying program for Sears, 
launched with the help of actor Vincent Price. In 1965, at the age of 24, 
he opened his private art dealing business, Jeffrey H. Loria & Co., on 
Manhattan's Upper East Side and wrote a book, Collecting Original Art. 
He specializes in 20th century masters. His collection includes works by 
Pablo Picasso and Henry Moore. Loria graduated from Columbia Business School 
in 1968 and published his second book, What's It All About Charlie Brown?, 
a look at life through the Peanuts comic strip (co-written with Pat K. 
Lynch). In 1989, Loria purchased the Oklahoma City 89ers, then a Triple-A 
affiliate of the Texas Rangers. The team won the American Association championship 
in 1992. Loria sold the team in 1993 and began looking to buy a Major League 
team. He lost out to Peter Angelos in his bid to purchase the Baltimore 
Orioles in 1994. On December 9, 1999, he bought a 24 percent stake in the 
Montreal Expos for $18 million CAD (approximately $12 million USD) and 
became the managing general partner. He'd initially considered buying the 
team in 1991 from founding owner Charles Bronfman, but Bronfman balked 
at Loria's demand for controlling interest. The team was sold to then-team 
president Claude Brochu instead. Loria headed an ownership group that included 
the city of Montreal, several Montreal businesses, and Stephen Bronfman, 
Charles' son. When a series of cash calls over the next two years went 
unanswered, Loria ended up with 94 percent of the team at a valuation of 
$50M USD.[8] One of Loria's first acts was to reiterate demands for a new 
park for the Expos to replace Olympic Stadium, of which he bluntly said, 
"We cannot stay here."[9] He lost a considerable amount of goodwill with 
Expos fans when the team was not able to reach an agreement for television 
and English-speaking radio coverage during the 2000 season, as the Expos 
tried to increase their revenue from broadcast rights. He also sought more 
public funding for a planned downtown ballpark, Labatt Park.[8] However, 
the provincial and municipal governments balked at committing more money 
to the project. Premier Lucien Bouchard said that he couldn't support using 
public funds to build ballparks when the province was being forced to shut 
down hospitals. Additionally, Bouchard didn't like that Olympic Stadium 
still hadn't been paid for 25 years after being built[8][9] (and wouldn't 
be paid for, as it turned out, until 2006). In 2002, as part of an orchestrated 
move with Bud Selig and then-Marlins owner John W. Henry, Loria sold the 
Expos to "Expos Baseball, LP", a partnership of the other 29 major league 
clubs, for $120 million. In effect, the Expos were sold to the commissioner's 
office. Henry then sold the Marlins to Loria for $158.5 million, including 
a $38.5 million no-interest loan from MLB. The deal was approved by the 
other owners before Loria and Henry even signed a contract, and paved the 
way for Henry to buy the Boston Red Sox.[10] Loria moved the Expos' entire 
front office staff, on-field staff, office equipment and computer equipment 
to Florida.[11] MLB's plans to contract the Expos and Minnesota Twins failed, 
though, as the Twins were compelled through legal action to fulfill the 
terms of their lease at the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome. Loria's partners 
in the Expos ownership consortium filed a Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt 
Organizations Act (RICO) lawsuit against Loria and Major League Baseball, 
but it eventually went to arbitration, with the arbitration panel finding 
in favor of Loria.[12] The Expos were ultimately transferred to Washington, 
D.C. as the Nationals. While the move was welcomed by baseball fans in 
Washington, it has led to many bitter feelings among Montreal – as well 
as Canadian – baseball fans. Many speculate that Loria never intended to 
keep the team in Montreal.[11] The feelings among some Canadian baseball 
fans are so strong that when Loria chose Remembrance Day to announce his 
team's new name and stadium, Richard Griffin, a well-known Canadian baseball 
columnist wrote: In 2003, the Marlins won their second World Series. Loria 
designed the 3½ ounce World Series rings that contain 228 white diamonds, 
13 rubies and one teal diamond.[13] In 2013, Forbes evaluated the current 
value for the Florida Marlins around $520 million.[14] As of May 12, 2009, 
the Marlins are 569–564 under Loria.[15] On November 11, 2011, the Florida 
Marlins officially rebranded themselves the Miami Marlins with a new logo, 
uniform, and color scheme.[16] The franchise, which previously paid rent 
at Sun Life Stadium, had been trying for years to finance a new retractable 
roof ballpark. The City of Miami and Miami-Dade County both voted to approve 
construction of a new baseball stadium for the Marlins. Marlins Park is 
located in the area formerly occupied by the Miami Orange Bowl football 
stadium. Construction was completed by opening day 2012. Before the stadium 
deal was in place, the team shed star players to pare down payroll to among 
baseball's lowest in 2006, and was given permission to explore options 
for relocating. The team then worked with the City of Miami and Miami-Dade 
County, in a public/private partnership, to build the 37,000 seat ballpark.[17] 
A deal with the City of Miami and Miami-Dade County was eventually approved 
and the Marlins agreed to contribute $155 million toward the construction 
of a new retractable roof stadium. They were also made responsible for 
any cost overruns for the stadium, set in the Little Havana section of 
Miami. Financing for the facility was completed with tourist bed taxes 
and funds reserve specifically for convention centers and sporting facilities.The 
deal required taxpayer general funds to compensate all cost overruns, but 
the facility was completed on-time and under-budget. The Marlins receive 
100% of all revenues from the stadium, but must pay all costs associated 
with operating the facility. The first Major League Baseball game in the 
new stadium was against the 2011 World Series Champion St. Louis Cardinals 
on April 4, 2012. Following a disappointing season in which the Marlins 
finished last in their division, the Marlins completed a 12-player trade 
on November 19, 2012 with the Toronto Blue Jays as part of an effort to 
pare down the team's payroll. This led local and national sportswriters, 
as well as Marlins fans, to criticize Loria's stated intentions of building 
a competitive team. Much of the controversy stemmed from the demands on 
local government to fund much of the construction at Marlins Park.[18] 
Although the Marlins faced the threat of boycotts during the 2013 season 
from local residents, politicians, and sportswriters, Loria defended the 
November 2012 trade with the Blue Jays. He claimed that despite the Marlins' 
hefty payroll in 2012, the fans did not sell out the facility as imagined 
and that the organization was not winning and needed "to take a new course" 
in order to do so.[19] Loria is considered a "meddlesome" owner.[20] In 
April 2013, Loria reportedly had Ricky Nolasco and José Fernández switch 
the games of a doubleheader in which they were scheduled to pitch, violating 
clubhouse protocol.[21] In July 2013, hitting coach Tino Martinez, who 
had been handpicked by Loria, resigned following allegations that he verbally 
and physically assaulted players, including Chris Valaika. When the organization 
considered promoting Valaika to the majors in August when Plácido Polanco 
was placed on the disabled list, Loria vetoed the transaction, and the 
team promoted Gil Velazquez instead. He is also been called one of the 
most dishonest owners by numerous publications such as ESPN and named one 
of the worst owners in sports by Rolling Stone magazine.[22] Loria, who 
still runs his art dealership, is a member of the board of directors of 
the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law of Yeshiva University in New York. 
He formerly served on the board of the Art Dealers Association of America. 
