Jeffrey "Jeff" Maier (born November 15, 1983) is an American baseball fan 
who received international media attention for an incident in which he 
was involved as a 12-year-old at a baseball game. During Game 1 of the 
1996 American League Championship Series between the New York Yankees and 
the Baltimore Orioles, Maier deflected a batted ball, hit by Derek Jeter, 
into the Yankee Stadium stands for what umpires ruled to be a home run, 
rather than fan interference. His action altered the course of Game 1,[1] 
as the resulting home run allowed the Yankees to tie the score.[2] They 
won the game and would go on to win the series four games to one. On October 
9, 1996, the Yankees trailed the Orioles 4–3 in the bottom of the eighth 
inning when shortstop Derek Jeter hit a deep fly ball to right field. Right 
fielder Tony Tarasco moved near the fence and appeared "to draw a bead 
on the ball"[3] when the then-12-year-old Maier clearly reached over the 
fence separating the stands and the field of play 9 feet below, snatched 
the ball with a glove of his own. While baseball fans are permitted to 
catch (and keep) balls hit into the stands, if "a spectator reaches out 
of the stands, or goes on the playing field, and touches a live ball"[4] 
spectator interference is to be called. Right field umpire Rich Garcia 
immediately ruled the play a home run, tying the game at 4–4, despite the 
protest of Tarasco and Orioles manager Davey Johnson (the latter was ejected 
in the ensuing argument). The Yankees won the game in the eleventh inning 
on Bernie Williams' walk-off home run. The Orioles maintained their protest 
of the Maier play after the conclusion of the game, but their protest was 
denied by American League President Gene Budig because judgment calls cannot 
be protested. After viewing the replay, Garcia admitted that there was 
spectator interference, though he maintained the ball was not catchable.[5] 
Garcia's contention that the ball was not catchable has been disputed.[6] 
Had Garcia ruled it spectator interference, he would have then used his 
own judgment to determine what the most likely outcome of the play would 
be—either an out or awarding Jeter a given number of bases. The Yankees 
went on to win the series against Baltimore, four games to one, as well 
as the World Series against the Atlanta Braves. As a result of the play, 
a railing was added behind the right field wall at Yankee Stadium to prevent 
fans from reaching over it. Meanwhile, in New York, Maier became a minor 
celebrity. The New York Daily News allowed him to sit behind the Yankee 
dugout later in the postseason. The boy appeared on national talk shows. 
Maier grew up in Old Tappan, New Jersey, and played baseball there at Northern 
Valley Regional High School at Old Tappan.[7] He then played college ball 
at Wesleyan University in Middletown, Connecticut, where he was a first-team 
all-NESCAC selection. He also played briefly for the Pittsfield Dukes in 
the New England Collegiate Baseball League in the summer of 2005. In 2006, 
he became Wesleyan's career hits leader and was featured on ESPN. The New 
York Times reported that Maier hoped for a career in baseball. That spring, 
the Washington Post and MLB.com reported that, ironically, the Baltimore 
Orioles might draft him—though the team denied ever having an interest 
in him.[8] Maier was also invited to a try out for the New York Yankees. 
However, he was not selected by any team in the 2006 Major League Baseball 
Draft. Maier worked in the summer of 2006 as a scout in the Cape Cod League 
for ESPN's Peter Gammons and also as an instructor for Frozen Ropes Baseball 
Training Center. Maier later become a special consultant for the New Haven 
County Cutters[9] and had several internships, including with the YES Network. 
In addition, he served as an extra and assisted with baseball skills training 
for the actors in ESPN's miniseries about the 1977 Yankees, The Bronx Is 
Burning.[10] Ruttman, Larry (2013). "Jeffrey Maier: Fan and Tenth Player". 
American Jews and America's Game: Voices of a Growing Legacy in Baseball. 
Lincoln, Nebraska and London, England: University of Nebraska Press. pp. 337=344. 
ISBN 978-0-8032-6475-5.  This chapter in Ruttman's history, based on a 
February 14, 2008 interview with Maier conducted for the book, discusses 
Maier's American, Jewish, baseball, and life experiences from youth to 
