Jered David Weaver (born October 4, 1982) is an American professional baseball 
starting pitcher who is a free agent. He has played for the Los Angeles 
Angels of Anaheim of Major League Baseball (MLB). Weaver was drafted in 
the first round (12th overall) in the 2004 Major League Baseball Draft 
by the Angels out of Long Beach State. He is currently the longest tenured 
player on the Angels' roster. He is the younger brother of former pitcher 
Jeff Weaver. Weaver grew up in Simi Valley, California, and attended Simi 
Valley High School.[1] Weaver attended college at California State University, 
Long Beach. Weaver went 37–9 during his baseball career at Long Beach State. 
In his final season of 2004, he became the top pro pitching prospect in 
the country, going 15–1, with a 1.62 earned run average (ERA), 213 strikeouts 
and just 21 walks in 144 innings. After the 2004 season, he won the Golden 
Spikes Award as the top amateur baseball player in America, the Dick Howser 
Trophy as the national collegiate baseball player of the year, the Roger 
Clemens Award as college baseball's top pitcher, and was named starting 
pitcher on the All-American first team by Baseball America. A 2004 Los 
Angeles Times called him dominating, describing his pitching as overwhelming 
"batters with a fastball between 89 and 94 mph, a sharp slider and an improving 
curveball all thrown with the same three-quarter arm delivery. He also 
has a fiery streak that is revealed with a fist pump or yell after a strikeout 
that ends an inning or a long at-bat." The article compared him to 2001 
college pitching sensation Mark Prior.[2] Weaver was originally speculated 
to be one of the top three overall draft picks in 2004; however, the bonus 
demands of his agent, Scott Boras, turned off several teams. On draft day, 
Baseball America asked "Where In The World Is Jered Weaver Going? That 
is the $10.5 million question. No team is claiming him as a possible first-round 
pick, and there's no sense that a club is lying in the weeds on him. He 
and adviser Scott Boras don't seem to be backing down from a reported desire 
for Mark Prior money, and he could slide through the entire first round 
altogether."[3] Weaver was drafted in the 1st round (12th pick overall) 
by the Angels in the 2004 Major League Baseball Draft. The Angels scouting 
director Eddie Bane said he did not know until two minutes before the draft 
that he'd definitely get the opportunity to choose Weaver. Bane told Baseball 
America about their scouting, "We did our homework. We started when Jered 
first got to Long Beach. I watched him in intrasquad games back in January. 
All our guys had seen him. We didn't back off because of reports in the 
paper. We do our stuff privately. We were prepared if he was there at 12 
to take him."[4] However, negotiations did not proceed smoothly. Talks 
broke down multiple times. Boras and client Weaver held out until the last 
minutes before the May 2005 deadline, becoming the longest holdout in draft 
history. Weaver received a $4 million signing bonus, less than the $10.5 
million originally sought and also less than a $7–8 million range mentioned 
in the media just months before signing.[5] Weaver's ascent to the major 
leagues was quick. He made his Major League debut on May 27, 2006, a total 
of just 361 days after signing with the club.[6] He spent just over one 
month in Single-A before being promoted to Double-A where he would finish 
2005 3–3 with a 3.98 ERA. In 2006, Weaver moved up to Triple-A Salt Lake 
where he dominated hitters. MiLB wrote of Weaver's success, "It's fairly 
common for prospects to struggle in their first exposure to Triple-A ball, 
but the 23-year-old Weaver dominated the Pacific Coast League almost immediately, 
posting a 6–1 record with a 2.10 ERA in 12 games for the Bees."[6] Angels 
management were impressed enough to call Weaver up when ace Bartolo Colón 
was on the disabled list. He made his MLB debut on May 27, 2006, starting 
against the Baltimore Orioles. He pitched seven shutout innings, striking 
out five, and earning the victory. This was followed with three more consecutive 
victories. Despite his success, when Bartolo Colón returned from the disabled 
list, Weaver was bumped out of the rotation and sent back down to the minors. 
He was recalled to the majors on June 30, 2006, when the Angels designated 
his brother Jeff for assignment. Weaver continued his impressive performance, 
at one point lowering his ERA to 1.12 after six starts. He won his first 
nine decisions at the start of his major league career, tying the American 
League record set by Whitey Ford in 1950. Weaver recorded his first loss 
on August 24, 2006, when he lost to the Boston Red Sox, despite allowing 
only one earned run in seven innings pitched, a home run to David Ortiz. 
He finished the season with an 11–2 record and a 2.56 ERA and placed fifth 
in the American League Rookie of the Year Award voting.[7] On June 28, 
2008, he and José Arredondo combined to no-hit the Los Angeles Dodgers 
over eight innings, but still lost the game 1–0. This was only the fourth 
time in major league history that a no-hit bid was unable to go nine innings 
because of the home team winning the game, and the first as a combined 
effort. Because they did not pitch nine innings, it is not officially considered 
a no-hitter.[8] Weaver made his first career relief appearance against 
the Boston Red Sox at Fenway Park in Game 3 of the 2008 ALDS. He recorded 
the win in the bottom of the 12th inning in order to keep the Angels, who 
previously were down 2–0 in the series, hopes of winning the series alive. 
On June 14, 2009, Weaver had his first complete game shutout against the 
San Diego Padres. On June 20, 2009, Weaver started for the Angels against 
the Los Angeles Dodgers. The opposing starter was his older brother Jeff 
Weaver. This was the first pitching matchup between brothers since 2002 
when Andy and Alan Benes matched up and only the 15th such game since 1967.[9] 
The Dodgers won 6–4, with Jeff getting the win and Jered taking the loss.[10] 
Weaver was awarded the inaugural Nick Adenhart Pitcher of the Year award, 
named after Jered's teammate, for best pitcher on the Angels roster. Weaver 
reached a deal with Angels management for a $4.265 million salary for the 
2010 season to avoid going into arbitration. During Spring Training, he 
added a two-seam fastball to his repertoire after instruction from teammates 
Scot Shields and Joel Piñeiro.[11] After the departure of John Lackey to 
the Boston Red Sox through free agency, there was some uncertainty over 
who would assume the role of the club's ace. Many expected that position 
to be filled by Weaver, who said, "Sure, I'd love to have that role. But 
I really don't like to think about it. I just try to improve every year, 
and this year is no exception."[12] Weaver was the Angels' Opening Day 
starter, beating the Minnesota Twins at Angel Stadium on an ESPN national 
broadcast. On July 6, despite not having been initially selected, Weaver 
was chosen to replace CC Sabathia on the American League roster for the 
2010 All-Star Game due to the latter's ineligibility to pitch. He joined 
Torii Hunter as the only Halos representing the host club for Angel Stadium's 
third Mid-Summer Classic, though he did not pitch in the game.[13] The 
All-Star selection was well-deserved, as Weaver posted the best season 
of his short big league tenure thus far. Weaver was the major league strikeout 
champion with 233, besting Mariners ace Félix Hernández by a single strikeout. 
He also posted career-bests in innings pitched (with 224.1), ERA (3.01), 
and WHIP (1.07). Weaver's success was not reflected in his win-loss record, 
however, as he went 13–12 due in part to poor run support. Despite the 
uncertainty over the role earlier in the season, Weaver embraced and ably 
fulfilled his new responsibility as the team's ace in 2010. He finished 
5th in AL Cy Young award voting.[citation needed] Weaver picked up right 
where he left off the 2010 season, serving as the Angels' ace along with 
co-ace Dan Haren. Weaver posted a 6-0 record and a 0.99 ERA in his first 
six starts, setting a major league record for first pitcher to reach 6 
wins by April 25. Weaver struck out a career-high 15 batters on April 10, 
2011, in a game against the Toronto Blue Jays. Weaver became the second 
pitcher in major league history to win his sixth game in just his team's 
twenty-third game, which tied him with Randy Johnson in 2002.[14] Through 
the All-Star break on July 10, Weaver had an 11–4 record and 1.86 ERA in 
140.1 innings, complemented by 120 strikeouts, just 31 walks, and a WHIP 
of 0.91. In July, Weaver's fellow players elected him to his second All-Star 
Game. On July 11, manager Ron Washington announced that Weaver would start 
the 2011 All-Star Game for the American League.[15] In his one scoreless 
inning of work at the All-Star Game, Weaver had one strikeout (Carlos Beltrán), 
one walk (Matt Kemp) and no hits. On July 31, in a game against the Detroit 
Tigers, Weaver gave up a solo home-run to Carlos Guillén who watched the 
home-run and then stared at Weaver as he flipped his bat, upsetting Weaver. 
Weaver exchanged words with Guillen as he made his trot around the bags, 
and the home plate umpire issued warnings to both dugouts. The first pitch 
to the next batter, Alex Avila, was thrown just over Avila's head. Avila 
ducked, and Weaver was immediately ejected from the game by home-plate 
umpire Hunter Wendelstedt, along with Angels Manager Mike Scioscia. Weaver 
was suspended for six games because of the incident. In August 2011, Jered 
Weaver signed an $85 million contract with the Angels for 5 years.[16] 
Weaver finished the 2011 season with an 18–8 record and a 2.41 earned run 
average, which was edged out by Justin Verlander's 2.40 for the American 
League lead and was the lowest ERA by an Angel since Chuck Finley's 2.40 
in 1990. He finished 2nd in the AL Cy Young Voting.[citation needed] Starting 
off the 2012 season, Weaver pitched a four-hit shutout against Kansas City 
Royals on April 6. Shortly thereafter, he recorded his first official career 
no-hitter on May 2 against the Minnesota Twins. Weaver allowed only two 
baserunners – Chris Parmelee reached on a passed ball after a strikeout 
in the second inning, and Josh Willingham walked in the seventh, he struck 
out nine and walked only the one batter. On May 28, Weaver sustained a 
lower back injury after following through on a pitch and was subsequently 
placed on the 15-day disabled list.[17] Nearing the end of the season and 
with the Angels still in contention for a postseason spot, Weaver for the 
first time in his career won his twentieth game, on September 28 against 
the Texas Rangers.[18] On April 7, 2013, Weaver suffered a fractured left 
elbow following a base hit by Mitch Moreland of the Texas Rangers. Weaver 
dodged the line drive by Moreland and ended up injuring the elbow as he 
rolled on the mound. He was placed on the 15-day disabled list the next 
day after he left the game. He returned on May 29, 2013 against the Los 
Angeles Dodgers pitching 6 innings with 7 strikeouts. Weaver finished the 
2014 season with a record of 18-9 while having a 3.59 ERA in 213.1 innings 
pitched. The 2015 season was a tough one for Weaver as he suffered his 
first losing season in his career (7-12 in 26 starts) while also registering 
a then career-high ERA (4.64). Throughout the season, Weaver suffered continued 
decrease in velocity, clocking in under 86MPH. In his final season before 
free agency, Weaver continued to struggle with velocity and command, ending 
with the highest ERA of his career (5.06). He narrowly avoided another 
losing season, however, going 12-12. Weaver begins his windup standing 
on the extreme third base side of the pitcher's plate, and strides slightly 
toward the third base side. This, combined with his 6'7" height and long 
arms, creates a pitch traveling at a sharp angle to home plate, making 
pitch detection more difficult, especially for right handed batters. Weaver's 
arsenal consists of six pitches: His two-seamer is his most-commonly thrown 
pitch, especially to left-handed hitters. He uses the two-seamer, his curveball, 
and his changeup to get ahead against left-handers. Weaver typically only 
throws his slider and four-seamer to lefties when there is a 2-strike count. 
He also uses the changeup with 2 strikes, but not the curveball. Against 
right-handers, Weaver uses the four-seamer and slider most of the time, 
and he rarely uses his curveball. His slider is effective in 2-strike counts 
because of its high tendencies to get swings and misses (42% of swings 
through the first two months of the 2012 season).[19] On February 9, 2007, 
he and his brother had their jerseys retired by Simi Valley High School 
in a basketball game between Royal High School and Simi Valley.[20] Weaver 
is on the cover of MVP 07: NCAA Baseball, in his college uniform. Weaver 
and his girlfriend of nine years, Kristin Travis, got married in November 
2011. Both are active supporters of Special Olympics Southern California 
and Weaver serves as a Sports Ambassador for the organization. On July 
5, 2013, Kristin Weaver gave birth to their first child, a son named Aden 
David Weaver in honor of Jered's late friend and teammate Nick Adenhart. 
Weaver's wife also gave birth to a daughter in 2014. Weaver writes the 
letters "NA" on the back of the pitcher's mound in memoriam of his friend 
and teammate Nick Adenhart. He is the younger brother of former Major League 
