Jerry Howarth (born March 12, 1946) is an American Canadian recognized 
as the voice of the Toronto Blue Jays, doing the play-by-play for the team's 
radio broadcasts, a position he has held for the Major League Baseball 
(MLB) team since 1981. Born in York, Pennsylvania, and raised in San Francisco, 
California, Howarth grew up an avid sports fan. He graduated with a degree 
in Economics from the University of Santa Clara in 1968, then served two 
years in the U.S. Army. He launched his career as a sportscaster in 1974 
by calling play-by-play action for AAA baseball's Tacoma Twins of the Pacific 
Coast League, as well as baseball and football action for the University 
of Puget Sound in Tacoma, Washington. In 1976, Howarth became the play-by-play 
voice of the Salt Lake City Gulls, also of the Pacific Coast League. Howarth 
was then hired as the Assistant General Manager and performed double duty 
as play-by-play man for the Salt Lake City Prospectors of the short-lived 
Western Basketball Association. Howarth was then hired by the NBA's Utah 
Jazz before joining KWMS radio in Salt Lake as Sports Director and sports 
talk show host.[1] In 1981, Howarth split his time between his radio duties 
in Salt Lake and his new career in Toronto where he worked part of the 
1981 Blue Jays season as a commentator. In 1982, he joined Tom Cheek as 
full-time play-by-play partner. For the next 23 years, "Tom and Jerry" 
would be the radio voice of the Blue Jays. Their partnership covered the 
rise of the Blue Jays through the 1980s, culminating with back to back 
World Series Championships in 1992 and 1993. In 2004, Tom Cheek was diagnosed 
with brain cancer, but continued to broadcast with Howarth. Cheek's health 
continued to deteriorate, eventually forcing him to discontinue his broadcasting 
career midway through the 2005 season. Howarth became the sole play-by-play 
broadcaster for Blue Jays games at this time and Warren Sawkiw filled in 
as analyst. Cheek died on 9 October 2005. Sawkiw continued to work alongside 
Howarth through the end of the 2006 Blue Jays season. In 2007, Sawkiw was 
replaced in the booth by former Blue Jay catcher Alan Ashby. Howarth continued 
to be the lead voice of the Toronto Blue Jays with Ashby serving as game 
analyst, until the end of the 2012 season. Howarth worked alongside Jack 
Morris in 2013, and with Joe Siddall since 2014. Host of "Blue Jays Talk" 
Mike Wilner also provided play-by-play for some innings, Duane Ward supplied 
colour commentary for some games during the 2014 and 2015 season and Kevin 
Barker supplied color for some games during the 2016 season. In October 
2016, prior to the American League Championship Series between Toronto 
and Cleveland, Howarth revealed in an interview on CJCL that in 1992, he 
had quietly taken a vow to not use team nicknames or expressions on-air 
that he considered to be offensive to aboriginal Canadians or Native Americans, 
such as the Atlanta Braves and Cleveland Indians. He began the practice 
after receiving a letter from a listener who was a member of a First Nation 
group, whose writer explained that the names were offensive. Howarth felt 
the letter was written "in such a loving, kind way" and that it had "touched 
[his] heart", which led him to respect their wishes.[2] Renu Mandhane, 
chief commissioner of the Ontario Human Rights Commission, supported Howarth's 
position, and called upon other media outlets to stop using the name in 
the wake of Cleveland's playoff series.[3] Howarth, who became a Canadian 
citizen in 1994,[4] lives in Toronto with his wife Mary. They have two 
sons, Joe and Ben.[5] He also coaches basketball at Etobicoke Collegiate 
Institute.[6] Howarth is also known for his active support and fund raising 
