As player: As executive: Jerry Colangelo (born November 20, 1939) is an 
American businessman and sports executive who currently serves as a special 
adviser to the Philadelphia 76ers. He formerly owned the Phoenix Suns of 
the NBA, the Phoenix Mercury of the WNBA, the Arizona Sandsharks of the 
Continental Indoor Soccer League, the Arizona Rattlers of the Arena Football 
League and the Arizona Diamondbacks of Major League Baseball. He was also 
instrumental in the relocation of the original Winnipeg Jets team in the 
NHL to Phoenix to become the Phoenix Coyotes (now the Arizona Coyotes). 
In 2014, Grand Canyon University renamed its Christian based school of 
business after Jerry Colangelo, replacing Ken Blanchard's name sake.[1] 
He became the youngest general manager in professional sports in 1968 after 
being hired as general manager for the Phoenix Suns. He has the second 
longest tenure running the same NBA franchise, exceeded only by Red Auerbach 
of the Boston Celtics.[2] In the summer of 2005, Colangelo was named director 
of USA Basketball whose team represented the United States in the 2008 
Beijing Olympics and 2010 FIBA World Championship. Since 2009, he has served 
as Chairman of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame.[3] Colangelo 
also serves as Chairman of the National Italian American Foundation (NIAF), 
a nonprofit nonpartisan educational foundation that promotes Italian American 
culture and heritage. Colangelo has been known for a no-nonsense ownership 
style. Players like the Suns' Dennis Johnson and Jason Kidd and the Diamondbacks' 
Bobby Chouinard have been traded or released after their personal problems 
became public. Colangelo was born and raised in Chicago Heights, Illinois, 
to an Italian-American working class family.[4] He played basketball and 
baseball for Bloom Township High School. Colangelo enrolled at the University 
of Kansas, but transferred to the University of Illinois after prospective 
teammate Wilt Chamberlain left. He played basketball for the Illinois Fighting 
Illini, earned All-Big Ten honors, and captained the Illini as a senior. 
He was later inducted into the Illinois Basketball Hall of Fame. Colangelo 
also played two years of baseball at Illinois.[5] In 1962, he graduated 
from the University of Illinois with a degree in physical education.[4] 
In his autobiography, How You Play the Game, Colangelo tells of working 
after graduating college at the House of Charles, a tuxedo rental shop 
in Chicago Heights.[6] Colangelo began his career in professional basketball 
with the Chicago Bulls. He worked as a marketing director, scout, and assistant 
to the president of the team.[7] In 1968, he left the Bulls and was hired 
as the first general manager of the expansion team, the Phoenix Suns. He 
was the youngest general manager in professional sports.[8] When he and 
his family left for Arizona, he had $200 in his wallet.[6] Colangelo got 
off to an unlucky start, losing a 1969 coin flip to the Milwaukee Bucks 
for the rights to UCLA phenom Lew Alcindor (now known as Kareem Abdul-Jabbar). 
The Suns were competitive most of the 1970s, making it to the NBA Finals 
in 1976, but losing to the Boston Celtics in six games. Colangelo had two 
stints as head coach during that decade, compiling a record of 59 wins 
and 60 losses. During much of the 1980s, Colangelo's Suns faced trouble. 
Some players, including 1976 NBA Finals player Garfield Heard, were involved 
in an infamous drug scandal, young center Nick Vanos died in a 1987 plane 
crash, and, from 1985 through 1988, the Suns failed to qualify for the 
playoffs. Colangelo put together a group that bought the Suns in late 1987, 
in the wake of the drug scandal. He subsequently made a trade for Kevin 
Johnson in 1987. The Suns made one of the biggest turnarounds in NBA history 
in 1988–89, nearly doubling their win total (from 28 wins to 55) and making 
the first of 13 straight playoff appearances. In 1989, Colangelo was an 
essential part of the group that planned to build America West Arena (now 
Talking Stick Resort Arena), providing financial backing. In 1992, Colangelo 
traded Jeff Hornacek, Tim Perry, and Andrew Lang to the Philadelphia 76ers 
for Charles Barkley. The trade proved to be productive for the Suns, and 
they reached the NBA Finals for the second time in 1993, this time losing 
to the Bulls in six games. Barkley's relationship with Colangelo, however, 
grew sour over the years, and in 1996, he was traded to the Houston Rockets. 
Throughout his time with the Suns, Colangelo would win four different NBA 
Executive of the Year honors with the team. It would stand to be the most 
honors for an executive of one team in the NBA. He eventually turned over 
the Suns' presidency to his son Bryan, who eventually left the organization 
to become general manager of the Toronto Raptors. Bryan would end up winning 
two NBA Executive of the Year honors: one with Phoenix, and one with Toronto 
only two seasons later. On December 7, 2015, Colangelo decided to return 
to the NBA to become the new Chairman of Basketball Operations for the 
Philadelphia 76ers,[9] as well as special adviser to the team's managing 
partner.[10] On April 7, 2016, Colangelo's son, Bryan, would take on the 
role of general manager and president of basketball operations for the 
76ers after their former president and general manager, Sam Hinkie resigned 
from his position before the 2015-16 season was at an end due to irreconcilable 
differences with Jerry.[11] The move would reunite the Colangelos for the 
first time since 2004 with the Phoenix Suns. Colangelo stepped down from 
his position of Chairman of Basketball Operations following the hiring 
of his son, but he retained his role as special adviser to the managing 
partner.[12] Colangelo has been involved in many professional sports teams 
in Arizona. While in Chicago for a Suns game, Colangelo attended a Chicago 
Cubs baseball game at Wrigley Field. Soon thereafter he decided to inquire 
to Major League Baseball about bringing an expansion team to Arizona. He 
assembled a group of investors in 1994 to buy a franchise, the year prior 
to MLB's proposed expansion selection meetings. In 1995, Colangelo's group 
was granted an expansion team, the Arizona Diamondbacks. The Diamondbacks 
began playing in 1998. For his new baseball club, Colangelo hired Joe Garagiola, 
Jr. as General Manager. He also brought in Buck Showalter coming off a 
successful stint as manager of the New York Yankees. Showalter and Yankees 
owner George Steinbrenner did not agree to a contract extension, so Colangelo 
quickly hired Showalter as future manager of the Diamondbacks. These hirings 
proved to be instrumental to the expansion franchise's quick success. Notable 
moves made by Garagiola included the signing of Randy Johnson in 1999 and 
a trade for Curt Schilling in 2000 from the Philadelphia Phillies. They 
were co-MVPs of the 2001 World Series when the Diamondbacks beat the Yankees 
in seven games. This was the first major professional sports championship 
for the Phoenix area. Colangelo resigned as Managing General Partner in 
summer of 2004. Ken Kendrick took responsibility as the lead among the 
team's investors. In 1997, Colangelo's team in the Women's National Basketball 
Association, the Phoenix Mercury, began playing. The following year, the 
Mercury reached the WNBA Finals but lost to the Houston Comets. In 1992, 
Colangelo founded the Arena Football League's Arizona Rattlers and owned 
them until 2005. Under Colangelo's guidance, the Rattlers won Arena Bowl 
championships in 1994 and 1997. They were also one of the AFL's model franchises 
and were a perennial playoff team. According to published reports, the 
Rattlers struggled to stay afloat as a franchise after Colangelo sold the 
team.[13] Colangelo was also involved in bringing the National Hockey League 
(NHL) to Arizona, transferring the Winnipeg Jets to the area as the Phoenix 
Coyotes in 1996. The move made Phoenix one of only a few metropolitan areas 
with franchises in all four major North American professional sports leagues). 
The team plays in the Phoenix suburb of Glendale. In April 2004, Colangelo 
sold the Suns, Mercury and Rattlers to an investment group headed by San 
Diego, California businessman, Tucson, Arizona native Robert Sarver for 
$401 million. Late in the 2004 baseball season, Colangelo sold his controlling 
interest in the Arizona Diamondbacks to a group of investors led by Jeff 
Moorad.[14] Jerry Colangelo is part of an investment group planning development 
in Buckeye, Arizona. They have planned a 300,000+ residence development 
called Douglas Ranch and a smaller 7,000 acres (30 km2) development called 
Trillium.[15] Colangelo purchased the bankrupt Wigwam Resort in Litchfield 
Park, Arizona. In 2011, Jerry Colangelo assisted in creating Grand Canyon 
University's Colangelo School of Sports Business and served as an advisor. 
On September 25, 2014 Grand Canyon University announced their college of 
business would be renamed Colangelo College of Business.[16] Colangelo 
has been named the NBA's Executive of the Year four times (1976, 1981, 
1989, 1993). He is an honorary member of the Marchegiana Society of his 
hometown, Chicago Heights, Illinois. A street in that city bears his name. 
On May 9, 2002, Colangelo was awarded an honorary degree from Arizona State 
University. On April 4, 2004, Colangelo was elected to the Naismith Basketball 
Hall of Fame.[17] On November 4, 2007, Colangelo was inducted into the 
Phoenix Suns Ring of Honor at the halftime of a Suns game against the Cleveland 
Cavaliers. He is the National Leadership Director of the National Italian 
American Sports Hall of Fame and is also a Hall of Fame inductee.[2] It 
is located in the Colangelo Building on Taylor Street in Little Italy, 
Chicago. Colangelo is a Christian. Colangelo has spoken about his faith 
saying, "The first priority in life is to have that relationship with Jesus 
Christ. So your faith is number one. ... God [has] a plan for my life. 
You know, the way I’ve tried to live my life is I have this platform, it 
was given to me by the Lord. And He’s blessed me with a lot of things. 
And someday I’m going to be held accountable with what I did with those 
things."[18] Colangelo is married to Joan, whom he met on a blind date 
while at college.[5] They have four children: Kathy Holcombe, Kristen Young, 
Mandie Adams, and Bryan Colangelo.[4] Bryan was also the President of the 
Toronto Raptors until 2013, before joining his father again with the Philadelphia 
