As Player As General Manager Gerard Peter Dipoto (born May 24, 1968) is 
an American baseball executive and former professional player. He is currently 
the general manager of the Seattle Mariners of Major League Baseball[1] 
and previously worked in front office positions for the Arizona Diamondbacks, 
Los Angeles Angels, and Boston Red Sox. Dipoto played in MLB for the Cleveland 
Indians, New York Mets, and Colorado Rockies from 1993 through 2000. Dipoto 
was born to Gerard & Barbara Dipoto and has two siblings, Marc Dipoto and 
Lori Dipoto-Dorsey. He played high school baseball at Toms River High School 
North in Toms River, New Jersey. He enrolled at Virginia Commonwealth University 
(VCU) and played college baseball for the VCU Rams.[citation needed] The 
Cleveland Indians selected Dipoto in the third round of the 1989 Major 
League Baseball Draft.[2] He made his major league debut in 1993. After 
the 1994 season, the Indians traded Dipoto with Paul Byrd, Dave Mlicki 
and a player to be named later (minor leaguer Jesus Azuaje) to the New 
York Mets for Jeromy Burnitz and Joe Roa.[3] After the 1996 season, he 
was traded by the Mets to the Colorado Rockies for Armando Reynoso.[4] 
Forced to retire during the spring of 2001, Dipoto went to work in the 
Colorado Rockies front office as a special assistant to then-general-manager 
Dan O'Dowd. In 2003 he became a scout for the Boston Red Sox, and in 2004 
was a part of the World Series winning team as a scout. In 2005 he returned 
to the Rockies as the head of professional scouting. When Josh Byrnes, 
who Jerry had known since his days as a Rockies player, became the General 
Manager of the Arizona Diamondbacks, he went with Byrnes to Arizona and 
became the Director of Scouting and Player Personnel. Byrnes was fired 
on July 1, 2010 and Dipoto was named interim General Manager.[5] On September 
22, Kevin Towers was named the new Diamondbacks General Manager. Dipoto 
was offered the opportunity to remain with the Diamondbacks.[6] On October 
28, 2011, the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim announced Dipoto would be their 
next general manager, replacing Tony Reagins.[7] Angels' owner Arte Moreno 
said that "one of the reasons we hired Jerry is that I really liked the 
way he viewed baseball analytics." However, Dipoto and manager Mike Scioscia 
disagreed regarding the use of analytics in baseball decisions,[8] and 
a rift developed between the two when Dipoto fired Mickey Hatcher from 
the role of the team's hitting coach.[9] Despite rumors that the Angels 
might replace either Dipoto or Scioscia after the 2013 season,[10] Moreno 
announced that both would return to the Angels for the 2014 season.[11] 
Tension between Dipoto and Scioscia continued during the 2015 season regarding 
the way Scioscia and his coaches delivered statistical reports developed 
by Dipoto and the front office to their players.[12] Dipoto resigned his 
post on July 1, 2015.[13] On August 12, 2015 the Boston Red Sox hired Jerry 
Dipoto in an advisory role.[14] After the Seattle Mariners fired Jack Zduriencik 
after seven years with the club, they launched a GM search which lasted 
exactly one month, culminating with the hiring of Dipoto on September 28, 
2015.[1] He and his wife, Tamie, have three children: Taylor, Jordan, and 
Jonah. He is also a thyroid cancer survivor, having undergone curative 
