Jerry Pritikin is best known for being the lifelong Chicago Cubs fan, known 
as the Bleacher Preacher. Pritikin became a Cubs fan in 1945 at the age 
of eight, when the Cubs were in the World Series and he begged his father 
to take him to a game. While his father denied the request, he did promise 
to take Pritikin the next time the Cubs made it to the series (a feat the 
Cubs accomplished in 2016).[1] Pritkin did start going to Cubs games with 
his brothers and sisters. In 1960 he moved to San Francisco, where he worked 
as a photographer, selling his photos to wire services and local newspapers.[1] 
He started attending baseball games at Candlestick Park, where he gained 
notoriety as a Cubs fan. In 1981, he became a paid consultant for a production 
of Bleacher Bums, coaching the cast on how Chicago Cubs fans acted.[1] 
Pritikin moved back to Chicago in 1985 and began to attend Cubs games at 
Wrigley Field regularly. Pritikin admired the Cubs fan known as "Slow Motion 
Happy" if the mid-40s and decided to put together his own character, which 
would later be called the "Bleacher Preacher". The Bleacher Preacher became 
famous around Chicago for his routine.[2] During Cubs games at the "Friendly 
Confines," Pritikin would sit in the bleachers. [3] He would attempt to 
convert fans of opposing teams as the "Bleacher Preacher".[4] As the Bleacher 
Preacher, Pritikin wore a solar-powered propeller pith helmet. He carried 
around a lifesize voodoo doll that would be dressed in the uniforms of 
various visiting teams. Pritikin also carried around "The Ten Cub-Mandments", 
a sign fashioned after the Ten Commandments. In 2014, Jerry Pritikin was 
named the recipient of the HILDA Award given by Baseball Reliquary in Pasadena 
Ca. Hilda was named after the fabled fan of the Brooklyn Dodgers,known 
for her Cowbell. The Award is given to fans who have contributed to the 
game of Baseball. Pritikin is largely the subject of the Lonny Wheeler 
book Bleachers. Edgar Lenze interviewed Pritikin for his documentary about 
Chicago Cubs fans entitled Keep the Faith.[4] During the 1980 his name 
and likeness would often appear in newspapers. Broadcaster Harry Caray 
