Jerry Lindsey Martin (born May 11, 1949) is a former Major League Baseball 
outfielder. On November 17, 1983, Martin and Kansas City Royals teammates 
Willie Aikens and Willie Wilson received three-month prison terms on misdemeanor 
cocaine possession charges. They became the first active major leaguers 
to serve jail time. Martin was born in Columbia, South Carolina, and attended 
Furman University in Greenville. He starred in basketball, and was named 
the All-Southern Conference Tournament Most Valuable Player[1] in 1971 
after leading the Furman Paladins to their first conference championship.[2] 
Despite his prowess in basketball, he decided to follow his father, Barney 
Martin, who pitched in the majors with the Cincinnati Reds, as well as 
his younger brother, Michael, a left handed pitcher selected fifth overall 
in the 1970 Major League Baseball draft by the Philadelphia Phillies.[3] 
A year later, Jerry signed with the club as an amateur free agent. Despite 
having spent three seasons together in the same organization, the brothers 
were never teammates. Martin earned Western Carolinas League MVP honors 
in 1972, when he batted .316 with twelve home runs and 112 runs batted 
in for the Spartanburg Phillies. Over four seasons in the Phillies' farm 
system, Martin batted .303 with 43 home runs and 290 RBIs to earn a September 
call-up to the majors in 1974. Making his major league debut as a late 
inning defensive replacement for Greg Luzinski on September 7, Martin did 
not log an at-bat.[4] When given his first major league at bat two days 
later, he drove in Luzinski with the first run of the Phillies' 2-0 victory 
over the St. Louis Cardinals.[5] After splitting the 1975 season between 
the Phillies and the triple A Toledo Mud Hens, Martin spent the entire 
1976 season serving as a late inning defensive replacement for Luzinski. 
He appeared in 130 games, but logged only 129 at-bats. He made just one 
plate appearance in the 1976 National League Championship Series against 
the Cincinnati Reds. He drew a walk, and scored on Jay Johnstone's triple 
in the ninth inning of the third game.[6] Despite having been a promising 
prospect for the Phillies, Martin would never rise above fourth outfielder 
status over his next two seasons with the Phillies. Just as pitchers and 
catchers were reporting to Spring training in 1979, Martin was sent to 
the Chicago Cubs in a blockbuster deal. He, Barry Foote, Ted Sizemore and 
minor leaguers Derek Botelho and Henry Mack went to the Cubs for Greg Gross, 
Dave Rader and Manny Trillo.[7] Finally given the opportunity to start, 
Martin had a career year his first season in Chicago. Playing centerfield 
and batting sixth in the Cubs' line-up, Martin clubbed nineteen home runs, 
and drove in 73 runs while scoring 74. He followed that up with a career 
high 23 home runs in 1980. After a contract dispute, Martin asked to be 
traded, and was sent to the San Francisco Giants with Jesús Figueroa and 
a player to be named later for Phil Nastu and Joe Strain at the 1980 Winter 
meetings.[8] Martin signed a five-year deal shortly after arriving in San 
Francisco, however, his tenure with the Giants ended up being shorter than 
expected. His numbers dipped in the strike shortened 1981 season, as he 
hit just four home runs and drove in 25 while batting .241. After just 
one season with the Giants, Martin was dealt to the Kansas City Royals 
for pitchers Rich Gale and Bill Laskey.[9] A new position came with his 
change of scenery, as Martin was shifted to right field with the Royals. 
He got off to a hot start in Kansas City, batting .304 with five home runs 
and 25 RBIs through May. Though he would cool off by the end of the season, 
his .266 batting average, fifteen home runs and 65 RBIs in 1982 was a marked 
improvement over his previous season. He got off to a fast start in 1983 
as well, but a muscle tear in his right wrist ended his season on April 
24.[10] Toward the end of the 1983 season, Martin and several of his Royals 
teammates were questioned by U.S. Attorney Jim Marquez in connection with 
a federal cocaine probe. Following the season, he, Willie Aikens and Willie 
Wilson pleaded guilty to attempting to purchase cocaine, while former teammate 
Vida Blue pleaded guilty to possession of three grams of cocaine.[11] On 
November 17, Martin, Aikens, Blue and Wilson were all sentenced to a year 
in prison, with nine months of it suspended, and ordered to surrender to 
a Fort Worth, Texas minimum security federal correctional institution on 
December 5 (Aikens was given until January 5 in order to complete a drug 
treatment program).[12] Martin was released early from prison on February 
23, 1984,[13] however, Baseball commissioner Bowie Kuhn subsequently suspended 
all four players for the entire 1984 season. The suspensions were reduced 
after appeal, and the four were allowed to return to their teams on May 
15. By then, Martin had signed with the New York Mets.[14] Martin joined 
the Mets on May 16 in San Francisco.[15] Through 51 games with the Mets, 
Martin managed just a .154 batting average, three home runs and five RBIs, 
and was released on September 30. A bid for a comeback in 1985 found no 
takers, so he retired.[16] Martin took a coaching job in the Phillies' 
minor league system shortly after his retirement. He spent the first six 
weeks of the 2008 season as interim first base coach for the eventual World 
Champion Phillies while Davey Lopes was undergoing treatment for prostate 
cancer.[17] Martin most recently served as hitting coach for the Detroit 
Tigers' double A affiliate, the Erie SeaWolves, in 2011 and 2012.[18] He 
is the son of Barney Martin, who pitched in a single game for the Cincinnati 
