James Cleveland "Jesse" Owens (September 12, 1913 – March 31, 1980) was 
an American track and field athlete and four-time Olympic gold medalist 
in the 1936 games. Owens specialized in the sprints and the long jump and 
was recognized in his lifetime as "perhaps the greatest and most famous 
athlete in track and field history".[2] His achievement of setting three 
world records and tying another in less than an hour at the 1935 Big Ten 
track meet in Ann Arbor, Michigan, has been called "the greatest 45 minutes 
ever in sport"[3] and has never been equalled. At the 1936 Summer Olympics 
in Berlin, Germany, Owens won international fame with four gold medals: 
100 meters, 200 meters, long jump, and 4 × 100 meter relay. He was the 
most successful athlete at the games and, as a Black man, was credited 
with "single-handedly crush[ing] Hitler's myth of Aryan supremacy", although 
he "wasn't invited to the White House to shake hands with the President, 
either."[4] The Jesse Owens Award is USA Track and Field's highest accolade 
for the year's best track and field athlete. Owens was ranked by ESPN as 
the sixth greatest North American athlete of the twentieth century and 
the highest-ranked in his sport.[5] Owens was the youngest of ten children, 
three girls and seven boys, born to Henry Cleveland Owens (a sharecropper) 
and Mary Emma Fitzgerald in Oakville, Alabama, on September 12, 1913. J.C., 
as he was called, was nine years old when the family moved to Cleveland, 
Ohio, for better opportunities, as part of the Great Migration, when 1.5 million 
African Americans left the segregated South. When his new teacher asked 
his name (to enter in her roll book), he said "J.C.", but because of his 
strong Southern accent, she thought he said "Jesse". The name stuck, and 
he was known as Jesse Owens for the rest of his life.[6] As a boy, Owens 
took different jobs in his spare time: he delivered groceries, loaded freight 
cars and worked in a shoe repair shop while his father and older brother 
worked at a steel mill.[7] During this period, Owens realized that he had 
a passion for running. Throughout his life, Owens attributed the success 
of his athletic career to the encouragement of Charles Riley, his junior 
high track coach at Fairmount Junior High School. Since Owens worked in 
a shoe repair shop after school, Riley allowed him to practice before school 
instead. Owens and Minnie Ruth Solomon (1915–2001) met at Fairmount Junior 
High School in Cleveland when he was 15 and she was 13. They dated steadily 
through high school. Ruth gave birth to their first daughter, Gloria, in 
1932. They married on July 5, 1935 and had two more daughters together: 
Marlene, born in 1939, and Beverly, born in 1940. They remained married 
until his death in 1980.[8][9] Owens first came to national attention when 
he was a student of East Technical High School in Cleveland; he equalled 
the world record of 9.4 seconds in the 100-yard (91 m) dash and long-jumped 
24 feet 9 1⁄2 inches (7.56 metres) at the 1933 National High School Championship 
in Chicago.[10] Owens attended The Ohio State University after employment 
was found for his father, ensuring the family could be supported. Affectionately 
known as the "Buckeye Bullet," and under the coaching of Larry Snyder, 
Owens won a record eight individual NCAA championships, four each in 1935 
and 1936. (The record of four gold medals at the NCAA was equaled only 
by Xavier Carter in 2006, although his many titles also included relay 
medals.) Though Owens enjoyed athletic success, he had to live off campus 
with other African-American athletes. When he traveled with the team, Owens 
was restricted to ordering carry-out or eating at "blacks-only" restaurants. 
Similarly, he had to stay at "blacks-only" hotels. Owens did not receive 
a scholarship for his efforts, so he continued to work part-time jobs to 
pay for school. Owens's greatest achievement came in a span of 45 minutes 
on May 25, 1935, during the Big Ten meet at Ferry Field in Ann Arbor, Michigan, 
where he set three world records and tied a fourth. He equaled the world 
record for the 100 yard dash (9.4 seconds); and set world records in the 
long jump (26 ft 8 1⁄4 in or 8.13 m, a world record that would last 25 
years); 220-yard (201.2 m) sprint (20.3 seconds); and 220-yard (201.2m) 
low hurdles (22.6 seconds, becoming the first to break 23 seconds).[4] 
In 2005, University of Central Florida professor of sports history Richard 
C. Crepeau chose these wins on one day as the most impressive athletic 
achievement since 1850.[11] In 1936, Owens arrived in Berlin to compete 
for the United States at the Summer Olympics. According to fellow American 
athlete James LuValle, who won bronze in the 400 meters, Owens arrived 
in Berlin to a throng of fans, many of them young girls, yelling "Wo ist 
Jesse? Wo ist Jesse?" Many of them had come with scissors and had begun 
snipping at Owens' clothing, forcing him to retreat back onto the train. 
After that, when Owens left the athletes' village, he usually had to go 
with some soldiers to protect him.[12] Owens's success at the games represented 
a counter to Adolf Hitler, who was using the games to show the world a 
resurgent Nazi Germany.[13] He and other government officials had high 
hopes that German athletes would dominate the games with victories. Meanwhile, 
Nazi propaganda promoted concepts of "Aryan racial superiority" and depicted 
others, including those of African descent, as inferior.[13][14] Owens 
countered this by winning four gold medals. On August 3, he won the 100 
m sprint with a time of 10.3 s, defeating teammate college friend[1] Ralph 
Metcalfe by a tenth of a second and defeating Tinus Osendarp of the Netherlands 
by two tenths of a second. On August 4, he won the long jump with a leap 
of 8.06 m (26 ft 5 in), later crediting his achievement to the technical 
advice he received from Lutz Long, the German competitor whom he defeated.[4] 
On August 5, he won the 200 m sprint with a time of 20.7 s, defeating Mack 
Robinson (the older brother of Jackie Robinson). On August 9, Owens won 
his fourth gold medal in the 4 × 100 m sprint relay when coach Dean Cromwell 
replaced Jewish-American sprinters Marty Glickman and Sam Stoller with 
Owens and Ralph Metcalfe, who teamed up with Frank Wykoff and Foy Draper 
to set a world record of 39.8 s in the event.[15] This performance was 
not equaled until Carl Lewis won gold medals in the same events at the 
Soviet-boycotted 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles. In 1935 (the year 
before the Berlin Olympics), Owens set the world record in the long jump 
with a leap of 8.13 m (26 ft 8 in), and this record would stand for 25 
years (a very rare length of time for a track and field record), until 
it was finally broken by countryman Ralph Boston in 1960. Coincidentally, 
Owens was a spectator at the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome when Boston took 
the gold medal in the long jump. Just before the competitions, Owens was 
visited in the Olympic village by Adi Dassler, the founder of the Adidas 
athletic shoe company. He persuaded Owens to wear Gebrüder Dassler Schuhfabrik 
shoes, the first sponsorship for a male African American athlete.[16] The 
long-jump victory is documented, along with many other 1936 events, in 
the 1938 film Olympia by Leni Riefenstahl. On the first day of competition, 
Hitler shook hands with only the German victors and then left the stadium. 
Olympic committee officials insisted Hitler greet every medalist or none 
at all. Hitler opted for the latter and skipped all further medal presentations.[17][18] 
Historians have noted that Hitler may have left the games at this time 
due to looming rain clouds that might have postponed the games. This happened 
well before Owens was to compete, but has largely come to be believed to 
be the "snub".[19] On reports that Hitler had deliberately avoided acknowledging 
his victories, and had refused to shake his hand, Owens said at the time: 
Hitler had a certain time to come to the stadium and a certain time to 
leave. It happened he had to leave before the victory ceremony after the 
100 meters. But before he left I was on my way to a broadcast and passed 
near his box. He waved at me and I waved back. I think it was bad taste 
to criticize the 'man of the hour' in another country.[20] Albert Speer 
wrote that Hitler "was highly annoyed by the series of triumphs by the 
marvelous colored American runner, Jesse Owens. People whose antecedents 
came from the jungle were primitive, Hitler said with a shrug; their physiques 
were stronger than those of civilized whites and hence should be excluded 
from future games."[21] In a 2009 interview, Siegfried Mischner, a German 
journalist, claimed that Owens carried around a photograph in his wallet 
of the Führer shaking his hand before the latter left the stadium. Owens, 
who felt the newspapers of the day reported 'unfairly' on Hitler's attitude 
towards him, tried to get Mischner and his journalist colleagues to change 
the accepted version of history in the 1960s. Mischner claimed Owens showed 
him the photograph and told him: "That was one of my most beautiful moments." 
Mischner added "(the picture) was taken behind the honour stand and so 
not captured by the world's press. But I saw it, I saw him shaking Hitler's 
hand!" According to Mischner, "the predominating opinion in post-war Germany 
was that Hitler had ignored Owens, so we therefore decided not to report 
on the photo. The consensus was that Hitler had to continue to be painted 
in a bad light in relation to Owens." [22] For some time, Mischner's assertion 
was not confirmed independently of his own account,[23] and Mischner himself 
admitted in Mail Online that "All my colleagues are dead, Owens is dead. 
I thought this was the last chance to set the record straight. I have no 
idea where the photo is or even if it exists still."[24] However, in 2014, 
Eric Brown, British fighter pilot and test pilot, the Fleet Air Arm's most 
decorated living pilot,[25] independently stated in a BBC documentary "I 
actually witnessed Hitler shaking hands with Jesse Owens and congratulating 
him on what he had achieved."[26] Additionally, an article in The Baltimore 
Sun in August 1936 reported that Hitler sent Owens a commemorative inscribed 
cabinet photograph of himself.[27] In Germany, Owens had been allowed to 
travel with and stay in the same hotels as whites, at a time when African 
Americans in many parts of the United States had to stay in segregated 
hotels.[28] During a Manhattan ticker-tape parade along Broadway's Canyon 
of Heroes in his honor, someone handed Owens a paper bag. Owens paid it 
little mind until the parade concluded. When he opened it up, he found 
the bag contained $10,000 in cash. Owens's wife Ruth later said, "And he 
[Owens] didn't know who was good enough to do a thing like that. And with 
all the excitement around, he didn't pick it up right away. He didn't pick 
it up until he got ready to get out of the car."[29] After the parade, 
Owens was not permitted to enter through the main doors of the Waldorf 
Astoria New York and instead forced to travel up to the event in a freight 
elevator to reach the reception honoring him.[28][30] President Franklin 
D. Roosevelt (FDR) never invited Jesse Owens to the White House following 
his triumphs at the Olympics games.[31] While the Democrats had bid for 
the support of Owens, Owens rejected those overtures: as a staunch Republican, 
he endorsed Roosevelt's Republican opponent, Alf Landon, in the 1936 presidential 
race.[32] Owens, who joined the Republican Party after returning from Europe, 
was paid to campaign for African American votes for the Republican presidential 
nominee Alf Landon in the 1936 presidential election.[33][34] Speaking 
at a Republican rally held in Baltimore on October 9, 1936, Owens said 
"Some people say Hitler snubbed me. But I tell you, Hitler did not snub 
me. I am not knocking the President. Remember, I am not a politician, but 
remember that the President did not send me a message of congratulations 
because, people said, he was too busy."[35] Later, on October 15, 1936 
Owens repeated this allegation when he addressed an audience of African 
Americans at a Republican rally in Kansas City remarking that "Hitler didn't 
snub me – it was our president who snubbed me. The president didn't even 
send me a telegram."[36][37] Owens was quoted saying the secret behind 
his success was "I let my feet spend as little time on the ground as possible. 
From the air, fast down, and from the ground, fast up."[38][39] After the 
games had finished, the Olympic team and Owens were all invited to compete 
in Sweden. He decided to capitalize on his success by returning to the 
United States to take up some of the more lucrative commercial offers. 
United States athletic officials were furious and withdrew his amateur 
status, ending his career immediately. Owens was angry, saying, "A fellow 
desires something for himself."[40] Owens argued that the racial discrimination 
he had faced throughout his athletic career, such as not being eligible 
for scholarships in college and therefore being unable to take classes 
between training and working to pay his way, meant he had to give up on 
amateur athletics in pursuit of financial gain elsewhere.[41] Prohibited 
from amateur sporting appearances to bolster his profile, Owens found out 
that the commercial offers had all but disappeared. In 1937, he briefly 
toured with a twelve-piece jazz band under contract with Consolidated Artists, 
but found it unfulfilling. He also made appearances at baseball games and 
other events.[42] Finally, friend and former competitor from the University 
of Michigan, Willis Ward, brought Owens to Detroit to work at Ford Motor 
Company in 1942 as Assistant Personnel Director, later becoming Director, 
where he worked until 1946. In 1946, Owens joined Abe Saperstein in the 
formation of the West Coast Baseball Association (WCBA), a new Negro baseball 
league; Owens was Vice-President and the owner of the Portland (Oregon) 
Rosebuds franchise.[43] He toured with the Rosebuds, sometimes entertaining 
the audience in between doubleheader games by competing in races against 
horses.[44] The WCBA disbanded after only two months.[43][44] Owens helped 
promote the exploitation film Mom and Dad in African American neighborhoods.[citation 
needed] He tried to make a living as a sports promoter, essentially an 
entertainer. He would give local sprinters a ten- or twenty-yard start 
and beat them in the 100-yd (91-m) dash. He also challenged and defeated 
racehorses; as he revealed later, the trick was to race a high-strung thoroughbred 
that would be frightened by the starter's shotgun and give him a bad jump. 
Owens said, "People say that it was degrading for an Olympic champion to 
run against a horse, but what was I supposed to do? I had four gold medals, 
but you can't eat four gold medals."[45] On the lack of opportunities, 
Owens added, "There was no television, no big advertising, no endorsements 
then. Not for a black man, anyway."[41] Owens ran a dry cleaning business 
and worked as a gas station attendant to earn a living; he eventually filed 
for bankruptcy. In 1966, he was successfully prosecuted for tax evasion.[46] 
At rock bottom, he was aided in beginning his rehabilitation. The government 
appointed him as a US goodwill ambassador. Owens traveled the world and 
spoke to companies such as the Ford Motor Company and stakeholders such 
as the United States Olympic Committee.[citation needed] After he retired, 
he owned racehorses. Owens initially refused to support the black power 
salute by African-American sprinters Tommie Smith and John Carlos at the 
1968 Summer Olympics. He told them:[47] The black fist is a meaningless 
symbol. When you open it, you have nothing but fingers – weak, empty fingers. 
The only time the black fist has significance is when there's money inside. 
There's where the power lies. Four years later in his 1972 book I Have 
Changed, he moderated his opinion: I realized now that militancy in the 
best sense of the word was the only answer where the black man was concerned, 
that any black man who wasn't a militant in 1970 was either blind or a 
coward. A few months before his death, Owens had tried unsuccessfully to 
convince President Jimmy Carter to withdraw his demand that the United 
States boycott the 1980 Moscow Olympics. He argued that the Olympic ideal 
was supposed to be observed as a time-out from war and that it was above 
politics.[citation needed] Owens, a pack-a-day cigarette smoker for 35 years, 
had been hospitalized with an extremely aggressive and drug-resistant type 
of lung cancer on and off beginning in December 1979. He died of the disease 
at age 66 in Tucson, Arizona, on March 31, 1980, with his wife and other 
family members at his bedside.[48] He is buried in Oak Woods Cemetery in 
Chicago. The dormitory used by Owens during the Olympics has been fully 
restored into a living museum, with pictures of his accomplishments at 
the Games, and a letter (intercepted by the Gestapo) from a fan urging 
