Jesse Russell Orosco (born April 21, 1957) is a former relief pitcher in 
Major League Baseball who holds the major league record for career pitching 
appearances, having pitched in 1,252 games.[1] He pitched most notably 
for the New York Mets in the 1980s. He won a World Series in 1986 with 
the Mets and in 1988 with the Dodgers. He threw left-handed, but batted 
right-handed. He retired in 2003 after having been with the Mets, Dodgers, 
Cleveland Indians, Milwaukee Brewers, Baltimore Orioles, St. Louis Cardinals, 
San Diego Padres, New York Yankees, and Minnesota Twins. He retired when 
he was 46 years old, one of the oldest players to still be playing in the 
modern age. Orosco is one of only 29 players in baseball history to date 
to have appeared in Major League games in four decades. Orosco's longevity 
was greatly aided by the increasing use of left-handed specialist relief 
pitchers from the 1990s onward; in his last several years, he was used 
almost exclusively in this role. Orosco was drafted by the Minnesota Twins 
in the 1978 Major League Baseball Draft. In February 1979, the Twins traded 
Orosco to the New York Mets to complete a deal that had been made two months 
earlier. In December 1978 the Mets traded veteran starter Jerry Koosman 
to the Twins for two players, one of whom was a player to be named later. 
The trade of that player, Orosco, completed the deal. Orosco made his debut 
on April 5, 1979 with the Mets. He played his last game on September 27, 
2003 with the Twins. Orosco had his best seasons in the early and mid-1980s 
with the Mets. He had a career-best 1.47 ERA in 1983. That year, he also 
won 13 games and saved 17, with 110 innings pitched, making his first All-Star 
Team and finishing third in the National League Cy Young Award voting. 
He had 31 saves in 1984, which was 3rd in the National League, and went 
10–6 in 60 appearances; good enough for his second All-Star selection. 
In 1985, he began sharing closing duties for the Mets with right-hander 
Roger McDowell, giving the Mets a vaunted lefty–righty combo coming out 
of the bullpen to close games. In 1983, Orosco became just the third and, 
to date, the last Mets pitcher to record two wins in the same day. This 
feat had been accomplished by Craig Anderson in 1962 and Willard Hunter 
in 1964. On July 31, 1983, Banner Day, the Mets won both games of a double-header 
against the Pirates in extra-inning walk-off wins. Orosco pitched the last 
four innings of the first game and the final inning of the second game, 
and both times was the pitcher of record when the Mets rallied to win.[2] 
Orosco's clutch relief pitching in the 1986 postseason was one of the key 
reasons the Mets were world champions. He was on the mound for the final 
pitch of the final game of both the NLCS against the Houston Astros, and 
the World Series against the Boston Red Sox. Orosco ended both series by 
striking out the final batter. Orosco also provided one of the most memorable 
images of that World Series and it would become an iconic image to the 
Mets and their fans: after striking out Marty Barrett to end the series, 
he threw his glove way up in the air and immediately dropped to his knees 
while catcher Gary Carter ran out to the mound to embrace him. The photo 
was taken by Mets photographer George Kalinsky, who's also the photographer 
at Madison Square Garden. For many years, this was the final scene shown 
during the ending credits of the syndicated Major League Baseball news 
show This Week in Baseball. Having also become the first (and only) relief 
pitcher to get three wins in one playoff series (which he accomplished 
in the NLCS against the Astros), Orosco would primarily be remembered for 
that year. Coincidentally, Jerry Koosman, whom the Mets had traded to Minnesota 
in the deal that brought Orosco to New York, was on the mound for the final 
out of the 1969 World Series—to date, the only other Fall Classic the Mets 
have won. The final batter in that World Series, Davey Johnson, would be 
Orosco's manager on the '86 World Championship team. After getting traded 
away by the Mets in a huge deal involving over seven players, he found 
a very brief one-year home with the Dodgers, and then signed with Cleveland 
and stayed there for three years. His only real recognizable home besides 
the Mets came in Baltimore when he stayed with the Orioles for the latter 
half of the 1990s. While his best seasons came in New York, he had an excellent 
1997 season, finishing with a 2.32 ERA, his best since the 1980s. On June 
25, 1999, Orosco set the all-time record for major league relief appearance 
with 1,051 passing Kent Tekulve.[3] His playing career was still not finished 
though. In 2003, he was on three different teams and finished with 33 innings 
pitched. The 2003 season also marked his return to New York, this time 
though with the Yankees. He was traded to the Yankees from the San Diego 
Padres for a player to be named later.[4] He signed with the Arizona Diamondbacks 
for the 2004 season but decided to retire before spring training and finish 
a historic career. He was eligible for the Baseball Hall of Fame in 2009; 
however, his lifetime stats made him a longshot for the Hall. He was the 
last active MLB player from the 1970s, outlasting Rickey Henderson (the 
last active position player) by over a week. While Henderson got inducted 
on the first ballot, Orosco was off future Baseball Writers Association 
of America ballots after only receiving one vote. He finished his career 
with an ERA of 3.16, and is the all-time record holder for games (by a 
pitcher), with 1252. He has 74 more than Mike Stanton who is second with 
