As player As manager William James Fanning (September 14, 1927 – April 
25, 2015) was an American-Canadian catcher, manager and front office executive 
in Major League Baseball. Often called "Gentleman Jim", Fanning was the 
first general manager of the Montreal Expos of the National League (appointed 
in August 1968), and served the Expos in a number of capacities for almost 
25 years. As their field manager in 1981, he guided Montreal into the playoffs 
for the only time in the 36-year history of the franchise.[1] Born in Chicago, 
Fanning attended Buena Vista College in Storm Lake, Iowa. In his professional 
playing days, he was a catcher who played most of his career in the minor 
leagues. He spent the 1957 season and parts of three others with the Chicago 
Cubs between 1954 and 1957, compiling an anemic batting average of .170 
with no home runs and 24 hits. He then became a manager in the minor leagues, 
eventually joining the Milwaukee/Atlanta Braves organization, where in 
the middle of the 1960s he was promoted to the positions of Director of 
Minor League Operations and assistant general manager. Fanning was briefly 
listed as a coach for the 1968 Braves, but before the season began he resigned 
to become the first director of the Central Scouting Bureau. Just months 
later, when his old Milwaukee boss, John McHale, became the first president 
of the expansion Expos, Fanning accompanied him to Canada as the Expos' 
general manager. Fanning and McHale built the Expos from scratch; in those 
days, prior to the era of free agency, newly formed clubs could only rely 
on expansion and amateur drafts and trades to build their talent base. 
Fanning drafted wisely in the 1968 NL expansion lottery, and parlayed some 
of his drafted players to obtain via trade Rusty Staub from the Houston 
Astros. Dubbed le Grand Orange, Staub was one of the early folk heroes 
of les Expos, along with fellow outfielder Mack Jones and no-hit pitcher 
(and future Expos' executive) Bill Stoneman. Just prior to the 1972 season, 
Fanning traded Staub to the New York Mets for three regulars – shortstop 
Tim Foli, outfielder Ken Singleton and first baseman Mike Jorgensen – who 
helped Montreal contend for the NL East title in 1973. Overall, with opportunistic 
manager Gene Mauch at the helm, Fanning achieved a degree of success during 
his eight years as GM, but when Montreal regressed in 1976, Fanning was 
replaced by Charlie Fox. He then served in a number of front office posts 
with Montreal, including director of scouting, when, during the 1981 stretch 
run, he was called back into uniform. Manager Dick Williams, who had led 
the Expos into contention in 1979 and 1980, had alienated his players and 
clashed with the front office over his use of bullpen closer Jeff Reardon. 
With 27 games left in the season, Williams was sacked and Fanning was named 
his replacement. The move came as something of a surprise; he hadn't managed 
in almost 20 years. Fanning's calm and easygoing style favorably contrasted 
with Williams' hard edge, and the Expos won 16 of their last 27 games to 
capture the second-half NL East title, thus qualifying for the playoffs 
per 1981's strike-shortened, split-season format. The Expos then defeated 
the defending world champion Philadelphia Phillies in the first round of 
the playoffs to advance to the NLCS against the Los Angeles Dodgers. In 
the deciding fifth game, on what became known in Montreal as "Blue Monday" 
(October 19, 1981), Los Angeles outfielder Rick Monday hit a tie-breaking 
home run in the ninth inning off Montreal ace pitcher Steve Rogers. The 
Dodgers won, 2–1, and advanced to the World Series, where they defeated 
the New York Yankees. None knew it then, but 1981 would represent Montreal's 
only trip to the baseball playoffs; in 2005, the club relocated to Washington, 
D.C., and became the Washington Nationals. Fanning returned as pilot in 
1982, but the Expos finished a disappointing third, six games behind the 
St. Louis Cardinals. Fanning moved back into the front office, handing 
over the baseball manager's job to Bill Virdon, recently fired by the Houston 
Astros. But Virdon could not arrest the Expos' decline in 1983 and was 
fired with 30 games left in the 1984 campaign. Once more, Fanning came 
down to the field and took over the club, but with poor (14–16) results, 
as the team finished a disappointing fifth. Fanning, with a career major 
league managing record of 116–103 (.530), hung up his uniform at the close 
of the 1984 season and returned to Montreal's front office. He was succeeded 
as pilot by Buck Rodgers. After a brief stint as a color commentator on 
Expos radio and TV broadcasts, Fanning left the Montreal organization, 
working next as a scout for the Colorado Rockies prior to becoming an assistant 
general manager and then ambassador to amateur baseball/Canada for the 
Toronto Blue Jays. He was elected to the Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame 
in St. Marys, Ontario, in 2000, and received his Canadian citizenship in 
2012. Fanning died as the result of a heart attack on April 25, 2015, at 
