Jimmie William Price (born October 13, 1941) is a former catcher in Major 
League Baseball who played with the Detroit Tigers from 1967 to 1973. He 
is also the current color commentator for the Detroit Tigers Radio Network.[1] 
Price was originally signed by the Pittsburgh Pirates in 1960, and was 
listed as a top prospect in the Pirates early 1960s yearbooks. Price's 
best minor league season was 1963, when he hit 19 home runs and batted 
.311 for the Kinston Eagles of the Single-A Carolina League. For his efforts 
he was named the Pirates Minor League Player of the Year. His Major League 
debut came with the Detroit Tigers in 1967 after his contract was purchased 
from the Pirates. 1967 was also his best major league season, when he hit 
.261 in 44 games. He also played on the 1968 Tigers, who won the World 
Series over the St. Louis Cardinals in seven games. During his time with 
the Tigers, Price served as the backup catcher to starter Bill Freehan. 
Price began his broadcasting career as a sports anchor for Detroit TV station 
WJBK in the 1970s,[citation needed] and first worked as a color analyst 
on the Tigers' cable telecasts with PASS Sports in 1993, moving to the 
Detroit Tigers Radio Network in 1998.[1] He worked alongside Hall of Fame 
broadcaster Ernie Harwell from 1999 to 2002. Currently, Price teams with 
play-by-play announcer Dan Dickerson on the Tigers' radio broadcasts.[1] 
As a former catcher, Price offers insight into baseball strategy, especially 
into pitching strategy including each pitcher's "arsenal." Since he handled 
pitchers in his major league career, Price informs fans about approaches 
to various hitters. He often refers to the Tigers as "we."[2] Price was 
absent for five games early in the 2012 season due to health trouble. According 
to Price, he had not previously missed an assignment in twenty years.[3] 
In May, Price would miss a nine-game road trip, again for health reasons. 
He was replaced in both absences by former Tigers pitcher Dan Petry.[4] 
For several years Price called play-by-play of the middle innings of each 
radio broadcast, and often announced "[player name]...touch 'em all" after 
a Tiger hit a home run. This was considered annoying by many listeners, 
but also considered a vast improvement from his previously used call of 
"This is gone but not forgotten,[player name]...touch 'em all" which was 
considered too wordy for describing something as succinct as a home run 
and often would detract from the actual moment. Another trademark of his 
is saying "nice area" whenever a city in Michigan is mentioned, most often 
by his broadcasting partner. At the start of each game broadcast, Jim Price 
says 'Beautiful' after partner Dickerson welcomes the listeners. Price 
often talks about "the art of pitching" when a Tiger's pitcher is having 
a good game. When a hitter connects solidly with the ball, Price will frequently 
say that the batter put his "buggy whip" on it, or that the ball was in 
his "buggy whip" area. Price – whose son, Jackson, is autistic – was instrumental 
in the formation of Jack's Place For Autism, a non-profit organization 
designed to assist families affected by the disability. He was inducted 
