James Alan "Jim" Bouton (/ˈbaʊtn/; born March 8, 1939) is an American retired 
professional baseball player. Bouton played in Major League Baseball (MLB) 
as a pitcher for the New York Yankees, Seattle Pilots, Houston Astros, 
and Atlanta Braves between 1962 and 1978. He has also been a best-selling 
author, actor, activist, sportscaster and one of the creators of Big League 
Chew. Bouton played college baseball at Western Michigan University, before 
signing his first professional contract with the Yankees. He was a member 
of the 1962 World Series champions, appeared in the 1963 MLB All-Star Game, 
and won both of his starts in the 1964 World Series. Later in his career, 
he developed and threw a knuckleball. Bouton authored the baseball book 
Ball Four, which was a combination diary of his 1969 season and memoir 
of his years with the Yankees, Pilots, and Astros. Bouton was born in Newark, 
New Jersey. He lived with his family in Ridgewood, New Jersey until he 
was 15, when his family relocated to Chicago Heights, Illinois. Bouton 
enrolled at Bloom High School, where he played for the school's baseball 
team.[1] Bouton was nicknamed "Warm-Up Bouton" because he never got to 
play in a game, serving much of his time as a benchwarmer. Bloom's star 
pitcher at that time was Jerry Colangelo, who later would become owner 
of the Arizona Diamondbacks and Phoenix Suns. In summer leagues, Bouton 
did not throw particularly hard, but he got batters out by mixing conventional 
pitches with the knuckleball that he had experimented with since childhood. 
Bouton attended Western Michigan University, and pitched for the Western 
Michigan Broncos baseball team. He earned a scholarship for his second 
year. That summer, he played amateur baseball, catching the attention of 
scouts. Yankees scout Art Stewart signed Bouton for $30,000.[1] Bouton 
signed with the Yankees as an amateur free agent in 1959. After playing 
in minor league baseball, Bouton started his major league career in 1962 
with the Yankees, where his tenacity earned him the nickname "Bulldog." 
By this time, he had developed a formidable fastball. He also came to be 
known for his cap flying off his head at the completion of his delivery 
to the plate, as well as for his uniform number 56, a number usually assigned 
in spring training to players designated for the minor leagues. (Bouton 
later explained that he had been assigned the number in 1962 when he was 
promoted to the Yankees, and wanted to keep it as a reminder of how close 
he had come to not making the ball club. He wore number 56 throughout most 
of his major league career.) Bouton appeared in 36 games during the 1962 
season, including 16 starts, and had a win-loss record of 7–7. He did not 
play in the Yankees' 1962 World Series victory over the San Francisco Giants, 
although he had originally been slated to start Game 7. When the game was 
postponed a day because of rain, Ralph Terry pitched instead. Bouton went 
21–7 and 18–13 in the next two seasons, and appeared in the 1963 All-Star 
Game. He was 2–1 with a 1.48 ERA in World Series play. A memorable duel 
between Bouton and Don Drysdale of the Los Angeles Dodgers occurred in 
Game 3 of the 1963 World Series before a crowd of 55,912 at Dodger Stadium. 
Drysdale pitched a three-hit shutout in a 1-0 victory, Bouton giving up 
just four hits for the Yankees. The only run scored in the first inning 
on a walk, wild pitch and single by Tommy Davis that bounced off the pitching 
mound. Bouton won both his starts in the 1964 World Series. He beat the 
St. Louis Cardinals 2-1 with a complete-game six-hitter on Oct. 10 on a 
walk-off home run by Mickey Mantle, then won again on Oct. 14 at Busch 
Stadium, 8-3, backed by another Mantle homer and a Joe Pepitone grand slam. 
Bouton's frequent use by the Yankees during these years (he led the league 
with 37 starts in 1964 in addition to pitching in that year's World Series) 
probably contributed to his subsequent arm troubles. In 1965, an arm injury 
slowed his fastball and ended his status as a pitching phenomenon. Relegated 
mostly to bullpen duty, Bouton began to throw the knuckleball again, in 
an effort to lengthen his career. By 1968, Bouton was a reliever for the 
minor league Seattle Angels. In October 1968, Bouton joined a committee 
of American sportsmen who traveled to the 1968 Summer Olympics, in Mexico 
City, to protest the involvement of apartheid South Africa. Around the 
same time, sportswriter Leonard Shecter—who had befriended Bouton during 
his time with the Yankees—approached him with the idea of writing and publishing 
a season-long diary. Bouton, who had taken some notes during the 1968 season 
after having a similar idea, readily agreed. The diary would chronicle 
Bouton's experiences with the Seattle Pilots, an expansion team that signed 
him for the 1969 season. He had a 2-1 record for them. On May 16 at Fenway 
Park, after Bouton pitched three innings of hitless, scoreless relief against 
the Red Sox, he was the winning pitcher, even though other Seattle relievers 
gave up five runs in the bottom of the 11th inning after the Pilots had 
scored six in the top of the 11th. Bouton was credited with another win 
in September against the Red Sox with 1⅓ innings of relief, again not allowing 
a hit. While Bouton's was not the first baseball diary—Cincinnati Reds 
pitcher Jim Brosnan had written two such books, about his 1959 and 1961 
seasons—it would ultimately become much more widely known, debated, and 
discussed than any that had come before it. Bouton chronicled his 1969 
season with a frank, insider's look at a professional sports team, eventually 
naming his book Ball Four. The backdrop for the book was the Seattle Pilots' 
one and only operating season, though Bouton was traded to the Houston 
Astros late in the season. Unlike previous sports works, Ball Four named 
names and described a side of baseball that was previously unseen. Bouton 
did this by writing about the way a professional baseball team actually 
interacts; not only the heroic game-winning home runs, but also the petty 
jealousies, the obscene jokes, the drunken tomcatting of the players, and 
the routine drug use, including by Bouton himself. Upon its publication, 
baseball commissioner Bowie Kuhn called Ball Four "detrimental to baseball", 
and tried to force Bouton to sign a statement saying that the book was 
completely fictional. Bouton, however, refused to deny any of Ball Four's 
revelations. Many of Bouton's teammates never forgave him for publicly 
airing what he had learned in private about their flaws and foibles. The 
book made Bouton unpopular with many players, coaches, and officials on 
other teams as well, as they felt he had betrayed the long-standing rule: 
"What you see here, what you say here, what you do here, let it stay here." 
Although his comments on Mickey Mantle's lifestyle and excesses make up 
only a few pages of the text, it was those revelations that spawned most 
of the book's notoriety, and provoked Bouton's eventual blacklisting from 
baseball. Oddly, what was forgotten in the furor is that Bouton mostly 
wrote of Mantle in almost reverential tones. One of the book's seminal 
moments occurs when Bouton describes his first win as a Yankee: when he 
entered the clubhouse, he found Mantle laying a "red carpet" of towels 
leading directly to his locker in his honor. Ball Four proved controversial 
enough for long enough that Bouton wrote a followup, I'm Glad You Didn't 
Take It Personally, in which he discussed both the controversies and reactions 
to Ball Four as well as the original end of his pitching career and his 
transition to becoming a New York sportscaster. Bouton retired midway through 
the 1970 season, shortly after the Astros sent him down to the minor leagues. 
After a handful of unsatisfactory appearances, Bouton left baseball to 
become a local sports anchor for New York station WABC-TV, as part of Eyewitness 
News; he later held the same job for WCBS-TV. Bouton also became an actor, 
playing the part of Terry Lennox in Robert Altman's The Long Goodbye (1973), 
plus the lead role of Jim Barton in the 1976 CBS television series Ball 
Four, which was loosely adapted from the book and was canceled after five 
episodes. Decades later, Bouton would also have a brief one-line cameo 
as a pitching coach in the James L. Brooks film How Do You Know. By the 
mid-1970s, a cult audience saw the book Ball Four as a candid and comic 
portrayal of the ups and downs of baseball life. Bouton went on the college 
lecture circuit, delivering humorous talks on his experiences. He authored 
a sequel, I'm Glad You Didn't Take It Personally, and later updated the 
original book with a new extended postscript that provided a ten-year update, 
dubbed Ball Five. Bouton launched his comeback bid with the Portland Mavericks 
of the Class A Northwest League in 1975, compiling a 5–1 record.[1] He 
skipped the 1976 season to work on the TV series, but he returned to the 
diamond in 1977 when Bill Veeck signed him to a minor league contract with 
the Chicago White Sox. Bouton was winless for a White Sox farm club; a 
stint in the Mexican League and a return to Portland followed. In 1978, 
Ted Turner signed Bouton to a contract with the Atlanta Braves. After a 
successful season with the Savannah Braves of the Class AA Southern League, 
he was called up to join Atlanta's rotation in September, and compiled 
a 1–3 record in five starts. His winding return to the majors was chronicled 
in a book by sportswriter Terry Pluto, The Greatest Summer. Bouton also 
detailed his comeback in a 10th anniversary re-release of his first book, 
titled Ball Four Plus Ball Five, as well as adding a Ball Six, updating 
the stories of the players in Ball Four, for the 20th anniversary edition. 
All were included (in 2000) as Ball Four: The Final Pitch, along with a 
new coda that detailed the death of his daughter and his reconciliation 
with the Yankees. After his return to the majors, Bouton continued to pitch 
at the semi-pro level for a Bergen County, New Jersey team called the Emerson-Westwood 
Merchants, among other teams in the Metropolitan Baseball League in northern 
New Jersey, while living in Teaneck, New Jersey.[2] Once his baseball career 
ended a second time, Bouton became one of the inventors of "Big League 
Chew", a shredded bubblegum designed to resemble chewing tobacco and sold 
in a tobacco-like pouch. He also co-authored Strike Zone (a baseball novel) 
and edited an anthology about managers, entitled I Managed Good, But Boy 
Did They Play Bad. His most recent book is Foul Ball (published 2003), 
a non-fiction account of his unsuccessful attempt to save Wahconah Park, 
a historic minor league baseball stadium in Pittsfield, Massachusetts. 
Although Bouton had never been officially declared persona non grata by 
the Yankees or any other team as a result of Ball Four's revelations, he 
was excluded from most baseball-related functions, including Old-Timers' 
Games. It was rumored that Mickey Mantle himself had told the Yankees that 
he would never attend an Old-Timers' Game to which Bouton was invited (a 
charge Mantle subsequently denied, especially during a lengthy answering-machine 
message to Bouton after Mantle's son Billy had died of cancer in 1994 – 
Mantle was acknowledging a condolence card Bouton had sent).[citation needed] 
Things changed in June 1998, when Bouton's oldest son Michael wrote an 
eloquent Father's Day open letter to the Yankees which was published in 
the New York Times, in which Michael described the agony of his father 
following the August 1997 death of Michael's sister Laurie at age 31. By 
juxtaposing the story of Yogi Berra's self-imposed exile with that of his 
father's de facto banishment, Michael created a scenario where not only 
were the Yankees placed under public pressure to invite his father back, 
but the article paved the road to reconciliation between Yankees owner 
George Steinbrenner and Berra. In July 1998, Bouton, sporting his familiar 
number 56, received a standing ovation when he took the mound at Yankee 
Stadium. He has since become a regular fixture at Yankees Old-Timers' Games.[citation 
needed] Bouton and his first wife Bobbie had two children together, Michael 
and Laurie, and adopted a Korean orphan, Kyong Jo. Kyong Jo later changed 
his name to David. Bobbie and Bouton divorced in 1981.[3] In 1983, Bouton's 
ex-wife teamed up with Nancy Marshall, the former wife of pitcher Mike 
Marshall, to write a tell-all book called Home Games. In response to the 
book's publication, Bouton commented: We all have the right to write about 
our lives, and she does, too. If the book is insightful, if it helps people, 
I may be applauding it. I'm sure most of the things she says are true. 
I smoked grass, I ran around, I found excuses to stay on the road. It got 
so bad that I smoked grass to numb myself. It took me a year to where my 
brain worked again. I no longer think of grass as harmless. We were in 
the death throes of a marriage. She should ask herself how did she not 
see these things.[4] In 1997, Laurie was killed in a car accident at age 
31. Bouton is now married to Paula Kurman.[5] They now have six grandchildren. 
Bouton promotes the Vintage Base Ball Federation to form vintage clubs 
and leagues internationally, to codify the rules and equipment of its 19th-century 
origins, and to organize competitions.[1] Bouton was a delegate to the 
