As Manager James Gottfried Frey (born May 26, 1931 in Cleveland, Ohio) 
is a former manager and coach in Major League Baseball. He led the Kansas 
City Royals to their first American League championship in 1980, in his 
first year with the team. In the World Series, they lost to the Philadelphia 
Phillies, who won their first World Series championship. Frey, a lifelong 
friend of Don Zimmer (they were teammates at Western Hills High School 
in Cincinnati), never reached the major leagues as a player. A left-handed-batting 
and -throwing outfielder, he spent much of his career in the farm systems 
of the Boston/Milwaukee Braves and the St. Louis Cardinals, then joined 
the Baltimore Orioles as a scout and minor league manager. He was promoted 
to the Orioles' coaching staff under Earl Weaver in 1970, and coached on 
three American League pennant winners and one World Series champion through 
1979 before his hiring by the Royals. A week after the end of the 1979 
World Series on October 24, Frey was named to succeed Whitey Herzog as 
manager of the Kansas City Royals.[1] He led the Royals to a 97-65 mark 
and the American League West Division title in 1980; then, in the 1980 
American League Championship Series, the Royals defeated their long-time 
postseason nemesis, the New York Yankees in three straight games to capture 
the AL title. (The Yanks had defeated Whitey Herzog's Royals for three 
consecutive seasons (1976–78) in the ALCS). But Frey's Royals dropped the 
World Series to the Philadelphia Phillies in six games. During the strike-marred 
1981 season in which the Royals finished the first half with a 20–30 record, 
Frey was criticized widely for not taking full advantage of a team built 
for speed and for failing to motivate his players by Kansas City vice president/general 
manager Joe Burke. Frey was relieved of his duties on August 31 despite 
the 10–10 ballclub leading the second-half American League West standings. 
His replacement was Dick Howser who had lost his managerial job with the 
Yankees after the previous year's ALCS. Frey's record in just less than 
two seasons as Royals manager was 127–105.[2] Frey then returned to the 
coaching ranks with the New York Mets for 1982–83. Frey was hired by the 
Chicago Cubs for the 1984 season, and again struck paydirt as the Cubs 
won the division title, earning their first post-season appearance since 
1945. During the clubhouse celebration following the division-clinching 
in Pittsburgh, Frey declared, "The monkey's off our back!" The Cubs won 
the first two games against the San Diego Padres in the National League 
Championship Series at Wrigley Field, before they went to San Diego needing 
to win just one of the next three games. The Cubs lost the next three games, 
and many critics blamed Frey for mishandling the pitching staff. Still, 
the 1984 Cubs are revered among Cubs fans. After a trying 1985 season in 
which the entire five-man starting rotation simultaneously spent time on 
the disabled list, the Cubs sputtered in 1986. Frey was fired two months 
into the season and replaced by John Vukovich. The next year, Frey surfaced 
as a color commentator on the Cubs' WGN Radio broadcasts. In December 1987, 
the Tribune Co. hired Frey to replace his old boss, general manager Dallas 
Green, who had resigned two months earlier. Frey hired his lifelong friend, 
Zimmer, to manage the team, and immediately made his presence felt. Within 
weeks of his hire, he dealt relief pitcher Lee Smith to Boston for journeyman 
Al Nipper and Calvin Schiraldi, who was best known for playing a part in 
the Red Sox' 1986 World Series collapse. Frey also traded the popular Keith 
Moreland to San Diego for closer Goose Gossage, who had played a big part 
on the San Diego team that eliminated the Cubs four years earlier. Neither 
move worked, and the Cubs were without a closer. So Frey made a bold move 
in the winter of 1988, trading budding star Rafael Palmeiro and young pitcher 
Jamie Moyer to the Texas Rangers for a number of players, including Mitch 
Williams. The trade paid off for the Cubs in 1989 as Williams saved 36 
games, the Cubs won a division title and Moyer and Palmeiro struggled in 
Texas. But Williams had just one more forgettable year for the Cubs before 
being traded to Philadelphia in 1991, and Palmeiro and Moyer went on to 
have productive careers. After a disappointing 1990 season, Frey was active 
on the free agent market, acquiring former Toronto Blue Jay and 1987 American 
League MVP George Bell, former Cincinnati Reds starting pitcher Danny Jackson 
and former Houston Astros closer Dave Smith. Jackson and Smith flopped 
in their roles in 1991, and Zimmer was fired – apparently on orders from 
Tribune Co. CEO Donald Grenesko in May 1991. Jim Essian, a former journeyman 
catcher and Iowa Cubs manager, replaced Zimmer for the remainder of the 
season. Frey was reassigned within the organization after the 1991 season, 
replaced by former Chicago White Sox general manager Larry Himes. He is 
