James Kenneth McManus (September 24, 1921 – June 7, 2008), better known 
by his professional name of Jim McKay, was an American television sports 
journalist. McKay is best known for hosting ABC's Wide World of Sports 
(1961–1998). His introduction for that program has passed into American 
pop culture. He is also known for television coverage of 12 Olympic Games, 
and is universally respected for his memorable reporting on the Munich 
massacre at the 1972 Summer Olympics. McKay covered a wide variety of special 
events, including horse races such as the Kentucky Derby, golf events such 
as the British Open, and the Indianapolis 500. McKay's son, Sean McManus, 
a protégé of Roone Arledge, is president of CBS Sports and News divisions.[1] 
McKay was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and raised in the Overbrook 
section of the city in an Irish American Roman Catholic family. He attended 
Our Lady of Lourdes Grade School and Saint Joseph's Preparatory School.[2] 
When McKay was 14, he and his family moved to Baltimore, Maryland, where 
he attended Loyola Blakefield high school. He received a bachelor's degree 
from Loyola College in Maryland in 1943.[3] During World War II, he served 
in the United States Navy as the captain of a minesweeper.[4] In 1947, 
McKay gave up his job as a reporter for the Baltimore Sun newspapers to 
join that same organization's new TV station WMAR-TV. His was the first 
voice ever heard on television in Baltimore, and he remained with the station 
until joining CBS in New York in 1950 as host of a variety show, called 
The Real McKay, which necessitated the changing of his on-air surname. 
Through the 1950s, sports commentary became more and more his primary assignment 
for CBS. In 1956-57, McKay teamed with Chris Schenkel to call CBS telecasts 
of New York Giants football. He was originally tabbed to be the lead broadcaster 
of the network's coverage of the 1960 Winter Olympics, but had to be replaced 
by Walter Cronkite after suffering a mental breakdown. McKay recovered 
in time to host the 1960 Summer Olympics from the CBS Television studio 
in Grand Central Terminal.[5] He had a six-episode stint as host of the 
game show Make the Connection on NBC in 1955. He moved on to ABC and was 
the host of ABC's influential Wide World of Sports for 37 years. McKay 
was known to motor racing fans as the host of the ABC's annual delayed 
telecast of the Indianapolis 500. At times McKay worked with race drivers 
in commentary including triple Formula One World Champion Jackie Stewart, 
triple Indy 500 winner Bobby Unser, and Sam Posey. While covering the Munich 
massacre at the 1972 Summer Olympics for ABC, McKay took on the job of 
reporting the events live on his only scheduled day off during the Games, 
substituting for Chris Schenkel.[4] He was on air for fourteen hours without 
a break,[4] during a sixteen-hour broadcast.[6] After an unsuccessful rescue 
attempt of the athletes held hostage, at 3:24 AM German Time, McKay came 
on the air with this statement:[6][7][8] When I was a kid my father used 
to say "Our greatest hopes and our worst fears are seldom realized." Our 
worst fears have been realized tonight. They have now said there were 11 
hostages; two were killed in their rooms this morn-- yesterday morning, 
nine were killed at the airport tonight. They're all gone. Although McKay 
received numerous accolades for his reporting of the Munich hostage crisis 
(including two Emmy Awards, one for sports and one for news reporting), 
he stated in a 2003 HBO documentary about his life and career that he was 
most proud of a telegram he received from Walter Cronkite the day after 
the massacre praising his work. In 1994, he was the studio host for the 
FIFA World Cup coverage, the first ever held on American soil. McKay also 
covered the 2006 FIFA World Cup for ABC. In 2002, ABC "loaned" McKay to 
NBC to serve as a special correspondent during the Winter Olympic Games 
in Salt Lake City. In 2003, HBO released a documentary by McKay called 
Jim McKay: My World in My Words, tracing his career. This film outlines 
McKay's personal and professional accomplishments. McKay founded Maryland 
Million Day, a series of twelve races designed to promote Maryland's horse 
breeding industry. The day-long program has grown to become a major racing 
event in the state of Maryland, second only to the Preakness Stakes day 
at Pimlico Race Course. It has spawned more than twenty other similar events 
at United States race tracks such as the Sunshine Millions. McKay died 
on June 7, 2008, from natural causes at the age of 86. He was survived 
by his wife Margaret, son Sean, daughter Mary Guba, and three grandchildren. 
McKay, a horse racing enthusiast who also covered Triple Crown races for 
ABC Sports, died on the same day as the running of the Belmont Stakes (won 
