Jim Gray is an American sportscaster. He is currently with Showtime, Fox, 
and Westwood One radio network. He has previously worked as a reporter, 
commentator, and interviewer with ESPN, NBC Sports and CBS Sports. He is 
an Emmy Award winning journalist, reporter, and producer. Gray is also 
a producer and executive producer of sports features and documentaries. 
Gray has worked on many major sporting events including the live network 
broadcast of numerous Super Bowls, World Series, NBA Finals, NCAA Final 
Fours, Olympics, The Masters, Orange Bowl, Cotton Bowl, and World Boxing 
Title Fights. Gray has broken numerous sports stories and has scored a 
number of exclusive interviews with Muhammad Ali, John Elway, Julius Erving, 
Mike Tyson, Kobe Bryant, Joe Montana, Eric Dickerson, Carl Lewis, Michael 
Phelps, Ron Artest, Dennis Rodman, Tom Brady, Michael Jordan, Tiger Woods, 
Floyd Mayweather, Jr., Barry Bonds, LeBron James and others. Gray has won 
12 National Emmy Awards and has three times been named the Sports Reporter 
of the Year by the American Sportscasters Association (ASA). He was awarded 
the Sports Broadcaster of the Year in 1997 by the National Sportscasters 
and Sportswriters Association (NSSA). Outside of sports, Gray has interviewed 
U.S. Presidents Nixon, Ford, Carter, Reagan, Bush, Clinton, G.W. Bush, 
Obama, and other world figures such as Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, 
U.S. Secretaries of State Madeleine Albright, Condoleezza Rice, and John 
Glenn. Gray has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. Gray was named as 
one of the 50 Greatest Sports Broadcasters of All-Time by David Halberstam. 
Gray was the Executive Producer of the ESPN 30 for 30 documentary, "First 
Pitch", on President George W. Bush throwing out the first pitch at Game 
3 of the 2001 World Series at Yankee Stadium a few weeks after the terrorist 
attacks in New York City on September 11, 2001. The film was nominated 
for an Emmy. Gray was the reporter on the air for several major sports 
events including the Malice at the Palace for the Pistons vs Pacers when 
Ron Artest went into the stands after a fan. Gray was also on the air for 
Showtime for the Tyson/Holyfield fight in 1997 in which Tyson bit off Holyfield's 
earlobe, interviewing the referee who disqualified Tyson, Mills Lane, and 
Tyson just moments after he bit Holyfield. The interview won an Emmy. Gray 
also reported on the Olympic bombing from the 1996 Atlanta Olympics. In 
1988, Gray was at the stadium and then the airport when Ben Johnson was 
disqualified for using steroids at the Seoul Olympics. His reporting won 
an Emmy for Journalism. Gray has worked as a producer on the 1984 Olympic 
Games of Los Angeles on the Official Film, "16 Days of Glory", directed 
by Bud Greenspan. Gray has been a reporter and interviewer on the live 
television broadcast of the Olympic Games in 1988 (Summer,Seoul, NBC), 
1992 (Winter, Albertville CBS,and Summer, Barcelona), 1994 (Winter, Lillehammer, 
CBS ), 1996 (Summer, Atlanta, NBC), 2000 (Summer, Sydney, NBC), 2008 (Summer, 
Beijing, NBC), and 2012 (Summer, London, NBC Radio/Westwood One) on the 
live radio broadcast as a commentator and interviewer. .[1] Gray broke 
the news in a live interview on ESPN with Rams running back, and single 
season rushing record holder, Eric Dickerson, on being traded from the 
Los Angeles Rams to the Indianapolis Colts. on Halloween 1987. That interview 
was hailed by ESPN anchor Tom Mees, as "the night that ESPN SportsCenter 
truly arrived and was born. We have now gone from a highlight service and 
interviews to a legitimate news gathering and breaking news operation." 
On March 22, 1989, Gray got the exclusive and only television interview 
with NFL Commissioner Pete Rozelle, in Palm Springs, California, when he 
suddenly decided to retire. On October 5, 1993, on CBS, during the White 
Sox vs Blue Jays playoff game, Gray reported during the game that Bulls 
minority owner Eddie Einhorn told him that Michael Jordan would retire 
from the NBA Chicago Bulls the next day. Jordan was in attendance at the 
game with Einhorn. Gray followed Jordan out of the stadium to the parking 
lot with a camera crew and Jordan acknowledged and confirmed to Gray that 
what Einhorn had told him was true, and that he would retire. Gray has 
been known for his close relationship with Kobe Bryant, which showed in 
the immediate aftermath of Bryant's sexual assault case (the night when 
the news broke, Gray appeared on SportsCenter in defense of Bryant's character)[2] 
and in several sideline interviews. It was Gray whom Bryant called to vent 
about teammate Shaquille O'Neal in October of that year (a phone call that 
started one of O'Neal and Bryant's worst disagreements).[3] Gray's interviews 
with maligned baseball player Barry Bonds in 2006 and 2007 were the only 
one-on-one interviews Bonds granted after breaking both Babe Ruth's and 
Hank Aaron's home run records. In both interviews, he denied using steroids 
or other performance-enhancing drugs. During the 1997 NBA Finals, Gray 
interviewed Dennis Rodman during an NBA on NBC segment. After repeatedly 
questioning Rodman about his comments about the Mormon religion when (the 
Chicago Bulls were in Salt Lake City to play the Jazz during the Finals), 
Rodman finally had enough of the questions, walked off the interview set 
with tears in his eyes and removed the microphone without assistance. NBC 
showed the ending of the interview as it happened during the NBA Finals 
pre-game show. On June 24, 2000 in Glasgow, Scotland, Gray did the interview 
with Mike Tyson after his swift knockout of Lou Savarese where Tyson proclaimed 
he "wanted to eat (Lennox Lewis's) children." On July 8, 2010, Gray interviewed 
LeBron James[4] when he revealed his 2010 decision to sign with the Miami 
Heat as a free agent on a live ESPN special called The Decision. On August 
13, 2011, following the Abner Mares vs. Joseph Agbeko boxing match for 
the WBC Silver and IBF Bantamweight championships, Gray interviewed match 
referee Russell Mora and confronted him about how he allowed Mares to get 
away with numerous low blows throughout the match, including a left hook 
to Agbeko's cup during the 11th round, which Mora ruled as a knockdown 
even though the blow was clearly visible to him. On May 7, 2015, Gray interviewed 
New England Patriot quarterback and 4 time Super Bowl champion Tom Brady 
at Salem State College, in Salem, MA., regarding Brady's involvement and 
the Patriots role in Deflategate. It was the same day that the NFL announced 
the results of the Wells Report. It is the only one-on-one interview that 
Brady has done on the subject. The most notable interview of Gray's sportscasting 
career occurred with former baseball player Pete Rose. During Game 2 of 
the 1999 World Series, Rose was introduced as a member of the Major League 
Baseball All-Century Team. After the ceremony, Gray (who was covering the 
series for NBC) asked Rose about the Dowd Report's allegations that he 
had gambled on major league baseball games, which he repeatedly denied: 
Jim Gray: Pete, let me ask you now. It seems as though there is an opening, 
the American public is very forgiving. Are you willing to show contrition, 
admit that you bet on baseball and make some sort of apology to that effect? 
Pete Rose: Not at all, Jim. I'm not going to admit to something that didn't 
happen. I know you're getting tired of hearing me say that. But I appreciate 
the ovation. I appreciate the American fans voting me on the All-Century 
Team. I'm just a small part of a big deal tonight. Gray: With the overwhelming 
evidence in that report, why not make that step... Rose: No. This is too 
much of a festive night to worry about that because I don't know what evidence 
you're talking about. I mean, show it to me... Gray: Well, the Dowd Report 
says- but we don't want to debate that, Pete. Rose: Well, why not? Why 
do we want to believe everything he says? Gray: You signed a paper acknowledging 
the ban. Why did you sign it if you didn't agree with it? Rose: It also 
says I can apply for reinstatement after one year, if you remember correctly. 
In the press conference, as a matter of fact, my statement was "I can't 
wait for my little girl to be a year old so I can apply for reinstatement". 
At my press conference. So you forgot to add that clause that was in there. 
Gray: Well, you have reapplied. ... You've applied for reinstatement in 
1997. Have you heard back from Commissioner Selig? Rose: No, and that kind 
of surprises me. It's only been two years, though, and he's got a lot of 
things on his mind. But I hope to some day. Gray: Pete, it's been 10 years 
since you've been allowed on the field. Obviously, the approach that you 
have taken has not worked. Why not, at this point, take a different approach? 
Rose: Well, when you say it hadn't worked, what do you exactly mean? Gray: 
You're not allowed in baseball. You're not allowed to earn a living in 
the game you love. And you're not allowed to be in the Hall of Fame. Rose: 
Well, I took that approach and that was to apply for reinstatement. I hope 
Bud Selig considers that and gives me an opportunity. I won't need a third 
chance. All I need is a second chance. Gray: Pete, those who will hear 
this tonight will say you have been your own worst enemy and continue to 
be. How do you respond to that? Rose: In what way are you talking about? 
Gray: By not acknowledging what seems to be overwhelming evidence. Rose: 
Yeah, I'm surprised you're bombarding me like this. I mean I'm doing an 
interview with you on a great night, a great occasion, a great ovation. 
Everybody seems to be in a good mood. And you're bringing up something 
that happened 10 years ago. Gray: I'm bringing it up because I think people 
would like to see ... Pete, we've got to go, we've got a game. Rose: This 
is a prosecutor's brief, not an interview, and I'm very surprised at you. 
I am, really. Gray: Some would be surprised that you didn't take the opportunity.[5][6][7] 
After conducting the interview, Gray offered no apology for his line of 
questioning toward Rose: I stand by it, and I think it was absolutely a 
proper line of questioning. . . I don't have an agenda against Pete Rose 
. . . Pete was the one who started asking me questions. I definitely wouldn't 
have gone (that) direction if he had backed off. My intent was to give 
Pete an opportunity to address issues that have kept him out of baseball. 
I thought he might have had a change of heart. . . . He hadn't had an opening 
in 10 years. . . . If I had let that go, all of you (reporters) would have 
had me on here today for a totally different reason.[8] However, after 
the heavy criticism heaped onto Gray and NBC, Gray did offer the following 
apology on-air prior to the start of Game 3: (I) thought it was important 
to ask Pete Rose if this was the right moment for him to make an apology. 
If in doing so the interview went on too long and took some of the joy 
of the occasion, then I want to say to baseball fans everywhere that I 
am very sorry about this.[9] Despite Gray's pre-game apology, New York 
Yankees outfielder Chad Curtis snubbed Gray's request for an on-field interview 
with him right after hitting the game-winning walk-off home run: Curtis 
claimed it was a team decision not to speak with Gray, but Yankee manager 
Joe Torre later suggested that Curtis had acted independently.[11] On January 
8, 2004, more than four years after the interview, Rose's autobiography 
My Prison Without Bars was published. In that book, he finally admitted 
publicly to betting on baseball games. Gray worked for CBS as a reporter 
and interviewer for coverage of the NFL, NBA, NCAA, and Major League Baseball. 
He also worked on the NFL Today studio show, and the 1992 Winter Olympics 
in Albertville, and the 1994 Winter Olympics in Lillehammer. Prior to working 
at CBS, he worked for NBC Sports. His assignments included the 1988 Summer 
Olympics in Seoul, and NFL Live. He returned to NBC Sports in 1994 working 
on the NFL, NBA, MLB, Notre Dame Football, PGA Golf, and the 1996 Summer 
Olympics in Atlanta, and the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, and 2008 Summer 
Olympics in Beijing, and 2012 Summer Olympics in London (radio). Since 
2000 Gray is the studio host for NFL Monday Night Football on Westwood 
One and the Super Bowl and a college basketball sideline reporter and host 
for the NCAA Final Four and National Championship for the network. Gray 
has also worked on the live radio broadcast coverage of The Masters for 
