James Alton Coates (born August 4, 1932) is an American former professional 
baseball pitcher. A right-hander, Coates pitched in Major League Baseball 
for the New York Yankees (1956, 1959–62), Washington Senators (1963), Cincinnati 
Reds (1963), and California Angels (1965–67). Coates was signed by the 
Yankees as an amateur free agent in 1951. He spent seven years in the Yankees’ 
farm system with a call-up in 1956, during which he made his major league 
debut. Coates spent all of the next two seasons in the minors but saw limited 
play in 1958 due to a fractured elbow.[1] Fully recovered in 1959, Coates 
pitched in 37 games, all but four in relief, winning six games against 
one loss, with a 2.87 earned run average in 100 1⁄3 innings pitched. The 
season, however, was disastrous for the Yankees as a whole—after winning 
seven World Series and nine American League pennants in ten seasons, and 
winning 103 games in 1954, the one year in that stretch when they didn’t 
win the pennant (the Cleveland Indians won 111), the Yankees, beset by 
injuries all season, finished third, 15 games behind the American League 
champion Chicago White Sox. The lowlight of the Yankees’ season was falling 
to dead last on May 20. In 1960 Coates went 13–3 as a spot starter in Casey 
Stengel's much-maligned rotation. After winning his last five decisions 
in 1959 and his first nine this season, Coates finally had his winning 
streak broken against the Boston Red Sox on July 9, a 6–5 loss in which 
Vic Wertz drove in four of the runs. Coates was also named to the All Star 
team, pitching two scoreless innings in the first of two games played that 
year (between 1959 and 1962, Major League Baseball had two All-Star games). 
Coates was a member of the Yankee team that regained the American League 
pennant in 1960 but lost to the Pittsburgh Pirates in the World Series 
in seven games. In Game One, Coates gave up a home run by Bill Mazeroski 
for the deciding runs in the Pirates’ 6–4 victory. Before Ralph Terry gave 
up Mazeroski's second home run of this Series (the walk-off home run that 
won Game Seven 10–9 for the Pirates and ended the Series), Coates himself 
was almost the scapegoat in the Yankees’ loss. With the Yankees ahead 7–5 
with no outs (and one run in) in the eighth inning of that seventh game 
and Bill Virdon on second and Dick Groat on first, Coates relieved Bobby 
Shantz and got Bob Skinner out on a sacrifice bunt, which advanced the 
runners. Rocky Nelson then flew out to Roger Maris in right field, and 
Virdon declined to challenge Maris’ throwing arm. Coates then got to an 
0–2 count on Roberto Clemente and was one strike away from getting the 
Yankees out of trouble. However, a lapse by Coates allowed the Pirates 
to keep their inning alive. Clemente eventually chopped a weak ground ball 
toward first base, and Coates initially ran toward the ball instead of 
running directly to cover first base. First baseman Moose Skowron fielded 
the ball as Coates changed direction and ran to the first base bag. But 
the momentary delay enabled Clemente to reach the base before Coates could 
get there. Skowron was forced to hold on to the ball, and Virdon scored 
to cut the Yankee lead to 7–6. Coates then gave up a home run to Hal Smith 
to give the Pirates a 9–7 lead. Terry then relieved Coates and retired 
Don Hoak to finally end the inning. The Yankees got Coates off the hook 
by scoring twice in the top of the ninth to tie the game, only to lose 
on Mazeroski's home run off Terry in the bottom of the 9th. The Pirates 
had hit four home runs in this Series; Coates had given up two of them. 
In 1961 Coates went 11–5 as a spot starter for perhaps the major leagues' 
greatest-ever team. Led by the hitting of Maris, Skowron, Mickey Mantle, 
Yogi Berra and Elston Howard, the infield defense of Clete Boyer, Tony 
Kubek and Bobby Richardson, and Whitey Ford's 25–4 season, the now-Ralph 
Houk-led Yankees (Stengel had been fired immediately after the 1960 World 
Series) won the World Series over the Cincinnati Reds in five games. Coates 
relieved Ford in Game Four of the Series and pitched four scoreless innings 
for the save in a 7–0 Yankee win; Ford had left the game with an injury, 
but not without first breaking Babe Ruth's World Series record of 29 2⁄3 
consecutive scoreless innings. In 1962 Coates went 7–6 for a Yankee team 
that repeated as World Champions. Coates was the losing pitcher in Game 
Four of this Series, which the Yankees won over the San Francisco Giants 
in seven games. In his career, Coates, whose nickname, "The Mummy," came 
from his funereal visage on the mound, won 43 games against 22 losses, 
with a 4.00 ERA and 396 strikeouts in 683 1⁄3 innings pitched. He was also 
well known for throwing at opposing batters. Jim Bouton, in his book, Ball 
Four, said Coates, after throwing at the opposing hitters, "would not get 
into the fights that followed." Coates now has a book entitled "Always 
a Yankee." In 1994, Coates was inducted into the Virginia Sports Hall of 
