James Shores "Jim" Simpson[1] (December 20, 1927 – January 13, 2016) was 
an American sportscaster, known for his smooth delivery as a play-by-play 
man and his versatility in covering many different sports. In 1997, he 
won the Sports Lifetime Achievement Award, and in 2000 he was inducted 
into the National Sportscasters and Sportswriters Association Hall of Fame. 
Jim Simpson was born in Washington, D.C., and grew up in nearby Chevy Chase, 
Md. He began his broadcasting career with a short-lived radio show, "Hunting 
and Fishing With Jimmy Simspon," when he was 15.[2] He attended George 
Washington University in Washington and served in the Coast Guard and Navy 
Reserve. After several jobs in radio, he began working in television in 
Washington in 1949. In the early 1950s, he shared a half-hour news program 
at Washington's WTOP-TV with another TV newcomer, Walter Cronkite,[3] the 
future anchor of the CBS Evening News. He joined NBC's Washington affiliate, 
WRC-TV, in 1955. Simpson broadcast Atlantic Coast Conference basketball 
games in the early 1960s and worked as a sports reporter at WRC-TV. Eventually 
he would broadcast many sports at NBC, including football, basketball, 
baseball, tennis, and golf. For much of the 1960s and 1970s he was generally 
considered the network's number two play-by-play announcer, behind only 
Curt Gowdy. He was in New Haven, Connecticut on November 22, 1963 to do 
the annual Harvard-Yale football game with Lindsey Nelson and Terry Brennan, 
when word came of the assassination of John F. Kennedy. Simpson was quoted 
as saying to Nelson as they walked through the tunnel of the Yale Bowl, 
"We will remember this walk and this moment for a long, long, time." His 
work on American Football League (and later American Football Conference) 
telecasts for NBC is perhaps what he is best remembered for. On January 
15, 1967, Simpson (along with former quarterback George Ratterman) called 
Super Bowl I for NBC Radio. He also called several World Series for NBC 
Radio, as well as numerous Orange Bowl games and the 1966 FIFA World Cup 
Final (via tape delay) for NBC television. In 1979, the fledgling ESPN 
cable sports network brought Simpson on board to provide some needed credibility 
with sports fans. Simpson broadcast the first NCAA basketball game the 
network televised, with flamboyant Dick Vitale as the color man. Vitale 
credits Simpson with helping him develop as a sportscaster. Simpson also 
called USFL and College World Series games for ESPN, and in 1988 called 
the Baltimore Orioles' local telecasts on WMAR-TV, the NBC affiliate at 
the time. After his sportscasting days Simpson retired to St. Croix, Virgin 
Islands. Among other firsts he was the initial U.S. sportscaster to appear 
live via satellite from Asia, and he was involved in the first American 
sportscast using instant replay technology. In 2005, ESPN brought Simpson 
back from retirement to do play-by-play for a series of college basketball 
games in a "turn back the clock" format on the ESPN Classic network. He 
died on January 13, 2016, in Scottsdale, Arizona at the age of 88.[4] After 
week 2 of the 1979 NFL season, Simpson moved from NBC Sports to ESPN where 
he called games for college football, college basketball, college baseball, 
