James Joseph Leyritz (born December 27, 1963) is a former catcher and infielder 
in Major League Baseball (MLB). In his MLB career, Leyritz played for the 
New York Yankees, Anaheim Angels, Texas Rangers, Boston Red Sox, San Diego 
Padres, and Los Angeles Dodgers. With the Yankees, Leyritz was a member 
of the 1996 and 1999 World Series championships, both against the Atlanta 
Braves. Leyritz grew up in Anderson Township, Hamilton County, Ohio with 
his parents, brother, and sister,[1] and attended Turpin High School in 
Cincinnati, Ohio.[1] He then attended Middle Georgia College, a junior 
college in Cochran, Georgia, before transferring to the University of Kentucky. 
At Kentucky, Leyritz played college baseball for the Kentucky Wildcats 
baseball team. After playing the 1985 season for the Kentucky Wildcats, 
Leyritz went undrafted by Major League Baseball, but was signed as a free 
agent by the New York Yankees.[2] Leyritz made his MLB debut for the Yankees 
on June 8, 1990. His playing days were highlighted by a pair of walk off 
postseason home runs he hit with the Yankees in 1995 & 1996. He hit a walk 
off home run in the 15th inning of game 2 of the newly created American 
League Division Series against the Seattle Mariners, giving the Yankees 
a 2-0 series lead. However, the Yankees lost the next three games in Seattle 
and were eliminated. The following year he hit a home run off Atlanta Braves 
closer Mark Wohlers in Game 4 of the 1996 World Series. That home run was 
significant, as the Yankees were down 2-1 in the series and had trailed 
6-0 early in Game 4, facing a possible 3-1 deficit, the Yankees rallied 
and Leyritz' home run tied the score 6-6. They eventually won game 4, tying 
the series at two games apiece and won the next two games to win the World 
Series. The home run has since become a part of Yankees lore. After the 
1996 season, the Yankees traded Leyritz to the Anaheim Angels for two players 
to be named later (PTBNL): minor leaguers Jeremy Blevins and Ryan Kane. 
On July 29, 1997, the Angels traded Leyritz and a PTBNL (minor leaguer 
Rob Sasser) to the Texas Rangers for Ken Hill. After the season, the Rangers 
traded Leyritz to the Boston Red Sox with Damon Buford for Mark Brandenburg, 
Bill Haselman and Aaron Sele. On June 20, 1998, the Red Sox traded Leyritz 
with Ethan Faggett to the San Diego Padres for Carlos Reyes, Mandy Romero 
and Darío Veras. With the Padres, Leyritz appeared in the 1998 World Series 
against the Yankees. During player introductions in Game 1 at Yankee Stadium 
where the opposing team is usually booed, Leyritz received a standing ovation 
from the fans who remembered his heroics from two years earlier. He went 
hitless in ten at bats in a four-game Yankees sweep. On July 31, 1999, 
the Padres traded Leyritz to the Yankees for Geraldo Padua. He hit another 
World Series home run, this time, a solo home run in game 4, that provided 
the Yankees with an insurance run to help complete a sweep of the Atlanta 
Braves. On June 20, 2000, the Yankees traded Leyritz to the Los Angeles 
Dodgers for José Vizcaíno and cash. Leyritz served as a pinch-hitter more 
extensively toward the end of his career. He batted and threw right-handed 
exclusively in the majors, but was known to switch-hit in the minor leagues. 
Leyritz is also known for hitting the last home run of the 1990s, in Game 
4 of the 1999 World Series. Leyritz was known for using an unusual stance 
which involved keeping his front leg (left leg) straight and stiff while 
his back leg (right leg) behind him considerably bent at the knee. He did 
this while circling his bat around behind his head, waiting for the pitch. 
After each pitch that Leyritz did not put into play or strike out on, he 
would grab the bat by its center and twirl it at his hip like a baton. 
He has said that former Yankee Mickey Rivers taught him how to twirl the 
bat at his hip. Leyritz was also Andy Pettitte's personal catcher in 1995-96 
and again in 1999-2000. Leyritz is best known for hitting numerous postseason 
home runs that either won, tied, or changed the momentum of several series. 
In Game 2 of the 1995 American League Division Series against the Seattle 
Mariners at Yankee Stadium, Leyritz hit an opposite field two-run home 
run to right-center into the rain in the 15th inning to win that game 7–5 
for the Yankees and provided them with an ample 2–0 series lead in the 
best-of-five series. The home run came off Mariners pitcher Tim Belcher, 
who was famously involved in a profanity-laced and threatening incident 
with a cameraman covering him walking through the Yankee Stadium tunnel 
after giving up the home run. The Yankees would eventually squander the 
series lead by losing the following three games in Seattle's Kingdome, 
the final two of which were decided in highly dramatic fashion. (The Mariners 
won Game 5 by a score of 6–5 with two runs in the bottom of the 11th inning.) 
The best known of Leyritz's playoff heroics occurred in Game 4 of the 1996 
World Series against the Atlanta Braves at Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium. 
The Yankees had lost the first two games of the series at home, and narrowly 
won Game 3 in Atlanta. Game 4 appeared to be going to the Braves, who led 
6–0 after 5 innings. The Yankees rallied for 3 runs in the 6th, setting 
the stage for Leyritz in the 8th inning. Leyritz stepped up with one out 
and two men on base and hit a three-run home run to left field to tie the 
game and cap the improbable Yankee comeback. "In the air to left field...back, 
at the track, at the wall, we are tied!" proclaimed Joe Buck, who was announcing 
the game on national television. The home run was hit against Atlanta closer 
Mark Wohlers and the Yankees eventually won the game 8–6 in 10 innings. 
Leyritz's Game 4 home run remains the most recognizable moment of that 
series and of his career. He then caught Andy Pettite and John Wetteland 
for a 1-0 shutout of the Braves in Game 5, with Wetteland eventually being 
named World Series MVP. In 1998, Leyritz was on the San Diego Padres. Leyritz 
hit a number of unlikely playoff home runs and clutch hits that season, 
the most dramatic of which was an opposite field home run against Billy 
Wagner to off the right field foul pole in the top of the 9th inning in 
the Astrodome that tied Game 2 of the National League Division Series against 
the Houston Astros. However, the Astros would later win the game in the 
bottom of the ninth. In game 3, Leyritz hit the eventually game-winning 
home run off Randy Johnson in the bottom of the 7th inning that broke a 
1–1 tie. Overall, Leyritz batted .400 with three home runs and five RBIs 
in that Division Series. Ironically, Leyritz's Padres would go up against 
his former team, the Yankees in the World Series. The Padres were swept 
in four games and Leyritz did not record a home run or RBI in any game.[3] 
In 1999, Leyritz had rejoined the Yankees and hit a solo home run in the 
bottom of the 8th inning of Game 4 of the World Series. The home run made 
the score 4–1. NBC commentator Bob Costas remarked incredulously about 
Leyritz after the home run, "You could send this guy to a resort in the 
spring and summer, as long as he comes back for October." Including MLB 
postseason play, this was the last homerun hit in the 20th century[4] In 
February 2011, Leyritz was hired as a pitching coach for the Newark Bears.[5] 
He left the team after one season, wanting to spend more time with his 
family.[6] On April 14, 2012, it was announced that Leyritz was returning 
to the Yankees on a personal services contract.[7] On June 8, 2006, while 
doing an interview on the Opie and Anthony show on XM Satellite Radio, 
Leyritz admitted to using amphetamines while playing when they weren't 
against the rules. The statement came in the wake of an admission by pitcher 
Jason Grimsley that he used performance-enhancing drugs throughout his 
career.[8] On December 28, 2007, Leyritz was arrested in Broward County, 
Florida on suspicion of drunk driving and vehicular homicide in which Leyritz's 
car struck Freida Veitch's car. Veitch, who was returning home from her 
bartending job, was not wearing a seat belt. She ejected from the car and 
died at the scene. Leyritz was released on US$11,000 bond and charged with 
two counts of drunk driving.[9] Police collected two blood samples from 
Leyritz, the first 2½ hours after the crash and the second about an hour 
later. The first sample showed a blood-alcohol level of .14, and the second, 
.13, police said. Florida's legal limit for motorists is .08. Prosecutors 
say Veitch had a blood-alcohol level of .18. Several days after the accident, 
it was revealed that Leyritz may face further charges because he had his 
license suspended in New York prior to the accident. On June 20, 2007, 
Leyritz was ticketed outside Albany, New York for using a cell phone while 
driving. On November 23, his license was suspended after he failed to appear 
in court. The state of Florida is processing the suspension notice from 
New York and could file additional charges once his Florida license is 
suspended. According to an official from the Florida Department of Highway 
Safety and Motor Vehicles: "The department has the statutory ability to 
suspend his license based on the fact he had knowledge of a suspension 
in another state and still came to Florida for a driver's license. It is 
unlawful." Leyritz's lawyer is quoted as saying that Leyritz's license 
"was not suspended in the state of Florida on the day of the accident, 
nor is it suspended today."[10] On February 13, 2009, Leyritz was ordered 
back to jail as his bail was revoked following his apparent consumption 
of alcoholic beverages in violation with his bail conditions.[11] A judge 
allowed him to return home on bail on February 23 after agreeing with Leyritz's 
attorney that his pretrial release conditions were unclear and that Leyritz 
had misunderstood rather than intentionally violated the terms.[12] On 
May 13, 2009, Leyritz was hospitalized in Florida. Reports on ESPN claimed 
Leyritz had threatened suicide, but Leyritz issued a statement later saying 
he was not suicidal but stressed out. Leyritz ran into trouble on May 14 
when he attempted to start his car but the alcohol monitoring device on 
the car malfunctioned, leading to a false positive and triggering an automatic 
urine test for Leyritz. The test showed he had not consumed any alcohol 
and a judge cleared him.[13] On July 2, 2009, Leyritz was arrested for 
battery against his former wife,[14] however the charges were later dropped[citation 
needed]. Leyritz chose not to press charges on his former wife for filing 
false charges. In November 2010, Leyritz's trial for the December 2007 
DUI crash was held. He was acquitted on the DUI Manslaughter charge by 
a jury in less than 45 minutes, but was convicted, after 2 days of deliberations, 
by the jury on a misdemeanor charge of driving under the influence, which 
carries a maximum sentence of six months in jail. He was subsequently sentenced 
to one year's probation and a $500 fine.[15] In May 2010, Leyritz's insurance 
company settled a civil lawsuit for the accident, paying $350,000 to the 
other driver's family.[16] As of March, 2015, Leyritz lives in Orange County, 
California, with his 3 boys, new fiance Michelle, and her two daughters. 
They plan on marrying in July 2015. He is a member and usher at Saddleback 
Church in Lake Forest, California. Leyritz is involved in with many charities. 
He is on the board of The Greatest Save/Kindervision Foundation which is 
designed to 'shut out' child predators.[17] He also works with many chapters 
of ALS, a disease he lost his brother-in-law, Joe Toerner, to in 2010.[18] 
During his playing days, Leyritz and his wife brought foster children to 
see games at Yankee Stadium and contributed to Covenant House and Police 
Benevolent Association.[1] 2004-2007 Leyritz co-hosted a radio show with 
Vinny Micucci and Billy Sample called MLB Radio Daily on MLB Radio and 
is a regular contributor to The Michael Kay Show on the New York City ESPN 
Radio affiliate.[citation needed] In October 2007, Jim worked with Harold 
Reynolds and Chris Myers covering the pre- and post-game reports on the 
field for the 2007 Playoffs and World Series for Fox.com.[citation needed] 
January 6, 2014, Jim was hired to host a radio show for Angels Radio 830AM 
with Jason Brennan called "Inside The Game" with Leyritz and Brennan. The 
show was later postponed due to a conflict with ESPN radio.[citation needed] 
Starting in March 2016, Jim co-hosts a nationally syndicated weekly radio 
show with David Meltzer called "Sports Blender" on SB Nation radio. Leyritz 
wrote a book titled Catching Heat: The Jim Leyritz Story, published in 
June 2011. The book was co-written by brothers Jeffrey Lyons and Douglas 
B. Lyons.[19] In a brief review, Publishers Weekly called the book "a surprisingly 
