As Player: As Manager: James McCormick (November 3, 1856 – March 10, 1918) 
was a Scottish right-handed pitcher in Major League Baseball. A native 
of Glasgow (he was actually born outside the Glasgow boundary, in Thornliebank, 
Renfrewshire), he was the first ballplayer born in Scotland to appear in 
a major league game. McCormick was great friends with Mike "King" Kelly 
and was also very well liked by Cap Anson, two of the great personalities 
of early baseball. Anson was McCormick's captain-manager in 1885 and 1886, 
when Chicago won its last 19th-century pennants. In Paterson, New Jersey 
starting in 1885, McCormick co-owned a bar with a fellow former local player, 
Dave Treado. It had a ticker, to post results of games and races. Before 
the 1888 season and probably at other times, Kelly did some bartending 
for him. That August, when McCormick's wife Jennie died, Kelly wired a 
former mutual Chicago teammate, and "telegraphed Mr. Joseph Towell, the 
[Paterson] florist, to get up something handsome, and this consisted of 
`The Gates Ajar,’ the sides of which were made from nephetos [presumably 
nepetas, aromatic herbs in the mint family] and white roses, the base of 
carnations, yellow roses and white lilies. The gates were made of ivy leaves, 
the whole being surmounted by a dove." Back in 1885, after their Chicago 
team won the pennant, Kelly and McCormick returned by train to Paterson 
with teammate Tom Burns, who was heading to Connecticut. A local social 
club met the players and took them to McCormick's bar. There, a state senator 
handed a silver ball to McCormick, "who was loudly called upon and cheered. 
He said he was suffering from the effects of a severe cold and he would 
like to make a speech but even if he did he could not tell them how much 
he appreciated this token of friendship, more than anything he had ever 
yet received. Kelly was called on and was cheered; in fact, the crowd at 
this stage was prepared to cheer everybody. As he arose some one [sic] 
called: 'Make a dead hit this time, Mike!' He said on behalf of Mr. McCormick 
and himself he desired to thank the donors of the ball; they would never 
forget this occasion and would ever keep this gift and try to be in the 
best club [sic]; but we are getting pretty old now." About Anson, McCormick 
reportedly said the following in 1887, soon after being sold by Chicago 
to Pittsburgh: "Before I played ball with Anson I used to think he was 
a big dub, but I thought him a pretty fair fellow afterward. He never said 
much to me. If any one wants to get Anson mad let him say he is in one 
of those trances [presumably, mellow moments during a game]. Kelly used 
to make him wild by shouting in from the outfield: 'Have you got them again?'" 
That offseason, Chicago President Albert G. Spalding sold several of his 
best-known players, mainly for drinking during the 1886 season. After selling 
George Gore to New York and Kelly to Boston, he traded McCormick. In March, 
McCormick was still the property of Chicago when Spalding said "the only 
trouble between McCormick and the club has been a difference of opinion 
between him and me as to his habits. Anson is and always has been very 
partial to 'Mac,' and wants him this season." Ten days later in Louisville, 
Anson said, "I desire his services very much, however, for I think that, 
under the new [pitching] rules [allowing for unrestricted overhand throwing], 
he will be the best pitcher on the diamond. If he is released, it will 
only be for a good sum of money." About a week after that, Spalding sold 
him. He also served as a player/manager for the Cleveland Blues from 1879 
to 80 and 1882 with a 74–96 record. He died in Paterson, New Jersey at 
the age of 61, and is interred at Laurel Grove Memorial Park in Totowa, 
