James Alexander Devlin (June 6, 1849 – October 10, 1883) was an American 
Major League Baseball player who played mainly as a first baseman early 
in his career, then as a pitcher in the latter part. He played for three 
teams during his five-year career; the Philadelphia White Stockings and 
the Chicago White Stockings of the National Association, and the Louisville 
Grays of the National League. However, after admitting to throwing games 
and costing the Grays the pennant in the 1877 Louisville Grays scandal, 
he and three of his teammates were banished permanently from Major League 
Baseball. Jim Devlin began his career in the first organized professional 
league, the National Association, as an infielder for his hometown Philadelphia 
White Stockings team in 1873, and the Chicago White Stockings in the 1874 
and 1875 seasons. In 1876, the National Association folded and was replaced 
by the National League that lives on to this day. In this year, Devlin 
began pitching for the Louisville Grays, starting 68 games with an impeccable 
1.56 ERA and leading the Grays in batting with .315. His best pitch was 
a "drop pitch", now known as a sinker, which Devlin may have been the first 
to throw. In 1877, Devlin pitched every inning of his team's games, the 
only pitcher ever to do so. Led by Devlin and slugger George Hall, the 
Grays opened up a four-game lead in the NL pennant race by mid-August. 
However, the Grays suffered a horrendous road trip and endured a seven-game 
losing streak, which was characterized by uncharacteristic "bonehead" plays 
and poor pitching. The Grays relinquished their lead and eventually finished 
second, seven games behind the Boston Red Caps (who tore up the league 
afterwards, winning 20 of 21 games to end the season). Meanwhile, certain 
Grays were seen around town wearing fancy new jewelry and ostentatiously 
dining at exclusive restaurants. At the end of the season, suspicion arose 
that players were being paid to intentionally lose games. This suspicion 
increased as the players performed very well in post-season exhibition 
matches and as the Louisville Courier-Journal discovered that utility infielder 
Al Nichols had received an abnormally high number of telegrams. Courier-Journal 
writer John Haldeman, who was the son of the team president and sometimes 
played second base in the team's exhibition games, was the first to publicly 
accuse the Grays of throwing games. Team vice president Charles Chase, 
who had earlier received but disregarded telegrams informing him that gamblers 
were betting against the Grays in certain games, began an investigation. 
Devlin and Hall confessed, and Chase demanded that his players allow him 
to inspect their telegrams. The telegrams confirmed that Nichols was coordinating 
the games with New York gamblers. Bill Craver, the team's shortstop, who 
was the only player to deny the request, citing lack of pay, and who carried 
a bad reputation from his days in the National Association, was presumed 
guilty by association and was suspended. William Hulbert, the president 
of the National League, decided to make a stand against gambling. He immediately 
banned Devlin, Hall, Nichols, and Craver for life. Craver, against whom 
no evidence of gambling has ever been found, was outraged and appealed 
the suspension. Devlin also appealed to the League for reinstatement every 
year for the rest of his life. However, Hulbert remained resolute and none 
of the Louisville Four ever played major league baseball again. (According 
to legend, Devlin literally begged, on his knees, for another chance; Hulbert 
responded by giving Devlin a fifty-dollar bill, a large sum in the 1870s. 
"This is what I think of you personally, Jim", the league president supposedly 
said. "But, damn you, you have thrown a game, you are dishonest, and this 
National League will not stand for it!")[1] Devlin, who found work in Philadelphia 
as a police officer, died poor of tuberculosis in 1883, survived by a wife 
