Jim Hendry (born July 27, 1955, Dunedin, Florida) is currently a special 
assistant for New York Yankees GM Brian Cashman, and is a former Vice President/General 
Manager of the Chicago Cubs. Hendry was promoted to GM on July 5, 2002 
by former Cubs President/CEO Andy MacPhail. He worked for the Cubs from 
1995 to 2011. Prior to his promotion to GM, he was named Assistant GM/Player 
Personnel Director on October 12, 2001, and previously the Director of 
Player Development, in charge of both Scouting and Minor League Operations. 
Hendry graduated from Spring Hill College, where he had majored in communications 
and journalism. He could not find a job in broadcasting, and took a job 
as a high school teacher and baseball coach in Miami. This led to a job 
at Creighton University in 1983, and he was promoted to head coach in the 
middle of the 1984 season. Following Creighton's NCAA College World Series 
appearance (1991), Hendry was named National Coach of the Year. He left 
Creighton later that year to become special assistant to then Florida Marlins 
GM Dave Dombrowski, and also coached minor league teams in 1993 and '94. 
Jim has two kids, Lauren and John. Hendry's tenure as general manager produced 
mixed results. In 2003, the Cubs made their first playoff appearance in 
the Hendry era, but just three years later, Hendry's Cubs had the worst 
record in the National League. One of his first moves provided fodder for 
critics and boosters alike: late in spring training 2002, he dealt Julián 
Tavárez and Dontrelle Willis to the Florida Marlins for pitchers Matt Clement 
and Antonio Alfonseca. The deal produced mixed results; Clement was the 
Cubs' most consistent pitcher in 2002 and continued to be valuable in 2003, 
while Tavarez's volatile behavior was a distraction to the Cubs in 2001. 
On the downside, Alfonseca struggled while a Cub, and the minor league 
pitcher traded to the Marlins was Dontrelle Willis, the 2003 Rookie of 
the Year. The Cubs did not contend in 2002, and Hendry fired manager Don 
Baylor in July, replacing him with Iowa Cubs manager Bruce Kimm on an interim 
basis. The Cubs staggered to the end of the season in 2002, and Hendry 
purged several veterans from the roster. One veteran, Todd Hundley, a free 
agent acquisition before the 2001 season, struggled on the field, feuded 
with fans, and had even begun to tarnish the image of his father Randy 
Hundley, a member of the Cubs teams of the 1960s and 1970s. Hundley's large 
contract would have made trading him difficult, so the only way that he 
could leave the team would be if Hendry released him. Nevertheless, former 
Los Angeles Dodgers general manager Dan Evans, offered second baseman Mark 
Grudzielanek and first baseman Eric Karros. Grudzielanek and Karros were 
also high-priced veterans with their careers waning. But the two players 
managed productive seasons in 2003, also providing veteran leadership. 
Hendry made his biggest splash in the 2002–03 offseason when he hired former 
San Francisco Giants manager Dusty Baker to manage the club just days after 
Baker's Giants lost in seven games to the Anaheim Angels in the World Series. 
The Cubs started 2003 well, but stumbled after center fielder Corey Patterson 
injured his knee in June. A little more than two weeks after his injury, 
Hendry sent prospect Bobby Hill and veteran José Hernández to the Pittsburgh 
Pirates for a center fielder who could replace Patterson for the remainder 
of the season, Kenny Lofton. The Cubs also received third baseman Aramis 
Ramírez in the trade, ending the revolving door that had been at 3B ever 
since Ron Santo was traded to the White Sox. Ramirez blossomed into a star 
with the Cubs, and Lofton provided the spark at the top of the lineup that 
the Cubs needed. The Cubs won the National League Central Division title 
in 2003, and beat Atlanta in the National League Division Series, their 
first postseason series victory since 1908. They then came within five 
outs from their first World Series appearance since 1945. They were up 
three games to one on the Florida Marlins in the NLCS and ended up losing 
the last three games, including the infamous Game 6 involving fan Steve 
Bartman followed by an error by Alex Gonzalez on a routine double play 
ball that would have ended the inning with the score 3-1 in favor of the 
Cubs. After failing to close out the 2003 NLCS against the Florida Marlins, 
Hendry made several acquisitions, picking up first baseman Derrek Lee for 
Hee-seop Choi in a trade with the Marlins, acquiring catcher Michael Barrett 
in a three-way trade with the Oakland Athletics, giving up Damian Miller 
in the process and Montreal Expos, signing free agents LaTroy Hawkins, 
Todd Walker and Greg Maddux. On March 25, 2004, he sent prospect pitchers 
Juan Cruz and Steve Smyth to the Atlanta Braves for two minor leaguers, 
pitcher Andy Pratt and infielder Richard Lewis.[1] The Cubs were Sports 
Illustrated's preseason choice to win the World Series in 2004. Injuries 
to key players like Mark Prior, Sammy Sosa, Kerry Wood, Joe Borowski, and 
Alex Gonzalez hindered the Cubs during the early part of the season. On 
July 31, Hendry made a four-team deal with the Montreal Expos, Minnesota 
Twins and Boston Red Sox, sending Gonzalez and prospects Brendan Harris 
and Francis Beltrán to the Expos and prospect Justin Jones to the Minnesota 
Twins. In return, the Cubs received All-Star shortstop Nomar Garciaparra 
from Boston, along with prospect Matt Murton. Garciaparra missed several 
games down the stretch because of an injury to his groin, forcing Hendry 
to sign Neifi Pérez off of waivers. Meanwhile, the Cubs' bullpen became 
a bigger and bigger source of concern. With Borowski out for the season, 
the Cubs made Hawkins the closer, and Hawkins struggled down the stretch, 
blowing two key games the last week of the season. The Cubs led the Wild 
Card race by 1½ games with nine to go before fading to three games behind 
the eventual Wild Card winner, the Houston Astros. As the Cubs saw their 
lead in the Wild Card race disintegrate, the Cubs became mired in controversy 
regarding the treatment of the team by television announcers Chip Caray 
and Steve Stone. After the 2004 season, Chip Caray signed a deal to broadcast 
Atlanta Braves games (with his father, Skip Caray) while Stone eventually 
decided not to return as Cubs' color commentator. Meanwhile, slugger Sammy 
Sosa walked out on his team twice at the end of the season. The first time 
came during an extra-inning loss to the Montreal Expos at Wrigley Field 
when Sosa, who did not start because of back spasms, decided to leave the 
ballpark in the seventh inning to beat traffic on Lake Shore Drive back 
to his condominium at Lake Point Towers. With Sosa not on the bench available 
to pinch-hit, Baker called on Ramón Martínez to pinch-hit with the tying 
run on base in the 12th inning of a 7–6 loss. The second time came the 
last game of the season, when Sosa left the park moments after learning 
he wasn't in the starting lineup. When Sosa claimed he stayed until the 
seventh inning of the game, Hendry released a surveillance tape showing 
Sosa leaving the park shortly after the 1:20 first pitch. As a result, 
the first priority of the 2004–2005 offseason was unloading Sosa. After 
in-depth talks with the New York Mets and Washington Nationals, the Cubs 
sent Sosa to the Baltimore Orioles, getting utility player Jerry Hairston, 
Jr., second baseman Mike Fontenot and pitcher David Crouthers. Hendry then 
signed veteran Jeromy Burnitz to replace Sosa in right field. He signed 
middle reliever Chad Fox and traded Kyle Farnsworth to the Detroit Tigers 
for Roberto Novoa and minor-leaguers Scott Moore and Bo Flowers. After 
a sub-.500 season marred by injuries in 2005, the Cubs made few major moves 
going into the 2006 season. Before the 2006 season, Hendry received a two-year 
contract extension from the Tribune Company. That gives Hendry financial 
security the next two seasons, but it doesn't guarantee he will remain 
with the club. The biggest move was trading three young pitchers, Ricky 
Nolasco, Sergio Mitre and Renyel Pinto to the Marlins for center fielder 
Juan Pierre. In November, 2005, Hendry attempted to shore up his bullpen 
with relievers Scott Eyre and Bob Howry. The Cubs also signed free agent 
Jacque Jones to play right field. He signed injured free agent starter 
Wade Miller to a one-year, $1 million contract with $1 million in incentives. 
Hendry also re-signed journeymen players like Glendon Rusch and Neifi Pérez 
to multi-year deals. Again, injuries marred the 2006 season with Lee going 
down with a broken wrist just 14 games into the season. Mark Prior and 
Kerry Wood again went down with frequent injuries. Another factor in the 
Cubs' poor performance in 2006 was their finishing last in the major leagues 
in walks. As the Cubs struggled into July, Hendry announced that he was 
going to evaluate the coaching staff's performance at the All-Star Break, 
causing many pundits to speculate that Baker, as well as coaches Gene Clines, 
Gary Matthews, Larry Rothschild and Dick Pole, were in jeopardy of losing 
their jobs. Hendry responded that he was not necessarily firing anyone, 
and that he would not necessarily finish his evaluation over the four-day 
break. On July 26, Hendry announced manager Dusty Baker would stay on for 
the rest of the season. At the end of July Hendry traded Maddux to the 
Los Angeles Dodgers for shortstop César Izturis, and Walker to the San 
Diego Padres for pitching prospect José Ceda, both of which were announced 
after the deadline had actually passed, but were completed before the deadline. 
Wade Miller made his first start of the season on September 9, 2006, making 
five starts total and finishing the season 0–2 with a 4.57 ERA. He filed 
for free agency after the season and has subsequently re-signed with a 
contract extension. On October 2, 2006, Hendry announced that the Cubs 
would not offer manager Dusty Baker a contract extension. The Cubs finished 
the 2006 season with 66 wins and 96 losses, finishing 17½ games behind 
division winner and eventual 2006 World Series Champions St. Louis Cardinals 
and last place in the National League Central Division. It was the first 
time the Cubs finished in last place during Hendry's tenure as General 
Manager and first time as a team since 2000. Hendry began a huge offseason 
spending spree starting on October 17, 2006 when Hendry hired veteran manager 
Lou Piniella to replace Dusty Baker as the Cubs manager for at least the 
next three seasons with a club option for a fourth season.[2] On November 
19, Hendry signed[3] former Washington Nationals superstar Alfonso Soriano 
to an 8-year, $136 million contract to play outfield for the Cubs. Third 
baseman Aramis Ramírez opted out of his current contract and filed for 
free agency, but subsequently signed a new contract with the Cubs, a five-year 
$73 million deal. In other moves, Hendry inked Wade Miller to an incentive 
laden, one-year $1.5 million extension to stay with the Cubs.[4] He also 
signed free agent second baseman and utility player Mark DeRosa (previously 
of the Texas Rangers) to a three-year, $13 million deal on November 14, 
2006.[5] On November 16, 2006. he completed a trade sending relievers David 
Aardsma and prospect Carlos Vásquez to the cross-town rival Chicago White 
Sox for left-handed setup man Neal Cotts.[6] On December 6, 2006, the Cubs 
agreed to a four-year, $40 million deal with free agent pitcher Ted Lilly, 
who played the previous season for the Toronto Blue Jays, beating out the 
New York Yankees,[7] while Hendry was being hospitalized for chest pains. 
On December 9, it was reported that Hendry signed free agent Jason Marquis 
to a three-year, $20 million contract. Marquis had last pitched for St. 
Louis.[8] On December 15, the Cubs also announced their signing of backup 
first baseman and outfielder Daryle Ward.[9] Hendry also signed outfielder/1B 
veteran Cliff Floyd, a Chicago native, to a one-year, $3 million deal on 
January 24, 2007.[10] Hendry inked Mark Prior to a one-year, $3.575 million 
contract for 2007 as well. The Cubs sent utility outfielder prospect Freddie 
Bynum to the Baltimore Orioles for a player to be named later[11] (right-handed 
pitcher Kevin Hart). They selected former number-one Rule 5 draft pick 
Josh Hamilton from the Tampa Bay Devil Rays and immediately traded him 
to the Cincinnati Reds for cash considerations. In the draft, the Cubs 
also selected right-handed pitcher James Henderson from Washington, and 
lost: left-handed pitcher Edward Campusano to the Milwaukee Brewers, right-handed 
pitcher Lincoln Holdzkom to the Houston Astros, infielder Richard Lewis 
to the Kansas City Royals, and shortsop Jason Smith to Toronto.[12] While 
at the Winter Meetings, Hendry felt chest pains and was taken to the hospital 
where he had an angioplasty; he finalized the Lilly deal from his hospital 
bed. By the start of Spring Training, Hendry spent $300 million in new 
contracts. With new ownership coming at the end of the 2007 season and 
with the Cubs falling in the standings in May and June, Hendry's chances 
of staying as the General Manager remained an open question at mid season. 
On May 28, 2007, Jim Hendry stated that his team was underachieving. At 
the time, the Cub had a 22–26 record and were five games behind division-leading 
Milwaukee. After June 2, the Chicago Cubs went on to put up the best record 
in baseball as they chased after a playoff spot. Help arrived when Jim 
Hendry made it clear that the team was a buyer and not a seller with the 
acquisitions of Jason Kendall, Craig Monroe and Steve Trachsel. On September 
28, 2007, the Cubs clinched the National League Central for the first time 
since 2003 with an 84–76 record. The Cubs were swept by the Arizona Diamondbacks 
in the first round of the 2007 NLDS. In October 2008, the Cubs extended 
Hendry's contract for an additional four years.[13] Rich Harden was acquired 
from Oakland mid way through the 2008 season, and proved to be a key trade 
in their 08 success. In 2008, the Cubs led the Central Division nearly 
the entire year, ended with the best record in the National League (97 
wins), but were once again swept in the NLDS by the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
This was the year that Japanese superstar Kosuke Fukudome made his arrival 
to the U.S. and was signed by Hendry to a 4-year $48 Million contract to 
play Right Field. Fukudome began the season with strong play, but cooled 
down and left fans disappointed as the season wore on. Despite consistently 
having a team with one of the highest payrolls in baseball, the Cubs have 
struggled in recent seasons. From 2009 through 2011, the Cubs have had 
the 2nd, 1st, and 2nd highest payrolls in the National League respectively. 
Prior to 2009, Hendry signed enigmatic OF Milton Bradley to a 3 year/$30 
million contract. The Cubs finished 2009 barely above .500 at 83-78 and 
Bradley was a major bust. He finished the year suspended by the team. In 
2010, for most of the season they were one of the worst teams in the baseball. 
Despite finishing the season strongly, they ended up at 75-87. In 2011, 
the Cubs once again possessed one of the worst records in baseball, finishing 
at 71-91, 25 games behind the first-place Cardinals. Under Hendry's leadership, 
the Cubs drafted Javier Baez. Cubs Chairman Tom Ricketts notified Hendry 
on July 22, 2011, that he wouldn't be retained as general manager. Hendry 
was allowed to remain with the team to help get the Cubs’ draft picks signed. 
He was relieved of his duties on August 19, 2011 and replaced on an interim 
basis by assistant general manager Randy Bush. Hendry was the only general 
manager in Cubs history to oversee three postseason clubs (2003, 2007, 
2008) and was the first Cubs general manager to lead the franchise to consecutive 
postseason berths since the 1930s. Under his tenure, the Cubs were 749-748. 
He was the third longest serving general manager in the history of the 
club. On January 31, 2012 Hendry agreed to a multi-year deal to become 
a special assistant to Yankees GM Brian Cashman[14] and is also listed 
