James Creighton, Jr. (April 15, 1841 – October 18, 1862) was an American 
baseball player during the game's amateur era, and is considered by historians 
to be its first superstar. He played for the Excelsior of Brooklyn from 
1860 to 1862, as well as local amateur and professional cricket matches. 
As a pitcher in baseball's amateur era, Creighton's pitching style changed 
the sport from a game that showcased fielding into a confrontation between 
the pitcher and batter. During his era, a pitcher was required to deliver 
the ball in an underhand motion with a stiff arm/stiff wrist movement. 
The speed with which Creighton was able to pitch the ball had previously 
been thought of as impossible without movement of his elbow or wrist. If 
there were any movements in his elbow or wrist, they were imperceptible, 
but he was accused by some opponents and spectators of using an illegal 
delivery. However, the competitive advantage of this delivery, and his 
success as a pitcher, eventually led others to emulate his technique. In 
October 1862, at the height of his popularity, he injured himself in a 
game when he suffered a ruptured abdominal hernia hitting a home run. The 
rupture caused internal bleeding, and he died four days later. Diagnoses 
differ as to the cause of death, ranging from a strain to a ruptured bladder, 
but modern medical understanding of the symptoms suggest that it was most 
likely a ruptured inguinal hernia. Creighton was born on April 15, 1841 
in Manhattan to James and Jane Creighton, and was raised in Brooklyn.[1] 
By age 16, he had become recognized in the Brooklyn area for his batting 
skills in both baseball and cricket. In 1857, along with other neighborhood 
youths, he formed a local baseball club named Young America.[2] During 
this period, there were no organized leagues and few competing teams, so 
amateur clubs spent much of their time practicing and playing intra-squad 
games, with occasional matches against rivals. Youth America played a few 
match games before disbanding. Creighton then became a member of Niagara 
of Brooklyn, playing second base.[2] In a match on July 19, 1859, the Niagaras 
were being heavily outscored by the Star Club of Brooklyn. Creighton, who 
had thus far been used by the team primarily in the infield, was brought 
on as a substitute pitcher.[1] Using what observers described as a "low, 
swift delivery," Creighton achieved uncommonly swift velocity. With the 
balls "rising from the ground past the shoulder to the catcher," the Star 
batsmen were unable to hit them effectively.[3] Under the rules of baseball 
at the time, a pitcher was required to deliver the ball underhanded with 
arm locked straight at the elbow and at the wrist.[4] Another technique 
he used was to give the baseball spinning motion, making it harder for 
the batters to hit it squarely.[5] Additionally, he threw a high-arcing 
slower pitch called a "dew-drop."[4] It was the job of the pitcher to make 
it easy for the batter to hit the ball as fielding was considered the game's 
true skill.[5] Star batsmen claimed that Creighton was using an illegal 
snap of the wrist to deliver the pitch. Although the Star Club prevailed, 
Creighton joined their club following the game.[2] Before the 1860 season 
began, Creighton left the Star Club and joined one of the highest-profiled 
clubs in the game at the time, the Excelsior of Brooklyn.[2] With their 
new star pitcher, the Excelsiors became a national sensation. They organized 
the first known national tour, which pitted them against teams on the East 
Coast of the United States.[2] That first season, Creighton scored 47 runs 
in 20 match games, and was retired just 56 times and did not strike out. 
In a game against the St. George Cricket Club on November 8, he recorded 
baseball's first shutout.[6] In addition to his pitching skills, he became 
the game's best batter. In 1862, he was retired just four times, either 
as a batter or baserunner.[2][notes 1] When observing Creighton pitch a 
baseball, English cricketer John Lillywhite commented, "Why, that man is 
not bowling, he is throwing underhand. It is the best disguised underhand 
throwing I ever saw, and might readily be taken for a fair delivery."[1] 
Another observer said that his pitch was "as swift as [if] it was shot 
out of cannon."[4] Exclesior teammate John Chapman later in his life wrote 
that Creighton "...had wonderful speed, and, with it, splendid command. 
He was fairly unhittable." Others, especially the conservative members 
among the baseball community, complained that not only were his pitches 
illegal, but also unsportsmanlike.[7] After holding the famed rival Brooklyn 
Atlantics to five runs, an extraordinarily low total for the era, the Brooklyn 
Eagle dispatched a reporter to determine whether or not his pitch was legal; 
in the end, it was determined he was throwing a "fair square pitch", rather 
than a "jerk" or an "underhand throw." During this era of baseball, the 
game was strictly an amateur sport. Creighton was described as principled, 
unassuming, and gentlemanly — traits considered ideal during the amateur 
era.[3] However, rumors circulated that clubs had circumvented this rule 
by paying players in an under-the-table manner. Clubs would hire the player 
in a created position within their administration, with the understanding 
that there were no actual duties required. In 1860, the Excelsior Club 
lured Creighton, along with teammates George Flanley, Asa Brainard, and 
his brother Henry Brainard. All but Henry were quietly paid a salary, with 
Creighton earning $500, thus are believed to be the first "professional" 
baseball players.[3][8] After winning the National Association championship 
in 1860, Creighton and Asa Brainard, jumped from the Excelsior Club to 
the Atlantic Club of Brooklyn. This move lasted only three weeks, and without 
having played any games, both players returned to the Excelsior Club.[2] 
While this practice spread over all of baseball in the coming years, open 
professionalism didn't begin until the 1869 season, when the Cincinnati 
Red Stockings paid a salary to each member of the team. Creighton was considered 
a prominent member of the cricket community, playing both amateur and professional. 
He performed for the American Cricket Club in both 1861 and 1862, often 
playing against the all-England team, whether at the Elysian Fields or 
elsewhere.[2] Though the English teams would dominate these matches, Creighton 
fared well. In an 1859 match of 11 Englishmen against 16 Americans, he 
clean bowled five wickets out of six successive balls.[1] On October 14, 
1862, in a match against the Union of Morrisania, Creighton had hit four 
doubles in four at bats during the first five innings while Brainard pitched. 
In the sixth inning, he took over pitching duties, and in his next at bat 
he hit a home run. However, during the swing, he suffered an injury in 
his abdominal area.[notes 2] According to Jack Chapman, who played for 
the Atlantics, when Creighton crossed home plate, he commented to Flanley 
that he heard something snap, thinking that it might have been his belt.[9] 
After the game, he began to experience severe pain in his abdomen, hemorrhaging 
from what was reported at the time a ruptured bladder.[notes 3] He died 
in his father's home on October 18 at the age of 21.[10] In an 1887 issue 
of an early sports newspaper, the The Sporting Life, a letter-writer, who 
signed only as "Old Timer", sent in his account of the event. Robert Smith 
(Baseball in America, Holt Rinehart Winston, 1961, p. 10,13) as well as 
the Findagrave website [1] reported it is a ruptured bladder. Creighton's 
death caused concern in the sports-world that public perceptions of baseball 
and cricket would focus on the inherent dangers of their play, in turn, 
hurting each sport's popularity. Though it is generally accepted that he 
fatally injured himself while playing baseball, it was reported that the 
Excelsior president, Dr. Joseph Jones, made comments during the National 
Association convention of 1862 in attempt to "correct" this notion. He 
claimed that Creighton had suffered the injury, instead, while playing 
cricket in a match on October 7.[11] Later research claims that Dr. Jones' 
assertions are correct; Creighton had died of a "strangulated intestine", 
and did not hit a home run during his final game.[12] Dr. Jones' remarks 
have been interpreted as his attempt to save baseball's image, and its 
nearly-equal standing with cricket, as well as his team's legacy considering 
that they had now lost their best player.[2] Baseball at the time was constantly 
"looking forward", and his death provided the sport with a certain mythology 
and much-needed nostalgia.[11] Creighton was buried in Green-Wood Cemetery 
in Brooklyn. The 12-foot marble obelisk that marks his grave was originally 
topped with a large marble baseball (which has long-since disappeared).[12] 
At the time, the sport of Cricket was the most popular sport in the United 
States, but Creighton and the Excelsiors had brought considerable notoriety 
to baseball. Creighton's popularity grew substantially after his death.[12] 
In the following decade, teams began honoring him by naming themselves 
after him, and others paid tribute by visiting his gravesite.[11] As much 
as twenty years later, though the public adored their star pitchers, comparisons 
to Creighton would inevitably emerge. It was not considered controversial 
to compliment a pitcher with the caveat that he "warn't no Creighton."[13] 
For years following his death, the Excelsiors' programme included a portrait 
of their team with Creighton, shrouded in black, featured prominently in 
the center.[13] Baseball writer John Thorn commented in his book, Baseball 
in the Garden of Eden: The Secret History of the Early Game, that Creighton 
"was baseball's first hero, and I believe, the most important player not 
inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame.[1] The television series The Simpsons 
made reference to Creighton in the episode "Homer at the Bat", where Mr. 
Burns has him pegged as the right fielder for his company's softball team. 
His assistant Smithers has to point out that all the players Mr. Burns 
had selected are long dead, making reference in particular to Creighton 
