As player As manager James Wilson (July 23, 1900 – May 31, 1947), nicknamed 
"Ace," was an American professional athlete in soccer and baseball. He 
began his professional sports career as a soccer outside right in the National 
Association Football League and American Soccer League before becoming 
a catcher, manager and coach in Major League Baseball. Wilson was the National 
League's starting catcher in baseball's first All-Star game. Born in Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, Wilson threw and batted right-handed and was listed at 6 ft 
1 1⁄2 in (187 cm) tall and 200 pounds (91 kg). Wilson, the son of Scottish 
immigrants, grew up in northeast Philadelphia. He left school when he was 
fourteen to work in a local textile mill. In 1919, he left the mills when 
he began playing as an outside forward with Philadelphia Merchant Ship 
B in the National Association Football League. During his time with the 
team, he met Dick Spalding, another two sport athlete, whom he later hired 
as his first base coach when Wilson managed the Phillies and Cubs. After 
Merchant Ship folded following the 1919-1920 season, Wilson moved to Bethlehem 
Steel F.C., signing with the team in July 1920.[1] During his time in Bethlehem, 
he also played catcher for the steel company's baseball team which competed 
in the Steel League. In 1921, Wilson signed with Harrison F.C. in the newly 
established American Soccer League. He played thirteen league and three 
National Challenge Cup games, scoring four goals. During the 1922-1923 
season, he played four games for Philadelphia Field Club before leaving 
the sport to concentrate on his baseball career.[2] During his years playing 
first division soccer, Wilson also made a name for himself as an excellent 
baseball player. When he signed with Bethlehem Steel in July 1920, the 
local newspaper stated, "The addition of Wilson would be a most welcome 
one, because his campaigning on the baseball diamond has been as brilliant 
as that in soccer circles. At present he is on the receiving end of the 
battery for the New Haven team in the Eastern League."[1] In February 1923, 
he gave up his soccer career when he was traded from New Haven in the Eastern 
League to the Philadelphia Phillies in the National League for Stan Baumgartner 
and Jack Withrow. Wilson's National League playing career would stretch 
over 18 seasons (1923–40) with the Philadelphia Phillies, St. Louis Cardinals 
and the Cincinnati Reds. He hit over .300 four times as a regular catcher 
and for his career batted .284 in 1,525 games. In 1928, he joined baseball 
history when he was traded by the Phillies to the Cardinals during a game 
between the two teams. According to one account, "Wilson was a Phil for 
two innings, then darted into Redbird regalia, and sat on the St. Louis 
bench, for the remainder of the game."[3] After the 1933 season, he was 
traded back to the Phillies for fellow catcher Spud Davis and infielder 
Eddie Delker. From 1934 through 1938, he was the player-manager of his 
hometown Phillies, one of the worst teams in baseball at the time. He guided 
the Phils to three seventh place and two eighth (last) place finishes; 
in his final season, Philadelphia lost 103 of 149 games. He then joined 
the Cincinnati coaching staff in 1939 and played only four games that season. 
In August 1940, the Reds were stunned when Willard Hershberger, backup 
catcher to future Baseball Hall of Famer Ernie Lombardi, committed suicide 
in his Boston hotel room. The 40-year-old Wilson came off the coaching 
lines and joined the active roster, serving as the club's third catcher 
behind Lombardi and rookie Bill Baker. He played three games in August, 
but then in September Lombardi injured his ankle, and Wilson was pressed 
into starting duty. Splitting time with Baker and Dick West, Wilson played 
in 16 games during the pennant race, batting .243. When Lombardi was unable 
to return for more than spot duty in the 1940 World Series, Wilson came 
through, batting .353 in six games and playing a key role in Cincinnati's 
defeat of the Detroit Tigers, four games to three, for the world championship. 
His stardom in the 1940 Fall Classic led to his second and last major league 
managing job, with the Chicago Cubs (1941–44), but he never had a winning 
record in Wrigleyville and his highest finish was fifth, in 1943. The following 
season, Wison resigned as manager of the Cubs after the team followed up 
an opening day victory with nine straight defeats to open the season.[4] 
He was replaced by Roy Johnson for one game before Charlie Grimm took over 
as manager of the Cubs. His final record as a manager, over nine full or 
partial seasons was: 493 wins and 735 losses (.401). Wilson returned to 
Cincinnati as a coach in 1945–46. Released along with Reds manager Bill 
McKechnie at the end of the 1946 season, Wilson moved to Florida and entered 
the citrus growing business. He died suddenly of a heart attack at the 
age of 46 the following May in Bradenton. Wilson was also the father of 
2nd Lt. Robert J. Wilson, a B-29 Flight Crew member who died in a training 
