James John Walker, often known as Jimmy Walker and colloquially as Beau 
James (June 19, 1881 – November 18, 1946), was mayor of New York City from 
1926 to 1932. A flamboyant politician, he was a liberal Democrat and part 
of the powerful Tammany Hall machine. During a corruption scandal he was 
forced to resign. Walker was the son of Irish-born William H. Walker (1842–1916), 
a carpenter and lumberyard owner who was very active in local politics 
as a Democratic assemblyman and alderman from Greenwich Village, belying 
certain accounts of Walker's childhood that stated he grew up in poverty. 
Walker was not the best of students and dropped out of college before eventually 
graduating from New York Law School in 1904. Walker's father wanted him 
to become a lawyer and politician. Walker at first decided that he would 
rather write songs and be involved in the music industry but he eventually 
entered politics in 1909 and subsequently passed the bar exam in 1912.[1] 
Walker was a member of the New York State Assembly (New York Co., 5th D.) 
in 1910, 1911, 1912, 1913 and 1914. He was a member of the New York State 
Senate from 1915 to 1925, sitting in the 138th, 139th, 140th, 141st (all 
four 13th D.), 142nd, 143rd, 144th, 145th, 146th, 147th and 148th New York 
State Legislatures (all seven 12th D.); and was Minority Leader from 1920 
to 1922; Temporary President of the State Senate from 1923 to 1924; and 
Minority Leader again in 1925. In the Senate he heavily opposed Prohibition. 
After his years in the Senate, Walker set his sights on the 1926 election 
for Mayor of New York. Beginning with the 1925 Democratic primary for mayor, 
Walker knew that to ultimately win the mayoral election he had to defeat 
the mayor, John Francis Hylan. Walker's reputation as a flamboyant man-about-town 
made him a hero to many working-class voters; he was often seen at legitimate 
theaters and illegitimate speakeasies. Walker was a clothes horse: his 
valet packed 43 suits for his trip to Europe in August 1927.[2] On the 
other hand, his reputation for tolerating corruption made him suspect to 
middle-class and moralistic voters. Governor Alfred E. Smith was his mentor.[1] 
Smith was a staunch supporter since Walker backed many social and cultural 
issues that were considered politically important such as social welfare 
legislation, legalization of boxing, repeal of blue laws against Sunday 
baseball games, condemning the Ku Klux Klan, and especially their mutual 
opposition to Prohibition.[1] Smith knew the secret to how Walker won the 
election, and overcoming his tarnished reputation was for Smith to guide 
Walker's every move. Smith used his base in the strong political machine 
of Tammany Hall to secure this victory. Finally, Walker himself had to 
be willing to change some of his more unscrupulous ways or at least provide 
a cover for his indiscretions. As with many of the things in Walker's life, 
he chose the latter. Instead of ending his visits to the speakeasies and 
his friendships with chorus girls, he took those activities behind the 
closed doors of a penthouse funded by Tammany Hall.[3] Walker defeated 
Hylan in the Democratic primary, and, after defeating Republican mayoral 
candidate Frank D. Waterman in the general election, he became mayor of 
New York. In his initial years as mayor, Walker saw the city prosper and 
many public works projects gain traction. In his first year, Walker created 
the Department of Sanitation, unified New York's public hospitals, improved 
many parks and playgrounds, and guided the Board of Transportation to enter 
into contract for the construction of an expanded subway system (the Independent 
Subway System or IND). He even managed to maintain the five-cent subway 
fare despite a threatened strike by the workers.[3] However, Walker's term 
was also known for the proliferation of speakeasies during Prohibition. 
It is a noted aspect of his career as mayor and as a member of the State 
Senate that Walker was strongly opposed to Prohibition. As mayor, Walker 
led his administration in challenging the Eighteenth Amendment by replacing 
the police commissioner with an inexperienced former state banking commissioner. 
The new police commissioner immediately dissolved the Special Service Squad. 
Since Walker did not feel that drinking was a crime, he discouraged the 
police from enforcing Prohibition law or taking an active role unless it 
was to curb excessive violations or would prove to be newsworthy.[4] His 
affairs with "chorus girls" were widely known, and he left his wife, Janet, 
for showgirl Betty Compton. Walker was re-elected by an overwhelming margin 
in 1929, defeating Republican Fiorello La Guardia and Socialist Norman 
Thomas. Walker's fortunes turned downward with the economy after the stock-market 
crash of 1929. Patrick Joseph Hayes, the Cardinal Archbishop of New York, 
denounced him, implying that the immorality of the mayor, both personal 
and political in tolerating "girlie magazines" and casinos was a cause 
of the economic downturn. It was one of the causes that led to Tammany 
Hall's pulling its support for Walker.[5] Increasing social unrest led 
to investigations into corruption within his administration, and he was 
eventually forced to testify before the investigative committee of Judge 
Samuel Seabury, the Seabury Commission (also known as the Hofstadter Committee). 
Walker caused his own downfall by accepting large sums of money from businessmen 
looking for municipal contracts.[5] One surprise witness in the Seabury 
investigation was Vivian Gordon. She informed the investigators that women 
were falsely arrested and accused of prostitution by the New York City 
Police Department. Police officers were given more money in their paychecks. 
After her testimony, Gordon was suspiciously found strangled to death in 
a park in the Bronx. That demonstrated to New Yorkers that corruption could 
lead to terrible consequences and that Walker might ultimately, in some 
way, be responsible for her death.[6] With New York City appearing as a 
symbol of corruption under Mayor Walker, Governor Franklin D. Roosevelt 
knew he had to do something about Walker and his administration. Knowing 
that the State constitution could allow an elected mayor to be removed 
from office, Roosevelt felt compelled to do so but risked losing Tammany 
Hall's support for the Democratic nomination. On the other hand, if Roosevelt 
did nothing or let Walker off, the national newspapers would consider him 
weak.[6] Facing pressure from Roosevelt, Walker eluded questions about 
his personal bank accounts, stating instead that the money he received 
were "beneficences" and not bribes.[1] He delayed any personal appearances 
until after Roosevelt's nomination was secured. It was then that the embattled 
mayor could fight no longer. Months from his national election, Roosevelt 
decided that he must remove Walker from office. Walker agreed and resigned 
on September 1, 1932. He went on a grand tour of Europe with Compton, his 
Ziegfeld girl.[3] Walker stayed in Europe until the danger of criminal 
prosecution appeared remote.[5] There, he married Compton. After his return 
to the United States, Walker acted as head of Majestic Records, which included 
such popular performing artists as Louis Prima and Bud Freeman.[1] He died 
at the age of 65 of a brain hemorrhage.[7] He was interred in the Gate 
of Heaven Cemetery in Hawthorne, New York. When Walker was a member of 
the New York State Senate, he sponsored the "Walker Law" to legalize boxing 
in New York. He was honored a number of times over the years by the boxing 
community. Walker is a member of the International Boxing Hall of Fame 
and was given the Edward J. Neil Trophy in 1945 for his service to the 
sport. A romanticized version of Walker's tenure as mayor was presented 
in the 1957 film Beau James, starring Bob Hope.[8] This was a somewhat 
accurate depiction of Walker, who during his time as mayor had become a 
symbol of the jazz age romanticism.[5] The film was based on a biography 
of Walker, also titled Beau James, written by Gene Fowler. The book was 
also the basis for Jimmy, a stage musical about Walker that had a brief 
Broadway run from October 1969 to January 1970. The show starred Frank 
Gorshin as Walker and Anita Gillette as Betty Compton.[9] There is also 
a song about Walker in the stage musical Fiorello!, "Gentleman Jimmy".[10] 
Footage of Walker is used in the 1983 Woody Allen film Zelig, with Walker 
being one of the guests during Zelig's visit to William Randolph Hearst's 
mansion in San Simeon, California. The 1935 novel It Can't Happen Here, 
by Sinclair Lewis, lists the exiles in Paris as "Jimmy Walker, and a few 
ex-presidents from South America and Cuba".[11] Walker was referenced in 
"Last Call", the December 6, 2010, episode of the ABC television series, 
Castle. The political and criminal activity surrounding Walker's 1929 campaign 
