James Anthony Piersall (born November 14, 1929) is an American former baseball 
center fielder who played 17 seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB) for 
five teams, from 1950 through 1967. Piersall is best known for his well-publicized 
battle with bipolar disorder that became the subject of the book and movie 
Fear Strikes Out. Piersall led the Leavenworth High School (Waterbury, 
Connecticut) basketball team to the 1947 New England championship, scoring 
29 points in the final game. Piersall became a professional baseball player 
at age 18, signing a contract with the Boston Red Sox in 1948. He reached 
Major League Baseball in 1950, playing in six games as one of its youngest 
players. In 1952, he earned a more substantial role with the Red Sox, frequently 
referring to himself as "the Waterbury Wizard", a nickname not well received 
by teammates. On June 10, 1953, he set the Red Sox club record for hits 
in a 9 inning game, with 6. On May 24, 1952, just before a game against 
the New York Yankees, Piersall engaged in a fistfight with Yankee infielder 
Billy Martin. Following the brawl, Piersall briefly scuffled with teammate 
Mickey McDermott in the Red Sox clubhouse. After several such incidents, 
including Piersall spanking the four-year-old son of teammate Vern Stephens 
in the Red Sox clubhouse during a game, he was demoted to the minor league 
Birmingham Barons on June 28. In less than three weeks with the Barons, 
Piersall was ejected on four occasions, the last coming after striking 
out in the second inning on July 16. Prior to his at-bat, he had acknowledged 
teammate Milt Bolling's home run by spraying a water pistol on home plate. 
Piersall then moved to the grandstand roof to heckle home plate umpire 
Neil Strocchia. Receiving a three-day suspension, Piersall entered treatment 
three days later at the Westborough State Hospital in Massachusetts. Diagnosed 
with "nervous exhaustion", he spent the next seven weeks in the facility 
and missed the remainder of the season. Piersall returned to the Red Sox 
in the 1953 season, finishing ninth in voting for the MVP Award, and remained 
a fixture in the starting lineup through 1958. He once stepped up to bat 
wearing a Beatles wig and playing "air guitar" on his bat, led cheers for 
himself in the outfield during breaks in play, and "talked" to Babe Ruth 
behind the center field monuments at Yankee Stadium. In his autobiography, 
Piersall commented, "Probably the best thing that ever happened to me was 
going nuts. Who ever heard of Jimmy Piersall, until that happened?" Piersall 
was selected to the American League All-Star team in 1954 and 1956. By 
the end of the 1956 season, in which he played all 156 games, he posted 
a league-leading 40 doubles, scored 91 runs, drove in 87, and had a .293 
batting average. The following year, he hit 19 home runs and scored 103 
runs. He won a Gold Glove Award in 1958. On December 2, 1958, Piersall 
was traded to the Cleveland Indians for first baseman Vic Wertz and outfielder 
Gary Geiger. Piersall was reunited with his former combatant Billy Martin, 
who also had been acquired by the team. In a Memorial Day doubleheader 
at Chicago in 1960, he was ejected in the first game for heckling umpire 
Larry Napp, then after catching the final out of the second game, whirled 
around and threw the ball at the White Sox' scoreboard. He later wore a 
little league helmet during an at-bat against the Detroit Tigers, and after 
a series of incidents against the Yankees, Indians team physician Donald 
Kelly ordered psychiatric treatment on June 26. After a brief absence, 
Piersall returned only to earn his sixth ejection of the season on July 
23, when he was banished after running back and forth in the outfield while 
the Red Sox' Ted Williams was at bat. His subsequent meeting with American 
League president Joe Cronin and the departure of manager Joe Gordon seemed 
to settle Piersall down for the remainder of the season. Piersall came 
back during the 1961 season, earning a second Gold Glove while also finishing 
third in the batting race with a .322 average. However, he remained a volatile 
player, charging the mound after being hit by a Jim Bunning pitch on June 
25, then violently hurling his helmet a month later, earning him a $100 
fine in each case. On September 5, Piersall's 74-year-old father died of 
a heart attack. Two days after attending the funeral, Piersall returned 
to play in New York only to be the target of fan abuse. During the September 
10 doubleheader at Yankee Stadium, Piersall was accosted on the field by 
two fans, one of whom he punched before attempting to kick the other.[1] 
Despite the minor eruptions, Piersall earned a $2,500 bonus for improved 
behavior, but was dealt to the Washington Senators on October 5. The outfielder 
was then sent to the New York Mets on May 23, 1963, for cash and a player 
to be named later. In a reserve role with the second-year team, Piersall 
played briefly under manager Casey Stengel. In the fifth inning of the 
June 23 game against the Philadelphia Phillies, Piersall hit the 100th 
home run of his career, off Phillies pitcher Dallas Green. He ran around 
the bases in the correct order but facing backwards as he made the circuit.[2] 
One month after reaching the milestone, Piersall was released by the Mets, 
but he found employment with the Los Angeles Angels on July 28. He would 
finish his playing career with them, playing nearly four more years before 
moving into a front office position on May 8, 1967. In a 17-season career, 
Piersall was a .272 hitter with 104 home runs and 591 RBIs in 1,734 games. 
Piersall later had broadcasting jobs with the Texas Rangers beginning in 
1974 (doing color and play-by-play for televised games) and with the Chicago 
White Sox from 1977 to 1981, and was teamed with Harry Caray. He ultimately 
was fired after excessive on-air criticism of team management. He became 
the subject of a movie based on his writings, Fear Strikes Out, where he 
was portrayed by Anthony Perkins (directed by Robert Mulligan). Piersall 
eventually disowned the film due to what he believed were its distortion 
of the facts, including over-blaming his father for his problems. Besides 
Fear Strikes Out, Piersall authored The Truth Hurts, in which he details 
his ouster from the White Sox organization. Piersall, who winters in Arizona 
and still does a sports radio show in Chicago, was invited to a White House 
event honoring the 2004 World Champions Boston Red Sox on March 2, 2005. 
According to a Red Sox official, the White House prepared a guest list 
of about 1,000 for the event, scheduled to be staged on the South Lawn. 
"This is a real thrill for a poor kid from Waterbury, Connecticut", Piersall 
said. "I'm a 75 year old man. There aren't many things left." He also said 
he visited the White House once before as guest of President John F. Kennedy. 
On September 17, 2010, Jimmy Piersall was inducted into the Boston Red 
Sox Hall of Fame. Jimmy appeared as a mystery guest on the television show 
What's My Line? that aired on April 28, 1957. Guest panelist Florida US 
Senator George Smathers correctly guessed Piersall's identity.[3] Piersall 
appeared on The Lucy Show with Lucille Ball and Gale Gordon. The episode 
originally was broadcast on September 13, 1965. Lucy, Mr. Mooney and Lucy's 
son meet Jimmy at Marineland on the Palos Verdes peninsula. Piersall has 
been married three times. He had nine children with his first wife Mary. 
They divorced in 1968. He resides in Chicago with his third wife Jan, whom 
