James Joseph Collins (January 16, 1870 – March 6, 1943) was an American 
professional baseball player. He played fourteen seasons in Major League 
Baseball. Collins was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1945. Collins 
was especially regarded for his defense. He was best known for his ability 
to field a bunt—prior to his debut, it was the shortstop who fielded bunts 
down the third base line—and is regarded as a pioneer of the modern defensive 
play of a third baseman. As of 2012, he is second all-time in putouts by 
a third baseman behind Brooks Robinson.[1] At the plate, Collins finished 
his career with 65 home runs, 1055 runs scored, 983 RBI and a .294 batting 
average. Collins was also the first manager of the Boston Red Sox franchise, 
then known as the Boston Americans. He was the winning manager in the first-ever 
World Series, as Boston defeated the Pittsburgh Pirates in the 1903 World 
Series, five games to three. Jimmy Collins was born in Niagara Falls, New 
York. After graduating St. Joseph's Collegiate Institute he went to work 
for the Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad and played baseball in 
the Buffalo City League. Collins began his professional baseball career 
with the minor league Buffalo Bisons of the Eastern League, the forerunner 
of the current International League, in 1893. That season, he was used 
primarily as a shortstop, batting .286 in 76 games.[2] In 1894, Collins 
was moved to the outfield by the Bisons. He batted .352 with nine home 
runs in 125 games, and after the season his contract was purchased by the 
Boston Beaneaters for $500.[3] Collins began his major league career as 
a right fielder, playing ten games at the position with the Beaneaters 
in 1895. On May 19, he was loaned to the Louisville Colonels, again for 
$500.[3] He was soon made the team's starting third baseman, batting .279 
over the remainder of the season. However, his larger impact was on defense, 
where he played in on the grass rather than back to cut down on the number 
of bunt hits.[4] Collins was returned to the Beaneaters after the 1895 
season. Joe Harrington was the club's starting third baseman at the beginning 
of the season, but Collins soon asserted himself as the starter, and Harrington 
was released in July.[5] Collins asserted himself as a skilled player in 
1897 when he held a .346 batting average and knocked in 132 runs. He led 
the league in both putouts and assists as well, a feat he would duplicate 
in 1900. He followed with an equally impressive 1898 season, in which he 
hit .328—seventh in the league—drove in 111 runs and belted a league-high 
15 home runs. Following the 1900 season, Collins, who was by now regarded 
as the best third baseman in the game, was offered the manager's job with 
the Boston Americans of the new American League. He accepted the job, which 
came with a salary of $5,500, a $3,500 signing bonus, and a cut of the 
team's profits, despite efforts by Beaneaters owner Arthur Soden to keep 
him.[4] The two traded accusations in the press, and Collins went further, 
accusing National League owners of conspiring to hold down salaries, stating 
"I would not go back now if they offered me the whole outfit."[4] Collins 
recruited other National League stars for the Americans' roster, including 
Cy Young,[4] and in his first season as player-manager guided the team 
to a second-place finish, four games behind the Chicago White Sox. In 1902, 
Collins was limited to 108 games by injury, and the Americans finished 
third.[4] He did hit the team's first ever inside-the-park grand slam however. 
The next season, Collins led the Americans to their first American League 
pennant, winning the league by 14½ games over the Philadelphia Athletics. 
With an agreement in place for the champions of the American and National 
Leagues to meet in a best-of-nine "World Series", Boston represented the 
Junior Circuit. After losing two out of three at home to start the series, 
then losing the first game in Pittsburgh, the Americans won the next three 
in Pittsburgh, then returned home to win Game Eight in Boston to become 
the first-ever World Series Champions. Collins himself batted .250 in the 
Series, with a pair of triples and five runs scored. The Americans won 
the pennant again in 1904, with Collins batting .271 and leading the league 
in putouts for the fifth time in eight seasons. However, the Americans 
would not get the opportunity to defend their title, as John McGraw and 
the New York Giants refused to play them in the postseason. In 1905, the 
Americans slipped to fourth place, and Collins clashed with team president 
John I. Taylor, reportedly quitting on the team during the season.[6] As 
a player, Collins batted .276, but again missed time due to injury. In 
1906, Collins found himself in hot water, as not only were the Americans 
in last, but he himself was suspended twice, and was eventually was replaced 
as manager by Chick Stahl.[6] He also missed the end of the season with 
a knee injury.[4] Collins began 1907 with Boston, but it was only a matter 
of time before he departed. Unable to cope with the pressures of managing, 
Stahl had committed suicide during the offseason, but instead of Collins 
the Americans turned to Cy Young as manager. After playing 41 games for 
Boston, Collins was traded to the Philadelphia Athletics in 1907 for infielder 
John Knight. While he batted .278, he had a career-low (to that point) 
.330 slugging percentage, and failed to hit a home run for the first time 
in his career. In 1908, he slumped even further, batting just .217, and 
was let go. After his major league career ended, Collins continued to play 
and manage in the minor leagues. He spent 1909 with the Minneapolis Millers 
of the American Association, then spent two seasons with the Providence 
Grays in the Eastern League before retiring. When Collins was inducted 
into the Hall of Fame in 1945, he was the first to be chosen primarily 
as a third baseman.[7] In 1981, Lawrence Ritter and Donald Honig included 
him in their book The 100 Greatest Baseball Players of All Time. Collins 
became a charter member of the Buffalo Baseball Hall of Fame in 1985.[8] 
In a 1976 Esquire magazine article, sportswriter Harry Stein published 
an "All Time All-Star Argument Starter", consisting of five ethnic baseball 
teams. Because of space limitations the Irish team, including Collins as 
third baseman, was omitted.[citation needed] Jimmy Collins married Sarah 
Murphy in 1907, and the couple had two daughters.[4] After his retirement 
from baseball, they moved back to Buffalo, where Collins worked for the 
Buffalo Parks Department.[4] Collins died of pneumonia on March 6, 1943 
at the age of 73.[4] Boston-based Celtic punk band Dropkick Murphys recorded 
the song "Jimmy Collins' Wake" on their 2013 album Signed and Sealed in 
Blood. The song, originally written by Richard Johnson, recounts Collins' 
