As Player As Manager James Phillip "Jimmy" Austin (December 8, 1879 – March 
6, 1965) was a professional baseball player and coach. Austin was born 
in Swansea, Wales, the son of a shipbuilder. He was one of only three Major 
League Baseball players to be born in Wales (the others being pitcher Ted 
Lewis and infielder Peter Morris). His father moved to the United States 
in 1885 to find work, and Austin followed in 1887. He did not see a baseball 
game until he was 14 years old.[1] After leaving school in 1889, Austin 
became an apprentice machinist with Westinghouse. After finishing his four-year 
apprenticeship, Westinghouse went on strike. Austin took up an offer of 
$40 a month, plus a job, to play independent ball in Warren, Ohio. He returned 
to Westinghouse that fall, but in the spring of 1904, he signed with the 
Central League's Dayton, Ohio club. Austin remained in Dayton until 1907, 
when he was sold to Omaha in the Western League. He stole 97 bases for 
Omaha in 1908, and at the end of the season was sold to the New York Highlanders 
of the American League. He made his major league debut in 1909 at the relatively 
advanced age (for baseball) of 28. That year, Austin became immortalized 
in the Charles M. Conlon photo as the third baseman trying to avoid Ty 
Cobb's spikes on a stolen base. Of the play, Austin said, "That's Cobb 
sliding into third and the other guy is me." He played two seasons in New 
York, but was traded to the St. Louis Browns in 1911 by new Highlanders 
manager Hal Chase, thus beginning a thirty-year career with the Browns 
as player and coach. In 1913, when the Browns' player-manager George Stovall 
was suspended by the American League for spitting at an umpire, Austin 
was made manager on a temporary basis, until he was replaced by the legendary 
Branch Rickey. It was Rickey's first managerial job. Austin continued as 
Rickey's "Sunday Manager" – Rickey had promised his mother that he would 
not enter a ballpark on the Christian Sabbath, and therefore Austin managed 
the Browns on those days. Austin played regularly for the Browns until 
1921, and served as a coach for another 20 years. Unfortunately, the Browns 
during this period were rarely ever in the first division, so his team 
won no pennants during his playing career. The Browns did however finish 
the 1922 season in second place, one game behind the New York Yankees. 
Austin did also have the great fortune of either playing for or coaching 
baseball greats Branch Rickey, George Sisler and Rogers Hornsby. In 1929, 
at the age of 49, Austin became one of the oldest major leaguers in history 
when he was inserted into a blowout. He cleanly handled two chances at 
third base, and struck out in his only at bat. After his coaching career 
ended, Austin retired and moved to Laguna Beach, California, and served 
as the town's mayor during the 1940s.[1] Austin was one of the ballplayers 
who told his story in Lawrence Ritter's classic 1965 book, The Glory of 
