Joan Whitney Payson (February 5, 1903 – October 4, 1975) was an American 
heiress, businesswoman, philanthropist, patron of the arts and art collector, 
and a member of the prominent Whitney family. She was also co-founder and 
majority owner of Major League Baseball's New York Mets baseball franchise, 
and was the first woman to own a major-league team in North America without 
inheriting it. Joan Whitney was born in New York City, the daughter of 
Payne Whitney and Helen Julia Hay. Her brother was John Hay Whitney. She 
inherited a trust fund from her grandfather, William C. Whitney and on 
her father's death in 1927, she received a large part of the family fortune. 
She attended Miss Chapin's School, then studied at Barnard College for 
a year, as well as taking some courses at Brown.[2] She married lawyer 
and businessman Charles Shipman Payson, a native of Maine and a graduate 
of Yale University and Harvard Law School. Her husband was a Board member 
of Pepperdine University and together they provided the funds to build 
the university's library that was named for them. In 1943, she established 
and endowed the Helen Hay Whitney Foundation (named in honor of her mother) 
for medical research. An avid art collector, she purchased a variety of 
artwork but favored Impressionist and Post-Impressionist works with her 
collection containing watercolors, drawings and paintings. She owned numerous 
pieces including those by James McNeill Whistler, Pierre-Auguste Renoir, 
Gustave Courbet, Maurice Prendergast, Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres, Honoré 
Daumier, Joshua Reynolds, Claude Monet, Henri Rousseau, Jan Provost, Édouard 
Manet, Lucas Cranach the Elder, Paul Cézanne, Henri Matisse, and Alfred 
Sisley. Payson was also a strong supporter of American artists, acquiring 
works by Thomas Eakins, Arthur B. Davies, Andrew Wyeth, Winslow Homer and 
John Singer Sargent. Payson donated significant works to the Metropolitan 
Museum of Art in New York City where the "Joan Whitney Payson Galleries" 
can be found. The Joan Whitney Payson Collection is on permanent loan to 
the Portland Museum of Art in Portland, Maine and to Colby College in Waterville, 
Maine for one semester every two years. Regular educational tours of parts 
of the collection are offered to institutions throughout the United States. 
Joan Whitney Payson was a sports enthusiast who was a minority shareholder 
in the old New York Giants Major League Baseball club. She and her husband 
opposed moving the team to San Francisco in 1957. After the majority of 
the shareholders approved the move, Mrs. Payson sold her stock and began 
working to get a replacement team for New York City. Along with M. Donald 
Grant, the only other director who opposed the Giants' move, Payson put 
together a group that won a New York franchise in the Continental League, 
a proposed third major league. The National League responded by awarding 
an expansion team to Payson's group, which became the New York Mets. Payson 
served as the team's president from 1968–1975. Active in the affairs of 
the baseball club, she was much admired by the team's personnel and players. 
She was inducted posthumously into the New York Mets Hall of Fame in 1981. 
She was also the first woman to buy majority control of a team in a major 
North American sports league, rather than inheriting it.[3] Payson was 
instrumental in the return of Willie Mays to New York City baseball in 
May 1972 by way of trade and cash from the Giants.[4] Joan Whitney also 
inherited her father and grandfather's love of thoroughbred horse racing. 
Following her father's death, her mother took over management of his Greentree 
Stable, an equestrian estate and horse racing stable in Saratoga Springs, 
New York, and the Greentree breeding farm in Lexington, Kentucky. In 1932, 
her mother gave her a colt named Rose Cross whom she raced under the nom 
de course, Manhasset Stable. Rose Cross won the 1934 Dwyer Stakes and finished 
a good fifth in the Belmont Stakes. In partnership with her brother, Joan 
Whitney operated the highly successful Greentree stable, winning numerous 
important Graded stakes races including the Kentucky Derby twice, the Preakness 
Stakes once, and the Belmont Stakes four times. Payson and her husband 
owned an art-filled 50-room mansion at Greentree, the Whitney family estate 
in Manhasset, New York.[5] Joan Whitney Payson died in New York City, aged 
72, after the 1975 baseball season. She is buried in the Pine Grove Cemetery, 
in Falmouth, Maine. Following her death, her daughter, Lorinda de Roulet, 
assumed the title of president of the Mets. Her heirs sold their stock 
in the New York Mets in January 1980 as well as Greentree Farm. In 2005, 
the equestrian property in Saratoga Springs was put up for sale with an 
asking price of $19 million. In 1991, her son, John Whitney Payson, permanently 
installed the Joan Whitney Payson Collection in the Portland Museum of 
Art in Portland, Maine where the Charles Shipman Payson Building cornerstones 
the Museum and is home to seventeen paintings by Winslow Homer he donated. 
