Joseph Henry "Joe" West (born October 31, 1952), nicknamed "Cowboy Joe" 
or "Country Joe," is an American professional baseball umpire in Major 
League Baseball (MLB). Born in Asheville, North Carolina, he grew up in 
Greenville and played football at East Carolina University (ECU) and Elon 
College. West entered the National League as an umpire in 1976; he joined 
the NL staff full-time in 1978. West has worn uniform number 22 throughout 
his career. As a young umpire, West worked Nolan Ryan's fifth career no-hitter, 
was on the field for Willie McCovey's 500th home run, and was involved 
in a 1983 pushing incident with manager Joe Torre. A few years later, West 
was the home plate umpire during the 1988 playoff game in which pitcher 
Jay Howell was ejected for having pine tar on his glove. In 1990, he threw 
pitcher Dennis Cook to the ground while attempting to break up a fight. 
West resigned during the 1999 Major League Umpires Association mass resignation, 
but was rehired in 2002. Since then, he has umpired throughout MLB. In 
a 2004 playoff game between the Boston Red Sox and New York Yankees, West's 
crew made a controversial decision that necessitated police presence to 
calm the crowd. He served as crew chief for the 2005 World Series, and 
officiated in the 2009 World Baseball Classic. In 2010, West attracted 
media attention after he publicly complained about the slow pace of a game 
between the Red Sox and Yankees. He also worked the game that year in which 
Albert Pujols hit his 400th career home run. West has worked several no-hitters, 
including a 2012 perfect game by Félix Hernández. As of 2016, he has the 
longest tenure of any MLB umpire. West has appeared in six World Series, 
two All-Star Games, nine League Championship Series (LCS), eight League 
Division Series (LDS) and two Wild Card Games. West is president of the 
World Umpires Association (WUA). As the organization's president, West 
helped negotiate the largest umpiring contract in baseball history. He 
works with a sporting goods company to design and patent umpiring equipment 
endorsed by MLB. West is also a singer and songwriter, and has released 
two country music albums. He had a small acting role in the comedy film 
The Naked Gun: From the Files of Police Squad! and a cameo appearance in 
the television crime drama The Oldest Rookie. He plays golf on the Celebrity 
Players Tour. West was born in Asheville, North Carolina in 1952. He grew 
up in Greenville, North Carolina, where he played youth baseball and football. 
He graduated from Rose High School in Greenville.[1] West played safety 
on the freshman football team at East Carolina University (ECU) in 1970 
and he was a quarterback for Elon College (now Elon University) from 1971 
to 1973.[2][3] He intended to play his college football career at ECU, 
but head coach Mike McGee resigned after his freshman year, prompting West's 
transfer.[4] While in college, West hoped to play both baseball and football. 
However, spring practice for football interfered with West's ability to 
be on the baseball team as well. He concentrated on football and umpired 
high school baseball games on the side.[4] In his three seasons at Elon, 
West was the starting quarterback and the team won three conference championships. 
He was named Most Valuable Player (MVP) on the 1973 team that lost the 
Division I National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics title game 
to Abilene Christian; the Abilene Christian team was led by future professional 
football players Clint Longley and Wilbert Montgomery. West left Elon holding 
three passing records that were not broken for 20 years, and was inducted 
into the Elon Sports Hall of Fame in 1986, in the same class as former 
North Carolina State women's basketball coach Kay Yow.[2] While umpiring 
locally as a college student, West met Carolina League umpire supervisor 
Malcolm Sykes, who recommended that West attend an umpire training school. 
West went to umpire school and graduated at the top of his class. He worked 
in several minor-league circuits (the Western Carolinas League, Puerto 
Rican League, Florida Instructional League, Southern League and American 
Association) before he was promoted to the major leagues.[4] West made 
his first National League (NL) appearance in 1976 and joined the full-time 
NL staff in 1978.[2] In his first season as a full-time MLB umpire, West 
umpired the game in which Willie McCovey hit his 500th career home run. 
In the same year, he was at first base when Pete Rose tied the NL record 
for most consecutive games with a hit, and he was the home plate umpire 
when Rose broke it the following day. In 1981, West worked first base for 
Nolan Ryan’s fifth career no-hitter.[5] On October 13, 1981, West was 28 
when he became the youngest NL umpire to call an LCS.[2] In 1983, West 
was suspended for three days and fined US$500 after a shoving incident 
with Atlanta Braves manager Joe Torre. The manager became angry at the 
end of a game and followed West into the walkway outside the umpires dressing 
room. West then shoved Torre. On appeal, NL President Chub Feeney reduced 
West's fine to $300. Torre also received a fine stemming from the incident.[6] 
West made his second NLCS appearance in 1986. He umpired his first All-Star 
Game in 1987.[2] On September 28, 1988, West was on the field when Orel 
Hershiser set the MLB record for consecutive scoreless innings pitched.[7] 
West returned to the NLCS in 1988 and was the plate umpire when Dodgers 
pitcher Jay Howell was ejected for having pine tar on his glove.[8] During 
a 1990 on-field brawl, West attempted to break up the fight by throwing 
Phillies pitcher Dennis Cook to the ground. The matter ultimately was handled 
among West, NL President Bill White, then-Commissioner Fay Vincent and 
the umpires union.[9] West said White supported his actions in the brawl, 
but White quickly issued a statement saying he had prohibited West from 
making further physical contact with players. White was reported to have 
nearly resigned due to lack of support from Vincent, but the NL president 
remained in his post after receiving support from league owners.[10] West 
met more controversy the next year when Chicago Cubs outfielder Andre Dawson 
bumped him after a called third strike during a game at Wrigley Field. 
After Dawson was ejected from the game, he walked back to the dugout and 
tossed 14 bats onto the field. Chicago fans threw debris onto the field, 
causing a delay in the game. Dawson received a one-game suspension and 
a $1,000 fine.[11] On his check to the league, Dawson wrote "donation for 
the blind."[12] In 1992, West made his first World Series appearance when 
the Atlanta Braves faced the Toronto Blue Jays. West was behind the plate 
in the first World Series game played in Canada and ejected Braves manager 
Bobby Cox for throwing a helmet onto the field.[13] In 1993, he appeared 
in the NLCS. He worked another no-hitter on April 8, 1994, when Kent Mercker 
shut down the Los Angeles Dodgers. The 1995 NLDS was West’s first League 
Division Series. The following year West worked in the NLCS. He returned 
to the World Series in 1997, when the Cleveland Indians faced the Florida 
Marlins.[2] In 1999, West was among 22 MLB umpires who engaged in mass 
resignations during a labor dispute.[14] The strategy backfired when MLB 
simply accepted the resignations instead of entering into further negotiations 
with the umpiring union.[15] The union filed charges against MLB with the 
National Labor Relations Board, saying the mass resignation was "a concerted 
action protected by law."[15] After arbitration and appeals, MLB settled 
with the union. A few umpires received severance pay and were allowed to 
retire under the settlement, but West and several other umpires were rehired 
by MLB in 2002.[14] In the same year he returned to the field, West worked 
in the ALDS. He also umpired in the 2003 and 2004 ALCS. In game six of 
the latter series, West's crew ruled Yankees batter Alex Rodriguez out 
for interference after Rodriguez appeared to swat the ball out of the glove 
of opposing pitcher Bronson Arroyo on his way to first base. Fans threw 
debris on the field, Red Sox manager Terry Francona pulled his team off 
the field, and NYPD officers in riot gear took to the field to calm the 
crowd. West said fans actually applauded the umpires for the correct call 
when they came onto the field the following day.[16] West’s first All-Star 
Game and World Series appearances after his rehire came in 2005; that year 
he umpired in his second ALDS and his third World Series, serving as World 
Series crew chief.[2] West was the home plate umpire when rookie pitcher 
Clay Buchholz threw a no-hitter against the Baltimore Orioles on September 
1, 2007, at Fenway Park; West called a curveball strike three for the final 
out.[17] He worked his 4,000th career game on July 30, 2009, at Miller 
Park in Milwaukee, Wisconsin; he ejected Washington Nationals manager Jim 
Riggleman from the contest.[5] That same year he appeared in the American 
League Division Series and the World Series. He was also elected president 
of the World Umpires Association (WUA).[18] West and the union's governing 
board negotiated the largest umpiring contract in the history of MLB. The 
contract ran from 2010 through the 2014 season. West designed the chest 
protector sold commercially as the West Vest, now marketed by Wilson Sporting 
Goods.[19] He holds patents on the West Vest in the US, Australia, Canada 
and Japan. He also designed Wilson's high-end umpiring gear, the only umpiring 
equipment endorsed by MLB.[2] In 2010, West sparked controversy by criticizing 
the slow pace of the recently completed series between the New York Yankees 
and Boston Red Sox, which he called "pathetic and embarrassing."[20] Red 
Sox manager Terry Francona referred to the remarks as "troubling", while 
Yankees closer Mariano Rivera remarked, "If he has places to go, let him 
do something else."[21] Columnist Wallace Matthews defended West, saying 
the umpire was simply expressing what people had been thinking for a long 
time.[22] West was not fined by MLB for his comments, but was "admonished 
firmly," according to press reports.[23] On May 26, 2010, West made two 
questionable balk calls on Mark Buehrle and consequently threw White Sox 
manager Ozzie Guillen out of the game for arguing and Buehrle for throwing 
his glove. The Chicago announcer, Ken Harrelson, said that West was becoming 
a "joke to the umpiring profession" and was "in need of a suspension."[24] 
On August 26, 2010, West was the plate umpire for Albert Pujols’ 400th 
career home run.[25] On September 14, 2014, West ejected Jonathan Papelbon, 
resulting in a confrontation where West grabbed Papelbon's jersey. [26] 
MLB subsequently suspended Papelbon for seven games for his lewd act and 
West for one game for initiating contact with Papelbon, marking the first 
umpire suspension since Fieldin Culbreth's May 2013 suspension for misapplication 
of baseball rules and the first on-field misconduct suspension of an umpire 
since Bob Davidson's May 2012 suspension for situation handling violations 
related to his ejection of Phillies Manager Charlie Manuel.[27] West later 
claimed Papelbon had initiated first contact,[28] but Major League Baseball 
determined that the video replay showed West was not correct, and that 
the contact was initiated by West.[29] West umpired in his second NLDS 
(and fifth LDS) in 2011. The next year West was the first base umpire for 
Félix Hernández's August 15 perfect game against the Tampa Bay Rays.[30] 
He umpired another NLDS that year, then appeared in his fifth World Series. 
His career has spanned the tenure of baseball commissioners Bowie Kuhn, 
Peter Ueberroth, Bart Giamatti, Fay Vincent, Bud Selig and Rob Manfred.[2] 
The 2015 season was West's 38th in MLB, making him MLB's most senior umpire.[2] 
Umpire Bruce Froemming, who was previously the most senior umpire, spent 
37 seasons in MLB, retiring at the end of the 2007 season.[31] West has 
been mentioned in several polls of MLB players. In 2006, the spring after 
he was crew chief in the World Series, a Sports Illustrated survey asked 
470 MLB players to identify the best and worst umpires. West was identified 
as the best MLB umpire by 2 percent of those players, ranking him ninth 
on that list. With respect to the worst umpire, 6 percent of players in 
the survey selected West. Only three umpires were named more frequently 
as worst umpire in the survey.[32] A 2007 review of umpire strike zones 
by The Hardball Times determined that West was the most consistent umpire 
in the major leagues.[33] In a 2010 poll of 100 players, West ranked as 
the second-worst umpire in the league.[34] In a 2011 players poll, West 
was named the best MLB umpire by 5 percent of players polled, placing him 
fifth. However, he was named the worst umpire in the same poll by 41 percent 
of players polled.[35] West is known outside of umpiring as a singer–songwriter. 
His involvement in country music and his demeanor on the field have earned 
him the nickname "Cowboy Joe."[36] West has described his music as "two 
chords and the truth. ... It's simple. It tells a story."[37] In 2009, 
West said of his music pursuits, "I was lucky. You know, the dues you have 
to pay to get here as an umpire are long and tedious, but the music business, 
because I was already in the major leagues, kind of opened a lot of doors 
I normally wouldn't have been able to open."[5] West has appeared at the 
Grand Ole Opry.[5] He has performed with Mickey Gilley, Johnny Lee and 
Merle Haggard.[38] West served as a pallbearer for Boxcar Willie.[36] West 
released his first album, Blue Cowboy, in 1987. Blue Cowboy is an album 
of three original songs and five covers. Chuck Yarborough of the Cleveland 
Plain Dealer said, "Listening to the first excerpt of his "Blue Cowboy" 
made me balk—you'll pardon the expression—at listening to the second. But 
I did. And the third. And so on. And now? Well, if I'm Nashville, I run 
West outta the game. The Hook. The Heave-Ho. The Thumb."[39] In a September 
2012 review, music blog Long After Dark said, "Blue Cowboy easily ranks 
with Ron Artest and Carl Lewis as one of the worst albums that a sports 
figure has cut ... ever. I can say that I managed to make it through the 
record, although it was not easy."[40] He released Diamond Dreams in 2008. 
The album was a collaboration with Kent Goodson, pianist for country star 
George Jones. It tells baseball stories inspired by West's umpiring career.[36] 
Goodson later said, "As I look back on how this CD came together, I realize 
that I am a musician and Joe is an umpire. But his love for music and my 
love for baseball bonded us in this project."[41] Sports blogger Voodoo 
Brown described West as "in creepmode from the gate."[42] Sportswriter 
Doug Miller said that the album was "a fun, humorous and often touching 
collection of spoken-word gems in which the listener gets a perfect sampling 
of the true personality of Cowboy Joe West."[43] West has made one film 
appearance, playing a third base umpire in the 1988 comedy film The Naked 
Gun: From the Files of Police Squad![5] He also made a cameo appearance 
on the television crime drama The Oldest Rookie,[44] An avid golfer, West 
