Joseph Black (February 8, 1924 – May 17, 2002) was an American right-handed 
pitcher in Negro League and Major League Baseball for the Brooklyn Dodgers, 
Cincinnati Redlegs, and Washington Senators who became the first black 
pitcher to win a World Series game, in 1952. Black died of prostate cancer 
at age 78. A native of Plainfield, New Jersey, he starred at Plainfield 
High School.[1][2] Black attended on a baseball scholarship and graduated 
from Morgan State University in 1950 and later received an honorary doctorate 
from Shaw University. He was a member of Omega Psi Phi fraternity. He appears 
prominently in Roger Kahn's classic book, The Boys of Summer. Black helped 
the Baltimore Elite Giants of the Negro Leagues win two championships in 
seven years. He and Jackie Robinson pushed for a pension plan for Negro 
League players and was instrumental in the inclusion of players who played 
before 1944 Black then played for a year in the Brooklyn Dodgers' minor 
league system. The Dodgers promoted Black to the major leagues in 1952 
at 28, five years after teammate Jackie Robinson broke baseball's color 
barrier. He roomed with Robinson while with Brooklyn, and was dominant 
out of the bullpen, chosen Rookie of the Year after winning 15 games and 
saving 15 others for the National League champions. He had a 2.15 ERA but, 
with 142 innings pitched, fell eight innings short of winning the ERA title. 
Strapped for pitching, Dodgers manager Chuck Dressen brought Black out 
of the bullpen and started him three times in seven days in the 1952 World 
Series against the New York Yankees. He won the opener with a six-hitter 
over Allie Reynolds, 4–2, then lost the fourth game, 2–0, and the seventh, 
4–2 The next spring after the World Series, Dressen urged Black to add 
some pitches to his strong slowball, which was his favorite pitch. In six 
seasons, he compiled a 30–12 record, half of his wins coming in his rookie 
season. After his career ended, Black was a scout for the Senators (1959–60). 
He taught health and physical education at Hubbard Junior High School in 
Plainfield, New Jersey, and later became an executive with Greyhound in 
Phoenix. In addition to lobbying for black players, he remained in baseball 
through his affiliation with the commissioner's office, where he consulted 
with players about career choices. In 1991, Black appeared as a fictional 
character 'Joe 'Playday' Sims', in TV's Cosby Show, in the 7th Season episode, 
"There's Still No Joy in Mudville", which originally aired April 4, 1991. 
He was a board director of the Baseball Assistance Team and worked for 
the Arizona Diamondbacks in community relations after they joined the National 
League in 1998. Black was a regular in the Diamondbacks' dugout during 
batting practice and in the press box. He also did a lot of charity work 
in the Phoenix area. He wrote a syndicated column, "By The Way", for Ebony 
magazine and an autobiography, Ain't Nobody Better Than You. Black was 
interred in the Hillside Cemetery of Scotch Plains, New Jersey. The Arizona 
Fall League's Most Valuable Player award is named for Black.[3] First presented 
in 2002, the award honors the 1952 National League Rookie of the Year.[3] 
There is a plaque honoring him at Chase Field alongside the Diamondbacks' 
championships and retired numbers. Beginning in 2010, the Washington Nationals 
will present the Joe Black Award to a Washington area organization chosen 
for its work promoting baseball in African American communities.[needs 
update] The award recognizes Black as the first African American player 
