Joseph Henry "Joe" Garagiola Sr. (February 12, 1926 – March 23, 2016) was 
an American professional baseball catcher, later an announcer and television 
host, popular for his colorful personality. Garagiola played nine seasons 
in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the St. Louis Cardinals, Pittsburgh 
Pirates, Chicago Cubs, and the New York Giants. He was also well known 
outside of baseball for having been one of the regular panelists on The 
Today Show for many years, and for his numerous appearances on game shows, 
both as a host and panelist. Garagiola was born in St. Louis, Missouri. 
He grew up on Elizabeth Avenue in an Italian-American neighborhood in St. 
Louis known as The Hill, just across the street from his childhood friend 
and competitor, Yogi Berra. (That block was subsequently renamed "Hall 
of Fame Place".) [1] When Berra and Garagiola were both teenagers, almost 
all pro scouts rated Garagiola as the better baseball prospect, although 
Berra had a Hall of Fame career, and Garagiola always respected Berra's 
ability. About growing up living next to Berra, Garagiola once said, "Not 
only was I not the best catcher in the Major Leagues, I wasn't even the 
best catcher on my street!" Garagiola was signed at age 16 by the St. Louis 
Cardinals organization. At age 17, he remains the youngest player to play 
in Columbus Red Birds history. Garagiola advanced to Columbus of the Class 
AA American Association in 1943, and was with them when he was called into 
military service on April 24, 1944. After taking basic training at Jefferson 
Barracks, Missouri, Garagiola was sent to Fort Riley, Kansas, where he 
quickly established himself as the catcher for the Fort Riley Centaurs, 
with teammates Rex Barney and Pete Reiser. Garagiola was sent to the Philippines 
in 1945, where he played ball for Kirby Higbe’s Manila Dodgers. He was 
discharged from service in early 1946, and he was just 20 years old when 
he joined the Cardinals. Garagiola made his major league debut in 1946. 
As a rookie in 1946, in his only World Series appearance, Garagiola batted 
a 6-for-19 in five games, including a Game 4 where he went 4-for-5 with 
3 RBIs. By contrast, Ted Williams went only 5-for-25 in the same series, 
which was also Williams' only World Series appearance. On September 11, 
1947, Joe Garagiola and Jackie Robinson were involved in an incident at 
home plate. Garagiola allegedly stepped on Robinson's foot and the two 
argued. Umpire Beans Reardon held back Garagiola while Robinson clapped.[2] 
The incident was later part of a children's book titled In the Year of 
the Boar and Jackie Robinson. Garagiola never quite lived up to the promise 
of his youth, appearing in only 676 games over 9 seasons for St. Louis, 
the Pittsburgh Pirates, Chicago Cubs, and New York Giants. He was a mediocre 
(though certainly good for a catcher) hitter in the majors, which featured 
in his self-deprecating humor. He once told this story himself: "He knew 
that it was time to retire when he was catching, and his ex-teammate Stan 
Musial stepped into the batter's box, turned to Joe, and said, "When are 
you gonna quit?"" Looking back at his career in 1970, Garagiola observed, 
"It's not a record, but being traded four times when there are only eight 
teams in the league tells you something. I thought I was modeling uniforms 
for the National League."[3] After his retirement from baseball, Garagiola 
lent his name to a 1960 book, Baseball is a Funny Game, which sold well 
upon release and helped establish Garagiola as a "personality." The book—largely 
ghostwritten—was a collection of humorous anecdotes surrounding his upbringing 
and his playing career, and showcased the folksy, humorous style that became 
his trademark as a broadcaster. Garagiola was also the author of It's Anybody's 
Ballgame (1980) and Just Play Ball (2007).[4] Garagiola turned to broadcasting 
following his retirement as a player, first calling Cardinals radio broadcasts 
on KMOX from 1955 to 1962. As an announcer, Garagiola was best known for 
his almost 30-year association with NBC television. He began doing national 
baseball broadcasts for the network in 1961 (teaming with Bob Wolff). Additionally, 
Garagiola called several World Series on NBC Radio in the 1960s, teaming 
with a number of announcers including By Saam and George Kell. After a 
stint doing New York Yankees games from 1965 to 1967, that saw him call 
Mickey Mantle's 500th home run, Garagiola returned to broadcasting NBC 
baseball, initially as the host of the pre-game show, The Baseball World 
of Joe Garagiola, and then as a play-by-play announcer beginning in 1974. 
Garagiola alternated play-by-play duties with Curt Gowdy on NBC until 1976, 
when he assumed the role full-time. He teamed with color commentator Tony 
Kubek from 1976 to 1982; in 1983, he shifted to color commentary as Vin 
Scully joined the network as lead play-by-play announcer. (Kubek joined 
Bob Costas to form NBC's #2 baseball announcing duo in this era.) Besides 
working on the Saturday Game of the Week for NBC, the team of Scully and 
Garagiola would call three All-Star Games (1983, 1985, and 1987), three 
National League Championship Series (1983, 1985, and 1987), and three World 
Series (1984, 1986, and 1988). After calling the 1988 World Series with 
Scully, Garagiola resigned from NBC Sports.[5] NBC was on the verge of 
losing the television rights to cover Major League Baseball to CBS, and 
Garagiola claimed that the network left him "twisting"[6] while he was 
trying to renegotiate his deal. Garagiola was replaced on the NBC telecasts 
by Tom Seaver. After leaving NBC Sports, Garagiola spent one season (1990) 
as a cable-television commentator for the California Angels. From 1998 
to 2012, he performed part-time color commentary duties for the Arizona 
Diamondbacks, where his son, Joe Garagiola Jr., served as general manager. 
Garagiola officially announced his retirement from broadcasting on February 
22, 2013. Besides calling baseball games for NBC, Garagiola served as a 
panelist on The Today Show from 1967 to 1973 and again from 1990 to 1992. 
He also occasionally guest-hosted The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson, 
including the only live appearances of any members of The Beatles on the 
program while still a group (John Lennon and Paul McCartney were the guests 
in May 1968). In the late 1960s and 1970s, Garagiola also hosted the game 
shows He Said, She Said; Joe Garagiola's Memory Game; Sale of the Century; 
and To Tell the Truth, as well as a short-lived '80s game, Strike It Rich. 
Garagiola was also a guest celebrity panelist on Match Game in the late 
1970s. He also hosted the St. Louis area professional wrestling show, titled 
Wrestling at the Chase, and was a regular host of the Orange Bowl Parade 
in Miami on New Year's Eve. Garagiola later gained a new form of fame as 
co-host of the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show for USA Network from 1994 
to 2002. From 1969 to 1970, Garagiola was the Saturday afternoon host of 
the NBC Radio Network program Monitor. (A link to a sample of his hosting 
is found below.) During the 1960s, he also contributed commentaries to 
Monitor for several years and had a daily five-minute morning drivetime 
sports commentary program on the network. In 1970, Garagiola appeared at 
a preliminary trial following former Cardinals outfielder Curt Flood's 
lawsuit against Major League Baseball, challenging the game's reserve clause. 
Testifying before Judge Irving Ben Cooper in New York, Garagiola defended 
the clause, a stance he later deemed a "terrible mistake".[7] In the 1976 
US presidential election, Garagiola enthusiastically supported the candidacy 
of President Gerald Ford. During the fall campaign, the Republican National 
Committee hired Garagiola to do a series of television ads with Ford; the 
ads consisted of Garagiola talking to Ford in a relaxed, informal setting. 
Derided by Ford's critics as "The Joe and Jerry Show", the ads in their 
opinion were considered to have negatively affected the Ford campaign. 
The two men became close friends. On election night in November 1976, Ford 
invited Garagiola to be one of his guests at the White House to watch the 
results on television. Ford lost the election to Jimmy Carter. Garagiola 
was an advocate against the use of chewing tobacco. He had picked up the 
habit during his playing days with the Cardinals, but quit cold turkey 
in the late-1950s. He annually visited major league teams during spring 
training, alongside players from his generation who have suffered from 
oral cancer related to the addiction.[8] Garagiola was the keynote luncheon 
speaker at the 2007 convention of the Society for American Baseball Research 
held in St. Louis. Garagiola was inducted into the Missouri Sports Hall 
of Fame in 1970. He was presented with a Peabody Award in 1973 for his 
NBC work. In 1991, he was honored by the Baseball Hall of Fame with the 
Ford C. Frick Award for outstanding broadcasting accomplishments. He was 
inducted into the National Sportscasters and Sportswriters Association 
Hall of Fame in 2004. He has also been given his own star on the St. Louis 
Walk of Fame.[9] The St. Louis Wrestling Hall of Fame inducted him in 2008 
for his Wrestling at the Chase broadcasts. In 2012, he was honored by the 
Catholic Community Foundation of the Diocese of Phoenix, receiving its 
inaugural Legacy Award at its 24th Annual Crozier Gala for his tireless 
help and generosity with the St. Peter's Mission School on the Gila River 
Reservation. (The American Sportscasters Association also honored him for 
his work with the St. Peter's Mission School with its Humanitarian Award 
in 1995.) On December 4, 2013, Garagiola was named as the 2014 recipient 
of the Buck O'Neil Lifetime Achievement Award, presented once every three 
years by the Baseball Hall of Fame for positive contributions to Major 
League Baseball. The Hall's official announcement specifically cited his 
advocacy against smokeless tobacco, as well as his role as a founder of 
the Baseball Assistance Team, a charity that provides grants to needy members 
of the professional baseball community.[10] As noted above, Garagiola's 
son, Joe Jr., went on to become the general manager for the Arizona Diamondbacks, 
and later senior vice president of baseball operations for Major League 
Baseball. His other son, Steve, is a broadcast journalist as well, serving 
as a reporter and anchor for WDIV-TV, the NBC affiliate in Detroit.[11] 
His daughter, Gina, has also worked in TV news, as a field reporter for 
Arizona station KTVK, and is now a freelance writer. Garagiola Sr. had 
eight grandchildren. Garagiola died on March 23, 2016, at the age of 90.[12] 
The Diamondbacks will wear a patch in his memory on their right sleeve 
for the 2016 season, a black circle with "JOE" written in white in the 
center, with a catchers' mask replacing the O.[13] Garagiola's funeral 
services were held on April 13, at St. Ambrose Catholic Church, in St. 
Louis, Missouri, the same church where he was baptized.[14] Upon his death, 
