Joe Vila (September 16, 1866 – April 27, 1934) was an American sportswriter 
and editor. He was born Joseph Spencer Vila in Boston, Massachusetts.[1] 
Vila has been regarded as one of the most influential sportswriters during 
the first third of the 20th century, while setting fundamental changes 
in sports coverage during the decades to come. Vila attended Boston Latin 
School, where he learned to play baseball and football, and entered Harvard 
College from 1886 to 1887 and the Harvard Law School for a brief time. 
During his stay at Harvard, he instantly became a member of the football 
team, and in the following spring joined the baseball team. His individual 
statistics in both sports assured him a regular position on the varsity 
teams the following year, but he left college to go into business.[2] After 
leaving Harvard, Vila went to work on the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad as 
a brakeman and baggage smasher.[2] He started his journalism career in 
his native Boston through a series of newspapers before joining the most 
sports-oriented daily paper in town, the Boston Herald.[1] In 1889 Vila 
moved to New York City, where he collaborated for the New York Morning 
Sun. With writing, in its early years, he introduced a more contemporary 
play-by-play review for the 1889 Harvard-Princeton match.[1] Four years 
later, Vila was hired by the New York Evening Sun, one of the city’s most 
prestigious daily newspapers. In addition, he began to covering boxing 
in 1898. That allowed him to become the first sportswriter to use a typewriter 
at ringside, while dictating to a typist round by round the fight between 
James J. Corbett and Tom Sharkey[2] and sending the resulting copy to a 
Western Union operator. As a result, other reporters who customarily wrote 
in longhand rapidly began to switch to typewriters.[1] From 1900 through 
1910, Vila covered mostly horse racing and baseball, but later devoted 
strictly to baseball. By then he was considered a powerful influence behind 
the scenes in professional sports. In 1902, Vila was instrumental in the 
Andrew Freedman's decision to sell the New York Giants National League 
club to John T. Brush.[2] Besides this, he helped to establish a New York 
baseball team in the newborn American League, when he introduced Jacob 
Ruppert, by then owner of the New York Yankees, to Joe McCarthy,[2] who 
would become the Yankees all-time leader managerial wins with 1,460 from 
1931 to 1946, including seven World Series titles spanning 1932–1943.[3] 
Vila became sports editor of The Sun in 1914. In addition to baseball, 
boxing, football and horse racing, he also covered yachting and rowing.[2] 
Being sports editor also made him a columnist, while his daily column, 
entitled Setting the Pace, was to appear six days a week for over 20 years. 
His column was, unlike those of many of his contemporaries, very factual 
and straightforward, being often historic and less opinionated.[1] Vila 
collapsed at his desk in 1934, while covering the opening of the horse 
race spring meeting at Jamaica Race Course. He was taken to a hospital 
and then to his home in Brooklyn, where he died later of a heart failure 
at the age of 67.[2] Following his death, his legacy most definitely continued, 
inspiring both those already well integrated in The Sun and those young 
journalists seriously interested in covering the sport on a regular basis. 
Joe Vila was one of 12 writers who were honored by the Baseball Hall of 
