Joseph Louis Barrow (May 13, 1914 – April 12, 1981), best known as Joe 
Louis and nicknamed the "Brown Bomber", was an American professional boxer 
who competed from 1934 to 1951. He reigned as the world heavyweight champion 
from 1937 to 1949, and is considered to be one of the greatest heavyweights 
of all time. Louis' championship reign lasted 140 consecutive months, during 
which he participated in 26 championship fights; a 27th fight, against 
Ezzard Charles in 1950, was a challenge for Charles' heavyweight title 
and so is not included in Louis' reign. Louis was victorious in 25 title 
defenses, a world record second only to Julio César Chávez with 27. In 
2005, Louis was ranked as the best heavyweight of all time by the International 
Boxing Research Organization,[1] and was ranked number one on The Ring 
magazine's list of the "100 greatest punchers of all time."[2] Louis' cultural 
impact was felt well outside the ring. He is widely regarded as the first 
African American to achieve the status of a nationwide hero within the 
United States, and was also a focal point of anti-Nazi sentiment leading 
up to and during World War II.[3] He was instrumental in integrating the 
game of golf, breaking the sport's color barrier in America by appearing 
under a sponsor's exemption in a PGA event in 1952.[4][5][6] Detroit's 
Joe Louis Arena, home of the Detroit Red Wings of the National Hockey League, 
and the Forest Preserve District of Cook County's Joe Louis "The Champ" 
Golf Course, situated south of Chicago in Riverdale, Illinois, are named 
in his honor. Born in rural Chambers County, Alabama (in a ramshackle dwelling 
on Bell Chapel Road, located about a mile off state route 50 and roughly 
six miles (10 km) north of Lafayette), Louis was the son of Munroe Barrow 
and Lillie (Reese) Barrow, the seventh of eight children.[7][8] He weighed 
11 pounds (5 kg) at birth,[7] and both Louis's parents were the children 
of former slaves, alternating between sharecropping and rental farming.[9] 
Munroe was predominantly African American with some white ancestry, while 
Lillie was half Cherokee.[9] Louis spent twelve years growing up in rural 
Alabama, where little is known of his childhood. He suffered from a speech 
impediment and spoke very little until about the age of six.[10] Munroe 
Barrow was committed to a mental institution in 1916 and, as a result, 
Joe knew very little of his biological father.[11] Around 1920, Louis's 
mother married Pat Brooks, a local construction contractor, having received 
word that Munroe Barrow had died while institutionalized (in reality, Munroe 
Barrow lived until 1938, unaware of his son's fame).[12] In 1926, shaken 
by a gang of white men in the Ku Klux Klan, Louis's family moved to Detroit, 
Michigan, forming part of the post-World War I Great Migration.[13][14] 
Joe's brother worked for Ford Motor Company (where Joe would himself work 
for a time at the River Rouge Plant[15]) and the family settled into a 
home at 2700 Catherine (now Madison) Street in Detroit's Black Bottom neighborhood.[16] 
Louis attended Bronson Vocational School for a time to learn cabinet-making[15] 
and his mother attempted to get him interested in playing the violin.[17] 
The Great Depression hit the Barrow family hard, but as an alternative 
to gang activity, Joe began to spend time at a local youth recreation center 
at 637 Brewster Street in Detroit. Legend has it that he tried to hide 
his pugilistic ambitions from his mother by carrying his boxing gloves 
inside his violin case. Louis made his debut in early 1932 at age 17. Legend 
has it that before the fight, the barely-literate Louis wrote his name 
so large that there was no room for his last name, and thus became known 
as "Joe Louis" for the remainder of his boxing career. More likely, Louis 
simply omitted his last name to keep his boxing pursuits a secret from 
his mother. After this debut – a loss to future Olympian Johnny Miller 
– Louis compiled numerous amateur victories, eventually winning the club 
championship of his Brewster Street recreation centre, the home of many 
aspiring Golden Gloves fighters. In 1933, Louis won the Detroit-area Golden 
Gloves Novice Division championship against Joe Biskey for the light heavyweight 
classification. He later lost in the Chicago Golden Gloves Tournament of 
Champions. The next year, competing in the Golden Gloves' Open Division, 
he won the light heavyweight classification, this time also winning the 
Chicago Tournament of Champions. However, a hand injury forced Louis to 
miss the New York/Chicago Champions' cross-town bout for the ultimate Golden 
Gloves championship. In April 1934, he followed up his Chicago performance 
by winning the United States Amateur Champion National AAU tournament in 
St. Louis, Missouri. By the end of his amateur career, Louis's record was 
50-4, with 43 knockouts. Joe Louis had 70 professional fights with only 
three losses. He tallied 52 knock outs and held the championship from 1937 
to 1949, the longest span of any heavyweight titleholder. After returning 
from retirement, Louis failed to regain the championship in 1950, and his 
career ended after he was knocked out by Rocky Marciano in 1951. The man 
who had been called the Brown Bomber was finished.[18] Louis's amateur 
performances attracted the interest of professional promoters, and he was 
soon represented by a black Detroit-area bookmaker named John Roxborough. 
As Louis explained in his autobiography, Roxborough convinced the young 
fighter that white managers would have no real interest in seeing a black 
boxer work his way up to title contention: [Roxborough] told me about the 
fate of most black fighters, ones with white managers, who wound up burned-out 
and broke before they reached their prime. The white managers were not 
interested in the men they were handling but in the money they could make 
from them. They didn't take the proper time to see that their fighters 
had a proper training, that they lived comfortably, or ate well, or had 
some pocket change. Mr. Roxborough was talking about Black Power before 
it became popular. Roxborough knew a Chicago area boxing promoter named 
Julian Black who already had a stable of mediocre boxers against which 
Louis could hone his craft, this time in the heavyweight division. After 
becoming part of the management team, Black hired fellow Chicago native 
Jack "Chappy" Blackburn as Louis's trainer. Louis' initial professional 
fights were all located in the Chicago area, his professional debut coming 
on July 4, 1934 against Jack Kracken in the Bacon Casino on Chicago's south 
side. Louis earned $59 for knocking out Kracken in the first round. Louis 
won all twelve of his professional fights that year, ten by way of knockout. 
In September 1934, while promoting a Detroit-area "coming home" bout for 
Louis against Canadian Alex Borchuk, Roxborough was pressured by members 
of the Michigan State Boxing Commission to have Louis sign with white management. 
Roxborough refused and continued advancing Louis's career with bouts against 
heavyweight contenders Art Sykes and Stanley Poreda. When training for 
a fight against Lee Ramage, Louis noticed a young female secretary for 
the black newspaper at the gym. After Ramage was defeated, the secretary, 
Marva Trotter, was invited to the celebration party at Chicago's Grand 
Hotel. Trotter later became Louis's first wife in 1935. During this time, 
Louis also met Truman Gibson, the man who would become his personal lawyer. 
As a young associate at a law firm hired by Julian Black, Gibson was charged 
with personally entertaining Louis during the pendency of business deals. 
Although Louis' management was finding him bouts against legitimate heavyweight 
contenders, no path to the title was forthcoming. While professional boxing 
was not officially segregated, many white Americans had become wary of 
the prospect of another black champion in the wake of Jack Johnson's highly 
unpopular (among whites) "reign" atop the heavyweight division.[19] A glass 
ceiling kept black boxers out of championship bouts, and there were few 
heavyweight black contenders at the time, though there were African Americans 
who fought for titles in other weight divisions, and a few notable black 
champions such as Tiger Flowers. During an era of severe anti-black repression, 
Jack Johnson's unrepentant masculinity and marriage to a white woman engendered 
an enormous backlash that greatly limited opportunities of black fighters 
in the heavyweight division; Louis and his handlers would counter the legacy 
of Johnson by emphasizing the Brown Bomber's modesty and sportsmanship.[19][20] 
Biographer Gerald Astor stated that "Joe Louis' early boxing career was 
stalked by the specter of Jack Johnson".[19][21] If Louis were to rise 
to national prominence among such cultural attitudes, a change in management 
would be necessary. In 1935, boxing promoter Mike Jacobs sought out Louis' 
handlers. After Louis' narrow defeat of Natie Brown on March 29, 1935, 
Jacobs and the Louis team met at the Frog Club, a black nightclub, and 
negotiated a three-year exclusive boxing promotion deal.[22] The contract, 
however, did not keep Roxborough and Black from attempting to cash in as 
Louis' managers; when Louis turned 21 on May 13, 1935, Roxborough and Black 
each signed Louis to an onerous long-term contract that collectively dedicated 
half of Louis' future income to the pair.[23] Black and Roxborough continued 
to carefully and deliberately shape Louis' media image. Mindful of the 
tremendous public backlash Johnson had suffered for his unapologetic attitude 
and flamboyant lifestyle, they drafted "Seven Commandments" for Louis' 
personal conduct. These included: As a result, Louis was generally portrayed 
in the white media as a modest, clean-living person, which facilitated 
his burgeoning celebrity status.[26] With the backing of major promotion, 
Louis fought thirteen times in 1935. The bout that helped put him in the 
media spotlight occurred on June 25, when Louis knocked out 6'6", 265-pound 
former World Heavyweight Champion Primo Carnera in six rounds. Foreshadowing 
the Louis-Schmeling rivalry to come, the Carnera bout featured a political 
dimension. Louis' victory over Carnera, who symbolized Benito Mussolini's 
regime in the popular eye, was seen as a victory for the international 
community, particularly among African Americans, who were sympathetic to 
Ethiopia, which was attempting to maintain its independence by fending 
off an invasion by fascist Italy.[27][28][29] America's white press began 
promoting Louis' image in the context of the era's racism; nicknames they 
created included the "Mahogany Mauler", "Chocolate Chopper", "Coffee-Colored 
KO King", "Safari Sandman", and one that stuck: "The Brown Bomber".[29][30] 
Helping the white press to overcome its reluctance to feature a black contender 
was the fact that in the mid-1930s boxing desperately needed a marketable 
hero. Since the retirement of Jack Dempsey in 1929, the sport had devolved 
into a sordid mixture of poor athletes, gambling, fixed fights, thrown 
matches, and control of the sport by organized crime.[19] New York Times 
Columnist Edward Van Ness wrote, "Louis...is a boon to boxing. Just as 
Dempsey led the sport out of the doldrums...so is Louis leading the boxing 
game out of a slump."[19] Likewise, biographer Bill Libby asserted that 
"The sports world was hungry for a great champion when Louis arrived in 
New York in 1935."[19][31] While the mainstream press was beginning to 
embrace Louis, many still opposed the prospect of another black Heavyweight 
Champion. In September 1935, on the eve of Louis' fight with the former 
title holder Max Baer, Washington Post sportswriter Shirley Povich wrote 
about some Americans' hopes for the white contender; "They say Baer will 
surpass himself in the knowledge that he is the lone white hope for the 
defense of Nordic superiority in the prize ring."[19] However, the hopes 
of white suprematists would soon be dashed. Although Baer had been knocked 
down only once before in his professional career (by Frankie Campbell), 
Louis dominated the former champion, knocking him out in fourth round. 
Unknowingly, Baer suffered from a unique disadvantage in the fight; earlier 
that evening, Louis had married Marva Trotter at a friend's apartment and 
was eager to end the fight in order to consummate the relationship.[32] 
Later that year, Louis also knocked out Paolino Uzcudun, who had never 
been knocked down before. By this time, Louis was ranked as the No. 1 contender 
in the heavyweight division[33] and had won the Associated Press' "Athlete 
of the Year" award for 1935.[29] What was considered to be a final tune-up 
bout before an eventual title shot was scheduled for June 1936 against 
former World Heavyweight Champion Max Schmeling. Although a former champion, 
Schmeling was not considered a threat to Louis, then with an undefeated 
professional record of 27-0.[34] Schmeling had won his title on a technicality 
when Jack Sharkey was disqualified after giving Schmeling a low blow in 
1930. Schmeling was also 30 years old at the time of the Louis bout and 
allegedly past his prime.[34] Louis' training retreat was located at Lakewood, 
New Jersey, where Louis was first able to practice the game of golf, which 
later became a lifelong passion.[35] Noted entertainer Ed Sullivan had 
initially sparked Louis' interest in the sport by giving an instructional 
book to Joe's wife, Marva.[5] Louis spent significant time on the golf 
course rather than training for the Schmeling match.[23][36] Conversely, 
Schmeling prepared intently for the bout. Schmeling had thoroughly studied 
Louis's style and believed he had found a weakness.[37] By exploiting Louis's 
habit of dropping his left hand low after a jab, Schmeling handed Louis 
his first professional loss by knocking him out in Round 12 at Yankee Stadium 
on June 19, 1936.[38] After defeating Louis, Schmeling expected a title 
shot against James J. Braddock, who had unexpectedly defeated Max Baer 
for the Heavyweight title the previous June. Madison Square Garden (MSG) 
had a contract with Braddock for the title defense and also sought a Braddock-Schmeling 
title bout. But Jacobs and Braddock's manager Joe Gould had been planning 
a Braddock-Louis matchup for months.[39] Schmeling's victory gave Gould 
tremendous leverage, however; if he were to offer Schmeling the title chance 
instead of Louis, there was a very real possibility that Nazi authorities 
would never allow Louis a shot at the title.[39] Gould's demands were therefore 
onerous: Jacobs would have to pay 10% of all future boxing promotion profits 
(including any future profits from Louis's future bouts) for ten years.[40] 
Braddock and Gould would eventually receive more than $150,000 from this 
arrangement.[40] Well before the actual fight, Jacobs and Gould publicly 
announced that their fighters would face for the Heavyweight title on June 
22, 1937.[40] Figuring that the New York State Athletic Commission would 
not sanction the fight in deference to MSG and Schmeling, Jacobs scheduled 
the fight for Chicago.[40] Each of the parties involved worked to facilitate 
the controversial Braddock-Louis matchup. Louis did his part by knocking 
out former champion Jack Sharkey on August 18, 1936. Meanwhile, Gould trumped 
up anti-Nazi sentiment against Schmeling,[41] and Jacobs defended a lawsuit 
by MSG to halt the Braddock-Louis fight. A federal court in Newark, New 
Jersey eventually ruled that Braddock's contractual obligation to stage 
his title defense at MSG was unenforceable for lack of mutual consideration.[41] 
The stage was set for Louis's title shot. On the night of the fight, June 
22, 1937, Braddock was able to knock Louis down in round one, but afterward 
could accomplish little. After inflicting constant punishment, Louis defeated 
Braddock in round eight, knocking him out cold with a strong right hand 
that bust James' teeth through his gum shield and lip and paralyzed him 
to the ground for a few minutes. It was the first and only time that Braddock 
was knocked out (the one other stoppage of Braddock's career was a TKO 
on a cut). Louis's ascent to the World Heavyweight Championship was complete. 
Louis's victory was a seminal moment in African American history. Thousands 
of African Americans stayed up all night across the country in celebration.[3] 
Noted author and member of the Harlem Renaissance Langston Hughes described 
Louis's effect in these terms: Each time Joe Louis won a fight in those 
depression years, even before he became champion, thousands of black Americans 
on relief or W.P.A., and poor, would throng out into the streets all across 
the land to march and cheer and yell and cry because of Joe's one-man triumphs. 
No one else in the United States has ever had such an effect on Negro emotions—or 
on mine. I marched and cheered and yelled and cried, too.[42] Despite now 
being Heavyweight Champion, Louis was haunted by the earlier defeat to 
Schmeling. Shortly after winning the title, he was quoted as saying, "I 
don't want to be called champ until I whip Max Schmeling."[34] Louis's 
manager Mike Jacobs attempted to arrange a rematch with Schmeling in 1937, 
but negotiations broke down when Schmeling demanded 30% of the gate.[43] 
When Schmeling instead attempted to arrange for a fight against British 
Empire Champion Tommy Farr, known as the "Tonypandy Terror",—ostensibly 
for a world championship to rival the claims of American boxing authorities—Jacobs 
outmaneuvered him, offering Farr a guaranteed $60,000 to fight Louis instead. 
The offer was too lucrative for Farr to turn down.[44] On August 30, 1937, 
after a postponement of four days due to rain, Louis and Farr finally touched 
gloves at New York's Yankee Stadium before a crowd of approximately 32,000.[45] 
Louis fought one of the hardest battles of his life. The bout was closely 
contested and went the entire 15 rounds, with Louis being unable to knock 
Farr down. Referee Arthur Donovan was even seen shaking Farr's hand after 
the bout, in apparent congratulation.[46] Nevertheless, after the score 
was announced, Louis had won a controversial unanimous decision.[46][47] 
Time described the scene thus: "After collecting the judges' votes, referee 
Arthur Donovan announced that Louis had won the fight on points. The crowd 
of 50,000...amazed that Farr had not been knocked out or even knocked down, 
booed the decision. It seems the crowd believed that referee Arthur Donovan, 
Sr. had raised Farr's glove in victory. Seven years later, in his published 
account of the fight, Donovan spoke of the "mistake" that may have led 
to this confusion. He wrote: As Tommy walked back to his corner after shaking 
Louis' hand, I followed him and seized his glove. "Tommy, a wonderful perform—" 
I began... Then I dropped his hand like a red-hot coal! He had started 
to raise his arm. He thought I had given him the fight and the world championship! 
I literally ran away, shaking my head and shouting. "No! No! No!" realising 
how I had raised his hopes for a few seconds only to dash them to the ground... 
That's the last time my emotions will get the better of me in a prize fight! 
There was much booing at the announced result, but, as I say it, it was 
all emotional. I gave Tommy two rounds and one even—and both his winning 
rounds were close.[48] Speaking over the radio after the fight, Louis admitted 
that he had been hurt twice.[49] In preparation for the inevitable rematch 
with Schmeling, Louis tuned up with bouts against Nathan Mann and Harry 
Thomas. The rematch between Louis and Schmeling would become one of the 
most famous boxing matches of all time and is remembered as one of the 
major sports events of the 20th century.[34] Following his defeat of Louis 
in 1936, Schmeling became a national hero in Germany. Schmeling's victory 
over an African American was touted by Nazi officials as proof of their 
doctrine of Aryan superiority. When the rematch was scheduled, Louis retreated 
to his boxing camp in New Jersey and trained incessantly for the fight. 
A few weeks before the bout, Louis visited the White House, where President 
Franklin D. Roosevelt told him, "Joe, we need muscles like yours to beat 
Germany."[34] Louis later admitted: "I knew I had to get Schmeling good. 
I had my own personal reasons and the whole damned country was depending 
on me."[50] When Schmeling arrived in New York City in June 1938 for the 
rematch, he was accompanied by a Nazi party publicist who issued statements 
that a black man could not defeat Schmeling and that when Schmeling won, 
his prize money would be used to build tanks in Germany. Schmeling's hotel 
was picketed by anti-Nazi protesters in the days before the fight.[34] 
On the night of June 22, 1938, Louis and Schmeling met for the second time 
in the boxing ring. The fight was held in Yankee Stadium before a crowd 
of 70,043. It was broadcast by radio to millions of listeners throughout 
the world, with radio announcers reporting on the fight in English, German, 
Spanish, and Portuguese. Before the bout, Schmeling weighed in at 193 pounds; 
Louis weighed in at 198¾ pounds.[34] The fight lasted two minutes and four 
seconds.[51] Louis battered Schmeling with a series of swift attacks, forcing 
Schmeling against the ropes and giving him a paralyzing body blow (Schmeling 
later claimed it was an illegal kidney punch). Schmeling was knocked down 
three times and only managed to throw two punches in the entire bout. On 
the third knockdown, Schmeling's trainer threw in the towel and referee 
Arthur Donovan stopped the fight.[34] In the 29 months from January 1939 
through May 1941, Louis defended his title thirteen times, a frequency 
unmatched by any Heavyweight Champion since the end of the bare-knuckle 
era. The pace of his title defenses, combined with his convincing wins, 
earned Louis' opponents from this era the collective nickname "Bum of the 
Month Club".[24] Notables of this lambasted pantheon include: Despite its 
derogatory nickname, most of the group were top-ten heavyweights. Of the 
twelve fighters Louis faced during this period, five were rated by The 
Ring as top-ten heavyweights in the year they fought Louis: Galento (overall 
#2 heavyweight in 1939), Bob Pastor (#3, 1939), Godoy (#3, 1940), Simon 
(#6, 1941) and Baer (#8, 1941); four others (Musto, Dorazio, Burman and 
Johnny Paychek) were ranked in the top ten in a different year.[54] Louis' 
string of lightly regarded competition ended with his bout against Billy 
Conn, the Light Heavyweight Champion and a highly regarded contender. The 
fighters met on June 18, 1941, in front of a crowd of 54,487 fans at the 
Polo Grounds in New York City.[55] The fight turned out to be one of the 
greatest heavyweight boxing fights of all time. Conn would not gain weight 
for the challenge against Louis, saying instead that he would rely on a 
"hit and run" strategy. Louis' famous response: "He can run, but he can't 
hide."[15][56] However, Louis had clearly underestimated Conn's threat. 
In his autobiography, Joe Louis said, "I made a mistake going into that 
fight. I knew Conn was kinda small and I didn't want them to say in the 
papers that I beat up on some little guy so the day before the fight I 
did a little roadwork to break a sweat and drank as little water as possible 
so I could weigh in under 200 pounds. Chappie was as mad as hell. But Conn 
was a clever fighter, he was like a mosquito, he'd sting and move."[55] 
Conn had the better of the fight through twelve rounds, although Louis 
was able to stun Conn with a left hook in the fifth, cutting his eye and 
nose. By the eighth round, Louis began suffering from dehydration. By the 
twelfth round, Louis was exhausted, with Conn ahead on two of three boxing 
scorecards. But against the advice of his corner, Conn continued to closely 
engage Louis in the later stages of the fight. Louis made the most of the 
opportunity, knocking Conn out with two seconds left in the thirteenth 
round.[55] The contest created an instant rivalry that Louis's career had 
lacked since the Schmeling era and a rematch with Conn was planned for 
late 1942. The rematch had to be abruptly canceled, however, after Conn 
broke his hand in a much-publicized fight with his father-in-law, major 
league ballplayer "Greenfield" Jimmy Smith.[57] By the time Conn was ready 
for the rematch, the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor had taken place, detouring 
Louis's heavyweight career. Louis fought a charity bout for the Navy Relief 
Society against his former opponent Buddy Baer on January 9, 1942, which 
generated $47,000 for the fund.[15] The next day, he volunteered to enlist 
as a private in the United States Army at Camp Upton, Long Island.[58][59] 
Newsreel cameras recorded his induction, including a staged scene in which 
a soldier-clerk asked, "What's your occupation?" and Louis replied, "Fighting 
and let us at them Japs."[60] Another military charity bout on March 27, 
1942, (against another former opponent, Abe Simon) netted $36,146.[15] 
Before the fight, Louis had spoken at a Relief Fund dinner, saying of the 
war effort: "We'll win, 'cause we're on God's side."[19] The media widely 
reported the comment, instigating a surge of popularity for Louis. Slowly, 
the press began to eliminate its stereotypical racial references when covering 
Louis and instead treated him as an unqualified sports hero.[19] Despite 
the public relations boon, Louis's charitable fights proved financially 
costly. Although he saw none of the roughly $90,000 raised by these and 
other charitable fights, the IRS later credited these amounts as taxable 
income paid to Louis.[61] After the war, the IRS pursued the issue. For 
basic training, Louis was assigned to a segregated cavalry unit based in 
Fort Riley, Kansas. The assignment was at the suggestion of his friend 
and lawyer Truman Gibson, who knew of Louis's love for horsemanship.[58] 
Gibson had previously become a civilian advisor to the War Department, 
in charge of investigating claims of harassment against black soldiers. 
Accordingly, Louis used this personal connection to help the cause of various 
black soldiers with whom he came into contact. In one noted episode, Louis 
contacted Gibson in order to facilitate the Officer Candidate School (OCS) 
applications of a group of black recruits at Fort Riley, which had been 
inexplicably delayed for several months.[62][63] Among the OCS applications 
Louis facilitated was that of a young Jackie Robinson, later to break the 
baseball color barrier.[62][64] The episode spawned a personal friendship 
between the two men.[65] Realizing Louis's potential for elevating esprit 
de corps among the troops, the Army placed him in its Special Services 
Division rather than deploying him into combat.[59] Louis went on a celebrity 
tour with other notables including fellow boxer Sugar Ray Robinson.[60] 
He traveled more than 35,000 km (21,000 miles) and staged 96 boxing exhibitions 
before two million soldiers.[15] In England during 1944, he was reported 
to have enlisted as a player for Liverpool Football Club as a publicity 
stunt.[66] In addition to his travels, Louis was the focus of a media recruitment 
campaign encouraging African-American men to enlist in the Armed Services, 
despite the military's racial segregation. When he was asked about his 
decision to enter the racially segregated U.S. Army, his explanation was 
simple: "Lots of things wrong with America, but Hitler ain't going to fix 
them." In 1943, Louis made an appearance in the wartime Hollywood musical 
This Is the Army, directed by Michael Curtiz. He appears as himself in 
a musical number, "The Well-Dressed Man in Harlem", which emphasizes the 
importance of African-American soldiers and promotes their enlistment. 
Louis's celebrity power was not, however, merely directed toward African 
Americans. In a famous wartime recruitment slogan, he echoed his prior 
comments of 1942: "We'll win, because we're on God's side." The publicity 
of the campaign made Louis widely popular stateside, even outside the world 
of sports.[3] Never before had white Americans embraced a black man as 
their representative to the world.[3] Although Louis never saw combat, 
his military service saw challenges of its own. During his travels, he 
often experienced blatant racism. On one occasion, a military policeman 
(MP) ordered Louis and Ray Robinson to move their seats to a bench in the 
rear of an Alabama Army camp bus depot. "We ain't moving", said Louis. 
The MP tried to arrest them, but Louis forcefully argued the pair out of 
the situation.[67] In another incident, he allegedly had to resort to bribery 
to persuade a commanding officer to drop charges against Jackie Robinson 
for punching a captain who had called Robinson a "nigger."[63] Louis was 
eventually promoted to the rank of technical sergeant on April 9, 1945. 
On September 23 of the same year, he was awarded the Legion of Merit (a 
military decoration rarely awarded to enlisted soldiers) for "incalculable 
contribution to the general morale."[59][68] Receipt of the honor qualified 
him for immediate release from military service on October 1, 1945.[15][69] 
Louis emerged from his wartime service significantly in debt. In addition 
to his looming tax bill—which had not been finally determined at the time, 
but was estimated at greater than $100,000[60]—Jacobs claimed that Louis 
owed him $250,000.[70] Despite the financial pressure on Louis to resume 
boxing, his long-awaited rematch against Billy Conn had to be postponed 
to the summer of 1946, when weather conditions could accommodate a large 
outdoor audience. On June 19, a disappointing 40,000 saw the rematch at 
Yankee Stadium,[60] in which Louis was not seriously tested. Conn, whose 
skills had deteriorated during the long layoff, largely avoided contact 
until being dispatched by knockout in the eighth round. Although the attendance 
did not meet expectations, the fight was still the most profitable of Louis's 
career to date. His share of the purse was $600,000, of which Louis' managers 
got $140,000, his ex-wife $66,000 and the state of New York $30,000.[60] 
After trouble finding another suitable opponent, on December 5, 1947, Louis 
met Jersey Joe Walcott, a 33-year-old veteran with a 44–11–2 record. Walcott 
entered the fight as a 10-to-1 underdog. Nevertheless, Walcott knocked 
down Louis twice in the first four rounds. Most observers in Madison Square 
Garden felt Walcott dominated the 15-round fight. When Louis was declared 
the winner in a split decision, the crowd booed.[60] Louis was under no 
delusion about the state of his boxing skills, yet he was too embarrassed 
to quit after the Walcott fight. Determined to win and retire with his 
title intact, Louis signed on for a rematch. On June 25, 1948, about 42,000 
people came to Yankee Stadium to see the aging champion, who weighed 213½, 
the heaviest of his career to date. Walcott knocked Louis down in the third 
round, but Louis survived to knock out Walcott in the eleventh.[60] Louis 
would not defend his title again before announcing his retirement from 
boxing on March 1, 1949.[71] In his bouts with Conn and Walcott, it had 
become apparent that Louis was no longer the fighter he once had been. 
As he had done earlier in his career, however, Louis would continue to 
appear in numerous exhibition matches worldwide.[15][71] At the time of 
Louis's initial retirement, the IRS was still completing its investigation 
of his prior tax returns, which had always been handled by Mike Jacobs's 
personal accountant.[72] In May 1950, the IRS finished a full audit of 
Louis's past returns and announced that, with interest and penalties, he 
owed the government more than $500,000.[60] Louis had no choice but to 
return to the ring. After asking Gibson to take over his personal finances 
and switching his management from Jacobs and Roxborough to Marshall Miles,[51][73] 
the Louis camp negotiated a deal with the IRS under which Louis would come 
out of retirement, with all Louis's net proceeds going to the IRS. A match 
with Ezzard Charles—who had acquired the vacant Heavyweight title in June 
1949 by outpointing Walcott—was set for September 27, 1950. By then, Louis 
was 36 years old and had been away from competitive boxing for two years. 
Weighing in at 218, Louis was still strong, but his reflexes were gone. 
Charles repeatedly beat him to the punch. By the end of the fight, Louis 
was cut above both eyes, one of which was shut tight by swelling.[51] He 
knew he had lost even before Charles was declared the winner. The result 
was not the only disappointing aspect of the fight for Louis; only 22,357 
spectators paid to witness the event at Yankee Stadium and his share of 
the purse was a mere $100,458.[51] Louis had to continue fighting. After 
facing several club-level opponents, the International Boxing Club guaranteed 
Louis $300,000 to face undefeated heavyweight contender Rocky Marciano 
on October 26, 1951.[60] Despite his being a 6-to-5 favorite, few boxing 
insiders believed Louis had a chance.[74] Marciano himself was reluctant 
to participate in the bout, but was understanding of Louis's position: 
"This is the last guy on earth I want to fight."[75] It was feared, particularly 
among those who had witnessed Marciano's punching power first hand, that 
Louis's unwillingness to quit would result in serious injury. Fighting 
back tears, Ferdie Pacheco said in the SportsCentury documentary about 
his bout with Marciano, "He [Louis] wasn't just going to lose. He was going 
to take a vicious, savage beating. Before the eyes of the nation, Joe Louis, 
an American hero if ever there was one, was going to get beaten up."[76] 
Louis was dropped in the eighth round by a Marciano left and knocked through 
the ropes and out of the ring less than thirty seconds later. In the dressing 
room after the fight, Louis's Army touring companion, Sugar Ray Robinson, 
wept. Marciano also attempted to console Louis, saying, "I'm sorry, Joe."[60] 
"What's the use of crying?" Louis said. "The better man won. I guess everything 
happens for the best."[60] After facing Marciano, with the prospect of 
another significant payday all but gone, Louis retired for good from professional 
boxing. He would, as before, continue to tour on the exhibition circuit, 
with his last contest taking place on December 16, 1951, in Taipei, Taiwan, 
against Corporal Buford J. deCordova.[15][71] Despite Louis's lucrative 
purses over the years, most of the proceeds went to his handlers. Of the 
over $4.6 million earned during his boxing career, Louis himself received 
only about $800,000.[15] Louis was nevertheless extremely generous to his 
family, paying for homes, cars and education for his parents and siblings,[77] 
often with money fronted by Jacobs.[78] He invested in a number of businesses, 
all of which eventually failed,[77] including the Joe Louis Restaurant, 
the Joe Louis Insurance Company, a softball team called the Brown Bombers, 
Joe Louis Milk Company, Joe Louis pomade (hair product), Joe Louis Punch 
(a drink), the Louis-Rower P.R. firm, a horse farm and the Rhumboogie Café 
in Chicago.[79] He gave liberally to the government as well, paying back 
the city of Detroit for any welfare money his family had received.[77] 
A combination of this largesse and government intervention eventually put 
Louis in severe financial straits. His entrusting of his finances to former 
manager Mike Jacobs haunted him. After the $500,000 IRS tax bill was assessed, 
with interest accumulating every year, the need for cash precipitated Louis's 
post-retirement comeback.[60][80] Even though his comeback earned him significant 
purses, the incremental tax rate in place at the time (90%) meant that 
these boxing proceeds did not even keep pace with interest on Louis's tax 
debt. As a result, by the end of the 1950s, he owed over $1 million in 
taxes and interest.[80] In 1953, when Louis's mother died, the IRS appropriated 
the $667 she had willed to Louis.[60] To bring in money, Louis engaged 
in numerous activities outside the ring. He appeared on various quiz shows,[80] 
and an old Army buddy, Ash Resnick, gave Louis a job greeting tourists 
to the Caesars Palace hotel in Las Vegas, where Resnick was an executive.[80] 
For income, Louis even became a professional wrestler. He made his professional 
wrestling debut on March 16, 1956 in Washington, D.C., defeating Cowboy 
Rocky Lee. After defeating Lee in a few matches, Louis discovered he had 
a heart ailment and retired from wrestling competition. However, he continued 
as a wrestling referee until 1972.[60][81] Louis remained a popular celebrity 
in his twilight years. His friends included former rival Max Schmeling—who 
provided Louis with financial assistance during his retirement[82]—and 
mobster Frank Lucas, who, disgusted with the government's treatment of 
Louis, once paid off a $50,000 tax lien held against him.[83] These payments, 
along with an eventual agreement in the early 1960s by the IRS to limit 
its collections to an amount based on Louis's current income,[60] allowed 
Louis to live comfortably toward the end of his life.[77] After the Louis-Schmeling 
fight, Jack Dempsey expressed the opinion that he was glad he never had 
to face Joe Louis in the ring. When Louis fell on hard financial times, 
Dempsey served as honorary chairman of a fund to assist Louis.[84] One 
of Louis's other passions was the game of golf, in which he also played 
a historic role. He was a long-time devotee of the sport since being introduced 
to the game before the first Schmeling fight in 1936. In 1952, Louis was 
invited to play as an amateur in the San Diego Open on a sponsor's exemption, 
becoming the first African American to play a PGA Tour event.[5][6] Initially, 
the PGA of America was reluctant to allow Louis to enter the event, having 
a bylaw at the time limiting PGA membership to Caucasians.[4] However, 
Louis's celebrity status eventually pushed the PGA toward removing the 
bylaw, but the "Caucasian only" clause in the PGA of America's constitution 
was not amended until November 1961.[85][86] It paved the way for the first 
generation of African-American professional golfers such as Calvin Peete.[4] 
Louis himself financially supported the careers of several other early 
black professional golfers, such as Bill Spiller, Ted Rhodes, Howard Wheeler, 
James Black, Clyde Martin and Charlie Sifford.[5] He was also instrumental 
in founding The First Tee, a charity helping underprivileged children become 
acquainted with the game of golf.[4] His son, Joe Louis Barrow, Jr., currently 
oversees the organization.[5] In 2009, the PGA of America granted posthumous 
membership to Ted Rhodes, John Shippen and Bill Spiller, who were denied 
the opportunity to become PGA members during their professional careers. 
The PGA also has granted posthumous honorary membership to Louis.[87] Louis 
had two children by wife Marva Trotter (daughter Jacqueline in 1943 and 
son Joseph Louis Barrow Jr. in 1947) . They divorced in March 1945 only 
to remarry a year later, but were again divorced in February 1949.[60][88] 
Marva moved on to an acting and modeling career.[68][89] On Christmas Day 
1955, Louis married Rose Morgan, a successful Harlem businesswoman; their 
marriage was annulled in 1958.[88] Louis's final marriage – to Martha Jefferson, 
a lawyer from Los Angeles, on St. Patrick's Day 1959 – lasted until his 
death. They had four children: another son named Joseph Louis Barrow Jr, 
John Louis Barrow, Joyce Louis Barrow, and Janet Louis Barrow. The younger 
Joe Louis Barrow Jr. lives in New York City and is involved in boxing.[77][88] 
Though married four times, Louis discreetly enjoyed the company of other 
women like Lena Horne. In 1940 Louis endorsed and campaigned for Republican 
Wendell Willkie for president. Louis said, "This country has been good 
to me. It gave me everything I have. I have never come out for any candidate 
before but I think Wendell L. Willkie will give us a square deal. So I 
am for Willkie because I think he will help my people, and I figure my 
people should be for him, too."[90] In 1953, Robert Gordon directed a movie 
about Louis's life, The Joe Louis Story. The movie, filmed in Hollywood, 
starred Golden Gloves fighter Coley Wallace in the role of Louis.[91] Starting 
in the 1960s, Louis was frequently mocked by segments of the African-American 
community (including Muhammad Ali) for being an "Uncle Tom."[92] Drugs 
took a toll on Louis in his later years. In 1969, he was hospitalized after 
collapsing on a New York City street. While the incident was at first credited 
to "physical breakdown,"[88] underlying problems would soon surface. In 
1970, he spent five months at the Colorado Psychiatric Hospital and the 
Veterans Administration Hospital in Denver, hospitalized by his wife, Martha, 
and his son, Joe Louis Barrow Jr., for paranoia.[88] In a 1971 book, Brown 
Bomber, by Barney Nagler, Louis disclosed the truth about these incidents, 
stating that his collapse in 1969 had been caused by cocaine, and that 
his subsequent hospitalization had been prompted by his fear of a plot 
to destroy him.[88] Strokes and heart ailments caused Louis's condition 
to deteriorate further later in the decade. He had surgery to correct an 
aortic aneurysm in 1977 and thereafter used an POV/scooter for a mobility 
aid.[15][93] Louis died of cardiac arrest in Desert Springs Hospital near 
Las Vegas on April 12, 1981, just hours after his last public appearance 
viewing the Larry Holmes–Trevor Berbick Heavyweight Championship. Ronald 
Reagan waived the eligibility rules for burial at Arlington National Cemetery 
and Louis was buried there with full military honors on April 21, 1981.[94][95] 
His funeral was paid for in part by former competitor and friend, Max Schmeling,[96] 
who also acted as a pallbearer. In all, Louis made 25 defenses of his Heavyweight 
title from 1937 to 1948, and was a world champion for 11 years and 10 months. 
Both are still records in the heavyweight division, the former in any division.[97] 
His most remarkable record is that he knocked out 23 opponents in 27 title 
fights, including five world champions.[98] In addition to his accomplishments 
inside the ring, Louis uttered two of boxing's most famous observations: 
"He can run, but he can't hide" and "Everyone has a plan until they've 
been hit".[15][99] Louis was named fighter of the year four times by The 
Ring magazine in 1936, 1938, 1939, and 1941. His fights with Max Baer, 
Max Schmeling, Tommy Farr, Bob Pastor and Billy Conn were named fight of 
the year by that same magazine. Louis won the Sugar Ray Robinson Award 
in 1941. In 2005 Louis was named the #1 heavyweight of all time by the 
International Boxing Research Organization. In 2007 he was ranked #4 on 
ESPN.com's 50 Greatest Boxers of all-time list. In 2002 The Ring ranked 
Louis #4 on their 80 best fighters of the last 80 years list. Louis was 
also ranked #1 on The Ring's list of 100 Greatest Punchers of All Time. 
Louis is also remembered in sports outside of boxing. An indoor sports 
venue is named after him in Detroit, the Joe Louis Arena, where the Detroit 
Red Wings play their NHL games.[100] In 1936, Vince Leah, then a writer 
for the Winnipeg Tribune used Joe Louis's nickname to refer to the Winnipeg 
Football Club after a game. From that point, the team became known popularly 
as the Winnipeg Blue Bombers.[101] His recognition also transcends the 
sporting world. In 2002, scholar Molefi Kete Asante listed Joe Louis on 
his list of 100 Greatest African Americans.[102] On August 26, 1982, Louis 
was posthumously approved for the Congressional Gold Medal, the highest 
award given to civilians by the U.S. legislative branch.[103] Congress 
stated that he "did so much to bolster the spirit of the American people 
during one of the most crucial times in American history and which have 
endured throughout the years as a symbol of strength for the nation".[104] 
Following Louis' death, President Ronald Reagan said, "Joe Louis was more 
than a sports legend—his career was an indictment of racial bigotry and 
a source of pride and inspiration to millions of white and black people 
around the world."[105] A memorial to Louis was dedicated in Detroit (at 
Jefferson Avenue & Woodward) on October 16, 1986. The sculpture, commissioned 
by Time, Inc. and executed by Robert Graham, is a 24-foot-long (7.3 m) 
arm with a fisted hand suspended by a 24-foot-high (7.3 m) pyramidal framework. 
It represents the power of his punch both inside and outside the ring.[106] 
In an interview with Arsenio Hall in the late 1980s, Muhammad Ali stated 
that his two biggest influences in boxing were Sugar Ray Robinson and Joe 
Louis.[107] On February 27, 2010, an 8-foot (2.4 m) bronze statue of Louis 
was unveiled in his Alabama hometown. The statue, by sculptor Casey Downing, 
Jr., sits on a base of red granite outside the Chambers County Courthouse.[108] 
In 1993, he became the first boxer to be honored on a postage stamp issued 
by the U.S. Postal Service.[109] Various other facilities have been named 
after Joe Louis. In 1984, the four streets surrounding Madison Square Garden 
were named Joe Louis Plaza in his honor. The former Pipe O' Peace Golf 
Course in Riverdale, Illinois (a Chicago suburb), was in 1986 renamed "Joe 
Louis The Champ Golf Course".[110] American Legion Post 375 in Detroit 
is also named after Joe Louis. Completed in 1979 at a cost of $4 million, 
Joe Louis Arena, nicknamed The Joe, is a hockey arena located in downtown 
Detroit. It is the home of the Detroit Red Wings of the National Hockey 
League. In one of the most widely quoted tributes to Louis, New York Post 
sportswriter Jimmy Cannon was known for the following statement (interjecting 
to another person's characterization of Louis as "a credit to his race"); 
"Yes, Joe Louis is a credit to his race—the human race."[111] This article 
incorporates material from the Citizendium article "Joe Louis", which is 
licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported 
