Joseph Evans Brown (July 28, 1891 – July 6, 1973) was an American actor 
and comedian, remembered for his amiable screen persona, comic timing, 
and enormous elastic-mouth smile.[1] He was one of the most popular American 
comedians in the 1930s and 1940s, with successful films like A Midsummer 
Night's Dream, Earthworm Tractors, and Alibi Ike. In his later career Brown 
starred in Some Like It Hot (1959), as Osgood Fielding III, in which he 
utters the famous punchline, "Well, nobody's perfect." Brown was born on 
July 28, 1891, in Holgate, Ohio, near Toledo, into a large family largely 
of Welsh descent. He spent most of his childhood in Toledo. In 1902, at 
the age of ten, he joined a troupe of circus tumblers known as the Five 
Marvelous Ashtons, who toured the country on both the circus and vaudeville 
circuits. Later he became a professional baseball player. Despite his skill, 
he declined an opportunity to sign with the New York Yankees to pursue 
his career as an entertainer. After three seasons he returned to the circus, 
then went into Vaudeville and finally starred on Broadway. He gradually 
added comedy to his act, and transformed himself into a comedian. He moved 
to Broadway in the 1920s, first appearing in the musical comedy Jim Jam 
Jems. In late 1928, Brown began making films, starting the next year with 
Warner Bros.. He quickly became a favorite with child audiences,[1] and 
shot to stardom after appearing in the first all-color all-talking musical 
comedy On with the Show (1929). He starred in a number of lavish Technicolor 
Warner Brothers musical comedies including: Sally (1929), Hold Everything 
(1930), Song of the West (1930), and Going Wild (1930). By 1931, Joe E. 
Brown had become such a star that his name was billed above the title in 
the films in which he appeared. He appeared in Fireman, Save My Child (1932), 
a comedy in which he played a member of the St. Louis Cardinals, and in 
Elmer, the Great (1933) with Patricia Ellis and Claire Dodd and Alibi Ike 
(1935) with Olivia de Havilland, in both of which he portrayed ballplayers 
with the Chicago Cubs. In 1933 he starred in Son of a Sailor with Jean 
Muir and Thelma Todd. In 1934, Brown starred in A Very Honorable Guy with 
Alice White and Robert Barrat, in The Circus Clown again with Patricia 
Ellis and with Dorothy Burgess, and with Maxine Doyle in Six-Day Bike Rider. 
Brown was one of the few vaudeville comedians to appear in a Shakespeare 
film; he played Francis Flute in the Max Reinhardt/William Dieterle film 
version of Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night's Dream (1935) and was highly 
praised for his performance.[1] He starred in Polo Joe (1936) with Carol 
Hughes and Richard "Skeets" Gallagher, and in Sons o' Guns. In 1933 and 
1936, he became one of the top ten earners in films. He was sufficiently 
well known internationally by this point to be depicted in comic strips 
in the British comic Film Fun for twenty years from 1933. He left Warner 
Brothers to work for producer David L. Loew, starring in When's Your Birthday? 
(1937). In 1938, he starred in The Gladiator, a loose film adaptation of 
Philip Gordon Wylie's 1930 novel Gladiator that influenced the creation 
of Superman.[2] He gradually switched to making "B" pictures. In 1939, 
Brown testified before the House Immigration Committee in support of a 
bill that would allow 20,000 German Jewish refugee children into the US. 
He later adopted two refugee children.[3] During WWII, he spent a great 
deal of time entertaining troops, spending many nights working and meeting 
servicemen at the Hollywood Canteen.[1] He wrote of his experiences entertaining 
the troops in his book Your Kids and Mine. Joe E. Brown's other two sons 
were in the military service. In 1942 Brown's son, Captain Don E. Brown, 
was killed when his A-20 Havoc crashed near Palm Springs, California.[4] 
At 50, Brown himself was too old to enlist, but he traveled thousands of 
miles at his own expense to entertain American troops. He was the first 
to do so, traveling to both the Caribbean and Alaska before Bob Hope had, 
and before the USO was organized. "While big USO names like Bob Hope did 
not visit the Leyte, Philippine area my father was in (housing was not 
good), Leyte received any number of entertainers during the war. Dad said 
the entertainers were all just a bunch of nice people. One group in particular 
was the top actors from a very popular and large musical of the times. 
Dad and a few of his buddies would walk back to the tents that housed the 
USO performers and would visit with them. Mostly, the USO performers were 
curious about the events on the islands and how the men were handling things. 
One performer, a “wonderful comedian” named Joe E. Brown, would commandeer 
a military vehicle and be driven around the island. The entertainer would 
stop military pedestrians, “ream” them for some inconsequential matter, 
start laughing, then invite them into the cab so they could be driven to 
their destinations. Joe E. Brown was greatly appreciated." (Memories of 
Capt. Donald Courtright, told to his daughter Mary in 2011.)[citation needed] 
On his return to the States, he brought sacks of letters, making sure they 
were delivered by the Post Office Department. He gave shows in all weather 
conditions, many in hospitals, sometimes doing his entire show for a single 
dying soldier. He would sign autographs for everyone. Brown was one of 
only two civilians to be awarded the Bronze Star in WWII. His concern for 
the troops continued into the Korean War, as evidenced by a newsreel featuring 
his appeal for blood donations to aid the US and UN troops there that was 
featured in the season 4 episode of M*A*S*H entitled 'Deluge'.[5] In 1948, 
he was awarded a Special Tony Award for his work in the touring company 
of Harvey.[1][6] He had a cameo appearance in Around the World in 80 Days 
(1956), as the Fort Kearney stationmaster talking to Fogg (David Niven) 
and his entourage in a small town in Nebraska. In the similarly epic film 
It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World (1963), he cameoed as a union official 
giving a speech at a construction site in the climactic scene. On television, 
he was the mystery guest on What's My Line? during the January 11, 1953, 
episode. His best known postwar role was that of aging millionaire Osgood 
Fielding III in Some Like It Hot (1959), the comedy directed by Billy Wilder. 
Fielding falls for Daphne (Jerry), played by Jack Lemmon in drag; at the 
end of the film, Lemmon takes off his wig and reveals to Brown that he 
is a man, to which Brown responds, "Well, nobody's perfect", one of the 
most celebrated punchlines in film history. Another of his notable postwar 
roles was that of "Cap'n Andy Hawkes" in MGM's 1951 remake of Show Boat, 
a role that he reprised onstage in the 1961 New York City Center revival 
of the musical and on tour. The musical film version included such prominent 
costars as Ava Gardner, Howard Keel, and Kathryn Grayson. Brown performed 
several dance routines in the film, and famed choreographer Gower Champion 
appeared along with first wife Marge. Brown was a sports enthusiast, both 
in film and personally. Some of his best films were the "baseball trilogy" 
which consisted of Fireman, Save My Child (1932), Elmer the Great (1933) 
and Alibi Ike (1935). He was also a television and radio broadcaster for 
the New York Yankees in 1953. His son, Joe L. Brown, inherited an interest 
in baseball, becoming the general manager of the Pittsburgh Pirates for 
more than twenty years. Brown also spent Ty Cobb's last days with him before 
he died, discussing his life. Brown's sports enthusiasm also led to him 
becoming the first president of PONY Baseball and Softball (at the time 
named Pony League) when the organization was incorporated in 1953. He continued 
in the post until late 1964, when he retired. Later he traveled additional 
thousands of miles telling the story of PONY League, hoping to interest 
adults in organizing baseball programs for young people. He was also a 
fan of Thoroughbred horse racing, a regular at Del Mar Racetrack and the 
races at Santa Anita. He was caricatured in the Disney cartoons Mickey's 
Gala Premiere (1933), Mother Goose Goes Hollywood (1938), and The Autograph 
Hound (1939); all of them contain a scene in which he is seen laughing 
so loud that his mouth opens extremely wide. According to the official 
autobiography Daws Butler: Characters Actor, Daws Butler used Joe E. Brown 
as inspiration for the voices of two Hanna-Barbera cartoon characters: 
Lippy the Lion (1962) and Peter Potamus (1963–1966).[7] Brown had four 
children: two sons, Don Evan Brown (December 25, 1916 – October 8, 1942; 
Captain in the United States Army Air Force who was killed during pilot 
training) and Joe LeRoy "Joe L." Brown (September 1, 1918 – August 15, 
2010), and two daughters, Mary Katherine Ann (b. 1930) and Kathryn Francis 
(b. 1934). Both daughters were adopted as infants. Joe L. Brown shared 
his father's love of baseball, serving as general manager of the Pittsburgh 
Pirates from 1955 to 1976, and briefly in 1985, and building the 1960 and 
1971 World Series champions. Brown's '71 Pirates featured baseball's first 
all-black starting nine. Brown's final film appearance was in The Comedy 
of Terrors (1964). Weeks earlier, he had appeared as Diamond "Dimey" Vine 
in an episode of Jack Palance's ABC circus drama The Greatest Show on Earth. 
Brown began having heart problems in 1968, after suffering a severe heart 
attack, and underwent cardiac surgery. He died from arteriosclerosis on 
July 6, 1973,[8][9] at his home in Brentwood, Los Angeles, California, 
three weeks before his 82nd birthday.[1] He is interred at Forest Lawn 
Memorial Park in Glendale, California. In 1961, Bowling Green State University 
renamed the theatre in which Brown appeared in Harvey in the 1950s as the 
"Joe E. Brown Theatre". It was closed in 2011.[10] In 1960, he was inducted 
to the Hollywood Walk of Fame for his contribution to motion pictures. 
His star for that honor is at 1680 Vine Street.[11] Holgate, Ohio has a 
street named after Brown. Toledo, Ohio, has a city park named the "Joe 
E. Brown Park" at 150 W Oakland St. Rose Naftalin's popular 1975 cookbook 
includes a cookie named the "Joe E. Brown".[12][13] Brown was a frequent 
customer of Naftalin's Toledo restaurant. Flatrock Brewing Company in Napoleon, 
Ohio offers several brown ales such as Joe E. Coffee And Vanilla Bean Brown 
Ale, Joe E. Brown Hazelnut, Chocolate Peanut Butter Joe E. Brown, Joe E 
