Joseph Franklin "Joe" Niekro (November 7, 1944 – October 27, 2006) was 
an American Major League Baseball right-handed pitcher. He was the younger 
brother of pitcher Phil Niekro, and the father of Minor League Baseball 
pitcher and first baseman Lance Niekro. Born and grew up in Martins Ferry, 
Ohio,[1] Niekro attended Bridgeport High School in Bridgeport, Ohio and 
attended West Liberty University in West Liberty, West Virginia. During 
a 22-year baseball career, he pitched from 1967–1988 for seven different 
teams, primarily for the Houston Astros. Niekro pitched for the Chicago 
Cubs, San Diego Padres and Detroit Tigers with occasional success before 
joining Phil with the Atlanta Braves in 1973. Joe used a fastball and a 
slider early in his career, with mixed results. He spent two seasons in 
Atlanta with Phil and got re-acquainted with the knuckleball that their 
father taught them. The knuckleball became an essential part of his arsenal 
though never his sole pitch. Joe threw harder than Phil and could set up 
batters nearly as effectively with his fastball in combination with his 
excellent changeup. The Houston Astros purchased Niekro's contract from 
the Braves for $35,000 in 1975. He blossomed into a dominant pitcher as 
he perfected his knuckleball in Houston, going 21–11 in 1979 and 20–12 
in 1980, to become the first Astros pitcher to win 20 games in consecutive 
seasons. He also made the National League All-Star team in 1979, a season 
in which he led the league with his 21 wins and five shutouts, won the 
TSN Pitcher of the Year Award, and ended second in voting for the Cy Young 
Award behind Bruce Sutter. 1979 also saw the Niekro brothers tie for the 
wins leader in Major League Baseball, marking this the only year that two 
brothers shared this honor. In 1980, Houston had a three-game lead over 
the Los Angeles Dodgers in the NL West, then lost their last three games 
of the regular season in Los Angeles, to force a one-game playoff. Niekro 
allowed six hits in a 7–1 Houston victory that propelled the Astros to 
their first postseason. He then pitched 10 shutout innings in Game 3 of 
the NLCS and the Astros won, 1–0, though they lost the series to the Philadelphia 
Phillies, 3–2. In September 1985, Houston traded the 40-year-old Niekro 
to the New York Yankees, where he briefly reunited again with Phil.[2] 
Niekro finished his career with the Minnesota Twins, where he pitched in 
the World Series for the only time, in 1987. Earlier that season, Niekro 
had been suspended for ten games when umpire Tim Tschida discovered a nail 
file in his pocket during a game against the California Angels. When Tschida 
told Niekro to empty his pockets, Niekro reached into his pockets, pulled 
out his hands and threw them in the air. The emery board and a piece of 
sandpaper flew out of his pocket and fluttered to the ground. The video 
of this made a lot of sports-highlight shows and is a common "blooper" 
clip today. Niekro said he was filing his nails in the dugout, but American 
League president Dr. Bobby Brown did not believe him, and ordered the suspension. 
Niekro was eventually released by the Twins shortly into the second month 
of the 1988 season and subsequently retired. On October 26, 2006, Niekro 
suffered a brain aneurysm and was taken to South Florida Baptist Hospital 
in Plant City, Florida. He was later transferred to St. Joseph's Hospital 
in Tampa, Florida, where he died the following day at age 61. The Joe Niekro 
Foundation, created by his daughter Natalie, is committed to supporting 
patients and families, research, treatment and awareness of Brain Aneurysms, 
AVMs and Hemorrhagic Strokes. The non-profit organization provides education 
on the risk factors, causes and treatments of these conditions, while funding 
