Joseph William "Joe" Kelly (born June 9, 1988) is an American professional 
baseball pitcher for the Boston Red Sox of Major League Baseball (MLB). 
He has served as both a starter and reliever. His repertoire features a 
power sinker that can reach speeds of up to 96 miles per hour (MPH). Kelly 
has also gained publicity for his comical repertoire, such as skillfully 
dancing in the outfield during practice, disguising himself while interviewing 
the unwitting rapper Nelly, and engaging in lengthy staredown with Los 
Angeles Dodgers outfielder Scott Van Slyke before a 2013 National League 
Championship Series game. In the summer of 2014, the St. Louis Cardinals 
traded Joe Kelly, along with teammate Allen Craig, to the Boston Red Sox. 
Kelly was born in Anaheim, California[1] and attended Corona High School 
in Corona, California. Following high school Kelly attended the University 
of California, Riverside (UCR), and played college baseball for the Highlanders 
team.[2] An outfielder in high school, he converted to pitcher for the 
Highlanders and served as the closer.[3] He was named Big West Conference 
Pitcher of the Year in 2007 as a freshman.[4] In 2009, Kelly posted a 5.65 
earned run average (ERA) with a 1–1 won–lost record (W–L record). Kelly 
set a Highlanders record with 24 career saves and was named an All-American. 
His final career stats at UCR included a 4.65 ERA and an 8–11 record in 
42 career games.[3] The St. Louis Cardinals drafted Kelly in the third 
round of the 2009 MLB draft and signed him on June 15 for $341,000. His 
first professional start was with the Batavia Muckdogs of the New York–Penn 
League, where he appeared in 16 games, posted a 4.75 ERA, pitched 30 1⁄2 
innings (IP) and struck out 20 (SO).[4] The Cardinals began to use Kelly 
as a starting pitcher with the Quad Cities River Bandits to get him more 
innings and develop his secondary pitches. He succeeded in the role and 
remained a starter.[5] For the season, Kelly appeared in 26 games on the 
mound, made 18 starts, pitched 103 1⁄3 innings, registered 92 SO, 103 hits 
allowed (H) and 45 walks (BB) for a 4.62 ERA and 6–8 record.[6] In 2011, 
Kelly advanced from the high-A level to AA, pitching for the Palm Beach 
Cardinals of the Florida State League and the Springfield Cardinals of 
the Texas League. In hIs combined final seasons statistics, Kelly started 
22 games, pitched 132 innings, posted 113 SO with a 3.68 ERA. The next 
season in AAA at Memphis he posted a 2.68 ERA in 12 starts and earned a 
call-up to the major league club.[6] Kelly made his major league debut 
on June 10, 2012,[7] replacing the injured Jaime García in the Cardinals' 
starting rotation.[8] Once García returned to the rotation, Kelly moved 
to a bullpen role; however, he impressed team officials so much they considered 
keeping him in the rotation and moving Lance Lynn to the bullpen.[9] Kelly 
acquired his first major league hit and run batted in (RBI) as the result 
of a communication error. In a June 25 contest against the Miami Marlins, 
manager Mike Matheny attempted a double switch with the score tied 6–6 
in the bottom of the ninth at Marlins Park. Matheny presented his decision 
to place relief pitcher Víctor Marte in the game to home plate umpire Bob 
Davidson in exchange for third baseman David Freese, originally batting 
in the seventh spot, and, at the same time, bring in Tyler Greene for the 
ninth position – previously assigned to the pitcher who was Marte's predecessor 
– to play second base. The second baseman already in the game, Daniel Descalso, 
would move to third base.[10] After Matheny presented Davidson the lineup 
card, he wrote "5" (used to designate the third baseman) next to Descalso's 
name. When Davidson conveyed the change to Marlins manager Ozzie Guillén, 
an error in communication occurred, because, after Marte faced one batter, 
Guillén emerged from the dugout to argue that Marte and Allen Craig, the 
number five hitter, "couldn't be on the field at the same time." Rather 
than countering Guillén's protest, Matheny removed Craig and substituted 
Tony Cruz at first base, erasing two of the Cardinals' top hitters, Craig 
and Freese, from the game.[10] In the top of the tenth, Marte was due in 
Craig's fifth spot. Now having retained no regular batters, Matheny chose 
a speedy former college outfielder to bat for Marte, rookie pitcher Joe 
Kelly. The Cardinals had gained the lead, 7–6, at this point and Kelly 
batted with the bases loaded and two outs. He beat a ground ball for an 
infield hit that scored a run – his first major league hit and RBI – and 
put the Cardinals up 8–6. This run proved to be crucial insurance as Miami's 
Omar Infante scored on a John Buck single in the bottom of the tenth. Nevertheless, 
Jason Motte, Marte's replacement, closed it out for the 8–7 win.[11][12][13] 
After spring training in 2013, Kelly lost his rotation spot to rookie Shelby 
Miller and was relegated to the bullpen for much of the first half of the 
season, seeing little use.[14] However, he became known somewhat as a "stopper" 
after being reinserted into the rotation to increase its effectiveness. 
In August, Kelly went 5–0 with a 2.08 ERA.[15] He allowed an 83.3% baserunners 
strand rate as a reliever in and 82% as a starter and finished with a 2.69 
ERA in 124 IP in 2013. In three starts against the Pittsburgh Pirates – 
of whom the Cardinals finished three games ahead – Kelly won all three 
starts.[16] He won ten of 15 games started in the 2013 regular season, 
posting a 2.69 ERA.[17] Against the Milwaukee Brewers on September 22, 
Kelly showcased some of his speed he utilized as a former center fielder 
when Brewer Carlos Gómez was caught in a rundown between third base and 
home plate. Himself a speedy center fielder with 37 stolen bases at the 
time, Gómez was attempting to run back to third base when Kelly took the 
throw and sprinted from behind him. He caught up with Gómez, dove, and 
tagged him out just steps away from the bag.[18] On October 6, Kelly made 
his first postseason start against the Pirates in the 2013 National League 
Division Series, which he got a no-decision. He had the same result in 
Game 1 of the NLCS, but lost to the Los Angeles Dodgers in Game 5. However, 
in Game 6, Kelly and Dodgers outfielder Scott Van Slyke created a stir 
before the first pitch by engaging in a lengthy staredown. Both men remained 
on the field after the conclusion of the United States national anthem, 
"The Star-Spangled Banner," long after the rest of their teammates departed 
the field to await the start of the game. They maintained their positions 
with hats over their chests through the ground crew's preparation of the 
field and starting pitcher Michael Wacha's warmup pitches. A total of about 
15 minutes transpired before an annoyed Greg Gibson, the home plate umpire, 
scattered them. Both claimed "victory", as Kelly had smiled first, and 
Van Slyke had first moved from his position.[19] This event induced noticeable 
laughter from teammates, curiosity from announcers calling the game and 
Twitter participants in a state of mirth. Van Slyke commented that he had 
"never done that. I stayed out there after the anthem was over and noticed 
Kelly was out there, too, and I figured I would stay longer than him. Then 
I caught his eye and he had this big smile, like he was telling me he could 
stay longer than I could, and before you know it, it was just the two of 
us." Kelly added, "After every national anthem, I usually stand there and 
wait for the other team to leave. It's something that I like doing, and 
I guess I feel like I get a little grin out of that. But I guess [Van Slyke] 
caught onto it, and he just started standing there."[19] The Cardinals 
won the game behind Wacha's strong performance, and thus the series. Joe 
Kelly made his first World Series start in Game 3 against the Boston Red 
Sox. He received a no-decision, but the Cardinals won the game. However, 
they lost the series in six games, 4-2. Joe Kelly won his 2014 debut on 
April 5 after the Cardinals defeated the Pirates, 6–1, despite allowing 
10 base runners in 5 1⁄3 innings. He also doubled off opposing starter 
Francisco Liriano for his first hit of the season.[20] He spent most of 
the first half on the Disabled List, but rehabbed in Triple-A Memphis and 
was activated to face the Milwaukee Brewers on July 11. He gave up six 
earned runs in his return from the DL, but got a no-decision when Matt 
Holliday, Jhonny Peralta, Kolten Wong, and Matt Adams all homered to give 
the Cardinals a comeback win. His next start, on July 19 against the Dodgers, 
was a dominant 7-inning performance that tied his longest career outing. 
On July 31, 2014, Kelly was traded to the Boston Red Sox along with first 
baseman/outfielder Allen Craig for starting pitcher John Lackey and Corey 
Littrell.[21] In 10 starts for Boston, Kelly went 4–2 with a 4.11 ERA and 
allowed 32 walks in 61 1⁄3 innings. In January, 2015, Kelly made a guarantee 
to the Boston media that he would win the A.L. Cy Young award the following 
season. [22] He began the 2015 season on the disabled list. Through his 
first 15 starts, he suffered through his worst season in the majors, going 
2–6 with a 5.74 ERA. He had led all major league pitchers with four errors 
through July 27. However, in an August resurgence, he won all six starts, 
including August 29, a 3–1 win over the New York Mets, making him the first 
Red Sox pitcher since Pedro Martínez to record six wins in one month. He 
lowered his ERA to 4.94 in August. Kelly was shut down after September 
15 due to injury. He finished the season 10–6 in 25 starts, and didn't 
come anywhere close to getting a single vote for the Cy Young, falling 
far short of his prediction to win the award outright. The Red Sox placed 
Kelly on the DL with a right shoulder impingement on April 20, 2016. In 
his return on May 21, he took a no-hitter through 6 2⁄3 IP against the 
Cleveland Indians until Juan Uribe broke it up with a double. Boston won, 
9–1.[23] He ended the 2016 season with a 5.18 ERA[24] Joe Kelly throws 
a lively fastball that can reach up to 100 miles per hour (MPH) and complements 
it with a sinking fastball and slider. His sinker is among the prized pitches 
in the game – it shows dramatic horizontal movement, while paradoxically, 
not showing the kind of vertical movement (sink or drop) of other sinkerballers 
such as teammate Justin Masterson – and is one of the fastest in the game, 
at about 93 MPH. He also throws a changeup to left-handed batters and an 
infrequent curveball. His control of his pitches – including his fastball 
– receives compliments.[16][25] Joe Kelly married Ashley Parks, daughter 
of former Minnesota Twins catcher Derek Parks, in November 2013. Kelly's 
teammate and friend Shelby Miller served as best man. Miller and Kelly 
shared a condominium for a time and also competed for rotation spots in 
spring training of 2013 and Kelly likewise served as best man at Miller's 
wedding.[26] Kelly met his wife while attending UCR.[18] Kelly has showcased 
his jocular side on occasions besides the 2013 NLCS. While rapper Nelly, 
a self-professed Cardinals fan and "unofficial mayor" of St. Louis, interviewed 
with Fox Sports Midwest's Jim Hayes before a game in 2013 featuring his 
bobblehead giveaway, Hayes welcomed "an older member of the Cardinals organization" 
to participate. This older member was Kelly wearing a mask of a bald, elderly 
man. Nelly never guessed that it was a prank until Kelly revealed himself 
after the interview.[27] His mother, Andrea, is of Mexican American descent.[28] 
Earlier in the 2013 season, Kelly was spotted dancing salsa in the outfield. 
He attributed this urge to dance salsa to moves his mother taught him after 
urging him to take lessons when he was a child.[27] he currently resides 
