Joseph Francis "Joe" Buck (born April 25, 1969) is an American sportscaster 
and the son of sportscaster Jack Buck. He has won numerous Sports Emmy 
Awards for his work with Fox Sports, including his roles as lead play-by-play 
announcer for the network's National Football League and Major League Baseball 
coverage. Since 1996, he has served as the play-by-play announcer for the 
World Series, each year, with the exceptions of 1997 and 1999. Buck was 
born in St. Petersburg, Florida (where the St. Louis Cardinals, for whom 
his father broadcast, then conducted their spring training) and raised 
in the St. Louis area, where he attended St. Louis Country Day School. 
He began his broadcasting career in 1989 while he was an undergraduate 
at Indiana University Bloomington.[2] From 1993 to 2011, Buck was married 
to Ann Archambault, with whom he had two children.[3] He married NFL Network 
reporter and former Bronco cheerleader Michelle Beisner on April 12, 2014.[4] 
Buck called play-by-play for the then-Louisville Redbirds, a minor league 
affiliate of the Cardinals, and was a reporter for ESPN's coverage of the 
Triple-A All-Star Game. In 1991, he did reporting for St Louis' CBS affiliate 
KMOV. Also, in 1991 Buck began broadcasting for the Cardinals on local 
television and KMOX Radio, filling in while his father was working on CBS 
telecasts. In the 1992–93 season, he was the play-by-play voice for University 
of Missouri basketball broadcasts. Buck continued to call Cardinals games 
after being hired by Fox Sports, initially with his father on KMOX and 
later on FSN Midwest television. As his network duties increased, however, 
his local workload shrank, and prior to the 2008 season it was announced 
that he would no longer be calling Cardinals telecasts for FSN Midwest. 
This marked the first time since 1960 that a member of the Buck family 
was not part of the team's broadcasting crew.[5] In 1994, Buck was hired 
by Fox, and at the age of 25 became the youngest man ever to announce a 
regular slate of National Football League games on network television. 
In 1996, he was named Fox's lead play-by-play voice for Major League Baseball, 
teaming with Tim McCarver, who had previously worked with his father on 
CBS. That year, he became the youngest man to do a national broadcast (for 
all nine innings and games, as a network employee as opposed to simply 
being a representative of one of the participating teams) for a World Series, 
surpassing Sean McDonough, who called the 1992 World Series for CBS at 
the age of 30. McDonough had replaced Jack Buck as CBS' lead baseball play-by-play 
man after he was fired in late 1991. On September 8, 1998 Buck called Mark 
McGwire's 62nd home run that broke Roger Maris' single-season record. The 
game was nationally televised live in prime time on Fox. It was a rarity 
for a nationally televised regular season game to not be aired on cable 
since the end of the Monday/Thursday Night Baseball era on ABC in 1989. 
During Fox's broadcast of the 2002 World Series, Buck paid implicit tribute 
to his father, who had died a few months earlier (he had read the eulogy 
at his father's funeral) by calling the final out of Game 6 (which tied 
the series at 3–3, and thus ensured there would be a Game 7 broadcast the 
next night) with the phrase, "We'll see you tomorrow night." This was the 
same phrase with which Jack Buck had famously called Kirby Puckett's home 
run off Braves pitcher Charlie Leibrandt which ended Game 6 of the 1991 
World Series. Since then, Joe has continued to use this phrase at appropriate 
times, including Game 4 of the 2004 ALCS, in which the Boston Red Sox famously 
rallied off of New York Yankees closer Mariano Rivera in the 9th inning 
to avoid elimination. When David Ortiz's walk-off home run finally won 
it for the Red Sox in the 12th inning, Buck uttered, "We'll see you later 
tonight," alluding to the fact that the game had extended into the early 
morning. He also used the phrase at the end of Game 6 of the 2011 World 
Series when the Cardinals' David Freese hit a walk-off home run in the 
11th inning against the Rangers to send the series to a seventh game (it 
was actually 20 years and a day since Kirby Puckett's home run). The similarity 
of both the call and the game situation resulted in mentions on national 
news broadcasts. Another notable Red Sox game in the ALCS was in 2013, 
Game 2 against the Detroit Tigers at Fenway Park. The Red Sox were trailing 
5-1 in the bottom of the eighth inning, with the bases loaded with David 
Ortiz at-bat. Ortiz hit a game-tying grand slam off of Tigers' closer Joaquín 
Benoit. His call: "Hard hit into right, back at the wall," and then he 
calls, "TIE GAME!" as the ball flies over Torii Hunter, who flipped over 
the outfield wall.[6] Buck is currently paired with John Smoltz as his 
color analyst, and Ken Rosenthal and Erin Andrews (Buck's sideline reporter 
on NFL coverage) are the field reporters. Besides working with Tim McCarver 
for 18 seasons (1996-2013), Buck also worked with former MLB player and 
current MLB Network/Fox Sports analyst Harold Reynolds and baseball writer/insider 
Tom Verducci for 2 seasons (2014-2015). About a month or two after the 
2015 World Series, Reynolds and Verducci were demoted to the #2 team and 
John Smoltz moved up from the #2 team (with Matt Vasgersian) in order to 
take Reynolds and Verducci's places. Through 2016, Buck has called 18 World 
Series and 17 All-Star Games, the most of any play-by-play announcer on 
network television. (However, his former partner McCarver called more of 
each event as an analyst, 24 and 22 respectively.) Soon after arriving 
at Fox, Buck became the play-by-play man on the network's #4 NFL broadcast 
team, with Tim Green as his color commentator. After three years, he stopped 
doing NFL games to concentrate on his baseball duties full-time. During 
the 2001 season, Buck occasionally filled in for Curt Menefee as the network's 
number-six play-by-play man. Buck became Fox's top play-by-play man in 
2002, replacing Pat Summerall. He is currently teamed with Troy Aikman 
as color commentator and Erin Andrews as the sideline reporter. (Buck also 
worked with Cris Collinsworth from 2002-2004, before the latter's move 
to Showtime, NFL Network, and NBC). Buck is only the third announcer to 
handle a television network's lead MLB and NFL coverage in the same year 
(following NBC's Curt Gowdy and ABC's Al Michaels). By 2002, his Fox duties 
forced him to cut his local Cardinals schedule to 25 games. (Eventually, 
Buck left the Cardinals altogether to join Fox Sports "full-time" in 2008.) 
On August 14, 2006, Buck was named the host of Fox's pregame NFL show, 
Fox NFL Sunday and postgame doubleheader show. According to the Nielsen 
ratings system, viewership was down for the entire season.[7] Fox announced 
in March 2007 that Buck would no longer host Fox NFL Sunday in 2007, concentrating 
on play-by-play for the week's marquee game.[8] On October 14, 2012, Buck 
called a doubleheader, first with the New York Giants-San Francisco 49ers 
game at 4:25 PM, then traveled via trolley for the seven-mile journey across 
town to call Game 1 of the NLCS between the St. Louis Cardinals and the 
San Francisco Giants.[9] In April 2014, it was announced that Buck would 
team with Greg Norman to anchor Fox's new package of United States Golf 
Association telecasts, most prominently the U.S. Open tournament.[10] The 
pair made their broadcast debut at the Franklin Templeton Shootout (an 
event also hosted by Norman) on December 12–14, 2014.[11] Norman was later 
fired by Fox after 2015 and replaced by Paul Azinger in 2016. On February 
5, 2009, Buck signed with HBO to host a sports-based talk show for the 
network called Joe Buck Live, with a format similar to that of Costas Now, 
the monthly HBO program previously hosted by Bob Costas.[12] The show's 
debut on June 15, 2009, made national headlines due to the tension-filled 
banter between Buck and guest Artie Lange, a comedian from The Howard Stern 
Show, who made several jokes at Buck's expense.[13] Two more episodes aired 
in 2009. In March 2010, Buck told a St. Louis radio station that HBO might 
be planning to cancel Joe Buck Live, adding that he "won't really miss" 
the program and that it involved "a lot more effort and hassle than I ever 
expected".[14] HBO subsequently confirmed the show's cancellation to Broadcasting 
& Cable.[15] In the late 1990s, Buck hosted a weekly sports-news show, 
Goin' Deep, for Fox Sports Net cable. He also called horse racing and professional 
bass fishing events early in his Fox career, as well as the network's first 
Cotton Bowl Classic telecast in 1999. Since 2001, Buck has hosted the "Joe 
Buck Classic", a celebrity pro-am golf tournament that is played each May 
to raise money for St. Louis Children's Hospital.[16] In 2007, Buck filmed 
a pilot episode for a prospective late-night talk and comedy program with 
former Saturday Night Live writer and director Matt Piedmont. Piedmont 
and Buck wrote and produced the pilot with Piedmont directing, filming 
in New York City and Los Angeles and featuring Molly Shannon, David Spade 
and Paul Rudd. Buck co-hosted the program with Abebe Adusmussui, an actual 
New York City taxi driver.[17] The pilot was not picked up as a series, 
however. Buck has also appeared in various national television commercials 
for such clients as Holiday Inn and Budweiser beer. One of the more memorable 
spots for the latter had Buck goaded into using the catchphrase, "Slamma-lamma-ding-dong!" 
A 2008 commercial for National Car Rental had him using the catchphrase, 
"Now that's a good call". Buck has also done local commercials in the St. 
Louis market for the Suntrup chain of automobile dealerships. He also contributes 
occasional opinion pieces to The Sporting News, and is a key contributor 
on Team 1380 on the ITD Morning After program in St. Louis. In the week 
before calling Super Bowl XLVIII, Buck starred in a Web video for Funny 
or Die in which he tries to report on the game from New York City but continues 
to get interrupted by locals who dislike him.[18] In 2014, Buck was named 
as the new host of NFL Films Presents, to coincide with the program's move 
from ESPN2 to Fox Sports 1.[19] Buck is generally regarded as "one of the 
most heavily criticized" announcers in sports,[20] with various fans complaining 
that he is biased on his calls towards or against particular teams.[20][21][22] 
Buck attributes this to the fact that most fan bases, especially Major 
League Baseball fans, are used to hearing local announcers and not those 
working national broadcasts:[21] "Fans are used to hearing their hometown 
guys. When you come at it objectively, people aren't used to it."[22] Reporting 
from the field following the game in which Mark McGwire broke Roger Maris' 
single-season home run record in 1998, Buck began his postgame interview 
on Fox by requesting (and getting) a hug from McGwire, which led to criticisms 
of Buck's on-air professionalism from some sources.[23] In January 2005, 
Buck drew fire for his on-air comments during an NFL playoff game between 
the Minnesota Vikings and Green Bay Packers. After Vikings wide receiver 
Randy Moss simulated mooning the Green Bay crowd in the end zone, Buck 
called it a "disgusting act." The moon was actually a response to Packer 
fans, who traditionally moon the Vikings players aboard the team bus, which 
Buck did not mention.[24] Buck's comment also indicated that he incorrectly 
believed that Moss had in fact mooned the fans. It prompted Red McCombs, 
then the owner of the Minnesota Vikings, to request that Buck be removed 
from covering their upcoming playoff game, saying that Buck's comments 
"suggested a prejudice that surpassed objective reporting."[25] Buck also 
received criticism from other members of the media who felt he "over-reacted" 
and was being "inconsistent" given his network's history of programming.[26][27][28][29] 
In 2007, Buck was scheduled to call eight regular season MLB games out 
of a 26-game schedule for Fox (along with a handful of regional Cardinals 
telecasts on FSN Midwest). In an interview with Richard Sandomir of the 
New York Times, he defended his reduced baseball commitment:[30] If you 
or the casual fan doesn’t want to consider me the No. 1 baseball announcer 
at Fox, it’s not my concern ... I don’t know why it would matter. I don’t 
know who had a more tiresome, wall-to-wall schedule than my father, and 
I know what it’s like to be a kid in that situation ... He was gone a lot. 
He needed to be. I understood it. So did my mom. Because my career has 
gone the way it’s gone, I don’t have to go wall to wall. ...While I’m deathly 
afraid of overexposure, I’m more afraid of underexposure at home with my 
wife and girls. In 2008, Buck drew criticism for comments he made during 
an appearance on ESPN Radio's The Herd with Colin Cowherd, in which he 
admitted to spending "barely any" time following sporting events he doesn't 
broadcast and facetiously claimed that he preferred watching The Bachelorette 
instead.[31] In June 2015, Buck announced he had quit his Twitter account. 
Buck explained that he quit Twitter because he found himself engaging negative 
people and allowing criticism to affect how he was doing his job.[20] He 
would return to Twitter four months later to engage in friendly banter 
with a Kansas City Royals fan who started a petition to have him removed 
from the Fox broadcast team for the Royals' appearance in the 2015 American 
League Championship Series.[32] Also in June 2015, Buck and co-announcer 
Greg Norman were criticized for their "mistake-filled, error-prone mess" 
in covering the 2015 U.S. Open in golf.[33] In particular they were questioned 
for prematurely anointing Dustin Johnson as the winner "at the start of 
a back nine". In 2011, shortly after broadcasting Super Bowl XLV for Fox, 
Buck claimed to have developed a virus on the nerves of his left vocal 
fold. Despite the ailment, which according to Buck "came out of the blue" 
and hampered his ability to raise his voice, he continued to broadcast 
baseball for Fox during the 2011 season, and resumed as the network's lead 
NFL announcer that fall.[34][35][36][37] In 2016, Buck revealed that the 
problem was not due to a virus, but rather to vocal cord paralysis likely 
caused by anaesthesia used during multiple hair transplantation procedures.[38] 
