Joel Randolph Youngblood III (born August 28, 1951) is a former professional 
baseball player. He was a versatile player, who could play many different 
positions, as well as pinch hit. After his playing career ended, he served 
as the third base coach for the Arizona Diamondbacks. Youngblood was drafted 
by the Cincinnati Reds out of Stephen F. Austin High School in the second 
round of the 1970 Major League Baseball Draft. After six seasons in their 
farm system, in which he batted .275 with 47 home runs and 274 RBIs, he 
made his major league debut on April 13, 1976. He batted only .193 for 
the "Big Red Machine" the season they swept the National League Championship 
Series and World Series, but he made his one and only appearance as a catcher 
that season.[1] During Spring training the following season, he was dealt 
to the St. Louis Cardinals for Bill Caudill.[2] He hit a home run in his 
first at-bat as a Cardinal, albeit during an exhibition game.[3] In 25 
regular season games with the Cards, Youngblood batted .185 with just one 
run batted in and no home runs. On June 15, 1977, the New York Mets traded 
Tom Seaver to the Cincinnati Reds for Pat Zachry, Doug Flynn, Steve Henderson 
and Dan Norman, and Dave Kingman to the San Diego Padres for Bobby Valentine 
and minor league pitcher Paul Siebert. Somewhat more quietly that day, 
they also acquired Youngblood from the Cardinals for Mike Phillips. To 
make room for Youngblood on the Mets' active roster, player-manager Joe 
Torre retired as a player.[4] With the Mets, Youngblood emerged as something 
of a "star" on the team that consistently finished last or close to it 
throughout his time in New York City. He was the sole Mets representative 
on the National League team for the 1981 Major League Baseball All-Star 
Game. In that strike-shortened season, Youngblood hit .350 in 143 at-bats 
to mark his career-high. On August 4, 1982, Youngblood became the only 
player in history to get hits for two different teams in two different 
cities on the same day. After Youngblood had driven in two runs with a 
single in the third inning for the Mets in an afternoon game at Wrigley 
Field against the Chicago Cubs,[5] he was replaced in center field by Mookie 
Wilson, and traded to the Montreal Expos for a player to be named later 
(On August 16, the Expos sent Tom Gorman to the Mets to complete the deal). 
Youngblood rushed to Philadelphia in order to be with his new team, and 
hit a seventh-inning single.[6] Interestingly, the two pitchers he hit 
safely against, Ferguson Jenkins of the Cubs and Steve Carlton of the Philadelphia 
Phillies, are both in the Baseball Hall of Fame. Following the season, 
he signed as a free agent with the San Francisco Giants. As a utility player, 
he appeared in 124 games for the 1983 Giants. In 1984, his role with the 
Giants became more defined as he made 117 appearances at third. His low 
fielding percentage (.887) at that position returned him to his utility 
role for the remainder of his Giants career. Youngblood signed as a free 
agent with the Cincinnati Reds for 1989. After one season back with the 
Reds, Youngblood joined the Sun City Rays of the Senior Professional Baseball 
Association in 1990. He was batting an average of .326 with four home runs 
and 16 RBI, just when the league folded during the midseason. Youngblood 
served as a coach for the Cincinnati Reds, Milwaukee Brewers and Baltimore 
Orioles in the 1990s. He also managed the Kane County Cougars, an Orioles 
farm club in the Midwest League, in 1992. In 1999 he left baseball to work 
in sales for a computer company, but returned in 2007 to take a coaching 
job with the Arizona Diamondbacks organization.[7] After serving as a minor 
league outfield and baserunning coordinator, Youngblood joined the Diamondbacks 
as third base coach on July 3, 2010. In 2011, he returned to the position 
of outfield/baserunning coordinator for the Diamondbacks organization.[8] 
