Joel Meyers is an American sportscaster and current play-by-play announcer 
of the New Orleans Pelicans of the National Basketball Association.[1] 
His professional resumé includes NFL telecasts on NBC, Los Angeles Dodgers 
telecasts from 1990–91, California Angels telecasts from 1987–89, St. Louis 
Cardinals radio broadcasts in 2002, Los Angeles/Oakland Raiders radio broadcasts, 
San Antonio Spurs telecasts, various assignments for ESPN and FSN, and 
even the Los Angeles Lazers of the Major Indoor Soccer League. Meyers called 
the 2007 FIBA Americas Gold and Bronze Medal games with Steve "Snapper" 
Jones. From 2012-13 he called preseason games for the Houston Texans with 
Spencer Tillman. He also called games for the Los Angeles Clippers. Meyers 
currently calls Big 12 Conference college football games for FSN and NBA 
games for ESPN Radio. He previously worked National Football League games 
for Westwood One (usually teamed with Bob Trumpy), but left that network 
after the 2006 season. He currently works for Fox Sports New Orleans as 
the play-by-play announcer for the New Orleans Pelicans. Meyers also called 
the 2014 preseason lineup on local Cox Sports Television for the New Orleans 
Saints.[2] Meyers called select games for the 2014 NBA Playoffs on TNT 
partnered with Chris Webber.[3] Meyers most notably started work for the 
Los Angeles Lakers of the National Basketball Association in 2003 as their 
radio voice, the year after Chick Hearn died.[4] Two years later, he was 
moved from radio to television where he was paired with Stu Lantz. Meyers 
replaced Paul Sunderland, who had succeeded Chick Hearn. Meyers left the 
Lakers at the end of the 2010-2011 season when the team did not renew his 
contract. He was supposed to be replaced by Spero Dedes, but Dedes ended 
up choosing a contract with the New York Knicks instead. Eventually, Meyers 
would be replaced by Bill Macdonald. A St. Louis native, Meyers attended 
the University of Missouri, and served as the public address announcer 
at Busch Stadium II for the St. Louis Cardinals from 1980 until 1982, with 
the Cardinals winning the World Series in his final season. He and his 
wife, Carol, have two sons, Drew and J.J. They reside in Hidden Hills, 
