As player As coach Jose Manuel Cora Amaro (born May 14, 1965) is a former 
Major League Baseball player with an 11-year career in the MLB spanning 
the years 1987 and 1989-1998. He played for the San Diego Padres of the 
National League and the Chicago White Sox, Seattle Mariners and Cleveland 
Indians of the American League. He played second base, shortstop, third 
base and also served as a designated hitter. In college, Cora played for 
Vanderbilt University. On June 3, 1985 he was drafted by the San Diego 
Padres in the first round. As a member of the Beaumont Golden Gators Cora 
received national attention when on June 22, 1986 he was stabbed after 
a game in San Antonio, Texas. Cora, who had been a first round draft pick, 
was waiting outside the team bus following the game against the San Antonio 
Missions at V.J. Keefe Stadium when two men called his name and then assaulted 
him. He was stabbed once in the stomach and once in the arm. Cora was quickly 
rushed to the hospital and later made a full recovery after spending six 
weeks on the disabled list. A man named Jose Puente, 29, was caught at 
the scene and was later charged with attempted murder. Apparently Cora 
had exchanged words with fans outside of the visitor's dressing room, resulting 
in the fans returning with more men later on.[1] He debuted in the Major 
Leagues on April 6, 1987, as a 21-year-old rookie. After spending parts 
of three seasons with the Padres, he was traded to the Chicago White Sox 
in 1991, where Cora would spend the next four seasons. On April 6, 1995, 
he signed with the Seattle Mariners, where he would enjoy his most productive 
seasons at bat. His 24-game hitting streak was a Mariners record (later 
broken by Ichiro Suzuki), and still stands as the longest streak for American 
League switch-hitters. In 1997, he was elected to the American League All-Star 
team and went on to hit .300 with 11 home runs and 54 RBI. Cora, who was 
nicknamed "Little Joey," was one of the most popular Mariners during his 
time with the team, and many fans admired the second baseman for his hustle, 
grit, and good nature. He also endeared himself to the fans when the Mariners' 
storied 1995 season was ended in game six of the 1995 American League Championship 
Series by the Cleveland Indians. Cora, like thousands of fans in the Kingdome 
that day, broke down and wept. The footage of him weeping while the Mariners' 
then-rookie Alex Rodriguez draped his arm across Cora's shoulder and consoled 
him was widely replayed throughout the Seattle area. This event was memorialized 
the following year with a very humorous promotional ad. The sensitivity 
and emotion Cora displayed made him particularly popular with young women 
in the Pacific Northwest, who would often hold signs at Mariners' home 
games, saying "Marry me, Joey!" Cora spent most of the 1998 season as a 
Mariner, but with the team falling out of contention, he was dealt to the 
Cleveland Indians in exchange for David Bell, where he barely played, due 
to injuries. He signed a free-agent contract with the Toronto Blue Jays 
during the off-season, but retired without playing a game. Following his 
retirement from play, Cora was a manager in the New York Mets minor league 
system. He was later hired by teammate and good friend, Ozzie Guillén as 
a coach. He began coaching in 2003 for the Chicago White Sox. His responsibilities 
included facilitating the role of third base coach and organizing the team's 
spring training camps prior to his promotion to bench coach following the 
2006 season. He occasionally serves as an interim manager whenever Guillen 
is suspended or ejected from a game, or is unable to attend for any other 
reason. He managed the Venezuelan Winter League baseball team Tiburones 
de la Guaira in the 2005–2006 season with a record of 31–31 (.500) Joey 
is the elder brother of MLB player, Alex Cora. Both brothers are Major 
League Baseball World Champions. Joey earned his ring as the third base 
coach of the 2005 World Champion Chicago White Sox. Alex earned his as 
a member of the 2007 World Champion Boston Red Sox. Cora was interviewed 
by the Milwaukee Brewers for their managerial opening in October 2010. 
He was believed to be a finalist along with Bob Melvin, Bobby Valentine, 
and Ron Roenicke.[2] Cora was dismissed by the White Sox on September 27, 
2011, the day after they released Guillén from his contract, despite initially 
tabbing Cora to manage the final two games of the season.[3][4] Cora was 
named bench coach of the Miami Marlins on November 1, 2011, reuniting with 
Guillén.[5] Cora took over as interim manager for the Miami Marlins on 
April 10, 2012 in the wake of Ozzie Guillen's 5-game suspension for comments 
related to Fidel Castro. In 2016, Cora became the manager of the Pittsburgh 
Pirates Double-A club, the Altoona Curve. He became the ninth manager in 
franchise history. [6] After the 2016 season, he was promoted and became 
a base coach for the 2017 season. Cora served as a guest analyst on MLB 
Network's 2013 World Baseball Classic coverage and subsequently joined 
