Johnstown is a city in Cambria County, Pennsylvania, United States,[3] 
43 miles (69 km) west-southwest of Altoona and 67 miles (108 km) east of 
Pittsburgh. The population was 20,978 at the 2010 census[4] and estimated 
to be 20,402 in 2013.[5] It is the principal city of the Johnstown, Pennsylvania, 
Metropolitan Statistical Area, which includes Cambria County.[6] Johnstown, 
settled in 1770, is perhaps most famous for its three major floods. The 
"Great Flood" of May 31, 1889, occurred after the South Fork Dam collapsed 
14.1 miles (22.7 km) upstream from the city during heavy rains. At least 
2,209 people died as a result of the flood and subsequent fire that raged 
through the debris. Another major flood occurred in 1936. Despite a pledge 
by President Franklin Delano Roosevelt to make the city flood free, and 
subsequent work to do so, another major flood occurred in 1977. The 1977 
flood - in what was to have been a "flood free" city - may have contributed 
to Johnstown's subsequent population decline and inability to attract new 
residents and businesses. The city is home to five national historic districts: 
the Downtown Johnstown Historic District, Cambria City Historic District, 
Minersville Historic District, Moxham Historic District, and Old Conemaugh 
Borough Historic District. Individual listings on the National Register 
of Historic Places are the Grand Army of the Republic Hall, Cambria Iron 
Company, Cambria Public Library Building, Bridge in Johnstown City, Nathan's 
Department Store, and Johnstown Inclined Railway.[7] Johnstown was formally 
organized as a town in 1800 by the Swiss German immigrant Joseph Johns 
(born Josef Schantz). The settlement was initially known as "Schantzstadt", 
but was soon anglicized to Johnstown. From 1834 to 1854, the city was a 
port and key transfer point along the Pennsylvania Main Line Canal. Johnstown 
was at the head of the canal's western branch, with canal boats having 
been transported over the mountains via the Allegheny Portage Railroad 
and refloated here, to continue the trip by water to Pittsburgh and the 
Ohio Valley. Perhaps the most famous passenger who traveled via the canal 
to visit Johnstown briefly was Charles Dickens in 1842. By 1854, canal 
transport became redundant with the completion of the Pennsylvania Railroad, 
which now spanned the state. With the coming of the railroads, the city's 
growth improved. Johnstown became a stop on the main line of the Pennsylvania 
Railroad and was connected with the Baltimore & Ohio. The railroads provided 
large-scale development of the region's mineral wealth. Iron, coal, and 
steel quickly became central to the town of Johnstown. By 1860, the Cambria 
Iron Company of Johnstown was the leading steel producer in the United 
States, outproducing steel giants in Pittsburgh and Cleveland. Through 
the second half of the 19th century, Johnstown made much of the nation's 
barbed wire. Johnstown prospered from skyrocketing demand in the western 
United States for barbed wire. Twenty years after its founding, the Cambria 
Works was a huge enterprise sprawling over 60 acres (240,000 m2) in Johnstown 
and employing 7,000. It owned 40,000 acres (160 km2) of valuable mineral 
lands in a region with a ready supply of iron, coal and limestone. Floods 
were almost a yearly event in the valley during the 1880s. On the afternoon 
of May 30, 1889, following a quiet Memorial Day ceremony and a parade, 
it began raining in the valley. The next day water filled the streets, 
and rumors began that a dam holding an artificial lake in the mountains 
to the northeast might give way. It did, and an estimated 20 million tons 
of water began spilling into the winding gorge that led to Johnstown some 
14 miles (23 km) away. The destruction in Johnstown occurred in only about 
10 minutes. What had been a thriving steel town with homes, churches, saloons, 
a library, a railroad station, electric street lights, a roller rink, and 
two opera houses was buried under mud and debris. Out of a population of 
approximately 30,000 at the time, at least 2,209 people are known to have 
perished in the disaster. An infamous site of a major fire during the flood 
was the old stone Pennsylvania Railroad bridge located where the Stonycreek 
and Little Conemaugh rivers join to form the Conemaugh River. The bridge 
still stands today.[8] The Johnstown Flood established the American Red 
Cross as the pre-eminent emergency relief organization in the United States. 
Founder Clara Barton, then 67, came to Johnstown with 50 doctors and nurses 
and set up tent hospitals as well as temporary "hotels" for the homeless, 
and stayed on for five months to coordinate relief efforts.[9] The mills 
were back in operation within a month. The Cambria Works grew, and Johnstown 
became more prosperous than ever. The disaster had not destroyed the community 
but strengthened it. Later generations would draw on lessons learned in 
1889. In the early 20th century, the population reached 75,000 people. 
The city's first commercial radio station, WJAC, began broadcasts in 1925. 
The downtown boasted at least five major department stores, including Glosser 
Brothers, which in the 1950s gave birth to the Gee Bee chain of department 
stores. However, the St Patrick's Day flood of 1936 combined with the gnawing 
effects of the Great Depression left Johnstown struggling again, but only 
temporarily. Johnstown's citizens mobilized to achieve a permanent solution 
to the flooding problem and wrote to President Franklin Roosevelt pleading 
for federal aid. Starting in August 1938, continuing for the next five 
years, the U. S. Army Corps of Engineers gouged, widened, deepened, and 
realigned 9.2 miles (14.8 km) of river channel in the city, and encased 
the river banks in concrete and reinforced steel. In a campaign organized 
by the Chamber of Commerce, thousands of Johnstown's citizens wrote to 
friends and relatives across the country hoping to bring new business to 
the town. Professional ice hockey would find a home in Johnstown, starting 
in 1941 with the Johnstown Blue Birds for one season and returning in 1950 
with the Johnstown Jets. The Jets later hosted an exhibition game against 
Maurice Richard and the Montreal Canadiens on November 20, 1951. The memory 
of floods was virtually purged from the community's consciousness. Newcomers 
to the town heard little about the tragic past. Johnstown proclaimed itself 
"flood-free", a feeling reinforced when Johnstown was virtually the only 
riverside city in Pennsylvania not to flood during Hurricane Agnes in 1972. 
The immediate post-World War II years mark Johnstown's peak as a steel 
maker and fabricator. At its peak, steel provided Johnstowners with more 
than 13,000 full-time, well-paying jobs. However, increased domestic and 
foreign competition, coupled with Johnstown's relative distance from its 
primary iron ore source in the western Great Lakes, led to a steady decline 
in profitability. New capital investment waned. Johnstown's mountainous 
terrain, and the resulting poor layout for the mills' physical plant strung 
along 11 miles (18 km) of river bottom lands, compounded the problem. New 
regulations ordered by the EPA in the 1970s also hit Johnstown, with the 
aging Cambria plant (now Bethlehem Steel) especially hard. However, with 
encouragement from the steel company, the city fathers organized an association 
called Johnstown Area Regional Industries (JARI) and, within a year, raised 
$3 million for industrial development in the area. Bethlehem Steel, which 
was the major contributor to the fund, committed itself to bringing new 
steelmaking technologies to Johnstown because they were impressed by the 
city's own efforts to diversify. Extensive damage from the 1977 flood was 
heavy and there was talk of the company pulling out. Again, the city won 
a reprieve from the company's top management, which had always regarded 
the Johnstown works with special affection because of its history and reputation. 
As the increasing amount of federal environmental regulations became more 
difficult to comply with and the issues with the aging manufacturing facilities 
grew more significant, and as steel companies began closing down plants 
all over the country, by 1982 it looked as if Johnstown had exhausted its 
appeals. By the early 1990s, Johnstown abandoned most of its steel production, 
although some limited fabrication work continues. In 2003, U.S. Census 
data showed that Johnstown was the least likely city in the United States 
to attract newcomers; however, what were previously relatively weak opportunities 
provided by the local manufacturing and service economies have more recently 
begun to burgeon, attracting outsiders. Gamesa Corporación Tecnológica, 
a Spanish wind energy company, opened its first U.S. wind turbine blade 
manufacturing facility near here in 2006. Several state-of-the-art operational 
wind turbines are sited on Babcock Ridge, the "Eastern Continental Divide", 
along the eastern edge of Cambria and Somerset counties. Lockheed Martin 
relocated a facility from Greenville, South Carolina, to Johnstown in 2008. 
Companies like Concurrent Technologies Corporation, DRS Laurel Technologies, 
ITSI Biosciences, Kongsberg Defense and more throughout the region are 
embracing cutting edge technology and scientific progress to create products 
that make life easier, better and greener. Recent construction in the surrounding 
region, the downtown, and adjacent Kernville neighborhood—including a new 
100,000-square-foot (9,300 m2) Regional Technology Complex that will house 
a division of Northrop Grumman, among other tenants—signal the increasing 
dependence of Johnstown's economy on the U.S. government's defense budget. 
The high-tech defense industry is now the main non-health-care staple of 
the Johnstown economy, with the region pulling in well over $100M annually 
in federal government contracts, punctuated by one of the premier defense 
trade shows in the U.S., the annual Showcase for Commerce. Johnstown remains 
a regional medical, educational, cultural, and communications center. As 
in many other locales, health care provides a significant percentage of 
the employment opportunities in the city. The region is located right in 
the middle of the "Health Belt", an area stretching from the Midwest to 
New England and down the East Coast that has had massive growth in the 
health care industry. Major health care centers include Memorial Medical 
Center and Windber Medical Center, the Laurel Highlands Neuro-Rehabilitation 
Center, and the John P. Murtha Neuroscience and Pain Institute, with its 
advances in treating wounded veterans, and the Joyce Murtha Breast Care 
Center’s focus on early diagnosis and advanced treatment. The University 
of Pittsburgh at Johnstown and Pennsylvania Highlands Community College 
attract thousands of students to their contiguous campuses in Richland, 
5 miles (8 km) east of Johnstown. Cambria-Rowe Business College, located 
in the Moxham section of Johnstown, offers concentrated career training 
and has continuously served Johnstown since 1891. The Pasquerilla Performing 
Arts Center, a concert/theatrical venue at the University of Pittsburgh 
at Johnstown, attracts high-quality performers. The Johnstown Symphony 
Orchestra and the recently formed Johnstown Symphony Chamber Players provide 
classical music. The Johnstown Concert Ballet, centered in the Historic 
Cambria City District, provides classical ballet performances and training 
to the area. The Pasquerilla Convention Center was recently constructed 
downtown, adjacent to the historic Cambria County War Memorial Arena at 
326 Napoleon Street. Point Stadium, a baseball park where Babe Ruth once 
played, was razed and rebuilt. A zoning ordinance created an artist zone 
and a traditional neighborhood zone to encourage both artistic endeavors 
and the old-fashioned "Mom and Pop" enterprises that had difficulty thriving 
under the previous code. The Bottleworks Ethnic Arts Center offers many 
exhibitions, events, performances, and classes that celebrate the rich 
and diverse cultural heritage of the area. The Johnstown Chiefs ice hockey 
team provided entertainment to the region for 22 seasons, the longest period 
a franchise of the league stayed in one city. The Chiefs were a member 
team of the ECHL, and played their home games in the Cambria County War 
Memorial Arena. The Chiefs' decision to relocate caused a flood of public 
interest in the sport of hockey. As many as four leagues were interested 
in having a team in the War Memorial. In the end the city landed a deal 
with another ECHL team, the Wheeling Nailers. The CJL Engineering Office 
Building at 232 Horner Street was awarded a LEED Silver Certification by 
the U.S. Green Building Council on March 30, 2010. It is the first fully 
certified LEED building in Johnstown. The recently established ART WORKS 
in Johnstown! houses artist studios in some of the area's architecturally 
significant but underused industrial buildings. The ART WORKS in Johnstown 
project is projected to be a non-profit LEED-certified green building. 
The Frank & Sylvia Pasquerilla Heritage Discovery Center opened in 2001 
with the permanent exhibit "America: Through Immigrant Eyes", which tells 
the story of immigration to the area during the Industrial Revolution. 
In June 2009, the Heritage Discovery Center opened the Johnstown Children's 
Museum and premiered "The Mystery of Steel", a film detailing the history 
of steel in Johnstown. The Bottleworks Ethnic Arts Center, ART WORKS, and 
the Heritage Discovery Center are located in the historic Cambria City 
section of town, which boasts a variety of eastern European ethnic churches 
and social halls. This neighborhood hosted the National Folk Festival for 
three years in the early 1990s, which expanded into the Flood City Music 
Festival. Johnstown also hosts the annual Thunder in the Valley motorcycle 
rally during the fourth week of June; the event has attracted motorcyclists 
from across the Northeast to the city of Johnstown since 1998. Well over 
200,000 participants enjoyed the 2008 edition of Thunder in the Valley, 
and the event continues to grow in size. Significant efforts have been 
made to deal with deteriorating housing, brownfields, drug problems, and 
other issues as population leaves the city limits and concentrates in suburban 
boroughs and townships. The Johnstown Fire Department has become a leader 
in developing intercommunication systems among first responders, and is 
now a national model for ways to avoid the communications problems which 
faced many first responders during the September 11, 2001 attacks.[citation 
needed] On May 2, 2015, Johnstown was announced the winner of the 2015 
Kraft Hockeyville USA contest and was awarded $150,000 toward improvements 
of the Cambria County War Memorial Arena. The contest was sponsored through 
a partnership between Kraft Foods, the National Hockey League (NHL), and 
National Hockey League Player's Association (NHLPA). In addition to the 
cash prize, the arena won the opportunity to host the September 29, 2015 
NHL pre-season game between the Pittsburgh Penguins and Tampa Bay Lightning. 
Johnstown is located in southwestern Cambria County at 40°19′31″N 78°55′15″W﻿ 
/ ﻿40.32528°N 78.92083°W﻿ / 40.32528; -78.92083 (40.325174, -78.920954).[10] 
According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area 
of 6.1 square miles (15.8 km2), of which 5.9 square miles (15.3 km2) is 
land and 0.19 square miles (0.5 km2), or 3.25%, is water. The Conemaugh 
River forms at Johnstown at the confluence of its tributaries, the Stonycreek 
River and the Little Conemaugh. As of the census of 2010, there were 20,978 
people, 9,917 households, and 5,086 families residing in the city. The 
population density was 3,555.6 people per square mile (1,371.1/km²). There 
were 11,978 housing units at an average density of 2,030.2 per square mile 
(782.9/km²). The racial makeup of the city was 80.0% White, 14.6% African 
American, 0.2% Native American, 0.2% Asian, 0.02% Pacific Islander, 0.7% 
some other race, and 4.3% from two or more races. Hispanics or Latinos 
of any race were 3.1% of the population.[18] In the three-year period ending 
in 2010, it was estimated that 22.3% of the population were of German, 
15.8% Irish, 12.9% Italian, 7.7% Slovak, 6.7% English, 5.6% Polish, and 
6.1% American ancestry.[19] At the 2010 census there were 9,917 households, 
of which 22.0% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 28.5% 
were headed by married couples living together, 17.1% had a female householder 
with no husband present, and 48.7% were non-families. 43.0% of all households 
were made up of individuals, and 17.9% were someone living alone who was 
65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.08 and the average 
family size was 2.87.[18] The age distribution was 21.7% under 18, 8.4% 
from 18 to 24, 24.4% from 25 to 44, 27.9% from 45 to 64, and 18.5% who 
were 65 or older. The median age was 41.8 years. For every 100 females 
there were 87.9 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 
84.5 males.[18] For the period 2011-2013, the estimated median annual income 
for a household in the city was $23,785, and the median income for a family 
was $32,221. Male full-time workers had a median income of $31,026 versus 
$28,858 for females. The per capita income for the city was $15,511. 34.2% 
of the population and 26.9% of families were below the poverty line. Of 
the total population, 55.0% of those under the age of 18 and 18.4% of those 
65 and older were living below the poverty line.[20] The unemployment average 
is reported at 9%, though by some estimations it is upwards of 20%. Most 
of the jobs center around health care, defense, telemarketing and retail.[citation 
needed] The city of Johnstown is divided into many neighborhoods, each 
with its own unique, ethnic feel. These include the Downtown Business District, 
Kernville, Hornerstown, Roxbury, Old Conemaugh Borough, Prospect, Woodvale, 
Minersville, Cambria City, Morrellville, Oakhurst, Coopersdale, Walnut 
Grove, Moxham and the 8th Ward. Dale (enclave – Johnstown), Westmont, Southmont, 
Brownstown, Ferndale, Upper Yoder Township, and Lower Yoder Township Richland 
Township, Geistown, Lorain and Stonycreek Township. East Conemaugh, Franklin, 
Daisytown, Conemaugh Township, as well as West Taylor, Middle Taylor, and 
East Taylor townships. South Fork, Salix, Beaverdale, Sidman, St. Michael, 
Dunlo, Wilmore, Portage, Ehrenfeld, and Summerhill. The Bruce Springsteen 
song "The River" mentions the Johnstown Company: "I got a job working construction, 
for the Johnstown Company, but lately there ain't been no work on account 
of the economy." "Highway Patrolman", another Springsteen song, has the 
lyrics "as the band played 'Night of the Johnstown Flood.'" The 1977 film 
Slap Shot, directed by George Roy Hill and starring Paul Newman, was a 
parody loosely based on the real-life Johnstown Jets ice hockey team and 
its North American Hockey League championship in 1976. In the movie, Johnstown 
was rechristened "Charlestown" and the Jets as the Charlestown Chiefs. 
The film's premiere engendered some local controversy, as some thought 
Johnstown was portrayed in a less than flattering light. Slap Shot has 
since become the iconic movie about hockey and its foibles. Screenwriter 
Nancy Dowd would revive the fake town of "Charlestown" in her screenplay 
for the 1981 punk rock satire Ladies and Gentlemen, The Fabulous Stains, 
but the film itself was shot in Canada. All the Right Moves, a high school 
football drama set in the fictional town of Ampipe and featuring Tom Cruise, 
Lea Thompson and Craig T. Nelson, was filmed in the area. Locations seen 
in the movie are the old Johnstown High School in the Kernville neighborhood, 
torn down shortly afterwards; the Carpatho-Russian Citizen's Club in East 
Conemaugh; the Franklin works of Bethlehem Steel; the Point Stadium; the 
Johnstown "Cochran" Junior High football practice field and the Johnstown 
Vo-Tech football locker room. Part of the film Rock Star takes place in 
Pittsburgh, and several scenes, including the opening scene, were filmed 
in Johnstown. The Johnstown Flood, written and directed by Charles Guggenheim, 
won the Academy Award for Best Documentary, Short Subject in 1989. The 
film was commissioned by the Johnstown Flood Museum Association, which 
later reorganized as the Johnstown Area Heritage Association, and is shown 
every hour at the Johnstown Flood Museum. Mystery novel writer K. C. Constantine 
fictionalized many elements of Johnstown and its culture as "Rocksburg" 
in his novels, although the nearby city of Greensburg also provides some 
of the lore for Rocksburg. In 2000, Kathleen Cambor published In Sunlight, 
In A Beautiful Garden. The novel followed its characters through the events 
leading up to and including the 1889 flood. Although the protagonists in 
the novel were fictional, several historical figures, such as Andrew Mellon, 
Henry Clay Frick and Daniel Morrell were also depicted in the book. Author 
James Patterson had his fictional serial kidnapper, Gary Soneji, from Along 
Came a Spider stop at a convenience store on his way through Johnstown. 
Author David Morrell had his fictional character "Eliot" recruit two brothers 
from an orphanage in Johnstown to train as assassins in The Brotherhood 
of the Rose. In the 1978 film Dawn of the Dead, a character mentions that 
they are flying over Johnstown, Pennsylvania, and quips that the people 
are actually entertained by the zombie outbreak. George A. Romero filmed 
the majority of the zombie movie at the Monroeville Mall, some 50-odd miles 
away. Johnstown is featured in Defenders of Freedom Volume 1 (2010) and 
Defenders of Freedom Volume 2 (2012). Both are hardcover books, published 
by the Williamsport Sun-Gazette, featuring first person stories of Lycoming 
County, Pennsylvania, military veterans who served in World War II, Korea 
and Vietnam. In the foreword of each volume, Johnstown native and nationally 
recognized newspaper publisher Bernard A. Oravec shares stories of his 
father's military police service in Germany and growing up in Johnstown's 
west end during the 1970s. Author and Johnstown native Robert T. Jeschonek 
wrote a nonfiction history of the local landmark Glosser Bros. Department 
Store and its multimillion-dollar parent company in his 2014 book Long 
Live Glosser's. Jeschonek also depicted a fictional 1975 tour of the Glosser 
Brothers Department Store in his 2013 novelette Christmas at Glosser's. 
Johnstown is the setting of Jeschonek's story Fear of Rain, which was nominated 
for a British Fantasy Award. His mystery novels Death by Polka and The 
Masked Family are also set in and around Johnstown. Colleges: Secondary 
education: Libraries: Major employers in the area include: The Johnstown 
radio market radio stations in the area are: Johnstown's television market 
is part of the Johnstown/Altoona/State College market. NBC affiliate WJAC-TV 
6 and Fox affiliate WWCP-TV 8 are licensed in the city. Johnstown is also 
served by CBS affiliate WTAJ-TV 10 and ABC affiliate WATM-TV 23, both based 
in Altoona, and State College-based PBS member station WPSU-TV 3, licensed 
to Clearfield but based on the Pennsylvania State University campus. WPCW 
19, The CW's owned-and-operated station in Pittsburgh licensed to Jeannette 
(and was itself once licensed in Johnstown), serves as the market's default 
CW affiliate. Several other low-power stations, including WHVL-LP 29 (MyNetworkTV) 
in State College, also transmit to Johnstown. The main highway connecting 
Johnstown to the Pennsylvania Turnpike is U.S. Route 219. There is also 
State Route 56, which is an expressway from 219 until Walnut Street. From 
there, it provides a connection to U.S. Route 22 to the north of Johnstown, 
which connects to Pittsburgh and Altoona. The local airport is the John 
Murtha Johnstown-Cambria County Airport and is served by United Airlines. 
Passenger rail service is provided by Amtrak's daily 'Pennsylvanian'. The 
city is located on the former mainline of the Pennsylvania Railroad. Norfolk 
Southern operates 60-80 trains daily on these rails. CSX also has a branch 
into the city. CamTran operates the local bus service and the Johnstown 
Inclined Plane. Until 1976, local transit service was operated by a private 
company, Johnstown Traction Company. Streetcars (or "trolleys") operated 
in Johnstown until 1960, and trolley buses from 1951 until 1967.[21] Johnstown 
has been home to a long succession of minor league hockey franchises dating 
back to 1940. The most recent manifestation, the Johnstown Chiefs, were 
named for their Slap Shot counterparts. The team made their ECHL debut 
in 1988. The team announced in February 2010 that they would be leaving 
Johnstown for a location in South Carolina. In April 2010 it was announced 
that the Wheeling Nailers of the ECHL would call Johnstown home for 10 
games during the regular season and for one of their preseason games. They 
will be returning once again for the 2011-12 season. The city also has 
history in amateur and professional baseball. Since 1944, Johnstown has 
been the host city for the AAABA Baseball Tournament held each summer. 
Several Major League Baseball players have played on AAABA teams over the 
years, including Hall-of Famers Al Kaline and Reggie Jackson and current 
Major League managers Joe Torre and Bruce Bochy. The organization also 
has its own Hall of Fame instituted in its 50th anniversary year of 1994. 
In addition, the city has hosted several incarnations of a Minor League 
Baseball team, the Johnstown Johnnies, beginning in 1884. The last team 
to play as the Johnnies, as a part of the Frontier League, left the city 
in 2002. Johnstown also hosts the annual Sunnehanna Amateur golf tournament 
at its Sunnehanna Country Club. The invitational tournament hosts top amateur 
golfers from around the United States. Johnstown is home to the Flood City 
Water Polo team. Established in 2005 by Zachary Puhala, the team takes 
its name from the history of floods in the area. FCWP is part of the American 
