The Johns Hopkins Blue Jays are the athletic teams that represent Johns 
Hopkins University. They compete in the NCAA Division III, except for their 
lacrosse teams, which compete in Division I. They are primarily members 
of the Centennial Conference. The team colors are Columbia blue (PMS 284) 
and black, and the blue jay is their mascot.[2] Homewood Field is the home 
stadium. Hopkins celebrates Homecoming in the spring to coincide with the 
height of the lacrosse season. The Lacrosse Museum and National Hall of 
Fame, governed by US Lacrosse, is located on the Homewood campus and is 
adjacent to Homewood Field. Past Johns Hopkins lacrosse teams have represented 
the United States in international competition. At the 1932 Summer Olympics 
lacrosse demonstration event Hopkins played for the US. They have also 
gone to Melbourne, Australia to win the 1974 World Lacrosse Championship. 
Originally, the Johns Hopkins athletes were not called Blue Jays but the 
Black and Blue, a nickname derived from their athletic colors. Hopkins 
archivist James Stimpert has theorized that the Blue Jay name stemmed from 
Hopkins' student humor magazine, The Black and Blue Jay, first published 
in 1920. The "Black and Blue" came from the athletic colors and the "Jay" 
most likely stood for first initial in Johns Hopkins. The school's most 
prominent sports team is its men's lacrosse team, which has won 44 national 
titles - nine NCAA Division I (2007, 2005, 1987, 1985, 1984, 1980, 1979, 
1978, 1974), 29 United States Intercollegiate Lacrosse Association (USILA), 
and six Intercollegiate Lacrosse Association (ILA) titles. Hopkins' lacrosse 
rivals include Princeton University, Syracuse University, the University 
of Virginia, and a budding rivalry with Duke University due to intense 
recent competition, including one-goal victories over the Blue Devils in 
both the 2005 and 2007 NCAA Championships and in the NCAA semifinals in 
the 2008; its primary intrastate rivals are Loyola University Maryland, 
Towson University, the United States Naval Academy, and the University 
of Maryland. The rivalry with Maryland is the most prominent in college 
lacrosse and the two teams have met 105 times. On June 3, 2013, it was 
announced that Johns Hopkins would be joining the Big Ten Conference as 
a Sport Affiliate member in Men's Lacrosse starting in 2015.[3] The Blue 
Jays Men's soccer team has won eight Centennial Conference Regular Season 
titles along with another four ECAC titles previously to joining the Centennial 
Conference in 1993. The team has reached the NCAA tournament 12 times in 
the program's history. The team is currently on a streak of 16 winning 
seasons and has had over 20 All-American selections. Hopkins also has an 
acclaimed fencing team, which has ranked in the top three of Division III 
teams in the past few years and in 2007 defeated the University of North 
Carolina, a Division I team, for the first time. The Swimming team also 
has ranked in the top two of Division III for the last 10 years. Hopkins 
also has a century-old rivalry with McDaniel College (formerly Western 
Maryland College), playing the Green Terrors 83 times in football since 
the first game in 1894. Johns Hopkins' latest team to encounter postseason 
success is the school's baseball team. Although Blue Jays baseball regularly 
wins the Centennial Conference regular season and tournament titles, 2008 
was the first time since 1989 that the Blue Jays made it to the College 
World Series for Division III baseball, hosted in Appleton, Wisconsin. 
The Blue Jays finished runner-up to Trinity College, losing the championship 
game. The women's cross country team has experienced great success in recent 
years, finishing 7th at the NCAA championship in 2009 and 2010. The cross 
country and track & field teams have also had several All-American runners 
in the past few years. In 2012, the women's cross country team beat out 
top-ranked MIT to become the first women's program in Johns Hopkins history 
to win an NCAA championship. They also won the NCAA championship in 2013 
and 2014, giving them 3 championships in just 8 appearances. The Johns 
Hopkins women's volleyball team won their 1st Centennial Conference Title 
in 2011. The volleyball team has 4 NCAA All-Americans. Johns Hopkins has 
