John Jacob Quinn (April 1, 1908 – September 20, 1976) was an American executive 
in Major League Baseball and a member of one of the game's most celebrated 
multi-generational families. During the era between the end of World War 
I and the end of World War II, his father, J. A. Robert Quinn, held various 
senior management and ownership positions in baseball: business manager 
of the St. Louis Browns, general manager of the Brooklyn Dodgers, and owner/general 
manager of both the Boston Red Sox and Boston Braves. John J. Quinn was 
born in Columbus, Ohio, when his father was the president and business 
manager of the minor league Columbus Senators. A graduate of Boston College, 
Quinn worked with his father in the Red Sox front office, then rejoined 
J. A. Robert Quinn with Boston's National League franchise from 1936–45, 
serving as club treasurer and, later, farm system director. He succeeded 
his father as the Braves' general manager in 1945, working under the club's 
new ownership group headed by Lou Perini.[1] He served in the GM post through 
the 1958 season, from the Braves' final seven years in Boston through their 
highly successful first six years as the Milwaukee Braves, winning the 
1948 National League pennant in Boston, and the 1957 World Series and 1958 
NL title in Milwaukee. Quinn's 1948 Boston team was anchored by starting 
pitchers Johnny Sain and Warren Spahn. Sain was acquired by the elder Quinn 
in a minor league transaction in 1942, and Spahn (a future Hall of Famer 
and baseball's winningest-all-time left-handed pitcher)[2] came up through 
John Quinn's farm system. Tommy Holmes, the club's star right fielder, 
had been obtained from the New York Yankees in a December 1941 trade (and 
was the runner-up in 1945 National League Most Valuable Player balloting). 
However, the younger Quinn was instrumental in building the 1948 Braves. 
He added both young players such as shortstop Alvin Dark, signed in 1946, 
first baseman Earl Torgeson and pitcher Vern Bickford, and veterans acquired 
in trades like second baseman Eddie Stanky, third baseman Bob Elliott and 
left fielder Jeff Heath. Quinn acquired so many supporting pieces from 
the perennially contending St. Louis Cardinals that his postwar Braves 
were often called the "Cape Cod Cardinals."[3] Quinn also broke the baseball 
color line in Boston by purchasing the contract of fleet center fielder 
Sam Jethroe from the Dodgers; as a first-year player with the 1950 Braves, 
Jethroe was selected the National League's Rookie of the Year. His Milwaukee 
champions of the 1950s relied heavily on the Braves' productive farm system, 
which developed Hall of Famers Eddie Mathews and Henry Aaron, All-Star 
catcher Del Crandall, shortstop Johnny Logan, starting pitcher Bob Buhl 
and starting outfielders Wes Covington and Bill Bruton, among many others. 
Quinn also acquired two key contributors via trades: Lew Burdette, the 
Braves' ace right-handed starting pitcher, came from the Yankees as a rookie 
in a late-season 1951 transaction for Sain, and veteran second baseman 
Red Schoendienst, another future Hall of Famer, was the centerpiece of 
a major midseason 1957 deal with the New York Giants. The Milwaukee Braves' 
home attendance shattered National League records during Quinn's tenure, 
never dipping below 1.749 million fans and exceeding the two-million mark 
for four straight years (1954–57).[4] Quinn left the Braves, the defending 
NL champions, in January 1959 to take the reins of the cellar-dwelling 
Philadelphia Phillies as general manager. Within five years, Quinn rebuilt 
the Phillies into contenders.[1] Quinn's reconstruction project produced 
three more last place finishes (1959–61) before the Phillies broke the 
.500 mark in 1962 and finished in the first division in 1963. Led by players 
Quinn signed or acquired via trades—pitcher (and future Baseball Hall of 
Famer) Jim Bunning, infielders Dick Allen, Cookie Rojas and Tony Taylor, 
outfielders Johnny Callison, Tony González and ex-Brave Covington, and 
catcher Clay Dalrymple, among others—his 1964 Phillies were on the verge 
of winning the club's third pennant in its long history. But they suffered 
a nightmarish ten-game losing streak in late September to fall out of the 
league lead and finish second. Quinn then was faced with a second rebuilding 
job during the late 1960s. In his final trade, he acquired another future 
Hall of Fame pitcher, Steve Carlton, from the Cardinals on February 25, 
1972. However, the Phillies' continued struggles on the field during the 
1972 season led to Quinn's replacement as GM by Paul Owens, the club's 
farm system and scouting director, on June 3.[5] John's son Bob was a longtime 
executive in the game and served as general manager of the Yankees, Cincinnati 
Reds and San Francisco Giants; another son, Jack, was the owner and general 
manager of the Hawaii Islanders of the Triple-A Pacific Coast League and 
also served as GM of the St. Louis Blues franchise in the National Hockey 
League. John's daughter Margo is married to longtime baseball executive 
Roland Hemond. John J. Quinn died at age 68 in Stanton, California, on 
