John Dale "Johnny" Sylvester (April 5, 1915 – January 8, 1990) was an American 
packing machinery company executive who was best known for a promise made 
to him by Babe Ruth during the 1926 World Series. Sylvester was seriously 
ill and hospitalized. Ruth said he would hit a home run on his behalf, 
which was followed by what was widely reported at the time as Sylvester's 
miraculous recovery. Sylvester was born on April 5, 1915, in Caldwell, 
New Jersey. His father, Horace Clapp Sylvester, Jr., was a banker who by 
1926 was a vice president at National City Bank and served as head of its 
municipal department. Sylvester grew up in Caldwell and moved with his 
family to a large house in Essex Fells, New Jersey in 1921. At Essex Fells 
Grammar School, his baseball skills led to his nickname as the "Babe Ruth 
Kid" and he was a diehard fan of the New York Yankees and its star player, 
Babe Ruth.[1] While at a rented house on the Jersey Shore in Bay Head, 
New Jersey during the summer of 1926, Sylvester was horseback riding when 
he was thrown to the ground along with his horse, after the horse had stepped 
into a hole. The horse tried to stand up and kicked Sylvester in the head. 
The injury progressed over the summer and by September he had been diagnosed 
with osteomyelitis in his skull, a condition that is caused by an infection 
that leads to bone deterioration. Doctors thought that his condition could 
lead to his death.[1] The condition was only one of several that Sylvester 
was said to be ailing from at the time, which was also variously ascribed 
to a back problem, blood poisoning, a sinus condition, and either a spinal 
infection or spinal fusion. The confusion as to the condition affecting 
Sylvester has led to claims that the entire incident was a hoax.[2] Urgent 
telegrams were sent to Ruth, who was then with the Yankees playing the 
St. Louis Cardinals in the 1926 World Series. It has been unclear if Sylvester 
initiated the request himself, or if it had been the idea of his father 
or uncle as an effort to lift his spirits. Ruth sent back from St. Louis 
a package that included two balls, one autographed by members of the Yankees 
and the other by players from the Cardinals. Inscribed on the ball was 
a note from Ruth that read, "I'll knock a homer for you on Wednesday", 
in Game 4 of the series.[2] After Ruth hit three home runs in Game 4 on 
Wednesday, October 6, newspapers reported that Sylvester's condition had 
miraculously improved. After the Yankees lost the series in seven games, 
Ruth visited Sylvester at his home in Essex Fells, with Sylvester telling 
Ruth "I'm sorry the Yanks lost".[2] The incident was featured in the 1948 
biopic The Babe Ruth Story, but the film took liberties with important 
facts. First, the film portrayed Ruth visiting Sylvester during the 1932 
World Series against the Chicago Cubs rather than the factual 1926 World 
Series vs the Cardinals. Second, the film has Ruth visiting the Sylvester 
home in Gary, Indiana in person and shows Ruth in the boy's bedroom telling 
Johnny that he will hit a home run if Johnny hangs in there rather than 
the factual account of sending autographed baseballs and a note to Johnny 
in New Jersey.[2] In the 1942 movie The Pride of the Yankees, Gary Cooper 
portrays Lou Gehrig, who promises a sick youth named Billy that he would 
hit two home runs at the World Series for the kid after Babe Ruth promised 
just one.[3] Sylvester graduated from Princeton University in 1937 and 
later served in the United States Navy during World War II, where he reached 
the rank of lieutenant. He was the president of the Long Island City, Queens-based 
company Amscomatic Inc., which manufactured packing machinery.[2] A resident 
of Garden City, New York, Sylvester died at age 74 at Winthrop-University 
Hospital in Mineola, New York on January 8, 1990. He was survived by a 
