John Graves Simcoe (February 25, 1752 – October 26, 1806) was a British 
army officer and the first Lieutenant Governor of Upper Canada from 1791 
until 1796, in modern-day southern Ontario and the watersheds of Georgian 
Bay and Lake Superior. He founded York (now Toronto) and was instrumental 
in introducing institutions such as courts of law, trial by jury, English 
common law, freehold land tenure, and the abolition of slavery. His long-term 
goal was the development of Upper Canada (Ontario) as a model community 
built on aristocratic and conservative principles, designed to demonstrate 
the superiority of those principles to the Republicanism and democracy 
of the United States. His energetic efforts were only partially successful 
in establishing a local gentry, a thriving Church of England, and an anti-American 
coalition with the Indian tribes. That being said, he is seen by many Canadians—especially 
those in Southern Ontario—as a founding figure in Canadian history and 
as being divergent to the concepts of slavery.[3] He is commemorated in 
Toronto with Simcoe Day. John Graves Simcoe was the only surviving son 
of John (1710-1759) and Katherine Simcoe (d. 1767). His parents had four 
children (Percy drowned 1764; Paulet William and John William died as infants), 
but he was the only one to live past childhood. His father was a captain 
in the Royal Navy who commanded the 60-gun HMS Pembroke, with James Cook 
as his sailing master, during the 1758 siege of Louisbourg. His father 
died of pneumonia on 15 May 1759 on board his ship in the mouth of the 
Saint Lawrence River, a few months prior to the siege of Quebec. The family 
then moved to his mother's parental home in Exeter. His paternal grandparents 
were William and Mary (née Hutchinson) Simcoe. He was educated at Exeter 
Grammar School and Eton College. He spent a year at Merton College, Oxford;[4] 
he was then admitted to Lincoln's Inn, but decided to follow the military 
career for which his father had intended him. He was initiated into Freemasonry 
in Union Lodge, Exeter on November 2, 1773.[5] In 1770, Simcoe entered 
the British Army as an ensign in the 35th Regiment of Foot, and his unit 
was dispatched to the Thirteen Colonies. Later, he saw action in the American 
Revolutionary War during the Siege of Boston. During the siege in July 
1776, he was promoted captain in the 40th Regiment of Foot.[6] He saw action 
with the grenadier company of the 40th Foot in the New York and New Jersey 
campaign and the Philadelphia campaign. Simcoe commanded the 40th at the 
Battle of Brandywine on September 11, 1777, where he was wounded. Legend 
has it that Simcoe ordered his men at Brandywine not to fire upon three 
fleeing rebels, among whom was George Washington.[7] In 1777, Simcoe sought 
to form a Loyalist regiment of free blacks from Boston but instead was 
offered the command of the Queen's Rangers on October 15, 1777. It was 
a well-trained light infantry unit comprising 11 companies of 30 men, 1 
grenadier, and 1 hussar, and the rest light infantry. The Queen's Rangers 
saw extensive action during the Philadelphia campaign, including a successful 
surprise attack (planned and executed by Simcoe) at the Battle of Crooked 
Billet. In 1778, Simcoe commanded the attack on Judge William Hancock's 
house during a foraging expedition opposed by Patriot militia, killing 
ten Americans in their sleep and wounding five others. William Hancock 
was also killed, although he was not with the Americans. The massacre took 
place at night and with bayonets. On June 28 of that year, Simcoe and his 
Queen's Rangers took part in the Battle of Monmouth, in and near Freehold, 
New Jersey. During October 1779, Simcoe and 80 men launched an attack on 
central New Jersey from southern Staten Island known as Simcoe's Raid, 
from what is known today as the Conference House, resulting in the burning 
of Patriot supplies inside a Dutch Reformed Church in Finderne, including 
hay and grain; the release of Loyalist prisoners from the Somerset County 
Courthouse; and Simcoe's capture by Armand Tuffin de La Rouërie.[8][9][10] 
Simcoe was released in 1781 and rejoined his unit in Virginia. He was involved 
in a skirmish near Williamsburg and was at the Siege of Yorktown. He was 
invalided back to England in December of that year as a Lieutenant-Colonel, 
having been promoted in March 1782.[11] Simcoe wrote a book on his experiences 
with the Queen's Rangers, titled A Journal of the Operations of the Queen's 
Rangers from the end of the year 1777 to the conclusion of the late American 
War, which was published in 1787.[12] Simcoe convalesced at the Devon home 
of his godfather, Admiral Samuel Graves. In 1782, Simcoe married Elizabeth 
Posthuma Gwillim, his godfather's ward. Elizabeth was a wealthy heiress, 
who acquired a 5,000 acre estate at Honiton in Devon and built Wolford 
Lodge. Wolford was the Simcoe family seat until 1923.[13] The Simcoes had 
five daughters prior to their posting in Canada. Son Francis was born in 
1791. Their Canadian-born daughter, Katherine, died in infancy in York. 
She is buried in the Victoria Square Memorial Park on Portland Avenue, 
Toronto. Francis returned with his father to England when his tenure expired 
and joined the army. He was killed in an infantry charge during the Peninsular 
Campaign in 1812. Simcoe entered politics in 1790. He was elected Member 
of Parliament for St Mawes in Cornwall, as a supporter of the government 
(led by William Pitt the Younger). As MP, he proposed raising a militia 
force like the Queen's Rangers. He also proposed to lead an invasion of 
Spain. But instead he was to be made lieutenant governor of the new loyalist 
province of Upper Canada.[13] He resigned from Parliament in 1792 on taking 
up his new post. The Constitutional Act 1791 divided Canada into the Provinces 
of Upper Canada (Ontario) and Lower Canada (Quebec). The Act established 
separate governments and legislative assemblies for each province. Lower 
Canada was the French-speaking eastern portion, which retained the French 
code civil and protections for the Roman Catholic Church. Upper Canada 
was the western area, newly settled after the Revolutionary War. The settlers 
were mostly English speakers, including Loyalists from the Thirteen Colonies, 
and also the Six Nations of the Iroquois, who had been British allies during 
the war. The Crown had purchased land from the Mississaugas and other First 
Nations to give the Loyalists land grants in partial compensation for property 
lost in the United States, and to help them set up new communities and 
develop this territory.[14] Simcoe was appointed Lieutenant-Governor on 
12 September 1791, and left for Canada with his wife Elizabeth and daughter 
Sophia, leaving three daughters behind in England with their aunt. They 
left England in September and arrived in Canada on 11 November. Due to 
severe weather, the Simcoes spent the winter in Quebec City. Simcoe finally 
reached Kingston, Upper Canada on 24 June 1792.[13] Under the Constitutional 
Act, the provincial government consisted of the Lieutenant-Governor, an 
appointed Executive Council and Legislative Council, and an elected Legislative 
Assembly. The first meeting of the nine-member Legislative Council and 
sixteen-member Legislative Assembly took place at Newark (now Niagara-on-the-Lake) 
on September 17, 1792. The Assembly passed the first Act Against Slavery 
in the British Empire in 1793, and the English colonists of Upper Canada 
took pride in this distinction with respect to the French-Canadian populace 
of Lower Canada. The Upper Canadians valued their common law legal system, 
as opposed to the code civil of Quebec, which had chafed them ever since 
1763. This was one of the primary reasons for the partition of 1791. Simcoe 
collaborated extensively with his Attorney-General John White on the file. 
The principles of the British Constitution do not admit of that slavery 
which Christianity condemns. The moment I assume the Government of Upper 
Canada under no modification will I assent to a law that discriminates 
by dishonest policy between natives of Africa, America, or Europe. Slavery 
was thus ended in Upper Canada long before it was abolished in the British 
Empire as a whole. By 1810, there were no slaves in Upper Canada, but the 
Crown did not abolish slavery throughout the Empire until 1834. Simcoe's 
first priority was the Northwest Indian War between the United States and 
the "Western Confederacy" of Native Americans west of the Appalachian Mountains 
and south of the Great Lakes (the Shawnee, Miami, Wyandot, and other tribes). 
This conflict had begun in 1785, and was still raging when Simcoe arrived 
in 1792. Simcoe had hoped to form an Indian buffer state between the two 
countries, even though he distrusted Joseph Brant, the main Indian leader. 
Simcoe rejected the section of the Treaty of Paris (1783) which awarded 
that area to the U.S., on the grounds that American actions had nullified 
the treaty.[16] However, the French Revolutionary Wars broke out in 1793. 
The government in London decided to seek good terms with the United States. 
Simcoe was instructed to avoid giving the U.S. reason to mistrust Britain 
but, at the same time, to keep the Native Americans on both sides of the 
border friendly to Britain. The Indians asked for British for military 
support, which was initially refused, but in 1794 Britain supplied the 
Indians with rifles and ammunition.[17] In February 1794, the Governor-in-Chief, 
Lord Dorchester, expecting the U.S. to ally with France, said that war 
was likely to break out between the U.S. and Britain before the year was 
out. This encouraged the Indians in their war. Dorchester ordered Simcoe 
to rally the Indians and arm British vessels on the Great Lakes. He also 
built Fort Miami (present-day Maumee, Ohio) to supply the Indians. Simcoe 
expelled Americans from a settlement on the southern shore of Lake Erie 
which had threatened British control of the lake. U.S. President Washington 
denounced the "irregular and high-handed proceeding of Mr. Simcoe."[18] 
While Dorchester planned for a defensive war, Simcoe urged London to declare 
war: "Upper Canada is not to be defended by remaining within the boundary 
line."[19] Dorchester was officially reprimanded by the Crown for his strong 
speech against the Americans in 1794. Simcoe realized that Newark made 
an unsuitable capital because it was on the Canada–US border and subject 
to attack. He proposed moving the capital to a more defensible position, 
in the middle of Upper Canada's southwestern peninsula between Lake Erie 
and Lake Huron. He named the new location London, and renamed the river 
there the Thames in anticipation of the change. Dorchester rejected this 
proposal, but accepted Simcoe's second choice, the present site of Toronto. 
Simcoe moved the capital there in 1793, and renamed the settlement York 
after Frederick, Duke of York, King George III's second son. The town was 
severely underdeveloped at the time of its founding so he brought with 
him politicians, builders, Nova Scotia timber men, and Englishmen skilled 
in whipsawing and cutting joists and rafters.[20] Simcoe began construction 
of two roads through Upper Canada, for defence and to encourage settlement 
and trade. Yonge Street (named after British Minister of War Sir George 
Yonge) ran north-south from York to Lake Simcoe. Soldiers of the Queen's 
Rangers began cutting the road in August 1793, reaching Holland Landing 
in 1796. Dundas Street (named for Colonial Secretary Henry Dundas) ran 
east-west, between York and London. The Northwest Indian War ended after 
the United States defeated the Indians at the Battle of Fallen Timbers. 
They made peace under the Treaty of Greenville. While still at war with 
France, Britain could not afford to antagonise the U.S. In the Jay Treaty 
of 1794, Britain agreed to withdraw north of the Great Lakes, as agreed 
in the Treaty of Paris (1783). Simcoe evacuated the frontier forts. In 
July 1796 poor health forced Simcoe to return to Britain. He was unable 
to return to Upper Canada and resigned his office in 1798. He served briefly 
as the commander of British forces in Saint-Domingue (later Haiti). There, 
in the spring of 1797, he defended the coastal town of Saint-Marc but lost 
Mirebalais and the Central Plateau to the forces of Toussaint Louverture, 
leader of the slave revolt and by that point commander-in-chief of the 
French Republican forces on the island.[21] This campaign signaled the 
end of the English attempt, in collaboration with planters, to restore 
slavery and other aspects of the ancien regime to take over the rich, sugar-producing 
island while France was involved in internal affairs of its Revolution.[22][23] 
Simcoe was appointed colonel of the 81st Foot in 1798, but exchanged the 
position for the 22nd Foot less than six months later. He was also commander 
of the Western District in Britain. In 1806, he was appointed Commander-in-Chief, 
India (to succeed Cornwallis, who had died shortly after arriving in India.) 
Simcoe died in Exeter before assuming the post. Gerard Lake, 1st Viscount 
Lake, was reappointed to replace Simcoe. Simcoe was buried in Wolford Chapel 
on the Simcoe family estate near Honiton, Devon. The Ontario Heritage Foundation 
acquired title to the chapel in 1982.[24] Many places in Canada were named 
in honour of Simcoe: There are two places named for Simcoe with the title 
Lord, but Simcoe was not made a Lord in his lifetime. They are the following: 
Captain John Kennaway Simcoe, the last member of the Simcoe family, died 
without issue in 1891 and was survived by widow beyond 1911.[1][better 
