John William Henry II (born September 13, 1949) is an American businessman 
and investor. He founded John W. Henry & Company (JWH). He is the principal 
owner of The Boston Globe, Boston Red Sox and Liverpool Football Club, 
and co-owner of Roush Fenway Racing. In March 2006, Boston Magazine estimated 
Henry's net worth at $1.1 billion but noted that his company had recently 
experienced difficulties.[2] In November 2012, the company announced that 
it would stop managing clients' money by the end of the year, and John 
Henry confirmed that total assets under the firm's management had fallen 
from $2.5 billion in 2006 to less than $100 million as of late-2012.[3] 
As of 17 June 2016[update] Forbes estimates his net worth to be US$2.3 
billion.[1] John William Henry II was born on September 13, 1949 in Quincy, 
Illinois. His parents were soybean farmers, and he split his time growing 
up between Illinois and Arkansas. His asthmatic condition[4] at the age 
of 15 prompted his family to move to Apple Valley, California.[5] After 
his graduation from Victor Valley High School in Victorville, he attended 
Victor Valley College,[6] then the University of California (at Riverside, 
Irvine, and Los Angeles), where he majored in philosophy but did not graduate[7] 
— partly the result of performing on the road in two rock and roll bands, 
Elysian Fields and Hillary.[citation needed][8] Henry started trading corn 
and soybean futures to learn the basics of hedging the price risk of holding 
an inventory of these commodities, whether in storage or out in the field. 
In 1976, a commodities broker at Reynolds Securities asked him to advise 
other farmers, but he declined. After spending a summer in Norway with 
his first wife, Mai, Henry developed a mechanical trend following method 
for managing a futures trading account. He tested his trend-reversal method—which 
was never out of the market but always held a position (either long or 
short) in every one of the markets in the account's "basket" of commodities—"using 
his own money" (in the words of his marketing literature of 1983). When 
that test proved successful, he founded JWH in 1981,[9] opened a small 
office across the street from the airport in Irvine, California, and began 
marketing his management to the largest commodity brokerage firms in America. 
That proved so successful by 1983 that he moved to considerably larger 
quarters at Fashion Island in Newport Beach. In 1989, Henry moved to Westport, 
Connecticut. Two years later, Henry established a second office in Boca 
Raton.[10] JWH was established in 1981 and began taking retail clients 
in 1982. The firm's management methods make mechanical, non-discretionary 
trading decisions in response to systematic determinations of reversals 
in each market's direction, with the explicit intention of precluding not 
only human emotion, but also any subjective evaluation of such things as 
the so-called fundamentals, to trigger each decision to be long or short 
each market, or not. On November 9, 2012, John W. Henry & Co., the financial 
trading firm owned by the Red Sox owner, informed clients it would stop 
managing their assets on December 31, 2012.[11] John W. Henry grew up a 
fan of the St. Louis Cardinals, especially their star Stan Musial. After 
acquiring his fortune, his first foray into professional sports was in 
purchasing a AAA minor league team – the Tucson Toros of the Pacific Coast 
League in 1989. He was also one of the founders of the Senior Professional 
Baseball Association (a winter league in Florida composed of retired Major 
League players). Henry co-owned the winning team in 1989–1990 – the West 
Palm Beach Tropics managed by former Boston Red Sox Impossible Dream (1967) 
manager, Dick Williams. He sold his interest in 1990, and the league went 
out of business the following year. In 1990, Henry negotiated to purchase 
the Orlando Magic NBA team, for a short time was the lead general for an 
expansion team which became the Colorado Rockies, headed a group attempting 
to land an NHL expansion bid in Florida - that would eventually be given 
to Phil and Tony Esposito, who created the Tampa Bay Lightning.[12][13] 
Subsequently, Henry negotiated to buy the Miami Heat and later the New 
Jersey Nets. Henry entered Major League Baseball with his purchase of a 
small interest in the New York Yankees in 1991. Henry became the sole owner 
of the Florida Marlins in 1999, purchasing the Major League club from Huizenga 
for a reported $158 million. In January 2002 Henry sold the Marlins in 
a multi-franchise deal to Jeffrey Loria, then owner of the Montreal Expos 
(now the Washington Nationals). Following his sale of the Marlins, Henry 
led a purchase of the Boston Red Sox with partners Tom Werner and the New 
York Times Company from the Yawkey Trust headed by John Harrington. Henry, 
as principal owner and Werner, as chairman, assembled a front office team 
headed up by Larry Lucchino with the express goal of "breaking the Curse 
of the Bambino." He also hired baseball sabermetrics pioneer Bill James, 
whose work became widely known following the publication of Moneyball in 
2003. Henry accomplished his championship goal in the 2004 World Series, 
against his former childhood favorite Cardinals, and again in 2013. He 
also won the World Series in 2007 against a franchise with which he had 
pre-expansion involvement, the Rockies. He is also responsible for saving 
Fenway Park from the wrecking ball. The previous Red Sox owners had planned 
on building a new Fenway Park next door, but Henry chose to keep and renovate 
(including new seats over the Green Monster) the current Fenway Park, which 
celebrated its centennial in 2012. Henry also enjoys playing baseball simulations, 
including Out of the Park Baseball, of which he said: "Last year, I explored 
OOTP 15 and was amazed by the breadth and depth of it."[14] Henry and Werner 
established New England Sports Ventures in 2001. The company owns the Boston 
Red Sox, 80% of the New England Sports Network (which also carries the 
NHL's Boston Bruins), Fenway Park, Fenway Sports Management (a sports marketing 
and management firm), various real estate properties surrounding Fenway 
Park, and as of 2010, Liverpool Football Club In 2009, the company made 
its first foray into European sports with an unsuccessful bid for the French 
Ligue 1 club Olympique de Marseille.[15] In 2010, New England Sports Ventures 
changed its name to Fenway Sports Group. In October 2010 the Fenway Sports 
Group took over Liverpool F.C. As of May 2011, Tom Hicks and George N. 
Gillett, Jr. announced that they would sue for at least $1.6 billion for 
the "extraordinary swindle" they suffered.[16] On February 26, 2012 Liverpool 
won the 2012 Football League Cup Final at Wembley Stadium, beating Cardiff 
City 3–2 on penalties after the game finished 1–1 after 90 minutes and 
2–2 after extra time. This was Liverpool's first trophy since the 2006 
FA Cup Final win over West Ham United on May 13, 2006 at the Millennium 
Stadium in Cardiff. In May 2012 he made a controversial decision by firing 
manager and club icon Kenny Dalglish citing the club's poor league results. 
This was regarded as a poor decision by some football pundits such as Dalglish's 
friend Alan Hansen, given Dalglish's success in lifting the club from four 
points above the relegation zone to a cup win.[17][18] In July 2012, after 
successfully persuading Brendan Rodgers to become the new manager,[19] 
John Henry stated the reason behind parting company with Dalglish had not 
been due to failing to win the FA Cup, nor the Suarez case (as assumed 
by Manchester United manager, Sir Alex Ferguson[20]), but due to the club's 
poor league performance in the second half of the 2011-12 season.[21] Despite 
almost taking Liverpool to their first Premier League title in over 20 
years during the 13-14 season, poor performance in the subsequent season 
saw Henry sack Brendan Rodgers as Liverpool manager on October 4, 2015.[22] 
On October 8, 2015, Henry appointed Jurgen Klopp as the new manager of 
Liverpool F.C.[23] The move was praised by Liverpool supporters and seen 
as a show of Henry's ambition for the club.[24] In 2007, Henry's Fenway 
Sports Group bought a 50% stake in Jack Roush's Roush Fenway Racing stock 
car racing team.[25] Driver Matt Kenseth won the Auto Club 500 at the California 
Speedway in February 2007 marking Henry's first win as an owner. In February 
2009 the team won their first Daytona 500 with Matt Kenseth. Henry is currently 
listed as the owner of the #17 Ford driven by Sprint Cup driver Ricky Stenhouse, 
Jr.. In September 2004 Henry and David Kaemmer founded iRacing.com Motorsport 
Simulations for developing a racing simulation service aimed at both real-world 
racers and racing simulator enthusiasts. The service was launched in August 
2008. In the predawn hours of Saturday, August 3, 2013, both The Boston 
Globe and The New York Times carried stories on their web sites reporting 
that Henry had agreed to purchase The Globe, the Worcester [Mass.] Telegram 
& Gazette and related New England media properties for $70 million in cash. 
The Globe's story described Henry as "a personally shy businessman with 
a history of bold bets." The Times story quoted Times spokesperson Eileen 
Murphy as confirming the sale deal. Both stories included a statement from 
Henry: "The Boston Globe's award-winning journalism as well as its rich 
history and tradition of excellence have established it as one of the most 
well-respected media companies in the country." In the reported statement, 
Henry cited "the essential role that its journalists and employees play 
in Boston, throughout New England, and beyond." The stories noted that 
Henry had initially been among a group of partners who had joined in bidding 
on The Globe properties, but ended up agreeing to acquire them individually. 
However,The Times story reported him saying: "In coming days there will 
be announcements concerning those joining me in this community commitment 
and effort." At the time of the purchase, a conservative San Diego media 
mogul alleged that he outbid Henry for The Globe and that the management 
of The New York Times did not accept his offer because they preferred to 
sell to someone who would continue the "liberal" editorial slant of The 
Globe.[26] Henry was briefly portrayed by Arliss Howard in the 2011 film 
Moneyball which follows Oakland Athletics general manager Billy Beane and 
his quest to build a winning team in 2002. Towards the end of the film, 
Beane travels to Boston's Fenway Park where he meets with Henry, who wants 
Beane to become the new GM of the Red Sox. The film notes that Beane turned 
down a five-year, $12.5 million contract with Boston and returned to Oakland, 
but adds that the Red Sox, despite failing to hire Beane, did implement 
many of his "Moneyball" ideas and would go on to win the 2004 World Series, 
