John Henry Hart (born July 21, 1948) is an American Major League Baseball 
executive. In addition, he is the former general manager of the Cleveland 
Indians and Texas Rangers; he currently serves as President of Baseball 
Operations for the Atlanta Braves. He also served as the interim manager 
of the Indians in 1989, and a studio analyst for the MLB Network. Hart 
was born in Tampa, Florida. He attended Seminole Junior College where he 
was catcher on the baseball team. In 1969 he won All-American honors and 
began his professional career as a catcher in the Montreal Expos organization. 
He caught with them for three seasons before leaving the organization and 
returning to Florida. He graduated in 1973 from the University of Central 
Florida with majors in history and physical education. Hart then coached 
high school baseball in the Orlando, Florida area before joining the Orioles 
organization in 1982 as a minor league manager. He managed in their minor 
league organization for six seasons before joining the major league team 
as third base coach in 1988.[1] In 1989, John Hart joined the Cleveland 
Indians as a special assignment scout, but then replaced Doc Edwards as 
manager for the final 19 games of the regular season (the team put up an 
8-11 record during those games). For the next two seasons, Hart served 
as Director of Baseball Operations for the club.[1] In September 1991, 
John Hart replaced Hank Peters as general manager and executive vice president 
of the Indians. During the next 10 years, the Indians were 870-681 under 
Hart. They won six of the seven possible American League Central division 
titles, which was introduced for the 1994 strike shortened season (1995–99 
and 2001) with appearances in the World Series in 1995 and 1997. Hart built 
the team's core through the draft, successful scouting and trades. He signed 
young players before the arbitration process got underway and thus enticed 
veteran players to stay with the team.[2] Since Hart's departure from the 
organization in 2001, the Indians have appeared in only two postseasons. 
At the beginning of the 2001 season, Hart announced that it would be his 
last season as general manager of the Indians. After the season, Hart stayed 
true to his word and Assistant GM Mark Shapiro took over as general manager 
on November 1. But rather than take another position with the club, or 
retire, Hart instead took the general manager position that had opened 
up with the Texas Rangers after the departure of Doug Melvin. On July 21, 
2004 the Rangers announced a contract extension for Hart for a guaranteed 
two more years and an annual mutual option to extend the contract each 
year thereafter. In addition, the contract stipulated that once it was 
terminated by either side, it automatically converted to a five-year agreement 
for Hart to serve as senior advisor to the owner. Just over a year after 
agreeing to the extension, John Hart stepped down as general manager of 
the Texas Rangers on October 4, 2005 and was replaced by Jon Daniels. During 
his four years with the Rangers, the team compiled a record of 311–337, 
never advancing to the playoffs. After Hart garnered interest for the general 
manager position on other teams in the 2005 off-season, the Rangers extended 
his senior advisor contract for three more years, through the 2013 season, 
in exchange for Hart refusing to consider any other GM positions. Soon 
after his Rangers contract expired, the Atlanta Braves announced that Hart 
had signed with the organization as senior advisor for baseball operations, 
similar to the position Hart held with the Rangers. Hart and long-time 
Braves executive John Schuerholz had been friends since long before the 
Braves and Indians met in the 1995 World Series.[3] On September 22, 2014, 
Hart was named as the Braves interim general manager after the Braves released 
general manager Frank Wren.[4][5] On October 23, 2014, Hart was hired as 
President of Baseball Operations for the Atlanta Braves.[6] Hart and his 
