John Tomlinson Brush (June 15, 1845 – November 26, 1912) was an American 
sports executive who is primarily remembered as the owner of the New York 
Giants Major League Baseball franchise from 1890 until his death. He also 
owned the Indianapolis Hoosiers in the late 1880s, and the Cincinnati Reds 
from 1891 to 1902. Under his leadership, the Giants were revived as a franchise 
after a decline during the 1890s. Brush was also a leader in the formation 
of the rules that govern the modern World Series. He was one of 11 executives 
honored by the Baseball Hall of Fame on a Roll of Honor in 1946. Born in 
Clintonville, New York, Brush was orphaned at age 4 and was raised by his 
grandfather until he left to enter business college at age 17. During the 
Civil War he enlisted in the First New York Artillery in 1863, and after 
the war's end he went into business running clothing stores in Albany, 
Troy and Lockport, New York. He moved to Indianapolis in 1875, eventually 
opening a department store, and became involved in local baseball as a 
means of promoting his store. He built a ballpark in 1882, and it became 
home to the Indianapolis Hoosiers of the American Association for their 
only major league season in 1884; they played in the Western League before 
that circuit folded after the 1885 campaign. When the National League put 
the St. Louis Maroons franchise up for sale after the 1886 season, Brush 
bought it and relocated the team to Indianapolis. He renovated his ballpark, 
adding a special celebrity box which attracted such figures as President 
Benjamin Harrison, poet James Whitcomb Riley, and future novelist Booth 
Tarkington. In 1888 he offered a tryout to Bud Fowler, but ultimately decided 
not to challenge the sport's color line. Brush also devised a salary scale 
system which was designed to curtail player salaries, a move which helped 
contribute to the breakaway Players' League in 1890. When the Indianapolis 
team folded after the 1889 season, Brush was compensated with $67,000 and 
a share of the Giants franchise, along with a promise of the next available 
team; he quickly acquired the Reds club after its financial collapse during 
the three-league competition of 1890. Instead of relocating, he kept the 
team in Cincinnati, and survived a challenge from a short-lived American 
Association competitor, the Cincinnati Kelly's Killers. Brush frequently 
was at odds with sportswriter Ban Johnson of the city's Commercial Gazette, 
and in an attempt to reduce the writer's local influence he helped Johnson 
become president of the new Western League – a move which eventually backfired 
when the league achieved major status as the American League in 1901, with 
Johnson remaining as president. As chairman of the NL's executive committee, 
Brush took a lead role in combating the AL, joining with Giants majority 
owner Andrew Freedman to sabotage the AL's Baltimore club by offering the 
managing jobs of the New York and Cincinnati teams to John McGraw and Joe 
Kelley respectively; Baltimore was forced to relocate to New York after 
1902, eventually becoming the New York Yankees. The acrimony also contributed 
to controversy in the selection of a new NL president in 1902, as the Giants 
supported incumbent president Nicholas Young against Albert Spalding, who 
favored better relations with the AL; in the deadlock, both candidates 
were forced to withdraw, with Harry Pulliam being selected as a compromise 
choice. Freedman left baseball shortly thereafter, with Brush taking over 
as majority owner and team president, selling his interest in the Reds 
for $180,000 to a group headed by Garry Herrmann. When the Giants won the 
1904 NL pennant, Brush refused to allow the team to meet Boston's defending 
champions in the World Series due to his animosity toward Johnson; a permanent 
agreement between the leagues was eventually made after meeting some of 
Brush's conditions, and the Giants won the 1905 World Series against the 
Philadelphia Athletics. Brush's health deteriorated quickly after becoming 
majority owner in 1902, as he suffered from locomotor ataxia, a nervous 
system affliction, as well as rheumatism. The Giants won another pennant 
in 1911, the same year in which he oversaw the reconstruction of the Polo 
Grounds. Brush attended World Series games as the team again advanced in 
1912, but his failing health was apparent, particularly in the aftermath 
of an auto accident that September 11 in which his car was struck by a 
truck and overturned, causing two broken ribs. After the Series he left 
by train to recuperate in California, but died in his private car near 
Louisiana, Missouri; his car was detached and rerouted to St. Louis, and 
his body was returned to Indianapolis. His funeral was held at St. Paul's 
Episcopal Church, with accompanying Masonic rites. He was succeeded as 
Giants president by his son-in-law, Harry Hempstead. In 1913, the Giants 
organization constructed a stairway from the ticket booths on Coogan's 
Bluff to the Polo Grounds below, and presented it to the City of New York 
in honor of its late owner. The John T. Brush Stairway still stands,[1] 
