John Thomas Tudor (born February 2, 1954) is a former left-handed starting 
pitcher in Major League Baseball. Although born in upstate New York he 
was raised in Peabody, Massachusetts and attended the city's Peabody High 
School. Tudor was drafted by the Boston Red Sox in the third round of the 
1976 MLB draft (secondary phase) from Georgia Southern University. Tudor 
debuted with the Red Sox on August 16, 1979. He spent some time in the 
minors in 1980 and was used as both a starter and reliever in 1981. He 
finally established himself as a member of the rotation in 1982, going 
13-10 with a 3.63 ERA. After finishing 13-12 the following season, Tudor 
was traded to the Pittsburgh Pirates for designated hitter Mike Easler. 
After one year in Pittsburgh, in which he was 12-11 with a 3.27 ERA, he 
was sent to St. Louis as part of a deal for veteran outfielder George Hendrick. 
The Pirates received a career minor leaguer in the deal and sent catcher 
Brian Harper to the Cardinals. Tudor's highlight was a spectacular 1985 
season for the St. Louis Cardinals. Oddly enough, Tudor started that year 
with a 1-7 record and a 3.74 earned run average through May. He then went 
on a tear that has rarely been seen since by going 20-1 with a 1.37 ERA 
the rest of the season and lowering his overall ERA to 1.93. Tudor concluded 
the season by winning his last eleven decisions. Only the best season of 
Dwight Gooden's career stopped Tudor from winning the National League Cy 
Young Award and leading the league in ERA, wins and complete games. He 
was sixth in strikeouts for the year. Moreover, Tudor's ten complete game 
shutouts in 1985 made him the only pitcher since Jim Palmer in 1975 to 
reach double-digits in that category. (Bob Gibson holds the Cardinal record 
with 13 in 1968). To make the achievement more impressive, his ten shutouts 
were all in the last four months of 1985. To date, Tudor is the last Major 
League player to record ten or more shutouts in a season. The most since 
then is eight, by Boston pitcher Roger Clemens in 1988, his 5th season 
in the majors. The Cardinals were in the heat of a division race against 
Gooden and the New York Mets in September 1985. Tudor improved even more 
by starting the month with two consecutive shutouts and then pitched against 
Gooden himself in a legendary matchup on September 11. Gooden and Tudor 
locked horns pitch-for-pitch and the score was 0-0 after nine innings. 
Jesse Orosco took over for Gooden in the tenth inning and gave up a home 
run. Tudor came back out in the bottom of the inning and finished the three-hit, 
ten-inning masterpiece for his third consecutive shutout of the month. 
After two sub-par performances, he pitched his fourth shutout of the month 
and then pitched another ten innings of shutout ball against the Mets' 
Ron Darling but the Mets turned the table and beat the Cardinals' bullpen 
in the eleventh inning. Tudor's pitching propelled the Cardinals into the 
playoffs. He lost Game 1 of the National League Championship Series against 
the Los Angeles Dodgers but won Game 4 to even the series and St. Louis 
won 4 games to 2. Tudor was masterful in Game 1 of the 1985 World Series 
and even better with a shutout in Game 4 but completely fell apart in Game 
7 leaving in the third inning as the Kansas City Royals rolled to an 11-0 
victory for their first World Championship. Tudor was so upset by his performance 
in Game 7 that in a post-game tantrum he cut his pitching hand after punching 
an electrical fan. Tudor never matched his dominance of 1985. While still 
posting low ERAs, he never won more than 13 games. In 1987, he was again 
in the World Series but again lost with a chance to win the World Series. 
Injuries limited Tudor's playing time after 1985 and eventually ended his 
career. He was the victim of a freak accident in 1987 when the Mets' catcher 
Barry Lyons went into the Cardinals' dugout trying to catch a foul ball 
and crashed into Tudor (who wasn't even pitching in the game) breaking 
Tudor's leg. In 1988, Tudor was traded to the Dodgers despite having the 
league's best ERA. He pitched well again and won his only World Series 
ring for the 1988 World Series, but severely injured his elbow during the 
postseason. That injury caused him to miss almost all of 1989 and then 
