As manager John Joseph Keane (November 3, 1911 — January 6, 1967) was an 
American manager in Major League Baseball. Keane participated in one of 
the strangest turns of events in baseball history in 1964, his final season 
at the helm of the St. Louis Cardinals. Keane never played in the Major 
Leagues. He was a shortstop in the Cardinals' minor league system but suffered 
a head injury after being hit by a pitch. He began his managing career 
in 1938 in the Cardinals' organization, working his way from Class D (then 
the lowest rung on the ladder) to Triple-A, where he spent a decade as 
manager of top St. Louis farm clubs. His career win-loss record as a manager 
in the minor leagues was 1,357–1,166 (.538) over 17 seasons. Keane finally 
reached the Major Leagues in 1959, when he was appointed to the Cardinal 
coaching staff. He replaced Solly Hemus as manager on July 6, 1961. In 
his 3½ seasons as Cardinal pilot, he compiled a record of 317–249 (.560) 
and his crucial, positive role in mentoring young Cardinal players, especially 
star pitcher Bob Gibson, is chronicled in the David Halberstam book October 
1964. In August 1964, with Cardinals seemingly out of the race, team owner 
August "Gussie" Busch became convinced (possibly by Branch Rickey, whom 
he had hired as a consultant) that only a thorough housecleaning of Cardinal 
management would bring him the pennant he had craved since he bought the 
team in 1953. On August 17, he fired (or accepted the resignations of) 
almost every senior St. Louis front office executive. Keane was temporarily 
spared, but Busch was rumored to be secretly negotiating with Leo Durocher 
(then a coach for the Los Angeles Dodgers) to become manager at the close 
of the 1964 season. However, in the last two weeks of the season, the front-running 
Philadelphia Phillies — who had seemed a lock for the pennant — unexpectedly 
began to unravel while both the Cardinals and Cincinnati Reds got hot. 
The Phillies lost ten straight games, creating a four-team scramble for 
the National League pennant, involving the Phils, Cards, Reds and San Francisco 
Giants. Philadelphia came to St. Louis after losing seven straight at home 
and were swept by the Cardinals, who moved into first place. After losing 
the next two games to the lowly New York Mets, St. Louis won their final 
game to clinch their first NL pennant since 1946. The Cardinals then defeated 
the New York Yankees in a seven-game World Series. Shortly after winning 
the World Series the Cardinals held a press conference. Most expected that 
the team would formally announce a contract extension for Keane. Instead, 
Keane handed owner Busch and new general manager Bob Howsam (Bing Devine 
had been fired as GM on August 17) a surprise letter of resignation that 
he had written late in September, at the height of the pennant chase. The 
Cardinals then bypassed Durocher entirely and instead hired longtime fan 
favorite Red Schoendienst, a Baseball Hall of Fame second baseman and one 
of Keane's coaches, as the club's new manager. Shortly after his resignation, 
Keane became the surprise new manager of the Yankees, who fired Yogi Berra 
after losing to the Cardinals in the World Series. It was later revealed 
that the Yankees had made an informal inquiry about Keane's interest in 
the job during the 1964 season.[1] The Keane-Yankees pairing was not a 
good match. While the Yankees were coming off five straight American League 
pennants and 15 league championships in 18 years, the 1965 Yankees were 
on a downhill slide. The circumstances of Keane's hiring caused a significant 
credibility gap with the players, and his aloof, distant manner did little 
to help. Keane's first team finished in sixth place, their first losing 
season in 40 years. When the 1966 version won only four of their first 
20 games, Keane became the first Yankee manager to be fired in midseason 
since 1910. He was replaced by Ralph Houk, the team's general manager, 
who had coached for and managed the team from 1961 to 1963. The Yankees 
did not respond to Houk either, finishing in last place, the first time 
they did so since 1912. Keane's 81–101 (.445) record with New York gave 
him a career managerial mark of 398–350 (.532) over six seasons. Keane 
is described in Jim Bouton's Ball Four as being prone to panic, and someone 
who was "willing to sacrifice a season to win a game" by putting injured 
stars into the lineup before their injuries had fully healed. Bouton tells 
a humorous anecdote of Keane pressuring Mickey Mantle to play on a bad 
leg. But in Keane's defense, Bouton also noted that general manager Houk 
and the team unfairly used Keane as the excuse for their losing records 
in 1965 and 1966, which were actually the result of an aging team with 
a depleted farm system. In December 1966, Keane accepted a scouting post 
with the California Angels. He suffered a fatal heart attack one month 
later in Houston, Texas, at the age of 55. Keane had lived in Houston since 
his days as player and (later) manager for the Cardinals' longtime Texas 
League farm team, the Houston Buffaloes.[2] In Bouton's book, I Managed 
Good, But Boy Did They Play Bad, a collection of essays and stories about 
past Major League managers, he wrote that Keane seemed to be in awe of 
the Yankees, and that he underestimated the problems the team faced. Bouton 
felt that the immense pressure and stress of managing the Yankees through 
