John Cowan Hartford (December 30, 1937 – June 4, 2001) was an American 
folk, country and bluegrass composer and musician known for his mastery 
of the fiddle and banjo, as well as for his witty lyrics, unique vocal 
style, and extensive knowledge of Mississippi River lore. Hartford performed 
with a variety of ensembles throughout his career, and is perhaps best 
known for his solo performances where he would interchange the guitar, 
banjo, and fiddle from song to song. He also invented his own shuffle tap 
dance move, and clogged on an amplified piece of plywood while he played 
and sang. John Hartford was the great-great-great-grandson of Karl von 
Rotteck and the great-great-grandson of James Overton Broadhead. His grandfather, 
Edwin Marvin Hartford, was a first cousin to Tennessee Williams. Harford 
(he would change his name to Hartford later in life at the behest of Chet 
Atkins)[1] was born on December 30, 1937 in New York City to parents Dr. 
Carl and Mary Harford. He spent his childhood in St. Louis, Missouri. There 
he was exposed to the influence that would shape much of his career and 
music—the Mississippi River. From the time he got his first job on the 
river, at age 16, Hartford was on, around, or singing about the river. 
His early musical influences came from the broadcasts of the Grand Ole 
Opry in Nashville, and included Earl Scruggs, nominal inventor of the three-finger 
bluegrass style of banjo playing. Hartford said often that the first time 
he heard Earl Scruggs pick the banjo changed his life. By age 13, Hartford 
was an accomplished old-time fiddler and banjo player, and he soon learned 
to play guitar and mandolin as well. Hartford formed his first bluegrass 
band while still in high school at John Burroughs School. After high school 
he enrolled at Washington University in St. Louis, completed 4 years of 
a commercial arts program and dropped out to focus on his music; however, 
he did later receive a degree in 1960. He immersed himself in the local 
music scene, working as a DJ, playing in bands, and occasionally recording 
singles for local labels. In 1965, he moved to Nashville, the center of 
the country music industry. In 1966, he signed with RCA Victor and produced 
his first album, Looks at Life, in the same year.[2] In 1967, Hartford's 
second album Earthwords & Music spawned his first major songwriting hit, 
"Gentle On My Mind". His recording of the song was only a modest success, 
but it caught the notice of Glen Campbell, who recorded his own version, 
which gave the song much wider publication. At the 1968 Grammys, the song 
netted four awards, two of which went to Hartford. It became one of the 
most widely recorded country songs of all time, and the royalties it brought 
in allowed Hartford great financial independence; Hartford would later 
say that the song bought his freedom.[3] As his popularity grew, he moved 
to the West Coast, where he became a regular on the Smothers Brothers Comedy 
Hour; other television appearances followed, as did recording appearances 
with several major country artists. Hartford played banjo and sang the 
vocal harmonies on the Guthrie Thomas song, "I'll be Lucky". He also played 
with The Byrds on their album Sweetheart of the Rodeo. His success on the 
Smothers Brothers series was enough that Hartford was offered the lead 
role in a TV detective series but he turned it down to move back to Nashville 
and concentrate on his music. He also was a regular on The Glen Campbell 
Goodtime Hour[1] (the banjo picker who would stand up from his seat in 
the audience to begin the theme music) and The Johnny Cash Show. In live 
performances, John Hartford was a true "one-man band"; he utilized not 
only a multitude of stringed instruments, but also a variety of props such 
as plywood squares and boards with sand and gravel on which to stomp, kick, 
and scrape to create natural and organic background noises. During the 
years 1968-1970, Hartford recorded four more albums for RCA: The Love Album, 
Housing Project, John Hartford, and Iron Mountain Depot. In 1971, he moved 
over to Warner Bros. Records, where he was given more freedom to record 
in his untraditional style. There, fronting a band that included Vassar 
Clements, Tut Taylor and Norman Blake, he recorded several extraordinary 
albums that set the tone of his later career, including the acclaimed Aereo-Plain 
and Morning Bugle. Of the former, Sam Bush said "Without Aereo-Plain (and 
the Aereo-Plain band), there would be no newgrass music."[3] Switching 
several years later to the Flying Fish label, Hartford continued to participate 
in the experimentation with nontraditional country and bluegrass styles 
that he and artists such as Bush were engaging in at the time. Among his 
recordings were two albums in 1977 and 1980 with Doug and Rodney Dillard 
from The Dillards, with Bush as a backing musician, and featuring a diversity 
of songs that included "Boogie On Reggae Woman" and "Yakety Yak".[4] Hartford's 
Grammy-winning Mark Twang features Hartford playing solo, reminiscent of 
his live solo performances playing the fiddle, guitar, banjo, and amplified 
plywood for tapping his feet. At the same time, he developed a stage show, 
which toured in various forms from the mid-1970s until shortly before his 
death.[1] Hartford went on to change labels several more times during his 
career; in 1991, he inaugurated his own Small Dog a'Barkin' label. Later 
in the 1990s, he switched again, to the Rounder label. On that label and 
a number of smaller labels, he recorded a number of idiosyncratic records, 
many of which harkened back to earlier forms of folk and country music. 
Among them was the 1999 album, Retrograss, recorded with Mike Seeger and 
David Grisman, offering bluegrass takes on such songs as "(Sittin' on) 
the Dock of the Bay", "Maybellene", "When I'm Sixty-Four" and "Maggie's 
Farm". He recorded several songs for the soundtrack to the movie O Brother, 
Where Art Thou, winning another Grammy for his performance, and made his 
final tour in 2001 with the Down from the Mountain tour that grew out of 
that movie and its accompanying album. While performing in Texas in April 
that year, he found he could no longer control his hands due to non-Hodgkin 
Lymphoma, and his career was finished. Though Hartford is considered a 
co-founder in the newgrass movement, he remained deeply attached to traditional 
music as well. His last band and last few albums reflect his love for pre-bluegrass 
old-time music. According to an interview with Don Swain, he described 
his love for the rare and nearly forgotten fiddle tunes of the Appalachians 
and Missouri foothills. The culture of the Mississippi River and its steamboats 
captivated Hartford from an early age. He said that it would have been 
his life's work "but music got in the way", so he intertwined them whenever 
possible. In the 70s, Hartford earned his steamboat pilot's license, which 
he used to keep close to the river he loved; for many years, he worked 
as a pilot on the steamboat Julia Belle Swain during the summers. He also 
worked as a towboat pilot on the Mississippi, Illinois, and Tennessee rivers. 
During his later years, he came back to the river every summer. "Working 
as a pilot is a labor of love", he said. "After a while, it becomes a metaphor 
for a whole lot of things, and I find for some mysterious reason that if 
I stay in touch with it, things seem to work out all right". His home in 
Madison, Tennessee, was situated on a bend of the Cumberland River and 
built to simulate the view from a steamboat deck. He used to talk to the 
boat captains by radio as their barges crawled along the river. That bend 
of the Cumberland River, known as "Hartford's Bend" or "John Hartford Point,"[5] 
is denoted on official navigational charts with the "John Hartford Light".[6] 
An accomplished fiddler and banjo player, Hartford was simultaneously an 
innovative voice on the country scene and a reminder of a vanished era. 
Along with his own compositions, such as Long Hot Summer Days and Kentucky 
Pool, Hartford was a repository of old river songs, calls, and stories. 
Hartford was also the author of Steamboat in a Cornfield, a children's 
book that recounts the true story of the Ohio River steamboat The Virginia 
and its beaching in a cornfield. From the 1980s onwards, Hartford had Non-Hodgkin 
lymphoma. On June 4, 2001, he died of the disease at Centennial Medical 
Center in Nashville, Tennessee. He was 63.[7] Prior to his death, Hartford 
co-authored with Brandon Ray Kirk a biography of the blind fiddler Ed Haley. 
Hartford's album The Speed of the Old Longbow is a collection of Haley's 
tunes. Hartford also provided narration for the Ken Burns' documentary 
series Baseball[8] and The Civil War.[9] Hartford was given a star on the 
St. Louis Walk of Fame.[10] In honor of his work, he was given a posthumous 
Presidents Award by the Americana Music Association in September 2005.[11] 
The annual John Hartford Memorial Festival[12] is held at the Bill Monroe 
Music Park & Campground[13] near Beanblossom, Indiana. Hartford recorded 
more than 30 albums, ranging across a broad spectrum of styles—from the 
traditional country of his early RCA recordings, to the new and experimental 
sound of his early newgrass recordings, to the traditional folk style to 
which he often returned later in his life. Hartford's albums also vary 
widely in formality, from the stately and orderly Annual Waltz to the rougher 
and less cut recordings that typified many of his later albums. Aereo-Plain 
and Morning Bugle are often considered to be Hartford's most influential 
work, coming as they did at the very beginning of a period in which artists 
such as Hartford and the New Grass Revival, led by Sam Bush, would create 
a new form of country music, blending their country backgrounds with influences 
from a number of other sources. His later years saw a number of live albums, 
as well as recordings that explored the repertoire of old-time folk music. 
He sketched the cover art for some of his mid-career albums, drawing with 
