As Manager John Francis McNamara (born June 4, 1932 in Sacramento, California) 
is a former manager and coach in Major League Baseball. He managed six 
major league teams, directing the 1986 Boston Red Sox to the American League 
pennant, only to experience defeat in that season's World Series at the 
hands of the New York Mets. McNamara attended Christian Brothers High School 
and Sacramento City College, where he led the team to the 1951 California 
state championship (and later was inducted to the SCC Athletic Hall of 
Fame). A right-handed batter and thrower, he was a peripatetic minor league 
catcher during his playing career, originally signing with the St. Louis 
Cardinals organization. He began his managing career with the Lewis-Clark 
Broncs in Lewiston, Idaho, of the Northwest League in 1959, and when the 
club became an affiliate of the Kansas City Athletics in 1960, McNamara 
joined the A's system. He won Southern League pennants in 1966 and 1967 
and groomed many future members of the Oakland dynasty during his tenure 
at the Double-A level. McNamara managed the Oakland Athletics (1969–70), 
San Diego Padres (1974 through the midseason of 1977), Cincinnati Reds 
(1979 through the midseason of 1982), California Angels (1983–84 and part 
of 1996), Red Sox (1985 through the midseason of 1988), and Cleveland Indians 
(1990 through the midseason of 1991). Over all or parts of 19 seasons, 
he had a managing record of 1,167–1,242 (.484).[1] His 1979 Cincinnati 
team, defeated by the Pittsburgh Pirates in the NLCS, was his only other 
postseason entry. Although McNamara's 1981 Reds compiled the best overall 
record in the National League West (66–42, .611), the split-season format 
adopted because of the 1981 Major League Baseball strike denied Cincinnati 
a place in the playoffs because the Reds finished second (to the Los Angeles 
Dodgers, then to the Houston Astros) in each half-season. McNamara served 
as a major league coach for Oakland (1968–69), the San Francisco Giants 
(1971–73), and the Angels (1978). He also has worked as a catching instructor 
with the Angels. McNamara's managerial tactics during the 1986 World Series 
(especially in the last two games) received much criticism and scrutiny. 
In the pivotal sixth game, McNamara removed Red Sox ace Roger Clemens in 
the eighth inning despite the fact that Clemens was still pitching well. 
Both parties have different stories regarding Clemens's departure. According 
to Clemens, he did not want to leave the game, but McNamara insisted that 
Clemens asked to be taken out because he had a blister on his pitching 
hand. McNamara was also criticized for pinch-hitting Clemens with rookie 
Mike Greenwell, who struck out on three pitches, when veteran slugger Don 
Baylor was also available. McNamara's move was further questioned in light 
of the relatively poor performances of closer Calvin Schiraldi and longtime 
reliever Bob Stanley, especially considering that he brought Schiraldi 
into the game for what was supposed to be a two-inning save and left him 
in the game for the first two outs of the tenth after he blew the save.[2] 
Yet, perhaps the decision that McNamara will be most remembered for is 
his leaving first baseman Bill Buckner in the game in the 10th inning rather 
than removing him for a defensive substitute. McNamara was ridiculed for 
years afterward for leaving Buckner on the field instead of replacing him 
with Dave Stapleton, who had previously been used to replace Buckner in 
late innings for defensive purposes (including Games 1 and 5 of the World 
Series).[2] He later said, "I felt Buckner deserved to be on the field 
when we won." [3] The Red Sox players also believed that their manager 
let sentiment overpower his judgement. Stapleton claimed that "[McNamara] 
damn well knows that he messed up. And he very well could have cost us 
the World Series that year."[4] McNamara finally responded to Stapleton's 
attack in 2011 during an interview with Bob Costas for MLB Network, reneging 
on his original claim that sentiment was what caused him to keep Buckner 
in the game and saying that Stapleton had the nickname of "Shaky" because 
of his poor defense.[5] With Game 7 delayed a day due to rain in New York, 
McNamara bumped originally-scheduled starting pitcher Oil Can Boyd in favor 
of starting Bruce Hurst, the winner of Games 1 and 5 and the presumptive 
MVP of the series if the Red Sox were to win, on three days' rest; the 
Red Sox had chosen to go with a normal four-man rotation during the series, 
unlike the Mets who pitched a three-man rotation. The decision upset Boyd 
so much that he began drinking heavily afterward and drank himself to the 
point of intoxication, according to accounts given by McNamara and his 
pitching coach Bill Fischer, thus rendering him unavailable.[6] Hurst was 
staked to a 3-0 lead and pitched shutout ball for five innings, but tired 
in the sixth allowing the Mets to score three runs to tie the game. Since 
Boyd's actions had left the bullpen shortstaffed in a situation where every 
pitcher able would need to be available in case of an emergency, McNamara 
decided to bring Calvin Schiraldi in despite his struggles in Game 6 and 
the fact that he was still tired from pitching 2.2 innings that night (something 
he wasn't used to). Schiraldi gave up a tie-breaking home run to Ray Knight, 
the first batter he faced, and ended up surrendering three runs while recording 
only a single out. The Red Sox would lose the game 8-5, thus losing the 
