As player As manager John Gransfield Kling (February 25, 1875 – January 
31, 1947) was an American catcher and manager in Major League Baseball 
for the Chicago Cubs (the Chicago Orphans until 1902), Boston Rustlers 
and Boston Braves, and Cincinnati Reds. Kling was the Cubs' starting catcher 
in the final game of the 1908 World Series. Kling was born and raised in 
Kansas City, Missouri, the son of John (a German American baker) and Caroline 
Kling. It was expected that he would work in the bakery business, as his 
brother Charles seems to have done, but Johnny fell in love with baseball. 
By the age of fifteen, he was playing amateur ball.[1] He also had an interest 
in pool, and began playing competitively even as he pursued a baseball 
career ("Match Game of Pool", 1897, 3). In late January 1904, Kling married 
Lillian May Gradwohl. While Kling was not born Jewish, his wife was, and 
they were married by a Kansas City Rabbi Harry H. Mayer, of Temple B'Nai 
Jehudah, a Reform congregation.[2] After playing amateur and semi-pro baseball, 
Kling finally made his major league debut on September 11, 1900,[3] playing 
for the Chicago Orphans of the National League. He got three hits, and 
made a positive impression both as a catcher and as a hitter. For what 
was left of the season, he caught fifteen games and had a batting average 
of .294[4] He also acquired the nickname "Noisy John", because he kept 
up a constant chatter on the field; some baseball historians have noted 
this was part of his skill in waging "psychological warfare" on his opponents.[1] 
By all accounts he was an exceptional defensive catcher, praised for his 
skill in throwing out runners who were caught stealing. He was also a reliable 
hitter, and a pivotal member of the team that became known as the Chicago 
Cubs, an integral part of the dynasty which included Hall of Fame infielders 
Joe Tinker, Johnny Evers and Frank Chance. Between 1906 and 1910, the Cubs 
won four National League pennants and two World Series titles, and Kling 
was said to be one of the reasons why. And unlike many ballplayers of his 
day, he didn't smoke, drink or chew tobacco. Staying in good shape as a 
result was said to contribute to his baseball success.[5] Overall, he played 
1260 major league games, hit .271 with 20 home runs and 513 RBIs careerwise. 
He made 1151 hits in 4241 at bats. In August 1902, he amassed a Major League 
Baseball record streak of 12 consecutive hits. Walt Dropo later tied the 
mark in 1952.[6] He caught 115 shutouts during his career, ranking him 
16th all-time among major league catchers.[7] But while he loved baseball, 
Kling never lost his devotion to the game of pool. In 1902, for example, 
one reporter called him the best pool player of any active baseball player.[8] 
He often played for purses as high as $300, a sizable amount in that era. 
During this time, he also ran his own billiard room in his native Kansas 
City.[9] During the early 1900s, his pool-playing career was regarded positively 
by sports reporters—in one article, he was praised as a baseball player 
who was not idle during the off-season; he was said to have "double[d] 
his diamond income" by being an accomplished pool player.[10] His skill 
at pool also served him well when it came time to negotiate his baseball 
salary. Before the 1906 season he announced that he would not sign a new 
contract unless Chicago offered him a raise in pay, and if the raise was 
not forthcoming he would stay home and play pool. This angered his manager, 
Frank Chance, who snapped that everyone else but Kling had come to terms 
with the club.[11] He subsequently did decide to play, raise or not. He 
had another impressive season, catching 96 games and hitting over .300 
for the record 116-36 pennant winners.[12] Although he once again told 
Cubs' management he was considering giving up baseball for pool before 
the 1907 season,[13] he once again returned to play for the Cubs, who won 
the World Series in both 1907 & 1908. Then, in early 1909, after several 
solid years with Chicago, he engaged in another dispute with the management 
over salary and this time decided to spend some time away from the club.[14] 
During that time he continued to compete in pool, winning the world billiards 
championship, and played semi-pro baseball with a Kansas City team. He 
sat out the entire 1909 season, and in early October competed against Charles 
"Cowboy" Weston and won the world's championship of pool.[15] When he decided 
to come back to baseball in early 1910 and asked to be reinstated, a debate 
ensued as to whether he should be permitted to return since he had not 
honored his contract during the 1909 season. National League President 
Thomas J. Lynch wanted him fined or possibly traded; in the end, he was 
fined $700 and allowed to return.[16] His love for both pool and billiards 
led him to not only play competitively, but to organize a league which 
was called the National Amateur Three-Cushion League. It had teams from 
eight cities, Kansas City, Chicago and St. Louis among them.[17] He told 
reporters that when his baseball career was over, he would devote himself 
to pool and billiards full-time.[18] And despite his often-divided loyalties, 
baseball writers agreed that Kling was among the best players of his era; 
in fact, his obituary described him as "one of the greatest catchers the 
Chicago Cubs ever had".[19] After a decade of success with the Cubs Kling 
was traded to the lowly Boston Braves, where he spent the 1911 and 1912 
seasons. At one point he even managed the Braves, but his managerial efforts 
were not successful and the team had a losing record[20] He was said to 
be unhappy with the way the Braves' owners made him run the team, and this 
led to his being traded in 1913.[21] His final year in the majors was spent 
with the Cincinnati Reds. He devoted the rest of his life to several important 
pursuits. He owned the Dixon Hotel in Kansas City, where his billiard parlor 
gained national recognition. During his baseball career, he had begun mentoring 
his nephew, Bennie Allen, and as the years passed, Bennie went on to become 
a champion too.[22][23] In 1933, he purchased the Kansas City Blues of 
the American Association and was able to generate more interest in the 
team and increase their attendance within a year of taking over.[24] One 
of his innovations was to desegregate the ballpark, allowing both black 
and white fans to attend the games together.[1] Kling sold the Blues in 
1937. Though never a major name among Hall of Fame rooters, Kling garnered 
his share of support for Cooperstown. He received votes from the BBWAA 
in eight elections, earning as much as 10% of the vote (in 1937). In late 
January 1947, while returning from Miami to Kansas City, he suffered either 
a heart attack or a cerebral hemorrhage and died in hospital at age 71. 
He was survived by his wife and two daughters.[25][26] Speculation about 
whether Kling was Jewish has persisted over the years. One source says 
he used the name "Kline" early in his career,[27] a surname that is sometimes 
(but not always) Jewish. And although he was married to a Jewish woman 
in a ceremony conducted by a Reform Jewish rabbi, there are questions that 
have never been fully resolved. Interestingly, the major Jewish newspapers 
never questioned Kling's Jewishness: writers and reporters frequently referred 
to him as Jewish, in articles from the 1920s through the 1970s. The Boston 
Jewish Advocate was among those that asserted his real name was John Kline, 
and said he had even played baseball under that name; one writer said he 
was "the first of the Jewish [baseball] pioneers" (Harold U. Ribalow, "Johnny 
Kling Showed the Way", Jewish Advocate, 12 April 1951, p. 22). But even 
earlier, the story of Kling's Jewishness was given a vote of confidence 
by New York Giants owner-manager John McGraw, who knew Kling and referred 
to him as a Jewish ballplayer in a 1923 article, "Jewish Baseball Players 
Wanted" (American Israelite, 9 August 1923, p. 6). Among contemporary authors 
who believe he was Jewish is Dr. Gil Bogen, who wrote a book about Kling's 
life.[28] But some researchers dispute this, and years after his death, 
his widow Lillian, who was definitely Jewish, seemed to deny that her husband 
was ever Jewish.[29] In a 1976 Esquire magazine article, sportswriter Harry 
Stein published an "All Time All-Star Argument Starter", consisting of 
five ethnic baseball teams. Kling was the catcher on Stein's Jewish team. 
(A reader, however, wrote in and pointed out that Kling was not Jewish 
