John Joseph McHale (September 21, 1921 – January 17, 2008) was an American 
first baseman and executive in Major League Baseball who served as the 
general manager of three teams: the Detroit Tigers, Milwaukee/Atlanta Braves, 
and Montreal Expos. He served as the first president and executive director 
of the Expos during their maiden years in the National League, and owned 
ten percent of the team. His son John McHale Jr. is the current MLB executive 
vice president (administration). McHale was born in the city of Detroit, 
Michigan, and attended Detroit Catholic Central High School (Class of 1938) 
and the University of Notre Dame. He batted left-handed and threw right-handed, 
stood 6 feet (1.8 m) tall, and his weight was 200 pounds (91 kg). He signed 
with his hometown Tigers in 1941 and two years later made his first MLB 
appearance. In five seasons and 64 games with the Tigers (1943–45, 1947–48), 
McHale compiled a batting average of .193 with 22 hits. He was hitless 
in three at bats in the 1945 World Series, in which Detroit defeated the 
Chicago Cubs. He eventually became director of minor league operations 
for the Tigers and was named general manager in 1957 at the young age of 
35. But he soon was recruited by the defending NL champion Braves, where 
he succeeded John Quinn as general manager in January 1959. As it turned 
out, McHale presided over the slow decline of the Braves on the field. 
While superstar Hank Aaron was in the prime of his career, eventual Hall 
of Famers Warren Spahn and Eddie Mathews—along with Del Crandall, Lew Burdette, 
Joe Adcock and other stars of the Braves' 1957–58 NL championship clubs—aged 
and fell off in production. Meanwhile, the young players developed by the 
team's farm system could not pick up the slack. However, according to an 
April 8, 1963 article in Sports Illustrated, it was McHale himself who 
disposed of young talent and decimated the farm system: "With General Manager 
John McHale trading away brilliant young pitchers ( Joey Jay and Juan Pizarro) 
and solid everyday performers like Billy Bruton and Joe Adcock, and then 
unloading over half the once fertile farm clubs, Bragan will have to depend 
on old Braves who may prefer peace to war."[1] As the Braves slipped into 
the middle ranks of the National League, attendance at Milwaukee County 
Stadium declined precipitously. In 1963, the club was sold to a group of 
Chicago-based investors. By 1964, the Braves were rumored (correctly) to 
be moving to Atlanta. In 1965, during their lame-duck season in Milwaukee, 
McHale was the figurehead for a supremely unpopular ownership. In 1966, 
the Atlanta Braves' first year, the club started slowly. McHale was replaced 
as general manager in mid-season by Paul Richards, a former Tiger teammate 
of McHale's and a legend in Georgia's capital since his days as playing 
manager of the Atlanta Crackers of the Southern Association from 1938 to 
1942. After the season, McHale left the Braves to replace Lee MacPhail 
as the chief aide to Baseball Commissioner William Eckert. In 1968, the 
year before the NL expanded to 12 teams, McHale was named president of 
the newly-born Montreal Expos by their owner, Seagrams heir Charles Bronfman. 
A few weeks after McHale's appointment, Eckert was fired as commissioner 
and McHale emerged as a leading contender to succeed his former boss, along 
with executives Michael Burke of the New York Yankees and Chub Feeney of 
the San Francisco Giants. He had strong support in the American League, 
but NL owners—who wanted McHale's experienced hand turned toward the fledgling 
Expo franchise—intervened and McHale's candidacy was halted.[2] (The commissionership 
eventually went to NL attorney Bowie Kuhn). Putting the commissioner election 
behind him, McHale focused on building the first MLB franchise located 
in Canada. While McHale concentrated on upper management responsibilities 
during his first decade with the Expos, he eventually assumed their general 
manager portfolio as well, and it was during his watch (as GM from 1978 
to 1984) that the Expos achieved their only playoff appearance, in 1981. 
McHale resigned as general manager in favor of Murray Cook at the close 
of the 1984 season, then stepped down from the club presidency in 1986; 
he was succeeded in the latter post by Claude Brochu. McHale was also the 
last non-Hall of Fame member of the Hall's Veterans Committee, having been 
grandfathered in when the structure of the committee was updated in 2001.[1] 
