General of the Armies (de jure) Indian Wars Spanish–American War Philippine–American 
War Russo-Japanese War Mexican Revolution World War I General of the Armies 
John Joseph "Black Jack" Pershing (September 13, 1860 – July 15, 1948) 
was a senior United States Army officer, most famous as the commander of 
the American Expeditionary Force (AEF) on the Western Front in World War 
I, 1917–18. He rejected British and French demands that American forces 
be integrated with their armies, and insisted that the AEF would operate 
as a single unit under his command, although some American divisions fought 
under British command, and he also allowed all-black units to be integrated 
with the French army. American forces first saw serious battle at Cantigny, 
Chateau-Thierry, Belleau Wood, and Soissons. To speed up the arrival of 
the doughboys, they embarked for France leaving the heavy equipment behind, 
and used British and French tanks, artillery, airplanes and other munitions. 
In September 1918 at St. Mihiel, the First Army was directly under Pershing's 
command; it overwhelmed the salient which the German Army had held for 
three years. For the Meuse-Argonne Offensive, Pershing shifted roughly 
600,000 American soldiers to the heavily defended forests of the Argonne, 
keeping his divisions engaged in hard fighting for 47 days, alongside the 
French. The Allied Hundred Days Offensive, which the Argonne fighting was 
part of, resulted in Germany calling for an armistice. Pershing was of 
the opinion that the war should continue and that all of Germany should 
be occupied in an effort to permanently destroy German militarism. Pershing 
is the only American to be promoted in his own lifetime to General of the 
Armies, the highest possible rank in the United States Army; an act was 
passed in 1976 retroactively promoting George Washington to the same rank 
but with higher seniority, ensuring that he would always be considered 
the senior ranking officer in the United States Army. Allowed to select 
his own insignia, Pershing chose to use four gold stars to distinguish 
himself from those officers who held the rank of General.[1] After the 
creation of the five-star General of the Army rank during World War II, 
his rank of General of the Armies could unofficially be considered that 
of a six-star general, but he died before the proposed insignia could be 
considered and acted on by Congress. Some of his tactics have been criticized 
both by other commanders at the time and by modern historians. His reliance 
on costly frontal assaults, long after other Allied armies had abandoned 
such tactics, has been blamed for causing unnecessarily high American casualties.[2] 
In addition to leading the A.E.F. to victory in World War I, Pershing notably 
served as a mentor to many in the generation of generals who led the United 
States Army during World War II, including George Marshall, Dwight D. Eisenhower, 
Omar Bradley, George S. Patton, and Douglas MacArthur.[3][4] Pershing was 
born on a farm near Laclede, Missouri, to businessman John Fletcher Pershing 
and homemaker Ann Elizabeth Thompson. Pershing's great-great-grandfather, 
Frederick Pershing, whose name originally was Pfersching, emigrated from 
Germany, leaving Amsterdam on the ship Jacob, and arriving in Philadelphia 
on October 2nd, 1749. Pershing's mother was of English descent. He also 
had five siblings: brothers James F. (1862–1933) and Ward (1874–1909), 
and sisters Mary Elizabeth (1864–1928), Anna May (1867–1955) and Grace 
(1867–1903); three other children died in infancy.[5][6][7] When the Civil 
War began, his father supported the Union and was a sutler for the 18th 
Missouri Volunteer Infantry. Pershing attended a school in Laclede that 
was reserved for precocious students who were also the children of prominent 
citizens. Completing high school in 1878, he became a teacher of local 
African American children. In 1880, Pershing entered the North Missouri 
Normal School (now Truman State University) in Kirksville, Missouri. Two 
years later, he applied to the United States Military Academy. Pershing 
later admitted that serving in the military was secondary to attending 
West Point, and he had applied because the education offered was better 
than that obtainable in rural Missouri. Pershing was sworn in as a West 
Point cadet in the fall of 1882. He was selected early for leadership and 
became successively First Corporal, First Sergeant, First Lieutenant, and 
First Captain, the highest possible cadet rank. Pershing also commanded, 
ex officio, the West Point Honor Guard that escorted the funeral procession 
of President Ulysses S. Grant. Pershing graduated from West Point in the 
summer of 1886 and was commended by the Superintendent of West Point, General 
Wesley Merritt, for high leadership skills and possessing "superb ability". 
Pershing briefly considered petitioning the Army to let him study law and 
delay his commission. He applied for a furlough from West Point, but soon 
withdrew the request in favor of active Army duty. He was commissioned 
a Second Lieutenant in the United States Army in 1886, at age 26, graduating 
30th in a class of 77. Pershing reported for active duty on September 30, 
1886, and was assigned to Troop L of the 6th U.S. Cavalry stationed at 
Fort Bayard, in the New Mexico Territory. While serving in the 6th Cavalry, 
Pershing participated in several Indian campaigns and was cited for bravery 
for actions against the Apache. During his time at Fort Stanton, Pershing 
and close friends Lt. Julius Penn and Lt. Richard B. Paddock were nicknamed 
"The Three Green P's," spending their leisure time hunting and attending 
Hispanic dances. Pershing's sister Grace married Paddock in 1890.[8] Between 
1887 and 1890, Pershing served with the 6th Cavalry at various postings 
in California, Arizona, and North Dakota. He also became an expert marksman 
and, in 1891, was rated second in pistol and fifth in rifle out of all 
soldiers in the U.S. Army. On December 9, 1890, Pershing and the 6th Cavalry 
arrived at Sioux City, Iowa, where Pershing played a role in suppressing 
the last uprisings of the Lakota (Sioux) Indians. Though he and his unit 
did not participate in the Wounded Knee Massacre, they did fight three 
days after it on January 1, 1891 when Sioux warriors attacked the 6th Cavalry's 
supply wagons. When the Sioux began firing at the wagons, Pershing and 
his troops heard the shots, and rode more than six miles to the location 
of the attack. The cavalry fired at the forces of Chief War Eagle, causing 
them to retreat. This would be the only occasion where Pershing would see 
action in the Ghost Dance campaign.[9] In September 1891 he was assigned 
as the Professor of Military Science and Tactics at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, 
a position he held until 1895. While in Nebraska, Pershing attended law 
school and graduated in 1893. He formed a drill company of chosen university 
cadets, Company A. In March 1892, it won the Maiden Prize competition of 
the National Competitive Drills in Omaha, Nebraska. The Citizens of Omaha 
presented the company with a large silver cup, the "Omaha Cup". On October 
2, 1894, former members of Company A established a fraternal military drill 
organization named the Varsity Rifles. The group renamed itself the Pershing 
Rifles in 1895 in honor of its mentor and patron. Pershing maintained a 
close relationship with Pershing Rifles for the remainder of his life.[citation 
needed] On October 20, 1892,[10] Pershing was promoted to first lieutenant 
and in 1895 took command of a troop of the 10th Cavalry Regiment (one of 
the original Buffalo Soldier regiments), composed of African-American soldiers 
under white officers. From Fort Assinniboine in north central Montana, 
he commanded an expedition to the south and southwest that rounded up and 
deported a large number of Cree Indians to Canada. In 1897, Pershing was 
appointed to the West Point tactical staff as an instructor, where he was 
assigned to Cadet Company A. Because of his strictness and rigidity, Pershing 
was unpopular with the cadets, who took to calling him "Nigger Jack" because 
of his service with the 10th Cavalry Regiment, a now famous unit formed 
as a segregated African-American unit and one of the original "Buffalo 
Soldier" regiments.[11][12][13] During the course of his tour at the Academy, 
this epithet softened to "Black Jack", although, according to Vandiver, 
"the intent remained hostile".[11] Still, this nickname would stick with 
Pershing for the rest of his life, and was known to the public as early 
as 1917.[14] At the start of the Spanish–American War, First Lieutenant 
Pershing was the regimental quartermaster for 10th Cavalry Regiment (Buffalo 
Soldiers) and fought with the unit on Kettle and San Juan Hill in Cuba 
and was cited for gallantry. (In 1919, he was awarded the Silver Citation 
Star for these actions, and in 1932 the award was upgraded to the Silver 
Star decoration.) A commanding officer here commented on Pershing's calm 
demeanor under fire, saying he was "cool as a bowl of cracked ice".[15] 
Pershing also served with the 10th Cavalry during the siege and surrender 
of Santiago de Cuba. Pershing was commissioned as a major of United States 
Volunteers on August 26, 1898, and assigned as an ordnance officer. He 
was honorably discharged from the volunteers and reverted to his permanent 
rank of first lieutenant on May 12, 1899. Soon after, he was again commissioned 
as a major of Volunteers on June 6, 1899, as an assistant adjutant general. 
In March 1899, after suffering from malaria, Pershing was put in charge 
of the Office of Customs and Insular Affairs which oversaw occupation forces 
in territories gained in the Spanish–American War, including Cuba, Puerto 
Rico, the Philippines, and Guam. When the Philippine–American War began, 
Pershing was either ordered or requested transfer to Manila.[16] He reported 
on August 17, 1899, as a major of Volunteers and was assigned to the Department 
of Mindanao and Jolo and commanded efforts to suppress the Filipino Insurrection. 
On November 27, 1900, Pershing was appointed Adjutant General of his department 
and served in this posting until March 1, 1901. He was cited for bravery 
for actions on the Cagayan River while attempting to destroy a Philippine 
stronghold at Macajambo. On June 30, 1901, Pershing was honorably discharged 
from the Volunteers and he reverted to the rank of captain in the Regular 
Army to which he had been promoted on February 2, 1901. He served with 
the 1st Cavalry Regiment in the Philippines. He later was assigned to the 
15th Cavalry Regiment, serving as an intelligence officer and participating 
in actions against the Moros. He was cited for bravery at Lake Lanao. In 
June 1901, he served as Commander of Camp Vicars in Lanao, Philippines, 
after the previous camp commander had been promoted to brigadier general. 
In June 1903, Pershing was ordered to return to the United States. President 
Theodore Roosevelt, taken by Pershing's ability, petitioned the Army General 
Staff to promote Pershing to colonel. At the time, Army officer promotions 
were based primarily on seniority rather than merit,[17] and although there 
was widespread acknowledgment that Pershing should serve as a colonel, 
the Army General Staff declined to change their seniority-based promotion 
tradition just to accommodate Pershing. They would not consider a promotion 
to lieutenant colonel or even major. This angered Roosevelt, but since 
the President could only name and promote army officers in the General 
ranks, his options for recognizing Pershing through promotion were limited. 
In 1904, Pershing was assigned as the Assistant Chief of Staff of the Southwest 
Army Division stationed at Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. In October 1904, he 
attended the Army War College, and then was ordered to Washington, D.C. 
for "general duties unassigned". Since Roosevelt could not yet promote 
Pershing, he petitioned the United States Congress to authorize a diplomatic 
posting, and Pershing was stationed as military attaché in Tokyo in 1905. 
Also in 1905, Pershing married Helen Frances Warren, the daughter of powerful 
U.S. Senator Francis E. Warren, a Wyoming Republican and chairman of the 
U.S. Military Appropriations Committee. This union helped his military 
career.[18] After serving as an observer in the Russo-Japanese War attached 
to General Kuroki Tamemoto's Japanese First Army in Manchuria from March 
to September,[19] Pershing returned to the United States in the fall of 
1905. President Roosevelt employed his presidential prerogative and nominated 
Pershing as a brigadier general, a move which Congress approved. In skipping 
three ranks and more than 835 officers senior to him, the promotion gave 
rise to accusations that Pershing's appointment was the result of political 
connections and not military abilities.[20] However, several other junior 
officers were similarly advanced to brigadier general ahead of their peers 
and seniors, including Albert L. Mills (captain), Tasker H. Bliss (major), 
and Leonard Wood (captain). Pershing's promotion, while unusual, was not 
unprecedented, and had the support of many soldiers who admired his abilities.[21][22] 
In 1908, Pershing briefly served as a U.S. military observer in the Balkans, 
an assignment which was based in Paris. Upon returning to the United States 
at the end of 1909, Pershing was assigned once again to the Philippines, 
an assignment in which he served until 1913. While in the Philippines, 
he served as Commander of Fort McKinley, near Manila, and also was the 
governor of the Moro Province. The last of Pershing's four children was 
born in the Philippines, and during this time he became an Episcopalian. 
In 1913 Pershing was recommended for the Medal of Honor following his actions 
at the Battle of Bud Bagsak.[23] He wrote to the Adjutant General to request 
that the recommendation not be acted on, though the board which considered 
the recommendation had already voted no before receiving Pershing's letter.[24] 
In 1922 a further review of this event resulted in Pershing being recommended 
for the Distinguished Service Cross, but as the Army Chief of Staff Pershing 
disapproved the action.[25] In 1940 Pershing received the Distinguished 
Service Cross for his heroism at Bud Bagsak, with President Franklin D. 
Roosevelt presenting it in a ceremony timed to coincide with Pershing's 
80th birthday.[26] During this period Pershing's reputation for both stern 
discipline and effective leadership continued to grow, with one experienced 
old soldier under his command later saying Pershing was an "S.O.B." and 
that he hated Pershing's guts, but that "as a soldier, the ones then and 
the ones now couldn't polish his (Pershing's) boots."[27] On December 20, 
1913, Pershing received orders to take command of the 8th Brigade at the 
Presidio in San Francisco. With tensions running high on the border between 
the United States and Mexico, the brigade was deployed to Fort Bliss, Texas 
on April 24, 1914, arriving there on the 27th.[28] After a year at Fort 
Bliss, Pershing decided to take his family there. The arrangements were 
almost complete, when on the morning of August 27, 1915, he received a 
telegram informing him of a fire in the Presidio in San Francisco, where 
a lacquered floor caught fire and the flames rapidly spread, resulting 
in the smoke inhalation deaths of his wife, Helen Frances Warren, and three 
young daughters, Mary, age 3, Anne, age 7, and Helen, age 8. Only his 6-year-old 
son Francis Warren survived.[29][30] After the funerals at Lakeview Cemetery 
in Cheyenne, Wyoming, Pershing returned to Fort Bliss with his son, Warren, 
and his sister May, and resumed his duties as commanding officer.[31][32] 
On March 15, 1916,[33][34][35] Pershing led an expedition into Mexico to 
capture Pancho Villa. This expedition was ill-equipped and hampered by 
a lack of supplies due to the breakdown of the Quartermaster Corps. Although 
there had been talk of war on the border for years, no steps had been taken 
to provide for the handling of supplies for an expedition. Despite this 
and other hindrances, such as the lack of aid from the former Mexican government, 
and their refusal to allow American troops to transport troops and supplies 
over their railroads, Pershing organized and commanded the Mexican Punitive 
Expedition, a combined armed force of 10,000 men that penetrated 350 miles 
(560 km) into Mexico. They routed Villa's revolutionaries, but failed to 
capture him.[36][37] At the start of the United States' involvement in 
World War I President Woodrow Wilson considered mobilizing an army to join 
the fight. Frederick Funston, Pershing's superior in Mexico, was being 
considered for the top billet as the Commander of the American Expeditionary 
Force (AEF) when he died suddenly from a heart attack on February 19, 1917. 
Following America's entrance into the war, Wilson, after a short interview, 
named Pershing to command, a post which he retained until 1918. Pershing, 
who was a major general, was promoted to full general (the first since 
Philip Sheridan in 1888) in the National Army, and was made responsible 
for the organization, training, and supply of a combined professional and 
draft Army and National Guard force that eventually grew from 27,000 inexperienced 
men to two Armies (a third was forming as the war ended) totaling over 
two million soldiers. Pershing exercised significant control over his command, 
with a full delegation of authority from Wilson and Secretary of War Newton 
D. Baker. Baker, cognizant of the endless problems of domestic and allied 
political involvement in military decision making in wartime, gave Pershing 
unmatched authority to run his command as he saw fit. In turn, Pershing 
exercised his prerogative carefully, not engaging in politics or disputes 
over government policy that might distract him from his military mission. 
While earlier a champion of the African-American soldier, he did not advocate 
their full participation on the battlefield, understanding the general 
racial attitudes of white Americans. In addition, Wilson held reactionary 
views on race and owed political debts to southern Democratic politicians. 
George Marshall served as one of Pershing's top assistants during and after 
the war. Pershing's initial chief of staff was James Harbord, who later 
took a combat command but worked as Pershing's closest assistant for many 
years and remained extremely loyal to him. After departing from Fort Jay 
at Governors Island in New York Harbor under top secrecy in May 1917, Pershing 
arrived in France in June 1917. In a show of American presence, part of 
the 16th Infantry Regiment marched through Paris shortly after his arrival. 
Pausing at the tomb of Gilbert du Motier, Marquis de Lafayette, he was 
reputed to have uttered the famous line "Lafayette, we are here," a line 
spoken, in fact, by his aide, Colonel Charles E. Stanton.[38] American 
forces were deployed in France in the autumn of 1917. Pershing never remarried, 
but in September 1917 the French government commissioned a portrait of 
Pershing by 23-year-old Romanian artist, Micheline Resco. Pershing removed 
the stars and flag from his car and sat up front with his chauffeur while 
traveling from his AEF headquarters to visit her by night in her apartment 
on the rue Descombes. Their friendship continued for the rest of his life.[39] 
For the first time in American history, Pershing allowed American soldiers 
to be under the command of a foreign power. In late June, General Rawlinson, 
commanding the British Fourth Army, suggested to Australian Lieutenant 
General John Monash that American involvement in a set-piece attack alongside 
the experienced Australians in the upcoming Battle of Hamel would both 
give the American troops experience and also strengthen the Australian 
battalions by an additional company each. On June 29, General Bell, commanding 
the American 33rd Division, selected two companies each from the 131st 
and 132nd Infantry regiments of the 66th brigade. However, Monash had been 
promised ten companies of American troops and on June 30 the remaining 
companies of the 1st and 2nd battalions of the 131st regiment were sent. 
Each American platoon was attached to an Australian company. However, there 
was difficulty in integrating the American platoons (which numbered 60 
men) amongst the Australian companies of 100 men. This difficulty was overcome 
by reducing the size of each American platoon by one-fifth and sending 
the troops thus removed, which numbered 50 officers and men, back to battalion 
reinforcement camps. Under civilian control of the military, Pershing adhered 
to the racial policies of President Woodrow Wilson, Secretary of War Newton 
D. Baker, and southern Democrats who promoted the "separate but equal" 
doctrine. African-American "Buffalo Soldiers" units were not allowed to 
participate with the American Expeditionary Force (AEF) during World War 
I, but experienced non-commissioned officers were provided to other segregated 
black units for combat service—such as the 317th Engineer Battalion.[40] 
The American Buffalo Soldiers of the 92nd and 93rd Infantry Divisions were 
the first American soldiers to fight in France in 1918, albeit detached 
from the AEF and under French command. Most regiments of the 92nd and all 
of the 93rd would continue to fight under French command for the duration 
of the war.[41] In early 1918, entire divisions were beginning to serve 
on the front lines alongside French troops. Pershing insisted that the 
AEF fight as units under American command rather than being split up by 
battalions to augment British and French regiments and brigades (although 
the 27th and 30th Divisions, grouped under II Corps command, were loaned 
during the desperate days of spring 1918, fought with the British/Australian/Canadian 
Fourth Army until the end of the war, taking part in the breach of the 
Hindenburg Line in October). In October 1918, Pershing saw the need for 
a dedicated Military Police Corps and the first U.S. Army MP School was 
established at Autun, France. For this, he is considered the founding father 
of the United States MPs.[42] Because of the effects of trench warfare 
on soldiers' feet, in January 1918, Pershing oversaw the creation of an 
improved combat boot, the "1918 Trench Boot," which became known as the 
"Pershing Boot" upon its introduction.[43] American forces first saw serious 
action during the summer of 1918, contributing eight large divisions, alongside 
24 French ones, at the Second Battle of the Marne. Along with the British 
Fourth Army's victory at Amiens, the Allied victory at the Second Battle 
of the Marne marked the turning point of World War I on the Western Front. 
In August 1918 the U.S. First Army had been formed, first under Pershing's 
direct command and then by Lieutenant General Hunter Liggett, when the 
U.S. Second Army under Lieutenant General Robert Bullard was created. After 
a quick victory at Saint-Mihiel, east of Verdun, some of the more bullish 
AEF commanders had hoped to push on eastwards to Metz, but this did not 
fit in with the plans of the Allied Supreme Commander, Marshal Foch, for 
three simultaneous offensives into the "bulge" of the Western Front (the 
other two being the Fourth Army's breach of the Hindenburg Line and an 
Anglo-Belgian offensive, led by Plumer's Second Army, in Flanders). Instead, 
the AEF was required to redeploy and, aided by French tanks, launched a 
major offensive northwards in very difficult terrain at Meuse-Argonne. 
Initially enjoying numerical odds of eight to one, this offensive eventually 
engaged 35 or 40 of the 190 or so German divisions on the Western Front, 
although to put this in perspective, around half the German divisions were 
engaged on the British Expeditionary Force (BEF) sector at the time. The 
offensive was, however, marked by Pershing's failure: his reliance on massed 
infantry attacks with little artillery support led to high casualty rates 
in the capturing of three key points. This was despite the AEF facing only 
second-line German troops after the decision by Erich Ludendorff, the German 
Chief of Staff, to withdraw to the Hindenburg Line on October 3–and in 
notable contrast to the simultaneous British breakthrough of the Hindenburg 
Line in the north. Pershing was subsequently forced to reorganize the AEF 
with the creation of the Second Army, and to step down as the commander 
of the First Army.[44] When he arrived in Europe, Pershing had openly scorned 
the slow trench warfare of the previous three years on the Western Front, 
believing that American soldiers' skill with the rifle would enable them 
to avoid costly and senseless fighting over a small area of no-man's land. 
This was regarded as unrealistic by British and French commanders, and 
(privately) by a number of Americans such as Army Chief of Staff General 
Tasker Bliss and even Liggett. Even German generals were negative, with 
Ludendorff dismissing Pershing's strategic efforts in the Meuse-Argonne 
offensive by recalling how "the attacks of the youthful American troops 
broke down with the heaviest losses".[45] The AEF had performed well in 
the relatively open warfare of the Second Battle of the Marne, but the 
eventual American casualties against German defensive positions in the 
Argonne (roughly 120,000 American casualties in six weeks, against 35 or 
40 German divisions) were not noticeably better than those of the Franco-British 
offensive on the Somme two years earlier (600,000 casualties in four and 
a half months, versus 50 or so German divisions). More ground was gained, 
but by this stage of the war the German Army was in worse shape than in 
previous years. Some writers[46] have speculated that Pershing's frustration 
at the slow progress through the Argonne was the cause of two incidents 
which then ensued. First, he ordered the U.S. First Army to take "the honor" 
of recapturing Sedan, site of the French defeat in 1870; the ensuing confusion 
(an order was issued that "boundaries were not to be considered binding") 
exposed American troops to danger not only from the French on their left, 
but even from one another, as the 1st Division tacked westward by night 
across the path of the 42nd Division (accounts differ as to whether Brigadier 
General Douglas MacArthur, then commanding the 84th Brigade of the 42nd 
Division, was really mistaken for a German officer and arrested). Liggett, 
who had been away from headquarters the previous day, had to sort out the 
mess and implement the instructions from the Allied Supreme Command, Marshal 
Foch, allowing the French to recapture the city; he later recorded that 
this was the only time during the war in which he lost his temper. Second, 
Pershing sent an unsolicited letter to the Allied Supreme War Council, 
demanding that the Germans not be given an armistice and that instead, 
the Allies should push on and obtain an unconditional surrender.[47] Although 
in later years, many, including President Franklin D. Roosevelt, felt that 
Pershing had been correct, at the time, this was a breach of political 
authority. Pershing narrowly escaped a serious reprimand from Wilson's 
aide, Colonel Edward M. House, and later apologized.[citation needed] At 
the time of the Armistice, another Franco-American offensive was due to 
start on November 14, thrusting towards Metz and into Lorraine, to take 
place simultaneously with further BEF advances through Belgium. In his 
memoirs, Pershing claimed that the American breakout from the Argonne at 
the start of November was the decisive event leading to the German acceptance 
of an armistice, because it made untenable the Antwerp–Meuse line. This 
is probably an exaggeration; the outbreak of civil unrest and naval mutiny 
in Germany, the collapse of Bulgaria, the Ottoman Empire, and particularly 
Austria-Hungary following Allied victories in Salonika, Syria, and Italy, 
(as well as the collapse of the co-belligerents of the Central Powers) 
and the Allied victories on the Western Front were among a series of events 
in the autumn of 1918 which made it clear that Allied victory was inevitable, 
and diplomatic inquiries about an armistice had been going on throughout 
October. President Wilson was keen to tie matters up before the mid-term 
elections,[citation needed] and as the other Allies were running low on 
supplies and manpower,[48] they followed Wilson's lead.[citation needed] 
American successes were largely credited to Pershing, and he became the 
most celebrated American leader of the war. Critics,[who?] however, claimed 
that Pershing commanded from far behind the lines and was critical of commanders 
who personally led troops into battle.[citation needed] MacArthur saw Pershing 
as a desk soldier, and the relationship between the two men deteriorated 
by the end of the war. Similar criticism of senior commanders by the younger 
generation of officers (the future generals of World War II) was made in 
the British and other armies, but in fairness to Pershing, although it 
was not uncommon for brigade commanders to serve near the front and even 
be killed, the state of communications in World War I made it more practical 
for senior generals to command from the rear. He controversially ordered 
his troops to continue fighting after the armistice was signed. This resulted 
in 3,500 American casualties on the last day of the war, an act which was 
regarded as murder by several officers under his command.[49] The year 
of 1918 also saw a personal health struggle for Pershing as he was sickened 
during the 1918 flu pandemic, but unlike many who were not so fortunate, 
Pershing survived.[50] He rode his horse, Kidron, in the Paris victory 
parade in 1919.[51] In 1919, in recognition of his distinguished service 
during World War I, the U.S. Congress authorized the President to promote 
Pershing to General of the Armies of the United States, the highest rank 
possible for any member of the United States armed forces, which was created 
especially for him and one that only he held at the time.[52] (In 1976 
Congress authorized President Gerald Ford to posthumously promote George 
Washington to this rank as part of the United States Bicentennial; Washington 
previously held the rank of General of the Armies in the Continental Army; 
his earlier date of rank in the 1976 promotion ensured that Washington 
would always be considered the U.S. Army's highest-ranking officer.)[53][54] 
Pershing was authorized to create his insignia for the new rank and chose 
to wear four gold stars[55][56][57][58] for the rest of his career, which 
separated him from the four (temporary) silver stars worn by Army Chiefs 
of Staff of the 1910s and early 1920s. There was a movement to draft Pershing 
as a candidate for president in 1920; he refused to campaign, but indicated 
that he "wouldn't decline to serve" if the people wanted him. Though Pershing 
was a Republican, many of his party's leaders considered him too closely 
tied to the policies of the Democratic Party's President Wilson. Another 
general, Leonard Wood, was the early Republican front runner, but the nomination 
went to Senator Warren G. Harding of Ohio, who went on to win the general 
election.[59] In 1921, Pershing became Chief of Staff of the United States 
Army, serving for three years. He created the Pershing Map, a proposed 
national network of military and civilian highways. The Interstate Highway 
System instituted in 1956 bears considerable resemblance to the Pershing 
map. On his 64th birthday, September 13, 1924, Pershing retired from active 
military service. (Army regulations from the late 1860s to the early 1940s 
required officers to retire on their 64th birthday.) On November 1, 1921, 
Pershing was in Kansas City to take part in the groundbreaking ceremony 
for the Liberty Memorial that was being constructed there. Also present 
that day were Lieutenant General Baron Jacques of Belgium, Admiral David 
Beatty of Great Britain, Marshal Ferdinand Foch of France, and General 
Armando Diaz of Italy. One of the main speakers was Vice President Calvin 
Coolidge. In 1935, bas-reliefs of Pershing, Jacques, Foch and Diaz by sculptor 
Walker Hancock were added to the memorial. Pershing also laid the cornerstone 
of the World War Memorial in Indianapolis on July 4, 1927.[60] On October 
2, 1922, amidst several hundred officers, many of them combat veterans 
of World War I, Pershing formally established the Reserve Officers Association 
(ROA) as an organization at the Willard Hotel in Washington, D.C. ROA is 
a 75,000-member, professional association of officers, former officers, 
and spouses of all the uniformed services of the United States, primarily 
the Reserve and United States National Guard. It is a congressionally chartered 
Association that advises the Congress and the President on issues of national 
security on behalf of all members of the Reserve Component. In 1924 Pershing 
became a member of the Pennsylvania Society of the Sons of the American 
Revolution. He was also an honorary member of the Society of the Cincinnati 
and a Veteran Companion of the Military Order of Foreign Wars. Pershing 
served on a committee of the Sons of the American Revolution to establish 
and recognize Constitution Day in the United States.[61] During the 1930s, 
Pershing largely retreated to private life, but returned to the public 
eye with publication of his memoirs, My Experiences in the World War, which 
were awarded the 1932 Pulitzer Prize for history. He was also an active 
Civitan during this time.[62] In 1940, before and after the Fall of France, 
Pershing was an outspoken advocate of aid for the United Kingdom during 
World War II. In August 1940, he publicly supported the "Destroyers for 
Bases Agreement", whereby the United States sold fifty warships from World 
War I to the UK in exchange for lengthy leases of land on British possessions 
for the establishment for military bases. In 1944, with Congress' creation 
of the five star rank of General of the Army, Pershing was still considered 
to be the highest-ranking officer of the United States military as his 
rank was General of the Armies. "In [1799] Congress created for George 
Washington the rank of General of the Armies ... General [Ulysses S.] Grant 
received the title of General of the Army in 1866 .... Carefully Congress 
wrote a bill (HR 7594) to revive the rank of General of the Armies for 
General Pershing alone to hold during his lifetime. The rank would cease 
to exist upon Pershing's death." Later, when asked if this made Pershing 
a five-star general, Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson commented that it 
did not, since Pershing never wore more than four stars, but that Pershing 
was still to be considered senior to the present five-star generals of 
World War II.[63] In July 1944, Pershing was visited by Free French leader 
General Charles de Gaulle. When Pershing asked after the health of his 
old friend, Marshal Philippe Pétain – who was heading the pro-German Vichy 
regime – de Gaulle replied tactfully that, when he last saw him, the Marshal 
was well.[64] On July 15, 1948, Pershing died of coronary artery disease 
and congestive heart failure at Walter Reed General Hospital in Washington, 
D.C., which was his home after 1944. Following a state funeral, he was 
buried in Arlington National Cemetery,[65] near the grave sites of the 
soldiers he commanded in Europe. It was during his initial assignment in 
the American West that his mother died.[66] On March 16, 1906, Pershing's 
father died.[66] Colonel Francis Warren Pershing (1909–1980), John J. Pershing's 
son, served in the Second World War as an advisor to the Army Chief of 
Staff, General George C. Marshall. After the war he continued with his 
financial career and founded a stock brokerage firm, Pershing & Company. 
He was father to two sons, Richard W. Pershing (1942–1968) and John Warren 
Pershing III (1941–1999). Richard Pershing served as a second lieutenant 
in the 502nd Infantry and was killed in action on February 17, 1968, in 
Vietnam.[67] John Pershing III served as a special assistant to former 
Army Chief of Staff General Gordon R. Sullivan, also attaining the rank 
of colonel. He helped shape army and the ROTC programs nationwide. Colonel 
Pershing died of cardiovascular disease in 1999.[68] (Reverted to permanent 
Regular Army rank of captain on July 1, 1901.) Note: The dates indicated 
are the date the award was made rather that they date of the service which 
was recognized. In 1932, eight years after Pershing's retirement from active 
service, his silver citation star was upgraded to the Silver Star decoration. 
In 1941 he was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross for extraordinary 
heroism in action leading an against hostile Moros at Mount Bagsak, on 
the island of Jolo in the Philippines on June 15, 1913. [74] Distinguished 
Service Cross Citation "For extraordinary heroism against hostile fanatical 
Moros at Mount Bagsak, Jolo, Philippine Islands on June 15, 1913. He personally 
assumed command of the assaulting line at the most critical period when 
only about 15 yards from the last Moro position. His encouragement and 
splendid example of personal heroism resulted in a general advance and 
the prompt capture of the hostile stronghold." [75] In 1941, he was retroactively 
awarded the Army of Occupation of Germany Medal for service in Germany 
following the close of World War I. As the medal had a profile of Pershing 
on its obverse, Pershing became the only soldier in the history of the 
U.S. Army eligible to wear a medal with his own likeness on it. (Navy admirals 
George Dewey, William T. Sampson and Richard E. Byrd were also entitled 
to wear medals with their own image on them.) Notes Bibliography Further 
