As player As coach John Franklin Sain (September 25, 1917 – November 7, 
2006) was an American right-handed pitcher in Major League Baseball who 
was best known for teaming with left-hander Warren Spahn on the Boston 
Braves teams from 1946 to 1951. He was the runner-up for the National League's 
Most Valuable Player Award in the Braves' pennant-winning season of 1948, 
after leading the National League in wins, complete games and innings pitched. 
He later became further well known as one of the top pitching coaches in 
the majors. Born in Havana, Arkansas, Sain pitched for 11 years, winning 
139 games and losing 116 in his career and compiled an earned run average 
of 3.49. His best years were those immediately after World War II, when 
he won 100 games for the Boston Braves, before being traded to the New 
York Yankees during the 1951 season for Lew Burdette and cash. Sain also 
had the distinction of being the last pitcher to face Babe Ruth[1] in a 
game and the first in the Major League to throw a pitch against Jackie 
Robinson.[2] In 1948, Sain won 24 games against 15 losses and finished 
second in the voting for the Most Valuable Player Award behind the St. 
Louis Cardinals' Stan Musial, who had won two legs of the Triple Crown. 
Sain and teammate Spahn achieved joint immortality that year when their 
feats were the subject of sports editor Gerald V. Hern's poem in the Boston 
Post which was eventually shortened to the epigram "Spahn and Sain; then 
pray for rain." According to the Baseball Almanac, the original doggerel 
appeared in Hern's column on September 14, 1948: First we'll use Spahn 
then we'll use Sain Then an off day followed by rain Back will come Spahn 
followed by Sain And followed we hope by two days of rain. The poem was 
inspired by the performance of Sain and Spahn during the Braves' 1948 pennant 
drive. The team swept a Labor Day doubleheader, with Spahn throwing a complete 
game 14-inning win in the opener, and Sain pitching a shutout in the second 
game. Following two off days, it did rain. Spahn won the next day, and 
Sain won the day after that. Three days later, Spahn won again. Sain won 
the next day. After one more off day, the two pitchers were brought back, 
and won another doubleheader. The two pitchers had gone 8-0 in twelve days' 
time.[3] That year, the Boston Braves won their second and last National 
League pennant of the post-1901 era, but fell in six games to the Cleveland 
Indians in the 1948 World Series. Sain won the first game of the Series, 
a 1-0 shutout at Braves Field that included a memorable play in which Boston 
catcher Phil Masi was called safe after an apparent pickoff at second base. 
Masi went on to score the game's only run. With the Yankees, Sain became 
a relief pitcher and enjoyed late-career success, leading the American 
League in saves with 22 in 1954. He finished his career in 1956 with the 
Kansas City Athletics. After retiring as a player, Sain spent many years 
as a well-regarded but outspoken pitching coach for the Athletics, Yankees, 
Minnesota Twins, Detroit Tigers, Chicago White Sox and Atlanta Braves. 
During the 1960s, Sain coached the pitchers of five of the American League's 
ten pennant-winning teams. An independent thinker among coaches, Sain tended 
to be admired by his pitchers, but he battled with at least two of his 
managers—Sam Mele of the Twins and Mayo Smith of the Tigers—when he disagreed 
with them. In each case, Sain was fired, but the manager's dismissal soon 
followed when his pitching staff suffered from Sain's absence. Sain did 
not make friends among owners and general managers, either, when he would 
advise pitchers to "climb those golden stairs" to their teams' front offices 
to demand more money in salary talks. Jim Bouton, in his book Ball Four, 
expressed unreserved admiration for Sain, who had been his pitching tutor 
in New York during his first two Major League seasons, 1962 and 1963. Bouton 
openly wished to pitch for the 1969 Tigers in order to have a chance to 
again benefit from Sain's coaching. Sain died at age 89 in Downers Grove, 
