John Jay (December 12 [O.S. December 23] 1745 – May 17, 1829) was an American 
statesman, Patriot, diplomat, one of the Founding Fathers of the United 
States, signatory of the Treaty of Paris, and first Chief Justice of the 
United States (1789–95). Jay was born into a wealthy family of merchants 
and government officials in New York City. He became a lawyer and joined 
the New York Committee of Correspondence and organized opposition to British 
rule. He joined a conservative political faction that, fearing mob rule, 
sought to protect property rights and maintain the rule of law while resisting 
British violations of human rights. Jay served as the President of the 
Continental Congress (1778–79), an honorific position with little power. 
During and after the American Revolution, Jay was Minister (Ambassador) 
to Spain, a negotiator of the Treaty of Paris by which Great Britain recognized 
American independence, and Secretary of Foreign Affairs, helping to fashion 
United States foreign policy. His major diplomatic achievement was to negotiate 
favorable trade terms with Great Britain in the Jay Treaty in 1794. Jay, 
a proponent of strong, centralized government, worked to ratify the U.S. 
Constitution in New York in 1788 by pseudonymously writing five of The 
Federalist Papers, along with the main authors Alexander Hamilton and James 
Madison. After the establishment of the U.S. government, Jay became the 
first Chief Justice of the United States, serving from 1789 to 1795. As 
a leader of the new Federalist Party, Jay was the Governor of the State 
of New York (1795–1801), where he became the state's leading opponent of 
slavery. His first two attempts to end slavery in New York in 1777 and 
1785 failed, but a third in 1799 succeeded. The 1799 Act, a gradual emancipation 
he signed into law, eventually granted all slaves in New York their freedom 
before his death in 1829. The Jays were a prominent merchant family in 
New York City, descended from Huguenots who had come to New York to escape 
religious persecution in France. In 1685 the Edict of Nantes had been revoked, 
thereby abolishing the rights of Protestants and confiscating their property. 
Among those affected was Jay's paternal grandfather, Augustus Jay. He moved 
from France to New York, where he built a successful merchant empire.[1] 
Jay's father, Peter Jay, born in New York City in 1704, became a wealthy 
trader in furs, wheat, timber, and other commodities.[2] John Jay was born 
on December 12, 1745, in New York City; only three months later the family 
moved to Rye, New York, when Peter Jay retired from business following 
a smallpox epidemic that had blinded two of his children.[3] John's mother 
was Mary Van Cortlandt, who had married Peter Jay in 1728, in the Dutch 
Church.[2] They had ten children together, seven of whom survived into 
adulthood.[4] Mary's father, Jacobus Van Cortlandt, had been born in New 
Amsterdam in 1658. Cortlandt served on the New York Assembly, was twice 
mayor of New York City, and also held a variety of judicial and military 
offices. Two of his children (the other one being his son Frederick) married 
into the Jay family. Jay spent his childhood in Rye. He was educated there 
by his mother until he was eight years old, when he was sent to New Rochelle 
to study under Anglican priest Pierre Stoupe.[5] In 1756, after three years, 
he would return to homeschooling in Rye under the tutelage of his mother 
and George Murray. In 1760, Jay attended King's College (later renamed 
Columbia College as the undergraduate college of Columbia University).[6][7] 
During this time, Jay made many influential friends, including his closest, 
Robert Livingston—the son of a prominent New York aristocrat and Supreme 
Court justice.[8] Jay took the same political stand as his father, a staunch 
Whig.[9] In 1764 he graduated from King's College[10] and became a law 
clerk for Benjamin Kissam (1728–1782), a prominent lawyer, politician, 
and sought after instructor in the law. In addition to Jay, his students 
included Lindley Murray.[4] In 1768, after reading law and being admitted 
to the bar of New York, Jay, with the money from the government, established 
a legal practice and worked there until he created his own law office in 
1771.[4] He was a member of the New York Committee of Correspondence in 
1774[11] and became its secretary, which was his first public role in the 
revolution. Jay represented the conservative faction that was interested 
in protecting property rights and in preserving the rule of law, while 
resisting what it regarded as British violations of American rights.[12] 
This faction feared the prospect of "mob rule". He believed the British 
tax measures were wrong and thought Americans were morally and legally 
justified in resisting them, but as a delegate to the First Continental 
Congress in 1774,[13] Jay sided with those who wanted conciliation with 
Parliament. Events such as the burning of Norfolk, Virginia, by British 
troops in January 1776 pushed Jay to support independence. With the outbreak 
of the American Revolutionary War, he worked tirelessly for the revolutionary 
cause and acted to suppress the Loyalists. Jay evolved into first a moderate, 
and then an ardent Patriot, because he had decided that all the colonies' 
efforts at reconciliation with Britain were fruitless and that the struggle 
for independence, which became the American Revolution, was inevitable.[14] 
On April 28, 1774, Jay married Sarah Van Brugh Livingston, eldest daughter 
of the New Jersey Governor William Livingston and his wife. At the time 
of the marriage, Sarah was seventeen years old and John was twenty-eight.[15] 
She accompanied Jay to Spain and later was with him in Paris, where they 
and their children resided with Benjamin Franklin at Passy.[16] Jay's brother-in-law 
Henry Brock Livingston was lost at sea through the disappearance of the 
Continental Navy ship Saratoga during the Revolutionary War. While in Paris, 
as a diplomat to France, Jay's father died. This event forced extra responsibility 
onto John Jay. Jay's brother and sister Peter and Anna, both blinded by 
smallpox in childhood,[17] became the diplomat's responsibility. John Jay's 
brother Augustus suffered from mental disabilities that required Jay to 
provide not only financial but emotional support. Jay's brother Fredrick 
was in constant financial trouble, causing John additional stress. Meanwhile, 
his brother James was in direct opposition in the political arena, joining 
the loyalist faction of the New York State Senate at the outbreak of the 
Revolutionary War, which made him an embarrassment to the John Jay family.[18] 
The life and legacy of John Jay and his descendants can be explored today 
at two of his homes, both located in Westchester County and each designated 
a National Historic Landmark. From the age of three months old until he 
attended Kings College in 1760, John Jay was raised in Rye, on a farm acquired 
by his father Peter in 1745 that overlooked Long Island Sound.[19] After 
negotiating the Treaty of Paris that ended the Revolutionary War, Jay returned 
to his childhood home to celebrate with his family and friends in July, 
1784.[20] Jay inherited this property upon the death of his older brother 
Peter in 1813 after John had already established himself at Katonah. He 
conveyed the Rye property to his eldest son, Peter Augustus Jay, in 1822. 
This property remained in the Jay family through 1904. What remains of 
the original 400-acre (1.6 km2) property is a 23-acre (93,000 m2) parcel 
called the Jay Estate, and the 1838 Peter Augustus Jay House, built by 
Peter Augustus Jay over the footprint of his father's original childhood 
home, "The Locusts." Stewardship of the site and several of its buildings 
for educational use was entrusted in 1990 by the New York State Board of 
Regents to the Jay Heritage Center.[21][22] In 2013, the non-profit Jay 
Heritage Center was also awarded stewardship and management of the site's 
landscape which includes a meadow and gardens.[23][24] As an adult, John 
Jay inherited land from his grandparents and built Bedford House, located 
near Katonah, New York where he moved in 1801 with his wife Sarah to pursue 
retirement. This property passed down to their younger son William Jay 
and his descendants. It was acquired by New York State in 1958 and named 
"The John Jay Homestead." Today this 62 acre park is preserved as the John 
Jay Homestead State Historic Site.[25] Both homes in Rye and Katonah are 
open to the public for tours and programs. John Jay was a slaveholder, 
as were many wealthy New Yorkers during the time period. However, in 1774 
Jay drafted the Address to the People of Great Britain, which draws upon 
the image of slavery and compares the British treatment of blacks to the 
British treatment of all the colonists.[26] Such comparisons between British 
treatment of blacks and of the colonists was common.[27][28] Jay took a 
more active leadership role to abolish slavery after 1777, when he drafted 
a state law to that purpose. It failed to gain passage, as did a second 
abolition law in 1785.[29] Jay was "pushing at an open door"; every member 
of the New York legislature (but one) had voted for some form of emancipation 
in 1785, but they differed on what rights to give the free blacks afterward. 
Aaron Burr both supported this bill and introduced an amendment calling 
for immediate abolition.[30] Numerous slaveholders independently freed 
their slaves after the Revolution, but thousands were held in New York 
City especially. Jay was the founder and president of the New York Manumission 
Society in 1785, which organized boycotts against newspapers and merchants 
involved in the slave trade, and provided legal counsel for free blacks 
claimed or kidnapped as slaves.[31] The Society helped enact the 1799 law 
for gradual emancipation of slaves in New York, which Jay signed into law 
as governor. "An Act for the Gradual Abolition of Slavery" provided that, 
from July 4 of that year, all children born to slave parents would be free 
(subject to lengthy apprenticeships) and that slave exports would be prohibited. 
These same children would be required to serve the mother’s owner until 
age 28 for males and age 25 for females, years beyond the typical period 
of indenture. The law thus defined a type of indentured servant while providing 
for eventual freedom for children born to slaves. It did not provide government 
payment of compensation to the owners. It also provided legal protection 
and assistance for free blacks kidnapped for the purposes of being sold 
into slavery.[32] All slaves were emancipated by July 4, 1827. The process 
in New York may perhaps have been the largest total emancipation in North 
America before 1861.[33][34] The historian Gordon S. Wood has also noted 
the scale of the emancipation by the British Army, which recruited slaves 
of rebels during the American Revolution and granted them freedom, as promised.[35] 
The British followed through on their promise of freedom, evacuating thousands 
of slaves when its troops withdrew from Charleston and New York. During 
the Revolutionary War, tens of thousands of slaves escaped to freedom, 
some to join the British; agriculture was disrupted in South Carolina and 
Georgia because of the high losses of slaves.[36] Many also escaped from 
across New England and mid-Atlantic states; the British evacuated 3,000 
freedmen from New York to Nova Scotia after the war.[37] In the close 1792 
election, Jay's antislavery work was thought to hurt his election chances 
in upstate New York Dutch areas, where slavery was still practiced.[38] 
In 1794, in the process of negotiating the Jay Treaty with the British, 
Jay angered many Southern slave-owners when he dropped their demands for 
compensation for slaves who had been freed and transported by the British 
to other areas after the Revolution.[39] He had made a practice of buying 
slaves and freeing them as adults, after he judged their labors had been 
a reasonable return on their price. In 1798 he still owned eight slaves, 
the year before the emancipation act was passed.[40] Jay was a member of 
the Church of England, and later of the Protestant Episcopal Church in 
America after the American Revolution. Since 1785, Jay had been a warden 
of Trinity Church, New York. As Congress's Secretary for Foreign Affairs, 
he supported the proposal after the Revolution that the Archbishop of Canterbury 
approve the ordination of bishops for the Episcopal Church in the United 
States.[40] He argued unsuccessfully in the provincial convention for a 
prohibition against Catholics holding office.[41] Jay, who served as vice-president 
(1816–21) and president (1821–27) of the American Bible Society,[42] believed 
that the most effective way of ensuring world peace was through propagation 
of the Christian gospel. In a letter addressed to Pennsylvania House of 
Representatives member John Murray, dated October 12, 1816, Jay wrote, 
"Real Christians will abstain from violating the rights of others, and 
therefore will not provoke war. Almost all nations have peace or war at 
the will and pleasure of rulers whom they do not elect, and who are not 
always wise or virtuous. Providence has given to our people the choice 
of their rulers, and it is the duty, as well as the privilege and interest, 
of our Christian nation to select and prefer Christians for their rulers."[43] 
He also expressed a belief that the moral precepts of Christianity were 
necessary for good government, saying, "No human society has ever been 
able to maintain both order and freedom, both cohesiveness and liberty 
apart from the moral precepts of the Christian Religion. Should our Republic 
ever forget this fundamental precept of governance, we will then, be surely 
doomed."[44] Having established a reputation as a reasonable moderate in 
New York, Jay was elected to serve as delegate to the First and Second 
Continental Congresses which debated whether the colonies should declare 
independence. Jay was originally in favor of rapprochement. He helped write 
the Olive Branch Petition which urged the British government to reconcile 
with the colonies. As the necessity and inevitability of war became evident, 
Jay threw his support behind the revolution and the Declaration of Independence. 
Jay's views became more radical as events unfolded; he became an ardent 
separatist and attempted to move New York towards that cause. In 1774, 
at the close of the Continental Congress, Jay returned to New York.[45] 
There he served on New York City's Committee of Sixty,[46] where he attempted 
to enforce a non-importation agreement passed by the First Continental 
Congress.[45] Jay was elected to the third New York Provincial Congress, 
where he drafted the Constitution of New York, 1777;[47] his duties as 
a New York Congressman prevented him from voting on or signing the Declaration 
of Independence.[45] Jay served on the committee to detect and defeat conspiracies, 
which monitored British Actions.[48] New York's Provincial Congress elected 
Jay the Chief Justice of the New York Supreme Court of Judicature on May 
8, 1777,[45][49] which he served on for two years.[45] The Continental 
Congress turned to Jay, a political adversary of the previous president 
Henry Laurens, only three days after Jay became a delegate and elected 
him President of the Continental Congress. In previous congresses, Jay 
had moved from a position of seeking conciliation with Britain to advocating 
separation sooner than Laurens. Eight states voted for Jay and four for 
Laurens. Jay served as President of the Continental Congress from December 
10, 1778, to September 28, 1779. It was a largely ceremonial position without 
real power, and indicated the resolve of the majority and the commitment 
of the Continental Congress.[50] On September 27, 1779, Jay was appointed 
Minister to Spain. His mission was to get financial aid, commercial treaties 
and recognition of American independence. The royal court of Spain refused 
to officially receive Jay as the Minister of the United States,[51] as 
it refused to recognize American Independence until 1783, fearing that 
such recognition could spark revolution in their own colonies. Jay, however, 
convinced Spain to loan $170,000 to the US government.[52] He departed 
Spain on May 20, 1782.[51] On June 23, 1782, Jay reached Paris, where negotiations 
to end the American Revolutionary War would take place.[53] Benjamin Franklin 
was the most experienced diplomat of the group, and thus Jay wished to 
lodge near him, in order to learn from him.[54] The United States agreed 
to negotiate with Britain separately, then with France.[55] In July 1782, 
the Earl of Shelburne offered the Americans independence, but Jay rejected 
the offer on the grounds that it did not recognize American independence 
during the negotiations; Jay's dissent halted negotiations until the fall.[55] 
The final treaty dictated that the United States would have Newfoundland 
fishing rights, Britain would acknowledge the United States as independent 
and would withdraw its troops in exchange for the United States ending 
the seizure of Loyalist property and honoring private debts.[55][56] The 
treaty granted the United States independence, but left many border regions 
in dispute, and many of its provisions were not enforced.[55] Jay served 
as the second Secretary of Foreign Affairs from 1784 to 1789, when in September, 
Congress passed a law giving certain additional domestic responsibilities 
to the new Department and changing its name to the Department of State. 
Jay served as acting Secretary of State until March 22, 1790. Jay sought 
to establish a strong and durable American foreign policy: to seek the 
recognition of the young independent nation by powerful and established 
foreign European powers; to establish a stable American currency and credit 
supported at first by financial loans from European banks; to pay back 
America's creditors and to quickly pay off the country's heavy War-debt; 
to secure the infant nation's territorial boundaries under the most-advantageous 
terms possible and against possible incursions by the Indians, Spanish, 
the French and the English; to solve regional difficulties among the colonies 
themselves; to secure Newfoundland fishing rights; to establish a robust 
maritime trade for American goods with new economic trading partners; to 
protect American trading vessels against piracy; to preserve America's 
reputation at home and abroad; and to hold the country together politically 
under the fledgling Articles of Confederation.[57] "Those who own the country 
ought to govern it." Jay believed his responsibility was not matched by 
a commensurate level of authority, so he joined Alexander Hamilton and 
James Madison in advocating for a stronger government than the one dictated 
by the Articles of Confederation.[4][59] He argued in his Address to the 
People of the State of New-York, on the Subject of the Federal Constitution 
that the Articles of Confederation were too weak and an ineffective form 
of government. He contended that: The Congress under the Articles of Confederation 
may make war, but are not empowered to raise men or money to carry it on—they 
may make peace, but without power to see the terms of it observed—they 
may form alliances, but without ability to comply with the stipulations 
on their part—they may enter into treaties of commerce, but without power 
to [e]nforce them at home or abroad...—In short, they may consult, and 
deliberate, and recommend, and make requisitions, and they who please may 
regard them.[60] Jay did not attend the Constitutional Convention but joined 
Hamilton and Madison in aggressively arguing in favor of the creation of 
a new and more powerful, centralized but balanced system of government. 
Writing under the shared pseudonym of "Publius,"[61] they articulated this 
vision in The Federalist Papers, a series of eighty-five articles written 
to persuade New York state convention members to ratify the proposed Constitution 
of the United States.[62] Jay wrote the second, third, fourth, fifth, and 
sixty-fourth articles. All except the sixty-fourth concerned the "[d]angers 
from [f]oreign [f]orce and [i]nfluence"; the sixty-fourth touches upon 
this matter insofar as it treats the role of the Senate in making foreign 
treaties.[63] In September 1789, George Washington offered him the position 
of Secretary of State (which, though technically a new position, would 
have continued Jay's service as Secretary of Foreign Affairs); he declined. 
Washington responded by offering him the new title—which Washington stated 
"must be regarded as the keystone of our political fabric"—as Chief Justice 
of the United States, which Jay accepted. Washington officially nominated 
Jay on September 24, 1789, the same day he signed the Judiciary Act of 
1789 (which created the position of Chief Justice) into law.[59] Jay was 
unanimously confirmed by the United States Senate on September 26, 1789; 
Washington signed and sealed Jay's commission the same day. Jay swore his 
oath of office on October 19, 1789.[64] Washington also nominated John 
Rutledge, William Cushing, Robert Harrison, James Wilson, and John Blair 
as Associate Judges.[65] Harrison declined the appointment, however, and 
Washington appointed James Iredell to fill the final seat on the Court.[66] 
Jay would later serve with Thomas Johnson,[67] who took Rutledge's seat,[68] 
and William Paterson, who took Johnson's seat.[68] While Chief Justice, 
Jay was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 
1790.[69] The Court's business through its first three years primarily 
involved the establishment of rules and procedure; reading of commissions 
and admission of attorneys to the bar; and the Justices' duties in "riding 
circuit," or presiding over cases in the circuit courts of the various 
federal judicial districts. No convention existed that precluded the involvement 
of Supreme Court Justices in political affairs, and Jay used his light 
workload as a Justice to freely participate in the business of Washington's 
administration. He used his circuit riding to spread word throughout the 
states of Washington's commitment to neutrality, then published reports 
of French minister Edmond-Charles Genet's campaign to win American support 
for France. However, Jay also established an early precedent for the Court's 
independence in 1790, when Treasury Secretary Alexander Hamilton wrote 
to Jay requesting the Court's endorsement of legislation that would assume 
the debts of the states. Jay replied that the Court's business was restricted 
to ruling on the constitutionality of cases being tried before it and refused 
to allow it to take a position either for or against the legislation.[70] 
[T]he people are the sovereign of this country, and consequently ... fellow 
citizens and joint sovereigns cannot be degraded by appearing with each 
other in their own courts to have their controversies determined. The people 
have reason to prize and rejoice in such valuable privileges, and they 
ought not to forget that nothing but the free course of constitutional 
law and government can ensure the continuance and enjoyment of them. For 
the reasons before given, I am clearly of opinion that a State is suable 
by citizens of another State. The Court heard only four cases during Jay's 
Chief Justiceship. Its first case did not occur until early in the Court's 
third term, with West v. Barnes (1791). The Court had an early opportunity 
to establish the principle of judicial review in the United States with 
the case, which involved a Rhode Island state statute permitting the lodging 
of a debt payment in paper currency. Instead of grappling with the constitutionality 
of the law, however, the Court unanimously decided the case on procedural 
grounds, strictly interpreting statutory requirements.[65] In Hayburn's 
Case (1792), the Jay Court made no decision other than to continue the 
case to a later date, and in the meantime Congress changed the law. The 
case was about whether a federal statute could require the courts to decide 
whether petitioning American Revolution veterans qualified for pensions, 
a non-judicial function. The Jay Court wrote a letter to President Washington 
to say that determining whether petitioners qualified was an "act ... not 
of a judicial nature,"[72] and that because the statute allowed the legislature 
and the executive branch to revise the court's ruling, the statute violated 
the separation of powers as dictated by the United States Constitution.[72][73][74] 
In Chisholm v. Georgia (1793), the Jay Court had to answer the question: 
"Was the state of Georgia subject to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court 
and the federal government?"[75] In a 4–1 ruling (Iredell dissented and 
Rutledge did not participate), the Jay Court ruled in favor of two South 
Carolinan Loyalists who had had their land seized by Georgia. This ruling 
sparked debate, as it implied that old debts must be paid to Loyalists.[65] 
The ruling was overturned when the Eleventh Amendment was ratified, as 
it ruled that the judiciary could not rule on cases where a state was being 
sued by a citizen of another state or foreign country.[4][65] The case 
was brought again to the Supreme Court in Georgia v. Brailsford, and the 
Court reversed its decision.[76][77] However, Jay's original Chisholm decision 
established that states were subject to judicial review.[75][78] In Georgia 
v. Brailsford, the Court upheld jury instructions stating "you [jurors] 
have ... a right to take upon yourselves to ... determine the law as well 
as the fact in controversy." Jay noted for the jury the "good old rule, 
that on questions of fact, it is the province of the jury, on questions 
of law, it is the province of the court to decide," but this amounted to 
no more than a presumption that the judges were correct about the law. 
Ultimately, "both objects [the law and the facts] are lawfully within your 
power of decision."[79][80] In 1792, Jay was the Federalist candidate for 
governor of New York, but he was defeated by Democratic-Republican George 
Clinton. Jay received more votes than George Clinton; but, on technicalities, 
the votes of Otsego, Tioga and Clinton counties were disqualified and, 
therefore, not counted, giving George Clinton a slight plurality.[81] The 
State constitution said that the cast votes shall be delivered to the secretary 
of state "by the sheriff or his deputy"; but, for example, the Otsego County 
Sheriff's term had expired, so that legally, at the time of the election, 
the office of Sheriff was vacant and the votes could not be brought to 
the State capital. Clinton partisans in the State legislature, the State 
courts, and Federal offices were determined not to accept any argument 
that this would, in practice, violate the constitutional right to vote 
of the voters in these counties. Consequently, these votes were disqualified.[82] 
Relations with Britain verged on war in 1794. British exports dominated 
the U.S. market, while American exports were blocked by British trade restrictions 
and tariffs. Britain still occupied northern forts that it had agreed to 
surrender in the Treaty of Paris. Britain’s impressment of American sailors 
and seizure of naval and military supplies bound to enemy ports on neutral 
ships also created conflict.[83] Madison proposed a trade war, "A direct 
system of commercial hostility with Great Britain," assuming that Britain 
was so weakened by its war with France that it would agree to American 
terms and not declare war.[84] Washington rejected that policy and sent 
Jay as a special envoy to Great Britain to negotiate a new treaty; Jay 
remained Chief Justice. Washington had Alexander Hamilton write instructions 
for Jay that were to guide him in the negotiations.[85] In March 1795, 
the resulting treaty, known as the Jay Treaty, was brought to Philadelphia.[85] 
When Hamilton, in an attempt to maintain good relations, informed Britain 
that the United States would not join the Danish and Swedish governments 
to defend their neutral status, Jay lost most of his leverage. The treaty 
eliminated Britain's control of northwestern posts[86] and granted the 
United States "most favored nation" status,[83] and the U.S. agreed to 
restricted commercial access to the British West Indies.[83] The treaty 
did not resolve American grievances about neutral shipping rights and impressment,[39] 
and the Democratic-Republicans denounced it, but Jay, as Chief Justice, 
decided not to take part in the debates.[87] The continued British impressment 
of American ships would lead, in part, to the War of 1812.[88] The failure 
to get compensation for slaves taken by the British during the Revolution 
"was a major reason for the bitter Southern opposition".[89] Jefferson 
and Madison, fearing a commercial alliance with aristocratic Britain might 
undercut republicanism, led the opposition. However, Washington put his 
prestige behind the treaty and Hamilton and the Federalists mobilized public 
opinion.[90] The Senate ratified the treaty by a 20–10 vote (just enough 
to meet the two-thirds majority requirement).[83][86] Democratic-Republicans 
were incensed at what they perceived as a betrayal of American interests, 
and Jay was denounced by protesters with such graffiti as "Damn John Jay! 
Damn everyone who won't damn John Jay!! Damn everyone that won't put lights 
in his windows and sit up all night damning John Jay!!!" One newspaper 
editor wrote, "John Jay, ah! the arch traitor – seize him, drown him, burn 
him, flay him alive."[91] Jay himself quipped that he could travel at night 
from Boston to Philadelphia solely by the light of his burning effigies.[92] 
While in Britain, Jay was elected in May 1795, as the second governor of 
New York State (following George Clinton) as a Federalist. He resigned 
from the Supreme Court service on June 29, 1795, and served six years as 
governor until 1801. As Governor, he received a proposal from Hamilton 
to gerrymander New York for the presidential election of that year;[when?] 
he marked the letter "Proposing a measure for party purposes which it would 
not become me to adopt", and filed it without replying.[93] President John 
Adams then renominated him to the Supreme Court; the Senate quickly confirmed 
him, but he declined, citing his own poor health[59] and the court's lack 
of "the energy, weight and dignity which are essential to its affording 
due support to the national government."[94] After Jay's rejection of the 
position, Adams successfully nominated John Marshall as Chief Justice. 
While governor, Jay ran in the 1796 presidential election, winning five 
electoral votes, and in the 1800 election, winning one vote. In 1801, Jay 
declined both the Federalist renomination for governor and a Senate-confirmed 
nomination to resume his former office as Chief Justice of the United States, 
retiring to the life of a farmer in Westchester County, New York. Soon 
after his retirement, his wife died.[95] Jay remained in good health, continued 
to farm and, with one notable exception, stayed out of politics.[96] In 
1819, he wrote a letter condemning Missouri's bid for admission to the 
union as a slave state, saying that slavery "ought not to be introduced 
nor permitted in any of the new states".[97] Mid-way through Jay's retirement 
in 1814, both he and his son Peter Augustus Jay were elected members of 
the American Antiquarian Society.[98] On the night of May 14, 1829, Jay 
was stricken with palsy, probably caused by a stroke. He lived for three 
days, dying in Bedford, New York, on May 17.[99] Jay had chosen to be buried 
in Rye, where he lived as a boy. In 1807, he had transferred the remains 
of his wife Sarah Livingston and those of his colonial ancestors from the 
family vault in the Bowery in Manhattan to Rye, establishing a private 
cemetery. Today, the Jay Cemetery is an integral part of the Boston Post 
Road Historic District, adjacent to the historic Jay Estate. The Cemetery 
is maintained by the Jay descendants and closed to the public. It is the 
oldest active cemetery associated with a figure from the American Revolution. 
Several geographical locations within his home state of New York were named 
for him, including the colonial Fort Jay on Governors Island and John Jay 
Park in Manhattan which was designed in part by his great, great granddaughter 
Mary Rutherfurd Jay. Other places named for him include the towns of Jay 
in Maine, New York, and Vermont; Jay County, Indiana.[100] Mount John Jay, 
also known as Boundary Peak 18, a summit on the border between Alaska and 
British Columbia, Canada, is also named for him,[101][102] as is Jay Peak 
in northern Vermont.[citation needed] On September 5, 1936, the Rye Post 
Office issued a special cancellation stamp in honor of their native son. 
To further commemorate the fact that Rye was John Jay's hometown, the Rye 
Post office United States Post Office led by Congresswoman Caroline Love 
Goodwin O'Day commissioned painter Guy Pene du Bois to create a mural which 
was titled "John Jay at His Home." It was completed in 1938 during the 
WPA era. The rare artwork by realist du Bois is located in the Post Office 
lobby. On December 12, 1958, the United States Postal Service released 
a 15¢ Liberty Issue postage stamp honoring Jay.[103] High schools named 
after Jay are located in Cross River and Hopewell Junction, New York and 
San Antonio, Texas. Exceptional undergraduates at Columbia University are 
designated John Jay Scholars, and one of that university's undergraduate 
dormitories is known as John Jay Hall. In 1964, the City University of 
New York's College of Police Science was officially renamed the John Jay 
College of Criminal Justice. The John Jay Center on the campus of Robert 
Morris University and the John Jay Institute for Faith, Society & Law are 
also named for him.[104] John Jay's childhood home in Rye, "The Locusts" 
was immortalized by novelist James Fenimore Cooper in his first successful 
novel The Spy; this book about counterespionage during the Revolutionary 
War was based on a tale that Jay told Cooper from his own experience as 
a spymaster in Westchester County.[105][106] In Jay's honor, San Diego 
Padres' outfielder Jon Jay has, at various times, been nicknamed "The Federalist", 
