John Earl Madden (born April 10, 1936)[1] is a former American football 
player in the National Football League, a former Super Bowl-winning head 
coach with the Oakland Raiders in the American Football Conference of the 
NFL, and a former color commentator for NFL telecasts. In 2006, he was 
inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in recognition of his coaching 
career. He is also widely known for the long-running Madden NFL video game 
series he has endorsed and fronted since 1988. Madden worked as a color 
analyst for all four major networks: CBS (1979–1993), Fox (1994–2001), 
ABC (2002–2005), and NBC (2006–2009). Madden has also written several books 
and has served as a commercial pitchman for various products and retailers. 
He retired from broadcasting on April 16, 2009 to spend more time with 
his family.[2] John Madden was born in Austin, Minnesota to Earl Russell 
Madden and Mary Margaret (Flaherty) Madden. His father, an auto mechanic, 
moved the Madden family to Daly City, California, a suburb of San Francisco, 
when he was young.[3] He attended middle school at Our Lady of Perpetual 
Help, and then Jefferson High School, graduating in 1954. John Madden married 
Virginia Fields on December 26, 1959. They live in Pleasanton, California, 
and have two sons, Joseph and Michael. Joe played football at Brown University 
and Mike attended Harvard University where he started as receiver on the 
football team.[4] A football standout in high school, Madden then played 
college football at Oregon[5] and the College of San Mateo before transferring 
to Cal Poly in San Luis Obispo, where he played both offense and defense 
for the Mustangs while earning a BS in Education in 1959 and an MA in Education 
in 1961.[6][7] He won all-conference honors at offensive tackle, and was 
a catcher on Cal Poly's baseball team. Madden was drafted in the 21st round 
(244th overall) by the NFL's Philadelphia Eagles in 1958, but a knee injury 
in training camp a year later ended his playing career before he ever got 
a chance to play professionally. Madden recounted how he became involved 
with coaching: "I got hurt in my rookie year with the Philadelphia Eagles 
- a knee injury - and I couldn't play. While I was rehabbing, Norm Van 
Brocklin would be watching films and would explain what was happening. 
I ended up with a degree in teaching, and my love for football meshed with 
teaching."[8] In 1960, he became an assistant coach at Allan Hancock College 
in Santa Maria, and was promoted to head coach in 1962. Following the 1963 
season, he was hired as a defensive assistant coach at San Diego State, 
where he served through 1966. During that final campaign, the Aztecs were 
ranked among the top small college in the country. While at SDSU, Madden 
coached under Don Coryell, whom Madden credits as being an influence on 
his coaching and who he feels will one day be included in the Hall of Fame.[9] 
Building on that success, Madden was hired by Al Davis as linebackers coach 
for the AFL's Oakland Raiders in 1967, putting him in the Sid Gillman coaching 
tree. He helped the team reach Super Bowl II that season. A year later, 
after Raiders head coach John Rauch resigned to take the same position 
with the Buffalo Bills, Madden was named the Raiders' head coach on February 
4, 1969, becoming professional football's youngest head coach at the age 
of 32. According to former Raiders coach Dennis Allen, John Madden was 
arguably the best Oakland Raiders coach in the history of the team. Madden's 
Raiders reached and lost five AFC Title games in seven years, which left 
the Raiders with the same image that the Dallas Cowboys had previously 
had—as a team unable to "win the big one." Despite a 12–1–1 mark in 1969, 
the team lost 17–7 to the Kansas City Chiefs in the final American Football 
League championship game. Three years later, what appeared to be a last-minute 
victory over the Steelers instead became a part of football lore when Franco 
Harris' "Immaculate Reception" gave Pittsburgh a 13–7 win. Then, in 1974, 
after defeating the two-time, and defending Super Bowl champion Miami Dolphins 
in dramatic fashion, the Raiders lost again to the Steelers in the AFC 
Championship game. In 1975 NFL season, the Raiders went 11–3 and lost to 
the Pittsburgh Steelers in the AFC Championship game on a frozen field 
16–10. In 1976, the Raiders went 13–1 in the regular season, and escaped 
the first round of the playoffs with a dramatic and controversial victory 
over the New England Patriots. In the second round of the playoffs they 
defeated the Steelers for the AFC Championship. On January 9, 1977, Madden's 
Raiders finally captured their first Super Bowl with a convincing 32–14 
win over the Minnesota Vikings. The Raiders lost the AFC Championship Game 
in 1977 to the Denver Broncos with Madden battling an ulcer for most of 
the season. He retired after the 1978 season when the Raiders failed to 
make the playoffs. Madden retired as a Super Bowl winning head coach and 
was the youngest coach ever to reach 100 career regular season victories, 
a record he compiled in only ten full seasons of coaching at the age of 
42. He is still the coach with the most wins in Raiders history. Madden's 
overall winning percentage including playoff games ranks second in league 
history. He won a Super Bowl and never had a losing season as a head coach. 
Madden had a winning record as a head coach against Tom Landry, Don Shula, 
Chuck Noll and Bud Grant, who are generally regarded as the top coaches 
of his era.[10] From 1979 through 2008, Madden worked as a color commentator/analyst 
on NFL games for all four major American television networks. After working 
lower profile contests for CBS during his first two years, he was elevated 
to the network's top football broadcasting duo with Pat Summerall in 1981, 
replacing Tom Brookshier. Prior to teaming with Summerall on CBS, Madden 
was paired with a variety of announcers, such as Dick Stockton, Frank Glieber 
and Gary Bender. The team of Madden and Summerall would go on to call eight 
Super Bowls together (five for CBS and three for Fox). On occasions in 
which Summerall was unavailable (during the CBS years, Summerall was normally 
scheduled to commentate on U.S. Open tennis tournament during the early 
weeks of the NFL season), Madden would team with the likes of Vin Scully[11] 
and subsequently, Verne Lundquist. On their final CBS telecast together 
(the NFC Championship Game on January 23, 1994), Madden told Summerall 
that while CBS may no longer have the NFL (for the time being, as CBS would 
eventually regain NFL rights in 1998 by outbidding NBC for the rights to 
AFC telecasts), at least they have the memories. On ABC's final Monday 
Night Football telecast in 2005, Madden used a similar choice of words. 
When the Fox Network gained the rights in 1994, the pair shifted to that 
network with Madden reportedly making US$5 million per year.[12] Following 
his appearance during Super Bowl XXXVI in February 2002, Madden left Fox 
to become a commentator on ABC's Monday Night Football, working with longtime 
play-by-play announcer Al Michaels. In 2005, Dick Ebersol, president of 
NBC Sports, announced that Madden would do color commentary for NBC's Sunday 
night NFL games beginning with the 2006 season, making him the first sportscaster 
to have worked for all of the "Big Four" U.S. broadcast television networks. 
Madden also reached the milestone of calling the Super Bowl on all of the 
"Big Four" broadcast networks when he appeared on the 2009 broadcast of 
Super Bowl XLIII. On October 13, 2008, NBC announced that Madden would 
not be traveling to the October 19 Sunday Night Football Tampa Bay Buccaneers–Seattle 
Seahawks game in Tampa, Florida, marking the end of Madden's 476-weekend 
streak of consecutive broadcast appearances. Madden, who travels by bus 
because of a fear of flying (see below), decided to take the week off because 
he had traveled from Jacksonville to San Diego, and would have had to go 
back to Florida before returning to his Northern California home. Madden 
was replaced by Football Night in America studio analyst Cris Collinsworth 
for the game,[13] and returned for the following telecast on November 2, 
2008 in Indianapolis (until 2011 the NFL did not schedule Sunday night 
games for one week in October, as not to overlap with the World Series 
taking place roughly around the same time). On April 16, 2009, Madden officially 
announced his retirement as an NFL broadcaster after 30 years, saying "It's 
time."[14][15] Former Cincinnati Bengals wide receiver Cris Collinsworth 
was announced as his replacement. Madden's lively and flamboyant delivery 
has won him critical acclaim and fourteen Sports Emmy Awards for Outstanding 
Sports Event Analyst. His announcing style is punctuated with interjections 
such as "Boom!", "Whap!", "Bang!" and "Doink!"', and his use of the telestrator, 
a device which allows him to superimpose his light-penned diagrams of football 
plays over video footage. Madden's use of the telestrator helped to popularize 
the technology, which has become a staple of television coverage of all 
sports. Madden was also known for working the annual Thanksgiving Day games 
for CBS and later Fox. He would award a turkey or turducken to players 
of the winning team. He would also award a turkey drumstick to players 
of the winning team during the Thanksgiving Day game, often bringing out 
a "nuclear turkey" with as many as eight drumsticks on it for the occasion. 
The drumsticks served as an odd take on the "player of the game" award. 
Madden stopped announcing the Thanksgiving Day games after he moved to 
ABC in 2002, but the tradition continued. Fox, CBS, and the NFL Network 
present the Galloping Gobbler, the All-Iron Award, and the Pudding Pie 
Award, respectively, to the game's "Most Valuable" player. Of all those 
players, I think Jack Youngblood...personified the All-Madden team spirit... 
In 1984, Madden took the advice of NFL coach John Robinson—a friend of 
Madden's since elementary school—and created the "All-Madden" team, a group 
of players whom Madden thought represented football and played the game 
the way he thought it should be played.[17] Madden continued to pick the 
All-Madden team through the 2001 season when he left to move to ABC and 
Monday Night Football. Madden added his "Haul of Fame" for his favorite 
players,[18] he created a special 10th Anniversary All-Madden team in 1994, 
an All-Madden Super Bowl Team in 1997 and an All-Time All-Madden team in 
2000. All Madden was also the title of Madden's third best-selling book 
(after Hey, Wait A Minute I Wrote a Book and One Knee Equals Two Feet).[1] 
Madden explained, "What does it mean to be 'All-Madden'? It's a whole range 
of things. For defensive linemen and linebackers, it's about Jack Youngblood 
playing with a busted leg, Lawrence Taylor wreaking havoc on the offense 
and Reggie White making the other guy wish he put a little more in the 
collection plate at church. It's about a guy who's got a dirty uniform, 
mud on his face and grass in the ear hole of his helmet."[19] ABC Sports 
stated, "the All-Madden Team has become synonymous with greatness." Other 
NFL greats who have been on various All-Madden teams are Howie Long, Dan 
Hampton, Ronnie Lott,[20] Richard Dent,[20] Jackie Slater,[20] Andre Tippett, 
Walter Payton,[20] Mark Bavaro[20] and Bruce Smith among many others. Madden's 
fear of flying (aviophobia) is well known. Two different theories have 
developed as to the cause.[citation needed] One theory relates to the October 
29, 1960, Cal Poly football team plane crash that claimed the lives of 
sixteen players, the team’s student manager, and a football booster. Having 
graduated from Cal Poly only two years prior, Madden lost many friends 
in the accident. However, it is known that Madden flew up until 1979, when 
he had a panic attack on a flight originating in Tampa. The details, nature 
and extent of this panic attack are not known. Madden, however, stated 
once in an interview that his fears were not about turbulence, flying, 
or heights, but primarily claustrophobia.[21] He also once noted that when 
he did fly, traveling all over the United States, it did not allow him 
to see anything. During his Saturday Night Live hosting appearance in the 
early 1980s, a short film aired depicting Madden making the journey to 
New York to host SNL by train. In the mid-1980s Madden was a frequent rider 
on Amtrak's Lake Shore Limited.[22] However, beginning in 1987, Greyhound 
bus lines supplied a custom mci 102A3 bus and drivers for three years in 
exchange for advertising and speaking events was a originally painted in 
Greyhound colors and drivers had to compete for the positions.[23] Madden 
traveled around the country in a customized coach-bus, which he has dubbed 
the Madden Cruiser. The Madden Cruiser shells are manufactured by Motor 
Coach Industries. The coach sponsors over the years have included Walker 
Advantage Muffler and Outback Steakhouse. The most recent coach, Madden's 
sixth, was built in 2005. Madden never did commentary for the Pro Bowl, 
which was held in Hawaii during every year of his broadcasting career. 
Likewise, Madden never called any preseason game held outside of North 
America, even when his play-by-play partner was on the telecast. Madden 
found an unexpected use for his bus in New York after the September 11, 
2001 attacks, when he provided transportation for former ice skating champion 
Peggy Fleming, whose flight home to Los Gatos, California had been grounded.[24] 
In contrast to Madden's own fear of flying, his wife Virginia holds a private 
pilot license.[25] Madden does a six to nine-minute on-air chat on KCBS 
radio in San Francisco with the sports and news anchors every weekday morning 
at 8:15 am Pacific Time, with recorded repeats throughout the day. Madden 
has also aired sports commentaries in syndication on the Westwood One radio 
network in the United States. Madden has appeared in a variety of radio 
and television commercials including Ace Hardware,[30] Outback Steakhouse 
(the current corporate sponsor of the Maddencruiser—see above under Fear 
of flying), Verizon Wireless, Rent-A-Center, Miller Lite, Sirius Satellite 
Radio and Tinactin. In particular, the Miller beer advertisements cemented 
Madden's image in the public eye as a bumbling but lovable personality. 
Madden had a brief movie role playing himself in the 1994 youth football 
film Little Giants and in the 2000 film The Replacements. He appeared in 
a 1999 episode of The Simpsons, "Sunday, Cruddy Sunday". Madden also hosted 
an episode of NBC's Saturday Night Live in 1982 with musical guest Jennifer 
Holliday. As well, Madden was featured in the Irish band U2's music video 
for the song "Stuck in a Moment You Can't Get Out Of". In the video, Madden 
is commenting on a fake football game featuring Paul Hewson as the kicker 
who misses a short kick to win the game. He makes a similar appearance 
in the video for Paul Simon's 1972 single "Me and Julio Down by the Schoolyard",[31] 
in which he attempts to teach football fundamentals to a group of kids 
playing a pickup game. He has also recorded radio and television public 
service announcements for a number of causes, including NBC/Ad Council's 
The More You Know in 2009 and Vascular Cures (formerly the Pacific Vascular 
Research Foundation) in Redwood City, California (based on the health experiences 
of his wife, Virginia Madden). To minimize travel to studios, Madden built 
Goal Line Productions in Pleasanton, Calif., a facility that is now managed 
by his son, Joe. The facility features a 7,000-square-foot (650 m2) sound 
stage, one of the largest in Northern California. John Madden lends his 
voice, personality, and name to the Madden NFL series of football video 
games, published by EA Sports/Electronic Arts since 1988. Entries in the 
series have consistently been best-sellers, to the extent that they have 
even spawned TV shows featuring competition between players of the games. 
Despite Madden's retirement as a broadcaster in 2009, he still continues 
to lend his name and provide creative input to the series,[32] which is 
so popular that he is better known as the face of Madden than as a Super 
Bowl-winning coach and broadcaster.[33] Madden views the game as an educational 
tool. During initial planning conversations with Electronic Arts founder 
Trip Hawkins in 1984, Madden envisioned the program as a tool for teaching 
and testing plays.[33][34] He stated in 2012 that Madden NFL was "a way 
for people to learn the game [of football] and participate in the game 
at a pretty sophisticated level".[35] Pound sign (#) denotes interim head coach. 
