John Mozeliak (born January 18, 1969) is the current Senior Vice President 
and General Manager (GM) of the St. Louis Cardinals of Major League Baseball 
(MLB). So far his only GM position, the Cardinals hired Mozeliak as the 
twelfth GM in franchise history after the 2007 season after serving and 
training as Walt Jocketty's assistant, despite lacking a professional baseball 
playing background. The winner of three Executive of the Year awards, Mozeliak 
has overseen the Cardinals make six playoff appearances, win one World 
Series title, and two National League pennants. Each season from 2008–16, 
they have finished with a winning record. The Cardinals' minor league farm 
system has received numerous accolades following the volume of prospects 
that have succeeded at the major league level, including Baseball America 
bestowing the franchise with the Organization of the Year Award in 2011 
and 2013. Mozeliak is signed through the 2018 season. Mozeliak attended 
Fairview High School in Boulder, Colorado. He played for the school's baseball 
team as a pitcher and first baseman. He also played American Legion baseball.[1] 
Mozeliak attended the University of Arizona before ultimately graduating 
from the University of Colorado at Boulder.[2] In 1993, Jay Darnell, the 
Colorado Rockies' video coordinator, introduced Mozeliak to Bryn Smith, 
pitcher for the Rockies. Smith was looking for a location to go fly fishing. 
A few days after Mozeliak took Smith fly fishing, the Rockies invited Mozeliak 
to serve as a batting practice pitcher, since they needed someone who could 
throw left handed. Dante Bichette took a liking to Mozeliak, and they created 
a clubhouse job for Mozeliak. He began to work with Bob Gebhard, the Rockies' 
general manager (GM), and Walt Jocketty, the assistant GM.[1][2] When the 
St. Louis Cardinals hired Jocketty as their GM in 1995, Mozeliak went to 
St. Louis as well. He served as an assistant within the scouting department 
and later spent five seasons as Jocketty's assistant GM.[1] He became the 
assisting scouting director in 1998. The next season, Mozeliak was promoted 
to scouting director and oversaw the drafting of talent such as Albert 
Pujols and Yadier Molina.[3] He garnered much attention as a major up-and-coming 
GM in the industry and interviewed with the Cincinnati Reds and Houston 
Astros.[4] On October 3, 2007, Chairman of the Board of Directors Bill 
DeWitt announced that the Cardinals "had cordially and respectfully" parted 
ways with Jocketty based on philosophical differences of player development.[5] 
DeWitt named Mozeliak the interim GM. Dating back to the year before, tension 
arose after Jeff Luhnow, now the Astros' GM, was promoted to vice president 
of amateur scouting and player development. After more than a decade as 
GM, Luhnow's promotion tacitly signaled he had usurped that sphere of Jocketty's 
authority.[6] While other candidates interviewed for the GM position, it 
appeared Cleveland Indians assistant GM Chris Antonetti was the early favorite. 
However, Indians ownership improved Antonetti's offer to take over the 
full GM position and enticed him to stay. On the evening of October 30, 
2007, Mozeliak accepted the Cardinals' offer and the team formally introduced 
him as the new GM the next day.[7] One of Mozeliak's first major moves 
was to trade iconic center fielder Jim Edmonds to the San Diego Padres 
for third baseman David Freese on December 15, 2007. Although stating regret 
at first over trading the popular but often-injured Edmonds, Freese later 
proved to be integral in the Cardinals' 2011 season.[8] In 2009, Mozeliak 
acquired slugger Matt Holliday in a trade with the Oakland Athletics and 
signed him to the richest contract in team history the following January, 
valued at $116 million.[9][10] Through the beginning of August 2013, Holliday 
has produced a .900 OPS at a league-average adjusted OPS rate of 145 as 
a Cardinal, compared to 136 for his career.[11] On September 26, the Cardinals 
clinched their first division title during Mozeliak's tenure as GM against 
the Colorado Rockies.[12] However, they lost to the Los Angeles Dodgers 
in the NLDS.[13] When Holliday was a free agent the following offseason, 
DeWitt became frustrated with agent Scott Boras and walked away from negotiations. 
However, Mozeliak, who had developed a strong working relationship with 
DeWitt, persuaded him to sign Holliday for seven years at $17 million per 
year.[14] After Edgar Rentería manned shortstop for the Cardinals from 
1999 to 2004, he left for the Boston Red Sox via free agency. The Cardinals 
found difficulty filling the position. In 2009, a trade involving Mark 
Worrell and Luke Gregerson brought Khalil Greene from the Padres. With 
poor performance and a $6.5 million salary, he took time off in May and 
June. It was revealed that he may have attempting to inflict injury upon 
himself, indicative of social anxiety disorder. Greene appeared in 77 games 
that season, batting just .200 with six home runs and 24 runs batted in. 
That was the last time he appeared in the major leagues.[15] The Cardinals 
announced that Mozeliak endorsed a new three-year contract extension with 
the team through 2013 on July 15, 2010.[16] The following offseason, Mozeliak 
created a stir––even drawing ridicule––for inking 34-year-old Lance Berkman 
to a one-year, $8 million contract on December 4. Due to his 2010 results 
of a .248 batting average with 14 home runs and 58 RBIs in 122 games with 
the Houston Astros and New York Yankees, opinions circulated that he was 
too old to continue to produce at his former levels.[17] However, Berkman 
dramatically improved his physical shape in the offseason. Early the next 
season, hitting coach Mark McGwire corrected a flaw in Berkman's swing 
that had been introduced by leg injuries and he responded with a .301 batting 
average, 31 home runs and 94 RBIs.[18] His 164 OPS+ was the highest of 
his career and his accolades for the year included an All-Star appearance, 
the NL Comeback Player of the Year award and seventh place in the MVP voting. 
Mozeliak brandished what proved to be the one of the exceptional in-season 
moves to shape the 2011 season on July 27. He traded the highly regarded 
but troubled center fielder Colby Rasmus, relievers Trever Miller, P. J. 
Walters and Brian Tallet to the Toronto Blue Jays for starter Edwin Jackson, 
relievers Octavio Dotel and Marc Rzepczynski, outfielder Corey Patterson 
and three players to be named or cash.[19][20] Still 10.5 games short of 
the wild card berth after 130 games on August 25, the Cardinals ended the 
season on a 22-9 run while capitalizing on the Atlanta Braves' collapse 
to avoid elimination on the season's final day, capping one of Major League 
Baseball's epic regular-season comebacks.[21] Dotel and Rzepczynski proved 
to factor significantly in making up the 10.5 games as they helped stabilize 
questionable bullpen performance. Dotel posted a 3.28 ERA and struck out 
32 of the 96 batters he faced.[22] Rzepczynski posted a 3.97 ERA.[23] Jackson 
started twelve games for the Cardinals and posted a 3.58 ERA, winning five 
games and losing two.[24] The 10.5 games-won deficit is also the highest-surmounted 
at 130 games in MLB history. In the postseason––the Cardinals' second appearance 
during Mozeliak's tenure as GM––Freese set the single postseason RBI record 
with 21. He also salvaged the Cardinals from elimination in the World Series 
against the Texas Rangers by driving home the tying run on the final strike 
in the ninth inning of Game 6 –– which was accomplished again later that 
game. Tying the score twice on liquidation strikes in one game was the 
first such occurrence in World Series history.[25] Berkman became the second 
batter to tie the game on the team's final strike in the ninth inning or 
later with a two-run single in the tenth. Freese then halted the game in 
the eleventh with a home run off Mark Lowe.[26] Berkman and Freese became 
just the third and fourth hitters in World Series history to knock game-tying 
hits where the alternative was elimination.[27] Driven primarily by the 
Rasmus and Freese trades and the Berkman acquisition, Mozeliak concocted 
his first World Series title culminating in a game that "ranks among the 
greatest games in Fall Classic history" and "one of the greatest thrillers 
in baseball history."[26][28] Following the 2011 World Series, the Cardinals 
found themselves in the position of having to negotiate to re-sign iconic 
first baseman Albert Pujols when he filed for free agency on December 1. 
The Cardinals had offered $198 million over nine years the previous January. 
After the season concluded, the Cardinals reopened their bid with five 
years and $130 million.[29] Other teams reportedly pursuing him were the 
Miami Marlins and two "mystery teams." The Marlins' offers were for nine 
years, then ten, but at first neither monetary figures were disclosed nor 
information was available on whether a no-trade clause would be included.[30] 
The Cardinals increased their offer to $200 million over ten years, then 
$220 million; however, the two unidentified teams eclipsed the initial 
offer. Miami offered $200 million then $225 million.[31][32] Pujols then 
signed with one of the two anonymous teams on December 8 which had been 
revealed through rumors just a few days before –– the Los Angeles Angels 
of Anaheim –– for $254 million over ten years.[33] After signing with the 
Angels, Albert Pujols' wife, Diedre Pujols, commented on a St. Louis radio 
show that what the Cardinals had offered was an "'insult" and that they 
were "confused" after being told "'we want you to be a Cardinal for life.'"[29] 
Even so, Pujols' performance decline started before he became a free agent: 
in 2012, he finished in career lows in multiple categories, and in 2013, 
plantar fasciitis cut his season short.[34] Since then, Mozeliak's decision 
to let Pujols walk has paid off, as with the money he saved by not signing 
him, he extended ace Adam Wainwright and star catcher Yadier Molina. Also, 
with the two Compensation Picks the St. Louis Cardinals received from the 
Angels, they drafted 2013 postseason hero Michael Wacha and a promising 
young hitter who as the Cardinals Top Prospect after 2014 according to 
MLB.com, Stephen Piscotty. Despite the Cardinals' major league success 
in the 21st century spanning well before Mozeliak's tenure as GM –– they 
have just one losing season and nine playoff appearances since 2000 –– 
the farm system had lagged behind until more recent seasons. Between 2000 
and 2007, the highest rank the farm system garnered was 21st; between 2002 
and 2005 it "ranked 30th, 28th, 28th and 30th."[35][36] After 2011, Baseball 
America bestowed the Cardinals franchise with their first Organization 
of the Year award.[37] Seventeen of the 25 players on the 2011 playoff 
roster were players who had spent their entire careers with the Cardinals.[38] 
ESPN's Keith Law and Baseball Prospectus also ranked the Cardinals organization 
#1 for the 2013 season.[39][40] After losing shortstop Rafael Furcal to 
injury in 2012, the Cardinals called up Pete Kozma to replace Furcal. Noted 
for his defense, Kozma had shown a poor track record in the minor leagues 
as a hitter, producing a .652 on-base plus slugging percentage (OPS) in 
671 minor league games.[41] However, during his major league call-up in 
2012, he batted .333 with a .952 OPS in 82 plate appearances. His skillful 
hitting continued in the playoffs, as he hit an RBI single in Game 5 against 
the Washington Nationals in the NLDS that ultimately proved to be the game 
and series winner, allowing the Cardinals to advance to the NLCS. Kozma 
became the starting shortstop the next season, but could not sustain his 
improved hitting in the Major Leagues, slumping to a .548 OPS.[42] In the 
following World Series against the Boston Red Sox, a two-play error contributed 
to a Red Sox' Game 1 victory on the way to the Red Sox winning the Series.[43] 
On February 14, 2013, the Cardinals extended Mozeliak's contract by three 
years to end after the 2016 season.[44] Late in spring training 2013, right-handed 
starting pitcher Adam Wainwright agreed to a five-year, $97.5 million extension 
that runs through 2018, the richest contract the Cardinals have awarded 
to a pitcher.[45] That spring, the Cardinals also signed first baseman 
Allen Craig to a five-year, $32 million contract. After making it to the 
2013 World Series only to lose to the Boston Red Sox, the Cardinals addressed 
weaknesses the following offseason at shortstop and center field. First, 
they traded Freese and relief pitcher Fernando Salas to the Los Angeles 
Angels of Anaheim for center fielder Peter Bourjos and right fielder Randal 
Grichuk.[46] Just two days later, they signed free agent shortstop Jhonny 
Peralta to a four-year, $53 million contract.[47] The Cardinals still had 
yet to find consistency at shortstop since the days of Rentería, and Peralta 
was seen as a player who could bring that consistency. However, the signing 
drew scrutiny because he had served a 50-game suspension for his connection 
to the Biogenesis of America scandal earlier in the season. Fellow players 
such as Brad Ziegler of the Arizona Diamondbacks publicly complained that 
the 50-game suspension was not enough of a deterrent, because it appeared 
to fail to prevent players who violated the collective bargaining agreement's 
banned substances use policy to receive compensation for their performances 
equal to those who had not been found to violate the policy. Mozeliak defended 
the contract, stating that the Cardinals were not self-appointed "morality 
police." He further explained that "character and makeup are something 
we weigh into our decision-making. In his case, he admitted what he did, 
he took responsibility for it. I feel like he has paid for his mistakes, 
and obviously if he were to make another one, then it would be a huge disappointment."[48] 
The Cardinals signed All-Star second baseman Matt Carpenter to a six-year, 
$52 million extension on March 6, 2014. Included was an option for 2020 
worth $18.5 million. The year prior, he led the major leagues in hits, 
runs scored, and doubles while batting .318 and becoming a regular at a 
position he had yet to play as professional. Mozeliak cited his work ethic 
as another factor in the extension.[49] On April 12, 2014, the Cardinals 
announced they had extended Mozeliak's contract by two years through the 
2018 season.[50] They won the division this season but fell to the Giants 
in the NLCS. Reports surfaced on June 16, 2015, that the Federal Bureau 
of Investigation (FBI) were reviewing an alleged incident involving Cardinals' 
front office officials hacking into the Houston Astros' database of players, 
scouting reports and proprietary statistics. It was regarded as the first 
known case of corporate espionage involving computer network hacking in 
professional sports.[51] On September 19, 2015, the Cardinals became the 
first team in MLB to clinch a playoff spot that season. It also extended 
a franchise record of five consecutive seasons of reaching the postseason, 
a record which the club had set the previous season.[52] Mozeliak, his 
wife Julie, daughter Allison and son Will reside in St. Louis. He is the 
