John Martin Kruk (born February 9, 1961) is an American former Major League 
Baseball player and current baseball analyst for ESPN. Kruk was raised 
in Keyser, West Virginia. He played baseball at Keyser High School, at 
Potomac State College, and at Allegany Community College, where Kruk played 
for Junior College Hall of Fame Coach Steve Bazarnic. Kruk was the first 
Major Leaguer to come out of Allegany and has been followed by four others 
(Stan Belinda, Steve Kline, Joe Beimel and Scott Seabol).[citation needed] 
Kruk signed as a #3 Special Draft selection on June 13, 1981 with scout 
Hank Zacharias.[1] He began his professional career with the San Diego 
Padres after being drafted in 1981. He played in such outposts as Walla 
Walla, Reno, Beaumont, and Las Vegas, before making his debut with the 
Padres in 1986. In this same year he played in the Liga Mexicana del Pacifico 
with the Mexicali Eagles. Kruk helped the Mexicali Eagles win both the 
League championship title and Caribbean Series Baseball Title.[citation 
needed] Kruk's breakout year was 1987 with the Padres. He hit .313 with 
20 home runs and 91 RBI, and stole 18 bases, showing surprising speed for 
someone of his build, although he was caught ten times. He was featured 
as a backup on the National League All-Star Team in the Nintendo game R.B.I. 
Baseball. On April 13, 1987, Marvell Wynne, Tony Gwynn, and Kruk became 
the first players in major league history to open their half of the 1st 
inning with three consecutive solo home runs in a 13-6 loss to the San 
Francisco Giants.[2] In October 1987, Kruk rented a house in San Diego 
with two other men: Roy Plummer, a high school friend, and Vernon (Jay) 
Hafer, an acquaintance of Plummer's.[3] They socialized and partied together, 
with Plummer almost always picking up the check.[3] Unbeknownst to Kruk, 
who moved out in November to play winter ball in Mexico, Plummer was funding 
the group's lifestyle by moonlighting as an armed robber, with Hafer serving 
as his getaway driver.[3] The FBI informed Kruk of his roommates' criminal 
activities during spring training in February 1988, approaching him before 
batting practice with a photo of Plummer taken during a bank robbery.[3] 
According to the FBI, Plummer believed that Kruk had turned him in to the 
police, and Kruk lived in fear of reprisal until Plummer was apprehended 
on September 19, 1988.[3] Kruk has stated that the ongoing stress from 
the episode negatively affected his on-field performance that season.[3] 
On June 2, 1989, the Padres dealt Kruk, along with Randy Ready, to the 
Philadelphia Phillies for Chris James. After being dealt, Kruk blossomed 
into an All-Star as the team used him primarily at first base. Kruk played 
in the All-Star Game in 1991, 1992, and 1993. In his 1993 appearance at 
the Midsummer Classic, he had a memorable at bat when he flailed wildly 
at 98 mile per hour fastballs from Seattle Mariners pitcher Randy Johnson. 
Johnson's first pitch flew over Kruk's head to the backstop, leading Kruk 
to feign heart palpitations and remark "That boy throws too hard and he's 
too wild. He could kill someone."[4] Kruk, who batted .316/.430/.475 in 
1993, was also a member of the Phillies' "Macho Row" which led the team 
to the World Series against the Toronto Blue Jays; in the losing effort, 
Kruk batted .348/.500/.391 in the Series. During spring training in 1994, 
Kruk was diagnosed with testicular cancer (ultimately resulting in the 
removal of one testicle) after an errant pickoff throw from teammate Mitch 
Williams hit him in the groin and broke his protective cup. Additionally, 
weight gain and the astroturf at Veterans Stadium exacerbated his knee 
problems. After the 1994 season, Kruk was granted free agency.[citation 
needed] Moving to the American League to serve as a designated hitter, 
Kruk signed with the Chicago White Sox, batting .308/.399/.390. On July 
30, 1995, in a game at Baltimore's Camden Yards stadium, Kruk singled and 
retired standing on first base, taking himself out of the game never to 
play again.[5] Kruk finished his 10-year career with a .300 batting average 
and exactly 100 home runs.[5] Kruk is one of only five major league baseball 
players to retire with exactly 100 home runs (as of 2012).[6] A quotable 
character throughout his career, who later wrote a book called I Ain't 
an Athlete, Lady published in 1994, Kruk turned to broadcasting and commenting 
on the game. He has since worked for Major League Baseball on Fox, The 
Best Damn Sports Show Period, and local telecasts in Philadelphia. In 2004, 
he was hired by ESPN as an analyst on Baseball Tonight. He also writes 
a column called Chewing the Fat on ESPN.com. Kruk also coached for a year 
within the Phillies organization. He coached the Phillies' AA minor league 
team in Reading, Pennsylvania during the 2001 season prior to his broadcasting 
career. Kruk went on to have a few acting roles in film and television, 
including the 1996 film The Fan, The Sandlot: Heading Home, American Pastime, 
and the Aqua Teen Hunger Force episode "Sirens," where he voiced himself. 
Kruk also appeared in the Sawyer Brown music video "Round Here".[citation 
needed] Kruk has been a resident of Mount Laurel Township, New Jersey.[7] 
He also appears in MLB on ESPN Commercials where Kruk himself is part of 
moments in baseball history; for example, an old briefcase belonging to 
Kruk buried in the infield dirt containing a rotten sandwich caused the 
bugs to attack Karl Ravech dressed up as Yankees pitcher Joba Chamberlain, 
mocking game 2 of the 2007 ALDS between the Yankees and the Indians. Kruk 
coached the National League team in the Taco Bell All-Star Legends & Celebrity 
Softball Game in Anaheim, CA on July 12, 2010.[citation needed] As an ESPN 
analyst, his eating habits are well documented, as described by Buck Showalter:[8] 
Kruk, along with Steve Phillips and Gary Thorne, was a commentator on the 
