As player As manager John Joseph McGraw (April 7, 1873 – February 25, 1934), 
nicknamed "Little Napoleon" and "Mugsy", was a Major League Baseball (MLB) 
player and long-time manager of the New York Giants. He was elected to 
the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1937. While primarily a third baseman throughout 
his career, he also played shortstop and the outfield in the major leagues. 
Much lauded as a player, McGraw was one of the standard-bearers of dead-ball 
era baseball. Known for his quick temper but also being a great baseball 
mind, scientifically as well as in bending the playing rules, especially 
in the days of less than four umpires, McGraw was a key player on the pennant-winning 
1890s Baltimore Orioles, and later applied his talents and temper while 
a captain (playing)-manager, transitioning in 1902 to the New York Giants, 
with whom he became entirely a bench manager in 1907 until his retirement 
in 1932. Even with his success and notoriety as a player, he is best known 
for his managing, especially since it was with a team so popular as the 
New York Giants. His total of 2,763 victories in that capacity ranks second 
overall behind only Connie Mack; he still holds the National League record 
with 2,669 wins in the senior circuit.[1] McGraw is widely held to be "the 
best player to become a great manager" in the history of baseball.[2] McGraw 
also held the MLB record for most ejections by a manager (132) until Bobby 
Cox broke the record in 2007. McGraw's father, whose name was also John, 
and his older brother Michael immigrated from Ireland in 1856. Their last 
name is spelled "McGrath" but pronounced McGraw. He and his brother had 
arrived in time for the Civil War, and were drawn into the conflict as 
part of the Union army. Shortly after the war, he married and McGraw's 
older half-sister was born. John McGraw, Sr.'s first wife died, and he 
began moving around looking for work—a search that ultimately led him to 
Truxton, New York, in 1871. It was there that the elder John McGraw married 
young Ellen Comerfort. They had the younger John McGraw on April 7, 1873. 
The younger John McGraw was named "John" after his father, and "Joseph" 
after his grandfather back in Ireland. Even as a baby, young Johnny (as 
he was called) had raven hair, and eyes so dark that many people thought 
they were black. The boy's birth was the first of many to the family, as 
seven more children were born over the course of the next 12 years. The 
sheer number of children, combined with the paucity of well-compensated 
work led to hard times for the large family. It was often a struggle simply 
to have ample food for everyone and clothing enough to protect them all 
from the harsh winters of upstate New York. Tragedy struck the family in 
the summer of 1883, when a debilitating fever swept through the family. 
Johnny's half-sister Annie, 13, was the first to succumb, and his mother 
died shortly thereafter. By the time September 1883 had passed, three more 
McGraw children had died. The devastated family moved from their house 
in the country into a hotel in town. Johnny's father, understandably bitter, 
heaped even more responsibility on the young boy's shoulders, and had very 
little patience for his son's passion for baseball. He became abusive toward 
the boy, and later on in 1885 (still only 12 years old), Johnny ran away. 
From that day onward, he was raised by a kindly neighbor, Mary Goddard, 
under whose care he did quite well. During his years as part of Goddard's 
household, he took on several jobs that allowed him to save money to buy 
baseballs and the Spalding magazines that chronicled the rules changes 
in the rival major leagues of baseball, the National League and the American 
Association. He quickly became the best player on his school team. Shortly 
after his 16th birthday, he began playing for his town's team, the Truxton 
Grays, making a favorable impression on their manager, Albert "Bert" Kenney. 
While he could play any position, his ability to throw a big curveball 
made him the star pitcher. McGraw's relationship with Kenney precipitated 
his professional playing career.[3] In 1890, Kenney bought a portion of 
the new professional baseball franchise in Olean, New York. The team was 
to play in the newly formed New York–Pennsylvania League. In return for 
this investment, he was named player/manager of the team (this was called 
"captain" at the time). When McGraw heard the news, he immediately went 
to visit his former coach, begging him for a chance to play on the new 
team. Kenney had seen a lot of baseball by this time, and doubted that 
his former pitcher's one great pitch (the "outcurve", as it was called) 
would work as effectively against professional competition. Yet the man 
liked the teenaged McGraw very much, and when the boy insisted that he 
could play any position available, Kenney decided to give him a chance. 
McGraw signed his first contract to play professional baseball on April 
1, 1890. Olean was located 200 miles from Truxton, and this was the furthest 
the youngster had ever traveled from his hometown. His debut with his new 
team was inauspicious and short-lived. He began the season on the bench. 
After two days, Kenney inserted him into the starting lineup at third base. 
McGraw would describe the moment of his first fielding chance decades later: 
[F]or the life of me, I could not run to get it. It seemed like an age 
before I could get the ball in my hands and then, as I looked over to first, 
it seemed like the longest throw I ever had to make. The first baseman 
was the tallest in the league, but I threw the ball far over his head.[3] 
Seven more errors in nine more chances followed that day, a debacle that 
McGraw would not soon forget. After the team opened with no wins in six 
contests, Kenney and the other members of the ownership of the team—in 
the face of attendance that had dwindled to nearly nothing—were forced 
to overhaul the team. McGraw was given his release from the team, but Kenney 
also loaned him $70 and wished him luck if he wanted to try to catch on 
with another squad. McGraw could not bear the thought of going home a failure, 
as both his father and Mary Goddard had urged him to stay home and take 
a regular job, instead of chasing his dream of being a ballplayer. McGraw 
was resolute in his determination to make a name for himself as a professional 
baseball player, even if that meant struggling along in poverty for a time. 
Thus it was that he began his journey again, this time in Wellsville, New 
York, a team that played in the Western New York League. The level of baseball 
played there was the lowest of the minor leagues, and McGraw still struggled 
with his fielding. But during his 24-game stint with the club, he managed 
to hit .365, flashing a glimpse of what would later become his hitting 
prowess. On October 1, 1890, he finished his first season as a professional 
baseball player, still only 17 years old. After that first season, McGraw 
caught on with the traveling team of flamboyant promoter and fellow player, 
Al Lawson. Then only 21 himself, Lawson had gathered a ragtag group of 
players. These he took to Gainesville, Florida, in February 1891, hoping 
to play against major league teams who were training in the area. After 
defeating a team from Ocala a couple of times, Lawson began calling his 
team "the champions of Florida", and was able to convince the major league 
team from Cleveland to play against his team. It was during this game that 
McGraw gained his first notoriety as a player. The Cleveland squad was 
led by Denton True "Cy" Young, who had already become famous for his "cyclone"-like 
fastball. While the young Gainesville club lost the game 9–6, McGraw managed 
three doubles in five at-bats. He also scored half his team's six runs, 
crossing the plate three times. He played error-free defense at shortstop 
as well. Reports of the game—and his masterful play in it—made it to the 
Cleveland papers. McGraw's name began to become widely known after other 
daily papers as well as some national baseball weeklies, such as The Sporting 
News. Shortly (around a week), McGraw heard from many professional clubs 
requesting his services for the upcoming season. Lawson acted as the boy's 
agent and advised him to request $125 monthly and a $75 advance. The manager 
of the Cedar Rapids club in the Illinois–Iowa League was the first to wire 
the money and McGraw decided to make that his next stop. It was later claimed 
by several other clubs that McGraw had signed with them and had accepted 
their $75 advances. Though they threatened to sue, the clubs were never 
able to substantiate these claims and McGraw was allowed to play in the 
league. It was with the Canaries—as his Cedar Rapids club was called—that 
his greatest opportunity would arise. The Chicago White Stockings arrived 
in town for an exhibition game against McGraw's team. The White Stockings 
were led by Adrian "Cap" Anson, the major league's first true superstar. 
Unfazed by his famous opponents, the brash young McGraw led his teammates 
in giving their foes a hard time. During the game, on a field covered in 
mud, McGraw made a dazzling play at shortstop, leaping high to steal a 
hit from Cap Anson. After the game, Anson—impressed with the 18-year-old's 
solid play—asked him whether he would like to play for Chicago's team some 
day, which greatly increased the young man's confidence. When the call 
came for McGraw to report to the major leagues—the Baltimore club specifically—his 
teammates accompanied him to the rail station. McGraw arrived at Camden 
Station in Baltimore on August 24, 1891, still only 18 years old, but now 
a major league baseball player. McGraw described his new home upon his 
arrival as "a dirty, dreary, ramshackle sort of place."[4] McGraw made 
his major league debut in 1891 in the American Association with the Baltimore 
Orioles. After the Orioles moved to the National League a year later, he 
remained with the team until 1899.[6] During this time, McGraw established 
himself as an adept batsman with a keen eye, and an excellent third baseman. 
He walked over 100 times in a season three times, scored over 100 runs 
in a season five times, batted .320 or higher in every year from 1893 on, 
and also boasted an on-base percentage of .400 or higher in every year 
from 1893 on, including a career high mark of .547 in 1899. McGraw also 
took on managerial duties for the 1899 Oriole team and posted an 86–62 
record. McGraw's playing time diminished over the following years as he 
played for the St. Louis Cardinals (1900), the American League Baltimore 
Orioles (1901–1902) and the New York Giants (1902–1906). 1902 was his last 
season as a full-time player; he never played in more than 12 games or 
tallied more than 12 at bats in any season thereafter. He retired having 
accumulated 1,024 runs, 13 home runs, 462 RBI, a .334 batting average and 
a .466 on-base percentage. His .466 career on-base percentage remains third 
all-time behind only baseball legends Ted Williams (.482) and Babe Ruth 
(.474). McGraw's playing career in the 1890s was a focus of a 2004 book 
featuring Baltimore's tricky and dirty play and what might be called the 
players’ "anti-social" behavior during that decade – and, for sake of comparison, 
that book also chronicled and quantified the tricky and dirty play of the 
Chicago National League team from 1879 to 1897, under Cap Anson, its longtime 
captain-manager. The final chapter of that book, which is part of a series 
that methodically plowed through 19th-century baseball reporting, states, 
"On one hand, Baltimore seems to have been more entertaining than Chicago 
for a more compact period, especially because of the notoriety of John 
McGraw and wild stories of trickery that have been passed down. On the 
other, Chicago is more significant over the long haul, to show the game's 
progression from the 1870s to 1900. Where Baltimore is considered most 
significant is for its successful execution of baseball strategy in the 
1890s, such as bunting, sacrificing and using the hit and run."[7] Baltimore's 
play "included a mix of the perfectly ethical, like the hit and run, with 
tactics considered more dubious, such as excessive arguing with the umpire", 
to try to intimidate, which was a McGraw specialty.[8] McGraw's dirty play, 
as chronicled in the 2004 book, breaks down yearly as follows, for his 
19th-century playing career, which was the vast majority of it: 1891 0 
1892 0 1893 3 1894 2 (3 others probably not) 1895 1 1896 0 1897 8 1898 
3 1899 4 1900 2 Total 23 (3 others probably not)[9] Contrary to now-deleted 
Wikipedia prose that claimed that McGraw was "notorious for tripping, blocking 
and impeding a baserunner in any way he could while the umpire was distracted 
by the flight of the ball. His profligacy in employing such tactics may 
have led to additional umpires being assigned to monitor the basepaths", 
only 4 of the 23 plays involved McGraw blocking runners; most were when 
he was running the bases. To show how overblown the notion that McGraw 
blocked many runners is, at least overtly, after seeing the 5’7", 155-pound 
McGraw try to block Cleveland's Buck Ewing from third base, and Ewing "went 
into him with such force that he knocked McGraw off his feet", John B. 
Foster of the Cleveland Leader wrote, "McGraw is rather a light youngster 
to be so anxious to block men off the bases. Another year in the league 
is likely to teach him a sorry lesson."[10] That said, the 2004 book opined 
that at third base, McGraw "probably sometimes stood slightly in the path 
that runners wanted to take", to make it less likely they would score a 
run. The book cites a 1948 statement by former Baltimore teammate Sadie 
McMahon that said, "McGraw wouldn't give the bag to the base runner like 
they do today" and also that he would "stand on the inside corner and make 
the runner go around."[11] However, the 2004 book also noted that in the 
1890s, "some third basemen were well known for being tricky, including 
McGraw, Patsy Tebeau and Bill Joyce. Yet I [the author] found no reports 
of them doing "unobtrusive" blocking. There are reports of either overt 
blocking or nothing."[12] In his 1998 The League That Failed, David Voigt 
said McGraw believed that "only by mastering the rules could he circumvent 
them." So "he became a master at finding loopholes." The 2004 book found 
that observation fair, especially in the way he fouled off pitches to draw 
walks or tire the pitcher.[13] Voigt added, "Among tactics used by McGraw 
was the opportunistic base runner's trick of slapping a ball from an infielder's 
grasp, the psychological ploy of wearing wickedly sharpened spikes, and 
vocally abusing opposing players and umpires." The 2004 book concluded 
that of those tactics, "only vocal abuse seems to have been central to 
McGraw's style."[14] Voigt also wrote that McGraw had a reputation as a 
"dirty player" as of 1895 that was "the talk of the league." The 2004 book 
states, "It depends how you define ‘dirty.’ Voigt seems to mean playing 
dirty by the way he uses it, while newspapers hardly portrayed McGraw that 
way. By 1895, some were singling out McGraw for his mouth."[15] The 2004 
author stated, "In many newspapers of the 1890s, I found no generalizations 
about [McGraw's] dirty play. In 1899, the Pittsburg Leader said the following 
after he was "as quiet as a lamb" one day at Pittsburgh: "McGraw, although 
having the reputation of being a rowdy ball player, has never shown any 
rowdy tactics in this city."[16] The 2004 book also took issue with Noel 
Hynd's 1996 The Giants of the Polo Grounds, which has a "dirty-tricks-combined-with-flashing-spikes" 
reference to the Orioles. It concludes that "a more apt description of 
the 1890s Baltimore team would be ‘flying mouths.'"[17] McGraw figures 
prominently in an Orioles-spiked-umpires recollection in Fred Lieb's 1950 
The Baseball Story, which quotes 1890s umpire John Heydler, later a National 
League president, as saying: "We hear much of the glories and durability 
of the old Orioles, but the truth about this team seldom has been told. 
They were mean, vicious, ready at any time to maim a rival player or an 
umpire, if it helped their cause. The things they would say to an umpire 
were unbelievably vile, and they broke the spirits of some fine men. I’ve 
seen umpires bathe their feet by the hour after McGraw and others spiked 
them through their shoes. The club never was a constructive force in the 
game. The worst of it was they got by with much of their browbeating and 
hooliganism. Other clubs patterned after them, and I feel the lot of the 
umpire never was worse than in the years when the Orioles were flying high."[18] 
As far as Heydler's accusation about having been spiked, the 2004 book 
concludes, "contemporaneous reporting does not validate it. Perhaps coincidentally, 
a reference to Heydler in 1898 did include a reference to spiking. Ren 
Mulford Jr. of the Cincinnati Post wrote, ‘Umpire John Heydler's backbone 
is said to be badly in need of stiffening. He is foolish if he permits 
any diamond gentleman to wipe their spiked shoes on him this year.’" The 
2004 book added, "Mulford wrote colorfully, and letting players wipe their 
spiked shoes was figurative for letting them argue at will."[19] Despite 
great success as a player, McGraw is most remembered for his tremendous 
accomplishments as a manager. In his book The Old Ball Game, National Public 
Radio's Frank Deford calls McGraw "the model for the classic American coach—a 
male version of the whore with a heart of gold—a tough, flinty so-and-so 
who was field-smart, a man's man his players came to love despite themselves."[20] 
McGraw took chances on players, signing some who had been discarded by 
other teams, often getting a few more good seasons out of them. Sometimes 
these risks paid off; other times, they did not work out quite so well. 
McGraw took a risk in signing famed athlete Jim Thorpe in 1913. Alas, Thorpe 
was a bust, not because he lacked athletic ability, but because "he couldn't 
hit a ball that curved."[20] McGraw was one of the first to use a relief 
pitcher to save games. He pitched Claude Elliott in relief eight times 
in his ten appearances in 1905. Though saves were not an official statistic 
until 1969, Elliot was retroactively credited with six saves that season, 
a record at that time.[21][22] McGraw believed that he had to eliminate 
any potential distractions that could cause his teams to lose. For example, 
Casey Stengel, who played for the Giants from 1921 to 1923, recalled that 
McGraw would go over the meal tickets at the team hotel, and wasn't shy 
about telling his players that they weren't eating right. For most of his 
tenure, he set a curfew for 11:30 pm. According to Rogers Hornsby, who 
served as a player-coach for the Giants in 1927, either McGraw or one of 
his coaches would knock on the players' hotel room doors at 11:30 sharp—and 
someone was expected to answer. He was known to be extremely competitive; 
he would fine players for fraternizing with members of other teams and 
would not tolerate smiling in the dugout. According to Bill James, with 
McGraw "the rules were well understood."[23] Over 33 years as a manager 
with the Baltimore Orioles of both leagues (1899 NL, 1901–1902 AL) and 
New York Giants (1902–1932), McGraw compiled 2,763 wins and 1,948 losses 
for a .586 winning percentage. His teams won 10 National League pennants, 
three World Series championships and had 11 second-place finishes while 
posting only two losing records. In 1918 he broke Fred Clarke's major league 
record of 1,670 career victories; he was later passed by Mack. McGraw led 
the Giants to first place each year from 1921 to 1924, becoming the only 
National League manager to win four consecutive pennants. At the time of 
his retirement, McGraw had been ejected from games 131 times (at least 
14 of these came as a player). This record would stand until Atlanta Braves 
manager Bobby Cox broke it on August 14, 2007. In 1919, McGraw became a 
part-owner of the Giants when Charles Stoneham bought the club. As part 
of the deal, he became vice president of the Giants, with complete authority 
over the baseball side of the operation. However, he'd had more or less 
a free hand in baseball matters since his arrival. McGraw wrote an autobiography 
of his years in baseball, published in 1923, in which he expressed grudging 
respect for several opposing players.[24] He retired as manager midway 
through the 1932 season, but returned to manage the National League team 
in the inaugural 1933 All-Star Game. Although for most of his career McGraw 
wore the same baseball uniform his players wore, he eventually took a page 
out of Mack's book toward the end of his career and began managing in a 
three piece suit. He continued to do so until his retirement. McGraw married 
Minnie Doyle, the daughter of prominent Baltimore politician Michael Doyle, 
on February 3, 1897. This was at the height of his fame as a player for 
the old Baltimore Orioles of the National League. Two years later, while 
McGraw was on a road trip with his team, she developed appendicitis. An 
emergency appendectomy was performed, and McGraw was called back from Louisville, 
Kentucky. Her condition worsened and, surrounded by McGraw and other members 
of the family, Minnie died on September 1, 1899 at the age of 23.[25] He 
married his second wife, Blanche Sindall, on January 8, 1902. She outlived 
McGraw by nearly 30 years, dying on November 4, 1962. Even after her husband's 
death, Mrs. McGraw was a devoted fan of the team he had managed for so 
long.[26] In 1951, she threw out the first pitch during a World Series 
game in which her beloved Giants played the New York Yankees.[27] The Yankees 
won that day, 6–2, and went on to win the championship—their third in a 
row—in six games. While owners of a bowling, billiards and pool hall in 
Baltimore, McGraw and Wilbert Robinson introduced the sport of duckpin 
bowling within the city of Baltimore in 1899. In 1923, only nine years 
before he retired, McGraw reflected on his life inside the game he loved 
in his memoir My Thirty Years in Baseball.[24] He stepped down as manager 
of the New York Giants in the middle of the 1932 season. He was reactivated 
briefly when he accepted the invitation to manage the National League team 
in the 1933 All-Star Game. Less than two years after retiring, McGraw died 
of uremic poisoning[28] at age 60 and is interred in New Cathedral (Roman 
Catholic) Cemetery in Baltimore, Maryland.[29] Connie Mack would surpass 
McGraw's major league victory total just months later. After his death 
McGraw's wife found, among his personal belongings, a list of all the black 
players he wanted to sign over the years.[30] McGraw was inducted into 
the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1937; his plaque stated that he was considered 
the greatest assessor of baseball talent. In honor of the days he spent 
coaching at St. Bonaventure, St. Bonaventure University named its athletic 
fields after McGraw and his teammate, fellow coach and fellow Hall of Famer 
Hugh Jennings. In 2011, he was inducted into the Irish American Baseball 
Hall of Fame.[31] Although McGraw played before numbers were worn on jerseys, 
the Giants honor him along with their retired numbers at AT&T Park. The 
