John William Chancellor (July 14, 1927 – July 12, 1996) was an American 
journalist who spent most of his career with NBC News. He served as anchor 
of the NBC Nightly News from 1970 to 1982 and continued to do editorials 
and commentaries for NBC Nightly News with Tom Brokaw until 1993. Chancellor 
attended the University of Illinois Navy Pier campus (precursor to UIC) 
which specified completing the last two years of instruction at the University 
of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1949. Originally a copy boy at 14 for 
the Chicago Daily News and hired in 1947 to be a reporter for the Chicago 
Sun-Times, he started his career in local television in Chicago, eventually 
turning to national television news as a correspondent on NBC's evening 
newscast, the Huntley-Brinkley Report. Chancellor covered issues of national 
importance while on The Huntley-Brinkley Report, such as the 1957 integration 
of the Little Rock Central High School. He spent a number of years as a 
foreign correspondent in Europe, with postings in Vienna, London, Moscow, 
and Brussels (NATO Headquarters). In July 1961, Chancellor replaced Dave 
Garroway as host of NBC's Today program, a role he filled for fourteen 
months. Never comfortable with the genial persona required of a Today anchor, 
Chancellor asked for, and was granted, a release from his contract with 
the show in the summer of 1962. He left the program in September, and assumed 
a role as political correspondent for NBC News. He, Frank McGee, Edwin 
Newman, and Sander Vanocur comprised a team that covered the national political 
conventions in the 1960s so well, they were dubbed by industry observers 
as the "Four Horsemen." At the 1964 Republican National Convention, he 
was arrested for refusing to cede his spot on the floor to "Goldwater Girls," 
supporters of the Republican presidential candidate, Barry Goldwater. When 
security came to get him, he was forced to sign off: "I've been promised 
bail, ladies and gentlemen, by my office. This is John Chancellor, somewhere 
in custody." He then became the director of the Voice of America in 1965, 
at the request of President Lyndon Johnson, a spot he held until 1967. 
However, he returned to NBC in 1968 as senior correspondent on the Huntley-Brinkley 
Report and, two years later, became an anchor on the NBC Nightly News, 
a spot he held from 1970 to 1982; this job became the defining point of 
his career. Inaugurating the name and setting the pace of the format of 
Nightly News, from 1970 to 1971, Chancellor, along with David Brinkley 
and McGee, was one of three anchors who rotated in a co-anchor duo format, 
held over from Huntley-Brinkley. NBC arranged the rotation by having McGee 
always broadcast from New York City and Brinkley continue at his customary 
Washington desk. If McGee did not anchor on a broadcast, Chancellor did 
from New York; if Brinkley did not, Chancellor filled in from Washington. 
NBC did not have separate weekend anchors during this period, as it had 
just inaugurated a Sunday evening newscast in August 1970, so this format 
was employed seven days a week. A perceived lack of stability in this arrangement 
prompted NBC to go with Chancellor full-time (McGee later moved to The 
Today Show). From August 9, 1971 to June 4, 1976, Chancellor became the 
sole weeknight anchor (Garrick Utley and others took over weekend duties), 
stationed at the New York NBC headquarters, with Brinkley reduced to contributing 
pre-recorded commentaries, titled David Brinkley's Journal, about two to 
three times per week from Washington. Facing the continued popularity of 
top-rated CBS Evening News with Walter Cronkite, NBC Nightly News returned 
to a co-anchor format from June 7, 1976 until October 9, 1979 with Brinkley 
resuming his old role at the NBC Washington desk; internal disputes within 
NBC management prompted the network to remove Brinkley from Nightly News, 
assigning him to occasional documentaries until his departure for ABC in 
1981. Although Chancellor was a respected, well-spoken journalist and noted 
author in his own right, his broadcast ratings were eclipsed by Walter 
Cronkite in the 1970s, when CBS Evening News had become the most popular 
of the three network weeknight broadcasts. Toward the end of Chancellor's 
tenure, ABC, for the first time ever, became competitive with NBC and CBS 
with its World News Tonight. Chancellor has the distinction of creating 
the idea of using colors to represent the states won by presidential candidates 
in presidential elections. For the 1976 presidential election Chancellor 
suggested to his network's engineers that they create a large electronic 
map of the United States and place it in the network's election-night news 
studio. If Jimmy Carter, the Democratic candidate, won a state it would 
light up in red; if Gerald Ford, the Republican candidate, carried a state 
it would light up in blue.[2] Chancellor anchored the Nightly News through 
April 2, 1982, when he was succeeded by a co-anchor team of Tom Brokaw 
and Roger Mudd. Brokaw became sole anchor a year and a half later. Chancellor 
remained on the program, providing editorial commentaries before retiring 
from NBC on July 9, 1993. In 1992, 4 years prior to his death, Chancellor 
was inducted into the Television Hall of Fame. Chancellor was the narrator 
of Baseball, an award winning documentary by Ken Burns.[3] He also wrote 
a book, Peril and Promise, which was published in 1991. The John Chancellor 
Award for Excellence in Journalism[4] was established in 1995 and administered 
by the Annenberg Public Policy Center until 2004. It is now awarded by 
the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism. Upon retiring, Chancellor 
moved to New Jersey, where he died of stomach cancer in 1996, two days 
shy of his 69th birthday. Chancellor was survived by the former Barbara 
