John Richard "Johnny" Wright (November 28, 1916, New Orleans, Louisiana 
- May 4, 1990, Jackson, Mississippi) was a Negro League pitcher who played 
briefly in the International League of baseball's minor leagues in 1946, 
and was on the roster of the Montreal Royals at the same time as Jackie 
Robinson, making him a plausible candidate to have broken the baseball 
color barrier. Instead, Wright was demoted from Montreal and returned the 
next season to the Negro Leagues. Wright was a New Orleans-born, 5'11", 
175-lbs, right-handed pitcher who started his professional career with 
the New Orleans Zulus in 1936 at age 17. The Zulus were as much sports 
entertainment as a legitimate baseball team, in the mold of the Harlem 
Globetrotters of the era. Playing in Louisville in 1937, Wright was picked 
up by the Newark Eagles of the Negro National League, a big league club. 
He also played for the Atlanta Black Crackers and Pittsburgh Crawfords 
in 1938, Toledo/Indianapolis Crawfords from 1939-40 before joining the 
famed Homestead Grays in 1941. The Grays of the era won a record nine consecutive 
pennants. The club, managed by Candy Jim Taylor, boasted some of the game's 
all-time greats: Cool Papa Bell, Josh Gibson, Buck Leonard, Howard Easterling, 
Sam Bankhead, Jud Wilson. The club won its first Negro World Series in 
1943 behind the pitching of Ray Brown, Roy Partlow and Wright. Wright won 
25 games during the regular season and posted two shutouts during the series. 
Wright was known as a speedy pitcher with good control and a sharp curve. 
Opponents described Wright as throwing harder than Satchel Paige. "Johnny 
was exceptional, as good as anyone we had," said George "Tex" Stephens, 
a longtime local observer of Negro Leagues baseball who played against 
Wright as a youth. "As good as Satchel Paige," Stephens said. "Certainly 
faster (than Paige)."[1] After the 1943 season, Wright joined the U.S. 
Navy during World War II. While in the Navy he pitched for the Great Lakes 
Naval Station team, a black club. By 1945, he was playing for the Brooklyn 
Naval Air Base team where he posted a 15-4 record and was said to have 
the best ERA in the armed forces. Also in early 1945, he pitched well in 
an exhibition game against the Brooklyn Dodgers. At the end of the season 
in 1945, Wright joined the Grays and pitched in three contests; winning 
them all. He also appeared in the Negro World Series. In late October 1945 
Branch Rickey made the announcement of the Jackie Robinson signing. Rickey 
likewise announced the signing of Wright on January 29, 1946, making him 
the second officially recognized African-American to sign a contract with 
organized baseball during the integration era. In reality, Wright had likely 
signed months earlier. Two weeks after the Robinson announcement, the Negro 
Leagues issued a protest to baseball Commissioner Happy Chandler claiming 
that Rickey was tampering with their players. Wright and Robinson were 
the named players. In fact, reports suggest that Wright actually signed 
a contract on November 20, 1945 with the Dodgers. Some speculated that 
Rickey merely wanted a compatriot for Robinson during his first spring 
in organized ball, a speculation that Clyde Sukeforth, Rickey's scout, 
agreed with: "I don't think that the reports indicated that Johnny Wright 
was an outstanding pitcher, but apparently Mr. Rickey thought he would 
be an excellent companion [for Robinson]."[1] Other reports were more complimentary 
of Wright. Influential black sports writer Sam Lacy of the Baltimore Afro-American 
said: "Wright doesn't boast the college background that is Jackie's, but 
he possesses something equally valuable - a level head and the knack of 
seeing things objectively. He is a realist in a role which demands divorce 
from sentimentality."[1][2] Hall of Famer Monte Irvin, who played with 
and against Wright in the Negro Leagues, feels strongly that Wright's curveball 
was of major-league quality. But, in his autobiography, "Nice Guys Finish 
First," Irvin said Robinson had one advantage in spring training: Rachel, 
his wife, who accompanied her spouse to the South in what she knew would 
be a trial by fire. Wright, by contrast, although married with two children, 
was alone in Daytona Beach, where the Dodgers trained.[1] On March 4, 1946, 
in Sanford, Florida, Robinson donned his Montreal Royals uniform for the 
first day of spring training in the Dodgers' organization, joined by Wright.[3] 
That day would not feature an official game. Wright would be on the active 
roster on March 17, 1946, when Robinson started at shortstop for the Royals 
in an exhibition game against their parent club the Dodgers, the first 
step in breaking baseball's color barrier. In the spring, Wright had a 
bad outing as pitcher in an intrasquad game against the Dodgers, giving 
up 8 runs on 10 hits in five innings. In another intrasquad game, he walked 
four in four innings, giving up two runs on three hits. In his last appearance, 
he walked four and hit another in one inning. Both Robinson and Wright 
landed with the AAA Montreal Royals of the International League when the 
season began. In his first appearance, against Syracuse, Wright entered 
in relief. He gave up 4 runs and 5 hits over 3.1 innings. The next time 
on the mound Wright pitched in Baltimore, the southern-most city in the 
International League, and a hostile environment for black players. He entered 
in the sixth inning behind by five. He retired the side and finished the 
game without giving up a hit. In general, however, during his six weeks 
with the club, he was used sporadically and often suffered from control 
problems. On May 14, he was demoted to the Class-C Trois Rivieres (Quebec) 
Royals of the Canadian-American League.[2] The Dodgers immediately replaced 
Wright on the Montreal roster with Roy Partlow, another black pitcher, 
but Partlow's time with Montreal was limited and he was eventually reassigned 
to join Wright at Trois Rivieres. Wright went 12-8 with Trois Rivieres, 
plus winning the deciding game of the championship series. At the end of 
the season, Wright would barnstorm with Robinson's "All-Star" squad. Wright 
appears in only one paragraph of Robinson's autobiography: Shortly after 
Branch Rickey had signed me for Montreal, he had signed John Wright, a 
black pitcher, for the farm club. Johnny was a good pitcher, but I feel 
he didn't have the right kind of temperament to make it with the International 
League in those days. He couldn't withstand the pressure of taking insult 
after insult without being able to retaliate. It affected his pitching 
that he had to keep his temper under control all the time. Later I was 
very sad because he didn't make the Montreal team.[4] Wright rejoined the 
Grays for 1947, making the All-Star team and winning eight games. He retired 
after the 1948 season, returning to New Orleans. There, he worked for National 
Gypsum Company, rarely discussing his baseball days. "I'm sure most of 
his co-workers at the gypsum plant never even knew he was a ballplayer," 
said Walter Wright (no relation), president of the Old-Timers Club who 
played and followed baseball for most of his 84 years.[1] Wilmer Fields, 
a teammate with the Grays, said: "John never talked much about his experience 
with the Dodgers. He was a happy-go-lucky person who was in the wrong place 
at the wrong time."[1] Wright died in 1990.[1] "Johnny Wright, the Forgotten 
