Jon Daniels (born August 24, 1977) is the current President of Baseball 
Operations and General Manager of the Major League Baseball team Texas 
Rangers. Daniels led the Rangers to 2 World Series appearances in 2010 
and 2011. Under Daniels leadership the Rangers joined the Blue Jays (1992–93), 
the Yankees (1998–2001), and the Royals (2014-2015) as the only franchises 
to win back-to-back American League pennants in the last 22 years. When 
hired at age 28, he was the youngest GM in Major League Baseball at the 
time.[1] Daniels was born and raised in Queens, New York.[2] He went to 
Hunter College High School and Cornell University, majored in Applied Economics 
and Management, and joined the Delta Chi Fraternity.[3][4] One of his classmates 
was A. J. Preller.[5] After graduating from Cornell in 1999, Daniels went 
into business development for Allied Domecq.[6] His baseball career began 
in 2001, when he landed an internship with the Colorado Rockies. After 
the baseball season concluded that year, Daniels was informed of an opening 
in the Rangers organization. He applied and was hired by then GM John Hart 
as Assistant, Baseball Operations. He was promoted to Director, Baseball 
Operations in October 2003. In this role, Daniels negotiated multi-year 
contracts for Michael Young, Hank Blalock, and Francisco Cordero. In July 
2004, Grady Fuson left the organization and Daniels was promoted to assistant 
GM. On October 4, 2005, Hart announced he was stepping down as GM and the 
Rangers replaced him with Daniels. At the age of 28 years and 41 days, 
Jon Daniels became the youngest GM in baseball history.[1] Daniels' first 
major deal as general manager was trading Alfonso Soriano to the Washington 
Nationals for Brad Wilkerson, Terrmel Sledge, and Armando Galarraga, a 
move that perplexed many Rangers fans in the DFW area at the time. The 
move had many pros and cons. Soriano hit 46 homers and went on to steal 
41 bases the next season and Wilkerson played most of the season injured 
and ended with a .222 batting average. On the other hand, trading Soriano 
opened up a spot for rookie Ian Kinsler and freed up money that would have 
been spent on Soriano's salary to be more flexible in offering Kevin Millwood 
a large contract. A trade made in December of 2005, sent pitcher Chris 
Young, outfielder Sledge and first baseman Adrian Gonzalez to the San Diego 
Padres for pitchers Adam Eaton and Akinori Otsuka, and catcher Billy Killian. 
While Otsuka filled a valuable role as the Rangers closer, the oft-injured 
Eaton only pitched 65 innings with an ERA of 5.12. Dallas-native Chris 
Young pitched 180 innings for the Padres, racking up 164 K's and posting 
an ERA of 3.46. Adrian Gonzalez (considered a prized prospect) batted .304 
for the Padres while hitting 24 home runs. This is generally considered 
the worst move of Daniels' career. Some of Daniels' other moves have been 
better received. On the eve of the 2006 season, after losing #2 starter 
Eaton to injury, Daniels made a three-way deal, sending Juan Dominguez 
to the Oakland Athletics for John Rheinecker and Freddie Bynum, the latter 
of which he turned and traded to the Chicago Cubs for John Koronka. Koronka 
and Rheinecker helped shore up the Rangers rotation in April and May, while 
Dominguez stayed at Oakland's AAA affiliate for the entire year. Another 
trade Daniels made was sending Laynce Nix, Kevin Mench, and Francisco Cordero 
to the Milwaukee Brewers for minor leaguer Nelson Cruz, and All-star left 
fielder Carlos Lee. The trade was completed just before the trade deadline 
of the 2006 season. Lee was the most sought after trade target during the 
season and provided the Rangers with a strong bat in the middle of the 
lineup. Lee then signed a $100 million free agent contract with the Houston 
Astros, giving the Rangers the #17 and #35 draft picks in 2007 (Blake Beavan 
and Julio Borbon, respectively) as compensation. Cruz emerged as a power-hitting 
All-Star in the 2009 season for the Rangers, and became a mainstay in the 
lineup during the World Series years. In late December 2006, Daniels collaborated 
with White Sox general manager Kenny Williams, engineering a trade that 
caught many within baseball's inner circles off guard. The Rangers acquired 
young starter Brandon McCarthy in exchange for the even younger John Danks. 
The Rangers committed fully to a rebuilding program during 2007, one that 
would directly lead to the team's unparalleled playoff success several 
years later. On July 31, 2007, Daniels made two career-defining trades, 
one with the Atlanta Braves, the other with Boston Red Sox. Daniels first 
agreed with Atlanta Braves General Manager John Schuerholz to trade coveted 
slugger Mark Teixeira and relief pitcher Ron Mahay for catching prospect 
Jarrod Saltalamacchia. The Rangers were also able to obtain four minor 
leaguers in the trade. The first of these prospects, left-hander Matt Harrison, 
emerged as a starter in the 2009 Ranger rotation. The second of these prospects 
acquired from the Braves, Elvis Andrus, now widely hailed as an elite young 
shortstop. Another, Neftalí Feliz, is a well regarded power pitcher who 
joined the Rangers bullpen in 2009. Both Andrus and Feliz were named as 
All-Stars in 2010, a season in which Feliz was voted rookie of the year. 
But there was another substantive trade that day, which occurred just before 
the trade deadline, Daniels agreed to send closer Éric Gagné to the Boston 
Red Sox for young starting pitcher Kason Gabbard, Triple-A prospect David 
Murphy, and rookie-league outfielder Engel Beltre. Not receiving as much 
attention at the time, Daniels also made a third trade prior to the deadline 
sending center fielder Kenny Lofton to the Indians for catching prospect 
Max Ramírez. As a result of the 2007 draft, trades and Latin America free 
agent signings, the Rangers jumped to the #4 system in Baseball America 
2008 organization rankings. This represented the biggest jump since Baseball 
America began ranking MLB farm systems. Before the 2008 Season, Daniels 
traded the 2nd member of what was once dubbed the "DVD trio", sending Edinson 
Vólquez to the Reds for outfielder Josh Hamilton. This trade has received 
positive reviews for both sides, as each player made an All-star appearance 
with their new team and both teams made the playoffs in the 2010 season. 
Hamilton emerged as one of the biggest stars in the game, winning the 2010 
AL MVP, and establishing himself as an elite offensive performer. Baseball 
America recognized the Rangers as having the best farm system following 
the 2008 season. Notable additions to the system in 2008 included draft 
picks Justin Smoak, Robbie Ross, and Joe Wieland. At the 2009 Winter Meetings, 
many media analysts expected the Rangers to be wallflowers, as the team 
was up for sale, leaving Daniels with minimal budget. In order to free 
up salary, Daniels orchestrated a deal with the Baltimore Orioles, dealing 
veteran starting pitcher Kevin Millwood for young reliever Chris Ray and 
left-handed pitcher Ben Snyder. With the salary freed up by the departure 
of Millwood, the Rangers signed free agent Rich Harden. The initial fan 
and media reaction to the deal were mostly positive, even though both Ray 
and Harden were recovering from arm injuries. Daniels also signed free 
agents Vladimir Guerrero and Colby Lewis. On July 1, Daniels acquired catcher 
Bengie Molina from the San Francisco Giants for relief pitcher Chris Ray 
and prospect Michael Main. On July 9, Daniels acquired pitchers Cliff Lee 
and Mark Lowe from the Seattle Mariners for Blake Beavan, Matt Lawson, 
Josh Lueke, and prized prospect Justin Smoak. On July 29, Daniels acquired 
Jorge Cantú from the Florida Marlins for prospects Evan Reed and Omar Poveda. 
On July 30, Daniels acquired Cristian Guzmán from the Washington Nationals 
for prospects Ryan Tatusko and Tanner Roark. On July 31, after high expectations 
and several disappointments, Daniels traded away the Texas Rangers 2010 
opening day starting catcher Jarrod Saltalamacchia to the Boston Red Sox 
for prospects Chris McGuiness, Roman Mendez, a player to be named later, 
and cash considerations equaling near $350,000. On October 22, Daniels 
and the Texas Rangers won the American League pennant when they eliminated 
the New York Yankees from the ALCS in 6 games. On December 8, Daniels was 
named the Baseball America Major League Executive of the Year.[7] On March 
1, 2013 Jon Daniels was promoted by the Texas Rangers to be President of 
Baseball Operations and General Manager.[8] Nolan Ryan resigned as CEO 
of the Rangers and sold his stake in the team in October 2013. Since then, 
Daniels has been the operating head of the franchise. Co-chairmen and principal 
owners Ray Davis and Bob Simpson have largely left the Rangers' day-to-day 
operations in Daniels' hands. On November 20, 2013, Daniels kicked off 
a sub-par Rangers offseason by trading Ian Kinsler to the Detroit Tigers 
for Prince Fielder and cash. The move occurred before the winter meetings 
with many considering the Rangers to be active as they continue to pursue 
their first World Series championship. Ryan stated that he probably should 
have asked former Rangers owner Tom Hicks to help facilitate his relationship 
with Jon Daniels, when Ryan joined the organization in 2008 as club president, 
due to political differences (Daniels being a liberal Democrat and Ryan 
being a staunch Republican) as well as philosophical differences (Daniels 
believing entirely in sabermetrics and Ryan being a proponent of traditional 
scouting).[9] Daniels agreed to a three-year extension with the Rangers 
on November 14, 2014.[10] The 2014 season was disastrous the Rangers hit 
with many injuries to top players finished last in the entire American 
League 67-95 (and 3rd worst in all of MLB). After a disastrous 2014 season 
in which the Rangers finished last in the entire American League (and 3rd 
worst in all of MLB), and despite starting the season with an 8-16 record 
and being under .500 as late as August 3, the Rangers would clinch the 
American League West title on the final day of the season, the team's 6th 
division title and 7th postseason appearance in franchise history. The 
Rangers would start the season as poorly as their 2014 season ended, reaching 
a season low eight games under .500 (8-16) on May 3. The lone bright spot 
was the resurgence of Prince Fielder from season-ending surgery the prior 
year. At the All-Star break the Rangers improved slightly, but were still 
under .500 (42-46). The second half of the season would see the team begin 
a resurgence, led in part by the acquisition of Cole Hamels from Philadelphia, 
the emergence of Shawn Tolleson as the team's closer after the team released 
Neftalí Feliz, the returns of Martin Perez and Derek Holland from the disabled 
list, and vastly improved play by Shin-Soo Choo and Adrián Beltré. However, 
as late as August 3 the Rangers were still below .500. The improved play 
continued, and on September 15 (during a four-game home series against 
their in-state and division rivals the Houston Astros) the Rangers would 
defeat the Astros 6-5, taking the division lead in the process and ultimately 
sweeping the series with the Astros. The Rangers would not relinquish the 
division lead from that point forward, though they would not clinch the 
division until the last day of the season when they defeated the Los Angeles 
Angels 9-2. The Rangers lost to the Toronto Blue Jays in five games in 
the Division Series. The Rangers won the AL West championship for the second 
straight season and will face the Toronto Blue Jays in the Division Series. 
For the first time in franchise history, the Rangers finished with the 
American League's best record; thus giving it (potentially) home field 
advantage throughout the entire American League playoffs (and, with the 
American League's win in the 2016 All-Star Game, possible home field advantage 
throughout the entire World Series as well). 2016 was marked by the trade 
deadline moves of Jon Daniels. Daniels focused on improving the club at 
the trade deadline even though they were in first place. On August 1, 2016, 
Daniels acquired Carlos Beltrán from the Yankees in exchange for prospects 
Dillon Tate, Erik Swanson, and Nick Green. The other deadline deal On August 
1, 2016 Daniels acquired Jonathan Lucroy and Jeremy Jeffress from the Brewers 
in exchange for Lewis Brinson, Luis Ortiz, and a player to be named later. 
After the trade deadline Daniels continued to acquire new players as he 
added Carlos Gómez on August 20, 2016 who had been recently released by 
