Jorge Pasquel (April 23, 1907 - March 1955) was a Mexican businessman and 
sports executive. He was president of the Mexican League and owned interests 
in several teams at a time when the league recruited from Negro league 
baseball and Major League Baseball (MLB), creating a brief threat to the 
MLB talent level. Pasquel died in a plane crash. He was inducted into the 
Mexican Professional Baseball Hall of Fame in 1971. Pasquel was born in 
Veracruz, Mexico. When he was a child, U.S. military forces had invaded 
Veracruz.[1] He and four of his brothers ran a cigar factory and then created 
additional wealth working in various business ventures.[2] By the mid-1940s, 
the estimated wealth of the family was in the tens of millions of dollars. 
Pasquel and his brothers owned the Azules de Veracruz of the Mexican League 
and were minority owners in several other clubs. Pasquel was named Mexican 
League president in 1946. As early as 1943, Pasquel had begun bringing 
players over from Negro league baseball. After recruiting successfully 
from the Negro leagues, Pasquel began to offer high salaries to bring major 
league talent over to the Mexican League. He may have been driven by nationalism 
and by a dislike for American imperialism, possibly spurred by the U.S. 
invasion of his hometown when he was a child. After signing a number of 
major league players with impressive salaries, Pasquel found that he could 
not attract high enough attendance in Mexico to offset the salaries.[1] 
In 1946, American player Mickey Owen returned to the United States after 
playing briefly in the Mexican League. He cited poor playing conditions.[3] 
A long legal battle ensued, after which Owen was determined to owe Pasquel 
$35,000 for breach of contract.[4] The league took large financial losses 
in 1947. Baseball commissioner Happy Chandler had threatened a lifeteam 
major league ban for players who went to the Mexican League, but the players 
were allowed to return to the major leagues.[1] Pasquel and his brother 
Bernardo left the Mexican League in 1952. The brothers had owned the teams 
in Veracruz and Mexico City as well as the league's large stadium, Parque 
Delta. The players from those two teams were divided among the other six 
clubs in the league. The Mexican government purchased Parque Delta from 
Pasquel so that the league could continue using it. Pasquel made headlines 
the next year when he gained distribution rights for the nation's oil from 
his cousin, Mexican president Miguel Alemán Valdés.[5] Pasquel was killed 
in a 1955 plane crash.[5] Shortly after Pasquel's death, the Mexican League 
became a part of American professional baseball. Pasquel was inducted into 
