José Manuel Roberto Guillermo Oquendo Contreras (born July 4, 1963) is 
a former Major League Baseball infielder and a third base coach for the 
St. Louis Cardinals currently on medical leave of absence . He is the longest 
tenured third base coach in Major League Baseball. He also served as manager 
of the team representing Puerto Rico in the 2006 and 2009 World Baseball 
Classic.[1] Oquendo was born in Río Piedras, Puerto Rico, and signed with 
the New York Mets as an amateur free agent in 1979 at only fifteen years 
old. When he made his major league debut with the Mets in 1983, he became 
the first player in franchise history to be younger than the franchise 
(the Mets began play in 1962; Oquendo was born in 1963). After two seasons 
bouncing back and forth between the Mets and their triple A affiliate the 
Tidewater Tides, Oquendo was traded with Mark J. Davis to the St. Louis 
Cardinals for Ángel Salazar and John Young. Oquendo spent all of 1985 with 
the Cardinals' triple A affiliate the Louisville Redbirds. With the Mets, 
Oquendo had only ever played shortstop; with perennial All-star Ozzie Smith 
firmly entrenched there, the Cards experimented with Oquendo at other positions 
when they brought him up for the 1986 season. Along with short, Oquendo 
played second base, third and in the outfield. In 1987, Oquendo played 
every position, except catcher, and was nicknamed "The Secret Weapon" by 
manager Whitey Herzog. His one emergency appearance on the mound came on 
August 7. Already down 12–4 to the Philadelphia Phillies, Oquendo pitched 
the eighth inning and gave up three earned runs.[2] Oquendo reached the 
post season for the only time in his career in 1987. He batted .222, including 
a three run home run in the second inning of the seventh game of the 1987 
National League Championship Series against the San Francisco Giants. In 
1988, Oquendo became one of only a handful of players to have played every 
position on the diamond when he made his debut behind the plate. He also 
took the mound again, this time it was in a nineteen inning marathon against 
the Atlanta Braves on May 14. After pitching three scoreless innings, Oquendo 
was tagged for a two run double by Ken Griffey in the nineteenth, and took 
the loss.[3] With Luis Alicea back in the minors in 1989, Oquendo emerged 
as the Cardinals' regular second baseman. He responded by committing only 
five errors in 851 chances and a .994 fielding percentage. He also enjoyed 
his best season with the bat, batting .291, and was in the top ten in hits, 
triples, walks and on-base percentage. He also played in a league leading 
163 games that season. His best season with the glove was the following 
season, when he set a major league record for the fewest errors (three) 
by a second baseman in a 150+ game season.[4] However, perennial Gold Glover 
and future Hall of Famer Ryne Sandberg won the Gold Glove Award that year. 
In the first game of the 1992 season, Oquendo suffered a hamstring injury 
that sidelined him for most of the season. Oquendo spent three more seasons 
with the Cardinals as a utility infielder. He retired after failing to 
make the Cardinal roster out of spring training in 1996. Oquendo was 0–1 
with a 12.00 earned run average over six innings in three games pitched. 
His career fielding percentage as a second baseman was .992. Oquendo accepted 
a minor league coaching position with the Cardinals in 1997, and became 
manager of the New Jersey Cardinals of the New York–Penn League in 1998. 
He became bench coach for St. Louis in 1999, and a year later, he moved 
to third base coach, where he has remained ever since.[5] Oquendo was thrown 
out of a game against the Philadelphia Phillies on June 13, 2008 for arguing. 
Earlier in the game, already a blowout loss for the Cardinals, Cardinals 
pitcher Russ Springer threw an inside pitch that grazed the hip of Phillies 
first baseman Ryan Howard. Springer was thrown out without warning, which 
caused Cardinals manager Tony La Russa to argue with umpire Larry Vanover. 
La Russa was subsequently thrown out of the game, and bench coach Joe Petini 
assumed the role of manager. Later in the game, Phillies pitcher Rudy Seánez 
threw a pitch that went behind Cardinals batter Brendan Ryan and was not 
ejected or warned. Oquendo began arguing from his position in the coaching 
box behind third and was tossed by Vanover. On April 4, 2009, Oquendo appeared 
as a Cardinals pinch hitter in a preseason exhibition game against the 
Cardinals' triple A affiliate, the Memphis Redbirds. Oquendo fouled off 
several pitches before being walked. He was advanced to 3rd base on a hit 
and walk before an inning ending groundout. Over the past few years Oquendo 
has interviewed for managerial positions with San Diego, Seattle, and the 
New York Mets. Also during the 2011 offseason he was interviewed for the 
managing position with the Cardinals. The spot would later go to Mike Matheny. 
On August 17, 2012, Oquendo was again ejected from a game for arguing balls 
and strikes. After a called strike to Jon Jay from Pittsburgh Pirates starter 
James McDonald, Oquendo came down the third base line arguing with home 
plate umpire Lance Barrett. He was immediately ejected from the game. Manager 
Mike Matheny came out to try to prevent further argument while Oquendo 
kicked dirt across the plate. Oquendo developed "speed-feed" drills for 
the infielders. Besides lobbing the standard ground balls, Oquendo had 
third basemen Matt Carpenter and catching prospect Carson Kelly standing 
foul territory about three paces away, bowling baseballs at a rapid pace 
until they grew tired and increased their endurance in and improved footwork 
and positioning.[6] On March 27, 2016, he was placed on medical leave of 
absence due to his injured right knee. He is rehabbing in Florida for the 
next few months.[7] In 2004, a comical one-hour special aired on ESPN and 
was produced by MLB Productions about José Oquendo. It featured Randy and 
Jason Sklar of Cheap Seats going on a trip all the way to the National 
Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown on a campaign to get José "The Utilityman" 
Oquendo inducted for his versatility to play any position on the baseball 
field. The special included the Sklars receiving Oquendo's blessing to 
lobby for his spot in Cooperstown, collecting signatures for the petition, 
and giving a lackluster presentation to the Hall of Fame's committee. At 
the end of the television special, a plaque bearing his name was placed 
