Joshua "Josh" Gibson (December 21, 1911 – January 20, 1947) was an American 
Negro league baseball catcher. Baseball historians consider Gibson to be 
among the very best power hitters and catchers in the history of any league, 
including Major League Baseball (MLB). In 1972, he was the second player 
after Satchel Paige who had played in the Negro leagues to be inducted 
in the National Baseball Hall of Fame.[1] Gibson played for the Homestead 
Grays from 1930 to 1931, moved to the Pittsburgh Crawfords from 1932 to 
1936, and returned to the Grays from 1937 to 1939 and 1942 to 1946. In 
1937, he played for Ciudad Trujillo in Trujillo's Dominican League and 
from 1940 to 1941, he played in the Mexican League for Rojos del Águila 
de Veracruz. Gibson served as the first manager of the Santurce Crabbers, 
one of the most historic franchises of the Puerto Rico Baseball League. 
Gibson was known as the "black Babe Ruth",[2] in fact, some fans at the 
time who saw both Ruth and Gibson play called Ruth "the white Josh Gibson".[3] 
Gibson never played in the major leagues because of an unwritten "gentleman's 
agreement" policy that prevented non-white players from participating. 
He stood 6-foot-1 (185 cm) and weighed 210 pounds (95 kg) at the peak of 
his career.[4] Gibson was born in Buena Vista, Georgia, c. December 21, 
1911.[5] In 1923, Gibson moved to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania where his father, 
Mark Gibson, found work at the Carnegie-Illinois Steel Company. Entering 
sixth grade in Pittsburgh, Gibson prepared to become an electrician, attending 
Allegheny Pre-Vocational School and Conroy Pre-Vocational School. His first 
experience playing baseball for an organized team came at age 16 when he 
played third base for an amateur team sponsored by Gimbels department store 
where he found work as an elevator operator. Shortly thereafter, he was 
recruited by the Pittsburgh Crawfords, which in 1928 was still a semi-professional 
team. The Crawfords, controlled by Gus Greenlee, was the top black semi-professional 
team in the Pittsburgh area and would advance to fully professional, major 
Negro league status by 1931.[6] In 1928, Gibson met Helen Mason whom he 
married on March 7, 1929. When not playing baseball, Gibson continued to 
work at Gimbels, having given up on his plans to become an electrician 
to pursue a baseball career. In the summer of 1930, the 18-year-old Gibson 
was recruited by Cum Posey, owner of the Homestead Grays, which was the 
preeminent Negro league team in Pittsburgh; Gibson debuted with the Grays 
on July 31, 1930. On August 11, Gibson's wife, Helen, who was pregnant 
with twins, went into premature labor and died while giving birth to a 
twin son, Josh Gibson, Jr., and daughter, Helen, named after her mother. 
The children were raised by Helen's parents.[6] The Negro leagues generally 
found it more profitable to schedule relatively few league games and allow 
the teams to earn extra money through barnstorming against semi-professional 
and other non-league teams.[7] Thus, it is important to distinguish between 
records against all competition and records in league games only. For example, 
against all levels of competition Gibson hit 69 home runs in 1934; the 
same year in league games he hit 11 home runs in 52 games.[4][7] In 1933, 
he hit .467 with 55 home runs in 137 games against all levels of competition. 
His lifetime batting average is said to be higher than .350, with other 
sources putting it as high as .384, the best in Negro league history.[8] 
Gibson's Hall of Fame plaque states he hit "almost 800 home runs in league 
and independent baseball during his 17-year career."[9] (This figure includes 
vs. semi-pro competition and in exhibition games.) His lifetime batting 
average, according to the Hall's official data, was .359.[7] It was reported 
that he won nine home run titles and four batting championships playing 
for the Crawfords and the Grays. It is also believed that Gibson hit a 
home run in a Negro league game at Yankee Stadium that struck two feet 
from the top of the wall circling the center field bleachers, about 580 
feet (180 m) from home plate.[citation needed] Although it has never been 
conclusively proven, Chicago American Giants infielder Jack Marshall said 
Gibson slugged one over the third deck next to the left field bullpen in 
1934 for the only fair ball hit out of Yankee Stadium.[citation needed] 
Washington Senators owner Clark Griffith once said that Gibson hit more 
home runs into Griffith Stadium's distant left field bleachers than the 
entire American League.[10] There is no published season-by-season breakdown 
of Gibson's home run totals in all the games he played in various leagues 
and exhibitions. The true statistical achievements of Negro league players 
may be impossible to know as the Negro leagues did not compile complete 
statistics or game summaries.[7] Based on research of historical accounts 
performed for the Special Committee on the Negro Leagues, Gibson hit 224 
homers in 2,375 at-bats against top black teams, 2 in 56 at-bats against 
white major-league pitchers and 44 in 450 AB in the Mexican League.[11] 
John Holway lists Gibson with the same home run totals and a .351 career 
average, plus 21 for 56 against white major-league pitchers.[11] According 
to Holway, Gibson ranks third all-time in the Negro leagues in average 
among players with 2,000+ AB (trailing Jud Wilson by three points and John 
Beckwith by one).[11] Holway lists him as being second to Mule Suttles 
in homers, though the all-time leader in HR/AB by a considerable margin 
– with a homer every 10.6 AB to one every 13.6 for runner-up Suttles.[11] 
Recent investigations into Negro league statistics, using box scores from 
newspapers from across the United States, have led to the estimate that, 
although as many as two thirds of Negro league team games were played against 
inferior competition (as traveling exhibition games), Gibson still hit 
between 150 and 200 home runs in official Negro league games.[7] Though 
this number appears very conservative next to the statements of "almost 
800" to 1000 home runs, this research also credits Gibson with a rate of 
one home run every 15.9 at bats, which compares favorably with the rates 
of the top nine home run hitters in Major League history. The commonly 
cited home run totals in excess of 800 are not indicative of his career 
total in "official" games because the Negro league season was significantly 
shorter than the Major League season; typically consisting of less than 
60 games per year.[12] The additional home runs cited were most likely 
accomplished in "unofficial" games against local and non-Negro league competition 
of varying strengths, including the oft-cited "barnstorming" competitions. 
Despite the fact that statistical validation continues to prove difficult 
for Negro league players, the lack of verifiable figures has led to various 
amusing "Tall Tales" about immortals such as Gibson.[13] A good example: 
In the last of the ninth at Pittsburgh, down a run, with a runner on base 
and two outs, Gibson hits one high and deep, so far into the twilight sky 
that it disappears from sight, apparently winning the game. The next day, 
the same two teams are playing again, now in Washington. Just as the teams 
have positioned themselves on the field, a ball comes falling out of the 
sky and a Washington outfielder grabs it. The umpire yells to Gibson, "You're 
out! In Pittsburgh, yesterday!" In early 1943, Gibson fell into a coma 
and was diagnosed with a brain tumor. After he regained consciousness, 
he refused the option of surgical removal and lived the next four years 
with recurring headaches. In 1944, Gibson was hospitalized in Washington, 
D.C. at Gallinger Hospital for mental observation.[14] He died of a stroke 
in Pittsburgh in 1947 at age 35 just three months before Jackie Robinson 
became the first black player in modern major league history. Some believe 
the stroke was linked to drug problems that plagued him in his later years.[15] 
He was buried at the Allegheny Cemetery in the Lawrenceville neighborhood 
of Pittsburgh, where he lay in an unmarked grave until a small plaque was 
placed in 1975.[16] Larry Doby, who broke the color barrier in the American 
League a few months after Robinson broke it in the National League, stated 
at the time of Robinson's signing with a minor league team of the Brooklyn 
Dodgers in 1945, "One of the things that was disappointing and disheartening 
to a lot of the black players at the time was that Jack was not the best 
player. The best was Josh Gibson. I think that's one of the reasons why 
Josh died so early – he was heartbroken[17] In 1972, Gibson's accomplishments 
were recognized, along with Buck Leonard's. Gibson and Leonard became the 
second and third players, respectively, behind Satchel Paige, inducted 
into the Baseball Hall of Fame for their outstanding careers in the Negro 
leagues.[18] Gibson's Hall of Fame plaque claims "almost 800" home runs 
for his career. The U.S. Postal Service issued a 33-cent U.S. commemorative 
postage stamp which features a painting of Gibson and includes his name.[19] 
In 2000, he ranked 18th on The Sporting News' list of the 100 Greatest 
Baseball Players, the highest-ranking of five players to have played all 
or most of their careers in the Negro leagues. (The others were Satchel 
Paige, Buck Leonard, Cool Papa Bell and Oscar Charleston.) That same year, 
he was nominated as a finalist for the Major League Baseball All-Century 
Team. In 2009, a statue of Gibson was installed inside the center field 
gate of Nationals Park along with ones of Frank Howard and Walter Johnson. 
Ammon Field at 2217 Bedford Ave., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, was renamed 
Josh Gibson Field in his honor and is the site of a Pennsylvania State 
Historical Marker.[20] His son, Josh Gibson, Jr., played baseball for the 
Homestead Grays.[21] His son also was instrumental in the forming of the 
Josh Gibson Foundation.[22][23][24] According to the Macmillan Baseball 
Encyclopedia, Josh Gibson's Negro official league stats were as follows: 
Total years played – 16. Total games played – 501. Total career at bats 
– 1679. Total career hits – 607. Total career 2B hits – 89. Total career 
3B hits – 35. Total career HR – 146. Total career SB 11. Career Batting 
Average .362 The first official statistics for the Negro leagues were compiled 
as part of a statistical study sponsored by the National Baseball Hall 
of Fame and supervised by Larry Lester and Dick Clark, in which a research 
team collected statistics from thousands of boxscores of league-sanctioned 
games.[7] The first results from this study were the statistics for Negro 
league Hall of Famers elected prior to 2006, which were published in Shades 
of Glory by Lawrence D. Hogan. These statistics include the official Negro 
league statistics for Josh Gibson: Source:[7] Source:[11] Source:[30] , 
