Joshua Morgan Hancock (April 11, 1978 – April 29, 2007) was a Major League 
Baseball pitcher who played for the Boston Red Sox, Philadelphia Phillies, 
Cincinnati Reds and St. Louis Cardinals. Born in Cleveland, Mississippi, 
he lived in St. Louis during the off-season.[1] He was killed in a car 
crash during the 2007 season. After graduating from Vestavia Hills High 
School in Vestavia Hills, Alabama, Hancock was selected in the fourth round 
of the 1996 amateur draft by the Milwaukee Brewers, but did not sign. An 
Alabama fan, he instead attended college at Auburn University in Auburn, 
Alabama because the Tigers offered him a better scholarship. He was taken 
by the Boston Red Sox in the fifth round of the 1998 amateur draft and 
signed with the Red Sox, making his major-league debut on September 10, 
2002. In December 2002 he was traded to the Philadelphia Phillies for Jeremy 
Giambi. On July 30, 2004, he was traded along with Andy Machado to the 
Cincinnati Reds for Todd Jones and Brad Correll. The next day, Hancock 
was the winning pitcher for the Reds in a game against the Houston Astros, 
a suspended game that began the day before while Hancock was still with 
the Phillies. On the first day of Spring training 2006 Hancock was released 
by the Reds for being 17 pounds overweight, violating a clause in his contract. 
He promptly signed with the St. Louis Cardinals and had his best season, 
pitching 77 innings, compiling a 4.09 ERA, and appearing in the 2006 postseason 
with the Cardinals. He performed in a variety of roles for the Cardinals' 
bullpen, from short term relief appearances to less desirable roles when 
the game was out of hand. Hancock was on the Cardinals roster for the 2006 
World Series but did not pitch. St. Louis won the Series in five games 
over Detroit. Before coming to the Cardinals, he had a penchant for giving 
up home runs. He gave up 17 homers over 68 innings pitched in 2005. He 
improved in 2006, giving up only nine over 77 innings. In 2007, Hancock 
had pitched 8 games with an 0-1 record and a 3.55 ERA. On April 29, 2007, 
Hancock was killed in a motor vehicle accident when the 2007 Ford Explorer 
he was driving while intoxicated struck the rear of a flat bed tow truck 
at 12:35 a.m. Central Time. The truck was reportedly in the left lane assisting 
another vehicle that was involved in a prior accident.[2][3][4][5][6] A 
police report revealed that Hancock was intoxicated at the time of his 
fatal accident with a blood-alcohol level of 0.157, nearly double the legal 
limit in Missouri. Police found 10.95 grams of marijuana and a pipe in 
his vehicle, although toxicology reports came back revealing that there 
was no marijuana in his system. Hancock was texting on his cell phone when 
the accident occurred and was not wearing a seatbelt. An accident reconstruction 
team determined that Hancock was driving 68 mph (109 km/h) in a 55 mph 
(89 km/h) zone.[7] The Cardinals' scheduled game with the Chicago Cubs 
later that day was postponed due to his accident. The game was eventually 
made up on September 15, a 3-2 Cubs victory. Hancock's death marked the 
second time in five years the Cardinals had mourned the loss of a teammate, 
the first being the death of pitcher Darryl Kile in 2002 with a coronary 
artery blockage. He was the second active MLB player to be killed in an 
accident in less than a year, the first being the plane crash of Yankees 
pitcher Cory Lidle. Three days earlier, his teammates were concerned when 
they could not reach Hancock after he had overslept and had not shown up 
for the game on time, likening it to the events leading up to the sudden 
death of Kile. Hancock did not answer until the "20th call", having thought 
the start time was later than it actually was. Hancock was expected to 
be fined by the Cardinals after the incident.[8] On May 31, 2007, it was 
reported that Hancock had been involved in another accident involving his 
GMC Denali three nights before his fatal crash involving a rented Ford 
Explorer. Hancock's final appearance for the team was April 28, 2007, giving 
up one run in three innings of relief.[9] The Cardinals wore a special 
patch on their uniform sleeves with Hancock's number (32) for the duration 
of the 2007 season to commemorate his life. [10] Although his number is 
not retired, he is currently honored with his number being displayed above 
his name in the Cardinals bullpen at Busch Stadium, alongside teammate 
Darryl Kile. In the wake of Hancock's accident, several teams have banned 
alcohol from their home clubhouses. The Florida Marlins had already implemented 
this policy several seasons before Hancock's death, saying that they wanted 
to keep their players from driving home intoxicated after home games. They 
have not banned alcohol from visiting clubhouses because their players 
usually ride a team bus after playing away games.[11] In 2006, after Esteban 
Loaiza was arrested for drunk driving, Oakland A's GM Billy Beane banned 
alcohol in both clubhouses, saying it was a liability issue. After Hancock 
died, the Baltimore Orioles implemented a similar policy, at least on a 
temporary basis.[12] Hancock's family filed a lawsuit on May 24, 2007 against 
Mike Shannon's restaurant, the tow truck company, tow truck driver, and 
the driver of the car that the tow truck was stopped to help.[13] On May 
31, 2007, the Missouri Division of Alcohol and Tobacco Control announced 
results of an investigation revealed no wrongdoing on the part of employees 
at Mike Shannon's Steaks and Seafood restaurant in Hancock's death. [14] 
