Negro leagues Ernest Judson Wilson (February 28, 1894 – June 24, 1963), 
nicknamed "Boojum", was an American third baseman, first baseman, and manager 
in Negro league baseball. He played for the Baltimore Black Sox, the Homestead 
Grays, and the Philadelphia Stars between 1922 and 1945. Wilson was known 
a unique physique, a quick temper and outstanding hitting skills. One of 
the Negro leagues' most powerful hitters, his career batting average of 
.351 ranks him among the top five players. He was posthumously elected 
to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 2006, one of 17 black Negro league or pre-Negro 
league players inducted that year. Wilson was born in Remington, Virginia. 
As a teenager, he moved to Foggy Bottom in Washington, D.C.[1] He served 
in World War I. Wilson debuted for the Baltimore Black Sox in 1922. Though 
Wilson was referred to as "Babe Ruth Wilson" by the media, his teammates 
nicknamed him "Boojum" after the noise his line drives made after striking 
the outfield fences. The team went on a twelve-game winning streak after 
Wilson joined the club. He finished his first season with a .390 batting 
average and a team high in home runs. The Black Sox joined the Eastern 
Colored League in 1923.[2] Wilson hit .373 that season, leading the league.[3] 
However, the team finished in last place, prompting the hiring of Pete 
Hill as the team's manager.[2] During the 1920s, Wilson was also enjoying 
remarkable success playing winter baseball in the Cuban League. His career 
batting average there was the highest in league history.[4] Wilson moved 
to the Homestead Grays for 1931 and part of 1932, finishing that season 
with the Pittsburgh Crawfords. He joined the Philadelphia Stars in 1933.[5] 
In the 1934 Negro National League playoffs, Wilson struck an umpire but 
was not removed from the game. The incident raised questions about the 
league's ability to enforce rules against the top players and the most 
influential teams.[6] In 1940, Wilson returned to the Homestead Grays. 
He played with the team through 1945, when he was 49 years old.[5] Struggling 
with his fielding skills, Wilson often blocked or knocked down batted balls 
rather than catching them with his glove. Because of his strong arm, he 
was still able to throw runners out on such plays. He had an unusual physique, 
standing 5'8" and weighing 195 pounds with a large torso, a small waist, 
bowed legs and pigeon toe.[7] Pitcher Satchel Paige claimed that Wilson 
and Chino Smith were the two toughest outs he ever faced (Wilson hit .375 
against Paige). Catcher Josh Gibson said that Wilson was the best hitter 
in baseball.[8] Wilson was known for a bad temper and a willingness to 
get into physical altercations. His friend Jake Stephens said, "The minute 
he saw an umpire, he became a maniac."[9] A well-circulated story involved 
Wilson holding Stephens out of a sixteenth story window by one leg after 
Stephens came in late and woke him. Others, including Judy Johnson and 
Ted Page, described him as different off the field. "He'd do anything in 
the world for you," Johnson said.[1] Late in his career, Wilson developed 
epilepsy. During a Negro World Series game, Wilson began to draw circles 
in the dirt and was said to be unaware of his surroundings. After retiring, 
he worked on a road construction crew in Washington, D.C.[10] He had to 
be institutionalized late in life.[1] Wilson died at age 69 in Washington, 
D.C. and was buried in Arlington National Cemetery. Wilson was elected 
to the Baseball Hall of Fame by the Negro Leagues Committee in 2006.[8] 
Wilson was elected in a class of 17 Negro league and black pre-Negro league 
inductees, the largest such group inducted in Hall of Fame history.[11] 
Hall of Fame officials did not think that Wilson had any living relatives, 
but a great-niece heard about his scheduled induction and was able to attend 
the ceremony on his behalf.[12] In 2010, the Washington Nationals honored 
Wilson and five other Homestead Grays in the Hall of Fame by including 
