The "juiced ball" theory suggested that the baseballs used in Major League 
Baseball (MLB) during the 1990s and early 2000s were altered in order to 
increase scoring. This theory has been brought back again in 2016 with 
a dramatic increase in home runs across baseball. Major League Baseball 
has seen the most home runs hit by the 2016 All Star break since 2000. 
It was said that a "juiced" ball bounces off the bat at a higher speed.[1] 
Johnny Oates observed hits being made off pitches that should not have 
been elevated.[2] In 2000, Jim Sherwood, a professor at UMass Lowell, was 
hired to test the baseballs manufactured in the Rawlings facility in Costa 
Rica. The tests and regulations for MLB baseballs were described in detail. 
He said that he did not expect to find any change from the manufacturing 
process that had been used for the previous 16 years or more.[3] Various 
baseball manufacturers in the United States also agreed that the theory 
is nonsense, as there are many quality checks in place.[4] The stitchers 
interviewed did not even know what a juiced ball was. On the other hand, 
there is an argument that their livelihood depends on baseball sales, which 
may increase if the balls are juiced.[5] Many pitchers[who?] felt that 
the balls became harder and traveled faster. Some pitchers performed their 
own tests. Kenny Rogers found that the ball in the center of each baseball 
was made of rubber, rather than the old cork. Billy Koch found that when 
dropped from the same height, the rubber balls from 2000 bounced 2 to 4 
inches higher than rubber balls from 1999. In 2000, Frank Deford, a writer 
for Sports Illustrated, interviewed Sandy Alderson, an MLB vice president, 
to discuss the possibility of a conspiracy by MLB to doctor the balls. 
Alderson denied this possibility, and Deford also discredited it as a conspiracy 
theory.[6] Some players in the 2002 World Series complained that the balls 
were juiced after an 11-10 game. Alderson denied these allegations.[7] 
The "Juiced Ball Theory" has receded in popularity since the exposure of 
widespread use of steroids and other performance-enhancing drugs by professional 
baseball players during the same period, providing a more likely explanation 
