Manuel Julián (Liranzo) Javier (born August 9, 1936 in San Francisco de 
Macorís, Dominican Republic), better known as Julián Javier [hoo-lee-AN 
hah-vee-ER], is a former Major League Baseball second baseman. Called Hoolie 
by his teammates, he was also nicknamed "The Phantom" by Tim McCarver for 
his ability to avoid baserunners sliding into second base. He is the father 
of former big-leaguer Stan Javier. Julian became a well known baseball 
phenomenoun in his home town of San Francisco de Macoris. As an amateur, 
he was a third baseman as well as a power hitter. It is legend that he 
has hit the longest home runs in the high school stadiums of San Francisco 
de Macoris to this date. He went on to represent the Dominican Republic 
in the 1955 Pan American Games, although he did not see much playing time, 
the team went on to win the first gold medal for the Domincan Republic 
at a Pan-American Games. That team also had another future all-star major 
leaguer Felipe Alou. The right-handed batting Javier signed as an amateur 
free agent with the Pittsburgh Pirates in 1956. Coming up through the minor 
leagues, Javier became known as "the fastest man in baseball."[1] He batted 
.250 with twenty home runs in five years in their farm system, and had 
emerged as one of their top prospects when he was dealt to the St. Louis 
Cardinals on May 27, 1960 with a pitcher to be named later for Vinegar 
Bend Mizell and Dick Gray.[2] The next day, he would make his major league 
debut starting at second base for the Cards against the San Francisco Giants.[3] 
He would solidify the position for the next twelve seasons, and has played 
more games at second base than any player in franchise history. Javier 
led the Cardinals in stolen bases every year from 1960 to 1963. His finest 
season was 1962. Sharing lead-off duties with Curt Flood in manager Johnny 
Keane's batting order, Javier stole a career high 26 bases, and scored 
a career high 97 runs. Javier led an inning off with a hit or walk 61 times 
for a .347 on-base percentage leading off innings. When Pirates second 
baseman Bill Mazeroski was unable to start the 1963 All Star game due to 
injury,[4] Javier was added to the starting line-up. Along with Bill White 
at first base, Dick Groat at shortstop and Ken Boyer at third, they formed 
an all-Cardinal starting infield for the National League All-Star team.[5] 
After never finishing better than third in any of the first three seasons 
of Javier's career, the Cardinals were in a heated battle with the Los 
Angeles Dodgers for first place in the National League for most of the 
1963 season. The Dodgers came to St. Louis a game ahead of the Cards on 
September 16 for a three game set. Javier went two-for-fourteen with two 
errors in this crucial series. The first error came in the ninth inning 
of the first game, allowing the Dodgers to score the final run of their 
3-1 victory.[6] The second error occurred on a Dick Tracewski ground ball 
in the thirteenth inning of the final game,[7] allowing the Dodgers to 
complete the three game sweep on their way to winning the National League 
pennant. Javier drove in a career high 65 runs dropped to the seven spot 
in the batting order in 1964. The 1964 Cardinals came back from eleven 
games out of first place on August 23 to win their first NL pennant since 
1946 on the last day of the regular season by one game over the Cincinnati 
Reds and Philadelphia Phillies. When they faced the New York Yankees in 
the World Series, Javier was limited to one pinch running appearance due 
to a bruised hip.[8] During the off-season, Javier caused some controversy 
in the Dominican League while playing with the Aguilas Cibaenas. After 
being called out on strikes by home plate umpire Emmett Ashford, Javier 
struck Ashford in the face twice. Javier was originally suspended indefinitely 
by the Dominican Professional Baseball League, but it was eventually cut 
to three days and fifty dollars, prompting Ashford to resign from the league.[9] 
After a contract dispute[10] and visa problems[11] caused Javier to miss 
part of spring training 1965, a broken hand caused Javier to miss a month 
and a half of the regular season.[12] In his absence, the Cardinals used 
a revolving door of second basemen that included Jerry Buchek, Phil Gagliano 
and Dal Maxvill. Javier was never able to regain form upon his return in 
August, as he batted just .195 with eight runs batted in over the rest 
of the season. The World Series champions finished a disappointing 80-81 
and in seventh place Red Schoendienst's first season at the helm. Each 
member of St. Louis' aging infield was replaced heading into the 1966 season 
with the exception of Javier.[13] The team showed modest improvement, but 
still managed only a sixth place finish. For his part, Javier batted just 
a .228 with thirty RBIs, both career lows for a full, healthy season. After 
two subpar seasons in a row, Javier headed into Spring training 1967 battling 
Phil Gagliano for the starting second base job.[14] Javier ended up winning 
the job, and carrying the Cards to victories in their first six games, 
batting .435 with two home runs and eight runs scored. His batting average 
hovered around .300 through the middle of July, as he finished the season 
at .281 with 64 RBIs and a career high fourteen home runs. He was one of 
four Cardinals players to finish in the top ten in National League Most 
Valuable Player balloting. The Cardinals won 101 games in 1967 to cruise 
into a rematch of the 1946 World Series with the Boston Red Sox. In the 
second game at Fenway Park, Boston's Jim Lonborg came four outs away from 
recording the second no hitter in World Series history until Javier connected 
for a two-out double in the eighth.[15] In the seventh and deciding game, 
Javier connected for a three run home run off Lonborg to seal St. Louis' 
7-2 win.[16] He also had an RBI in the Cardinals' 6-0 game four victory.[17] 
He earned his second career All-Star nod when Red Schoendienst named him 
as a reserve on the 1968 NL team.[18] The Cardinals won 97 games in 1968 
to repeat as National League champions. They lost a seven game World Series 
to the Detroit Tigers in which Javier batted .333 with three RBIs. He drove 
in the lone Cardinals run of their 13-1 game six loss.[19] Following the 
1970 season, Javier began having back tax issues with the Internal Revenue 
Service that threatened his availability for the 1971 season.[20] Coupled 
with Javier's age (34 at the start of the season), this prompted Cardinals 
GM Bing Devine to trade Richie Allen to the Los Angeles Dodgers for former 
Rookie of the Year Ted Sizemore and minor league catcher Bob Stinson.[21] 
Javier managed to get his tax issues in order and reported to Spring training 
on time. He was the Cardinals' opening day second baseman due in part to 
an injury to Dal Maxvill that limited his availability, and had Sizemore 
opening the season at short.[22] After a slow start, he was back in the 
Dominican for two weeks to be with his ailing older brother, Luis. Following 
Luis' death,[23] Javier returned to the Cardinals to bat .352 with two 
home runs and fifteen RBIs through the end of May. A dismal June (.088 
batting average) prompted Schoendienst to shift Sizemore back to second, 
and return Maxvill to short. Javier ended the season with a .259 batting 
average, three home runs and 28 RBIs in ninety games. Unhappy with a reserve 
role, Javier asked to be traded during Spring training 1972. The Cardinals 
obliged, dealing him to the Cincinnati Reds for pitcher Tony Cloninger.[24] 
With Joe Morgan at second, most of Javier's playing time with the Reds 
was at third base or as a pinch hitter. He batted .209 in 91 at-bats for 
the Reds. The "Big Red Machine" stormed into the post-season by 10.5 games 
over the Dodgers. Javier did not make a plate appearance in the 1972 National 
League Championship Series with the Pittsburgh Pirates, however, he appeared 
in four of the seven games of the 1972 World Series against the Oakland 
A's. He retired at the end of the season.[25] Javier was strictly a good-contact 
singles hitter. He jumped on high fastballs, and hit them up the middle. 
He was also a good hit-and-run man, and one of the best bunters in the 
league. He hit left-handed pitchers extremely well. A smart baserunner, 
he was quick enough out of the box to avoid hitting into double plays, 
and he never hesitated to take the extra base. As a second baseman, Javier 
was a master at handling slow rollers, with good range to both sides, and 
at snagging pop-ups while running with his back to the infield. He turned 
double plays fearlessly. He was married to Inés Negrin, with whom he had 
five sons and daughters: Julieta, Julián José, Stanley, Vienna Alexandra, 
and Lynette. Stan is named after friend and teammate Stan Musial. After 
losing his wife to stomach cancer in 1997, he married Yolanda Then, his 
current wife. His oldest son, Manuel Julián, is an engineer in Santiago, 
Dominican Republic. His other son, Julián J, is an interventional cardiologist 
in Naples, Florida.[26] Javier founded the Khoury League in Dominican Republic, 
later changing its name to the Roberto Clemente League to honor the Pittsburgh 
Pirates legend. He also founded the Summer League, a professional baseball 
league with four teams in the cities of Santiago, Puerto Plata, La Vega 
and San Francisco de Macorís that played from 1975 to 1978. He also founded, 
with the help of his son Stan, the Gigantes del Cibao, one of the expansion 
teams in the Dominican Winter Baseball League (LIDOM). Estadio Julian Javier, 
the stadium in Julián Javier's hometown of San Francisco de Macorís, is 
named after him, and is the home stadium for the Gigantes del Cibao. He 
was chosen the all-time second baseman for the Águilas Cibaeñas, and his 
number (25) retired by them in the Dominican Winter Baseball League. He 
was inducted into the Dominican Republic Hall of Fame in 1978, and is also 
a member of the Triple-A Hall of Fame in Columbus, Ohio for his remarkable 
performance with the Columbus Jets while playing in the Pirates' minor 
league system. He was inducted into the Hispanic Heritage Baseball Museum 
