Julián Tavárez Carmen (born May 22, 1973 in Santiago, Dominican Republic) 
is a former Major League Baseball pitcher. Tavárez began his professional 
career on March 16, 1990, signing a minor league contract with the Cleveland 
Indians organization. For two years, he was a starter for the Dominican 
Summer League Indians. In 1991, he joined the Class A Burlington Indians 
where he led the league in shutouts and hit batsmen. Tavárez progressed 
rapidly the following year, playing in Kinston, Canton-Akron, and finally 
with the Cleveland Indians. He was named the Indians' 1994 Minor League 
Player of the Year (receiving the "Lou Boudreau Award").[1] Tavarez made 
his major league debut on August 6, 1993, and earned his first win on August 
14, against the Texas Rangers. During his time in Canton-Akron, Tavárez 
won Carolina League Player of the Year honors and was named the league's 
top prospect by Baseball America. Tavárez was demoted to Triple-A Charlotte 
in 1994, where he led the International League in wins. He did make one 
spot start for Cleveland that year. Tavárez was sent to the bullpen in 
1995, which was a breakout year for him. He was first in wins, third in 
innings pitched, and fifth in ERA among American League relief pitchers 
and threw 4.1 scoreless innings against the Atlanta Braves in the World 
Series. Tavárez was the Sporting News American League Rookie of the Year, 
but finished sixth in the ballot by the Baseball Writers' Association of 
America. 1996 was Tavárez' final year with Cleveland. He was suspended 
for three days after a brawl in Milwaukee and spent two weeks in Triple-A 
Buffalo before appearing in the ALDS. Tavárez was traded to the San Francisco 
Giants on November 13, 1996, along with infielders Jeff Kent and José Vizcaíno 
and a player to be named (pitcher Joe Roa) in exchange for third baseman 
Matt Williams and a player to be named (outfielder Trenidad Hubbard). In 
his first year with the club, Tavárez led the National League with 89 appearances, 
while also setting a club record in the statistic. He had a stretch of 
24 consecutive scoreless games and appeared in all three games of the NLDS 
against the Florida Marlins. Tavárez recorded his first save on May 14, 
1998, with a 3 inning outing against the Montreal Expos. He also was placed 
on the disabled list for the first time after straining a latissimus dorsi 
muscle and received his second suspension after an argument with umpire 
Sam Holbrook. Tavárez again appeared on the disabled list in 1999 due to 
pneumonia and had two minor league stints. Tavárez was claimed off waivers 
by the Colorado Rockies on November 21, 1999. He recorded one of two career 
major league complete games with a four-hitter against the Chicago Cubs 
and went on to post an NL best nine-game win streak on his way to a career 
high 11 wins. Tavárez signed as a free agent with the Chicago Cubs on November 
16, 2000, and set career highs in innings, strikeouts, and games started 
after returning to a full-time starting role. On April 11, he executed 
a safety squeeze to record his first RBI. He was suspended from April 29 
to May 4 for his part in a bench clearing brawl against the Giants. On 
May 5, Tavárez won a 20–1 decision against the Los Angeles Dodgers. He 
then recorded his first multi-hit game against Pittsburgh on July 24. On 
October 6, against the Pittsburgh Pirates, Tavárez struck out nine hitters 
and took a no-hitter into the eighth inning before it was broken up by 
Mendy López. Tavárez was acquired by the Florida Marlins on March 27, 2002, 
along with minor league pitchers Jose Cueto and Dontrelle Willis and catcher 
Ryan Jorgensen in exchange for pitchers Antonio Alfonseca and Matt Clement. 
On May 16, he chose to pitch with a shoulder injury and allowed a career 
high ten earned runs. It began a stretch of five consecutive losses. He 
allowed 25 runs and a .391 opponents' batting average in the first inning. 
Tavárez was relegated to bullpen duty in 2003 after being signed by the 
Pittsburgh Pirates as a minor league free agent on January 28. During the 
season, he compiled a streak of 14.1 consecutive scoreless innings and 
ended the season with a career-high 11 saves, allowing only 9 of 35 inherited 
runners to score. Tavárez signed on with the St. Louis Cardinals on January 
9, 2004. He earned his first win with St. Louis against the Cincinnati 
Reds, striking out the side in the 10th inning, and went on to surpass 
1000 career innings pitched in August. Tavárez was ejected from a game 
against the Pirates on August 20, 2004, after an accusation of having a 
"foreign substance" on his cap. He served an 8-day suspension for the incident. 
Tavárez posted a 2.61 ERA in nine postseason games, but suffered breaks 
in his left ring finger and fifth metacarpal after punching a bullpen phone 
in the dugout following being removed from Game 4 of the NLCS. He had allowed 
a solo home run to Carlos Beltrán, issued two walks, and hit a batter. 
Tavárez played the rest of the 2004 postseason with a protective wrap in 
his glove, and when the glove was removed his hand was noticeably swollen. 
Tavárez suffered the loss against the Boston Red Sox in Game 1 of the 2004 
World Series, giving up the game-winning home run to Mark Bellhorn in the 
eighth inning. A free agent following the 2005 season, Tavárez agreed to 
a $6.7 million, two-year deal with the Boston Red Sox on January 18, 2006. 
On March 27, 2006, Tavárez was suspended for the first ten games of his 
Red Sox career as a result of a fistfight that broke out between him and 
Tampa Bay Devil Rays outfielder Joey Gathright during a spring training 
game. Although he had a poor year as a relief pitcher, injuries forced 
the Sox to use him as a starter for the last few weeks of the season. In 
6 starts, he went 3–0 with a 4.01 ERA, and recorded his second complete 
game in a 7–1 win against the Toronto Blue Jays. On March 22, 2007, teammate 
Jonathan Papelbon was named the team's closer, and Tavárez took his spot 
in the rotation. Tavárez called the 2007 Red Sox pitching staff the best 
he's ever been associated with.[2] During a game in May 2007, Tavárez wore 
shoes emblazoned with the likeness of his teammate David Ortiz.[3] In spring 
training, it had been assumed that Tavárez was simply holding the fifth 
spot in the rotation for the Red Sox top pitching prospect Jon Lester while 
he recovered from cancer. However, with Lester struggling in Triple-A and 
Tavárez pitching well, he kept his spot in the rotation through the All-Star 
break. After a stretch of poor starts, 0–4 with a 7.79 ERA, he was moved 
to the bullpen on July 22, 2007, and replaced in the rotation by Lester. 
Tavárez earned his first World Series ring when the Red Sox swept the Colorado 
Rockies in the 2007 World Series. On May 11, 2008, Tavárez was designated 
for assignment. He later accepted an assignment to the Triple-A Pawtucket 
Red Sox even though he could have opted for free agency. Later that month, 
he was released.[4] On May 27, 2008, Tavárez signed a contract with the 
Milwaukee Brewers for the remainder of the 2008 season.[5] On June 19, 
Tavárez was designated for assignment,[6] and rejected an outright assignment 
to the minors, opting instead to be released from his contract.[7] Tavárez 
signed a contract with the Atlanta Braves on July 8, 2008, for the remainder 
of the 2008 season. On that day, he made his Braves debut against the Los 
Angeles Dodgers. He pitched a third of an inning and gave up two runs, 
one earned.[8] On March 13, 2009, Tavárez signed a minor league contract 
with the Washington Nationals and was invited to Spring training.[9] When 
asked why he chose to sign with the Nationals, Tavárez acknowledged he 
had no other options: "Why did I sign with the Nationals? When you go to 
a club at 4 in the morning, and you're just waiting, waiting, a 600-pounder 
looks like J-Lo. And to me, this is Jennifer Lopez right here. It's 4 in 
the morning. Too much to drink. So, Nationals: Jennifer Lopez to me." [10] 
In July 2009 he was designated for assignment by the Nationals, and eventually 
released. After playing baseball for 19 years, at the minor and major league 
