Junior varsity (often called "JV") players are the members of a team who 
are not the main players in a competition (such as any football, basketball, 
or baseball game), usually at the high school and college levels in the 
United States . The main players comprise the varsity team. Although the 
intensity of the JV team may vary from place to place, most junior varsity 
teams consist of players who are in their freshman and sophomore years 
in school, though occasionally upperclassmen may play on JV teams. For 
this reason, junior varsity teams are also often called junior/sophomore 
teams. Especially skilled or physically mature freshmen and sophomores 
may compete at the varsity level. Some private school associations may 
permit very skilled seventh- or eighth-graders to compete on varsity teams. 
At larger schools, there may be two junior varsity teams for some sports, 
with a lower-level team typically consisting only of freshmen. Members 
of a junior varsity team are underclassmen determined by the coaching staff 
to have less experience or ability than those on the varsity roster. As 
such, junior varsity teams are used to prepare these athletes to compete 
at the varsity level. In other schools, the line between JV and varsity 
is arbitrary, with all players at a certain grade level (usually seniors 
and, in smaller schools, juniors) at varsity and all others below that 
grade level at JV, with only a few exceptions for highly talented (or well-connected) 
student athletes, or much smaller schools where - due to their low enrollment 
- are limited in the number of upperclassmen athletes. Some teams require 
participation on a junior varsity team before being eligible to try out 
for a varsity team. These players can provide the varsity team with extra 
depth, with their service as back-up players. The NCAA previously prohibited 
true freshmen from playing varsity college football; as a result, numerous 
junior-varsity "freshmen teams" appeared on many major college campuses. 
The NCAA repealed this limitation in the 1970s. Many sports teams have 
assistant coaches responsible for developing the talent of junior varsity 
players. A coach may call on one or more junior varsity players during 
a varsity game, especially when a varsity player is injured, is not performing 
well, or (because of a violation) is disqualified from further competition. 
If a junior varsity player does well, they will see more playing time in 
the future or may even get moved up to the varsity level. A team will have 
many talented players, but the coach is unable to come up with a rotation 
that allows everyone to play. The decision of when to play junior varsity 
players in a one-sided game is often at the coach's discretion. This depends 
on the coach's strategy, the time remaining in the game, the point margin, 
and the game situation. The coach of a losing team—especially if the players 
are not very good or they are inexperienced players—sometimes may continue 
to play the main players against the winning team's junior varsity players 
to give the team experience. When the winning team is ahead by a substantial 
margin late in the game, the coaches of both the winning and losing teams 
may "empty their benches" -- that is, they remove the varsity players and 
play the junior varsity players for the remainder of the game. The junior 
varsity players can impress coaches during this "garbage time" in hopes 
of gaining more playing time in subsequent games, while at the same time 
reducing the risk of serious injury by varsity players by resting them 
in a game whose outcome has been effectively decided. Some games have rules 
which allow unlimited use of junior varsity players, such as basketball. 
Other sports have different ways of determining junior varsity participants. 
For instance, in high school wrestling, there can only be one wrestler 
competing for a team at a particular weight class in a given varsity match. 
The team's representative is often determined by a "challenge match," in 
which the top two wrestlers at that weight compete for the right to participate 
in the varsity match. The loser wrestles that night's junior varsity match. 
A similar format is used for golf, tennis, and badminton, with players 
who lose to varsity opponents participating in the junior varsity part 
of the meet. Junior varsity games are specially-scheduled events in which 
junior varsity players play to gain skills and experience. These games 
may be played immediately before a varsity contest; or if a school has 
a sophomore or freshman team, the junior varsity game will take place on 
another night or, in some cases, an off-peak time slot such as Saturday 
morning. Records and statistics are kept for the junior varsity team, and 
some leagues offer a junior varsity championship. An assistant coach acts 
as the head coach for these games. In some sports, such as tennis and golf, 
a junior varsity meet will take place simultaneously with the varsity event; 
however, the scores are separately tabulated. In track and field, a junior 
varsity "heat" of a particular event may take place either before or after 
the varsity "heat" (again, implementing separate tabulation of meet results). 
An underclassman who plays on a junior varsity team one year is expected 
to gain enough experience to be one of the varsity players the next season. 
A team's head coach will attend a junior varsity games to evaluate skill 
and decide if a player is ready to play in the main part of a varsity game. 
Junior varsity teams may or may not travel with or take the field/court 
with the varsity team, or in particularly well-organized hierarchies (especially 
in sports such as football) may alternate home and away schedules with 
the varsity squad to ensure at least one of the two teams plays at home 
each week. This is often dependent on the size of the varsity team, availability 
of transportation and policies invoked by either the coach, school or league. 
A JV can sometimes completely replace a varsity team in a game with little 
