The Junior League World Series is a baseball tournament for children aged 
13, 14, and 15 years old.[1] The tournament is held annually at Heritage 
Park in Taylor, Michigan. It is patterned after the Little League World 
Series, which was named for the World Series in Major League Baseball. 
The Junior League World Series is one of eleven tournaments sponsored by 
Little League International. Each of them brings baseball or softball teams 
from around the world together in one of four age divisions. The tournament 
structure for each division's World Series is similar to that used for 
the Little League Baseball World Series. The tournament started in 1981, 
and was originally created for 13-year-old players competing in Little 
League's Senior League division (which at the time included 13- to 15-year-olds). 
In 1999, Little league spun a separate Junior League division off from 
the Senior League division, which included 13- and 14-year-old players 
(currently, 15-year-olds are also eligible if their date of birth is after 
May 1 of the current season). Unlike the Little League World Series — which 
has sixteen regions (eight in the U.S. and eight international) — the Junior 
League World Series has only eleven regions.[2] The eleven regional champions 
are divided into two pools (USA and International). The two best teams 
from each pool advance to the semi-finals, to determine the US champion 
and the International champion. The semi-final winners play for the World 
Series Championship. The losing teams face off in classification games. 
Originally only US teams played in the tournament. But as time progressed, 
international teams began to participate. Puerto Rico was the first international 
entry in 1982. Mexico followed in 1986, Canada in 1988, the first European 
team in 1990, youth baseball powerhouse Taiwan in 2010, and fast growing 
Australia in 2016. Prior to 2001 Mexico and Puerto Rico received automatic 
berths into the tournament. But as competition increased, a Latin America 
regional tournament was formed. Mexico now receives an automatic berth 
to the tournament in even numbered years, and Puerto Rico in odd numbered 
years, (each team can still represent Latin America, when they do not have 
an automatic bid).[3] The five United States regions are: The six International 
