Junichi Tazawa (田澤 純一, Tazawa Jun'ichi?, born June 6, 1986) is a Japanese 
professional baseball pitcher who is a free agent. He has played in Major 
League Baseball (MLB) with the Boston Red Sox. After he finished his high 
school career in Yokohama, Tazawa was not drafted by any of Nippon Professional 
Baseball's 12 teams, and joined the company team of Nippon Oil in the corporate 
league, unaffiliated with the NPB.[1] In 2008, Tazawa posted a 10–1 record 
for Nippon Oil, with a 1.02 earned run average and 95 strikeouts in 88 
1⁄3 innings.[1] In the national corporate league championships, he posted 
two straight shutouts, the second one a complete game on four hits, 10 
strikeouts and zero walks in a 4–0 quarterfinal win over Hitachi, Ltd.[2] 
Tazawa appeared less than 24 hours later in a relief appearance in the 
semifinal against Central Japan Railway. He pitched 2 and 2/3 innings, 
and allowed three hits, struck out one, and gave up the go-ahead run in 
a 3–2 loss.[3] Tazawa was the MVP of the championships, with a 4–0 record 
and 36 strikeouts.[4] In September 2008, Tazawa announced his intention 
to skip the NPB draft in order to pursue a career with a Major League team.[4] 
During the 2008 season, his manager Hideaki Okubo encouraged him to attempt 
a career in Major League Baseball without first playing with a Nippon Professional 
Baseball team. Had Tazawa joined a Japanese professional team, he would 
have had to either wait nine years to become a free agent, or to hope that 
his team would auction the right to negotiate with him through the posting 
system.[1] To avoid conflict between Japanese and U.S. teams, Tazawa asked 
NPB teams not to select him in the October 30 draft, and the 12 teams complied 
with the request. However, the teams passed a rule requiring any amateur 
player who signs overseas to sit out two to three years before he can join 
a Japanese team; high school players would have to sit two years, while 
college and corporate players three years. While Tazawa attracted the attention 
of American scouts, NPB announced that the major leagues of two nations 
had a gentlemen's agreement against signing Japanese amateurs, and general 
manager Brian Cashman, whose New York Yankees had a partnership agreement 
with Yomiuri Giants, said his team considered Tazawa hands off.[1] However, 
Rob Manfred, MLB’s executive vice president for labor and human resources 
denied that any gentleman's agreement was in place regarding the signing 
of Japanese amateur players. On December 4, 2008, Tazawa signed with the 
Boston Red Sox, reportedly for $3 million over three years.[5] After his 
debut on August 7, 2009, he became the third Japanese player, after Mac 
Suzuki and Kazuhito Tadano, to play in Major League Baseball without first 
playing professionally in Japan.[6] On March 22, 2009, Red Sox optioned 
Tazawa to its AA affiliate, Portland Sea Dogs. After achieving a record 
of 9–5 in 18 starts with a 2.57 ERA with Portland, Tazawa was promoted 
to the AAA Pawtucket Red Sox on July 27, 2009. While in Portland, Tazawa 
was named to the 2009 Eastern League All Star team, was tied in second 
for total amount of wins, and was tied for third in total strikeouts with 
88.[7] On August 7, 2009, Tazawa was activated from Pawtucket after the 
Red Sox designated John Smoltz for assignment.[8] He made his debut that 
night against the New York Yankees in Yankee Stadium in the 14th inning. 
Tazawa was the last pitcher left in the bullpen for the Red Sox. The first 
batter he faced was countryman Hideki Matsui, who lined out. In the bottom 
of the 15th, Tazawa surrendered a two-run walk off home run to Alex Rodriguez. 
Tazawa's first major league start was on August 11, 2009, against the Detroit 
Tigers.[9] In the first inning of the start Tazawa hit Tigers first baseman 
Miguel Cabrera in the hand while elevating on a fastball, to which Tigers 
starter Rick Porcello retaliated in trying to throw at Victor Martinez. 
In the next inning Cabrera was forced to leave the game due to his hand 
continuing to ail him. The first pitch thrown by Porcello in the bottom 
of the second inning hit Kevin Youkilis causing him to charge the mound, 
clearing both the benches and leading to the ejection of Youkilis and Porcello. 
Tazawa would go on to pitch five innings, winning the game while giving 
up one earned run and striking out six. With his start, Tazawa became the 
second youngest Japanese pitcher to start in a major league game. Tazawa's 
second start came against the Texas Rangers. He pitched five innings, giving 
up four runs on 10 hits and three walks and taking the loss. In his third 
start, against the New York Yankees, Tazawa pitched six scoreless innings, 
allowing eight hits, two walks and striking out two in the win. In April 
2010, Tazawa underwent Tommy John surgery on his right elbow and was knocked 
out for the entire 2010 season.[10] He began the 2011 season on the 60-day 
disabled list but eventually returned to pitch in three games for the Red 
Sox in 2011. Tazawa started 2012 in Triple-A Pawtucket before being called 
up to Boston on April 18 to replace the struggling Mark Melancon. Tazawa 
was optioned back to Triple-A on May 1. Tazawa was one of the rare bright 
spots in a dismal 2012 season, posting a 1.43 ERA in 44 innings. On April 
26, 2012 against the Chicago White Sox, Tazawa tossed three scoreless innings 
for his first career save. In May 2013, Tazawa was named interim closer 
after injuries to Joel Hanrahan and Andrew Bailey. By the end of July he 
had settled into the primary right-handed setup role ahead of new closer 
Koji Uehara. He continued in that role through Boston's run to the World 
Series championship, including pitching important innings in the ALCS and 
World Series. In 13 postseason appearances, Tazawa allowed only one run. 
He earned the win in the decisive Game 6 of the ALCS. On May 1, 2015, New 
York Yankees Slugger Alex Rodriguez hit a 3–0 93 mph fastball off Tazawa 
into the seats of Fenway in the eighth inning for his 660th career home 
run to tie Willie Mays for fourth place on the all time home runs list. 
Tazawa has three main pitches that include a 92-95 mph fastball (tops out 
at 97 mph), a curveball (73–77 mph), and a forkball/splitter (86–88 mph).[11] 
