Intermediate, Junior, and Senior League Baseball are youth baseball divisions 
of Little League Baseball that are considered more advanced and difficult 
than younger Little League divisions due to more advanced rules, including 
the ability to lead-off and steal as the pitcher breaks, along with longer 
base paths and greater pitching distance. Junior League also includes the 
use of bats with 2 5⁄8-inch (6.7 cm) barrels rather than the transitional 
2 1⁄4-inch (5.7 cm) barrels of Little League. Junior League also allows 
the use of metal spikes in cleats in addition to the molded or plastic 
spikes used in Little League. The Big League level was discontinued in 
the baseball and softball divisions — after the 2016 Big League World Series. 
Junior League Baseball is for children aged 12 to 14 years old.[1] Senior 
League Baseball is for children aged 13 to 16 years old.[2] Big League 
Baseball was for children aged 17 to 18 years old.[3] It was discontinued 
after the 2016 Big League World Series. The tournament is held in Livermore, 
California. The tournament is held in Taylor, Michigan's Heritage Park. 
The tournament has been held in Bangor, Maine since 2002. The Big League 
World Series was held from 1968 to 2016. The tournament's final host was 
Easley, South Carolina, from 2000 to the last-ever tournament in 2016. 
The tournament had previously been in Charlotte, North Carolina from 1968 
to 1970 and in Fort Lauderdale, Florida from 1970 to 1998. Was also held 
in Arizona. For the Little League baseball division, there are sixteen 
regions, whose champions are divided into two brackets (U.S. and International). 
The eight U.S. regions are: New England, Great Lakes, Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, 
Southeast, Southwest, Northwest (including Alaska), and West (including 
Hawaii). Since 2013, the eight international regions are: Asia-Pacific 
and Middle East (all countries in both regions, except for Australia, Israel, 
Japan, and Turkey), Australia, Canada, Caribbean, Europe and Africa (also 
includes Israel and Turkey), Japan, Latin America (Central America and 
South America), and Mexico.[4] For the Intermediate, Junior, and Senior 
League baseball divisions, there are only five U.S. regions: The international 
regions differ in these three divisions. Unlike the Little League World 
Series — which has sixteen regions (eight in the U.S. bracket and eight 
in the International bracket) — the Junior League World Series has only 
eleven regions, whose champions are divided into the United States Pool 
and the International Pool.[5] The Junior League has six international 
regions: Unlike the Little League World Series — which has sixteen regions, 
divided into U.S. and International brackets — the Senior League World 
Series (1) has only nine regions, (2) has a host team (Maine District 3), 
and (3) the regional champions (plus the host team) are divided into two 
mixed pools that combine U.S. and international regions (Pool A and Pool 
B).[6] Because of the mixed pools, the Senior League division does not 
have an international champion and a United States champion-- unlike the 
other four baseball divisions of Little League Baseball. The Senior League 
has only four international regions: The Big League World Series was held 
from 1968 to 2016. During its final years, it differed from the Little 
League World Series in that it (1) had only ten regions, divided into Pool 
A (U.S.) and Pool B (International), and (2) had a host team (South Carolina 
District 1), which played in the U.S. pool.[7] The Big League had five 
international regions: The distance between the bases is 90 feet, the same 
as for regulation Major League Baseball fields. The distance between the 
pitcher's mound to home plate is 60.6 feet, also identical to that of MLB. 
The minimum outfield distance in the upper divisions is 300 feet, while 
the maximum for Big League is 425 feet. A game consists of seven innings 
(same as in high school baseball) and is official if five innings have 
