Justin Kutcher is a sportscaster with Fox Sports and formerly with ESPN. 
Kutcher joined Fox Sports in 2012 as a play-by-play broadcaster for Fox 
College Football and Fox College Hoops. He made his Major League Baseball 
broadcasting debut in April 2013.[1] Kutcher announced college sports for 
the Big Ten Network, CBS College Sports and NCAA Productions. He called 
Minor League Baseball at the Double A to Triple A levels, such as for the 
Portland Beavers. He also anchored MLB.com's Daily Rewind and Post Season 
Live during the 2008 MLB playoffs. Other assignements include calling Portland 
Timbers soccer, the 2006 World Softball Championships in Beijing and Boston 
Terriers women's basketball. Before moving into the booth, he served as 
a statistician for MLB on Fox, working in the playoffs and the World Series 
as an assistant to Joe Buck and Tim McCarver. Before joining Fox, Kutcher 
worked for ESPN, where he called football, basketball, baseball, softball, 
ice hockey and volleyball games. He was especially involved in calling 
college sports such as college football, college basketball, college baseball 
and college volleyball. He called NBA regular season games for ESPN as 
well. He even called high school football and basketball for the network. 
He also announced the NCAA Men's Volleyball Tournament. Kutcher calls college 
football for Fox and FX. His partner was Eric Crouch in 2012; it is now 
either James Bates, Joel Klatt, or Petros Papadakis. Kutcher also calls 
select MLB games on Fox and Fox Sports 1.[2] He is also a play-by-play 
announcer for college basketball on Fox Sports 1.[3] In 2013, he filled 
in for Gus Johnson for a Week 15 NFL matchup between the Arizona Cardinals 
and the Tennessee Titans. He became a regular fill-in for the NFL on Fox 
beginning in 2014. He also was a commentator for FOX's coverage of the 
2015 FIFA Women's World Cup and the 2016 Copa América Centenario. While 
attending Boston University, he was sports director at student station 
WTBU. He graduated with a degree from the College of Communication. He 
is also a graduate of the Hopkins School. He grew up in Fairfield, Connecticut 
