Justine Siegal is an American baseball coach and sports educator who is 
particularly interested and involved in sports gender equity, and noted 
for her success in coaching baseball in contexts that were previously male-only. 
She is the first female coach in MLB history.[1] Siegal was first introduced 
to baseball at a very young age. Her grandfather frequently took her to 
Cleveland Indian baseball games. At a young age she was introduced to the 
idea that only a certain gender can play the sport. Even at this age she 
knew that this idea was wrong and continued playing baseball despite what 
people said. She did not listen to people who discouraged her from playing 
baseball because it was a "man's sport". At age 16 she made the goal to 
coach at a collegiate level. She was discouraged from playing and coaching 
at this age as well. Although those around her discouraged her from pursuing 
this goal, she continued in this career path with her passion for baseball.[2] 
Siegal holds a B.A. from St. Olaf College with a concentration in "Leadership: 
Religion, Military, and Baseball", an M.A. in Sport Studies from Kent State 
University, and a Ph.D. in Sport and Exercise Psychology from Springfield 
College (MA); her academic focus is in performance enhancement, sport management, 
coaching, gender equity, and youth sports. Siegel knew the difficulties 
of trying to be a baseball coach, so she went on to pursue her Ph.D to 
equal the level of opportunities.[3] Siege's persistence is what helped 
her get the coaching position with the Oakland A's.[4] Siegal through her 
academic backgrounds as well as experience on the field has given her an 
edge above the rest allowing her to become a coach having a method of coaching 
players on the field and off in a classroom setting. Currently, Siegal 
is the Director of Sports Partnerships at the Center for the Study of Sport 
in Society at Northeastern University.[5] As the director she is continues 
to work towards expanding the academic programs and relationships with 
Major League Baseball and other sports organizations. In addition, Siegal 
is the founder and executive director of Baseball for All, an organization 
that provides meaningful opportunities and instruction in baseball, especially 
for girls.[6] In 2002, Siegal formed the Sparks, the first all-girl team 
to compete in a national "boys" baseball tournament. A documentary film, 
"Girls of Summer" (not to be confused with the 1988 film of the same title), 
was made about the team. Siegal is also the founder and director of the 
nonprofit organization Baseball for All, which works toward gender equity 
in youth baseball[7] by strongly encouraging and providing opportunities 
for girls to participate in baseball.[8] This programs works on giving 
girls the sources needed to participate in the sport whether it means becoming 
a player, coach, umpire, or filling other baseball roles in hopes that 
other communities will extend their baseball programs to girls. Along with 
coaching youth baseball, Seigal has worked with Springfield College as 
an assistant baseball coach, being the only woman coach in the collegiate 
baseball ranks[9] in the years of 2008-2010. In addition Siegal has been 
a coach and Technical Commissioner for the International Baseball Federation 
where she has coached for the World Children’s Team USA. This team went 
on to win gold at the Women’s Baseball World Cup.[10] Growing up being 
told that baseball is a sport for man and softball is the sport for women 
has influenced her to start her own nonprofit organization called baseball 
for all. Baseball for all encourages and provides equal opportunities for 
girls with the same passion for baseball to connect and foster that passion 
playing baseball. Through Baseball for All Justine Siegal is trying to 
get rid of the status quo of females being discouraged from playing baseball. 
Not only does Baseball for All encourage young girls to pursue their love 
for baseball, but it also educates the public on the importance of equal 
opportunities for men and women.[11] Siegal in 2009, became the first female 
coach of a professional men's baseball team when she worked for the Brockton 
Rox as the first-base coach. In 2011, at the age of 36, was the first woman 
to throw batting practice to a MLB team, the Cleveland Indians during spring 
training.[12] She has also thrown batting practice to the Oakland Athletics, 
Tampa Bay Rays, St. Louis Cardinals, Houston Astros, and New York Mets.[13][14][15][16] 
Siegal has proven to be more than qualified offering various skills and 
talents to players, which has led to her next big career move being hired 
by the Oakland Athletics in 2015 for a two-week coaching stint in their 
instructional league, becoming the first female coach of a major-league 
baseball team.[17] David Frost, the A’s assistant general manager,stated 
that they we’re thrilled that Justine will be joining us for instructional 
league….she brings with her a wealth of knowledge and expertise from years 
of playing, coaching, and teaching the game and all of our young players 
will benefit greatly from her time in camp.[18] In response, Siegal has 
stated that she will do whatever they need[19] in order to provide a successful 
season for the A's. In September 2016 she was the mental skills coach for 
