Kanagawa Prefecture (神奈川県, Kanagawa-ken?) is a prefecture located in southern 
Kantō region of Japan.[1] The capital of the prefecture is Yokohama.[2] 
Kanagawa is part of the Greater Tokyo Area. Kanagawa Prefecture is home 
to Kamakura and Hakone, two highly popular side trip destinations from 
Tokyo. The prefecture has some archaeological sites going back to the Jomon 
period (around 400 BCE). About 3,000 years ago, Mount Hakone produced a 
volcanic explosion which resulted in Lake Ashi on the western area of the 
prefecture. It is believed[by whom?] that the Yamato Dynasty ruled this 
area from the 5th century onwards. In the ancient era, its plains were 
very sparsely inhabited. In medieval Japan, Kanagawa was part of the provinces 
of Sagami and Musashi.[3] Kamakura in central Sagami was the capital of 
Japan during the Kamakura period (1185–1333). During the Edo period, the 
western part of Sagami Province was governed by the daimyo of Odawara Castle, 
while the eastern part was directly governed by the Tokugawa Shogunate 
in Edo (Tokyo). Commodore Matthew Perry landed in Kanagawa in 1853 and 
1854 and signed the Convention of Kanagawa to force open Japanese ports 
to the United States. Yokohama, the largest deep-water port in Tokyo Bay, 
was opened to foreign traders in 1859 after several more years of foreign 
pressure, and eventually developed into the largest trading port in Japan. 
Nearby Yokosuka, closer to the mouth of Tokyo Bay, developed as a naval 
port and now serves as headquarters for the U.S. 7th Fleet and the fleet 
operations of the Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force. After the Meiji Period, 
many foreigners lived in Yokohama City, and visited Hakone. The Meiji Government 
developed the first railways in Japan, from Shinbashi (in Tokyo) to Yokohama 
in 1872. The epicenter of the Great Kantō earthquake in 1923 was deep beneath 
Izu Ōshima Island in Sagami Bay. It devastated Tokyo, the port city of 
Yokohama, surrounding prefectures of Chiba, Kanagawa, and Shizuoka, and 
caused widespread damage throughout the Kantō region.[4] The sea receded 
as much as 400 metres from the shore at Manazuru Point, and then rushed 
back towards the shore in a great wall of water which swamped Mitsuishi-shima.[5] 
At Kamakura, the total death toll from earthquake, tsunami, and fire exceeded 
2,000 victims.[6] At Odawara, ninety percent of the buildings collapsed 
immediately, and subsequent fires burned the rubble along with anything 
else left standing.[7] Yokohama, Kawasaki and other major cities were heavily 
damaged by the U.S. bombing in 1945. Casualties amounted to more than several 
thousand. After the war, General Douglas MacArthur, the chief commander 
of Supreme Commander of the Allied Powers for the Occupation of Japan, 
landed in Kanagawa, before moving to other areas. U.S. military bases still 
remain in Kanagawa, including Camp Zama (Army), Yokosuka Naval Base, Naval 
Air Station Atsugi (Navy). In 1945, Kanagawa was the 15th most populous 
prefecture in Japan, with the population of about 1.9 million. In the years 
after the war, the prefecture underwent rapid urbanization as a part of 
the Greater Tokyo Area. The population as of September 1, 2014 is estimated 
to be 9.1 million.[8] Kanagawa became the second most populous prefecture 
in 2006. Kanagawa is a relatively small prefecture located at the southeastern 
corner of the Kantō Plain[9] wedged between Tokyo on the north, the foothills 
of Mount Fuji on the northwest, and the Sagami Bay[9] and Tokyo Bay on 
the south and east. The eastern side of the prefecture is relatively flat 
and heavily urbanized, including the large port cities of Yokohama and 
Kawasaki. The southeastern area nearby the Miura Peninsula is less urbanized, 
with the ancient city of Kamakura drawing tourists to temples and shrines. 
The western part, bordered by Yamanashi Prefecture and Shizuoka Prefecture 
on the west,[10] is more mountainous and includes resort areas like Odawara 
and Hakone. The area, stretching 80 kilometres (50 mi) from west to east 
and 60 kilometres (37 mi) from north to south, contains 2,400 square kilometres 
(930 sq mi) of land, accounting for 0.64% of the total land area of Japan.[10] 
As of 1 April 2012[update], 23% of the total land area of the prefecture 
was designated as Natural Parks, namely the Fuji-Hakone-Izu National Park; 
Tanzawa-Ōyama Quasi-National Park; and Jinba Sagamiko, Manazuru Hantō, 
Okuyugawara, and Tanzawa-Ōyama Prefectural Natural Parks.[11] Topographically, 
the prefecture consists of three distinct areas. The mountainous western 
region features the Tanzawa Mountain Range and Hakone Volcano. The hilly 
eastern region is characterized by the Tama Hills and Miura Peninsula. 
The central region, which surrounds the Tama Hills and Miura Peninsula, 
consists of flat stream terraces and low lands around major rivers including 
the Sagami River, Sakai River, Tsurumi River, and Tama River.[10] The Tama 
River forms much of the boundary between Kanagawa and Tokyo. The Sagami 
River flows through the middle of the prefecture. In the western region, 
the Sakawa (river) runs through a small lowland, the Sakawa Lowland, between 
Hakone Volcano to the west and the Ōiso Hills to the east and flows into 
Sagami Bay.[9] The Tanzawa Mountain Range, part of the Kantō Mountain Range, 
contains Mount Hiru (1,673 m or 5,489 ft), the highest peak in the prefecture. 
Other mountains measure similar mid-range heights: Mount Hinokiboramaru 
(1,601 m or 5,253 ft), Mount Tanzawa, (1,567 m or 5,141 ft), Mount Ōmuro 
(1,588 m or 5,210 ft), Mount Himetsugi (1,433 m or 4,701 ft), and Mount 
Usu (1,460 m or 4,790 ft). The mountain range is lower in height southward 
leading to Hadano Basin to the Ōiso Hills. At the eastern foothills of 
the mountain range lies the Isehara Plateau and across the Sagami River 
the Sagami Plateau.[9] Nineteen cities are located in Kanagawa Prefecture: 
These are the towns and villages in each district: Kanagawa's transport 
network is heavily intertwined with that of Tokyo (see: Transportation 
in Greater Tokyo). Shin-Yokohama and Odawara stations on the Tōkaidō Shinkansen 
are located in the prefecture, providing high-speed rail service to Tokyo, 
Nagoya, Osaka, and other major cities. The Kanagawa Prefectural Board of 
Education manages and oversees individual municipal school districts. The 
board of education also directly operates most of the public high schools 
in the prefecture. Kanagawa Prefecture has sister relationships with these 
