The Kannapolis Intimidators are a minor league baseball team in Kannapolis, 
North Carolina. The team is a Class Low-A affiliate of the Chicago White 
Sox and has played in the South Atlantic League under various names and 
team affiliations since its inception in 1995. The Intimidators franchise 
moved to Kannapolis in 1995 from Spartanburg, South Carolina, where they 
had been a Class A affiliate of the Philadelphia Phillies. Debate raged 
in the Kannapolis area over what to name the team, with team officials 
finally decided to call the team the Piedmont Phillies for the 1995 season. 
A name-the-team contest in the fall of 1995 drew thousands of entries, 
and team officials settled on the boll weevil as the team's new mascot, 
indicative of Kannapolis' history as a textile mill town (Kannapolis natives 
are even called "lintheads"). The Piedmont Boll Weevils would keep that 
mascot until after the 2000 season, when NASCAR racing legend Dale Earnhardt 
purchased a share in the team's ownership. It was then that the name was 
changed to the Kannapolis Intimidators, in honor of Earnhardt's legendary 
nickname.[1] It was also during that offseason that the team's parent club 
changed from the Phillies to the Chicago White Sox, making the Intimidators 
the third White Sox farm team to be located in the Carolinas, following 
the Charlotte Knights and the Winston-Salem Warthogs, now called the Winston-Salem 
Dash. Earnhardt, who drove the #3 car in NASCAR, was killed in an accident 
at the Daytona 500 in February 2001.[2] Following Earnhardt's death, the 
Intimidators avoided assigning the number 3 for team members. Team manager 
Razor Shines, originally slated to wear #3, subsequently changed his uniform 
number to #43. The team officially retired number 3 on May 15, 2002, in 
memory of their former co-owner, similar to the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim 
retiring the number 26 (the 26th man) in honor of former owner Gene Autry. 
The team's logo was designed by Sam Bass, who has designed paint schemes 
and uniforms on many NASCAR, IndyCar, and NHRA race cars.[1] The team plays 
in Intimidators Stadium (formerly Fieldcrest Cannon and later CMC-NorthEast 
Stadium) in Kannapolis. "The Cannon" was still under construction when 
the Piedmont Phillies began play in 1995. Upon completion in the winter 
of 1995, the stadium seated 4,700 fans. The stadium officially changed 
names on April 3, 2012 under a new naming rights agreement for the 2012 
season.[3] For 2016, the naming rights deal quietly ended, with the name 
reverting back to Intimidators Stadium.[4] Current or former Major League 
Baseball players to pass through Kannapolis include Jimmy Rollins and Dave 
Coggin of the Philadelphia Phillies, as well as Jack Egbert, Gordon Beckham, 
Chris Getz, Brent Morel and Clayton Richard of the Chicago White Sox. Marlon 
Byrd, Jorge Padilla, Ryan Madson, and Brett Myers played for the 2000 Piedmont 
Boll Weevils.[5] Also, NFL running back Ricky Williams played for the Boll 
Weevils during the late 1996 and 1997 seasons while he was also playing 
college football for the University of Texas.[6] Smith Family Baseball, 
owned by Illinois businessman Dale Smith and his son Brad (the team's President) 
bought the team from Dale Earnhardt, Inc. and motorsports magnate Bruton 
Smith in December 2004. Larry and Sue Hedrick, the owners who bought the 
Spartanburg Phillies in 1993 and eventually moved them to Kannapolis, retained 
a minority share of the team's ownership. A group led by Reese L. Smith 
III has announced the purchase of the Intimidators, subject to approval 
by the South Atlantic League, Minor League Baseball and the Commissioner 
of Baseball.[7] The Kannapolis city council voted to transfer the lease 
of the stadium to Intimidators Baseball Club LLC. The city is studying 
the possibility of building a new stadium to replace Intimidators Stadium, 
owned by the city since 2012.[8] The Kannapolis franchise has appeared 
in two SAL championship series, winning one: Pitchers Catchers Infielders 
Outfielders Manager Coaches 7-day disabled list * On Chicago White Sox 
40-man roster # Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve list ‡ Restricted list § Suspended 
list † Temporary inactive list Roster updated April 22, 2016 Transactions 
→ More MiLB rosters → Chicago White Sox minor league players As of July 
5, 2014 Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; R = Runs scored; H = Hits; 
2B = Doubles; 3B = Triples; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in; BB = 
Base on balls; SO = Strikeouts; AVG = Batting average; SB = Stolen bases 
Note: W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; G = Games pitched; 
GS = Games started; SV = Saves; IP = Innings pitched; H = Hits allowed; 
R = Runs allowed; ER = Earned runs allowed; HR = Home runs allowed; BB 
