The Kansas City Monarchs were the longest-running franchise in the history 
of baseball's Negro Leagues. Operating in Kansas City, Missouri and owned 
by J. L. Wilkinson, they were charter members of the Negro National League 
from 1920 to 1930. J. L. Wilkinson was the first Caucasian owner at the 
time of the establishment of the team.[1] In 1930, the Monarchs became 
the first professional baseball team to use a portable lighting system 
which was transported from game to game in trucks [2] to play games at 
night, five years before any major league team did. The Monarchs won ten 
league championships before integration, and triumphed in the first Negro 
League World Series in 1924. The Monarchs had only one season in which 
they did not have a winning record.[3] After sending more players to the 
major leagues than any other Negro League franchise, the team was finally 
disbanded in 1965. The Monarchs were formed in 1920, primarily from two 
sources. Owner J. L. Wilkinson drew players from his All Nations barnstorming 
team, which had been inactive during World War I, and the 25th Infantry 
Wreckers, an all-black team recruited into the U.S. Army almost exclusively 
for their playing talent. He put together a formidable collection of talent, 
including pitcher/outfielder Bullet Rogan, an eventual Hall of Famer who 
established himself as one of the most popular stars of the new league; 
sluggers Dobie Moore, Heavy Johnson, George Carr, and Hurley McNair; and 
pitchers Rube Currie and Cliff Bell. Immediate contenders, the Monarchs 
became bitter rivals to black baseball's reigning power, Rube Foster's 
Chicago American Giants. After three years of failing to break the Giants' 
hold on the pennant, Wilkinson fired manager Sam Crawford in mid-1923, 
replacing him with veteran Cuban star José Méndez, who sparked the Monarchs 
to the league championship. Repeating in 1924, the Monarchs participated 
in the first Negro League World Series, defeating the Eastern Colored League 
champion Hilldale team from Darby, Pennsylvania, in a thrilling ten-game 
series (five wins, four losses, and one tie). In this series, Méndez had 
an ERA of 1.42 in four of the games and was responsible for a shutout in 
the one game he was the starting pitcher in.[4] Motivated by the Monarchs' 
runaway pennant victory, NNL president Rube Foster changed the league schedule 
to a split-season format for 1925. Kansas City nevertheless took the league 
title again in 1925, but lost the World Series to Hilldale when Rogan was 
injured just before the series began and won one game and lost five to 
Hilldale.[5] Even though Méndez was the manager, it was still possible 
to see him on the mound during the few years he held the position.[6] Among 
the team's regulars during these years were the brilliant-fielding second 
baseman/shortstop Newt Allen who in the 1924 series alone had an average 
of .282 and seven doubles [7] and Frank Duncan, one of the best-regarded 
defensive catchers in Negro League history. Newt Joseph played third base 
for the Monarchs from 1922 through their NNL years, hitting a composite 
.284 during that time.[8] In 1926 manager Méndez returned to Cuba, and 
Rogan took over as player/manager. He kept up the Monarchs' tradition of 
fine pitching, as the team's staff over the next few years featured such 
Negro League greats as Chet Brewer, William Bell, and lefty Andy Cooper. 
The club traded for legendary Cuban outfielder Cristóbal Torriente, but 
also permanently lost the services of star shortstop Dobie Moore, whose 
career ended that year due to a severe off-the-field injury. After winning 
the first-half pennant, the Monarchs dropped a best of nine playoff to 
the Chicago American Giants when Rogan lost both games of a series-closing 
doubleheader to the young Bill Foster (another eventual Hall of Famer). 
In 1928 the Monarchs narrowly missed a second-half title. They made up 
for this by copping another NNL title in 1929, winning both halves with 
the best overall single-season record ever compiled by a Negro League team 
(62 wins, 17 losses). By this time, the pitcher Andy Cooper who had made 
a name for himself by playing for seven years with the Detroit Stars had 
joined the Monarchs and aided them winning the 1929 pennant.[9] Unfortunately 
no World Series was played that year between the Monarchs and the Baltimore 
Black Sox, champions of the eastern American Negro League. Following the 
death of the original league, the Monarchs spent several years as an independent 
team, mostly barnstorming through the Midwest, West, and western Canada. 
They frequently toured with the House of David baseball team. Hall of Famers 
Hilton Smith, a pitcher, and Willard Brown, a slugging shortstop/outfielder 
with a consistent batting average of over .300,[10] became Monarch mainstays 
during this time. During the 1940s, Willard Brown became the go-to home 
run hitter for the Monarchs.[11] With Andy Cooper now at the helm, the 
Monarchs became charter members of the Negro American League in 1937, winning 
the first league title. Andy Cooper was responsible for leading the Monarchs 
to bring home the pennant in 1939 and 1940.[12] The Kansas City Monarchs 
then won the next two league championships and won [13] winning the renewed 
Negro League World Series in 1942 in four straight games against the Homestead 
Grays. At the start of this run the Monarchs acquired their most famous 
player, Hall of Fame pitcher Satchel Paige, who had since his rookie season 
in 1927 built a reputation as the best hurler in black baseball for the 
Birmingham Black Barons, Pittsburgh Crawfords, and several other teams.[14] 
Suffering from an arm injury and generally thought to be done, Paige joined 
the Monarchs' B team in 1939; by 1940 he had recovered and been called 
up to the Monarchs' main squad, where he became their top drawing card. 
Paige was the subject of a lot of stories, both true and folklore, and 
became a legend to people who don’t even follow baseball. For example, 
he was known to have known the outfielders to sit on the ground behind 
him while he struck out the hitter and there was someone on base that could 
possibly tie the game up. Paige also warmed up before pitching in a game 
by throwing across a gum wrapper as home plate.[15] Paige led another superb 
Monarchs' staff that included fellow Hall of Famer Hilton Smith, the veteran 
Chet Brewer, Booker McDaniels, Jim LaMarque, and several others. They won 
one last NAL pennant in 1946, but lost a seven-game World Series to the 
Newark Eagles; in this series, they lost four games and won three.[16] 
In 1945, UCLA football star and Army lieutenant Jackie Robinson hit .387 
as the Monarchs' shortstop. He became the first Monarch to make the jump 
to white baseball, signing with the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1946. He broke 
the minor league color line in 1946 with the Montreal Royals, and integrated 
the major leagues with the Dodgers in 1947. As baseball gradually desegregated 
in the late 1940s and 1950s, the Monarchs developed a niche as the foremost 
developer of black talent for the major leagues. The team sent more players 
to the majors than any other Negro League franchise, including Robinson, 
Paige, Ernie Banks, Elston Howard, Hank Thompson, and Willard Brown. Newt 
Allen succeeded Cooper as manager in 1941, and was followed by Frank Duncan 
in 1942. Duncan stayed at the helm through the 1947 season winning two 
league titles and one world title. After Duncan stepped down, longtime 
first baseman Buck O'Neil took over. Then Monarchs lost the league title 
to the Birmingham Black Barons in 1948 which prevented them from appearing 
in the last Negro World Series. 1948 was also the year that Wilkinson sold 
the Monarchs to Tom Baird who owned the team through their minor league 
days in the 1950s.[17] The Monarchs won the league's western division first-half 
pennant in 1949, but declined to participate in a playoff with the Chicago 
American Giants, as their roster was depleted by player sales to major 
league clubs. They won the NAL West Division title in 1950 but did not 
meet the eastern champion Indianapolis Clowns that year. They won a half-season 
pennant in 1951 but lost a playoff. O'Neil won his only two league titles 
in 1953 and 1955, with a last-place finish sandwiched between in 1954 as 
the Negro American League of the 1950s declined in quality and shrank in 
size, while in the process grooming a number of eventual major league players. 
The Monarchs played their home games in the minor league Kansas City Blues' 
Association Park from 1920 to 1923, and moved to the Blues' new park, Muehlebach 
Field, in mid-1923. They mostly barnstormed in the early-to-mid-1930s, 
but used Muehlebach (later known as Ruppert Stadium or Blues Stadium at 
different times) from 1937 until 1954, when they went to full-time barnstorming 
in response to the arrival of the Kansas City Athletics in 1955 because 
they had to pay more money to use the stadium. To help raise money for 
the team, Tom Baird let some minor league teams buy some of his players 
and fired his manager, Buck O’Neil, who became a scout for the Chicago 
Cubs.[18] The team was sold to Ted Rasberry and moved its base to Grand 
Rapids, Michigan, though retaining the name "Kansas City Monarchs". The 
Negro American League ceased operations in 1962, and the Monarchs finally 
disbanded in 1965. The Kansas City Monarchs were one of a few Negro league 
teams that informally employed a farm team. The Monroe Monarchs played 
from the late 1920s to 1935, mostly as a minor league team loosely associated 
with Kansas City.[19] Ernie Banks Willard Brown Andy Cooper Satchel Paige* 
Jackie Robinson Bullet Rogan Hilton Smith* J. L. Wilkinson* The Kansas 
City Royals have honored the Monarchs by wearing replica uniforms during 
regular-season baseball games on several occasions, including July 14, 
2001 (at Pittsburgh), July 1, 2007 and May 30, 2009 (at home vs. White 
Sox), June 9, 2012 (at Pittsburgh), July 21, 2012 (at home vs. Minnesota), 
August 24, 2013 (at home vs. Washington Nationals), May 18, 2014 (at home 
vs. Baltimore), May 17, 2015 (at home vs. New York Yankees) and May 15, 
2016 (at home vs. Atlanta). Throwback jerseys worn during Royals home games 
have typically been auctioned as a fundraiser for the Negro Leagues Baseball 
