The Kansas City metropolitan area is a 14-county metropolitan area anchored 
by Kansas City, Missouri, that straddles the border between the U.S. states 
of Missouri and Kansas. With a population of about 2,340,000, it ranks 
as the second largest metropolitan area with its core in Missouri (after 
Greater St. Louis). Alongside Kansas City, the area includes a number of 
other cities and suburbs, the largest being Overland Park, Kansas; Kansas 
City, Kansas; and Independence, Missouri; all over 100,000 in population.The 
Mid-America Regional Council (MARC) serves as the Council of Governments 
and the Metropolitan Planning Organization for the area. The larger Kansas 
City Metropolitan Area as seen on a map can be visualized roughly as four 
quadrants: The map's northeast quadrant is locally referred to as "north 
of the river" or "the Northland". It includes parts of Clay County, Missouri 
including North Kansas City, Missouri. North Kansas City is bounded by 
a bend in the Missouri River that defines a border between Wyandotte County, 
Kansas and Clay County, Missouri running approximately North-South and 
a border between North Kansas City, Missouri and Kansas City, Missouri 
running approximately East-West. The river band's sharpest part forms a 
peninsula containing the Kansas City Downtown Airport. The southeast quadrant 
includes Kansas City, Missouri and surrounding areas in Missouri. It includes 
the notorious Grandview Triangle. The southwest quadrant includes all of 
Johnson County, Kansas, which includes the towns in the area known as Shawnee 
Mission, Kansas. Interstate 35 runs diagonally through Johnson County, 
Kansas from the southwest to downtown Kansas City, Missouri. The northwest 
quadrant contains Wyandotte County, Kansas and parts of Platte County, 
Missouri. Wyandotte County, Kansas, sometimes referred to as just Wyandotte, 
which contains Kansas City, Kansas, Bonner Springs, Kansas and Edwardsville, 
Kansas is governed by a single unified government. Often the Wyandotte 
government is referred to simply as "The Unified Government". Another bend 
in the Missouri River forms the county line between Wyandotte County, Kansas 
and Platte County, Missouri to the north and northeast. Downtown almost 
always refers to downtown Kansas City, Missouri. Downtown is the Kansas 
City's historic center, located entirely within Kansas City, Missouri, 
and containing the city's original town site, business districts and residential 
neighborhoods. Downtown is bounded by the Missouri River on the north, 
the Missouri-Kansas state line on the west, 31st Street on the south and 
the Blue River on the east. The downtown area includes the Central Business 
District and its buildings, which form the city's skyline. The downtown 
loop is formed by Interstates 670, 70 and 35. Within the downtown loop 
are many of the tall buildings and skyscrapers that make up the city's 
skyline. Also within the downtown loop are small, distinct neighborhoods 
such as Quality Hill, the Garment District, the Financial District, the 
Convention Center District, and the Power and Light District. Other neighborhoods 
within downtown are the River Market and Columbus Park, both located between 
the downtown loop and the Missouri River. Between the downtown loop and 
the state line are the Westside neighborhood and the West Bottoms, located 
at the bottom of the bluff adjacent to Kaw Point. East of the loop are 
the 18th & Vine District, the North Bottoms, East Bottoms, Northeast, and 
Pendleton Heights. South of the loop is the Crossroads District, Union 
Hill, Crown Center, Hospital Hill, Longfellow, Wendell Phillips, and Washington 
Wheatley. The Kansas City Convention Center, Municipal Auditorium, City 
Hall, Lyric Theater, Midland Theatre, Ilus Davis Park, and Barney Allis 
Plaza are within the Central Business District inside the downtown loop. 
The Sprint Center and the College Basketball Experience are within Power 
& Light District, also within the downtown loop. The Kauffman Center for 
the Performing Arts is perched upon a high point immediately south of the 
downtown loop. South of the loop is the Crossroads District, Union Station, 
Crown Center, the National World War I Museum, Liberty Memorial, Penn Valley 
Park, Truman Medical Center, Children's Mercy Hospital, and the 18th & 
Vine District. North of the loop are City Market within the River Market 
and Richard L. Berkeley Riverfront Park. West of the loop within the West 
Bottoms are Kemper Arena and Hale Arena. Midtown is entirely within Kansas 
City, Missouri, just south of downtown, and bounded by 31st Street on the 
north, the state line on the west, West Gregory Boulevard (71st Street) 
on the south, and Troost Avenue on the east. Midtown is the core of the 
metropolitan area, as it contains numerous cultural attractions, shopping 
and entertainment areas, large hospitals, universities, and the metro area's 
most densely populated neighborhoods. Midtown consists of numerous distinct 
and historic neighborhoods such as Westport, Hyde Park, and Southmoreland. 
Shopping is centered on the Country Club Plaza, which contains numerous 
luxury retailers, hotels, and restaurants. Brookside and Westport also 
contain smaller-scale, neighborhood-oriented, and niche-market retailers. 
Midtown is home to Saint Luke's Hospital and Research Medical Center. Cultural 
attractions include the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art, Kemper Museum of Contemporary 
Art, Uptown Theater, Starlight Theater, the Kansas City Zoo, Loose Park, 
and Swope Park. Major educational institutions include the University of 
Missouri-Kansas City, Rockhurst University, Kansas City Art Institute, 
Stowers Institute for Medical Research, Midwest Research Institute, and 
Penn Valley Community College. Also known as "South Kansas City" and sometimes 
called "the Southland," this area consists of the southern half of Kansas 
City, Missouri, as well as the suburbs of Grandview, Harrisonville, Belton, 
Loch Lloyd and Raymore. The Northland is the area north of the Missouri 
River, bordered by the Kansas state line on the west and Missouri Highway 
291 on the east. All of Platte County, Missouri, and much of Clay County 
make up the area. The economy of the Northland is dominated by Kansas City 
International Airport, Ford Motor Kansas City Assembly Plant, the Zona 
Rosa shopping community, and three riverboat casinos. Communities of the 
Northland outside the city limits include Parkville, Kearney, Liberty, 
Platte City, Gladstone , Riverside, and North Kansas City. Eastern Jackson 
County is an area of the Kansas City Metro that contains the far-eastern 
urban side of Kansas City, Missouri, as well as the Missouri suburbs of 
Independence, Blue Springs, Raytown, Lees Summit, Grain Valley, Oak Grove, 
Sugar Creek, Lake Lotawana, Greenwood, Buckner, Pleasant Hill, and Lone 
Jack. In recent years, the Kansas City metropolitan area has been experiencing 
continued growth. Between July 2000 and July 2007, the population of the 
Kansas City MSA grew from 1,842,965 to an estimated 2,037,357, an increase 
of 10%.[1] The MSA covers a total area of 7,952 sq mi (20,600 km2) including 
97 sq mi (250 km2) of water. Often associated with Kansas City, the cities 
of Lawrence, Kansas, and St. Joseph, Missouri, are identified as separate 
Metropolitan Statistical Areas.[2] The Kansas City-Overland Park-Kansas 
City, Missouri-Kansas Combined Statistical Area, which encompasses the 
Kansas City MO-KS MSA, the Warrensburg, Missouri Micropolitan Statistical 
Area (µSA) (in Johnson County, Missouri), and the Atchison, Kansas µSA 
(in Atchison County, Kansas), covers a total area of 9,220 sq mi (23,900 km2) 
including 103 sq mi (270 km2) of water. The Kansas City metropolitan area 
has more freeway lane miles per capita than any other large metropolitan 
area in the United States (over 27% more than the second-place Dallas/Fort 
Worth Metroplex), over 50% more than the average American metro area, and 
nearly 75% more than the large metro area with the least: Las Vegas.[3] 
The Kansas City area is a confluence of four major U.S. interstate highways: 
Other interstates that cross through the area include: U.S. Highways serving 
the Kansas City Metro Area include: Kansas highways in the area include: 
Missouri highways in the area include: Other notable roads in the area 
are: The Kansas City metropolitan area is served by two airports. It is 
primarily served by Kansas City International Airport, located 15 miles 
northwest of downtown Kansas City, Missouri, was built to serve as a world 
hub for the supersonic transport and Boeing 747. The airport's gates were 
positioned 100 feet (30 m) from the street; however, since the September 
11, 2001 attacks, these have undergone expensive overhauls, retrofitting 
it to incorporate elements of conventional security systems. The much smaller 
Charles B. Wheeler Downtown Airport, located to the immediate north of 
downtown near the Missouri River, was the original headquarters of Trans 
World Airlines (TWA) and houses the Airline History Museum. It served as 
the area's major airport until 1972, when Kansas City International (then 
known as Mid-Continent International Airport and was home to an Overhaul 
Base for TWA) became the primary airport for the metropolitan area after 
undergoing $150 million in upgrades that were approved by voters in a 1966 
bond issue. Downtown Airport is still used to this day for general aviation 
and airshows. Union Station serves as a hub for Amtrak, which maintains 
daily service by long-distance trains to and from Kansas City, Missouri. 
Public transportation in the Kansas City area is only provided by city 
buses operated by the Kansas City Area Transportation Authority (KCATA). 
The Metro Area Express (MAX) went online as Kansas City, Missouri's first 
bus rapid transit line in July 2005, and operates and is marketed akin 
to a rail system as opposed to a local bus line; the MAX links the River 
Market, Downtown, Union Station, Crown Center and the Country Club Plaza.[4][5] 
Buses in Johnson County, Kansas, are operated by Johnson County Transit 
(known as "The JO"). The Kansas City Downtown Streetcar is a two-mile modern 
streetcar line in downtown Kansas City that is scheduled to be completed 
in late 2015, and will be maintained and operated by the Kansas City Streetcar 
Authority, a non-profit corporation made up of private sector stakeholders 
and city appointees. A ballot initiative to fund construction of the $102 
million line was approved by voters on December 12, 2012.[6] The system 
will run between River Market and Union Station, mostly on Main Street,[7] 
with extensions to the starter line planned for addition at a later date. 
See related article: voy:Kansas City (Missouri) at Wikivoyage The Missouri 
side of the metropolitan area shares a grid system with Johnson County 
on the Kansas side. Most east-west streets are numbered and most north-south 
streets named. Addresses on east-west streets are numbered from Main Street 
in Kansas City, Missouri, and on north-south streets from St. John Avenue 
(or the Missouri River, in the River Market area). The direction 'South' 
in street and address numbers is generally implied if 'North' is not specified, 
except for numbered 'avenues' in North Kansas City. In the northland, east-west 
streets use the prefix N.E. or N.W., depending on the side of N. Main on 
which they lie. Other nearby institutions: The Kansas City Star is the 
metropolitan area's major daily newspaper. The McClatchy Company, which 
owns The Star, is also the owner of two suburban weeklies, Lee's Summit 
Journal and Olathe Journal. The Kansas City Kansan serves Wyandotte County, 
having moved from print to an online format in 2009. Additional weekly 
papers in the metropolitan area include the Liberty Tribune, Sun Newspapers 
of Johnson County, The Examiner in Independence and eastern Jackson County, 
and The Pitch. The area is also served by two newspapers focused the area's 
faith-based population: The Metro Voice Christian Newspaper and the Jewish 
Chronicle. The city's Hispanic and Latino American community is served 
by Dos Mundos, a bilingual newspaper with articles printed in Spanish and 
English, and Mi Raza magazine, the area's only weekly Hispanic publication 
printed in Spanish. The Kansas City Call serves the African American community 
publishing its paper weekly. According to Arbitron, about 1.5 million people 
over the age of 12 live within the Kansas City DMA, making it the 30th 
largest market for radio and 31st for television according to Nielsen. 
The Kansas City television and radio markets cover 32 counties encompassing 
northwestern Missouri and northeast Kansas. Television stations in the 
Kansas City metropolitan area, with all major network affiliates represented, 
include: The Kansas City television market is in very close proximity to 
two other media markets, St. Joseph and Topeka. As such, most of the television 
stations in the Kansas City area are receivable over-the-air in portions 
of both markets, including their principal cities; likewise, stations from 
Topeka are receivable as far east as Kansas City, Kansas and stations from 
St. Joseph are viewable as far south as Kansas City, Missouri's immediate 
northern suburbs. Over 30 FM and 20 AM radio stations broadcast in the 
Kansas City area, with stations from Topeka, St. Joseph and Carrollton 
also reaching into the metropolitan area. The highest-rated radio stations, 
according to Arbitron are: Hispanics, which account for 5% of the market's 
population, are served by three AM radio stations: The Kansas City Metropolitan 
Area's largest private employer is Cerner Corporation.[13] Cerner, a global 
healthcare IT company which is headquartered in North Kansas City, employs 
nearly 10,000 people in the area with a total workforce of nearly 20,000 
people including global employees. In August 2014, the company announced 
its acquisition of competitor Siemens Healthcare, which, if approved, will 
further increase Cerner's total number of employees.[14] Cerner has several 
campuses across the area with its World Headquarters building in North 
Kansas City, Innovations Campus in South Kansas City, and Continuous Campus 
in the Kansas City, Kansas area. Other major employers and business enterprises 
are AT&T, BNSF Railway, Asurion, Sprint Corporation, Citigroup, EMBARQ, 
Farmers Insurance Group, Garmin, Hallmark Cards, Harley-Davidson, Husqvarna, 
H&R Block, General Motors, Honeywell, Ford Motor Company, MillerCoors, 
State Street Corporation, The Kansas City Star, and Waddell & Reed, some 
of which are headquartered in the metropolitan area. Kansas City also has 
a large pharmaceutical industry, with companies such as Bayer and Aventis 
having a large presence. The following companies and organizations, excluding 
educational institutions, are among the larger ones that are currently 
headquartered in or have since relocated from the metropolitan area (headquarters 
of most companies are located in Kansas City, Missouri, unless otherwise 
noted): The Kansas City Federal Reserve Bank is one of twelve such banks 
