Kansas City is the largest city in the U.S. state of Missouri and the sixth 
largest city in the Midwest. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the city 
had an estimated population of 475,378 in 2015,[6] making it the 36th largest 
city by population in the United States. It is the anchor city of the Kansas 
City metropolitan area, which straddles the Kansas–Missouri border. Kansas 
City was founded in the 1830s as a Missouri River port at its confluence 
with the Kansas River coming in from the west. On June 1, 1850 the town 
of Kansas was incorporated; shortly after came the establishment of the 
Kansas Territory. Confusion between the two ensued and the name Kansas 
City was assigned to distinguish them soon thereafter. Sitting on Missouri's 
western border, with Downtown near the confluence of the Kansas and Missouri 
rivers, the modern city encompasses some 319.03 square miles (826.3 km2), 
making it the 23rd largest city by total area in the United States. Most 
of the city lies within Jackson County, but portions spill into Clay, Cass, 
and Platte counties. Along with Independence, it serves as one of the two 
county seats for Jackson County. Major suburbs include the Missouri cities 
of Independence and Lee's Summit and the Kansas cities of Overland Park, 
Olathe, and Kansas City. The city is composed of several neighborhoods, 
including the River Market District in the north, the 18th and Vine District 
in the east, and the Country Club Plaza in the south. Kansas City is also 
known for its cuisine (including its distinctive style of barbecue), its 
craft breweries and its major league sports teams. Kansas City, Missouri 
was officially incorporated as a town on June 1, 1850, and as a city on 
March 28, 1853. The territory straddling the border between Missouri and 
Kansas at the confluence of the Kansas and Missouri rivers was considered 
a good place to build settlements. The first documented European visitor 
to Kansas City was Étienne de Veniard, Sieur de Bourgmont, who was also 
the first European to explore the lower Missouri River. Criticized for 
his response to the Native American attack on Fort Détroit, he had deserted 
his post as fort commander and was avoiding French authorities. Bourgmont 
lived with a Native American wife in a village about 90 miles (140 km) 
east near Brunswick, Missouri, where he illegally traded furs. To clear 
his name, he wrote Exact Description of Louisiana, of Its Harbors, Lands 
and Rivers, and Names of the Indian Tribes That Occupy It, and the Commerce 
and Advantages to Be Derived Therefrom for the Establishment of a Colony 
in 1713 followed in 1714 by The Route to Be Taken to Ascend the Missouri 
River. In the documents, he describes the junction of the "Grande Riv[ière] 
des Cansez" and Missouri River, making him the first to adopt those names. 
French cartographer Guillaume Delisle used the descriptions to make the 
area's first reasonably accurate map. The Spanish took over the region 
in the Treaty of Paris in 1763, but were not to play a major role other 
than taxing and licensing Missouri River ship traffic. The French continued 
their fur trade under Spanish license. The Chouteau family operated under 
Spanish license at St. Louis in the lower Missouri Valley as early as 1765 
and in 1821 the Chouteaus reached Kansas City, where François Chouteau 
established Chouteau's Landing. After the 1804 Louisiana Purchase, Lewis 
and Clark visited the confluence of the Kansas and Missouri rivers, noting 
it was a good place to build a fort. In 1831, a group of Mormons from New 
York settled in what would become the city. They built the first school 
within Kansas City's current boundaries, but were forced out by mob violence 
in 1833 and their settlement remained vacant.[7] In 1833 John McCoy established 
West Port along the Santa Fe Trail, 3-mile (4.8-kilometre) away from the 
river. In 1834 McCoy established Westport Landing on a bend in the Missouri 
to serve as a landing point for West Port. Soon after, the Kansas Town 
Company, a group of investors, began to settle the area, taking their name 
from an English spelling of "Cansez." In 1850, the landing area was incorporated 
as the Town of Kansas.[8] By that time, the Town of Kansas, Westport and 
nearby Independence, had become critical points in America's westward expansion. 
Three major trails – the Santa Fe, California, and Oregon – all passed 
through Jackson County. On February 22, 1853, the City of Kansas was created 
with a newly elected mayor. It had an area of 0.70 square miles (1.8 km2) 
and a population of 2,500. The boundary lines at that time extended from 
the middle of the Missouri River south to what is now Ninth Street, and 
from Bluff Street on the west to a point between Holmes Road and Charlotte 
Street on the east.[9] The Kansas City area was rife with animosity just 
prior to the U.S. Civil War. Kansas successfully petitioned the U.S. to 
enter the Union as a free state that did not allow slavery under the new 
doctrine of popular sovereignty. Missouri had many slaves. Slavery sympathizers 
crossed into Kansas to sway the state towards allowing slavery, at first 
by ballot box and then by bloodshed. During the Civil War, the city and 
its immediate surroundings were the focus of intense military activity. 
Although the First Battle of Independence in August 1862 resulted in a 
Confederate victory, the Confederates were unable to leverage their win 
in any significant fashion, as Kansas City was occupied by Union troops 
and proved too heavily fortified to assault. The Second Battle of Independence, 
which occurred on October 21–22, 1864 as part of Sterling Price's Missouri 
expedition of 1864, also resulted in a Confederate triumph. Once again 
their victory proved hollow, as Price was decisively defeated in the pivotal 
Battle of Westport the next day, effectively ending Confederate efforts 
to regain Missouri. General Thomas Ewing, in response to a successful raid 
on nearby Lawrence, Kansas, led by William Quantrill, issued General Order 
No. 11, forcing the eviction of residents in four western Missouri counties 
– including Jackson – except those living in the city and nearby communities 
and those whose allegiance to the Union was certified by Ewing. After the 
Civil War, Kansas City grew rapidly. The selection of the city over Leavenworth, 
Kansas, for the Hannibal & St. Joseph Railroad bridge over the Missouri 
River brought about significant growth. The population exploded after 1869, 
when the Hannibal Bridge, designed by Octave Chanute, opened. The boom 
prompted a name change to Kansas City in 1889 and the city limits to extend 
south and east. Westport became part of Kansas City on December 2, 1897. 
In 1900, Kansas City was the 22nd largest city in the country, with a population 
of 163,752 residents.[10] Kansas City, guided by architect George Kessler, 
became a forefront example of the City Beautiful movement, offering a network 
of boulevards and parks.[11] The relocation of Union Station to its current 
location in 1914 and the opening of the Liberty Memorial in 1923 provided 
two of the city's most identifiable landmarks. Robert A. Long, president 
of the Liberty Memorial Association, was a driving force in the funding 
for construction. Long was a longtime resident and wealthy businessman. 
He built the R.A. Long Building for the Long-Bell Lumber Company, his home, 
Corinthian Hall (now the Kansas City Museum) and Longview Farm. Further 
spurring Kansas City's growth was the opening of the innovative Country 
Club Plaza development by J.C. Nichols in 1925, as part of his Country 
Club District plan. At the start of the 20th century, political machines 
gained clout in the city, with the one led by Tom Pendergast dominating 
the city by 1925. Several important buildings and structures were built 
during this time, including the Kansas City City Hall and the Jackson County 
Courthouse. The machine fell in 1939 when Pendergast, riddled with health 
problems, pleaded guilty to tax evasion after long federal investigations. 
His biographers have summed up Pendergast's uniqueness: Pendergast may 
bear comparison to various big-city bosses, but his open alliance with 
hardened criminals, his cynical subversion of the democratic process, his 
monarchistic style of living, his increasingly insatiable gambling habit, 
his grasping for a business empire, and his promotion of Kansas City as 
a wide-open town with every kind of vice imaginable, combined with his 
professed compassion for the poor and very real role as city builder, made 
him bigger than life, difficult to characterize.[12] Kansas City's suburban 
development began with a streetcar system in the early decades of the 20th 
century. The city's first suburbs were in the neighborhoods of Pendleton 
Heights and Quality Hill. After World War II, many relatively affluent 
residents left for suburbs in Johnson County, Kansas, and eastern Jackson 
County, Missouri. Many also went north of the Missouri River, where Kansas 
City had incorporated areas between the 1940s and 1970s. In 1950, African 
Americans represented 12.2% of Kansas City's population.[10] The sprawling 
characteristics of the city and its environs today mainly took shape after 
1960s race riots. The assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr. was a catalyst 
for the 1968 Kansas City riot. At this time, slums were forming in the 
inner city, and many who could afford to do so, left for the suburbs and 
outer edges of the city. The post-World War II idea of suburbs and the 
"American Dream" also contributed to the sprawl of the area. The city's 
population continued to grow, but the inner city declined. The city's most 
populous ethnic group, non-Hispanic whites,[13] declined from 89.5% in 
1930 to 54.9% in 2010.[10] In 1940, the city had about 400,000 residents; 
by 2000, the same area was home to only about 180,000.[clarification needed] 
From 1940 to 1960, the city more than doubled its physical size, while 
increasing its population by only about 75,000. By 1970, the city covered 
approximately 316 square miles (820 km2), more than five times its size 
in 1940. The Hyatt Regency walkway collapse was a major disaster that occurred 
on July 17, 1981, killing 114 people and injuring more than 200 others 
during a tea dance. At the time, it was the deadliest structural collapse 
in US history. Power & Light and the Sprint Center were constructed from 
2005 to 2008, creating an entertainment district downtown. Both were built 
after a series of failed projects. The Kansas City Streetcar was the first 
rail transit line in the region in almost 60 years, beginning operations 
on May 6, 2016. It was constructed after a series of ballot failures over 
the preceding decades. The project proceeded after a legal challenge that 
saw the project election validated by the state supreme court.[14] The 
city has a total area of 319.03 square miles (826.28 km2), of which, 314.95 
square miles (815.72 km2) is land and 4.08 square miles (10.57 km2) is 
water.[1] Bluffs overlook the rivers and river bottom areas. Kansas City 
proper is bowl-shaped and is surrounded to the north and south by glacier-carved 
limestone and bedrock cliffs. Kansas City is situated at the junction between 
the Dakota and Minnesota ice lobes during the maximum late Independence 
glaciation of the Pleistocene epoch. The Kansas and Missouri rivers cut 
wide valleys into the terrain when the glaciers melted and drained. A partially 
filled spillway valley crosses the central city. This valley is an eastward 
continuation of the Turkey Creek Valley. It is the closest major city to 
the geographic center of the contiguous United States, or "Lower 48". Kansas 
City, Missouri, comprises more than 240[15] neighborhoods, some with histories 
as independent cities or as the sites of major events. Downtown is undergoing 
redevelopment with new condominiums, apartments, offices. The redeveloped 
Power & Light District offers indoor/outdoor shopping, dining and entertainment 
including bars, restaurants, a grocery store, a roof-top pool club called 
The Jones, a performing arts center and the Sprint Center. Downtown/midtown 
has become an attractive residential option. Nearby neighborhoods include 
historic Westport, Ivanhoe, Hyde Park, Squire Park, the Crossroads Arts 
District, 18th and Vine Historic District, Pendleton Heights, Quality Hill, 
the West Bottoms and the River Market. Two other "near" downtown neighborhoods 
that are very popular and have unique appeal are the Country Club Plaza 
(or simply the "Plaza"), south Plaza and nearby Brookside. The Nelson-Atkins 
Museum opened its Euro-Style Bloch addition in 2007, and the Safdie-designed 
Kauffman Center for the Performing Arts opened in 2011. The Power and Light 
Building is influenced by the Art Deco style and sports a glowing sky beacon. 
The new world headquarters of H&R Block is a 20-story all-glass oval bathed 
in a soft green light. The four industrial artworks atop the support towers 
of the Kansas City Convention Center (Bartle Hall) were once the subject 
of ridicule, but now define the night skyline near the new Sprint Center 
along with One Kansas City Place (Missouri's tallest office tower), the 
KCTV-Tower (Missouri's tallest freestanding structure) and the Liberty 
Memorial, a WWI memorial and museum that flaunts simulated flames and smoke 
billowing into the night skyline. Kansas City is home to significant national 
and international architecture firms including ACI Boland, BNIM, 360 Architecture, 
HNTB, Populous. Frank Lloyd Wright designed two private residences and 
Community Christian Church there. Kansas City hosts over 200 working fountains. 
Notable examples are located on the Country Club Plaza. Designs range from 
French-inspired traditional to modern. Highlights include the Black Marble 
H&R Block fountain in front of Union Station, which features synchronized 
water jets; the Nichols Bronze Horses at the corner of Main and J,C, Nichols 
Parkway at the entrance to the Plaza Shopping District; and the fountain 
at Hallmark Cards World Headquarters in Crown Center. Since its inception 
in 1857, City Market has been one of the largest and most enduring public 
farmers' markets in the American Midwest, linking growers and small businesses 
to the community. More than 30 full-time merchants operate year-round and 
offer specialty foods, fresh meats and seafood, restaurants and cafes, 
floral, home accessories and more.[16] The City Market is also home to 
the Arabia Steamboat Museum, which houses artifacts from a steamboat that 
sank near Kansas City in 1856.[16] Downtown Kansas City is an area of 2.9 
square miles (7.5 km2) bounded by the Missouri River to the north, 31st 
Street to the south, Troost Avenue to the East, and State Line Road to 
the west. Areas near Downtown Kansas City include the 39th Street District, 
which is known as Restaurant Row,[17] and features one of Kansas City's 
largest selections of independently owned restaurants and boutique shops. 
It is a center of literary and visual arts, and bohemian culture. Crown 
Center is the headquarters of Hallmark Cards and a major downtown shopping 
and entertainment complex. It is connected to Union Station by a series 
of covered walkways. The Country Club Plaza, or simply "the Plaza", is 
an upscale, outdoor shopping and entertainment district. It was the first 
suburban shopping district in the United States,[18] designed to accommodate 
shoppers arriving by automobile,[19] and is surrounded by apartments and 
condominiums, including a number of high rise buildings. The associated 
Country Club District to the south includes the Sunset Hill and Brookside 
neighborhoods, and is traversed by Ward Parkway, a landscaped boulevard 
known for its statuary, fountains and large, historic homes. Kansas City's 
Union Station is home to Science City, restaurants, shopping, theaters, 
and the city's Amtrak facility. After years of neglect and seas of parking 
lots, Downtown Kansas City currently is undergoing a period of change with 
over $6 billion in development since 2000. Many residential properties 
recently have been or currently are under redevelopment in three surrounding 
warehouse loft districts and the Central Business District. The Power & 
Light District, a new, nine-block entertainment district comprising numerous 
restaurants, bars, and retail shops, was developed by the Cordish Company 
of Baltimore, Maryland. Its first tenant opened on November 9, 2007. It 
is anchored by the Sprint Center, a 19,000-seat complex that has become 
a top draw for sports and musical entertainment. Elton John was the first 
performer to play at the Sprint Center. Kansas City lies in the Midwestern 
United States, as well as near the geographic center of the country, at 
the confluence of the longest river in the country, the Missouri River, 
and the Kansas River (also known as the Kaw River). The city lies in the 
northern periphery of the humid subtropical zone.[20] but is interchangeable 
with the humid continental climate due to roughly 104 air frosts on average 
per annum.[21] The city is part of USDA plant hardiness zones 5b and 6a.[22] 
Being located in the center of North America, far removed from a significant 
body of water, there is significant potential for extremes of hot and cold 
swings in temperature all year long. Unless otherwise stated, normal figures 
below are based on 1981–2010 data at Downtown Airport. The warmest month 
of the year is July, with a 24-hour average temperature of 81.0 °F (27.2 °C). 
The summer months are hot and unbearably humid, with moist air riding up 
from the Gulf of Mexico, and high temperatures surpass 100 °F (38 °C) on 
5.6 days of the year, and 90 °F (32 °C) on 47 days.[23][24] The coldest 
month of the year is January, with an average temperature of 31.0 °F (−0.6 °C). 
Winters are cold, with 22 days where the high temperature is at or below 
32.0 °F (0.0 °C) and 2.5 nights with a low at or below 0 °F (−18 °C).[23] 
The official record highest temperature is 113 °F (45 °C), set on August 
14, 1936 at Downtown Airport, while the official record lowest is −23 °F 
(−31 °C), set on December 22 and 23, 1989.[23] Normal seasonal snowfall 
is 13.4 inches (34 cm) at Downtown Airport and 18.8 in (48 cm) at Kansas 
City International Airport. The average window for freezing temperatures 
is October 31 to April 4, while for measurable (0.1 in or 0.25 cm) snowfall, 
it is November 27 to March 16 as measured at Kansas City International 
Airport. Precipitation, both in frequency and total accumulation, shows 
a marked uptick in late spring and summer. Kansas City is situated on the 
edge of the "Tornado Alley", a broad region where cold air from the Rocky 
Mountains in Canada collides with warm air from the Gulf of Mexico, leading 
to the formation of powerful storms, especially during the spring. A few 
areas of the Kansas City metropolitan area have had some severe outbreaks 
of tornadoes at different points in the past, including the Ruskin Heights 
tornado in 1957,[25] and the May 2003 tornado outbreak sequence. The region 
can also fall victim to the sporadic ice storm during the winter months, 
such as the 2002 ice storm during which hundreds of thousands of residents 
lost power for days and (in some cases) weeks.[26] Kansas City and its 
outlying areas are also subject to flooding, including the Great Floods 
of 1951 and 1993. According to the 2010 census, the racial composition 
of Kansas City was as follows: Kansas City has the second largest Sudanese 
and Somali populations in the United States. The Latino/Hispanic population 
of Kansas City, which is heavily Mexican and Central American, is spread 
throughout the metropolitan area, with some concentration in the northeast 
part of the city and southwest of downtown. The Asian population, mostly 
Southeast Asian, is partly concentrated within the northeast side to the 
Columbus Park neighborhood in the Greater Downtown area, a historical Italian 
American neighborhood, the UMKC area and in River Market, in northern Kansas 
City.[36][37][38] The Historic Kansas City boundary is roughly 58 square 
miles (150 km2) and has a population density of about 5,000 people per 
sq. mi. It runs from the Missouri River to the north, 79th Street to the 
south, the Blue River to the east, and State Line Road to the west. During 
the 1960s and 1970s, Kansas City annexed large amounts of land, which are 
largely undeveloped to this day. Between the 2000 and 2010 Census counts, 
the urban core of Kansas City continued to drop significantly in population. 
The areas of Greater Downtown in the center city, and sections near I-435 
and I-470 in the south, and Highway 152 in the north are the only areas 
of Kansas City, Missouri, to have seen an increase in population, with 
the Northland seeing the greatest population growth.[39] The federal government 
is the largest employer in the Kansas City metro area. More than 146 federal 
agencies maintain a presence there. Kansas City is one of ten regional 
office cities for the US government.[41] The Internal Revenue Service maintains 
a large service center in Kansas City that occupies nearly 1,400,000 square 
feet (130,000 m2).[42] It is one of only two sites to process paper returns.[43] 
The IRS has approximately 2,700 full-time employees in Kansas City, growing 
to 4,000 during tax season. The General Services Administration has more 
than 800 employees. Most are located at the Bannister Federal Complex in 
South Kansas City. The Bannister Complex is also home to the Kansas City 
Plant, which is a National Nuclear Security Administration facility operated 
by Honeywell. Honeywell employs nearly 2,700 at the Kansas City Plant, 
which produces and assembles 85% of the non-nuclear components of the United 
States nuclear bomb arsenal.[44] The Social Security Administration has 
more than 1,700 employees in the Kansas City area, with more than 1,200 
located at its downtown Mid-America Program Service Center (MAMPSC).[45] 
The United States Postal Service operates post offices in Kansas City. 
The Kansas City Main Post Office is located at 300 West Pershing Road.[46] 
Ford Motor Company operates a large manufacturing facility in Claycomo 
at the Ford Kansas City Assembly Plant, which currently builds the Ford 
F-150. The General Motors Fairfax Assembly Plant is located in adjacent 
Kansas City, Kansas. Smith Electric Vehicles builds electric vehicles in 
the former TWA/American Airlines overhaul facility at Kansas City International 
Airport. One of the largest US drug manufacturing plants is the Sanofi-Aventis 
plant located in south Kansas City on a campus developed by Ewing Kauffman's 
Marion Laboratories.[47] Of late, it has been developing academic and economic 
institutions related to animal health sciences, an effort most recently 
bolstered by the selection of Manhattan, Kansas, at one end of the[48] 
Kansas City Animal Health Corridor, as the site for the National Bio and 
Agro-Defense Facility, which researches animal diseases. Numerous agriculture 
companies operate out of the city. Dairy Farmers of America, the largest 
dairy co-op in the United States is located here. Kansas City Board of 
Trade is the principal trading exchange for hard red winter wheat, the 
principal ingredient of bread. The National Association of Intercollegiate 
Athletics and The National Association of Basketball Coaches are based 
in Kansas City. The business community is serviced by two major business 
magazines, the Kansas City Business Journal (published weekly) and Ingram's 
Magazine (published monthly), as well as other publications, including 
a local society journal, the Independent (published weekly). The Kansas 
City Federal Reserve Bank built a new building that opened in 2008 near 
Union Station. Missouri is the only state to have two of the 12 Federal 
Reserve Bank headquarters (the second is in St. Louis). Kansas City's effort 
to get the bank was helped by former mayor James A. Reed, who as senator, 
broke a tie to pass the Federal Reserve Act.[49] The national headquarters 
for the Veterans of Foreign Wars is headquartered just south of Downtown. 
With a Gross Metropolitan Product of $41.68 billion in 2004, Kansas City's 
(Missouri side only) economy makes up 20.5% of Missouri's Gross State Product.[50] 
In 2014, Kansas City was ranked #6 for real estate investment.[51] Three 
international law firms, Lathrop & Gage, Stinson Leonard Street, and Shook, 
Hardy & Bacon are based in the city. The following notable companies are 
currently headquartered in Kansas City, Missouri: According to the city's 
Fiscal Year 2014-15 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report,[52] the top 
ten principal employers are as follows: Kansas City is often abbreviated 
as KC (abbreviations often refer to the metropolitan area). It is officially 
nicknamed the "City of Fountains". The fountains at Kauffman Stadium, commissioned 
by original Kansas City Royals owner Ewing Kauffman, are the largest privately 
funded fountains in the world.[53] The city has more boulevards than any 
other city except Paris and has been called "Paris of the Plains". Soccer's 
popularity, at both professional and youth levels, as well as Children's 
Mercy Park's popularity as a home stadium for the U.S. Men's National Team 
has to the appellation as the " Soccer Capital of America". Residents are 
known as Kansas Citians. The city is sometimes referred to as the "Heart 
of America", as it is near both the population center of the United States 
and the geographic center of the 48 contiguous states. The Kansas City 
Repertory Theatre is the metropolitan area's top professional theatre company. 
The Starlight Theatre is an 8,105-seat outdoor theatre designed by Edward 
Delk. The Kansas City Symphony was founded by R. Crosby Kemper Jr. in 1982 
to replace the defunct Kansas City Philharmonic, which was founded in 1933. 
The symphony performs at the Kauffman Center for the Performing Arts. The 
current music director and lead conductor of the symphony is Michael Stern. 
Lyric Opera of Kansas City, founded in 1958, performs at the Kauffman Center, 
offers one American contemporary opera production during its season, consisting 
of either four or five productions. The Civic Opera Theater of Kansas City 
performs at the downtown Folly Theater and at the UMKC Performing Arts 
Center. Every summer from mid-June to early July, The Heart of America 
Shakespeare Festival performs at Southmoreland Park near the Nelson-Atkins 
Museum; the festival was founded by Marilyn Strauss in 1993. The Kansas 
City Ballet, founded in 1957 by Tatiana Dokoudovska, is a ballet troupe 
comprising 25 professional dancers and apprentices. Between 1986 and 2000, 
it combined with Dance St. Louis to form the State Ballet of Missouri, 
although it remained in Kansas City. From 1980 to 1995, the Ballet was 
run by dancer and choreographer Todd Bolender. Today, the Ballet offers 
an annual repertory split into three seasons, performing classical to contemporary 
ballets.[54] The Ballet also performs at the Kauffman Center. Kansas City 
is home to The Kansas City Chorale, a professional 24-voice chorus conducted 
by Charles Bruffy. The chorus performs an annual concert series and a concert 
in Phoenix each year with their sister choir, the Phoenix Chorale. The 
Chorale has made nine recordings (three with the Phoenix Chorale).[55] 
Kansas City jazz in the 1930s marked the transition from big bands to the 
bebop influence of the 1940s. The 1979 documentary The Last of the Blue 
Devils portrays this era in interviews and performances by local jazz notables. 
In the 1970s, Kansas City attempted to resurrect the glory of the jazz 
era in a family-friendly atmosphere. In the 1970s, an effort to open jazz 
clubs in the River Quay area of City Market along the Missouri ended in 
a gang war. Three of the new clubs were blown up in what ultimately ended 
Kansas City mob influence in Las Vegas casinos. The annual "Kansas City 
Blues and Jazz Festival" attracts top jazz stars and large out-of-town 
audiences. It was rated Kansas City's "best festival." by Pitch.com.[56] 
Live music venues are found throughout the city, with the highest concentration 
in the Westport entertainment district centered on Broadway and Westport 
Road near the Country Club Plaza, as well as the 18th & Vine area (jazz 
music). A variety of music genres can be heard and have originated there, 
including musicians Janelle Monáe, Puddle of Mudd, Isaac James, The Get 
Up Kids, Shiner, Flee The Seen, The Life and Times, Reggie and the Full 
Effect, Coalesce, The Casket Lottery, The Gadjits, The Rainmakers, Vedera, 
The Elders, Blackpool Lights, The Republic Tigers, Tech N9ne, Krizz Kaliko, 
Kutt Calhoun, Skatterman & Snug Brim, Mac Lethal, and Solè. The large community 
of Irish-Americans numbers over 50,000.[57] The Irish were the first large 
immigrant group to settle in Kansas City and founded its first newspaper.[58] 
The Irish community includes bands, dancers, newspapers, Irish stores and 
the Irish Museum and Cultural Center. The first book that detailed the 
history of the Irish in Kansas City was Missouri Irish: Irish Settlers 
on the American Frontier, published in 1984. Missouri voters approved riverboat 
casino gaming on the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers by referendum with 
a 63% majority on November 3, 1992. The first casino facility in the state 
opened in September 1994 in North Kansas City by Harrah's Entertainment 
(now Caesar's Entertainment).[59] The combined revenues for four casinos 
exceeded $153 million per month in May 2008.[60] The metropolitan area 
is currently home to six casinos: Ameristar Kansas City, Argosy Kansas 
City, Harrah's North Kansas City, Isle of Capri Kansas City, the 7th Street 
Casino (which opened in Kansas City, Kansas, in 2008) and Hollywood Casino 
(which opened in February 2012 in Kansas City, Kansas). Kansas City is 
most famous for its steak and barbecue. During the heyday of the Kansas 
City Stockyards, the city was known for its Kansas City steaks or Kansas 
City strip steaks. The most famous of its steakhouses is the Golden Ox 
in the Kansas City Live Stock Exchange in the West Bottoms stockyards. 
These stockyards were second only to those of Chicago in size, but they 
never recovered from the Great Flood of 1951 and eventually closed. Founded 
in 1938, Jess & Jim's Steakhouse in the Martin City neighborhood was also 
well known. The Kansas City Strip cut of steak is similar to the New York 
Strip cut, and is sometimes referred to just as a strip steak. Along with 
Texas, Memphis, North and South Carolina, Kansas City is lauded as a "world 
capital of barbecue." More than 90 barbecue restaurants[61] operate in 
the metropolitan area. The American Royal each fall hosts what it claims 
is the world's biggest barbecue contest. Classic Kansas City-style barbecue 
was an inner-city phenomenon that evolved from the pit of Henry Perry from 
Memphis in the early 20th century and blossomed in the 18th and Vine neighborhood. 
Arthur Bryant's took over the Perry restaurant and added molasses to sweeten 
the recipe. In 1946 one of Perry's cooks opened Gates and Sons Bar-B-Q. 
The Gates recipe added even more molasses. Bryant's and Gates are the two 
definitive Kansas City barbecue restaurants. Both have only recently begun 
expanding outside of Kansas City. Fiorella's Jack Stack Barbecue is also 
well regarded. In 1977, Rich Davis, a psychiatrist, test-marketed his own 
concoction called K.C. Soul Style Barbecue Sauce. He renamed it KC Masterpiece, 
and in 1986, he sold the recipe to the Kingsford division of Clorox. Davis 
retained rights to operate restaurants using the name and sauce. In 2009, 
Kansas City appeared on Newsmax magazine's list of the "Top 25 Most Uniquely 
American Cities and Towns," a piece written by current CBS News travel 
editor Peter Greenberg. In determining his ranking, Greenberg cited the 
city's barbecue, among other factors.[62] Kansas City has several James 
Beard Award-winning/nominated chefs and restaurants. Winning chefs include 
Michael Smith, Celina Tio, Colby Garrelts, Debbie Gold, Jonathan Justus 
and Martin Heuser. A majority of the Beard Award-winning restaurants are 
located in the Crossroads district, downtown and in Westport. The proportion 
of Kansas City area residents with a known religious affiliation is 49.7%. 
The most common religious denominations in the area are:[65] In 1911, Elias 
Disney moved his family from Marceline to Kansas City. They lived in a 
new home with a garage built by Elias Disney, which became the location 
for Walt's very first animation, at 3028 Bellefontaine.[66] In 1919, Walt 
Disney returned from France where he had served as a Red Cross Ambulance 
Driver in World War I. Walt started the first animation company Laugh-O-Gram 
Studio in Kansas City. Later, the company went bankrupt, Walt Disney moved 
to Hollywood, and started The Walt Disney Company on October 16, 1923. 
Professional sports teams in Kansas City include the Kansas City Chiefs 
in the National Football League (NFL), the Kansas City Royals in Major 
League Baseball (MLB), Sporting Kansas City in Major League Soccer (MLS), 
and FC Kansas City in the National Women's Soccer League. The Chiefs – 
now a member of the NFL's American Football Conference (AFC) – started 
play in 1960 as the Dallas Texans and they moved to Kansas City in 1963. 
The team lost Super Bowl I to the Green Bay Packers. They came back in 
1969 to become the last ever AFL champions and win Super Bowl IV against 
NFL champions Minnesota Vikings with a score of 23-7. The Athletics baseball 
franchise played in the city from 1955, after moving from Philadelphia, 
to 1967, when the team relocated to Oakland, California. The city's current 
Major League Baseball franchise, the Royals, started play in 1969, and 
are the only major league sports franchise in Kansas City that has neither 
relocated nor changed its name. The Royals were the first American League 
expansion team to reach the playoffs, in 1976, to reach the World Series 
in 1980, and to win the World Series in 1985. The Royals returned to the 
World Series in 2014 and won in 2015. The Kansas City Wiz became a charter 
member of Major League Soccer in 1996. It was renamed the Wizards in 1997. 
In 2011, the team was renamed Sporting Kansas City and moved to its new 
stadium Children's Mercy Park in Kansas City, Kansas. Sporting's reserve 
team, Swope Park Rangers, plays at Swope Soccer Village in Swope Park. 
FC Kansas City began play in 2013 as an expansion team of the National 
Women's Soccer League; the team's home games are held at Swope Soccer Village 
as well. In college athletics, Kansas City has lately been the home of 
the Big 12 College Basketball Tournaments. The men's tournament has been 
played at Sprint Center since March 2008. The women's tournament is played 
at Municipal Auditorium. In addition to serving as the Chiefs' home stadium, 
Arrowhead Stadium serves as the venue for various intercollegiate football 
games. It has hosted the Big 12 Championship Game five times. On the last 
weekend in October, the MIAA Fall Classic rivalry game between Northwest 
Missouri State University and Pittsburg State University took place at 
the stadium. Kansas City is represented on the rugby pitch by the Kansas 
City Blues RFC, a former member of the Rugby Super League and a current 
Division 1 club. The team works closely with Sporting Kansas City and splits 
home-games between Sporting's training pitch and Rockhurst University's 
stadium. Kansas City has 132 miles (212 km) of boulevards and parkways, 
214 urban parks, 49 ornamental fountains, 152 ball diamonds, 10 community 
centers, 105 tennis courts, 5 golf courses, 5 museums and attractions, 
30 pools, and 47 park shelters.[67][68] These amenities are found across 
the city. Much of the system, designed by George E. Kessler, was constructed 
from 1893 to 1915. Cliff Drive, in Kessler Park on the North Bluffs, is 
a designated State Scenic Byway. It extends 4.27 miles (6.87 km) from The 
Paseo and Independence Avenue through Indian Mound on Gladstone Boulevard 
at Belmont Boulevard, with many historical points and architectural landmarks. 
Ward Parkway, on the west side of the city near State Line Road, is lined 
by many of the city's largest and most elaborate homes. The Paseo is a 
major north–south parkway that runs 19 miles (31 km) through the center 
of the city beginning at Cliff Drive. It was modeled on the Paseo de la 
Reforma, a fashionable Mexico City boulevard. Swope Park is one of the 
nation's largest city parks, comprising 1,805 acres (730 ha), more than 
twice the size of New York City's Central Park.[69] It features a zoo, 
a woodland nature and wildlife rescue center, 2 golf courses, 2 lakes, 
an amphitheatre, a day-camp, and numerous picnic grounds. Hodge Park, in 
the Northland, covers 1,029 acres (416 ha) (1.61 sq. mi.). This park includes 
the 80-acre (320,000 m2) Shoal Creek Living History Museum, a village of 
more than 20 historical buildings dating from 1807 to 1885. Riverfront 
Park, 955 acres (3.86 km2) on the banks of the Missouri River on the north 
edge of downtown, holds annual Independence Day celebrations and other 
festivals. A program went underway to replace many of the fast-growing 
sweetgum trees with hardwood varieties.[70] Kansas City is home to the 
largest municipal government in the state of Missouri. The city has a council/manager 
form of government. The role of city manager has diminished over the years. 
The non-elective office of city manager was created following excesses 
during the Pendergast days. The mayor is the head of the Kansas City City 
Council, which has 12 members (one member for each district, plus one at 
large member per district). The mayor is the presiding member. Kansas City 
holds city elections in every fourth odd numbered year. The last citywide 
election was held in May 2015. The officials took office in August 2015 
and will hold the position until 2019. Pendergast was the most prominent 
leader during the machine politics days. The most nationally prominent 
Democrat associated with the machine was Harry S Truman, who became a Senator, 
Vice President and then President of the United States from 1945 to 1953. 
Kansas City is the seat of the United States District Court for the Western 
District of Missouri, one of two federal district courts in Missouri. The 
United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri is located 
in St. Louis. It also is the seat of the Western District of the Missouri 
Court of Appeals, one of three districts of that court (the Eastern District 
is in St. Louis and the Southern District is in Springfield). The Mayor, 
City Council, and City Manager are listed below: Kansas City hosted the 
1900 Democratic National Convention, the 1928 Republican National Convention 
and the 1976 Republican National Convention. The urban core of Kansas City 
consistently votes Democratic in Presidential elections; however, on the 
state and local level Republicans often find success, especially in the 
Northland and other suburban areas of Kansas City. Kansas City is represented 
by three members of the United States House of Representatives: Some of 
the earliest organized violence in Kansas City erupted during the American 
Civil War. Shortly after the city's incorporation in 1850, so-called Bleeding 
Kansas erupted, affecting border ruffians and Jayhawkers. During the war, 
Union troops burned all occupied dwellings in Jackson County south of Brush 
Creek and east of Blue Creek to Independence in an attempt to halt raids 
into Kansas. After the war, the Kansas City Times turned outlaw Jesse James 
into a folk hero via its coverage. James was born in the Kansas City metro 
area at Kearney, Missouri, and notoriously robbed the Kansas City Fairgrounds 
at 12th Street and Campbell Avenue. In the early 20th century under Pendergast, 
Kansas City became the country's "most wide open town". While this would 
give rise to Kansas City Jazz, it also led to the rise of the Kansas City 
mob (initially under Johnny Lazia), as well as the arrival of organized 
crime. In the 1970s, the Kansas City mob was involved in a gang war over 
control of the River Quay entertainment district, in which three buildings 
were bombed and several gangsters were killed. Police investigations gained 
after boss Nick Civella was recorded discussing gambling bets on Super 
Bowl IV (where the Kansas City Chiefs defeated the Minnesota Vikings). 
The war and investigation led to the end of mob control of the Stardust 
Casino, which was the basis for the film Casino (although the production 
minimizes the Kansas City connections). As of November 2012, Kansas City 
ranked 18th on the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)'s annual survey 
of crime rates for cities with populations over 100,000.[71] Much of the 
city's violent crimes occur on the city's lower income East Side. Revitalizing 
the downtown and midtown areas has been fairly successful and now these 
areas have below average violent crime compared to major downtowns.[72] 
According to a 2007 analysis by The Kansas City Star and the University 
of Missouri-Kansas City, downtown experienced the largest drop in crime 
of any neighborhood in the city during the 2000s.[73] Many universities, 
colleges, and seminaries are located in the Kansas City metropolitan area, 
including: Kansas City is served by 16 school districts including 10 Public 
School Districts. There are also numerous private schools; Catholic schools 
in Kansas City are governed by the Diocese of Kansas City. The following 
Public School Districts serve Kansas City:[74] The Kansas City Star is 
the area's primary newspaper. William Rockhill Nelson and his partner, 
Samuel Morss, first published the evening paper on September 18, 1880. 
The Star competed heavily with the morning Kansas City Times before acquiring 
that publication in 1901. The "Times" name was discontinued in March 1990, 
when the morning paper was renamed the "Star."[75] Weekly newspapers include 
The Call[76] (which is focused toward Kansas City's African-American community), 
the Kansas City Business Journal, The Pitch, Ink,[77] and the bilingual 
publications Dos Mundos and KC Hispanic News. The city is served by two 
major faith-oriented newspapers: The Kansas City Metro Voice, serving the 
Christian community, and the Kansas City Jewish Chronicle, serving the 
Jewish community. It also the headquarters of the National Catholic Reporter, 
an independent Catholic newspaper. The Kansas City media market (ranked 
32nd by Arbitron[78] and 31st by Nielsen[79]) includes 10 television stations, 
30 FM and 21 AM radio stations. Kansas City broadcasting jobs have been 
a stepping stone for national television and radio personalities, notably 
Walter Cronkite and Mancow Muller. WDAF radio (610 AM, now at 106.5 FM; 
AM frequency now occupied by KCSP) signed on in 1927 as an affiliate of 
the NBC Red Network, under the ownership of The Star. In 1949, the Star 
signed on WDAF-TV as an affiliate of the NBC television network. The Star 
sold off the WDAF stations in 1957, following an antitrust investigation 
by the United States government (reportedly launched at Truman's behest, 
following a long-standing feud with the Star) over the newspaper's ownership 
of television and radio stations. KCMO radio (originally at 810 AM, now 
at 710 AM) signed on KCMO-TV (now KCTV) in 1953. The respective owners 
of WHB (then at 710 AM, now at 810 AM) and KMBC radio (980 AM, now KMBZ), 
Cook Paint and Varnish Company and the Midland Broadcasting Company, signed 
on WHB-TV/KMBC-TV as a time-share arrangement on VHF channel 9 in 1953; 
KMBC-TV took over channel 9 full-time in June 1954, after Cook Paint and 
Varnish purchased Midland Broadcasting's stations. The major broadcast 
television networks have affiliates in the Kansas City market (covering 
32 counties in northwestern Missouri, with the exception of counties in 
the far northwestern part of the state that are within the adjacent Saint 
Joseph market, and northeastern Kansas); including WDAF-TV 4 (Fox), KCTV 
5 (CBS), KMBC-TV 9 (ABC), KCPT 19 (PBS), KCWE 29 (The CW), KSHB-TV 41 (NBC) 
and KSMO-TV 62 (MyNetworkTV). Other television stations in the market include 
Saint Joseph-based KTAJ-TV 16 (TBN), Kansas City, Kansas-based TV25.tv 
(consisting of three locally owned stations throughout northeast Kansas, 
led by KCKS-LD 25, affiliated with several digital multicast networks), 
Lawrence, Kansas-based KMCI-TV 38 (independent), Spanish-language station 
KUKC-LP 48 (Univision), and KPXE-TV 50 (Ion Television). Kansas City has 
been a locale for Hollywood film and television productions. Between 1931 
and 1982 Kansas City was home to the Calvin Company, a large movie production 
company that specialized in promotional and sales short films and commercials 
for corporations, as well as educational films for schools and the government. 
Calvin was an important venue for Kansas City arts, training local filmmakers 
who went on to Hollywood careers, and also employing local actors, most 
of whom earned their main income in fields such as radio and television 
announcing. Kansas City native Robert Altman directed movies at the Calvin 
Company, which led him to his first feature film, The Delinquents, in Kansas 
City using many local players. The 1983 television movie The Day After 
was filmed in Kansas City and Lawrence, Kansas. The 1990s film Truman, 
starring Gary Sinise, was filmed in the city. Other films shot in or around 
Kansas City include Article 99, Mr. & Mrs. Bridge, Kansas City, Paper Moon, 
In Cold Blood, Ninth Street, and Sometimes They Come Back (in and around 
nearby Liberty, Missouri). More recently, a scene in the controversial 
film Brüno was filmed in downtown Kansas City's historic Hotel Phillips. 
Today, Kansas City is home to an active independent film community. The 
Independent Filmmaker's Coalition is an organization dedicated to expanding 
and improving independent filmmaking in Kansas City. The city launched 
the KC Film Office in October 2014 with the goal of better marketing the 
city for prospective television shows and movies to be filmed there. The 
City Council passed several film tax incentives in February 2016 to take 
effect in May 2016; the KC Film Office is currently coordinating its efforts 
with the State of Missouri to reinstate film incentives on a statewide 
level.[80] Originally, Kansas City was the launching point for travelers 
on the Santa Fe, Oregon and California trails. Later, with the construction 
of the Hannibal Bridge across the Missouri River, it became the junction 
of 11 trunk railroads. More rail tonnage passes through the city than any 
other U.S. city. Trans World Airlines (TWA) located its headquarters in 
the city, and had ambitious plans to turn the city into an air hub. Missouri 
and Kansas were the first states to start building interstates with Interstate 
70. Interstate 435, which encircles the entire city, is the second longest 
beltway in the nation. The Kansas City metro area has more limited access 
highway lane-miles per capita than any other large US metro area, over 
27% more than the second-place Dallas–Fort Worth metroplex, over 50% more 
than the average American metropolitan area. The Sierra Club blames the 
extensive freeway network for excessive sprawl and the decline of central 
Kansas City.[81] On the other hand, the relatively uncongested road network 
contributes significantly to Kansas City's position as one of America's 
largest logistics hubs.[82] Kansas City International Airport was built 
to TWA's specifications to make a world hub. Its original passenger-friendly 
design placed each of its gates 100 feet (30 m) from the street. Following 
the September 11, 2001, attacks, it required a costly overhaul to conform 
to the tighter security protocols. Charles B. Wheeler Downtown Airport 
was TWA's original headquarters and houses the Airline History Museum. 
It is still used for general aviation and airshows. Like most American 
cities, Kansas City's mass transit system was originally rail-based. From 
1870 to 1957, Kansas City's streetcar system was among the top in the country, 
with over 300 miles (480 km) of track at its peak. The rapid sprawl in 
the following years led this private system to be shut down. On December 
28, 1965, the Kansas City Area Transportation Authority (KCATA) was formed 
via a bi-state compact created by the Missouri and Kansas legislatures. 
The compact gave the KCATA responsibility for planning, construction, owning 
and operating passenger transportation systems and facilities within the 
seven-county area. In July 2005, the KCATA launched Kansas City's first 
bus rapid transit line, the Metro Area Express (MAX). MAX links the River 
Market, Downtown, Union Station, Crown Center and the Country Club Plaza. 
This corridor employs over 150,000 workers.[83] MAX operates and is marketed 
more like a rail system than a local bus line. A unique identity was created 
for MAX, including 13 modern diesel buses and easily identifiable "stations". 
MAX features (real-time GPS tracking of buses, available at every station), 
and stoplights automatically change in their favor if buses are behind 
schedule. In 2010, a second MAX line was added on Troost Avenue.[84] The 
city is currently planning another MAX line down Prospect Avenue.[85] On 
December 12, 2012, a ballot initiative to construct a $102 million, 2-mile 
modern streetcar line in downtown Kansas City was approved by local voters.[86] 
The streetcar route runs along Main Street from the River Market to Union 
Station; it debuted on May 6, 2016.[87] A new non-profit corporation made 
up of private sector stakeholders and city appointees – the Kansas City 
Streetcar Authority – operates and maintains the system. Unlike many similar 
systems around the U.S., no fare is to be charged initially.[88] The city 
plans to add multiple extensions to the starter line. In 2015, the KCATA, 
Unified Government Transit, Johnson County Transit, and IndeBus (all separate 
metro services) began merging into one coordinated transit service for 
the Kansas City region, called RideKC. The buses and other transit options 
will be branded as: RideKC Bus, RideKC MAX, RideKC Streetcar, and RideKC 
Bridj. RideKC Bridj is a micro transit service partnership between Ford 
Bridj and KCATA that began on March 7, 2016. Users download the Bridj app 
and use the service much like a taxi service. The merger and full coordination 
is expected to be complete by 2019.[89] A 2015 study by Walk Score ranked 
Kansas City as the 42nd most walkable out of the 50 largest U.S. cities.[90] 
As a whole, the city has a score of 34 out of 100. However, several of 
the more densely populated neighborhoods have much higher scores: Westport 
has a score of 91; the Downtown Loop has a score of 85; the Crossroads 
scored 85; and the Plaza scored 83.[91] Those ratings range from "A Walker's 
Paradise" to "Very Walkable." Kansas City has 14 sister cities:[92] Other 
