Kansas i/ˈkænzəs/ is a U.S. state located in the Midwestern United States.[9] 
Its capital is Topeka and its largest city Wichita. Kansas is named after 
the Kansa Native American tribe, which inhabited the area.[10] The tribe's 
name (natively kką:ze) is often said to mean "people of the wind" or "people 
of the south wind", although this was probably not the term's original 
meaning.[11][12] For thousands of years, what is now Kansas was home to 
numerous and diverse Native American tribes. Tribes in the eastern part 
of the state generally lived in villages along the river valleys. Tribes 
in the western part of the state were semi-nomadic and hunted large herds 
of bison. Kansas was first settled by European Americans in 1812, in what 
is the now Bonner Springs, Kansas,[13] but the pace of settlement accelerated 
in the 1850s, in the midst of political wars over the slavery issue. When 
it was officially opened to settlement by the U.S. government in 1854, 
abolitionist Free-Staters from New England and pro-slavery settlers from 
neighboring Missouri rushed to the territory to determine whether Kansas 
would become a free state or a slave state. Thus, the area was a hotbed 
of violence and chaos in its early days as these forces collided, and was 
known as Bleeding Kansas. The abolitionists eventually prevailed, and on 
January 29, 1861,[14][15] Kansas entered the Union as a free state. After 
the Civil War, the population of Kansas grew rapidly when waves of immigrants 
turned the prairie into farmland. Today, Kansas is one of the most productive 
agricultural states, producing high yields of wheat, corn, sorghum, and 
soybeans.[16] Kansas with its 213,000 km2 is the 15th most extensive and 
with its about 2.9 million people the 34th most populous of the 50 United 
States. Residents of Kansas are called "Kansans", officially. Mount Sunflower 
is Kansas's highest point at 1232 m. For millennia, the land that is currently 
Kansas was inhabited by Native Americans. The first European to set foot 
in present-day Kansas was Francisco Vázquez de Coronado, who explored the 
area in 1541. In 1803, most of modern Kansas was secured by the United 
States as part of the Louisiana Purchase. Southwest Kansas, however, was 
still a part of Spain, Mexico and the Republic of Texas until the conclusion 
of the Mexican–American War in 1848. From 1812 to 1821, Kansas was part 
of the Missouri Territory. The Santa Fe Trail traversed Kansas from 1821 
to 1880, transporting manufactured goods from Missouri and silver and furs 
from Santa Fe, New Mexico. Wagon ruts from the trail are still visible 
in the prairie today. In 1827, Fort Leavenworth became the first permanent 
settlement of white Americans in the future state. The Kansas–Nebraska 
Act became law on May 30, 1854, establishing the U.S. territories of Nebraska 
and Kansas, and opening the area to broader settlement by whites. Kansas 
Territory stretched all the way to the Continental Divide and included 
the sites of present-day Denver, Colorado Springs, and Pueblo. Missouri 
and Arkansas sent settlers into Kansas all along its eastern border. These 
settlers attempted to sway votes in favor of slavery. The secondary settlement 
of Americans in Kansas Territory were abolitionists from Massachusetts 
and other Free-Staters, who attempted to stop the spread of slavery from 
neighboring Missouri. Directly presaging the American Civil War, these 
forces collided, entering into skirmishes that earned the territory the 
name of Bleeding Kansas. Kansas was admitted to the United States as a 
free state on January 29, 1861, making it the 34th state to enter the Union. 
By that time the violence in Kansas had largely subsided, but during the 
Civil War, on August 21, 1863, William Quantrill led several hundred men 
on a raid into Lawrence, destroying much of the city and killing nearly 
200 people. He was roundly condemned by both the conventional Confederate 
military and the partisan rangers commissioned by the Missouri legislature. 
His application to that body for a commission was flatly rejected due to 
his pre-war criminal record.[17] After the Civil War, many veterans constructed 
homesteads in Kansas. Many African Americans also looked to Kansas as the 
land of "John Brown" and, led by freedmen like Benjamin "Pap" Singleton, 
began establishing black colonies in the state. Leaving southern states 
in the late 1870s because of increasing discrimination, they became known 
as Exodusters. At the same time, the Chisholm Trail was opened and the 
Wild West-era commenced in Kansas. Wild Bill Hickok was a deputy marshal 
at Fort Riley and a marshal at Hays and Abilene. Dodge City was another 
wild cowboy town, and both Bat Masterson and Wyatt Earp worked as lawmen 
in the town. In one year alone, 8 million head of cattle from Texas boarded 
trains in Dodge City bound for the East, earning Dodge the nickname "Queen 
of the Cowtowns." In response to demands of Methodists and other evangelical 
Protestants, in 1881 Kansas became the first U.S. state to adopt a constitutional 
amendment prohibiting all alcoholic beverages, which was only repealed 
in 1948. Kansas is bordered by Nebraska on the north; Missouri on the east; 
Oklahoma on the south; and Colorado on the west. The state is divided into 
105 counties with 628 cities, and is located equidistant from the Pacific 
and Atlantic oceans. The geographic center of the 48 contiguous states 
is located in Smith County near Lebanon. Until 1989, the Meades Ranch Triangulation 
Station in Osborne County was the geodetic center of North America: the 
central reference point for all maps of North America. The geographic center 
of Kansas is located in Barton County. Kansas is underlain by a sequence 
of horizontal to gently westward dipping sedimentary rocks. A sequence 
of Mississippian, Pennsylvanian and Permian rocks outcrop in the eastern 
and southern part of the state. The western half of the state has exposures 
of Cretaceous through Tertiary sediments, the latter derived from the erosion 
of the uplifted Rocky Mountains to the west. These are underlain by older 
Paleozoic and Mesozoic sediments which correlate well with the outcrops 
to the east. The northeastern corner of the state was subjected to glaciation 
in the Pleistocene and is covered by glacial drift and loess. The western 
two-thirds of the state, lying in the great central plain of the United 
States, has a generally flat or undulating surface, while the eastern third 
has many hills and forests. The land gradually rises from east to west; 
its altitude ranges from 684 ft (208 m) along the Verdigris River at Coffeyville 
in Montgomery County, to 4,039 ft (1,231 m) at Mount Sunflower, one half 
mile from the Colorado border, in Wallace County. It is a popular belief 
that Kansas is the flattest state in the nation, reinforced by a well known 
2003 tongue-in-cheek study[18] stating that Kansas was indeed "flatter 
than a pancake".[19] This has since been called into question, with most 
scientists ranking Kansas somewhere between 20th and 30th flattest state, 
depending on measurement method. Its average elevation is 2,000 feet, higher 
than that of 36 states.[20] Nearly 75 mi (121 km) of the state's northeastern 
boundary is defined by the Missouri River. The Kansas River (locally known 
as the Kaw), formed by the junction of the Smoky Hill and Republican rivers 
at appropriately-named Junction City, joins the Missouri River at Kansas 
City, after a course of 170 mi (270 km) across the northeastern part of 
the state. The Arkansas River (pronunciation varies), rising in Colorado, 
flows with a bending course for nearly 500 mi (800 km) across the western 
and southern parts of the state. With its tributaries, (the Little Arkansas, 
Ninnescah, Walnut, Cow Creek, Cimarron, Verdigris, and the Neosho), it 
forms the southern drainage system of the state. Kansas' other rivers are 
the Saline and Solomon Rivers, tributaries of the Smoky Hill River; the 
Big Blue, Delaware, and Wakarusa, which flow into the Kansas River; and 
the Marais des Cygnes, a tributary of the Missouri River. Spring River 
is located between Riverton, Kansas, and Baxter Springs, Kansas. Areas 
under the protection of the National Park Service include:[21] According 
to the Köppen climate classification the climate of Kansas can be characterized 
in terms of three types: it has humid continental, semi-arid steppe, and 
humid subtropical. The eastern two-thirds of the state (especially the 
northeastern portion) has a humid continental climate, with cool to cold 
winters and unbearably hot, often humid summers. Most of the precipitation 
falls in the summer and spring. The western third of the state – from roughly 
the U.S. Route 83 corridor westward – has a semiarid steppe climate. Summers 
are hot, often very hot, and generally less humid. Winters are highly changeable 
between warm and very cold. The western region receives an average of about 
16 inches (410 mm) of precipitation per year. Chinook winds in the winter 
can warm western Kansas all the way into the 80 °F (27 °C) range. The far 
south-central and southeastern reaches of the state, including Wichita, 
have a humid subtropical climate with hot, humid summers, milder winters 
and more precipitation than elsewhere in Kansas. Some features of all three 
climates can be found in most of the state, with droughts and changeable 
weather between dry and humid not uncommon, and both warm and cold spells 
in the winter. Temperatures in areas between US 83 and U.S. Route 81, as 
well as the southwestern portion of the state along and south of U.S. Route 
50, reach 100 °F (38 °C) or above on most days of June, July and August. 
High humidity added to the high temperatures sends the heat index into 
life-threatening territory, especially in Wichita, Hutchinson, Salina, 
Russell, Hays and Great Bend. Temperatures are often higher in Dodge City, 
Garden City and Liberal, but the heat index in those locations is usually 
lower than the actual air temperature. Although temperatures of 100 degrees 
or higher are not as common in areas east of US 81, higher humidity and 
the urban heat island effect lead most summer days to heat indices between 
107 °F (42 °C) and 114 °F (46 °C) in Topeka, Lawrence and the Kansas City 
metropolitan area. During the summer, nightly low temperatures in the northeastern 
part of the state, especially in the aforementioned large cities, struggle 
to fall below 80 °F (27 °C), and combined with humidity between 85 and 
95 percent, dangerous heat indices can be experienced at every hour of 
the day. Precipitation ranges from about 47 inches (1,200 mm) annually 
in the southeast corner of the state, to about 16 inches (410 mm) in the 
southwest. Snowfall ranges from around 5 inches (130 mm) in the fringes 
of the south, to 35 inches (890 mm) in the far northwest. Frost-free days 
range from more than 200 days in the south, to 130 days in the northwest. 
Thus, Kansas is the ninth or tenth sunniest state in the country, depending 
on the source. Western Kansas is as sunny as California and Arizona. Kansas 
is prone to severe weather, especially in the spring and early summer. 
Despite the frequent sunshine throughout much of the state, due to its 
location at a climatic boundary prone to intrusions of multiple air masses, 
the state is vulnerable to strong and severe thunderstorms. Some of these 
storms become supercell thunderstorms; these can spawn tornadoes, occasionally 
of EF3 strength or higher. Kansas averages over 50 tornadoes annually.[22] 
Severe thunderstorms sometimes drop very large hail over Kansas as well 
as bringing flash flooding and damaging straight line winds. According 
to NOAA, the all-time highest temperature recorded in Kansas is (121 °F 
or 49.4 °C) on July 24, 1936, near Alton in Osborne County, and the all-time 
low is −40 °F (−40 °C) on February 13, 1905, near Lebanon in Smith County. 
Alton and Lebanon are approximately 50 miles (80 km) apart. Kansas's record 
high of 121 °F (49.4 °C) ties with North Dakota for the fifth-highest record 
high in an American state, behind California (134 °F or 56.7 °C), Arizona 
(128 °F or 53.3 °C), Nevada (125 °F or 51.7 °C), and New Mexico (122 °F 
or 50 °C). The United States Census Bureau estimates that the population 
of Kansas was 2,911,641 on July 1, 2015, a 2.05% increase since the 2010 
United States Census[6] and an increase of 58,523, or 2.05%, since the 
year 2010.[6] This includes a natural increase since the last census of 
93,899 people (that is 246,484 births minus 152,585 deaths) and a decrease 
due to net migration of 20,742 people out of the state. Immigration from 
outside the United States resulted in a net increase of 44,847 people, 
and migration within the country produced a net loss of 65,589 people.[28] 
The population density of Kansas is 52.9 people per square mile.[29] The 
center of population of Kansas is located in Chase County, at 38°27′N 96°32′W﻿ 
/ ﻿38.450°N 96.533°W﻿ / 38.450; -96.533, approximately three miles north 
of the community of Strong City.[30] According to the 2010 Census, the 
racial makeup of the population was: Ethnically 10.5% of the total population 
was of Hispanic or Latino origin (they may be of any race).[32] As of 2004, 
the population included 149,800 foreign-born (5.5% of the state population). 
The ten largest reported ancestry groups, which account for over 85% of 
the population, in the state are: German (33.75%), Irish (14.4%), English 
(14.1%), American (7.5%), French (4.4%), Scottish (4.2%), Dutch (2.5%), 
Swedish (2.4%), Italian (1.8%), and Polish (1.5%).[36] German descendants 
are especially present in the northwest, while those of descendants of 
English and of white Americans from other states are especially present 
in the southeast. Mexicans are present in the southwest and make up nearly 
half the population in certain counties. Many African Americans in Kansas 
are descended from the Exodusters, newly freed blacks who fled the South 
for land in Kansas following the Civil War. As of 2011, 35.0% of Kansas' 
population younger than one year of age belonged to minority groups (i.e., 
did not have two parents of non-Hispanic white ancestry).[37] Spanish is 
the second-most-spoken language in Kansas, after English [1]. The 2014 
Pew Religious Landscape Survey showed the religious makeup of Kansas was 
as follows:[38] As of 2010, the Association of Religion Data Archives (ARDA) 
reported that the Catholic Church has the highest number of adherents in 
Kansas (at 426,611), followed by the United Methodist Church with 202,989 
members, and the Southern Baptist Convention, reporting 99,329 adherents.[39] 
Kansas's capital Topeka is sometimes cited as the home of Pentecostalism 
as it was the site of Charles Fox Parham's Bethel Bible College, where 
glossolalia was first claimed as the evidence of a spiritual experience 
referred to as the baptism of the Holy Spirit in 1901. It is also the home 
of Reverend Charles Sheldon, author of In His Steps, and was the site where 
the famous question "What would Jesus do?" originated in a sermon of Sheldon's 
at Central Congregational Church. Topeka is also home of the Westboro Baptist 
Church, a hate group according to the Southern Poverty Law Center.[40] 
The church has garnered worldwide media attention for picketing the funerals 
of U.S. servicemen and women for what church members claim as "necessary 
to combat the fight for equality for gays and lesbians." They have sometimes 
successfully raised lawsuits against the city of Topeka. Known as rural 
flight, the last few decades have been marked by a migratory pattern out 
of the countryside into cities. Out of all the cities in these Midwestern 
states, 89% have fewer than 3,000 people, and hundreds of those have fewer 
than 1,000. In Kansas alone, there are more than 6,000 ghost towns and 
dwindling communities,[41] according to one Kansas historian, Daniel C. 
Fitzgerald. At the same time, some of the communities in Johnson County 
(metropolitan Kansas City) are among the fastest-growing in the country. 
Kansas has 627 incorporated cities. By state statute, cities are divided 
into three classes as determined by the population obtained "by any census 
of enumeration." A city of the third class has a population of less than 
5,000, but cities reaching a population of more than 2,000 may be certified 
as a city of the second class. The second class is limited to cities with 
a population of less than 25,000, and upon reaching a population of more 
than 15,000, they may be certified as a city of the first class. First 
and second class cities are independent of any township and are not included 
within the township's territory. The northeastern portion of the state, 
extending from the eastern border to Junction City and from the Nebraska 
border to south of Johnson County is home to more than 1.5 million people 
in the Kansas City (Kansas portion), Manhattan, Lawrence, and Topeka metropolitan 
areas. Overland Park, a young city incorporated in 1960, has the largest 
population and the largest land area in the county. It is home to Johnson 
County Community College and the corporate campus of Sprint Nextel, the 
largest private employer in the metro area. In 2006, the city was ranked 
as the 6th best place to live in America; the neighboring city of Olathe 
was 13th.[43] Olathe is the county seat and home to Johnson County Executive 
Airport. The cities of Olathe, Shawnee, and Gardner have some of the state's 
fastest growing populations. The cities of Overland Park, Lenexa, Olathe, 
and Gardner are also notable because they lie along the former route of 
the Santa Fe Trail. Among cities with at least one thousand residents, 
Mission Hills has the highest median income in the state. Several institutions 
of higher education are located in Northeast Kansas including Baker University 
(the oldest university in the state, founded in 1858 and affiliated with 
the United Methodist Church) in Baldwin City, Benedictine College (sponsored 
by St. Benedict's Abbey and Mount St. Scholastica Monastery and formed 
from the merger of St. Benedict's College (1858) and Mount St. Scholastica 
College (1923)) in Atchison, MidAmerica Nazarene University in Olathe, 
Ottawa University in Ottawa and Overland Park, Kansas City Kansas Community 
College and KU Medical Center in Kansas City, and KU Edwards Campus in 
Overland Park. Less than an hour's drive to the west, Lawrence is home 
to the University of Kansas, the largest public university in the state, 
and Haskell Indian Nations University. To the north, Kansas City, with 
the second largest land area in the state, contains a number of diverse 
ethnic neighborhoods. Its attractions include the Kansas Speedway, Sporting 
Kansas City, Kansas City T-Bones, Schlitterbahn, and The Legends at Village 
West retail and entertainment center. Nearby, Kansas's first settlement 
Bonner Springs, Kansas [13] is home to several national and regional attractions 
including the Providence Medical Center Amphitheather, the National Agricultural 
Center and Hall of Fame, and the annual Kansas City Renaissance Festival. 
Further up the Missouri River, the city of Lansing is the home of the state's 
first maximum-security prison. Historic Leavenworth, founded in 1854, was 
the first incorporated city in Kansas. North of the city, Fort Leavenworth 
is the oldest active Army post west of the Mississippi River. The city 
of Atchison was an early commercial center in the state and is well known 
as the birthplace of Amelia Earhart. To the west, nearly a quarter million 
people reside in the Topeka metropolitan area. Topeka is the state capital 
and home to Washburn University and Washburn Institute of Technology. Built 
at a Kansas River crossing along the old Oregon Trail, this historic city 
has several nationally registered historic places. Further westward along 
Interstate 70 and the Kansas River is Junction City with its historic limestone 
and brick buildings and nearby Fort Riley, well known as the home to the 
U.S. Army's 1st Infantry Division, also known as the "Big Red One". A short 
distance away, the city of Manhattan is home to Kansas State University, 
the second largest public university in the state and the nation's oldest 
land-grant university, dating back to 1863. South of the campus, Aggieville 
dates back to 1889 and is the state's oldest shopping district of its kind. 
In south-central Kansas, the Wichita metropolitan area is home to over 
600,000 people.[44] Wichita is the largest city in the state in terms of 
both land area and population. 'The Air Capital' is a major manufacturing 
center for the aircraft industry and the home of Wichita State University. 
Before Wichita was 'The Air Capital' it was a Cowtown.[45] With a number 
of nationally registered historic places, museums, and other entertainment 
destinations, it has a desire to become a cultural mecca in the Midwest. 
Wichita's population growth has grown by double digits and the surrounding 
suburbs are among the fastest growing cities in the state. The population 
of Goddard has grown by more than 11% per year since 2000.[46] Other fast-growing 
cities include Andover, Maize, Park City, Derby, and Haysville. Wichita 
was one of the first cities to add the city commissioner and city manager 
in their form of government.[45] Wichita is also home of the nationally 
recognized Sedgwick County Zoo.[45] Up river (the Arkansas River) from 
Wichita is the city of Hutchinson. The city was built on one of the world's 
largest salt deposits, and it has the world's largest and longest wheat 
elevator. It is also the home of Kansas Cosmosphere and Space Center, Prairie 
Dunes Country Club and the Kansas State Fair. North of Wichita along Interstate 
135 is the city of Newton, the former western terminal of the Santa Fe 
Railroad and trailhead for the famed Chisholm Trail. To the southeast of 
Wichita are the cities of Winfield and Arkansas City with historic architecture 
and the Cherokee Strip Museum (in Ark City). The city of Udall was the 
site of the deadliest tornado in Kansas on May 25, 1955; it killed 80 people 
in and near the city.[47] To the southwest of Wichita is Freeport, the 
state's smallest incorporated city (population 5). Located midway between 
Kansas City, Topeka, and Wichita in the heart of the Bluestem Region of 
the Flint Hills, the city of Emporia has several nationally registered 
historic places and is the home of Emporia State University, well known 
for its Teachers College. It was also the home of newspaper man William 
Allen White. Southeast Kansas has a unique history with a number of nationally 
registered historic places in this coal-mining region. Located in Crawford 
County (dubbed the Fried Chicken Capital of Kansas), Pittsburg is the largest 
city in the region and the home of Pittsburg State University. The neighboring 
city of Frontenac in 1888 was the site of the worst mine disaster in the 
state in which an underground explosion killed 47 miners. "Big Brutus" 
is located a mile and a half outside the city of West Mineral. Along with 
the restored fort, historic Fort Scott has a national cemetery designated 
by President Lincoln in 1862. Salina is the largest city in central and 
north-central Kansas. South of Salina is the small city of Lindsborg with 
its numerous Dala horses. Much of the architecture and decor of this town 
has a distinctly Swedish style. To the east along Interstate 70, the historic 
city of Abilene was formerly a trailhead for the Chisholm Trail and was 
the boyhood home of President Dwight D. Eisenhower, and is the site of 
his Presidential Library and the tombs of the former President, First Lady 
and son who died in infancy. To the west is Lucas, the Grassroots Art Capital 
of Kansas. Westward along the Interstate, the city of Russell, traditionally 
the beginning of sparsely-populated northwest Kansas, was the base of former 
U.S. Senator Bob Dole and the boyhood home of U.S. Senator Arlen Specter. 
The city of Hays is home to Fort Hays State University and the Sternberg 
Museum of Natural History, and is the largest city in the northwest with 
a population of around 20,001. Two other landmarks are located in smaller 
towns in Ellis County: the "Cathedral of the Plains" is located 10 miles 
(16 km) east of Hays in Victoria, and the boyhood home of Walter Chrysler 
is 15 miles (24 km) west of Hays in Ellis. West of Hays, population drops 
dramatically, even in areas along I-70, and only two towns containing populations 
of more than 4,000: Colby and Goodland, which are located 35 miles apart 
along I-70. Dodge City, famously known for the cattle drive days of the 
late 19th century, was built along the old Santa Fe Trail route. The city 
of Liberal is located along the southern Santa Fe Trail route. The first 
wind farm in the state was built east of Montezuma. Garden City has the 
Lee Richardson Zoo. In 1992, a short-lived secessionist movement advocated 
the secession of several counties in southwest Kansas. The Bureau of Economic 
Analysis estimates that the total GDP in 2008 was $122.7 billion, making 
it the United States's 32nd highest state by GDP.[48] Per capita personal 
income in 2008 was $35,013. As of April 2015, the state's unemployment 
rate is 4.3%.[49] The agricultural outputs of the state are cattle, sheep, 
wheat, sorghum, soybeans, cotton, hogs, corn, and salt. Eastern Kansas 
is part of the Grain Belt, an area of major grain production in the central 
United States. The industrial outputs are transportation equipment, commercial 
and private aircraft, food processing, publishing, chemical products, machinery, 
apparel, petroleum and mining. Kansas ranks 8th in U.S. oil production. 
Production has experienced a steady, natural decline as it becomes increasingly 
difficult to extract oil over time. Since oil prices bottomed in 1999, 
oil production in Kansas has remained fairly constant, with an average 
monthly rate of about 2.8 million barrels (450,000 m3) in 2004. The recent 
higher prices have made carbon dioxide sequestration and other oil recovery 
techniques more economical. Kansas ranks 8th in U.S. natural gas production. 
Production has steadily declined since the mid-1990s with the gradual depletion 
of the Hugoton Natural Gas Field—the state's largest field which extends 
into Oklahoma and Texas. In 2004, slower declines in the Hugoton gas fields 
and increased coalbed methane production contributed to a smaller overall 
decline. Average monthly production was over 32 billion cubic feet (0.9 km3). 
The Kansas economy is also heavily influenced by the aerospace industry. 
Several large aircraft corporations have manufacturing facilities in Wichita 
and Kansas City, including Spirit AeroSystems, Cessna, Learjet, and Hawker 
Beechcraft (formerly Raytheon). Boeing ended a decades-long history of 
manufacturing in Kansas in 2012-13. Major company headquarters in Kansas 
include the Sprint Corporation (with world headquarters in Overland Park), 
Embarq (with national headquarters in Overland Park), YRC Worldwide (Overland 
Park), Garmin (Olathe), Payless Shoes (national headquarters and major 
distribution facilities in Topeka), and Koch Industries (with national 
headquarters in Wichita). Kansas has three income brackets for income tax 
calculation, ranging from 3.5% to 6.45%. The state sales tax in Kansas 
is 6.15%. Various cities and counties in Kansas have an additional local 
sales tax. Except during the 2001 recession (March–November 2001) when 
monthly sales tax collections were flat, collections have trended higher 
as the economy has grown and two rate increases have been enacted. Total 
sales tax collections for 2003 amounted to $1.63 billion, compared to $805.3 million 
in 1990. Revenue shortfalls resulting from lower than expected tax collections 
and slower growth in personal income following a 1998 permanent tax reduction 
has contributed to the substantial growth in the state's debt level as 
bonded debt increased from $1.16 billion in 1998 to $3.83 billion in 2006. 
Some increase in debt was expected as the state continues with its 10-year 
Comprehensive Transportation Program enacted in 1999. As of June 2004, 
Moody's Investors Service ranked the state 14th for net tax-supported debt 
per capita. As a percentage of personal income, it was at 3.8%—above the 
median value of 2.5% for all rated states and having risen from a value 
of less than 1% in 1992. The state has a statutory requirement to maintain 
cash reserves of at least 7.5% of expenses at the end of each fiscal year, 
however, lawmakers can vote to override the rule, and did so during the 
most recent budget agreement. Kansas is served by two Interstate highways 
with one beltway, two spur routes, and three bypasses, with over a total 
of 874 miles (1,407 km) in all. The first section of Interstate in the 
nation was opened on Interstate 70 (I-70) just west of Topeka on November 
14, 1956.[51] I-70 is a major east–west route connecting to Denver, Colorado 
and Kansas City, Missouri. Cities along this route (from west to east) 
include Colby, Hays, Salina, Junction City, Topeka, Lawrence, Bonner Springs, 
and Kansas City. I-35 is a major north–south route connecting to Oklahoma 
City, Oklahoma and Des Moines, Iowa. Cities along this route (from south 
to north) include Wichita, El Dorado, Emporia, Ottawa, and Kansas City 
(and suburbs). Spur routes serve as connections between the two major routes. 
I-135, a north–south route, connects I-35 at Wichita to I-70 at Salina. 
I-335, a southwest–northeast route, connects I-35 at Emporia to I-70 at 
Topeka. I-335 and portions of I-35 and I-70 make up the Kansas Turnpike. 
Bypasses include I-470 around Topeka, I-235 around Wichita, and I-670 in 
downtown Kansas City. I-435 is a beltway around the Kansas City metropolitan 
area while I-635 bypasses through Kansas City. U.S. Route 69 (US-69) travels 
south to north, from Oklahoma to Missouri. The highway passes through the 
eastern section of Kansas, traveling through Baxter Springs, Pittsburg, 
Frontenac, Fort Scott, Louisburg, and the Kansas City area. Kansas also 
has the third largest state highway system in the country after Texas and 
California. This is because of the high number of counties and county seats 
(105) and the intertwining of them all. In January 2004, the Kansas Department 
of Transportation (KDOT) announced the new Kansas 511 traveler information 
service.[52] By dialing 511, callers will get access to information about 
road conditions, construction, closures, detours and weather conditions 
for the state highway system. Weather and road condition information is 
updated every 15 minutes. The state's only major commercial (Class C) airport 
is Wichita Dwight D. Eisenhower National Airport, located along US-54 on 
the western edge of the city. Manhattan Regional Airport in Manhattan offers 
daily flights to Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport and Chicago's 
O'Hare International Airport, making it the second-largest commercial airport 
in the state.[53] Most air travelers in northeastern Kansas fly out of 
Kansas City International Airport, located in Platte County, Missouri. 
In the southeastern part of the state, people often use Tulsa International 
Airport in Tulsa, Oklahoma or Joplin Regional Airport in Joplin, Missouri. 
For those in the far western part of the state, Denver International Airport 
is a popular option. Connecting flights are also available from smaller 
Kansas airports in Dodge City, Garden City, Great Bend, Hays, Hutchinson, 
Salina or Topeka. The Southwest Chief Amtrak route also runs through the 
state on its route from Chicago to Los Angeles. Stops in Kansas include 
Lawrence and Dodge City. Executive branch: The executive branch consists 
of six elected officers. The Governor and Lt Governor are elected on the 
same slate, the Attorney General, Secretary of State, State Treasurer, 
and State Insurance Commissioner are elected separately. The six top executive 
offices of Kansas are all Republican. Governor Sam Brownback and Lieutenant 
Governor Jeff Colyer were elected in 2010 on the same ticket to a maximum 
of two consecutive four-year terms. Also elected in 2010 were the Attorney 
General Derek Schmidt of Independence; the Secretary of State Kris Kobach, 
of Kansas City; the State Treasurer Ron Estes, of Wichita; and the Insurance 
Commissioner Sandy Praeger, of Topeka. Legislative branch: The bicameral 
Kansas Legislature consists of the Kansas House of Representatives, with 
125 members serving two-year terms, and the Kansas Senate, with 40 members 
serving four-year terms. Currently, 32 of the 40 Senators are Republican 
and 92 of the 125 Representatives are Republican. Judicial branch: The 
Judicial branch of the state government is headed by the Kansas Supreme 
Court. The court has seven judges. A vacancy is filled by the Governor 
picking one of three nominees selected by a 9-member judicial selection 
board. The board consists of five Kansas lawyers elected by other Kansas 
lawyers and four members selected by the Governor. Over the past four decades, 
Kansas has remained one of the most socially conservative states in the 
nation. The 1990s brought the defeat of prominent Democrats, including 
Dan Glickman, and the Kansas State Board of Education's 1999 decision to 
eliminate evolution from the state teaching standards, a decision that 
was later reversed.[54] In 2005, voters accepted a constitutional amendment 
to ban same-sex marriage. The next year, the state passed a law setting 
a minimum age for marriage at 15 years.[55] Kansas has a history of many 
firsts in legislative initiatives—it was the first state to institute a 
system of workers' compensation (1910) and to regulate the securities industry 
(1911). Kansas also permitted women's suffrage in 1912, almost a decade 
before the federal constitution was amended to require it. Suffrage in 
all states would not be guaranteed until ratification of the 19th Amendment 
to the U.S. Constitution in 1920. The council–manager government model 
was adopted by many larger Kansas cities in the years following World War 
I while many American cities were being run by political machines or organized 
crime, notably the Pendergast Machine in neighboring Kansas City, Missouri. 
Kansas was also at the center of Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, 
a 1954 Supreme Court decision that banned racially segregated schools throughout 
the U.S. The state backed Republicans Wendell Willkie and Thomas E. Dewey 
in 1940 and 1944, respectively. Kansas also supported Dewey in 1948 despite 
the presence of incumbent president Harry S. Truman, who hailed from Independence, 
Missouri, approximately 15 miles east of the Kansas–Missouri state line. 
Since Roosevelt carried Kansas in 1932 and 1936, only one Democrat has 
won Kansas' electoral votes, Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964. In 2008, Governor 
Kathleen Sebelius vetoed permits for the construction of new coal-fired 
energy plants in Kansas, saying: "We know that greenhouse gases contribute 
to climate change. As an agricultural state, Kansas is particularly vulnerable. 
Therefore, reducing pollutants benefits our state not only in the short 
term – but also for generations of Kansans to come."[56] However, shortly 
after Mark Parkinson became governor in 2009 upon Sebelius's resignation 
to become Secretary of U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, Parkinson 
announced a compromise plan to allow construction of a coal-fired plant. 
In 2010, Sam Brownback was elected governor with 63 percent of the state 
vote. He was sworn in as governor in 2011, Kansas' first Republican governor 
in eight years. Brownback had established himself as a conservative member 
of the U.S. Senate in years prior, but since becoming governor has made 
several controversial decisions. In May 2011, much to the opposition of 
art leaders and enthusiasts in the state, Brownback eliminated the Kansas 
Arts Commission, making Kansas the first state without an arts agency.[57] 
In July 2011, Brownback announced plans to close the Lawrence branch of 
the Kansas Department of Social and Rehabilitation Services as a cost-saving 
measure. Hundreds rallied against the decision.[58] Lawrence City Commission 
later voted to provide the funding needed to keep the branch open.[59] 
The state's current delegation to the Congress of the United States includes 
Republican Senators Pat Roberts of Dodge City and Jerry Moran of Manhattan; 
and Republican Representatives Tim Huelskamp of Fowler (District 1), Lynn 
Jenkins of Topeka (District 2), Kevin Yoder of Overland Park (District 
3), and Mike Pompeo of Wichita (District 4). Historically, Kansas has been 
strongly Republican, dating from the Antebellum age when the Republican 
Party was created out of the movement opposing the extension of slavery 
into Kansas Territory. Kansas has not elected a Democrat to the U.S. Senate 
since the 1932 election, when Franklin D. Roosevelt won his first term 
as President in the wake of the Great Depression. This is the longest Senate 
losing streak for either party in a single state. Senator Sam Brownback 
was a candidate for the Republican party nomination for President in 2008. 
Brownback was not a candidate for re-election to a third full term in 2010, 
but he was elected Governor in that year's general election. Moran defeated 
Tiahrt for the Republican nomination for Brownback's seat in the August 
2010 primary, then won a landslide general election victory over Democrat 
Lisa Johnston. The only non-Republican presidential candidates Kansas has 
given its electoral vote to are Populist James Weaver and Democrats Woodrow 
Wilson, Franklin Roosevelt (twice), and Lyndon Johnson. In 2004, George 
W. Bush won the state's six electoral votes by an overwhelming margin of 
25 percentage points with 62% of the vote. The only two counties to support 
Democrat John Kerry in that election were Wyandotte, which contains Kansas 
City, and Douglas, home to the University of Kansas, located in Lawrence. 
The 2008 election brought similar results as John McCain won the state 
with 57% of the votes. Douglas, Wyandotte, and Crawford County were the 
only counties in support of President Barack Obama.[60] Abilene was the 
boyhood home to Republican president Dwight D. Eisenhower, and he maintained 
lifelong ties to family and friends there. Kansas was the adult home of 
two losing Republican candidates (Governor Alf Landon in 1936 and Senator 
Bob Dole in 1996). The New York Times reported in September 2014 that as 
the Democratic candidate for Senator has tried to drop out of the race, 
independent Greg Orman has attracted enough bipartisan support to seriously 
challenge the reelection bid of Republican Pat Roberts: The legal drinking 
age in Kansas is 21. In lieu of the state retail sales tax, a 10% Liquor 
Drink Tax is collected for liquor consumed on the licensed premises and 
an 8% Liquor Enforcement Tax is collected on retail purchases. Although 
the sale of cereal malt beverage (also known as 3.2 beer) was legalized 
in 1937, the first post-Prohibition legalization of alcoholic liquor did 
not occur until the state's constitution was amended in 1948. The following 
year the Legislature enacted the Liquor Control Act which created a system 
of regulating, licensing, and taxing, and the Division of Alcoholic Beverage 
Control (ABC) was created to enforce the act. The power to regulate cereal 
malt beverage remains with the cities and counties. Liquor-by-the-drink 
did not become legal until passage of an amendment to the state's constitution 
in 1986 and additional legislation the following year. As of November 2006, 
Kansas still has 29 dry counties and only 17 counties have passed liquor-by-the-drink 
with no food sales requirement.[62] Today there are more than 2600 liquor 
and 4000 cereal malt beverage licensees in the state.[63] Education in 
Kansas is governed at the primary and secondary school level by the Kansas 
State Board of Education. The state's public colleges and universities 
are supervised by the Kansas Board of Regents. Twice since 1999 the Board 
of Education has approved changes in the state science curriculum standards 
that encouraged the teaching of intelligent design. Both times, the standards 
were reversed after changes in the composition of the board in the next 
election. The rock band Kansas was formed in the state capital of Topeka, 
the hometown of several of the band's members. Joe Walsh, guitarist for 
the famous rock band, The Eagles, was born in Wichita. Singers from Kansas 
include Leavenworth native Melissa Etheridge, Sharon native Martina McBride, 
Chanute native Jennifer Knapp (whose first album was titled Kansas), Kansas 
City native Janelle Monáe, and Liberal native Jerrod Niemann. The state's 
most famous appearance in literature was as the home of Dorothy Gale, the 
main character in the novel The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (1900). Laura Ingalls 
Wilder's Little House on the Prairie, published in 1935, is another well-known 
tale about Kansas. Kansas was also the setting of the 1965 best-seller 
In Cold Blood, described by its author Truman Capote as a "nonfiction novel." 
Mixing fact and fiction, the book chronicles the events and aftermath of 
the 1959 murder of a wealthy farmer and his family who lived in the small 
West Kansas town of Holcomb in Finney County. The winner of the 2011 Newbery 
Medal for excellence in children's literature, Moon Over Manifest, tells 
the story of a young and adventurous girl named Abilene who is sent to 
the fictional town of Manifest, Kansas, by her father in the summer of 
1936. It was written by Kansan Clare Vanderpool. Lawrence, Kansas, is the 
setting for a number of science fiction writer James Gunn's novels. Sporting 
Kansas City, who have played their home games at Village West in Kansas 
City, Kansas, since 2008, are the first top-tier professional sports league 
and first Major League Soccer team to be located within Kansas. In 2011 
the team moved to their new home, a $165m soccer specific stadium now known 
as Children's Mercy Park. Historically, many Kansans have supported the 
major league sports teams of Kansas City, Missouri, including the Kansas 
City Royals (MLB), the Kansas City Chiefs (NFL) and the Kansas City Brigade 
(AFL) – in part because the home stadiums for these teams are just miles 
from the Kansas border. The Chiefs and the Royals play at the Truman Sports 
Complex, located about 10 miles (16 km) from the Kansas–Missouri state 
line. The Kansas City Brigade play in the newly opened Sprint Center, which 
is even closer to the state line. FC Kansas City, a charter member of the 
National Women's Soccer League, played the 2013 season, the first for both 
the team and the league, on the Kansas side of the metropolitan area, but 
has played on the Missouri side ever since. From 1973 to 1997 the flagship 
radio station for the Royals was WIBW in Topeka.[66] Some Kansans, mostly 
from the westernmost parts of the state, support the professional sports 
teams of Denver, particularly the Denver Broncos of the NFL. Two major 
auto racing facilities are located in Kansas. The Kansas Speedway located 
in Kansas City hosts races of the NASCAR, IRL, and ARCA circuits. Also, 
the National Hot Rod Association (NHRA) holds drag racing events at Heartland 
Park Topeka. The Sports Car Club of America has its national headquarters 
in Topeka. The history of professional sports in Kansas probably dates 
from the establishment of the minor league baseball Topeka Capitals and 
Leavenworth Soldiers in 1886 in the Western League.[67][68] The African-American 
Bud Fowler played on the Topeka team that season, one year before the "color 
line" descended in professional baseball.[68] In 1887, the Western League 
was dominated by a reorganized Topeka team called the Golden Giants – a 
high-priced collection of major leaguer players, including Bug Holliday, 
Jim Conway, Dan Stearns, Perry Werden and Jimmy Macullar, which won the 
league by 15½ games.[68] On April 10, 1887, the Golden Giants also won 
an exhibition game from the defending World Series champions, the St. Louis 
Browns (the present-day Cardinals), by a score of 12–9. However, Topeka 
was unable to support the team, and it disbanded after one year. The first 
night game in the history of professional baseball was played in Independence 
on April 28, 1930 when the Muscogee (Oklahoma) Indians beat the Independence 
Producers 13 to 3 in a minor league game sanctioned by the Western League 
of the Western Baseball Association with 1,500 fans attending the game. 
The permanent lighting system was first used for an exhibition game on 
April 17, 1930 between the Independence Producers and House of David semi-professional 
baseball team of Benton Harbor, Michigan with the Independence team winning 
with a score of 9 to 1 before a crowd of 1,700 spectators.[69] The governing 
body for intercollegiate sports in the United States, the National Collegiate 
Athletic Association (NCAA), was headquartered in Johnson County, Kansas, 
from 1973 until moving to Indianapolis in 1999. While there are no franchises 
of the four major professional sports within the state, many Kansans are 
fans of the state's major college sports teams, especially the Jayhawks 
of the University of Kansas, commonly referred to as "KU", and the Wildcats 
of Kansas State University, known as "KSU" or "K-State". Both teams are 
rivals in the Big 12 Conference. Both KU and K-State have tradition-rich 
programs in men's basketball. The Jayhawks are a perennial national power, 
ranking second in all-time victories among NCAA programs, behind Kentucky. 
The Jayhawks have won five national titles, including NCAA tournament championships 
in 1952, 1988, and 2008. They also were retroactively awarded national 
championships by the Helms Foundation for 1922 and 1923. K-State also had 
a long stretch of success on the hardwood, lasting from the 1940s to the 
1980s, making four Final Fours during that stretch. In 1988, KU and K-State 
met in the Elite Eight, KU taking the game 71-58. After a 12-year absence, 
the Wildcats returned to the NCAA tournament in 2008 and made it into the 
Elite Eight in 2010. KU is fifth all-time with 14 Final Four appearances, 
while K-State's four appearances are tied for 17th. However, success on 
the gridiron has been less frequent for both KSU and KU. However, there 
have been recent breakthroughs for both schools football teams. KU won 
the Orange Bowl for the first time in three tries in 2008, capping a 12–1 
season, the best in school history. And when Bill Snyder arrived to coach 
at KSU in 1989, he turned the Wildcats from one of the worst college football 
programs in the nation into a national force for most of the 1990s and 
early 2000s. The team won the Fiesta Bowl in 1997, achieved an undefeated 
(11–0) regular season and No. 1 ranking in 1998, and took the Big 12 Conference 
championship in 2003. After three seasons in which K-State football languished, 
Snyder came out of retirement in 2009 and guided them to the top of the 
college football ranks again, finishing second in the Big XII in 2011 and 
earning a berth in the Cotton Bowl, and winning the Big XII again in 2012. 
Wichita State University, which also fields teams (called the Shockers) 
in Division I of the NCAA, is best known for its baseball and basketball 
programs, winning the College World Series in 1989, and appearing at the 
Final Four in 1965 and 2013. Notable success has also been achieved by 
the state's smaller schools in football. Pittsburg State University, a 
NCAA Division II participant, has claimed four national titles in football, 
two in the NAIA and most recently the 2011 NCAA Division II national title. 
Pittsburg State became the winningest NCAA Division II football program 
in 1995. PSU passed Hillsdale College at the top of the all-time victories 
list in the 1995 season on its march to the national runner-up finish. 
The Gorillas, in 96 seasons of intercollegiate competition, have accumulated 
579 victories – posting a 579–301–48 overall mark. Washburn University, 
in Topeka, won the NAIA Men's Basketball Championship in 1987. The Fort 
Hays State University men won the 1996 NCAA Division II title with a 34–0 
record, and the Washburn women won the 2005 NCAA Division II crown. St. 
Benedict's College (now Benedictine College), in Atchison, won the 1954 
and 1967 Men's NAIA Basketball Championships. The Kansas Collegiate Athletic 
Conference has its roots as one of the oldest college sport conferences 
in existence and participates in the NAIA and all ten member schools are 
in the state of Kansas. Other smaller school conference that have some 
members in Kansas are the Heartland Conference, the Midlands Collegiate 
Athletic Conference, the Midwest Christian College Conference, and the 
Heart of America Athletic Conference. Many junior colleges also have active 
athletic programs. The Kansas State High School Activities Association 
(KSHSAA) is the organization which oversees interscholastic competition 
in the state of Kansas at the high school level. It oversees both athletic 
and non-athletic competition, and sponsors championships in several sports 
and activities. Maps Coordinates: 38°30′N 98°00′W﻿ / ﻿38.5°N 98°W﻿ / 38.5; 
