Kauffman Stadium (/ˈkɔːfmən/), often called "The K" and formerly known 
as Royals Stadium, is a baseball park located in Kansas City, Missouri, 
and home to the Kansas City Royals of Major League Baseball (MLB). Together 
with Arrowhead Stadium, home of the National Football League's Kansas City 
Chiefs, it is part of the Truman Sports Complex. Since July 2, 1993, the 
venue has been known as Kauffman Stadium in honor of the Royals' founding 
owner, Ewing Kauffman. Kauffman Stadium was built specifically for baseball 
during an era where building multisport "cookie-cutter" stadiums were commonplace. 
It is often held up along with Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles as one of 
the best examples of modernist stadium design. It is currently the only 
ballpark in the American League to be named after a person, Ewing Kauffman. 
It is also one of ten stadiums in Major League Baseball that does not have 
a corporate-sponsored name; the others are Marlins Park, Turner Field, 
Yankee Stadium, Fenway Park, Wrigley Field, Oriole Park at Camden Yards, 
Dodger Stadium, Angel Stadium of Anaheim, and Nationals Park (Kauffman, 
Wrigley, and Turner are named for the individuals and not the corporations 
they owned). The stadium is 43 years old in 2015, making it the sixth-oldest 
stadium in Major League Baseball. Kauffman Stadium recently underwent a 
$250 million renovation, which began after the 2007 season and was completed 
in July 2009.[7] The 1973 and the 2012 MLB All-Star Games were held at 
Kauffman Stadium. In 1967, voters in Jackson County, Missouri approved 
the bonds for Truman Sports Complex, which featured a football stadium 
for the Kansas City Chiefs and a baseball stadium for the Kansas City Athletics, 
whose owner, Charles O. Finley, had just signed a new lease to remain in 
Kansas City. This was a very unusual proposal; conventional wisdom at the 
time held that separate football and baseball stadiums were not commercially 
viable. Before the 1968 season, however, Finley moved the A's to Oakland, 
California, and their brand-new multi-purpose stadium.[8] After the move, 
Missouri Senator Stuart Symington threatened to press for the revocation 
of baseball's anti-trust exemption if they did not give Kansas City a new 
team. Baseball responded by hastily granting expansion franchises to four 
cities, including a Kansas City team owned by local pharmaceutical magnate 
Ewing Kauffman. The new teams were due to start play in 1971. However, 
Symington was not about to have Kansas City wait three years for the return 
of baseball, and forced MLB to move up the start date to 1969. Jackson 
County continued its plans to build a new ballpark. After playing four 
seasons in Kansas City Municipal Stadium, on April 10, 1973, the Royals 
inaugurated Royals Stadium with a win over the Texas Rangers.[8] On May 
15, 1973, the stadium, barely a month into its existence, saw Nolan Ryan, 
pitching for the California Angels, throw the first of his seven no-hitters, 
blanking the Royals 3–0.[8] On July 24, 1973, Royals Stadium hosted its 
first of two Major League Baseball All-Star Games.[8] On October 9, 1976, 
the Royals competed in their first post-season game in franchise history, 
losing 4–1 to the New York Yankees at Royals Stadium in the ALCS. The Royals 
came back to win the next game on October 10, 6–3, for their first post-season 
win in Royals Stadium.[8] On October 17, 1980, the first World Series game 
held in Kansas City featured the hometown Royals against the Philadelphia 
Phillies. In his first at-bat, George Brett hit a home run down the right 
field line. The Royals would go on to record their first-ever World Series 
win, 4–3 in 10 innings. However, the Royals would lose the World Series 
that year in six games.[8] On October 11, 1985, in Game 3 of the ALCS, 
George Brett hit two home runs off Toronto Blue Jays pitcher Doyle Alexander, 
made a back-handed stop at third base to throw out a runner at home, and 
recorded the final out to give the Royals a much-needed 6–5 win. The Royals 
went on to win the American League pennant in seven games.[8] On October 
27 of that same year, the Royals clinched their first World Series title 
in franchise history, winning Game 7 in Royals Stadium. Led by the pitching 
of Bret Saberhagen, Darryl Motley's two-run home run, and George Brett's 
four hits, the Royals beat the St. Louis Cardinals 11–0. The Royals were 
the first team in the history of the World Series to lose the first two 
games of the series at home and come back to win.[8] In 2012, the stadium 
hosted its second All-Star Game, which the National League won 8-0.[9] 
The stadium hosted the Royals' first playoff game in nearly 29 years when 
the city's former team, the Athletics, came to town for the 2014 American 
League Wild Card Game. Despite trailing 7-3 in the eighth inning, Kansas 
City rallied to win the game, 9-8, and advance to the 2014 ALDS.[10] They 
hosted Games 1, 2, 6, and 7 against the San Francisco Giants in the World 
Series but lost the series, 4-3. In 2015, the stadium hosted playoff games 
as the Royals once again made the playoffs, this time as the highest ranked 
American League team. Games 1, 2, and 5 of the ALDS against the Houston 
Astros were played at the stadium, with the Royals winning Games 2 and 
5, as well as Games 1, 2, and 6 of the ALCS against the Toronto Blue Jays, 
with the Royals winning all three games. The stadium hosted games 1 and 
2 of the 2015 World Series against the New York Mets as a result of the 
American League winning the 2015 MLB All-Star Game 6-3. The Royals won 
game 1 (5-4 in 14 innings) and game 2 (7-1), as well as the entire series 
(4-1). Kauffman Stadium was the last baseball-only park built in the majors 
(not counting temporary facilities) from 1966 to 1991. It was one of the 
few baseball-only facilities built in the majors during the heyday of the 
cookie-cutter stadium era, and is one of two such facilities (Dodger Stadium 
is the other) that are still active and were never converted for use as 
multi-purpose stadiums.1 Although it is a baseball-only facility, its design 
took several stylistic cues from the multi-purpose stadiums of the day, 
plus the Googie style that was more prevalent in the decades prior. The 
main stadium itself is primarily concrete, with a smooth, uncovered concrete 
facade. The stands wrap around the infield and end at the foul poles, with 
smaller bleacher sections (or "outfield plazas", as the Royals call them) 
in the outfield. In their book, The Ultimate Baseball Road Trip, Josh Pahigian 
and Kevin O'Connell wrote that it is essentially one-third of a cookie-cutter 
stadium, containing only the seats in a cookie-cutter stadium that provide 
the best views for baseball.[11] The upper deck is quite steep, though 
not as high as other parks built during this time. Many minor-league stadiums 
built in the 1980s and early 1990s, as well as U.S. Cellular Field in Chicago, 
employ a similar design. By 2000, all of the seats were replaced by blue 
seats, the lower section seating also getting cupholders. The park's best-known 
feature is the fountain and waterfall display (known as the Water Spectacular) 
behind the right-field fence. At 322 feet (98 m), it is the largest privately 
funded fountain in the world.[11] The fountains are on display before and 
after the game and in-between innings, while the waterfalls are constantly 
flowing. When the stadium was originally built, Kansas City was the westernmost 
major league city other than those along the Pacific Coast (1,600 mi. [2,600 km] 
away), which was a major reason why the Royals initially decided to use 
a faster-draining AstroTurf surface.[12] The Royals' home territory included 
a large swath of the Great Plains and Rockies, and Kauffman didn't want 
fans who drove many hundreds of miles to go home without seeing the game 
completed. The Truman Sports Complex's legendary groundskeeper, George 
Toma, best known as the head groundskeeper for every Super Bowl, thus had 
the job of maintaining two carpets for most of his career. He also maintained 
the surface at Arrowhead Stadium, which had AstroTurf from 1972 through 
1993. However, Toma has said that artificial turf requires a good deal 
of maintenance as well; his crews were able to keep Royals Stadium's original 
carpet for two decades, somewhat longer than the typical lifetime for a 
turf surface.[13] This is also due to the fact that Kauffman Stadium has 
never hosted a football game, and has no movable seating, thus avoiding 
the wear and tear typical of cookie-cutter stadiums. The arrival of the 
Colorado Rockies, however, removed virtually all of the western portion 
of the Royals' once-vast home territory. Partly due to this, the stadium's 
turf was replaced by grass for the 1995 season. When the Royals ripped 
out the turf, 4 inch (10 cm) perforated tiles were installed at 12.5-foot 
(3.8 m) centers across the entire field. As a result, the current grass 
field drains very well. Many newer facilities (and some older facilities 
through retrofitting) have similar drainage systems to minimize downtime 
after rain delays. In 2014, the Royals started placing a "W" on the Hall 
of Fame wall for every home win, similar to the Chicago Cubs hoisting a 
white flag with a blue "W" at Wrigley Field for every Cub home win. On 
April 4, 2006, Jackson County, Missouri voters approved a 0.375% sales 
tax increase to fund plans to renovate the Truman Sports Complex. As part 
of this measure, every Jackson County residential address was to receive 
vouchers good for 50% off two tickets at Royals games on certain nights. 
The construction began with a ceremonial groundbreaking inside Kauffman 
Stadium on October 3, 2007, with completion of Kauffman Stadium in time 
for Opening Day in 2009, and full renovation of the complex (including 
nearby Arrowhead Stadium) by 2010, depending upon cost overruns. The team 
committed to a lease that will keep them in Kansas City until 2030, an 
extension of their current lease expiration of 2015. The improvements to 
Kauffman Stadium included the following: The new high-definition scoreboard 
was one of the first features to be installed.[14] It replaced both the 
old matrix board in the shape of the Royals logo that had been in the park 
since its opening, along with the video board that had been installed in 
1989. The new scoreboard was ready for Opening Day 2008. It is 84 ft. wide 
and 105 ft. tall, and was, at the time it entered service, the largest 
high-definition LED display in the world.[15] The Kaufmann Stadium screen 
was eventually surpassed by the new scoreboard at Seattle's Safeco Field 
in 2013.[16] The display was assembled in 55 separate segments, including 
an active bottom taper to resemble the shield in the Royals logo. The video 
scoreboard alone cost $8.3 million, and the control room that operates 
it is staffed with 17 people on game days.[17] It was adorned with a crown 
during the 2008 offseason. Strobe lights atop the scoreboard flash after 
every Royals home run. A second proposal on the April 2006 ballot would 
have installed a rolling roof at the Truman Sports Complex. The roof could 
have been moved to cover either Kauffman Stadium or Arrowhead Stadium when 
needed. The measure failed at the polls. Beginning with the 2007 season, 
the Royals had a red seat placed in the stadium amongst the all-blue seats 
behind home plate to honor Buck O'Neil. Every game, there will be a person 
who embodies the spirit of Buck O'Neil selected from community nominees 
to sit in that seat, formerly occupied by O'Neil. The seat is located behind 
home plate in what was Section 101, Row C, Seat 1, until 2008. Due to the 
stadium renovations and accompanying section renumbering in 2009, the seat 
number is now Section 127, Row C, Seat 9, and the seat bottom is now padded. 
O'Neil played for the Kansas City Monarchs of the Negro League from 1937 
to 1955. 4 Statues lay out in the outfield concourse behind the fountains. 
Three of the statues are located in right field (George Brett, Dick Howser 
and Frank White Jr.) and in left is the former Royals owner Ewing Kauffman 
and his wife Muriel. ^Note 1 : Candlestick Park (1960), Anaheim Stadium 
(1966), and Jarry Park Stadium (1969) were all originally built as baseball-only 
facilities. Candlestick Park has closed and has since been demolished, 
and Jarry Park Stadium was renovated into Stade Uniprix, a tennis-specific 
stadium with only a small portion of the original stadium present. Both 
Candlestick Park and Anaheim Stadium were converted to multi-purpose facilities. 
Anaheim Stadium, now known as Angel Stadium of Anaheim, was re-converted 
