The KBO League (Hangul: KBO 리그),[1][2] originally called the Korea Baseball 
Championship (Hangul: 한국야구선수권대회; Romanization: Hanguk Yagu Seonsukkwon 
Daehoe) is the highest level league of baseball in South Korea. The KBO 
League was originally founded with six franchises in 1982 and currently 
has ten franchises throughout the nation.[3] Nine of the ten franchises 
are named after the companies or business conglomerates which own them, 
while one sold their naming rights (Nexen Heroes).[4] The first game was 
played on March 27, 1982 between Samsung Lions and the MBC Chungyong (now 
the LG Twins) in Dongdaemun Baseball Stadium, Seoul. Then-president Chun 
Doo-hwan threw the first pitch. The inaugural franchises were: In 1985, 
the Sammi Superstars became known as the Cheongbo Pintos. The next year, 
1986, saw some major changes, with the OB Bears moving from Daejeon to 
share the Seoul's Jamsil Baseball Stadium with MBC Chungyong in Seoul. 
A new franchise, the Binggrae Eagles, joined to replace vacancy of Daejeon 
by OB's moving and expanding the league to seven franchises. 1988 saw the 
Cheongbo Pintos change ownership again, becoming the Pacific Dolphins. 
In 1990, MBC Chungyong became the LG Twins and an eighth franchise was 
added, the Ssangbangwool Raiders who represented the Jeollabuk-do region. 
There was little change in the 90's except for a few major sponsors: 1993 
saw the Binggrae Eagles become the Hanwha Eagles, in 1995 the Pacific Dolphins 
became the Hyundai Unicorns and the OB Bears in 1999 became the Doosan 
Bears. Bigger changes were affected in 2000 when the Hyundai Unicorns moved 
from Incheon to Suwon, and a new franchise, the SK Wyverns took their place 
in Incheon. The Ssangbangwool Raiders became defunct. In 2001, the Haitai 
Tigers became the Kia Tigers. In 2008, the Hyundai Unicorns franchise was 
disbanded, re-founded the Woori Heroes and moved to Mok-dong in Seoul, 
after a disappointing season in 2007 both on and off the field. Despite 
winning championships in 1998, 2000, 2003 and 2004, fans never really took 
to the franchise after their move from Incheon. Also, while the franchises 
in Busan, Daegu, Daejeon, and Gwangju did not have to compete with other 
franchises for fans, the Suwon-based Unicorns struggled to compete with 
the nearby Seoul franchises. Founding member the Kia Tigers (formerly the 
Haitai Tigers) had won 10 of the 34 national championships. Many of the 
players who excel in the Korean league go on to play for franchises in 
Nippon Professional Baseball in Japan. Such players in the NPB include 
Lee Seung-yuop for the Yomiuri Giants, Kim Tae-kyun for the Chiba Lotte 
Marines, Lim Chang-yong for the Tokyo Yakult Swallows, and Tyrone Woods 
also for the Chunichi Dragons (former Doosan Bears player). Starting with 
the 2015 season, each team plays 144 games in the regular season, increased 
from 128 due to an expansion team. Each team plays every other 16 times.[5] 
On mid-July every year, the best players participate in the KBO All-Star 
Game. The franchises participating are divided into two sets of teams: 
Dream All-Stars (Doosan, KT, Lotte, Samsung, and SK) and Nanum All-Stars 
(Kia, Hanwha, LG, NC and Nexen). Unlike in the MLB, the KBO All-star game 
does not determine home-field advantage in the KBO Korean Series. The KBO 
League's season culminates in its championship series, known as the KBO 
Korean Series. Currently, the top four teams qualify for the post-season 
based on win/loss records. The team with the best record gains a direct 
entry into the KBO Korean Series, while the other three teams compete for 
the remaining place in a step-ladder playoff system: Any playoff games 
ending in an official tie are replayed, thereby raising the possibility 
of a close series containing more than the originally scheduled 5 or 7 
games. Traditionally, Korea Professional Baseball games have a maximum 
number of extra innings before a game is declared an official tie. The 
KBO abolished this limit for the 2008 season, however it was reinstated 
in 2009, with a 12-innings limit imposed during both regular season and 
playoff games.[6] However, no extra innings are played in the first game 
of a double-header, with games limited to 9 innings.[7] Starting from the 
2009 season, tied games count as a loss for both teams for percentage calculation 
purposes; from 2002 until 2007 they were considered a "no game"; prior 
to this they counted as half a win and half a loss. The league places a 
cap on the number of foreign players allowed on club rosters. The foreign 
player limit is currently set at three, increased from 2 players from 2014. 
