KDKA-FM (93.7 FM), branded as "SportsRadio 93.7 The Fan", is a radio station 
in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Owned by CBS Radio, the station operates at 
93.7 MHz with an ERP of 41 kW. Its studios are located at Foster Plaza 
in Green Tree west of downtown Pittsburgh, and the transmitter is located 
on Mount Washington (next to their former studios) in Pittsburgh's South 
Shore area. The station programs a sports radio format, and serves as the 
flagship station for the Pittsburgh Pirates of Major League Baseball (MLB). 
It simulcasts its AM namesake, KDKA on its HD2 subchannel, while HD3 is 
the national broadcast feed of CBS Sports Radio. The 93.7 frequency in 
Pittsburgh began its life as WKJF-FM in the 1950s, an independently owned 
FM station. For a brief time, there was a co-owned UHF TV station, WKJF-TV 
(channel 53; now occupied by WPGH-TV), which operated in 1953-54. During 
its early incarnations as WKJF, WKOI, and WJOI, the station programmed 
a beautiful music format. During the 1960s, Bill Hillgrove, who would later 
become a Pittsburgh sportscaster, was a staff member and hosted a Saturday 
night big band show titled "Stereo Dance Party." For many years, the station 
was owned by EZ Communications. Debuting at Midnight on April 5, 1981, 
WBZZ (B94) was the city’s number one Top 40 music station, tailoring its 
programming to not only a younger audience, but also a Pittsburgh audience.[2] 
The first song played after the format switch was "You May Be Right" by 
Billy Joel. B94 featured local morning shows such as “Quinn and Banana" 
(featuring Jim Quinn and "Banana" Don Jefferson) from its debut in 1983 
until 1993, and “John, Dave, Bubba, Shelly” (with some minor personality 
changes) from 1993 through 2004. In addition, the station as a whole featured 
a mostly local airstaff who were born and/or raised in the area. EZ Communications 
would merge with American Radio Systems in July 1997, with ARS merging 
with Infinity Broadcasting (owned by CBS Radio) in September of that year. 
(Infinity would be renamed CBS Radio in December 2005.) In 1998, the station 
relocated from its longtime studios on Mount Washington to Foster Plaza 
in Green Tree. In 2000, Clear Channel Communications unveiled a new CHR 
format, KISS-FM, on WKST-FM. The new station began to take a large chunk 
out of B94's audience. With more syndicated programming featuring famous 
national on air talent and focusing more on the younger audience, B94, 
for the first time, saw itself slipping into second place. Also not helping 
matters was sister station WZPT switching to a Hot AC format at the same 
time, which, while it played a mix of 1980s and 1990s music with current 
hits, otherwise had a similar format to B94. In February 2003, WBZZ tweaked 
its name by calling itself “93-7 BZZ”. This was done because the station 
didn't want any confusion of exactly where it was on the radio dial, especially 
considering that the only station in Pittsburgh actually on the 94 range 
(WWSW-FM) had an oldies format. It was also done to re-image the station 
to compete with WKST, and because most radio stations sound out their exact 
frequency rather than rounding it due to the spread of digital tuners. 
Later, in mid-2004, the station tweaked its name again, calling itself 
"B93-7". In 2004, Clear Channel yanked Howard Stern from all of their owned 
stations that aired his show, including the local WXDX-FM. In response, 
WBZZ operations manager Keith Clark decided to flip the station’s format 
after 23 years, and not only pick up Howard Stern (which he saw as a golden 
opportunity to improve the station's ratings), but unveil a new active 
rock format known as "93-7 K-Rock" to compete with Clear Channel’s other 
rock stations. On June 30, 2004, at 8 a.m., without much warning, WBZZ’s 
on-air talent gathered to say goodbye to Pittsburgh, thanking the city 
for its support throughout the years. WBZZ ended the Top 40 format at 8:30 
a.m. with "Move This" by Technotronic, while K-Rock's first song was "For 
Those About To Rock" by AC/DC.[3][4][5][6][7][8] Listeners that had liked 
WBZZ but didn't like the new rock format were encouraged on-air to listen 
to sister station WZPT. The WBZZ call letters would be replaced by WRKZ 
on July 7, 2004. Ratings for the station improved initially after the switch, 
but began to decline before Howard Stern's departure for Sirius Satellite 
Radio. To replace Stern, the station carried David Lee Roth's radio show 
as his replacement. However, due to low ratings, Roth was replaced by Opie 
and Anthony less than three months after his debut. The afternoon drive 
show of Kidd Chris, from co-owned WYSP in Philadelphia, aired on 93.7 from 
August 28, 2006 until March 19, 2007. On April 2, 2007, WRKZ became "93.7 
The Zone," and changed its call signs to WTZN-FM in the process. This left 
Pittsburgh without an active rock station until WKVE flipped to it in 2009. 
The new station, although not carrying the "Free FM" name in its branding, 
was considered to be part of CBS's hot talk network by that name, the only 
station to affiliate with the network after the initial launch. Joining 
the lineup were Opie and Anthony, Pittsburgh native Dennis Miller, and 
former WDVE personality Scott Paulsen.[9] The station also carried programming 
from Sporting News Radio. Miller and Paulsen were displaced to KDKA when 
the format was abandoned. On Monday, October 1, 2007, at 10 AM, after Opie 
and Anthony, WTZN began stunting with Christmas music, in anticipation 
of a format flip scheduled for later that week.[10] The station made some 
fairly obvious hints as to the future of the station, advertising "Something's 
missing in 'Pitts-urgh'," and asking, "What is missing in Pitts-urgh?", 
prompting visitors to go to a message board at http://www.pitts-urgh.com/ 
where there was a message board asking "What do you miss the most about 
Pittsburgh?," among the choices being "B94 Radio." B94 returned to Pittsburgh 
the following Friday, October 5, at 5 pm, with its first song being Justin 
Timberlake's "SexyBack."[11] This marked CBS Radio's first top 40 station 
launch of the late 2000s; it would later launch the format in Houston (KKHH), 
San Francisco (KMVQ-FM), New York City (WXRK), Los Angeles (KAMP-FM), and 
Detroit (WVMV). The return of B94 was apparently part of a CBS Radio initiative 
of resurrecting radio stations that had been killed off for other formats, 
such as WCBS-FM in New York and KFRC-FM in San Francisco. However, unlike 
those stations, which carry classic hits formats, B94 played current hits. 
On November 27, 2007, WTZN switched its call sign to WBZW-FM to reflect 
its new format. B94's former call letters, WBZZ, were in use by an Adult 
Contemporary radio station in Malta, New York. That station is now known 
as WQSH, and CBS has indicated an intention to reacquire the call signs 
for use on one of its properties (which would later be at WZPT). In the 
wake of WAMO-FM's departure from the Urban Contemporary format in September 
2009 after it was sold to a Catholic-based organization, WBZW managed to 
take advantage of the situation by adding current R&B/Hip-Hop tracks to 
pick up the displaced WAMO listeners, even at the expense of the more Rhythmic-heavy 
WKST, but at the same time, stay within the Mainstream Top 40/CHR realm 
due to WKST's Rhythmic direction. On January 19, 2010, it was announced 
that CBS Radio would drop B94 again, and would flip the frequency to sports 
talk, launching February 15, 2010 under the name "Sportsradio 93.7 The 
Fan".[12][13] Again, the change was part of an initiative by CBS to establish 
FM sports talk stations; often displacing heritage music stations in the 
process (WBZ-FM in Boston was another example of this). The station will 
focus on local sports programming while going head-to-head with WEAE and 
WBGG, which are owned by ESPN Radio and affiliated with Fox Sports Radio, 
respectively. Much like the previous abandonment of B94, the station's 
format was merged into WZPT ("Star 100.7"). Bubba and Melanie from the 
former B94 morning show have both moved to Star 100.7, with Bubba joining 
JR and Shelly on the morning show and Melanie Taylor taking the midday 
shift. Former WZPT midday jock Scott Alexander slides to afternoons, prompting 
the exit of former Star afternoon personality Jonny Hartwell. Kobe, B94's 
afternoon jock and Music Director, and Flick, B94's night jock, were both 
released. Flick eventually wound up at WKST, and then the current WBZZ 
(WZPT would adopt the call letters in 2011). Midday guy Sean "Coop" Cooper 
was transferred to nights at WYCD in Detroit.[14] The end of B94 came in 
the late hours of the 14th, when 93.7 began stunting with music played 
at sports events, also known as "jock jams", and liners redirecting listeners 
of B94 to Star, before the flip officially occurred at 6 AM on the 15th. 
Many station liners are also used (with a different branding) on sister 
stations WSCR in Chicago, WKRK-FM in Cleveland, and WFAN/WFAN-FM in New 
York.[15] The station also adopted the call sign KDKA-FM on February 15, 
2010, to reflect the recent trend for CBS Radio all-sports stations in 
markets with a heritage CBS-owned station to have matching call signs, 
in this case KDKA-TV and the historic KDKA Radio. In 2012, KDKA-FM became 
the flagship station for the Pittsburgh Pirates Radio Network. ¹ Clear-channel 
stations with extended nighttime coverage Coordinates: 40°26′28″N 80°01′31″W﻿ 
