KDKA-TV, channel 2, is a CBS owned-and-operated television station located 
in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States. The station is owned by the 
CBS Television Stations subsidiary of CBS Corporation, as part of a duopoly 
with CW station WPCW (channel 19). The two stations share studios located 
at the Gateway Center in downtown Pittsburgh, while KDKA-TV's transmitter 
is located in the Perry North neighborhood of Pittsburgh. On cable, KDKA 
is carried on Comcast channels 6 (channel 3 in Bethel Park and Monroeville, 
and channel 2 in outlying areas) (standard definition) and 802 (high definition), 
and Verizon FiOS channels 2 (standard definition) and 502 (high definition). 
KDKA-TV is available on cable television in the Johnstown, Altoona, and 
Wheeling areas, as well as several other out-of-market cable systems in 
northwestern Pennsylvania, northwestern Maryland, northeastern Ohio, and 
North-Central West Virginia. The furthest south KDKA-TV is carried on cable 
is in Beverly, West Virginia.[1] The station went on the air on January 
11, 1949, as WDTV ("W DuMont TeleVision") on channel 3; it was owned and 
operated by the DuMont Television Network.[2] It was the 51st television 
station in the U.S., the third and last DuMont-owned station to sign on 
the air, behind WABD (now WNYW) in New York City and WTTG in Washington, 
D.C., and the first owned-and-operated station in the state of Pennsylvania. 
To mark the occasion, a live television special aired that day from 8:30 
to 11 p.m. ET on WDTV, which began with a one-hour local program broadcast 
from Syria Mosque in Pittsburgh. The remainder of the show featured live 
segments from DuMont, CBS, NBC, and ABC with Arthur Godfrey, Milton Berle, 
DuMont host Ted Steele, and many other celebrities.[3] The station also 
represented a milestone in the television industry, providing the first 
"network" that included Pittsburgh and 13 other cities from Boston to St. 
Louis.[4] WDTV was one of the last stations to receive a construction permit 
before the Federal Communications Commission-imposed four-year freeze on 
new television station licenses. When the release of the FCC's Sixth Report 
and Order ended the license freeze in 1952, DuMont was forced to give up 
its channel 3 allocation to alleviate interference with nearby stations 
broadcasting on the frequency, notably NBC-owned WNBK (now WKYC) in Cleveland, 
who itself moved to the frequency to avoid interference with stations in 
Columbus and Detroit. WDTV moved its facilities to channel 2 on November 
23, 1952;[5] WPSU-TV would later sign on with the channel 3 frequency for 
the Johnstown/Altoona market. Shortly after moving, it was the first station 
in the country to broadcast 24 hours a day, seven days a week, advertising 
that its 1:00-7:00 a.m. "Swing Shift Theatre" served the "200,000 workers 
[in their viewing area] who finish shift work at midnight."[6] DuMont's 
network of stations on coaxial cable stretched from Boston to St. Louis. 
These stations were linked together via AT&T's coaxial cable feed with 
the sign-on of WDTV allowing the network to broadcast live programming 
to all the stations at the same time. Stations not yet connected to the 
coaxial cable received kinescope recordings via physical delivery.[citation 
needed] Until the end of the freeze, WDTV's only competition came in the 
form of distant signals from stations in Johnstown, Altoona, Wheeling, 
West Virginia and Youngstown, Ohio. However, Pittsburgh saw two UHF stations 
launch during 1953 – ABC affiliate WENS-TV (channel 16, later to become 
WINP-TV), and WKJF-TV (channel 53, later to become WPGH-TV), an independent 
station. At the time, UHF stations could not be viewed without the aid 
of an expensive, set-top converter, and the picture quality was marginal 
at best with one. UHF stations in the area faced an additional problem 
because Pittsburgh is located in a somewhat rugged dissected plateau, and 
the reception of UHF stations is usually poor in such terrain. These factors 
played a role in the short-lived existences of both WKJF and WENS.[citation 
needed] Although Pittsburgh was the sixth largest market in the country 
(behind New York City, Chicago, Los Angeles, Philadelphia and Washington-Baltimore), 
the other VHF stations in town were slow to develop. This was because the 
major cities in the Upper Ohio Valley are so close together that they must 
share the VHF band. After the FCC lifted the license freeze in 1952, it 
refused to grant any new commercial VHF construction permits to Pittsburgh 
in order to give the smaller cities in the area a chance to get on the 
air. WDTV had a de facto monopoly on Pittsburgh television. Like its sister 
stations WABD and WTTG, it was far stronger than the DuMont network as 
a whole. According to network general manager Ted Bergmann, WDTV brought 
in $4 million a year, which was more than enough to keep the network afloat. 
Owning the only readily viewable station in such a large market gave DuMont 
considerable leverage in getting its programs cleared in large markets 
where it did not have an affiliate. As CBS, NBC and ABC had secondary affiliations 
with WDTV, this was a strong incentive to stations in large markets to 
clear DuMont's programs or risk losing valuable advertising in the sixth-largest 
market. Also, NBC affiliates from Johnstown (WJAC-TV) and Wheeling (WTRF-TV, 
itself now affiliated with CBS) were able to be received in Pittsburgh 
and a CBS affiliate from Steubenville, Ohio (WSTV-TV, now NBC affiliate 
WTOV-TV) was also able to be received there as well. CBS, in fact, actually 
attempted to purchase WSTV-TV's license before it went on the air and move 
its license to Pittsburgh due to the close proximity between Pittsburgh 
and Steubenville (At the time less than an hour apart by car; the completion 
of the Penn-Lincoln Parkway in 1964 reduced that time to about a half-hour 
driving time today.), but the FCC turned CBS down. The Wheeling/Steubenville 
TV market, despite its very close proximity to Pittsburgh and overlapping 
signals, remains a separate market by FCC standards today. WDTV aired all 
DuMont network shows live and "cherry-picked" the best shows from the other 
networks, airing them on kinescope on an every-other-week basis. WDTV's 
sign-on was also significant because it was now possible to feed live programs 
from the East to the Midwest and vice versa. In fact, its second broadcast 
was the activation of the coaxial cable linking New York City and Chicago. 
It would be another two years before the West Coast received live programming, 
but this was the beginning of the modern era of network television.[citation 
needed] By 1954, DuMont was in serious financial trouble. Paramount Pictures, 
which owned a stake in DuMont, vetoed a merger with ABC, who had merged 
with Paramount's former theater division United Paramount Theaters a year 
before. A few years earlier, the FCC had ruled that Paramount controlled 
DuMont and there were still lingering questions about whether UPT had actually 
broken off from Paramount. Paramount did not want to risk the FCC's wrath. 
Meanwhile, Pittsburgh-based Westinghouse Electric Corporation had been 
competing with local politicians to acquire the non-commercial channel 
13 license from the FCC, as no other Pittsburgh-allocated VHF station would 
be signing on for the foreseeable future. After launching WBZ-TV in Boston 
in 1948 and purchasing two other television stations, Westinghouse was 
growing impatient with not having a station in its own home market. Before 
the freeze, Westinghouse was a shoo-in for the channel 6 license that would 
later be given to WJAC-TV in Johnstown after that station gave up the channel 
13 allocation to Pittsburgh as part of the FCC's reallocation plan.[8] 
Westinghouse later offered a compromise plan to the FCC, in which the Commission 
would grant Westinghouse the channel 13 license; Westinghouse would then 
"share" the facility with the educational licensee. Finding the terms unacceptable, 
Pittsburgh attorney Leland Hazard called Westinghouse CEO Gwilym Price 
to ask him if he should give up on his fight for public television. Price 
said that Hazard should keep fighting for it, giving Westinghouse backing 
for the station that would eventually become WQED.[9] Westinghouse then 
turned its attention to WDTV, offering DuMont a then-record $9.75 million 
for the station in late 1954. Desperate for cash, DuMont promptly accepted 
Westinghouse's offer.[10] While the sale gave DuMont a short-term cash 
infusion, it eliminated DuMont's leverage in getting clearances in other 
major markets. Within two years, the DuMont network was no more. After 
the sale closed in January 1955, Westinghouse changed WDTV's call letters 
to KDKA-TV, after Westinghouse's pioneering radio station KDKA (1020 AM).[11] 
As such, it became one of the few stations east of the Mississippi River 
with a "K" call sign. The WDTV calls now reside on a CBS affiliate located 
130 miles south of Pittsburgh in Weston, West Virginia, which is unrelated 
to the current KDKA-TV. That station, which signed on after KDKA-TV adopted 
its current callsign, adopted those calls "in honor" of KDKA-TV. As KDKA 
radio had long been an affiliate of the NBC Blue Network (Westinghouse 
was a co-founder of RCA, NBC's then-parent company), it was expected that 
KDKA-TV would eventually become a primary affiliate of the NBC television 
network. But the network was seeking to purchase Westinghouse's Philadelphia 
stations, KYW radio and WPTZ (now KYW-TV). When Westinghouse balked, NBC 
threatened to pull its programming from WPTZ and Boston's WBZ-TV unless 
Westinghouse agreed to trade its Philadelphia properties for NBC's radio 
and television properties in Cleveland. The decision would lead to an acrimonious 
relationship between Westinghouse and NBC in later years.[12][13] Two years 
after the ownership change, channel 2 became a primary affiliate of the 
higher-rated CBS network instead.[14] KDKA-TV retained secondary affiliations 
with NBC until WIIC-TV (channel 11, now WPXI) signed on in 1957, and ABC 
until WTAE-TV (channel 4) signed on in 1958. Despite the ending of its 
commercial VHF monopoly, KDKA-TV did welcome competitor WIIC-TV on the 
air.[15] KDKA-TV became the flagship station of Westinghouse's broadcasting 
arm, Group W. During the late 1950s, KDKA-TV was briefly affiliated with 
the NTA Film Network, sharing the affiliation with WTAE-TV, WIIC-TV, and 
WQED.[16] On November 22, 1963, newscaster Bill Burns provided almost three 
hours of live coverage after the shooting of President John F. Kennedy.[17] 
Over the years, channel 2 pre-empted moderate amounts of CBS programming. 
At one point, from the early 1960s to July 1990, the station did not clear 
As the World Turns. At the same time, WTAJ-TV in Altoona had run the program 
and was viewable in the eastern part of the Pittsburgh market. Also, CBS 
affiliate WTRF-TV in Wheeling, West Virginia was viewable in Pittsburgh 
and to the west. Until 1978, the show ran on WPGH and for a few years after 
that, it ran on WPTT-TV (channel 22). KDKA-TV also preempted the daytime 
game shows and reruns from CBS at various points during the 1970s. KDKA-TV 
also produced plenty of local programs such as Evening Magazine, Pittsburgh 
Talks, and local newscasts. The station also occasionally preempted CBS 
primetime programs for a syndicated movie, local news special, or sports 
during the years the station had broadcast rights to Pittsburgh Pirates 
baseball and Pittsburgh Penguins hockey. Weekend pre-emptions included 
a small portion of Saturday and Sunday morning cartoons, and Sunday morning 
religious programs. In 1993, KDKA-TV stopped running CBS This Morning and 
instead ran Disney's syndicated cartoon block. Despite the pre-emptions, 
CBS was mostly satisfied with KDKA-TV as it dominated its local market 
ratings. In 1994, Westinghouse was looking to make a group-wide affiliation 
deal for its stations as part of a larger plan to transform itself into 
a major media conglomerate. Westinghouse negotiated with NBC and CBS for 
a deal. Had Westinghouse signed with NBC, KDKA-TV would affiliate itself 
with NBC forty years after passing up the network, with the CBS affiliation 
going to WPXI, who had originally intended to affiliate itself with CBS 
until the NBC-Westinghouse feud started as well as channel 11's own sign-on 
problems in the 1950s.[18] While NBC (the highest-rated network during 
much of the 1990s) offered more money, CBS was interested in the programming 
opportunities Westinghouse offered, due to its own stagnation in programming 
at the time. CBS also offered a potential merger of their respective radio 
networks down the road (which ultimately happened), something NBC abandoned 
altogether in 1987. Ultimately, Westinghouse signed a long-term deal with 
CBS to convert the entire five-station Group W television unit to a group-wide 
CBS affiliation, making the Pittsburgh market one of the few major markets 
not to be affected by the 1994 United States broadcast TV realignment.[19][20] 
Part of this agreement included a deal to stop preempting any CBS shows, 
except for extended breaking news coverage or local news events beginning 
in 1995. KDKA-TV continued preempting moderate amounts of programming into 
1995. In the fall of 1995, channel 2 began running the entire CBS lineup 
in pattern, as it, and sister station KPIX-TV in San Francisco, were already 
affiliated with the network. In 1995, Westinghouse acquired CBS, making 
KDKA-TV a CBS owned-and-operated station, after four decades as being simply 
a CBS affiliate. In 1997, Westinghouse became CBS Corporation, which would 
then merge with Viacom (which, ironically, has been Paramount's parent 
since 1994) in 2000, making KDKA-TV a sister station with Pittsburgh UPN 
affiliate WNPA-TV (channel 19, now CW station WPCW). Five years later, 
Viacom became CBS Corporation and spun off a new Viacom. In August 2007, 
KDKA-TV unveiled a new image campaign, entitled Your Home, with music and 
lyrics performed by singer-songwriter Bill Deasy. The promo features scenes 
of Pittsburgh and its surrounding areas, as well as three of the station's 
personalites. In September 2007, the station unveiled another promo featuring 
the Joe Grushecky song "Coming Home". Later, a third spot, "Long Way Home", 
was introduced, featuring the voice of Kelsey Friday.[21] The station's 
digital channel is multiplexed: KDKA-TV shut down its analog signal, over 
VHF channel 2, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power 
television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital 
broadcasts under federal mandate, during that night's broadcast of the 
Late Show with David Letterman. The station's digital signal remained on 
its pre-transition UHF channel 25.[24] Before they turned off their analog 
signal and go to nightlight, they showed the High flight video clip, and 
a compilation of their Analog history with the Star spangled Banner as 
background music.. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers 
display the station's virtual channel as its former VHF analog channel 
2. In July 2009, the station applied to the Federal Communications Commission 
(FCC) to operate two repeater signals: channel 31 in Morgantown, West Virginia 
and channel 40 in Johnstown.[25] On October 21, 2014, CBS and Weigel Broadcasting 
announced the launch of a new digital subchannel service called Decades, 
scheduled to launch on all CBS-owned stations in 2015, including on KDKA-TV 
on channel 2.2. The channel will be co-owned by CBS and Weigel (owner of 
CBS affiliate WDJT-TV in Milwaukee), with Weigel being responsible for 
distribution to non-CBS-owned stations. It will air programs from the extensive 
library of CBS Television Distribution, including archival footage from 
CBS News. Locally, the channel will compete with This TV on WTAE-DT2, Me-TV 
(also owned by Weigel) on WPXI-DT2, and GetTV on WPGH-DT2.[23] As a Westinghouse-owned 
station, KDKA-TV carried the numerous syndicated talk shows produced by 
its parent company, including The Merv Griffin Show, The Mike Douglas Show, 
and Hour Magazine. Later, KDKA-TV carried The Oprah Winfrey Show during 
its first nine nationally syndicated seasons (1986-1995), airing the show 
weekdays at 5 PM. In 1989, KDKA-TV acquired the rights to The Sally Jessy 
Raphael Show, airing it weekdays at 9 AM and Phil Donahue weekdays at 4 
PM, respectively. However, due to the poor ratings of Donahue in the Pittsburgh 
market, KDKA-TV showed strong interest in new talk shows. Due to KDKA-TV 
being owned by CBS, the station airs the entire network lineup in order. 
Sally & Donahue moved to WTAE-TV in 1993, and two years later, KDKA-TV 
debuted a 5:00 PM newscast, at which point Oprah Winfrey also moved to 
WTAE-TV, airing at 4:00 PM. In 1997, Ricki Lake moved to WPGH-TV and The 
Sally Jessy Raphael Show returned to KDKA-TV, and once again was given 
the 9 AM time slot, where it remained on and off until its cancellation 
in 2002. Sally was a success in the Pittsburgh area, even beating Montel 
Williams on WPXI in the 1990s. A revamped version of Pittsburgh 2day Live 
replaced Sally. KDKA-TV aired The Rosie O'Donnell Show during its entire 
six-year run at the 4 PM time slot. After the show ended its run in 2002, 
rather than airing its replacement (the short-lived The Caroline Rhea Show, 
which aired on WPXI), KDKA-TV became the first station in the Pittsburgh 
market to air a 4 PM newscast. KDKA-TV remains the only Pittsburgh station, 
and one of the few in the country (alongside fellow CBS station WOIO in 
Cleveland) to air a 4 PM newscast. (The 4 PM slot has been considered a 
graveyard slot by the networks since the 1980s, and by stations itself 
since the 1990s.) Today, the only talk show on KDKA-TV is Dr. Phil, serving 
as a lead-in to the evening newscasts. Unlike its rivals, KDKA-TV's evening 
newscast is three hours broadcasting from 4-7pm. In return, CBS Evening 
News airs at 7pm making one of the fewest CBS O&Os to air the evening program 
on a tape-delay basis. As CBS holds the broadcast contract with the NFL 
to show games involving AFC teams, KDKA-TV has been the official broadcaster 
of most Pittsburgh Steelers games since 1998, and serves as the team's 
flagship station. The team's preseason games that are not nationally televised 
are also shown on KDKA-TV. KDKA-TV began its relationship with the Steelers 
in 1962, when CBS first started the leaguewide television package. The 
Steelers are one of three AFC teams that predate the AFC's basis league, 
the American Football League, and so KDKA-TV, and not WTAE-TV or WIIC-TV 
(now WPXI), carried Steelers road games (home games were blacked out locally 
under all circumstances until 1973, when sold-out home games began to be 
allowed on local television) – the AFL had television contracts with ABC, 
and later, NBC. Due to the NFL rules of the time, after the AFL-NFL merger, 
KDKA-TV did not broadcast any Steelers games from 1970 to 1972. Beginning 
in 1973, KDKA-TV was allowed to air any Steelers games in which they hosted 
a team from the National Football Conference, which contained most of the 
old-line National Football League teams. KDKA-TV also broadcast two Steeler 
championship wins, Super Bowl X in 1976 and Super Bowl XIV in 1980. Since 
the Steelers have sold out every home game starting in 1972, no blackouts 
have been required. In the meantime, from 1970 to 1997, channel 11 aired 
most Steelers games. When the NFC package moved from CBS to Fox in 1994, 
WPGH-TV aired the Steelers games that had before aired on KDKA-TV, leaving 
the senior station without Steelers games for four years. Today, and in 
general since 1970, the only exceptions to all the above are when the Steelers 
play at night. Their Monday Night Football games have always aired locally 
on WTAE-TV, first when ABC had the rights, and since 2006, on ESPN. WTAE-TV 
also aired simulcasts of their games aired as part of ESPN Sunday Night 
Football from 1987 to 2005. The NFL requires games on cable channels to 
be simulcast over-the-air in the markets of the participating teams (again 
with the home team's broadcast subject to blackout). WTAE-TV has simulcast 
ESPN-aired games because ESPN is 20% owned by WTAE-TV's owners, Hearst 
Corporation – their ABC stations have right of first refusal for these 
simulcasts. Games on TNT and NFL Network have aired on various stations 
in the area.[citation needed] KDKA-TV presently broadcasts 34½ hours of 
locally produced newscasts each week (with six hours on weekdays, three 
hours on Saturdays and 1½ hours on Sundays); KDKA-TV also produces 27 hours 
of local newscasts each week for CW owned-and-operated sister station WPCW, 
in the form of an hour-long extension of KDKA-TV's weekday morning newscast 
at 7 a.m. and a nightly 35-minute newscast at 10 p.m. The station also 
shares newsgathering operations and co-produces certain public affairs 
shows with the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette newspaper. In 2001, KDKA-TV began 
producing a 10 p.m. newscast on WNPA (now WPCW); in 2005, it added a two-hour 
weekday morning newscast from 7-9 a.m. on that station (which was later 
reduced to one hour from 7-8 a.m.). On June 16, 2009, KDKA-TV began broadcasting 
its local newscasts in high definition during its noon broadcast, with 
the introduction of a new set and weather center. Like rival WTAE, only 
video from in-studio cameras is broadcast in HD while most of the content, 
including field reports and video footage, are in pillarboxed 4:3 standard 
definition. On September 1, 2010, KDKA-TV debuted the standardized CBS 
O&O graphics and music package ("The CBS Enforcer Music Collection" by 
Gari Media Group). As of May 2015, KDKA-TV is the most watched news station 
in the Pittsburgh area in the hours of Noon, 4, 5, 6 and 11 p.m.; the 7 
a.m. newscast it produces for WPCW rated quite strongly at that time slot. 
However, WTAE-TV is the most watched news program in the area in the hours 
of 6 a.m. WPXI is also most watched at the 5 a.m hour. WPGH-TV is the 10PM 
