KDKA (1020 kHz AM) is a Class A (clear channel) radio station, owned and 
operated by CBS Radio and licensed to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Its studios 
are located at the combined CBS Radio Pittsburgh facility in the Foster 
Plaza on Holiday Drive in Green Tree, and its transmitter site is at Allison 
Park. The station's programming is also carried over KDKA-FM's 93.7 HD2 
digital subchannel.[2] KDKA features a News/Talk format. Operating with 
a transmitter power output of 50,000 watts, the station can be heard during 
daylight hours throughout central and western Pennsylvania, along with 
portions of the adjacent states of Ohio, West Virginia and New York, plus 
the Canadian province of Ontario. Its nighttime signal covers much of eastern 
North America. KDKA has described itself as the "Pioneer Broadcasting Station 
of the World",[3] and traces its beginning — initially using the temporarily 
assigned "special amateur" call sign of 8ZZ — to its broadcast of the 1920 
Harding-Cox presidential election results on the evening of November 2, 
1920. Although KDKA's history has been extensively reviewed, there are 
some inconsistencies between accounts, leading one researcher to note: 
"While the KDKA story is often recounted, the details tend to vary slightly 
both in the secondary source material and in the published recollections 
of the participants, including differences in the chronology of events 
and the relative importance of the parties involved."[4] KDKA's establishment 
was an outgrowth of the post-World War I efforts of the Westinghouse Electric 
and Manufacturing Company of East Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania to expand its 
commercial operations in the radio industry. During the war Westinghouse 
received government contracts to develop radio transmitters and receivers 
for military use, using recently developed vacuum tube equipment that was 
capable of audio communication, in contrast to the earlier spark gap transmitters, 
which could only be used to transmit the dots-and-dashes of Morse code. 
At the time of the entry of the United States into World War I in April 
1917, the government ordered all civilian radio stations off the air. However, 
during the conflict Westinghouse received permission to operate research 
radio transmitters located at its East Pittsburgh plant and at the home 
of one of its lead engineers, Frank Conrad, in nearby Wilkinsburg.[5] With 
the end of the war, the government contracts were canceled. However Westinghouse 
moved aggressively to establish itself as a national and international 
provider of radio communication. Its primary competitor in this effort 
was the Radio Corporation of America (RCA), which had recently been formed 
as a subsidiary by Westinghouse's arch rival, the General Electric Company 
of Schenectady, New York, using the assets of the Marconi Company of America. 
The effort to establish Westinghouse's radio industry presence was led 
by company vice president H. P. Davis.[6] In order to strengthen the company's 
patent position, especially related to receivers, he spearheaded the purchase 
of the International Radio Telegraph Company, primarily to gain control 
of a "heterodyne" patent originally issued to Reginald Fessenden, and also 
arranged for the purchase of the commercial rights to the regenerative 
and superheterodyne patents held by Edwin Howard Armstrong. However, because 
of the competitive advantage RCA had in international and marine communications, 
initially there appeared to be limited opportunities available to Westinghouse.[7] 
Although it would gain its fame as a broadcasting station, KDKA actually 
originated as part of a project to establish private radiotelegraph links 
between Westinghouse's East Pittsburgh factory and its other facilities, 
to avoid the business expense of paying for telegraph and telephone lines. 
In September 1920, a newspaper report noted that "a new high-power station, 
to operate under a special or commercial license, is being installed at 
the Westinghouse plant in East Pittsburgh. It will be used to establish 
communication between the East Pittsburgh plant and the company branch 
factories at Cleveland, O., Newark, N. J., and Springfield, Mass., where 
similar outfits will be employed."[8] An application, signed by H. P. Davis, 
was submitted to the Eighth District Radio Inspector, S. W. Edwards in 
Detroit, who forwarded it to Washington, and on October 27, 1920 Westinghouse 
was issued a Limited Commercial station license, serial #174, with the 
identifying call letters of KDKA.[9] This Limited Commercial grant was 
consistent with the standard practice being followed at this time, for 
licenses issued to companies engaging in private radio communication. Neither 
KDKA's original application, nor the resulting license, mentioned broadcasting, 
only that the station was to be used for radiotelegraphic communication 
with stations located at the Westinghouse facilities in Cleveland, Newark 
and Springfield, plus station WCG in Brooklyn, New York, which was operated 
by the recently acquired International Radio Telegraph.[10] At this time, 
radio stations in the United States were regulated by the Department of 
Commerce's Bureau of Navigation. Beginning with the introduction of licensing 
in late 1912, the standard practice had been to assign call letters starting 
with "W" to radio stations in the eastern United States. However, KDKA 
happened to receive its assignment during a short period during which land 
stations were being issued call letters from a sequential block of "K" 
call letters that had been previously been assigned only to ship stations. 
Although the original policy was restored a few months later, KDKA was 
permitted to keep its non-standard call sign.[11] Shortly after beginning 
the process of setting up KDKA to be used for point-to-point communication, 
a series of events occurred which resulted in it also becoming a broadcasting 
station, which would overshadow its original role. Prior to World War I, 
Frank Conrad had operated an experimental radiotelegraph station, with 
the callsign 8XK.[12] Following the war, the U.S. government again allowed 
the operation of civilian radio stations, and Conrad revived 8XK, which 
was located in a detached two-story garage at his residence. He used the 
knowledge gained during the wartime period to upgrade his station to begin 
making audio transmissions, and became well known among radio amateurs 
for his experimental activities.[13] On October 17, 1919 Conrad made the 
first of what would become a semi-regular series of entertainment broadcasts.[14] 
During this time the Joseph Horne department store ran daily full-page 
advertisements in the Pittsburgh papers, and, in its September 23, 1920 
placement, stated that the store had started selling "Amateur Wireless 
Sets" for "$10 upwards".[15] Six days later, the store's September 29 installment 
included a small notice titled "Air Concert 'Picked Up' By Radio Here", 
which noted that its demonstration set had been used to receive one of 
the Conrad broadcasts.[16] H. P. Davis saw this advertisement and immediately 
recognized the "limitless opportunity" of adding radio receivers to the 
lines of appliances sold to the general public by Westinghouse,[17] and 
in order to create demand for the receivers, he decided that Westinghouse 
should provide regular programming as an incentive for persons considering 
a purchase. Davis held a staff meeting with his "radio cabinet" and asked 
them to have a station operational in time to broadcast the presidential 
and local election returns on November 2, 1920. Election return broadcasts 
had been a tradition since shortly after the development of radio, although 
due to technical limitations initially they could only be done using Morse 
code, which greatly limited the potential audiences.[18] Following the 
development of vacuum-tube transmitters that made audio transmissions possible, 
the first spoken-word election night broadcast was made on November 7, 
1916 by the DeForest Radio Telephone and Telegraph Company's station, 2XG, 
located in the Highbridge section of New York City, in conjunction with 
the New York American, announcing the results of the Wilson-Hughes presidential 
election.[19] On August 31, 1920, the Detroit News, whose "Detroit News 
Radiophone" began making daily broadcasts on August 20, had broadcast local 
primary election results.[20] Westinghouse's preparations included the 
construction of a shack and antenna system on the roof of the nine story 
K Building at the East Pittsburgh Works in Turtle Creek, Pennsylvania.[21] 
Frank Conrad had originally planned to broadcast the election results over 
8XK, in cooperation with the American Radio Relay League, but shifted his 
efforts to help with the Westinghouse broadcast. He and Donald G. Little 
had primary responsibility for constructing a 100 watt vacuum-tube transmitter. 
A telephoned temporary authorization was received to operate under the 
call sign of 8ZZ.[22] (The first "Z" in this call sign indicated it was 
a "Special Amateur" grant,[23] which was a classification that permitted 
the use of transmitting frequencies other than the congested 200 meter 
(1500 kHz) standard amateur wavelength.) Although the pre-broadcast publicity 
and contemporary accounts stated that 8ZZ was the call sign used for the 
election night broadcast — for example, in 1922 L. R. Krumm, Westinghouse's 
Superintendent of Radio Operations, referred to Westinghouse's "station 
at East Pittsburgh, now known as KDKA, the matured successor of 8ZZ"[24] 
— later reviews, including a 1930 re-creation of the original broadcast, 
often incorrectly state that the KDKA call sign was used during the debut 
broadcast.[25] Extensive regional publicity by Westinghouse heralded the 
upcoming broadcast, both among technically knowledgeable amateur radio 
enthusiasts, plus, through the organization of public listening sites, 
toward a more general audience of potential future radio receiver purchasers. 
Promotional announcements described the offering as a joint effort between 
Westinghouse and its International Radio Telegraph subsidiary,[26] and 
A. E. Braun, an International Radio Telegraph officer who was also the 
president of the Pittsburgh Sun, made the arrangements for his newspaper 
to provide election results to the station.[27] In the days before November 
2nd a series of test transmissions were made to check the equipment. The 
announcer for the election night broadcast was a publicity department staff 
member, Leo Rosenberg. Frank Conrad stood by at his home station,[28] ready 
to take over using his 8XK transmitter if the East Pittsburgh transmitter 
failed, but the effort was successful, with one newspaper report noting 
that: "The returns by wireless telephone, which were transmitted from the 
Westinghouse international radio station at East Pittsburgh, were exceptionally 
clear and distinct. The service was utilized by many amateurs to entertain 
gatherings at their various stations. Between announcements of the returns 
radiophone music was transmitted, which added much to the entertainment."[29] 
This Westinghouse broadcast was not unique — that evening at least two 
other stations made audio transmissions of election returns, one a temporary 
arrangement made by the Saint Louis Post-Dispatch in conjunction with W. 
E. Woods of the Benwoods Company, "manufacturers and distributors of wireless 
outfits",[30] and the other a broadcast by the Detroit News' "Detroit News 
Radiophone" station.[31] And although later station publicity proclaimed 
that Westinghouse's election night broadcast "was a national sensation, 
acclaimed by newspapers all over the country",[32] a comprehensive review 
of contemporary newspapers determined that reports, although positive, 
actually appeared only in a few local papers, thus it "was not an immediate 
'sensation' and that the fame of this event developed over time with later 
celebratory accounts".[33] However, KDKA would eventually gain national 
prominence once it began to offer an extensive range of programming. After 
initially operating under the call sign 8ZZ — apparently for just a few 
days, although the chronology is not completely clear — the station switched 
to identifying itself as KDKA. Through the next month semiweekly broadcasts 
were made,[34] until December 21, when the station embarked on an ambitious 
daily schedule,[35][36] initially for about an hour each evening. (Reflecting 
the December launch, the January 1, 1922 debut issue of Westinghouse's 
Radio Broadcasting News included the reference "Fifty-fourth week broadcasting".)[37] 
KDKA soon gained a reputation as one of the premier broadcasting stations 
in the nation. On August 1, 1921 the transmitter was upgraded from 100 
to 500 watts, and two months later saw an additional doubling, to 1,000 
watts.[34] The election night broadcast was transmitted on a wavelength 
of 550 meters (545 kHz). Later publicity stated that KDKA was now broadcasting 
on 330 meters (909 kHz), and in the fall of 1921 all the Westinghouse broadcasting 
stations began using 360 meters (833 kHz). In the United States there were 
no formal standards defining a broadcasting station until December 1, 1921, 
when the Department of Commerce issued a regulation specifying that stations 
making broadcasts intended for the general public now had to hold a Limited 
Commercial license that authorized operation on 360 or 485 meters (833 
or 619 kHz).[38] KDKA was one of a small number of stations that already 
met this standard at the time of its adoption, as its second year-long 
license, issued November 7, 1921, included the notation "360 meters for 
general broadcasting" in addition to continuing the point-to-point service 
authorization.[39] Encouraged by the success of KDKA, by the end of 1921 
Westinghouse established stations in three additional major population 
centers, including WJZ in Newark, New Jersey (now WABC in New York City), 
WBZ, originally in Springfield, Massachusetts (now Boston), and KYW, originally 
in Chicago, Illinois (now Philadelphia). As a pioneer in radio broadcasting, 
KDKA struggled in particular with studio acoustics, especially for large 
groups of performers. An early attempt to broadcast a concert by Westinghouse 
employees from a local auditorium found that the sensitive microphones 
picked up echoes from the walls, causing severe distortion. Moving the 
performers outdoors eliminated the echoing, so a tent was erected on the 
building roof, and for a time concerts were performed from this location. 
Eventually the tent was blown down in a storm, so it was moved indoors, 
where it was found the tent material helped deaden the echoes. This lead 
to modern studio design, including walls covered with noise-absorbing material, 
initially "monks cloth" (which turned out to be a fancy name for burlap).[40] 
Early programming often featured live musical performances by a band composed 
of Westinghouse employees. The station provided its first remote broadcast 
on January 2, 1921, airing a religious service from Calvary Episcopal Church. 
The Calvary services soon became a regular Sunday evening offering, and 
were continued until 1962.[41] On January 15, 1921, at 8 p.m., KDKA broadcast 
a speech on European relief by Herbert Hoover from the Duquesne Club in 
Pittsburgh, that was carried ten miles (sixteen kilometers) by a telephone 
line connection to Westinghouse's East Pittsburgh Works.[42] On July 2, 
1921, an announcer repeated the ringside commentary, sent by telegraph, 
from the Jack Dempsey - Georges Carpentier fight in New Jersey.[43] On 
August 21, 1921, KDKA became the first radio station to broadcast a major 
league professional baseball game, when announcer Harold W. Arlin called 
the Pittsburgh Pirates-Philadelphia Phillies game from Forbes Field.[44] 
In the fall of that year, the station became the first to broadcast a college 
football game. In 1922, KDKA hosted political humorist Will Rogers in his 
first radio appearance. Initially KDKA had to share its 360 meter assignment 
with the other broadcasting stations that were established in the region, 
until May 15, 1923, when the Department of Commerce expanded the broadcasting 
frequency assignments into a band from 550 to 1350 kHz. Under this new 
plan 920 kHz was exclusively allocated to Pittsburgh, and KDKA was granted 
sole use of this frequency. In 1923, KDKA began simulcasting its broadcasts 
on shortwave, and for a while used this as a link for transmitting its 
programs for rebroadcast by station KFHX in Hastings, Nebraska, as part 
of an unsuccessful experiment to use shortwave signals instead of telephone 
lines to establish network connections.[45] The original financing plan, 
of using the revenues from radio receiver sales to pay station costs, proved 
to be insufficient for a number of reasons. Additional expenses included 
the requirement to pay royalties to musical composers, plus the fact that, 
unlike the amateur Westinghouse Company staff performers, professional 
acts started to expect to be paid in something more tangible than publicity. 
On the revenue side, Westinghouse found that it didn't have the near-monopoly 
for selling vacuum-tube receivers that it expected it had gotten through 
the purchase of the commercial rights to the Armstrong regenerative patent. 
Armstrong had previously sold "amateur and experimental" rights to around 
17 small firms, which also began selling receivers to the general public. 
Westinghouse sued on the grounds that this went beyond their rights, but 
lost, which resulted in the formation of a series of major competitors, 
including Crosley and Zenith.[46] Running over-the-air commercials was 
an obvious financing alternative, but initially Westinghouse officials 
were soundly against the idea, contending that it would destroy the listening 
experience. In 1922 J. C. McQuiston, from the Westinghouse Department of 
Publicity, declared that "if advertising were permitted, it goes without 
saying that all the good work that has been done in giving valuable information 
and pleasant entertainment for the people would be destroyed".[47] In 1922, 
H. P. Davis suggested that the best solution was "five or six large, well-located 
and powerful stations" which "could be licensed, protected and organized... 
and that it would become a matter of such public value, that endowments 
or Federal subsidies would be possible which would assist those responsible 
for the service to carry it on and to continue the development and research 
required to get the most value out of it."[48] However, in 1928 he stated 
that he had realized "from the beginning" that advertising would be the 
ultimate financing solution.[49] Westinghouse, along with RCA and General 
Electric, was a co-founder in 1926 of the National Broadcasting Company 
(NBC), which created two national radio networks: the NBC Red Network and 
the NBC Blue Network. KDKA became affiliated with the Blue network, and 
with this change began selling airtime: up until now, the station had been 
commercial-free. KDKA played popular music and advertisers began sponsoring 
special radio programs like The Philco Hour, The Maxwell House Hour and 
The Wrigley Party. A general frequency reassignment under the provisions 
of newly formed Federal Radio Commission's General Order 40, effective 
November 11, 1928, led to KDKA being assigned to the "clear channel" frequency 
of 980 kHz. On January 1, 1929, the station inaugurated new studio facilities 
located in the William Penn Hotel,[50] and on June 26 relocated its Master 
Control facilities to the hotel.[51] In 1932, as a result of antitrust 
proceedings, Westinghouse had to divest its 40% ownership stake of RCA 
and 20% ownership in NBC.[52] At 7 a.m on November 2, 1934, the station's 
14th birthday, KDKA inaugurated new studios in the Grant Building.[53] 
The William Penn Hotel studios later became the home of WCAE. In the 1930s, 
KDKA began the long-running (1932–1980) Uncle Ed Shaughency show. The station 
played popular big band and jazz music every morning as well as hosting 
the KDKA Farm Hour. From 1941 to 1959, the Farm Hour was built around farm 
reports along with music by Slim Bryant and his Wildcats, who eventually 
became the top local country music act in the Pittsburgh area. Special 
programming included ongoing coverage of the 1936 St. Patrick's Day flood 
that submerged downtown Pittsburgh as far as Wood Street. A final frequency 
change took place in March 1941, under the provisions of the North American 
Regional Broadcasting Agreement, as KDKA's clear channel assignment was 
shifted from 980 to 1020 kHz. In 1943 NBC was compelled by the U.S. government 
to divest itself of one of its two networks, which resulted in it selling 
the Blue network (which became the American Broadcasting Company). Prior 
to the sale KDKA swapped affiliations with KQV to become affiliated with 
the NBC-Red network.[54] Also during this period, in 1942 it gained a sister 
station, W75P, on the then-new FM band, which later became KDKA-FM, changing 
to WPNT in 1979. This station was sold by Westinghouse in 1984, and is 
now WLTJ. In 1946, KDKA provided live coverage of the inauguration of David 
L. Lawrence as Pittsburgh Mayor, as well as the presidential and gubernatorial 
inaugurations. By the end of the decade, the musical and comedy team of 
Buzz Aston and Bill Hinds, billed as "Buzz & Bill", aired. In the 1950s, 
Ed Shaughency was moved from mornings to the afternoon, losing his partner, 
Rainbow (Elmer Walters) in the process. Impressed with the success Rege 
Cordic was having at WWSW, KDKA hired him away, and Cordic started his 
KDKA run on Labor Day, 1954. The Cordic & Company morning show, featuring 
a team of bright and innovative personalities, was a pioneer of today's 
"morning team" radio format, but in an unconventional way. Cordic and his 
group played a small amount of music, but primarily provided entertainment 
through skits, including recurring characters such as "Louie The Garbageman" 
and space alien "Omicron". Cordic's crew included Karl Hardman and Bob 
Trow, later known for portraying "Bob Dog" on Mister Rogers' Neighborhood. 
The 1950s saw a shift to more local programming, as the national radio 
shows were moving to television. Art Pallan, hired away from WWSW, and 
Bob Tracey became household names, playing the popular music of the day. 
For some years announcer Sterling Yates, also a musician, played hip, progressive 
jazz on a Sunday morning broadcast. On January 1, 1951, the married couple 
Ed and Wendy King launched Party Line, KDKA's first talk show, which ended 
its 20-year run on November 18, 1971 upon Ed King's death. Unlike most 
talk shows, callers were not heard, with the couple taking turns relaying 
the callers' information. In 1956 newsman Bill Steinbach began his 36-year 
career at the station — within 10 years he was the anchor of the award-winning 
90-to-6 news program. KDKA cautiously embraced rock and roll music, with 
artists such as Bill Haley, the Everly Brothers, Fats Domino, and Elvis 
Presley, in addition to popular vocalists including Frank Sinatra, Peggy 
Lee, and Canonsburg, Pennsylvania native Perry Como. However, the station's 
sound remained much more conservative than most Top 40 stations. In 1955, 
the station began regular broadcasts of Pirate baseball games, a partnership 
that ended in 2006, but was restarted in 2012 when KDKA-FM began carrying 
the games. KDKA gained a television sister station in late 1954, when Westinghouse 
purchased WDTV (changing its call letters to KDKA-TV) from the DuMont Television 
Network for a then-record price of $9.75 million.[55] Before the purchase, 
Westinghouse had attempted to purchase the channel 13 license allocated 
for public broadcasting, but eventually donated the tower to public interest 
groups and gave financial backing for the eventual WQED.[56] In a somewhat 
surprising move, KDKA-TV affiliated with CBS, in contrast to KDKA's longtime 
NBC affiliation. KDKA radio remained affiliated with NBC radio until the 
network purchased WJAS in 1957 in order for WJAS's owners to gain a 50% 
ownership stake in WIIC-TV (now WPXI) with the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette.[57] 
KDKA then went independent, relying more on its Group W ties than on a 
national network. By May 1956, KDKA's studios had relocated from the Grant 
Building to 1 Gateway Center, joining KDKA-TV. By 1960, KDKA added more 
rock and roll music, as competitor KQV made ratings gains. "Your Pal" Pallan 
played hit songs and KDKA carried the sounds of screaming crowds as the 
Beatles arrived in Pittsburgh in 1964. The major exponent of rock on KDKA 
radio was disc jockey Clark Race, who also hosted "Dance Party" on KDKA-TV, 
a local version of Dick Clark's American Bandstand. Other artists featured 
on the station included The Four Seasons, The Vogues, Lou Christie (the 
latter two Pittsburgh-bred), The Beach Boys, The Hollies, The Supremes, 
Four Tops, and The Turtles. After 11 years of providing early morning entertainment, 
Rege Cordic moved to KNX in Los Angeles. His replacements were Pallan and 
Bob Trow, whose "Pallan and Trow, Two For the Show" program retained some 
of the Cordic & Company flavor. Two and a half years later, in April 1968, 
Jack Bogut moved from Salt Lake City to become the KDKA morning host, a 
position he held for 15 years. One of Bogut's most memorable contributions 
to KDKA was his introduction to Western Pennsylvania of the word Farkleberry, 
which is now a staple of the annual Children's Hospital fund-raising campaign. 
Other notable personalities included Big Jack Armstrong, Bob Shannon and 
Terry McGovern; the latter two would go on to enjoy lucrative careers in 
the Film/TV industry as actors. Also in the 1960s, KDKA reported numerous 
important events, including the Pirates' improbable 1960 World Series win. 
In local news reporting, the station pioneered with "on the scene" reports 
of Mike Levine, the peripatetic former newspaper man whose mobile-unit 
broadcasts from Tri-State-area covering fires, floods, bank robberies, 
and coal mine disasters won numerous journalism awards. His nightly "Contact" 
show (later "Open Mike") was KDKA's initial venture into the news-based 
talk radio format that would become the station's basic offering. In the 
summer of 1969, KDKA debuted overnight talk with Jack Wheeler, launching 
an anything-goes talk show that ran from midnight to 6 a.m. six nights 
a week. By the early 1970s, KDKA adopted more of an adult contemporary 
format, consisting of rock and roll hits of the 1960s plus soft rock, with 
artists such as America, The Carpenters, Doobie Brothers, Paul Simon, Dawn, 
and Neil Diamond becoming core offerings. The morning show featured less 
music and an increased news and commercial content. In 1973, KDKA revamped 
its "Party Line" timeslot, with the bombastic John Cigna moving over from 
WJAS to anchor the nighttime talk program and urge listeners to "buy American!" 
In 1974 Perry Marshall replaced Wheeler in the overnight timeslot, which 
became known as the "Marshall's Office". In 1975, Roy Fox debuted as the 
6 to 9 pm talk host. By now, KDKA had become a full service adult contemporary 
radio station. In 1979, newsman Fred Honsberger began working at KDKA, 
and went on to host a successful evening talk show plus a top-rated afternoon 
drive program. Also in 1979, KDKA covered the Three Mile Island nuclear 
accident, first reported by Harrisburg newsman Mike Pintek. By 1982, Pintek 
joined the KDKA News staff and later became one of the station's most popular 
talk hosts, although he was let go at the end of 2005 as part of a programming 
overhaul. In 2007, he became the host of Night Talk on the Pittsburgh Cable 
News Channel. As of January 2009, Pintek was rehired at KDKA to host a 
talk show in the 6pm to 10 pm timeslot, and, following the death of Fred 
Honsberger, took over the 12 PM-3 PM timeslot as of January 2010. On July 
23, 1982, KDKA claims to have become the world's first radio station to 
broadcast in AM stereo although experimental AM stereo broadcasts were 
conducted as early as the 1960s on Mexico's XETRA 690.[58] Throughout the 
1980s, KDKA continued an information and news intensive adult contemporary 
music format, playing four to six songs per hour at drive times and 10 
to 12 songs an hour during middays and weekends. At night, the station 
continued its talk format. The station won four Associated Press Joe Snyder 
awards for outstanding overall news service in Pennsylvania. KDKA eventually 
made the decision to switch from a full-service format that included music 
to one that was an exclusively news/talk. The changeover occurred at noon 
on April 10, 1992, when Larry Richert played the last song aired as a regular 
part of KDKA programming: Don McLean's "American Pie", signifying that, 
for KDKA, this was "the day the music died".[59] Rush Limbaugh was added 
to the noon to 3:00 p.m. timeslot, and all-news blocks were added in the 
6:00 to 9:00 a.m. and the 4:00 to 6:00 p.m. timeslots. In 1997, Bob DeWitt 
was hired as news director, serving for two years. His award-winning team 
included Bob Kopler, Dave James, Bob Kmetz, Barbara Boylan, Mike Whitely 
and Beth Trapani. Westinghouse merged with CBS at the start of 1996, so 
KDKA would soon become an Infinity Broadcasting station, after that chain 
(a previously separate entity from CBS and Westinghouse) was acquired by 
Westinghouse. Westinghouse would later turn itself into CBS Corporation 
in 1997. Viacom bought CBS Corporation in 1999, but five years later transformed 
itself into CBS Corporation, thus making KDKA now a part of CBS Radio. 
On October 1, 2006, after 52 seasons, KDKA aired its final Pirates game, 
with the Pirates beating the Reds 1-0. On April 26, 2007, the East Pittsburgh 
building that was the birthplace for KDKA was razed to make way for an 
industrial complex. On Tuesday, November 2, 2010, KDKA celebrated its 90th 
anniversary with election coverage, as it had every first Tuesday in November 
since its debut in 1920. The 90th anniversary celebration was primarily 
sponsored by Westinghouse Electric Company, a nuclear power company with 
a history dating back to the original Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing 
Company. The radio station's studios were located at One Gateway Center 
in Pittsburgh from 1956[60] until 2010. That building still houses the 
studios of KDKA-TV. The radio station studios were moved to CBS's combined 
radio facility on Holiday Drive in Green Tree. In July 2008, CBS Corporation 
announced some of its radio stations were available for sale and the company 
would concentrate on its operations in major markets.[61] With Pittsburgh 
ranked as the 24th largest market by Arbitron there was speculation KDKA 
and its three sister stations, KDKA-FM, WDSY-FM and WBZZ-FM would be sold. 
The speculation was incorrect and the stations were not on the auction 
block.[62] Trying to achieve a consensus on KDKA's precise status as a 
broadcasting pioneer, especially in relation to other, earlier stations, 
has been a source of disagreement for nearly a century. This often includes 
semantic complexities involving carefully crafted definitions and qualifiers 
— including "first", "oldest", "scheduled", "commercial", and "real" — 
in an attempt to make sense of a fluid and not always well documented era. 
Complicating the issue is the fact that the U.S. government did not have 
a formal definition of broadcasting, or any specific regulations, until 
December 1, 1921, when a broadcast service category was essentially grafted 
onto the existing Limited Commercial license category, as an authorization 
that was granted to a select group of designated stations. (A license class 
dating back to 1912, not all Limited Commercial stations were authorized 
to make broadcasts.) Before these new regulations were adopted, there were 
no prohibitions restricting broadcasting stations from operating under 
amateur or experimental licenses. A specific "broadcasting station" license 
did not exist until one was created by the Federal Radio Commission in 
1927. In 1923 the Department of Commerce stated that "The first broadcasting 
license was issued in September, 1921",[63] a reference to the September 
15, 1921 Limited Commercial license issued to WBZ in Springfield, Massachusetts, 
which appears to be the first to state that the station would be used exclusively 
for broadcasting, transmitting on 360 meters, which would become the standard 
"entertainment" wavelength designated by the December 1, 1921 regulations. 
As noted earlier, it was only KDKA's second, November 7, 1921 license, 
that included a reference that it would be used for broadcasting in addition 
to company-wide point-to-point communication. This led to some early Commerce 
Department information listing WBZ as the first broadcasting station, and 
KDKA as the fourth.[64] The best known priority dispute has been between 
KDKA and WWJ in Detroit, Michigan, a controversy in which some neutral 
observers have carefully tried to avoid being entangled. This was emphasized 
when the September 3, 1945 issue of Time magazine included a report that 
the National Association of Broadcasters (NAB) had recently sided with 
WWJ's "claim to being the world's first commercial radio station", by concluding 
that KDKA "was ten and a half weeks younger".[65] This assertion brought 
a quick denial by NAB President J. Harold Ryan, who informed the magazine 
that it had misconstrued some informational material sent out by the association, 
and: "It was not the intention, nor is it the prerogative of the NAB to 
attempt to decide the relative claims of two pioneer broadcasting stations."[66] 
It appears that Westinghouse officials were initially unaware that, in 
addition to Frank Conrad's 8XK, other stations had been making regular 
news and entertainment broadcasts. This was reflected in the slogan, repeated 
each week in Westinghouse's Radio Broadcasting News publication beginning 
with the January 1, 1922 debut issue, that "Westinghouse Station KDKA was 
first to give regular Broadcasting Programs".[67] However, research has 
uncovered several challenges to this broad declaration. In the United States, 
Charles "Doc" Herrold, in San Jose, California, was found to have begun 
test transmissions in 1909, which were followed by weekly concerts beginning 
in 1912.[68] In addition, beginning in late 1916, Lee de Forest's "Highbridge 
station" (2XG) in New York City also began transmitting regularly scheduled 
programs,[69] including a comprehensive November 7, 1916 election night 
broadcast. These programs were suspended in April 1917 with the entry of 
the United States into World War I, but after the war the 2XG broadcasts 
resumed in late 1919. The broadcasts were again suspended in early 1920, 
the result of a run-in with the local Radio Inspector.[70] At this point 
the station's transmitter was transferred to San Francisco, and relicensed 
as 6XC, the "California Theater Station", which around April 1920 inaugurated 
a wide-ranging selection of daily broadcasts. The next year de Forest wrote 
that this was the "first radio-telephone station devoted solely" to broadcasting 
to the public.[71] The station was relicensed as KZY late in 1921, then 
deleted in early 1923. In 1946, a KDKA promotional pamphlet, issued under 
the name of the station's general manager, Joseph E. Baudino, stated that 
Westinghouse's November 2, 1920 election day effort marked "the world's 
first regularly scheduled broadcast".[72] However, Baudino later modified 
this opinion, and as the lead author, along with John Kittross, of a 1977 
review of "Broadcasting's Oldest Stations", now concluded that the "first 
U.S. radio broadcasting station" was in fact Charles Herrold's San Jose 
station, dating to 1912.[73] Still, while allowing for the possibility 
that "new data will be found",[74] the authors credited Baudino's former 
station, 8ZZ/KDKA, as being the "oldest [surviving] station in the nation". 
Herrold's San Jose broadcasts had been suspended due to the World War I 
prohibition of civilian radio stations, and he did not return to the airwaves 
until May 1921.[75] His experimental station was relicensed in December 
1921 as KQW, which later moved to San Francisco and changed its call letters 
to KCBS in 1949. Baudino and Kittross argued that this post-World War I 
gap disqualified KCBS from "oldest station" consideration, something neither 
KQW nor KCBS has agreed with, as program schedules for KQW appearing in 
1925 included the slogan "Pioneer Broadcasting Station of the World",[76] 
and in 2009 KCBS celebrated its 100th birthday with a yearlong series of 
events throughout the Bay Area, including the public dedication of a plaque 
commemorating the "Centennial Celebration of the World's First Broadcasting 
Station".[77] At the same time, KCBS adopted the slogan "The World's First 
Broadcasting Station". Baudino and Kittross also concluded that there was 
no significant link between the daily broadcasts introduced on August 20, 
1920 by the Detroit News' "Detroit News Radiophone", as amateur station 
8MK, and its subsequent transformation into WBL and later WWJ, something 
with which the newspaper stoutly disagreed: for example, in a 1934 advertisement, 
WWJ, still owned by the Detroit News, declared itself "America's Pioneer 
Broadcasting Station".[78] A case has also been made for the primacy of 
the University of Wisconsin's WHA in Madison, Wisconsin, which evolved 
from an earlier experimental authorization, 9XM. In 1958 a plaque was installed 
on the university campus crediting "9XM-WHA" as "The Oldest Station in 
the Nation", including the statement that the station began "broadcasting 
on a regular schedule in 1919".[79] However, Baudino and Kittross found 
no evidence of organized broadcasting prior to the inauguration of spoken-word 
weather forecasts on January 3, 1921, and in 2007 a comprehensive station 
history compiled by Randall Davidson came to the same conclusion.[80] An 
additional qualifier sometimes proposed for KDKA is that it was the first 
"commercial" station, but there is no consensus here either, as a 1945 
advertisement for WWJ claimed that station was the one where "commercial 
radio began".[81] (WWJ and KDKA were both initially commercial-free, and 
did not start to accept advertising until the mid-1920s, so in this case 
"commercial" appears to just mean under the control of a commercial enterprise.) 
Additionally, Westinghouse's operation of KDKA's broadcasting service under 
a "Limited Commercial" license appears to have been merely a side-effect 
of the fact that it had previously been determined that type of authorization 
was required for KDKA's original role, of providing private point-to-point 
communication between company installations. ¹ Clear-channel stations with 
