Keith David Williams (born June 4, 1956), known professionally as Keith 
David, is an American film, television and voice actor and singer. He is 
best known for his co-starring role as Childs alongside Kurt Russell in 
John Carpenter's The Thing. He has acted in many mainstream films, such 
as Crash, There's Something About Mary, Barbershop and Men at Work. He 
had memorable roles in numerous cult favorites, including John Carpenter's 
films The Thing (as Childs) and They Live (as Armitage), the Riddick films 
Pitch Black and The Chronicles of Riddick (as the Imam), General Kimsey 
in Armageddon, King in Oliver Stone's Platoon, and Big Tim in Darren Aronofsky's 
Requiem for a Dream. David last starred as Elroy Patashnik in the sixth 
season of the comedy series, Community.[1] In 2016, he began starring as 
Bishop James Greenleaf in the Oprah Winfrey Network drama series, Greenleaf. 
His Emmy Award-winning voice-over career includes work as the narrator 
of numerous Ken Burns films such as The War. Characters that he has voiced 
include the Arbiter Thel 'Vadam in Halo 2, Halo 3 and Halo 5, Goliath on 
the Disney series Gargoyles, Spawn/Al Simmons on Todd McFarlane's Spawn 
which aired on HBO, David Anderson in the Mass Effect series, the Decepticon 
Barricade in Transformers: The Game, Julius Little in Saints Row, Saints 
Row 2, and Saints Row IV (as well as making a major guest appearance in 
the last game voicing himself), Sgt. Foley in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 
2, Dr. Facilier in The Princess and the Frog, the Flame King in Adventure 
Time, and Chaos in the English versions of Dissidia Final Fantasy and Dissidia 
012 Final Fantasy. David was born in Harlem and raised in Corona, Queens, 
both in New York City. His mother, Dolores (née Dickenson), was a manager 
at New York Telephone, and his father, Lester Williams, worked as a director 
of payroll operations.[2][3] He initially intended to become an actor after 
playing the Cowardly Lion in a school production of The Wizard of Oz, and 
went on to study at Manhattan's High School of Performing Arts. He attended 
the Juilliard School's Drama Division (1975–1979, Group 8)[4] where he 
graduated with a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree in 1979.[5] In 1980–81, David 
honed his craft touring the country with John Houseman's The Acting Company 
in productions of A Midsummer Night's Dream and Samuel Beckett's Waiting 
for Godot. Less than two years later, he went on to star as Childs, opposite 
Kurt Russell in John Carpenter's The Thing, and his lengthy on-screen career 
had begun. In the 1980s run of Mister Rogers' Neighborhood, he portrayed 
Keith the Southwood Carpenter in the Neighborhood of Make-Believe segments. 
He also played Keith, the game coin collector in an episode where Rogers 
and a small child learn to play the arcade game Donkey Kong. He went on 
to appear in films such as Oliver Stone's Platoon, The Quick and the Dead, 
They Live (reuniting with The Thing director, John Carpenter), Men at Work, 
Marked for Death, and Stars and Bars. He played Kirby in the 1995 film 
Dead Presidents, and he appeared in the 1995 Spike Lee's film Clockers. 
He followed this up with roles in other films such as Volcano, Armageddon, 
There's Something About Mary, Pitch Black, Barbershop, Agent Cody Banks, 
The Chronicles of Riddick, Crash, ATL, Delta Farce and First Sunday. He 
portrayed "Father" in the romantic comedy action film Mr. and Mrs. Smith. 
At the same time, he has appeared in numerous independent films including 
the critically acclaimed Requiem for a Dream, playing the role of Big Tim. 
He has also appeared extensively in television productions since the 1980s 
and as a regular character Lieutenant Williams on the short-lived television 
series The Job. He was a regular on another shoot made for ABC entitled 
The Big House in 2004. David portrayed Detective Jim Crenshaw in the 2010 
horror film Chain Letter.[6] In 2010, David was cast as Max Malini for 
the NBC television series The Cape.[7] On April 18, 2011, Keith appeared 
in the 21st episode of season one of Hawaii Five-0 as criminal tycoon Jimmy 
Cannon. In 2012, he appeared in the horror film Smiley and the science-fiction 
drama Cloud Atlas. In 2013, David appeared in the controversial drama Boiling 
Pot which is based on true events of racism. In 2014, David portrayed Command 
Sergeant Major Donald Cody in the Fox comedy series Enlisted.[8] Later 
in 2014 David was cast as Elroy Patashnik in the sixth season of the sitcom 
Community.[1] In 2015, David was cast in the leading role alongside Lynn 
Whitfield in the Oprah Winfrey Network drama series, Greenleaf.[9] David 
was the voice of Goliath from Gargoyles, the title character in the Spawn 
animated series and Lemuel Kane in Archer. In the English dub of Princess 
Mononoke, David played the narrator and Okkoto. He played the role of Mama 
in the English dub of 3x3 Eyes. He provided the voice for the character 
Decker in the role-playing video game Fallout and the voice for the character 
Vhailor in Planescape: Torment. He provided the voice of the Arbiter for 
the video game Halo 2, released in 2004; later, he reprised that role in 
the Xbox 360 follow-up Halo 3. He portrayed the character again in Halo: 
The Master Chief Collection and also in Halo 5: Guardians, released in 
2014 and 2015 respectively. He played the role of Captain David Anderson 
in BioWare's Mass Effect series.[citation needed] David did voice work 
in the Xbox 360 title Saints Row playing gang leader Julius. He is also 
heard on the intro of several Ice Cube projects, including Westside Connection's 
2003 release Terrorist Threats, Cube's 2008 solo album Raw Footage, Cube's 
2010 solo album I Am the West, and he narrated the documentary Beef II, 
which also featured Ice Cube.[citation needed] He provides the voice for 
the UPS "What Can Brown Do for You" commercials. His voice can be heard 
in the Justice League cartoons. He has done voice work for early Adult 
Swim commercials for Inuyasha.[10] He has worked with documentary filmmaker 
Ken Burns several times, narrating Burns' Jazz, Mark Twain, The War, Unforgivable 
Blackness: The Rise and Fall of Jack Johnson, and Jackie Robinson. David 
won the Emmy Award for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance for his work 
in the The War and Unforgivable Blackness. He performs the narration duties 
in the BBC documentary, World War II: Behind Closed Doors.[11] The 2004 
PBS documentary Ancient Refuge in the Holy Land[12] and the 2005 History 
Channel documentary Crusades: Crescent & the Cross focusing on the medieval 
Crusades were both narrated by him, as well as the 2003 National Geographic 
documentary Inside Mecca. He later parodied his documentary work by narrating 
the 2012 episode of Community, "Pillows and Blankets", a mockumentary revolving 
around a pillow fight between rival blanket forts.[citation needed] David 
has done voice-over work for many other documentaries including several 
for National Geographic and the documentary Comic Book Superheroes Unmasked 
for the History Channel. He replaced Paul Winfield as narrator for the 
A&E show City Confidential, taking over after Winfield's death in 2004. 
He voiced the trailer for the movie Primeval, which was released in the 
United States on January 12, 2007.[citation needed] David provided the 
voice of police detective Alex Cross for the audiobook versions of three 
novels by James Patterson: Cat and Mouse (1997), Pop Goes the Weasel (1999) 
and Roses are Red (2000). Other voice roles include Bebe Proud Clone from 
The Proud Family Movie, Atlas from the Teen Titans animated series, the 
lone renegade male gorilla Tublat in The Legend of Tarzan, and the Decepticon 
Barricade in Transformers: The Game.[citation needed] He did the voices 
of the Black Cat in Coraline, Sergeant Foley in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 
2, Dr. Facilier in The Princess and the Frog, and the Big Man for The Spectacular 
Spider-Man episode "Survival of the Fittest".[citation needed] On May 25, 
2008, he narrated Kansas City's Celebration at the Station, a Memorial 
Day service held annually at the World War I Memorial across from Union 
Station. During the ceremony, he announced the attendance of Frank W. Buckles, 
the last living veteran of World War I. He was the voice of Frederick Douglass 
in the third episode of the PBS documentary God in America: How Religious 
Liberty Shaped America in 2010.[citation needed] David returned in the 
Saints Row series' newest title Saints Row IV, and voices himself and Julius 
as well. It is mentioned repeatedly during SR4, however, that he and Julius 
share more than a passing resemblance, much to the chagrin of Keith (the 
character).[citation needed] He is the narrator of the History Channel 
series The Bible which premiered on March 3, 2013.[13] In 1992, David received 
a Tony Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor in a Musical for his 
performance in Jelly's Last Jam. David received raves for his Shakespeare 
work on stage in Central Park, New York City. In 1995, he played the lead 
as Floyd "Schoolboy" Barton in August Wilson's Seven Guitars on Broadway.[citation 
needed] In May 2006, he appeared in the musical Hot Feet on Broadway in 
New York. David appeared in the 2013 revival of August Wilson's Joe Turner's 
Come and Gone at the Mark Taper Theater in Los Angeles. Directed by Phylicia 
Rashad, he played the part of innkeeper Seth Holly.[citation needed] His 
performance in Ebony Repertory Theatre's 2014 Paul Robeson by Phillip Hayes 
Dean[14] previewed Wednesday, March 12, 2014[15] and opened on Friday, 
March 21, 2014. From April 21, 2015 to May 10, 2015, Keith David starred 
as “Dolomite“ in the Off-Broadway play ToasT. The play (produced by Lemon 
Andersen and co-starred Hill Harper) was set in the Attica Prison around 
the time of its 1971 prison riot and told of the lives of its prisoners 
using poetic prose.[16] He has married twice. He has one son from his first 
