Keith Hernandez (born October 20, 1953) is a former Major League Baseball 
first baseman who played the majority of his career with the St. Louis 
Cardinals and New York Mets. Hernandez was a five-time All-Star who shared 
the 1979 NL MVP award, and won two World Series titles, one each with the 
Cardinals and Mets. A contact hitter with a .296 career average and a "great" 
walk rate of 12.5%,[1][2] Hernandez's career hitting productivity was 31% 
above league average, by wRC+.[1] For his defensive work he received Gold 
Glove awards in eleven consecutive seasons, the most by any first baseman 
in baseball history. Hernandez retired as an active player after spending 
one year with the Cleveland Indians in 1990. Since 1999, he has served 
as a television broadcaster for Mets games. Hernandez was born in San Francisco, 
and grew up in Pacifica and Millbrae, California. He attended Terra Nova 
High School in Pacifica during his freshman year, then transferred to Capuchino 
High School in nearby San Bruno for the remainder of his high school years. 
Hernandez was a star athlete in high school and graduated in 1971. One 
of his teammates at Terra Nova High School was future major league pitcher 
Bob McClure, who had also played Little League baseball with him when they 
were younger.[3] (Hernandez got a game-tying two-RBI single off McClure 
in Game 7 of the 1982 World Series on his 29th birthday; the Cards would 
go on to win the game and the Series.) Given his surname, and the fact 
that he is from California, it was incorrectly assumed that Hernandez was 
of Mexican descent, and he was nicknamed Mex by his teammates. In actuality, 
his father's ancestry is Spanish and his mother's is Scots-Irish, as he 
explained during a Mets broadcast on SNY. Hernandez was perceived as having 
poor attitude issues because he sat out his entire senior year of high 
school due to a dispute with a coach. He played briefly at the College 
of San Mateo, a local community college, before he was drafted by the St. 
Louis Cardinals in the 41st round of the 1971 Major League Baseball draft 
as the 783rd player selected.[4] He batted and threw left-handed, and through 
most of his career was listed as being 6' tall (1.83m) and 195 lbs. (88.5 kg).[5] 
During his childhood, Hernandez's brother bought a book on Civil War history. 
His passion for Civil War history landed him guest spots on KMOX radio 
when with the Cardinals and was featured in the New York Times when he 
was with the Mets. Hernandez's batting average hovered around .250 for 
most of his minor league career, until his promotion to the Tulsa Oilers 
in the second half of the 1973 season. With the Cardinals' triple-A affiliate, 
Hernandez batted .333 with five home runs and a .525 slugging percentage. 
The following season, Hernandez's average jumped to .351, earning him a 
promotion to the big league club. He made his major league debut at Candlestick 
Park on August 30, 1974, against the San Francisco Giants, going 1-2 with 
two walks, and earning his first major league RBI with a single in the 
ninth.[6] Following the season, the Cards traded first baseman Joe Torre 
to the New York Mets for Tommy Moore and Ray Sadecki to make room for their 
budding young prospect. Hernandez ended up splitting 1975 between Tulsa 
and the Cardinals. Though his fielding was spectacular (.996 fielding percentage 
with only two errors in 507 chances), Hernandez struggled with major league 
pitching, batting only .250 with three home runs and twenty RBIs. Hernandez 
wore uniform number 18 for the first two years of his career. In 1976, 
he switched to number 37, insisting that his uniform number end with a 
"7" in honor of Mickey Mantle (with whom he shared a birthday). While Hernandez 
became more comfortable with his bat, he was always recognized as a fielder 
first, snatching his first Gold Glove Award away from perennial winner 
Steve Garvey in 1978. In 1979, however, Hernandez's bating improved markedly 
as he led the league with a .344 batting average, 48 doubles, and 116 runs 
scored, and went on to share the National League's Most Valuable Player 
Award with Willie Stargell. For the first and only time in major league 
history two players received the same number of points from the Baseball 
Writers' Association of America and shared the MVP award for that year. 
From there, Hernandez became a perennial .300 hitter, and one of the top 
stars in the National League. His Cardinals won the 1982 World Series, 
defeating the Milwaukee Brewers in seven games. In Game six, Hernandez 
and Cardinal catcher Darrell Porter hit home runs in a 13-1 St. Louis victory. 
Hernandez also contributed eight runs batted in during the seven-game World 
Series. After multiple disagreements with Cardinal management, most notably 
manager Whitey Herzog, Hernandez was traded to the Mets on June 15, 1983, 
for pitchers Neil Allen and Rick Ownbey. Herzog said he felt that Hernandez 
had become a cancer on his team and never regretted the trade.[7] The Mets 
had retired number 37 for former manager Casey Stengel, so Hernandez switched 
to number 17 upon joining the club, which he wore for the remainder of 
his career. As a result of this trade, Hernandez went from a World Series 
champion to a team that narrowly avoided a hundred losses (68-94), and 
consistently finished at the bottom of the National League East. Hernandez, 
however, was determined to prove Herzog wrong, helping to fuel a rivalry 
between the two teams in the mid-1980s. Under new manager Davey Johnson, 
the 1984 Mets had their first winning season since 1976, finishing 90-72, 
and six games ahead of the Cardinals in the NL East (6.5 games behind division 
winner Chicago Cubs). Hernandez finished second in the NL Most Valuable 
Player voting behind Cubs second baseman Ryne Sandberg, and emerged as 
the Captain of the Mets' young core of ballplayers that included 1983 and 
1984 Rookie of the Year Darryl Strawberry and Dwight Gooden, respectively. 
Hernandez had such a strong and accurate throwing arm that, as a result, 
the Mets re-routed their relays through him. Due to his quick instincts, 
Hernandez was also able to play farther off first base than other first 
basemen, allowing the other infielders to play farther to their right. 
Hernandez played so aggressively at first base that he occasionally discouraged 
opponents to bunt merely by reputation. Pete Rose, when he managed the 
Cincinnati Reds, compared bunting against Hernandez to "driving the lane 
against Bill Russell." Astros manager Hal Lanier said the combination of 
Hernandez at first and any one of three Mets pitchers— Ron Darling, Roger 
McDowell or Jesse Orosco— made bunting against the Mets "near impossible", 
and Cubs manager Jim Frey said he wouldn't ask most pitchers to bunt against 
the Mets. "You're just asking for a forceout at second, and now you've 
got your pitcher running the bases", he said. Hernandez also revolutionized 
the position— until umpires disallowed what he did— by taking pickoff throws 
while essentially squatting in foul territory so that he could make tags 
to his right more readily. Positioning oneself in foul territory is now 
illegal, according to official baseball rules, which state that all defensive 
players except the catcher must be positioned in fair territory while the 
ball is pitched. In 1985, Hernandez's previous cocaine use (and distribution 
of the drug to other players),[8] which had been the subject of persistent 
rumors and the chief source of friction between Hernandez and Cardinals 
manager Whitey Herzog,[citation needed] became a matter of public record 
as a result of the Pittsburgh trial of drug dealer Curtis Strong. MLB Commissioner 
Peter Ueberroth found that Hernandez was among seven players who had used 
cocaine and been involved in its distribution. The players received season-long 
suspensions, that were commuted on condition that they donated ten percent 
of their base salaries to drug-abuse programs, submitted to random drug 
testing, and contributed 100 hours of drug-related community service.[8][9] 
In the meantime, the Mets and Cardinals became embroiled in a heated rivalry 
atop the National League East, with Hernandez and newly acquired All-star 
catcher Gary Carter leading the charge for the Mets. The season came down 
to the wire as the Mets won 98 games that season, however, they narrowly 
lost the division to a Cardinals team that won 101 games. The Mets had 
three players finish in the top ten in NL MVP balloting that season (Gooden 
4th, Carter 6th and Hernandez 8th). Meanwhile, the "Redbirds" placed four 
players in the top ten (Tommy Herr 5th, John Tudor tied Hernandez at 8th, 
Jack Clark 10th, and winner Willie McGee), as well as having the eleventh-place 
finisher (Vince Coleman). Hernandez set a record for game-winning RBIs 
in 1985 with 24, a statistic that was only official from 1980–1988 (the 
previous record was 22 by the Chicago White Sox's Harold Baines in 1983). 
His career total is 129, which is also a record. Hernandez credits his 
father, who played ball with Stan Musial when they were both in the Navy 
during World War II, for helping him out of a batting slump in 1985.[citation 
needed] His father would observe his at-bats on TV and note that when Keith 
was hitting well, he could see both the "1" and the "7" on his uniform 
on his back as he began to stride into the pitch. Not seeing both numbers 
meant Keith was bailing out on inside pitches, trying too hard to pull 
the ball, and vulnerable to outside fastballs or outside breaking pitches. 
Hernandez and the Mets would not be denied in 1986, winning 108 games and 
taking the National League East convincingly by 21.5 games over the Philadelphia 
Phillies. Hernandez hit .310 with 83 RBI. The Mets won the 1986 World Series 
in seven games over the Boston Red Sox. Hernandez batted only .231, and 
recorded the second out in the now legendary tenth inning of game six of 
that World Series. On the Mets' World Champion team in 1986, Carter and 
Hernandez finished third and fourth, respectively, in NL MVP balloting. 
Given his "Mickey Mantlesque" approach to playing baseball in New York 
City, and the celebrity status that comes with it, Hernandez became the 
poster-boy for the "party hard; play harder" Mets of the '80s.[citation 
needed] In 1987, Davey Johnson named Hernandez the first team captain in 
franchise history. A season after the "C" was added to Hernandez's uniform, 
Carter was named co-captain. In 1988, Hernandez won his eleventh and final 
Gold Glove, and led his team to another division crown. The heavily favored 
Mets, however, lost to the Los Angeles Dodgers in the 1988 National League 
Championship Series. Both Hernandez and Carter were in the twilights of 
their careers as back, knee and hamstring problems limited Hernandez to 
only 95 games. Carter, meanwhile, batted .242 for the season, and famously 
struggled to hit his 300th career home run. Hernandez's batting average 
fell to .233 in only 75 games for the 1989 Mets. The Mets chose not to 
re-sign him after his contract ran out at the close of the 1989 season, 
and on November 13, he was granted free agency. A day later, the Mets released 
Carter. Eleven different Mets players have worn his number 17 in the 16 
seasons since Hernandez left, most notably pitcher David Cone. In 1991, 
Cone switched from 44 to 17 in tribute to Hernandez.[10] Former teammates 
Ron Darling, Bob Ojeda and Roger McDowell have also worn number 17 in tribute 
to Hernandez for teams they played for after leaving the Mets. Hernandez 
signed with the Cleveland Indians for the 1990 season. He appeared in 45 
games for the team, batting only .200 with one home run and eight RBIs. 
He retired at the end of the season. Hernandez has written four books, 
If at First: A Season With the Mets (his diary of the 1985 New York Mets 
season), Pure Baseball: Pitch by Pitch for the Advanced Fan, Shea Good-Bye: 
The Untold Inside Story of the Historic 2008 Season, and Murder at Shea: 
A Baseball Murder Mystery for Kids, a young-adult novel about a fictional 
Met solving a murder. "Pure Baseball" gives fans a detailed pitch-by-pitch 
player's look into baseball strategy. On September 27, 2012, Hernandez 
had his familiar mustache shaved off for charity.[11] Hernandez batted 
over .300 seven times in his career, and led the National League in runs 
scored (1979 & 1980), doubles (1979), on-base percentage (1980) and walks 
(1986) throughout his career. He also won 11 Gold Glove awards for his 
glovework at first base, setting a Major League record for the position 
that still stands. However, he never received enough support from the Baseball 
Writers' Association of America (BBWAA) to be elected to the Baseball Hall 
of Fame. In 2004, after nine years on the ballot, he received votes from 
fewer than 5% of the writers, thus ending his eligibility. Hernandez has 
been eligible for consideration for induction by the Veterans Committee 
since 2011 (twenty years after his retirement) but has yet to be inducted. 
It's been said that the two issues that have hampered him was his lack 
of hustle, mainly as a Cardinal and his public history of drug abuse. Some 
also say that as a first baseman, he did not display the power numbers 
expected of the position. He was inducted into the New York Mets Hall of 
Fame in 1997, and was voted Mets' all-time first baseman by fans in celebration 
of the team's 40th anniversary in 2002. Celebrating the 50th anniversary 
of the Mets, Hernandez was selected as the Mets all-time first baseman 
by a panel of sportswriters and broadcasters that included Marty Noble, 
Mike Lupica, Gary Cohen, Howie Rose among others. In the event held on 
June 17, 2012, Hernandez recalled how he first was upset by the trade to 
New York but soon acknowledged it as a refreshing change and said it "reenergized" 
him because of the "young talent, young guys that were hungry". Hernandez 
guest starred as himself in "The Boyfriend", a two-part 1992 episode of 
the sitcom Seinfeld. In the episode, Hernandez dated Julia Louis-Dreyfus's 
character Elaine Benes, and Jerry Seinfeld developed the male-bonding equivalent 
of a crush on him. A subplot of the episode was a pastiche of the movie 
JFK and featured a parody of the "Magic Bullet Theory" featured in that 
movie. According to the show, on June 14, 1987, the Mets were playing the 
Philadelphia Phillies at Shea Stadium, and Hernandez committed an error 
in the ninth inning, allowing the Phillies to score five runs and costing 
the Mets the game (in reality, the Mets defeated the Pittsburgh Pirates 
on the road on that date; Hernandez played, but did not commit an error).[12] 
Hernandez exited the player's gate, where Kramer (Michael Richards) and 
Newman (Wayne Knight) were waiting, and Newman heckled Hernandez with "Nice 
game, pretty boy!" Kramer and Newman then spent the next five years claiming 
that Hernandez had spat on them, when in fact they learned that it was 
really Roger McDowell – a "second spitter", just as Jerry had postulated.[13] 
Hernandez also appeared in the final episode of Seinfeld, which aired in 
1998. Hernandez makes about $3,000 a year in royalties checks from the 
show as of 2015.[14] ESPN columnist Bill Simmons coined the phrase "having 
a Keith Hernandez Moment" in reference to the point in Hernandez' Seinfeld 
appearance where he recovers from a moment of self-doubt by simply reminding 
himself: "I'm Keith Hernandez!"[15] Elaine ultimately dumps Hernandez due 
to him being a smoker. Aside from Seinfeld, Hernandez also appeared in 
a 1994 episode of Law & Order entitled "Wager", and in the movies The Scout 
and The Yards'. He also made an appearance in a 1993 episodes of "Ghostwriter" 
entitled "Building Bridges" Hernandez and Walt Frazier have appeared in 
several television commercials for Just for Men, a men's hair-coloring 
product.[16] Hernandez has appeared in television commercials for Coin 
Galleries of Oyster Bay, a coin dealer located in Oyster Bay, New York. 
In the ads, he says that Coin Galleries is "where you can turn your pot 
of gold into cash." Hernandez, alongside Gary Cohen and Ron Darling, is 
now a baseball commentator serving as an analyst for Mets' television broadcasts 
on SNY and WPIX (WPIX games are produced by SNY). He's become known for 
wry humor and ironic commentary, as well as blunt outspokenness, on the 
mic. A television advertisement for SNY Sports referred to Hernandez's 
mustache by imagining a celebration known as "Keith Hernandez Day" at which 
all attendees are required to wear authentic Keith Hernandez mustaches. 
One sports fan, who refuses to respect the day by wearing a mustache, is 
met by the steely, disapproving stare of Hernandez himself. Hernandez admitted 
that he never wore eyeblack while playing because he had high cheekbones.[17] 
Hernandez felt his mustache reduced glare thereby eliminating the need 
for eyeblack. In 2007 Hernandez won the "Mustache Madness" contest on newsday.com, 
and the American Mustache Institute chose his facial hair as the "top sports 
mustache ever".[16] On April 22, 2006, Hernandez created a controversy 
during the broadcast of a game against the San Diego Padres. After witnessing 
Padres team massage therapist Kelly Calabrese giving San Diego catcher 
Mike Piazza a high five in the dugout after he hit a home run, Hernandez 
said, "Who is the girl in the dugout, with the long hair? What's going 
on here? You have got to be kidding me. Only player personnel in the dugout." 
After Hernandez was informed later in the broadcast that Calabrese was 
a club employee, he maintained his position, stating, "I won't say that 
women belong in the kitchen, but they don't belong in the dugout." After 
the game, San Diego manager Bruce Bochy expressed displeasure with Hernandez's 
comments.[18] Hernandez apologized and alluded to his words being nothing 
more than tomfoolery by saying, "You know I am only teasing. I love you 
gals out there — always have." Hernandez, along with Cohen and Darling, 
had created a website, www.pitchinforagoodcause.org where the net profit 
from the merchandise sold by the website goes to the Cobble Hill Health 
Center, Juvenile Diabetes Research Center, and The Danbury Women's Center. 
Hernandez is also a strong supporter of the Alzheimer's Association, New 
York City Chapter. His mother, Jacqueline Hernandez, lost a nine-year battle 
with Alzheimer's in 1989. Hernandez won two 2010 New York Emmys. He won 
an individual award for Sports Analyst and as part of the SNY Mets broadcast 
team which won the "Live Sports Event: Series 2009 Mets: The Inaugural 
Year of Citi Field" award.[19] On June 17, 2012, the Mets had a Keith Hernandez 
