Keith Max Jackson (born October 18, 1928) is a retired American sportscaster, 
known for his career with ABC Sports (1966–2006), his intelligent yet folksy 
coverage of college football (1952–2006), and his distinctive voice,[2] 
with its deep cadence and operatic tone considered "like Edward R. Murrow 
reporting on World War II, the voice of ultimate authority in college football."[3] 
Born in Georgia at Roopville, Jackson grew up on a farm outside Carrollton, 
near the Alabama state line.[4] The only surviving child in a poor family, 
he grew up listening to sports on the radio.[4] After enlisting and serving 
in the U.S. Marine Corps, he attended Washington State University in Pullman 
under the G.I. Bill.[5] Jackson began as a political science major, but 
he became interested in broadcasting.[6] He graduated in 1954 with a degree 
in speech communications.[7] Though best known for his college football 
broadcasts, Jackson announced numerous other sports for ABC throughout 
his career, including Major League Baseball, NBA basketball, boxing, auto 
racing, PGA Tour golf, the USFL, and the Olympic Games. He briefly worked 
college basketball with Dick Vitale.[8] Jackson also served as the pregame, 
halftime, and postgame anchor for ABC's coverage of Super Bowl XXII in 
1988. During his on-air tenure, he is credited with nicknaming the Rose 
Bowl as "The Grandaddy of them All" and Michigan Stadium as "The Big House".[9] 
Jackson began his career as a broadcaster at Washington State in 1952, 
when he called on radio a game between Stanford and Washington State. He 
then worked for KOMO radio in Seattle, and later for KOMO-TV from 1954 
to 1964 as co-anchor for their first news team (first co-anchor news team 
on the West Coast) covering Seafair hydroplane races, minor league Seattle 
Rainiers baseball games, and University of Washington football games. In 
1958, Jackson became the first American sports announcer to broadcast an 
event from the Soviet Union, a crew race between the Washington Huskies 
and a Soviet team.[10] Despite heavy suspicion and numerous hurdles by 
the Soviet authorities, Jackson and his cohorts were able to cover the 
race: the first ever American sports victory on Russian soil.[11] Jackson 
became a radio news correspondent for ABC News Radio and sports director 
of ABC Radio West in 1964 before joining ABC Sports in 1966.[4] He helped 
Walter Cronkite cover the 1964 Republican National Convention in San Francisco.[10] 
In the early 1960s, Jackson covered American Football League games.[4] 
In 1970, he was chosen to be the first play-by-play announcer on Monday 
Night Football covering the NFL, but he remained in that capacity only 
for the program's first season.[4] Frank Gifford was ABC's initial target, 
but could not get out of his CBS contract until after the 1970 season. 
In 1971, however, Gifford landed the job. Jackson found out that he had 
been taken off the Monday Night package from 38 messages, not from Roone 
Arledge himself. This incident led to some contention between Jackson and 
the brass at ABC.[12] With Gifford's death in August 2015, Jackson became 
the last surviving member of the broadcast teams which called MNF games 
from the early 1970s. Jackson was the lead play-by-play announcer for the 
United States Football League broadcasts on ABC from 1983 to 1985. He was 
paired with Lynn Swann and Tim Brant. He called all three championship 
games in the league's short history. Jackson was involved in the ABC coverage 
of the 1972 Summer Olympics and continued to contribute even when an attack 
by Palestinian terrorists transformed the coverage from that of a typical 
sporting event to a greater international and historical news event.[13] 
In all, he covered a total of 10 Summer and Winter Olympic Games.[10] Jackson 
covered swimming at the 1972 Summer Olympics and track and field at the 
1976 Summer Games. He covered speed-skating during the 1980 Winter Olympics 
featuring Eric Heiden. Interestingly enough, he was offered the position 
of play-by-play for hockey, but turned it down (the position ultimately 
went to Al Michaels). Jackson called speed skating and ski jumping at the 
1984 Winter Olympics. He covered basketball in 1984. He was the weekend 
afternoon host for ABC's final Olympics in 1988 from Calgary.[12] He was 
ABC's lead basketball play-by-play announcer with legendary NBA player 
Bill Russell for four years.[12] Jackson was a regular part of ABC's popular 
Wide World of Sports (WWOS), covering both popular sports and obscure events 
like wrist wrestling.[6] For WWOS he covered Evel Knievel's successful 
jump at Exhibition Stadium, in Toronto, Canada, on August 20, 1974;[14] 
He also handled WWOS' first coverage of boxer Sugar Ray Leonard at the 
North American Continental Boxing Championships on July 26, 1975, who Jackson 
called a young boxer to watch.[15] He teamed with Jackie Stewart and Chris 
Economaki in (WWOS) coverage of auto racing; among the notable events covered 
by Jackson was the 1974 Firecracker 400 at Daytona International Speedway. 
In baseball, Keith Jackson (alongside Tim McCarver) called the famous 16-inning 
sixth game of the 1986 National League Championship Series between the 
New York Mets and Houston Astros. That turned out to be the final Major 
League Baseball game that Jackson would broadcast. Jackson had previously 
broadcast ABC's coverage of the 1977, 1979 and 1981 World Series (Jackson 
split play-by-play duties with Al Michaels for the latter two with Jackson 
calling the games at the American League site), the 1978, 1980, and 1982 
All-Star Game (again, sharing play-by-play duties with Al Michaels for 
the latter two), the 1980 National League Championship Series, the 1976, 
1978 and 1982 American League Championship Series, the 1981 American League 
Division Series between the New York Yankees and Milwaukee Brewers, and 
the 1978 American League East tie-breaker game between the New York Yankees 
and Boston Red Sox alongside Don Drysdale. He also called various Monday 
Night Baseball and other regular-season games for ABC throughout the late 
1970s and early 1980s. Jackson's role on ABC's college football coverage 
occasionally interfered with his postseason baseball commitments.[16] For 
instance, he was unavailable to call Game 1 of the 1976 ALCS because he 
had just finished calling an Oklahoma-Texas college football game for ABC. 
Thus, Bob Uecker filled-in for Jackson for Game 1. In 1978, Jackson called 
another Oklahoma-Texas football game for ABC on the afternoon October 7, 
then flew to New York, arriving just in time to call Game 4 of the ALCS 
that same night. On October 11, 1980, Jackson once again called an Oklahoma-Texas 
football game for ABC in the afternoon, then flew to Houston to call Game 
4 of the NLCS. In the meantime, Don Drysdale filled-in for Jackson on play-by-play 
for the early innings. Starting in 1987, he was the ABC's lead play-by-play 
announcer for college basketball, teaming with analyst Dick Vitale. This 
partnership lasted until 1992.[12] For all his success, he received the 
most acclaim for his coverage of college football. He genuinely enjoyed 
the sport and the purity of it.[12] Jackson began his ABC career at a time 
when television play-by-play announcers did not always have regular analysts. 
He would only once miss working a college season in his over 50 years (when 
he served as play-by-play announcer during the inaugural season of Monday 
Night Football), beginning in 1952.[4] Jackson was joined in the booth 
by Joe Paterno for the 1974 Michigan-Ohio State game in Columbus, while 
Woody Hayes accompanied him for the 1974 Notre Dame-USC game.[17] In his 
many years covering college football, Jackson was paired with a wide variety 
of color commentators, including Jackie Jensen (1966–1967), Lee Grosscup 
(1972–1973), Bud Wilkinson (1969–1975), Ara Parseghian (1975–1980), Frank 
Broyles (1978–1985), Lynn Swann (1984–1985), Tim Brant (1986, 2001–2002), 
Bob Griese (1987–1999), and Dan Fouts (2002–2005). Jackson called 16 Sugar 
Bowls and 15 Rose Bowls during his time at ABC. For many years, he was 
assigned by ABC to the primary national game of the week. His quirky expressions 
such as "Whoa, Nellie!", "Fum-BLE!" and "Hold the phonnnnne!" (following 
a penalty flag) are often the subject of comedic imitation. Though he greatly 
popularized it, Jackson notes that he learned the term "Whoa, Nellie" from 
earlier television announcer Dick Lane.[10] He has often referred to offensive 
and defensive line players as the Big Uglies, or to an individual by saying 
"That guy...is a hus" (horse). Jackson is also credited with coining the 
nickname for Michigan Stadium, The Big House.[18] In the season before 
his first retirement, during what was thought to be his final game at The 
Big House, the Michigan Marching Band's halftime show concluded by spelling 
out "Thanks Keith" across the field. The 111,019 fans turned toward the 
press box, stood up and cheered for the commentator. As a part of the halftime 
event former Michigan coach Bo Schembechler presented Jackson with a jersey 
with "The Big House" across the front and a Michigan football helmet.[18] 
During the mid-'80s, he began falling out of favor with ABC executives 
due to the rise of stars such as Al Michaels and Jim Lampley. Jackson's 
contract expired after the 1986 Sugar Bowl. He had a 3-month "retirement" 
until new ABC Sports President Dennis Swanson personally offered him a 
3-year contract, which he accepted.[12] In the 1990s, Jackson recorded 
videos for the centennial of the Alabama Crimson Tide. In 2006, Jackson 
introduced the Nebraska Cornhuskers' "Tunnel Walk" video on the stadium 
"HuskerVision" screens. This video played before every home game at Memorial 
Stadium in the 2006 season. It was also used for one home game in 2007, 
against Texas A&M. On September 26, 2009, for the 300th consecutive sellout 
of Memorial Stadium, Jackson again provided a video tribute to the fans 
of Nebraska. Jackson's connections to the University of Nebraska remain 
strong. It was Jackson himself that the university contacted when designing 
its new press box facility—Jackson's advice included a recommendation that 
it include a separate restroom inside the broadcast booth, as few if any 
broadcast booths had any suitable restroom facilities. When Jackson broadcast 
the Nebraska-California game the following season (the debut of the Cornhuskers' 
new pressbox), he found a restroom in the booth with a sign reading "The 
Keith Jackson Memorial Bippy." The sign was a joke from Jackson's longtime 
friend, Nebraska sports information director Don Bryant. The name stuck, 
and a permanent plaque was put up next to the restroom door that reads 
"The Keith Jackson Toilet Facility - Dedicated Sept 11, 1999". On November 
3, 2007 during the half time of the Arkansas vs South Carolina game, Jackson 
was present in the press box at Donald W. Reynolds Razorback Stadium as 
the Master of Ceremonies for the retirement of and field dedication to 
longtime ABC color commentator and partner Frank Broyles. Jackson would 
call the 1972 USC Trojans football team the greatest team he ever saw.[19] 
Jackson, who was in his first year in ABC football broadcasting narrating 
the taped highlights of the 1967 USC vs. UCLA football game, declared it 
many years later to be the greatest game he has ever seen.[20] Jackson's 
career was not free of incidents. During the 1978 Gator Bowl, Jackson missed 
Ohio State Head Coach Woody Hayes' infamous punch of Clemson defensive 
lineman Charlie Bauman. Bauman had intercepted a pass and was pushed out 
of bounds on the Ohio State sidelines, and a frustrated Hayes threw a forearm 
at Bauman's throat. Jackson (and color commentator Ara Parseghian) failed 
to see or comment on Hayes' actions, which had been captured from a different 
vantage point on camera. No replay of the actual incident was available 
in the booth during the telecast, as the television crew was working with 
limited replay capability.[21] In addition to this, no sideline reporter 
was available to provide information on the cause of the unsportsmanlike 
penalties that occurred as a result.[22] This led to accusations that Jackson 
was protecting Hayes, who was later fired for the incident.[4] Approaching 
his 70th birthday, Jackson announced his first retirement from college 
football at the end of the 1998 season and his intention to live full-time 
at his home in California. Choosing the first BCS National Championship 
Game as his last broadcast, Jackson called the 1999 National Championship 
at the Fiesta Bowl between Tennessee and Florida State. He concluded the 
program by stating "Tennessee 23, Florida State 16. And so it is done. 
I say goodbye to all of you. God bless and good night."[6] During the game, 
Jackson also verbally recognized that John Ward, Tennessee's long-time 
radio sportscaster, was also broadcasting his last football game for the 
Vols. Ward remained retired; however, Jackson did not. During the final 
minutes of the game Jackson upset many Tennessee fans by focusing his commentary 
on his upcoming retirement rather than the game going on, detracting from 
the historic championship and revelry of the team. Jackson rescinded his 
decision the following fall and began to do a more limited schedule of 
games, teamed with Dan Fouts, Tim Brant, and later Fouts again, almost 
exclusively sticking to venues on the West Coast, closer to his home in 
California. Two notable exceptions were the 2003 Michigan–Ohio State and 
the 2005 Oklahoma vs. Texas football game. Each was the 100th meeting between 
the two archrivals. He strongly hinted that he was interested in retiring 
for good after the 2005 season, telling The New York Times that he was 
feeling his age after 53 seasons and had become upset at the increased 
number of mistakes in his play calling in the last few years.[23] ABC tried 
convincing Jackson to stay, but his decision was firm.[3] He officially 
announced his retirement on April 27, 2006, noting he didn't want to die 
in a stadium parking lot.[8] His last game call was the 2006 Rose Bowl 
featuring Texas vs. Southern California in the BCS National Championship 
Game. The game was the last college football game for ABC Sports as a separate 
corporate division, as it was integrated with ESPN the following summer 
and is now known as ESPN on ABC. In March 2010, the Big Ten Conference 
announced that Jackson would host a 20-episode series called Big 10 Icons 
for the Big Ten Network which would highlight what the Big 10 Conference 
considers the league's top 50 student-athletes. The series was presented 
countdown style, and the top Big Ten student athlete was revealed during 
a program broadcast during the 2011 Big Ten Basketball Tournament.[24] 
In 1999, the National Football Foundation awarded Jackson the Gold Medal 
Award, its highest honor.[25] The same year he was inducted into the Rose 
Bowl Hall of Fame for his many years of contribution to "The Granddaddy 
of Them All".[26] The Edward R. Murrow School of Communication at Washington 
State University awarded their alumnus with the Murrow Award for top leaders 
in the communication industry in 1999;[27] Jackson was a charter member 
of the WSU Foundation, founded in 1979, provided scholarship money to the 
Murrow School and chaired the fund-raising drive for the school's alumni 
center.[6] In 1994, Jackson was inducted into the American Sportscasters 
Association Hall of Fame.[28] On April 24, 1995, he was inducted into the 
National Sportscasters and Sportswriters Association Hall of Fame, having 
won its National Sportscaster of the Year five successive times.[13] The 
American Football Coaches Association awarded him its Amos Alonzo Stagg 
Award in 1993 as an individual "whose services have been outstanding in 
the advancement of the best interests of football."[29] He was the first 
sports announcer to receive the Stagg award.[10] Longtime Penn State Head 
Coach Joe Paterno said of Jackson: "I don't think you could say that there 
is any one person who is not a coach, athletic director or administrator 
who has done more for college football than Keith Jackson".[10] Michigan 
Head Coach Lloyd Carr described Jackson as "a symbol of all the good things 
in college football".[10] The Rose Bowl stadium's radio and TV booths were 
renamed "The Keith Jackson Broadcast Center" in December 2015.[30] Jackson 
has had a minor career as an actor, often either playing himself, as on 
an episode of Coach; or a sportscaster like himself, as in The Fortune 
Cookie (1966), appearing in the first speaking role of the film "Football 
Announcer" as a CBS play-by-play man, a network for whom he never worked. 
He has also appeared in and narrated several sports documentaries. His 
play-by-play of the 1977 World Series is used in the background of the 
Spike Lee film, Summer of Sam (1999). In 2007, he appeared in clips and 
voice on the ESPN original series, The Bronx Is Burning, featuring clips 
from ABC's Monday Night Baseball, and ABC Sports' coverage of the 1977 
World Series. Jackson has appeared in numerous commercials, especially 
in the latter stages of his career. He once parodied his broadcast persona 
for a Bud Light beer commercial, in which he played the officiating minister 
at a wedding, finishing with his famous line, "Whoa, Nellie!" He also appeared 
in commercials for Shoney's, a chain of family-style restaurants well known 
in the Southeast, especially in his native Georgia. Most recently, Jackson 
has appeared in "The Legend of Gatorade" ads, which he humorously alluded 
to during his live coverage of the 2006 Rose Bowl. In 2006, he also was 
shown in a commercial for Ice Breakers' Ice Cubes with Hilary Duff, Haylie 
Duff and Joey Lawrence, again contributing his famous "Whoa, Nellie!" Jackson 
was portrayed by actor Shuler Hensley in the 2002 made-for-cable film Monday 
Night Mayhem, which aired on TNT. This film told the story of the initial 
seasons of Monday Night Football. Jackson is a long-time resident of California. 
He and his wife, Turi Ann, have three grown children, Melanie, Lindsey, 
and Christopher, and three grandchildren, Ian, Holly, and Spencer. He currently 
resides in the Los Angeles area. On the subject of writing a book, Jackson 
has admitted that he's considered it, but joked that he would only sit 
down and work on one if he were to ever lose his golf swing.[31] Biography 
