Keith Charles Foulke (/ˈfoʊk/; born October 19, 1972) is a former Major 
League Baseball relief pitcher. A graduate of Hargrave High School in Huffman, 
Texas, Foulke attended Galveston College and Lewis–Clark State College. 
Between 1997 and 2008, he pitched for the San Francisco Giants, Chicago 
White Sox, Oakland Athletics, Boston Red Sox and Cleveland Indians. Foulke 
was an All-Star in 2003 and he earned the final out of the 2004 World Series. 
After graduating from Hargrave High School in Huffman, Texas in 1991, he 
attended Galveston College and Lewis–Clark State College in Idaho. He began 
his career in the minor-league system of the San Francisco Giants. During 
the 1997 season, Foulke was one of six prospects (along with Bob Howry, 
Lorenzo Barceló, Mike Caruso, Ken Vining, and Brian Manning) traded to 
the White Sox in exchange for Wilson Álvarez, Danny Darwin, and Roberto 
Hernández in what became known as the White Flag Trade.[1] In 1998, Keith 
found a home in the White Sox bullpen, primarily serving as set-up man 
for closers Matt Karchner (who was traded to the Chicago Cubs in the middle 
of the season) and Bill Simas. In 1999, Foulke established himself as one 
of the league's best relief pitchers, posting a 2.22 ERA in 105.1 innings 
of work over 67 games, however, he was still used primarily as a set-up 
man. His stellar season even netted him a vote for the 1999 AL Cy Young 
Award. In 2000, Foulke again was an important piece of the White Sox bullpen. 
Though Bob Howry entered the season as the team's primary closer, Foulke 
was seeing more and more time closing out games, and by April's end he 
had recorded 4 saves (in 1999, he didn't notch a save until June). As Howry 
continued to struggle, Foulke inherited the closer's role and flourished, 
saving 34 games for the White Sox in 2000, and was a major reason the White 
Sox won the AL Central title. On December 3, 2002, Foulke, along with catcher 
Mark Johnson, minor league pitcher Joe Valentine, and cash, was traded 
by the White Sox to the Oakland Athletics for closer Billy Koch and two 
minor leaguers. During the 2003 season with the Athletics, Foulke would 
distinguish himself as a closer, leading the league in saves and games 
finished, being named to the All-Star team and winning the American League 
Rolaids Relief Man of the Year Award. However, it was Foulke who also gave 
up the game-winning double to David Ortiz in Game 4 of the American League 
Division Series that year. Foulke was granted free agency on October 27, 
2003, and signed with the Boston Red Sox. Foulke continued his dominance 
in his first year with the Red Sox, saving 32 games in 39 opportunities 
while racking up 79 strikeouts and a 2.17 ERA across 83 innings. In the 
2004 postseason, Foulke appeared in 11 of 14 games, throwing 257 pitches 
over 14 innings. He would rack up 19 strikeouts and over the entire stretch 
would only allow exactly one earned run. While Foulke was marvelous (1.80 
ERA) in the World Series, his most crucial work was in the American League 
Championship Series against the Yankees, when he pitched in five games 
and didn't allow a run. With the Red Sox down, 3-0, in the series, Foulke 
threw 100 pitches over the next three days to help his team force Game 
7.[2] Foulke was on the mound when the final out was made in the 2004 World 
Series. He induced Édgar Rentería of the St. Louis Cardinals to hit a one-bounce 
ground ball back to him which he flipped to first, thus clinching the Red 
Sox' first World Series Championship since 1918. Despite being the hero 
of the previous postseason, Foulke struggled to keep his job as closer 
as he battled knee injuries throughout 2005. His ERA ballooned to over 
5.00 and he eventually lost the role of closer to Mike Timlin. On June 
28, 2005, after struggling with injuries and a 6.03 ERA to that point, 
Foulke lashed out at Red Sox fans, who were booing him. "They're not going 
to make it any harder than it is for me to go home and look in the mirror", 
Foulke said about the booing that rained down from the stands on a sticky 
night in the Fens. "Like I've told you guys plenty of times, I'm more embarrassed 
to walk into this locker room and look at the faces of my teammates than 
I am to walk out and see Johnny from Burger King booing me. I'm worried 
about these guys, not everybody else."[3] Foulke's perceived lack of respect 
for Red Sox fans made him a target for both fans and the Boston media alike. 
His baseball heart was also questioned because he said he did not care 
if he was a closer, but clarified, "I love to pitch. I don't care if I 
pitch in the second inning, the fourth inning, the ninth inning, the 10th 
inning. I didn't ask to be a closer. It's just the job that I do."[4] The 
media also had a field day when they found out that Foulke demanded a new 
truck as compensation for his weekly interviews with Dale & Holley on WEEI.[5] 
The Red Sox had high expectations for Foulke in 2006, after two knee surgeries 
in the offseason. Manager Terry Francona was hoping to put Foulke back 
in the closer role, but after an inconsistent spring and early regular 
season games, Francona was quick to go to Jonathan Papelbon as the closer. 
Foulke pitched mainly as one of the team's middle relievers, along with 
Mike Timlin, Julián Tavárez, and Rudy Seánez. Foulke continued to struggle, 
with an ERA of 5.63. On June 12, 2006, Foulke was put on the disabled list 
with right elbow tendinitis. Foulke was activated from the 15-day DL on 
August 18. In November 2006, Foulke opted for free agency.[6] Foulke signed 
a one-year deal (with an option for a second year) with the Cleveland Indians 
for the 2007 season after passing a physical in January. However, Foulke 
announced his retirement on February 16, 2007, before ever putting on an 
Indians uniform.[7] He cited pains in his elbow and injuries from the previous 
two seasons as the primary reason for ending his ten-year career. Pitchers 
and catchers reported one day earlier and the first spring workout was 
not scheduled until February 17. The announcement came as a shock to most 
people, as Foulke was slated to compete with Joe Borowski to fill the vacant 
closer's role. On February 8, 2008, Foulke returned from retirement and 
signed a one-year contract with the Oakland Athletics, for whom he had 
previously closed in 2003. Foulke played for the Newark Bears in the Atlantic 
League of Professional Baseball.[8] From 2000 to 2004, Foulke was one of 
the top closers in baseball. At the peak of his career, he had an effective 
87-91 MPH fastball and what many people considered to be one of the best 
circle changeups in the sport (which he could get down to 76 MPH, making 
for a 12-14 MPH difference in the two, a sign of a good changeup.) However, 
later in his career, his fastball ranged from 84-86 MPH while his changeup 
remained at 76 MPH. While solid against right-handed hitters, he is particularly 
lethal against lefties. His strikeout pitch is usually an inside circle 
changeup. Foulke has good control, as his career strikeout-to-walk ratio 
reveals. While he doesn't hold runners on base particularly well, he covers 
his position adequately and throws accurately to the bases. In 2004, he 
completed a fifth straight season without committing an error (71 total 
chances in 307 games). In addition, his unusual throwing motion provides 
him with the ability to mask his changeup well, though runners on base 
can easily see his grip from his exposed hand and potentially tip his pitches 
