Kelly Wayne Gruber (born February 26, 1962 in Houston, Texas) is a former 
Major League Baseball (MLB) third baseman. Gruber was born on February 
26, 1962.[1] Gruber played baseball at Westlake High School in Austin, 
Texas where his number was later retired. He was drafted by the Cleveland 
Indians in the 1st round (10th pick) of the 1980 amateur draft but did 
not see time with the team. On December 5, 1983, the Toronto Blue Jays 
picked him up in the Rule 5 draft. Gruber saw his first MLB action shortly 
thereafter, playing in his first game on April 20, 1984. Over the next 
three seasons, he split time between MLB and the minor leagues, earning 
an everyday spot in the Toronto line-up by 1987. The Toronto media quickly 
nicknamed him "Xanthos" (meaning blonde) after his long flowing blonde 
hair. During his stay in Toronto he was voted the city's most eligible 
bachelor. On April 16, 1989, Gruber was the first Blue Jay in history to 
hit for the cycle[1] when he got four hits in six at–bats with six RBI 
and four runs scored.[2] His cycle occurred in the following order: home 
run, double, triple, and single.[3] He was told to stop at first for his 
single even though a double was easily attainable. Gruber had his best 
season in 1990, hitting .274 with 31 HRs, 118 RBIs and 14 SBs, winning 
Gold Glove and Silver Slugger awards and ending up fourth in MVP balloting 
that year. Gruber was a member of the 1992 World Series-winning Blue Jay 
team, and was involved in one of the most controversial plays in World 
Series history. In the fourth inning of Game 3, Gruber appeared to make 
a diving tag on Braves runner Deion Sanders' foot to record the third out 
of a triple play, which would have been only the second such play in World 
Series history. However, the second-base umpire ruled Sanders safe. Gruber 
tore his rotator cuff on the play; however, he hit a key game-tying home 
run in the eighth inning, and the Jays won the game in walk-off fashion, 
later taking the series in six games.[4] Gruber was traded to the California 
Angels for Luis Sojo in December 1992.[5] Soon after his arrival, Gruber 
announced that he had bulging discs in his neck.[6] Just over two months 
after the trade, Gruber had shoulder surgery to repair a rotator cuff tear. 
Gruber was expected to be sidelined for at least eight weeks. Angels manager 
Buck Rodgers was angered over the news of Gruber's surgery; he felt that 
the Blue Jays must have known about the extent of Gruber's injury before 
they traded him. Rodgers said that Rene Gonzales would be the team's third 
baseman that year.[5] Gruber returned to action in June, but after playing 
in only 18 games, Gruber went back on the disabled list with continued 
neck and shoulder problems the next month.[6] In September, the team placed 
Gruber on waivers. He was owed $4 million dollars for the 1993 season, 
but the Blue Jays agreed to pay $1.7 million of that total.[7] In 1997, 
Gruber attempted a comeback with the Baltimore Orioles. While his performance 
was good enough to impress coaches and staff with the Orioles, Gruber decided 
to retire for good due to health-related concerns. Gruber makes public 
appearances as a motivational speaker for charitable organizations and 
holds baseball seminars throughout North America. In 1992, Gruber published 
