Kenneth Earl Clay (born April 6, 1954) is a former Major League Baseball 
right-handed pitcher. Following his brief major league career, Clay had 
several run ins with the law. Most recently, he was sentenced to five years 
in jail for grand theft for creating a fake sales order at the Sarasota, 
Florida copy machine office in which he worked.[1] Drafted by the New York 
Yankees in the second round of the 1972 Major League Baseball Draft, he 
soon emerged as one of the top pitching prospects in the Yankees' organization. 
However, he never lived up to his potential, and was eventually traded 
away by the Yankees after three seasons in which he went 6-14 with a 4.72 
earned run average. Clay's lack of success at the major league level is 
often cited as the catalyst for Yankees owner George Steinbrenner's desire 
to build his team through free agency and trades rather than relying upon 
his own farm system.[2] Clay was drafted in the second round of the 1972 
draft upon graduation from E. C. Glass High School in Lynchburg, Virginia. 
He put up respectable numbers in his first five seasons in the Yankees' 
farm system, going 46-40 with a 3.64 ERA, but was wild.[3] In 726 innings 
pitched, Clay walked 348 batters. He got it together in 1977; in ten starts 
with the International League's Syracuse Chiefs, Clay went 5-1 with a 1.68 
ERA. He was called up by the Yankees to relieve some of the burden on manager 
Billy Martin's overextended pitching staff. He joined a team that was tied 
for first place in the American League East, and eventually won the division 
by 2.5 games over the Baltimore Orioles and Boston Red Sox. Clay went 0-2 
with a 7.73 as a starter, but was far more effective out of the bullpen. 
He was 2-1 with a 3.40 ERA and one save as a relief pitcher. Oddly, the 
one loss may have been his best pitching performance of the season. On 
June 17, Catfish Hunter gave up four first inning home runs against the 
Boston Red Sox at Fenway Park. He handed the ball to Clay down 4-0 with 
two outs in the first. Clay held them scoreless through the fourth, allowing 
the Yankees to tie the score. The Red Sox scored a run in the fifth to 
hang the L on Clay.[4] After not making an appearance in the 1977 American 
League Championship Series, he made appearances in both games the Yankees 
lost to the Los Angeles Dodgers in the World Series, pitching very effectively 
in game two.[5] Heading into Spring training 1978, Clay was one of the 
top young pitching prospects in the Yankees' organization, along with Jim 
Beattie and Gil Patterson, hoping to earn a spot on the opening day roster. 
Each vocalized frustration with the organization when they acquired pitchers 
Rich Gossage, Andy Messersmith and Rawly Eastwick after the 1977 season 
believing that it hindered their chances of making the club.[6] In return, 
Clay received his fair share of criticism from some of the veteran pitchers 
with the Yankees. Hunter surmised that Clay had a "great arm, great slider, 
bad brains," and felt that the advice he offered to the young pitcher often 
went unheeded.[7] Likewise, Sparky Lyle, who won a Cy Young Award in relief, 
also offered advice to Clay about his tendency to wear his arm out in practice, 
thus not being 100% for the day's game. George Steinbrenner simply described 
Clay as a "morning glory," a horse racing term for a horse that performs 
best in the morning workouts prior to the actual race.[8] Regardless, with 
the exception of a 21-day trip to the disabled list,[9] Clay remained on 
the major league roster the entire season. Clay went 3-4 with a 4.28 ERA 
during the regular season, but his most memorable performance came in the 
post-season. The Yankees were leading 4-0 when Clay was called into the 
first game of the 1978 American League Championship Series against the 
Kansas City Royals in the sixth inning with one out and the bases loaded. 
The Royals scored one run on a sacrifice fly by Hal McRae. Clay then retired 
Al Cowens on a groundout to get out of the inning with just one run scored. 
He held the Royals hitless the rest of the way to earn the save.[10] Unfortunately, 
his success did not carry into the 1979 season. He went 1-7 with a 5.70 
ERA, and was relegated to "mop-up duty" by the end of the season (26 of 
his 32 appearances were in losses). He began the 1980 season assigned to 
the Yankees' triple A affiliate, the Columbus Clippers. On August 14, he 
was traded to the Texas Rangers for future Hall of Famer Gaylord Perry.[11] 
Clay stepped into Perry's spot in the Rangers' starting rotation, and went 
2-3 with a 4.60 ERA his only season in Texas.[12] He was part of a blockbuster 
deal during the Winter meetings when he, Richie Zisk, Brian Allard, Rick 
Auerbach, Jerry Gleaton and minor leaguer Steve Finch were sent to the 
Seattle Mariners for Larry Cox, Rick Honeycutt, Willie Horton, Mario Mendoza 
and Leon Roberts.[13] Clay began the 1981 season in Seattle's starting 
rotation, but after going 0-3 with an ERA of 7.03, he was moved into the 
bullpen by Mariners manager Maury Wills. He remained in the bullpen through 
the first half of the strike shortened season, even after Wills was replaced 
by Rene Lachemann, but was moved back into the starting rotation when play 
resumed after the strike. He performed far better, going 2-3 with a 3.64 
ERA in ten starts. He failed to make the club the following Spring, and 
retired rather than trying to latch on with a new team. In 1989, he joined 
the Senior Professional Baseball Association as a member of the Gold Coast 
Suns, but never appeared in a game with the team. Clay's legal troubles 
began in 1986. He faced up to twenty years in prison on four counts of 
grand larceny for stealing $30,000 from Jostens Inc., a school ring company 
for whom he worked.[14] Campbell County, Virginia prosecutors cut a deal 
with his attorneys that kept him out of prison. Instead, he paid $15,000 
restitution to Jostens plus $1,394.64 in court fees, got 1,000 hours of 
community service, five years supervised probation and a suspended sentence. 
In February 1992, Clay stole a car from the Bedford County, Virginia car 
dealership he worked for, and was sentenced to a year in jail. While serving 
his time, it was discovered that Clay withheld information about three 
previous arrests from his probation officers (The grand larceny and two 
DUIs). An additional three years in the Campbell County jail was tacked 
onto his sentence.[15] Clay moved to Bradenton, Florida after his release 
and was accused in 1999 of identity theft. He used his girlfriend's identity 
to falsify credit card applications, to lease and insure a 1998 Nissan 
Pathfinder and to create a checking account from which he forged checks. 
He was charged with five counts of forgery, five counts of scheming to 
defraud, nine counts of uttering a forged instrument and four counts of 
grand theft,[16] and could have been sentenced to more than twenty years 
in prison had he been convicted on all charges by a jury. Clay agreed to 
pay back creditors, and Manatee County Circuit Judge Charles Williams sentenced 
him to fifteen years of probation. In 2005, Clay began working for the 
Copy Concept copy machine company. Having only made one sale a month and 
a half into his employment with the company, he falsified a sales order 
for a Toshiba e-Studio 3511 Copier that would have landed him a $7,500 
commission. He forged the supposed buyer's signature on three documents.[17] 
The jury convicted him of grand theft after a one-day trial. He had been 
offered a plea agreement that included six months in the county jail before 
the trial, however, did not accept it. Prosecutors recommended a prison 
sentence of three years, however, Circuit Judge Rick De Furia sentenced 
him to five years in prison citing his past criminal activity. He was released 
from prison on February 16, 2012 and is back living in Lynchburg, where 
