Kenneth Smith Harrelson (born September 4, 1941), nicknamed "The Hawk" 
due to his distinctive profile, and also nicknamed "Yox" because of his 
facial expressions, is a former All-Star first baseman and outfielder in 
Major League Baseball. He currently serves as a television broadcast announcer 
for the Chicago White Sox. Harrelson was born in Woodruff, South Carolina, 
and his family moved to Savannah, Georgia, when he was in fifth grade. 
As a child Harrelson was interested in basketball and he hoped to pursue 
a basketball scholarship from the University of Kentucky. His parents divorced 
when he was eight.[1] He played golf, baseball, football and basketball 
at Benedictine Military School in Savannah, Georgia. Throwing and batting 
right-handed, Harrelson played for four teams: the Kansas City Athletics 
(1963–66, 1967), Washington Senators (1966–67), Boston Red Sox (1967–69), 
and Cleveland Indians (1969–71). In his nine-season career, Harrelson was 
a .239 hitter with 131 home runs and 421 RBI in 900 games. His time with 
the Athletics ended abruptly in 1967 when Harrelson angrily denounced team 
owner Charlie Finley following the dismissal of manager Alvin Dark. Saying 
that Finley was "a menace to baseball", Harrelson was released and ended 
up signing a lucrative deal with the Boston Red Sox, who were in contention 
to win their first pennant since 1946. Brought in to replace the injured 
Tony Conigliaro, Harrelson helped the team win the pennant, but watched 
the team drop the World Series to the St. Louis Cardinals in seven games. 
However, in 1968, he had his finest season, making the American League 
All-Star team and leading the American League in runs batted in with 109. 
He also finished third in the American League Most Valuable Player balloting, 
with two Detroit Tigers finishing ahead of him—pitcher Denny McLain won 
the award and catcher Bill Freehan finished second. On April 19, 1969, 
Harrelson was traded to the Indians, a move that shocked him and led him 
to briefly retire. Following conversations with commissioner Bowie Kuhn 
and a contract adjustment by Cleveland, Harrelson reported to the team, 
finishing the year with 30 home runs. He also used his local celebrity 
status to briefly host a half-hour TV show, "The Hawk's Nest" on local 
CBS affiliate, WJW-TV. Harrelson was very popular in Cleveland, with his 
autobiography coming out around the time of the trade to the Indians. Stories 
of his time as an Indian are chronicled in the book "Portrait of a Franchise: 
An Intimate Look at Cleveland Indians Baseball During the Rockin' Sixties" 
by Doug Kurkul. During spring training the following year, Harrelson suffered 
a broken leg while sliding into second base during a March 19 exhibition 
game against the Oakland Athletics. The injury kept him on the sidelines 
for much of the season. When Indians rookie Chris Chambliss took over the 
first base position in 1971, Harrelson retired midseason to pursue a professional 
golf career. Harrelson is often credited with inventing the batting glove 
by wearing a golf glove while at bat with the A's; however, Peter Morris' 
book A Game of Inches says the batting glove may have been used as early 
as 1901 by Hughie Jennings, and were definitely used by Lefty O'Doul and 
Johnny Frederick of the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1932, and later by Bobby Thomson 
in the 1950s. Morris does credit Harrelson with reintroducing and popularizing 
the batting glove in the 1960s. Roger Maris also used what was thought 
to be a batting glove, most likely a golf glove, in the 1961 season. After 
his time on the links brought minimal compensation over the next few years, 
Harrelson turned to a broadcasting career beginning in 1975 with the Red 
Sox on WSBK-TV partnering with Dick Stockton.[2] He became highly popular, 
especially after being teamed with veteran play-by-play man Ned Martin 
in 1979, but after being publicly critical of player personnel decisions 
made by Boston co-owner Haywood Sullivan, Harrelson was fired at the close 
of the 1981 season.[citation needed] Harrelson served as a Chicago White 
Sox announcer from 1982 to 1985 and briefly left broadcasting during the 
1986 season to become the White Sox's General Manager. During his one season 
as GM, Harrelson fired field manager Tony La Russa (who was soon hired 
by the Oakland Athletics) and assistant general manager Dave Dombrowski 
(who became baseball's youngest general manager with the Montreal Expos 
just two years later). Harrelson also traded rookie Bobby Bonilla, later 
a six-time All-Star, to the Pittsburgh Pirates for pitcher José DeLeón. 
During the 1987–1988 seasons, he was the play-by-play man for New York 
Yankees games on SportsChannel New York.[2] From 1984–1989, Harrelson served 
as a backup color commentator on NBC's Game of the Week broadcasts alongside 
play-by-play man Jay Randolph. In 1994, Harrelson served as a broadcaster 
for the short-lived Baseball Network and was the US broadcaster for the 
Japan Series that aired through the Prime-SportsChannel regional networks.[2] 
Harrelson returned to the White Sox in 1990 as the main play-by-play announcer 
during television broadcasts, teaming up with Tom Paciorek until 2000 and 
Darrin "DJ" Jackson from 2000 to 2008. In 2009, former Chicago Cubs color 
analyst Steve Stone, who broadcast with the late Baseball Hall of Fame 
broadcaster Harry Caray and later Chip Caray, began accompanying Harrelson 
in the television booth. During this time he won five Emmy Awards and two 
Illinois Sportscaster of the Year awards.[3] However, In 2010, GQ named 
Harrelson and broadcast partner Steve Stone the worst pair of broadcasters 
in baseball.[4] Starting with the 2016 season, Harrelson cut back his schedule 
to road games and select home games. Jason Benetti took over as the television 
announcer for most home games.[5] Harrelson is known for his homerism (open 
expression of pro-home team bias) and catch phrases, also known as "Hawkisms". 
Popular "Hawkisms" include: "You can put it on the board! Yes! Yes!" after 
a Sox home run, "He gone!" and/or "Grab some bench!" after a strikeout 
of an opposing player, and "Stretch!" when a White Sox player hits a ball 
toward the outfield fence. Hawk often states "Sacks packed with Sox" when 
the bases are loaded.[6] When a telecast begins, Hawk states, "Sit back. 
Relax and strap it down" to the viewers, right before commercial break 
before the first pitch. Harrelson refers to the White Sox as "the good 
guys" (based on the team's mid-1990s slogan Good Guys Wear Black). When 
a White Sox player hits a ball which appears to be heading foul, Harrelson 
often states "Stay fair!". Hawk will state "Dadgummit" when a ball that 
looks to be a home run is caught short of the wall or in general when a 
play does not go the White Sox's way. When a hitter hits a long foul ball 
that would have been a home run if it were fair, Hawk will say "right size, 
wrong shape." If a White Sox hitter makes good contact, but the ball is 
hit where a fielder can make the out, Hawk says, "That's a hang with-em." 
For a time, Hawk often stated "Hell yes!" after an advantageous event for 
the White Sox. While he insists that exclaiming "Hell yes!" is not contrived 
and is a product of his devotion to the White Sox, it has generated some 
controversy.[7] He is also known for shouting out "Mercy!" after a great 
defensive play is executed by a player or players and sometimes, when it 
is an exceptionally great play, or the play does not go the White Sox's 
way, he will also exclaim "You gotta be...bleeping me!" When a batter swings 
and misses he will proclaim, "Big hack, no contact." Harrelson refers to 
a routine flyball as a "can of corn." Hawk also calls bloop hits that land 
between fielders, "duck snorts." He refers to a two-hop infield ground 
ball as a "chopper-two-hopper." He calls a hard-hit ground ball that takes 
a favorable bounce for the fielder a "Bolingbrook Bounce." He refers to 
any play with a broken bat as a "Matt Abbatacola." Matt Abbatacola is a 
local sports radio show host and producer for AM 670 TheScore, which carries 
the White Sox radio broadcasts. The two met during spring training a few 
years ago, and Hawk decided to use his name during broken bat plays because 
of the distinctiveness and sound of his name. When a White Sox rally starts, 
Hawk Harrelson will often enthusiastically say, "Don't stop now boys." 
In July 2010, GQ named Harrelson the worst announcer in baseball. He has 
stated publicly that he wants to die in the booth during a game and that 
he will never retire.[6][8] Though Harrelson has been criticized for his 
repeated use of catch phrases and hometown allegiances,[9] his popularity 
with White Sox fans is demonstrable. Harrelson was nominated for the 2007 
Ford C. Frick award (won by Royals announcer Denny Matthews), and his presence 
in the field of nominees for that award was due to the support of fans, 
who placed him in nomination (along with Cincinnati Reds announcer Joe 
Nuxhall and San Francisco/Oakland announcer Bill King) via an online vote.[10] 
Hawk is also well known for his strong on-air criticisms of umpires. Harrelson 
appears to have developed a dislike of umpire Joe West, who "in the past 
few years, has had some problems with the White Sox."[citation needed] 
West had started a game the night before, but called it due to rain after 
about a half inning of play. In a game earlier that year, West had ejected 
Ozzie Guillén and Mark Buehrle for two separate balks in the same game. 
Hawk said on a broadcast in 2015,"The first rule of baseball is catch the 
baseball and the second rule is don't mess with Joe West."[citation needed] 
Following an on-air outburst about umpire Mark Wegner during a game on 
May 30, 2012, Harrelson received a reprimand from MLB commissioner Bud 
Selig. Harrelson's comments followed Wegner's ejection of White Sox rookie 
pitcher José Quintana for throwing a pitch behind Ben Zobrist. After White 
Sox manager Robin Ventura's ejection for arguing the call, Harrelson commented: 
"I'll tell you what, they have got to start making guys be accountable. 
That is totally absurd. Here's an umpire in the American League that knows 
nothing about the game of baseball. They have got to do something about 
this. They have got some guys in this league that have no business umpiring. 
They have no business umpiring because they don't know what the game of 
baseball is about." Although Harrelson said that such a tirade would not 
happen again, later in the same season, he lashed out at umpire Lance Barrett 
following the ejections of A. J. Pierzynski and Robin Ventura. Harrelson 
stated that "Lance Barrett has just stunk the joint up is all he's done. 
That's all he's done." He also claimed that "Everything that (Mariners 
pitcher) Blake Beavan has thrown up there that (catcher Miguel) Olivo has 
caught has been a strike. If he caught it, it was a strike. He's got two 
different strike zones. He's got a two-foot for Beavan, and he's got a 
10-inch for the White Sox. What does that tell you?"[11] A year later he 
had another outburst umpire tirade, this time over a blown call double 
play against the Miami Marlins when Angel Hernandez called Alex Rios out 
at first base which would have been a walk off infield single for the White 
Soc. His reaction was, "And another blown call by Hernandez!"[12] Harrelson's 
emotive and particularly distinctive call of Mark Buehrle's perfect game 
on July 23, 2009 was also notable. As Buehrle exited the field after the 
eighth inning, he exclaimed, "Call your sons! Call your daughters! Call 
your friends! Call your neighbors! Mark Buehrle has a perfect game going 
into the ninth!" Also, as the final ground ball of the game rolled towards 
the White Sox shortstop Alexei Ramírez, Harrelson called out "Alexei?!" 
(Harrelson often refers to the White Sox players by their first names.) 
As Ramirez completed the throw to the first baseman Josh Fields, Harrelson 
shouted "Yes! Yes! Yes! Yes! Yes! History!"[13] Though some did not like 
Harrelson's lack of verbosity and obvious hometown boosterism at the concluding 
moment of the game,[14] others felt the outburst of emotion captured exactly 
what they were feeling as the perfect game was sealed.[15] A Chicago Tribune 
columnist, Phil Rosenthal, arguing that each perfect game call is "memorable 
in its own way", made an explicit comparison of Harrelson's call to Vin 
Scully's call of Sandy Koufax's perfect game.[16] Harrelson had a 30-minute 
special on CSN Chicago, Put it on The Board which aired on Monday, June 
7, 2010 celebrating his 25 years as a Chicago White Sox broadcaster with 
memorable footage, memorable quotes and an interview with CSN Chicago's 
Chuck Garfien. Ken said during the interview, "I hope to be broadcasting 
for the White Sox until I die." He joked and said how he was going to die: 
in the White Sox broadcasting booth with his last words, "You can put it 
on the booooard... (dies without finishing)" Harrelson was honored with 
"Hawk Harrelson Night" by the Chicago White Sox for 25 years of broadcasting 
that was on Tuesday, June 8, 2010 vs. Detroit Tigers. The White Sox had 
a T-shirt giveaway for Harrelson for the first 10,000 fans that came to 
the game. The T-shirt has the White Sox logo on the front and in big letters 
on the back "Hawkism" with his famous catch phrases on the back. Harrelson 
also threw out the ceremonial first pitch before the game to White Sox 
manager Ozzie Guillén. Hawk fell silent after the Tigers scored 6 runs 
in the 7th inning leading to a 7-2 Tigers victory, ruining "Hawk Harrelson 
Night." As a man long-known for creating nicknames, his own nickname "Hawk" 
originated during his early playing days. Teammates began calling him "Hawk" 
due to his curvy, pointy nose. Harrelson coined many nicknames for popular 
Sox players, including "Black Jack" McDowell, Carlos "El Caballo" Lee, 
Lance "One Dog" Johnson, Frank "The Big Hurt" Thomas, Craig "Little Hurt" 
Grebeck, "The Deacon" Warren Newson, "Big Bad" Bobby Jenks, "The Silent 
Assassin" Javier Vázquez, Herbert "the Milkman" Perry, Jake "The Jake-Meister" 
Peavy, Dayán "The Tank" Viciedo, Willie "Peapod" Harris, Paul "The Professor" 
Konerko and Magglio "Maggs" Ordóñez, along with fan favorite "Big Dick" 
Richard Dotson. During a broadcast, Harrelson attempted to nickname partner 
Darrin Jackson "The Squirrel" because of the quantity of peanuts his partner 
ate, to which Jackson replied, "No." He calls his current partner Steve 
Stone "Stone Pony." It is unclear if that nickname is a reference to the 
popular music venue or the Linda Ronstadt band of the same name. Recently, 
he began calling White Sox slugger Adam Dunn "Biggin". "Biggin" is a Southern 
slang term for large people, which reflects Hawk's Deep South roots. Dunn 
is 6'6" and 285 pounds. More recently, Harrelson has been referring to 
José Abreu as El Cañon or "The Cannon." Not a nickname, but during the 
time when Greg Norton played for the Chicago White Sox between 1996 and 
2000 Harrelson would add the line "Norton, You're The Greatest" after "You 
can put it on the board! Yes! Yes!" when Norton hit a homerun. This was 
a mashup of two references from the sitcom The Honeymooners: one character 
was named Edward "Ed" Lillywhite Norton, and another character, Ralph Kramden, 
would say to his wife, Alice, "Baby, you're the greatest." An informal 
study by one baseball columnist, based on the number of home-team "biased" 
comments throughout the course of a game, concluded that Harrelson was 
by a wide margin the broadcaster who openly rooted for his team the most 
often. He embraced the results, responding, "That's the biggest compliment 
you could give me, to call me the biggest homer in baseball."[17] While 
he was still in high school, Harrelson met his first wife, Elizabeth Ann 
"Betty" Pacifici, whom he would marry that year. The marriage produced 
four children (Patricia, Michael, Richard, and John), and three grandchildren 
(Nikole, Ryan and Kiefer) and one great-grandson, Jack. Harrelson filed 
for divorce from Betty on June 28, 1971.[18] In 1970, Harrelson was part-owner 
of a $2 million waterfront nightclub in East Boston called the 1800 Club. 
A three-quarter sized replica of Donald McKay's clipper ship Flying Cloud 
was docked next to the club and was used as a floating cocktail lounge. 
The location offered superb views of Boston Harbor and the downtown skyline. 
The complex was severely damaged by fire on January 20, 1971, and never 
re-opened.[19] After retiring from baseball, Harrelson competed in the 
1972 British Open. He missed the cut by 1 stroke, shooting +11.[20] On 
September 13, 1973, Harrelson married Aris Harritos.[21] They have two 
children, daughter Krista and son Casey, as well as two grandchildren, 
Nico and Alexander. Harrelson's son Casey played in the White Sox minor 
league system in 1999. The family resides in Orlando, Florida Harrelson 
