Kenneth Douglass Hubbs (December 23, 1941 – February 13, 1964) was an American 
professional baseball player. He played in Major League Baseball as a second 
baseman for the Chicago Cubs from 1961 to 1963. He was killed in a plane 
crash near Provo, Utah prior to the 1964 season. In his short big-league 
career, Hubbs was considered to be an excellent fielder; assessments of 
his hitting were more mixed.[1][2][3] In 1962, he became the first rookie 
to win a Gold Glove Award, and set several fielding records. Those achievements 
helped him win the National League Rookie of the Year Award that season.[4] 
At the time of his death, Hubbs was considered to be one of the best defensive 
second basemen in the game.[5] Hubbs was born in Riverside, California 
and resided in nearby Colton. He played in the 1954 Little League World 
Series.[6] Colton represented California. They beat Virginia in the first 
round and Illinois in the second. In the final game of the Series, Schenectady 
beat California 5-3.[7] Two future big league players played on the Schenectady 
team: Jim Barbieri, with the Los Angeles Dodgers, and Bill Connors, with 
the Chicago Cubs, both in 1966. Highlights of Hubbs playing defense at 
shortstop were captured on film.[8] The video includes a play where Hubbs 
ran from the shortstop position to back up the second baseman and caught 
a bloop fly into short right field. He was elected ASB president at Colton 
High School his senior year. In high school he excelled in 3 sports, baseball, 
basketball and football. He was honored by CIF in all three. In 1958-59, 
he was a high school All-American in two sports, football (quarterback) 
and basketball. He was recruited by Notre Dame to play quarterback and 
by UCLA's John Wooden to play basketball. "Ken was undoubtedly the best 
football player I ever coached,' said Joe Lash former Colton High School 
football coach. His basketball coach, Tom Morrow, echoed, "Kenny Hubbs 
was the best all-around basketball player I ever saw for a boy his age." 
[9] Hubbs signed as an amateur free agent with the Chicago Cubs prior to 
the 1959 season. That year, he played for Morristown, Tennessee in the 
Class D Appalachian League. He played outfield and shortstop in the all-rookie 
competition. He was in 59 games, had 198 at-bats and a batting average 
of .298. His 50 runs batted in and 8 home runs were enough to earn a nomination 
for player of the year in the Appalachian League. On July 18, 1959, he 
led the Morristown Cubs to a 20-0 victory over the first place Salem Pirates. 
Hubbs and teammate Jim Purslow each hit 2 home runs and a double. Each 
man scored 5 runs while the entire Pirate team was held to 4 hits.[10] 
Morristown continued the offensive barrage 5 days later against Wytheville. 
Hubbs started a 7 run first inning with a home run, and his team won the 
slugfest, 9-7.[11] Organized baseball initiated a player draft in 1959, 
in an attempt to cut down on large signing bonuses given to young players. 
The Cubs' AAA club in Ft. Worth recalled Hubbs in October and then purchased 
his contract outright in November. The end result of this maneuvering was 
to protect Hubbs from being drafted by another club. This was a sign that 
the Cubs clearly expected Hubbs to make the major league team in the near 
future. Hubbs went to the Cubs' rookie camp for spring training in 1960 
as a shortstop/outfielder.[12] During the 1961 season, the Cubs played 
Don Zimmer and Jerry Kindall at second base, both of whom struggled at 
the plate: while Zimmer made the National League All-Star team that year, 
he hit only .252 and Kindall .242.[13] Hubbs was called up from the minor 
leagues to give the Cubs more offense at second base. He made his major 
league debut on September 10, 1961 against the Philadelphia Phillies, with 
three at-bats, two hits and one run batted in in a 12-5 Cub loss.[14] He 
played in ten games in late 1961, with five hits in 26 at-bats and one 
home run.[13] The New York Mets drafted Zimmer in the 1961 expansion draft 
and the Cubs traded Kindall, leaving Hubbs as the starting second baseman 
for ninth-place Chicago in 1962. He played in 160 games that season, with 
172 hits with five home runs and 49 runs batted in.[15] He led all National 
League rookies in games, hits, doubles, triples, runs and batting average.[16] 
For that he was named the Rookie of the Year, earning 19 out of 20 votes 
and becoming the second consecutive Cubs player to win the award after 
Billy Williams had won the award the season before. Not until Jerome Walton 
in 1989 would another Cub win the Rookie of the Year Award. In the field, 
Hubbs set records with 78 consecutive games and 418 total chances without 
an error, breaking Bobby Doerr's Major League Baseball major league records,[5] 
making him the first rookie to win a Gold Glove Award. He also led the 
league in two less desirable categories that season by striking out 129 
times and grounding into 20 double plays.[15] On September 30, he started 
a triple play in the final game of the season against the Mets.[17] Hubbs 
was well liked by his teammates. Ernie Banks remembered, "Lots of young 
players do something special and you can't talk to them any more. Not Ken. 
One day, he got seven hits in a doubleheader. Pretty good for a rookie. 
But he didn't talk or act any differently than when he didn't get a hit." 
He was known for his faith. Reporters often noted that he did not smoke 
or drink alcohol, and that he attended church services while on the road 
with the team. With Hubbs's encouragement, teammate Ron Santo quit smoking.[18] 
In 1963 Hubbs played in 155 games and batted only .235 with eight home 
runs and 47 runs batted in,[15] but his superior fielding helped the Cubs 
finish over .500 at 82-80.[5] Hubbs had a fear of flying. Roommate Ron 
Santo described the sheer terror he dealt with every time the Cubs flew 
to their next venue.[19] He decided to challenge this fear head-on by taking 
flying lessons[1] in the winter between 1963 and 1964, and received his 
pilot's license in January 1964. His long-time friend, Dennis Doyle, became 
a father the month after. The young mother had taken the train from Colton, 
California to Provo, Utah to spend time with her parents and their new 
grandchild. Hubbs and Doyle set out to surprise her by making a one-day 
flight to Provo on February 12. Once there, the pair decided to stay the 
night and return to Colton the next day. Hubbs played in a charity basketball 
game that night.[20][21] A storm developed in the Utah Valley the morning 
of February 13. Hubbs thought he could beat the storm and decided to attempt 
the return flight. He and Doyle took off in a red and white Cessna 172 
from Provo Airport, which sits on the edge of Utah Lake. He hadn't filed 
a flight plan, but just told airport staff that the pair were heading for 
Morrow Field near Colton, California.[4] Euliss Hubbs, Ken's father, called 
to report that they had not arrived in Colton by Friday the 14th. A search 
began Saturday morning in areas of Utah, Nevada and California along a 
route the pair might have taken. Utah's civil aeronautics director, Harlon 
Bement, noted there had been no record of radio contact with Hubbs after 
takeoff, adding, "This means the plane could be fairly close [by]."[22] 
Rescuers found the wreckage a quarter mile south of Bird Island in Utah 
Lake. The weather temperature was estimated as -1 °F, and it had been snowing 
heavily.[5] Hubbs's funeral was held several days later in his hometown 
of Colton. Services were held in the Colton High School gymnasium because 
of the huge crowd that wanted to view Hubbs's casket. Fellow Cubs Ron Santo, 
Ernie Banks, Glen Hobbie and Don Elston were among the pallbearers.[5] 
He was buried at Montecito Memorial Park, in Colton.[23] Jim Murray of 
the Los Angeles Times wrote, "Kenneth Douglass Hubbs was more than just 
another baseball player. He was the kind of athlete all games need. A devout 
Mormon, a cheerful leader, a picture-book player, blond-haired, healthy, 
generous with his time for young boys; he was the kind of youth in short 
supply in these selfish times."[24] Hubbs's uniform number 16 was never 
retired by the Cubs, but was kept out of circulation for about three years 
before being issued to another player. After his death, the Ken Hubbs Foundation 
was organized in his honor. Since 1964, the Ken Hubbs Award has been given 
to the best high school male athletes in the greater San Bernardino, California 
area. Colton High School has a gym named after Hubbs, which features a 
