The Ken Burns effect is a type of panning and zooming effect used in video 
production from still imagery. The name derives from extensive use of the 
technique by American documentarian Ken Burns. The technique predates his 
use of it, but his name has become associated with the effect in much the 
same way as Alfred Hitchcock is associated with the dolly zoom.[citation 
needed] The feature enables a widely used technique of embedding still 
photographs in motion pictures, displayed with slow zooming and panning 
effects, and fading transitions between frames. The technique is principally 
used when film or video material is not available. Action is given to still 
photographs by slowly zooming in on subjects of interest and panning from 
one subject to another. For example, in a photograph of a baseball team, 
one might slowly pan across the faces of the players and come to a rest 
on the player the narrator is discussing. By employing simulated parallax, 
a two-dimensional image can appear as 3D, with the viewpoint seeming to 
enter the picture and move among the figures.[1] The effect can be used 
as a transition between clips as well. For example, to segue from one person 
in the story to another, a clip might open with a close-up of one person 
in a photo, then zoom out so that another person in the photo becomes visible. 
The zooming and panning across photographs gives the feeling of motion, 
and keeps the viewer visually engaged. Burns has credited documentary filmmaker 
Jerome Liebling for teaching him how still photographs could be incorporated 
into documentary films.[2] He has also cited the 1957 National Film Board 
of Canada documentary City of Gold, co-directed by Colin Low and Wolf Koenig, 
as a source of inspiration for this technique.[3][4][5] Winner of the Palme 
d'or at the Cannes Film Festival and nominated for an Academy Award,[6] 
City of Gold used animation camera techniques to slowly pan and zoom across 
archival still pictures of Canada's Klondike Gold Rush.[7] In film editing, 
the technique may be achieved through the use of a rostrum camera, although 
today it is more common to use software. Non-linear editing systems such 
as iMovie and Openshot for Linux include an effect or transition called 
Ken Burns Effect, with which a still image may be incorporated into a film 
using this kind of slow pan and zoom. Final Cut Pro,[8] Apple TV and Apple's 
iMovie video editing program include a photo slideshow option labelled 
"Ken Burns Effect".[2] On the Windows platform, 4K Slideshow Maker by 4KDownload, 
AVS Video Editor, Windows Movie Maker, Pinnacle Studio, Serif MoviePlus, 
Sony Vegas Studio (and Movie), Ulead VideoStudio, Adobe Premiere, PicturesToExe 
also have pan and zoom features built in or available through third party 
extensions which may be used to achieve the effect. Microsoft Photo Story 
is a free application that creates videos with both random and customiseable 
Ken Burns Effects automatically from selected images. ProShow Gold/Producer 
from Photodex is a favorite application by still photographers that uses 
this effect to great measure. Another free multiplatform Ken Burns effect 
application is PhotoFilmStrip. On the Mac platform, Final Cut Pro, Final 
Cut Express, iMovie, Adobe Premiere, and others also have the ability. 
Particularly, Adobe and Apple products (excluding iMovie) allow the user 
to set keyframes to further customize the process. The effect is found 
in a great number of screensavers and slideshows. Apple uses it in their 
screensavers. Windows PCs can use Greg Stitt's "MotionPicture" and Gregg 
Tavares's "Nostalgic", among others. The effect can also be seen in the 
N73 smartphone by Nokia, applied to the slideshows the phone creates from 
the pictures stored in it.[9] Many seventh-generation video game consoles 
also feature versions of this effect, including Nintendo's Wii Photo Channel, 
Sony's PlayStation 3 and within the Last.fm app for Xbox 360. Outside of 
screensavers and slide shows, the effect is also found in some video games. 
Steve Jobs contacted Burns to obtain the filmmaker's permission to use 
the term "Ken Burns Effect" for Apple's video production software (the 
description had been Apple's internal working title while the feature was 
in development). Burns initially declined, saying that he didn't allow 
his name to be used for commercial purposes. Instead, Burns had Jobs give 
him "some equipment which we give to nonprofits" in exchange for permission 
to use the term in Apple products.[10] In February 2014, Burns stated in 
his AMA on Reddit that Steve Jobs "asked my permission. I said yes. And 
six billion saved wedding, bar mitzvahs, vacation slideshows later, it's 
still going. But our attempt to wake the dead relies on a much more nuanced 
and complicated relationship to the photograph (the DNA of storytelling), 
as well as the soundtrack."[11] Burns says that on occasion, strangers 
will stop him on the street to enthusiastically describe how they use the 
Ken Burns Effect on their Apple software or ask him questions. Burns, who 
writes his speeches longhand and calls himself a Luddite, claims he doesn't 
really understand what these Apple users are telling him (despite the inherent 
technical sophistication required in modern documentary film making) and 
