As Player As General Manager Kenneth Royal Williams (born April 6, 1964) 
is a former outfielder in Major League Baseball and the current Executive 
Vice President of the Chicago White Sox. Selected by the White Sox in the 
third round of the 1982 amateur draft, Williams made his debut in 1986 
and spent three years in Chicago, primarily as a center fielder, before 
being traded to the Detroit Tigers in 1989. The Tigers waived him during 
the 1990 season, and he was claimed by the Toronto Blue Jays. Williams 
remained a bit player with the Blue Jays, usually coming on as a pinch-runner 
due to his speed. He was the starting center fielder when Dave Stieb threw 
his only no-hitter, the first no-hitter in Toronto history. He is best 
remembered as a player for a bizarre incident during the 1990 season, where 
a series of wild throwing errors resulted in him (on base as a pinch-runner) 
rounding third base and mauling over third base coach John McLaren, knocking 
him out in the process (Williams himself was winded, but eventually ended 
up scoring the run). This humorous clip would be played over and over in 
blooper reels for years to come. The Blue Jays then put him on waivers 
during the 1991 season, with Canada's other major league team, the Montreal 
Expos, picking him up. Williams decided to retire from baseball after being 
released by Montreal following the 1991 season. In November 1992, Williams 
rejoined the White Sox organization as a scout. Named special assistant 
to Sox chairman Jerry Reinsdorf in 1994, he spent some time as a studio 
analyst for Sox games on SportsChannel Chicago before becoming the team's 
director of minor league operations in 1995. In 1997, he was named vice-president 
of player development, a position in which he remained until 2000. In October 
2000, Williams replaced Ron Schueler as the general manager of the White 
Sox.[1] Williams inherited[2] Jerry Manuel as his first manager, who had 
just led them to 95 wins and a division title prior to Williams being promoted 
to GM. At the conclusion of the 2003 season Manuel was fired[3] despite 
a winning record of 86-76. Williams then hired popular former Chicago shortstop 
Ozzie Guillén[4] as the team's manager in 2003. Since becoming the White 
Sox GM, Williams has become known for his aggressive moves to bolster the 
Sox lineup. This reputation was strengthened following the 2004 season, 
when Williams completely made over the White Sox team by switching its 
on-field focus from home runs to pitching, defense, and speed. Accordingly, 
he acquired players which excelled in those areas, through free agent signings 
(Orlando Hernández, Dustin Hermanson, Jermaine Dye, A. J. Pierzynski, Tadahito 
Iguchi), trades (Scott Podsednik, José Contreras, Freddy García) and the 
farm system (Joe Crede, Aaron Rowand)Both Crede and Rowand were drafted 
by Schueler. Williams' off-season maneuvers were reflected in an extremely 
successful 2005 campaign for the South Siders, one in which they held the 
best record in all of baseball for most of the year, and finished with 
the best record in the AL to clinch their first AL Central Division title 
since 2000, their first American League pennant since 1959, and their first 
World Series since 1917. On February 27, 2006, Williams lashed out at former 
White Sox first baseman Frank Thomas in an interview with a Chicago television 
media outlet, in response to statements Thomas made about the White Sox 
organization. He referred to Thomas as "an idiot" and "selfish" and said 
no one in the White Sox organization would miss him.[5] In the off-season 
prior to the 2006 season, Williams set out to improve his world championship 
team further by acquiring pitcher Javier Vázquez from the Arizona Diamondbacks 
and slugger Jim Thome from the Philadelphia Phillies. In addition, Williams 
was cognizant of the large role that the bench played under Ozzie Guillén 
and solidified it by trading for Rob Mackowiak and Alex Cintrón. Because 
of these maneuvers, the White Sox were once again favored[6][7] to win 
the 2006 American League Central. At the All-Star break, the White Sox 
were tied with the Detroit Tigers for first place and held a 6-game lead 
over the New York Yankees for the wild card. The lead evaporated in the 
second half of the season and despite winning 90 games, they fell short 
and finished in third place in their Division behind the Detroit Tigers 
and Minnesota Twins, thereby not making the playoffs. In the offseason 
before the 2007 season, Williams traded away Freddy García to the Phillies 
and acquired prospects, Gavin Floyd and Gio Gonzalez, in return.[8] He 
also signed veteran free agent Darin Erstad to a one-year, $1 million contract.[9] 
Williams has also stated that the team needs to get younger and improve 
its scouting. In early January 2008, he traded Gio Gonzalez, Fautino de 
los Santos, and Ryan Sweeney for Nick Swisher. With pitcher Jake Peavy 
being acquired at the trade deadline for the 2009 season, Williams was 
referred to by Gordon Edes of Yahoo Sports as a "stealth bomber" for his 
under the radar moves.[10] On August 10, 2009, Williams made another under-the-radar 
move,[citation needed] by claiming OF Alex Ríos off the waivers from the 
Toronto Blue Jays. On September 29, 2011, Ozzie Guillén was traded to the 
Miami Marlins, along with minor league pitcher Ricardo Andres. The Marlins 
assumed the last year on Guillen's contract, in exchange for minor league 
pitchers Jhan Marinez and Osvaldo Martinez. On October 6, 2011, Kenny Williams 
hired Robin Ventura as the new manager of the Chicago White Sox. On October 
26, 2012, Williams was promoted to Executive Vice President of the Chicago 
White Sox while Assistant GM Rick Hahn was promoted to General Manager. 
Kenny resides in Naperville, Illinois. He has 5 children:[11][12][13] entrepreneur 
TeMeka C. Williams, former Professional Scout for the White Sox Dedrick 
Q. Williams,[14][15] former Wichita State University baseball player Kenny 
Williams, Jr. (a 2008 draftee of the White Sox) and now scout for the Arizona 
Diamondbacks, Kansas City Chiefs wide receiver Kyle Williams (also a 2006 
draftee of the White Sox), and Tyler Williams, who attended Chaparral High 
School in Scottsdale, Arizona (the same High school as White Sox first 
baseman Paul Konerko). Tyler is currently playing in the Chicago White 
Sox Farm System as a first baseman for the class A affiliate Kannapolis 
Intimidators.[16] Kenny also has one granddaughter. Kenny Williams is currently 
remarried.[17] Williams wed television journalist Zoraida Sambolin in July 
2014.[citation needed] Williams has two new step children, Sambolin's son 
