Kent Alan Hrbek (/ˈhɜːrbɛk/; born May 21, 1960 in Minneapolis, Minnesota), 
nicknamed Herbie, is a former American Major League Baseball first baseman. 
He played his entire 14-year baseball career for the Minnesota Twins (1981–1994). 
Hrbek batted left-handed and threw right-handed. He hit the first home 
run in the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome on April 3, 1982, in an exhibition 
game against the Phillies.[1] Fans knew Hrbek as an outstanding defensive 
player, perennial slugger, and charismatic hometown favorite. Former Twins 
pitcher Jim Kaat considered Hrbek to be the best defensive first baseman 
he had ever seen.[2] Hrbek attended Kennedy High School in Bloomington, 
Minnesota. Kent Hrbek was drafted by his hometown Minnesota Twins in the 
17th round of the 1978 Major League Baseball draft and spent the next three 
seasons working his way up the Twins' organizational ladder where he would 
hit 47 home runs and 111 runs batted in while hitting .318 in 253 minor 
league games. In 1979, Hrbek played 24 games for the rookie league Elizabethton 
Twins in the Appalachian Rookie League before spending the next two seasons 
playing A ball, first for the Wisconsin Rapids Twins in the Midwest League 
and then the Visalia Oaks in the California League.[3] Hrbek made his major 
league debut on August 24, 1981, at Yankee Stadium, hitting a game-winning 
home run in the 12th inning off New York reliever, and future Twin, George 
Frazier.[4] After his "cup of coffee" at the end of the '81 season, Hrbek 
would make the team out of spring training and come into his own in 1982, 
playing well for Twins manager Billy Gardner. Finishing his rookie season 
hitting .301 with 23 home runs and 92 RBI, Hrbek would finish second in 
the Rookie of the Year voting (to future Hall of Famer Cal Ripken, Jr.) 
and be selected to his only All-Star game.[5] Although the Twins would 
finish 60-102, Hrbek and fellow rookies Tim Laudner, Gary Gaetti, Tom Brunansky, 
Randy Bush, and Frank Viola would make up the nucleus of the 1987 World 
Series team. Falling off slightly in his sophomore year (.297, 16 HR, 84 
RBI), Hrbek would come up big in 1984, finishing the season hitting .311 
(his 2nd highest career batting average) with 27 HR (his 3rd highest total), 
107 RBI (his highest career total), 174 hits (his highest total), and 80 
runs (his third highest total). During arguably his career year, Hrbek 
would power the Twins all season and the team would surprise the rest of 
the American League West by battling for the division crown. Although the 
team was as close as 0.5 games out of first place at 81-75, the Twins faded 
fast, losing their last six games and finishing in a tie with the California 
Angels, three games behind the Kansas City Royals. After the season, Hrbek 
was recognized for his performance, and the team's surprise September run, 
by his finishing second in the American League Most Valuable Player balloting 
to Detroit Tigers' closer Willie Hernández. Some of his most memorable 
moments were during the 1987 season. He hit a career best 34 home runs 
to help the Twins win the AL West. Although he hit only .208, Hrbek was 
instrumental in capturing the World Series Championship, as he hit a grand 
slam in Game 6 off Cardinals reliever Ken Dayley that essentially sealed 
the win for the Twins. In 1991 he again helped the Twins to win the World 
Series after having a typical Hrbek season – hitting .284 with 20 home 
runs and 84 RBI. The Twins had finished the previous season in last place, 
as had their Series opponent the Atlanta Braves, which prompted the media 
to coin the phrase "Worst to First World Series". Hrbek's offense turned 
stale after his home run in Game 1 and he hit only .115 for the series 
with the one home run and 2 RBI. However, in Game 7, with the score still 
tied 0-0 in the 8th inning, Hrbek executed a very uncommon 3-2-3 bases-loaded 
double play with catcher Brian Harper that saved the Twins against the 
Braves' biggest threat of the game. The Twins eventually won the game 1-0, 
with Gene Larkin hitting a bases-loaded single to center field that scored 
Dan Gladden in the bottom of the 10th inning. Hrbek was involved in a controversial 
play with Ron Gant in Game 2 of the 1991 Series. While Gant was coming 
back to first base after widely rounding the base on a single, Hrbek applied 
a tag on Gant's leg and Gant ran into Hrbek. The umpire, Drew Coble, called 
Gant out, ruling that forward progress would have caused Gant to step off 
the bag.[6] Gant angrily disputed the call and had to be restrained when 
Coble refused to change it. The move was later nicknamed the "T-Rex Tag", 
after Hrbek jokingly speculated on a post-baseball career in professional 
wrestling using the name Tyrannosaurus Rex. When the Series moved to Atlanta, 
Braves fans jeered him, and Hrbek received much hate mail, including a 
death threat.[7] Although he was a key part of both World Series teams, 
Hrbek was largely ineffective at the plate, hitting only .154 in 24 post-season 
games with only 3 home runs and 12 RBI. Hrbek was one of seven Twins to 
be part of both the 1987 and 1991 World Series teams. The other six were 
Randy Bush, Greg Gagne, Kirby Puckett, Al Newman, Gene Larkin, who made 
the winning hit in Game 7 of the 1991 series, and Dan Gladden, who was 
the runner Larkin scored with that hit. Frequently injured (though seldom 
seriously), Hrbek retired after the players strike in 1994, citing his 
nagging injury problems and desire to spend more time with his wife and 
daughter at their home in Bloomington, Minnesota. Despite operating in 
the same lineup as Kirby Puckett for all but two years of his career, and 
his long and close association with Puckett, Hrbek's numbers never approached 
those of the center fielder, and it is generally agreed that his career, 
while long and productive, was not Baseball Hall of Fame material – on 
the list of similar good-but-not-great players such as Eric Karros, Will 
Clark, Greg Luzinski, David Justice, and Vic Wertz.[8] In 2000, his first 
year of Hall of Fame eligibility, Hrbek garnered only 5 votes, nowhere 
near the 5% minimum threshold for continued eligibility, and is thus ineligible 
for the Hall of Fame unless voted in by the Veterans Committee. His first 
year of Veterans' Committee eligibility was 2015. Kent Hrbek's number 14 
was retired by the Twins in 1995, becoming at the time only the fourth 
(along with Harmon Killebrew, Rod Carew, and Tony Oliva) in franchise history. 
Hrbek was also inducted into the Minnesota Sports Hall of Fame in 1996. 
He was also one of few players then (which is even rarer today) who played 
out his entire career with only one team. In 2000, the Twins established 
their own "Minnesota Twins Hall of Fame" and Hrbek was one of six former 
Twins inducted into the initial class. The 2000 class also included MLB 
Hall of Famers Rod Carew, Harmon Killebrew and Kirby Puckett, player and 
Twins coach Tony Oliva, and former owner Calvin Griffith. Hrbek is an avid 
hunter and fisherman, particularly in his home state of Minnesota. He hosted 
an outdoor sports program on FOX 9 called Kent Hrbek Outdoors for six years 
ending in 2009.[9] Hrbek is a perennial pitchman for Twin Cities-area HVAC 
company Carrier Heating and Air Conditioning. He has a series of baseball 
fields named after him in his hometown of Bloomington. Since Kent Hrbek's 
father died of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS, or Lou Gehrig's disease) 
in 1982, he has worked to increase awareness of the disease. Hrbek hosts 
an annual charity golf tournament in Minnesota to raise money for ALS research, 
and makes many public appearances on behalf of the cause. He also participates 
in an annual fundraising event called the "Black Woods Blizzard Tour", 
a snowmobile excursion around northern Minnesota that raises money to fight 
