Kentucky (i/kənˈtʌki/, kən-TU-kee), officially the Commonwealth of Kentucky, 
is a state located in the east south-central region of the United States. 
Kentucky is one of four U.S. states constituted as a commonwealth (the 
others being Virginia, Pennsylvania, and Massachusetts). Originally a part 
of Virginia, in 1792 Kentucky became the 15th state to join the Union. 
Kentucky is the 37th most extensive and the 26th most populous of the 50 
United States. Kentucky is known as the "Bluegrass State", a nickname based 
on the bluegrass found in many of its pastures due to the fertile soil. 
One of the major regions in Kentucky is the Bluegrass Region in central 
Kentucky, which houses two of its major cities, Louisville and Lexington. 
It is a land with diverse environments and abundant resources, including 
the world's longest cave system, Mammoth Cave National Park, the greatest 
length of navigable waterways and streams in the contiguous United States, 
and the two largest man-made lakes east of the Mississippi River. Kentucky 
is also known for horse racing, bourbon distilleries, coal, the historic 
site My Old Kentucky Home, automobile manufacturing, tobacco, bluegrass 
music, college basketball, and Kentucky Fried Chicken. In 1776, the counties 
of Virginia beyond the Appalachian Mountains became known as Kentucky County,[5] 
named for the Kentucky River.[citation needed] The precise etymology of 
the name is uncertain,[6] but likely based on an Iroquoian name meaning 
"(on) the meadow" or "(on) the prairie"[7][8] (cf. Mohawk kenhtà:ke, Seneca 
gëdá’geh (phonemic /kẽtaʔkeh/), "at the field").[9] Kentucky is situated 
in the Upland South.[10][11] A significant portion of eastern Kentucky 
is part of Appalachia. Kentucky borders seven states, from the Midwest 
and the Southeast. West Virginia lies to the east, Virginia to the southeast, 
Tennessee to the south, Missouri to the west, Illinois and Indiana to the 
northwest, and Ohio to the north and northeast. Only Missouri and Tennessee, 
both of which border eight states, touch more. Kentucky's northern border 
is formed by the Ohio River and its western border by the Mississippi River. 
The official state borders are based on the courses of the rivers as they 
existed when Kentucky became a state in 1792. In several places, the rivers 
have changed courses away from the original borders. For instance, northbound 
travelers on U.S. 41 from Henderson, after crossing the Ohio River, will 
be in Kentucky for about two miles (3.2 km). Ellis Park, a thoroughbred 
racetrack, is located in this small piece of Kentucky. Waterworks Road 
is part of the only land border between Indiana and Kentucky.[12] Kentucky 
has a non-contiguous part known as Kentucky Bend, at the far west corner 
of the state. It exists as an exclave surrounded completely by Missouri 
and Tennessee, and is included in the boundaries of Fulton County. Road 
access to this small part of Kentucky on the Mississippi River (populated 
by only 18 people as of 2010)[13] requires a trip through Tennessee. The 
epicenter of the powerful 1811–1812 New Madrid Earthquakes was near this 
area, even causing the river to flow backwards in some places. Though the 
series of quakes did change the area geologically and affect the (small 
number of) inhabitants of the area at the time, the Kentucky Bend was formed 
because of a surveying error, not the New Madrid Earthquake.[14] Kentucky 
can be divided into five primary regions: the Cumberland Plateau in the 
east, the north-central Bluegrass region, the south-central and western 
Pennyroyal Plateau (also known as the Pennyrile or Mississippi Plateau), 
the Western Coal Fields and the far-west Jackson Purchase. The Bluegrass 
region is commonly divided into two regions, the Inner Bluegrass—the encircling 
90 miles (145 km) around Lexington—and the Outer Bluegrass—the region that 
contains most of the northern portion of the state, above the Knobs. Much 
of the outer Bluegrass is in the Eden Shale Hills area, made up of short, 
steep, and very narrow hills. The Jackson Purchase and western Pennyrile 
are home to several bald cypress/tupelo swamps. Located within the southeastern 
interior portion of North America, Kentucky has a climate that can best 
be described as a humid subtropical climate (Koppen Cfa). Temperatures 
in Kentucky usually range from daytime summer highs of 87 °F (31 °C) to 
the winter low of 23 °F (−5 °C). The average precipitation is 46 inches 
(1,200 mm) a year.[15] Kentucky experiences four distinct seasons, with 
substantial variations in the severity of summer and winter.[16] The highest 
recorded temperature was 114 °F (46 °C) at Greensburg on July 28, 1930 
while the lowest recorded temperature was −37 °F (−38 °C) at Shelbyville 
on January 19, 1994. Due to its location, Kentucky has a moderate humid 
subtropical climate, with abundant rainfall. It has four distinct seasons, 
but rarely experiences the extreme cold as far northern states, nor the 
high heat of the states in the Deep South. Temperatures extremely seldom 
drop below 0 degrees or rise above 100 degrees. Rain- and snowfall totals 
about 45 inches per year. There are also big variations in climate within 
the state. The northern parts tend to be about 5 degrees cooler than those 
in western parts of the state. Somerset in the south-central part receives 
10 more inches of rain per year than for instance Covington to the north. 
Average temperatures for the entire Commonwealth go from the low 30s in 
January to the high 70s in mid-July. The annual average temperature varies 
from 55–60 degrees: 55 in the far north as an average annual temperature 
and 60 degrees in the extreme southwest.[17][18] In general, Kentuckians 
experience relatively humid warm rainy summers, and moderately cold and 
snowy winters. Mean maximum temperatures in July vary from 83 to 90 degrees; 
the mean minimum July temperatures vary from 61 to 69 degrees. In January 
the mean maximum temperatures range from 36 to 44 degrees; the mean minimum 
temperatures range from 36 to 44 degrees. Temperature means vary with northern 
and far-eastern mountain-regions averaging five degrees cooler year-round, 
compared to the relatively warmer areas of the southern- and western region 
of the state. Precipitation also varies north to south with the north averaging 
38 to 40 inches, and the south averaging 50 inches. Days per year below 
the freezing point vary from about sixty days in the southwest to more 
than a hundred days in the far-north and far-east.[19] Kentucky has more 
navigable miles of water than any other state in the union, other than 
Alaska.[20] Kentucky is the only U.S. state to have a continuous border 
of rivers running along three of its sides—the Mississippi River to the 
west, the Ohio River to the north, and the Big Sandy River and Tug Fork 
to the east.[21] Its major internal rivers include the Kentucky River, 
Tennessee River, Cumberland River, Green River and Licking River. Though 
it has only three major natural lakes,[22] Kentucky is home to many artificial 
lakes. Kentucky has both the largest artificial lake east of the Mississippi 
in water volume (Lake Cumberland) and surface area (Kentucky Lake). Kentucky 
Lake's 2,064 miles (3,322 km) of shoreline, 160,300 acres (64,900 ha) of 
water surface, and 4,008,000 acre feet (4,944 Gl) of flood storage are 
the most of any lake in the TVA system.[23] Kentucky's 90,000 miles (140,000 km) 
of streams provides one of the most expansive and complex stream systems 
in the nation.[24] Kentucky has an expansive park system, which includes 
one national park, two National Recreation areas, two National Historic 
Parks, two national forests, two National Wildlife Refuges, 45 state parks, 
37,696 acres (153 km2) of state forest, and 82 Wildlife Management Areas. 
Kentucky has been part of two of the most successful wildlife reintroduction 
projects in United States history. In the winter of 1997, the Kentucky 
Department of Fish and Wildlife Resources began to re-stock elk in the 
state's eastern counties, which had been extinct from the area for over 
150 years. As of 2009, the herd had reached the project goal of 10,000 
animals, making it the largest herd east of the Mississippi River.[25] 
The state also stocked wild turkeys in the 1950s. There were reported to 
be less than 900 at one point. Once nearly extinct here, wild turkeys thrive 
throughout today's Kentucky.[26] Hunters officially reported a record 29,006 
birds taken during the 23-day season in Spring 2009.[27] A female gray 
wolf shot in 2013 in Hart County, Kentucky by a hunter was the first verified 
sighting of the species in Kentucky in modern times.[28] In about the 10th 
century, the Kentucky's natives' variety of corn became highly productive, 
supplanting the Eastern Agricultural Complex, and replaced it with a maize-based 
agriculture in the Mississippian era. French explorers in the 17th century 
documented numerous tribes living in Kentucky until the Beaver Wars in 
the 1670s. However, by the time that European colonial explorers and settlers 
began entering Kentucky in greater numbers in the mid-18th century, there 
were no major Native American settlements in the region. The Iroquois had 
controlled much of the Ohio River valley for hunting from their bases in 
what is now New York. The Shawnee from the northwest and Cherokee from 
the south also sent parties into the area regularly for hunting. As more 
settlers entered the area, warfare broke out because the Native Americans 
considered the settlers to be encroaching on their traditional hunting 
grounds.[34] Today there are two state recognized tribes in Kentucky, the 
Southern Cherokee Nation of Kentucky and the Ridgetop Shawnee.[35][36] 
A 1790 U.S. government report states that 1,500 Kentucky settlers had been 
killed by Native Americans since the end of the Revolutionary War.[37] 
In 1786, George Rogers Clark led a group of 1,200 men in actions against 
Shawnee towns on the Wabash River to begin the Northwest Indian War.[38] 
On December 31, 1776, the region of Virginia beyond the Appalachian Mountains 
was established as Kentucky County by the Virginia General Assembly.[5] 
(Kentucky County was abolished on June 30, 1780, when it was divided into 
Fayette, Jefferson, and Lincoln counties.) On several occasions the region's 
residents petitioned the General Assembly and the Confederation Congress 
for separation from Virginia and statehood. Ten constitutional conventions 
were held in Danville between 1784 and 1792. One petition, which had Virginia's 
assent, came before the Confederation Congress in early July 1788. Unfortunately, 
its consideration came up a day after word of New Hampshire's all-important 
ninth ratification of the proposed Constitution, thus establishing it as 
the new framework of governance for the United States. In light of this 
development, Congress thought that it would be "unadvisable" to admit Kentucky 
into the Union, as it could do so "under the Articles of Confederation" 
only, but not "under the Constitution", and so declined to take action.[39] 
On December 18, 1789 Virginia again gave its consent to Kentucky statehood. 
The United States Congress gave its approval on February 4, 1791.[40] (This 
occurred two weeks before Congress approved Vermont's petition for statehood.[41]) 
Kentucky officially became the fifteenth state in the Union on June 1, 
1792. Isaac Shelby, a military veteran from Virginia, was elected its first 
Governor.[42] Central Kentucky, the bluegrass region, was the area of the 
state with the most slave owners, as planters cultivated tobacco and hemp 
and were noted for their quality livestock. During the 19th century, Kentucky 
slaveholders began to sell unneeded slaves to the Deep South, with Louisville 
becoming a major slave market and departure port for slaves being transported 
downriver. Kentucky was one of the border states during the American Civil 
War.[43] Although frequently described as never having seceded, representatives 
from several counties met at Russellville calling themselves the "Convention 
of the People of Kentucky" and passed an Ordinance of Secession on November 
20, 1861.[44] They established a Confederate government of Kentucky with 
its capital in Bowling Green.[45] Though Kentucky was represented by the 
central star on the Confederate battle flag,[46] it remained officially 
"neutral" throughout the war due to the Union sympathies of a significant 
number of the Commonwealth's citizens. Some 21st-century Kentuckians observe 
Confederate Memorial Day on Confederate President Jefferson Davis' birthday, 
June 3, and participate in Confederate battle re-enactments.[47][48] Both 
Confederate President Jefferson Davis and U.S. President Abraham Lincoln 
were born in Kentucky. On January 30, 1900, Governor William Goebel, flanked 
by two bodyguards, was mortally wounded by an assassin while walking to 
the State Capitol in downtown Frankfort. Goebel was contesting the Kentucky 
gubernatorial election of 1899, which William S. Taylor was initially believed 
to have won. For several months, J. C. W. Beckham, Goebel's running mate, 
and Taylor fought over who was the legal governor, until the Supreme Court 
of the United States ruled in May in favor of Beckham. After fleeing to 
Indiana, Taylor was indicted as a co-conspirator in Goebel's assassination. 
Goebel is the only governor of a U.S. state to have been assassinated while 
in office.[49] The Black Patch Tobacco Wars, a vigilante action, occurred 
in Western Kentucky in the early 20th century. As a result of the tobacco 
industry monopoly, tobacco farmers in the area were forced to sell their 
crops at prices that were too low. Many local farmers and activists united 
in a refusal to sell their crops to the major tobacco companies. An Association 
meeting occurred in downtown Guthrie,[50] where a vigilante wing of "Night 
Riders", formed. The riders terrorized farmers who sold their tobacco at 
the low prices demanded by the tobacco corporations. They burned several 
tobacco warehouses throughout the area, stretching as far west as Hopkinsville 
to Princeton. In the later period of their operation, they were known to 
physically assault farmers who broke the boycott. Governor Augustus E. 
Willson declared martial law and deployed the Kentucky National Guard to 
end the wars. Kentucky is one of four U.S. states to officially use the 
term commonwealth. The term was used for Kentucky as it had also been used 
by Virginia, from which Kentucky was created. The term has no particular 
significance in its meaning and was chosen to emphasize the distinction 
from the status of royal colonies as a place governed for the general welfare 
of the populace.[51] The commonwealth term was used in citizen petitions 
submitted between 1786 and 1792 for the creation of the state.[citation 
needed] It was also used in the title of a history of the state that was 
published in 1834 and was used in various places within that book in references 
to Virginia and Kentucky.[52] The other two states officially called "commonwealths" 
are Massachusetts and Pennsylvania. Kentucky is one of only five states 
that elects its state officials in odd-numbered years (the others being 
Louisiana, Mississippi, New Jersey, and Virginia). Kentucky holds elections 
for these offices every 4 years in the years preceding Presidential election 
years. Thus, Kentucky held gubernatorial elections in 2011 and 2015. The 
executive branch is headed by the governor who serves as both head of state 
and head of government. The lieutenant governor may or may not have executive 
authority depending on whether the person is a member of the Governor's 
cabinet. Under the current Kentucky Constitution, the lieutenant governor 
assumes the duties of the governor only if the governor is incapacitated. 
(Before 1992 the lieutenant governor assumed power any time the governor 
was out of the state.) The governor and lieutenant governor usually run 
on a single ticket (also per a 1992 constitutional amendment), and are 
elected to four-year terms. The current governor is Republican Matt Bevin, 
and the lieutenant governor is Jenean Hampton. Other elected constitutional 
offices include the Secretary of State, Attorney General, Auditor of Public 
Accounts, State Treasurer and Commissioner of Agriculture. Currently, Democrat 
Alison Lundergan Grimes serves as the Secretary of State. The commonwealth's 
chief prosecutor, law enforcement officer, and law officer is the Attorney 
General, currently Democrat Andy Beshear. The Auditor of Public Accounts 
is Republican Mike Harmon. Republican Allison Ball is the current Treasurer. 
Republican Ryan Quarles is the current Commissioner of Agriculture. Kentucky's 
legislative branch consists of a bicameral body known as the Kentucky General 
Assembly. The Senate is considered the upper house. It has 38 members, 
and is led by the President of the Senate, currently Robert Stivers (R). 
The House of Representatives has 100 members, and is led by the Speaker 
of the House, currently Greg Stumbo (D). The judicial branch of Kentucky 
is called the Kentucky Court of Justice and comprises courts of limited 
jurisdiction called District Courts; courts of general jurisdiction called 
Circuit Courts; specialty courts such as Drug Court, Family Court; an intermediate 
appellate court, the Kentucky Court of Appeals; and a court of last resort, 
the Kentucky Supreme Court. The Kentucky Court of Justice is headed by 
the Chief Justice of the Commonwealth. Unlike federal judges, who are usually 
appointed, justices serving on Kentucky state courts are chosen by the 
state's populace in non-partisan elections. Kentucky's two U.S. Senators 
are Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Rand Paul, both Republicans. 
The state is divided into six Congressional Districts, represented by Republicans 
James Comer (1st), Brett Guthrie (2nd), Thomas Massie (4th), Hal Rogers 
(5th) and Andy Barr (6th) and Democrat John Yarmuth (3rd). In the federal 
judiciary, Kentucky is served by two United States district courts: the 
Eastern District of Kentucky, with its primary seat in Lexington, and the 
Western District of Kentucky, with its primary seat in Louisville. Appeals 
are heard in the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, based in Cincinnati, 
Ohio. Kentucky's body of laws, known as the Kentucky Revised Statutes (KRS), 
were enacted in 1942 to better organize and clarify the whole of Kentucky 
law.[53] The statutes are enforced by local police, sheriffs and deputy 
sheriffs, and constables and deputy constables. Unless they have completed 
a police academy elsewhere, these officers are required to complete training 
at the Kentucky Department of Criminal Justice Training Center on the campus 
of Eastern Kentucky University.[54] Additionally, in 1948, the Kentucky 
General Assembly established the Kentucky State Police, making it the 38th 
state to create a force whose jurisdiction extends throughout the given 
state.[55] Kentucky is one of the 32 states in the United States that sanctions 
the death penalty for certain murders defined as heinous. Those convicted 
of capital crimes after March 31, 1998 are always executed by lethal injection; 
those convicted on or before this date may opt for the electric chair.[56] 
Only three people have been executed in Kentucky since the U.S. Supreme 
Court re-instituted the practice in 1976. The most notable execution in 
Kentucky was that of Rainey Bethea on August 14, 1936. Bethea was publicly 
hanged in Owensboro for the rape and murder of Lischia Edwards.[57] Irregularities 
with the execution led to this becoming the last public execution in the 
United States.[58] Kentucky has been on the front lines of the debate over 
displaying the Ten Commandments on public property. In the 2005 case of 
McCreary County v. ACLU of Kentucky, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the 
decision of the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals that a display of the Ten 
Commandments in the Whitley City courthouse of McCreary County was unconstitutional.[59] 
Later that year, Judge Richard Fred Suhrheinrich, writing for the Sixth 
Circuit Court of Appeals in the case of ACLU of Kentucky v. Mercer County, 
wrote that a display including the Mayflower Compact, the Declaration of 
Independence, the Ten Commandments, the Magna Carta, The Star-Spangled 
Banner, and the national motto could be erected in the Mercer County courthouse.[60] 
Kentucky has also been known to have unusually high political candidacy 
age laws, especially compared to surrounding states. The origin of this 
is unknown, but it has been suggested[by whom?] it has to do with the commonwealth 
tradition. A 2008 study found that Kentucky's Supreme Court to be the least 
influential high court in the nation with its decisions rarely being followed 
by other states.[61] Where politics are concerned, Kentucky historically 
has been very hard-fought and leaned slightly toward the Democratic Party 
since 1860, when the Whig Party dissolved. The state was not included among 
the "Solid South" as the eastern section tended to support Republican candidates. 
As of October 2016, 51.23% of the state's voters were officially registered 
as Democrats, 40.47% were registered Republican, and 8.30% were registered 
with some other political party or as independents.[63] Despite this, the 
state often supports Republican candidates for federal offices. From 1964 
through 2004, Kentucky voted for the eventual winner of the election for 
President of the United States. In the 2008 election, however, the state 
lost its bellwether status when John McCain, who won Kentucky, lost the 
national popular and electoral vote to Barack Obama (McCain carried Kentucky 
57 to 41%).116 of Kentucky's 120 counties supported former Massachusetts 
Governor Mitt Romney in the 2012 election while he lost to Barack Obama 
nationwide.[64][65] The Commonwealth supported the previous three Democratic 
candidates elected to the White House, all elected from Southern states: 
Lyndon B. Johnson (Texas) in 1964, Jimmy Carter (Georgia) in 1976, and 
Bill Clinton (Arkansas) in 1992 and 1996. In recent presidential elections, 
the state has become a Republican stronghold, supporting that party's presidential 
candidates by double-digit margins from 2000 through 2012. At the same 
time, it has continued to elect Democratic candidates to state and local 
office in many jurisdictions. The United States Census Bureau estimates 
that the population of Kentucky was 4,425,092 on July 1, 2015, a 1.98% 
increase since the 2010 United States Census.[2] As of July 1, 2015, Kentucky 
had an estimated population of 4,425,092, which is an increase of 11,635, 
from the prior year and an increase of 85,725, or 1.98%, since the year 
2010. This includes a natural increase since the last census of 77,156 
people (that is 287,222 births minus 210,066 deaths) and an increase due 
to net migration of 59,604 people into the state. Immigration from outside 
the United States resulted in a net increase of 27,435 people, and migration 
within the country produced a net increase of 32,169 people. As of 2004, 
Kentucky's population included about 95,000 foreign-born persons (2.3%). 
In 2008, the population density of the state was 101.7 people per square 
mile. (39.7/km²)[68] In 2015, the population density of the state was 110 
people per square mile (42.5/km²).[2] Kentucky's total population has grown 
during every decade since records began. However, during most decades of 
the 20th century there was also net out-migration from Kentucky. Since 
1900, rural Kentucky counties have experienced a net loss of over 1 million 
people from migration, while urban areas have experienced a slight net 
gain.[69] The center of population of Kentucky is located in Washington 
County, in the city of Willisburg.[70] According to U.S. Census Bureau 
official statistics, the largest ancestry in 2013 was American totalling 
20.2%.[75] In 1980, before the status of ethnic American was an available 
option on the official census, the largest ancestries in the commonwealth 
were English (49.6%), Irish (26.3%), and German (24.2%)[76][77][78][79][80][81][82] 
In the state's most urban counties of Jefferson, Oldham, Fayette, Boone, 
Kenton, and Campbell, German is the largest reported ancestry. Americans 
of Scots-Irish and English stock are present throughout the entire state. 
Many claim Irish ancestry because of known "Scots-Irish" among their ancestors, 
who were descendants of immigrants from Scotland, via some years in Ireland. 
Southeastern Kentucky was populated by a large group of multi-racial settlers, 
sometimes called Melungeons, in the early 19th century. As of the 1980s 
the only counties in the United States where over half of the population 
cited "English" as their only ancestry group were all in the hills of eastern 
Kentucky (and made up virtually every county in this region).[83] Groups 
such as the Ridgetop Shawnee in the early 21st century organised as a non-profit 
to increase awareness of Native Americans in Kentucky. In the 2000 census, 
there were 20,000 people in the state who identified as Native American 
(0.49%). In June 2011, Jerry "2 Feather" Thornton, a Cherokee, led a team 
in the Voyage of Native American Awareness 2011 canoe journey, to begin 
on the Green River in Rochester, Kentucky and travel through to the Ohio 
River at Henderson.[84] African Americans, who made up 25% of Kentucky's 
population before the Civil War, primarily in the Bluegrass region, declined 
in number during the 20th century. Many migrated to the industrial North 
and Midwest in the Great Migration for jobs. Today, less than 9% of the 
state's total population is African American, and it is highly urbanized, 
concentrated near Louisville. 52% of the state's African-American population 
is in the Louisville Metro Area; 44.2% is in Jefferson County. The county 
had a population that is 20% African American. Other areas with high concentrations, 
beside Christian and Fulton counties and the Bluegrass region, are the 
cities of Paducah and Lexington. Some mining communities in far Southeastern 
Kentucky have populations that are between five and 10 percent African 
American. In 2000, 96.1% of all residents five years old and older spoke 
only English at home, a decrease from 97.5% in 1990.[85] Speech patterns 
in the state generally reflect the first settlers' Virginia and Kentucky 
backgrounds. South Midland features are best preserved in the mountains, 
but some common to Midland and Southern are widespread.[85] After a vowel, 
the /r/ may be weak or missing. For instance, Coop has the vowel of put, 
but the root rhymes with boot. In southern Kentucky, earthworms are called 
redworms, a burlap bag is known as a tow sack or the Southern grass sack, 
and green beans are called snap beans. In Kentucky English, a young man 
may carry, not escort, his girlfriend to a party.[85] Spanish is the second-most-spoken 
language in Kentucky, after English.[85] As of 2010, the Association of 
Religion Data Archives (ARDA)[86] reported the following groupings of Kentucky's 
4,339,367 residents: Kentucky is home to several seminaries. Southern Baptist 
Theological Seminary in Louisville is the principal seminary for the Southern 
Baptist Convention. Louisville is also the home of the Louisville Presbyterian 
Theological Seminary, an institution of the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.). 
Lexington has two seminaries, Lexington Theological Seminary (affiliated 
with the Disciples of Christ), and the Baptist Seminary of Kentucky. Asbury 
Theological Seminary, a multi-denominational seminary in the Methodist 
tradition, is located in nearby Wilmore. In addition to seminaries, there 
are several colleges affiliated with denominations: Louisville is home 
to the headquarters of the Presbyterian Church (USA) and their printing 
press. Louisville also has Muslim,[87] Jewish, and Hindu communities. The 
Christian creationist apologetics group Answers in Genesis, along with 
its Creation Museum, is headquartered in Petersburg, Kentucky. Early in 
its history Kentucky gained recognition for its excellent farming conditions. 
It was the site of the first commercial winery in the United States (started 
in present-day Jessamine County in 1799) and due to the high calcium content 
of the soil in the Bluegrass region quickly became a major horse breeding 
(and later racing) area. Today Kentucky ranks 5th nationally in goat farming, 
8th in beef cattle production,[88] and 14th in corn production.[89] Kentucky 
has also been a long-standing major center of the tobacco industry – both 
as a center of business and tobacco farming. Today Kentucky's economy has 
expanded to importance in non agricultural terms as well, especially in 
auto manufacturing, energy fuel production, and medical facilities. Kentucky 
ranks 4th among U.S. states in the number of automobiles and trucks assembled.[90] 
The Chevrolet Corvette, Cadillac XLR (2004–2009), Ford Escape, Ford Super 
Duty trucks, Ford Expedition, Lincoln Navigator, Toyota Camry,[91] Toyota 
Avalon,[91] Toyota Solara, Toyota Venza,[91] and Lexus ES 350[91] are assembled 
in Kentucky. Kentucky has historically been a major coal producer, but 
employment by "King Coal" has been in a 30-year decline there, and the 
number of people employed in the coal industry there dropped by more than 
half between 2011 and 2015.[91] As of 2010, 24% of electricity produced 
in the U.S. depended on either enriched uranium rods coming from the Paducah 
Gaseous Diffusion Plant (the only domestic site of low grade uranium enrichment), 
or from the 107,336 tons of coal extracted from the state's two coal fields 
(which combined produce 4% percent of the electricity in the United States).[92] 
Kentucky produces 95% of the world's supply of bourbon whiskey, and number 
of barrels of bourbon being aged in Kentucky (more than 5.7 million) exceeds 
the state's population.[91][93] Bourbon has been a growing market – with 
production of Kentucky bourbon rising 170 percent between 1999 and 2015.[91] 
Kentucky exports reached a record $22.1 billion in 2012, with products 
and services going to 199 countries.[94] According to the Kentucky Cabinet 
for Economic Development, the primary state agency in Kentucky responsible 
for creating new jobs and new investment in the state, new business investment 
in Kentucky in 2012 totaled nearly $2.7 billion, with the creation of more 
than 14,000 new jobs. One such investment was L'Oréal in Northern Kentucky, 
which added 200 jobs on top of the 280 already in existing facilities in 
Florence and Walton.[95] Fort Knox, a United States Army post best known 
as the site of the U.S. Bullion Depository, which is used to house a large 
portion of the United States official gold reserves, is located in Kentucky 
between Louisville and Elizabethtown. In May 2010, the Army Human Resource 
Center of Excellence, the largest office building in the state at nearly 
900,000-square-feet, opened at Fort Knox. The new complex employs nearly 
4,300 soldiers and civilians.[96] Kentucky contains two of the twenty U.S. 
Federal Penitentiaries – USP Big Sandy (in the east in Martin County near 
Inez) and USP McCreary (in the south in McCreary County in the Daniel Boone 
National Forest). The total gross state product for 2010 was $163.3 billion, 
28th in the nation.[97] Its per-capita personal income was US$28,513, 43rd 
in the nation.[98] An organization called the Institute for Truth in Accounting 
estimated that the state government's debts exceeded its available assets 
by US$26,300 per taxpayer as of 2011, ranking the state as having the 5th 
highest such debt burden in the nation.[99] As of September 2016, the state's 
unemployment rate is 5%.[100] In 2014, Kentucky was found to be the most 
affordable U.S. state in which to live.[101] There are 6 income tax brackets, 
ranging from 2% to 6% of personal income.[102] The sales tax rate in Kentucky 
is 6%.[103] Kentucky has a broadly based classified property tax system. 
All classes of property, unless exempted by the Constitution, are taxed 
by the state, although at widely varying rates.[104] Many of these classes 
are exempted from taxation by local government. Of the classes that are 
subject to local taxation, three have special rates set by the General 
Assembly, one by the Kentucky Supreme Court and the remaining classes are 
subject to the full local rate, which includes the tax rate set by the 
local taxing bodies plus all voted levies. Real property is assessed on 
100% of the fair market value and property taxes are due by December 31. 
Once the primary source of state and local government revenue, property 
taxes now account for only about 6% of the Kentucky's annual General Fund 
revenues.[105] Until January 1, 2006, Kentucky imposed a tax on intangible 
personal property held by a taxpayer on January 1 of each year. The Kentucky 
intangible tax was repealed under House Bill 272.[106] Intangible property 
consisted of any property or investment that represents evidence of value 
or the right to value. Some types of intangible property included: bonds, 
notes, retail repurchase agreements, accounts receivable, trusts, enforceable 
contracts sale of real estate (land contracts), money in hand, money in 
safe deposit boxes, annuities, interests in estates, loans to stockholders, 
and commercial paper. In December 2002, the Kentucky governor Paul Patton 
unveiled the state slogan "It's that friendly",[107] in hope of drawing 
more people into the state based on the idea of southern hospitality. This 
campaign was neither a failure nor a success.[citation needed] Though it 
was meant to embrace southern values, many Kentuckians rejected the slogan 
as cheesy and ineffective.[107] It was quickly seen that the slogan did 
not encourage tourism as much as initially hoped for. So government decided 
to create a different slogan to embrace Kentucky as a whole while also 
encouraging more people to visit the Bluegrass.[108] In 2004, then Governor 
Ernie Fletcher launched a comprehensive branding campaign with the hope 
of making the state's $12–14 million advertising budget more effective.[109] 
The resulting "Unbridled Spirit" brand was the result of a $500,000 contract 
with New West, a Kentucky-based public relations advertising and marketing 
firm, to develop a viable brand and tag line.[110] The Fletcher administration 
aggressively marketed the brand in both the public and private sectors. 
Since that time, the "Welcome to Kentucky" signs at border areas have an 
"Unbridled Spirit" symbol on them. Kentucky is served by six major interstate 
highways (I-24, I-64, I-65, I-69, I-71, and I-75), nine parkways, and four 
bypasses and spurs (I-264, I-265, I-275, and I-471). The parkways were 
originally toll roads, but on November 22, 2006, Governor Ernie Fletcher 
ended the toll charges on the William H. Natcher Parkway and the Audubon 
Parkway, the last two parkways in Kentucky to charge tolls for access.[111] 
The related toll booths have been demolished.[112] Ending the tolls some 
seven months ahead of schedule was generally agreed to have been a positive 
economic development for transportation in Kentucky. In June 2007, a law 
went into effect raising the speed limit on rural portions of Kentucky 
Interstates from 65 to 70 miles per hour (105 to 113 km/h).[113] Road tunnels 
include the interstate Cumberland Gap Tunnel and the rural Nada Tunnel. 
Amtrak, the national passenger rail system, provides service to Ashland, 
South Portsmouth, Maysville and Fulton. The Cardinal (trains 50 and 51) 
is the line that offers Amtrak service to Ashland, South Shore, Maysville 
and South Portsmouth. The City of New Orleans (trains 58 and 59) serve 
Fulton. The Northern Kentucky area is served by the Cardinal at the Cincinnati 
Museum Center at Union Terminal. The Museum Center is just across the Ohio 
River in Cincinnati. As of 2004, there were approximately 2,640 miles (4,250 km) 
of railways in Kentucky, with about 65% of those being operated by CSX 
Transportation. Coal was by far the most common cargo, accounting for 76% 
of cargo loaded and 61% of cargo delivered.[114] Bardstown features a tourist 
attraction known as My Old Kentucky Dinner Train. Run along a 20-mile (30 km) 
stretch of rail purchased from CSX in 1987, guests are served a four-course 
meal as they make a two-and-a-half hour round-trip between Bardstown and 
Limestone Springs.[115] The Kentucky Railway Museum is located in nearby 
New Haven.[116] Other areas in Kentucky are reclaiming old railways in 
rail trail projects. One such project is Louisville's Big Four Bridge. 
When the bridge's Indiana approach ramps opened in 2014, completing the 
pedestrian connection across the Ohio River, the Big Four Bridge rail trail 
became the second-longest pedestrian-only bridge in the world.[117] The 
longest pedestrian-only bridge is also found in Kentucky—the Newport Southbank 
Bridge, popularly known as the "Purple People Bridge", connecting Newport 
to Cincinnati, Ohio.[118] Kentucky's primary airports include Louisville 
International Airport (Standiford Field (SDF)) of Louisville, Cincinnati/Northern 
Kentucky International Airport (CVG) of Cincinnati/Covington, and Blue 
Grass Airport (LEX) in Lexington. Louisville International Airport is home 
to UPS's Worldport, its international air-sorting hub.[119] Also, Cincinnati/Northern 
Kentucky International Airport is the largest airport in the state, although 
it serves Cincinnati, which is located in Ohio. The airport is the 9th 
busiest airport in the U.S. and 40th in the world based on passenger and 
cargo operations. In addition, CVG is hub to passenger airlines Delta Air 
Lines and Delta Private Jets, along with global super-hub for DHL Aviation 
and DHL Express serving destinations throughout the Americas, Europe, Africa, 
and Asia. CVG is also the largest O&D airport and base for Allegiant Air, 
along with home to a maintenance for US Airways Express subsidiary PSA 
Airlines. There are also a number of regional airports scattered across 
the state. On August 27, 2006, Blue Grass Airport was the site of a crash 
that killed 47 passengers and 2 crew members aboard a Bombardier Canadair 
Regional Jet designated Comair Flight 191, or Delta Air Lines Flight 5191, 
sometimes mistakenly identified by the press as Comair Flight 5191.[120] 
The lone survivor was the flight's first officer, James Polehinke, who 
doctors determined to be brain damaged and unable to recall the crash at 
all.[121] As the state is bounded by two of the largest rivers in North 
America, water transportation has historically played a major role in Kentucky's 
economy. Louisville was a major port for steamships in the nineteenth century. 
Today, most barge traffic on Kentucky waterways consists of coal that is 
shipped from both the Eastern and Western Coalfields, about half of which 
is used locally to power many power plants located directly off the Ohio 
River, with the rest being exported to other countries, most notably Japan. 
Many of the largest ports in the United States are located in or adjacent 
to Kentucky, including: As a state, Kentucky ranks 10th overall in port 
tonnage.[122][123] The only natural obstacle along the entire length of 
the Ohio River is the Falls of the Ohio, located just west of Downtown 
Louisville. Kentucky is subdivided into 120 counties, the largest being 
Pike County at 787.6 square miles (2,040 km2), and the most populous being 
Jefferson County (which coincides with the Louisville Metro governmental 
area) with 741,096 residents as of 2010.[124] County government, under 
the Kentucky Constitution of 1891, is vested in the County Judge/Executive, 
(formerly called the County Judge) who serves as the executive head of 
the county, and a legislature called a Fiscal Court. Despite the unusual 
name, the Fiscal Court no longer has judicial functions. Kentucky's two 
most populous counties, Jefferson and Fayette, have their governments consolidated 
with the governments of their largest cities. Louisville-Jefferson County 
Government (Louisville Metro) and Lexington-Fayette Urban County Government 
(Lexington Metro) are unique in that their city councils and county Fiscal 
Court structures have been merged into a single entity with a single chief 
executive, the Metro Mayor and Urban County Mayor, respectively. Although 
the counties still exist as subdivisions of the state, in reference the 
names Louisville and Lexington are used to refer to the entire area coextensive 
with the former cities and counties. Somewhat incongruously, when entering 
Lexington-Fayette the highway signs read "Fayette County" while most signs 
leading into Louisville-Jefferson simply read "Welcome to Louisville Metro". 
The Metro Louisville government area has a 2010 population of 741,096. 
Under United States Census Bureau methodology, the population of Louisville 
was 566,503. The latter figure is the population of the so-called "balance"—the 
parts of Jefferson County that were either unincorporated or within the 
City of Louisville before the formation of the merged government in 2003. 
In 2010, the Louisville Combined Statistical Area (CSA) has a population 
of 1,451,564; including 1,061,031 in Kentucky, which is nearly one-fourth 
of the state's population. Since 2000, over one-third of the state's population 
growth has occurred in the Louisville CSA. In addition, the top 28 wealthiest 
places in Kentucky are in Jefferson County and seven of the 15 wealthiest 
counties in the state are located in the Louisville CSA.[126] The second 
largest city is Lexington with a 2010 census population of 295,803 and 
its CSA, which includes the Frankfort and Richmond statistical areas, having 
a population of 687,173. The Northern Kentucky area (the seven Kentucky 
counties in the Cincinnati MSA) had a population of 425,483 in 2010. The 
metropolitan areas of Louisville, Lexington, and Northern Kentucky have 
a combined population of 2,173,687 as of 2010, which is 50.1% of the state's 
total population. The two other fast growing urban areas in Kentucky are 
the Bowling Green area and the "Tri Cities Region" of southeastern Kentucky, 
comprising Somerset, London and Corbin. Although only one town in the "Tri 
Cities", namely Somerset, currently has more than 12,000 people, the area 
has been experiencing heightened population and job growth since the 1990s. 
Growth has been especially rapid in Laurel County, which outgrew areas 
such as Scott and Jessamine counties around Lexington or Shelby and Nelson 
Counties around Louisville. London significantly grew in population in 
the 2000s, from 5,692 in 2000 to 7,993 in 2010. London also landed a Wal-Mart 
distribution center in 1997, bringing thousands of jobs to the community. 
In northeast Kentucky, the greater Ashland area is an important transportation, 
manufacturing, and medical center. Iron and petroleum production, as well 
as the transport of coal by rail and barge, have been historical pillars 
of the region's economy. Due to a decline in the area's industrial base, 
Ashland has seen a sizable reduction in its population since 1990. The 
population of the area has since stabilized, however, with the medical 
service industry taking a greater role in the local economy. The Ashland 
area, including the counties of Boyd and Greenup, are part of the Huntington-Ashland, 
WV-KY-OH, Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA). As of the 2000 census, the 
MSA had a population of 288,649. More than 21,000 of those people (as of 
2010) reside within the city limits of Ashland. The largest county in Kentucky 
by area is Pike, which contains Pikeville and suburb Coal Run Village. 
The county and surrounding area is the most populated region in the state 
that is not part of a Micropolitan Statistical Area or a Metropolitan Statistical 
Area containing nearly 200,000 people in five counties: Floyd County, Martin 
County, Letcher County, and neighboring Mingo County, West Virginia. Pike 
County contains slightly over 68,000 people. Only three U.S. states have 
capitals with smaller populations than Kentucky's Frankfort (pop. 25,527), 
those being Augusta, Maine (pop. 18,560), Pierre, South Dakota (pop. 13,876), 
and Montpelier, Vermont (pop. 8,035). Kentucky maintains eight public four-year 
universities. There are two general tiers: major research institutions 
(the University of Kentucky and the University of Louisville) and regional 
universities, which encompasses the remaining 6 schools. The regional schools 
have specific target counties that many of their programs are targeted 
towards (such as Forestry at Eastern Kentucky University or Cave Management 
at Western Kentucky University), however most of their curriculum varies 
little from any other public university. UK and UofL have the highest academic 
rankings and admissions standards although the regional schools aren't 
without their national recognized departments – examples being Western 
Kentucky University's nationally ranked Journalism Department or Morehead 
State University offering one of the nation's only Space Science degrees. 
UK is the flagship and land grant of the system and has agriculture extension 
services in every county. The two research schools split duties related 
to the medical field, UK handles all medical outreach programs in the eastern 
half of the state while UofL does all medical outreach in the state's western 
half. The state's sixteen public two-year colleges have been governed by 
the Kentucky Community and Technical College System since the passage of 
the Postsecondary Education Improvement Act of 1997, commonly referred 
to as House Bill 1.[127] Before the passage of House Bill 1, most of these 
colleges were under the control of the University of Kentucky. Transylvania 
University, located in Lexington, is the oldest university west of the 
Allegheny Mountains, founded in 1780. Transylvania is a liberal arts university, 
consistently ranked in the top tier in the country. Berea College, located 
at the extreme southern edge of the Bluegrass below the Cumberland Plateau, 
was the first coeducational college in the South to admit both black and 
white students, doing so from its very establishment in 1855.[128] This 
policy was successfully challenged in the United States Supreme Court in 
the case of Berea College v. Kentucky in 1908.[129] This decision effectively 
segregated Berea until the landmark Brown v. Board of Education in 1954. 
There are 173 school districts and 1,233 public schools in Kentucky.[130] 
For the 2010 to 2011 school year, there were approximately 647,827 students 
enrolled in public school.[131] Kentucky has been the site of much educational 
reform over the past two decades. In 1989, the Kentucky Supreme Court ruled 
that the state's education system was unconstitutional.[132] The response 
of the General Assembly was passage of the Kentucky Education Reform Act 
(KERA) the following year. Years later, Kentucky has shown progress, but 
most agree that further reform is needed.[133] Although Kentucky's culture 
is generally considered to be Southern, it is unique in that it is also 
influenced by the Midwest and Southern Appalachia in certain areas of the 
state. The state is known for bourbon and whiskey distilling, tobacco, 
horse racing, and college basketball. Kentucky is more similar to the Upland 
South in terms of ancestry that is predominantly American.[134] Nevertheless, 
during the 19th century, Kentucky did receive a substantial number of German 
immigrants, who settled mostly in the Midwest, along the Ohio River primarily 
in Louisville, Covington and Newport.[135] Only Maryland, Delaware and 
West Virginia have higher German ancestry percentages than Kentucky among 
Census-defined Southern states, although Kentucky's percentage is closer 
to Arkansas and Virginia's than the previously named state's percentages. 
Scottish Americans, English Americans and Scotch-Irish Americans have heavily 
influenced Kentucky culture, and are present in every part of the state.[136] 
As of the 1980s the only counties in the United States where over half 
of the population cited "English" as their only ancestry group were all 
in the hills of eastern Kentucky (and made up virtually every county in 
this region).[83] Kentucky was a slave state, and blacks once comprised 
over one-quarter of its population. However, it lacked the cotton plantation 
system and never had the same high percentage of African Americans as most 
other slave states. With less than 8% of its current population being black, 
Kentucky is rarely included in modern-day definitions of the Black Belt, 
despite a relatively significant rural African American population in the 
Central and Western areas of the state.[137][138][139] Kentucky adopted 
the Jim Crow system of racial segregation in most public spheres after 
the Civil War, but the state never disenfranchised African American citizens 
to the level of the Deep South states, and it peacefully integrated its 
schools after the 1954 Brown v. Board of Education verdict, later adopting 
the first state civil rights act in the South in 1966.[140] The biggest 
day in American horse racing, the Kentucky Derby, is preceded by the two-week 
Derby Festival[141] in Louisville. Louisville also plays host to the Kentucky 
State Fair[142] and the Kentucky Shakespeare Festival.[143] Bowling Green, 
the state's third-largest city and home to the only assembly plant in the 
world that manufactures the Chevrolet Corvette,[144] opened the National 
Corvette Museum in 1994.[145] The fourth-largest city, Owensboro, gives 
credence to its nickname of "Barbecue Capital of the World" by hosting 
the annual International Bar-B-Q Festival.[146] Old Louisville, the largest 
historic preservation district in the United States featuring Victorian 
architecture and the third largest overall,[147] hosts the St. James Court 
Art Show, the largest outdoor art show in the United States.[148] The neighborhood 
was also home to the Southern Exposition (1883–1887), which featured the 
first public display of Thomas Edison's light bulb,[149] and was the setting 
of Alice Hegan Rice's novel, Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch and Fontaine 
Fox's comic strip, the "Toonerville Trolley.[150] Hodgenville, the birthplace 
of Abraham Lincoln, hosts the annual Lincoln Days Celebration, and also 
hosted the kick-off for the National Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Celebration 
in February 2008. Bardstown celebrates its heritage as a major bourbon-producing 
region with the Kentucky Bourbon Festival.[151] Glasgow mimics Glasgow, 
Scotland by hosting the Glasgow Highland Games, its own version of the 
Highland Games,[152] and Sturgis hosts "Little Sturgis", a mini version 
of Sturgis, South Dakota's annual Sturgis Motorcycle Rally.[153] The residents 
of tiny Benton pay tribute to their favorite tuber, the sweet potato, by 
hosting Tater Day.[154] Residents of Clarkson in Grayson County celebrate 
their city's ties to the honey industry by celebrating the Clarkson Honeyfest.[155] 
The Clarkson Honeyfest is held the last Thursday, Friday and Saturday in 
September, and is the "Official State Honey Festival of Kentucky". The 
breadth of music in Kentucky is indeed wide, stretching from the Purchase 
to the eastern mountains. Renfro Valley, Kentucky is home to Renfro Valley 
Entertainment Center and the Kentucky Music Hall of Fame and is known as 
"Kentucky's Country Music Capital", a designation given it by the Kentucky 
State Legislature in the late 1980s. The Renfro Valley Barn Dance was where 
Renfro Valley's musical heritage began, in 1939, and influential country 
music luminaries like Red Foley, Homer & Jethro, Lily May Ledford & the 
Original Coon Creek Girls, Martha Carson, and many others have performed 
as regular members of the shows there over the years. The Renfro Valley 
Gatherin' is today America's second oldest continually broadcast radio 
program of any kind. It is broadcast on local radio station WRVK and a 
syndicated network of nearly 200 other stations across the United States 
and Canada every week. Contemporary Christian music star Steven Curtis 
Chapman is a Paducah native, and Rock and Roll Hall of Famers The Everly 
Brothers are closely connected with Muhlenberg County, where older brother 
Don was born. Merle Travis, Country & Western artist known for both his 
signature "Travis picking" guitar playing style, as well as his hit song 
"Sixteen Tons", was also born in Muhlenberg County. Kentucky was also home 
to Mildred and Patty Hill, the Louisville sisters credited with composing 
the tune to the ditty Happy Birthday to You in 1893; Loretta Lynn (Johnson 
County), Brian Littrell and Kevin Richardson of the Backstreet Boys, and 
Billy Ray Cyrus (Flatwoods). However, its depth lies in its signature sound—Bluegrass 
music. Bill Monroe, "The Father of Bluegrass", was born in the small Ohio 
County town of Rosine, while Ricky Skaggs, Keith Whitley, David "Stringbean" 
Akeman, Louis Marshall "Grandpa" Jones, Sonny and Bobby Osborne, and Sam 
Bush (who has been compared to Monroe) all hail from Kentucky. The International 
Bluegrass Music Museum is located in Owensboro,[156] while the annual Festival 
of the Bluegrass is held in Lexington.[157] Kentucky is also home to famed 
jazz musician and pioneer, Lionel Hampton (although this has been disputed 
in recent years).[158] Blues legend W. C. Handy and R&B singer Wilson Pickett 
also spent considerable time in Kentucky. The R&B group Midnight Star and 
Hip-Hop group Nappy Roots were both formed in Kentucky, as were country 
acts The Kentucky Headhunters, Montgomery Gentry and Halfway to Hazard, 
The Judds, as well as Dove Award-winning Christian groups Audio Adrenaline 
(rock) and Bride (metal). Heavy Rock band Black Stone Cherry hails from 
rural Edmonton, Indie rock band My Morning Jacket with lead singer and 
guitarist Jim James also originated out of Louisville, on the local independent 
music Scene. Rock bands Cage the Elephant, Sleeper Agent, and Morning Teleportation 
are also from Bowling Green. The bluegrass groups Driftwood and Kentucky 
Rain, along with Nick Lachey of the pop band 98 Degrees are also from Kentucky. 
King Crimson guitarist Adrian Belew is from Covington. Noted singer and 
actress Rosemary Clooney was a native of Maysville, her legacy being celebrated 
at the annual music festival bearing her name. In eastern Kentucky, old-time 
music carries on the tradition of ancient ballads and reels developed in 
historical Appalachia. Kentucky has played a major role in Southern and 
American literature, producing works that often celebrate the working class, 
rural life, nature, and explore issues of class, extractive economy, and 
family. Major works from the state include Uncle Tom's Cabin (1852) by 
Harriet Beecher Stowe, widely seen as one of the impetuses for the American 
Civil War; The Little Shepherd of Kingdom Come (1908) by John Fox, Jr., 
which was the first novel to sell a million copies in the United States; 
All the King's Men by Robert Penn Warren (1946) rated as the 36th greatest 
novel by Modern Library; The Dollmaker (1954) by Harriette Arnow later 
adapted into a popular film starring Jane Fonda; Night Comes to the Cumberlands 
(1962) by Harry Caudill, which led to The War on Poverty, and others. Thomas 
Merton lived most of his life and wrote most of his books during his time 
as a monk at the Abbey of Our Lady of Gethsemani near Bardstown, Kentucky. 
Hunter S. Thompson is also a native of the state. In recent years writers 
from Kentucky have consistently published widely read and critically acclaimed 
books. These authors include Wendell Berry, Silas House, Barbara Kingsolver, 
Maurice Manning, and Bobbie Ann Mason, among others. Well-known playwrights 
from Kentucky include Marsha Norman ('Night Mother) and Naomi Wallace (One 
Flea Spare). Kentucky's cuisine is generally similar to traditional southern 
cooking, although in some areas of the state it can blend elements of both 
the South and Midwest.[159][160] One original Kentucky dish is called the 
Hot Brown, a dish normally layered in this order: toasted bread, turkey, 
bacon, tomatoes and topped with mornay sauce. It was developed at the Brown 
Hotel in Louisville.[161] The Pendennis Club in Louisville is the birthplace 
of the Old Fashioned cocktail. Also, western Kentucky is known for its 
own regional style of barbecue. Louisville is well known for its many boutique, 
locally owned restaurants including Jack Fry's, Ramsi's Cafe on the World 
(both on Bardstown Road), The English Grill, Mayan Cafe, Bistro Le Relais 
and Proof on Main Street. Harland Sanders, a Kentucky colonel, originated 
Kentucky Fried Chicken at his service station in North Corbin, though the 
first franchised KFC was located in South Salt Lake, Utah.[162] Kentucky 
is the home of several sports teams such as Minor League Baseball's Triple-A 
Louisville Bats and Class A Lexington Legends and the Class A Bowling Green 
Hot Rods. They are also home to the Frontier Leagues Florence Freedom and 
several teams in the MCFL. The Lexington Horsemen and Louisville Fire of 
the now-defunct af2 had been interested in making a move up to the "major 
league" Arena Football League, but nothing has come of those plans. The 
northern part of the state lies across the Ohio River from Cincinnati, 
which is home to a National Football League team, the Bengals, and a Major 
League Baseball team, the Reds. It is not uncommon for fans to park in 
the city of Newport and use the Newport Southbank Pedestrian Bridge, locally 
known as the "Purple People Bridge", to walk to these games in Cincinnati. 
Also, Georgetown College in Georgetown was the location for the Bengals' 
summer training camp, until it was announced in 2012 that the Bengals would 
no longer use the facilities.[163] As in many states, especially those 
without major league professional sport teams, college athletics are prominent. 
This is especially true of the state's three Division I Football Bowl Subdivision 
(FBS) programs, including the Kentucky Wildcats, the Western Kentucky Hilltoppers, 
and the Louisville Cardinals. The Wildcats, Hilltoppers, and Cardinals 
are among the most tradition-rich college men's basketball teams in the 
United States, combining for 11 National championships and 24 NCAA Final 
Fours;[citation needed] all three are high on the lists of total all-time 
wins, wins per season, and average wins per season.[citation needed] The 
Kentucky Wildcats are particularly notable, leading all Division I programs 
in all-time wins, win percentage, NCAA tournament appearances, and being 
second only to UCLA in NCAA championships.[citation needed] Louisville 
has also stepped onto the football scene in recent years, including winning 
the 2007 Orange Bowl as well as the 2013 Sugar Bowl. Western Kentucky, 
the 2002 national champion in Division I-AA football (now Football Championship 
Subdivision (FCS)), completed its transition to Division I FBS football 
in 2009. The Kentucky Derby is a horse race held annually in Louisville 
on the first Saturday in May. The Valhalla Golf Club has hosted several 
editions of the PGA Championship, Senior PGA Championship and Ryder Cup 
since the 1990s. The NASCAR Sprint Cup Series has a race at the Kentucky 
Speedway in Sparta, Kentucky, which is within an hour driving distance 
from Cincinnati, Louisville and Lexington. The race is called the Quaker 
State 400. The NASCAR Nationwide Series and the Camping World Truck Series 
also race there, and previously the IndyCar Series. Ohio Valley Wrestling 
in Louisville was the primary location for training and rehab for WWE professional 
wrestlers from 2000 until 2008, when WWE moved its contracted talent to 
Florida Championship Wrestling. In November 2011, OVW became the primary 
developmental territory for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). Unless 
otherwise specified, all state symbol information is taken from Kentucky 
State Symbols. Kentucky colonel is the highest title of honor bestowed 
by the Commonwealth of Kentucky. Commissions for Kentucky colonels are 
given by the Governor and the Secretary of State to individuals in recognition 
of noteworthy accomplishments and outstanding service to a community, state 
or the nation. The sitting governor of the Commonwealth of Kentucky bestows 
the honor of a colonel's commission, by issuance of letters patent. The 
world-famous Louisville Slugger baseball bat is made in Kentucky. It holds 
the Guinness World Record for the largest bat. Kentucky's 2001 commemorative 
quarter featuring My Old Kentucky Home and a Thoroughbred horse. Thunder 
Over Louisville is the largest annual fireworks show in the world. Kentucky's 
horse farms are world-renowned. The Daniel Boone National Forest. The Ohio 
River forms the northern border of Kentucky. Many Kentucky cities have 
historic areas near downtown, such as this example in Bowling Green. Coordinates: 
