Kerwin Joseph Danley (born May 25, 1961) is an umpire in Major League Baseball 
who has worked in the National League (NL) from 1992 to 1999 and throughout 
both leagues since 2000.[1] Danley has worked the American League Division 
Series six times (2000, 2001, 2004, 2006, 2008, 2011).[2] He also umpired 
in the 2007 and 2016 Major League Baseball All-Star Games. Kerwin is married 
to Marisa Danley. Danley played baseball at San Diego State University, 
where he was teammates with future Hall of Famer Tony Gwynn, before beginning 
his umpiring career. He was a First Team All-American in 1983.[3] Danley 
was the first base umpire for the game between the San Francisco Giants 
and the San Diego Padres on August 4, 2007. In the top of the second inning 
at San Diego, Barry Bonds of the Giants hit his 755th career home run off 
Clay Hensley, tying Hank Aaron for first all-time. Danley was on the field 
on August 6, 1999 when former San Diego State teammate Tony Gwynn collected 
his 3,000th career hit.[4] On April 26, 2008, Danley was behind home plate 
umpiring a game between the Los Angeles Dodgers and the Colorado Rockies 
when he was hit in the jaw by a 96 mph Brad Penny fastball that went over 
the head of catcher Russell Martin. Danley was carried off the field in 
an ambulance, but play eventually resumed. During the sixth inning, Vin 
Scully reported that Danley was doing well. Danley was released from the 
hospital at early the next morning and returned to the field in early June. 
On April 21, 2009, Danley was the home plate umpire for a game between 
the Toronto Blue Jays and the Texas Rangers. During Rangers' designated 
hitter Hank Blalock's sixth-inning at-bat, Blalock's bat broke, and the 
barrel of the bat hit Danley in the facemask. He was carried off the field 
on a stretcher for the 2nd time in his career for the same injury, almost 
exactly a year to the date of the first injury. Second base umpire Hunter 
Wendelstedt assumed umpiring duties at home plate. Danley remained conscious 
while being transported to the hospital, and was diagnosed with a mild 
concussion. On May 27, 2012, Danley was the home plate umpire for a game 
between the Washington Nationals and Atlanta Braves. During Nationals right 
fielder Bryce Harper's at-bat, Braves pitcher Brandon Beachy fired a slider 
into the dirt in front of home plate, which skipped through catcher J. 
C. Boscán's legs untouched and struck Danley directly in the groin. Danley 
fell to the ground, was assisted by Braves medical staff and remained in 
the game.[5] On June 3, 2013, Danley was the home plate umpire for a game 
between the Cincinnati Reds and the Colorado Rockies. In the bottom half 
of the first inning, Danley was hit on his face mask by a pitch that bounced 
in the dirt and off the catcher Wilin Rosario. A trainer was called out 
to check on him, but he remained in the game throughout the remainder of 
the inning and the entire second inning before the decision was made for 
him to leave the game at the top of the third, replaced by Lance Barksdale. 
His status was reported the next day as "day to day."[6] On May 12, 2015, 
Danley was again the home plate umpire, this time for a game between the 
Washington Nationals and the Arizona Diamondbacks. In the bottom of the 
second inning with one out, he was hit by a pitch that lined straight back 
off the bat of Diamondbacks shortstop Nick Ahmed. The ball hit Danley square 
between the eyes on his face mask, sending him wobbling back toward the 
backstop. After several minutes of evaluation by the Diamondbacks team 
trainer, Danley left the game and was replaced by Gabe Morales at home 
plate. The rest of the game was finished by a 3-man crew. On April 6, 2016, 
Danley was struck in the helmet directly by a 98-mph fastball from Marlins 
pitcher Jose Fernandez, which was missed entirely by catcher J.T. Realmuto.[7] 
