Kevin Charles Millar (/mᵻˈlɑːr/; born September 24, 1971) is an American 
former professional baseball first baseman and current analyst for MLB 
Network. He currently is a host along with Chris Rose on the MLB Network 
show Intentional Talk.[1] Millar was born in Los Angeles and graduated 
from University High School in Los Angeles. He attended and played college 
baseball for Lamar in Beaumont, Texas. Under the tutelage of Coach Jim 
Gilligan, Millar and the Cardinals prospered. For two seasons, Millar was 
a key part of Lamar's return to prominence in collegiate baseball. In 1992, 
Lamar went 32–21, posting the NCAA’s biggest turnaround with a 14-victory 
improvement over the 1991 season. Millar led the Cardinals that season 
in runs (41), hits (56), home runs (13) and runs batted in (50), and he 
earned All-Sun Belt Conference honors. The next season, Millar helped lead 
the Cardinals to a 44–18 record, to the SBC regular-season and tournament 
championships and to a berth in the NCAA’s Central 1 Regional in College 
Station. at Lamar. In 1993, Millar began his professional career with the 
Saint Paul Saints of the Northern League. Millar was a replacement player 
during the 1994–95 Major League Baseball strike, when he played with the 
replacements in early 1995 and therefore, he is barred from membership 
in the Major League Baseball Players Association.[2] From 1997 to 1999, 
during games encompassing several minor league stints, Millar set the record 
for most consecutive games reaching base with 71 straight (although this 
statistic only began to be formally tracked in the minors in 1996). This 
record was tied in 2003 by future Red Sox teammate Kevin Youkilis. His 
contract was purchased by the Florida Marlins at the end of the season 
and he made his major league debut for Florida in 1998. Millar played for 
the Marlins from 1998 to 2002, and was later sold to the Japanese Central 
League Chunichi Dragons. In order for the transaction to be completed, 
he first had to clear the waivers requested by the Marlins, but the Red 
Sox broke an unwritten rule and blocked the deal with a waiver claim. In 
an unprecedented deal brokered by MLB, the Marlins later repaid the money 
that the Dragons had paid for Millar, and the Red Sox paid a similar sum 
to the Marlins in return for Millar. His clubhouse presence and offensive 
production helped spark the Red Sox to the 2003 American League Championship 
Series and the 2004 World Series. During the 2003 playoffs, Millar began 
using the phrase "Cowboy Up", and in 2004 referred to his team as "idiots" 
to keep teammates loose during the stretch run to the World Series Championship.[3] 
Millar had a lead-off walk in the 9th inning of Game 4 of the 2004 ALCS 
against the Yankees, which, along with Dave Roberts' steal of 2nd base 
that inning, and RBI single by Bill Mueller proved to be the turning point 
in the series. Prior to the game, Millar was caught on camera numerous 
times telling reporters and his teammates "Don't let the Sox win tonight", 
in reference to Game 4 and in reference to the fact that Pedro Martinez 
and Curt Schilling were scheduled as the starting pitchers Games 5 and 
6, respectively.[4] On April 20, 2012 Millar, together with Pedro Martinez 
gave a toast to Fenway Park on the 100th anniversary of the ballpark. Millar 
and Martinez stood on top of the home dugout and gave a toast that was 
the largest in history, according to the Guinness Book of World Records. 
Millar signed with the Baltimore Orioles on January 12, 2006 as a free 
agent. During the season he broke Rey Ordóñez's record for most games played 
by any non-drafted player who started his career in the Independent Leagues 
during the Draft era.[5] Initially in Baltimore, he was not an everyday 
player. However, when Dave Trembley took over the team, he began to play 
more regularly.[6] On August 23, 2007, Millar reached base safely for the 
50th consecutive game, setting a franchise record for the Orioles. On August 
26, 2007 Millar's streak came to an end at 52 games. It was the 7th longest 
streak since 1957. On February 11, 2009, Millar signed a minor league deal 
with the Toronto Blue Jays as a non-roster invitee.[7] He successfully 
made the roster, serving as a backup to first baseman Lyle Overbay. After 
Alex Ríos was claimed off waivers, Millar switched his number from #30 
to his former #15. On February 1, 2010, Millar agreed to a minor league 
contract with the Chicago Cubs, with an invitation to spring training.[8] 
However, on March 30, he was released by the Cubs after not making the 
major league team. Millar announced his retirement on April 21, 2010, though 
on April 27 on MLB Network Radio with Jim Duquette and Kevin Kennedy, he 
stated it was not official as he still wanted to play. Millar joined MLB 
Network as a studio analyst. On May 20, 2010, Millar also joined New England 
Sports Network (NESN) as a pre-game and post-game analyst. On May 22, Millar 
made his debut for Fox Sports and its MLB on Fox Saturday telecasts. He 
served as a pre-game, game break, and post-game analyst for its primetime 
games in the studio, as well as a fill-in color analyst for select games 
during the season. On May 5, 2010, Millar returned to baseball when he 
signed a contract with the St. Paul Saints of the American Association, 
the same team with whom he started his career. His contract language also 
allowed him to leave the team to carry out his broadcasting duties. After 
the 2001 season, Millar was awarded the Charlie Hough Good Guy Award by 
the Florida chapter of the Baseball Writers' Association of America.[1] 
After the 2003 season, Millar was awarded the Jackie Jensen Award, which 
is presented each year by the Boston chapter of the BBWAA. The award is 
presented to the player who best exemplifies the spirit and desire of Jackie 
Jensen, the former Red Sox outfielder.[1] While an active player, Millar 
was not a member of the MLBPA (Major League Baseball Players Association), 
and therefore his name or likeness could not be published in officially-licensed 
video games. Many games nevertheless included him and other non-MLBPA players, 
with fictional names and different appearances. In MVP Baseball 2004, he 
was not included. In MVP Baseball 2005, The Bigs and MLB Front Office Manager, 
Millar is replaced by "Anthony Friese". In Major League Baseball 2K5 and 
Major League Baseball 2K6, he is replaced by "Carlos Ahearn". In MLB 07: 
The Show and in MLB 08: The Show, he is replaced by "Ivan Jimenez". In 
Major League Baseball 2K7, Major League Baseball 2K8 and Major League Baseball 
2K9, Millar is replaced by "Kyle Morgan", with the same initials. In MLB 
Power Pros 2008, he is replaced by "Great Johnson". In MLB 09: The Show, 
on the online roster update, he is replaced by "Dave Herman". In MLB Dugout 
Heroes, Millar is replaced by "Kane Matthews" with the same initials. In 
all instances, the statistics of these characters are based on the real 
Kevin Millar. Millar made an appearance (in actual game footage) in the 
movie Fever Pitch in which he walked and was lifted for a pinch runner. 
Millar co-hosts the MLB Network show Intentional Talk with Chris Rose. 
He repeatedly uses the phrase "Got heeem" which has become a signature 
part of "Intentional Talk". Millar is married and has four young children. 
Millar currently makes his residence in Austin, Texas.[9] Millar is the 
