Kevin S. McClatchy (born January 13, 1963 in Sacramento, California) is 
the chairman of The McClatchy Company and former owner of the Pittsburgh 
Pirates baseball team. He led a group of investors that purchased the team 
in 1996, and served as the team's CEO and lead owner until 2007, when Bob 
Nutting took over as lead owner, and McClatchy and Nutting hired Frank 
Coonelly to become CEO. Prior to purchasing the Pirates, he owned the minor-league 
Modesto A's[citation needed]. In addition to his baseball work, he is a 
director of The McClatchy Company, a newspaper publisher owned by his family 
(he succeeded Gary B. Pruitt as chairman of the board of the company in 
April 2012).[1] McClatchy is an alumnus of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity. 
Kevin is an alumnus of the Trinity-Pawling School in Pawling, New York. 
Kevin McClatchy was the leader and plurality investor in a group that paid 
$95 million ($148 million today) for the Pittsburgh Pirates in February 
1996. McClatchy immediately assumed the posts of chief executive officer 
and managing general partner, which are the offices traditionally staffed 
directly by owners in Major League Baseball. McClatchy is a member of Major 
League Baseball's executive council and the labor and international committees. 
At some point after 2005, which is not entirely known because the Pirates 
are a private corporation, G. Ogden Nutting and his family became the plurality 
and then majority owners in the franchise. Bob Nutting, Ogden's son, is 
now chairman of the board. The Nuttings, however, have consistently shied 
from the spotlight and allowed McClatchy to be the main or even sole voice 
of the ownership group. In 2006, McClatchy speculated openly about resigning, 
possibly even selling the team, if the Pirates did not improve. He affirmed 
that he was frustrated with his own team, referencing popular and political 
complaints about the "promise" he made that the publicly funded PNC Park 
would provide the owners will all the resources they needed to field a 
winning team. On October 4, 2006, however, McClatchy announced that despite 
another losing season, he would remain in his offices, and made only a 
few minor personnel changes. On January 12, 2007, the Pirates announced 
that Robert Nutting would replace McClatchy as the Pirates principal owner. 
During McClatchy's reign as owner, the Pirates never achieved a winning 
season. On July 6, 2007, it was announced that McClatchy would step down 
as CEO after the 2007 MLB season. On September 8, 2007, Ken Rosenthal of 
Fox Sports reported that baseball executive Frank Coonelly will be hired 
by the Pirates to replace McClatchy as CEO. This report comes just one 
day after the Pirates fired General Manager Dave Littlefield. The hiring 
of Coonelly was announced September 13.[2] On September 22, 2012, McClatchy 
came out as gay in an interview with Frank Bruni of The New York Times.[3] 
As of 2013, McClatchy continues to live in the Pittsburgh suburb of Ligonier, 
