Kevin Darnell Mitchell (born January 13, 1962) is an American former Major 
League Baseball left fielder. A two-time All-Star and the 1989 NL MVP, 
he became widely known not only for his occasional brilliance on the field, 
but also for his unpredictable and sometimes volatile behavior off the 
field. Mitchell was born and raised in San Diego. He attended Clairemont 
High School.[1] In Amazin', Peter Golenbock's oral history of the New York 
Mets, Hall of Fame catcher Gary Carter said he gave Mitchell the nickname 
"World" for his ability to play in the infield and outfield. Carter spoke 
fondly of Mitchell's talents.[2] An urban legend involving Mitchell holds 
that during the Mets' championship run in 1986, during an argument with 
his then live-in girlfriend, Mitchell decapitated her cat. The story first 
came to light in Dwight Gooden's autobiography, Heat. Gooden claimed that 
an enraged Mitchell held him hostage during the alleged cat incident. Mitchell 
responded to Gooden's accusations by accusing Gooden of fabricating the 
stories in an attempt to divert attention away from Gooden's personal problems.[3] 
In the famous tenth inning of Game 6 of the 1986 World Series, after Wally 
Backman and Keith Hernandez had been retired for the first two outs, he 
was called to pinch hit for reliever Rick Aguilera after Gary Carter, the 
next hitter after Hernandez, singled. Mitchell, who had already gotten 
out of his uniform and had on his regular clothes, hurriedly put his uniform 
back on without his protective cup and went to the plate and singled.[4] 
He would eventually score the tying run on Bob Stanley's wild pitch to 
Mookie Wilson. In a July 2007 radio interview with local sports talk radio 
station KNBR, Mitchell disputed that he was out of uniform at the time, 
and stated that he never wore a cup, even when playing infield. When asked 
why he never wore a cup, Mitchell responded, "I couldn’t find one big enough 
for my junk." The interviewer then commented that maybe the increased mobility 
helped Mitchell to make the famous 1989 barehanded catch of Ozzie Smith's 
fly ball.[4] Mitchell was traded to the San Diego Padres after the 1986 
season, where he played half a season before landing in San Francisco where 
he would reach his full potential.[5] On July 4, 1987, Mitchell was traded 
to the Giants as part of a multi-player trade that also sent pitchers Dave 
Dravecky and Craig Lefferts to San Francisco in exchange for third baseman 
Chris Brown and pitchers Keith Comstock, Mark Davis, and Mark Grant. While 
Dravecky was initially considered to be the key to the trade for the Giants, 
it was Mitchell who emerged as a superstar. After two seasons playing primarily 
at third base, he had his best season with the Giants in 1989 upon being 
moved to the outfield. In that season, he batted .291 with a league-best 
125 RBI and 47 home runs, leading the team to the playoffs and winning 
the National League's Most Valuable Player award, the first by a Giant 
since Willie McCovey in 1969. He added a .353 average and 2 homers in the 
NLCS to help the team to its first World Series appearance since 1962. 
Mitchell is the only player in Major League Baseball history to win a Most 
Valuable Player award and play for five major league teams before his 32nd 
birthday. Mitchell is also the only MVP award winner to play for eight 
major league teams in his career. Mitchell set the tone for his charmed 
1989 season early in the year with a unique defensive play. Sprinting toward 
the left field foul line in St. Louis' Busch Stadium, for a ball off the 
bat of Ozzie Smith, Mitchell realized he had overrun the ball, but was 
able to reach back and snare the ball with his bare hand.[6][7] A two-time 
All-Star with the Giants, later years saw his play decline due to an often 
indifferent attitude as well as various other distractions. One story making 
the rounds was an incident during the 1991 season in Los Angeles when an 
unnamed Giant player said he saw Mitchell "stone drunk" at 2 a.m. after 
a Saturday night game.[8] Traded to the Mariners after the 1991 season, 
he arrived at spring training the following year 30 pounds (14 kg) overweight 
and hit only nine homers that year while batting .286. He had a resurgence 
in two seasons with the Reds, batting .341 with 19 HRs and 64 RBI in just 
323 at-bats in 1993 and .323 with 30 HR and 77 RBI in the strike-shortened 
season. However, his weight problems kept him from being more productive. 
Because of the baseball strike, he opted to play for the Fukuoka Daiei 
Hawks in Japan the following year,[9] where he became the highest-paid 
player in Japanese history.[10] In Japan, he incurred the displeasure of 
team management when he chose to travel to the U.S. in mid-season for treatment 
of knee problems against the team's wishes. In the next two years, he played 
for four major league teams (Cincinnati, Boston, Cleveland, Oakland), showing 
flashes of his former ability.[5] Since his retirement, Mitchell lives 
in San Diego,[5] and plays in the San Diego Adult Baseball League for the 
championship team, the San Diego Black Sox, run by Mike Micheli. Mitchell 
was the subject of a rape investigation in Chula Vista, California in December 
1991. No charges were filed.[5][11] After being released from Major League 
Baseball for the last time, he was arrested in 1999 for assaulting his 
father during an argument.[12] Back in the minor leagues as manager of 
the Sonoma County Crushers in 2000, he was suspended for nine games after 
punching the opposing team's owner in the mouth during a brawl.[13] In 
2010, Mitchell was arrested for alleged misdemeanor battery at the Bonita 
Golf Club in Bonita, California.[13] He was ordered to perform community 
service and attend anger management classes.[5] In his 13-season career 
with eight teams, Mitchell batted .284, with 234 home runs, 760 runs batted 
in, 630 runs scored, 1,173 hits, 224 doubles and 25 triples in 1,223 games. 
Mitchell's cousin, Keith Mitchell, also played in the major leagues for 
four different teams across four seasons (between 1991 and 1998), ending 
his career with a .260 batting average and eight home runs. He is also 
known as Boogie Bear by his players on the Giants.[citation needed] Mitchell 
sustained several unusual injuries during his career. He once strained 
a muscle while vomiting.[14] However, the most infamous of Mitchell's injuries 
occurred when he broke a tooth eating a frozen chocolate donut that he 
had put in the microwave too long and that had hardened. The incident is 
said to have led to Mitchell's needing a root canal, and he was later fitted 
with a gold tooth as the replacement.[citation needed] Mitchell has said 
