Kezar Stadium is an outdoor athletics stadium in San Francisco, California, 
located adjacent to Kezar Pavilion in the southeastern corner of Golden 
Gate Park. It is the former home of the San Francisco 49ers and the Oakland 
Raiders (first AFL season only) of the National Football League (NFL) and 
of the San Francisco Dragons of Major League Lacrosse. It also served as 
the home of the California Victory of the USL First Division before the 
club folded. Kezar also hosts amateur and recreation sports leagues, as 
well as numerous San Francisco high school football games (including the 
city championship, known popularly as the "Turkey Bowl"). In 1920, Jack 
Spaulding proposed an athletics stadium for San Francisco, seating 50,000. 
Many business leaders in The City backed him, as it would keep San Francisco 
level with other cities with large stadiums. Areas under consideration 
for the stadium were 7th & Harrison Streets, Ocean Shore, and the Central 
Park grounds [3] In 1922, the San Francisco Park Commission accepted a 
$100,000 gift from the estate of Mary Kezar to build a memorial in honor 
of her mother and uncles, who were pioneers in the area. After the City 
and County of San Francisco appropriated an additional $200,000, the stadium 
was built in a year. Dedication ceremonies were on May 2, 1925, and featured 
a two-mile (3.2 km) footrace between Ville Ritola and Paavo Nurmi of Finland, 
two of the great runners of the era. The stadium had many uses in the 1930s. 
In addition to track and field competitions, Kezar Stadium hosted motorcycle 
racing, auto racing, rugby, lacrosse, soccer, baseball, boxing, cricket, 
and football. In September 1932, the Australian Cricket Team played a North 
California all-star team in the Australians' 56-game tour of the U.S. and 
Canada. The stadium was also home to several colleges such as Santa Clara, 
USF, St. Mary's, and the now-defunct San Francisco Polytechnic High School. 
In 1926 the Stadium also became the home of the East-West Shrine Game. 
In the 1928, the city high school championship game between cross-town 
rivals San Francisco Polytechnic and Lowell drew more than 50,000—still 
the record for a high school football game in northern California. The 
Bruce-Mahoney rivalry football game between St. Ignatius College Preparatory 
and Sacred Heart Cathedral Prep is held at the new (smaller) stadium. Stanford 
University played four of its home football games at Kezar; one in 1928 
and three in 1942. Stanford was also part of the first-ever major college 
football double header in 1940, which featured Stanford–San Francisco and 
Santa Clara–Utah.[4] Kezar Stadium was the first home of the San Francisco 
49ers[5] and Oakland Raiders, as well many NFL Hall of Famers, historical 
NFL games, and the first "ally-oop".[6] The Raiders played at Kezar for 
their first four home games in 1960, and at Candlestick Park during the 
remainder of their first two seasons,[7] before Frank Youell Field was 
built as a temporary facility in Oakland. The 49ers played the final NFL 
game at Kezar in early 1971, losing the 1970 NFC Championship Game to the 
Dallas Cowboys, 17–10, on January 3. The 49ers moved to the more modern 
and accessible Candlestick Park (since demolished) for the 1971 season, 
and played there through 2013. Kezar Stadium was also home field for the 
San Francisco Stingrayz women's professional football team from 2003–2005, 
until the team was forced to end their season due to a bus accident which 
injured many players. The Stingrayz were one of the Bay Area's women tackle 
football teams in the Women's Professional Football League, and then the 
Independent Women's Football League. Months after the 49ers' departure, 
several scenes from the 1971 film Dirty Harry were filmed at and above 
the stadium. The film's fictional antagonist, Scorpio (played by Andrew 
Robinson), worked as the caretaker at the stadium and lived under the grandstand.[6] 
With the loss of professional football in 1971, the stadium became a popular 
outdoor concert venue, and its proximity to the Haight-Ashbury District 
helped with the transition. Notable performers at Kezar included Led Zeppelin, 
Throbbing Gristle, The Doobie Brothers, Jefferson Starship, Tower of Power, 
Joan Baez, Grateful Dead, The New Riders of the Purple Sage, Santana, Waylon 
Jennings, Bob Dylan, Neil Young. With pending demolition, the bleacher 
planks of Kezar Stadium were sold off to fans at a party in April 1989.[8][9] 
In June, the stadium was demolished and rebuilt with a much smaller seating 
capacity of 10,000. The upgrades included an eight-lane, all-weather track 
and a grass athletic infield suitable for soccer, football, and lacrosse.[10] 
During the reconstruction, the field and track configurations were shifted 
several degrees counterclockwise, to move the stadium away from Frederick 
Street. The evidence for this can be seen by examining photos of the tunnel 
entrance at the east end of the field, which used to be exactly on the 
long axis of the track. A replica of the original concrete arch bearing 
the name "Kezar Stadium" was built on the west side of the stadium as a 
tribute to the original structure. A plaque of NFL Hall of Famer Bob St. 
Clair, a San Francisco native who played 11 seasons (1953–63) at Kezar 
Stadium, is built into the replica arch. In 1967 it served as the home 
stadium for the San Francisco Golden Gate Gales of the United Soccer Association.[11] 
With the 2006 West Coast expansion of Major League Lacrosse, Kezar Stadium 
once again became a home to a professional team, the San Francisco Dragons. 
In October 2006, United Soccer Leagues (USL) and Spanish football club 
Deportivo Alavés announced that the new pro soccer team, named California 
Victory, would play their 2007 home games at Kezar. The Victory played 
in the USL's First Division, one level below Major League Soccer. However, 
Alaves later withdrew their support and the team folded. In 2004 it served 
as the home of the San Francisco Freedom, the city's Pro Cricket team. 
Sacred Heart Cathedral Preparatory, a nearby Catholic high school uses 
the field for their home football games. Mission High School also uses 
the field for home games. Kezar has also been the host of several Northern 
California Semi-pro football championship games. In 2010, 2011, and 2012, 
Stanford University held its spring football game at Kezar. For the 2012 
and 2016 San Francisco Olympic bids, Kezar was designated to host field 
hockey had San Francisco been chosen in either year. Kezar is the current 
home field for San Francisco City FC, a supporter-owned club playing in 
the PDL. The San Francisco Nighthawks, founded in 1995 and a member of 
the Women's Premier Soccer League, play their home games at Kezar. The 
Bay Area Breeze of the W-League started play there in 2013.[12] Kezar is 
also the home to the annual San Francisco Fall Lacrosse Classic, an NCAA 
Division I fall ball game started in 2009 to benefit the Bay Area Youth 
Sports Foundation. The first event was between Brown and North Carolina. 
It was the first Division I men's lacrosse played in Northern California. 
North Carolina beat Brown 13–5 in front of a crowd of more than 4500. Special 
certificates marking the occasion were presented to each team on behalf 
of the Mayor, SF Board of Supervisors, and the City and County by Director 
of San Francisco Recreation and Parks Department Phil Ginsburg. The 2010 
event featured storied lacrosse powerhouse Johns Hopkins and Notre Dame 
on Saturday, October 16, 2010. Notre Dame beat Hopkins 10–7. The third 
installment took place on Saturday, October 8, 2011 and featured the University 
of Denver and Harvard University. The fourth installment took place Sunday 
October 21, 2012 in a match between Lehigh and Ohio State.[13] As a direct 
result of the San Francisco Fall Lacrosse Classic, the BAYS Foundation 
has made over $225,000 in grants to local youth sports and educations programs 
for under-resourced children throughout the Bay Area.[13] Kezar was home 
to the San Francisco GAA football league (Gaelic football). Starting in 
2013, Kezar is currently home to Major League Ultimate (MLU) team, the 
San Francisco Dogfish.[14] Kezar Stadium was closed for renovations from 
September 29, 2014 until March 13, 2015. The $3.2-million renovation included 
the replacement of the running track surface, new entry walk paving, upgraded 
sound system, new perimeter walkways and curbs, installation of new Mondo 
running track surface and striping for nine 42” lanes. In addition, 1,000 
historic Candlestick Park Stadium seats were installed for the public to 
enjoy. The renovation was funded by the City’s Capital Planning General 
Fund. Mayor Edwin M. Lee helped re-open the stadium with a warm-up run.[15] 
