Kickball is a playground game and league game, similar to baseball, invented 
in the United States. As in baseball, one team tries to score by having 
its players return a ball from home base to the field and then circle the 
bases; while the other team tries to stop them by tagging them "out" with 
the ball before they can return to the home base. Instead of hitting a 
small, hard ball with a bat, players kick an inflated rubber ball; this 
makes it more accessible to young children. As in baseball, teams alternate 
half-innings. The team with the most runs after a predefined number of 
innings wins. Kickball is a popular playground game and is typically played 
among young, school-age children.[citation needed] The lack of both specialized 
equipment and highly skill-based positions (like pitcher) makes the game 
an accessible introduction to other sports. It is just as popular among 
adults, who are more commonly known to play similar games like softball 
and baseball.[citation needed] "The game seems to afford equal enjoyment 
to the children and it gives a better understanding of the national game 
(Baseball), and at the same time affords them an exercise that is not too 
violent and is full of fun."[1] Kickball, originally called "Kick Baseball", 
was invented as early as 1917 by Nicholas C Seuss, Supervisor of Cincinnati 
Park Playgrounds in Cincinnati, Ohio.[2] Seuss submitted his first documented 
overview of the game which included 12 rules and a field diagram in The 
Playground Book, published in 1917. Kickball is referred to as "Kick Base 
Ball" and "Kick Baseball" in this book.[3] Around 1920–1921 "Kick Ball" 
was used by physical education teachers in public schools to teach young 
boys and girls the basics of baseball. Around this time, the ball that 
was used was a soccer ball or volleyball. It was played by ten to thirty 
players and the field included a "Neutral Zone": an area not to be entered 
until the ball has actually been kicked. There was no pitcher as the ball 
would be kicked from the home area, which was a 3 ft circle. The ball must 
pass beyond the 5 foot line. Base-runners could only advance one base on 
infield balls. Teams would switch sides only after all team members have 
kicked.[4] During this time, it was played on the same field as baseball 
except that there was only one base corresponding to a baseball diamond's 
2nd base. Multiple players could be on base at a time, but all needed to 
get home before the last kicker kicked and the kicking order had retired.[5] 
There were also two short stop player positions: one between 1st and 2nd 
and the other between 2nd and 3rd. Home plate was marked by a 3 ft by 4 ft 
rectangle on the ground.[6] Published in April 1922, Daniel Chase; Supervisor 
of Physical Education for the New York State Department of Education, describes 
the earliest known account of adults playing kickball. This game took place 
at a conference of rural teachers in Mooers Forks, Clinton County, NY where 
Daniel was teaching games that the teachers could in turn teach to their 
pupils. They did not have a ball, so they made one out of an old stocking 
and some rags. The ball was about 7 to 8 inches long and tied off with 
an old shoelace. The construction of this makeshift ball was demonstrated 
to the rural teachers by Mr. Braddock Wells. The teachers were assigned 
numbers to create teams; odd numbers on one team and even numbers on the 
other. The team captains chose college names to represent each team name. 
The odds chose Yale & the evens chose Princeton. The game of "Kick Baseball" 
was the last game they played at the conference to decide the championship 
for the day. 10 players were chosen for each team and the remaining were 
organized into a cheering section. Yale kicked first. On the field there 
was no pitcher, but an extra short-stop between first and second. Only 
three innings were completed in the heat that day, with Yale ending up 
as the victor winning 3 to 2. The cheering sections showed great sportsmanship, 
applauding all good plays impartially.[7] American World War II correspondent 
Ernie Pyle reported it being played by U.S. soldiers during the Tunisia 
Campaign, 1942-1943.[8] "Kick Ball" was promoted as an informal game for 
soldiers by the United States Department of the Army as early as 1943. 
In this variant of the game, all kicks had to be home runs, by beating 
the kicked ball back to home after consecutive passes to all basemen before 
throwing them out at home.[9] The game is typically played on a softball 
diamond with an 8.5 inch to 16 inch diameter inflated rubber ball. As in 
baseball/softball, the game uses 3 bases, a pitcher's mound, and a home 
plate. Sometimes, in less formal games, the field is not bounded by a fence 
as in softball or baseball, but is open. This may result in informal rule 
changes to accommodate the field. Also it can be played on a rectangular 
blacktop area with chalk or paint outlines. In the past, kickball was mostly 
considered a child's game in the United States, although recently many 
US cities have created kickball leagues only for adults. Some US cities 
have multiple organized leagues for adults over 21 years of age. It gained 
prominence in the 1970s.[10] Kickball is popular among youth in South Korea. 
Known as balyagu [발야구 (foot-baseball)], it is a staple in PE classes within 
elementary schools.[citation needed] Kickball is referred to as "Soccer-Baseball 
or Chinese Baseball in parts of Canada.[citation needed] In Japan kickball 
is played by elementary school students and is known as キックベース(Kickbase).[11] 
In England, the variation is often played in P.E. lessons in schools and 
is referred to as 'Football-Rounders', a mix of Association Football and 
