Kino Veterans Memorial Stadium is a baseball stadium in Tucson, Arizona. 
The Arizona Diamondbacks and Chicago White Sox formerly utilized the park 
for Cactus League games each March and had their minor league complexes 
on-site. It was also home to the Tucson Sidewinders of the Pacific Coast 
League for the team's last decade in Tucson, running from the stadium's 
1998 opening season to the 2008 season. During that time, it was known 
as Tucson Electric Park or TEP. The stadium was a temporary home (2011–2013) 
to the Tucson Padres (formerly the Portland Beavers) of the Pacific Coast 
League during the team's relocation to El Paso, Texas. It seats 11,500 
fans. Concerts are often held at the stadium as well. The stadium is now 
the preseason home of Major League Soccer's New York Red Bulls, co-host 
with Kino North Stadium of the Desert Diamond Cup preseason soccer tournament, 
and the regular season home of the Pecos League's Tucson Saguaros baseball 
team. The stadium has also hosted Mexican League spring training games. 
Tucson Electric Park opened in 1998. Larger and more modern than central 
Tucson's Hi Corbett Field, it is situated 4 miles south of Hi Corbett, 
at the intersection of several major thoroughfares including I-10 and SR-86. 
TEP opened the same year that the Arizona Diamondbacks began operations 
in Phoenix, and the Tucson Toros moved from Hi Corbett to TEP, renamed 
themselves the Tucson Sidewinders, and became the Diamondbacks' AAA affiliate. 
Furthermore, the Diamondbacks themselves became a tenant of TEP for spring 
training, sharing the facility with the Chicago White Sox (who moved from 
their previous spring training facility in Sarasota, Florida). Across town, 
the Colorado Rockies continued to hold their spring training at Hi Corbett 
Field. The Chicago White Sox had an agreement to move to Glendale in a 
stadium that was completed in the 2009 season. However, the Sox' lease 
on TEP was to last through 2012. In order to leave TEP early, the Sox proposed 
a youth baseball academy backed by Major League Baseball surrounding TEP. 
On November 18, 2008 the Pima County Board of Supervisors agreed to the 
White Sox's revised offer of $5 million, thus allowing the team to move 
to Glendale in time for the 2009 season.[7] The Diamondbacks and the Colorado 
Rockies, spring training occupant of Tucson's Hi Corbett Field, indicated 
that they would both need Tucson to have 3 teams in order to continue playing 
there.[8] Tucson was therefore abandoned as a spring training venue, and 
all Cactus League games now take place in the Phoenix metropolitan area. 
The Diamondbacks and Rockies share the new Salt River Fields at Talking 
Stick, which opened in 2011 near Scottsdale. The Tucson Sidewinders also 
played their last season at TEP in 2008. The team moved to Reno, Nevada, 
renaming itself the Reno Aces and remaining the AAA affiliate of the Diamondbacks. 
At the same time, the Reno Silver Sox of the independent Golden Baseball 
League, displaced by the arrival of the Aces, relocated to Tucson. Instead 
of using TEP, however, the new team located itself at the more historic 
Hi Corbett Field and retook the historic name of the Tucson Toros. TEP 
was thus, for a time, without any Major League or minor league baseball 
tenant. In 2010, after the end of the naming agreement with the local electric 
utility, Tucson Electric Power, the stadium was renamed after Eusebio Kino, 
the Jesuit missionary who first explored southern Arizona in the late 17th 
and early 18th centuries. The Pima County Board of Supervisors approved 
the name change (Kino Veterans Memorial Stadium) on January 18, 2011. In 
2011, the San Diego Padres Triple-A affiliate relocated from Portland, 
Oregon to Kino Veterans Memorial Stadium and renamed itself the Tucson 
Padres. They were formerly known as the Portland Beavers. Originally the 
San Diego Padres organization wanted to arrange for a stadium to be approved 
and constructed in Escondido, California, however that stadium plan later 
fell through when California eliminated their redevelopment agencies.[9] 
The team departed Tucson for El Paso, Texas prior to the beginning of the 
2014 season and assumed the name "El Paso Chihuahuas."[10] The Pima Community 
College Aztecs football played its home games at Kino Veterans Memorial 
Stadium for several seasons. The team will move to the Kino Sports Complex 
North Stadium for its 2014 Fall Football season. Media related to Kino 
