Kirby Puckett (March 14, 1960 – March 6, 2006) was an American professional 
baseball player. He played his entire 12-year Major League Baseball (MLB) 
career as a center fielder for the Minnesota Twins (1984–95). Puckett is 
the Twins' all-time leader in career hits, runs, doubles, and total bases. 
At the time of his retirement, his .318 career batting average was the 
highest by any right-handed American League batter since Joe DiMaggio. 
Puckett was the fourth baseball player during the 20th century to record 
1,000 hits in his first five full calendar years in Major League Baseball, 
and was the second to record 2,000 hits during his first ten full calendar 
years. After being forced to retire at age 35 due to loss of vision in 
one eye from a central retinal vein occlusion,[1] Puckett was elected to 
the Baseball Hall of Fame in 2001, his first year of eligibility. Puckett 
was born in Chicago, Illinois, and raised in Robert Taylor Homes, a housing 
project on Chicago's South Side (the escape from which he frequently referred 
back to during his career).[2] He attended and played baseball for Calumet 
High School (Chicago). After receiving no scholarship offers following 
graduation, Puckett at first went to work on an assembly line for Ford 
Motor Company. However, he was given a chance to attend Bradley University 
and after one year transferred to Triton College. Despite his undersized 
5' 8" frame, the Minnesota Twins selected him in the 1st round (3rd pick) 
of the 1982 Major League Baseball draft. After signing with the team, he 
was assigned to the rookie-league Elizabethton Twins in the Appalachian 
League where he immediately showed why the Twins considered him so highly, 
hitting .382, with 3 home runs, 35 RBI, and 43 steals, in only 65 games, 
albeit against predominantly younger players.[3] In 1983, Puckett was promoted 
to the Single-A Visalia Oaks in the California League and although his 
average was not as high as the previous year—he still hit an impressive 
.318, with 9 home runs, 97 RBI, and 48 stolen bases over 138 games—he continued 
to turn heads in the organization. After being promoted to the AAA Toledo 
Mud Hens to start the 1984 season, Puckett was brought up to the majors 
for good 21 games into the season. Puckett's major league debut came on 
May 8 against the California Angels, a game in which he went 4 for 5 with 
one run.[4] That year, Puckett hit .296 and was fourth in the American 
League in singles.[5] In 1985, Puckett hit .288 and finished fourth in 
the league in hits, third in triples, second in plate appearances, and 
first in at bats.[6] Throughout his career, Puckett would routinely appear 
in the top 10 in the American League in such offensive statistical categories 
as games played, at bats, singles, doubles, and total bases and such defensive 
stats as putouts, assists, and fielding percentage for league center fielders.[7] 
In 1986, Puckett began to emerge as more than just a singles hitter. With 
an average of .328, Puckett was elected to his first all-star game and 
he finished the season seventh in doubles, sixth in home runs, fourth in 
extra base hits, third in slugging percentage, and second in runs scored, 
hits, total bases, and at bats.[8] Kirby was also recognized for his defensive 
skills, earning his first Gold Glove Award.[9] In 1987, the Twins reached 
the post-season for the first time since 1970 despite finishing with a 
mark of 85-77 (a mark that would have put them 4 games behind fourth place 
New York in the American League East). Once there, Puckett helped lead 
the Twins to the 1987 World Series,[10] the Twins' second series appearance 
since relocating to Minnesota and fifth in franchise history. For the season, 
Puckett batted .332 with 28 home runs and 99 RBI[11][12] Although he hit 
only .208 in the Twins' five game AL Championship Series win over the Detroit 
Tigers, Puckett would produce in the seven-game World Series upset over 
the St. Louis Cardinals, where he batted .357.[13] During the year, Puckett 
put on his best performance on August 30 in Milwaukee against the Brewers, 
when he went 6-for-6 with two home runs, one off Juan Nieves in the third 
and the other off closer Dan Plesac in the ninth.[14] Statistically speaking, 
Puckett had his best all around season in 1988, hitting .356 with 24 home 
runs and 121 RBI, finishing third in the AL MVP balloting for the second 
straight season. Although the Twins won 91 games, six more than in their 
championship season, the team would finish a distant second in the American 
League West, 13 games behind the Oakland Athletics.[15] Puckett won the 
AL batting title in 1989 with a mark of .339, while also finishing fifth 
in at bats, second in doubles, first in hits, and second in singles. In 
April 1989, he recorded his 1,000th hit, becoming the fourth player in 
Major League Baseball history to do so in his first five seasons.[16] He 
continued to play well in 1990, but had a down season, finishing with a 
.298 batting average, and the Twins mirrored his performance as the team 
slipped all the way to last place in the AL West.[17] In 1991, the Twins 
got back on the winning track and Puckett led the way by batting .319, 
eighth in the league and Minnesota surged past Oakland midseason to capture 
the division title. The Twins then beat the Toronto Blue Jays in five games 
in the American League Championship Series as Puckett batted .429 with 
two home runs and five RBI to win the ALCS MVP.[18] The subsequent 1991 
World Series was ranked by ESPN to be the best ever played, with four games 
decided on the final pitch and three games going into extra innings. The 
Twins and their opponent, the Atlanta Braves, had each finished last in 
their respective divisions in the year before winning their league pennant, 
something that had never happened before.[19] Going into Game 6, the Twins 
trailed three games to two with each team winning their respective home 
games. Puckett gave the Twins an early lead by driving in Chuck Knoblauch 
with a triple in the first inning. Puckett then made a leaping catch in 
front of the Plexiglass wall in left field to rob Ron Gant of an extra-base 
hit in the third. The game went into extra innings, and in the first at-bat 
of the bottom of the 11th, Puckett hit a dramatic game-winning home run 
on a 2–1 count off of Charlie Leibrandt to send the Series to Game 7.[20] 
This dramatic game has been widely remembered as the high point in Puckett's 
career. The images of Puckett rounding the bases, arms raised in triumph 
(often punctuated by CBS television broadcaster Jack Buck saying "And we'll 
see you tomorrow night!"), are always included in video highlights of his 
career. After Game 6, the Twins replaced the blue seat back and bottom 
where the walk off home run ball was caught with a gold colored set. Both 
of these sets remain in the Twins' archives. The original home run seat 
armrests and hardware, as well as the replacement blue seat back and bottom, 
are now in a private collection of Puckett memorabilia in Minnesota after 
the Metrodome was torn down. The Twins then went on to win Game 7 1-0, 
with Jack Morris throwing a 10-inning complete game, and claimed their 
second World Series crown in five years.[21] However, the Twins did not 
make it back to the postseason during the rest of Puckett's career, although 
Puckett continued to play well. In 1994, Puckett was switched to right 
field and won his first league RBI title by driving in 112 runs.[22] He 
was having another brilliant season in 1995 before having his jaw broken 
by a Dennis Martínez fastball on September 28.[23] After spending the spring 
of 1996 continuing to blister Grapefruit League batting with a .344 average,[2] 
Puckett woke up on March 28 without vision in his right eye. He was diagnosed 
with glaucoma, and was placed on the disabled list for the first time in 
his professional career. Three surgeries over the next few months could 
not restore vision in the eye.[24] When it was apparent that he would never 
be able to play again, Puckett announced his retirement on July 12, 1996, 
at the age of 36.[25] Soon after, the Twins made him an executive vice-president 
of the team and he would also receive the 1996 Roberto Clemente Award for 
community service.[26] The Twins retired Puckett's number 34 in 1997. In 
2001 balloting, he was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in his first 
year of eligibility. In 1999, he ranked Number 86 on The Sporting News 
list of the 100 Greatest Baseball Players.[27] Puckett was admired throughout 
his career. His unquestionable baseball prowess, outgoing personality and 
energy, charity work, community involvement, and attitude earned him the 
respect and admiration of fans across the country. In 1993, he received 
the Branch Rickey Award for his lifetime of community service work.[28] 
Following his retirement Puckett's reputation was assailed by a number 
of incidents. In March 2002, a woman alleged that Puckett's wife Tonya 
had threatened to kill her over an alleged affair with Puckett, and she 
filed an order for protection against Tonya.[29] Later that same month 
another woman asked for protection from Puckett himself, claiming in court 
documents that he had shoved her in his Bloomington condominium during 
the course of an 18-year relationship.[29] In September 2002 Puckett was 
accused of groping a woman in a restaurant bathroom, and was charged with 
false imprisonment, fifth-degree criminal sexual conduct, and fifth-degree 
assault.[30] He was found not guilty of all counts.[31] The controversy, 
however, pressured him to relinquish his role as Twins executive vice president. 
In the March 17, 2003 edition of Sports Illustrated, columnist Frank Deford 
wrote an article entitled "The Rise and Fall of Kirby Puckett", that documented 
Puckett's alleged indiscretions and attempted to contrast his private image 
with the much-revered public image he had previously maintained.[32][33] 
Withdrawing from the team and friends, Puckett moved to Scottsdale, Arizona, 
along with his fiancee Jodi Olson and her son Cameron, in the winter of 
2003. Those who did see him became concerned about Puckett's weight, with 
estimates putting it above 300 pounds. However, there was also optimism 
with news that Puckett planned to marry Olson in June 2005.[2] On the morning 
of March 5, 2006, Kirby Puckett suffered a massive hemorrhagic stroke at 
the home he shared with Olson. He underwent emergency surgery that day 
to relieve pressure on his brain; however, the surgery failed, and his 
former teammates and coaches were notified the following morning that the 
end was near. Many, including 1991 teammates Shane Mack and Kent Hrbek, 
flew to Phoenix to be at his bedside during his final hours along with 
his two children Kirby Jr. and Catherine. His fiancee never left his side. 
Puckett died on March 6, just 8 days from his 46th birthday, shortly after 
being disconnected from life support.[34][35] In the subsequent autopsy, 
the official cause of death was recorded as "cerebral hemorrhage due to 
hypertension." Puckett died at the second-youngest age (behind Lou Gehrig) 
of any Hall of Famer inducted while living, and the youngest to die after 
being inducted in the modern era of the five-season waiting period. Puckett 
was survived by his two sons, Kirby Jr. and Tyler Nygren, and a daughter 
Catherine.[36] A private memorial service was held in the Twin Cities suburb 
of Wayzata on the afternoon of March 12 (declared "Kirby Puckett Day" in 
Minneapolis), followed by a public ceremony held at the Metrodome attended 
by family, friends, ballplayers past and present, and approximately 15,000 
fans (an anticipated capacity crowd dwindled through the day due to a pending 
blizzard). Speakers at the latter service included Hall of Famers Harmon 
Killebrew, Cal Ripken, Jr. and Dave Winfield, and many former teammates 
and coaches. On April 12, 2010, a statue of Puckett was unveiled at the 
plaza of Target Field in Minneapolis. The plaza runs up against the stadium's 
largest gate, Gate 34, numbered in honor of Puckett. The statue represents 
Puckett pumping his fist while running the bases, as he did after his winning 
