Kirk Wesley Rueter (born December 1, 1970) is a former left-handed pitcher 
in Major League Baseball, and is the most successful left-hander in San 
Francisco Giants history. Rueter played for the Montreal Expos and the 
Giants and made most of his career appearances as a starter. Rueter attended 
and played for Murray State University. He is nicknamed "Woody" after his 
resemblance to a character in the animated movie Toy Story, although during 
his time in Montreal he was often referred to as "Captain Kirk". Rueter 
was born in Centralia, Illinois, grew up in Hoyleton, Illinois and graduated 
from Nashville Community High School District 99 in Nashville, Illinois 
in 1988. Drafted by the Montreal Expos in 1991, Rueter broke into the majors 
in 1993 and posted an 8-0 record in 14 games.[1] His years with the Expos 
were uneven after his breakout year, with a reasonable 1994 performance 
followed by a solid 1995 and a mediocre 1996. That year, the San Francisco 
Giants traded Mark Leiter, then the organization's most prominent starting 
pitcher, to the Expos for Rueter and Tim Scott. Scott posted an 8.24 ERA 
with the Giants, but Rueter blossomed into one of the Giants' most dependable 
starters and was with the team for nine seasons. For many fans, Rueter's 
defining moment as a Giant was his gutsy bullpen performance in Game 2 
of the 2000 NLDS, where he relieved starter Shawn Estes after Estes sprained 
his ankle on a baserunning play. In 2000, Rueter was the first pitcher 
to start a major league game at Pacific Bell Park in San Francisco. 2002, 
the year of a Giants' World Series appearance, was statistically Rueter's 
best year. He went 14-8 with a 3.23 ERA. Rueter was the pitcher in Game 
4 of the 2002 World Series; he went six innings, allowing three earned 
runs. Rueter also pitched shutout ball in relief of Liván Hernández in 
Game 7 of the 2002 Series, but the Giants failed to score enough runs to 
come back. In 2003, despite posting a record of 10-5 in 27 starts, Rueter 
had an ERA of 4.53 and had more walks than strikeouts for the first time 
in his career. He began to struggle in 2004 with a 9-12 record and a 4.73 
ERA. In 2005, after posting a 2-7 record and 5.95 ERA, the Giants designated 
him for assignment. His nine-year tenure in San Francisco ended with some 
controversy, as Rueter complained about having to pitch out of the bullpen 
and only pitching three times in his last 41 days as a Giant.[2] Rueter's 
trademarks were his fast-paced pitching style and his large ears. Rueter 
resides in Nashville, Illinois, with his wife and two daughters and his 
home is famous for its "Shed", a large recreational facility filled with 
games and sports memorabilia. Rueter also resided at the Shed during the 
off-seasons of his playing career. When the Giants made trips to St. Louis 
during the baseball season, Rueter invited the team to relax at his Shed. 
On March 6, 2006, Rueter announced his retirement from the game after 13 
seasons.[3] He retired as the most successful left-handed pitcher in San 
Francisco Giants history, with 105 of his 130 career wins in a Giants uniform. 
Rueter is the 20th most successful pitcher in all-time Giants franchise 
history.[4] He is the third most successful pitcher in San Francisco Giants 
history.[2] He made the third most career starts in San Francisco Giants 
history. Only Juan Marichal and Gaylord Perry had more career starts and 
wins.[2] The Giants honored Rueter's career during pregame ceremonies on 
"Kirk Rueter Day" at SBC Park on August 19, 2006, by giving Rueter a lifesize 
bobblehead of his likeness and giving him and his family a trip to Hawaii.[5] 
Throughout his career, Rueter was primarily a control and changeup pitcher. 
His fastball rarely hit 90 mph. He threw changeups, fastballs, sinkers, 
curveballs, cut fastballs, and sliders. Some credited the effects of the 
QuesTec umpiring system to his decline, because Rueter's success came mostly 
from being able to "paint the corners" of the strike zone and the system 
effectively took that ability away from him because it encouraged umpires 
to call a tighter strike zone. Rueter was never a strikeout pitcher; he 
struck out more than a hundred batters in a season only twice in his career. 
Former teammate Rich Aurilia said, "He was very, very capable of winning 
with his stuff because he had confidence in what he could do. He always 
pitched to what his strengths were."[6] Although Rueter never attended 
the University of North Carolina, he is an avid fan of Tar Heels basketball.[7] 
