Kirk Gibson's 1988 World Series home run occurred in Game 1 of the 1988 
World Series, on October 15, 1988, at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles. Gibson, 
pinch hitting for the Los Angeles Dodgers in the bottom of the ninth inning, 
with injuries to both legs, hit a two-run walk-off home run off the Oakland 
Athletics' Dennis Eckersley that won Game 1 for the Dodgers by a score 
of 5–4. After winning the National League West division, the Dodgers were 
considered the underdogs throughout the 1988 postseason, first to the New 
York Mets in the NLCS, then to the A's in the World Series. Gibson, who 
was not expected to play due to injuries in both legs sustained during 
the NLCS, was surprisingly inserted as a pinch hitter with the Dodgers 
trailing 4–3 with two outs and the tying run at first base in the bottom 
of the ninth inning. Gibson's home run—his only plate appearance of the 
series—helped the Dodgers defeat the A's, 4 games to 1, securing their 
sixth World Series title. The play has since become legendary in the baseball 
world, and is regarded as one of the greatest home runs of all time.[1] 
It was voted the "greatest moment in L.A. sports history" in a 1995 poll.[2] 
Many of the images associated with the home run, particularly Gibson pumping 
his fist while circling the bases, are often shown in classic highlight 
reels, usually accompanied by Vin Scully or Jack Buck's call. Though not 
related to his World Series home run, Gibson would be named the 1988 NL 
MVP. He was named to 2 All-Star teams (1985 AL & 1988 NL), but declined 
both invitations. The Dodgers signed outfielder Kirk Gibson as a free agent 
during the 1988 offseason. Gibson, who played the previous nine seasons 
with the Detroit Tigers, quickly became the Dodgers' de facto leader both 
on the field and off. On the field, Gibson led the team with 25 home runs, 
a .290 batting average and 31 stolen bases. The Dodgers, who had only finished 
4th in the National League West in 1987 with a 73–89 (.451) record (17 
games behind the division winning San Francisco Giants), led the NL West 
division standings from late May until the end of the season, easily winning 
the division title with a record of 94–67 (.584), seven games ahead of 
the second-place Cincinnati Reds. One reason why the Dodgers were considered 
underdogs throughout the postseason was that they did not finish the regular 
season ranked in the top five of any major offensive statistical category. 
However, they were strengthened by an excellent starting rotation led by 
ace Orel Hershiser and backed up by Tim Belcher, John Tudor and Tim Leary. 
They also had an outstanding bullpen that included Jay Howell, Jesse Orosco 
and Alejandro Peña. Their opponent in the National League Championship 
Series was the New York Mets, who had compiled a more impressive 100–60 
(.625) regular season record, and had won 10 of their 11 regular-season 
meetings with the Dodgers. The NLCS was a surprisingly close contest given 
the outcomes of the two teams' regular season meetings. Gibson's heroics 
in the series included an improbable catch on wet grass in Game 3 and decisive 
home runs in Games 4 and 5. The series went to a deciding Game 7, which 
the Dodgers won in stunning fashion on the back of Hershiser's 5 hit shutout 
to earn their first World Series trip since 1981.[3] After defeating the 
Mets, the Dodgers faced the Oakland Athletics in the World Series. Oakland 
had compiled a 104–58 (.642) regular season record (the best in the Majors), 
and boasted a powerful lineup led by sluggers Jose Canseco and Mark McGwire, 
and complemented by the likes of Dave Henderson, Dave Parker and Don Baylor. 
The A's, who also boasted 20 game winner Dave Stewart (himself a former 
Dodger from 1978-1982) and closer Dennis Eckersley who had saved 45 games 
during the regular season, had easily accounted for Boston in the ALCS, 
sweeping the Red Sox 4–0. Gibson injured both legs during the NLCS, and 
therefore did not start Game 1. Los Angeles took an early lead on an improbable 
two-run home run by Mickey Hatcher in the first inning. The next inning, 
however, Canseco hit a grand slam to give Oakland a two-run lead. Oakland's 
lead was cut to one run when Mike Scioscia hit an RBI single in the sixth 
inning that scored Mike Marshall. Unknown to the fans and the media at 
the time, Gibson was watching the game on television while undergoing physical 
therapy in the Dodgers' clubhouse.[4] At some point during the game, television 
cameras scanned the Dodgers dugout and commentator Vin Scully, working 
for NBC for the 1988 postseason, observed that Gibson was "nowhere to be 
found".[4] This spurred Gibson to tell Dodgers manager Tommy Lasorda that 
he was available to pinch hit.[4] Gibson immediately returned to the batting 
cage in the clubhouse to take practice swings.[4] With a one-run lead, 
Oakland closer Dennis Eckersley, who led the AL with 45 saves during the 
regular season, was brought in to close out the game and seal the win for 
starter Dave Stewart. Eckersley quickly got Scioscia to pop out to shortstop 
and struck out Jeff Hamilton. Left-handed pinch hitter Mike Davis followed; 
if he got on base the next batter due was the pitcher's spot, which would 
certainly be filled with a pinch hitter. Not wanting the A's to realize 
that Gibson was available, Lasorda sent Dave Anderson to the on-deck circle 
during Davis' plate appearance.[4] A's catcher Ron Hassey got Eckersley's 
attention and pointed at Anderson on-deck.[5] Eckersley, who had seen Davis 
hit for power in the American League, decided he would rather pitch around 
Davis, assuming perhaps that the right-handed hitting Anderson would prove 
to be the easier out. Instead of risking making a mistake that Davis could 
hit for a game-tying home run, Eckersley pitched carefully and did in fact 
walk him. Instead of sending Anderson to the plate, Lasorda inserted Gibson 
as his pinch hitter. Gibson hobbled up to the plate with Scully commenting, 
"And look who's coming up!" Gibson quickly got behind in the count, 0–2, 
but received two outside pitches from Eckersley to work to a 2–2 count. 
He then swung clumsily and dribbled the ensuing 2–2 pitch foul down the 
first base line, which seemed to confirm his inability to swing with any 
authority. On the sixth pitch of the at bat – a ball – Davis stole second. 
Dodger manager Tommy Lasorda later recounted it was pre-planned that if 
the count got to two strikes on Gibson, they would have Davis steal second, 
figuring that A's manager Tony La Russa wouldn't elect to intentionally 
walk Gibson if there were already two strikes against him. Once Davis was 
at second, Lasorda was just hoping Gibson could muscle a pitch to the outfield 
for a game-tying single.[5] Gibson would later recount that prior to the 
Series, Dodger scout Mel Didier had provided a report on Eckersley which 
claimed that with a 3–2 count against a left-handed hitter, one could be 
absolutely certain that Eckersley would throw a backdoor slider.[4] Gibson 
said that when the count reached 3–2, he stepped out of the batter's box 
and, in his mind, could hear Didier's voice, with its distinctive Southern 
drawl, reiterating that same piece of advice.[4] With that thought in mind, 
Gibson stepped back into the batter's box; and thus when Eckersley did 
in fact throw a backdoor slider, it was exactly the pitch Gibson was expecting. 
Swinging almost entirely with his upper body, Gibson then hit the pitch 
over the right-field fence. He limped around the bases and pumped his fist 
as his teammates stormed the field. The Dodgers won the game, 5–4. Gibson 
did not have another plate appearance in the World Series. The Dodgers 
went on to defeat the A's in the World Series, 4–1. Well, the crowd on 
its feet and if there was ever a preface, to "Casey at the Bat," it would 
have to be the ninth inning. Two out. The tying run aboard, the winning 
run at the plate, and Kirk Gibson, standing at the plate. Gibson, a deep 
sigh ... re-gripping the bat ... shoulders just shrugged ... now goes to 
the top of the helmet, as he always does ... steps in with that left foot. 
Eckersley, working out of the stretch ... here's the three-two pitch ... 
and a drive hit to right field (voice changes to high pitch) WAY BACK! 
THIS BALL ... IS GONE! (After delay) This crowd will not stop! They can't 
believe the ending! And this time, Mighty Casey did NOT strike out! All 
year long, they looked to him to light the fire, [Scully began] and all 
year long, he answered the demands, until he was physically unable to start 
tonight—with two bad legs: The bad left hamstring, and the swollen right 
knee. And, with two out, you talk about a roll of the dice... this is it. 
Scully, calling the play-by-play for the NBC-TV (as previously mentioned) 
broadcast with color commentator Joe Garagiola, made repeated references 
to Gibson's legs, noting at one point that the batter was shaking his left 
leg, making it quiver, like a horse trying to get rid of a troublesome 
fly. Gibson worked the count to 3–2 as Mike Davis stole second base; the 
camera turned at that point to Steve Sax getting ready for his turn at 
the plate, and Scully reminded the viewers that Sax waiting on deck but 
the game right now is at the plate. High fly ball into right field, she 
i-i-i-is... GONE!!! Scully said nothing for over a minute, allowing the 
pictures to tell the story. Finally, he said, In a year that has been so 
improbable... the impossible has happened! Returning to the subject of 
Gibson's banged-up legs during a replay, Scully joked, And, now, the only 
question was, could he make it around the base paths unassisted?! You know, 
I said it once before, a few days ago, that Kirk Gibson was not the Most 
Valuable Player; that the Most Valuable Player for the Dodgers was Tinkerbell. 
But, tonight, I think Tinkerbell backed off for Kirk Gibson. And, look 
at Eckersley—shocked to his toes! They are going wild at Dodger Stadium—no 
one wants to leave! As NBC showed a replay of Gibson rounding second base 
in his home run trot, Scully then made a point to note Eckersley's pitching 
performance throughout the 1988 season, to put things in perspective. Dennis 
Eckersley allowed five home runs all year. And we'll be back. CBS handled 
the national radio broadcast of the 1988 World Series, with Jack Buck providing 
play-by-play and Bill White as the analyst. This was Buck's call. It begins 
here with Buck speculating on what might happen if Gibson manages to reach 
base: ... then you would run for Gibson and have Sax batting. But, we have 
a big 3–2 pitch coming here from Eckersley. Gibson swings, and a fly ball 
to deep right field! This is gonna be a home run! Unbelievable! A home 
run for Gibson! And the Dodgers have won the game, five to four; I don't 
believe what I just saw! The last sentence is often remembered and quoted 
by fans. Buck followed it with, I don't believe what I just saw! Is this 
really happening, Bill? Buck concluded his comments on Gibson's amazing 
feat with this thought: One of the most remarkable finishes to any World 
Series Game...a one-handed home run by Kirk Gibson! And the Dodgers have 
won it...five to four; and I'm stunned, Bill. I have seen a lot of dramatic 
finishes in a lot of sports, but this one might top almost every other 
one. The home run was included as a finalist in a Major League Baseball 
contest to determine the sport's "Greatest Moment of All-Time." For years 
after the fact, it was regularly used in This Week in Baseball's closing 
montage sequence. An edited audio of Scully's 1988 call has been used in 
2005 post-season action, in a TV ad featuring a recreational softball game, 
with a portly player essentially re-enacting that entire moment as he hits 
the softball over the right field fence to win the game. It was in competition 
on ESPN's SportsCenter for the Greatest Sports Highlight of All-Time. By 
the time Gibson returned to his locker for postgame interviews, Dodger 
bullpen coach Mark Cresse had taped the name of Roy Hobbs over Gibson's 
nameplate, in reference to Gibson's heroics mirroring those of the film 
slugger that Robert Redford had played in The Natural. Like Hobbs in the 
film's climactic scene, Gibson had represented the winning run when he 
came to the plate, had been down to his (and the team's) final strike and 
had homered to right field to win the game. The fate of the ball itself 
is unknown. According to Gibson, a woman sent him a picture of the bruise 
on her leg where the ball hit her, although no one has yet come forward 
with the ball.[1] In fiction, a court struggle over the ownership of the 
ball was the primary plot of the June 29, 2011, episode of TNT legal drama 
Franklin & Bash. Near the end of the Major League Baseball season in the 
fall of 2011, Chevrolet began airing commercials for their Diamond & Dream's 
Program, a giveaway designed to help the youth in their communities around 
the country. Prizes included a makeover for their baseball field. The commercials 
showed selected little league baseball players acting out some of baseball's 
greatest moments in history. One of them being Kirk Gibson's famous home 
run from the 1988 World Championship run of the Los Angeles Dodgers. The 
young boy acting out this moment could be seen running the bases, doing 
the same fist pump motion that Gibson was seen doing during his famous 
run around the bases. The structure, tone, and overall style of Ernest 
Thayer's famous poem "Casey at the Bat: A Ballad of the Republic Sung in 
the Year 1888"—first published in 1888 and "the single most famous baseball 
poem ever written" according to the Baseball Almanac[6]—was adapted by 
Michael J. Farrand in 2000 to create "The Man Who Gave All the Dreamers 
in Baseball Land Bigger Dreams to Dream" about the Gibson home run, but 
this time reversing the infamous outcome. This adaptation appears at the 
Baseball Almanac. Farrand's choice of poetic model was prompted by the 
observation of Mike Scioscia, then the Dodger catcher: "It was 'Casey at 
the Bat,' except this time Casey hits a home run."[7] For his part, Gibson 
said: "It really was not that bad a pitch, and I put an ugly swing on it." 
