Kirk Edward McCaskill (born April 9, 1961, in Kapuskasing, Ontario, Canada) 
is a retired Major League Baseball pitcher and a retired professional hockey 
player. McCaskill played for two different ballclubs during his career: 
the California Angels (1985–91), and Chicago White Sox (1992–96). He made 
his Major League Baseball debut on May 1, 1985, and played his final game 
on July 20, 1996. He also played professional hockey for the Sherbrooke 
Jets of the American Hockey League, a farm team for the NHL’s Winnipeg 
Jets, the team which drafted him in the 4th round, 64th overall in the 
1981 NHL Entry Draft. McCaskill was born in Kapuskasing, Ontario, where 
his father Ted McCaskill played for the local senior league hockey team.[1] 
As a child, McCaskill moved several times due to his father's professional 
hockey career. He lived in Nashville, Memphis, Vancouver, Phoenix, Newport 
Beach and Huntington Beach.[1] McCaskill's father retired from hockey in 
1975 and his family settled in Paradise Valley, Arizona.[1] McCaskill attended 
Edison High School in Huntington Beach his Freshman year before being accepted 
at Trinity-Pawling School in Pawling, New York. He move to the boarding 
school mainly to pursue his hockey career, but continued to play baseball 
while there.[1] During his senior year, McCaskill had an 8–0 record with 
an 0.97 ERA and 97 strikeouts, scored 26 goals and 22 assists in 17 hockey 
games, and was the varsity soccer team's leading goal-scorer.[1] He turned 
down a baseball scholarship to Arizona State University so that he could 
pursue both hockey and baseball at the University of Vermont.[1] All-ECAC 
in baseball and hockey as a collegiate student-athlete, McCaskill was drafted 
in the fourth round of the 1982 amateur draft by the California Angels 
(88th overall), from the University of Vermont, and would be the first 
baseball player from UVM to reach the major leagues since Jack Lamabe in 
1962. He would debut in 1985, but his break-out season was 1986, with the 
American League West champion California Angels. He compiled a win-loss 
record of 17–10, with a 3.36 earned run average, and 202 strikeouts. He 
also totaled ten complete games on the season, and would go on to have 
six seasons of ten or more wins, throw two one-hitters, rank in the American 
League top ten in shutouts and earned run average three times each. On 
September 14, 1990 Kirk was the pitcher of record when Ken Griffey Sr., 
and Ken Griffey, Jr became the first father son duo to hit back to back 
home runs. At the end of his career, he played for the Fiorentina Baseball 
team, in Florence, Italy. In 2003, McCaskill was inducted into the Canadian 
Baseball Hall of Fame, along with Joe Carter, Richard Bélec, and the Asahi. 
In response to the news of induction, McCaskill was quoted as saying, "I 
am stunned by this wonderful news. I can't wait to tell my family and my 
parents. I am very proud of my Canadian heritage, and this is going to 
be an honor of a lifetime." McCaskill played center and right wing for 
the University of Vermont from 1979 to 1983. In 1982, McCaskill was a finalist 
for the Hobey Baker Award and named to that season's NCAA East All-America 
First Team and the ECAC All-Star First Team. He was the team captain during 
the 1982–83 season, and won the Cunningham Award as the Most Valuable Player 
on the Catamounts. McCaskill was drafted in the fourth round (64th overall) 
by the Winnipeg Jets in the 1981 NHL Entry Draft. He played only one season 
of professional hockey for the Sherbrooke Jets, a Jets farm team. McCaskill 
dressed for one game with the Winnipeg Jets of the NHL but did not play 
in the game. During the 1983–84 season, he scored 10 goals and added 12 
assists for 22 points. He retired from professional hockey after the one 
season to focus on his professional baseball career. For his achievement 
in hockey and baseball, McCaskill was inducted into the Vermont Sports 
Hall of Fame in 2015. Kirk and his wife, Dana, have three sons: Riley, 
Reese, and Bennett and he currently resides in Cardiff by the Sea, California. 
McCaskill has dual U.S.-Canadian citizenship. He currently is the Varsity 
