As player As manager As coach Kirk Harold Gibson (born May 28, 1957) is 
an American former professional baseball player and manager. As a player, 
Gibson was an outfielder who batted and threw left-handed. He spent most 
of his career with the Detroit Tigers but also played for the Los Angeles 
Dodgers, Kansas City Royals, and Pittsburgh Pirates. Gibson is currently 
a color commentator for the Detroit Tigers on Fox Sports Detroit. While 
with the Dodgers, Gibson was named the National League MVP in 1988. In 
game 1 of the 1988 World Series, Gibson faced heralded closer Dennis Eckersley 
and hit a pinch-hit walk-off home run—often described as one of the most 
exciting and iconic moments in World Series history.[1] He was named to 
the All-Star team twice, in 1985 and 1988, but declined the invitation 
both times. He announced his retirement from baseball in August 1995. Following 
his retirement as a player, he spent five seasons as a television analyst 
in Detroit, then became a coach for the Tigers in 2003. He became the Diamondbacks' 
bench coach in 2007, and was promoted to interim manager in 2010 following 
the midseason dismissal of A. J. Hinch. On October 4, 2010, the Diamondbacks 
removed the "interim" label, naming Gibson their manager for the 2011 season.[2] 
Gibson served as the Diamondbacks' manager until September 26, 2014.[3] 
Gibson was born in Pontiac, Michigan on May 28, 1957,[4] grew up in Waterford, 
Michigan (attending Waterford Kettering High School), and attended Michigan 
State University where he was an All-American wide receiver in football. 
Gibson's college football career was distinguished by leading the Spartans 
to a tie for the Big Ten title, setting school and conference receiving 
records, starring in the Hula Bowl and Senior Bowl and making several All-America 
teams. It was at the suggestion of Spartan football coach Darryl Rogers 
that Gibson played collegiate baseball.[5] Gibson played only one year 
of college baseball, but managed to hit .390 with 16 homers and 52 RBIs 
in 48 games.[6] He was drafted by both the Detroit Tigers baseball team 
(1st round) and the St. Louis Cardinals (now the Arizona Cardinals) football 
team (7th round). He chose baseball. Gibson played as the regular right 
fielder for the Detroit Tigers from 1983 to 1987. He helped the Tigers 
win the 1984 World Series. He became a free agent after the 1985 season, 
but received no significant offers, due to what was later determined to 
be collusion among the owners of MLB teams. He re-signed with the Tigers, 
and in 1987 helped them to win the American League East by one game over 
the Blue Jays in an enthralling divisional race. However, Detroit lost 
the 1987 American League Championship Series to the eventual World Champion 
Twins. Early in his career, Gibson was proclaimed by manager Sparky Anderson 
to be the next Mickey Mantle. Anderson later apologized and said that probably 
put too much pressure on a young and inexperienced Gibson. Nevertheless, 
Gibson was considered a versatile power/speed player in the 1980s who was 
able to hit home runs as well as steal bases.[7] He finished in the top 
10 in home runs 3 times in his career and ranked in the top 10 in stolen 
bases 4 times. He fell one home run short of becoming the first Tiger in 
the 30–30 club in 1985. Gibson was known for hitting clutch home runs. 
In the eighth inning of Game 5 of the 1984 World Series between the Tigers 
and Padres, he faced Goose Gossage, one of the game's premier relievers, 
with Detroit up 5-4 and runners on second and third with one out. An intentional 
(or at least semi-intentional) walk seemed to be in order, especially since 
Gibson had already homered earlier in the game. But Gossage told San Diego 
manager Dick Williams he thought he could strike him out. Indeed, Gossage 
had struck out Gibson in his very first Major League at-bat in 1979 on 
3 pitches, and Kirk had only managed one bunt-single against Gossage in 
10 previous plate appearances.[8] Gossage later said he had told teammate 
Tim Lollar in the second inning, "I own him", when asked about Gibson.[9] 
If the Padres could hold the Tigers and score a couple in the ninth, they 
would force the Series back to San Diego, and maybe turn the tide. In the 
Sounds of the Game video, Detroit manager Sparky Anderson was seen yelling 
at Gibson from the dugout, "He don't want to walk you!", showing four fingers 
then making a bat-swinging motion, the universal baseball gesture for "swing 
away." Gibson got the message, and launched Gossage's 1-0 fastball deep 
into Tiger Stadium's right field upper deck for a three-run homer, icing 
the game and the Series for the Tigers. In the ESPN interview with Gossage 
and Williams that aired after the 2008 Hall of Fame inductions, Williams 
took responsibility for the situation, as he allowed Gossage to talk him 
into pitching to Gibson. At the same time, Williams ribbed Gossage that 
Gibson's home run damaged several seats, "in consecutive rows." In 1988, 
an arbitrator ruled that baseball team owners had colluded against the 
players in an effort to stem free agency. He granted several players, including 
Gibson, immediate free agency. Gibson signed with the Los Angeles Dodgers.[10] 
Gibson joined the Dodgers in 1988, and immediately brought a winning attitude 
after a publicized blow-up when pitcher Jesse Orosco put shoe black in 
his cap during a spring training prank. Gibson openly criticized the team, 
which had finished 4th in the NL West the previous season, for its unprofessionalism. 
He became the team's de facto leader, and won a controversial NL MVP award 
after batting .290 with 25 home runs, 76 RBIs, 106 runs, and 31 stolen 
bases. While he didn't lead the league in any major category, the intensity 
and leadership he brought to an increasingly successful team likely won 
him the award over players with more impressive statistics.[6] In the 1988 
National League Championship Series against the New York Mets, Gibson made 
an improbable catch in left field at a rain-soaked Shea Stadium in Game 
3. Racing back, he slipped on the wet grass and, while on his way down 
with his knees on the ground and the rest of his body suspended, reached 
out and made a full extension catch to save a potential Mookie Wilson double; 
however, the Dodgers lost the game 8-4. In Game 4, his solo home run in 
the top of the 12th proved the winning hit. In Game 5, he hit a two-out 
three-run homer in the fifth; the Dodgers ended up winning the game 7-4. 
Nonetheless, his LCS heroics served as but a prelude to the career-defining 
moment that awaited him in the subsequent World Series. Gibson is perhaps 
best known for his one and only plate appearance in the 1988 World Series 
against the Oakland Athletics. Having injured both legs during the NLCS, 
Gibson was not expected to play at all. In Game 1, however, with the Dodgers 
trailing by a score of 4–3, Mike Davis on first base, and two out in the 
ninth inning, manager Tommy Lasorda unexpectedly inserted his hobbled league 
MVP as a pinch hitter. Gibson, limping back and forth between a pulled 
left hamstring and a swollen right knee, made his way to the plate to face 
Oakland's future Hall of Fame closer Dennis Eckersley. Gibson quickly got 
behind in the count 0–2, but laid off a pair of outside pitches that were 
called balls. He then kept the count at 2–2 by fouling off a pitch. On 
the 7th pitch of his at bat, a ball, Davis stole second. With an awkward, 
almost casual swing, Gibson used pure upper-body strength—and according 
to Gibson, advanced scouting-based knowledge of what the pitcher would 
likely throw with that count—to smack a 3–2 backdoor slider over the right-field 
fence. He hobbled around the bases and pumped his right fist as his jubilant 
teammates stormed the field. The Dodgers won the game, 5–4, and would go 
on to win the World Series, four games to one. In 1991, Gibson signed as 
a free agent with the Kansas City Royals, and then in 1992 he was traded 
to the Pittsburgh Pirates. He retired from baseball temporarily, after 
being released by the Pirates on May 5, 1992. A month later, Gibson got 
an offer to return to Detroit—not with the Tigers, but to play football 
again, with the Arena Football League's Detroit Drive; he declined the 
offer.[11] The following spring, Sparky Anderson convinced him to return 
to baseball. He spent the final three years of his career (1993–1995) back 
with the Detroit Tigers, including a renaissance season in 1994 when he 
slugged 23 homers. He was a Detroit Tigers television analyst on FSN Detroit 
for five seasons, from 1998–2002. On February 10, 2015, it was announced 
that Gibson will return as a color commentator for the Detroit Tigers on 
Fox Sports Detroit, along with former teammate Jack Morris.[12] In 2003, 
he was named the Tigers' bench coach by new Tigers manager and former Tigers 
teammate Alan Trammell. He served in that position until the midway point 
of the 2005 season when he was moved from bench coach to hitting coach, 
swapping positions with Bruce Fields. As of the start of the 2007 Major 
League Baseball season, Gibson became the new Arizona Diamondbacks bench 
coach. Gibson had worn #23 as a player in both football at Michigan State 
and baseball throughout his career. However, while coaching for the Tigers, 
he wore #22 after #23 was retired for Willie Horton. Gibson wore #23 as 
manager for the Arizona Diamondbacks. On July 1, 2010, the Arizona Diamondbacks 
fired A. J. Hinch as manager and promoted Gibson from his position as bench 
coach to interim manager.[13] Shortly after the season, Gibson was named 
permanent manager and given a two-year contract.[14] In his first full 
year as manager, Gibson led the Diamondbacks to their first N.L. West title 
since 2007, when most sports writers expected them to be in last place 
for the third time in a row. He was named NL Manager of the Year on November 
16, 2011. On September 26, 2014 the Arizona Diamondbacks fired Gibson, 
effectively ending his four-year tenure with the team.[15] He finished 
his Diamondbacks career with a 353–375 regular season and 2–3 post–season 
record.[16] Gibson married JoAnn Sklarski on December 22, 1985, in a double 
ceremony where Tiger pitcher Dave Rozema married JoAnn's sister Sandy. 
They were married at Grosse Pointe Memorial Church in Grosse Pointe Farms, 
Michigan. The Gibsons reside in Grosse Pointe, Michigan, and have four 
children: Colleen, Cam, Kirk, and Kevin.[17] Gibson's son Cam was drafted 
by the Detroit Tigers in the 5th round, 160th overall, in the 2015 Major 
League Baseball draft.[18] Gibson set an aviation record in 1987.[19] He 
flew a Cessna 206 to a height of 25,200 feet in Lakeland, Florida.[20] 
The record was certified by the National Aeronautic Association.[21] He 
has been nominated for induction into the College Football Hall of Fame 
multiple times.[22][23] Gibson is an avid deer hunter. He and former teammate 
David Wells, along with current MLB pitcher Jake Peavy, own a 1,300 acre 
hunting ranch near Millersburg, Michigan, which they named the "Buck Falls 
Ranch".[24] On April 28, 2015, it was announced that Gibson was diagnosed 
