KMOX (1120 kHz) is an AM radio station broadcasting from St. Louis, Missouri. 
It is a 50,000-watt clear channel radio station, which permits its nighttime 
signal to be heard in most of the central U.S. and into Mexico and Canada. 
KMOX operates as "NewsRadio 1120" and refers to itself as "The Voice of 
St. Louis."[1][2] KMOX is affiliated with the CBS Radio Network and licensed 
to a CBS Corporation subsidiary, CBS Radio. KMOX's transmitter is located 
in Pontoon Beach, Illinois. The KMOX studio is located at 1220 Olive Street 
in the Park Pacific Building at Olive Street and Tucker Boulevard. CBS 
Radio also has studios and offices there for its two other St. Louis radio 
stations, KYKY (Y98) and 102.5 KEZK-FM.[3] For many years, KMOX broadcast 
using C-QUAM AM stereo, but stereo transmissions ended in the spring of 
2000. The station now broadcasts an HD Radio signal.[4] The Federal Communications 
Commission requires a digital (hybrid) license for HD broadcasting.[5] 
KMOX, along with WSDZ, are responsible for the activation of the Greater 
St. Louis Emergency Alert System for hazardous weather, disaster declarations, 
etc.[citation needed] KMOX was started in the early days of broadcasting 
by a group of businessmen incorporated as The Voice of St. Louis Inc. According 
to the station's official website, the "KMOX" call letters were assigned 
by the Federal Radio Commission. The station's owners had hoped to be assigned 
"KVSL", for "Voice of St. Louis." The owners also applied for "KMO" (with 
MO the abbreviation for Missouri), but those call letters had been in use 
by KMO in Tacoma since 1922. KMOX signed on December 24, 1925. The "X" 
was added because the starting date was Christmas Eve, or "X"mas eve. Although 
a local legend states the call letters mean Kirkwood, Missouri On Xmas, 
the K was the assigned first call letter of all new radio stations west 
of the Mississippi River.[citation needed] In 1927, the station gave prominent 
coverage to the Charles Lindbergh flight across the Atlantic, in his plane, 
The Spirit of St. Louis. That same year, KMOX became one of the first 16 
stations in the CBS network.[6] Two years later CBS bought KMOX, and began 
the process of getting approval to build a 50,000-watt transmitter tower. 
When completed, it gave the now-clear-channel station a signal that could 
be heard as far away as New Zealand and the Arctic Circle, making it one 
of the first international radio stations. Its signal has been picked up 
in Scotland and South Africa.[7][8] In 1933, KMOX covered the first post-Prohibition 
case of Budweiser beer leaving the Anheuser-Busch St. Louis brewery for 
the White House, a story carried nationally by CBS.[citation needed] During 
the 1930s and 1940s, KMOX was one of several St. Louis stations broadcasting 
Cardinals and Browns baseball games. KMOX lost broadcasting rights in 1948 
when a new Cardinals radio network was formed by the team, but by the 1950s, 
it became the flagship station of that network (in part due to its clear 
channel status).[citation needed] During the 1950s, the station's slogan 
was "k-mocks", pronouncing the way the station's call letters are spelled.[citation 
needed] In 1955 Robert Hyland Jr became KMOX's general manager, a role 
he held for nearly forty years. It was Hyland who emphasized and leveraged 
KMOX's relationship with the Cardinals; he also made the decision in 1960 
to eliminate the station's afternoon music programming in favor of talk 
radio, a critical change which led to the station's subsequent dominance 
of the St. Louis radio market. On February 29 of that year, Jack Buck hosted 
the first "At Your Service" program, which included an interview with Eleanor 
Roosevelt. That program, like the sports talk programs that soon followed, 
pioneered a format for radio heavily dependent on interviews, guest appearances, 
and calls from listeners.[citation needed] After Hyland died in 1992, Rod 
Zimmerman was named general manager. He departed in 1998 to manage WBBM 
Radio in Chicago. KMOX picked up Costas Coast to Coast in 1994. Also, in 
July of that year Bob Costas began hosting a sports call-in show on the 
station.[9] Karen Carroll was general manager from 1998 until 2003, when 
Tom Langmyer was promoted to the top position. Langmyer left in 2005 to 
become vice president/general manager of WGN Radio in Chicago. Dave Ervin 
managed the station from 2005 to 2008. John Sheehan, who also oversees 
sister stations KEZK and KYKY is the station's current Market Manager for 
CBS. KMOX started broadcasting in HD Radio in May 2006.[citation needed][10] 
The station's emphasis had shifted away from broadcasting St. Louis professional 
sports teams. In 2000, the St. Louis Blues hockey team moved to KTRS after 
having been on KMOX for all but three of the team's 33 seasons (1967–2000), 
but it would return starting in the 2006–07 season. In 2006, the Cardinals' 
broadcasts moved to KTRS 550 AM after 52 seasons on KMOX (1954–2005) after 
the team purchased controlling interest in KTRS.[citation needed] On September 
1, 2010, the Cardinals announced the return of broadcasts to KMOX, starting 
in the 2011 baseball season.[11] KMOX aired the Missouri Tigers football 
and basketball games for many years.[citation needed] Starting in the Fall 
2011, the Tigers moved their basketball, football, and news & talk programs 
to KTRS.[12] On January 30, 2012, Jon Grayson's "Overnight America", based 
at KMOX, and also airing on CBS stations WCCO Minneapolis and KDKA Pittsburgh, 
became a nationally syndicated program with several dozen stations airing 
it across the country. KMOX has had a long history of broadcasting sports. 
In 1926, it broadcast the Cardinals-Yankees World Series, and starting 
the next season the station was regularly carrying Cardinals' games. KMOX's 
most famous sports figure was Jack Buck, who was the station's year-round 
sports director during the years he was also calling baseball and football 
for the CBS radio and television networks. Another famous figure was Harry 
Caray, who did play-by-play for Cardinals' baseball from 1945 through 1969. 
Bob Costas did play-by-play on KMOX for the Spirits of St. Louis of the 
American Basketball Association from 1974 until the ABA-NBA merger in June 
1976.[citation needed] The station continues to host sports programming 
such as "Sports on a Sunday Morning" with host Ron Jacober, and "Sports 
Open Line." Kevin Wheeler and Ron Jacober host "Sports Open Line", which 
airs every weekday night.[13] While the station has been a leader in sports 
play-by-play, KMOX is best known in St. Louis for its format of news and 
talk. The station offers news, weather and traffic updates throughout the 
day. KMOX held the distinction of holding the record for consecutive number 
one Arbitron ratings books in the United States. The station was consistently 
the number one radio station with listeners 12 and older from 1972 to 2010, 
when music station WARH (106.5 FM) took over the top spot in the Arbs.[citation 
needed] KMOX has carried the Rush Limbaugh show weekdays 11am-2pm for many 
years. The program is pre-empted by St. Louis Cardinals' afternoon games. 
This is one of the very few non-local shows broadcast on the station.[14] 
For the past eleven Decembers[when?], KMOX has hosted a holiday radio program, 
in which KMOX personalities perform an old-time radio show in front of 
a live audience.[citation needed] Notable current and past KMOX broadcasters 
