KNBR: KTCT: KNBR is an AM radio station licensed to San Francisco, broadcasting 
on a clear channel at 680 kHz from transmitting facilities near Belmont, 
California. KNBR's non-directional 50,000-watt class-A signal can be heard 
throughout much of the western United States and as far west as the Hawaiian 
Islands at night. For several decades, KNBR enjoyed a long history as the 
flagship station of NBC's West Coast radio operations. A second station 
also uses the KNBR brand. KTCT (1050 kHz) is licensed to San Mateo, California, 
with a transmitter located near Hayward, California. It carried a separate 
sports format known as "The Ticket". "The Sports Leader" is the on-air 
branding used by both stations. The KNBR re-branding took place in 2003. 
Both stations' studios are located at 750 Battery Street in San Francisco's 
Financial District.[2] Between the two stations, games of the San Francisco 
Giants, San Francisco 49ers, Stanford Cardinal, and San Jose SaberCats 
are broadcast to the San Francisco Bay Area. KTCT is available in the HD 
format on 1050 kHz.[3] KNBR began broadcasting on April 17, 1922 as KPO, 
a 100-watt station owned by the Hale Brothers department store. In 1925, 
the San Francisco Chronicle newspaper bought half-interest in the operation.[4] 
Originally located in the department store at Market and 5th (now the site 
of Nordstrom), its horizontal wire antenna on the roof was so efficient, 
it immediately attracted the attention of audiences all over the Pacific 
Coast. In 1927, KPO became an affiliate of the new NBC radio network. In 
1933, KPO was sold to NBC's parent company, the Radio Corporation of America 
(RCA),[4] and its operation was consolidated into that of its co-owned 
KGO at the Hunter-Dulin Building, 111 Sutter Street. From there, NBC operated 
its West Coast network, feeding dozens of stations and operating a news 
bureau to serve NBC. As NBC's flagship station on the West Coast, it had 
a full-time orchestra, five studios, and produced many live shows. During 
the rise of Hollywood, NBC's radio operation was moved to Los Angeles. 
In 1941, just before World War II, NBC constructed Radio City at 420 Taylor 
Street, considered one of the best radio facilities built during radio's 
golden age. However, with the network control having been moved to Los 
Angeles, the San Francisco NBC building was never fully utilized. (Later, 
the building housed KBHK-TV, and now houses the headquarters of a janitorial 
service.) During World War II, KPO's news bureau was the major source of 
NBC of news about the war in the Pacific, and operated shortwave radio 
stations (transmitters located in Dixon) serving the world. It was at the 
KPO (RCA) shortwave facility that the message was received that Japanese 
emperor Hirohito had surrendered, ending World War II.[1] On November 12, 
1947, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) approved NBC's application 
to change the call sign from KPO to KNBC,[4] to strengthen its identity 
as an NBC station (and the only radio station NBC ever owned on the West 
Coast). This change lasted until 1962, when the network moved the call 
sign to its television station in Los Angeles, and the radio station was 
renamed KNBR.[5] In November 1949, NBC television affiliate KRON-TV went 
on the air. Only before the TV station's first airdate did NBC fight for 
the construction permit for the TV station until it lost the bid to the 
de Young family, then the owners of the San Francisco Chronicle. In the 
1950s when NBC scrapped its comedy, drama, variety shows, and serials, 
the Los Angeles facility was sold and demolished, and KNBC/KNBR once again 
became the West Coast NBC network control center and West Coast NBC Radio 
news operation. KNBR evolved into a Middle of the road music format mixing 
in Adult Standards with Soft Rock cuts by the early 1960s. The station 
continued to be a news intensive format with personalities in the foreground 
and music in the background. Personalities included Frank Dill, Les Williams, 
Dave Niles, and Jack Hayes. Until January, 1975, KNBR carried NBC's long-running 
weekend show, Monitor. By the mid-1970s, KNBR evolved musically into a 
straight ahead adult contemporary music format and continued as such into 
the 1980s. In 1989 NBC sold KNBR to Susquehanna Radio Corporation. It was 
the last radio property held by NBC, which two years earlier made the decision 
to sell off its radio division following General Electric's 1986 acquisition 
of RCA. The station soon added some sports talk in evenings, and took a 
full-time sports format in 1990 with the lone exception of The Rush Limbaugh 
Show, which KNBR carried from 1988 until 2000. KNBR carried programs from 
ESPN Radio and KTCT aired shows from both ESPN Radio and Fox Sports Radio 
until 2013, when both stations switched to the Cumulus-distributed CBS 
Sports Radio. In 2015, KNBR's studios were relocated from 55 Hawthorne 
Street to 750 Battery Street after parent Cumulus Media consolidated its 
San Francisco radio stations in one building.[2] KNBR and KTCT are owned 
by Cumulus Media Partners, LLC,[6] a private partnership of Cumulus Media, 
Bain Capital, The Blackstone Group, and Thomas H. Lee Partners. It was 
purchased from Susquehanna-Pfaltzgraff Media in 2005 along with other Susquehanna 
Radio Corporation stations.[7] In 1997, the parent company of KNBR bought 
KOFY-AM 1050 and converted it to a sports talk station branded "The Ticket 
1050" with call letters KTCT.[8] In 2003, several years after KNBR's parent 
company acquired the 1050 AM signal and converted it to KTCT, "The Ticket 
1050", the company opted to re-brand KTCT as another version of KNBR. Both 
stations feature game broadcasts and sports talk, including shows hosted 
by Bay Area staple Tom Tolbert. Some shows are simulcast on both 680 and 
1050. KTCT 1050 is the local home of NASCAR Sprint Cup Series racing,[9] 
as well as the Sabercats. Some Warriors games were and most of the 49ers 
preseason games have been broadcast on 1050 AM, as the Giants have priority 
on 680 AM. At night, KTCT is plagued by interference caused by radio station 
XED-AM in Mexicali, which operates with more than its authorized power.[10] 
U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) negotiations with Secretariat 
of Communications and Transportation (Mexico) have been unsuccessful. Since 
1999 KTCT has had special temporary authority to use its 50,000-watt daytime 
power and pattern at night. KNBR has been the radio home of the San Francisco 
Giants since 1979. San Francisco native and Baseball Hall of Fame broadcaster 
Jon Miller and Dave Flemming handle play-by-play for the majority of the 
radio broadcasts. Miller and Flemming are frequently joined by former Giants 
players Mike Krukow and Duane Kuiper, the main television team on CSN Bay 
Area and KNTV; the four announcers move between radio and TV fairly frequently. 
Tim Roye was the radio play-by-play announcer for the Golden State Warriors, 
and was occasionally joined by Jim Barnett on non-televised games as Barnett 
serves as an analyst for TV broadcasts. On August 25, 2016, the Warriors 
announced they have ended their partnership with KNBR and signed with 95.7 
the Game (KGMZ). The partnership with KNBR lasted 40 years, including the 
last 32.[11] A vast array of announcers participate in San Jose SaberCats 
broadcasts, including Tim Roye, Bob Fitzgerald, Ray Woodson, Keena Turner, 
George Atkinson, and Troy Clardy. In 2005, KNBR became the official radio 
home of the San Francisco 49ers. All games are also heard on sister station 
KSAN "107.7 The Bone"; some AM broadcasts may be moved to KTCT due to conflicts 
with Giants games. 49ers games were broadcast by Joe Starkey and Gary Plummer 
for four seasons until Starkey's retirement following the 2008 season. 
In the 2009 season, former Giants baseball and world-class tennis announcer 
Ted Robinson took over for Starkey as the play-by-play announcer. KNBR 
and KTCT are charter affiliates of CBS Sports Radio, a joint venture between 
CBS Radio and Cumulus, which started on January 2, 2013.[12] NBC Sports 
Radio is also carried on KTCT. On KNBR 680, weekday programming consists 
of the following blocks, which are pre-empted or moved to KNBR 1050 (KTCT) 
when there are regularly-scheduled sports events. The morning shows include 
Murph and Mac (Brian Murphy and Paul McCaffrey)[13] and The Gary Radnich 
Show with Larry Krueger.[14] The afternoon shows include Fitz and Brooks 
(Bob Fitzgerald and Rod Brooks),[15] and The Tom Tolbert Show (co-hosted 
with Eric Byrnes or Ray Ratto).[16] Evening shows include SportsPhone 680 
(hosted by Ray Woodson).[17] Late night programming is usually filled in 
by hosts featured on CBS Sports Radio. Weekend programs include Commonwealth 
Club, Hooked on Golf, Protect Your Assets with David Hollander, Sports 
Saloon, At the Track, Gary Allen on Business, and assorted CBS Sports Radio 
programming.[18] During basketball season, announcer Tim Roye hosted a 
weekly show called Warriors Roundtable.[19] KNBR also broadcasts the 49ers-themed 
talk show 49ers Radio (simulcast on CSN Bay Area) with the team's radio 
play-by-play announcer Ted Robinson as the show's main host. On KNBR 1050 
(KTCT), weekday programming consists of the following blocks when not pre-empted 
by sports events. The morning shows have CBS Sports Radio with Barber, 
Tierney, Jacobsen; The John Feinstein Show, and The Jim Rome Show. The 
afternoon show is hosted by Ted Ramey and then The Tom Tolbert Show is 
simulcast with KNBR 680. The evening shows have Scott Ferrall's show Ferrall 
on the Bench,[20] followed by late-night programming from CBS Sports Radio 
and then NBC Sports Radio. Weekend programs include Mortgage Makeover and 
various CBS Sports and NBC Sports Radio programming. Commonwealth Club 
is presented early Sunday mornings.[21] Framing the various San Francisco 
Giants events, Marty Lurie fills in as a host of SportsPhone 680 Giants 
Warm-Up and Wrap-Up shows on KNBR every weekend during the baseball season.[22] 
Originating as part of the station's statutory requirement of public affairs 
programming, the station continues to air an hourlong interview show Sunday 
mornings at 5 am. During the 1990s, the program typically began and ended 
with the phrase This is Gimmy Park Li, your host. No program title was 
given. Interviews for this program often consisted of local individuals 
in volunteer, charitable, or minor governmental capacities. Due to its 
time slot, the program is the quintessential example of the Sunday morning 
public affairs ghetto. The program has never been promoted outside of its 
timeslot. Gimmy Park Li was the station's public affairs director. Her 
signature was her sign off: This is Gimmy Park Li, your host. Thank you 
for spending your time ... with us. 2 Audio for TV channel 6 (KBKF-LP/Ind/K-LOVE) 
