KNTV, channel 11 (branded on-air as NBC Bay Area), is an NBC owned-and-operated 
television station licensed to San Jose, California, USA and serving the 
San Francisco Bay Area region. The station is owned by the NBC Owned Television 
Stations subsidiary of NBCUniversal; KNTV's studios and main office are 
located on First Street in San Jose, which it shares with co-owned Telemundo 
station KSTS (channel 48) and CNBC's Silicon Valley bureau. The station's 
transmitter is located on San Bruno Mountain, just south of San Francisco. 
On cable, KNTV is available on Comcast cable systems in the Bay Area on 
channel 3.[2] In the few areas of the western United States where an NBC 
station is not receivable over-the-air, KNTV is available as part of All 
American Direct's standard definition distant network package for Dish 
Network subscribers. KNTV[3] signed on the air on September 12, 1955, originally 
operating as an independent station covering the entire north-central California 
coast from Monterey to San Francisco. It was the first television station 
in San Jose, and was originally operated by Standard Radio and Television 
Corporation, which was owned by Allen T. Gilliland.[4] The station's studios 
and offices were adjacent to the Gilliland-owned Sunlite Baking Company 
on Park Avenue in downtown San Jose, and its antenna was originally located 
on Loma Prieta Peak, some 60 miles (100 km) south of San Francisco. Channel 
11 often aired shows from CBS, DuMont and NBC that were respectively turned 
down by San Francisco's KPIX (channel 5) and KRON-TV (channel 4), as well 
as some ABC shows that also aired on KGO-TV (channel 7). The station was 
not viable as an independent, and the going got even more difficult when 
Oakland-based KTVU (channel 2) signed on in 1958. However, due to its antenna 
location, its signal could be received fairly well in the nearby areas 
of Monterey and Salinas. Taking advantage of this, KNTV sought and was 
granted the ABC affiliation for the Monterey Bay area in 1960,[5] on the 
condition that the station reduced its transmitter power so as not to overlap 
with network-owned KGO-TV's signal. Previously, all three networks had 
been shoehorned onto Salinas-based KSBW-TV (channel 8). KNTV therefore 
became one of the few stations located outside the market it served. Following 
the death of Allen T. Gilliland in 1960, ownership of KNTV was held by 
the executors of his estate, which included son Allen T. Gilliland Jr.[6] 
The younger Gilliland acquired majority ownership in August 1966[7][8] 
and later operated it as part of Gill Industries, which also controlled 
San Jose's cable television system. Even as an ABC affiliate, KNTV occasionally 
preempted a few ABC programs. KGO-TV, meanwhile, aired ABC's entire programming 
schedule, so this often gave San Jose and Silicon Valley Area residents 
a second choice for viewing preempted ABC programming. Gill Industries 
sold KNTV to Norfolk-based Landmark Communications in 1978.[9][10] Twelve 
years later, Landmark sold the station to a minority-owned firm, Granite 
Broadcasting.[11] In 1999, KGO-TV agreed to pay Granite a substantial fee 
to stop channel 11 from running ABC programming once the station's affiliation 
contract expired. ABC's corporate parent, the Walt Disney Company, saw 
the need to expand KGO-TV's exclusive advertising market share into San 
Jose for this reason, and it felt that KNTV was taking away from the share. 
That same year, the deYoung family, owners of KRON-TV and the San Francisco 
Chronicle, put all of its media properties up for sale. NBC, which had 
been in the midst of renewing its affiliation agreement with KRON-TV, jumped 
into the bidding as it had sought to purchase channel 4 – then the network's 
largest affiliate by market size – for several years due to its status 
as one of the network's highest-rated affiliates. NBC was thought to be 
the favorite to buy KRON-TV, but lost a bidding war for the station to 
Young Broadcasting in November 1999.[12] NBC responded by threatening to 
yank its programming from KRON unless Young agreed to run it under the 
conventions of an NBC-owned outlet, including disallowing the station from 
preempting NBC programs outside of breaking news coverage.[13][14] The 
network also made the unprecedented demand that Young pay NBC $10 million 
annually to carry the network's programming – a form of reverse compensation. 
Young refused, and announced that it would end KRON-TV's 52-year relationship 
with NBC once its affiliation contract ended in December 2001.[15] In February 
2000, Granite contacted NBC to negotiate an affiliation deal and offered 
to pay an average of $37 million annually (totaling roughly $362 million 
over 10 years) for the rights to broadcast NBC programs on KNTV. This agreement 
was groundbreaking and notable, as KNTV became the first major market affiliate 
to pay a network for programming, reversing a long-standing model where 
networks paid affiliates to carry their programming. NBC accepted the deal, 
which was due to take effect in January 2002.[15] In preparation for this 
switch, KNTV boosted its signal to reach the entire San Francisco Bay Area. 
7 million viewers now had access to KNTV, including 90% of the San Francisco 
Metropolitan area.[16] On July 3, 2000, KNTV terminated its ABC affiliation 
after 40 years with the network; it then temporarily carried programming 
from The WB Television Network in a part-time simulcast with then co-owned 
KBWB-TV (channel 20, now KOFY-TV), which was the full-time WB affiliate 
for the San Francisco Bay Area.[17] The move cost the Monterey Bay area 
an over-the-air ABC affiliate. In order to compensate for the loss, KGO-TV 
was then added on cable providers in that market, with certain syndicated 
programs carried by the station replaced due to syndication exclusivity 
rules. This did not pose as much of a problem as it may seem due to the 
very high penetration of cable and satellite in the Monterey Bay area. 
ABC would not return over-the-air to the area until KSBW began carrying 
ABC programming on the station's second digital subchannel on April 18, 
2011.[18] In September 2000, Nielsen Media Research reclassified KNTV to 
the designated market area (DMA) of San Jose-San Francisco-Oakland.[19] 
In March 2001, the FCC officially recognized KNTV as a San Jose-San Francisco-Oakland 
station.[20] For Granite Broadcasting, the deal with NBC was expensive; 
the company showed a net loss of $44 million for the first three quarters 
of 2001, more than double its losses during the same period the previous 
year. In an attempt to reduce debts, Granite started looking for a buyer 
for Detroit WB affiliate WDWB (now WMYD) in October 2001;[21] that station 
would not be sold until 2014.[22] On December 17, 2001, NBC announced another 
twist on the deal: it bought KNTV from cash-strapped Granite for $230 million,[23][24] 
effectively separating itself from KBWB (which remains under Granite ownership). 
The network already owned San Jose-based Telemundo station KSTS-TV, and 
wanted to create a duopoly in the Bay Area. KNTV officially joined NBC 
at 11:35 p.m. Pacific Time on December 31, 2001.[25] Jay Leno officially 
welcomed NBC's newest station in a ceremony on The Tonight Show, followed 
later that morning by a segment on the Today show in which Al Roker introduced 
KNTV's anchors. With NBC's move to channel 11, it became the only major 
network in the Bay Area to switch from one station to another (KNTV is 
the third Bay Area station to affiliate with NBC, as primary CBS affiliate 
KPIX-TV had carried the network as a secondary affiliation upon its sign-on 
in 1948 until KRON debuted the following year). NBC formally took control 
of KNTV in April 2002. After the affiliation switch to NBC, KNTV changed 
its branding to "NBC3" to reflect its position on cable channel 3 on nearly 
every cable provider in the Bay Area.[26] However, due to potential confusion 
with Sacramento's NBC affiliate, KCRA-TV (which broadcast on channel 3), 
NBC rebranded the station as "NBC11" in September 2002. Initially, KNTV 
newscasts were perceived to be infotainment due to the focus on crime and 
entertainment news, but by late 2002 the newscasts began focusing on Bay 
Area affairs.[27] The station added on a San Francisco bureau and studio 
in a 25,000 square foot facility on Battery Street in San Francisco.[27] 
During the 2004 Summer Olympics, the station heavily promoted channel 11 
through its "i11uminating" marketing campaign (with the number "11" used 
in place of the "L" letters). Even in its early years as the new NBC affiliate, 
KNTV aired NBC's soap opera lineup much later in the afternoon than most 
affiliates; KRON had done this for years as an NBC affiliate. Soon enough 
by August 2004, KNTV fell in line with the network's recommended time slot 
and now airs Days of Our Lives (NBC's remaining afternoon daytime drama) 
at the recommended 1 p.m. timeslot. In 2004, NBC converted a vacant office 
space in North San Jose into a state-of-the-art, all-digital facility for 
KNTV and KSTS. On December 13 of that year, KNTV moved from its original 
studios on Park Avenue to the new location. As part of a corporate-wide 
environmental initiative (known today as "Green is Universal"), the facility 
is entirely powered by wind energy.[28] Following its acquisition by NBC, 
KNTV continued to broadcast from its longtime transmitter location on Loma 
Prieta Peak (located between San Jose and Santa Cruz), but did not increase 
its power to improve signal coverage in San Francisco and Oakland; as a 
result, the signal could not be seen over the air in much of the Bay Area 
north of San Mateo County, including much of San Francisco itself.[29][30] 
The affiliation and market switches also resulted in many cable providers 
in the Monterey Bay area either dropping KNTV entirely or blocking its 
NBC programming under syndication exclusivity guidelines; even so, the 
signal still overlapped with KSBW. That all changed on September 12, 2005, 
when KNTV was able to finally move its transmitter to San Bruno Mountain, 
giving it a signal comparable to the Bay Area's other major stations. The 
move came after years of objection from KRON's owner Young Broadcasting. 
KRON made numerous filings with the FCC alleging that thousands of San 
Jose residents would lose over-the-air coverage of KNTV if it moved closer 
to San Francisco.[31] Some San Francisco residents, especially in the Sunset 
and Richmond districts of the city, still found it difficult to receive 
an adequate over-the-air signal because they are shielded by San Bruno 
Mountain. Most of the other Bay Area stations operate from the Sutro Tower, 
which has a better overall view of San Francisco proper, although at the 
expense of those in northern San Mateo County, where San Bruno Mountain 
acts as a shield. However, most of the Bay Area is covered with a strong 
signal from all of the stations. The year closed, however, with a devastating 
fire at the retired transmitting facility on Loma Prieta Peak. The fire 
was quickly extinguished on the afternoon of December 31; however, the 
fire reignited after firefighters had left the scene, and destroyed the 
former primary analog and digital transmitters, which had only been retired 
a few months earlier and were in backup status, as well as a variety of 
other communications equipment. In January 2007, CNBC moved its Silicon 
Valley bureau – formerly located at the Wall Street Journal's bureau in 
Palo Alto – into KNTV/KSTS's San Jose studios. Former KNTV and KRON reporter 
Jim Goldman is the bureau chief, and the main CNBC reporter covering business 
stories concerning the Silicon Valley; the set used for daily broadcasts 
on CNBC occupies part of KNTV's newsroom. In 2009, KNTV changed its on-air 
branding from "NBC11" to "NBC Bay Area"; additionally the station's website 
was relaunched on October 16 of that year, as part of a larger revamp of 
the websites of NBC's entire O&O station group.[32] In April 2010, KNTV 
entered into an arrangement with former NBC affiliate KRON-TV to broadcast 
network programs during instances in which KNTV has to preempt them for 
special programming such as telecasts of San Francisco Giants games. Incidentally, 
KRON's owner, Young Broadcasting discussed entering KRON into a shared 
services agreement with KNTV's owner NBCUniversal,[33] which ultimately 
never materialized. KRON's default carriage of preempted NBC shows ended 
in 2012, when KICU-TV (then owned by Cox Enterprises as a sister station 
to KTVU) reassumed those duties until the sale of both KICU and KTVU to 
Fox Television Stations in 2014; pre-emptions are now handled in-house 
with a move of NBC programming to KNTV's COZI TV subchannel. On April 13, 
2010, KNTV became the subject of Stephen Colbert's program, The Colbert 
Report, where Colbert played a clip read by weekend anchor Diane Dwyer 
on the issue of "unpaid internships". Colbert would eventually use that 
given clip to set the stage for laughs based on unpaid interns.[34] The 
station's digital channel is multiplexed: KNTV also has a Mobile DTV feed 
of subchannel 11.1, broadcasting at 1.83 Mbit/s.[35][36] On December 20, 
2012, KNTV began broadcasting Cozi TV, a digital subchannel network that 
airs a mix of movies, first-run lifestyle programming, and classic television 
series from the 1950s through the 1980s. The service is a retooling of 
NBC Nonstop (which operated a regional service called NBC California Nonstop 
that debuted in January 2011 on KNTV, and sister stations KNBC/Los Angeles 
and KNSD/San Diego), which carried news and lifestyle-oriented programs, 
some of which have been carried over to Cozi. KNTV shut down its analog 
signal, over VHF channel 11, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally 
mandated transition from analog to digital television.[37] The station's 
digital signal remained on its pre-transition VHF channel 12,[38] using 
PSIP to display KNTV's virtual channel as 11 on digital television receivers. 
KNTV is now the largest NBC affiliate on the VHF band – and the only NBC 
O&O to broadcast on VHF. Syndicated programming on KNTV currently includes 
Access Hollywood (and it's live counterpart),[39][40] Steve Harvey, Extra, 
and The Ellen DeGeneres Show among others.[41] The earlier two are distributed 
by NBCUniversal Television Distribution. Since being purchased by NBCUniversal, 
KNTV has produced its own programs for both local broadcast and for distribution 
nationally on the NBC television network and in syndication. Two of KNTV's 
national and regional programs that are distributed to NBC stations are 
Tech Now! (a weekly show that debuted on September 19, 1998 under Granite 
Broadcasting ownership that covers the latest in technology and gadgets, 
and is hosted by Scott Budman and produced by Scott McGrew[42] and was 
at one time popular in Ghana[43]) and In Wine Country (a weekly series 
focusing on the Napa Valley wine community). KNTV is one of five NBC O&O 
stations to distribute programs to other stations or to the network itself 
as of 2016, along with Los Angeles's KNBC, New York City's WNBC, Miami's 
WTVJ and Hartford's WVIT. The station is also the local broadcaster of 
the San Jose Holiday Parade each December. On October 12, 2010, KNTV hosted 
its first debate since becoming owned by NBCUniversal. Its 5, 6, and 11 
p.m. newscast was broadcast live at San Rafael's Dominican University of 
California,[44][45] though the latter newscast were used as a wrap-up of 
the debate. The debate between California gubernatorial candidates Meg 
Whitman and Jerry Brown was moderated by NBC News special correspondent 
Tom Brokaw. This program was simulcast on several other NBC stations within 
California including fellow NBC O&Os KNBC and KNSD, as well as on Hearst 
Television-owned KCRA-TV and KSBW.[46][47][48] On November 1, 2007, KNTV 
entered into a three-year broadcast contract with the San Francisco Giants 
through 2010, replacing the team's longtime broadcaster KTVU (which had 
carried Giants games since 1961, three years after the team moved to the 
Bay Area and KTVU first began broadcasting); the team's first game broadcast 
on KNTV aired on April 1, 2008. KNTV broadcasts 20 to 40 Giants baseball 
games a year, which are produced by sister network Comcast SportsNet Bay 
Area. In addition, KNTV also airs Giants Clubhouse each weekend during 
the MLB season. All of the Giants broadcasts are carried in high definition. 
The station has preempted Giants telecasts during the Summer Olympics due 
to NBC currently holding the television rights to the Olympics. The Giants' 
contract with KNTV concluded at the end of the 2010 season, however, the 
broadcast rights were renewed prior to the 2011 season.[49] KNTV also occasionally 
runs special editions of its newscasts or Sports Sunday, to cover San Francisco 
49ers and/or Oakland Raiders NFL games that are broadcast as part of NBC 
Sunday Night Football. On January 23, 2014, NBCUniversal, Comcast, and 
the San Francisco 49ers announced a 10-year partnership that will include 
new additions to the future Levi's Stadium. The partnership spans multiple 
business units that will include KNTV, ComcastSportsNet Bay Area, its VoiceEdge, 
ethernet, and Xfinity services, as well as building a new studio only four 
miles from where KNTV is based. It also will produce 400 hours of programming 
on KNTV and CSN Bay Area.[50] KNTV presently broadcasts 32½ hours of locally 
produced newscasts each week (with 5½ hours on weekdays and 3½ hours each 
on Saturdays and Sundays). The station also produces a local sports highlight 
and discussion program on Sunday nights called Sports Sunday, which is 
hosted by sports reporter Laurence Scott – who is usually joined by guest 
co-hosts in-studio; a secondary program, Xfinity Sports Sunday Primetime, 
is co-hosted by Jerry Rice and Nnamdi Asomugha during the fall, when NBC 
provides football coverage in primetime. In September 1998, KNTV began 
producing an hour-long 10 p.m. newscast for then-WB affiliate KBWB-TV (now 
KOFY-TV).[51] Upon becoming a WB affiliate in July 2000, KNTV increased 
its local news programming; it retained all of its existing newscasts and 
added two hours to its weekday morning newscast, an hour-long news and 
technology-focused program at noon, an additional half-hour to its 6 p.m. 
newscast and a simulcast of the KBWB 10 p.m. newscast.[17][52] The 7–9 
a.m., 6:30 and 10 p.m. newscasts were dropped once KNTV switched to NBC 
in January 2002. For the first half of 2009, the recession forced NBC to 
cut costs at KNTV. Several rounds of layoffs occurred, forcing KNTV to 
shed some well-known personalities, including chief weather anchor John 
Farley, who left the station in March 2009;[53] after Farley's departure, 
weekend weather segments originated from the studios of Los Angeles sister 
station KNBC. The station also closed news bureaus in Sacramento and Oakland. 
KNTV's news helicopter (which was purchased in 2006) was also suspended 
from use on April 30, 2009.[54] On May 22, 2009, former NBC Weather Plus 
meteorologist Jeff Ranieri was named KNTV's new chief meteorologist.[55] 
On June 29, 2009, layoffs continued with the firings of reporters Noelle 
Walker, Ethan Harp, Christien Kafton and San Jose reporter Daniel Garza, 
along with several behind-the-scenes jobs. In December 2010, sports director 
Raj Mathai transitioned to weeknight news anchor, though he continued to 
host Sports Sunday for a short time after the change.[56] On December 21, 
2010, KNTV's newscasts moved to a temporary set while the main news set 
underwent renovations, traffic and sports reports were also done in the 
newsroom. Meteorologist Rob Mayeda also announced his move to the weekend 
evening newscast. The station added additional personnel including former 
KOB reporter Marla Tellez,[57] meteorologist Nick O'Kelly, and freelance 
sports anchors Justin Allen[58] and Christine Nubla (all of whom, except 
for Tellez, previously worked for KNTV). On April 20, 2011, KNTV announced 
that Comcast SportsNet Bay Area would begin producing sports segments for 
the station starting on June 13, 2011,[59][60] to be produced from a dedicated 
set at the cable channel's studios.[61][62] This made KNTV the first NBC-owned 
station to have its sports segments produced by the regional sports network.[63][64] 
On August 10, 2011, Janelle Wang replaced Jessica Aguirre as weeknight 
anchor of the 5 p.m. newscast. Wang and Raj Mathai are the only Asian American 
weekday anchor team outside of Hawaii.[65] On July 16, 2016, KNTV became 
the eighth NBC owned station and the first station in the West Coast to 
begin using "Look N" graphics following seven NBC-owned stations in the 
East Coast began using the new graphics in Summer of 2016, prior to this, 
KNTV along with sister stations KNBC and KNSD revamped their websites on 
July 1, 2016. As of August 2016, KNTV is the only NBC-owned station and 
one of the two stations in the San Francisco Bay Area don't have its 4:00 
p.m. newscasts since the NBC Affiliation taken over from KRON-TV in 2002; 
some 4 owned stations already haved its 4:00 p.m. newscasts, the other 
NBC-owned stations in New York, Miami and Hartford began its 4:00 p.m. 
newscasts in June and the other 2 stations in Los Angeles and Chicago revived 
