A knuckleball or knuckler is a baseball pitch thrown so as to minimize 
the spin of the ball in flight, causing an erratic, unpredictable motion. 
The air flow over a seam of the ball causes the ball to transition from 
laminar to turbulent flow. This transition adds a deflecting force on the 
side of the baseball. This makes the pitch difficult for batters to hit, 
but also difficult for pitchers to control and catchers to catch; umpires 
are challenged as well, as the ball's irregular motion through the air 
makes it harder to call balls and strikes.[1] The origins of the knuckleball 
are unclear. Toad Ramsey of the Louisville Colonels in the old American 
Association—his pitch likely resembled the knuckle curve—and Eddie Cicotte 
of the major leagues' Chicago White Sox, who in 1908, was nicknamed "Knuckles", 
are two possible creators of the pitch.[2] Other accounts attribute the 
pitch's creation to Charles H. Druery, a pitcher for the Blue Ridge League.[3] 
In 1917, Druery taught the pitch to Eddie Rommel who became successful 
with the knuckleball for the Philadelphia Athletics.[4] As used by Cicotte, 
the knuckleball was originally thrown by holding the ball with the knuckles, 
hence the name of the pitch. Ed Summers, a Pittsburgh teammate of Cicotte 
who adopted the pitch and helped develop it, modified this by holding the 
ball with his fingertips and using the thumb for balance. This grip can 
also include digging the fingernails into the surface of the ball. The 
fingertip grip is more commonly used today by knuckleball pitchers, like 
retired Boston Red Sox pitcher Tim Wakefield, who had a knuckleball with 
a lot of movement. There are other prominent knuckleball pitchers like 
Hall of Famer Phil Niekro, who had a very effective knuckler and knuckle 
curve, and current Toronto Blue Jays pitcher R.A. Dickey. However, young 
pitchers with smaller hands tend to throw the knuckleball with their knuckles. 
Sometimes young players will throw the knuckleball with their knuckles 
flat against the ball, giving it less spin but also making it difficult 
to throw any significant distance. Regardless of how the ball is gripped, 
the purpose of the knuckleball is to have the least amount of rotational 
spin as possible. Created by the act of throwing a ball, the ball's trajectory 
is significantly affected by variations in airflow caused by differences 
between the smooth surface of the ball and the stitching of its seams. 
The asymmetric drag that results tends to deflect the trajectory toward 
the side with the stitches. Over the distance from the pitcher's mound 
to home plate, the effect of these forces is that the knuckleball can "flutter," 
"dance," "jiggle," or curve in two different directions during its flight. 
A pitch thrown completely without spin is less desirable, however, than 
one with only a very slight spin (so that the ball completes between one-quarter 
and one-half a rotation on its way from the pitcher to the batter). This 
will cause the position of the stitches to change as the ball travels, 
which changes the drag that gives the ball its motion, thus making its 
flight even more erratic. Even a ball thrown without rotation will "flutter", 
due to the "apparent wind" it feels as its trajectory changes throughout 
its flight path.[5] Hitting a knuckleball is different enough from other 
aspects of baseball that players specifically prepare for the pitch during 
batting practice before games they expect it in.[6] According to physicist 
Robert Adair, due to the physiological limitation of human reaction time, 
a breaking knuckleball may be impossible to hit except by luck.[2] If a 
knuckleball does not change direction in mid-flight, however, then it is 
easy to hit due to its lack of speed. (A common phrase for hitting a knuckleball 
is "if it's low, let it go; if it's high, let it fly"; meaning that a batter 
should attempt to hit a knuckleball only if it crosses the plate high in 
the strike zone.) Since it typically only travels 60 to 70 miles per hour 
(97 to 113 km/h),[7] far slower than the average major league fastball 
85 to 95 miles per hour (137 to 153 km/h), it can be hit very hard if there 
is no movement. One 2007 study offered evidence for this conclusion.[8] 
To reduce the chances of having the knuckleball get hit for a home run, 
some pitchers will impart a slight topspin so that if no force causes the 
ball to dance, it will move downward in flight. Another drawback is that 
runners on base can usually advance more easily than if a conventional 
pitcher is on the mound. This is due to both the knuckleball's low average 
speed and its erratic movement, which force the catcher to keep focusing 
on the ball even after the runners start stealing their next bases. A few 
knuckleball pitchers, such as Hoyt Wilhelm and Tim Wakefield, had catchers 
specifically assigned to them to catch their knuckleballs. A paper presented 
at the 2012 Conference of the International Sports Engineering Association 
argues, based on PITCHf/x data, that knuckleballs do not make large and 
abrupt changes in their trajectories on the way to home plate—or at least, 
no more abrupt than a normal pitch. It speculates that the appearance of 
abrupt shifting may be due to the unpredictability of the changes in direction.[9] 
The knuckleball is also employed by the Indian cricket fast bowler Zaheer 
Khan as his slower delivery. The physics of the operation are largely the 
same. However, the seam on a cricket ball is equatorial, and thus the extent 
of erratic movement is reduced due to the symmetry (at least in the conventional 
release position where the planes of the ball's trajectory and the seam 
are nearly co-planar). In addition, the lack of backspin does shorten the 
length of the delivery, and also tends to make the ball skid off the pitch—faster 
than it would come off a normal delivery.[10] Since it developed during 
a period when the spitball was legal and commonly used, and was similarly 
surprising in its motion, the knuckleball was sometimes called the "dry 
spitter". Cicotte was widely reported to throw both the knuckleball and 
a variant on the spitball known as a "shine ball" (because he would "shine" 
one side of a dirty ball by rubbing it on his uniform). However, Cicotte 
called the shine ball "a pure freak of the imagination", claiming that 
he did this to disconcert hitters and that the pitch was still a knuckleball. 
Other names for the knuckleball have generally alluded to its motion and 
slower speed. These include the flutterball, the floater, the dancer, the 
butterfly ball, the ghostball, and the bug. The knuckle curve has a somewhat 
similar name because of the grip used to throw it (also with the knuckles 
or fingernails), but it is generally thrown harder and with spin. The resulting 
motion of the pitch more closely resembles a curveball, which explains 
the combination name. Toad Ramsey, a pitcher from 1885 to 1890, is credited 
in some later sources with being the first knuckleballer, apparently based 
primarily on accounts of how he gripped the ball; however, based on more 
contemporary descriptions of his pitch as an "immense drop ball", it may 
be that his pitch was a form of knuckle curve. Two later pitchers, Jesse 
Haines and Freddie Fitzsimmons, were sometimes characterized as knuckleball 
pitchers even by their contemporaries, but in their cases this again refers 
to a harder-thrown, curving pitch that would probably not be called a knuckleball 
today. Historically, the term "knuckle curve" had a usage that was different 
from what it has in the game today. Many current pitchers throw a curveball 
using a grip with the index finger touching the ball with the knuckle or 
the fingertip (also called a spike curve). This modern pitch type is unrelated 
to the knuckleball. As of 2004[update], only about 70 Major League Baseball 
pitchers have regularly used the knuckleball during their careers, and 
its use has become more rare over time. This can be attributed to a variety 
of factors. The first is selection bias in scouting. Because the speed 
of any prospect's pitch is one of the quickest and easiest metrics in judging 
the skill of the prospect, the knuckleball, which is thrown slower than 
any other pitch, gets overlooked. Tim Wakefield argues that "The problem 
is that [baseball] is so radar gun-oriented." Former knuckleballer and 
pitching coach Charlie Hough says that the increased rarity of the knuckleball 
is due to scouts increasingly looking only for the best arm.[11] This effect 
is increasing over time as the modern game continues to emphasize power 
in pitching and average pitch speed increases.[12] Another factor contributing 
to the rarity of the knuckleball is the difficulty of throwing the pitch. 
R.A. Dickey estimates that it takes at least a year to grasp the fundamentals 
of the knuckleball. The knuckleball is radically different than any other 
pitch in a pitcher's arsenal, and less predictable, thus difficult to control. 
It is for this reason that the knuckleball is widely regarded as unreliable, 
and knuckleball pitchers are prone to extended slumps, such as when Tim 
Wakefield was released from the Pirates in a mid-career slump during spring 
training in 1995.[11] Another reason for the difficulty of the knuckleball 
is due to the network effect. Because there are so few knuckleball pitchers, 
the resources for learning and improving the knuckleball are few compared 
to more common pitches. Pitching coaches often struggle with knuckleball 
pitchers due to a lack of experience with the pitch. "I think the hardest 
thing for me is just the alone-ness that you feel sometimes because nobody 
else really does it", said Wakefield.[11] Coaches have also been seen as 
a barrier to succeeding with the knuckleball. Jim Bouton said, "coaches 
don't respect it. You can pitch seven good innings with a knuckleball, 
and as soon as you walk a guy they go, 'See, there's that damn knuckleball.'" 
R.A. Dickey argues that, "for most managers, it takes a special manager 
to be able to really trust it – the bad and the good of it. Coaches are 
quick to banish the pitch after one bad outing. This was common due to 
the amount of practice one must put into the pitch. And traditionally, 
if you look at Tim Wakefield, Joe and Phil Niekro, Tom Candiotti, Wilbur 
Wood, Hoyt Wilhelm and all the guys that threw it, through their success 
they had guys who really believed in what it could do long-term and committed 
to giving them the ball every fifth day to do it."[11] In 1991, Hall of 
Fame catcher Rick Ferrell was quoted as saying, "I think the knuckleball 
is fading out." Ferrell knows knuckleballs; he had the task of being the 
Washington Senators' catcher in 1944 and '45, when the Senators had four 
knuckleball pitchers in their starting rotation. Furthermore, other factors, 
such as a dearth of knuckleball teachers and the dramatic increase in the 
running game (base stealing is often easier against knuckleball pitchers), 
may be contributing to its demise. Says Bob Humphrey, a former major-league 
knuckleball pitcher: "you just don't have time to mess with it." A fast-track 
scheme is developing, eliminating the knuckleballer pitcher's chief ally: 
time. Tom Candiotti said: "to get signed, you have to be impressive on 
the radar guns." The knuckleball takes time to master and is not an attractive 
pitch on the radar guns, both of which may be contributing to its demise.[13][14] 
Perhaps as a result, knuckleball pitchers often view themselves as members 
of an exclusive club, with its own uniform number (49, first worn by Wilhelm) 
and leader (Phil Niekro, whom The New Yorker in 2004 called "the undisputed 
Grand Poobah" of the group after Wilhelm's death).[2] Because they cannot 
discuss pitching with non knuckleball-using teammates, they often share 
tips and insights even if on competing teams, and believe that they have 
a responsibility to help younger players develop the pitch.[15] When, in 
2012, R. A. Dickey became the first Cy Young Award-winning knuckleball 
pitcher, he called the award "a victory for … the knuckleball fraternity", 
and of the dozens of phone calls he received after the announcement, Niekro's 
was the only one he answered.[16] When originally developed, the knuckleball 
was used by a number of pitchers as simply one pitch in their repertoire, 
usually as part of changing speeds from their fastball. It is almost never 
used in a mixed repertoire today, however, and some believe that to throw 
the knuckleball effectively with some semblance of control over the pitch, 
one must throw it more or less exclusively.[17] At the same time, pitchers 
rarely focus on the knuckleball if they have reasonable skill with more 
standard pitches. Unlike conventional pitches, which perform fast results 
without much exertion, a knuckleball pitcher must train his body and muscle 
memory to be able to execute a 65 mph pitch with under one rotation.[18] 
The knuckleball does provide some advantages to its practitioners. It does 
not need to be thrown hard (in fact, throwing too hard may diminish its 
effectiveness), and is therefore less taxing on the arm. This means knuckleball 
pitchers can throw more innings than other pitchers, and, requiring less 
time to recover after pitching, can pitch more frequently. The lower physical 
strain also fosters longer careers. Some knuckleballers have continued 
to pitch professionally well into their forties; examples include Tim Wakefield, 
Hoyt Wilhelm, Charlie Hough, Tom Candiotti, and the brothers Phil Niekro 
and Joe Niekro.[2] Pitchers like Bouton have found success as knuckleballers 
after their ability to throw hard declined. Wilhelm, Phil Niekro, and Jesse 
Haines, three pitchers who primarily relied on the knuckleball, have been 
inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame. Additionally, Ted Lyons, another 
member of the Hall of Fame, relied heavily on the knuckleball after injuring 
his arm in 1931.[19] Niekro was given the nickname "Knucksie" during his 
career. Other prominent knuckleball pitchers have included [Josh Turley] 
Joe Niekro (Phil's brother), Charlie Hough, Dave Jolly, Ben Flowers, Wilbur 
Wood, Barney Schultz, Tom Candiotti, Bob Purkey, Steve Sparks, Eddie Rommel, 
Tim Wakefield, Steven Wright, and Dickey. During the 1945 season, with 
talent depleted by call-ups to fight in World War II, the Washington Senators 
had a pitching rotation which included four knuckleball pitchers (Dutch 
Leonard, Johnny Niggeling, Mickey "Itsy Bitsy" Haefner and Roger Wolff) 
who combined for 60 complete games and 60 wins, carrying the Senators to 
second place. Dickey of the Toronto Blue Jays[20] is one of only a few 
knuckleballers in the big leagues, joined by Steven Wright of the Boston 
Red Sox. Dickey routinely throws an unusually fast knuckleball at 80 mph 
(130 km/h). Minor leaguers Charlie Zink of the Lancaster Barnstormers, 
Joseph Zeller of the Peoria Chiefs, and Charlie Haeger of the Albuquerque 
Isotopes also throw the knuckleball. Dickey himself has taken an active 
involvement in helping younger knuckleballers coming through, and in 2012, 
he started providing personal coaching lessons to 18-year-old knuckleball 
pitcher Stephen Orso.[21] [22] In November 2008, it was announced that 
16-year-old knuckleballer Eri Yoshida was drafted as the first woman ever 
to play in Japanese professional baseball for the Kobe 9 Cruise of the 
Kansai Independent Baseball League. On March 2, 2010, she trained with 
Tim Wakefield at the Boston Red Sox minor-league training facility.[23] 
And on April 8, 2010, she signed with the Chico Outlaws, debuting on May 
29, 2010.[24] Former Detroit Tigers reliever Eddie Bonine also throws a 
knuckleball, though he does so infrequently as compared to pitchers who 
use it as a primary pitch. Lance Niekro, son of Joe Niekro, attempted to 
convert from a position player to a knuckleball pitcher. He started the 
2009 season with the Gulf Coast League Braves, but is currently retired 
and coaching college baseball at Florida Southern. As with hitters, the 
unpredictable motion of the knuckleball makes it one of the most difficult 
pitches for catchers to handle, and they tend to be charged with a significantly 
higher number of passed balls. Former catcher Bob Uecker, who caught for 
Phil Niekro said, "The way to catch a knuckleball is to wait until it stops 
rolling and pick it up."[1] Bouton said, "Catchers hate it. Nobody likes 
to warm up with you." According to Adair, the 150 ms minimum human reaction 
time may be too slow to adjust to a knuckleball's changing direction.[2] 
A team will sometimes employ a catcher solely for games started by a knuckleballer.[25] 
The "knuckleball catcher" is equipped with an oversized knuckleball catcher's 
mitt,[26] similar to a first baseman's glove; Doug Mirabelli, formerly 
of the Red Sox, used a softball catcher's mitt. The Boston Red Sox did 
this fairly systematically in their 2004 world championship season, with 
Mirabelli regularly catching in place of Jason Varitek when Tim Wakefield 
was pitching. This use of a "specialist" catcher continued into the 2008 
season following the signing of Kevin Cash, and 2009 saw George Kottaras 
fulfill this role. On August 26, the first time Victor Martinez caught 
Wakefield, he used a first baseman's glove, instead of a regular catcher's 
mitt.[27] For a catcher, a key disadvantage to using a first baseman's 
glove instead of a regular catcher's mitt is that first baseman's gloves 
are not designed for easy extraction of a ball from the glove, a trait 
which makes it somewhat more difficult for a catcher to prevent baserunners 
from stealing bases. On occasion, teams have traded knuckleball pitchers 
and their catchers in the same transaction. For example, Josh Thole and 
Mike Nickeas went with Dickey when the pitcher was traded to the Toronto 
Blue Jays in late 2012, and the team later signed Henry Blanco, who also 
caught for Dickey.[25] The record for passed balls in an inning was first 
set by Ray Katt of the New York Giants in 1954, catching Hoyt Wilhelm.[28] 
It was tied by Geno Petralli of the Texas Rangers in 1987 while trying 
to catch knuckleball pitcher Charlie Hough, and tied again in 2013 when 
Ryan Lavarnway of the Boston Red Sox passed four balls in the first inning, 
catching knuckleballer Steven Wright in Wright's first major league start.[28] 
Varitek holds the postseason record with three passed balls in the 13th 
inning of Game 5 of the 2004 American League Championship Series while 
catching Wakefield.[29] In the 2013 season, J. P. Arencibia (then catching 
for the Toronto Blue Jays) set a franchise record by allowing 4 passed 
balls in the season opening game (a 4–2 loss) while catching for knuckleballer 
R.A. Dickey. Coincidentally, he never caught for Dickey again. Notes Bibliography 
