In Major League history, the term knuckle curve or knuckle curveball has 
been used to describe three entirely different pitches. The first, more 
common pitch called the knuckle curve is really a standard curveball, thrown 
with one or more of the index or mean fingers bent. According to practitioners, 
this gives them a better grip on the ball and allows for tighter spin and 
greater movement. In all other respects, this knuckle curve is identical 
to the standard curveball. This version of the knuckle curve is currently 
used by Major League pitchers Dan Haren, J. P. Howell, Phil Hughes, and 
Brad Peacock. Mike Mussina was well known for his incorporation of the 
pitch into his repertoire. Justin Verlander formerly threw a knuckle curve 
but was forced to abandon the pitch due to problems with blisters.[1] This 
knuckle curve is usually called the spike curve by MLB players and coaches 
because the pitch is nothing like a knuckleball. The second type of knuckle 
curve is a breaking ball that is thrown with a grip similar to the knuckleball. 
Unlike a knuckleball, which spins very little, a knuckle curve spins like 
a normal curveball because the pitcher's index and middle fingers push 
the top of the ball into a downward curve at the moment of release. Since 
only two fingers produce the spin, however, a knuckle curve does not spin 
as fast as a curveball, meaning the break is less sharp, and less predictable. 
Because this knuckle curve can be thrown with the same general motion as 
a fastball, it is more deceptive than a normal curveball. This kind of 
knuckle curve is rare—it is easier to control than a standard knuckleball, 
but still difficult to master. The most famous practitioners of this type 
of knuckle curve are Burt 'Happy' Hooton, who pitched for the Chicago Cubs 
and the Los Angeles Dodgers from the mid-1970s to mid-1980s, and former 
reliever Jason Isringhausen. The third type of knuckle curve was thrown 
by Dave Stenhouse in the 1960s. Stenhouse's knuckle curve was thrown like 
a fastball but with a knuckleball grip. Stenhouse discovered that this 
pitch had excellent movement, and when he came to the majors, he utilized 
it as a breaking pitch. This pitch may have been the same as the knuckleball 
thrown by Jesse Haines and Freddie Fitzsimmons. The pitch would be perfected 
by Chicago White Sox legend Hoyt Wilhelm during the later stages of his 
