Kobe (神戸市, Kōbe-shi?, Japanese pronunciation: [koːꜜbe]) is the sixth-largest 
city in Japan and is the capital city of Hyōgo Prefecture. It is located 
on the southern side of the main island of Honshū, on the north shore of 
Osaka Bay and about 30 km (19 mi) west of Osaka. With a population around 
1.5 million, the city is part of the Keihanshin metropolitan area along 
with Osaka and Kyoto. The earliest written records regarding the region 
come from the Nihon Shoki, which describes the founding of the Ikuta Shrine 
by Empress Jingū in AD 201.[2][3] For most of its history, the area was 
never a single political entity, even during the Tokugawa Period, when 
the port was controlled directly by the Tokugawa Shogunate. Kobe did not 
exist in its current form until its founding in 1889. Its name comes from 
"kanbe" (神戸?), an archaic title for supporters of the city's Ikuta Shrine.[4][5] 
Kobe became one of Japan's 17 designated cities in 1956. Kobe was one of 
the cities to open for trade with the West following the 1853 end of the 
policy of seclusion and has since been known as a cosmopolitan port city. 
While the 1995 Great Hanshin earthquake diminished much of Kobe's prominence 
as a port city, it remains Japan's fourth busiest container port.[6] Companies 
headquartered in Kobe include ASICS, Kawasaki Heavy Industries, and Kobe 
Steel, as well as over 100 international corporations with Asian or Japanese 
headquarters in the city such as Eli Lilly and Company, Procter & Gamble, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, and Nestlé.[7][8] The city is the point of origin 
and namesake of Kobe beef, as well as the site of one of Japan's most famous 
hot spring resorts, Arima Onsen. Media related to History of Kobe at Wikimedia 
Commons Tools found in western Kobe demonstrate the area was populated 
at least from the Jōmon period.[9] The natural geography of the area, particularly 
of Wada Cape in Hyōgo-ku, led to the development of a port, which would 
remain the economic center of the city.[10] Some of the earliest written 
documents mentioning the region include the Nihon Shoki, which describes 
the founding of the Ikuta Shrine by Empress Jingū in AD 201.[2] During 
the Nara and Heian periods, the port was known by the name Ōwada Anchorage 
(Ōwada-no-tomari) and was one of the ports from which imperial embassies 
to China were dispatched.[3][9] The city was briefly the capital of Japan 
in 1180, when Taira no Kiyomori moved his grandson Emperor Antoku to Fukuhara 
in present-day Hyōgo-ku.[9] The Emperor returned to Kyoto after about five 
months.[3] Shortly thereafter in 1184, the Taira fortress in Hyōgo-ku and 
the nearby Ikuta Shrine became the sites of the Genpei War battle of Ichi-no-Tani 
between the Taira and Minamoto clans. The Minamoto prevailed, pushing the 
Taira further. As the port grew during the Kamakura period, it became an 
important hub for trade with China and other countries. In the 13th century, 
the city came to be known by the name Hyōgo Port (兵庫津, Hyōgo-tsu?).[10] 
During this time, Hyōgo Port, along with northern Osaka, composed the province 
of Settsu (most of today's Kobe belonged to Settsu except Nishi Ward and 
Tarumi Ward, which belonged to Harima). Later, during the Edo period, the 
eastern parts of present-day Kobe came under the jurisdiction of the Amagasaki 
Domain and the western parts under that of the Akashi Domain, while the 
center was controlled directly by the Tokugawa shogunate.[11][12] It was 
not until the abolition of the han system in 1871 and the establishment 
of the current prefecture system that the area became politically distinct. 
Hyōgo Port was opened to foreign trade by the government of the Bakufu 
at the same time as Osaka on January 1, 1868, just before the advent of 
the Boshin War and the Meiji Restoration.[13] The region has since been 
identified with the West and many foreign residences from the period remain 
in Kobe's Kitano area. Hyōgo Port in the 19th century[14] The Bund, built 
in the 1860s - 1930s Kitano area, built in the 1880s - 1910s Former Hyogo 
prefectural office, built in 1902 Kobe, as it is known today, was founded 
on April 1, 1889, and was designated on September 1, 1956 by government 
ordinance. The history of the city is closely tied to that of the Ikuta 
Shrine, and the name "Kobe" derives from "kamube" (神戸, kamube?) (later 
kanbe), an archaic name for those who supported the shrine.[4][5] During 
World War II, Kobe was bombed in the Doolittle Raid on April 18, 1942, 
along with Tokyo and a few other cities. Eventually, it was bombed again 
with incendiary bombs by B-29 bombers on March 17, 1945, causing the death 
of 8,841 residents and destroying 21% of Kobe's urban area. This incident 
inspired the well-known Studio Ghibli film Grave of the Fireflies and the 
book by Akiyuki Nosaka on which the film was based. Following continuous 
pressure from citizens, on March 18, 1975, the Kobe City Council passed 
an ordinance banning vessels carrying nuclear weapons from Kobe Port. This 
effectively prevented any U.S. warships from entering the port, policy 
being not to disclose whether any warship is carrying nuclear weapons. 
This nonproliferation policy has been termed the "Kobe formula".[15][16] 
On January 17, 1995, a magnitude 6.9 earthquake occurred at 5:46 am JST 
near the city. About 6,434 people in the city were killed, 212,443 were 
made homeless, and large parts of the port facilities and other parts of 
the city were destroyed.[17][18] The earthquake destroyed portions of the 
Hanshin Expressway, an elevated freeway that dramatically toppled over. 
In Japan, the earthquake is known as the Great Hanshin earthquake (or the 
Hanshin-Awaji earthquake). To commemorate Kobe's recovery from the 1995 
quake, the city holds an event every December called the Luminarie, where 
the city center is decorated with illuminated metal archways. The Port 
of Kobe was Japan's busiest port and one of Asia's top ports until the 
Great Hanshin earthquake.[19] Kobe has since dropped to fourth in Japan 
and 49th-busiest container port worldwide (as of 2012[update]). Wedged 
between the coast and the mountains, the city of Kobe is long and narrow. 
To the east is the city of Ashiya, while the city of Akashi lies to its 
west. Other adjacent cities include Takarazuka and Nishinomiya to the east 
and Sanda and Miki to the north. The landmark of the port area is the red 
steel Port Tower. A Ferris wheel sits in nearby Harborland, a notable tourist 
promenade.[citation needed] Two artificial islands, Port Island and Rokkō 
Island, have been constructed to give the city room to expand. Away from 
the seaside at the heart of Kobe lie the Motomachi and Sannomiya districts, 
as well as Kobe's Chinatown, Nankinmachi, all well-known retail areas. 
A multitude of train lines cross the city from east to west. The main transport 
hub is Sannomiya Station, with the eponymous Kobe Station located to the 
west and the Shinkansen Shin-Kobe Station to the north. Mount Rokkō overlooks 
Kobe at an elevation of 931 meters. During the autumn season, it is famous 
for the rich change in colors of its forests. Kobe Port Tower Harborland 
Kobe Chinatown, Motomachi The giant panda, Koukou, at Oji Zoo Kobe has 
nine wards (ku): Kobe has a humid subtropical climate (Köppen climate classification 
Cfa) with hot summers and cool to cold winters. Precipitation is significantly 
higher in summer than in winter, though on the whole lower than most parts 
of Honshū, and there is no significant snowfall. As of September 2007, 
Kobe has an estimated population of 1,530,295 making up 658,876 households. 
This is an increase of 1,347 persons or approximately 0.1 percent over 
the previous year. The population density is approximately 2,768 persons 
per square kilometre, while there are about 90.2 males to every 100 females.[23] 
About thirteen percent of the population are between the ages of 0 and 
14, sixty-seven percent are between 15 and 64, and twenty percent are over 
the age of 65.[24] Approximately 44,000 registered foreign nationals live 
in Kobe. The four most common nationalities are Korean (22,237), Chinese 
(12,516), Vietnamese (1,301), and American (1,280).[24] The Port of Kobe 
is both an important port and manufacturing center within the Hanshin Industrial 
Region. Kobe is the busiest container port in the region, surpassing even 
Osaka, and the fourth busiest in Japan.[25] As of 2004[update], the city's 
total real GDP was ¥6.3 trillion, which amounts to thirty-four percent 
of the GDP for Hyōgo Prefecture and approximately eight percent for the 
whole Kansai region.[26][27] Per capita income for the year was approximately 
¥2.7 million.[26] Broken down by sector, about one percent of those employed 
work in the primary sector (agriculture, fishing and mining), twenty-one 
percent work in the secondary sector (manufacturing and industry), and 
seventy-eight percent work in the service sector.[24] The value of manufactured 
goods produced and exported from Kobe for 2004 was ¥2.5 trillion. The four 
largest sectors in terms of value of goods produced are small appliances, 
food products, transportation equipment, and communication equipment making 
up over fifty percent of Kobe's manufactured goods. In terms of numbers 
of employees, food products, small appliances, and transportation equipment 
make up the three largest sectors.[28] The GDP in Kobe Metropolitan Employment 
Area (2.4 million people) is US$ 96.0 billion in 2010.[29][30] Japanese 
companies which have their headquarters in Kobe include ASICS, a shoe manufacturer; 
Daiei, a department store chain; Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Kawasaki Shipbuilding 
Co., Mitsubishi Motors, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (ship manufacturer), 
Mitsubishi Electric, Kobe Steel, Sumitomo Rubber Industries,[31] Sysmex 
Corporation (medical devices manufacturer)[32] and TOA Corporation. Other 
companies include the confectionery manufacturers Konigs-Krone and Morozoff 
Ltd., Sun Television Japan and UCC Ueshima Coffee Co. There are over 100 
international corporations with East-Asia or Japan headquarters in Kobe. 
Of these, twenty-four are from China, eighteen from the United States, 
and nine from Switzerland.[7] Some prominent corporations include Eli Lilly 
and Company, Nestlé, Procter & Gamble,[33] Tempur-Pedic, Boehringer-Ingelheim, 
and Toys "R" Us. Kobe is the site of a number of research institutes, such 
as the RIKEN Kobe Institute Center for developmental biology and medical 
imaging techniques,[34] the National Institute of Information and Communications 
Technology Kobe Advanced ICT Research Center,[35] the National Research 
Institute for Earth Science and Disaster Prevention,[36] and the Asian 
Disaster Reduction Center.[37] International organizations include the 
WHO Centre for Health Development, an intergovernmental agency forming 
part of the World Health Organization. The Consulate-General of Panama 
in Kobe is located on the eighth floor of the Moriyama Building in Chūō-ku, 
Kobe.[38] Kawasaki Heavy Industries headquarters on Harborland. Kawasaki 
Shipbuilding Co. headquarters on Kobe Harbor. Procter & Gamble Asia headquarters 
on Rokko Island. Nestlé Japan Ltd. headquarters on Sannomiya. UCC Ueshima 
Coffee Co. headquarters on Port Island. Osaka International Airport in 
nearby Itami and Kobe Airport, built on a reclaimed island south of Port 
Island, offer mainly domestic flights, while Kansai International Airport 
in Osaka is the main international hub in the area. Sannomiya Station is 
the main commuter hub in Kobe, serving as the transfer point for the three 
major intercity rail lines (see external map). The JR Kobe Line connects 
Kobe to Osaka and Himeji while both the Hankyū Kobe Line and the Hanshin 
Main Line run from Kobe to Umeda Station in Osaka. In addition, Kobe Municipal 
Subway provides access to the Sanyō Shinkansen at Shin-Kobe Station. Sanyō 
Electric Railway trains from Himeji reach Sannomiya via the Kobe Rapid 
Railway. Other rail lines in Kobe include Kōbe Electric Railway which runs 
north to Sanda and Arima Onsen. Hokushin Kyūkō Railway connects Shin-Kobe 
Station to Tanigami Station on the Kobe Electric Railway. Kobe New Transit 
runs two lines, the Port Island Line from Sannomiya to Kobe Airport and 
the Rokko Island Line from JR Sumiyoshi Station to Rokko Island. Over Mount 
Rokkō, the city has two funicular lines and three aerial lifts as well, 
namely Maya Cablecar, Rokkō Cable Line, Rokkō Arima Ropeway, Maya Ropeway, 
and Shin-Kobe Ropeway. Kobe is a hub in a number of expressways, including 
the Meishin Expressway (Nagoya - Kobe) and the Hanshin Expressway (Osaka 
- Kobe).[39] Other expressways include the Sanyō Expressway (Kobe - Yamaguchi) 
and the Chūgoku Expressway (Osaka - Yamaguchi). The Kobe-Awaji-Naruto Expressway 
runs from Kobe to Naruto via Awaji Island and includes the Akashi-Kaikyo 
Bridge, the longest suspension bridge in the world. The city of Kobe directly 
administers 169 elementary and 81 middle schools, with enrollments of approximately 
80,200 and 36,000 students, respectively.[40] If the city's four private 
elementary schools and fourteen private middle schools are included, these 
figures jump to a total 82,000 elementary school students and 42,300 junior 
high students enrolled for the 2006 school year.[24][41][42] Kobe also 
directly controls six of the city's twenty-five full-time public high schools 
including Fukiai High School and Rokkō Island High School. The remainder 
are administered by the Hyogo Prefectural Board of Education.[40][43] In 
addition, twenty-five high schools are run privately within the city.[44] 
The total enrollment for high schools in 2006 was 43,400.[24] Kobe is home 
to eighteen public and private universities, including Kobe University, 
Kobe Institute of Computing and Konan University, and eight junior colleges. 
Students enrolled for 2006 reached 67,000 and 4,100, respectively.[24] 
Kobe is also home to 17 Japanese language schools for international students, 
including the international training group Lexis Japan. Kobe is most famous 
for its Kobe beef and Arima Onsen (hot springs). Notable buildings include 
the Ikuta Shrine as well as the Kobe Port Tower. It is well known for the 
night view of the city, from mountains such as Mount Rokkō, and Mount Maya 
as well as the coast. Kobe is also known for having a somewhat exotic atmosphere 
by Japanese standards, which is mainly as a result of its history as a 
port city. The city is widely associated with cosmopolitanism and fashion, 
encapsulated in the Japanese phrase, "If you can't go to Paris, go to Kobe."[45] 
The biannual fashion event Kobe Fashion Week, centered around the Kobe 
Collection is held in Kobe.[46] The jazz festival "Kobe Jazz Street" has 
been held every October at jazz clubs and hotels since 1981.[47] Kobe is 
the site of Japan's first golf course, Kobe Golf Club, established by Arthur 
Hesketh Groom in 1903,[48] and Japan's first mosque, Kobe Mosque, built 
in 1935.[49] The city hosts the Kobe Regatta & Athletic Club, founded in 
1870 by Alexander Cameron Sim,[50] a prominent foreign cemetery, and a 
number of Western-style residences from the 19th century, in the Kitano 
area. Museums include Kobe City Museum and Kobe City Museum of Literature. 
Most of the 1957 romantic drama Sayonara takes place in Kobe. The city 
is the setting of much of the Studio Ghibli film Grave of the Fireflies. 
The dialect spoken in Kobe is called Kobe-ben, a sub-dialect of Kansai 
dialect. It is famous for a perfect tense -too and a progressive tense 
-yoo instead of Osakan form -toru and Standard form -teiru. Kobe played 
host to the 1991 Men's Asian Basketball Championship, which was the qualifier 
for the 1992 Summer Olympics Basketball Tournament. Kobe was one of the 
host cities of the 2002 FIFA World Cup, hosting matches at Noevir Stadium 
Kobe (then known as Wing Stadium Kobe), which was renovated to increase 
its capacity to 40,000 for the event. Kobe has a total of ten sister cities, 
friendship cities, and friendship and cooperation cities.[51] They are: 
Kobe's sister ports are: Other city affiliations: Taisan-ji. The main hall 
is a National Treasure of Japan. An'yō-in. Its karesansui is one of Japan's 
Places of Scenic Beauty. This nishiki-e (colored woodcut) shows a foreign 
steamboat entering Hyōgo Port shortly after its opening to the West in 
the late 19th century. Kobe from an airplane Akashi-Kaikyo Bridge Downtown 
Kobe from Po-ai Shiosai Park Sannomiya (downtown) Night view from Kikuseidai 
Downtown at night Kobe night view from Nunobiki Herb Garden Kobe Earthquake 
Memorial Park Foreigner's Cemetery (外国人墓地) on the slopes of Futatabiyama 
