1924–1949 Foul line: 110m (360 ft) Power alley: 128m (420 ft) Center: 120m 
(394 ft) 1949–1991 Foul line: 91m (299 ft) Power alley: 119m (390 ft) Center: 
120m (394 ft) Hanshin Koshien Stadium (阪神甲子園球場, Hanshin Kōshien Kyūjō?) 
is a baseball park located near Kobe in Nishinomiya, Hyōgo Prefecture, 
Japan. The stadium was built to host the national high school baseball 
tournaments, and opened on August 1, 1924. It was the largest stadium in 
Asia at the time it was completed, with a capacity of 55,000. The name 
Kōshien (甲子園) comes from the Sexagenary cycle system. The year of the stadium's 
founding, 1924, was the first year kōshi (甲子) in the cycle. The design 
of the stadium was heavily influenced by the Polo Grounds in New York City. 
In 1936 it became the home stadium for the Osaka Tigers (current Hanshin 
Tigers), now with the Central League. On February 14, 1964, Hanshin, the 
Tigers' owners, was appended to the name of Koshien Stadium. In addition 
to the annual National High School Baseball Championship, played in August, 
the stadium hosts the annual National High School Baseball Invitational 
Tournament in March, a smaller, invitational tournament. Both tournaments 
are generally known simply as Kōshien. The high school tournaments are 
given a higher priority, with any tournament games that need to be rescheduled 
forcing the Tigers to postpone conflicting home games. It also hosts Japan's 
American college football national championship game, the Koshien Bowl. 
Legendary baseball player Babe Ruth played an exhibition game at Koshien 
on his Japan tour in 1934. There is a plaque at the stadium commemorating 
the event.[2] The Great Hanshin earthquake of 1995 affected Kōshien. Cracks 
appeared and part of the stands collapsed. In July 2004, a concrete plan 
surfaced for improvement of the complete baseball ground facilities. Construction 
began during the off-season of 2008 while the stadium continued to be used 
for baseball. Later stages followed during the off-season, and the large-scale 
construction was completed in 2010. The main points of the plan are as 
follows: The stadium has four seating price ranges. The top seats are the 
green seats (sold in season tickets) directly behind home plate and under 
the "Ginsan" roof. These seats are entirely covered and corporate. The 
seats in the infield are colored green on the first base side and the third 
base side under the "Ginsan" roof and called "Ivy Seat". Both sides are 
¥4,000. The outfield benches along the lines are called the "Alps" and 
they are ¥2,500. The outfield seats are ¥1,900. As with all Japanese stadiums, 
the home supporters sit in right field and the away supporters in left 
field. However, even if the opponents are the Yomiuri Giants, the away 
supporters rarely constitute more than one section high up in left field. 
On most nights the stadium is jam-packed with cramped seating. Koshien 
plays a big part in many baseball manga series, including Touch, Cross 
Game and H2 by Mitsuru Adachi and in other Authors works like Higuchi Asa's 
Ōkiku Furikabutte and Rookies by Masanori Morita and Ace of Diamond by 
Yuji Terajima. It was also talked about in Major where Koshien is the aim 
of all high school baseball teams to play there. The park also plays a 
part, in name, in the anime Princess Nine. The events of the 2-hour Detective 
Conan special episode Miracle at Koshien Ball Park! The Defiants Face the 
Dark Demon take place in the stadium. In the light novel and anime adaptation 
of Melancholy of Haruhi Suzumiya (specifically the episode Melancholy of 
Haruhi Suzumiya Part 5), Haruhi's explanation of why she searches for the 
supernatural involves a baseball game she viewed with her family in Koshien. 
The stadium also appears as a stage in the fighting game The King of Fighters 
'97, crowded and adapted for the KOF tournament, with the fighters standing 
on a catwalk-like structure. In Nodame Cantabile, the heroine Megumi Noda 
kept a bag of soil from Koshien Stadium. In Angel Beats!, Hinata says he 
was part of a baseball team that was aiming to play in Koshien. In Silver 
Spoon, Ichiro Komaba is determined to get his baseball team to Koshien 
in order to go pro and make money for his family farm. Koshien Stadium 
is a two-minute walk from Koshien Station on the Hanshin Electric Railway 
Main Line. There is no parking lot at the stadium. Regular television commercials 
during game broadcasts encourage the public to use public transportation. 
