KPLR-TV, virtual channel 11 (UHF digital channel 26), is a CW-affiliated 
television station located in St. Louis, Missouri, United States. The station 
is owned by the Tribune Broadcasting subsidiary of Tribune Media, as part 
of a duopoly with Fox affiliate KTVI (channel 2). The two stations share 
studio facilities located on Ball Drive in the northwestern St. Louis County 
community of Maryland Heights (though with a St. Louis city address), KPLR's 
transmitter is located in Lemay. The station first signed on the air on 
April 28, 1959, as the first independent station in Missouri.[1] The station's 
call letters were derived from the name of its founding owner, St. Louis 
real estate developer and hotelier Harold Koplar. Despite losing in his 
quest to build the station from the ground up, Koplar acquired the station's 
license in 1958 through controversial circumstances. CBS was originally 
granted a construction permit by the Federal Communications Commission 
to build channel 11 in January 1957, prevailing over three other locally 
based competitors.[2] But eight months later, CBS decided instead to purchase 
its existing St. Louis affiliate, KWK-TV (channel 4).[3] As a condition 
of the channel 4 purchase, the FCC required CBS to relinquish the channel 
11 license and construction permit. CBS did so by transferring it to the 
Koplar group, known as "220 Television, Incorporated", for no financial 
consideration.[4] Almost immediately, the three-way deal was held up after 
the St. Louis Amusement Company, one of the original applicants for channel 
11, protested to the United States Court of Appeals in January 1958.[5][6] 
The U.S. Supreme Court ultimately upheld the decision in November 1958,[7][8] 
but CBS had already consummated its deal for channel 4 several months earlier, 
changing the station's call letters to KMOX-TV[9] – which were intended 
for channel 11 – and operated it for 28 years (it is now Meredith Corporation-owned 
KMOV). Meanwhile, Koplar went to work building channel 11 on its own, no 
longer in the face of opposition. KPLR originally operated from studios 
within the Koplar-owned Chase Park Plaza Hotel, located on Maryland Plaza 
in St. Louis' Central West End district. Channel 11 would move into a separate 
facility adjacent to the hotel several years later. Starting in the mid-1960s, 
Harold's son Edward J. "Ted" Koplar began working behind the scenes at 
KPLR, producing sports programming and developing the station's first regular 
local newscast. Ted Koplar became president and chief executive officer 
of channel 11 in 1979, and gained complete control of the station upon 
his father's death in 1985. For most of its existence, KPLR was a traditional 
independent station featuring cartoons, sitcoms, movies, drama series and 
locally produced newscasts. The station was also available on many cable 
systems in Missouri, Illinois and Arkansas as a regional superstation until 
the late 1980s. Locally, channel 11's first and only competitor came in 
1969, when Evans Broadcasting launched KDNL-TV (channel 30). KPLR turned 
down an offer to affiliate with the upstart Fox network in 1986, choosing 
to remain an independent station instead. This may have been because most 
of the markets in channel 11's cable footprint had enough stations to provide 
Fox affiliates at the outset, making the prospect of KPLR as a multistate 
Fox affiliate unattractive to the Koplars. The Fox affiliation for the 
market went to KDNL when that network launched on October 9 of that year. 
On January 11, 1995, KPLR became a network affiliate for the first time 
when it became a charter station of The WB. Around the same time, the station 
was also offered the ABC affiliation after that network's longtime St. 
Louis affiliate, KTVI (channel 2) announced that it would switch to Fox 
as part of a groupwide affiliation agreement with New World Communications 
(which was in the process of acquiring the station from Argyle Television 
at the time). Channel 11 turned down the ABC affiliation, which eventually 
went to outgoing Fox affiliate KDNL on August 7, 1995. Koplar Communications 
sold KPLR to ACME Communications in 1997, ending 38 years of local, family 
ownership and earning a handsome return on their original investment. In 
the sale agreement, Ted Koplar signed a three-year contract to remain with 
KPLR-TV as its chief executive officer, along with serving as a consultant 
to ACME. However, Koplar resigned after one year, citing an irreconcilable 
rift.[10] For many years, even after joining The WB, KPLR was branded on-air 
as "St. Louis 11", often using a logo with the "O" in "St. Louis" (which 
had a resemblance to the Gateway Arch) converted into its "circle 11" numeric 
logo; KPLR changed its branding to "WB11" in 1998. In 1999, KPLR began 
carrying UPN programming as a secondary affiliation, running select primetime 
shows and cartoons from the network's children's program block, Disney's 
One Too. UPN programs had previously run on KDNL during overnight and weekend 
timeslots and then on KNLC (channel 24, which subjected the network to 
several program preemptions due to content objections by owner, Larry Rice). 
St. Louis was one of the few top-50 markets without a UPN affiliate. The 
station continued carrying UPN in off-hours until WRBU (channel 46) disaffiliated 
from Home Shopping Network to join UPN in April 2003. In March 2003, ACME 
Communications sold KPLR-TV and its Portland, Oregon sister station KWBP 
to Tribune Broadcasting. That same year, KPLR relocated its operations 
out of the Chase Park Plaza (which by that time, went from a gutted complex 
where the station had been the only major tenant into a boutique hotel) 
and into a new purpose-built studio facility in Maryland Heights. On January 
24, 2006, CBS Corporation (which split from Viacom in December 2005) and 
Time Warner's Warner Bros. Entertainment (the division that operated The 
WB) announced that they would dissolve UPN and The WB, and move some of 
their programs to a newly created network operated as a joint venture between 
the companies, The CW.[11][12] The network signed a ten-year affiliation 
agreement with Tribune Broadcasting for 16 of the 19 WB affiliates that 
the company owned at the time, including KPLR.[13] Nearly one month later 
on February 22, News Corporation announced the launch of a competing network, 
MyNetworkTV, which would be run by its Fox Television Stations and Twentieth 
Television units.[14] The CW launched (with KPLR as its St. Louis affiliate) 
on September 18, 2006, the day after The WB ended operations; MyNetworkTV 
affiliated with WRBU. On September 17, 2008, the Tribune Company announced 
that it would enter KPLR into a local marketing agreement with Fox affiliate 
KTVI effective October 1,[15] as a result of the formation of a "broadcast 
management company" that was created to provide management services to 
stations owned by both Tribune Broadcasting and KTVI owner Local TV. Although 
KTVI was the senior partner in the deal, it vacated its longtime studios 
in the Clayton-Tamm/Dogtown neighborhood on St. Louis' west side and moved 
its operations to KPLR's Maryland Heights facility (Tribune bought KTVI 
outright on July 1, 2013, as part of its $2.75 billion acquisition of Local 
TV;[16] the sale received FCC approval on December 20,[17] and it was completed 
on December 27,[18] creating the first legal station duopoly in the St. 
Louis market between KTVI and KPLR). The LMA resulted in both stations 
combining their news departments and sharing certain syndicated programs. 
On November 1, 2008, the station changed its on-air branding from "CW11" 
to "KPLR 11" as several Tribune-owned CW affiliates began shifting away 
from using references to the network within their station branding, and 
reincorporated the Gateway Arch into its logo (essentially, a revision 
of the logo that KPLR used following the Tribune purchase as a WB affiliate). 
There have long been rumors that ABC has considered moving its affiliation 
to KPLR, in part because KDNL-TV has been one of the network's weakest 
affiliates since joining the network in 1995 (in stark contrast to KTVI's 
former status as one of ABC's strongest affiliates). However, on March 
26, 2010, KDNL owner Sinclair Broadcast Group extended its affiliation 
agreement with ABC to retain the network's affiliation on KDNL and the 
eight other ABC affiliates that Sinclair owned at the time for five years 
through August 2015.[19] The station's digital channel is multiplexed: 
On May 31, 2006, KPLR added The Tube Music Network to digital subchannel 
11.2; The Tube later abruptly suspended its operations on October 1, 2007. 
In 2010, the 11.2 subchannel became an affiliate of This TV. On January 
1, 2016, the 11.3 subchannel became a Comet affiliate. KPLR-TV shut down 
its analog signal, over VHF channel 11, on June 12, 2009, the official 
date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned 
from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's 
digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 26.[21][22] Through 
the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual 
channel as its former VHF analog channel 11. KTVI/KPLR presently broadcasts 
a combined 80 hours of locally produced newscasts each week; including 
a public affairs program on Saturday evenings called The Pulse of St. Louis, 
which airs over the final 45 minutes of the 7 p.m. newscast, and a weekly 
sports highlight program on Sunday evenings called Sunday Sports Extra, 
which also airs during that newscast. Channel 11 has aired local news programs 
since its sign-on, and was one of the first independent stations in the 
country to have a functioning news department. Like most stations that 
are not affiliated with one of the Big Three networks, KPLR had traditionally 
aired a primetime newscast at 9 p.m. that ran one hour ahead of the late 
newscasts seen on the major network affiliates; for much of the time prior 
to 2008, KPLR's 9 p.m. newscast ran as a half-hour program. After KTVI 
moved its late evening newscast to 9 p.m. following its August 1995 switch 
from ABC to Fox, that station's primetime newscast consistently beat KPLR's 
in the ratings. In the past, KPLR has attempted to format its newscasts 
to attract a younger audience, employing anchors under the age of 35 and 
featuring a more fast-paced reporting style. However, in a market where 
most television personalities have been around for several years and the 
perennial ratings winner, NBC affiliate KSDK (channel 5), does not have 
a main presenter who has been with the station less than ten years, this 
for the most part caused channel 11 to struggle in the ratings, in addition 
to what viewers perceived as a "soft" approach to news. Nevertheless, KPLR 
has often been acknowledged by St. Louis Post-Dispatch television critics 
as a station strong on "sweeps stories", running one or more major investigative 
pieces during the November, January and May sweeps periods. KPLR's stories 
have also been seen as much more broad-based and less sensationalistic 
compared to other stations. After entering into the local marketing agreement 
with KTVI, major changes were made to KPLR's news programming. First on 
September 8, 2008, KPLR shifted the flagship 9 p.m. newscast to 7 p.m. 
and expanded the program to one hour, trading timeslots with The CW's primetime 
schedule, which the station moved to 8-10 p.m. (instead of the network-recommended 
7-9 p.m. Central Time slot) at the network's permission; this effectively 
resulted in the newscast being reduced to airing only on Monday through 
Friday evenings in part due to The CW airing a three-hour primetime lineup 
on Sundays at the time (although The CW turned its Sunday primetime slots 
over to the network's affiliates in September 2009, the 7 p.m. newscast 
would not expand to weekends until September 2012). The station cited an 
underserved younger audience in the 9 p.m. timeslot with the Big Three 
stations airing network programming meant for older viewers and competition 
from KTVI's 9 p.m. newscast as reasons behind the move.[23] In December 
2008, KPLR moved production of its news programs to a temporary set in 
KTVI's Hampton studios as the Maryland Heights facility was being remodeled 
to accommodate both KPLR and KTVI's newscasts. On February 16, 2009, KPLR 
became the fourth St. Louis television station to begin broadcasting its 
local newscasts in high definition (one day after KTVI converted its newscasts 
to HD), broadcasting from a newly remodeled studio (which contained pieces 
from the KTVI's former "Studio B" set, along with a modernized news desk 
and a state-of-the-art weather center) that is located adjacent to the 
main news set now occupied by KTVI. Since KPLR and KTVI's news departments 
merged, there has been considerable sharing between the two stations in 
regards to news coverage, video footage and the use of reporters, although 
both outlets maintain their own primary on-air personalities (such as news 
and sports anchors) that only appear on one station. On April 6, 2009, 
KPLR debuted an hour-long midday newscast at noon on weekdays.[24] This 
was followed on September 20, 2010 with the debut of an hour-long afternoon 
newscast at 4 p.m.[25] On December 23, 2011, KPLR/KTVI opened a news bureau 
in the newly renovated Peabody Opera House in downtown St. Louis, to better 
serve the downtown and eastern portion of the St. Louis metropolitan area. 
On January 28, 2015, KTVI/KPLR introduced a new combined set with LED lighting, 
two video walls, and a new anchor desk. Both stations now share the set 
but KPLR has a separate Weather center. They also introduced new graphics 
and music package for both stations the same day.[26] KPLR-TV has served 
as the home broadcaster of the MLB's St. Louis Cardinals (for two stints 
from 1959 to 1962 and 1988 to 2006), the NBA's St. Louis Hawks (1959–1968) 
and the NHL's St. Louis Blues (for three stints from 1967 to 1976, 1982–83 
and 1986 to April 21, 2009, the last Blues telecast on KPLR being a Stanley 
Cup playoff loss to the Vancouver Canucks). On May 23, 1959, the station 
debuted Wrestling at the Chase, a professional wrestling program that was 
originally produced from Chase Park Plaza's Khorassan Ballroom (until 1970). 
The show featured the most famous wrestlers in the National Wrestling Alliance, 
which was controlled in part by St. Louis promoter Sam Muchnick. Participants 
included Ric Flair, Harley Race, former NFL player Dick the Bruiser and 
Ted DiBiase, and is considered one of the wrestling industry's most historic 
programs. About 1,100 episodes were produced during the show's run, which 
ended on September 10, 1983. KPLR produced a retrospective of the program 
in 1999, consisting mostly of latter-era footage plus interview clips of 
Muchnick's wrestlers and other employees, as well as others associated 
with the St. Louis sports scene such as Bob Costas and Joe Garagiola, the 
latter the program's first host. Included were clips from the program's 
only known surviving early episode, from 1962, which Garagiola recorded 
as an audition tape before leaving the program and kept throughout the 
years. From April 9, 2006 to September 7, 2008, KPLR produced The Fan Show, 
a live sports talk program that was hosted by sports director Rich Gould, 
featuring audience-participation games and discussion. It was originally 
broadcast from The Casino Queen's Club Sevens for the first 20 months of 
its run, before the program relocated to AJ's Bar and Grill in December 
2007. From 1959 to 1968, KPLR aired the after-school children's program 
Captain 11's Showboat, which introduced The Three Stooges to St. Louis 
area television viewers. Captain 11 was played by longtime radio personality 
Harry Fender. Ted Koplar also diversified his family's entertainment holdings 
during his time at the helm of KPLR. This was most notably achieved through 
World Events Productions, which distributed three animated series Voltron: 
Defender of the Universe, Saber Rider and the Star Sheriffs, and Denver, 
