KSDK virtual channel 5 (UHF digital channel 35) is an NBC-affiliated television 
station located in St. Louis, Missouri, United States. The station is owned 
by Tegna, Inc. KSDK maintains studio facilities and offices located on 
Market Street in Downtown St. Louis, and its transmitter is located in 
Shrewsbury. The station first signed on the air as KSD-TV on February 8, 
1947; it was owned by the Pulitzer Publishing Company, publishers of the 
St. Louis Post-Dispatch and owners of KSD radio (550 AM, now KTRS). It 
was the ninth television station to sign on in the United States, the first 
station in Missouri and the second station located west of the Mississippi 
River. In the early days, KSD produced much of its own programming and 
developed its own talent pool. Many St. Louis television pioneers from 
KSD-TV came from radio, including Frank Eschen, Kay Morton, Russ Severin 
and Dave Russell.[2] Because of a freeze on new television station licenses 
imposed by the Federal Communications Commission, KSD-TV was the only television 
station in the St. Louis market, until WTVI (channel 54, now KTVI channel 
2) signed on in August 1953. Channel 5 has always been an NBC affiliate, 
owing to KSD radio's longtime affiliation with the NBC Red Network; the 
station is currently the longest-tenured affiliate of any major broadcast 
television network. In its early years, channel 5 also carried secondary 
affiliations with CBS, DuMont and ABC. In the early 1960s, Channel 5 became 
the first St. Louis television station to broadcast in color. After Pulitzer 
sold KSD radio to Combined Communications Corporation in 1979 (prior to 
Combined's merger with the Gannett Company that same year), KSD-TV's call 
letters were modified to the current KSDK on July 10th of that year. Four 
years later, Pulitzer traded channel 5 to Multimedia, Inc. in return for 
WFBC-TV (now WYFF) in Greenville, South Carolina and WXII in Winston-Salem, 
North Carolina, in what was a rare instance of one company's flagship station 
being traded for another.[3] During the 1980s and 1990s, KSDK was the highest-rated 
NBC affiliate in the country, and it remains the most-watched NBC affiliate 
in the top 30 markets to this day, despite the network's overall ratings 
decline that has occurred since the 2004-05 season.[citation needed] In 
1989, KSDK dropped the Eyewitness News branding and rebranded its newscasts 
as NewsChannel 5; the station also began to operate on a 24-hour-a-day 
schedule. On July 24, 1995, Multimedia was purchased by the Gannett Company, 
with the acquisition finalized on December 4.[4][5] In 1998, KSDK debuted 
the "Window on St. Louis," a streetside studio located in the same downtown 
St. Louis building that also houses KSDK's other studios. The local program 
Show Me St. Louis broadcasts from this studio, which welcomes the public 
to take part in the telecasts. The Window on St. Louis is modeled on Today's 
"Window on the World." In an attempt to provide St. Louisans with local 
and national election results during the 2004 elections, KSDK partnered 
with PBS member station KETC (channel 9) to simulcast election coverage. 
The KSDK/KETC partnership continued through September 2005, when, along 
with radio partners KYKY (98.1 FM) and KEZK (102.5 FM), a telethon for 
Hurricane Katrina relief was simulcast. KSDK produced the first broadcast 
of any local program in St. Louis in high definition, when it broadcast 
the St. Louis Thanksgiving Day Parade on November 24, 2005. Incidentally, 
the 2005 parade also marked the final year that the event, which had been 
a Thanksgiving Day tradition on KSDK, would be broadcast on the station, 
as the parade moved to CBS affiliate KMOV (channel 4) in 2006. Around the 
first week of October 2012, Gannett entered a dispute against Dish Network 
regarding compensation fees and Dish's AutoHop commercial-skip feature 
on its Hopper digital video recorders. Gannett ordered that Dish discontinue 
AutoHop on the account that it is affecting advertising revenues for KSDK. 
Gannett threatened to suspend its contact with the satellite provider should 
the skirmish continue beyond October 7 and Dish and Gannett fail to reach 
an agreement.[6][7] The two parties eventually reached an agreement after 
extending the deadline for a few hours.[8] On June 29, 2015, the Gannett 
Company split in two, with one side specializing in print media and the 
other side specializing in broadcast and digital media. KSDK was retained 
by the latter company, named TEGNA.[9] KSDK is active in several community-based 
and charitable projects: The station's digital channel is multiplexed: 
Since August 28, 2013, digital subchannel 5.2 has been affiliated with 
Bounce TV; it is carried locally on Charter Communications digital channel 
127. The subchannel previously operated as "First Alert Weather 5", which 
debuted in June 2005 as an affiliate of NBC Weather Plus (under the name 
"NewsChannel 5 Weather PLUS"), before affiliating with The Local AccuWeather 
Channel in December 2008, after NBC Weather Plus discontinued operations. 
On January 20, 2015 KSDK launched 5.3 which carries a feed of THE Justice 
Network, which launched the same day. KSDK shut down its analog signal, 
over VHF channel 5, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power 
television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital 
broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal remained 
on its pre-transition UHF channel 35.[12][13] Through the use of PSIP, 
digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its 
former VHF analog channel 5. KSDK dominated the news ratings in St. Louis 
for the better part of its first six decades on the air. KMOX-TV (now KMOV) 
took the lead in the late 1960s, but KSDK regained the #1 spot in the early 
1980s and kept it for most of the next two decades, with some of the highest 
(and by some measures, the highest) rated newscasts in the nation. For 
much of that time, its main anchors stayed at the station for 10 years 
or more. At one point, its 6 p. m. newscast ended with local elementary 
schoolchildren flashing the hand signs for "5" and "1", signifying that, 
as a promo featuring the kids said, "Even a 2nd grader could tell you that 
Channel 5 is Number 1." During the spring 2004 sweeps, it lost its first-place 
position at 10 p.m. to KMOV, and the two stations have traded the ratings 
crown in that timeslot several times since then. KMOV has also closed its 
ratings gap in several other timeslots, due in part to NBC's overall weaker 
ratings since 2004. KSDK's ratings dominance began to slip dramatically 
in 2009, first losing late news to KMOV, and then morning news to KTVI. 
In 2013, its ratings went into free fall. The November 2013 ratings book 
saw KSDK tumble into last place for the first time in its history. KTVI 
easily won the morning news and KMOV swept the rest. KSDK presently broadcasts 
39 hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with 6½ hours on weekdays, 
3½ hours on Saturdays and three hours on Sundays). In addition, the station 
produces a sports wrap-up program on Sunday evenings after the 10 p.m. 
newscast called Sports Plus, hosted by sports director Rene Knott and sports 
anchor Frank Cusumano (it was originally hosted by Mike Bush until he moved 
from sports director to news anchor in 2004). KSDK used to operate a Bell 
206B3 JetRanger helicopter called "Chopper 5", that was used for breaking 
news and severe weather coverage. To save money, the station began paying 
market leader KMOV to use video from its chopper in 2010. Its news reporting 
has also won the station a multitude of journalism awards including Regional 
Emmys, Gabriel Awards and Regional Edward R. Murrow Awards. With KSDK now 
occupying the ratings cellar in the St. Louis news ratings, its dominance 
has become a distant memory. Jennifer Blome and Art Holliday had one of 
the longest anchor pairings in U.S. local television history, anchoring 
the station's weekday morning newscast from August 1989 until Holliday 
was reassigned to co-anchor a new half-hour 4 p.m. newscast (alongside 
Kay Quinn) that debuted on September 12, 2011,[14] while Blome was paired 
with Pat McGonigle (formerly of WHEC-TV/Rochester) on the morning newscast.[15] 
On September 12, 2005, KSDK debuted a half-hour weekday newscast at 10 
a.m., following the third hour of NBC's Today; the newscast was discontinued 
in September 2009, but returned on September 12, 2011 as an hour-long program 
(as a result, the fourth hour of Today airs on a one-hour delay at 11 a.m.). 
On February 6, 2006, KSDK became the first television station in St. Louis, 
and the seventh station in the United States, to broadcast all newscasts 
and locally produced programming in high definition; it also became the 
first St. Louis area station to stream all of its newscasts online. On 
August 13, 2007, KSDK debuted Online @ 9, a 10-minute news webcast on the 
station's website that is tailored to an online audience. On November 11, 
2010, KSDK entered into a news share agreement with Sinclair Broadcast 
Group-owned ABC affiliate KDNL-TV, to produce two pre-recorded half-hour 
newscasts at 5 and 10 p.m. weeknights for that station starting on January 
3, 2011 (prior to the agreement, KDNL had not run any local newscasts since 
it shut down its news department in October 2001); in addition. KDNL has 
also aired weekend rebroadcasts of KSDK's entertainment/features program 
Show Me St. Louis.[16] KDNL general manager Tom Tipton stated that the 
station did not want to run simulcast or repurposed newscasts in its efforts 
to return daily newscasts to channel 30.[17] The arrangement is unusual 
given that KSDK and KDNL are both "Big Three" network affiliates, and the 
fact that the newscasts on both stations compete against one another. The 
agreement with KDNL was to have ended on December 31, 2013;[18] however, 
it was extended for another month until January 31, 2014. On September 
12, 2011, along with the relaunch of its 10 a.m. newscast and the addition 
of a 4 p.m. newscast, Today in St. Louis expanded from 2½ to three hours 
on weekday mornings, now running at 4-7 a.m.; while the noon newscast was 
reduced to a half-hour with Show Me St. Louis being moved to fill the remaining 
half-hour. With these additions, KSDK was reduced to only three hours of 
syndicated daytime shows to back up its newscasts outside of NBC network 
programming.[14][19] In January 2014, KSDK faced criticism from educators 
and the community for an undercover piece on school security. On January 
16, a KSDK videojournalist entered Kirkwood High School in Kirkwood to 
test the school's security, wearing a hidden camera. This followed several 
other tests at local single-building elementary schools, whereas Kirkwood 
High School is a multi-building campus. Thus, Kirkwood was the only school 
where the employee entered without being questioned.[20] School personnel 
became concerned when the KSDK employee asked to use a restroom and left 
the office in the opposite direction, and when the station would not confirm 
with the school that the employee's visit was only a test, the school was 
placed on lockdown for 40 minutes, when a station representative finally 
confirmed that the employee's presence was for a story.[21] Investigative 
reporter Leisa Zigman apologized on-air for the chain of events leading 
to the lockdown, but the station stood by its story, claiming the lockdown 
did not occur until an hour after the videojournalist left.[22] Despite 
a school spokesperson admitting changes to security needed to be made, 
KSDK was strongly criticized by viewers raising questions about journalistic 
ethics, and anchor Mike Bush led the 10:00pm newscast on January 20 with 
a more formal apology, stating that the station was reviewing its procedures 
to ensure a similar incident would not occur again. It is worth noting 
that the community of Kirkwood suffered a mass shooting in 2008, resulting 
in the deaths of several members of city government and two police officers, 
making it a particularly poor choice for this 'test'.[23] When KSD-TV signed 
on in 1947, it began a longtime association with the St. Louis Cardinals 
as the team's flagship station. On May 8, 1966, during ceremonies for the 
opening of Busch Memorial Stadium, Bill Houska Sr. flew home plate from 
Sportsman's Park to the new downtown stadium in "Chopper 5." The station 
aired Cardinals games from 1947 to 1958, before losing the rights to KPLR-TV 
(channel 11) for the next four seasons. The Cardinals returned in 1963 
and remained on channel 5 until 1987 – long after many other "Big Three" 
network affiliates dropped local sports event coverage. KSDK lost the rights 
to KPLR again after the 1987 season. On December 7, 2006, KSDK re-obtained 
the television rights to Cardinals games effective with the 2007 season, 
ending a 19-year run on KPLR.[25] KSDK aired an average of 20 locally produced 
Cardinals games each year, with most other games airing on Fox Sports Midwest 
outside the St. Louis market. KSDK lost the broadcast rights on July 15, 
2010, when Fox Sports Midwest signed an exclusive contract with the team 
beginning with the 2011 season, ending the Cardinals' over-the-air telecasts.[26] 
The final Cardinals telecast on channel 5 aired on October 3, 2010, with 
a game against the Colorado Rockies. KSDK has had a long history of producing 
local programs, including the Wranglers Club with Texas Bruce (1950–1963), 
Corky's Colorama with Clif St. James playing Corky the Clown (1963–1980), 
Newsbeat hosted by Dick Ford and John Auble (1976–1984), and Midday A.M. 
(c. 1979–1986). Since September 5, 1995, KSDK has aired Show Me St. Louis, 
which highlights local entertainment and other (mostly family-oriented) 
attractions around the St. Louis area. The program usually broadcasts from 
the "Window on St. Louis", where local groups and organizations are allowed 
to bring signs to advertise their events, though it occasionally leaves 
the studio to broadcast from local attractions (such as the St. Louis Zoo, 
Busch Stadium, the Fox Theatre) or from surrounding communities (such as 
Waterloo, Illinois and Florissant) that have uncommon or unknown attractions 
that may be of interest to viewers; these "Great Escapes" (as the segment 
within the show is titled) usually occur during summer months. The program 
is sponsored and has advertorial segments which are disclaimed to be from 
the advertisers which sponsor them, which are then disclaimed at the end 
of each episode. Another short advertorial feature, Simply Irresistible 
is carried in some primetime ad breaks. [27] During the 1980s, the syndicated 
daytime talk show Sally (hosted by Sally Jessy Raphael) originated from 
KSDK's studios (Multimedia Entertainment, a subsidiary of former KSDK owner 
Multimedia, Inc., distributed the program nationally until the company's 
1995 merger with Gannett, with the distribution rights held by Universal 
Television Enterprises and then Studios USA Television until the show's 
