KTVI, virtual channel 2 (UHF digital channel 43), is a Fox–affiliated television 
station located in St. Louis, Missouri, United States. The station is owned 
by the Tribune Broadcasting subsidiary of the Tribune Media Company, as 
part of a duopoly with CW affiliate KPLR-TV (channel 11). The two stations 
share studio facilities located on Ball Drive in northwestern St. Louis 
County (though with a St. Louis city address). KTVI's transmitter is located 
in the unincorporated community of Sappington. The station first signed 
on the air by Signal Hill Telecasting Corporation[1] on August 10, 1953 
as WTVI, broadcasting on UHF channel 54. It was originally licensed to 
Belleville, Illinois (across the Mississippi River from St. Louis) and 
was the second television station in the St. Louis market. The station's 
first broadcast was a baseball game between the St. Louis Browns and Cincinnati 
Reds, announced by Buddy Blattner, Bill Durney and Milo Hamilton. It operated 
as a primary CBS affiliate, and held secondary affiliations with ABC and 
DuMont. DuMont affiliation was agreed to in February 1953 to replace KSD-TV.[1] 
The station was project to sign on May 15, 1953.[1] The station originally 
operated from studios located in Alton, Illinois. The CBS affiliation moved 
to KWK-TV (channel 4, now KMOV) when it debuted on July 8, 1954; more or 
less by default, WTVI became a primary ABC affiliate. The station moved 
to UHF channel 36, and relocated its city of license to St. Louis on April 
9, 1955, keeping the base "TVI" letters as part of its callsign while flipping 
the first assigned letter from "W" to "K", thus changing to the current 
KTVI. It moved its operations to facilities located in the Clayton-Tamm/Dogtown 
neighborhood in west St. Louis (off present-day I-64/US 40 at the intersection 
of Berthold, Oakland and Hampton Avenues). However, the Federal Communications 
Commission had recently changed its regulations so that the station could 
have kept its license in Belleville even while moving its main studio to 
St. Louis. The WTVI calls are currently used by a PBS member station in 
Charlotte, North Carolina. The station lost DuMont programming when the 
network ceased operations in 1956, making KTVI an exclusive ABC affiliate. 
As the FCC would not require television sets to include UHF tuners until 
1961, on April 15, 1957, KTVI moved to VHF channel 2, something it had 
attempted to do soon after moving to St. Louis – the channel 2 allocation 
had been reassigned from Springfield, Illinois under pressure from the 
Truman Administration, originally done so as not to interfere with CBS-owned 
WBBM-TV in Chicago. For many years, the station was owned by the Newhouse 
newspaper chain, owners of the St. Louis Globe-Democrat. In 1980, Newhouse 
exited from broadcasting, and sold KTVI to the Times Mirror Company. In 
1993, KTVI was sold to Argyle Television in a group deal with WVTM-TV in 
Birmingham, Alabama, KTBC in Austin, Texas and KDFW in Dallas. On December 
18, 1993, Fox was awarded the broadcast rights to the NFL's National Football 
Conference television package over CBS.[2] New World Communications entered 
into a $500 million deal on May 23, 1994 to switch most of its major network 
affiliates to Fox, starting that fall at the earliest.[3] New World subsequently 
bought Argyle Television, and cut another deal to switch the affiliations 
of KTVI, KDFW and KTBC to Fox (WVTM did not switch as WBRC, which was placed 
a blind trust, was later sold to Fox outright as New World could not keep 
both due to FCC rules at the time that forbade duopolies). KTVI affiliated 
with Fox on August 7, 1995, ending its 42-year affiliation with ABC, which 
moved to St. Louis's original Fox affiliate, KDNL-TV (channel 30). Starting 
that September, KTVI became the official "home" station of the St. Louis 
Rams – which had recently relocated to the city from Los Angeles (with 
the exception of select primetime telecasts, KTVI broadcast most of the 
NFL franchise's road games as well as most sold out home games against 
other NFC teams). The station chose not to carry children's programming 
from Fox Kids; the block instead aired on religious independent KNLC (channel 
24). However, due to a controversial decision by Reverend Larry Rice (of 
KNLC owner New Life Evangelistic Center) to run ministry messages instead 
of commercials during the block, Fox Kids moved to KTVI in the fall of 
1996 (becoming the only New World-owned Fox station to carry the block). 
Fox Television Stations acquired New World Communications in July 1996;[4] 
upon the completion of the merger on January 22, 1997, KTVI became the 
first network-owned station in the market since CBS sold KMOX-TV (now KMOV) 
to Viacom in 1986. Shortly thereafter, programming changed very slightly 
as Fox Television Stations began acquiring more expensive syndicated programs 
for KTVI. KTVI stopped carrying the Fox Kids weekday block in 2000, although 
the station retained its Saturday morning lineup (this was despite the 
fact that Fox gave its affiliates the option to push the weekday block 
to an earlier afternoon timeslot at that period). Fox discontinued its 
weekday block nationwide on December 31, 2001,[5] while the Saturday lineup 
was contracted out to 4Kids Entertainment and relaunched as FoxBox on September 
14, 2002. From September 2006 until the block (by then, renamed 4Kids TV) 
ended on December 27, 2008, KTVI aired 4Kids TV two hours earlier than 
most stations to accommodate the station's Saturday morning newscast (KTVI 
now airs Fox's Weekend Marketplace infomercial block in its place). KTVI 
first launched its website on November 1, 1999, which featured a design 
similar to other sites belonging to Fox's owned-and-operated stations at 
the time and focused on promotional and programming content initially, 
but eventually incorporated news content. The website was migrated to the 
MyFox platform on September 14, 2006. On October 15, 2007 KTVI launched 
STLMoms.com, a website aimed at St. Louis area moms, whose concept spun 
off from a popular blog featured on the station's main website. On December 
22, 2007, Fox Television Stations announced that it had agreed to sell 
KTVI and seven other Fox owned-and-operated stations[6] to Local TV, a 
television station group formed by Oak Hill Capital Partners that year 
to acquire nine stations owned by The New York Times Company; the sale 
officially closed on July 14, 2008. On June 2, 2008, KTVI launched GarageSaleSTL.com, 
a free website that primarily features a Google-based map of viewer-submitted 
garage sales (the site has since been discontinued). On October 1, 2008, 
Local TV began managing CW affiliate KPLR-TV (channel 11) under a local 
marketing agreement with its owner Tribune Broadcasting[7][8] through a 
"broadcast management company" that was created to provide services to 
stations owned by both Tribune and Local TV. Though it is the senior partner 
in the agreement, KTVI relocated from its longtime Clayton-Tamm/Dogtown 
studios to KPLR's facility in Maryland Heights (KPLR moved to that building, 
the larger of the two facilities, in 2003; whereas KTVI had been operating 
from the Berthold studios for nearly 50 years). Both stations combined 
their news departments and began sharing certain syndicated programs. On 
July 1, 2013, the Tribune Company acquired the Local TV stations outright 
for $2.75 billion;[9] the sale was completed on December 27[10][11] (as 
the FCC bars duopolies between two of a market's four highest-rated stations, 
the resulting common ownership between KTVI and KPLR-TV was only permissible 
as historically fifth-rated KDNL-TV had surpassed KPLR for fourth place 
in the ratings at the time the deal was struck; St. Louis also has only 
nine full-power television stations, seven of which are commercial outlets, 
making this the only legal duopoly allowable in the market under FCC rules). 
On January 11, 2016, NFL owners voted 30-2 to approve the move of the Rams 
back to Los Angeles for the 2016 NFL season; as such, KTVI's status as 
the team's primary station ended after the 2015 season. KTVI began carrying 
Antenna TV upon its launch on January 1, 2011 on digital subchannel 2.2.[13] 
As of January 2016, digital subchannel 2.3 started showing colored bars 
with a pending affiliation to Escape.[citation needed] KTVI shut down its 
analog signal, over VHF channel 2, on June 12, 2009, the official date 
in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned 
from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's 
digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 43.[14][15] Through 
the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual 
channel as its former VHF analog channel 2. KTVI presently broadcasts a 
combined 63½ hours of locally produced newscasts each week (10½ hours on 
weekdays and 5½ hours on weekends); in regards to the number of hours devoted 
to news programming, it is the highest local newscast output among St. 
Louis's broadcast television stations. KTVI's Sunday 5:00 p.m. newscast 
is subject to preemption due to network sports coverage, as is standard 
with Fox stations that carry early evening weekend newscasts (though the 
Saturday 5:00 p.m. newscast is usually delayed to 6:00 p.m. due to baseball 
or college football coverage). As an ABC affiliate, KTVI's newscasts usually 
placed third in the ratings, behind longtime leader KSDK (channel 5) and 
KMOV. However, for most of the 1980s and early 1990s, the station fought 
a spirited battle with KMOX-TV/KMOV for second place. Since 1998, the station's 
weekday morning newscast has placed first among the newscasts in the St. 
Louis market during that time period.[citation needed] Segments regularly 
featured on its newscasts include The Jaco Report (featuring an editorial 
or investigative story presented by Charles Jaco) and You Paid For It (an 
investigative segment reported by Elliott Davis that uncovers city government 
tax abuse; the segment ends by giving the phone number of the office of 
that municipality's mayor, followed by the signoff "Call and speak your 
mind: after all, you paid for it"). After joining Fox in August 1995, KTVI 
increased its news programming output from roughly 30 hours a week to nearly 
45 hours. All of its existing newscasts were retained, but it expanded 
its weekday morning newscast from one to three hours (with two hours added 
from 7:00 to 9:00 a.m.), and bridged the weeknight 5:00 and 6:00 p.m. newscasts 
into a 90-minute early evening news block (by adding a half-hour newscast 
at 5:30 to compensate for Fox's lack of a national news program). However, 
like its Austin sister station KTBC did during its first four years as 
a Fox station, KTVI did not initially add a prime time newscast at 9:00 p.m. 
upon switching to the network to compensate for Fox's lack of prime time 
network programming during that hour; instead, it filled the slot with 
syndicated programming from the August 1995 switch until September 1996, 
when it debuted a half-hour 9:00 p.m. newscast; it continued to air syndicated 
shows during the 9:30 half-hour until the prime time newscast expanded 
to one hour in September 1999, now leading directly into the 10:00 p.m. 
newscast (KTVI is one of several Fox stations that offer newscasts in both 
the final hour of primetime and the traditional late news timeslot, one 
of the few affiliated with the network that runs a nightly 10:00 p.m. (or 
11:00 p.m.) newscast and one of the few to continue its Big Three-era 10:00 p.m. 
newscast after switching to Fox). In addition to compensating for the absence 
of daily national newscasts on Fox's schedule, the expansion of KTVI's 
news schedule also served to fill timeslots vacated by the departures of 
Good Morning America and World News Tonight through its discontinuance 
of the ABC affiliation. KTVI is able to emphasize a broad array of stories 
from national and local reports, to investigative stories because of its 
large news programming output. The station also devotes a sizeable portion 
of its sports coverage to local high school sports (once partnering with 
the St. Louis Post-Dispatch to produce the now-canceled Prep Sports Show 
on Saturdays) and was the home of Jeff Fisher's weekly St. Louis Rams review 
show on Mondays. For much of the time since it affiliated with Fox until 
the LMA began, KTVI's 9:00 p.m. newscast had beaten KPLR-TV's own prime 
time news program in that timeslot. Before Dick Ford retired from the station 
in December 2005, all four of KTVI's main male anchors (Ford, Tom O'Neal, 
Dan Gray and John Pertzborn) formerly served as anchors at KSDK. On April 
10, 2006, KTVI debuted a new standardized graphics package, logo and news 
theme (Fox Affiliate News Theme by OSI Music) that was used by Fox's other 
owned-and-operated stations and select affiliates, during that evening's 
9:00 p.m. newscast. A new set and weather center (replacing one built in 
1998) was also introduced (the old news desk was donated to Southern Illinois 
University Carbondale, with the old weather center donated to the University 
of Missouri–St. Louis). In December 2008, KPLR temporarily relocated its 
newscasts to KTVI's now-former Clayton-Tamm/Dogtown studios as KPLR's facility 
was being remodeled to accommodate both KPLR and KTVI's newscasts;[16] 
KTVI moved production of its newscasts to a temporary set in January 2009, 
in order for crews dismantle and move the station's existing news set to 
KPLR's Maryland Heights facility. On February 15, 2009, KTVI began broadcasting 
local newscasts in high definition from its new Maryland Heights studio, 
accompanied by a new graphics package. The set was updated with several 
elements added to better fit the new graphics and due to the conversion 
to HD, while removing the city skyline backdrop in favor of a blue background. 
In January 2010, KTVI expanded its weekday morning newscast to six hours 
from 4:00 to 10:00 a.m. (despite the expansion, the station retained its 
11:00 a.m. newscast). On December 23, 2011, KTVI/KPLR opened a news bureau 
in the newly renovated Peabody Opera House in downtown St. Louis, to better 
serve the downtown and eastern portion of the St. Louis metropolitan area. 
On January 28, 2015, KTVI/KPLR introduced a new combined set with LED lighting, 
two video walls (one replacing the weather green screen), and a new anchor 
desk. Both stations now share the set (but KPLR uses a separate Weather 
center). They also introduced new graphics and music package for both stations 
the same day.[17] On January 18, 2016, KTVI became the first station in 
the Central time zone to launch a 11:00 pm weeknight newscast hosted by 
