Kuo Tai-yuan, (Chinese: 郭泰源; pinyin: Guō Tàiyuán; Wade–Giles: Kuo1 Tai4 
Yüan2; Japanese: かく たいげん (Kaku Taigen); born March 20, 1962), is a retired 
Taiwanese NPB baseball pitcher and currently a baseball coach. With 117 
wins accumulated during his 13 seasons in the Seibu Lions, Kuo set the 
record of being the international player who achieves most wins in the 
NPB history, and is widely regarded as the greatest Taiwanese pitcher before 
Chien-Ming Wang (Both of them plus Hong-Chih Kuo and Chin-Lung Hu are all 
Tainan City natives). Kuo was born in Tainan City, Taiwan. Originally a 
shortstop, he started to practice pitching in high school and immediately 
became well known for his high quality fastball and slider. In the 1983 
Chinese Taipei versus South Korea match in Asian Baseball Championship, 
Kuo did not allow a run to score during 17 consecutive innings, while his 
fastballs clocked up to 154 km/h (96 mph). He finally won the game and 
helped Chinese Taipei qualify for the 1984 Summer Olympics. In the 1984 
Olympics preliminary round against the United States, Kuo pitched up to 
158 km/h (98 mph) and allowed only 2 runs (one earned run) during his complete 
game effort, rightfully earning the nickname "The Oriental Express". However, 
Chinese Taipei eventually lost to team USA, which was studded with Will 
Clark, Mark McGwire and the like. Kuo later pitched in the semifinal round 
against Japan match, allowing one run in 4.2 innings. Kuo's excellent performance 
drew special attention from the Seibu Lions, and he signed with the club 
after the 1984 Summer Olympics. As a rookie, Kuo immediately gained a position 
in Seibu Lion's starting rotation and no-hit the Nippon Ham Fighters on 
June 4, 1985, less than 2 months after his debut, and is the first international 
player to achieve so in the Pacific League history. Kuo's other notable 
achievements during his NPB career included: Career Statistics: Kuo finally 
retired by the end of 1997 season after he suffered long time wound which 
cost him a vacant season. Shortly after Kuo's retirement a poll in the 
Seibu Lions' official website unanimously voted Kuo as the most popular 
international player in the Seibu Lions history. After retiring from Seibu 
Lions, the Taiwan Major League(TML) immediately hired Kuo as "senior technical 
consultant" until the league's collapse in early 2003. Meantime he introduced 
his former Seibu teammates Takehiro Ishii and Hisanobu Watanabe to join 
TML, originally as players and later as coaches. He also acted as go-between 
to help then young Hsu Ming-Chieh and Chang Chih-chia join Seibu Lions, 
following his steps. After a disappointing 2003 in which he was temporarily 
jobless and suffered marital crisis(as revealed in the "Personal Life" 
section later), in 2004 he started to head coach the Macoto Cobras until 
the end of 2005 season. During his 2 seasons with the Cobras Kuo accumulated 
a 93 wins, 97 loses, and 17 ties performance. In the 2005 Taiwan Series 
the Cobras were swept by the Sinon Bulls 0-4 and Kuo resigned right after 
the fiasco, addressing that "I would like to spend more time with my family". 
He later introduced Macoto Cobras players Lin En-yu and Lin Ying-Chieh 
to join Tohoku Rakuten Golden Eagles. On February 15, 2007, Kuo was appointed 
as the head coach of the Chinese Taipei national baseball team by the Chinese 
Taipei Baseball Association. His tasks included the 2007 Baseball World 
Cup and 2007 Asian Baseball Championships. However the Chinese Taipei national 
baseball team performed poorly in both tournaments and he was exempted 
from the post on December 15, 2007. Kuo married Taiwanese model and actress 
Chang Chiung-tzu (張瓊姿, also credited as Zhang Qiuzi by Chinese media) in 
December 1993. After their marriage, Chang temporarily gave up her acting 
career in Taiwan to live with Kuo in Japan until his retirement late in 
1997. Together, they had 2 daughters born in 1997 and 1999. However their 
relationship was badly damaged when Apple Daily (Taiwan) revealed Chang's 
extramarital affair with local fitness coach Pan Ruo-di (潘若迪) in May 2003. 
For several years this couple had been in separation and were repeatedly 
reported to have agreed to divorce, until their mutual announcement that 
they had mended their relationship and would not divorce early in 2007. 
