Kurt Anthony Bevacqua (/bᵻˈvɑːkwə/; born January 23, 1947) is a former 
Major League Baseball player best remembered for his performance in the 
1984 World Series. A career back-up infielder with a .236 career batting 
average, he rose to the occasion with two home runs and a .412 batting 
average as the San Diego Padres' designated hitter in the fall classic.[1] 
He also played for the Mayaguez Indians in the Puerto Rican Professional 
Baseball League from 1977 to 1981. Bevacqua was originally drafted by the 
New York Mets in the 32nd round of the 1966 Major League Baseball Draft 
and the Atlanta Braves in the sixth round of the January Secondary phase 
of the 1967 Major League Baseball Draft, but did not sign with either team. 
After leading Miami Dade College to the FJCC baseball tournament,[2] he 
finally signed with the Cincinnati Reds, who selected him in the twelfth 
round of the secondary phase of the June 1967 draft. He was immediately 
a utility player, playing each infield position and the outfield while 
in the Reds' farm system. He was traded to the Cleveland Indians for outfielder 
Buddy Bradford on May 8, 1971, and made his big league debut shortly afterwards.[3] 
Though he batted just .204 his rookie season, his versatility on the field 
proved valuable to the Indians. He appeared in 55 games, playing second, 
third, shortstop and both corner outfield positions, and earned the nickname 
"Dirty Kurt" for routinely having the dirtiest uniform on the team.[4] 
Bevacqua spent most of the 1972 season with the Portland Beavers of the 
Pacific Coast League, where he batted .313 with nine home runs and 72 runs 
batted in. He returned to the Indians that September, but batted just .114 
in nineteen games. After the season, he was traded to the Kansas City Royals 
for pitcher Mike Hedlund.[5] Bevacqua drove in a career high forty runs 
backing up Paul Schaal at third base in 1973. After the season, he was 
traded with Ed Kirkpatrick and minor leaguer Winston Cole to the Pittsburgh 
Pirates for Nelson Briles and Fernando González,[6] but after a short, 
turbulent stay in Pittsburgh, he rejoined the Royals midway through the 
1974 season.[7] The following Spring, Bevacqua was acquired by the Milwaukee 
Brewers as insurance for Don Money at third base, as Money had been experiencing 
chronic arm problems.[8] Though Money is a third baseman, the highlight 
of Bevacqua's season came while playing second. During a 4-0 loss to his 
former team on May 11, 1975, Bevacqua got into an altercation with George 
Brett at second base causing both benches to clear.[9] His other most memorable 
moment with the Brewers had even less to do with baseball. He is the 1975 
Joe Garagiola/Bazooka Bubble gum blowing Champion.[10] Topps baseball card 
#564 in the 1976 set attests to this feat. He remained with the Brewers 
through May of the 1976 season. After which, he was reassigned to the Spokane 
Indians of the Pacific Coast League, where he remained for the rest of 
the season. After Major League Baseball announced that it would be going 
to expansion for the 1977 season, Bevacqua openly admitted that he was 
looking forward to the opportunity to join an expansion club, though he 
was still a member of the Brewers' organization.[11] His dream came to 
fruition on October 22, 1976 when he became the fourth member of the Seattle 
Mariners, who purchased his contract from the Brewers two weeks before 
the expansion draft.[12] He arrived at camp that Spring to compete for 
the shortstop job with Craig Reynolds, whom the club had acquired from 
the Pirates for relief pitcher Grant Jackson. Despite an exceptional Spring 
training in which he batted .467, Bevacqua was released. The team's explanation 
was that Reynolds proved himself the better fielder, and the club already 
had too many right-handed bats off the bench.[13] Furious over this decision, 
Bevacqua toyed with the idea of playing ball in Japan, but ultimately decided 
to sign a minor league deal with the Texas Rangers the day after the season 
started. Though he never played a regular season game with them, Bevacqua's 
1977 Topps card (#317) shows him in a Mariners uniform. Shortly before 
his release from the Mariners, Bevacqua was arrested near his New Berlin, 
Wisconsin home for driving without a license. He was given a $160 fine 
and a ten-day jail sentence, which he was allowed to serve after the season 
ended.[14] After batting .352 with nine home runs and 76 RBIs for the triple 
A Tucson Toros in the first half of the 1977 season, Bevacqua was called 
up to the majors for the second half, and immediately proved himself a 
valuable addition to the Rangers. He batted .333 with five home runs and 
28 RBIs mostly as a pinch hitter. He also disproved Seattle manager Darrell 
Johnson's assessment that he was a defensive liability as he committed 
just one error all season while playing five different positions on the 
field. In 1978, he hit a career high six home runs. After the season, he, 
Bill Fahey and disgruntled former Rookie of the Year Mike Hargrove were 
traded to the San Diego Padres for Oscar Gamble and Dave Roberts.[15] With 
the Padres, Bevacqua seemed to have finally found his home. Though he still 
did not have a regular position, he had a career high 346 plate appearances 
in 1979 filling in at second, third and the outfield. He was batting .268 
and on his way to a similar season in 1980 when the last place Padres went 
into rebuilding mode, and dealt Bevacqua to the Pirates for minor league 
prospects Luis Salazar and Rick Lancellotti.[16] Bevacqua's second tour 
of duty in Pittsburgh went no better than his first, and he was released 
by the club after a season and a half in which he was given just seventy 
at-bats and demoted to triple A during the 1981 season.[17] Perhaps the 
most memorable moment of his second stint with the Pirates occurred in 
Spring training, when he incited a bench-clearing brawl with the Detroit 
Tigers after Tigers pitcher Howard Bailey hit the Pirates' Bill Robinson 
in the face with a pitch.[18] He returned to the Padres in 1982, and remained 
in San Diego for the rest of his career. Shortly after returning to the 
Padres, Bevacqua became embroiled in a verbal feud with National League 
West rival Los Angeles Dodgers manager Tommy Lasorda. On June 30, Dodgers 
pitcher Tom Niedenfuer hit Joe Lefebvre with the next pitch after giving 
up a home run to Broderick Perkins to lead off the ninth.[19] Niedenfuer 
had imploded to blow a save the night before and allow the Padres to come 
back from a 4-0 deficit in the ninth. Niedenfuer was hit with a $500 fine 
by Major League Baseball for intentionally hitting Lefebvre. Afterwards, 
Bevacqua expressed the opinion to local press that "They ought to fine 
that fat little Italian, too. He ordered it," referring to Lasorda. To 
which, Lasorda responded with the following: For the record, Bevacqua had 
been batting .231 with two runs scored, two RBIs and two walks against 
the Dodgers up to that point in the season. He faced the Dodgers for two 
more series in September, and went one-for-fifteen. Over his career, he 
batted .220 with one home run and twelve RBIs against Tommy Lasorda's Dodgers. 
He was one-for-seven against the Dodgers with Walter Alston as manager. 
Though he wasn't even in the line-up for the day's game against the Atlanta 
Braves, he became the centerpiece of an August 12 brawl. Braves pitcher 
Pascual Perez hit Alan Wiggins with the very first pitch of the game. Padres 
pitcher Ed Whitson responded by pitching inside to Perez when he came to 
bat in the second inning. Home plate umpire Steve Rippley warned Whitson, 
but Whitson threw at him again in the fourth, regardless, causing both 
benches to clear and Whitson and Padres manager Dick Williams to get ejected. 
Eventually, Perez was hit by a pitch from Craig Lefferts, causing benches 
to again clear. The final brawl of the evening occurred in the ninth, when 
Graig Nettles, who'd homered in his previous at-bat, was hit by Donnie 
Moore leading off the inning. In total, both managers, both replacement 
managers, four pitchers and five position players were ejected from the 
game. After the ninth inning melee, a fan at Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium 
threw a beer at Bevacqua, causing Bevacqua to go into the stands after 
the fan. He was restrained by security guards. The rebuilding process the 
Padres began in 1980 culminated with a trip to the 1984 World Series. It 
was Bevacqua's first trip to the post-season, and though he'd batted just 
.200 with one home run and nine RBIs over the regular season, Dick Williams 
used Bevacqua as his designated hitter in all five games of the World Series.[21] 
With the Padres trailing the heavily favored Detroit Tigers 3-2 in game 
one of the series, Bevacqua hit a double to lead off the seventh inning. 
However, rather than having the tying run in scoring position with the 
heart of the line-up coming up, Bevacqua was out trying to stretch it into 
a triple.[22] The Tigers went on to win the game, 3-2, making something 
of a goat of Bevacqua.[23] Regardless, Williams stuck with Bevacqua for 
game two of the series, even moving him up from ninth to sixth in the line-up. 
The Padres were already down 3-1 to Dan Petry when Bevacqua led off the 
fourth with a base hit. After moving to third on a Garry Templeton single, 
he came around to score on a ground out by Bobby Brown. The score remained 
3-2 until the fifth inning, when Bevacqua hit a three run home run to put 
the Padres up by the final score of 5-3.[24] He batted a team-high .412 
and hit a second home run in the fifth and final game of the series.[25] 
Terry Kennedy hit the only Padres home run in the World Series other than 
Bevacqua's two.[26] To this date, the Game two win remains the franchise's 
lone World Series victory. When the Padres released Bevacqua during Spring 
training 1986,[27] he chose to retire rather than try to catch on with 
another club. His performance in the 1984 World Series has provided him 
with an enduring celebrity status in San Diego, which he has used to benefit 
St. Madeleine Sophie’s Center’s Haute with Heart charity to benefit programs 
for adults with developmental disabilities among other charities.[28] Bevacqua 
was also featured on an episode of FOX's King of the Hill. In the episode 
he was a ringer brought in to defeat Strickland Propane's softball team. 
