Kyle Rodney Kendrick (born August 26, 1984) is an American professional 
baseball pitcher who is currently a free agent. He has played in Major 
League Baseball (MLB) for the Philadelphia Phillies and Colorado Rockies. 
He was born in Houston, Texas, but attended high school in Mount Vernon, 
Washington. While growing up, he was greatly influenced by his father, 
from whom he developed his composure when pitching. Upon graduation, he 
turned down a scholarship to play college football, instead signing a contract 
to begin his professional baseball career in the Phillies' organization. 
After a slow ascent through the lower levels of the Phillies' minor league 
system, he made his MLB debut in 2007, and was a member of the starting 
rotation of the 2008 World Series Champion team. Subsequently, he was demoted 
to the minor leagues to develop secondary pitches. From 2010 until 2012, 
his role on the big-league squad frequently fluctuated, but overall, was 
an underrated member of the pitching staff, according to several writers. 
Nevertheless, he drew the ire of Phillies fans, who were tired of his inconsistency 
during the course of his career. After a successful 2012 campaign, however, 
he firmly implanted himself in the Phillies' starting rotation before the 
2013 season. Again in 2013, though, he was inconsistent, and entering 2014, 
some suggested he should be traded to another team. His pitching style 
is characterized by his poise on the mound that allows him to "go with 
the flow" of the game. He predominantly throws a sinker, and mixes in some 
secondary pitches in which he lacks confidence. He is married, has two 
children, and lives in Snohomish County, Washington during the offseason. 
Born in Houston, Texas,[1] Kendrick was a three-sport standout in football, 
basketball, and baseball at Mount Vernon High School in Mount Vernon, Washington.[2] 
Throughout his adolescent athletic career, it was Kendrick's father Maury 
from whom Kendrick drew guidance and direction, particularly on how to 
conduct oneself during a game.[3][4] Maury advised Kendrick to show as 
little emotion as possible when pitching, and is the one from whom Kendrick 
draws his composure while pitching.[3] Kendrick and his father discuss 
pitching before and after every one of Kendrick's starts, which Maury watches 
from Seattle, Washington, and in 2013, Maury was part of the Phillies' 
Fathers Day celebration, a celebration of his guidance of Kendrick.[5] 
The Phillies drafted Kendrick in the seventh round of the 2003 Major League 
Baseball Draft, which made Kendrick reject a football scholarship offer 
to Washington State University. He began his career in the lower levels 
of the minor league system, and struggled mightily.[2] A feature article 
in Phillies magazine noted, His first three seasons, in the Gulf Coast 
League, and various Class A stops, weren't encouraging. He was a combined 
10–28 with a 5.27 ERA (earned run average). He allowed 356 hits in 286.2 
innings. There were some steps forward, some steps back Early in his career, 
many within the organization questioned his work ethic and maturity, which 
they thought may have contributed to his underachievement. In 2006, however, 
the Phillies "patience was ... rewarded"; pitching for the Lakewood BlueClaws 
for the third consecutive season, he earned Phillies Minor League Pitcher 
of the Month accolades for May, thus warranting a promotion to the Clearwater 
Threshers. In 20 starts with Clearwater, he posted a 3.53 ERA, among the 
best in the Florida State League. This performance as well as the fact 
that he spent significant time working out and focusing on mechanical improvement 
allayed the previous fears of poor work ethic. Ultimately, 2007 would be 
his last in the low levels of the Phillies' minor leagues, as he began 
the season with the Double-A (AA) Reading Phillies, and finished it with 
the big league club.[2][6] Despite several options at Triple-A (AAA), when 
Freddy García got hurt, Pat Gillick promoted Kendrick to the major leagues, 
which drew skepticism, as Kendrick was just 22 years old, and had not pitched 
particularly well for Reading. However, according to Steve Noworyta, Phillies 
assistant director of player development, Kendrick's "mound presence and 
his maturity", as well as the fact that "nothing really seemed to bother 
him" contributed to his promotion.[2] His MLB debut came on June 13 against 
the Chicago White Sox at Citizens Bank Park. He pitched six innings and 
gave up three runs, receiving a no-decision in an 8–4 Phillies' victory.[7] 
He pitched the second game of the 2007 National League Division Series 
against the Colorado Rockies, which the Phillies lost, en route to being 
swept in the series.[8] He finished the season with a 10–4 win–loss record 
and a 3.87 ERA in 121 MLB innings pitched.[1] He came in fifth place, ultimately 
losing to Ryan Braun, in 2007 National League Rookie of the Year Award 
voting.[9] Before the 2008 season, Kendrick was a victim of an "elaborate 
practical joke" executed by Brett Myers that had Kendrick convinced he 
had been traded away to Japan. During the season, Kendrick's performance 
slipped; he posted a 5.49 ERA in 30 starts.[1][2] Despite his relative 
ineffectiveness, the Phillies won the 2008 World Series, and though he 
was left off the postseason roster, Kendrick received a World Series ring 
and co-authored a diary from the series.[10] Phillies pitching coach Rich 
Dubee attributed the decline to hitters discerning that Kendrick threw 
predominantly a sinker, and almost always in the strike zone, thus fostering 
predictability for hitters. As such, he spent the majority of the 2009 
season in the minor leagues, working on developing his change up, which 
proved to be an arduous process. Ultimately, after learning a new grip 
from Justin Lehr, he had a eureka moment during a bullpen session in 2009; 
he developed the pitch, and made it back to the major leagues "for good" 
near the conclusion of the season.[2] The Phillies acquired Roy Halladay 
prior to the 2010 season, and during spring training, Kendrick sought the 
mentorship of Halladay, whom he aspired to emulate during his high school 
career. Halladay willingly obliged, and teammates endearingly referred 
to Kendrick as "Little Roy" due to the amount of time he spent working 
with Halladay.[2] Despite initially losing a competition for the fifth 
spot in the Phillies starting rotation during spring training to Jamie 
Moyer, an injury to Joe Blanton thrust Kendrick into the fifth spot in 
the Phillies rotation, the fourth consecutive year during which he had 
held that role for at least a short time.[11] After a decent first half 
of the 2010 season (at the end of June, he had a 4–4 record with a 3.23 
ERA).[12] Kendrick was briefly demoted to the Lehigh Valley IronPigs (AAA), 
but did not make any starts there, as Moyer's season ended due to injury, 
causing Kendrick's recall.[6] Overall, he earned 11 wins, which tied a 
career high, and started 31 games, which set a new career high, while, 
in total, posting an 11–10 record with a 4.73 ERA in 180 2⁄3 innings pitched.[1] 
Pat Gallen, editor in chief of Phillies Nation, opined that Kendrick's 
performance indicated he would never exceed being an average, "run-of-the-mill 
starting pitcher", who would never exceed that role.[11] At the conclusion 
of the season, Kendrick and the Phillies avoided salary arbitration by 
agreeing to a one-year, US$2,450,000 contract.[13] Kendrick's inconsistency 
continued in 2011, when he "flip-flopped between the rotation and the bullpen 
all season", performing as a spot starter and long reliever.[6][14][15] 
His starts came during injuries to Blanton and Roy Oswalt, the latter of 
whom was a member of the "phour aces" that comprised the front-end of the 
Phillies' starting rotation (Oswalt, Cliff Lee, Roy Halladay, and Cole 
Hamels).[16] When making those spot starts, he was able to "keep the team 
in the game".[17] During the season, he improved against left-handed hitters, 
performed strongly against divisional opponents, and posted a career-best 
3.22 ERA.[6] Overall, he totaled 34 appearances, 15 of which were starts, 
and recorded an 8–6 record in 114 2⁄3 innings pitched.[1] Again eligible 
for arbitration, this year, he signed a one-year, US$3,585,000 pact with 
Philadelphia.[18] "Kyle Kendrick is perhaps the most underrated player 
on the Phillies roster. You’ve heard the narrative surrounding him: year 
in and year out, he fills multiple roles for the pitching staff, usually 
doing a satisfactory job, and some nights doing a fantastic job, yet he 
still is the target of fan vitriol." Once again, Kendrick was not a member 
of the opening day starting rotation, as Blanton and Vance Worley rounded 
out the final two spots after Hamels, Halladay, and Lee.[20] However, once 
again, he joined the rotation due to injury, this season to Worley. He 
was a member of the rotation from the end of April to the beginning of 
July, in a relief role until the beginning of August, and then in the rotation 
for the remainder of the season. Ultimately, Kendrick started 25 games 
of a career-high 37 appearances.[6] He was especially strong after the 
all-star game, posting a 3.15 ERA and nine wins, the latter of which was 
tied for first in the National League. He also continued his success against 
NL East teams, posting a 3.25 ERA against them. Though he had much success, 
he remained inconsistent, playing "the role Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde personified" 
– in 17 of his starts, he allowed two or fewer earned runs, and posted 
a combined 1.73 ERA in those starts, while in the eight starts during which 
he surrendered more than two earned runs, he posted a 10.40 ERA.[6][19] 
Thanks to his strong finish in 2012, Kendrick entered spring training assured 
of a spot in the Phillies' Opening Day starting rotation for the first 
time in five years[21][22] and spent his first full season exclusively 
a member of the major league starting rotation. His 2013 season took the 
opposite trajectory of his 2012 campaign; he held a 4–1 record with a 2.47 
ERA in his first eight starts, while he posted a 6–12 record with a 5.65 
ERA in his final 22 starts.[6] Some suggested that because Kendrick is 
a contact pitcher (i.e., he focuses on getting outs via batters hitting 
the ball rather than striking out), his career-worst batting average on 
balls in play indicated horrendous defense was the primary reason for his 
downturn, not necessarily poor pitching. However, both were likely contributing 
factors.[23] On September 18, he was scratched from his scheduled start 
due to right rotator cuff tendinitis, which may have contributed to his 
poor pitching down the stretch.[24] It was the first time in Kendrick's 
career he missed a start due to injury. He had initially planned on making 
his next start, but the Phillies announced on September 20 that Kendrick 
had been shut down for the remainder of the season after receiving a second 
opinion on the injury. The team placed him on the disabled list for his 
first career stint and Zach Miner took his spot in the rotation.[6][25] 
Overall, he posted 10–13 with a 4.70 ERA in 182 innings pitched.[1] At 
the conclusion of the 2013 season, there was suggestion that the Phillies 
should re-sign Kendrick insofar as he would serve as a useful player to 
trade around the trade deadline for a prospect or two, as durable, mediocre 
starters are always in demand around that time.[26] Contradictorily, one 
scout suggested that because he throws strikes with great frequency and 
has a propensity to induce groundballs, he would be a strong value option 
for the Phillies.[27] Ultimately, the Phillies agreed with the latter, 
and signed him to a one-year, US$7,675,000 contract in the final year before 
he is eligible to be a free agent.[28] Kendrick preposterously struggled 
all season in the first inning, entering his final home start of the season 
with a 9.31 ERA in the first inning.[29] Overall, he pitched a career-high 
199 innings, but posted a 4.61 ERA, second-worst among qualifying NL starting 
pitchers.[30] The prevailing consensus was that despite a sentimental attachment 
to Philadelphia, generally being liked by Phillies' fans, and solid contributions 
to the back of the Phillies' rotation since arriving in the major leagues, 
he was unlikely to return to Philadelphia for 2015, but would be a "smart 
pickup" by a contending team.[30][31][32][33] Kendrick signed a one-year 
deal with the Colorado Rockies on February 4, 2015.[34] He was later named 
the Rockies' opening-day starter for the 2015 season. On December 31, 2015, 
Kendrick signed a minor league contract with the Atlanta Braves.[35] In 
addition, Kendrick received a non-roster invite to spring training. He 
was released on March 12, 2016.[36] He signed with the Los Angeles Angels 
of Anaheim, and spent the 2016 season with the Salt Lake Bees of the Class 
AAA Pacific Coast League.[37] When Kendrick was first promoted to the major 
leagues, he relied almost exclusively on a sinker, but as he became more 
predictable, he had to adjust by adding pitches, including the changeup, 
cutter, and curveball that now comprise his repertoire.[38] He throws from 
a slightly deceptive, deliberate windup, and his sinker ranges anywhere 
from 87 miles per hour (140 km/h) to 93 miles per hour (150 km/h). He lacks 
requisite confidence in his secondary pitches, however, which contributes 
to batters being able to consistently make solid contact against him.[39][40] 
Although they have improved throughout his career, Kendrick has had poor 
peripheral statistics, including WAR, FIP and BABIP. Because he manages 
to stay competitive on the mound and do his job, most assert that the poor 
peripheral statistics do not matter for him.[17][23][41][42] When pitching, 
he maintains constant equanimity and seeks to avoid showing emotion, a 
trait he learned from his father and has embodied since playing Little 
League Baseball. He credits his composure as the reason he is able to consistently 
"go with the flow", and avoid being flustered, even in adverse situations.[3] 
In 2009, Kendrick became engaged to Survivor contestant Stephenie LaGrossa.[43] 
They were married at the Silverado Resort in Napa, California, on November 
13, 2010.[44] Kendrick and LaGrossa had their first child, a daughter named 
Sophia Marguerite on September 3, 2011, and their second child, a son named 
Kyle Jr., on July 30, 2013.[6] In March 2011, his home was burglarized; 
among the stolen items was his World Series ring.[45] Subsequently, the 
ring was found in a swampy area of Bothell, Washington, by Snohomish County 
Sheriff's deputies.[46] His pitching intro music is "Radioactive" by Imagine 
