Kyoto (京都市, Kyōto-shi?, pronounced [kʲjoːꜜto.ɕi] ( listen); UK /kɪˈoʊtoʊ/, 
US /kiˈoʊ-/, or /ˈkjoʊ-/[1]) is a city located in the central part of the 
island of Honshu, Japan. It has a population close to 1.5 million. Formerly 
the Imperial capital of Japan for more than one thousand years, it is now 
the capital city of Kyoto Prefecture located in the Kansai region, as well 
as a major part of the Kyoto-Osaka-Kobe metropolitan area. Kyoto is also 
known as the thousand-year capital. In Japanese, the city has been called 
Kyō (京), Miyako (都), or Kyō no Miyako (京の都). In the 11th century, the city 
was renamed Kyoto ("capital city"), after the Chinese word for capital 
city, jingdu (京都).[2] After the city of Edo was renamed Tokyo (東京, meaning 
"Eastern Capital") in 1868, and the seat of the Emperor was transferred 
there, Kyoto was known for a short time as Saikyō (西京, meaning "Western 
Capital"). Obsolete spellings for the city's name include Kioto, Miaco 
and Meaco. Another term commonly used to refer to the city in the pre-modern 
period was Keishi (京師), meaning "metropolis" or "capital".[3] Although 
archaeological evidence suggests human settlement in Kyoto began as early 
as the Paleolithic period,[4] relatively little is known about human activity 
in the area before the 6th century AD, around which time the Shimogamo 
Shrine is believed to have been established. During the 8th century, when 
powerful Buddhist clergy became involved in the affairs of the Imperial 
government, Emperor Kammu chose to relocate the capital in order to distance 
it from the clerical establishment in Nara. His last choice for the site 
was the village of Uda, in the Kadono district of Yamashiro Province.[5] 
The new city, Heian-kyō (平安京?, "tranquility and peace capital"), a scaled 
replica of the then Tang capital Chang'an,[6] became the seat of Japan's 
imperial court in 794, beginning the Heian period of Japanese history. 
Although military rulers established their governments either in Kyoto 
(Muromachi shogunate) or in other cities such as Kamakura (Kamakura shogunate) 
and Edo (Tokugawa shogunate), Kyoto remained Japan's capital until the 
transfer of the imperial court to Tokyo in 1869 at the time of the Imperial 
Restoration. The city suffered extensive destruction in the Ōnin War of 
1467-1477, and did not really recover until the mid-16th century. Battles 
between samurai factions spilled into the streets, and came to involve 
the court nobility (kuge) and religious factions as well. Nobles' mansions 
were transformed into fortresses, deep trenches dug throughout the city 
for defense and as firebreaks, and numerous buildings burned. The city 
has not seen such widespread destruction since. In the late 16th century, 
Toyotomi Hideyoshi reconstructed the city by building new streets to double 
the number of north-south streets in central Kyoto, creating rectangle 
blocks superseding ancient square blocks. Hideyoshi also built earthwork 
walls called odoi (御土居?) encircling the city. Teramachi Street in central 
Kyoto is a Buddhist temple quarter where Hideyoshi gathered temples in 
the city. Throughout the Edo period, the economy of the city flourished 
as one of three major cities in Japan, the others being Osaka and Edo. 
The Hamaguri rebellion of 1864 burnt down 28,000 houses in the city, and 
the subsequent move of the Emperor to Tokyo in 1869 weakened the economy. 
The modern city of Kyoto was formed on April 1, 1889. The construction 
of Lake Biwa Canal in 1890 is one measure taken to revive the city. The 
population of the city exceeded one million in 1932.[7] There was some 
consideration by the United States of targeting Kyoto with an atomic bomb 
at the end of World War II because, as an intellectual center of Japan, 
it had a population "better able to appreciate the significance of the 
weapon."[8] In the end, at the insistence of Henry L. Stimson, Secretary 
of War in the Roosevelt and Truman administrations, the city was removed 
from the list of targets and replaced by Nagasaki. The city was largely 
spared from conventional bombing as well, although small-scale air raids 
did result in casualties. As a result, the Imperial City (Emeritus), of 
Kyoto is one of the few Japanese cities that still have an abundance of 
prewar buildings, such as the traditional townhouses known as machiya. 
However, modernization is continually breaking down the traditional Kyoto 
in favor of newer architecture, such as the Kyōto Station complex. Kyoto 
became a city designated by government ordinance on September 1, 1956. 
In 1997, Kyoto hosted the conference that resulted in the protocol on greenhouse 
gas emissions that bears the city's name. Kyoto is located in a valley, 
part of the Yamashiro (or Kyoto) Basin, in the eastern part of the mountainous 
region known as the Tamba highlands. The Yamashiro Basin is surrounded 
on three sides by mountains known as Higashiyama, Kitayama and Nishiyama, 
with a height just above 1,000 metres (3,281 ft) above sea level. This 
interior positioning results in hot summers and cold winters. There are 
three rivers in the basin, the Ujigawa to the south, the Katsuragawa to 
the west, and the Kamogawa to the east. Kyoto City takes up 17.9% of the 
land in the prefecture with an area of 827.9 square kilometres (319.7 sq mi). 
The original city was arranged in accordance with traditional Chinese feng 
shui following the model of the ancient Chinese capital of Chang'an (present-day 
Xi'an). The Imperial Palace faced south, resulting in Ukyō (the right sector 
of the capital) being on the west while Sakyō (the left sector) is on the 
east. The streets in the modern-day wards of Nakagyō, Shimogyō, and Kamigyō-ku 
still follow a grid pattern. Today, the main business district is located 
to the south of the old Imperial Palace, with the less-populated northern 
area retaining a far greener feel. Surrounding areas do not follow the 
same grid pattern as the center of the city, though streets throughout 
Kyoto share the distinction of having names. Kyoto sits atop a large natural 
water table that provides the city with ample freshwater wells. Due to 
large-scale urbanization, the amount of rain draining into the table is 
dwindling and wells across the area are drying at an increasing rate. Historically, 
Kyoto was the largest city in Japan, later surpassed by Osaka and Edo (Tokyo) 
towards the end of the 16th century. In the pre-war years, Kyoto traded 
places with Kobe and Nagoya ranking as the 4th and 5th largest city. In 
1947, it went back to being 3rd. By 1960 it had fallen to 5th again, and 
by 1990 it had fallen to 7th, in 2015 it is now 9th. Kyoto has a humid 
subtropical climate (Köppen Cfa), featuring a marked seasonal variation 
in temperature and precipitation. Summers are hot and humid, but winters 
are relatively cold with occasional snowfall. Kyoto's rain season begins 
around the middle of June and lasts until the end of July, yielding to 
a hot and sunny latter half of the summer. Kyoto, along with most of the 
Pacific coast and central areas of Japan is prone to typhoons during September 
and October. The directly elected executive mayor in Kyoto as of 2013[update] 
is Daisaku Kadokawa, an independent supported by Democratic Party of Japan, 
Liberal Democratic Party, New Komeito Party, Your Party and Social Democratic 
Party. The legislative city assembly has 69 elected members. Kyoto has 
eleven wards (区, ku?). Together, they make up the city of Kyoto. Like other 
cities in Japan, Kyoto has a single mayor and a city council. Although 
ravaged by wars, fires, and earthquakes during its eleven centuries as 
the imperial capital, Kyoto was spared from much of the destruction of 
World War II. It was removed from the atomic bomb target list (which it 
had headed) by the personal intervention of Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson, 
as Stimson wanted to save this cultural center which he knew from his honeymoon 
and later diplomatic visits.[10][11] With its 2,000 religious places – 
1,600 Buddhist temples and 400 Shinto shrines, as well as palaces, gardens 
and architecture intact – it is one of the best preserved cities in Japan. 
Among the most famous temples in Japan are Kiyomizu-dera, a magnificent 
wooden temple supported by pillars off the slope of a mountain; Kinkaku-ji, 
the Temple of the Golden Pavilion; Ginkaku-ji, the Temple of the Silver 
Pavilion; and Ryōan-ji, famous for its rock garden. The Heian Jingū is 
a Shinto shrine, built in 1895, celebrating the Imperial family and commemorating 
the first and last emperors to reside in Kyoto. Three special sites have 
connections to the imperial family: the Kyoto Gyoen area including the 
Kyoto Imperial Palace and Sento Imperial Palace, homes of the Emperors 
of Japan for many centuries; Katsura Imperial Villa, one of the nation's 
finest architectural treasures; and Shugaku-in Imperial Villa, one of its 
best Japanese gardens. In addition, the temple of Sennyu-ji houses the 
tombs of the emperors from Shijō to Kōmei. Other sites in Kyoto include 
Arashiyama, the Gion and Pontochō geisha quarters, the Philosopher's Walk, 
and the canals which line some of the older streets. The "Historic Monuments 
of Ancient Kyoto" are listed by the UNESCO as a World Heritage Site. These 
include the Kamo Shrines (Kami and Shimo), Kyō-ō-Gokokuji (Tō-ji), Kiyomizu-dera, 
Daigo-ji, Ninna-ji, Saihō-ji (Kokedera), Tenryū-ji, Rokuon-ji (Kinkaku-ji), 
Jishō-ji (Ginkaku-ji), Ryōan-ji, Hongan-ji, Kōzan-ji and the Nijō Castle, 
primarily built by the Tokugawa shoguns. Other sites outside the city are 
also on the list. Kyoto is renowned for its abundance of delicious Japanese 
foods and cuisine. The special circumstances of Kyoto as a city away from 
the sea and home to many Buddhist temples resulted in the development of 
a variety of vegetables peculiar to the Kyoto area (京野菜, kyō-yasai?). Japan's 
television and film industry has its center in Kyoto. Many jidaigeki, action 
films featuring samurai, were shot at Toei Uzumasa Eigamura.[12] A film 
set and theme park in one, Eigamura features replicas of traditional Japanese 
buildings which are used for jidaigeki. Among the sets are a replica of 
the old Nihonbashi (the bridge at the entry to Edo), a traditional courthouse, 
a Meiji Period police box and part of the former Yoshiwara red-light district. 
Actual film shooting takes place occasionally, and visitors are welcome 
to observe the action. The dialect spoken in Kyoto is known as Kyō-kotoba 
or Kyōto-ben, a constituent dialect of the Kansai dialect. When Kyoto was 
the capital of Japan, the Kyoto dialect was the de facto standard Japanese 
and influenced the development of Tokyo dialect, the modern standard Japanese. 
Famous Kyoto expressions are a polite copula dosu, an honorific verb ending 
-haru, a greeting phrase okoshi-yasu "welcome", etc. The key industry of 
Kyoto is information technology and electronics: the city is home to the 
headquarters of Nintendo, Intelligent Systems, Dainippon Screen,[13] TOSE, 
OMRON,[14] Kyocera, Shimadzu Corp.,[15] Rohm,[16] Horiba,[17] Nidec Corporation,[18] 
Nichicon,[19] Nissin Electric,[20] and GS Yuasa. Tourism also forms a large 
base of Kyoto's economy. The city's cultural heritages are constantly visited 
by school groups from across Japan, and many foreign tourists also stop 
in Kyoto. In 2014, the city government announced that a record number of 
tourists had visited Kyoto,[21] and it was chosen as the world's best city 
by U.S. travel magazine.[22] Traditional Japanese crafts are also major 
industry of Kyoto, most of which are run by artisans in small plants. Kyoto's 
kimono weavers are particularly renowned, and the city remains the premier 
center of kimono manufacturing. Such businesses, vibrant in past centuries, 
have declined in recent years as sales of traditional goods stagnate. Sake 
brewing is Kyoto's traditional industry. Gekkeikan and Takara Holdings 
are major sake brewers headquartered in Kyoto. Other notable businesses 
headquartered in Kyoto includes Aiful, Ishida, MK,[23] Nissen Holdings, 
Oh-sho, Sagawa Express, Volks and Wacoal. The concentration of population 
to the capital city area is 55% which is highest among the prefectures. 
The economic difference between the coastal area and inland area including 
Kyoto basin is significant. Greater Kyoto, Kyoto Metropolitan Employment 
Area, (2.7 million people) had a total GDP of US$ 115.3 million in 2010.[24][25] 
Home to 37 institutions of higher education, Kyoto is one of the academic 
centers in Japan.[26]Kyoto University is considered to be one of the top 
national universities nationwide. According to The Times Higher Education 
Supplement top-ranking university, Kyoto University is ranked the second 
university in Japan after University of Tokyo, and 25th overall in the 
world as of 2010[update].[27] The Kyoto Institute of Technology is also 
among the most famous universities in Japan and is considered to be one 
of the best universities for architecture and design in the country. Popular 
private universities, such as Doshisha University and Ritsumeikan University 
are also located in the city. Kyoto also has a unique higher education 
network called the Consortium of Universities in Kyoto, which consists 
of three national, three public (prefectural and municipal), and 45 private 
universities, as well as the city and five other organizations. The combination 
does not offer a degree, but offers the courses as part of a degree at 
participating universities.[28] In addition to Japanese universities and 
colleges, selected American universities also operates in the city for 
education and research. Kyoto Consortium for Japanese Studies (KCJS) is 
a combination of 14 American universities that sponsors a two-semester 
academic program for undergraduates who wish to do advanced work in Japanese 
language and cultural studies. The American university, Stanford University, 
operates a "Japan Center" in Kyoto.[29] Although Kyoto does not have its 
own airport, travelers can get to the city via Kansai International Airport 
and Osaka International Airport in Osaka Prefecture. The Haruka Express 
operated by JR West carries passengers from Kansai Airport to Kyoto Station 
in 73 minutes.[30] Osaka Airport Transport buses connect Itami Airport 
and Kyoto Station Hachijo Gate in 50 minutes and cost 1,280 yen for a one-way 
trip. Some buses go further, make stops at major hotels and terminals in 
downtown area. Kyoto's municipal bus network is extensive. Private carriers 
also operate within the city. Many tourists join commuters on the public 
buses, or take tour buses. Kyoto's buses have announcements in English 
and electronic signs with stops written in the Latin alphabet. Most city 
buses have a fixed fare. A one-day bus pass and a combined unlimited train 
and bus pass are also available. These are especially useful for visiting 
many different points of interest within Kyoto. The bus information center 
just outside the central station handles tickets and passes. The municipal 
transport company publishes a very useful leaflet called "Bus Navi." It 
contains a route map for the bus lines to most sights and fare information. 
This too is available at the information center in front of the main station. 
Buses operating on routes within the city, the region, and the nation stop 
at Kyoto Station. In addition to Kyoto Station, bus transfer is available 
at the intersections of Shijō Kawaramachi and Sanjō Keihan. The intersection 
of Karasuma Kitaōji to the north of downtown has a major bus terminal serving 
passengers who take the Karasuma Line running beneath Karasuma Street, 
Kyoto's main north-south street. Cycling is a very important form of personal 
transportation in the city. The geography and scale of the city are such 
that the city may be easily navigated on a bicycle. Bicycle theft is not 
common, but finding permitted bicycle parking areas can be difficult.[citation 
needed] Bicycles parked in non-permitted areas are impounded. The city 
is connected with other parts of Japan by the Meishin Expressway, which 
has two interchanges in the city: Kyoto Higashi (Kyoto East) in Yamashina-ku 
and Kyoto Minami (Kyoto South) in Fushimi-ku. The Kyoto-Jukan Expressway 
connects the city to northern regions of Kyoto Prefecture. The Daini Keihan 
Road is a new bypass (completed in 2010) to Osaka. Although Kyoto has fewer 
toll-highways than other comparable Japanese cities, it is served with 
dual and even triple-carriageway national roads. As of 2010[update], only 
8.2 kilometres (5.1 miles) of the Hanshin Expressway Kyoto Route is in 
operation.[31] There are nine national highways in the city of Kyoto: Route 
1, Route 8, Route 9, Route 24, Route 162, Route 171, Route 367, Route 477 
and Route 478. Just like other major cities in Japan, Kyoto is well served 
by rail transportation systems operated by several different companies 
and organizations. The city's main gateway terminal, Kyoto Station, which 
is one of the most popular stations in the country, connects The Tōkaidō 
Shinkansen bullet train Line (see below) with five JR West lines, a Kintetsu 
line and a municipal subway line. The Keihan, the Hankyu, and other rail 
networks also offer frequent services within the city and to other cities 
and suburbs in the Kinki region. The Kyoto Municipal Transportation Bureau 
operates the Kyoto Municipal Subway consisting of two lines: the Karasuma 
Line and the Tōzai Line. The Karasuma Line is colored green, and its stations 
are given numbers following the letter "K". The line has following stations, 
from north to south: Kokusaikaikan (terminal) and Matsugasaki in Sakyō-ku; 
Kitayama and Kitaōji in Kita-ku; Kuramaguchi and Imadegawa in Kamigyō-ku; 
Marutamachi and Karasuma Oike in Nakagyō-ku; Shijō, Gojō and Kyōto in Shimogyō-ku; 
Kujō and Jūjō in Minami-ku; and Kuinabashi and Takeda (terminal) in Fushimi-ku. 
Between Kitaōji and Jūjō, trains run beneath the north-south Karasuma Street 
(烏丸通, Karasuma-dori?), hence the name. They link to the other subway line, 
the Tozai Line, at Karasuma Oike. They also connect to the JR lines at 
Kyoto Station and the Hankyu Kyoto Line running cross-town beneath Shijō 
Street at the intersection of Shijō Karasuma, Kyoto's central business 
district. At Shijō Karasuma, the subway station is named Shijō, whereas 
Hankyu's station is called Karasuma. The Transportation Bureau and Kintetsu 
jointly operate through services, which continue to the Kintetsu Kyoto 
Line to Kintetsu Nara Station in Nara. The Karasuma Line and the Kintetsu 
Kyoto Line connect at Kyoto and Takeda. All the stations are located in 
the city proper. The Tōzai Line is coloured vermilion, and its stations 
are given numbers following the letter "T". This line runs from the southeastern 
area of the city, then east to west (i.e. tōzai in Japanese) through the 
Kyoto downtown area where trains run beneath the three east-west streets: 
Sanjō Street (三条通, Sanjō-dori?), Oike Street (御池通, Oike-dori?) and Oshikōji 
Street (押小路通, Oshikōji-dori?). The line has following stations, from east 
to west: Rokujizō (terminal) in Uji; Ishida and Daigo in Fushimi-ku; Ono, 
Nagitsuji, Higashino, Yamashina and Misasagi in Yamashina-ku; Keage, Higashiyama 
and Sanjō Keihan in Higashiyama-ku; Kyoto Shiyakusho-mae, Karasuma Oike, 
Nijōjō-mae, Nijō and Nishiōji Oike in Nakagyō-ku; and Uzumasa Tenjingawa 
(terminal) in Ukyō-ku. The Keihan Keishin Line has been integrated into 
this line, and thus Keihan provides through services from Hamaōtsu in the 
neighbouring city of Ōtsu, the capital of Shiga Prefecture. The Tōzai Line 
connects to the Keihan lines at Rokujizō, Yamashina, Misasagi and Sanjō 
Keihan, to the JR lines at Nijō, Yamashina and Rokujizō, and to the Keifuku 
Electric Railroad at Uzumasa Tenjingawa. All the stations except Rokujizō 
are located in Kyoto. The Tōkaidō Shinkansen operated by JR Central provides 
high-speed rail service linking Kyoto with Nagoya, Yokohama and Tokyo to 
the east of Kyoto and with nearby Osaka and points west on the San'yo Shinkansen, 
such as Kobe, Okayama, Hiroshima, Kitakyushu, and Fukuoka. The trip from 
Tokyo takes about two hours and twenty-two minutes. From Hakata in Fukuoka, 
Nozomi takes you to Kyoto in just over three hours. All trains including 
Nozomi stop at Kyoto Station, serving as a gateway to not only Kyoto Prefecture 
but also northeast Osaka, south Shiga and north Nara. There are a number 
of rivers, canals and other navigable waterways in Kyoto. The Seta and 
Uji rivers (Yodo River), Kamogawa and Katsura river flow through Kyoto. 
Lake Biwa Canal was a significant infrastructural development. In present 
days, however, the waterways are not used for passenger or goods transportation 
except for limited sightseeing purpose such as Hozugawa Kudari boat on 
the Hozu River and Jukkoku bune sightseeing tour boat in Fushimi-ku area. 
Kyoto contains roughly 2,000 temples and shrines.[32] About 20% of Japan's 
National Treasures and 14% of Important Cultural Properties exist in the 
city proper. The UNESCO World Heritage Site Historic Monuments of Ancient 
Kyoto (Kyoto, Uji and Otsu Cities) includes 17 locations in Kyoto, Uji 
in Kyoto Prefecture, and Ōtsu in Shiga Prefecture. The site was designated 
as World Heritage in 1994. Kamigamo Shrine Shimogamo Shrine Tō-ji Kiyomizu-dera 
Saihō-ji Tenryū-ji Kinkaku-ji Ryōan-ji Nishi Honganji Nijō Castle Daigo-ji 
Ginkaku-ji Ninna-ji Kōzan-ji Kyoto is well known for its traditional festivals 
which have been held for over 1000 years and are a major tourist attraction.[33] 
The first is the Aoi Matsuri on May 15. Two months later (July 1 to 31) 
is the Gion Matsuri known as one of the 3 great festivals of Japan, culminating 
in a massive parade on July 17. Kyoto marks the Bon Festival with the Gozan 
no Okuribi, lighting fires on mountains to guide the spirits home (August 
16). The October 22 Jidai Matsuri, Festival of the Ages, celebrates Kyoto's 
illustrious past. Gion Matsuri Aoi Matsuri Jidai Matsuri Gozan Okuribi 
In football, Kyoto is represented by Kyoto Sanga F.C. who won the Emperor's 
Cup in 2002, and rose to J. League's Division 1 in 2005. Kyoto Sanga has 
a long history as an amateur non-company club, although it was only with 
the advent of professionalization that it was able to compete in the Japanese 
top division. Amateur football clubs such as F.C. Kyoto BAMB 1993 and Kyoto 
Shiko Club (both breakaway factions of the original Kyoto Shiko club that 
became Kyoto Sanga) as well as unrelated AS Laranja Kyoto compete in the 
regional Kansai soccer league. Between 1951 and 1952 the Central League 
team Shochiku Robins played their franchised games at Kinugasa Ballpark 
(ja:衣笠球場, Kinugasa Kyujo?) in Kita-ku. In 2010, Nishikyogoku Stadium in 
Ukyo-ku became the home of a newly formed girls professional baseball team, 
the Kyoto Asto Dreams. Additionally, Kyoto's high school baseball teams 
are strong, with Heian and Toba in particular making strong showings recently 
at the annual tournament held in Koshien Stadium, Nishinomiya, near Osaka. 
Kyoto Racecourse in Fushimi-ku is one of ten racecourses operated by the 
Japan Racing Association. It hosts notable horse races including the Kikuka-shō, 
Spring Tenno Sho, and Queen Elizabeth II Commemorative Cup. Kyoto, having 
been the capital city of Japan, a seat of learning and culture, has long-established 
ties with other great cities around the world. Many foreign scholars, artists 
and writers have stayed in Kyoto over the centuries. The city of Kyoto 
has sister-city relationships with the following cities:[34][35] In addition 
to its sister city arrangements which involve multi-faceted cooperation, 
Kyoto has created a system of "partner cities" which focus on cooperation 
based on a particular topic.[42] At present, Kyoto has partner-city arrangements 
