Ladies and Gentlemen, the Bronx Is Burning is a book by Jonathan Mahler 
that focuses on the year 1977 in New York City. It is 'a layered account', 
'kaleidoscopic', 'a braided narrative', that weaves political, cultural, 
and sporting threads into one narrative. It was first published in 2006, 
and was the basis for the television drama The Bronx Is Burning. Part of 
the phrase surfaced in television media in 1972 as the title of an episode 
from the Man Alive documentary series co-produced by BBC Television and 
Time-Life Films.[1] Entitled The Bronx Is Burning, the hour-long episode 
shadowed Engine Company 82 and Ladder Company 31 as they operated throughout 
the Bronx, chronicling the impact of austerity upon fire safety services 
in the borough.[1] It was five years later in this same borough that Game 
2 of the 1977 World Series was played on October 12th at Yankee Stadium. 
ABC cameras covering the game cut to a helicopter shot of the surrounding 
neighborhood where a large fire was shown raging out of control in Public 
School 3, a building occupying the block bordered by Melrose and Courtlandt 
Avenues and 157th and 158th Streets.[2] The following exchange occurred 
between ABC announcers Keith Jackson and Howard Cosell: Jackson: "That 
is a live picture, obviously a major fire in a large building in the south 
Bronx region of New York City. That's a live picture, and obviously the 
fire department in the Bronx have there, a problem. My goodness, that's 
a huge blaze." Cosell: "That's the very area where President Carter trod 
just a few days ago." About nine minutes later, veiwers were again being 
shown the scene of the fire from the helicopter's camera: Cosell: "That's 
a live shot again, of that fire in the south Bronx that Keith called to 
your attention just a few moments ago. Wonder how many alarms are involved? 
But as Keith said, the fire department really has its work cut out for 
it." Altogether the two men spoke about the fire on five separate occasions. 
Television viewers were repeatedly assured that no one had been hurt, but 
were told mistakenly that the site was a vacant apartment building.[2] 
According to the New York Post, the words used by the two broadcasters 
during the game were later "spun by credulous journalists" into the now 
ubiquitous phrase "Ladies and gentleman, the Bronx is burning" without 
either of the two announcers actually having phrased it that way.[3] The 
book begins by telling of the fiscal and spiritual crisis, as Jonathan 
Mahler calls it, of the city in the mid 1970s. In political cartoons New 
York had become a sinking ship, a zoo where the apes were employed as zookeepers, 
a naughty puppy swatted by a rolled-up newspaper. New York's finances were 
in need of attention. Less than halfway through Abraham Beame's term as 
mayor the city was "careering toward bankruptcy." And perhaps there were 
signs that the 'cultural axis' had tilted. In 1972, The Tonight Show Starring 
Johnny Carson had moved from Midtown Manhattan to Burbank, California—the 
cultural equivalent of the Brooklyn Dodgers move to Los Angeles—and Carson 
would stick the boot in by sprinkling his monologues with reminders of 
the city's decline. "Some Martians landed in Central Park today ... and 
were mugged." The baseball thread of Mahler's book focuses on the New York 
Yankees. In the 1976 World Series, the Yankees had been beaten by the Cincinnati 
Reds, but had won their first pennant since 1964, and the fans were cheering 
Billy Martin—back in New York after 18 years. At 47, "he had the look of 
a rather shopworn Mississippi riverboat gambler." Martin's cockiness, scrappiness, 
and hunger to win met with a positive response in the South Bronx. On November 
29, 1976, Reggie Jackson joined the Yankees. Mahler compares Jackson not 
to Joe DiMaggio but to another Joe—Joe Namath: "Both were mini-skirt chasing 
bachelors, and had confidence to bring the city victory." All winter the 
papers filled with speculation about how Jackson and Thurman Munson, the 
Yankees catcher and captain, were going to get along. Those who knew him 
described Munson as moody; his friend Sparky Lyle didn't agree: "When you're 
moody, you're nice sometimes." Mahler looks at the new Yankee dynasty that 
was forming in '77: Mickey Rivers, Willie Randolph, Reggie ... and those 
close to Martin—Catfish Hunter, Lou Piniella, Graig Nettles. Fran Healy, 
the backup catcher, was Jackson's only friend on the team. Mahler looks 
at certain key games: The cultural thread of Mahler's book focuses particularly 
on the impact of Rupert Murdoch. News of Murdoch's purchase of the New 
York Post broke on 20 November 1976. In 1973, he'd gathered up the San 
Antonio News and launched the National Star as a "supermarket tabloid"; 
now the ailing Post was in his grip, and his eyes also turned to Clay Felker's 
New York. Murdoch was an active presence in the newsroom according to Mahler's 
account, peering over reporters' shoulders and punching up the paper's 
headlines and copy. In March 1977 alone, The Post ran 21 items on Farrah 
Fawcett-Majors, a star of Charlie's Angels; stories became shorter, pictures 
bigger, headlines louder. Within the cultural thread, Mahler writes of 
the music of the time. "Now is the summer of our discothèques" the journalist 
Anthony Haden-Guest had written in New York magazine. Studio 54 the discothèque 
that defined an era of nightlife had opened in April 1977. Paramount Pictures 
had just begun shooting Saturday Night Fever; by the end of the summer, 
disco would be America's second largest grossing entertainment business 
after professional sports. If discos like Studio 54 provided an escape 
from the ugliness, its punk analog, a dive on The Bowery called CBGB, embraced 
it, featuring acts such as Television, Blondie, Patti Smith, and the Ramones. 
"Broken youth stumbling into the home of broken age," wrote Frank Rose 
in the Village Voice. In the midst of the various threads, Mahler writes 
of the Son of Sam murders and of the New York City blackout of 1977, which 
took place on July 13–14, 1977. As a serial killer preyed on an alarmingly 
increasing number of victims while eluding a visibly shaken and financially 
strapped police force, a blanket of hot muggy weather descended on the 
city. Demand for electricity peaked in the middle of the afternoon when 
air conditioners were rumbling all over the city. That night, a major blackout— 
"a total urban eclipse"—struck, and all five boroughs of New York City 
and most of Westchester County were suddenly without power for several 
hours. The mass looting that ensued remains the only civil disturbance 
in the history of NYC to encompass all five boroughs simultaneously, and 
the 3776 arrests were the largest mass arrest in the city's history. Mahler 
recounts the 1977 mayoral race, and the battle between three diverse candidates: 
Included is an account of Cuomo "cold-cocking" Conservative Party of New 
York State chairman Michael R. Long; Long stated that the statement was 
inaccurate and asked to have it corrected, which it was in later editions.[4] 
