Lakeshore is a town on Lake St. Clair in Essex County, Ontario, Canada. 
The town was incorporated in 1999 by amalgamating the Town of Belle River 
with the townships of Maidstone, Rochester, Tilbury North, and Tilbury 
West. It is part of the Windsor census metropolitan area. Lakeshore has 
a significant concentration of Franco-Ontarians, and is one of only three 
communities in Southern Ontario (excluding Eastern Ontario) where francophones, 
as a percentage of the community's population, exceed the provincial average 
of five per cent (the other two are Welland and Penetanguishene). In the 
2011 census, 7.7% of the population reported French as their mother tongue, 
and 17.2% reported knowledge of both official languages.[2] Lakeshore is 
also the site of a historic black community along the Puce River.[3] The 
town comprises the communities of Belle River, Comber, Deerbrook, Elmstead, 
Emeryville, Haycroft, Lighthouse Cove, North Woodslee, Pike Creek, Pleasant 
Park, Puce, Ruscom Station, South Woodslee, St. Joachim, Stoney Point, 
and Strangfield, as well as the far eastern section of Tecumseh. A small 
portion of the township's easternmost area is considered by some to be 
part of Tilbury, although Tilbury proper is located in the neighbouring 
municipality of Chatham-Kent. Although incorporated as a town, the vast 
majority of Lakeshore is rural, being made up of cleared farmland predominately 
used for the cultivation of cash crops such as soybeans and winter wheat 
as well as the location for the Comber Wind Farm. Like the rest of Essex 
County and Chatham-Kent, the terrain is extremely flat and regular. The 
terrain slopes very gently from the southern border of Lakeshore on Highway 
8, with an average elevation of 188m, to the shore of Lake St. Clair at 
176m. The highest land is in the southwestern corner of the town, near 
the town of Essex, at an elevation of 193m.[4] The area is drained by a 
series of slow-moving rivers and creeks, all of which flow northward into 
Lake St. Clair: from west to east, these are Pike Creek, the Puce River, 
Belle River, the Ruscom River, and finally Big Creek and Baptiste Creek, 
which form the northeastern border of Lakeshore at their junction with 
the Thames River. The major transportation arteries through Lakeshore, 
including Highway 401, the Tecumseh Road, and County Roads 42 and 46, all 
follow an east-west parallel toward Windsor and Detroit in the west and 
toward Chatham-Kent in the east. The only significant exception is Highway 
77, which connects Leamington to Highway 401 via Staples. The coast of 
Lake St. Clair and lots fronting the Puce, Belle, and Ruscom rivers were 
first surveyed in 1793 by Patrick McKniff. The area was not fully divided 
into concessions and lots, however, until the rear lines of the townships 
and the Middle Road (today County Road 46) were surveyed by Mahlon Burwell 
in 1823. Land speculation was endemic in Essex County as in many other 
parts of Upper Canada and much of the present town of Lakeshore was once 
owned by a single speculator, the fur trader John Askin: by 1797, he held 
80 lots, concentrated primarily along the Pêche (Pike) Puce, Belle, and 
Ruscom rivers.[5] French Canadians from nearby Detroit and Sandwich were 
the earliest settlers in the area. They were followed beginning in the 
1840s by Irish immigrants, and later by additional waves of French Canadians 
from Quebec. Development was slow until the construction of a series of 
railroads through the area. These include the Great Western Railway, opened 
in 1854 and passing through Belle River, and the Canada Southern Railway 
(later owned by New York Central and Michigan Central), opened in 1872 
and passing through Comber.[6] Following the 1833 Slavery Abolition Act 
which abolished slavery in most of the British Empire, the Lakeshore region 
became one of several end points of the Underground Railroad. In 1851, 
the Refugee Home Society was founded in Detroit by Michigan and Ontario 
abolitionists, and under the direction of Henry Walton Bibb, the society 
purchased scattered lots in and around Maidstone, Puce, and Belle River 
for refugee blacks.[7] The two oldest communities in Lakeshore are Comber 
and Belle River. Comber was settled in 1837 by two Scotch-Irish Presbyterians 
from Comber, Ireland, John Gracey and William MacDowell. It was named after 
their home town in 1848 or 1850, when a post office was opened there in 
John Gracey’s home.[8][9] Belle River was incorporated as a village in 
November 26, 1874, but its origins can be traced back to the Jesuit Mission 
of St. Jude. The mission was founded in 1834 to serve the religious needs 
of the local population of French Catholics. The mission did not receive 
a resident pastor until 1857, after the Great Western Railway opened the 
area to large scale immigration. Over the course of the 1870s, the town’s 
population was tripled by an influx of settlers from the province of Quebec. 
The earliest industries in the town were operated by Luc and Denis Oulette, 
who established a sawmill and gristmill on opposite sides of the river.[10] 
In 1881, the population of Comber was 250 and that of Belle River was 650.[11] 
Stoney Point was settled by 1851 and incorporated as a village in 1881, 
at which time it had a population of 375.[12] The church of St. Joachim, 
which became the centre of the village of the same name, was completed 
in 1882 and enlarged in 1891. It was established to serve the needs of 
French Catholics in the area along the Ruscom River who were distant from 
the existing parishes in Belle River and Stoney Point.[9][13] In the 1920s, 
James Scott Cooper, a well-known local entrepreneur and bootlegger, built 
mansions in Walkerville and Belle River. The Cooper Court Motel and Bar 
in Belle River, built in 1920, still operates today. Cooper was a philanthropist 
and contributed greatly to the construction of Belle River's first high 
school 1922, St. James High School, named in honour of Cooper's generosity. 
The building still stands today, housing the local Canadian Legion on Notre 
Dame Street).[14] Belle River was well known for bootlegging during Prohibition 
in the United States. The Wellington hotel, once located on Notre Dame, 
the town's main street, exported alcohol to the United States along with 
many American-owned cottages on Charron Beach Road. Lakeshore’s economy 
is based primarily on agriculture and manufacturing. Over 27% of the workforce 
of Lakeshore is employed in the manufacturing sector. The prominence of 
manufacturing is an outgrowth of the town’s proximity to Windsor and Detroit, 
the historic centre of North American automobile production. The economy 
of Lakeshore remains closely tied to that of Windsor: over 50% of the town’s 
total workforce is employed in Windsor.[15] In recent years the town has 
seen important developments in renewable energy, particularly in wind power. 
It is the site of the 72-turbine Comber Wind Farm. The community's hockey 
team is the Lakeshore Canadiens, who play in the Great Lakes Junior C Hockey 
League. The youth sports teams are Belle River Jr. Canadiens (Hockey), 
Lakeshore Lightning (Girls Hockey) and Belle River Braves (Baseball) Belle 
River is the birthplace of retired NHL player Tie Domi, and NHL player 
Aaron Ekblad was raised in Belle River. Since 1989, Belle River has been 
known as the "Jet Ski Capital of Canada" due to the number of personal 
watercraft riders and racers in the town, many of which are American visitors. 
The community's racing team is named after the URL: www.belleriver.com 
which successfully competed on the Midwest Watercross Tour. Thames River 
Lighthouse in Lighthouse Cove St. Joachim Church in South Woodslee South 
Woodslee Cemetery Current Provincial Highways: Highway 3 • Highway 77 • 
Highway 401 Railways: Essex Terminal Railway • Windsor Subdivision • Chatham 
