Lake View Cemetery is on the east side of Cleveland, Ohio, along the East 
Cleveland and Cleveland Heights borders. More than 104,000 people are buried 
at Lake View,[1] with more than 700 burials each year. There are 70 acres 
(0.28 km2) remaining for future development. Known locally as "Cleveland's 
Outdoor Museum," Lake View Cemetery is home to the James A. Garfield Memorial, 
Wade Memorial Chapel, which features an interior designed by Louis Tiffany,[2] 
as well as an 80,000,000-US-gallon (300,000,000 l) capacity concrete-filled 
dam. Lake View Cemetery was founded in 1869 and sits on 285 acres (1.15 km2) 
of land.[1] The cemetery is so named because it is partially located in 
the "heights" area of Greater Cleveland, with a view of Lake Erie to the 
north. It was modeled after the great garden cemeteries of Victorian-era 
England and France. The Italian stonemasons brought in to create the Cemetery 
founded the Cleveland neighborhood of Little Italy just to its southwest. 
The James A. Garfield Memorial is the most prominent point of interest 
at Lake View Cemetery. The ornate interior features a large marble statue, 
stained glass, bas relief, and various historical relics from Garfield's 
life and presidency. The monument also serves as a scenic observation deck 
and picnic area. President and Mrs. Garfield are entombed in the lower 
level crypt, their coffins placed side by side and visible to cemetery 
visitors. Another prominent structure in the cemetery is the Wade Chapel. 
A small but magnificent chapel with Tiffany windows and elaborate Biblically-inspired 
mosaics on the walls, the edifice is still used for small weddings and 
located north and down the hill from the Garfield monument. Behind the 
chapel is a large pond. A smaller and very well-known memorial, the Angel 
of Death Victorious at the gravesite of the Haserot family, was created 
by sculptor Herman Matzen.[3] The cemetery is among those profiled in the 
2005 PBS documentary A Cemetery Special. Scenes of the film, Captain America: 
The Winter Soldier, were filmed at the cemetery.[4] Coordinates: 41°30′49″N 
