The Lakeshore Chinooks are a baseball team based in Mequon, Wisconsin, 
United States and a member of the Northwoods League, a collegiate summer 
baseball league. The Chinooks play their home games at Kapco Park on the 
campus of Concordia University Wisconsin. Summer collegiate leagues provide 
an opportunity for college players to spend their summers and display their 
talents to professional scouts. Players must be enrolled in college and 
have at least one year of athletic eligibility to participate. College 
players gain experience with the opportunity to play under the minor league 
conditions using wooden bats, minor league specification baseballs, overnight 
road trips, and playing nightly before fans. College interns gain experience 
by handling a number of duties at Chinooks games including ticketing, operations, 
on-field promotions, and webcast production. Games are webcast via the 
Northwoods League website. Chinooks players stay with local host families 
during the season. More than two dozen local families provide housing.[1] 
Ticket prices are $12 reserved box, $9 reserved grandstand, $6 general 
admission. The Lakeshore Chinooks became the seventh Northwoods League 
team in Wisconsin. Based at Concordia University Wisconsin in Mequon, a 
northern suburb of Milwaukee, the Chinooks were the first Northwoods League 
franchise to make its home in a major metropolitan area. Kapco Inc., a 
metal fabrication and stamping company in Grafton, donated $1 million toward 
completion of the school's new baseball field, named Kapco Park. The donation 
was part of a $2.7 million fund already allocated for the stadium. Concordia's 
baseball team uses Kapco Park in the spring.[2] The Chinooks were the first 
Northwoods League franchise to make its home on a university campus. Kapco 
Park acknowledges the Milwaukee Brewers with its outfield dimensions, the 
last two numbers reflected in famous uniforms - 317 feet in left for Jim 
Gantner, 344 to left-center for Hank Aaron, 404 to center for Paul Molitor 
and 319 to right for Robin Yount, who helped design the fence.[3] In 2012, 
the Wisconsin Interscholastic Athletic Association (WIAA) moved the State 
High School summer baseball tournament to Kapco Park.[4] Kapco Park hosted 
the 2014 Northwoods League All-Star Game on July 22, 2014. The inaugural 
season began May 30, 2012, vs. the Green Bay Bullfrogs (2-1 Chinooks). 
The home opener was Monday, June 11, 2012. The team finished with a 35-35 
record, 4th place in the South division.[5] 2012 attendance was 46,022.[6] 
Launch marketing featured Robin Yount in a series of television spots and 
included a guest appearance by Milwaukee Brewers GM Doug Melvin. 2012 manager 
was John Vodenlich, the coach at UW-Whitewater. Eddy Morgan, Head Coach 
at UW-Superior, managed the Chinooks for the 2013 season. Morgan joined 
the Chinooks for the inaugural 2012 season as an assistant coach. Prior 
to UW-Superior, Morgan spent nine seasons as an assistant coach and recruiting 
coordinator at the College of St. Scholastica. Joining Morgan as an assistant 
coach was Scott Hood, currently an assistant coach at Kansas. Hood played 
at South Dakota State University where he also coached for two seasons. 
The 16-team Northwoods League celebrated its 20th anniversary season in 
2013 with the season opener on Wednesday, May 29. Chinooks home opener 
was Thursday, May 30 vs. Wisconsin Rapids Rafters. Major League Baseball 
commissioner, Bud Selig, threw the first pitch to Major League Baseball 
Hall of Fame member and current minority Chinooks owner, Robin Yount. The 
2013 season featured inter-divisional play for the first time since 2009. 
The Chinooks finished the 2013 season at 44-26, capturing first place overall 
in the South division. The Lakeshore Chinooks were ranked 21st on the Perfect 
Game Top 50 Summer Collegiate Teams for 2013. Eddy Morgan returned to the 
Chinooks for his second season as Field Manager. Morgan was named the new 
head coach of the Concordia University-Wisconsin Falcons baseball team 
in June 2013. Mark Moriarty returned to the Chinooks coaching staff in 
2014. Prior to joining the Chinooks and CUW, the St. Scholastica grad had 
coaching stints at Concordia St. Paul (2012) and Augustana (2008-2011). 
MLB Hall-of-Fame member and Lakeshore Chinooks minority owner Robin Yount's 
Chinooks Jersey #19 was retired by the team on May 31, 2014. The Chinooks 
clinched the first-half South Division championship on the last day of 
the regular season when Blake Butler hit a walk-off home run to topple 
the Kenosha Kingfish, 5-4, at Kapco Park.[7] In the second half, the Chinooks 
became just the third team in league history to accumulate 50 victories, 
winning the organization's third-straight South Division half title. The 
team continued its dominance through the playoffs, sweeping the overall 
South Division second-place Wisconsin Woodchucks two games to none in the 
Division Playoff to advance to the franchise's first Summer Collegiate 
World Series. Against the North Division champion Mankato MoonDogs, the 
Chinooks won the first game of the series in Mankato, 5-4, before returning 
to Mequon and completing their undefeated run through the playoffs with 
a 3-0 victory in Game Two to clinch the franchise's first-ever league championship.[8] 
The Chinooks' ownership group consists of twelve investors; most notably 
Jim Kacmarcik, president of Kapco,Inc, Milwaukee Bucks general manager 
John Hammond, Milwaukee Brewers play-by-play announcer Bob Uecker, and 
Brewers legend and Baseball Hall of Famer Robin Yount.[9][10][11] Forrest 
Chadwick (Southern Maine University) was the team’s 2012 MVP. Chadwick 
ended the season with a .301 batting average, 69 hits, 42 runs, 11 home 
runs, and 52 RBI’s. Forrest was one of three Northwoods League players 
to have a perfect fielding percentage while committing no errors. The Chinooks 
Pitcher of the Year award was given to Joe Greenfield (Eastern Illinois). 
Greenfield was drafted by the Boston Red Sox in the 22nd round of the 2012 
draft but opted to continue his collegiate playing career. He appeared 
in 13 games, 7 of those in a starting role, finished the season with a 
2.29 ERA and a 5-1 record including one complete game. The first ever Kapco 
Steel Slugger Award was awarded to Eric Aguilera (Illinois State). Aguilera 
finished the season with a .369 batting average, 69 hits, 31 runs, 4 home 
runs, and 28 RBI’s. Following an appearance in the 2012 All-Star Game, 
Aguilera’s season was cut short due to injury. Charlie Markson (Notre Dame) 
was selected for the Robin Yount Award which goes to the player that exemplified 
high personal standards both on and off of the field. The four award recipients 
were presented with their 2012 awards on Opening Day May 30 during an on-field 
presentation prior to the game. 2012 MLB Draft: Eric Semmelhack (University 
of Wisconsin–Milwaukee).[14] Keaton Steele (Missouri) Tampa Bay Rays, 29th 
round.[15] 2013 MLB Draft: Joe Greenfield was selected by the Minnesota 
Twins. Josh Uhen (UW-M) who played for the Chinooks in 2012 was selected 
in the fifth round by the Milwaukee Brewers. Other Chinooks players that 
had local ties were Cody Yount, the nephew of Robin Yount, selected by 
the Chicago White Sox in the 37th round and Charlie Markson, Notre Dame, 
Whitefish Bay High School was drafted in the 38th round by the Brewers. 
