Lakeland is a city in Polk County, Florida, United States, roughly halfway 
between Tampa and Orlando. According to the 2013 U.S. Census Bureau estimate, 
the city had a population of 100,710.[2] Lakeland is a principal city of 
the Lakeland–Winter Haven Metropolitan Statistical Area (coterminous with 
Polk County), which had an estimated population of 623,009 in July 2013 
based on data from the University of Florida Bureau of Economic and Business 
Research. It is twinned with Richmond Hill, Ontario; Imabari, Ehime, Japan; 
Balti, Moldova; Portmore, Jamaica; and Chongming County, Shanghai, China 
as part of the Sister Cities program. The area was home to Native American 
tribes. Lakeland was settled in the 1870s and expanded in the 1880s with 
the arrival of rail service. Lakeland is home to the 1,267-acre Circle 
B Bar Reserve. The first Paleo-Indians reached the central Florida area 
near the end of the last ice age, as they followed big game south.[5][6] 
As the ice melted and sea levels rose, these Native Americans ended up 
staying and thrived on the peninsula for thousands of years. By the time 
the first Spanish conquistadors arrived, over 250,000 Native Americans 
were living on the peninsula. Some of these first early tribes were the 
Tocobago, Timucua, and Calusa. In 1527, a Spanish map showed a settlement 
near the Rio de la Paz.[5][6] The arrival of the Spanish turned out to 
be disastrous to these Native American tribes. Within 150 years, the majority 
of the pre-Columbian Native American peoples of Florida had been wiped 
out. Those who had not succumbed to diseases such as smallpox or yellow 
fever were either killed or enslaved.[5][6][7][8] Little is left of these 
first Native Americans cultures in Polk County except for scant archaeological 
records, including a few personal artifacts and shell mounds. Eventually, 
the remnants of these tribes merged with Creek Indians who arrived from 
the north and become the Seminole Indian tribe.[6][8] Florida became a 
state in 1845, and Polk County was established in 1861. After the American 
Civil War, the county seat was established southeast of Lakeland in Bartow. 
While most of the early history of Polk County centered on the two cities 
of Bartow and Fort Meade, eventually, people entered the areas in northern 
Polk County and began settling in the areas which became Lakeland. Lakeland 
was first settled in the 1870s and began to develop as the rail lines reached 
the area in 1884. It was incorporated 1 January 1885. The town was founded 
by Abraham Munn (a resident of Louisville, Kentucky), who purchased 80 
acres (320,000 m2) of land in what is now downtown Lakeland in 1882 and 
platted the land for the town in 1884. Lakeland was named for the many 
lakes near the town site.[9] In April 1898, the Spanish–American War began 
and started a crucial point in Lakeland's development. While the war ended 
quickly and had little impact on most of the nation, the Florida peninsula 
was used as a launch point for the war and the then small town of Lakeland 
housed over 9,000 troops.[10] The Florida boom resulted in the construction 
of many significant structures in Lakeland, a number of which are today 
listed on the National Register of Historic Places. This list includes 
the Terrace Hotel, New Florida Hotel (Regency Tower, currently Lake Mirror 
Tower), Polk Theatre, Frances Langford Promenade, Polk Museum of Art (not 
a product of the 1920s boom), Park Trammell Building (formerly the Lakeland 
Public Library and today the Lakeland Chamber of Commerce), and others. 
The city also has several historic districts with many large buildings 
built during the 1920s and 1940s. The Cleveland Indians held spring training 
there from 1923 to 1927 at Henley Field Ball Park. Parks were developed 
surrounding Lake Mirror including Barnett Children's Park, Hollis Gardens, 
and the newest, Allen Kryger Park. The "boom" period went "bust" quickly, 
and years passed before the city recovered. Part of the re-emergence was 
due to the arrival of the Detroit Tigers in 1934 for spring training. (The 
team continues to train at Lakeland's Joker Marchant Stadium and owns the 
city's Florida State League team, the Lakeland Flying Tigers.) The development 
of the Lakeland Municipal Airport as a major facility in central Florida 
transportation was another factor. The 1930s also featured the arrival 
of renowned architect Frank Lloyd Wright. In 1938, he came to Lakeland 
at the request of Florida Southern College President Ludd Spivey to design 
a "great education temple in Florida." For 20 years, Wright worked on his 
"true American campus" creation. In his original master plan, he called 
for 18 buildings (and several other structures), nine of which were completed 
and nine left on the drawing board. All of the buildings were built out 
of what Wright called his "textile block system", the first use of such 
a system in Florida. He called his project "A Child of the Sun", so named 
from the architect's own description of being "out of the ground, into 
the light, a child of the sun." It is the largest one-site collection of 
Frank Lloyd Wright buildings in the world, and in many ways helped to form 
a pattern for many colleges in Florida and other areas of the country in 
the future years.[11] During World War II, hundreds of young British airmen 
were taught to fly at Lakeland's Lodwick Airfield by volunteer flight instructors, 
a collection of barnstormers, and independent pilots. Later, when America 
entered the war, the Army Air Corps relied on training fields like Lodwick 
to train pilots for its fighters, bombers, and transport planes. According 
to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 67 sq mi 
(173.5 km2); 45.84 sq mi (118.7 km2) of it is land and 5.61 sq mi (14.5 km2) 
(10.90%) is covered by water. Lakeland is located within the Central Florida 
Highlands area of the Atlantic coastal plain, with a terrain consisting 
of flatland interspersed with gently rolling hills.[12] The dominant feature 
in Lakeland is the city's many lakes. Thirty-eight lakes are named, with 
a number of other bodies of water unnamed, mostly phosphate mine pits that 
eventually filled with water.[13][14] The largest of these is Lake Parker, 
which is 2,550 acres (10.3 km2) in size. Much of the culture of Lakeland 
revolves around its many lakes, and many people use the lakes as reference 
points in much the same way that people in other towns use streets as reference 
points, such as "I live near Lake Beulah." In addition to Lake Parker, 
some of the more prominent lakes in the Lakeland area are Lake Hollingsworth, 
Lake Morton, Lake Mirror, and Lake Gibson. Swans are one of the most visible 
features on the lakes of Lakeland. They have a long history, the first 
swans appearing around 1923. By 1954, the swans were gone, eradicated by 
alligators and pets. A Lakeland resident who mourned the passing of the 
swans wrote to Queen Elizabeth. The royal family allowed the capture of 
two of the royal swans, and the swans now on the lakes of Lakeland are 
the descendants of the royal swans sent by the queen. In July 2006, Scott 
Lake, one of the city's lakes, was almost totally drained by a cluster 
of sinkholes.[15] The lake later partially refilled .[16] Lakeland, like 
most other parts of Florida north of Lake Okeechobee, is located in the 
humid subtropical zone (Köppen climate classification: Cfa).[17] Typically, 
summers are hot and humid with high temperatures seldom dropping below 
90 °F and 70 °F for the overnight low. Like most of Central Florida, afternoon 
thunderstorms are the norm throughout the summer. Winters in Lakeland are 
drier and mild, with frequent sunny skies. High temperatures range from 
the low 70s during the day and lower 50s at night. Rare cold snaps drop 
temperatures below freezing every few years. Lakeland is governed by a 
six-member city council. Four members are elected from districts; the other 
two are elected at large. The mayor is elected. Lakeland made national 
headlines on September 28, 2006, when Polk County Sheriff's Deputy Vernon 
"Matt" Williams and his K-9 partner Diogi were shot and killed after a 
routine traffic stop in the Wabash area of Lakeland. More than 500 police 
officers from a variety of law enforcement agencies joined in a search 
for Angilo Freeland, suspected of murdering Williams and then stealing 
his gun. Freeland was found hiding in a rural area the next morning. Nine 
officers from five different law enforcement agencies surrounded Freeland 
and shot him when he raised Williams' stolen gun at them. A total of 110 
shots were fired and Freeland was hit 68 times, killing him instantly.[19][20] 
Multiple investigations concluded the officers' use of force was justified.[21] 
Deputy Williams and Diogi were laid to rest on October 3, 2006, after a 
funeral that included a one-hour-and-45-minute procession to Auburndale.[22] 
On December 18, 2011, Lakeland Police Officer Arnulfo Crispin was shot 
and killed after he stopped five young men while on a routine patrol. Crispin 
was 25 years old, and an 18-month veteran of the force. Kyle Williams was 
convicted of the killing and sentenced to life in prison.[23] The Lakeland 
Police Department is recognized as having one of the best-trained canine 
units in the United States. At the annual USPCA Police Dog Field Trials—the 
largest competition of police dogs in the United States—Lakeland police 
dog "Nox" took first place in 2015, "Bruno" took first place in 2012 and 
2013, and "Charief" took second place in 2009 and 2011.[24][25][26] In 
October 2010, Officer Rawn Haynes was arrested and charged with negligence 
for having left a weapon in a car with two young boys. One of the children 
found the gun and shot the other boy in the hand. Officer Haynes was suspended 
with pay after his arrest.[27] In June 2011, Sergeant Steven Sealy was 
suspended from the department for reportedly interfering with the investigation 
of police Lieutenant Ralph Schrader. Schrader had been convicted in January 
2010 of stalking his ex-wife.[28] In July 2013, the county prosecutor released 
a report that "revealed an extraordinary amount of sexual conduct that 
was committed both on-duty and off-duty" with a single woman. As a result 
of the report, an assistant chief of the department retired while five 
officers have been placed on various forms of modified duty. "Had these 
members of your department been more focused on the important responsibilities 
of law enforcement, rather than pursuing sexual encounters with a civilian 
analyst, LPD might not be in the condition it is today", the report concluded.[29] 
Sergeants Rusty Longaberger and David Woolverton were fired for conduct 
unbecoming, failure to report misconduct, and neglect of duty.[30] In late 
January 2014, the State Attorney's Office investigated hiring practices 
in the department due to allegations of improper handling of the 2012 job 
application of the nephew of the Chief Lisa Womack. The chief had already 
announced she would leave her position on 1 May 2014. She was placed on 
administrative leave in January 2014. One city councilman, Justin Troller, 
commented, "Let's pay her and move on."[31] As of 2010, 48,218 households 
were in the city, with 15.5% being vacant. As of 2000, 23.5% had children 
under the age of 18 living with them, 43.5% were married couples living 
together, 13.7% had a female householder with no husband present, and 39% 
were individuals and nontraditional families. About 32.9% of all households 
were made up of individuals, and 14.9% had someone living alone who was 
65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.23 and the average 
family size was 2.82. As of the 2010 census, the city was 20.9% Black or 
African American, 70.8% White, 0.3% Native American, 1.8% Asian, 0.1% Native 
Hawaiian, and 2.7% were two or more races. 12.6% of the population were 
of Hispanic or Latino ancestry. In 2000, the city the population was spread 
out with 21.4% under the age of 18, 10.3% from 18 to 24, 24.7% from 25 
to 44, 20.6% from 45 to 64, and 23.0% who were 65 years of age or older. 
The median age was 40 years. For every 100 females, there were 86.8 males. 
For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 82.1 males. In 2000, 
the median income for a household in the city was $16,119, and for a family 
was $17,468. Males had a median income of $14,137 versus $9,771 for females. 
The per capita income for the city was $15,760. About 47% of families and 
35% of the population were below the poverty line, including 97% of those 
under age 18 and 9% of those age 65 or over. In 2008-2012, the per capita 
income was $23,817 and the median household income was $40,284. Persons 
below the poverty line in 2008-2012 were 17.5% according to the US Census.[34] 
As of 2000, those who spoke only English at home accounted for 91% of all 
residents, while 9% spoke other languages at home. The most significant 
were Spanish speakers who made up 6.44% of the population, while German 
came up as the third-most spoken language, which made up 0.75%, and French 
was fourth, with 0.51% of the population.[35] In 1913, the Wolfson family 
arrived from Lithuania and became the first Jewish settlers to the area.[36] 
After some struggles, the Jewish community in Lakeland flourished and the 
first synagogue, Temple Emanuel opened in 1932.[37] The Rohr Jewish Learning 
Institute presents classes and seminars in Lakewood in partnership with 
Chabad of Lakeland.[38] Lakeland is home to one of the first Hindu temples 
in the United States, the Swaminarayan Hindu Temple.[39] In 1994, the first 
and only mosque was established. It was called Masjid Aisha, but is now 
called the Islamic Center of Lakeland. It was remodeled in 2011. It is 
located on the corner of Providence and Orange Blossom.[citation needed] 
Christianity makes up the largest religious group in Lakeland. As of 2013, 
an estimated 300 churches existed with an address in the city.[40] Lakeland 
is the largest city on Interstate 4 between Orlando and Tampa. Large industries 
in the Lakeland area are citrus, cattle, and phosphate mining. In the past 
few decades, tourism, medicine, insurance, transportation, and music have 
grown in importance. Citrus growing dates back to the early settlers who 
planted trees in the area in the 1850s. After a series of freezes in counties 
north of Polk County, the area became the focal point for citrus growing 
in Florida. Although citrus is no longer the largest industry in the area, 
it still plays a large part in the economy of Lakeland and Polk County. 
Phosphate mining is still important to the economy of Lakeland, although 
most of the mining now takes place further south. The Bone Valley produced 
25% of the U.S. phosphate supply. Lakeland's largest employer is Publix 
Supermarkets.[41] Publix is one of the largest regional grocery chains 
in the United States with over 1,000 stores. Publix employs over 6,500 
people in the Lakeland area including headquarter and warehouse employees. 
Lakeland is a transportation hub. FedEx Freight and FedEx Services and 
the Saddle Creek Corporation employ over 600 people in the area.[41] Other 
large employers in the area include GEICO, Rooms To Go, and Lakeland Regional 
Medical Center.[41] Polk County is within the Tampa Bay television market. 
Bright House Networks is the cable television franchise serving Lakeland, 
which offers most television stations from the Tampa Bay market, as well 
as WFTV, the ABC affiliate from Orlando. WMOR-TV, an independent television 
station, is licensed to Lakeland, with its studios in Tampa and its transmitter 
in Riverview. Lakeland and Polk County are within its own radio market. 
Local radio stations include: WLLD 94.1 FM is licensed to Lakeland, but 
has wider focus on the Tampa Bay area, with studios in St. Petersburg. 
WKES 91.1 FM is also licensed to Lakeland as part of the statewide Moody 
Radio Florida network, with studios in Seminole, near St. Petersburg. Most 
major stations from Tampa Bay and a few from Orlando are also available. 
The local newspaper is The Ledger, owned by Halifax Media Group. The city 
magazine is "The Lakelander" published by Patterson Publishing In 1990, 
Lakeland made its Hollywood debut when the Southgate Shopping Center was 
featured in the movie Edward Scissorhands. It was also used in the filming 
of the Judd Nelson movie Endure.[42] Classrooms from Florida Southern College 
were used in the Adam Sandler comedy, The Waterboy.[43] Because Lakeland 
is the largest city on Interstate 4 between Tampa and Orlando, the city 
is an important transportation hub. The county nickname, Imperial Polk 
County, was coined because a large bond issue in 1914 enabled wide roads 
between the cities of Polk County.[44] The important freeways and highways 
in Lakeland today are: In recent years, the Lakeland area has developed 
a number of paved, multi-use bicycle routes including the Lake-To-Lakes 
Trail, which runs from Lake Parker through downtown, past several lakes, 
ending at Lake John. Other routes include University Trail, which connects 
Polk State College to Florida Polytechnic University, and the Fort Fraser 
Trail, which runs along US Highway 98 from Polk State College to Highway 
60 in Bartow.[45] The 28 elementary schools, seven middle schools, five 
traditional high schools, and three magnet-choice high schools in the Lakeland 
area are run by the Polk County School Board. A number of opportunities 
exist for higher education around the Lakeland area. Southeastern University 
is the largest university in the area, with an enrollment around 2800.[47] 
Southeastern is affiliated with the Assemblies of God. Florida Southern 
College, established in 1883 and with a current enrollment of just over 
2000,[48] is located on Lake Hollingsworth. Florida Southern is the home 
of the world's largest single-site collection of Frank Lloyd Wright architecture. 
In July 2008, the University of South Florida's Lakeland campus was granted 
partial autonomy by Governor Charlie Crist and became Florida Polytechnic 
University. Florida Polytechnic has created a new campus located just inside 
the Lakeland's northeast border at the intersection of I-4 and Polk Parkway 
in addition to their joint site with Polk State College on Winter Lake 
Road. Both Everest University and Keiser University, two multisite, accredited 
universities, have locations in Lakeland. Traviss Career Center is a vocational 
school.[49] Webster University offers on-site, regionally accredited graduate 
degree programs in business and counseling at their Lakeland Metropolitan 
Campus[50] Joker Marchant Stadium, north of downtown, hosts spring training 
for the Detroit Tigers, as well as their Lakeland Flying Tigers class-A 
Florida State League and GCL Tigers rookie-league Gulf Coast League minor 
league baseball teams. Lakeland is also home to the Lakeland Raiders, an 
indoor football team playing in the Ultimate Indoor Football League. They 
play at the Lakeland Center. In the 1980s, the Lakeland Center briefly 
played host to the indoor version of the Tampa Bay Rowdies soccer team. 
The Lakeland Center also hosts the Florida High School Athletic Association's 
state basketball finals. Sun 'n Fun is the home of Lakeland's only roller 
derby league, the Lakeland Derby Dames. Also, the Southeastern Football 
