The Lancaster Barnstormers are an American professional baseball team based 
in Lancaster, Pennsylvania. They are a member of the Freedom Division of 
the Atlantic League of Professional Baseball, which is not affiliated with 
Major League Baseball. From the 2005 season to the present, the Barnstormers 
have played their home games at Clipper Magazine Stadium in the city's 
Northwest Corridor. Baseball fans in Lancaster waited 44 years for the 
sport to return after the Lancaster Red Roses folded following the 1961 
season. In 2003, Lancastrians chose the name "Barnstormers" in a team-sponsored 
fan ballot.[1] The name refers to the act of "barnstorming", which means 
to travel around an area appearing in exhibition sports events, especially 
baseball games.[2] It was used to describe Lancaster's baseball teams as 
far back as 1906 by the Lancaster Daily Intelligencer: "There was a crowd 
of between seven and eight hundred persons out on Friday to see the Lancaster 
barnstormers play the Philadelphia Giants."[3] The team's primary logo 
was designed with local history in mind, as the team's original colors 
of red, navy blue, and khaki were the same as those used by the former 
Red Roses.[4] The name and logo also allude to Lancaster County's agricultural 
heritage, notable for its inclusion of Amish culture and lore.[5] The Barnstormers 
organization lightheartedly calls its market the "Pennsylvania Clutch Country," 
referring to Lancaster's location in the Pennsylvania Dutch Country and 
the sports term, "clutch".[6] The Barnstormers represent all of Lancaster 
County, even though they play in the city of Lancaster. The team designates 
many of its home games to honor the county's smaller communities.[4][7] 
The Lancaster Barnstormers were originally owned by Opening Day Partners 
(ODP), a company that specializes in baseball club and stadium operations. 
ODP also created Atlantic League clubs in York, Pennsylvania, Southern 
Maryland, and Sugar Land, Texas. On November 12, 2014, ODP transitioned 
their ownership of the Barnstormers to Dakota Baseball, LLC in order to 
complete their goal of focusing solely on the Southern Maryland Blue Crabs. 
Dakota Baseball comprises Ian Ruzow, Rob Liss, Steve Zuckerman, and Bob 
Zuckerman, Lancastrians and founders of Clipper Magazine - the Barnstormers' 
naming rights partner.[8] Baseball first came to Lancaster County in the 
1860s by soldiers returning home from the Civil War. They learned the rules 
while serving in the military and wanted to continue playing.[9] The very 
first professional baseball teams in Lancaster were the Lancaster Lancasters 
and the Lancaster Ironsides. The Lancasters played in the Keystone Association 
while the Ironsides played in the Eastern League, both starting in 1884. 
The following season, the Lancasters joined the Eastern League, and the 
two teams became bitter rivals. They competed against each other for fan 
support, league affiliation, and money at the gate. At its peak, insults 
and refusals to play against each other were the norm. The teams finally 
agreed to play each other at the end of the 1884 season, in which the Ironsides 
defeated the Lancasters after seven very close games. The Lancasters were 
the only team to continue play in the next season.[10] In the 1894–1895 
season, a team called the Lancaster Chicks played in the Keystone Association. 
An all-African-American team called the Lancaster Giants followed in 1887, 
and many Lancastrians supported the team despite the social pressure of 
the day. The Giants hosted many exhibition games against the Philadelphia 
Giants of the Keystone Club.[11] Between the years 1896 and 1899, the first 
team called the Lancaster Maroons played in the original Atlantic League. 
In 1905, the second inception of the Maroons played in the Tri-State League.[12] 
In 1906, the Maroons became the Lancaster Red Roses. As both teams were 
named for the opposing factions in England's historic Wars of the Roses, 
the name change infuriated the rival White Roses from the nearby city of 
York.[13] The Red Roses were managed by former Boston Red Sox infielder 
Johnny Pesky during the 1958 season.[14] In 2003, the Atlantic League of 
Professional Baseball formally announced an expansion team for the city 
of Lancaster. In November 2004, the Barnstormers announced the locally 
anticipated signing of Tom Herr, a Major League Baseball veteran and Lancaster 
native, as the team's first manager.[15] At the press conference, Herr 
responded, "I have been looking forward to the return of baseball to Lancaster 
for quite some time. This is almost too good to be true, being able to 
manage in my hometown." His oldest son, Aaron, signed with the Barnstormers 
for the 2009 season, after a severe groin injury compromised his promising 
career at the Class-AAA level.[16] Jordan Herr, the younger of Tom's two 
sons, joined the team in the first half of the 2008 season in lieu of completing 
his senior year at the University of Pittsburgh. Following his first season 
of professional baseball that included a .202 batting average with four 
home runs and 16 runs batted in, Jordan committed to the Great Falls Voyagers, 
a Rookie-level team in the Chicago White Sox system.[17][18] The Barnstormers' 
first playing season came in 2005 at the newly built Clipper Magazine Stadium. 
On May 11, the Barnstormers lost their first game 4–3 to the Atlantic City 
Surf, in front of 7,300 fans. They finished the 2005 season with a record 
of 64 wins and 76 losses. In finishing the first half of the 2006 season 
with a record of 38–25, the Barnstormers qualified for their first Atlantic 
League playoff berth. They followed this feat with a second-half win, posting 
a record of 37–26. After besting division challenger, Atlantic City, in 
the first round of the playoffs, the Barnstormers swept the Bridgeport 
Bluefish on October 1, 2006 for their first ever Atlantic League championship, 
in only their second season. Pitcher Denny Harriger threw a complete game, 
breaking a franchise record for consecutive pitches. In doing so, the Barnstormers 
became the first Atlantic League team in history to sweep their way through 
both rounds of the playoffs on the way to a title. It was the city of Lancaster’s 
first professional championship since 1955, when the former Red Roses won 
the Piedmont League title. The Barnstormers played in the 2012 Atlantic 
League Championship Series but were ultimately defeated by the Long Island 
Ducks in Game 5.[19] The Barnstormers are heavily covered in the Lancaster 
press and receive a significant following from Lancaster-area fans, many 
of whom hail the organization as family-friendly in their planning of events 
for game nights. Even though some Lancastrians have speculated the possibility 
of the organization becoming a Major League-affiliated club, two nearby 
affiliated teams in Harrisburg and Reading have made it clear that they 
will not waive their territorial claims over Lancaster.[20] The Barnstormers 
are managed by Butch Hobson, the most successful Atlantic League coach 
with a record of 654 wins to 549 losses.[21] He succeeds Tom Herr, who 
led the team from its inauguration to the 2006 championship season, and 
from 2009 to 2010. In 2008, the Barnstormers were coached by Von Hayes, 
a former teammate of Herr from the 1989 and 1990 Phillies.[22] Rick Wise, 
the winning pitcher for the Boston Red Sox in Game 6 of the 1975 World 
Series, is also a managerial alumnus of the Lancaster Barnstormers. He 
was the team's third base coach from the inaugural 2005 season to the end 
of the 2008 campaign. In 2012, the Lancaster Barnstormers set an Atlantic 
League record with 88 wins.[23] The primary colors of the Lancaster Barnstormers 
are red, black, khaki, and white. These are similar to the colors used 
by the Red Roses, representing a conscious effort to connect the past and 
the present of Lancaster County baseball. The primary logo consists of 
a typical red barn outlined in black with a curving baseball. Unlike most 
sports logos, the geographical location is prominently featured rather 
than the team nickname. Team management decided to emphasize the Lancaster 
community so that the whole county could feel a sense of ownership and 
pride.[24] In 2011, the Barnstormers substituted black for navy blue and 
unveiled three agriculture-themed alternate logos: a hex sign, a weather 
vane, and the barn-planked "LB" initials.[25] The "hex-sign" logo incorporates 
the team's initials and a Pennsylvania Dutch design complete with a baseball 
and two crossed bats. Additionally, it includes two red roses symbolizing 
Lancaster's nickname, "Red Rose City." For the 2015 season, the Barnstormers 
partnered with Zephyr Headwear for their caps and with the Pennsylvania-based 
Majestic Athletic for their uniforms. The home cap is red throughout and 
is charged with a stylized cursive "L" in white with black and khaki outline 
interweaving with a curving baseball. The away cap is black and also features 
the cursive "L" logo. The home jerseys are white with red piping and the 
cursive "Lancaster" wordmark across the front in red, khaki, and black. 
The away jersey is solid gray, featuring the blocked "Lancaster" wordmark 
arched across the chest in red with black outline. The alternate jersey 
is black with the barn-planked "Stormers" wordmark and the primary logo 
on the right sleeve. The Barnstormers wear red belts, socks, and undershirts 
with all uniforms. In 2016, the Atlantic League partnered with Rawlings 
to fashion unique catcher's gear for all eight teams. The design for the 
Barnstormers features a golden sunrise over a red barn, symbolizing the 
Lancaster County's agricultural heritage as well as its future potential.[26] 
Philanthropy is an important facet of the Barnstormers' representation 
of the Lancaster community. Many of the team's home game promotions are 
designed to benefit various philanthropic organizations. The specialty 
jerseys worn by the Barnstormers on commemorative home games benefit the 
Spanish-American Lancaster Sports Association (SALSA), Play Ball USA, Batters 
Up, and the Lancaster Art Museum.[28][29] "Rally Roni", initiated by the 
shaking of macaroni and cheese boxes, provides food for the homeless in 
Lancaster, Lebanon, Dauphin, and York Counties, as well as the cities of 
Philadelphia and Wilmington, Delaware. Video board announcements at Clipper 
Magazine Stadium require a $5 donation that is deposited into the Cylo 
Fund, which supports the Spanish-American Civic Association, the Lancaster 
Day Care Center, as well as the purchase and distribution of Christmas 
presents to children in homeless shelters during the holidays. In 2008, 
the Barnstormers partnered with the James Street Improvement District (JSID) 
to reward those who commit random acts of kindness in the Lancaster community. 
The JSID Bike Patrol grants Good Deed Tickets, redeemable for a free game 
or winter activity. A Grand Prize winner is also selected from the pool 
of recipients. The Grand Prize is eight tickets to the final home game 
of the regular season, including the opportunity to throw the ceremonial 
last first pitch of season.[30] Prior to the 2009 season, the Lancaster 
Barnstormers initiated an Internet-based fundraising campaign. With this 
program, a charity can choose a specific game to attract ticket sales, 
with the team providing promotional materials containing a group password 
and link for fans to purchase tickets via the team's website. Once 100 
tickets are sold through that link, the Barnstormers give the charity $4.00 
for each seat sold. If ticket sales through that link reach 500 sold, then 
$4.50 of each ticket sold (half the value of a regular ticket)will go to 
the nonprofit. The team's motivation behind the new campaign is the lack 
of funds being given to charity and nonprofit organizations because of 
the 2008–2009 economic recession.[31] During the Lancaster Barnstormers' 
2006 playoff run, the "Code Red" tradition was created by the team's management. 
When a "Code Red" is called, all employees and loyal fans wear red shirts 
and wave red rally towels to support the Barnstormers. It is usually declared 
for important home games, especially when the club competes against the 
York Revolution, their local rival.[32] "Everybody hits!" is a common applause 
used by Lancaster Barnstormers fans. It originated with Dan Sensenig, a 
Lancaster fan of the Philadelphia Phillies who started the cheer in the 
first home game in the bottom of the 3rd inning. Sensenig is known for 
his Amish hat filled with autographs of players of the Barnstomer players 
since their inaugural season, inspiring other fans to UTTER the phrase 
Everybody Hit".[33] On Agriculture/Dairy Night of the 2008 season, the 
Barnstormers had a giveaway promotion of red cowbells that featured their 
primary logo.[34] The South Central Pennsylvania cities of Lancaster and 
York have a historical rivalry in all sporting events from the high-school 
level to the professional. Since both cities are named after the English 
cities of Lancaster and York, the former Pennsylvania baseball teams were 
named for the opposing sides of the Wars of the Roses. As a metaphor, "War 
of the Roses" describes the intense baseball matches fought between the 
Lancaster Red Roses and the York White Roses. With the addition of York 
to the Atlantic League, the Barnstormers continue the Red Roses' tradition 
as they battle the York Revolution for lower Susquehanna supremacy. The 
"War of the Roses" was rekindled with the sound of notional cannon-fire 
at the start of the 2007 Atlantic League season in Wrightsville, a borough 
located on the Susquehanna River, the natural boundary between Lancaster 
and York counties. The winner of the War of the Roses is presented with 
the Community Cup, while the defeated team is obligated to sing the ballpark 
classic "Take Me Out to the Ball Game" and plant a rose garden at the opponent's 
ballpark with their representative color: red for Lancaster, white for 
York. The first Community Cup was championed by the Barnstormers in the 
2007 season, though the Revolution avenged them by winning it in 2008.[35] 
The clubs also competed in the Route 30 Showdown in 2009–2011, an annual 
cross-county doubleheader inadvertently created at the conclusion of the 
2008 season by a rain-delay.[36] The Barnstormers host two annual promotions 
at Clipper Magazine Stadium that highlight aspects of the local culture. 
As the city of Lancaster is home to a large contingent of Puerto Ricans,[38] 
the team hosts the Hispanic Heritage Day celebration once every season.[39] 
The Barnstormers pay homage to the county's populace by promoting a common 
Pennsylvania Dutch dessert called the whoopie pie.,[40] which has been 
a regular concession at Clipper Magazine Stadium since its 2005 opening[41] 
and was even featured in a 2011 eating competition called "Whoopie Bowl."[42] 
With the inaugural season of the Southern Maryland Blue Crabs in 2008, 
the Barnstormers partnered with a local seafood restaurant to initiate 
the team's annual "Crack the Crabs" feast. The promotion is a jest to the 
"Blue Crabs" nickname – with all patrons given a free mallet.[43] In summer 
2013, Tim Guraedy (a.k.a., "Mountain Man") from the A&E show Duck Dynasty, 
attended a Barnstormers game versus Southern Maryland and remarked, "Barnstormers 
sound like they’d be a little bit more vicious than a blue crab. Blue crabs, 
you can eat 'em. Barnstormers sound more like a tornado something that’d 
rip your barn down."[44] In 2012, the Barnstormers held its first annual 
celebrity softball game, which was hosted by LeSean McCoy, an All-Pro running 
back on the Philadelphia Eagles and Harrisburg, Pennsylvania native. The 
contest pits the Eagles against professional football players from other 
teams in the National Football League. The 2012 Eagles roster featured 
Brent Celek, Hugh Douglas, DeSean Jackson, Jeremy Maclin, Dominique Rodgers-Cromartie, 
Torrey Smith, Michael Vick, and Brian Westbrook. Their opponents included 
Victor Cruz of the New York Giants, Devin Hester of the Chicago Bears, 
Cam Newton of the Carolina Panthers, Hakeem Nicks of the New York Giants, 
Ray Rice of the Baltimore Ravens, and Mike Wallace of the Pittsburgh Steelers. 
Any proceeds collected for the LeSean McCoy Celebrity Softball Game are 
directed to the LeSean McCoy Foundation, a 501(c)(3) organization that 
serves to raise funds and awareness for Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis. 
LeSean McCoy is motivated by his grandmother's death due to ALS.[45] Additionally, 
the Foundation also provides for the underprivileged in Central Pennsylvania 
and Philadelphia. Some of the money collected from the 2012 game provided 
Christmas toys to the Boys and Girls Club and the Salvation Army, sports 
gear to the Police Athletic League, a professional football game and a 
winter vacation for families affected by ALS, winter coats and backpacks 
containing necessary school supplies for impoverished children, and winter 
coats for a women's and children's shelter in Philadelphia.[46] The Barnstormers 
rebranded themselves as the "Lancaster Hex" for one night, on June 28, 
2013. This was one of the potential monikers during a "name-the-team" contest 
prior to their inaugural season. The logo incorporates a stylized baseball 
charged and a red rose with menacing green eyes. The nickname alludes to 
a traditional Pennsylvania Dutch belief that a person can be placed under 
a hex, or a malevolent spell.[47] Every Lancaster Barnstormers game is 
broadcast by WLAN (1390 AM) and WPDC (1600 AM) with Dave Collins, their 
official announcer. They are the only Atlantic League club and one of a 
small number of minor league baseball teams in the United States with a 
multi-station radio network."[48] Select home games are televised on Blue 
Ridge Cable-11.[49] The Lancaster Barnstormers' official mascot is an anthropomorphic, 
red cow named Cylo. He wears the team's home jersey with striped socks 
and retro-style sneakers. Cylo debuted on March 4, 2005 at the Mascot Roller 
Mill in the Lancaster County village of Mascot. His name in full is Cyloicious 
L. Barnstormer, alluding to Hall of Fame pitcher Cy Young and to the silo, 
representing the county's agricultural heritage.[50] The mascot was designed 
by the Raymond Entertainment Group, which also produces the Phillie Phanatic's 
costume. Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches Disabled 
list ‡ Inactive list § Suspended list Roster updated May 2, 2016 Transactions 
