Lance Williams and Mark Fainaru-Wada co-authored the book Game of Shadows 
while they were reporters for the San Francisco Chronicle. For their investigative 
work in the field of steroids, Williams and Fainaru-Wada were given the 
2004 George Polk Award.[1] In the course of their investigative research, 
Williams and Fainaru-Wada were the first to report that: On May 5, 2006, 
Fainaru-Wada and Williams were subpoenaed to testify before a federal grand 
jury about how they obtained leaked grand jury testimony. On May 31, the 
authors urged United States District Judge Martin Jenkins of San Francisco 
to excuse them from testifying. This appeal was supported by affidavits 
from Washington Post reporters Carl Bernstein and Mark Corallo, a former 
press secretary to former Attorney General John Ashcroft, but was denied 
on August 15, 2006.[2] On Sept 21, 2006, the journalists were sentenced 
to 18 months in prison for contempt of court. The two have repeatedly stated 
that they would go to prison before revealing their sources. The two avoided 
jail time, however, when attorney Troy Ellerman pleaded guilty on Feb. 
14, 2007, to leaking the information, lying to prosecutors, obstructing 
justice and disobeying a court order not to disclose grand jury information. 
The two reporters were awarded the 2007 Dick Schaap Award for Outstanding 
Journalism. Fainaru-Wada left the Chronicle in November 2007 to join ESPN.[3] 
In August 2009, Williams left the Chronicle for California Watch, a new 
West Coast division of the Center for Investigative Reporting.[4] On August 
21, 2006, in an interview with Forrest Wilkinson of RealGM, Lance Williams 
was quoted as saying, "We always thought there was a disconnect between 
the government's interest in steroid use. There's no question that the 
people who put the case [against BALCO] together bent over backwards to 
protect the users of the drugs, first they condoned their use of illegal 
drugs, then they excised all of their names from the court filings. It 
goes on to this day -- this attempt to protect these wealthy athletes." 
Fainaru-Wada also questioned the government's motives, "You have these 
high-profile athletes, multi-million dollar athletes in some cases, who 
were the users of the drugs and, wanting to clean up sports," he contended, 
"[Congress] probably [should] expose those people, and yet, all those athletes 
are protected and their names were hidden from public file, or retracted 
by using generic names such as 'A Major League Baseball player', 'an NFL 
player', those types of things."[5] After having published Game of Shadows, 
it has become a topic for debate as to whether it should be acceptable 
to profit from material illegally disclosed to them. Both Fainaru-Wada 
and Williams claim that they have received little-to-no profit from their 
book, to this point. "We haven't seen anything from royalties yet. All 
I can say is, we're not getting rich, we're not retiring, we're not buying 
new houses, we're not buying mansions or anything like that. I'm not going 
to change my status (Laughs). And I would just say, even if it did, it's 
not relevant. I didn't do this for the money, Lance didn't do this for 
the money; we did this because we love reporting, because this is a great 
story, and because it's an important one, and that's why we did it," Fainaru-Wada 
said in the RealGM article. He also remarked, "Lance has a 'semi-joke' 
that, he did the math, and he makes, in a year, as a reporter for the Chronicle, 
what [Barry] Bonds makes in three innings." Williams went even further, 
saying that they had actually received an advance-payment so that they 
could afford to take time off work to write Game of Shadows.[5] On August 
15, 2006, U.S. District Judge Jeffrey White ordered Fainaru-Wada and Williams 
to comply with their subpoenas and testify, saying that, if they do not, 
they will be held in contempt and incarcerated until such time as they 
decide to talk or if the grand jury expires and has to be thrown out. They 
may also be freed from this obligation if a higher court reverses the ruling. 
The reporters have previously stated that they would rather go to jail 
than testify. Following Judge White's decision to uphold the subpoena, 
public controversy stirred concerning whether or not the two reporters 
should be forced to reveal their sources. While many contend that confidential 
sources have been utilized by the press since the beginning of its existence, 
others believe that by not revealing their confidential sources, Fainaru-Wada 
and Williams are, in effect, obstructing justice and should be punished 
accordingly. Those who believe that confidential sources are necessary 
in reporting often point to the work of Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein 
of The Washington Post and their mysterious source, "Deep Throat," to whom 
they refer several times in their articles detailing the Watergate scandal. 
In an affidavit, California Attorney General Bill Lockyer stated that, 
"To jail a journalist because he protected his source is an assault not 
only on the press, but on Californians as well."[6] Eve Burton, who has 
been the Hearst Corporation lawyer for the two reporters, said, "I think 
that they [Fainaru-Wada and Williams] have the constitutional right to 
protect their sources. I think law-enforcement's interest in determining 
who leaked the information to the press has to be balanced against the 
significant public-reporting that these guys did. Without the laws that 
have protected journalists for the past thirty years," she contended, "We 
wouldn't have had Watergate, we wouldn't have had BALCO, and we won't have 
the next government corruption case that comes along. That's the importance 
to the public in this. The reporters [must] be able to provide public information, 
and without the use of confidential sources -- carefully conceived, properly 
used -- we will not learn about important matters that involve our government." 
Lance Williams also expressed a similar concern, saying, "As far as the 
government coming after us, the world has changed since this story was 
published. In [the days of Woodward and Bernstein], the government was 
not going around the country subpoenaing reporters. This is a very new 
development. It's really an innovation of the current Attorney General, 
as far as I can tell. But the number of reporters subpoenaed in the past 
decade is not very great. And the number subpoenaed recently is a large 
proportion of the number subpoenaed in the past 20 to 25 years. We didn't 
know we were risking jail, we thought [the government] would try to find 
out the sources, but we really did not anticipate that it would get to 
this point. Because as a matter of practice, that wasn't what they were 
doing in those days."[5] On Jan. 18, 2007, John Conyers and Tom Davis sent 
