Lancaster County local /ˈlæŋkᵻstər/, (Pennsylvania German: Lengeschder 
Kaundi) sometimes nicknamed the Garden Spot of America or Pennsylvania 
Dutch Country, is a county located in the south central part of the Commonwealth 
of Pennsylvania.[1] As of the 2010 census, the population was 519,445.[2] 
Its county seat is Lancaster.[3] Lancaster County comprises the Lancaster, 
Pennsylvania Metropolitan Statistical Area. The County of Lancaster is 
a popular tourist destination, with the Amish community there being a major 
attraction. The term Pennsylvania Dutch comes from Pennsylvania German 
language, derived from the German Deutsch ('German'), Dutch Duits ('German'), 
Deitsch ('Dutch' which in this usage has nothing to do with the people 
or language of the Netherlands): they are the descendants of Germans (Deutsche) 
who immigrated in the 18th and 19th centuries for the freedom of religion 
offered by William Penn.[4] They were also attracted by the rich soil and 
mild climate of the area.[5] Also attracted to promises of religious freedom, 
French Huguenots fleeing religious persecution settled this area in 1710.[6] 
[7] There were also significant numbers of English, Welsh and Ulster Scots 
(also known as the Scotch-Irish in the colonies). The area that became 
Lancaster County was part of William Penn's 1681 charter.[8] John Kennerly 
received the first recorded deed from Penn in 1691.[9] Although Matthias 
Kreider was said to have been in the area as early as 1691, there is no 
evidence that any Europeans settled in Lancaster County before 1710.[10] 
Lancaster County was part of Chester County, Pennsylvania until May 10, 
1729, when it was organized as the fourth county in the state.[11] Lancaster 
County was named after the city of Lancaster in the county of Lancashire 
in England, the native home of John Wright, one of the early settlers.[12] 
As settlement increased, six other counties were subsequently formed from 
territory directly taken, in all or in part, from Lancaster County: Berks 
(1752), Cumberland (1750), Dauphin (1785), Lebanon (1813), Northumberland 
(1772), and York (1749).[11] Many other counties were in turn formed from 
these six. Indigenous peoples had occupied the areas along the waterways 
for thousands of years, and established varying cultures. Historic Native 
American tribes in the area at the time of European encounter included 
the Shawnee, Susquehannock, Gawanese, Lenape (or Delaware), and Nanticoke 
peoples, who were from different language families and had distinct cultures.[13] 
Among the earliest recorded inhabitants of the Susquehanna River valley 
were the Iroquoian-speaking Susquehannock, whose name was derived from 
the Lenape term for "Oyster River People". (The Lenape spoke an Algonquian 
language.)[14] The English called them the Conestoga, after the name of 
their principal village, Gan'ochs'a'go'jat'ga ("Roof-place" or "town"), 
anglicized as "Conestoga." [15] Other places occupied by the Susquehannock 
were Ka'ot'sch'ie'ra ("Place-crawfish"), where present-day Chickisalunga 
developed, and Gasch'guch'sa ("Great-fall-in-river"), now called Conewago 
Falls, Lancaster County).[16] Other Native tribes, as well as early European 
settlers, considered the Susquehannock a mighty nation, experts in war 
and trade. They were beaten only by the combined power of the Five Nation 
Iroquois Confederacy, after colonial Maryland withdrew its support. After 
1675, the Susquehannock were totally absorbed by the Iroquois. A handful 
were settled at "New Conestoga," located along the south-bank of the Conestoga 
River in Conestoga Township of the county. They helped staff an Iroquois 
consulate to the English in Maryland and Virginia (and later, Pennsylvania). 
By the 1720s, the colonists considered the Conestoga Indians as a "civilized" 
or "friendly tribe," having been converted in large part to Christianity, 
speaking English as a second language, making brooms and baskets for sale, 
and naming children after their favorite neighbors.[17] The outbreak of 
Pontiac's War in the summer of 1763, coupled with the ineffective policies 
of the provincial government, aroused widespread settler suspicion and 
hatred against all Indians in the frontier counties, without distinguishing 
among hostile and friendly peoples. On December 14, 1763, the Paxton Boys, 
led by Matthew Smith and Capt. Lazarus Stewart, attacked Conestoga, killing 
the six Indians present, and burning all the house and stores. Officials 
sheltered the fourteen survivors of the tribe in protective custody in 
the county jail, but the Paxton Boys returned on December 27, broke into 
the jail, and massacred the remaining Conestoga. The lack of effective 
government control and widespread sympathy in the frontier counties for 
the murderers meant they were never discovered or brought to justice.[18] 
Pennsylvania had a longstanding dispute with Maryland about the southern 
border of the province and Lancaster County. Nine years of armed clashes 
accompanied the Maryland-Pennsylvania boundary dispute, which began soon 
after the 1730 establishment of Wright's Ferry across the Susquehanna River. 
Lord Baltimore believed that his grant[19] to Maryland extended to the 
40th parallel.[20] This was about halfway between present-day Lancaster 
and the town of Willow Street, Pennsylvania. This line of demarcation would 
have resulted in Philadelphia's being included in Maryland. New settlers 
began to cross the Susquehanna. In 1730 the Wright's Ferry services were 
licensed and officially begun. Starting in mid-1730, Thomas Cresap, acting 
on behalf of Lord Baltimore, began confiscating the newly settled farms 
near present-day Peach Bottom and Columbia, Pennsylvania (at the time this 
was not named, but it was first called "Wright's Ferry", as noted on map). 
Believing he controlled this land under his grant, Lord Baltimore wanted 
the income from the lands. He had believed he had a defensible claim established 
on the west bank of the Susquehanna since 1721, and that his demesne and 
grant extended to forty degrees north. If he allowed Pennsylvanians to 
settle his lands without reacting, their squatting would constitute a counter 
claim. Cresap established a second ferry in the upper Conejohela downriver 
from John Wright's, and near Peach Bottom. He demanded that settlers either 
move out or pay Maryland for the right-bank lands. Settlers believed they 
already had rights to these under Pennsylvania grants. Cresap drove off 
settlers by vandalizing farms and killing livestock; he pushed out settlers 
from southern York and Lancaster counties. He gave the abandoned lands 
to his followers. If a follower was arrested by Lancaster authorities, 
the Marylanders broke him out of the lockup. Lord Baltimore negotiated 
a compromise in 1733, but Cresap ignored it and continued his raids. A 
deputy was sent to arrest him in 1734, and Cresap killed him at the door. 
The Pennsylvania governor demanded that Maryland arrest Cresap for murder; 
the Maryland governor instead commissioned him as a captain in the militia. 
In 1736, Cresap was finally arrested; he was jailed until 1737 when the 
King intervened. In 1750, a court decided that, by failing to develop the 
land with settlers, Lord Baltimore had forfeited his rights to a twenty-mile 
(32 km) swath of land.[20] In 1767, a new Pennsylvania-Maryland border 
was officially established by the Mason-Dixon line. The names of the original 
Lancaster County townships reflect the diverse national origins of settlers 
in the new county:[21] two had Welsh names (Caernarvon and Lampeter), three 
had Native American names (Cocalico, Conestoga and Peshtank or Paxton), 
six were English (Warwick, Lancaster, Martic, Sadsbury, Salisbury and Hempfield); 
four were Irish (Donegal, Drumore, Derry, and Leacock), reflecting mostly 
Scots-Irish (or Ulster Scots) from Ulster, a province in the north of Ireland; 
Manheim was German, Lebanon came from the Bible, a basis of all the European 
cultures; and Earl was a translation of the German surname of Graf or Groff.[22] 
Lancaster County's native son James Buchanan, a Democrat, was elected as 
the 15th President of the United States in 1856,[23] the only Pennsylvania 
native to hold the presidency. His home Wheatland is now operated as a 
house museum in Lancaster.[24] Thaddeus Stevens, the noted Radical Republican, 
served Lancaster County in the United States House of Representatives from 
1849–1853 and from 1859 until his death in 1868.[25] Stevens left a $50,000 
bequest to start an orphanage.[26] This property eventually was developed 
as the state-owned Thaddeus Stevens College of Technology. Both men are 
buried in Lancaster.[27] Pennsylvania abolished slavery in 1780, with gradual 
implementation.[28] The existing 6000 slaves in Pennsylvania remained slaves, 
and the registered children of those slaves were enslaved until their 28th 
birthday. The last slave child registered in Pennsylvania was Haley, born 
in 1811, who became a freedman no later than 1839.[29] Pennsylvania was 
fully a free state when the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850 was passed by Congress 
as part of the Compromise of 1850. It regarded slaves brought voluntarily 
to the state by their masters as free, and did not pay compensation if 
the slave chose to take freedom in the state.[citation needed] Immediately 
north of the Mason-Dixon line, bordered by the Susquehanna River which 
had been a traditional route from the Chesapeake Bay watershed into the 
heart of what became Pennsylvania, Lancaster County was an important destination 
of the Underground Railroad in the antebellum years. Many of the people 
of German descent opposed slavery and cooperated in aiding fugitive slaves. 
Local Lancaster County resident Charles Spotts found 17 stations.[30] They 
included hiding places with trap doors, hidden vaults, an underground cave, 
and one with a brick tunnel leading to Octoraro Creek, a tributary of the 
Susquehanna.[citation needed] Edward Gorsuch was not known to beat his 
slaves. As a wealthy Maryland wheat farmer, he had manumitted several slaves 
in their 20s. He allowed his slaves to work for cash elsewhere during the 
slow season. Upon finding some of his wheat missing, he thought his slaves 
sold it to a local farmer. His slaves Noah Buley, Nelson Ford, George Ford, 
and Joshua Hammond, fearing his bad temper, fled across the Mason–Dixon 
line to the farm of William Parker, a mulatto free man and abolitionist 
who lived in Christiana, Pennsylvania. Parker, 29, was member of the Lancaster 
Black Self-Protection Society and known to use violence to defend himself 
and the fugitive slaves who sought refuge in the area.[citation needed] 
Gorsuch obtained four warrants and organized four parties, which set out 
separately with federal marshals to recover his property—the four slaves. 
He was killed and others were wounded. While Gorsuch was legally entitled 
to recover his slaves under the Fugitive Slave Act, it is not clear who 
precipitated the violence. The incident was variously called the "Christiana 
Riot", "Christiana Resistance", the "Christiana Outrage", and the "Christiana 
Tragedy". The Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Society helped provide defense 
for the suspects charged in the case.[citation needed] The event frightened 
slaveholders, as black men not only fought back but prevailed. Some feared 
this would inspire enslaved African Americans and encourage rebelliousness. 
The case was prosecuted in Philadelphia U.S. District Court under the Fugitive 
Slave Act of 1850, which required citizens to cooperate in the capture 
and return of fugitive slaves. The disturbance caused regional and racial 
tensions to flare up more. In the North, it added to the push to abolish 
slavery.[31] In September 1851, the grand jury returned a "true bill" (indictment) 
against 38 suspects, who were held in Philadelphia's Moyamensing Prison 
to await trial. U.S. District Judge John K. Kane ruled that the men could 
be tried for treason.[citation needed] The only person actually tried was 
Castner Hanway, a white man, who on November 15, 1851 was tried for liberating 
slaves taken into custody by U.S. Marshal Kline, as well as for resisting 
arrest, conspiracy, and treason. Hanway's responsibility for the violent 
events was unclear. He was reported as one of the first on the scene where 
Gorsuch and others of his party were attacked, and he and his horse provided 
cover for Dickerson, Gorsuch and Dr. Pearce, who were wounded. The jury 
deliberated 15 minutes before returning a Not Guilty. Among the five defense 
lawyers, recruited by the Pennsylvania Anti-Slavery Society, was U.S. Congressman 
Thaddeus Stevens, who had practiced law in Lancaster County since at least 
1838.[32] The oldest surviving dwelling of European settlers in the county[33] 
is that of Mennonite Bishop Hans Herr, built in 1719. In 1989, Donald Kraybill 
counted 37 distinct religious bodies/organizations, with 289 congregations 
and 41,600 baptized members, among the plain sects who are descendants 
of the Anabaptist Mennonite immigrants to Lancaster County.[34] The Mennonite 
Central Committee in Akron supports relief in disasters[35] and provides 
manpower and material to local organizations for their direction in relief 
efforts.[36] The town of Lititz was originally planned as a closed community, 
founded early in the 1740s by members of the Moravian Church. The town 
eventually grew and welcomed its neighbors. The Moravian Church established 
Linden Hall School for Girls in 1746; it is one of the earliest educational 
institutions in continuous operation in the United States.[37] In addition 
to the Ephrata Cloister, the United Brethren in Christ and the Evangelical 
United Brethren (EUB) trace their beginnings to a 1767 meeting[38] at the 
Isaac Long barn, near the hamlet of Oregon, in West Lampeter Township.[39] 
The EUB, a German Methodist church, merged in 1968 with the traditionally 
English Methodist Episcopal Church to become the United Methodist Church.[40] 
The first Jewish resident was Isaac Miranda[citation needed], from the 
Sephardic Jewish community of London, who owned property before the town 
and county were organized in 1730. Ten years later several Jewish families 
had settled in the town; on February 3, 1747, a deed to Isaac Nunus Ricus 
(Henriques) and Joseph Simon was recorded, conveying 0.5 acres (2,000 m2) 
of land "in trust for the society of Jews settled in and about Lancaster," 
to be used as a place of burial. Today, this cemetery is still in use by;[41] 
it is considered the fourth-oldest Jewish cemetery in the United States. 
In the early 21st century, Lancaster County is home to three synagogues, 
the Orthodox Degel Israel, the Conservative Beth El, and the Reform Shaarai 
Shomayim. In 2003 Rabbi Elazar Green & Shira Green founded the Chabad Jewish 
Enrichment Center, a branch of the Chabad Lubavitch movement, that focuses 
on serving the Jewish students of Franklin and Marshall College, as well 
serving the general community with specific religious services. The larger 
community enjoys a Jewish Community Center which hosts a preschool, and 
a catering hall. The Lancaster Mikvah Association runs a mikveh on Degel 
Israel's property. Central PA Kosher Stand is operated at Dutch Wonderland, 
a seasonal amusement park. This area was also settled by French Huguenots, 
who had fled to England and then the colonies in the late 1600s and early 
1700s to escape religious persecution from Catholics in France. Among the 
first residents of this group was Isaac LeFèvre, who with a group of other 
Huguenots settled in the area of the Pequea Creek. According to the U.S. 
Census Bureau, the county has a total area of 984 square miles (2,550 km2), 
of which 944 square miles (2,440 km2) is land and 40 square miles (100 km2) 
(4.1%) is water.[48] Almost all of Lancaster County is in the Chesapeake 
Bay drainage basin, via the Susquehanna River watershed (the exception 
is a small unnamed tributary of the West Branch of Brandywine Creek that 
rises in eastern Salisbury Township and is part of the Delaware River watershed).[49] 
The major streams in the county (with percent area drained) are: Conestoga 
River and Little Conestoga Creek (31.42%); Pequea Creek (15.02%); Chiques 
Creek (or Chickies Creek, 12.07%); Cocalico Creek (11.25%); Octoraro Creek 
(10.74%); and Conowingo Creek (3.73%).[50] Lancaster County is home to 
Susquehannock State Park, located on 224 acres (91 ha) overlooking the 
Susquehanna River in Drumore Township.[51] One of the three tracts comprising 
William Penn State Forest, the 10-acre (4.0 ha) Cornwall fire tower site, 
is located in northern Penn Township near the Lebanon County border. The 
site, with its 1923 fire tower, was acquired by the state in January, 1935.[52] 
There are also six Pennsylvania State Game Lands for hunting, trapping, 
and fishing located in Lancaster County. They are numbers (with location 
and area): 46 (near Hopeland, 5,035 acres (2,038 ha)), 52 (near Morgantown, 
1,447 acres (586 ha)), 136 (near Kirkwood, 91 acres (37 ha)), 156 (near 
Poplar Grove, 4,537 acres (1,836 ha)), 220 (near Reinholds, 96 acres (39 ha)), 
and 288 (near Martic Forge, 89 acres (36 ha)).[53] The southern border 
of Lancaster county has some protected serpentine barrens, a rare ecosystem 
where toxic metals in the soil inhibit the growth of plants and lead to 
the formation of natural grassland and savanna. These barrens include the 
New Texas Serpentine Barrens, privately owned land managed by The Nature 
Conservancy,[54] and Rock Springs Nature Preserve, a publicly accessible 
preserve with hiking trails owned and managed by the Lancaster County Conservancy.[55] 
Lancaster County, Pennsylvania also leads the nation in farmland preservation. 
Organizations like the Lancaster Farmland Trust, the Lancaster County Agricultural 
Preservation Board, and multiple municipalities work in partnership with 
landowners to preserve their farms and way of life for future generations 
by placing a conservation easement on their property. A conservation easement 
restricts real estate development, commercial and industrial uses, and 
certain other activities on the land that are mutually agreed upon by the 
grantees and the property owner. After giving up their development rights, 
landowners continue to manage and own their properties and may receive 
significant income tax breaks. The conservation easement ensures that the 
land will remain available for agricultural use forever. Lancaster Farmland 
Trust is a private, non-profit organization that works closely with the 
vast Amish and Plain-Sect communities of Lancaster County to ensure their 
farms will retain their agricultural value. Together with the Lancaster 
County Agricultural Preserve Board, the County is approaching a milestone 
of 100,000 acres (40,000 ha) of preserved farmland in the county—a first 
in the nation.[56] The area falls along the general track of the Appalachian 
Mountains along the east coast of the North America. As a result, residual 
seismic activity from ancient faulting occasionally produces minor earthquakes 
of magnitude 3 to 4. For example, on December 27, 2008, shortly after midnight, 
Lancaster County had a 3.3 magnitude earthquake which was widely felt in 
the Susquehanna Valley but caused no damage to structures.[57] The bog 
turtle was first discovered and identified by science in Lancaster County 
by botanist Gotthilf Heinrich Ernst Muhlenberg. Muhlenberg discovered the 
turtle species accidentally while he was conducting a survey of the flora 
in Lancaster County.[58] The species was named Muhlenberg's tortoise in 
1801, but renamed bog turtle, its present common name, in 1956.[58] As 
of the census[65] of 2010, there were 519,445 people. The population density 
was 561 people per square mile (217/km²). There were 193,602 households. 
Of that number 135,401 (69.9%) were families. Of those families, 120,112 
(88.7%) had children under the age of 18. There were 202,952 housing units 
at an average density of 215 per square mile (83/km²). The average household 
size was 2.62 and the average family size was 3.13. In the county the population 
was spread out with 24.8% under the age of 18 and 15.0% who were 65 years 
of age or older. The median age was 38.2 years. For every 100 females there 
were 95.10 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 91.60 
males. 5.58% of the population and 8.37% of the children aged 5–17 reported 
speaking Pennsylvania German, German, or Dutch at home, while a further 
4.97% of the population spoke Spanish.[66] 39.8% were of German, 11.8% 
United States or American, 7.2% Irish and 5.7% English ancestry according 
to the United States Census, 2000. Lancaster County is the second largest 
Amish settlement in the world with around 30,000 people. The Lancaster 
Amish affiliation is relatively liberal concerning the use of technologies 
compared to other Amish affiliation. Lancaster is also home to an array 
of other Plain Anabaptist groups. There are about 3,000 Old Order Mennonites 
of the Groffdale Conference who drive black top buggies instead of the 
grey top buggies of the Amish in Lancaster county. Other horse and buggy 
Old Order Mennonites in Lancaster County are subgroups of the Stauffer 
Mennonites with 283 baptized members and the Reidenbach Mennonites with 
232. There are about 4,000 members of the car driving Weaverland Old Order 
Mennonite Conference. A congregation of 83 members of the Old Order River 
Brethren lives there as well as 84 members of the Reformed Mennonite Church 
who have retained the most conservative form of Plain dress of all Plain 
groups. There are also 74 members of the Old German Baptist Brethren living 
there.[67] The Amish are around 5.7% of the total population. Some inhabitants 
of Lancaster County speak with a Pennsylvania Dutch influenced dialect.[69] 
This dialect is most commonly used in the Lancaster, Lebanon, York, and 
Harrisburg areas, and incorporates influences from the Pennsylvania Dutch 
not only in dialect but also in nomenclature. However, the main difference 
and what people take notice of from outside the area is the Pennsylvania 
Dutch English that people from Lancaster, York, and Harrisburg use.[citation 
needed] The United States Office of Management and Budget has designated 
Lancaster County as the Lancaster, PA Metropolitan Statistical Area.[70] 
The United States Census Bureau ranked the Lancaster, PA Metropolitan Statistical 
Area as the 102nd most populous metropolitan statistical area and the 100th 
most populous primary statistical area of the United States as of July 
1, 2012.[71][72] The Metro area ranks 8th most populous in the state of 
Pennsylvania. As of the 2010 US Census the population was 519,445. For 
decades, Lancaster County has been a Republican stronghold. The GOP controls 
the vast majority of state, county and municipal elected offices in Lancaster 
County.[73] Republicans also hold a plurality of registered voters in the 
county. In September 2008, the Democratic Party reached the benchmark of 
100,000 registered voters for the first time in the county's history.[73][74] 
The party had just 82,171 registered Democrats in 2004.[73] As of 2008[update], 
the ratio of Republicans to Democrats in Lancaster County now stands at 
1.8 Republicans to 1 Democrat, down from a 3-1 advantage for the Republicans 
in the late 1990s.[73] Even with these gains, the only real pockets of 
Democratic influence are in the city of Lancaster itself. As a measure 
of how Republican Lancaster County is, Lyndon Johnson only carried the 
county by 793 votes in his 1964 landslide. The Democrats would not come 
close to carrying the county again until 2008, when Barack Obama tallied 
43 percent of the vote. However, the Democrats had been making gains in 
the county before then; in 2004, John Kerry became the first Democrat in 
28 years to win more than 30 percent of the vote. Source:[78] Sources:,[79][80][81][82][83][84][85][86][87] 
In 2004, the county had a per capita personal income (PCPI) of $30,790, 
only 93% of the national average. This reflects a growth of 4.5% from the 
prior year, versus a 5.0% growth for the nation as a whole.[88] Despite 
the lower income, the county poverty rate in 2003 was just 8.3% compared 
to a national rate of 12.5%. In 2004, federal spending in Lancaster County 
was $4,199 per resident, versus a national average of $7,232.[64] In 2005, 
Lancaster County was 10th of all counties in Pennsylvania with 17.7% of 
its workforce employed in manufacturing; the state averages 13.7%, and 
the leader, Crawford County, has only 25.1%.[89] Lancaster County lags 
in information workers, despite being the corporate headquarters of MapQuest.[90] 
It ranks 31st in the state with only 1.3% of the workforce; the state as 
a whole employs 2.1% in information technology.[91] The county ranks 11th 
in the state in managerial and financial workers, despite having only 12.5% 
of the workforce in those occupations (versus the state average of 12.8%). 
The state leaders are Chester County with 20.5% and Montgomery County with 
18.5%.[92] With only 17.3% working in the professions, Lancaster County 
is 31st in Pennsylvania, compared to a state average of 21.5%. Centre County 
leads with 31.8%, undoubtedly due to Penn State's giant footprint in an 
otherwise rural county, but the upscale Philadelphia suburbs of Montgomery 
County give them 27.2%.[93] Lancaster County ranks even lower, 34th, in 
service workers, with 13.3% of the workforce, compared to a state average 
of 15.8%. Philadelphia County, leads with 20.5%.[94] Lancaster County has 
an unemployment rate of 7.8% as of August 2010. This is a rise from a rate 
of 7.6% the previous year.[95] There are 11,000 companies in Lancaster 
County.[96] The county's largest manufacturing and distributing employers 
at the end of 2003 were Acme Markets, Alumax Mill Products, Anvil International, 
Armstrong World Industries, Bollman Hat, CNH Global, Conestoga Wood Specialties, 
Dart Container, High Industries, Lancaster Laboratories, Pepperidge Farm, 
R R Donnelley & Sons, The Hershey Company, Tyco Electronics, Tyson Foods, 
Warner-Lambert, and Yellow Transportation.[97] Auntie Anne's, Clipper Magazine, 
Lancaster Farming, MapQuest, Turkey Hill Dairy, Clair Global, and Wilbur 
Chocolate Company are Lancaster County-based organizations with an economic 
footprint of regional or national significance. Herley Industries is a 
local producer of microwave and millimeter wave products for the defense 
and aerospace industries. With some of the most fertile non-irrigated soil 
in the U.S., Lancaster County has a strong farming industry.[98][99] Lancaster 
County's 5293 farms, generating $800 million in food, feed and fiber, are 
responsible for nearly a fifth of the state's agricultural output.[100] 
Chester County, with its high-value mushroom farms, is second, with $375 
million.[101] Livestock-raising is responsible for $710 million of that 
$800 million, with dairy accounting for $266 million, poultry and eggs 
accounting for $258 million. Cattle and swine each account for about $90 
million.[100] Agriculture is likely to remain an important part of Lancaster 
County: almost exactly half of Lancaster County's land – 320,000 acres 
(130,000 ha) – is zoned for agriculture, and of those, 276,000 acres (112,000 ha) 
are "effective agricultural zoning", requiring at least 20 acres (8.1 ha) 
per residence.[102] Tourism is a significant industry in Lancaster County, 
employing 47,000.[103] In the 1860s, articles in the Atlantic Monthly and 
Lippincott’s Magazine started tourism in Lancaster County right after the 
Civil War, but it didn't really take off until the 1920s, when the Lincoln 
Highway was built. A New York Times travel article in 1952 brought 25,000 
visitors, and the 1955 Broadway musical Plain and Fancy brought even more, 
but tourism tapered off, after the 1974 gas rationing and the Three Mile 
Island incident led to five years of stagnation.[103] Local tourism officials 
viewed it as deus ex machina when Hollywood stepped in to rescue their 
industry. Harrison Ford, in the popular 1985 movie Witness, played John 
Book, a Philadelphia detective who in turn played "Plain" in order to protect 
Samuel Lapp, an Old Order Amish boy who has witnessed a murder. Predictably, 
John Book falls in love with Rachel Lapp, the boy's widowed mother; the 
movie is less a thriller than a romance about the difficulties faced by 
an English man in love with a Plain widow.[104] The film was nominated 
for eight Oscars, and won two.[105] However, the real winner was Lancaster 
County tourism, as movie-goers found themselves intrigued by the Plain. 
Once again, especially after the 9/11 attacks, tourism in Lancaster County 
has shifted. Instead of families arriving for a three- to four-day stay 
for a general visit, now tourists arrive for a specific event, whether 
it be the rhubarb festival, the "maize maze", to see Thomas the Tank Engine, 
for Sertoma's annual "World's Largest Chicken Barbecue" or for the latest 
show at Sight & Sound Theatres.[103] The tourism industry is discouraged 
by this change, but not despondent: The county also promotes tourist visits 
to the county's numerous historic and picturesque covered bridges by publishing 
driving tours of the bridges.[106] At over 200 bridges still in existence, 
Pennsylvania has more covered bridges than anywhere else in the world, 
and at 29 covered bridges, Lancaster County has the largest share.[107] 
The Lancaster County Convention Center Authority [18] constructed the $170 
million[108] Lancaster County Convention Center in downtown Lancaster on 
the site of the former Watt & Shand building.[109] Other tourist attractions 
include the American Music Theatre, Dutch Wonderland, Ephrata Cloister, 
Ephrata Fair, Hans Herr House, Landis Valley Museum, Pennsylvania Dutch 
Country, Pennsylvania Renaissance Faire (one of the largest Renaissance 
fairs in the world[110]), Railroad Museum of Pennsylvania, Rock Ford plantation, 
Robert Fulton Birthplace, Sight & Sound Theatres, Strasburg Railroad, Wilbur 
Chocolate, Wheatland (James Buchanan House) and Sturgis Pretzel House. 
There are many tours of this historic area including the Downtown Lancaster 
Walking Tour.[111] The colleges of Lancaster County are Eastern Mennonite 
University, Elizabethtown College, Franklin & Marshall College, Harrisburg 
Area Community College, Lancaster Bible College, Lancaster Theological 
Seminary, Millersville University of Pennsylvania, Pennsylvania College 
of Art and Design, Thaddeus Stevens College of Technology and PA College 
of Health Sciences. There are 16 public school districts in the county: 
There is also one charter school, the La Academia Charter School. Lancaster 
Country Day School, an independent day school, is located on the west end 
of Lancaster City. Linden Hall, an independent boarding and day school 
for girls, is located in Lititz. Additionally, Lancaster County has a federated 
library system with 14 member libraries, three branches and a bookmobile. 
The Library System of Lancaster County was established in April 1987 to 
provide well-coordinated countywide services and cooperative programs to 
assist member libraries in meeting the diverse needs of its community residents. 
The Board of Lancaster County Commissioners appoints the Library System 
of Lancaster County's seven-member board of directors. The System is an 
agent of the Commonwealth which supported Pennsylvania and The County of 
Lancaster. Before the Barnstormers, Lancaster was the home of the Lancaster 
Red Roses, which played from 1906 to about 1930, and from 1932 to 1961.[112] 
In 2005, the Lancaster Barnstormers joined the Atlantic League of Professional 
Baseball. The Barnstormers are named after the "barnstorming" players who 
played exhibition games in the county. Their official colors are red, navy 
blue, and khaki, the same as those of the Red Roses. This franchise won 
their first league championship in 2006, only their second season. They 
won their second league championship in 2014 capping off their 10th season 
of existence. They have revived the old baseball rivalry between Lancaster 
and nearby York, called the War of the Roses, when the York Revolution 
started their inaugural season in 2007.[113] The Women's Premier Soccer 
League expanded to Lancaster for the 2008 season, with the Lancaster Inferno. 
The WPSL is a FIFA-recognized women's league. The Inferno is owned by the 
Pennsylvania Classics organization and play their home games at the Hempfield 
High School stadium in Landisville. The Inferno's colors are orange, black, 
and white. Since 2004, the amateur Lancaster Lightning football team of 
the North American Football League has played at Pequea Valley High School's 
football stadium in Kinzers.[114] Lancaster is also the home of the Dutchland 
Derby Rollers (DDR), a member of the Women's Flat Track Derby Association 
(WFTDA.) Founded in 2006, The Dutchland Rollers boast 2 travel teams, the 
All-Stars and the Blitz. Both rosters play teams from neighboring leagues, 
though it is the Dutchland All-Stars that compete for national ranking. 
Their home rink is Overlook Activities Center, and their colors are orange 
and black. From 1946 to 1980, a professional basketball team known as the 
Lancaster Red Roses (as well as the Lancaster Rockets and the Lancaster 
Lightning) played in the Continental Basketball Association.[115] Lying 
on the natural route from Philadelphia to the western part of Pennsylvania, 
Lancaster County has given rise to many improvements in transportation, 
among them the Philadelphia and Lancaster Turnpike, later part of the Lincoln 
Highway, in 1794,[116] a canal in 1820 and the Philadelphia and Columbia 
Railroad in 1834.[117] As of 2006[update], passenger service in Lancaster 
County is provided by Amtrak, whose Keystone Corridor passes through the 
county, with stops at Lancaster, Mount Joy and Elizabethtown. A station 
is planned at Paradise to provide connecting service with the Strasburg 
Railroad, which runs passenger excursions from nearby Leaman Place to Strasburg. 
The principal freight operator in the county is Norfolk Southern Railway 
(NS). The NS main line follows the Susquehanna River (with trackage rights 
for Canadian Pacific Railway (CPR)), and leaves the county by crossing 
the river on Shocks Mills Bridge near Marietta. NS also has trackage rights 
over the Keystone Corridor, to which it is connected by the Royalton Branch, 
which runs north along the river from the main line at Marietta, and the 
Columbia Branch, which runs from the Corridor at Dillerville to the main 
line at Columbia. Two other NS branches originate on the Corridor: the 
Lititz Secondary, which runs from Dillerville to Manheim and ends at Lititz, 
and the New Holland Industrial, which leaves the Corridor around the east 
end of Lancaster to run east to New Holland and ends at East Earl. Several 
shortlines also operate in the county. With the exception of the Strasburg 
Railroad, all are freight railroads. The East Penn Railroad (ESPN) operates 
on a spur off the NS branch to Manheim, and on a longer line in the northeast 
corner of Lancaster County into Berks County. Landisville Terminal and 
Transfer Company (LNTV) operates on a spur off the Amtrak line at Landisville. 
The Tyburn Railroad operates some trackage around Dillerville. Most recently, 
the Columbia and Reading Railway (CORY) began operating on 2.5 miles (4.0 km) 
of track in Columbia in January 2010.[118] Lancaster Airport is the only 
airport in the county with scheduled service, though Smoketown Airport 
also serves general aviation. The following cities, boroughs, and townships 
are located in Lancaster County: Christiana, Pennsylvania is the least 
populated borough in Lancaster County, as of 2010[update].[119] Ephrata 
is the most populous. Census-designated places are geographical areas designated 
by the United States Census Bureau for the purposes of compiling demographic 
data. They are not actual jurisdictions under Pennsylvania law. Many communities 
are neither incorporated nor treated as census-designated places. The population 
ranking of the following table is based on the 2010 census of Lancaster 
County.[120] † county seat Coordinates: 40°02′N 76°15′W﻿ / ﻿40.04°N 76.25°W﻿ 
