Lanny Lawrence Frattare (born March 23, 1948, in Rochester, New York) is 
an American former sportscaster. For 33 years he was a play-by-play announcer 
for Major League Baseball's Pittsburgh Pirates, the longest such tenure 
in the team's history.[1][2] In 2008 he was nominated for the Ford Frick 
Award, which is given by the Baseball Hall of Fame for broadcasting excellence.[3] 
Frattare attended Ithaca College, graduating in 1970. He started his career 
in his home town as a radio disk jockey at the city's top rated station, 
WBBF (AM). During his time in Rochester radio he expanded his on-air role 
to include work as a sportscaster and lead play-by-play broadcaster for 
the American Hockey League's Rochester Americans. As the radio broadcaster 
for the Pirates' AAA affiliate Charleston Charlies in 1974 and 1975, Frattare 
was mentored by then-Pirates broadcaster Bob Prince, who invited Frattare 
to Pittsburgh after the Charlies' seasons concluded and allowed Frattare 
to take over the microphone on occasion.[citation needed] He moved to Pittsburgh 
and joined the Pirates major league broadcasting crew on radio (KDKA) and 
cable television in 1976. He started as Milo Hamilton's junior partner, 
calling just two innings of most games and serving as Hamilton's color 
man. His role began to increase after Hamilton left following the 1979 
season. The Pirates gave Frattare a new contract late in the 2006 season 
that was to keep him on the air through 2009. In August 2008, Lanny announced 
his 5000th Pirates game. He began sharing primary announcing duties with 
Greg Brown, as the Pirates evolved toward a transition that will come with 
Frattare's retirement. On October 1, 2008, Frattare announced he was retiring 
from the Pirate broadcast booth and would not return for the 2009 season. 
Frattare was lead announcer on the ESPN broadcast of the February 23, 1985 
college basketball game between Indiana University and Purdue University 
during which Indiana coach Bob Knight threw a chair across the court, a 
moment which is frequently replayed on television to this day.[citation 
needed] Frattare has two children and two grandchildren from his first 
marriage. He remarried a few years ago to the former choir director of 
Upper St. Clair High School, but the couple separated in late 2007.[citation 
needed] Over the past twenty years, he has hosted the Family Links Golf 
Classic which has raised over $1.6 million in support of mentally challenged 
individuals and their families.[citation needed] As of March 18, 2009, 
Frattare joined Waynesburg University as an assistant professor in Communications 
in the Department of Communication and the faculty adviser of University 
radio station WCYJ-FM, while also doing some work with University Relations.[4][5] 
In 2010, he hosted the inaugural Sports Announcing Camp at Waynesburg University, 
featuring a week of programs and instruction for high school students interested 
in broadcasting. Frattare is also a broadcaster with the MSA Sports Network, 
providing play-by-play coverage and color commentary for WPIAL high school 
