Las Tunas[2][4][5] is a city and municipality in central-eastern Cuba. 
It is the capital of the Las Tunas Province and was named Victoria de Las 
Tunas from 1869 to 1976.[6] The city of Las Tunas is located in along the 
Carretera Central (highway), between the cities of Camagüey, Holguín and 
Bayamo. In 1943 the municipality was divided into the barrios of Primero, 
Segundo, Antonio Machado, Arenas, Caisimú, Cauto del Paso, Cuaba, Curana, 
Dumañuecos, Ojo de Agua, Oriente, Palmarito, Playuelas and San José de 
la Plata.[1] The city is currently divided into the repartos (wards) of 
Primero (city centre), Segundo, La Victoria, Aguilera, Santo Domingo, Pena, 
La Loma, Aurora, Velázquez, Sosa, Casa Piedra, Israel Santos, Buena Vista, 
Alturas de Buena Vista, Propulsión, Aeropuerto and Reparto Militar. The 
city was founded in 1796 around the Parish of San Jerónimo. In 1853, after 
a Royal Decree, it received the title of "city". In 1976, following the 
suppression of the Oriente Province and its split up, Las Tunas became 
the capital of the new and homonym province. In 2004, the municipality 
of Las Tunas had a population of 187,438.[3] With a total area of 891 km2 
(344 sq mi),[2] it has a population density of 210.4/km2 (545/sq mi). Las 
Tunas counts a railway station on the principal Havana-Santiago de Cuba 
line and on a secondary line to Manatí. A planned extension of the A1 motorway, 
that will span the entire island, will interest the City. The local airport 
is the Hermanos Ameijeiras, located in the northern suburb. Known in Cuba 
as the "City of Sculpture" (due to the several artistic installations scattered 
throughout the city centre) Las Tunas is in the least visited province 
in Cuba. In spite of this, the city has two international hotels (Hotel 
Las Tunas and Hotel Cadillac) and 219 B&Bs [7] However, the local and the 
central government are both working in order to increase tourism in the 
province. in July 2015. Within the framework of the Foreign Investment 
Law,[8] the government is trying to attract foreign partners to build large 
hotel complexes in the still unspoilt Covarrubia beach. The local baseball 
club is Las Tunas, nicknamed Leñadores (mean Lumberjacks) and its home 
ground is the Julio Antonio Mella Stadium. The association football club 
is the FC Las Tunas, and its home ground is the Ovidio Torres Stadium. 
