LaSalle is a town in Essex County, Ontario, Canada. It is a bedroom community 
of the City of Windsor and part of the Windsor Census Metropolitan Area, 
and is located south of that city. LaSalle, along with Windsor, is the 
oldest French settlement area in Southwestern Ontario, and the oldest continually 
inhabited European settlement in Canada west of the Quebec border. The 
town was named for explorer René-Robert Cavelier, Sieur de La Salle and 
includes Fighting Island, in the Detroit River at its western side, an 
island that is privately owned by the world's largest chemical company, 
BASF. One of LaSalle's biggest events is the annual Strawberry Festival[2] 
which takes place on the first weekend in June. The annual Lasalle Craft 
Beer Festival, put on by the Corporation of the Town of Lasalle, is also 
in its third year. The festival features a number of different types of 
beer, from popular brands, such as Corona, to smaller microbreweries. In 
LaSalle, most teenagers attend either Sandwich Secondary School or St. 
Thomas of Villanova Catholic Secondary School. The attendance to both is 
relatively close in numbers. The primary schools include Sacred Heart Elementary 
School, Prince Andrew Public School, Lasalle Public School, Sandwich West 
Public School,Ecole Mgr-Augustin-Caron elementary School, and Holy Cross 
Catholic Elementary School. LaSalle also has its own small but growing 
bicycle trail network, the "LaSalle Trail", which links up to neighbouring 
Windsor's "Windsor Trail" network, allowing people to ride from Sandwich 
Secondary School all the way to Windsor's Riverfront Trail. The town has 
expressed interest and intentions to connect LaSalle (and indirectly, Windsor) 
to the Chrysler Canada Greenway by constructing a link to the Trans-Canada 
Trail near Oldcastle, Ontario. The town also features the Vollmer Culture 
and Recreation Complex, home to the Lasalle Vipers, of the GOJHL and the 
Lasalle Sabres, of the OMHA. Plus it is also home to the Lasalle Stompers, 
of the Ontario Soccer Association. The complex has multiple rooms for hosting 
of events, 2 arenas, an Olympic-sized pool and slide, outdoor skate park, 
soccer fields, and baseball diamonds. Population trend:[6] Current Provincial 
Highways: Highway 3 • Highway 77 • Highway 401 Railways: Essex Terminal 
Railway • Windsor Subdivision • Chatham Subdivision • CASO Subdivision 
