Lawrence S. Ritter (May 23, 1922 – February 15, 2004) was an American writer 
whose specialties were economics and baseball. Ritter was a professor of 
economics and finance, and chairman of the Department of Finance at the 
Graduate School of Business Administration of New York University. He also 
edited the academic periodical Journal of Finance from 1964 to 1966.[1] 
He died at age 81 in New York City. His book, Principles of Money, Banking, 
and Financial Markets, coauthored with William L. Silber and Gregory F. 
Udell, has gone through twelve editions and has been a standard college 
text since it was first published in 1974. Ritter is arguably best known 
for writing one of the most famous sports books of all time, The Glory 
of Their Times (1966, updated 1984). He collaborated with another baseball 
historian, Donald Honig, on The Image of Their Greatness (1979) and The 
100 Greatest Baseball Players of All Time (1981, featuring several players 
who would later be dropped in favor of new players on several later all-time 
greats lists). In researching The Glory of Their Times, Ritter travelled 
75,000 miles to interview his subjects, sitting for hours listening to 
them tell their tales into his tape recorder. Ritter's "Existential" style 
of interviewing was to allow his subjects to reminisce freely, rarely prodding 
or probing them on anything. No questions about specific games. No questions 
about what it was like to face certain players. Ritter's technique was 
to get his interviewee comfortable around him, to turn the tape-recorder 
on, and shut up while his subjects spoke. Ritter's style elicited responses 
that other reporters never reach with questions. His most difficult "find" 
was Sam Crawford, who shared the outfield with Ty Cobb in Detroit. After 
being given only cryptic hints about where he might find Crawford, i.e., 
"drive between 175 and 225 miles north of Los Angeles", Crawford's wife 
told Ritter, "and you'll be warm" – Ritter ended up in Baywood Park, California 
where his inquiries yielded nothing. After several days, he sat in a laundromat 
watching his clothes spin beside an old man. Ritter asked him if he knew 
anything about Sam Crawford, the old ball player. The man replied, "Well 
