League Park was a Major League baseball park located in Cincinnati, Ohio, 
United States. It was the home of the Cincinnati Reds from 1884 through 
1901. The ballpark was on an asymmetrical block bounded by Findlay Street 
(south), Western Avenue (northeast, angling), York Street (north) and McLean 
Avenue (west). The "Findlay and Western" intersection was the home field 
of the Reds from 1884 through June 24, 1970, when the team moved to Riverfront 
Stadium. The location of the diamond and consequently the main grandstand 
seating area was shifted several times during the 86½ seasons the Reds 
played on the site. League Park was actually the first of three parks to 
stand on the site: During the Cincinnati Reds' first two seasons, the club 
played at the Bank Street Grounds. Following the 1883 season, the Reds 
were forced to abandon the park, because the lease had been bought out 
from under them by the new Cincinnati entry in the one-year wonder called 
the Union Association. The Reds had to find a new location, and they found 
one less than a mile away from their old park, a few blocks to the southeast 
on Western Avenue, at the northwest corner of where Findlay Street intersected 
Western. Thus the Reds remained in the West End, and fans had only to traverse 
Western Avenue to see the team of their choice. The new facility was variously 
called Cincinnati Base Ball Grounds (or Park), Western Avenue Grounds, 
American Park (while in the AA), and then its most enduring pre-1912 name, 
League Park (beginning 1890). The small grandstand for the new park was 
built in the southeast corner of the block, tucked into the actue angle 
made by the intersection. Although the diamond would be moved back and 
forth between the southeast and the southwest corners several times, the 
little 1884 structure would be retained for 28 seasons, and would come 
in handy. However, it got off to a bad start. It was constructed hastily, 
and during the opening day game a portion of the stand collapsed, killing 
one spectator and injuring several others. The park was also very short 
to right field, with balls hit over the right field fence counting only 
as a double, until additional land was acquired a few weeks into the season. 
This increased the distance to right by 50 feet and made the field normal-sized. 
The first game to be played at American Park was on April 9, 1884. It was 
an exhibition game against the then National League Cleveland Blues. The 
Reds first official home opening day at American Park was on May 1, 1884 
against their American Association rival the Columbus Buckeyes. Cincinnati 
lost that game 10-9 in heartbreaking fashion. The season itself saw a good 
deal of competition between the Reds and the Unions. Although many called 
the Union the "Onion League" due to its lopsided distribution of talent, 
the Cincinnati Unions were a fairly strong team and drew fans away from 
the Reds. Once the Union folded, the Reds opted to remain at Findlay and 
Western, and would continue to do so for the better part of nine decades. 
Thus the Reds had the city to themselves in 1885. Although the Reds were 
not participants in the 1885 World Series, their ballpark was. The contest, 
between the Chicago White Stockings of the NL and the St. Louis Browns 
of the AA, staged some of its games at neutral sites. The Reds' ballpark 
was the site for the final two games of the Series, a disputed match that 
officially ended in a draw. When the Reds returned to the National League 
in 1890, the name of the park would come to be known as League Park, in 
reference to the team's original and now current circuit. In those days, 
the National League was typically referred to in media as "the League", 
since there was only one "League" and (for ten years) one "Association". 
In 1894 the ballpark went through some major changes. The owner of the 
Reds, John Brush, would build a brand new grandstand and add an amphitheater. 
In order to build a new grandstand he had the diamond shifted from the 
southeast corner (Findlay and Western) to the southwest corner (Findlay 
and McLean). Brush chose to retain the old seating as a right field pavilion. 
This would prove to be a wise decision. The name of the ballpark was not 
changed. Because of the relocated diamond, some historians refer to it 
as League Park II. The center field area was painted black in 1895 to form 
a batter's eye screen. Some sources (such as Benson) claim this was the 
first such screen in baseball. On May 28 1900, the ballpark caught on fire, 
burning the 1894 grandstand. The Reds considered moving to East End Park 
where the short-lived "Kelly's Killers" Association club had played in 
1891. Instead, they opted to shift the diamond back to its original location 
in the southeast corner, reusing the original grandstand, which was not 
significantly harmed in the fire due to a gap between the two seating areas. 
They played a month's worth of games on the road, returning to their reconfigured 
home on June 28. After a season and a half of playing in the charred ballpark, 
the Reds built what they expected to be a more permanent new grandstand, 
again in the southwest corner, retaining the original seating, and again 
with a gap between the seating areas that would prove fortuitous. The original 
seating had changed somewhat over time, as the middle section no longer 
sat higher than the rest, and the entire structure was roofed. The look 
of the new grandstand was striking, and the owners christened it Palace 
of the Fans. While the park was still referred to as League Park until 
1911, the grandstand nickname is what the park has become known as today. 
