Leamington is a municipality in Essex County, Ontario, Canada. With a population 
of 28,403, it is the second largest municipality in the Windsor-Essex County 
area (after the separated municipality of Windsor, Ontario). It includes 
Point Pelee, the southernmost point of mainland Canada. Known as the "Tomato 
Capital of Canada", it is the location of a tomato processing factory owned 
by Highbury-Canco, previously owned until 2014 by the Heinz Company. Due 
to its location in the southernmost part of Canada, Leamington uses the 
motto "Sun Parlour of Canada". In 2006, MoneySense Magazine ranked Leamington 
as the No. 1 best place to live in Canada.[4] Leamington was incorporated 
as a village in 1876. The community was named after Royal Leamington Spa 
in England, after having originally been called "Gainesville".[5] It was 
a crossroads hamlet with about 300 residents and was known for its lumber 
products rather than its tomatoes. There were several docks, and fish were 
plentiful in Lake Erie, so much so that sturgeon could be speared from 
the shore and fish was the cheapest food available. Leamington once had 
many tobacco farms but now they are virtually nonexistent. In 1908 the 
H. J. Heinz company came to Leamington, bringing many jobs to the area 
and contributing to Leamington's growth. In the early hours of Sunday, 
June 6, 2010, an F1 tornado ripped through portions of southern Essex County, 
stretching from Harrow, through Kingsville, to southern Leamington before 
dissipating near Point Pelee National Park, creating considerable damage, 
but no loss of life or any direct injuries.[6] Leamington enjoys the second 
warmest climate in Canada, after the Lower Mainland of British Columbia.[citation 
needed] Leamington lies on the 42nd Parallel, the same latitude as Chicago, 
Rome, the northern border of California, and Zaragoza. Leamington is situated 
on the north shore of Lake Erie and is home to Point Pelee National Park, 
a major site for migrating birds especially in the autumn. As such, it 
plays host to many birdwatchers from Canada, the United States, and all 
around the world. The region is also known for the migration of Monarch 
butterflies, which congregate in the fall at Point Pelee before making 
their way across Lake Erie on their route to winter quarters in central 
Mexico. Another important natural area near Leamington is the wetland at 
Hillman Marsh, located six kilometres east of the town. According to the 
Canada 2011 Census there were 28,403 people living in Leamington. The Leamington 
Census agglomeration (metro area) includes Kingsville. Leamington is the 
most populous city on the Canadian side of Lake Erie, with a slightly larger 
population than both Fort Erie and Port Colborne. The majority of people 
from Leamington speak English. According to the 2006 census, 16,915 speak 
English only, 8460 male and 8460 female. Around 600 people speak French 
due to the French school, 10,840 speak other languages such as German, 
Spanish and Arabic, and 45 speak English and French.[9] Residents of Leamington 
include a population of Lebanese, Portuguese and Italian. Mennonite settlers 
have also increased the size of the population. According to the 2011 census, 
the median age of people living in Leamington is 37.2 years - for men the 
age was 37.7 and for women the age was 40.9 years of age.[1] According 
to a 2006 survey 19,365 people are not immigrants while 7,485 are immigrants 
or migrants. The majority of migrants come from Mexico and Jamaica and 
are employed as seasonal farm workers through the Temporary foreign worker 
program in Canada. According to the census, Leamington had the highest 
percentage of Latin Americans in Canada, with 4.9%.[9] Leamington has been 
known for its tourism and attractions and is known as the tomato capital 
of Canada. Leamington's attractions include cycle paths and nearby Point 
Pelee National Park. Leamington also has a large and modern marina. On 
June 6, 2010, a tornado[10] passed through Leamington, Ontario, damaging 
various important landmarks in the town including the Marina. The town's 
water tower, visible for kilometres in the flat southern Ontario landscape, 
is also in the shape and colour of a giant tomato. Celebrating its position 
as an agricultural powerhouse and its heritage as the H. J. Heinz Company's 
centre for processing "red goods," the city hosts a "Tomato Festival" each 
August, as a kickoff of the tomato-harvesting season. Car shows, beauty 
pageants, parades, and a fair are featured at the festival. Leamington's 
position on the north shore of Lake Erie makes it an important recreational 
centre.[citation needed] The tourist information booth in the centre of 
town is a large fiberglass tomato. Leamington has several parks including 
Seacliff Park, The Marina Park, Mersea Park and Garrison Gardens,Henry 
Park and Chestnut Park. Leamington is also home to Point Pelee National 
Park, which contains the southernmost point on mainland Canada and draws 
thousands of visitors annually and is also home to one of the largest migrations 
of Monarch butterflies annually. Leamington has a variety of transportation. 
It has a bicycle path going from the middle of town to the Marina, previously 
the rail line for Heinz. Leamington has two ferries, the (M/V Jiimaan and 
M/V Pelee Islander) owned by the Owen Sound Transportation Company run 
on a regularly scheduled seasonal basis from Leamington to Pelee Island. 
Transportation around Leamington is offered by the Leamington Transit bus 
system. Leamington has a small private airport located four kilometres 
to the east of town. The town is also connected to the provincial highway 
network by Highway 3 (to Windsor), and Highway 77 (to Highway 401). Known 
as the tomato capital of Canada, Leamington became the home of the H. J. 
Heinz factory in 1908. The Heinz products are shipped from Leamington, 
with English and French labels, mostly to the United States. Ketchup and 
baby food are the main products. In November 2013 Heinz announced that 
it would close the Leamington plant in 2014, meaning job losses for 740 
employees at the plant and hundreds more support workers.[11] Due to a 
54-year-old law in Canada, which bans the use of tomato paste in tomato 
juice, Highbury Canco still produces tomato juice and other products for 
Heinz. Around 250 workers still process canned products at the over 100 
year old factory.[12] Leamington has also been known for its greenhouses, 
and now has the largest concentration of commercial greenhouses in all 
of North America, with 1,969 acres (797 ha) of greenhouse vegetable production 
in the general area.[13] Major products of the greenhouse industry, in 
addition to tomatoes, are peppers, cucumbers, roses, and other flowers. 
Hydroponic farming has been very successfully adopted by many greenhouse 
operators in Leamington. Historically, tobacco was an important crop in 
the area, but tobacco production declined in the 1960s and today is virtually 
nonexistent. Migrant workers, mostly Mexican and Caribbean seasonal labourers, 
annually arrive in the region to work in Leamington's greenhouses and farms. 
Several Mexican and Jamaican shops and a Mexican consulate have opened 
to service the migrants. Leamington District Memorial Hospital serves the 
city of Leamington, as well as Essex and Chatham Kent. Opened in 1950, 
LDMH succeeded two smaller healthcare facilities Hopewell Hospital (c. 
1933) and Cottage Hospital (c. 1920).[14] Major healthcare needs can be 
undertaken in nearby Windsor, Ontario. Leamington's weekly newspaper is 
the Southpoint Sun. The weekly newspaper that was Leamington Post ceased 
operations in 2012 after 138 years in publication. Leamington is home to 
two regional commercial radio stations. Leamington is also served by Weatheradio 
Canada station VAZ533, transmitting at 162.475 MHz in the weather band. 
English-language public education for kindergarten through secondary school 
grades in Essex County is administered by the Greater Essex County District 
School Board, along with the Windsor-Essex Catholic District School Board 
which oversees English-language catholic education. French-language public 
and catholic education are overseen by the Conseil scolaire Viamonde and 
the Conseil scolaire de district des écoles catholiques du Sud-Ouest respectively. 
The scope of all of these organizations includes both the County and the 
City of Windsor. Prior to 1998 the Essex County Board of Education operates 
Anglophone secular public schools. Leamington has six public elementary 
schools, Margaret D. Bennie, Mill Street, Queen Elizabeth, Gore Hill, Mount 
Carmel - Blytheswood Public School and East Mersea. Leamington has two 
Catholic elementary schools: Queen of Peace and Saint Louis. Leamington 
also has one French speaking Catholic School, St. Michel. South Shore Christian 
School is a private elementary school located in Leamington. Leamington 
has two main school boards, the Greater Essex County District School Board 
and the Windsor-Essex Catholic School Board. Leamington has three secondary 
schools: Leamington District Secondary School (LDSS); Cardinal Carter Catholic 
High School (Leamington), and U.M.E.I (United Mennonite Education Institute). 
Current Provincial Highways: Highway 3 • Highway 77 • Highway 401 Railways: 
Essex Terminal Railway • Windsor Subdivision • Chatham Subdivision • CASO 
