Lee Gutkind is an American writer, speaker, and literary innovator, founder 
of the literary magazine Creative Nonfiction, the first and the largest 
literary journal to publish narrative/creative nonfiction exclusively. 
Spotlighted in Vanity Fair Magazine in 1997 as “the Godfather behind creative 
nonfiction”, Gutkind has been its most active advocate and practitioner 
both as editor and writer. Gutkind has written or edited more than 30 books, 
immersing himself in diverse worlds, sometimes for months or years, to 
produce creative nonfiction portraits about subjects such as the motorcycle 
subculture, child and adolescent mental illness, baseball umpires, veterinary 
medicine and organ transplantation. Currently he is Distinguished Writer 
in Residence at the Consortium for Science Policy and Outcomes and Professor 
at the School for the Future of Innovation in Society at Arizona State 
University. Gutkind was born in 1945 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and educated 
at the University of Pittsburgh. After high school and service in the United 
States Coast Guard, he worked his way through the University of Pittsburgh 
as a truck driver, traveling shoe salesman and public relations account 
executive, traveling throughout the country promoting the Helium Centennial 
for the U.S. Department of the Interior. After his first book was published, 
Bike Fever, which profiled the motorcycle subculture, he joined Pitt’s 
Department of English where he became the first tenured professor at the 
university without an advanced degree. His immersion experiences into the 
motorcycle subculture, the organ transplant milieu, baseball umpires, and 
in other un-mined worlds about which he has written, along with the literary 
techniques he has developed, has helped to create a new paradigm for writing 
about the world — the “literature of reality” that is creative nonfiction.[1] 
Gutkind is founder and editor of Creative Nonfiction, the first and largest 
literary magazine devoted to nonfiction narrative. He is also editor of 
Best Creative Nonfiction, an annual anthology of creative nonfiction. Gutkind 
is author of You Can't Make This Stuff Up: The Complete Guide to Writing 
Creative Nonfiction, From Memoir to Literary Journalism and Everything 
In Between. Gutkind has written 15 books, and edited 18 collections and 
volumes. In celebration of his impact on the genre, In Fact: The Best of 
Creative Nonfiction, was published in 2004 by W.W. Norton. Book List called 
In Fact “an electrifying anthology . . . an exciting and defining creative 
nonfiction primer.” [1] Vanity Fair Magazine proclaimed Gutkind “the Godfather” 
behind the creative nonfiction movement, and Harper’s Magazine noted that 
he is “the leading figure behind the creative nonfiction movement.” When 
Gutkind began pioneering creative nonfiction, few if any university creative 
writing programs offered courses or degrees, but he saw creative nonfiction 
as a way of connecting students with the real world through what he called 
“the literature of reality.” Today, poets, novelists, journalists, playwrights 
recognize the art and challenge of creative nonfiction, capturing their 
lives and the lives of others through memoir, biography and other forms 
of documentary drama. Gutkind helped found MFA programs in narrative and 
creative nonfiction at Pitt and subsequently at Goucher College in Maryland. 
With Creative Nonfiction magazine, Gutkind has introduced the literature 
of reality to a new set of practitioners—scientists, engineers, policy 
scholars, mathematicians, roboticists, philosophers—outstanding men and 
women– innovators and scholars. At Arizona State University, he founded 
the ThinkWritePublish program, supported by The National Science Foundation 
(Science in Society) and the Templeton Foundation (True Stories About Science 
and Religion). Gutkind has presented his “True Stories That Matter” techniques 
ideas to record-breaking audiences at the National Press Club in Washington, 
to scientists and engineers at the National Academy of Science, to advocates 
at Earth Justice, to teachers and administrators at the Institute for Learning, 
to scholars at the International Design Frontiers national conference, 
to the Council on Healthcare Economics and Policy at Princeton University–and 
to librarians, museums and creative writing programs—from China, to Australia 
to the Middle East. Gutkind founded the creative nonfiction program and 
MFA degree at the University of Pittsburgh, the first in the world. He 
helped found the low residency MFA program in creative nonfiction at Goucher 
College, and was director of the Mid-Atlantic Creative Nonfiction Writers’ 
Conference at Goucher for 11 years. He was the director and founder of 
the 412 Creative Nonfiction Literary Festival for four years, a citywide 
literary event that provides professional development to students and city 
residents and fosters the strength of the local writing community. Gutkind 
also served as the Virginia G. Piper Distinguished Writer in Residence 
at Arizona State University in 2007-2008. Lee Gutkind's list of honorary 
achievements include: The Steve Allan Individual Award, by United Mental 
Health, Inc; Chancellor's Award for Public Service; Meritorious Service 
Award by American Council on Transplantation; Howard Blakeslee Award by 
the American Heart Association for "outstanding journalism; Golden Eagle 
Award by CINE, for the film A Place Just Right; Recipient of National Endowment 
of the Arts Creative Writing Fellowship. In 2004, Gutkind was awarded an 
Honorary Doctorate of Letters from Chatham College. Lee Gutkind’s books 
have been praised for being simultaneously personal and universally informative. 
His award-winning Many Sleepless Nights, an inside chronicle of the world 
of organ transplantation, has been reprinted in Italian, Korean and Japanese 
editions. An Unspoken Art, a profile of veterinary medicine, was a Book-of-the-Month 
Club selection. His book about major league umpires, The Best Seat In Baseball, 
But You Have to Stand!, was called by USA Today "unprecedented, revealing, 
startling and poignant." You Can’t Make This Stuff Up: The Complete Guide 
to Writing Creative Nonfiction, From Memoir to Literary Journalism to Everything 
in Between, is “reminiscent of Stephen King’s fiction handbook On Writing,” 
according to Kirkus Review — "An accessible, indispensable nonfiction guidebook 
from an authority who knows his subject from cover to cover.” Gutkind frequently 
crosses genres as a writer, editor and reporter. He is a published novelist, 
an award-winning documentary filmmaker, and served as a consulting editor 
at National Public Radio in Washington, D.C. teaching narrative techniques 
to reporters, producers and editors on the Science Desk. Also as the former 
director of the writing program at the University of Pittsburgh, Lee Gutkind 
pioneered the teaching of creative nonfiction, conducting workshops and 
presenting readings throughout the United States, Europe, Australia and 
Israel. 978-1937163068 978-1937163259 978-1937163273 978-1937163198 978-1937163211 
B01FGPKIO6 United by the authors’ fervent love of the game, each chapter 
in this book reminds us of the unique role baseball plays in our national 
history and collective imagination. 978-1510702738 978-1937163105 978-1937163167 
978-0692221297 B00F0RWY7U 978-1937163129 978-1937163143 978-1616086039 
