As player As manager As coach Lee Louis Mazzilli (born March 25, 1955), 
is a former Major League Baseball player, coach, and manager. An excellent 
athlete, young Lee was the son of welterweight boxer Libero Mazzilli. Unlike 
most switch hitters, who naturally bat from one side of the plate and train 
themselves to feel comfortable on the other, Mazzilli was naturally ambidextrous, 
and swung the bat both ways from an early age. The sport he most excelled 
in as a junior was speed skating, in which he won eight national championships.[1] 
He graduated from Brooklyn's Lincoln High School in 1973, and was the first 
round selection (14th pick overall) of the hometown New York Mets in the 
1973 Major League Baseball draft. He was quite popular in New York City, 
thanks not only to his talent, but his Brooklyn roots and matinée idol 
looks.[2] While in the minor leagues, Mazzilli set a California League 
record (and what is believed to be a professional record) when he stole 
seven bases in a game for the Mets' minor league affiliate Visalia against 
San Jose on June 8, 1975.[3] In 1979, Mazzilli led the Mets with 181 hits, 
and 79 runs batted in, and was their sole representative at the All-Star 
Game in Seattle. Mazzilli hit a game-tying solo home run in the eighth 
inning of that All-Star Game, and drew a bases-loaded walk in the ninth 
inning to bring in the winning run of the National League's 7–6 victory. 
The following year, he had his best statistical season, leading the Mets 
with 162 hits, 31 doubles, 16 home runs, 76 RBIs, 82 runs, and 41 stolen 
bases. Following the 1981 season, where he hit only .228 and was hampered 
by injuries to his back and elbow, he was traded by the Mets to the Texas 
Rangers. Though initially unpopular with Mets fans, the deal would prove 
to be a good one, bringing minor league pitchers Ron Darling and Walt Terrell 
in return. Darling would go on to be a key starter on Mets' 1986 World 
Series championship team, while Terrell was traded to the Detroit Tigers 
for another important player on that team, third baseman Howard Johnson 
following the 1984 season. Mazzilli played only 58 games with Texas and 
was traded to the New York Yankees for Bucky Dent midway through the 1982 
season. Prior to the 1983 season, Mazzilli was traded to the Pittsburgh 
Pirates for Tim Burke, Don Aubin, John Holland and Jose Rivera. Mazzilli 
and Pirates teammates Dale Berra, Lee Lacy, John Milner and Dave Parker, 
along with several other notable major league players, were called before 
a Pittsburgh grand jury for their involvement in the Pittsburgh cocaine 
distribution trial of Curtis Strong. Their testimony led to the drug trials, 
which made national headlines in September 1985. He and the other players 
brought before the Pittsburgh Grand Jury were granted immunity from prosecution 
in exchange for testimony. The Mets were early favorites to reach the post-season 
in 1986, and prior to the start of the season offered third baseman Ray 
Knight to the Pirates for Mazzilli. The Pirates turned them down.[citation 
needed] The Pirates released him in July 1986, and he re-signed with the 
Mets on August 3.[citation needed] Upon signing with the Mets, Mazzilli 
was assigned to their triple-A affiliate, the Tidewater Tides. This was 
his first tour of duty with the Tides as he had made the jump to the major 
leagues from double-A. On August 7, the Mets released left fielder George 
Foster and called Mazzilli up to the majors. Foster was very critical of 
this move by the Mets, and accused his former employers of racism.[4] Mazzilli 
turned out to be an important part of their championship team. His career 
with the Mets continued until 1989 when he was claimed by the Toronto Blue 
Jays on waivers. Mazzilli retired after the 1989 season, his 14th in the 
major leagues. His final major league at bat came on September 29, 1989 
when the Toronto Blue Jays were hosting the Baltimore Orioles. There was 
a great deal of attention paid to the game, as it was the middle game of 
a three-game series that would decide the winner of the American League 
East. The Baltimore Orioles had beaten even the most optimistic expectations 
and were in first place for much of the 1989 season. Baltimore needed to 
win three games against Toronto to enter post-season play. Baltimore had 
lost the first game. In Mazilli's final at bat came during the second game, 
he hit a double to center field. He was then replaced with a pinch runner 
who eventually scored what turned out to be the game-winning run, ending 
one of the greatest team improvements in American sports history. At the 
end of his career, the versatile Mazzilli took up acting, starring as Tony 
in an off-Broadway production of Tony n' Tina's Wedding.[5] Mazzilli was 
manager of the Baltimore Orioles from 2004 until August 4, 2005. The 2005 
team compiled a surprising record of 42 wins and 30 losses while spending 
62 days in first place in AL East. Its subsequent losing streak led to 
Mazzilli's firing. He was first base coach to the New York Yankees from 
2000 to 2003 and bench coach in 2006.[6] On December 11, 2006, he was hired 
as a studio analyst for Sportsnet New York. He was replaced by Bob Ojeda 
prior to the 2009 season. Mazzilli's brother Fredo introduced him in 1981 
to Danielle Folquet, a host of the New York City edition of PM Magazine. 
They were married at St. Patrick's Cathedral on February 4, 1984.[7] The 
Mazzillis have three children: Lacey, Jenna, and Lee Jr. (known as L.J.) 
L.J. was drafted by the New York Mets in the fourth round of the 2013 Major 
League Baseball draft after playing for the University of Connecticut.[8] 
