Leland Gaither "Lee" Allen (January 12, 1915 – May 20, 1969) was an American 
sportswriter and historian on the subject of baseball. He was known for 
an accessible writing style that made history more interesting, typically 
focusing on the people in the stories as much as the events. A native of 
Cincinnati, Ohio, Allen was the son of U.S. Representative Alfred Gaither 
Allen. After attending Kenyon College as a psychology major, spending a 
semester at the Columbia University School of Journalism, and working for 
the Cincinnati Reds as a publicity director and traveling secretary, he 
began his writing career with the Cincinnati Enquirer, and wrote the Cincinnati 
entry in the Putnam Publishing series on the Major League Baseball teams. 
He authored other books, including histories of the National League and 
American League, the World Series, and a volume about the Giants-Dodgers 
rivalry. He was also a frequent contributor to The Sporting News, including 
articles to their annual publications as well as a weekly column called 
"Cooperstown Corner". In the early 1940s Allen assisted Waite Hoyt on Cincinnati 
Reds radio broadcasts. From 1959 until his death, he was the historian 
at the Baseball Hall of Fame, succeeding Ernest Lanigan. In that capacity, 
and with his substantial collection of biographical information on ballplayers 
(continuing Lanigan's work), he had a great deal of input to the first 
edition of the famous MacMillan Baseball Encyclopedia which was published 
in the same year he died. Although Allen had been inspired as a youth by 
his Hall of Fame predecessor's Baseball Cyclopedia, he was not the "figger 
filbert" that Lanigan was. However, they did share a common interest in 
the personal stories of the ballplayers. This quote from Allen's SABR profile 
highlights their differences and similarities. The first sentence is polar 
opposite to Lanigan's philosophy, the remainder is right in line with Lanigan's 
work: "I care very little for statistics as such. My concern is the players. 
Who are these men? What are they? What problems have they faced? Where 
are they now?" In addition to biographies, Allen was also a pioneer in 
gathering information about baseball parks, and published one of the first 
comprehensive lists of major league ballparks and their locations, in the 
1961 edition of one of The Sporting News publications. He died of a heart 
attack in Syracuse, New York while on a road trip researching a subject 
