In baseball, the lefty-righty switch is a maneuver by which a player that 
struggles against left- or right-handed players is replaced by a player 
who excels in the situation, usually only for the duration of the situation 
in question. For instance, a right-handed pitcher who is weak against left-handed 
hitting and is facing a left-handed hitter would be replaced with a pitcher, 
usually left-handed, who does a superior job of getting a left-handed hitter 
out. Similarly, a batter who has difficulty hitting against a left-handed 
pitcher will sometimes be pinch hit for by a batter who does well, even 
if the original player is superior in other respects. Conventional baseball 
wisdom suggests that, when a pitcher and a hitter pitch or bat with the 
same hand, the pitcher typically has the advantage. This especially holds 
true for left-handed pitchers, as lefties are less common in a major-league 
lineup than righties. As a result, the most common use of the lefty-righty 
switch is when a right-handed pitcher is facing a left-handed batter. The 
manager of the defensive team will sometimes go to the bullpen, especially 
in close games where a reliever has already entered the game, and pull 
out a left-handed specialist to face the left-handed batter. The new pitcher 
will then attempt to get the batter out. Whether he succeeds or fails, 
the pitcher will often be replaced after the at-bat. The lefty-righty switch 
can also be used against switch hitters who are noticeably poorer from 
one side of the plate than the other, or in the somewhat rarer instance 
of a batter who does poorly against opposite-handed pitchers. The basic 
principle in these cases remains the same. It is less common, although 
still frequent, for a batter to be replaced to gain a handedness advantage 
over a pitcher. For instance, with a left-handed pitcher in and a left-handed 
batter due up, a right-handed bat may be called in from the bench. The 
righty may not be as strong an all-round player as the player he replaced 
(thus, his absence from the everyday lineup), but he is a superior tactical 
choice for the purpose of getting on base in one at bat with a favorable 
matchup. Such a batter can be pinch run for if he gets on, replaced with 
a better defensive player for the next half-inning, or simply left in for 
the duration of the game. The two maneuvers sometimes occur in sequence. 
For instance, a manager may be faced with the situation of a right-handed 
reliever facing a strong left-handed bat late in a close game. In such 
a situation, the manager will often call for his left-handed specialist. 
However, if the opposing manager has an adequate right-handed bat on his 
bench, he may pinch hit for the left-handed batter, thus restoring his 
matchup advantage. The rules of baseball dictate that a pitcher must face 
at least one batter once he has entered a game, therefore the defensive 
manager will find himself in the unpleasant situation of having his left-handed 
specialist (who likely seldom sees right-handers in game action and may 
struggle badly against them) against a right-handed hitter. The defensive 
manager, however, may consider this an acceptable tradeoff versus facing 
the original left-handed batter with his right-handed pitcher. Starting 
pitchers, and sometimes long relievers, will often face batters who hit 
from both sides of the plate as a matter of course. This is considered 
a part of their job, and the ability to retire batters from either side 
of the plate is an important asset for any starting pitcher. Most starters, 
especially those who rely on ball movement rather than power, are still 
stronger throwing against one side of the plate, however, the difference 
is often less pronounced than that for pitchers in the bullpen. Late in 
close games, when the starter is tiring and baserunners become more important, 
a starter may be lifted for a specialist, but a starting pitcher is very 
seldom replaced with a specialist without having first worked deep into 
a close ballgame. Similarly, position players must accept facing both left-handed 
and right-handed pitching as part of their job. Managers will usually juggle 
batters who are exceptionally weak against one sort of pitcher so that 
they only face starting pitchers who offer favorable matchups, but it is 
impossible to shield a batter from every instance in which he will face 
a pitcher who has him at a disadvantage. As a result, a position player 
must be prepared at all times to face a lefty-righty switch in a situation 
