In baseball, a left-handed specialist (also known as lefty specialist) 
is a relief pitcher who throws left-handed and specializes in pitching 
to left-handed batters, weak right-handed batters, and switch-hitters who 
bat poorly right-handed.[1] Because baseball practices permanent substitution, 
these pitchers frequently pitch to a very small number of batters in any 
given game (often only one), and rarely pitch to strictly right-handed 
batters. Most Major League Baseball (MLB) teams have several left-handed 
pitchers on their rosters, at least one of whom is a left-handed specialist. 
A left-handed specialist is sometimes called a LOOGY (or Lefty One-Out 
GuY), a term that can be used pejoratively and which was coined by John 
Sickels.[2][3] The pitcher generally has an advantage when his handedness 
is the same as the batter's, and the batter has an advantage when they 
are opposite.[4] This is because a right-handed pitcher's curveball breaks 
to the left, from his own point of view, which causes it to cross the plate 
with its lateral movement away from a right-handed batter but towards a 
left-handed batter (and vice versa for a left-handed pitcher), and because 
batters generally find it easier to hit a ball that is over the plate. 
Furthermore, since most pitchers are right-handed, left-handed batters 
generally have less experience with left-handed pitchers. A left-handed 
pitcher may also be brought in to face a switch-hitter who generally bats 
left-handed, forcing the batter to shift to his less-effective right-handed 
stance or to take the disadvantages of batting left-handed against a left-handed 
pitcher. Research from 2011-2013 has shown that a pinch hitter (usually 
right-handed) is often used when a left-handed reliever is inserted in 
the game, thereby reducing or negating the pitcher's platoon split advantage. 
Only a handful of left-handed relievers face a higher percentage of left-handed 
batters than right-handed batters over the course of a season.[5] In the 
1991 MLB season, there were 28 left-handed relievers who were not their 
team's closer and pitched 45 or more games. Only four averaged fewer than 
an inning per appearance. From 2001 to 2004, over 75 percent of left handed 
relievers meeting those criteria averaged less than one inning. Left-handed 
reliever John Candelaria was one of the early specialists in 1991, pitching 
59 games and averaged .571 innings. In 1992, he allowed no earned runs—excluding 
inherited runners—in 43 of the 50 games. Jesse Orosco became a left-handed 
specialist later in his 24-season career and retired at the age of 46. 
From 1991 to 2003, he never averaged more than an inning pitched per appearance.[6] 
During the 2013 MLB season, there were seven relief pitchers who averaged 
less than two outs recorded per appearance, all of whom were left-handed.[7] 
Joe Thatcher, a left-handed specialist, appeared in 72 games with 39.2 
innings pitched, and had the fewest outs recorded per appearance with 1.6.[8][9][10][11] 
The right-handed specialist (sometimes called a ROOGY, for Righty One-Out 
GuY) is less common than the left-handed specialist, but are occasionally 
featured.[12][13] They almost always throw either sidearm or submarine.[citation 
