The Lehigh Valley (/ˈli.haɪ ˈvæ.li/), known officially by the United States 
Census Bureau and the United States Office of Management and Budget[3] 
as the Allentown–Bethlehem–Easton, PA–NJ Metropolitan Statistical Area 
and referred to colloquially as The Valley,[4] is a metropolitan region 
officially consisting of Carbon, Lehigh and Northampton counties in eastern 
Pennsylvania and Warren county on the western edge of New Jersey, in the 
United States.[5] The Lehigh Valley's largest city, with a population of 
119,104, is Allentown. The Lehigh Valley is the fastest growing and third 
most populous region in the state of Pennsylvania with a population of 
821,623 residents as of the 2010 U.S. Census.[2][6] It is eclipsed in total 
population only by the metropolitan areas of Philadelphia and Pittsburgh 
in Pennsylvania.[2] It is the 64th most populated metropolitan area in 
the United States. Lehigh County, the Valley's largest county in terms 
of overall population, is among the fastest growing in the nation as well, 
ranking in the 79th percentile for population growth between 2010–2012.[6] 
The core population centers are located in southern and central Lehigh 
and Northampton counties along U.S. Route 22 and Interstate 78. In March 
2014, the Lehigh Valley was recognized by business publication Site Selection 
Magazine as being the second-best performing region of its size for economic 
development in the entire United States.[7] It was also ranked by Fortune 
in May 2015 as being among the top 10 best places in the U.S. to locate 
corporate Finance and Information Technology operations for companies, 
such as call centers and IT support.[8] Allentown, the region's largest 
city, was cited as a "national success story" in April 2016 by the Urban 
Land Institute for its downtown redevelopment and transformation, one of 
only six communities nationwide to have been named as such.[9] The Lehigh 
Valley is geologically part of the Great Appalachian Valley. The region 
is named for the Lehigh River, which runs through it, and owes much of 
its development and history to the anthracite supplies, timber, and ores 
which poured down LC&N's Lehigh Canal (1818) and railroads built parallel 
to it. These transportation improvements overcame the countries first energy 
crises due to deforestation in the early 19th century. The Canal operated 
into the Great Depression, feeding ports up and down the Delaware River, 
the Delaware Canal, and transoceanic demand, and was integral to the regional 
industrial revolution in the greater Philadelphia-Trenton-Wilmington. Consequently, 
culturally and historically, the Valley runs from the drainage divide in 
the Solomon Gap just north of Mountain Top where coal flowed up the Ashley 
Planes from the Wyoming Valley coal beds in Luzerne County and across the 
divide, then downhill to the world through White Haven and down through 
the Lehigh Gorge through Jim Thorpe past the historic Mauch Chunk terminus 
of the Summit Hill & Mauch Chunk Railroad (The nation's first roller coaster) 
and 3rd founded Railroad.<xref name=disputes>Historians split hairs with 
weasel words over which railroads were first why... key is which became 
common carriers, which limits the early choices to the B&O Railroad, the 
SH&MC, and the shortline Granite Railroad, which has pride of place, though 
not of volume of commerce. The B&O can claim first regular commercial common 
carrier runs; the SH&MC only being earlier in actual operation, but as 
a subsidiary component to the LC&N several years before it began carrying 
common cargos and passengers to Summit Hill. All three would survive into 
the 1930s. The Lehigh Valley's principal cities are Allentown, Bethlehem, 
and Easton, comprising the Allentown-Bethlehem-Easton metropolitan area. 
The traditional bounds of the region are The Poconos to the north, the 
Delaware River to the east, the boundaries of Berks County and Montgomery 
County to the southwest, and the boundary with Bucks County to the south. 
More recently, however, the area around Phillipsburg, New Jersey west of 
Pohatcong Mountain, parts of upper Bucks County around Quakertown, and 
portions of northeastern Berks County and southern Carbon and Schuylkill 
counties in Pennsylvania are considered outer parts of the Valley. The 
Lehigh Valley is located approximately 60 mi (97 km) north of Philadelphia, 
80 mi (130 km) northeast of Harrisburg, and 90 mi (140 km) west of New 
York City, the country's largest city. The area is home to more than 820,000 
people as of the 2010 U.S. Census. Recent census studies show it to be 
the fastest growing region in Pennsylvania, due in part to its growing 
popularity as a bedroom community for the highly populated neighboring 
regions of Philadelphia, New Jersey and New York City as well as its favorable 
business climate and much lower cost of living in comparison to surrounding 
areas.[10] The Lehigh Valley is geologically and geographically part of 
the Great Appalachian Valley, a region largely made up of limestone that 
stretches along the eastern edge of the Appalachian Mountains. The Lehigh 
Valley is so named because it is composed of an actual valley that lies 
between two mountain ranges, Blue Mountain to the north and South Mountain 
to the south. Lehigh Valley also is considered part of the historic Pennsylvania 
Dutch Country. The United States Office of Management and Budget has designated 
the Lehigh Valley area of Pennsylvania as the Allentown–Bethlehem–Easton, 
PA Metropolitan Statistical Area.[3] The three counties in the Metropolitan 
area are Carbon, Lehigh and Northampton. As of the 2010 United States Census 
the Metro area had a population of 821,173. The Lehigh Valley ranks as 
the third most populous metropolitan areas in the state of Pennsylvania 
and ranks 68th most populous in the United States. The United States Office 
of Management and Budget also has designated the Lehigh Valley area of 
Pennsylvania as part of the larger New York metropolitan area.[3] The larger 
combined area consists of the Lehigh Valley counties of Carbon, Lehigh 
and Northampton as well as Pike County and the Monroe County/East Stroudsburg, 
PA Metropolitan Statistical Areas in Pennsylvania, and several other Metro 
areas from the States of New Jersey and New York. As of the 2010 US Census, 
the population of the CSA was 23,076,664, making it the most populous Combined 
Statistical Area in the United States. The Lehigh Valley has four distinct 
seasons, which typically include humid summers, cold winters, and very 
short and mild springs and falls. At the 2008 American Community Survey 
conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau, the Lehigh Valley had a population 
of 808,210.[13] 87.1% of the population were White American, 4.6% were 
Black or African American, 0.1% were American Indian, 2.3% were Asian American, 
Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander Americans made up 0.1%, 4.3% were 
of some other race, and 1.5% belonged to two or more races. Hispanics and 
Latinos of any race made up 11.3% of the population. The Lehigh Valley 
has seen an influx of residents coming from New Jersey and New York to 
take advantage of the reduced cost of living. The population of the area 
is expected to increase by 227,000 people by 2040.[14] The most common 
industries for residents in are area include educational services, construction 
and health care as of 2009.[15] The Lehigh Valley was recognized by business 
publication Site Selection Magazine in March 2014 as being the second-best 
performing region of its size for economic development in the entire United 
States.[7] The Lehigh Valley is known historically for its production of 
steel, Portland cement and apparel. It had served as a major U.S. center 
of industrial manufacturing since the 1800s but this role had diminished 
significantly in the late 20th century and early 21st century as companies 
moved to offshore locations for these activities. Once a formidable industrial 
and manufacturing powerhouse serving the entire United States, the nationwide 
decline of this industry in the late 20th century and early 2000s led the 
Lehigh Valley to shift its economic focus more towards financial services, 
health care, life sciences and technology as well as becoming a distribution 
hub for some of the largest U.S. markets due to its comparatively low cost 
of living and proximity to some of the nation's largest metropolitan areas.[16] 
However, a recent movement to reestablish manufacturing activities in the 
United States driven by customer demand for American made products, faster 
product delivery, increased overseas wages, and inflated costs of shipping 
has led to a sizeable increase in the local manufacturing base and rapidly 
growing interest in the region. Few other areas in the country are able 
to offer such comparatively low costs of living and doing business, including 
low energy costs, tax incentives and overnight distribution access to more 
than one-third the total population of the United States. Several large 
manufacturing companies from countries such as China and Germany have already 
invested tens of millions of dollars into establishing significant operations 
in the Lehigh Valley with the potential to create thousands of new local 
jobs in this sector.[17] After the demise of Bethlehem Steel, Lehigh Valley 
Hospital and Health Network (in Allentown), one of Pennsylvania's largest 
hospital systems, replaced it as the Lehigh Valley's largest employer. 
As of 2014, the Lehigh Valley's top ten employers are: 1.) Lehigh Valley 
Hospital and Health Network, 2.) St. Luke's Hospital and Health Network, 
3.) Air Products & Chemicals, 4.) PPL Corporation, 5.) Giant-Carlisle, 
6.) PPL, 7.) Sands Casino Resort Bethlehem, 8.) Sodexo, 9.) B. Braun Medical, 
10.) Amazon.com[18] The Lehigh Valley is centrally located in the Northeast 
Megalopolis with ease of access and close proximity to several of the largest 
markets, population centers, airports, terminals, railways and seaports 
in the United States including both the New York City and Philadelphia 
metropolitan areas. The Lehigh Valley is also situated within a one-day 
drive to more than one third of the total population of the United States 
and more than one half of the total population of Canada.[19][20] The Lehigh 
Valley has a lower cost of living, more affordable real estate, lower taxes 
and a more affordable labor pool than most other Northeastern US regions.[15] 
These attributes and others, such as sizable investments in business development 
and a friendlier regulatory environment, provide the area with an attractive 
business climate in comparison to surrounding states and areas.[10][20][21][22][23] 
Due in large part to the aforementioned comparably favorable business climate, 
the Lehigh Valley has experienced success in luring large, established 
businesses as well as new startup companies from nearby states such as 
New York and New Jersey, bringing with them upwards of thousands of new 
jobs to the area.[10][24] Large companies such as Amazon.com have praised 
the region for its commitment to business investments and incentives, citing 
them as a major reason for continuing expansions and increased hiring in 
the Lehigh Valley.[25][26] Further reaffirming this advantageous business 
and economic environment, the Lehigh Valley was recognized by business 
publication Site Selection Magazine in March 2014 as being the second-best 
performing region of its size for economic development in the United States.[7] 
It was also ranked by Fortune in May 2015 as being amongst the top 10 best 
places in the U.S. to locate corporate finance and information technology 
operations for companies, such as call centers and IT support.[8] Large 
national and international companies based in the Lehigh Valley include 
LSI Corporation (in Allentown), Avantor Performance Materials (Center Valley), 
Air Products & Chemicals (in Trexlertown), Bethlehem Steel (which ceased 
operations in 2003, in Bethlehem), Crayola LLC (in Easton), Buckeye Partners 
(in Emmaus), Heidelberg Cement (in Fogelsville), Just Born (in Bethlehem), 
Lutron Electronics (in Coopersburg), Mack Trucks (in Allentown), Olympus 
Corporation USA (in Center Valley), OraSure Technologies (in Behlehem), 
PPL Corporation (in Allentown), Rodale Press (in Emmaus), Sands Casino 
Resort Bethlehem, Dun & Bradstreet (in Center Valley), Synchronoss Technologies 
(Bethlehem), Victaulic (in Easton), and many others. The Norfolk Southern 
Railway (owned by the Norfolk Southern Corporation), is the Lehigh Valley's 
major rail operator. Norfolk Southern Railway uses the former Lehigh Valley 
Railroad's main line, the Lehigh Line and also uses a former Reading Company 
(Reading Railroad) branch line, the Reading Line. Norfolk Southern Railway 
has major classification rail yards in Allentown and Bethlehem. The Lehigh 
Valley is also one of the largest areas on the East Coast for the location 
of warehouses and distribution centers. Companies that own and operate 
warehouses and distribution centers in the Lehigh Valley include Amazon.com, 
B. Braun, Boston Beer Company (brewer of Samuel Adams brand beer), BMW, 
Bridgestone, FedEx SmartPost, Home Depot, J. C. Penney, Nestlé Purina, 
ShopRite, The Coca-Cola Company, True Value, Uline and many others. Most 
of these distribution centers are located along the U.S. Route 22, Interstate 
78 and Interstate 476 corridors. The Boston Beer Company operates its largest 
production brewery facility in the Lehigh Valley (in Breinigsville), which 
produces more than 2/3rds of all Samuel Adams beer in the world. The company 
continues to upgrade and expand operations at this facility and has cited 
the location as central to the company's success.[27] Due to Pennsylvania's 
lack of an excise tax on cigars, the Lehigh Valley is also home to some 
of the United States' largest cigar distributors and retailers.[28] Pennsylvania 
is ranked 26th in the nation in the production of renewable, notably solar, 
energy.[29] The Lehigh Valley boasts one of the largest solar panel installations 
in Pennsylvania and is a leading producer of solar and other renewable 
energy in the region. As an example, Air Products & Chemicals, in Trexlertown, 
installed and maintains a 15-acre solar farm which generates more than 
half the required electricity for their corporate headquarters, saving 
an estimated $250,000 per year in utility costs. The comparatively large 
solar industry in the Lehigh Valley is due mostly to a combination of federal, 
state and local incentive programs which make using renewable energy sources 
more cost effective than in years past.[29] The Lehigh Valley is home to 
many retail establishments. The largest retail area of the Lehigh Valley 
is the Pennsylvania Route 145/MacArthur Road Corridor, just north of Allentown. 
It is anchored by the Lehigh Valley Mall and the Whitehall Mall. Other 
malls in the region include Palmer Park Mall (in Easton), Phillipsburg 
Mall (in Phillipsburg, New Jersey), South Mall (in Allentown), and the 
Westgate Mall (in Bethlehem). In October 2006, a new Valley-based shopping 
mall, The Promenade Shops at Saucon Valley, was opened. Located off Route 
309 in Upper Saucon Township, The Promenade is roughly half the size of 
the Lehigh Valley Mall, but features more upscale stores. In 2011, The 
Outlets at Sands Bethlehem opened at the Sands Casino in Bethlehem, becoming 
the first outlet mall in the Lehigh Valley.[30] Yocco's Hot Dogs, the regionally-famous 
fast food establishment known for their hot dogs and cheesesteaks, maintains 
six locations, all of which are based in the Lehigh Valley. Its original 
restaurant, founded in 1922, is still located at its original center city 
Allentown location, on West Liberty Street. Five additional Yocco's locations 
can be found in the Lehigh Valley (in west-side Allentown, east-side Allentown, 
Emmaus, Fogelsville, and Wescosville). The Lehigh Valley is part of the 
Philadelphia television market, and also receives television stations from 
New York City and Scranton/Wilkes Barre. Lehigh Valley-based stations include 
WBPH-TV, an affiliate of FamilyNet, a Christian network licensed to Bethlehem 
but based in Allentown; WFMZ-TV, an independent commercial television station 
based in Allentown; and WLVT-TV, a PBS station licensed to Allentown but 
based in Bethlehem. The Lehigh Valley is home to over 35 radio stations, 
spanning multiple formats, including news, talk, and sports, CHR/pop music, 
country music, National Public Radio, sports radio, oldies, polka, hot 
adult contemporary, soft rock, classic rock, hard rock, and a variety of 
college radio stations. Lehigh Valley-based daily newspapers include the 
Allentown The Morning Call and the Easton The Express-Times, both with 
rich traditions dating back to the mid-1800s. The Lehigh Valley also features 
Lehigh Valley and Pocono Sports Extra (a monthly all sports publication), 
Lehigh Valley Style (a regional lifestyle publication), Lehigh Valley Magazine 
(the region's oldest lifestyle publication), Lehigh Valley Exposed (an 
alternative news and entertainment weekly), and four Spanish language newspapers, 
Al Dia, El Hispano, El Torero, and La Cronica. Lehigh Valley community 
publications include The Blue Mountain Town & Country Gazette in the northern 
part of the Valley. The Lehigh Valley is a center of post-secondary education, 
with several four-year colleges and universities. These include: The Lehigh 
Valley is also home to three two-year colleges: As the third most populous 
metropolitan region in Pennsylvania, the Lehigh Valley is served by numerous 
school districts, public and private high schools, middle schools, and 
elementary schools. Lehigh Valley-based high schools include: The largest 
Lehigh Valley high schools (12 in all) compete athletically in the East 
Penn Conference. Smaller Lehigh Valley high schools compete in the Colonial 
League. In addition to its exceptional high school athletic teams, the 
Lehigh Valley is known nationally for their excellent math team, the Lehigh 
Valley Fire. The team has won the ARML competition in 2005 and every year 
since 2009. They also placed highly in previous years.[31] From 1996 until 
2012, the Lehigh Valley was the home of pre-season training camp for the 
NFL's Philadelphia Eagles, which was held each summer on the practice fields 
of Lehigh University in Bethlehem. The Lehigh Valley Storm, a semi-professional 
football team, is based in Bethlehem. The Lehigh Valley also is home to 
the Lehigh Valley Steelhawks, a Professional Indoor Football League team, 
which began playing their home games at Stabler Arena in Bethlehem in 2011. 
In early 2008, Coca-Cola Park, an 8,100-seat Minor League baseball stadium, 
opened in east-side Allentown.[32] The stadium hosts the Lehigh Valley 
IronPigs, the Philadelphia Phillies' AAA-level International League franchise. 
The team previously played as the Ottawa Lynx (1993–2007).[33] The club's 
move to the Lehigh Valley brought the franchise closer to Philadelphia 
and the Phillies' large eastern Pennsylvania fan base. The team's name 
is a reference to pig iron, a key ingredient in the steel-making process 
for which the Lehigh Valley area is known worldwide. Groundbreaking ceremonies 
for Coca-Cola Park were held September 6, 2006, and construction was completed 
in December 2007. The stadium hosted its first game on March 30, 2008, 
when the Phillies major league team faced the IronPigs. In March 2011, 
plans were announced for the creation of PPL Center, an 8,500-seat arena 
to be built in Allentown as the home for the Lehigh Valley Phantoms, the 
American Hockey League affiliate of the Philadelphia Flyers. The Phantoms 
began play in Allentown starting with the 2014–15 season. The arena is 
located in downtown Allentown taking up the entire block between 7th and 
8th Streets and Hamilton Boulevard and Linden Street. In a controversial 
decision, the city had declared eminent domain to help obtain the necessary 
properties and a contractor was chosen in 2012. Buildings on the site began 
to be demolished to make room for the new arena in January 2012.[34] The 
Lehigh Valley is also home to a strong collegiate football rivalry, between 
two local colleges: Easton's Lafayette College and Bethlehem's Lehigh University. 
The two teams have played each other 150 times since 1884, making it the 
longest uninterrupted rivalry in college football.[35] The 12 largest high 
schools in the Lehigh Valley compete athletically in the Lehigh Valley 
Conference. The conference has produced numerous professional and Olympic-level 
athletes, and its football, basketball and wrestling teams are often ranked 
among the best in the nation. In USA Today's annual ranking of the nation's 
top high school sports teams, Liberty High School was ranked second in 
the Eastern United States in football in 2008 and 20th among all high schools 
nationally. Parkland High School was ranked fifth in the East in football 
in 2002 and 11th among all high schools nationally. And Allentown Central 
Catholic High School was ranked seventh in girls' basketball in the East 
in both 2001–02 and 2002–03.[36] Multiple Lehigh Valley Conference athletes 
have gone of to professional careers in Major League Baseball, the National 
Basketball Association, and the National Football League. An additional 
14 Lehigh Valley high schools too small to compete in the Lehigh Valley 
Conference compete in the Colonial League. Parkettes National Gymnastics 
Training Center, which has been the training ground for numerous Olympians 
and U.S. national gymnastics champions, is based in Allentown. In 2003, 
CNN aired a documentary on Parkettes, Achieving the Perfect 10, which depicted 
it as a hugely demanding and competitive training program. Lehigh Valley 
Rollergirls (LVRG) is a women's flat track roller derby league based in 
the Lehigh Valley. Founded in January 2006, Lehigh Valley Rollergirls was 
the first skater-operated flat track roller derby league in the Lehigh 
Valley. LVRG is a member of the Women's Flat Track Derby Association and 
competes against national and international teams. It hosts its home matches 
at Hamburg Field House in Hamburg. The Lehigh Valley hosts the Lehigh Valley 
15K Road Race annually in September. It is one of the premiere eastern 
Pennsylvania running events. The Lehigh Valley Hospital Marathon, which 
features a certified marathon, five-person team relay, 20-mile (32 km) 
training run and 5K walk is also held annually in September. The 42.195-kilometre 
(26.219 mi) course follows the Lehigh River Canal Towpath from Allentown 
to Easton. Runner's World magazine, which is based out of Emmaus, has also 
held the Runner's World Half Marathon and Festival in Bethlehem every October 
since 2012. The Lehigh Valley also plays host to one of the largest cross 
country events in the nation. Lehigh University's Paul Short Run is held 
annually at the Goodman Cross Country Course and participation has climbed 
to over 5,000 runners spread throughout 14 college and high school races. 
The Emmaus 5K race is held annually in mid-October, coinciding with Emmaus' 
annual Halloween parade.[37] The Allentown Art Museum, based in center 
city Allentown, is the Lehigh Valley's largest museum. The museum's collection 
includes more than 11,000 works of art. Lehigh University's Zoellner Arts 
Center and Lafayette College's smaller Williams Center for the Arts host 
a wide variety of plays, concerts and performances throughout the year. 
Bethlehem is also home to ArtsQuest, a non-profit that promotes Visual 
and Performing Arts in the Lehigh Valley. The ArtsQuest center and Steelstacks 
campus on the site of the former Bethlehem Steel Company have several performing 
arts venues including the Levitt Pavilion and the Musikfest Cafe. The Banana 
Factory in Southside Bethlehem has several art studios and galleries open 
to the public. Artsquest also hosts Musikfest every year in August. Musikfest 
is the largest free music festival in the country, bringing more than 1 
million people to the region annually. The Lehigh Valley is home to Dorney 
Park & Wildwater Kingdom, a popular amusement and water park. Located in 
South Whitehall Township, Dorney Park is known nationally for its elaborate 
roller coasters and water rides. The region's ski resorts are Bear Creek 
Ski and Recreation Area and Blue Mountain Ski Area. Bear Creek is a 21 
slope resort located outside of Macungie, Pennsylvania. Blue Mountain is 
located near Danielsville, Pennsylvania. The Poconos, which feature some 
of the East Coast's best-known ski resorts, is approximately 30 miles (48 km) 
north of the Lehigh Valley. Several large lakes used for boating and fishing 
also are located there. Pocono Raceway in the Poconos holds two NASCAR 
race weekends a year along with an IndyCar race. The region also hosts 
some of the best hiking in eastern Pennsylvania, including 30 miles of 
trails at the Trexler Nature Preserve. New Jersey shore beaches are approximately 
70 to 140 miles (110 to 230 km) to the east and southeast of the Lehigh 
Valley. Dutch Springs, the nation's largest SCUBA amusement park, is in 
Bethlehem and Lower Nazareth Township. Over 40,000 divers annually utilize 
the facilities, which have sunken "treasures" to enhance the underwater 
experience. In addition to scuba diving, kayaking and paddle boats are 
available. The facility has a water park, camping grounds, and picnic areas. 
In 2009, Sands Casino Resort Bethlehem, an $879 million casino, hotel and 
apartment complex owned by the Las Vegas Sands, opened in Bethlehem, bringing 
legalized gambling to the Lehigh Valley for the first time. It is one of 
only 13 authorized gaming sites in Pennsylvania. Many large festivals are 
held each year in the Lehigh Valley. Musikfest, a large, 10-day music festival, 
is held in Bethlehem each August. Mayfair Festival of the Arts, a visual 
and performing arts festival, is held in the Allentown Fairgrounds each 
May. In September, one of the largest Celtic heritage festivals in America, 
The Celtic Classic, is held in Bethlehem. The Great Allentown Fair has 
been held on the grounds of the Allentown Fairgrounds in Allentown annually 
in late August through early September for more than 150 years. Das Awkscht 
Fescht is an antique car festival that is held annually the beginning of 
August in Macungie's Memorial Park. Ice skating (including ice hockey, 
figure skating and speed skating) is popular in the Lehigh Valley and the 
region has three facilities. The Steel Ice Center is the premier ice skating 
facility, in Bethlehem on East 1st Street, not far from the Sands Casino. 
The Rink, formerly Lehigh Valley Ice Arena, is in Whitehall (north of Allentown) 
just off MacArthur Road (Route 145) on 7th Street. Each facility has two 
ice surfaces and public skate times are available at both facilities. The 
City of Bethlehem also opens a covered outdoor rink (one ice surface) annually 
from November through March. The Bethlehem Skateplaza is a city park for 
skateboarding and freestyle BMX riding located at 1325 Steel Avenue, in 
Bethlehem. The Lehigh Valley is served by air transportation through Lehigh 
Valley International Airport (IATA: ABE, ICAO: KABE), in the Lehigh Valley's 
Hanover Township, three miles (5 km) northeast of Allentown. The Valley 
is also served by Allentown Queen City Municipal Airport, a two-runway 
general aviation facility located off Allentown's Lehigh Street. Queen 
City is used predominantly by private aviation. The airport was awarded 
General Aviation Airport of the year by the Eastern Region of the Federal 
Aviation Administration in 2006.[39] Public bus service in Lehigh Valley 
is available through the Lehigh and Northampton Transportation Authority, 
known as LANTA. In New Jersey, bus service is provided by New Jersey Transit. 
Several private bus lines, including Bieber Tourways, Susquehanna Trailways 
and Trans-Bridge Lines, provide bus service from various Valley locations 
to New York City's Port Authority Bus Terminal, Philadelphia's Greyhound 
Terminal, Atlantic City's Bus Terminal, and other regional locations. Passenger 
service to the Lehigh Valley ceased in 1981 when several rail operators 
opted to curtail long-distance services. From the south, SEPTA Regional 
Rail limited their services to their electrified-only territory with trains 
going only as far north as Lansdale and Doylestown, Pennsylvania. (In the 
early and mid twentieth century golden age of passenger rail, the Reading 
Railroad provided rail service south and west of the area.[40][41]) To 
the east, the Central Railroad of New Jersey ceased passenger operations 
into the area, from Jersey City, New Jersey, in 1967 in conjunction with 
the Aldene Connection. The Lehigh Valley Railroad, primarily using its 
main line, served the areas with freight transporting along with the Lehigh 
& Hudson River Railway and the Lehigh & New England Railroad. In 1974, 
passenger service was restored to Phillipsburg under state (New Jersey) 
subsidy. That service was terminated in 1984. All of the original railroads 
ultimately went bankrupt and were taken over by today's railroads. SEPTA 
removed the tracks approaching Allentown and Bethlehem from the south. 
The nearest rail station for travel south towards Philadelphia is in Lansdale, 
Pennsylvania on SEPTA's Lansdale/Doylestown Line. The nearest station for 
travel eastward is High Bridge, New Jersey on New Jersey Transit Rail Operations's 
Raritan Valley Line. Current operator New Jersey Transit has looked at 
restoring rail service to Phillipsburg, New Jersey, but there are no official 
plans to extend service over the border into Pennsylvania at present. Nor 
are there official plans to restore SEPTA service to Philadelphia. Freight 
operator Norfolk Southern Railway, heavily serves the region with a major 
classification yards in Allentown and Bethlehem using the former Lehigh 
Valley Railroad main line and the former Reading Company branch line, the 
Lehigh Line and the Reading Line. Canadian Pacific Railway, another freight 
operator, also transports through the Lehigh Valley using the Lehigh Line 
and the Reading Line. In November 2008, the Lehigh Valley Economic Development 
Corporation (LVEDC), along with both Lehigh and Northampton Counties, commissioned 
a study to explore the merits of expanding New Jersey Transit rail to the 
Lehigh Valley, which would potentially include stops in Allentown, Bethlehem 
and Easton.[42] The Lehigh Valley is currently the largest metropolitan 
area by population on the East Coast of the United States without passenger 
rail service of any kind.[43][44] If plan succeeds, the Lehigh Line will 
then once again host passenger services since 1961. The Lehigh Valley has 
four major highways: Interstate 78, a major east-west highway, runs through 
the southern part of the Valley, duplexed with Pennsylvania Route 309. 
I-78 runs from Lebanon County in the west, where Interstate 81 provides 
a connection to Harrisburg, to the Holland Tunnel and New York City in 
the east. U.S. Route 22 is a major freeway that runs through the Valley 
from Kuhnsville in the western part of the Valley to Easton in the eastern 
part of the Valley. U.S. Route 22 starts in Cincinnati, Ohio in the west, 
running through the Valley to Newark, New Jersey in the east. A third highway, 
Pennsylvania Route 33, runs north-south through the Lehigh Valley, from 
the Poconos in the north to Northampton County in the south. The fourth 
major highway in the Valley is Interstate 476, the Northeast Extension 
of the Pennsylvania Turnpike. It stretches 131 miles (211 km) from Chester 
in the south to the Scranton–Wilkes Barre area in the north. Other major 
roads in the Valley include MacArthur Road (PA 145), a divided local road 
that leads to the Lehigh Valley Mall and its surrounding commercial district. 
Cedar Crest Boulevard, a north-south highway, runs from North Whitehall 
Township in the north through west-side Allentown to Emmaus in the south. 
Lehigh Street runs from northeast to southwest, originating in downtown 
Allentown and ending in Emmaus. Tilghman Street runs from Fogelsville in 
the west to continue as Union Boulevard into Bethlehem in the east. Tilghman 
Street runs through most of Allentown and also intersects with Cedar Crest 
Boulevard, Pennsylvania Route 100, Pennsylvania Route 309 and several other 
major Lehigh Valley highways. The Lehigh Valley area was once served only 
by the 215 area code from 1947 (when the North American Numbering Plan 
of the Bell System went into effect) until 1994. With the region's growing 
population, however, Lehigh Valley areas were afforded area code 610 in 
1994. Today, the Lehigh Valley is covered by 610. An overlay area code, 
484, was added to the 610 service area in 1999.[45] A plan to introduce 
area code 835 as an additional overlay was rescinded in 2001.[46] The Lehigh 
Valley AVA was designated an official American Viticultural Area in March, 
2008. The wine region includes 230 acres (93 ha) of vineyards, planted 
to several Vitis vinifera and French-American hybrid grape varieties. Blue 
Mountain Vineyards in New Tripoli accounts of over 50 acres in the region 
and has won national and international awards. Fifteen to twenty percent 
of the wine produced commercially in Pennsylvania is made from grapes grown 
in the Lehigh Valley AVA.[47] The Lehigh Valley is the birthplace or home 
