The Lehigh Valley IronPigs are a minor league baseball team that plays 
in the International League. The IronPigs are the Triple-A affiliate of 
the Philadelphia Phillies. The team plays their home games at Coca-Cola 
Park, which is located in Allentown, Pennsylvania. The brand new Coca-Cola 
Park, which opened for the start of the IronPigs' first season in 2008, 
seats up to 8,100, with a capacity of 10,000, and cost $50.25 million to 
complete.[1] In 2016, Forbes listed the IronPigs as the fourth-most valuable 
Minor League Baseball team with a value of $43 million.[2] The IronPigs 
name is a reference to pig iron, used in the manufacturing of steel, for 
which the Lehigh Valley region of Pennsylvania is world-renowned. The Lehigh 
Valley IronPigs were founded in 1993 as the Ottawa Lynx. The team previously 
played at Ottawa Baseball Stadium located in Ottawa, Ontario from 1993–2007 
before moving to Allentown to become Lehigh Valley IronPigs. As the Lynx, 
the team was affiliated with three MLB clubs which were the Montreal Expos 
from 1993–2002, the Baltimore Orioles from 2003–2006, and the Philadelphia 
Phillies for the 2007 season only which was also the last season for the 
Ottawa Lynx playing in Ottawa. The Lynx were the only International League 
franchise based in Canada at the time of their existence. Before the Philadelphia 
Phillies affiliated with the Ottawa Lynx, the Phillies' Triple-A affiliate 
was the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Red Barons. The Red Barons existed from 1987–2006, 
and played their home games at PNC Field in Moosic, Pennsylvania. Today, 
the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Red Barons are known as the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre 
RailRiders and are now serving as the Triple-A affiliate of the New York 
Yankees. Unhappy with the local management that owned the Red Barons (currently 
Yankees), the Phillies decided to pursue their interest in bringing professional 
baseball back to Allentown. In response, the Phillies switched their affiliation 
from the Red Barons to the Ottawa Lynx, right after the Orioles ended their 
affiliation with the Lynx. The Phillies signed a one-year Player Development 
Contract (PDC) with the Lynx while Coca-Cola Park was being constructed. 
After the completion of the new Coca-Cola Park, the team was then relocated 
to the Lehigh Valley area in 2008 to become the IronPigs after serving 
fifteen consecutive seasons in Ottawa as the Ottawa Lynx. During the club's 
last years as the Ottawa Lynx, the team had difficulty attracting fans, 
which was one of several factors why the team relocated. The relocation 
of the Lynx to Allentown to become the IronPigs has been extremely well 
received, since the Phillies have a large fan base in the Allentown area, 
and because the move to Allentown will permit Phillies' players to rehab 
in Allentown without significant transportation time as compared to Ottawa 
or Scranton/Wilkes-Barre (Allentown is 60 miles (97 km) north of Philadelphia). 
The name IronPigs was well received by the fans in the Lehigh Valley. Prior 
to the arrival of the IronPigs, the Lehigh Valley did not have a Minor 
League-affiliated baseball team since 1960, when the Allentown Red Sox 
left for Johnstown, Pennsylvania.[3] The Allentown Red Sox played at Breadon 
Field (later called Max Hess Stadium) from 1958–1960, at the site where 
the Lehigh Valley Mall stands today.[4] The region was previously home 
to two independent baseball teams: the Allentown Ambassadors of the Northeast 
League and the Lehigh Valley Black Diamonds of the Atlantic League of Professional 
Baseball. The Ambassadors played at Bicentennial Park in Allentown until 
the team was disbanded in 2004. The Black Diamonds moved from Newburgh, 
New York in 1999 and were expected to move into a new ballpark near Easton 
called the Lehigh Valley Multi-Purpose Sport Complex, but the project never 
came to completion and ultimately was terminated. While the Black Diamonds 
waited for their new stadium, they played as a traveling team. In 2003, 
Joseph Finley and Craig Stein began actively pursuing their interest in 
bringing affiliated baseball back to Allentown. Initially, the duo pursued 
a Single-A franchise when the Ottawa Lynx, the AAA affiliate of the Baltimore 
Orioles at the time, were rumored to be moving to Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. 
When the city of Harrisburg did not upgrade Metro Bank Park to AAA standards, 
the Baltimore Orioles shifted their interest to Allentown because of its 
proximity to the Mid-Atlantic. The Phillies also looked into moving their 
AAA operations to Allentown from the Scranton/ Wilkes-Barre region. For 
the 2007 season, the Phillies shifted their AAA affiliate to Ottawa, leaving 
Scranton/ Wilkes-Barre after 18 seasons, while the Orioles affiliated with 
the Norfolk Tides. The Lynx relocated to Allentown as the Triple-A affiliate 
of the Phillies instead of being relocated as the Orioles Triple-A affiliate. 
In 2008, the Lehigh Valley IronPigs opened their first season with an 11-game 
losing streak. On April 14, the team broke the streak, defeating the Richmond 
Braves 3–1 at their new home stadium Coca-Cola Park. The win was both the 
team's first home win and their first ever as the IronPigs. Early on in 
the season Philadelphia Phillies center fielder Shane Victorino made a 
rehab start with the IronPigs. In July, Phillies starter Brett Myers pitched 
a few games for the team after running up a dismal 3–9 record in the first 
part of the season. In 2009, former Phillies' pitchers Kyle Kendrick and 
J. C. Romero pitched for the team. Kendrick was assigned to the IronPigs 
after failing to make the Phillies starting roster for 2009. Romero pitched 
for the IronPigs in May 2009 following a 50-game suspension for failing 
Major League Baseball's substance abuse policy, after he tested positive 
for the use of androstenedione. On July 14, Coca-Cola Park hosted the Triple-A 
All-Star Game, and the game was broadcast on the MLB Network. On July 7, 
left-handed pitcher J.A. Happ started a rehab assignment with the IronPigs. 
On July 29, Happ was traded to the Houston Astros for right-handed pitcher 
Roy Oswalt. Relief pitcher Michael Schwimer had a 1.35 ERA and held batters 
to a .080 batting average with runners in scoring position.[5] The team 
finished in fifth place in the International League North Division with 
a record of 58–86.[6] The IronPigs finished the 2010 season ranked first 
among all affiliated Minor League Baseball teams in average attendance 
per home game. On April 7, 2011, the IronPigs won their season opener against 
the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Yankees at Coca-Cola Park, registering the first 
win-loss percentage above .500 in the team's history.[7][full citation 
needed] Before he was promoted to the majors, All-Star closer Michael Schwimer 
was 9–1 with a 1.88 ERA, and 10 saves, with 86 strikeouts in 67.0 innings 
(averaging 11.6 strikeouts per 9 innings).[8][9][10][11] In September 2011, 
the IronPigs made it to the Governors' Cup finals, losing to the Columbus 
Clippers three games to one.[12] The team's 2011 regular season record 
of 80-64 was the best record since the team was started. The IronPigs finished 
the 2012 season with 75 wins and 68 losses, for a win-loss percentage of 
.524. The team was 8½ games behind the leader of the International League 
North Division, the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Yankees. The IronPigs had the 
highest attendance in the league with 622,421. On December 1, 2007, the 
IronPigs selected "PorkChop" as the name of their mascot from 7,300 submitted 
names. On December 2, 2007, the name was changed to Ferrous, derived from 
the chemical name for iron, because of complaints from the local Puerto 
Rican population, who alleged that "Pork Chop" was a racist term, despite 
the name being submitted by a young girl who lived in the Lehigh Valley 
area.[13] The current mascots for the Lehigh Valley IronPigs are Ferrous 
and FeFe. Ferrous wears the number 26, which is the atomic number for iron. 
FeFe is named after the abbreviation for iron, Fe.[14] The IronPigs franchise 
broadcasts all 72 of its home games on television, a rarity for a minor 
league team. Local cable outlet Service Electric TV2 carries the IronPigs 
games, covering most of the Lehigh Valley region of Pennsylvania. In addition, 
TV2 feeds the telecasts to Blue Ridge Cable TV-13 for broadcast to other 
areas in the eastern part of the state. In addition, select Saturday night 
home games are telecast on WFMZ-TV 69, which serves the Lehigh Valley as 
well as the northern Philadelphia market and western New Jersey. All 144 
IronPigs games are also broadcast on WEEX, an Easton, Pennsylvania-based 
ESPN Radio affiliate. Former in-game reporter Meredith Marakovits is now 
a field reporter for the New York Yankees games on WPIX-TV and YES Network, 
sideline reporter for the Philadelphia 76ers on Comcast SportsNet Philadelphia, 
contributor for WFAN (660 AM) radio in New York, N.Y. The Lehigh Valley 
IronPigs also added a dark blue jersey for Sunday games at the beginning 
of the 2014 season. The team also has an alternate all black jersey set 
for Friday evening home games. [15] Jersey sleeve logo Batting practice 
Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches 7-day disabled 
list * On Philadelphia Phillies 40-man roster # Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve 
list ‡ Restricted list § Suspended list † Temporary inactive list Roster 
updated September 22, 2016 Transactions → More MiLB rosters → Philadelphia 
