Leigh Montville (born July 20, 1943 in New Haven, Connecticut) is a newspaper 
columnist who currently writes a weekly column for The Boston Globe, a 
sports reporter and author. He is a graduate of the University of Connecticut. 
Montville is married to Diane Foster and has two children. He lives in 
Massachusetts and is an ardent supporter of the Boston Red Sox. Montville 
was a longtime print journalist as a columnist for The Boston Globe as 
a senior writer with Sports Illustrated. He spent 21 years at the Globe, 
many of them with other legendary Globe sports writers Peter Gammons, Bob 
Ryan, and Will McDonough. On Nov. 11, 2013, he rejoined The Globe as a 
part-time columnist. He has authored many books, including best-sellers 
such as The Big Bam, a biography of New York Yankees baseball legend Babe 
Ruth, and Ted Williams: The Biography of an American Hero, about the Hall 
of Fame left fielder for the Red Sox, which won the 2004 CASEY Award for 
best baseball book of the year.[1] He also wrote At the Altar of Speed: 
The Fast Life and Tragic Death of Dale Earnhardt, and Manute: The Center 
of Two Worlds, about former 7'7" NBA center Manute Bol. He wrote the book 
Why Not Us? following the 2004 World Series won by the Red Sox after 86 
years of fan suffering. Montville recounts the stories of long-suffering 
fans, including himself, and includes a large section from the Red Sox 
web site Sons of Sam Horn where fans posted their own stories. Montville 
co-authored the book Dare to Dream: Connecticut Basketball's Remarkable 
March to the National Championship with UConn head coach Jim Calhoun. Calhoun, 
along with Montville, a UConn graduate, recounts his humble beginnings 
at Northeastern University through his move to the University of Connecticut 
and finally the men's program's first title in 1999. In the 1990s, Montville 
provided commentary for the short-lived cable network CNN-Sports Illustrated. 
His 2008 book The Mysterious Montague: A True Tale of Hollywood, Golf and 
Armed Robbery told the true story of John Montague, a 1930s California-based 
amateur called "the greatest golfer in the world" by sportswriting legend 
Grantland Rice, who later turned out to be a fugitive wanted for armed 
