As player As manager Leo Ernest Durocher (July 27, 1905 – October 7, 1991), 
nicknamed Leo the Lip and Lippy, was an American professional baseball 
player, manager and coach. He played in Major League Baseball as an infielder. 
Upon his retirement, he ranked fifth all-time among managers with 2,009 
career victories, second only to John McGraw in National League history. 
Durocher still ranks tenth in career wins by a manager. A controversial 
and outspoken character, Durocher had a stormy career dogged by clashes 
with authority, umpires (his 95 career ejections as a manager trailed only 
McGraw when he retired, and still rank fourth on the all-time list), and 
the press. Durocher was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1994. Leo 
Durocher was born in West Springfield, Massachusetts, on July 27, 1905, 
the youngest of four sons born to French Canadian parents. He was educated 
locally and became a prominent semi-professional athlete, with several 
employers competing to have him play on their company teams.[1] After being 
scouted by the New York Yankees, he broke into professional baseball with 
the Hartford Senators of the Eastern League in 1925. He was called up to 
the Yankees and played in two games. Durocher spent two more seasons in 
the minors, playing for the Atlanta Crackers of the Southern Association 
in 1926 and St. Paul Saints of the American Association in 1927.[2] Durocher 
rejoined the Yankees in 1928. A regular player, he was nicknamed "The All-American 
Out" by Babe Ruth.[3] Durocher was a favorite of Yankee manager Miller 
Huggins, who saw in him the seeds of a great manager — the competitiveness, 
the passion, the ego, the facility for remembering situations. Durocher's 
outspokenness did not endear him to Yankee ownership, however, and his 
habit of passing bad checks to finance his expensive tastes in clothes 
and nightlife annoyed Yankee general manager Ed Barrow. Durocher helped 
the team win their second consecutive World Series title in 1928. He demanded 
a raise and he was sold to the Cincinnati Reds in 1930. Durocher spent 
the remainder of his professional career in the National League. After 
three years with the Cincinnati Reds, he was traded to the St. Louis Cardinals 
in mid-1933. Upon joining the Cardinals he was assigned uniform number 
2,[4] which he wore for the rest of his career, as player, coach and manager. 
That team, whose famous nickname "Gashouse Gang" was supposedly inspired 
by Durocher, were a far more appropriate match for him; in St. Louis, Durocher's 
characteristics as a fiery player and vicious bench jockey were given full 
rein. Durocher remained with the Cardinals through the 1937 season, captaining 
the team and winning the 1934 World Series (their third title in nine years) 
before being traded to the Brooklyn Dodgers. Primarily a shortstop, Durocher 
played through 1945, though his last year as a regular was 1939; after 
that year he never played more than 42 games in a season. He was known 
as a solid fielder but a poor hitter. In 5,350 career at bats, he batted 
.247, hit 24 home runs and had 567 runs batted in. He was named to the 
NL's All-Star team three times, once with St. Louis and twice with the 
Dodgers. In 1938 he made history of a sort by making the final out in Johnny 
Vander Meer's second consecutive no-hitter.[5] After the 1938 season — 
Durocher's first year as Brooklyn's starting shortstop — he was appointed 
player-manager by the Dodgers' new president and general manager, Larry 
MacPhail. The two were a successful and combustible combination. MacPhail 
spared no expense in purchasing and trading for useful players (and sometimes 
outright stars), such as Dolph Camilli, Billy Herman and Kirby Higbe. He 
also purchased shortstop Pee Wee Reese from the Boston Red Sox, who impressed 
Durocher enough that he gave up his spot as the regular shortstop so Reese 
could get a chance to play. Other major purchases by MacPhail included 
another young star, Pete Reiser, when he was ruled a free agent from the 
Cardinals' farm system; and MacPhail found stalwarts such as American League 
veterans Dixie Walker and Whitlow Wyatt off the waiver wire. In his first 
season as player-manager, Durocher came into his own. The most enduring 
image of Durocher is of him standing toe-to-toe with an umpire, vehemently 
arguing his case until his inevitable ejection from the game. Durocher's 
fiery temper and willingness to scrap came to epitomize the position for 
which he was to become most famous. As manager he valued these same traits 
in his players. His philosophy was best expressed in the phrase for which 
he is best, albeit inaccurately, remembered: "Nice guys finish last" (Durocher's 
actual phrasing "Nice guys, finish last" was a pair of clause fragments 
describing a team). Durocher once said, "Look at Mel Ott over there. He's 
a nice guy, and he finishes second. Now look at the Brat (Eddie Stanky). 
He can't hit, can't run, can't field. He's no nice guy, but all the little 
son-of-a-bitch can do is win." Durocher was also notorious for ordering 
his pitchers to hit batters. Whenever he wanted a batter hit, he would 
yell, "Stick it in his ear!" In 1939 the Dodgers were coming off six straight 
losing seasons, but Durocher led a quick turnaround. In 1941, his third 
season as manager, he led the Dodgers to a 100–54 record and the National 
League pennant, their first in 21 years. In the 1941 World Series the Dodgers 
lost to the Yankees in five games. They bettered their record in 1942, 
winning 104 games but just missing out on winning a second consecutive 
pennant. Despite all the success of his first three years, Durocher and 
MacPhail had a tempestuous relationship. MacPhail was a notorious drinker, 
and he was as hot-tempered as his manager. He often fired Durocher in the 
midst of a night of drinking. The following morning, however, MacPhail 
inevitably hired Durocher back. Finally, at the end of the 1942 season, 
MacPhail's tenure with the Dodgers came to an end when he resigned to rejoin 
the United States Army. His replacement, former Cardinal boss Branch Rickey, 
retained Durocher as skipper. Durocher managed the Dodgers continuously 
through 1946 (having ceased as a player during the 1945 season), and led 
Brooklyn to the first postseason NL playoff series in history, where they 
lost to the Cardinals, two games to none. Durocher also clashed regularly 
with Commissioner Albert "Happy" Chandler. Chandler, who had been named 
to the post in 1945, warned Durocher to stay away from some of his old 
friends who were gamblers, bookmakers, or had mob connections, and who 
had a free rein at Ebbets Field. Durocher was particularly close with actor 
George Raft, with whom he shared a Los Angeles house, and he admitted to 
a nodding acquaintance with Bugsy Siegel. Durocher, who encouraged and 
participated in card schools within the clubhouse, was something of a pool 
shark himself and a friend to many pool hustlers. He also followed horse 
racing closely. Matters came to a head when Durocher's affair with married 
actress Laraine Day became public knowledge, drawing criticism from Brooklyn's 
influential Catholic Youth Organization.[6] The two later eloped and married 
in Texas in 1947.[7] In the 1950s, Day hosted a radio program called Day 
with the Giants, and later authored a book by the same title describing 
the life of a manager's wife. The saying "nice guys finish last" is a condensation 
by journalists of a quotation by Durocher[9] — he did not originally say 
this form himself, though it has often been attributed to him, and he did 
appropriate it as his own. The original quotation was "The nice guys are 
all over there, in seventh place" (July 6, 1946)[10][11] about the 1946 
New York Giants — seventh place was next to last place in the National 
League. This was shortly afterwards rendered as "‘Nice Guys’ Wind Up in 
Last Place, Scoffs Lippy",[12] thence its present form.[11] Durocher is 
also credited with popularizing the metaphorical use of the phrase "capture 
lightning in a bottle" in a baseball context — it had previously been used 
to literally refer to Benjamin Franklin's kite experiment. In his autobiography, 
Nice Guys Finish Last (1975), Durocher quoted himself incorrectly, 29 years 
afterward, as his sayings were contradicted by the contemporary records 
(see references above), although they show his philosophy, as epitomized 
in this maxim: The Giants, led by Mel Ott, began to come out of their dugout 
to take their warm-up. Without missing a beat, I said, "Take a look at 
that Number Four there. A nicer guy never drew breath than that man there." 
I called off his players’ names as they came marching up the steps behind 
him, "Walker Cooper, Mize, Marshall, Kerr, Gordon, Thomson. Take a look 
at them. All nice guys. They’ll finish last. Nice guys. Finish last." I 
said, "They lose a ball game, they go home, they have a nice dinner, they 
put their heads down on the pillow and go to sleep. Poor Mel Ott, he can’t 
sleep at night. He wants to win, he's got a job to do for the owner of 
the ball club. But that doesn’t concern the players, they’re all getting 
good money." I said, "you surround yourself with this type of player, they’re 
real nice guys, sure — ‘Howarya, Howarya’ and you’re going to finish down 
in the cellar with them. Because they think they’re giving you one hundred 
percent on the ball field and they’re not. Give me some scratching, diving, 
hungry ballplayers who come to kill you. Now, Stanky's the nicest gentleman 
who ever drew breath, but when the bell rings you’re his mortal enemy. 
That's the kind of a guy I want playing for me." That was the context. 
To explain why Eddie Stanky was so valuable to me by comparing him to a 
group of far more talented players who were — in fact — in last place. 
Frankie Graham did write it up that way. In that respect, Graham was the 
most remarkable reporter I ever met. He would sit there and never take 
a note, and then you’d pick up the paper and find yourself quoted word 
for word. But the other writers who picked it up ran two sentences together 
to make it sound as if I were saying that you couldn’t be a decent person 
and succeed. During spring training 1947, Durocher became involved in an 
unseemly feud with Larry MacPhail, who had become a new co-owner of the 
Yankees. The Yankee boss had hired away two coaches from Durocher's 1946 
staff (Chuck Dressen and Red Corriden) during the off-season, causing friction. 
Then, matters got worse. In person, Durocher and MacPhail exchanged a series 
of accusations and counter-accusations, with each suggesting the other 
invited gamblers into their clubhouses. In the press, a ghostwritten article 
appeared under Durocher's name in the Brooklyn Eagle, seeking to stir the 
rivalry between their respective clubs and accusing baseball of a double 
standard for Chandler's warning him against his associations but not MacPhail 
or other baseball executives. Chandler was pressured by MacPhail, a close 
friend who was pivotal in having him appointed Commissioner, but the commissioner 
also discovered Durocher and Raft might have run a rigged crap game that 
took an active ballplayer for a large sum of money. (The player's identity 
was never confirmed officially, but a former Detroit Tiger pitcher, Elden 
Auker, wrote in his 2002 memoir that it was a then-current Tiger pitcher, 
Dizzy Trout.) Chandler suspended Durocher for the 1947 season for "association 
with known gamblers".[13] Before being suspended, however, Durocher played 
a noteworthy role in erasing baseball's color line. In the spring of 1947, 
he let it be known that he would not tolerate the dissent of those players 
on the team who opposed Jackie Robinson's joining the club, saying: He 
greatly admired Robinson for his hustle and aggression, calling him "a 
Durocher with talent." While Durocher sat out his suspension, the Dodgers 
went on to win the NL pennant under an interim skipper, scout Burt Shotton. 
They then went on to lose the 1947 World Series to MacPhail's Yankees in 
seven games. Durocher returned for the 1948 season, but his outspoken personality 
and poor results on the field again caused friction with Rickey, and on 
July 16 Durocher, Rickey and New York Giants owner Horace Stoneham negotiated 
a deal whereby Durocher was let out of his Brooklyn contract to take over 
the Dodgers' cross-town rivals. He enjoyed perhaps his greatest success 
with the Giants, and possibly a measure of sweet revenge against the Dodgers, 
as the Giants won the 1951 NL pennant in a playoff against Brooklyn, ultimately 
triumphing on Bobby Thomson's historic game-winning "Shot 'Heard 'Round 
The World" home run. Later with the Giants in 1954, Durocher won his only 
World Series championship as a manager by sweeping the heavily favored 
Cleveland Indians, who posted the highest American League winning percentage 
of all time (111–43) during the regular season. After leaving the Giants 
following the 1955 season, Durocher worked at NBC, where he was a color 
commentator on the Major League Baseball on NBC and host of The NBC Comedy 
Hour and Jackpot Bowling. He later served as a coach for the Dodgers, by 
then relocated to Los Angeles, from 1961 to 1964. During this period, Durocher, 
who had made his screen debut in the 1943 Red Skelton comedy Whistling 
in Brooklyn, played himself in many television shows.[14] In an April 10, 
1963 airing of The Beverly Hillbillies, Durocher plays golf with Jed Clampett 
(Buddy Ebsen) and Jethro Bodine (Max Baer, Jr.) and tries to sign Jethro 
to a baseball contract after discovering Jethro has a strong pitching arm.[15] 
In an episode of The Munsters titled "Herman the Rookie," on April 8, 1965, 
Durocher believes Herman (Fred Gwynne) is the next Mickey Mantle when he 
sees the towering Munster hit long home runs. Football great Elroy Hirsch 
also appears with Durocher.[16] Three years earlier, he also appeared as 
himself in an episode of Mr. Ed, when the talking horse gave batting tips 
to the Los Angeles Dodgers, helping them win the pennant.[17] Durocher 
also appeared on television in the early 1950s on the syndicated What's 
My Line? twice as a mystery guest (January 28, 1951 and May 31, 1953).[18][19] 
Durocher returned to the managerial ranks in 1966 with the Chicago Cubs. 
In several previous seasons, the Cubs had tried an experiment called the 
"College of Coaches", in which they were led by a "head coach" rather than 
a manager. However, at his first press conference, Durocher formally announced 
an end to the experiment by saying: At the same press conference, Durocher 
declared, "I am not the manager of an eighth place team." He was right; 
the Cubs finished tenth in his first season, becoming the first team to 
finish behind the previously hapless New York Mets. In 1967, however, the 
Cubs started strongly and had only their second winning season since 1946. 
The team steadily improved, but in 1969, Durocher suffered one of his most 
remembered failures. The Cubs started the season on a tear, and led the 
newly created National League East for 105 days. By mid-August they had 
a seemingly insurmountable 9-game cushion, and they appeared to be a shoo-in 
for their first postseason appearance in 25 years. However, they floundered 
down the stretch, and finished eight games behind the "Miracle Mets" (who 
were 9½ games back in mid-August). In a mid-July series against the Mets, 
the Cubs were beaten in the first two games at Shea Stadium,[21] but finally 
managed to salvage the third game, after which Durocher was asked if those 
were the real Cubs. '"No", Durocher answered, "those are the real Mets." 
While with the Cubs, Durocher encountered a difficult dilemma in regard 
to aging superstar Ernie Banks. While Banks' bad knees made him a liability, 
his legendary status made benching him impossible. Durocher also nearly 
came to blows with Cubs star Ron Santo during an infamous clubhouse near-riot. 
The problems were symbolic of Durocher's difficulty in managing the new 
breed of wealthier, more outspoken players who had come up during his long 
career. He was fired midway through the 1972 season, later stating that 
his greatest regret in baseball was not being able to win a pennant for 
longtime Cubs owner P.K. Wrigley. Durocher managed the Houston Astros for 
the final 31 games of the 1972 season and the entire 1973 season before 
retiring. He made a brief comeback in 1976 in the Japanese Pacific League 
with the Taiheiyo Club Lions, but he retired due to illness (hepatitis) 
before the beginning of the season.[22] Durocher finished his managerial 
career with a 2008–1709 record for a .540 winning percentage. He posted 
a winning record with each of the four teams he led, and was the first 
manager to win 500 games with three different clubs. Durocher, with Ed 
Linn, wrote a memoir titled Nice Guys Finish Last, a book that was recently 
re-published by the University of Chicago Press. Leo Durocher died in 1991 
in Palm Springs, California at the age of 86, and is buried in Forest Lawn, 
Hollywood Hills Cemetery in Los Angeles.[23] He was posthumously inducted 
into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1994. Durocher was married four times. 
He was married to Ruby Hartley from 1930 to 1934. He was married to St. 
Louis socialite Grace Dozier from 1934 to 1943. In 1947 he married actress 
Laraine Day, and they divorced in 1960. His fourth wife was Lynne Walker 
Goldblatt, to whom he was married from 1969 to 1980.[24][25] With Ruby 
Hartley, Durocher had a daughter named Barbara.[26] He adopted two children 
with Day, daughter Melinda Michele (1944–2012)[27] and son Chris (born 
1945).[28][29] In the 2013 film 42, Durocher is played by Christopher Meloni. 
In 1965, Season 1 of The Munsters, he played himself in Episode 29 "Herman 
the Rookie" In 1963, Season 4 of Mister Ed, he played himself in Episode 
81 "Leo Durocher Meets Mister Ed" In 1956, Season 1 of Screen Directors 
Playhouse he played himself in Episode 17, "Prima Donna." Laraine Day (Mrs. 
