Home Away Leones del Escogido (English: Chosen One Lions or Lions of Chosen 
One) are a professional baseball team in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. 
Established in 1921, Leones are the third most successful team in the Dominican 
Winter League, behind Tigres del Licey and Aguilas Cibaeñas, having won 
17 national championships and 4 Caribbean Series. Of the 17 won championships, 
16 are of the Liga Domininana de Béisbol (LIDOM) Winter League. Leones 
defeated Tigres del Licey in 6 games to win the 2015-2016 championship, 
in a best-of-nine series with 5 over 1 games won. In the 2014 Baseball 
Caribbean Series to be played in Hermosillo, they represented Dominican 
Republic but lost the final 4-3 to the Mexican team Yaquis de Obregón. 
Leones beat Yaquis in their first two matchups and finished the Caribbean 
Series with the best record 5-2, including the final. The Leones' record 
book is dominated by the Alou brothers: Matty, Felipe and Jesús. The brothers 
hold the first, second and third spots in the team's record book for the 
following: games played, runs, at bats, hits, home runs and RBIs. Matty 
and Felipe are one-two in several more categories, including bases on balls 
and stolen bases. Felipe Alou is also the most successful manager, winning 
four championships. The Leones enjoyed a very successful first year with 
new ownership. They won their third straight "City Championship Trophy" 
over Tigres del Licey, their rivals who share Estadio Quisqueya in Santo 
Domingo, after winning six of their ten regular season games against Licey. 
They followed this by winning the regular season with a 30-19 record, and 
won their thirteenth Winter League Championship, ending their 18-year National 
Championship drought. Leones represented the Dominican Republic in the 
Caribbean Series, and won their third title with a 5-1 record. On 20 March 
2010, General Manager Moisés Alou announced that Ken Oberkfell will return 
to manage Leones del Escogido for the 2010–2011 season. The team won their 
fourth straight City Championship Trophy this season, securing the season 
series with their win over Licey on 9 December. Leones made it to the postseason, 
but failed to reach the finals, which were eventually won by Toros del 
Este. After struggling in the regular season, Leones clinched a spot in 
the Round Robin. They finished the Round Robin in first place, setting 
up a 9-game Finals against Aguilas. Despite blowing a commanding 3-0 series 
lead, Leones won their fourteenth championship in dramatic fashion with 
a come from behind win in game 9. Leones also won the Caribbean Series 
hosted by Dominican Republic. Leones again struggled in the regular season, 
but won their final three games to force a one-game playoff against Gigantes 
del Cibao. Leones won the game 5-2, and joined Águilas Cibaeñas, Toros 
del Este, and Estrellas Orientales in the Round Robin. Águilas and Leones 
advanced to the Final, ending the Round Robin in 17 games. Leones swept 
Águilas in 5 games to win their third crown in four years and their fifteenth 
overall. Leones cruised in the Caribbean Series group stage, winning 5 
out of 6 games, but lost the final to Mexico in 18 innings 4-3. On 1 December 
2013, Leones beat Tigres del Licey 1-0 and secured the City Championship 
Trophy. Leones won the regular season with 31-19, qualifying for the Round 
Robin. On 14 January 2014, Jon Leicester, Ramon Garcia, Fernando Rodney, 
and Armando Rodriguez threw a combined no-hitter to Licey, clinching the 
Round Robin and home field advantage in the Finals. It was just the 8th 
no-hitter in the history of Dominican Winter League. They faced Tigres 
del Licey in the Finals, losing the series 5-3. Leones had a disappointing 
season, finishing in last place with a 17-3 record. Licey also failed to 
reach the playoffs, making it the first time in the league's history that 
both teams from Santo Domingo missed the postseason. Leones finished the 
season with a 25-25 record, enough for third place in the standings and 
qualifying to the semifinal round. After 18 games in the semifinals, Leones 
and Toros del Este were tied with a 9-9 record, and had to play a decisive 
extra game, which Leones won 7-2. This sent the team to the finals against 
archrivals Tigres del Licey, just one year after they both failed to qualify 
for the postseason for the first time in history. In the best-of-nine finals, 
Leones jumped to a commanding 4-0 lead, before losing game 5 in the 9th 
inning. The team won their 16th Championship in game 6, when they defeated 
the Tigres del Licey 8-3. In the 2016 Caribbean Series celebrated in Estadio 
Quisqueya, Leones finished in last place with a 0-4 record. Leones del 
Escogido won the first championship in 1922 of a short-lived professional 
baseball era from 1922 to 1937, but only the current Winter League format 
established in 1951 is widely accepted. Leones del Escogido have won four 
