Leonard Koppett (September 15, 1923 - June 22, 2003) was an American sportswriter. 
Born in Moscow, Koppett moved with his family from Russia to the United 
States when he was five years old. They lived in The Bronx, New York, a 
block away from Yankee Stadium, sparking his early interest in sports. 
A graduate of Columbia University, he was a reporter and columnist for 
the New York Herald Tribune, the New York Post, The New York Times, the 
Peninsula Times Tribune, and The Sporting News, and he authored 16 books 
on sports. He also published a number of magazine articles. His writings 
have been noted for their intellectual rigor, social commentary, and wit. 
Best known were his works on baseball: Concise History of Major League 
Baseball (1998, updated through 2004) and The Thinking Fan's Guide to Baseball 
(originally titled A Thinking Man's Guide to Baseball, 1967, renamed for 
gender neutrality and updated several times through 2004) are considered 
definitive works on the game. The former was inspired by Koppett's conversations 
with contemporary athletes who had little or no knowledge about the history 
of their game and the great players of decades past, while the latter memorably 
began with a one-word paragraph — "Fear." — and then explored how the batter's 
instinctive fear of the thrown pitch is the key point around which most 
other aspects of baseball play are derived. The Essence of the Game is 
Deception: Thinking about Basketball took a similar approach to basketball. 
Two weeks prior to his death, Koppett completed his final book, The Rise 
and Fall of the Press Box, which is part autobiography and part memoir 
about changes in sports media coverage since World War II when he became 
a sportswriter. Koppett received the J. G. Taylor Spink Award from the 
Baseball Hall of Fame in 1992 and the Curt Gowdy Media Award by the Basketball 
Hall of Fame in 1994. According to his daughter Katherine Koppett, shortly 
before his death at age 79 in San Francisco, Koppett commented, "Every 
