Leslie B. "Les" Otten (born 1949), is the former CEO of the American Skiing 
Company. Since resigning as Chief Executive Officer in 2001, Otten has 
been involved in numerous other businesses and industries, including Major 
League Baseball's Boston Red Sox. Otten was born in Teaneck, New Jersey, 
where he received his early education.[1] He graduated high school from 
the Hun School of Princeton in Princeton, New Jersey in 1967.[2] He was 
named an Alumnus of the Year in 1999. Otten received a B.S. in Business 
Administration from Ithaca College in 1971, after which he worked for Killington 
and Sunday River ski resorts. In 1980 he purchased Sunday River, and his 
company, LBO Resort Enterprises, grew by acquiring Sugarbush, Attitash 
Bear Peak, and Cranmore Otten started his career at Killington Ski Resort 
in Vermont in 1971. In 1973, at the age of 23, Otten was named ski operation 
manager of Sunday River in Newry, Maine. In 1980 Otten purchased Sunday 
River. In 1989, Otten was named Inc. Magazine Entrepreneur of the Year, 
Turnaround Category. In 1995 he formed American Skiing Company by acquiring 
S-K-I, and this expanded his resorts to include Killington, Mount Snow, 
Haystack, Waterville Valley, and Sugarloaf/USA. He was forced to divest 
his interests in Waterville Valley and Cranmore but went on to buy Pico 
Peak in Vermont.[3][4] Under Otten, American Skiing Company invested heavily 
in marketing and infrastructure. While these investments are credited with 
major turnaround and growth, they overleveraged the company. A later bailout 
by an investment firm ultimately caused him to leave day-to-day operations 
while remaining on the Board of Directors. Otten resigned this position 
on February 26, 2007, effective immediately, to pursue other options. The 
Boston Globe reported "I leave the board with mixed feelings," Otten said. 
"It's been a pleasure to serve and help guide the Company and I wish everyone 
well. I truly enjoyed my tenure with the board, but now it's time to look 
at other options." In 2009, Otten was inducted into the Maine Ski Hall 
of Fame. From 2002 through 2007, Otten was vice chairman and minority partner 
of the Boston Red Sox American Major League Baseball franchise. In 2004, 
the Red Sox won their first World Series Championship since 1918 while 
Otten was part of the ownership group.[5] In 2008, Otten and two other 
partners started Maine Energy Systems, whose stated goal is to support 
a transition to the use of renewable energy for homes and businesses. The 
company originated from a series of informal seminars organized by Otten 
in 2007, where he assembled experts in various fields of energy to biweekly 
meetings. The meetings were broadly focused to allow for highly speculative 
thinking about Maine's economy and energy usage. The group settled on a 
strategy that would involve the conversion of a significant proportion 
of the central home heating systems in Maine from oil to renewable fuel 
sources. The conversion to renewable fuels is expected to significantly 
cut long term heating costs in homes and businesses. The production of 
the fuel from Maine forests would also employ many Maine workers and keep 
the money spent on home heating in Maine. To implement the solution, Otten, 
Dutch Dresser, and Bill Strauss formed Maine Energy Systems, LLC. Automated 
wood pellet fired central home heating systems are very common in Western 
Europe. For example, 76% of the new homes constructed in Austria in 2006 
were built with pellet fueled rather than oil fueled systems. Pellet fueled 
systems can run continually for months with no attention so that the owner 
only has to set the thermostat and enjoy a warm home, hot water, and a 
heating fuel bill reduced significantly over oil heat. In January 2009, 
Maine Energy Systems was recognized by Senator Olympia Snowe (R – ME) as 
a small business that is using technology and innovative thinking to help 
solve our nation's energy crisis and keep Mainers warm during the lengthy 
winter. Senator Snowe commented that Maine Energy Systems is at the vanguard 
of the "green" product revolution, creating a product that is beneficial 
to the environment, saves consumers money, and produces profits and jobs. 
Otten is a past President of the Maine Pellet Fuels Association. Les Otten 
is a partner in the consultancy FutureMetrics. FutureMetrics' team are 
leading experts in the wood pellet manufacturing sector. Les Otten is currently 
involved in a number of ventures including Cartera Commerce (provides online 
shopping for loyalty programs) and Sports Vision Technologies (produces 
P3ProSwing, a golf swing analyzer and golf simulator). He is current board 
chairman for the Cromwell Center for Disabilities Awareness in Portland, 
Maine. The Center provides disabilities awareness education in schools, 
for prospective educators, and in workplaces. Otten is involved in several 
other businesses in Maine, including the Phoenix House and Well restaurant 
in Newry, Colony Development Company in Bethel and Sports Vision Technologies 
in Bethel and Portland. Sports Vision Technologies currently employees 
nearly a dozen people that live in Maine. In 2008, Otten was asked by Maine 
Governor John Baldacci to chair the Governor's Wood-to-Energy Task Force 
which was charged with finding ways to reduce the state’s reliance on foreign 
oil and stimulate Maine’s economy by developing renewable sources of energy 
made in Maine, by Maine businesses, for Maine people. The initiative sought 
to capitalize on opportunities to convert public buildings to wood biomass 
heat; encourage homeowners to switch from oil heat to heat from renewable 
energy sources; and, promote Maine-grown alternative energy industries. 
This Wood-to-Energy Task Force reported that Maine is the most heating 
oil dependent state in the country with 440,000 households consuming an 
average of 900 gallons of heating oil a year. At a July 2008 price of $4.64 
a gallon that amounts to $4,100 per Maine household. The Task Force concluded 
that wood-to-energy can lower the cost of home heating approximately 25 
to 50% of the cost of No. 2 heating oil. Otten founded Maine Handicapped 
Skiing with Omar D. “Chip” Crothers, M.D. to ensure access to and participation 
in the recreational sports that are integral to a well-rounded life for 
every person. Maine Handicapped Skiing is the largest year-round adaptive 
recreation program east of the Mississippi for adults and children with 
physical disabilities. From Veterans No Boundaries to children with cerebral 
palsy, Maine Handicapped Skiing helps a wide spectrum of Mainers. Otten 
is currently serving as chairman of the Cromwell Center for Disabilities 
Awareness, an organization dedicated to ensuring that people with all types 
of disabilities are afforded the same dignity, inclusion, and respect that 
every person deserves as a birthright. Otten was honored as the Cromwell 
Center Person of the Year for 2009. In 1987, Otten was part of a group 
of civic-minded individuals from across western Maine who came together 
to form the Western Mountains Alliance in order to seek a sustainable development 
strategy for western Maine, a region struggling with long-term economic 
decline. Otten acted as first chairman of the Western Mountains Alliance. 
In 1990, Otten co-founded and served as the first chairman of the Economic 
Environmental Council of Maine, which merged with the Maine Chamber to 
become the Maine Chamber Alliance, where Otten also served as the first 
chair of that organization. The goal of these organizations was to create 
an environment where the needs of the paper industry could find middle 
ground with the environmental concerns of Maine citizens. Otten is past 
chairman and current Board of Trustees member of the Portland Museum of 
Art, since the collection put together by his father, the former German 
steel magnate Albert Otten (in Germany: Albert Ottenheimer[6]), is hosted 
there. Al Otten became owner of Albot Industries in New Jersey when he 
had to emigrate from Germany. In 1988 Otten started Project Opportunity 
in Bethel by donating the initial grant and creating its goal of helping 
late bloomers. Project Opportunity is a unique Grant and Scholarship Program 
benefitting Telstar Regional High School students. From the generous donations 
Project Opportunity has received, students have been able to attend colleges 
throughout the United States as well experience educational trips throughout 
the World. Otten is a former candidate for Governor of Maine in the 2010 
election. On October 19, 2009, Otten formally announced his candidacy for 
the Republican gubernatorial primary in the 2010 election. In his announcement 
speech, Otten emphasized the need for Maine to create jobs, lower taxes, 
prepare its students for the global economy and take control of its energy 
future. On June 22, 2009, after months of speculation, word broke that 
Otten will announce the formation of an exploratory committee for a potential 
bid for Governor of Maine on June 29. Otten is running as a Republican.[7][8] 
The campaign was criticized by the Maine Democratic Party for allegedly 
copying President Barack Obama's famous "O" insignia and website layout 
from the 2008 presidential election cycle.[9] A statement from Otten's 
website claims that it was actually the Obama campaign who first "copied" 
the logo from the new Pepsi logo.[10] This claim was too refuted, as the 
Obama "O" was first used months before Pepsi revamped their logo.[11] Counting 
among his campaign staff is Christian Potholm, a Maine political consultant 
that helped Democratic Governor John Baldacci defeat Republican candidate 
Chandler Woodcock in 2006. Potholm is Professor of Government at Bowdoin 
College who has authored several books on Maine politics including, Maine: 
The Dynamics of Political Change, This Splendid Game: Maine Campaigns and 
Elections, 1940–2002 and An Insider's Guide to Maine Politics:1946–1996. 
William J. Ryan, Chairman, President and CEO of TD Banknorth Group, Inc. 
served as Treasurer of the Exploratory Committee for Otten’s potential 
bid for Governor of Maine in 2010. After the official announcement of the 
formal campaign, Bruce Chalmers, President of Chalmers Insurance Group 
in Bridgton, Maine took over as Campaign Treasurer. On February 28, 2016, 
The Boston Globe reported that Otten had purchased part of the now-closed 
Balsams Resort in Dixville Notch, New Hampshire. According to the article, 
Otten plans to spend over $100 million to renovate and rebuild the resort 
with the goal of turning it into a four seasons destination. When finished, 
the skiing area would be the largest in New England, with 2,200 acres of 
skiable terrain.[12] Otten lives in Greenwood, Maine. He raised three children. 
