Lesley Candace Visser (born September 11, 1953) is an American sportscaster, 
television and radio personality, and sportswriter. Visser is the first 
female NFL analyst on TV,[1] and the only sportscaster in history (male 
or female) who has worked on Final Four, NBA Finals, World Series, Triple 
Crown, Monday Night Football, the Olympics, the Super Bowl, the World Figure 
Skating Championships and the U.S. Open network broadcasts. Visser, who 
was voted the No. 1 Female Sportscaster of all-time in a poll taken by 
the American Sportscasters Association,[2] She was elected to the National 
Sportscasters and Sportswriters Association's Hall of Fame in 2015.[3] 
In 2009, Visser became the first woman to be an analyst for an NFL game 
on TV. She is currently a reporter for CBS Sports and News, writes for 
CBSSports.com and is also part of WFTL 640 Fox Sports' morning drive in 
South Florida, as well as one of the hosts of a CBS Sports Network weekly 
television show, We Need to Talk. Visser[4] was the first woman to be recognized 
by the Pro Football Hall of Fame as the 2006 recipient of the Pete Rozelle 
Radio-Television Award which recognizes long-time exceptional contributions 
to radio and television in professional football. Pro Football Hall of 
Famer Troy Aikman said about Visser in his 2006 induction speech, "She 
brought respect and professionalism to the field of journalism for her 
work in print and broadcasting. It makes me proud to be in her company 
today." A pioneer among women sports journalists, Visser re-joined CBS 
Sports in August 2000 after a six-year hiatus. She was formerly the sideline 
reporter for Monday Night Football among other assignments she had at ESPN 
and ABC Sports, such as the World Series, the Triple Crown and the World 
Figure Skating Championship. She serves as correspondent for the network's 
NFL and college basketball programming. Born on September 11, 1953, in 
Quincy, Massachusetts,[5] to a school teacher and engineer, Visser loved 
sports from an early age. On Halloween, when other little girls would dress 
up as Mary Poppins, she would go as former Boston Celtics guard Sam Jones. 
From the age of 10 she wanted to be a sportswriter, but there was one problem—the 
job didn’t exist for women. Her family didn't discourage her. “My parents 
didn’t say girls can’t do that, and my mother told me, ‘Sometimes you have 
to cross when it says “don’t walk.”’” Visser was educated at Boston College, 
majoring in English.[6] In 1974, Visser won a prestigious Carnegie Foundation 
grant which entitled her to work as a sportswriter at The Boston Globe. 
In 14 years at the Globe, she covered college basketball, the NBA, Major 
League Baseball, tennis, college football, golf and horse racing. In 1976, 
she was assigned to cover the New England Patriots, becoming the first 
ever female NFL beat writer. In 2009, Sports Illustrated named The Boston 
Globe sports sections (1975–1980) the best sports section of all time. 
In 1983, she did a few features for CBS. In 1984, Visser joined CBS Sports 
part-time and went full-time in 1987. Her assignments included the NBA 
including the NBA Finals, college basketball including the Final Four, 
MLB including the World Series, College World Series,[7] college football, 
horse racing, Tennis including the U.S. Open of Tennis (1984–1993) and 
the Olympics. In 1989 she covered the fall of the Berlin Wall, focusing 
on how sports would change in East Germany. In 1990 she became a regular 
on The NFL Today with Greg Gumbel, Terry Bradshaw and Pat O'Brien. Also 
in 1990, Visser became the first woman to cover the World Series. In 1992, 
she became the first and only woman to handle the Super Bowl Trophy presentation. 
After CBS lost television rights to NFL games in 1993, Visser went to ABC 
Sports and ESPN. In 1995, she became the first woman ever to report from 
the sidelines during a Super Bowl when she covered Super Bowl XXIX for 
ABC. In 1998, she became the first woman ever assigned to Monday Night 
Football. She also covered Super Bowl XXXIV for ABC in 2000. While at ABC 
Sports, Visser served as a reporter for college football bowl games and 
the NFL playoffs games during Wild Card Saturday. She also contributed 
to horse racing including the Triple Crown, ABC's Wide World of Sports, 
Major League Baseball, including the 1995 World Series, figure skating, 
Special Olympics, skiing, the Pro Bowl, and an ABC series A Passion to 
Play. She co-hosted the network's coverage of the "Millennium Tournament 
of Roses Parade." For ESPN, Visser covered the Super Bowl, college basketball, 
figure skating, and horse racing including the Triple Crown.[8] She also 
contributed to SportsCenter, NFL GameDay, and Monday Night Countdown. In 
August 2000, Visser returned to CBS, with her assignments being NFL, college 
basketball, Tennis, Figure Skating and Horse Racing as well as special 
projects for CBS News. Today Visser's assignments are a contributor to 
The NFL Today and college basketball. In 2004, she became the first woman 
sportscaster to carry the Olympic Torch when she was honored in 2004 by 
the International Olympic Committee as a "pioneer and standard-bearer." 
During the 2001 NFL season Visser became the first female color analyst[9] 
(NBC's Gayle Sierens was the first female play-by-play announcer) on an 
NFL broadcast booth. She joined play-by-play announcer Howard David and 
analyst Boomer Esiason in the booth for Westwood One/CBS Radio. Visser 
also joined HBO's highly acclaimed Real Sports with Bryant Gumbel. Visser 
was a pre-game reporter for The Super Bowl Today, where she covered the 
Super Bowl XXXV in February 2001, Super Bowl XXXVIII in February 2004, 
and the Super Bowl XLI in February 2007 pre-game broadcasts and during 
that 2007 Super Bowl she did serve as a sideline reporter too. Visser did 
contribute to the pre-game broadcast of the 2010 Super Bowl as well as 
the 2013 Super Bowl. Visser was loaned to NBC Sports twice to cover the 
Olympics as she covered the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens when she served 
as the Equestrian reporter. She also covered the 2006 Winter Olympics in 
Torino as a reporter for Short Track Speed Skating. In September 2007, 
she returned to roots as she now writes a column for CBSSports.com. Visser 
was married from 1983 to 2010 to sportscaster Dick Stockton, who broadcasts 
football and baseball for Fox and baseball and the NBA for Turner Sports. 
Visser and Stockton met at the sixth game of the 1975 World Series, where 
Stockton called Carlton Fisk's iconic home run for NBC and Visser was covering 
the game for The Boston Globe. Visser has been married since July, 2011 
to businessman and former Harvard basketball captain Bob Kanuth.[10] In 
June 1993, Visser suffered a jogging accident in New York's Central Park 
in which she broke her hip and skidded face-first across the pavement.[11] 
She required surgery on her face and hip and in 2006 she required an artificial 
hip replacement. Visser has covered a number of events: In June 2006, Visser 
was named the first female recipient of the Pete Rozelle Radio-Television 
Award by the Pro Football Hall of Fame. That same month, she was honored 
by the American Women in Radio and Television as the first woman sportscaster 
recipient of a Gracie Allen Award which celebrates programming created 
for women, by women and about women, as well as individuals who have made 
exemplary contributions to the industry. In 2007, she became the first 
woman sportscaster to host the Gracie Awards. Visser also, in 2007, received 
the Emily Couric Leadership Award—previously given to Sandra Day O'Connor, 
Caroline Kennedy and Donna Brazile—and in 2007, she was honored at the 
22nd Annual Sports Legend Dinner, along with Magic Johnson, Gary Player 
and John Elway to benefit the Buoniconti fund to cure paralysis. In 2005 
she won the Pop Warner female achievement award and was inducted into the 
New England Sports Museum Hall of Fame, along with Boston Celtics legend 
Bob Cousy and the 1980 United States Olympic Hockey team. Visser has been 
honored with the Compass Award for "changing the paradigm of her business" 
and was one of the 100 luminaries commemorating the 75th anniversary of 
the CBS Television Network in 2003. She was named "WISE Woman of the Year" 
in 2002 and voted the "Outstanding Women's Sportswriter in America" in 
1983 and won the "Women's Sports Foundation Award for Journalism" in 1992. 
In 1999 she won the first AWSM Pioneer Award. Visser earned her bachelor's 
degree in English from Boston College and received an honorary doctorate 
of Journalism from her alma mater in May 2007. Visser became the first 
woman sportscaster to carry the Olympic Torch when she was honored in 2004 
by the International Olympic Committee as a "pioneer and standard-bearer." 
Visser worked her 31st Final Four/NCAA Men's Basketball Championship this 
April 2009, having worked the tournament for the Boston Globe, ESPN and 
CBS Sports. This past season marked her 34th year covering the NFL and 
for covering the NFL. In 2005, Visser was elected to the Museum of Television 
and Radio. Sean McManus, President of CBS News and CBS Sports, summed up 
her contributions this way: "Lesley Visser's career has broken many barriers 
and defined previously unimagined roles for women in professional sports 
and sports broadcasting." On June 8, 2015, Visser was inducted in the NSSA 
Hall of Fame, along with Bill Raftery, Hal McCoy and the late Dick Schaap. 
She is the third woman to be accorded this honor since the National Sportscasters 
