"Let's Go, Go-Go White Sox" is the fight song of the Chicago White Sox 
of the American League. The song first appeared in 1959 during the White 
Sox' run for the AL pennant--the team's first league championship since 
the infamous Black Sox Scandal of 1919. It was written by former White 
Sox minor leaguer Al Trace and his friend Walter "Li'l Wally" Jagiello. 
The duo then bounced the song off Captain Stubby and the Buccaneers, a 
popular country-comedy band in the Chicago area best known for performing 
the Roto-Rooter and Green Giant jingles. It was released on Jagiello's 
label, Drumboy Records, but failed to sell well. The song was only heard 
sporadically until June 2005, when team scoreboard operations and TV production 
director Jeff Szynal dusted off an old record of the tune. He put together 
a video montage and ran the words across the JumboTron in center field 
at U.S. Cellular Field during a turn-back-the-clock game against the Los 
Angeles Dodgers, the team that defeated the White Sox in the 1959 World 
Series. The White Sox won the game on a walk-off home run by AJ Pierzynski, 
and the song has blared over the stadium speakers ever since in rally situations. 
It became an instant hit, as fans of several generations caught on. In 
2005, the White Sox won 99 games en route to their first division title 
in five years, their first postseason series win of any kind since the 
1917 World Series (in the Division Series), their first World Series appearance 
since 1959, and their first World Series championship since 1917. In the 
2005 postseason, Fox played clips of the song in their playoff coverage. 
WGN-TV also played the song during the victory parade on October 28, over 
a series of clips that interwove action footage from 1959 and 2005. White 
Sox! White Sox! Go-Go White Sox! Let's go, Go-Go White Sox We're with you 
all the way! You're always in there fighting, And you do your best. We're 
glad to have you out there in the Middle West. We're gonna root-root-root-root 
White Sox. And cheer you on to victory. When we're in the stands, We'll 
make those rafters ring; All through the season, You will hear us sing. 
Let's go, Go-Go White Sox, Chicago's proud of you! White Sox! White Sox! 
Go-Go White Sox! Root-Root-Root for the White Sox. We'll cheer you on to 
victory. When we're in the stands, We'll make those rafters ring; All through 
the season, You will hear us sing. Let's go, Go-Go White Sox, Chicago's 
proud of you! (Play ball!) White Sox! White Sox! Go-Go White Sox! Let's 
