"Lights" is a song recorded by American rock band Journey and written by 
Steve Perry and Neal Schon, released in 1978. The song is a ballad about 
Journey's city of origin, San Francisco, although it was actually written 
in and originally intended to be about Los Angeles. It was one of Steve 
Perry's first Journey songs, and was recorded soon after his joining the 
band. In an interview, Perry said, "I had the song written in Los Angeles 
almost completely except for the bridge and it was written about Los Angeles. 
It was 'when the lights go down in the city and the sun shines on LA.' 
I didn't like the way it sounded at the time. And so I just had it sitting 
back in the corner. Then life changed my plans once again, and I was now 
facing joining Journey. I love San Francisco, the bay, and the whole thing. 
'The bay' fit so nice, 'When the lights go down in the city and the sun 
shines on the bay.' It was one of those early-morning-going-across-the-bridge 
things, when the sun was coming up and the lights were going down. It was 
perfect." [1] Released as a single in 1978, it was originally a minor hit, 
reaching number 68 on the Billboard Hot 100 at the time.[2] It has, however, 
become more popular over the years and is now one of Journey's most popular 
and easily recognizable songs and is often played in Classic Hits/Oldies 
radio stations. It is frequently played at San Francisco Giants baseball 
games (including versions led by Perry himself at Game 2 of the 2010 World 
Series[3] and Games 1[4] and 2[5] of the 2012 World Series) and the cross-bay 
Oakland Athletics after-game fireworks starts. It is sometimes used in 
promos for the Golden State Warriors. Journey released a live version of 
the song in 1993 for the Time³ box set. The song was the last to be played 
during the Top 40 era of KFRC 610, a legendary San Francisco station, before 
the flip to a nostalgia/adult standards format in 1986.[6] KIII-TV of Corpus 
Christi, Texas used this song during their sign offs in the late 1980s. 
