Lindsey Nelson (May 25, 1919 – June 10, 1995) was an American sportscaster 
best known for his long career calling play-by-play of college football 
and New York Mets baseball. Nelson spent 17 years with the Mets and three 
years with the San Francisco Giants. For 33 years Nelson covered college 
football, including 26 Cotton Bowls, five Sugar Bowls, four Rose Bowls, 
and 14 years announcing syndicated Notre Dame games. He is in 13 separate 
Halls of Fame. Fans remember a talented broadcaster, an expert storyteller, 
and a true sports enthusiast. From his colorful jackets to his equally 
colorful broadcasts, Nelson established himself as one of the industry's 
leading sportscasters. Nelson was born on May 25, 1919, in Campbellsville, 
Tennessee, the third child of Jon and Asie Nelson.[1] He graduated from 
Columbia Central High School in Columbia.[2] He graduated from the University 
of Tennessee in 1941, taught English, and then served in the U.S. Army, 
where he was a captain in North Africa and Europe during World War II. 
He also served as a war correspondent and public relations specialist, 
and played on an Army baseball team managed by Harry "The Hat" Walker. 
Nelson broke into broadcasting in 1948 following a short career as a reporter 
in Columbia, Tennessee, for the Columbia Daily Herald newspaper, He was 
the first play-by-play announcer for the "Vol Network," which was set up 
to broadcast the UT Vols games. Affectionately known as "Mr. New Year's 
Day," Nelson subsequently did the play-by-play of the Cotton Bowl Classic 
for 26 seasons on CBS television, where he earned widespread recognition 
for his Tennessee drawl and signature opening greeting: "Happy New Year; 
this is Lindsey Nelson in the Cotton Bowl in Dallas." He also called many 
Army–Navy Games for CBS, including the 1963 contest in which instant replay 
was first introduced. (After the initial replay, it fell to Nelson to reassure 
viewers that Army had not scored again.[3]) For 14 years Nelson was the 
syndicated television voice of Notre Dame football, and he also called 
the Mutual Broadcasting System's Monday night radio broadcasts of NFL games 
from 1974 to 1977, in addition to NFL games for CBS television for many 
years. Nelson began his national baseball broadcast career as one of Gordon 
McLendon's radio announcers for the Liberty Broadcasting System, which 
primarily did recreations of games. After a stretch as an administrator 
with NBC Sports, he began doing the network's baseball broadcasts in 1957. 
He also broadcast college football, NBA and college basketball, and professional 
golf and tennis during his NBC tenure. In 1962, he was hired as the lead 
broadcaster by the expansion New York Mets, and for the next 17 seasons 
did both radio and television with Ralph Kiner and Bob Murphy. All three 
were eventually inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame. While with the 
Mets, Nelson made the first (and only) radio broadcast of a baseball game 
from directly above the field. On April 28, 1965, Nelson accompanied the 
team to the Houston Astrodome for their game against the Astros, and his 
producer noticed that there was a gondola suspended from the ceiling of 
a domed stadium; Nelson and a broadcast executive agreed to be hoisted 
in the gondola to a point 208 feet above second base, and called the play-by-play, 
though as he described it, "At first, I couldn't see anything except a 
lot of tiny figures. Everybody looked the same height... You couldn't tell 
a line drive from a pop fly." The Mets lost, 12-9, and Nelson declined 
to repeat the stunt. [4] When Chicago White Sox pitcher and former Mets 
ace Tom Seaver went for his 300th victory in August 1985 against the host 
New York Yankees, the Yankees TV flagship station WPIX had Nelson call 
the final half-inning of Seaver's history-making win. In 1979 Nelson moved 
on to the San Francisco Giants, for whom he worked three seasons. He also 
worked with CBS Radio broadcasts of Major League Baseball in 1985. He is 
remembered for being the announcer during the first NFL game on CBS to 
use "instant replay", which he had to explain repeatedly during the game, 
reminding viewers that "this is not live." Nelson's honors and awards include 
induction into the National Sportscasters and Sportswriters Association 
Hall of Fame in Salisbury, North Carolina in 1979; the New York Mets Hall 
of Fame in 1984; the American Sportscasters Association Hall of Fame in 
1986; the Tuss McLaughry Service Award for sports broadcasting in 1988; 
the Ford C. Frick Award from the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1988; the Pete 
Rozelle Radio-Television Award from the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1990; 
and many more. He was awarded an Emmy Award for Lifetime Achievement in 
1991. The Tennessee Volunteers baseball team's home field was named Lindsey 
Nelson Stadium after him. Television broadcasts featuring Nelson were notable 
for his multi-colored plaid sports jackets. He reportedly owned 335 of 
them at one time. During a broadcast, his jackets often clashed with the 
set and produced a scintillation effect in the broadcast image. But he 
figured that if fans could see rather than just hear broadcasts, he might 
as well give them something interesting to talk about. After his retirement 
from active broadcasting, he moved to Knoxville, Tennessee, to an apartment 
across the Tennessee River from the University of Tennessee campus from 
which he had a view of Neyland Stadium, the Vols' home field. He wrote 
an autobiographical memoir entitled Hello Everybody, I'm Lindsey Nelson, 
his landmark opening phrase. Nelson died of Parkinson's disease at age 
76 on June 10, 1995, in Atlanta, Georgia.[5] He is buried in Rose Hill 
Cemetery in Columbia.[6] His wife, Mickie, preceded him in death in 1973. 
