"Line-Up for Yesterday: An ABC of Baseball Immortals" is a poem written 
by Ogden Nash for the January 1949 issue of SPORT Magazine. In the poem, 
Nash dedicates each letter of the alphabet to an iconic Major League Baseball 
player. Altogether, the poem pays tribute to 24 players, plus one winking 
reference to himself (under "I") as a fan of the game, and concludes with 
a final stanza in homage to the players collectively. The great Alexander; 
More Goose eggs he pitched Than a popular gander. Back of the plate; The 
Cubs were his love, and McGraw his hate. Who grew spikes and not corn, 
And made all the basemen Wish they weren't born. The grammatical Diz, When 
they asked, Who's the tops? Said correctly, I is. His jaw in advance; Never 
afraid To Tinker with Chance. And Frankie and Frisch; I wish he were back 
With the Giants, I wish. The Pride of the Stadium; His record pure gold, 
His courage, pure radium. When pitching to Rog, The pitcher would pitch, 
Then the pitcher would dodge. Not a hard-hitting man, But an outstanding 
all-time Incurable fan. The Big Train in his prime Was so fast he could 
throw Three strikes at a time. As fresh as green paint, The fastest and 
mostest To hit where they ain't. Whom Clevelanders love, Napoleon himself, 
With glue in his glove. Who carried a charm In the form of an extra brain 
in his arm. Bobo's favorite kin. You ask how he's here, He talked himself 
in. Of the restless right foot. When he leaned on the pellet, The pellet 
stayed put. The arm of the A's; When he tangled with Matty Games lasted 
for days. Cornelius Mack; Neither Yankees nor years Can halt his attack. 
To tell you the truth, There's just no more to be said, Just R is for Ruth. 
Swift center-field tender, When the ball saw him coming, It yelled, "I 
surrender." The Giant from Memphis Whose .400 average You can't overemphis. 
if Carl were a cockney; We say Hubbell and Baseball Like Football and Rockne. 
The Dodger's very own Dazzy; None of his rivals Could throw as fast as 
he. The bowlegged beauty; Short was closed to all traffic With Honus on 
duty. of two x's in Foxx Who was right behind Ruth with his powerful soxx. 
The magnificent Cy; People batted against him, But I never knew why. The 
