The St. Louis Cardinals, a professional baseball franchise based in St. 
Louis, Missouri, compete in the National League (NL) of Major League Baseball 
(MLB). An investment group consisting of William DeWitt, Jr., Fred Hanser, 
the Klingaman Group, and others, owns the St. Louis Cardinals, who bought 
the team from Anheuser-Busch (AB) in 1996.[1] Chris von der Ahe was the 
first owner of the Cardinals franchise, then known as the Brown Stockings 
and pioneered many of the elements commonly associated with the sport at 
the game. A German immigrant who made his way as a grocer and saloon owner, 
he saw potential in the sport without otherwise having any other background 
in it.[2] He also became a polarizing figure with his employees and rivals: 
Von der Ahe was a flamboyant and magnanimous entrepreneur who gained enormous 
popularity in St. Louis and his team but was reviled by rival owners. He 
was marked by a willingness to charge lower admission rates, encouraging 
play on Sundays, and opening beer concessions at the stadium, a practice 
that the National League prohibited during Von der Ahe's time. He also 
was one of the few owners to make a profit during his time, in contrast 
with his rival owners, whose American Association eventually collapsed 
due to bankruptcy. [3] National League owners such Albert Spalding bristled 
at his promotional techniques that became common to today's game. Charlie 
O. Finley, Larry McPhail, and Bill Veeck eventually employed sideshow attractions, 
like the "stadium club" and the shoot-the-chute.[4] In 1881, after the 
Browns profited $25,000 from playing a season's worth of informal contests, 
Von der Ahe bought out the team's remaining stockholders for $1,800.[5] 
With baseball's already existing popularity in Cincinnati and increasing 
popularity in other cities such as Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and Baltimore, 
the time was right for a new league. Late that same year, along with other 
owners and financiers, Von der Ahe formed the American Association of Base 
Ball Clubs with the Brown Stockings.[6] In 1899, von der Ahe, once the 
most successful owner in the AA, was forced to sell the Browns due to bankruptcy.[3] 
First making his mark as a local automobile dealer, Sam Breadon first purchased 
a minority stake in the Cardinals in 1917 for $2,000, thus commencing 30 
total years as owner of the Cardinals. Three years later, Breadon bought 
out the majority stock in the club to become the principal owner of the 
Cardinals and extinguished the futility that dredged the Cardinals' first 
three decades in the National League. Between 1926 and 1946, the Cardinals 
won six World Series titles and nine National League pennants. Breadon 
was noted for a very conservative nature with his finances, highly demanding 
nature of his teams' success on the field, and bold moves otherwise. When 
he became minority owner, the Cardinals were $150,000 in debt.[7] In 1925, 
he moved Branch Rickey from the dugout to the front office and promoted 
second baseman Rogers Hornsby to player-manager. Breadon also convinced 
cross-town American League rival St. Louis Browns owner Phil Ball to allow 
the Cardinals to move into Sportsman's Park. This allowed him to sell the 
dilapidated Robison Field property for a total of $275,000 to the city 
and a trolley company, clear their debts, and, with Rickey's oversight, 
establish an official, contractually-linked minor league farm system. This 
strategy developed into the current minor league system and the Cardinals 
used it to circumvent the practice of bidding against the more affluent 
Major League teams such as the New York Yankees and New York Giants for 
players from minor league teams, which at that time were unaffiliated. 
Although Minor League Baseball has existed as long as baseball has been 
organized, it was the first player development system of its kind in any 
professional sport.[8] Between 1920 and 1947, the Cardinals compiled a 
record of 2,470-1,830 for a winning percentage of .574.[9] When he sold 
the Cardinals to Fred Saigh and Robert Hannegan in 1947, the price was 
$3 million, at the time the largest transaction in baseball history.[7][10] 
As with other periods of the Cardinals' transaction history, doubt loomed 
as to whether the purchaser would keep the team in St. Louis, due to the 
city's status as a "small market", which appear to handicap a club's competitiveness. 
Such was the case when Sam Breadon sold the Cardinals in 1947: then-NL 
President Ford Frick had proposed to Breadon the idea of moving the Cardinals 
to Chicago.[11] When AB placed the Cardinals for sale in 1995, they publicly 
expressed intention to find a buyer who would keep the club in St. Louis.[12] 
In March 1996, AB sold the team for $147 million to a partnership headed 
by Southwest Bank's Drew Baur, Hanser and DeWitt, Jr.[11] Civic Center 
Redevelopment, a subsidiary of AB, held the parking garages and adjacent 
property and also transferred them to the Baur ownership group.[13] Baur's 
group then sold the garages to another investment group, making the net 
cost of the franchise purchase about $100 million, making the net purchase 
price about $10 million less than Financial World's value of the team at 
the time $110 million.[12][14] Current Cincinnati Reds owner Bob Castellini 
and brothers Thomas Williams and W. Joseph Williams Jr. each once owned 
a stake in the Cardinals dating back to the Baur-DeWitt group's purchase 
of the team. To allow their purchase of the Reds in 2005, the rest of the 
group bought out Castellini's and the Williams brothers' shares, totaling 
an estimated 13%. At that time, the Forbes valued the Cardinals at about 
$370 million.[15] However, after reabsorbing that stake into the remainder 
of the group, they decided to make it available to new investors in 2010. 
Amid later allegations that the Cardinals owed the city profit shares, 
DeWitt revealed that their profitability had not reached the threshold 
to trigger that obligation.[16] As of 2013, according to Forbes, the Cardinals 
are the tenth-most valuable franchise of 30 in MLB at $716.2 million, with 
a revenue of $239 million. They play "in the best single-team baseball 
market in the country and are among the league's leaders in television 
ratings and attendance every season."[17] Concurrent with the growth of 
Major League Baseball, the Cardinals value has increased significantly 
since the Baur-DeWitt purchase. In 2000, the franchise was valued at $219 
million,[18] a growth rate of 327%. Since 2012, the franchise's value grew 
21%. Valuation per Forbes. 1 Based on current stadium deal (unless new 
stadium is pending) without deduction for debt, other than stadium debt. 
    (2013: Market $291 mil., Stadium $182 mil., Sport $151 mil., Brand 
Management $91 mil.)     (2012: Market $240 mil., Stadium $157 mil., Sport 
$119 mil., Brand Management $78 mil.)     (2011: Market $206 mil., Stadium 
$136 mil., Sport $111 mil., Brand Management $65 mil.) 2 Net of stadium 
revenues used for debt payments. 3 Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation 
and amortization. 4 Includes benefits and bonuses. 5 Compares the number 
of wins per player payroll relative to the rest of MLB. Playoff wins count 
twice as much as regular season wins. A score of 120 means that the team 
achieved 20% more victories per dollar of payroll compared with the league 
average in 2010. The president typically reports direct to the owner in 
the case where the two positions were not held by the same person. A total 
of 12 general managers (GM) have served for the Cardinals. John Mozeliak 
is currently the GM, a role he has filled since late 2007 and has generally 
been credited with having a key role in developing the Cardinals' minor 
league talent. Branch Rickey was the Cardinals first official GM –– however, 
his role initially called for him to function more as a business manager 
–– as he pioneered certain functions attributed to the contemporary GM, 
such as developing the forerunner of the minor league farm system that 
all Major League Baseball franchises use today. Rickey is also the longest 
tenured GM in franchise history with 23 years. Notable Cardinals who have 
served as GM but gained their notoriety through other roles while with 
the Cardinals include former outfielder Stan Musial and manager Whitey 
Herzog. Rickey, William Walsingham, Jr., Musial, Joe McDonald, Walt Jocketty 
and Mozeliak each won at least one World Series as Cardinals GM. Rickey 
won the most with four. Hall of Fame inductees who have served as GM for 
