This is a list of no-hitters in Major League Baseball history. In addition, 
all no-hitters that were broken up in extra innings or were in shortened 
games are listed, although they are not currently considered official no-hitters. 
(Prior to 1991, a performance in which no hits were surrendered through 
nine innings or in a shortened game was considered an official no-hit game.) 
The names of those pitchers who threw a perfect game no-hitter are italicized. 
For combined no-hitters by two or more pitchers on the same team, each 
is listed with his number of innings pitched. Games which were part of 
a doubleheader are noted as either the first game or second game. The most 
recent no-hitter was pitched by Jake Arrieta of the Chicago Cubs on April 
21, 2016. An official no-hit game occurs when a pitcher (or pitchers) allows 
no hits during the entire course of a game, which consists of at least 
nine innings thrown by the pitcher(s). In a no-hit game, a batter may still 
reach base via a walk, an error, a fielder's choice, a hit by pitch, a 
passed ball or wild pitch on strike three, or catcher's interference.[1] 
Also, due to these methods of reaching base, it is possible for a team 
to score runs without getting any hits. While the vast majority of no-hitters 
are shutouts, no-hit teams have managed to score runs in their respective 
games a number of times, five times a team has been no-hit and still won 
the game: two notable victories occurred when the Cincinnati Reds defeated 
the Houston Colt .45s (now called the Houston Astros) 1–0 on April 23, 
1964 even though they were no-hit by Houston starter Ken Johnson, and the 
Detroit Tigers defeated the Baltimore Orioles 2–1 on April 30, 1967 even 
though they were no-hit by Baltimore starter Steve Barber and reliever 
Stu Miller. In another four games, the home team won despite gaining no 
hits through eight innings, but these are near no-hitters under the 1991 
rule that nine no-hit innings must be completed in order for a no-hitter 
to be credited. The pitcher who holds the record for the shortest time 
between no-hitters is Johnny Vander Meer, the only pitcher in history to 
throw no-hitters in consecutive starts, while playing for the Cincinnati 
Reds in 1938. Besides Vander Meer, Allie Reynolds (in 1951), Virgil Trucks 
(in 1952), Nolan Ryan (in 1973), and Max Scherzer (in 2015) are the only 
other major leaguers to throw two no-hitters in the same regular season. 
Jim Maloney technically threw two no-hitters in the 1965 season, but his 
first one ended after he allowed a home run in the top of the 11th inning. 
According to the rules interpretation of the time, this was considered 
a no-hitter. Later that season, Maloney once again took a no-hitter into 
extra innings, but this time he managed to preserve the no-hitter after 
the Reds scored in the top half of the tenth, becoming the first pitcher 
to throw a complete game extra inning no-hitter since Fred Toney in 1917.[2] 
Roy Halladay threw two no-hitters in 2010: a perfect game during the regular 
season and a no-hitter in the 2010 National League Division Series. He 
is the only major leaguer to have thrown no-hitters in regular season and 
postseason play. The first black pitcher to toss a no-hitter was Sam Jones 
who did it for the Chicago Cubs in 1955. The first Latin pitcher was San 
Francisco Giant Juan Marichal in 1963. Through April 21, 2016, there have 
been 295 no-hitters officially recognized by Major League Baseball, 252 
of them in the modern era (starting in 1901, with the formation of the 
American League). Joe Borden's no-hitter in 1875 is also noted, but is 
not recognized by Major League Baseball (see note in the chart).[notes 
1] [notes 122] [notes 123] [notes 160] [notes 161] [notes 162] [notes 163] 
[notes 164] [notes 165] Italics indicate defunct team. The San Diego Padres 
are the only modern team who have never had a no-hitter. Regulation games 
in which a pitcher or staff pitches less than nine full innings, or in 
which a hit is allowed in extra innings, do not qualify as no-hitters. 
However, before the rules were tightened in 1991, such games did count 
as official no-hitters. Due to the fact that the home team does not bat 
in the bottom of the ninth inning if they are leading after the top, a 
visiting pitcher (or pitchers) may complete a full game without allowing 
a hit but not be credited with an official no-hitter. If the visiting team 
allows a sufficient amount of runs for the home team to win after the top 
of the ninth, whether by walks, errors, or anything else not involving 
hits, the pitcher(s) will not be credited with an official no-hitter because 
they pitched only 8 innings (though such no-hitters were counted before 
1991). This has happened only four times in major-league history.[72][73] 
Under certain circumstances, if a game cannot continue because of the weather, 
darkness, or any other reason, but if at least 5 innings have been completed, 
the game can count as an officially completed game. No-hitters pitched 
under such circumstances were counted before 1991, but no longer count 
as official no-hitters because 9 innings were not completed. Pitchers listed 
in bold signify the pitcher was pitching a perfect game until the game 
was shortened. These games do not count as official perfect games. No-hitters 
were formerly counted even if hits were allowed in extra innings, but not 
after the rules were tightened in 1991. Pitchers listed in bold signify 
