The Minnesota Twins are a Major League Baseball franchise based in Minneapolis, 
Minnesota. They play in the American League Central division. Also known 
in their early years as the "Washington Senators" (1901–60) based in Washington, 
D.C.,[1] pitchers for the Twins have thrown seven no-hitters in franchise 
history.[2] A no-hitter is officially recognized by Major League Baseball 
only "when a pitcher (or pitchers) retires each batter on the opposing 
team during the entire course of a game, which consists of at least nine 
innings".[3] No-hitters of less than nine complete innings were previously 
recognized by the league as official; however, several rule alterations 
in 1991 changed the rule to its current form.[4] A no-hitter is rare enough 
that only one team in Major League Baseball has never had a pitcher accomplish 
the feat.[a] A perfect game, a special subcategory of no-hitter, has yet 
to be thrown in Twins history.[5] As defined by Major League Baseball, 
"in a perfect game, no batter reaches any base during the course of the 
game."[3] Walter Johnson threw the first no-hitter in Senators/Twins history 
on July 1, 1920; the most recent no-hitter was thrown by Francisco Liriano 
on May 3, 2011.[5] Four left-handed pitchers have thrown no-hitters in 
franchise history while three were by right-handers. The longest interval 
between no-hitters was between the games pitched by Bobby Burke and Jack 
Kralick, encompassing 31 years and 8 days from August 8, 1931 to August 
26, 1962. Conversely, the shortest interval between no-hitters was between 
the games pitched by Kralick and Dean Chance, encompassing 4 years and 
364 days from August 26, 1962 to August 25, 1967.[5] They no-hit the Boston 
Red Sox the most, which occurred twice, which were no-hit by Johnson in 
1920 and Burke in 1931. There is one no-hitter in which the team allowed 
at least a run, thrown by Chance in 1967. The most baserunners allowed 
in a no-hitter were by Chance (in 1967) and Liriano (in 2011), who each 
allowed six. Four no-hitters were thrown at home, and three were thrown 
on the road. They threw one in April, one in May, one in July, three in 
August, and one in September. Of the seven no-hitters, three have been 
won by a score of 1–0, more common than any other results. The largest 
margin of victory in a no-hitter was a 7–0 win by Eric Milton in 1999. 
The smallest margin of victory in a Twins no-hitter came in 1–0 wins – 
by Johnson in 1920, Kralick in 1962, and Liriano in 2011 – and a 2–1 win 
by Chance in 1967. The umpire is also an integral part of any no-hitter. 
The task of the umpire in a baseball game is to make any decision "which 
involves judgment, such as, but not limited to, whether a batted ball is 
fair or foul, whether a pitch is a strike or a ball, or whether a runner 
is safe or out… [the umpire's judgment on such matters] is final."[6] Part 
of the duties of the umpire making calls at home plate includes defining 
the strike zone, which "is defined as that area over homeplate (sic) the 
upper limit of which is a horizontal line at the midpoint between the top 
of the shoulders and the top of the uniform pants, and the lower level 
is a line at the hollow beneath the kneecap."[6] These calls define every 
baseball game and are therefore integral to the completion of any no-hitter.[7] 
A different umpire presided over each of the franchise's seven no-hitters. 
