The Philadelphia Phillies are a Major League Baseball franchise based in 
Philadelphia. They play in the National League East division. Also known 
in their early years as the "Philadelphia Quakers",[1] pitchers for the 
Phillies have thrown thirteen separate no-hitters in franchise history.[2] 
A no-hitter is officially recognized by Major League Baseball only "when 
a pitcher (or pitchers) retires each batter on the opposing team during 
the entire course of a game, which consists of at least nine innings".[3] 
No-hitters of less than nine complete innings were previously recognized 
by the league as official; however, several rule alterations in 1991 changed 
the rule to its current form.[4] A no-hitter is rare enough that one team 
in Major League Baseball has never had a pitcher accomplish the feat.[a] 
Of the thirteen no-hitters pitched by Phillies players, three have been 
won by a score of 6–0, and three by a score of 1–0, more common than any 
other results. The largest margin of victory in a Phillies no-hitter was 
ten runs, in a 10–0 win by Chick Fraser. Charlie Ferguson's no-hitter, 
the first in franchise history, was a 1–0 victory, as were two of the more 
recent regular season no-hitters, thrown by Kevin Millwood in 2003 and 
Roy Halladay in 2010. Three pitchers to throw no-hitters for the Phillies 
have been left-handed: Johnny Lush (in 1906), Terry Mulholland (in 1990) 
and Cole Hamels (in 2015). The other eight pitchers were right-handed. 
Halladay is the only Phillies' pitcher to throw more than one no-hitter 
in a Phillies uniform, and others, including Hall of Famer Jim Bunning, 
have pitched more than one in their careers.[5] The longest interval between 
Phillies no-hitters was between the games pitched by Lush and Bunning, 
encompassing 58 years, 1 month, and 20 days from May 1, 1906 to June 21, 
1964. Conversely, the shortest interval between no-hitters was between 
Halladay's two 2010 no-hitters, with a total of merely four months and 
seven days from May 29 to October 6; the shortest gap between regular-season 
no-hitters was between Mulholland's and Tommy Greene's games (nine months 
and eight days from August 15, 1990 to May 23, 1991).[6] Two opponents 
have been no-hit by the Phillies more than one time: the San Francisco 
Giants, who were defeated by Mulholland (in 1990) and Millwood (in 2003); 
and the Cincinnati Reds, who were no-hit by Rick Wise (in 1971) and Halladay 
(in 2010). The umpire is also an integral part of any no-hitter. The task 
of the umpire in a baseball game is to make any decision "which involves 
judgment, such as, but not limited to, whether a batted ball is fair or 
foul, whether a pitch is a strike or a ball, or whether a runner is safe 
or out… [the umpire's judgment on such matters] is final."[7] Part of the 
duties of the umpire making calls at home plate includes defining the strike 
zone, which "is defined as that area over homeplate (sic) the upper limit 
of which is a horizontal line at the midpoint between the top of the shoulders 
and the top of the uniform pants, and the lower level is a line at the 
hollow beneath the kneecap."[7] These calls define every baseball game 
and are therefore integral to the completion of any no-hitter. A different 
umpire presided over each of the Phillies' thirteen no-hitters, including 
Wes Curry, who created Major League Baseball's catcher interference rule.[8] 
Two perfect games, a special subcategory of no-hitter, have been pitched 
in Phillies history. This feat was achieved by Bunning in 1964, which was 
the first perfect game in the National League since 1880,[5] and Halladay 
in 2010. As defined by Major League Baseball, "in a perfect game, no batter 
reaches any base during the course of the game."[3] On July 25, 2015, Phillies 
left-hander Cole Hamels threw his first career no-hitter in a 5–0 win over 
the Chicago Cubs at the historic Wrigley Field. He narrowly missed completing 
a perfect game by walking two Cubs batters. Odubel Herrera, Phillies centerfielder, 
nearly dropped the game's final out at the warning track after he overran 
a long fly ball hit by Cubs rookie sensation Kris Bryant; Herrera, however, 
was able to snag the ball with an awkward sliding catch to close out the 
game and preserve Hamels's no-hitter. In addition to this being Cole Hamels's 
first no-hitter, this was the fourth no hitter caught by longtime Phillies 
catcher Carlos Ruiz, who now has tied the MLB record for no-hitters caught. 
