The Chicago White Sox are a Major League Baseball franchise based in Chicago. 
They play in the American League Central division. Pitchers for the White 
Sox have thrown eighteen no-hitters in franchise history.[1] A no-hitter 
is officially recognized by Major League Baseball only “when a pitcher 
(or pitchers) allows no hits during the entire course of a game, which 
consists of at least nine innings. In a no-hit game, a batter may reach 
base via a walk, an error, a hit by pitch, a passed ball or wild pitch 
on strike three, or catcher’s interference.”[2] No-hitters of less than 
nine complete innings were previously recognized by the league as official; 
however, several rule alterations in 1991 changed the rule to its current 
form.[3] A no-hitter is rare enough that one team in Major League Baseball 
has never had a pitcher accomplish the feat.[a] Three perfect games, a 
special subcategory of no-hitter, have been pitched in White Sox history, 
which equals the New York Yankees for the most perfect games pitched by 
any MLB franchise. As defined by Major League Baseball, “in a perfect game, 
no batter reaches any base during the course of the game.”[2] These feats 
were achieved by Charlie Robertson in 1922, which was the first perfect 
game on the road in MLB history, Mark Buehrle in 2009,[4] and Philip Humber 
in 2012. Nixey Callahan threw the first no-hitter in White Sox history 
on September 20, 1902; the most recent no-hitter was thrown by Philip Humber 
on April 21, 2012.[4] Only two left-handed pitchers have threw no-hitters 
in franchise and three of the four most recent no-hitters: Wilson Álvarez 
(in 1991) and Buehrle (in 2007 and 2009). The other 16 pitchers were right-handed. 
Two pitchers have thrown more than one no-hitter in a White Sox uniform, 
including a hall of famer Ed Walsh and Buehrle. Ten no-hitters were thrown 
at home and eight on the road. They threw four in April, one in May, one 
in June, two in July, five in August, and five in September. The longest 
interval between no-hitters was between the games pitched by Bill Dietrich 
and Bob Keegan, encompassing twenty years, two months, and nineteen days 
from June 1, 1937 till August 20, 1957. Conversely, the shortest interval 
between no-hitters was between the games pitched by Vern Kennedy and Dietrich, 
encompassing merely one year, nine months and one day from August 31, 1935 
till June 1, 1937.[4] They no-hit the Detroit Tigers the most, which occurred 
four times, which were defeated by Callahan in 1902, Smith in 1905, Robertson 
in 1920, and Joel Horlen in 1967. There have been three no-hitters which 
the team allowed at least a run, one by Joe Benz, a combined no-hitter 
by Blue Moon Odom and Francisco Barrios, and most recently by Joe Cowley 
in 1986. The most baserunners allowed in a White Sox no-hitter was a combined 
no-hitter by Odom and Barrios (in 1976), who allowed 12. Of the eighteen 
no-hitters, four have been won by a score of 6–0, more common than any 
other results. The largest margin of victory in a White Sox no-hitter was 
a 15–0 win by Frank Smith in 1905. The smallest margin of victory was a 
1–0 win by Smith in 1908 and by Odom and Barrios who combined to throw 
a no-hitter in a 2–1 victory in 1976. The umpire is also an integral part 
of any no-hitter. The task of the umpire in a baseball game is to make 
any decision “which involves judgment, such as, but not limited to, whether 
a batted ball is fair or foul, whether a pitch is a strike or a ball, or 
whether a runner is safe or out… [the umpire’s judgment on such matters] 
is final.”[5] Part of the duties of the umpire making calls at home plate 
includes defining the strike zone, which "is defined as that area over 
homeplate (sic) the upper limit of which is a horizontal line at the midpoint 
between the top of the shoulders and the top of the uniform pants, and 
the lower level is a line at the hollow beneath the kneecap."[5] These 
calls define every baseball game and are therefore integral to the completion 
of any no-hitter.[6] Fourteen different umpires, notably Eric Cooper, presided 
over the White Sox’ eighteen no-hitters. Cooper umpired both Buehrle’s 
no-hitters. The manager is another integral part of any no-hitter. The 
tasks of the manager include determining the starting rotation as well 
as the batting order and defensive lineup every game. Fourteen different 
managers, such as Ozzie Guillén, have led the team during the White Sox’ 
