The Cincinnati Reds are a Major League Baseball franchise based in Cincinnati. 
They play in the National League Central division. Also known in their 
early years as the "Cincinnati Red Stockings" (1882–89) and "Cincinnati 
Redlegs" (1954–59)[1] pitchers for the Reds have thrown 16 no-hitters in 
franchise history.[2] A no-hitter is officially recognized by Major League 
Baseball only "when a pitcher (or pitchers) retires each batter on the 
opposing team during the entire course of a game, which consists of at 
least nine innings".[3] No-hitters of less than nine complete innings were 
previously recognized by the league as official; however, several rule 
alterations in 1991 changed the rule to its current form.[4] A no-hitter 
is relatively rare, but only one team in Major League Baseball has never 
had a pitcher accomplish the feat.[a] On September 16, 1988, Tom Browning 
threw the only perfect game, a special subcategory of no-hitter, in Reds 
history.[5] As defined by Major League Baseball, "in a perfect game, no 
batter reaches any base during the course of the game."[3] While Dick Burns 
of the Outlaw Reds hurled the first no-hitter in Cincinnati baseball history,[6] 
Bumpus Jones threw the first no-hitter in Reds history on October 15, 1892. 
The most recent no-hitter was thrown by Homer Bailey on July 2, 2013.[5] 
Six left-handed starting pitchers have thrown no-hitters in franchise history 
and the other seven pitchers were right-handed. Eleven Reds no-hitters 
were thrown at home and only five on the road. They threw two in April, 
three in May, four in June, three in July, one in August, two in September, 
and one in October. The longest interval between no-hitters in franchise 
history was between the games pitched by Browning and Bailey, encompassing 
over 24 years. Conversely, the shortest interval between no-hitters was 
between the two consecutive games pitched by Johnny Vander Meer, encompassing 
merely 4 days from June 11, 1938 till June 15, 1938.[5] The team against 
whom the Reds have thrown the most no-hit games (three) is the Atlanta 
Braves (formerly "Boston Braves"), who were defeated by Vander Meer (first 
no-hitter in 1938), Clyde Shoun (in 1944), and Ewell Blackwell (in 1947). 
There are two no-hitters which the team allowed at least a run. The most 
baserunners allowed in a no-hitter was by Jim Maloney (in 1965), who allowed 
11. Of the 16 no-hitters, five have been won by a score of 1–0, more common 
than any other results. The largest margin of victory in a Reds no-hitter 
was an 11–0 win by Ted Breitenstein in 1898. The smallest margin of victory 
was 1–0 in wins by Fred Toney in 1917, Shoun in 1944, Maloney in 1965, 
Browning in 1988, and Bailey in 2012. The umpire is also an integral part 
of any no-hitter. The task of the umpire in a baseball game is to make 
any decision "which involves judgment, such as, but not limited to, whether 
a batted Ball is fair or foul, whether a pitch is a strike or a Ball, or 
whether a runner is safe or out… [the umpire's judgment on such matters] 
is final."[7] Part of the duties of the umpire making calls at home plate 
includes defining the strike zone, which "is defined as that area over 
homeplate [sic] the upper limit of which is a horizontal line at the midpoint 
between the top of the shoulders and the top of the uniform pants, and 
the lower level is a line at the hollow beneath the kneecap."[7] These 
calls define every baseball game and are therefore integral to the completion 
of any no-hitter.[8] 14 different umpires presided over each of the Reds' 
16 no-hitters. The manager is another integral part of any no-hitter. The 
tasks of the manager is to determine the starting rotation as well as batting 
order and defensive lineup every game. Managers choosing the right pitcher 
and right defensive lineup at a right game at a right place at a right 
time would lead to a no-hitter.[citation needed] 12 different managers 
