This List of Negro league baseball champions includes champions of black 
baseball prior to the organization of any traditional Negro league and 
goes through to the collapse of segregated baseball after Jackie Robinson 
broke the baseball color line in 1946. Champions include self-declared, 
regional and (later) league champions, but is limited to top-tier teams 
and major Negro leagues. The champions listed after 1948 through the 1950s 
are listed for posterity, but the quality of play had deteriorated so far 
as to only incidentally be covered by contemporary media or historians. 
During the formative years of black baseball, most Negro teams toured the 
US playing white or mixed-race teams of an amateur or semi-pro standing. 
There was little to no collaboration between black teams, and few if any 
scheduled meetings. Therefore, during this era, it was usually up to an 
individual team (or newspaper writer) to declare themselves the black champion 
and see if anyone challenged them. * — 1888 Four teams were selected by 
the Cuban Giants' owner to participate in a tournament to select a "Colored 
Champion"; the New York Gorhams finished third and the Norfolk Red Stockings 
finished fourth. There were no championships claimed during this period. 
Beginning around 1890, political and economic turmoil—eventually leading 
to the Panic of 1893—took a toll on the bottom line of each Negro team. 
Every significant Negro team, except for two, ceased operations entirely. 
Only one team, the Chicago Unions, managed to survive the crisis intact; 
while the Cuban Giants suspended play at the end of 1891 but reformed for 
the 1893 season.[2]:30 Segregated baseball leagues, both black and white, 
started to appear around this time. Starting in 1887, the International 
League began prohibiting the signing of black players. By 1890, the last 
of the "white" leagues (the American Association and the National League) 
had unofficially banned blacks, and the color line was drawn. Early on, 
due to social and lingering fiscal reasons, there was minimal interest 
and press coverage regarding black teams, so champions were not easily 
determined. After the economic crisis had subsided around 1897, black teams 
began actively competing against other black teams for local or regional 
championships. — Chicago Columbia Giants[note 1] 5–0 Chicago Unions 1900b 
CHICAGO COLUMBIA GIANTS β 1900b Genuine Cuban Giants β β — Self-declared 
champion or unchallenged § — Unofficial champion derived from estimates 
of the known won-loss records; no team claimed or was awarded a championship 
in these years due mainly to the organized schedule being abandoned for 
financial reasons and the team listed is only a generalization * — Disputed. 
Chicago won the "Chicago City League" tournament but the Kansas City Giants 
and St. Paul Gophers had both beaten Chicago and both claimed to be the 
"Champions of the West". The championships during this period were informal 
as the post-season challenges were issued by the individual teams. 1899b 
East Cuban X-Giants 7–4 West Chicago Columbia Giants 1900b West Columbia 
Giants ?–? East Genuine Cuban Giants a,b — The X-Giants initially played 
the Unions for the championship; during the series, Columbia stepped up 
and issued challenges to the Unions for the Western championship and the 
X-Giants for the Colored championship. * — 1915 Lincoln Stars were leading 
in the fourth inning of the ninth and deciding game when the game was called 
and never completed; the Stars then beat the second place Indianapolis 
ABCs 4 games to 2 and claimed the colored championship for 1915. With the 
emergence of the hard-fisted leadership of former pitcher Rube Foster, 
playing a formal scheduled season between other black teams became reality. 
Foster, known for his business acumen, recognized that attendance was just 
high enough so that a reasonable profit can be derived from gate receipts 
to sustain the travel and commitment required to maintain a league schedule. 
This led to the formation of a handful of official Negro leagues, and later 
to a planned end-of-season World Series. 1 — First half champion   2 — 
Second half champion   1&2 — Both first and second half champion § — Unofficial 
champion derived from estimates of the known won-loss records; no team 
claimed or was awarded a championship in these years due mainly to the 
organized schedule being abandoned for financial reasons and the team listed 
is only a generalization Beginning in 1924, the championships during this 
period were formal, pre-arranged post-season challenges agreed to by the 
respective leagues. The 1922 championship was an informal post-season challenge 
issued by the individual teams. Several factors led to the collapse of 
league play beginning with the 1928 break up of Eastern Colored League 
and then the 1929 folding of the American Negro League. These leagues were 
constantly warring with the Negro National League regarding player raiding 
and contract disputes; this led to an instability that was incompatible 
with the weakening economy. That October saw the 1929 stock market crash, 
known as Black Tuesday, which was a sign of things to come. In 1930, the 
NNL collapsed (largely due to the death of Rube Foster) but the individual 
teams continued to play. The NNL regrouped for 1931, but again collapsed 
— this time for good and the teams were on their own. By 1932, the Great 
Depression had taken a severe toll on the entire country. Only a few organized 
Negro leagues survived and all of those were either a minor or semi-pro 
league. The Negro Southern League was considered the highest quality surviving 
league and many players (and two teams) migrated to it; it therefore became 
the de facto major league for the 1932 season. 1932 EWL* Detroit Wolves 
§ [2]:288 * — The East-West League was unable to survive the low attendance 
due to the Depression and folded mid-season; the Detroit Wolves had the 
best record at the time the league ceased operations, though no official 
champion was ever declared. The Wolves later ended up going broke and also 
folding before the end of the season. After the worst of the depression 
had passed, teams were again able to profit from playing a league schedule. 
At first, only a few team owners were able to put together enough investors 
to join a league; therefore, for the first time in black baseball, one 
league spanned both the eastern and western regions of the US. A new Negro 
National League was formed with both east and west teams. * — 1933 Pittsburgh 
Crawfords claimed first half title; the Chicago American Giants disputed 
that claim but the league dismissed it. Pittsburgh and the Nashville Elite 
Giants tied for the second half title; Pittsburgh beat Nashville in a playoff 
2 games to 1. Pittsburgh was awarded the championship by the league's president 
(who was also the owner of the Crawfords).[15] Negro league baseball hit 
its stride after the country had recovered from the devastation of the 
Great Depression. The second incarnation of the Negro National League became 
the "eastern" league and a year later the new Negro American League assumed 
the role of the "western" league. Both leagues generally respected the 
players' contracts and a relative peace existed between the leagues. An 
agreed upon championship series was held at the end of the season between 
each league's pennant winner. Only integration could challenge their success, 
and it came in 1946. By 1949, the NNL broke up and the NAL was the only 
league in operation. 1 — First half champion   2 — Second half champion   1&2 
— Both first and second half champion By 1949, enough black talent had 
integrated into the white leagues (both major and minor) that the Negro 
leagues themselves had become a minor league circuit. With the demise of 
the NNL, only the NAL remained as a top-tier league for black players. 
If the purpose of the Negro leagues was to end segregation, then in 1947 
(with Jackie Robinson's MLB debut) they became a success and their mission 
was complete. With an infrastructure still in place and a viable audience 
for a short period of time, there was still money to be made for a few 
more years before total demise. Therefore, the following teams are listed 
for posterity; the real black championship contest was now considered to 
be the annual East–West Game. Below are the regional and league championships 
by club. During the formative years until about 1891, it was usually up 
to an individual team (or newspaper writer) to declare themselves the black 
champion and see if anyone challenged them; these are listed in the chart 
as "Declared" champions. Later, up until the end of the Great Depression, 
there were periods when press coverage and fan interest waned to the point 
that some seasons a champion was not determined; in these years a champion 
was retroactively determined by historical research as to which team probably 
had the most successful season and these are listed in the chart as "Unofficial" 
champions. Where a champion was determined via a traditional play-off, 
it is listed in the chart as an "Earned" champion. Only the seasons prior 
to integration are considered for this table; teams who continued after 
1948 are represented by a "+". * — The Chicago American Giants split from 
the Leland Giants who themselves were the result of a merge between the 
Chicago Unions and the Chicago Columbia Giants. Excluding co-championships 
of the Columbia Giants and Unions in 1899 and 1900, this group of related 
teams can claim a total of 18 championships (7 earned, 8 declared, 3 unofficial). 
Major League Baseball began the tradition of an "All-Star" exhibition game 
between the stars of the American League and National League in 1933. Encouraged 
by the success of the white game, Gus Greenlee organized a black All-Star 
game at the end of the 1933 season. This game was to feature the top talent 
from the western region against the top eastern region talent, hence the 
name "East–West Game". In the years a World Series was not held, the East–West 
Game was a surrogate championship game – replete with the media hype and 
