The Toronto Blue Jays are a Major League Baseball (MLB) team based in Toronto, 
Ontario. They play in the American League East division. The Blue Jays 
first played their home games at Exhibition Stadium until 1989, when they 
moved into the SkyDome, which was renamed Rogers Centre in 2005.[1] The 
first game of the new baseball season for a team is played on Opening Day, 
and being named the Opening Day starter is an honour, which is often given 
to the player who is expected to lead the pitching staff that season,[2] 
though there are various strategic reasons why a team's best pitcher might 
not start on Opening Day.[3] The Blue Jays have used 19 different Opening 
Day starting pitchers in their 34 seasons. The 19 starters have a combined 
Opening Day record of 12 wins, 13 losses and 9 no decisions. No decisions 
are only awarded to the starting pitcher if the game is won or lost after 
the starting pitcher has left the game. The Blue Jays first Opening Day 
starting pitcher was Bill Singer, who received a no decision against the 
Chicago White Sox. Roy Halladay holds the Blue Jays' record for most Opening 
Day starts with seven consecutively from 2003 to 2009, and has an Opening 
Day record of 3–3. Halladay also has the most starts at home with four. 
Dave Lemanczyk has the worst winning percentage as the Opening Day starting 
pitcher with a record of 0–2, both of which were pitched away from Exhibition 
Stadium. Overall, the Blue Jays' Opening Day starting pitchers have a record 
of 0 wins and 1 loss at Exhibition Stadium, and 5 wins and 3 losses at 
SkyDome/Rogers Centre. In addition, although the Blue Jays were nominally 
the home team on Opening Day 2001, the game was played in Hiram Bithorn 
Stadium in Hato Rey, Puerto Rico.[4] Esteban Loaiza started the game in 
Hato Rey and won, making the Blue Jays' Opening Day starting pitchers' 
combined home record 6 wins and 4 losses, and their away record 6 wins 
and 9 losses. The Blue Jays went on to play in the American League Championship 
Series playoff games in 1985, 1989 and 1991, and won the World Series in 
1992 and 1993.[5] Dave Stieb, Jimmy Key and Jack Morris were the Opening 
Day starting pitchers those years, and had a combined Opening Day record 
of 2 wins and 3 losses. The Blue Jays and the Cleveland Indians currently 
hold the record for the longest Opening Day game in Major League history. 
They set that record on Opening Day 2012, when Jairo Asencio of the Indians 
gave up a 3-run home run in the top of the 16th inning to give the Blue 
Jays the win. This broke the record of 15 innings set between the Indians 
