Major League Baseball and its participating clubs have retired various 
uniform numbers over the course of time, ensuring that those numbers are 
never worn again and thus will always be associated with particular players 
or managers of note. The use of numbers on uniforms to better identify 
one player from another, and hence to boost sales of scorecards, was tried 
briefly by the Cleveland Indians of 1916. The first team to permanently 
adopt the practice was the New York Yankees of 1929. By 1932, all 16 major 
league clubs were issuing numbers, and by 1937, the leagues passed rules 
requiring it. The Yankees' original approach was to simply assign the numbers 
1 through 8 to the regular starting lineup in their normal batting order. 
Hence, Babe Ruth wore number 3 and Lou Gehrig number 4. The first major 
leaguer whose number was retired was Gehrig, in July 1939, following his 
retirement due to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, which became known popularly 
as Lou Gehrig's Disease. Since then, over 150 other people have had their 
numbers retired, some with more than one team. This includes managers and 
coaches, as Major League Baseball is the only one of the major North American 
professional leagues in which the coaching staff wear the same uniforms 
as players. Three numbers have been retired in honor of people not directly 
involved on the playing field – all three for team executives. Some of 
the game's early stars, such as Ty Cobb and Christy Mathewson, retired 
before numbers came into usage. Teams often celebrate their retired numbers 
and other honored people by hanging banners with the numbers and names. 
Early stars, as well as honored non-players, will often have numberless 
banners hanging along with the retired numbers. Because fewer and fewer 
players stay with one team long enough to warrant their number being retired, 
some players believe that getting their number retired is a greater honor 
than going into the Baseball Hall of Fame. Ron Santo, upon his number 10 
being retired by the Chicago Cubs on the last day of the 2003 regular season, 
enthusiastically told the Wrigley Field crowd as his #10 flag was hoisted, 
"This is my Hall of Fame!"[1] However, Santo would be inducted into the 
Hall of Fame in July 2012, nearly two years after his death, after being 
voted in by the Veterans Committee. It is very rare for a team to reissue 
a retired number, and usually requires a special circumstance, such as 
the person for whom the number was retired returning to the team in a player, 
coach or manager role. Harold Baines provides one example of this. In cases 
of franchise relocation, the handling of existing retired numbers is at 
the discretion of team management. The team may decide to continue honoring 
the retired numbers, (as did the San Francisco Giants), or it may choose 
to make a "fresh start" and reissue the numbers (as the Washington Nationals 
have done). The Cincinnati Reds returned Willard Hershberger's number 5 
to circulation two years after his death. Cincinnati later re-retired the 
number to honor Johnny Bench. When the Florida Marlins moved to their current 
stadium, Marlins Park, and were rebranded as the Miami Marlins; the number 
5, which had been retired for the team's late first president, Carl Barger, 
was returned to circulation because player Logan Morrison requested permission 
to wear the number to honor his father.[2] The following numbers have been 
retired in honor of multiple players: Only one team does not currently 
have any retired jersey numbers (other than Robinson's #42 retired in all 
of MLB). The Washington Nationals franchise had retired jerseys in honor 
of four players when known as the Montreal Expos, but un-retired them upon 
moving to Washington. The Nationals have established a "Ring of Honor" 
instead, which includes two of those Expos players, Gary Carter and Andre 
Dawson; the Nationals' first manager, Frank Robinson; players from the 
original Washington Senators Joe Cronin, Rick Ferrell, Goose Goslin, Bucky 
Harris, Walter Johnson, Heinie Manush, Sam Rice, and Early Wynn, and owner 
Clark Griffith; players from the second Senators franchise Frank Howard 
and Harmon Killebrew; and Homestead Grays players Cool Papa Bell, Ray Brown, 
Josh Gibson, Buck Leonard, Cumberland Posey, and Jud Wilson.[7][8] The 
Miami Marlins had previously retired #5 in honor of their first team president, 
the late Carl Barger, but un-retired it entering the 2012 season. The Marlins 
did not have another retired number until September 26, 2016, when #16 
was retired following the death of pitcher José Fernández.[9] The Seattle 
Mariners have kept the following numbers out of circulation since the departure 
of a popular member of the team who wore it: #14 (Lou Piniella), #19 (Jay 
Buhner), and #51 (initially for Randy Johnson, and later for Ichiro Suzuki). 
The Mariners also kept #11 out of circulation for Edgar Martínez from his 
retirement as a player at the end of the 2004 season until his return to 
the team as hitting coach in 2015. Similarly, no one had worn #33 for the 
Colorado Rockies since the departure of Larry Walker in 2004 until Walker 
gave his blessing for Justin Morneau, a fellow British Columbia native 
who had idolized Walker as a boy, to wear it when Morneau was with the 
team from 2014 to 2015.[10] Some teams have not formally retired certain 
numbers, but nonetheless kept them out of circulation. For example, the 
Los Angeles Dodgers' current policy is only to retire the numbers of longtime 
club members if they are inducted into the Hall of Fame; the lone exception 
was longtime Dodger player and coach Jim Gilliam, whose #19 was retired 
when he died of a cerebral hemorrhage during the Dodgers' 1978 postseason 
run. Nevertheless, the Dodgers have informally kept Fernando Valenzuela's 
#34 out of circulation since his retirement.[11] On Opening Day of the 
2012 season, the New York Mets unveiled a memorial "Kid 8" logo to honor 
the late Gary Carter. Although no Met has worn the number 8 since Carter's 
election to the Hall of Fame, it is not retired. Following Willie Mays' 
retirement in 1973, Mets owner Joan Payson promised him that the team would 
not reissue his #24; since then, the only Met to wear it has been Rickey 
Henderson from 1999 to 2000 (with the exception of a minor league call-up 
named Kelvin Torve, who was inexplicably issued #24 in August 1990 before 
fan complaints prompted the team to change his number to #39 ten days later[12]). 
After Darryl Kile's death in 2002, the teams he played for (Colorado Rockies, 
Houston Astros, and St. Louis Cardinals) took his #57 out of circulation, 
but have not formally retired the number. The New York Yankees have not 
re-issued Paul O'Neill's #21 since he ended his career, except for a brief 
period in 2008 when Morgan Ensberg and then LaTroy Hawkins wore #21, before 
fan complaints led Hawkins to change his number to #22 in April. Also, 
no Yankee has worn #2 since Derek Jeter retired in 2014. The Boston Red 
Sox have not re-issued uniform numbers 21 (Roger Clemens), 33 (Jason Varitek) 
and 49 (Tim Wakefield) since those players left the Red Sox or ended their 
careers. Normally the individual clubs are responsible for retiring numbers. 
On April 15, 1997, Major League Baseball took the unusual move of retiring 
a number for all teams. On the 50th anniversary of Jackie Robinson's breaking 
the major league color barrier, his number 42 was retired throughout the 
majors, at the order of Commissioner Bud Selig. This meant that no future 
player on any major league team could wear number 42, although players 
wearing #42 at the time were allowed to continue wearing it (Mariano Rivera 
was the last active player to be grandfathered in, retiring after the 2013 
season). Starting in the 2007 season, the 60th anniversary of Robinson's 
Major League debut, players and coaches have all worn the number 42 as 
a tribute to Robinson on Jackie Robinson Day, April 15. There is a lobby 
to have uniform #21 retired in all of baseball to honor Roberto Clemente.[13] 
Four teams have honored players who played before the advent of uniform 
numbers by placing their names among those of players whose numbers have 
