The List of Major League Baseball players named in the Mitchell Report 
includes active and former Major League players as well as free agents. 
The Mitchell Report is the result of former US Senator George J. Mitchell's 
(D–ME) 20-month investigation into performance-enhancing drug use in Major 
League Baseball (MLB). It was released December 13, 2007. The following 
is a list of the Major League Baseball players named in the Mitchell Report.[1][2][3][4][5] 
Inclusion on the list does not necessarily mean the player was involved 
in illegal activity. In some instances, insufficient evidence was provided 
to draw a conclusion, and some players were mentioned in other contexts. 
The Mitchell Report also stated that interviews were requested of five 
MLB players who had spoken out publicly on the steroid issue. Of these 
players, only one, Frank Thomas, was willing to be interviewed. The Mitchell 
Report stated that there was no evidence that any of these five had used 
performance-enhancing drugs. Curt Schilling, one of the four players who 
declined to interview with Mitchell, explained that he denied Mitchell's 
request because he "would have nothing to offer" Mitchell's investigation 
"other than personal opinion and hypotheticals."[6] Jason Giambi was required 
to interview with Mitchell and his investigators by Commissioner Bud Selig 
under threat of discipline. This stemmed from Giambi's ongoing involvement 
with the BALCO investigation and statements he had given to the media. 
Major League players that were active at the time of the report are listed 
in bold italics. Major League players that were active at the time of the 
report are listed in bold italics. If a player responded to allegations 
after the release of the report, their response appears in the last column, 
"Post-report player response". On December 23, Clemens issued an unconditional 
denial through YouTube.[30] Clemens told his side of the story in an interview 
on CBS' "60 Minutes" that aired on January 6, 2008. Furthermore, Clemens' 
attorney's law firm is conducting its own investigation into the allegations.[31] 
On the night that the 60 Minutes interview aired, Clemens filed a defamation 
suit against McNamee in a Texas state court, and one of McNamee's attorneys 
responded by saying that McNamee would likely countersue in New York.[32] 
Later he did admitted to using HGH: "I did HGH. It didn't help me out. 
It didn't make me any better. I had the worst years of my career from a 
batting average standpoint. And I got hurt. So there was no good that came 
out of it for me -- it was not performance-enhancing for me." [58] [71] 
Eight current major league players and eight former major league players 
were mentioned in the media as purchasers of performance-enhancing drugs 
from Signature Pharmacy and several rejuvenation centers. Several online 
pharmacies (Signature Pharmacy being one of them), anti-aging clinics and 
doctors that have issued prescriptions for performance-enhancing drugs 
have been under investigation by federal and state authorities. Mitchell 
requested the 16 players interview with him, but only José Canseco accepted 
his offer. Major League players that were active at the time of the report 
