For most Giants radio broadcasts on KNBR, Jon Miller and Dave Flemming 
take turns calling play-by-play (usually Miller will call innings 1-2, 
5-6, 8-9, and Flemming will call innings 3-4, and 7). The Giants' telecasts 
on CSN Bay Area feature Duane Kuiper as play-by-play announcer with Mike 
Krukow as color analyst. On KNTV telecasts, Miller teams with Krukow for 
innings 1-3 and 7-9 while Kuiper moves to the radio booth alongside Flemming; 
the two then switch places for innings 4-6. Through 2010, Miller held a 
second job as play-by-play announcer for ESPN Sunday Night Baseball, and 
therefore usually missed weekend Giants games. On these occasions, Greg 
Papa would take Miller's place on either the television or radio side; 
however, on weekends when the Giants were featured on Fox television (Saturday) 
or ESPN (Sunday) and therefore not on local TV, Kuiper and Krukow would 
join Flemming on the radio, and Miller would generally work the Saturday 
game if ESPN was in San Francisco that weekend. Since leaving ESPN, Miller 
also calls select games on CSN Bay Area. On July 14, 2006, for a Friday 
night home game, Flemming made his television broadcast debut for the Giants. 
Since then, Flemming and Kuiper have taken turns calling all weekend road 
games on the radio and on CSN Bay Area (Flemming calling innings 1-3, 7-9, 
and Kuiper calling innings 4-6 on the radio; and vice versa on TV). However, 
Flemming solely calls all weekend home games and road games against the 
Oakland A's on the radio. (It is noted that Miller would fill in for Flemming 
for Saturday's game only if the Sunday game is on ESPN.) After every game 
all of the announcers come together on the radio side for the "post game 
(w)rap", recapping the game's key plays and selecting players-of-the-game 
in humorous fashion. F.P. Santangelo, now with the Washington Nationals, 
assisted Flemming on some broadcasts, and retired broadcaster Lon Simmons 
(died 2015) was usually present several times a season. Since May 2007, 
and only during weekend home games and road games against the A's, retired 
Giants first baseman J.T. Snow has performed color analyst duties alongside 
Flemming. In the 2010 season, Doug Greenwald (son of former Giants broadcaster 
Hank Greenwald and regular announcer for the AAA (Fresno Grizzlies) called 
several Giants radio broadcasts as a substitute for Flemming. Former Giants 
reliever Jeremy Affeldt joined Kuiper for a radio broadcast on September 
15, 2016 Spanish-language radio broadcasting duties are handled by Erwin 
Higueros, who handles the play-by-play, and former Giant Tito Fuentes, 
who performed color analyst duties to Higueros's lead. Fuentes used to 
be the announcer for the Giants. Over the years, the Giants have employed 
numerous other on-air broadcasters, including Hall of Famers Russ Hodges 
and Lon Simmons, as well as Al Michaels, Hank Greenwald, Ron Fairly, Lindsey 
Nelson, Ted Robinson, and Joe Angel, among others in English, and Amaury 
