The New York Yankees are a professional baseball team based in the Bronx, 
New York. They compete in the East Division of Major League Baseball's 
(MLB) American League (AL). The club began play in 1903 as the Highlanders, 
after owners Frank Farrell and William S. Devery had bought the defunct 
Baltimore Orioles and moved the team to New York City; in 1913, the team 
changed its nickname to the Yankees.[1] From 1903 to 2016, the franchise 
has won more than 10,000 games and 27 World Series championships.[2] The 
list below documents players and teams that hold particular club records. 
Outfielder Babe Ruth holds the most franchise records, with 16, including 
career home runs, and career and single-season batting average and on-base 
percentage. Shortstop Derek Jeter has the second-most records among hitters, 
with eight. Jeter's marks include the records for career hits, singles, 
doubles, and stolen bases. Among pitchers, Whitey Ford has the most Yankees 
records with five, all of which are career totals. These include games 
won, games started, and innings pitched. Several Yankees hold AL and MLB 
records. Ruth has MLB single-season records for extra-base hits and total 
bases, and holds four other AL single-season records. Outfielder Joe DiMaggio 
recorded hits in 56 consecutive games in the 1941 season, a total that 
remains an MLB record. Jack Chesbro holds three AL records that he set 
in 1904: games won, games started, and complete games. Statistics are current 
through the 2016 season. These are records of players with the best performance 
in particular statistical categories during their career with the Yankees.[3][4] 
These are records of Yankees players with the best performance in particular 
statistical categories during a single season.[3][4] These are records 
of Yankees teams with the best performance in particular statistical categories 
during a single game.[46] These are records of Yankees teams with the best 
and worst performances in particular statistical categories during a single 
