Over the 140 years of Major League Baseball history, and over 210,000 games 
played,[1] there have been 23 official perfect games by the current definition. 
No pitcher has ever thrown more than one. The perfect game thrown by Don 
Larsen in game 5 of the 1956 World Series is the only postseason perfect 
game in major league history and one of only two postseason no-hitters. 
The first two major league perfect games, and the only two of the premodern 
era, were thrown in 1880, five days apart. The most recent perfect game 
was thrown on August 15, 2012 by Félix Hernández of the Seattle Mariners. 
There were three perfect games in 2012, with no other year ever having 
more than two thrown. By contrast, there have been spans of 23 and 33 consecutive 
seasons in which not a single perfect game was thrown. The first two pitchers 
to accomplish the feat did so in 1880, under rules that differed in many 
important respects from those of today's game: for example, only underhand 
pitching—from a flat, marked-out box 45 feet from home plate—was allowed, 
it took eight balls to draw a walk, and a batter was not awarded first 
base if hit by a pitch.[2] Lee Richmond, a left-handed pitcher for the 
Worcester Ruby Legs, threw the first perfect game. He played professional 
baseball for six years and pitched full-time for only three, finishing 
with a losing record. The second perfect game was thrown by John Montgomery 
Ward for the Providence Grays. Ward, an excellent pitcher who became an 
excellent position player, went on to be inducted into the Baseball Hall 
of Fame. Though convention has it that the modern era of Major League Baseball 
begins in 1900, the essential rules of the modern game were in place by 
the 1893 season. That year the pitching distance was moved back to 60 feet, 
6 inches, where it remains, and the pitcher's box was replaced by a rubber 
slab against which the pitcher was required to place his rear foot. Two 
other crucial rules changes had been made in recent years: In 1887, the 
rule awarding a hit batsman first base was instituted in the National League 
(this had been the rule in the American Association since 1884: first by 
the umpire's judgment of the impact; as of the following year, virtually 
automatically).[3] In 1889, the number of balls required for a walk was 
reduced to four.[4] Thus, from 1893 on, pitchers sought perfection in a 
game whose most important rules are the same as today, with two significant 
exceptions: counting a foul ball as a first or second strike, enforced 
by the National League as of 1901 and by the American League two years 
later, and the use of the designated hitter in American League games since 
the 1973 season.[5] During baseball's modern era, 21 pitchers have thrown 
perfect games. Most were accomplished major leaguers. Six have been inducted 
into the Baseball Hall of Fame: Cy Young, Addie Joss, Jim Bunning, Sandy 
Koufax, Catfish Hunter, and Randy Johnson. Roy Halladay won two Cy Young 
Awards and was named to eight All-Star teams. David Cone won the Cy Young 
once and was named to five All-Star teams. Four other perfect-game throwers, 
Dennis Martínez, Kenny Rogers, David Wells and Mark Buehrle each won over 
200 major league games. Matt Cain is a three-time All-Star and three-time 
World Series champion and has finished in the top ten of the Cy Young voting 
twice. Félix Hernández has also been a Cy Young Award winner, as well as 
a six-time All-Star. For a few, the perfect game was the highlight of an 
otherwise unremarkable career. Mike Witt and Tom Browning were solid major 
league pitchers; Browning was a one-time all-star with a career record 
of 123-90 in 12 seasons, while Witt was a two-time all-star, going 117-116 
in 12 seasons. Larsen, Charlie Robertson, and Len Barker were journeyman 
pitchers; each finished his major-league career with a losing record. Dallas 
Braden retired with a losing record after five seasons due to a shoulder 
injury. Philip Humber had never before thrown so much as a complete game 
prior to his perfect game, and his 16 career wins through the 2013 season 
are less than a third of any other perfect game pitcher's total aside from 
Braden. Richmond was pitching in his first full season in the big leagues 
after appearing in one game in 1879. He was apparently considered a good 
hitter, as he batted second in the lineup. His perfect game featured an 
unusual 9–3 putout, with Worcester right fielder Lon Knight throwing out 
Cleveland's Bill Phillips at first.[6] The play came on one of three balls 
Cleveland hit out of the infield.[7] Three outs were recorded on "foul 
bounds": balls caught after bouncing once in foul territory (the foul bound 
rule was eliminated three years later). In the seventh inning, the game 
was delayed for seven minutes due to rain; Richmond dried the ball off 
with sawdust when he returned to the mound.[8] A monument marks the site 
of the Worcester Agricultural Fairgrounds where the game took place, now 
part of the campus of Becker College.[9] The feat was recognized as unusual: 
a newspaper report described it as "the most wonderful game on record".[10][11] 
Monte Ward threw his perfect game at the Grays' park in Providence, but 
Buffalo, by virtue of a coin toss, which was the custom under the rules 
at that time, was officially the "home" team, batting in the bottom of 
each inning. At the age of 20 years, 105 days, Ward is the youngest pitcher 
ever to throw a perfect game. He batted sixth in the lineup. Beginning 
in 1881, the year after his perfect game, Ward spent more time as a position 
player than a pitcher; in 1885, following an arm injury, he became a full-time 
infielder.[12] The five days between Ward's game and Richmond's is the 
shortest amount of time between major-league perfect games. Young's perfect 
game was part of a hitless streak of 24 or 25⅓ straight innings—depending 
on whether or not partial innings at either end of the streak are included. 
In either calculation, the streak remains a record. It was also part of 
a streak of 45 straight innings in which Young did not give up a run, which 
was then a record.[15] Joss's was the most pressure-packed of any regular-season 
perfect game. With just four games left on their schedule, the Cleveland 
Naps were involved in a three-way pennant race with the Tigers and the 
White Sox, that day's opponents. Joss's counterpart, the great Ed Walsh, 
struck out 15 and gave up just four scattered singles. The lone, unearned 
run scored as a result of a botched pickoff play and a wild pitch.[17] 
The Naps ended the day tied with the Tigers for first, with the White Sox 
two games back; the Tigers would ultimately win the league by a half game 
over the Naps. Joss would throw a second no-hitter against the White Sox 
in 1910, making him and Tim Lincecum of the San Francisco Giants the only 
major league pitchers ever to throw two no-hitters against the same team. 
Robertson's perfect game was only his fifth appearance, and fourth start, 
in the big leagues. He finished his career with the fewest wins and lowest 
winning percentage (49–80, .380) of any perfect-game pitcher until Philip 
Humber, who pitched his perfect game in 2012. The Tigers, led by player-manager 
Ty Cobb, accused Robertson of illegally doctoring the ball with oil or 
grease.[18] In terms of the opposing team's ability to get on base, this 
is statistically the most unlikely of perfectos: the 1922 Tigers had an 
on-base percentage (OBP) of .373.[19] Larsen did not know he would pitch 
in Game 5 of the 1956 World Series until a few hours before gametime.[20] 
This was his second start of the Series; he'd lasted less than two innings 
in Game 2. In his perfect game, Larsen employed the style he had adopted 
in mid-season, working without a windup. Just one Dodgers batter—Pee Wee 
Reese, in the first inning—worked a three-ball count.[21] The Dodgers had 
the highest season winning percentage of any team ever to lose a perfect 
game: .604. The image of catcher Yogi Berra leaping into Larsen's arms 
after the final strike is one of the most famous in baseball history.[22] 
The 34 years between Robertson's feat and Larsen's is the longest gap between 
perfect games. Bunning's perfect game, pitched on Father's Day, was the 
first in the National League since Ward's 84 years before. Defying the 
baseball superstition that holds one should not talk about a no-hitter 
in progress, Bunning spoke to his teammates about the perfect game as it 
developed to loosen them up and relieve the pressure.[23] Koufax's perfect 
game was the first one pitched at night. It was nearly a double no-hitter, 
as Cubs pitcher Bob Hendley gave up only one hit, a bloop double to left-fielder 
Lou Johnson in the seventh inning that did not figure in the scoring. The 
Dodgers scored their only run in the fifth inning: Lou Johnson reached 
first on a walk, advanced to second on a sacrifice bunt, stole third, and 
scored when Cubs catcher Chris Krug overthrew third base on the play. The 
game also set records for the fewest number of hits by both teams, one, 
and the fewest number of base runners by both teams, two (both Johnson). 
Koufax's 14 strikeouts are tied with Matt Cain for the most ever thrown 
by a perfect game pitcher. Hunter, a talented batter, was also the hitting 
star of his perfect game. He went 3 for 4 with a double and 3 RBIs, including 
a bunt single that drove home the first and thus winning run in the seventh 
inning—easily the best offensive performance ever by a perfect game pitcher. 
This was the first no-hitter of the Athletics' Oakland tenure, which was 
only 25 games old. He was also the youngest pitcher ever to pitch a modern-era 
perfect game, at 22 years and 30 days old.[24] Barker's perfect game was 
the first one in which designated hitters were used. He didn't reach a 
three-ball count in the entire game.[25] Toronto shortstop Alfredo Griffin, 
who played for the losing team in this game, went on to play for the losers 
in the perfect games of Browning and Martínez. Also on the losing end of 
this game was Danny Ainge, who would play 14 seasons in the National Basketball 
Association. All 11 of Barker's strikeouts were swinging.[26] Witt's perfect 
game came on the last day of the 1984 season. Reggie Jackson, who drove 
in the only run of the game on a seventh-inning fielder's choice ground 
ball, was also on the winning team in Hunter's perfect game. On April 11, 
1990, Witt, pitching out of the bullpen, combined with starting pitcher 
Mark Langston to throw a no-hitter for the California Angels. Browning's 
perfect game came against the team that eventually won that year's World 
Series, the only time that has happened. A two-hour, twenty-seven-minute 
rain delay[27] caused the game to start at approximately 10 PM. Right fielder 
Paul O'Neill, who played for the winning side in this game, also played 
for the winning side in the perfect games of Wells and Cone. The following 
July 4, Browning came within an inning of becoming the first pitcher to 
throw two perfect games, retiring the first 24 batters in a game against 
the Phillies before surrendering a leadoff double in the ninth.[28] Martínez, 
born in Granada, Nicaragua, was the first major league pitcher born outside 
of the United States to throw a perfect game. Martínez reached only one 
three-ball count.[29] Opposing pitcher Mike Morgan was perfect through 
five full innings, the latest the opposing starter in a perfect game has 
remained perfect. Two days earlier, Expos pitcher Mark Gardner no-hit the 
Dodgers through nine innings but lost the no-hitter in the tenth, meaning 
the Expos narrowly missed throwing a no-hitter and a perfect game in the 
same series. Martínez's catcher, Ron Hassey, had also caught Len Barker's 
perfect game. This was the third perfect game pitched against the Brooklyn/Los 
Angeles Dodgers, joining those of Larsen and Browning; the only other teams 
to lose more than one perfect game are the Twins (Hunter and Wells) and 
the Rays (Buehrle, Hernandez and Braden). Rogers benefited from center 
fielder Rusty Greer's fantastic diving catch of a line drive hit by Rex 
Hudler, leading off the ninth inning.[30] Rogers' performance against the 
Angels came 10 seasons after Witt's perfect game against the Rangers. The 
Angels and Rangers are the only major league teams to record perfect games 
against each other. The home plate umpire was a minor league fill-in, Ed 
Bean, who was working his 29th Major League game and seventh behind the 
plate. Bean, who was substituting for 17-year veteran Ken Kaiser, worked 
only seven more MLB games following Rogers' performance. Wells attended 
the same high school as Don Larsen: Point Loma High School, San Diego, 
California. They also both enjoyed the night life. Casey Stengel once said 
of Larsen, "The only thing he fears is sleep." Wells has claimed to have 
been "half-drunk" and suffering from a "raging, skull-rattling hangover" 
during his perfect game.[31] Wells' perfect game comprised the core of 
a streak of 38 consecutive retired batters (May 12–23, 1998), an American 
League record he held until 2007. Cone's perfect game occurred on Yogi 
Berra Day. Don Larsen threw out the ceremonial first pitch to Berra, who 
had been his catcher during the 1956 World Series perfect game. As the 
game wore on, television cameras showed Larsen, the only perfect game pitcher 
to attend another perfect game. No Expo worked even a three-ball count.[32] 
Cone's perfect game took only 88 pitches [33] even though it was interrupted 
by a 33-minute rain delay and is the only one to date in regular-season 
interleague play. Following teammate Wells' perfect game the previous season, 
this also represents the only time two successive perfect games have been 
thrown by the same team. This was the third perfect game in Yankee history; 
the Indians (Joss and Barker), White Sox (Robertson, Buehrle, and Humber), 
A's (Hunter and Braden), and Phillies (Bunning and Halladay) are the other 
teams to have more than one perfect game. Johnson threw his perfect game 
at the age of 40 years, 256 days, becoming by more than three and a half 
years the oldest pitcher to achieve the feat. The former holder of the 
mark, Cy Young, threw his at the age of 37 years, 37 days. Johnson is also 
the tallest perfect game pitcher at 6' 10", surpassing Mike Witt by three 
inches. Of the 20 teams to have a perfect game thrown against them, the 
2004 Braves have the second-highest OBP (.343) and are tied for the second-highest 
winning percentage (.593).[34] In contrast, the Diamondbacks had by far 
the worst season winning percentage (.315) of any team to benefit from 
a perfect game.[35] Buehrle was assisted by a dramatic ninth-inning wall-climbing 
catch by center fielder DeWayne Wise to rob Gabe Kapler of a home run; 
Wise had just entered the game as a defensive replacement before Kapler's 
at-bat. This was the first major league perfect game in which the pitcher 
and catcher were battery-mates for the first time; Ramón Castro had been 
acquired by the White Sox less than two months before.[36] This was also 
the first perfect game to feature a grand slam, by Josh Fields in the bottom 
of the second inning. Umpire Eric Cooper, who called the game, had been 
behind the plate for Buehrle's previous no-hitter.[37] On July 28, Buehrle 
followed up with another 5 2/3 perfect innings to set the major league 
record for consecutive batters retired at 45 (this includes the final batter 
he faced in his appearance before the perfect game).[38] That record was 
broken by Yusmeiro Petit of the San Francisco Giants in 2014[39] Braden's 
perfect game, pitched on Mother's Day, was the first complete game of his 
career. Braden's mother, Jodie Atwood, was not in attendance because she 
died of cancer when Braden was in high school. His grandmother, Peggy Lindsey, 
did attend the game and celebrated on the field with Braden. It was the 
first time a perfect game had been pitched against the team with the best 
record in the majors at the time; coming into the contest, the Rays were 
22–8.[40] The 2010 Rays are tied for the second-highest winning percentage 
(.593) of any team to be on the receiving end of a perfect game.[41] MLB's 
previous perfect game had also been thrown against the Rays, making them 
the second team to have successive perfect games against them (the first 
was the Dodgers in 1988 and 1991).[42] This game came 290 days after Buehrle's, 
the shortest period between modern-day perfect games—a record which would 
last just three weeks until Halladay's. Halladay pitched the second perfect 
game of the 2010 season 20 days after Braden's, the shortest period between 
perfect games in the modern era.[43] Mark Buehrle's perfect game had been 
10 months earlier, marking the first time that three perfect games occurred 
within a one-year span. Seven batters reached three-ball counts against 
Halladay.[44] Halladay nearly pitched a second perfect game in the 2010 
NL Division Series against the Reds but gave up a walk to Jay Bruce. The 
hurler had to settle for a no-hitter and became the only perfect game pitcher 
to throw another no-hitter in the same season, and the fifth with two no-hitters. 
Halladay is the second pitcher to throw a perfect game and win the Cy Young 
Award in the same season; Sandy Koufax did so in 1965.[45] On April 21, 
2012, Philip Humber of the Chicago White Sox pitched the third perfect 
game in White Sox history. The final out of Humber's perfect game came 
after a full-count check-swing third strike to Brendan Ryan on a ball that 
catcher A. J. Pierzynski dropped. As Ryan disputed umpire Brian Runge's 
decision that he had swung, Pierzynski threw the ball to first base for 
the final out.[46] As with Braden, Humber's perfect game was the first 
complete game of his career.[47] Humber, who last pitched in Major League 
Baseball in 2013, has a lifetime record of 16-23, thus having the fewest 
career wins and lowest career winning percentage of any pitcher who has 
thrown a perfect game in the Major Leagues. The White Sox became the second 
franchise with three perfect games, joining the Yankees. On June 13, 2012, 
Matt Cain of the San Francisco Giants pitched the first perfect game in 
Giants franchise history, the second of 3 in 2012, and the 22nd in MLB 
history. Joaquín Árias threw out Jason Castro for the final out on a 1-2 
ground ball. Buster Posey was the catcher. Cain tallied 14 strikeouts, 
tying Sandy Koufax for the most strikeouts in a perfect game. Cain was 
aided by a running catch at the wall by Melky Cabrera in the 6th and a 
diving catch by Gregor Blanco in the 7th. The winning Giants scored 10 
runs, making this the highest scoring perfect game. On August 15, 2012, 
Félix Hernández of the Seattle Mariners threw the 23rd perfect game in 
MLB history (and the first in August) against the Tampa Bay Rays. This 
was the first perfect game in Mariners history, and the franchise's fourth 
no-hitter.[48] Hernandez's performance was highlighted by 12 strikeouts 
and a career-high 26 swinging-strikes. In an on-field interview immediately 
following the last out, Hernandez said he had started thinking about the 
possibility of a perfect game in the second inning. It was the third time 
in the last four seasons that Tampa Bay was the losing side of a perfect 
game. Four Rays—Evan Longoria, Carlos Peña, B.J. Upton and Ben Zobrist—joined 
Alfredo Griffin in having played in three perfect games for the losing 
team; all four players participated in Buehrle's and Braden's. Three perfect-game 
pitchers had RBIs in their games: Hunter (3), Bunning (2), and Young (1). 
Hunter had three hits; Richmond, Ward, Bunning, Martínez, and Cain each 
had one. Cain is the only pitcher to score a run during a perfect game 
(Gregor Blanco followed him in the order and hit a home run). Barker, Witt, 
Rogers, Wells, Cone, Buehrle, Braden, Humber, and Hernández did not bat 
in their perfect games, as the American League adopted the designated hitter 
rule in 1973. The latest the winning runs have been scored in a perfect 
game is the seventh inning—this occurred in the games of Hunter (bottom), 
Witt (top), and Martínez (top). Seven perfect-game pitchers have also thrown 
at least one additional no-hitter: Young, Joss, Bunning, Koufax, Johnson, 
Buehrle, and Halladay. Witt participated in a combined no-hitter. Koufax 
has the most total no-hitters of any perfect-game pitcher, with four. Richmond 
and Robertson were rookies, though each had made a single appearance in 
a previous season. Although by the latter part of the twentieth century, 
major league games were being played predominantly at night, six of the 
last ten perfect games, and four of the last six, have taken place in the 
daytime. Since 1973, nine perfect games have been thrown with the DH rule 
in effect (including one interleague game held at an American League park) 
and only five without it. Of the thirty franchises that currently make 
up Major League Baseball, seven have never as of the end of the 2015 season 
been involved in a perfect game (win or lose), including three of the "Original 
16" franchises (the Cardinals, Pirates and Orioles) and four of the fourteen 
teams that joined MLB in the expansion era (the Royals, Brewers, Padres 
and Rockies). The number of perfect games won and lost by other 23 extant 
franchises is as follows. There have been three instances in which a major 
league pitcher retired every player he faced over nine innings without 
allowing a baserunner, but, by the current definition, is not credited 
with a perfect game, either because there was already a baserunner when 
he took the mound, or because the game went into extra innings and an opposing 
player eventually reached base: Four other games in which one team failed 
to reach base are not official perfect games because they were called off 
before nine innings were played:[54] On March 14, 2000, in a spring training 
game—by definition unofficial—the Red Sox used six pitchers to retire all 
27 Toronto Blue Jays batters in a 5–0 victory. The starting pitcher for 
the Red Sox was Pedro Martínez (see above).[58] On thirteen occasions in 
Major League Baseball history, a perfect game has been spoiled when the 
batter representing what would have been the third and final out in the 
ninth inning reached base. Unless otherwise noted, the pitcher in question 
finished and won the game without allowing any more baserunners:[59] There 
have been fifteen occasions in Major League Baseball history when a pitcher—or, 
in one case, multiple pitchers—recorded at least 27 consecutive outs after 
one or more runners reached base. In four instances, the game went into 
extra innings and the pitcher(s) recorded more than 27 consecutive outs: 
In the eleven other instances, the leadoff batter (or batters) reached 
base in the first inning, followed by 27 consecutive batters (or batters 
and baserunners) being retired through the end of a nine-inning game.[80] 
In one case, the leadoff baserunner was retired, meaning the pitcher faced 
the minimum: The remaining instances in which a pitcher recorded 27 consecutive 
outs in a game, noting how the opponent's leadoff batter (or batters) reached 
base: On ten occasions in Major League Baseball history, a pitcher recorded 
27 outs without surrendering a hit, walk, or having a batter reach on a 
hit-by-pitch, but lost a perfect game because a baserunner reached through 
a fielding error: Perfect games ruined by errors committed by the pitcher: 
Perfect games ruined by errors committed by other players: Italics denotes post-season perfect game 
