This is a list of state parks in the U.S. state of New York. State park 
golf courses and seasonal hunting areas also are included. State parks 
in New York are managed by the New York State Office of Parks, Recreation 
and Historic Preservation (NYS OPRHP), with the exception of Adirondack 
Park and Catskill Park, which are managed as Forest Preserve land by the 
New York State Department of Environmental Conservation. The NYS OPRHP 
offers an Empire Passport, a season pass that provides unlimited day use 
vehicle entry to most of New York's state parks and recreational facilities.[2] 
The two largest parks in New York State are the Adirondack Park at six million 
acres (24,000 km2; 9,400 sq mi) and the Catskill Park at 700,000 acres 
(2,800 km2; 1,100 sq mi). Both are managed by the New York State Department 
of Environmental Conservation; the Adirondack Park is also managed by the 
Adirondack Park Agency. Together, they comprise the New York Forest Preserve, 
properties that must be kept "forever wild" by Article 14 of the Constitution 
of the State of New York. Lands designated as "state parks" in New York 
are managed under the authority of the New York State Office of Parks, 
Recreation and Historic Preservation (NYS OPRHP)[3] to provide public space 
for outdoor recreation while conserving natural and cultural resources.[4] 
The following two sortable tables list current and former New York state 
parks, respectively. The first lists current state parks, as of 2015. It 
includes all parks owned or managed by the NYS OPRHP. Some are managed 
primarily or in part by agencies other than the NYS OPRHP through lease 
or partnership agreements; these are listed if the NYS OPRHP maintains 
ownership of the park.[3] The second table lists former New York state 
parks, including those that have been transferred to other agencies in 
terms of both management and ownership. New York state parks and historic 
sites which provide seasonal hunting include the following. Many of these 
