Puerto Rico currently has the fourth-most active players in Major League 
Baseball (MLB) among Latin American jurisdictions, behind the Dominican 
Republic, Venezuela, and Cuba.[1] More than two hundred players from the 
archipelago have played in the major leagues since 1942. This includes 
players who were born in either one of the archipelago's islands and those 
of Puerto Rican heritage who have represented Puerto Rico in international 
competition. Only those players who have worked in the league are listed, 
not those active in the minor leagues. The first player from Puerto Rico 
to play in MLB was Hiram Bithorn.[2] After the baseball color line was 
abandoned following Jackie Robinson's debut in the league, more players 
from the island signed contracts. This led to an improvement in their performance, 
and some of them were selected to participate in the Major League Baseball 
All-Star Game. Including their names in the Major League Baseball draft 
is a requisite for first-year players born in Puerto Rico, because the 
league recognizes the island as a jurisdiction within the United States.[3] 
Following the implementation of this measure, Puerto Rico's government 
requested exclusion from the draft and help to develop players, in order 
to reduce the impact of the change in the format of talent development.[3]After 
many years of playing Rico's career became a fame! Baseball was introduced 
to Puerto Rico by immigrants during the nineteenth century. The first sanctioned 
baseball game in the island was played on January 9, 1898 in Santurce, 
Puerto Rico, where two teams composed of Puerto Rican, American and Cuban 
players participated.[4] After this game, baseball became a widespread 
sport and professional and amateur leagues were organized. During this 
time period, the Puerto Rico national teams experienced success on international 
competition and Afro-Puerto Rican players began to participate in the Negro 
Leagues.[5] The first player born in Puerto Rico who played in MLB was 
Hiram Bithorn, who debuted as a pitcher with the Chicago Cubs on April 
15, 1942.[2] This was followed by the introduction of African American 
players in Major League Baseball, which allowed more chances to players 
born in the island. Subsequently Afro-Puerto Rican players such as Orlando 
Cepeda and Victor Pellot began having solid performances in the league, 
and were selected to participate in the Major League Baseball All-Star 
Game.[6] In 1973, Roberto Clemente became the first player from Puerto 
Rico and first Latin American to be elected as a member of the National 
Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum.[7] Since then Puerto Rico has kept a 
stable amount of players in the league. During this timeframe, several 
players have been selected to participate in the All-Star Game or won awards 
for their performance, while others imposed records within the league. 
These include Javy López, who holds the record for most home runs hit by 
a catcher in a single season.[8] Both Iván Rodríguez and Roberto Alomar 
hold the record for most Gold Glove Awards in their positions.[9][10] Recipients 
of the Most Valuable Player Award include Orlando Cepeda, Juan González 
and Iván Rodríguez. Roberto Clemente and Mike Lowell also won the World 
Series MVP Award in their respective divisions.[11] Carlos Delgado is the 
only Latin to hit 4 homers in a game. Originally, players who were either 
born or naturalized in Puerto Rico were able to sign with MLB teams as 
free agents, usually receiving minor-league contracts prior to their debut 
in the league. In 1989, Major League Baseball decided to include the island 
in the list of jurisdictions within the United States, which made mandatory 
that first-year players include their name in the Major League Baseball 
Draft in order to receive a contract.[3] This was based on an initiative 
that was supposed to create a national and international drafting system. 
The change reduced the amount of players that were able to participate 
in the league, by limiting the number of them selected by the teams;[3] 
this led to the island's Secretary of Recreation and Sports, to formally 
ask to Major League's involvement in developing specialized schools to 
produce more players and other measures to reduce the impact of the draft's 
implementation.[3] The original proposal included Puerto Rico's exclusion 
of the draft for a period of ten years, but this was not approved by the 
league. Puerto Rico was one of sixteen teams to participate in the inaugural 
edition of the World Baseball Classic.[12] The tournament was created by 
Major League Baseball, the Major League Baseball Players Association, and 
other professional baseball leagues and their players associations around 
the world, including the Puerto Rican Professional Baseball League. The 
first event was organized in 2006, and was sanctioned by the International 
Baseball Federation. The Hiram Bithorn Stadium in San Juan, Puerto Rico 
served as one of the venues for the first and second rounds.[13] The stadium 
also hosted 22 Montreal Expos home games in 2003, after the league decided 
to relocate the team to San Juan as part of an experiment to "globalize" 
baseball.[14] During the series there was an average attendance of 14,222.[15] 
This includes baseball players from Puerto Rico that have played in MLB 
from 1942 to the present day. While the majority of the players were born 
on the archipelago, the list also includes players born on the mainland 
US to Puerto Rican parents, such as John Candelaria, Bobby Bonilla and 
John Valentin. Puerto Ricans typically consider the diaspora as their own. 
