The Minnesota Twins are a Major League Baseball (MLB) franchise based in 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. They play in the American League Central division. 
They formerly played in Washington, D.C. as the Washington Senators before 
moving to Minnesota after the 1960 season. The first game of the new baseball 
season for a team is played on Opening Day, and being named the Opening 
Day starter is an honor, which is often given to the player who is expected 
to lead the pitching staff that season,[1] though there are various strategic 
reasons why a team's best pitcher might not start on Opening Day.[2] The 
Twins have used 26 different Opening Day starting pitchers in their 51 seasons 
in Minnesota. Starters have a combined Opening Day record of 14 wins, 25 losses 
and 12 no decisions. No decisions are only awarded to the starting pitcher 
if the game is won or lost after the starting pitcher has left the game.[3][4][5] 
Brad Radke holds the Minnesota Twins record for most Opening Day starts 
with nine. He has a record in Opening Day starts for the Twins of four wins 
and two losses (4–2) with three no decisions. Bert Blyleven had six Opening 
Day starts for the Twins and Frank Viola had four.[3] Radke has the record 
for most wins in Minnesota Twins Opening Day starts with four. Liván Hernández, 
Mudcat Grant, and Dean Chance share the best winning percentage in Opening 
Day starts with one win and no losses (1–0) each. Kevin Tapani has the 
worst winning percentage, losing both Opening Day starts he made for the 
Twins (0–2).[3] Overall, Minnesota Twins Opening Day starting pitchers 
have a record of 4–7 with three no decisions at Metropolitan Stadium and 
a 1–4 record with one no decision at the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome. 
Their first home opener in their current ballpark of Target Field was in 
2013. This gives their Opening Day starting pitchers' combined home record 
5–11 with four no no decisions. Their away record is 9–14 with eight no 
decisions. The Twins went on to play in the World Series in 1965, 1987, 
and 1991, winning in 1987 and 1991. The Twins lost both Opening Day games 
