The Detroit Tigers are a Major League Baseball franchise based in Detroit, 
Michigan. They play in the American League Central division. Pitchers for 
the Tigers have thrown seven no-hitters in franchise history.[1] A no-hitter 
is officially recognized by Major League Baseball only "when a pitcher 
(or pitchers) allows no hits during the entire course of a game, which 
consists of at least nine innings. In a no-hit game, a batter may reach 
base via a walk, an error, a hit by pitch, a passed ball or wild pitch 
on strike three, or catcher's interference."[2] No-hitters of less than 
nine complete innings were previously recognized by the league as official; 
however, several rule alterations in 1991 changed the rule to its current 
form.[3] A no-hitter is common enough that only one team in Major League 
Baseball has never had a pitcher accomplish the feat.[a] A perfect game, 
a special subcategory of no-hitter, has yet to be thrown in Tigers history. 
As defined by Major League Baseball, "in a perfect game, no batter reaches 
any base during the course of the game."[2] This feat came closest on June 
2, 2010 when Armando Galarraga lost his perfect game bid against the Cleveland 
Indians with two outs in the ninth due to the incorrect call made by a 
first base umpire Jim Joyce.[4] But there are two other times when the 
Tigers perfect game bids were lost with two outs in the ninth, one in 1932 
and the other in 1983. The Tigers lead all franchises with three perfect 
game bids lost with two outs in the ninth. George Mullin threw the first 
no-hitter in Tigers history on July 4, 1912; the most recent no-hitter 
was thrown by Justin Verlander on May 7, 2011.[4] All seven Tigers no-hitters 
were thrown by right-handers. Virgil Trucks and Verlander are the only 
pitchers in Tigers history to throw more than one no-hitter. Three no-hitters 
were thrown at home and four on the road. They threw one in April, two 
in May, one in June, two in July, and one in August. The longest interval 
between no-hitters was between the games pitched by Mullin and Trucks, 
encompassing 39 years, 10 months, and 11 days from July 4, 1912 till May 
15, 1952. Conversely, the shortest interval between no-hitters was between 
the both games pitched by Trucks, encompassing merely 3 months and 10 days 
from May 15, 1952 till August 25, 1952.[4] The opponents no-hit by the 
Tigers are St. Louis Browns (now Baltimore Orioles), Washington Senators 
(now Minnesota Twins), New York Yankees, Boston Red Sox, Chicago White 
Sox, Milwaukee Brewers and Toronto Blue Jays. None of those no-hitters 
which the team allowed at least a run. The most baserunners allowed in 
a no-hitter were by Trucks (his first no-hitter in 1952) and Morris (in 
1984), who each allowed six. Of the seven no-hitters, two have been won 
by a score of 1–0 and two by the score of 4–0, more common than any other 
results. The largest margin of victory in a no-hitter was a 9–0 win by 
Verlander in 2011. The smallest margin of victory was two 1–0 wins by Trucks 
both in 1952. The umpire is also an integral part of any no-hitter. The 
task of the umpire in a baseball game is to make any decision "which involves 
judgment, such as, but not limited to, whether a batted ball is fair or 
foul, whether a pitch is a strike or a ball, or whether a runner is safe 
or out… [the umpire's judgment on such matters] is final."[5] Part of the 
duties of the umpire making calls at home plate includes defining the strike 
zone, which is defined as the "area over home plate the upper limit of 
which is a horizontal line at the midpoint between the top of the shoulders 
and the top of the uniform pants, and the lower level is a line at the 
hollow beneath the kneecap."[5] These calls define every baseball game 
and are therefore integral to the completion of any no-hitter.[6] A different 
umpire presided over each of the Tigers' seven no-hitters. The manager 
is another integral part of any no-hitter. The tasks of the manager include 
determining the starting rotation as well as batting order and defensive 
lineup every game. Managers choosing the right pitcher and right defensive 
lineup at a right game at a right place at a right time would lead to a 
no-hitter.[citation needed] Jim Leyland is the only Tigers manager to skipper 
