The Houston Astros (formerly known as the Houston Colt .45s from 1962–64) 
are a Major League Baseball franchise based in Houston, Texas. Formed in 
1962, they play in the American League West division (formerly in the National 
League Central division until 2012). Pitchers for the Astros have thrown 
eleven no-hitters in franchise history. A no-hitter is officially recognized 
by Major League Baseball only “when a pitcher (or pitchers) retires each 
batter on the opposing team during the entire course of a game, which consists 
of at least nine innings”.[1] No-hitters of less than nine complete innings 
were previously recognized by the league as official; however, several 
rule alterations in 1991 changed the rule to its current form.[2] A no-hitter 
is rare enough that one team in Major League Baseball has never had a pitcher 
accomplish the feat.[a] No perfect games, a special subcategory of no-hitter, 
have been thrown in Astros history.[3] As defined by Major League Baseball, 
“in a perfect game, no batter reaches any base during the course of the 
game.”[1] Don Nottebart threw the first no-hitter in Astros history on 
May 17, 1963; the most recent no-hitter was thrown by Mike Fiers on August 
21, 2015.[3] No left-handed starting pitchers have thrown no-hitters in 
franchise history. The longest interval between no-hitters was between 
a combined no-hitter led by Roy Oswalt and that thrown by Fiers, encompassing 
12 years, 2 months and 10 days from June 11, 2003 to August 21, 2015. Conversely, 
the shortest interval between no-hitters was between the games pitched 
by Nottebart and Ken Johnson, encompassing 11 months and 6 days from May 
17, 1963 to April 23, 1964.[3] They no-hit the Cincinnati Reds and the 
Los Angeles Dodgers the most, which occurred twice. There are three no-hitters 
in which the team allowed at least a run, by Nottebart in 1963, Johnson 
in 1964 (which was a 9-inning home loss), and Kile in 1993. The most baserunners 
allowed in a no-hitter was by Wilson (in 1969), who allowed eight. Nine 
no-hitters were thrown at home, and two on the road. The Astros have thrown 
two no-hitters in April, two in May, two in June, one in July, one in August, 
and three in September. Of the eleven no-hitters, two have been won by 
a score of 2–0, and two others by the score of 6–0, more common than any 
other result. The largest margin of victory in a no-hitter was an 8–0 combined 
effort led by Oswalt in 2003. The smallest margin of victory was 2–0 wins 
by Wilson in 1967 and Mike Scott in 1993. The umpire is also an integral 
part of any no-hitter. The task of the umpire in a baseball game is to 
make any decision “which involves judgment, such as, but not limited to, 
whether a batted ball is fair or foul, whether a pitch is a strike or a 
ball, or whether a runner is safe or out… [the umpire’s judgment on such 
matters] is final.”[4] Part of the duties of the umpire making calls at 
home plate includes defining the strike zone, which "is defined as that 
area over homeplate (sic) the upper limit of which is a horizontal line 
at the midpoint between the top of the shoulders and the top of the uniform 
pants, and the lower level is a line at the hollow beneath the kneecap."[4] 
These calls define every baseball game and are therefore integral to the 
completion of any no-hitter.[5] A different umpire presided over each of 
the franchise’s eleven no-hitters. The manager is another integral part 
of any no-hitter. The tasks of the manager include determining the starting 
rotation as well as batting order and defensive lineup every game. Seven 
different managers have involved in the franchise’s eleven no-hitters. 
