The World Series, the modern championship series of Major League Baseball, 
began in 1903, and was established as an annual event in 1905. Before the 
formation of the American Association (AA), there were no playoff rounds—all 
championships went to the team with the best record at the end of the season. 
In the initial season of the National League (NL) in 1876, there was controversy 
as to which team was the champion: the Chicago White Stockings, who had 
the best overall record (52–14), or the St. Louis Brown Stockings (45–19), 
who were the only team to have a winning record against every other franchise 
in the league. The teams agreed to play a five-game "Championship of the 
West" series, won by St. Louis, 4 games to 1. Beginning in 1884, the championship 
series between the National League and the American Association were promoted 
and referred to as the "World's Championship Series" (WCS), or "World's 
Series" for short; however, they are not officially recognized by Major 
League Baseball as part of World Series history.[1] Though early publications, 
such as Ernest Lanigan's Baseball Cyclopedia and Turkin and Thompson's 
Encyclopedia of Baseball, listed the 19th-century games on an equal basis 
with those of the 20th century, Sporting News publications about the World 
Series, which began in the 1920s, ignored the 19th-century games, as did 
most publications about the Series after 1960. Major League Baseball, in 
general, regards 19th-century events as a prologue to the modern era of 
baseball, which is defined by the emergence of the two present major leagues. 
In the second year of the WCS, a dispute in the 1885 series concerned Game 
2, which was forfeited by the St. Louis Browns when they pulled their team 
off the field protesting an umpiring decision. The managers, Cap Anson 
and Charles Comiskey, initially agreed to disregard the game. When St. 
Louis won the final game and an apparent 3–2 series championship, Chicago 
owner Albert Spalding overruled his manager and declared that he wanted 
the forfeit counted. The result of a tied WCS was that neither team got 
the prize money that had been posted by the owners before the series (and 
was returned to them after they both agreed it was a tie). Following the 
collapse of the AA in 1891, four of its clubs were admitted to the National 
League. The league championship was awarded in 1892 by a playoff between 
half-season champions. This scheme was abandoned after one season. Beginning 
in 1893—and continuing until divisional play was introduced in 1969—the 
pennant was awarded to the first-place club in the standings at the end 
of the season. For four seasons, the league champions played the runners-up 
in the postseason championship series called the Temple Cup. A second attempt 
at this format was the Chronicle-Telegraph Cup series in 1900. The only 
championship teams to last beyond 1876 (when the National League was founded) 
were the Chicago White Stockings (now the Cubs, NL) and the Boston Red 
Stockings (now the Atlanta Braves, NL). The Philadelphia Athletics (1860–76) 
were not the same team as either the Philadelphia Athletics (American Association) 
of 1882–1890, or the former Philadelphia Athletics (American League) who 
