Writers of Sporting News described hitting four home runs in a single Major 
League Baseball (MLB) game as "baseball's greatest single-game accomplishment".[1] 
16 players have accomplished the feat to date, the most recent being Josh 
Hamilton of the Texas Rangers on May 8, 2012. No player has done this more 
than once in his career and no player has ever hit more than four in a 
game. Bobby Lowe was the first to hit four home runs in a single game, 
doing so on May 30, 1894. Fans were reportedly so excited that they threw 
$160 in silver coins ($4,400 today) onto the field after his fourth home 
run.[1][2][3] These games have resulted in other MLB single-game records 
due to the extreme offensive performance. Mark Whiten, for example, tied 
Jim Bottomley for the most runs batted in in a single game with 12 in his 
four-homer game.[4] Shawn Green hit a double and a single along with his 
four home runs for 19 total bases, an MLB record. It surpassed Joe Adcock's 
mark of 18, which also came from a four-homer game.[5][6] Chuck Klein, 
Pat Seerey, and Mike Schmidt each hit their four in a game that went into 
extra innings. Four home runs generate significant offense which generally 
allows a team to win, although Ed Delahanty's and Bob Horner's teams lost 
their respective milestone games. Carlos Delgado was the only one who hit 
his four home runs in a game in which he made only four plate appearances.[7] 
Warren Spahn pitched the ball which Gil Hodges hit for the first of his 
four, the only Hall of Fame pitcher faced during a four-home-run game.[1] 
Hodges and Adcock are the only players to hit home runs against four different 
pitchers in one game. Lowe and Delahanty, on the other hand, are the only 
players to hit four home runs in one game against just one pitcher: Ice 
Box Chamberlain and Adonis Terry respectively. Mike Cameron hit his four 
on May 2, 2002, and Green matched the total 21 days later on May 23, 2002, 
the shortest span between such games. Lowe and Seerey each hit fewer than 
100 home runs over the length of their career while Willie Mays, with 660, 
hit more than any other player in this group. Both Mays and Schmidt are 
also members of the 500 home run club. Of the 11 players eligible for the 
Hall of Fame who have hit four home runs in a game, five have been elected. 
Players are eligible for the Hall of Fame if they have played in at least 
10 major league seasons, and have either been retired for five seasons 
or deceased for at least six months.[8] These requirements leave four players 
ineligible who are living and have played in the past five seasons, and 
one (Seerey) who did not play 10 seasons in MLB. No player has ever hit 
