The Toronto Blue Jays are members of the American League (AL) East Division 
in Major League Baseball (MLB). There have been 14 different managers of 
the Blue Jays, the only Canadian baseball franchise in Major League Baseball. 
In baseball, the head coach of a team is called the manager (or more formally, 
the field manager). They are the only team outside the United States to 
win a World Series, and the first team to win a World Series in Canada.[1] 
Cito Gaston has both managed and won the most games of any Blue Jays manager, 
with 1,731 games and 894 wins. He is followed by John Gibbons in both categories, 
with 1,258 games and 644 wins, who surpassed Bobby Cox's marks during his 
second stint as manager. Gaston is the only Blue Jays manager to win a 
World Series in 1992 and 1993, the fourth African-American manager in MLB 
history, and was the first African-American manager to win a World Series.[2][3] 
Cox is the only Blue Jays manager to be awarded the AL Manager of the Year 
Award in 1985. Mel Queen has the best winning percentage by winning 80 
percent of his 5 games coached. The first manager of the Blue Jays was 
Roy Hartsfield. While his tenure was marked by conflict between players 
and last place finishes, Hartsfield was supported by general manager Pat 
Gillick as they worked on the same long term management strategy: developing 
young players around which to build a team.[4] Following the 1979 season, 
the Blue Jays opted not to renew his contract but offered him a position 
within the organization, which he declined.[5] Bobby Mattick served as 
manager on subsequent one-year contracts until Bobby Cox became available.[6] 
As Mattick accepted an executive position in the Blue Jays organization, 
Cox signed a one-year contract,[7] which was extended until to the 1985 
season as he led the team out of last place for the first time, and into 
the playoffs in 1985. Shortly after Cox unexpectedly left the Blue Jays 
organization for the general manager position with the Atlanta Braves, 
third base coach Jimy Williams took over as manager.[8][9] Following late-season 
collapses in 1987 and 1988, and a poor start to the 1989 season, Williams 
was fired and hitting coach Cito Gaston took over.[10] Gaston managed the 
team for nine seasons, including two World Series wins, though batting 
coach Gene Tenace did substitute for him for several weeks in 1991 when 
Gaston was hospitalized with back pains.[11] In 1997, with the team in 
last place, Gaston was fired by general manager Gord Ash with 5 games remaining; 
pitching coach Mel Queen finished the season as manager.[12] Ash, seeking 
a more aggressive management style, hired Tim Johnson for his breadth of 
experience and communication skills.[13] Following an admission to lying 
about aspects of his military experience, a tactic he used to motivate 
players,[14] he was fired during spring training in 1999 and Jim Fregosi 
was signed to a two-year contract. When Rogers Communications acquired 
the Blue Jays organization, among other management changes, Fregosi was 
replaced with Buck Martinez.[15] In June 2002, as the team was struggling, 
new general manager J. P. Ricciardi fired Martinez and replaced him with 
third base coach Carlos Tosca.[16] Tosca, and his successor John Gibbons, 
each managed the team for several seasons but both were fired mid-season 
as the team struggled: Tosca in August 2004 replaced by first base coach 
Gibbons, and Gibbons in June 2008 replaced by former manager Gaston. Following 
Gaston's retirement at the end of the 2010 season, former Boston Red Sox 
pitching coach, John Farrell was introduced as the new manager of the Toronto 
Blue Jays.[17] Note: Statistics are correct as of the end of the 2016 Major 
