One of the primary reasons why Los Angeles was awarded an American League 
expansion franchise for the 1961 season was because actor/singer turned 
broadcast mogul Gene Autry wanted to secure radio broadcast rights for 
the newly planned Los Angeles American League franchise. His KMPC (710 
AM, now KSPN) was the radio home of the Los Angeles Dodgers, from the time 
they arrived from Brooklyn, New York in time for the 1958 baseball season, 
and actually came away from the 1960 Winter Meetings with his own baseball 
team. Naturally, KMPC became the longtime radio outlet for Angels games 
throughout Southern California, although there was a period from 1997 that 
KRLA/1110 and 1998 to 2002 that KLAC (570 AM) became the team's flagship 
radio home. However, the Angels returned to their ancestral radio home 
at KSPN 710 AM, now since rebranded 710 ESPN, Los Angeles's ESPN Radio-operated 
outlet from the 2003 through 2007 seasons. In 2006 team owner Arte Moreno 
purchased his own radio station, KMXE (830 AM), an Orange County, California-licensed 
Spanish-language formatted station. By mid-2006, 830 AM's programming was 
mostly in English (the principal exception being Angels games in Spanish), 
and the station's call sign was changed to KLAA. In October 2007, the Angels 
announced that KWKW "ESPN Deportes 1330" would carry games in Spanish, 
and AM 830 will carry Angels games in English, although games that conflict 
with Anaheim Ducks games will be transferred to another station.[1] In 
time for the 2008 baseball season AM 830 became the English-language outlet 
for Angels games, when their contract with KSPN expired. In 2009, former 
Dodger radio flagship KFWB joined the Angels radio network, serving as 
a co-flagship of sorts alongside KLAA, carrying Monday through Friday games. 
It provided fans who live in certain parts of the Los Angeles market with 
a secondary outlet to listen to games. In 2010, KSPN-AM AM 710 simulcast 
at least 60 games with KLAA to reach areas of the northwest area of the 
Los Angeles radio market. The deal returns the Angels to their old radio 
station from 2007. For 2011 KSPN will simulcast with KLAA for 25-30 weekend 
games.[2] On May 15, 2012, the Angels signed a radio rights deal with syndicator 
Compass Media to distribute 25 games to a nationwide audience, in a game-of-the-week 
format.[3] These games would be produced separately from the KLAA broadcasts, 
and will feature veteran play-by-play men Chris Carrino and Steve Quis, 
with former New York Mets general manager and current SiriusXM sports talk 
show host Steve Phillips and former MLB player Darryl Hamilton as color 
commentators.[4] Many of the games, if not all, will air on such stations 
as WFAN New York City (radio flagship of the Mets), WTEM Washington, D.C. 
(a Baltimore Orioles affiliate), WQXI Atlanta, WYGM Orlando, and KFNC Houston. 
On the television side, the then-KHJ-TV (Channel 9) was the team's original 
home, until the start of the 1964 season, when Autry moved the Angels to 
his then-newly purchased KTLA (Channel 5). KTLA remained the Angels' home 
for 32 seasons (while also carrying Dodgers games from 1993 to 2001). The 
team returned to Channel 9, by this time renamed KCAL-TV, because The Walt 
Disney Company bought a stake of the team and eventually became the full 
owner after Gene Autry's death in 1998. At the time the broadcast rights 
were secured before the 1996 season, Disney had owned KCAL-TV, until they 
were forced to sell the station when it bought ABC. Due to FCC regulations 
at the time, Disney could not own two television stations in the same city, 
as ABC owns KABC-TV. KCAL-TV remained the home of Angels baseball for 10 
seasons, until the 2005 season. The station began broadcasting Dodgers 
games, starting in the 2006 season. When Moreno took over as owner, starting 
in the 2004 season, he made sure more games were available for fans. Most 
Angels fans were accustomed to seeing probably more than 100 games annually, 
but the Angels televised more than 140 games, the most in franchise history. 
In addition to the 50 telecasts each on KCAL-TV and FSN West, the remaining 
telecasts were spread between UHF outlets KPXN-TV (Channel 30, a Pax/i 
O&O) and the hometown-based independent station KDOC-TV (Channel 56). In 
2005, just KCAL-TV and FSN West combined to televise about 140 games. On 
April 3, 2006, the Angels and its cable broadcaster partner, Fox Sports 
West, finalized a 10-year, $500 million deal. This deal voids the previous 
one in which Fox Sports West would only televise a minimum of 50 games 
annually until 2008. In this current deal, Fox Sports West would own the 
rights to 150 locally televised games annually, with 100 airing on West, 
while its sister over-the-air station, KCOP-TV (Channel 13) will televise 
50 contests. The remaining games would either air exclusively on ESPN's 
Sunday Night Baseball or on Fox Television's Saturday Baseball Game of 
the Week package. In 2009, Fox Sports West began broadcasting 25 additional 
games to its schedule, subtracting those from the KCOP package, bringing 
their total to 125 games. KCOP-TV's current schedule of 25 games will mostly 
consist of Sunday afternoon contests, and selected Saturday night games. 
As with any sports team, the Angels have employed a number of radio and 
television broadcasters over the years. Among the many notable voices to 
call games for the team have been nationally-recognized sportscasters Dick 
Enberg and Joe Garagiola, late Seattle Mariners announcer Dave Niehaus, 
late Hall of Fame pitcher Don Drysdale, Hall of Fame outfielder Reggie 
Jackson, current Detroit Tigers TV voice Mario Impemba, current Arizona 
Diamondbacks TV announcer Daron Sutton (son of Hall of Famer Don Sutton), 
and Hall of Fame manager Sparky Anderson. Enberg is the broadcaster most 
associated with the Angels, famous for his pet phrases "Oh, my!" and "And 
the halo shines tonight!". He used both of these phrases during the World 
Series' victory celebration of the Angels in 2002 while addressing the 
crowd. Other Angels announcers have included Bob Starr, Paul Olden, Larry 
Kahn and Al Conin. Starr and Olden, along with Enberg and Steve Physioc, 
were also Los Angeles Rams football announcers concurrent with their Angels 
duties; in fact, Physioc was the last radio play-by-play man of the Rams 
in their final season in Southern California (1994). Al Conin broadcast 
during the 1986 ALCS pennant race against the Red Sox. His broadcasting 
style was very similar to that of Dodgers' Hall of Famer Vin Scully. Longtime 
San Diego Padres and New York Yankees legend Jerry Coleman had a brief 
stint with the Angels in the early-1970s before joining the Padres. A shake-up 
in the Angels’ broadcast team for the 2010 season was announced in November 
2009. Rory Markas and Mark Gubicza were designated to take over the TV 
broadcasts in 2010, with Terry Smith and José Mota on radio. The contracts 
of Steve Physioc and former Major League player Rex Hudler were not renewed 
after 14 and 11 years' service, respectively.[5] Markas died on January 
4, 2010 of an apparent heart attack at his home in Palmdale, California.[6] 
The 2009 lineup of Angels broadcasters had been[7] Physioc (TV and radio 
play-by-play), Rex Hudler (TV and radio analyst), Gubicza (TV analyst), 
José Mota (lead analyst on the Spanish radio broadcasts), Markas (radio 
and TV play-by-play), and Smith (radio play-by-play). During the 2008 Major 
League Baseball season,[8] Markas worked 75 games on television with Gubicza 
as analyst; Physioc and Hudler worked the remaining games on TV, but moved 
to the radio side whenever Markas and Gubicza worked on TV. Markas continued 
as the lead radio play-by-play announcer for the games Physioc and Hudler 
did for TV. Terry Smith continued his role as the #2 radio play-by-play 
man, while José Mota returned to his role as in-game reporter on TV and 
Spanish radio analyst. In 2007, Mota and Fox Sports West/Prime Ticket analyst 
Gubicza had worked 50 telecasts (mostly road) for FSN West and KCOP, while 
Physioc and Hudler continued as the lead TV broadcast team for the Angels, 
working the remaining 100 local broadcasts. Veteran Spanish sportscaster 
Amaury Pi-Gonzalez joined the team for Spanish radio play-by-play for the 
2007 season, replacing Ivan Lara. Markas and Gubicza had previously worked 
a three-game series for FSN West between the Angels and Blue Jays at Rogers 
Centre in Toronto, on August 13–15, 2007. Terry Smith, who handles mostly 
the middle innings on radio, has been referred to by some as this generation's 
Harry Kalas because Smith often uses Kalas' famous phrases as "that ball 
is out-ta here" on an Angels home run, or "struck him out" when the Angels 
strike out an opposing batter. Markas, who used his famous phrase Just 
another Halo victory! after Angel wins, was also a broadcaster for the 
