History People Overview Grounds Teams The St. Louis Cardinals, based in 
St. Louis, Missouri, are a professional baseball franchise that compete 
in the National League of Major League Baseball (MLB). The club employs 
coaches who support – and report directly to – the manager. Coaches for 
various aspects of the game, including pitching, hitting, baserunning and 
fielding, give instruction to players to assist them in exercising the 
major disciplines that must be successfully executed to compete at the 
highest level. These specialized roles are a relatively new development, 
as coaches initially did not have specific roles and instead had titles 
such as "first assistant", "second assistant", etc. St. Louis Cardinals 
coaches have played an important role in the team's eleven World Series 
titles. Many are retired players who at one time played for the team. Coaching 
is often part of the path for Major League managerial hopefuls, as a coach's 
previous experiences typically include managing and/or coaching at the 
minor league level. Charley O'Leary and Heinie Peitz, both former Cardinals 
players, became the first coaches the Cardinals employed as positions separate 
from the manager in 1913. The longest-tenured coach in Cardinals' franchise 
history is Red Schoendienst, who has filled a variety of roles for the 
St. Louis Cardinals. First, he played 15 seasons as a second baseman for 
the Cardinals before becoming an on-field coach in 1962 in his penultimate 
season as an active player. He continued to coach through 1964, and the 
next season, became the Cardinals' manager. Returning as an on-field coach 
for the Cardinals in 1979, Schoendienst remained in that capacity until 
1995. Since 1996, he has served as a special assistant to the general manager 
as a coaching advisor. In all, Schoendienst has coached for St. Louis for 
38 total seasons.[1] He has also worn a St. Louis Major League uniform 
in eight different decades, won four World Series titles as part of on-field 
personnel and two more World Series titles since moving into his role as 
an advisor.[2][3] The current longest-tenured coach through 2015 is third-base 
coach José Oquendo, who has been coaching for the Cardinals since 1999. 
The latest addition is assistant hitting coach Bill Mueller, who was hired 
before the 2015 season. The longest-tenured on-field coach in franchise 
history is Buzzy Wares; he is also the only coach for the Cardinals with 
a consecutive on-field season streak of 20 or more seasons with 23. Schoendienst 
is the only other with 20 or more total seasons; he also had a streak of 
17 consecutive seasons. Dave Duncan and Dave McKay are both tied for third 
with 16 total seasons and both with a streak of 16 consecutive seasons. 
Jose Oquendo is also tied with Duncan and McKay with 16 years during the 
2015 season as it marks his 16 consecutive season as an on field coach. 
Others with ten or more seasons include Mike González, Johnny Lewis, Marty 
Mason, Gaylen Pitts and Dave Ricketts. Dal Maxvill is the only former Cardinals 
coach to have become a general manager for the Cardinals. Ray Blades, Ken 
Boyer, González, Johnny Keane, Jack Krol, Marty Marion, Bill McKechnie, 
Schoendienst and Harry Walker have all also managed the Cardinals. Cardinals 
coaches who have been elected to the National Baseball Hall of Fame and 
