This list displays a chronology of the annual top ten leaders in career 
base hits in Major League Baseball (MLB) from 1876 through 2015. The table 
assists in identifying the most significant players in each era, and helps 
to understand the importance of many stars of the past. Before Pete Rose 
broke Ty Cobb's record for career hits, for example, Tris Speaker, Stan 
Musial and Hank Aaron had each reached the number two spot in succession. 
It is also quite valuable to identify the leaders during the 19th century, 
when seasons were shorter (usually from 60 to 130 games); while nearly 
250 players have now reached the 2,000-hit plateau, barely a dozen had 
done so by the end of the 19th century. In the era before 1893, when the 
distance between the pitcher and home plate was extended from 45 feet to 
60 feet, long-neglected stars Deacon White and Paul Hines were mainstays 
among the top five, along with Cap Anson and Jim O'Rourke. This chart uses 
the hit totals which are officially recognized by Major League Baseball, 
as maintained and provided by the Elias Sports Bureau; they are derived 
from the annual official league statistics, even when those totals have 
been proven by later research to be in error. Particularly with regard 
to players from before 1920, these totals often differ from those used 
by ESPN, CNN/Sports Illustrated, The Sporting News, the Baseball-Reference 
website, or by MLB's two longtime official encyclopedias, The Baseball 
Encyclopedia and Total Baseball. In fact, they are also not the same as 
the historical totals displayed on MLB's official website. While the specific 
totals may vary between sources, and slight variations in the order may 
result, the leaders would overwhelmingly be the same regardless of which 
set of numbers is used; with the exception of 1904, in no year does more 
than one player drop out of the top 10 when a different version of the 
statistics is employed. Furthermore, this table accurately represents what 
observers of each era believed to be true. Active players are marked in 
