A total of 54 Japanese-born[1] players have played in at least one Major 
League Baseball (MLB) game. Of these players, seven are currently on MLB 
rosters.[2] The first instance of a Japanese-born player playing in MLB 
occurred in 1964, when the Nankai Hawks, a Nippon Professional Baseball 
(NPB) team, sent three exchange prospects to the United States to gain 
experience in MLB's minor league system. One of the players, pitcher Masanori 
Murakami, was named the California League Rookie of the Year while playing 
for the Fresno Giants (the San Francisco Giants' Class-A team). Giants 
executives were impressed with his talent and on September 1, 1964 Murakami 
was promoted, thus becoming the first Japanese player to play in MLB.[3] 
After Murakami put up good pitching statistics as a reliever, Giants executives 
sought to exercise a clause in their contract with the Hawks that, they 
claimed, allowed them to buy up an exchange prospect's contract. NPB officials 
objected, stating that they had no intention of selling Murakami's contract 
to the Giants and telling them that Murakami was merely on loan for the 
1964 season. After a two-month stalemate the Giants eventually agreed to 
send Murakami back to the Hawks after the 1965 season. This affair led 
to the 1967 United States – Japanese Player Contract Agreement, also known 
as the "Working Agreement", between MLB and NPB, which was basically a 
hands-off policy.[4][5] For thirty years Murakami was the only Japanese 
player to appear in an MLB game. Pitcher Hideo Nomo, with the help of agent 
Don Nomura, became the second Japanese-born player to play in MLB in 1995. 
Nomo, who was not yet eligible for free agency in Japan, was advised by 
Nomura that a "voluntary retirement" clause in the Working Agreement did 
not specify that a player wishing to play again after retiring must return 
to NPB. Nomo utilized this loophole to void his NPB contract with the Kintetsu 
Buffaloes and play in MLB. He announced his retirement from NPB in late 
1994 and signed with the Los Angeles Dodgers in February 1995.[6] Nomo's 
maneuver and Hideki Irabu's later MLB contractual complications were contributing 
factors to a major revision of the Working Agreement in 1998 that created 
the current posting system.[7] Since its inception 12 Japanese-born players 
have been signed through the system, however one of these players, Shinji 
Mori, did not play in a single MLB game due to an injury. NPB players who 
have nine or more years of playing service with NPB can become free agents 
and do not need to enter MLB through the posting system.[8] The remaining 
Japanese-born players that have played in MLB have either signed as free 
agents or signed as amateur players. Mac Suzuki, Micheal Nakamura, Kazuhito 
Tadano, and Junichi Tazawa are the only Japanese players to have debuted 
in MLB without previously playing in NPB.[9][10][11][12] Japanese-born 
players have had a range of success in MLB. Twelve players have been selected 
to participate in the All-Star Game; Ichiro Suzuki has made the most appearances 
with ten. In addition to these selections, Ichiro has won several prestigious 
MLB awards including the American League (AL) Rookie of the Year Award 
and the AL Most Valuable Player (MVP) Award in 2001, the All-Star Game 
MVP Award in 2007 and multiple Gold Glove and Silver Slugger Awards. Ichiro 
also holds the MLB record for the recording the most hits in a single season. 
Hideo Nomo was the only Japanese-born pitcher to throw a no-hitter until 
Hisashi Iwakuma accomplished the feat on August 12, 2015. Nomo threw two 
in total; the first came in 1996 and the last occurred in 2001. Eleven 
Japanese players have played in the World Series. Of these players, So 
Taguchi has won the most with three and Hideki Matsui is the only one to 
