The Philadelphia Phillies are a Major League Baseball team based in Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania. They are a member of the Eastern Division of Major League 
Baseball's National League. In the franchise's history, the owners and 
ownership syndicates of the team have employed 11 general managers (GMs) 
and appointed 15 team presidents. The GM controls player transactions, 
hiring and firing of the coaching staff, and negotiates with players and 
agents regarding contracts.[1] The team president is the representative 
for the owner or the ownership group within the front office and is responsible 
for overseeing the team's staff, minor league farm system, and scouting.[2] 
The longest-tenured general manager is Paul Owens, with 11 years of service 
to the team in that role, from 1972 to 1983.[3] Owens also served as the 
team manager in 1972, and from 1983 to 1984.[4] After this time, he served 
as a team executive until 2003, and was inducted into the Philadelphia 
Baseball Wall of Fame in recognition of his services.[5] The longest-tenured 
owner is Bob Carpenter, Jr., who was the team's primary shareholder from 
1943 to 1972. He appointed the team's first general manager, Herb Pennock, 
during his tenure. In combination with his son, Ruly, the Carpenter family 
owned the Phillies for nearly 50 years (until 1981) until it was sold to 
Bill Giles, son of former league president Warren Giles. After Giles sold 
his part-ownership share, the Phillies are currently owned by John S. Middleton, 
Jim & Pete Buck, and former team President David Montgomery. The Phillies 
are currently overseen by team president Andy MacPhail and GM Matt Klentak.[6] 
The Phillies have employed 15 team presidents since their founding in 1883, 
beginning with sporting goods salesman Al Reach. The longest-tenured president 
is Bob Carpenter, Jr., who oversaw the club for 30 years. Currently, the 
office of team president is held by Andy MacPhail, who assumed the mantle 
in 2016. Ownership groups have often included the team president, but at 
other times, such as the tenure of Charles Phelps Taft, others were appointed 
to fill the president's role. The Phillies' first GM was Herb Pennock, 
selected by owner Bob Carpenter, Jr. to oversee the team when he went into 
the army; before this time, GM duties were handled primarily by the team 
owner, and this would continue after Pennock's tenure when a GM was not 
present. On September 10, 2015, the Phillies announced they would not extend 
GM Rubén Amaro, Jr.'s contract. Amaro had led the team since 2008.[23] 
