The Pittsburgh Pirates are a Major League Baseball franchise based in Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania. They play in the National League Central division. Also known 
in their early years as the "Pittsburgh Alleghanys" (1882–90),[1] pitchers 
for the Pirates have thrown 6 no-hitters in franchise history.[2] A no-hitter 
is officially recognized by Major League Baseball only "when a pitcher 
(or pitchers) retires each batter on the opposing team during the entire 
course of a game, which consists of at least nine innings".[3] No-hitters 
of less than nine complete innings were previously recognized by the league 
as official; however, several rule alterations in 1991 changed the rule 
to its current form.[4] A no-hitter is rare enough that one team in Major 
League Baseball has never had a pitcher accomplish the feat.[a] No perfect 
games, a special subcategory of no-hitter, have been thrown in Pirates 
history.[5] However on May 26, 1959, Harvey Haddix threw a 12-inning perfection 
until the fielding error by Don Hoak ended his perfection and eventually 
lost his no-hit bid and a game.[6] As defined by Major League Baseball, 
"in a perfect game, no batter reaches any base during the course of the 
game."[3] Nick Maddox threw the first no-hitter in Pirates history on September 
20, 1907; the most recent no-hitter was jointly thrown by Francisco Córdova 
and Ricardo Rincón on July 12, 1997.[5] Two left-handed starting pitchers 
have threw no-hitters in franchise history while four were by right-handers. 
Three no-hitters were thrown at home and three on the road. They threw 
one in May, one in June, one in July, one in August, and two in September. 
The longest interval between no-hitters was between the games pitched by 
Maddox and Cliff Chambers, encompassing 43 years, 7 months, and 16 days 
from September 20, 1907 till May 6, 1951. Conversely, the shortest interval 
between no-hitters was between the games pitched by Moose and Dock Ellis, 
encompassing merely 8 months and 23 days from September 20, 1969 till June 
12, 1970.[5] They no-hit the Los Angeles Dodgers (formerly "Brooklyn Superbas") 
the most, which occurred twice, which were no-hit by Maddox in 1907 and 
a combined no-hitter by Córdova and Rincón in 1997. There is one no-hitter 
which the team allowed at least a run, thrown by Maddox in 1907. There 
is one no-hitter which had a dramatic finish: Mark Smith hit a game winning 
three-run home run in the bottom of the tenth inning on July 12, 1997. 
The most baserunners allowed in a no-hitter was by Ellis (in 1970), who 
allowed nine. Of the 6 no-hitters, three have been won by a score of 3–0, 
more common than any other results. The largest margin of victory in a 
no-hitter was a 3–0 wins by Cliff Chambers in 1951, Bob Moose in 1969, 
and a combined no-hitter by Córdova and Rincón in 1991. The smallest margin 
of victory was a 2–1 win by Maddox in 1907. The umpire is also an integral 
part of any no-hitter. The task of the umpire in a baseball game is to 
make any decision "which involves judgment, such as, but not limited to, 
whether a batted ball is fair or foul, whether a pitch is a strike or a 
ball, or whether a runner is safe or out... [the umpire's judgment on such 
matters] is final."[7] Part of the duties of the umpire making calls at 
home plate includes defining the strike zone, which "is defined as that 
area over homeplate (sic) the upper limit of which is a horizontal line 
at the midpoint between the top of the shoulders and the top of the uniform 
pants, and the lower level is a line at the hollow beneath the kneecap."[7] 
These calls define every baseball game and are therefore integral to the 
completion of any no-hitter.[8] A different umpire presided over each of 
the Pirates' six no-hitters. The manager is another integral part of any 
no-hitter. The tasks of the manager is to determine the starting rotation 
as well as batting order and defensive lineup every game. Managers choosing 
the right pitcher and right defensive lineup at a right game at a right 
place at a right time would contribute to a no-hitter.[citation needed] 
