The St. Louis Cardinals are a Major League Baseball franchise based in 
St. Louis Missouri. They play in the National League Central division. 
Also known in their early years as the "St. Louis Brown Stockings" (1882), 
"St. Louis Browns" (1883–98), and "St. Louis Perfectos" (1899),[1] pitchers 
for the Cardinals have thrown 10 no-hitters in franchise history.[2] A 
no-hitter is officially recognized by Major League Baseball only “when 
a pitcher (or pitchers) retires each batter on the opposing team during 
the entire course of a game, which consists of at least nine innings”.[3] 
No-hitters of less than nine complete innings were previously recognized 
by the league as official; however, several rule alterations in 1991 changed 
the rule to its current form.[4] A no-hitter is rare enough that one team 
in Major League Baseball has never had a pitcher accomplish the feat.[a] 
A perfect game, a special subcategory of no-hitter, has yet to be thrown 
in Cardinals history.[5] As defined by Major League Baseball, “in a perfect 
game, no batter reaches any base during the course of the game.”[3] Ted 
Breitenstein threw the first no-hitter in Cardinals franchise history on 
his first major league start on October 4, 1891[6] when the team was known 
as the "St. Louis Browns"; the most recent no-hitter was thrown by Bud 
Smith on September 3, 2001.[5] Two left-handed pitchers have thrown no-hitters 
in franchise history, while seven were by right-handers. Four no-hitters 
were thrown at home and six on the road, whilst all ten have been pitched 
against different opponents. The Cardinals have thrown one no-hitter in 
April, one in June, one in July, two in August, four in September, and 
one in October. The longest interval between no-hitters was between the 
games pitched by Breitenstein and Jesse Haines, encompassing 32 years, 
9 months, and 13 days from October 4, 1891 till August 17, 1924. Conversely, 
the shortest interval between no-hitters was between the games pitched 
by Jiménez and Smith, encompassing merely 2 years, 2 months, and 9 days 
from June 25, 1999 till September 3, 2001.[5] In none of their ten no-hitters 
did the Cardinals allow any runs via errors, walks, hit batters or uncaught 
third strikes. The most baserunners allowed in a no-hitter was by Ray Washburn 
(in 1968), who allowed five. Of the ten no-hitters, two have been won by 
a score of 2–0, 3–0, and 5–0, more common than any other results. The largest 
margin of victory in a no-hitter was an 11–0 win by Bob Gibson in 1971. 
The smallest margin of victory was a 1–0 win by Jiménez in 2001. The umpire 
is also an integral part of any no-hitter. The task of the umpire in a 
baseball game is to make any decision "which involves judgment, such as, 
but not limited to, whether a batted ball is fair or foul, whether a pitch 
is a strike or a ball, or whether a runner is safe or out… [the umpire's 
judgment on such matters] is final."[7] Part of the duties of the umpire 
making calls at home plate includes defining the strike zone, which "is 
defined as that area over homeplate (sic) the upper limit of which is a 
horizontal line at the midpoint between the top of the shoulders and the 
top of the uniform pants, and the lower level is a line at the hollow beneath 
the kneecap."[7] These calls define every baseball game and are therefore 
integral to the completion of any no-hitter.[8] Eight different umpires 
presided over each of the franchise's ten no-hitters. The manager is another 
integral part of any no-hitter. The tasks of the manager is to determine 
the starting rotation as well as batting order and defensive lineup every 
game. Managers choosing the right pitcher and right defensive lineup at 
a right game at a right place at a right time would contribute to a no-hitter.[citation 
needed] Eight different managers have led to the franchise's ten no-hitters. 
