Major League Baseball presents a variety of annual awards and trophies 
to recognize both its teams and its players. Three team trophies are awarded 
annually: one each to the National League and American League champions, 
and one of the champion of the World Series. Additionally, various organizations—such 
as the Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA), the Office of 
the Commissioner of Baseball, and select corporate sponsors—present awards 
for such accomplishments as excellence in batting, pitching performance, 
fielding prowess, and community service.[1][2] The Most Valuable Player 
Award, commonly known as the "MVP", is the oldest individual award, given 
in its current format since 1931.[1] MVP awards are also presented for 
performances in the Major League Baseball All-Star Game, the League Championship 
Series, and the World Series.[1] Offensive awards include the Silver Slugger 
Award and the Hank Aaron Award, while the Cy Young Award and Rolaids Relief 
Man Award recognize pitching; the Rawlings Gold Glove Award is given for 
fielding. The DHL Delivery Man and Major League Baseball Comeback Player 
of the Year Awards are the newest awards, both established in 2005.[3][4] 
Additionally, the Commissioner, at his discretion, can present an Historic 
Achievement Award for any great contribution to the sport that he deems 
worthy. The Commissioner's Trophy is presented each year by the Commissioner 
of Baseball to the Major League Baseball team that wins the World Series. 
The World Series is played between the champion clubs of the American League 
and the National League. The "modern" World Series has been played every 
year since 1903 with the exception of 1904, which was cancelled when the 
NL champion New York Giants declined to play the AL champion Boston Americans,[5] 
and 1994, which was cancelled due to the players' strike.[6] Baseball has 
employed various championship formulas since the 1860s. When the term "World 
Series" is used by itself, it is usually understood to refer to the "modern" 
World Series exclusively.[7] The World Series championship is determined 
through a best-of-seven playoff. Best-of-seven has been the format of nearly 
all of the modern World Series, except 1903 and 1919–1921 which were best-of-nine. 
In addition to the Commissioner's Trophy, each player on the winning team 
receives an individual World Series ring. The Commissioner's Trophy has 
been awarded to the Series winner since 1967.[8] Recent trophy designs 
contain flags representing each team in each league.[9] It is the only 
championship trophy of the four major sports in the United States that 
is not named after a particular person[10] (contrasting with the National 
Hockey League's Stanley Cup,[11] the National Football League's Vince Lombardi 
Trophy,[12] and the National Basketball Association's Larry O'Brien Trophy).[13] 
The current holders of the trophy are the Chicago Cubs of the National 
League, who won the 2016 World Series. The Warren C. Giles Trophy is presented 
annually to the champion of the National League.[14] Named for Warren Giles, 
who was league president from 1951 to 1969, the award is passed from champion 
to champion (like the NHL's Stanley Cup) as opposed a new trophy being 
created each season. Warren's son Bill Giles, the honorary league president 
and owner of the Philadelphia Phillies, presents the trophy to the National 
League champion at the conclusion of each National League Championship 
Series.[14] The Chicago Cubs are the current holders of the Giles Trophy 
after beating the Los Angeles Dodgers in the 2016 National League Championship 
Series. The William Harridge Trophy is the American League's counterpart 
to the Giles Trophy, and is presented each year to the American League 
champion by honorary league president Jackie Autry.[15] The trophy features 
a golden eagle, the league's emblem, sitting atop a silver baseball and 
clutching the American League banner.[16] The trophy is named for Will 
Harridge, who was league president from 1931 to 1958.[17] The Cleveland 
Indians are the current holders of the Harridge Trophy, in honor of their 
2016 American League championship. Unlike its National League counterpart, 
a new trophy is awarded each year. The Most Valuable Player Award (commonly 
known as the MVP) is an annual award given to one outstanding player in 
each league of Major League Baseball. The MVP originated in 1910 as the 
Chalmers Award, sponsored by the Chalmers Automobile Company. Chalmers 
presented the award until 1914.[18] The National and American Leagues presented 
their own "League Awards" from 1922 to 1929,[19] after which the BBWAA 
began to present an unofficial award. Since 1931, it has been officially 
presented by the BBWAA. Each winner receives the Kenesaw Mountain Landis 
Memorial Baseball Award, which became the official name of the award in 
1944,[20] in honor of the first MLB commissioner, who served from 1920 
until his death on November 25, 1944.[20] The 2012 winners of the award 
are Miguel Cabrera of the American League's Detroit Tigers and Buster Posey 
of the National League's San Francisco Giants. The 2013 winners of the 
award are Miguel Cabrera of the American League's Detroit Tigers and Andrew 
McCutchen of the National League's Pittsburgh Pirates. The Cy Young Award 
is an honor given annually in baseball to the best pitchers in Major League 
Baseball, one each for the American and National Leagues. The award was 
first introduced in 1956 by Commissioner Ford Frick in honor of Hall of 
Fame pitcher Cy Young, who died in 1955. The award was originally given 
to the single best pitcher in the major leagues, but after Frick's retirement 
in 1967, the award was given to one pitcher in each league.[21] Each league's 
award is voted on by members of the Baseball Writers' Association of America, 
with two representatives from each team.[22] The Rookie of the Year Award 
is given annually to one player from each league, as voted upon by the 
BBWAA. The award was established in 1940 by the Chicago chapter of the 
BBWAA who alone selected a rookie of the year.[23] Starting in 1947, all 
members of the national BBWAA organization voted. Jackie Robinson was awarded 
the first official Rookie of the Year award.[24] The award was originally 
known as the J. Louis Comiskey Memorial Award, after the Chicago White 
Sox owner of the 1930s. In 1987, it was renamed the Jackie Robinson Award, 
in honor of the 40th year since Robinson broke the baseball color line. 
Only two players, both in the American League, have been named Rookie of 
the Year and MVP in the same year: Fred Lynn in 1975 and Ichiro Suzuki 
in 2001. The only Rookie of the Year to win the Cy Young Award in the same 
year was Fernando Valenzuela in 1981. In 1947 and 1948, only one award 
was given to a single player. Since 1949, the honor has been given to one 
player in each league.[25] The 2012 Rookies of the Year were Bryce Harper 
of the Washington Nationals and Mike Trout of the Los Angeles Angels of 
Anaheim. The 2013 Rookies of the Year were José Fernández of the Miami 
Marlins and Wil Myers of the Tampa Bay Rays. The Manager of the Year Award 
is an honor given annually since 1983 to the best managers in the American 
and National Leagues. The winner is voted on by 28 members of the BBWAA. 
Each places a vote for first, second, and third place among the managers 
of each league.[a] The manager with the highest score in each league wins 
the award.[26] In 1991, Bobby Cox became the first manager to win the award 
in both leagues, winning with the Atlanta Braves and having previously 
won with the Toronto Blue Jays in 1985.[27] Tony La Russa, Lou Piniella, 
and Jim Leyland have since won the award in both leagues.[28][29][30] Joe 
Girardi is the only manager to win the award with a fourth-place team (2006 
Florida Marlins);[31] he is also the only manager to win the award after 
fielding a team with a losing record.[32][33] The 2011 Managers of the 
Year were the Tampa Bay Rays' Joe Maddon and the Arizona Diamondbacks' 
Kirk Gibson. The 2012 Managers of the Year were the Oakland Athletics' 
Bob Melvin and the Washington Nationals' Davey Johnson. The Rawlings Gold 
Glove Award, usually referred to as the Gold Glove, is the award given 
annually to the players judged to have exhibited superior individual fielding 
performances at each fielding position in both the National and American 
Leagues, as voted by the managers and coaches in each league.[34] Managers 
are not permitted to vote for their own players.[34] Eighteen Gold Gloves 
are awarded each year (with the exception of 1957, 1985 and 2007), one 
at each of the nine positions in each league. The Silver Slugger Award 
is awarded annually to the best offensive player at each position in both 
the American League and the National League, as determined by Major League 
Baseball's coaches and managers. These voters consider several offensive 
categories in selecting the winners, including batting average, slugging 
percentage, and on-base percentage, in addition to "coaches' and managers' 
general impressions of a player's overall offensive value".[35] As with 
the Gold Glove, the prize is presented to outfielders irrespective of their 
specific position.[36][37] Additionally, only National League pitchers 
receive a Silver Slugger Award;[37] lineups in the American League include 
the designated hitter, who replaces the pitcher in the batting order,[38] 
so the designated hitter receives the award instead.[36] The Hank Aaron 
Award is given annually to the Major League Baseball players selected as 
the top hitter in each league, as voted on by baseball fans and members 
of the media. It was introduced in 1999 to commemorate the 25th anniversary 
of Hank Aaron surpassing Babe Ruth's 714 career home runs. The award was 
the first major award to be introduced by Major League Baseball in more 
than 25 years.[39] Each team's radio and television play-by-play broadcasters 
and color analysts vote for three players in each league. Their first place 
vote receives five points, the second place vote receives three points, 
and the third place vote receives one point. Beginning in 2003, fans were 
given the opportunity to vote via Major League Baseball's website. Fans' 
votes account for 30% of the points, while broadcasters' and analysts' 
votes account for the other 70%.[40] The 2016 winners of the Hank Aaron 
Award are David Ortiz of the Boston Red Sox and Kris Bryant of the Chicago 
Cubs. The Rolaids Relief Man Award was an annual award given from the 1976 
season to the 2012 season to the top relief pitchers of the regular season, 
one each in the American and National Leagues. Relief pitchers enter the 
game after the starting pitcher is removed. Because the first closers were 
nicknamed "firemen", a reference to "putting out the fire" of another team's 
rally,[41] the trophy is a gold-plated firefighter's helmet. The Relief 
Man of the Year is based on statistical performance, rather than votes. 
Each save is worth three points; a win, two points; a loss, negative two 
points; and a blown save, negative two points. A "tough save", which is 
worth an additional point, occurs when a relief pitcher enters the game 
and gets the save with the tying run already on base. The 2012 award winners 
are Jim Johnson of the Baltimore Orioles in the American League, and Craig 
Kimbrel of the Atlanta Braves in the National League. The Comeback Player 
of the Year Award is presented by MLB to the player who is judged to have 
"re-emerged on the baseball field during a given season."[4] The award 
was developed in 2005, as part of a sponsorship agreement between MLB and 
Viagra.[4] In 2005 and 2006 representatives from MLB and MLB.com selected 
six candidates each from the AL and NL and one winner for each league was 
selected via an online poll on MLB.com.[4][42] Since then, the winners 
have been selected by a panel of MLB beat reporters.[43][44] Under the 
current voting structure, first-place votes are worth five points, second-place 
votes worth three, and third-place votes worth one, with the award going 
to the player with the most overall points.[45] The 2016 winners are José 
Fernández of the Miami Marlins in the NL and Mark Trumbo of the Baltimore 
Orioles in the AL. The World Series MVP Award is given to the player who 
most contributes to his team's success in the final round of the Major 
League Baseball post-season. The award was originally given by the editors 
of Sport magazine, but is now decided by a combination of media members 
and Major League Baseball officials.[46] The current holder is Ben Zobrist, 
who batted .357 in the 2016 World Series. The second round of the Major 
League Baseball post-season is known as the League Championship Series. 
This series has a best-of-seven playoff format, and currently follows the 
Division Series,[47] in which the three division champions and one wild 
card team from each league play against each other based on their regular-season 
records.[a] The winners of the National League Championship Series and 
the American League Championship Series advance to the World Series. The 
current holders are Jon Lester and Javier Báez in the National League and 
Andrew Miller in the American League. The Major League Baseball All-Star 
Game Most Valuable Player (MVP) Award is an annual Major League Baseball 
(MLB) award given to the most outstanding player in each year's MLB All-Star 
Game. Awarded each season since 1962, it was originally called the "Arch 
Ward Memorial Award" in honor of Arch Ward, the man who conceived the All-Star 
Game. The award's name was changed to the "Commissioner's Trophy" in 1970, 
but this name change was reversed in 1985 when the World Series Trophy 
was renamed the Commissioner's Trophy. Finally, the trophy was renamed 
the "Ted Williams Most Valuable Player Award" in 2002, in honor of former 
Boston Red Sox player Ted Williams, who had died earlier that year.[48] 
No award was presented for the 2002 All-Star Game, which ended in a tie.[49] 
In 2003, Garret Anderson of the Anaheim Angels was the first recipient 
of the newly named Ted Williams Award. Eric Hosmer of the Kansas City Royals 
is the most recent winner. The Roberto Clemente Award is given annually 
to the player in Major League Baseball who "best exemplifies the game of 
baseball, sportsmanship, community involvement and the individual's contribution 
to his team", as voted on by baseball fans and members of the media. It 
is named for Hall of Fame outfielder Roberto Clemente. Originally known 
as the Commissioner's Award, it has been presented by Major League Baseball 
since 1971. In 1973, the award was renamed after Clemente following his 
death in a plane crash while delivering supplies to victims of the 1972 
Nicaragua earthquake.[50] Each year, a panel of baseball dignitaries selects 
1 player from 30 nominees, one from each club. Teams choose their nominee 
during the regular season, and the winner is announced at the World Series.[50] 
The player who receives the most votes online via MLB's official website, 
MLB.com, gets one vote in addition to the votes cast by the panel.[50] 
Curtis Granderson of the New York Mets is the 2016 winner and current holder 
of the award. The Major League Baseball Delivery Man Award is presented 
by Major League Baseball to the best relief pitcher in the league. The 
award was developed in 2005, as part of a sponsorship agreement between 
Major League Baseball and package delivery company DHL Express.[3] A monthly 
version of the award is also handed out to relievers during the season. 
The annual award ("DHL presents the Delivery Man of the Year") is voted 
upon by fans,[51] while the monthly edition ("DHL presents the Major League 
Baseball Delivery Man of the Month") is decided by a four-man panel of 
baseball experts and commentators.[52] The 2016 recipients of the annual 
award were Zach Britton of the Baltimore Orioles and Kenley Jansen of the 
Los Angeles Dodgers. The Commissioner's Historic Achievement Award is presented 
by the Commissioner of Major League Baseball to a group or individual who 
has made a "major impact on the sport" of baseball.[53] The award consists 
of a trophy: a gold baseball sitting atop a silver trophy base.[54] The 
award has been presented thirteen times by Commissioner Bud Selig: eleven 
times to players, once to a team, and once to a non-player. The award is 
most often presented for breaking a Major League Baseball record; it has 
been presented three times to players who broke the single-season home 
run record (Sammy Sosa, Mark McGwire, and Barry Bonds). Other record-breakers 
to receive the award include Ichiro Suzuki (hits in a single season), Cal 
Ripken, Jr. (consecutive games played), Rickey Henderson (career stolen 
bases and career runs scored) and Mariano Rivera (career saves, both regular 
season and postseason; postseason ERA).[55] The most recent recipients 
