A ban from Major League Baseball is a form of punishment levied by the 
Office of the Commissioner of Major League Baseball (MLB) against a player, 
manager, executive, or other person connected with the league as a denunciation 
of some action that person committed that violated or tarnished the integrity 
of the game. A banned person is forbidden from employment with MLB or its 
affiliated minor leagues, and is forbidden from other professional involvement 
with MLB such as acting as a sports agent for an MLB player. Since 1991, 
all banned people – whether living or deceased – have been barred from 
induction to the Baseball Hall of Fame. Major League Baseball has maintained 
a list of "permanently ineligible" people since Kenesaw Mountain Landis 
was installed as the first Commissioner of Baseball in 1920. Although the 
majority of banned persons were banned after the establishment of the Commissioner's 
office, some were formally banned prior to that time while a few others 
were informally "blacklisted" by the Major League clubs. Most persons who 
have been banned (including many who have been reinstated) were banned 
due to association with gambling or otherwise conspiring to fix the outcomes 
of games; others have been banned for a multitude of reasons including 
illegal activities off the field, violating some term of their playing 
contract, or making disparaging remarks that cast the game in a bad light. 
Lipman 'Lip' Pike, notable for being baseball's first professional player 
(when the Philadelphia Athletics agreed to pay him $20 a week in 1866), 
also became baseball's first banned player: Before 1920, players were banned 
by the decision of a committee. There were 14 banned from 1865–1920; of 
those, 12 were banned for association with gambling or attempting to fix 
games, one was banned for violating the reserve clause, and one was banned 
for making disparaging remarks. In 1920, team owners established the Office 
of the Commissioner of Baseball, ostensibly to keep the players in line 
and out of corruption's way. Kenesaw Mountain Landis, a federal judge, 
was the owners' ideal candidate for the job and was given unlimited power 
over the game, including the authority to ban people from the game. He 
banned many players and various others, often for very small offenses, 
and at times almost indiscriminately. In his 24 years as commissioner, 
Landis banned more people than all of his successors combined. Since Landis' 
death in 1944, Pete Rose is the only person banned by one of his successors 
who has not been reinstated. While Jenrry Mejia was permanently banned 
by Rob Manfred in February 2016 for third positive test for performance-enhancing 
drugs, he will be eligible to apply for reinstatement in 2017. Should he 
be reinstated, Mejia will not be eligible to pitch until 2018 at the earliest. 
In 1991, the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum voted to bar banned 
players from induction. In 2005, as a result of the findings of the Mitchell 
Report, the Major League Baseball Players Association stipulated that multiple 
violations of the new Major League Baseball drug policy would result in 
a lifetime ban.[2] A person who has been banned from Major League Baseball 
is barred from: Terms such as "lifetime ban" and "permanent ban" are misnomers, 
as a banned person may be reinstated (i.e., have the ban removed) on the 
decision of the Commissioner of Major League Baseball. Also, in the case 
of Hall of Fame induction, bans have typically extended beyond a person's 
lifetime. Among the activities that a banned person is not precluded from 
participating (as of 2016) in include: These players were unofficially 
banned from baseball prior to the creation of the office of Commissioner 
of Baseball and later had their bans made official by baseball's first 
Commissioner, Kenesaw Mountain Landis. After Landis died in 1944, there 
was a long lull before the next banishment. During the tenures of Commissioners 
Happy Chandler (1945–1951), Ford Frick (1951–1965), Spike Eckert (1965–1968), 
Bowie Kuhn (1969–1984) and Peter Ueberroth (1984-1989), only three players 
(or former players) were banned for life. All three were banned by Kuhn, 
and all three were later reinstated. By the time of Kuhn's tenure, players 
had organized the Major League Baseball Players Association and negotiated 
the first Basic Agreement with the owners. Among other things the Agreement 
provided, for the first time, an independent process through which active 
players could appeal disciplinary decisions (up to and including lifetime 
bans) by League presidents or the Commissioner. As of 2016, no such process 
exists for personnel who are not members of the MLBPA. A. Bartlett Giamatti 
served only five months as Commissioner of Baseball before he died of a 
heart attack at his Martha's Vineyard home. Fay Vincent became commissioner 
upon the death of Giamatti. Bud Selig became Commissioner after Fay Vincent's 
resignation; he was Acting Commissioner between 1992–1998, and was elected 
to the Office of Commissioner in 1998. Rob Manfred succeeded Bud Selig 
as the Commissioner of Baseball after Selig's retirement on January 25, 
