The Chicago Cubs are a Major League Baseball franchise based in Chicago 
that plays in the National League Central division. In the history of the 
franchise, it has also played under the names Chicago White Stockings, 
Chicago Colts and Chicago Orphans. The first game of the new baseball season 
for a team is played on Opening Day, and being named the Opening Day starter 
is an honor, which is often given to the player who is expected to lead 
the pitching staff that season,[1] though there are various strategic reasons 
why a team's best pitcher might not start on Opening Day.[2] The Cubs have 
used 68 different starting pitchers on Opening Day since they first became 
a Major League team in 1876. The Cubs have a record of 74 wins, 60 losses 
and 2 ties in their Opening Day games. The Cubs have played in seven different 
home ball parks.[3] They have played at their current home, Wrigley Field, 
since 1916.[3] They have a record of 22 wins, 21 losses and 1 tie in Opening 
Day games at Wrigley Field. They had an Opening Day record of six wins, 
one loss and one tie at their other home ball parks, for a total home record 
in Opening Day games of 28 wins, 22 losses and 2 ties. Their record in 
Opening Day away games is 46 wins and 38 losses. Ferguson Jenkins holds 
the Cubs record for most Opening Day starts with seven, in which his record 
was two wins, two losses and three no decisions. Carlos Zambrano has made 
six Opening Day starts. Larry Corcoran, Clark Griffith, Grover Cleveland 
Alexander, Charlie Root and Rick Sutcliffe have each made five Opening 
Day starts for the Cubs. Orval Overall, Lon Warneke, Bob Rush, Larry Jackson 
and Rick Reuschel each made four Opening Day starts for the Cubs, and Bill 
Hutchinson, Jon Lieber, Claude Passeau, Jack Taylor and Hippo Vaughn each 
made three such starts. Five Cubs' Opening Day starting pitchers have been 
inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame: Griffith, Alexander, Jenkins, 
Al Spalding and John Clarkson.[4] In addition, 300–game winner Greg Maddux 
was the Cubs' Opening Day starting pitcher in 1992.[5] The Cubs have won 
the modern World Series championship twice, in 1907 and 1908.[6] Overall 
was the Cubs' Opening Day starting pitcher both seasons, and the Cubs won 
both of those Opening Day games.[7][8] Don Cardwell was the Cubs' Opening 
Day starting pitcher against the Houston Colt .45s on April 10, 1962, the 
first game in Houston's history.[9][10] The Cubs lost the game by a score 
