The following is a list of the national television and radio networks and 
announcers that have broadcast National League Championship Series games 
over the years. It does not include any announcers who may have appeared 
on local broadcasts produced by the participating teams. For all of the 
League Championship Series telecasts spanning from 1969 to 1975, only Game 
2 of the 1972 American League Championship Series (Oakland vs. Detroit) 
is known to exist. However, the copy on the trade circuit of Game 2 of 
the 1972 ALCS is missing the Bert Campaneris-Lerrin LaGrow brawl. There 
are some instances where the only brief glimpse of telecast footage of 
an early LCS game can be seen in a surviving newscast from that night. 
For instance, the last out of the 1973 National League Championship Series 
as described by Jim Simpson was played on that night's NBC Nightly News, 
but other than that, the entire game is gone. On the day the New York Mets 
and Baltimore Orioles wrapped up their respective League Championship Series 
in 1969, a feature story on the CBS Evening News showed telecast clips 
of the ALCS game (there's no original sound, just voiceover narration). 
This is all that likely remains of anything from that third game of the 
Orioles-Twins series. While all telecasts of World Series games starting 
with 1975 are accounted for and exist, the LCS is still a spotty situation 
through the late 1970s: As previously mentioned, from 1969 until 1983, 
the Major League Baseball television contract allowed a local TV station 
in the market of each competing team to also carry the LCS games. From 
1969 to 1975, there was no official national radio network coverage of 
the League Championship Series. NBC only had the national radio rights 
to the All-Star Game and World Series during this period. Instead, national 
coverage was provided by local team radio broadcasts being syndicated nationally 
over ad hoc networks. From 1969 to present, with the exception of the period 
between 1969 and 1975, the non-national radio broadcasts of the National 
League Championship Series we're broadcast on the flagship station and 
the radio network of the teams participating in the National League Championship 
