The San Francisco Giants are a professional baseball team based in San 
Francisco, California. They have been a member of the National League (NL), 
as a part of Major League Baseball, since the team's inception in 1883. 
They joined the NL West following the establishment of divisions within 
the league in 1969. The Giants played 75 seasons in New York City, New 
York, as the New York Gothams and New York Giants, spending the majority 
of their seasons at the Polo Grounds in Upper Manhattan.[1] The Giants 
relocated to San Francisco in 1958, briefly playing at Seals Stadium. After 
sharing Candlestick Park for 29 years with the San Francisco 49ers National 
Football League team, the Giants moved to their current home, AT&T Park, 
in 2000.[2] The Giants are one of the most successful teams in Major League 
Baseball history, having won more games than any other team and having 
the second highest winning percentage.[3] Their eight World Series titles 
are tied for fourth-most in baseball, while their 23 pennants are the most 
in the National League, and second-most overall.[3] Their first title came 
in 1905 against the Philadelphia Athletics, where they won the series 4–1. 
They claimed four consecutive National League pennants between 1921 and 
1924, going on to beat cross-town team the New York Yankees in the World 
Series on two of those occasions. Their fourth title came in 1933 as they 
beat the Washington Senators in five games. The 1951 season saw the Giants 
beat their rivals the Brooklyn Dodgers in a three-game playoff for the 
National League pennant. The Giants won the series 2–1 on a walk-off home 
run by Bobby Thomson in game 3, a moment remembered as the Shot Heard 'Round 
the World. They went on to lose in the World Series to the Yankees. A 4–0 
series sweep of the Cleveland Indians in the 1954 World Series earned the 
Giants their fifth title. Until 2010, the Giants were without a title since 
relocation to San Francisco — at the time this was the third-longest World 
Series winning drought in the league.[4] They have made it to the World 
Series on six occasions following the move, but were on the losing side 
each of the first three times. Among those was the 1989 World Series, when 
the "Bay Bridge Series", being contested against neighboring team the Oakland 
Athletics, was interrupted by the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake; the series 
was postponed for ten days, and the Giants were eventually swept by the 
A's. The club ended its title-winning drought in 2010, as they beat the 
Texas Rangers 4–1 to bring the Commissioner's Trophy to San Francisco for 
the first time in the city's history.[4] The Giants won their second title 
in San Francisco in 2012, sweeping the Detroit Tigers,[5] and won again 
for the third time in five years in 2014, defeating the Kansas City Royals 
in seven games.[6] The following table describes the Giants' MLB win–loss 
record by decade. These statistics are from Baseball-Reference.com's San 
Francisco Giants History & Encyclopedia,[39] and are current as of October 
18, 2016. Note: These statistics are current as of the conclusion of the 
