The first recorded baseball event in Australia took place in Melbourne, 
Victoria in 1857, between teams from Collingwood and Richmond. Accounts 
vary as to the details, including whether it was a single game or a series 
of three games, though details in common include a score of 350–230 in 
favour of Collingwood, and that the rules used were some form of hybrid 
between cricket and baseball, with teams batting until all players were 
out, and runs being scored for every base crossed, rather than just for 
reaching home plate.[1][2] Though there are no records to confirm it, the 
commonly held belief is that baseball in Australia originated on the Ballarat 
gold-fields among American miners.[1] The Claxton Shield, the first annually 
recurring national tournament, commenced in 1934. Though the tournament 
itself has been supplanted at various points in its history, the physical 
Shield is still awarded to the national champions in the Australian Baseball 
League.[3] From 2011, the national champions will meet other champions 
from Japan, South Korea and Chinese Taipei in the Asia Series.[4] As of 
the 2012 Major League Baseball (MLB) season[update], 31 Australians have 
played in at least one MLB game. Of those players, 28 were born in Australia, 
the remainder having been born elsewhere but raised in Australia and have 
played for the Australia national baseball team at International Baseball 
Federation or sanctioned tournaments such as the Olympic Games and World 
Baseball Classic. 21 of the players have been pitchers and the other 10 
have been position players. Australia became the sixth country (not counting 
the United States) to have a player represent it in the major leagues, 
when Joe Quinn made his debut on 26 April 1884 for the St. Louis Maroons. 
Quinn also became the first Australian-born manager, as a player-manager 
for the St. Louis Browns in 1895.[5] After Quinn played his last MLB game, 
it was almost 85 years before another Australian would appear in an MLB 
game: Craig Shipley on 22 June 1986 for the Los Angeles Dodgers.[6] The 
most recent Australian-born player to make his debut in the major leagues 
is Liam Hendriks, who played for the Minnesota Twins on 6 September 2011.[7] 
As of 2013[update], Grant Balfour and David Nilsson are the only Australians 
to have played in an MLB All-Star Game. In 2013, Balfour was added to the 
squad by AL manager Jim Leyland as a 'Sunday replacement' pitcher. In 1999, 
Nilsson was one of two players from the Milwaukee Brewers to be selected.[8] 
At this time the starting lineup was selected by the fans through voting 
at stadiums and online. The remaining players were selected by the managers 
of the respective teams, themselves having been the managers of the league 
champions from the previous season: in Nilsson's case, he was selected 
by Bruce Bochy, who had managed the San Diego Padres to the 1998 World 
Series against the New York Yankees.[9] Trent Durrington became the only 
Australian position player to pitch in an MLB game when he appeared for 
the Milwaukee Brewers on 17 April 2004 against the Houston Astros.[10] 
Durrington had already entered the game initially as a pinch hitter and 
remained in the game playing at third base. With two outs in the bottom 
of the eighth inning, Durrington faced one hitter and induced a fly ball 
out.[11] Joe Quinn became the first Australian to make an appearance in 
a postseason game for a Major League team, when the Boston Beaneaters met 
the Cleveland Spiders in a best-of-nine game series between the season's 
first half and second half leaders. In 1892, the National League (NL) was 
the only active Major League, and Boston were already considered to be 
the NL pennant winners as they had the best record at the end of the season, 
and the series—won by the Beaneaters 5–0 (with one tie)—was considered 
an exhibition series.[43] In the modern era (considered to be from 1901 
to today by MLB, as it was the first season with both of the current Major 
Leagues in operation), four Australians have played in postseason games, 
all of them pitchers. Graeme Lloyd became the first, playing with the New 
York Yankees in 1996. He made appearances against the Texas Rangers in 
the League Division Series, the Baltimore Orioles in the League Championship 
Series, and the Atlanta Braves in the World Series. Lloyd was credited 
with the win in game 4 of the 1996 World Series,[44] becoming the first 
Australian player to do so, as well as becoming the first Australian to 
be a World Series champion when the Yankees won in 1996[45] and again in 
1998.[9] Grant Balfour holds the record for most appearances in postseason 
games for an Australian, having played in a total of seventeen games, thirteen 
with the Tampa Bay Rays, two with the Minnesota Twins and two with the 
Oakland Athletics.[12] Damian Moss and Peter Moylan are the other two Australians 
to have made a postseason appearance, both having played for the Atlanta 
Braves against the San Francisco Giants: Moss in the 2002 National League 
Division Series,[27] and Moylan in the 2010 National League Division Series.[28] 
