A tie-breaker is required in Major League Baseball (MLB) when two or more 
teams are tied at the end of the regular season for a playoff position 
including a pennant (prior to the introduction of the League Championship 
Series in 1969), a division title, or a wild card spot. Both the American 
(AL) and National Leagues (NL) currently use a one-game playoff format 
for tie-breakers, although the NL used a best-of-three series prior to 
1969, when the leagues were split into divisions. Fourteen tie-breakers—ten 
single-game and four series—have been played in MLB history. In baseball 
statistics, tie-breaker games count as regular season games with all events 
in them counted towards regular season statistics. This can have implications 
on statistical races, such as when Matt Holliday won the batting average 
and runs batted in titles thanks in part to his performance in the 2007 
tie-breaker.[1] Home-field advantage for tie-breakers was determined by 
a coin flip through the 2008 season, after which performance-based criteria, 
such as head-to-head record of the tied teams, were put in place.[2] Although 
there have been no situations requiring a tie-breaker between more than 
two teams it is possible. In 2007, for example, the Philadelphia Phillies, 
New York Mets, San Diego Padres, Colorado Rockies, and Arizona Diamondbacks 
finished the season within two games of one another.[3] The possibility 
existed for as many as four teams to be locked in a series of tie-breakers 
that year to decide the NL East, West, and Wild Card.[4] Similarly, late 
in the 2012 season the possibility existed for the New York Yankees, Baltimore 
Orioles, and either the Texas Rangers or Oakland Athletics to all finish 
with the same record. This could have required the teams to play a complex 
set of multiple games to determine divisional and wild card winners, a 
situation which Jayson Stark described as potentially "baseball's worst 
scheduling nightmare."[5] The first tie-breaker, held in 1946, decided 
the winner of the NL pennant between the St. Louis Cardinals and the Brooklyn 
Dodgers, who had finished the season tied at 96–58.[6] The Cardinals won 
the series in two games and went on to win the 1946 World Series,[7] one 
of four tie-breaker winners who have gone on to win the World Series. Three 
tie-breaker games have gone into extra innings: the decisive second game 
of the 1959 series, the 2007 Wild Card tie-breaker, and the 2009 game.[8][9][10] 
The 2008 tie-breaker, which saw only one combined run score, was the lowest 
scoring game while the 2007 match-up with 17 total runs was the highest 
scoring. The Dodgers franchise has participated in five tie-breakers, twice 
while the team was based in Brooklyn and three times in Los Angeles, the 
most for any team. Dodger Stadium, Ebbets Field, Fenway Park, and the Polo 
Grounds are the only venues which have hosted multiple tie-breaker games 
(the Polo Grounds hosted two of the three games in the 1951 series). One 
notable moment in MLB tie-breaker history came in the final game of the 
1951 series. Entering the bottom of the ninth inning the New York Giants 
were trailing the Dodgers 4–1. Al Dark and Don Mueller each singled to 
put runners at the corners.[11] Whitey Lockman hit a double, scoring Dark 
to make the game 4–2. Finally, Bobby Thomson hit a walk-off home run which 
has come to be known as the "Shot Heard 'Round the World" to give the Giants 
the 5–4 victory and the National League pennant. ESPN's SportsCentury ranked 
