The Baltimore Orioles are a Major League Baseball franchise based in Baltimore, 
Maryland. They play in the American League East division, and were previously 
known in earlier years as the “Milwaukee Brewers” (1901) and “St. Louis 
Browns” (1902 to 1953)[1] pitchers for the Orioles have thrown nine no-hitters 
in franchise history.[2] A no-hitter is officially recognized by Major 
League Baseball only "when a pitcher (or pitchers) retires each batter 
on the opposing team during the entire course of a game, which consists 
of at least nine innings".[3] No-hitters of less than nine complete innings 
were previously recognized by the league as official; however, several 
rule alterations in 1991 changed the rule to its current form.[4] A no-hitter 
is rare enough that only one team in Major League Baseball has never had 
a pitcher accomplish the feat.[a] No perfect games, a special subcategory 
of no-hitter, have been thrown in Orioles history.[5] As defined by Major 
League Baseball, “in a perfect game, no batter reaches any base during 
the course of the game.”[3] Earl Hamilton threw the first no-hitter in 
Orioles history on August 30, 1912; the most recent no-hitter was a combined 
effort by Bob Milacki, Mike Flanagan, Mark Williamson and Gregg Olson on 
July 13, 1991.[5] No-hitters have been thrown by four left-handed starting 
pitchers and five right-handers. Seven no-hitters were thrown at home and 
two on the road. There have been two no-hitters in April, three in May, 
one in July, two in August, and one in September. The longest interval 
between no-hitters was 36 years from May 6, 1917 (Bob Groom) to May 6, 
1953 (Bobo Holloman). The shortest interval was one day, May 5, 1917 (Ernie 
Koob) to May 6, 1917 (Groom).[5] The franchise no-hit the Oakland Athletics 
(formerly “Philadelphia Athletics”) the most, three times, by Holloman 
in 1953, Jim Palmer in 1969, and a combined no-hitter by Milacki, Flanagan, 
Williamson, and Olson in 1991. In two no-hitters, the team allowed at least 
one run: by Hamilton in 1912 (which was a loss) and a combined no-hitter 
by Steve Barber and Stu Miller in 1967. The most baserunners allowed in 
a no-hitter was a combined no-no by Barber and Miller, who allowed 14 in 
a 2–1 loss to the Detroit Tigers in 1967. Of the nine no-hitters, two have 
been won by a score of 1–0 and two by a score of 6–0, more common than 
any other result. The largest margin of victory was an 8–0 win by Palmer 
in 1969. The smallest margin of victory was a 1–0 wins by Koob in 1917 
and Hoyt Wilhelm in 1958. The umpire is an integral part of any no-hitter. 
The umpire makes any decision “which involves judgment, such as, but not 
limited to, whether a batted ball is fair or foul, whether a pitch is a 
strike or a ball, or whether a runner is safe or out… [the umpire’s judgment 
on such matters] is final."[6] Part of the duties of the umpire making 
calls at home plate includes defining the strike zone, which "is defined 
as that area over homeplate (sic) the upper limit of which is a horizontal 
line at the midpoint between the top of the shoulders and the top of the 
uniform pants, and the lower level is a line at the hollow beneath the 
kneecap.”[6] These calls define every baseball game and are therefore integral 
to the completion of any no-hitter.[7] Eight different umpires presided 
over each of the franchise’s nine no-hitters. The manager is another integral 
part of a no-hitter. For every game, the manager determines the starting 
rotation (who pitches in each game) as well as the batting order and defensive 
lineup. A manager’s decisions can contribute to a no-hitter.[citation needed] 
Seven different managers have overseen the franchise’s nine no-hitters. 
