Professional sports teams based in Utah encompass multiple teams including 
the NBA's Utah Jazz and Major League Soccer's Real Salt Lake. Utah is the 
least populous U.S. state to have major professional sports league franchises.[citation 
needed] Utah has several minor league baseball teams. The Ogden Raptors 
(who play at Lindquist Field) and the Orem Owlz (who play at Brent Brown 
Ballpark) compete in the Pioneer League, which is a rookie league (the 
fifth and lowest level of the "affiliated minor leagues"—i.e., leagues 
that are part of Major League Baseball's official development system). 
The St. George RoadRunners play in the independent Golden Baseball League. 
The professionals sports team nicknames are often noted for the unusual 
frequency of the letter Z appearing in team nicknames (such as the Utah 
Jazz). This phenomenon reached the peak of its popularity during the 1990s; 
however, several Utah teams continue to make use of the letter Z. At least 
ten Utah-based professional sports franchises have used team names that 
include the letter Z, some of which are intentionally spelled incorrectly, 
using the Z unnecessarily or as a replacement for another letter. Commenting 
on the proliferation of such team names, New York Times sportswriter Alan 
Schwarz called Utah "the state where sports fans go to get their Z's."[1] 
The popularity of the Z in Utah sports was likely inspired in part by the 
unusual nickname of the Utah Jazz NBA team, which in 1979 relocated from 
New Orleans —which is noted for jazz music— to Salt Lake City, which is 
not. Up until the early 1990s, Utah's other professional teams used somewhat 
conventional nicknames (such as the Stars, Golden Eagles, and Trappers). 
With the arrival of the Salt Lake Buzz in 1994, the similarity of the nicknames 
"Buzz" and "Jazz" was unmistakable (although the name "Buzz" was really 
a play on the name of owner Joe Buzas, as well as a nod to Utah's "Beehive 
State" moniker).[2][3] The following year, the Utah Grizzlies minor league 
hockey team also entered the market. The announcement of the Utah Starzz 
WNBA franchise in 1996 cemented the state's propensity for using the letter 
Z in its team names. [4] The peculiar "Starzz" nickname was an homage to 
the Jazz (as well as to the old Utah Stars ABA team).[5] The precedent 
firmly set, several -zz teams entered the Utah market in subsequent years, 
to include the Utah Catzz, Utah Freezz, and Utah Blitzz. From 1994 to 1999, 
at least seven professional sports teams in the state adopted nicknames 
containing a double Z (see table below). All of these team names ended 
in -zz, except the Utah Grizzlies (which are also commonly called "the 
Grizz").[6] With the exception of the Jazz and Grizzlies, none of the -zz 
teams remain in Utah today, each having relocated, folded, or renamed the 
franchise. The Ogden Raptors (1994–present) were the only notable Utah 
pro franchise to forgo use of the letter Z when entering the Utah market 
during the 1990s. The Raptors offered this as a selling point, using the 
slogan "All the fun without the ZZs!"[7] Since 2000, new and renamed franchises 
have tended to steer away from the Z naming fad, opting instead for names 
such as Salt Lake Bees, Utah Flash and Real Salt Lake. However, the creation 
of the Orem Owlz in 2005 and the Utah Blaze in 2006 provide some indication 
