This is a list of metropolitan areas in the United States and Canada categorized 
by the number of major professional sports franchises in their metropolitan 
areas. The major professional sports leagues, or simply major leagues, 
in the United States and Canada are the highest professional competitions 
of team sports in the two countries. Although individual sports such as 
golf, tennis, and auto racing are also very popular, the term is usually 
limited to team sports. The term "major league" was first used in 1921 
in reference to Major League Baseball (MLB), the top level of professional 
American baseball. Today, the major northern North America professional 
team sports leagues are Major League Baseball (MLB), the National Basketball 
Association (NBA), the National Football League (NFL), and the National 
Hockey League (NHL).[1] These four leagues are also commonly referred to 
as the Big Four. Each of these is the richest professional club competition 
in its sport worldwide. The best players can become cultural icons in both 
countries and elsewhere in the world, because the leagues enjoy a significant 
place in popular culture in the U.S. and Canada. The NFL has 32 teams, 
and the others have 30 each. The vast majority of major league teams are 
concentrated in the most populous metropolitan areas of the United States. 
Baseball, football, and hockey have had professional leagues for over 100 
years; early leagues such as the National Association, Ohio League, and 
National Hockey Association formed the basis of the modern MLB, NFL and 
NHL respectively. Basketball is a relatively new development; the NBA evolved 
from the National Basketball League and its splinter group the Basketball 
Association of America, taking on its current form in 1949. Other notable 
leagues include Major League Soccer (MLS) and the Canadian Football League 
(CFL), both of which compare to the other four leagues in certain metrics 
but not in others. Every major league, including the CFL and MLS, draws 
15,000 or more fans in attendance per game on average as of 2015. Therefore, 
this list includes a ranking by teams in the Big Four (B4), and a separate 
ranking also including teams in the CFL and MLS, called the Big Six (B6). 
Though teams are listed here by metropolitan area, the distribution and 
support of teams within an area can reveal regional fractures below that 
level, whether by neighborhood, rival cities within a media market or separate 
markets entirely. Baseball teams provide illustrations for several of these 
models. In New York City, the Yankees are popularly dubbed the "Bronx Bombers" 
for their home borough and generally command the loyalties of fans from 
the Bronx, parts of Brooklyn, Staten Island, Manhattan, Long Island, parts 
of North Jersey and Westchester County, New York, while the Mets play in 
Queens and draw support from Queens, Brooklyn and parts of Long Island, 
revealing a split by neighborhood. The San Francisco Giants and Oakland 
Athletics represent rival cities within the Bay Area, a single media market. 
Though the Washington Nationals and Baltimore Orioles share a metro area, 
their cities anchor separate media markets and hold distinctly separate 
cultural identities. In Los Angeles, the Lakers and Clippers share an arena 
(Staples Center), and media coverage is split amongst different broadcasters 
in the metro area. The largest metropolitan area without one of the Big 
Four teams is Austin, which is the 39th largest market in Northern America. 
The smallest to have one of the Big Four is Green Bay as the 146th largest 
metropolitan area, though much of its fan base is drawn from 120 mile away 
Milwaukee, the 35th largest. The smallest stand-alone metropolitan area 
to have one of the Big Four is 78th-largest Winnipeg (Jets, NHL), while 
54th-largest New Orleans is the smallest to have more than one (New Orleans 
Pelicans and New Orleans Saints). Foxboro, Massachusetts, population 16,685 
as of the 2010 Census, is a small town which hosts two major-league teams 
(the New England Patriots and the New England Revolution.) Foxboro is considered 
part of the Boston metropolitan area even though it is actually slightly 
closer to Providence, Rhode Island. The following list contains all urban 
areas in the United States and Canada containing at least one team in any 
of the six major leagues. The table contains the population rank based 
on their urban population as compiled by Demographia,[2] the number of 
teams in the big four leagues (B4) and the big six leagues (B6), and the 
city's teams in the National Football League (NFL),[3] Major League Baseball 
(MLB),[4] the National Basketball Association (NBA),[5] the National Hockey 
League (NHL),[6] Major League Soccer (MLS)[7] and the Canadian Football 
League (CFL).[8] The number of Big Six teams based on their home state 
is shown in the map below: The number of Big Six teams based on their home 
