The New York Yankees are a Major League Baseball franchise based in the 
New York City borough of The Bronx. Also known in their early years as 
the "Baltimore Orioles" (1901–02) and the "New York Highlanders" (1903–12),[1] 
the Yankees have had ten pitchers throw eleven no-hitters in franchise 
history. A no-hitter is officially recognized by Major League Baseball 
only "...when a pitcher (or pitchers) allows no hits during the entire 
course of a game, which consists of at least nine innings. In a no-hit 
game, a batter may reach base via a walk, an error, a hit by pitch, a passed 
ball or wild pitch on strike three, or catcher's interference".[2] No-hitters 
of less than nine complete innings were previously recognized by the league 
as official; however, several rule alterations in 1991 changed the rule 
to its current form.[3] A no-hitter is rare enough that the San Diego Padres 
have never had a pitcher accomplish the feat.[a] Three perfect games, a 
special subcategory of no-hitter, have been pitched in Yankees history. 
As defined by Major League Baseball, "in a perfect game, no batter reaches 
any base during the course of the game."[2] This feat was achieved by Don 
Larsen in 1956, David Wells in 1998, and David Cone in 1999. Wells later 
claimed he was a "little hung-over" while throwing his perfect game.[4] 
Ironically, given the Yankees' celebrated history, none of the eleven pitchers 
who tossed no-hitters for the franchise is in the Baseball Hall of Fame. 
George Mogridge threw the first no-hitter in Yankees history, beating their 
rival Boston Red Sox 2–1, their only no-hitter in which the opposition 
scored. Their most recent no-hitter was David Cone's perfect game in 1999, 
the seventh Yankees no-hitter thrown by a right-handed pitcher and their 
third perfect game. The Yankees' first perfect game was also thrown by 
a right-handed pitcher, Don Larsen, and came in Game 5 of the 1956 World 
Series. Larsen's perfect game was the only no-hitter in MLB postseason 
play until Roy Halladay of the Philadelphia Phillies pitched a no-hitter 
in Game 1 of the 2010 National League Division Series. Coincidentally, 
Cone's perfect game came on "Yogi Berra Day" at Yankee Stadium. Berra had 
caught Larsen's perfect game and both he and Larsen were in the stands 
for the game.[5] Of the eleven no-hitters pitched by Yankees players, three 
each have been won by the scores 4–0 and 2–0, more common than any other 
result. The largest margin of victory in a Yankees no-hitter was 13 runs, 
in a 13–0 win by Monte Pearson. Andy Hawkins lost a game on July 1, 1990 
to the Chicago White Sox while on the road by the score of 4–0 without 
allowing a hit.[6] Because the White Sox were winning entering the ninth 
inning at home, they did not bat, and thus Hawkins pitched only 8 innings,[6] 
but the game was considered a no-hitter at the time.[7] However, following 
rules changes in 1991, the game is no longer counted as a no-hitter.[4] 
Additionally, Tom L. Hughes held the Cleveland Indians without a hit through 
the first nine innings of a game on August 6, 1910 but the game went into 
extra innings and he lost the no-hitter in the tenth inning and ultimately 
lost the game 5–0.[8] The longest interval between Yankees no-hitters was 
between the game pitched by Larsen on October 8, 1956 and Dave Righetti's 
no hitter on July 4, 1983, encompassing 26 years, 8 months, and 26 days. 
The shortest gap between such games fell between Allie Reynolds' two no-hitters 
in 1951, a gap of just 2 months and 16 days from July 12 till September 
28. Reynolds is the only Yankees pitcher to throw multiple no-hitters in 
his career, and one of only six pitchers in Major League history to throw 
multiple no-hitters in a season along with Max Scherzer in 2015, Roy Halladay 
in 2010, Nolan Ryan in 1973, Virgil Trucks in 1952, and Johnny Vander Meer 
in 1938.[9] The Red Sox and the Cleveland Indians have been no-hit by the 
Yankees more than any other franchise, each doing so three times. Notably, 
Reynolds' two no-hit victims in 1951 were the Red Sox and the Indians. 
The umpire is also an integral part of any no-hitter. The task of the umpire 
in a baseball game is to make any decision "which involves judgment, such 
as, but not limited to, whether a batted ball is fair or foul, whether 
a pitch is a strike or a ball, or whether a runner is safe or out... [the 
umpire's judgment on such matters] is final."[10] Part of the duties of 
the umpire making calls at home plate includes defining the strike zone, 
which "is defined as that area over homeplate (sic) the upper limit of 
which is a horizontal line at the midpoint between the top of the shoulders 
and the top of the uniform pants, and the lower level is a line at the 
hollow beneath the kneecap."[10] These calls define every baseball game 
and are therefore integral to the completion of any no-hitter. No umpire 
has called multiple Yankee no-hitters. Bill Dinneen, the umpire who called 
Sad Sam Jones' 1923 no-hitter, is the only person in MLB history to both 
pitch (for the Red Sox in 1905) and umpire (five total, including Jones') 
a no-hitter.[11] The plate umpire for Larsen's perfect game, Babe Pinelli, 
apocryphally "retired" after that game, but that is mere legend; in reality, 
since Larsen's perfecto was only Game 5 of the seven-game Series, Pinelli 
didn't officially retire until two days later, concluding his distinguished 
umpiring career at second base during Game 7, not at home plate during 
