This is an alphabetical list of selected unofficial and specialized terms, 
phrases, and other jargon used in baseball, and their definitions, including 
illustrative examples for many entries. ("0-0", "0-1" "1–0", "0–2", "1–1", 
"2–0", "1–2", "2–1", "3–0", "2–2", "3–1", "3–2") The possible instances 
of the "count", the number of balls and strikes currently tallied against 
a batter. Traditionally, the first number in the count corresponds to balls, 
and the second, strikes; however, Japanese and Korean baseball leagues 
use the opposite order (strikes followed by balls). The latter practice, 
however, has given way to the more traditional ball/strike counts in both 
broadcast and stadium references, as events such as the Asia Series now 
feature countries (Taiwan, Australia, Europe) where the ball count is announced 
before strike count. Colloquial term for the 1919 Chicago White Sox, of 
which eight players were accused of conspiring to lose the World Series, 
and were subsequently banned from baseball for life. 'Roll a bump' is a 
colloquial east coast slang for turning a 1-6-3 double play or a 1-4-3 
double play. A tongue-in-cheek expression used to refer to players who 
had successful careers, but whose stats and/or overall performance are 
not good enough to put them into consideration for the Hall of Fame. Example 
of players said to be in the "Hall of Very Good" are Chris Carpenter,[133] 
Lee Smith, and Mark McGwire.[134] Said of a team when it scores eight runs 
in one inning. Broadcaster Eric Nadel used this term on 8 August 2015 when 
the Texas Rangers sent eight men across home plate in the 11th inning, 
defeating the Seattle Mariners 11-3. May also be used when a team gets 
the opposing pitcher charged with eight runs over one inning or a series 
of innings. a person who hits a ball with a bat in baseball. "Unfortunately 
for his personal power totals, Milledge was bamboozled into believing his 
liner in the fourth inning against the Chicago Cubs on Thursday night had 
cleared the left-field fence at PNC Park for his first career grand slam. 
Dead certain he had gone deep, Milledge raised his fist rounding first 
base, put his head down and went into a trot. Cool. Double-dog certain 
because the fireworks guy at PNC set off the pyrotechnics that explode 
every time a Bucs player goes deep. Music also began to blare. What a glorious 
moment for the Bucs! . . . Only, the ball had not cleared the fence. It 
hit the top and stayed in the field of play. As Bucs announcer Bob Walk 
said, 'Uh oh, uh oh, uh oh, uh oh — we got a problem here.' Milledge was 
not quite midway between second and third base when he realized the Cubs 
had him in a rundown. And, yeah, um, he was tagged out. Score that a two-run 
double and a big ol' base-running blunder."[154] Inherited runners or inherited 
baserunners are the runners on base when a relief pitcher enters the game. 
Since a previous pitcher has allowed these runners to reach base (or was 
simply pitching when the runners reached base, such as in the case of a 
fielding error), any inherited runners who score when the relief pitcher 
is pitching are charged to the previous pitcher's runs allowed and/or earned 
runs allowed total, depending on how each runner reached base. Modern box 
scores list how many runners each relief pitcher inherits (if any), and 
how many of those inherited runners the relief pitcher allows to score, 
called inherited runs allowed. "The success of most pitchers is based on 
statistics such as won-loss record, ERA or saves, but the unsung "innings 
eater" is judged by how many innings he pitches and the impact his work 
has on the rest of the staff. "'I don't have a whole lot of goals going 
into the season. I don't shoot for a certain ERA or a certain strikeout 
number or certain number of wins', says Blanton, entering his second full 
season. 'I try to go out and get a quality start every time, six innings 
or more, and not miss any starts. I feel if I can do that, I'll get my 
200 innings in a year and everything else falls into place with that' ".[159] 
National Association. This may refer to the A brand new baseball. They 
are either of the two areas in the outfield between the outfielders, i.e. 
left-center field and right-center field. The furthest dimensions may not 
be marked on the wall. A prep player is a draft prospect who is still in 
high school. E.g., "Nationals select prep right-hander Lucas Giolito 16th 
overall."[23] "It's a great way to get a fastball", Krukow said. "Pitchers 
are always taught that the fastball high is the hardest one to bunt. You 
show bunt on the first pitch and a pitcher often-times will come back on 
a 1-0 count and he'll give you a fastball. Bruce Bochy knows this, lets 
him swing away and (Sanchez) finds a hole".[62] An easy-to-hit ball thrown 
by a pitcher to a batter who has fouled off many balls in that particular 
at-bat, so risking an excessive pitch count. While the likelihood of an 
extra-base hit is high, there is also a chance that the batter will strike 
out or put the ball in play where it can be fielded. Either way, a show-me 
pitch usually finishes the at-bat quickly. An extra-base hit in which the 
runner reaches base easily without needing to slide; that is, he remains 
