The Little League World Series is broadcast on television by ABC and ESPN, 
along with their family of networks. They also televise the regional championships, 
which precede the Little League World Series. The ABC television network 
began televising a tape-delayed Little League World Series Championship 
Game on an annual basis in 1962.[1][2] From 1965 to 1985, the championship 
game was broadcast during the weekend, airing under ABC's Wide World of 
Sports umbrella. In 1982, Entertainment and Sports Programming Network 
(ESPN) began expanding their cable television network through increased 
coverage of sports entertainment on a global scale. During this time, ESPN's 
brand and its family of networks, began covering the Little League World 
Series games in a greater capacity. A total of 12 games were televised 
by the network in 2000, resulting in nationwide popularity of the game, 
which provided opportunities to expand the total number of teams from eight 
to 16.[citation needed] In 2001, ESPN covered all eight U.S. regional championships. 
This was as a result of a second stadium, Volunteer Stadium, which allowed 
games to take place simultaneously[citation needed]. Also that year, ABC 
began televising the U.S. Championship Game. That year, ESPN aired a total 
of 25 games. In 2003, ABC, ESPN, and ESPN2 carried a total of 35 games 
including regional championships.[3][4] All games aired on any ESPN network 
are also available via Internet streaming on ESPN3. One of the most prominent 
announcers was Harold Reynolds. Former major league baseball player and 
color commentator Tony Gwynn referred to him as "the Pied Piper of Little 
League baseball."[5] Some of the game broadcasters and play-by-play commentators 
have included sportscasters Al Michaels and Brent Musburger, American sports 
journalist Jim McKay, and former major league baseball players Cy Young 
Award and World Series MVP Orel Hershiser, and Hall of Fame baseball players 
Johnny Bench, Mickey Mantle and Jim Palmer. The Poynter Institute was hired 
by ESPN to write about their programming, from an outsider's perspective. 
This blog became known as The Poynter Review Project. The report concludes 
that the Little League World Series is a good thing for ESPN, fans, and 
the players.[6] The Poynter Review Project stated that there was no reason 
for ESPN to shy away from the fact that the kids were crying. The project 
maintained that crying is actually a healthy emotion, and one that boys 
at this age should feel comfortable expressing. Adults should use those 
opportunities to reinforce that these emotions are normal and healthy responses 
to such a moment of either disappointment or achievement. Furthermore, 
the project asserted that not crying during such moments is actually an 
unhealthy response. The project also found no evidence that these boys 
develop mental health issues later on in life as a result of playing in 
this tournament, maintaining a variety of reasons to enjoy watching these 
young athletes compete at the highest level. ESPN has now gone away from 
trying to show kids crying due to the previous criticism they received 
from viewers. While there has been documented successes of the Little Leagues 
World Series, there have also been detractors of the sports program that 
believe that there is too much exposure for the Little League World Series, 
especially the effect it has on the participants. ESPN's Tim Scanlon defended 
the network's coverage, "We're not trying to hide or patronize the coverage... 
but you don't want to sensationalize those moments. It's about the experience 
and the competition. It's pure. It's almost innocent."[7] Bill Plaschke 
is a Los Angeles Times sports writer who also contributes to ESPN from 
time to time. He has written an article about the exploitation witnessed 
during a televised game of the Little League World Series. He describes 
in detail situations, such as children pouting in an attempt to hold themselves 
together in tough situations, parents yelling at the players, all which 
is aired in what can be perceived as an exploitation of their situations, 
for which there are many examples of in television. Plaschke says the blame 
is not on the networks, but on the Little League itself because if ESPN 
or ABC did not show the games then some other network would. Plaschke also 
said we just don't need to see it, and they don't need us to see it. Cameras 
do not help already tense situations, arbitrarily deter from what matters, 
and unjustly exploit. The cameras change everything for kids who just aren't 
ready for it. He brings up the point that no other league exploits their 
kids at such an early age. Most of these kids are between the age of 11-12. 
The earliest you see football and basketball stars are High school, and 
you cannot see hockey stars till college. A lot of this may have to do 
with popularity, and money, but that is why Plaschke blames the League 
the most for this.[8] The pressures of these kids mirror those of a major 
league baseball team on any given day. On most days these kids are playing 
in front of crowds of 45,000 people who are hanging onto their every pitch. 
This is more fans than some major league teams can only dream about having 
in their own stadiums. Most of the star pitchers are throwing about 200 
pitches on short rest which is something that you will never even see anymore 
in the major leagues.[9] The pressure is not limited to the fans at the 
park. According to Biz of Baseball the 2009 had 1.56 million viewers. This 
