Little Neck is an upper middle class neighborhood of Queens, New York City, 
bordered on the north by Little Neck Bay and on the east by Great Neck 
in Nassau County. Due to this proximity to Nassau, Little Neck remains 
one of the most suburban-looking areas in New York City. The southern border 
is the Grand Central Parkway, and to the west is Douglaston. The Little 
Neck station is the easternmost New York City station on the busy Port 
Washington Branch of the Long Island Rail Road (LIRR), and thus Little 
Neck is home to the busiest of approximately a dozen remaining railway 
grade crossings in New York City.[1] The neighborhood is part of Queens 
Community Board 11.[2] Prior to the mid-1600s, the Matinecock lived in 
what is today considered Little Neck, sustained by the seafood in Little 
Neck Bay.[3] In the 17th century, European settlers began arriving in the 
area for its conveniently located harbor. Soon after, the British and Dutch 
gained control of the Matinecock lands peacefully, except for a small area 
known as Madnan's Neck (possibly a shortened form of Indian name for the 
area, Menhaden-ock, or "place of fish").[4] Thomas Hicks, of the Hicks 
family that eventually founded Hicksville, and a band of armed settlers 
forcibly drove out the Matinecock in a battle at today's Northern Boulevard 
and Marathon Parkway.[5] An old Matinecock cemetery remained in Little 
Neck on Northern Boulevard between Cornell Lane and Jesse Court. One of 
the last photographs of the cemetery (available online) was taken by the 
Daily News in August 1931, a few months before it was removed to make room 
for a widened Northern Boulevard.[6] The remains from the cemetery were 
moved to the Zion Episcopal Church of Douglaston and placed under a stone 
marker that reads "Here rest the last of the Matinecoc."[7] The settlers 
thrived producing produce for the Manhattan market and the area was used 
as a dock on Little Neck Bay. As the population of Little Neck and New 
York in general began to grow, the Little Neck Long Island Rail Road station 
was opened in 1866 on the Port Washington Branch to serve the community 
and the dock area.[8] Northern Boulevard was developed into a commercial 
and cultural hub, and the Little Neck Theater, a 576-seat movie theater, 
was opened in 1929 at the intersection of Northern Boulevard and Morgan 
Street.[9][10] The theater was closed in 1983.[11] From the 1860s through 
the 1890s, small hard clams (quahogs) from Little Neck Bay were served 
in the best restaurants of New York and several European capitals.[12] 
Eventually, the term "littleneck" or "littleneck clam" came to be used 
as a size category for all hard clams, regardless of origin.[13][14] Little 
Neck is part of the New York City Department of Education's district 26, 
the highest performing school district for grades K-9 in all of New York 
City. The district includes 20 elementary schools and 5 middle schools.[15] 
Little Neck is home to PS 94 David D. Porter, PS 221 North Hills, and PS 
811 (a multiple handicap school, formerly known as PS 187, or the Marathon 
School). It is also home to Louis Pasteur Middle School 67Q, which serves 
about 900 students. Coordinates: 40°45′43.14″N 73°44′17.58″W﻿ / ﻿40.7619833°N 
