The Little League Baseball World Series is an annual baseball tournament 
for children aged 11 to 13 years old. [1] It was originally called the 
National Little League Tournament and was later renamed for the World Series 
in Major League Baseball. The Series was first held in 1947 and is held 
every August in South Williamsport, Pennsylvania, in the United States.[2] 
(Although the postal address of the organization is in Williamsport, the 
Series itself is played at Howard J. Lamade Stadium and Volunteer Stadium 
at the Little League headquarters complex in South Williamsport.) Initially, 
only teams from the US competed in the Series but it has since become a 
worldwide tournament. The tournament has gained popular renown, especially 
in the United States, where games from the Series and even from regional 
tournaments are broadcast on ESPN. In 2006, the age limit was changed to 
include players who turn 13 after April 30 of the same year, rather than 
after July 31, as had previously been the case. As the Series takes place 
in August, many of the players will have already turned 13 before the Series 
starts. Effective November, 2015, a new implementation plan was established, 
which "grandfathers" players born between May 1 and August 31, 2005 as 
12-year-olds for the 2016, 2017 and 2018 seasons, using the current April 
30 age determination date for the 2016, 2017, and 2018 seasons. Beginning 
with 2019, a new determination date of August 31 will be used, which will 
ban 13 year old players from participating in the Series. While the Little 
League Baseball World Series is frequently referred to as just the Little 
League World Series, it is actually one of twelve tournaments sponsored 
by Little League International, in twelve different locations. Each of 
them brings community teams from different Little League International 
regions around the world together in baseball (five age divisions), girls' 
softball (four age divisions), and boys' softball (three divisions). The 
tournament structure described here is that used for the Little League 
Baseball World Series. The structure used for the other World Series is 
similar, but with different regions. In the summer months leading up to 
the Little League World Series, held each year in August, Little Leagues 
around the world select an All-Star team made up of players from its league. 
It is these All-Star teams that compete in district, sectional and/or divisional, 
and regional tournaments,[citation needed] hoping to advance to Williamsport 
for the Little League World Series. How many games a team has to play varies 
from region to region. In the United States, the tournaments at the lowest 
(district) level lack nationwide standardization. Some use pool play or 
double elimination, while others use single elimination. In the United 
States, the fate of district winners varies widely from state to state. 
In some larger states such as Pennsylvania, New York, and California, the 
district winners advance to one of many sectional tournaments. The winners 
of each sectional tournament then advance to a state or divisional tournament, 
the latter only being held in Texas and California and are similar to the 
state tournaments held in less densely populated states. Most smaller states 
lack competition at the sectional level and go straight from district to 
state tournaments. A handful of states are composed of only one district, 
and the district champion is the automatic state champion. With 4 exceptions, 
every state as well as the District of Columbia crowns a state champion,[3] 
and sends that team to represent it to one of eight regional tournaments. 
The exceptions involve California, Texas, North Dakota, and South Dakota. 
Because of their large geographic and population sizes, California and 
Texas send two representatives to their regional tournament; Northern California 
and Southern California in the West region tournament and Texas East and 
Texas West (whose areas encompass more than the geographical areas of East 
Texas and West Texas, splitting roughly along the I-35/I-37 corridor) compete 
in the Southwest region tournament. Conversely, North Dakota has only one 
city (Fargo) that operates Little League-sponsored competitions; the Dakotas 
have one district spanning the two states, and its winner becomes the joint 
champion and advances to the Midwest region tournament. The state champions 
(as well as the Northern California, Southern California, Texas East, Texas 
West, and Dakotas champions) compete in one of eight different regional 
tournaments. Each regional tournament winner then advances to the Little 
League World Series. See [4] for a comprehensive breakdown of current and 
historical US regional tournament locations, participants and results. 
Other countries and regions pick their own way of crowning a champion. 
Little League Canada holds tournaments at the provincial and regional level 
to field five champions at the national tournament: Alberta, Ontario, Quebec, 
British Columbia, the Atlantic Provinces, and the Prairie Provinces. The 
host site of the national tournament varies from year to year, and the 
host team gets an automatic berth as the seventh team. The tournament is 
played as a round robin and uses the page playoff format. The winner of 
the national tournament earns the right to represent Canada at the Little 
League World Series. The Little League World Series consists of 16 teams–8 
from the United States, and 8 from other countries. Prior to 2001 there 
were eight teams in the LLWS: four U.S. teams (Central, South, East, and 
West) and four international (Canada, Latin America, Europe, and the Far 
East). It should be noted that in 1975 there were only four teams in the 
LLWS, all from the United States. The international teams returned in 1976. 
From 2001 to 2009, the 16 teams were divided into two brackets, the United 
States Bracket and the International Bracket. Each team was then randomly 
assigned to one of two "pools" in their respective bracket. In the opening 
days of the tournament, the teams competed round-robin within their own 
pool. The top two teams in each pool advanced to the semifinal of their 
bracket, where the first place team from one pool competed against the 
second place team from the other. The respective winners advanced to play 
in either the United States or International Final. The U.S. champion and 
the International champion advanced to compete in the Little League World 
Series Championship Game. On April 14, 2010, Little League announced that 
starting in 2010, round robin play would be replaced by a double-elimination 
bracket in each pool. The winners of each pool would advance to single 
elimination US and International Championship games, and the winners of 
those games would advance to the World Championship game. Every team would 
play a minimum of three games: the four teams that lost their first two 
games would cross over and play U.S. vs. International games.[4] On June 
16, 2011, it was announced that the double-elimination format had been 
modified. The pools were eliminated in favor of placing the eight U.S. 
teams in one bracket, and the eight International teams in another bracket. 
The tournament remains double-elimination until the U.S. and International 
Championship games, where it becomes single-elimination. (That is, if the 
team that advances through the winner's bracket loses the championship 
game they are eliminated and the teams do not play a rubber game.) Each 
team still plays a minimum of three games, playing a "crossover" (U.S. 
vs. International) consolation game if eliminated after their second game.[5][6] 
The eight regional tournament winners which compete in the United States 
Bracket of the Little League World Series, as well as the states those 
regional champions could possibly hail from are as follows: The eight divisions 
which compete in the International Bracket are as follows: The eight divisions 
which compete in the United States bracket represent 96% of the players 
in Little League with over 2.2 million players while the eight divisions 
in the International bracket represent 4% of the Little League or less 
than 130 thousand players. Prior to 2008, instead of two separate geographic 
regions, Europe, the Middle East, and Africa held two coterminous regions:[7] 
The Transatlantic and EMEA regions were geographically identical. Leagues 
from the Transatlantic region generally consisted of children and other 
dependents of American expatriates, typically Armed Forces personnel, international 
organization members, and oil company workers (such as the team representing 
the Saudi Aramco Residential Camp in Dhahran, which advanced to the World 
Series 19 times through 2007, including all the tournaments from 2001 through 
2007). The leagues within the "EMEA" region consisted of players native 
to the league's own country. Representative teams for the Trans-Atlantic 
region had to have at least 51% nationals of Canada, the U.S. or Japan, 
while teams for the EMEA region could have no more than three players from 
those three countries. Teams in the reorganized Europe and MEA regions 
did not have nationality restrictions, as evidenced by the 2009 series. 
In that year, both regions were won by teams made up primarily of children 
of American expatriates. Europe was represented by a team from Ramstein 
Air Base, a United States Air Force base in Germany, while MEA was represented 
for the second time in its two-year existence by the team from the Saudi 
Aramco camp. On August 29, 2012, Little League announced a significant 
realignment of the international regions, which took effect in 2013:[8] 
Two venues host World Series games: Howard J. Lamade Stadium and Little 
League Volunteer Stadium. Lamade Stadium has hosted games since 1959, while 
Little League Volunteer Stadium opened in 2001 when the field expanded 
to 16 teams. Prior to 1959 the Little League World Series was held at Original 
Little League on West Fourth Street in Williamsport.[9] Both fields have 
symmetrical fences, with a distance of 68.6 m (225 feet) from home plate 
to each of the outfield positions. That distance had been 62.5 m (205 feet) 
before 2006. Admission to all LLWS games is free for all spectators. However, 
stadium seats for the championship game are distributed in a random drawing 
of all interested parties due to high demand. Some early round games, mostly 
games with Pennsylvania teams, will use first-come, first-served admission 
if a big crowd is to be expected.[10] Lamade Stadium has a berm beyond 
the fences that has allowed the facility to hold up to 45,000 spectators. 
Gavin Cecchini - MLB Player NY Mets ( 2006 Little League World Series ) 
( Lake Charles , Louisiana The first broadcast of the Little League World 
Series on television was on ABC Sports (now ESPN on ABC) in 1963. For years, 
only the championship game was televised. Since the late 1980s, when the 
tournament was reorganized, both the U.S. and international championships, 
the "semifinals", have been shown. As the years passed, more telecasts 
were added on ABC, ESPN, and ESPN2. In 2006, 28 of the 36 games were televised 
on the three networks. The 2006 world championship game was to be the last 
telecast on ABC Sports before ESPN's complete takeover of the sports division 
and name change. However, the final was postponed one day because of rain 
and was shown by ESPN2. In January 2007, it was announced that ESPN, ESPN2, 
and ABC had extended their contract with the Little League organization 
through 2014.[15] That year, every game of the LLWS was scheduled to be 
televised for the first time, with all but one game live on ESPN, ESPN2, 
or ABC. (The other game was to be available online at ESPN360, then shown 
on ESPN2 the next day.)[16] In addition, a number of games were to be shown 
in high-definition on one of ESPN's two dedicated HD channels, or on ABC 
HD. The championship games in all other divisions, as well as the semifinals 
and finals of the Little League Softball World Series, was scheduled for 
either ESPN, ESPN2 or ESPNU. In June 2011, it was announced that ESPN would 
add 17 games to its schedule on ESPN 3D.[17] Coverage of the qualifying 
games has increased in the US recently: as of 2014, all regional group 
games (with the exception of the Southwest and New England regions) are 
streamed online via the ESPN3 platform, with the semifinals joining the 
finals on an ESPN network. The aforementioned Southwest and New England 
regional games are aired in full on the Longhorn Network (itself owned 
by ESPN) and NESN, respectively. The increased level of participation, 
competition, and publicity of the Little League World Series in recent 
years has established a trend in the opposite direction of most other preteen 
sports. Most LLWS games are broadcast live on local radio station WRAK 
1400AM, which is owned by Clear Channel. The radio broadcasts are also 
streamed online at the LLWS page at littleleague.org. Each of the other 
eleven divisions of Little League Baseball has its own World Series format 
