The Australia Region of Little League Baseball is a region designated for 
the Little League World Series. The division was founded in 2013 when Little 
League officially separated Australia from the Asia-Pacific region. This 
followed a period of explosive growth in youth baseball in the country; 
the first Little League-affiliated leagues in Australia were only established 
in 2007, but within five years, nearly 400 Little Leagues were operating, 
making Australia the largest country outside North America in Little League 
participation. In the Little League World Series in 2013, a team from Perth, 
Western Australia qualified to represent Australia in its debut as a country. 
The Perth Central club went through the qualification series held on the 
Gold Coast undefeated, defeating Adelaide South in the final. However the 
club failed to win any games in Williamsport, losing to Mexico 12–0 in 
four innings under the mercy rule, and then to Puerto Rico 4–0 in the loser's 
bracket. In 2014, Australia were again represented by a team from Perth. 
This time the Perth Metro North club qualified in the series held also 
on the Gold Coast, defeating Manly in the final. The team met Puerto Rico 
in the opening match and again the mercy rule was applied in the fourth 
inning 16–3. However, in this game, they scored the first runs by an Australian 
team in LLWS history with an RBI in the third inning. Australia then went 
to the loser's bracket and won as a nation for the first time in Williamsport, 
defeating a team from the Czech Republic 10–1. Javier Pelkonnen became 
the first Australian player to hit a home run in the Little League World 
Series in this game. Their run was cut short when the team from Mexico 
eliminated Australia from the series 6–2. In 2015, Australia were represented 
by a team from Sydney. Cronulla qualified in the series held in Lismore, 
New South Wales, defeating Swan Hills in the final. Their first opponent 
at Williamsport were Venezuela, who defeated Australia 5-2. This was the 
first time in the opening match that the mercy rule had not been applied 
against the Australians. In the loser's bracket Australia defeated the 
Dominican Republic 3-0, but then ran into Mexico who eliminated Australia 
from the series 14-3 under the mercy rule. Since 2013 As of the 2016 Little 
