Little League Baseball and Softball (officially, Little League International) 
is a non-profit organization based in South Williamsport, Pennsylvania, 
United States, which organizes local youth baseball and softball leagues 
throughout the U.S. and the rest of the world. Founded by Carl Stotz in 
1939 as a three-team league in Williamsport, Pennsylvania, Little League 
Baseball encourages local volunteers to organize and operate Little League 
programs that are annually chartered through Little League International. 
Each league can structure itself to best serve the children in the area 
in which the league operates. Several specific divisions of Little League 
baseball and softball are available to children ages 4 to 16. The organization 
holds a congressional charter under Title 36 of the United States Code.[1] 
The organization's administrative office is located in South Williamsport, 
Pennsylvania. The first Little League Baseball World Series was played 
in Williamsport in 1947. The Little League International Complex hosts 
the annual Little League Baseball World Series at Howard J. Lamade Stadium 
and Little League Volunteer Stadium, and is also the site of the Peter 
J. McGovern Little League Museum, which provides a history of Little League 
Baseball and Softball through interactive exhibits for children. Some MLB 
players played in Little League. Carl Stotz, a resident of Williamsport, 
Pennsylvania, founded Little League Baseball in 1939. He began experimenting 
with his idea in the summer of 1938 when he gathered his nephews, Jimmy 
and Major Gehron and their neighborhood friends. They tried different field 
dimensions over the course of the summer and played several informal games. 
The following summer Stotz felt that he was ready to establish what later 
became Little League Baseball. The first league in Williamsport had just 
three teams, each sponsored by a different business. The first teams, Jumbo 
Pretzel, Lycoming Dairy, and Lundy Lumber, were managed by Carl Stotz and 
two of his friends, George and Bert Bebble. The men, joined by their wives 
and another couple, formed the first-ever Little League Board of Directors.[2] 
The first League game took place on June 6, 1939. Lardy Lumber defeated 
Lycoming Dairy, 23-8. Lycoming Dairy came back to claim the league championship. 
They, the first-half-season champions, defeated Lundy Lumber, the second-half 
champs, in a best-of-three season-ending series. The following year a second 
league was formed in Williamsport, and from there Little League Baseball 
grew to become an international organization of nearly 200,000 teams in 
every U.S. state and over 80 countries around the world.[2] From 1951 through 
1973, Little League was for boys only. In 1974, Little League rules were 
revised to allow participation by girls in the baseball program following 
the result of a lawsuit filed by the National Organization for Women on 
behalf of Maria Pepe.[3][4] According to the Little League Baseball and 
Softball participation statistics following the 2008 season, there were 
nearly 2.6 million players in Little League Baseball worldwide, including 
both boys and girls, including 400,000 registered in softball (also including 
both boys and girls). For tournament purposes, Little League Baseball is 
divided into 16 geographic regions; eight National and eight international. 
Each summer, Little League operates seven World Series tournaments at various 
locations throughout the U.S. (Little League softball and Junior, Senior, 
and Big League baseball and softball). 1939: Little League is established 
by Carl E. Stotz. The first season is played in a lot close to Bowman Field. 
Lycoming Dairy is the first season champion.[2] 1946: Little League has 
expanded to 12 leagues, all in Pennsylvania.[2] 1947: The first league 
outside of Pennsylvania is founded in Hammonton, New Jersey. Maynard League 
of Williamsport defeats a team from Lock Haven, Pennsylvania to win the 
first Little League World Series. Allen Yearick is the first Little League 
graduate to play professional baseball when he is signed by the Boston 
Braves.[2] 1948: Little League has grown to include 94 leagues. Lock Haven 
returns to the Little League World Series and defeats a league from St. 
Petersburg, Florida. The first corporate sponsor, U.S. Rubber, is announced,[2] 
who donate Pro-Keds shoes to teams at the Little League World Series.[5] 
1949: Little League is featured in the Saturday Evening Post and on newsreels. 
Carl Stotz gets hundreds of requests for information on how to form leagues 
at the local level from all over the United States. Little League incorporates 
in New York.[2] 1950: Kathryn Johnston became the first girl to play Little 
League baseball in 1950, when she tucked her hair under her hat, adopted 
the nickname "Tubby", and joined the Kings Dairy Little League team in 
Corning, N.Y., posing as a boy.[6] After a few weeks, she told her coach 
she was a girl, but he said "That's O.K., you're a darned good player." 
Kathryn played at first base for the season, but then had to stop because 
of her age (she turned 13.) After that, a rule known as the Tubby Rule 
prohibited girls from playing in Little League; this was in force until 
1974.[7] 1951: Leagues are formed in British Columbia, Canada and near 
the Panama Canal making them the first leagues outside the United States.[2] 
1953: The Little League World Series is televised for the first time. Jim 
McKay provides the play by play for CBS. Howard Cosell provides play by 
play for ABC Radio. Joey Jay of Middletown, Connecticut and the Milwaukee 
Braves is the first Little League graduate to play in the Major Leagues.[2] 
1954: Boog Powell, who later played for the Baltimore Orioles plays in 
the Little League World Series for Lakeland, Florida. Ken Hubbs, who later 
played for the Chicago Cubs, plays in the Little League World Series for 
Colton, California. Little League has expanded to more than 3,300 leagues.[2] 
Jim Barberi who later played for the Los Angeles Dodgers and in a Major 
League World Series was also a member of the Schenectady, New York team 
who won the 1954 Series.[citation needed] 1955: There is a Little League 
organization in each of the 48 U.S. States. George W. Bush begins playing 
Little League as a catcher for the Cubs of the Central Little League in 
Midland, Texas. He is the first Little League graduate to be elected President 
of the United States.[2] The all-black Cannon Street YMCA All-Stars in 
Charleston, South Carolina created an uproar that every other Little League 
organization in South Carolina refused to play Cannon Street. Little League 
sent an ultimatum that the team be able to play, which the other leagues 
refused, where the other 61 organizations returned their charters and formed 
their own league in response. No team from the state had made the tournament 
until 2015.[citation needed] 1956: Carl Stotz severs his ties with Little 
League Baseball in a dispute over the direction and control of Little League. 
Stotz believed the league was becoming over-commercialized by Little League 
president, Peter J. McGovern.[8] Stotz remains active in youth baseball 
with the "Original League" in Williamsport.[2] Little League records its 
first on-field death in Garland, Texas as 12-year-old Richard "Rick" Oden 
is hit in the head by a pitch thrown by Jerry Armstrong. The city park 
location of the incident is renamed "Rick Oden Field." As batting helmets 
are yet to be developed, Garland teams finish the season wearing youth 
football helmets over their baseball caps when batting. Later that year, 
Fred Shapiro throws a perfect game in the Little League World Series.[citation 
needed] 1957: Angel Macias throws a perfect game and Monterrey, Mexico, 
becomes the first team from outside the United States to win the Little 
League World Series. (Portrayed in 2010 film "The Perfect Game".)[2] 1959: 
The Little League World Series moves from Williamsport to the newly built 
Little League Headquarters in South Williamsport. The protective baseball 
helmet is developed by Dr. Creighton J. Hale.[2] 1960: A team from West 
Berlin, West Germany, is the first team from Europe to play in the Little 
League World Series. The series is broadcast live for the first time on 
ABC. Little League has grown to 27,400 teams in more than 5,500 leagues.[2] 
1961: Brian Sipe, future quarterback for the Cleveland Browns, plays for 
the series champions from El Cajon, California.[2] 1962: Jackie Robinson 
attends the Little League World Series. President John F. Kennedy proclaims 
National Little League Week.[2] 1967: A team from West Tokyo, Japan, is 
the first team from Asia to win the Little League World Series.[2] 1969: 
Taiwan begins a dominant era that would see them win 17 Little League World 
Series titles.[2] 1971: The aluminum baseball bat is first used. It was 
partly developed by Little League Baseball. Lloyd McClendon of Gary, Indiana, 
dominates the Little League World Series, hitting five home runs in five 
at-bats. He later played in the Major Leagues and become the first Little 
League graduate to manage an MLB club with the Pittsburgh Pirates.[2] 1973: 
Ed Vosberg plays in the Little League World Series for Tucson, Arizona. 
He later played in the College World Series for the University of Arizona 
in 1980 and the World Series in 1997 for the Florida Marlins. Vosberg is 
the first person to have played in all three world series.[2] 1974: Girls 
are formally permitted to play in the Little League Baseball program as 
result of lawsuit brought on behalf of Frances Pescatore[9] and Jenny Fulle,[10] 
and a Little League Softball program for both boys and girls is created. 
Bunny Taylor becomes the first girl to pitch a no-hitter.[11] 1975: In 
a controversial decision, all foreign teams are banned from the Little 
League World Series. International play is restored the following year.[2] 
1980: A team from Tampa, Florida, representing Belmont Heights Little League, 
is led by two future major leaguers Derek Bell and Gary Sheffield. Bell 
returns the following year and Belmont Heights again loses in the finals 
to a team from Taiwan.[2] 1982: The Peter J. McGovern Little League Museum 
opens. Cody Webster leads a team from Kirkland, Washington, in an upset 
victory of a powerful team from Taiwan. It was Taiwan's first loss in 31 
games.[2] This game was later featured on ESPN's 30 for 30 series Little 
Big Men. 1984: Seoul, South Korea, wins the first title for a South Korean 
team. They defeat a team from Altamonte Springs, Florida, led by future 
Boston Red Sox catcher, Jason Varitek.[2] 1984:: Victoria Roche, a 12-year-old 
from Belgium, becomes the first girl to play in the Little League World 
Series.[12] 1988: Tom Seaver is the first former Little Leaguer to be enshrined 
in the Peter J. McGovern Museum Hall of Excellence.[2] 1989: Poland becomes 
the first former Warsaw Pact nation to receive a Little League charter. 
Trumbull, Connecticut, led by future NHL star Chris Drury, wins the Little 
League World Series.[2] 1991: Future NL All Star Jason Marquis pitches 
the Staten Island South Shore Little League team to third place in the 
Little League World Series over Canada, throwing a no-hitter.[13] 1992: 
Carl Stotz, the founder of Little League, dies. Lights are installed at 
Lamade Stadium allowing for the first night games to be played. The series 
is expanded from single elimination to round-robin format. Long Beach, 
California, managed by former Major Leaguer Jeff Burroughs and led by his 
son, future Major Leaguer Sean Burroughs, is named series champion after 
Zamboanga City, Philippines, is forced to forfeit for playing with ineligible 
players.[2] 1993: Long Beach repeats as champions, defeating Coquivacoa 
Little League of Maracaibo, Venezuela. It is the first U.S. team to successfully 
defend its title.[2] 1997: ESPN2 broadcasts regional play for the first 
time. Taiwan's baseball association withdraws from Little League Baseball 
(they would rejoin in 2003) over newly established rules on zoning. Bradenton, 
Florida, and Pottsville, Pennsylvania, play at Lamade Stadium before the 
largest crowd ever to attend a non-championship game. The crowd was estimated 
at over 35,000 fans.[2] 1999: Burkina-Faso becomes the 100th nation with 
a Little League organization. Hirkata Little League of Osaka, Japan, becomes 
the first Japanese team to win a title since 1976.[2] 2000: An expansion 
project begins at Little League International. Volunteer Stadium is built. 
This allows the [2] pool of participants to be doubled from 8 to 16 the 
following year. 2001: The LLWS expands from 8 to 16 teams, with the following 
changes to regional lineups (post-2000 regions in bold): In other news, 
Volunteer Stadium is opened. George W. Bush becomes the first U.S. president 
to visit the Little League World Series.[2] Led by phenom Danny Almonte, 
pitching the first perfect game since 1957, the Rolando Paulino All Stars 
(Bronx, New York) finish third in the series. The team's entire postseason, 
however, is wiped from the books when it is found that Almonte was 14 years 
old.[citation needed] 2002: Austin Dillon plays for Southwest Forsyth (County) 
Little League in Clemmons, North Carolina. The grandson of Richard Childress, 
he would win NASCAR championships in the Camping World Truck Series in 
2011 and Nationwide Series in 2013, and made his Sprint Cup debut in 2014.[citation 
needed] 2004: Effective with the 2004 LLWS, the Europe Region is renamed 
EMEA, for Europe, Middle East, Africa.[citation needed] 2007: Little League 
expands into Australia for the first time. Effective with the 2007 LLWS, 
the Asia and Pacific regions are merged to form the Asia-Pacific Region, 
with Japan being split into its own region.[citation needed] 2007: Little 
League expands into Kyrgyzstan for the first time[citation needed] 2008: 
Effective with this year's LLWS, the Transatlantic and EMEA regions are 
reorganized into the Europe and Middle East and Africa (MEA) regions. The 
previous nationality restrictions for players from these regions are abolished. 
Hawai'i wins the 2008 Little League World Series beating Mexico in the 
Final. 2008: Little League International relocates the Southeast Region 
Headquarters From Gulfport, Florida, to Warner Robins, Ga. Little League 
International completes renovation of its administration building in South 
Williamsport, Pa.[citation needed] 2010: The World Series tournament is 
reorganized, eliminating pool play and adopting double-elimination until 
the bracket winners are determined. Little League announces plans to add 
a pilot division in baseball for ages 12–13 to help baseball Little Leaguers 
make the transition to regulation-size fields in Junior League Baseball. 
Bartlett, Illinois, becomes biggest little league.[14] 2011: The World 
Series officially eliminates the two four-team brackets and puts all eight 
teams in the United States bracket and all eight teams in the International 
bracket, with a SEC Baseball Tournament style flipped bracket on the loser's 
bracket to prevent rematches, but does not require the loser to defeat 
the winner's bracket team twice in either Saturday championship game where 
the winner advances to the Sunday final.[citation needed] 2012: 2013: 2014: 
The national regions represented in the annual Little League Baseball World 
Series are: The international regions are: The best-known event on the 
Little League Baseball and Softball calendar is the annual Little League 
Baseball World Series, which is held every August in South Williamsport, 
Pennsylvania. Tournaments leading up to the World Series are held in the 
U.S. insular areas of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and the Northern 
Mariana Islands, and throughout the world. In 2003, for example, there 
were tournaments in Canada, Latin America (Mexico, Aruba, Curaçao, Panama, 
Peru, and Venezuela), Europe (Germany and Poland), and Asia (Japan, Philippines, 
South Korea, Taiwan). The Little League Baseball World Series is just one 
of twelve World Series conducted by Little League International every year, 
each one held in a different location. Little League Baseball has several 
baseball divisions for boys and girls, based on age.[39] The major divisions 
of Little League Baseball have their own World Series format as follows: 
Tee Ball is for boys and girls ages 4–5, with local leagues given the option 
to allow 6–7-year-olds to play. In Tee Ball, players hit the ball off of 
a tee located atop home plate; live pitching is not allowed. The purpose 
of the division is to teach young children the basic fundamentals of hitting 
and fielding.[39] The Minor League Baseball division is generally for children 
ages 7–11, with local leagues given the option to allow 6-year-old children 
to try out. Local leagues are permitted to further divide the Minor League 
division based on player age and/or experience, and often consist of coach-pitch 
(i.e., the batter's coach lightly pitching the ball) or machine-pitch at 
lower levels, with defensive players pitching at higher levels.[39] "The 
9–10 Year Old Baseball Division for boys and girls was established as a 
tournament program in 1994. It gives children of this age the opportunity 
to experience tournament competition, up to state level. Players on these 
teams can be chosen from among Major Division and/or Minor Division teams. 
The diamond used is a 60-foot diamond and the pitching distance is 46 feet."[39] 
"The Little League Baseball Division (sometimes known as the Major Division) 
is for boys and girls ages 9–12. A local league may choose to limit its 
Major Division to 10-, 11-, and 12-year-olds, or 11–12-year-olds. The diamond 
used is a 60-foot diamond and the pitching distance is 46 feet. The local 
league has an option to choose a Tournament Team (or "All Stars") of 11–12-year-olds 
from within this division, and the team may enter the International Tournament. 
The culmination of the International Tournament is the Little League Baseball 
World Series, featuring teams from around the globe. All expenses for the 
teams advancing to the World Series (travel, meals, and housing) are paid 
by Little League Baseball."[39] In 2012, Little League announced plans 
to add a new division of play for the 2013 season, the Little League Intermediate 
Division. This Division is played on a field with a 50-foot (15 m) pitching 
distance and 70-foot (21 m) base paths. It is open to players ages 11–13, 
but may be limited to ages 11–12 or 12–13 by a local league. Players in 
this division are able to lead off and steal. The rules follow rules similar 
to those of the Junior, Senior, and Big League Divisions of play. Little 
League holds a World Series in this level of play, officially called the 
Intermediate Little League World Series, in Livermore, California.[40] 
"The Junior League Baseball Division is a program for boys and girls ages 
13–14, using a conventional 90-foot (27 m) diamond with a pitching distance 
of 60 feet 6 inches (18.44 m). (A modified diamond is available during 
the regular season.) The local league has an option to choose a Tournament 
Team (or "All Stars") of 13-14-year-olds from within this division (and/or 
from within the Senior League Division), and the team may enter the International 
Tournament. The culmination of the International Tournament is the Junior 
League Baseball World Series, featuring teams from around the globe. All 
expenses for the teams advancing to the World Series (travel, meals, and 
housing) are paid by Little League Baseball."[39] "The Senior League Baseball 
Division is for boys and girls 14–16 years old, using a conventional 90-foot 
(27 m) diamond with a pitching distance of 60 feet 6 inches (18.44 m). 
The local league has an option to choose a Tournament Team (or "All Stars") 
of 14- to 16-year-olds from within this division (and/or from within the 
Junior League or Big League divisions), and the team may enter the International 
Tournament. The culmination of the International Tournament is the Senior 
League Baseball World Series, featuring teams from around the globe. All 
expenses for the teams advancing to the World Series (travel, meals, and 
housing) are paid by Little League Baseball."[39] "The Big League Baseball 
Division is for boys and girls ages 16–18, using a conventional 90-foot 
(27 m) diamond with a pitching distance of 60 feet 6 inches (18.44 m). 
The local league has an option to choose a Tournament Team (or "All Stars") 
of 16–18-year-olds from within this division (and/or from within the Senior 
League Division), and the team may enter the International Tournament. 
The culmination of the International Tournament is the Big League Baseball 
World Series, featuring teams from around the globe. All expenses for the 
teams advancing to the World Series (travel, meals, and housing) are paid 
by Little League Baseball."[39] Little League introduced the Challenger 
Division in 1989 to provide opportunities for children with physical and 
intellectual challenges to participate in the Little League program. The 
Challenger Division utilizes a "buddy system" in which Little Leaguers 
assist Challenger participants in the areas of batting, running and fielding. 
Challenger Division games are typically non-competitive in nature.[41] 
Introduced in 1989, the Little League Challenger Division is for participants 
ages 4–18. Games are played on a 46/60 field and are non-competitive. Approved 
at the 2014 Little League International Congress the Senior League Challenger 
Division launched in 2015. This division is for participants ages 15 and 
above (no maximum age). Games are played on a 60/90 field and are non-competitive. 
Leagues may request permission to play games on a smaller field as well. 
As of 2014, nearly 1,000 Little Leagues in 10 countries around the world 
offered the Challenger Program providing an opportunity for more than 30,000 
individuals with physical or intellectual challenges to participate in 
the Little League program. Little League Baseball has several softball 
divisions for girls and boys, based on age. The playing rules for the baseball 
divisions essentially follow the "Official Baseball Rules" (as defined 
by and used by Major League Baseball and published at Official Baseball 
Rules at MLB.com), especially with respect to the upper divisions (Junior, 
Senior, and Big League). Some major exceptions are outlined in the following 
sections, and these apply to Little League (Minor and Major, ages 7–12) 
except as otherwise noted. Unlike Major League Baseball and most other 
sports such as football, soccer, and basketball, the official rules of 
Little League Baseball are available to the general public only by online 
subscription ($20)[46] or as a printed edition ($7[46] plus $3 for "shipping 
and handling" within the US via UPS[47]). In Canada, rulebook orders requested 
through LittleLeague.ca are routed to the US website at the same prices, 
except that "shipping and handling" to Canada via UPS is US$15.51, for 
a total of US$22.51 for a single printed copy.[47] Rulebooks are not available 
in sporting goods or other stores and must be ordered directly from Little 
League Baseball, Incorporated or one of its "Regional Centers".[46][48] 
One paper copy is provided to each team that has sent in an "Application 
for Charter and Insurance",[46] although previously two copies were provided.[48] 
Little League has been criticized for requiring payment to view its rules.[48] 
However, the organization counters by claiming it has been exposed to lawsuits 
in the past in cases involving organizations not officially affiliated 
with Little League but which nonetheless use its rules.[48] A regulation 
game is 6 innings. If the game is called prior to the completion of six 
innings, it is considered an official game if four innings have been completed 
(three and a half, if the home team leads); otherwise, if at least one 
inning has been completed, it is a suspended game. In Intermediate Little 
League, as well as the Junior, Senior, and Big League levels (ages 13–18), 
a game is seven innings and is official if five innings have been completed. 
In all divisions except Senior and Big League, every player on the team 
roster must have at least one plate appearance and play six consecutive 
outs on defense in each game. The penalty for a manager violating the rule 
is a two-game suspension. This rule is waived if the game is completed 
prior to the usual duration of the game (six innings in Little League and 
below, seven innings in Intermediate Little League and Junior League). 
This rule is modified during tournament play. During tournament play, teams 
that have 13 or more players dressed at the field for a game are mandated 
to have one (1) "At Bat" during the game per player with no defensive requirement. 
Teams that have 12 or fewer players dressed at the field for a tournament 
game require each player to receive one (1) "At Bat" plus six consecutive 
outs played in the field on defense. The size of the field is dependent 
on the division of play.[49] Tee Ball Minor League and Little League Intermediate 
Little League Junior League, Senior League, and Big League Bats (all levels) 
may be made from wood or other materials (such as aluminum) and must be 
approved for use in Little League Baseball. For the Majors Division and 
below, the maximum bat length is thirty-three (33) inches and barrel diameter 
may not exceed 2 1⁄4 inches. Beginning in 2009 all Little League bats must 
be labeled with a Bat Performance Factor (BPF) of 1.15 or lower. Bats for 
the Junior League level may have a maximum length of thirty-four (34) inches 
and a maximum barrel diameter of 2 5⁄8 inches. Bats for the Big and Senior 
League levels may have a maximum length of thirty-six (36) inches and a 
maximum barrel diameter of 2 5⁄8 inches. Non-wood Big and Senior League 
bats must meet the Batted Ball Coefficient of Restitution (BBCOR) testing 
standards that are currently used in the NCAA and NFHS (high school).[50] 
Intermediate Little League bats must meet Junior League specifications. 
When the pitcher is ready to pitch, a baserunner may not leave the bag 
until the pitch reaches the batter in Minor League and standard Little 
League. In the upper levels, including Intermediate Little League, the 
runner can leave the bag at any time while the ball is in play. If a fielder 
is waiting at the base with the ball, an advancing runner must attempt 
to avoid contact. A runner may not slide head-first except when retreating 
to a previously held base. In the upper levels, runners must still make 
an attempt to avoid contact if possible, and may not maliciously initiate 
contact with a fielder. The upper limit of the strike zone extends to the 
batter's armpits.[51] In Tee-Ball, Minor League, and Little League (if 
'uncaught third strike' rule is waived by the local league), the batter 
is out after the third strike regardless of whether the pitched ball is 
held by the catcher. In Little League (both standard and Intermediate), 
Junior, Senior, and Big League, a batter may attempt to advance to first 
base on a dropped third strike if first base is unoccupied with less than 
two outs or if first base is unoccupied or occupied with two outs. If the 
batter is hit by a pitch, the batter gets walked automatically. However, 
if the batter does not make an attempt to get out of the way of the pitched 
ball, the home-plate umpire may continue the at-bat. Players who have been 
substituted for may return to the game under certain conditions, though 
a player who is removed as pitcher may not return to pitch. Pitchers in 
all divisions are limited to a specific pitch count per game and a mandatory 
rest period between outings. These vary with age and the rest period also 
depends on the number of pitches thrown.[52] Also, prior to 2008 a pitcher 
could intentionally walk a batter by simply announcing his intent to do 
so and not have to actually throw any pitches; however, beginning in 2008 
the pitcher must now actually pitch the required four balls (which are 
counted against the pitch count).If the pitcher hits too many batters with 
the ball, or intentionally hit him, he is ejected from the pitching spot. 
Local leagues have a certain amount of flexibility. For example, a league 
may opt to use the "continuous batting order" rule (4.04), under which 
each player on the team's roster bats, even when not in the defensive lineup. 
Leagues may also waive the "ten-run rule" (4.10(e)) which ends the game 
