The Asia-Pacific and Middle East Region is a region that competes in the 
Little League World Series. Asian teams first competed in the LLWS in 1962, 
when East Asia was given a berth for the first time. In 2001, the Little 
League World Series was expanded to sixteen teams, and East Asia was split 
into two regions – the Pacific (consisting of teams from the Pacific Islands, 
Indonesia, and Oceania) and Asia (consisting of teams from mainland Asia). 
In 2007, the regions were reconfigured. Japan was given its own automatic 
berth in the Series, while the remaining Asian teams merged with the Pacific 
teams to create the Asia-Pacific Region. Starting with the 2013 LLWS, the 
region will be reorganized as the Asia-Pacific and Middle East Region. 
Australia, now the fourth-largest country and the largest outside North 
America in Little League participation, will receive its own LLWS berth. 
All Middle Eastern countries with Little League programs, except for Israel 
and Turkey, will be placed in the former Asia-Pacific Region. Previously, 
the Middle East had formed a region with Africa, but that region was disbanded, 
with African teams joining the Europe and Africa Region (formerly Europe 
Region, which also includes Israel and Turkey).[1] In 2001, the East Asian 
region split into the Asia and Pacific regions. The Asia region comprised 
Little Leagues from mainland Asia. The list below lists each country's 
participant in the Asia Little League Region Tournament between 2001 and 
2006. That year's winner is indicated in green. Two teams from the Asia 
region won the Little League World Series — Tokyo in 2001 and 2003. In 
2001, the East Asian region split into the Asia and Pacific regions. The 
list below lists each country's participant in the Pacific Little League 
Region Tournament between 2001 and 2006. That year's winner is indicated 
in green. No team from the Pacific region won the Little League World Series. 
In 2007, the Asia and Pacific regions were reconfigured again. Japan was 
given its own place in the LLWS and the remaining Asian and Pacific teams 
were merged into one region. No Asia-Pacific team has won the LLWS, although 
Kuei-Shan Little League of Chinese Taipei finished runner-up in 2009. The 
list below lists each country's participant in the Asia-Pacific Little 
League Region Tournament between 2007 and 2012. That year's winner is indicated 
in green. As noted above, this region was reconfigured in 2013, with the 
spin-off of Australia into its own LLWS region and the addition of Middle 
Eastern countries. The following table lists each Asia-Pacific country's 
record in the Little League World Series. Italics indicates team is no 
longer in the region. Table includes results for teams that qualified for 
either the East Asian, Pacific, Asia, or Asia-Pacific regional LLWS berth 
through the 2015 Little League World Series. Asia-Pacific Region in other 
