Little League World Series Baseball is a series of sports video games. 
Based on the Little League World Series, there are three games in the series. 
No game in the series was released after 2010. Little League World Series 
Baseball 2008 was released on August 5, 2008 for the Wii and the Nintendo 
DS by Activision. It is the first game to be officially licensed by Little 
League baseball for the seventh generation of consoles.[1] Its design mirrors 
MLB Power Pros and its sequel MLB Power Pros 2008. The gameplay is also 
similar to the baseball game in Wii Sports. The game is a part of Activision's 
Fun4All-brand in Europe. The game begins when a player is taken to a main 
menu. They there can choose several different options, including World 
Series mode, exhibition mode and minigames. In World Series mode, a player 
chooses one of the 16 different regions, and tries to reach the Little 
League World Series by making it through pool play, then winning in the 
playoffs. In the Exhibition mode, a player can pit any two teams in the 
game against each other for a faster, less-complicated experience. The 
game has an extensive array of minigames called "Skill Challenges", which 
range from the power-hitting home run tourney to the accuracy-important 
Tic-tac-toe. Little League World Series Baseball 2009 was developed by 
Japanese developer Now Production (NowPro). The game begins when a player 
is taken to a main menu. They there can choose several different options, 
including World Series mode, exhibition mode and minigames. In World Series 
mode, a player chooses one of the 16 different regions, and tries to reach 
the Little League World Series by making it through regionals, pool play, 
then winning in the playoffs. In the Exhibition mode, a player can pit 
any two teams in the game against each other for a faster, less-complicated 
experience. Little League World Series Baseball 2010 was released in North 
America on July 20, 2010.[2] The game begins when a player is taken to 
a main menu. They there can choose several different options, including 
World Series mode, exhibition mode and minigames. In addition, the game 
will feature online leaderboards, Trophies and Achievements. In World Series 
mode, a player chooses one of the 16 different regions, and tries to reach 
the Little League World Series by making it through pool play, then winning 
in the playoffs. In the Exhibition mode, a player can pit any two teams 
in the game against each other for a faster, less-complicated experience. 
Little League World Series 2008 Wii and DS games received mixed reactions 
from critics. Some call the game "Simple, yet tough to master." [3] While 
others say it's "...best for the younger players."[citation needed] One 
of the main criticisms of the game, especially from its online gamers, 
has been its lack of Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection.[4] Little League World 
Series Baseball 2010 was met with mixed results following its release. 
Gamespot's Brett Todd gave the game a 5.5 (mediocre) score, claiming "With 
more finesse and depth, Little League World Series Baseball 2010 could 
