The Far East East Region was one of four international regions that competed 
in the Little League World Series from 1962–2000. Far East qualifiers won 
a record 23 titles — 17 from Taiwan, four from Japan, and two from Korea 
Republic. Teams from East Asia were first allowed to qualify for the Little 
League World Series in 1961. A team from Japan lost to Hawaii in the Pacific 
Region qualifying game. The following year the Far East Region was created 
with the Japanese champion receiving an automatic bid to the World Series. 
The first Far East Regional Tournament took place in 1969 and featured 
six countries.[1] In 2001, the Little League World Series was expanded 
to sixteen teams. The Far East was split into two regions – the Pacific 
(consisting of teams from the Pacific Islands, Indonesia, and Oceania) 
and Asia (consisting of teams from mainland Asia). Originally, Japan was 
to become its own region.[2] In 2007, the regions were again reconfigured 
to match the original plan. Japan was given an automatic berth in the Series, 
while the remaining Asian teams merged with the Pacific teams to create 
the Asia-Pacific Region. From 1972-74, Taiwan dominated the LLWS, outscoring 
their opponents 112–2. In 1973 they did not allow a hit. On November 11, 
1974, Little League announced that all non-US teams were banned from competing 
in the Little League World Series. Initially travel costs and nationalism 
were the reasons given. But many made the connection to the success of 
the Far East. A representative of the Taiwanese Baseball Association also 
read between the lines; "We are suffering from a strange phenomenon, we 
are too good."[3] Several months later, Little League did give a more detailed 
reason for the ban. "There was too much emphasis on this particular age 
group, and this happened in Latin America, as well as the Far East and 
other places in which it became a more Olympic type activity.[4] Despite 
being banned from the world series, international leagues still held regional 
championships. In the 1975 Far East Tournament Taiwan defeated Japan in 
a controversial contest.[5] The ban was only limited to the LIttle League 
division. International teams could still compete at the Senior and Big 
League World Series. Taiwan would win both of those tournaments, the Far 
East hegemony encompassed each level of youth baseball. In December 1975 
the international ban was repealed with a 12-1 vote.[6] The decision came 
with a caveat, the tournament would now be split into two brackets. One 
side for the US teams, and the other for the internationals. This would 
give the US a 50/50 chance of winning the championship every year, but 
it also made the road easier for the Far East and Latin America teams. 
The four international regions; Canada, Europe, Far East, and Latin America, 
were not all at the same skill level. The futility of Canada and Europe 
therefore turned the international side into a foregone conclusion. The 
Far East or Latin American champion would make the final every year that 
followed the bracket split. For the first time ever, a team from the Philippines 
won from the Far East Tournament. The team would head to Williamsport and 
advance to the final. The championship game, against Long Beach, California, 
was a blowout, with Zamboanga City winning 15-4 after a 7 run first inning.[7] 
The team was hailed as heroes in the Philippines, President Ramos giving 
the team a gift of 1 million pesos to contribute to the livelihood of their 
families.[8] Long Beach head coach Jeff Burroughs remarked that semi-final 
pitcher Roberto Placious had the poise of a high school or college pitcher.[9] 
There had been some suspicions about the Zamboanaga City team soon after 
it arrived in Williamsport. Several committee members didn't think the 
manager and coach seemed "typical." However, nothing more came of it after 
assurances were given that the manager and coach were from the same league 
as the players and had coached in that league during the regular season. 
A few days after Zamboanga City's triumphant victory, however, journalist 
Al Mendoza of the Philippine Daily Inquirer began publishing stories suggesting 
that some players were ineligible. He'd received letters from several neighbors 
and relatives claiming that several players were too old for Little League. 
Local administrator Armando Andaya was faxed four questions from Little 
League president Creighton Hale, regarding player ages, birth certificates, 
residence, and a specific question regarding winning championship game 
pitcher Ian Tolentino's participation in a tournament in 1990 (possibly 
with the view of suggesting this would have made him over-age). Andaya 
admitted to violating rules on district representation - eight players 
were from outside the Zamboanga City area, some as far away as Luzon, and 
unable to speak Chabacano, the language most commonly spoken in Zamboanga. 
Andaya claimed that the eight players replaced, for various reasons, were 
unable to go to China for the Far East series and that the out-of-district 
substitutes were only used to make up numbers rather than to give the team 
an extra edge over their opponents. He also admitted that the team's original 
coach had been replaced with someone from Manila.[10] Little League Baseball 
stripped Zamboanga City of its title. Under Little League rules at the 
time, when a team was found to have used an ineligible player, it forfeited 
only its most recent game (otherwise they would have to put the entire 
tournament on hold while the teams that lost to the illegal team were put 
back into the tournament). Since the revelation was made after the championship 
game, that game was declared a 6-0 forfeit victory by Long Beach, which 
was awarded the championship. The exposed players and parents remained 
defiant, and accused Little League Baseball of denying them due process.[11] 
With many Filipinos outraged at what they saw as an unpatriotic betrayal 
by Mendoza, who was given the key to the city of Long Beach, fellow Inquirer 
journalist Armand N. Nocum conducted further investigation[12] and found 
that even the six true Zamboangueños were over-age, including at least 
two as old as 15,[13] and thus ineligible. It was discovered that, as with 
the eight non-district players, the fraud had been maintained by the players' 
assumption of identities of (eligible) players who had represented the 
city at the national championships, the families of whom were reportedly 
willing to reveal all, jealous of the prizes bestowed upon the players 
who had used their sons' identities to represent their country at the Far 
East and World Series. In some cases, even the parents of the ineligible 
players assumed appropriate identities to maintain the appearance of propriety.[12] 
Nocum, a native of the area, had not wanted to believe such an egregious 
fraud was taking place, but discovered that even school officials were 
in on the cover-up. Later, Nocum, seemingly backing Andaya's assertion 
that the substitutes were not chosen to artificially inflate the team's 
performance, told Sports Illustrated that had the original Zamboanga City 
team participated in the World Series, they would have trounced Long Beach 
by at least 30-4.[10] In an interesting post-script, Zamboanga City was 
disqualified from the Filipino national titles the very next year in another 
over-age player scandal.[14] Following the Zamboanga City scandal, Little 
League announced that they would be enforcing boundary and age limits more 
strictly. At the 1993 Far East Tournament Taiwan defeated Japan to claim 
yet another berth in Williamsport. South Korea and China rounded out the 
top 4. The World Series berth, however, was given to the fifth place team 
from Saipan, Northern Mariana Islands. The top 4 had all failed to meet 
the new rule requirements and were disqualified. The team from Saipan went 
1–2 in Williamsport, making it the first time since 1970 that Far East 
Champion did not to make the semifinals.[15] The Latin America champion 
from the Dominican Republic was also disqualified under similar circumstances. 
In April 1997, the Taiwan Baseball Association decided that its youth baseball 
programs would no longer affiliate with Little League. “The leagues in 
Taiwan were unable at that time to adhere to certain Little League rules 
and regulations regarding residency, and the area from which a single chartered 
league could draw its players,” said Stephen D. Keener, president and chief 
executive officer of Little League Baseball. Taiwan would re-join Little 
League in 2003, their best finish in the LLWS since returning is Runner-Up 
in 2009. The following table lists each country's record in the Little 
League World Series. Asia-Pacific Region in other Little League divisions 
