Little Big League is a 1994 family sports film about a 12-year-old who 
suddenly becomes the owner and then manager of the Minnesota Twins baseball 
team. It stars Luke Edwards, Timothy Busfield, and Dennis Farina. This 
film and Disney's Angels in the Outfield were both released just over a 
month before the 1994 MLB Baseball Players Strike, which forced the league 
to cancel the playoffs and the World Series. Both indeed feature fictional 
playoff races that never would have been played out in real life. The film 
was a box office disappointment when it was released perhaps due in large 
part to it being given a theatrical release around the same time as The 
Lion King and Forrest Gump. Billy Heywood (Luke Edwards), a Little League 
Baseball player, is a pre-teen son to a widowed single mom, Jenny (Ashley 
Crow). Billy's grandfather is Thomas Heywood (Jason Robards), owner of 
the Minnesota Twins. The Twins are a last-place team (though in real life, 
they were World Series champions just three years prior), but Billy and 
his grandfather love each other, the Twins, and the game of baseball. When 
the grandfather dies, it is revealed that he wants Billy to inherit the 
franchise. Thomas Heywood specified that if Billy is still a minor at the 
time of his death, his aides are to help him until Billy is old enough 
to run the team by himself. Billy quickly runs afoul of the team's manager, 
George O'Farrell (Dennis Farina). Billy believes he is too hard on the 
players. O'Farrell despises the idea of working for a kid and balks at 
a potential signing of superstar player Rickey Henderson much to Billy's 
frustration. After O'Farrell insults Billy and tells him to butt out of 
the team's business, Billy fires him. There is considerable difficulty 
finding another manager to replace O'Farrell, since no one particularly 
wants to work for a kid. Billy therefore decides to name himself the new 
manager after one of his friends points out, "It's the American League! 
They got the DH! How hard could it be?" He reaches out to the Commissioner 
of Baseball, who approves after consulting with Jenny. (In real life, for 
conflict of interest reasons, MLB does not allow team owners to make themselves 
their team's manager, though the commissioner can grant an exception.) 
The players are very skeptical, but Billy promises that if he does not 
improve the team's position in the standings within a few weeks, he will 
resign. The team quickly moves up to division race contention. Unfortunately, 
not all is going smoothly for Billy, as his friend and star first baseman 
Lou Collins (Timothy Busfield) takes a romantic interest in Billy's mother. 
Billy picks up bad habits on the road, and is even ejected from a game 
and given a one game "suspension" by his mother for throwing a temper tantrum 
and swearing at an umpire because of a call he didn't like. He also must 
release his personal favorite Twins player, Jerry Johnson (Duane Davis), 
who is clearly in the twilight of his career. He ends up making Jerry feel 
even worse when Billy immaturely tries to illustrate his own distress by 
pointing out he owns Jerry's baseball card and wouldn't give it up for 
a Wade Boggs and a Sammy Sosa. The pressures of managing the team while 
also fulfilling his other responsibilities, such as schoolwork, wear him 
down and consume his free time. Billy's friends do not like how Billy's 
managerial responsibilities are keeping him away from being with them. 
Even when he's physically present (as opposed to on the road with the team), 
he is typically distracted by team business. Lou goes into a slump and 
the jealous Billy benches him, sending the Twins into a losing skid. Billy 
later tells his mom that he's tired of being a "grown-up" and decides to 
quit as manager after the end of the season, even reinstating Lou to starter 
on first base. Down four games in the wild card race with four games left 
to play, the Twins win all four and the first place Seattle Mariners lose 
all four to force a one game playoff to determine the wild card (in real 
life, the 1980 Houston Astros won the National League West Division in 
similar fashion as well as the 1995 Seattle Mariners, who beat the California 
Angels for first in the American League West in a one-game tiebreaker to 
make the postseason for the first time in franchise history.[1] ). The 
Twins face Ken Griffey, Jr. and the Seattle Mariners, with the American 
League Wild Card playoff spot on the line. With two outs in the bottom 
of the twelfth inning, losing by a run with a man on base and Randy Johnson 
pitching. Lou tells Billy he asked his mom to marry him. He says her reply 
was to ask Billy. Initially, Billy says if Lou hits a homer, he will give 
the marriage his OK, but quickly relents and gives Lou his consent whether 
or not he hits a homer. It appears it's as good as done, but the Twins 
lose the big game thanks to Griffey taking away Lou's home run by way of 
a spectacular catch. Billy officially tells the players he is stepping 
down as manager, with pitching coach Mac MacNally (John Ashton) taking 
his place as well as bringing back Jerry to be the third base coach and 
new hitting instructor. (Thereby, implying that Johnson retired as an active 
player). Billy reassures all the players that he will still be the owner, 
and says that he might come back as manager if junior high doesn't work 
out. He and the rest of the team then receive a standing ovation from everyone 
