Home Away Lobos de Arecibo (English: Wolves) are a professional baseball 
team in the Puerto Rican Professional Baseball League, based in Arecibo. 
The Lobos won the 1983 national baseball championship and the 1983 Caribbean 
World Series, the only time the franchise won both titles. During their 
successful run in the 1980s, the Lobos had MLB prospect Dickie Thon, then 
also of the Houston Astros, on their roster. Thon then suffered a life-threatening 
and career-affecting eye injury during an Astros game in 1984. The Lobos 
won the national baseball championship again in 1996, a team that included 
Milwaukee Brewers catcher Mike Matheny; but finished second in the Caribbean 
series, which was won in Mexico by the Tomateros de Culiacán. The Lobos 
ceased operation in 1999. After six years without the team, Arecibo saw 
the return of the Lobos in 2005. The team had spent that time in various 
cities, under names like the San Juan Senators and even one year with the 
historic moniker of the Cangrejeros de Santurce. But for the 2005-2006 
season, the team was acquired by a sports-loving local doctor who, with 
his fellow townsfolk in mind, returned the team to its rightful place[citation 
needed]. Facing only 28 days in which to prepare the Luis Rodriguez Olmo 
stadium for play after six years of neglect, the citizens of Arecibo, together 
with state and local officials, performed what has been known as the "Milagro 
Lobo" or the miracle of the wolf, returning its infrastructure to more 
than acceptable conditions in such a short period of time. On November 
18, 2009, the Lobos defeated the Indios.[1] A scheduled game against the 
Leones del Escogido was suspended due to rain.[2] On November 29, 2009, 
the Lobos lost to the Águilas Cibaeñas in inter-league action.[3] The following 
night, the team won their eight game of the season, defeating the Leones 
del Escogido.[4] In the third game of this inter-league series, the Lobos 
defeated the Estrellas Orientales. During the trade stage, the team's general 
manager, Pachy Rodríguez, expressed satisfaction with the acquisition of 
