This is a compilation of logos and uniforms of the New York Yankees. Current 
cap logo Jersey logo 1903–1904 Current jersey logo Current print insignia 
Throughout much of their tenure as the Highlanders, the logo was variations 
of a stylized N and Y, which lay separately on either side of the jersey's 
breast. In 1905, the two locked for one season, but not in the way used 
today. It wasn't until 1909 that the team changed to the familiar interlocking 
NY that would be the team logo long after the team became known as the 
Yankees, and would continue to be the cap insignia until today. The interlocking 
NY was originally designed by Tiffany & Co. and struck on a medal of honor 
presented in 1877 to John McDowell, a NYC police officer shot in the line 
of duty.[1] The primary logo, created in 1947 by sports artist Henry Alonzo 
Keller,[2] consists of "Yankees" against a baseball, written in red script 
with a red bat forming the vertical line of the K, an Uncle Sam hat hanging 
from the barrel. The logo was slightly changed over the years, with the 
current version first appearing in the 1970s. The interlocking NY has varied 
greatly, and there are currently three major versions in use. The first 
is the cap insignia, in which the N and Y are of about the same size and 
unadorned. The second is the logo on the breast of the home jersey. This 
logo first appeared there in 1912, continued through the 1913 renaming 
to the New York Yankees,[3] and after disappearing in 1917, returned for 
good in 1936, although there have been many small but apparent changes 
through the years. In the jersey logo, the Y is larger, the letters more 
blocky, and the curves more exaggerated. The third is the print logo which 
is used extensively in marketing, is painted behind home plate at the Stadium, 
and appears on the team's batting helmets. The N is larger and more curved, 
and the letters have large serifs at the end. In 1992, the Yankees along 
with all MLB teams, had an MLB logo on the back of their caps for the first 
time. The following year, the Yankees became one of the last teams to wear 
a cap with a green underbrim. They did not switch to a gray underbrim until 
1994, when most teams had been wearing a gray underbrim since the late 
1980s. In the 1996 World Series, the Yankees, along with the Atlanta Braves, 
became the first teams to wear their caps with World Series patches sewn 
on the side. In 1998, the Yankees had the number #39 sewn on the back of 
their caps, next to the MLB logo, for Darryl Strawberry, because he was 
suffering from colon cancer at the time. When the MLB season opened in 
2001, it was the 100th Anniversary of the American League. The Yankees 
had an AL 100th Anniversary patch on the side of their caps for the opening 
day series. When the Yankees celebrated their 100th Anniversary in 2003, 
they had a patch on the side of their caps, commemorating it as well. The 
Yankees along with all MLB teams stopped wearing wool caps, beginning in 
the year 2007. The new caps now have a black underbrim to reduce glare, 
and a more 3D MLB logo on the back. In 2009, to celebrate the inaugural 
season at Yankee Stadium, the Yankees had an inaugural season patch on 
the back of their caps. It is the first time in MLB history that a patch 
was in the back of a cap instead of just the MLB logo. However, the Yankees 
players that played in the 2009 Major League Baseball All-Star Game, in 
St. Louis had the regular MLB logo on the back of their caps. Starting 
in the 2010 MLB season, the Yankees MLB logo on the back of the caps and 
the back collar of the jerseys had gray behind the bat of the MLB logo 
instead of the usual red, which was present on Yankee caps since 1992. 
The Yankees use a block letter "NEW YORK" wordmark on the gray road uniform 
which has also become emblematic. There is also a print version of the 
full name, which is of a more fanciful script than the name appears in 
the team logo. The team colors are Navy Blue, White and Gray. The home 
uniform is white with distinctive pinstripes and a navy blue interlocking 
"NY" at the chest. The away uniform is gray with a navy blue "NEW YORK" 
written across the chest. The player number is on the back of the uniform 
jersey, and is not accompanied by the player name. A navy blue cap with 
a white interlocking "NY" logo is worn with both uniforms. Contrary to 
baseball legend, the Yankees did not start wearing pinstriped uniforms 
to make Babe Ruth look slimmer in the late 1920s and 1930s. In truth, the 
Yankees added pinstripes to their uniforms on a permanent basis soon after 
Ruppert bought the team in 1915[4] after briefly wearing pinstripes in 
1912. In 1929, the New York Yankees became the first team to make numbers 
a permanent part of the uniform. Numbers were handed out based on the order 
in the lineup. In 1929, Earle Combs wore #1, Mark Koenig #2, Babe Ruth 
#3, Lou Gehrig #4, Bob Meusel #5, Tony Lazzeri #6, Leo Durocher #7, Johnny 
Grabowski #8, Benny Bengough #9, and Bill Dickey #10. The team has never 
issued #0 or #00.[5] When other teams began putting names on the backs 
of jerseys in the 1960s, the Yankees did not follow suit. Many companies 
have created replica Yankee jerseys and other apparel with the player name 
above the number on the back for fans to purchase, but no official Yankee 
uniform has ever had a name on the back. The Yankees are the only team 
in Major League Baseball that has never displayed the logo of the official 
uniform supplier, currently Majestic Athletic, on game jerseys or pants 
supplied to players, and are also one of only two teams (the other being 
the Detroit Tigers) in Major League Baseball to shun the trend of creating 
a third "alternate" jersey. The home uniform has been the same (apart from 
minor changes) since 1936 – longer than any current uniform design in Major 
League Baseball – although patches commemorating milestones or special 
events may be worn for all or part of a season. The team will occasionally 
wear a black armband on the left sleeve, usually in honor of a Yankee great 
that died (in the case of some players, his number is frequently sewn above 
the armband). In 1990, the Yankees wore a #1 patch on their left sleeve 
in tribute to Billy Martin, who died in a car crash on Christmas Day of 
1989. It was the first time the Yankees paid tribute to a retired legend 
by putting their jersey number on their left sleeve. They did the same 
for Mickey Mantle in 1995, Joe DiMaggio in 1999, Phil Rizzuto in 2007 and 
Yogi Berra in late 2015. For the 2008 season, the team wore a patch commemorating 
the 2008 All-Star Game, another commemorating the last season in Yankee 
Stadium, and a black armband to honor Bobby Murcer who died July 12, 2008 
due to complication related to brain cancer.[6] In 2009, to commemorate 
the inaugural season at Yankee Stadium, the Yankees had an inaugural season 
patch on the left sleeve of the jersey. Beginning in the 2010 season, the 
MLB logo, on the back collar of their jerseys, has gray behind the bat 
of the MLB logo, instead of the usual red, which was on the jersey since 
2000, when all of the MLB teams started wearing the MLB logo on the back 
collar. Upon the deaths of owner George Steinbrenner and P.A. announcer 
Bob Sheppard, the Yankees sported two patches from July 16 until the end 
of the season; the left breast patch in memory of Steinbrenner, and a left 
shoulder patch in memory of Sheppard. The Yankees also added a black armband 
in memory of Ralph Houk upon his death on July 21. Although the Yankees 
have worn the same road uniform since 1918 (with the exception of 1927 
to 1930, when the arched "NEW YORK" was replaced by the word "YANKEES"), 
a radical change was proposed in 1974. Marty Appel, in his book Now Pitching 
for the Yankees, describes the proposed uniforms:[7] The Yankees did, however, 
make some minor updates to the road uniforms that season, including adding 
striping patterns to the sleeves and a white outline to the jersey numbers 
and the "NEW YORK" arch. This has remained since and was the only significant 
change to the road uniform until mid-2016 season when the road batting 
helmets became painted with a matte finish, rather than the gloss still 
used for home games. The Yankees have worn throwback uniforms on two special 
occasions. In 1996, the Yankees wore the uniforms of the New York Black 
Yankees on a day celebrating Negro league baseball. In 2012, the Yankees 
wore replicas of their 1912 uniforms, with an alternate interlocking N-Y 
logo and without numbers, for a game celebrating Fenway Park's centennial.[8] 
During a July 4, 2008 game against the Boston Red Sox, the Yankees wore 
a special stars-and-stripes cap with an American flag pattern inside the 
interlocking N-Y. It was "thought to be the first time in their history" 
that the Yankees had worn a special edition cap. All other teams in Major 
League Baseball, including the Red Sox, sported similar designs inside 
their cap logos.[9] As a Memorial Day promotion, the Yankees donned red 
caps with stars-and-stripes logos for a May 25, 2009 game against the Texas 
Rangers.[10] The Yankees also wore these caps for a July 4, 2009 game against 
the Toronto Blue Jays and for a September 11, 2009 game against the Baltimore 
Orioles.[11] The latter game is particularly notable, as it was the game 
in which Derek Jeter earned his 2,722nd base hit, breaking the franchise 
record held by Lou Gehrig. During the 2010 season, the Yankees wore special 
off-white caps with a similar stars-and-stripes logo in games played on 
Memorial Day, Independence Day weekend, and Patriot Day. Proceeds from 
sales of these caps support Welcome Back Veterans, a non-profit organization 
"targeting veterans' greatest needs, including mental health and job training/placement." 
All other teams except for the Toronto Blue Jays, who wore a Maple Leaf 
design, wore similarly-styled caps on these days.[12] For Memorial Day, 
2013 (May 27) all of major league baseball wore caps and jerseys "featuring 
an authentic military digital camouflage design licensed from the United 
States Marine Corps."[13] The Yankees, playing on the road at Citi Field, 
wore camouflage caps with a white "NY", and jerseys with camouflage "New 
York" on the front and camouflage numbers on the back.[14] Under George 
Steinbrenner, long hair and facial hair below the lip were prohibited;[15] 
the practice has been continued under Hal Steinbrenner since control of 
the Yankees was transferred to him after the 2008 season. Players who do 
not fit these criteria must shave the excess hair. In the past, visible 
tattoos were also prohibited[citation needed] and players wore navy blue 
arm bands to cover them,[citation needed] although this practice has since 
been ceased. Although this is a policy that all baseball teams once had, 
the Yankees are currently the only team with such a policy (though former 
Chicago White Sox general manager Ken Williams was known for asking players 
to cut their hair, the club does not now nor during his time as GM have 
a policy banning long hair) and have gotten notoriety enforcing it. Many 
players, most notably Reggie Jackson, Jeff Reardon, Roger Clemens, Jason 
Giambi, Gary Sheffield, Johnny Damon, and Randy Johnson either had long 
hair, significant facial hair, or both before playing for the Yankees, 
but were clean-cut by the time they had their press conferences unveiling 
them as members of the Yankees. There have been some defiances of the dress 
code, however. Most notable incident involved pitcher Goose Gossage, who 
had a horseshoe mustache in deliberate defiance of George Steinbrenner. 
Jackson, though he currently sports only a mustache as a "special assistant" 
with the organization, did have a full beard during parts of his stay with 
the Yankees. Don Mattingly, the face of the franchise for the 1980s and 
the first half the 1990s, was briefly benched in 1991 for letting his hair 
grow too long and the team did not let him play until it was cut, but was 
eventually reinserted into the lineup after it became apparent that he 
was not going to cut it. Several players, including Clemens, Giambi, Sheffield, 
Johnson, Damon, David Wells, and Joba Chamberlain, grew significant facial 
hair after their departures from the organization. Journeyman outfielder 
Darnell McDonald had long dreadlocks throughout his career and had to cut 
them when joining the Yankees despite only being on their roster for three 
days when the Yankees released him. The Yankees are so well known with 
their dress code that players for other teams have been rumored to be signing 
for the Yankees if they adopt a clean-cut look before actually signing 
with them. In December 2012, San Francisco Giants pitcher Tim Lincecum, 
known for his long locks, cut his hair short. Although his hair was short 
during his rookie season with the Giants in 2007, one Twitter comment joked 
that he may be preparing to play for the Yankees in 2014, since he is entering 
a contract year with the Giants in 2013.[16] Other players have refused 
to sign with the team due to these restrictions, such as Lincecum's teammate 
Brian Wilson, who said he would never shave his trademark beard to sign 
