Lonnie Alexander "Lon" Simmons (July 19, 1923 – April 5, 2015) was an American 
baseball and football broadcaster, and was broadcasting part-time for the 
San Francisco Giants at the time of his death. He was born in Vancouver, 
Washington. Simmons was a star pitcher at Burbank High School and Glendale 
College before enlisting in the U.S. Coast Guard. After World War II, he 
signed with the Philadelphia Phillies and pitched briefly in their minor 
league system. His radio career began in Elko, Nevada, and he first announced 
baseball for a semipro league in Marysville, California. After spending 
three years broadcasting Fresno State sports on KMJ, Simmons came to San 
Francisco in 1957 as the color announcer for the San Francisco 49ers of 
the National Football League, teamed with play-by-play announcer Bob Fouts. 
In 1958, Simmons took over as play-by-play announcer on 49ers radio broadcasts, 
paired with former 49er Gordy Soltau. Simmons remained in that role through 
the 1980 season. Simmons' most famous call during his first stint with 
the 49ers came on October 25, 1964, when Minnesota Vikings defensive end 
Jim Marshall picked up a fumble by the 49ers' Billy Kilmer and ran it the 
wrong way, scoring a safety for the 49ers instead of a touchdown for the 
Vikings (who won the game anyway, by a score of 27-22). The transcript 
of his call, including his mid-sentence transition as the moment occurred, 
reads as: (George) Mira, straight back to pass ... looking, now stops, 
throws ... completes it to (Billy) Kilmer up at the 30-yard line, Kilmer 
driving for the first down, loses the football...it is picked up by Jim 
Marshall who is running the wrong way! Marshall is running the wrong way! 
And he's running it into the end zone the wrong way, thinks he has scored 
a touchdown! He has scored a safety! His teammates were running along the 
far side of the field, Russ (Hodges), trying to tell him go back![1] Simmons 
broadcast games for the San Francisco Giants with Russ Hodges after they 
moved west in 1958, continuing until 1973. He returned in 1976 for three 
more years, before moving across the bay to call games for the Oakland 
Athletics from 1981 through 1995.[2] From 1996 to 2002, he called Giants 
games part-time. During Simmons' initial sixteen years with the Giants, 
the team never won a World Series. With the 49ers, his termination as play-by-play 
broadcaster was due to the team changing radio stations, with the new station 
wanting "its own man" to become lead announcer. During the final two games 
of the 1989 World Series, Athletics' lead announcer Bill King came down 
with laryngitis. Simmons was thus able to announce to his radio audience 
that the A's had won the World Series over Simmons' former team, the Giants. 
Simmons' first tenure as 49ers play-by-play announcer lasted 24 years, 
the team never winning a championship. One year after his departure, San 
Francisco began a run of Super Bowl victories. Simmons returned as the 
49ers' announcer in 1987 and was reunited with long-time colleague, Wayne 
Walker. During the 1988 regular season, Simmons' call of Steve Young's 
breathtaking game-winning 49-yard scramble against the Minnesota Vikings 
became as memorable as the play itself.[citation needed] The following 
January, San Francisco won Super Bowl XXIII over the Cincinnati Bengals, 
20-16. Simmons' call of the 49ers' Super Bowl game-winning drive (punctuated 
by a Joe Montana-to-John Taylor TD pass) can be heard on the NFL Films 
highlights package of the game. Simmons again departed from the 49ers — 
this time for good — during the 1989 preseason following a dispute with 
the management at the 49ers' flagship station, KGO Radio. Simmons was replaced 
in the play-by-play spot by Joe Starkey, the long-time announcer for the 
California Golden Bears and an analyst with Simmons on 49ers games in 1987 
and 1988; Starkey had taken over play-by-play on several October games 
during the 1988 season. Starkey retired from the position following the 
2008 NFL season. Simmons died on April 5, 2015.[3] Simmons received the 
2004 Ford C. Frick Award, given annually by the Baseball Hall of Fame to 
a broadcaster. He was elected to the Bay Area Radio Hall of Fame in 2006 
as a member of the first class to be inducted. Also in 2006, he was inducted 
into the Glendale Community College Athletic Hall of Fame, along with his 
teammate, friend and broadcast partner, Bill Thompson.[4] Simmons' trademark 
call for home runs was "Tell it goodbye!", which is quoted by John Fogerty 
in his song, Centerfield. In May 2006, Simmons rejoined the San Francisco 
Giants as a fill-in broadcaster. He was hired back to be in the booth during 
four in-season trips to San Francisco from his home in Maui for the 2006 
baseball season. After Simmon's death in April 2015 the San Francisco Giants 
wore a "LON" patch for the 2015 Season on their jerseys to honor the longtime 
Giants broadcaster. Simmons provided voice samples for Sega's Sports Talk 
video game series, including Sports Talk Baseball, Joe Montana II: Sports 
Talk Football, NFL Sports Talk Football '93, and NFL Football '94 Starring 
Joe Montana. Joe Montana II: Sports Talk Football was the first video game 
