The historic London Tecumsehs were a professional men's baseball team in 
London, Ontario, Canada, that were first formed in 1868 — a merger of the 
Forest City Base Ball Club and the London Base Ball Club — which, according 
to George Railton's 1856 London directory, consisted of officers J.K. Brown, 
Dr. J. Wilkinson and J.D. Dalton and 22 players who practiced twice a week 
on the military grounds (today's Victoria Park). They were named for Shawnee 
chief Tecumseh. Originally, the Tecumsehs also played their home games 
at the military reserve in Victoria Park, before moving to the old fairgrounds 
on the block just northeast of Victoria Park, bounded by today's Pall Mall 
Street on the north, Wellington Street on the west, Central Avenue on the 
south and Waterloo Street on the east. An article in The New York Times 
from 1875 reports that "The Tecumseh Baseball Club, of London, Ontario, 
beat the Ætnas, of Detroit, the champions of Michigan, at London, Ontario, 
yesterday. Score, 15 to 6." This game in 1875 would have been played at 
the above-mentioned old fair grounds in London. Then in 1877, the Tecumsehs 
moved to Tecumseh Park (today's Labatt Park) in the then-London suburb 
of Petersville, also known as London West. During the 1930s, the London 
Tecumsehs were a men's hockey team playing in the International Hockey 
League, playing their home games at the now-demolished London Arena at 
Bathurst and Ridout streets in London, Ontario. Today, the name remains 
in use by numerous youth baseball teams in London, Ontario, a softball 
team in London, and also a vintage base ball team whose home field is at 
Fanshawe Pioneer Village, a living history museum in London, Ontario. Adapted 
from the British game of rounders[citation needed] — and by extension, 
cricket — the game of base ball or "townball" became popular in the early 
19th century in Southwestern Ontario (then Canada West or Upper Canada), 
New York State and New England. The first documented evidence of a base 
ball game in Canada comes from a letter published in Sporting Life magazine 
in 1886, a letter by Dr. Adam E. Ford of Denver, Colorado, formerly of 
St. Marys, Ontario, and Beachville, Ontario, about a game 48 years earlier 
in Beachville on June 4, 1838 — Militia Muster Day. Originally, the rules 
of the game were informal in nature and often modified to reflect regional 
preferences. The merger of the Forest City and London Base Ball clubs to 
form the London Tecumsehs occurred in June 1868 with John Brown as president 
— a team sponsored by the Tecumseh House hotel on the southwest corner 
of York and Richmond streets, immediately north of today's Canadian National 
railway tracks, which was demolished in the 1920s. In 1868, the Tecumsehs 
lost to the Woodstock, Ontario Young Canadians 89-46 in a five-hour game. 
Woodstock later defeated Guelph Maple Leafs 36-29 to win the Canadian Silver 
Ball Championship. During the early 1870s, the major rivals of the London 
Tecumsehs were the Guelph Maple Leafs who were sponsored by brewer/sportsman 
George Sleeman, proprietor of Silver Creek Brewery, and the Woodstock Young 
Canadians. The Guelph Maple Leafs were the first Ontario team to hire professional 
ball players from the United States to strengthen their team. When Jacob 
L. Englehart, a wealthy pioneer London oil refiner from Cleveland, Ohio, 
(and future vice president of Imperial Oil), became the president and financial 
backer of the Tecumsehs in late 1875, he too began looking for professional 
players from the U.S., later signing four Americans: first-baseman/manager 
George "Juice" Latham, pitcher Fred Goldsmith, catcher Phil Powers and 
infielder/outfielder Joe Hornung. In addition to Englehart, the Tecumsehs' 
back-room movers and shakers consisted of London newspaperman Harry Gorman, 
Ed Moore, manager of the Tecumseh House, Richard Meredith, a future chief 
justice of the Supreme Court of Ontario, William Southam, who was to found 
Southam News and to add an egalitarian touch, Jim Jury, a janitor at the 
collegiate institute. Goldsmith's first complete game with the Tecumsehs 
occurred on May 24, 1876, when London played Guelph before 6,000 spectators 
at the old Fair Grounds, a contest that London won 8-7 in 10 innings, largely 
due to Goldsmith's "scientific pitching", using his innovative "skew ball." 
(Goldsmith went on to pitch for the Troy, New York, Trojans in 1879 and 
the Chicago White Stockings from 1880 to 1884.) After the military reserve 
was donated to the City for a public park in 1874, public protests in 1875 
against the Tecumseh's use of a fenced area of the park prompted the club 
to move their games to the old Fair Grounds northeast of today's Central 
Avenue and Wellington Street, where they played until the end of the 1876 
season, during which they defeated Guelph for the Canadian championship. 
The Tecumsehs joined the fledgling five-team Canadian Association of Base 
Ball in 1876 (London Tecumsehs, Hamilton Standards, Guelph Maple Leafs, 
Kingston St. Lawrence and Toronto Clippers). The Tecumsehs won the Canadian 
title in 1876. In 1877, the Tecumsehs joined the International Association 
of Professional Base Ball Players made up of London, Guelph, Ontario, and 
several U.S. teams, a league created as a rival to the National League. 
The Association's by-laws and constitution required member teams to pay 
$10 to join the league (plus an additional $15 to compete for the championship) 
and fan admission was set at 25 cents. Visiting teams were guaranteed $75, 
plus half of the gate receipts when they exceeded that amount ($75). Pitcher 
Candy Cummings was the International Association's first president in 1877, 
while he was a player with the Lynn Live Oaks in Massachusetts. For the 
1877 season, the Tecumsehs moved into the newly outfitted, 6-acre (24,000 m2) 
Tecumseh Park in the village of Petersville on the west side of the forks 
of the Thames River (now the City-owned Labatt Memorial Park) with Richard 
Southam, brother of William Southam, founder of the Southam newspaper chain, 
the team manager. (London-born George (Mooney) Gibson, catcher for the 
1909 World Series Champions, the Pittsburgh Pirates, was a nephew of the 
Southams). Both the London Tecumsehs and Tecumseh Park were named after 
the Shawnee Chief Tecumseh who fought alongside the British against the 
U.S. during the War of 1812. Chief Tecumseh died during the Battle of the 
Thames near Chatham, Ontario, in October 1813. While the Tecumsehs were 
charter members of the International Association, the team (like all teams 
in the league) continued to play many ball games against teams in other 
leagues. One of the first games played in the new stadium took place on 
Saturday, May 5, 1877, against the Hartfords of Brooklyn, New York. The 
new field was lauded for its many amenities, including a 600-seat grandstand, 
piped-in water for maintaining the grass and facilities for scorers, telegraph 
operators and reporters. London won the International Association pennant 
in 1877 by defeating the Pittsburgh Allegheny 5-2. (compiled by Ray Nemec 
of the Society for American Baseball Research) London Tecumsehs 14-4-2* 
Pittsburgh Allegheny 13-6-0 Rochester (The Rochesters), New York 10-8-0 
Manchester (The Manchesters), New Hampshire 9-10-0 Columbus Buckeyes 9-11-2 
Guelph Maple Leafs 4-12-0 Lynn (Massachusetts) Live Oaks 1-9-0 * disbanded 
Although the 1878 Tecumseh home opener attracted 4,000 fans, the crowds 
subsequently started to drop off and the team fell into debt. Despite a 
London Free Press account about the Tecumsehs on 21 June 1939 (Fred Goldsmith 
Invented The Curve Ball), that stated the team defeated the Chicago White 
Sox in three straight games to win the title series in 1878, it appears 
the writer was in error, instead referring to a two-game series in 1877 
between the Tecumsehs and the Chicago White Stockings. On August 22, 1878, 
the club folded due to insufficient patronage. A treasure-trove of information 
about early Canadian base ball came to light in 2002 when Library and Archives 
Canada purchased (for $10,000 from an Ottawa, Ontario, bookseller) Bryce's 
Base Ball Guide of 1876 and Bryce's Base Ball Guide of 1877, two hand-coloured, 
75-page booklets published by William Bryce of London, Ontario, which were 
originally sold for a dime. The two, four-inch (102 mm) by seven-inch guides 
are considered to be the first significant publications on Canadian baseball. 
Bryce, a Scottish-born bookseller, news agent and sporting goods distributor 
in London, had a small stake in the Tecumsehs, considered by many to be 
the finest ball team in the entire Dominion of Canada. During U.S. President 
George W. Bush's visit to the Library and Archives Canada building on November 
30, 2004, he showed a special interest in these two early Canadian baseball 
books which were laid out for his perusal. See here A new Tecumseh team 
was resurrected in 1888 and 1889 in the International Association with 
Patsy Donovan one of its most notable outfield stars, and later in the 
1920s in the Michigan-Ontario Baseball League. (Charlie Gehringer, a future 
Detroit Tigers' star and Hall of Famer, played second base for the 1924 
Tecumsehs.) On September 15, 1920, with Ty Cobb in the lineup, the Detroit 
Tigers defeat the London Tecumehs 5-4 before 3,000 people at Tecumseh Park 
in exhibition baseball. Reserved seating was $1. The 1920 the Tecumsehs 
clinched the first-place pennant with 15 games to play and London led the 
Michigan-Ontario league in attendance, with an astonishing 100,686 people 
watching them play. On May 9, 1921, under manager George Gibson, the Pittsburgh 
Pirates beat the London Tecumsehs 8-7 at Tecumseh Park before 3,500 people 
in an exhibition baseball game. Before the game, Gibson and his team is 
presented with a silver loving cup by the London Kiwanis Club. Gibson thrills 
the locals by catching the opening inning with his 1909 battery mate Babe 
Adams and singling and scoring a run in his lone at-bat. London Mayor Sid 
Little entertains the team that evening at his home. On September 14, 1921, 
the Tecumsehs won the Michigan-Ontario Baseball League championship, 1-0 
over Bay City, Michigan, before 1,000 people at Tecumseh Park. London scores 
its lone run in the first inning when third baseman Doc Shay, playing his 
first game of the series because of illness, triples and scores on a sacrifice 
fly. In three games of the series, London pitcher Frank Herbst of London 
allowed six hits and only one run in 33 innings. London advances against 
Ludington, Michigan, champions of the Central League. On September 28, 
1921, London won the best-of-seven series against Ludington 4-3, taking 
Game 7 10-7 at Grand Rapids, Mich. The Tecumsehs were down 3-1 in the series. 
A few days later, London manager Buzz Wetzel is presented with a gold watch 
to commemorate the win. The normally reserved Wetzel speaks, saying, "Tried 
to do what was right and give you the best I had, and I honestly believe 
that the fans here have a right to be proud of their baseball team." On 
May 23, 1923, Washington's pitching ace Walter Johnson is in uniform but 
does not pitch as the Washington Senators defeat the Tecumsehs 13-9 in 
an exhibition baseball game at Tecumseh Park. American baseball historians 
Bill Weiss and Marshall Wright have placed the 1920 London Tecumsehs of 
the Michigan–Ontario League on the list of the Top 100 Minor League Baseball 
Teams of all-time—coming in at #52, with a record of 86 wins and 32 losses. 
On December 31, 1936, Tecumseh Park was donated to the City of London by 
the Labatt Brewing Company along with $10,000 for improvements, on the 
provisos that the park be renamed the "John Labatt Memorial Athletic Park" 
and remain a public athletic and recreational field in perpetuity. From 
a sociological-historical perspective, it could be argued that the name 
change from Tecumseh Park to Labatt Memorial Park highlights the dramatic 
shift from 19th-Century colonial Canada (where the Shawnee Chief Tecumseh 
was immortalized throughout Canada West for siding with the British in 
the War of 1812) to more modern times where businesses such as the Labatt 
Brewing Company became very influential. Today, Labatt Park is believed 
the world's oldest baseball grounds in continuous use in its original location. 
The park was designated under the Ontario Heritage Act in 1994, with the 
by-law reasons for designation amended in 1996 to include the circa-1937 
Roy McKay Clubhouse, home to the London Majors of the Intercounty Baseball 
