40.5% White British 2.2% White Irish 0.1% White Gypsy or Irish Traveller 
18.2% Other White 1.6% White & Black Caribbean 0.8% White & Black African 
1.3% White & Asian 1.8% Other Mixed 3.7% Indian 0.8% Pakistani 1.8% Bangladeshi 
0.8% Chinese 4% Other Asian 9% Black African 5.5% Black Caribbean 2.6% 
Other Black 0.6% Arab The London Borough of Enfield ( pronunciation (help·info)) 
is a London borough in north London with some districts within the borough 
straddling north-east London, England. It borders the London Boroughs of 
Barnet (to the west), Haringey (to the south) and Waltham Forest (to the 
south-east), the districts of Hertsmere (to the north-west), Welwyn Hatfield 
and Broxbourne (both to the north) in Hertfordshire, and Epping Forest 
(to the east) in Essex. The local authority is Enfield Council. Enfield 
was recorded in Domesday Book in 1086 as Enefelde, and as Einefeld in 1214, 
Enfeld in 1293, and Enfild in 1564: that is 'open land of a man called 
Ēana', or 'where lambs are reared', from the Old English feld with an Old 
English personal name or with Old English ēan 'lamb'. The feld would have 
been a reference to an area cleared of trees within woodland later to become 
Enfield Chase.[2] Enfield Town used to be a small market town in the county 
of Middlesex on the edge of the forest about a day's travel north of London. 
As London grew, Enfield Town and its surrounds eventually became a residential 
suburb, with fast transport links into central London. The current borough 
was created in 1965 from the former areas of the Municipal Borough of Southgate, 
the Municipal Borough of Enfield and the Municipal Borough of Edmonton. 
The armorial bearings of these three boroughs were also merged. The heraldic 
beast on the shield of the Enfield coat of arms is known in heraldry as 
an "Enfield" (or colloquially as the Enfield beast), and is used extensively 
as a logo representing Enfield, particularly by the borough council. In 
Roman times, Enfield was connected to Londinium by Ermine Street, the great 
Roman road which stretched all the way up to York. Artefacts found in the 
early 1900s reveal that there were Roman settlements in the areas that 
are now Edmonton and Bush Hill Park. In 790 King Offa of Mercia was recorded 
as giving the lands of Edmonton to St Albans Abbey. The area became strategically 
important as East Anglia was taken over by the Danes. In the 790s strongholds 
were built by men loyal to King Alfred the Great, in order to keep the 
Danes to the east of the River Lea. After the Norman Conquest, both Enfield 
and Edmonton were mentioned in Domesday Book. Both had churches, and Enfield 
had 400 inhabitants, Edmonton 300. Enfield is also described as having 
a "parc". This parc—a heavily forested area for hunting—was key to Enfield's 
existence in the Middle Ages (see Enfield Old Park). Wealthy Londoners 
came to Enfield first to hunt, and then to build houses in the green, wooded 
surroundings. In 1303, Edward I of England granted Enfield a charter to 
hold a weekly market, which has continued up to this day. The old market 
cross was removed in the early 20th century to make way for a monument 
to the coronation of King Edward VII, but was preserved by the horticulturalist 
E. A. Bowles for his garden at nearby Myddelton House, where it remains 
today.[3] Enfield Grammar School with its Tudor Old Hall stands next to 
the Enfield Town Market Place and St. Andrew's Church, the school having 
been extended several times since 1586. A new hall and further additions 
were completed shortly before World War II.[4] Nearby historically was 
the palace of Edward VI, where Elizabeth I lived while a princess, including 
during the final illness of Henry VIII. Edward was taken there to join 
her, so that in the company of his sister, Edward Seymour, 1st Earl of 
Hertford could break the news to Edward, formally announcing the death 
of their royal father in the presence chamber at Enfield, on his knees 
to make formal obeisance to the boy as King.[5] Later Elizabeth held court 
there when she was queen (this was remembered in the name Palace Gardens 
that was a street running behind Pearsons department store and is still 
recalled in the name of Enfield's shopping centre).[6][7] Enfield has a 
history of armaments manufacture—see Royal Small Arms Factory. The Lee–Enfield 
.303 rifle was standard issue for the British Army until 1957, although 
its usage carried on afterwards for some time. Other firearms manufactured 
there include the Bren and Sten machine guns—the "en" in both cases denoting 
the place of manufacture. The world's first solid state circuitry colour 
televisions were manufactured by Ferguson at their now closed plant in 
Enfield. The first dishwasher to be mass-produced was in Hotpoint's now 
closed Enfield plant. The Barclays Bank branch in Enfield was the first 
place in the world to have an ATM or cash machine; it was officially opened 
in June 1967 by Reg Varney, a television actor and personality most famous 
for his lead role in the comedy series On the Buses. This historical event 
was marked by a silver plaque on the wall of the bank, which has since 
been vandalised/removed and replaced with an English Heritage Blue plaque. 
A fine example of a grade II listed art deco factory building can be found 
along Southbury Road, with the former Ripaults Factory,[8] now an office 
building for Travis Perkins. The Borough's Civic Centre is located in Silver 
Street, Enfield Town and is home to the Council. Enfield Town is also home 
to the local credit union, North London Credit Union. In 2007, Enfield 
Town centre completed a major redevelopment project under the name PalaceXchange 
while retaining the Palace Gardens Shopping Centre. An extension was added 
to the existing retail area with many new shops, and a second multi-storey 
car park was built along with a new road layout. A major redevelopment 
of Edmonton Green including the shopping centre, and adjacent municipal 
housing over a wide area, started in 1999. This is still on-going, and 
provides new housing, health facilities, a new leisure centre, a supermarket, 
and many other civic features. Many local activities are located around 
the A10 road, on the sites of former industrial enterprises, which has 
a number of large retail outlets and a large multiplex Cineworld cinema. 
The cinema also plays host to Jubilee Church on a Sunday morning; whilst 
cinemagoers continue to watch films in the other screens, a charismatic 
church which draws its worshippers from a wide area, hiring several auditoria 
for worship. The western part of Enfield is largely residential, with shopping 
centres in Southgate, Palmers Green and Cockfosters. Parts of Enfield experienced 
rioting in August 2011, in which a private car and a van were set alight 
and completely destroyed, a police car vandalised (smashed windows) and 
a number of shops in Enfield Town Centre (HMV, G. Mantella, Pearsons, Argos 
etc.) as well as others in the Enfield Retail Park being broken into and 
looted. The Sony Distribution Centre in the Innova Business Park, near 
Waltham Cross, was burnt to the ground. Although early reports questioned 
whether this was an arson or a coincidental incident arrests were later 
made in connection. In September 2012, a year after the attack, a rebuilt 
Sony Distribution Centre was opened by the prime minister, David Cameron.[9] 
Elections to Enfield Council take place every four years, there are 21 
wards in the borough and three councillors are returned to each ward. Of 
the current 63 councillors there are 39 Labour members, 22 Conservatives 
and two independents meaning the Labour Group currently controls the council. 
The next Local Government Elections affecting Enfield will take place in 
2018. The London Borough of Enfield has three fire stations within its 
boundary; Edmonton, Enfield and Southgate. However, if an incident requires 
a higher attendance, appliances from throughout London can be mobilised 
to meet the needs of the area if required. Within the Borough of Enfield 
lies the North Middlesex Hospital, Shell Gases Ltd (amongst other chemical 
plants) plus several mainline and Underground stations.[10] The three fire 
stations operate a total of five pumping appliances, one rescue tender, 
a hose layer and a USAR unit.[11] Of the three fire stations within the 
borough; Enfield is mobilised to the most incidents and has the largest 
station ground (the area of which Enfield is the first appliance to attend).[12] 
Two major NHS hospitals, Chase Farm Hospital operated by the Royal Free 
London NHS Foundation Trust and North Middlesex Hospital operated by the 
North Middlesex University Hospital NHS Trus, are located in the borough. 
NHS Enfield Clinical Commissioning Group is responsible for local primary 
health care, taking over this role from Enfield Primary Care NHS Trust 
in 2013. Another hospital in the borough, Highlands, was closed in 1993. 
The London Borough of Enfield is the education authority for the district. 
Education is provided in a mix of community and voluntary aided schools.[13] 
A number of private schools are also located in the borough. The borough 
is home to the renowned Enfield Grammar School, founded in 1558, which 
since the 1960s has been a boys' comprehensive, but has retained its original 
name, and still uses its Tudor building which is now often referred to 
as the Old Hall. Enfield Grammar School is based in the center of Enfield 
Town. St Ignatius' College is the borough's largest Catholic school and 
one of the best-performing non-selective schools in the borough, at both 
GCSE and A-Level.[14] Bishop Stopford's School is Enfield's largest school, 
and The College of Haringey, Enfield and North East London also has a campus 
in the borough. In 2007 a new school named Oasis Academy Enfield was opened, 
following the takeover of Albany by the Oasis Company as Oasis Academy 
Hadley. The Latymer School is the only surviving Grammar school in the 
borough, and is based in the Edmonton area. Middlesex University, the former 
polytechnic, used to have two campuses in Enfield: Cat Hill and Trent Park. 
These sites both closed in 2011 and courses were relocated to the Hendon 
campus. Oak Hill Theological College, an associate college of Middlesex 
University, is located in the borough. Capel Manor College also offers 
various courses. Enfield's King George's Field, named in memory of King 
George V, includes the Queen Elizabeth II athletics stadium, the Enfield 
Ignatians Rugby Club and numerous football, rugby and baseball diamonds. 
The playing fields were used as a POW camp for Italians during World War 
II. The second largest playing fields are at Firs Farm on Firs Lane. There 
are a handful of rugby pitches along with more than a dozen football pitches. 
These are used by local amateur football clubs including Winchmore Hill 
FC,[15] Mayfield Athletic FC and Southgate County FC. The pitches drain 
reasonably well but are generally in poor condition with old, rusted goalposts. 
The changing facilities are also very dilapidated, with some changing rooms 
being no more than concrete sheds with corrugated roofs. Many sports teams 
and clubs are located in Enfield; Enfield Town F.C., Enfield 1893 F.C., 
Cockfosters F.C. and Winchmore Hill FC[15] are the most prominent. The 
once successful football club, Enfield FC, were forced into a nomadic existence 
after the sale of their Southbury Road ground and became defunct at the 
end of the 2006/2007 season after years of ground sharing at many Hertfordshire 
based clubs. Enfield 1893 were formed after Enfield FC's demise and have 
spent time groundsharing at Ware FC and Broxbourne Borough FC. They finally 
found a ground in the borough when they merged with Brimsdown Rovers for 
the start of the 2011/2012 season. Saracens Rugby Football Club used to 
play in Enfield and still train at Bramley Road sports ground near Cockfosters. 
Enfield Ignatians R.F.C are currently the area's most successful Rugby 
club. The principal cricket clubs in the area are Enfield,[16] Winchmore 
Hill,[17] Edmonton and Southgate, with many others playing cricket in and 
around the borough such as, Enfield Invicta, Mayfield CC, Myddleton House, 
North Enfield CC, Botany Bay and Holtwhites Trinibis CC. Many clubs play 
in either the Middlesex Cricket League or the Hertfordshire League. Enfield, 
Southgate, and Winchmore Hill have long been the area's most successful 
cricket clubs, regularly competing in the Middlesex Premier League. Enfield 
(in 1988) and Southgate (in 1977) are both past winners of the ECB National 
Club Cricket Championship Swimming clubs include Edmonton Phoenix S.C., 
Enfield S.C. and Griffins S.C. of Enfield. Futsal is also played in the 
area with FC Enfield playing in the FA Umbro Futsal League Southern Division. 
Gaelic Football is also played in the area. The club North London Shamrocks 
play at Enfield Playing Fields. Enfield Phoenix is the local basketball 
club with teams playing in the National League and the Central London League. 
The team play at the Edmonton Leisure Centre, Edmonton Green with seating 
for 400 spectators. Theatre goers are catered for by the Intimate Theatre, 
the Millfield Theatre, the Dugdale Centre[18][19] and the Chickenshed Theatre 
Company, with amateur and professional shows, dance pieces, musicals and 
live music on show. Amateur dramatic companies include Saint Monica's Players, 
The Capel Players and The London Pantomimers.[20] Talkies Community Cinema 
screens British Independent and specialist films in a range of venues across 
the borough. Tottenham Hotspur Football Club's new training ground is located 
in Enfield at Bulls Cross.[21] Enfield is the home to the annual Livestock 
Music Festival [22] It is also home to Cheerleading squads- Sapphire Elite 
Cheerleaders, North London Wildcats and Enfield Blaze All-star Cheerleaders. 
Croquet is played at Enfield Croquet Club in Bush Hill Park.[23] In 1840 
the first section of the Northern and Eastern Railway was opened from Stratford 
to Broxbourne, with stations at Water Lane (Angel Road) and Ponders End. 
Further stations were added in 1855 at Enfield Lock (Royal Small Arms Factory) 
and 1884 at Brimsdown. A branch line from Water Lane to Enfield Town was 
opened in 1849 serving Edmonton Low Level and Enfield Town. A further station 
was added in 1880 at Bush Hill Park. The direct line from London to Enfield 
Town was opened in 1872 with stations at Silver Street and Lower Edmonton 
(now called Edmonton Green). In 1891, a loop from Edmonton serving Southbury 
(Churchbury) and Turkey Street (Forty Hill) to Cheshunt on the main line 
was added. The Cheshunt and Enfield Town services are currently served 
by London Overground. In 1871 the Great Northern Railway opened its station 
on Windmill Hill. This was later replaced in 1910 when the line was extended 
to Cuffley. This section of railway is now part of the line commonly known 
as the Hertford Loop. Enfield is served by the Piccadilly line of the London 
Underground with stations at Arnos Grove, Southgate, Oakwood (named as 
Enfield West when it first opened) and Cockfosters (where the line terminates). 
Suburban London Overground and National Rail Great Northern services also 
run within the borough. There are numerous bus services throughout the 
borough run by Transport for London. The main roads running through the 
borough include the North Circular Road, the M25, Green Lanes, the A10 
and the old Hertford Road (A1010). London Buses routes 34, 102, 121, 125, 
141, 144, 149, 184, 191, 192, 217, 221, 231, 232, 251, 259, 279, 298, 307, 
313, 317, 318, 327, 329, 341, 349, 377, 382, 384, 444, 491, W4, W6, W8, 
W9, W10 School buses route 616, 617, 628, 629, 688, 692, 699, and Night 
route N29, N91 and N279. In March 2011, the main forms of transport that 
residents used to travel to work were: driving a car or van, 26.1% of all 
residents aged 16–74; underground, metro, light rail, tram, 8.2%; bus, 
minibus or coach, 8.2%; train, 7.3%; on foot, 4.0%; work mainly at or from 
home, 2.7%; passenger in a car or van, 1.6%.[24] The borough's museums 
include Forty Hall and the garden exhibitions at Capel Manor, Myddleton 
House (part of the Lee Valley Park) and the Whitewebbs Museum of Transport. 
The Borough's own museum is based in Thomas Hardy House, 39 London Road. 
Scouting and Guiding have many groups within Enfield. The annual St George's 
Day Parade has around a thousand young people marching through Enfield 
Town, led by the Enfield District Scout Band. The Boys' and Girls' Brigade 
are also quite active within the borough, participating in various ceremonies 
and events throughout the year, including the Enfield Town Show, St Georges 
Day Parade and on Remembrance Day Parade. The Air Training Corps has three 
units in the area, No.85 (Enfield & Southgate) Squadron based in Winchmore 
Hill & Enfield Town, No.1159 (Edmonton) Squadron based in Edmonton, No.1571 
(Ayleward) Squadron based in Aylward School and No.2473 (Highlands & Southgate) 
Squadron in Highlands School, Southgate. The Red Room music and film project 
ran from 2008 - 2014 based in Ponders End, aimed at 13 - 19 year olds supported 
and funded by Enfield Council. Enfield is twinned with: Coordinates: 51°38′42″N 
