Coordinates: 40°49′8″N 73°35′38″W﻿ / ﻿40.81889°N 73.59389°W﻿ / 40.81889; 
-73.59389 Long Island University (LIU) is a private, coeducational, nonsectarian 
institution of higher education with locations and programs spanning the 
New York metropolitan area, overseas, and online. The university offers 
more than 500 academic programs at two main campuses, LIU Post and LIU 
Brooklyn, as well as non-residential programs at LIU Brentwood, LIU Riverhead, 
and LIU Hudson at Rockland and Westchester. LIU has NCAA Division I and 
II athletics and hosts the annual George Polk Awards in Journalism. LIU 
was chartered in 1926 in Brooklyn by the New York State Education Department 
to provide “effective and moderately priced education” to people from “all 
walks of life.”[2] LIU Brooklyn is located in Downtown Brooklyn, at the 
corner of Flatbush and DeKalb Avenues. The main building adjoins the 1920s 
movie house, Paramount Theatre (now called the Schwartz Gymnasium), the 
building retains much of the original decorative detail and a fully operational 
Wurlitzer organ that rises from beneath the basketball court floorboards.[3] 
The campus consists of nine academic buildings; a recreation and athletic 
complex that includes Division I regulation athletic fields; one on-campus 
and two nearby residential buildings; and an adjoining parking facility. 
The campus is home to the university’s oldest school, LIU Pharmacy (Arnold 
& Marie Schwartz College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences), originally founded 
in 1891 as the Brooklyn College of Pharmacy,[4] and LIU Global, a four-year 
bachelor's degree program that allows students to live and study internationally 
in eight countries across eight semesters.[5] LIU Brooklyn is home to the 
NCAA Division I Blackbirds,[6] the George Polk Awards for excellence in 
journalism,[7] and Kumble Theater for the Performing Arts. In 1951, in 
response to the growing number of families moving to the suburbs, LIU purchased 
an 177-acre (72 ha) estate known as Hillwood from cereal heiress Marjorie 
Merriweather Post and her third husband Joseph E. Davies.[8] Located in 
the town of Brookville on Long Island's Gold Coast, the original home, 
Warburton Hall, had been built by William A. Prime and was extensively 
renovated by Marjorie and her second husband Edward F. Hutton. Three years 
later, the campus was renamed C. W. Post, in honor of Marjorie Post's father. 
In 2012, the university renamed all campuses" C.W. Post is now LIU Post, 
the university's largest campus, at 307 acres of historic 1920s mansions, 
gardens, athletic fields, art studios and performing arts space, broadcast 
television and radio stations, an on-campus sustainable energy facility, 
and the only on-campus equestrian facility on Long Island. LIU Post is 
home to the NCAA Division II LIU Post Pioneers and Tilles Center for the 
Performing Arts. On March 7, 2013, LIU named Kimberly R. Cline as its 10th 
president, becoming the first woman to lead the private, six-campus institution.[9] 
According to the Nation magazine, "before she officially assumed the role 
of president in September... hundreds of low- and mid-level administrative 
support staff, many of them long-term employees, either left or were laid 
off."[10] Dr. Cline outsourced the work of two groups of previously unionized 
workers on campus, and oversaw the lockout of 400 faculty on the day before 
the 2016-17 school year.[10] On September 1, 2016, three days after the 
union’s contract expired and five days before the union was due to vote 
on the new contract,[11] the university cut off the affected staff's email 
accounts and health insurance, and told them they would be replaced.[12] 
This is the first time that a college or university in the United States 
has used a lockout against its faculty members, according to William A. 
Herbert, executive director of the National Center for the Study of Collective 
Bargaining in Higher Education and the Professions.[13] Following the lockout, 
the American Association of University Professors released a statement 
that it "deplores this action and supports the right of the LIU Brooklyn 
faculty to collectively bargain in good faith with its administration," 
and urged the LIU administration to resume negotiations.[14] In the first 
week of the autumn term, some students at LIU Brooklyn staged a walkout 
in support of the locked-out teaching staff.[15] With the 236 full-time 
faculty members and 450 adjuncts locked out, classes were taught by university 
administrators and temporary staff, and students reported inadequate instruction.[16] 
The locked ended on September 14 with an agreement to continue the expired 
contract until May 31, 2017 and resume negotiations with a mediator.[17][18] 
LIU is administered by a president and board of trustees who elects the 
president. LIU Brooklyn includes: LIU Post includes: LIU Brentwood LIU 
Brentwood offers undergraduate and/or graduate programs in education, special 
education, literacy, mental health counseling, school counseling, psychology, 
criminal justice, and nursing. LIU Hudson LIU Hudson offers graduate and 
advanced certificate programs in business, public administration, pharmaceutics, 
education (early childhood, childhood, literacy, special education, and 
TESOL), educational leadership, school counseling, school psychology, mental 
health counseling, and marriage and family therapy. LIU Riverhead LIU Riverhead 
is home to the Homeland Security Management Institute, which offers homeland 
security training. The institute has been designated a "Homeland Security 
Center of Excellence" by the United States Congress.[citation needed] Programs 
are also available in education, special education, literacy, communication 
studies, new media, cyber security, applied behavior analysis, and TESOL. 
The LIU Brooklyn Blackbirds compete in NCAA Division I intercollegiate 
athletics. The LIU Post Pioneers compete in NCAA Division II intercollegiate 
athletics. The LIU Public Radio Network broadcasts on 88.3 FM (WPPB) and 
88.1 FM (WCWP). The LIU television broadcasts on channels 95 and 96 on 
campus only (PTV) LIU Brooklyn's student newspaper is Seawanhaka, and LIU 
