The Long Island Ducks are an American professional baseball team based 
in Central Islip, New York. They are a member of the Liberty Division of 
the Atlantic League of Professional Baseball, which is not affiliated with 
Major League Baseball. Since the 2000 season, the Ducks have played their 
home games at Bethpage Ballpark - formerly known as EAB Park, Citibank 
Park, and Suffolk County Sports Park. The "Ducks" name refers to Long Island's 
duck-farming heritage, which is further represented by the Big Duck ferrocement. 
The Big Duck is in Suffolk County, in which Central Islip is also located.[1] 
The Ducks set the independent league baseball single-season attendance 
record at the time by welcoming 443,142 fans during the 2001 season. This 
surpassed the previous record of 436,361 fans which the team had also set 
in 2000. The Ducks reached the 5 million fan mark in attendance in July 
2011 and welcomed their Atlantic League record 6 millionth fan in mid-2014. 
Bud Harrelson, a 1971 Rawlings Gold Glove Award winner, is a part-owner 
of the Ducks. He was the first manager of the team following a stint as 
the New York Mets manager. Residents of Long Island anticipated the arrival 
of professional baseball for many years, until the Ducks' inaugural 2000 
season. The New York Mets and the New York Yankees own the territorial 
rights to keep an affiliated team, Major or Minor League, from moving within 
a certain distance of their respective ballparks. Baseball fans on Long 
Island enthusiastically support the Ducks, and the team has led the Atlantic 
League in attendance in 12 of their 14 seasons. In 2007, team owner Frank 
Boulton expressed his contentment with the Ducks to Baseball America saying, 
"The Long Island Ducks are the best thing I've ever done in baseball."[2] 
Along with their success at the gate, the Ducks celebrated their first 
Atlantic League championship in 2004 when they defeated the Camden Riversharks 
in a three-game sweep to capture the Atlantic League Championship Series. 
Outfielder Justin Davies was named Championship Series Most Valuable Player. 
That summer, shortstop Kevin Baez was named the MVP of the Atlantic League 
All-Star Game, which was also held at Camden's Campbell's Field. On Monday, 
November 10, 2009, the Ducks announced that former Major Leaguer and Hall-of-Famer 
Gary Carter would be the new manager for the 2009 season. That year, he 
led the Ducks to a 74-66 record along with the Second Half Liberty Division 
championship. It would be the sixth consecutive season that the Ducks reached 
the postseason. After Carter's passing in 2012, the Ducks honored his memory 
by dedicating the season to their former skipper and wearing a commemorative 
#8 patch on their uniforms all season long. Former MLB All-stars Dontrelle 
Willis[3] and Ramon Castro[4] signed with the Ducks in 2013. Among the 
other former Major Leaguers on Long Island's roster in 2013 were Ben Broussard, 
Leo Rosales, Josh Barfield, Bill Hall, Bryant Nelson, Ian Snell and Lew 
Ford. The official colors of the Long Island Ducks are black, green, orange, 
and white. The primary logo features the "Ducks" wordmark in orange with 
black outline. The wordmark begins with a stylized, cartoon duck head in 
the form of a capital, cursive "D." The Ducks wear caps produced by FlexFit 
and uniforms by Rawlings. The home caps are black throughout with the duck 
head logo centered on the front. The away caps are black with an orange 
brim and the duck head logo. The batting helmets are black with the webbed-foot 
logo. The home jersey is white with black pinstripes with the "Ducks" wordmark 
centered across the front. The numbering on the jersey is primarily in 
green with white outline and black drop shadow. The away jerseys are grey 
with the "Long Island" cursive wordmark centered across in green with white 
and orange outline. The numbering is in green with white outline and orange 
drop shadow. The alternate is an orange jersey with the "Ducks" word mark 
centered across the chest. The Long Island Ducks won back-to-back Atlantic 
League championships in 2012 and 2013. They became the third consecutive 
team in Atlantic League history to win back-to-back league titles after 
the Somerset Patriots accomplished the feat in 2008 and 2009 and the York 
Revolution did so in 2010 and 2011. It was Long Island's second and third 
league championships, respectively, giving them the second-most titles 
in Atlantic League history behind Somerset's six. The Atlantic League uses 
a split-season format to determine playoff berths. The league consists 
of two divisions with four teams each. The division winners in the first 
half play the division winners in the second half of the season in a five-game 
divisional playoff. Then, the first-round winners meet in a five-game championship 
series. As customary in split-season playoff formats, the winners of the 
first half division are guaranteed a playoff berth. If a team wins both 
halves, a wild card team is selected to compete in the playoffs against 
said team. The wild card team is the one with the best overall record, 
regardless of division, who has failed to win either half of its division. 
In 2012, the Ducks won the First Half Liberty Division title with a 39–30 
record. It marked the second consecutive season in which the Ducks won 
the first-half title and was their third-consecutive half-season division 
title. In the playoffs, they defeated the second-half winner Southern Maryland 
Blue Crabs in five games during the Liberty Division Championship Series 
and then upset the Lancaster Barnstormers, who had won a then-league record 
88 games that year, in the Atlantic League Championship Series. Long Island 
rallied from 1–0 and 2–1 series deficits to win the series in five games 
on a walk-off bunt single by shortstop Dan Lyons in the bottom of the ninth, 
scoring Matt Esquivel as the winning run from third. For his efforts in 
Game Five, as well as his game-winning three-run triple in the ninth inning 
of Game Two, Lyons was named Championship Series Most Valuable Player. 
In 2013, the Ducks successfully defended their Atlantic League championship 
to earn their second consecutive title. After failing to clinch a playoff 
spot in the first half, the Ducks won the Second Half Liberty Division 
title by a game and a half over the Bridgeport Bluefish, which guaranteed 
Long Island its third consecutive playoff berth and ninth in 10 years. 
The Ducks were helped by the late-season signing of former Major Leaguer 
Lew Ford, who had played in the Majors as recently as 2012 and had been 
released by the Baltimore Orioles in late August 2013. He had a hit in 
16 of the 17 regular season games he participated in and went on to bat 
.412 in the playoffs. In the postseason, the Ducks defeated the Blue Crabs 
for the third consecutive season in the Liberty Division Championship Series 
by sweeping the three-game series. Long Island won games one and two at 
home before claiming the series clincher in Southern Maryland. The Ducks 
went on to face the Somerset Patriots in the Atlantic League Championship 
Series after the Patriots swept the Sugar Land Skeeters, who had won a 
league record 95 games during the regular season, in the first round. Long 
Island defeated Somerset in the first two games at home while the Patriots 
took the next two games in their park, setting up a decisive game five 
at Somerset's TD Bank Ballpark. The Ducks won the game 6-4 with the help 
of a three-run home run in the top of the fourth by Ray Navarrete, giving 
the Ducks a 4–1 lead that they would never relinquish. In a league where 
player turnover is high, as it consists of players frequently being signed 
by Major League organizations, Navarrete played for the Ducks from 2006 
to 2013. He was their longest tenured player and holds most of the team's 
offensive records. He had announced earlier in the season that the 2013 
season would be his last in professional baseball, and hit his game-winning 
home run came in his final game as an active player. Right-handed starter 
John Brownell was named Championship Series Most Valuable Player after 
he earned wins in both Game One and the decisive Game Five, pitching into 
the ninth inning of the final game. The Long Island Ducks contend with 
the Bridgeport Bluefish over the Ferry Cup, which is sponsored by the Bridgeport 
& Port Jefferson Steamboat Company. The two teams border on the Long Island 
Sound, and many fans of both teams regularly cross it to support them. 
The current Bluefish/Ducks rivalry record is 135-133 in favor of Bridgeport. 
All Friday & Saturday games are broadcast on 103.9 FM LI News Radio along 
with a select Game of the Week. The remaining games, including all home 
games, are broadcast over the Ducks' official YouTube channel and website. 
Michael Polak, Chris King, David Weiss and Chris Buckley currently serve 
as the team's official broadcasters. The Long Island Ducks' official mascot 
is an anthropomorphic duck named QuackerJack. He wears the Ducks' full 
home white uniform with green and white sneakers. He debuted on March 18, 
2000 at then-Citibank Park.[6] His name alludes to a popular baseball game 
food produced by the Cracker Jack brand, and the quacking sound of a duck. 
Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches Disabled list 
‡ Inactive list § Suspended list Roster updated March 24, 2016 Transactions 
