Long Island City (L.I.C.) is the westernmost residential and commercial 
neighborhood of the New York City borough of Queens. L.I.C. is noted for 
its rapid and ongoing residential growth and gentrification, its waterfront 
parks, and its thriving arts community.[1] L.I.C. has among the highest 
concentration of art galleries, art institutions, and studio space of any 
neighborhood in New York City.[2] It is bordered by Astoria to the north; 
the East River to the west; Hazen Street, 49th Street, and New Calvary 
Cemetery in Sunnyside to the east; and Newtown Creek—which separates Queens 
from Greenpoint, Brooklyn—to the south. It originally was the seat of government 
of Newtown Township, and remains the largest neighborhood in Queens. The 
area is part of Queens Community Board 1, located north of the Queensboro 
Bridge and Queens Plaza; it is also of Queens Community Board 2 to the 
south. Long Island City is the eastern terminus of the Queensboro Bridge, 
also known as the 59th Street Bridge, which is the only non-toll automotive 
route connecting Queens and Manhattan. Northwest of the bridge terminus 
are the Queensbridge Houses, a development of the New York City Housing 
Authority and the largest public housing complex in North America. Long 
Island City, as its name suggests, was formerly a city, created in 1870 
from the merger of the Village of Astoria and the hamlets of Ravenswood, 
Hunters Point, Blissville, Sunnyside, Dutch Kills, Steinway, Bowery Bay 
and Middleton in Newtown Township. It was a separate city until 1898.[3] 
The last mayor of Long Island City was a notorious Irishman named Patrick 
Jerome "Battle-Axe" Gleason. The city surrendered its independence in 1898 
to become part of the City of Greater New York. However, Long Island City 
survives as ZIP code 11101 and ZIP code prefix 111 (with its own main post 
office) and was formerly a sectional center facility (SCF). Since 1985, 
the Greater Astoria Historical Society, a non-profit cultural and historical 
organization, has been preserving the past and promoting the future of 
the neighborhoods that are part of historic Long Island City. The Common 
Council of Long Island City in 1873 adopted the coat of arms as "emblematical 
of the varied interest represented by Long Island City." It was designed 
by George H. Williams, of Ravenswood. The overall composition was inspired 
by New York City's coat of arms. The shield is rich in historic allusion, 
including Native American, Dutch, and English symbols.[4] In 1898, Long 
Island City became part of New York City. Through the 1930s, numerous subway 
tunnels, the Queens-Midtown Tunnel, and the Queensboro Bridge were built 
to connect the neighborhood to Manhattan. By the 1970s, the factories in 
Long Island City were being abandoned. In 1981, Queens West on the west 
side of Long Island City was developed to revitalize the area. Finally, 
in 2001, the neighborhood was rezoned from an industrial neighborhood to 
a residential neighborhood, and the area underwent gentrification, with 
developments such as Hunter's Point South being built in the area.[5] In 
2006, a resident of nearby Woodside, Hiroyuki Takenaga, proposed establishing 
a Japantown in Long Island City.[6] In addition to the Hunters Point Historic 
District and Queensboro Bridge, the 45th Road – Court House Square Station 
(Dual System IRT), Long Island City Courthouse Complex, and United States 
Post Office are listed on the National Register of Historic Places.[7] 
Long Island City was once home to many factories and bakeries, some of 
which are finding new uses. The former Silvercup bakery is now home to 
Silvercup Studios, which has produced notable works such as NBC's 30 Rock 
and HBO's Sex and the City. The Silvercup sign is visible from the IRT 
Flushing Line and BMT Astoria Line trains going into and out of Queensboro 
Plaza (7 <7> N W trains). The former Sunshine Bakery is now one of the 
buildings which houses LaGuardia Community College. Other buildings on 
the campus originally served as the location of the Ford Instrument Company, 
which was at one time a major producer of precision machines and devices. 
Artist Isamu Noguchi converted a photo-engraving plant into a workshop; 
the site is now the Noguchi Museum, a space dedicated to his work. The 
Standard Motor Products headquarters, a manufacturing site producing items 
like distributor caps, was once located in the industrial neighborhood 
of Long Island City until purchased by Acuman Partners in 2008 for $40M. 
The Standard Motor Products Building has was put on the market by Acuman 
in 2014 and acquired by RXR Realty, LLC for $110M. The former factory built 
in 1919 now houses the Jim Henson Company, Society Awards, and a commercial 
rooftop farm run by Brooklyn Grange.[8] High-rise housing is being built 
on a former Pepsi-Cola site on the East River. From June 2002 to September 
2004, the former Swingline Staplers plant was the temporary headquarters 
of the Museum of Modern Art. Other former factories in Long Island City 
include Fisher Electronics and Chiclets Gum. Long Island City's turn-of-the-century 
district of residential towers, called Queens West, is located along the 
East River, just north of the LIRR's Long Island City Station. Redevelopment 
in Queens West reflects the intent to have the area as a major residential 
area in New York City, with its high-rise residences very close to public 
transportation, making it convenient for commuters to travel to Manhattan 
by ferry or subway. The first tower, the 42-floor Citylights, opened in 
1998 with an elementary school at the base. Others have been completed 
since then and more are being planned or under construction. Today, the 
most prominent structure, other than Queensboro Bridge, is the community's 
green skyscraper, the 658-foot (201 m) Citicorp Building built in 1989 
on Courthouse Square. It is the tallest building on Long Island and in 
any of the New York City boroughs outside Manhattan.[9] Socioeconomic diversity 
is very visible in Long Island City; the Queensbridge Houses are composed 
of over 3,000 units, making it the largest public housing complex in North 
America. Eagle Electric, now known as Cooper Wiring Devices, was one of 
the last major factories in the area, before it moved to China; Plant #7, 
which was the largest of their factories and housed their corporate offices, 
is being converted to residential luxury lofts.[10][11] Long Island City 
is currently home to the largest fortune cookie factory in the United States, 
owned by Wonton Foods and producing four million fortune cookies a day. 
Lucky numbers included on fortunes in the company's cookies led to 110 
people across the United States winning $100,000 each in a May 2005 drawing 
for Powerball.[12][13][14] Online grocery company FreshDirect serves the 
greater New York metropolitan area via deliveries from a warehouse and 
administrative offices on Borden Avenue. A customer can also order online 
and come to the warehouse for pickup. The Brooks Brothers tie manufacturing 
factory, which employs 122 people and produces more than 1.5 million ties 
per year, has operated in Long Island City since 1999.[15] Long Island 
City is the new home of independent film studio Troma. On March 22, 2010, 
JetBlue Airways announced it was moving its headquarters from Forest Hills 
to Long Island City, also incorporating the jobs from its Darien, Connecticut, 
office. The airline, which operates its largest hub at JFK Airport, also 
operates from LaGuardia Airport, and made the Brewster Building in Queens 
Plaza its home.[16][17] The airline moved there around mid-2012.[18] In 
1870, the villages of Astoria, Ravenswood, Hunters Point, Dutch Kills, 
Middletown, Sunnyside, Blissville, and Bowery Bay were incorporated into 
Long Island City.[19] Dutch Kills was a hamlet, named for its navigable 
tributary of Newtown Creek, that occupied what today is centrally Queensboro 
Plaza. Dutch Kills was an important road hub during the American Revolutionary 
War, and the site of a British Army garrison from 1776 to 1783. The area 
supported farms during the 19th century. The canalization of Newtown Creek 
and the Kills at the end of the 19th century intensified industrial development 
of the area, which prospered until the middle of the 20th century. The 
neighborhood is currently undergoing a massive rezoning of mixed residential 
and commercial properties.[19][20] Blissville, which has the ZIP code 11101, 
is a neighborhood within Long Island City, located at 40°44'4.87"N73°56'9.81"W[21] 
and bordered by Calvary Cemetery to the east; the Long Island Expressway 
to the north; Newtown Creek to the south; and Dutch Kills, a tributary 
of Newtown Creek, to the west. Blissville was named after Neziah Bliss, 
who owned most of the land in the 1830s and 1840s.[22] Bliss built the 
first version of what was known for many years as the Blissville Bridge, 
a drawbridge over Newtown Creek, connecting Greenpoint, Brooklyn and Blissville; 
it was replaced in the 20th century by the Greenpoint Avenue Bridge, also 
called the J. J. Byrne Memorial Bridge, located slightly upstream. Blissville 
existed as a small village until 1870 when it was incorporated into Long 
Island City.[19] 73001251 Hunters Point is on the south side of Long Island 
City.[23][24][25][26] It contains the Hunters Point Historic District, 
a national historic district that includes 19 contributing buildings along 
45th Avenue between 21st and 23rd Streets. They are a set of townhouses 
built in the late 19th century.[27] It was listed on the National Register 
of Historic Places in 1973.[7] Long Island City is home to a large and 
dynamic artistic community. As of the 2010 U.S. Census, Long Island City 
comprises a population that is 1% Native American Indian, 10% African American, 
15% Asian or Pacific Islander, 52% White, 9% mixed race, and 15% of "other" 
demographics. There is an equal proportion of female residents to male 
residents.[32][33] Long Island City is served by the elevated BMT Astoria 
Line at two stations (N W trains) and IRT Flushing Line at four stations 
(7 <7> trains) of the New York City Subway. It is also served by the underground 
IND 63rd Street Line at one station (F train), the IND Queens Boulevard 
Line at two stations (E M R trains), and IND Crosstown Line at two stations 
(G train). The Long Island City and Hunterspoint Avenue stations of the 
Long Island Rail Road are there, as is a commuter ferry service operated 
by NY Waterway at the East River Wharf. During the summer, the New York 
Water Taxi Company used to operate Water Taxi Beach, a public beach artificially 
created on a wharf along the East River, accessible at the corner of Second 
Street and Borden Avenue.[34] It was discontinued in 2011 due to new construction 
on the site of the old landing.[35] Cars enter by the Pulaski Bridge, the 
Queensboro Bridge, the Queens–Midtown Tunnel, and the Roosevelt Island 
Bridge connecting Long Island City and Astoria to Roosevelt Island. Major 
thoroughfares include 21st Street, which is mostly industrial and commercial; 
I-495 (Long Island Expressway); the westernmost portion of Northern Boulevard, 
which becomes Jackson Avenue (the former name of Northern Boulevard) south 
of Queens Plaza; and Queens Boulevard, which leads westward to the bridge 
and eastward follows New York State Route 25 through Long Island; and Vernon 
Boulevard. Long Island City is expected to be served by the Citywide Ferry 
Service[36] starting in 2017.[37][38] The New York City Department of Education 
operates a facility in Long Island City housing the Office of School Support 
Services and several related departments.[39] Long Island City is served 
by the New York City Department of Education. Long Island City is zoned 
to: Additionally, Long Island City is home to: Long Island City is home 
to numerous high schools, a number of which offer specializations, as indicated 
below. These specialized schools are not to be confused with SHSAT-based 
high schools. Rather, these schools offer programs that are included at 
SHSAT schools. Numerous institutions of higher education have (or have 
had) a presence in Long Island City. Seven Major League Baseball players 
were born in Long Island City: Two Major League Baseball players have died 
in Long Island City: The NBA's Metta World Peace and filmmaker Julie Dash[41] 
both grew up in the Queensbridge Houses, as did hip-hop producer Marley 
Marl, and rappers MC Shan, Mobb Deep, Nas, and Roxanne Shante. Other famous 
