A long reliever is a relief pitcher in baseball who enters the game if 
the starting pitcher leaves the game early.[1] Long relievers often enter 
in the first three innings of a game[2] when the starting pitcher cannot 
continue, whether due to ineffective pitching, lack of endurance, rain 
delays, injury, or ejection. The hope is that the long reliever will be 
able to get the game under control, and hopefully his team's offense will 
be able to help get the team back into the game. The hope is also that 
the long reliever will pitch long enough to save other relievers in the 
bullpen from having to pitch. Long relievers are usually players who used 
to be starters either in the major leagues or in the minors (and still 
can be a temporary starter if one of the normal starters is injured or 
otherwise unavailable), but whose teams believe they have better starters 
available. Sometimes a team's long reliever is a former starter who has 
lost his effectiveness, either through a decline in skills or a series 
of injuries. Occasionally, long relievers are inexperienced pitchers who 
may have the potential to become starters or setup pitchers after gaining 
major league experience. The quality of long relievers can vary, but when 
the long reliever is known to be an ineffective former starter, he is often 
called the "mop up man" or "mop." A secondary use of a long reliever is 
in the late extra innings of a tied game, once the team's other, generally 
more effective, relievers have already been used. While a long reliever 
is often a team's least effective pitcher, he is still often a far better 
choice in an extended game than resorting to one of the team's starting 
pitchers (which can spread chaos throughout a pitching rotation, as everyone's 
future schedule gets adjusted), or even worse, resorting to a position 
player on the mound. A long man generally enters the game somewhere between 
the 11th and 16th innings in this role, and can be expected to pitch 5 
or more innings, before a team will be forced to resort to other options. 
Occasionally during the season, a team may find itself with enough rest 
days to allow it to use a four-man rotation rather than the now standard 
five. In these situations, a team may choose to keep their "fifth" starter 
on the roster in the long reliever role. This happens particularly in the 
post-season, when the fifth starter is a better pitcher than the "regular" 
long-reliever, allowing the team to carry either an additional short reliever, 
