The Los Angeles Times, commonly referred to as the Times or LA Times, is 
a paid daily newspaper published in Los Angeles, California, since 1881. 
It was the largest metropolitan newspaper in circulation in the United 
States in 2008 and the fourth most widely distributed newspaper in the 
country.[2] In 2000, the Tribune Company, parent company of both the Chicago 
Tribune and local television station KTLA, purchased the Los Angeles Times 
by acquiring its parent company, the Times Mirror Company.[3] The Times 
is currently owned by Tronc, Inc., formerly known as Tribune Publishing. 
The Times was first published on December 4, 1881, as the Los Angeles Daily 
Times under the direction of Nathan Cole Jr. and Thomas Gardiner. It was 
first printed at the Mirror printing plant, owned by Jesse Yarnell and 
T.J. Caystile. Unable to pay the printing bill, Cole and Gardiner turned 
the paper over to the Mirror Company. In the meantime, S.J. Mathes had 
joined the firm, and it was at his insistence that the Times continued 
publication. In July 1882, Harrison Gray Otis moved from Santa Barbara 
to become the paper's editor.[4] Otis made the Times a financial success. 
In an era where newspapers were driven by party politics, the Times was 
directed at Republican readers. As was typical of newspapers of the time, 
the Times would sit on stories for several days, notably including the 
1884 victory of Democratic presidential candidate Grover Cleveland.[5] 
Historian Kevin Starr wrote that Otis was a businessman "capable of manipulating 
the entire apparatus of politics and public opinion for his own enrichment".[6] 
Otis's editorial policy was based on civic boosterism, extolling the virtues 
of Los Angeles and promoting its growth. Toward those ends, the paper supported 
efforts to expand the city's water supply by acquiring the rights to the 
water supply of the Owens Valley in the California Water Wars, a set of 
events fictionalized in the Roman Polanski movie Chinatown. The efforts 
of the Times to fight local unions led to the October 1, 1910 bombing of 
its headquarters, killing twenty-one people. Two union leaders, James and 
Joseph McNamara, were charged. The American Federation of Labor hired noted 
trial attorney Clarence Darrow to represent the brothers, who eventually 
pleaded guilty. Otis fastened a bronze eagle on top of a high frieze of 
the new Times headquarters building designed by Gordon Kaufmann, proclaiming 
anew the credo written by his wife, Eliza: "Stand Fast, Stand Firm, Stand 
Sure, Stand True."[7][8] Upon Otis's death in 1917, his son-in-law, Harry 
Chandler, took control as publisher of the Times. Harry Chandler was succeeded 
in 1944 by his son, Norman Chandler, who ran the paper during the rapid 
growth of post-war Los Angeles. Norman's wife, Dorothy Buffum Chandler, 
became active in civic affairs and led the effort to build the Los Angeles 
Music Center, whose main concert hall was named the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion 
in her honor. Family members are buried at the Hollywood Forever Cemetery 
near Paramount Studios. The site also includes a memorial to the Times 
Building bombing victims. The fourth generation of family publishers, Otis 
Chandler, held that position from 1960 to 1980. Otis Chandler sought legitimacy 
and recognition for his family's paper, often forgotten in the power centers 
of the Northeastern United States due to its geographic and cultural distance. 
He sought to remake the paper in the model of the nation's most respected 
newspapers, notably The New York Times and Washington Post. Believing that 
the newsroom was "the heartbeat of the business",[9] Otis Chandler increased 
the size and pay of the reporting staff and expanded its national and international 
reporting. In 1962, the paper joined with the Washington Post to form the 
Los Angeles Times-Washington Post News Service to syndicate articles from 
both papers for other news organizations. During the 1960s, the paper won 
four Pulitzer Prizes, more than its previous nine decades combined. Writing 
in 2013 about the pattern of newspaper ownership by founding families, 
Times reporter Michael Hiltzik said that: The first generations bought 
or founded their local paper for profits and also social and political 
influence (which often brought more profits). Their children enjoyed both 
profits and influence, but as the families grew larger, the later generations 
found that only one or two branches got the power, and everyone else got 
a share of the money. Eventually the coupon-clipping branches realized 
that they could make more money investing in something other than newspapers. 
Under their pressure the companies went public, or split apart, or disappeared. 
That's the pattern followed over more than a century by the Los Angeles 
Times under the Chandler family.[10] The paper's early history and subsequent 
transformation was chronicled in an unauthorized history Thinking Big (1977, 
ISBN 0-399-11766-0), and was one of four organizations profiled by David 
Halberstam in The Powers That Be (1979, ISBN 0-394-50381-3; 2000 reprint 
ISBN 0-252-06941-2). It has also been the whole or partial subject of nearly 
thirty dissertations in communications or social science in the past four 
decades.[11] The Los Angeles Times was beset in the first decade of the 
21st century by a change in ownership, a bankruptcy, a rapid succession 
of editors, reductions in staff, decreases in paid circulation, the need 
to increase its Web presence, and a series of controversies. In 2000, the 
Tribune Company acquired the Times, placing the paper in co-ownership with 
then-WB (now CW)-affiliated KTLA, which Tribune acquired in 1985.[3] For 
two days in 2005, the Times experimented with Wikitorial, the first Wiki 
by a major news organization to allow readers to combine forces to produce 
their own editorial pieces. However, it was shut down after a few people 
besieged it with inappropriate material. In December 2008, the Tribune 
Company filed for bankruptcy protection.[12] The single-copy prices are 
$2 daily, $3 Sunday/Thanksgiving Day. In March 2015 the paper increased 
its daily price $0.50 (33.3%). By January 2016 its Sunday/Thanksgiving 
Day price went up $1, or 50% (at newsracks, tax included; the price is 
higher in designated state areas). In 2000, the Times-Mirror Company, publisher 
of the Times, was purchased by the Tribune Company of Chicago, Illinois, 
ending one of the final examples of a family-controlled metropolitan daily 
newspaper in the United States. (The New York Times, The Seattle Times 
and others remain.) On April 2, 2007, the Tribune Company announced its 
acceptance of real estate entrepreneur Sam Zell's offer to buy the Chicago 
Tribune, the Los Angeles Times, and all other company assets. Zell announced 
that he would sell the Chicago Cubs baseball club. He put up for sale the 
company's 25 percent interest in Comcast SportsNet Chicago. Until shareholder 
approval was received, Los Angeles billionaires Ron Burkle and Eli Broad 
had the right to submit a higher bid, in which case Zell would have received 
a $25 million buyout fee.[13] In December 2008, the Tribune Company filed 
for bankruptcy protection. The bankruptcy was a result of declining advertising 
revenue and a debt load of $12.9 billion, much of it incurred when the 
paper was taken private by Zell.[14] John Carroll, former editor of the 
Baltimore Sun, was brought in to restore the luster of the newspaper. During 
his reign at the Times he eliminated more than 200 jobs, but despite an 
operating profit margin of 20 percent, the Tribune executives were unsatisfied 
with returns, and by 2005 Carroll had left the newspaper. His successor, 
Dean Baquet, refused to impose the additional cutbacks mandated by the 
Tribune Company. Baquet was the first African-American to hold this type 
of editorial position at a top-tier daily. During Baquet and Carroll's 
time at the paper, it won 13 Pulitzer Prizes, more than any other paper 
but the New York Times.[15] However, Baquet was removed from the editorship 
for not meeting the demands of the Tribune Group — as was publisher Jeffrey 
Johnson — and was replaced by James O'Shea of the Chicago Tribune. O'Shea 
himself left in January 2008 after a budget dispute with publisher David 
Hiller. The paper's content and design style was overhauled several times 
in attempts to increase circulation. In 2000, a major change reorganized 
the news sections (related news was put closer together) and changed the 
"Local" section to the "California" section with more extensive coverage. 
Another major change in 2005 saw the Sunday "Opinion" section retitled 
the Sunday "Current" section, with a radical change in its presentation 
and featured columnists. There were regular cross-promotions with Tribune-owned 
television station KTLA to bring evening-news viewers into the Times fold. 
The paper reported on July 3, 2008, that it planned to cut 250 jobs by 
Labor Day and reduce the number of published pages by 15 percent.[16][17] 
That included about 17 percent of the news staff, as part of the newly 
private media company's mandate to reduce costs. "We've tried to get ahead 
of all the change that's occurring in the business and get to an organization 
and size that will be sustainable," Hiller said.[citation needed] The changes 
and cuts were controversial, prompting criticism from such disparate sources 
as a Jewish Journal commentary, an anonymously written employee blog called 
Tell Zell and a satirical Web site, Not the L.A. Times. In January 2009, 
the Times increased its single copy price from 50 to 75 cents[18] and eliminated 
the separate California/Metro section, folding it into the front section 
of the newspaper. The Times also announced seventy job cuts in news and 
editorial, or a 10 percent cut in payroll.[19] In September 2015, in an 
apparent struggle over localized versus corporate control,[20] Austin Beutner, 
the publisher and chief executive, was replaced by Timothy E. Ryan.[21] 
On October 5, 2015, Poynter Institute reported that "'At least 50' editorial 
positions will be culled from the Los Angeles Times" through a buyout.[22] 
On this subject, The Los Angeles Times reported with foresight: "For the 
'funemployed,' unemployment is welcome."[23] The Times's reported daily 
circulation in October 2010 was 600,449,[24] down from a peak of 1.1 million.[25][when?] 
Some attributed the drop in circulation to the increasing availability 
of alternate methods of obtaining news, such as the Internet, cable TV 
and radio[citation needed]. Others believed that the drop was due to the 
retirement of circulation director Bert Tiffany. Still others thought the 
decline was a side effect of a succession of short-lived editors who were 
appointed by publisher Mark Willes after publisher Otis Chandler relinquished 
day-to-day control in 1995.[9] Willes, the former president of General 
Mills, was criticized for his lack of understanding of the newspaper business, 
and was derisively referred to by reporters and editors as The Cereal Killer.[26] 
Other reasons offered for the circulation drop included an increase in 
the single-copy price from 25 cents to 50 cents[27] and a rise in the proportion 
of readers preferring to read the online version instead of the print version.[28] 
Editor Jim O'Shea, in an internal memo announcing a May 2007, mostly voluntary, 
reduction in force, characterized the decrease in circulation as an "industry-wide 
problem" which the paper had to counter by "growing rapidly on-line," "break[ing] 
news on the Web and explain[ing] and analyz[ing] it in our newspaper."[29] 
2004 Pulitzer Prize-winner Nancy Cleeland,[30] who took O'Shea's buyout 
offer, did so because of "frustration with the paper's coverage of working 
people and organized labor"[31] (the beat that earned her Pulitzer[30]). 
She speculated that the paper's revenue shortfall could be reversed by 
expanding coverage of economic justice topics, which she believed were 
increasingly relevant to Southern California; she cited the paper's attempted 
hiring of a "celebrity justice reporter" as an example of the wrong approach.[31] 
In early 2006, the Times closed its San Fernando Valley printing plant, 
leaving press operations to the Olympic plant and to Orange County. Also 
in 2006, the Times announced its circulation had fallen to 851,532, down 
5.4 percent from 2005. The Times's loss of circulation was the largest 
of the top ten newspapers in the U.S.[32] Despite the circulation decline, 
many in the media industry lauded the newspaper's effort to decrease its 
reliance on "other-paid" circulation in favor of building its "individually 
paid" circulation base — which showed a marginal increase in a circulation 
audit. This distinction reflected the difference between, for example, 
copies distributed to hotel guests free of charge (other-paid) versus subscriptions 
and single-copy sales (individually paid).[citation needed] In December 
2006, a team of Times reporters delivered management with a critique of 
the paper's online news efforts known as the Spring Street Project.[33] 
The report, which condemned the Times as a "web-stupid" organization,"[33] 
was followed by a shakeup in management of the paper's website,[34] www.latimes.com, 
and a rebuke of print staffers who had assertedly "treated change as a 
threat."[35] On July 10, 2007, Times launched a local Metromix site targeting 
live entertainment for young adults.[36] A free weekly tabloid print edition 
of Metromix Los Angeles followed in February 2008; the publication was 
the Times' first stand-alone print weekly.[37] In 2009, the Times shut 
down Metromix and replaced it with Brand X, a blog site and free weekly 
tabloid targeting young, social networking readers.[38] Brand X launched 
in March 2009; the Brand X tabloid ceased publication in June 2011 and 
the website was shut down the following month.[39] It was revealed in 1999 
that a revenue-sharing arrangement was in place between the Times and Staples 
Center in the preparation of a 168-page magazine about the opening of the 
sports arena. The magazine's editors and writers were not informed of the 
agreement, which breached the Chinese wall that traditionally has separated 
advertising from journalistic functions at American newspapers. Publisher 
Mark Willes also had not prevented advertisers from pressuring reporters 
in other sections of the newspaper to write stories favorable to their 
point of view.[40] Michael Kinsley was hired as the Opinion and Editorial 
(Op-Ed) Editor in April 2004 to help improve the quality of the opinion 
pieces. His role was controversial, as he forced writers to take a more 
decisive stance on issues. In 2005, he created a Wikitorial, the first 
Wiki by a major news organization. Although it failed, readers could combine 
forces to produce their own editorial pieces. He resigned later that year. 
On November 12, 2005, new Op-Ed Editor Andrés Martinez shook things up 
by announcing the firing of liberal op-ed columnist Robert Scheer and conservative 
editorial cartoonist Michael Ramirez, replacing the two with a more diversified 
lineup of regular columnists. The Times has also come under controversy 
for its decision to drop the weekday edition of the Garfield comic strip 
in 2005, in favor of a hipper comic strip Brevity, while retaining the 
Sunday edition. Garfield was dropped altogether shortly thereafter.[41] 
Following the Republican Party's defeat in the 2006 mid-term elections, 
an Opinion piece published on November 19, 2006, by Joshua Muravchik, a 
leading neoconservative and a resident scholar at the conservative American 
Enterprise Institute, was titled BOMB IRAN. The article shocked some readers, 
with its hawkish comments in support of more unilateral action by the United 
States, this time against Iran.[42] On March 22, 2007, editorial page editor 
Andrés Martinez resigned following an alleged scandal centering on his 
girlfriend's professional relationship with a Hollywood producer who had 
been asked to guest edit a section in the newspaper.[43] In an open letter 
written upon leaving the paper, Martinez criticized the publication for 
allowing the Chinese Wall between the news and editorial departments to 
be weakened, accusing news staffers of lobbying the opinion desk.[44] The 
Times drew fire for a last-minute story before the 2003 California recall 
election alleging that gubernatorial candidate Arnold Schwarzenegger groped 
scores of women during his movie career. Columnist Jill Stewart wrote on 
the American Reporter website that the Times did not do a story on allegations 
that former Governor Gray Davis had verbally and physically abused women 
in his office and that the Schwarzenegger story relied on a number of anonymous 
sources. Further, she said, four of the six alleged victims were not named. 
She also said that in the case of the Davis allegations, the Times decided 
against printing the Davis story because of its reliance on anonymous sources. 
[45] [46] The American Society of Newspaper Editors said that the Times 
lost more than 10,000 subscribers because of the negative publicity surrounding 
the Schwarzenegger article.[47] In 2016, the Times won the breaking news 
Pulitzer prize for its coverage of the mass shooting in San Bernardino 
California.[48] Through 2014, the Times had won 41 Pulitzers, including 
four in editorial cartooning, and one each in spot news reporting for the 
1965 Watts Riots and the 1992 Los Angeles riots.[49] Times sportswriter 
Jim Murray won a Pulitzer in 1990. Times investigative reporters Chuck 
Philips and Michael Hiltzik won the Pulitzer in 1999[50] for a year-long 
series that exposed corruption in the music business.[51] Times journalist 
David Willman won the 2001 Pulitzer Prize for Investigative Reporting; 
the organization cited "his pioneering expose of seven unsafe prescription 
drugs that had been approved by the Food and Drug Administration, and an 
analysis of the policy reforms that had reduced the agency's effectiveness."[52] 
In 2004, the paper won five prizes, which is the third-most by any paper 
in one year (behind The New York Times in 2002 (7) and The Washington Post 
in 2008 (6)). Times reporters Bettina Boxall and Julie Cart won a Pulitzer 
Prize for Explanatory Reporting in 2009 "for their fresh and painstaking 
exploration into the cost and effectiveness of attempts to combat the growing 
menace of wildfires across the western United States."[53] In 2011 Barbara 
Davidson was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for Feature Photography "for her 
intimate story of innocent victims trapped in the city's crossfire of deadly 
gang violence."[54] In the 19th century, the chief competition to the Times 
was the Los Angeles Herald, followed by the smaller Los Angeles Tribune. 
In December 1903, newspaper magnate William Randolph Hearst began publishing 
the Los Angeles Examiner as a direct morning competitor to the Times.[55] 
In the 20th century, the Los Angeles Express was an afternoon competitor, 
as was Manchester Boddy's Los Angeles Daily News, a Democratic newspaper.[56] 
By the mid-1940s, the Times was the leading newspaper in terms of circulation 
in the Los Angeles metropolitan area. In 1948, it launched the Los Angeles 
Mirror, an afternoon tabloid, to compete with both the Daily News and the 
merged Herald-Express. In 1954, the Mirror absorbed the Daily News. The 
combined paper, the Mirror-News, ceased publication in 1962, when the Hearst 
afternoon Herald-Express and the morning Los Angeles Examiner merged to 
become the Herald-Examiner.[57] The Herald-Examiner published its last 
number in 1989. Today the second-largest daily newspaper in Los Angeles 
is the San Fernando Valley-based Los Angeles Daily News (unrelated to the 
aforementioned defunct publication). For 69 years, from 1885[58] until 
1954, the Times issued on New Year's Day a special annual Midwinter Number 
or Midwinter Edition that extolled the virtues of Southern California. 
At first it was called the "Trade Number," and in 1886 it featured a special 
press run of "extra scope and proportions"; that is, "a twenty-four-page 
paper, and we hope to make it the finest exponent of this [Southern California] 
country that ever existed."[59] Two years later, the edition had grown 
to "forty-eight handsome pages (9x15 inches), [which] stitched for convenience 
and better preservation," was "equivalent to a 150-page book."[60] The 
last use of the phrase Trade Number was in 1895, when the edition had grown 
to thirty-six pages split among three separate sections.[61] The Midwinter 
Number drew acclamations from other newspapers, including this one from 
the Kansas City Star in 1923: It is made up of five magazines with a total 
of 240 pages – the maximum size possible under the postal regulations. 
It goes into every detail of information about Los Angeles and Southern 
California that the heart could desire. It is virtually a cyclopedia on 
the subject. It drips official statistics. In addition it verifies the 
statistics with a profusion of illustration. . . . it is a remarkable combination 
of guidebook and travel magazine.[62] In 1948 the Midwinter Edition, as 
it was then called, had grown to "7 big picture magazines in beautiful 
rotogravure reproduction."[63] The last mention of the Midwinter Edition 
was in a Times advertisement on January 10, 1954.[64] Between 1891 and 
1895, the Times also issued a similar Midsummer Number, the first one with 
the theme "The Land and Its Fruits".[65] Because of its issue date in September, 
the edition was in 1891 called the Midsummer Harvest Number.[66] In the 
1990s, the Times published various editions catering to far-flung areas. 
Editions included a Ventura County edition, an Inland Empire edition, a 
San Diego County edition, and a "National Edition" that was distributed 
to Washington, D.C. and the San Francisco Bay Area. The National Edition 
was closed in December 2004. Some of these editions were folded into Our 
Times, a group of community supplements included in editions of the regular 
Los Angeles Metro newspaper. A subsidiary, Times Community Newspapers, 
publishes the Burbank Leader, Coastline Pilot of Laguna Beach, Crescenta 
Valley Sun, Daily Pilot of Newport Beach and Costa Mesa, Glendale News-Press, 
Huntington Beach Independent and La Cañada Valley Sun.[67] Among the Times' 
staff are columnists Steve Lopez and Patt Morrison, food critic Jonathan 
Gold, television critic Mary McNamara and film critic Kenneth Turan. Sports 
columnists include Bill Plaschke, who is also a panelist on ESPN's Around 
the Horn, and Helene Elliott, the first female sportswriter to be inducted 
into the Hockey Hall of Fame. One of the Times' features is "Column One", 
a feature that appears daily on the front page to the left-hand side. Established 
in September 1968, it is a place for the weird and the interesting; in 
the How Far Can a Piano Fly? (a compilation of Column One stories) introduction, 
Patt Morrison writes that the column's purpose is to elicit a "Gee, that's 
interesting, I didn't know that" type of reaction. The Times also embarked 
on a number of investigative journalism pieces. A series in December 2004 
on the King/Drew Medical Center in Los Angeles led to a Pulitzer Prize 
and a more thorough coverage of the hospital's troubled history. Lopez 
wrote a five-part series on the civic and humanitarian disgrace of Los 
Angeles' Skid Row, which became the focus of a 2009 motion picture, The 
Soloist. It also won 62 awards at the SND awards. In 1996, the Times started 
the annual Los Angeles Times Festival of Books, in association with the 
University of California, Los Angeles. It has panel discussions, exhibits, 
and stages during two days at the end of April each year.[68] In 2011, 
the Festival of Books was moved to the University of Southern California.[69] 
Since 1980, the Times has awarded annual book prizes. The categories are 
now biography, current interest, fiction, first fiction, history, mystery/thriller, 
poetry, science and technology, and young adult fiction. In addition, the 
Robert Kirsch Award is presented annually to a living author with a substantial 
connection to the American West whose contribution to American letters 
deserves special recognition".[70] The Times Mirror Corporation has also 
owned a number of book publishers over the years including New American 
Library, C.V. Mosby, as well as Harry N. Abrams.[71] In 1960 Times Mirror 
of Los Angeles bought the book publisher New American Library known for 
publishing affordable paperback reprints of classics and other scholarly 
works.[72] The NAL continued to operate autonomously from New York and 
within the Mirror Company. And in 1983 Odyssey Partners and Ira J. Hechler 
bought NAL from the Times Mirror Company for over $50 million.[71] In 1967 
Times Mirror acquired C.V. Mosby Company a professional publisher and merged 
it over the years with several other professional publishers including 
Resource Application, Inc., Year Book Medical Publishers, Wolfe Publishing 
Ltd., PSG Publishing Company, B.C. Decker, Inc., among others. Eventually 
in 1998 Mosby is then sold to Harcourt Brace & Company to form the Elsevier 
Health Sciences group.[73] The Times-Mirror Company was a founding owner 
of television station KTTV in Los Angeles, which opened in January 1949. 
It became that station's sole owner in 1951, after re-acquiring the minority 
shares it had sold to CBS in 1948. Times-Mirror also purchased a former 
motion picture studio, Nassour Studios, in Hollywood in 1950, which was 
then used to consolidate KTTV's operations. Later to be known as Metromedia 
Square, the studio was sold along with KTTV to Metromedia in 1963. After 
a seven-year hiatus from the medium, the firm reactivated Times-Mirror 
Broadcasting Company with its 1970 purchase of the Dallas Times Herald 
and its radio and television stations, KRLD-AM-FM-TV in Dallas.[74] The 
Federal Communications Commission granted an exemption of its cross-ownership 
policy and allowed Times-Mirror to retain the newspaper and the television 
outlet, which was renamed KDFW-TV. Times-Mirror Broadcasting later acquired 
KTBC-TV in Austin, Texas in 1973;[75] and in 1980 purchased a group of 
stations owned by Newhouse Newspapers: WAPI-TV (now WVTM-TV) in Birmingham, 
Alabama; KTVI in St. Louis; WSYR-TV (now WSTM-TV) in Syracuse, New York 
and its satellite station WSYE-TV (now WETM-TV) in Elmira, New York; and 
WTPA-TV (now WHTM-TV) in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.[76] The company also 
entered the field of cable television, servicing the Phoenix and San Diego 
areas, amongst others. They were originally titled Times-Mirror Cable, 
and were later renamed to Dimension Cable Television. Similarly, they also 
attempted to enter the pay-TV market, with the Spotlight movie network; 
it wasn't successful and was quickly shut down. The cable systems were 
sold in the mid-1990s to Cox Communications. Times-Mirror also pared its 
station group down, selling off the Syracuse, Elmira and Harrisburg properties 
in 1986.[77] The remaining four outlets were packaged to a new upstart 
holding company, Argyle Television, in 1993.[78] These stations were acquired 
by New World Communications shortly thereafter and became key components 
in a sweeping shift of network-station affiliations which occurred between 
1994–1995. Notes: * From 1985 to 1990: Pulitzer Prize for General News 
Reporting; From 1991 to 1997: Pulitzer Prize for Spot News Reporting; From 
