The Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim are an American professional baseball 
team based in Anaheim, California. The Angels compete in Major League Baseball 
(MLB) as a member club of the American League (AL) West division. The Angels 
have played home games at Angel Stadium of Anaheim since 1966. The "Angels" 
name was continued by team owner Gene Autry out of tribute for the Los 
Angeles Angels, a Minor League franchise in the Pacific Coast League (PCL), 
which played in South Central Los Angeles from 1903 to 1957. The current 
Major League franchise was established as an expansion team in 1961 by 
Autry, the team's first owner, who bought the rights to the Angels name 
from Walter O'Malley, the former Los Angeles Dodgers owner, who acquired 
the PCL franchise from Philip K. Wrigley, the owner of the Chicago Cubs 
at the time. In 2009, the Angels won the AL West division championship 
for the third straight season. 2013 was the fourth straight year in which 
the team did not qualify for the postseason, but marked the 11th straight 
year in which the Angels franchise drew more than 3 million fans in attendance, 
and made 30 seasons of at least 2 million fans in attendance.[1] The "Los 
Angeles Angels" name originates from the first Los Angeles-based sports 
team, the Los Angeles Angels, who took the name "Angels" from the English 
translation of "Los Angeles", which means "The Angels" in Spanish. The 
team name started in 1892; in 1903, the team name continued in L.A. through 
the PCL, which is now a minor league affiliate of MiLB. The Angels franchise 
of today was established in MLB in 1961 after former owner Gene Autry bought 
the rights to continue the franchise name from Walter O'Malley, the former 
Los Angeles Dodgers owner who had acquired the franchise from Phil Wrigley, 
the owner of the Chicago Cubs at the time. As stated in the book Under 
the Halo: The Official History of Angels Baseball, "Autry agreed to buy 
the franchise name for $350,000, and continue the history of the previously 
popular Pacific Coast League team as his own expansion team in the MLB."[2] 
After the Angels joined the Major Leagues, some players from the Angels' 
PCL team joined the Major League Angels in 1961. An expansion franchise, 
the club continued in Los Angeles as the Los Angeles Angels, and played 
their home games at Los Angeles' Wrigley Field (not to be confused with 
Chicago's stadium of the same name), which had formerly been the home of 
the PCL Los Angeles Angels. The Angels were one of two expansion teams 
established as a result of the 1961 Major League Baseball expansion, along 
with the second incarnation of the Washington Senators (now Texas Rangers). 
The team then moved in 1962 to newly built Dodger Stadium, which the Angels 
referred to as Chavez Ravine, where they were tenants of the Los Angeles 
Dodgers through 1965. The team's founder, entertainer Gene Autry, owned 
the franchise for its first 36 years. During Autry's ownership, the team 
made the playoffs three times, but never won the pennant. The team has 
gone through several name changes in their history, first changing their 
name to the California Angels on September 2, 1965, with a month still 
left in the season, in recognition of their upcoming move to the newly 
constructed Anaheim Stadium in Anaheim at the start of the 1966 season.[3] 
When The Walt Disney Company took control of the team in 1997, it extensively 
renovated Anaheim Stadium, which was then renamed Edison International 
Field of Anaheim. The City of Anaheim contributed $30 million to the $118 million 
renovation with a renegotiated lease providing that the names of both the 
stadium and team contain the word "Anaheim".[4] The team was renamed the 
Anaheim Angels and became a subsidiary of Disney Sports, Inc. (later renamed 
Anaheim Sports, Inc.). Under Disney's ownership and the leadership of manager 
Mike Scioscia, the Angels won their first pennant and World Series championship 
in 2002. In 2005, new owner Arturo Moreno added "Los Angeles" to the team's 
name in order to better tap into the team's history and appeal to more 
Los Angeles fans as in the team's past. He also stated that as Los Angeles 
is the second largest market in the U.S., its addition would benefit the 
team greatly. In compliance with the terms of its lease with the city of 
Anaheim, which required "Anaheim" be a part of the team's name, the team 
was renamed the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. Hotly disputed when initially 
announced, the change was eventually upheld in court and the city finally 
dropped its four-year legal battle in 2009. The team usually refers to 
itself as the Angels or Angels Baseball in its home media market, and the 
words "Los Angeles" and "LAA" do not appear in the stadium, on the Angels' 
uniforms, or on official team merchandise. Local media in Southern California 
tend to omit a geographic identifier and refer to the team as the Angels 
or as the Halos. The Associated Press, the most prominent news service 
in the U.S., refers to the team as the Los Angeles Angels, the Angels, 
or Los Angeles.[5] The mantra "Win One for the Cowboy" is a staple that 
is deeply rooted in Angels history for fans. The saying refers to the Angels' 
founder and previous owner, Gene Autry, who never saw his Angels win a 
World Series in his 38 years as owner. Years went by as the team experienced 
many losses just strikes away from American League pennants. By the Angels' 
first World Series Championship in 2002, Gene Autry had died, but after 
winning the World Series, Angels player Tim Salmon ran into the home dugout 
and brought out one of Autry's signature white Stetson hats in honor of 
the "singing cowboy". Autry's #26 was retired as the 26th man on the field 
for the Angels. Angel Stadium of Anaheim is nicknamed "The Big A."[6] It 
has a section in center field nicknamed the "California Spectacular", a 
formation of artificial rocks made to look like a desert mountain in California. 
The California Spectacular has a running waterfall, geysers that shoot 
in the air, and also shoot fireworks from the rocks before every game; 
anytime the Angels hit a home run or win a game the fireworks shoot from 
the rocks as well.[6] Each game begins with the song "Calling All Angels" 
by Train being played on the P.A., with Norman Greenbaum's "Spirit in the 
Sky" being played during the team's starting lineup announcement. During 
the seventh inning stretch of every home game, the fans sing along to "Build 
Me Up Buttercup" by The Foundations. Anytime the Angels win a game, the 
saying "Light Up the Halo!", or "Light That Baby Up!" is used in reference 
to the giant landmark which is a big 230 foot tall A with a halo surrounding 
the top which lights up every time the Angels win a game.[6] Fans also 
use the saying, "Just another Halo victory", as the late Angels broadcaster 
Rory Markas, who would say the catch phrase after each win. The Angels 
organization was the first North American team to employ the use of thundersticks. 
The Rally Monkey is a mascot for the Angels which appears if the Angels 
are losing a game or if the game is tied from the 7th inning on, but sometimes 
earlier depending on the situation. The Rally Monkey appears on the scoreboard 
in various movies or pop culture references that have been edited to include 
him.[citation needed] The Rally Monkey was born in 2000 when the scoreboard 
showed a clip from Ace Ventura: Pet Detective, after which the Angels rallied 
to win the game. The clip proved to be so popular that the team hired Katie, 
a white-haired capuchin monkey, to star in original clips for later games. 
When seen, she jumps up and down to the House of Pain song "Jump Around" 
and holds a sign that says "RALLY TIME!"[citation needed] The Rally Monkey 
came to national and worldwide attention during the Angels' appearance 
in the 2002 World Series against the San Francisco Giants. In the 6th game, 
the Angels were playing at home, but were trailing the series 3-2 and facing 
elimination. They were down 5-0 as the game entered the bottom of the 7th 
inning. Amid fervid rally-monkey themed fan support, the Angels proceeded 
to score six unanswered runs over the next two innings, winning the game 
and turning the momentum of the series for good (they went on to clinch 
the championship in game 7). From 2007 to 2009, the Angels reached the 
post-season each year, sparking a renewal of the Rally Monkey's popularity. 
The Angels have developed many rivalries in and also outside of their division. 
They include the New York Yankees,[7] Boston Red Sox, Texas Rangers,[8] 
Oakland Athletics, the neighboring Los Angeles Dodgers, and occasionally 
the San Diego Padres. The Rangers and Angels rivalry has been said to develop 
over a domination in the division between the two teams, and also in recent 
years more animosity between the two teams due to the amount of former 
players from each team playing for the division rival. Angels players such 
as Mike Napoli, Darren Oliver, Vladimir Guerrero, and Texas player C. J. 
Wilson are all acquisitions the two division rivals made of former rival 
players. In 2012 former Texas pitcher C. J. Wilson played a joke on former 
teammate Mike Napoli in tweeting his phone number, causing Napoli to exchange 
words with Wilson.[9] The feuds go back to Angels Adam Kennedy and Rangers 
Gerald Laird arguing leading to punches being thrown multiple times causing 
small fights between the teams in the past.[10] The two teams each had 
a perfect game against each other, including Mike Witt in 1984 at Arlington 
Stadium and Kenny Rogers in 1994 at The Ballpark in Arlington. The Angels 
and Yankees rivalry can be seen as stemming from heated play between the 
two teams through the years, including several times in the playoffs. For 
the past 20 years the Angels are also the only team in the majors to have 
a winning record against the Yankees, especially in 1998 when there was 
concern from New York sportswriters that the Angels could upset the Yankees 
in the Division Series. The Angels missed the playoffs, and the Yankees 
went on to win later that year. The Angels would knock off the Yankees 
four years later in the 2002 ALDS.[11] Coincidental enough, the former 
PCL Angels were nicknamed "Yankees West" due to the success the team had, 
and even held multiple scrimmage games between the two in the old Wrigley 
Field in Los Angeles during spring training throughout the 30s, 40s, and 
50s.[12][13] The rivalry with the Los Angeles Dodgers has been referred 
to as the Freeway Series because of the freeway system (mostly via I-5) 
linking the two teams' home fields.[14] The Freeway Series rivalry developed 
mostly over the two teams sharing similar regions and fans having been 
split in Los Angeles, similar to the Chicago Cubs vs. Chicago White Sox 
rivalry, the San Francisco Giants vs. Oakland A's rivalry, or the New York 
Mets vs. New York Yankees rivalry. The Angels have drawn more than 3 million 
fans to the stadium for twelve years straight, and at least 2 million for 
17 seasons, and a game average in 2010, 2011, 2012, & 2013 of 40,000 fans 
at each game despite not making the playoffs all four years.[15] This is 
2nd in all of MLB, only trailing the New York Yankees. In 2014, the Angels 
were fifth in the MLB in attendance, with a total of 3,095,935 people.[16] 
As of 2015, the Angels fans have set 6 Guinness World Records for the largest 
gatherings of people wearing blankets, wrestling masks, cowboy hats, wigs, 
Santa hats, and sombreros. In 2009, the Angels were voted the number one 
franchise in professional sports in Fan Value by ESPN magazine.[17] In 
2011, ESPN & Fan polls by ESPN ranked the Angels #4 in the best sports 
franchises, ahead of every Major League team in baseball at #1 and also 
making it the #1 sports franchise in Los Angeles. The rankings were determined 
through a combination of sports analysts and fan votes ranking all sports 
franchises by a combination of average fan attendance, fan relations, "Bang 
for your Buck" or winning percentage over the past 3 years, ownership, 
affordability, stadium experience, players effort on the field and likability, 
coaching, and "Title Track". The Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim have used 
ten different logos and three different color combinations throughout their 
history. Their first two logos depict a baseball with wings and a halo 
over a baseball diamond with the letters "L" and "A" over it in different 
styles. The original team colors were the predominantly blue with a red 
trim. This color scheme would be in effect for most of the franchise's 
history lasting from 1961 to 1996. In 1966, after the club's move to Anaheim, 
the team name changed from the "Los Angeles Angels" to the "California 
Angels", along with the name change, the logo changed as well. During the 
31 years of being known as the "California Angels", the team kept the previous 
color scheme, however, their logo did change six times during this period. 
The first logo under this name was very similar to the previous "LA" logo, 
the only difference was instead of an interlocking "LA", there was an interlocking 
"CA." Directly after this from 1971 to 1985, the Angels adopted a logo 
that had the word "Angels" written on an outline of the State of California. 
Between the years 1971–1972 the "A" was lower-case while from 1973 to 1985 
it was upper-case. It was in 1965, while the stadium was being finished, 
that Bud Furillo (of the Herald Examiner) coined its nickname, "the Big 
A" after the tall letter A that once stood beyond left-center field and 
served as the arena's primary scoreboard (it was later relocated to a section 
of the parking lot, south-east of the stadium). In 1986, the Angels adopted 
the "big A" on top of a baseball as their new logo, with the shadow of 
California in the background. After the "big A" was done in 1992, the Angels 
returned to their roots and re-adopted the interlocking "CA" logo with 
some differences. The Angels used this logo from 1993 to 1996, during that 
time, the "CA" was either on top of a blue circle or with nothing else. 
After the renovations of then-Anaheim Stadium and the takeover by the Walt 
Disney Company, the Angels changed their name to the "Anaheim Angels" along 
with changing the logo and color scheme. The first logo under Disney removed 
the halo and had a rather cartoon-like "ANGELS" script with a wing on the 
"A" over a periwinkle plate and crossed bats. With this change, the Angels' 
color scheme changed to dark blue and periwinkle. After a run with the 
"winged" logo from 1997 to 2001, Disney changed the Angels's logo back 
to a "Big A" with a silver logo over a dark blue baseball diamond. With 
this logo change, the colors changed to the team's current color scheme: 
predominantly red with some dark blue and white. When the team's name changed 
from the "Anaheim Angels" to the "Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim", the logo 
changed only slightly, the name "ANAHEIM ANGELS" and the blue baseball 
diamond were removed leaving only the "Big A." For the 2011 season, as 
part of the 50th anniversary of the Angels franchise, the halo on the 'Big 
A' logo temporarily changed colors from silver to old gold, paying tribute 
to the Angels logos of the past. The uniforms also reflected the change 
to the gold halo for this season. During the 50th Anniversary season the 
players have worn throwback jerseys at each Friday home game reflecting 
all the different logos and uniforms previously worn by players. Also Angels 
alumni from past season during the 50th year throw out the first Angels 
pitch at every home game. A new patch was added on the uniforms before 
the 2012 season, featuring a red circle encircling the words "Angels Baseball" 
and the club logo inside and flanking the year 1961 in the middle, which 
was the year the Angels franchise was established. As of 2009[update], 
the Angels' flagship radio station is KLAA 830AM, which is owned by the 
Angels themselves and ESPN.[18] It replaces KSPN (710 ESPN), on which frequency 
had aired most Angels games since the team's inception in 1961. That station, 
then KMPC, aired games from 1961 to 1996. In 1997 & 1998, the flagship 
station became KIEV (1110AM). In 1999, it was replaced by KLAC for four 
seasons, including the 2002 World Series season. The Angels 2010 broadcast 
line-up was thrown into doubt with the death of Rory Markas in January 
2010. The Angels had announced in November 2009 that Markas and Mark Gubicza 
would broadcast Angels' televised games, with Terry Smith and José Mota 
handling the radio side.[19] At the same time, the Angels announced that 
Steve Physioc and Rex Hudler would not return to the broadcasting team. 
On March 3, 2010 it was announced that Victor Rojas will replace Markas.[20] 
In 2008, KLAA broadcast spring training games on tape delay from the beginning 
on February 28 to March 9 because of advertiser commitments to some daytime 
talk shows. Those games were available live only online. Live preseason 
broadcasts were to begin on March 10.[21] In 2009, KFWB 980AM started broadcasting 
110 weekday games, including postseason games, to better reach listeners 
in Los Angeles County and other areas to the north.[22] All 162 games plus 
post season games still air on KLAA. In 2010, KSPN 710AM broadcast at least 
60 weekday games. This was a partial return to their old station from 2007.[23] 
Angels radio broadcasts are also in Spanish on KWKW 1330AM and KWKU 1220AM. 
Fox Sports West holds the exclusive rights to the regional telecasts of 
approximately 150 Angels home and away games.[24] Fox owned and operated 
MyNetworkTV affiliate KCOP-TV broadcast select games from 2006 to 2011, 
but opted to move those games to Fox Sports West in 2012. As all MLB teams, 
select national Angels telecasts can be found on Fox, ESPN, TBS or MLB 
Network. During Disney's ownership of the franchise, the company planned 
to start an ESPN West regional sports network in 1999, which would also 
carry Anaheim Mighty Ducks ice hockey games, but the plan was abandoned.[25] 
During the 2009 season, Physioc and Hudler called about 100 games, while 
Markas and Gubicza had the remaining game telecasts (about 50, depending 
on ESPN and Fox exclusive national schedules). The split arrangement dated 
back to the 2007 season, when Mota and Gubicza were the second team. Markas 
debuted on TV in a three-game series at the Toronto Blue Jays in August 
2007. Mota, who is bilingual and the son of former Dodger Manny Mota, has 
also called Angels games in Spanish, and at one time did analysis from 
the dugout rather than the usual booth position. All locally broadcast 
games are produced by FSN regardless of the outlet actually showing the 
games. Dick Enberg, who broadcast Angels baseball in the 1970s, is the 
broadcaster most identified with the Angels, using such phrases as "Oh, 
my!", "Touch 'em all!" after Angel home runs, and "The halo shines tonight!". 
Other former Angels broadcasters over the past three decades include Buddy 
Blattner, Don Wells, Dave Niehaus, Don Drysdale, Bob Starr, Joe Torre, 
Paul Olden, Al Wisk, Al Conin, Mario Impemba, Sparky Anderson, Jerry Reuss, 
Ken Wilson, Ken Brett, and Ron Fairly. Jerry Coleman also spent time with 
the Angels organization in the early-1970s as a pre-game and post-game 
host before joining the San Diego Padres broadcast team. From 1994 until 
the end of the 2012 season, the public address announcer for most Angels 
home games was David Courtney, who also served as the public address announcer 
for the Los Angeles Kings and Los Angeles Clippers and a traffic reporter 
for Angels flagship KLAA 830 AM until his death on November 29, 2012,.[26] 
Starting in the 2013 season, Michael Araujo, the PA Announcer for the LA 
Galaxy since 2002, was selected as the new public address announcer for 
the Angels.[27] Anaheim Ducks announcer Phil Hulett serves as the secondary 
public address announcer. Walt Disney Pictures remade the 1951 film Angels 
in the Outfield in 1994 with the California Angels as the team that receives 
heavenly assistance. The team is also featured in the 1988 comedy film 
The Naked Gun. The 1990 comedy Taking Care of Business features a world 
series matchup between the Chicago Cubs and the California Angels. The 
1991 movie Talent for the Game features Edward James Olmos as a baseball 
scout for the California Angels. During Disney's ownership of the Angels, 
the team was also featured in Air Bud: Seventh Inning Fetch, Deuce Bigalow: 
Male Gigolo, and TV movie Angels in the Infield. The Angels have a team 
Hall of Fame,[28] with the following members: As of the 2015 Hall of Fame 
election, no inducted members have elected to be depicted wearing an Angels 
cap on their plaque. However, several Hall of Famers have spent part of 
their careers with the Angels,[29] and the Hall lists the Angels as the 
"primary team"[30] of two inductees, Rod Carew and Nolan Ryan.[31] Bert 
Blyleven Rod Carew Whitey Herzog Reggie Jackson Frank Robinson Nolan Ryan 
Don Sutton Hoyt Wilhelm Dick Williams Dave Winfield Rickey Henderson Eddie 
Murray Jerry Coleman Dick Enberg Joe Garagiola Pitchers Catchers Infielders 
Outfielders Manager Coaches 40 active, 0 inactive, 0 non-roster invitees 
7- or 15-day disabled list * Not on active roster † Suspended list Roster, 
coaches, and NRIs updated November 9, 2016 Transactions • Depth Chart → 
