Coordinates: 34°N 118°W﻿ / ﻿34°N 118°W﻿ / 34; -118 The Los Angeles metropolitan 
area, also known as Metropolitan Los Angeles or the Southland,[1] is the 
18th largest metropolitan area in the world and the second-largest metropolitan 
area in the United States.[2] It is entirely located in the southern portion 
of the U.S. State of California. The metropolitan area is defined by the 
Office of Management and Budget as the Los Angeles-Long Beach-Anaheim, 
CA Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA), consisting of Los Angeles and Orange 
counties, a metropolitan statistical area used for statistical purposes 
by the United States Census Bureau and other agencies.[3] Its land area 
is 4,850 sq. mi (12,562 km²). Los Angeles and Orange counties are the first 
and third most populous counties in California respectively, and Los Angeles, 
with 9,819,000 people in 2010, is the most populous county in the United 
States. The combined Los Angeles metropolitan area is home to 18.2 million 
people, making it the most populous metropolitan area in the western United 
States and the largest in area in the United States. The metro area has 
at its core the Los Angeles-Long Beach-Anaheim corridor, an urbanized area 
defined by the Census Bureau with a population 12,150,996 as of the 2010 
Census. The Census Bureau also defines a wider region based on commuting 
patterns, the Los Angeles-Long Beach, CA Combined Statistical Area (CSA), 
more commonly known as the Greater Los Angeles Area, with an estimated 
population of 18,550,288 in 2014.[4] This includes the three additional 
counties of Ventura, Riverside, and San Bernardino. The total land area 
of the combined statistical area is 33,955 sq. mi (87,945 km²). The counties 
and county groupings comprising the Los Angeles Metropolitan Area are listed 
below with 2012 U.S. Bureau of the Census estimates of their populations.[5] 
Los Angeles-Long Beach-Anaheim, CA Metropolitan Statistical Area (12,828,837) 
Major divisions of the Los Angeles-Long Beach-Anaheim, CA Metropolitan 
Statistical Area In addition to the Los Angeles-Long Beach-Anaheim, CA 
Metropolitan Statistical Area, the following Metropolitan Statistical Areas 
are also included in the Los Angeles-Long Beach, CA Combined Statistical 
Area (total pop. 18,238,998):[5] The Los Angeles-Long Beach, CA CSA is 
a multicore metropolitan region containing several urban areas. The combined 
statistical area is a multicore metropolitan region containing several 
urban areas. The following is a list of cities with populations over 50,000 
in the Los Angeles metropolitan area with 2011 United States Census Bureau 
estimates of their population.[6] Cities in bold are considered principal 
cities of the metropolitan area by the Census Bureau, which represent significant 
employment centers:[7] The economy of the Los Angeles metropolitan area 
is famously and heavily based on the entertainment industry, with a particular 
focus on television, motion pictures, interactive games, and recorded music 
– the Hollywood district of Los Angeles and its surrounding areas are known 
as the "movie capital of the United States" due to the region's extreme 
commercial and historical importance to the American motion picture industry. 
Other significant sectors include shipping/international trade – particularly 
at the adjacent Port of Los Angeles and Port of Long Beach, together comprising 
the United States' busiest seaport – as well as aerospace, technology, 
petroleum, fashion and apparel, and tourism. The City of Los Angeles is 
home to five Fortune 500 companies: energy company Occidental Petroleum, 
healthcare provider Health Net, metals distributor Reliance Steel & Aluminum, 
engineering firm AECOM, and real estate group CB Richard Ellis. Other companies 
headquartered in Los Angeles include American Apparel, City National Bank, 
20th Century Fox, Latham & Watkins, Univision, Metro Interactive, LLC, 
Premier America, Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, DeviantArt,[8] Guess?, O’Melveny 
& Myers; Paul, Hastings, Janofsky & Walker, Tokyopop, The Jim Henson Company, 
Paramount Pictures, Sunkist Growers, Incorporated, Tutor Perini, Fox Sports 
Net, Capital Group, and The Coffee Bean & Tea Leaf. Korean Air's US passenger 
and cargo operations headquarters are located in two separate offices in 
Los Angeles.[9] Entertainment and media giant The Walt Disney Company is 
headquartered in nearby Burbank. The Los Angeles-Orange County metro area 
alone has an enormous economy, roughly $866 billion estimated for 2014,[10] 
or the total economic output/income of Indonesia's 250 million people, 
indeed (crazy coastal California land values) and the rents they command 
contribute heavily to GDP earnings, at the expense of home affordability 
and thus future GDP increase. This is evident when comparing the coast 
with the Inland Empire, a large component of the 5 county combined statistical 
area (CSA) that nevertheless contributes a far smaller portion to regional 
gross metropolitan product but still dominates in industry. The Southland 
CSA is third largest economic center in the world, after the Greater Tokyo 
Area and the New York-Newark-Bridgeport CSA.[11] The Port of Los Angeles 
and Port of Long Beach together comprise the fifth busiest port in the 
world being the center of imports and exports for trade on the west Pacific 
Coast as well as being one of the most significant ports of the western 
hemisphere. The Port of Los Angeles occupies 7,500 acres (3,035 hectares) 
of land and water along 43 miles (69 kilometres) of waterfront and is the 
busiest container port in the United States. The Port is the busiest port 
in the United States by container volume, the 8th busiest container port 
in the world.[12][13][14] The top trading partners in 2004 were: China 
($68.8 billion), Japan ($24.1 billion), Taiwan ($10.8 billion), Thailand 
($6.7 billion), & South Korea ($5.6 billion) The Port of Long Beach is 
the 2nd busiest container port in the United States. It adjoins the separate 
Port of Los Angeles. Acting as a major gateway for U.S.-Asian trade, the 
port occupies 3,200 acres (1,295 hectares) of land with 25 miles (40 kilometres) 
of waterfront in the city of Long Beach, California. The seaport boasts 
approximately $100 billion in trade and provides more than 316,000 jobs 
in Southern California. The Port of Long Beach import and export more than 
$100 billion worth of goods every year. The seaport provides the country 
with jobs, generates tax revenue, and supports retail and manufacturing 
businesses. Long Beach-Los Angeles- Anaheim The Long Beach Los Angeles 
Anaheim metropolitan statistical area is located in the southern part of 
California. In 2014, the metro area’s population reached 13,262,220 and 
ranked 2nd in the United States — a 1 percent increase from 2013.[1] In 
2014, Los Angeles-Long Beach-Anaheim had a per capita personal income (PCPI) 
of $50,751 and ranked 29th in the country. [2] In 2014, Los Angeles-Long 
Beach-Anaheim placed 3rd among the largest exporters in the United States 
(shipment totaling to $75.5 billion). The metro accounted for 40.8 percent 
of California’s merchandise exports, mainly exporting computer and electronic 
products ($18.6 billion); transportation equipment ($15.3 billion) and 
chemicals ($5.6 billion)[3]. Nonetheless, the greater Los Angeles metro 
has immensely benefited from the free trade agreements such that greater 
Los Angeles exported $25.1 billion to the NAFTA region and $776 million 
in goods to the CAFTA region.[4] Overall, in 2014 the average wages and 
salaries reached $57, 519 (in 2010, the average wages and salaries reached 
$54, 729).[5] Meanwhile, the median household income in 2014 was $56, 935, 
a 1.4 percent increase from 2013 (average median household income was $56, 
164). [6] Table 2 (refer below) is a chart of the four highest sectors 
in the metro area, with health care and social assistance reaching 15.54% 
Table 3 (refer below) displays the location quotient for employment in 
the Los Angeles-Long Beach-Anaheim MSA. Top three sectors include information; 
art, entertainment, and recreation; and real estate and rental and leasing. 
Table 3. Data obtained from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. 2014. Data 
measures Location Quotient for sectors in the MSA area. U.S. Total is the 
base areas. http://data.bls.gov/location_quotient/ControllerServlet [1] 
http://proximityone.com/metros/2013/cbsa31080.htm#6.4 [2] Los Angeles- 
Long Beach- Anaheim [3] Los Angeles- Long Beach- Anaheim [4] Los Angeles- 
Long Beach- Anaheim [5] http://proximityone.com/metros/2013/cbsa31080.htm#6 
Dollar items are in current dollars (not adjusted for inflation). Per capita 
items in dollars; other dollar items in thousands of dollars. - See more 
at: http://proximityone.com/metros/2013/cbsa31080.htm#6 [6] http://www.meyersresearchllc.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/Zonda_Market_Report_CA_Los-Angeles-Long-Beach-Anaheim.pdf 
There are nine electric utility power companies in the Los Angeles metropolitan 
area. Southern California Edison serves a large majority of the Los Angeles 
metropolitan area except for Los Angeles city limits, Burbank, Glendale, 
Pasadena, Azusa, Vernon, Anaheim, and southern Orange County. Southern 
Orange County is part of the Los Angeles metropolitan area and it is served 
by San Diego Gas & Electric. There are three natural gas providers in the 
metropolitan area. Southern California Gas Company serves a large majority 
of the Los Angeles metropolitan area except for Long Beach and southern 
Orange County. The Los Angeles metropolitan area is served by the following 
utility companies. Electricity Natural Gas Cable TV According to the 2009 
American Community Survey, the Los Angeles Metropolitan Area had a population 
of 12,874,797, of which 6,402,498 (49.7% of the population) were male and 
6,472,299 (50.3% of the population) were female. The age composition was 
the following: Median age: 34.6 years According to the survey, the Los 
Angeles Metropolitan Area was 54.6% White (32.2% non-Hispanic White alone), 
7.0% Black or African American, 0.5% American Indian and Alaska Native, 
13.9% Asian, 0.3% Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander, 20.6% from 
Some other race, and 3.2% from Two or more races. Hispanics or Latinos 
of any race made up 44.8% of the population. Whites are the racial majority; 
whites of both Hispanic and non-Hispanic origin make up 54.6% of the population. 
Non-Hispanic whites make up under one-third (32.2%) of the population. 
Approximately 7,028,533 residents are white, of which 4,150,426 are non-Hispanic 
whites. The top five European ancestries are the following: Blacks are 
a sizable minority; blacks of both Hispanic and non-Hispanic origin make 
up 7.0% of the population. Non-Hispanic blacks make up 6.7% of the population. 
Approximately 895,931 residents are black, of which 864,737 are non-Hispanic 
blacks. In the survey, 136,024 people identified their ancestry as "Sub-Saharan 
African", equal to 1.1% of the population. American Indians are a small 
minority; American Indians of both Hispanic and non-Hispanic origin make 
up 0.5% of the population. American Indians of non-Hispanic origin make 
up 0.2% of the populace. Approximately 68,822 residents are American Indian, 
of which 26,134 are American Indians of non-Hispanic origin. Approximately 
3,872 Cherokee, 1,679 Navajo, 1,000 Chippewa, and 965 Sioux reside in the 
area. Asians are a large minority; Asians of both Hispanic and non-Hispanic 
origin make up 13.9% of the population. Asians of non-Hispanic origin make 
up 13.7% of the population. Approximately 1,790,140 residents are Asian, 
of which 1,770,225 are Asians of non-Hispanic origin. The six Asian ancestries 
mentioned are the following: "Other Asian" is an additional category that 
includes people who did not identify themselves as any of the groups above. 
This group includes people of Cambodian, Laotian, Pakistani, Burmese, Taiwanese, 
and Thai descent, among others. Approximately 166,665 people are in this 
category, and they make up 1.3% of the population. Native Hawaiians and 
other Pacific Islanders are a very small minority; Native Hawaiians and 
other Pacific Islanders make up 0.3% of the population. Approximately 37,719 
residents are Native Hawaiian or of other Pacific Islander ancestries, 
of which 33,982 are of non-Hispanic origin. The three Pacific Islander 
ancestries mentioned are the following: "Other Pacific Islander" is an 
additional category that includes people who did not identify themselves 
as any of the groups above. This group includes people of Fijian and Tongan 
descent, among others. Approximately 12,764 people are in this category, 
and they make up 0.1% of the population. Multiracial individuals are a 
sizable minority; multiracial people of both Hispanic and non-Hispanic 
origin make up 3.2% of the population, of which 1.8% were of non-Hispanic 
origin. Approximately 405,568 people are multiracial, of which 228,238 
are of non-Hispanic origin. The four multiracial ancestries mentioned are 
the following: Hispanic or Latinos, are, by far, the largest minority group; 
Hispanics or Latinos make up 44.8% of the population. They do not make 
up a majority, but they make up a plurality, outnumbering every other individual 
racial group. Approximately 5,763,181 residents are Hispanic or Latino. 
The three Hispanic or Latino ancestries mentioned are the following: "Other 
Hispanic or Latino" is an additional category that includes people who 
did not identify themselves as any of the groups above. This group include 
people of Costa Rican, Salvadoran, and Colombian descent, among others. 
Approximately 1,096,569 people are in this category, and they make up 8.5% 
of the population. Source 1:[16] Source 2:[17] Due to L.A.'s stance as 
The Entertainment Capital of the World, there are an abundance of tourist 
attractions in the area. Consequently, the metropolitan L.A. is one of 
the most visited areas in the world. Here is a breakdown of some of its 
major attractions: See also, Los Angeles City Museums The primary airport 
serving the LA metro area is Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), one 
of the busiest airports in the United States. LAX is located in southwestern 
Los Angeles, 16 miles (26 km) from Downtown Los Angeles. LAX is the only 
airport to serve as a hub for all three U.S. legacy airlines —American, 
Delta and United. In addition to LAX, other airports, including Bob Hope 
Airport, John Wayne Airport, Long Beach Airport, and LA/Ontario International 
Airport, also serve the region. The Metro Rail is the mass transit rail 
system of Los Angeles County. It is run by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan 
Transportation Authority and its system runs five rail lines throughout 
Los Angeles County. Metro Rail currently operates four light rail lines 
and two rapid transit subway lines, altogether totaling 87.7 miles (141.1 km) 
of rail, 101 stations, and over 360,000 daily weekday boardings as of December 
2012[update].[20] The systems light rail system is the second busiest LRT 
system in the United States, after Boston, by number of riders, with 200,300 
average weekday boardings during the third quarter of 2012.[21] Since the 
region of the city is in close proximity to a major fault area the tunnels 
were built to resist earthquakes of up to magnitude 7.5. Both subway lines 
use an electrified third rail to provide power to the trains, rendering 
these lines unusable on the other three. The Blue and Gold Lines run mostly 
at grade, with some street-running, elevated, and underground stretches 
in the more densely populated areas of Los Angeles. The Green Line is entirely 
grade separated, running in the median of I-105 and then turning southward 
along an elevated route. The rail lines run regularly on a 5 am and midnight 
schedule, seven days a week. Limited service on particular segments is 
provided after midnight and before 5 am There is no rail service between 
2 and 3:30 am Exact times vary from route to route; see individual route 
articles for more information. There are two providers of heavy rail transportation 
in the region, Amtrak and Metrolink. Amtrak provides service to San Diego, 
Santa Barbara, San Luis Obispo, and points in between on the Pacific Surfliner. 
It also provides long-distance routes, including the Coast Starlight which 
goes to the San Francisco Bay Area, Portland, Oregon, and Seattle, Washington; 
the Southwest Chief which goes to Flagstaff, Arizona, Albuquerque, New 
Mexico, and Chicago; and the Sunset Limited which provides limited service 
(three days a week) to Tucson, El Paso, Houston, and New Orleans. Metrolink 
provides service to numerous places within Southern California, including 
all counties in the region. Metrolink operates to 55 stations on seven 
lines within Southern California which mostly (except for the Inland Empire-Orange 
County Line) radiate from Los Angeles Union Station. The following is the 
list of ZIP codes for select areas within the metropolitan area. Orange 
County Los Angeles County As a whole, the Los Angeles area has more national 
championships, all sports combined (college and professional), than any 
other city in the United States, with over four times as many championships 
as the entire state of Texas, and just over twice that of New York City.[22] 
Listing of the professional sports teams in the Los Angeles metropolitan 
area Note # symbol means venue has held an Olympic event. The Los Angeles 
metropolitan area is home to the headquarters of several well-known media 
companies including: the Los Angeles Times, Fox Broadcasting Company, Universal 
Studios, and The Walt Disney Company. Local television channels include 
KCBS-TV 2 (CBS), KNBC 4 (NBC), KTLA 5 (CW), KABC 7 (ABC), KCAL-TV 9 (Independent/CBS), 
KTTV 11 (FOX), KCOP 13 (myNetworkTV), KPXN-TV 38/30 (Ion), and KLCS 41/58 
(PBS). Radio stations serving the area include: KKJZ, KIIS, KNX (AM), and 
KBOQ. Much of the west coast of North America used to be part of a large 
convergent plate boundary between the Farallon Plate and North American 
Plate from 165 to 55 million years ago. Here, the Farallon Plate subducted 
under the North American Plate creating volcanoes about 100 miles east 
of this boundary which can still be seen today as the Sierra Nevada which 
it has its southern border about 30 miles east of Grapevine, California 
in the Tejon Pass. The Farallon Plate was subjected to high temperatures 
and pressures as it subducted under the North American Plate. This led 
to the formation of molten plutons which rose because they were else dense 
then the surrounding magma. When they rose, they cooled and some formed 
enormous granite monoliths. Only less than 1% of these plutons ever made 
it to the surface out of a volcano or fissure vent. The 1% that did make 
it all the way to the surface erupted in andesitic lava which would pile 
on top of each previous flow. This would create steep volcanoes with extremely 
high elevations. Most of the ejecta that came out of a volcano is gas. 
About 60% is just carbon (C) and water vapor (H2O). About 30% is sulfur 
(S). The sulfur mixes with the water vapor to form sulfuric acid which 
is notorious for eating away at almost anything from plants to rocks. For 
the 99% percent of plutons that didn't make it to the surface they cooled 
to form granite monoliths under these volcanoes. When subduction activities 
ceased about 55 million years ago, these volcanoes were subject to erosion 
due to their steep slopes. Because granite is classified as a hard igneous 
rock, it is the only remnant of the volcanic chain from this subduction 
zone. These enormous granite monoliths can still be seen in Yosemite National 
Park as Half Dome and El Capitan about 300 miles from Los Angeles. Please 
refer to the Geologic History of Yosemite page to learn more specifically 
of the local geology of that area. When the subduction zone ceased about 
55 million years ago, the Farallon Plate was split into two distinctive 
plates which can still be observed today as the Juan de Fuca Plate and 
the Cocos Plate. Both were part of the same plate, but were discovered 
independently before this connection was made. At the time of this break 
off, the Pacific Plate had a general north west movement while the North 
American Plate had a general south east movement. This created a new fault 
zone when a weak point gave way between these two plates. This is the beginnings 
of the infamous San Andreas Fault. The San Andreas Fault is a right-lateral 
strike strip transverse fault. When this fault was just created, a volcano 
from the ancient subduction zone was situated about 3/4th on the Pacific 
Plate and 1/4th on the North American plate somewhere in what is today 
Central California. Nearly 55 million years later, this volcano was offset 
by about 250 miles. It is the largest known offset of the San Andreas Fault 
and it help geologist determine important information such as average slip 
movement and the age of the fault. The northern part of this offset is 
now called Pinnacles National Park near Soledad, California. The other 
half of Pinnacles is located in Three Points, California which is in Los 
Angeles County. The Pacific Plate is the largest known plate on Earth. 
It is considered an oceanic plate because it is much more dense than a 
continental plate. That is the reason why oceanic plates always subduct 
under another plate. There are only a few places where the Pacific Plate 
is actually above the ocean. Most of the coastline of the state, below 
Eureka, California is part of the Pacific plate. The thickest part on land 
in California can be observed as far inland as the Salton Sea. To the south 
of the Salon Sea, there is a gap between plate boundaries. This gap acts 
like a divergent plate boundary where the land is being pulled apart. Mud 
volcanoes can be observed just at the southern edge of the sea as well 
as hot springs. Geothermal energy plants are abundant in the area, which 
power much of the local rural communities. When the San Andreas Fault originally 
formed, tension on the North American Plate grew. The plate buckled and 
began uplifting similar to swelling in nearly all portions of the west. 
Numerous faults were created as a result; geologic blocks that rose and 
fell over and over again in patterns and in sequences. The extension of 
surface led to cracks which formed many independent faults. This is the 
creation of the Basin and Range Province. Sometimes these faults created 
a pathway, which molten rock could flow up to the surface creating cinder 
cone volcanoes. The Los Angeles Area has a few volcanoes that formed. Along 
Route 66 in Amboy, California is the extinct volcano Amboy Crater called 
that is estimated to be aged at 80,000 years. It's a relatively new speaking 
in geologic terms, but heavily eroded by wind. While driving along Interstate 
40, lava fields are seen that can stretch for miles. Within Death Valley 
National Park another, much larger cinder cone volcano called Ubehebe Crater. 
It is extremely young, although many geologist dispute the numbers with 
some estimates as old as 10,000 years with recent ages such as 800 years. 
One thing is for sure, that this volcano is still very active and can erupt. 
Luckily, because of its location, will likely not effect many people. Within 
Orange County, lava flows and dikes can be seen in El Modena, California 
although no actual crater can be seen. Likely because either it has been 
totally eroded or it was formed in a small fissure, which would explain 
why it's so localized. The land with which the Los Angeles Metropolitan 
Area sits is among the newest rocks in the continental United States. It 
is estimated to be about 20 million years old. Most of the rocks in this 
area are part of the larger Monterey Formation which covers most of the 
California coastal ranges. The Monterey Formation consists of shale rocks, 
which were created from the accumulation calcium rich shells of dead marine 
life of millions of years. Before then, it was submerged and was part a 
shallow ocean floor. It has since been uplifted due to pressures between 
the many different fault zones at an average rate of 2 millimeters per 
year. The Los Angeles Metropolitan is known to be geologically active. 
The San Andreas Fault is located about 40 miles north east of Downtown 
Los Angeles. The closest towns and cites which contain the San Andreas 
Fault to Los Angeles are Gorman, California and Palmdale, California. Historically, 
major earthquakes have occurred along the fault, large enough to cause 
fatalities and millions of dollars in damages. A major earthquake hasn't 
happened in the southern section of the San Andreas Fault in over 150 years 
and geologist have determined a 50% probability of a 7.0 earthquake, registered 
on the moment magnitude scale within the years 2010 to 2040. Some geologist 
say that this probably is over speculated. There is currently no way to 
accurately predict an earthquake anywhere on any specific fault. On the 
contrary, major efforts have been made to fund a practical earthquake warning 
system, similar to what Japan used in Tokyo during the 2011 Japan Earthquake, 
in Southern California. Today, the area gets hits with many earthquakes 
per day, most reregistering below a 2.5 on the moment magnitude scale, 
too insignificant to feel any shaking on the surface. Note: Plate boundary 
faults are indicated with a (#) symbol. Note: Earthquakes with epicenters 
in the Los Angeles Metro Area are marked with the (#) symbol. Other earthquakes 
mentioned means shaking was felt. 1 Tokyo-Yokohama 2 Jakarta 3 Shanghai 
4 Karachi 5 Delhi   6 Seoul-Incheon   7 Mexico City   8 Beijing   9 Lagos 
  10 São Paulo 11 Mumbai 12 New York 13 Osaka 14 Dhaka 15 Kolkata 16 Tehran 
