               The Los Angeles Kings are a professional ice hockey team 
based in Los Angeles. They are members of the Pacific Division of the Western 
Conference of the National Hockey League (NHL). The team was founded on 
June 5, 1967, after Jack Kent Cooke was awarded an NHL expansion franchise 
for Los Angeles on February 9, 1966, becoming one of the six teams that 
began play as part of the 1967 NHL expansion.[2] The Kings called The Forum 
in Inglewood, California (a suburb of Los Angeles), their home for thirty-two 
years until they moved to the Staples Center in Downtown Los Angeles to 
start the 1999–2000 season. During the 1970s and early 1980s, the Kings 
had many years marked by impressive play in the regular season only to 
be washed out by early playoff exits. Their highlights included the strong 
goaltending of Rogie Vachon, and the "Triple Crown Line" of Charlie Simmer, 
Dave Taylor and Hall of Fame player Marcel Dionne, who had a famous upset 
of the uprising Edmonton Oilers in a 1982 playoff game known as the Miracle 
on Manchester. In 1988, the Kings traded with the Oilers to get their captain 
Wayne Gretzky, leading to a successful phase of the franchise that raised 
hockey's popularity in Los Angeles. Gretzky, fellow Hall of Famer Luc Robitaille 
and defenseman Rob Blake led the Kings to the franchise's sole division 
title in 1990–91, and the Kings' first Stanley Cup Final in 1993. After 
the 1993 Finals, the Kings entered financial problems, with a bankruptcy 
in 1995 that was only solved after the franchise was acquired by Philip 
Anschutz (owner of Anschutz Entertainment Group, operators of Staples Center) 
and Edward P. Roski. A period of mediocrity ensued, with the Kings only 
resurging as they broke a six-year playoff drought in the 2009–10 season, 
with a team that included goaltender Jonathan Quick, defenseman Drew Doughty, 
and forwards Dustin Brown, Anze Kopitar and Justin Williams. Under coach 
Darryl Sutter, who was hired early in the 2011–12 season, the Kings have 
won two Stanley Cups in three years: 2012, over the New Jersey Devils, 
and 2014, against the New York Rangers. Quick and Williams respectively 
won the Conn Smythe Trophy as the most valuable player of the playoffs. 
When the NHL decided to expand for the 1967–68 season amid rumblings that 
the Western Hockey League (WHL) was proposing to turn itself into a major 
league and compete for the Stanley Cup, Canadian entrepreneur Jack Kent 
Cooke paid the NHL $2 million to place one of the six expansion teams in 
Los Angeles.[3] Following a fan contest to name the team, Cooke chose the 
name Kings because he wanted his club to take on "an air of royalty," and 
picked the original team colors of purple (or "Forum Blue", as it was later 
officially called) and gold because they were colors traditionally associated 
with royalty. The same color scheme was worn by the Los Angeles Lakers 
of the National Basketball Association (NBA), which Cooke also owned.[4][5] 
Cooke wanted his new NHL team to play in the Los Angeles Memorial Sports 
Arena, home of the Lakers, but the Los Angeles Coliseum Commission, which 
manages the Sports Arena and the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum to the present 
day, had already entered into an agreement with the WHL's Los Angeles Blades 
(whose owners had also tried to land the NHL expansion franchise in Los 
Angeles) to play their games at the Sports Arena.[6] Frustrated by his 
dealings with the Coliseum Commission, Cooke said, "I am going to build 
my own arena...I've had enough of this balderdash."[6] Construction on 
Cooke's new arena, the Forum, was not yet complete when the 1967–68 season 
began, so the Kings opened their first season at the Long Beach Arena in 
the neighboring city of Long Beach on October 14, 1967, defeating another 
expansion team, the Philadelphia Flyers, 4–2.[7] The "Fabulous Forum" finally 
opened its doors on December 30, 1967, with the Kings being shut out by 
the Flyers, 2–0.[8] While the first two seasons had the Kings qualifying 
for the playoffs,[9] afterwards poor management led the Kings into hard 
times. The general managers established a history of trading away first-round 
draft picks, usually for veteran players,[10] and attendance suffered during 
this time.[11] Eventually the Kings made two key acquisitions to resurge 
as a contender. By acquiring Toronto Maple Leafs winger Bob Pulford, who 
would later become the Kings' head coach, in 1970,[12] and Montreal Canadiens 
goaltender Rogie Vachon in 1971,[13] the Kings went from being one of the 
worst defensive teams in the league to one of the best, and in 1974 they 
returned to the playoffs.[9] After being eliminated in the first round 
of the playoffs in both 1973–74 and 1974–75, the Kings moved to significantly 
upgrade their offensive firepower when they acquired center Marcel Dionne 
from the Detroit Red Wings.[14] Behind Dionne's offensive prowess, the 
strong goaltending of Rogie Vachon, and the speed and scoring touch of 
forward Butch Goring,[15] the Kings played two of their most thrilling 
seasons yet, with playoff match ups against the then-Atlanta Flames in 
the first round, and the Boston Bruins in the second round, both times 
being eliminated by Boston. Bob Pulford left the Kings after the 1976–77 
season after constant feuding with then owner Jack Kent Cooke, and general 
manager Jake Milford decided to leave as well. This led to struggles in 
the 1977–78 season, where the Kings finished below .500 and were easily 
swept out of the first round by the Maple Leafs. Afterwards Vachon would 
become a free agent and sign with the Detroit Red Wings. The following 
season, Kings coach Bob Berry tried juggling line combinations, and Dionne 
found himself on a new line with two young, mostly unknown players: second-year 
right winger Dave Taylor and left winger Charlie Simmer, who had been a 
career minor-leaguer.[12] Each player benefited from each other, with Simmer 
being the gritty player who battled along the boards, Taylor being the 
play maker, and Dionne being the natural goal scorer. This line combination, 
known as the "Triple Crown Line", would go on to become one of the highest-scoring 
line combinations in NHL history.[12][16] During the first three seasons 
of the Triple Crown Line, a period where Dr. Jerry Buss purchased the Kings, 
the Lakers, and the Forum for $67.5 million,[8] the Kings were eliminated 
in the first round. Then in the 1982 Stanley Cup playoffs, a Kings team 
that finished 17th overall and fourth in their division with 63 points, 
managed to upset the second overall Edmonton Oilers, led by the young Wayne 
Gretzky.[17] With two victories in Edmonton and one at the Forum – dubbed 
"Miracle on Manchester", where the Kings managed to erase a 5–0 deficit 
at the third period and eventually win in overtime – the Kings managed 
to eliminate the vaunted Oilers, but they wound up eliminated by eventual 
finalists Vancouver Canucks in five games.[18] Despite Dionne's leadership, 
the Kings missed the playoffs in the next two seasons. A post-season return 
occurred in 1984–85 under coach Pat Quinn, where the Kings were quickly 
swept out of the playoffs by the Oilers in their second-straight Stanley 
Cup championship.[9] After a losing season in 1985–86, the Kings saw two 
important departures during 1986–87, as Quinn signed a contract in December 
to become coach and general manager of the Vancouver Canucks with just 
months left on his Kings contract – eventually being suspended by NHL President 
John Ziegler for creating a conflict of interest -[19] and Dionne left 
the franchise in March in a trade to the New York Rangers.[20] Despite 
these shocks, a young squad that would lead the Kings into the next decade, 
including star forwards Bernie Nicholls, Jimmy Carson, Luc Robitaille, 
and defenseman Steve Duchesne,[18] started to flourish under head coach 
Mike Murphy, who played thirteen season with the Kings and was their captain 
for seven years, and his replacement Robbie Ftorek.[21][22] The Kings made 
the playoffs for two seasons, but they were unable to get out of the first 
round given the playoff structuring forced them to play either the Oilers 
or the equally powerful Calgary Flames en route to the Conference Finals. 
In all, the Kings faced either the Oilers or the Flames in the playoffs 
four times during the 1980s.[23] However, the 1988–89 season would be a 
big turning point for the franchise.[9] In 1987, coin collector Bruce McNall 
purchased the Kings from Buss and turned the team into a Stanley Cup contender 
almost overnight. On August 9, 1988, McNall acquired the league's best 
player, Wayne Gretzky, in a blockbuster trade with the Edmonton Oilers. 
The trade rocked the hockey world, especially north of the border where 
Canadians mourned the loss of a player they considered a national treasure.[24] 
McNall changed the team colors to silver and black.[5] Gretzky's arrival 
generated much excitement about hockey and the NHL in Southern California, 
and the ensuing popularity of the Kings is credited with the arrival of 
another team in the region, the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim (later renamed 
to Anaheim Ducks in 2006),[25] and the NHL's expanding or moving into other 
Sun Belt cities such as Dallas, Phoenix, Tampa, Miami and Nashville.[26] 
In Gretzky's first season with the Kings, he led the team in scoring with 
168 points on 54 goals and 114 assists, and won his ninth Hart Memorial 
Trophy as the league's Most Valuable Player. The fourth overall Kings eliminated 
Gretzky's old team, the Oilers, in the first round of the 1989 playoffs, 
before being swept out of the playoffs in the second round by the eventual 
Stanley Cup champion Flames.[23] Clashes between Gretzky and head coach 
Robbie Ftorek led to his dismissal,[22] replaced by Tom Webster.[27] The 
next season, where Gretzky became the league's all-time leading scorer,[28] 
was the inverse of its predecessor, with the Kings eliminating the defending 
champion Flames before falling to the eventual champion Oilers.[23] Gretzky 
spearheaded the Kings to their first regular-season division title in franchise 
history in the 1990–91 season,[29] but the heavily favored Kings lost a 
close series against Edmonton in the second round that saw four games go 
into overtime.[30] After the third straight elimination by the Oilers in 
1992, Tom Webster was relieved from head coach, and general manager Rogie 
Vachon was moved to a different position in the organization and named 
Nick Beverley as his successor. Beverley hired coach Barry Melrose, then 
at the Adirondack Red Wings.[31] Melrose would help the Kings reach new 
heights in the 1992–93 season, even if Gretzky missed 39 games with a career-threatening 
herniated thoracic disk. Led by Luc Robitaille, who filled in as captain 
on Gretzky's absence,[32] the Kings finished with a 39–35–10 record (88 
points), clinching third place in the Smythe Division.[33] Heavily contested 
series at the 1993 playoffs had the Kings eliminating the Flames, Canucks 
and Leafs en route to their first berth in the Stanley Cup Finals.[34][35] 
In the 1993 Stanley Cup Finals, the Kings faced the Montreal Canadiens. 
After winning the opening game 4–1, the Kings suffered a turnaround during 
Game 2. Late in the contest, with the Kings leading by a score of 2–1, 
Canadiens coach Jacques Demers requested a measurement of Kings defenseman 
Marty McSorley's stick blade.[36] His suspicions proved to be correct, 
as the curve of blade was too great, and McSorley was penalized.[36] The 
Canadiens pulled their goalie, Patrick Roy, giving them a two-man advantage, 
and Eric Desjardins scored on the resulting power play to tie the game.[36] 
Montreal went on to win the game in overtime on another goal by Desjardins,[36] 
and the Kings never recovered. They dropped the next two games in overtime, 
and lost Game 5, 4–1, giving the Canadiens the 24th Stanley Cup in franchise 
history.[34][37] The next chapter after the 1993 playoff run for the Kings 
was tough for Kings fans, having a sluggish start on 1993–94 season to 
cost them a playoff berth, the first absence from the postseason since 
1986. At the same time, McNall defaulted on a loan from Bank of America, 
who threatened to force the Kings into bankruptcy unless he sold the team. 
McNall sold the team to IDB Communications founder Jeffrey Sudikoff and 
former Madison Square Garden president Joseph Cohen in the wake of a federal 
investigation into his financial practices.[38] It later emerged that McNall's 
free-spending ways put the Kings in serious financial trouble. At one point, 
Cohen and Sudikoff were even unable to meet player payroll, and were ultimately 
forced into bankruptcy in 1995.[39] They were forced to trade many of their 
stronger players, and the middling results led to Gretzky's departure in 
1996 as he requested a trade to a legitimate Stanley Cup contender, and 
went to the St. Louis Blues.[40] On October 6, 1995, one day before the 
1995–96 season opener, the bankruptcy court approved the purchase of the 
Kings by Phillip Anschutz and Edward P. Roski for $113.5 million.[41] The 
subsequent rebuild had the Kings only return to the playoffs in 1998, led 
by captain Rob Blake and strong players Jozef Stumpel and Glen Murray, 
where the highly skilled St. Louis Blues swept the team in four games.[42] 
The Kings suffered though an 1998–99 injury-plagued season as they finished 
last in the Pacific Division and missed the playoffs with a 32–45–5 record, 
leading to the dismissal of head coach Larry Robinson.[43] The Kings, along 
with the Los Angeles Lakers, made an even bigger move in 1999, as they 
left The Forum, after 32 seasons, and moved to the Staples Center in downtown 
Los Angeles, which was built by Anschutz and Roski. Staples Center was 
a state-of-the-art arena, complete with luxury suites and all the modern 
amenities that fans and athletes would want in a brand-new facility.[44] 
With a new home, a new coach, a potential 50-goal scorer in the fold and 
players such as Rob Blake, Luc Robitaille, Glen Murray, Jozef Stumpel, 
Donald Audette, Ian Laperriere and Mattias Norstrom, the Kings improved 
dramatically, finishing the season the 1999–2000 season with a 39–31–12–4 
record (94 points), good for second place in the Pacific Division.[45] 
But in the 2000 playoffs, the Kings were once again eliminated in the first 
round, this time by the Detroit Red Wings in a four-game sweep.[46] The 
2000–01 season was a controversial one, as fans began to question AEG's 
commitment to the success of the Kings because they failed to significantly 
improve the team during the off-season. Adding fuel to the fire was the 
February 21, 2001, trade of star defenseman and fan favorite Rob Blake 
to the Colorado Avalanche.[47] Despite this, two players gotten in the 
deal, right wing Adam Deadmarsh and defenseman Aaron Miller, became impact 
players for the Kings, who finished the 2000–01 season with a 38–28–13–3 
record (92 points), good for a third-place finish in the Pacific Division 
and another first-round playoff date with the Detroit Red Wings.[48] The 
heavily favored Red Wings suffered an upset, losing in six games for the 
Kings' first playoff series win since 1993.[34] In the second round, the 
Kings forced seven games in their series against the Avalanche, but lost 
to the eventual Stanley Cup champions.[46] Afterwards, during the off-season, 
Luc Robitaille turned down a one-year deal with a substantial pay cut and 
ended up signing with Detroit, as the Red Wings represented his best chance 
at winning the Stanley Cup, and like Tomas Sandstrom before him in 1997, 
Robitaille won the Stanley Cup with Detroit in 2002.[49] The Kings started 
off the season with a sluggish October and November, and then found their 
game again to finish with 95 points. They in fact were tied in points with 
the second place Phoenix Coyotes, and only finished third in the Pacific 
Division and seventh in the West due to a goals-for differential—the Coyotes 
having 228 and the Kings having 214 as a team. In the playoffs they met 
the Colorado Avalanche once again, this time in the first round. The series 
would prove to be a carbon copy of their previous meeting, with the Kings 
behind three games to one and bouncing back to tie the series, only to 
be dominated in the seventh game and eliminated.[50] The next seasons would 
be major disappointments as the Kings hit another major decline, missing 
the post-season up until 2009–10, where the team had built a consistent 
roster with goalie Jonathan Quick, defenseman Drew Doughty, and forwards 
Dustin Brown, Anze Kopitar and Justin Williams.[51] Finishing sixth overall 
in the West with 101 points, just the third 100-plus point season in franchise 
history, and establishing a franchise record with a nine-game unbeaten 
streak, the Kings returned to the playoffs, where they lost to a highly 
skilled Vancouver Canucks team in six games.[52] The Kings entered the 
2011 playoffs as the seventh seed in the West and played San Jose in the 
first round. Despite Anze Kopitar's absence with injury, the Kings pushed 
the series to seven games until an overtime goal by Joe Thornton qualified 
the Sharks.[53] A bad start to the 2011–12 season resulted in coach Terry 
Murray being fired, with Darryl Sutter being chosen as his replacement. 
The Kings were much improved under Sutter, finishing with the eight seed, 
having rounded out the season with a 40–27–15 record for 95 points. The 
Kings then headed into the 2012 playoffs against the Presidents' Trophy-winning 
Vancouver Canucks. After playing two games in Vancouver and one in Los 
Angeles, the Kings were up 3–0 in the series, a franchise first. By winning 
Game 5 in Vancouver, the Kings advanced to the Conference Semifinals for 
the first time since the 2000–01 season, whereupon they swept the second-seeded 
St. Louis Blues, advancing to the Western Conference Finals for only the 
second time in franchise history. In doing so, the Kings also became the 
first NHL team to enter the playoffs as the eighth seed and eliminate the 
first- and second-seeded teams in the Conference. They then defeated Phoenix 
in five games to reach the Finals, culminating in an overtime goal by Dustin 
Penner in Game 5, and thus becoming the second team in NHL history to beat 
the top three Conference seeds in the playoffs (the Calgary Flames achieved 
the same feat in 2004, ironically also under Darryl Sutter) and the first 
eighth seed to accomplish the feat.[54] Los Angeles faced the New Jersey 
Devils in the Final, defeating them in six games to win their first Stanley 
Cup in franchise history.[55] With the Game 6 victory occurring on home 
ice at Staples Center, the Kings became the first team since the 2007 Anaheim 
Ducks to win the Stanley Cup at home, as well as the second Californian 
NHL team to do so.[56] The Kings became the first eight seed champion in 
any of the North American major leagues, the first Stanley Cup champion 
that finished below fifth in its conference, and the third to finish below 
second in its division (after the 1993 Canadiens and the 1995 Devils).[54] 
Goaltender Jonathan Quick was awarded the Conn Smythe Trophy as the most 
valuable player during the playoffs, and soon after signed a ten-year contract 
extension on June 28.[57] Due to the 2012–13 NHL lockout, the 2012–13 Los 
Angeles Kings season began on January 19, 2013, and was shortened to 48 
games.[58] The Kings finished the season as the fifth seed in the West 
and began the defense of the Cup on the road against the St. Louis Blues, 
who they swept in the 2012 playoffs.[59] After losing the first two games, 
the Kings won four in a row to eliminate the Blues in six games.[60] In 
the second round, they then played a very tough San Jose Sharks team, this 
time with home ice advantage. In the first game, Jarret Stoll suffered 
an injury from the Sharks' Raffi Torres, who ended up being suspended for 
the rest of the series. The Kings eventually won in seven games. In the 
Western Conference Finals, they faced the number one seed in the West and 
Presidents' Trophy winner, the Chicago Blackhawks. After dropping the first 
two games, the Kings won Game 3 with Jeff Carter suffering an injury from 
Blackhawks defenseman Duncan Keith, who was suspended for Game 4 as a result. 
After losing Game 4, the Kings battled the Blackhawks through two overtime 
periods in Game 5, with Patrick Kane eventually scoring the game-winning 
goal that won the game and the series, sending the Blackhawks to the 2013 
Stanley Cup Finals and ending the Kings' season.[61] During the 2013–14 
season, the Kings acquired Marian Gaborik, and qualified for their fifth 
straight playoffs with the sixth best result of the West.[62] In the first 
round of the 2014 playoffs, the Kings played their in-state rivals, the 
San Jose Sharks. After losing the first three games to the Sharks, the 
Kings became the fourth team in NHL history to win the final four games 
in a row after initially being down three games to none, beating the Sharks 
in San Jose in the deciding Game 7. In the second round, the Kings played 
another in-state rival, Anaheim. After starting the series with two wins, 
the Kings lost three-straight games, trailing the series three games to 
two. For the second time in the first two rounds of the playoffs, however, 
the Kings were able to rally back after being down in the series and defeated 
the Ducks in Anaheim in Game 7. In the third round, the Kings jumped out 
to a three games to one lead against Stanley Cup-defending Chicago, but 
were unable to close out the series in the fifth and sixth games. On June 
1, 2014, the Kings advanced to the Stanley Cup Finals for the second time 
in three years after winning Game 7, 4–3, in overtime via a goal from Alec 
Martinez, clinching their third Western Conference title in franchise history.[63] 
The Kings became the first team in NHL history to win three Game 7s en 
route to a Stanley Cup Finals berth. Not only were the Kings the first 
team in history to accomplish this feat, they also managed to win all game 
sevens on opposing ice.[64] For the third time, the Kings were finalists 
after finishing third in their division and sixth or lower in their conference.[54] 
In the Final, the Kings faced the Eastern Conference-winning New York Rangers, 
who had defeated the Montreal Canadiens in six games in the Eastern Finals.[65] 
The Kings won the Stanley Cup in five games, culminating with an Alec Martinez 
goal in the second overtime of Game 5 at Staples Center. The championship 
run had a record-tying 26 playoff games (the 1986–87 Philadelphia Flyers 
and 2003–04 Calgary Flames being the others), with the Kings facing elimination 
a record seven times.[66] With their Game 7 victory in the Conference Finals 
and wins in the first two games of the Cup Finals, they became the first 
team to win three consecutive playoff games after trailing by more than 
one goal in each game.[67] Justin Williams, who scored twice in the Finals 
and had points in all three Game 7s throughout the playoffs, won the Conn 
Smythe Trophy as playoff MVP.[68] Having won two Stanley Cup championships 
in the last three years, the Kings entered the 2014–15 season as the early 
favorites to retain their title.[69] However, the Kings struggled often, 
with scoring slumps, defensemen losing games to injury and suspensions 
and frequent road losses.[70][71] A defeat to the Calgary Flames in the 
penultimate game of the season eliminated the Kings from playoff contention, 
while qualifying Calgary, which coincidentally missed the post-season during 
the Kings' five-season playoff streak. Despite finishing with a record 
of 40–27–15, the Kings became the first defending Stanley Cup champion 
to miss the post-season since the 2006–07 Carolina Hurricanes and only 
the fourth overall since the 1967 NHL expansion season.[72][73] At the 
start of the 2015–16 season. The Kings were expected to make the playoffs. 
They entered the playoffs as the fifth seeded in their conference and second 
seeded in their division. They faced the San Jose Sharks, but lost to them 
in five games. On June 16, 2016 the Kings named Anze Kopitar the 14th captain 
in team history, replacing Dustin Brown, who had led the team for the past 
eight seasons. The Los Angeles Kings debuted in the NHL wearing purple 
– officially, "Forum blue" – and gold uniforms.[5] The original design 
was simple and straightforward, featuring monochrome striping on the shoulders 
and tail, as well as purple pants with white and gold trim. Later on, white 
trim was added on the numbers, and names were also added, while tail stripes 
were adjusted. At one point, gold pants were used to pair with the gold 
uniforms during the 1970s. A variation of the original crown logo, with 
a contrasting color background, was used with this uniform.[5] From 1980 
to 1988, the Kings modified their uniforms to include a contrasting yoke 
that extends from sleeve to sleeve. White was also added to the socks, 
on the tail stripes, and at the bottom of the yoke, but the color was removed 
from the pants. The names and numbers were also modified to a standard 
NHL block lettering.[5] Just in time for Wayne Gretzky's arrival, the Kings' 
colors changed to black and silver. The new uniforms didn't deviate much 
from the prior design, save for the color scheme, a new primary Kings logo, 
and a switch from a contrasting yoke color to sleeve stripes. With minor 
changes to the text and pant striping, the uniforms were used until the 
1997–98 season.[5] The Kings briefly reintroduced purple and gold to the 
color scheme upon unveiling an alternate jersey for the 1995–96 season. 
The uniform featured a gradually fading black splash, medieval-inspired 
serif text, and a logo of a bearded figure wearing a golden crown. The 
so-called "Burger King" jersey proved to be unpopular with fans, and was 
scrapped after only one season.[5][74] For the 1998–99 season, the Kings 
unveiled new logos, uniforms and color scheme, restoring the purple – albeit 
a lighter shade compared to Forum Blue – as grey and black had become associated 
with gang colors. The new primary logo was a shield and crest featuring 
three royal symbols, a lion, a crown and the Sun.[75] The jerseys featured 
the shield logo with hints of purple on the yoke, sleeve stripes and tail. 
By coincidence, this was the same color scheme as the NBA's Sacramento 
team which is also called the Kings. The bottom of the jerseys read the 
city name. A purple alternate jersey featuring the updated secondary crown 
logo was unveiled for the 1999–2000 season. In 2002, the crown logo became 
the primary while the shield logo was demoted to alternate status. The 
socks on the black and purple uniforms also switched designations to match 
their counterparts. Upon moving to the Reebok Edge design in 2007, the 
jerseys were updated without the tail stripes. The purple-tinged road jerseys 
were used until the 2010–11 season, while the home jersey was demoted to 
alternate status in 2011 and remained in use until 2013.[5][76] In 2008, 
the Kings unveiled an alternate jersey inspired from the 1988–98 Kings 
motif. The current logo, now in a black and silver banner with the updated 
crown logo and 'LA' abbreviation on top, made its debut with the jersey. 
Three years later, the Kings completed the transition back to the classic 
black and silver by unveiling a new away jersey, which unlike the home 
jersey, features a black and silver tail stripe. The Kings script from 
their 1988–98 logo returned on the helmets, and would stay that way until 
2013, when they were replaced by the current Kings script.[5] Since the 
2010–11 season, the Kings have also worn their classic purple and gold 
jerseys from the late 1970s as part of "Legends Night" on select home dates. 
Minor changes in the uniform include the NHL shield logo on the neck piping, 
as well as the use of the Reebok Edge design.[77] The Kings wore silver 
jerseys with white trim, black stripes and shoulder yoke during the 2014 
NHL Stadium Series. The uniforms featured a metallic treatment of the alternate 
crown logo in front. The sleeve numbers were slightly tilted diagonally, 
while the back numbers were enlarged for visibility purposes. A new 'LA' 
alternate logo was placed on the left shoulder yoke.[78] For the 2015 Stadium 
Series, the Kings wore a tricolored jersey featuring the team's silver, 
black and white colors. Both the sleeve and back numbers are enlarged, 
while white pants were used with this jersey.[79] The mascot of the Kings 
since 2007 is Bailey, a 6-foot lion (6 foot 4 inches with mane included) 
who wears No. 72 because it is the average temperature in Los Angeles. 
He was named in honor of Garnet "Ace" Bailey,[80] who served Director of 
Pro Scouting for seven years before dying in the September 11, 2001 terrorist 
attacks.[81][82][83] Bailey is the second mascot, after Kingston the snow 
leopard in the early 1990s.[80] The Kings have developed strong rivalries 
with the two other Californian teams of the NHL,[84] the Anaheim Ducks 
– who also play in the Los Angeles metropolitan area, leading to the rivalry 
nickname "Freeway Face-Off" as both cities are separated by the Interstate 
5 -[85][86] and the San Jose Sharks – which also showcases the contrast 
between Northern and Southern California.[87] The Kings eliminated both 
teams during the 2014 Stanley Cup run, and have played outdoor games with 
them for the NHL Stadium Series, losing to the Ducks at Dodger Stadium 
in 2014 and beating the Sharks at Levi's Stadium the following year.[84] 
List of the last five seasons completed by the Kings. For the full season-by-season 
history, see List of Los Angeles Kings seasons[88] Note: GP = Games played, 
W = Wins, L = Losses, T = Ties, OTL = Overtime losses/Shootout losses, 
Pts = Points, GF = Goals for, GA = Goals against Updated November 11, 2016.[89] 
Nineteen honored members of the Hockey Hall of Fame have had experience 
with the Kings upon induction; including sixteen players, two head coaches, 
and one executive. Three broadcasters are media honorees, and two are athletic 
trainer honorees. Players Builders Athletic trainers * Rogie Vachon took 
over as interim head coach for the Kings on three different occasions, 
the first for two games in the middle of the 1983–84 season after Don Perry 
was fired, then replaced by Roger Neilson. The second time was for one 
game in the middle of 1987–88 season after Mike Murphy was fired, then 
replaced by Robbie Ftorek. The third occasion was for the final seven games 
in the 1994–95 lockout-shortened season after Barry Melrose was fired, 
then replaced by Larry Robinson. In all those times, he returned to his 
duties in the Kings front office. * John Torchetti took over as interim 
head coach for the final twelve games of the 2005–06 season after Andy 
Murray was fired. Torchetti was also fired at the end of the regular season 
and was replaced by Marc Crawford. * John Stevens took over as interim 
head coach for four games in the middle of the 2011–12 season after Terry 
Murray was fired. He would return to his duties as assistant coach after 
Darryl Sutter was hired. These are the top-ten point-scorers in franchise 
history. Figures are updated after each completed NHL regular season. Note: 
Pos = Position; GP = Games Played; G = Goals; A = Assists; Pts = Points; 
P/G = Points per game; * = current Kings player In 1973, the Kings hired 
Bob Miller as their play-by-play announcer. Considered to be one of the 
finest hockey play-by-play announcers, Miller has held that post continuously 
since that time, and is often referred to as the Voice of the Kings. He 
received the Foster Hewitt Memorial Award from the NHL Hockey Broadcasters 
Association on November 13, 2000, making him a media honoree in the Hockey 
Hall of Fame,[111][116] and he also earned a star in the Hollywood Walk 
of Fame in 2006.[117] Miller has written two books about his experiences 
with the team, Bob Miller's Tales of the Los Angeles Kings (2006),[118] 
and Tales From The Los Angeles Kings Locker Room: A Collection Of The Greatest 
Kings Stories Ever Told (2013).[119] Television: Fox Sports West and Prime 
Ticket Radio: KABC 790 Public address: The Kings are currently affiliated 
with the Ontario Reign in the American Hockey League and the Manchester 
Monarchs in the ECHL. Previous affiliates included the Lowell Lock Monsters, 
Springfield Falcons, New Haven Nighthawks, Binghamton Dusters and Springfield 
Kings of the AHL; Reading Royals in the ECHL; Long Beach Ice Dogs, Phoenix 
Roadrunners and Utah Grizzlies in the International Hockey League; and 
