Lotte Co., Ltd. (ロッテ, Hangul: 롯데) is a multinational conglomerate with 
headquarters in South Korea and Japan. Lotte was first established in June 
1948 in Tokyo, by Shin Kyuk-ho(신격호) (also known as Takeo Shigemitsu). With 
the money he earned in Japan, Shin expanded to his home country, South 
Korea with the establishment of Lotte Confectionery in Seoul on April 3, 
1967. Lotte eventually grew to become South Korea's eighth largest business 
conglomerate. Lotte Group consists of over 60 business units employing 
60,000 people engaged in such diverse industries as candy manufacturing, 
beverages, hotels, fast food, retail, financial services, heavy chemicals, 
electronics, IT, construction, publishing, and entertainment. Lotte's major 
operations are overseen by Shin's family in Japan and South Korea, with 
additional businesses in China, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Vietnam, 
India, USA, UK, Russia, Philippines, Pakistan and Poland (Lotte bought 
Poland's largest candy company Wedel from Kraft Foods in June 2010). Today, 
Lotte is the largest confectionery manufacturer in South Korea, and is 
the third largest in Japan behind Meiji Seika and Ezaki Glico in terms 
of sales revenue when only the sales of Lotte's confectioneries are counted. 
Lotte's first company was founded in June 1948 in Tokyo, by Shin Kyuk-ho, 
two years after he graduated from Waseda Jitsugyo High School (早稲田実業学校). 
Originally called Lotte Co., Ltd, the company has grown from selling chewing 
gum to children in post-war Japan to becoming a major multinational corporation. 
In June 2016, companies of the group were raided by South Korean prosecutors, 
investigating into a possible slush fund as well as breach of trust involving 
transactions among the group's companies.[2] The investigation forced its 
Hotel Lotte unit to abandon an initial public offering and Lotte Chemical 
Corp to withdraw from bidding for Axiall Corp.[2] Its Vice Chairman, Lee 
In-won, was found dead in August same year. He was suspected of suicide 
just hours before being questioned by prosecutors.[2] Lee was considered 
the top lieutenant of Chairman Shin Dong bin.[2] The source of the company's 
name is neither Korean nor Japanese, but German. Shin was impressed with 
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe's The Sorrows of Young Werther (1774) and named 
his newly founded company Lotte after the character Charlotte[3][4] in 
the novel ("Charlotte" is also the name of a new brand of deluxe movie 
theatres run by Lotte). Lotte's current marketing slogan in Japan is "The 
sweetheart of your mouth, Lotte" (お口の恋人,ロッテ, Okuchi no koibito, Rotte?). 
Lotte Holdings Co., Ltd. – Lotte group's world headquarters – are located 
in Myeongdong, Seoul and Shinjuku, Tokyo. It is controlled by the founder 
Shin Kyuk-Ho's family. Lotte group's major businesses are food products, 
shopping, finance, construction, amusement parks, hotels, trade, oil and 
