James Gerald "Lou" Gorman[1] (February 18, 1929 – April 1, 2011)[2] was 
an American baseball executive, and the former general manager of the Boston 
Red Sox and Seattle Mariners of Major League Baseball. He spent more than 
three decades in baseball operations, as a general manager, assistant GM, 
farm system director or scouting director, and at the time of his death 
he was the Red Sox' executive consultant for public affairs with an emphasis 
on community projects. He also was the coordinator of the Boston Red Sox 
Hall of Fame, to which he was inducted in 2002. He was inducted in the 
Kinston Professional Baseball Hall of Fame in 1985. A native of South Providence, 
Rhode Island, Gorman grew up a Red Sox fan. At the high school level, at 
La Salle Academy, Providence, he was an excellent athlete, but was cut 
from the minors. His Baseball Reference player page records that Gorman 
played in 16 games for the 1948 Providence Grays of the Class B New England 
League, compiling a batting average of .036.[3] After his professional 
playing career stalled, Gorman enrolled in Stonehill College for his bachelor's 
degree and Bridgewater State College for his master's. Then he joined the 
United States Navy, where he served more than eight years of active duty, 
including two tours in Korea, and 34 years in all including his tenure 
with the United States Navy Reserve. He retired with the rank of captain.[4] 
Gorman resumed his baseball career in 1962 in minor league baseball when 
he became general manager with the Class D Lakeland Giants in the San Francisco 
Giants' system, then, in 1963 with the Single-A Kinston Eagles in the Pittsburgh 
Pirates' chain.[5] He then joined the Baltimore Orioles' Major League front 
office in 1964 as assistant farm system director. He was promoted to director 
of player development in 1966, when the Orioles won their first World Series 
championship. In 1968, Gorman became the first farm system director in 
the history of the Kansas City Royals, where he eventually also assumed 
control of the team's scouting department. For his efforts, he was promoted 
to vice president in 1973 and assistant general manager in 1976. But he 
soon departed for a new expansion team when he was appointed the first-ever 
general manager of the Seattle Mariners when they entered the American 
League in 1977. Although the under-capitalized Mariners struggled during 
Gorman's four seasons in Seattle, he obtained early Mariner standout Ruppert 
Jones in the 1976 Major League Baseball expansion draft (from his old Royals' 
organization) and drafted centerfielder Dave Henderson with his first-ever 
No. 1 choice in the June 1977 Major League Baseball draft.[6] After building 
the Seattle organization from scratch, he returned to the East Coast as 
vice president, player personnel, of the New York Mets in 1980. Working 
under Mets' GM Frank Cashen, with whom Gorman served with the Orioles, 
he helped lay the foundation for the Mets' 1986 World Series championship—achieved 
at the expense of his next team, the Red Sox. In the months preceding the 
1984 season, the Red Sox were embroiled in a legal dispute involving two 
ownership factions seeking control of the team. Gorman was named a vice 
president of baseball operations in the Boston front office in January 
1984; then, five months later, when the legal case was settled, he was 
officially appointed vice president and general manager, succeeding co-owner 
Haywood Sullivan, who moved up to chief executive officer.[7] When Gorman 
took on the GM job, the Red Sox already had players like Roger Clemens, 
Wade Boggs, Dwight Evans and Bob Stanley, stars that would form the nucleus 
of the talented Red Sox teams of the late 1980s. However, it was Gorman's 
acquisitions (from the Mariners) of Dave Henderson and Spike Owen and closer 
Calvin Schiraldi (from the Mets) that helped lead the Red Sox to the 1986 
World Series. Though the team made it back to the playoffs in 1988 and 
1990, it never got any closer to a championship than it had in 1986. Gorman 
made several key trades, such as picking up Nick Esasky and Rob Murphy 
from Cincinnati and getting closer Lee Smith for World Series goat Schiraldi 
and pitcher Al Nipper, but he made mistakes as well. It was Gorman who 
traded away future All-Stars Jeff Bagwell and Curt Schilling in pennant-stretch 
deals. The Boston farm system, which had produced players such as Mike 
Greenwell, Ellis Burks, Jody Reed and Todd Benzinger early in Gorman's 
tenure, developed everyday players such as Mo Vaughn, John Valentin, Aaron 
Sele, Tim Naehring, Carlos Quintana and Scott Hatteberg in the early 1990s, 
but the flow of talent was not enough to keep the club at the forefront 
of its division. The Red Sox were unable to retain free agents Bruce Hurst, 
Esasky and Mike Boddicker (a front-line starting pitcher acquired in the 
Schilling trade), and when the team returned to the free agent marketplace 
after the 1989 season, catcher Tony Peña and pitchers Jeff Reardon and 
Danny Darwin approached expectations, while high-profile signings Jack 
Clark, Frank Viola and Matt Young were major disappointments. The Red Sox 
won another AL East title in 1990, but a trade Gorman made for the pennant 
drive would ultimately come back to haunt the team. Looking to strengthen 
the bullpen, Gorman traded minor-league prospect Jeff Bagwell to the Houston 
Astros for relief pitcher Larry Andersen. As it turned out, Andersen would 
only pitch 15 games for the Red Sox before being declared a free agent 
as a result of the second collusion settlement, while Bagwell would play 
15 years for the Astros. The trade is now reckoned as one of the most lopsided 
deals in baseball history. After 1990, the Red Sox faded from contention. 
They finished a distant second in 1991, and in 1992 collapsed all the way 
to last place for the first time in 60 years. After another losing campaign 
in 1993, wholesale changes were made in the Red Sox front office. Gorman 
was relieved of his GM responsibilities after the season, becoming senior 
vice president of baseball operations. A few weeks later, John Harrington, 
executive director of the JRY Trust, which held managing general partner 
control of the team, bought out minority general partner Sullivan to assume 
full control. Harrington then hired Montréal Expos GM Dan Duquette (another 
native New Englander) as Gorman's permanent successor. Gorman was a senior 
vice president, then executive vice president, in the team's baseball operations 
department through 1996.[8] He also served as a member of the advisory 
board of the Baseball Assistance Team, a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization 
dedicated to helping former Major League, Minor League, and Negro League 
players through financial and medical difficulties. In his later years, 
Gorman was the Chairman of the Board of the Newport Gulls of the NECBL, 
and was instrumental to the team. After a period of declining health, Gorman 
died at Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, at age 82 on the Opening 
Day of the Red Sox' 2011 season.[4] Mayor Thomas Menino declared April 
8, 2011, the day of the home opener at Fenway Park, as Lou Gorman Day in 
Boston. The Red Sox also paid tribute to Gorman during the game that afternoon. 
