Louis John DiMuro (April 24, 1931 – June 7, 1982) was an American umpire 
in Major League Baseball who worked in the American League from 1963 until 
his death. DiMuro was born in Brooklyn, New York, and attended Henry Snyder 
High School in Jersey City, New Jersey, where he played football,[1] and 
then Jersey City Junior College. He served in the Air Force in West Germany, 
but a broken finger in the service ended his baseball playing career and 
he turned to umpiring, graduating from the Al Somers School and working 
in the Kentucky–Illinois–Tennessee League (1955), Northern League (1956), 
Eastern League (1957) and International League (1958–62).[2] He joined 
the AL staff and immediately worked a full schedule as a rookie in 1963. 
He was selected to work the World Series in 1969 and 1976, the All-Star 
Game in 1965, 1967, 1972 and 1981, and the American League Championship 
Series in 1971, 1975 and 1978, serving as crew chief in 1978. In Game 5 
of the 1969 World Series, the New York Mets held a 3 games to 1 lead over 
the heavily favored Baltimore Orioles, and were looking to close the series 
at home in front of a raucous crowd at Shea Stadium. The Orioles, behind 
the pitching of ace Dave McNally, led 3-0 in the bottom of the sixth inning 
when a pitch from McNally was low and inside to Mets leadoff hitter Cleon 
Jones. DiMuro, the home plate umpire, called the pitch a ball, but New 
York manager Gil Hodges appealed the ruling, believing the pitch hit Jones. 
Hodges showed the ball to DiMuro, and pointed out a speck of black shoe 
polish to DiMuro. DiMuro accepted Hodges' explanation, and awarded Jones 
first base. Baltimore manager Earl Weaver, who had been ejected from Game 
4 by umpire Shag Crawford for arguing balls and strikes, immediately came 
out and vehemently protested DiMuro's decision, to no avail. Donn Clendenon 
followed Jones by launching a two-run home run into the Baltimore bullpen 
in left field, pulling the Mets to within 3-2. The Mets tied the game in 
the seventh on a leadoff home run by light-hitting shortstop Al Weis, and 
scored two runs in the eighth with the help of two Baltimore errors. Jones 
caught a fly ball from Davey Johnson for the game's final out and a 5-3 
New York victory, setting off a wild celebration. Notably, DiMuro had been 
behind the plate barely two months earlier on August 13, 1969 when the 
Orioles' Jim Palmer pitched an 8-0 no-hitter against the Oakland Athletics.[3] 
In 1979, DiMuro was involved in a major collision near home plate with 
baserunner Cliff Johnson. The crash rendered DiMuro semiconscious and left 
him with an ailing hip for the remainder of his career. DiMuro missed the 
remainder of the season. He then slipped on dugout steps shortly after 
his return in 1980. Fellow crew member Larry Barnett would later remark, 
"He was one of the most decent human beings you'd ever meet, but he always 
seemed to have bad luck. If someone's bag would get lost, it would be his; 
if someone came down with the flu bug, it would be him."[4] At the time 
of his death, DiMuro was one of only nine umpires still using the outside 
chest protector which had been favored for many decades by AL umpires long 
after National League arbiters had switched to the inside protector, introduced 
by Baseball Hall of Fame umpire Bill Klem in the dead-ball era. Of the 
other outside-protector holdovers, Bill Haller retired after working the 
1982 World Series, Marty Springstead switched to the inside protector after 
the season, Dale Ford switched back to the inside protector after the 1983 
season (he had used the inside protector in 1981), and George Maloney and 
Russ Goetz retired after that season. Terry Cooney switched in 1984. Bill 
Kunkel died of cancer in May 1985 leaving Jerry Neudecker as the last one, 
and he retired after the 1985 season. The last active umpire who had once 
used the balloon protector, Joe Brinkman, switched to the inside protector 
in 1980. After a June 6, 1982 game between the Chicago White Sox and Texas 
Rangers at Arlington Stadium, DiMuro ate dinner with Rangers coach Darrell 
Johnson. Walking back to his hotel at about 11 PM, he was struck by a car 
while attempting to cross a busy street. He died about two hours later 
at Arlington Memorial Hospital of massive head injuries that resulted from 
striking his head on the car's windshield. No charges were filed against 
the driver. According to Durwood Merrill, doctors said nothing could have 
been done to save DiMuro's life. Merrill and crew members Larry Barnett 
and Mike Reilly were too upset to pack DiMuro's belongings in his hotel 
room afterward. That task fell to Al Clark, who was part of the incoming 
crew working the Ranger series against the Seattle Mariners. DiMuro was 
buried in East Lawn Cemetery in Tucson, Arizona, where he had lived since 
1976 after previously residing in Floral Park, New York and Westfield, 
New York. Rocky Roe was named to the American League staff as DiMuro's 
full-time replacement, joining Barnett, Merrill and Reilly for a series 
in Milwaukee between the Brewers and Baltimore Orioles. His five children 
included sons Mike and Ray, who also went on to umpire in the major leagues; 
Mike has been a major league umpire since 1999, and Ray worked occasionally 
as a substitute umpire in the AL from 1996 to 1999. Mike began wearing 
number 16 to honor his father in 2000; the number had previously been retired 
