As player As manager Louis "Lou" Boudreau (July 17, 1917 – August 10, 2001) 
was an American professional baseball player and manager. He played in 
Major League Baseball (MLB) for 15 seasons, primarily as a shortstop on 
the Cleveland Indians, and managed four teams for 15 seasons including 
10 seasons as a player-manager. He was also a radio announcer for the Chicago 
Cubs. Boudreau was an All-Star for seven seasons.[a] In 1948, Boudreau 
won the American League Most Valuable Player Award and managed the Cleveland 
Indians to the World Series title. He won the 1944 American League (AL) 
batting title (.327), and led the league in doubles in 1941, 1944, and 
1947. He led AL shortstops in fielding eight times. Boudreau still holds 
the MLB record for hitting the most consecutive doubles in a game (four), 
set on July 14, 1946. In 1970, Boudreau was elected to the National Baseball 
Hall of Fame. Boudreau was born in Harvey, Illinois, the son of Birdie 
(Henry) and Louis Boudreau.[1] His father was of French ancestry and his 
mother was Jewish.[2] He was raised as a Catholic,[3] and graduated from 
Thornton Township High School in Harvey, Illinois where he led the "Flying 
Clouds" to three straight Illinois high school championship games, finishing 
first in 1933 and second in 1934 and 1935.[4] Boudreau attended the University 
of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign, where he was a member of Phi Sigma Kappa 
fraternity and captain of the basketball and baseball teams. During the 
1936–37 basketball and baseball seasons, Boudreau led each Fighting Illini 
team to a Big Ten Conference championship.[5] During the 1937–38 basketball 
season, Boudreau was named an NCAA Men's Basketball All-American.[5] While 
still at Illinois, Cleveland Indians general manager Cy Slapnicka paid 
him an undisclosed sum in return for agreeing to play baseball for the 
Indians after he graduated.[citation needed] His father complained to the 
Big Ten Conference, and league officials ruled him ineligible for collegiate 
sports.[citation needed] During his senior year at Illinois, he played 
pro basketball with the Hammond Ciesar All-Americans of the National Basketball 
League. Despite playing professional baseball with Cleveland, Boudreau 
earned his Bachelor of Science in education from Illinois in 1940 and worked 
as the Illinois freshman basketball coach for the 1939 and 1940 teams. 
Boudreau stayed on as an assistant coach for the 1941–42 Illinois Fighting 
Illini men's basketball team and he was instrumental in recruiting future 
Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame Inductee Andy Phillip to play 
for Illinois.[5] Boudreau is only one of three Illinois Fighting Illini 
athletes to have their number retired; the other two athletes being Illinois 
Fighting Illini football players Red Grange and Dick Butkus.[5][when?] 
Boudreau made his major league debut on September 9, 1938 for the Cleveland 
Indians at 21 as a first baseman in his first game. In 1939, Indian manager 
Ossie Vitt told him that he would have to move from his normal third base 
position to shortstop since established slugger Ken Keltner already had 
the regular third base job.[6] In 1940, his first full year as a starter, 
he batted .295 with 46 doubles and 101 RBI, and was selected for the All-Star 
Game for the first of five consecutive seasons (MLB cancelled the 1945 
game due to war-time travel restrictions and did not name All-Stars).[7] 
Boudreau helped make history in 1941 as a key figure in stopping the 56-game 
hitting streak by Joe DiMaggio. After two sparkling stops by Keltner at 
third base on hard ground balls earlier in the game, Boudreau snagged a 
bad-hop grounder to short barehanded and started a double play retiring 
DiMaggio at first.[8] He finished the season with a modest .257 batting 
average, but had a league-leading 45 doubles. After the 1941 season, owner 
Alva Bradley promoted Indians manager Roger Peckinpaugh to general manager 
and appointed the 25-year-old Boudreau player-manager. Boudreau played 
and managed the Indians throughout World War II (playing basketball had 
put a strain on Boudreau's ankles that turned into arthritis, which classified 
him as 4-F and thus ineligible for military service).[6] In 1944, Boudreau 
turned 134 double plays, the most ever by a player-manager in MLB history. 
When he bought the Indians in 1947, Bill Veeck, after being approached 
by Boudreau, renewed the player-manager agreement with mixed feelings on 
both sides. However, Boudreau hit .355 in 1948 and Cleveland won the AL 
Pennant championship and the World Series, the Indians first World Series 
championship in 28 years and only the second (and as of 2016[update] its 
last) in Indians history, with Veeck and Boudreau publicly acknowledging 
each other's role in the team's success. Boudreau was released by the Indians 
as both player and manager following the 1950 season. He signed with the 
Boston Red Sox, playing full-time in 1951, moving up to player-manager 
in 1952 and managing from the bench in 1953–54. He then became the first 
manager of the Kansas City Athletics in 1955 after their move from Philadelphia 
until he was fired after 104 games in 1957 and replaced by Harry Craft. 
He last managed the Chicago Cubs, in 1960. Boudreau was elected to the 
Baseball Hall of Fame in 1970 with 77.33% of the vote. That same year, 
his uniform number 5 was retired by the Cleveland Indians (he wore number 
4 with the Red Sox). Boudreau is credited with inventing the infield shift, 
which came to be known colloquially as the "Boudreau shift." Because slugging 
Red Sox superstar Ted Williams was a dead-pull hitter, he moved most of 
his Cleveland Indian fielders to the right of second base against the Splendid 
Splinter, leaving only the third baseman and left fielder to the left of 
second but also very close to second base, far to the right of their normal 
positions. With characteristic stubborn pride, Teddy Ballgame refused the 
obvious advice from teammates to hit or bunt to left against the Boudreau 
shift, but great hitter that he was, not changing his approach against 
the shift didn't affect his hitting very much. Boudreau later admitted 
that the shift was more about "psyching out" Williams rather than playing 
him to pull. "I always considered the Boudreau shift a psychological, rather 
than a tactical" ploy, he declared in his autobiography Player-Manager. 
The Lou Boudreau Award is given every year to the Cleveland Indians' Minor 
League Player of the Year.[9][10] Boudreau did play-by-play for Cub games 
in 1958–59 before switching roles with manager "Jolly Cholly" Charlie Grimm 
in 1960. But after only one season as Cubs manager, Boudreau returned to 
the radio booth and remained there until 1987. He also did radio play-by-play 
for the Chicago Bulls in 1966–68. The presence of a Hall of Fame announcer 
affected at least one game. On June 23, 1976, the Cubs were two runs behind 
at home in the fourth inning of the second game of a doubleheader against 
the Pittsburgh Pirates at home when the umpires called the game on account 
of darkness (since there were no lights at Wrigley Field until 1988), announcing 
that the game would be resumed at the same point the next day as was normally 
the case in those days. But Boudreau knew the rules better than anyone 
else in the park, it turned out, for he went down quickly to the clubhouse 
and pointed out to the umpires that a game that was not yet an official 
game and hence could not be treated as suspended game (i.e., it had not 
gone five innings, or four and a half with the home team leading, as neither 
was the case), and as such had to be replayed from the first pitch (as 
was then the rule in a rainout). The umpires called the National League 
office, found Boudreau was correct, and removed the two-run Cubs deficit.[11] 
Boudreau married Della DeRuiter in 1938, who bore him four children. His 
daughter Sharyn married Denny McLain, a former star pitcher with the Detroit 
Tigers who was the last 30-game winner in the major leagues (31-6 for the 
world champion 1968 Detroit Tigers). Boudreau had a home in Frankfort, 
Illinois for many years. He died in 2001 at St. James medical center in 
Olympia Fields, Illinois. He received a Catholic funeral and his body was 
