Louis A. "Lou" Lamoriello (born October 21, 1942) is an American professional 
ice hockey executive and the current general manager of the Toronto Maple 
Leafs of the National Hockey League (NHL). Lamoriello, who had been with 
the New Jersey Devils from 1987 to 2015, served longer with a single team 
than any general manager in NHL history except Conn Smythe and Art Ross. 
On May 4, 2015, he stepped down as general manager of the Devils. On July 
23 he became the 16th general manager of the Maple Leafs. Under Lamoriello's 
management, the Devils, who had been barely competitive for their first 
five years in New Jersey, became one of the most successful teams in the 
NHL. The Devils made the Stanley Cup playoffs all but three times between 
1988 and 2012, qualified for five Stanley Cup Finals (in 1995, 2000, 2001, 
2003 and 2012) and won the Stanley Cup three times (in 1995, 2000 and 2003).[1] 
Lamoriello also served as general manager for Team USA in the 1996 World 
Cup of Hockey, in which the U.S. won the gold medal, as well as for the 
1998 Winter Olympics in Nagano.[2] Lamoriello also played a key role in 
negotiating the settlement of the 2004–05 NHL lockout to resume play for 
the 2005–06 season. In 2009, Lamoriello was inducted into the Hockey Hall 
of Fame in the builders category,[3] while in 2012, Lamoriello was inducted 
into the United States Hockey Hall of Fame. Lamoriello was born in Johnston, 
Rhode Island.[4] After attending La Salle Academy in Providence, Rhode 
Island, Lamoriello graduated from Providence College in 1963.[5] He received 
varsity letters in baseball and hockey and served each team as captain 
during his senior year.[5] Lamoriello was a math teacher at Johnston High 
School in Johnston, Rhode Island, for several years ending in the early 
1970s.[4] Lamoriello became head coach of the Providence College Friars 
men's ice hockey team in 1968 and became athletic director in July 1982.[5] 
During the 1982–83 season, the Friars were 33–10–0, the best record in 
the nation that year, and appeared in the Frozen Four for the first time 
since 1964. Lamoriello resigned as head coach in 1983.[5] As athletic director, 
he hired Rick Pitino as the head coach of the men's basketball team, where 
Pitino would go on to take Providence to the Final Four in 1987. In July 
1983, Lamoriello joined his fellow athletic directors at Boston College, 
Boston University, the University of New Hampshire and Northeastern University 
in forming the Hockey East Association.[5] He helped produce an interlocking 
schedule agreement with the Western Collegiate Hockey Association (WCHA) 
and negotiate the first television package in college ice hockey.[5] Lamoriello 
was the first commissioner of Hockey East.[5] The conference's executive 
committee voted on March 7, 1988, to name the conference championship trophy 
in his honor, as the Lamoriello Trophy.[5] A permanent trophy was commissioned 
and was presented at the 1999 championship.[5] On April 30, 1987, Lamoriello 
resigned as Hockey East commissioner and as athletic director at Providence 
to become president of the NHL's New Jersey Devils.[5] In April 1987, then-owner 
of the Devils, John McMullen, appointed Lamoriello president of the club. 
Lamoriello named himself general manager just before the start of the 1987–88 
season, a move that surprised many NHL observers. He had never played, 
coached or managed in the NHL, and was virtually unknown outside the American 
college hockey community. Over the next 28 years, Lamoriello presided over 
one of the most successful rebuilding projects in North American professional 
sports history. In his first season as GM, the Devils notched their first 
winning season in franchise history (dating back to their time as the Kansas 
City Scouts [1974–76] and Colorado Rockies [1976–82]) and reached the Wales 
Conference Finals. The Devils made the playoffs in all but five of his 
27 seasons as GM, and appeared in the Stanley Cup Finals in 1995 (won), 
2000 (won), 2001 (lost), 2003 (won) and 2012 (lost). After YankeeNets bought 
the Devils in 2000, Lamoriello was named chairman and CEO of the Devils, 
as well as vice-chairman and CEO of the then co-owned New Jersey Nets. 
He dropped the chairmanship of the Devils and resigned his posts on the 
Nets after Jeffrey Vanderbeek bought the Devils from YankeeNets 2004. For 
the most part, McMullen, Vanderbeek and current owner Joshua Harris left 
the Devils' operations in Lamoriello's hands. In 1992, Lamoriello was awarded 
the Lester Patrick Trophy for outstanding service to hockey in the United 
States. He also served as general manager for Team USA in the 1996 World 
Cup of Hockey[2] (in which the U.S. won the gold medal) and the 1998 Winter 
Olympics. Lamoriello is well known in NHL circles for his hard-nosed approach 
to contract negotiations. Pat Verbeek, Kirk Muller and Bill Guerin, among 
others, have been traded out of town after losing contract negotiations. 
He nearly traded Ken Daneyko, the Devils' all-time leader in games played, 
in 1989. According to Daneyko, Lamoriello believes in paying a third-line 
player as much as a first-line player if he feels they have the same value 
to the team.[6] Lamoriello, backed by Scouting Director David Conte, is 
known as a master drafter, showing consistent shrewdness in identifying 
and signing top talent that other teams were passing over.[7] For example, 
superstar goaltender Martin Brodeur was a 20th overall pick, while Czech 
star left winger Patrik Eliáš was drafted 51st. Players drafted in the 
first 20 picks have been the rare exception rather than the rule.[8] "He 
hasn't been able to money-whip everybody the way the Yankees do, outspending 
the world every year. Lamoriello has done what he has done mostly be being 
smart and tough and holding the whole thing together by himself sometimes," 
says sports journalist Mike Lupica.[9] Lamoriello said he studied the game 
for a long time before starting to manage at the NHL level. The former 
high school math teacher says that during his two-decade long tenure at 
Providence College, and later when commissioner of Hockey East, he followed 
professional hockey closely. When he started with the Devils in 1987, he 
says he took what he considered to be the best parts of the great teams 
— the Green Bay Packers, the New York Yankees and the Montreal Canadiens 
— and using his analytical background, applied them to managing the Devils.[10] 
“Lou’s a model for our business. This is not just the best run franchise 
in the NHL, it’s the best-run franchise in pro sports,” says long-time 
NHL executive and current Calgary Flames President of Hockey Operations 
Brian Burke.[7] Lamoriello has been lauded by NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman 
for his key role in bringing Soviet hockey stars, such as Viacheslav Fetisov 
and Sergei Starikov, to the NHL in the late 1980s. "Clearly he was one 
of the visionaries that understood there were highly talented hockey players 
in the former Soviet Union that could have a place in this League," said 
Bettman. It was one of the reasons cited by Bettman for Lamiorello's 2009 
induction into the Hockey Hall of Fame.[11] Lamoriello has fostered a "unique 
corporate culture" that has encouraged player loyalty. For example, Martin 
Brodeur took below market contracts to stay with the Devils for years, 
while defenseman Ken Daneyko played all 1,283 of his NHL games with the 
team.[12] "I like to think of my players as a family,": says Lamoriello. 
"And I like to think the success we’ve had through the years shows that 
the players value that as much as they do the Stanley Cups, knowing that 
the two go hand in hand."[10] When Lamoriello is asked the key to his success, 
he says it has been his systematic approach to player development. "It’s 
the team character this squad has... that you build on. I don’t ever use 
the word 'rebuild.' Based on my college background, I like to look at my 
roster as my seniors, juniors, sophomores and freshmen and gauge their 
development and roster turnover based on players going from one of those 
classes into the next. You have to build your staff and encourage them 
to be creative and realistic in their approach—and (not) be afraid to make 
a mistake. We stress that in drafting, player development, and coaching. 
You grow from your mistakes. I know I have."[10] When others are asked 
what makes Lamoriello successful, his dedication and singular focus on 
winning are mentioned again and again. Despite public disagreements, both 
superstar Claude Lemieux and former Assistant Coach John MacLean returned 
to the organization because of Lamioriello’s "dedication to winning." Veteran 
Devils defenseman Ken Daneyko says Lamoriello key factors in success are 
"his winning attitude, discipline and dedication. Nobody works harder."[8] 
On May 4, 2015, the Devils announced Lamoriello had handed his general 
manager post to Ray Shero, though he would remain as team president. On 
July 23, 2015, Lamoriello resigned from the New Jersey Devils to accept 
the general manager position with the Toronto Maple Leafs.[4] Lamoriello 
now works under Maple Leafs president Brendan Shanahan, who was the first 
player Lamoriello drafted as an NHL GM in the 1987 NHL Draft. On December 
19, 2005, following the surprise resignation of Larry Robinson as Devils 
head coach, Lamoriello took over the position on an interim basis. The 
Devils eventually made it the Eastern Conference Semifinals before falling 
to the Carolina Hurricanes. When asked on television after the Devils' 
victory over the New York Rangers in the first round of the playoffs if 
he was interested in becoming head coach permanently, Lamoriello replied, 
"Absolutely not," eventually hiring Claude Julien as head coach following 
the season. On April 2, 2007, Lamoriello once again took over as interim 
head coach after firing Julien. The firing took place with three games 
left in the season, when the Devils had the second-best record in the East 
and were on their way to setting a franchise record for regular season 
wins.[13] On December 27, 2014, Lamoriello announced that he, along with 
Scott Stevens and Adam Oates, would act as co-head coaches of the Devils 
following the firing of Peter DeBoer the day prior. In 1980, Lamoriello 
was inducted into the Providence College Athletic Hall of Fame.[5] In 1988, 
Hockey East named the conference championship trophy in Lamoriello's honour, 
the Lamoriello Trophy.[5] A permanent trophy was commissioned and was presented 
at the 1999 championship.[5] On June 23, 2009, it was announced that Lamoriello 
would be inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in the builders category. 
He was honoured during the November 6–9 induction weekend,[3] alongside 
Brett Hull, Brian Leetch, Luc Robitaille and Steve Yzerman. Lamoriello 
has been the general manager for three Stanley Cup championships, in 1995, 
2000 and 2003. Additionally, as a minority owner of Major League Baseball's 
New York Yankees, Lamoriello has a World Series ring from the Yankees' 
2009 World Series championship.[14] [15] On July 12, 2012, Lamoriello was 
inducted into the United States Hockey Hall of Fame. Lou Lamoriello has 
three adult children: Christopher, Heidi and Tim. Christopher works for 
the Devils as the senior vice president of hockey operations and general 
manager for the Devils' developmental teams in Albany and Trenton. Tim 
is a senior staff attorney for the New York Islanders. His son Chris married 
