Luis Manuel Castro (November 25, 1876 – September 24, 1941) was born in 
Medellín, Colombia. He was the first Latin American born player to play 
in Major League Baseball in the United States, and the first Latin American 
since Cuban player Esteban Bellán in 1873 to play professional baseball. 
If one does not consider the National Association a major league, then 
Castro was the first Latin American to play in Major League Baseball.[1] 
A second baseman and right-handed batter, Castro attended Manhattan College 
and played for the Jaspers baseball team. He played his one and only major 
league season with the 1902 American League champion Philadelphia Athletics. 
In his brief 42-game stint, he posted a .245 batting average, with one 
home run and 15 runs batted in, 35 hits, 18 runs scored, 8 doubles, 1 triple 
and two stolen bases in 143 at bats. For many years publications were not 
consistent about the birthplace of Luis Castro. It was commonly believed 
he was Venezuelan, but no official records supported the theory. The most 
common version of the story tells that Castro was a student at Manhattan 
College in New York and was signed to play at the major league level with 
the Philadelphia Athletics of the American League. He played just 42 games 
and after that he was released. There are records of his playing days in 
Minor League Baseball after 1902. It was also believed that he could have 
been the son of General Cipriano Castro, president of Venezuela, who sent 
his son to attend college in New York, and became a baseball player.The 
kid in order to hide his activities from his father, changed his nationality 
on the school records. The most recent version came after the United States 
government made public the original records of the 1930 census, and researchers 
found that a Louis Castro, with profession "baseball player", was a resident 
of Flushing, New York, and as his birthplace he stated: New York City, 
putting aside the fact that he was the first Latin American born to ever 
play baseball at the Major League level. Leonte Landino a baseball journalist 
and researcher for the Society of American Baseball Research (SABR) followed 
the path of longtime baseball writer Juan Vene and led the investigation 
along with Nick Martinez, a baseball researcher in Nevada about Castro's 
life and proof of birth outside the United States. Martinez found an original 
list of passengers from the S.S. Colon, which arrived in New York City 
on October 16, 1885. The ship sailed from the port of Aspinwall, United 
States of Colombia. In this list, passenger number 18 is N. Castro, 50 
years old, born in the United States of Colombia, listing banker as occupation, 
coming to America as a visitor. Passenger number 19 is Master Luis Castro, 
age 8, born in the United States of Colombia. The most consistent data 
about Castro's life is that his father was Nestor Castro. It is stated 
in his school records and his census card; therefore, this list proves 
that Castro came at 8 years old, with his father to New York and both entered 
the United States as visitors, and stayed in the country. His birth date 
of November 25, 1876 matches his reported age on the ship. Colombia and 
Panama formed the United States of Colombia, as a country, until 1886 when 
the country changed the name to Republic of Colombia. Panama became an 
independent republic on November 3, 1903. The city of Aspinwall was a center 
of dispute, since it was an important port of call and trade center for 
American companies who ended up calling the city "Aspinwall". However the 
locals refused this name and claimed that the city's name should be Colón. 
In 1890 the Colombian government decided to return every mail piece addressed 
to Aspinwall, changing the official name of the city to Colón, which still 
remains. Castro and his father, both born in Colombia, supposedly in Medellín 
according to school records, arrived in New York from Panama and started 
a new life in America in 1885. Castro received economic assistance during 
his old age. The official data from this office showed his birthplace as 
New York City. After the S.S. Colon log, it is assumed that Castro probably 
wanted to pass for an American citizen by birth, in order to receive economic 
benefits from the Association and to avoid any kind of discrimination. 
Recently, several baseball databases such as baseball-reference.com and 
baseball-almanac.com, changed his birthplace to New York, making Pedroes 
the first Latino in Major Leagues, but the discovery of the ship's information 
and passenger list provides a solid and perhaps irrefutable proof about 
his immigration to America. Even though he was not the first player who 
was brought by a team to play in the Major Leagues, Castro has to be recognized 
and credited as the first Major League Baseball player ever born in a Latin 
American country. Castro died in New York City at the age of 64. Leonte 
Landino and Juan Vene confirmed that Castro is buried with no tombstone 
on an unidentified space at St. Mary's cemetery in Queens, New York, as 
reflected on Vene's book "Las mejores anécdotas del béisbol" (Ediciones 
B, Venezuela, 2008. 212p. – (1 ed)). According to Landino's research on 
"La Prensa del Beisbol Latino", a SABR publication, Castro is at Division 
