Louis W. Bierbauer (September 28, 1865 – January 31, 1926) was an American 
professional baseball player of German descent. He was a second baseman 
in Major League Baseball during the late 1880s and 1890s.[1] Over that 
period of time, he played for the Philadelphia Athletics of the American 
Association before joining many other major leaguers in jumping to the 
Brooklyn Ward's Wonders in the newly formed Players' League for the 1890 
season, a league which folded after just one year of play.[1] When the 
Players' League folded in 1891, pretty much every player that left the 
National League or the American Association for the league in 1890 was 
allowed to return to their original team. However Lou Bierbauer never signed 
a contract to return to Philadelphia Athletics. The National League's Pittsburg 
Alleghenys realizing Bierbauer's absence in the Athletics line-up soon 
became determined to sign him at all cost. Alfred Spink, the founder of 
the Sporting News, wrote about the incident in his 1910 book "The National 
Game". According to Spink, the Alleghenys' manager, Ned Hanlon, traveled 
to Presque Isle in the dead of winter to sign him, crossing the ice on 
the harbor during a snow storm. He finally reached Bierbauer's home and 
got him to sign a contract with Allegheny. The Athletics, upon learning 
of this deal, objected to Bierbauer's signing and stated that he should 
return to the A's, since that was the team that employed him before his 
defection to the failed Players' League. An official for the American Association 
also objected to Bierbauer signing with the Alleghenys and called the act 
"piratical." However the Alleghenys contended that since "the [American 
Association] did not reserve Bierbauer, he was a free agent". An arbitrator 
agreed, and soon players and fans alike were calling the team the "Pittsburg 
Pirates."[2] Bierbauer played for the Pirates for six seasons before moving 
on to the St. Louis Browns from 1897 to 1898. He later finished his professional 
baseball career in the minor leagues. Alfred Spink would go on to call 
Bierbauer the "one-time king of second basemen", a great "all-around player" 
who dominated both the National League and the American Association. In 
a 1955 story also reprinted in The Pirates Reader, a friend of Bierbauer 
told the Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph that "Louie loved the Pirates and rooted 
for them until the day of his death in 1926."[2] Bierbauer died in his 
hometown of Erie, Pennsylvania at the age of 60, and is interred at Erie 
