Henry Louis "Lou" or "Buster"[1] Gehrig (Born Heinrich Ludwig Gehrig; June 
19, 1903 – June 2, 1941) was an American baseball first baseman who played 
17 seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the New York Yankees, from 
1923 through 1939. Gehrig was renowned for his prowess as a hitter and 
for his durability, a trait that earned him his nickname "The Iron Horse". 
He was an All-Star seven consecutive times,[2] a Triple Crown winner once,[3] 
an American League (AL) Most Valuable Player twice,[3] and a member of 
six World Series champion teams. He had a career .340 batting average, 
.632 slugging average, and a .447 on base average. He hit 493 home runs 
and had 1,995 runs batted in (RBI). In 1939, he was elected to the Baseball 
Hall of Fame[4] and was the first MLB player to have his uniform number 
(4) retired by a team. A native of New York City and attendee of Columbia 
University, Gehrig signed with the Yankees in 1923. He set several major 
league records during his career,[5] including the most career grand slams 
(23) (since broken by Alex Rodriguez)[6][7] and most consecutive games 
played (2,130), a record that stood for 56 years and was long considered 
unbreakable until surpassed by Cal Ripken, Jr. in 1995.[8] Gehrig's streak 
ended on May 2, 1939, when he voluntarily took himself out of the lineup 
to stunned fans after his play was hampered by amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 
(ALS), an incurable neuromuscular disorder now commonly referred to in 
North America as Lou Gehrig's disease.[9] The disease forced him to retire 
at age 36 and was the cause of his death two years later. The pathos of 
his farewell from baseball was capped off by his iconic 1939 "Luckiest 
Man on the Face of the Earth" speech at Yankee Stadium. Gehrig was voted 
the greatest first baseman of all time by the Baseball Writers' Association 
in 1969,[10] and was the leading vote-getter on the Major League Baseball 
All-Century Team chosen by fans in 1999.[11] A monument in Gehrig's honor, 
originally dedicated by the Yankees in 1941, currently resides in Monument 
Park at Yankee Stadium. The Lou Gehrig Memorial Award is given annually 
to the MLB player best exhibiting his integrity and character. Gehrig was 
born at 309 East 94th Street[12] in the Yorkville neighborhood of Manhattan,[13] 
weighing almost 14 pounds (6.4 kg) at birth. He was the second of four 
children of German immigrants, Christina Foch (1881–1954) and Heinrich 
Gehrig (1867–1946).[14][15] His father was a sheet metal worker by trade 
but frequently unemployed due to alcoholism, and his mother - a maid - 
was the main breadwinner and disciplinarian in the family.[16] His two 
sisters died from whooping cough and measles at an early age; a brother 
also died in infancy.[17] From an early age, Gehrig helped his mother with 
work, doing tasks such as folding laundry and picking up supplies from 
the local stores.[18] In 1910, he lived with his parents at 2266 Amsterdam 
Avenue in Washington Heights.[19] In 1920, the family resided on 8th Avenue 
in Manhattan.[20] His name was often anglicized to Henry Louis Gehrig and 
he was known as "Lou" so that he would not be confused with his identically 
named father, who was known as Henry.[21] Gehrig first garnered national 
attention for his baseball ability while playing in a game at Cubs Park 
(now Wrigley Field) on June 26, 1920. His New York School of Commerce team 
was playing a team from Chicago's Lane Tech High School in front of a crowd 
of more than 10,000 spectators.[22] With his team leading 8–6 in the top 
of the ninth inning, Gehrig hit a grand slam completely out of the major 
league park, an unheard-of feat for a 17-year-old.[22][23] Gehrig attended 
PS 132 in the Washington Heights section of Manhattan, then went to Commerce 
High School, graduating in 1921.[24][25] He then studied at Columbia University 
for two years, although he did not graduate.[26] Initially, he went to 
Columbia on a football scholarship, where he was preparing to pursue a 
degree in engineering. However, before his first semester, under the influence 
of New York Giants manager John McGraw, he was advised to play on a summer 
professional baseball team under a false name, Henry Lewis, despite the 
fact that it could jeopardize his collegiate sports eligibility. After 
a dozen games played for the Hartford Senators in the Eastern League, he 
was discovered and banned from collegiate sports his freshman year.[27] 
In 1922, Gehrig returned to collegiate sports as a fullback for the Columbia 
Lions football program. Later, in 1923, he played first base and pitched 
for the Columbia baseball team.[27] At Columbia, he was a member of Phi 
Delta Theta fraternity.[28] On April 18, 1923, the same day that Yankee 
Stadium opened for the first time and Babe Ruth inaugurated the new stadium 
with a home run against the Boston Red Sox, Columbia pitcher Gehrig struck 
out seventeen Williams College batters to set a team record, though Columbia 
lost the game. Only a handful of collegians were at South Field that day, 
but more significant was the presence of Yankee scout Paul Krichell, who 
had been trailing Gehrig for some time. It was not Gehrig's pitching that 
particularly impressed him; rather, it was Gehrig's powerful left-handed 
hitting. During the time Krichell observed him, Gehrig had hit some of 
the longest home runs ever seen on various eastern campuses, including 
a 450-foot (137 m) home run on April 28 at Columbia's South Field, which 
landed at 116th Street and Broadway.[29] He signed a contract with the 
Yankees on April 30.[30] He returned to minor-league Hartford to play parts 
of two seasons, 1923 and 1924, batting .344 and hitting 61 home runs in 
193 games. It was the only time Gehrig had ever played any level of baseball—sandlot, 
high school, collegiate or pro—for a team based outside New York City. 
Gehrig joined the New York Yankees midway through the 1923 season and made 
his Major League debut at age 19 on June 15, 1923, as a pinch hitter. In 
his first two seasons, he saw limited playing time, mostly as a pinch hitter—he 
played in only 23 games and was not on the Yankees' 1923 World Series roster. 
In 1925, he batted .295, with 20 home runs and 68 runs batted in (RBIs).[31] 
The 23-year-old Yankee first baseman's breakout season came in 1926, when 
he batted .313 with 47 doubles, an American League-leading 20 triples, 
16 home runs, and 112 RBI.[27] In the 1926 World Series against the St. 
Louis Cardinals, Gehrig hit .348 with two doubles and 4 RBIs. The Cardinals 
won the series four games to three.[32] In 1927, Gehrig put together one 
of the greatest seasons by any batter in history, hitting .373, with 218 hits: 
101 singles, 52 doubles, 18 triples, 47 home runs, a then-record 175 runs 
batted in (surpassing teammate Babe Ruth's 171 six years earlier), and 
a .765 slugging percentage.[27] His 117 extra-base hits that season are 
second all-time to Babe Ruth's 119 extra-base hits in 1921[27] and his 
447 total bases are third all-time, after Babe Ruth's 457 total bases in 
1921 and Rogers Hornsby's 450 in 1922.[27] Gehrig's production helped the 
1927 Yankees to a 110–44 record, the AL pennant (by 19 games), and a four-game 
sweep of the Pittsburgh Pirates in the World Series. Although the AL recognized 
his season by naming him league MVP, Gehrig's accomplishments were overshadowed 
by Babe Ruth's 60 home run season and the overall dominance of the 1927 
Yankees, a team often cited as having the greatest lineup of all time — 
the famed "Murderers' Row".[33] Despite playing in the shadow of the larger-than-life 
Ruth for two-thirds of his career, Gehrig was one of the highest run producers 
in baseball history: he had 509 RBIs during a three-season stretch (1930–32). 
Only two other players, Jimmie Foxx with 507 and Hank Greenberg with 503, 
have surpassed 500 RBIs in any three seasons; their totals were non-consecutive. 
(Babe Ruth had 498.)[34] Playing 14 complete seasons, Gehrig had 13 consecutive 
seasons with 100 or more RBIs (a major league record shared with Foxx until 
eclipsed in 2010 by Alex Rodriguez). Gehrig had six seasons where he batted 
.350 or better (with a high of .379 in 1930), plus a seventh season at 
.349. He had seven seasons with 150 or more RBIs, 11 with over 100 walks, 
eight with 200 or more hits, and five with more than 40 home runs.[35] 
Gehrig led the American League in runs scored four times, home runs three 
times, and RBIs five times. His 184 RBIs in 1931 remain the American League 
record as of 2015 and rank second all-time to Hack Wilson's 191 in 1930. 
On the single-season RBI list, Gehrig ranks second, fifth (175), and sixth 
(174), with four additional seasons of over 150 RBIs. He also holds the 
baseball record for most seasons with 400 total bases or more, accomplishing 
this feat five times in his career.[35] He batted fourth in the lineup 
behind Ruth, making it counterproductive to opposing pitchers to intentionally 
walk Ruth. During the ten seasons (1925–1934) in which Gehrig and Ruth 
were teammates and next to each other in the batting order and played a 
majority of the games, Gehrig had more home runs than Ruth only once, in 
1934 (which was Ruth's last year with the Yankees), when he hit 49 to Ruth's 
22 (Ruth played 125 games that year). They tied at 46 in 1931. Ruth had 
424 home runs compared to Gehrig's 347. However, Gehrig outpaced Ruth in 
RBI, 1,436 to 1,316. Gehrig had a .343 batting average, compared to .338 
for Ruth.[36] In 1932, Gehrig became the first player in the 20th century 
to hit four home runs in a game, accomplishing the feat on June 3 against 
the Philadelphia Athletics.[37] He narrowly missed getting a fifth home 
run when Athletics center fielder Al Simmons made a leaping catch of another 
fly ball at the center field fence. After the game, manager Joe McCarthy 
told him, "Well, Lou, nobody can take today away from you." On the same 
day, however, John McGraw announced his retirement after thirty years of 
managing the New York Giants. McGraw, not Gehrig, got the main headlines 
in the sports sections the next day.[38] In September 1933, Gehrig married 
Eleanor Twitchell (1904 or 1905–1984), the daughter of Chicago Parks Commissioner 
Frank Twitchell.[27] In a 1936 World Series cover story about Lou Gehrig 
and Carl Hubbell, Time proclaimed Gehrig "the game's No. 1 batsman", who 
"takes boyish pride in banging a baseball as far, and running around the 
bases as quickly, as possible".[39] Also in 1936, at the urging of his 
wife Eleanor, Gehrig agreed to hire Babe Ruth's agent, who in turn, persuaded 
him to audition for the role of Tarzan, the Ape Man, after Johnny Weissmuller 
had vacated the iconic movie role. But Gehrig only got as far as posing 
for a widely distributed, and embarrassing, photo of himself in a leopard-spotted 
costume. When Tarzan creator Edgar Rice Burroughs spotted the outfit, he 
telegrammed Gehrig, "I want to congratulate you on being a swell first 
baseman."[40] On June 1, 1925, Gehrig entered the game as a pinch hitter, 
substituting for shortstop Paul "Pee Wee" Wanninger. The next day, June 
2, Yankee manager Miller Huggins started Gehrig in place of regular first 
baseman Wally Pipp. Pipp was in a slump, as was the team, so Huggins made 
several lineup changes to boost their performance, replacing Pipp, Aaron 
Ward, and Wally Schang.[41] Fourteen years later, Gehrig had played 2,130 consecutive 
games. In a few instances, Gehrig managed to keep the streak intact through 
pinch hitting appearances and fortuitous timing; in others, the streak 
continued despite injuries. For example: In addition, X-rays taken late 
in his life disclosed that Gehrig had sustained several fractures during 
his playing career, although he remained in the lineup despite those previously 
undisclosed injuries.[44] On the other hand, the streak was helped when 
Yankees general manager Ed Barrow postponed a game as a rainout on a day 
when Gehrig was sick with the flu—even though it was not raining.[45] Gehrig's 
record of 2,130 consecutive games played stood until September 6, 1995, 
when Baltimore Orioles shortstop Cal Ripken, Jr. surpassed it.[46] Although 
his performance in the second half of the 1938 season was slightly better 
than in the first half, Gehrig reported physical changes at the midway 
point. At the end of that season, he said, "I tired mid-season. I don't 
know why, but I just couldn't get going again." Although his final 1938 
statistics were above average (.295 batting average, 114 RBI, 170 hits, 
.523 slugging percentage, 689 plate appearances with only 75 strikeouts, 
and 29 home runs), they were significantly down from his 1937 season, in 
which he batted .351 and slugged .643. In the 1938 World Series, he had 
four hits in 14 at-bats, all singles.[47] When the Yankees began their 
1939 spring training in St. Petersburg, Florida, it was clear that Gehrig 
no longer possessed his once-formidable power. Even his base running was 
affected, and at one point he collapsed at Al Lang Field, then the Yankees' 
spring training park.[48] By the end of spring training, he had not hit 
a home run.[49] Throughout his career, Gehrig was considered an excellent 
base runner, but as the 1939 season got under way, his coordination and 
speed had deteriorated significantly.[50] By the end of April, his statistics 
were the worst of his career, with one RBI and a .143 batting average. 
Fans and the press openly speculated on Gehrig's abrupt decline. James 
Kahn, a reporter who wrote often about Gehrig, said in one article: I think 
there is something wrong with him. Physically wrong, I mean. I don't know 
what it is, but I am satisfied that it goes far beyond his ball-playing. 
I have seen ballplayers 'go' overnight, as Gehrig seems to have done. But 
they were simply washed up as ballplayers. It's something deeper than that 
in this case, though. I have watched him very closely and this is what 
I have seen: I have seen him time a ball perfectly, swing on it as hard 
as he can, meet it squarely—and drive a soft, looping fly over the infield. 
In other words, for some reason that I do not know, his old power isn't 
there... He is meeting the ball, time after time, and it isn't going anywhere.[51] 
He was indeed meeting the ball, with only one strikeout in 28 at-bats; 
however, Joe McCarthy found himself resisting pressure from Yankee management 
to switch Gehrig to a part-time role. Things came to a head when Gehrig 
struggled to make a routine put-out at first base. The pitcher, Johnny 
Murphy, had to wait for him to drag himself over to the bag so he could 
field the throw. Murphy said, "Nice play, Lou."[51] On April 30, Gehrig 
went hitless against the Washington Senators. He had just played his 2,130th 
consecutive major league game.[36] On May 2, the next game after a day 
off, Gehrig approached McCarthy before the game in Detroit against the 
Tigers and said, "I'm benching myself, Joe", telling the Yankees' skipper 
that he was doing so "for the good of the team."[52] McCarthy acquiesced, 
putting Ellsworth "Babe" Dahlgren in at first base, and also said that 
whenever Gehrig wanted to play again, the position was his. Gehrig, as 
Yankee captain, himself took the lineup card out to the shocked umpires 
before the game, ending the fourteen-year streak. Before the game began, 
the Briggs Stadium announcer told the fans, "Ladies and gentlemen, this 
is the first time Lou Gehrig's name will not appear on the Yankee lineup 
in 2,130 consecutive games." The Detroit Tigers' fans gave Gehrig a standing 
ovation while he sat on the bench with tears in his eyes.[47] A wire service 
photograph of Gehrig reclining against the dugout steps with a stoic expression 
appeared the next day in the nation's newspapers. He stayed with the Yankees 
as team captain for the rest of the season but never played in a major 
league game again.[47] As Gehrig's debilitation became steadily worse, 
his wife Eleanor called the famed Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. 
Her call was transferred to Charles William Mayo, who had been following 
Gehrig's career and his mysterious loss of strength. Mayo told Eleanor 
to bring Gehrig as soon as possible.[47] Gehrig flew alone to Rochester 
from Chicago, where the Yankees were playing at the time, arriving at the 
Mayo Clinic on June 13, 1939. After six days of extensive testing at Mayo 
Clinic, the diagnosis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) was confirmed 
on June 19, 1939, which was Gehrig's 36th birthday.[53] The prognosis was 
grim: rapidly increasing paralysis, difficulty in swallowing and speaking, 
and a life expectancy of less than three years, although there would be 
no impairment of mental functions. Eleanor Gehrig was told that the cause 
of ALS was unknown but it was painless, non-contagious, and cruel—the motor 
function of the central nervous system is destroyed, but the mind remains 
fully aware to the end.[54][55] Gehrig often wrote letters to Eleanor, 
and in one such note written shortly afterwards, said in part: The bad 
news is lateral sclerosis, in our language chronic infantile paralysis. 
There isn't any cure... there are very few of these cases. It is probably 
caused by some germ...Never heard of transmitting it to mates... There 
is a 50–50 chance of keeping me as I am. I may need a cane in 10 or 15 
years. Playing is out of the question...[56] Following Gehrig's visit to 
the Mayo Clinic, he briefly rejoined the Yankees in Washington, D.C. As 
his train pulled into Union Station, he was greeted by a group of Boy Scouts, 
happily waving and wishing him luck. Gehrig waved back, but he leaned forward 
to his companion, Rutherford "Rud" Rennie of the New York Herald Tribune, 
and said, "They're wishing me luck—and I'm dying."[14][57][58] An article 
in the September 2010 issue of the Journal of Neuropathology & Experimental 
Neurology[59] suggested the possibility that some ALS-related illnesses 
diagnosed in Gehrig and other athletes may have been catalyzed by repeated 
concussions and other brain trauma.[60][61][62] In 2012, Minnesota State 
legislators sought to unseal Gehrig's medical records, which are held by 
the Mayo Clinic, in an effort to determine a connection, if any, between 
his illness and the concussion-related trauma he received during his career, 
prior to the advent of batting helmets and other protective equipment. 
The effort was abandoned after several leading medical experts explained 
that a records review would have no value unless correlated with autopsy 
data. (Gehrig was not autopsied, and his remains were cremated.)[63] On 
June 21, 1939, the New York Yankees announced Gehrig's retirement. The 
doctors of the Mayo Clinic had released his ALS diagnosis to the public 
on June 19. There was then a public push to honor Gehrig. The idea of an 
appreciation day reportedly began with Bill Hirsch, a friend of sports 
columnist Bill Corum. Corum spoke of the idea in his column, and other 
sportswriters picked up on the idea, promoting it far and wide in their 
respective periodicals. Someone suggested the appreciation day be held 
during the All-Star Game, but when Yankees owner Ed Barrow got a hold of 
the idea, he quickly shot down the All-Star Game suggestion. He didn't 
want Gehrig to share the spotlight with any other all-star. Believing the 
idea was valid and the best thing to do, he wanted the appreciation day 
to be soon, and the Yankees proclaimed July 4, 1939, "Lou Gehrig Appreciation 
Day" at Yankee Stadium. Between games of the Independence Day doubleheader 
against the Washington Senators, the poignant ceremonies were held on the 
diamond. In its coverage the following day, The New York Times said it 
was "perhaps as colorful and dramatic a pageant as ever was enacted on 
a baseball field [as] 61,808 fans thundered a hail and farewell."[64] Dignitaries 
extolled the dying slugger and the members of the 1927 Yankees World Series 
team, known as "Murderer's Row", attended the ceremonies. New York Mayor 
Fiorello La Guardia called Gehrig "the greatest prototype of good sportsmanship 
and citizenship" and Postmaster General James Farley concluded his speech 
by predicting, "For generations to come, boys who play baseball will point 
with pride to your record."[64] Yankees Manager Joe McCarthy, struggling 
to control his emotions, then spoke of Lou Gehrig, with whom he had a close, 
almost father-and-son–like bond. After describing Gehrig as "the finest 
example of a ballplayer, sportsman, and citizen that baseball has ever 
known", McCarthy could stand it no longer. Turning tearfully to Gehrig, 
the manager said, "Lou, what else can I say except that it was a sad day 
in the life of everybody who knew you when you came into my hotel room 
that day in Detroit and told me you were quitting as a ballplayer because 
you felt yourself a hindrance to the team. My God, man, you were never 
that."[65] The Yankees retired Gehrig's uniform number "4", making him 
the first player in Major League Baseball history to be accorded that honor.[66] 
Gehrig was given many gifts, commemorative plaques, and trophies. Some 
came from VIPs; others came from the stadium's groundskeepers and janitorial 
staff. Footage of the ceremonies shows Gehrig being handed various gifts, 
and immediately setting them down on the ground, because he no longer had 
the arm strength to hold them.[14] The Yankees gave him a silver trophy 
with their signatures engraved on it. Inscribed on the front was a special 
poem written by The New York Times writer John Kieran. The inscription 
on the trophy presented to Gehrig from his Yankees teammates:[67] "We've 
been to the wars together; We took our foes as they came; And always you 
were the leader, And ever you played the game. Idol of cheering millions, 
Records are yours by sheaves; Iron of frame they hailed you Decked you 
with laurel leaves. But higher than that we hold you, We who have known 
you best; Knowing the way you came through Every human test. Let this be 
a silent token Of lasting Friendship's gleam, And all that we've left unspoken; 
Your Pals of the Yankees Team." The trophy cost only about $5, but it became 
one of Gehrig's most prized possessions.[68] It is currently on display 
at the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum. On July 4, 1939, Gehrig 
delivered what has been called "baseball's Gettysburg Address" to a sold-out 
crowd at Yankee Stadium:[69][70][71] Fans, for the past two weeks you have 
been reading about the bad break I got. Yet today I consider myself the 
luckiest man on the face of the earth. I have been in ballparks for seventeen 
years and have never received anything but kindness and encouragement from 
you fans. When you look around, wouldn't you consider it a privilege to 
associate yourself with such fine looking men as are standing in uniform 
in this ballpark today? Sure, I'm lucky. Who wouldn't consider it an honor 
to have known Jacob Ruppert? Also, the builder of baseball's greatest empire, 
Ed Barrow? To have spent six years with that wonderful little fellow, Miller 
Huggins? Then to have spent the next nine years with that outstanding leader, 
that smart student of psychology, the best manager in baseball today, Joe 
McCarthy? Sure, I'm lucky. When the New York Giants, a team you would give 
your right arm to beat, and vice versa, sends you a gift—that's something. 
When everybody down to the groundskeepers and those boys in white coats 
remember you with trophies—that's something. When you have a wonderful 
mother-in-law who takes sides with you in squabbles with her own daughter—that's 
something. When you have a father and a mother who work all their lives 
so that you can have an education and build your body—it's a blessing. 
When you have a wife who has been a tower of strength and shown more courage 
than you dreamed existed—that's the finest I know. So I close in saying 
that I might have been given a bad break, but I've got an awful lot to 
live for. Thank you. There is no known intact film of Gehrig's speech; 
only a small snippet of the newsreel footage has survived, incorporating 
his opening and closing remarks: "For the past two weeks you have been 
reading about the bad break I got. Yet today I consider myself the luckiest 
man on the face of this earth. . . . When you look around, wouldn't you 
consider it a privilege to associate yourself with such fine looking men 
as are standing in uniform in this ballpark today? . . . . that I may have 
been given a bad break, but I have an awful lot to live for. Thank you."[72] 
The crowd stood and applauded for almost two minutes. Gehrig was visibly 
shaken as he stepped away from the microphone, and wiped the tears away 
from his face with his handkerchief.[68] Babe Ruth came over and hugged 
him as a band played "I Love You Truly" and the crowd chanted, "We love 
you, Lou". The New York Times account the following day called it "one 
of the most touching scenes ever witnessed on a ball field", that made 
even hard-boiled reporters "swallow hard."[64] On December 7, 1939, Lou 
Gehrig was elected to the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum in 
a special election related to his illness during the winter meeting by 
the Baseball Writers' Association.[73] At age 36, he was the youngest player 
to be so honored to date (that figure would be surpassed by Sandy Koufax 
in 1972).[74] He never had a formal induction ceremony. On July 28, 2013, 
he and eleven other deceased players, including Rogers Hornsby received 
a special tribute during the induction ceremony, held during "Hall of Fame 
Induction Weekend", July 26–29 in Cooperstown, New York.[75] "Don't think 
I am depressed or pessimistic about my condition at present", Lou Gehrig 
wrote following his retirement from baseball. Struggling against his ever-worsening 
physical condition, he added, "I intend to hold on as long as possible 
and then if the inevitable comes, I will accept it philosophically and 
hope for the best. That's all we can do."[14] In October 1939, he accepted 
Mayor Fiorello La Guardia's appointment to a ten-year term as a New York 
City Parole Commissioner (Gehrig had moved from New Rochelle to Riverdale 
in order to satisfy a residency requirement for the job) and was sworn 
into office on January 2, 1940.[73] The Parole Commission commended the 
ex-ballplayer for his "firm belief in parole, properly administered", stating 
that Gehrig "indicated he accepted the parole post because it represented 
an opportunity for public service. He had rejected other job offers – including 
lucrative speaking and guest appearance opportunities – worth far more 
financially than the $5,700 a year commissionership." Gehrig visited New 
York City's correctional facilities, but insisted that the visits not be 
covered by news media.[76] Gehrig, as always, quietly and efficiently performed 
his duties. He was often helped by his wife Eleanor, who would guide his 
hand when he had to sign official documents. About a month before his death, 
when Gehrig reached the point where his deteriorating physical condition 
made it impossible for him to continue in the job, he quietly resigned.[77] 
On June 2, 1941, at 10:10 p.m., Gehrig died at his home at 5204 Delafield 
Avenue in the Riverdale neighborhood of the Bronx, New York.[78][79] Upon 
hearing the news, Babe Ruth and his wife Claire went to the Gehrig house 
to console Eleanor. Mayor La Guardia ordered flags in New York to be flown 
at half-staff, and Major League ballparks around the nation did likewise.[80] 
Following the funeral across the street from his house at Christ Episcopal 
Church of Riverdale, Gehrig's remains were cremated and interred on June 
4 at Kensico Cemetery in Valhalla, New York, which is 21 miles north of 
Yankee Stadium in suburban Westchester County. Lou Gehrig and Ed Barrow 
are both interred in the same section of Kensico Cemetery, which is next 
door to Gate of Heaven Cemetery, where the graves of Babe Ruth and Billy 
Martin are both located in Section 25.[81] The Gehrigs had no children 
during their eight-year marriage. Eleanor never remarried, and was quoted 
as saying, "I had the best of it. I would not have traded two minutes of 
my life with that man for 40 years with another." She dedicated the remainder 
of her life to supporting ALS research. She died 43 years after Lou on 
March 6, 1984, and was interred with him in Kensico Cemetery.[23] The Yankees 
dedicated a monument to Gehrig in center field at Yankee Stadium on July 
6, 1941, the shrine lauding him as, "A man, a gentleman and a great ballplayer 
whose amazing record of 2,130 consecutive games should stand for all time." 
Gehrig's monument joined the one placed there in 1932 to Miller Huggins, 
which would eventually be followed by Babe Ruth's in 1949.[36] Gehrig's 
birthplace in Manhattan, at 1994 Second Avenue (near E. 103rd Street), 
is memorialized with a plaque marking the site, as is another early residence 
on E. 94th Street (near Second Avenue). (As of December 26, 2011, the first 
mentioned plaque is not present due to ongoing construction. The second 
mentioned plaque is present, but ascribes to his birthplace, not early 
residence.) The Gehrigs' white house at 5204 Delafield Avenue in the Riverdale 
section of the Bronx, where Lou Gehrig died, still stands today on the 
east side of the Henry Hudson Parkway and is likewise marked by a plaque.[27] 
Sixty years after his farewell to baseball, Gehrig received the most votes 
of any baseball player on the Major League Baseball All-Century Team, chosen 
by fan balloting in 1999.[11] In 1999, editors at Sporting News ranked 
Lou Gehrig sixth on their list of "Baseball's 100 Greatest Players".[82] 
G is for Gehrig, The Pride of the Stadium; His record pure gold, His courage, 
pure radium. Gehrig starred in the 1938 20th Century Fox movie Rawhide, 
playing himself in his only feature film appearance.[87] In 2006, researchers 
presented a paper to the American Academy of Neurology, reporting on an 
analysis of Rawhide and photographs of Lou Gehrig from the 1937–1939 period, 
to ascertain when Gehrig began to show visible symptoms of amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis. They concluded that while atrophy of hand muscles could 
be detected in 1939 photographs of Gehrig, no such abnormality was visible 
at the time Rawhide was made in January 1938. "Examination of Rawhide showed 
that Gehrig functioned normally in January 1938", the report concluded.[88] 
The life of Lou Gehrig was the subject of the 1942 movie The Pride of the 
Yankees, starring Gary Cooper as Gehrig and Teresa Wright as his wife Eleanor. 
It received 11 Academy Award nominations and won in one category, Film 
Editing. Real-life Yankees Babe Ruth, Bob Meusel, Mark Koenig, and Bill 
Dickey (then still an active player) played themselves, as did sportscaster 
Bill Stern. The 1978 TV movie A Love Affair: The Eleanor and Lou Gehrig 
Story starred Blythe Danner and Edward Herrmann as Eleanor and Lou Gehrig. 
It was based on the 1976 autobiography My Luke and I, written by Eleanor 
Gehrig and Joseph Durso. In an episode of the PBS series Jean Shepherd's 
America, the Chicago-born Shepherd told of how he and his father (Jean 
Shepherd, Sr.) would watch Chicago White Sox games from the right field 
upper deck at Comiskey Park in the 1930s. On one occasion, the Sox were 
playing the Yankees, and Shepherd Sr. had been taunting Gehrig, yelling 
at him all day. In the top of the ninth, with Sox icon Ted Lyons holding 
a slim lead, Gehrig came up with a man on base, and the senior Shepherd 
yelled in a voice that echoed around the ballpark, "Hit one up here, ya 
bum! I dare ya!" Gehrig did exactly that, hitting a screaming liner, practically 
into the heckler's lap, for the eventual game-winning home run. Shepherd's 
father was booed mercilessly, and he never again took junior Jean to a 
game. He apparently told this story originally when Gehrig's widow was 
