Louis Francis Sockalexis (October 24, 1871 – December 24, 1913), nicknamed 
The Deerfoot of the Diamond, was an American baseball player. Sockalexis 
played professional baseball in the National League for three seasons, 
spending his entire career (1897-1899) as an outfielder for the Cleveland 
Spiders. A Native American from the Penobscot tribe, Sockalexis is often 
identified as the first person of Native American ancestry to play in Major 
League Baseball, though many conflicting reports exist. In some cases, 
Jim Toy, a catcher in the early American Association, is identified as 
the first person with Native American ancestry to play major league baseball.[1] 
Author Ed Rice has disputed this, having found a death certificate for 
Toy stating his race as Caucasian, although birth records of the time are 
notoriously inaccurate. Also, Chief Yellow Horse, who played in the early 
1920s, is noted as the first full-blooded American Indian to have played 
in the major leagues.[2] Louis Sockalexis was born on the Penobscot Indian 
reservation near Old Town, Maine in 1871. His grandfather was Chief of 
the Bear Clan.[3] In his youth, Sockalexis' athletic talents were very 
noticeable. It was reported that Sockalexis could throw a baseball across 
the Penobscot River from Indian Island to the shore of Old Town.[3] Additionally, 
it is said that Sockalexis and his father entertained crowds at the Bangor 
Race Track by playing catch across the entire track.[3] He attended High 
School in Van Buren's St. Mary's. After completing his secondary education, 
Sockalexis began his college career in 1894 at the College of the Holy 
Cross.[3] While there, he participated on the school's baseball, football, 
and track teams.[4] Sockalexis spent those summers playing baseball in 
the Trolley League along the coast of Maine.[3] After the end of the 1895-96 
baseball season, the Holy Cross baseball coach accepted a position at the 
University of Notre Dame in February 1897. When that happened, Sockalexis 
decided to transfer to Notre Dame.[5] In his two season at Holy Cross, 
Sockalexis compiled a .444 batting average.[3] Sockalexis biographer Ed 
Rice challenges this entire Notre Dame-Giants account, since there is (1) 
no known newspaper account of it and (2) it sounds too remarkably like 
the account that actually occurred when the Cleveland team played the Giants 
for the first time in the Polo Grounds. In 1897, the Notre Dame baseball 
team played an exhibition game against the New York Giants at the Polo 
Grounds.[5] In a sign of things to come, Sockalexis had to deal with taunts, 
racism, and insulting chants during the game.[3] At the same time, sports 
writers in attendance insulted a delegation of Pensobscots who had come 
from Old Town to watch the game.[3] Amos Rusie, a future member of the 
Baseball Hall of Fame, pitched that day for the Giants; and, before the 
game, Rusie had promised to strike out Sockalexis.[3] Things did not go 
well for Rusie as Sockalexis hit a home run following Rusie's first pitch.[3] 
Here, Rice completely challenges the Notre Dame account: Why would Rusie 
promise to strike out the "damned Indian" as he characterized Sockalexis 
before he and the Cleveland team arrived in New York? When this incident 
occurred in the professional game, Rice and Society for American Baseball 
Research member Richard "Dixie" Tourangeau discovered Rusie had a reason 
to be upset with Sockalexis. It seems earlier in the 1897 season, New York 
had played a series in Cleveland; in the game Rusie pitched there, the 
game went into extra innings and Sockalexis got the game-winning hit off 
Rusie. This Notre Dame account hasn't been proven. However, Sockalexis' 
career at Notre Dame was short. In an event that foreshadowed future problems, 
the University expelled Sockalexis not long after he arrived for his problems 
with alcohol.[6] Although he played exclusively as an outfielder in the 
majors, Sockalexis played outfield and pitcher while at Notre Dame and 
Holy Cross.[4] On March 9, 1897, Sockalexis signed a major league contract 
with the Cleveland Spiders. Just a month later, on April 22, Sockalexis 
made his major league debut. Just a few months after he was expelled from 
school, his drinking problems resurfaced. On July 4, 1897, Sockalexis, 
in an inebriated condition, jumped from the second-story window of a brothel. 
He severely injured his ankle in the fall.[6] Evidently, the injury affected 
his play. In the five games after the injury, he had nine hits in 18 at 
bats.[6] However, his fielding was not very good. From July 25 until September 
12, Sockalexis played in just one game. In that game, he committed two 
errors.[6] In his first season with the Spiders, Sockalexis hit for a .338 
batting average with three home runs and 42 RBIs. In 66 games that season, 
Sockalexis also had 16 stolen bases. Burdened by his alcoholism,[3] Sockalexis 
played just two more seasons of major league baseball. After a mediocre 
1898 campaign, in 1899, a combined ownership cartel that controlled both 
the Cleveland Spiders and the St. Louis Perfectos engineered a 'trade' 
in which all of Cleveland's best players were assigned to St. Louis—in 
this way, the St. Louis team would have a shot at the pennant, while the 
Cleveland team would be allowed to languish. Sockalexis, no longer considered 
a star, was kept in Cleveland. After playing just 7 games for what is often 
considered the worst team in major league baseball history, the Spiders 
released Sockalexis, and his major league career was over. Sockalexis finished 
his career in the minor leagues and returned to Indian Island to coach 
juvenile teams in 1901.[3] Five players whom he coached went on to play 
in the New England League. However, his baseball career ended for good 
in 1903.[6] Sockalexis suffered from tuberculosis and heart trouble in 
his later years.[3] On Christmas Eve, 1913, Sockalexis died in Burlington, 
Maine. Although Sockalexis had a brief career, he faced many obstacles 
during his time in professional baseball. It was reported that fans of 
the opposing teams often shouted racial slurs toward him due to his Penobscot 
heritage. Additionally, fans imitated war whoops and war dances in his 
presence.[1] Later, when sports journalists attributed his rapid decline 
to alcoholism, they identified the disease as the inherent "Indian weakness".[1] 
When the Cleveland Naps changed their name to the Indians in 1915, the 
franchise did so to honor Sockalexis.[7] The Indians' official media guide 
says that the owners solicited sportswriters to ask fans for their favorite 
nickname, and the name Indians was chosen by a young girl who wrote to 
one of the sportswriters whose column requested suggestions. She specifically 
mentioned Sockalexis and his heritage. A brief story in the February 28, 
1915, issue of the Plain Dealer states that the Cleveland Indians would 
wear the depiction of an Indian head on the left sleeves of their uniforms 
to "keep the Indians reminded of what the Braves did last year." [8] Sockalexis 
had died two years earlier. In recognition of his accomplishments, the 
American Indian Athletic Hall of Fame has elected Sockalexis. He was joined 
by his second cousin, marathon runner Andrew Sockalexis, who finished second 
in the 1912 and 1913 Boston Marathons and in fourth place at the 1912 Olympic 
