Louis Santop Loftin (January 17, 1890 – January 22, 1942) was an African-American 
baseball catcher in the Negro leagues. He became "one of the earliest superstars" 
and "black baseball's first legitimate home-run slugger" (Riley), and was 
elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 2006. Santop was born in Tyler, 
Texas. At age 19 he played for teams in Fort Worth, Texas and Guthrie, 
Oklahoma before joining the Philadelphia Giants. In 1910, his only full 
season with Philadelphia, Santop and Dick Redding formed a "kid battery", 
catcher and pitcher.(Riley) An amazing .406 lifetime hitter, Santop would 
often hit long home runs. In 1911, he hit an astonishing .470 and then, 
three years later, hit .455 for the Lincoln Stars. At this time, he was 
catching the two players considered the hardest throwing pitchers in the 
league: Smokey Joe Williams and "Cannonball" Dick Redding. While playing 
for the Hilldale Club in 1918, Santop was drafted in July in Class 1-A.[3] 
He served in the Navy. After military service in the U.S. Navy in World 
War I, Santop went on to have many more powerful years. After the war, 
he was the league's biggest drawing card and received $500 a month, one 
of the highest salaries paid, playing for the Hilldale Daisies. Hilldale 
won pennants from 1923 to 1925, but an error in the 1924 Colored World 
Series basically ended Santop's career. With Hilldale leading a game 2–1 
in the bottom of the ninth with one out and the winning runs on base, Santop 
dropped a popup off the bat of Monarchs catcher Frank Duncan that would 
have been the second out. On the next pitch, Duncan delivered the game-winning 
hit. In addition to the embarrassment, Santop was berated by his manager, 
Frank Warfield, in a public, profanity-filled tirade. The following year, 
Biz Mackey took over as starting catcher, and Santop was released by the 
team the next season. He also managed for some time. The 6 ft 4 in (1.93 m), 
240-pound Santop was noted for his outlandishness and his confidence while 
playing. He was reported to have called home runs while in the batter's 
box. In a 1912 game, he was credited with a tape-measure 500-foot bomb 
– a remarkable feat in the dead-ball era. In another game, Santop was the 
recipient of a knockdown pitch from ex-New York Giant Jeff Tesreau in an 
exhibition game. Both Tyler, Texas natives, Santop yelled to Tesreau, "You 
wouldn't throw at a hometown boy, would you?" The gentle giant could, however, 
become perturbed if provoked. On another occasion, he broke three of Oscar 
Charleston's ribs in an altercation. While fairly accurate, almost none 
of Santop's seasons were fully documented, with the exception of 1924, 
while he was playing for Hilldale and batted .389. In 14 exhibition games 
against white major leaguers, he hit .296. Santop was a match for Josh 
Gibson. Gibson was often called "The Black Babe Ruth", but he wasn't the 
first to bear that title. It was a Santop original. When Ruth and Santop 
faced each other in 1920, Ruth went 0–4, while Santop had 3 hits in 4 at-bats. 
He was rated by Rollo Wilson, described as the Grantland Rice of black 
sports writers, as the first-string catcher on his all-time black baseball 
team. Santop became a broadcaster and eventually a bartender in Philadelphia 
after retiring from the game, before falling ill and eventually dying in 
