Navy, Gray           The Louisville Grays were a 19th-century United States 
baseball team and charter member of the National League, based in Louisville, 
Kentucky. They played two seasons, 1876 and 1877, and compiled a record 
of 65–61. Their home games were at the Louisville Baseball Park. The Grays 
were owned by businessman Walter Newman Haldeman, owner and publisher of 
the Louisville Courier-Journal newspaper. The Grays were undone by Major 
League Baseball's first gambling scandal. The team was in first place in 
August 1877, then suddenly lost seven games and tied one against the Boston 
Red Stockings and Hartford Dark Blues. Boston ended up winning the pennant, 
seven games ahead of the second-place Grays. A Courier-Journal story questioning 
the team's conduct was written by John Haldeman, the owner's son.[1] Team 
president Charles Chase received two anonymous telegrams. One noted that 
gamblers were favoring the less talented Hartford team in an upcoming series. 
The second telegram predicted Louisville would throw the next game versus 
Hartford on August 21. The Grays committed a number of suspicious errors 
and lost that game 7–0. League president William Hulbert investigated and 
ordered players to authorize Western Union to release all telegrams sent 
or received during the 1877 season. All players complied except shortstop 
Bill Craver, the team's captain. The telegrams indicated that pitcher Jim 
Devlin, left fielder George Hall, and utility player Al Nichols intentionally 
lost games in exchange for money. No direct evidence was found implicating 
Craver. All four were banned from baseball for life, Craver for refusing 
to comply with the investigation. Devlin pitched every inning for the 1877 
Grays, leading the league in games and innings pitched. Hall played every 
inning in left field; he was a good batter, the 1876 home run "champion" 
with five. The original St. Louis Brown Stockings had signed Devlin and 
Hall for 1878 and went out of business with the Grays after the investigation.[2] 
