The Lower East Side, sometimes abbreviated as LES, is a neighborhood in 
the southeastern part of the New York City borough of Manhattan, roughly 
located between the Bowery and the East River, and Canal Street and Houston 
Street. Traditionally an immigrant, working-class neighborhood, it began 
rapid gentrification in the mid-2000s, prompting The National Trust for 
Historic Preservation to place the neighborhood on their list of America's 
Most Endangered Places.[2][3] The Lower East Side is roughly bounded by 
the Bowery to the west, East Houston Street to the north, the F.D.R. Drive 
to the east and Canal Street to the south. The western boundary below Grand 
Street veers east off of the Bowery to approximately Essex Street. The 
neighborhood is bordered in the south and west by Chinatown – which extends 
north to roughly Grand Street, in the west by Nolita and in the north by 
the East Village.[4][5] Historically, the "Lower East Side" referred to 
the area alongside the East River from about the Manhattan Bridge and Canal 
Street up to 14th Street, and roughly bounded on the west by Broadway. 
It included areas known today as East Village, Alphabet City, Chinatown, 
Bowery, Little Italy, and NoLIta. Parts of the East Village are still known 
as Loisaida, a Latino pronunciation of "Lower East Side." Avenue C is known 
directly as "Loisaida" and is home to the Loisaida Festival every summer.[6] 
Politically, the neighborhood is located in New York's 8th, 12th, and 14th 
congressional districts, the New York State Assembly's 64th district, the 
New York State Senate's 26th district, and New York City Council's 1st 
and 2nd district. As was all of Manhattan Island, the area now known as 
the Lower East Side was occupied by members of the Lenape tribe, who were 
organized in bands which moved from place to place according to the seasons, 
fishing on the rivers in the summer, and moving inland in the fall and 
winter to gather crops and hunt for food. Their main trail took approximately 
the route of Broadway. One encampment in the Lower East Side area, near 
Corlears Hook was called Rechtauck or Naghtogack.[7] The population of 
the Dutch colony of New Amsterdam was located primarily below the current 
Fulton Street, while north of it were a number of small plantations and 
large farms called bouwerij (bowery) at the time (equivalent to "boerderij" 
in present-day Dutch). Around these farms were a number of enclaves of 
free or "half-free" Africans, which served as a buffer between the Dutch 
and the Native Americans. One of the largest of these was located along 
the modern Bowery between Prince Street and Astor Place.[8] These black 
farmers were some of the earliest settlers of the area.[9] Gradually, during 
the 17th century, there was an overall consolidation of the boweries and 
farms into larger parcels, and much of the Lower East side was then part 
of the Delancy farm.[9] James Delancey's pre-Revolutionary farm east of 
post road leading from the city (Bowery) survives in the names Delancey 
Street and Orchard Street. On the modern map of Manhattan, the Delancey 
farm[10] is represented in the grid of streets from Division Street north 
to Houston Street.[11] In response to the pressures of a growing city, 
Delancey began to survey streets in the southern part of the "West Farm"[12] 
in the 1760s. A spacious projected Delancey Square—intended to cover the 
area within today's Eldridge, Essex, Hester and Broome Streets—was eliminated 
when the loyalist Delancey family's property was confiscated after the 
American Revolution. The city Commissioners of Forfeiture eliminated the 
aristocratic planned square for a grid, effacing Delancey's vision of a 
New York laid out like the West End of London, and established the resolutely 
democratic nature of the neighborhood forever. The point of land on the 
East River now called Corlears Hook was also called Corlaers Hook under 
Dutch and British rule, and briefly Crown Point during British occupation 
in the Revolution. It was named after the schoolmaster Jacobus van Corlaer, 
who settled on this "plantation" that in 1638 was called by a Europeanized 
version of its Lenape name, Nechtans[13] or Nechtanc.[14] Corlaer sold 
the plantation to Wilhelmus Hendrickse Beekman (1623–1707), founder of 
the Beekman family of New York; his son Gerardus Beekman was christened 
at the plantation, on August 17, 1653. The projection into the East River 
that retained Corlaer's name was an important landmark for navigators for 
300 years. On older maps and documents it is usually spelled Corlaers Hook, 
but since the early 19th century the spelling has been anglicized to Corlears. 
The rough unplanned settlement that developed at Corlaer's Hook under the 
British occupation of New York during the Revolution was separated from 
the densely populated city by rough hills of glacial till: "this region 
lay beyond the city proper, from which it was separated by high, uncultivated, 
and rough hills", observers recalled in 1843.[15] As early as 1816, Corlears 
Hook was notorious for streetwalkers, "a resort for the lewd and abandoned 
of both sexes", and in 1821 its "streets abounding every night with preconcerted 
groups of thieves and prostitutes" were noted by the "Christian Herald".[16] 
In the course of the 19th century they came to be called hookers.[17] In 
the summer of cholera in New York, 1832, a two-storey wooden workshop was 
commandeered to serve as a makeshift cholera hospital; between July 18 
and September 15 when the hospital was closed, as the cholera wound down, 
281 patients were admitted, both black and white, of whom 93 died.[18] 
In 1833, Corlear's Hook was the location of some of the first tenements 
built in New York City.[9] The original location of Corlears Hook is now 
obscured by shoreline landfill.[19] It was near the east end of the present 
pedestrian bridge over the FDR Drive near Cherry Street. The name is preserved 
in Corlears Hook Park at the intersection of Jackson and Cherry Streets 
along the East River Drive.[20] The bulk of immigrants who came to New 
York City in the late 19th and early 20th centuries came to the Lower East 
Side, moving into crowded tenements there.[21] By the 1840s, large numbers 
of German immigrants settled in the area, and a large part of it became 
known as "Little Germany" or "Kleindeutschland".[9][22] This was followed 
by groups of Italians and Eastern European Jews, as well as Greeks, Hungarians, 
Poles, Romanians, Russians, Slovaks and Ukrainians, each of whom settled 
in relatively homogeneous enclaves. By 1920, the Jewish neighborhood was 
one of the largest of these ethnic groupings, with 400,000 people, pushcart 
vendors prominent on Orchard and Grand Streets, and numerous Yiddish theatres 
along Second Avenue between Houston and 14th Streets.[9] Living conditions 
in these "slum" areas were far from ideal, although some improvement came 
from a change in the zoning laws which required "new law" tenements to 
be built with air shafts between them, so that fresh air and some light 
could reach each apartment. Still, reform movements, such as the one started 
by Jacob A. Riis' book How the Other Half Lives continued to attempt to 
alleviate the problems of the area through settlement houses, such as the 
Henry Street Settlement, and other welfare and service agencies. The city 
itself moved to address the problem when it built First Houses on the south 
side of East 3rd Street between First Avenue and Avenue A, and on the west 
side of Avenue A between East 2nd and East 3rd Streets in 1935-36, the 
first such public housing project in the United States.[9] By the turn 
of the twentieth century, the neighborhood had become closely associated 
with radical politics, such as anarchism, socialism and communism, and 
was also known as a place where many popular performers had grown up, such 
as the Marx Brothers, Eddie Cantor, Al Jolson, George and Ira Gershwin, 
Jimmy Durante, and Irving Berlin. Later, more radical artists such as the 
Beat poets and writers were drawn to the neighborhood – especially the 
parts which later became the East Village – by the inexpensive housing 
and cheap food.[9] The German population decreased in the early twentieth 
century as a result of the General Slocum disaster and due to anti-German 
sentiment prompted by World War I. After World War II, the Lower East Side 
became New York City's first racially integrated neighborhood with the 
influx of African Americans and Puerto Ricans. Areas where Spanish speaking 
was predominant began to be called Loisaida.[9] By the 1960s, the influence 
of the Jewish and eastern European groups declined as many of these residents 
had left the area, while other ethnic groups had coalesced into separate 
neighborhood, such as Little Italy. The Lower East Side then experienced 
a period of "persistent poverty, crime, drugs, and abandoned housing".[9] 
The East Village was once considered the Lower East Side's northwest corner. 
However, in the 1960s, the demographics of the area above Houston Street 
began to change, as hipsters, musicians, and artists moved in. Newcomers 
and real estate brokers popularized the East Village name, and the term 
was adopted by the popular media by the mid-1960s. As the East Village 
developed a culture separate from the rest of the Lower East Side, the 
two areas came to be seen as two separate neighborhoods rather than the 
former being part of the latter.[23][24] By the 1980s, the Lower East Side 
had begun to stabilize after its period of decline, and once again began 
to attract students, artists and adventurous member of the middle-class, 
as well as immigrants from countries such as Bangladesh, China, the Dominican 
Republic, India, Japan, Korea, the Philippines and Poland.[9] In the early 
2000s, the gentrification of the East Village spread to the Lower East 
Side proper, making it one of the trendiest neighborhoods in Manhattan. 
Orchard Street, despite its "Bargain District" moniker, is now lined with 
upscale boutiques. Similarly, trendy restaurants, including Clinton St. 
Baking Company & Restaurant, wd~50, Cube 63, and Falai are found on a stretch 
of tree-lined Clinton Street that New York Magazine described as the "hippest 
restaurant row" in the Lower East Side.[25][26] In November 2007, the Blue 
Condominium, a 32-unit, 16 story luxury condominium tower was completed 
at 105 Norfolk Street just north of Delancey Street, the pixellated, faceted 
blue design of which starkly contrasts with the surrounding neighborhood. 
Following the construction of the Hotel on Rivington one block away, several 
luxury condominiums around Houston, and the New Museum on Bowery, this 
new wave of construction is another sign that the gentrification cycle 
is entering a high-luxury phase similar to in SoHo and Nolita in the previous 
decade. More recently, the gentrification that was previously confined 
to north of Delancey Street continued south. Several restaurants, bars, 
and galleries opened below Delancey Street after 2005, especially around 
the intersection of Broome and Orchard Streets. The neighborhood's second 
boutique hotel, Blue Moon Hotel, opened on Orchard Street just south of 
Delancey Street in early 2006. However, unlike The Hotel on Rivington, 
the Blue Moon used an existing tenement building, and its exterior is almost 
identical to neighboring buildings. In September 2013, it was announced 
that the Essex Crossing redevelopment project was to be built in the area, 
centered around the intersection of Essex and Delancey Streets, but mostly 
utilizing land south of Delancey Street.[27] Based on data from the 2010 
United States Census, the population of Lower East Side was 72,957, an 
increase of 699 (1.0%) from the 72,258 counted in 2000. Covering an area 
of 535.91 acres (216.88 ha), the neighborhood had a population density 
of 136.1 inhabitants per acre (87,100/sq mi; 33,600/km2).[28] The racial 
makeup of the neighborhood was 22.6% (16,453) White, 10.9% (7,931) African 
American, 0.2% (142) Native American, 24.9% (18,166) Asian, 0.0% (13) Pacific 
Islander, 0.3% (191) from other races, and 1.6% (1,191) from two or more 
races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 39.6% (28,870) of the population.[29] 
One of the oldest neighborhoods of the city, the Lower East Side has long 
been a lower-class worker neighborhood and often a poor and ethnically 
diverse section of New York. As well as Irish, Italians, Poles, Ukrainians, 
and other ethnic groups, it once had a sizeable German population and was 
known as Little Germany (Kleindeutschland). Today it is a predominantly 
Puerto Rican and Dominican community, and in the process of gentrification 
(as documented by the portraits of its residents in the Clinton+Rivington 
chapter of The Corners Project.)[30] Since the immigration waves from eastern 
Europe in the late 19th and early 20th century, the Lower East Side became 
known as having been a center of Jewish immigrant culture. In her 2000 
book Lower East Side Memories: A Jewish Place in America, Hasia Diner explains 
that the Lower East Side is especially remembered as a place of Jewish 
beginnings for Ashkenazi American Jewish culture.[31] Vestiges of the area's 
Jewish heritage exist in shops on Hester and Essex Streets, and on Grand 
Street near Allen Street. An Orthodox Jewish community is based in the 
area, operating yeshiva day schools and a mikvah. A few Judaica shops can 
be found along Essex Street and a few Jewish scribes and variety stores. 
Some kosher delis and bakeries, as well as a few "kosher style" delis, 
including the famous Katz's Deli, are located in the neighborhood. Second 
Avenue in the Lower East Side was home to many Yiddish theatre productions 
in the Yiddish Theater District during the early part of the 20th century, 
and Second Avenue came to be known as "Yiddish Broadway," though most of 
the theaters are gone. Songwriter Irving Berlin, actor John Garfield, and 
singer Eddie Cantor grew up here. Since the mid-20th century, the area 
has been settled primarily by immigrants, primarily from Latin America, 
especially Central America and Puerto Rico. They have established their 
own groceries and shops, marketing goods from their culture and cuisine. 
Bodegas have replaced Jewish shops. They are mostly Roman Catholic. In 
what is now the East Village, the earlier populations of Poles and Ukrainians 
have moved on and been largely supplanted by newer immigrants. The immigration 
of numerous Japanese people over the last fifteen years or so has led to 
the proliferation of Japanese restaurants and specialty food markets. There 
is also a notable population of Bangladeshis and other immigrants from 
Muslim countries, many of whom are congregants of the small Madina Masjid 
(Mosque), located on First Avenue and 11th Street. The neighborhood still 
has many historic synagogues, such as the Bialystoker Synagogue,[32] Beth 
Hamedrash Hagadol, the Eldridge Street Synagogue,[33] Kehila Kedosha Janina 
(the only Greek synagogue in the Western Hemisphere),[34] the Angel Orensanz 
Center (the fourth oldest synagogue building in the United States), and 
various smaller synagogues along East Broadway. Another landmark, the First 
Roumanian-American congregation (the Rivington Street synagogue) partially 
collapsed in 2006, and was subsequently demolished. In addition, there 
is a major Hare Krishna temple and several Buddhist houses of worship. 
Chinese residents have also been moving into Lower East Side, and since 
the late 20th century, they have comprised a large immigrant group in the 
area. The part of the neighborhood south of Delancey Street and west of 
Allen Street has, in large measure, become part of Chinatown. Grand Street 
is one of the major business and shopping streets of Chinatown. Also contained 
within the neighborhood are strips of lighting and restaurant supply shops 
on the Bowery. While the Lower East Side has been a place of successive 
immigrant populations, many American Jews relate to the neighborhood in 
a strong manner, much as Chinatown in San Francisco holds a special place 
in the imagination of Chinese Americans, and Astoria in the hearts of Greek 
Americans. It was a center for the ancestors of many people in the metropolitan 
area, and it was written about and portrayed in fiction and films. In the 
late twentieth century, Jewish communities have worked to preserve a number 
of buildings associated with the Jewish immigrant community.[35][36][37] 
Landmarks include: Synagogues include: The neighborhood has become home 
to numerous contemporary art galleries. One of the very first was ABC No 
Rio.[38] Begun by a group of Colab no wave artists (some living on Ludlow 
Street), ABC No Rio opened an outsider gallery space that invited community 
participation and encouraged the widespread production of art. Taking an 
activist approach to art that grew out of The Real Estate Show (the take 
over of an abandoned building by artists to open an outsider gallery only 
to have it chained closed by the police) ABC No Rio kept its sense of activism, 
community, and outsiderness. The product of this open, expansive approach 
to art was a space for creating new works that did not have links to the 
art market place and that were able to explore new artistic possibilities. 
Other outsider galleries sprung up throughout the Lower East Side and East 
Village—some 200 at the height of the scene in the 1980s, including the 
124 Ridge Street Gallery among others. In December 2007, the New Museum 
relocated to a brand-new, critically acclaimed building on Bowery at Prince. 
A growing number of galleries are opening in the Bowery neighborhood to 
be in close proximity to the museum. The Museum of Reclaimed Urban Space, 
which opened in 2012, exhibits photography featuring the neighborhood in 
addition to chronicling its history of activism. The neighborhood is also 
home to several graffiti artists, such as Chico. As the neighborhood gentrified 
and has become safer at night, it has become a popular late night destination. 
Orchard, Ludlow and Essex between Rivington Street and Stanton Street have 
become especially packed at night, and the resulting noise is a cause of 
tension between bar owners and longtime residents.[39][40] However, as 
gentrification continues, many established landmarks and venues have been 
lost.[41] The Lower East Side is also home to many live music venues. Punk 
bands played at C-Squat[citation needed] and alternative rock bands play 
at Bowery Ballroom on Delancey Street and Mercury Lounge on East Houston 
Street. Punk bands play at Otto's Shrunken Head and R-Bar. Punk and alternative 
bands play at Bowery Electric just north of the old CBGB's location,[42] 
while lesser-known bands played at Tonic (which closed on April 13, 2007) 
and Rothko (now closed) on Suffolk Street.[citation needed] There are also 
bars that offer performance space, such as Pianos, the Living Room, and 
Cake Shop on Ludlow Street and Arlene's Grocery on Stanton Street. The 
Lower East side is the location of the Slipper Room a burlesque, variety 
and vaudeville theatre on Orchard and Stanton. Lady Gaga,[8] Leonard Cohen[9] 
and U2,[10] have all appeared there, while popular downtown performers 
Dirty Martini, Murray Hill and Matt Fraser often appear. Variety shows 
are regularly hosted by comedians James Habacker, Bradford Scobie, Matthew 
Holtzclaw and Matt Roper under the guise of various characters. The Lower 
East Side is the home to many private parks, such as La Plaza Cultural.[43] 
The Sara D. Roosevelt Park and Seward Park are among the public parks in 
the area. The Lower East Side Preparatory High School is a second-chance 
school that enables students, aged 17–21, to obtain their high school diplomas. 
It is a bilingual Chinese-English school with a high proportion of Asian 
students. The Seward Park Campus comprises five schools with an average 
graduation rate of about 80%. The original school in the building was opened 
1929 and closed 2006.[44] There are multiple New York City Subway stations 
in the neighborhood, including Grand Street (B D), Bowery (J Z), Second 
Avenue (F), Delancey Street – Essex Street (F J M Z), and East Broadway 
(F).[45] New York City Bus routes include M9, M14A, M14D, M15, M15 SBS, 
M21, M22, M103, B39.[46] The Williamsburg Bridge and Manhattan Bridge connect 
the Lower East Side to Brooklyn. The FDR Drive is on the neighborhood's 
south and east ends.[47] There are multiple bike lanes in the area. Bike 
lanes are present on Allen, Chrystie, Clinton, Delancey, Grand, Houston, 
Montgomery, Madison, Rivington, Stanton, and Suffolk Streets; Bowery, East 
Broadway, and FDR Drive; the Williamsburg and Manhattan bridges; and the 
East River Greenway.[48] The Lower East Side is expected to be served by 
the Citywide Ferry Service[49] starting in 2018.[50][51] Children's literature 
Novels Songs Plays Films Television Video games Music videos Notes Bibliography 
