Luscious "Luke" Easter (August 4, 1915 – March 29, 1979) was a professional 
baseball player in Major League Baseball and the Negro leagues. He batted 
left-handed, threw right-handed, was 6 ft 4 in (1.93 m), and weighed 240 lb. 
The birth year listed here is drawn from census data. Easter himself listed 
multiple birth years ranging from 1911 to 1921 on different occasions, 
so some ambiguity as to the correct year exists. Luke Easter was born in 
Jonestown, Mississippi to parents James and Maude Easter. His father was 
a graduate of the Tuskegee Institute.[1] His mother Maude died in 1922 
and the family moved to St. Louis, Missouri where his father worked in 
a glass factory. Prior to that time, the Easters had been farmers in the 
Mississippi Delta. Luke Easter attended the same high school as fellow 
Negro league star Quincy Trouppe before dropping out in the ninth grade.[1] 
For the next few years Easter worked a variety of jobs such as shoeshiner, 
hat making, and for a dry cleaners. Although Easter was good enough to 
be a professional player, there was no Negro league franchise in St. Louis. 
So, in 1937 Easter joined the top team in the area, a semipro outfit called 
the St. Louis Titanium Giants. The team was made up of African-Americans 
employed by the National Lead Company.[1] Players would work their factory 
job during the week, often with time off to practice, then play baseball 
for the company on weekends. Easter earned twenty dollars ($20) per week 
plus another ten to twenty on the weekends for baseball games.[1] Luke 
Easter was a very large man for his, or any other, time standing 6 feet 
4 inches (1.93 m) in height and weighing around 240 pounds (110 kg).[2] 
A left-handed hitting first baseman, he was known for towering home runs. 
During his five years with the Giants they fielded a very competitive team. 
Also featuring Sam Jethroe, they went 6–0 in exhibitions against teams 
from the Negro American League in 1940. With World War II raging and America 
soon to enter the fray, Luke Easter planned to enlist in the U.S. Army 
in 1941. However, while returning from a trip to Memphis, Tennessee with 
Sam Jethroe, they were involved in an auto accident that left Easter with 
a fractured leg.[1] Luscious "Luke" Easter, serial number 37 368 805 was 
finally inducted into the Army of the United States at Jefferson Barracks 
in St. Louis on June 22, 1942. Assigned to the Quartermaster Corps after 
basic training he was stationed at Fort Leonard Wood in Missouri, about 
one hundred miles southwest of St. Louis. Easter was separated from the 
Army at Fort Leonard Wood on July 3, 1943[3] and thereafter worked in the 
defense industry. Following the war's end in 1945 Luke Easter had try-outs 
with two Negro National League teams, the Kansas City Monarchs and the 
Chicago American Giants. Both teams felt he was too big and awkward to 
be a good ballplayer despite his previous success with the Titanium Giants.[1] 
Manager "Candy Jim" Taylor of the American Giants elected not to sign Easter, 
but referred him to promoter Abe Saperstein—famous as the founder of the 
Harlem Globetrotters. At that time Saperstein was founding a new touring 
baseball team, the Cincinnati Crescents.[2] Saperstein signed Easter, and 
after a successful 1946 season, sold him to the Homestead Grays. Easter 
was a solid contributor to the Grays in 1947, and excelled in 1948. That 
year, he batted .363, tied for the league lead in home runs, and led the 
league in runs batted in. He led the Grays to a victory over the Birmingham 
Black Barons in that year's Negro League World Series, the last ever played. 
His success attracted the attention of Bill Veeck, owner of the Cleveland 
Indians, who purchased his contract from the Grays. A knee injury in spring 
training in 1949 cost Easter a spot on the major league roster at the start 
of the season. He started the year in the Pacific Coast League; despite 
a mid-season operation on the knee, continued to star. He again batted 
.363, along with 25 home runs and 80 RBI. This performance impressed the 
Indians so much that they called Easter up for a brief appearance at the 
end of the season, and early in 1950 traded All-Star Mickey Vernon to open 
up first base for him. As a 34-year-old rookie, Easter continued his power 
hitting, ranking among the league leaders in home runs and RBI, and led 
the league in times hit by pitch. He continued to produce in 1951 and 1952, 
finishing 13th in Most Valuable Player voting in the latter year, but continuing 
knee and ankle problems, as well as advancing age, brought his major league 
career to an end. He played in only 68 ML games in 1953, spending part 
of the year at AAA, and finished his major league career with six games 
in 1954. Easter continued to play professionally at AAA, even though the 
leg injuries had reduced his running speed to a limp. He played regularly 
for the Ottawa Athletics, Charleston Senators, Buffalo Bisons and Rochester 
Red Wings, and won the International League's MVP award with the Bisons 
in 1957. He ultimately retired as a player in 1963, at the age of 48, and 
worked for several years thereafter as a coach. His number (36) was retired 
by the Rochester Red Wings and number (25) by the Buffalo Bisons. He became 
a 2008 inductee in the International League Hall of Fame. As a player, 
Easter was best known for his powerful home runs, colloquially known as 
"Easter Eggs".[4] While with the Grays in 1948, he became the first player 
to hit a home run into the center field bleachers at New York's Polo Grounds 
during game action, a section that was 475 feet from home plate.[5] During 
his rookie season, he also hit the longest home run in the history of Cleveland's 
Municipal Stadium, a 477-foot blast over the auxiliary scoreboard in right 
field; the only other player to match that feat was Mickey Mantle, who 
did it in 1960. Finally, during his twilight days with the Bisons, he became 
the first player to hit a home run over the center field scoreboard at 
Buffalo's home park, Offermann Stadium, doing so twice in a month in 1957. 
When told by a fan one time that the fan had seen Easter's longest home 
run in person, Easter is reported to have replied, "If it came down, it 
wasn't my longest." While playing with the Red Wings, Easter also began 
to serve as a coach, and after his playing days were over he continued 
in this role. Future major leaguers Boog Powell, Curt Blefary, and Canadian-born 
Pete Ward were among the players who credited Easter as a positive influence 
on their careers. After his days as a coach, Easter returned to the Cleveland 
area and went to work for the Aircraft Workers Alliance in 1964, eventually 
becoming the chief union steward for at TRW in the east side suburb of 
Euclid, Ohio. On March 29, 1979 he was shot and killed by two thugs outside 
a bank at East 260th Street and Euclid Avenue while transporting over $35,000 
from payroll checks.[4] Police reports indicated that Easter was approached 
by two robbers armed with shotguns and after refusing to turn over the 
funds, he was shot twice at close range.[4] In 1980, Woodland Hills Park, 
in Cleveland's Mount Pleasant neighborhood, was renamed Luke Easter Park 
in memoriam.[6] Easter was generally well liked by teammates during his 
career, and most printed recollections by them refer to him as a good-natured 
practical joker. He owned and operated a sausage company while in Buffalo, 
and gave five pounds of sausage to every teammate who hit a home run. He 
was inducted into the Greater Buffalo Sports Hall of Fame in 1997, with 
that body citing his "grace and dignity on and off the field" and his "legacy 
as a friend to the community, a generous soul with plenty of time for any 
cause."[7] He had already become a charter member of the Buffalo Baseball 
Hall of Fame in 1985,[8] and of the Rochester Red Wings Hall of Fame in 
1989.[9] In "The New Bill James Historical Baseball Abstract", baseball 
writer and statistician Bill James rated Easter as the second-best first 
baseman in the history of the Negro leagues, behind only Buck Leonard. 
He described Easter as "an amiable, fun-loving man who gambled, wasn't 
100% honest, and had a temper", with "shoulders that crossed three lanes 
of traffic", but also claimed that "if you could clone him and bring him 
back, you'd have the greatest power hitter in baseball today, if not ever." 
