Matthew MacKenzie "Mack" Robinson (July 18, 1914 – March 12, 2000) was 
an American athlete who won a silver medal in the 1936 Olympics. He was 
the older brother of Baseball Hall of Fame member Jackie Robinson.[1] Mack 
was born in Cairo, Georgia, in 1914. He and his siblings were left fatherless 
at an early age, leaving their mother, Mallie Robinson, as the sole support 
of the children. She performed in a variety of manual labour tasks, and 
moved with her children to Pasadena, California, while the children were 
still young. Mack remained in town for school, and set national junior 
college records in the 100 meter, 200 meter, and long jump at Pasadena 
Junior College.[2] He placed second in the 200 meters at the United States 
Olympic Trials in 1936, earning himself a place on the Olympic team.[3]:80 
He went on to win the silver medal at the Summer Olympics in Berlin, finishing 
0.4 seconds behind Jesse Owens. Mack Robinson attended the University of 
Oregon, graduating in 1941. At the University of Oregon he won numerous 
titles in NCAA, AAU and Pacific Coast Conference track meets. He has been 
honored as being one of the most distinguished graduates of the University 
of Oregon and is a member of the University of Oregon Hall of Fame and 
the Oregon Sports Hall of Fame For a time in the early 1970s, Mack was 
a park director of Lemon Grove Park, a park in the East Hollywood part 
of the City of Los Angeles. Later in life, he was known for leading the 
fight against street crime in his home town of Pasadena. The Pasadena Robinson 
Memorial, dedicated to both Matthew and Jackie, was dedicated in 1997. 
The memorial statue of Jackie Robinson by sculptor Richard H. Ellis at 
UCLA Bruins baseball team's home Jackie Robinson Stadium,[4] was installed 
by the efforts of Jackie's brother Mack.[5] Several locations are named 
in honor of Matthew Robinson. In addition to the Pasadena Robinson Memorial, 
the stadium of Pasadena City College was dedicated to him in 2000. That 
same year, the United States Postal Service approved naming the new post 
office in Pasadena the Matthew 'Mack' Robinson Post Office Building.[6] 
Robinson died of complications from diabetes, kidney failure, and pneumonia 
in Pasadena, on March 12, 2000 at a hospital in Pasadena, California, at 
the age of 85.[7] He is interred at Mountain View Cemetery and Mausoleum, 
