The Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade is an annual parade presented by the 
U.S.-based department store chain Macy's. The tradition started in 1924,[2] 
tying it for the second-oldest Thanksgiving parade in the United States 
with America's Thanksgiving Parade in Detroit (with both parades being 
four years younger than the 6abc Dunkin' Donuts Thanksgiving Day Parade 
in Philadelphia). The three-hour Macy's event is held in New York City 
starting at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time on Thanksgiving Day, and has 
been televised nationally on NBC since 1952. In the 1920s, many of Macy's 
department store employees were first-generation European immigrants. Proud 
of their new American heritage, they wanted to celebrate the American holiday 
of Thanksgiving with the type of festival their parents had loved in Europe.[3] 
In 1924, the annual Thanksgiving parade started by Louis Bamberger in Newark, 
New Jersey at the Bamberger's store was transferred to New York City by 
Macy's. In New York, the employees marched to Macy's flagship store on 
34th Street dressed in vibrant costumes. There were floats, professional 
bands and live animals borrowed from the Central Park Zoo. At the end of 
that first parade, as has been the case with every parade since, Santa 
Claus was welcomed into Herald Square. At this first parade, however, the 
Jolly Old Elf was enthroned on the Macy's balcony at the 34th Street store 
entrance, where he was then "crowned" "King of the Kiddies." With an audience 
of over 250,000 people, the parade was such a success that Macy's declared 
it would become an annual event. Anthony "Tony" Frederick Sarg loved to 
work with marionettes from an early age. After moving to London to start 
his own marionette business, Sarg moved to New York City to perform with 
his puppets on the street. Macy's heard about Sarg's talents and asked 
him to design a window display of a parade for the store.[4] Sarg's large 
animal-shaped balloons, produced by the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company 
in Akron, Ohio, replaced the live animals in 1927. A popular belief was 
that a balloon version Felix the Cat balloon was the first ever character 
balloon in the parade back in 1937, with Macy's also claiming that too, 
but Felix actually made his first appearance in 1931. At the finale of 
the 1928 parade, the balloons were released into the sky, where they unexpectedly 
burst. The following year, they were redesigned with safety valves to allow 
them to float for a few days.[5] Address labels were sewn into them, so 
that whoever found and mailed back the discarded balloon received a gift 
from Macy's.[5] Through the 1930s, the Parade continued to grow, with crowds 
of over one million people lining the parade route in 1933. The first Mickey 
Mouse balloon entered the parade in 1934. The annual festivities were broadcast 
on local radio stations in New York City from 1932 to 1941,[6] and resumed 
in 1945, running through 1951.[7] The parade was suspended from 1942 to 
1944 as a result of World War II, owing to the need for rubber and helium 
in the war effort.[8][9] The parade resumed in 1945 using the route that 
it followed until 2008. The parade became known nationwide after being 
prominently featured in the 1947 film, Miracle on 34th Street, which included 
footage of the 1946 festivities. The event was first broadcast on network 
television in 1948 (see below). By this point the event, and Macy's sponsorship 
of it, were sufficiently well-known to give rise to the colloquialism "Macy's 
Day Parade". Since 1984, the balloons have been made by Raven Aerostar 
(a division of Sioux Falls, South Dakota-based Raven Industries).[10] Macy's 
also sponsored the smaller Celebrate the Season Parade in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
which is held two days after the main event, from 2006 to 2013. Other American 
cities also have parades held on Thanksgiving, none of which are run by 
Macy's. The nation's oldest Thanksgiving parade (the Gimbels parade, which 
has had many sponsors over the years, and is now known as the 6abc Dunkin' 
Donuts Thanksgiving Day Parade) was first held in Philadelphia in 1920. 
Other cities with parades on the holiday include the McDonald's Thanksgiving 
Parade in Chicago, Illinois and parades in Plymouth, Massachusetts; Seattle, 
Washington; Houston, Texas; Detroit, Michigan; and Fountain Hills, Arizona. 
A parade is also held at the two Disney theme parks, Disneyland Resort 
and Walt Disney World Resort. There is also a second Thanksgiving balloon 
parade within the New York metropolitan area, the UBS balloon parade in 
Stamford, Connecticut, located 30 miles (48 km) away; that parade is held 
the Sunday before Thanksgiving, so as to not compete with the parade in 
New York City and usually does not duplicate any balloon characters. The 
classic "Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade" logo (seen below) was, with one 
exception, last used in 2005. For 2006, a special variant of the logo was 
used. Every year since then, a new logo has been used for each parade. 
The logos however are seen rarely, if at all, on television as NBC has 
used its own logo with the word "Macy's" in a script typeface and "Thanksgiving 
Day Parade" in a bold font. The logos are assumed to be for use by Macy's 
only, such as on the Grandstand tickets and the ID badges worn by parade 
staff. The Jackets worn by parade staff still bear the original classic 
parade logo, this being the only place where that logo can be found. New 
safety measures were incorporated in 2006 to prevent accidents and balloon-related 
injuries. One measure taken was the installation of wind measurement devices 
to alert parade organizers to any unsafe conditions that could cause the 
balloons to behave erratically. In addition, parade officials implemented 
a measure to keep the balloons closer to the ground during windy conditions. 
If wind speeds are forecast to be higher than 34 miles per hour (55 km/h), 
all balloons are removed from the parade. In 2007, the journal Puppetry 
International published a first person account of being a balloon handler.[11] 
Since 2013, the balloons in the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade have come 
in two varieties. The first (and older of the two) is the novelty balloon 
class, consisting of smaller balloons; the novelty balloons range widely 
in size and are handled by between one and thirty people (the smallest 
novelty balloons are shaped like human heads and fit on the actual heads 
of the handlers). The second and more widely known is the full-size balloon 
class, primarily consisting of licensed pop-culture characters; each of 
these is handled by exactly 90 people. From 2005 to 2012, a third balloon 
class, the "Blue Sky Gallery," transformed the works of contemporary artists 
into full-size balloons. The following is a list of balloons that have, 
over the years, been featured in the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, sorted 
by their first year in the lineup. Underlined items indicate entries in 
the Blue Sky Gallery. A falloon, (F), a portmanteau of "float" and "balloon", 
is a float-based balloon. A balloonicle, (B), a portmanteau of "balloon" 
and "vehicle", is a self-powered balloon vehicle. In addition to the well-known 
balloons and floats, the Parade also features live music and other performances. 
College and high school marching bands from across the country participate 
in the parade, and the television broadcasts feature performances by established 
and up-and-coming singers and bands. The Rockettes of Radio City Music 
Hall are a classic performance as well (having performed annually since 
1957 as the last of the pre-parade acts to perform), as are cheerleaders 
and dancers chosen by the National Cheerleaders Association from various 
high schools across the country. The parade concludes with the arrival 
of Santa Claus to ring in the Christmas and holiday season. On the NBC 
telecast from in front of the flagship Macy's store on Broadway and 34th 
Street, the marching bands perform live music. Most "live" performances 
by musicals and individual artists lip sync to the studio, soundtrack or 
cast recordings of their songs,[15] due to the technical difficulties of 
attempting to sing into a wireless microphone while in a moving vehicle 
(performers typically perform on the floats themselves); the NBC-flagged 
microphones used by performers on floats are almost always non-functioning 
props. Live performances with no use of recorded vocals, are very rare 
in the parade. Every year, cast members from a number of Broadway shows 
(usually shows that debuted that year) perform either in the parade, or 
immediately preceding the parade in front of Macy's (since NBC broadcasts 
the parade's start, the performances are shown during the wait for the 
parade itself). The 2007 parade was notable as it took place during a strike 
by the I.A.T.S.E. (a stagehands' union), and as such, Legally Blonde, the 
one performing musical affected by the strike, performed in show logo shirts, 
with makeshift props and no sets. The other three shows that year performed 
in theaters that were not affected by the strike. For the 10th anniversary 
of the September 11th attacks in 2011, the Macy's Thanksgiving Parade invited 
family members from Tuesday's Children, a family service organization that 
has made a long-term commitment to those directly impacted by the attacks 
and terrorism around the world, to cut the ribbon at the start of the parade 
with NBC's Al Roker and led the parade with Amy Kule, the Parade's executive 
producer. More than 44 million people watch the parade on television on 
an annual basis. It was first televised locally in New York City in 1939 
as an experimental broadcast.[16] No television stations broadcast the 
parade in 1940 or 1941, but when the parade returned in 1945 after the 
wartime suspension, local broadcasts also resumed.[17][18] The parade began 
its network television appearances on CBS in 1948, the year that regular 
television network programming began.[19][20] NBC has been the official 
broadcaster of the event since 1952, though CBS (which has a studio in 
Times Square) also carries unauthorized coverage under the title The Thanksgiving 
Day Parade on CBS.[21] Since the parade takes place in public, the parade 
committee can endorse an official broadcaster, but they cannot award exclusive 
rights as other events (such as sporting events, which take place inside 
restricted-access stadiums) have the authority to do. The rerouting of 
the parade that was implemented for the 2012 event (see below) moved the 
parade out of the view of CBS's cameras and thus made it significantly 
more difficult for the network to cover the parade; CBS nevertheless continues 
to cover the parade to the same extent as in previous years. At first, 
the telecasts were only an hour long. In 1961, the telecast expanded to 
two hours,[22] and was then reduced to 90 minutes in 1962, before reverting 
to a two-hour telecast in 1965; all three hours of the parade were televised 
by 1969.[23] The event began to be broadcast in color in 1960.[24] NBC 
airs the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade live in the Eastern Time Zone, 
but tape delays the telecast elsewhere in the continental U.S. and territories 
from the Central Time Zone westward to allow the program to air in the 
same 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. timeslot across its owned-and-operated and 
affiliated stations (since the morning program's initial expansion to three 
hours in 2000, the parade pre-empts the final two hours of Today as a result).[25] 
NBC began airing a same-day afternoon rebroadcast of the parade in 2009 
(replacing the annual broadcast of Miracle on 34th Street, which NBC had 
lost the broadcast television rights to that year). CBS's unauthorized 
coverage airs live in most time zones, allowing viewers to see the parade 
as many as two hours before the official NBC coverage airs in their area; 
CBS still broadcasts the parade on delay on the West Coast, immediately 
after the Detroit Lions Thanksgiving game in years when CBS carries it, 
or at 9 a.m. local time in years they carry the Dallas Cowboys Thanksgiving 
game.[21] From 1962 to 1971, NBC's coverage was hosted by Lorne Greene 
(who was then appearing on NBC's Bonanza) and Betty White. Ed McMahon co-hosted 
in 1971, then hosted until 1982. Since 1982, NBC has appointed at least 
one of the hosts of Today to emcee the television broadcast, starting with 
Bryant Gumbel, who hosted the parade until 1987. From 1987 to 1997, NBC's 
coverage was hosted by longtime Today weather anchor Willard Scott. During 
that period, their co-hosts included Mary Hart, Sandy Duncan, and Today 
colleagues Deborah Norville and Katie Couric. In recent years, NBC's coverage 
has been hosted by Today anchors Matt Lauer, Meredith Vieira (from 2006 
to 2010), Ann Curry (for the 2011 telecast only) and Savannah Guthrie (since 
2012) as well as Today weather anchor Al Roker. From the early 1980s until 
circa 1994, the television broadcast was produced and directed by Dick 
Schneider; since circa 1994, it has been executive produced by Brad Lachman 
(who has otherwise been known for producing reality television series), 
produced by Bill Bracken and directed by veteran sitcom director Gary Halvorson. 
Announcements during the telecast were first provided by Don Pardo, followed 
by Lynda Lopez, the telecast's only female announcer, who served during 
the decade wherein Willard Scott was the parade's host; from circa 1994 
to 2010, announcer duties were helmed by Joel Godard (who also served as 
the announcer for Late Night with Conan O'Brien for much of that period), 
and then were assumed by Today announcer Les Marshak with the 2011 telecast. 
The musical director for the television coverage is veteran composer/arranger 
Milton DeLugg. CBS's coverage was originally part of the "All-American 
Thanksgiving Day Parade," a broadcast that included footage from multiple 
parades across North America, including parades at Detroit, Philadelphia 
and Disneyland (the latter was later replaced by Opryland USA in 1997 and 
after that Miami Beach), and taped footage of the Toronto Santa Claus Parade 
(taped usually the second or third weekend of November) and the Aloha Floral 
Parade in Honolulu (which usually took place in September). Beginning in 
2004, however, CBS has focused exclusively on the Macy's parade, but avoids 
using the Macy's name due to the lack of an official license. To compensate 
for the fact that the Broadway and music performances can only appear on 
NBC, CBS adds their own pre-recorded performances (also including Broadway 
shows, although different from the ones that are part of the official parade 
and recorded off-site) to fill out the special.[26] For the 1997 parade, 
MTV guest reporters, Beavis and Butt-head, with host Kurt Loder, provided 
their usual style of commentary on aspects of the parade, and of their 
take on Thanksgiving in general. The special, titled Beavis and Butt-head 
Do Thanksgiving, included a balloon of Beavis and Butt-head spectating 
from their couch. The balloon was not participating in the parade, but 
stationed on top of a building alongside the parade route. Radio coverage 
is provided by CBS Radio-owned WINS (1010 AM) in New York City. It is one 
of the few times throughout the year in which that station breaks away 
from its all-news radio format. The Parade has always taken place in Manhattan. 
The parade originally started from 145th Street in Harlem and ended at 
Herald Square, making a 6-mile (9.7 km) route. In the 1930s, the balloons 
were inflated in the area of 110th Street and Amsterdam Avenue near St. 
John the Divine Cathedral. The parade proceeded South on Amsterdam Avenue 
to 106th Street and turned east. At Columbus Avenue, the balloons had to 
be lowered to go under the Ninth Avenue El. Past the El tracks, the parade 
proceeded through 106th Street to Central Park West and turned south to 
terminate at Macy's Department Store. A new route was established for the 
2009 parade. From 77th Street and Central Park West, the route went south 
along Central Park to Columbus Circle, then east along Central Park South. 
The parade would then make a right turn at 7th Avenue and go south to Times 
Square. At 42nd Street, the parade turned left and went east, then at 6th 
Avenue turned right again at Bryant Park. Heading south on 6th Avenue, 
the parade turned right at 34th Street (at Herald Square) and proceeded 
west to the terminating point at 7th Avenue where the floats are taken 
down.[27][28] The 2009 route change eliminated Broadway completely, where 
the parade has traveled down for decades. The City of New York said that 
the new route would provide more space for the parade, and more viewing 
space for spectators. Another reason for implementing the route change 
is the city's plan to turn Broadway into a pedestrian-only zone at Times 
Square. Another new route was introduced with the 2012 parade. This change 
is similar to the 2009 route, but eliminated Times Square altogether. It 
is not advised to view the parade from Columbus Circle, as balloon teams 
race through it due to higher winds in this flat area. New York City officials 
preview the parade route and try to eliminate as many potential obstacles 
as possible, including rotating overhead traffic signals out of the way. 
Since 2001, Macy's Studios has partnered with the Universal Orlando Resort 
(owned by NBC parent NBCUniversal) to bring balloons and floats from New 
York City to the theme park in Florida every holiday season. The parade 
is performed daily and includes the iconic Santa Claus float. Performers 
from the Orlando area are cast as various clowns, and the park used to 
invite guests to be "balloon handlers" for the parade.[29] The winds also 
caused trouble for the other balloons. The Barney balloon hit a lamp post 
and was eventually stabbed by the NYPD. The Pink Panther balloon collapsed 
onto the ground and had also been stabbed by the NYPD over crowd concerns.[31] 
The Peter Rabbit balloon leaned too close to a lamppost, and almost popped 
its ear. The Quik Bunny balloon deflated on a lamp post in Times Square 
and collapsed. Some balloons made the route but was damaged upon repair. 
Arthur ended up getting a damaged arm. Garfield's left back paw was damaged 
(with his tail getting damaged in the overnight windy conditions) as well 
as Bumpe's left legs. Cloe the Holiday Clown, Flying Fish and Sonic the 
Hedgehog were damaged during the Overnight winds and could not start the 
parade at all. The last 2 balloons in the parade, Eben Bear and Ms. Petula 
Pig, were removed from the parade after the Cat in the Hat Incident even 
