Coordinates: 40°44′31″N 73°59′17″W﻿ / ﻿40.742054°N 73.987984°W﻿ / 40.742054; 
-73.987984 Madison Square is a public square formed by the intersection 
of Fifth Avenue and Broadway at 23rd Street in the New York City borough 
of Manhattan. The square was named for James Madison, fourth President 
of the United States. The focus of the square is Madison Square Park, a 
6.2-acre (2.5-hectare) public park, which is bounded on the east by Madison 
Avenue (which starts at the park's southeast corner at 23rd Street); on 
the south by 23rd Street; on the north by 26th Street; and on the west 
by Fifth Avenue and Broadway as they cross. The park and the square are 
at the northern (uptown) end of the Flatiron District neighborhood of Manhattan. 
The neighborhood to the north and west of the park is NoMad ("NOrth of 
MADison Square Park") and to the north and east is Rose Hill. Madison Square 
is probably best known around the world for providing the name of Madison 
Square Garden, a sports arena and its successor which were located just 
northeast of the park for 47 years, until 1925. The current Madison Square 
Garden, the fourth such building, is not in the area. Notable buildings 
around Madison Square include the Flatiron Building, the Toy Center, the 
New York Life Building, the New York Merchandise Mart, the Appellate Division 
Courthouse, the Met Life Tower, and One Madison Park, a 50-story condominium 
tower. The area where Madison Square is now had been a swampy hunting ground, 
and first came into use as a public space in 1686. It was a Potter's Field 
in the 1700s.[2] In 1807, "The Parade", a tract of about 240 acres (97.12 
hectares) from 23rd to 34th Streets and Third to Seventh Avenues, was set 
aside for use as an arsenal, a barracks, and a drilling area.[3] There 
was a United States Army arsenal there from 1811 until 1825 when it became 
the New York House of Refuge for the Society for the Protection of Juvenile 
Delinquents, for children under sixteen committed by the courts for indefinite 
periods. In 1839 the building was destroyed by fire.[4][5][6] The size 
of the tract was reduced in 1814 to 90 acres (36.42 hectares), and it received 
its current name.[3] In 1839, a farmhouse located at what is now Fifth 
Avenue and 23rd Street was turned into a roadhouse under the direction 
of William "Corporal" Thompson (1807–1872), who later renamed it "Madison 
Cottage", after the former president. This house was the last stop for 
people travelling northward out of the city, or the first stop for those 
arriving from the north. Though Madison Cottage itself was razed in 1853 
to make room first for Franconi's Roman Hippodrome[1] and then for the 
Fifth Avenue Hotel,[7] Madison Cottage ultimately gave rise to the names 
for the adjacent avenue (Madison Avenue) and park, which are therefore 
only indirectly named after President James Madison. The roots of the New 
York Knickerbocker Base Ball Club, one of the first professional baseball 
teams, are in Madison Square. Amateur players began in 1842 to use a vacant 
sandlot at 27th and Madison for their games and, eventually, Alexander 
Cartwright suggested they draw up rules for the game and start a professional 
club. When they lost their sandlot to development, they moved to Hoboken, 
where they played their first game in 1846.[4][6] On May 10, 1847, the 
6.2-acre (2.5 ha)[8] Madison Square Park, named after President James Madison,[4] 
opened to the public.[3] Within a few years, the tide of residential development, 
which was relentlessly moving uptown, had reached the Madison Square area, 
and through the 1870s, the neighborhood became an aristocratic one of brownstone 
row houses and mansions where the elite of the city lived; Theodore Roosevelt, 
Edith Wharton and Winston Churchill's mother, Jennie Jerome, were all born 
here.[4][3] In 1853, plans had been made to build the Crystal Palace there, 
but strong public opposition and protests caused the palace to be relocated 
to Bryant Park. The Fifth Avenue Hotel, a luxury hotel built by developer 
Amos Eno, and initially known as "Eno's Folly" because it was so far away 
from the hotel district, stood on the west side of Madison Square from 
1859 to 1908.[9] The first hotel in the city with elevators, which were 
steam powered and known as the "vertical railroad", which had the effect 
of making the upper floors more desirable as they no longer had to be reached 
by climbing stairs.[10] It had fireplaces in every bedroom, private bathrooms, 
and public rooms which saw many elegant events. Notable visitors to the 
hotel included Mark Twain, famed Swedish singer Jenny Lind, U.S. Presidents 
Chester A. Arthur and Ulysses S. Grant and the Prince of Wales. With the 
success of the hotel, which could house 800 guests, other grand hotels 
such as the Hoffman House, the Brunswick and the Victoria, opened in the 
surrounding area, as did entertainment venues such as the Madison Square 
Theatre and Chickering Hall and many private clubs.[5] When the center 
of the expanding city moved north by the turn of the century, and the neighborhood 
had become a commercial district and was no longer fashionable, the hotel 
was closed and demolished. A plaque on the building currently on the site, 
the Toy Center, commemorates the hotel.[4] During the 1863 New York City 
draft riots, 10,000 Federal troops brought in to control the rioters encamped 
in Madison Square and Washington Square, as well as Stuyvesant Square.[6] 
Madison Square was also the site in November 1864 of a political rally, 
complete with torchlight parade and fireworks, in support of the Presidential 
candidacy of Democrat General George B. McClellan, who was running against 
his old boss, Abraham Lincoln. It was larger than the Republican parade 
the night before, which had marched from Madison Square to Union Square 
to rally there.[6] At the western side of Madison Square Park, on an island 
bordered by Broadway, Fifth Avenue and 25th Street, stands an obelisk, 
designed by James G. Batterson[11] which was erected in 1857 over the tomb 
of General William Jenkins Worth, who served in the Seminole Wars and the 
Mexican War,[4] and for whom Fort Worth, Texas was named, as well as Worth 
Street in lower Manhattan.[12] The city's Parks Department designated the 
area immediately around the monument as a parklet called General Worth 
Square.[13] Worth's monument was one of the first to be erected in a city 
park since the statue of George III was removed from Bowling Green in 1776,[14] 
and is the only monument in the city except for Grant's Tomb that doubles 
as a mausoleum. With the commercialization of the neighborhood, elite residents 
moved farther uptown, away from Madison Square, enabling more restaurants, 
theatres and clubs to open up in the neighborhood, creating an entertainment 
district, albeit an upscale one where society balls and banquets were held 
in restaurants such as Delmonico's. Nearby, huge dry-goods emporia such 
as Siegel-Cooper in the Ladies' Mile district brought daytime crowds of 
shoppers.[15] No longer primarily residential, Madison Square was still 
a thriving area. Madison Square Park was re-landscaped in 1870 by William 
Grant and Ignatz Pilat,[11] a former assistant to Frederick Law Olmsted. 
The new design brought in the sculptures that now reside in the park. One 
notable sculpture is the seated bronze portrait of Secretary of State William 
H. Seward, by Randolph Rogers (1876), which sits at the southwest entrance 
to the park. Seward, who is best remembered for purchasing Alaska ("Seward's 
Folly") from Russia, was the first New Yorker to have a monument erected 
in his honor.[16] Other statues in the park depict Roscoe Conkling, who 
served in Congress in both the House and the Senate, and who collapsed 
at that spot in the park while walking home from his office during the 
Blizzard of 1888 and died five weeks later, after refusing to pay a cab 
$50 for the ride;[17][18] Chester Alan Arthur, the 21st President of the 
United States; and David Farragut, who is supposed to have said "Damn the 
torpedoes, full speed ahead" in the Battle of Mobile Bay during the Civil 
War. The Farragut Memorial (1881), which was first erected at Fifth Avenue 
and 26th Street and moved to the Square's northern end in 1935,[19] was 
designed by Augustus Saint-Gaudens (sculpture) and architect Stanford White 
(base).[20] Along the south edge of the park of is the Eternal Light Flagstaff, 
dedicated on Armistice Day 1923 and restored in 2002, which commemorates 
the return of American soldiers and sailors from World War I. Another park 
highlight is the granite Southern Fountain, a modern reproduction of the 
original fountain, which was first located on the site of the Old Post 
Office. It was completed in 1843, before being rededicated in the park 
in 1867.[21] The modern replacement was installed in 1990, and renovated 
in 2015.[22][23] Madison Square continued to be a focus of public activities 
for the city. In the 1870s, developer Amos Eno's Cumberland apartment building, 
which stood on 22nd Street where the Flatiron Building would eventually 
be built, had four-stories of its back wall facing Madison Square, so Eno 
rented it out to advertisers, including the New York Times, who installed 
a sign made up of electric lights. Eno later put a canvas screen on the 
wall, and projected images on it from a magic lantern on top of one of 
his smaller buildings on the lot, presenting both advertisements and interesting 
pictures in alternation. Both the Times and the New York Tribune began 
using the screen for news bulletins, and on election nights crowds of tens 
of thousands of people would gather in Madison Square, waiting for the 
latest results.[24] In 1876 a large celebration was held in Madison Square 
Park to honor the centennial of the signing of the Declaration of Independence. 
Then, from 1876 to 1882, the torch and arm of the Statue of Liberty were 
exhibited in the park in an effort to raise funds for building the pedestal 
of the statue. Madison Square was the site of some of the first electric 
street lighting in the city. In 1879 the city authorized the Brush Electric 
Light Company to build a generating station at 25th Street, powered by 
steam, that provided electricity for a series of arc lights which were 
installed on Broadway between Union Square (at 14th Street) and Madison 
Square. The lights were illuminated on 20 December 1880. A year later, 
160-foot (49 m) "sun towers" with clusters of arc lights were erected in 
Union and Madison Squares.[6] The area around Madison Square continued 
to be commercially fashionable. In 1883, art dealer Thomas Kirby and two 
others established a salon "for the Encouragement and Promotion of American 
art" on the south side of the Square. Their American Art Association auction 
rooms, the first auction house in the US, quickly became the place to go 
in New York to buy and sell jewelry, antiquities, fine art and rare books.[25] 
To celebrate the centennial of George Washington's first inauguration in 
1889, two temporary arches were erected over Fifth Avenue and 23rd and 
26th Streets. Just ten years later, in 1899, the Dewey Arch was built over 
Fifth Avenue and 24th Street at Madison Square for the parade in honor 
of Admiral George Dewey, celebrating his victory in the Battle of Manila 
Bay in the Philippines the year before. The arch was intended to be temporary, 
but remained in place until 1901 when efforts to have the arch rebuilt 
in stone failed, and it was demolished. Fifteen years passed, and in 1918 
Mayor John F. Hylan had a Victory Arch built at about the same location 
to honor the city's war dead. Thomas Hastings designed a triple arch which 
cost $80,000 and was modeled after the Arch of Constantine in Rome. Once 
again, a bid to make the arch permanent failed.[26] The building that became 
the first Madison Square Garden at 26th Street and Madison Avenue was built 
in 1832 as the passenger depot of the New York and Harlem Rail Road,[27] 
and was later used by the New York and New Haven Railroad as well; both 
were owned by Cornelius Vanderbilt.[28] When the depot moved uptown in 
1871 to Grand Central Depot, the building stood vacant until 1873, when 
it was leased to P.T. Barnum[27] who converted it into the open-air "Hippodrome" 
for circus performances. In 1875 it was sub-let to the noted band leader 
Patrick Sarsfield Gilmore, who filled the space with trees, flowers and 
fountains and named it "Gilmore's Concert Garden". Gilmore's band of 100 
musicians played 150 consecutive concerts there, and continued to perform 
in the Garden for two years. After he gave up his sub-let, others presented 
marathon races, temperance and revival meetings, balls, the first Westminster 
Kennel Club Dog Show (1877), as well as boxing "exhibitions" or "illustrated 
lectures", since competitive boxing matches were illegal at the time. It 
was finally renamed "Madison Square Garden" in 1879 by William Kissam Vanderbilt, 
the son of Commodore Vanderbilt, who continued to present sporting events, 
the National Horse Show, and more boxing, including bouts by John L. Sullivan 
that drew huge crowds. Vanderbilt eventually sold what Harper's Weekly 
called his "patched-up grimy, drafty combustible, old shell" to a syndicate 
that included J. P. Morgan, Andrew Carnegie, James Stillman and W. W. Astor.[6][29] 
The building that replaced it was a Beaux-Arts structure designed by the 
noted architect Stanford White. White kept an apartment in the building, 
and was shot dead in the Garden's rooftop restaurant by millionaire Harry 
K. Thaw over an affair White had with Thaw's wife, the well-known actress 
Evelyn Nesbit, who White seduced when she was 16. The resulting sensational 
press coverage of the scandal caused Thaw's trial to be one of the first 
Trials of the Century. Madison Square became known as "Diana's little wooded 
park" after the huge bronze statue of the Roman goddess Diana by Augustus 
Saint-Gaudens that stood atop the 32-story tower of White's arena; at the 
time it was the second-tallest building in the city. The Garden hosted 
the annual French Ball, both the Barnum and the Ringling Brothers circuses, 
orchestral performances, light operas and romantic comedies, and the 1924 
Democratic National Convention, which nominated John W. Davis after 103 
ballots, but it was never a financial success.[6] It was torn down soon 
after, and the venue moved uptown. Today, the arena retains its name, even 
though it is no longer located in the area of Madison Square. The park 
was the site of an unusual public protest in 1901. Oscar Spate, a displaced 
Londoner, convinced the Parks Commissioner, George Clausen, to allow him 
to pay the city $500 a year to put 200 cushioned rocking chairs in Madison 
Square Park, Union Square, and Central Park and charge the public 5 cents 
for their use. Free benches were moved away from shaded areas, and Spate's 
chairs replaced them. When a heat wave hit the city in July, people in 
Madison Park refused to pay the nickel that was now required to sit in 
the shade. The police became involved, and newspapers like The Sun and 
William Randolph Hearst's Evening Journal took up the cause. People began 
going to the park with the intent of sitting and refusing to pay, and a 
riot occurred involving a thousand men and boys, who chased the chairs' 
attendant out of the park and overturned and broke up chairs and benches.[30][31] 
The police were called, but the disturbance nevertheless continued for 
several days. On July 11, Clausen annulled the city's 5-year contract with 
Spate (whose real name was Reginald Seymour), prompting a celebration with 
bands and fireworks in Madison Square Park attended by 10,000 people. Spate 
went to court and got a preliminary injunction against Clausen's breaking 
of the contract, but the judge refused to allow him to force the public 
to pay. The Evening Journal followed by asking for an injunction against 
pay chairs, and when this was granted Spate gave up. He sold the chairs 
to Wanamaker's, where they were advertised as "Historic Chairs".[31] Two 
months later, in September, the Seventy-first Regiment Band played "Nearer, 
My God, to Thee" in the park as recognition of the death by assassination 
of President William McKinley. The hymn had been McKinley's favorite.[32] 
In 1908, the New York Herald installed a giant searchlight among the girders 
of the Metropolitan Life Tower to signal election results. A northward 
beam signaled a win for the Republican candidate, and a southward beam 
for the Democrat. The beam went north, signaling the victory of Republican 
William Howard Taft. America's first community Christmas tree was illuminated 
in Madison Square Park on December 24, 1912, an event which is commemorated 
by the illuminated Star of Hope on a tall pole, installed in 1916 at the 
southern end of the park.[33] Today the Madison Square Park Conservancy 
continues to present an annual tree-lighting ceremony sponsored by local 
businesses. Author Willa Cather described Madison Square around 1915 in 
her novel My Mortal Enemy (1926): Madison Square was then at the parting 
of the ways; had a double personality, half commercial, half social, with 
shops to the south and residences to the north. It seemed to me so neat, 
after the raggedness of our Western cities; so protected by good manners 
and courtesy—like an open-air drawing-room. I could well imagine a winter 
dancing party being given there, or a reception for some distinguished 
European visitor.[34] In 1936, to commemorate the centennial of the opening 
of Madison Avenue, the Fifth Avenue Association donated an oak from Montpelier, 
the Virginia estate of former president James Madison. It is located toward 
the center of the eastern perimeter of the park. The New York City Department 
of Traffic announced a plan in 1964 to build a parking garage underneath 
the park, much like the Boston Common, Union Square in San Francisco and 
MacArthur Park in Los Angeles. The plan was successfully blocked by preservationists, 
who cited concerns about the damage that the excavation would cause to 
the park, particularly the roots of its many trees.[35][36] On October 
17, 1966, a fire at 7 East 23rd Street resulted in one of the deadliest 
building collapse in the history of the New York City Fire Department, 
when 12 FDNY staff—two chiefs, two lieutenants, and eight firefighters—were 
killed. This was the department's greatest loss of life before the September 
11 attacks.[37] A plaque honoring them can be seen on Madison Green, the 
apartment building currently occupying the site. By the middle of the 20th 
century, it was widely recognized that the park needed to be restored and 
renovated.[38] Efforts began in 1979 with a privately funded program to 
clean up and maintain the park, the first time that non-public funding 
was used in New York City for long-term work in the city's parks.[38] Then, 
in November 1986, ground was broken on what was to become the full-scale 
restoration of the park. Phase one of the project, involving the north 
end of the park and Worth Square, was completed in 1988, and included the 
addition of a playground in the northeast corner. Phase two was to have 
begun in November 1987, but never got started, leaving the south end of 
the park unrestored for 11 years.[38] In 1997, the New York City Department 
of Parks and Recreation asked the City Parks Foundation to organize an 
effort to raise funds to complete the revitalization. Their "Campaign for 
the New Madison Square Park" lead, in fits and starts between 1998 and 
2001, to the renovation and restoration of the south end of the park, the 
addition of a dog run and the return of 1,200 square feet (110 m2) to the 
southeast corner.[38] An outgrowth of the fund-raising campaign was the 
formation of Madison Square Park Conservancy,[39] a public-private partnership 
whose mission is to keep it "a bright, beautiful and active public park."[40] 
One amenity, added to the park in July 2004, is the Shake Shack, a popular 
permanent stand that serves hamburgers, hot dogs, shakes and other similar 
food, as well as wine. Its distinctive building, which was designed by 
Sculpture in the Environment, an architectural and environmental design 
firm based in Lower Manhattan, sits near the southeast entrance to the 
park. The names of the neighborhoods around Madison Square have changed 
frequently, and continue to do so. Around the park and to the south is 
the Flatiron District, an area that, since the 1980s, has changed from 
a primarily commercial district with many photographer's studios—located 
there because of the relatively cheap rents—into a prime residential area. 
Rose Hill is to the north and east of the park, while NoMad is to the north 
and Chelsea is to the west. Within the area, Madison Avenue continues to 
be primarily a business district, while Broadway just north of the square 
holds many small "wholesale" and import shops. The area west of the square 
remains mostly commercial, but with many residential structures being built. 
In 1989, the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission had created the Ladies' 
Mile Historic District to protect and preserve the area. Additionally, 
since 2001, the Madison Square North Historic District for the area north 
and west of the park,[41] in the neighborhood that since 1999 has been 
referred to as NoMad ("NOrth of MADison Square Park ").[42][43][44] On 
the south end of Madison Square, southwest of the park, is the Flatiron 
Building, one of the oldest of the original New York skyscrapers, and just 
to east at 1 Madison Avenue is the Met Life Tower, built in 1909 and the 
tallest building in the world until 1913, when the Woolworth Building was 
completed.[45] It is now occupied by Credit Suisse since MetLife moved 
their headquarters to the PanAm Building. The 700-foot (210 m) marble clock 
tower of this building dominates the park. The Met Life Tower absorbed 
the site of the architecturally distinguished 1854 building of the former 
Madison Square Presbyterian Church designed by architect Richard Upjohn 
on the southeast corner of 24th Street, while the Metropolitan Life North 
Building replaced the 1906 replacement church on the northeast corner of 
24th Street and Madison designed by Stanford White and demolished in 1919.[46] 
Nearby, on Madison Avenue between 26th and 27th Streets, on the site of 
the old Madison Square Garden, is the New York Life Building, built in 
1928 and designed by Cass Gilbert, with a square tower topped by a striking 
gilded pyramid. Also of note is the statuary adorning the Appellate Division 
Courthouse of the New York State Supreme Court on Madison Avenue at 25th 
Street. One Madison Park, a new 50-story residential condominium tower, 
is located at 22 East 23rd Street, at the foot of Madison Avenue across 
from the park.[47][48] Down the block to the west, on the southeast corner 
of Broadway and 23rd Street, with the address of 5 East 22nd Street, is 
the Madison Green condominium apartment tower. While not architecturally 
notable, the building is significant as one of the first signs that the 
area was rebounding. The 31-story building was first announced in the mid-1970s, 
but was not constructed until 1982.[49][50] On the other side of the Flatiron 
Building from Madison Green, at the southwest corner of Fifth Avenue and 
23rd Street, is Henry J. Hardenbergh's Western Union Telegraph Building, 
one of the first commercial buildings in the area. It was completed in 
1884, the same year his Dakota Apartment Building was finished.[51] Madison 
Square can be reached on the New York City Subway via local service on 
the BMT Broadway Line (N Q R W trains) at the 23rd Street station.[52][53] 
In addition, local stops on the IRT Lexington Avenue Line (4 6 <6> trains) 
and IND Sixth Avenue Line (F M trains) are one block away at Park Avenue 
South and Sixth Avenue, respectively.[54][53] Snowstorm, Madison Square 
by Childe Hassam (c.1890) Stanford White's Madison Square Garden is in 
the background Madison Square in 1893, looking north; note the Worth Monument 
in the upper center Madison Square Park After the Rain painted by Paul 
Cornoyer (c.1900) In 1920, the American artist Thomas Hart Benton depicted 
the Seward statue, the Eternal Light flagpole, and the Worth obelisk in 
his painting New York, Early Twenties. A hand-colored postcard from the 
turn of the 20th century The Square and Park in 1908; the "cowcatcher" 
and "prow" of the Flatiron Building are on the right David Farragut by 
Augustus Saint-Gaudens William H. Seward, the Secretary of State who purchased 
Alaska The fountain, a modern reproduction installed in 1990 based on the 
1867 original, restored in 2015.[22][23] Roscoe Conkling was a Republican 
political boss President Chester A. Arthur A concert sponsored by the Conservancy 
The Shake Shack Veterans Day Parade marchers start in the park A summer 
