Magnum, P.I. is an American crime drama television series starring Tom 
Selleck as Thomas Magnum, a private investigator living on Oahu, Hawaii. 
The series ran from 1980 to 1988 during its first-run broadcast on the 
American television network CBS. According to the Nielsen ratings, Magnum, 
P.I. consistently ranked in the top twenty U.S. television programs during 
the first five years that the series was originally broadcast in the United 
States.[1] Thomas Sullivan Magnum IV, a private investigator, played by 
Tom Selleck, resides in the guest house of a posh, 200-acre (81 ha) beachfront 
estate, known as Robin's Nest, in Hawaii, at the invitation of its owner, 
Robin Masters, the celebrated-but-never-seen author of several dozen lurid 
novels. Ostensibly this is quid pro quo for Magnum's services based upon 
Magnum's expertise in security; the pilot and several early episodes suggest 
Magnum also did Masters a favor of some kind, possibly when Masters hired 
him for a case. The voice of Robin Masters, heard only a few times per 
season, was provided by Orson Welles (one last "appearance" was provided 
by a different actor, Reid Crandell).[citation needed] With Magnum living 
a luxurious life on the estate and operating as a P.I. on cases that suit 
him, the only thorn in the side of this near-perfect lifestyle on the estate 
is Jonathan Quayle Higgins III, played by John Hillerman, an ex-British 
Army Sergeant Major, a (on the surface) stern, "by-the-book" caretaker 
of Robin's Nest, whose strict ways usually conflict with Magnum's much 
more easy-going methods. He patrols Robin's Nest with his two highly trained 
"lads", Doberman Pinschers named Zeus and Apollo. Often as a humorous aside 
during various episodes of the series, Magnum must bargain with Higgins 
for use of estate amenities other than the guest house and the car, a Ferrari 
308 GTS, (e.g., tennis courts, wine cellar, expensive cameras).[citation 
needed] The relationship between Magnum and Higgins was initially cool, 
but as the series progressed, an unspoken respect and fondness of sorts 
grew between the pair. Many episodes dedicated more screen time to this 
"odd couple" pairing after the relationship proved popular with fans. A 
recurrent theme throughout the last two seasons, starting in the episode 
"Paper War", involves Magnum's sneaking suspicion that Higgins is actually 
Robin Masters since he opens Robin's mail, calls Robin's Ferrari "his car", 
etc. This suspicion is never proved or disproved, although in at least 
one episode - "Déjà-Vu" S06E02 - Higgins is shown alone in a room, picking 
up the ringing phone and talking to Robin Masters, indicating they are 
two different persons.[citation needed] Aside from Higgins, Magnum's two 
other main companions on the islands are Theodore "T.C." Calvin (Roger 
E. Mosley), who runs a local helicopter charter service called Island Hoppers, 
and so often finds himself persuaded by Magnum to fly him during various 
cases, and Orville Wilbur Richard "Rick" Wright (Larry Manetti), who refuses 
to use his birth name Orville and who owns a local bar. In the pilot episode, 
this was "Rick's Place" in town, inspired by Casablanca, with Rick appearing 
in suitable 1930s attire. However, after completing the pilot, executives 
on the series felt that audiences would be unable to fully connect with 
this element, and instead Rick moved to running the plush beachside King 
Kamehameha Club, which has exclusive membership and Higgins on the board 
of directors, and yet Magnum often strolls around, using the facilities 
and running up an ever unpaid tab, further fueling the Magnum-Higgins feud.[citation 
needed] T.C. and Rick are both former Marines from VMO-2 with whom Magnum, 
who was a former Navy SEAL, served in the Vietnam War.[note 1] The series 
was one of the first to deal with Vietnam veterans as "human beings" and 
not as shell-shocked killers, and was praised by many ex-servicemen groups 
for doing so. Magnum often dupes, tricks or bribes T.C. and Rick into aiding 
him in various ways on the cases on which he works, much to their frustration, 
though the deep friendship between the group, including Higgins, proved 
to be one of the key elements of the series over its eight-season run.[citation 
needed] Magnum lives a dream lifestyle. He comes and goes as he pleases, 
works only when he wants to, has the almost unlimited use of a Ferrari 
308 GTS Quattrovalvole, and many other luxuries of the estate. Magnum keeps 
a mini-fridge with a seemingly endless supply of beer ("Old Dusseldorf 
in a long neck"), wears his father's treasured Rolex GMT Master wristwatch, 
is surrounded by countless beautiful women (who are often victims of crime, 
his clients, or connected in various other ways to the cases he solves). 
Other characteristics specific to Magnum are his thick mustache, a Detroit 
Tigers baseball cap, a rubber chicken, and a variety of colorful Aloha 
shirts. Nearly every episode is narrated, in voice-over, by Magnum at various 
points.[citation needed] At the end of the seventh season, Magnum was to 
be killed off, which was intended to end the series. The final episode 
of the season, "Limbo", after seeing Magnum wander around as a ghost for 
nearly the entire run-time, closes with him appearing to walk off into 
heaven. However, following outcry from fans, who demanded a more satisfactory 
conclusion, an eighth, final season was produced to bring Magnum "back 
to life" and to round off the series.[citation needed] The show also recognized 
the existence of the fictional elite state police unit that appeared in 
the series Hawaii Five-O. In the pilot episode, Magnum references the unit's 
chief McGarrett by name. This was a tribute to the long-running show starring 
Jack Lord, that ran on CBS from the fall of 1968 through to the summer 
of 1980, to be replaced, in essence, in the fall of 1980 by Magnum, P.I. 
The successor series to Hawaii Five-O paid tribute to Magnum, P.I. in the 
2013 episode "Hoa Pili," when the cast flew over the island in a helicopter 
to the sound of the Magnum, P.I. theme.[citation needed] She appeared in 
Seasons 2–8. The following notable actors (including some future stars) 
appeared on the show: Sharon Stone, Frank Sinatra, Lew Ayres, Dennis Weaver, 
Elisha Cook Jr., Carol Burnett, Scatman Crothers, Tyne Daly, Ted Danson, 
Norman Fell, James Doohan, Ernest Borgnine, Patrick Macnee, Pat Hingle, 
Robert Loggia, Alan Hale, Jr., Jose Ferrer, June Lockhart, Fritz Weaver, 
Dana Wynter, John Ireland, Vic Morrow, Darren McGavin, Annie Potts, Vera 
Miles, Barry Nelson, Nehemiah Persoff, Noah Beery, Jr., Barbara Rush, John 
Saxon, Beverly Garland, Jill St. John, Sylvia Sidney, William Windom, Samantha 
Eggar, Morgan Fairchild, Dana Delany, Kathleen Nolan, Marcia Wallace, Meredith 
MacRae, Mercedes McCambridge, Leslie Uggams, Cameron Mitchell, Ian McShane, 
Romy Schneider, Angela Lansbury (as Jessica Fletcher in a Murder, She Wrote 
tie-in, along with Jessica Walter and Dorothy Loudon), and Gerald McRaney 
and Jameson Parker (as Rick and A.J. Simon in a Simon & Simon tie-in).[citation 
needed] Robin's Nest is the fictional beach front estate on the island 
of Oahu, Hawaii, which serves as the residence of the main characters. 
In the series, it is portrayed as being owned by renowned novelist Robin 
Masters, who entrusts Jonathan Higgins as the estate's caretaker and Thomas 
Magnum as its security expert. Higgins resides in the estate's main house 
while Magnum occupies the guest house. In reality, located in Waimānalo, 
the 3 acres (1.2 ha) beach front property is located on the east shore 
of Oahu at 41-505 Kalanianaole Highway (Route 72) near Waimanalo Beach 
(21°19′30″N 157°40′48″W﻿ / ﻿21.32500°N 157.68000°W﻿ / 21.32500; -157.68000). 
Called "Pahonu" ("turtle enclosure" in Hawaiian),[2] it is also known locally 
as "The Anderson Estate". The property was originally used for hundreds 
of years for raising green turtles for the Hawaiian royal family, and includes 
a 500 by 50 foot stone wall that encircles the former turtle raising pond, 
which since 1978 has been on the National Register of Historic Places listings 
in Hawaii.[2] Developed as a residential estate in the early 1930s, the 
estate comprises a 11,000 square feet (1,000 m2) main house, a boathouse 
(which in the series appears as the guest house that Magnum occupies), 
a gatehouse, a private tennis court, a beach front, and the registered 
tidal pool.[2] Owned for a long time by Cox Communications heiress Barbara 
Cox Anthony, after her death it passed to her stepdaughter, local politician 
Eve Glover Anderson.[3] Placed on the market with Sotheby's International 
Realty for $15.750M in January 2014,[2] it was sold for $8.7M in March 
2015 to Seth Madorsky, a Chicago lawyer who has close ties to President 
Barack Obama, and then transferred to an LLC registered in Colorado.[4] 
The original theme music for the opening credits of the pilot episode was 
a mid-tempo jazzy piece by Ian Freebairn-Smith. This music was also used 
for the next nine regular episodes.[5] Beginning in Episode 12, it was 
replaced by a more uptempo theme typical of 1980s action series by Mike 
Post and Pete Carpenter with guitar by Larry Carlton. This theme had been 
used during the show and over the closing credits since Episode 8. A longer 
version of this second theme ("Theme from Magnum P.I.", clocking in at 
3:25) credited to Post was released as a 7" single by Elektra Records in 
1982 and charted on the Billboard Hot 100 that same year, peaking at No. 
25 on 8 May 1982.[6][7] This version also appeared on Post's 1982 album 
Television Theme Songs.[8] Robin Masters' cars Others (in the episodes 
"Dream a Little Dream" and "Missing Melody")[15] Selleck's contract commitment 
to the Magnum, P.I. series famously cost him the role of Indiana Jones 
in the first Indiana Jones film, Raiders of the Lost Ark, which went to 
Harrison Ford.[16] Selleck was unable to take the part of Indy as Magnum 
was due to start filming in March 1980. However, because of the 1980 AFTRA/Screen 
Actors Guild strike, the start of production on Magnum was delayed until 
December 1980, which would have allowed Selleck to play Indy.[17] In the 
show's final season, the producers gave a nod to his sacrifice with the 
episode "Legend of the Lost Art", which parodied the film.[citation needed] 
Selleck won an Emmy in 1984 for his portrayal of the title character. Three 
years later, co-star John Hillerman also won an Emmy.[citation needed][18] 
In 1981, series creators and writers Glen A. Larson and Donald P. Bellisario 
received an Edgar Award from the Mystery Writers of America for Best Episode 
in a TV Series.[note 3] Golden Globe Awards[19] Primetime Emmy Awards Other 
Awards Universal Studios Home Entertainment has released all eight seasons 
of Magnum, P.I. on DVD in Region 1, 2 and 4. On October 1, 2013, Universal 
released Magnum, P.I. - The Complete Series on DVD in Region 1. The 42-disc 
set features all 162 episodes of the series as well as bonus features.[20][21] 
* Includes the crossover Season 2 episode from Simon & Simon titled "Emerlads 
Are Not a Girl's Best Friend".[22] ** Includes the crossover Season 3 episode 
from Murder, She Wrote titled "Magnum On Ice". *** Includes the bonus Season 
5 episode from The Rockford Files titled "White on White and Nearly Perfect" 
featuring Tom Selleck. ****Includes bonus episodes from The A-Team, Season 
2 titled "Diamonds 'n' Dust" and Knight Rider, Season 2 titled "Brother's 
Keeper". In September 2016, ABC is developing a sequel from Leverage creator 
John Rogers and producer Eva Longoria centering on Lily “Tommy” Magnum.[23] 
