Maine (/ˈmeɪn/; French: État du Maine) is the northernmost state in the 
New England region of the northeastern United States. Maine is the 39th 
most extensive and the 41st most populous of the U.S. states and territories. 
It is bordered by New Hampshire to the west, the Atlantic Ocean to the 
south and east, and the Canadian provinces of New Brunswick and Quebec 
to the east and north, respectively. Maine is the easternmost state in 
the contiguous United States, and the northernmost east of the Great Lakes. 
It is known for its jagged, rocky coastline; low, rolling mountains; heavily 
forested interior, and picturesque waterways; and also its seafood cuisine, 
especially clams and lobster. There is a continental climate throughout 
the state, even in coastal areas such as its most populous city of Portland.[9] 
The capital is Augusta. For thousands of years, indigenous peoples were 
the only inhabitants of the territory that is now Maine. At the time of 
European arrival in what is now Maine, several Algonquian-speaking peoples 
inhabited the area. The first European settlement in the area was by the 
French in 1604 on Saint Croix Island, by Pierre Dugua, Sieur de Mons. The 
first English settlement was the short-lived Popham Colony, established 
by the Plymouth Company in 1607. A number of English settlements were established 
along the coast of Maine in the 1620s, although the rugged climate, deprivations, 
and conflict with the local peoples caused many to fail over the years. 
As Maine entered the 18th century, only a half dozen European settlements 
had survived. Loyalist and Patriot forces contended for Maine's territory 
during the American Revolution and the War of 1812. At the close of the 
War of 1812, it was occupied by British forces, but the territory of Maine 
was returned to the United States as part of a peace treaty that was to 
include dedicated land on the Michigan peninsula for Native American peoples. 
Maine was part of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts until 1820, when it 
voted to secede from Massachusetts to become an independent state. On March 
15, 1820, it was admitted to the Union as the 23rd state under the Missouri 
Compromise. There is no definitive explanation for the origin of the name 
"Maine", but the most likely origin is the name given by early explorers 
for a province in France. Whatever the origin, the name was fixed for English 
settlers in 1665 when the English King's Commissioners ordered that the 
"Province of Maine" be entered from then on in official records.[10] The 
state legislature in 2001 adopted a resolution establishing Franco-American 
Day, which stated that the state was named after the former French province 
of Maine.[11] Other theories mention earlier places with similar names, 
or claim it is a nautical reference to the mainland.[12] The history of 
the name of Maine began with James Sullivan's 1795 "History of the District 
of Maine". He made the unsubstantiated allegation that the Province of 
Maine was a compliment to the queen of Charles I, Henrietta Maria, who 
once "owned" the Province of Maine in France. This was quoted by Maine 
historians until the 1845 biography of that queen by Agnes Strickland[13] 
established that she had no connection to the Province of Maine in France; 
further, King Charles I married Henrietta Maria in 1625, three years after 
the name Maine first appeared on the charter.[14] A new theory, put forward 
by Carol B. Smith Fisher in 2002, is that Sir Ferdinando Gorges chose the 
name in 1622 to honor the village where his ancestors first lived in England, 
rather than the province in France. "MAINE" appears in the Domesday Book 
of 1086 in reference to the county of Dorset, which is today Broadmayne, 
just southeast of Dorchester.[14][15] The view generally held among British 
place name scholars is that Mayne in Dorset is Brythonic, corresponding 
to modern Welsh "maen", plural "main" or "meini".[citation needed] Some 
early spellings are: MAINE 1086, MEINE 1200, MEINES 1204, MAYNE 1236.[citation 
needed] Today the village is known as Broadmayne, which is primitive Welsh 
or Brythonic, "main" meaning rock or stone, considered a reference to the 
many large sarsen stones still present around Little Mayne farm, half a 
mile northeast of Broadmayne village.[16][17] The first known record of 
the name appears in an August 10, 1622, land charter to Sir Ferdinando 
Gorges and Captain John Mason, English Royal Navy veterans, who were granted 
a large tract in present-day Maine that Mason and Gorges "intend to name 
the Province of Maine". Mason had served with the Royal Navy in the Orkney 
Islands where the chief island is called Mainland, a possible name derivation 
for these English sailors.[10] In 1623, the English naval captain Christopher 
Levett, exploring the New England coast, wrote: "The first place I set 
my foote upon in New England was the Isle of Shoals, being Ilands [sic] 
in the sea, above two Leagues from the Mayne."[18] Initially, several tracts 
along the coast of New England were referred to as Main or Maine (cf. the 
Spanish Main). A reconfirmed and enhanced April 3, 1639, charter from England's 
King Charles I gave Sir Ferdinando Gorges increased powers over his new 
province and stated that it "shall forever hereafter, be called and named 
the PROVINCE OR COUNTIE OF MAINE, and not by any other name or names whatsoever..."[14][19] 
Maine is the only state whose name has exactly one syllable.[20][21] The 
original inhabitants of the territory that is now Maine were Algonquian-speaking 
Wabanaki peoples, including the Abenaki, Passamaquoddy, Maliseet and Penobscot, 
who had a loose confederacy. European contact with what is now called Maine 
started around 1200 CE when Norwegians interacted with the native Penobscot 
in present-day Hancock County, most likely through trade. About 200 years 
earlier, from the settlements of Iceland and Greenland, Norwegians had 
discovered America and attempted to settle areas such as Newfoundland, 
but failed to establish a permanent settlement there. Archeological evidence 
suggests that Norwegians in Greenland returned to North America for several 
centuries after the initial discovery to collect timber and to trade, with 
the most relevant evidence being the Maine Penny, a 10th-century Norwegian 
coin found at a Native American dig site in 1954.[22] The first European 
settlement in Maine was in 1604 on Saint Croix Island, led by French explorer 
Pierre Dugua, Sieur de Mons; his party included Samuel de Champlain, noted 
as an explorer. The French named the entire area Acadia, including the 
portion that later became the state of Maine. The first English settlement 
in Maine was established by the Plymouth Company at Popham in 1607, the 
same year as the settlement at Jamestown, Virginia. The Popham colonists 
returned to England after 14 months.[23] The French established two Jesuit 
missions: one on Penobscot Bay in 1609, and the other on Mount Desert Island 
in 1613. The same year, Castine was established by Claude de La Tour. In 
1625, Charles de Saint-Étienne de la Tour erected Fort Pentagouet to protect 
Castine. The coastal areas of western Maine first became the Province of 
Maine in a 1622 land patent. Eastern Maine north of the Kennebec River 
was more sparsely settled and was known in the 17th century as the Territory 
of Sagadahock. A second settlement was attempted at a place called York, 
in 1623 by English explorer and naval Captain Christopher Levett, granted 
6,000 acres (24 km2) by King Charles I of England.[24] That settlement 
also failed. Central Maine was formerly inhabited by people of the Androscoggin 
tribe, also known as Arosaguntacook. The Androscoggin were a tribe in the 
Abenaki nation. They were driven out of the area in 1690 during King William's 
War. They were relocated at St. Francis, Canada, which was destroyed by 
Rogers' Rangers in 1759, and is now Odanak. The other Abenaki tribes suffered 
several severe defeats, particularly during Dummer's War, with the capture 
of Norridgewock in 1724 and the defeat of the Pequawket in 1725, which 
greatly reduced their numbers. They finally withdrew to Canada, where they 
were settled at Bécancour and Sillery, and later at St. Francis, along 
with other refugee tribes from the south.[25] The province within its current 
boundaries became part of Massachusetts Bay Colony in 1652. Maine was much 
fought over by the French, English and allied natives during the 17th and 
early 18th centuries, who conducted raids against each other, taking captives 
for ransom or, in some cases, adoption by Native American tribes. For instance, 
in early 1692, the Abenaki raided York, killing about 100 of the English 
settlers and taking another estimated 80 villagers hostage.[26] The Abenaki 
took captives taken during raids of Massachusetts in Queen Anne's War of 
the early 1700s to Kahnewake, a Catholic Mohawk village near Montreal, 
where some were adopted and others ransomed.[27][28] After the British 
defeated the French in Acadia in the 1740s, the territory from the Penobscot 
River east fell under the nominal authority of the Province of Nova Scotia, 
and together with present-day New Brunswick formed the Nova Scotia county 
of Sunbury, with its court of general sessions at Campobello. American 
and British forces contended for Maine's territory during the American 
Revolution and the War of 1812, and British forces occupied eastern Maine 
in both conflicts.[29] The treaty concluding revolution was ambiguous about 
Maine's boundary with British North America. The territory of Maine was 
confirmed as part of Massachusetts when the United States was formed, although 
the final border with British territory was not established until the Webster–Ashburton 
Treaty of 1842. Maine was physically separate from the rest of Massachusetts. 
Long-standing disagreements over land speculation and settlements led to 
Maine residents and their allies in Massachusetts proper forcing an 1807 
vote in the Massachusetts Assembly on permitting Maine to secede; the vote 
failed. Secessionist sentiment in Maine was stoked during the War of 1812 
when Massachusetts pro-British merchants opposed the war and refused to 
defend Maine from British invaders. In 1819, Massachusetts agreed to permit 
secession if voters in Maine approved. Due to these considerations and 
rapid population growth, in 1820 Maine voted to secede from Massachusetts. 
The secession and formation of the state of Maine as the 23rd state occurred 
on March 15, 1820, as part of the Missouri Compromise, which geographically 
limited the spread of slavery and enabled the admission to statehood of 
Missouri the following year, keeping a balance between slave and free states.[30][31][32] 
Maine's original capital was Portland, Maine's largest city, until it was 
moved to Augusta in 1832 to make it more central within the state. The 
principal office of the Maine Supreme Judicial Court remains in Portland. 
The 20th Maine, under the command of Colonel Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain, 
defended Little Round Top at the Battle of Gettysburg. Its soldiers prevented 
the Union Army from being flanked by the Confederate Army. Four U.S. Navy 
ships have been named USS Maine in honor of the state. To the south and 
east is the Atlantic Ocean and to the north and northeast is New Brunswick, 
a province of Canada. The Canadian province of Quebec is to the northwest. 
Maine is both the northernmost state in New England and the largest, accounting 
for almost half the region's entire land area. Maine is the only state 
to border only one other state (New Hampshire to the west). Maine is the 
easternmost state in the United States in both its extreme points and its 
geographic center. The municipalities of Eastport and Lubec are, respectively, 
the easternmost city and town in the United States. Estcourt Station is 
Maine's northernmost point, as well as the northernmost point in New England. 
(For more information see extreme points of the United States.) Maine's 
Moosehead Lake is the largest lake wholly in New England, as Lake Champlain 
is located between Vermont, New York and Quebec. A number of other Maine 
lakes, such as South Twin Lake, are described by Thoreau in The Maine Woods 
(1864). Mount Katahdin is both the northern terminus of the Appalachian 
Trail, which extends southerly to Springer Mountain, Georgia, and the southern 
terminus of the new International Appalachian Trail which, when complete, 
will run to Belle Isle, Newfoundland and Labrador. Maine has several unique 
geographical features. Machias Seal Island and North Rock, off its easternmost 
point, are claimed by both the U.S. and Canada and are within one of four 
areas between the two countries whose sovereignty is still in dispute, 
but it is the only one of the disputed areas containing land. Also in this 
easternmost area in the Bay of Fundy is the Old Sow, the largest tidal 
whirlpool in the Western Hemisphere. Maine is the least densely populated 
U.S. state east of the Mississippi River. It is called the Pine Tree State; 
about 83% of its land is forested.[33] In the forested areas of the interior 
lies much uninhabited land, some of which does not have formal political 
organization into local units (a rarity in New England). The Northwest 
Aroostook, Maine unorganized territory in the northern part of the state, 
for example, has an area of 2,668 square miles (6,910 km2) and a population 
of 10, or one person for every 267 square miles (690 km2). Maine is in 
the temperate broadleaf and mixed forests biome. The land near the southern 
and central Atlantic coast is covered by the mixed oaks of the Northeastern 
coastal forests. The remainder of the state, including the North Woods, 
is covered by the New England-Acadian forests.[34] Maine has almost 230 
miles (400 km) of coastline (and 3,500 miles (5,600 km) of tidal coastline).[35][36] 
West Quoddy Head, in Lubec, Maine, is the easternmost point of land in 
the 48 contiguous states. Along the famous rock-bound coast of Maine are 
lighthouses, beaches, fishing villages, and thousands of offshore islands, 
including the Isles of Shoals which straddle the New Hampshire border. 
There are jagged rocks and cliffs and many bays and inlets. Inland are 
lakes, rivers, forests, and mountains. This visual contrast of forested 
slopes sweeping down to the sea has been summed up by American poet Edna 
St. Vincent Millay of Rockland and Camden, Maine, in "Renascence": Geologists 
describe this type of landscape as a "drowned coast", where a rising sea 
level has invaded former land features, creating bays out of valleys and 
islands out of mountain tops.[37] A rise in the elevation of the land due 
to the melting of heavy glacier ice caused a slight rebounding effect of 
underlying rock; this land rise, however, was not enough to eliminate all 
the effect of the rising sea level and its invasion of former land features. 
Much of Maine's geomorphology was created by extended glacial activity 
at the end of the last ice age. Prominent glacial features include Somes 
Sound and Bubble Rock, both part of Acadia National Park on Mount Desert 
Island. Carved by glaciers, Somes Sound is considered to be the only fjord 
on the eastern seaboard and reaches depths of 175 feet (50 m). The extreme 
depth and steep drop-off allow large ships to navigate almost the entire 
length of the sound. These features also have made it attractive for boat 
builders, such as the prestigious Hinckley Yachts. Bubble Rock, a glacial 
erratic, is a large boulder perched on the edge of Bubble Mountain in Acadia 
National Park. By analyzing the type of granite, geologists were able to 
discover that glaciers carried Bubble Rock to its present location from 
near the town of Lucerne, Maine — 30 miles (48 km) away. The Iapetus Suture 
runs through the north and west of the state, being underlain by the ancient 
Laurentian terrane, and the south and east underlain by the Avalonian terrane. 
Acadia National Park is the only national park in New England. Areas under 
the protection and management of the National Park Service include:[38] 
Maine has a humid continental climate (Köppen climate classification Dfb), 
with warm (although generally not hot), humid summers. Winters are cold 
and snowy throughout the state, and are especially severe in the northern 
parts of Maine. Coastal areas are moderated somewhat by the Atlantic Ocean, 
resulting in milder winters and cooler summers in immediate coastal areas. 
Daytime highs are generally in the 75–80 °F (24–27 °C) range throughout 
the state in July, with overnight lows in the high 50s °F (around 15 °C). 
January temperatures range from highs near 32 °F (0 °C) on the southern 
coast to overnight lows averaging below 0 °F (−18 °C) in the far north.[39] 
The state's record high temperature is 105 °F (41 °C), set in July 1911, 
at North Bridgton.[40] Precipitation in Maine is evenly distributed year-round, 
but with a slight summer maximum in northern/northwestern Maine and a slight 
late-fall or early-winter maximum along the coast due to "nor'easters" 
or intense cold-season storms. In coastal Maine, the late spring and summer 
months are usually driest – a rarity across the Eastern United States. 
Maine has fewer days of thunderstorms than any other state east of the 
Rockies, with most of the state averaging less than 20 days of thunderstorms 
a year. Tornadoes are rare in Maine, with the state averaging fewer than 
two per year, mostly occurring in the southern part of the state.[41] Maine 
rarely sees tropical cyclones. In January 2009, a new record low temperature 
for the state was set at Big Black River of −50 °F (−46 °C), tying the 
New England record.[39] Annual precipitation varies from 909 mm (35.8 in) 
in Presque Isle, to 1,441 mm (56.7 in) in Acadia National Park.[42] The 
United States Census Bureau estimates that the population of Maine was 
1,329,328 on July 1, 2015, a 0.07% increase since the 2010 United States 
Census.[4] The population density of the state is 41.3 people per square 
mile, making it the least densely populated state in New England, the American 
northeast, the eastern seaboard, of all of the states with an Atlantic 
coastline and of all of the states east of the Mississippi River. The mean 
population center of Maine is located in Kennebec County, just east of 
Augusta.[45] The Greater Portland metropolitan area is the most densely 
populated with nearly 40% of Maine's population.[46] As explained in detail 
under "Geography", there are large tracts of uninhabited land in some remote 
parts of the interior. At the 2010 Census, 94.4% of the population was 
non-Hispanic White, 1.1% non-Hispanic Black or African American, 0.6% American 
Indian and Alaska Native, 1.0% Asian, 0.1% from some other race and 1.4% 
of two or more races. 1.3% of Maine's population was of Hispanic, Latino, 
or Spanish origin.[47] People citing that they are American are of overwhelmingly 
English descent, but have ancestry that has been in the region for so long 
(often since the 1600s) that they choose to identify simply as Americans.[52][53][54][55][56][57][58] 
Maine has the highest percentage of French Americans among American states. 
It also has the highest percentage of non-Hispanic whites of any state, 
at 94.4% of the total population, according to the 2010 Census. In 2011, 
89.0% of all births in the state were to non-Hispanic white parents.[59] 
The state also has the highest percentage of French-speakers of any state. 
Most of the French in Maine are of Canadian Origin, but in some cases have 
been living there prior to the Revolutionary War. There are particularly 
high concentrations of French in the northern part of Maine in Aroostook 
County, which is part of a cultural region known as Acadia that goes over 
the border into New Brunswick. Along with the Acadian population in the 
north, many French came from Quebec as immigrants between 1840 and 1930. 
Census figures show that Maine has the highest percentage of people speaking 
French at home of any state: 5.28% of Maine households are French-speaking, 
compared with 4.68% in Louisiana, which is the second highest state.[60] 
French-speakers are the state's chief linguistic minority; the 2000 Census 
reported 92.25% of Maine residents aged five and older spoke only English 
at home. Maine does not have an official language,[2] but the most widely 
spoken language in the state is English. Spanish is the third-most-spoken 
language in Maine, after English and French [3]. The upper Saint John River 
valley area was once part of the so-called Republic of Madawaska, before 
the frontier was decided in the Webster-Ashburton Treaty of 1842. Over 
one quarter of the population of Lewiston, Waterville, and Biddeford are 
Franco-American. Most of the residents of the Mid Coast and Down East sections 
are chiefly of British heritage. Smaller numbers of various other groups, 
including Irish, Italian and Polish, have settled throughout the state 
since the late 19th and early 20th century immigration waves. According 
to the Association of Religion Data Archives (ARDA),[61] the religious 
affiliations of Maine in 2010 were: The Catholic Church was the largest 
religious institution with 202,106 members, the United Methodist Church 
had 28,329 members, the United Church of Christ had 22,747 members In 2010, 
a study named Maine as the least religious state in the United States.[62] 
The Bureau of Economic Analysis estimates that Maine's total gross state 
product for 2010 was $52 billion.[63] Its per capita personal income for 
2007 was US$33,991, 34th in the nation. As of April 2016, Maine's unemployment 
rate is 3.4%[64] Maine's agricultural outputs include poultry, eggs, dairy 
products, cattle, wild blueberries, apples, maple syrup and maple sugar. 
Aroostook County is known for its potato crops. Commercial fishing, once 
a mainstay of the state's economy, maintains a presence, particularly lobstering 
and groundfishing. Western Maine aquifers and springs are a major source 
of bottled water. Maine's industrial outputs consist chiefly of paper, 
lumber and wood products, electronic equipment, leather products, food 
products, textiles, and bio-technology. Naval shipbuilding and construction 
remain key as well, with Bath Iron Works in Bath and Portsmouth Naval Shipyard 
in Kittery. Brunswick Landing, formerly Naval Air Station Brunswick, is 
also in Maine. Formerly a large support base for the U.S. Navy, the BRAC 
campaign initiated the Naval Air Station's closing, despite a government-funded 
effort to upgrade its facilities. The former base has since been changed 
into a civilian business park, as well as a new satellite campus for Southern 
Maine Community College.[65] Maine is the number one US producer of low-bush 
blueberries (Vaccinium angustifolium). Preliminary data from the USDA for 
2012 also indicate Maine was the largest blueberry producer of the major 
blueberry producing states in the US, with 91,100,000 lbs.[66] This data 
includes both low (wild), and high-bush (cultivated) blueberries: Vaccinium 
corymbosum. The largest toothpick manufacturing plant in the United States 
used to be located in Strong, Maine. The Strong Wood Products plant produced 
20 million toothpicks a day. It closed in May 2003. Tourism and outdoor 
recreation play a major and increasingly important role in Maine's economy. 
The state is a popular destination for sport hunting (particularly deer, 
moose and bear), sport fishing, snowmobiling, skiing, boating, camping 
and hiking, among other activities. Historically, Maine ports played a 
key role in national transportation. Beginning around 1880, Portland's 
rail link and ice-free port made it Canada's principal winter port, until 
the aggressive development of Halifax, Nova Scotia, in the mid-1900s. In 
2013, 12,039,600 short tons passed into and out of Portland by sea,[67] 
which places it 45th out of the top 50 US water ports.[68] Portland Maine's 
Portland International Jetport was recently expanded, providing the state 
with increased air traffic from carriers such as JetBlue and Southwest 
Airlines. Maine has very few large companies that maintain headquarters 
in the state, and that number has fallen due to consolidations and mergers, 
particularly in the pulp and paper industry. Some of the larger companies 
that do maintain headquarters in Maine include Fairchild Semiconductor 
in South Portland; IDEXX Laboratories, in Westbrook; Hannaford Bros. Co. 
in Scarborough, Unum in Portland; TD Bank, in Portland; L.L.Bean in Freeport; 
Cole Haan and DeLorme, both located in Yarmouth. Maine is also the home 
of The Jackson Laboratory, the world's largest non-profit mammalian genetic 
research facility and the world's largest supplier of genetically purebred 
mice. Maine has an income tax structure containing two brackets, 6.5% to 
7.95% of personal income.[69] Before July 2013 Maine had four brackets: 
2%, 4.5%, 7%, and 8.5%.[70] Maine's general sales tax rate is 5.5%. The 
state also levies charges of 7% on lodging and prepared food and 10% on 
short-term auto rentals. Commercial sellers of blueberries, a Maine staple, 
must keep records of their transactions and pay the state 1.5 cents per 
pound ($1.50 per 100 pounds) of the fruit sold each season. All real and 
tangible personal property located in the state of Maine is taxable unless 
specifically exempted by statute. The administration of property taxes 
is handled by the local assessor in incorporated cities and towns, while 
property taxes in the unorganized territories are handled by the State 
Tax Assessor. Maine has a longstanding tradition of being home to many 
shipbuilding companies. In the 18th and 19th centuries, Maine was home 
to many shipyards that produced wooden sailing ships. The main function 
of these ships was to transport either cargos or passengers overseas. One 
of these yards was located in Pennellville Historic District in what is 
now Brunswick, Maine. This yard, owned by the Pennell family, was typical 
of the many family-owned shipbuilding companies of the time period. Other 
such examples of shipbuilding families were the Skolfields and the Morses. 
During the 18th and 19th centuries, wooden shipbuilding of this sort made 
up a sizable portion of the economy. Maine receives passenger jet service 
at its two largest airports, the Portland International Jetport in Portland, 
and the Bangor International Airport in Bangor. Both are served daily by 
many major airlines to destinations such as New York, Atlanta, and Orlando. 
Essential Air Service also subsidizes service to a number of smaller airports 
in Maine, bringing small turboprop aircraft to regional airports such as 
the Augusta State Airport, Hancock County-Bar Harbor Airport, Knox County 
Regional Airport, and the Northern Maine Regional Airport at Presque Isle. 
These airports are served by Cape Air with Cessna 402s and Penair with 
Saab 340s. Many smaller airports are scattered throughout Maine, only serving 
general aviation traffic. The Eastport Municipal Airport, for example, 
is a city-owned public-use airport with 1,200 general aviation aircraft 
operations each year from single-engine and ultralight aircraft.[71] Interstate 95 
(I-95) travels through Maine, as well as its easterly branch I-295 and 
spurs 195, 395 and the unsigned I-495. In addition, U.S. Route 1 (US 1) 
starts in Fort Kent and travels to Florida. The eastern terminus of the 
eastern section of US 2 starts in Houlton, near the New Brunswick, Canada 
border to Rouses Point, New York, at US 11. US 2A connects Old Town and 
Orono, primarily serving the University of Maine campus. US 201 and US 202 
flow through the state. US 2, Maine State Route 6 (Route 6), and Route 9 
are often used by truckers and other motorists of the Maritime Provinces 
en route to other destinations in the United States or as a short cut to 
Central Canada. The Downeaster passenger train, operated by Amtrak, provides 
passenger service between Brunswick and Boston's North Station, with stops 
in Freeport, Portland, Old Orchard Beach, Saco, and Wells. The Downeaster 
makes five daily trips, two of which continue past Portland to Brunswick.[72] 
Freight service throughout the state is provided by a handful of regional 
and shortline carriers: Pan Am Railways (formerly known as Guilford Rail 
System), which operates the former Boston & Maine and Maine Central railroads; 
St. Lawrence and Atlantic Railroad; Maine Eastern Railroad; Central Maine 
and Quebec Railway; and New Brunswick Southern Railway. The Maine Constitution 
structures Maine's state government, composed of three co-equal branches—the 
executive, legislative, and judicial branches. The state of Maine also 
has three Constitutional Officers (the Secretary of State, the State Treasurer, 
and the State Attorney General) and one Statutory Officer (the State Auditor). 
The legislative branch is the Maine Legislature, a bicameral body composed 
of the Maine House of Representatives, with 151 members, and the Maine 
Senate, with 35 members. The Legislature is charged with introducing and 
passing laws. The executive branch is responsible for the execution of 
the laws created by the Legislature and is headed by the Governor of Maine 
(currently Paul LePage). The Governor is elected every four years; no individual 
may serve more than two consecutive terms in this office. The current attorney 
general of Maine is Janet Mills. As with other state legislatures, the 
Maine Legislature can by a two-thirds majority vote from both the House 
and Senate override a gubernatorial veto. Maine is one of seven states 
that do not have a lieutenant governor. The judicial branch is responsible 
for interpreting state laws. The highest court of the state is the Maine 
Supreme Judicial Court. The lower courts are the District Court, Superior 
Court and Probate Court. All judges except for probate judges serve full-time, 
are nominated by the Governor and confirmed by the Legislature for terms 
of seven years. Probate judges serve part-time and are elected by the voters 
of each county for four-year terms. Maine is divided into political jurisdictions 
designated as counties. In 1860 there were 16 counties in the state, ranging 
in size from 370 to 6,829 square miles (958 to 17,700 km2). In state general 
elections, Maine voters tend to accept independent and third-party candidates 
more frequently than most states. Maine has had two independent governors 
recently (James B. Longley, 1975–1979 and Angus King, 1995–2003). Maine 
state politicians, Republicans and Democrats alike, are noted for having 
more moderate views than many in the national wings of their respective 
parties. Maine is an alcoholic beverage control state. On May 6, 2009, 
Maine became the fifth state to legalize same-sex marriage; however, the 
law was repealed by voters on November 3, 2009. On November 6, 2012, Maine, 
along with Maryland and Washington, became the first state to legalize 
same-sex marriage at the ballot box.[74] In the 1930s, Maine was one of 
very few states which retained Republican sentiments. In the 1936 presidential 
election, Franklin D. Roosevelt received the electoral votes of every state 
other than Maine and Vermont; these were the only two states in the nation 
that never voted for Roosevelt in any of his presidential campaigns, though 
Maine was closely fought in 1940 and 1944. In the 1960s, Maine began to 
lean toward the Democrats, especially in presidential elections. In 1968, 
Hubert Humphrey became just the second Democrat in half a century to carry 
Maine, perhaps because of the presence of his running mate, Maine Senator 
Edmund Muskie, although the state voted Republican in every presidential 
election in the 1970s and 1980s. Since 1969, two of Maine's four electoral 
votes have been awarded based on the winner of the statewide election; 
the other two go to the highest vote-getter in each of the state's two 
congressional districts. Every other state except Nebraska gives all its 
electoral votes to the candidate who wins the popular vote in the state 
at large, without regard to performance within districts. Ross Perot achieved 
a great deal of success in Maine in the presidential elections of 1992 
and 1996. In 1992, as an independent candidate, Perot came in second to 
Democrat Bill Clinton, despite the longtime presence of the Bush family 
summer home in Kennebunkport. In 1996, as the nominee of the Reform Party, 
Perot did better in Maine than in any other state. Maine has voted for 
the Democratic candidate in six successive presidential elections, casting 
its votes for Bill Clinton twice, Al Gore in 2000, John Kerry in 2004, 
and Barack Obama in 2008 and 2012. Although Democrats have carried the 
state in presidential elections in recent years, Republicans have largely 
maintained their control of the state's U.S. Senate seats, with Edmund 
Muskie, William Hathaway and George J. Mitchell being the only Maine Democrats 
serving in the U.S. Senate in the past fifty years. In the 2010 midterm 
elections, Republicans made major gains in Maine. They captured the governor's 
office as well as majorities in both chambers of the state legislature 
for the first time since the early 1970s. However, in 2012 elections Democrats 
managed to recapture both houses of Maine Legislature. Maine's U.S. senators 
are Republican Susan Collins and Independent Angus King. The governor is 
Republican Paul LePage. The state's two members of the United States House 
of Representatives are Democrat Chellie Pingree and Republican Bruce Poliquin. 
An organized municipality has a form of elected local government which 
administers and provides local services, keeps records, collects licensing 
fees, and can pass locally binding ordinances, among other responsibilities 
of self-government. The governmental format of most organized towns and 
plantations is the town meeting, while the format of most cities is the 
council-manager form. As of 2013 the organized municipalities of Maine 
consist of 23 cities, 431 towns, and 34 plantations. Collectively these 
488 organized municipalities cover less than half of the state's territory. 
Maine also has 3 Reservations: Indian Island, Indian Township Reservation, 
and Pleasant Point Indian Reservation.[76] Unorganized territory has no 
local government. Administration, services, licensing, and ordinances are 
handled by the state government. The unorganized territory of Maine consists 
of over 400 townships (towns are incorporated, townships are unincorporated), 
plus many coastal islands that do not lie within any municipal bounds. 
The UT land area is slightly over one half the entire area of the State 
of Maine. Year-round residents in the UT number approximately 9,000, about 
1.3% of the state's total population, with many more people residing only 
seasonally within the UT. Only four of Maine's sixteen counties (Androscoggin, 
Cumberland, Waldo and York) are entirely incorporated, although a few others 
are nearly so, and most of the unincorporated area is in the vast and sparsely 
populated Great North Woods of Maine.[77] QuickFacts US Census Maine Portland: 
Augusta Bangor Bath Biddeford Brunswick Lewiston Old Town Portland Saco 
Throughout Maine, many municipalities, although each separate governmental 
entities, nevertheless form portions of a much larger population base. 
There are many such population clusters throughout Maine, but some examples 
from the municipalities appearing in the above listing are: There are thirty 
institutions of higher learning in Maine.[79] These institutions include 
the University of Maine, which is the oldest, largest and only research 
university in the state. UMaine was founded in 1865 and is the state's 
only land grant and sea grant college. The University of Maine is located 
in the town of Orono and is the flagship of Maine. There are also branch 
campuses in Augusta, Farmington, Fort Kent, Machias, and Presque Isle.[80] 
Bowdoin College is a liberal arts college founded in 1794 in Brunswick, 
making it the oldest institution of higher learning in the state. Colby 
College in Waterville was founded in 1813 making it the second oldest college 
in Maine.[81] Bates College in Lewiston was founded in 1855 making it the 
third oldest institution in the state and the oldest coeducational college 
in New England.[82] The three colleges collectively form the Colby-Bates-Bowdoin 
Consortium and are ranked among the best colleges in the United States; 
often placing in the top 10% of all liberal arts colleges.[83][84][85] 
Maine' per-student public expenditure for elementary and secondary schools 
was 21st in the nation in 2012, at $12,344.[86] The collegiate system of 
Maine also includes numerous baccalaureate colleges such as: the Maine 
Maritime Academcy (MMA), Unity College, and Thomas College. There is only 
one medical school in the state, (University of New England's College of 
Osteopathic Medicine) and only one law school (The University of Maine 
School of Law). Private schools in Maine are funded independently of the 
state and its furthered domains. Private schools are less common than public 
schools. A large number of private elementary schools with under 20 students 
exist, but most private high schools in Maine can be described as "semi-private." 
Adapted from the Maine facts site.[87] A citizen of Maine is known as a 
"Mainer",[3] though the term is often reserved for those whose roots in 
Maine go back at least three generations.[91] The term "Downeaster" may 
be applied to residents of the northeast coast of the state. The term "Mainiac" 
is considered by some to be derogatory, but embraced with pride by others,[92] 
and is used for a variety of organizations and for events such as the YMCA 
Mainiac Sprint Triathlon & Duathlon.[93] State government U.S. government 
