Major League Baseball on CBS is the branding used for broadcasts of Major 
League Baseball (MLB) games produced by CBS Sports, the sports division 
of the CBS television network in the United States. The network has aired 
Major League Baseball telecasts in several variations dating back to the 
1950s.[4] The most notable version existed from 1990 to 1993. On August 
11, 1951, CBS' flagship television station WCBS-TV in New York City broadcast 
the first baseball game ever televised in color between the Brooklyn Dodgers 
and Boston Braves from Ebbets Field, in which the Braves beat the Dodgers 
8–1. By 1955,[5] Dizzy Dean[6] and the Game of the Week would move from 
ABC to CBS[7] (the rights were actually set up through the Falstaff Brewing 
Corporation[8][9]). "CBS' stakes were higher" said Buddy Blattner, who 
left the Mutual Broadcasting System to rejoin Dean. Ron Powers wrote about 
the reteaming of Dean and Blattner, "they wanted someone who'd known Diz, 
could bring him out." Gene Kirby, who had worked with Dean and Blattner 
at Mutual and ABC, produced the telecasts and also shared announcing duties. 
Bob Finnegan, who along with Bill McColgan had called backup games for 
ABC, performed the same role for CBS, working with a variety of color men 
including future Wide World of Sports host Jim McKay[10] and future World 
News Tonight anchor Frank Reynolds. In 1956, CBS Sports director Frank 
Chirkinian devised an earplug called an Intercepted Feed Back (or IFB) 
in order to connect the announcer, director, producer and thus, smoothing 
on-air flow.[11] In 1957, CBS added a Sunday Game of the Week.[12][13][14] 
ABC's Edgar Scherick said "In '53, no one wanted us. Now teams begged for 
"Game"'s cash." That year, the National Football League (NFL) began a US$14.1 
million revenue-sharing pact. By 1965, Major League Baseball ended the 
large-market blackout, got $6.5 million for exclusivity, and split the 
pot. With CBS now carrying the Game of the Week,[15] the network's stations 
in Phoenix (KOOL-TV), Little Rock (KTHV) and Cedar Rapids (KGAN-TV) were 
finally receiving the broadcasts. Bud Blattner said "America had never 
had TV network ball. Now you're getting two games a week [four, counting 
NBC, by 1959]." In 1958, Dizzy Dean ruffled the feathers of CBS Sports 
head Bill MacPhail when he said "I don't know how we come off callin' this 
the 'Game of the Week'. There's a much better game – Dodgers–Giants – over 
on NBC." Dean also once refused a Falstaff ad because the date was Mother's 
Day. When United Airlines backed CBS' Game of the Week telecasts, Dean 
– who hated to fly – said "If you have to, pod-nuh, Eastern is much the 
best." That year, George Kell served as host for the pregame show. During 
one broadcast, Kell hoped to ask guest Casey Stengel about the Yankees' 
batting order. When asked about how it went, Kell said, "Fine. But in our 
15 minutes, Casey didn't get past the leadoff batter." Jack Whitaker and 
Frankie Frisch announced the backup games from 1959 to 1961. They usually 
did games that took place in Philadelphia, New York City, Washington, D.C. 
or Baltimore. Whitaker once said in three years, he would only broadcast 
three innings because CBS would not switch away from Dizzy Dean. However, 
he said that he learned a lot of baseball just sitting next to Frisch. 
CBS had other backup crews for games featuring the Chicago Cubs and White 
Sox, Cleveland Indians and Cincinnati Reds. In these cases, Bob Finnegan 
would handle the play-by-play duties with various analysts depending on 
the city. CBS did not have Game of the Week rights from any other ballparks 
in those years. Pee Wee Reese[16] replaced Blattner as Dean's partner in 
1960. That year, Jerry Coleman hosted the pregame show for CBS' Game of 
the Week broadcasts. A rather embarrassing incident for Coleman occurred 
when he was interviewing Cookie Lavagetto when the "Star-Spangled Banner" 
started. Coleman later said, "Believe me, when the Anthem starts, I stop, 
whether I'm taping, talking, or eating a banana."[17] In 1963 and 1964, 
viewers in San Francisco were unable to see certain baseball telecasts 
aired by CBS on KPIX-TV locally, although the games aired on stations in 
markets adjacent to the Bay Area. In 1963, KPIX pre-empted the July 13 
game between the San Francisco Giants–Philadelphia Phillies (at 10:15 a.m.),[18] 
and the Los Angeles Dodgers-Phillies game on July 14 (at 9:30 a.m.); in 
1964, the station pre-empted the Kansas City Athletics–New York Yankees 
game on May 16 (at 10:45) and the Milwaukee Braves–St. Louis Cardinals 
game on May 17. All four games did air on NBC affiliate KSBW in Salinas, 
KXTV in Sacramento and ABC affiliate KHSL-TV in Chico (the games also aired 
on KOLO-TV in Reno, Nevada, however it joined the two July 1963 games in 
progress, at 10:25 and 9:55 a.m. on the respective dates). By 1964,[19] 
CBS' Dean and Reese called games from Yankee Stadium, Wrigley Field, St. 
Louis, Philadelphia and Baltimore. The New York Yankees got a $550,000 
share of CBS' $895,000. Six clubs that exclusively played nationally televised 
games on NBC were paid $1.2 million. The theme music used on the CBS telecasts 
during this era was a Dixieland styled rendition of "Take Me Out to the 
Ballgame". In 1966, the New York Yankees, which in the year prior played 
21 Games of the Week for CBS (which had actually just purchased the Yankees[20]), 
joined NBC's television package. The new package under NBC called for 28 
games compared to the 123 aired across the three networks in 1960. On December 
14, 1988,[22] CBS (under the guidance of Commissioner Peter Ueberroth,[23][24][25] 
Major League Baseball's broadcast director Bryan Burns,[26][27][28] CBS 
Inc. CEO Laurence Tisch[29][30][31] as well as CBS Sports executives Neal 
Pilson and Eddie Einhorn) paid approximately US$1.8 billion[26] for exclusive 
over-the-air television rights for over four years (beginning in 1990). 
CBS paid about $265 million each year[32] for the World Series, League 
Championship Series, All-Star Game, and the Saturday Game of the Week. 
CBS replaced ABC (which had broadcast Monday and later Thursday night baseball 
games from 1976 to 1989) and NBC (which had broadcast Major League Baseball 
in some shape or form since 1947 and the Game of the Week exclusively since 
1966) as the national broadcast network television home of Major League 
Baseball.[33] It was one of the largest agreements[34] (to date) between 
the sport of baseball and the business of broadcasting. The cost of the 
deal between CBS and Major League Baseball was about 25% more[35] than 
in the previous television contract with ABC and NBC.[36] The deal with 
CBS was also intended to pay each team (26 in 1990 and then, 28 by 1993) 
$10 million a year. The network would also be paying an estimated $7.1 
million per game or $790,000 per inning, and $132,000 per out; a separate 
cable television deal would bring each team an additional $4 million. Each 
team could also cut its own deal with broadcast and cable television channels 
and radio stations to serve as their local broadcasters (for example, the 
New York Yankees signed a cable deal with MSG that would pay the team $41 
million annually for 12 years). Reportedly, after the huge television contracts 
with CBS and ESPN were signed, baseball clubs spent their excess millions 
on free agents.[37] Author and presidential speechwriter Curt Smith however, 
said that Major League Baseball's deal with CBS Sports was "sportscasting's 
Exxon Valdez." Had baseball valued national promotion provided by the Game 
of the Week, said Smith, it never would have crafted a fast-bucks plan 
that has cut off the widest viewership. "It's an obscene imbalance", Smith 
also said, "to have 175 games going to 60 percent of the country [in reference 
to Major League Baseball's corresponding cable deal with ESPN, which at 
the time was only available in about 60% of the country] and 16 games going 
to the rest." He added: "Baseball has paid a grievous price for being out 
of sight and out of mind. It's attacked the lower and middle classes that 
forms baseball's heart. . . . In the end, the advertising community has 
come to view baseball as a leper."[38] Before[39] the previous television 
contract (which ran from 1984 to 1989) with Major League Baseball was signed, 
CBS was at one point, interested in a pact which would have called for 
three interleague games airing only on Thursday nights during the season.[40] 
The proposed deal with CBS involved respectively American League East teams 
playing the National League East, and the American League West playing 
the National League West. At the end of their coverage of the 1989 World 
Series, ABC commentator Al Michaels said: A trademark of CBS' baseball 
coverage was its majestic, uplifting, and harmonious theme music[41][42] 
(which was composed by Bob Christianson and Tony Smythe). Besides the prologues 
(with the play-by-play announcer previewing the upcoming matchup) for the 
Saturday Game of the Week, the music was usually set to the opening graphic 
of an opaque rendition of the CBS Eye entering a big, waving red, white 
and blue bunting and then a smaller, unfolding red, white and blue bunting 
(over a white diamond) and floating blue banner (which usually featured 
an indicating year like for instance, "1991 World Series") complete with 
dark red Old English text. Pat O'Brien presided over[43] the World Series 
and All-Star Game telecasts, while usually delivering the prologue (normally 
set against the live scenery over the theme music). Though O'Brien would 
be joined in 1993 by co-host Andrea Joyce during the MLB All-Star Game 
and World Series. The network used the slogan "Baseball's biggest moments 
are on CBS!" to promote its regular season Game of the Week broadcasts.[44] 
The pre-game shows were titled Baseball, with the corresponding season 
tagged at the end (such as Baseball '90 and Baseball '91) for each year. 
For Pat O'Brien's prologue for Game 4 of the 1990 National League Championship 
Series, between the Cincinnati Reds and Pittsburgh Pirates, CBS used David 
Arkenstone's "Desert Ride", which would subsequently be used during Bob 
Costas' prologue for NBC's coverage of Game 6 of the 1993 NBA Finals between 
the Chicago Bulls and Phoenix Suns. During the closing credits of CBS' 
coverage of Game 4 of the 1990 World Series[45] (after the Cincinnati Reds 
swept the Oakland Athletics), CBS used James Horner's score from the end 
credits of the 1989 film Glory. A recurring theme during CBS' coverage 
of the postseason was the usage of Michael Kamen's "Overture" from Robin 
Hood: Prince of Thieves. From start to finish, an audio montage of baseball's 
most memorable moments played over it, followed by a video and music (with 
no narration) recap of both League Championship Series and the World Series 
from 1991 to 1993. The "Training" cue from Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves 
was played against an all slow-motion montage of the entire series. As 
Tim McCarver recapped the first six games of the 1991 World Series before 
Game 7, CBS used Hans Zimmer's "Fighting 17th" from the movie Backdraft 
for the soundtrack. During Pat O'Brien's prologue for CBS' coverage of 
the 1992 Major League Baseball All-Star Game,[46] Ennio Morricone's theme 
from the 1987 film The Untouchables was used. CBS previously used this 
particular theme for the prologue of their 1990 National League Championship 
Series[47] coverage. NBC would subsequently used Morricone's theme during 
the closing credits for their coverage of Game 6 of the 2000 American League 
Championship Series (their final Major League Baseball broadcast to date). 
During Pat O'Brien's prologue for Game 1 of the 1991 American League Championship 
Series between the Minnesota Twins and Toronto Blue Jays[48] and Dick Stockton's 
prologue for Game 5 of the 1992 American League Championship Series between 
the Toronto Blue Jays and Oakland Athletics,[49] CBS used "In Celebration 
of Man" by Yanni, which is now known for being the theme music for NBC's 
U.S. Open golf coverage. Also during CBS' 1992 ALCS coverage, CBS enlisted 
the cast of Sesame Street such as Big Bird,[50] Oscar the Grouch and Telly 
Monster to help with the intros. During the 1993 All-Star Game and postseason, 
highlights of past All-Star Games and postseason moments were scored using 
the John Williams composed theme[51] from the movie Jurassic Park. Also 
during the commercial breaks of the 1993 All-Star Game, CBS provided a 
snippet of Don Henley's "The Boys of Summer". Van Halen's "Right Now" was 
used during the opening for the network's coverage of Game 4 of the 1993 
American League Championship Series[52] between the Toronto Blue Jays and 
Chicago White Sox. During the prologue for Game 1 of the 1993 World Series, 
CBS used Hans Zimmer's "The Walk Home" from the movie Cool Runnings. During 
the prologue for Game 6 of the 1993 World Series[53] (CBS' final Major 
League Baseball telecast to date), they used Jerry Goldsmith's "Tryouts" 
from the movie Rudy. Meanwhile, during the closing credits for Game 6 of 
the 1993 World Series, they used Bob Seger's "The Famous Final Scene" followed 
by Billy Joel's "Famous Last Words".[54] CBS for the most part, bypassed 
the division and pennant races. Instead, its schedule focused on games 
featuring major-market teams, regardless of their record. Major League 
Baseball's four-season tenure with CBS (1990–1993) was marred by turmoil 
and shortcomings[55] throughout.[56] The original plan was for Brent Musburger[57] 
to be the primary play-by-play announcer for CBS' baseball telecasts (thus, 
having the tasks of calling the All-Star Game, National League Championship 
Series and World Series), with veteran broadcaster and lead CBS Radio baseball 
voice Jack Buck to serve as the secondary announcer[58] (which would involve 
calling a second weekly game and the American League Championship Series). 
Former ABC color commentator Tim McCarver[59][60] was hired by CBS to be 
Musburger's partner while NBC's Jim Kaat[61] was hired to be Buck's. However, 
weeks before CBS was to debut its MLB coverage, on April 1, 1990, Musburger 
was fired[62] by the network over what CBS perceived to be a power grab 
by Musburger in taking on the assignment[63] (at the time, Musburger was 
CBS' lead college basketball announcer, host of The NFL Today, and was 
the main studio host for the NBA and had felt that he had been given too 
many broadcasting assignments[64] by the network). With Musburger's firing, 
Buck was moved up to the primary announcing team alongside McCarver. His 
position as backup announcer alongside Kaat was taken by CBS' lead NBA 
announcer, Dick Stockton.[65][66] Studio host Greg Gumbel took over for 
Stockton as the secondary play-by-play announcer in 1993. Gumbel was in 
return, replaced by Andrea Joyce, who served as a field reporter for the 
first three seasons of CBS' coverage. On the teaming of Buck and McCarver, 
Broadcasting magazine wrote "The network has exclusivity, much rides on 
them." Joining the team of Buck and McCarver was Lesley Visser (who was, 
incidentally, married to the aforementioned Dick Stockton), became the 
first woman to cover the World Series in 1990. Meanwhile, Jim Kaat earned 
rave reviews for his role as CBS' backup analyst (which flashed a considerable 
"good-guy air"). Ron Bergman wrote of Kaat's performance during the 1990 
ALCS, "This was a night for pitchers to excel. Dave Stewart. Roger Clemens. 
Jim Kaat [on commentary]." Despite the rave reviews, Jim Kaat admitted 
that he was frustrated. He felt that at that point and time, the idea of 
figuring out what to talk about during a three-hour broadcast had become 
intimidating. As a result, Kaat would bring notes into the booth, but in 
the process, found himself providing too much detail. He ultimately confided 
in his broadcasting partner, Dick Stockton, that he wanted to work without 
notes. So Stockton hooked Kaat up with then-lead NFL on CBS color commentator, 
John Madden for a telephone seminar. Madden said if he brought notes into 
the booth he felt compelled to use them and would "force" something into 
a telecast. On his seminar with John Madden, Jim Kaat said "Then John told 
me if he did his homework it would be stored in his memory bank. And if 
it is important it will come out. If it doesn't, it probably wasn't that 
important." A mildly notorious moment came during CBS' coverage of the 
1990 All-Star Game from Wrigley Field in Chicago. In a game that was marred 
by rain delays for a combined 85 minutes (including a 68-minute monsoon 
during the 7th inning[67]), CBS annoyed many diehard fans by airing the 
William Shatner-hosted reality series Rescue 911[68] during the delay. 
The 1990 postseason started on a Thursday, while World Series started on 
a Tuesday due to the brief lockout. Major League Baseball and CBS went 
with some rather unconventional scheduling during the LCS round, with two 
consecutive scheduled off-days[69] in the NLCS[70] after Game 2. After 
NBC lost the Major League Baseball package to CBS, the network aggressively 
counterprogrammed[71][72] CBS' postseason baseball coverage with made-for-TV 
movies and miniseries geared towards female viewers.[73] CBS' first year 
of Major League Baseball postseason coverage in general, proved to be problematic 
for the network. First and foremost, none of the teams involved in the 
ALCS (Boston and Oakland), NLCS (Cincinnati and Pittsburgh[74]), and World 
Series (Cincinnati and Oakland) involved teams from baseball's largest 
media markets.[75] This more than likely, helped reduce playoff ratings 
by 9.4% for prime time games and 3.4% for weekend daytime games. This was 
below the levels of the playoffs the year before, when they aired on NBC. 
While the ratings for the 1990 World Series improved to 26.2 compared to 
1989, the 1989 Series (which aired on ABC) was interrupted for 10 days 
by the Loma Prieta earthquake. All in all, the 1989 World Series was at 
the time, the lowest rated World Series ever. More to the point, the ratings 
for the 1990 World Series on CBS were significantly lower than any World 
Series between 1982 and 1988. Although the 1990 NLCS lasted six games, 
that year's ALCS and more importantly, the World Series, lasted only four[76] 
out of seven possible games. To put things into proper perspective, by 
one estimate, CBS lost $5 million for each playoff game not played and 
US$15.4 million for each World Series game not played. At the end of the 
day, CBS lost $12 million to $15 million on each of the League Championship 
Series and World Series games not played, for a total of $36 million to 
$45 million. CBS initially did not want to start their 1990 coverage[77] 
until after the network had aired that year's NBA Finals (which was the 
last time CBS aired the Finals before the NBA's move to NBC[78]). Therefore, 
only 12 regular season telecasts were scheduled[22][79] The broadcasts 
would have been each Saturday from June 16 through August 25 and a special 
Sunday telecast on the weekend of August 11–12 (the New York Yankees against 
the Oakland Athletics in Oakland on both days). Ultimately, four more telecasts 
were added – two in April[80] and two on the last two Saturdays of the 
season. After sustaining huge losses[81][82] (CBS claimed to have lost 
about $55 million in after-taxes revenue in 1990,[83] which would go up 
to $170 million at the end of its four-year contract) from 1990's abbreviated 
postseason (which ended with the Cincinnati Reds shockingly sweeping the 
defending World Champion Oakland Athletics in the World Series), CBS made 
several notable adjustments for 1991. Regular season telecasts were reduced 
to a meager handful. In return, pregame shows during the League Championship 
Series were entirely eliminated, to minimize the ratings damage. The 1991 
season was perhaps most noteworthy for CBS having the opportunity of covering 
of the now legendary World Series[84] between the Minnesota Twins and Atlanta 
Braves. The tightly contested, seven-game affair[85] between Minnesota 
and Atlanta earned CBS the highest ratings for a World Series since the 
1986 World Series between the New York Mets and Boston Red Sox on NBC. 
Earlier in the postseason, CBS' coverage of the ALCS meant that they could 
not carry the live testimony of Clarence Thomas, whose confirmation to 
the United States Supreme Court was put into question because of charges 
of sexual harassment from former staffer Anita Hill. Meanwhile, ABC, NBC, 
CNN and PBS all carried the testimony. As CBS' baseball coverage[86][87][88][89] 
progressed, the network dropped its 8:00 p.m. pregame coverage[90] (in 
favor of airing sitcoms such as Evening Shade), before finally starting 
their coverage at 8:30 p.m. Eastern Time. The first pitch would generally 
arrive at approximately 8:45 p.m. Perhaps as a result, Joe Carter's World 
Series clinching home run off Mitch Williams in 1993, occurred at 12:00 a.m. 
on the East Coast. After two years of calling baseball telecasts for CBS,[91] 
Jack Buck was dismissed in December 1991. According to the radio veteran 
Buck, he had a hard time adjusting to the demands of a more constricting 
television production.[92] CBS felt that Buck should have done more to 
make himself appear to be a set-up man for lead analyst Tim McCarver.[93] 
Jack Buck's son Joe tried to rationalize his father's on-air problems by 
saying "My dad was brought up in the golden age of radio, I think he had 
his hands tied somewhat, being accustomed to the freedom of radio.[94] 
I'm more used to acquiescing to what the producer wants to do, what the 
director wants to do." Buck himself sized up CBS' handling of the announcers 
by saying "CBS never got that baseball play-by-play draws word-pictures. 
All they knew was that football stars analysts. So they said, 'Let [analyst 
Tim] McCarver run the show.' In television, all they want you to do is 
shut up. I'm not very good at shutting up." Buck though, would add that 
although he knew Tim McCarver well, they never developed a good relationship 
with each other on the air despite high hopes to the contrary. Phil Mushnick 
added insult to injury to Buck by accusing him of "trying to predict plays, 
as if to prove he was still on top." My biggest problem was understanding 
my role. They wanted him to dominate the broadcast and have me be the mechanic 
and stay out of the way. I didn't want to broadcast that way. I guess I 
should have accepted it, but relying on my experience on GrandStand (NBC's 
NFL pregame show that Buck hosted in 1975) when I had not challenged anyone, 
I couldn't let others make all the decisions that put me in a position 
where I couldn't perform at all. Buck also got into deep trouble with CBS 
executives (namely executive producer Ted Shaker) over questionable comments 
made towards singer Bobby Vinton in 1990. While on-air prior to Game 4 
of the that year's NLCS in Pittsburgh, Buck criticized Vinton's off-key 
rendition of "The Star-Spangled Banner", making a comment towards Vinton 
that sounded like a prejudicial remark centered on his Polish heritage.[96] 
Joe Buck believed that the situation was ironic because his father was 
"trying to help the guy." Buck began receiving death threats from Pirate 
fans and discovered a footprint on his pillow once he returned to his hotel 
room. Buck's replacement was Boston Red Sox announcer Sean McDonough.[97] 
Ted Shaker called McDonough about his interests for the top announcing 
job, and after McDonough hung up the telephone, he claimed that he did 
not want to "act like a 10-year-old" but he "jumped so high that he put 
a hole in his ceiling." McDonough, who was 30 years old at the time, became 
the youngest full-time network announcer to call a World Series when he 
called that year's Fall Classic alongside McCarver. For CBS' coverage of 
the 1992 All-Star Game,[98][99] they introduced Basecam,[100] a lipstick-size 
camera, inside first base. Over the course of Game 2 of the 1992 ALCS, 
Jim Kaat was stricken with a bad case of laryngitis.[101] As a result, 
Johnny Bench had to come over from the CBS Radio booth and finish the game 
with Dick Stockton as a "relief analyst."[102] There was talk that if Kaat's 
laryngitis did not get better, Don Drysdale was going to replace Kaat on 
television for Game 3, while Bench would continue to work on CBS Radio. 
Tim McCarver ran afoul of Atlanta Braves outfielder Deion Sanders during 
the 1992 postseason,[103][104] when he made comments on-air criticizing 
Sanders for his two-sport athletic career; Sanders was playing for both 
the Braves and the NFL's Atlanta Falcons at the time and participated in 
both the baseball postseason and the early NFL regular season for the first 
time in 1992 (Sanders was unable to do this in 1991, as his NFL contract 
with the Falcons would not allow him to). Sanders retaliated following 
Game 7 of the NLCS[105] by dumping a bucket of ice water on McCarver (who 
was wired for sound and feared electrocution). McCarver was not immune 
to criticism from outside sources, either, as Norman Chad wrote a critique 
of him in Sports Illustrated during the postseason. Chad said that McCarver 
was someone who "when you ask him the time, will tell you how a watch works", 
a reference to McCarver's perceived tendency to overanalyze things. Chad 
went further by saying "What's the difference between Tim McCarver and 
appendicitis? Appendicitis is covered by most health plans." McCarver was 
also known to make gaffes from time to time. One of his more amusing miscues 
came during the 1992 National League Championship Series when he repeatedly 
referred to Pittsburgh Pirates pitcher Tim Wakefield as "Bill Wakefield." 
He finally explained that Bill Wakefield was one of his old minor-league 
teammates, and he laughed at himself because "I forgot my own name!" The 
year prior, during Game 6 of the World Series, McCarver's broadcast colleague, 
Jack Buck talked about Atlanta third baseman Terry Pendleton, who hit .367 
in the series. Buck said, "TP. That's what his teammates call him." A few 
seconds later, McCarver rather oddly added, "TP. An appropriate name for 
someone who plays on the Braves."[106] During the 1992 postseason, CBS 
missed covering one of the three debates[107] among U.S. presidential candidates 
George H. W. Bush, Bill Clinton and H. Ross Perot. The network had planned 
to join other broadcast and cable networks in the telecast; however, Game 
4 of the ALCS between the Toronto Blue Jays and Oakland Athletics did not 
end until 8:30 p.m. Eastern Time, about the time the debate ended. The 
Blue Jays won the game 7-6 in 11 innings. The other networks reported very 
good ratings for the debate, part of one of the more compelling election 
campaigns in recent times. The CBS telecasts of the 1992 and 1993 Series 
(both involving the Toronto Blue Jays) were simulcast on CTV.[108] in Canada. 
During this period, CTV produced their own pregame shows[109][110] rather 
than simply taking the United States feed from CBS.[111] Rod Black and 
Rob Faulds hosted CTV's pregame coverage, with CBS' Tim McCarver providing 
some additional pregame analysis. Lesley Visser missed the first half of 
the 1993 season due to injuries earlier suffered in a bizarre jogging accident 
in New York City's Central Park. Visser broke her hip and skidded face-first 
across the pavement, requiring reconstructive plastic surgery on her face 
and more than a decade later required an artificial hip replacement. She 
missed the Major League Baseball All-Star Game.[112][113] Jim Kaat would 
replace her while she recuperated. Jim Gray also served as a reporter for 
the All-Star Game[114][115] and World Series. For 1993, CBS made a broadcast 
booth change by removing Dick Stockton from his role as secondary play-by-play 
announcer after three seasons, and replacing him with Greg Gumbel. As previously 
mentioned, also during the 1993 season, Andrea Joyce replaced Gumbel[94] 
as studio host. Joyce would be joined at the anchor desk by Pat O'Brien. 
At the 1993 World Series, she became the first woman to co-host the network 
television coverage for a World Series. Sean McDonough filled in for O'Brien, 
who was suffering from laryngitis,[116] as the pregame host for Game 6 
of the 1993 National League Championship Series. During CBS' coverage of 
the World Series,[117] umpires were upset with the overhead[118][119] replays 
being televised by CBS. Dave Phillips, the crew chief, said just prior 
to Game 2 that the umpires want "CBS to be fair with their approach." Rick 
Gentile,[120] senior vice president for production for CBS Sports, said 
that Richie Phillips, the lawyer for the Major League Umpires Association, 
tried to call the broadcast booth during Saturday's game, but the call 
was not put through. Richie Phillips apparently was upset when Dave Phillips 
called the Philadelphia Phillies' Ricky Jordan out on strikes in the fourth 
inning, and a replay showed the pitch to be about 6 inches outside. National 
League President Bill White, while using a CBS headset in the broadcast 
booth during Game 1, was overheard telling Gentile and the producer Bob 
Dekas, "You guys keep using that camera the way you want. Don't let Phillips 
intimidate you." The final Major League Baseball game that CBS has televised 
to date was Game 6 of the 1993 World Series on October 23.[121][122] Before 
Major League Baseball decided to seek the services of other networks, CBS 
offered US$120 million in annual rights fees over a two-year period,[123][124][125] 
as well as advertising revenues in excess of $150 million a season. You 
know as Tony Kubek once said about Mickey Mantle "Just as he was learning 
to say hello, he was saying goodbye!" This is kind of the way we feel here 
at CBS Sports. It doesn't seem possible that our four years as the caretaker 
of the "National Pastime" are over, but here we are...saying goodbye. And 
in that short time, not only did we have probably one of the greatest World 
Series ever between Atlanta and Minnesota, the seven gamer, we had also 
had arguably, one of the greatest World Series games the other night. And 
folks, how about this one tonight!? In all, and you're looking at them 
now, a lot of memories...a lot of good memories! And we hoped that you 
cherish these pictures and these sounds as much as we enjoyed bringing 
them right into your homes. Time to say goodbye, but knowing full well...that 
the grand ol' game will never say goodbye! It's just keeps rolling up...the 
memories![126] For all of us here at CBS Sports, I'm Pat O'Brien thank 
you...for watching and...goodnight everybody! Shortly after the start of 
the 1994–95 Major League Baseball strike,[127] Stanford University's Roger 
Noll[128] argued that the Baseball Network deal (and the bargain-basement 
ESPN cable renewal, which went from $100 million to $42 million because 
of their losses) reflected "poor business judgment on the part of management 
about the long-run attractiveness of their product to national broadcasters." 
He added that the $140 million that owners expected to share for the 1994 
season (before the strike) from TBN was underestimated by "one-third to 
one-half" and fell below the annual average of $165 million needed to renew 
the TBN deal after two years. Meanwhile, Andy Zimbalist, author of Baseball 
and Billions, and a players' union consulting economist, insisted that 
baseball "could have done better than the TBN deal with some combination 
of CBS (which as previously mentioned, offered $120 million last-ditch 
bid for renewal), Fox and TBS. Baseball shut out CBS and could have waited 
longer before closing them out." In October 1995, when it was a known fact 
that ABC and NBC were going to end their television deal/joint venture 
with Major League Baseball, preliminary talks[129] arose about CBS resuming 
its role as the league's national over-the-air broadcaster.[130] It was 
rumored that CBS would show Thursday night games[131][132] (more specifically, 
a package of West Coast interleague games scheduled for the 11:30 p.m. 
Eastern/8:30 Pacific Time slot) while Fox would show Saturday afternoon 
games. CBS and Fox were also rumored to share rights to the postseason. 
In the end however, CBS' involvement did not come to pass and NBC became 
Fox's over-the-air national television partners. Whereas each team earned 
about $14 million in 1990 under CBS, the later television agreement with 
NBC and Fox beginning in 1996 earned each team about $6.8 million.[133] 
In the end, CBS wound up losing approximately half a billion dollars[134][135][136] 
from their television contract with Major League Baseball. CBS repeatedly 
asked Major League Baseball for a rebate,[137] however the league was not 
willing to do this. According to Curt Smith's book The Voice – Mel Allen's 
Untold Story, one CBS executive wore a St. Louis Cardinals cap at a 1988 
Christmas party. However, by 1992, pining to shed baseball, that same executive 
wore a cap styled "One More Year." CBS alienated[138] and confused fans 
with its sporadic treatment of regular season telecasts.[139] With a sense 
of true continuity destroyed, fans eventually figured that they could not 
count on the network to satisfy their needs (thus, poor ratings were a 
result). CBS televised about 16 regular season Saturday afternoon games 
(not counting back-up telecasts) which was 14 less than what NBC televised 
during the previous contract. According to Commissioner Peter Ueberroth, 
the reason for the reduction in regular season telecasts was in order for 
teams to sell them locally in order to make a direct profit.[26] CBS used 
the strategy of broadcasting only a select amount of games in order to 
build a demand in response to supposedly sagging ratings. In theory, the 
limited regular season package would require the network to sell less advertising 
during the year so it can charge more for its postseason events.[140] In 
response to this, NBC Sports chairman Dick Ebersol grinned "I assume [its] 
baseball strategy has to be a big disappointment." Counting the All-Star 
Game, both League Championship Series and the World Series, CBS would have 
televised just 38 games.[141] This comes on the account of both League 
Championship Series and the World Series going to a full seven games. Ebersol 
criticized Peter Ueberroth for negotiating the four-year, $1.06 billion 
deal with CBS. According to Ebersol, Ueberroth was totally focused on business. 
Ebersol said "Ueberroth wanted his legacy to be the maximum amount of money. 
Baseball got this enormous overbid with CBS, coupled with expanding the 
cable package (on ESPN) from zero to four nights a week. Now, when they 
find themselves in trouble, they've got no place to expand. There just 
wasn't a lot of foresight. (Baseball was) just looking for the big score."[142] 
In their first year in 1990,[143] CBS Sports had a pretty loaded schedule[144] 
(much came at the expense of the regular season baseball coverage): the 
NBA Playoffs (the 1989–90 season marked CBS' final year with the NBA before 
the over-the-air package moved over to NBC), College World Series and college 
football (like the NBA, CBS would lose the College Football Association 
(CFA) package soon after being awarded the Major League Baseball contract). 
CBS never scheduled baseball on Masters weekend, and seldom on other weekends 
when it was scheduled to air a PGA Tour event. It was around this time 
that CBS started expanding its weekend coverage from two hours to three 
on weekends when there was no baseball, generally from 3:00 to 6:00 p.m. 
Eastern Time. Most of its baseball dates landed on weeks when other networks 
covered golf. Marv Albert, who hosted NBC's baseball pregame show for many 
years said about CBS' baseball coverage "You wouldn't see a game for a 
month. Then you didn't know when CBS came back on." Sports Illustrated 
joked that CBS stood for "Covers Baseball Sporadically". USA Today added 
that Jack Buck and Tim McCarver "may have to have a reunion before [their] 
telecast." Mike Lupica of the New York Daily News took it a step further 
by calling CBS' baseball deal "the Vietnam of sports television." NBC play-by-play 
announcer Bob Costas believed that the fact that a large bulk of the regular 
season coverage ended up on cable (namely, ESPN[145]) beginning in the 
1990s was because CBS, when it took over the MLB the television rights 
from NBC in 1990, did not really want the Saturday Game of the Week. Many 
fans who did not appreciate CBS' approach to scheduling regular season 
baseball games[139] believed that they were only truly after the marquee 
events (namely, the All-Star Game, League Championship Series and the World 
Series) in order to sell advertising space (especially the fall entertainment 
television schedule[26][139][146][147]). The Toronto Blue Jays were in 
back-to-back World Series in their championship seasons of 1992 and 1993, 
as well as the 1991 ALCS. All of CBS's postseason telecasts were simulcast 
on CTV (which earned CBS approximately $7.5 million per year) in Canada, 
and received very high ratings north of the border when the Jays were involved. 
Unfortunately, Canada does not factor in the Nielsen ratings so as a consequence, 
CBS earned the lowest ratings in over 20 years for a World Series (not 
counting the earthquake interrupted 1989 World Series that was televised 
by ABC). In any other World Series, viewership would have likely been higher 
since two American teams would have been involved, to say nothing of spikes 
to off-the-chart ratings shares in the two competing cities (especially 
in 1991 when CBS was fortunate to cover the riveting, ultra intense, seven-game 
battle between the Minnesota Twins and Atlanta Braves). Another reason 
behind the poor ratings likely had to do with the gradual attrition of 
the audience for almost all network programming. The country at the time 
to the deal was going through a recession.[148] More to the point, in 1990, 
CBS had asked for about $300,000 for 30-second spots during the World Series, 
but ended up filling some of its inventory for just $240,000. CBS could 
not properly maximize the deal because the Division Series had not yet 
been created (thus automatically giving CBS more games to carry) and the 
network did not have a cable outlet to air some of the games (like Fox 
would eventually have with Fox Sports Net). In reality, it competed with 
ESPN and local broadcasts outside of CBS' broadcast window. More postseason 
games could have increased the advertising inventory.[146] Both ABC and 
NBC lost money on their in-season games the last three years of their respective 
Major League Baseball television contracts (1987–1989). CBS simply made 
far too high of a bid[22][149][150] (especially for a network that wound 
up frustrating fans with its lack of regular season coverage) and sustained 
a shortfall in advertising revenue. Perhaps it is somewhat ironic that 
back in 1987, CBS Sports president Neal Pilson[151] said of ABC's then 
ongoing contract with Major League Baseball "Three years ago, we believed 
ABC's package was overpriced by $175 million. We still believe it's overpriced 
by $175 million."[152] Whereas from 1976 to 1989, ABC split the television 
contract with NBC, and therefore logically, split the financial risks, 
CBS in sharp contrast, aggressively negotiated exclusive postseason rights. 
In December 1988, Arthur Watson, the president of NBC Sports, criticized 
CBS saying "We made every effort to keep it. Regretfully, someone bid far 
more than was responsible. Everybody evaluates things differently. That 
bid was beyond our reach. Let them explain that bid."[153] For their inaugural 
season in 1990, CBS lost between US$75 million and $80 million[154] More 
to the point, CBS took a $55-million after-tax[155] loss for its 1990 playoff 
and World Series coverage and a $115 million charge against earnings in 
the fourth quarter for losses during the remaining three years of its $1.06 
billion contract.[156] In 1991, it cost CBS $4.8 million per game in venue 
productions alone to televise the National League Championship Series, 
not including studio backup operations or the satellite time needed to 
transmit the game to New York City for broadcast on their network frequencies. 
The American League Championship Series (between the Minnesota Twins and 
Toronto Blue Jays) was another problem because of the tariffs and labor 
laws they had to endure going into Canada. CBS averaged $1.9 to $2.4 million[157] 
per regular season game. In return, it was typical for the production cost 
to double come playoff time. Ultimately, CBS reported a loss of around 
$169 million in the third quarter of 1991. A drop of in advertiser interest 
caused revenue from the sale of ads during CBS' baseball telecasts to plummet. 
All the while, CBS was still contractually obligated to pay Major League 
Baseball around $260 million a year through 1993.[158] When the contract 
with CBS ends [in 1993], no network is ever going to pay that much money 
again. The owners, who threw away all the television money, most on bad 
ballplayers, in the first 15 minutes after the checks cleared, are going 
to ask the players for a giveback. And the players, who have every reason 
to believe the owners are rich idiots, are going to laugh at them. [159] 
Everyone at CBS who cared about baseball felt like they went through hell 
with it. The overall revenues of the game have more than doubled since 
the early 1990s. The problem isn't that the game has insufficient popularity 
or revenues, the problem is that the game has an imperfect economic system, 
which often renders any amount of revenue, in the long run, inadequate. 
You know, they get another source of revenue and they flush it right down 
the drain. Look what happened when NBC lost baseball in the late 1980s. 
CBS comes in with this enormous deal for baseball, so the revenues are 
exponentially increased, but they frittered it all away immediately when 
the salary structure just immediately exploded right after that. At that 
time the top paid player made about $2 million a year. Within a couple 
of years you had dozens and dozens of players making $5 million a year. 
If you're Polish and you're from Pittsburgh, you can do anything you want 
with the words. Fly ball into deep, deep center field, McGee going back...it's 
going to go!!! You would think they had just won the World Series! That 
ball is...FAIR!!! Cincinnati's ahead two games to none!!! (Billy) Hatcher 
flies to right field and (José) Canseco can't get it! It's off his glove...Hatcher's 
gonna end up at third! Cincinnati, the champions of baseball for 1990...with 
an improbable sweep over Oakland!!! And here's a flyball hit to right field, 
this may do it...Justice is back...it's over!!! The Braves win it!!![160] 
Robby Thompson gets to it...In Atlanta let the celebration begin!!! And 
the Minnesota Twins have gone from the cellar to the penthouse in the American 
League! And John Smoltz has pitched Atlanta into the World Series![161] 
That's going to be a winner for Atlanta!!! The runner tags at third, here's 
the throw from Mack, here's Lemke...he is out..safe, safe, safe[162]!!! 
They called him safe! Atlanta wins and they're going to say that Harper 
did not tag him! Into deep left-center, for Mitchell...and we'll see you...TOMORROW 
NIGHT![163] The play is to home! Out there...out there!!! Atlanta hasn't 
scored in ten innings against Jack Morris! The Twins are going to win the 
World Series!!! The Twins have won it! It's a base hit! It's a 1-0 10th 
inning victory!'[164] Deep to left...and there goes Ron Gant's first ever 
grand slam! And a drive hit to right field, Sierra going back, looking 
up...and this game is tied, Roberto Alomar! High fly ball, toward the line 
in left, calling for it is Maldonado, and the Blue Jays have finally won 
the pennant! Line-drive and a base-hit!!! Justice has scored the tying 
run, Bream to the plate...and he is... SAFE!! SAFE AT THE PLATE!!! The 
Braves go to the World Series! Well hit to left field to the wall Deion 
Sanders, home run Ed Sprague! Off the bench with a pinch hit two run homer 
off Jeff Reardon to give the Toronto Blue Jays a 5-4 lead! The runners 
go on the 3-and-2 to Winfield...down the line, a base hit into the left-field 
corner! White has scored, Alomar comes around...The ball gets away from 
Gant...It's a two-run double for Dave Winfield, and a 4-2 Toronto lead! 
Timlin...Nixon bunts, Timlin on it, throws to first...for the first time 
in history, the World Championship banner will fly north of the border! 
The Toronto Blue Jays are baseball's best in 1992! Fair ball, into the 
left field corner! Kruk around to score and Kim Batiste goes from goat 
to hero in a matter of minutes! Hit in the air to right field, Carter has 
room... And the Blue Jays are going back to the World Series! The payoff 
pitch...He struck him out! And the Philadelphia Phillies have won the National 
League pennant! Henderson to the plate with the go-ahead run!!! In Canada, 
when you say PM they think of Prime Minister, but now they might start 
thinking Paul Molitor! Well-hit down the left-field line! Way back and 
GONE! Joe Carter with a three-run homer! The winners and still world champions, 
the Toronto Blue Jays! On the July 2, 2011 edition of CBS Sports Spectacular, 
TBS' Atlanta-based Major League Baseball studio crew of Matt Winer, Dennis 
Eckersley, Cal Ripken, Jr. and David Wells presented a 2011 Major League 
Baseball midseason report.[166] This was followed by MLB 2011: Down the 
Stretch, which aired on September 24.[167] CBS Sports and Turner Sports 
have also partnered on coverage of the NCAA Men's Division I Basketball 
Tournament and in the past, on the Winter Olympics in 1992, 1994 and 1998. 
On August 29, 2012, The New York Times reported a potential alliance between 
CBS and TBS[168] on a Major League Baseball television contract beginning 
in 2014.[169] According to the Times report, CBS "would most likely want 
only the All-Star Game and World Series," an arrangement almost similar 
to the one NBC had with Major League Baseball from 1996 to 2000. On September 
19, 2012, Sports Business Daily[170][171] reported that Major League Baseball 
would agree to separate eight-year television deals[172] with Fox Sports 
and Turner Sports[173] through the 2021 season. On May 19, 2015, CBS Sports 
Network[174] resurrected CBS Sports' Major League Baseball theme music[175] 
for the first time since Game 6 of the 1993 World Series for the American 
Athletic Conference Championship.[176] Under the terms of the package, 
CBS Sports Network would air three Houston Baseball games in 2015, as well 
as the first two contests of the 2015 American Athletic Conference Baseball 
Championship. Carter Blackburn provided play-by-play for all seven games 
of the package, while analyst duties would be handled Darryl Hamilton and 
