The Major League Baseball (MLB) season schedule consists of 162 games for 
each of the 30 teams in the American League (AL) and National League (NL), 
played over approximately six months—a total of 2,430 games, plus the postseason. 
The regular season typically runs from early April to late September, followed 
by the postseason in October. The season begins with the official Opening 
Day and runs 26 weeks through the last Sunday of September or first Sunday 
of October. One or more International Opener games may be scheduled outside 
the United States before the official Opening Day.[1] It is possible for 
a given team to play a maximum of 20 games in the postseason in a given 
year, provided the team is a wild card and advances to each of the Division 
Series, Championship Series, and World Series with each series going the 
distance (5 games in the Division Series, 7 games in the League Championship 
Series/World Series). The regular season is constructed from series. Due 
to travel concerns and the sheer number of games, pairs of teams are never 
scheduled to play single games against each other (except in the instance 
of making up a postponed game); instead they play games on several consecutive 
days in the same ballpark. Most often the series are of three or four games, 
but two-game series are also scheduled. With only one exception, teams 
play one mid-week series and one weekend series per week for a total of 
52 series per year (24 divisional series, 20 inter-divisional series, 8 
inter-league series). Depending on the length of the series, mid-week series 
games are usually scheduled between Monday and Thursday, while weekend 
games are scheduled between Thursday and Monday. Due to the mid-week all-star 
break in July, teams are scheduled to play two two-game series between 
Monday and Thursday of another week, called a four-game "split" series, 
with two games in one team's ballpark, then two games in the other's to 
complete the 52-series schedule. A team's road games are usually grouped 
into a multi-series road trip; home series are grouped into homestands. 
Until the early 20th century,[clarification needed] Sunday games were not 
played. Since then,[when?] each week each team is typically scheduled to 
play a series over the weekend (Friday-Saturday-Sunday) and a series during 
the week. Not every team plays every day—Mondays and Thursdays sometimes 
serve as off-days for particular teams—but there are some games every day, 
except during the All-Star break. Note that rainouts and other cancellations 
are often rescheduled in an ad hoc way during the season—sometimes as doubleheaders—and 
occasionally not made up at all. In the latter instance, two teams are 
scheduled to meet for the final time in the season and it is the 2nd to 
last week. However, there is a rainstorm and the game is simply cancelled 
if it doesn't affect the divisional or wild card races. For example, the 
September 22 game between the Minnesota Twins and Detroit Tigers is cancelled 
due to rain because the teams can't reschedule a make-up date before the 
end of the season on October 2, 2016 and it doesn't affect the divisional 
race between Kansas City and Chicago. In contrast, a 2008 AL Central division 
game between Chicago and Detroit needed to be made up following the last 
day of the regular season because it affected a division race vs Minnesota. 
This account gives the length of the major league "championship season" 
schedule by league and year. It does not cover the curtailment of play 
by war (1918) or by strikes and lockouts (1972, 1981, 1994). The schedules 
for 1995 were revised and shortened from 162 to 144 games, after late resolution 
of the strike that had begun in 1994 required a delay in the season to 
accommodate limited spring training. The listed years are those in which 
the league revised its schedule. For example, the National League (NL) 
scheduled 84 games during 1879, 1880, 1881, and 1882 – that is, four seasons 
from 1879, ending before 1883, the next listing. 1876 is listed here for 
convenience although the NL did not schedule games (see 1871 to 1876, below). 
1882 – 1891 Thus the AA expanded its schedule to 140 games two years before 
the National League did so. After 1891 four AA clubs joined the NL and 
four were bought out, nominally creating one big league, the "National 
League and American Association" of 12 clubs. 1884 1890 1914: 1915 The 
National Association of Professional Base Ball Players (1871–1875) did 
not schedule games, nor did it control the number of teams, a major reason 
for its demise after the 1875 season. Clubs paid a $10 entry fee, later 
$20, to enter the Association for one season and thereby declare for that 
year's national championship. Without continuing membership or heavy investment 
there was little to deter a team from breaking a commitment, and though 
it happened it was mainly due to clubs going out of business. The National 
League organized for 1876 on a different basis, granting exclusive memberships 
to eight clubs that would continue from year to year — it was generally 
expected, if only because membership would be profitable. But the new league 
followed its predecessor in merely agreeing that each club would play a 
certain number of matches to a decision (excluding ties) by a certain date. 
Boston played 70 games with its quota of ten decisions against every rival. 
The others achieved 56 to 68 decisions, 64 to 66 for the four western teams 
as the teams from New York and Philadelphia (eastern) abandoned their schedule-concluding 
road trips. For all six early seasons, prior to the first league schedule 
in 1877, member clubs scheduled their own matches by mutual arrangement, 
including championship games necessarily with member clubs, other games 
with members, and games with non-member clubs. Some may have practically 
dictated their arrangements with some others, but there was no central 
control or coordination. This listing gives the greatest number of games 
played by any club for each season. Naturally, the leader by games played 
was always a strong club fielding one of the better gate attractions. The 
leading numbers of games played to a decision were 33, 54, 59, 71, 82, 
and 70 decisions; by the listed teams except the Mutuals in 1872. Since 
1998, there have been 30 major league teams with a single advance schedule 
for every season that comprises 2430 games. Each team plays 162 games, 
81 as the "home" team, 81 as the "visitor". (This is true even on the rare 
occasion when a game is played at a ballpark not home to either team.) 
Occasionally, the advance schedule is subsequently altered due to a game 
postponement or a one-game tie-breaker to determine which team will play 
in the postseason. Before 2013 the schedule included 252 "interleague games" 
that matched one team from the American League and one from the National 
League; the other 2178 games matched a pair from within one league. About 
half of the latter matched teams from within one division and about half 
matched teams from different divisions in one league. In the Central Division 
of the National League, which alone had six teams, every pair of division 
rivals played 15 or 16 games. Within the other, smaller divisions every 
pair of teams played 18 or 19 games. Division games (1091). There are 61 
pairs of teams from within one division. Other intraleague games (1087). 
There are 150 pairs of teams from two different divisions within one league. 
The schedule for interleague play comprised 84 three-game series in each 
season from 1998 to 2012, divided as six series (18 games) for each of 
fourteen AL teams and as many as six for each of sixteen NL teams. Among 
the 224 interleague pairs of teams, 11 played six games every year, which 
were scheduled in two three-game series "home and home", or one at each 
home ballpark. Five of these 11 special arrangements matched two teams 
in the same city or in neighboring cities, where they wholly or partly 
share territorial rights. Six were regional matches at greater distance, 
four of which were in the same state. These special local and regional 
series accounted for 66 interleague games annually from 1998-2012, and 
the other 186 games were determined by rotation. The 2001 season was suspended 
for one week due to the September 11 terrorist attacks and resulting disruptions 
in travel, resulting in games scheduled for September 11–16 being rescheduled 
to the first week of October and the playoffs and World Series being rescheduled 
one week later than their originally planned dates, which resulted in the 
World Series continuing into early November. Schedule changes for 2013, 
precipitated by realignment that created two equal-sized leagues of 15 
teams each, gave every team 20 interleague games.[2] Sixteen of which were 
determined by a match of divisions, one from each league; all teams in 
a given division play all teams in a given division from the other league. 
(Each plays a three-game series against four teams from the designated 
division and two two-game series against the remaining team.) The matched 
divisions rotate annually: Each team played its four other interleague 
games against a designated "natural rival", with two games in each club's 
city. Thus all 30 teams, rather than 22 of 30 as previously, were deemed 
to have a natural rival in the other league. In 2013 the natural rivalry 
games were all scheduled for May 27 to May 30 (Memorial Day weekend) but 
in 2014 their scheduled dates range from May to August. Ten of the natural 
rivalries from 2012 and earlier continued, while the Houston–Texas "Lone 
Star" rivalry had been transformed into an intra-division one with 19 games 
played. Five of the special arrangements were new in 2013 , including one 
each for Houston and Texas. For 2014, four (4) of the five (5) new rivalries 
have been revised (‡), all except Detroit and Pittsburgh. Every team now 
plays 19 games against each of 4 opponents within its division (76 games), 
and 6 or 7 games against each of 10 opponents from other divisions within 
its own league (66 games). When corresponding divisions (i.e. NL East vs. 
AL East) play each other, a slight adjustment was made to the interleague 
games. Teams now play 6 games against their rival and 3-4 games (14 total) 
against the other four teams in the opposing division. This was done in 
2015, and will next occur in 2018. Start of Major League Baseball games 
depends on days of the week, game number in series, holidays, and other 
factors. Most games start at 7pm in the local time zone, so there are more 
night games than day games even though baseball is traditionally played 
during the day. The reason why there are more night baseball games is to 
attract more fans to ballparks as well as viewers from home because most 
fans would be at work or school during the day. On Mondays (excluding Opening 
Day and holidays), Tuesdays, and Fridays, games are almost exclusively 
played at night except for Cubs home games. Getaway days are days that 
teams play their last game of the series before departing for another series 
in another city the next day are usually day games, mainly Sundays, Wednesdays, 
and Thursdays. On Sundays, usually all but one were day games with night 
games being broadcast on ESPN. Sunday day games usually start at 1pm local 
time while Sunday night baseball begins at 8pm ET regardless of city they 
play in. About half of Saturday games are day games (1, 2 or 4pm ET). Iin 
some markets, Saturday night start an hour earlier than usual night start 
times, but other cities start Saturday night games at the same time as 
weeknight games. In conclusion, weekday games are only played at night 
except for getaway days while many weekend games are played during the 
day. On Opening Day, games tend to start at 1pm local time, while Opening 
Night start at 8pm ET on ESPN the night before traditional Opening Day. 
