This article is a list of the teams that have participated in the Major 
League Baseball (MLB) postseason, the elimination tournament conducted 
after the regular season by which Major League Baseball determines its 
World Series champion for a given year. Major League Baseball's postseason 
format has evolved throughout its history, with the number of participating 
teams increasing from two (for its first six-plus decades) to the current 
10. The World Series was first played in 1903, when the champions of the 
established National League (NL) and the upstart American League (AL) met 
for a playoff series. From that time through 1968, the two leagues (which 
each had eight teams through 1960) each sent only its team with the best 
regular-season record to the World Series. In 1969, as each league had 
expanded to 12 teams, each league was divided into East and West divisions 
and another playoff round was created. This round became known as the League 
Championship Series (LCS), with the four division champions competing for 
a spot in the World Series every year. This format lasted until 1993. In 
1995, the again-expanded leagues were re-organized into three separate 
divisions, and another playoff round was established, called the Division 
Series (DS). In this format, for each league, the champions of the East, 
Central, and West divisions would be joined in the playoffs by a Wild Card 
team. The addition of the Wild Card allowed a team that was not a division 
winner but still had one of the top regular-season records to enter the 
playoffs as the number 4 seed. In 2012, the structure was adjusted such 
that two teams from each league receive Wild Card berths and then play 
a single game against each other to determine who advances to the Division 
Series. This is the current playoff format in Major League Baseball. Three 
anomalies in the above-described system occurred. In 1904, the World Series 
did not take place because the National League champion did not wish to 
participate and the leagues had not yet agreed to require their champions 
to do so. In 1981, there was a Division Series due to a split season brought 
about by a midsummer player's strike. And in 1994, the postseason did not 
take place due to a player's strike. Year in Italics with Asterisk* = Wild 
Card Game loser Year in Italics = Division Series loser Year in Roman = 
Championship Series loser Year in Bold Italics = World Series loser Year 
