Major League Baseball's drug policy—the Joint Drug Prevention and Treatment 
Program—was established by agreement between the MLB Players Association 
and the Office of the Commissioner of Baseball. The goal was to deter and 
end the use of banned substances, including anabolic steroids and other 
illegal drugs, and to "provide for, in keeping with the overall purposes 
of the Program, an orderly, systematic, and cooperative resolution of any 
disputes that may arise concerning the existence, interpretation, or application" 
of the policy itself. The Joint Drug Prevention and Treatment Program was 
adopted in the Spring of 2006. While the Health Policy Advisory Committee 
(HPAC) can make recommendations to the Office of the Commissioner regarding 
punishment, it has no power to discipline players for violations of the 
drug policy, except to place them in the appropriate treatment programs. 
Such authority belongs to the Office of the Commissioner. Under the policy, 
all players are prohibited from using, possessing, selling, facilitating 
the sale of, distributing, or facilitating the distribution of any Drug 
of Abuse and/or Steroid. Any and all drugs or substances listed under Schedule 
II of the Controlled Substances Act are considered drugs of abuse covered 
by the Program. Players who require prescription medication can still use 
it with a "Therapeutic Use Exemption" granted by the MLB. Prohibited Substances 
may be added to the list only by the unanimous vote of HPAC, provided that 
the addition by the federal government of a substance to Schedule I, II, 
or III will automatically result in that substance being added to the list. 
See List of banned substances in baseball. Testing is administered via 
scientifically-validated urine test. Each Player shall be tested upon reporting 
to spring training. All Players will be selected for an additional unannounced 
urine specimen collection on a randomly selected date. Testing for drugs 
of abuse is not administered randomly, but on a basis of reasonable cause. 
If one of the HPAC panel members has evidence that a player has used, possessed, 
or sold banned substances in the last 12 months, they call a conference 
and discuss the evidence with the other members. If a majority vote to 
test the suspected player is reached then testing will take place no more 
than 48 hours later. Drugs of abuse include natural cannabinoids (e.g., 
THC, hashish and marijuana), synthetic THC and cannabimimetics (e.g., K2 
and Spice), cocaine, LSD, opiates (e.g., oxycodone, heroin, codeine, and 
morphine), MDMA (ecstasy), GHB and phencyclidine (PCP). Players and the 
collector must instruct the player to return in an hour, during which he 
can only drink 15 oz. of fluid in a sealed container(s) certified by the 
collector. Any test conducted under the Program will be considered “positive” 
under the following circumstances: A test is considered positive if a sufficient 
amount of Steroid is present, except the presence of nandrolone, which 
is considered positive only if the level exceeds 2 ng/ml. The presence 
of a Stimulant shall be considered a positive only if the level exceeds 
250 ng/ml, unless specified otherwise below: HPAC immediately notifies 
the Player and the Club of the positive drug test result. On January 10, 
2013, MLB and the players union reached an agreement to add random, in-season 
human growth hormone and to a new test to reveal the use of testosterone. 
Testing will begin the 2013 season.[1] All players who enter the program 
are placed on the Clinical track, except when a player tests positive for 
steroids, does not comply with the initial evaluation, cooperate in his 
treatment, is convicted or pleads guilty or nolo contendere to the sale 
or use and prohibited substance, or participates in the sale or distribution 
of any banned substance. In that event, the player is placed in the Administrative 
Track. HPAC has the discretion to place a player in the Administrative 
Track in any other event, but not solely on the basis that the player is 
in an inpatient treatment program. Transfer to the Administrative track 
is contingent on a majority vote, and in the case of a tie, a fifth member 
must cast a vote based on reasonable cause and cannot consider past practice. 
These votes are tallied and set forth in progressing games Players are 
entitled to salary retention for the first 30 days they are required to 
be in inpatient treatment or outpatient treatment that forces his absence 
from the Club, and half salary retention for the next thirty days, over 
the course of his career. However, players are not entitled to salary retention 
for any such period after 60 days during the course of his career. Players 
are required to be evaluated at least once by HPAC, to determine the proper 
treatment program. HPAC may decide that additional meetings and medical 
and/or toxicology examinations are required. The Office of the Commissioner, 
the Association, HPAC, Club personnel, and all of their members, affiliates, 
agents, consultants and employees, are prohibited from publicly disclosing 
information about the Player’s test results, Initial Evaluation, diagnosis, 
Treatment Program (including whether a Player is on either the Clinical 
or Administrative Track), prognosis or compliance with the Program. All 
