There have been many dramatic on-and-off-field moments in over 130 years 
of Major League Baseball: Baseball had frequent problems with gamblers 
influencing the game, until the 1920s when the Black Sox Scandal and the 
resultant merciless crackdown largely put an end to it. After a losing 
streak towards the end of the season cost the Louisville Grays the pennant, 
members of the team were discovered to have thrown games for money. Four 
players, including star pitcher Jim Devlin, were banned from professional 
baseball for life. On the eve of the "playoff" or "makeup" game between 
the Chicago Cubs and the New York Giants that would decide the National 
League championship, an umpire refused an attempted bribe intended to help 
the Giants win. The Giants lost to the Cubs, and the matter was kept fairly 
quiet. It came out the following spring, but the results of the official 
inquiry were kept secret. However, the Giants' team physician for 1908 
was reportedly the culprit and was banned for life. Recent research has 
suggested that the team physician was allowed to be the "scapegoat"; some 
baseball historians now suspect that the Giants' manager, John McGraw, 
was behind the physician's bribe attempt, or that it may in fact have been 
McGraw himself who approached the umpire. If true, and had it become known, 
it could have been disastrous, as McGraw was such a prominent figure in 
the game. The four-game sweep of the Philadelphia Athletics by the Boston 
Braves in the 1914 World Series was stunning. Students of that Series suspect 
that the Athletics were angry at their notoriously miserly owner, Connie 
Mack, and that the A's players did not give the Series their best effort. 
Although such an allegation was never proven, Mack apparently thought that 
it was at least a strong possibility, and he soon traded or sold all of 
the stars away from that 1914 team. The A's team was decimated, and within 
two years they limped to the worst season win-lost percentage in modern 
baseball history (36-117, .235); it would be over a decade before they 
recovered. The manner in which the New York Giants lost to the Chicago 
White Sox in the 1917 World Series raised some suspicions. A key play in 
the final game involved Heinie Zimmerman chasing Eddie Collins across an 
unguarded home plate. Immediately afterward, Zimmerman (who had also hit 
only .120 during the Series) denied throwing the game or the Series. Within 
two years, Zimmerman and his corrupt teammate Hal Chase would be suspended 
for life, not so much due to any one incident but to a series of questionable 
actions and associations. The fact that the question of throwing the Series 
was even raised suggests the level of public consciousness of gamblers' 
potential influence on the game. Then, just a year ahead of the infamous 
Black Sox scandal, there were rumors of World Series fixing by members 
of the Chicago Cubs. The Cubs lost the 1918 Series in a sparsely-attended 
affair that also nearly resulted in a players' strike demanding more than 
the normal gate receipts. With World War I dominating the news (as well 
as having shortened the regular baseball season and having caused attendance 
to shrink) the unsubstantiated rumors were allowed to dissipate. The 1919 
World Series resulted in the most famous scandal in baseball history, often 
referred to as the Black Sox Scandal. Eight players from the Chicago White 
Sox (nicknamed the Black Sox) were accused of throwing the series against 
the Cincinnati Reds. Details of the scandal remain controversial, and the 
extent to which each player was said to be involved varied. It was, however, 
front-page news across the country when the story was uncovered late in 
the 1920 season, and despite being acquitted of criminal charges (throwing 
baseball games was technically not a crime), the eight players were banned 
from organized baseball (i.e. the leagues subject to the National Agreement) 
for life. Although betting had been an ongoing problem in baseball since 
the 1870s, it reached a head in this scandal, resulting in radical changes 
in the game's organization. It resulted in the appointment of a Commissioner 
of Baseball (Kenesaw Mountain Landis) who took firm steps to try to rid 
the game of gambling influence permanently. One important step was the 
lifetime ban against the Black Sox Scandal participants. The "eight men 
out" were the great "natural hitter" "Shoeless" Joe Jackson; pitchers Eddie 
Cicotte and "Lefty" Williams; infielders "Buck" Weaver, "Chick" Gandil, 
Fred McMullin, and "Swede" Risberg; and outfielder "Happy" Felsch. Jackson, 
who was suspended during the peak of his career with a .356 lifetime batting 
average (all-time third), is still regarded as one of the greatest players 
not in the Hall of Fame. After the 1919 scandal and some further game-fixing 
incidents in 1920 had been resolved, and with Landis having taken over, 
the gambling problem apparently went away, for the most part, for decades. 
Commissioners have taken an almost fanatical interest in the subject, suspending 
well-known individuals for lengthy times just for having been seen with 
gamblers; Leo Durocher, manager of the Brooklyn Dodgers, was suspended 
by Commissioner Happy Chandler for the 1947 season for just that reason. 
After their retirement, Mickey Mantle and Willie Mays served for a while 
as greeters at legal Atlantic City gambling casinos. Commissioner Bowie 
Kuhn issued a ban against them. New Jersey state gaming regulators harshly 
criticized Kuhn's decision, while newspaper articles of the time pointed 
out that Mantle and Mays played before there were large player salaries. 
Their bans were lifted during Commissioner Peter Ueberroth's term. In March 
1989, Pete Rose, baseball's all-time hits leader and manager of the Cincinnati 
Reds since 1984, was reported by Sports Illustrated as betting on Major 
League games, including Reds games, while he was the manager. Rose had 
been questioned about his gambling activities in February 1989 by outgoing 
commissioner Peter Ueberroth and his successor, National League president 
A. Bartlett Giamatti. Three days later, lawyer John M. Dowd was retained 
to investigate the charges against Rose. During the investigation, Giamatti 
took office as the commissioner of baseball. The Dowd Report asserted that 
Pete Rose bet on 52 Reds games in 1987, at a minimum of $10,000 a day. 
Rose, facing a very harsh punishment, along with his attorney and agent, 
Reuven Katz, decided to seek a compromise with Major League Baseball. On 
August 24, 1989, Rose agreed to a voluntary lifetime ban from baseball. 
The agreement had three key provisions: Despite the "no finding of fact" 
provision, Giamatti immediately stated publicly that he felt that Rose 
bet on baseball games. Eight days later, September 1, Giamatti suffered 
a fatal heart attack. The consensus among baseball experts is that Giamatti's 
post-agreement statement, his sudden and untimely death, and appointment 
of new commissioner, Fay Vincent, a close friend and great admirer of Giamatti, 
doomed Pete Rose's hopes of reinstatement.[citation needed] Bud Selig, 
the former owner of the Milwaukee Brewers, succeeded Vincent in 1992. Rose 
has applied for reinstatement twice: in September 1997 and March 2003. 
In both instances, commissioner Selig chose not to act, thereby keeping 
the ban intact. Upon Selig's retirement from the Commissioner's Office, 
Rose applied for reinstatement in March 2015, but Selig's successor Rob 
Manfred denied the request in December of that year. On February 4, 1991, 
Rose's ban from baseball was extended to the Baseball Hall of Fame, when 
the twelve members of the board of directors of the Hall voted unanimously 
to bar Rose from the ballot. However, Major League Baseball allowed Rose 
to be a part of the All-Century Team celebration in 1999 since he was named 
one of the team's outfielders. In 2004, after years of speculation and 
denial, Rose admitted in his book My Prison Without Bars that the accusations 
that he had bet on Reds games were true and that he had admitted it to 
Selig personally some time before. He stated that he always bet on the 
Reds, never against them.[1] It must be noted that the Major League baseball 
rule that Rose violated makes no distinction between betting for or against 
a team. Only betting on it and being in a position to influence the outcome 
are enough to violate the rule.[2] Repeatedly in the 1980s, MLB owners 
colluded to keep player salaries down. Over multiple instances the owners 
were found to have stolen nearly $400 million from the players. When the 
Major League Baseball players struck in 1994, the owners were found to 
have committed unfair labor practices in attempting to keep player salaries 
down again.[citation needed] Baseball has had its share of problems with 
substance abuse from the inception. Prior to the 1970s, there were countless 
individual problems with alcohol abuse, but as alcohol was a legal substance 
during most of that time (except for the Prohibition era), alcohol was 
typically seen as a character weakness on the part of individuals. Public 
awareness of illegal drugs accelerated during the 1970s, and by the 1980s 
a number of players had become caught up. Pittsburgh Pirates players Dave 
Parker, Dale Berra, Rod Scurry, Lee Mazzilli, Lee Lacy, and John Milner, 
as well as non-Pirates Willie Mays Aikens, Vida Blue, Enos Cabell, Keith 
Hernandez, Jeffrey Leonard, Tim Raines, and Lonnie Smith, were summoned 
to appear before a Pittsburgh grand jury. Their testimony led to the Pittsburgh 
Drug Trials, which made national headlines in September 1985. The spotlight 
on the "Pittsburgh problem" by the national media led to the more widespread 
awareness of use of other drugs such as amphetamines ("greenies" in baseball 
vernacular) and marijuana[citation needed] in the game. Both have a long 
history in baseball; Milner (who had retired two years earlier due to recurring 
hamstring injuries), in fact, spoke of Willie Mays and Willie Stargell, 
both iconic figures and Baseball Hall of Famers, giving him "greenies". 
Testimony revealed that drug dealers frequented the Pirates' clubhouse. 
Stories such as Rod Scurry leaving a game in the late innings to look for 
cocaine and John Milner buying two grams of cocaine for $200 in the bathroom 
stalls at Three Rivers Stadium during a 1980 game against the Houston Astros 
shocked the grand jurors. Even Kevin Koch, who played the Pirates' mascot, 
was implicated for buying cocaine and introducing players to a drug dealer. 
Ultimately, seven drug dealers pleaded guilty on various charges. On February 
28, 1986, Baseball Commissioner Peter Ueberroth suspended a number of players 
for varying lengths of time. A primary condition of reinstatement was public 
service. It would have also included urine tests, but the players union 
was able to successfully halt its implementation. To this day, drug testing, 
particularly of this sort, is a polarizing issue. Rod Scurry died at age 
36 on November 5, 1992 in a Reno, Nevada intensive care unit of a heart 
attack after a cocaine-fueled incident with police officers led to his 
hospitalization. The steroids rumors and facts resulted in several de facto 
bans from the game by players who were either certifiable or suspected 
users of steroids, and significant doubt has been cast about the quality 
of various baseball records set since at least the early 1990s. Some people 
base their opinion on José Canseco's tell-all book Juiced: Wild Times, 
Rampant 'Roids, Smash Hits & How Baseball Got Big. In 2013, twenty Major 
League Baseball (MLB) players were accused of using HGH after obtaining 
it from the clinic Biogenesis of America. Milwaukee Brewers star Ryan Braun, 
who had a drug-related suspension overturned in 2011, made a deal with 
MLB and accepted a 65-game ban. Two weeks later, New York Yankees star 
Alex Rodriguez was suspended through the 2014 season (211 games), and 12 
other players were suspended for 50 games. It was the most players ever 
