The Major League Baseball Game of the Week (GOTW) is the de facto title 
for nationally televised coverage of regular season Major League Baseball 
games. The Game of the Week has traditionally aired on Saturday afternoons. 
When the national networks began televising national games of the week, 
it opened the door for a national audience to see particular clubs. While 
most teams were broadcast, emphasis was always on the league leaders and 
the major market franchises that could draw the largest audience. In 1953, 
ABC-TV executive Edgar J. Scherick (who would later go on to create Wide 
World of Sports) broached a Saturday Game of the Week-TV sport's first 
network series. At the time, ABC was labeled a "nothing network" that had 
fewer outlets than CBS or NBC. ABC also needed paid programming or "anything 
for bills" as Scherick put it. At first, ABC hesitated at the idea of a 
nationally televised regular season baseball program. ABC wondered how 
exactly the Game of the Week would reach television in the first place 
and who would notice if it did? In April 1953, Edgar Scherick set out to 
sell teams rights but instead, only got the Philadelphia Athletics, Cleveland 
Indians, and Chicago White Sox to sign on. To make matters worse, Major 
League Baseball barred the Game of the Week from airing within 50 miles 
of any ballpark. Major League Baseball according to Scherick, insisted 
on protecting local coverage and didn't care about national appeal. ABC 
though, did care about the national appeal and claimed that "most of America 
was still up for grabs." In 1953, ABC earned an 11.4 rating for their Game 
of the Week telecasts. Blacked-out cities had 32% of households. In the 
rest of the United States, 3 in 4 TV sets in use watched Dizzy Dean and 
Buddy Blattner call the games for ABC. In 1955, CBS took over the Game 
package, adding Sunday telecasts in 1957. NBC began its own Saturday and 
Sunday coverage in 1957 and 1959, respectively. In 1960, ABC resumed Saturday 
telecasts; that year the "Big 3" networks aired a combined 123 games. As 
ABC's Edgar Scherick later observed, "In '53, no one wanted us. Now teams 
begged for "Game"'s cash." That year, the NFL began a US$14.1 million revenue-sharing 
pact. Dean and Blattner continued to call the games for CBS, with Pee Wee 
Reese replacing Blattner in 1960. Gene Kirby, who'd worked with Dean and 
Blattner for ABC and Mutual radio, also contributed to the CBS telecasts 
as a producer and announcer. By 1965, Major League Baseball ended the big-city 
blackout, got $6.5 million for exclusivity, and split the pot. On March 
17, 1965, Jackie Robinson became the first black network broadcaster for 
Major League Baseball. According to ABC Sports producer Chuck Howard, despite 
Robinson having a high, stabbing voice, great presence, and sharp mind, 
all he lacked was time. In 1965, ABC provided the first-ever nationwide 
baseball coverage with weekly Saturday broadcasts on a regional basis. 
ABC paid $5.7 million for the rights to the 28 Saturday/holiday Games of 
the Week. ABC's deal covered all of the teams except the New York Yankees 
and Philadelphia Phillies (who had their own television deals) and called 
for three regionalized games on Saturdays, Independence Day, and Labor 
Day. ABC blacked out the games in the home cities of the clubs playing 
those games. Chris Schenkel, Keith Jackson, and Merle Harmon were the principal 
play-by-play announcers for ABC's coverage. In 1966, the New York Yankees, 
who in the year before played 21 Games of the Week for CBS, joined NBC's 
package. The new package under NBC called for 28 games compared to 1960's 
three-network combination of 123. On October 19, 1966, NBC signed a three-year 
contract with Major League Baseball. The year before, NBC lost the rights 
to the Saturday-Sunday Game of the Week. In addition, the previous deal 
limited CBS to covering only 12 weekends when its new subsidiary, the New 
York Yankees, played at home. Under the new deal, NBC paid roughly US$6 
million per year for 25 Saturday games and prime-time contests on Memorial 
Day, Independence Day, and Labor Day; $6.1 million for the 1967 World Series 
and 1967 All-Star Game; and $6.5 million for the 1968 World Series and 
1968 All-Star Game. This brought the total value of the contract (which 
included three Monday night telecasts) up to $30.6 million. NBC, replacing 
CBS, traded a circus for a seminar. Pee Wee Reese said "Curt Gowdy was 
its guy (1966–1975), and didn't want [Dizzy] Dean – too overpowering. Curt 
was nice, but worried about mistakes. Diz and I just laughed." Falstaff 
Brewery hyped Dean as Gowdy in return said "I said, 'I can't do "Wabash 
Cannonball." Our styles clash'"-then came Pee Wee Reese.[citation needed] 
Gowdy added by saying about the pairing between him and Reese "They figured 
he was fine with me, and they'd still have their boy."[citation needed] 
To many, baseball meant CBS' 1955–1964 Game of the Week thoroughbred. A 
year later, NBC bought ABC's variant of a mule so to speak. "We had the 
Series and All-Star Game. 1966–1968's "Game" meant exclusivity," said NBC 
Sports head Carl Lindemann. Lindemann added by saying "[Colleague] Chet 
Simmons and liked him [Gowdy] with the Sox and football"-also, getting 
two network sports for the price of one.[citation needed] As his analyst, 
Gowdy wanted his friend Ted Williams. NBC's lead sponsor, Chrysler said 
no when Williams, a Sears spokesman, was pictured putting stuff in a Ford 
truck. A black and white kinescope (saved by Armed Forces Television) of 
a July 12, 1969 between the Philadelphia Philles and Chicago Cubs is believed 
to be the oldest surviving complete telecast of the Saturday afternoon 
Game of the Week. The Nielsen ratings for the Game of the Week from 1966–1968 
as well as the World Series fell by 10 and 19%, respectively. Only the 
All-Star Game nixed the seemingly growing view that baseball was too bland 
for a hip and inchoate age. Almost half (48%) in a 1964 Harris Poll named 
baseball as their favorite sport. Unfortunately, just 19% did a decade 
later. Part of the problem was that exclusivity began. Lindsey Nelson said 
"Think of the last decade. Mel, Buck, Diz-and one guy replaces 'em." As 
viewers grew tired, the Sporting News got so many unfavorable letters (mostly 
concerning their problems with Curt Gowdy)-"atrocity...a pallbearer...baseball 
is not dead, no thanks to Gowdy"-it routed them to NBC.[citation needed] 
Harry Caray wrote "As spectacle, baseball suffers on [TV]." He added by 
saying "The fan at the park [talk, drink, take Junior to the john] rarely 
notices the time span between pitches. Not to the same fan at home."[citation 
needed] Although not necessarily responsible, Gowdy was held accountable, 
becoming, as he did, more visible than even Dizzy Dean. In 1976, NBC paid 
US$10.7 million per year to show 25 Saturday Games of the Week and the 
other half of the postseason (the League Championship Series in odd numbered 
years and World Series in even numbered years). NBC would continue this 
particular arrangement with ABC through 1989. Joe Garagiola was pushed 
to succeed Curt Gowdy, who by 1978 was reduced to being a roving World 
Series reporter, as NBC's #1 play-by-play announcer (and team with color 
commentator Tony Kubek) in 1976. NBC hoped that Garagiola's charm and unorthodox 
dwelling on the personal would stop the a decade-long ratings dive for 
the Game of the Week. Instead, the ratings bobbed from 6.7 (1977) via 7.5 
(1978) to 6.3 (1981–1982). "Saturday had a constituency but it didn't swell" 
said NBC Sports executive producer Scotty Connal. Some believed that millions 
missed Dizzy Dean while local-team TV split the audience. Scotty Connal 
believed that the team of Joe Garagiola and Tony Kubek were "A great example 
of black and white." Connal added by saying "A pitcher throws badly to 
third, Joe says, 'The third baseman's fault.' Tony: 'The pitcher's'" Media 
critic Gary Deeb termed theirs "the finest baseball commentary ever carried 
on network TV." In late 1979, Milwaukee Brewers announcer Merle Harmon 
left Milwaukee completely in favor of a multi-year pact with NBC. Harmon 
saw the NBC deal as a perfect opportunity since according to The Milwaukee 
Journal he would make more money, get more exposure, and do less traveling. 
At NBC, Harmon did SportsWorld, the backup Game of the Week, and served 
as a field reporter for the 1980 World Series. Harmon most of all, had 
hoped to cover the American boycotted 1980 Summer Olympics from Moscow. 
After NBC pulled out of their scheduled coverage of the 1980 Summer Olympics, 
Harmon considered it to being "A great letdown." To add insult to injury, 
NBC fired Harmon in 1982 in favor of Bob Costas. Incidentally, long time 
NBC Game of the Week announcer Curt Gowdy replaced Harmon, who was working 
with ABC a year earlier. On September 26, 1981, the scheduled Major League 
Baseball Game of the Week between the Detroit Tigers and Milwaukee Brewers 
had ended, and the NBC affiliate in Buffalo, New York, WGR-TV, picked up 
the network's backup game, a Houston Astros–Los Angeles Dodgers contest 
in which Nolan Ryan was pitching his lone National League no-hitter. However, 
the coverage suddenly ended just as the ninth inning started, when the 
local station cut away to regular programming. WGR-TV felt duty-bound to 
present a naval training film--Life Aboard an Aircraft Carrier. (Baseball 
Hall of Shame 2 (1986), by Nash and Zullo; pp. 108–09) By 1983, Joe Garagiola 
had stepped aside from the play-by-play duties for Vin Scully while Tony 
Kubek was paired with Bob Costas on NBC telecasts. The New York Times observed 
the performance of the team of Scully and Garagiola by saying "The duo 
of Scully and Garagiola is very good, and often even great, is no longer 
in dispute." A friend of Garagiola's said "He understood the cash" concerning 
NBC's 1984–1989 407% Major League Baseball hike. At this point the idea 
was basically summarized as Vin Scully "being the star" whereas, Joe Garagiola 
was Pegasus or NBC's junior light. When NBC inked a US$550 million contract 
for six years in the fall of 1982, a return on the investment so to speak 
demanded Vin Scully to be their star baseball announcer. Vin Scully reportedly 
made $2 million a year during his time with NBC in the 1980s. NBC Sports 
head Thomas Watson said about Scully "He is baseball's best announcer. 
Why shouldn't he be ours?" Dick Enberg, who did the Game of the Week the 
year prior to Vin Scully's hiring mused "No room for me. "Game" had enough 
for two teams a week." Vin Scully had to wait over 15 years to get his 
shot at calling the Game of the Week. Prior to 1983, Scully only announced 
the 1966 and 1974 World Series for NBC (during the time-frame of NBC having 
the Game of the Week) since they both involved Scully's Dodgers. Henry 
Hecht once wrote "NBC's Curt Gowdy, Tony Kubek, and Monte Moore sounded 
like college radio rejects vs. Scully." When Tony Kubek first teamed with 
Bob Costas in 1983, Kubek said "I'm not crazy about being assigned to the 
backup game, but it's no big ego deal." Costas said about working with 
Kubek "I think my humor loosened Tony, and his knowledge improved me." 
The team of Costas and Kubek proved to be a formidable pair. There were 
even some who preferred the team of Kubek and Costas over the musings of 
Vin Scully and the asides of Joe Garagiola.[1] One of Bob Costas and Tony 
Kubek's most memorable broadcasts came on June 23, 1984. The duo were at 
Chicago's Wrigley Field to call an unbelievable 12–11 contest between the 
Chicago Cubs and St. Louis Cardinals. Led by second baseman Ryne Sandberg, 
the Cubs rallied from a 9–3 deficit before winning it in extra innings. 
After Sandberg hit his second home run in the game (with two out in the 
bottom of the 9th to tie it 11–11), Costas cried "That's the real Roy Hobbs 
because this can't be happening! We're sitting here, and it doesn't make 
any difference if it's 1984 or '54-just freeze this and don't change a 
thing!" On December 14, 1988, CBS (under the guidance of Commissioner Peter 
Ueberroth,[2] Major League Baseball's broadcast director Bryan Burns,[3] 
CBS Inc. CEO Laurence Tisch as well as CBS Sports executives Neal Pilson 
and Eddie Einhorn) paid approximately US$1.8 billion[3] for exclusive over-the-air 
television rights for over four years (beginning in 1990[4]). CBS paid 
about $265 million each year for the World Series, League Championship 
Series, All-Star Game, and the Saturday Game of the Week. NBC's final edition 
of the Game of the Week was televised on October 9, 1989; Game 5 of the 
National League Championship Series between the San Francisco Giants and 
Chicago Cubs from Candlestick Park. Vin Scully said "It's a passing of 
a great American tradition. It is sad. I really and truly feel that. It 
will leave a vast window, to use a Washington word, where people will not 
get Major League Baseball and I think that's a tragedy." Scully added that 
"It's a staple that's gone. I feel for people who come to me and say how 
they miss it, and I hope me." Bob Costas said "Who thought baseball'd kill 
its best way to reach the public? It coulda kept us and CBS-we'd have kept 
the "Game"-but it only cared about cash." Costas added that he would rather 
do a Game of the Week that got a 5 rating than host a Super Bowl. "Whatever 
else I did, I'd never have left "Game of the Week"" Costas claimed. The 
final regular season edition of NBC's Game of the Week was televised on 
September 30, 1989. That game featured the Toronto Blue Jays beating Baltimore 
Orioles 4–3 to clinch the AL East title from the SkyDome. It was the 981st 
edition of NBC's Game of the Week overall. Tony Kubek reacted by saying 
"I can't believe it" when the subject came about NBC losing baseball for 
the first time since 1947. Coincidentally, from 1977–1989, Tony Kubek (in 
addition to his NBC duties) worked as a commentator for the Toronto Blue 
Jays. On April 7, 1984, the Detroit Tigers' Jack Morris no-hit the Chicago 
White Sox at Comiskey Park; the game was the 1984 season opener for NBC's 
baseball coverage, and it was the only no-hit game thrown in the series' 
history. CBS alienated and confused fans with their sporadic treatment 
of regular season telecasts.[5][6] With a sense of true continuity destroyed, 
fans eventually figured that they couldn't count on CBS to satisfy their 
needs (thus poor ratings were a result). CBS televised about 16 regular 
season Saturday afternoon games (not counting back-up telecasts) which 
was 14 fewer than what NBC televised during the previous contract.[7] CBS 
used the strategy of broadcasting only a select amount of games in order 
to build a demand in response to supposedly sagging ratings. In addition, 
CBS angered fans by ignoring the division and pennant races; instead, their 
scheduled games focused on games featuring major-market teams, regardless 
of their record. Marv Albert, who hosted NBC's studio baseball pre-game 
show for many years said about CBS' baseball coverage "You wouldn't see 
a game for a month. Then you didn't know when CBS came back on." Sports 
Illustrated joked that CBS stood for Covers Baseball Sporadically. USA 
Today added that Jack Buck and Tim McCarver "may have to have a reunion 
before [their] telecast." Mike Lupica of the New York Daily News took it 
a step further by calling CBS' baseball deal "The Vietnam of sports television." 
NBC play-by-play man Bob Costas believed that a large bulk of the regular 
season coverage beginning in the 1990s shifted to cable (namely, ESPN) 
because CBS, the network that was taking over from NBC the television rights 
beginning in 1990, didn't really want the Saturday Game of the Week. Many 
fans who didn't appreciate CBS' approach to scheduling regular season baseball 
games believed that they were only truly after the marquee events (i.e. 
All-Star Game, League Championship Series, and the World Series) in order 
to sell advertising space (especially the fall entertainment television 
schedule). From 1994–1995, there was no traditional Saturday Game of the 
Week coverage. Major League Baseball made a deal with the Fox Broadcasting 
Company on November 7, 1995. Fox paid a fraction less of the amount of 
money that CBS paid for the Major League Baseball television rights for 
the 1990–1993 seasons. Unlike the previous television deal, "The Baseball 
Network", Fox reverted to the format of televising regular season games 
(approximately 16 weekly telecasts that normally began on Memorial Day 
weekend) on Saturday afternoons. Fox did however, continue a format that 
"The Baseball Network" started by offering games based purely on a viewer's 
region. Fox's approach has usually been to offer four regionalized telecasts, 
with exclusivity from 1:00 to 4:00 P.M. in each time zone. When Fox first 
got into baseball, it used the motto "Same game, new attitude." Like NBC 
and CBS before it, Fox determined its Saturday schedule by who was playing 
a team from one of the three largest television markets: New York City, 
Los Angeles, or Chicago. If there was a game which combined two of these 
three markets, it would be aired. In Fox's first season of Major League 
Baseball coverage in 1996, they averaged a 2.7 rating for its Saturday 
Game of the Week. That was down 23% from CBS' 3.4 in 1993 despite the latter 
network's infamy for its rather haphazard Game of the Week schedule. In 
2004, Fox's Game of the Week telecasts only appeared three times after 
August 28, due to ratings competition from college football (especially 
since Fox affiliates may have had syndicated college football broadcasts). 
One unidentified former Fox broadcaster complained by saying "Fox is MIA 
on the pennant race, and Joe [Buck] doesn't even do [September 18's] Red 
Sox-Yankees. What kind of sport would tolerate that?" By this point, Joe 
Buck was unavailable to call baseball games, since he became Fox's #1 NFL 
announcer (a job he has held since 2002). The following two seasons saw 
similar interruptions in Fox's September coverage. One of the terms of 
the deal was that, beginning with the 2007 season, the Saturday Game of 
the Week coverage was extended over the entire season rather than starting 
after Memorial Day, with most games being aired in the 3:30–7:00 p.m. (EDT) 
time slot, changed to 4:00 to 7:00 after Fox cancelled its in-studio pre-game 
program for the 2009 season. Exceptions were added in 2010 with 3:00 to 
7:00 for Saturday afternoons where Fox would broadcast a NASCAR Sprint 
Cup Series race in prime time (which starts at 7:30) and 7:00 to 10:00, 
when Fox broadcasts the UEFA Champions League soccer final (which starts 
at 3:00). For 2012, Fox revised its schedule. While the 3:30 p.m. EDT starting 
time continues, weekly games on Saturday NASCAR race dates in Texas, Richmond, 
and Darlington, start at 12:30 p.m. EDT. And starting with the UEFA Champions 
League Final Match Day until the Saturday before the All-Star Break, all 
Game of the Week games would start at 7 p.m. EDT. The Baseball Night in 
America moniker was used for all MLB on Fox games in that span. In 2014, 
the Fox Sports 1 cable network began airing regular-season games over 26 
Saturdays. As a result, MLB regular season coverage on the over the air 
Fox network was reduced to 12 weeks. From 1985 to 1997, the CBS Radio network 
aired its own incarnation of the Game of the Week, broadcasting games at 
various times on Saturday afternoons and/or Sunday nights. In 1998, national 
radio rights went to ESPN Radio, which airs Saturday afternoon games during 
the season as well as Sunday Night Baseball and Opening Day and holiday 
broadcasts. Earlier, the Mutual and Liberty networks had aired Game of 
the Day broadcasts to non-major-league cities in the late 1940s and 1950s. 
The A Game is generally the nickname for the baseball game that is broadcast 
to approximately 80% of the country. The B Game (also known as the Backup 
Game) only aired in the participants' home markets. For example, if the 
Cubs were playing the Cardinals, only the Chicago and St. Louis television 
markets would get a chance to see the game. The B Game also generally existed 
as a backup in case of rainouts/delays at the A Game. Previously (i.e. 
pre-1980s), NBC typically had the A Game going to most of the country (but 
not to the markets of the participating teams). While the B Game only went 
to the home markets of the teams in the A Game. In those days, the TV rules 
did not allow a market to see its local team play on NBC. However, in situations 
where the B Game got rained out, the rules would relax. In the early years 
of ABC's Monday Night Baseball broadcasts (c. 1976), the rules changed 
to allow the home market of the A Game's road team to see the A Game. Meanwhile, 
