Major League Baseball on ESPN Radio is the brand name for exclusive play-by-play 
broadcast presentation of Major League Baseball on ESPN Radio. The coverage 
has most recently been presented by DraftKings; previous presenting sponsors 
included Xerox, AutoZone, Excedrin, United States Postal Service and Mercedes-Benz. 
In 1998, ESPN Radio took over from CBS Radio as the official, national 
radio broadcaster for Major League Baseball. The network's contract with 
MLB currently runs through 2021, and as of 2006, Major League Baseball 
on ESPN Radio is heard on over 321 stations across the United States. The 
games include Opening Day, Sunday Night Baseball, Saturday Game of the 
Week, holiday games and September pennant race games. ESPN Radio holds 
exclusive radio rights to the All-Star Game and Home Run Derby. The postseason 
(including the Wild Card Games, Division Series, League Championship Series 
and World Series) is a semi-exclusive arrangement. The participating teams' 
flagship stations are allowed to air play-by-play using their own announcers 
and production. The national ESPN Radio feed may, however, be carried live 
on another station in those markets as well (for instance, WHB in Kansas 
City aired the ESPN feed of Kansas City Royals postseason games in 2014 
and 2015, competing directly with the Royals Radio Network broadcast on 
KCSP). If affiliate stations on the teams' radio networks wish to carry 
coverage of postseason games they must use the national feed. Since the 
inaugural World Baseball Classic in March 2006, the semi-finals and the 
championship have also been broadcast as part of Major League Baseball 
on ESPN Radio. In addition to affiliate stations on AM/FM radio, ESPN Radio's 
game broadcasts are carried as part of Sirius XM Radio's MLB coverage. 
However, they are not included in the subscription "Gameday Audio" package 
on MLB.com with the exception of the All-Star Game, for which no other 
radio play-by-play feed is available. Since June 2011, the games can also 
be heard online at ESPN Radio.com and on mobile devices via ESPN Radio's 
mobile app and other applications such as TuneIn. They can also be heard 
on PlayStation and Xbox consoles via their respective iHeartRadio and Tunein 
apps. Previously, rights restrictions prevented ESPN Radio.com or other 
ESPN/Disney online ventures (such as DGamer) from live-streaming the games. 
While the games are sometimes unavailable on the ESPN Radio iPod Touch/iPhone 
app (due to blackout and/or contractual restrictions[1]), they can be heard 
on the app via the included affiliate stations. In 1997, ESPN Radio outbid 
CBS Radio to become the exclusive national radio broadcaster of Major League 
Baseball beginning the following year. CBS Radio had been the national 
radio broadcaster since 1976. The agreement lasted seven years through 
2004 and gave ESPN Radio the rights to broadcast numerous games including 
Sunday Night Baseball, Saturday Game of the Week, Opening Day and holiday 
games, September weekday pennant race games, the All-Star Game and Home 
Run Derby, and all of the playoffs, including the World Series. In 2004, 
ESPN Radio extended the deal with a five-year, $55 million dollar contract 
extension through the 2010 season. The agreement also added a weekly program 
devoted to baseball, which became The Baseball Show from 3 p.m. ET to 7 pm. 
ET on Sundays during the regular season. The program was hosted by John 
Seibel and Steve Phillips. As of 2011, the primary ESPN Radio crew for 
Sunday Night Baseball consists of play-by-play announcer Jon Sciambi and 
color analyst Chris Singleton. In 2010 Sciambi succeeded Gary Thorne, who 
had called play-by-play in 2008–09; Thorne had succeeded Dan Shulman, did 
so from 2002–07; Shulman, in turn, had been preceded by Charley Steiner 
from 1998–2002. Singleton succeeds Dave Campbell, who was an analyst from 
1999–2010. Campbell replaced Kevin Kennedy as analyst in 1999, after the 
latter had worked with Steiner in the network's inaugural season of coverage. 
Marc Kestecher currently serves as the primary Baseball Tonight studio 
host; he was preceded by Joe D'Ambrosio from 1998–2007. As of 2014, Dan 
Shulman (from ESPN's Sunday Night Baseball TV crew) and Aaron Boone call 
the World Series and one of the two League Championship Series each year, 
while Sciambi and Singleton call the other LCS. Various other announcers 
work the network's secondary regular-season, Wild Card Game and Division 
Series broadcasts as needed. Sciambi and Singleton also call the All-Star 
