The Major League Baseball logo was designed by Jerry Dior in 1968 and was 
included on all on-field uniforms of Major League Baseball employees beginning 
in the 1969 season. According to Dior, the logo was created in a single 
afternoon. Contrary to popular belief, the silhouette was not modeled on 
future Hall of Famer Harmon Killebrew,[1] or any specific player[2] but 
was drawn with reference to photographs of several players.[3] The silhouette 
was chosen specifically because of its ambiguity: the batter could be right- 
or left-handed and of any ethnic background. [3] For many years, the authorship 
of the logo was a matter of some dispute as two graphic designers laid 
claim to creating the piece: Jerry Dior[4] (working for the marketing firm 
of Sandgren & Murtha) and James Sherman,[5] who is probably better known 
publicly as a comic book illustrator. In November 2008, ESPN writer Paul 
Lukas managed to clear the matter up and Dior's authorship is no longer 
in doubt.[3] Upon closely examining the logo, Sherman declared: "That's 
not my logo, and I was totally unaware that it existed... The logo I created 
was very similar, but I designed it in the early 1980s. All I can say is 
that I was so sports-unaware that I didn't know about the earlier logo. 
I feel like a total idiot now that I didn't know about it. I'm flabbergasted."[3] 
The logo has not been changed in the years since its adoption, except that 
individual teams sometimes alter the coloring to match their uniform colors. 
Since its adoption, the basic model of an athlete (or equipment used for 
the sport) in silhouette flanked by red and blue color blocks has also 
been incorporated in the logos of the National Basketball Association (with 
Jerry West as its player model), Minor League Baseball, Women's National 
Basketball Association, Arena Football League, Hockey Canada, American 
Hockey League, National Lacrosse League, Indy Racing League, and Major 
League Gaming. It has also been parodied in Major League Eating. Alan Siegel, 
who oversaw Dior's logo, deliberately based his NBA logo design off the 
MLB's in 1969 because NBA Commissioner J. Walter Kennedy wanted a family 
