The major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada are 
the highest professional competitions of team sports in the United States 
and Canada. The four leagues universally included in the definition are 
Major League Baseball (MLB), the National Basketball Association (NBA), 
the National Football League (NFL), and the National Hockey League (NHL). 
Other prominent leagues include Major League Soccer (MLS) and the Canadian 
Football League (CFL). The MLB, NBA, NFL and NHL are commonly referred 
to as the "Big 4". Each of these is the wealthiest professional club competition 
in its sport worldwide, and along with the English Premier League they 
make up the top five sports leagues by revenue in the world. In addition, 
the sports of these four leagues were all developed in their modern forms 
in North America, and all except American Football have become popular 
internationally. Because the leagues enjoy a significant place in popular 
culture in the U.S. and Canada, the best players from these leagues often 
become cultural icons in both countries. Currently, the NFL has 32 teams, 
and the others have 30 each. The vast majority of major league teams are 
concentrated in the most populous metropolitan areas of the United States 
and Canada. Unlike the promotion and relegation systems used in sports 
leagues in various other regions around the world, those teams in the North 
American sports leagues remain static from season-to-season, unless they 
are disbanded or relocated. Each Big Four league, as well as Major League 
Soccer and the Canadian Football League, averages at least 15,000 fans 
in attendance per game as of 2013. Baseball, football, and hockey have 
had professional leagues continuously for over 100 years; early leagues 
such as the National Association, Ohio League, and National Hockey Association 
formed the basis of the modern MLB, NFL, and NHL, respectively. Basketball 
was invented in 1891 and its first professional league formed in the 1920s. 
The Basketball Association of America formed the basis of the NBA. Soccer 
was first professionalized in 1894, but leagues suffered greatly from lack 
of sustainability and seldom lasted more than a decade. Soccer's greatest 
successes were in the form of the American Soccer League (1921–1933), the 
original North American Soccer League (1968–84), and, currently, Major 
League Soccer (1996–present). Although individual sports such as golf, 
tennis, and auto racing are also very popular, the term "major league" 
is usually limited to team sports. For golf and auto racing, the PGA Tour 
and NASCAR Sprint Cup serve as the respective major competitions on par 
with the major leagues in other sports in terms of media coverage, level 
of competition, and fan following. Major League Baseball is the highest 
level of play of baseball in North America. It consists of the National 
League (founded in 1876) and the American League (founded in 1901). Cooperation 
between the two leagues began in 1903, and the two merged on an organizational 
level in 2000 with the elimination of separate league offices; they have 
shared a single Commissioner since 1920. There are currently 30 member 
teams, with 29 located in the U.S. and 1 in Canada. Traditionally called 
the "National Pastime", baseball was the first professional sport in the 
U.S. The National Basketball Association is the premier basketball league 
in the world. It was founded as the Basketball Association of America in 
1946, and adopted its current name in 1949, when the BAA partially absorbed 
the rival National Basketball League. Four teams from the rival American 
Basketball Association joined the NBA with the ABA–NBA merger in 1976. 
It has 30 teams, 29 in the United States and 1 in Canada. The NBA is watched 
by audiences both domestically and internationally. The National Football 
League was founded in 1920 as a combination of various teams from regional 
leagues such as the Ohio League, the New York Pro Football League, and 
the Chicago circuit. The NFL partially absorbed the All-America Football 
Conference in 1949 and merged with the American Football League in 1970. 
It has 32 teams, all located in the United States. NFL games are the most 
attended of domestic professional leagues in the world in terms of per-game 
attendance, and the most popular in the U.S. in terms of television ratings 
and merchandising.[1] Its championship game, the Super Bowl, is the most 
watched annual event on U.S. television, with Super Bowl XLIX being the 
single most-watched program in U.S. television history.[2] The NFL is the 
only one of the major leagues not to have a presence in Canada, where the 
Canadian Football League (see below) is the premier professional league 
in the sport. The National Hockey League is the only one of the major leagues 
to have been founded in Canada. It was formed in 1917 as a successor to 
the Canadian National Hockey Association (founded 1909), taking all but 
one of the NHA's teams. The NHL partially absorbed the rival World Hockey 
Association in 1979. There are 30 teams, with 23 in the U.S. and 7 in Canada, 
with an expansion team for Las Vegas planned to start for the 2017–2018 
season. The most popular sports league in Canada, and widely followed across 
the northern U.S., the NHL has expanded southward in recent decades to 
attempt to gain a more national following in the United States, in cities 
such as Dallas, Miami, Nashville, Phoenix, Raleigh, and Tampa, with varying 
success. Hockey remains much more popular in the northern states of the 
U.S. closer to Canada, such as the Upper Midwest and New England, than 
in the rest of the United States. The NHL has more Canadian teams (seven) 
than MLB, the NBA, the NFL, and Major League Soccer combined (five). Nate 
Silver of the ESPN-owned website FiveThirtyEight has argued that there 
is a case to be made for the inclusion of the Major League Soccer and Canadian 
Football League in the major professional sports leagues of North America.[3] 
Major League Soccer (MLS) is the top-level men's professional soccer league 
in the United States and Canada. MLS has 20 teams as of 2015–17 in the 
United States and 3 in Canada. The league began play in 1996, its creation 
a requirement by FIFA for awarding the United States the right to host 
the 1994 World Cup. MLS is the first Division I outdoor soccer league in 
the U.S. or Canada since the North American Soccer League operated from 
1968 to 1984. MLS has increased in popularity following the adoption of 
the Designated Player rule in 2007, which allowed MLS to sign stars such 
as David Beckham and Thierry Henry. In 2014, MLS reported an average attendance 
of 19,148 per game, with total attendance exceeding 6.1 million overall, 
both breaking previous MLS attendance records.[4] The Canadian Football 
League is the highest level of play in Canadian football. The league was 
organized in 1956 as a cooperative agreement between two regional leagues, 
the Big Four (which dated to 1907) and the WIFU (which was founded in 1936), 
and became independent from Football Canada in 1958. The league now consists 
of 9 teams, all based in Canada. The Grey Cup is awarded annually to the 
champion every November and is the best attended sporting event in the 
nation. The oldest extant teams, the Hamilton Tiger-Cats and the Toronto 
Argonauts, trace their origins to the late 1860s and early 1870s, which 
ranks them amongst the oldest professional sports teams of any kind still 
in existence on the continent. The CFL attempted an expansion into the 
United States between 1993 and 1995, though the expansion teams all either 
folded or relocated to Canadian cities. The CFL is the second most popular 
league in Canada, after the NHL.[5] It has the third highest average attendance 
of the northern North American leagues, behind the NFL and MLB; in 2010 
the average attendance was 26,781, with a total attendance of 1,928,225[6] 
Major professional sports leagues are distinguished from other sports leagues 
in terms of business and economic factors, popularity of the league, and 
quality of play.[7] The following table compares the big four leagues, 
plus MLS and the CFL, on certain attributes that collectively attempt to 
indicate whether the league has "major league" status. The table includes 
the longevity and stability of the league, as measured by the year founded 
and the last time the league underwent contraction, the number of teams 
in the league, and the popularity of the league, as measured by annual 
revenues and average attendance. The top four major leagues each have revenues 
that can be many times greater than the payrolls of less popular sports 
leagues in the two nations. In terms of overall league revenue, the NFL, 
MLB and the NBA rank as the top three most lucrative sports leagues in 
the world, with the Premier League of English soccer and the NHL ranked 
at fourth and fifth place. The major sports leagues have their games televised 
on the big four U.S. broadcast TV networks—ABC, CBS, NBC, and Fox—enjoy 
strong TV viewer ratings, and earn significant revenues from these TV contracts. 
All of the top four major sports leagues have had television contracts 
with at least one of the original "big three" U.S. broadcast television 
networks (ABC, CBS, and NBC) since those networks' early years, indicative 
of the sports' widespread appeal since their inception, continuing today 
additionally with Fox. In Canada, the NHL has been broadcast on the Canadian 
Broadcasting Corporation since 1952. The NFL has the largest TV contracts, 
and earns over $6 billion annually from its contracts with Fox, CBS, NBC, 
ESPN and DirecTV for the 2014 through 2022 seasons.[24] MLB earns $1.5 
billion annually from its contracts with ESPN, Fox, and Turner Sports (TBS) 
for the 2014 through 2021 seasons.[25] In October 2014, the NBA signed 
a nine-year television deal with ESPN and TNT that generates annual league 
TV revenues of $2.66 billion beginning with the 2016–17 season.[26] The 
NHL earns $633 million annually from its media deals—$200m in the U.S. 
with NBC Sports, and $433m in Canada with Rogers Sportsnet.[27][28] All 
four major sports leagues have launched a network of their own—NBA TV in 
1999, the NFL Network in 2003, the NHL Network in Canada in 2001 and in 
the U.S. in 2007, and the MLB Network in 2009. Teams in the MLB, NBA, and 
NHL—which play several days per week—negotiate contracts with local broadcasters 
to air most of their games, both terrestrial networks and regional sports 
networks. Some teams (such as the New York Yankees) may even partially 
or fully own the cable network upon which their games are broadcast, and 
often receive more revenue from local broadcasts than any other source.[citation 
needed] NFL teams, which generally play once per week, do not negotiate 
local broadcast contracts, but are allowed to negotiate their own television 
deals for preseason games with syndication and broadcast stations. MLS 
matches are shown in English on ESPN and FoxSports, and in Spanish on Univision. 
In 2014, MLS signed eight-year contracts for U.S. rights for the 2015–2022 
seasons with ESPN and FoxSports for English language, and with Univision 
for Spanish language, earning a combined $90 million annually.[29][30] 
The CFL is shown on cable TV, but is not broadcast over-the-air terrestrial 
television. The CFL's last over-the-air broadcasts ended in 2007 in Canada 
and 2009 in the United States. Its most recent television deal, an exclusive 
agreement with ESPN and Canadian counterpart TSN, pays at least $30 million 
per year for both Canadian and American rights.[17] Major professional 
sports leagues generally have significantly higher average attendance than 
other sports leagues. The following table shows the average attendance 
of all professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada that 
have an average attendance of 15,000 or higher. The table also shows trends 
in attendance growth or decline. Major-league franchises are generally 
worth very large amounts of money, due in large part to high revenues earned 
by the league's teams.[37] These franchise valuations are reflected in 
periodic analyses of teams' values, as well as by the expansion fees commanded 
by the leagues. Recent expansion franchises have commanded huge entry fees, 
which represent the price the new team must pay to gain its share of the 
existing teams' often guaranteed revenue streams. The Houston Texans paid 
$700 million to join the NFL.[44] By comparison, the Charlotte Bobcats 
(now the Hornets) paid $300 million to join the NBA. The Arizona Diamondbacks 
and Tampa Bay Rays (originally Devil Rays) paid $130 million each to join 
MLB. The upcoming Las Vegas NHL team paid $500 million to join the league, 
a dramatic increase from the $80 million paid by each of the previous two 
teams to enter the NHL, the Columbus Blue Jackets and Minnesota Wild. New 
York City FC paid $100 million to join Major League Soccer.[45] For comparison, 
the Ottawa Redblacks paid C$7 million to join the Canadian Football League[46] 
and the Toronto Argonauts (the most recent CFL team to have come up for 
sale) are believed to have sold for approximately C$10 million,[43] down 
from its original asking price of C$20 million.[47] All of the top four 
major leagues exhibit stability in most of their franchises. No team from 
the top four leagues has collapsed outright since the 1970s. The last team 
to cease operations was the NHL's Cleveland Barons in 1978, when financial 
pressures forced a merger with the Minnesota North Stars. MLB voted in 
2001 to contract from 30 teams to 28, but ran into opposition and never 
executed the contraction plan.[48] Unlike some other leagues in other countries 
which use a system of promotion and relegation, franchises in these leagues 
are stable, and do not change annually. Relocation of teams is generally 
uncommon compared to minor leagues. However, all of the top four major 
leagues have had at least one franchise relocate to another city since 
the 1990s. Among the big four leagues, the NHL has had the highest number 
of recent relocations, relocating three teams during the 1990s and another 
in 2011; it is also the most recent to expand, having added a team in Las 
Vegas that is set to begin play in 2017 (none of the other Big Four leagues 
have added expansion teams since 2004). MLS, being the youngest of the 
major leagues on the continent, has expanded more rapidly than the more 
established Big Four, more than doubling in the number of teams since 2005. 
The league has contracted three teams in its history: teams in Miami and 
Tampa Bay folded in 2002, and the Los Angeles-based Chivas USA squad folded 
in 2014. MLS has had one franchise relocate, the San Jose Earthquakes, 
which became the Houston Dynamo in 2006;[49] the Earthquakes returned as 
an expansion club in 2008, inheriting the pre-relocation history of the 
original Earthquakes.[50] All seven CFL franchises between Vancouver and 
Toronto have been in place since the BC Lions were founded in 1954. The 
league has had problems in the two markets east of Toronto; both Montreal 
and Ottawa have each seen two CFL teams fail since the 1980s, although 
both cities have active teams as of the 2014 season (the cities are now 
represented by the Alouettes and Redblacks, respectively). Among existing 
teams, none has ever formally relocated from one city to another; the Alouettes, 
however, inherited a management structure from the Baltimore Stallions, 
a team from the league's unsuccessful 1990s-era South Division; with the 
exception of two seasons (1994 and 1995) in which the league expanded into 
the United States, the CFL has had either eight or nine teams in operation 
since its inception. Most of the big four leagues have 30 teams (the NFL, 
being the exception, has had 32 teams since 2002), and each has had at 
least 29 teams since the year 2000. Major League Soccer has 20 teams, and 
is scheduled to grow to 22 teams in 2017 and at least 23 in 2018. All of 
the top four major leagues grant some sort of territorial exclusivity to 
their owners, precluding the addition of another team in the same area 
unless the current team's owners consent, which is generally obtained in 
exchange for compensation, residual rights, or both. For example, to obtain 
the consent of Baltimore Orioles to place an MLB team in Washington (about 
35 miles (56 km) away), a deal was struck under the terms of which television 
and radio broadcast rights to Nationals games are handled by the Orioles 
franchise. Regarding territorial rights, the main concern for many team 
owners is television revenue, although the possibility of reduced ticket 
sales remains a concern for some teams. Because the National Football League 
shares all of its television revenue equally, and most of its teams sell 
out their stadiums, some NFL owners are seen as less reluctant to share 
their territories.[citation needed] For example, the return of the NFL 
to Baltimore in 1996 attracted no serious opposition from the Washington 
Redskins organization. Major leagues have franchises placed nationwide, 
with multiple franchises in each of the United States' four census regions—Northeast, 
Midwest, South, and West. Major leagues tend to place franchises only in 
the largest, most populated metropolitan areas. Most major league teams 
are in metro areas having populations over two million. All but seven continental 
U.S. metropolitan areas over one million people host at least one major 
sports franchise. The major leagues typically place two teams per league 
in New York City, Los Angeles, and sometimes in Chicago and the San Francisco 
Bay Area. MLB, more than any other major league, focuses its teams in the 
largest markets. MLB is the only major league that does not have any teams 
in markets with fewer than 1.75 million people; along with the NFL, it 
is one of two leagues with at least one team in every metropolitan area 
with over 4 million people. The NHL is the major league that least follows 
the general trend, due to the fact that a disproportionate number of its 
franchises are in cities with cold winters. The NHL lacks teams in a number 
of southern metropolitan areas with populations of over 3 million (Houston, 
Atlanta, San Diego) but has five teams in northern metropolitan areas with 
fewer than 1.25 million people (Winnipeg, Edmonton, Calgary, Ottawa, Buffalo). 
While only one MLB team, the St. Louis Cardinals, is located in a city 
that does not currently boast an NBA or NFL team, seven NBA teams are located 
in cities devoid of any additional "big four" franchises. The NFL has one 
major exception. The Green Bay Packers survive in major league sports' 
smallest metropolitan area (300,000 population) thanks to a unique community 
ownership, proximity to the neighboring Milwaukee market (giving a combined 
metro area of over two million), a league business model that relies more 
heavily on equally-distributed television revenue that puts small-market 
teams at less of a disadvantage, and the loyalty of their Cheesehead fan 
base. The NHL's national footprint is a relatively recent situation. Historically, 
the league was concentrated in the northeast, with no teams south of New 
York City or west of Chicago from 1935 until 1967. The league expanded 
its footprint westward in a 1967 expansion but, other than the unsuccessful 
Atlanta Flames, avoided the South until making a major expansion into the 
territory in the 1990s. Both the NBA and MLS have higher concentrations 
of teams in the western United States than the other major leagues. Whereas 
the NBA's teams tend to be somewhat more evenly distributed across the 
United States, MLS's presence in areas the southern United States has historically 
been sparse; MLS had no southern-based teams from 2002 to 2014, until MLS 
decided to re-enter the south with teams in Orlando (2015) and Atlanta 
(2017). The CFL had a total of six teams in the United States over a three-year 
period between 1993 and 1995, all in medium-sized markets that lacked an 
NFL team at the time (of the six markets, three had other major league 
franchises at the time), and played occasional games in the United States 
in the 1950s and 1960s. The largest metropolitan area without a major professional 
sports franchise is California's Inland Empire, which is located east of 
Los Angeles and is part of the Los Angeles television market. The largest 
standalone metropolitan area without any major league sports is, depending 
on the definition of standalone, the Hampton Roads region in southeastern 
Virginia or the Greater Austin area of central Texas. The NHL has been 
the dominant professional sports league in Canada, and was first established 
in Canada in 1917. The NHL was initially based entirely in eastern Canada; 
by 1925, Hamilton and Quebec no longer had NHL teams, while Ottawa would 
leave in 1934, by which point American teams were slowly being added. The 
first Canadian expansion team would come in 1970 with a team in Vancouver; 
the NHL later added teams in Edmonton, Winnipeg and Quebec City (through 
absorption of WHA franchises), Calgary (via relocation from Atlanta) and 
Ottawa (via expansion) to go with the still-extant Toronto and Montreal 
teams. The distinctive place hockey holds in Canadian culture allowed these 
franchises to compete with teams in larger cities for some time. However, 
the teams in Winnipeg and Quebec City were eventually moved to larger media 
markets in the U.S. The NHL returned to Winnipeg for the 2011–12 season, 
with the Atlanta Thrashers relocating to become the newest version of the 
Winnipeg Jets. The Canadian Football League has teams in all seven current 
NHL markets, in addition to Hamilton, Ontario and Regina, Saskatchewan. 
At least eight of these nine markets have hosted CFL teams every year since 
the league's officially listed inception in 1958, and no other Canadian 
market has ever had a CFL team of its own. In 2015, the CFL commenced Northern 
Kickoff, originally slated to be one preseason game and later expanded 
to a regular season game as well, both of which were played in Fort McMurray, 
an oil sands boomtown with a metro area population of less than 70,000, 
the smallest market to host major professional football in the modern era. 
Fort McMurray is in relatively close proximity to Edmonton, which was expected 
to boost attendance, but fewer than 5,000 fans attended the regular season 
game. A regular season game was played in Moncton in 2010, 2011 and 2013 
to gauge expansion to the Maritime provinces in what was called Touchdown 
Atlantic. Hamilton played most of their 2013 season in Guelph during the 
construction of Tim Hortons Field. Some U.S.-based leagues, like MLB, MLS, 
and the NBA, have awarded franchises to Canadian cities, though outside 
of Toronto most teams have been unsuccessful. The first Major League Baseball 
team in Canada was the Montreal Expos who began play in 1969. In 2005, 
they moved to Washington, D.C. and became the Washington Nationals. The 
Toronto Blue Jays, who began play in 1977, became the first team outside 
the United States to win the World Series in 1992 and 1993. The NBA expanded 
into Toronto in 1995 when the Raptors joined the league. That same year, 
the Vancouver Grizzlies began play, but moved to Memphis in 2001. MLS has 
teams in Vancouver, Toronto, and Montreal. The NFL is the only major league 
to have no team based in a Canadian city; the closest teams to Canada are 
the Buffalo Bills and Detroit Lions, both representing cities located on 
the U.S.–Canada border. The Bills do not play in the city of Buffalo; their 
stadium is located 21 kilometres (13 mi) south of the Canada–U.S. border. 
The Lions play in downtown Detroit, 2 kilometres (1.2 mi) from Windsor, 
Ontario. From 2008–13 the Bills played a few games in Toronto.[51] All 
four major leagues have strict rules regarding who may own a team, and 
also place some restrictions on what other sort of activities the owners 
may engage in. The major leagues generally do not allow anyone to own a 
stake in more than one franchise, to prevent the perception of being in 
a conflict of interest. This rule was adopted after several high-profile 
controversies involving ownership of multiple baseball teams in the 1890s. 
Additionally, the NHL's "Original Six" period, from 1942 to 1967, was marked 
by the Norris family owning a controlling stake in half of the league's 
teams, a factor in the league's stagnation during that period.[citation 
needed] There have been five exceptions – six including MLS – since 2000 
to this rule in the major leagues, where the league itself has taken ownership 
or control of a franchise: A seventh example can be found in the CFL, when 
the league seized the Ottawa Renegades from owner Bernard Glieberman in 
2006, suspended the franchise, then sold it to Jeff Hunt, who reactivated 
it in 2014 as the Ottawa Redblacks. The NFL (nor any of its predecessors) 
has not taken over operations of any team since 1962, when the American 
Football League took over the nearly bankrupt Titans of New York in an 
effort to prevent the team from folding;[58] in 1963, a new ownership group 
bought the franchise and it became the New York Jets.[59] Many major professional 
sports leagues generally forbid religious groups, governments (there are 
some exceptions), and non-profit organizations owning a team. The NFL has 
stronger ownership restrictions. The NFL forbids ownership by groups of 
over 24 people or publicly-traded corporations, except the grandfathered 
Green Bay Packers. The NFL also forbids its owners from owning any other 
professional American football teams, except Arena Football League teams 
in the NFL team's home market. In addition, NFL owners are permitted to 
own major league baseball, basketball and hockey teams only if they are 
in the NFL team's home market, or are not located in other NFL cities.[60] 
Soccer has been exempt from these restrictions since 1982, when the league 
lost a lawsuit filed by the original NASL.[61] Major League Soccer has 
adopted a different league structure and operates as a single-entity league, 
a structure that survived a lawsuit from the players in Fraser v. Major 
League Soccer. During the first few years of the league, MLS for the sake 
of stability allowed individuals to operate multiple teams. MLS ownership 
arrangements have evolved, however, with operation of the league's 20 teams 
now spread among 20 owners.[62] Most franchises in the Canadian Football 
League are owned by corporations; three teams are owned by public companies, 
and three are held by individual owners. All of the majors have bested 
at least one rival league formed with the intention of being just as "big" 
as the established league, often by signing away star players and by locating 
franchises in cities that were already part of the existing league. In 
many cases, the major leagues have absorbed the most successful franchises 
from its failing rival, or merged outright with it. Baseball's National 
League withstood three challenges in its first quarter century of existence. 
The American Association began in 1882 in several lucrative markets without 
an NL team. For several years, the AA was a viable competitor to the NL, 
and the NL and AA champions competed in an informal World Series. Four 
of the AA's teams defected to the NL in its later years, before the AA 
expired in 1891. Labor problems led to the formation of the Players' League 
for the 1890 season; it attracted a significant percentage of the baseball 
talent and caused the NL and AA significant financial harm,[citation needed] 
but it lacked financial backing and folded after only one season. The minor 
Western League moved several franchises in NL cities and cities abandoned 
by the NL for the 1900 and 1901 seasons, and renamed itself the American 
League in direct competition with the NL. The NL and AL made peace in 1903; 
the resulting agreement formed what today is known as Major League Baseball. 
MLB withstood the challenge of the Federal League in 1914. Various Negro 
Leagues peaked from the 1920s to the 1940s, and on barnstorming tours the 
Negro League players showed themselves to be MLB players' competitive equals, 
but after Jackie Robinson broke the color barrier in 1947, the influx of 
black stars into the major leagues drained the Negro Leagues of talent. 
MLB prevented the Continental League from getting off the ground in 1961–62 
by placing teams in four of that league's proposed cities by either expansion 
or relocation. The NFL has fought off the most rivals throughout the years, 
and to this day faces a competing start-up league every few years. One 
strong rival to the NFL was the All-America Football Conference of 1946–1949; 
three of their seven teams merged with the NFL for the 1950 season, and 
two of the three still exist in the NFL. Four (all unrelated) rivals were 
named American Football League; the last American Football League existed 
from 1960–1970, winning the last two of the four pre-merger Super Bowl 
games, before merging with the NFL in 1970. The NFL has beaten back other 
significant rival football leagues, often placing expansion or relocation 
teams in those cities following that league's demise: the World Football 
League of 1974–1975 (the NFL added two teams in 1975), the United States 
Football League of 1983–1985 (the NFL relocated one team to a USFL market 
in 1988), and the Canadian Football League's American franchises of 1993–1995 
(the NFL added three teams in the mid 1990s, including one in the CFL's 
most successful U.S. market). All told, 13 of the NFL's current 32 franchises 
were absorbed from a rival league—all 10 AFL franchises of the 1960s, two 
from the AAFC, and one from the 1936 AFL. The NBA was formed in 1949 after 
three years of competition between the large-market Basketball Association 
of America (from which the NBA traces its existence) and the industrial-based 
National Basketball League. The NBA also had to fend off two incarnations 
of the American Basketball League, the first being an Eastern circuit that 
predated the NBA, and the second existing from 1961 to 1963, after Abe 
Saperstein was repeatedly denied an NBA expansion team. The NBA later fought 
off the challenge of the American Basketball Association from 1967–76, 
in part by expanding from nine to eighteen teams. The NBA then absorbed 
four of the ABA's most successful franchises in a 1976 merger, and adopted 
several of the ABA's rule variations, most notably the three-point shot. 
The NHL began its existence competing with the Western Canada Hockey League 
and its predecessor, the Pacific Coast Hockey Association; both had folded 
by 1926, leaving the NHL as the sole major North American hockey league. 
The NHL fended off two challenges in the 1960s and 1970s. The NHL prevented 
the old Western Hockey League from achieving parity by doubling in size 
from six to twelve teams in 1967, including into the WHL markets of Los 
Angeles and San Francisco. During its existence from 1972 to 1979, the 
World Hockey Association challenged the dominance of the NHL. The WHA initially 
attracted stars by offering higher salaries than the NHL and successfully 
invalidating the NHL's reserve clause, forcing NHL teams to keep up. The 
bidding war brought financial distress to both leagues. With the WHA and 
several NHL teams faced with collapse, the NHL negotiated a merger of the 
leagues whereby the four strongest WHA teams joined the NHL. The CFL has 
been historically protected from the competing leagues that the NFL faced, 
in part because of threats of parliamentary legislation to stop any CFL 
competitor from being allowed to play in Canada. The Canadian Football 
Act, proposed in 1974 but never passed, would have given the CFL a government-endorsed 
monopoly on professional gridiron football in Canada by prohibiting any 
other league from playing its games in the country; the mere introduction 
of the bill in Parliament prompted the WFL's Toronto Northmen to move to 
the United States before it played a game. All of the major North American 
professional sports leagues use a draft system to assign prospective players 
to teams. Three of the top four major leagues possess sophisticated player 
development systems. The vast majority of MLB players are developed through 
the minor league baseball system. Prospective players generally are drafted, 
and are then assigned to the appropriate minor league level for development. 
With the growth of college baseball and in the past few decades, more players 
opt to play at the collegiate level and delay entry into the MLB draft.[citation 
needed] Individual teams' large scouting staffs have given way to smaller 
staffs and subscriptions to commercial player scouting services. Entering 
the majors directly from high school or college is rare, and most of the 
few that have were quickly reassigned to the minors. MLB clubs have also 
recruited many players from the Japanese leagues, and also sign players 
from Latin American countries. Most of the NBA's talent comes from college 
and high school basketball, although minimum age rules have ended the NBA's 
practice of drafting players directly from high school beginning in 2006. 
The D-League was implemented in 2001 by the NBA to perform the role of 
a farm system in helping with player development and market reach, but 
NBA teams more frequently recruit talent from overseas professional leagues, 
mostly in Europe with a few players being recruited from leagues in Latin 
America, China, and Australia. Prior to the development of the D-League, 
the Continental Basketball Association had served as a minor league to 
the NBA. The National Football League is the only one of the four major 
sports leagues that does not have a formalized farm system. The source 
for almost all NFL players is college football. Drafted players from college 
immediately join the main team; if they fail to make the regular season 
roster, a limited number of players may be assigned to the practice squad. 
NFL teams rarely recruit players from other gridiron football leagues. 
American football also has the least global reach for prospects, with one 
exception being several players from other codes of football primarily 
as kickers and punters. The league's teams backed the World League (later 
known as NFL Europe) in the 1990s and 2000s, and purchased teams in the 
Arena Football League for a period in the 2000s. Each NHL team has an affiliate 
in North America's top-tier minor hockey league, the American Hockey League, 
and most have an affiliation with teams in the ECHL. For decades, the traditional 
route to the NHL has been through junior hockey and the Canadian Hockey 
League (CHL). Beginning in the 1970s, NHL teams began drafting and signing 
prospects from Europe, and a growing number of NHL hopefuls are forgoing 
the CHL in favor of NCAA Division I college hockey.[citation needed] Additionally, 
the U.S. now has two Junior A hockey leagues in the USHL and NAHL that 
provide many NHL players (some via NCAA hockey). Almost all draft picks 
are initially assigned to an affiliate in their NHL team's minor league 
system for development. MLS teams sign players from their youth academies, 
from the college draft, and from overseas. MLS teams rely on their youth 
academies, which are now a requirement for all MLS clubs. MLS clubs can 
operate youth teams as young as 13–14 years old. Even some youth academy 
teams participate in lower-tier leagues. MLS also holds an annual draft 
in which top college soccer players are selected. MLS has a formal relationship 
with the minor-league USL; all MLS teams are now required to field a reserve 
team in USL or affiliate with a separately owned USL team. This allows 
developing MLS players to gain playing experience. The CFL's draft is limited 
to Canadian citizens, plus non-citizens who were raised in Canada. In addition 
to university/college football, the CFL draft also draws players from the 
long-established Canadian Junior Football League and its component leagues. 
The league also draws from the same pool of free agents as the NFL, with 
players who do not make the NFL often going north to seek work in the CFL. 
The CFL requires free agents to sign contracts, and thus stay in the league, 
for a minimum of two years. The average annual salary for players in the 
four major leagues is about US $2.9 million in 2008, although player salaries 
can range from $300,000 for backup players to $20 million for superstars. 
NBA players have the highest average player salaries of the four leagues; 
however, their teams also have the smallest rosters. The NFL has the highest 
average team payroll. However, NFL rosters are far larger than the other 
three leagues (many players on NFL rosters see little actual game play), 
and teams play far fewer games, making their players the lowest paid of 
the Big Four major leagues. After a brief lockout during the 2011 off-season, 
the owners and union signed a new CBA that imposed a hard salary cap of 
$120 million in the 2011 season, but temporarily suspended the salary floor, 
which returned in the 2013 season at 89% of the cap. MLB is now alone among 
the major leagues in that it lacks any form of a salary cap and has enacted 
only modest forms of revenue sharing and luxury taxes. Compared to the 
other leagues, there is a far greater disparity between MLB payrolls. The 
New York Yankees had the highest payroll of any American sports team in 
2006 when they paid $194 million in players' salaries – nearly twice the 
NFL salary cap and nearly thirteen times the payroll of the Florida Marlins 
who spent about $15 million (significantly less than the mandatory minimum 
team payrolls in the NFL and NHL). For the 2010–11 NHL season, the average 
player salary was slightly above the pre-lockout level of US $1.8 million. 
In the same season, the league's salary cap was US $59.4 million per team, 
with the salary floor set at US $16 million under the cap. For the 2016–17 season, 
the cap has been set as US $73 million, with the floor at US $54 million. 
MLS has lower average salaries and smaller payrolls than the other leagues. 
MLS kept a strict rein on player salaries until 2007, when MLS introduced 
the Designated Player Rule, which allows MLS teams to pay higher wages 
for star players. David Beckham was the first player signed under this 
rule. The highest MLS payroll in 2015 was Toronto FC, with $22.8 million.[64] 
The league's average salary is about $283,000 per year.[64] MLS' minimum 
player salary will increase in 2016 from $60,000 to $62,500 for most players.[65][66] 
The CFL has a relatively smaller player salary and salary cap compared 
to the other leagues. The average salary in 2014 is CAD $89,285 and the 
salary cap in 2014 is CAD $5 million. As recently as the 1990s, loopholes 
in the salary cap allowed CFL teams to pay select marquee players a salary 
comparable to their NFL counterparts, but financial problems forced the 
league to close those loopholes. Each of the top four major leagues are 
the premier competitions of their respective sport on the world stage. 
Major League Baseball is increasingly luring away the stars from the Japanese 
leagues, the European hockey leagues have become a major source of star 
talent for National Hockey League clubs, and the National Basketball Association 
frequently recruits talent from professional leagues in Europe, Latin America, 
Australia and China. All four leagues are considered to be the top league 
in their respective sports, not only in revenue, but also in quality of 
talent, player salaries, and worldwide interest. However, of the four major 
leagues, the NFL has the least presence outside both countries; it is mainly 
an American and Canadian interest. Basketball is a strong spectator and 
participation sport in parts of the world, and the NBA is unquestionably 
the top basketball league. Hockey (Europe) and baseball (East Asia, Latin 
America) have loyal followings in some of the world's other regions as 
well. Selling league broadcasting rights to foreign markets is another 
way for the leagues to generate revenue, and all the leagues have tried 
to exploit revenue streams outside of their home market. The NHL is the 
top professional hockey league in the world, as NHL teams routinely defeat 
teams from European leagues, and the NHL attracts top players from European 
leagues. The NHL has been playing exhibition games against European teams 
since 2007 in the "NHL Premiere" series, the NHL Challenge, and the Victoria 
Cup, and NHL teams have won 24 games to the European teams' four. During 
the height of the Cold War the Soviet League had comparable talent to the 
NHL, but since the decline of Communism in Eastern Europe in the late 1980s, 
NHL teams have enticed away most of the elite players from Europe due to 
higher salaries. Major League Soccer is not the premier soccer competition 
in the world, or even in the Americas, in terms of competition success, 
revenues, and players. MLS teams compete with top teams from North America, 
Central America and the Caribbean in the CONCACAF Champions League, with 
Mexican clubs winning the title each year since the current format was 
introduced in the 2008–09 season. MLS has annual revenues of about $300 
million, whereas five European soccer leagues (England, Germany, Spain, 
Italy, and France) have annual revenues in excess of $1 billion. The top 
players from MLS often move to Europe in search of tougher competition 
and higher salaries. However, MLS has steadily improved in international 
stature in recent years. The league implemented the Designated Player Rule 
in 2007, allowing MLS to attract and retain international stars such as 
David Beckham. MLS attendance has increased to the point where MLS average 
attendance is among the top ten soccer leagues worldwide.[67] The introduction 
of soccer-specific stadiums had improved revenue growth. In the late 1940s 
and 1950s, the Canadian Football League (CFL) and the U.S. National Football 
League (NFL) operated on roughly equal footing financially, with even some 
U.S.-born star players joining CFL teams. The situation changed along with 
the rise of the American Football League (AFL) founded in 1959. By the 
end of the 1960s, revenue from the U.S. television market and absorption 
of the AFL helped the NFL become much more successful than its Canadian 
counterpart. By the 1980s, the CFL became virtually unknown outside of 
Canada. Attempts to promote the CFL included the failed CFL USA experiment 
in the 1990s. The CFL's television coverage outside of Canada is primarily 
broadcast by ESPN America, Fox Sports International and the U.S. government's 
American Forces Network. In 2009, a record number of 6.1 million viewers 
watched the CFL's annual Grey Cup championship game,[68] while 151.6 million 
viewers watched the NFL's annual Super Bowl championship game that same 
year.[69] The perceived lack of competition from the rest of the world 
has contributed to the long-standing but controversial practice of the 
North American media referring to the major sports league champions as 
world champions.[70] Today, the phrase is more popular in the United States 
but it retains some acceptance in Canada. However, this practice is usually 
mocked by non-Americans.[71] Usage of the phrase in baseball started with 
organization of championship series between the National League and the 
earlier American Association in the 1880s, later to be known as the World 
Series. Major League Baseball later set up the World Baseball Classic, 
a quadrennial international competition, in an effort to crown a true world 
champion.[72] By the 1950s, the phrase World Champions was also being used 
by the newly formed NBA. The Super Bowl, the interleague championship between 
the NFL and American Football League, was explicitly named a "World Championship 
Game" for its first iteration. In hockey, the Stanley Cup was initially 
open only to Canadian teams, but in 1914, the Cup's trustees allowed American 
teams to compete, with the provision that the Stanley Cup winners were 
to be recognized as World's Champions. The phrase was repeatedly engraved 
on the Cup, and continued to be used, when the NHL began admitting American 
franchises. When the NHL assumed formal control of the Cup in 1947, the 
resulting agreement required "that the winners of this trophy shall be 
the acknowledged World's Professional Hockey Champions" (in contrast to 
the IIHF's Ice Hockey World Championships, at the time contested only by 
amateurs). When the World Hockey Association commenced play in the 1970s, 
they sought to challenge for the Stanley Cup, referring to the 1947 agreement. 
Both the NHL and the Cup trustees rejected the WHA's challenges; nevertheless, 
the NHL quietly stopped calling its champions the World Champions, as by 
this time, the Soviet Championship League was regularly beating the NHL 
in interleague competitions and the IIHF World Championship was opened 
up to professionals by 1976. Since then, the NHL has preferred to call 
their champions the Stanley Cup Champions. The NHL has never resumed using 
the phrase World Champions to honor Stanley Cup winners. Professional sports 
leagues as known today evolved during the decades between the Civil War 
and World War II, when the railroad was the main means of intercity transportation. 
As a result, virtually all major league teams were concentrated in the 
northeastern quarter of the United States, within roughly the radius of 
a day-long train ride, within the Great Lakes and the Northeast regions. 
Early professional soccer activity was concentrated almost entirely on 
an East Coast corridor from Baltimore to Boston, except for the St. Louis 
metropolitan area. There were very few major league teams in the far west 
until after World War II. As travel and settlement patterns changed, so 
did the geography of professional sports. The first west coast major-league 
franchise was the NFL's Los Angeles Rams, who moved from Cleveland in 1946. 
The same year, the All-America Football Conference began play, with teams 
in Los Angeles and San Francisco, and the Miami Seahawks. Baseball extended 
west in 1958 in the move of the Brooklyn Dodgers and New York Giants. The 
NBA followed in 1960 with the move of the Minneapolis Lakers to Los Angeles, 
while the NHL would not have a west coast presence until it expanded in 
1967. Almost all of the NHL's initial franchises in the Southern and Western 
United States were unsuccessful and relocated. From 1982 until 1991, the 
Kings were the only U.S.-based NHL franchise south of St. Louis and/or 
west of the Twin Cities. Since then, as newer, fast-growing Sunbelt areas 
such as Phoenix, Tampa, and Dallas became prominent, the major sports leagues 
have expanded or franchises have relocated to service these communities. 
The National Hockey League was established in 1917 in Canada. When the 
WHA and NHL merged, the NHL inherited teams in three Canadian cities, Edmonton, 
Winnipeg and Quebec City. MLB's first Canadian team was the Montreal Expos, 
a team that was added in 1967; it later added the Toronto Blue Jays a decade 
later. MLS's first was Toronto FC, which was added in 2005; it was soon 
followed by the Montreal Impact and Vancouver Whitecaps. The Toronto Huskies 
were a charter member of the Basketball Association of America in 1946, 
but that team only lasted one season; the NBA would then make a permanent 
expansion into Canada in 1995 when the Toronto Raptors and now-departed 
Vancouver Grizzlies were established. Some of the Big Four sports leagues 
have looked to expand their revenues by playing overseas games in attempt 
to develop a wider international fan base. There has been increasing cooperation 
between the NBA and the Euroleague. In 2005, the two bodies agreed to organize 
a summer competition known as the NBA Europe Live Tour featuring four NBA 
teams and four Euroleague clubs, with the first competition taking place 
in 2006.[73] The NFL has attempted to promote its game worldwide by scheduling 
selected pre-season games abroad since 1976.[74] The NFL had promoted the 
game abroad through NFL Europe, but NFL Europe was unprofitable and ceased 
operations in 2007. The NFL began its International Series, holding at 
least one regular-season game at Wembley Stadium in London every year since 
2007.[75][76] The NFL held three games at Wembley in the 2014 season.[77] 
Since then, Twickenham Stadium, the home of English rugby union, has been 
added as a second London venue, and the primary venue for NFL games in 
London will switch to the new stadium being built by Tottenham Hotspur 
upon its completion in 2018. Some of the major professional sports leagues 
possess other attributes, although these attributes do not distinguish 
major professional leagues from other leagues. In general, sports leagues 
in the United States and Canada never developed any system of promotion 
and relegation like those in Europe. A major factor was the greater distances 
between cities, with some teams separated by at least half the continent, 
which in turn resulted in higher traveling costs. When the National League 
of Professional Base Ball Clubs was established in 1876, its founders judged 
that in order to prosper, they must make baseball's highest level of competition 
a "closed shop", with a strict limit on the number of teams, and with each 
member having exclusive local rights. This guarantee of a place in the 
league year after year would permit each club owner to monopolize fan bases 
in their respective exclusive territories and give them the confidence 
to invest in infrastructure, such as improved ballparks. This in turn would 
guarantee the revenues needed to support traveling across the continent.[78] 
With the introduction of TV exposure and other sources of increased revenue 
during the 20th century, team owners have no incentive to risk giving up 
this annual income in favor of establishing an "open shop system" where 
they could be relegated to a lower league that does not generate that kind 
of lucrative money. There has been discussion on Major League Soccer trying 
to adopt promotion and relegation, but MLS is currently not pursuing the 
option, based on team control on TV rights.[79] Several major sports leagues 
are showcased on a major U.S. holiday. The NFL has always played on Thanksgiving 
Day since its inception in 1920. The NBA has played on Christmas Day since 
1947. And since 2008, the NHL has had the Winter Classic on New Year's 
Day. Furthermore, the CFL has two longstanding holiday events: the Labour 
Day Classic and Thanksgiving Day Classic. Baseball and soccer are not particularly 
associated with any holidays; however, in baseball's case, teams generally 
play on the major summer holidays since MLB teams play almost every day 
during their season. Although they are competitors, the "big four" leagues 
also cooperate. Some owners have teams in multiple leagues; as mentioned 
above, the NFL restricts cross-league ownership but the other leagues do 
not. In the early years of professional basketball, the American Basketball 
League, the de facto major league of the 1920s, was backed primarily by 
NFL owners. There are common business and legal interests; the leagues 
will often support one another in legal matters since the courts' decisions 
might establish precedents that affect them all. One recent example was 
the Supreme Court decision in 2010 in American Needle, Inc. v. National 
Football League, in which the NFL (which ultimately lost the case) received 
amicus curiae briefs from the NBA, NHL, and MLS.[80] The leagues' commissioners 
occasionally meet in person, most recently in 2009.[81] The leagues also 
cooperate in the construction and use of facilities. Many NBA and NHL teams 
share arenas, and, in years past, such sharing was very common for MLB 
and NFL teams, though only one such situation (the Oakland Coliseum, home 
to both the Raiders and Athletics) still exists as of 2016. Multi-purpose 
stadiums were built to accommodate multiple sports in the later half of 
the 20th century. Even in situations where separate stadiums have been 
constructed for each team (as is generally the norm in the 21st century), 
the individual stadiums may be constructed adjacent to each other and share 
parking space and other infrastructure. More recently, MLS teams have used 
NFL and CFL stadiums as either full-time home fields (much less so now, 
due to the league's insistence on soccer-specific stadiums) or for special 
event games. Also notable in recent years have been the NHL's Winter Classic 
and Heritage Classic, which have been held in NFL, CFL, and MLB, as well 
as college football, stadiums. A unique situation is the TD Place Complex 
in Ottawa; the same structure serves as the indoor Ottawa Civic Centre 
(which hosted the NHL's Senators in the 1990s), while on the roof of that 
arena was seating for Frank Clair Stadium (at that time home of the CFL's 
Ottawa Rough Riders; by 2014 the stadium was renovated into TD Place Stadium 
and is now home to the CFL's Ottawa Redblacks). In the early years of the 
NFL and to a lesser extent the NHL, it was not uncommon for teams to share 
nicknames with their MLB counterparts. For example, until 1957 New York 
City played host to baseball and football Giants. MLB's Pittsburgh Pirates 
shared its nickname with an NFL team (which ultimately became the Pittsburgh 
Steelers) as well as a now-defunct early NHL team, while the Canadian football 
team Hamilton Tigers shared a team name with an NHL team. The most recent 
example of two major teams sharing a franchise name was between 1960 and 
1987; when the NFL's Chicago Cardinals relocated to St. Louis, Missouri, 
it was allowed to keep the Cardinals name despite the established existence 
of a baseball team of the same name. As of 2015, MLB also handles the NHL's 
