Major League Baseball on NBC is the de facto branding for weekly broadcasts 
of Major League Baseball (MLB) games produced by NBC Sports, and televised 
on the NBC television network. Major League Baseball games first aired 
on the network from 1947 to 1989, when CBS acquired the broadcast television 
rights; games returned to the network in 1994 with coverage lasting until 
2000. There have been several variations[5] of the program dating back 
to the 1940s, including The NBC Game of the Week and Baseball Night in 
America. From 1947 to 1956 and again in 1965, NBC only aired the All-Star 
Game (beginning in 1950) and World Series. From 1957 to 1989, the network 
aired the Saturday afternoon Game of the Week (or a variation of it prior 
to 1966, when NBC did not hold the exclusive over-the-air television rights). 
From 1994 to 1995, NBC aired games under a joint broadcasting venture with 
Major League Baseball and ABC called The Baseball Network. From 1996 to 
2000, the network's league coverage was reduced to postseason games (three 
Division Series games in prime time, the American League Championship Series 
in even-numbered years, and the National League Championship Series and 
World Series in odd-numbered years), as well as the All-Star Game in even-numbered 
years (during years when NBC did not hold the rights to the World Series). 
NBC television's relationship with Major League Baseball technically dates 
back to August 26, 1939.[6] It was on that particular date that on W2XBS 
(an experimental television station in New York City which would ultimately 
become NBC's flagship station, WNBC), the first-ever Major League Baseball 
game was televised. With Red Barber announcing, the Brooklyn Dodgers and 
the Cincinnati Reds played a doubleheader at Ebbets Field. The Reds won 
the first game 5–2 while the Dodgers won the second, 6–1. Barber called 
the game without the benefit of a monitor and with only two cameras capturing 
the game. One camera was on Barber and the other was behind the plate. 
Barber had to guess from which light was on and where it pointed. By 1947, 
television sets, most with five and seven-inch screens, were selling almost 
as fast as they could be produced. Because of this, Major League teams 
began televising games and attracted a whole new audience into ballparks 
in the process. People who had only casually followed baseball began going 
to the games in person. In 1948, Major League Baseball's total attendance 
reached a record high of 21 million. 1947 also saw the first televised 
World Series.[7] The games were broadcast in the New York City area by 
NBC's WNBT, CBS's WCBS-TV and DuMont's WABD and sponsored by Gillette and 
Ford. The 1947 World Series brought in an estimated 3.9 million viewers, 
becoming television's first mass audience. In addition to New York City, 
live coverage of the Series was also seen on WRGB in Schenectady/Albany, 
WPTZ in Philadelphia, WMAR-TV in Baltimore and WTTG in Washington, D.C. 
In 1948 and 1949, the World Series would be carried on the aforementioned 
stations, as well as on WBZ-TV and WNAC-TV in Boston, WNHC-TV in New Haven 
and WTVR-TV in Richmond, Virginia. In 1949, the World Series was also seen 
live in other Northeastern and Midwestern cities (Harrisburg, Pittsburgh, 
Syracuse, Rochester, Buffalo, Erie, Cleveland, Detroit, Columbus, Cincinnati, 
Dayton, Toledo, Indianapolis, Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Louis) that had 
been hooked up to network lines over the previous year. In 1950, the Mutual 
Broadcasting System acquired the television as well as radio broadcast 
rights to the World Series and All-Star Game for the next six years. Mutual 
may have been reindulging in dreams of becoming a television network or 
simply taking advantage of a long-standing business relationship; in either 
case, the broadcast rights were sold to NBC in time for the following season's 
games at an enormous profit. NBC aired the second and third games of the 
1951 National League tie-breaker series between the Brooklyn Dodgers and 
New York Giants, necessitated by the teams' finishing the regular season 
in a tie for first place. The three-game pennant playoff, which featured 
the first baseball games televised live from coast to coast (with CBS airing 
the first game), culminated on October 3 when the Giants won the third 
and deciding game by the score of 5–4 (off Bobby Thomson's home run). Ernie 
Harwell called the game for Giants television flagship WPIX – the independent 
station's broadcast was simulcast nationally by NBC – and his description 
of the home run was a simple shout of "It's gone!" almost at the moment 
Thomson's bat struck Ralph Branca's pitch. Harwell later admitted he had 
probably called it "too soon", but fortunately for him, the call proved 
to be correct. "And then", Harwell recalled, "the pictures took over."[8] 
The 1951 playoff between Brooklyn and the New York Giants and that year's 
World Series were the first major league baseball games telecast live from 
coast-to-coast; transcontinental network transmission lines had been completed 
and activated in September, in-time for the Japanese Peace Treaty Conference 
in San Francisco and the start of the 1951–52 television season. On January 
31, 1953, the New York Yankees, Cleveland Indians and Boston Red Sox joined 
forces against St. Louis Browns owner Bill Veeck. The respective franchises 
tried to force the Browns to play afternoon games in an attempt to avoid 
having to share television revenues. A month later, Major League Baseball 
owners received a warning from Senator Edwin Johnson about nationally televising 
their games. Johnson's theory was that nationally televising baseball games 
would be a threat to the survival of minor league baseball. The owners 
pretty much ignored Johnson since the games on NBC in particular, were 
gaining a large and loyal following. Another first for NBC during this 
period was the first color telecast of a World Series, the 1955 matchup 
between the Brooklyn Dodgers and the New York Yankees. In 1957,[19] NBC 
started airing weekend Game of the Week telecasts[20][21] (Sunday telecasts 
were added in 1959) with Lindsey Nelson and Leo Durocher calling the action. 
During this period, NBC (as rival CBS had the rights to broadcast at least 
eight teams) typically broadcast from Pittsburgh's Forbes Field, Chicago's 
Wrigley Field or Milwaukee's County Stadium. NBC purchased the rights to 
11 Milwaukee Braves games, 11 Pittsburgh Pirates games, two Washington 
Senators games, and two Chicago Cubs games. Leo Durocher was succeeded 
as color commentator by Fred Haney in 1960, and Joe Garagiola in 1961, 
while Bob Wolff replaced Nelson on play-by-play in 1962. From 1958 to 1960,[22] 
NBC aired a special regional feed of its games in the southeast, where 
the network had a different sponsor (such as National Bohemian beer) than 
for the rest of the country. This feed featured its own announcing team, 
with Chuck Thompson calling the games with Bill Veeck (1958) and Al Rosen 
(1959–60). NBC never had a true backup game until 1966, when the network 
got exclusivity for the Game of the Week. In the process, NBC brought in 
Curt Gowdy and Pee Wee Reese for the primary game, and Jim Simpson and 
Tony Kubek for the alternate game (which was always shown in the markets 
of teams playing in the primary game). As previously mentioned, in 1961, 
NBC hired Joe Garagiola to be their Major League Baseball color commentator. 
The following year, Bob Wolff began working play-by-play. "You work your 
side of the street [interviewing players]", said Garagiola to Wolff "and 
I'll work mine." Wolff liked Garagiola's pizazz as he would say things 
like "the guy stapled him to the bag" or that a runner is "smilin' like 
he swallowed a banana peel." Also in 1962, NBC broadcast the National League 
tie-breaker series between the San Francisco Giants and Los Angeles Dodgers. 
Bob Wolff and George Kell[23] were the announcers for the playoff series. 
Wolff also hosted the pre-game shows for NBC's World Series coverage from 
1962 to 1965. By 1964,[24] CBS' Dizzy Dean and Pee Wee Reese called games 
from Yankee Stadium, Wrigley Field, St. Louis, Philadelphia and Baltimore. 
New York got a US$550,000 payment of CBS' $895,000. Meanwhile, six clubs 
that exclusively played nationally televised games on NBC were paid $1.2 
million. Until 1965[30] (when Major League Baseball made its first ever, 
league-wide regular-season network television deal with ABC), there was 
no league-wide national television package for regular season Major League 
Baseball games. As a result, teams, if they so desired, could sell the 
rights to the networks. Also prior to 1965, regular season Major League 
Baseball telecasts broadcast by networks had to be blacked-out in cities 
with league franchises. More to the point, by around the year prior, thanks 
to expansion (in 1960 and 1961), regular season MLB games shown on network 
television were shutouts in most major markets. However, the network Games 
of the Week, up until the late 1980s, still could not be seen in the two 
cities whose local teams were playing in each respective game. From 1965 
until the late 1980s, networks would cover two Saturday afternoon games 
each week: one that went to most of the network (a "primary game"), and 
the second only being seen in the home markets of the two teams playing 
in the network's "primary" game. Although the "primary" game would not 
be televised in each team's home markets, local television rights-holders 
in those cities were free to broadcast that game. The manner that this 
worked allowed, for instance, a network's two Saturday afternoon Games 
of the Week involving the New York Yankees at the Boston Red Sox serving 
as the primary game and St. Louis Cardinals at the Chicago Cubs being the 
secondary game. The Yankees-Red Sox game would as a result, be seen everywhere 
except in New York City, Boston and possibly markets adjacent to those 
cities. Ultimately, those markets got the Cardinals-Cubs game instead. 
The New York Yankees, which the year before, played 21 Games of the Week 
for CBS, joined NBC's package in 1966. The new package under NBC called 
for 28 games compared to the 123 combined among three networks during the 
1960s. On October 19, 1966, NBC signed a three-year contract with Major 
League Baseball. As previously mentioned, the year before, Major League 
Baseball sold an exclusive league-wide television package for the rights 
to the Saturday-Sunday Game of the Week to ABC. NBC only covered the All-Star 
Game and World Series in 1965. In addition, a previous deal limited CBS 
to covering only twelve weekends when its new subsidiary, the New York 
Yankees, played at home. As previously mentioned, before 1965, NBC aired 
a slate of Saturday afternoon games beginning in 1957. Under the new deal, 
NBC paid roughly US$6 million per year for the 25 Games of the Week,[31] 
$6.1 million for the 1967 World Series and All-Star Game, and $6.5 million 
for the 1968 World Series and 1968 All-Star Game. This brought the total 
value of the contract (which included three Monday night telecasts such 
as a Labor Day 1966 contest between the San Francisco Giants and Los Angeles 
Dodgers) up to $30.6 million. On April 16, 1966, in New York City, about 
50 baseball, network and advertising officials discussed NBC's first year 
with the Game of the Week. New York could not get a primary match-up between 
the Detroit Tigers and New York Yankees with Curt Gowdy and Pee Wee Reese 
calling the action because of local blackout rules. Instead, that market 
received a backup game (or "'B' game") featuring Tony Kubek and Jim Simpson 
calling a game between the Cincinnati Reds and Chicago Cubs. That rule 
would be eliminated after the 1983 season. In replacing CBS, NBC traded 
a circus for a seminar. Reese said "Curt Gowdy was its guy (1966–75), and 
didn't want Dizzy Dean[32] – too overpowering. Curt was nice, but worried 
about mistakes. Diz and I just laughed." Falstaff Brewery hyped Dean as 
Gowdy in return said "I said, 'I can't do "Wabash Cannonball." Our styles 
clash--" then came Pee Wee Reese. Gowdy added by saying about the pairing 
between him and Reese "They figured he was fine with me, and they'd still 
have their boy." To many, baseball meant CBS' 1955–64 Game of the Week 
thoroughbred. A year later, NBC bought ABC's variant of a mule so to speak. 
"We had the Series and All-Star Game. 1966–1968's Game meant exclusivity", 
said NBC Sports head Carl Lindemann, who added that "[Colleague] Chet Simmons 
and liked him [Gowdy] with the Sox and football" also, getting two network 
sports for the price of one. As his analyst, Gowdy wanted his friend Ted 
Williams. NBC's lead sponsor, Chrysler declined the idea when Williams, 
a Sears spokesman, was pictured putting stuff in a Ford truck. Before 1966, 
local announcers exclusively called the World Series. Typically, the Gillette 
Company, the Commissioner of Baseball and NBC television would choose the 
announcers, who would represent each of the teams that were in the World 
Series for the respective year. For the 1966 World Series, Curt Gowdy[33] 
called half of each game before ceding the microphone to Vin Scully in 
Los Angeles, and Chuck Thompson in Baltimore. Scully was not satisfied 
with the arrangement[34] as he said "What about the road? My fans won't 
be able to hear me." In Game 1 of the 1966 World Series, Scully called 
the first 4½ innings. When Gowdy inherited the announcing reigns, Scully 
was so upset that he refused to say another word. Tony Kubek initially 
had trouble adjusting to the world of broadcasting. Although he had a lot 
to say, he was gangling, he tended to stutter, and talked too fast. Gowdy 
soon suggested to Kubek that he should work offseason to improve his delivery. 
Buying a recorder, Kubek often read poetry aloud for 20 minutes a day. 
In 1968, Kubek wowed as a World Series field reporter. Pee Wee Reese, who 
was soon fired by NBC (and replaced by Kubek as the top analyst) said of 
Kubek "He wormed his way around, but I wasn't bitter. I just think if you 
don't have anything to say, you should shut your mouth." In 1971, Sandy 
Koufax signed a ten-year contract with NBC for $1 million to serve as a 
broadcaster on the Saturday Game of the Week. Koufax never felt comfortable 
being in front of the camera, and quit before the 1973 season. On October 
13, 1971, the World Series held a night game for the very first time.[37] 
Commissioner Bowie Kuhn, who felt that baseball could attract a larger 
audience by featuring a prime time telecast (as opposed to a mid-afternoon 
broadcast, occurring when most fans either worked or attended school), 
pitched the idea to NBC. An estimated 61 million people watched Game 4 
on NBC; television ratings for a World Series game during the daytime hours 
would not have approached such a record number. For World Series night 
games, NBC normally began baseball coverage at 8:00 p.m. Eastern Time with 
a pre-game show (with first pitch occurring around 8:20 to 8:25 p.m.). 
However, in 1986 and 1988, for Game 5 of the World Series (on Thursday 
night), NBC's coverage did not begin until 8:30. This allowed the network 
to air its highly rated sitcom The Cosby Show in its normal Thursday 8:00 p.m. 
timeslot. NBC went with carrying a very short pre-game show and got to 
first pitch at around 8:40 p.m. Eastern Time. In 1972,[38] NBC began televising 
prime time regular-season games on Mondays, under a four-year contract 
worth $72 million. In 1973, NBC extended the Monday night telecasts (with 
a local blackout) to 15 consecutive games. NBC's last Monday Night Baseball 
game aired on September 1, 1975, in which the Montréal Expos beat the Philadelphia 
Phillies, 6–5. Curt Gowdy called the games with Tony Kubek from 1972 to 
1974, being joined in the 1973 and 1974 seasons by various guest commentators 
from both within and outside of the baseball world (among them Dizzy Dean, 
Joe DiMaggio, Satchel Paige, Bobby Riggs, Dave DeBusschere, Howard Cosell, 
Mel Allen, Danny Kaye and Willie Mays). Jim Simpson and Maury Wills called 
the secondary backup games. Joe Garagiola hosted the pre-game show, The 
Baseball World of Joe Garagiola, and teamed with Gowdy to call the games 
in 1975. During NBC's telecast of the Monday night Dodgers–Braves game 
on April 8, 1974, in which Hank Aaron hit his record-breaking 715th career 
home run,[39] Kubek criticized Commissioner Bowie Kuhn on-air for failing 
to be in attendance at Fulton County Stadium in Atlanta on that historic 
night; Kuhn argued that he had a prior engagement that he could not break. 
Starting in 1975, Joe Garagiola and Curt Gowdy alternated as the Saturday 
Game of Week play-by-play announcers with Tony Kubek doing color analysis. 
Then on weeks in which NBC had Monday Night Baseball, Gowdy and Garagiola 
worked together. One would call play-by-play for 4½ innings, the other 
would handle color analysis. Then in the bottom of the 5th inning, their 
roles switched. Ultimately, in November 1975, Chrysler forced NBC to totally 
remove Curt Gowdy from NBC's top baseball team. Instead, the company wanted 
their spokesman, Joe Garagiola, to call all "A" regular season games, All-Star 
Games (when NBC had them), the top League Championship Series (when NBC 
had it), and the World Series (when NBC had it). NBC hoped that, in replacing 
Curt Gowdy, Joe Garagiola's charm and unorthodox dwelling on the personal 
would stop the decade-long ratings dive for the Game of the Week. Instead, 
the ratings bobbed from 6.7 (1977) via 7.5 (1978) to 6.3 (1981–82). "Saturday 
had a constituency but it didn't swell" said NBC Sports executive producer 
Scotty Connal. Some believed that millions missed Dizzy Dean while local-team 
television broadcasters split the audience. Scotty Connal believed that 
the team of Joe Garagiola and Tony Kubek were "A great example of black 
and white". Connal added by saying "A pitcher throws badly to third, Joe 
says, 'The third baseman's fault.' Tony: 'The pitcher's'." Media critic 
Gary Deeb termed theirs "the finest baseball commentary ever carried on 
network TV." Another factor behind Gowdy's dismissal was because of criticism 
from the national media alleging that he sided with the Boston Red Sox 
(a franchise that he had covered prior to his days at NBC) over a controversial 
play in the 10th inning of Game 3 of the 1975 World Series. Cincinnati 
Reds pitcher Ed Armbrister reached base on what was ruled an error by Red 
Sox catcher Carlton Fisk on Armbrister's bunt attempt. Gowdy said numerous 
times that, in his opinion, Armbrister had interfered with Fisk. Gowdy 
had been given the correct interpretation by NBC Radio Producer Jay Scott 
(who was a Triple-A fill-in umpire at the time as well), but did not use 
it.[40] Umpire Larry Barnett claimed he had received death threats on account 
of Gowdy's criticism. More to the point, Tony Kubek, on the NBC telecast, 
immediately charged that Armbrister interfered (with the attempted forceout), 
even though home plate umpire Barnett did not agree. Later, Kubek got 1,000 
letters dubbing him a Boston stooge. Prior to Game 2 of the 1986 World 
Series, NBC did a feature on replays narrated by Bob Costas. One of the 
plays cited by Costas was the Armbrister play, and Barnett and Costas both 
insisted that Barnett had made the correct call, although Barnett declared, 
"You won't find many people in Boston who believe it was the right call." 
Costas used the feature to condemn the suggested notion of instant replay 
to settle calls, noting that it was the "same kind of mentality that adds 
color to classic movies and calls it progress." While Gowdy was on hand 
in the press box for Carlton Fisk's legendary home run in Game 6 of the 
1975 World Series,[41] the actual calls went to two of Gowdy's Red Sox 
successors, Dick Stockton on television and Ned Martin on radio. Gowdy 
was Martin's color commentator on that home run. Meanwhile, according to 
the NBC cameraman Lou Gerard located above the third base stands, cameramen 
at the time were instructed to follow the flight of the ball. Instead Gerard 
was distracted by a rat nearby, thus he lost track of the baseball and 
instead decided to capture the image of Fisk "magically" waving the ball 
fair.[42] On June 18, 1977, in the New York Yankees' 10–4 loss to the Boston 
Red Sox in a nationally televised game at Fenway Park in Boston, Jim Rice, 
a powerful hitter but a slow runner, hit a ball into right field that Reggie 
Jackson seemed to get to without much speed, and Rice reached second base. 
Furious, Yankees manager Billy Martin removed Jackson from the game without 
even waiting for the end of the inning, sending Paul Blair out to replace 
him. When Jackson arrived at the dugout, Martin yelled that Jackson had 
shown him up. The two men argued, and Jackson said that Martin's heavy 
drinking had impaired his judgment. Despite Jackson being eighteen years 
younger, about two inches taller and maybe 40 pounds heavier, Martin lunged 
at him, and had to be restrained by coaches Yogi Berra and Elston Howard. 
Red Sox fans could see this in the dugout and began cheering wildly; NBC 
television cameras showed the confrontation to the entire country. Under 
the initial agreement with ABC, NBC and Major League Baseball (running 
through the 1976 to 1979 seasons), both networks paid $92.8 million for 
the league broadcast rights. ABC paid $12.5 million per year to show 16 
Monday night games in 1976, 18 in the next three years, plus half the postseason 
(the League Championship Series in even-numbered years and World Series 
in odd-numbered years). NBC paid $10.7 million per year to show 25 Saturday 
Games of the Week and the other half of the postseason (the League Championship 
Series in odd-numbered years and World Series in even-numbered years). 
Major League Baseball media director John Lazarus said of the new arrangement 
between NBC and ABC "Ratings couldn't get more from one network so we approached 
another." NBC's Joe Garagiola was not very fond of the new broadcasting 
arrangement at first saying "I wished they hadn't got half the package. 
Still, 'Game', half of the postseason – we got lots left." By 1980, income 
from television broadcasts accounted for a record 30% of the game's $500 
million in revenues. The 1980 World Series is tied with the 1978 Series 
for having the highest overall television ratings for a World Series to 
date, with the six games averaging a Nielsen rating of 32.8 and a share 
of 56.[45] In 1981, as a means to recoup revenue lost during a players' 
strike, Major League Baseball set up a special additional playoff round 
(as a prelude to the League Championship Series). ABC televised the American 
League Division Series while NBC televised the National League Division 
Series.[46] The Division Series round would not be officially instituted 
until 14 years later. Games 1, 3 and 5 of the Phillies/Expos series and 
Games 2, 3 and 5 of the Dodgers/Astros series were regionally televised. 
Even though Dick Enberg did play-by-play for the 1981 NLCS for NBC (working 
alongside Tom Seaver), Merle Harmon was, for the most part, NBC's backup 
baseball play-by-play announcer (serving behind Joe Garagiola, who called 
that year's ALCS for NBC with Tony Kubek) in 1981. Harmon's broadcast partner 
during this period was Ron Luciano.[47] In late 1979, Harmon left the Milwaukee 
Brewers completely in favor of a multi-year pact with NBC. Harmon saw the 
NBC deal as a perfect opportunity since according to The Milwaukee Journal 
he would make more money, get more exposure, and do less traveling. At 
NBC, Harmon did SportsWorld, the backup Game of the Week, and served as 
a field reporter for the 1980 World Series. Harmon most of all, had hoped 
to cover the American boycotted 1980 Summer Olympics from Moscow. After 
NBC pulled out of their scheduled coverage of the 1980 Summer Olympics, 
Harmon considered it to being "a great letdown." To add insult to injury, 
NBC fired Harmon in 1982 in favor of Bob Costas.[48] According to his autobiography, 
Oh My,[49] Dick Enberg (then the lead play-by-play voice for The NFL on 
NBC) was informed by NBC that he would become the lead play-by-play voice 
of the Major League Baseball Game of the Week beginning with the 1982 World 
Series (sharing the play-by-play duties for that game with Joe Garagiola, 
alongside analyst Tony Kubek) and through subsequent regular seasons. Enberg 
wrote that on his football trips, he would read every edition of The Sporting 
News to make sure he was current with all the baseball news and notes. 
He then met with NBC executives in September 1982, who informed him that 
Vin Scully[50][51] was in negotiations to be their lead baseball play-by-play 
announcer (teaming with Garagiola, while Kubek would team with Bob Costas[52]) 
and would begin with the network in the spring of 1983. Therefore, rather 
than throw him in randomly for one World Series, Enberg wrote that he hosted 
the pre-game/post-game shows while the team of Joe Garagiola and Tony Kubek 
did the games. According to the book, Enberg was not pleased about the 
decision (since he loved being the California Angels' radio voice in the 
1970s and was eager to return to baseball) but the fact that NBC was bringing 
in Scully, arguably baseball's best announcer, was understandable. Enberg 
added that NBC also gave him a significant pay increase as a pseudo-apology 
for not coming through on the promise to make him the lead baseball play-by-play 
announcer. On April 7, 1983, Major League Baseball agreed to terms with 
ABC and NBC on a six-year television package, worth $1.2 billion. The two 
networks would continue to alternate coverage of the playoffs (ABC in even-numbered 
years and NBC in odd-numbered years), World Series (ABC would televise 
the World Series in odd-numbered years and NBC in even-numbered years) 
and All-Star Game (ABC would televise the All-Star Game in even-numbered 
years and NBC in odd-numbered years) through the 1989 season, with each 
of the 26 clubs receiving $7 million per year in return (even if no fans 
showed up). This was a substantial increase over the last package, in which 
each club was being paid $1.9 million per year. ABC contributed $575 million 
for the rights to televise prime time and Sunday afternoon regular season 
games and NBC paid $550 million for the rights to broadcast 30 Saturday 
afternoon games.[57] USA Network's coverage became a casualty of the new 
$1.2 billion television contract between Major League Baseball, ABC and 
NBC. One of the provisions to the new deal was that local telecasts that 
aired opposite network games had to be eliminated.[58] Through the deal, 
the two networks paid $20 million in advance for the 1983 season; both 
networks paid a total of $126 million in 1984 (NBC $70 million and ABC 
$56 million). For the 1985 season, the rights fee totaled $136 million 
(with NBC paying $61 million and ABC paying $75 million), although the 
networks got $9 million when Major League Baseball expanded the League 
Championship Series from a best-of-five to a best-of-seven in 1985. The 
total rights fee increased to $141 million for 1986 (NBC $75 million, ABC 
$66 million), $171 million for 1987 (NBC $81 million, ABC $90 million) 
and then to $186 million for the 1988 (NBC $90 million, ABC $96 million). 
For the final year of the contract in 1989, NBC paid a fee of $106 million 
and ABC paid $125 million to the league, with the total rising to $231 
million. 1984 was the first year that the Game of the Week was not subject 
to blackout. NBC and ABC generally still aired two games each week, with 
a primary game carried to most of the country and a secondary game to mostly 
the markets that would carry that game. This was mostly done for insurance 
in the event that a game was rained out. During the 1970s and early 1980s, 
many of the "rainout insurance" games involved the Houston Astros since 
that team played in a domed ballpark. Therefore, if the Astros were at 
home on a given Saturday or Monday night, then it was a safe bet that the 
game would be shown on network television, due to the Astros being the 
only "dome" team (until the Seattle Mariners began play in the Kingdome 
in 1977). The New York Times observed the performance of the team of Vin 
Scully and Joe Garagiola by saying "The duo of Scully and Garagiola is 
very good, and often even great, is no longer in dispute." A friend of 
Garagiola's said "he understood the cash" concerning 407% hike in Major 
League Baseball fees paid by NBC for the 1984–89 contract. At this point 
the idea was basically summarized as Vin Scully "being the star", whereas 
Joe Garagiola was Pegasus[clarification needed] or NBC's junior light. 
When NBC inked a six-year, $550 million contract in the fall of 1982, a 
return on the investment so to speak demanded Vin Scully to be their star 
baseball announcer. Scully reportedly made $2 million a year during his 
time with NBC in the 1980s. NBC Sports head Thomas Watson said about Scully, 
"He is baseball's best announcer. Why shouldn't he be ours?" Dick Enberg 
mused "No room for me. 'Game' had enough for two teams a week." Henry Hecht 
once wrote "NBC's Curt Gowdy, Tony Kubek, and Monte Moore sounded like 
college radio rejects vs. Scully." Vin Scully earned approximately $2 million 
per year for his NBC baseball broadcasting duties. Scully also reworked 
his Dodgers schedule during this period, as he would only broadcast home 
games on the radio and road games for television. When Tony Kubek first 
teamed with Bob Costas in 1983, Kubek said "I'm not crazy about being assigned 
to the backup game, but it's no big ego deal." Costas said about working 
with Kubek "I think my humor loosened Tony, and his knowledge improved 
me." The team of Costas and Kubek proved to be a formidable pair. There 
were even some who preferred the team of Kubek and Costas over the musings 
of Vin Scully and the asides of Joe Garagiola. Costas was praised by fans 
for both his reverence and irreverence while Kubek was praised for his 
technical approach and historical perspective. One of the pair's most memorable 
broadcasts was the "Sandberg Game" on June 23, 1984. Bob Costas considered 
the Game of the Week his dream job saying "You can put a personal stamp 
on a baseball broadcast, be a reporter, something of a historian, a storyteller, 
conversationalist, dispenser of opinion." Ratings for the Game of the Week 
had dropped from an average of 6.1 in 1984 to 5.5 in 1988 and an average 
of 4.8 by July 1989. According to a Major League Baseball report, an average 
of fewer than five million households viewed the Saturday afternoon Game 
of the Week in 1988. In an effort to push the ratings higher, NBC tried 
to feature a club from one of the major media markets.[59] Of the 32 games 
it aired during 1988, only three did not feature a club from New York City, 
Chicago or Los Angeles.[60] NBC also would normally television two prime 
time games during the regular season (not including All-Star Games). Generally, 
NBC would broadcast one game on a Tuesday and the other on a Friday. They, 
however, would have to compete against local teams' over-the-air broadcasts, 
putting NBC at risk of hampering its ratings. After calling the 1988 World 
Series with Vin Scully, Joe Garagiola resigned from NBC Sports.[79][80][81] 
Although it was not official at the time, NBC was on the verge of losing 
the television rights to cover Major League Baseball to CBS.[82][83][84][85] 
Garagiola claimed that NBC left him "twisting" while he was trying to renegotiate 
his deal. Joe Garagiola was replaced by Tom Seaver[86][87] for the 1989 
season.[88] NBC's final Major League Baseball broadcast was televised on 
October 9, 1989; Game 5 of the National League Championship Series between 
the San Francisco Giants and Chicago Cubs from Candlestick Park. Vin Scully 
said "It's a passing of a great American tradition. It is sad. I really 
and truly feel that. It will leave a vast window, to use a Washington word, 
where people will not get Major League Baseball and I think that's a tragedy. 
It's a staple that's gone. I feel for people who come to me and say how 
they miss it,[89] and I hope me." Bob Costas[90] said that he would rather 
do a Game of the Week that got a 5 rating than host a Super Bowl. "Who 
thought baseball killed its best way to reach the public? It coulda kept 
us and CBS – we'd have kept the 'Game'[91] – but it only cared about cash. 
Whatever else I did, I'd never have left 'Game of the Week' Costas claimed. 
Tony Kubek,[92] who (as previously mentioned) teamed with Bob Costas since 
1983, said "I can't believe it!" when the subject came about NBC losing 
baseball for the first time since 1947. Author and presidential speechwriter 
Curt Smith went a step further in saying that Major League Baseball's deal 
with CBS Sports was "sportscasting's Exxon Valdez." Had baseball valued 
national promotion provided by the Game of the Week, said Smith, it never 
would have crafted a fast-bucks plan that has cut off the widest viewership. 
"It's an obscene imbalance", Smith also said, "to have 175 games going 
to 60 percent of the country [in reference to Major League Baseball's corresponding 
cable television deal with ESPN, which at the time was only available in 
about 60% of the country] and 16 games going to the rest." He added: "Baseball 
has paid a grievous price for being out of sight and out of mind. It's 
attacked the lower and middle classes that forms baseball's heart. . . 
. In the end, the advertising community has come to view baseball as a 
leper."[93] Arthur Watson, president of NBC Sports, said in a statement 
that NBC had "aggressively" bid to continue its 41-year involvement in 
baseball (NBC's bid was reportedly in the $800 million range[94]) and was 
"deeply saddened" when learning of CBS' deal.[95] After NBC lost the Major 
League Baseball package to CBS, the network aggressively counterprogrammed[96][97] 
CBS' postseason baseball coverage with made-for-TV movies and miniseries 
geared towards female viewers.[98] Since this is indeed...a sad moment 
for us as we sever our relationship with baseball...for a while at least, 
we would like to ask your indulgence and let us take this time to thank 
a lot of people! And to all of the marvelous and wonderful cameramen and 
technicians who have represented NBC...over the 42 years of baseball broadcasts...and 
I think that can sum it up, each and everyone of us...we gave it our best 
shot! As did the Giants and the Cubs! And it's the Giants who go to the 
World Series, beating the Cubs 3 to 2. And we get the BART Series, the 
Bay Area Rapid Transit, the series that will be played in the memory of 
A. Bartlett Giamatti. There's a sweetness to that thought! It's over for 
us...time to surrender the stage...and the Giants have won the pennant! 
For Tom Seaver and for Mike Schmidt, this is Vin Scully saying so long...for 
the last time...from San Francisco! To those of you at NBC, for 41 years 
you made this an art form! And to people especially like Curt Gowdy, Sr., 
the fabulous announcer...to the Hall of Fame director Harry Coyle...and 
down through the years...to Tony Kubek and the people of the present like 
Bob Costas and all the men and women at NBC, at the peacock...take a bow, 
you were terrific! After a four-year hiatus, ABC and NBC[113] returned 
to Major League Baseball under the umbrella of a revenue sharing venture 
called "The Baseball Network". The Baseball Network kicked off its coverage 
on July 12, 1994, with the All-Star Game[114] out of Three Rivers Stadium 
in Pittsburgh. The game was televised on NBC with Bob Costas, Joe Morgan 
and Bob Uecker calling the action, and Greg Gumbel hosting the pre-game 
show. Helping with the interviews were Hannah Storm and Johnny Bench. The 
1994 All-Star Game reportedly sold out all its advertising slots; this 
was considered an impressive financial accomplishment, given that one 30-second 
spot cost $300,000. After the All-Star Game, NBC was scheduled to televise 
six regular season games on Fridays or Saturdays in prime time. The networks 
had exclusive rights for the twelve regular season dates, in that no regional 
or national cable service or over-the-air broadcaster may telecast a Major 
League Baseball game on those dates. In even-numbered years, NBC would 
have the rights to the All-Star Game and both League Championship Series, 
while ABC would have the World Series and newly created Division Series.[115] 
In odd-numbered years, the postseason and All-Star Game television rights 
were supposed to alternate. The long-term plans for The Baseball Network 
crumbled when the Major League Baseball Players' Association went on strike 
on August 12, 1994 (thus forcing the cancellation of the World Series). 
In July 1995, ABC and NBC, which wound up having to share the duties of 
televising the 1995 World Series as a way to recoup (with ABC broadcasting 
Games 1, 4 and 5, and NBC broadcasting Games 2[116] 3,[117] and 6[118]), 
announced that they were opting out of their agreement with Major League 
Baseball. Both networks figured that as the delayed 1995 baseball season[119] 
opened without a labor agreement, there was no guarantee against another 
strike. Both networks soon publicly vowed to cut all ties with Major League 
Baseball for the remainder of the 20th century. Five years after The Baseball 
Network dissolved, NBC Sports play-by-play announcer Bob Costas wrote in 
his book Fair Ball: A Fan's Case for Baseball that The Baseball Network 
was stupid and an abomination. Costas wrote that the agreement involving 
the World Series being the only instance of The Baseball Network broadcasting 
a national telecast, believed that it was an unprecedented surrender of 
prestige, as well as a slap to all serious fans. Unlike the National Hockey 
League and the National Basketball Association the so-called "Big Two" 
of North American professional sports leagues, the National Football League 
and Major League Baseball had nationally televised all playoff games for 
decades. While he believed that The Baseball Network fundamentally corrupted 
the game (except in Costas' point-of-view, the sense that the fans held 
steadfast, spaniel-like loyalty), Costas himself acknowledged that the 
most impassioned fans in baseball were now prevented from watching many 
of the playoff games they wanted to see. Costas added that both the divisional 
series and the League Championship Series now merited scarcely higher priority 
than regional coverage provided for a Big Ten football game between Wisconsin 
and Michigan. Despite of the failure of The Baseball Network, NBC decided 
to retain its relationship with Major League Baseball, but on a far more 
restricted basis. Under the five-year deal signed on November 7, 1995[120] 
(running from the 1996 to 2000 seasons) for a total of approximately $400 
million, NBC did not televise any regular season games. Instead, NBC only 
handled the All-Star Game, three Division Series[121] games[122] (on Tuesday,[123] 
Friday and Saturday nights), and the American League Championship Series 
in even-numbered years and the World Series,[124] three Division Series 
games (also on Tuesday, Friday and Saturday nights) and the National League 
Championship Series[125] in odd-numbered years. Fox, which assumed ABC's 
portion of the league broadcast television rights, gained the rights to 
the Saturday Game of the Week during the regular season, in addition to 
alternating rights to the All-Star Game, League Championship Series (the 
ALCS in odd-numbered years and the NLCS in even-numbered years), Division 
Series and the World Series.[126][127] Also around this particular period, 
NBC adapted composer Randy Edelman's theme from the short-lived Fox series 
The Adventures of Brisco County, Jr. as the main theme music[123] for its 
baseball telecasts. However, NBC used Edelman's "Emotions Run High" from 
the film The Big Green as the theme[128] for the network's coverage[129] 
of the 1996 All-Star Game.[130] In 1997,[131] just before the start of 
NBC's coverage of the World Series, Don Ohlmeyer, president of the network's 
West Coast entertainment division and former executive producer for NBC 
Sports, came under fire after publicly announcing that he hoped that the 
World Series would end in a four-game sweep.[132] Ohlmeyer[133] believed 
that baseball now lacked broad audience appeal (especially in the aftermath 
of the 1994–95 Major League Baseball strike). As opposed to teams from 
the three largest television markets (New York City, Los Angeles and Chicago) 
in the U.S., the 1997 World Series[134] featured the matchup of the upstart 
Florida Marlins and the Cleveland Indians, which made their second World 
Series appearance in three years. In addition, Ohlmeyer feared that the 
World Series would disrupt NBC's efforts to attract enough viewers for 
its new fall roster in order to stay on top of the ratings heap. Ohlmeyer 
said "If the A&E channel called, I'd take the call." Game 5 fell on a Thursday, 
which had long been the highest rated night on NBC's schedule,[135][136] 
if not on all of television. In 1998, Bob Uecker abruptly left NBC Sports 
before a chance to call the All-Star Game[137][138] from Coors Field in 
Colorado. Uecker underwent a back operation in which four discs were replaced. 
For the remainder of the contract (1998–2000), only Bob Costas and Joe 
Morgan[139] called the games. Also in 1998, NBC's coverage of the ALCS 
was the highest rated for any League Championship Series since before the 
1994 strike. NBC averaged a 9.4 rating for the six games, which was a 6% 
increase than the network's coverage of the 1997 NLCS in the same time 
slot. The rating was 13% more than Fox's ALCS coverage in 1997 and 12% 
more than NBC's coverage in 1996. In 1999,[140] NBC field reporter Jim 
Gray, who had previously covered Major League Baseball for CBS, came under 
fire for a confrontational interview with banned all-time hit king Pete 
Rose.[141] Just prior to the start of Game 2 of the World Series,[142] 
Gray pushed Rose – on hand (by permission of Commissioner Bud Selig) at 
Turner Field in Atlanta as a fan-selected member of MasterCard's All-Century 
Team – to admit to having wagered on baseball games as manager of the Cincinnati 
Reds ten years earlier. After NBC was flooded with tons of viewer complaints, 
Gray was forced to clarify his actions to the viewers at home prior to 
Game 3. Regardless of Gray's sincerity, Game 3 hero Chad Curtis of the 
New York Yankees boycotted Gray's request for an interview live on camera;[143] 
Curtis had hit a game-winning home run to send the World Series 3–0 in 
the Yankees' favor. Curtis said to Gray, "Because of what happened with 
Pete, we decided not to say anything."[144][145] Despite the heavy criticism 
he received, Gray offered no apology for his line of questioning toward 
Rose: Although Dick Ebersol (then-president of NBC Sports)[147] and Keith 
Olbermann – among others – have maintained that Gray was simply doing his 
job,[148] it should be noted that in 2004, Pete Rose would admit to betting 
on baseball (along with other sports) while he was the manager of the Cincinnati 
Reds.[149] In 2000, NBC was caught in the dilemma of having to televise 
a first-round playoff game between the New York Yankees and Oakland Athletics 
over the first presidential debate between George W. Bush and Al Gore. 
NBC decided to give its local stations the option of carrying the debate 
or the baseball game.[150] If an NBC affiliate decided to carry the debate, 
then the Pax TV affiliate in their local market could carry the game. NBC 
also placed a crawl at the bottom of the screen to inform viewers that 
they could see the debate on its sister channel MSNBC. On the other end, 
Fox said that it would carry baseball on the two nights when its schedule 
conflicted with the presidential or vice presidential debates. NBC spokeswoman 
Barbara Levin said "We have a contract with Major League Baseball. The 
commission was informed well in advance of their selecting the debate dates. 
If we didn't have the baseball conflict we would be televising it." Although 
there has not been confirmation, anecdotal reports indicated that many 
NBC affiliates in swing states (such as Michigan, Ohio and Pennsylvania) 
chose to air the debate over the baseball game. This is an option that 
CBS affiliates did not have in 1992, when that network refused to break 
away from Game 4 of the American League Championship Series (which had 
gone into extra innings) to the first Clinton–Bush–Perot debate. Like NBC 
and Fox would do in 2000, CBS cited its contract with Major League Baseball. 
During NBC's coverage of the 2000 Division Series between the New York 
Yankees and Oakland Athletics, regular play-by-play announcer Bob Costas 
decided to take a breather after anchoring NBC's prime time coverage of 
the Summer Olympic Games from Sydney. In Costas' place was Atlanta Braves 
announcer Skip Caray,[151][152][153] who teamed with Joe Morgan before 
Costas' return for the ALCS. It wasn't just Costas but all of NBC's production 
crews who were down in Sydney. The Olympics ended just two or three days 
before the MLB playoffs started that year, so the TBS crew worked the Division 
Series games for NBC. In September 2000, Major League Baseball signed a 
six-year, $2.5 billion contract with Fox[154] to televise Saturday afternoon 
regular-season baseball games, the All-Star Game and coverage of the Division 
Series, League Championship Series and World Series. 90% of the contract's 
value to Fox, which was paying the league $417 million per year, came from 
the postseason, which not only attracted large audiences, but also provided 
an irreplaceable opportunity for the network to showcase its fall schedule. 
Under the previous five-year deal with NBC (running from 1996 to 2000), 
Fox paid $115 million ($575 million overall), compared to the $80 million 
($400 million overall) that NBC paid. The difference between the Fox and 
the NBC contracts was that Fox's Saturday Game of the Week was implicitly 
valued at less than $90 million for five years. Before NBC officially decided 
to part ways with Major League Baseball (for the second time in about 12 
years) on September 26, 2000,[155] Fox's payment would have been $345 million, 
while NBC would have paid $240 million. NBC Sports president Ken Schanzer 
said regarding the loss of Major League Baseball rights for the second 
time since 1990:[156] We have notified Major League Baseball that we have 
passed on their offer and we wish them well going forward. NBC Sports chairman 
Dick Ebersol[157] added that it was not cost-effective for NBC to be paying 
out the kind of money that Major League Baseball wanted. The network was 
also reportedly concerned over disruptions to its regular fall prime time 
lineup that would result from having to broadcast the playoffs and World 
Series. In addition, NBC had several NASCAR races scheduled during the 
summer. The last Major League Baseball game that NBC has televised to date 
was Game 6 of the 2000 American League Championship Series, occurring on 
October 17, 2000.[158] In Houston, due to the coverage of the 2000 Presidential 
Debate, KPRC-TV elected to carry NBC News' coverage of the debate while 
independent station KNWS-TV carried the ALCS game via NBC. The loss of 
Major League Baseball was part of a slow decline for NBC's sports division.[159] 
This began with its loss of the rights to the NFL's American Football Conference 
to CBS at the end of the 1997 season. In 2002, NBC lost its NBA rights 
to ABC. This all culminated in the unproductive 2004–05 prime time season 
(despite heavy promotion of its lineup during the 2004 Summer Olympics), 
when NBC carried no major championship sports events during prime time. 
NBC did, however, acquire the television rights to the National Hockey 
League in 2004,[160] however that league ended up in a lockout that delayed 
the start of the contract by two years). In 2001, Bob Costas claimed that 
despite still loving the game, he now felt a certain alienation from the 
institution. By the time that NBC lost Major League Baseball for the second 
time in twelve years, the sport endured a strike, realignment, the introduction 
of the wild card round, and NBC's complete loss of the regular season Game 
of the Week. Costas would add that since NBC only did a few games each 
year and he lacked the forum that he would eventually have (on HBO's On 
the Record with Bob Costas, Inside the NFL and Costas Now as well as Costas 
on the Radio) to express his views, he to some extent, started editorializing 
in games. When asked about whether or not the fact that NBC no longer had 
the baseball rights was disappointing, Bob Costas said "I'm a little disappointed 
to lose baseball, but that's the way the business is. And it's not nearly 
as disappointing as it was when we lost it at the end of the '80s. Because 
then it was like baseball was the birthright for NBC. ... (Baseball is) 
not going to affect any decision that I have in the future. It's nowhere 
near as devastating as a decade ago. Different circumstances, different 
time. I miss it a little bit but not a lot. I am very philosophical about 
this stuff. I have had wonderful opportunities in my career and no one 
wants to hear me complain about anything." In 2009, Costas would become 
a contributor and occasional play-by-play announcer for MLB Network. A 
June 4, 2006 Broadcasting & Cable article stated that Fox may have considered 
a partnership with another network (which ultimately, turned out to be 
TBS) for the next contract. NBC was the only network named in connection 
to a possible partnership in the article. The setup being suggested was 
similar to the last time NBC had the rights to baseball, that being the 
network would get the rights to some League Championship Series games and 
alternate rights to the World Series and All-Star Game with Fox, which 
may or may not have kept the Game of the Week. After weeks of speculation 
and rumors, on July 11, 2006, at the All-Star Game, Major League Baseball 
announced a renewal of its existing current with Fox Sports through 2013, 
allowing the Fox network to retain exclusivity of the television rights 
to the World Series and the All-Star Game (the World Series would begin 
the Wednesday after the League Championship Series are completed). The 
deal also allowed Fox to retain the Saturday Game of the Week and gave 
it broadcast rights to one League Championship Series annually. This ruled 
out baseball returning to NBC, as the two annual showpiece events were 
not be available in any contract the network might obtain before then. 
OLN (now NBCSN) briefly considered acquiring the rights to the Sunday and 
Wednesday games, which expired after the 2005 season. However, on September 
14, 2005, existing rightsholder ESPN signed an eight-year contract with 
the league, highlighted by the continuation of ESPN's Sunday Night Baseball 
with additional, exclusive team appearances. Currently, NBCUniversal parent 
Comcast owns 5.44% of the MLB Network and featured a New York Mets–San 
Francisco Giants game with Bob Costas and Al Michaels (who while working 
for the Cincinnati Reds had previously helped call the 1972 World Series 
for NBC and as of 2006, serves as the play-by-play voice for NBC's Sunday 
Night Football telecasts) in July 2011. The New York Times, however, reported 
that it was unlikely that NBC would get baseball, as the network would 
have to preempt up to three weeks of NFL coverage on Sunday nights. However, 
the NFL used to not schedule a Sunday night game on the second night of 
the World Series, which meant that NBC gaining the rights was not completely 
out of the question (however, the following Sunday, in which a possible 
World Series Game 7 is scheduled, a Sunday night NFL game is also scheduled). 
In addition to this, other Sunday playoff games, such as the ALCS and NLCS 
could be pushed to the afternoon. This might not be appetizing to league 
officials, as major playoff games would go up head-to-head against highly 
rated afternoon NFL games (as opposed to today's system, in which only 
one game out of two for the day would go up against network NFL broadcasts).[161] 
During the summer of 2012, NBC Sports was reportedly involved in negotiations 
for a television contract with Major League Baseball.[162] NBCSN was expected 
to play a large part in NBC's bid.[163] However, it was likely that NBC 
would want either marquee event (All-Star Game and World Series) to air 
on the broadcast network rather than cable. This could have potentially 
conflicted with the network's broadcasts of Sunday Night Football, which 
has generally had a game or two scheduled on nights when a World Series 
game is held since 2010; however, prior to this, no game was scheduled 
on these nights so it would not have been unprecedented. Besides the potential 
conflicts with Sunday Night Football, another disadvantage[164] for NBCSN 
is that it was available in fewer than 80 million homes, trailing the national 
reach of both Fox Sports 1 and TBS. On August 28, 2012, Major League Baseball 
and ESPN agreed to an eight-year, $5.6 billion contract extension, the 
largest broadcasting deal in Major League Baseball history. It gave ESPN 
the rights to up to 90 regular-season games, alternating rights to one 
of the two Wild Card games (between American League and National League 
teams) each year, and the rights to all regular-season tiebreaker games. 
On September 19, 2012, Sports Business Daily[165][166] reported that the 
league would agree to separate eight-year television deals[167] with Fox 
Sports and Turner Sports[168] through the 2021 season. On October 2, 2012, 
the new deal between Major League Baseball and TBS was officially confirmed;[169][170][171] 
NBC looked to be left without a package,[172] because though it made an 
offer, Major League Baseball did not consider NBC a serious bidder after 
the ESPN deal was made public. Sources said that NBC did not make a strong 
offer, and that it was most interested in ESPN's package, which includes 
exclusivity on Sunday night and rights to the two mid-week games. When 
ESPN took that package, NBC's interest waned.[173] For many years, the 
NBC Radio Network also had a role in Major League Baseball coverage. The 
network shared World Series broadcast rights with CBS beginning in 1927, 
with All-Star Game broadcasts added in 1933. The Mutual Broadcasting System 
joined NBC and CBS in 1935; the three networks continued to share coverage 
of baseball's "jewels" in this manner through 1938, with Mutual gaining 
exclusive rights to the World Series in 1939 and the All-Star Game in 1942. 
In 1957, NBC replaced Mutual as the exclusive national radio broadcaster 
for the World Series and All-Star Game. The network would continue in this 
role through 1975, with CBS taking over the rights the following year. 
NBC Radio did not air regular season games during this period (save for 
the three-game National League pennant playoff series in 1959 and 1962); 
nor did the network cover the League Championship Series from 1969 to 1975, 
those series instead having local team radio broadcasts syndicated nationally 
