The first-year player draft, also known as the Rule 4 draft, is Major League 
Baseball's primary mechanism for assigning amateur baseball players, from 
high schools, colleges, and other amateur baseball clubs, to its teams.[1] 
The draft order is determined based on the previous season's standings, 
with the team possessing the worst record receiving the first pick. In 
addition, teams which lost free agents in the previous off-season may be 
awarded "compensatory" picks. The first amateur draft was held in 1965. 
Unlike most sports drafts, the first-year player draft is held mid-season, 
in June. Another distinguishing feature of this draft in comparison with 
those of other North American major professional sports leagues is its 
sheer size: under the current collective bargaining agreement the draft 
lasts 40 rounds, plus compensatory picks. In contrast, the NHL entry draft 
lasts seven rounds and roughly 215 picks, the NBA draft lasts for only 
two rounds (60 selections) and the NFL draft lasts for seven rounds (a 
maximum of 256 selections if no picks are forfeited). Major League Baseball 
has used a draft to assign minor league players to teams since 1921.[2][3] 
In 1936, the National Football League held the first amateur draft in professional 
sports.[4] A decade later, the National Basketball Association instituted 
a similar method of player distribution. However, the player draft was 
controversial. Congressman Emanuel Celler questioned the legality of drafts 
during a series of hearings on the business practice of professional sports 
leagues in the 1950s.[5] Successful clubs saw the draft as anti-competitive. 
Yankees executive Johnny Johnson equated it with communism.[6] At the same 
time, Pulitzer Prize-winning sports columnist Arthur Daley compared the 
system to a "slave market."[7] Prior to the implementation of the first-year 
player draft, amateurs were free to sign with any Major League team that 
offered them a contract. As a result, wealthier teams such as the New York 
Yankees and St. Louis Cardinals were able to stockpile young talent, while 
poorer clubs were left to sign less desirable prospects.[8] In 1947, Major 
League Baseball implemented the bonus rule, a restriction aimed at reducing 
player salaries, as well as keeping wealthier teams from monopolizing the 
player market.[9] In its most restrictive form, it forbade any team which 
gave an amateur a signing bonus of more than $4,000 from assigning that 
player to a minor league affiliate for two seasons. If the player was removed 
from the major league roster, he became a free agent. The controversial 
legislation was repealed twice, only to be re-instituted.[10] The bonus 
rule was largely ineffective. There were accusations that teams were signing 
players to smaller bonuses, only to supplement them with under-the-table 
payments.[7] In one famous incident, the Kansas City Athletics signed Clete 
Boyer, kept him on their roster for two years, then traded him to the Yankees 
just as he became eligible to be sent to the minor leagues. Other clubs 
accused the Yankees of using the Athletics as a de facto farm team, and 
the A's later admitted to signing Boyer on their behalf.[11] Finally, it 
was the bidding war for Rick Reichardt, who signed with the Los Angeles 
Angels for the then outrageous bonus of $200,000 that led to the implementation 
of the draft. Major League clubs voted on the draft during the 1964 Winter 
Meetings. Four teams—the New York Yankees, St. Louis Cardinals, Los Angeles 
Dodgers, and New York Mets—attempted to defeat the proposal, but they failed 
to convince a majority of teams, and in the end only the Cardinals voted 
against it.[12] Major League Baseball's first amateur draft was held in 
June 1965. Teams chose players in reverse order of the previous season's 
standings, with picks alternating between the National and American Leagues.[13] 
With the first pick, the Kansas City Athletics took Rick Monday, an outfielder 
from Arizona State University. Originally, three separate drafts were held 
each year. The June draft, which was by far the largest, involved new high 
school graduates, as well as college seniors who had just finished their 
seasons.[13] Another draft was held in January, which typically involved 
high school players who graduated in the winter, junior college players, 
and players who have dropped out of four-year colleges. Junior college 
players were required to wait until their current season was completed 
before they could sign.[14] Finally, there was a draft in August for players 
who participated in amateur summer leagues.[13] The August draft was eliminated 
after only two years, while the January draft lasted until 1986.[15] Early 
on, the majority of players drafted came directly from high school. Between 
1967 and 1971, only seven college players were chosen in the first round 
of the June draft.[16] However, the college players who were drafted outperformed 
their high school counterparts by what statistician Bill James called "a 
laughably huge margin."[17] By 1978, a majority of draftees had played 
college baseball, and by 2002, the number rose above sixty percent.[16] 
While the number of high school players drafted has dropped, those picked 
have been more successful than their predecessors. In a study of drafts 
from 1984 to 1999, Baseball Prospectus writer Rany Jazayerli concluded 
that, by the 1990s, the gap in production between the two groups had nearly 
disappeared.[18] In October 2011, Dr. Jazayerli presented another research 
study[19] which included an analysis of those players drafted since 1965, 
but instead of breaking them into college or high school draftees, he segregated 
them by their age on draft day. In the study published in Baseball Prospectus, 
which included a follow up article of the financial benefits,[20] Jazayerli 
concluded that the very young players return more value than expected by 
their draft slots. In Jazayerli’s study he looked at the statistics and 
broke draftees into 5 distinctive groups based on their age and being drafted 
in the early rounds. Dr. Jazayerli’s defined a “very young” player as those 
who are younger than 17 years and 296 days on draft day. Since the inception 
of the draft, the youngest player ever drafted in an early round is Alfredo 
Escalera. Escalera was drafted by the Kansas City Royals in the 8th round 
of the 2012 First Year Players Draft at 17 years and 114 days. Dr. Jazayerli’s 
study does not clearly demonstrate the influence of the player's age when 
drafted in a late round. Initially, the draft succeeded in reducing the 
value of signing bonuses. In 1964, a year before the first draft, University 
of Wisconsin outfielder Rick Reichardt was given a record bonus of $205,000 
($1,566,754 today) by the Los Angeles Angels. Without competition from 
other clubs, the Athletics were able to sign Rick Monday for a bonus of 
only $104,000. It would take until 1979 for a drafted player to receive 
a bonus higher than Reichardt's.[21] Player salaries continued to escalate 
through the 1980s. In 1986, Bo Jackson became the first draftee to sign 
a total contract (signing bonus and salary) worth over $1 million ($2,162,417 
today).[22] Jackson, a Heisman Trophy-winning football player for Auburn 
University, was also the first overall choice in the National Football 
League draft, and was offered a $7 million ($15,136,916 today) contract 
to play football for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers.[23] High school players 
possessed additional leverage, as they had the option of attending college 
and re-entering the draft the next year. Agent Scott Boras routinely exploited 
this advantage to increase the contracts of his clients. In 1990, Boras 
client Todd Van Poppel signed a $1.2 million ($2,177,178 today) contract 
with Oakland Athletics, after committing to play for the University of 
Texas. The following year, Boras negotiated a $1.55 million ($2,697,447 
today) contract for Yankees first round pick Brien Taylor, who had said 
he would attend junior college if he did not receive a contract equal to 
Van Poppel's.[24] By June 2009, a figure as high as $15 million was floated 
for collegian pitcher Stephen Strasburg.[25] Increasingly, teams drafted 
based on whether or not a player was likely to sign for a particular amount 
of money, rather than on his talent. This became known as a "signability 
pick." Before the 1992 draft, team owners unilaterally decided to extend 
the period of time a team retained negotiating rights to a player from 
one year to five. In effect, the rule prohibited a high school draftee 
from attending college and re-entering the draft after his junior or senior 
seasons. The Major League Baseball Players Association filed a legal challenge, 
but Major League Baseball argued that, since the Players Association did 
not represent amateur players, it was not necessary for the union to agree 
to the change.[26] An arbitrator ultimately decided that any change to 
draft articles must be negotiated with the Players Association.[27] The 
first-year player draft has historically had far less media exposure than 
its counterparts in the other leagues for three primary reasons: The 2007 
draft was televised live for the first time in the draft's history on June 
7, 2007, from 2:00pm until 6:00pm EDT (1800–2200 hrs UTC).[28] The draft 
coverage took place at Disney's Wide World of Sports Complex at Walt Disney 
World near Orlando, Florida. Since the 2009 draft, the first round of the 
draft is broadcast on MLB Network live and in prime time from its studios 
in Secaucus, New Jersey. To be drafted, a player must fit the following 
criteria: The general draft order is the reverse order of the previous 
year's standings. If two teams finish with identical records, the previous 
year's standings of the two teams is the tiebreaker, with the team having 
a worse record receiving the higher pick. Prior to 2007, a team retained 
the rights to sign a selected player until one week prior to the next draft, 
or until the player enters, or returns to, a four-year college on a full-time 
basis. This was known as the "draft-and-follow" procedure.[29] Starting 
in 2012, the deadline for signing a drafted player is July 15. A selected 
player who enters a junior college cannot be signed until the conclusion 
of the school's baseball season. A player who is drafted and does not sign 
with the club that selected him may be drafted again at a future year's 
draft, so long as the player is eligible for that year's draft. A club 
may not select a player again in a subsequent year, unless the player has 
consented to the re-selection. A player who is eligible to be selected 
and is passed over by every club becomes a free agent and may sign with 
any club, up until one week before the next draft, or until the player 
enters, or returns to, a four-year college full-time or enters, or returns 
to, a junior college. In the one-week period before any draft, which is 
called the "closed period", the general rule is that no club may sign a 
new player. Currently, teams can earn compensatory picks in the draft based 
on departing free agents who reject a Qualifying Offer from their respective 
team. A qualifying offer being defined as a one-year contract worth the 
average value of the top 120 player contracts for that year (In 2015, the 
value of the qualifying offer was $15.8 million). The 2013 draft saw major 
changes to the compensation rules. This was implemented as part of the 
most recent collective bargaining agreement (CBA) between MLB and its players' 
union, which took effect with the 2012 season. Before the 2013 draft, free 
agents were ranked by the Elias Sports Bureau based on their previous two 
years of playing, and against players of similar positions. Players were 
categorized as either Type A or Type B, or fell into the category of all 
other players. Below is a description of each free agent class and the 
compensation the free agent's former team received when the player signed 
with a different team. • A Type A free agent was ranked in the top 20 percent 
of players at his position. A team that signed a Type A player gave its 
top draft pick to the club that the player left; that club also received 
a supplemental pick in the "sandwich" round between the first and second 
rounds.[30] • A Type B free agent was ranked below the top 20 percent but 
in the top 40 percent of players at his position. A team that lost a Type 
B player received a supplemental pick, but the signing team did not lose 
a pick.[30] • All other players carried no compensation at all. There had 
previously been a third class of "Type C" players, but that was eliminated 
in the 2007 CBA.[30] To earn a compensatory pick, a free agent must have 
been either signed before the arbitration deadline in early December, or 
offered arbitration by their former team but still signed with another 
team. Compensatory picks that one team gave another via this method were 
the highest available pick that team had, with the exception of picks in 
the top half of the first round.[31] These picks were protected from being 
used as compensation. If a team that picked in the top half of the first 
draft signed a Type A free agent, they would give up their second-round 
pick. If a team owed two other teams draft picks via Type A free agents, 
the team whose departing player had a higher score got the higher-ranked 
pick. A team could not lose picks it earned via compensation. The post-2012 
rules for this aspect of the draft are similar, except that the "Type A" 
and "Type B" designations no longer exist (see below). The order of the 
supplemental round between the first and second rounds, a feature that 
will remain in place in 2013 and beyond, is determined by inverse order 
of the previous year's standings. Under pre-2013 rules, Type A picks were 
made first, and then the order reset for all the Type B compensation picks. 
In a feature that did not change with the most recent CBA in 2012, teams 
can also earn compensation for unsigned picks from the previous year's 
draft. If a team doesn't sign a first or second round pick, they will get 
to pick at the same slot plus one the following year. For example, if the 
team with the #5 pick does not sign that player, they would have the #6 
pick the following year. The regular draft order would continue around 
those picks. For compensation for not signing a third round pick, teams 
would get a pick in a supplemental round between the third and fourth rounds. 
If a team fails to sign a player with one of these compensated picks, there 
is no compensation the following year. For the 2012 draft, the previous 
"Type A" and "Type B" designations remained in place, but the CBA included 
special provisions that modified the statuses of 11 players who were Type 
A free agents under the 2007 CBA. Six of these were "Modified Type A"—meaning 
that the signing team did not forfeit a draft pick, but the player's former 
team received a compensatory pick in the same position it would have earned 
under regular Type A rules. The remaining five were "Modified Type B", 
with compensation identical to that for other Type B free agents.[32] Starting 
with the 2013 draft, free agents are no longer classified by "type". Instead, 
a team is only able to receive compensation if it makes its former player 
an offer at least equal to the average of the 125 richest contracts.[33] 
However, if a player is traded during the final season of his contract, 
his new team will be ineligible to receive any compensation.[34] The new 
CBA introduced other significant changes to the draft. From the 2012 draft 
on, each team is allocated a "bonus pool" from which it can offer initial 
contracts to its drafted players. Each team's pool is based on its draft 
position and number of picks, plus the amount spent in the previous year's 
draft. For the 2012 draft, these pools ranged from $4.5 million to $11.5 
million. If a team goes over its threshold by 5 percent or less, it must 
pay a "luxury tax" of 75% on the amount over the threshold. Teams that 
go 5 to 10 percent over must pay a 100% tax on the excess, and will lose 
their next first-round pick. A team that goes 15 percent over can lose 
its next two first-round picks, in addition to the "luxury tax".[33] These 
excess picks will go to smaller-revenue teams via a yet-to-be-reported 
formula. Uniquely, these compensatory picks can be traded—marking the first 
time MLB has allowed trading of draft picks. However, all previous rules 
against trading of regular picks, or picks awarded as free agent compensation, 
remain in force.[34] Teams can no longer offer major league contracts to 
their draft choices—only minor league contracts are available. The only 
exception is for drafted players who have scholarships in other sports.[34] 
Also, the date for signing new picks has moved from mid-August to mid-July.[34] 
