Fox Major League Baseball (shortened to Fox MLB and also known as Major 
League Baseball on Fox, MLB on Fox, or MLB on FS1) is the branding used 
for broadcasts of Major League Baseball (MLB) games produced by Fox Sports, 
the sports division of the Fox Broadcasting Company (Fox). The first MLB 
games broadcast by Fox Sports began airing on the Fox network on June 1, 
1996. Under its current contract with the league, Fox Sports will continue 
to carry Major League Baseball telecasts through at least 2021, with national 
broadcasts on Fox and cable sports network Fox Sports 1.[1] On November 
7, 1995, Major League Baseball reached a television deal with Fox and NBC, 
allowing the former to obtain MLB game rights (assuming ABC's end of the 
contract). Fox paid US$575 million for the five-year contract, a fraction 
less of the amount of money that CBS had paid for the Major League Baseball 
television rights for the 1990–1993 seasons.[2][3] Unlike the previous 
television deal, "The Baseball Network" (a partnership created through 
the league's joint contract with ABC and NBC that began in the 1994 season), 
Fox reverted to the format of televising regular season games (approximately 
16 weekly telecasts that normally began on Memorial Day weekend[4]) on 
Saturday afternoons. Fox did, however, continue a format that The Baseball 
Network started by offering a selection of games based purely on a viewer's 
region. Fox's approach has usually been to offer three regionalized telecasts. 
The initial deal also gave Fox the rights to broadcast the 1996, 1998 and 
2000 World Series, the 1997 and 1999 All-Star Games, as well as coverage 
of the League Championship Series (shared with NBC) and five Division Series 
games each year.[3] When Fox first began carrying baseball, it used the 
motto "Same game, new attitude." to promote the telecasts, which had previously 
been used to promote the network's National Football League coverage when 
it began in 1994. Fox's primary goal when it first began airing Major League 
Baseball games was to promote their weak prime time schedule (which at 
the time included only a handful of hits, such as established series Beverly 
Hills 90210, The Simpsons and Married... with Children). Fox Sports president 
Ed Goren said, "We'll use the World Series and League Championship Series 
to spur our shows". Like its predecessor NBC, Fox determined its Saturday 
schedule by which MLB franchise was playing a team from one of the three 
largest television markets – New York City, Los Angeles or Chicago. If 
there was a game which featured teams from two of these three markets (involving 
any combination of the Yankees, Mets, Dodgers, Angels, Cubs or White Sox), 
that game would be aired on the network. In September 2000, Major League 
Baseball reached a six-year, US$2.5 billion contract with Fox that allowed 
it to retain rights to Saturday baseball games,[5] and included rights 
to the All-Star Game, select Division Series games and exclusive coverage 
of the League Championship Series and World Series. 90% of the contract's 
value to Fox, which paid Major League Baseball $417 million per year under 
the deal, came from the postseason, which not only attracted large audiences, 
but also provided an opportunity for the network to showcase its fall schedule. 
The contract protected Major League Baseball in the event of a labor dispute 
(something that did not occur with "The Baseball Network" in 1994). If 
some of the games were cancelled as a result of a strike or lockout, Major 
League Baseball would still be paid by the network, but had to compensate 
Fox with additional telecasts. On the other hand, a repeat of the 1994 
league strike would have cost Fox well over $1 billion; the television 
contract created an incentive not to cause a strike, as it would hurt broadcast 
networks since they paid for the deal, unlike the 1994–95 television package. 
Under the previous five-year contract, Fox paid $575 million (totaling 
$115 million per year) for the Major League Baseball rights, while NBC 
only paid $400 million ($80 million annually). The difference between the 
Fox and the NBC contracts was that the deal implicitly valued Fox's Saturday 
"Game of the Week" telecasts at less than $90 million for five years. Before 
NBC officially decided to part ways with Major League Baseball (for the 
second time in about 12 years) on September 26, 2000, Fox would have had 
to pay $345 million for the contract, while NBC would have paid $240 million. 
With the exception of the three-year absence from 1990 to 1993, NBC had 
carried Major League Baseball broadcasts since 1947. NBC Sports president 
Ken Schanzer stated regarding its decision not to renew its contract, "We 
have notified Major League Baseball that we have passed on their offer 
and we wish them well going forward." Under the new deal, Fox would now 
pay an average of $417 million a year, an approximately 45% increase from 
the previous deal (which was worth $290 million per year) that Fox, NBC 
and ESPN contributed together. CBS and ABC reportedly were not interested 
in buying the rights at the prices being offered by Major League Baseball. 
When asked about the new deal with Fox, Commissioner Bud Selig said, "We 
at Major League Baseball could not be happier with the result. They have 
been a good partner and an innovative producer of our games." Neal Pilson, 
who served as the president of CBS Sports when the network had the exclusive 
television rights for Major League Baseball said of Fox's $2.5 billion 
deal: Some observers believed that gaining the relative ratings boost from 
the League Championship Series and World Series meant more to Fox than 
the other broadcast networks. This was because Fox had suffered the biggest 
prime time ratings decline[6] among the four major networks during the 
1999–2000 television season, with an average prime time audience of 8.97 
million viewers, down 17% from the year before according to Nielsen Media 
Research. On July 11, 2006, Major League Baseball announced that the Fox 
network had signed a new seven-year contract, which guaranteed that Fox 
would remain the broadcaster of the World Series through the 2013 season. 
Fox had widely been expected to renew the deal, but it was unclear what 
the network would be willing to air beyond the All-Star Game and World 
Series. The package was officially announced on October 17, 2006. Under 
the terms of the arrangement, Fox retained its rights to the network's 
regular-season package, which would now begin in April, and would remain 
the exclusive home of the All-Star Game and World Series. Fox's postseason 
coverage beyond the World Series is limited to one League Championship 
Series per year (the American League Championship Series in odd numbered 
years and National League Championship Series in even numbered years), 
which alternates every year with TBS (which took over exclusive rights 
to the Division Series from ESPN) airing the other LCS. One of the terms 
of the deal was that, beginning with the 2007 season, the Saturday "Game 
of the Week" coverage was extended over the entire season rather than starting 
after Memorial Day, with most games being aired in the 3:30 to 7:00 p.m. 
(Eastern Time) time slot, which was reduced to 4:00 to 7:00 after Fox cancelled 
its in-studio pre-game program for the 2009 season. Exceptions were added 
in 2010 with a 3:00 to 7:00 afternoon window being used on Saturdays when 
Fox was scheduled to broadcast a NASCAR Sprint Cup Series race in prime 
time (which would start at 7:30) and a 7:00 to 10:00 window, when Fox is 
scheduled to broadcast the UEFA Champions League soccer final (which would 
start at 3:00). For 2012, Fox revised its schedule; while the 3:30 p.m. 
Eastern Time start time remained intact, weekly games on certain Saturdays 
when the network was to air NASCAR races held at Texas Motor Speedway, 
Richmond International Raceway and Darlington Raceway start at 12:30 p.m. 
Eastern Time. Starting with the date of the UEFA Champions League Final 
until the Saturday before the All-Star Break, all "Game of the Week" telecasts 
would start at 7:00 p.m. Eastern Time. The Baseball Night in America moniker 
was used for all MLB on Fox games in that span. On September 19, 2012, 
Sports Business Daily[1][7] reported that Major League Baseball would agree 
to separate eight-year television deals with Fox Sports and Turner Sports[8] 
through the 2021 season. Fox would reportedly pay around $4 billion over 
eight years (close to $500 million per year), while Turner would pay around 
$2.8 billion over eight years (more than $300 million per year). Under 
the new deals, Fox and TBS' coverage would essentially be the same as in 
the 2007–2013 contract with the exception of Fox and TBS splitting coverage 
of the Division Series, which TBS has broadcast exclusively dating back 
to 2007. More importantly, Fox would carry some of the games (such as the 
Saturday afternoon Game of the Week) on its new general sports channel, 
Fox Sports 1,[1][9][10] which launched on August 17, 2013.[11][12] Sources 
also said it was possible that Fox would sell some League Division Series 
games to MLB Network. On October 2, 2012, the new deal between Major League 
Baseball and Fox was officially confirmed;[13][14] it included the television 
rights to 12 Saturday afternoon games on Fox (reduced from 26),[15] 40 
games on Fox Sports 1 (with Fox Sports 2 airing certain ones as an overflow 
feed in case of overlapping telecasts), rights to the All-Star Game, two 
League Division Series (two games were sold to MLB Network, the rest would 
air on Fox Sports 1), one League Championship Series (in which Fox Sports 
and Turner Sports would each respectively alternate coverage of American 
League and National League postseason games each year on an odd-even basis, 
with Games 1 and, if necessary, 6 in 2014 airing on Fox ), and the World 
Series (which would remain on Fox). In addition, all Fox Saturday Baseball 
games would be made available on MLB Extra Innings and MLB.TV (subject 
to local blackout restrictions[16]), Fox Sports was awarded TV Everywhere 
rights for streaming of game telecasts on computers, mobile and tablet 
devices, rights to a nightly baseball highlights show, Spanish language 
rights to all games carried on Fox and Fox Cable (Fox Deportes) and rights 
to a weekly show produced by MLB Productions. Fox has used numerous scheduling 
formulas for its Saturday regular season coverage. These have often changed 
based on the rights granted by new television contracts, and the pregame 
programs that the network has chosen to air. From 1996 to 2006, Fox began 
its weekly game telecasts on the Saturday of Memorial Day weekend. The 
selection of games varied on a regional basis, and the start times were 
staggered based on region. A half-hour pregame show aired at 12:30 p.m. 
Eastern Time, followed by game broadcasts held at 1:00 p.m. in the Eastern 
and Central Time Zones. West Coast games did not air until 4:00 p.m. Eastern 
Time (1:00 p.m. in the Pacific Time Zone). All of these games were exclusive 
to the broadcast network, and as a result, Fox's exclusivity window lasted 
through the entire afternoon. In 2007, Fox began airing games every Saturday 
during the season. A new scheduling format was devised, in which all of 
the regional games started simultaneously. Fox moved the pregame, which 
became part of the exclusive game window, to 3:30 p.m. Eastern Time. All 
of the Fox games would then start at 3:55 p.m. Eastern Time, regardless 
of region. This format gave more leeway for teams not being shown on Fox 
to schedule daytime games. Fox's exclusivity began at the start of the 
pregame at 3:30 and ran until 7:00 p.m. Eastern. Fox discontinued its pregame 
show in 2009,[17] with the telecasts now beginning at 4:00 p.m. Eastern 
and the game time being pushed to 4:10. Fox gave up the first half-hour 
of its exclusivity,[18] with its window now beginning at 4:00 p.m. Eastern 
Time. This scheduling formula was used through 2011 for the regular season. 
Beginning in 2010, several of the Saturday games aired in prime time during 
the spring. These telecasts used an exclusivity window from 7:00 to 10:30 p.m. 
Eastern Time, as the network revived a pregame show for these games, airing 
at 7:00 p.m. with the game at 7:15. In 2012, the pregame show returned 
full-time, prompting another change in scheduling. The normal scheduling 
in 2012 and 2013 was for the pregame airing at either 12:30 or 3:30 p.m. 
Eastern Time. The pregame would not be a part of Fox's exclusive window, 
which began with the game telecast starting a half-hour later. The scheduling 
did not change for the spring prime time games, however, as the scheduling 
for these games remained the same as in 2010 and 2011. For the 2014 season, 
sister cable channel Fox Sports 1 began providing Major League Baseball 
game coverage, carrying a Fox Saturday Baseball doubleheader on most weeks. 
FS1's coverage begins with the pregame show a half-hour before the game, 
which usually starts at 1:00 or 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time. A second game usually 
follows at either 7:00 or 8:00 Eastern Time. If there is a gap between 
the first and second game, a studio show is not aired in between. All of 
the telecasts are aired nationally instead of on a regional basis, however 
the telecast is not exclusive. Although, the telecast for one of the two 
games is exclusive within the markets of the teams playing, which is always 
a game between two teams that play on the Fox Sports regional networks. 
Prime time games continued to air on the Fox network, and once again used 
the 2010 scheduling formula for these telecasts, including full national 
exclusivity. For the 2000 and 2001 seasons, the Fox network's then-sister 
cable channel, Fox Family (later ABC Family, now Freeform) carried a weekly 
Major League Baseball game on Thursday nights (a game that had previously 
aired nationwide on Fox Sports Net from 1997 to 1999), as well as select 
postseason games from the Division Series. Among the noteworthy games that 
aired on Fox Family was the October 4, 2001 game between the San Francisco 
Giants and the Houston Astros, during which Barry Bonds hit his 70th home 
run of the season, which tied the all-time single season record that Mark 
McGwire had set only three years earlier (Bonds broke the record the next 
night). As part of the company's 2001 purchase of Fox Family, in addition 
to rights to the Thursday night game, The Walt Disney Company acquired 
the MLB rights that were also held by FX. Those two game packages were 
moved to ESPN beginning with the 2002 baseball season, however the playoff 
games remained on ABC Family for one additional year due to contractual 
issues. A deal was reached to move those playoff games to ESPN, which produced 
the games for ABC Family, starting with the 2003 season. Although the games 
aired on networks owned by Disney, Fox kept the exclusive negotiation rights 
to renew the contract after the 2006 season. Fox chose not to renew its 
rights to the Division Series, which (as previously mentioned) went to 
TBS as part of its new baseball contract. Meanwhile, the Fox Broadcasting 
Company's other sister cable channel FX, aired numerous Saturday night 
Major League Baseball contests in 2001, including Cal Ripken, Jr.'s final 
game at Camden Yards. FX also aired one game in the Major League Baseball 
postseason each year from 2001 to 2005, on the first Wednesday night of 
League Championship Series week when the league scheduled two games at 
the same time. On that night, Fox distributed one game to local affiliates 
with the availability of coverage being based on region, and the other 
game aired on the corresponding cable affiliate of FX, the main DirecTV 
or Dish Network channel, or an alternate channel on the satellite providers. 
With a new Major League Baseball television contract signed – again excluding 
FX – the last such broadcast was scheduled for October 11, 2006, however 
that night's NLCS game between the St. Louis Cardinals and New York Mets 
was rained out, making the Detroit Tigers–Oakland Athletics ALCS game a 
national broadcast; FX aired the movie Any Given Sunday instead. Both series 
were played on October 13, but Fox carried both games, with the ALCS airing 
in the daytime and the NLCS at night. As a result of the August 2013 launches 
of Fox Sports 1 and Fox Sports 2, FX is no longer used as an outlet for 
Fox Sports, outside of very rare sports broadcast conflicts with other 
networks. With the new 2014 television contract, Fox Sports 1's telecasts 
will not be exclusive until the postseason, though they may co-exist with 
local carriers. All games aired on the Fox network, including the Baseball 
Night in America pre-game show, the All-Star Game, pennant chase telecasts 
in September, and postseason telecasts, will remain exclusive to the broadcast 
network. Since the network acquired the rights to postseason baseball coverage, 
Fox has received criticism from non-baseball fans for not airing first-run 
original programming during October (baseball fans point out that there 
are plenty of other broadcast and cable networks available that do air 
original scripted programming). For the majority of the time that Fox has 
aired baseball, the network started the fall season for The Simpsons and 
other shows in November and the fall runs of a few other series beginning 
in August or September, before being put on hiatus until after the World 
Series (an exception was The X Factor, which some episodes rescheduled 
to other nights such as Sundays or delayed in its regularly scheduled timeslot 
during the singing competition's 2011 to 2013 run due to postseason games 
that were rained out on their originally scheduled nights or overran into 
prime time). In 2005, Fox started its fall programming season in September, 
put its series in hiatus in October for the Major League Baseball playoffs, 
and resumed non-baseball programming in November. Both approaches have 
drawn criticism, indicating that there may not be a perfect way for the 
network to accommodate both sports and regular entertainment programming.[19] 
For the first year of its exclusive six-year contract (2001), Fox did a 
split telecast (which had not been attempted since the ill-fated "Baseball 
Network" arrangement existed) for the League Championship Series. This 
meant that two games were played simultaneously on the same night, with 
one game airing on the Fox network and the other on the regional Fox Sports 
Net cable channel (depending on market, as some markets did not have a 
regional sports network with a relationship to FSN). The rationale behind 
the split-telecast was that because of the September 11 attacks, the entire 
post-season schedule was delayed by a week. Because of this, two Sunday 
LCS games came in conflict with an Fox NFL doubleheader. Fans and sports 
journalists were unimpressed with the situation and MLB commissioner Bud 
Selig vowed that it was a one-time deal necessitated by circumstance. However, 
in later years, Fox used split telecasts on a few occasions to keep the 
playoffs "on schedule" and maximize its prime time advertising revenue, 
and aired the second game on FX (as previously mentioned), which has virtually 
nationwide distribution on cable and satellite. This ensured that Fox did 
not have to air an LCS game on a weekday afternoon, when many viewers are 
unable to watch. The 2007–2013 contract eliminated this issue, as TBS (as 
previously mentioned) had rights to one of the League Championship Series 
each year. However, Fox continued to air afternoon LCS games on weekdays 
through the entire length of the contract. With Fox Sports 1 taking over 
some of the Major League Baseball coverage in 2014, postseason coverage 
on Fox Sports' end of the package began to be split between the Fox network 
and Fox Sports 1. Four games from both National League Division Series 
matchups aired on Fox Sports 1, with the remaining game airing on MLB Network; 
however, all of the telecasts were produced by Fox and used Fox Sports 
announcers (although Bob Costas served as a play-by-play announcer for 
one of the games). Fox Sports then carried exclusive coverage of the National 
League Championship Series – in which the Fox network aired a traditional 
telecast of Game 1, while Fox Sports 1 aired an experimental telecast supplemented 
by advanced metrics and statistics and standard telecasts for Games 2 through 
5. Fox would air Game 6 if necessary, while a possible Game 7 (which did 
not occur) would end up airing on Fox Sports 1; the Fox network would air 
the World Series in its entirety. Since its baseball coverage began in 
1996, Fox has aired four regular season games on days other than Saturday. 
As part of its coverage of Mark McGwire's bid to break Roger Maris's single-season 
home run record in 1998, Fox aired a Sunday afternoon game between the 
Cincinnati Reds and St. Louis Cardinals on September 6 and a Tuesday night 
game between the Chicago Cubs and the Cardinals on September 8 of that 
year (McGwire hit his record-breaking 62nd home run of the season in the 
latter game, which earned a 14.5 rating share for Fox, and remains the 
network's highest-rated regular season Major League Baseball telecast to 
this day). On April 16, 2004, the network aired a Friday night game between 
the New York Yankees and Boston Red Sox to cover those teams' first head-to-head 
meeting since the memorable 2003 ALCS. On August 12, 2016, Fox aired a 
Friday night game between the Tampa Bay Rays and New York Yankees, as it 
was the final game for longtime Yankees player Alex Rodriguez. For a Saturday 
afternoon telecast of a Los Angeles Dodgers/Chicago Cubs game at Wrigley 
Field on August 26, 2000, Fox aired a special "Turn Back the Clock" broadcast 
to commemorate the 61st anniversary of the first televised baseball game. 
The broadcast started with a recreation of the television technology of 
1939, with play-by-play announcer Joe Buck working alone with a single 
microphone, a single black-and-white camera, and no graphics; each subsequent 
half-inning would then see the broadcast "jump ahead in time" to a later 
era, showing the evolving technologies and presentation of network baseball 
coverage through the years. Beginning in 2014, Fox Sports 1 added several 
non-exclusive Tuesday night telecasts outside of its regular Saturday schedule. 
These games generally feature marquee teams which may attract a large audience, 
along the lines of the 2004 Red Sox-Yankees telecast or the Mark McGwire 
telecasts. In 2015, one Thursday game was scheduled, though this was during 
a rare week in which Fox Saturday Baseball was not scheduled to air. Saturday 
baseball games broadcast on Fox have regularly been preceded by a youth-targeted 
baseball-oriented program: Fox aired In the Zone from the inaugural season 
of MLB rights in 1996 until 1999, and This Week in Baseball from 2000 to 
2011 (the latter program had previously aired in syndication from 1977 
to 1998). From 2012 to 2013, Fox aired MLB Player Poll, a show in which 
players and fans talk about current MLB-related topics and participate 
in opinion polls about the sport/players of baseball; it was hosted by 
Greg Amsinger. Player Poll was replaced in 2014 by MLB 162 (the title being 
a reference to the total number of games played during the Major League 
Baseball season), which was hosted by Julie Alexandria and aired exclusively 
on Fox Sports 1. In 2015, Fox Sports 1 began airing MLB's Best, a half-hour 
weekly show completely containing highlights of the best plays of the previous 
week in a countdown format, with no host or interviews. As part of Fox 
Sports' new Major League Baseball broadcast deal, in April 2014, Fox Sports 
1 premiered MLB Whiparound, an hour-long nightly baseball highlight program 
(similar in vein to ESPN's Baseball Tonight and MLB Network's MLB Tonight) 
featuring quick-turnaround highlights, and news and analysis from around 
the league (live look-ins of games being played in progress generally can 
not be shown on Whiparound, as MLB Tonight is reserved that right exclusively). 
It is hosted by Chris Myers, who is joined by one or two analysts rotating 
between Frank Thomas, Eric Karros, Dontrelle Willis and C. J. Nitkowski. 
Although Whiparound airs most weeknights at 10:00 p.m., the Wednesday editions 
are usually delayed to 12:00 a.m. Eastern Time on weeks when Fox Sports 
1 airs a sporting event in prime time during the MLB season (on weeks without 
predetermined programming conflicts, the program airs in its regular 10:00 p.m. 
slot).[20] The Bullpen is a hour-long weekly baseball talk program (similar 
in vein to Torneos' El Equipo de Primera) to debut in 2017. It will be 
hosted by Ken Rosenthal. As of 2016, Joe Buck is Fox's lead play-by-play 
commentator (a role he has held since Fox inaugurated its Major League 
Baseball coverage in 1996), with John Smoltz serving as color analyst; 
they are joined by field reporter Ken Rosenthal. From 1996 to 2013, Buck 
was teamed with Tim McCarver, although McCarver was considered the main 
reason behind the firing of Jack Buck from CBS five years earlier (due 
to poor on-air chemistry between the two) in favor of Sean McDonough. Unlike 
the team of Jack Buck and McCarver on CBS, Joe Buck and McCarver fused. 
According to McCarver, "The play-by-play man [should] explain what and 
where and analyst answer why and how. [Joe Buck] does both." During the 
pre-2001 period, Bob Brenly (who otherwise, typically worked with Thom 
Brennaman) acted as the third man in the booth with Buck and McCarver during 
the All-Star Game, League Championship Series and World Series. Buck and 
McCarver were at the microphone when Brenly led the Arizona Diamondbacks 
as manager to the 2001 World Series title. Since Joe Buck was hired to 
work on the NFL on Fox, following the retirement of lead play-by-play voice 
Pat Summerall in 2002, Dick Stockton, Kenny Albert, Matt Vasgersian, Thom 
Brennaman, Josh Lewin, and others have filled in for Joe Buck whenever 
he is unable to work a game. During the mid-2000s, Fox utilized active 
or former players and managers as "guest analysts" on the network's League 
Championship Series telecasts. These included Bret Boone (2003 ALCS), Al 
Leiter (2003 NLCS and 2004 ALCS), Brenly (2004 and 2005 NLCS), Lou Piniella 
(2005 and 2006 ALCS), and Luis Gonzalez (2006 NLCS). Many fans accuse Fox 
of choosing announcers biased towards large market teams, citing some of 
these choices, including Boone, whose brother, Aaron Boone, was playing 
for the Yankees in the 2003 ALCS games covered by Bret Boone. The network's 
#2 broadcast team has always been led by Thom Brenneman. He has been joined 
by several analysts: first by Steve Lyons, who was fired by Fox during 
the 2006 ALCS for racially insensitive comments toward guest analyst Lou 
Piniella. Lyons was replaced by Joe Girardi, who left after one season 
to manage the Yankees. Former ESPN analyst Eric Karros replaced Girardi 
in 2008. In 2014, the #2 role began to be split between Brenneman/Karros 
and the team of Matt Vasgersian, moving from the studio, and John Smoltz, 
moving from Turner Sports. The #2 broadcast team covered various postseason 
games from 1996 to 2006. For the 2001 season only, Fox had rights to the 
entire postseason and used its top four teams to cover the Division Series. 
Like the #1 team, the #2 team was joined by guest analysts during the League 
Championship Series from 2003 to 2006. Fox was not contracted to cover 
simultaneous postseason series from 2007 to 2013, so only the #1 team worked 
during the postseason. With concurrent series returning to Fox starting 
in 2014, Vasgersian and Smoltz were called upon to work the postseason, 
with Brenneman working on the #1 team for games Joe Buck is unable to cover. 
Since 2012, MLB Network has aired a pair of League Division Series games. 
The first two years, with MLB Network sharing their series with Turner 
Sports, the former produced its own LDS coverage with Bob Costas and Jim 
Kaat. Beginning in 2014, MLB Network took both of its games from Fox's 
series. Due to the collaboration between Fox and MLB Network, Fox produces 
the cable network's games, with Vasgersian and Smoltz calling the game 
which MLB Network took from their series. Meanwhile, Costas would still 
call MLB Network's game in the other series but he was joined by the rest 
of Fox's #1 broadcast team for a Fox-produced telecast. The original studio 
host when Fox's MLB coverage began in 1996 was Chip Caray. Dave Winfield 
and Steve Lyons were the show's original analysts. Unlike the network's 
primary broadcast teams, the studio personnel have not had the same longevity. 
Winfeld left Fox after only one season, and both Caray and Lyons would 
move to the broadcast booth before leaving the network. From 1999 to 2000, 
Keith Olbermann took over the hosting seat from Caray. According to Olbermann, 
he was fired from Fox in 2001 after reporting on his MSNBC program Countdown 
on rumors that Rupert Murdoch, owner of Fox parent company News Corporation 
(which became 21st Century Fox through the July 2013 split of its publishing 
unit and certain miscellaneous properties into a separate company), was 
planning on selling the Los Angeles Dodgers.[23] When asked about Olbermann, 
Murdoch said: "I fired him...He's crazy."[24][25] News Corporation eventually 
would sell the Dodgers to Frank McCourt in 2004. That year, Olbermann remarked, 
"Fox Sports was an infant trying to stand [in comparison to ESPN], but 
on the broadcast side there was no comparison—ESPN was the bush leagues."[26] 
After Olbermann's departure following the 2000 season, Fox Sports Net's 
Jeanne Zelasko was promoted to host the pregame show. Kevin Kennedy was 
hired to be the lead analyst. The two would continue to host the pregame 
from 2001 through the 2008 season. In 2007 and 2008, the two were often 
joined by one of either Eric Karros, Joe Girardi, Mark Grace or Eric Byrnes. 
As previously mentioned, due to poor ratings and budget concerns (Fox never 
made money on national advertising sales that are seen on Fox NFL Sunday 
as they were instead, sold by the local affiliates[17]), Fox in 2009, decided 
to scrap the studio/pregame show altogether[27] (in return, Zelasko and 
Kennedy were also dropped by Fox – Kennedy has since re-appeared on Fox 
Sports as a fill-in commentator). The show was retained for the postseason; 
for the LCS in 2009 and 2010, Chris Rose hosted from Fox's studio in Los 
Angeles with analysts Karros and Grace. For the 2011 NLCS and the 2009, 
2010 and 2011 World Series, the show used an on-field studio for the pregame 
show. Former Chicago White Sox manager Ozzie Guillén was a guest analyst 
for the series in 2009 and 2010, with White Sox catcher AJ Pierzynski joining 
the crew for the 2011 series. For Baseball Night in America from 2009 to 
2011, the pregame show was also broadcast from the Los Angeles studio with 
Rose hosting. However, with Karros and Grace calling games, Kevin Millar 
joined Rose as analyst. This would spark an eventual drive time talk show 
hosted by the two on MLB Network. Also as previously mentioned, beginning 
in 2012, Fox and MLB Network collaborated on a revived 30-minute pregame 
show. MLB Network supplied production services and one of its studios, 
while using Fox's graphics and many of their personalities. Matt Vasgersian 
was the primary host, with Harold Reynolds and Kevin Millar serving as 
primary analysts (other analysts from Fox and MLB Network occasionally 
appear and/or fill-in as well). In both 2012 and 2013, Pierzynski was a 
member of the panel during the World Series, when the show traveled to 
the game site and was a complete Fox production. In 2014, Fox ended its 
pregame production partnership with MLB Network, but continued the pregame 
show as it moved back to Los Angeles. Vasgersian was replaced as host by 
Kevin Burkhardt, joined by analysts semi-regular basis by C. J. Nitkowski, 
Frank Thomas and Gabe Kapler. Rob Stone was named as the primary substitute 
host. It was later announced that Vasgersian and Reynolds would move back 
to the broadcast booth, although they would no longer work together. On 
July 8, 1997, Fox televised its first ever All-Star Game[28] (out of Jacobs 
Field in Cleveland). For this particular game, Fox introduced "Catcher-Cam" 
in which a camera was affixed to the catchers' masks in order to provide 
unique perspectives of the action around home plate. Catcher-Cam soon would 
become a regular fixture on Fox's baseball broadcasts. In addition to Catcher-Cam, 
other innovations (some of which have received more acclaim than others) 
that Fox has provided for baseball telecasts have been: Fox executives 
shelved the ball tracer, strike zone, and high home cam after the prime 
time game on April 16, 2004, although Scooter was still used until 2006. 
In October 2004, Fox started airing all Major League Baseball postseason 
broadcasts (including the League Championship Series and World Series) 
in high definition; Fox also started airing the Major League Baseball All-Star 
Game in HD that year. Prior to the 2008 season, one of the three regional 
games the network televises each Saturday was presented in HD. Since 2008, 
all MLB games televised by Fox – including Saturday regional games – are 
presented in high definition. On September 29, 2010, Fox announced that 
it planned to use cable-cams[31] for the network's coverage of the National 
League Championship Series and World Series. According to Fox, the cable-cams 
can roam over the field at altitudes ranging from about 12 to 80 feet above 
ground, and would be able to provide overhead shots of, among other things, 
"close plays" at bases and "managers talking to their pitchers on the mound." 
During some broadcasts, Fox has experienced various technical difficulties. 
During its broadcast of Game 3 of the 2007 World Series between the Colorado 
Rockies and Boston Red Sox, for instance, a blackout occurred during the 
top half of the seventh inning, resulting in the disruption of a key moment 
in the game. Fox suffered an outage during their broadcast of Game 1 of 
the 2015 World Series resulting in a brief delay in the game.[32] After 
a brief cutaway to the Los Angeles studios (missing one at-bat), Fox picked 
up the MLB Network-produced feed, which is broadcast to viewers outside 
the United States. This feed used Fox's #2 announce team of Matt Vasgersian 
and John Smoltz. After two innings, Fox's #1 crew of Joe Buck, Harold Reynolds 
and Tom Verducci entered and called the action worldwide. An inning later, 
Fox had their own broadcast back up and running, with Buck, Reynolds and 
Verducci refunding to the Fox booth, while Vasgersian and Smoltz re-entered 
the MLBN booth. For its first year of coverage in 1996, Fox used the scoring 
bug on their Major League Baseball telecasts. Within two years, the bug 
would be expanded to all sports telecasts on Fox and other networks. The 
first scoring bug was a translucent parallelogram with red borders on the 
left and right. The Fox logo and inning were on the left side, with the 
score on the right side. The count and number of outs were underneath. 
A diamond would be displayed around the bug only when runners were on base. 
An occupied base was represented by a red dot. The bug was slightly modified 
in 1998. The layout remained the same but it now was a square. The teams 
and scores also now had a white background, with a red arrow indicating 
which team was at bat. Occupied bases were now represented by a yellow 
triangle. Also beginning in 1998, pitch speed began to briefly cover the 
count and outs area after a pitch was thrown. In 1999, Fox unveiled a new 
scoring bug that was nearly identical to the NFL bug unveiled the previous 
fall. A permanent baserunner graphic (with a design that would be used 
through 2008) was on the left side of the bug and occupied bases would 
light up in yellow. The team scores were on a black background on the right 
side of the bug. A bar with the Fox logo and the inning (now with a standard 
up or down arrow to indicate top or bottom of the inning) extended from 
the top. A bar with the count and the number of outs extended from the 
bottom. During the 2000 season,[33] the bug sometimes would move to the 
lower portion of the screen and flip over to reveal player statistics graphics. 
However, this feature was not always utilized as player statistics graphics 
would sometimes simply fade onto the screen with the bug still in place. 
For the 2001 season, Fox implemented a new graphics package for its MLB 
telecasts, which debuted on the network's NASCAR broadcasts that year. 
The graphics package was an updated version of the design in 1999, but 
its score bug was revised as a top-screen banner. A simple, transparent 
black rectangle with a shaded area above it spanned the top of the screen 
from left to right, displaying the diamond graphic representing the baseball 
diamond, and the abbreviations of both teams in white. The scores would 
be shown in yellow boxes next to the team abbreviations; the center showed 
the inning (a triangle was placed to the left of the inning number to show 
which half-inning it was: pointing up to represent the top of an inning 
and pointing down to represent the bottom of an inning), to the right was 
the number of outs, right of that was the pitch count and the pitch speed 
(the pitch speed was in the same location as the pitch count, and the pitch 
speed would appear be in a yellow box); and the MLB on Fox logo was placed 
on the far right. This banner, along with the shaded area above it, retracted 
from the top of the screen whenever it appeared or was removed. Like the 
scoring bug, this version of the score banner would also be removed at 
critical points. Midway through the 2003 season, the banner was slightly 
changed to mirror that used by FSN, although Fox retained its own graphics 
package; it was enlarged, except on All-Star Game and World Series telecasts 
as well as the April 16, 2004 Yankees–Red Sox game, and made more translucent. 
During Fox's coverage of the 2003 World Series and the 2004 All-Star Game, 
a logo other than the MLB on Fox logo was placed on the far right of the 
banner instead during non-regular season game broadcasts (e.g. World Series 
on Fox, All-Star Game on Fox, etc.) While Fox Sports upgraded the graphics 
packages on its other properties, the NFL, NFL Europe, and NASCAR starting 
with the 2003 NFL season, baseball telecasts continued to use this on-screen 
appearance in 2004 (except during its coverage of that year's postseason), 
but used elements from a new package that debuted for FSN's baseball broadcasts 
in mid-2003. This banner was also used by FSN for all sports broadcasts 
from 2001 until mid-2005, but using different graphics packages than the 
one Fox used. A graphic from this package was seen during the 15th inning 
of the 2008 All-Star Game, when Fox displayed highlights from the 1967 
MLB All-Star Game, but only seen in the 4:3 frame on the HD broadcast. 
Starting with the 2004 postseason, Fox's baseball broadcasts began using 
the same graphics package that debuted with NFL broadcasts in 2003. The 
score banner was changed to match the layout adopted by the network's football 
coverage at the start of the 2004 season, but using the abbreviations of 
the teams playing instead of their logos. The team abbreviations were shown 
this time in electronic eggcrate lettering in the team's main color, the 
shaded area above the score banner was removed, and the scores were shown 
in white text in black parallelograms. Whenever team-specific information 
was displayed in the banner such as a scored run or an out, the abbreviation 
would morph into the team logo with the scored run being displayed; the 
team who would score a run would have its abbreviation morph into its logo 
and a "strobe light" would flash over the black parallelogram as the score 
changes. When a home run was displayed in the banner, a split "strobe light" 
would flash a few times across the banner with the words "HOME RUN (team)" 
in the team's color then zooming in to the center from both left and right 
angles, accompanied by two distorted electric buzzes followed by a futuristic 
computer sounder. This marked the first time that a home run was displayed 
in the banner. When it appeared, flashing lights spanning the top of the 
screen with two moving lines on top and bottom would join to morph into 
the banner; when first formed, the team logos were shown before changing 
into the abbreviations. When it was removed, the banner became just a quick 
beam of light spanning the top of the screen, which would disappear very 
quickly. During the 2005 World Series, a new white banner was introduced. 
This would resemble a chrome finish, and the team abbreviations became 
white letters in the team's main color; the next few years, the new banner 
was adopted for all games. This banner, unlike the 2001–2004 version, would 
not be removed for the final out of the World Series but was dropped at 
other critical points (like whenever Alex Rodriguez came to bat, tied with 
an April record 14 home runs, and when Barry Bonds had 753). Beginning 
with the 2006 NFL season, Fox's other properties, the NFL, NASCAR, the 
Bowl Championship Series, and Formula One, again upgraded their graphics 
packages (Formula One used a different graphics package than the other 
three properties), but baseball broadcasts continued to use this on-screen 
design in 2007. It was also used in the July 12, 2008 game between the 
Colorado Rockies and the New York Mets until the 9th inning, but with the 
2008 graphics package instead of the package that was used with this banner. 
For the 2008 season, Fox's baseball broadcasts began using the same graphics 
package adopted for NFL on Fox telecasts in 2006. The diamond graphic was 
placed to the right of the scores, and slimmed down to only consist of 
the main three bases (unlike other implementations which include the home 
plate); the MLB on Fox logo was moved to the far left side. The colored 
strip across the top of the banner was rendered in blue at all times (instead 
of being in the colors of the active team), the team abbreviations are 
no longer in the team's main color, like the 2001–2004 banner, and the 
shaded area above (which was used for the first time since the 2001–2004 
banner was last used) does not contain the animated stripe pattern. The 
stripe pattern only appeared within the player stats graphic. The team's 
logo no longer flashes after scoring a run; however, the background sound 
of a computer mouse clicking is played with the score change. The banner 
also no longer flashes after a home run; along with the usual clicking 
sound effect, the text "HOME RUN: (team)" on the team color's background 
instead clicks in the empty space on the far right, which also includes 
the count and the out-of-town scores. The same is used for the NFL on Fox 
scoreboard, when a touchdown or a field goal is scored. This banner is 
very similar to the 2001–2004 score banner, since it and the shaded area 
above retract from the top of the screen whenever it appeared or was removed, 
but in a rather different way. The team names are always abbreviated (for 
example if the Philadelphia Phillies were playing the New York Mets, they 
would be listed as "PHI" and the Mets would be listed as "NYM"), but the 
scores are not shown in yellow boxes. If a team scores, the team letters 
and score numbers flip while the points are being added. If a team scores 
a home run, this happens 5–6 seconds after the "HOME RUN" bar pops out. 
The ball strike count pops out of the blank area when needed. The bug is 
removed for reporting camera angles and for the press box camera. Like 
its predecessor, the bug was not removed for the final out of the World 
Series. For the 2009 season, telecasts began using the same graphics package 
implemented by FSN, with the scoreboard now including a rectangular box 
in the top-left corner of the 4:3 safe area. Along with FSN in observance 
of the holiday weekend, the baserunner graphic was changed to a blue pattern 
with stars during the Fourth of July weekend and All-Star Game in 2010. 
Also in July 2010, broadcasts began to be produced in full 16:9 widescreen 
and letterboxed for standard definition viewers through the use of the 
#10 Active Format Description code (which is primarily used for Fox broadcasts 
transmitted to pay television providers via its stations). The score box 
was moved to be in the top-left corner of the widescreen feed. Starting 
with Opening Day of the 2011 MLB season, both the Fox broadcast network 
and Fox Sports Networks began using the same graphics package adopted for 
NFL on Fox telecasts in 2010, featuring a new horizontal layout with team 
abbreviations (as opposed to the use of team logos on the NFL version) 
and scores flanking a display of the inning, diamond, count, outs (represented 
by 3 lights), and pitch speed in the center. The new scoreboard was also 
able to slide open to reveal statistical information or home run notifications. 
For the 2012 MLB season, the score box was modified to use cap insignias 
instead of team abbreviations, and outs were now represented by only two 
lamps. Beginning with the 2012 NLCS, the score box was modified again to 
match the new layout adopted by Fox's NFL coverage at the start of the 
2012 season; teams and scores reverted to being vertically stacked on the 
left, the base graphic moved to the right-hand side, pitch speed is displayed 
below the base graphic (which now displays the pitch count below the diamond 
after 40 pitches as well), while the count, outs, and inning number moved 
to a tab below the box. This graphic was also not removed for the final 
out of the World Series. In late-March 2013, the Fox Sports Networks began 
using this version in time for the start of the 2013 MLB season (the previous 
scoring bug was used for 2013 Spring training games). For 2014, Fox's MLB 
coverage debuted a new graphics package first seen on its NASCAR broadcasts 
in February 2014. Notably, the score box was moved to the bottom-left corner 
of the screen.[34] The box places the team abbreviations and scores on 
the left side over the team's background color. On the top of the right 
side is the inning (which is the only component in yellow text) and the 
base graphic; the lower right contains the count and outs (represented 
by two dots). Above the main box is a new "dynamic" strip, which by default 
shows the last name of the current pitcher along with the number of pitches 
he has thrown. However, this strip can be expanded and change color to 
display team-specific information, such as on-deck hitters and pitchers 
warming up in the bullpen. In June 2015, this was also expanded to include 
a white area featuring the last name of the current batter and their performance 
throughout the game (or their average for their first time at-bat). When 
a home run is hit, the main box turns to the team's color and displays 
the text "Home Run", while the dynamic strip grows and displays the name 
of the team over the team's logo. Other times (usually on FSN), the dynamic 
strip displays the name of the player who hit that home run and the main 
box displays the type of home run and how many home runs that player has 
hit during the season. The graphics package itself is similar to the previous 
design, though these graphics are more in the shape of a square, with a 
typeface that is less athletic in style than the previous Fox graphic packages. 
For the 2016 season, the score box was moved to the bottom right. NJJ Music 
composed the original MLB on Fox theme music in 1996. This theme music 
was used exclusively from June 1996 until early May 2007. In mid-May 2007, 
an updated version was unveiled featuring a more jazzy feel featuring a 
full orchestra instead of the synth elements used by the 1996 theme. For 
the 2007 postseason, a Jochen Flach-composed slow orchestral theme was 
unveiled, and was used alongside the new orchestral theme for the All-Star 
Game and postseason from the 2007 ALCS until the 2010 All-Star Game. Fox 
Saturday Baseball, including the prime time games starting in 2010, still 
used the 2007 version of the regular theme song exclusively. Beginning 
with the 2010 postseason, both the 2007 theme and the Flach theme were 
replaced by the longtime NFL on Fox theme music, which began to be used 
for all Fox sporting events. However, starting in 2011 and continuing to 
today, various songs from the album "Heroes: The Olympic Collection" were 
used when going into commercial breaks during the All-Star Game, postseason, 
and other marquee games such Red Sox-Yankees games. In 2014, the 2007–2010 
jazz theme was brought back for Fox Saturday Baseball and coverage of the 
Division Series and League Championship Series. The NFL theme was retained 
for Baseball Night in America, the All-Star Game and the World Series. 
However, occasionally one of the two themes was heard on telecasts that 
were designated for the other, implying that the designations are slightly 
fluid. Fox Sports has received criticism[35][36] from sports fans for perceived 
bias[37][38] toward teams in certain conferences, especially during the 
Super Bowl and the World Series, usually the National Football Conference 
in the National Football League (due to the fact that Fox owns the rights 
to NFC games) and the American League in Major League Baseball (especially 
the New York Yankees and Boston Red Sox[39]). Fox rarely shows teams from 
outside the top-10 media markets during the regular season. In addition, 
in recent years, "O Canada" was preempted during the All-Star Game for 
commercials. Commissioner Bud Selig presented the Commissioner's Historic 
Achievement Award to deceased Pittsburgh Pirates legend Roberto Clemente 
between the fourth and fifth innings of the 2006 All-Star Game.[40] Clemente's 
widow, Vera, accepted the award. Fox play-by-play announcer Joe Buck emceed 
the ceremony. As a result, he called the bottom of the fourth inning from 
the entrance behind home plate. Buck arguably created a little controversy 
when after Vera Clemente spoke what many said was a beautiful, moving speech 
Buck asked the fans, "You guys having fun out here?!" In 2007, Joe Buck 
was only scheduled to call eight regular season MLB games out of a 26-game 
schedule for Fox (along with a handful of regional St. Louis Cardinals 
telecasts on FSN Midwest). In an interview with Richard Sandomir of the 
New York Times, Buck defended his reduced baseball commitment:[41] If you 
or the casual fan doesn't want to consider me the No. 1 baseball announcer 
at Fox, it's not my concern ... I don't know why it would matter. I don't 
know who had a more tiresome, wall-to-wall schedule than my father, and 
I know what it's like to be a kid in that situation ... He was gone a lot. 
He needed to be. I understood it. So did my mom. Because my career has 
gone the way it's gone, I don't have to go wall to wall. ...While I’m deathly 
afraid of overexposure, I'm more afraid of underexposure at home with my 
wife and girls.[42] In 2008, Buck drew criticism for comments he made during 
an appearance on ESPN Radio's The Herd with Colin Cowherd, in which he 
admitted to spending "barely any" time following sporting events he does 
not broadcast, and facetiously claimed that he preferred watching The Bachelorette 
instead.[43] In general, Fox's initial lead broadcast team of Joe Buck[44][45][46] 
and Tim McCarver[47] had been heavily scrutinized, much less criticized[48][49]>[50] 
over time. During the 2012 National League Championship Series between 
the San Francisco Giants and St. Louis Cardinals, Buck and McCarver were 
accused by the San Francisco media[51] in particular, of being too biased 
towards the Cardinals.[52] In Game 4 of the 1997 American League Championship 
Series, on a wild pitch with runners dashing around the bases, when umpire 
Durwood Merrill gestured to where the ball was, color commentator Tim McCarver 
sarcastically commented that "maybe he was trying to tell himself where 
the ball is!" Merrill heard about that, took offense to it, and fired back 
in his autobiography that he was letting the other umpires know that the 
situation was under control. Meanwhile, when rule questions come up during 
a broadcast, McCarver frequently will explain the rule, sometimes incorrectly. 
For example, after a St. Louis Cardinals balk in Game 4 of the 2006 NLCS, 
McCarver explained, "You have to have 'one thousand one' when coming to 
a stop, and you have to stop your glove in the same place every time in 
front of your body", when the rules state that there must be merely a complete 
discernible stop anywhere in front of the pitcher's body; no certain duration 
or location is necessary.[53] McCarver has also been known to make verbal 
gaffes, particularly with player's names (notably confusing Albert Pujols 
with the retired Luis Pujols, as well as repeatedly referring to Bronson 
Arroyo as "Brandon Arroyo" during the 2004 World Series). During the 2009 
World Series, he referred to New York Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter as 
"Jerek Deter". In 2006, an episode of the Fox animated series Family Guy 
lampooned McCarver's broadcasting ability with the quip, "Well, at least 
he couldn't be any worse than Tim McCarver is at sportscasting." To make 
matters worse, during the 2011 World Series, Joe Posnanski of Sports Illustrated 
argued that McCarver was becoming more and more useless as an analyst.[54] 
McCarver has in general, been accused of overanalyzing situations,[55] 
being too verbose, and not allow a game to breathe.[49] During their broadcast 
of Game 3 of the 2006 American League Championship Series, Lou Piniella, 
who is of Spanish descent, made an analogy involving the luck of finding 
a wallet, and then briefly used a couple of Spanish phrases. Fox color 
commentator Steve Lyons responded by saying that Piniella was "hablaing 
Español" – Spanglish for "speaking Spanish" – and added, "I still can't 
find my wallet. I don't understand him, and I don't want to sit close to 
him now." On October 13, 2006, Fox fired Lyons for making these remarks, 
which the network determined to be racially insensitive.[56] Lyons was 
replaced for the last game of the series in Detroit by Los Angeles Angels 
announcer José Mota. Piniella later stated that he thought that Lyons was 
just "kidding" and that Lyons was, per Piniella's experience, not bigoted.[57] 
Lyons had previously maligned Los Angeles Dodgers outfielder Shawn Green, 
who is Jewish, for sitting out a game on Yom Kippur in 2004, saying "He's 
not even a practicing Jew. He didn't marry a Jewish girl. And from what 
I understand, he never had a bar mitzvah, which is unfortunate because 
he doesn't get the money." Lyons was suspended briefly without pay after 
his remarks, and Fox apologized for Lyons' comments, though Lyons never 
made an on-air apology.[58] On July 24, 2012, Matt Yoder of Awful Announcing 
questioned Fox's need to hire local broadcasters on their national telecasts[59] 
and therefore, bringing about a perceived sense of favoritism towards one 
of the participating teams. For example, Billy Ripken, who played for the 
Baltimore Orioles alongside his Hall of Fame brother Cal, was roundly criticized 
for his perceived favoritism towards the Orioles[60] while broadcasting 
an Orioles–Detroit Tigers game (even by actor Jeff Daniels via Twitter) 
for Fox the previous week. The following week came a Philadelphia Phillies–San 
Francisco Giants telecast on Fox, which was called by Phillies play-by-play 
announcer Tom McCarthy and former Phillies pitcher Mitch Williams. McCarthy 
and Williams were in particular, singled out for their rather downbeat 
manner of calling a Matt Cain home run off Cole Hamels in the top of the 
3rd inning. This was contrasted by their more enthusiastic call of Hamels 
returning the favor with a home run in the bottom half of the inning. Since 
along with Tom Verducci, succeeding Tim McCarver as Fox's lead color commentator 
in 2014, Harold Reynolds has been accused contributing to little more superficial, 
surface-level stuff on telecasts.[61] For example, during Game 5 the 2015 
American League Championship Series, when Toronto's Chris Colabello cranked 
a solo homer in the second, Reynolds simple contribution was, "Well, I 
guess he made an adjustment." More to the point, immediately after, Verducci 
jumped in and explained how that was the first home run that Kansas City 
starter Edinson Vólquez had allowed in his past 1,228 changeups. Reynolds’ 
response was "How do you know that? Unbelievable, Tom. You were sitting 
on that one, weren’t you?" While covering the 2005 Major League Baseball 
All-Star Game at Comerica Park in Detroit, host Jeanne Zelasko angered 
many fans for her treatment of legendary broadcaster Ernie Harwell.[62] 
Many disliked the way Zelasko abruptly – and in many fans' eyes, awkwardly 
– cut Harwell off just 17 seconds into a pre-game interview, as Harwell 
was detailing the accomplishments of famous Tiger Al Kaline.[63] Harwell 
later said he was not offended by Zelasko, and let the matter drop. In 
September 2008, Zelasko took heat for referring to the Tampa Bay Rays as 
the "Tampa Rays".[64] Jeanne Zelasko has in general, been accused of being 
too flippant,[65] not particularly knowledgeable about the sport of baseball, 
and inserting too many corny cliches or plays on words[66] during broadcasts. 
Chris Rose has been criticized for appearing to be too chummy[67] with 
players that he has interviewed during Fox's baseball coverage. For example, 
during the 2009 World Series, Rose referred to Derek Jeter of the New York 
Yankees as "Jeets". One year later during the World Series, Rose referred 
to both Brian Wilson and Tim Lincecum of the San Francisco Giants as "his 
friends". Field reporter Erin Andrews' performance has been criticized 
since she joined Fox Sports' MLB coverage in 2012. For example,[68] Andrews 
during trophy presentations, has been accused of showing an extreme lack 
of knowledge by reading off notes. More to the point, during the trophy 
presentation at the end of the 2013 American League Championship Series, 
Andrews misidentified former Anaheim Angels owner and honorary American 
League president Jackie Autry as her late husband Gene. Andrews was further 
criticized during the trophy presentations for the 2014 World Series[69] 
due to her very generic questions that for the most part, lacked insight.[70] 
Scooter debuted in the 2004 baseball season on April 16, during a game 
between the New York Yankees and Boston Red Sox.[71] While Fox Sports television 
chairman David Hill called Scooter "really cute and really terrific", the 
character has garnered few positive reactions otherwise, with Sports Illustrated 
writer John Donovan warning "purists everywhere, grab the barf bag,"[72] 
and Sports Illustrated media writer Richard Deitsch using Scooter as an 
example of "how technology does not always help society."[73] The Sporting 
News reported polling their staff with the question "What best summarizes 
your feelings for Scooter, Fox's talking baseball?": 45% of responders 
chose the answer "Send him to a slow, painful death."[74] Despite most 
reactions, Scooter would still be used in televised baseball games until 
after the 2006 World Series. Beginning with the 2010 MLB playoffs, Fox 
has used its NFL theme music for its MLB coverage (and all other Fox Sports 
properties, including NASCAR and UFC events). There has been backlash from 
fans who believe that the NFL theme does not belong on MLB coverage,[68][75] 
and that the previous MLB theme should return. A poll by Sports Media Watch 
noted that as of October 23, 2010, while nearly 60% of fans thought that 
Fox made a bad move, only 11% thought it was a good move and 30% had no 
opinion (all percentages rounded).[76] As previously mentioned, in July 
2010, the on-screen graphics were repositioned for the 16:9 aspect ratio, 
as all HDTV programming from the Fox network began to be presented in a 
letterboxed format using an Active Format Description code for standard 
definition viewers. The supposed high-definition picture, however, has 
been derided as coming across as highly imperfect,[77][78] lacking the 
detail and clarity normally expected from a high-definition broadcast. 
During the 2012 National League Championship Series, Fox's camera angles 
were criticized for being directly in-line with home plate,[79] thus often 
ensuring that a pitcher's head blocked the view. Fox's camera angles were 
again criticized[80] (this time in an elevated and more dead center camera 
angle) during FS1's coverage of Game 1 of the 2016 National League Division 
Series between the Chicago Cubs and San Francisco Giants. During the bottom 
of the 9th in Game 4 of the 2013 World Series between the Boston Red Sox 
and St. Louis Cardinals, Fox's cameras missed Boston closer Koji Uehara 
picking off pinch runner Kolten Wong to end the game (it was the first 
