The Major League Baseball Comeback Player of the Year Award is presented 
by Major League Baseball (MLB) to the player who is judged to have "re-emerged 
on the baseball field during a given season."[1] The award was developed 
in 2005, as part of a sponsorship agreement between MLB and Viagra.[1] 
In 2005 and 2006 representatives from MLB and MLB.com selected six candidates 
each from the American (AL) and National Leagues (NL) and one winner for 
each league was selected via an online poll on MLB.com.[1][2] Since then, 
the winners have been selected by a panel of MLB beat reporters.[3][4][5] 
Under the current voting structure, first place votes are worth five points, 
second place votes worth three, and third place votes worth one with the 
award going to the player with the most points overall.[6] Past winners 
have often overcome injury or personal problems en route to their award-winning 
season. A Comeback Player of the Year Award has been given by The Sporting 
News since 1965 but its results are not officially recognized by Major 
League Baseball. Since the beginning of the MLB award in 2005, the recipients 
have been identical with the following exceptions: 2008 NL (MLB honored 
Brad Lidge, TSN honored Fernando Tatís) and 2010 AL (MLB honored Francisco 
Liriano, TSN honored Vladimir Guerrero). Francisco Liriano is the only 
person to win the MLB award multiple times (2010 AL, 2013 NL), and the 
first to win it in each league. Twelve players were named to the Major 
League Baseball All-Star team in their Comeback Award winning season: Jim 
Thome, Nomar Garciaparra, Dmitri Young, Cliff Lee, Brad Lidge, Aaron Hill, 
Tim Hudson, Lance Berkman, Jacoby Ellsbury, Buster Posey, Fernando Rodney, 
and Mariano Rivera. Two players who were not named to the All-Star team 
in their winning year—Jason Giambi and Ken Griffey, Jr.—were named to the 
All-Star team in their previous season. Several winners have won other 
awards in their winning season. Carlos Peña, Posey, Ellsbury, Griffey and 
Hill won the Silver Slugger Award along with the Comeback Award. Posey 
won the NL MVP in his comeback season. Lee won the Cy Young Award in his 
winning season and Lidge won both the Rolaids Relief Man and DHL Delivery 
Man Awards the same year. Rodney was also named Delivery Man in his comeback 
2012 season. The most recent winners are Matt Harvey from the NL and Prince 
