Major League Baseball on DuMont refers to the now defunct DuMont Television 
Network's coverage of Major League Baseball. More specifically, DuMont 
broadcast the World Series (during its very early years as a televised 
event) from 1947-1949. Gillette,[1] who produced World Series telecasts[2] 
from roughly 1947-1965 (before 1966, local announcers, who were chosen 
by the Gillette Company, the Commissioner of Baseball, and NBC television, 
exclusively called the World Series), paid for airtime on DuMont's owned-and-operated 
Pittsburgh affiliate, WDTV (now KDKA-TV) air the World Series. In the meantime, 
Gillette also bought airtime on ABC, CBS, and NBC. More to the point, in 
some cities, the World Series was broadcast on three different stations 
at once. For example, the 1947 World Series (for which DuMont only televised 
Games 2, 6–7 with Bill Slater on the call)[3] was only seen in four markets[4][5] 
via coaxial inter-connected stations: New York City, New York; Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania; Schenectady, New York; Washington, District of Columbia; 
and, environs surrounding these cities. Outside of New York, coverage was 
pooled. For the 1948 World Series, games in Boston were only seen in the 
Northeast. Meanwhile, games in Cleveland were only seen in the Midwest 
and Pittsburgh. The games were open to all channels with a network affiliation.[6][7] 
In all, the 1948 World Series was televised to fans in seven Midwestern 
cities: Cleveland, Chicago, Detroit, Milwaukee, St. Louis, and Toledo. 
By 1949, World Series games could now be seen east of the Mississippi River.[8] 
The games were open to all channels with a network affiliation.[9] By the 
start of the 1950s, Major League Baseball was, for the most part, still 
in the province of the local market television stations. Outside of these 
markets, however, televised baseball (unlike on radio) was rare. DuMont's 
sports programming head, Thomas McMahon[15] was working with individual 
owners to televise Major League Baseball's first regular season national 
games in the summer of 1953.[16] McMahon planned (as far back as January 
1953) to set up a corporation to sell the national MLB telecasts meanwhile, 
giving stock shares to minor league teams. More specifically, McMahon's 
plan was to negotiate with individual teams rather than Major League Baseball 
as a whole. This way, McMahon could avoid a potential antitrust suit from 
the Department of Justice. In order to counter the possible negative effect 
on the minors (which Western League president Edwin C. Johnson most predominately 
feared), McMahon would offer them a piece of the national television pie. 
Furthermore, McMahan argued that since the planned DuMont games would be 
held on Saturday afternoons, the minors that scheduled most of their games 
in the evening wouldn't have been greatly affected. Ultimately, however, 
the first national Game of the Week package didn't air on DuMont, but on 
ABC. In April 1953, ABC set out to sell teams rights but instead, only 
got the Philadelphia Athletics, Cleveland Indians,[17] and Chicago White 
Sox[18][19] to sign on.[20] To make matters worse, Major League Baseball 
barred the Game of the Week from airing within 50 miles of any ballpark.[21] 
DuMont's owned-and-operated stations are highlighted in yellow. The Paramount 
owned-and-operated stations, which didn't carry DuMont programs but were 
ruled DuMont O&Os by the FCC, are shown in pink. Since relocated franchises 
