Baseball collusion refers to owners working together to avoid competitive 
bidding for player services or players jointly negotiating with team owners. 
Collusion in baseball is formally defined in the Major League Baseball 
Collective Bargaining Agreement, which states "Players shall not act in 
concert with other Players and Clubs shall not act in concert with other 
Clubs." [1] Major League Baseball went through a period of owner collusion 
during the off-seasons of 1985, 1986, and 1987. Historically, owner collusion 
was often referred to as a "gentleman's agreement".[2] After the 1918 season, 
owners released all their players – terminating the non-guaranteed contracts, 
with a "gentleman's agreement" not to sign each other's players, as a means 
of forcing down player salaries.[3] Before the 1966 season, Sandy Koufax 
and Don Drysdale decided to hold joint negotiations with the Los Angeles 
Dodgers. Koufax and Drysdale were the team's star pitchers who had helped 
the Dodgers win the 1965 World Series. The Dodgers needed them if they 
were to have any chance of returning to the World Series in 1966. After 
negotiation for the first 32 days of spring training, they agreed on one-year 
contracts, Koufax for US$125,000 and Drysdale for $110,000, the two largest 
contracts in baseball history. The owners were fearful that other star 
players would follow their example.[4] In 1968, new union leader Marvin 
Miller negotiated baseball's first Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) 
with team owners. The owners wanted to prohibit players from holding joint 
negotiations. Miller was willing to agree, provided that the ban applied 
to the owners as well. The owners readily agreed, and every CBA since then 
has included the sentence: "Players shall not act in concert with other 
Players and Clubs shall not act in concert with other Clubs." [1] Shortly 
after being elected commissioner in 1984, Peter Ueberroth addressed the 
owners at a meeting in St. Louis. Ueberroth called the owners "damned dumb" 
for being willing to lose millions of dollars in order to win a World Series. 
Later, at a separate meeting with the general managers in Tarpon Springs, 
Florida, Ueberroth said that it was "not smart" to sign long-term contracts. 
The message was obvious—hold down salaries by any means necessary. It later 
emerged that the owners agreed to keep contracts down to three years for 
position players and two for pitchers.[5] The free agent market following 
the 1985 season was different from any since the Seitz decision a decade 
earlier. Of 35 free agents, only four changed teams—and those four were 
not wanted by their old teams. Star players, such as Kirk Gibson, Tommy 
John and Phil Niekro, did not receive offers from other teams. The cover 
of the December 9, 1985 edition of Sporting News asked, "Why Won't Anyone 
Sign Kirk Gibson?"[6] George Steinbrenner offered Carlton Fisk a contract, 
then withdrew the offer after getting a call from Chicago White Sox chairman 
Jerry Reinsdorf.[7] Teams also reduced team rosters from 25 to 24 players. 
By December, several agents thought something was amiss, and complained 
to Major League Baseball Players Association (MLBPA) president Donald Fehr. 
In February 1986, the MLBPA filed its first grievance, later known as "Collusion 
I." The free agent market following the 1986 season was not much better 
for the players. Only four free agents switched teams. Andre Dawson took 
a pay cut and a one-year contract to sign with the Chicago Cubs. Three 
fourths of the free agents signed one-year contracts. Star players that 
ended up back with their old teams included Jack Morris (Detroit Tigers), 
Tim Raines (Montreal Expos), Ron Guidry (New York Yankees), Rich Gedman 
(Red Sox), Bob Boone (California Angels), and Doyle Alexander (Atlanta 
Braves). For the first time since the start of free agency, the average 
major league salary declined. The average free-agent salary dropped by 
16 percent, while MLB reported revenues increasing by 15 percent. This 
prompted the MLBPA to file a second grievance (Collusion II) on February 
18, 1987. Even as this was happening, Ueberroth ordered the owners to tell 
him personally if they planned to offer contracts longer than three years.[5] 
In September 1987, the Collusion I case came before arbitrator Thomas Roberts, 
who ruled that the owners had violated the CBA by conspiring to restrict 
player movement. After the ruling, the owners changed their tactic, but 
not their intent. They created an "information bank" to share information 
about what offers were being made to players. Players affected included 
Paul Molitor, Jack Clark, and Dennis Martínez. In January 1988 the MLBPA 
filed its third grievance (Collusion III). On January 18, 1988, damages 
were announced in the Collusion I case. Roberts determined damages of $10.5 
million should be paid by the owners to the players. By then, only 14 of 
the 1985 free agents were still in baseball, and Roberts awarded seven 
of them a second chance as "new look" free agents. They could offer their 
services to any team without losing their existing contracts. On January 
29, 1988, Kirk Gibson signed a $4.5 million, three-year contract with the 
Los Angeles Dodgers. In October 1989, arbitrator George Nicolau presided 
over Collusion II, and found in favor of the players. Nicolau determined 
damages of $38 million. "New look" free agents included Ron Guidry, Bob 
Boone, Doyle Alexander, Willie Randolph, Brian Downing and Rich Gedman.[8] 
Collusion III damages were $64.5 million. Owners would also have to compensate 
for losses related to multi-year contracts and lost bonuses. A final settlement 
of the three collusion cases was reached in November 1990. The owners agreed 
to pay the players $280 million, with the MLBPA deciding how to distribute 
the money to the damaged players.[9] At that time, then-commissioner Fay 
Vincent told the owners:[10] The single biggest reality you guys have to 
face up to is collusion. You stole $280 million from the players, and the 
players are unified to a man around that issue, because you got caught 
and many of you are still involved. Miller largely agreed with Vincent's 
sentiments, saying Ueberroth and the owners' behavior was "tantamount to 
fixing, not just games, but entire pennant races, including all post-season 
series."[11] Later, Vincent would blame baseball's labor problems of the 
early 1990s, including the 1994–95 strike, on player anger at what he called 
the owners' theft from the players.[12] In 2005, Vincent claimed that the 
owners used the majors' two rounds of expansion in the 1990s (which produced 
the Florida Marlins, Colorado Rockies, Arizona Diamondbacks and Tampa Bay 
Rays) in part to pay the damages from the collusion settlement.[13] Players 
alleged that owners engaged in collusion in the 2002 and 2003 seasons. 
As part of the 2006 CBA, owners agreed to pay the players $12 million from 
"luxury tax" revenue sharing funds. The agreement was made with no admission 
of guilt.[14] In November 2007, the MLB Players' Union raised concerns 
that owners collusively shared information about free agents and possibly 
conspired to keep the final price of Alex Rodriguez's new free agent contract 
down.[15] In October 2008, the MLB Players' Association indicated that 
it would file a collusion grievance against the owners claiming that they 
conspired illegally to keep Barry Bonds from receiving a 2008 contract.[16] 
The grievance was abandoned because there were no grounds to force a team 
to sign a player against their will, and no proof of any organized effort 
