The uniforms worn by Major League Baseball teams have changed significantly 
since professional baseball was first played in the 19th century. Over 
time they have adapted from improvised, wool uniforms to mass-produced 
team brands made from polyester. The official supplier for Major League 
Baseball uniforms is Majestic Athletic, who has held the official contract 
since 2005.[1] The official rules of Major League Baseball require that 
all players on a team wear matching uniforms, although this rule was not 
enforced in the early days. Originally, teams were primarily distinguished 
by the colors of their stockings and the success of the Cincinnati Red 
Stockings popularized the adoption of sock color as the explicit identity 
of the club. The 1876 Chicago White Stockings actually wore caps of different 
colors. In 1882, the National League assigned stocking colors to the member 
clubs: red for Boston, white for Chicago, grey for Buffalo, blue for Worcester, 
gold for Detroit, green for Troy, and so on. That year, the league also 
assigned jersey and cap colors, but by player position rather than by club. 
Traditionally, when playing at home, teams wore uniforms that were mostly 
white with trim in team colors and when playing away, they wore uniforms 
that were mostly gray with trim in team colors. Aside from the obvious 
need to distinguish one team from the other, conventional wisdom held that 
it was more difficult to properly launder uniforms while on a road trip, 
thus the "road grays" helped to hide accumulated soil. This convention 
continued well after its original premise was nullified by the issuance 
of multiple uniforms and the growth of the laundromat industry. Starting 
in the 1970s, with the advent of synthetic fabrics, teams began using more 
color in their uniforms, notably the Kansas City Athletics in 1963, the 
San Diego Padres' unusual brown-and-yellow scheme beginning in 1969, and 
the Houston Astros' rainbow stripes in the mid-1970s. In the late 1970s, 
the Pittsburgh Pirates began a trend of multiple combinations of differently 
colored jerseys and trousers and caps (with the options of black, yellow, 
and white with pin stripes). At one point in the 1970s, the Cleveland Indians 
had an all-red uniform. From 1976 to 1981, the Chicago White Sox at times 
had an all-blue uniform, part of a radical style which included a jersey 
with a large collar, worn untucked – and, for two games in 1976, shorts. 
In his comedy routine "Baseball & Football", George Carlin observes that 
in baseball, as compared to football, the manager is required to wear the 
same uniform the players do.[2] However, this was actually not true in 
the early years of the game. Player-managers were common, but non-playing 
managers whose realm was strictly the dugout often wore business suits, 
a common occurrence at the time. Retired players who became managers were 
more likely to continue to wear a baseball uniform (John McGraw, for example), 
especially if they were also active on the coaching lines; managers often 
doubled as third-base coach. By the late 1940s, nearly all managers were 
wearing baseball uniforms. Connie Mack was the last major league manager 
to wear a suit in the dugout until his retirement in the early 1950s; however, 
in contrast to the uniform-wearing managers, Mack rarely if ever stepped 
onto the field during a game; instead he sent uniformed coaches onto the 
field when a managerial presence outside the dugout was required. Starting 
in the 1990s, MLB clubs began heavily marketing licensed goods, such as 
caps and uniform jerseys to the public and this has resulted in a wide 
array of uniforms for each team. Now, some teams have not only a basic 
home uniform and away uniform, but also special "Sunday game" uniforms 
and uniforms that are worn only during batting practice and uniforms worn 
on singular events. From time to time, individual MLB teams have held "Turn 
Back the Clock Day", regularly scheduled games in which teams donned uniforms 
in styles their predecessors wore generations earlier (sometimes called 
"throwback" uniforms), or other antique-style uniforms such as those of 
Negro League clubs. The Los Angeles Dodgers occasionally use the livery 
of their original identity as the Brooklyn Dodgers, on special anniversaries 
or occasions, for example such as in honor of the retirement of Jackie 
Robinson's uniform number 42 throughout professional baseball (on April 
15 – the anniversary of Robinson's MLB debut – entire teams often wear 
42). In addition, in 1999, MLB staged "Turn Ahead the Clock Day", in which 
teams wore futuristic, somewhat strange-looking uniforms, including futuristic 
or science fiction references, such as the New York Mets being referred 
to as the "Mercury Mets." The result is that it is now often difficult 
to say which uniform is a team's "official" one. For example, from 1999 
to 2006 the Cincinnati Reds wore a variety of caps: all red, red crown 
and black bill, black crown and red bill, and all black, but since 2007, 
only the all-red (home) and red crown/black bill (away) are used. In contrast 
from the pre-1970s era, in which there usually was just one home uniform 
and one road uniform (with certain exceptions, such as Oakland and Pittsburgh's 
complex combinations), today choices of what combination of uniform elements 
are worn are now sometimes left up to players. In some cases, aspects of 
the uniform that are considered official are rarely worn, such as the New 
York Mets' blue home cap, with the orange button, which was rarely seen 
on the field in the years 1998–2012 in favor of an "alternate" black-and-blue 
cap. The Mets added the orange button on their blue caps in 1995. Through 
2014, the New York Yankees and Los Angeles Dodgers wear uniforms which 
have changed little since the 1930s – while the Detroit Tigers have worn 
essentially the same home uniform during that span (only the Tigers, Yankees, 
Chicago White Sox, and Washington Nationals retain the once-common practice 
of placing the cap insignia on their home whites, though many teams, including 
the Nationals and White Sox, do so on alternate jerseys), their road grays 
have changed more often. The Dodgers (a blue jersey once in 1999) and Tigers 
(a navy jersey twice in 1995) had worn alternate uniforms in the past, 
but as of 2010 did not have one (the St. Louis Cardinals didn't wear an 
alternate jersey until 2013, but since 1998 used an alternate cap, with 
the distinctive "birds-on-bat" logo rather than the traditional interlocking 
StL, for some home games). Typically, home uniforms feature the team's 
nickname, while away uniforms feature the name of the team's geographic 
designation. Currently, the Tampa Bay Rays, Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, 
Philadelphia Phillies, St. Louis Cardinals, and Milwaukee Brewers are the 
only exceptions to this rule, although the Brewers reintroduced "Milwaukee" 
on their alternate away uniforms in 2010, and the Cardinals' aforementioned 
2013 alternate placed "St. Louis" on their jerseys for the first time since 
1932. These teams feature the club nickname on both the home and away uniforms 
(since 1900, in 169 seasons – including the Athletics' presence in the 
city from 1901 to 1954 – the full word "Philadelphia" has never appeared 
on a Major League jersey). From 1973 to 2008, the Baltimore Orioles were 
part of this group – the omission of the city's name being part of a largely 
successful effort to attract fans from the Washington, D.C. area – before 
returning "Baltimore" to the road jerseys in 2009, by which time their 
neighbor 38 miles (61 km) to the south once again had a team of its own. 
In 2014, the Los Angeles Dodgers and Chicago Cubs partially joined this 
group, carrying one road jersey with the city name and another with the 
team name, and wearing both interchangeably; in only the third game of 
the season, one player accidentally played the first inning in the "Chicago" 
jersey while the team wore "Cubs". As of 2014, only two teams wear their 
city/state name on their home uniforms, the Texas Rangers and Miami Marlins. 
MLB jerseys worn on the field have been made out of double-knit polyester 
since the early 1970s. The Pittsburgh Pirates were the first to switch 
when the franchise opened Three Rivers Stadium following the 1970 All-Star 
Game. The Cardinals followed suit to open 1971, and the Orioles made a 
gradual change until adopting them full-time for that season's ALCS. In 
the World Series, Baltimore faced the original double-knit converts, the 
Pirates. Sixteen teams debuted double-knits to open 1972; the Red Sox adopted 
them after the All-Star Game, and the Giants debuted them at home only 
at mid-season as well. The final flannel holdouts, the Expos, Royals and 
Yankees, converted to open 1973. Jerseys have featured an MLB logo on the 
back collar since 2000, whereas MLB on-field caps have featured an MLB 
logo on the back since 1992.[3] Until 2007, MLB caps were made out of wool, 
with a gray underbrim having become common by the late 1980s. (The New 
York Yankees were among the last MLB teams to wear caps with the previously 
common kelly green underbrim, only switching their caps to the gray underbrim 
in 1994.) In 2007, all standard MLB caps were made of polyester, with a 
black underbrim to reduce glare. The official rules state that:[4] After 
the death of Twins great Harmon Killebrew in May 2011, the Twins' 2011 
"throwback" alternate uniform became the primary home uniform in honor 
of Killebrew, who wore a similar style of uniform during his playing days 
with the Twins. Another apparent violation of the concept of a "uniform" 
is that some players on a team will wear the traditional knee-breeches 
or "knickers" while other teammates are wearing the more-recent ankle-length, 
closely cut trousers. Many clubs do this at both major and minor league 
level, with no apparent objections. On game days that do not require a 
special uniform (either by team or MLB request) it is generally (but not 
always) the starting pitcher for a team that chooses the uniform to be 
