The Major League Baseball Wild Card Game is a play-in game which was added 
to the Major League Baseball postseason in 2012.[1] The addition keeps 
the playoff format similar to the three-tiered postseason format used from 
1994 through 2011, but adds a second wild-card team. Two wild-card teams 
in each league play each other in a single-game playoff after the end of 
the regular season. The winner of the game advances to the 1st seeded team 
in the Division Series. The home team for the wild-card game is the team 
with the better regular-season record (4th Seed). If both teams have the 
same number of wins and losses, tie-breaking procedures are used, with 
no additional games being played. On the other hand, teams tied for the 
division title will now always play a one-game playoff for the division 
title, even if both teams are already qualified for the postseason. This 
is in contrast to the earlier wild card format used, for example in the 
2005 season when the New York Yankees and Boston Red Sox tied for first 
place in their division but did not play an additional game as both teams 
were qualified for the postseason in any event. In the division series, 
the winner of the wild-card game will always face whichever division champion 
has the best record. All division winners receive a bye as they await the 
result of the game. Previously, a wild-card team could not face the champion 
of its own division. This change makes it possible for the two teams with 
the best record in the league to face each other before the League Championship 
Series for the first time since 1997 (from 1994 to 1997 the matchups for 
the division series were determined by annual rotation between the west, 
central and east divisions). The addition of a second wild-card team to 
each league was completed for multiple reasons: With the adoption of MLB's 
new collective bargaining agreement in November 2011, baseball commissioner 
Bud Selig announced that a new playoff system would begin within the next 
two years; the change was ultimately put into place in 2012.[2] Even though 
one of the stated purposes of the Wild Card game was to create disadvantages 
for Wild Card teams in the postseason,[3] Wild Card Game winners have won 
three of the first six Division Series played under the new format. Of 
the best-of-five Division Series lost by Wild Card Game winners, two lost 
in five games and one lost in four games. The 2014 postseason featured 
the first Series sweeps involving Wild Card Game winners, but they were 
both in favour of the AL Wild Card Kansas City Royals who swept both the 
Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim and the Baltimore Orioles en route to the 
second World Series featuring both NL and AL Wild Card Game winners, with 
the San Francisco Giants defeating the Royals in seven games. The first 
all Wild Card World Series also involved the Giants, but they were on the 
losing end, losing the 2002 World Series to the then Anaheim Angels in 
seven games. The one-game, win-or-go-home Wild Card format favors teams 
with at least one dominant pitcher. In the eight games played since the 
new Wild Card system began in 2012, four have been shutouts. In three of 
the four others, the losing team scored 1, 2, or 3 runs. Only the 2014 
AL Wild Card game between the Kansas City Royals and Oakland Athletics 
featured high scoring by both teams, with the Royals eventually winning 
9-8 in 12 innings. The margin of victory has been four runs or more in 
five of the eight games played, three runs in two of the games, and one 
run only once—in the 2014 Royals-Athletics games. The visiting team has 
