The Major League Baseball postseason is an elimination tournament held 
after the conclusion of the MLB regular season. As of 2012, the playoffs 
for each league—American and National—consist of a one-game wild-card playoff 
between two wild card teams, two best-of-five Division Series (LDS) featuring 
the wild-card winner and the winner of each division, and finally the best-of-seven 
League Championship Series (LCS). The winners of the American League Championship 
Series (ALCS) and the National League Championship Series (NLCS) play each 
other in the best-of-seven World Series. Major League Baseball is the oldest 
of America's major professional sports organizations, with roots dating 
back to the 1870s. As such, it is steeped in tradition. The final series 
to determine its champion has been called the "World Series" (originally 
"World's Championship Series" and then "World's Series") as far back as 
the National League's contests with the American Association starting at 
the beginning of the 1880s. In 1903, the two modern Major League Baseball 
leagues began annual postseason play with a one-round system in which the 
American League team with the best record faced the National League team 
with the best record in a best-of-seven series (in 1903, 1919, 1920, and 
1921 it was best-of-nine) called the World Series; however, there was no 
1904 Series because the National League Champion, the New York Giants, 
refused to play.[citation needed] This single-tiered approach persisted 
through 1968, even with the expansions of 1961–1962 that expanded both 
leagues to 10 teams. In 1969, both leagues expanded to twelve teams, which 
made it more difficult to compete for a league championship because there 
were more teams competing for the AL and NL pennants. In addition, a team 
would play other clubs in its own region of the country more than clubs 
in the rest of the country, creating an unbalanced schedule that in some 
years could give a team from one region an advantage in fighting for a 
single pennant. To remedy this, and imitating the other major sports' long-standing 
playoff traditions, Major League Baseball split each league into Eastern 
and Western divisions, creating four divisions overall and no worse than 
a sixth-place finish for any team in any division until later expansions 
in 1977 and 1993. This created a new postseason round, which was dubbed 
the League Championship Series (LCS), a best-of-five series. In 1985 the 
LCS was expanded to a best-of-seven series. Under this system, it was possible 
for one of the best teams in a league to be left out of the postseason 
if it didn't win its division. Most notably, in 1993, the Atlanta Braves 
and San Francisco Giants finished with the two best records in the majors, 
with 104 and 103 wins, respectively. However, since both teams played in 
the National League West, the Giants missed the postseason by a single 
game. The baseball players' strike of 1981 uniquely—for this era—added 
another round to the postseason. Because the strike split the season into 
two roughly equal halves, the division winners of each half of the 1981 
season first met in a Division Series. The winners of the division series 
then progressed to the league championship series, with the remainder of 
the postseason following a similar format to other years in this era.[1] 
By 1994, further expansion was making it very difficult for any individual 
team to make the postseason. Major League Baseball went through a realignment, 
expanding to three divisions (Eastern, Central, Western) in each league. 
However, only allowing divisional winners in the postseason would make 
an odd number of teams in each league, three. To rectify the odd number 
of teams, the league added wild cards to each league, imitating the original 
post-merger NFL system. The wild-card team would be the team with the best 
record in each league of all the teams that did not win their division. 
Splitting the leagues into three divisions, plus the addition of a wild-card 
team, doubled the postseason contenders in each league from two to four, 
and from four teams overall to eight. This system assured that the team 
with the second-best record in its league would make the postseason even 
if it wasn't a division champion. The addition of a second wild card spot 
would come in 2012. The additional teams meant another elimination round 
was necessary. This new round would become the new first round of the postseason, 
the best-of-five Division Series. This term had first been used for the 
extra round required in 1981 by to the "split-season" scheduling anomaly 
following the midseason baseball players strike. This format was in place 
for the 1994 season, but the players' strike canceled the postseason. The 
format was realized on the field in 1995. Under this format, the wild card 
team played, in the Division Series, the division champion outside its 
own division that had the better record; and the remaining two teams from 
that league played each other in the other Division Series. The winners 
of the two Division Series from each league went on to play each other 
in the League Championship Series. As with the previous postseason format, 
the winners of each League Championship Series met in the World Series. 
With the adoption of the new collective bargaining agreement in November 
2011, baseball commissioner Bud Selig announced that a new playoff system 
would begin within two years; the change was ultimately put into place 
in 2012.[2] The format chosen was the one-game Wild-card playoff. Under 
this format, a second wild card team has been added to each league, i.e., 
the team with the second-highest win total in each league among non-division 
winners. The two wild card teams play in a one-game playoff after the end 
of the regular season, with the winner advancing to the Division Series. 
The divisional champions qualify for the Division Series just as in the 
previous format; however, under the expanded wild card format the winner 
of the one-game wild card playoff faces the top-seeded divisional champion 
in the Division Series, regardless of whether the two teams are in the 
same division, while the second- and third-seeded divisional champions 
play each other in the other Division Series. The format for placement 
in the League Championship Series and World Series remains. The World Series 
used several different formats in its early years. Initially it generally 
followed an alternating home-and-away pattern, except that if a seventh 
game was possible, its site was determined by coin toss prior to the sixth 
game. In 1924 the Series began using a 2-3-2 format, presumably to save 
on travel costs, a pattern that has continued to this day with the exception 
of a couple of the World War II years when wartime travel restrictions 
compelled a 3-4 format (used in 1943 and 1945, but not in the 1944 series, 
which was all in the same stadium in St. Louis). From the start of the 
2-3-2 format through the 2002 season, home-field advantage generally alternated 
between leagues each year. Prior to the 1994 strike, the National League 
champion received home-field advantage in even-numbered years and the American 
League champion in odd-numbered years; these were reversed for 1995–2002 
(because 1994 would have been the NL's turn to have home-field, but the 
World Series was cancelled by the aforementioned strike). That changed 
starting in 2003. The 2002 All-Star Game had ended in a tie, much to the 
displeasure of both fans and sportswriters who complained about a lack 
of intensity and competitiveness on the part of the players. This hit especially 
close to home for Commissioner Bud Selig, as the game had been played in 
his home city of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. In response, to give some real meaning 
to the game, in 2003 MLB began assigning home-field advantage in the World 
Series to the winner of that year's All-Star Game, which is typically held 
in mid-July. Until 1998, the LCS alternated home-field advantage with a 
2-3 format in the best-of-5 era (1969–84) and a 2-3-2 format when it went 
to best-of-7 (1985–present). Since 1998 the team with the better record 
has had this advantage, except that in no case can the wild card ever secure 
the extra home game, regardless of regular-season records. Until 1998, 
the Division Series rotated which of the three division champions would 
not have home field advantage, with the wild card never having it. Now 
the two division winners with the best records in each league have home 
field, with the least-winning divisional winner and the wild card not having 
home field. The DS used a 2-3 format until 1998 and now uses a 2-2-1 format. 
This is seen as a more fair distribution of home field advantage because 
previously under the 2-3 format, the team hosting the first two games had 
absolutely no chance of winning the series at home. With the current 2-2-1 
format however, both teams have the home field advantage in a way. While 
one team gets to host three games (including the critical first and last 
game), the other team does get two chances out of three (games 3 and 4) 
of winning the series on its home field. With the adoption of the expanded 
playoff format in 2012, the five-game Division Series began with two home 
games for lower seeds, followed by up to three home games for higher seeds. 
This one-year change eliminated a travel day prior to a decisive Game 5 
of a Division Series and was necessary because the 2012 regular-season 
schedule was announced before the agreement on the new postseason was reached. 
For 2013, the Division Series returned to the 2-2-1 format used in previous 
years. There are three factors that determine the actual amount of bonus 
money paid to any individual player: 1) the size of the bonus pool; 2) 
their team's success in the season/post-season; and, 3) the share of the 
pool assigned to the individual player. There is a separate pool for each 
series – the Wild Card games, the Division Series, the League Championship 
Series, and the World Series. The players' bonus pool is funded with 60% 
of the gate receipts for each of the Wild Card games, the first three games 
of each Division Series, the first four games of each LCS and the first 
four games of the World Series; limiting the funding for the pool to these 
games, the minimum number in each series, removes incentive to extend the 
series for merely fiscal sake. The value of the gate is determined by the 
size of the venues, the amount of high-priced premium seating in the venues, 
the number of games played in the series and whether or not the games sell 
out. Ticket prices for each series are set by MLB, not the home teams, 
so they are relatively uniform across baseball. The World Series winner 
gets 36%, the World Series loser gets 24%, both League Championship Series 
losers get 12%, the four Division Series losers get 3.25%, and the two 
Wild Card playoff losers get 1.5%.[3] The player shares are voted upon 
by the players that were on the team during the entire regular season in 
a meeting chaired by their union representative. This meeting follows the 
trade deadline on July 31. Players who were with the team for the full 
season automatically receive a full share.[4] Anyone else, including players 
who have not been with the team for a full season, coaches, or trainers 
may be granted a full share, less than a full share, a cash award, or no 
share as a result of the vote by the full season players. The pool of money 
is split according to the shares determined in the vote. There is no limit 
to the number of shares that may be granted, but a greater number of shares 
dilutes the value of each share, and consequently the amount each player 
is awarded. As an example, playoff pool full share holders for the St. 
Louis Cardinals received $362,183.97 each when the team won the World Series 
