Major League Baseball has several blackout rules. Games are blacked out 
based on two criteria: All of the Contiguous United States, except for 
some small, remote, isolated patches, are within at least one team's blackout 
territory. Some areas may lie within the territories of two or more. As 
the accompanying map shows, teams generally have exclusive territorial 
rights only over their home cities' immediate area, but even then there 
are exceptions. For example, all of Texas, including the Houston metropolitan 
area as well as the Dallas/Fort Worth Metroplex, as well as the entire 
state of Louisiana, is within both the Astros' and Rangers' blackout areas. 
Outside of the immediate area, several teams may exercise blackout rights 
within the same territory. The entire state of Iowa, for example, is within 
the blackout areas of the Cubs, White Sox, Brewers, Twins, Cardinals, and 
Royals. Southern Nevada likewise lies within six MLB teams' blackout territories 
(Athletics, Giants, Angels, Dodgers, Padres, Diamondbacks). Areas of far 
western Kansas and the Nebraska panhandle represent an anomaly; although 
being geographically closer to Denver than Kansas City, they are included 
in the blackout territory for the Royals and not the Rockies. This is likely 
a remnant of pre-1993 territorial exclusions, since the Royals were the 
only team between Kansas City and California, except for the Astros and 
Rangers, between 1969 and 1992. A similar anomaly is that the El Paso area 
in Texas is not within the blackout territory of the Arizona Diamondbacks, 
despite El Paso being considerably closer to Phoenix than to either Texas-based 
MLB team (the New Mexico side of the El Paso area, by contrast, is within 
the D-Backs' blackout zone). This is also likely a remnant of territorial 
exclusions predating the D-Backs' 1998 entry into MLB. MLB relies on zip 
codes to determine its blackout areas. For some areas in the west side 
of Metro Phoenix, the zip code begins with 853xx. Because of this, a fan 
that resides within 10 miles of Chase Field will be blacked out of all 
online San Diego Padres games. A new contract between ESPN and Major League 
Baseball in 2012 virtually eliminated local blackouts involving the network's 
Monday and Wednesday night games, allowing ESPN coverage to co-exist with 
that of the local broadcasters in home markets.[1] The agreement took effect 
at the start of the 2014 season.[2] The Toronto Blue Jays' blackout territory 
includes all of Canada. However, they must share British Columbia and Alberta 
with the Seattle Mariners, Saskatchewan and Manitoba with the Minnesota 
Twins, and the Maritimes with the Boston Red Sox. In the past, the province 
of Quebec was not included in Toronto's territory, as it belonged to the 
Montreal Expos exclusively. Toronto and Montreal shared all territory outside 
of Ontario and Quebec. Toronto Blue Jays games are aired on Sportsnet in 
Canada. Also, Blue Jays games broadcast nationally over-the-air on the 
Canadian Broadcast Corporation have occasionally been subject to local 
blackout on CBET-TV, near Detroit. Consumer devices that enable television 
subscribers to transmit their home television feed outside their host area 
to a remote location over the Internet, a practice called placeshifting, 
have drawn the ire of MLB. MLB's position is that subscribers who wish 
to watch MLB telecasts while traveling either settle for the local telecasts 
available or subscribe to MLB's own broadcasts for an additional fee. Consumer 
advocates insist the practice is legal, since the remoted content is already 
purchased and is merely placeshifted by the subscriber; they claim MLB 
is asking fans to pay twice for the same content. MLB counters that travelers 
utilizing placeshifting technology are undercutting the blackout rights 
MLB grants to local and national broadcasters, as well as MLB's own internet 
service.[citation needed] In 2009, MLB launched MLB Network on basic cable 
similar to the NFL Network. As part of the new network, MLB has told owners 
to reduce their blackouts due to outrage amongst fans and letters pouring 
into MLB's offices. In particular, MLB is looking to address the availability 
of regional sports networks outside teams' immediate home markets. Ostensibly, 
if teams/channels are not available in certain locations, teams could lose 
their claims to such areas and coverage would be replaced by the MLB-controlled 
Extra Innings service.[citation needed] In MLB, there are no radio blackouts, 
although ESPN Radio has exclusive rights to the World Series and only the 
flagship stations of the two participating ballclubs can originate coverage, 
though their broadcasts are also available on XM Satellite Radio as well 
as the subscription Gameday Audio package on MLB.com. All other network 
affiliates of the two clubs must carry the ESPN Radio feed, and they may 
not even be able to do so if they compete with an ESPN Radio affiliate 
in the same market. Additionally, the two flagships must broadcast ESPN 
Radio national commercials during their game coverage (though they can 
run live commercial reads for local sponsors during broadcasts and sell 
ads during typically extended pre/post-game shows). Additionally, radio 
stations (including flagships) may not include any MLB games in the live 
Internet streams of their station programming. (MLB makes its own streams 
of the team networks available for a fee.) Some stations will replace the 
game with a recorded message explaining why the game cannot be heard on 
their stream. Others will simply stream the station's regularly scheduled 
