Major League Baseball on TBS (also sometimes referred to as Sunday MLB 
on TBS during the regular season) is a presentation of regular season and 
postseason Major League Baseball game telecasts that air on the American 
cable and satellite network TBS. The games are produced by Turner Sports, 
the sports division of the Turner Broadcasting System subsidiary of Time 
Warner. Atlanta Braves baseball games had been a local staple on Atlanta 
independent station WTBS (channel 17, now WPCH-TV; which, like TBS, was 
owned by Ted Turner's Turner Broadcasting System) since Turner acquired 
the team's broadcast rights in 1973, and subsequently gained national prominence 
when the station was uplinked to satellite in December 1976, becoming one 
of America's first superstations. Along with Chicago-based WGN-TV, WTBS 
was one of the few television stations that broadcast local sporting events 
to a national audience, with some even giving the Braves the title "America's 
Team".[1] On July 11, 1988, the day before the Major League Baseball All-Star 
Game from Cincinnati, TBS televised the annual All-Star Gala[2] from the 
Cincinnati Zoo. Larry King hosted the broadcast with Craig Sager and Pete 
Van Wieren handling interviews. The broadcast's big draw would've been 
the Home Run Derby, which TBS intended on taping during the afternoon, 
and later airing it in prime time during the Gala coverage. The Gala coverage 
also had some canned features such as highlights from previous All-Star 
Games, a segment on Cincinnati's baseball history, a video recap of the 
season's first half and, a slow-motion highlight montage set to "This Is 
the Time" by Styx frontman Dennis DeYoung. Unfortunately, the derby and 
a skills competition were canceled due to rain. As a result, TBS scrambled 
to try to fill nearly an hour of now-open airtime. For example, the Gatlin 
Brothers, the event's musical guests, who had already played a full concert, 
were asked to come back out and play some more. When Major League Baseball 
was realigned into three divisions each within the American and National 
Leagues in 1994,[3] TBS offered Major League Baseball US$40-$45 million 
a year for rights to another round of postseason games (presumably, matches 
from the newly created Division Series). Instead, Major League Baseball 
along with ABC and NBC formed a revenue sharing joint venture called The 
Baseball Network (which was dissolved after the 1995 season). Meanwhile, 
CBS was offering $130 million a year to renew its previous contract (a 
four-year agreement that began in 1990 and ran until 1993) before being 
shut out, as well.[4] In 2003, the Braves telecasts on TBS underwent significant 
changes for the first time in many years, reflecting an increase in the 
network's rights fee payments to Major League Baseball. In turn, national 
sponsors could fulfill their advertising commitments by purchasing ads 
on TBS, in addition to ESPN or Fox. In the process, Don Sutton and Joe 
Simpson assumed duties as lead commentators, while longtime play-by-play 
announcers Skip Caray and Pete Van Wieren had their participation on the 
broadcasts reduced. This was done in an attempt to combat criticism of 
Caray's on-air "home team" bias and to market its baseball coverage to 
fans of MLB teams other than the Braves. Meanwhile, the brand Braves Baseball 
on TBS was replaced by Major League Baseball on TBS. The move was strongly 
criticized by Braves fans, Atlanta area media outlets and Braves manager 
Bobby Cox.[5] Over 90% of Braves fans who voted in an online poll conducted 
by the Atlanta Journal-Constitution preferred Caray and Van Wieren to the 
more neutral broadcasts.[6] The move backfired, and ratings for the TBS 
broadcasts declined sharply. After that year's All-Star break, TBS brought 
back Caray and Van Wieren to work with the two analysts, while broadcasts 
reverted to the Braves Baseball on TBS brand the following year.[citation 
needed] On July 11, 2006, TBS signed an agreement with Major League Baseball 
which earned the network exclusive rights to all Division Series playoff 
games, one of the League Championship Series, as well as rights to the 
All-Star Selection Show held in late June or early July, from 2007 to 2013. 
A national Sunday afternoon baseball package was also planned starting 
with the 2008 season. As a part of the deal, the Turner Broadcasting System 
management decided to relegate Braves game telecasts to air locally within 
the Atlanta market. On October 1, 2007, the Turner Broadcasting System 
severed the ties between WTBS and the TBS cable channel, converting the 
Atlanta station into an in-market independent station that assumed the 
call letters WPCH-TV, branding on-air as "Peachtree TV". Along with this, 
Comcast and other cable providers within the Atlanta market began carrying 
the national TBS feed for the first time. WPCH-TV continued to air Braves 
games, but they were only broadcast within the team's designated market 
area and throughout Canada; in the latter case, the Canadian Radio-television 
and Telecommunications Commission never allowed the TBS cable feed to be 
eligible for carriage on Canadian cable and satellite providers as a superstation, 
only giving permission for the Atlanta area signal (whose programming largely 
overlapped with the national version of the channel outside of public affairs 
and E/I-compliant programming seen only on WTBS). WPCH would lose television 
rights to the Braves after 40 years in 2013, when Fox Sports South – which 
took over production responsibilities for the games from Turner Sports 
after the Meredith Corporation, owner of Atlanta's CBS affiliate WGCL-TV 
(channel 46), assumed WPCH's operations through a local marketing agreement 
formed in 2011 – acquired the regional television rights to the station's 
45-game package beginning with the 2014 season.[7] Although the channel 
is not available in the country, TBS's game broadcasts are carried in Canada 
on Sportsnet. All games include a Spanish language play-by-play feed that 
is transmitted via the SAP audio channel. Since TBS assumed rights to the 
regular season package, several contests that have aired on the network 
have featured the Braves. On October 7, 2010, TBS carried its first Braves 
postseason game since the package began: Game 1 of the National League 
Division Series against the San Francisco Giants (a 1-0 win for the Giants). 
On the July 2, 2011 edition of the CBS Sports Spectacular, TBS's Atlanta-based 
Major League Baseball studio crew of Matt Winer, Dennis Eckersley, Cal 
Ripken, Jr. and David Wells presented a 2011 Major League Baseball midseason 
report.[8] This was followed by MLB 2011: Down the Stretch, which aired 
on September 24.[9] CBS Sports and Turner Sports have in the past, partnered 
together to provide coverage of the NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament 
and the Winter Olympics in 1992, 1994 and 1998. On August 29, 2012, The 
New York Times reported that CBS and TBS may strike a potential alliance 
for a Major League Baseball television contract effective with the 2014 
season.[10] According to the report, CBS "would most likely want only the 
All-Star Game and World Series", an arrangement almost similar to the one 
NBC had with Major League Baseball from 1996–2000. For the 2012[11] and 
2013 seasons,[12] TBS was awarded the rights to televise both Wild Card 
Playoff games that occur the day before the Division Series games. In exchange, 
MLB Network was awarded the rights to televise two Division Series games, 
rights that previously belonged to TBS.[13] TBS retained the right to air 
any tie-breaker games to determine the team that moves onto a Wild Card 
Playoff game which are considered part of the regular season; this occurred 
in 2013 with a match between the Tampa Bay Rays and Texas Rangers. On September 
19, 2012, Sports Business Daily[15][16] reported that Major League Baseball 
would agree to separate eight-year television deals[17] with Fox Sports 
and Turner Sports[18] through the 2021 season. Fox would reportedly pay 
around $4 billion over eight years (close to $500 million per year) while 
Turner would pay around $2.8 billion over eight years (more than $300 million 
per year). Under the new deals, both Fox and TBS' coverage will essentially 
be the same as under the terms of the 2007 to 2013 contract with the major 
difference being that Fox and TBS will split coverage of the Division Series, 
which TBS had broadcast exclusively dating back to 2007. More importantly, 
Fox will carry some of the games (such as the Saturday afternoon Game of 
the Week) on its new national sports network Fox Sports 1, effective with 
the 2014 season.[19] The new deal between Major League Baseball and TBS 
was officially confirmed on October 2, 2012. Under the deal:[20][21][22] 
TBS typically begins game coverage with the pregame show MLB on Deck, followed 
about 38 minutes later by the first pitch of the first game. Each day's 
coverage ends with Inside MLB (which is formatted similarly to sister network 
TNT's Inside the NBA). TBS does not show commercial breaks after the third 
and sixth innings (and also after the ninth inning, if the game goes into 
extra innings). Instead, it airs a "Game Break" allowing the studio host 
and analysts more airtime (similar to what is done for British television 
coverage of an American sporting event). The studio shows originate from 
Studio J at Turner Sports's headquarters in Atlanta, which is also used 
for TNT's NBA coverage. During the regular season, TBS broadcasts a weekly 
game nationally on Sunday afternoons,[27] under the title Sunday MLB on 
TBS. These games are not exclusive to TBS and are blacked out in local 
markets to protect broadcast stations, national sports cable channels and 
regional sports networks that hold the local broadcast rights to the games 
(simulcasts of programming from sister network HLN air in place of the 
games in the affected areas). Under the deal, TBS can show an alternate 
game in those markets, but the network has elected not to do so thus far. 
Also, despite initial reports that TBS would carry games on Memorial Day, 
Independence Day and Labor Day, these holiday games are not part of the 
contract. For many years, games on these holidays were shown on ESPN, but 
that network has discontinued them (with the occasional exception of when 
they fall into the regular Sunday/Monday/Wednesday night slots) in favor 
of other live sports events. TBS released a partial schedule of its inaugural 
slate of Sunday games on February 27, 2008. More games would be added as 
the season progressed, generally two weeks before each telecast date.[28] 
TBS has the second pick of game after ESPN. Consequently, due to its non-exclusivity,[29] 
highlights of a scheduled game that aired on MLB on TBS are not shown on 
the ESPN baseball highlight show Baseball Tonight, nor are live simulcasts 
and highlights of the said game on the MLB.TV subscription service; instead 
local broadcasts of the scheduled game are shown. However, highlights of 
an MLB on TBS game did air on the MLB on Fox weekly program This Week in 
Baseball (until it was canceled in 2011), as well as MLB Tonight on the 
MLB Network. Before the postseason, TBS will air any tie-breaker games 
for divisional and one of the two wild card games. Should multiple tie-breaking 
games be played, or if multiple Division Series games are going on at the 
same time, those additional games air on TBS' sister network, TNT. However, 
games between the New York Yankees and the Boston Red Sox are subject to 
be moved to Fox.[30] From 2007–2010, when TBS aired every Division Series 
game, start times were staggered throughout the day from early afternoon 
to late primetime. The first game was usually scheduled to start at 1:07 
and the last game was usually scheduled for 9:07. If a game ran long, the 
start of the next game would be shifted to TNT (the game would move back 
to TBS during the first commercial break after the end of the earlier game, 
with an announcement from the in-studio crew to switch to TBS)For the LCS 
round, TBS would show all of the games at a start time pre-set by MLB. 
All coverage was followed by Inside MLB. This schedule was brought back 
for 2013 only, with the exception that MLB Network aired the two games 
scheduled for the early afternoon slot. With TBS only holding the rights 
to half of the postseason beginning in 2014, the network aired games at 
start times that did not conflict with Fox, ESPN, or MLB Network's coverage 
of the postseason, and airs Inside MLB following the conclusion of its 
own coverage instead of at the conclusion of all games on a given day. 
As stated earlier, TNT is TBS's outlet to air the beginning of LDS games 
in case of an overrun on TBS. When the TBS game finishes the TNT game is 
switched back to TBS. However, in 2011 and 2012, TNT aired its own slate 
of postseason Division Series games, due to MLB's desire to air less LDS 
games in the early afternoon. This was the first time TNT had ever aired 
regularly scheduled MLB games, however it used TBS's announcers and production 
crews with the only difference being the TNT logo in the scorebox replacing 
the usual TBS logo. In 2011, TNT aired Rays–Rangers Game 1, Tigers–Yankees 
Games 1 and 2, and Brewers–Diamondbacks Game 3. In 2012, TNT aired Reds–Giants 
Game 1, and A's–Tigers Games 4 and 5. TBS's coverage has been met with 
criticism[31] by some observers.[32][33][34] As with TNT's NBA playoff 
coverage, MLB playoff games on TBS are not made available to local broadcast 
television stations in the participating teams' designated market areas.[35] 
Under the previous contract, ESPN was required to make those games available 
over-the-air in these local markets. Following the Philadelphia Phillies' 
victory in the 2009 NLCS, studio host Ernie Johnson went to the podium 
to present the championship trophy. Upon announcing what a pleasure it 
was for TBS to cover the series, the Philadelphia fans responded with a 
heavy barrage of boos, to which Johnson quipped, "Why, thank you."[36] 
Fans of the Pittsburgh Pirates, which in 2013, had its first winning season 
as well as its postseason appearance since 1992, took TBS to task for not 
broadcasting the traditional pre-game player introductions, "The Star-Spangled 
Banner", or ceremonial first pitch during their coverage of the National 
League Wild Card playoff game[37] against the Cincinnati Reds. Some sports 
media critics were critical of the announcers used in the coverage as being 
more skewed towards the National League than the American League,[38] along 
with the choice of Chip Caray (who along the way, was criticized for making 
factual mistakes[39][40] during postseason broadcasts[41][42]) as the lead 
voice of the network's coverage, as he had only done Braves baseball telecasts 
during the 2007 season before TBS assumed rights to playoff coverage.[43] 
In response to such criticisms, Caray said, "It wasn't the job that I had 
when I came here in the first place. It would be like being a pinch-hitter 
or being a relief pitcher that works once every ten days. I'm better when 
I work more."[44] TBS and Caray parted ways following the 2009 playoffs. 
Ernie Johnson, Jr., Dick Stockton and Brian Anderson began handling play-by-play 
duties in his place.[45] Besides that of Caray, Dick Stockton's performance 
has in particular, been subject to criticism.[46] Stockton, for instance, 
during the 2013 NLDS (St. Louis vs. Pittsburgh) was cited as often misidentifying 
players, generally appearing confused at times, and never having hosting 
chemistry with his analyst Bob Brenly. Meanwhile, Joe Simpson, who was 
the only holdover from the Braves TBS Baseball days, has been accused of 
not really adding anything to the booth and often deferring to John Smoltz 
during their time together on the 2013 Boston–Tampa Bay series. Ernie Johnson 
Jr., meanwhile, has been accused of not playing to his strengths as a broadcaster 
in his role as TBS's lead play-by-play man.[47][48] More to the point, 
Johnson was accused of (in part because of his very conversational announcing 
style in the booth) never really seeming to be able to capture the big, 
exciting, transformational moments during his broadcast of the 2014 American 
League Wild Card Game between the Kansas City Royals and Oakland Athletics. 
For example, there was Johnson's rather subdued call of Brandon Moss’s 
second home run that gave the Oakland a 5-3 lead in the top of the 6th. 
During the bottom of the third inning of Game 5 of the 2015 National League 
Division Series between the New York Mets and Los Angeles Dodgers, TBS's 
cameras cameras caught a tense exchange between Dodgers manager Don Mattingly 
and outfielder Andre Ethier. So when TBS went to an interview conducted 
between innings by Sam Ryan in the Dodgers' dugout with Mattingly, the 
assumption was that Ryan would ask Mattingly what happened. Ryan then proceeded 
to ask the Mattingly instead, how he thought Zack Greinke was pitching, 
what he thought of the game so far.[49] Later in the broadcast, Cal Ripken, 
Jr. brought up what we had all seen when Ethier came up to bat again in 
the fifth, saying, "We’re still guessing what that argument was all about." 
In Game 2 of the aforementioned Mets-Dodgers NLDS, Ripken was quick to 
categorize Chase Utley's slide into Mets shortstop, Rubén Tejada (which 
broke Tejada's leg) as a clean play, "a little late,"[50] and nothing more 
than "competitive baseball." Ironically, Ripken's whole career was built 
on playing more consecutive games than anybody else in baseball history. 
Therefore, the whole streak that would’ve more than likely, been vaporized 
had anyone slid into him that way. TBS was unable to air most of the first 
inning of Game 6 of the 2008 American League Championship Series, airing 
a rerun of The Steve Harvey Show (which TBS held rights to at the time) 
in its place. TBS began airing the game just prior to the last out in the 
bottom of the first, with announcer Chip Caray apologizing to viewers for 
"technical difficulties." TBS acknowledged there was a problem with one 
of the routers used in the broadcast transmission of the relay of the telecast 
from Atlanta.[51][52] During the network's coverage of Game 1 of the 2011 
American League Division Series between the Texas Rangers and Tampa Bay 
Rays, TBS was alleged to have featured doctored headlines with incorrect 
attributions.[53] On October 1, during the middle of an at-bat during Game 
1 of the 2011 ALDS between the New York Yankees and Detroit Tigers, TBS 
suddenly cut to an ALDS game between the Tampa Bay Rays and the Texas Rangers, 
which was airing on TNT, for about 14 seconds.[54] Moments later (as TBS 
was coming out of a replay and showing the Tigers' dugout), cameras missed 
Yankees right fielder Nick Swisher making a diving catch (instead showing 
Yankees pitcher Iván Nova walking off the mound and pumping his fist). 
TBS (in particular, throughout their coverage of the 2011 postseason) has 
also been criticized for placing the center-field camera precisely in the 
center. Therefore, every time a pitcher began his windup, his head would 
block the view of home plate.[55] During the 2012 American League playoffs, 
TBS was criticized for its graphics and game preview packages. At the start 
of its coverage of the American League Wild Card Game between the Baltimore 
Orioles and Texas Rangers, a graphical snafu resulted in Cal Ripken, Jr., 
who was calling the game, being credited as "Carl Ripken, Jr.".[56][57] 
During Game 1 of the American League Championship Series between the New 
York Yankees and Detroit Tigers, TBS showed a graphic depicting players 
who played in the postseason before the age of 24 and after the age of 
40. In the graphic, Willie Mays's name was misspelled as "Willie Mayes".[58] 
During their coverage of 2014 AL Wild Card Game, TBS put a graphic that 
incorrectly said that Oakland manager Bob Melvin was in his fourth straight 
playoff appearance, but this was only his third straight (2012, 2013 and 
2014). Throughout the evening, TBS's broadcast was cited in not having 
enough adequate camera angles[59] for replays that provided value to viewers.[60] 
As opposed to productions that bring extra resources and cameras to playoff 
games, TBS's broadcast of this particular game was cited as feeling more 
like a weekly or regional telecast. That was arguably manifested in Kansas 
City Royals legend George Brett being forced into a "Very Funny" promo.[61] 
During the top of the third inning of Game 3 of the 2016 American League 
Division Series between the Toronto Blue Jays and Texas Rangers, TBS's 
Matt Winer was doing a live interview[62] with Texas third base coach Tony 
Beasley, when Rangers shortstop Elvis Andrus hit a home run. Winer had 
to cut off Beasley during the interview to tell the audience that Andrus 
got “a double”, before then realizing it was a home run. When Andrus finally 
rounded third base, Winer said, “Excuse me, that’s not a double; that’s 
a home run.” As a direct result of all of this, there wasn't full screen 
of the Andrus homer, nor was there a proper play-by-play of the home run. 
Before TBS gained rights to broadcast MLB postseason games in 2007, the 
network used a score bug on the top left-hand corner of the screen for 
its Braves telecasts. It was upgraded midway through the 2004 season and 
used through 2007. The on-screen score graphic during this period[63] covered 
the entire top of the screen, unlike the Braves TBS Baseball graphic, which 
only took up the left half of the top. The look is almost identical to 
that used during Fox's baseball coverage,[63] except that the illustration 
of the basepaths is near the left side of the screen instead of flushed 
on the right. The batting order starting lineup used beginning in 2008 
resembles that of a cellphone. There is also a pitch tracker that can only 
be seen on the network's high-definition feed.[64] With the start of the 
2011 postseason, TBS planned to introduce the following[65] TBS's standard 
definition feed now airs a letterboxed version of the native HD feed during 
game broadcasts to match Fox's default widescreen SD presentation, allowing 
the right side pitch tracking graphic to be seen by those viewing the SD 
