Because inclusion in the Major League Baseball postseason is based upon 
the teams' regular-season records, procedures exist to break ties between 
teams. One-game tiebreakers are played between teams tied for a division 
championship or a league's second wildcard berth. These games are to be 
played the day after the season is scheduled to end. Home-field advantage 
is determined using the rules listed below ("Breaking Ties Without Playoff 
Games"). From the implementation of the wildcard in 1994 to the end of 
the 2011 season, a different rule was in place. Two teams tied for a division 
did not play a tiebreaker if their records were better than all non-division 
winners in their league. Instead, such a tie was broken using the rules 
listed below ("Breaking Ties Without Playoff Games"). This scenario happened 
in the 2001 Major League Baseball season when the Houston Astros and St. 
Louis Cardinals tied for first place in the National League Central. The 
Astros were awarded the division title by virtue of a better head-to-head 
record against the Cardinals, while St. Louis received the wildcard berth. 
With, however, the adoption of a second wildcard berth and a wildcard game 
beginning in the 2012 season, the non-division winner with the best record 
in the league faces possible elimination on the first day of the postseason. 
As a result, the tie-breaking rules were changed so that two teams tied 
for a division championship must play a tie- breaking game even if both 
teams have already qualified for the postseason. The team losing the tie-breaking 
game will now qualify for a wildcard berth only if its regular-season record 
is among the league's two best records for non-division-winners. If that 
team is tied for the second wild-card spot, a second tie-breaking game 
would then be played. If, on the other hand, two teams are tied for the 
first wildcard slot, no tie-breaking game is played. Rather, the two teams 
simply play against each other in the wildcard game, with home-field advantage 
awarded using tie-breaking rules described in the next section. If two 
champions from separate divisions have the same record, the tiebreaking 
procedure listed above is used to determine postseason seeding. No additional 
games are played. Tied teams are designated as A, B, C, and D. Choice for 
one of these designations is first given to the team winning the tie-breakers 
(listed below). While A is usually the "best" designation, there are some 
scenarios where C has a different path to the postseason. If a division 
title is up for grabs, then those divisional teams will select from the 
first designations (A, B,...). On Day 1, A will host B and C will host 
D (if there is no fourth team, C will be considered to have won this game). 
Games on Day 2 may occur as follows: The order in which teams pick their 
designations (A, B, C, D) will be determined by the following 5-step tie-breaking 
system. If there is a tie for both wild card and division title spots, 
then the first designations will match teams competing for their division 
title. If at any given step some, but not all, teams remain tied, then 
