Major League Baseball on Comcast SportsNet refers to Major League Baseball 
television coverage on the chain of Comcast SportsNet regional networks. 
Giants' telecasts are split between KNTV (over-the-air) and Comcast SportsNet 
Bay Area (cable). Jon Miller regularly calls the action on KNTV (on September 
4, 2010, Miller made his first appearance with CSN Bay Area), while the 
announcing team for CSN telecasts is Mike Krukow and Duane Kuiper, affectionately 
known as "Kruk and Kuip" (pronounced "Kruke" and "Kype"). KNTV's broadcast 
contract with the Giants began in 2008, one year after the team and KTVU 
mostly ended a relationship that dated to 1958, the team's first year in 
the Bay Area. (As a FOX affiliate, KTVU continues to air Giants games that 
are part of the Major League Baseball on Fox package; Several Giants games 
a year are also part of the ESPN and TBS packages.).[1] CSN Chicago was 
created in 2004. It is jointly owned by Comcast subsidiary NBCUniversal 
(20%), the family of J. Joseph Ricketts (owner of the Cubs, 20%), Jerry 
Reinsdorf (owner of both the Bulls and the White Sox, giving him a 40% 
stake), and Rocky Wirtz (owner of the Chicago Blackhawks, 20%). The channel 
airs a majority of games for those four teams. It also carries games for 
the AFL Chicago Rush, Chicago Fire S.C., and NIU Huskies football. Although 
WCIU-TV and WGN-TV carry many Cubs, White Sox, Blackhawks and Bulls games, 
CSN Chicago was created so the teams mentioned could have editorial control 
over their broadcasts. Previously, these teams' cable games were produced 
by FSN Chicago. However, with the creation of CSN Chicago, all of Chicago's 
major professional teams dropped their agreements with FSN Chicago, though 
that channel limped along for another two years until going defunct in 
2006. All games of the major Chicago sports teams on CSN Chicago are broadcast 
in high definition. Cubs telecasts are locally aired on three different 
outlets: Over broadcast television via the WGN television outlets (both 
the local station on Channel 9 and the superstation nationally, produced 
through the station's WGN Sports department), Weigel Broadcasting's WCIU-TV 
(Channel 26.1) and on cable television over CSN Chicago (of which the Ricketts 
family owns a 20% interest), with some games, mainly on Wednesday evenings, 
airing over the supplemental CSN+ channel. WCIU came into the fold in the 
early 2000s due to demands by The WB Television Network for WGN to devote 
more time to the network's programming, and later on the same has been 
expected by The CW, though WGN still does push back CW primetime programming 
to accommodate game broadcasts. Len Kasper is the play-by-play announcer, 
and Bob Brenly, a former major league catcher and Arizona Diamondbacks 
manager, is the color commentator for the games. WGN also produces the 
games shown on WCIU; for those games, the score bug changes the "WGN" logo 
to "WGN Sports on The U" (previously "CubsNet"). WCIU games additionally 
air over MyNetworkTV affiliate WMYS-LD (Channel 69) in the South Bend, 
Indiana market. WGN and CSN Chicago generally show an even number of Cubs 
games, while WCIU averages about 8 games per season. In 2009, the Chicago 
Cubs expressed interest in creating their own regional cable network. Crane 
Kenney, the Cubs' president, said that a regional network owned by the 
Cubs would create additional revenue streams. The hope was that this would 
be similar to other successful regional sports networks such as the YES 
Network and NESN. The only difference would be that the Cubs could not 
immediately broadcast Cubs games due to the existing contracts and/or ownership 
stakes in CSN Chicago, WGN-TV and WCIU-TV. According to Kenney, the new 
Cubs network would be like the MLB Network, but showing Cubs-only programming. 
Classic Cubs games from the past could be scheduled as well as in-depth 
specials. Live telecasts of the minor league affiliate Iowa Cubs games 
were also being considered (when there are no Cubs games scheduled or available 
due to contract agreements).[2] Television broadcasts are split three ways: 
WGN (both the local feed and WGN America), WCIU-TV (a local independent 
station) and Comcast SportsNet Chicago. The announcers are the same wherever 
the game is televised: Ken "The Hawk" Harrelson on play-by-play and Steve 
Stone on color. Occasionally, well-known former White Sox players such 
as "Black Jack" McDowell fill in as substitutes in the broadcast booth. 
Since 1990, Ken "Hawk" Harrelson has done play-by-play commentary for the 
White Sox TV broadcasts. As of 2012, television coverage is exclusively 
on Comcast SportsNet California. Some A's games air on an alternate feed 
of CSN, called CSN Plus, if the main channel shows a Sacramento Kings game 
at the same time. Although the network was originally aimed at the Northern 
California region, the network began to expand as a complement to their 
Bay Area station, beginning with a re-branding to Comcast SportsNet California 
in September 2008, and becoming the official broadcaster of the Oakland 
Athletics (who were originally served by CSN Bay Area in addition to the 
San Francisco Giants) for the 2009 MLB season, broadcasting an increased 
regular season of 145 regular season games (an increase of 37 from in 2008)[3] 
On TV, Glen Kuiper covers play-by-play, and Ray Fosse provides color commentary. 
Fosse also does color commentary on the radio when the A's are not on TV, 
or the game is on Fox or ESPN. Fosse also does play by play on the radio 
during Spring training games. It is the exclusive home of the NBA's Houston 
Rockets beginning with the 2012–13 NBA season and the MLB's Houston Astros 
beginning in the 2013 MLB season [4] and will be majority owned by the 
teams (Astros at 46.384% and Rockets at 30.923%, with NBCUniversal owning 
the other 22.693%).[5] The initial idea of a team-owned regional sports 
network was first proposed in 1999. It was former Rockets president George 
Postolos, who floated the idea with Fox, who passed on the offer. The Rockets 
then teamed up with the Astros in 2003 to jointly launch an RSN. The first 
order of business was to sever ties with Fox Sports Houston, which led 
to a 20-month court battle. The settlement with Fox led to a new deal with 
the network valued at $600 million over 10–15 years. However, this contract 
contained a clause allowing the teams to bail on the contract and negotiate 
with other networks starting in late 2009. The Astros/Rockets group held 
talks with Comcast, DirecTV, and AT&T; but no carriage contracts for any 
of those providers have been officially announced. Continuation of the 
Astros and Rockets broadcasts on Fox Sports Houston was on the table as 
the network offered $1.2 billion over 10 years. However, it was ownership 
in a regional sports network that the two teams wanted. This led to the 
teams agreeing to a $1 billion contract with Comcast, which included a 
77.307% ownership in the network.[5] As of 2014, the Phillies' television 
stations are Comcast SportsNet (CSN)[6] and WCAU-TV (channel 10) with some 
early season games shown on Comcast Network (formerly known as CN8) when 
there are conflicts on CSN with 76ers and Flyers games. CSN produces the 
games shown on the above-mentioned stations. Scott Franzke and Jim Jackson 
provide play-by-play on the radio, with Larry Andersen as the color commentator. 
Tom McCarthy calls play-by-play for the television broadcasts, with Chris 
Wheeler and Gary Matthews providing color commentary. Phillies games used 
to be unavailable on the satellite version of MLB Extra Innings. Beginning 
in 2007, both the cable and satellite version of MLB Extra Innings began 
to use the CSN Philadelphia feed for some games and in 2008, when MLB Extra 
Innings began showing both feeds of most games, all Phillies games shown 
on CSN Philadelphia became available to all subscribers. In 2010, Phillies 
games on WPHL (which are produced by CSN Philadelphia) were also shown 
on Extra Innings. Residents in the Philadelphia area cannot view these 
games due to blackout restrictions. SNY was created in an effort for the 
New York Mets to better leverage their broadcasting rights, which were 
previously held by Cablevision on their MSG Network and FSN New York networks. 
From 1998 to 2002, Cablevision had a monopoly on all local professional 
sports franchises in the New York City market, participating in many unfair 
business practices like moving games to their MSG Metro Channels with limited 
distribution. In 2002, the New York Yankees and New Jersey Nets broke the 
monopoly by starting the YES Network for their games, leaving the Mets 
in the Cablevision fold until their contract expired in 2005. As of the 
2011 season the Mets received $68 million in rights from the SportsNet 
New York channel, which they own two-thirds of.[7] SNY carries at least 
120 Mets games per season (with the remainder airing on WPIX, FOX, TBS, 
or ESPN). Gregg Picker produces the games and Bill Webb, who directs the 
World Series and the All-Star Game for FOX, is the director for Mets broadcasts 
