Major League Baseball games not broadcast exclusively by its media partners 
are televised by regional sports networks, which present sports programming 
of interest to their respective region. Most MLB broadcasters are members 
of chains such as Comcast SportsNet, Fox Sports Networks, and Root Sports, 
although several teams are broadcast by regional networks that are independent 
of these chains. Some teams own partial or majority stakes in their regional 
broadcaster. Regionally broadcast MLB games are subject to blackouts; games 
from outside of a viewer's designated market are blacked out to protect 
the local team. When the Montreal Expos were relocated to Washington, D.C. 
in 2004, the issue arose regarding television rights for the new franchise. 
Since at least 1981, Major League Baseball had designated the Baltimore 
Orioles television territory to extend from Harrisburg, Pennsylvania to 
Charlotte, North Carolina. The Orioles agreed to share its territory with 
the Nationals in return for the ability to present the Nationals games 
on the Orioles television network, the Mid-Atlantic Sports Network. The 
Orioles have a 90 percent stake in MASN and MLB paid the Orioles $75 million 
for 10 percent of the regional sports network. When the Lerner family bought 
the Nationals in July 2006 they became part owners in MASN. Over the next 
23 years, the Washington Nationals’ stake in the network will increase 
to 33 percent. Under the current arrangement, MASN paid the Nationals $20 
million to broadcast their games in 2005. Boston Red Sox baseball coverage 
began in 1984 on the New England Sports Network, airing mostly road games 
on the newly formed pay cable channel. Former Sox second baseman Kent Derdivanis 
served as the play-by-play announcer and Mike Andrews provided color commentary. 
NESN periodically sent guest color commentators to the booth, with the 
likes of Rico Petrocelli, Bill Monbouquette, and Dick Radatz. The in-studio 
host was a young man just out of Syracuse University named Sean McDonough. 
Fast-forwarding 24 years later, NESN now carries full coverage (minus some 
nationally broadcast games on FOX and ESPN) of Red Sox games as well as 
in-depth pre- and post-game shows. Unlike previous seasons where it split 
coverage with over-the-air stations, it now broadcasts all games not on 
national television, using the slogan "One Nation, One Network". In 2006, 
it became the first network to broadcast all its Major League Baseball 
team's games in High Definition, available to cable providers throughout 
New England, DirecTV, AT&T U-Verse (in CT) and Verizon FIOS (in MA). Dish 
Network only provides NESN in HD during live Red Sox, Boston Bruins, Hartford 
Colonials (UFL), as of 2010, and College Hockey games, most notably The 
Beanpot (Ice Hockey) Tournament. In October 2004, FSN Chicago lost broadcast 
rights to all of the professional sports teams in the Chicago area when 
the owners of the Bulls, White Sox, Blackhawks, and Cubs decided to end 
their agreement with the network and partnered with Comcast to form Comcast 
SportsNet Chicago. This led to a number of cable/satellite providers dropping 
the network. With the end of local pro sports coverage, FSN Chicago became 
mostly a feeder channel of the national network's entire schedule, some 
minor local and semi-pro teams, Midwestern outdoors programs, and sports 
rights and games from other college conferences of little interest to Chicago 
area viewers. In 2005, Cablevision bought all of FSN Chicago when NewsCorp 
swapped assets with the cable company. SportsTime Ohio is owned by the 
Dolan family, which owns the Indians team. It is operated as a separate 
business venture. It can be compared to the New York Yankees' YES Network, 
as both were started primarily to broadcast each team's games, however 
they differ in that YES is owned by a holding company that also owns the 
Yankees, whereas STO is a venture separate from the Indians that is directly 
owned by Larry Dolan, Cleveland Indians owner. Thirty minutes before each 
Indians Game, STO airs "Indians on Deck," a pre-game show hosted by Al 
Pawlowski. It features highlights from the previous game, a preview of 
the upcoming game, and news around baseball. The commentators during the 
game are Matt Underwood, Rick Manning, and Jim Donovan (WKYC games only). 
All home games on STO and all games on WKYC are in High Definition. After 
the game, there is a postgame show recapping the game and featuring an 
interview with Indians manager, Manny Acta. PASS Sports was started by 
Tom Monaghan in 1984, who at the time also owned the Detroit Tigers. In 
1992, Monaghan sold the Tigers to Mike Ilitch and PASS was sold to Post-Newsweek 
Stations and merged with the Post's Detroit television station WDIV (Detroit's 
NBC affiliate). Following the purchase, PASS moved its studios and offices 
from Ann Arbor, MI to WDIV's in Detroit. PASS became available on basic 
cable, (under Monaghan it was a premium cable network). Post-Newsweek made 
the station 24-hours, (under Monaghan it only airing in the evening and 
on weekends). Fox Sports Detroit was launched as a competitor to PASS in 
1996. After a surprise bid in 1996 to pick up the rights to the Detroit 
Pistons, Fox Sports Detroit began planning to launch their network two 
years later. When Detroit Red Wings and Detroit Tigers rights were up for 
bid, Fox Sports Detroit decided to accelerate their launch date by bidding 
and winning the rights to the Red Wings beginning with the 1997-98 season 
and the Tigers beginning in 1998. The Washington Post Company, the parent 
company of Post-Newsweek Stations sold the remaining year (1998) of the 
Tigers, Pistons contracts and the contract of broadcaster John Keating 
to Fox Sports Detroit. Fox Sports Detroit is now the exclusive local home 
of the Detroit Tigers. Home Sports Entertainment was home of the Houston 
Astros from its inception in 1983 until the mid-1990s, when the network 
became part of the Prime Sports Networks. Prime Sports Southwest lasted 
only two years before its parent company was purchased by News Corporation 
and renamed Fox Sports Southwest. In 2005, a sub-feed of Fox Sports Southwest 
was formed, called Fox Sports Houston, which focused on Houston-based teams 
including the Astros. In January 2009, Fox Sports Houston broke away from 
its parent network and became a stand-alone network, however that network 
became defunct when the Astros and Rockets teams purchased a majority ownership 
in the new regional sports network Comcast SportsNet Houston, and moved 
their programming there where they remain today. Sports Time was a regional 
sports network in the United States. It was owned by Anheuser-Busch and 
was launched on April 2, 1984. The new network was a way for Anheuser-Busch 
to show additional games of the St. Louis Cardinals, the Major League Baseball 
team it owned at the time. Games of the Cincinnati Reds and Kansas City 
Royals baseball teams, the St. Louis Blues of the National Hockey League, 
and various college sports teams also aired on the network. Sports Time 
showed Reggie Jackson's 500th career home run on September 17, 1984. The 
Royals were playing the California Angels in Anaheim, California that night. 
After a season of obvious frustration, Anheuser-Busch pulled the plug on 
Sports Time at the end of March 1985. Today, the Cardinals and Reds are 
shown on Fox Sports Net in their respective regions, Midwest and Ohio. 
Beginning with the 2008 season, Fox Sports Kansas City will show most Royals 
games. For the first season, 140 games are scheduled to be aired. The Blues 
are also shown on FSN Midwest. In 1990, Prime Ticket became the cable television 
home of the California Angels, as well as serving as the cable home of 
the Clippers for one season (1990–91), before they moved to the now-defunct 
SportsChannel Los Angeles (originally Z Channel) the following season. 
NOW, the Dodgers games are shown on Prime Ticket, and Angels games are 
shown on Fox Sports West. One other local network showing the Angels games 
is the over-the-air MY 13 Los Angeles network, or KCOP-TV Los Angeles. 
The Minnesota Twins baseball team launched Victory Sports One as a cable 
and satellite television regional sports network in October 2003. Victory 
Sports, of course, became the exclusive TV home of Twins games; in addition, 
it planned coverage of various Minnesota college and high school games. 
The channel also simulcast ESPNEWS. The Twins opted to retain the local 
broadcast rights for game broadcasts after the 2003 season, in order to 
carry the games on their own network, after carriage for many years on 
Midwest Sports Channel (now known as FSN North). The model for the plan 
was the success of the New York Yankees' YES Network. However Victory Sports 
was unable to obtain carriage from the primary cable television providers 
in the Twin Cities, the rest of the state of Minnesota, and the Dakotas, 
or from DirecTV or Dish Network. During the 2004 season, the Twins quickly 
re-signed with FSN North to placate viewers inconvenienced by the change. 
Between 1989 and 2001, the MSG Network was the cable home of the New York 
Yankees. MSG paid an average of $55 million a year for those rights, and 
the deal is widely credited as having started a national trend towards 
greater team coverage on regional sports networks, with more games being 
broadcast than over-the-air stations' regular programming schedules could 
usually permit. MSG also produced the Yankees radio broadcasts from 1994 
to 2001, which aired on WABC. MSG also owned the over the air broadcast 
rights to Yankee games, which they sold to long-time broadcaster WPIX from 
1989–1998 and WNYW from 1999-2001 (at the time, News Corporation owned 
part of MSG). In 2002, the Yankees left MSG to form the YES Network. From 
2002 to 2005, MSG aired games from Major League Baseball's New York Mets 
on Tuesday and Wednesday nights, games which previously aired on FSNY (MSG, 
FSNY, and WPIX each carried about 50 games a season on consistent days 
of the week). Like the Yankee deals, Cablevision also owned the broadcast 
TV rights, placing games on WWOR-TV before moving to WPIX in 1999. After 
the 2005 baseball season, Met games moved to SportsNet New York, a cable 
network partially owned by the Mets, although WPIX retained a reduced slate 
of games. Comcast and Time Warner, which generally control whatever NYC-area 
cable systems Cablevision doesn't (Time Warner controls most of Upstate 
New York as well), are the other partners. Root Sports Northwest is the 
regional carrier of the Seattle Mariners, televising their games in Washington, 
Oregon, Alaska and parts of Idaho and Montana. As the Blue Jays are the 
only MLB team in Canada, the entire country is considered the regional 
territory of the Toronto Blue Jays. Blue Jays games are broadcast by Sportsnet, 
owned by team owner Rogers Communications. Although the main Sportsnet 
service is operated as a set of regional sports networks, all games are 
broadcast nationally, and the regionalized feeds are only used for NHL 
blackouts. Under Labatt ownership, the team was broadcast by TSN, which 
was previously co-owned with the team. The network continued to sub-license 
a package of Blue Jays games from Rogers until the 2010 season, when Sportsnet 
became the exclusive broadcaster of all Blue Jays games. Both Sportsnet 
and TSN air packages of U.S. games, coming from other regional sports networks 
and ESPN respectively. TVA Sports provides French-language coverage of 
selected games. In addition, in the past some Blue Jays games were televised 
nationally on Canadian over-the-air networks, namely CBC and CTV. During 
their existence, Blue Jays games were sometimes blacked out in Quebec to 
protect the Montreal Expos. Some over-the-air games were blacked out in 
Windsor to protect the Detroit Tigers. Chicago Cubs games are split between 
three broadcasters; Comcast SportsNet Chicago (owned by a consortium of 
NBCUniversal, and the Bulls, White Sox, Blackhawks, and Cubs—and displacing 
FSN Chicago in 2004), WGN Sports (whose games are split between WGN-TV 
and WPWR-TV), and WLS-TV. Some Cubs games on WGN were seen nationally via 
sister network WGN America (formerly Superstation WGN), although this was 
discontinued as part of its transition to a general entertainment cable 
network. Games televised by WGN Sports or WLS-TV are syndicated by a network 
of affiliated stations within the team's territory. From 1993 to 1996, 
the Rockies were without a cable television affiliate. That changed, when 
FSN Rocky Mountain acquired the regional cable rights in 1997, and the 
team has aired most of its games on that network since then, sharing some 
of its games with KWGN (1997–2002) and KTVD-My 20 (2003–2008). Starting 
in 2009, FSN Rocky Mountain (now Root Sports Rocky Mountain) became the 
exclusive TV outlet for the Rockies. In January 1997, Fox Sports Net West 
2 (later renamed Fox Sports Prime Ticket, now simply called Prime Ticket) 
was formed to serve as a cable home for the Clippers, Dodgers, Ducks, and 
all other events that FSN West didn't have room for. This is after the 
December 1993 shut-down of SportsChannel Los Angeles, which left their 
home teams with only over-the-air and part-time cable coverage locally. 
From 1993 to 2005, the Marlins Television Network aired games to homes 
not only in South Florida but to other parts of Florida. The network was 
produced by the same crew that telecast Marlins games on cable television. 
When FSN Florida signed an exclusive long-term deal for Marlins baseball 
starting in the 2006 season, that signaled the end of the Marlins Television 
Network as a majority of those telecasts would air on Sun Sports. SportsNet 
New York (SNY) is a New York City-based sports cable network which airs 
in the New York metro area and all of New York state, and nationwide via 
satellite. It is owned jointly by the New York Mets, Time Warner, and Comcast. 
SNY will carry 120 Mets games during 2007 season (with the remainder airing 
on WPIX, Fox, and ESPN). Bill Webb, who directs the World Series and the 
All-Star Game for Fox, is the director for Mets broadcasts on both SNY 
and WPIX. CSN Philadelphia was the very first Comcast Sportsnet and broadcasts 
the Comcast-owned Philadelphia 76ers and Philadelphia Flyers, along with 
the Philadelphia Phillies. CSN Philadelphia debuted on October 1, 1997, 
replacing the old PRISM Network in the Philadelphia area. The Phillies 
own a minority share of the channel. CSN Philadelphia's studios and offices 
are located inside the Wells Fargo Center in Philadelphia. CSN Philadelphia 
also has a small studio inside Citizens Bank Park, which is used sporadically 
during the baseball season. In addition, Comcast owns The Comcast Network, 
which on occasion will air Phillies games in the Philadelphia metro area 
when a Flyers or 76ers game airs on CSN Philadelphia. WPHL-TV also carries 
a slate of games from each team. WPSG formerly carried Phillies games, 
but WPHL-TV took broadcasting rights in 2009. Fox Sports San Diego is the 
regional broadcaster of the Padres, having displacing previous rights holder 
4SD, a local cable channel owned by Cox Communications, in 2012.[1] Between 
1984 and 1989, the Cardinals aired 50 games a season, first on Sports Time 
(1984), then on pay-per-view on Cencom. After being off cable television 
for four seasons (1990–93), the Cardinals returned to the cable airwaves 
in 1994 through Prime Sports Midwest, which became FSN Midwest in November 
1996. The Cardinals have been on FSN Midwest since then. The Cardinals 
will again air 130 regular-season games on FSN Midwest in 2010, with the 
other 32 on either ESPN, Fox or NBC affiliate KSDK-TV 5. For many seasons, 
Joe Buck and Al Hrabosky were the commentators, but Dan McLaughlin has 
since replaced Buck, who now does MLB and NFL games for Fox-TV. When the 
Montreal Expos were relocated to Washington, D.C. in 2004, the issue arose 
regarding television rights for the new franchise. Since at least 1981, 
Major League Baseball had designated the Baltimore Orioles television territory 
to extend from Harrisburg, Pennsylvania to Charlotte, North Carolina. The 
Orioles agreed to share its territory with the Nationals in return for 
the ability to present the Nationals games on the Orioles television network, 
the Mid-Atlantic Sports Network. The Orioles have a 90 percent stake in 
MASN and MLB paid the Orioles $75 million for 10 percent of the regional 
sports network. When the Lerner family bought the Nationals in July 2006 
they became part owners in MASN. Over the next 23 years, the Washington 
Nationals’ stake in the network will increase to 33 percent. Under the 
current arrangement, MASN paid the Nationals $20 million to broadcast their 
games in 2005. For a period, the Yankees and Padres streamed their regional 
games online through subscription services, but as of the 2015 season, 
only the Toronto Blue Jays offered in-market streaming of their games to 
authenticated subscribers of the team's broadcaster within its designated 
market, via the Sportsnet Now service. Regional games were not available 
on TV Everywhere services such as Fox Sports Go or NBC Sports Live Extra, 
and in-market streaming is not available via MLB.tv, as games are blacked 
out for in-market teams.[2][3] Current commissioner Rob Manfred stated 
in an April 2015 interview with the Wall Street Journal that MLB planned 
to finalize a plan to allow in-market streaming of regional games "some 
time this year".[2] Major League Baseball and representatives of its regional 
broadcasters have attempted to negotiate how in-market streaming for U.S. 
teams would operate, including whether digital rights to regional games 
would be centralized and held by an exclusive partner, and whether local 
rightsholders would be able to distribute the telecasts through their own 
services and apps, or whether all in-market games would have to be offered 
through existing MLB apps. Providers objected to having in-market streaming 
be MLB-controlled, as they would gain access to users' credentials.[3][4] 
As of the 2016 Major League Baseball season, Fox reached a three-year deal 
to offer in-market streaming of its 15 teams to authenticated subscribers 
of the corresponding Fox Sports Networks. Fox pays a digital rights fee 
for each team, and the streams are managed by MLB Advanced Media but delivered 
