Major women's sport leagues in North America (or simply in the United States 
and in Canada) represent the top level competitions of women's team sports. 
The two most prominent women's leagues in North America (in terms of television 
and overall media coverage) are the Women's National Basketball Association 
and the National Women's Soccer League. Other women's leagues include the 
Canadian Women's Hockey League, National Pro Fastpitch, Women's Flat Track 
Derby Association, National Ringette League and different women's championships 
in American college athletics and in Canadian university athletics. As 
of 2015, the only sports that men but not women play professionally in 
the United States are football, baseball, and Ultimate Frisbee. Some individual 
sports are also popular women's sports in North America, especially in 
tennis and golf. The LPGA Tour and WTA Tour were respectively founded in 
the United States but host events around the world. Each of the leagues 
represents the highest competition in their respective sports. These major 
women's sports leagues are considered as the main platoon, not only in 
the quality of the talents, but also at the play level. The best players 
of these leagues are icons in their respective sports. Soccer stars include 
Marta, Abby Wambach and Christine Sinclair. Women’s ice hockey features 
Caroline Ouellette. Kim St-Pierre, and Angela Ruggiero, while basketball 
includes Sue Bird, Lauren Jackson, Candace Parker, and Seimone Augustus. 
Each of these major leagues have restricted income,[1] while certain major 
women's leagues can count on the financial support of their male counterparts 
(as in the WNBA’s relationship with the NBA).[2] All present a financial 
fragility in most of their franchises.[3] Several teams have collapsed 
during last decades (including several franchises in the WNBA including 
the Cleveland Rockers, Portland Fire, and Miami Sol to name a few.[4] Contrary 
to several other major women's leagues outside of North America, which 
use a system of promotion and relegation, these leagues are closed. Only 
two women’s leagues pay their players (the WNBA and the NWSL). In the WNBA, 
the maximum salary for a player with three years of experience is $51,000 
(based on 2009 figures), while that for a player with six years of experience 
is fixed at $99,500. The minimum salary for a rookie is $35,190[5] · .[6] 
In 2009, the annual average of a salary in the WPS was $32,000.[7] These 
figures tend to be are averages as many players salaries can vary (i.e. 
Marta would have received a salary of $400,000 [8] during the last three 
seasons 2009-2010-2011). Generally, all major sports leagues possess an 
amateur system for the development of young players development. Certain 
women's leagues develop links privileged with minor league amateurs of 
lower and junior levels. With the growth of women's sports at the NCAA 
and Canadian Interuniversity Sport (CIS) levels in the last decades, athletes 
are more likely to choose a university education (along with competing 
at the university level), and then proceed to compete in a top-level major 
league. The NCAA and CIS produce most of the young people grown again in 
her major feminine leagues. But since a few years, the Major leagues also 
recruit some foreign mature players at the international level . The sales 
of tickets to the supporters are left by opportunities limited with regard 
to the Major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada,.[2][9] 
The attendances are smaller in the women's sports Leagues. Record attendances 
are dominated by the WNBA and the WPS: Only the WNBA[15] and the NWSL[16] 
have television contract to broadcast regularly their matches of season 
regular.[17] Although the overall amount of coverage is small compared 
to that received by comparable men’s sports, some women’s sports have received 
mainstream coverage with various degrees of success.[18] Since 2003, ESPN 
has aired all 63 games of the National Collegiate Athletic Association 
(NCAA) women’s basketball tournament; in addition, the 2004 championship 
game was the second-most viewed basketball game—men or women, college or 
professional—in the network’s history. Perhaps the most famous example 
of successful women’s sports programming and attendance is the 1999 women’s 
World Cup, an example often used to point to the potential success of mediated 
women’s sports.[18] Continued apathy by sports media toward women’s sports 
a bigger problem than first meets the eye. For other women's leagues, only 
the contests of the Championship games are broadcast on channels Fox Soccer, 
ESPN, TSN, TV Rogers and RDS. Some leagues (especially in university as 
NCAA and CIS[19]) broadcast their matches via Web (because of the offer 
much more limited by the TV networks[20]). One of the major important events 
in the development of women's basketball in the United States was Title 
IX. Title IX has proven to have had a huge impact on female collegiate 
sports. “Sports participation among college women has risen from 372 percent 
over that time, from 32,000 to more than 150,000 women[21] Professional 
women's basketball has been played in the United States. There have been 
several leagues, the most recent of which is the WNBA. The first attempt 
was the Women's Pro Basketball League. The league played three seasons 
from the fall of 1978 to the spring of 1981. The league is generally considered 
to be the first American professional women's basketball league to be founded.[22] 
The second women's professional league to be created in the United States 
was the Women's Basketball Association. The league played three seasons 
(from 1993 to 1995) with plans to play as a 12-team league in 1997 but 
disbanded before 1997 season. In 1996, two professional women's leagues 
were started in the United States: American Basketball League and WNBA. 
The American Basketball League was founded in 1996 during an increase in 
the interest in the sport following the 1996 Summer Olympics. The league 
played two full season (1996–97 and 1997–98) and started a third (1998–99) 
before it folded on December 1998. The Women's National Basketball Association 
(WNBA) is the top competition in women's basketball and, following the 
2012 suspension of Women's Professional Soccer, is the only fully professional 
women's league operating in North America. The WNBA was formed in 1996 
as the women's counterpart to the National Basketball Association, and 
league play began in 1997. The WNBA regular season runs June to September 
(Northern Hemisphere spring and summer), which is directly opposite to 
the traditional basketball season throughout the world. Most WNBA teams 
play at the same venue as their NBA counterparts. Most team names are also 
very similar to those of NBA teams in the same market, such as the Washington 
Wizards and Washington Mystics, the Minnesota Timberwolves and Minnesota 
Lynx. The league's attendance has fluctuated over the last several seasons. 
It had an average per-game attendance of 8,039 in 2009 and 7,834 in 2010.[23] 
Total attendance was 1,598,160 in 2010.[23] In 2007, the league signed 
a television deal with ESPN that would run from 2009-2016. This deal is 
the first to ever pay rights fees to women's teams. In 2009 it had a total 
television viewership of 413,000 in combined cable and broadcast television.[24] 
In 2009, 23 million American professional basketball fans, 92.3% of those 
fans were the audience of the National Basketball Association (NBA) and 
the remaining 7.7% attended WNBA games.[25] Mark J. Perry found from the 
Center for Feminist Research[26] of University of Southern California’s 
“Gender in Televised Sports” found that in 2009 the media coverage for 
the NBA was 77.8% and WNBA was 22.2%.[27] Although the coverage of NBA 
is more than three times greater than that of the WNBA, the NBA was still 
“under-reported,” the proportionality between WNBA attendance and coverage 
is greater than that of the NBA attendance and their coverage. While the 
WNBA is receiving a fair amount of media coverage, its fan base is much 
smaller than that of the NBA. The first basketball competition involving 
only collegiate women was the tournament sponsored by the Commission on 
Intercollegiate Athletics for Women (CIAW), which was held from 1969 to 
1971. The CIAW tournament was followed by the AIAW Women's Basketball Tournament, 
which was held from 1972 to 1982. The AIAW tournament was discontinued 
after the NCAA began sponsoring a women's collegiate basketball tournament 
in 1982. (In 1982, both the AIAW and NCAA sponsored competing tournaments.) 
Even before 1969, the Amateur Athletic Union (AAU) began conducting United 
States championship tournaments for women's amateur teams in 1926. On 28 
occasions, small college teams won the AAU women's basketball championship. 
Ice hockey is one of the fastest growing women's sports in the world, with 
the number of participants increasing 350 percent in the last 10 years.[28] 
In 2012, Canada has 85,827 women players[29] and United States has 65,609 
[30] The Canadian Women's Hockey League (CHWL) is an elite women's hockey 
league in Canada where top female hockey players come to train and compete.[31] 
The CWHL helped women’s professional hockey rebound from the demise of 
the National Women's Hockey League (NWHL)[32] in 2007.[33] Canadian Women's 
Hockey League (CWHL) is currently a six-team league with a team in Montreal, 
a team in Boston, three teams in the Greater Toronto area and a recent 
expansion including a team from Alberta. The CWHL exists to allow elite 
level players the opportunity to play after college and continue to work 
toward Olympic and national team success.[34] Though the leagues are considered 
professional, the players aren’t financially compensated, and many of them 
are working full-time while playing a sport they love. Apart from ice rink 
time, hotels, transportation (mostly by bus[34]), and some items covered 
by the league, players must pay for all other expenses related to playing 
at this level (equipment, training, insurance, health services, etc.), 
and all staff (coaches, general managers, communications workers) serve 
as volunteers.[35] As a result, most players and personnel have jobs outside 
of hockey.[36] In 2010, Toronto Star reported that the cost of running 
the league is about $1.7 million.[35][37] For the 2010-2011 season, income 
was $800,000.[38] The league profits are redistributed among the teams.[39] 
If the players are not paid, it is because even with financiers as large 
as Molson Coors Beer, Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment, Gatorade or 
the Scotia Bank,[40] there is not enough money to pay to them a salary 
once the acquitted operations expenses.[39] League attendance is very low 
in the regular season[41] but increases during the playoffs.[42] In March 
27, 2011, the Championship Final game drew 2,300 fans at Barrie Molson 
Centre in Barrie, Ontario.[43][44] Several CWHL matches are broadcast online[45] 
and TSN broadcasts the Clarkson Cup championship match. The National Collegiate 
Athletic Association (NCAA) currently boasts two women’s ice Hockey divisions 
from across the United States. Each Division has its own National Championship.[46] 
The NCAA first sanctioned a women's hockey championship in the 2000–01 
academic year. As of the next season of 2012–13, 35 teams will compete 
for the Division I championship. While most of the competing schools are 
members of Division I, the highest of the NCAA's three tiers, the competition 
also features some schools that are members of Divisions II and III. The 
divisions differ in the number of scholarships their members are allowed 
to offer. Division I schools are typically the largest NCAA schools, and 
can award the maximum number of scholarships allowed for each sport. Division 
II schools are typically smaller institutions that have lower scholarship 
limits. However, because the NCAA does not sponsor a Division II championship 
in women's hockey, Division II members are allowed to grant the same number 
of hockey scholarships as Division I members. Division III schools, usually 
the smallest NCAA member schools, are generally not allowed to award athletic 
scholarships, although three schools benefit from a special NCAA rule that 
allows their women's hockey programs to award athletic scholarships. Currently, 
NCAA Division I women's hockey is organized in four conferences. College 
Hockey America (CHA), a conference that now sponsors only women's hockey, 
is the smallest. It will have six teams in the 2012–13 season. CHA is currently 
the only one of the four Division I conferences whose champion is not automatically 
invited to the postseason tournament. ECAC Hockey is the largest conference, 
with 12 members. It is the only NCAA Division I hockey conference whose 
members all field men's and women's varsity teams. Hockey East features 
eight women's teams, along with 10 men's teams. The Western Collegiate 
Hockey Association (WCHA) has eight women's teams plus 12 men's teams. 
As of the most recently completed season of 2011–12, every NCAA women's 
hockey championship has been won by a WCHA team. In addition, one school 
competes as an independent, outside of a conference. While men's ice hockey 
will undergo a major conference realignment for the 2013–14 season, women's 
ice hockey will essentially be unaffected. With a 30+ game schedule, competing 
for conference and national championships, NCAA women’s hockey is a demanding 
and extremely challenging season. As of the 2011-2012 season, there were 
49 teams competing in NCAA Division III women's ice hockey. The women'ice 
hockey championship possesses 5 conferences for the Division III: Eastern 
College Athletic Conference East, Eastern College Athletic Conference West, 
Minnesota Intercollegiate Athletic Conference, New England Small College 
Athletic Conference and Northern Collegiate Hockey Association. Many NCAA 
Division III schools are smaller than NCAA Division 1 colleges, though 
size is not the determining factor. There is a mix of private colleges 
and public colleges (and universities) among the NCAA Division III schools. 
Some women student-athletes play two sports in NCAA Division III, though 
it remains a challenge to mix hockey and another sport because as a winter 
sport, hockey will still overlap with a fall or spring sport. NCAA Division 
III women's ice hockey may begin formal practice on October 15 and are 
limited to 25 games in the regular season. Canadian Interuniversity Sport 
(CIS) is the premiere league for women’s ice hockey in Canada at the University 
level. The Canadian Interuniversity Sport women's ice hockey championship 
is composed of 30 teams from four Conferences – Atlantic University Sport(AUS), 
Canada West, Ontario University Athletics (OUA) and Réseau du sport étudiant 
du Québec (RSEQ). All the Teams play between 20-30 games per year when 
you include conference competition and playoffs conference . Each Conference 
has its own schedule and determines its respective Champion. Once Conference 
Champions are declared, they advance to the CIS National Championship Tournament. 
The majority of games are played on weekends. This accommodates the academic 
responsibilities of student athletes. Women's soccer is especially developed 
in the United States, and to a lesser extent in Canada. The United States 
women's national soccer team was established in 1985, the Canada women's 
national soccer team in 1986, the first continental women league in 1995, 
then a professional league in 2001.[47] Of 900 000 in 1980, the number 
of women' players passes in 1,5 millions in 1985 then 2 millions in 1990, 
to peak in 3 millions in 1995 to fall again in 2,7 millions in 2000.[47] 
The success of the women's American national team has not translated into 
success for women's professional soccer in the United States. The WUSA 
ceased operation at the end of 2003. The National Women's Soccer League 
(NWSL) is the top level professional women's soccer league in the United 
States. It began play in spring 2013 with eight teams; four of them are 
former members of Women's Professional Soccer (WPS), which had been the 
top women's league in the United States soccer pyramid before its demise 
in 2012. Fox Sports had a deal to broadcast nine games in 2013, six in 
the regular season and the three from the playoffs.[48] ESPN2 and ESPN3 
had a similar deal for the 2014 season.[49] Women's Professional Soccer 
(WPS), currently suspended, was the top level professional women's soccer 
league in the United States.[50] It began play on March 29, 2009. The league 
was composed of seven teams for its first two seasons and fielded 6 teams 
for the 2011 season, with continued plans for future expansion. The league 
hoped to have ten teams for the 2012 season,[51] most of the new groups 
potentially coming from the western half of the country, but ultimately 
no ownership groups were ready to join in time and instead are aiming for 
the 2013 season. The beginning of the league's was marked by two things: 
low attendance (2009: 4,684, 2010: 3,588 [52] and 2011: 3,518 [53] ), problems 
with (ex-Freedom) magicJack owner Dan Borislow,.[54][55] Former WPS commissioner 
Tonya Antonucci said that unlike WUSA, which had higher expectations and 
employed a top-down model, WPS would take "a local, grass roots approach", 
and "a slow and steady growth type of approach", citing WUSA's losses of 
close to $100 million.[56] She said the new league would have a closer 
relationship with Major League Soccer, the top men's professional league 
in the United States, to cut costs on staff and facilities, and for marketing. 
The team budgets for the inaugural season was $2.5 million.[56] Fox Soccer 
Channel and Fox Sports en Español with Samuel Jacobo and Jorge Caamaño 
will air weekly Sunday night matches & the WPS All-Star Game with Fox Sports 
Net to air the semifinal and league championship contests. The national 
television contract will be in effect through the 2011 season with an option 
for 2012.[57] On January 30, 2012, the WPS announced suspension of operations 
for the 2012 season, citing several internal organization struggles as 
the primary cause.[58] Some of these issues included an ongoing legal battle 
with magicJack owner Dan Borislow and the lack of resources invested into 
the league. The WPSL Elite League was established in 2012 by the Women's 
Premier Soccer League (WPSL), responding both to an increased interest 
in professionalism by existing WPSL teams and the desire of WPS teams for 
a continuing competitive outlet. The league defines itself as semi-professional, 
but five of its eight charter teams will be fully professional. Three of 
these—the Boston Breakers, Chicago Red Stars, and Western New York Flash—previously 
played in WPS, and the Flash were the 2011 WPS champions. The W-League 
is a North American women’s soccer developmental organization.[59] It is 
an open league, giving college players the opportunity to play alongside 
established international players while maintaining their collegiate eligibility. 
The league is administered by the United Soccer Leagues system (the USL), 
which also oversees the men's USL Pro and USL Premier Development League 
The Women's Premier Soccer League (WPSL) is a national women's soccer league 
in the United States and Puerto Rico, and is on the 2nd level of women's 
soccer in the United States soccer pyramid, alongside the W-League. There 
are both "professional"/senior teams and amateur teams in the WPSL. An 
organization has to choose to be one or the other due to NCAA regulations, 
since collegiate players cannot play on "pro" teams. The WPSL started as 
the Western Division of the W-League, before breaking away to form its 
own league in 1997. The league is sanctioned by the United States Adult 
Soccer Association as an affiliate of the United States Soccer Federation 
(USSF). As of the 2012 season, 47 teams from Canadian universities are 
divided into four conferences, drawing from the four regional associations 
of the CIS: Canada West Universities Athletic Association, Ontario University 
Athletics, Réseau du sport étudiant du Québec, and Atlantic University 
Sport.[60] After interconference playoffs have been played, eight teams 
compete for the Gladys Bean Memorial Trophy, awarded to the CIS Women's 
Soccer Championship team. The regular season is eight to nine weeks long, 
depending on the conference, and, as of 2011, opens on the Labour Day weekend. 
Teams play between 13 and 16 regular season games, depending on conference 
or division, with teams typically playing a home and home series with every 
other team in their conference or division. All regular season games are 
in-conference. After the regular season, single elimination playoff games 
are held between the top teams in each conference to determine conference 
champions. “LPGA tour member Janie Balylock, softball legend Joan Joyce, 
and tennis icon Billie Jean King were the founders of the International 
Women’s Professional Softball Associations (IWPSA) in 1976.”[citation needed] 
There were ten teams in the league from Meriden, Connecticut, to San Jose, 
California; the first season the teams would play 120 games in a schedule 
season. This league ran for four years, and was closed due to lack of funds, 
and high travel and facility costs. The NCAA began the Women’s College 
World Series in 1982, which led to an increasing participation in the women’s 
sports. In 1986 and 1987 the USA Softball Women’s National Team won gold 
medals in Pan American Games. College teams also benefited because of rule 
changed in 1987 to increase the offensive game, making the sport more popular. 
Cowlens formulated a plan for the women’s professional softball league 
and in February 1989 she showed her parents, John and Sage Cowles, owners 
of Cowles Media Company the ideas who agreed to help with the financial 
make up of the league. Eight years later, 1997, the Cowles family and AT&T 
Wireless Services launched the Women’s Pro Fastpitch (WPF) and after one 
full year, two seasons of play the name was changed to WPSL. Which are 
four teams located in Eastern United States in 2000, the Akron Racers, 
Florida Wahoos, Ohio Pride and Tampa Bay FireStrix. The Women's Professional 
Softball League (WPSL) was founded in 1997 and ran until 2001, lasting 
four seasons before lack of funds, high travel costs and inadequate facilities 
led to its closure. In 2001, the “Tour of Fastpitch Champions” enabled 
the WPSL to expand. From this the league traveled around to eleven different 
cities to find different candidate for the WPSL teams to play. They played 
against All-Star teams and Canada teams; they televised many of them on 
ESPN2 or ESPN. After all these games they decided to suspend the 2002 season 
so they could get organized and have more time to find other teams to be 
able to play. Even though the league was suspended the WPSL All-Star team 
competed against the Tennessee All-Star team, as well as put together two 
clinics. Once again in 2002 the WPSL changed their name to the National 
Pro Fastpitch and the Major League Baseball partnered with them to continue 
the MBL’s efforts to connect with female athletes. National Pro Fastpitch 
(NPF) revived the league in 2004. NPF is an official development partner 
of Major League Baseball in the women’s fastpitch softball. In 2004 a new 
season began within six markets: Stockton, California; Tucson, Arizona; 
Houston, Texas; Akron, Ohio; Lowell, Massachusetts; Montclair, New Jersey. 
Having more teams allowed the league to participate in more games with 
178 league-wide games, 96 of the best female softball players in the country. 
In 2006, the Philadelphia Force, the Connecticut Brakettes, the Chicago 
Bandits, and the New England Riptide joined the league, expanding the season, 
and competition. In 2009, after winning a silver medal, several Olympians 
returned to the NPF: Monica Abbott for Washington, Jennie Finch for Chicago, 
and Cat Osterman for Rockford. The Chicago Bandits won the regular season 
championship for the second season in a row. There are now[when?] four 
teams that participate in 50 regular season games: Akron Racers, Chicago 
Bandits, Florida Pride and Tennessee Diamonds. The 2011 highlights of the 
NPF, the USSSA Florida Pride took the Ringer Cup Title with a league record 
of 30-9, and Colwes Cup was won by the Chicago Bandits. Over 500,000 household 
viewers watched this game on ESPN2. For the second year in a row the NPF 
All-Stars performed a tour playing 19 college teams across the United States. 
The NPF played against the 2009 NCAA Champions the Washington Huskies to 
a crowd of 3,000 at the home of the Seattle Mariners, in a game which ended 
in a 1-0 score.[clarification needed] This was the first fastpitch game 
to be held at a Major League Baseball stadium. The game was followed by 
a clinic for players hosted by the Huskies. 2011 also marked the Akron 
Racers' tenth university.[clarification needed][61] The first fast-pitch 
women's collegiate softball tournament was held in 1969, sponsored by the 
Amateur Softball Association, and known as the Women's College World Series. 
From 1973 to 1982, the tournament was administered by the AIAW. In 1982, 
the NCAA began to sanction its own NCAA Division I Softball Championship, 
the final round of which is now known as the Women's College World Series. 
(In 1982 the AIAW and NCAA sponsored competing tournaments). There has 
been a growing number of teams within the NCAA Division I Softball Championship 
brackets, expanded from 16 teams in 1982 all the way to 64 teams in 2003. 
There are 64 teams that are selected to participate in the NCAA Division 
I Softball Championship; 30 teams received automatic qualification to the 
tournament by winning their conference titles. The other 34 teams are selected 
at-large basis. The only way to be seeded or ranked in the brackets is 
to be in the top 16. The highest attended game was in the 2012 Woman's 
college world series in Oklahoma City with 6,804 fans watched against Alabama 
and Oklahoma, where Alabama defeated Oklahoma 5-4 in the third game. As 
well, a record of 75,960 fans walked through the doors of the entire 2012 
Women's College World Series.[62] UCLA shut out Fresno in the 1982 NCAA 
championship, 2-0, in the eight innings to take the fist NCAA tournament. 
The UCLA Bruins have the most NCAA Division I championships in softball 
history with 11 titles (1982, 1984, 1985, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1992, 1999, 
2003, 2004, and 2010). During the NCAA era, only Michigan versus UCLA in 
2005 contested a championship game that went extra innings, a 4-1 win by 
Michigan in the 10th inning in 2005.[62] UCLA and Arizona softball programs 
have met many times in the Women’s College World Series and six times in 
the national championships of the series. Of those six meetings, Arizona 
took four of them, in 1991, 1993, 1997, and 2001.[63] Arizona lost their 
opening-round game to number 15 Tennessee 8-0, but the Wildcats fought 
all the way back from the losers' bracket to make their way to the championship 
game. Beating the defending national champions and then a rematch against 
Tennessee where they won 8-0 and 5-2 to get them back to the championship 
game against UCLA Who had only played three games the whole series as well 
as breaking the home run record, eight in the series, beating Georgia’s 
record the previous year. This historical match is going to be quite interesting 
because when these two team come together the Arizona Wildcats have come 
out on top the majority of the time but with the passing of John Wooden, 
the UCLA women are looking to take the National Championship Title back 
to UCLA, and they were successful with doing so in 2010.[63] Even though 
the Huskies have only won one national championship they are still one 
of the best softball programs in the Pac-12. They have had ten Women’s 
College World Series appearances from 1996- 2010 and they finally had their 
chance and came out on top in the 2009 World Series against number 3 Florida. 
Danielle Lawrie, national player of the year and the tournament’s MVP lead 
the Huskies to this win by striking out 48 in six complete innings when 
the huskies rallied back to sweep Florida in the best-of-three NCAA Division 
I Women’s College World Series. As well as being a great Division I pitcher 
she is also apart of the Canadian Olympic team.[64] The Huskies were so 
close to upsetting the UCLA Bruins in the 1999 Women’s College World Series 
but fell short after the end of their rally in the bottom of the seventh 
inning to a 3-2 lose. During the 1999 women's college world series the 
Huskies scored 8 of its 10 runs with a two out rally.[65] The Women's Flat 
Track Derby Association (WFTDA) is an association of women's flat track 
roller derby leagues in the United States. The organization was founded 
in April 2004 as the United Leagues Coalition (ULC)[66] but was renamed 
in November 2005.,.[66][67] The WFTDA Championships are the leading competition 
for roller derby leagues. The Championships are organised by the Women's 
Flat Track Derby Association (WFTDA). They originated in 2006 as the National 
WFTDA Championship. Full WFTDA members are eligible for ranking in one 
of the association's four regions. Each region holds a tournament contested 
by its top ten leagues: the Eastern, North Central, South Central and Western 
Regional Tournaments. The top three leagues from each of these four tournaments 
qualify for the Championships. Together, the qualifying tournaments and 
Championships are termed the "Big 5".[68] Since 2008, the winner of the 
National Championships has been awarded the Hydra Trophy.[69] In January 
2009, Montreal Roller Derby became the first Canadian league admitted as 
a member. The league was WFTDA's 66th member, and was placed in the East 
region.[70] In June 2010, the WFTDA announced the first round of Apprentice 
league graduates, and formed two new regions ( Canada and Europe) outside 
of the United States (Leagues in those regions will compete in the closest 
US region until they develop more fully).[71] Ringette is a Canadian sport 
that was first introduced in 1963 at North Bay, Ontario.[72] Developed 
originally for girls, ringette is a fast-paced team sport on ice in which 
players use a straight stick to pass, carry, and shoot a rubber ring to 
score goals. For ten years, play centered in Ontario and Quebec, however 
the sport quickly spread across Canada and is now played by 50,000 girls[73] 
across Canada. The creation of the National Ringette League (NRL) is following 
the success of the 2002 Ringuette world championships at Edmonton where 
Canada took gained the golden medal. The first NRL season is thrown in 
November 2004 with 17 teams. In 2011-12 season, the NRL enters its eighth 
season with 19 teams playing in two conferences across Canada – a Western 
Conference with 6 teams and an Eastern Conference with 13 teams. In 2008, 
the budget of each NRL team of the oscillates between $15 000 and $20 000.[74] 
The teams and the league contribute to cover all the transport spending, 
accommodation and rent of arenas. The players however have to find their 
own financiers to pay their equipment and their personal spending and aen't 
paid for play.[74] The audience in the matches for several NRL teams is 
limited to some supporters' hundreds. It's possible to believe that a bigger 
mediatization of this sport engendered a better budget to pay a salary 
to the athletes. The LNR benefits from a cover broadcast thanks to a partnership 
with Webchannel SSN-Canada[75] and the championship final game is broadcast 
on Rogers TV. In 2010-11 season, new fact, a NRL Championship Tournament 
replaces the Championship qualifying rounds, this tournament takes place 
in just one city. This allows to create a media event and to hold attention. 
From March 27 till April 2, 2011, the NRL Championship Tournament takes 
place to Cambridge, Ontario. In Final game, the Edmonton WAM! triumph over 
the Cambridge Turbos[76] The NRL maintains a collaboration with the lower 
Ringette leagues as regards the development of the young girls players: 
So several teams of the NRL have affiliated development's teams Under 19 
year and Under 16 year. The Canadians Championship U16 and U19 (usually 
in April) take place in the same place as the NRL playoff tournament eliminating[77] · 
.[78] What allows the tracers of the teams NRL to identify the young talented 
players. Canadian Interuniversity Sport (CIS) is the national governing 
body for university sports, while the Canadian Colleges Athletic Association 
governs college sports. A factor which affects athletic participation levels 
in CIS member institutions is the CIS restriction that scholarships cover 
tuition only, drawing many of Canada's best student athletes to the United 
States where organizations such as the National Collegiate Athletic Association 
(NCAA) allow "full ride" scholarships which include tuition, books, housing, 
