Major League Baseball on CBS Radio was the de facto title for the CBS Radio 
Network's coverage of Major League Baseball. Produced by CBS Radio Sports, 
the program was the official national radio broadcaster for the All-Star 
Game and the postseason (including the World Series) from 1976[1] to 1997.[2] 
CBS first covered Major League Baseball in the early days of radio, sharing 
World Series coverage with NBC beginning in 1927 and All-Star Game coverage 
beginning in 1933. Mutual joined them in 1935; the three networks continued 
to share coverage of baseball's "jewel" events through 1938, with Mutual 
gaining exclusive rights to the World Series in 1939 and the All-Star Game 
in 1942. NBC, in turn, would have exclusivity from 1957 through 1975. In 
1950, CBS Radio carried Saturday regular-season Brooklyn Dodgers games 
played at Ebbets Field, simulcasting the team's local broadcasts on WMGM 
with Red Barber and Connie Desmond announcing. The CBS simulcasts, which 
were sponsored by General Foods, were not carried in major league cities.[3] 
From 1976–1979, CBS Radio paid US$75,000 per year for rights to the World 
Series, All-Star Game, and League Championship Series. In 1985 the network 
added regular-season Saturday Game of the Week broadcasts. By 1990, CBS 
Television would get into the Major League Baseball broadcasting business 
(having last done so in 1965). This particular partnership would last through 
the 1993 season. Meanwhile, CBS Radio would pay Major League Baseball US$50 
million for 1990–1993 radio rights to the Game of the Week and Sunday Night 
Baseball as well as the All-Star Game, League Championship Series, and 
World Series. Following the 1993 season, CBS Radio signed a six-year contract 
worth US$50.5 million.[4] Following the 1994 strike and the dissolving 
of "The Baseball Network" (a planned six-year-long television joint venture 
involving ABC, NBC and Major League Baseball), the television contracts 
had to be realigned. Ultimately, Major League Baseball on CBS Radio would 
last through the 1997 season before being succeeded by Major League Baseball 
on ESPN Radio. In 1985,[5] CBS Radio started broadcasting a weekly Game 
of the Week.[6] CBS Radio usually did two games each Saturday, one on the 
afternoons and another during the evenings. Typically, CBS' markets aired 
only the afternoon broadcasts. The games covered varied from the ones NBC-TV 
were offering at the time to games outside of NBC's sight. One notable 
exception was KCBS in San Francisco, who almost always did the evening 
games. In 1994, just before the strike, KNBR carried the broadcasts in 
San Francisco and finally aired some of CBS' afternoon games. However, 
following the strike, KNBR dropped CBS' regular season broadcasts, and 
with the exception of 1995, when all playoff games were played at the same 
time, they usually only carried one or two Division Series games on days 
when there were three games played. As previously mentioned, CBS Radio 
would also eventually follow ESPN television's suit, and broadcast Sunday 
night games (something ESPN started in 1990).[7] John Rooney and Jerry 
Coleman usually called these games while Jim Hunter hosted the pregame 
show entitled Inside Pitch. CBS Radio is the largest broadcaster of local 
Major League Baseball broadcasts. Currently, six teams are on stations 
owned by the company: In addition, three teams had been on CBS-owned stations 
until the 2010–11 "hot stove" period: From 1985–1993, the two announcers 
calling the games at hand split play-by-play duties. From 1994 until the 
end of its coverage in 1997, CBS Radio used Jeff Torborg[8] and Al Downing[9] 
(as well as Rick Cerone in 1997) as color analysts paired with the play-by-play 
announcers. The Home Town Inning, traditionally featuring a visiting team 
announcer calling the top of the fifth with the home team announcer calling 
the bottom of the fifth, was featured on CBS Radio postseason games from 
1985–1986 and on regular season games from 1985–1997. Play-by-play commentators 
included: Other commentators (roughly in order of first appearance) included: 
Jim Hunter called the American League Championship Series alongside Johnny 
Bench from 1990–1992. In 1993, Hunter teamed Ernie Harwell to call the 
ALCS. And in 1995 and 1996 respectively, Hunter called the National League 
Division Series[26] and National League Championship Series alongside Jerry 
Coleman. In 1996, Hunter called the American League Division Series between 
the New York Yankees and Texas Rangers with Gary Cohen. In 1977, Bill White 
did play-by-play for the games in Los Angeles on CBS Radio while Ross Porter 
handled the play-by-play for CBS in New York. Thus, when White was doing 
stuff on ABC-TV during the 1977 World Series, it was during the home games 
in a pre/postgame role (White would eventually cover the trophy presentation 
ceremony for ABC). Likewise, Rose Porter handled White's TV role while 
in Los Angeles. From 1976–1978, Win Elliot was always in the booth either 
as a host or color man but never he did play-by-play for CBS Radio's World 
Series coverage. When CBS Radio got the contract from NBC Radio in 1976, 
they continued the old practice of having the local team announcers do 
the play-by-play for the games in the road market of that home team's broadcasters 
through 1978. Thus, Bill White got to do all three World Series involving 
the Yankees on CBS Radio from 1976–1978 and Ross Porter with the Dodgers 
in 1977–1978. In addition, CBS Radio used Marty Brennaman in 1976, when 
his Cincinnati Reds played against Bill White's New York Yankees. Marty 
Brennaman also covered the 1976 World Series for NBC-TV, while Phil Rizzuto 
did the two games in New York. 1976 by the way, was the last year NBC employed 
locals on play-by-play for World Series games. In 1979, CBS Radio, following 
the lead begun by ABC's television coverage in 1977, dropped the usage 
of the local broadcasters on play-by-play. They stopped using local announcers 
altogether when Vin Scully began doing the World Series as a CBS employee 
through 1982. (Beginning in 1981, however, participating teams' flagship 
radio stations were permitted to produce their own local World Series broadcasts 
and air them live. The affiliate stations in the teams' radio networks 
continued to be obligated to carry the CBS Radio broadcasts.) After the 
1982 season, Scully left CBS altogether to do baseball play-by-play for 
NBC-TV (a role that he had through the end of the 1989 season). In Vin 
Scully's absence, came Jack Buck, who would call the World Series for CBS 
Radio from 1983 through 1989. In 1985, KMOX, the St. Louis Cardinals' flagship 
station at the time, simulcast with CBS Radio's World Series coverage involving 
the Cardinals. That was mainly because Jack Buck had a lengthy career calling 
Cardinals games for KMOX to go along with his national work for CBS Radio. 
In 1990, Buck would move over to CBS-TV to call the World Series and Scully 
returned to CBS Radio to take his place following NBC's loss of television 
rights. Scully would continue to call the World Series on through 1997 
(CBS' last before the contract moved to ESPN Radio). Despite his long and 
illustrious career, Don Denkinger is probably best remembered for a blown 
call he made at first base in Game 6 of the 1985 World Series, played on 
October 26. The St. Louis Cardinals led the Kansas City Royals by 3 games 
to 2. The Cardinals had taken a 1-0 lead in the 8th inning on a single 
by little-used backup catcher Brian Harper after pitchers Danny Cox (of 
the Cardinals) and Charlie Leibrandt (of the Royals) had battled back and 
forth all game long. Todd Worrell came into the game for the Cardinals 
in the 9th inning, first facing Jorge Orta, the leadoff batter for the 
Royals. Orta hit a slow roller to first baseman Jack Clark, who tossed 
to Worrell covering first base. Denkinger was the umpire at first base 
and called Orta safe, even though television replays and photographs clearly 
showed that he was out by half a step. The Cardinals argued briefly,[32] 
but Denkinger refused to reverse it. The Royals went on to win Game 6 by 
the score of 2-1. Orta, leading off, swings and hits it to the right side, 
and the pitcher has to cover he is...SAFE, SAFE, SAFE, and we'll have an 
argument! Sparky, I think he was out! He had the base and he had the ball, 
man, what else is there? That's the rule isn't it? The following is a word-for-word 
transcript of Jack Buck and Sparky Anderson's commentatary during the final 
moments of Game 6 of the 1986 World Series: J: Mookie Wilson is the batter...he 
has a hit...one out of three...a switch hitter, he'll bat left. Moments 
ago, the Red Sox were one strike away. Now they're one out away. Here's 
the pitch...and a foul strike one...back into the seats and Wilson wasn't 
taking. Howard Johnson is on deck, we mentioned earlier he stayed in the 
game. S: Mookie's not bashful, he's not afraid to swing this bat. He's 
not concerned right now...he wants a base hit. J: Next pitch from Stanley 
is a ball and it's one and one...they hold against Ray Knight, he is not 
a threat to steal. The batter is Mookie Wilson, one ball one strike, two 
on, two out...way high ball two, as Stanley slipped coming of the pitching 
rubber. The on deck batter is Howard Johnson and this thing, this game 
has been at the finish line three or four times. 5-4 Boston, bottom half 
of the tenth inning, 5-4, first and third two out, and a foul puts Boston 
within a strike of the title again. It evens the count to Mookie Wilson, 
that ball in on him, two and two. S: Don't be surprised if you see his 
palmball right here. J: First and third. Tying run at third, winning run 
at first, two out, the pitch! a swing and a...foul tip, he just got a piece 
of it and that's how close Boston was to nailing it down. A foul by Mookie 
Wilson keeps him up there. two balls two strikes. The Mets have scored 
here in the tenth, they trail 5-4 trying to send us into tomorrow night. 
Here's the pitch! Swing and a foul, back and out of play and Wilson hammered 
at one outside, in the strike zone I think, stays 2-2. Mitchell the tying 
run at third, a base hit ties it for New York, a long one could win it, 
a home run would win it, the pitch! Ball three! Wild pitch! We're gonna 
be tied! The ball went off the glove of the catcher. We're 5-5 in the bottom 
of the tenth. Unbelievable, it's 5-5 and now the winning run is at second 
with two out. A breaking ball handcuffed Gedman, a breaking ball handcuffed 
the catcher and Mitchell raced home with the tying run and Mookie Wilson 
could win it here. They have a base open and Howard Johnson up next. That 
run charged to Schiraldi. The 3-2 pitch on the way, swing and a high pop 
foul going out of play. And it gives everybody a chance to collect their 
collective breath as the Mets have scored two here in the tenth after scoring 
a run in the eighth to pull it out of the bag again. S: Boy if this don't 
remind you of that California Angels-Boston series, nothing will... J: 
And a full count on Mookie Wilson, he can win it with a hit. Ray Knight 
is at second base. Here's the pitch! Swing and a foul out of play, and 
I'll tell you this folks. If the Mets win this tonight, man, there will 
be no holding them tomorrow, Dennis Boyd or no Dennis Boyd. S: They'll 
come out here looking like they're on stilts. J: It stays three and two, 
let's look ahead to the Boston eleventh inning. Evans will lead it off. 
Isn't this unbelievable. A couple of times Boston was a strike away from 
winning. You remember that little foul tip just before? What did they call 
it? Wild pitch or passed ball? S: I think they called it a wild pitch. 
J: Wild pitch. Here's the pitch to Mookie Wilson. Winning run at second. 
Ground ball to first, it is a run...an error! An error by Buckner! The 
winning run scores! The Mets win it 6 to 5 with three in the tenth! The 
ball went right through the legs of Buckner and the Mets with two men out 
and nobody on have scored three times to bring about a seventh game, which 
will be played here tomorrow night. Folks, it was unbelievable. An error, 
right through the legs of Buckner. There were two on, nobody out, a single 
by Carter, a single by Mitchell, a single by Ray Knight, a wild pitch, 
an error by Buckner. Three in the ninth for the Mets. They've won the game 
6-5 and we shall play here... tomorrow night! Well, open up the history 
book, folks, we've got an entry for you...What do you think, Sparky? S: 
I never seen nothing like it. Here you got two out, two run lead, you figure 
Carter up, he can't even hurt you. He gets a base hit, another base hit, 
another base hit...wild pitches, ball rolls through the guys legs. I've 
never seen nothing like it, Jack. J: It will be Boyd against Darling tomorrow 
night. S: Yogi Berra is the greatest human being who ever lived. He said, 
it's not over 'til it's over. J: This game is now history and it deserves 
its own page... For CBS Radio's coverage of the 1988 World Series, Jack 
Buck provided play-by-play while Bill White served as the analyst. This 
was Buck's call of the final moments of Game 1. It begins here with Buck 
speculating on what might happen if Kirk Gibson manages to reach base: 
"... then you would run for Gibson and have Sax batting. But, we have a 
big 3-2 pitch coming here from Eckersley. Gibson swings, and a fly ball 
to deep right field! This is gonna be a home run! Unbelievable! A home 
run for Gibson! And the Dodgers have won the game, 5 to 4; I don't believe 
what I just saw!" The last sentence is often remembered and quoted by fans. 
Buck followed it with, "I don't believe what I just saw! Is this really 
happening, Bill?" Moments after Kirk Gibson's home run, Jack Buck told 
his listeners, "I've seen a lot of dramatic finishes, in a lot of sports, 
but this one might top almost every other one." On October 17, 1989, commentators 
Jack Buck, Johnny Bench and John Rooney, were on hand at San Francisco's 
Candlestick Park for Game 3 of the World Series between the San Francisco 
Giants and Oakland Athletics. At 5:04 p.m. local time, the Loma Prieta 
earthquake hit (and subsequently caused a ten-day delay for the World Series). 
Unlike ABC-Television (with Al Michaels, Jim Palmer and Tim McCarver calling 
the action on the TV side), CBS Radio was in a commercial break when the 
earthquake struck. After the earthquake hit, Jack Buck told the listening 
audience, "I must say about Johnny Bench, folks, if he moved that fast 
when he played, he would have never hit into a double play. I never saw 
anybody move that fast in my life." On October 27, 1991, Vin Scully, along 
with Johnny Bench and John Rooney, was on hand for a game considered by 
fans to be one of the most intense in the sport's history. Game 7 of the 
already exciting World Series (between the Minnesota Twins and Atlanta 
Braves) was scoreless going into the ninth inning, and an emotionally drained 
Scully said, "After eight full innings of play, Atlanta nothing, Minnesota 
nothing... I think we'll be back in just a moment." In the bottom of the 
tenth inning, Gene Larkin won the game for the Twins with a high fly-ball 
into left field (which allowed Dan Gladden to score) off Alejandro Peña. 
The following is Scully's description of the final moments of Game 7: "Peña, 
right foot on the rubber. You can taste the pressure here in the 'Dome 
as Alejandro straightens up. And the pitch to Larkin. Swung on, a high 
fly ball into left center, the run will score, the ball will bounce for 
a single, and the Minnesota Twins are the champions of the world!" During 
his CBS Radio broadcast in 1996, Vin Scully made another memorable call 
in the third inning of Game 1, when 19-year-old rookie outfielder Andruw 
Jones became the first National League player to hit two home runs in his 
