The Major League Baseball Australian Academy Program (MLBAAP) is a seven-week 
baseball development program held on the Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia 
for prospective Australian baseball players and officials. The Academy 
began in 2001 with the backing of the Australian Baseball Federation, Major 
League Baseball and the Australian Sports Commission, with the aim of improving 
the quantity and quality of young Australian baseball players. The Academy 
has included notable MLB coaches such as Rod Carew, Pat Kelly, Graeme Lloyd, 
David Nilsson, Mark Hutton and Luke Prokopec. MLBAAP has been the catalyst 
for over 140 professional player signings, boasts 2 Major league players 
among its alumni (Rich Thompson and Brad Harman) and has seen many more 
progress through the ranks of the Australia national baseball team.[1][2] 
The location of the Academy is the Palm Meadows Radisson Hotel resort, 
which includes a world-class baseball facility. Players are split into 
four teams (Roos, Wombats, Koalas and Dingos) and the program is set up 
very much like professional rookie leagues in North America. Academic staff 
from several Gold Coast state schools and the Gold Coast Institute of TAFE 
assist with tutoring and supporting the athletes, to ensure their educational 
requirements are achieved. Teaching staff are chosen on their experience 
and empathy regarding the difficult combination of balancing elite sport 
with academic excellence. Education sessions are conducted Monday to Friday, 
with an expectation that year 11 and 12 athletes set aside at least 2 hours 
additional time per Saturday and Sunday for private study. The seven-week 
program consists of at least one match a day against each other and other 
touring teams, with a break on Sunday, giving players and officials plenty 
of match practice. Between 60 and 80 players are given a scholarship from 
all states and territories of mainland Australia[3] as well as other invitees 
from countries including Taiwan, Japan, New Zealand, South Africa, Northern 
Mariana Islands, New Caledonia and Czech Republic.[4][5] The current head 
coach is national team manager Jon Deeble, who is supported by national 
team coaching staff Phil Dale, Tony Harris, Pat Kelly, Graeme Lloyd and 
Dave Nilsson. As of 2010, there are 84 Australians playing professionally 
