Major League Baseball on ABC is the de facto title of a program that televises 
Major League Baseball games on the American Broadcasting Company (ABC). 
The program has appeared in various forms[2] c. 1953-1965 (ABC Game of 
the Week), 1976–1989 (Monday Night Baseball, Thursday Night Baseball, and 
Sunday Afternoon Baseball), and 1994–1995 (Baseball Night in America). 
ABC has not televised Major League Baseball since Game 5 of the 1995 World 
Series (October 26). In 1953,[3] ABC-TV executive Edgar J. Scherick (who 
later created Wide World of Sports) broached a Saturday Game of the Week,[4] 
TV sport's first network series. At the time, ABC was labeled a "nothing 
network" that had fewer outlets than CBS or NBC. ABC also needed paid programming 
or "anything for bills" as Scherick put it. At first, ABC hesitated at 
the idea of a nationally televised regular season baseball program. ABC 
wondered how exactly the Game of the Week would reach television in the 
first place and who would notice if it did? Also, Major League Baseball 
barred the Game of the Week from airing within 50 miles of any ballpark.[5] 
Major League Baseball according to Scherick, insisted on protecting local 
coverage and didn't care about national appeal. ABC, though, did care about 
the national appeal and claimed that "most of America was still up for 
grabs." In April 1953, Edgar Scherick set out to sell teams rights but 
instead, only got the Philadelphia Athletics, Cleveland Indians,[6] and 
Chicago White Sox[7][8] to sign on.[9] These were not "national" broadcast 
contracts since they were assembled through negotiations with individual 
teams to telecast games from their home parks. It was until the Sports 
Broadcasting Act of 1961, that antitrust laws barred "pooled rights" TV 
contracts negotiated with a central league broadcasting authority. In 1953, 
ABC earned an 11.4 rating for their Game of the Week telecasts. Blacked-out 
cities had 32% of households. In the rest of the United States, 3 in 4 
TV sets in use watched Dizzy Dean[10] and Buddy Blattner[11] (or backup 
announcers Bill McColgan and Bob Finnegan) call the games for ABC. CBS 
took over the Saturday Game in 1955 (the rights were actually set up through 
the Falstaff Brewing Corporation[12]) retaining Dean/Blattner and McColgan/Finnegan 
as the announcing crews (as well as Gene Kirby, who produced the Dean/Blattner 
games and alternated with them on play-by-play) and adding Sunday coverage 
in 1957. As Edgar Scherick said, "In '53, no one wanted us. Now teams begged 
for "Game"'s cash." In 1959, ABC broadcast the best-of-three playoff series[13][14][15] 
(to decide the National League pennant) between the Milwaukee Braves and 
Los Angeles Dodgers. The cigarette company L&M was in charge of all of 
the telecasts. George Kell[16] and Bob DeLaney were the announcers. In 
1960, ABC returned to baseball broadcasting with a series of late-afternoon 
Saturday games. Jack Buck[17] and Carl Erskine[18][19] were the lead announcing 
crew for this series, which lasted one season.[20] ABC typically did three 
games a week. Two of the games were always from the Eastern or Central 
Time Zone. The late games (no doubleheaders) were usually San Francisco 
Giants[21] or Los Angeles Dodgers' home games. However, the Milwaukee Braves[22] 
used to start many of their Saturday home games late in the afternoon. 
So if the Giants and Dodgers were both the road at the same time, ABC still 
would be able to show a late game. One other note about ABC baseball coverage 
during this period. Despite temporarily losing the Game of the Week package 
in 1961, ABC still televised several games in prime time (with Jack Buck 
returning to call the action). This occurred as Roger Maris[23][24] was 
poised to tie and subsequently break Babe Ruth's regular season home run 
record of 60. As with all Major League Baseball games in those days, the 
action was totally blacked out[25] of major league markets. As a matter 
of fact, as documented in the HBO film 61*, the Maris family was welcomed 
into ABC's Kansas City, Missouri affiliate KMBC-TV so they could watch 
the in-house feed of the game, which was blacked out of Kansas City. In 
1965, ABC provided the first-ever nationwide baseball coverage with weekly 
Saturday broadcasts on a regional basis. ABC paid $5.7 million for the 
rights to the 28 Saturday/holiday Games of the Week. ABC's deal[26][27] 
covered all of the teams except the New York Yankees and Philadelphia Phillies[28] 
(who had their own television deals) and called for two regionalized games 
on Saturdays, Independence Day, and Labor Day.[29] Each Saturday, ABC broadcast 
two 2 p.m. games and one 5 p.m. game for the Pacific Time Zone. ABC blacked 
out the games in the home cities of the clubs playing those games.[30] 
Major League Baseball however, had TV deal with NBC for the All-Star Game 
and World Series. At the end of the season, ABC declined to exercise its 
$6.5 million option for 1966, citing poor ratings,[31][32] especially in 
New York. According to ABC announcer Merle Harmon's profile in Curt Smith's 
book Voices of Summer, in 1965, CBS' Yankee Game of the Week beat ABC in 
the ratings in at least Dallas and Des Moines. To make matters worse, local 
television split the big-city audience. Therefore, ABC could show the Cubs 
vs. the Cardinals in the New York market, yet the Mets would still kill 
them in terms of viewership. Harmon, Chris Schenkel, Keith Jackson,[33] 
and (on occasion) Ken Coleman[34] served as ABC's principal play-by-play 
voices for this series. Also on the network's announcing team were pregame 
host Howard Cosell and color commentators Leo Durocher, Tommy Henrich, 
Warren Spahn (who worked with Chris Schenkel on a July 17 Baltimore-Detroit 
contest), and Hall of Fame Brooklyn Dodger great Jackie Robinson (who, 
on April 17, 1965, became the first black network broadcaster for Major 
League Baseball[35]). According to ABC Sports producer Chuck Howard, "(Robinson) 
had a high, stabbing voice, great presence, and sharp mind. All he lacked 
was time." Under the initial agreement with ABC, NBC, and Major League 
Baseball (1976-1979), both networks paid $92.8 million. ABC paid $12.5 
million per year to show 16 Monday night games in 1976, 18 in the next 
three years, plus half the postseason (the League Championship Series in 
even numbered years and World Series in odd numbered years) and the All-Star 
Game in even numbered years. NBC paid $10.7 million per year to show 25 
Saturday Games of the Week and the other half of the postseason (the League 
Championship Series in odd numbered years and World Series in even numbered 
years) and the All-Star Game in odd numbered years. 1976 marked the first 
time that all LCS games were televised nationally. Major League Baseball 
media director John Lazarus said of the new arrangement between NBC and 
ABC "Ratings couldn't get more from one network so we approached another." 
NBC's Joe Garagiola wasn't very fond of the new broadcasting arrangement 
at first saying "I wished they hadn't got half the package. Still, "Game", 
half of the postseason - we got lots left." In 1976, ABC picked up the 
television rights for Monday Night Baseball games from NBC. For most of 
its time on ABC, the Monday night games were held on "dead travel days" 
when few games were scheduled. The team owners liked that arrangement as 
the national telecasts didn't compete against their stadium box offices. 
ABC on the other hand, found the arrangement far more complicated. ABC 
often had only one or two games to pick from for each telecast from a schedule 
designed by Major League Baseball. While trying to give all of the teams 
national exposure, ABC ended up with far too many games between sub .500 
clubs from small markets. Just like with Monday Night Football, ABC brought 
in the concept of the three-man-booth (originally with Bob Prince, Bob 
Uecker, and Warner Wolf as the primary crew) to their baseball telecasts. 
Said ABC Sports head Roone Arledge "It'll take something different for 
it to work - i.e. curb viewership yawns and lulls with Uecker as the real 
difference", so Arledge reportedly hoped. Prince disclosed to his broadcasting 
partner Jim Woods about his early worries about calling a network series 
for the first time. Prince for one, didn't have as much creative control 
over the broadcasts on ABC as he did calling Pittsburgh Pirates games on 
KDKA radio. On the June 7, 1976 edition of Monday Night Baseball, Prince 
returned to Pittsburgh, where he had been exiled from for over a year. 
Although Prince received a warm reception, he was confused when the next 
day when the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette read: June 28, 1976, the Detroit Tigers 
faced the New York Yankees on Monday Night Baseball, with 47,855 attending 
at Tiger Stadium and a national television audience, Tigers pitcher Mark 
"The Bird" Fidrych talked to the ball and groomed the mound, as the Tigers 
won, 5-1 in a game that lasted only 1 hour and 51 minutes. After the game, 
the crowd would not leave the park until Fidrych came out of the dugout 
to tip his cap.[36] For ABC's coverage of the 1976 All-Star Game, the team 
of Bob Prince, Bob Uecker and Warner Wolf alternated roles for the broadcast. 
For the first three innings, Prince did play-by-play with Wolf on color 
commentary and Uecker doing field interviews. For the middle innings, Uecker 
worked play-by-play with Prince on color and Wolf doing the interviews. 
For the final three innings, Wolf worked play-by-play with Uecker on color 
and Prince doing interviews. Bob Prince was gone by the fall of 1976, with 
Keith Jackson, Howard Cosell,[37][38] and guest analyst Reggie Jackson 
calling that year's American League Championship Series. (Warner Wolf, 
Al Michaels and guest analyst Tom Seaver worked the NLCS.) On the subject 
of his dismissal from ABC, Bob Prince said "I hated Houston, and ABC never 
let me be Bob Prince." Howard Cosell said of Bob Uecker that he was the 
only person in the series to have his reputation helped. Cosell, who hated 
athletes-turned-announcers, considered Uecker to being the exception. Cosell 
gloated that "The man's bigger than the game, bigger than the team, bigger 
than the league, bigger than the sport. They talk about a new commissioner, 
if I had my pick, it would be you, Bob Uecker." Uecker replied by sighing 
and telling Cosell that he wished he "had the time." Keith Jackson was 
unavailable to call Game 1 of the 1976 ALCS because he had just gotten 
finished calling an Oklahoma-Texas college football game for ABC. Thus, 
Bob Uecker filled-in for Jackson for Game 1. Uecker also took part in the 
postgame interviews for Game 5 of the 1976 ALCS, while Warner Wolf did 
an interview of George Brett in the Kansas City locker room. Still on the 
disabled list toward the end of the 1977 season, Mark Fidrych worked as 
a guest color analyst on a Monday Night Baseball telecast for ABC; he was 
subsequently criticized for his lack of preparation, as when play-by-play 
partner Al Michaels tried talking with him about Philadelphia Phillies 
player Richie Hebner and Fidrych responded, "Who's Richie Hebner?"[39] 
As an American League player, Fidrych had never had to face Hebner, who 
played in the National League. The 1977 World Series marked the first time 
that the participating teams' local announcers were not featured[40] as 
booth announcers on the network telecast of a World Series. 1977 was also 
the first year in which one announcer (in this case, ABC's Keith Jackson) 
provided all of the play-by-play for a World Series telecast. In previous 
years, the play-by-play announcers and color commentators had alternated 
roles during each game. Meanwhile, Yankees announcer Bill White and Dodgers 
announcer Ross Porter alternated between pregame/postgame duties on ABC 
and calling the games for CBS Radio. White worked the ABC telecasts for 
the games in New York (including the clubhouse trophy presentation ceremony 
after Game 6) while Porter did likewise for the games in Los Angeles. Howard 
Cosell was widely attributed with saying the famous phrase "the Bronx is 
burning". Cosell is credited with saying the quote during Game 2 of the 
1977 World Series, which took place in Yankee Stadium on October 12, 1977. 
For a couple of years, fires had routinely erupted in the South Bronx, 
mostly due to low-value property owners setting their own properties ablaze 
for insurance money. During the bottom of the first inning, an ABC aerial 
camera panned a few blocks from Yankee Stadium to a building on fire, giving 
the world a real-life view of the infamous Bronx fires. The scene became 
a defining image of New York City in the 1970s. Cosell supposedly stated, 
"There it is, ladies and gentlemen, The Bronx is burning."[41] This was 
later picked up by candidate Ronald Reagan, who then made a special trip 
to the Bronx, to illustrate the failures of then-day politicians to address 
the issues in that part of New York City. In 2005, author Jonathan Mahler 
published Ladies and Gentlemen, The Bronx is Burning, a book on New York 
in 1977, and credited Cosell with saying the title quote during the aerial 
coverage of the fire. ESPN produced a 2007 mini-series based on the book 
called The Bronx is Burning. Cosell's comment seemed to have captured the 
widespread view that New York City was on the skids and in a state of decline. 
The truth was discovered after Major League Baseball published a complete 
DVD set of all of the games of the 1977 World Series. Coverage of the fire 
begins with Keith Jackson commenting on the enormity of the blaze, while 
Cosell added that President Carter had visited that area just days before. 
As the top of the second inning began, the fire was once again shown from 
a helicopter-mounted camera, and Cosell commented that the New York Fire 
Department had a hard job to do in the Bronx as there were always numerous 
fires. In the bottom of the second, Cosell informed the audience that it 
was an abandoned building that was burning and no lives were in danger. 
There was no further comment on the fire, and Cosell appears to have never 
said "The Bronx is Burning" (at least not on camera) during Game 2.[41] 
Mahler's confusion could have arisen from a 1974 documentary entitled "The 
Bronx is Burning": it is likely Mahler confused the documentary with his 
recollection of Cosell's comments when writing his book.[42] In 1978,[43] 
Baseball Hall of Famer Don Drysdale joined ABC Sports with assignments 
such as Monday Night Baseball, Superstars, and Wide World of Sports. In 
1979, Drysdale covered the World Series Trophy presentation. According 
to Drysdale "My thing is to talk about inside things. Keith [Jackson] does 
play-by-play. Howard's [Cosell] role is anything since anything can happen 
in broadcasting." When ABC released and then rehired him in 1981, Drysdale 
explained it by saying "If there is nothing to say, be quiet." Ultimately, 
Drysdale seemed to be slowly phased out of the ABC picture as fellow Hall 
of Fame pitcher Jim Palmer was considered ABC's new poster child "[of] 
superior looks and...popularity from underwear commercials." By 1989, Palmer 
would earn $350,000 from ABC for appearing on around ten regular season 
broadcasts and making a few postseason appearances.[44] For a national 
television audience, the 1978 American League East tie-breaker game (New 
York Yankees/Boston Red Sox) aired on ABC with Keith Jackson and Don Drysdale 
on the call. Meanwhile, the game aired locally in New York on WPIX and 
on WSBK in Boston. Phil Rizzuto, Frank Messer and Bill White called the 
game on WPIX while Dick Stockton and Ken Harrelson called the game on WSBK. 
Also in 1978, Keith Jackson called an Oklahoma-Texas college football game 
for ABC and then, flew to New York, arriving just in time to call Game 
4 of the ALCS that same night (October 7). In 1979, the start of ABC's 
Monday Night Baseball coverage was moved back to June, due to poor ratings 
during the May sweeps period. In place of April and May prime time games, 
ABC began airing Sunday Afternoon Baseball games in September.[45] The 
network also aired one Friday night game (Yankees at Angels) on June 13 
of that year. On August 6, 1979 the entire Yankee team attended team captain/catcher 
Thurman Munson's funeral in Canton, Ohio. Teammates Lou Piniella and Bobby 
Murcer, who were Munson's best friends, gave eulogies. That night (before 
a national viewing audience on ABC's Monday Night Baseball) the Yankees 
beat the Baltimore Orioles 5–4 in New York, with Murcer driving in all 
five runs with a three-run home run in the seventh inning and a two-run 
single in the bottom of the ninth.[46] ABC hardly showed any baseball games 
during the regular season in the 1980s and when they did, it was only on 
either Monday or Thursday nights from the end of Sweeps Week in late May 
until the NFL preseason started in the first week of August - and then 
you wouldn't see them again until the playoffs. ABC also had a clause where 
they could air a game the last day of the regular season if it had playoff 
implications, such as in 1987 in regards to the Detroit Tigers' American 
League East pennant chase against the Toronto Blue Jays. However, in 1986, 
ABC did do a number of early season Sunday afternoon games before they 
went into Monday Night Baseball. ABC's contract was further modified prior 
to the 1980 season, with the network airing just five Monday Night Baseball 
telecasts in June of that year, followed by Sunday Afternoon Baseball in 
August and September. ABC did Sunday afternoon games late in the season 
in order to fulfill the number of games in the contract and to not interfere 
with Monday Night Football. Also in 1980, ABC (with Al Michaels and Bob 
Uecker on the call) broadcast the National League West tie-breaker game 
between the Houston Astros and Los Angeles Dodgers.[47] On October 11, 
1980, Keith Jackson called an Oklahoma-Texas college football game for 
ABC in the afternoon, then flew to Houston to call Game 4 of the NLCS).[48] 
In the meantime, Don Drysdale filled-in for Jackson on play-by-play for 
the early innings (up until the middle of the fourth inning). Meanwhile, 
ABC used Steve Zabriskie[49] as a field reporter during the 1980 NLCS. 
In 1981, ABC planned to increase coverage to 10 Monday night games and 
eight Sunday afternoon games, but the players' strike that year ended up 
reducing the network's schedule to three Monday night and seven Sunday 
afternoon telecasts. Also in 1981, as means to recoup revenue lost during 
a players' strike, Major League Baseball set up a special additional playoff 
round (as a prelude to the League Championship Series). ABC televised the 
American League Division Series while NBC televised the National League 
Division Series. The Division Series round wasn't officially instituted 
until 14 years later. Games 3 of the Brewers/Yankees series and Royals/Athletics 
series were aired regionally. On October 10, Keith Jackson called an Oklahoma-Texas 
college football game for ABC and missed Game 4 of the Milwaukee-New York 
series. In Jackson's absence, Don Drysdale filled-in for him on play-by-play 
alongside Howard Cosell. In 1982, ABC aired 11 Monday night games and one 
Sunday afternoon game. Game 1 of the 1982 NLCS had to be played twice. 
In the first attempt (on October 6), the Atlanta Braves led against the 
St. Louis Cardinals 1–0 behind Phil Niekro. The game was three outs away 
becoming official when the umpire stopped it. When the rain did not subside, 
the game was canceled.[50] Game 1 began from the start the following night 
in a pitching match-up of Pascual Pérez for the Braves and longtime Cardinal 
starter Bob Forsch. Howard Cosell did not broadcast Game 2 of the 1982 
NLCS (alongside Al Michaels and Tommy Lasorda) because of his commitment 
of hosting the Pittsburgh Steelers' 50th Anniversary dinner in Pittsburgh 
on October 9, 1982, which was broadcast live on Pittsburgh's ABC affiliate, 
WTAE-TV and Pittsburgh's NBC affiliate, WPXI-TV. ABC's Jim Lampley[51] 
interviewed the winners in the Cardinals' clubhouse after clinching the 
National League pennant in Game 3. On April 7, 1983, Major League Baseball, 
ABC, and NBC agreed to terms of a six-year television package worth $1.2 
billion. The two networks continued to alternate coverage of the playoffs 
(ABC in even numbered years and NBC in odd numbered years), World Series 
(ABC televised the World Series in odd numbered years and NBC in even numbered 
years), and All-Star Game (ABC televised the All-Star Game in even numbered 
years[52] and NBC in odd numbered years) through the 1989 season, with 
each of the 26 clubs receiving $7 million per year in return (even if no 
fans showed up). The last package gave each club $1.9 million per year. 
ABC contributed $575 million for regular season prime time and Sunday afternoons 
and NBC paid $550 million for thirty Saturday afternoon games. USA Network's 
coverage became a casualty of the new $1.2 billion TV contract between 
Major League Baseball, ABC and NBC. One of the provisions to the new deal 
was that local telecasts opposite network games had to be eliminated.[53] 
1983 marked the last time that local telecasts of League Championship Series 
games were allowed. In 1982, Major League Baseball recognized a problem 
with this due to the emergence of cable superstations such as WTBS in Atlanta 
and WGN-TV in Chicago. When TBS tried to petition for the right to do a 
"local" Braves broadcast of the 1982 NLCS,[54] Major League Baseball got 
a Philadelphia federal court[55][56] to ban[57] them on the grounds that 
as a cable superstation, TBS could not have a nationwide telecast competing 
with ABC's. Note: The networks got $9 million when Major League Baseball 
expanded the League Championship Series from a best-of-five to a best-of-seven 
in 1985. On June 6, 1983, Al Michaels officially succeeded Keith Jackson 
as the lead play-by-play announcer for Monday Night Baseball. Michaels, 
who spent seven seasons working backup games, was apparently very miffed 
over ABC Sports' delay in announcing him as their top baseball announcer. 
Unlike Jackson, whose forte was college football, Michaels had gigs with 
the Cincinnati Reds and San Francisco Giants before joining ABC in 1976. 
TV Guide huffed about Jackson by saying "A football guy, on baseball!" 
Jackson was unavailable for several World Series games in 1979 and 1981 
because of conflicts with his otherwise normal college football broadcasting 
schedule. Thus, Michaels did play-by-play for games on weekends. Earl Weaver 
was the #1 ABC analyst[58] in 1983, but was also employed by the Baltimore 
Orioles as a consultant. At the time, ABC had a policy preventing an announcer 
who was employed by a team from working games involving that team. So whenever 
the Orioles were on the primary ABC game, Weaver worked the backup game. 
This policy forced Weaver to resign from the Orioles' consulting position 
in October in order to be able to work the World Series for ABC. The rather 
unusual 1984 NLCS[59] schedule (which had an off day after Game 3 rather 
than Game 2) allowed ABC to have a prime time game each weeknight even 
though Chicago's Wrigley Field did not have lights at the time (which remained 
the case until four years later). ABC used Tim McCarver as a field reporter 
during the 1984 NLCS. During the regular season, McCarver teamed with Don 
Drysdale (who teamed with Earl Weaver and Reggie Jackson for the 1984 NLCS) 
on backup games[60] while Al Michaels, Jim Palmer and Earl Weaver/Howard 
Cosell formed ABC's number one broadcasting team. For ABC's coverage of 
the 1984 All-Star Game, Jim Palmer only served as a between innings analyst. 
Meanwhile, had the 1984 ALCS between the Detroit Tigers and Kansas City 
Royals gone the full five games (the last year that the League Championship 
Series was a best-of-five series), Game 5 on Sunday October 7, would have 
been a 1 p.m. ET time start instead of being in prime time. This would 
have happened because one of the presidential debates between Ronald Reagan 
and Walter Mondale was scheduled for that night. In return, ABC was going 
to broadcast the debates instead of a baseball game in prime time. In 1985, 
ABC announced that every game of the World Series would be played under 
the lights for the biggest baseball audience possible. Just prior to the 
start of the 1985 World Series, ABC removed Howard Cosell from scheduled 
announcing duties as punishment for his controversial book I Never Played 
the Game. In Cosell's place came Tim McCarver (joining play-by-play man 
Michaels and fellow color commentator Jim Palmer), who was beginning his 
trek of being a part of numerous World Series telecasts. Reportedly, by 
1985, Cosell was considered to be difficult to work with on baseball telecasts. 
Apparently, Cosell and Michaels got into a fairly heated argument following 
the conclusion of their coverage of the 1984 American League Championship 
Series due to Cosell's supposed drunkenness among other problems.[61][62][63] 
Rumor has it that Michaels went as far as to urged ABC executives to remove 
Cosell from the booth. Ultimately, Michaels went public with his problems 
with Cosell. Michaels claimed that "Howard had become a cruel, evil, vicious 
person." By 1986, ABC only televised 13 Monday Night Baseball games.[64] 
This was a fairly sharp contrast to the 18 games to that were scheduled 
in 1978. The Sporting News believed that ABC paid Major League Baseball 
to not make them televise the regular season. TSN added that the network 
only wanted the sport for October anyway. Going into 1987, ABC had reportedly 
purchased 20 Monday night games but only used eight of those slots. More 
to the point, CBS Sports president Neal Pilson said "Three years ago, we 
believed ABC's package was overpriced by $175 million. We still believe 
it's overpriced by $175 million."[65] On October 15, 1986, Game 6 of the 
NLCS ran so long (lasting for 16 innings, 5 hours and 29 minutes), it bumped 
up against the start time of Game 7 of the ALCS (also on ABC). During Game 
6 of the NLCS, color commentator Tim McCarver left the booth during the 
bottom of the 16th, in order to cover the expected celebration in the New 
York Mets' clubhouse. As a result, play-by-play man Keith Jackson was on 
the air by himself for a short time. Eventually, McCarver rejoined the 
broadcast just before the end of the game, watching the action on a monitor 
in the Mets' clubhouse, then doing the postgame interviews with the Mets. 
Meanwhile, Corey McPherrin, a sports anchor with WABC (ABC's flagship station 
out of New York) interviewed Mike Scott when he was presented with the 
1986 NLCS MVP award after Game 6. During the late 1980s, McPherrin delivered 
in-game updates during ABC's Monday Night Baseball and Thursday Night Baseball 
broadcasts. In his last ever ABC assignment, Don Drysdale interviewed the 
winners in the Boston clubhouse following Game 7 of the 1986 ALCS. For 
the 1987 World Series between the Minnesota Twins and St. Louis Cardinals, 
ABC utilized 12 cameras and nine tape machines. This includes cameras positioned 
down the left field line, on the roof of the Metrodome, and high above 
third base. There have been a few occasions when two Monday Night Football 
games were played simultaneously. In 1987, a scheduling conflict arose 
when Major League Baseball's Minnesota Twins went to Game 7 of the World 
Series (which also aired on ABC[66]), making the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome 
unavailable for the Minnesota Vikings' scheduled game (against the Denver 
Broncos) that Sunday. During the 1988 Writers Guild of America strike, 
networks benefited from sports programming, including NBC, which relied 
on the Summer Olympics in September and the World Series in October, and 
ABC, which in addition to its postseason baseball coverage, moved up the 
start time for the early weeks of Monday Night Football (when Al Michaels 
was unavailable to do play-by-play on Monday Night Football, which he had 
done for ABC beginning in 1986 due to his postseason baseball duties, Frank 
Gifford covered for him) from 9 p.m. ET to 8 p.m. ET (MacGyver, which normally 
aired at 8 p.m., was not yet ready with new episodes). ABC's coverage of 
Game 2[67] of the 1988 NLCS[68] didn't start until 10 p.m. ET due to a 
presidential debate. This is the latest ever scheduled start for an LCS 
game. Gary Bender did play-by-play for the 1988 American League Championship 
Series between the Oakland Athletics and Boston Red Sox. Bender spent two 
years (1987-1988) as the #2 baseball play-by-play man for ABC behind Al 
Michaels. Bender worked the backup Monday Night Baseball broadcasts (with 
Tim McCarver in 1987 and Joe Morgan in 1988) as well as serving as a field 
reporter for ABC's 1987 World Series coverage. After Bender spent an entire 
summer developing a team with Joe Morgan, ABC brought in Reggie Jackson 
to work with the duo for the 1988 ALCS. According to Bender's autobiography 
Call of the Game (pages 118-120), ABC's decision to bring in Jackson to 
work with Bender and Morgan caused problems: It should be noted that during 
the spare time of his active career, Reggie Jackson worked as a field reporter 
and color commentator for ABC Sports. During the 1980s (1983, 1985, and 
1987 respectively), Jackson was given the task of presiding over the World 
Series Trophy presentations. In 1989 (the final year of ABC's contract 
with Major League Baseball), ABC moved the baseball telecasts to Thursday 
nights[69] in hopes of getting leg up against NBC's Cosby Show. After braving 
the traumatic Loma Prieta earthquake[70] and an all-time low 16.4 rating 
for the 1989 World Series,[71] Al Michaels took ABC's loss of baseball 
to CBS[72][73] as "tough to accept."Michaels added that "baseball was such 
an early stepchild at ABC and had come such a long way."[74] Gary Thorne,[75] 
who served as ABC's backup play-by-play announcer in 1989 and was an on-field 
reporter for the World Series that year (and covering the trophy presentation 
in the process), simply laughed while saying "Great reviews, just as ABC 
baseball ends." Meanwhile, Dennis Swanson, president of ABC Sports, noted 
in a statement that baseball had been a blue-chip franchise since 1976 
for the network, which was disappointed to lose it.[64] After ABC lost 
the Major League Baseball package to CBS, they aggressively counterprogrammed 
CBS' postseason baseball coverage with made-for-TV movies and miniseries 
geared towards female viewers.[76] I`ll miss it. I`ve been involved with 
this (ABC) package since Day One (in 1976). Especially now, because beginning 
with our postseason coverage in 1985 [That`s when analysts Jim Palmer and 
Tim McCarver permanently joined ABC`s baseball crew, teaming with producer 
Curt Gowdy Jr. and director Craig Janoff], I really felt we'd put it together 
the way I`d always dreamed about it. In the early years, we attempted to 
cover it in a different fashion. ABC had been gigantically successful with 
`Wide World of Sports` and with covering the Olympic Games. A number of 
people in our company wanted to cover baseball (like) gymnastics and swimming 
and other `Wide World` events. Attempting to do that was basically, in 
the early years, an abysmal failure. Baseball needs to be looked at in 
a certain manner. You need people in it who understand the game and truly 
love the game. It took us a while to get the right people and the right 
group together. I know some of the NBC people recently have talked about 
their cameramen, their audio men, the guys involved with their telecasts 
are baseball fans. They love baseball. It took us a while to get up to 
speed in that area. But once we did, we began to cover it as well as it's 
been covered. I`m tremendously proud of what we have done, especially from 
the 1985 postseason coverage on. We got to a point, especially in the last 
couple of years, (where) nothing can stop us now. And the only thing that 
stopped us was the fact we lost the rights. If you'll indulge us just another 
moment, this is the end of our association with baseball. I think as many 
of you may know, the primary package goes to CBS. And to our friends at 
what's known in the industry as "Black Rock", good luck in 1990 and beyond.[77] 
As previously mentioned, Game 3 of the 1989 World Series[78] (initially 
scheduled for October 17) was delayed by ten days due to the Loma Prieta 
earthquake.[79] The earthquake struck at approximately 5:04 p.m. Pacific 
Time. At the moment the quake struck, ABC's color commentator Tim McCarver[80] 
was narrating taped highlights of the previous Series game. Viewers saw 
the video signal begin to break up, heard McCarver repeat a sentence as 
the shaking distracted him, and heard McCarver's colleague Al Michaels 
exclaim, "I'll tell you what—we're having an earth—."[81] At that moment, 
the feed from Candlestick Park was lost.[82] The network put up a green 
ABC Sports graphic as the audio was switched to a telephone link. Michaels 
cracked, "Well folks, that's the greatest open in the history of television, 
bar none!" accompanied by the excited screams of fans who had no idea of 
the devastation elsewhere.[83] After about a 15-minute delay (ABC aired 
a rerun of Roseanne and subsequently, The Wonder Years in the meantime), 
ABC was able to regain power via a backup generator. ABC's play-by-play 
man, Al Michaels (who was familiar with the San Francisco Bay Area dating 
back to his days working for the San Francisco Giants from 1974-1976) then 
proceeded to relay reports to Ted Koppel at ABC News' headquarters in Washington, 
D.C. Al Michaels was ultimately nominated for an Emmy for his on-site reporting 
at the World Series. The Goodyear blimp was aloft above the ballpark to 
provide aerial coverage of the World Series. Blimp pilot John Crayton reported 
that he felt four bumps during the quake.[84] ABC was able to use the blimp 
to capture some of the first images of the damage to the Bay Bridge.[85] 
At this very moment ten days ago, we began our telecast with an aerial 
view of San Francisco; always a spectacular sight, and particularly so 
on that day because the cloudless sky of October 17 was ice blue, and the 
late-day sun sparkled like a thousand jewels. That picture was very much 
a mirror of the feel and the mood that had enveloped the Bay Area...and 
most of Northern California. Their baseball teams, the Giants and A's, 
had won pennants, and the people of this region were still basking in the 
afterglow of each team's success. And this great American sporting classic, 
the World Series, was, for the time being, exclusively theirs. Then of 
course the feeling of pure radiance was transformed into horror and grief 
and despair- in just fifteen seconds.[86] And now on October 27, like a 
fighter who's taken a vicious blow to the stomach and has groggily arisen, 
this region moves on and moves ahead. And one part of that scenario is 
the resumption of the World Series. No one in this ballpark tonight- no 
player, no vendor, no fan, no writer, no announcer, in fact, no one in 
this area period- can forget the images. The column of smoke in the Marina. 
The severed bridge. The grotesque tangle of concrete in Oakland. The pictures 
are embedded in our minds. And while the mourning and the suffering and 
the aftereffects will continue, in about thirty minutes the plate umpire, 
Vic Voltaggio will say ‘Play Ball', and the players will play, the vendors 
will sell, the announcers will announce, the crowd will exhort. And for 
many of the six million people in this region, it will be like revisiting 
Fantasyland. After a four-year-long hiatus (when CBS exclusively carried 
the Major League Baseball television rights), ABC returned to baseball 
in 1994. Under a six-year plan, Major League Baseball was intended to receive 
85% of the first $140 million in advertising revenue (or 87.5% of advertising 
revenues and corporate sponsorship from the games until sales top a specified 
level), 50% of the next $30 million, and 80% of any additional money. Prior 
to this, Major League Baseball was projected to take a projected 55% cut 
in rights fees and receive a typical rights fee from the networks. After 
NBC was finished with their post-1994 All-Star Game six-week baseball coverage, 
ABC (with a reunited Al Michaels, Tim McCarver, and Jim Palmer as the primary 
crew) then picked up where NBC left off by televising six more regular 
season games. Joining the team of Michaels, McCarver, and Palmer was Lesley 
Visser, who served as the lead field reporter for the CBS' baseball coverage 
from 1990-1993. Visser was reuniting with McCarver, for whom she had worked 
with on CBS. The regular season games fell under the Baseball Night in 
America umbrella which premiered on July 16, 1994. On the subject of play-by-play 
man Al Michaels returning to baseball for the first time since the infamous 
1989 World Series, Jim Palmer said "Here Al is, having done five games 
since 1989 and steps right in. It's hard to comprehend how one guy could 
so amaze." In even-numbered years, NBC had the rights to the All-Star Game 
and both League Championship Series while ABC had the World Series and 
newly created Division Series. In odd-numbered years, the postseason and 
All-Star Game television rights were supposed to alternate. ABC won the 
rights to the first dibs at the World Series in August 1993 after ABC Sports 
president Dennis Swanson won a coin toss by calling "heads." Ken Schanzer, 
who was the CEO of The Baseball Network, handled the coin toss. Schanzer 
agreed to the coin toss by ABC and NBC at the outset as the means of determining 
the order in which they'd divvy up the playoffs. The long term plans for 
The Baseball Network crumbled when the players went on strike on August 
12, 1994 (thus forcing the cancellation of the World Series). In July 1995, 
ABC and NBC, who wound up having to share the duties of televising the 
1995 World Series as a way to recoup (with ABC broadcasting Games 1, 4, 
and 5 and NBC broadcasting Games 2, 3, and 6), announced that they were 
opting out of their agreement with Major League Baseball. Both networks 
figured that as the delayed 1995 baseball season opened without a labor 
agreement, there was no guarantee against another strike. Both networks 
soon publicly vowed to cut all ties with Major League Baseball for the 
remainder of the 20th century. ABC Sports president Dennis Swanson, in 
announcing the dissolution of The Baseball Network, said: The network's 
final Major League Baseball game to date was Game 5 of the 1995 World Series 
(October 26). Calling the final out of the game, Al Michaels yelled, "Back 
to Georgia!" as the Cleveland Indians took Game 5. After losing its Major 
League Baseball broadcast rights again, this time to Fox, ABC counterprogrammed 
against Fox's postseason coverage by airing a mix of miniseries and TV-movies 
aimed at female viewers. One of the movies aired on ABC, Unforgiven, aired 
opposite Andy Pettitte's shutout in Game 5 of the 1996 World Series (Fox's 
first World Series, and the final game in Atlanta–Fulton County Stadium 
history). Sister network ESPN (under the Walt Disney Company umbrella), 
which took over ABC Sports operations in 2006 under the name "ESPN on ABC", 
continues to show MLB contests (beginning in 1990), but it is contractually 
prohibited from transferring any games to ABC, even if it wanted to, as 
Fox holds exclusive terrestrial television rights in the U.S. until 2013. 
Several ABC baseball alumni such as Joe Morgan and Gary Thorne have regularly 
worked on ESPN's baseball broadcasts. Even though ABC has stopped airing 
MLB as a whole, 25 Chicago Cubs games aire aired and produced, and syndicated 
