The following is a detailed description of the various television networks 
(both broadcast and cable), rights fees, and announcers who have called 
Major League Baseball games throughout the years (from the late 1930s through 
the present). Terrestrial television: Cable television: Sportsnet and Réseau 
des sports (RDS) are the current national rightsholders, in English and 
French respectively, to Major League Baseball, and both air a variety of 
regular-season games (which do not always correspond to those carried nationally 
in the U.S.) as well as the All-Star Game and the postseason. In the past 
these rights were held by The Score (2001–2002), TSN (1990–2000), and CTV 
(1981–1996). In 2010, Sportsnet began subleasing its rights to Sunday Night 
Baseball to rival TSN2, in return for TSN yielding its remaining rights 
to Toronto Blue Jays games to Sportsnet. As presently the only MLB team 
in Canada, all Blue Jays games are also aired nationally in that country. 
These rights are negotiated by the team itself, not MLB, with all games 
currently airing on the co-owned Sportsnet and Sportsnet One in English, 
while TVA Sports has French-language rights to selected Blue Jays games. 
Other Canadian broadcasters have carried these games in the past, with 
TSN being the team's main carrier from 1984 to 1998 (and in a lesser role 
until 2009), and CBC and CTV also providing national coverage of some games 
at various points over the course of the team's history. In 1953, ABC-TV 
executive Edgar J. Scherick (who would later go on to create Wide World 
of Sports) broached a Saturday Game of the Week-TV sport's first network 
series. At the time, ABC was labeled a "nothing network" that had fewer 
outlets than CBS or NBC. ABC also needed paid programming or "anything 
for bills" as Scherick put it. At first, ABC hesitated at the idea of a 
nationally televised regular season baseball program. ABC wondered how 
exactly the Game of the Week would reach television in the first place 
and who would notice if it did. In April 1953, Edgar Scherick set out to 
sell teams rights but instead, only got the Philadelphia Athletics, Cleveland 
Indians,[1] and Chicago White Sox[2][3] to sign on.[4] To make matters 
worse, Major League Baseball barred the Game of the Week from airing within 
50 miles of any ballpark.[5] Major League Baseball according to Scherick, 
insisted on protecting local coverage and didn't care about national appeal. 
ABC though, did care about the national appeal and claimed that "most of 
America was still up for grabs." CBS took over the Saturday Game in 1955 
(the rights were actually set up through the Falstaff Brewing Corporation,[6]) 
retaining Dizzy Dean and Buddy Blattner as the announcers and adding Sunday 
coverage in 1957. In 1959, ABC broadcast the best-of-three playoff series[7][8][9] 
(to decide the National League pennant) between Milwaukee Braves and Los 
Angeles Dodgers. The cigarette company L&M was in charge of all of the 
telecasts. Bud Blattner (who was still working for CBS in the regular season) 
was one of the announcers. In 1960, ABC returned to baseball broadcasting 
with a series of late-afternoon Saturday games. Jack Buck and Carl Erskine[10][11] 
were the lead announcing crew for this series, which lasted one season.[12] 
ABC typically did three games a week. Two of the games were always from 
the Eastern or Central Time Zone. The late games (no doubleheaders) were 
usually San Francisco Giants[13] or Los Angeles Dodgers' home games. However, 
the Milwaukee Braves[14] used to start many of their Saturday home games 
late in the afternoon. So if the Giants and Dodgers were both the road 
at the same time, ABC still would be able to show a late game. By 1964, 
CBS' Dizzy Dean and Pee Wee Reese worked Yankee Stadium, Wrigley Field, 
St. Louis, Philadelphia, and Baltimore. New York got $550,000 of CBS' $895,000. 
Six clubs that exclusively played nationally televised games on NBC got 
$1.2 million. ABC paid $5.7 million for the rights to the 28 Saturday/holiday 
Games of the Week. ABC's deal covered all of the teams except the New York 
Yankees and Philadelphia Phillies (who had their own television deals) 
and called for two regionalized games on Saturdays, Independence Day, and 
Labor Day. ABC blacked out the games in the home cities of the clubs playing 
those games. On October 19, 1966, NBC signed a three-year contract with 
Major League Baseball. The year before, NBC lost the rights to the Saturday–Sunday 
Game of the Week. In addition, the previous deal limited CBS to covering 
only 12 weekends when its new subsidiary, the New York Yankees, played 
at home. The new package under NBC called for 28 games compared to 1960's 
three-network 123. Under the new deal, NBC paid roughly $6 million per 
year for the 25 Games of the Week, $6.1 million for the 1967 World Series 
and 1967 All-Star Game, and $6.5 million for the 1968 World Series and 
1968 All-Star Game. This brought the total value of the contract (which 
included three Monday night telecasts) up to $30.6 million. By 1969, Major 
League Baseball had grown to 24 teams and the net local TV revenues had 
leaped to $20.7 million. This is in sharp contrast to 1950 when local television 
brought the then 16 Major League clubs a total net income of $2.3 million. 
Changes baseball underwent during this time, such as expansion franchises 
and increasing the schedule from 154 games to 162, led to a wider audience 
for network and local television. From 1972–1975 NBC televised Monday games 
under a contract worth $72 million. In 1973, NBC extended the Monday night 
telecasts (with a local blackout) to 15 straight. On September 1, 1975, 
NBC's last Monday Night Baseball game, in which the Montréal Expos beat 
the Philadelphia Phillies 6–5. In the aftermath of the thrilling 1975 World 
Series,[15] attendance figures, television contracts (this time including 
two networks, NBC and now ABC), and player salaries all soared. In the 
eyes of some, that particular World Series restored baseball as America's 
national pastime (ahead of football). Under the initial agreement with 
ABC, NBC, and Major League Baseball (1976-1979), the two networks paid 
a combined $92.8 million. ABC paid $12.5 million per year to show 16 Monday 
night games in 1976, 18 in the next three years, plus half the postseason 
(the League Championship Series in even numbered years and World Series 
in odd numbered years). NBC paid $10.7 million per year to show 25 Saturday 
Games of the Week and the other half of the postseason (the League Championship 
Series in odd numbered years and World Series in even numbered years). 
Major League Baseball media director John Lazarus said of the new arrangement 
between NBC and ABC "Ratings couldn't get more from one network so we approached 
another." NBC's Joe Garagiola wasn't very fond of new broadcasting arrangement 
at first saying "I wished they hadn't got half the package. Still, Game, 
half of the postseason - we got lots left." By 1980, income from TV accounted 
for a record 30% of the game's $500 million in revenues. In 1980, 22 teams 
(all but the Atlanta Braves, Houston Astros, New York Mets, and St. Louis 
Cardinals) took part in a one-year cable deal with UA-Columbia. The deal 
involved the airing of a Thursday night Game of the Week in markets at 
least 50 miles (80 km) from a major league park. The deal earned Major 
League Baseball less than $500,000, but led to a new two-year contract 
for 40-45 games per season. On April 7, 1983, Major League Baseball, ABC, 
and NBC agreed to terms of a six-year television package worth $1.2 billion. 
The two networks would continue to alternate coverage of the playoffs (ABC 
in even numbered years and NBC in odd numbered years), World Series (ABC 
would televise the World Series in odd numbered years and NBC in even numbered 
years), and All-Star Game (ABC would televise the All-Star Game in even 
numbered years and NBC in odd numbered years) through the 1989 season, 
with each of the 26 clubs receiving $7 million per year in return (even 
if no fans showed up). The last package gave each club $1.9 million per 
year. ABC contributed $575 million for regular season prime time and Sunday 
afternoons and NBC paid $550 million for thirty Saturday afternoon games. 
By 1986, ABC only televised 13 Monday Night Baseball games. This was a 
fairly sharp contrast to the 18 games that were scheduled in 1978. The 
Sporting News believed that ABC paid Major League Baseball to not make 
them televise the regular season. TSN added that the network only wanted 
the sport for October anyway. Note: The networks got $9 million when Major 
League Baseball expanded the League Championship Series from a best-of-five 
to a best-of-seven in 1985. On December 14, 1988, CBS (under the guidance 
of Commissioner Peter Ueberroth) paid approximately $1.8 billion for exclusive 
television rights for over four years (beginning in 1990). CBS paid about 
$265 million each year for the World Series, League Championship Series, 
All-Star Game, and the Saturday Game of the Week. It was one of the largest 
agreements (to date) between the sport of baseball and the business of 
broadcasting. On January 5, 1989, Major League Baseball signed a $400 million 
deal with ESPN, who would show over 175 games beginning in 1990. For the 
next four years, ESPN would televise six games a week (Sunday, Wednesday 
Night Baseball, doubleheaders on Tuesdays and Fridays, plus holidays). 
The deal with CBS was also supposed to pay each team $10 million a year. 
A separate deal with cable TV would bring each team an additional $4 million. 
Each team could also cut its own deal with local TV. For example, the New 
York Yankees signed with a cable network (MSG) that would pay the team 
$41 million annually for 12 years. Radio broadcast rights can bring in 
additional money. Reportedly, after the huge TV contracts with CBS and 
ESPN were signed, ballclubs spent their excess millions on free agents. 
In the end, CBS wound up losing approximately half a billion dollars from 
their television contract with Major League Baseball. CBS repeatedly asked 
Major League Baseball for a rebate, but MLB wasn't willing to do this. 
After the fall-out from CBS' financial problems from their four-year-long 
television contract with Major League Baseball, MLB decided to go into 
the business of producing the telecasts themselves. After a four-year hiatus, 
ABC and NBC returned to Major League Baseball under the umbrella of a revenue 
sharing venture called "The Baseball Network." Under a six-year plan, Major 
League Baseball was intended to receive 85% of the first $140 million in 
advertising revenue (or 87.5% of advertising revenues and corporate sponsorship 
from the games until sales top a specified level), 50% of the next $30 
million, and 80% of any additional money. Prior to this, Major League Baseball 
was projected to take a projected 55% cut in rights fees and receive a 
typical rights fee from the networks. When compared to the previous TV 
deal with CBS, The Baseball Network was supposed to bring in 50% less of 
the broadcasting revenue. The advertisers were reportedly excited about 
the arrangement with The Baseball Network because the new package included 
several changes intended to boost ratings, especially among younger viewers. 
Arranging broadcasts through The Baseball Network seemed, on the surface, 
to benefit NBC and ABC since it gave them a monopoly on broadcasting Major 
League Baseball. It also stood to benefit the networks because they reduced 
the risk associated with purchasing the broadcast rights outright. NBC 
and ABC attempted to create a loss-free environment for each other. After 
NBC's coverage of the 1994 All-Star Game was complete, NBC was scheduled 
to televise six regular season games on Fridays or Saturdays in prime time. 
The networks had exclusive rights for the 12 regular season dates, in that 
no regional or national cable service or over-the-air broadcaster may telecast 
an MLB game on those dates. Baseball Night in America usually aired up 
to 14 games based on the viewers' region (affiliates chose games of local 
interest to carry) as opposed to a traditional coast-to-coast format. ABC 
would then pick up where NBC left off by televising six more regular season 
games. The regular season games fell under the Baseball Night in America 
umbrella which premiered on July 16, 1994. In even numbered years, NBC 
would have the rights to the All-Star Game and both League Championship 
Series while ABC would have the World Series and newly created Division 
Series. In odd numbered years the postseason and All-Star Game television 
rights were supposed to alternate. The long term plans for The Baseball 
Network crumbled when the players went on strike on August 12, 1994 (thus 
forcing the cancellation of the World Series). In July 1995, ABC and NBC, 
who wound up having to share the duties of televising the 1995 World Series 
as a way to recoup (with ABC broadcasting Games 1, 4, and 5 and NBC broadcasting 
Games 2, 3, and 6), announced that they were opting out of their agreement 
with Major League Baseball. Both networks figured that as the delayed 1995 
baseball season opened without a labor agreement, there was no guarantee 
against another strike. Others would argue that a primary reason for its 
failure was its abandoning of localized markets in favor of more lucrative 
and stable advertising contracts afforded by turning to a national model 
of broadcasting. Both networks soon publicly vowed to cut all ties with 
Major League Baseball for the remainder of the 20th century. In the end, 
the venture would lose $95 million in advertising and nearly $500 million 
in national and local spending. Also in 1994, ESPN renewed its baseball 
contract for six years (through the 1999 season). The new deal was worth 
$42.5 million per year and $255 million overall. The deal was ultimately 
voided after the 1995 season and ESPN was pretty much forced to restructure 
their contract. Soon after the Baseball Network fiasco, Major League Baseball 
made a deal with Fox and NBC on November 7, 1995. Fox paid a fraction less 
of the amount of money that CBS paid for the Major League Baseball television 
rights. Unlike The Baseball Network, Fox went back to the tried and true 
format of televising regular season games (approximately 16 weekly telecasts 
that normally began on Memorial Day weekend) on Saturday afternoons. Fox 
did however, continue a format that The Baseball Network started by offering 
games based purely on a viewer's region. Fox's approach has usually been 
to offer four regionalized telecasts, with exclusivity from 1–4 p.m. in 
each time zone. When Fox first got into baseball, it used the motto "Same 
game, new attitude." Under the five-year deal (from 1996–2000) for a total 
of approximately $400 million, NBC didn't televise any regular season games. 
Instead, NBC only handled the All-Star Game and the American League Championship 
Series in even numbered years and the World Series and National League 
Championship Series in odd numbered years, in addition to three Division 
Series games in each of these five years. Also in 1996, ESPN began a five-year 
contract with Major League Baseball worth $440 million and about $80 million 
per year. ESPN paid for the rights to a Wednesday doubleheader and the 
Sunday night Game of the Week, as well as all postseason games not aired 
on Fox or NBC. Major League Baseball staggered the times of first-round 
games to provide a full-day feast for viewers: ESPN could air games at 
1 p.m., 4 p.m., and 11 p.m. EDT, with the broadcast networks telecasting 
the prime time game. Beginning in 1997, Fox entered a four-year joint venture 
with Liberty Media Cable (which resulted in the placement of a Thursday 
night baseball game on Fox Sports Net alongside an FX Saturday night game, 
Fox Family would later replace Fox Sports Net) worth $172 million. The 
deal called for two games a week that aired games on its choice of two 
weeknights other than Wednesday, with no exclusivity. In September 2000, 
Major League Baseball signed a six-year, $2.5 billion contract with Fox 
to show Saturday baseball, the All-Star Game, selected Division Series 
games and exclusive coverage of both League Championship Series and the 
World Series. Under the previous five-year deal with NBC (1996–2000), Fox 
paid $115 million while NBC only paid $80 million per year. Fox paid about 
$575 million overall while NBC paid about $400 million overall. The difference 
between the Fox and the NBC contracts implicitly values Fox's Saturday 
Game of the Week at less than $90 million for five years. Before NBC officially 
decided to part ways with Major League Baseball (for the second time in 
about 12 years) on September 26, 2000, Fox's payment would've been $345 
million while NBC would've paid $240 million. Before 1990, NBC had carried 
Major League Baseball since 1947. We have notified Major League Baseball 
that we have passed on their offer and we wish them well going forward. 
NBC Sports chairman Dick Ebersol added that it wasn't cost-effective for 
NBC to be putting out the kind of money that Major League Baseball wanted. 
After weeks of speculation and rumors, on July 11, 2006 at the All-Star 
Game, Major League Baseball and the Fox Broadcasting Company announced 
a renewal of their current contract through 2013. The contract would continue 
to give Fox exclusive rights to televise the World Series and the All-Star 
Game for the duration of the contract. The World Series would begin the 
Wednesday after the League Championship Series are completed. OLN (now 
NBC Sports Network) was briefly considering picking up the rights to the 
Sunday and Wednesday games, which expired after the 2005 season. On September 
14, 2005 however, ESPN, then the current rights holder, signed an eight-year 
contract with Major League Baseball, highlighted by the continuation of 
ESPN's Sunday Night Baseball series with additional, exclusive team appearances. 
Fox would also get exclusive rights to televise the American League Championship 
Series in odd years beginning in 2007, and exclusive rights to televise 
the National League Championship Series in even years beginning in 2008. 
Additionally, Fox would have the right to broadcast its regional Saturday 
Game of the Week package for all 26 weeks (up from 18 under the previous 
contract). Additionally, Time Warner's TBS gained rights to a Sunday afternoon 
Game of the Week, beginning in the 2008 season. TBS will be allowed to 
choose the games that it will carry and may select a single team up to 
13 times. These games will normally be shown outside the participating 
teams' markets, and thus TBS has the option of producing an alternate game 
in those markets. As of the 2008 season, they have decided against this. 
TBS also gained exclusive broadcast rights to the Division Series in both 
leagues, as well as any tiebreaking games. TBS will also gain the rights 
to the All-Star Game Selection Show, meaning that ESPN (which previously 
carried it) can only broadcast the information after it airs on TBS. It 
was announced on October 17, 2006 that TBS will get exclusive rights to 
televise the National League Championship Series in odd years beginning 
in 2007, and exclusive rights to televise the American League Championship 
Series in even years beginning in 2008. This contract also runs through 
2013. As part of the contract, TBS relinquished its rights to air Atlanta 
Braves games nationally after the 2007 season, by separating WTBS (now 
WPCH) channel 17 from the TBS network, rebranding as Peachtree TV on October 
1, 2007. The new station would still air Atlanta Braves games. Those games 
have been made available to local cable and satellite operators in the 
Southeast for the 2008 season. In addition, some Braves games have appeared 
on TBS as part of the new package. On August 28, 2012, it was announced 
that ESPN and Major League Baseball had agreed on a new eight-year deal 
that greatly increases the network's studio and game content across all 
of its platforms. Also it will increased ESPN's average yearly payment 
from about $360 million to approximately $700 million.[16] ESPN also will 
return to broadcasting postseason baseball beginning in 2014 with one of 
two wild-card games each season. The network will alternate airing the 
American League and National League wild-card games each year. It also 
will have the rights to all potential regular-season tiebreaker games starting 
in 2014.[17] On September 19, 2012, Sports Business Daily[18][19] reported 
that Major League Baseball would agree to separate eight-year television 
deals[20] with Fox Sports and Turner Sports[21] through the 2021 season. 
Fox would reportedly pay around $4 billion over eight years (close to $500 
million per year) while Turner would pay around $2.8 billion over eight 
years (more than $300 million per year). Under the new deals, Fox and TBS' 
coverage would essentially be the same as in the 2007-2013 contract with 
the exception of Fox and TBS splitting coverage of the Division Series, 
which TBS has broadcast exclusively dating back to 2007. More importantly, 
Fox would carry some of the games (such as the Saturday afternoon Game 
of the Week) on its all-sports channel, Fox Sports 1. Sources also said 
that was possible that Fox would sell some Division Series games to MLB 
Network, which did end up occurring. It was reported that when DirecTV 
and Major League Baseball completed their deal for MLB Extra Innings in 
2007, the deal will include DirecTV carrying Major League Baseball's league 
owned MLB Network, at first on an exclusive basis. With the later agreement 
between MLB and iN DEMAND expanding the distribution of Extra Innings to 
cable, it was announced the MLB Network will also be carried on most major 
cable services starting January 1, 2009. The channel airs Thursday night 
games (and simulcasts games on Saturdays and other days from RSN feeds) 
and a daily highlight show (although ESPN's Baseball Tonight will be protected 
