The Major League Baseball relocations of 1950s–1960s is the move of several 
Major League Baseball franchises to the Western and Southern United States. 
This was in stark contrast to the early years of modern baseball, when 
the American League intentionally put teams in National League cities to 
compete directly with those teams. Chicago, Boston, Philadelphia, and St. 
Louis were two-team towns, while New York City had three. This effectively 
had baseball confined to the Northeast and Midwest, with no teams located 
west of St. Louis or south of Washington, D.C. The moves, though controversial 
in some circles, brought new prosperity to the game of baseball. As of 
2015 Chicago remains as the only market with two pre-expansion era teams, 
the Chicago Cubs and the Chicago White Sox, though the White Sox have come 
close to relocating on several occasions. The expansion of Major League 
Baseball out west mirrors the story of the expansion of the population 
in the United States. As the economy in the country grew, Americans headed 
out west. Baseball soon followed, likely because of the ease of travel 
by commercial jet. The American economy flourished in the 1960s, and baseball 
was able to expand and evolve at an unprecedented rate. Economic push and 
pull factors caused many teams to relocate, and the emergence of cities 
in the new frontier allowed baseball teams to pop up across the country. 
The moves of the Brooklyn Dodgers and New York Giants to California in 
1958 broke the ice and opened the West Coast to the market of baseball. 
Starting in the 1960s, both the National and American Leagues expanded 
to add teams in new and existing cities, adding 14 teams as of 2015.[1] 
During the early years of the American League as a major league, the league 
placed franchises in cities that were either in direct competition with 
National League teams (New York City, Chicago, Boston, Philadelphia, and 
St. Louis) or in markets abandoned by the Senior Circuit after the 1899 
contraction (Cleveland, Washington, D.C., and briefly Baltimore). Only 
Detroit, home of the Detroit Tigers, was a true "new" baseball market for 
the American League, although the National League had previously hosted 
the Detroit Wolverines between 1881 and 1888. In these early years, only 
two National League markets did not have an American League counterpart: 
Cincinnati and Pittsburgh. It is unknown why a second team was not placed 
in Cincinnati to compete with the Cincinnati Reds, though there was a reasoning 
behind Pittsburgh not getting an American League team. The Pittsburgh Pirates 
were one of baseball's dominant teams early in the 20th century, and as 
part of the National Agreement in 1903, the Junior Circuit agreed not to 
place a team in Pittsburgh. After the relocation of the original Baltimore 
Orioles to New York in 1903 where they ultimately became the New York Yankees, 
no major league team would relocate for 50 years. The set-up was also reflective 
of the population at the time, as most of the major population areas were 
in the Northeast and Midwestern United States in the aftermath of Reconstruction 
and later the Great Migration. Baseball was tied to the history and culture 
of New York City up until the 1950s. Three of the best teams in the league 
were located in New York City: the Yankees, Giants and Dodgers.[2] Over 
the years, though, it became apparent that one team would be more popular 
than the other in a given market. In Boston, despite the Boston Braves 
having been established much longer in the city and arguably being the 
oldest continuing professional sports franchise in North America, the Boston 
Red Sox were by far the more popular team at the gate and with fans. In 
addition, the Red Sox were largely successful on the field (except in the 
immediate years after selling Babe Ruth to the Yankees) while the Braves 
were an also-ran and often in the second division of the National League. 
In stark contrast, the National League was able to hang on to St. Louis, 
where the St. Louis Cardinals were more successful than the St. Louis Browns. 
One oddity would be Philadelphia, where the American League's Philadelphia 
Athletics were by far the more popular team in the city, led by longtime 
manager Connie Mack, as the Philadelphia Phillies were mostly losing during 
this period. However, with the Phillies enjoying rare success in 1950 at 
the hands of the Whiz Kids, the tables instantly turned on the Athletics. 
Additionally, a "spite fence" built at Shibe Park in 1935 (to keep spectators 
outside of the ballpark from watching the game for free), had the unintended 
result of the Athletics alienating their fan base in Philadelphia.[3] Still, 
the Phillies would not win a World Series until 1980, the last of the "original 
16" teams to win a series and 25 years after the A's left town, during 
which they would win three more World Series championships before the Phillies 
broke through. In New York City, the Yankees had long passed the New York 
Giants in popularity, though the Giants remained popular and the Brooklyn 
Dodgers were gaining popularity as well. Chicago would see the Cubs as 
roughly equal in popularity to the White Sox despite their constant losing 
seasons and the Curse of the Billy Goat allegedly affecting the Cubs from 
making the Fall Classic from 1945 to 2016. This can likely be attributed 
to the after effects of the Black Sox Scandal of 1919 still apparent on 
the White Sox, who on several occasions nearly moved out of the Windy City. 
However the White Sox have not threatened, nor been considered a candidate 
for relocation, since the opening of new Comiskey Park (now U.S. Cellular 
Field) in 1991, with their 2005 World Series victory further cementing 
their future in Chicago. The first moves were initially lateral moves. 
As they were tied down to slow railroad timetables, the first teams that 
moved stayed within Major League Baseball historical geographical core: 
the Northeast and upper Midwest. The first move was the Boston Braves, 
who relocated (for 1953) to Milwaukee, home of their top farm team, the 
Milwaukee Brewers. The City of Milwaukee fell in love with the Braves, 
with fan support of the team high making the move highly profitable. The 
Milwaukee Braves would remain popular until the team relocated to Atlanta 
in 1966. Other owners took notice and began their relocation threats as 
well. The St. Louis Browns moved to Baltimore for 1954, becoming the Baltimore 
Orioles. The Philadelphia Athletics moved to Kansas City for 1955, briefly 
displacing the Cardinals as the westernmost town in the majors. Save for 
some controversy with the Athletics, these moves were not controversial, 
as these were three of the least successful teams in the majors, although 
the Browns and Braves had both won league championships in the 1940s. Baseball 
experts consider Walter O'Malley to be "perhaps the most influential owner 
of baseball's early expansion era".[4] Following the 1957 Major League 
Baseball season, he moved the Dodgers to Los Angeles.[5] For years O'Malley 
had tried to secure a site for a new stadium for the Dodgers in Brooklyn 
to no avail. The Dodgers' home at the time, Ebbets Field, was old and obsolete. 
Despite the Dodgers dominating the league, attendance at Ebbets Field dwindled, 
likely because of its age and the difficulty of accessing the stadium by 
car. Another explanation for the decline in attendance is the migration 
to the suburbs. People living in the suburbs did not want to attend games 
at night in the inner city.[6] Frustrated, he began to look elsewhere. 
With the post–World War II population shifts south and west and the rise 
in transcontinental airplane service, many West Coast cities were actively 
pursuing Major League Baseball to relocate there; among them Los Angeles 
and San Francisco. Rosalind Wyman, the then-head of the Los Angeles Chamber 
of Commerce, was one of those championing a major league team in Los Angeles. 
Beginning in 1955, with the city's blessing, she began to solicit several 
major league teams, including the Dodgers, with the idea that they move 
to Los Angeles. Wyman and city officials attended the 1956 World Series 
between the Dodgers and the Yankees, at Ebbets Field, initially to meet 
with Washington Senators owner Calvin Griffith who was attending the game, 
to convince Griifith to move his ailing Senators to Los Angeles. O'Malley, 
upon hearing of the planned meeting, immediately summoned Wyman for a meeting 
and earnestly began negotiations with her expressing his intent to have 
a new modern stadium built for the team, a request Wyman and city officials 
assured O'Malley would be no problem. Initially O'Malley planned to use 
his negotiations with Los Angeles as a ploy with New York builder Robert 
Moses, who was preventing O'Malley from obtaining the site he was looking 
for in Brooklyn for his new stadium. However, as negotiation with Moses 
deteriorated—Moses wanted the Dodgers to move to a new stadium site in 
Flushing Meadows–Corona Park in Queens, which eventually became Shea Stadium—O'Malley 
realized that a deal with Los Angeles began to seem more of a reality. 
In addition, in Los Angeles, the Dodgers would be given land at Chavez 
Ravine free of charge to build a stadium, which would eventually become 
Dodger Stadium.[6] At the same time New York Giants owner Horace Stoneham 
was considering a move for the Giants. The Giants' aging home, the Polo 
Grounds, was becoming dilapidated by the mid-fifties, leading to a drop 
off in attendance for the team. Stoneham, like O'Malley, was also unable 
to secure a new stadium site for the team and initially was looking to 
move the Giants to Minneapolis, home to the Giants' top farm team, the 
Minneapolis Millers.[7] O'Malley invited San Francisco Mayor George Christopher 
to New York to meet with Stoneham and convinced him to join O'Malley on 
the West Coast at the end of the 1957 season, thus bringing the two teams' 
New York rivalry out to California. O'Malley needed another team to go 
west with him, for had he moved out west alone, the St. Louis Cardinals—1,600 mi 
(2,575 km) away—[8][9] would have been the closest National League team. 
The joint move would make West Coast road trips economical for visiting 
teams.[10] Since the meetings occurred during the 1957 season and against 
the wishes of Commissioner of Baseball Ford Frick, there was media gamesmanship.[11] 
When O'Malley moved the Dodgers from Brooklyn, the story transcended the 
world of sport and he found himself on the cover of Time magazine.[12] 
The cover art for the issue was created by sports cartoonist Willard Mullin,[13] 
long noted for his caricature of the "Brooklyn Bum" that personified the 
team. The dual moves broke the hearts of New York's National League fans 
but ultimately were successful for both franchises—and for Major League 
Baseball.[5] The move was an immediate success as well, because the Dodgers 
set a major-league, single-game attendance record in their first home appearance 
with 78,672 fans.[10] The moves received considerable controversy: the 
loss of the Dodgers was especially painful because the team was one of 
the last vestiges of Brooklyn's status as a city in its own right prior 
to 1898. Though New York still had the Yankees in the American League, 
the loss of a National League team in the nation's largest market drew 
the ire of National League fans to the point that the New York Mets were 
eventually added as an expansion team, beginning play in 1962. Ironically, 
the Yankees' attendance actually declined slightly in the years immediately 
following the Dodgers' and Giants' departure. Both the Braves and Athletics 
did not stay in their locations for very long. The Braves, despite success 
in Milwaukee, moved to Atlanta in 1966 while the Athletics set up shop 
in Oakland for 1968. Both markets would eventually get replacement teams 
in the Milwaukee Brewers and Kansas City Royals, respectively. The Braves 
would not have consistent success in Atlanta until the 1990s, while the 
A's were successful during several periods thereafter. Aside from the Seattle 
Pilots moving to Milwaukee after one year (to become the Brewers), the 
other relocations since have involved Washington, D. C. The original Washington 
Senators moved to the Twin Cities region to become the Minnesota Twins 
(beginning play as such in 1961), and the expansion Senators that replaced 
them moved to Arlington, Texas (in the Dallas-Fort Worth region) to become 
the Texas Rangers (beginning play as such in 1972). Several relocation 
threats would be made by the Giants, White Sox, and Pirates (in the latter's 
case, as a result of the Pittsburgh drug trials); however, none would happen, 
and all three markets to which these teams threatened to move (Toronto, 
Denver, and the Tampa Bay Area) would later receive expansion teams of 
their own. There were no more moves until 2005, when MLB moved the Montreal 
Expos to the American capital, where the Expos became the Washington Nationals. 
Montreal is the only city which has lost a major league franchise since 
1901 without eventually getting another team. This is not counting the 
short-lived Federal League of 1914 and 1915; however, all Federal League 
markets save two—Buffalo and Indianapolis—either had a franchise in one 
of the two established leagues at the time or got one later. As of 2016, 
MLB officials have expressed in the return of baseball to Montreal.[14] 
Although MLB's spread beyond the Northeast and Midwest began with relocation 
(to Kansas City, Los Angeles, and San Francisco), it continued through 
the establishment of new teams. The first round of expansion led to new 
MLB locations in Minneapolis (1961) and Houston (1962), a second team in 
Los Angeles (1961), and a second team in New York to replace the Dodgers 
and Giants (1962). By 1977, through a combination of further relocations 
and expansions, there were six teams on the Pacific Coast (San Diego, two 
in the Los Angeles metro area, two in the San Francisco Bay Area, and Seattle), 
three in the South (Atlanta, Houston, and Dallas/Ft. Worth), and two in 
Canada (Montreal and Toronto). A final round of expansion in the 1990s 
placed two teams in Florida and two teams in the Mountain West region (Denver 
and Phoenix). Most relocations during this time period did not involve 
a change in ownership. This means that the main economic incentive for 
the MLB to expand was not large offers from prospective buyers in western 
cities. Because the owners mainly retained control over their teams after 
relocation, there must be another economic benefit. The expansion occurred 
because franchise owners saw higher profit potential in the other location.[15] 
Expansion of MLB to all cities capable of supporting a franchise in the 
sport is economically beneficial for the league as a whole. This reduces 
the possibility of the formation of a rival league, a problem that baseball 
dealt with in its early history. Monopoly control of the sport is essential 
to many aspects of player contracts, drafts and other parts of the game. 
Baseball's anti-trust exemption was important in the development and expansion 
of the league.[15] In MLB, all local TV revenue is assigned to the home 
team. The league has complex revenue sharing rules, but data shows that 
media revenue was an economic pull factor for the franchise relocations. 
The yearly gains in media revenue associated with the relocations are as 
follows: Boston to Milwaukee (−$175,000),[15] St. Louis to Baltimore (+$257,000),[15] 
Philadelphia to Kansas City (−$90,000),[15] Washington to Minnesota (+$400,000),[15] 
Milwaukee to Atlanta (+$800,000),[15] Kansas City to Oakland (+$800,000),[15] 
Seattle to Milwaukee (−$150,000),[15] Washington to Texas (no change).[15] 
Data is unavailable for the relocation of the Dodgers and the Giants. Based 
on this data, TV revenues influenced the franchise move of Washington, 
Milwaukee, and Kansas City and perhaps St. Louis. TV revenues have played 
an important role in roughly half of the moves that have taken place. James 
Quirk argues that under a TV sharing arrangement similar to the National 
Football League, or even under a split with visiting teams, the TV lure 
would be much less of an incentive for moves.[15] The protection of the 
league from competition and economic benefits of media revenues are direct 
economic pull factors. Other advancements in the U.S. during this time 
also had an effect on the ability and desire of teams to relocate and the 
league to expand. The expansion of MLB coincided with an increase in the 
ease of travel by commercial jets, making it easier for players to fly 
across the continent. This is important given that when Water O'Malley 
moved his Dodgers to Los Angeles, the closest team, other than the San 
Francisco Giants, was in St. Louis. The expansion of baseball is also accompanied 
by the increase in popularity of television. Baseball expanded, in large 
part, because interest in the sport grew leading up to and during the 1950s 
and 1960s. In home televisions allowed for this increase in popularity 
and helped make New York's pastime, America's pastime. From 1903 to 1952, 
a period of 50 years, no major league baseball team moved to a different 
city. From 1953 to 1972, a period of 20 years, there were ten relocations. 
In the 44 years since then, only one team has moved. (The Montreal Expos 
