The National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum is an American history museum 
and hall of fame, located at 25 Main Street in Cooperstown, New York, and 
operated by private interests. It serves as the central point for the study 
of the history of baseball in the United States and beyond, displays baseball-related 
artifacts and exhibits, and honors those who have excelled in playing, 
managing, and serving the sport. The Hall's motto is "Preserving History, 
Honoring Excellence, Connecting Generations." The word Cooperstown is often 
used as shorthand (or a metonym) for the National Baseball Hall of Fame 
and Museum. The Hall of Fame was founded in 1939 by Stephen Carlton Clark, 
the owner of a local hotel. Clark had sought to bring tourists to a city 
hurt by the Great Depression, which reduced the local tourist trade, and 
Prohibition, which devastated the local hops industry. A new building was 
constructed, and the Hall of Fame was dedicated on June 12, 1939. (Clark's 
granddaughter, Jane Forbes Clark, is the current chairman of the Board 
of Directors.) The erroneous claim that U.S. Civil War hero Abner Doubleday 
invented baseball in Cooperstown was instrumental in the early marketing 
of the Hall. An expanded library and research facility opened in 1994.[citation 
needed] Dale Petroskey became the organization's president in 1999. In 
2002, the Hall launched Baseball As America, a traveling exhibit that toured 
ten American museums over six years. The Hall of Fame has since also sponsored 
educational programming on the Internet to bring the Hall of Fame to schoolchildren 
who might not visit. The Hall and Museum completed a series of renovations 
in spring 2005. The Hall of Fame also presents an annual exhibit at FanFest 
at the Major League Baseball All-Star Game. Jeff Idelson replaced Petroskey 
as president on April 16, 2008.[2] He had been acting as president since 
March 25, 2008, when Petroskey was forced to resign for having "failed 
to exercise proper fiduciary responsibility" and making "judgments that 
were not in the best interest of the National Baseball Hall of Fame and 
Museum."[3] In 2012, Congress passed and President Barack Obama signed 
a law ordering the United States Mint to produce and sell commemorative, 
non-circulating coins to benefit the private, non-profit Hall.[4] The bill, 
House Bill H.R. 2527, was introduced in the United States House of Representatives 
by Rep. Richard Hanna, a Republican from New York, and passed the House 
on October 26, 2011.[5] The coins, which depict baseball gloves and balls, 
are the first concave designs produced by the Mint. The mintage included 
50,000 gold coins, 400,000 silver coins, and 750,000 clad (Nickel-Copper) 
coins. The Mint released them on March 27, 2014, and the gold and silver 
editions quickly sold out. The Hall receives money from surcharges included 
in the sale price: a total of $9.5 million if all the coins are sold.[6] 
Among baseball fans, "Hall of Fame" means not only the museum and facility 
in Cooperstown, New York, but the pantheon of players, managers, umpires, 
executives, and pioneers who have been enshrined in the Hall. The first 
five men elected were Ty Cobb, Babe Ruth, Honus Wagner, Christy Mathewson 
and Walter Johnson, chosen in 1936; roughly 20 more were selected before 
the entire group was inducted at the Hall's 1939 opening. As of January 
2016[update], 312 people had been elected to the Hall of Fame, including 
217 former Major League Baseball players, 35 Negro league baseball players 
and executives, 22 managers, 10 umpires, and 28 pioneers, executives, and 
organizers. 114 members of the Hall of Fame have been inducted posthumously, 
including four who died after their selection was announced. Of the 35 
Negro league members, 29 were inducted posthumously, including all 24 selected 
since the 1990s. The Hall of Fame includes one female member, Effa Manley.[7] 
The newest inductees, enshrined on July 24, 2016, are players Mike Piazza 
and Ken Griffey Jr.[8] In addition to honoring Hall of Fame inductees, 
the National Baseball Hall of Fame has presented 38 men with the Ford C. 
Frick Award for excellence in broadcasting,[9] 65 with the J. G. Taylor 
Spink Award for excellence in baseball writing,[10] and three with the 
Buck O'Neil Lifetime Achievement Award for contributions to baseball.[11] 
While Frick and Spink Award honorees are not members of the Hall of Fame, 
they are recognized in an exhibit in the Hall of Fame's library.[12] O'Neil 
Award honorees are also not Hall of Fame members, but are listed alongside 
a permanent statue of the award's namesake and first recipient, Buck O'Neil, 
that stands at the Hall.[11] Players are currently inducted into the Hall 
of Fame through election by either the Baseball Writers' Association of 
America (or BBWAA), or the Veterans Committee,[13] which now consists of 
four subcommittees, each of which considers and votes for candidates from 
a separate era of baseball. Five years after retirement, any player with 
10 years of major league experience who passes a screening committee (which 
removes from consideration players of clearly lesser qualification) is 
eligible to be elected by BBWAA members with 10 years' membership or more 
who also have been actively covering MLB at any time in the 10 years preceding 
the election (the latter requirement was added for the 2016 election).[14] 
From a final ballot typically including 25–40 candidates, each writer may 
vote for up to 10 players; until the late 1950s, voters were advised to 
cast votes for the maximum 10 candidates. Any player named on 75% or more 
of all ballots cast is elected. A player who is named on fewer than 5% 
of ballots is dropped from future elections. In some instances, the screening 
committee had restored their names to later ballots, but in the mid-1990s, 
dropped players were made permanently ineligible for Hall of Fame consideration, 
even by the Veterans Committee. A 2001 change in the election procedures 
restored the eligibility of these dropped players; while their names will 
not appear on future BBWAA ballots, they may be considered by the Veterans 
Committee.[15] Players receiving 5% or more of the votes but fewer than 
75% are reconsidered annually until a maximum of ten years of eligibility 
(lowered from fifteen years for the 2015 election).[16] Under special circumstances, 
certain players may be deemed eligible for induction even though they have 
not met all requirements. Addie Joss was elected in 1978, despite only 
playing nine seasons before he died of meningitis. Additionally, if an 
otherwise eligible player dies before his fifth year of retirement, then 
that player may be placed on the ballot at the first election at least 
six months after his death. Roberto Clemente's induction in 1973 set the 
precedent when the writers chose to put him up for consideration after 
his death on New Year's Eve, 1972. Z is for Zenith The summit of fame. 
These men are up there. These men are the game. The five-year waiting period 
was established in 1954 after an evolutionary process. In 1936 all players 
were eligible, including active ones. From the 1937 election until the 
1945 election, there was no waiting period, so any retired player was eligible, 
but writers were discouraged from voting for current major leaguers. Since 
there was no formal rule preventing a writer from casting a ballot for 
an active player, the scribes did not always comply with the informal guideline; 
Joe DiMaggio received a vote in 1945, for example. From the 1946 election 
until the 1954 election, an official one-year waiting period was in effect. 
(DiMaggio, for example, retired after the 1951 season and was first eligible 
in the 1953 election.) The modern rule establishing a wait of five years 
was passed in 1954, although an exception was made for Joe DiMaggio because 
of his high level of previous support, thus permitting him to be elected 
within four years of his retirement. Contrary to popular belief, no formal 
exception was made for Lou Gehrig (other than to hold a special one-man 
election for him): at the time, there was no waiting period at that time, 
and Gehrig met all other qualifications, so he would have been eligible 
for the next regular election after he retired during the 1939 season. 
However, the BBWAA decided to hold a special election at the 1939 Winter 
Meetings in Cincinnati, specifically to elect Gehrig (most likely because 
it was known that he was terminally ill, making it uncertain that he would 
live long enough to see another election). Nobody else was on that ballot, 
and the numerical results have never been made public. Since no elections 
were held in 1940 or 1941, the special election permitted Gehrig to enter 
the Hall while still alive. If a player fails to be elected by the BBWAA 
within 20 years of his retirement from active play, he may be selected 
by the Veterans Committee. Following changes to the election process for 
that body made in 2010 and 2016, it is now responsible for electing all 
otherwise eligible candidates who are not eligible for the BBWAA ballot—both 
long-retired players and non-playing personnel (managers, umpires, and 
executives). From 2011 through 2016, each candidate could be considered 
once every three years;[18] now, the frequency depends on the era in which 
an individual made his greatest contributions.[19] A more complete discussion 
of the new process is available below. From 2008 to 2010, following changes 
made by the Hall in July 2007, the main Veterans Committee, then made up 
of living Hall of Famers, voted only on players whose careers began in 
1943 or later. These changes also established three separate committees 
to select other figures: Players of the Negro Leagues have also been considered 
at various times, beginning in 1971. In 2005 the Hall completed a study 
on African American players between the late 19th century and the integration 
of the major leagues in 1947, and conducted a special election for such 
players in February 2006; seventeen figures from the Negro Leagues were 
chosen in that election, in addition to the eighteen previously selected. 
Following the 2010 changes, Negro Leagues figures will primarily be considered 
for induction alongside other figures from the 1871–1946 era, called the 
"Pre-Integration Era" by the Hall. Predictably, the selection process catalyzes 
endless debate among baseball fans over the merits of various candidates. 
Even players elected years ago remain the subjects of discussions as to 
whether they deserved election. For example, Bill James' book Whatever 
Happened to the Hall of Fame? goes into detail about who he believes does 
and does not belong in the Hall of Fame. The actions and composition of 
the Veterans Committee have been at times controversial, with occasional 
selections of contemporaries and teammates of the committee members over 
seemingly more worthy candidates.[21][22][23][24][25] In 2001, the Veterans 
Committee was reformed to comprise the living Hall of Fame members and 
other honorees.[26] The revamped Committee held three election, in 2003 
and 2007, for both players and non-players, and in 2005 for players only. 
No individual was elected in that time, sparking criticism among some observers 
who expressed doubt whether the new Veterans Committee would ever elect 
a player. The Committee members, most of whom were Hall members, were accused 
of being reluctant to elect new candidates in the hope of heightening the 
value of their own selection. After no one was selected for the third consecutive 
election in 2007, Hall of Famer Mike Schmidt noted, "The same thing happens 
every year. The current members want to preserve the prestige as much as 
possible, and are unwilling to open the doors."[15] In 2007, the committee 
and its selection processes were again reorganized; the main committee 
then included all living members of the Hall, and voted on a reduced number 
of candidates from among players whose careers began in 1943 or later. 
Separate committees, including sportswriters and broadcasters, would select 
umpires, managers and executives, as well as players from earlier eras. 
In the first election to be held under the 2007 revisions, two managers 
and three executives were elected in December 2007 as part of the 2008 
election process. The next Veterans Committee elections for players were 
held in December 2008 as part of the 2009 election process; the main committee 
did not select a player, while the panel for pre–World War II players elected 
Joe Gordon in its first and ultimately only vote. The main committee voted 
as part of the election process for inductions in odd-numbered years, while 
the pre-World War II panel would vote every five years, and the panel for 
umpires, managers, and executives voted as part of the election process 
for inductions in even-numbered years. Further changes to the Veterans 
Committee process were announced by the Hall on July 26, 2010, effective 
with the 2011 election.[18] All individuals eligible for induction but 
not eligible for BBWAA consideration were considered on a single ballot, 
grouped by the following eras in which they made their greatest contributions: 
The Hall used the BBWAA's Historical Overview Committee to formulate the 
ballots for each era, consisting of 12 individuals for the Expansion Era 
and 10 for the other eras. The Hall's board of directors selected a committee 
of 16 voters for each era, made up of Hall of Famers, executives, baseball 
historians, and media members. Each committee met and voted at the Baseball 
Winter Meetings once every three years. The Expansion Era committee held 
its first vote in 2010 for 2011 induction, with longtime general manager 
Pat Gillick becoming the first individual elected under the new procedure. 
The Golden Era committee voted in 2011 for the induction class of 2012, 
with Ron Santo becoming the first player elected under the new procedure. 
The Pre-Integration Era committee voted in 2012 for the induction class 
of 2013, electing three figures. Subsequent elections rotated among the 
three committees in that order through the 2016 election. In July 2016, 
however, the Hall of Fame announced a restructuring of the timeframes to 
be considered, with a much greater emphasis on modern eras. Four new committees 
were established: All committees' ballots will include 10 candidates. While 
there was previously a one-year waiting period after elimination from annual 
BBWAA consideration, there is now no waiting period. At least one committee 
will convene each December as part of the election process for the following 
calendar year's induction ceremony. The Early Baseball committee will convene 
only in years ending in 0 (2020, 2030). The Golden Days committee convenes 
only in years ending in 0 and 5 (2020, 2025). The remaining two committees 
will convene twice every 5 years. More specifically, the Today's Game and 
Modern Baseball committees will alternate their meetings in that order, 
skipping years in which either the Early Baseball or Golden Days committee 
meets. This means that in the next two 5-year cycles, the Today's Game 
committee will meet in 2016, 2018, 2021, and 2023, while the Modern Baseball 
committee will meet in 2017, 2019, 2022 and 2024. Additionally, the Hall 
of Fame has modified the criteria under which active executives can be 
considered for induction. All active executives age 70 or older may now 
have their careers reviewed as part of the Era Committee balloting process, 
regardless of the position they hold in an organization, and regardless 
of whether their body of work has been completed. Previously, active executives 
65 years or older were eligible for consideration.[19] While the text on 
a player's or manager's plaque lists all teams for which the inductee was 
a member in that specific role, inductees are usually depicted wearing 
the cap of a specific team, though in a few cases, like umpires, they wear 
caps without logos. (Executives are not depicted wearing caps.) Additionally, 
as of 2015, inductee biographies on the Hall's website for all players 
and managers, and executives who were associated with specific teams, list 
a "primary team", which does not necessarily match the cap logo. The Hall 
selects the logo "based on where that player makes his most indelible mark."[27] 
Although the Hall always made the final decision on which logo was shown, 
until 2001 the Hall deferred to the wishes of players or managers whose 
careers were linked with multiple teams. Some examples of honorees associated 
with multiple teams are the following: In all of the above cases, the "primary 
team" is the team for which the inductee spent the largest portion of his 
career except for Ryan, whose primary team is listed as the Angels despite 
playing one fewer season for that team than for the Astros. In 2001, the 
Hall of Fame decided to change the policy on cap logo selection, as a result 
of rumors that some teams were offering compensation, such as number retirement, 
money, or organizational jobs, in exchange for the cap designation. (For 
example, though Wade Boggs denied the claims, some media reports had said 
that his contract with the Tampa Bay Devil Rays required him to request 
depiction in the Hall of Fame as a Devil Ray.)[28] The Hall decided that 
it would no longer defer to the inductee, though the player's wishes would 
be considered, when deciding on the logo to appear on the plaque. Newly 
elected members affected by the change include the following: According 
to the Hall of Fame, approximately 300,000 visitors enter the museum each 
year,[1] and the running total has surpassed 14 million. These visitors 
see only a fraction of its 38,000 artifacts, 2.6 million library items 
(such as newspaper clippings and photos) and 130,000 baseball cards.[1] 
The Hall has seen a noticeable decrease in attendance in recent years. 
A 2013 story on ESPN.com about the village of Cooperstown and its relation 
to the game partially linked the reduced attendance with Cooperstown Dreams 
Park, a youth baseball complex about 5 miles (8 km) away in the town of 
Hartwick. The 22 fields at Dreams Park currently draw 17,000 players each 
summer for a week of intensive play; while the complex includes housing 
for the players, their parents and grandparents must stay elsewhere. According 
to the story,[34] Prior to Dreams Park, a room might be filled for a week 
by several sets of tourists. Now, that room will be taken by just one family 
for the week, and that family may only go into Cooperstown and the Hall 
of Fame once. While there are other contributing factors (the recession 
and high gas prices among them), the Hall's attendance has tumbled since 
Dreams Park opened. The Hall drew 383,000 visitors in 1999. It drew 262,000 
last year. A controversy erupted in 1982, when it emerged that some historic 
items given to the Hall had been sold on the collectibles market. The items 
had been lent to the Baseball Commissioner's office, gotten mixed up with 
other property owned by the Commissioner's office and employees of the 
office, and moved to the garage of Joe Reichler, an assistant to Commissioner 
Bowie Kuhn, who sold the items to resolve his personal financial difficulties. 
Under pressure from the New York Attorney General, the Commissioner's Office 
made reparations, but the negative publicity damaged the Hall of Fame's 
reputation, and made it more difficult for it to solicit donations.[38] 
Following the banning of Pete Rose from MLB, the selection rules for the 
Baseball Hall of Fame were modified to prevent the induction of anyone 
on Baseball's permanent suspension list, such as Rose or Shoeless Joe Jackson. 
Many others have been barred from participation in MLB, but none have Hall 
of Fame qualifications on the level of Jackson or Rose. Jackson and Rose 
were both banned from MLB for life for actions related to gambling on their 
own teams—Jackson was determined to have cooperated with those who conspired 
to lose the 1919 World Series intentionally, and Rose voluntarily accepted 
a permanent spot on the ineligible list in return for MLB's promise to 
make no official finding in relation to alleged betting on the Cincinnati 
Reds when he was their manager in the 1980s. (Baseball's Rule 21, prominently 
posted in every clubhouse locker room, mandates permanent banishment from 
the MLB for having a gambling interest of any sort on a game in which a 
player or manager is directly involved.) Rose later admitted that he bet 
on the Reds in his 2004 autobiography. Baseball fans are deeply split on 
the issue of whether these two should remain banned or have their punishment 
revoked. Writer Bill James, though he advocates Rose eventually making 
it into the Hall of Fame, compared the people who want to put Jackson in 
the Hall of Fame to "those women who show up at murder trials wanting to 
