In the "Original 16" era (1901–60), there were eight teams in each league 
and teams in each league played each other 22 times a season.[1] With the 
second American League incarnation of the Washington Senators (now the 
Texas Rangers) and Los Angeles Angels (now the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim) 
entering play as expansion teams in 1961, MLB increased the total number 
of games American League teams played to 162, which meant teams would play 
each other 18 times a season.[1] The National League did not implement 
this until the following year when the New York Mets and Houston Colt .45s 
(now the Houston Astros) entered play.[1] In 1969, with the San Diego Padres, 
Seattle Pilots, Kansas City Royals, and Montreal Expos entering play as 
expansion teams, MLB split both leagues into two divisions with six teams 
each.[2] Teams played a total of 90 intra-divisional games, playing teams 
within the division 18 times each and 72 inter-divisional games, playing 
each team in the other division 12 times.[3][4] However, in 1977, the addition 
of the Seattle Mariners and Toronto Blue Jays reduced the number of intra-divisional 
games American League teams played to 78, as each team would play each 
team within the division 13 times.[4] However, they still played each team 
in the other division 12 times, but the total number of inter-divisional 
games increased to 84.[4] The National League did not institute this until 
1993, when the Florida Marlins and Colorado Rockies entered play.[4] In 
1994, MLB split each league into three divisions,[5] but kept the 1993 
format in scheduling.[6] In 1997, with the MLB adopting interleague play,[7] 
the schedules were changed.[8] The schedule for interleague play comprised 
84 three-game series, namely six series (18 games) for each of fourteen 
AL teams and as many as six for each of 16 NL teams. MLB changed its scheduling 
format in 2001, further intensifying division matchups throughout the league.[9] 
The new "unbalanced schedule" allowed for additional games in each season 
between divisional rivals, replacing additional series with teams outside 
the division.[10] Due to the change, division rivals now played each other 
17 or more times each season.[11] The scheduling drew criticism both when 
it was enacted and after the fact, with some analysts even positing that 
the unbalanced schedule hurt intra-divisional play.[12] With the Astros 
moving to the American League West in 2013, MLB changed its scheduling 
formula as a result of each division having five teams.[13] Teams play 
a total of 76 intra-divisional games, playing teams within the division 
19 times each, and six or seven games against other teams in their leagues 
and 20 interleague games.[13] The move of the Astros led to interleague 
play throughout the season.[13] The number of interleague games against 
natural rivals was reduced from six to four.[13] The Orioles-Blue Jays 
rivalry is a more under the radar rivalry but in recent years it has been 
rekindled by a series of incidents namely involving Blue Jays slugger José 
Bautista and Orioles pitcher Darren O'Day. The Red Sox–Yankees rivalry 
is one of the oldest, most famous and fiercest rivalries in American sports.[17][18][19] 
For more than 100 years, the Boston Red Sox and New York Yankees have been 
intense rivals.[11] The rivalry is often a heated subject of conversation 
in the Northeastern United States.[20] Since the inception of the wild 
card team and an added Division Series, the AL East rivals have squared 
off in the American League Championship Series three times, with the Yankees 
winning in 1999 and 2003 and the Sox winning in 2004.[21][22] In addition, 
the teams have twice met in the last regular-season series of a season 
to decide the league title, in 1904 (when the Red Sox won) and 1949 (when 
the Yankees won).[21] The teams also finished tied for first in 1978, when 
the Yankees won a high-profile one-game playoff for the division title.[23] 
The 1978 division race is memorable for the Red Sox having held a 14-game 
lead over the Yankees more than halfway through the season.[24] Similarly, 
the 2004 ALCS is famous for the Yankees leading 3–0 and ultimately losing 
a best-of-7 series.[25] The Red Sox comeback is the only time in baseball 
history to date that a team has come back from a 3–0 deficit to win a series.[26] 
The rivalry is often termed the "greatest rivalry in all of sports."[27] 
Games between the two teams often generate a great deal of interest and 
get extensive media coverage, including being broadcast on national television.[28][29] 
In the stands it is very common for Yankees fans and Red Sox fans to taunt 
each other and more than occasionally get into fistfights, so security 
at both Yankee Stadium and Fenway Park is heavy when either team comes 
to town. While not as nationally famous as some matchups, the Red Sox and 
the Tampa Bay Rays also have a rivalry that has been the focus of some 
memorable incidents plus, the two teams met in the 2008 ALCS with the Rays 
winning the series en route to their first World Series appearance: This 
rivalry has recently come to true form (as in the case of 2012 when both 
The Sox and The Tigers were competing for the division crown) and mirrors 
the age-old "Chicago vs. Detroit" rivalry (Bears–Lions, Blackhawks–Red 
Wings, and Bulls–Pistons) and has become one of each team's signature rivalries 
in recent years. Fuel was added to the fire in the off-season of 2015–16 
when Alex Avila (former Tigers catcher) signed with the White Sox, despite 
his father being the general manager in Detroit.[36] The rivalry has also 
shared its fair share of skirmishes: Chicago and Minnesota share many sport 
rivalries (see; Bears-Vikings rivalry & Blackhawks-Wild rivalry, and the 
former Blackhawks-North Stars Rivalry) the two teams combined for 9 out 
of 10 AL Central division championships in the 2000s (White Sox with 3 
and Twins with 6), and even more hatred was added to it in 2005, only the 
second year in the 2000s that the White Sox beat the Twins out for first, 
the White Sox won the world series with former Twins catcher A. J. Pierzynski 
(who had received boos from Twins fans when he was in a White Sox uniform 
before). The two teams played in an extremely close 163rd game for the 
fate of the division in 2008 that ended in a White Sox victory of 1–0 and 
an AL Central Championship, the Twins held the upperhand for most of the 
2000s, with the Twins knocking them out of first or playoff contention 
as well (2002, 2004, 2010, etc.); it has been cited as one of the Top 7 
rivalries in baseball history.[44] There have been times when White Sox 
players have called out Twins players after the Twins won the division 
from them late in the season; one of the most famous is in 2003, after 
The Twins took the division by 7 games and White Sox closer outed the Twins 
by saying "I honestly don't think the Twins can play at the level they 
did last year. They had a lot of the, quote, 'baseball bounces' last year. 
They had an awful lot of those happen. I'm not taking away from their talent, 
because they had a lot of talented players, but they had every single bounce 
go their way. It was almost like they never had any bad luck. They only 
had good luck. ... Unless they have some deal with the devil up there, 
I don't see that happening again."[45] and especially after former White 
Sox manager Ozzie Guillén gave the team the famous "Piranhas" nickname 
in 2010, after some team-to-team heckling during the 2010 division race.[46][47] 
In 2006, The White Sox were reigning World Champions, and seemed on their 
way back to the playoffs, however they held a 6–12 record against The Twins, 
who went on to win the division. In 2016, with the White Sox sitting very 
deep in first place and the Twins on the opposite end of the division's 
fortunes, the White Sox were in the process of sweeping the Twins for the 
second consecutive series when Twins pitcher Trevor May hit Jose Abreu 
(the White Sox all-star slugger) in the ribs, the benches cleared in a 
brawl and White Sox pitcher Chris Sale responded the next night by hitting 
two Twins batters in the first inning.[48] The Tigers-Indians spawns from 
a number of factors, both teams were part of the old AL East before moving 
to the AL Central and are both geographically near each other and is sometimes 
point to as the MLB's outlet to the Ohio State-Michigan rivalry, the rivalry 
has had its up and downs. During the 2013 division race, the Indians fans 
started chanting "Detroit's bankrupt".[49] This rivalry is sometimes considered 
a replacement of the old Blue Jays-Tigers rivalry, the fans have a hatred 
for each other and is one of baseball's promising new rivalries. The rivalry 
has had its physical moments as well, on September 19, 2008, Tigers batter 
Gary Sheffield and Indians pitcher Fausto Carmona engaged in a brawl.[50] 
The rivalry between the White Sox and the Indians stems from similar fortunes 
in trying to capture a title (The Indians have been without one since 1948, 
it took the White Sox 88 years to win one), close battles for division 
supremacy, and odd occurrences at the games they play each other in, some 
of which are; ·Throughout the late 90's the Indians finished in first, 
leaving the White Sox (led by Hall of Famer Frank Thomas) in second. The 
Lone Star Series (also, Silver Boot Series) is a Major League Baseball 
rivalry featuring Texas' two major league franchises, the Texas Rangers 
and Houston Astros. It is an outgrowth of the "natural rivalry" established 
by MLB as part of interleague play as the Rangers are a member of the American 
League and the Astros were a member of the National League until 2012. 
During interleague play, the winner of the 6-game series was awarded the 
Silver Boot. A 30-inch (760 mm) tall display of a size-15 cowboy boot cast 
in silver, complete with a custom, handmade spur. If the series was split 
(3-to-3), the winner was the club which scored the most runs over the course 
of the series. In 2013, the Astros joined the American League West with 
the Rangers and changed their rivalry from an interleague to an intra-division 
rivalry, the Astros played their first game in the American League against 
the Rangers on Sunday Night Baseball that season. In 2015, both teams made 
the playoffs and were in a tight division race during most of the season.[53] 
The Rangers and Angels rivalry has been said to develop over a domination 
in the division between the two teams, and also in recent years more animosity 
between the two teams due to the amount of former players from each team 
playing for the division rival. Angels players such as Mike Napoli, Darren 
Oliver, Vladimir Guerrero, and Texas player C. J. Wilson are all acquisitions 
the two division rivals made of former rival players. In 2012 C. J. Wilson 
played a joke on former teammate Mike Napoli in tweeting his phone number, 
causing Napoli to exchange words with Wilson.[54] The feuds go back to 
Angels Adam Kennedy and Rangers Gerald Laird arguing leading to punches 
being thrown multiple times causing small fights between the teams in the 
past.[55] The two teams each had a perfect game against each other, including 
Mike Witt in 1984 at Arlington Stadium and Kenny Rogers in 1994 at The 
Ballpark in Arlington. The most significant Angels rivalry is with the 
Red Sox; one that has developed with many strange events, heated matchups 
in both regular season and the playoffs that regularly included fights, 
late inning rallies, and bad relations. The Red Sox and Angels rivalry 
dates back to Angels franchise founder Gene Autry making a bet with former 
Red Sox owner Tom Yawkey that Autry's new expansion team would win more 
games than Yawkey's Red Sox. In 1964 Angels pitcher Bob Lee suffered a 
season-ending injury of a broken hand after trying to punch a Red Sox fan, 
which ultimately cost him an ERA title. In 1965 the first of many fights 
between the two clubs occurred when pitchers Dean Chance and Dave Morehead 
hit batters which caused a small 50-man free for all on the field that 
resulted in the bullpen fence at Dodger Stadium being broken down and the 
riot squad being called. On August 17, 1967, Red Sox all-star outfielder 
Tony Conigliaro was beaned in the eye by a fastball, resulting in vision 
problems that caused him to miss the final month and a half of that Red 
Sox pennant winning season as well as the entire next season, and ultimately 
led to his early retirement. The most famous Angels playoff collapse was 
versus the Red Sox in the 1986 American League Championship Series (ALCS). 
The Angels were leading the Red Sox 3 games to 1 in the series and leading 
by three runs with two out in the ninth inning of Game 5 and had two strikes 
on the batter when pitcher Donnie Moore gave up a 3-run home run to Dave 
Henderson, and the Red Sox went on to win that game. The Red Sox then won 
the next two games to win the series; however, the Red Sox followed that 
series with their own disappointing World Series loss to the New York Mets. 
The Red Sox swept the Angels in the 2004 and 2007 American League Division 
Series (ALDS); in both those years the Red Sox would go on to win the World 
Series. The Red Sox also beat the Angels in the 2008 ALDS, 3 games to 1. 
The Angels swept the Red Sox in the 2009 ALDS.[56][57] The newest rivalry 
on the major league scene, the Rangers-Blue Jays feud started in the seventh 
inning of Game 5 in the 2015 ALDS. With the score tied 2-2, two outs, and 
Rougned Odor on third base, Blue Jays catcher Russell Martin accidentally 
hit the bat of Rangers outfielder Shin Soo Choo on his throw back to the 
mound, and Odor came around to score on the error. After a lengthy review 
process, the umpires determined that Odor should be allowed to score, infuriating 
the Toronto crowd; Choo would strike out on the next pitch to end the inning. 
In the bottom half, with Martin leading off, he hit a ground ball that 
was bobbled by Elvis Andrus and reached base. The next batter, Kevin Pillar, 
hit a grounder to Rangers first baseman Mitch Moreland who's low throw 
could not be handled by Andrus, leading to another error and two men on, 
nobody out, with Ryan Goins coming to the plate. Goins bunted the ball 
to the third base side, where it was fielded by Adrian Beltre, who threw 
to Andrus covering third base. Andrus again kicked the ball, his second 
error of the inning, to load the bases, with still nobody out. After Ben 
Revere hit a weak grounder which Texas cut down the run at the plate to 
get the first out, Sam Dyson came on to pitch with the bases still loaded, 
but one out. Jays third baseman and 2015 AL MVP Josh Donaldson hit a flare 
to the right side, and Odor misplayed the ball, leading to the tying run 
crossing the plate. However, on the same play, he was able to recover in 
time to throw to second base for the second out, bringing up slugging Jays 
outfielder Jose Bautista with runners on the corners and two outs. On a 
1-1 count, Bautista smoked a line drive home run to left field to put Toronto 
ahead 6-3, and did a dramatic bat flip to celebrate. The Rangers took offense 
to Bautista's actions, and the benches cleared. The same score would hold 
the rest of the game, sending the Blue Jays to the American League Championship 
Series, and the Rangers back home. The following season, on May 15, 2016, 
the two teams met again for the final time of the regular season, at Globe 
Life Park in Arlington, home of the Rangers. In the top of the eighth inning, 
with the Blue Jays batting but the Rangers leading 7-6, pitcher Matt Bush 
hit Jose Bautista with a pitch. Two batters later, Justin Smoak was at 
bat for Toronto. With one out, and Bautista on first, Smoak hit a ground 
ball to Beltre at third base, who relayed to Odor at second, and then to 
Moreland at first to complete the inning ending double play. However, on 
that play, Bautista took a hard slide into Odor at second, which Odor took 
exception to. After some pushing and shoving, Odor punched Bautista in 
the face with a right hook, and the benches cleared. For their roles in 
the altercation, Odor was suspended eight games; Bautista one. Following 
the Blue Jays defeat of the Baltimore Orioles in the 2016 American League 
Wild Card Game, the Rangers and Blue Jays met once again in the 2016 American 
League Division Series where once again, the Blue Jays defeated the Rangers 
in a sweep 3 games to 0. The Braves–Mets rivalry was at its peak in the 
late 1990s and early 2000s, as both teams competed for postseason berths 
and, most notably, met in the 1999 NLCS. The Mets–Phillies rivalry of Major 
League Baseball had been among the "hottest" in the National League, particularly 
in the mid to late 2000s.[58][59] The two National League East divisional 
rivals competed heavily in playoff, division, and wild card races, and 
the geographic proximity of the fanbases intensified their matchups. Aside 
from several brawls in the 1980s, the rivalry remained relatively low-key 
before the 2006 season,[60] as the teams had seldom been competitive at 
the same time. The Brewers–Cubs rivalry (also known as the I-94 rivalry 
due to two ballparks being 83.3 miles from each other off Interstate 94) 
refers to games between the Milwaukee Brewers and Chicago Cubs. Before 
the Brewers moved to the National League in 1998, the Brewers had a rivalry 
against the American League Central's team, the Chicago White Sox. The 
Cardinals–Cubs rivalry refers to games between the St. Louis Cardinals 
and Chicago Cubs. The Cubs lead the series 1,091–1,044 through 2010,[61] 
while the Cardinals lead in National League pennants with 19 against the 
Cubs' 16. However, the Cardinals have a clear edge when it comes to World 
Series successes, having won 11 championships to the Cubs' 3. Cardinals-Cubs 
games see numerous visiting fans in either St. Louis' Busch Stadium or 
Chicago's Wrigley Field.[62] When the National League split into two, and 
then three divisions, the Cardinals and Cubs remained together. They had 
3 pennant races in 1930, 1935, and 1945. The two teams met in the World 
Series of the nineteenth century when the Cardinals, then known as the 
Browns, were part of the American Association. The teams tied in 1885 and 
St. Louis won in 1886. St. Louis, however, has officially vacated their 
history from the AA.[63] The modern first post season meeting between the 
two teams was the 2015 NLDS, which the Cubs won 3 games to 1.[64] The Cardinals 
and the Reds have a heated rivalry that stems from fighting between the 
two clubs physically, the away fan consistency Cardinals fans tend to enjoy 
in Cincinnati, and battles for division supremacy in the early 2010s. The 
rivalry has had its heated moments:[65] Often called "The Beer Rivalry", 
as both teams were owned by rival brewing companies (Annehuaser-Busch for 
St. Louis and Miller for Milwaukee), and their stadiums are still named 
after the companies.[66] The two teams met in the World Series in 1982 
and in the 2011 NLCS. While the nascent Diamondbacks had, since the team's 
inception in 1998, not found themselves with any serious rivalries for 
most of their existence, 2011 saw the birth of a fast brewing rivalry with 
the Dodgers. This can be traced to a fall game where Dodgers reliever Hong-Chih 
Kuo threw at the Diamondbacks' Gerardo Parra, who took exception to it 
– and later hit a home run off Kuo, sparking harsh words from the Dodgers 
(particularly Clayton Kershaw, who screamed at Parra all the way to home 
plate). Kershaw, in turn, hit Parra with a pitch the following night; in 
their next game together in May 2012, the D-Backs' Ian Kennedy retaliated. 
However the rivalry hit a fever pitch in June 2013, when Kennedy hit the 
Dodgers' Yasiel Puig, prompting Zack Greinke to retaliate by hitting Miguel 
Montero. However, Kennedy then proceeded to hit Greinke himself, and a 
furious bench-clearing brawl began.[67] Later that fall, the Dodgers clinched 
the NL West title – at Chase Field, the home of the Diamondbacks. After 
the game, Dodger players jumped into the pool at the Diamondbacks' home 
ballpark; no brawls occurred (the opposing players and fans had all left), 
but many Arizona players and supporters,[68] even Senator John McCain,[69] 
(to which Dodgers reliever Brian Wilson shot back that the one-time presidential 
candidate "knows a thing or two about coming in second"[70]) expressed 
extreme displeasure at this "arrogant, immature" display. Fuel was added 
to the fire when in 2016, Dodgers ace, Zack Greinke left town for Arizona 
after the Dodgers lost in the divisional round of the playoffs earlier 
that year. The Dodgers–Giants rivalry is one of the biggest in American 
baseball.[71][72] It began in the late 19th century when both clubs were 
based in New York City, with the Dodgers playing in Brooklyn and the Giants 
playing at the Polo Grounds in Manhattan. After the 1957 season, Dodgers 
owner Walter O'Malley decided to move the team to Los Angeles for financial 
reasons, among others.[73] Along the way, he managed to convince Giants 
owner Horace Stoneham (who was considering moving his team to Minnesota) 
to preserve the rivalry by bringing his team to California as well.[73] 
New York baseball fans were stunned and heartbroken by the move.[73][74] 
Given that the cities of Los Angeles and San Francisco have long been competitors 
in economic, cultural, and political arenas, the new venue in California 
became fertile ground for its transplantation. Each team's ability to have 
endured for over a century while leaping across an entire continent, as 
well as the rivalry's growth from a cross-city to a cross-state engagement, 
have led to the rivalry being considered one of the greatest in sports 
history.[75][76][77] Unlike many other historic baseball match-ups in which 
one team remains dominant for most of their history, the Dodgers–Giants 
rivalry has exhibited a persistent balance in the respective successes 
of the two teams. While the Giants have more wins, National League pennants 
and World Series titles in franchise history, the Dodgers have won the 
National League West twelve times compared to the Giants' eight. The 2014 
World Series was the Giants' third championship since moving to California, 
while the Dodgers' last title came in the 1988 World Series. The Padres 
and Dodgers rivalry is intensified by geographical proximity, with only 
120 miles separating the two cities (less than a 2-hour drive),[78] making 
travel between the teams fans very easy and a staple of the rivalry, especially 
for Dodgers fans coming to San Diego. In 2013, a massive fight broke out 
between the teams, Dodgers pitcher Zack Greinke threw a pitch at Carlos 
Quentins head (the Padres slugger), he then charged the mound and in the 
ensuing fight, broke Greinkes collarbone.[79] The teams have also seen 
players go from one Southern California team to the other, former Padre 
star, Adrian Gonzalez was eventually traded to LA and Matt Kemp, former 
all-star for the Dodgers, was traded to the Padres in 2015. Interleague 
or interconference matchups have long been the norm in other professional 
sports leagues such as the National Football League.[7] Regular season 
interleague play was discussed for baseball's major leagues as early as 
the 1930s. In December 1956, Major League owners considered a proposal 
by Cleveland general manager and minority-owner Hank Greenberg to implement 
limited interleague play beginning in 1958.[80] Under Greenberg's proposal, 
each team would continue to play 154-games in the season, 126 of which 
would be within the league, and 28 against the eight clubs. The interleague 
games would all be played during a period immediately following the All-Star 
Game. Notably, under Greenberg's proposal, all results would count in regular 
season game standings and league statistics.[80] While this proposal was 
not adopted, the current system shares many elements. Bill Veeck predicted 
in 1963 that Major League Baseball would someday have Interleague play.[81] 
The concept did not take hold until the 1990s (at least in part as an effort 
to renew the public's interest in MLB following the 1994 players' strike).[7] 
MLB's first regular season interleague game took place on June 12, 1997, 
when the Texas Rangers hosted the San Francisco Giants at Rangers Ballpark 
in Arlington.[82] There were four interleague games on the schedule that 
night, but the other three were played on the West Coast, so the Giants–Rangers 
matchup started a few hours earlier than the others.[82] Texas' Darren 
Oliver threw the game's first pitch and San Francisco outfielder Glenallen 
Hill was the first designated hitter used in a regular-season game by a 
National League team.[82] San Francisco's Stan Javier hit the first home 
run in interleague play, and the Giants won the game 4–3.[82] For the first 
five seasons of Interleague Play, each division played against the same 
division from the other league (NL East vs. AL East, NL Central vs. AL 
Central and NL West vs. AL West), typically scheduled to alternate between 
home and away in consecutive years.[83] However, in 2002, a new format 
to Interleague Play was instituted where teams play Interleague games against 
various divisions.[83] Matchups which had been of particular interest prior 
to this format—mainly geographic rivals—were preserved. This is expected 
to be the continuing format of the interleague schedule. Corresponding 
divisions however, were skipped once when this rotation began, but were 
put back in the rotation in 2006. From 2002–12, all interleague games were 
played prior to the All-Star Game. Most games were played in June, though 
May games have been scheduled since 2005. Among the 224 interleague pairs 
of teams, 11 played six games every year, which were scheduled in two three-game 
series "home and home", or one at each home ballpark. Five of these matches 
feature two teams in the same city or in neighboring cities, where they 
wholly or partly share territorial rights. Six are regional matches at 
greater distance, four of which are in the same state. Known as the Beltway 
Series (after Washington's I-495 and Baltimore's I-695), the two teams 
first met in 2006 one year after the Nationals' relocation from Montreal 
to Washington. Much of this rivalry is dominated by off-the field issues. 
Baltimore owner Peter Angelos publicly opposed relocating the Expos to 
Washington, which he believed was a part of his territorial rights after 
the departure of the second incarnation of the Washington Senators in 1971. 
There are also controversies surrounding the value of the Nationals' television 
rights and their coverage on the Mid-Atlantic Sports Network. The White 
Sox-Cubs rivalry (also known as the BP Crosstown Cup, Crosstown Classic, 
The Windy City Showdown,[84] Red Line Series, City Series, Crosstown Series,[85] 
Crosstown Cup or Crosstown Showdown[85]) refers to the rivalry between 
two Major League Baseball teams that play their home games in Chicago, 
Illinois. The Chicago Cubs of the NL play their home games at Wrigley Field 
located on the city's North side, while the Chicago White Sox of the AL 
play their home games at U.S. Cellular Field on the city's South side. 
The terms "North Siders" and "South Siders" are synonymous with the respective 
teams and their fans, setting up an enduring rivalry. The Chicago Transit 
Authority's Red Line runs north-south through Chicago's neighborhoods, 
stopping at Wrigley Field and U.S. Cellular Field. Notably this rivalry 
actually predates the Interleague Play Era, with the only postseason meeting 
occurring in the 1906 World Series. It was the first World Series between 
teams from the same city. The White Sox won the series 4 games to 2, over 
the highly favored Cubs who had won a record 116 games during the regular 
season. The rivalry continued through of exhibition games, culminating 
in the Crosstown Classic from 1985–1995, in which the White Sox were undefeated 
at 10-0-2. The White Sox currently lead the regular season series 49-44. 
There have been eight series sweeps since interleague play began: five 
by the Cubs in 1998, 2004, 2007, 2008 and 2013, and three by the White 
Sox in 1999, 2008 and 2012. The battle of Ohio is between the Cincinnati 
Reds of the National League, and the Cleveland Indians of the American 
League. Both teams cities are about 250 miles away and is straight from 
each other by I-71. Currently the Indians are ahead of the Reds by 1 with 
an all time rivalry record 45–44.Their last meeting was on August 7, 2014 
with a Reds win. The next time they will meet is on May 5, 2015 in Cleveland. 
The rivalry between the St. Louis Cardinals of the National League and 
Kansas City Royals of the American League is a Major League Baseball series 
sometimes known as the I-70 Series or the Show-Me Series. This rivalry 
is so called because the two cities are located in the state of Missouri, 
whose nickname is the "Show Me State", and both cities are located along 
Interstate 70. They played each other for the first time in the 1985 World 
Series, which the Royals won in seven games. Owing to their geographical 
proximity, the teams face each other every regular season in interleague 
play. This prominent rivalry began with Royals' successes in the early 
'80's and fueled by the Royals' victory over the Cardinals in the 1985 
World Series. The series is still a source of contention among fans, notably 
the controversial call in the bottom of the ninth of game 6 in which Jorge 
Orta was called safe on a play that replays later showed him out. A Royals 
rally let them tie and later win the game and then later the series. The 
term Freeway Series refers to a series of baseball games played between 
Major League Baseball's Angels of Anaheim of the American League and Los 
Angeles Dodgers of the National League. The series takes its name from 
the massive freeway system in the greater Los Angeles metropolitan area, 
the home of both teams; one could travel from one team's stadium to the 
other simply by traveling along Interstate 5. The Freeway series is extremely 
popular in Los Angeles and normally sells out their games due to the close 
proximity of both teams and their fans. The Mets–Yankees rivalry is the 
latest incarnation of the Subway Series, the competition between New York 
City's Major League Baseball teams, the AL Yankees and NL Mets. Until Interleague 
play started, the two teams had only met in exhibition games. Since the 
inception of interleague play the teams have met in every season since 
1997 and faced off in the 2000 World Series. The Bay Bridge Series is the 
name of the games played between—and rivalry of—the Oakland Athletics of 
the AL and San Francisco Giants of the NL. The series takes its name from 
the San Francisco–Oakland Bay Bridge which links the cities of Oakland 
and San Francisco. Although competitive, the regional rivalry between the 
A's and Giants is considered a friendly one with mostly mutual companionship 
between the fans, as opposed to Cubs–White Sox, or Mets–Yankees games where 
animosity runs high. While many fans have a very strong dislike for the 
other team, some others actually like both. Bay Area baseball fans tend 
to disagree with each other on this topic. The series is also occasionally 
referred to as the "BART Series" for the Bay Area Rapid Transit system 
that links Oakland to San Francisco. However, the name "BART Series" has 
never been popular beyond a small selection of history books and national 
broadcasters and has fallen out of favor. Bay Area locals almost exclusively 
refer to the rivalry as the "Bay Bridge Series". Originally, the term described 
a series of exhibition games played between the two clubs after the conclusion 
of spring training, immediately prior to the start of the regular season. 
It was first used to refer to the 1989 World Series in which the Athletics 
won their most recent championship and the first time both teams had met 
since they moved to the San Francisco Bay Area. Today, it also refers to 
games played between the teams during the regular season since the commencement 
of interleague play in 1997. Through August 2015, the A's have won 53 games, 
and the Giants have won 50.[86] Until the Brewers moved to the NL in 90s, 
the White Sox and Brewers had a strong rivalry, both being very competitive 
in the 1980s and playing a short 90 miles away from each other, when the 
Brewers moved to the NL, they replaced the White Sox with Chicago's other 
MLB franchise, the Cubs as their primary rival. The Dodgers–Reds rivalry 
was one of the most intense during the 1970s and '80s. They often competed 
for the NL West division title. From 1970–90, they had eleven 1–v2 finishes 
in the standings, with seven of them being within 5½ games or fewer. Both 
teams also played in numerous championships during this span, combining 
to win 10 NL Pennants and 5 World Series titles from 1970–1990. Reds manager 
Sparky Anderson once said, "I don't think there's a rivalry like ours in 
either league. The Giants are supposed to be the Dodgers' natural rivals, 
but I don't think the feeling is there anymore. It's not there the way 
it is with us and the Dodgers."[87] The rivalry ended when division realignment 
moved the Reds to the NL Central. However, they did face one another in 
the 1995 NLDS. During the late 1970s and early to mid 1980s, there was 
a major rivalry between the Kansas City Royals and New York Yankees, and 
was considered one of the greatest postseason rivalries in MLB history.[88] 
The 2 teams were considered the best in the entire American League, and 
met 4 times in the ALCS, from 1976 to 1980. The first 2 championships between 
the 2 teams ended in 5 games, with the 1976 edition ending on a memorable 
Chris Chambliss walk-off homerun in the 9th inning. The 1977 edition would 
end on yet another Yankees comeback, battling down 2 games to 1 and rallying 
in the final 2 innings in Kansas City, down 1–3, and winning 5–3, and going 
on to win the 1977 World Series. However, in 1980, the roles would be reversed, 
with Kansas City sweeping New York, though would fall to the Philadelphia 
in the World Series. Perhaps the most infamous moment between the 2 teams 
though, was the Pine Tar Incident, in which George Brett blasted a 2 run 
home run in a game between the 2 teams on July 24, 1983 in Yankee Stadium. 
Yankees skipper Billy Martin protested the home run, noticing a large amount 
of pine tar on Brett's bat. The umpires agreed with Martin, ruling the 
amount of pine tar exceeded what was allowed, and therefore Brett was called 
out. The Royals protested this decision, and AL president at the time Lee 
MacPhail agreed, and restarted the game after Brett's home run on August 
18, with the Royals holding on to a 5-4 lead. The rivalry would have been 
renewed had the Yankees defeated the Astros in the 2015 wild card match. 
The Dodgers–Yankees rivalry is one of the most well-known rivalries in 
Major League Baseball.[89] The two teams have met 11 times in the World 
Series, more times than any other pair of teams from the American and National 
Leagues.[89] The initial significance was embodied in the two teams' proximity 
in New York City, when the Dodgers initially played in Brooklyn. After 
the Dodgers moved to Los Angeles in 1958, the rivalry retained its significance 
as the two teams represented the dominant cities on each coast of the United 
States, and since the 1980s, the two largest cities in the United States. 
The rivalry between the New York Giants and New York Yankees was intense 
as both teams not only inhabited New York City but also, for a time, the 
same ballpark.[90] During that era the opportunities for them to meet could 
only have been in a World Series. Both teams kicked off the first Subway 
Series between the NL and AL in 1921. The rivalry between the Philadelphia 
Phillies and Pittsburgh Pirates was considered by some to be one of the 
best rivalries in the NL.[91][92][93] The rivalry started when the Pittsburgh 
Pirates entered play in 1887, four years after the Phillies.[5] The Phillies 
and Pirates remained together after the National League split into two 
divisions in 1969. During the period of two-division play (1969–1993), 
the two National League East division rivals won the two highest numbers 
of division championships, the Pirates 9, the Phillies 6; together, the 
two teams' 15 championships accounted for more than half of the 25 NL East 
championships during that span.[94] However, after the Pirates moved to 
the National League Central in 1994, the rivalry ended. The teams have 
since faced each other only in two series per year and the rivalry has 
effectively died in the years since the Pirates moved out of the NL East.[92][93] 
The rivalry between the Philadelphia Phillies and Oakland Athletics, also 
known as the Philadelphia City Series was at its most intense from 1883-1955, 
when the Oakland Athletics played in Philadelphia. The rivalry was significant 
not only because both teams played in Philadelphia, but because of the 
strong competition between the National and American Leagues. The competition 
between the leagues was so strong that the A's and Phillies did not play 
at all from 1901–02 because of legal warring between the two parties. Related 
to growing tensions between the rival leagues, superstar Nap Lajoie had 
played for several years on the Phillies, but was displeased with the salary 
cap of $2,400 placed by the National League. When the American League was 
formed in 1901 and the A's joined it, Lajoie was offered a contract by 
Frank Hough of the Athletics on behalf of A's manager Connie Mack. When 
asked by a reporter what motivated him to leave, he responded "[Frank] 
Hough offered me $24,000 ($682,656 in current dollar terms) for four years. 
You can bet I signed in a hurry!" As a result, the Phillies filed a lawsuit 
to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court banning Lajoie from playing for any professional 
team. However, the decree only applied to teams in Pennsylvania, so Lajoie 
signed with the Cleveland Bronchos. When the decree expired, the Phillies 
chose not to file it again, and Lajoie left Cleveland to sign with the 
A's. When the National League and American League merged in 1903, the rivalry 
became more friendly. Games between the two teams were played in many different 
stadiums throughout Philadelphia as older ones fell into disrepair and 
newer ones were built. Stadiums included Shibe Park, Connie Mack Stadium, 
Philadelphia Park, as well as others. The final City Series game was played 
in 1954. In 1955, the Athletics moved to Kansas City after another dismal 
season in Philadelphia. The rivalry continued in spring training games 
until the Athletics moved to their permanent spring training facility in 
