Major League is a 1989 American sports comedy film produced by Chris Chesser 
and Irby Smith, written and directed by David S. Ward, that stars Tom Berenger, 
Charlie Sheen, Wesley Snipes, James Gammon, Bob Uecker, and Corbin Bernsen. 
Made for $11 million, Major League grossed nearly $50 million in domestic 
release.[2] Major League deals with the exploits of a fictionalized version 
of the Cleveland Indians baseball team and spawned two sequels (Major League 
II and Back to the Minors), neither of which replicated the success of 
the original film. Former Las Vegas showgirl Rachel Phelps (Margaret Whitton) 
has inherited the Cleveland Indians baseball team from her deceased husband. 
Phelps has received a lucrative deal to move the team to Miami, and she 
aims to trigger the escape clause in the team's contract with Cleveland 
if season attendance falls below minimum levels. To do this, she replaces 
their existing players with aging veterans and inexperienced rookies, hoping 
a bad team will cause attendance to decline. Phelps hires Lou Brown, a 
former coach from the Toledo Mud Hens to manage the team. During spring 
training in Tucson, Brown and veteran catcher and ex-womanizer Jake Taylor 
discover the new team has a number of interpersonal issues as well as their 
own struggles with the game, such as the prima donna nature of Roger Dorn, 
the only player on a long-term contract with the Indians, and the weak 
arm of veteran pitcher Eddie Harris who is forced to doctor his pitches 
to stay competitive. The new players besides Jake Taylor who has bad knee 
problems and was an all-star in Boston, who ended up in the Mexican League, 
Prima Donna and wealthy Roger Dorn has big plans when he retires so he 
doesn't get involve in the game a lot, Pedro Cerrano voodoo king and Power 
Hitter from Cuba has trouble hitting the curve ball, aging pitcher Eddie 
Harris, Rick "the Wild Thing" Vaughn is an ex-car thief and ex-con who 
played for the California Penal League and Willie Mays Hayes who wasn't 
invited to Spring Training but got himself in since Lou sees his running 
power and has trouble not hitting fly balls. The team starts the season 
on a losing streak. Their pitcher, Ricky Vaughn, has an incredible fastball 
but with little control, leading him to be called "Wild Thing"; however, 
by chance, Brown discovers Vaughn has eyesight problems, and when they 
fit him with glasses, his pitching drastically improves, helping the Indians 
to a series of wins. The team rallies, bringing the Indians higher in the 
division standings. Phelps tries to demoralize the team by taking away 
their luxuries such as a private jet, but the team still holds strong, 
and appears to have a shot at winning the division. Meanwhile, Taylor finds 
that his ex-girlfriend Lynn is living in Cleveland, and tries to get her 
to come back to him even after learning she has become engaged to a new 
beau. When Phelps' original plan falls through, she decides that she will 
purposely void the contract, despite the financial penalty, and will move 
the team to Miami regardless. Get rid of the loser players and Brown, once 
they reach dead last and get real players. Donovan relays this to Brown, 
who informs the team that no matter how well they do, they will be fired 
after the season. So, they decide to win the whole thing and win the Division 
and reach the American League Championship so Phelps can't move the team 
or throw them out. The team succeeds in tying the division with the New 
York Yankees, leading to a one-game playoff to determine the title. In 
the playoff in Cleveland, the Yankees take an early lead but Pedro Cerrano 
is able to overcome his inability to hit a curveball, hitting out a home 
run to tie the game. In the top of the 9th, with the bases loaded, Vaughn 
manages to strike out the Yankees best hitter, sending the Indians up to 
bat. With the game tied and the Indians with two outs, the speedy Willie 
Mays Hayes manages a single to get on base, and then steals second. Taylor 
steps up, and after signalling to Brown, calls his shot to center field. 
With the Yankees prepared for the long play, Taylor instead bunts, allowing 
Hayes to make it to home safely and win the game. As the team celebrates, 
Taylor sees Lynn in the stands, no longer wearing her engagement ring. 
The two rush to hug each other as the city celebrates the victory. The 
theatrical release's ending includes Rachel Phelps, apparently unable to 
move the team because of increased attendance, angry and disappointed about 
the team's success. An alternate ending on the "Wild Thing Edition" DVD 
shows a very different characterization of Phelps.[3] Lou tenders his resignation 
and tells Phelps that he can't in good conscience work for her after she 
sought to sabotage the team for her own personal gain. Phelps then tells 
him that, in fact, she loves the Indians and never intended to move them. 
However, when she inherited the club from her late husband, it was on the 
brink of bankruptcy. Unable to afford top flight players, she decided to 
take a chance on unproven players from the lower leagues, whom she personally 
scouted, and talented older players who were generally considered washed 
up. She tells Lou that she likewise felt that he was the right manager 
to bring the ragtag group together. Phelps conceived the Miami scheme and 
adopted a catty, vindictive persona to unify and motivate the team. As 
the players believed that she wanted the Indians to fail, she was able 
to conceal that the team could not afford basic amenities such as chartered 
jet travel behind a veil of taking them away to spite the players. Lou 
does not resign, but Phelps reasserts her authority by saying that if he 
shares any part of their conversation with anyone, she will fire him. This 
alternate ending was actually the original ending and was filmed and shown 
to test screening audiences before the movie's release. The producers said 
that although the twist ending worked as a resolution to the plot, they 
scrapped it after preview audiences responded negatively, preferring the 
Phelps character as a villain. Infielders Coaches The film's opening montage 
is a series of somber blue-collar images of the Cleveland landscape synchronized 
to the score of Randy Newman's "Burn On": an ode to the infamous night 
in Cleveland when the heavily polluted Cuyahoga River caught fire. Despite 
being set in Cleveland, the film was principally shot in Milwaukee because 
it was cheaper and the producers were unable to work around the schedules 
of the Cleveland Indians and Cleveland Browns. Milwaukee County Stadium, 
then the home of the Brewers (and three Green Bay Packers games per season), 
doubles as Cleveland Stadium for the film, although several exterior shots 
of Cleveland Stadium were used, including some aerial shots taken during 
an Indians game. In fact, the sign for the TV station atop the scoreboard 
is for WTMJ, the NBC affiliate for Milwaukee. One of the ending scenes 
of the movie is in West Milwaukee's legendary restaurant, 4th Base which 
showcases their unique horseshoe bar that is shown in the celebration scenes. 
Another restaurant scene, at the then Gritz Pazazz on Milwaukee's north 
side, is no longer open for business. Both facilities have since been demolished: 
the playing field of County Stadium is now a Little League baseball field 
known as Helfaer Field, while the rest of the former site is now a parking 
lot for the Brewers' new home, Miller Park; the new Cleveland Browns Stadium, 
a football-only facility owned by the City of Cleveland and used by the 
Browns, sits on the site of its predecessor.[4] The film was notable for 
featuring several actors who would go on to stardom: Snipes and Russo were 
relative unknowns before the movie was released, while Haysbert remained 
best known as Pedro Cerrano until he portrayed US President David Palmer 
on the television series 24. The film also featured former Major League 
players, including 1982 American League Cy Young Award winner Pete Vuckovich 
as Yankees first baseman Clu Haywood, former Milwaukee Brewers pitcher 
Willie Mueller as the Yankees pitcher Duke Simpson, known as "The Duke", 
and former Los Angeles Dodgers catcher Steve Yeager as third-base coach 
Duke Temple. Former catcher and longtime Brewers broadcaster Bob Uecker 
played the Indians' broadcaster Harry Doyle. The names of several crewmembers 
were also used for peripheral players. Sheen himself was a pitcher on his 
high school's baseball team. At the time of filming Major League, his own 
fastball topped out at 85 miles per hour. (In 2011, Sheen said that he 
had used steroids for nearly two months to improve his athletic abilities 
in the film.)[5] The film debuted at No. 1 at the box office.[6] The movie 
had a mostly positive reception.[7][8][9] It has an 82% "fresh" rating 
on review website Rotten Tomatoes based on 38 reviews, with trade magazine 
Variety calling it "sheer crowd pleasing fun". Due to the success of the 
film, two sequels have been produced - neither of which achieved the original's 
success. Major League II returned most of the original stars, with the 
notable exception of Wesley Snipes, and focused on the following season 
and the players' reaction to the previous season's success. This movie 
cost $25M and grossed $30.6M. Major League: Back to the Minors again starred 
Corbin Bernsen, but this time, as the owner of the Minnesota Twins, attempting 
to turn around the Twins' AAA team, the Buzz. This movie cost $46M and 
grossed only $3.6M. A possible third sequel, Major League 3, was reported 
in 2010 to be in development by original writer and producer David S. Ward. 
Charlie Sheen, Tom Berenger, and Snipes would return, with the plot revolving 
around Ricky Vaughn coming out of retirement to work with a young player.[10] 
In 2015, Morgan Creek Productions announced that the sequel was still in 
the works.[11] The film is recognized by American Film Institute in these 
lists: When he joined the Cubs in 1989 (the same year the film was released), 
pitcher Mitch Williams' extravagant wind-up and release, and his frequent 
wild pitches, earned him the nickname "Wild Thing." As with Rick Vaughn's 
character, the Wrigley Field organist played "Wild Thing" as Williams came 
out of the bullpen. A few years later, in 1993 with the Phillies, Williams 
started wearing the number 99 on his jersey, the same number that Vaughn 
wears in the film.[13] In the years since its release Major League has 
become a beloved film of many professional baseball players and announcers, 
and is often referenced during game broadcasts. For example, in 2014, for 
the film's 25th anniversary, Major League catcher David Ross filmed a one-man 
tribute to the film, with Ross playing the part (among others) of Lou Brown, 
Pedro Cerrano, Willie Mays Hayes, Rick Vaughn, and Roger Dorn.[14] Additionally, 
as part of their 2014 "Archives" set, the trading card company Topps celebrated 
the film's 25th anniversary by creating baseball cards (using the same 
design as the company's 1989 base set) of Roger Dorn, Jake Taylor, Eddie 
Harris, Rachel Phelps, Rick Vaughn, and "Jobu."[15] Soon after the films 
25th anniversary in 2015, the character Jobu (Pedro Cerrano's voodoo figure) 
was immortalized and produced by a company called "The Jobu Lifestyle." 
The packaging is a reference to Cerrano's locker that made up Jobu's shrine.[16][17] 
The film became an inspiration for the real Cleveland Indians and the city, 
given the previously long-standing Cleveland sports curse that had left 
Cleveland without any sporting championships in between 1964 and 2016 (when 
the NBA's Cleveland Cavaliers won their first title in their 46-year history). 
Ironically, the Indians reached the 2016 World Series, but lost in heartbreaking 
fashion to Ross and the similarly cursed Cubs, surrendering a 3-1 lead 
in the series. Between 1995 and 2016, the team reached the playoff several 
times and went to the World Series thrice, though losing each time.[3] 
Major League was made into and released as a sports video game, developed 
by Lenar and published by Irem, excusively for the NES in Japan in 1989.[18] 
