ESPN Major League Baseball is a promotion of Major League Baseball on ESPN 
and ESPN2. ESPN's MLB coverage debuted on April 9, 1990 with three Opening 
Day telecasts. ESPN Major League Baseball is guaranteed to remain on air 
until 2021. Starting in 2014, ESPN will return to broadcasting postseason 
baseball. ESPN has rights to any potential tiebreaker games (Game 163) 
and one of the two wild card games (Turner Sports receiving the other game). 
The different weekly regular-season packages that ESPN presents (as of 
2014) are Sunday Night Baseball, Monday Night Baseball and Wednesday Night 
Baseball. The network also airs select games on Opening Day, Memorial Day, 
Independence Day, and Labor Day. In addition to regular-season games, ESPN 
also airs several spring training games per year, the Taco Bell All-Star 
Legends and Celebrity Softball Game and Home Run Derby played the week 
of the All-Star Game, and (as of 2014) one of the two Wild Card games each 
postseason. ESPN also airs a daily highlight show called Baseball Tonight 
at 10 p.m. ET and 12 a.m. ET. ESPN Radio has also been airing Major League 
Baseball since 1998 (succeeding CBS Radio), broadcasting Sunday Night Baseball 
as well as select other regular-season games, the All-Star Game and Home 
Run Derby, and the entire postseason including the Wild Card Game, Division 
Series, League Championship Series, and World Series. Since ESPN first 
received MLB telecast rights, it has become traditional for the network 
to make an effort to cover live historic moments in the sport. For example, 
in 2007, ESPN and ESPN2 added several telecasts when Barry Bonds chased 
Hank Aaron's record for most home runs in a MLB career. ESPN had the national 
telecasts on August 4 when Bonds tied Aaron with number 755 and on August 
7, 2007 when he hit number 756. ESPN was also the broadcaster of the final 
game at the original Yankee Stadium as a part of Sunday Night Baseball 
with Jon Miller and Hall of Famer Joe Morgan. It also showed Chris Burke's 
18th-inning homer to end the 2005 NLDS. Also, the network has been given 
permission to interrupt regular programming, when allowed, to show attempts 
at new records or significant milestones live. Examples include three cut-ins 
from its coverage of the first X Games in 1995 until Eddie Murray recorded 
his 3000th hit, live coverage of Sammy Sosa's 600th home run in 2007, and 
a number of no-hitters, including the Buchholz feat mentioned earlier. 
Although it cannot show any historic attempts live during the Fox or TBS 
exclusive windows, it was allowed to show an in-progress highlight of Alex 
Rodriguez's 500th career home run in August 2007, as this was on a Saturday 
afternoon before Fox went on the air with its game coverage. On January 
5, 1989, Major League Baseball signed a $400 million deal with ESPN, who 
would show over 175 games beginning in 1990. For the next four years, ESPN 
would televise six games a week (Sunday Night Baseball, Wednesday Night 
Baseball and doubleheaders on Tuesdays and Fridays), as well as multiple 
games on Opening Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, and Labor Day. On 
April 15, 1990, ESPN's Sunday Night Baseball debuted with the experienced 
play-by-play announcer Jon Miller joining retired Hall of Fame player Joe 
Morgan in the broadcast booth. In its first year, Sunday Night Baseball 
averaged a 3.0 rating. That was double the number that ESPN as a whole 
was averaging at the time (1.5). By 1998, ESPN enjoyed its largest baseball 
audience ever (a 9.5 Nielsen rating) as Mark McGwire hit his 61st home 
run of the season. When ESPN first broadcast Sunday Night Baseball, they 
would show at least one game from every ballpark. Also, every team was 
guaranteed an appearance. It was essentially, the television equivalent 
to a cross country stadium tour. In 1994, ESPN renewed its baseball contract 
for six years (through the 1999 season). The new deal was worth $42.5 million 
per year and $255 million overall. The deal was ultimately voided after 
the 1995 season and ESPN was pretty much forced to restructure their contract. 
In 1995, ESPN broadcast the American League West tie-breaker game between 
the Seattle Mariners and California Angels with Jon Miller and Joe Morgan 
making the call.[1] In 1996, ESPN began a five-year contract with Major 
League Baseball worth $440 million and about $80 million per year. ESPN 
paid for the rights to a Wednesday night doubleheader and Sunday Night 
Baseball, as well as Opening Day and holiday telecasts and all postseason 
games not aired on Fox or NBC. Major League Baseball staggered the times 
of first-round games to provide a full-day feast for viewers: ESPN could 
air games at 1 p.m., 4 p.m., and 11 p.m. EDT, with the broadcast networks 
telecasting the prime time game. In 1998, ESPN[2][3] broadcast the National 
League Wild Card tie-breaker game between the Chicago Cubs and San Francisco 
Giants. Jon Miller and Joe Morgan were on the call.[4][5] In 1999, ESPN[6] 
broadcast the National League Wild Card tie-breaker game (this time between 
the New York Mets and Cincinnati Reds) once again with Jon Miller and Joe 
Morgan once again on the call.[7] ESPN and ESPN2 had contracts (which were 
signed in 2000 and ran through 2005) to show selected weeknight and Sunday 
Night Baseball games, along with Opening Day and holiday games and selected 
Division Series playoff games. The contracts with ESPN were worth $141.8 
million per year and $851 million overall. After Disney bought Fox Family 
(who from 2000–2001 aired Thursday night games) in 2002 to become ABC Family 
the Division Series games aired on ABC Family (with ESPN's announcers, 
graphics, and music) for one year. ESPN then added these games, along with 
the Thursday night games (subsequently shifted to weekday afternoon "DayGame" 
broadcasts), to its package. OLN was briefly considering picking up the 
rights to the Sunday and Wednesday games, which expired after the 2005 
season. On September 14, 2005 however, ESPN, then the current rights holder, 
signed an eight-year contract with Major League Baseball, highlighted by 
the continuation of ESPN's Sunday Night Baseball series with additional, 
exclusive team appearances. The key details of the agreement were: The 
weekday afternoon "DayGame" telecasts that ESPN and ESPN2 had previously 
aired were eliminated in the new pact, along with the late (10 p.m. ET) 
Wednesday night game (although ESPN can elect to show a late game instead 
of an early one should it so desire), and the coverage of Memorial Day, 
Independence Day, and Labor Day games (except for games that fall under 
the regular Monday-night slot). ESPN's Monday and Wednesday telecasts remain 
mostly nonexclusive, meaning the games also can be televised by each club's 
local broadcasters. In fact, Wednesday games are blacked out on ESPN unless 
a participating team's local broadcaster does not choose to televise the 
game. The Sunday games remain on ESPN only, and with ESPN losing the rights 
to Sunday Night Football telecasts, it looks likely that Sunday Night Baseball 
will run uninterrupted on ESPN throughout the season, except on Opening 
Night (when it will air on ESPN2, since it usually conflicts with the NCAA 
Women's Basketball Final Four). Alternate telecasts for home-team markets 
which are blacked out have also been phased out, either in an effort to 
save costs or in an effort to allocate more satellite space for high-definition 
broadcasts on ESPNHD. Those who get ESPN via cable get ESPNEWS instead, 
and those who get the channel via satellite see a blank picture and a blackout 
notice. MLB will receive, on average, $296 million a year under the new 
agreement, a television and a baseball official said, speaking on condition 
of anonymity because of a confidentiality agreement in the deal. ESPN will 
pay baseball $273.5 million in 2006, $293.5 million in each of the following 
four years, $308.5 million in 2011 and $306 million in each of the final 
two seasons. On July 25, 2006, Harold Reynolds was fired from ESPN. The 
ESPN spokeswoman confirmed that Reynolds "is no longer with the network" 
but did not give a reason for the departure.[8] "Three people who work 
at ESPN and familiar with the case said the cause was a pattern of sexual 
harassment." Reynolds confirmed that an accusation of sexual harassment 
was the reason for his departure but called it "a total misunderstanding" 
and that "I gave a woman a hug and I felt like it was misinterpreted.[9] 
In February 2008, ESPN and Reynolds reached an out-of-court settlement. 
Weeks later, Peter Gammons was sidelined with a brain aneurysm. Gammons 
returned to ESPN in early September. ESPN telecasts in 2006, posted an 
average of 1,115,000 household impressions, up 27% when compared to 2005's 
875,000. The corresponding 1.2 rating this year marks a 20% increase over 
the 1.0 average in 2005. ESPN2's baseball telecasts have averaged 704,000 
households, an increase of 34% over 2005's 525,000. Ratings on ESPN2 went 
up 33% (0.8 vs. 0.6). After the 2006 Division Series, ESPN lost the rights 
to broadcast playoff games on TV. All postseason games, from possible one-game 
playoffs to the World Series, have aired on Fox Sports and TBS since 2007. 
Games remained on ESPN Radio. ESPN also lost rights to ESPN DayGame presented 
by Fruit of the Loom and Thursday Night Baseball powered by Castrol. The 
play-by-play commentators for ESPN DayGame were Gary Thorne or Jon Sciambi, 
along with Steve Phillips, and Steve Stone as color analysts. The program 
was sponsored by Fruit of the Loom in 2006. The game generally aired on 
Wednesday or Thursday. The final game to date was aired on September 30, 
2006. Because of the reduction of ESPN's weekly schedule from five games 
to three, ESPN released numerous commentators from the network, including 
Jeff Brantley, Tino Martinez, Steve Stone and Eric Karros. With the new 
deal coming into play this year, several things changed with the Monday 
and Wednesday night games in particular. For Monday Night Baseball, the 
telecast will now co-exist with teams' local carriers up to three times 
per year, up from two times in previous years. Wednesday Night Baseball 
also changed slightly. Now, in addition to the featured game that night, 
they will also have some live cut-ins to other games across the nation 
and discuss some the hot topics in the major leagues. On April 1, for the 
season-opening game between the New York Mets and the St. Louis Cardinals, 
ESPN changed its on-screen graphics to the version that debuted with Monday 
Night Football in 2006 and was later adopted by its NBA coverage at the 
start of the 2006-07 season. The previous graphics dated back to the advent 
of ESPN HD in 2004. During the week of the All-Star Game, Baseball Tonight 
and SportsCenter did not travel to the game site as it normally does; the 
2007 site was AT&T Park in San Francisco. The reason was that MLB stripped 
ESPN of its on-site credentials for its studio crew as punishment for leaking 
the rosters of the All-Star teams before TBS did. TBS' announcement, which 
was billed as exclusive, was scheduled for 4 p.m. Eastern time but was 
delayed for nearly two hours, by which point ESPN, in apparent violation 
of its contract with MLB, went ahead and revealed the rosters anyway. ESPN 
later agreed to promote playoff coverage on TBS and Fox (alongside its 
own radio coverage) in return for Baseball Tonight going on the air shortly 
after each night's games concluded. ESPN pre-empted part of the Kansas 
State–Auburn college football game on September 1 to show the end of the 
no-hitter thrown by Boston Red Sox pitcher Clay Buchholz. ESPN2 showed 
the season-opening games in Tokyo between the Red Sox and the Oakland Athletics. 
Unfortunately, due to a transponder failure, viewers on DirecTV reliant 
on the standard-definition feed missed the first of the two games. (ESPNHD 
was unaffected.) On March 30, ESPN showed the first-ever game at Nationals 
Park in Washington, D.C. The Nationals defeated the Atlanta Braves on a 
walk-off home run by Ryan Zimmerman. On May 4, ESPN introduced enhanced 
updates targeting viewers who play fantasy baseball. It shows season batting 
statistics for the current batter on each potential count and updates batting 
average and other selected stats after the at-bat concludes. Starting with 
the April 3 season opener between the New York Yankees and Boston Red Sox, 
ESPN began using the same graphics package which debuted with Monday Night 
Football in 2009. The score banner was converted to a score box in the 
bottom right hand corner of the screen. And instead of numbers to represent 
the balls, strikes and outs, dots were represented for each: three green 
dots for balls, two yellow dots for strikes, and two red dots for outs. 
The pitch count was also introduced, adopted from the New York Yankees' 
broadcasts on the YES Network, as well as NESN for the Boston Red Sox. 
College baseball and softball broadcasts, however, continued to use the 
previous (2007) graphics for the 2010 College World Series telecasts. ESPN's 
coverage of the Little League World Series also retained the 2007 graphics 
until midway through, and then adopted the current (2010) graphics package. 
Baseball Tonight, a daily highlight show aired on ESPN during the baseball 
season, likewise introduced new graphics adopted from SportsCenter in June 
2010. The ESPN Major League Baseball score box was slightly modified beginning 
with the opening day game between the Detroit Tigers and the New York Yankees. 
Numbers indicating the ball, strike and out counts replace the dots used 
last year; the out dots were adopted by Fox Sports Net on their local broadcasts 
as well as Major League Baseball on Fox. The pitch speed and count are 
now fixed below the bases graphic. Also, the area around the bases graphic 
and ball, strike, and out counter is slightly translucent. Beginning with 
the Sunday Night Baseball interleague game between the New York Yankees 
and the Chicago Cubs on June 19, the graphics were slightly adjusted to 
fit in with the 16:9 aspect ratio for HD broadcasts, similar to what Fox 
Saturday Baseball, Root Sports and Fox Sports Net have done for their baseball 
coverage. TBS would follow suit in adjusting their graphics to the 16:9 
aspect ratio. The score box and other graphics were carried over from 2011,[10] 
but a new logo for all ESPN MLB presentations was unveiled at the start 
of the season. The ESPN logo is fixed on a CGI baseball, with the words 
'Major League Baseball' (or Baseball Tonight and Sunday, Monday or Wednesday 
Night Baseball) in a stylized neon light surrounding it. A 2-D version 
is also used on print ads or on secondary program IDs. The graphics would 
stay virtually the same for the next three seasons. On August 28, Major 
League Baseball and ESPN agreed to an eight-year, $5.6 billion contract 
extension, the largest broadcasting deal in Major League Baseball history. 
It gives ESPN up to 90 regular-season games, one of the two Wild Card games 
which will rotate between American League and National League teams each 
year, and the rights to all regular-season tiebreaker games. For the 2015 
season, ESPN introduced a new on-air appearance for baseball. Among its 
changes were a new, persistent K-Zone Live graphic, consisting of a faded 
white rectangle that is overlaid live atop the strike zone on the home 
plate camera angle at all times. A new K-Zone 3D graphic, with ball trails 
and a three-dimensional box representing the strike zone, can also be used 
during replays.[11] The new live K-Zone graphic was criticized by viewers 
and the media for being potentially distracting, drawing comparisons to 
baseball video games and Fox's "glowing puck" from its NHL coverage.[12][13] 
Through the years, ESPN has enhanced its Major League Baseball coverage 
with the introduction and implementation of innovative technology. Which 
