Mall of America (MOA) is a shopping mall owned by the Triple Five Group; 
it is one of the largest malls in the United States.[citation needed] It 
is located in Bloomington, Minnesota (a suburb of the Twin Cities), southeast 
of the junction of Interstate 494 and Minnesota State Highway 77, north 
of the Minnesota River and across the interstate from the Minneapolis–St. 
Paul International Airport. Opened in 1992, 80 percent of the visitors 
are from Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa, the Dakotas, Illinois, Ohio, and Canada.[2] 
The Triple Five Group, owned by Canada's Ghermezian family, owns and manages 
the Mall of America, as well as the West Edmonton Mall. The mall's concept 
was designed by the Triple Five Group, owned by the Ghermezian brothers, 
who also own the largest shopping mall in North America, the West Edmonton 
Mall. Mall of America is located on the site of the former Metropolitan 
Stadium, where the Minnesota Vikings and Minnesota Twins played until the 
Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome opened in 1982. A plaque in the amusement 
park commemorates the former location of home plate, and one seat from 
Met Stadium was placed in Mall of America at the exact location it occupied 
in the stadium, commemorating a 520-foot (160 m) home run hit by hall-of-famer 
Harmon Killebrew on June 3, 1967. In 1986, the Bloomington Port Authority 
signed an agreement with the Ghermezian organization. Groundbreaking for 
the mall took place on June 14, 1989. Organizations involved include Melvin 
Simon and Associates, Teachers Insurance and Annuity (a.k.a. TIAA), the 
Triple Five Group, and the office of architect Jon Jerde. In 1987, the 
Ghermezian brothers also met with Niagara Falls, New York officials with 
regard to building a similar "mega mall" in that city. Discussions lasted 
for several months but a suitable economic package could not be put together 
by New York officials.[3] Mall of America opened its doors to the public 
on August 11, 1992. Even before opening, the mall had earned several nicknames, 
including "The Megamall", "Sprawl of America", "Hugedale"—in reference 
to the four major "dale" shopping malls within the Twin Cities: Rosedale, 
Southdale, Ridgedale, and (defunct as of 2010[update]) Brookdale—and simply, 
"The Mall". Mall of America became the largest shopping mall in total area 
and largest in total store vendors in the United States when it opened. 
The Mall of America's 42 million annual visitors equal roughly eight times 
the population of the state of Minnesota. The mall employs over 11,000 
workers year-round and 13,000 during peak seasons.[4] During its run as 
an all-encompassing entertainment and retail venue, certain aspects, particularly 
its bars, have come under scrutiny. In early-2000 a Mardi Gras-themed bar, 
Fat Tuesday, shut its doors due to indecent exposure and alcohol-related 
offenses.[5] In 2003, after a protracted six-year legal battle between 
Simon Property Group, the managing general partner of the property, and 
the Ghermezian brothers/Triple Five Group, over majority ownership of the 
site, a federal appeals court ruled in favor of the Ghermezians, effectively 
transferring control and planning authority of the mall back to the creator 
of the concept.[6] The dispute stemmed from a 1999 purchase of Teacher's 
Insurance's 27.5% equity stake by Simon Properties, giving them majority 
ownership. The Ghermezians claimed they were never told of the deal and 
sued Simon, citing fiduciary responsibility. On November 3, 2006, the Ghermezians 
gained full control of Mall of America by spending US$1 billion.[7] In 
2007, there was an expansion plan called "Phase II". It will develop a 
large empty parcel of land (the site of the former Met Center indoor arena) 
north of the mall, and integrate an IKEA store built on a portion of the 
property in 2004. The project will also include a dinner theatre, ice rink, 
three hotels, and a waterpark, similar in design to the West Edmonton Mall. 
The cost of expansion was $2.1 billion and will double the mall's size 
with a 5,200,000-square-foot (480,000 m2) extension.[8] Mall of America 
has signed contracts to bring in Great Wolf Resorts as the waterpark operator, 
as well as Bass Pro Shops and a Kimpton Hotel.[8] The expansion section 
will connect to the mall on all four levels, and the adjacent IKEA store 
via a second level bridge. There will be fine art exhibits and an NHL-size 
ice rink for public and private skating. A new parking structure will be 
included, adding 8,000 spaces to the complex[9] and two upscale department 
stores.[10] Another considered plan would have seen fashion, architecture, 
and restaurants based on European styles.[11] On May 18, 2008, the Minnesota 
State Legislature passed a bill granting the City of Bloomington the right 
to use $34 million in tax-increment-financing to pay for public infrastructure 
to support the MoA expansion. In early 2011, construction began on an expansion 
of the south side of the mall near Killebrew Drive, where the 506-room 
Radisson Blu hotel opened in March 2013. The addition of this hotel was 
for the purposes of increasing accessibility to the park and making the 
Mall of America a destination location for anyone. The addition of the 
lightrail between the airport and the Mall of America also enabled people 
with layovers in Minneapolis to spend a convenient afternoon at the Mall 
of America. On November 29, 2011 Google announced indoor maps for Mall 
of America along with several other places like airports, parks and public 
spaces.[12] On March 24, 2012, the Triple Five Group announced the start 
of a $200 million expansion that would build into the north parking lot 
of the mall. Rather than the long planned Phase II expansion, this would 
be a step in building this expansion. The plans call for an additional 
hotel and an additional 200,000 square feet (19,000 m2) of retail space.[13] 
In March 2014, ground was broken on the mall's north side for the $104 
million, 14 storey JW Marriott hotel, owned and financed by the Shakopee 
Mdewakanton Sioux Community.[14] In winter 2012–2013, Mall of America hosted 
a 40 feet (12 m) tall ice castle made of icicles formed from 4 million 
gallons of water and then fused together. The castle joined 50 large ice 
towers together to create a series of shimmering archways, tunnels, walls 
and caverns.[15] The Mall of America has a gross area of 4,870,000 sq ft 
(452,000 m2) or 96.4 acres (390,000 m2), enough to fit seven Yankee Stadiums 
inside,[16] with 2,500,000 sq ft (230,000 m2) available as retail space.[4] 
The mall is nearly symmetric, with a roughly rectangular floor plan. More 
than 530 stores are arranged along three levels of pedestrian walkways 
on the sides of the rectangle, with a fourth level on the east side. Four 
anchor department stores are located at the corners. The mall is organized 
into four different zones, each with its own decorative style. Despite 
Minnesota's cold winters, only the mall's entrances and some below ground 
areas are heated. Heat is allowed in through skylights above Nickelodeon 
Universe. The Mall of America originally had Camp Snoopy, but due to an 
expired contract the park was taken over by a new organization. The majority 
of the heat is produced by lighting fixtures, other electric devices, and 
people in the mall.[17] In fact, even during the winter, air conditioning 
systems may still be in use during peak hours to ensure a comfortable shopping 
environment.[18] Although the common areas are unheated, the individual 
stores do have heating systems.[19] Two nearly identical seven-story parking 
ramps on the east and west sides of the mall provide 12,287 parking spaces. 
Overflow parking north of the building provides an additional 1,200–1,500 
spaces, and 1,407 spaces are provided by IKEA (1,407 spaces) that is part 
of the Phase II expansion of the mall which is under construction. Level 
One is the location of Nickelodeon Universe, Sea Life Minnesota (underground), 
Hard Rock Cafe, Lego, American Girl Doll store, Apple Store and Microsoft 
store, which are directly across from each other, and first level of general 
retail.[20] Level Two features restaurants, shopping, memory moments, and 
the first Verizon Destination Store. Level Three has two food courts with 
more than 20 eateries, Marshalls, mini-golf, and other places like Bubba 
Gump Shrimp Co.[21][22] Level Four is the entertainment level with the 
Hooters restaurant, Cantina #1 restaurant, Rick Bronson's House of Comedy, 
Dick's Last Resort, Skydeck Sports Grille and Lanes, and The Theatres at 
Mall of America (formerly run by General Cinemas and then AMC Theatres, 
now operated by mall management) occupied the fourth floor as of January 
2012. For many years the 4th floor was considered a ghost town but has 
surged in popularity and is 70% occupied. Planet Hollywood, at the height 
of its success, was once a very popular restaurant on the fourth floor, 
but closed in 2003. This space is now occupied by Dick's Last Resort.[23] 
The mall was in negotiations with Dave and Buster's for several years, 
which failed to re-open the location. In 2011, new owners were brought 
back in and relaunched the restaurant and lanes under Sky Deck Grill and 
Lanes.[23] In order to keep the fourth floor from failing as it did in 
the early 2000s, the mall has strategically leased to several different 
corporations, rather than leasing several spaces to one corporation. The 
bankruptcy of Jillian's in 2004 led to the lowest vacancy rate of the 4th 
floor, at 41%.[23] The original Level Four had a comedy club, Hooters, 
bowling alley, arcade, and Planet Hollywood.[citation needed] Due to the 
structure of the building, Level Four only exists on the East and South 
side of the mall. The mall has 23 empty stores. Mall of America is 4% vacant 
while nearby Southdale Center is 29% vacant.[when?] The Mall of America 
appeared in the 1996 Christmas movie Jingle All the Way. Nickelodeon Universe 
is an indoor theme park in the center of the mall. The park features roller 
coasters, among numerous other rides and attractions, and is the largest 
indoor theme park in the United States. Unlike many indoor amusement parks, 
Nickelodeon Universe has a great deal of natural foliage in and about the 
park, and its floor has a wide variance in height – the highest ground 
level in the park is 15 feet (4.6 m) above the lowest. The rides include 
the roller coasters SpongeBob SquarePants Rock Bottom Plunge and Avatar 
Airbender, and a thrill ride called BrainSurge. The latter roller coaster 
bills itself as a "rather peculiar" ride. It also has a miniature golfing 
section called Moose Mountain. This miniature golf course features eighteen 
holes and a relatively fast astroturf surface.[citation needed] At the 
Sea Life Minnesota Aquarium, guests travel through a 300-foot-long (91 m) 
curved tunnel through 14 feet (4.3 m) of water to view over 4,500 sea creatures 
including sharks, turtles, stingrays, and many more.[24] Sea Life Minnesota 
Aquarium offers special events such as sleepovers, scuba diving, snorkeling, 
and birthday parties.[25][third-party source needed] The Mall recently 
added Crayola Experience and FlyOver America to the list of family attractions. 
In the lower level of the eastern parking ramp is the Mall of America Transit 
Station, the busiest transit hub in Minnesota with services to and from 
many destinations in the Minneapolis – St. Paul metropolitan area. The 
Transit Station contains two stops on the Metro transit network: the southern 
terminus of the METRO Blue Line (light rail) to Downtown Minneapolis via 
MSP Airport and Hiawatha Avenue (operated by Metro Transit, and the northern 
terminus of the METRO Red Line (BRT) to Lakeville (operated by the Minnesota 
Valley Transit Authority). Both agencies also operate many local bus services 
to the Transit Station, and many area hotels along with the Mystic Lake 
Casino offer free shuttles to their establishments. The mall is not a park 
and ride facility, and overnight parking is banned to prevent passengers 
taking the train to the airport. Commuters are encouraged to use the nearby 
28th Avenue Station's parking ramp. The Mall of America Transit Station 
is undergoing a study to increase efficiency and capacities, and to provide 
a better experience for its users.[28] Estimates for the upgrade are approximately 
$20 million. The Mall of America's security program is unique and in many 
ways the first of its kind. Michael Rozin, who used to be employed as the 
mall's Special Operations Security Captain, developed and implemented a 
behavior detection unit specifically focused on mitigating the threat of 
terrorism and enhancing counter-terrorism capabilities.[29] Behavior Detection 
Officers (BDOs) are trained extensively in Israel, each one going through 
at least 240 hours of training that includes communication techniques, 
first aid, defensive tactics, crisis intervention, terrorism awareness, 
and rapid response.[30] As Doug Reynolds, the Security Director at the 
mall, noted in a congressional testimony in 2008, BDOs are taught to "look 
for intent, rather than means. The objective is to focus on suspicious 
indicators in three categories: People, vehicles and unattended items like 
backpacks, shopping bags, suitcases.”[31] This methodology has prepared 
the mall for a variety of threats, both from terrorists and everyday criminals. 
The mall's private security personnel were featured in 2010 TLC series 
Mall Cops: Mall of America.[citation needed] In 2011, NPR's All Things 
Considered and Morning Edition and PBS's Newshour both aired programs documenting 
security abuses by the mall's security personnel.[32][33] In February 2015, 
the Al-Shabaab militant group also released a propaganda video calling 
for attacks on the Mall of America and other Western shopping centers.[34] 
Although the group had never launched attacks in North America,[35] security 
at the mall was tightened in response and Homeland Security issued a one-day 
alert to shoppers to remain vigilant.[34] During the first decade of MOA's 
existence, demonstrators protested animal cruelty and sweatshop conditions.[36] 
In 1994, protesters confronted actor Charlton Heston at a mall restaurant 
over his campaigning efforts on behalf of a Republican U.S. Senate candidate. 
In 1996, two people were arrested after they locked themselves to Macy’s 
doors in the spirit of the annual Fur-Free Friday demonstration. The Minnesota 
Supreme Court decided in 1999 that because the mall is private property, 
constitutional free speech protections do not apply.[36] People inside 
the mall have been questioned or detained for operating video cameras, 
using notebooks, or other perceived suspicious behaviors. As of 2010[update], 
Michael Rozin, the former Special Operations Security Captain and founder 
of the mall's behavior detection unit instructed its members that "suspicious 
behavior" constitutes "photographing such things as air-conditioning ducts 
or signs that a shopper might have something to hide".[37] Commander Jim 
Ryan of the Bloomington Police Department commented that the mall's security 
methods may "infringe on some freedoms, unfortunately."[38] On December 
31, 2013, members from the First Nations protest movement Idle No More 
attempted to repeat a successful Native-American round dance held at the 
mall in 2012,[39] but failed after being stopped by mall security, who 
refused to allow Idle No More to hold their dance. Organizers of the dance, 
Patricia Shepard and Reyna Crow from Duluth were arrested on site for trespassing.[40] 
On December 21, 2014, thousands of protesters attended an unauthorized 
demonstration organized by Black Lives Matter in the mall's rotunda. The 
demonstration was in response to the Michael Brown fatal shooting in Ferguson, 
Missouri, and the then recent jury decision not to prosecute the white 
officer in that case, as well as the death of Eric Garner of New York. 
In response to the demonstration, the Mall of America closed the areas 
of the mall around the rotunda.[41] Police arrested 25 demonstrators.[42] 
The Bloomington City Attorney, Sandra Johnson, is pursuing charges against 
the organizers, ranging "from disorderly conduct and trespassing to inciting 
a riot".[36] The city is seeking thousands of dollars in compensatory damages 
from some of the organizers for out-of-pocket costs the city incurred while 
paying overtime for additional security. In response to these charges, 
demonstrators have called for a boycott of the mall.[43] Plans for another 
Black Lives Matter demonstration at the Mall of America on December 23, 
2015 prompted Mall officials to file a restraining order against the movement's 
activists.[44] Eight individual activists were sued in Hennepin County 
District Court.[45] The mall's lawsuit would prohibit the defendants from 
demonstrating and require them to delete all of their posts to social media 
pertaining to the demonstration. The lawsuit additionally asked that the 
court jail Black Lives Matter activists unless they publicly announce that 
the demonstration is cancelled on their social media accounts. The American 
Civil Liberties Union of Minnesota called the mall's lawsuit an "improper 
prior restraint on speech" and an unconstitutional overreach.[46] Leaders 
of the demonstration indicated that the demonstration would go ahead as 
scheduled.[47] Word of Mall of America's expansion has been stirring since 
the mid 1990s, however the first confirmation of an expansion occurred 
in 2005 when Triple 5 announces Mall of America Phase 2, a project that 
would expand the Mall of America to the north, crossing Lindau Lane and 
occupying the former site of Met Center.[48] However, this expansion was 
delayed due to the tightening of the credit market. Eventually this was 
broken into four major projects: 1b, 1c, 2b, 2c.[49] Status of Phase 2 
completion: Complete: 1B: Radisson Blu South expansion complete 2013 1C: 
luxury retail, restaurant, office and J.W. Marriott North expansion complete 
2016 Planned: 2B: 2-3 story luxury retail expansion including connection 
over Lindau Lane, luxury hotel, addition parking ramp. North Expansion 
on site of Met Center, Plan submitted to Bloomington Fall 2016, Construction 
2017, Open 2018-2019 Concepts: 2C: 3 story retail plus additional hotel, 
entertainment venue located north of 2B with connections to Ikea and American 
Blvd Shown on approved PDP from 2015 submission for 2B, but schedule dependent 
on 2B completion. The amusement park, during its "Camp Snoopy" days. The 
Metropolitan Stadium home plate marker. The Harmon Killebrew chair. The 
carousel at the amusement park. The band organ, formerly at the carousel 
entrance. The Bubba Gump Shrimp Co. restaurant. Another shot of the amusement 
park during the Camp Snoopy era. Another shot of Camp Snoopy from a different 
angle. The Kite-Eating Tree ride is shown in this picture. When Camp Snoopy 
became Nickelodeon Universe in 2008, the Kite-Eating Tree was restyled 
and renamed Swing-Along. The three-story American flag, which was used 
on July 4, 2008. The mall's information sign, which shows the use of "MOA". 
The MPR store, emphasizing A Prairie Home Companion. Al's Farm Toys, a 
farm-themed toy store which closed in 2016. A few of the unique sports-themed 
stores throughout the mall. Team Choice and Lids Locker Room (formerly 
Locker Room) closed, but Goldy's and Rybicki Cheese remain and Goldy's 
has since become Goldy's Locker Room. The legendary mural imitating Seurat; 
formerly near the food court. The Lego "Imagination Center", the longest-standing 
