In baseball, the field manager (commonly referred to as the manager) is 
an individual who is responsible for matters of team strategy on the field 
and team leadership. Managers are typically assisted by between one and 
six assistant coaches, whose responsibilities are specialized. A manager 
is essentially equivalent to the head coach in other North American professional 
sports leagues. The manager chooses the batting order and starting pitcher 
before each game, and makes substitutions throughout the game – among the 
most significant being those decisions regarding when to bring in a relief 
pitcher. How much control a manager takes in a game's strategy varies from 
manager to manager and from game to game. Some managers control pitch selection, 
defensive positioning, decisions to bunt, steal, pitch out, etc., while 
others designate an assistant coach or a player (often the catcher) to 
make some or all of these decisions. Some managers choose to act as their 
team's first base or third base coach while their team is batting in order 
to more closely communicate with baserunners, but most managers delegate 
this responsibility to an assistant. Managers are typically assisted by 
two or more coaches. Typically, the title of "manager" is only used in 
professional baseball, with the title "head coach" used at other levels 
of play. In many cases, a manager is a former professional, semi-professional 
or college player. Many current and former managers are former catchers 
which include Mike Matheny, John Gibbons, Brad Ausmus, Joe Torre, Mike 
Scioscia, and Joe Girardi. The manager's responsibilities normally are 
limited to in-game decisions, with off-the-field and roster management 
decisions falling to the team's general manager. The term manager used 
without qualification almost always refers to the field manager (essentially 
equivalent to the head coach in other North American professional sports 
leagues), while the general manager is often called the GM. Major League 
Baseball managers differ from the head coaches of most other professional 
sports in that they dress in the same uniform as the players and are assigned 
a jersey number. The wearing of a matching uniform is frequently practiced 
at other levels of play, as well. The manager may be called "skipper" or 
