Manatí (Spanish pronunciation: [manaˈti]) is a municipality of Puerto Rico 
on the northern coast, north of Morovis and Ciales; east of Florida and 
Barceloneta; and west of Vega Baja. Manatí is spread over 8 wards and Manatí 
Pueblo (The downtown area and the administrative center of the city). It 
is part of the San Juan-Caguas-Guaynabo Metropolitan Statistical Area. 
Manatí was founded in 1738 by Don Pedro Menendez Valdes. The Iglesia Nuestra 
Señora de la Candelaria church was built in the seventeenth century and 
is still standing in its original spot.[1] Manati is known as La Ciudad 
Metropolitana (The Metropolitan City), and also as La Atenas de Puerto 
Rico, (The Athens of Puerto Rico).[2] It is named after a sea mammal, the 
manatee (which are also known as sea cows). During those early years, the 
Mayor of the town was Jose Aulet. Juan Ponce de León picked the Manatí 
leg of the Manuatabón River as the first area to pan for gold.[1] The Aulet 
family owned lands rich in pineapples, sugar cane, and green bananas. The 
Aulets sold the land to the government in 1985. In 1853 the region shifted 
from mining to an expansion of agriculture, particularly cultivation and 
processing of sugar cane. The demand for and price of sugar remained high 
in international markets. The main commodity crop was sugar cane. Carpentry 
also became popular. During that year, the town consisted of 280 homes, 
2 squares, 8 streets and a school with 50 pupils. In 2012 Manati welcomed 
its first hotel, the Hyatt Place Hotel and Casino, that is scheduled to 
open in January 2014. The hotel broke ground on summer 2012. The hotel 
opened with 104 rooms, on March 5, 2014, alongside Casino Atlántico and 
a LongHorn Steakhouse ( Opened April 2014). Also the hotel counts with 
an outdoor swimming pool, 3 meeting rooms and a fitness center. The official 
name was Hyatt Place Manati & Casino <Hyatt Press> Manati, is very popular 
for its beaches. Manati is part of the tourism district of Porta Altantico.<Puerto 
Rico Does it better campaign> Isidoro Colón established the "Candelaria" 
sugar mill in the years between 1860 and 1870, located between Manatí and 
Barceloneta. Manatí is the pineapple center of Puerto Rico. In addition, 
grows in its surroundings fruits, sugar cane, and coffee.[2] Current manufacturers 
in Manati include Manati has 2 large private hospitals, Doctor's Center 
Hospital, and Manati Medical Center Dr. Otero Lopez (formerly the government 
owned Hospital de Area). Both hospitals also have large office buildings. 
There is also the smaller Municipal Hospital ( Newly Renovated, and expanded 
with a new four story building) The area surrounding PR-2 is known for 
having many medical offices. Manati has 3 high schools: Petra Corretjer 
de O'neill High School, Fernando Callejo High School, and the Escuela Instituto 
Tecnologico Recinto De Manati, the latter also serving as a technical institute. 
Private Schools : Manati only university is the American University of 
Puerto Rico, Manati Campus. There are several technical institutes, such 
as Instituto de Banca y Comercio, Atenas' College, EDC college and Dewey 
University. Due to space limitations it is almost impossible to list all 
of the people of Manatí who have distinguished themselves, therefore a 
