Coordinates: 40°53′22″N 73°54′7″W﻿ / ﻿40.88944°N 73.90194°W﻿ / 40.88944; 
-73.90194 Manhattan College is a private, independent, Roman Catholic, 
liberal arts college located in the Bronx, New York City, United States. 
After originally being established in 1853 by the Brothers of the Christian 
Schools (De La Salle Christian Brothers) as an academy for day students, 
Manhattan College was officially incorporated as an institution of higher 
education through a charter granted by the New York State Board of Regents. 
In 1922, the College moved from Manhattan to the Riverdale section of the 
Bronx, roughly 10 miles (16 km) north of Midtown. Manhattan College offers 
undergraduate programs in the arts, business, education, health, engineering, 
and science. Graduate programs are offered for education, business, and 
engineering. U.S. News & World Report lists Manhattan as one of the top 
20 colleges in the Regional Universities North category.[4] In addition, 
Manhattan consistently ranks in the top twenty in surveys that evaluate 
return on investment. In the 2014–2015 Payscale.com College Return on Investment 
survey, Manhattan placed 15th nationally.[5] Manhattan College was founded 
as the Academy of the Holy Infancy in 1853 by five French De La Salle Christian 
Brothers in a small building on Canal Street. When the need to expand forced 
them from Lower Manhattan, the college moved to 131st Street and Broadway, 
in the Manhattanville section of Harlem. The school's name was changed 
to Manhattan College in 1863, and moved to its present location in the 
Riverdale section of the Bronx in 1922 as it outgrew its facilities in 
Manhattanville. This is often the cause of some confusion as the college 
is located outside of Manhattan but still within the city limits of New 
York City. Originally exclusive to men, Manhattan College established a 
cooperative program with the College of Mount Saint Vincent after the pair 
became coeducational in 1973 and 1974, respectively. This partnership lasted 
until 2008. Since then, Manhattan College and the College of Mount Saint 
Vincent have been completely separate. For 118 years, a boys' secondary 
school, Manhattan College High School, known to students, parents, and 
rivals as Manhattan Prep was located on campus. Founded in 1854, the school 
educated its young men in a Catholic college preparatory curriculum geared 
toward eventual university matriculation. It was, indeed, a "prep" school 
in the classic sense: coats and ties were mandatory for class attendance; 
strict standards of behavior were enforced. The curriculum included 3 years 
of Latin (with an optional 4th year); foreign language study, including 
Greek, French, and Spanish; 4 years each of theology, mathematics, English 
rhetoric and literary forms, history and social studies. Throughout its 
existence, Manhattan Prep was a partner of its host institution with a 
significant percentage of its graduates continuing on to study at Manhattan 
College. The High School was located in De La Salle Hall. Students shared 
the college chapel, cafeteria, auditorium, and athletic facilities, and 
its sports teams bore the nickname, "the Jaspers" just as the Manhattan 
College teams. The "Prep" supported varsity teams in swimming, tennis, 
crew, canoe and kayak, cross country and indoor/outdoor track, and of course, 
basketball and baseball as members of the Catholic High School Athletic 
Association. There were also junior varsity and intramural sports. The 
school newspaper, published monthly, was called The Prepster. After admitting 
a small class of 1972, Manhattan Prep closed its doors in 1971 due to rising 
costs and a decline in Lasallian Brothers' vocations. The members of the 
class of 1972 either accelerated to graduate in 3 years with the class 
of 1971 or left for other area Catholic high schools. Despite the closure 
of the high school, the Brothers continue to maintain a presence on the 
college campus as members of the faculty and support staff. Manhattan College 
occupies a relatively compact campus. The college is divided into a north 
and south campus, in the residential Riverdale section of the Bronx. The 
North campus overlooks Van Cortlandt Park, and has as its focal point "the 
Quad", which sits at the center of the campus's four main buildings. Memorial 
Hall is the main entry onto campus and houses the office of the president 
as well as most of the other administrative offices on campus. Miguel Hall 
and De La Salle Hall are the main academic halls that border each side 
of the Quad. Miguel hosts the arts department and classes, while De La 
Salle is primarily used by the business school. The fourth side of the 
Quad is bordered by the chapel building, which houses Smith Auditorium 
(used to host receptions, speakers, and performances) on the first floor 
and the Chapel of De La Salle and His Brothers on the second floor, which 
features a painting of De La Salle and Brothers behind the altar, a large 
performing area where musical events and concerts take place on the altar, 
a grand piano, and a pipe organ in the balcony. Thomas Hall, along with 
the new Kelly Commons is the college's current student life building. It 
houses the offices of the Dean of Students, the student government, the 
radio station, the newspaper, the TV station, the musical ensembles, and 
others. The college's three dining halls, Locke's Loft, Dante's Den and 
Cafe 1853 are also located in Thomas Hall. The O'Malley Library is a new, 
six-story structure that was joined with the previous library, the Cardinal 
Hayes Pavilion. Built on a hill, the new library was built directly next 
to and above the old one, essentially combining the two and creating more 
floors, while enhancing technology and adding group study spaces. The Office 
of Admissions is on the sixth floor of O'Malley. Hayden Hall is on the 
east side of campus and houses the sciences as well as the department of 
fine arts. On the South campus, across 240th street, is the Leo Engineering 
Building and the Research and Learning Center (RLC). The two are home to 
all of the engineering departments: electrical, computer, civil, chemical, 
mechanical, and environmental, along with the math and computer science 
departments and all communication classrooms, computer labs, and broadcasting 
studios. Laboratories and classes for these disciplines take place in both 
buildings. Both biology and chemistry laboratories are also located in 
Leo. This building once contained a working nuclear reactor, which was 
decommissioned and stripped of its nuclear fuel and power generating capabilities 
in 1999. There are currently four on-campus residence halls at Manhattan 
College. Jasper Hall and Chrysostom Hall, named for John Chrysostom, are 
both traditional-style dorms, while Horan Hall and the Lee Hall, previously 
East Hill, offer suite-style living. Overlook Manor is an off-campus residence 
hall that offers apartment style living. In 2012, the college began to 
construct a new student commons named after alumnus Raymond Kelly. The 
new student commons, completed in Fall 2014, is the headquarters for student 
life; hosting numerous clubs, a state of the art wellness and fitness center, 
cafeterias, and a large ballroom. Draddy Gymnasium is the home of the basketball 
and volleyball teams, and also features the largest indoor track in New 
York City. Gaelic Park, on 240th Street, has recently been renovated with 
an artificial turf and is where soccer, lacrosse, and softball teams play. 
The college also utilizes adjacent Van Cortlandt Park for baseball, outdoor 
track and field, golf, and cross country as well as intramural activities. 
Alumni Hall is the home of the college's workout facilities as well as 
the athletic administration. The Broadway Garage is a five floor parking 
garage, approved in 2006[6] and completed soon afterward, located on Broadway. 
The garage offers parking to students and faculty, as well as visitors. 
The garage is also connected to Hayden hall via a pedestrian bridge that 
connects to one of Hayden's top floors, allowing pedestrians to bypass 
crossing Manhattan College Parkway. Manhattan College offers degrees in 
five undergraduate schools: Arts, Business, Education and Health, Engineering 
and Science. The School for Arts is the largest school overall at the college, 
however the School of Engineering is the college's most well-known program. 
Manhattan currently hosts over 60 programs. Students are required to take 
college-wide general education requirements (such as math, college writing, 
and religion) as well as core requirements in their respective school. 
For example, the School of Arts maintains a core curriculum called The 
Roots of Modern Learning which includes courses such as "Classical Origins 
of Western Culture." Classes operate on a semester schedule. The first 
semester begins in late August and runs to December. The second semester 
begins in mid-January and runs to mid-May. Winter intersession and summer 
courses are also offered, but not required. The college offers a number 
of Pre-Professional Programs such as Pre-Dental, Pre-Law, Pre-Medical, 
Pre-Physical Therapy, and Pre-veterinary; and graduate programs in education, 
engineering and business. The graduate School of Engineering allows students 
studying engineering as an undergraduate the opportunity to continue on 
to get their master's degree without having to switch colleges, as is the 
case at colleges with a 3 + 2 Engineering program. The B.S. Business / 
Masters of Business Administration Program offers students an option to 
complete a five-year multiple award program. The successful completion 
of the five-year program leads to two awards: a B.S. in Business (in one 
of six majors) and an MBA. Manhattan College contains chapters of various 
honor societies as Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Xi and Tau Beta Pi. A newly established 
chapter of Lambda Pi Eta communication honorary has also been added. Manhattan 
participates in the Consortium of Liberal Arts Colleges and in the New 
York Cluster of seven colleges and universities supported by the Pew Charitable 
Trusts for undergraduate science education. Manhattan College fields 19 
Division–I athletic teams for men and women, including basketball, soccer, 
baseball and softball, lacrosse, volleyball and rowing. The school's men's 
sports teams are called the Jaspers; women are known as Manhattan Jaspers. 
Historically track and field has been the school's strongest sport.[7] 
Manhattan is a member of the Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference (MAAC). 
In the modern era, basketball is the most popular sport at the school. 
The current coach is Steve Masiello who has been with Manhattan since 2011 
as head coach. During the 2013–2014 season, the Jaspers beat Iona in the 
MAAC Conference Final and went on to play the University of Louisville 
in the first round of the NCAA tournament in a controversial game where 
Masiello was set up to face his old mentor Rick Pitino. During the 2014-15 
season, the Jaspers again defeated Iona in the MAAC Conference Final to 
earn their second straight trip to the NCAA tournament, where they lost 
to Hampton University in the play-in game, or first round. The Manhattan 
College Track and Field program is the richest athletic tradition in the 
school, amassing a total of 31 out of a possible 32 MAAC Indoor/Outdoor 
Track titles. In 1973, Manhattan College won the Indoor NCAA Championship 
along with setting a new world record in the distance medley relay. Manhattan 
was also home to former American Record holder in the 5,000m Matthew Centrowitz 
Sr. The Program was run by legendary coach/runner Fred Dwyer who ran an 
astounding 4:00.3 mile while at his time at Manhattan. Manhattan still 
remains a power house on the east coast as one of the top programs around, 
under the direction of Dan Mecca. The college annually played the New York 
Giants in the late 1880s and into the 1890s at the Polo Grounds and Manhattan 
is credited by the Baseball Hall of Fame with the practice of the "seventh 
inning stretch" spreading from there into major league baseball.[8] It 
is written in the Baseball Hall of Fame that "During one particularly warm 
and humid day when Manhattan College was playing a semi-pro baseball team 
called the Metropolitans, Brother Jasper noticed the Manhattan students 
were becoming restless and edgy as Manhattan came to bat in the seventh 
inning of a close game. To relieve the tension, Brother Jasper called time-out 
and told the students to stand up and stretch for a few minutes until the 
game resumed." Luis Castro, a Manhattan College alumnus, was the first 
Latin American-born player to play in Major League Baseball in the United 
States, and the first Latin American since Cuban player Esteban Bellán 
in 1873 to play professional baseball. Manhattan College had a football 
program from 1924 until 1942. The college team posted an all-time record 
of 194 wins, 198 losses and 22 ties.[9] The final coach for the school's 
football team was Herbert M. Kopf. After the 1942 season, the school suspended 
intercollegiate football competition for World War II and then did not 
reactivate the program after completion of the war. The team was invited 
to the first ever Miami Palm Festival Game, predecessor to the Orange Bowl, 
played on January 2, 1933, University of Miami defeated Manhattan College, 
7–0. The team was revived in the 1965 in the form of a club team, and existed 
until 1987. Manhattan College's rowing program holds much history, as well. 
The school is one of the original 8 founding members of the Aberdeen Dad 
Vail Regatta, the largest Collegiate Regatta in the United States. The 
race attracts over one hundred Colleges and Universities from the U.S. 
and Canada and thousands of Student-Athletes on the second Saturday of 
May. The team's coach, Allen Walz, along with the school's football coach 
at the time, Herbert M. Kopf, served as stewards to the regatta. In 1936 
and 1938, Manhattan was one of two teams competing in the regatta, the 
other being Rutgers, on the Harlem River, where the team trains today. 
Both the men's and women's teams still compete in the Dad Vail Regatta 
today, as well as in the MAAC Championships, N.Y. State Championships, 
Knecht Cup and the C.R.A.S.H. B's World Indoor Rowing Championships. Manhattan's 
men's lacrosse program became Division I in 1997. They have qualified for 
the MAAC tournament 7 times (2000, 2002, 2004, 2005 and 2008–2010). In 
2002 the Jaspers went undefeated in the MAAC (9–0), and won the MAAC Championship. 
They finished with an 11–6 record.[10] The Jaspers earned a bid to the 
NCAA Playoffs in 2002, playing Georgetown. They fell to Georgetown 12–7 
in the first round of the NCAAs.[11] They have produced many ALL-MAAC players 
throughout the 15 years of the program. Manhattan College Pipes & Drums 
was established in 1981 by Brother Kenneth Fitzgerald, FSC with the musical 
assistance of Captain Robert Hogan, of the New York City Police Department 
Emerald Society Pipes & Drums. The band's members are students, faculty, 
and alumni of the college.[12] The band marches in many local parades including 
the famed New York City Saint Patricks Day Parade. Also known as the JasperBand, 
the Manhattan College Pep Band provides musical inspiration to get the 
Jasper crowds going at Men's and Women's basketball games. The Pep Band 
travels with teams to important away games to provide support away from 
home as well. In addition to performances at sporting events, the band 
also performs in concerts.[13] The college is located between two major 
New York City arteries: the Henry Hudson Parkway and the Major Deegan Expressway. 
The Van Cortlandt Park – 242nd Street subway station (1 train) provides 
access to the rest of the city via transfers to other subway services. 
The nearby Riverdale Metro-North Railroad station provides transportation 
to and from the northern suburbs and connection to Amtrak service. Manhattan 
has approximately 50,000 living alumni worldwide. Manhattan alumni are 
distinguishing themselves in the fields of academics, arts, engineering, 
literature, business, entertainment, government, and law. Hugh J. Grant, 
91st Mayor of New York City James Patterson, Author Rudy Giuliani, 107th 
Mayor of New York City Raymond Kelly, New York City Police Commissioner 
