The Manhattan Jaspers are composed of 19 teams representing Manhattan College 
in intercollegiate athletics. The Jaspers compete in the NCAA Division 
I and are members of the Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference.[3] Manhattan 
College fields 19 Division–I athletic teams for men and women, including 
basketball, soccer, rugby, baseball and softball, tennis, lacrosse and 
volleyball. The school's men's sports teams are called the Jaspers; women 
are known as Lady Jaspers. Historically track and field has been the school's 
strongest sport.[4] The Jaspers nickname comes from Brother Jasper of Mary, 
F.S.C., who was a memorable figure at the college. He was head of resident 
students, athletic director, and baseball coach during the late 1800s.[5] 
The school participated in the first intercollegiate lacrosse game in the 
United States, playing New York University on November 22, 1877. The college 
annually played the New York Giants in the late 1880s and into the 1890s 
at the Polo Grounds and Manhattan is credited by the Baseball Hall of Fame 
with the practice of the "seventh inning stretch" spreading from there 
into major league baseball.[6] It is written in the Baseball Hall of Fame 
that "During one particularly warm and humid day when Manhattan College 
was playing a semi-pro baseball team called the Metropolitans, Brother 
Jasper noticed the Manhattan students were becoming restless and edgy as 
Manhattan came to bat in the seventh inning of a close game. To relieve 
the tension, Brother Jasper called time-out and told the students to stand 
up and stretch for a few minutes until the game resumed." Manhattan College 
had a football program from 1924 until 1942. The college team posted an 
all-time record of 194 wins, 198 losses and 22 ties.[7] The final coach 
for the school's football team was Herbert M. Kopf. After the 1942 season, 
the school suspended intercollegiate football competition for World War 
II and then did not reactivate the program after completion of the war. 
The team was invited to the first ever Miami Palm Festival Game, predecessor 
to the Orange Bowl, played on January 2, 1933, University of Miami defeated 
Manhattan College, 7–0. The team was revived in the 1965 in the form of 
a club team, and existed until 1987. In the modern era, basketball is the 
most popular sport at the school. The current coach is Steve Masiello who 
has been with Manhattan since 2011 as head coach. During the 2013–2014 
season, the Jaspers beat Iona in the MAAC Conference Final and went on 
to play the University of Louisville in the first round of the NCAA tournament 
in a controversial game where Masiello was set up to face his old mentor 
Rick Pitino. During the 2014-15 season, the Jaspers again defeated Iona 
in the MAAC Conference Final to earn their second straight trip to the 
NCAA tournament, where they lost to Hampton University in the play-in game, 
or first round. The Manhattan College Track and Field program is the richest 
athletic tradition in the school, amassing a total of 31 out of a possible 
32 MAAC Indoor/Outdoor Track titles. In 1973, Manhattan College won the 
Indoor NCAA Championship along with setting a new world record in the distance 
medley relay. Manhattan was also home to former American Record holder 
in the 5,000m Matthew Centrowitz Sr. The Program was run by legendary coach/runner 
Fred Dwyer who ran an astounding 4:00.3 mile while at his time at Manhattan. 
Manhattan still remains a powerhouse on the east coast as one of the top 
programs around, under the direction of Dan Mecca. Luis Castro, a Manhattan 
College alumnus, was the first Latin American born player to play in Major 
League Baseball in the United States, and the first Latin American since 
Cuban player Esteban Bellán in 1873 to play professional baseball. Manhattan 
College's rowing program holds much history, as well. The school is one 
of the original 8 founding members of the Aberdeen Dad Vail Regatta, the 
largest Collegiate Regatta in the United States. The race attracts over 
one hundred Colleges and Universities from the U.S. and Canada and thousands 
of Student-Athletes on the second Saturday of May. The team's coach, Allen 
Walz, along with the school's football coach at the time, Herbert M. Kopf, 
served as stewards to the regatta. In 1936 and 1938, Manhattan was one 
of two teams competing in the regatta, the other being Rutgers, on the 
Harlem River, where the team trains today. Both the men's and women's teams 
still compete in the Dad Vail Regatta today, as well as in the MAAC Championships, 
N.Y. State Championships, Knecht Cup and the C.R.A.S.H. B's World Indoor 
Rowing Championships. Manhattan's lacrosse program became Division I in 
1997. They have qualified for the MAAC tournament 7 times (2000, 2002, 
2004, 2005 and 2008–2010). In 2002 the Jaspers went undefeated in the MAAC 
(9–0), and won the MAAC Championship. They finished with an 11–6 record.[8] 
The Jaspers earned a bid to the NCAA Playoffs in 2002, playing Georgetown. 
They fell to Georgetown 12–7 in the first round of the NCAAs.[9] They have 
produced many ALL-MAAC players throughout the 15 years of the program. 
On July 15, 2014, it was announced that Manhattan College's baseball team 
will play all of their home competitions at Dutchess Stadium [10] Manhattan 
won the 1973 NCAA Division I Indoor Track and Field Championships becoming 
the smallest school to win a Division I track title. Led by 1972 Olympians 
Anthony Colon of Puerto Rico and Michael Keogh of Ireland, the Jaspers 
won the title with 18 points and a 6-point margin.[11] Manhattan has long 
maintained rivalries with several local, and MAAC Conference opponents. 
The Jaspers' most notable rivals are the Fordham University Rams, with 
whom they compete in the "Battle of the Bronx", and the Iona Gaels. The 
