Manila (i/məˈnɪl.ə/, Filipino: Maynilà) or the City of Manila (Filipino: 
Lungsod ng Maynilà, Spanish: Ciudad de Manila) is the capital and the second 
most populous city of the Philippines. Founded on June 24, 1571, by a Spanish 
conquistador, Miguel López de Legazpi, it is one of the oldest cities in 
the Philippines and was the seat of power for most of the country's colonial 
rulers. It is situated on the eastern shore of Manila Bay and is home to 
many landmarks, some of which date back to the 16th century. It was the 
first chartered City by virtue of the Philippine Commission Act 183 on 
July 31, 1901 and gained autonomy with the passage of Republic Act No. 
409 or the "Revised Charter of the City of Manila" on June 18, 1949.[8] 
In 2012, the Globalization and World Cities Research Network listed Manila 
as a global city.[9] With a population of 1,780,148 in 2015, Manila is 
the second largest city in the Philippines, after Quezon City.[6] It is 
also the most densely populated city in the world, with 41,515 people per 
square kilometer.[6][3] It is one of sixteen cities and a municipality 
that make up Metro Manila, the capital region of the Philippines. Manila 
is located on the eastern shore of the Manila Bay on one of the finest 
harbors in the country. The city is composed of 16 districts: Binondo, 
Ermita, Intramuros, Malate, Paco, Pandacan, Port Area, Quiapo, Sampaloc, 
San Andres, San Miguel, San Nicolas, Santa Ana, Santa Cruz, Santa Mesa 
and Tondo. The city has six congressional districts for the lower house 
of the Philippine Congress. Manila was once ruled by the Kingdom of Tondo 
before it briefly became a province of the Majapahit Empire. During the 
Bruneian invasion of the Philippines, Sultan Bolkiah of Brunei captured 
Seludong (a village in modern-day Manila) and renamed it Maynilà,[10] a 
Tagalog term referring to the presence of the nila shrub. Maynilà became 
a vassal state of Brunei, established to overpower Tondo. In 1571, conquistadors 
arrived from Mexico, across the Pacific Ocean, and founded present-day 
Manila in what is now the Intramuros district. Spanish missionaries soon 
Christianized the city, incorporated Tondo and built some of the oldest 
churches in the country, including San Agustin Church. The conquistadors 
renamed the area Nuevo Reino de Castilla (New Kingdom of Castille). Manila 
became the center of Spanish activity in the Far East and one end of the 
Manila–Acapulco galleon trade route linking Spanish America with Asia, 
one of the earliest examples of globalization.[11] Because of its central 
location on Pacific trade routes, Manila received the moniker "Pearl of 
the Orient". Spanish rule of the Philippine archipelago lasted for more 
than three centuries, until 1898. At various points during the long colonial 
period, there were local revolts, Chinese insurrections, pirate attacks, 
earthquakes, Dutch raids and invasion attempts, and a British occupation 
of the city. Order was usually quickly restored and the city returned to 
the business of trade. In the 19th century, Manila was one of the most 
modern cities in Asia. Before the Spanish–American War, it saw the rise 
of the Philippine Revolution. After the war, the United States took control, 
switched the official language from Spanish to English, and made changes 
in education, local laws and urban planning.[12] Near the end of World 
War II, during the Battle of Manila, most of the city was flattened by 
intensive aerial bombardment by the United States Air Force. As a result, 
relatively little remains of Manila's prewar and colonial architecture, 
although there are ongoing restoration projects, especially within the 
old walled city, Intramuros.[13] Maynilà, the Filipino name for the city, 
originated from the word nilad, referring to a flowering mangrove tree 
that grew on the delta of the Pasig River and the shores of Manila Bay. 
The flowers were made into garlands that, according to folklore, were offered 
to statues on religious altars or in churches.[14] As nilad products were 
distributed in other places, people came to refer to the area as "Sa may 
Nilad", Tagalog for "the place where there are nilads". The word nilad 
itself is probably from the Sanskrit nila (नील), meaning "indigo tree".[15] 
The earliest evidence of human life around present-day Manila is the nearby 
Angono Petroglyphs, dated to around 3000 BC. Negritos, an Australoid people 
who became the aboriginal inhabitants of the Philippines, lived across 
the island of Luzon, where Manila is located, before the Malayo-Polynesians 
migrated in and assimilated them.[16] The Kingdom of Tondo flourished during 
the latter half of the Ming Dynasty as a result of direct trade relations 
with China. The Tondo district was the traditional capital of the empire, 
and its rulers were sovereign kings, not mere chieftains. They were addressed 
variously as panginuan in Maranao or panginoón in Tagalog ("lords"); anák 
banwa ("son of heaven"); or lakandula ("lord of the palace"). The Emperor 
of China considered the Lakans—the rulers of ancient Manila—"王", or kings.[17] 
In the 13th century, Manila consisted of a fortified settlement and trading 
quarter on the shore of the Pasig River. It was then settled by the Indianized 
empire of Majapahit, as recorded in the epic eulogy poem "Nagarakretagama", 
which described the area's conquest by Maharaja Hayam Wuruk.[17] Selurong 
(षेलुरोन्ग्), a historical name for Manila, is listed in Canto 14 alongside 
Sulot, which is now Sulu, and Kalka.[17] During the reign of Sultan Bolkiah 
from 1485 to 1521, the Bruneian Empire invaded, wanting to take advantage 
of Tondo's trade with China by attacking its environs and establishing 
the Kingdom of Maynilà (كوتا سلودوڠ; Kota Seludong). The kingdom was ruled 
under and gave yearly tribute to the Sultanate of Brunei as a satellite 
state.[10] It established a new dynasty under the local leader, who accepted 
Islam and became Rajah Salalila or Tariq Sulayman I. He established a trading 
challenge to the already rich House of Lakan Dula in Tondo. Islam was further 
strengthened by the arrival of Muslim traders from the Middle East and 
Southeast Asia.[18] In 1574, Manila was temporarily besieged by the Chinese 
pirate Lim Hong, who was ultimately thwarted by the local inhabitants. 
The city then became the seat of the Spanish colonial government. On June 
24, 1571, the conquistador Miguel López de Legazpi arrived in Manila and 
declared it a territory of New Spain, establishing a city council in what 
is now the district of Intramuros.[19] López de Legazpi had the local royalty 
executed or exiled after the failure of the Tondo Conspiracy: a plot wherein 
an alliance between Datus, rajahs, Japanese merchants and the Bruneian 
Empire would band together to execute the Spaniards, along with their Latin 
American mercenaries and Visayan allies. The victorious Spaniards made 
Manila the capital of the Spanish East Indies and of the Philippines, which 
their empire would control for the next three centuries. Manila became 
famous during the Manila–Acapulco galleon trade, which lasted for three 
centuries and brought goods from Europe, Africa and Latin America across 
the Pacific Islands to Southeast Asia (which was already an entrepôt for 
goods coming from India, Indonesia and China), and vice versa. Silver that 
was mined in Mexico and Peru was exchanged for Chinese silk, Indian gems 
and the spices of Southeast Asia. Likewise, wines and olives grown in Europe 
and North Africa were shipped via Mexico to Manila.[20] For twenty months 
from 1762 to 1764, Manila was occupied by British forces, who used it as 
a base for an unsuccessful attempt to conquer the Philippines during the 
Seven Years' War.[21] Eventually, the British withdrew in accordance with 
the 1763 Treaty of Paris.[22] The Chinese were punished for supporting 
the British invasion, and the fortress city of Intramuros, mostly populated 
by Europeans and Mexicans, kept its cannons pointed at Binondo, the world's 
oldest Chinatown.[23] After Mexico gained independence in 1821, Spain began 
to govern Manila directly.[24] Under direct Spanish rule, banking, industry 
and education flourished more than they had in the previous two centuries.[25] 
The opening of the Suez Canal in 1869 facilitated direct trade and communications 
with Spain. The city's growing wealth and education attracted indigenous 
people, Chinese, Indians, Latinos, and Europeans from the surrounding provinces[26] 
and facilitated the rise of an ilustrado class that espoused liberal ideas: 
the ideological foundations of the Philippine Revolution, which sought 
independence from Spain. After the 1898 Battle of Manila, Spain ceded Manila 
to the United States. The First Philippine Republic, based in nearby Bulacan, 
fought against the Americans for control of the city.[27] The Americans 
defeated the First Philippine Republic and captured President Emilio Aguinaldo, 
who declared allegiance to the United States on April 1, 1901. Upon drafting 
a new charter for Manila in June 1901, the Americans made official what 
had long been tacit: that the city of Manila consisted not of Intramuros 
alone but also of the surrounding areas. The new charter proclaimed that 
Manila was composed of eleven municipal districts: presumably Binondo, 
Ermita, Intramuros, Malate, Paco, Pandacan, Sampaloc, San Miguel, Santa 
Ana, Santa Cruz and Tondo. In addition, the Catholic Church recognized 
five parishes—Gagalangin, Trozo, Balic-Balic, Santa Mesa and Singalong—as 
part of Manila. Later, two more would be added: Balut and San Andres.[28] 
Under American control, a new, civilian-oriented Insular Government headed 
by Governor-General William Howard Taft invited city planner Daniel Burnham 
to adapt Manila to modern needs.[29] The Burnham Plan included the development 
of a road system, the use of waterways for transportation, and the beautification 
of Manila with waterfront improvements and construction of parks, parkways 
and buildings.[30][31] The planned buildings included a government center 
occupying all of Wallace Field, which extends from Rizal Park to the present 
Taft Avenue. The Philippine Capitol was to rise at the Taft Avenue end 
of the field, facing toward the sea. Along with buildings for various government 
bureaus and departments, it would form a quadrangle with a lagoon in the 
center and a monument to José Rizal at the other end of the field. Of Burnham's 
proposed government center, only three units—the Legislative Building and 
the buildings of the Finance and Agricultural Departments—were completed 
when World War II erupted. During the Japanese occupation of the Philippines, 
American soldiers were ordered to withdraw from Manila, and all military 
installations were removed on December 24, 1941. General Douglas MacArthur 
declared Manila an open city to prevent further death and destruction, 
but Japanese warplanes continued to bomb it. Manila was occupied by Japanese 
forces on January 2, 1942. From February 3 to March 3, 1945, Manila was 
the site of the bloodiest battle in the Pacific theater of World War II. 
Some 100,000 civilians were killed in February.[32] At the end of the battle, 
Manila was recaptured by joint American and Philippine troops. It was the 
second most devastated city in the world, after Warsaw, during the Second 
World War. Almost all of the structures in the city, particularly in Intramuros, 
were destroyed. In 1948, President Elpidio Quirino moved the seat of government 
of the Philippines to Quezon City, a new capital in the suburbs and fields 
northeast of Manila, created in 1938 by former President Manuel L. Quezon.[33] 
The move ended any implementation of the Burnham Plan's intent for the 
government centre to be at Luneta. With the Visayan-born Arsenio Lacson 
as its first elected mayor in 1952 (all mayors were appointed prior to 
this), Manila underwent The Golden Age,[34] once again earning its status 
as the "Pearl of the Orient", a moniker it earned before the Second World 
War. After Lacson's term in the 1950s, Manila was led by Antonio Villegas 
for most of the 1960s. Ramon Bagatsing (an Indian-Filipino) was mayor for 
nearly the entire 1970s until the 1986 People Power Revolution. Mayors 
Lacson, Villegas, and Bagatsing are collectively known as the "Big Three 
of Manila" for their contribution to the development of the city and their 
lasting legacy in improving the quality of life and welfare of the people 
of Manila. During the administration of Ferdinand Marcos, the region of 
Metro Manila was created as an integrated unit with the enactment of Presidential 
Decree No. 824 on November 7, 1975. The area encompassed four cities and 
thirteen adjoining towns, as a separate regional unit of government.[35] 
On the 405th anniversary of the city's foundation on June 24, 1976, Manila 
was reinstated by Marcos as the capital of the Philippines for its historical 
significance as the seat of government since the Spanish Period. Presidential 
Decree No. 940 states that Manila has always been to the Filipino people 
and in the eyes of the world, the premier city of the Philippines being 
the center of trade, commerce, education and culture.[36] During the martial 
law era, Manila became a hot-bed of resistance activity as youth and student 
demonstrators repeatedly clashed with the police and military which were 
subservient to the Marcos regime. After decades of resistance, the non-violent 
People Power Revolution (predecessor to the peaceful-revolutions that toppled 
the iron-curtain in Europe), ousted the authoritarian Marcos from power.[37] 
In 1992, Alfredo Lim was elected mayor, the first Chinese-Filipino to hold 
the office. He was known for his anti-crime crusades. Lim was succeeded 
by Lito Atienza, who served as his vice-mayor. Atienza was known for his 
campaign (and city slogan) "Buhayin ang Maynila" (Revive Manila), which 
saw the establishment of several parks and the repair and rehabilitation 
of the city's deteriorating facilities. He was the city's mayor for 3 terms 
(9 years) before being termed out of office. Lim once again ran for mayor 
and defeated Atienza's son Ali in the 2007 city election and immediately 
reversed all of Atienza's projects[38] claiming Atienza's projects made 
little contribution to the improvements of the city. The relationship of 
both parties turned bitter, with the two pitting again during the 2010 
city elections in which Lim won against Atienza. Lim was sued by councilor 
Dennis Alcoreza on 2008 over human rights,[39] charged with graft over 
the rehabilitation of public schools,[40] and was heavily criticized for 
his haphazard resolution of the Rizal Park hostage taking incident, one 
of the deadliest hostage crisis in the Philippines. Later on, Vice Mayor 
Isko Moreno and 28 city councilors filed another case against Lim in 2012, 
stating that Lim's statement in a meeting were "life-threatening" to them.[41] 
In the 2013 elections, former President Joseph Estrada defeated Lim in 
the mayoral race. During his term, Estrada has paid more than ₱5 billion 
in city debts and increased the city's revenues from ₱6.2 billion in 2012 
to ₱14.6 billion by 2016, resulting in increased infrastructure spending 
and the betterment of the welfare of the people of Manila. In 2015, the 
city became the most competitive city in the Philippines, making the city 
the best place for doing business and for living in. However, Estrada nearly 
lost to Lim in the 2016 elections.[42] Manila is located on the eastern 
shore of Manila Bay, on the western edge of Luzon, 800 miles (1,300 kilometers) 
from mainland Asia.[43] The Pasig River bisects Manila.[3][4] Almost all 
of Manila sits on top of centuries of prehistoric alluvial deposits built 
by the waters of the Pasig and on some land reclaimed from Manila Bay. 
Manila's land has been altered substantially by human intervention, with 
considerable land reclamation along the waterfronts since the American 
colonial times. Some of the natural variations in topography have been 
evened out due to the urbanization of the city. As of 2013[update], Manila 
had a total area of 42.88 square kilometres (16.56 sq mi).[3][4] Manila 
is criss-crossed by several fault lines. This contributes to the ranking 
of Metro Manila as the second riskiest capital to live in, according to 
Swiss Re.[44] The seismically active Marikina Valley Fault System poses 
a threat to Manila and the surrounding regions.[45] Manila has endured 
several deadly earthquakes, notably in 1645 and in 1677 which destroyed 
the stone and brick medieval city.[46] The Earthquake Baroque style was 
used by architects during the Spanish colonial period in order to adapt 
to the frequent earthquakes.[47] Under the Köppen climate classification 
system, Manila has a tropical savanna climate (Köppen climate classification 
Aw). Together with the rest of the Philippines, Manila lies entirely within 
the tropics. Its proximity to the equator means that the temperature range 
is very small, rarely going below 20 °C (68 °F) or above 38 °C (100 °F). 
Temperature extremes have ranged from 14.5 °C (58.1 °F) on January 11, 
1914,[48] to 38.6 °C (101.5 °F) on May 7, 1915.[49] Humidity levels are 
usually very high all year round. Manila has a distinct dry season from 
December through May, and a relatively lengthy wet season that covers the 
remaining period with slightly cooler temperatures. In the wet season, 
it rarely rains all day, but rainfall is very heavy during short periods. 
Typhoons usually occur from June to September.[50] Due to industrial waste 
and automobiles, Manila suffers from air pollution,[53][54] affecting 98% 
of the population.[55] Annually, the air pollution causes more than 4,000 
deaths.[56] Ermita is Manila's most air polluted district due to open dump 
sites and industrial waste.[57] According to a report in 2003, the Pasig 
River is one of the most polluted rivers in the world with 150 tons of 
domestic waste and 75 tons of industrial waste dumped daily.[58] Annually, 
Manila is hit with 5 to 7 typhoons creating floods.[59] In 2009, Typhoon 
Ketsana struck the Philippines. In its aftermath, the lack of infrastructure 
led to one of the worst floodings in the Philippines and creating a significant 
amount of pollution.[60] Following the aftermath of Typhoon Ketsana, the 
city began to dredge its rivers and improve its drainage network. The Pasig 
River Rehabilitation Commission is in charge of cleaning up the Pasig River 
and tributaries for transportation, recreation and tourism purposes.[61] 
Rehabilitation efforts have resulted in the creation of parks along the 
riverside, along with stricter pollution controls.[62][63] The city is 
made up of fourteen city districts, according to Republic Act No. 409—the 
Revised Charter of the City of Manila—the basis of which officially sets 
the present-day boundary of the city.[64] Two were later added, which are 
Santa Mesa (partitioned off from Sampaloc) and San Andres (partitioned 
off from Santa Ana). Manila has architecturally significant buildings in 
a wide range of styles spanning distinct historical and cultural periods. 
Architectural styles reflect American, Spanish, Chinese, and Malay influences.[65] 
Prominent Filipino architects such as Antonio Toledo, Felipe Roxas, Juan 
M. Arellano and Tomás Mapúa have designed significant buildings in Manila 
such as churches, government offices, theaters, mansions, schools and universities. 
The Art Deco theaters of Manila which are designed by some National Artists 
for Architecture such as Juan Nakpil and Pablo Antonio are unfortunately 
neglected, with some of them already demolished. The historic Escolta Street 
in Binondo features many buildings of Neoclassical and Beaux-Arts architectural 
style, many of which were designed by prominent Filipino architects during 
the American Rule in the 1920s to the late 1930s. Many architects, artists, 
historians and heritage advocacy groups are pushing for the revival of 
Escolta Street, which was once the premier street of the Philippines.[66] 
Almost all of Manila's prewar and Spanish colonial architecture were destroyed 
during its battle for liberation by the intensive bombardment of the United 
States Air Force during World War II. Reconstruction took place afterwards, 
replacing the destroyed historic Spanish-era buildings with modern ones, 
erasing much of the city's character. Some buildings destroyed by the war 
have been reconstructed, such as the Old Legislative Building (now the 
National Museum of Fine Arts), Ayuntamiento de Manila (now the Bureau of 
the Treasury) and the currently under construction San Ignacio Church and 
Convent (as the Museo de Intramuros). There are plans to rehabilitate and/or 
restore several neglected historic buildings and places such as Plaza Del 
Carmen, San Sebastian Church and the Manila Metropolitan Theater. Spanish-era 
shops and houses in the districts of Binondo, Quiapo, and San Nicolas are 
also planned to be restored, as a part of a movement to restore the city 
to its former glory and its beautiful prewar state.[67][68] Since Manila 
is prone to earthquakes, the Spanish colonial architects invented the style 
called Earthquake Baroque which the churches and government buildings during 
the Spanish colonial period adopted.[47] As a result, succeeding earthquakes 
of the 18th and 19th centuries barely affected Manila, although it did 
periodically level the surrounding area. Modern buildings in and around 
Manila are designed or have retrofitted to withstand an 8.2 magnitude quake 
in accordance to the country's building code.[69] The headquarters of the 
Philippine Coast Guard is located at the South Harbor in Port Area near 
Intramuros and Ermita. The Philippine Navy has its headquarters in Naval 
Station Jose Andrada located along Roxas Boulevard in Malate. Furthermore, 
the AFP Joint Task Force-National Capital Region was created in 2012 to 
ensure peace and stability in Metro Manila, of which Manila is a part. 
It bears the same functions of the deactivated National Capital Regional 
Command, although it operates on a much smaller size than its predecessor.[70] 
According to the 2015 census, the population of the city was 1,780,148, 
making it the second most populous city in the Philippines.[6] Manila is 
the most densely populated city in the world, with 43,079 inhabitants per 
km2.[71] District 6 is listed as being the most dense with 68,266 inhabitants 
per km2, followed by District 1 with 64,936 and District 2 with 64,710, 
respectively. District 5 is the least densely populated area with 19,235.[72] 
Manila's population density dwarfs that of Kolkata (27,774 inhabitants 
per km2), Mumbai (22,937 inhabitants per km2), Paris (20,164 inhabitants 
per km2), Dhaka (19,447 inhabitants per km2), Shanghai (16,364 inhabitants 
per km2, with its most dense district, Nanshi, having a density of 56,785 
inhabitants per km2), and Tokyo (10,087 inhabitants per km2).[72] The vernacular 
language is Filipino, based mostly on the Tagalog of surrounding areas, 
and this Manila form of spoken Tagalog has essentially become the lingua 
franca of the Philippines, having spread throughout the archipelago through 
mass media and entertainment.English is the language most widely used in 
education, business, and heavily in everyday usage throughout the Metro 
Manila region and the Philippines itself. A number of older residents can 
still speak basic Spanish, which used to be a mandatory subject in the 
curriculum of Philippine universities and colleges, and many children of 
Japanese Filipino, Indian Filipino, and other migrants or expatriates also 
speak their parents' languages at home, aside from English and/or Filipino 
for everyday use. Minnan Chinese (known as Lannang-oe) is spoken by the 
city's Chinese-Filipino community. The city is a major center for commerce, 
banking and finance, retailing, transportation, tourism, real estate, new 
media as well as traditional media, advertising, legal services, accounting, 
insurance, theater, fashion, and the arts in the Philippines. The Cities 
and Municipalities Competitiveness Index, published by the National Competitiveness 
Council of the Philippines, ranks the cities, municipalities and provinces 
of the country according to their economic dynamism, government efficiency 
and infrastructure. Manila placed third in the Highly Urbanized City (HUC) 
category.[73] Previously, Manila was the country's most competitive city 
in 2015, making it the best place to live in and do business.[74] The Port 
of Manila is the largest seaport in the Philippines, making it the premier 
international shipping gateway to the country. The Philippine Ports Authority 
is the government agency responsible to oversee the operation and management 
of the ports. The International Container Terminal Services Inc. cited 
by the Asian Development Bank as one of the top five major maritime terminal 
operators in the world[75][76] has its headquarters and main operations 
on the ports of Manila. Another port operator, the Asian Terminal Incorporated, 
has its corporate office and main operations in the Manila South Harbor 
and its container depository located in Santa Mesa. Binondo, the oldest 
and one of the largest Chinatowns in the world, was the center of commerce 
and business activities in the city. Numerous residential and office skyscrapers 
are found within its medieval streets. Plans to make the Chinatown area 
into a business process outsourcing (BPO) hub progresses and is aggressively 
pursued by the city government of Manila. 30 buildings are already identified 
to be converted into BPO offices. These buildings are mostly located along 
the Escolta Street of Binondo, which are all unoccupied and can be converted 
into offices.[77] Divisoria in Tondo is known as the "shopping mecca of 
the Philippines". Numerous shopping malls are located in this place, which 
sells products and goods at bargain price. Small vendors occupies several 
roads that causes pedestrian and vehicular traffic. A famous landmark in 
Divisoria is the Tutuban Center, a large shopping mall that is a part of 
the Philippine National Railways' Main Station. It attracts 1 million people 
every month, but is expected to add another 400,000 people when the LRT-2 
West Extension is constructed, making it Manila's busiest transfer station.[78] 
Diverse manufacturers within the city produce industrial-related products 
such as chemicals, textiles, clothing, and electronic goods. Food and beverages 
and tobacco products also produced. Local entrepreneurs continue to process 
primary commodities for export, including rope, plywood, refined sugar, 
copra, and coconut oil. The food-processing industry is one of the most 
stable major manufacturing sector in the city. The Pandacan Oil Depot houses 
the storage facilities and distribution terminals of the three major players 
in the country's petroleum industry, namely Caltex Philippines, Pilipinas 
Shell and Petron Corporation. The oil depot has been a subject of various 
concerns, including its environmental and health impact to the residents 
of Manila. The Supreme Court has ordered that the oil depot to be relocated 
outside the city by July 2015,[79][80] but it failed to meet this deadline. 
It is currently being demolished which is expected to be finished before 
the year 2016 ends, and plans have been set up to turn this 33 hectare 
facility into a transport hub or even a food park. Manila is a major publishing 
center in the Philippines.[81] Manila Bulletin, the Philippines' largest 
broadsheet newspaper by circulation, is headquartered in Intramuros.[82] 
Other major publishing companies in the country like The Manila Times, 
The Philippine Star and Manila Standard Today are headquartered in the 
Port Area. The Chinese Commercial News, the Philippines' oldest existing 
Chinese-language newspaper, and the country's third-oldest existing newspaper[83] 
is headquartered in Binondo. Manila serves as the headquarters of the Central 
Bank of the Philippines which is located along Roxas Boulevard.[84] Some 
universal banks in the Philippines that has its headquarters in the city 
are the Landbank of the Philippines and Philippine Trust Company. Philam 
Life Insurance Company, currently the largest life insurance company in 
the Philippines in terms of assets, net worth, investment and paid-up capital,[85][86][87] 
has its headquarters along United Nations Avenue in Ermita. Unilever Philippines 
has its corporate office along United Nations Avenue in Paco.[88] Toyota, 
a company listed in the Forbes Global 2000, also has its regional office 
along UN Avenue. Tourism is a vital industry in Manila, and it welcomes 
approximately over 1 million tourists each year.[81] Major destinations 
include the walled city of Intramuros, the National Theater at the Cultural 
Center of the Philippines,[note 1] Manila Ocean Park, Binondo, Ermita, 
Malate, Manila Zoo, the National Museum of the Philippines and Rizal Park. 
Rizal Park, also known as Luneta Park, is the national park of the country 
and has an area of 58 hectares (140 acres),[89] making it the largest urban 
park in Asia.[90] In the Tourism Act of 2009, Rizal Park and Intramuros 
were designated as flagship destination to become a tourism enterprise 
zone.[91] A new attraction called Paseo de Manila is expected to rise in 
the park.[92] The park was constructed as an honor and dedication to the 
country's national hero José Rizal, who was executed by the Spaniards on 
charges of subversion. The flagpole west of the Rizal Monument is the Kilometer 
Zero marker for distances to the rest of the country. Intramuros is the 
historic center of Manila. Originally, it was considered to be Manila itself 
at the time when the Philippines was under Spanish colonial rule. Owing 
to its history and cultural value, Intramuros and Rizal Park are designated 
as flagship destination to become a tourism enterprise zone in the Tourism 
Act of 2009.[91][92] Intramuros is managed by the Intramuros Administration 
(IA). The architecture of Intramuros reflects the Spanish colonial style 
and the American Neoclassical style, since the Philippines was a colony 
of Spain and the United States before it is granted its independence in 
1946. Kalesa is a popular mode of transportation in Intramuros and nearby 
places[93] such as Binondo, Ermita and Rizal Park. Popular tourist destinations 
in Intramuros include the Baluarte de San Diego, Club Intramuros Golf Course, 
Cuartel de Santa Lucia, Fort Santiago, Manila Cathedral, Palacio Arzobispal, 
Palacio de Santa Potenciana, Palacio del Gobernador, Plaza Mexico, Plaza 
de Roma, San Agustin Church and the Ayuntamiento de Manila.[94] Some of 
the country's oldest schools are founded in Intramuros, these are the University 
of Santo Tomas (1611), Colegio de San Juan de Letran (1620), and Ateneo 
de Manila University (1859). Only Colegio de San Juan de Letran remains 
at Intramuros; the University of Santo Tomas transferred to a new campus 
at Sampaloc in 1927, and Ateneo left Intramuros for Loyola Heights, Quezon 
City (while still retaining "de Manila" in its name) in 1952. Other prominent 
educational institutions include the Manila High School and the University 
of the City of Manila. The Department of Tourism designates Manila as the 
pioneer of medical tourism, expecting it to generate $1 billion in revenue 
annually.[95] However, lack of progressive health system, inadequate infrastructure 
and the unstable political environment are seen as hindrances for its growth.[96] 
Manila is a well-known shopping hub of the country and it has been named 
as one of the best shopping destinations in Asia.[97][98] Major shopping 
malls, markets and bazaars thrive in Manila. Robinsons Place Manila is 
the largest shopping mall in the city.[99] The mall was the second and 
by far the largest Robinsons Mall built by John Gokongwei. SM Supermall 
maintains a presence in the city. One of their shopping malls is the SM 
City Manila, the first SM Supermall in the city, located right beside the 
Manila City Hall. SM City San Lazaro is the second SM Supermall in Manila. 
It is located in Santa Cruz. SM City San Lazaro was constructed on the 
site of the former San Lazaro Hippodrome. The building of the former Manila 
Royal Hotel in Quiapo, which is famed for its revolving restaurant atop, 
is now the SM Clearance Center which was established in 1972.[100] The 
site of the first SM Store is located at Carlos Palanca Sr. (formerly Echague) 
Street in San Miguel. Quiapo is referred to as the "Old Downtown", where 
tiangges, markets, boutique shops, music and electronics stores are common. 
C.M. Recto Avenue is where lots of department stores are located. One of 
Recto Avenue's famous destinations is Divisoria, home to numerous shopping 
malls in the city. It is also dubbed as the shopping mecca of the Philippines 
where everything is sold at bargain price. Binondo, the oldest Chinatown 
in the world,[23] is the city's center of commerce and trade for all types 
of businesses run by Filipino-Chinese merchants with a wide variety of 
Chinese and Filipino shops and restaurants. As a result of Spanish cultural 
influence, Manila is a predominantly Christian city. As of 2010[update], 
Roman Catholics were 83.5% of the population, followed by adherents of 
the Philippine Independent Church (2.4%); Iglesia ni Cristo (1.9%); various 
Protestant churches (1.8%); and Buddhists (1.1%). Members of Islam and 
other religions comprises the remaining 10.4% of the city's population.[101] 
Manila is the site of prominent Catholic churches and institutions. The 
Manila Cathedral is the seat of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Manila 
and the oldest established church in the country.[102] Aside from the Manila 
Cathedral, there are also three other basilicas in the city: Quiapo Church, 
Binondo Church, and the Minor Basilica of San Sebastián. The San Agustín 
Church in Intramuros is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and is one of the 
two fully air-conditioned Catholic churches in the city. Manila also has 
other parishes located throughout the city, with some of them dating back 
to the Spanish Colonial Period when the city serves as the base for numerous 
Catholic missions both within the Philippines and to Asia beyond. Several 
Mainline Protestant denominations are headquartered in the city. St. Stephen's 
Parish pro-cathedral in the Sta. Cruz district is the see of the Episcopal 
Church in the Philippines' Diocese of Central Philippines, while align 
Taft Avenue are the main cathedral and central offices of the Iglesia Filipina 
Independiente (also called the Aglipayan Church, a national church that 
was a product of the Philippine Revolution). Other faiths like The Church 
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons) has several churches in 
the city. The indigenous Iglesia ni Cristo has several locales (akin to 
parishes) in the city, including its very first chapel (now a museum) in 
Punta, Sta. Ana. Evangelical, Pentecostal and Seventh-day Adventist denominations 
also thrive within the city. The headquarters of the Philippine Bible Society 
is in Manila. Also, the main campus of the Cathedral of Praise is located 
along Taft Avenue. Jesus Is Lord Church also has several branches and campuses 
in Manila, and celebrates its anniversary yearly at the Burnham Green and 
Quirino Grandstand in Rizal Park. Manila Cathedral is the seat of Roman 
Catholic Archdiocese of Manila The Minor Basilica of San Sebastián is the 
only all-steel church in Asia.[103] San Agustín Church in Intramuros, a 
UNESCO World Heritage Site. The Binondo Church Quiapo Church is the home 
to the iconic Black Nazarene which celebrates its feasts every January 
9. The city also hosts other religions. There are many Buddhist and Taoist 
temples serving the Chinese Filipino community. Quiapo is home to a sizable 
Muslim population which worships at Masjid Al-Dahab. Members of the Indian 
expatriate population have the option of worshiping at the large Hindu 
temple in the city, or at the Sikh gurdwara along United Nations Avenue. 
The National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of the Philippines, the 
governing body of the Filipino Bahá'í community, is headquartered near 
Manila's eastern border with Makati. Manila celebrates civic and national 
holidays. Manila Day, which celebrates the city's founding on June 24, 
1571, was first proclaimed by Herminio A. Astorga (then Vice Mayor of Manila) 
on June 24, 1962 and has been annually commemorated, under the patronage 
of John the Baptist. Locally, each of the city's barangays also have their 
own festivities guided by their own patron saint. The city is also the 
host to the Feast of the Black Nazarene, held every January 9, which draws 
millions of Catholic devotees. Another religious feasts held in Manila 
was the Feast of the Nuestra Señora de los Desamparados de Manila (Our 
Lady of the Abandoned), the patron saint of Santa Ana and was held every 
May 12. Non-religious holidays include the New Year's Day, National Heroes' 
Day, Bonifacio Day and Rizal Day. As the cultural center of the Philippines, 
Manila is the home to a number of museums. The National Museum of the Philippines 
operates a chain of museums in Rizal Park, such as the National Museum 
of Fine Arts, the National Museum of Anthropology and the National Museum 
of Natural History. Museums established by educational institutions include 
the Mabini Shrine, the Museum of Contemporary Art and Design, UST Museum 
of Arts and Sciences, and the UP Museum of a History of Ideas. Bahay Tsinoy, 
one of Manila's most prominent museums, documents the Chinese lives and 
contributions in the history of the Philippines. The Intramuros Light and 
Sound Museum chronicles the Filipinos desire for freedom during the revolution 
under Rizal's leadership and other revolutionary leaders. The Metropolitan 
Museum of Manila exhibits the Filipino arts and culture. Other museums 
in the city are the Museum of Manila, the city-owned museum that exhibits 
the city's culture and history, Museo Pambata, a children's museum, the 
Museum of Philippine Political History, which exhibits notable political 
events in the country, the Parish of the Our Lady of the Abandoned and 
the San Agustin Church Museum, which houses religious artifacts, and Plaza 
San Luis, a public museum. Sports in Manila have a long and distinguished 
history. The city's, and in general the country's main sport is basketball, 
and most barangays have a makeshift basketball court, with court markings 
drawn on the streets. Larger barangays have covered courts where interbarangay 
leagues are held every summer (April to May). The city has several well-known 
sports venues, such as the Rizal Memorial Sports Complex and San Andres 
Gym, the home of the now defunct Manila Metrostars.[104] The Rizal Memorial 
Sports Complex houses the Rizal Memorial Track and Football Stadium, the 
Baseball Stadium, Tennis Courts, Memorial Coliseum and the Ninoy Aquino 
Stadium (the latter two are indoor arenas). The Rizal complex had hosted 
several multi-sport events, such as the 1954 Asian Games and the 1934 Far 
Eastern Games. Whenever the country hosts the Southeast Asian Games, most 
of the events are held at the complex, but in the 2005 Games, most events 
were held elsewhere. The 1960 ABC Championship and the 1973 ABC Championship, 
forerunners of the FIBA Asia Championship, was hosted by the complex, with 
the national basketball team winning on both tournaments. The 1978 FIBA 
World Championship was held at the complex although the latter stages were 
held in the Araneta Coliseum in Quezon City, Southeast Asia's largest indoor 
arena at that time. Manila also hosts several well-known sports facilities 
such as the Enrique M. Razon Sports Center and the University of Santo 
Tomas Sports Complex, both of which are private venues owned by a university; 
collegiate sports are also held, with the University Athletic Association 
of the Philippines and the National Collegiate Athletic Association basketball 
games held at Rizal Memorial Coliseum and Ninoy Aquino Stadium, although 
basketball events had transferred to San Juan's Filoil Flying V Arena and 
the Araneta Coliseum in Quezon City. Other collegiate sports are still 
held at the Rizal Memorial Sports Complex. Professional basketball also 
used to play at the city, but the Philippine Basketball Association now 
holds their games at Araneta Coliseum and Cuneta Astrodome at Pasay; the 
now defunct Philippine Basketball League played some of their games at 
the Rizal Memorial Sports Complex. The Manila Storm are the city's rugby 
league team training at Rizal Park (Luneta Park) and playing their matches 
at Southern Plains Field, Calamba, Laguna. Previously a widely played sport 
in the city, Manila is now the home of the only sizable baseball stadium 
in the country, at the Rizal Memorial Baseball Stadium. The stadium hosts 
games of Baseball Philippines; Lou Gehrig and Babe Ruth were the first 
players to score a home run at the stadium at their tour of the country 
on December 2, 1934.[105] Another popular sport in the city are cue sports, 
and billiard halls are a feature in most barangays. The 2010 World Cup 
of Pool was held at Robinsons Place Manila.[106] The Rizal Memorial Track 
and Football Stadium hosted the first FIFA World Cup qualifier in decades 
when the Philippines hosted Sri Lanka in July 2011. The stadium, which 
was previously unfit for international matches, had undergone a major renovation 
program prior to the match.[107] The Football Stadium now regularly hosts 
matches of the United Football League. The stadium also hosted its first 
rugby test when it hosted the 2012 Asian Five Nations Division I tournaments.[108] 
Manila—officially known as the City of Manila—is the national capital of 
the Philippines and is classified as a Highly Urbanized City (HUC). The 
mayor is the chief executive, and is assisted by the vice mayor, the 36-member 
City Council, and six Congressmen. The members of the City Council are 
elected as representatives of specific congressional districts within the 
city. The current mayor is Joseph Estrada, who served as the President 
of the Philippines from 1998-2001. He is currently on his second term in 
serving as the city mayor. The current vice mayor is Dr. Maria Shielah 
“Honey” Lacuna-Pangan, daughter of former Manila Vice Mayor Danny Lacuna. 
The mayor and the vice mayor are term-limited by up to 3 terms, with each 
term lasting for 3 years. They are assisted by the City Council, the President 
of the Association of Barangay Captains, and the President of the Sangguniang 
Kabataan. On September 25, 2014, the Commission on Audit released its 2013 
Annual Financial Report citing the city's income at ₱10.1 billion with 
an asset worth of ₱18.6 billion.[109] Its local income stood at ₱5.41 billion 
and its national government allocation was ₱1.74 billion, having an annual 
regular income (ARI) of an estimated ₱7.15 billion.[110] Manila's net income 
stood at ₱3.54 billion in 2014.[111] Among the local government units, 
Manila has the highest budget allocation to health. It was also one of 
the cities with the highest tax and internal revenue.[112] Tax revenue 
accounts for 46% of the city's income in 2012.[113] Manila employs 11,919 
personnel at the end of 2014.[111] Manila, being the seat of political 
power of the Philippines, has several national government offices headquartered 
at the city. Planning for the development for being the center of government 
started during the early years of American colonization when they envisioned 
a well-designed city outside the walls of Intramuros. The strategic location 
chosen was Bagumbayan, a former town which is now the Rizal Park to become 
the center of government and a design commission was given to Daniel Burnham 
to create a master plan for the city patterned after Washington, D.C. These 
improvements were eventually abandoned under the Commonwealth Government 
of Manuel L. Quezon. A new government center was to be built on the hills 
northeast of Manila, or what is now Quezon City. Several government agencies 
have set up their headquarters in Quezon City but several key government 
offices still reside in Manila. However, many of the plans were substantially 
altered after the devastation of Manila during World War II and by subsequent 
administrations. The city, as the capital, still hosts the Office of the 
President, as well as the president's official residence. Aside from these, 
important institutions such as the Supreme Court, the Court of Appeals, 
the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, the Departments of Budget and Management, 
Finance, Health, Justice, Labor and Employment and Public Works and Highways 
still call the city home. Manila also hosts important national institutions 
such as the National Library, National Archives, National Museum and the 
Philippine General Hospital. Congress previously held office at the Old 
Congress Building. In 1972, due to declaration of martial law, Congress 
was dissolved; its successor, the unicameral Batasang Pambansa, held office 
at the new Batasang Pambansa Complex. When a new constitution restored 
the bicameral Congress, the House of Representatives stayed at the Batasang 
Pambansa Complex, while the Senate remained at the Old Congress Building. 
In May 1997, the Senate transferred to a new building it shares with the 
Government Service Insurance System at reclaimed land at Pasay. Manila 
is composed of 896 barangays,[114] which are grouped into 100 Zones. Each 
barangays has its own set of elected officials while the Zones only exists 
for statistical convenience. The city is divided into six congressional 
districts, whose elected Congressman will be the city's representatives 
to the lower house of the Congress of the Philippines, and they will became 
regular members of the Sangguniang Panlungsod (City Council). The city, 
along with the rest of the nation, elects 12 senators as one at-large district. 
Manila has the most number of barangays of any city or municipality in 
the Philippines.[115] Attempts at reducing its number have not prospered 
despite local legislation—Ordinance 7907, passed on 23 April 1996—reducing 
the number from 897 to 150 by merging existing barangays, because of the 
failure to hold a plebiscite.[116] In 2014, there are an estimated four 
million slum dwellers living in Metro Manila. Homelessness is also a major 
problem of the city.[117] Water services used to be provided by the Metropolitan 
Waterworks and Sewerage System, which served 30% of the city with most 
other sewage being directly dumped into storm drains, septic tanks, or 
open canals.[118] MWSS was privatized in 1997, which split the water concession 
into the east and west zones. The Maynilad Water Services took over the 
west zone of which Manila is a part. It now provides the supply and delivery 
of potable water and sewerage system in Manila,[119] but it does not provide 
service to the southeastern part of the city which belongs to the east 
zone that is served by Manila Water. Electric services are provided by 
Meralco, the sole electric power distributor in Metro Manila. One of the 
more famous modes of transportation in Manila is the jeepney. Patterned 
after U.S. Army jeeps, these have been in use since the years immediately 
following World War II.[120] The Tamaraw FX, the third generation Toyota 
Kijang, which competed directly with jeepneys and followed fixed routes 
for a set price, once plied the streets of Manila. All types of public 
road transport plying Manila are privately owned and operated under government 
franchise. On a for-hire basis, the city is served by numerous taxicabs, 
"tricycles" (motorcycles with sidecars, the Philippine version of the auto 
rickshaw), and "trisikads" or "sikads", which are also known as "kuligligs" 
(bicycles with a sidecars, the Philippine version of pedicabs). In some 
areas, especially in Divisoria, motorized pedicabs are popular. Spanish-era 
horse-drawn calesas are still a popular tourist attraction and mode of 
transportation in the streets of Binondo and Intramuros. By October 2016, 
the city will phase out all gasoline-run tricycles and pedicabs and replace 
them with electric tricycles (e-trikes). The city plans to distribute 10,000 
e-trikes to qualified tricycle drivers from the city.[121][122] The city 
is serviced by the LRT Line 1 and Line 2, which form the Manila Light Rail 
Transit System. Development of the railway system began in the 1970s under 
the presidency of Ferdinand Marcos, when Line 1 was built, making it the 
first light rail transport in Southeast Asia. These systems are currently 
undergoing a multibillion-dollar expansion.[123] Line 1 runs along the 
length of Taft Avenue (R-2) and Rizal Avenue (R-9), and Line 2 runs along 
Claro M. Recto Avenue (C-1) and Ramon Magsaysay Boulevard (R-6) from Santa 
Cruz, through Quezon City, up to Masinag in Antipolo, Rizal. The main terminal 
of the Philippine National Railways lies within the city. One commuter 
railway within Metro Manila is in operation. The line runs in a general 
north-south direction from Tutuban (Tondo) toward Laguna. The Port of Manila, 
located in the vicinity of Manila Bay, is the chief seaport of the Philippines. 
The Pasig River Ferry Service which runs on the Pasig River is another 
form of transportation. The city is also served by the Ninoy Aquino International 
Airport and Clark International Airport. In 2006, Forbes magazine ranked 
Manila the world's most congested city. According to Waze's 2015 "Global 
Driver Satisfaction Index", Manila is the town with the worst traffic worldwide.[124] 
Manila is notorious for its frequent traffic jams and high densities.[125] 
The government has undertaken several projects to alleviate the traffic 
in the city. Some of the projects include: the construction of a new flyover 
at Sampaloc,[126] the construction of the Metro Manila Skyway Stage 3, 
the proposed LRT Line 2 (west) extension from Recto to Tondo or the Port 
Area,[127] and the expansion of several national and local roads. However, 
such projects have yet to make any meaningful impact, and the traffic jams 
and congestion continue unabated.[128] The urban planning of the Manila 
and the whole metropolis was based on the Metro Manila Dream Plan, which 
seeks to address the problems of Metro Manila's urban planning and transportation. 
It consists of a list of short term priority projects and medium to long 
term infrastructure projects that will last up to 2030.[129][130] The Manila 
Health Department is responsible for the planning and implementation of 
the health care programs provided by the city government. It operates 59 
health centers and six city-run hospitals, which are free of charge. The 
six public city-run hospitals are the Ospital ng Maynila Medical Center, 
Ospital ng Sampaloc, Gat Andres Bonifacio Memorial Medical Center, Ospital 
ng Tondo, Sta. Ana Hospital, and Justice Jose Abad Santos General Hospital.[131] 
Manila is also the site of the Philippine General Hospital, the tertiary 
state-owned hospital administered and operated by the University of the 
Philippines Manila. Manila's healthcare is also provided by private corporations. 
Private hospitals that operates in the city are the Manila Doctors Hospital, 
Chinese General Hospital and Medical Center, Dr. José R. Reyes Memorial 
Medical Center, Metropolitan Medical Center, Our Lady of Lourdes Hospital, 
and the University of Santo Tomas Hospital. The Department of Health has 
its main office in Manila. The national health department also operates 
the San Lazaro Hospital, a special referral tertiary hospital. Manila is 
also the home to the headquarters of the World Health Organization's Regional 
Office for the Western Pacific and Country Office for the Philippines. 
The center of education since the colonial period, Manila — particularly 
Intramuros — is home to several Philippine universities and colleges as 
well as its oldest ones. It served as the home of the University of Santo 
Tomas (1611), Colegio de San Juan de Letran (1620), Ateneo de Manila University 
(1859), Lyceum of the Philippines University and the Mapua Institute of 
Technology. Only Colegio de San Juan de Letran (1620) remains at Intramuros; 
the University of Santo Tomas transferred to a new campus at Sampaloc in 
1927, and Ateneo left Intramuros for Loyola Heights, Quezon City (while 
still retaining "de Manila" in its name) in 1952. The University of the 
City of Manila (Pamantasan ng Lungsod ng Maynila) located at Intramuros, 
and Universidad de Manila located just outside the walled city, are both 
owned and operated by the Manila city government. The national government 
controls the University of the Philippines Manila, the oldest of the University 
of the Philippines constituent universities and the center of health sciences 
education in the country.[132] The city is also the site of the Polytechnic 
University of the Philippines, the largest university in the country in 
terms of student population.[133] The University Belt refers to the area 
where there is a high concentration or a cluster of colleges and universities 
in the city and it is commonly understood as the one where the San Miguel, 
Quiapo and Sampaloc districts meet. Generally, it includes the western 
end of España Boulevard, Nicanor Reyes St. (formerly Morayta St.), the 
eastern end of Claro M. Recto Avenue (formerly Azcarraga), Legarda Avenue, 
Mendiola Street, and the different side streets. Each of the colleges and 
universities found here are at a short walking distance of each other. 
Another cluster of colleges lies along the southern bank of the Pasig River, 
mostly at the Intramuros and Ermita districts, and still a smaller cluster 
is found at the southernmost part of Malate near the border with Pasay 
such as the private co-educational institution of De La Salle University, 
the largest of all De La Salle University System of schools. The Division 
of the City Schools of Manila, a branch of the Department of Education, 
refers to the city's three-tier public education system. It governs the 
71 public elementary schools, 32 public high schools.[134] The city also 
contains the Manila Science High School, the pilot science high school 
of the Philippines; the National Museum, where the Spoliarium of Juan Luna 
is housed; the Metropolitan Museum of Manila, a museum of modern and contemporary 
visual arts; the Museo Pambata, the Children's Museum, a place of hands-on 
discovery and fun learning; and, the National Library, the repository of 
the country's printed and recorded cultural heritage and other literary 
