Margaret Carolyn Unnewehr Schott (August 18, 1928 – March 2, 2004) was 
the managing general partner, president and CEO of Major League Baseball's 
Cincinnati Reds franchise from 1984 to 1999. She was the third woman to 
own a North American major-league team without inheriting it (the first 
being New York Mets founder Joan Whitney Payson), and the second woman 
to buy an existing team rather than inheriting it.[1] She is perhaps most 
well known for her controversial behavior during her tenure as owner of 
the Reds, which included slurs towards African-Americans, Jews, and persons 
of Japanese ancestry. She was banned from managing the team by the MLB 
from 1996 through 1998 due to statements in support of German domestic 
policies of Nazi party leader Adolf Hitler; shortly afterwards, she sold 
the majority of her share in the team. Schott was born in Cincinnati, one 
of five daughters of Charlotte and Edward Henry Unnewehr.[2] Her father 
grew wealthy in the lumber business.[3] She attended parochial schools 
and graduated from the Sacred Heart Academy.[4] While in college, Marge 
Schott became a member of Theta Phi Alpha fraternity. She married Charles 
Schott, a member of a wealthy Cincinnati family, in 1952, and inherited 
his automobile dealerships and interests in other industries when he died 
of a heart attack in 1968.[3] A widow at 39, Marge Schott never remarried 
and had no children of her own.[4] Schott had been a Reds fan for most 
of her life; from 1963 onward, she held an auction to raise money for the 
Cincinnati Children's Hospital, attended by several Reds players. In 1981, 
Schott bought a minority interest in the Reds as part of a group headed 
by insurance magnates William and James Williams. On December 21, 1984, 
she purchased a controlling interest for a reported $11M, making her managing 
general partner, and becoming the first woman to buy an MLB team.[5] In 
1985, she was named president and CEO of the club.[6] Five years later, 
the Reds won the World Series, when they swept the Oakland Athletics. Schott 
quickly became one of baseball's most publicly visible owners. The Reds 
had long been a family-oriented franchise, and fans praised her efforts 
to keep ticket and concession prices low. For instance, she kept the price 
of the basic hot dog at one dollar, and kept box seats around $12—the cheapest 
in baseball.[3] Unlike most owners, she sat in a regular box seat at Riverfront 
Stadium, and often signed autographs.[3] Despite not having any children 
of her own, she often allowed groups of children on the field to run to 
deep center field and back. She was also noted for always having Schottzie, 
her pet Saint Bernard, with her.[3] She was also criticized for not spending 
the money it would have taken to build the Reds into contenders. This "cheap" 
attitude was sometimes conveyed in her own statements. She would publicly 
comment on occasion about having to pay players while they were on the 
disabled list, notably World Series hero José Rijo (who had an elbow injury), 
about whom she once complained of "paying three million dollars to sit 
on his butt!"[3] On November 13, 1992, Charles "Cal" Levy, a former marketing 
director for the Reds, stated in a deposition for Tim Sabo, a former employee 
who was suing the team, that he'd heard Schott refer to then-Reds outfielders 
Eric Davis and Dave Parker as "million-dollar niggers."[7] Sabo, whose 
position was "team controller," alleged that his 1991 firing was due to 
testifying against Schott in another lawsuit brought against Schott by 
several limited partners and because he opposed the unwritten policy of 
not hiring blacks. Schott's countersuit alleged that Sabo wrote unauthorized 
checks to himself and paid health insurance premiums to retired front-office 
employees. She asked for $25,000 in damages for defamation. Sabo ultimately 
lost his suit. Levy, who is Jewish, alleged that Schott kept a Nazi swastika 
armband at her home and claims he overheard her say "sneaky goddamn Jews 
are all alike."[7] The next day, Schott issued a statement saying the claims 
of racism levied against her were overstated and that she did not mean 
to offend anyone with her statement or her ownership of the armband. Schott 
explained that the swastika armband had been a gift from a former employee.[8] 
On November 29, Schott said the "million-dollar niggers" comment was made 
in jest, but then stated that she felt that Adolf Hitler was initially 
good for Germany and did not understand how the epithet "Jap" could be 
offensive.[9] During the same season, a former Oakland Athletics executive 
assistant, Sharon Jones, is quoted in The New York Times as having overheard 
Schott state: "I would never hire another nigger. I'd rather have a trained 
monkey working for me than a nigger," before the start of an owners' conference 
call.[10] A four-man committee was convened to investigate Schott. On February 
3, 1993, she was fined $250,000 and banned from day-to-day operations of 
the Reds for the 1993 season. John Allen took over as managing partner. 
Schott returned to work on November 1. On May 18, 1994, during a speech 
before the Ohio County Treasurers Association, Schott commented that she 
did not want her players to wear earrings because "only fruits wear earrings."[11] 
She said, "I was raised to believe that men wearing earrings are fruity."[11] 
Up to 1999, the Reds had a long-standing rule prohibiting players from 
having facial hair.[3] The rule was rescinded after a discussion between 
Schott and newly acquired outfielder Greg Vaughn. In 1995, Schott famously 
announced in the middle of the season that manager Davey Johnson would 
not return, regardless of how well the Reds did. By all accounts, this 
was because of a personality clash between Johnson and Schott. Most notably, 
Schott did not approve of Johnson living with his fiancée before they were 
married later in the year.[12] The Reds won the division (before losing 
the National League Championship Series to the Atlanta Braves, 4 games 
to 0), and Johnson was fired anyway. The Reds traditionally played the 
first game of the season at home. On April 1, 1996 they played the Montreal 
Expos. The weather was cold and blustery and it had snowed earlier in the 
day. Shortly after the game started, home plate umpire John McSherry called 
a time out and motioned towards the Reds dugout, it was later presumed, 
for medical attention. After taking a few steps, McSherry collapsed and 
fell to the artificial turf face first. Attempts to resuscitate McSherry 
failed and he was pronounced dead at University Hospital about an hour 
later. The other umpires decided to postpone the game until the next day. 
Video showed Schott visibly upset that the game was to be postponed; reportedly 
she groused: "Snow this morning and now this. I don't believe it. I feel 
cheated. This isn't supposed to happen to us, not in Cincinnati. This is 
our history, our tradition, our team. Nobody feels worse than me."[13] 
Schott later insisted that she was standing up for the fans; critics saw 
her comments as insensitive. Schott reportedly offended major league umpires 
in general — and members of McSherry's crew specifically — by regifting 
a bouquet of flowers given to her, adding a sympathy note and sending it 
on to the funeral home.[3] During the team's next homestand, Schott attempted 
to smooth over the feud with the umpires, apologizing to them – despite 
none of them being in attendance at the game in question, only to have 
them refuse the gesture.[3] Schott was the target of frequent criticism 
for allegedly allowing her ever-present St. Bernards, Schottzie and Schottzie 
02, near complete free rein of Riverfront Stadium, including their defecating 
on the field.[3] Schott was known for not wanting to hire scouts, stating 
that "All they do is sit around and watch ball games,"[3] and wanting not 
to post scores of other games on the Riverfront Stadium scoreboard (the 
cost of this service was $350/month). Schott said of the scoreboard issue, 
"Why do [fans] care about one game when they're watching another?".[3] 
On an airplane, Marge Schott was allegedly approached by a woman who introduced 
herself as Edd Roush's granddaughter. Schott then replied, "That's nice 
hon, what business is he in?" Roush is a Hall of Fame center fielder who 
had many of his greatest years with the Reds.[14] The New York Times later 
dubbed her "Baseball's Big Red Headache."[4] On May 5, 1996, Schott aroused 
ire when she made statements favorable of Adolf Hitler, saying he "was 
good in the beginning, but went too far."[3] MLB again banned Schott from 
day-to-day operations through 1998. Later in the month, Schott was quoted 
in Sports Illustrated as speaking in a "cartoonish Japanese accent" while 
describing her meeting with the prime minister of Japan.[3] Further, she 
said that she did not like Asian American kids "outdoing our kids" in high 
school.[3] On April 20, 1999, Schott agreed to sell her controlling interest 
in the Reds for $67 million to a group led by Cincinnati businessman Carl 
Lindner. At the time she was facing a third suspension, failing health 
and an expiring ownership agreement with her limited partners, who planned 
to oust her. Schott remained as a minority partner. In addition to her 
interest in the Reds, Schott was a major contributor to charitable organizations 
in Cincinnati, including Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center 
and the Cincinnati Zoo, where they named an Asian elephant after her, Schottzie, 
also an elephant preserve, as well as Saint Ursula Academy in East Walnut 
Hills. She is recognized for her major donation to the local Dan Beard 
Council of the Boy Scouts of America that was used to create an 18-acre 
(7.3 ha) lake at Camp Friedlander. The lake was christened Lake Marge Schott.[15] 
Marge Schott was also a generous contributor to special events at the University 
of Cincinnati such as the annual Homecoming Parade. In 2001, Schott, a 
long-time smoker,[16] began to develop health problems. She was hospitalized 
twice for breathing problems and suffered from pneumonia in 2003. On February 
9, 2004, Schott was hospitalized. Some reports claim she was hospitalized 
due to a cold while others said she complained of knee ailments. However, 
during her stay, she developed breathing problems and had to be put on 
life support.[17] She died at age 75 at The Christ Hospital, in Cincinnati.[18] 
Schott's funeral was held at All Saints Catholic Church in the Cincinnati 
suburb of Kenwood.[19] She was interred at Gate of Heaven Cemetery wearing 
