Marine Park is the name of a neighborhood and the largest public park in 
the New York City borough of Brooklyn,[1] that lies between Flatlands and 
Mill Basin to the east, and Gerritsen Beach, Midwood, and Sheepshead Bay 
to the south and west. The neighborhood is mostly squared off in area by 
Gerritsen Avenue, Flatbush Avenue, Avenue U and Kings Highway. The eponymous 
park is within the neighborhood. The neighborhood is largely made up of 
ethnic groups such as Italians, Irish, Greeks, and Jews. The area is part 
of Brooklyn Community Board 18.[2] Charles Downing Lay won a silver medal 
in town planning at the 1936 Olympics for the planning of Marine Park.[3] 
The neighborhood is situated around Gerritsen Creek, the westernmost inlet 
of Jamaica Bay;[4] the creek's path within the neighborhood was covered 
in 1920.[5][6] During the last 5,000 years, strips of sand were deposited 
by ocean currents. These beach strips form a surf-barrier and allow salt 
marshes to thrive: ...Gerritsen Creek was a freshwater stream that once 
extended about twice as far inland as it does today. Around 1920 the creek 
north of Avenue U was converted into an underground storm drain. Yet it 
continues to supply the salt marsh with fresh water, which helps the marsh 
support a wide range of organisms. ...[7] The area was a hunting and fishing 
ground for Native Americans from the nearby village of Keshawchqueren. 
Pits for cooking and preparing food dating from 800 to 1400 AD were uncovered 
in Marine Park, along with deer and turtle bones, oyster shells, and sturgeon 
scales. In the 17th century, the Dutch began to settle in the area, which 
had similarities to the marshland and coastal plains of the Netherlands. 
The land proved to be fairly good farmland and there was an abundance of 
clams, oysters, and game from the region as well. ...Fearing that the relatively 
pristine marshland around Gerritsen Creek would be destroyed, Frederick 
B. Pratt and Alfred T. White offered the city 150 acres (0.6 km2) in the 
area for use as a park in 1917. After a seven-year delay the City accepted 
the offer. The prospect of a new park inspired developers to erect new 
homes in the area and, in the year 1926, form the organization, Marine 
Park Civic Association, although park improvements were slow to follow. 
Fill deposited in the marshlands in the 1930s and now land purchases increased 
the park's area to 1,822 acres (7 km2) by 1937. That year the Board of 
Aldermen named the site Brooklyn Marine Park...[7] In the 18th century 
George Washington made a stop for several days on the land nearby. There 
was a gristmill on the water at the time; in 1938, the mill burned down 
to the water level, leaving only the low tide wood pilings across the water, 
which can be clearly seen to this day. In the mid-20th century the area 
was abused by trash and abandoned cars. At one point it became a landfill 
and trash piled up to 60 feet (18 m) in certain areas. After a massive 
cleanup effort in the 1990s the area was restored to its former glory, 
with exception of a few rusty car parts riddling the area, and teens littering 
and causing arson to the dry tall phragmite from time to time. In the early 
20th century, as industrialization swept the nation, developers made plans 
to turn Jamaica Bay into a port and prepared to dredge Rockaway channel 
to allow large ships into the proposed harbor. Speculators anticipated 
a real estate boom and bought land along the Jamaica Bay waterfront. However, 
donors turned the land over to the city with the stipulation that it be 
turned into a public park instead. In 2007, Marine Park had a population 
of 86,253.[citation needed] Marine Park is mostly made up of middle-class 
residents of various ethnic groups, including mostly Irish, then those 
of Italian and Greek heritage.[citation needed] The neighborhood celebrates 
many Irish Catholic traditional festivals.[citation needed] Marine Park 
is a public park located in the neighborhood of Marine Park. Its 530 acres 
(2.1 km2) of grassland and salt marsh surround the westernmost inlet of 
Jamaica Bay.[1] Most of the park's land was donated to New York City to 
be turned into public park land by the Whitney family in 1920 and by Frederic 
B. Pratt and Alfred Tredway White, who jointly donated 150 acres (0.61 km2) 
in 1917. The land donated consists of the area between the current day 
Fillmore Avenue and Gerritsen Avenue and East 38th Street. Originally almost 
two thousand acres (8 km2), over half of which has been donated to the 
National Park Service as part of the Gateway National Recreation Area, 
the park is mainly a fertile salt marsh which is supplied with freshwater 
from Gerritsen Creek. Marine Park, surrounded by the neighborhood it is 
named after, consists of recreational park areas and the Salt Marsh Nature 
Center, where myrtle warblers, grasshopper sparrows, cottontail rabbits, 
ring-necked pheasants, horseshoe crabs, and oyster toadfish can be found. 
The park used to be a fishing ground for the village of Keshawchqueren. 
With new land purchases in the 1930s, the park grew to 1822 acres (7.4 km2) 
by 1937. That same year, the Board of Aldermen named the site "Brooklyn 
Marine Park". The park gained its land mass as a dump, a dynamic that led 
to so many rats in the area that local children hunted them with bows and 
arrows in the 1960s.[8] One neighborhood boy was even bitten by a rat in 
his sleep.[8] Recreational facilities were built in the decades to follow, 
including the Pratt-White athletic field (1939) that was dedicated to the 
two fathers of Marine Park. A 210-acre (0.85 km2) golf course opened in 
1963, and the John V. Lindsay Model Airport was dedicated in 1971. The 
golf course was designed by renowned course architect Robert Trent Jones 
and hosts several pro-am golf tournaments, including the Brooklyn Open 
and the Jamaica Open NY Golf Tournament. New ballfields were opened in 
1979 and named for baseball-loving NYPD Officer Rocco Torre in 1997. Nature 
trails established along Gerritsen Creek in 1984-85 invite parkgoers to 
observe a wealth of flora and fauna. Ongoing improvements at the end of 
the 20th century include the reconstruction of basketball, tennis, and 
bocce courts; of baseball fields; and of Lenape Playground at Avenue U. 
A new nature center opened in 2000. The Carmine Carro Community Center, 
named for Carmine Carro, a local activist and park advocate who served 
as president for the Marine Park Civic Association, opened in March 2013.[9] 
The building's “green” elements include solar panels, a geothermal heating 
and cooling system, and a green roof. Because of these energy-saving features, 
the Parks Department is seeking LEED Silver certification for the building.[10] 
The park's playground, several sports fields, and 0.83 mile-long running 
path were all built on the ancient Keshawchqueren burial ground.[11] Brick 
row houses on Gerritsen Avenue Old building Porch on a row house Row houses 
in winter Row houses in fall The Hendrick I. Lott House, in the neighborhood 
Coordinates: 40°35′53″N 73°55′15″W﻿ / ﻿40.59804°N 73.92083°W﻿ / 40.59804; 
