Mario Superstar Baseball, known in Japan as Super Mario Stadium Miracle 
Baseball (スーパーマリオスタジアム ミラクルベースボール, Sūpā Mario Sutajiamu Mirakuru Bēsubōru?) 
is a sports game that was developed by Namco and NOW Production and published 
by Nintendo for the GameCube in 2005. The game was created in the vein 
of other Mario sports games such as Mario Golf: Toadstool Tour and Mario 
Power Tennis. This game is now a Player's Choice title. A sequel, Mario 
Super Sluggers, was released for the Wii in 2008.[1] Gameplay mainly focuses 
on the player assuming the role of many Mario series characters to challenge 
any opposing teams compatible in the Challenge Mode, the final being Bowser, 
having baseball matches to see who will win the Cup of the mode. Other 
playable modes include Exhibition Mode, in which players choose the leader 
and the other rosters in the team and challenge another team to a single 
baseball game, and Minigames where the player must complete a certain mission. 
A common power-up in the game is a charged swing, a hit by a baseball bat 
performed by a character that will give the ball a strong hit, causing 
the length of a normal hit baseball to be twice as powerful. Overall, the 
game was well received by critics, gaining an 8 out of 10 from GameSpot.[2] 
A single game of baseball, players choose the Team Captain and a roster 
of players, and play one game. Players can choose which team bats first. 
Players can also choose how many innings the game will last, and pick their 
choice out of six unique stadiums. Bowser's Castle can be unlocked after 
beating Challenge Mode. The heart of Mario Superstar Baseball is the Challenge 
Mode. It is a single-player mode where the player selects a pre-built team 
and must defeat all the other teams; at first Bowser's team is the last 
team to beat for the cup, and must be unlocked before the player can use 
him. There are six teams, each led by one of the Captains (Mario, Peach, 
Yoshi, Donkey Kong, Wario and Bowser), features a secondary captain (Luigi, 
Daisy, Birdo, Diddy Kong, Waluigi and Bowser Jr.), and is filled with a 
mix of sub characters, some of which are duplicated within a team, but 
do not appear on any other team. For example, aside from the aforementioned 
captains and sub-captains, Mario's team consists of Monty Mole, 3 Piantas 
and 3 Nokis, Princess Peach's team consists of Toadette, Toadsworth, and 
5 Toads, Wario's team consists of Boo, King Boo, Petey Piranha, and 4 Magikoopas, 
Yoshi's team consists of Baby Mario, Baby Luigi and 5 Shy Guys, Donkey 
Kong's team consists of Dixie Kong, Goomba, Paragoomba, 2 Paratroopas, 
and 2 Koopa Troopas, and Bowser's team consists of 4 Dry Bones, Hammer 
Bro, Fire Bro, and Boomerang Bro (although Hammer Bro, Fire Bro and Boomerang 
Bro are separate characters (enemies) in the Mario series, in this game, 
it is actually just a color variation of the same character.). Players 
challenge the other teams, beating the other four opens the path to Bowser's 
castle. The secondary purpose of defeating other teams is to recruit other 
characters to improve ones team. On opposing teams, each character has 
a set of scouting flags. During the game players will have mission objectives 
like "Strike 'em out", or "Score a run", that earn flags; if one gets all 
the flags of a particular character and wins the game, that character will 
be recruited. If the player fails to complete a mission, he/she must wait 
for a while to complete another mission. Flags are cumulative, so if the 
player doesn't get all the flags in a game, or loses the game after getting 
all the flags, the flags earned will remain when the team is challenged 
again; a team can be challenged as long as the captain of the team is not 
recruited. Players of a different color can't be recruited and can only 
be played in minigames and playing with the teams they start on. If the 
team captain is recruited, his or her team will disband; any characters 
from that team that were not recruited will join a team led by Bowser Jr. 
Another way to recruit characters is by a mercy win; if either team is 
leading by at least 10 runs at the end of an inning, the game is called 
out of mercy to the losing team. If the player wins a game in this fashion, 
all characters on the opposing team will be so impressed that they will 
immediately join. After every game or minigame, Bowser Jr. will wander 
around the map; if the player runs into him, they will be forced to play 
a game in the bottom of the 9th inning, with the player randomly chosen 
as visitor or home. If the player's team is the visiting team, then they 
will have the lead and must stop Bowser Jr. from mounting a comeback; otherwise, 
it is the player's job to mount a comeback. Beating Bowser Jr. earns the 
player 100 coins to use in the shop, while losing costs the player half 
of their coins. It should be noted that in the event of having an odd coin 
count when losing to Bowser Jr., the coins will be rounded up. Bowser Jr.'s 
team also has players from disbanded teams that the player can recruit; 
in which case the only mission objective is "Win the game." There is a 
shop located on the map for purchasing power-ups, each worth a certain 
number of coins that the player earns from the minigames or Bowser Jr. 
In order for a Captain to use their special abilities, they must be purchased 
from the shop; these power-ups are permanent, and can be carried over into 
other Challenge Mode games by continuing from a previously cleared game. 
Other power-ups offer a temporary boost to a stat for all characters on 
their team, but they only last for one game, win or lose. A Toad runs the 
shop. Another goal during Challenge Mode is the Superstar quest; each character 
has a set of requirement that earn stars. If a character meets all of his 
or her requirements, then the character upgrades to a Superstar, and gets 
a boost in all their abilities. Also, once a character becomes a Superstar, 
the Superstar version of the character can be used in other game modes. 
There's a simple way to figure out the number of superstar missions per 
player. The captain of the team has 10 missions. The 2nd captain has eight. 
Minor characters have six. And characters of race (excluding Monty Mole 
who has six) have four. Note that players like Red Koopa and Black Shy 
Guy can be unlocked by completing the main changing color player like Blue 
Pianta & Blue Noki. The game rules that cannot be changed are as follows: 
Your team bats first, and the Star Skills and mercy are turned on. There 
are four difficulty settings for challenge mode that are similar to those 
of Mario Kart: Double Dash!! - Mushroom (easy), Flower (medium), Star (hard), 
and Special (very hard). On Mushroom, Flower, and Star difficulty setting, 
four other teams are challenged for three innings. After each team has 
been beaten at least once, Bowser is played for five innings. On Special 
difficulty setting, the innings change so that each team is played with 
two additional innings from before. Once the player clears Special difficulty, 
then Bowser is selectable as a team captain. When using him as a team captain, 
the rules slightly change: The other teams invade Bowser's castle, and 
Bowser must beat them in a game of baseball to win his castle back. Bowser 
has to beat the initial five teams, then they come together to form a team 
of captains led by Mario that Bowser must defeat; Bowser can still recruit 
other characters, except the captains and sub-captains; and because Bowser 
Jr. is on his team, he does not wander the map to challenge a player, so 
you must play minigames to earn coins. Using four players and a metallic 
field decked with large buttons (reminiscent of the old "pitch and bat" 
machines), players will either gain or lose coins depending on where the 
ball lands. There are several types of spaces the player can land on. When 
the ball is put into play, the player that retrieves the ball before it 
runs out of momentum will bat next. If the batters strikes out, the pitcher 
bats next. If the batter is struck out, they must give the pitcher 30 coins. 
If a batter is directly caught out, they must give the catcher 50 coins. 
If the ball is not caught before it runs out of momentum or 4 ball results 
are pitched, the batter gets another turn. The player with the most coins 
at the end of the game is the winner. The player gets to choose how many 
turns the game will last ranging from ten to fifty. All games are for 1–4 
players. Bob-omb Derby – Hit homers with Bob-ombs using a charged swing 
to gain points. Anything other than a homer is worth nothing. Get enough 
points to win. Wall Ball – Pitch balls to break a set of walls. The walls 
with musical notes on them are worth the most points if hit last, and hitting 
one of the Bowser walls last causes the player to lose half of their points, 
the points are than evenly distributed to the other players. The player 
with the most points after three pitching rounds wins. Chain Chomp Sprint 
– Collect as many diamonds as possible by running around the bases. If 
the Chain Chomp wakes up and you don't stop running, it will steal some 
of the diamonds from players that were moving when it awakens. The player 
with the most diamonds wins. Piranha Panic – Throw the colored eggs to 
its correctly colored Piranha Plant. Any egg can be thrown at the giant 
purple Piranha plant. The fire the plants spit out should be taken into 
consideration when a player throws an egg at the different colored Piranha 
Plant and another player's Bob-ombs. The player with the most points wins. 
Barrel Batter – Hit as many barrels as possible to gain points. After a 
certain number of barrels are blown, a special barrel appears for one pitch 
only. Hitting it destroys all the barrels. Get enough points to win. Star 
Dash – (must be unlocked) Collect as many coins as possible as they are 
shot out of a Coin Generator. Mushrooms sometimes come out, too. Red ones 
produce a speed boost, while purple ones grant the opposite effect. Stars 
will also sometimes appear. Anybody who touches a star becomes temporarily 
invincible, and can run into other characters to knock them out and steal 
their coins and can knock through obstacles around the generator. The player 
with the most coins wins. Grand Prix – (must be unlocked) All minigames 
are randomly chosen for player to place first out of four. First place 
is 10 points, second place is 6 points, third place is 3 points, and last 
place is zero points. If playing against a computer, it is automatically 
on special difficulty. The winner is whoever has the most points after 
all minigames are played. This is where players can practice the various 
controls for Mario Superstar Baseball. This includes batting, pitching, 
baserunning, and fielding. The game was met with positive reception, as 
GameRankings gave it a score of 76.70%,[3] while Metacritic gave it 76 
out of 100.[4] Robert Workman of GameDaily praised the game, as telling 
that "I found it to grow on me."[17] IGN praised the game, although also 
saying that "these high production values are not consistent throughout 
the experience."[13] This content is sourced from Facebook. Currently the 
world ranking system in Mario Baseball Superstar consists of three American 
players and seven Japanese players.[18] 1. Naoyuki Ohtsuka  Japan 2. Joshua 
Vetter  United States 3. Makoto Nakano  Japan 4. Takayuki Ozaki  Japan 
5. Hideki Kurosaki  Japan 6. Akira Iguchi  Japan 7. Andrew Garcia  United 
States 8. Sachiko Sato  Japan 9. Takashi Yoshida  Japan 10. Kyle Shadid 
