The Mariel boatlift was a mass emigration of Cubans, who traveled from 
Cuba's Mariel Harbor to the United States between 15 April and 31 October 
1980. The term "Marielito" (plural "Marielitos") is used to refer to these 
refugees in both Spanish and English. The boatlift was precipitated by 
a sharp downturn in the Cuban economy. After approximately 10,000 Cubans 
tried to gain asylum by taking refuge on the grounds of the Peruvian embassy, 
the Cuban government announced that anyone who wanted to leave could do 
so. The ensuing mass migration was organized by Cuban-Americans with the 
agreement of Cuban president Fidel Castro. The arrival of the refugees 
in the U.S. created political problems for U.S. president Jimmy Carter, 
first when his administration struggled to develop a consistent response 
to the immigrants and then when it was discovered that a number of the 
refugees had been released from Cuban jails and mental health facilities. 
The Mariel boatlift was ended by mutual agreement between the two governments 
in late October 1980, after as many as 125,000 Cubans had reached Florida. 
In the late 1970s, the administration of U.S. President Jimmy Carter sought 
to improve relations between the U.S. and Cuba. He lifted all restrictions 
on US travel to Cuba, and in September 1977, Cuba and the U.S. each established 
an Interest Section in the other's capital. However, relations were still 
strained because Cuba contributed troops to support the Soviet Union's 
military intervention in Africa and the Middle East.[1] The two countries 
struggled to reach agreement on a relaxation of the U.S. embargo on trade 
to permit the importation of a select list of medicines to Cuba without 
provoking Carter's political opponents in the U.S. Congress.[2] Ten members 
of Congress visited Cuba in December 1978, after which the Cuban government 
released an American who had managed a business in Cuba, been prevented 
from leaving in 1963, been accused of being a CIA agent, and sentenced 
to fifty years in prison.[3] A group of 55 people who had been brought 
from Cuba to the U.S. by their parents returned for three weeks in December 
1978, a rare instance of Cuba allowing the return of Cuban-born emigrés.[4] 
In December 1978 the two countries agreed upon their maritime border and 
the next month were working on an agreement to improve their communications 
in the Straits of Florida. The U.S. responded to Cuban relaxation of restrictions 
on emigration by allowing Cuban-Americans to send up to $500 to an emigrating 
relative.[5] In November 1978, the government of Fidel Castro met in Havana 
with a group of Cubans living in exile and agreed to grant an amnesty to 
3,600 political prisoners and announced that they would be freed in the 
course of the next year and allowed to leave Cuba.[6][7] Caribbean Holidays 
began offering one-week trips to Cuba in January 1978 in cooperation with 
Cubatur, the official Cuban travel agency.[8] By May 1979, tours were being 
organized for Americans to participate in the Cuban Festival of Art (Carifesta) 
in July, with flights departing from Tampa, Mexico City and Montreal.[9] 
Several attempts by Cubans to seek asylum at the embassies of South American 
countries set the stage for the events of the spring of 1980. On 21 March 
1978, two young black writers who had been punished for dissent and denied 
permission to emigrate, Reynaldo Colas Pineda and Esteban Luis Cardenas 
Junquera, sought asylum in the Argentine embassy in Havana without success. 
They were sentenced to years in prison.[10] On 13 May 1979, twelve Cubans 
sought to take asylum in the Venezuelan embassy in Havana, crashing their 
bus through a fence to gain entry to the grounds and the building.[11] 
In January 1980, groups of asylum-seekers took refuge in the Peruvian and 
Venezuelan embassies, and Venezuela called its ambassador home for consultations 
to protest the fact the Cuban police had fired on them.[12] Peru recalled 
its ambassador in March after he denied entry to a dozen Cubans seeking 
asylum in his embassy.[13] The embassy invasions then became a confrontation 
between the Cuban government and the Havana embassies. A group of Cubans 
attempted to enter the Peruvian embassy in the last week of March and on 
1 April a group of six driving a city bus was successful in doing so and 
a Cuban guard was killed by a ricocheting bullet.[14] The Peruvians announced 
they would not hand those seeking asylum over to Cuban police.[13] The 
embassy grounds contained two two-story buildings and gardens covering 
an area the size of a U.S. football field or 6400 sq. yds.[15]The Cuban 
government announced on 4 April that it was withdrawing its security forces, 
normally officers from the Interior Ministry armed with machine guns, from 
that embassy: "We cannot protect embassies that do not cooperate in their 
own protection." Following that announcement, about fifty Cubans entered 
the embassy grounds.[14] By nightfall on 5 April, that number had grown 
to 2,000, including many children and a few former political prisoners. 
Cuban officials announced through loudspeakers that anyone who had not 
entered the embassy grounds by force was free to emigrate provided another 
country would grant them entry. President Francisco Morales of Peru had 
announced a willingness to accept asylum-seekers. Diplomats from several 
countries met with the Peruvians to discuss the situation, including the 
crowd's food and shelter requirements. An official of the U.S. State Department 
stated on 5 April that the U.S. would grant asylum to bona fide political 
prisoners and handle other requests to immigrate following standard procedures,[13] 
which provided for the issuance of 400 immigrant visa per month to Cubans, 
with preference given to those with family members already in the U.S.[16] 
By 6 April the crowd had reached 10,000 and as sanitary conditions on the 
embassy grounds deteriorated Cuban authorities prevented further access.[17] 
The Cuban government called those seeking asylum "bums, antisocial elements, 
delinquents and trash".[15] By April 8, 3,700 of the asylum-seekers had 
accepted safe conduct passes to return to their homes and the government 
began providing shipments of food and water.[16] Peru tried to organize 
an international relief program,[18] and won commitments first from Bolivia, 
Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela to help with resettlement,[19] and then 
from Spain, which agreed to accept 500.[20] By April 11, the Cuban government 
began furnishing the asylum-seekers with documents that guaranteed their 
right to emigrate, including permanent safe-conduct passes and passports,[20] 
and in the first two days about 3,000 received those papers and left the 
grounds.[21] On April 14, U.S. President Jimmy Carter announced the U.S. 
would accept 3,500 refugees and that Costa Rica had agreed to provide a 
staging area for screening potential immigrants.[22] Castro ultimately 
on April 20 stated that the port of Mariel would be opened to anyone wishing 
to leave Cuba, as long as they had someone to pick them up.[24] While news 
of the situation was not broadcast in Cuba, Cuban exiles in the United 
States rushed to Key West and to docks in Miami to hire boats to transport 
people to the United States. Initially, the Carter administration had an 
open-door policy in regard to Cuban immigrants. Cubans who reached the 
United States were immediately granted refugee status. Public opinion towards 
Cuban political refugees was also favorable. Dozens of watercraft arrived 
daily. Some 706 refugees were counted on the Red Diamond alone. One craft 
lost power 60 miles from Key West and had to be towed to the U.S. mainland. 
Not all vessels that arrived at Truman Annex were carrying Cubans. Canadians 
were held for weeks in Mariel Harbor before being allowed to leave. Refugees 
were processed at camps set up in the greater Miami area, generally at 
decommissioned missile defense sites. Other sites were established at the 
Orange Bowl and various churches throughout the area. Some sites were established 
to segregate the refugees until they could be provided with initial processing 
at places like the Nike-Hercules sites at Key Largo and Krome Avenue. Once 
initially processed and documented, the refugees were quickly transferred 
to larger compounds in the metropolitan area so they could be reunited 
with relatives already living in the US as well as to allow interaction 
with various social action agencies like Catholic Charities, the American 
Red Cross, and others. At these initial processing sites the undesirable 
elements were identified and segregated from the general population. As 
the Haitian refugees started arriving, interpreters were found to be in 
short supply for Haitian Creole and interpreters from the local Haitian 
community were put under contract through the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency (FEMA). As the end of the initial crisis period wound down and after 
the vetting of those refugees who could be sponsored had run its course, 
the decision was made to transfer the "hard to sponsor" refugees, which 
included those with criminal records, to longer-term processing sites at 
Fort Chaffee, AR , Fort Indiantown Gap, PA and Fort McCoy, Wisconsin. This 
situation changed when it was discovered that the refugees included criminals 
and people from Cuba's mental hospitals.[25] However, according to the 
Brookings Institution Study in 1980, the vast majority of Mariel refugees 
(technically Cuban-Haitian entrants-status pending) had blue collar skills 
which matched perfectly with the labor force in Miami at that time. While 
Castro did send criminals and mentally ill people, most Mariels were not.[citation 
needed] The Cuban government eventually closed the Mariel harbor to would-be 
emigrants. Approximately 125,000 Cubans arrived at the United States' shores 
in about 1,700 boats, creating large waves of people that overwhelmed the 
U.S. Coast Guard. Twenty-seven migrants died, including fourteen on an 
overloaded boat that capsized on 17 May 1980. Upon their arrival, many 
Cubans were placed in refugee camps. Others were held in federal prisons 
pending deportation hearings. Crowded conditions in South Florida immigration 
processing centers forced U.S. federal agencies to move many of the Marielitos 
to other centers in Fort Indiantown Gap, Pennsylvania, Fort McCoy, Wisconsin, 
Camp Santiago, Puerto Rico, and Fort Chaffee, Arkansas. Federal civilian 
police agencies such as the General Services Administration's Federal Protective 
Service provided officers to maintain order inside the gates of the relocation 
centers. Riots occurred at the Fort Chaffee center and some detainees escaped 
which became a campaign issue in the re-election defeat of Governor Bill 
Clinton. The majority of refugees were ordinary Cubans. Many had been allowed 
to leave Cuba for reasons which, in the United States, were either loyalty-neutral 
or protected: tens of thousands were Seventh-Day Adventists or Jehovah's 
Witnesses, for example. Some had been declared "anti-socialista" by their 
block Committees back in Cuba. In the end, only 2.2% (or 2,746) of the 
refugees were classified as serious or violent criminals under U.S. law 
and denied citizenship on that basis.[26] As the scale of the boatlift 
grew, the Coast Guard asked for help. In May 1980 the U.S. Navy dispatched 
the USS Saipan (LHA-2) and the USS Boulder (LST-1190) to support the Coast 
Guard by assisting, but not directly transporting, refugees en route to 
the U.S. Saipan and Boulder took on board hundreds of refugees in need 
of humanitarian assistance, medical attention, food, fresh water. They 
also refueled private watercraft. The ships' officers and crew were awarded 
the Humanitarian Service Medal for their work. Elements of the 1st Battalion, 
6th Marines, 2nd Marine Division of Camp Lejeune, N.C., supported the Immigration 
and Naturalization Service by provided security at Trumbo Point and Truman 
Annex in May 1980. The Marines supplied interpreters and assisted with 
processing refugees in Key West. They were awarded the Humanitarian Service 
Medal and a Certificate of Appreciation for exemplary service. F-4 "Phantom" 
fighter aircraft from VMFA-312 and later VMFA-251 based at MCAS Beaufort, 
South Carolina, provided air cover, and those marines also received the 
Humanitarian Service Medal. In May 1980, the U.S. Army dispatched the 503rd 
Military Police Battalion of the XVIII Airborne Corps at Fort Bragg, North 
Carolina, to relieve the Florida National Guard units who had been mobilized 
to handle security and operations at the refugee compounds established 
in the Miami metropolitan area. The 503rd was augmented by Spanish-speaking 
soldiers of the 96th Civil Affairs and Psychological Warfare elements of 
the JFK Special Warfare Center at Fort Bragg. The US Army Military Police 
Corps worked alongside FEMA and the U.S. Bureau of Prisons and other federal 
agencies to transfer refugees for longterm detention. U.S. Army personnel 
who participated in this operation were awarded the Humanitarian Service 
Medal. About half of the Mariel immigrants decided to reside in Miami permanently, 
which resulted in a seven percent increase in workers in the Miami labor 
market and a 20 percent increase in the Cuban working population.[27] Aside 
from the unemployment rate rising from 5.0% in April 1980 to 7.1% in July, 
the actual damage to the economy was marginal and followed trends across 
the United States at the time. When observing data from 1979 to 1985 on 
the Miami labor market and comparing it to similar data from several other 
major cities across the United States, focusing on wages, the effects of 
the boatlift were marginal.[28] The wages for white Americans remained 
steady in both Miami and comparable cities. The wage rates for African 
Americans were relatively steady from 1979 to 1985 when in comparable cities 
it dropped. Aside from a dip in 1983, wage rates for Non-Cuban Hispanics 
were stable, while in comparable cities it fell approximately six percent. 
There is no evidence of a negative effect on wage rates for other groups 
of Hispanics in Miami. Wages for Cubans demonstrated a steady decline especially 
compared to other groups in Miami at the time. This can be attributed exclusively 
to the "dilution" of the group with the new, less-experienced and lower-earning 
Mariel immigrants, meaning that there is also no evidence of a negative 
effect on wage rates for Cubans residing in Miami prior to 1980.[27] The 
Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980 provided $100 million in cash, 
medical and social services (Senator Stone and Congressman Fascell) and 
authorized approximately $5 million per year to facilitate the Mariel refugees' 
transition to American life. The 1980 Census was also adjusted to include 
Mariel children to ensure that additional assistance would be available 
to them through the Miami-Dade County Public Schools via Title I of the 
Elementary and Secondary Assistance Act (ESEA). In 2016 Harvard economist 
George Borjas decided to revisit David Card's analysis in light of new 
insights into immigration effects since 1990. He used the same CPS data. 
However, he focused only on workers that were The last characteristics 
is important, because 60 percent of Marielitos did not complete high school. 
And even many of those of the rest 40 percent, who did, were looking for 
unskilled jobs due to their lack of linguistic and other skills. So Marielitos 
competed directly with high school dropouts. Borjas next compared the inflation-adjusted 
wages of Miami residents, who had these characteristics, to wages of the 
same segment of the American population in all other American metropolitan 
areas but Miami. His analysis shows that the Miami wages for native-born 
men without high school diplomas were much lower than for similar workers 
in other US metropolitan areas during the 1980s and then again in the late 
1990s, following the two spikes of Cubans migrating to Miami. During the 
1980s Miami wages were 20 percent lower than elsewhere, a very substantial 
effect.[29][30] The boatlift has been the subject of a number of works 
of art, media, and entertainment. Examples include: The events at the Peruvian 
