Mario Impemba (born March 18, 1963) is an American sportscaster, currently 
the TV voice of the Detroit Tigers and the radio voice of the Oakland Golden 
Grizzlies men's basketball team. Impemba is a 1981 graduate of Stevenson 
High School in Sterling Heights, Michigan [1] and Michigan State University.[2] 
In high school Mario showed the first flashes of his talent as a member 
to the school's forensic team.[citation needed] He won numerous invitational 
tournaments before finishing 3rd in the state final tournament.[citation 
needed] At Michigan State University, Impemba volunteered to announce whatever 
games were being broadcast on the university sports network. As a professional, 
he started out announcing games for the Peoria Chiefs single-A baseball 
club in 1987.[3] Impemba also served as the sports director at WXCL Radio 
and the play-by-play voice of the Peoria Rivermen of the now-defunct International 
Hockey League during the 1987-88 season.[3] From 1989 to 1990, Mario served 
as the voice of the Quad City Angels single-A team in Davenport, Iowa. 
In 1991, Impemba began calling games for the Tucson Toros of the Pacific 
Coast League.[3] Impemba served as the radio (KLAA) and fill-in television 
(Fox Sports West and KCOP-TV) play-by-play voice of the Anaheim Angels 
for seven seasons (1995–2001).[2] Mario joined the Fox Sports Detroit broadcast 
team in 2002 as the Detroit Tigers play-by-play announcer.[2] Mario is 
teamed up with color commentators Rod Allen, Kirk Gibson, and Jack Morris 
on the telecasts.[2] During the baseball offseason, Impemba is the official 
radio voice of the Oakland University Golden Grizzlies men's basketball 
team on WDFN (1130 AM) as well as games on Fox Sports Detroit.[2] Impemba 
always announces the game's attendance when there is one 'out' left in 
the game, and usually rounds down, for example "Bottom of the ninth, two 
'outs', the Tigers are about to win in front of a crowd of better than 
41,000 fans - 41,212 to be exact". Impemba is also known for calling any 
catch in which the outfielder holds the glove with palm up a "basket catch". 
Impemba, along with Rod Allen, called Armando Galarraga's near-perfect 
game on June 2, 2010. After Jim Joyce made a mistake and called what would 
have been the final 'out' "safe" (the Tigers would get the next Indians 
batter out to end the game), Impemba stated that he "never felt this disappointed 
after a Tigers victory." Impemba is a longtime active member of the Detroit 
Sports Broadcasters Association (DSBA), founded in 1948 by pioneer Detroit 
Tigers announcer Ty Tyson.[3] Mario has a Tigers blog named "Last Call", 
as well as a website, marioimpemba.com Mario won a Michigan Emmy Award 
in June 2006 in the sports play-by-play category.[2] He won the 2014 DSBA 
Ty Tyson Award for Excellence in Sports Broadcasting and received the award 
in a special pre-game on-field ceremony at Comerica Park. Impemba also 
does voiceover work in commercials for several Metro Detroit companies. 
Mario's wife is named Cathy. The couple have 2 sons: Brett (18) and Daniel 
(15). The Impembas live in Macomb County, Michigan.[1] Brett was drafted 
in the 49th round of the 2011 Major League Baseball Draft by the Detroit 
Tigers, and is committed to playing baseball for Oakland University.[4] 
