Marine Corps Base Camp Pendleton is the major West Coast base of the United 
States Marine Corps. It is located on the Southern California coast, in 
San Diego County, and bordered by Oceanside to the south, Cleveland National 
Forest, Orange and Riverside counties to the north, and Fallbrook to the 
east. The base is split into North and South and was established in 1942 
to train U.S. Marines for service in World War II. By October 1944, Camp 
Pendleton was declared a "permanent installation" and by 1946, it became 
the home of the 1st Marine Division. It was named after Major General Joseph 
Henry Pendleton (1860–1942), who had long advocated setting up a training 
base for the Marine Corps on the west coast. Today it is the home to myriad 
Operating Force units including the I Marine Expeditionary Force and various 
training commands. In 1769, a Spanish expedition led by Captain Gaspar 
de Portolá explored northward from Loreto, Baja California Sur, seeking 
to reach Monterey Bay, something never before done overland by Europeans. 
On July 20 of that year, the expedition arrived in the area now known as 
Camp Pendleton, and as it was the holy day of St. Margaret, they christened 
the land in the name of Santa Margarita. The expedition went on to establish 
military outposts and Franciscan missions at San Diego and Monterey. During 
the next 30 years, 21 missions were established, the most productive one 
being Mission San Luis Rey, just south of the present-day Camp Pendleton.[2] 
At that time, San Luis Rey Mission had control over the Santa Margarita 
area. After 1821, following the Mexican War of Independence from Spain, 
some of the former members of the Portolà expedition who had stayed on 
(mostly garrison soldiers) were awarded large land grants (ranchos) by 
Mexican governors. The retired soldiers were joined as rancheros by prominent 
businessmen, officials and military leaders. They and their children, the 
Californios, became the landed gentry of Alta California. In 1841, two 
brothers, Pio Pico and Andrés Pico, became the first private owners of 
Rancho Santa Margarita. More land was later added to the grant, giving 
it the name of Rancho Santa Margarita y Las Flores, which stayed with the 
ranch until the Marine Corps acquired it in 1942. The design of the ranch's 
cattle brand is seen in the base's logo today.[3] In 1863, an Englishman 
named John (Don Juan) Forster (Pio Pico's brother-in-law) paid off Pico's 
gambling debts in return for the deed to the ranch. During his tenure as 
owner of the ranch, he expanded the ranch house, which was first built 
in 1827, and developed the rancho into a thriving cattle industry. Forster's 
heirs, however, were forced to sell the ranch in 1882 because of a string 
of bad luck, which included a series of droughts and a fence law that forced 
Forster to construct fencing around the extensive rancho lands. It was 
purchased by wealthy cattleman James Clair Flood and managed by Irishman 
Richard O'Neill, who was eventually rewarded for his faithful service with 
half ownership. Under the guidance of O'Neill's son, Jerome, the ranch 
began to net a profit of nearly half a million dollars annually, and the 
house was modernized and furnished to its present form. In the early 1940s, 
both the Army and the Marine Corps were looking for land for a large training 
base. The Army lost interest in the project, but in February 1942 it was 
announced that the 122,798 acres (497 km2) of Rancho Santa Margarita y 
Los Flores was about to be transformed into the largest Marine Corps base 
in the country.[4] It was named for Major General Joseph Henry Pendleton 
who had long advocated the establishment of a West Coast training base. 
Construction began in April but the base was considered a temporary facility 
so it was built to minimum standards of wood frame construction.[4] After 
five months of furious building activity, the 9th Marine Regiment, under 
then Colonel Lemuel C. Shepherd Jr., marched from Camp Elliott in San Diego 
to Camp Pendleton to be the first troops to occupy the new base. On September 
25, 1942, President Franklin D. Roosevelt officially dedicated the base.[5] 
Wartime training facilities at the base included landing craft school, 
amphibious tractor school, beach battalion school, amphibious communications 
school, and a medical field service school at the naval hospital at Santa 
Margarita Ranch. This facility was also used as a base for discharging 
soldiers returning from Europe and Asia after World War II ended in 1945, 
and for the processing of their discharge documents for same.[6] During 
the Korean War, $20 million helped expand and upgrade existing facilities, 
including the construction of Camp Horno. When Camp Pendleton trained the 
country's fighting force for the Korean and Vietnam Wars, approximately 
200,000 Marines passed through the base on their way to the Far East. Beginning 
in 1954, Camp Pendleton has hosted a variation of Basic Training familiarization 
for teenagers age 14 to 17. This training, called "Devil Pups", promotes 
physical fitness, instills discipline and promotes love of country and 
the Marine Corps.[7] The camp's stables display a plaque and statue commemorating 
a horse, Sergeant Reckless, which served with the Marine Corps in Korea.[8] 
In 1975 Camp Pendleton was the first military base in the U.S. to provide 
accommodations for Vietnamese evacuees in Operation New Arrivals; over 
50,000 refugees came to the base in the largest humanitarian airlift in 
history.[9][10][11] Camp Pendleton has continued to grow through renovations, 
replacing its original tent camps with more than 2,626 buildings and over 
500 miles of roads. Efforts today continue to preserve the heritage of 
Camp Pendleton's founders and the Marine Corps' history. The original ranch 
house has been declared a National Historic Site as well as the Las Flores 
Adobe. The base's diverse geography, spanning over 125,000 acres (506 km2), 
plays host to year-round training for Marines in addition to all other 
branches of the U.S. military. Amphibious and sea-to-shore training takes 
place at several key points along the base's 17 miles (27 km) of coastline. 
The main base is in the Mainside Complex, at the southeastern end of the 
base, and the remote northern interior is an impact area. Daytime population 
is around 100,000. Recruits from nearby Marine Corps Recruit Depot, San 
Diego spend a month on Pendleton's Edson Range receiving field training, 
and after graduating from boot camp return to the base's School of Infantry 
for further training. Camp Pendleton remains the last major undeveloped 
portion of the California coastline south of Santa Barbara, save for a 
few relatively small state parks. In 2015 the site was proposed for a large 
civilian airport [12] Since August 2004, Camp Pendleton has been one of 
five locations in the Department of Defense to operate the Standard Terminal 
Automation Replacement System (STARS) air radar. The STARS radar allows 
the facility to simulate air traffic for training purposes.[citation needed] 
Camp Pendleton's five-man color guard has participated in many sporting 
events in San Diego and at the 1996 Republican National Convention, accompanying 
national anthem performers. Among the more famous performers who were accompanied 
by the Camp Pendleton color guard have been Frankie Laine, Herb Alpert, 
Wilson Phillips, Jewel, Trisha Yearwood and the Dixie Chicks, all of whom 
had performed the National Anthem at either a World Series game, Super 
Bowl, or, in Wilson Phillips' case, a Major League Baseball All-Star Game 
that was played at what is now Qualcomm Stadium. Camp Pendleton was built 
on a wide swath of coastal land that once supported an estuary at the mouth 
of the Santa Margarita River and extensive salt marsh habitat.[13] Outlying 
land within the base is made up of floodplain, oak woodlands, coastal dunes 
and bluffs, coastal sage scrub, chaparral, and several types of wetlands, 
including ephemeral wetlands such as vernal pools.[14] Wildfire is not 
uncommon.[14] Research in ecology takes place in undeveloped areas of base, 
which contain examples of rare and endangered California habitat types. 
The Department of Defense has issued management plans for various ecosystems 
on this territory.[14] Land within the base still includes breeding habitat 
for birds such as the western snowy plover[13] and California gnatcatcher.[15] 
The coastal bluffs have many of the few existing specimens of the Pendleton 
button-celery, which was named for the base.[16] Rare mammals on the base 
include the Pacific pocket mouse and Stephens' kangaroo rat.[14] Non-native 
American bison were introduced in the 1970s and are known to roam throughout 
