Mark Edward Wohlers (born January 23, 1970) is a former professional baseball 
pitcher. A right-hander, he played all or part of twelve seasons in Major 
League Baseball, exclusively as a relief pitcher. He is best known for 
his years with the Atlanta Braves from 1991 to 1999. He is the third fastest 
recorded pitcher in baseball history, having thrown a pitch recorded at 
103 miles per hour during a spring training session in 1995; the record 
was broken by Detroit Tigers pitcher Joel Zumaya with a 104 mph (167 km/h) 
pitch. A 1988 graduate of Holyoke High School,[1] Wohlers was selected 
in the eighth round of the 1988 amateur draft by the Braves. He went on 
to make his major league debut with the Braves on August 17, 1991. Less 
than a month later, on September 11, Wohlers teamed with fellow Braves 
hurlers Kent Mercker and Alejandro Peña for a combined no-hitter against 
the San Diego Padres; Wohlers pitched two innings in relief of Mercker. 
After spending the following three seasons as a setup pitcher, Wohlers 
was given the job as a closer in 1995. He went on to record 97 saves over 
the next three seasons, also saving the 1–0 victory in the clinching Game 
6 of the 1995 World Series, establishing himself as one of the best closers 
in the majors. Wohlers' success would not last forever. In Game 4 of the 
1996 World Series against the New York Yankees, Wohlers gave up a stunning 
3-run home run to Jim Leyritz that tied the game at 6. After this, the 
momentum of the Series shifted and the Yankees won it in six games. Many 
observe that Wohlers was never the same after that. In 1998, he seemed 
to lose all ability to control his pitches. He spent part of the season 
at Triple-A Richmond, but still finished the season with a major league 
earned run average of 10.18. His control problems were dramatic. In 20⅓ 
major league innings, Wohlers walked 33 batters. After being sent down 
to Triple-A, Wohlers walked 36 batters in only 12⅓ innings. His symptoms 
were a prime example of what is commonly known as Steve Blass disease – 
a psychological block which manifests itself when baseball players overthink 
the act of throwing a baseball and consequently become unable to throw 
with any sort of control. He began the following season in a similar fashion: 
in two outings he recorded an ERA of 27.00 in ⅔ of an inning, with 6 walks. 
The Atlanta faithful, although frustrated with Wohlers' seemingly constant 
fastballs to the backstop or behind batters, rallied behind the embattled 
pitcher and would fervently cheer him on whenever he was in the game. After 
being recalled from Richmond, he entered a game and recorded a strikeout, 
his first in months, and received a rousing standing ovation from the crowd 
at Turner Field. On April 16, 1999, the Braves traded Wohlers to the Cincinnati 
Reds in return for John Hudek. The day after signing for the Reds he was 
put on the disabled list with an anxiety disorder. While undergoing treatment 
for his anxiety, Wohlers had Tommy John surgery on his elbow, which ended 
his season. Wohlers returned to baseball for the 2000 season in his old 
role as a setup man. He split the following season between the Reds and 
the Yankees before being traded to the Cleveland Indians prior to the 2002 
season. In his first season with the Indians, Wohlers recorded an ERA of 
4.79, with seven saves, three wins, four losses, and a much improved walk 
ratio. After experiencing pain in his right elbow in spring training before 
the 2003 season, Wohlers had an operation to remove several bone chips, 
ruling him out for the first two months of the season. Unfortunately, his 
season ended in the second game of his rehabilitation assignment at Double-A 
Akron when he ruptured the tendon graft he had had in his elbow in 1999. 
He had Tommy John surgery for the second time in August of that year, which 
should have allowed him to return for the 2004 season. However, Wohlers 
decided not to return due to personal reasons and was released by the Indians. 
He did not return to baseball, although he never formally announced his 
retirement. His career record is 39–29 with an ERA of 3.97 and 119 saves. 
In the early morning of March 1, 2011, Mark's home in Milton, Georgia, 
caught fire, burnt down in under an hour, and was considered a "total loss" 
by the local fire department. However, some of Mark's sports memorabilia 
was recovered from his basement. He has credited his wife, Kimberly, with 
getting him, his two sons, and youngest daughter out of the house in time.[2] 
His eldest daughter was not present at the time of the fire. He and his 
wife currently run an Atlanta real estate business called Team Wohlers, 
a Keller Williams realty.[3] Wohlers was one of three Atlanta Braves to 
appear on Saturday Night Live when he made a cameo appearance alongside 
teammates Gerald Williams and Pedro Borbón, Jr. on the December 13, 1997, 
