Mark Steven Fidrych (/ˈfɪdrᵻtʃ/; August 14, 1954 – April 13, 2009), nicknamed 
"The Bird", was a Major League Baseball pitcher. He pitched his entire 
career for the Detroit Tigers (1976–1980). In 1976, Fidrych led the major 
leagues with a 2.34 ERA, won the AL Rookie of the Year award, and finished 
with a 19–9 record. Shortly after, injuries piled up and his major league 
career ended after just five seasons. The son of an assistant school principal, 
Fidrych played baseball at Algonquin Regional High School in Northborough, 
Massachusetts, and at Worcester Academy, a day and boarding school in central 
Massachusetts. In the 1974 amateur draft he was selected in the 10th round 
by the Detroit Tigers and later joked that when he got a call saying he 
had been drafted he thought he was drafted into the military not thinking 
there were any teams looking at him. In the minor leagues one of his coaches 
with the Lakeland Tigers dubbed the lanky 6-foot-3 right-handed pitcher 
"The Bird" because of his resemblance to the "Big Bird" character of the 
Sesame Street television program.[1] Fidrych made the Tigers as a non-roster 
invitee out of the 1976 spring training, not making his Major League debut 
until April 20, and only pitching one inning through mid-May. He made his 
first start in the Tigers' 24th game of the season, on May 15 against the 
Cleveland Indians, and only because the scheduled starting pitcher had 
the flu. Fidrych responded by throwing six no-hit innings, ending the game 
with a 2–1 complete game victory in which he gave up only two hits. The 
first hit he gave up was a single to Buddy Bell. Fidrych drew attention 
for talking to the ball during the game‚ and patting down the mound each 
inning. After the game, Rico Carty of the Indians said he thought Fidrych 
"was trying to hypnotize them."[2] On May 31 and June 5, in his third and 
fourth career starts, Fidrych earned 11-inning complete game wins. From 
May 31 to July 3, Fidrych won seven decisions in a row, bringing his win-loss 
record to 9-1.[3] On July 9, pitching in front of a sell-out crowd (51,041) 
at Tiger Stadium, Fidrych held the Royals to one run in nine innings, but 
Dennis Leonard shut out the Tigers 1–0. Fidrych was named a 1976 AL All-Star; 
he gave up two runs in the All-Star Game and earned the loss in the game. 
Fidrych won his 10th game, a 1–0 victory over the A's, on July 16. Four 
days later in Minneapolis, before Fidrych's 13th start, the Twins released 
13 homing pigeons on the mound before the game. According to Fidrych, "they 
tried to do that to blow my concentration."[4] Fidrych pitched another 
complete game and got his 11th win, 8–3. On July 24, Fidrych lasted only 
4 1⁄3 innings but John Hiller got the win in relief. After the July 24 
game, Fidrych was interviewed on live television, and a small controversy 
arose when Fidrych said "bullshit" on the air. Fidrych recalled: "He (NBC 
commentator Tony Kubek) said, it looked like you were gonna cry. I just 
said, No, I wasn't about to cry. I was just bullshit.... And then I said, 
excuse me. I said, I didn't mean to swear on the air but I just showed 
you my feelings."[5] The next day, Fidrych received a telegram informing 
he had been fined $250 by baseball commissioner Bowie Kuhn, but it was 
a prank sent by his own teammates.[6][7] On July 29 and August 7, Fidrych 
threw consecutive six-hit complete games. He won one of the games and lost 
the other. The Tigers beat the Rangers, 4–3, on August 11 as Fidrych notched 
his 13th win over Gaylord Perry. Six days later, the Tigers drew a season-high 
51,822 fans as Fidrych went to 14–4, beating opposing pitcher Frank Tanana 
3-2. On August 25, the Tigers beat the White Sox, 3–1, in front of 40,000 
fans on a Wednesday night in Detroit. Fidrych held the White Sox to five 
hits in a game that lasted only one hour and 48 minutes. Between August 
29 and September 17, Fidrych lost three consecutive decisions, bringing 
his record to 16-9.[3] Fidrych beat the Indians two starts in a row on 
September 21 and 28. In his last start of the 1976 season, Fidrych got 
his 19th win, beating the Brewers, 4–1, giving up five hits.[3] A month 
later, Fidrych was announced as the runner-up for the Cy Young Award, with 
Jim Palmer taking the award. Fidrych won the AL Rookie of the Year Award 
and was named Tiger of the Year by the Detroit baseball writers. He led 
MLB in ERA (2.34), Adjusted ERA+ (158) and led the AL in complete games 
(24). He finished in the top five in several other statistical categories, 
including wins, win percentage, shutouts, walks plus hits per innings pitched 
(WHIP), and bases on balls per nine innings pitched. He got the 11th-highest 
vote total in the year's AL MVP voting. In Fidrych's 18 home starts in 
1976, he compiled a 12-6 record while the Tigers averaged 33,649 fans; 
the team drew an average of only 13,843 in his non-starts.[8] During the 
offseason between the 1976 and 1977 seasons, Fidrych published an autobiography 
with Tom Clark titled No Big Deal. Fidrych tore the cartilage in his knee 
fooling around in the outfield during spring training in 1977.[9] He picked 
up where he left off after his return from the injury, but about six weeks 
after his return, during a July 4 game against Baltimore, he felt his arm 
just, in his words, "go dead." It was a torn rotator cuff, but it would 
not be diagnosed until 1985.[10] Fidrych managed to finish the season 6–4 
with a 2.89 ERA and was again invited to the All-Star Game, but he declined 
the invitation due to injury. Still on the disabled list toward the end 
of the season, Fidrych worked as a guest color analyst on a Monday Night 
Baseball telecast for ABC; he was subsequently criticized for his lack 
of preparation, as when play-by-play partner Al Michaels tried talking 
with him about Philadelphia Phillies player Richie Hebner and Fidrych responded, 
"Who's Richie Hebner?"[11] As an American League player, Fidrych had never 
had to face Hebner, who played in the National League. He pitched only 
three games in 1978, winning two. On August 12, 1980, 48,361 fans showed 
up at Tiger Stadium to see what turned out to be his last attempt at a 
comeback. Fidrych pitched his last MLB game on October 1, 1980 in Toronto, 
going five innings and giving up four earned runs, while picking up the 
win in an 11–7 Tigers victory which was televised in Detroit. At the end 
of the 1981 season, Detroit gave Fidrych his outright release and he signed 
as a free agent with the Boston Red Sox, playing for one of their minor 
league teams. However, his torn rotator cuff, still undiagnosed and untreated, 
never healed. At age 29, he was forced to retire. After seeing everyone 
from chiropractors to hypnotists, Fidrych went to famed sports doctor James 
Andrews in 1985. Dr. Andrews discovered the torn rotator cuff and operated; 
still, the damage already done to the shoulder effectively ended Fidrych's 
chance of coming back to a professional baseball career. Fidrych remained 
cheerful and upbeat. In a 1998 interview, when asked who he would invite 
to dinner if he could invite anyone in the world, Fidrych said, "My buddy 
and former Tigers teammate Mickey Stanley, because he's never been to my 
house." Fidrych lived with his wife Ann, whom he married in 1986, on a 
107-acre (0.43 km2) farm in Northborough. They had a daughter, Jessica. 
Aside from fixing up his farmhouse, he worked as a contractor hauling gravel 
and asphalt in a ten-wheeler. On weekends, he helped out in his mother-in-law's 
business, Chet's Diner on route 20 in Northborough, currently operated 
by his daughter. He would also frequent the local baseball field to help 
teach and play ball with the kids. Fidrych also captured the imagination 
of fans with his antics on the field. He would crouch down on the pitcher's 
mound and fix cleat marks, what became known as "manicuring the mound", 
talk to himself, talk to the ball, aim the ball like a dart, strut around 
the mound after every out, and throw back balls that "had hits in them", 
insisting they be removed from the game. Mark Fidrych also was known for 
shaking everyone's hands after a game. On June 28, 1976, he pitched against 
the New York Yankees in a nationally televised game on ABC; the Tigers 
won the game 5–1. After a game filled with "Bird" antics in which he and 
his team handily defeated the Yankees, Fidrych became a national celebrity. 
Every time he pitched, Tiger Stadium was jam-packed with fans who became 
known as "Bird Watchers". Fidrych's fan appeal was also enhanced by the 
fact that he had his own "personal catcher". Because Tigers coaching and 
managerial staff were somewhat superstitious about "jinxing" Fidrych's 
success, Bruce Kimm, a rookie catcher, caught each of Fidrych's outings. 
It became common to hear the crowd chant "we want the Bird, we want the 
Bird" at the end of each of his home victories. The chants would continue 
until he emerged from the dugout to tip his cap to the crowd. While these 
"curtain calls" have become more common in modern sports, they were not 
so in the mid-1970s baseball. In his 18 appearances at Tiger Stadium, attendance 
equaled almost half of the entire season's 81 home games. Teams started 
asking Detroit to change its pitching rotation so Fidrych could pitch in 
their ballparks, and he appeared on the cover of numerous magazines, such 
as Sports Illustrated (twice, including once with Sesame Street character 
Big Bird), Rolling Stone (as of 2015, the only baseball player ever to 
make the cover of the rock and roll magazine), and The Sporting News. In 
one week, Fidrych turned away five people who wanted to be his agent, saying, 
"Only I know my real value and can negotiate it." Fidrych also drew attention 
for the simple, bachelor lifestyle he led in spite of his fame, driving 
a green subcompact car, living in a small Detroit apartment, wondering 
aloud if he could afford to answer all of his fan mail on his league-minimum 
$16,500 salary, and telling people that if he hadn't been a pitcher, he'd 
work pumping gas in Northborough. He fascinated everyone, most especially 
young women, with his frizzy blond curls, blue jeans, and devil-may-care 
manner. At the end of his rookie season, the Tigers gave him a $25,000 
bonus and signed him to a three-year contract worth $255,000. Economists 
estimated that the extra attendance Fidrych generated around the league 
in 1976 was worth more than $1 million. Fidrych also did an Aqua Velva 
television commercial after the 1976 season. According to the Worcester 
District Attorney's office, a family friend found Fidrych dead beneath 
his ten-wheel dump truck at his Northborough home around 2:30 p.m, April 
13, 2009. He appeared to have been working on the truck at the time of 
the accident.[12] Authorities said Fidrych suffocated after his clothes 
had become entangled with a spinning power takeoff shaft on the truck. 
The state medical examiner's office ruled the death an accident, according 
to a release from the Worcester District Attorney's office.[13] Joseph 
Amorello, owner of a road construction company who had occasionally hired 
Fidrych to haul gravel or asphalt, had stopped by the farm to chat with 
him when he found the body underneath the dump truck. "We were just, in 
general, getting started for the [road-building] season this week and it 
seems as though his truck was going to be needed. It looked like he was 
doing some maintenance on it", Amorello said in a telephone interview. 
"I found him under the truck. There's not much more I can say. I dialed 
911 and that's all I could do."[14] Fidrych was inducted into the Shrine 
of the Eternals of the Baseball Reliquary in 2002.[15] At the time of his 
death he was about to be inducted into the National Polish-American Sports 
Hall of Fame.[16] He was inducted posthumously on June 18, 2009.[17][18] 
In one of Bill James' baseball books, he quoted the Yankees' Graig Nettles 
as telling about an at-bat against Fidrych, who, as usual, was talking 
to the ball before pitching to Nettles. Immediately Graig jumped out of 
the batter's box and started talking to his bat. He reportedly said, "Never 
mind what he says to the ball. You just hit it over the outfield fence!" 
Nettles struck out. "Damn", he said. "Japanese bat. Doesn't understand 
a word of English." Nettles actually hit Fidrych very well in his career, 
though, with a .389 average [7-for-18] and two home runs. On April 15, 
2009, the Tigers paid tribute to Fidrych at Comerica Park with a moment 
of silence and a video before their game against the Chicago White Sox.[19] 
Fidrych was inducted June 2009 into the National Polish-American Sports 
Hall of Fame and Museum. On June 19, 2009, Jessica Fidrych honored her 
father at Comerica Park by throwing out the ceremonial first pitch to manager 
Jim Leyland for the Tigers game against the Milwaukee Brewers. Prior to 
throwing the first pitch, Jessica "manicured the mound" just like her father. 
Ann Fidrych, widow of Mark Fidrych, was also present on the field for the 
ceremony.[20] The Baseball Project honored Fidrych in their song "1976".[21] 
A Detroit-based rock and roll band named Fidrych (after Mark Fidrych) included 
members of Jeremy Porter & The Tucos and Porchsleeper and was active between 
February 2009 and August 2010.[22] Henning, Lynn (April 14, 2009). "Former 
Tigers pitcher Mark 'The Bird' Fidrych dies at 54". The Detroit News.  
