Mark Buehrle of the Chicago White Sox pitched a perfect game against the 
Tampa Bay Rays by retiring all nine batters he faced three times each on 
Thursday, July 23, 2009. This event took place in U.S. Cellular Field in 
Chicago in front of 28,036 fans in attendance. This game took 2:03 from 
1:07 PM CT to 3:10 PM CT. It was the eighteenth perfect game and 263rd 
no-hitter in MLB history, second perfect game and seventeenth no-hitter 
in White Sox history. The previous perfect game in MLB history was on May 
18, 2004 when Randy Johnson of the Arizona Diamondbacks pitched a perfect 
game against the Atlanta Braves at Turner Field. The previous occasion 
a White Sox pitcher threw a perfect game was on April 30, 1922 when Charlie 
Robertson pitched a perfecto against the Detroit Tigers at Navin Field 
(later known as Tiger Stadium); that was the fifth perfect game in MLB 
history. Buehrle also logged his second career no-hitter; the first was 
against the Texas Rangers on April 18, 2007. He became the first pitcher 
to throw multiple no-hitters since Johnson.[1] Buehrle did this in the 
midst of setting a Major League record by retiring 45 consecutive batters 
over three games.[2] The umpire, Eric Cooper, who stood behind the plate 
for this perfect game was the same home plate umpire when Buehrle threw 
his first career no-hitter.[1] Ramón Castro was the catcher. At the time, 
the Rays were tied for the second-highest on-base percentage (.343) of 
any team, so they were one of the least likely to allow a perfect game.[3] 
Buehrle’s perfect game was to become the first of three perfect games and 
the first of four no-hitters allowed by Rays in less than three years: 
Mark Buehrle was a 38th round pick and 1139th overall in 1998 draft pick 
by the White Sox.[6] Buehrle made his major league debut on July 16, 2000, 
pitching one inning of relief while allowing a run to Milwaukee Brewers. 
Then he made his first starting appearance on July 19, pitching seven innings 
while allowing six hits and two runs to Minnesota Twins.[7] On April 18, 
2007 against the Texas Rangers at U.S. Cellular Field, Mark Buehrle threw 
his first career no-hitter. In that game, he threw 106 pitches and faced 
27 batters while allowing just one walk. After allowing a walk to Sammy 
Sosa in the fifth inning and one out after a 3–1 pitch, and he was promptly 
picked off from first base while facing the next batter.[8] This was the 
sixteenth no-hitter in White Sox history, the first one since August 11, 
1991 when Wilson Álvarez threw one at Memorial Stadium against the Baltimore 
Orioles and first at home since September 10, 1967 when Joel Horlen threw 
one against the Detroit Tigers.[9] Mark Buehrle was the 2009 Opening Day 
starter, which he took the victory as the Sox beat the Royals 4–2. Buehrle 
won five straight decisions to start the 2009 season. His record stood 
at 9–3 before the All-Star break and he was voted to the All-Star Game 
in Busch Stadium in St. Louis near his hometown, where he pitched a perfect 
third.[10] After completing his perfect game, Buehrle had an 11–3 pitching 
record with a 3.28 ERA. Buehrle struggled in the games following the perfect 
game and he did not achieve another win until September 7 against the Red 
Sox.[11] On September 30 in the second game of the doubleheader, Buehrle 
pitched his final game of the season at Cleveland and he took the victory 
when the Sox shutout Cleveland 1–0.[12] After his perfecto till the end 
of his 2009 campaign, he posted a 2–7 record with a 4.78 ERA and he finished 
the season 13–10 with a 3.84 ERA.[13] He became the only active player 
to pitch for least two hundred innings for nine consecutive seasons after 
his debut in 2000.[12] Buehrle was named the 2010 Opening Day starter for 
a franchise-record eighth time.[14] In that game, he pitched seven innings 
and allowed no earned runs. Incredibly, in the fifth inning, he made a 
spectacular play facing Lou Marson of the Cleveland Indians. Marson hit 
a ball which bounced off Buehrhle’s foot, and he managed to pick it up 
with his glove and immediately throw it backwards between his legs without 
looking back and 1st baseman Paul Konerko caught the ball with his bare 
hand for the second out of the inning.[15] This is the #1 play of the season 
as no other plays beat Buehrle for the remaining six months of the 2010 
regular season.[16] In the show Baseball Tonight, the “Buehrle-Meter” is 
used to estimate the performance of the #1 Web Gems from 1–10 where 10 
is just as spectacular as Mark Buehrle's spectacular play on April 5, 2010. 
In the bottom of the second inning with two outs and a 3–1 pitch, Josh 
Fields hit a grand slam off of Scott Kazmir, giving the White Sox a 4–0 
lead.[1] In the bottom of the fifth inning, Scott Podsednik hit a lead-off 
double. The next batter, Alexei Ramírez, scored Podsednik from second with 
a double of his own, making it a 5–0 White Sox lead. Two of the Rays batters 
hit a foul ball very close to the fair territory down the left field line. 
Five of the Rays hitters had full (3–2) counts. In the top of the ninth 
inning, the Rays’ leadoff hitter, Gabe Kapler, hit a deep fly ball to left 
field-center field, where DeWayne Wise made a spectacular catch, taking 
a home run away from Kapler and saving the perfect game for Buehrle. Wise 
was a defensive replacement prior to the ninth inning.[1] The next batter, 
Michel Hernández, struck out swinging on a two-seam fastball with a full 
(3–2) count. The final batter, Jason Bartlett, hit a ground ball to shortstop 
Alexei Ramírez, who threw it to first baseman Josh Fields (Paul Konerko 
was the designated hitter for the day) to finish off the history-making 
moment at 3:10 PM CT. BATTING As Buehrle exited the field after the eighth 
inning, White Sox broadcaster Ken Harrelson exclaimed, “Call your sons! 
Call your daughters! Call your friends! Call your neighbors! Mark Buehrle 
has a perfect game going into the ninth!” Upon watching the replay of Wise's 
catch, Harrelson declared it was “under the circumstances, one of the greatest 
catches I have ever seen in 50 years in this game.” As the final ground 
ball of the game rolled towards White Sox shortstop Alexei Ramírez, Harrelson 
called out: "Alexei?!" As Ramirez completed the throw to first baseman 
Josh Fields, Harrelson shouted, “Yes! Yes! Yes! Yes! Yes! History!”[19] 
Though many did not like Harrelson’s verbosity and obvious hometown boosterism 
at the concluding moment of the game,[20] others felt the outburst of emotion 
captured exactly what they were feeling as the perfect game was sealed.[21] 
With the final out, the White Sox players ran onto the field, hugging each 
other. President Barack Obama, an ardent White Sox supporter, called Buehrle 
to congratulate him on his perfect game.[22] Then his wife Jamie and her 
baby daughter Brooklyn came to the U.S. Cellular Field from their home 
in suburban Chicago to congratulate Mark.[23] On July 29, 2009, Mark threw 
5 2⁄3 perfect innings. By retiring former teammate Joe Crede, Buehrle set 
the new record for consecutive batters retired, beating Jim Barr (who had 
retired 41 consecutive batters over the course of two complete-game wins 
in 1971, from the third inning of one to the seventh inning of the next) 
and teammate Bobby Jenks (who had tied Barr’s mark over fourteen relief 
appearances in 2007). Buehrle would then go on to retire the next three 
batters, before walking Minnesota Twin Alexi Casilla with two outs in the 
sixth inning, thus foiling Buehrle’s chance of becoming the first pitcher 
to ever throw a second career perfect game – let alone consecutive perfect 
games. Denard Span followed Casilla with a single, thus foiling Buehrle’s 
chance of becoming the second pitcher to throw consecutive no-hitters (the 
first having been Johnny Vander Meer for the 1938 Reds); in fact, Buehrle 
allowed 5 runs in 6 1⁄3 innings and took the loss on July 29.[24] Combined 
with the last out of one appearance, his perfect game, and the 5 2/3 innings 
worth of perfection, Mark set the new record of 45 consecutive batters 
retired.[2] This mark was broken by Yusmeiro Petit with 46 over eight appearances 
in 2014.[25] On July 29, 2009 Illinois Governor Pat Quinn declared July 
30 "Mark Buehrle Day". On August 4 before the game against the Los Angeles 
Angels, the White Sox held a special ceremony and provided "perfect game" 
and "MLB Record-Setting" giveaways for fans attending the Sox-Angels series. 
This series against the Angels was called “The Buehrle Appreciation Series”.[26] 
The left-center field wall where Wise made his ninth-inning home run-robbing 
catch is marked with the text, “The Catch”. Italics denotes post-season perfect game 
