Marlon Ordell Anderson (born January 6, 1974) is a former Major League 
Baseball utility player. He was widely known for his clutch hits, and writers 
for publications including The New York Times and Newsday had referred 
to him as one of the best pinch-hitters in the game.[1][2] During the 2012 
season, he served as the hitting coach for the Potomac Nationals.[3] Anderson 
attended Prattville High School from 1988 to 1992. Anderson was a student 
and a letterman in football and baseball. He was coached by a baseball 
legend in Alabama known as Roger Lambert who also coached Marlon's two 
younger brother's Keto Anderson and Randy Anderson. Coach Lambert was inducted 
into the Alabama Sports Hall of Fame in 2011. Anderson attended the University 
of South Alabama. As a senior, he posted a .357 batting average with thirteen 
home runs, and was the Sun Belt Conference Player of the Year and a Baseball 
America first team All-American. Anderson was drafted by the Philadelphia 
Phillies in the second round of the 1995 amateur draft. In 1998, while 
playing for the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Red Barons, he was named the International 
League Rookie of the Year. On September 8 of the same year, he made his 
Major League debut as a pinch hitter, hitting a home run off Mel Rojas 
of the New York Mets. Anderson was the Phillies starting second baseman 
in 1999, 2001 and 2002. In 2003, because neither his offense nor his defense 
were considered exceptional, Plácido Polanco replaced him as the Phillies 
second baseman (also Chase Utley was then a top prospect of the Phillies' 
Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Red Barons); Anderson was not offered a 
contract by the Phillies and signed as a free agent with the Tampa Bay 
Devil Rays. In 2004, Anderson signed with the St. Louis Cardinals and filled 
a niche as a utility infielder. He also became known for his skill at pinch 
hitting, tying for the National League lead in pinch hits with 17 that 
year. In 2005, Anderson signed with the New York Mets, where he served 
as a pinch hitter. Anderson batted over .300 in pinch-hit situations. Anderson’s 
Met highlight occurred during an interleague game with the Los Angeles 
Angels of Anaheim on June 11, 2005, when he tied the score in the ninth 
inning with an inside-the-park home run off Angels closer Francisco Rodríguez. 
The ball caromed away from center fielder Steve Finley, who ran it down 
in right-center field as Anderson circled the bases. Anderson barely beat 
the play at the plate, colliding face-first into catcher José Molina's 
mask. On November 18, 2005, Anderson signed a two-year contract with the 
Washington Nationals. His contract ensured that the only two big leaguers 
ever to be named Marlon (the other is Marlon Byrd) would be teammates again 
on the 2006 Nationals. They were also teammates on the Phillies in September 
2002 when Byrd was called up. On August 31, 2006, Anderson was traded by 
the Nationals to the Los Angeles Dodgers after scoring the winning run 
in a 6-5 thriller against the Phillies in Washington. At the time, Washington 
had been struggling for much of the season and was not a playoff factor 
while the Dodgers appeared to be headed for the playoffs with the NL West 
division crown. Anderson was brought in hopes to assist in the Dodgers' 
playoff push. He was intended to be a pinch hitter, but Anderson won the 
starting job in left field when rookie Andre Ethier struggled towards the 
end of the season. On September 18, 2006, with the Dodgers playing the 
San Diego Padres for first place in the National League West with only 
two weeks left in the regular season, Anderson went five for five, including 
two home runs. His second home run that night was the last of a record 
tying four consecutive home runs in the bottom of the 9th inning, following 
home runs hit by Jeff Kent, J. D. Drew, and Russell Martin. Anderson's 
home run tied the score at 9-9 after the Dodgers trailed 9-5 to begin the 
inning. The Dodgers would eventually win the game on a walk-off home run 
by Nomar Garciaparra, and would tie San Diego for the NL West title. The 
tiebreaker however, went to San Diego as they had beaten the Dodgers 13 
of 18 games in 2006. The Dodgers would still make the playoffs after being 
awarded the wild card spot. The emergence of young Dodgers prospects Matt 
Kemp and James Loney contributed to Anderson's playing time diminishing 
during the first half of the 2007 season and he was designated for assignment 
by the Dodgers on June 29, 2007, ending his tenure with the club. He cleared 
waivers and became a free agent on July 11. He was promptly signed to a 
minor league contract by the Mets on July 12. One week later, on July 19, 
Anderson was called up to play for the Mets. Ironically, he started his 
first game back with the Mets against the Dodgers, the team that had just 
released him. He had a 2-RBI single in that game. On August 29, 2007, Anderson 
was part of a controversial call between the Mets and second-place Philadelphia 
Phillies at a game at Citizens Bank Park. With the Phillies leading 6-5 
with one out and the bases loaded in the ninth inning, Shawn Green hit 
a high-chop ground ball to shortstop. In trying to break up a double play, 
Anderson slid into Tadahito Iguchi, the Phillies second baseman. The second 
base umpire, C.B. Bucknor, called him out on interference, resulting in 
a double play. Replays of the incident showed that Green would have easily 
beaten out the play. The Mets would go on to lose the final game of the 
series, resulting in a critical four-game sweep by the Phils, who would 
eventually take the division on the final day of the season from the Mets. 
Anderson signed a two-year contract worth $2.2 million to return to the 
Mets in 2008.[4] On May 23, 2008, he seriously injured his hamstring in 
a game against the Colorado Rockies on a groundout. On April 11, 2009, 
the Mets designated Anderson for assignment. Later that week, he was released 
by the Mets. On June 14, 2009, Anderson signed with the Newark Bears of 
the independent Atlantic League.[5] Anderson served as a guest color analyst 
for the Philadelphia Phillies radio broadcasts during the 2014 season. 
