Marlins Park[14] is a baseball park located in Miami, Florida. It is the 
current home of the Miami Marlins, the city's Major League Baseball franchise.[15] 
It is located on 17 acres of the former Miami Orange Bowl site in Little 
Havana, about 2 miles (3 km) west of Downtown. Construction was completed 
in March 2012, in time for the 2012 season. The stadium is designed in 
a neomodern form of baseball architecture. Marlins Park was also LEED certified 
as the greenest MLB park in 2012.[16] The building is the sixth MLB stadium 
to have a retractable roof. With a seating capacity of 37,442,[2] it is 
the third-smallest stadium in Major League Baseball by official capacity, 
and the smallest by actual capacity. The stadium's public-funding plan 
led to a protracted lawsuit, largely contributed to the ouster of several 
local politicians, and triggered an SEC investigation. As revelations of 
the team's finances and their handling of payroll (both before and after 
construction) seemed to contradict some of the premises on which the tax-funded-stadium 
deal were based, the ballpark controversy intensified.[17][18] Despite 
questionable financing decisions by members of local government at the 
time, the financing of the project did not use General Fund taxes from 
local taxpayers and pulled from tourist funds specifically allocated for 
public-benefiting projects like sports facilities. The facility hosted 
a second-round pool of the 2013 World Baseball Classic and will host the 
2017 Major League Baseball All-Star Game. The park also hosts soccer matches, 
fundraising galas and other events during the winter. It also hosted the 
newly created Miami Beach Bowl. Prior to the construction of Marlins Park, 
the Marlins played home games at what was originally known as Joe Robbie 
Stadium in Miami Gardens, which was known by a number of different names 
during the Marlins' tenure there. Joe Robbie Stadium was built in 1987 
as home to the Miami Dolphins of the National Football League (NFL), and 
was designed as a multi-purpose stadium built primarily for football, but 
its design also accommodated baseball and soccer. Dolphins founder Joe 
Robbie believed it was a foregone conclusion that MLB would come to South 
Florida, so he wanted the stadium designed to make any necessary renovations 
for baseball as seamless as possible. The Marlins arrived in 1993 and during 
their time at the stadium, the Marlins drew more than 3 million people 
in their inaugural season and also won two World Series titles, in 1997 
and 2003. The stadium continues to be home to the Dolphins, and since 2008, 
the Miami Hurricanes from the University of Miami. Despite such preparation 
and pockets of success, the stadium was less than adequate as a baseball 
venue. Although its design was meant to accommodate baseball, it was primarily 
a football stadium. There were plenty of reminders of that purpose even 
in the stadium's baseball configuration. The stadium's color scheme matched 
that of the Dolphins. When the football season overlapped, cleat marks, 
as well as silhouettes of hashmarks and logos of the Dolphins or Hurricanes, 
were visible on the baseball diamond. The Marlins reduced capacity to 47,662 
(later to 35,521), mainly to create a more intimate atmosphere for baseball. 
However, capacity would have likely been reduced in any event, since many 
of the seats in the upper deck were too far from the field to be of any 
use during the regular season. Even with the reduced capacity, the sight 
lines were less than optimal for baseball. Most seats were pointed toward 
the 50-yard line—where center field was located in the baseball configuration. 
Lights were not angled for optimum baseball visibility. Players had to 
walk through football tunnels to get to dugouts that were designed with 
low ceiling joists. Some of these embarrassing issues were showcased on 
national television during the two World Series held there, when capacity 
was expanded to over 67,000. Most notably, some areas of left and center 
field were not part of the football playing field, and fans sitting in 
the left-field upper deck couldn't see any game action in those areas except 
on the replay boards.[19] These issues became even more pronounced over 
the years, as a wave of baseball-only parks left Sun Life Stadium as the 
only National League park that played host to both an MLB and an NFL team. 
Additionally, the stadium was built for games held during the fall/winter 
football season, not for games in the tropical summers of South Florida, 
which feature oppressive heat, humidity, frequent rain, and occasional 
tropical storms. For most of the stadium's run as a baseball venue, it 
was the hottest stadium in the majors, with temperatures for day games 
frequently reaching well above 95 °F (35 °C). The Marlins played most of 
their summer home games at night as a result. The lack of refuge from the 
uncomfortable climate and disruptive rain delays were considered a cause 
of chronically low attendance after that inaugural season. When the Marlins 
were not contending, they struggled to attract crowds larger than 5,000—a 
figure that looked even smaller than that due to the cavernous environment. 
Some Marlins players later admitted that they "couldn't wait to go on the 
road" because Sun Life Stadium had the "worst [playing] conditions" and 
least fan energy in the majors during years when the team was not a contender.[20][21][22] 
After original owner Wayne Huizenga claimed he lost more than $30 million 
on the team, he sold the Marlins in early 1999 to John W. Henry. Thereafter, 
the Marlins began a concerted effort to get their own baseball-only venue. 
Henry's vision included a retractable roof, believed by this time to be 
essential due to South Florida's climate and baseball's summertime schedule. 
Several ideas were explored on where a new ballpark should be built. The 
team's desire to leave their original home made for an awkward business 
relationship over leasing issues with Huizenga, who continued to own the 
then-named Pro Player Stadium. By January 2002, Henry's stadium proposals 
were effectively scrapped when MLB Commissioner Bud Selig engineered a 
three-franchise ownership swap—Henry left to own the Boston Red Sox, while 
Montreal Expos owner Jeffrey Loria took over the Marlins. Loria and president 
David Samson continued the search for a new, baseball-only retractable-roof 
ballpark. The Marlins' second World Series championship in 2003 created 
some local exuberance for a new ballpark. Then, in January 2004, the City 
of Miami proposed building a baseball-only stadium for the Marlins at the 
site of the Miami Orange Bowl that would adjoin the existing football stadium 
along its northern flank. Loria and Samson began a push for public assistance 
to fund construction. The city was initially reluctant to help the team 
pay for a stadium with tax money, although they supported the project. 
Miami-Dade County showed more willingness to commit public money early 
on. In May 2004, county commissioners agreed to fund a portion of a new 
stadium. The Miami Dolphins notified the Marlins in December 2004 that 
they would terminate its lease at Sun Life Stadium following the 2010 season 
if no stadium deal appeared imminent. A big step came in February 2005 
when Miami-Dade County officials unveiled a financial plan for a $420–$435 
million ballpark and parking garage for the Marlins east of the Miami Orange 
Bowl. The Marlins also attempted to lobby funding from the state of Florida. 
However, in May 2005, the Marlins' struggles with the Florida House Legislature 
continued, as its requests of $60 million towards a new ballpark were rejected. 
In November 2005, the Marlins' negotiations with the City of Miami officially 
broke down. With the South Florida community continuing to disappoint when 
it came to attendance and revenue, despite the team's second world championship 
two seasons prior, and with the lack of success by the team in 2004 and 
2005, the Marlins reacted by reducing their expenses, including player 
payroll. The Marlins traded veteran players like Mike Lowell, Josh Beckett, 
Luis Castillo, Juan Pierre, Guillermo Mota, Carlos Delgado, and Paul Lo 
Duca following the 2005 season and brought in fresh blood with players 
like Hanley Ramírez, Josh Johnson, Ricky Nolasco, Aníbal Sánchez, Emilio 
Bonifacio and Dan Uggla. "We're getting our payroll in line with our revenues," 
Loria said. "That's what we budgeted for. We're budgeting for anticipated 
revenue. I'm done losing money until there's a commitment from others. 
We made a major commitment, the fourth largest in baseball history. "It's 
as painful as it is disappointing, but it's necessary to make this market 
correction," Loria continued. "The time comes when you have to say enough 
is enough."[23] Huizenga swooped in to counter the city's Orange Bowl proposal 
by offering 15 acres near what was then Dolphins Stadium and about $50 
million for a baseball-only venue in exchange for revenue. But Marlins 
management was less than enthusiastic about entering another stadium arrangement 
with Huizenga next to the Dolphins. Selig granted Loria's request to explore 
cities outside of South Florida as potential homes. Team officials traveled 
to San Antonio, Texas in December 2005, to meet with officials who showed 
them potential stadium locations around the city and discussed plans to 
finance a ballpark. The Marlins also flirted with interest from Las Vegas, 
Nevada, and Portland, Oregon in 2006.[24] Although the Marlins did not 
accept any stadium offers from other cities, such talk of relocation heightened 
fan anxiety that Miami could lose its team just as Montreal recently lost 
the Expos—Loria's previously-owned team. Some public opinion trended towards 
supporting a new stadium. Florida Governor Charlie Crist and Hialeah Mayor 
Julio Robaina were in favor of public funding, saying the project would 
create jobs and be a "tremendous economic engine for a community." Neither 
swayed their respective legislatures to approve a deal.[25][26] After the 
Marlins explored other options, including at the former site of the Miami 
Arena, in August 2007, the Miami Hurricanes announced they were leaving 
the Orange Bowl, which made the newly-vacant site the most attractive option 
for local governments. In December 2007, the Miami-Dade County Commission 
voted in favor of two initial proposals that would assist in funding. But 
the County Commission and Miami City Commission continued to debate. On 
February 21, 2008, then MLB president and COO Bob DuPuy gave the commissioners 
this ultimatum during a hearing on public funding: "I just want you to 
know that if you decide not to make a decision tonight, that will be the 
death knell for baseball in Miami. We are out of time." City and County 
Commissioners appeared to take the threat seriously and within hours voted 
to approve funding for a new ballpark for the Marlins, in the form of a 
Baseball Stadium Agreement. The cost of stadium construction was expected 
to be approximately $525 million. The initial plan called for the Marlins 
to contribute $155 million all through two separate loans ($35 million 
of which borrowed interest-free from the county), Miami-Dade County to 
contribute $347 million (about $297 million of which would come from tourist 
tax dollars), and the City of Miami to contribute $23 million. The city 
would additionally shoulder the $10 million cost to demolish the old Orange 
Bowl site, and another $94 million to construct the new parking facilities. 
"This is the final piece of the puzzle," owner Jeffrey Loria said after 
the funding for the park was approved. He also thanked a long list of city 
and county officials for "saving baseball in Miami."[27] Demolition of 
the Miami Orange Bowl began on March 3, 2008, and was completed on May 
14, 2008. Marlins' management began working with architects on the new 
ballpark's design. (See "Design" section for details.) The construction 
deal was put on hold because of a lawsuit filed by auto dealer Norman Braman, 
the former owner of the Philadelphia Eagles. Braman fought to put the public-spending 
proposition before voters for approval. However, on November 21, 2008, 
Circuit Judge Jeri Beth Cohen signed an order that said that a voter referendum 
was not required for the 37,000-seat stadium's financing plan. That decision 
was the final remaining charge of Braman's original seven arguments, and 
Judge Cohen ruled in favor of the Marlins in all of them. The Marlins hoped 
to have had final approval on the stadium on February 13, 2009, but were 
blindsided by a last-minute bid by Commissioner Marc Sarnoff to secure 
a series of financial concessions from the two-time World Series champions. 
With stadium supporter Commissioner Michelle Spence-Jones on maternity 
leave and unavailable to vote, the project was left with a 2-2 tie on the 
stadium.[28] On March 19, 2009, Miami commissioners approved building the 
new stadium in a 3–2 vote. Those supporting the stadium deal were Joe Sanchez, 
Angel Gonzalez and Michelle Spence-Jones. Against the deal were Marc Sarnoff 
and Tomás Regalado. Also approved, by a 4–1 vote, was a bid waiver for 
a private contractor to work around the facility. A super majority was 
required for the bid waiver, and Sarnoff joined the majority. The final 
issue before the commission, dealing with an inter-local agreement, passed 
unanimously. With approval by the county, the team would change its name 
to the Miami Marlins.[29] On March 23, 2009, Miami-Dade County Commission 
engaged in more than 9 hours of debate over giving final approval to the 
multimillion-dollar stadium-finance deal. DuPuy again spoke of relocation 
if the county would not vote for approval. During the debate he asked the 
commissioners if they wanted Miami to become the "only major city in America 
without major league baseball." With the South Florida market finishing 
last in the majors in attendance and payroll in 2008, Samson speculated 
that the ballpark would improve both areas. He noted new ballparks typically 
lead to near-capacity crowds nightly the first year in the team's new home, 
and he estimated an annual attendance above 2 million for at least 7 seasons. 
"With the increased revenues we expect from the new ballpark, we would 
expect to be certainly a middle-of-the-pack, industry-average payroll", 
Samson said. "But only time will tell." Miami-Dade County commissioners 
answered the Florida Marlins' 15-year quest for a permanent home by agreeing 
to bankroll a big share of construction cost. The vote was 9–4. Voting 
in favor of the stadium plan were Commissioners Dennis Moss, Bruno Barreiro, 
Audrey Edmonson, Natacha Seijas, Javier Souto, Barbara Jordan, Dorrin Rolle, 
Jose "Pepe" Diaz, and Rebeca Sosa. Also, by a 10–3 vote, commissioners 
approved a bid waiver for the stadium's construction manager. The votes 
drew applause in the chamber.[30][31] But not all were convinced by MLB's 
arguments that tax money was essential to assist the Marlins' stadium project, 
especially with debt financing incurred by the county. "We keep hearing 
'If you build it they will come,'" said Commissioner Katy Sorenson, who 
cast a vote against the plan. "I don't believe it. And this 'field of dreams' 
is going to be a nightmare for our taxpayers."[32] On April 1, 2009, Miami's 
planning board voted 6–1 to approve the overall construction permit for 
the Marlins' new ballpark.[33] By June 30, 2009, the sale of construction 
bonds to pay for the new stadium had fallen short of expectations on Wall 
Street, prompting a scramble at County Hall and a pledge by the Marlins 
to cover the funding difference. Miami-Dade County Manager George Burgess 
asked commissioners to rush approval on increasing the interest rate on 
a portion of $409 million in bonds, but said he didn't know what the final 
costs would be to repay them. In the early hours of July 1, 2009, county 
commissioners cast the final vote on a set of last-minute changes that 
cleared the way for the sale of higher-interest bonds, granting Burgess's 
request. In the now finalized deal—supported by Miami Mayor Manny Diaz, 
Miami-Dade County Mayor Carlos Alvarez, and Burgess—the total building 
cost of the stadium complex rose by a few million to $634 million. More 
than 80% of that would be paid for using public money. Analysts of the 
bonds sale soon publicized that—with interest compounding over 40 years—the 
total cost to the county to repay them would rise to $2.4 billion. As the 
Miami media and bloggers circulated reports of the staggering fiscal numbers, 
construction began with a ground-breaking ceremony on July 18, 2009.[34][35] 
The 2009 election for the next mayor of Miami became a race between two 
candidates on opposing sides of the controversial stadium vote. As the 
term-limited City of Miami Mayor Manny Diaz's time in office neared its 
end, the Marlins endorsed City Commissioner Joe Sanchez's run for the office. 
Executives from the Marlins and Major League Baseball held fundraisers 
and donated money to the campaign of Sanchez, a leading supporter of the 
stadium plan. The Marlins sent their mascot, Billy the Marlin, to appear 
at some campaign events alongside Sanchez.[36] However, on November 3, 
2009, former City Commissioner Tomás Regalado, a leading opponent of the 
stadium plan, was elected as mayor over Sanchez with 72% of the vote. Regalado 
attributed his landside victory to his public opposition to the new stadium's 
financing, his verbal sparring with former mayor (and stadium-plan supporter) 
Diaz, and his populist message.[37][38] During the 2009–10 offseason, the 
other MLB owners reprimanded the Marlins for purloining too much of the 
approximately $65-$75 million in revenue sharing and Central Fund monies 
they receive annually. After the MLB Players Association threatened to 
file a formal grievance against the team's alleged violations of the league's 
revenue-sharing provisions, the Marlins formally agreed with the union 
to use all revenue-sharing proceeds on player development and salaries 
for the next three seasons. The news raised public suspicion that the Marlins' 
front office was being dishonest in their arguments to county and city 
commissioners that they were barely breaking even financially year after 
year. President David Samson, who had denied the team profited at Sun Life 
Stadium but would not offer any figures, said: "Very often the mistake 
that's made is they look at revenue sharing numbers and the team's payroll 
and take the difference and see profit without looking at our expenses."[39][40] 
In August 2010, the Marlins' financial documents were leaked to Deadspin 
and published on the Internet which showed that the team had a healthy 
net operating profit of $37.8 million in 2008 alone—an amount nearly double 
the league-low $21.8 million the Marlins spent on team payroll that same 
year.[41] The documents also showed that they were continuing to turn millions 
of dollars in profit in the middle of the Great Recession while receiving 
more revenue-sharing money than any team in baseball by 2009. Analysts 
extrapolated the data and some concluded that the franchise had profited 
by more than $91 million in the 3 years leading up to the county commissioners' 
passing the stadium plan in 2008. Samson immediately called the leak "a 
crime" while MLB scrambled to find the source of the leak. But many fans 
and taxpayers in the Miami area were angrier at the revelation contained 
within the documents. Still, Samson insisted that the Marlins owner, Jeffrey 
Loria, "didn't put a dime in his pocket", and claimed that the team was 
in "debt" despite evidence to the contrary. Samson later said the team 
showed a hefty profit in certain years when it was conserving money for 
its ballpark project.[42][43] A Miami Herald reporter was given access 
to Marlins financial documents that showed, "Loria's first four years owning 
the team saw an overall loss of almost $60 million — deficits covered with 
loans... Since Loria bought the Marlins in 2002, boosting the payroll has 
failed to bring the spike in ticket revenue needed to turn a profit. Only 
when he slashed player costs did the team record a cash surplus, according 
to the records... By the end of that championship season [2003], the Marlins 
posted an operating loss of $43 million — due in part to attendance that 
was the third-worst in the Major Leagues. Ticket revenue rose the following 
year as the Marlins charged more and cut back on discounts, but attendance 
inched up just one notch to fourth-worst in baseball. Only in 2006, after 
Loria slashed payroll to the lowest in baseball, did the team begin posting 
healthy operating profits — $110 million [combined in the four seasons 
from 2006] through 2009. The surplus dollars came mostly from Major League 
Baseball's revenue-sharing program, which pays out cash to all 30 teams 
but has special subsidies for franchises with smaller fan bases. The league 
paid the Marlins between $65 million and $75 million a year through 2009, 
according to the statements reviewed by The Herald." [44] Meanwhile, with 
the required 1.5% of the construction costs of the public facility, word 
spread about expensive commissions for art works inside the new stadium, 
including $2.5 million for a Red Grooms sculpture behind center field. 
"The Miami-Dade Art in Public Places program was established in 1973 with 
the passage of an ordinance allocating 1.5% of construction cost of new 
county buildings for the purchase or commission of artworks." [45] Some 
in the public directed their outrage at the government officials who supported 
the public financing of the stadium during a time of high unemployment, 
and without a referendum. Opponents of the stadium deal charged that officials 
had sold out generations of South Floridians to an owner who could have 
contributed much more to cover the cost for his own building.[39] Proponents 
of the stadium deal expressed gratitude that Major League Baseball would 
remain a cultural institution in the community for generations to come. 
On March 15, 2011, Miami-Dade County voters ousted Mayor Carlos Alvarez 
in a recall election, some suggest due to the bonds issue the County selected 
for the ballpark project and pushing for a higher property-tax rate. His 
manager George Burgess, who helped engineer the deal, left soon thereafter. 
County Commissioner Natacha Seijas was recalled alongside Alvarez for largely 
the same reasons. The recall effort was led by the same billionaire who 
lost his legal challenge to the park's financing plan back in 2008, Norman 
Braman. A vocal opponent of the stadium deal, former commissioner Carlos 
A. Giménez, succeeded Alvarez as county mayor after a special election 
was held on June 28, 2011.[6][46] The franchise held a major rebranding 
event on November 11, 2011. During the festivities, the "Florida Marlins" 
were officially renamed the "Miami Marlins" as required by the stadium 
contract with the city government. The team also unveiled its new uniforms 
and colors which were designed to match the colors of Marlins Park. During 
the 2011–12 offseason, Miami Mayor Regalado publicized details of contract 
clauses in which the city will incur heavy annual charges. The charges 
include as much as $2 million per year in taxes to the county for the parking 
facilities leased to the Marlins, and the city must also pay the Marlins 
stadium maintenance fee of $250,000 annually. "That [parking-facilities] 
tax will seriously hurt the City of Miami and the taxpayer will have to 
foot the bill," said Regalado. "I am also concerned because in that same 
contract the city has to remit $250,000 every year for the maintenance 
of the stadium we do not own or operate. This is a bad contract that has 
become a nightmare." Regalado indicated that city would legally challenge 
terms of the contract agreed to by the previous administration, but he 
would not attempt to derail the stadium project.[47][48] Hours before the 
opening game at Marlins Park on April 4, 2012, team executives held a ceremonial 
ribbon-cutting with Miami-Dade County and city of Miami officials. Neither 
Miami-Dade County Mayor Giménez nor City of Miami Mayor Regalado accepted 
invitations to attend the photo-op in a show of solidarity with public 
opposers of the finance plan. "It would have been hypocrisy on my part 
to celebrate," Regalado said. "I wish them the best, and I hope this will 
bring a championship to Miami, but I still believe it was a bad deal for 
the city."[46] Loria dismissed the public backlash as "naysayers... and 
people who just can't stop shooting their mouths off."[49] He said: There'll 
always be activists in a community who don't know what they're talking 
about it, who have their own agendas. There are people who do not understand 
that we didn't take one dime away from anybody's public services in this 
city. These dollars that were put into this building from the city were 
tourist dollars—generated by tourists to increase tourism. And it had to 
be put back—into what is called the "public-private partnership"—into something 
like a ballpark or an arena. But a major-league city like Miami needed 
this kind of facility and they have it now.[50] Breakdown:[6] a The city's 
contribution includes $10 million towards demolition of the old Orange 
Bowl stadium, and $94 million to build the parking facilities. b The Marlins 
may spend up to $89.5 million of their contribution on "soft costs"—or, 
non-construction costs. These include fees paid to designers, consultants, 
attorneys, and political lobbyists. The total cost to the county is $2.4 
billion, spread over 40 years, to repay $409 million in bonds that will 
primarily, though not exclusively, cover stadium construction. Roughly 
$100 million will refinance existing bond debt and another $9 million goes 
into a debt service reserve fund. The remaining $300 million is for stadium 
construction, financed in two ways. One portion, underwritten by Merrill 
Lynch totaling $220 million, has an interest rate of 6.4% and requires 
immediate repayment. In October 2010 the county must pay $9.6 million, 
though there are questions over whether tourist taxes will meet that. Annual 
payments run through 2049 and climb as high as $71 million per year. The 
second portion, underwritten by JP Morgan, is for $91 million, $80 million 
of that for construction. That carries an 8.17 rate, but repayment doesn't 
begin until 2025. Yet that grace period comes with a big price: $83 million 
a year for three years starting in 2038. Then, starting in 2041, six years 
of payments totaling $118 million annually. The resulting total amount 
to retire the entire debt: $2.4 billion.[51][52] Not listed in the breakdown 
are the annual charges that the city is required to pay during the lifetime 
of the contract. They are as much as $2 million per year for the parking-facilities 
taxes payable to the county, and $250,000 per year to pay the Marlins' 
stadium maintenance fees. Adding these future expenses to contributions 
already made brings the city's total stadium expenses to $210.7 million 
by 2049.[48] The Marlins received an interest free, $35 million loan from 
the county that it will pay back through yearly rent beginning at about 
$2.3 million and increasing 2% each year. Including this debt brings the 
team's total stadium expenses to $161.2 million through 2028. The county 
and city combined total expenses are $2.61 billion through 2049.[53] The 
stadium deal also gives the Marlins almost all revenue created at the ballpark, 
from ticket sales as well as food and drink concessions, to parking spaces 
selling above $10, to gate receipts from concerts and soccer matches when 
the ballclub is not playing. The Miami Herald reported on December 2, 2011 
that the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC) had issued subpoenas 
to the city of Miami and Miami-Dade County, requesting financial records, 
meeting minutes and communications with executives from the Marlins and 
Major League Baseball dating back to 2007. The executives named in the 
subpoena include baseball commissioner Bud Selig, ex-MLB president Robert 
DuPuy, Loria and Samson. The investigation may revolve around the Marlins' 
claims that the team needed public help because it could not afford to 
pay for a new ballpark.[54] Under examination are the nearly $500 million 
in bonds and the circumstances surrounding their sale. Another issue specifically 
mentioned by the SEC is the $2 million in property taxes that the city 
is required to pay the county for parking garages operated by the Marlins. 
Also under investigation are any campaign contributions from the Marlins 
organization and MLB to local and state elected officials. (Jeffrey Loria, 
Loria's wife, Robert DuPuy, and DuPuy's spouse are known to have donated 
to the failed mayoral campaign of city commissioner Joe Sanchez, among 
others.)[36][55] A former lawyer for the SEC said the watchdog agency likely 
wants to know whether the purchasers of stadium bonds were given full disclosure 
of the financial status of the borrowers involved, and also whether there 
may have been any "pay for play" involved on behalf of the parties. If 
the SEC finds wrongdoing in the investigation, it can choose to bring a 
civil suit against parties involved, issue fines or refer the case to the 
United States Department of Justice for possible criminal charges.[56] 
Marlins Park has the distinction of being the first MLB park designed in 
what stadium planners are calling the "contemporary" architectural style. 
The architecture is intended to shout a statement about the present-day 
culture of the city in which the stadium stands: Miami. It rejects the 
nostalgic idiom of the 20 consecutive new (plus 3 renovated) retro ballparks 
that opened in the 2 decades after Camden Yards was built. Owner Jeffrey 
Loria, who spearheaded the design, wanted his building to be "different 
and experimental." Loria said, "I thought it was time for baseball to be 
innovative."[57] In early 2008, Loria happened to be in London at the same 
time as some architects from Populous who were there on another project. 
The group met in a hotel lobby to begin discussing design ideas. Loria 
described the meeting: When it all started, the architects came to me and 
asked what I had envisioned. Was I looking to have a retro stadium? Did 
we have that in mind? I said, "No retro, no art-deco, no looking back. 
Miami is a spectacular city, looking ahead. We need to be looking forward. 
I'd like to see us build a great, 'contemporary' building."[58] We had 
to think about some kind of design for it and what it might look like... 
I really did not want it to be just another ballpark. I wasn't interested 
in a 1970s or '80s doughnut... I wanted it to be a statement of what Miami 
is all about—a contemporary city. Miami is an important American city and 
architecture makes your city great. The idea was to create something very 
contemporary.[59] Loria then sketched his idea of a round building on a 
napkin and told the architects to bring him back some real drawings. Exec 
architect Earl Santee, who was present at the meeting, said, "Mr. Loria 
told us to make a piece of art." [60] The architects returned to their 
Kansas City offices and began brainstorming in April 2008. "We were waiting 
for a client willing to break the [retro] mold", said Greg Sherlock, the 
project's lead designer at Populous.[61] Loria "sort of let us do our thing 
and explore something unique. We knew from the beginning that this was 
going to be something new and different." [62] As a result, classic elements 
such as redbrick, limestone, and muted forest-green seats or fences, would 
not be found anywhere in Marlins Park. Any visible steel trusses would 
be functionally required to be that way, unlike retro-style trusses which 
tend to be exposed and bare for aesthetics. According to Sherlock, the 
structure would convey "that a ballpark doesn't necessarily have to be 
bricks and steel to translate a message about its location. It can be interpreted 
in a fresh way."[61] The stadium would also not be symmetrical like the 
"cookie-cutter" stadiums of the pre-Camden, modern era. But eccentricities 
to the seating bowl and fences need not appear as contrived as those meticulously 
added into some of the retro parks (such as "Tal's Hill" in Minute Maid 
Park, or the "Mo's Zone" in Citi Field).[opinion] Populous began conducting 
feasibility studies for their "primary design objectives." The top objective 
was creating "a ballpark that is quintessentially Miami," which meant, 
according to a list of adjectives that the architects drew up: "palms, 
destination, diverse, recreation, and beach." A similar list was drawn 
up for the Little Havana neighborhood around the future park: "Cuba, pastels, 
canopies, organic, and everything is unique." They created a presentation 
for the Marlins tailored to Loria's background in the art business with 
concepts such as "the site is a gallery space with the ballpark representing 
gallery walls", and "pure art... pure color... pure baseball." Four different 
initial designs were presented, all of which were stark departures from 
previous ballpark architecture. Both the Marlins' and Populous' favorite 
choice was a design of an angular white-curves-and-glass facade—a metaphor 
for the "water merging with land" landscape of the Miami area—which was 
close to what eventually became the final design.[60] "For the first time, 
you can embrace art and architecture and baseball in one building form," 
Santee said. "It's not just the art in the building, but the building itself 
is a piece of art."[63] "If you're looking for a label, I'd say 'contemporary'," 
Sherlock said. As well: In this particular case, we didn't adopt anything 
stylistically. It's sculpture quality, and with sculpture, there are no 
rules. We wanted an experience that connects the fan experience to the 
city of Miami and its people and its climate and culture.[61] The ballpark 
is intended to embody Miami so much that its emblematic features would 
look out-of-place if they were put in other cities. "We used Miami as an 
excuse to do things that other cities couldn't get away with," team President 
David Samson said. "Everywhere you look, it's things that if they were 
anywhere else, people would say, 'You can't do that.' In Miami, people 
say, 'Oh, that's Miami.' You have to take advantage where you are."[63] 
"Marlins Park is all about Miami", said Sherlock. The exterior is a sculptural 
monument consisting of gleaming white stucco, steel, aluminum, and glass. 
The inclining elliptical form avoids creating many rigid, right angles. 
Angled, cantilevered pedestrian ramps also form elegant geometric shapes. 
"It's consistent with the essence of the buildings that are down here -- 
white plaster and graceful forms, which are somewhat of an abstraction 
of the look and feel of Miami Deco", Sherlock continued.[62] Even the parking-garage 
walls are tiled in Miami-Deco pastels that connect with Little Havana. 
As visitors walk from the outside in, they step right on metaphors for 
Miami's topography, including concrete pavers that in general are either 
green or blue ("grass" or "sea"). They walk past landscaping that evokes 
the "beach"—there's even sand—in places. There's cobalt-blue glass at eye 
level ("ocean"), the stucco and concrete ("land" or "buildings"), and the 
paler blue-gray glass at the upper levels ("sky"). The seats are also cobalt-blue, 
facing the naturally green, Bermuda grass field.[57] When Marlins fans 
first realized that the original colors of the team would not appear on 
the seats in the new stadium—and ultimately not on the new uniforms either—some 
angrily started a petition known as "Project Teal." But Samson said it 
was necessary to ignore fans' complaints: "I think any time you do something 
new and different, the knee-jerk reaction from bloggers or people who post 
comments is negative. But we have blinders on. This ballpark would have 
never been built if we had listened to the negativity."[58] Loria, a notable 
art dealer, took the four bright primary colors off the palette of the 
late Catalan surrealist, Joan Miró, to conveniently label different zones 
around the park—green (outfield), red (third-base line), yellow (first-base 
line) and blue (behind home plate). "If you look carefully, in those sections, 
they dissolve into the next color, and the colors mix," Loria said.[58] 
Wide open plazas at the east and colorful west ends of the building, as 
well as a 360° concourse inside called the Promenade encourages fans to 
walk around—and to intermingle at stops such as the bars or the bobblehead 
museum. Dazzling colors are found throughout the interior, including fluorescent 
lime-green fences, and in modernist & contemporary works of art—including 
the much-debated animatronic home-run sculpture—that relate to baseball 
and Miami. "My idea was to have people use their eyes and encourage them 
to use their eyes," said Loria. "We wanted a ballpark filled with great 
baseball, great entertainment, and occasionally, some images to be seen 
and enjoyed. It's not about an art gallery. But it's about images relating 
to the game. There are a few of them in the park."[58] A nightclub featuring 
loud music and a swimming pool just beyond the left field fence brings 
a touch of South Beach into the park. Taste of Miami food court includes 
such local cuisine as Cuban sandwiches, pork sandwiches, and stone crabs. 
There's even an aquarium inside the walls of home plate backstop containing 
live, tropical fish.[61] Marlins Park pays tribute to the two football 
stadiums closely associated with the team's stadium history. It transfers 
over "The Bermuda Triangle" quirk of Sun Life Stadium's outfield fence 
as a nod to their team's early years. However, instead of straight lines, 
the new "triangle" is a wave-like shape that smoothly curves upwardly around 
the base of the large home-run sculpture, making the nook appear necessary 
to the design of the asymmetrical fence. The height of the tall wall varies 
from 10 feet (3.0 m) to 16 feet (4.9 m). There are also commemorations 
to the beloved old Orange Bowl both inside and outside of the park. A critical 
design point addresses the tropical climate of South Florida. Fans are 
provided with the comfort they longed for at Sun Life Stadium with the 
daunting 5.27-acre retractable roof, retractable-glass wall panels that 
offer a panoramic view of Downtown Miami, and a huge air-conditioning system. 
The stadium is also said to be designed to withstand strong hurricanes. 
"If our ballpark would speak, its first words would be, '¡Hola, Miami!,'" 
Loria said during a new-era ceremony.[64] Instead of framing new technology 
with nostalgic elements as in retro parks, Marlins Park emphasizes the 
future. Besides electronic mixed-media artwork, technology is also unmistakably 
used for commercial purposes. As a way to market to Latino fans, many digital 
menu boards on the concession stands continuously switch from English to 
Spanish and back. Also, there are no hand-operated advertisement signs; 
ads are all computerized. Santee explains: It's really just how technology 
is everywhere. You don't see any static ad panels in this building. It's 
all video-based, IPTV-based. It's all connected. The technology is the 
blood of the building. It flows through every vein, every piece of building. 
What it means is that [stadium operators] could run a third-inning (concession) 
special and it would pop up... You could have the whole building with one 
sponsor for one moment, if you wanted to. Or you could do zones. It gives 
them maximum flexibility for however they want to present their partners 
as well as themselves.[63] As part of its forward-thinking design, the 
venue is an efficient, environmentally-friendly green building in its use 
of materials, waste, and operation. The selection of building materials 
included sealants, paint, and adhesives with low VOC (volatile organic 
compounds) to maximize good indoor-air quality. A white rubber membrane 
lining the roof reflects rays to reduce "heat-island effect." The extensive 
glass facade allows in natural light during the day and reduces reliance 
on artificial light. The suites are built with replenishable bamboo paneling 
instead of hardwood. Most construction waste was hauled away to recycling 
centers during the building phase.[65] Palm trees and other native plant 
species around the building encourage biodiversity. Levy Restaurants, which 
runs some of the kitchens, gets most of its fresh-food supply directly 
from local farms that are within a 100-mile radius of the stadium. Approximately 
6 million gallons of water a year are saved with the use of 249 waterless 
urinals.[66] An early aim of the new ballpark was to become the first retractable-roof 
ballpark to be Silver Certified by Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design (LEED).[67] On May 25, 2012, Marlins Park surpassed that goal by 
officially becoming the first MLB stadium—and the first retractable-roof 
stadium in any sport—to achieve LEED Gold Certification, anointing the 
facility as the most sustainable ballpark in MLB.[16] The LEED-NC (New 
Construction) rating system credited the stadium with 40 points toward 
certification, the highest total of any LEED-certified park in the majors—the 
retro-contemporary ballparks of AT&T Park, Target Field and Nationals Park 
are the only others to achieve LEED certification.[68][69] Although they 
were publicly seeking silver, Loria had privately challenged engineers 
to shoot for the higher gold certification. The most difficult aspect of 
achieving gold, though—and one the design team had doubt it would be able 
to accomplish—was concerning the energy required to operate the retractable 
roof. Populous thought renewable energy would be a part of the sustainability 
equation but the park opened without solar panels. However, engineers optimized 
lighting, mechanical controls, and electrical aspects enough to achieve 
a 22.4% reduction in energy usage, which exceeded the 14% required for 
certification. The U.S. Green Building Council noted an innovation which 
earned the facility three credits: Throughout areas of the stadium, including 
the clubhouses, the floor is made of a synthetic pouring made from recycled 
Nike shoes. The Council presented Loria with a plaque to signify the entire 
gold-certification achievement. Rick Fedrizzi, President, CEO and Founding 
Chair of U.S. Green Building Council stated: A lot of people have often 
thought this [LEED Gold Certification] is an award. I'd like to think about 
this as 'the organization has earned its Ph. D,' because earning one of 
these is not an easy task. The team that's up here did some amazing things 
to bring this plaque to the building.[16] "It was our desire from the onset 
to not only build America's greatest new ballpark, but also its most environmentally 
friendly", said Loria. Since sod was first laid down in early February 
2012, the grass has had difficulty growing under the frequently-closed 
roof. Planners had selected a strain of Bermuda grass—named Celebration—for 
its reputation of doing well in the shade.[70] Even so, with the grass 
receiving only about 4 hours per day of sunlight, some of the sod kept 
turning brown. The worst-affected area is in deep right field where patches 
of dead sod have been replaced multiple times. Grow lights are pointed 
by groundskeepers on the area to nurse it to health on non-game days.[71] 
As of 2014, the Bermuda grass has been replaced with Platinum TE Paspalum.[4] 
Paspalum is better able to tolerate shaded areas. During the first months 
of games played at the new park, at least 4 or 5 leaks showed themselves 
in the retractable roof. Fans sitting in at least 4 seating sections still 
got wet under the drippy roof on rainy days. Leaks have progressively appeared 
under different spots as stadium workers kept plugging them by opening 
up the roof panels and patching the joints. Samson said it will take time 
to work out the kinks: We knew going in that other retractable-roof ballparks 
had to make adjustments for one or two years to get their field right. 
We hoped that we'd get it right the first time. So far it's not right. 
We're going to keep working and find a way to make it better.[72] In time 
for the start of the 2016 MLB season, the park underwent a $500,000 renovation, 
mainly to lower and move in the outfield walls. The changes were studied 
and enacted after Marlins players complained to president David Samson 
that their long balls were not resulting in as many doubles or home runs 
as in other parks.[73] Since 2012, the park has logged the second fewest 
home runs of all Major League ballparks, behind San Francisco's AT&T Park.[74] 
The renovation, engineered by the Populous architectural firm that designed 
the original park, eliminated the "Bermuda Triangle" in center field and 
reduced the length from home plate to the center field wall from 418 feet 
(127 m) to 407 feet (124 m).[74] The walls around the outfield were lowered 
from heights up to 13 feet (4.0 m) to as low as 6 feet (1.8 m), which will 
allow outfielders to make leaping grabs for long balls.[74] The dimensions 
down the left- and right-field lines and in the power alleys were not altered, 
retaining the park's reputation as a pitcher's park.[74] The Marlins' front 
office commissioned several works of art and other notable features around 
the stadium. The back of the home run structure at Marlins Park A side 
view of the home run structure at Marlins Park One of the columns at Marlins 
Park that supports the roof when the roof is opened Baseball in Motion 
by Dominic Pangborn The home run structure in center field goes off after 
a home run. Marlin Park hosted a trio of soft openings prior to Spring 
training. The first baseball game took place on March 5, 2012 with a high 
school baseball game between Christopher Columbus High School and Belen 
Jesuit Preparatory School. The Marlins played an exhibition game on March 
6 against the Miami Hurricanes (defeating the Canes 7-6) and on March 7 
against the FIU Golden Panthers (defeating the Panthers 5-1).[86] The Marlins 
then hosted two spring training exhibition games at the new ballpark against 
the New York Yankees on April 1 and 2, 2012.[87] Before a sellout crowd 
of 36,601, the Marlins played their first regular season game on April 
4, 2012, against the St. Louis Cardinals (losing to the Cards, 4-1). The 
inaugural game was nationally televised on ESPN. As part of the Opening 
Night fanfare, players were announced onto the field while escorted by 
scantily-clad Brazilian dancers in full headdress. Muhammad Ali threw out 
the ceremonial first pitch after he was carted out to the field alongside 
Jeffrey Loria.[88] In 2011, the Marlins attendance had ranked 28th in majors 
during their final year at Sun Life Stadium. With a brand new ballpark, 
hiring manager Ozzie Guillén, and the team's payroll expansion to over 
$100 million (a club record resulting from the signings of free agents 
José Reyes, Mark Buehrle and Heath Bell, as well as the trade acquisitions 
of Carlos Zambrano and later Carlos Lee), Marlins officials expected attendance 
to skyrocket. "With the team we are putting together, we expect there to 
be very few empty seats at this ballpark ever," David Samson told reporters. 
"We have always told ourselves build it small and sell it out, and that's 
what we're going to do." The Marlins went on to finish the ballpark's inaugural 
season 18th in MLB attendance, averaging 27,400 per home game. The increase 
was a significant improvement, but far short of expectations. In fact, 
Marlins Park had the smallest first-year attendance of the 11 ballparks 
that had opened between 2001 and 2012.[89] The disappointing figures are 
largely attributed to the team's poor play on the field, as they finished 
in last place (69-93) in the NL East Division. Other cited explanations 
as to why some fans stayed away include opposition to the stadium's Little 
Havana location, and resentment over the use of public money to build it.[90] 
As the team underperformed both on the scoreboard and at the box office 
in their new ballpark, the Marlins traded away the face of the franchise, 
Hanley Ramírez, and 4 other veterans with contracts (Aníbal Sánchez, Omar 
Infante, Randy Choate, and Edward Mujica) in exchange for lower-salaried 
prospects in midseason 2012. The moves caused more tension with fans and 
made headlines around baseball that the Marlins had begun the third fire 
sale in team history—except this time it followed the opening of a new 
stadium instead of a World Series championship.[91][92] But Marlins' President 
of Baseball Operations Larry Beinfest insisted that trades were not signaling 
a "fire sale" or a "white flag," despite the sudden drop in payroll. "We 
understand there's skepticism here," he said. "Yes, we have our history 
[of fire sales], but that's not what's going on here. This was about the 
current mix wasn't winning, so let's try something else." [93][94] Fan 
fears of a fire sale in progress appeared to be confirmed during the offseason 
following the park's opening season as the front office proceeded to turn 
over much of the roster (including all recent free-agent signings) while 
massively unloading payroll. Manager Guillén was fired, in part for comments 
he made before the season about his admiring Fidel Castro's ability to 
stay in power.[95] Heath Bell was dealt away a week earlier for a minor 
leaguer.[96] Then, in a bombshell 12-player trade announced during baseball 
owners meetings in November 2012, the Marlins sent Reyes, Buehrle, ace 
pitcher Josh Johnson, Emilio Bonifacio, John Buck, and cash considerations 
to the Toronto Blue Jays in exchange for Yunel Escobar, Jeff Mathis, and 
5 prospects. (Escobar was then re-traded for a prospect a month later.) 
Overall, the Marlins jettisoned more money in contract commitments via 
trades during the second half of 2012 ($225 million) then they had added 
in the free agency signings meant to usher in the new stadium era during 
the previous offseason ($191 million). Team payroll for the stadium's second 
opening day in 2013 projects to be one of the lowest payrolls in baseball 
once again.[97] After years of the pretense that a taxpayer-funded ballpark 
would finally solve the franchise's cycles of fire sales and low payrolls, 
the ownership's apparent return to the same policies merely months after 
construction completed sparked outrage from many Marlins fans. Irate fans 
and a few players vented anger—some tying stadium deal with the trades—on 
talk radio and social media, with most criticism directed at either Bud 
Selig, or Samson and Loria. "We finished in last place. Figure it out... 
We have to take a new course", a defiant Loria said to one reporter when 
asked about a fire sale. He dismissed another group of reporters, saying: 
"Not today boys. If you guys haven't figured it out yet, I'm not going 
to figure it out for you."[17][98][99][100] In retrospect, the team's brief 
honeymoon in their new home made this preseason quip from then manager 
Guillén sound foreboding: "It's like having a beautiful house and your 
marriage stinks. We have a beautiful house here, but if the people who 
live in it are not good, you're not going to have fun." [101] In a radio 
interview, Samson sought to put the smaller payroll in perspective with 
Marlins Park. "It's a great ballpark and now we need a great team to go 
with it and we thought we had it last year and the evidence was overwhelming 
that we didn't", he said. When asked if he and Loria had pulled off a "Ponzi 
scheme" by fleecing the public in the stadium deal and selling them back 
a "sham" a year later, Samson replied that the stadium is accomplishing 
its main purpose of keeping pro baseball in Miami. He drew comparisons 
to their former ownership of the (now relocated) Montreal Expos and Olympic 
Stadium: The difference in Montreal, there was no ballpark, there was no 
future. There is a long term future for baseball in Miami. That's what 
the ballpark has always been about was making sure an All Star game can 
come to Miami, making sure that generations will see baseball... [What 
matters] at the end of the day is not the payroll. Samson also said, "let's 
not forget how much money Jeffrey Loria himself put in—over $160 million 
of his money to get a ballpark built, which has been a very positive thing 
and will continue to be long after all of us are gone." The stadium contract 
only required the Marlins pay $125.2 million out of pocket during the early 
years of the project. Samson was including in his figure the interest-free, 
$35 million loan that the Marlins will repay to the county by the year 
2028.[102] The stadium hosted its first non-baseball event when Venezuela 
and Nigeria national teams played a match on November 14, 2012. The field 
was configured for soccer by covering the infield dirt, placing one goal 
near the Marlins' dugout on the third-base side and the other in front 
of the visitors' bullpen in right field. "Baseball is our core product 
-- it's perfect for baseball -- but as you can see tonight, soccer fits 
well", said Sean Flynn, senior vice president of marketing and events at 
Marlins Park.[103] During the stadium's negotiations, the plans included 
a 20,000 to 25,000-seater soccer-specific stadium to be built directly 
adjacent to the baseball stadium for a possible Major League Soccer expansion 
team. The expansion bid fell through in 2008, and MLS has since moved away 
from building next to Marlins Park, with a preference for a downtown location.[104] 
The stadium was scheduled to host the 22nd annual World Music Awards on 
December 22, 2012, but the event was cancelled due to logistical and multiple 
visa issues, as well as the stated intent to observe the national mourning 
of the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting.[105] In January 2013, Marlins 
Park began hosting the Miami Soccer Challenge as part of a 3-year partnership 
with Global Football Challenge.[106] Marlins Park hosted the Pool 2 during 
the second round of the 2013 World Baseball Classic on March 12–16, 2013.[107] 
On April 20, 2013, the park hosted "America's Night of Hope" with Joel 
and Victoria Osteen, an annual stadium event for Joel Osteen Ministries. 
The Miami Beach Bowl college football game played its inaugural game on 
December 22, 2014, between BYU Cougars and Memphis Tigers. The second Miami 
Beach Bowl was played on December 21, 2015 between Western Kentucky Hilltoppers 
and South Florida Bulls. The Marlins and their fans experienced the first 
rain delay at Marlins Park on April 6, 2015. Playing the Atlanta Braves 
in front of a sold-out Opening Day audience, a shower moved over the stadium 
with the roof open. The bottom of the 2nd inning was interrupted for 16 
minutes while the roof was closed; the field, however, was sufficiently 
wet to cause players to slip several times during the remainder of the 
game, a 2-1 Braves victory.[108] On June 20, 2016 Marlins Park saw the 
most-ever home runs hit in one game at the park, with 8 homers in a 5-3 
win by the Colorado Rockies over the Marlins. The 8 home runs also set 
a Major League record for solo home runs accounting for all the scoring 
in a game, surpassing the previous record of 5.[109][110] The super-columns 
are all nearly complete, with one crossbeam already in place, which will 
support the retractable roof, February 6, 2010 The site on July 2, 2010. 
The interior bowl is being completed on the west side, from a view at the 
outfield The site on November 6, 2010. The main center roof being constructed 
February 15, 2011 Adjacent parking structure on February 15, 2011 The site 
two weeks before completion of the final roof panel on March 13, 2011 The 
site on August 13, 2011 as seen from the Dolphin Expressway (SR 836) traveling 
