Marousi or Maroussi (Greek: Μαρούσι, also Αμαρούσιο Amarousio) is a suburban 
city in the northeastern part of the Athens agglomeration, Greece. Amarousio 
dates back to the era of the ancient Athenian Republic; its ancient name 
was Athmonon, and it represented one of the 10 Athenian sub-cities. The 
area held a main ancient temple, where Amarysia Artemis, the goddess of 
hunting, was adored, and the city's modern name derives from that of the 
goddess, Amarysia, which denotes the origin of the worship back in Amarynthos, 
Euboea. Marousi is situated 13 km (8 mi) northeast of Athens city centre. 
The municipality has an area of 12.938 km2.[2] The built-up area of Marousi 
is continuous with those of the neighbouring suburbs Pefki, Kifisia, Vrilissia 
and Halandri. Within Marousi lies the biggest forest in urban Athens, "Dasos 
Syngrou" (also "Alsos Syggrou"). The Athens Olympic Sports Complex, the 
largest sports complex in Greece, built for the 2004 Summer Olympics, is 
located in the southwestern part of the municipality. The main thoroughfare 
is Kifisias Avenue, which connects Marousi with central Athens and the 
northern beltway Motorway 6. Marousi has 4 stations on Athens Metro Line 
1, and two suburban (Proastiakos) commuter railway stations: Nerantziotissa 
station and Kifisias railway station. Marousi is also home to a number 
of prestigious public (Peiramatiko Lyceum Anavryton) and private educational 
institutions. Marousi's favourable infrastructure (Motorway 6, Athens Metro, 
Proastiakos suburban railroad) has led to strong economic growth. The main 
offices of the Greek subsidiaries of several multinational corporations, 
including Kodak, Bayer, Kimberly-Clark, Siemens, Microsoft and Nestlé, 
and the ANT1 television studios are located in Marousi. The managing office 
of Consolidated Contractors Company, a large Middle Eastern and International 
EPC Contractor, is located in Marousi. The Mall Athens, one of the largest 
shopping centres in southeastern Europe, is situated in the southwestern 
part of Marousi.[citation needed] Vivartia has its head office in Marousi.[3] 
Google Athens is headquartered in Marousi.[4] The new building of Greek 
Ministry of Education is located in Marousi, in the district Neratziotissa. 
In the same district is located the School of Pedagogical and Technological 
Education, a Greek university. The German School of Athens is also located 
in Marousi.[5] Maroussi is the place of Greek Olympic Sport Center. It 
is located in the southwest of the suburb, in an area that is named Kalogreza. 
Maroussi has also some sport gymnasium such as Dais Indoor Hall[6] and 
Maroussi Indoor Hall[7] that are used by local teams. Local teams are Maroussi 
B.C. with long-time presence in A1 Ethniki Basketball and A.C. Doukas with 
many titles in Handball and Futsal. The Olympic Stadium is used as home 
stadium by famous clubs of Greek football, currently by AEK and in the 
past by Panathinaikos and Olympiacos. Marousi is twinned with the following 
cities: Sunset view of the OAKA Complex. Nerantziotissa station at Marousi. 
Agia Filothei neighbourhood at Marousi Pindou Square Mount Hymettus from 
