Marquis Deon Grissom (/mɑːrˈkiːs/; born April 17, 1967) is a former American 
Major League Baseball center fielder. Grissom was born in Atlanta, Georgia. 
He attended Lakeshore High School in Atlanta Ga , and excelled in high 
school baseball. Grissom played baseball at Florida A&M University, and 
in 1988, the Montreal Expos selected him with the 76th overall pick in 
the June draft, as part of that draft's third round. He had been considered 
a prospect as both a pitcher and an outfielder, but the Expos decided to 
have him abandon the mound and work solely as a position player. He made 
his professional debut with the Jamestown Expos of the New York–Penn League 
that fall and advanced quickly through the system, first appearing in the 
majors on August 22, 1989. He showed steady improvement for the next few 
seasons, gradually developing into a star as Montreal's leadoff hitter 
and center fielder. He led the National League in stolen bases in 1991 
and 1992, was a member of the NL All-Star team in 1993 and 1994, and won 
four consecutive Gold Gloves, the first coming in 1993. Against the Los 
Angeles Dodgers on July 28, 1991, Grissom caught Chris Gwynn's fly ball 
for the final out of Dennis Martínez's perfect game.[1] The Expos enjoyed 
success on the field, but a strike ended the 1994 season before the playoffs, 
and after baseball resumed the team was forced to trade many of their stars 
for financial reasons. In April 1995, the Expos traded Grissom to the Atlanta 
Braves, in exchange for pitcher Esteban Yan and outfielders Roberto Kelly 
and Tony Tarasco. The Braves were just beginning a run of dominance in 
the NL East, and in his first season in Atlanta, they won the World Series 
with Marquis (the only player on that Atlanta Braves team who actually 
was born and raised in Atlanta) securing the final out by catching a fly 
ball by Carlos Baerga. They returned to the fall classic the next season, 
but failed to defend their title against the New York Yankees. Teams' financial 
motivations continued to affect the course of Grissom's career, and in 
March 1997, he was involved in a blockbuster trade with the Cleveland Indians. 
Hoping to save money that had been committed to long-term contracts, Atlanta 
traded Grissom and two-time All-Star David Justice to the Indians, receiving 
in return three-time All-Star Kenny Lofton and setup man Alan Embree. The 
deal worked out well for Cleveland, as the team went all the way to the 
World Series, ultimately losing to the Florida Marlins in seven games. 
Grissom performed exceptionally well in that postseason, winning the MVP 
award in the ALCS, and completing a 15-game World Series consecutive game 
hitting streak spanning 3 World Series, the 2nd longest of all time next 
to Hank Bauer of the New York Yankees. That offseason, however, the Indians 
re-signed Lofton as a free agent, subsequently trading Grissom and pitcher 
Jeff Juden to the Milwaukee Brewers for pitchers Ben McDonald, Ron Villone, 
and Mike Fetters. Grissom's production declined as he spent three seasons 
with the struggling club, and a trade in the spring of 2001 made him a 
Los Angeles Dodger, sending Devon White to the Brewers in return. Grissom 
continued to struggle that year, but he enjoyed a strong bounce-back season 
as a part-time player in 2002. On September 16, 2002, the Dodgers had a 
crucial game against the San Francisco Giants. In the top of the 9th inning, 
he robbed Rich Aurilia of a potential game-tying home run to protect the 
7–6 victory. The Giants went on to make the playoffs and the Dodgers did 
not. As a free agent he subsequently attracted the attention of the San 
Francisco Giants, who had just been defeated in the World Series. San Francisco 
signed Grissom, and he enjoyed two more productive seasons as their starting 
center fielder. The Giants were successful as well, winning the NL West 
in 2003 and missing the wild card by one game in 2004. Marquis won the 
2003 Willie Mac Award for his spirit and leadership. Grissom's production 
dipped again in 2005, and in a season of struggles by the Giants, he was 
released. On January 3, 2006, the Chicago Cubs signed him to a minor league 
contract and invited him to spring training as a non-roster player.[2] 
On March 28, 2006, Grissom retired after a 17-year career.[3] He currently 
resides in College Park, Georgia. He was hired to become the Washington 
Nationals first base coach for the 2009 season on October 24, 2008.[4] 
