Franchester Martin "Marty" Brennaman (born July 28, 1942) is an American 
sportscaster and has been the radio voice of Major League Baseball's Cincinnati 
Reds on the Cincinnati Reds Radio Network since 1974. Known for his opinionated, 
zealous, and sometimes contentious style,[1] Brennaman has been named Ohio 
Sportscaster of the Year and Virginia Sportscaster of the Year multiple 
times. In 1999, Brennaman was inducted into the Virginia Sports Hall of 
Fame. He was awarded the Ford C. Frick Award by the National Baseball Hall 
of Fame in 2000. A native of Portsmouth, Virginia, Brennaman attended Randolph-Macon 
College and the University of North Carolina, graduating from the latter 
institution with a communications degree in 1965. He began his broadcasting 
career at WGHP-TV in High Point, North Carolina, and followed with stints 
in Salisbury, North Carolina and Norfolk, Virginia. In 1971, Brennaman 
began his career as a baseball radio announcer for the Tidewater Tides 
(now Norfolk Tides), the then-New York Mets' affiliate in the International 
League (Class AAA). In 1973, Virginia Tech Athletic Director Frank O. Moseley 
hired the leading sports broadcaster in Virginia, Marty Brennaman, as the 
new voice of the Hokies. Brennaman was the first Tech broadcaster to call 
both football and basketball, but he left VT in 1974 to become the broadcaster 
for the Cincinnati Reds. Brennaman joined Joe Nuxhall on the Reds radio 
team in 1974. "Marty and Joe" became an institution in the city, appearing 
together in numerous radio and television commercials. Brennaman's trademark 
call of a Reds victory ("And this one belongs to the Reds!") was coined 
during his second game with the team. This same phrase was expected to 
be placed in lights, outside of the Reds new Great American Ball Park in 
2003, but interference from Hamilton County officials nixed the idea, citing 
that the ballpark "belongs to the taxpayers" and not the Reds.[2] Instead, 
only Nuxhall's traditional phrase of "...Rounding third and heading for 
home." was used. Highlights of Brennaman's broadcasting career include 
these calls: In 2000, Marty Brennaman won the Ford C. Frick Award, presented 
annually by the National Baseball Hall of Fame to a broadcaster "for major 
contributions to the game of baseball". The National Sportscasters and 
Sportswriters Association (NSSA) has named Brennaman as Ohio Sportscaster 
of the Year twelve times and Virginia Sportscaster of the Year four times, 
for his versatility in calling baseball, football, and basketball games 
on both the collegiate and professional levels. In addition to the Virginia 
Squires and the Norfolk Tides, he has called games for the Indiana Pacers, 
Virginia Tech, and William and Mary, as well as NCAA men's basketball tournament 
games. In 2005 Brennaman was inducted into both the NSSA Hall of Fame and 
the National Radio Hall of Fame. In 1988, Brennaman and Nuxhall appeared 
before National League President Bart Giamatti at the NL office, in New 
York City in regards to accusations that Brennaman incited the crowd to 
cause a delay of game after an altercation between Reds manager Pete Rose 
and umpire Dave Pallone. After Rose was ejected from the game and Brennaman 
criticized Pallone during the live radio broadcast, fans littered the field 
with debris, leading to a game delay. Brennaman had this to say regarding 
the incident. "I still maintain we were right", Brennaman said. "I'll never 
apologize for that. They accused us of inciting a riot. I don't think we 
did then and I don't think we did now."[3] On June 12, 2007, Brennaman 
made an on air apology during the Cincinnati Reds Radio Network broadcast 
for a comment he had recently made comparing an upcoming road trip to the 
Bataan Death March. The Reds, who at the time held the worst record in 
the National League, were set to face the Oakland Athletics, the Seattle 
Mariners and Philadelphia Phillies on the road trip.[4] On April 17, 2008, 
during the top of the eighth inning of a game between the Chicago Cubs 
and the Cincinnati Reds at Wrigley Field in Chicago, Brennaman made comments 
about Cubs fans and the Cubs team.[5] This occurred after then-Reds player 
Adam Dunn connected for a home run. Cubs fans customarily throw the opposing 
player's ball back onto the field. In this case, the field was littered 
with multiple balls thrown by fans onto the field, resulting in a game 
delay as the field crew recovered the debris. Brennaman's statements were 
aired over the Reds Radio Network broadcast of the game. "This is the kind 
of thing, quite honestly, right now, that makes you want to see the Chicago 
Cubs team lose. Among all baseball fans, and I can't attest to the Yankees 
or Red Sox, because we don't see them with any degree of regularity unless 
it's inter-league play, but far and away the most obnoxious fans in baseball, 
in this league, are those who follow this team right here. Throwing 15 
or 18 balls onto the field, there's absolutely no excuse for that, and 
that is so typical of Chicago Cubs fans. It's unbelievable." "You simply 
root against 'em. Y'know, I've said all winter they talked about this team 
winning the division, and my comment is they won't win it, because at the 
end of the day, they still are the Chicago Cubs, and they will figure out 
a way to screw this whole thing up."[6] On April 18, 2008, Brennaman appeared 
in an interview on Chicago sports radio station WMVP-AM 1000 in which he 
reinforced his position on Cubs fans, and compared Chicago Cubs fans to 
rival St. Louis Cardinals fans. "If they can't understand what happened 
Wednesday night was completely over the top, then I'm sorry", Brennaman 
said. "I said how tough it is to root for the Cubs. I think a lot of people 
feel the same way I do, but they won't articulate it. I'm not afraid to 
say what I think." "[Compared to Cubs fans] Cardinals fans are hands down 
the best in baseball. They respect the game. They don't go to the game 
to do stupid stuff." "The Cubs have some great baseball fans. But the ones 
who act like idiots (ruin) it for people like me."[7] On February 5, 2010, 
Brennaman was chastised for commenting that Marshall University's president 
must be "queer" for softball at the university's baseball banquet and fundraiser. 
Brennaman stated, "I probably could have made a better choice of words, 
but in no way does that reflect my opinion about gays at all. It's just 
a comment I made about the president of the university." [8] Brennaman 
has three children. His son Thom and daughter, Dawn, are children from 
his first marriage. He also has a daughter, Ashley, from his second marriage. 
He has five grandchildren. He is married to Amanda Ingram. Thom, also a 
broadcaster, had worked with the Reds, the Chicago Cubs, Arizona Diamondbacks, 
and was the number two baseball play-by-play man (behind Joe Buck) on Fox 
Sports' Major League Baseball broadcasts. On October 4, 2006, the Cincinnati 
Reds re-hired Thom to join his father in the radio booth as well as do 
play-by-play on television starting with the 2007 season.[1]. After years 
of making good-natured fun of his longtime broadcast partner, the late 
Joe Nuxhall, for playing golf, Brennaman is now an avid golfer himself 
and speaks of the sport often during his broadcasts. The Marty Brennaman 
