Marvin Eugene Throneberry (September 2, 1933 – June 23, 1994) was an American 
Major League Baseball player, best remembered as the starting first baseman 
for the 1962 New York Mets, a team which set the modern record for most 
losses in a season with 120. A native of Fisherville, Tennessee, Throneberry 
batted and threw left-handed. Signed as an amateur free agent by the New 
York Yankees in 1952, he made his major-league debut in September 1955. 
He was one of the most feared minor league sluggers of the 1950s. Playing 
in the thin air of Bears Stadium as a member of the Denver Bears, Throneberry 
led the American Association in home runs and runs batted in for three 
consecutive seasons: 1955-56-57. Throneberry made it back to the majors 
for good in 1958, and although he possessed good power — his swing drew 
comparisons to Mickey Mantle[citation needed] — he showed a tendency to 
strike out. As a result, he spent two seasons on the Yankees' bench before 
being included in a six-player trade for Kansas City Athletics power-hitting 
outfielder Roger Maris before the 1960 season.[1] After a little more than 
one full season on Kansas City's bench, filling in at first base and right 
field, Kansas City traded Throneberry to the Baltimore Orioles for outfielder 
Gene Stephens in June 1961. Less than a year later, Baltimore traded him 
to the Mets for a player to be named later (Hobie Landrith) and cash. With 
the Mets, Throneberry got his first chance as a regular, and he responded 
by hitting .244 with 16 home runs and 49 RBI. However, he committed 17 
errors at first base and his fielding percentage of .981 would not be equaled 
by a major-league regular first baseman until César Cedeño fielded .981 
in 1979 for the Astros. While he played for the 1962 Mets, many humorous 
stories surfaced about Throneberry. While it is likely that many of these 
stories are exaggerated or false, they helped to elevate Throneberry to 
almost legendary status amongst Mets fans. In one famous story, on June 
17, Throneberry hit a triple against the Cubs, but he was called out after 
Ernie Banks took a relay throw and stepped on second base. "Didn't touch 
the bag, you know, Dusty", Banks told umpire Dusty Boggess.[2] According 
to the legend, Throneberry was called out at second and manager Casey Stengel 
came out to argue the call, but he was told by the umpire "Don't bother 
arguing Casey, he missed first base, too." (In another version of the story, 
Stengel was told this by his first-base coach.) Stengel, after a pause, 
supposedly replied, "Well, I know he touched third base because he's standing 
on it!" The next batter, Charlie Neal, hit a home run, prompting Stengel 
to come out of the dugout following him and pointing at all four bases.[3] 
Throneberry's mistake proved costly, as the Cubs won the game 8–7. Throneberry, 
who facetiously came to be known as Marvelous Marv, maintained a sense 
of humor about his play, and he became a favorite with fans and the media. 
At one point he had a fan club which numbered around 5,000 members. It 
is reported that they wore shirts with the word "VRAM" (Marv backwards) 
and took up chanting "Cranberry, Strawberry, we love Throneberry."[4] Except 
for one rough year defensively in 1962, Throneberry was no worse than average 
with his career fielding percentage and range factor as a first baseman. 
He was actually used as a defensive replacement on occasion while with 
the Yankees. In 1963, he got off to a very slow start, and he was demoted 
to Triple A Buffalo to make room for another Met legend, Ed Kranepool. 
He was eventually released from the team and retired at age 29. "Marvelous 
Marv" later became one of the original spokesmen for Miller Lite beer in 
the mid 1970s, poking fun at himself in a series of TV commercials. Throneberry's 
most famous line: "If I do for Lite what I did for baseball, I'm afraid 
their sales will go down."[5] In another popular ad, after other celebrities 
are shown, Throneberry is shown at the end, saying: "I still don't know 
what I'm doing in this commercial." Columnist Jimmy Breslin quipped, "Having 
Marv Throneberry play for your team is like having Willie Sutton work for 
your bank."[citation needed] In a seven-season career, Throneberry was 
a .237 hitter with 53 home runs and 170 RBI in 480 games. Marv was the 
brother of fellow major leaguer Faye Throneberry, and the grandfather of 
filmmaker Craig Brewer (Black Snake Moan). Throneberry died of cancer in 
