Marvin Julian Miller (April 14, 1917 – November 27, 2012) was an American 
baseball executive who served as the Executive Director of the Major League 
Baseball Players Association (MLBPA) from 1966 to 1982. Under Miller's 
direction, the players' union was transformed into one of the strongest 
unions in the United States. In 1992, Red Barber said, "Marvin Miller, 
along with Babe Ruth and Jackie Robinson, is one of the two or three most 
important men in baseball history."[1] Miller was born in The Bronx on 
April 14, 1917, and grew up in Flatbush, Brooklyn, rooting for the Brooklyn 
Dodgers. His father, Alexander, was a salesman for a clothing company on 
the Lower East Side in Manhattan; and, as a youngster, Marvin walked a 
picket line in a union organizing drive. His mother, Gertrude Wald Miller, 
who taught elementary school, was a member of the New York City teachers 
union, now the United Federation of Teachers.[2] Miller graduated from 
New York University in 1938 with a degree in Economics. He resolved labor-management 
disputes for the National War Labor Board in World War II and later worked 
for the International Association of Machinists and the United Auto Workers. 
He joined the staff of the United Steelworkers in 1950, became its principal 
economic adviser and assistant to its president, and took part in negotiating 
contracts.[3] At the United Steelworkers union, Miller worked his way up 
to be its leading economist and negotiator. In the spring of 1966, Miller 
visited MLB spring training camps in an effort to be democratically elected 
Executive Director of the Major League Baseball Players Association (MLBPA). 
He won the election by a vote of 489-136.[4] Miller negotiated MLBPA's 
first collective bargaining agreement (CBA) with the team owners in 1968. 
That CBA, covering the 1968 and 1969 seasons, was a short document. It 
won the players a nearly 43 percent increase in the minimum salary from 
$7,000 to $10,000, as well as larger expense allowances. More importantly, 
the deal brought a formal structure to owner-player relations, including 
written procedures for the arbitration of player grievances before the 
commissioner.[5] The next CBA, a three-year deal signed in 1970, built 
on this gain. For the first time, owner-player disputes not involving the 
"integrity of baseball" could be arbitrated not before the commissioner, 
an employee of the owners, but before a three-member arbitration panel 
with a neutral chairman selected jointly by the players and owners.[6] 
Throughout the 1969 season, Curt Flood, a perennial standout player for 
the powerhouse St. Louis Cardinals, argued with Cardinals owner August 
Busch and General Manager Bing Devine over a $10,000 raise in his $90,000 
salary. Shortly after the 1969 season concluded, Devine sent Flood a terse, 
two sentence letter notifying him that he had been traded to the then National 
League East cellar dwelling Philadelphia Phillies. Flood took the trade 
as an insult and also viewed it as a punishment by Cardinals management 
for his increased salary demands. Philadelphia's Shibe Park was known to 
be the most dilapidated in the major leagues compared with Busch Stadium 
that opened in 1966. Worse still, Phillies fans had earned a reputation 
for being virulent racists as was evidenced by the epithets and garbage 
they hurled at black player Dick Allen. (So bad was Allen's treatment at 
the hands of Phillies fans, he took to wearing a batting helmet while playing 
in the field.)[7] Coincidentally, Allen was the player the "Phils" sent 
to St. Louis as its part of the bargain for Flood. "Marvin was a groundbreaker. 
Players of my era and the player of today should appreciate the benefits 
that resulted from Marvin's leadership. He had a great way of communicating 
and relating the issues to us. I was proud to be one of the players that 
sat alongside him." Flood wrote a letter to then Commissioner of Baseball 
Bowie Kuhn stating that he did not view himself as "property" and instructed 
Kuhn to notify all teams in Major League Baseball that he was willing to 
consider financial offers to play for any team during the 1970 season. 
Flood had chosen to ignore the age old reserve clause, which prevented 
him from negotiating with any MLB team until he had sat out a season. Flood 
did not take his challenge of the reserve clause lightly and did consult 
with Miller before suing MLB and Bowie Kuhn. "I told him," recalled Miller, 
"that given the courts' history of bias towards the owners and their monopoly, 
he didn't have a chance in hell of winning. More important than that, I 
(Miller) told him even if he won, he'd never get anything out of it—he'd 
never get a job in baseball again." Flood asked Miller if it would benefit 
other players. "I (Miller) told him yes, and those to come."[9] Flood pressed 
forward with his suit and, as Miller predicted, became what later generations 
would figuratively call "radioactive". The MLBPA officially issued a statement 
supporting his legal battle, but none of his fellow players nor any of 
his friends came to his defense as the case Flood v. Kuhn made its way 
to the Supreme Court in March 1972. Flood was represented by prominent 
labor lawyer Arthur Goldberg, a former Secretary of Labor, Permanent Representative 
to the United Nations, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United 
States, and General Counsel of the United Steelworkers while Marvin Miller 
was the union's chief negotiator.[10] Meanwhile, Miller took his union 
on a "lightning" strike on April Fools Day 1972. From April 1 through April 
13, the ballplayers simply stayed away from the ballparks while Miller 
negotiated with the owners. Baseball only resumed when the owners and players 
agreed on a $500,000 increase in pension fund payments. Owners agreed to 
add salary arbitration to the CBA. The total 86 exhibition and regular 
season games that were missed over the entire 13-day period were never 
played because the league refused to pay the players for the time they 
were on strike. Most teams lost anywhere from six to eight games off their 
162-game schedule.[11] The Supreme Court decided against Flood by a 5-3-1 
vote in June 1972. Flood sat out the 1970 season because no owner wanted 
to set a precedent by flagrantly disobeying the reserve clause. In 1971 
he was signed by and played just 13 lackluster games for the Washington 
Senators. After that, a disgusted Flood never played Major League Baseball 
again. Twenty years later, Miller wrote in his memoir that Flood told the 
players union, "I think the change in black consciousness in recent years 
has made me more sensitive to injustice in every area of my life." Miller 
also said that Flood was primarily challenging the reserve clause as a 
professional ballplayer.[12] Although he lost his personal legal battle, 
Flood had opened the gates for other MLB players to challenge the reserve 
clause. In 1974, Miller used arbitration to resolve a dispute when Oakland 
Athletics owner Charlie Finley failed to make an annuity payment as required 
by Cy Young Award winning pitcher Catfish Hunter's contract. The arbitrator 
ruled that Finley had not met the terms of the contract so Hunter was free 
to negotiate a new contract with any team – making Hunter a free agent. 
Hunter eventually went on to sign a five-year deal with the New York Yankees 
for $3.5 million and an additional $1 million signing bonus.[13] In 1974, 
Miller encouraged two other pitchers Andy Messersmith of the Los Angeles 
Dodgers and Dave McNally of the Baltimore Orioles to play out the succeeding 
year without signing a contract. After the year had elapsed, both players 
filed a grievance arbitration. The ensuing Seitz decision declared that 
both players had fulfilled their contractual obligations and had no further 
legal ties to their ballclubs. This effectively eradicated the reserve 
clause and ushered in free agency.[14] As an economist, Miller clearly 
understood that too many free agents could actually drive down player salaries. 
Miller agreed to limit free agency to players with more than six years 
of service, knowing that restricting the supply of labor would drive up 
salaries as owners bid for an annual, finite pool of free agents.[15] Miller 
led the ballplayer's union in two more actions against the Major League 
owners, the second during 1980 spring training, and the third during the 
heart of the 1981 regular season. The 1981 strike, which lasted 50 days, 
forced the total cancellation of 713 games, and is estimated to have cost 
both the owners and players $146 million. Under Marvin Miller's 16-year 
tenure as the Executive Director of the Major League Baseball Players Association, 
the owners engaged in two lockouts, one in 1973 spring training and the 
other in 1976 spring training, both the result of negotiations for collective 
bargaining agreements.[16] During Miller's tenure as the Executive Director 
of the MLBPA, the average player's annual salary rose from $19,000 in 1966 
to $326,000 in 1982.[17] Miller taught MLB players the basics of human 
capital as a commodity they were selling to club owners. Working with MLBPA 
general counsel, Richard M. Moss, Miller educated the players to trade-union 
thinking. Moss was one of Miller's most trusted advisors at the MLBPA. 
Richard M. Moss later went on to become a MLB agent. The 1968 collective 
bargaining agreement was the first of its kind in pro sports. In 1970, 
players gained the right to have grievances heard by an impartial arbitrator. 
In 1973, they achieved a limited right to have salary demands subjected 
to arbitration.[18] I’m proudest of the fact that I’ve been retired for 
almost 29 years at this point, and there are knowledgeable observers who 
say that this might still be the strongest union in the country. I think 
that’s a great legacy. MLB is the only professional sport in the U.S. not 
to have a salary cap. (Although a competitive balance tax has been implemented 
since 2002, whereby any teams that exceed a mutually agreed upon amount 
in total salaries are assessed the tax which is paid to MLB and put in 
an industry growth fund to keep the sport competitive.)[20] Former MLB 
Commissioner Fay Vincent said upon learning of Miller's death in 2012, 
"I think he's the most important baseball figure of the last 50 years. 
He changed not just the sport but the business of the sport permanently, 
and he truly emancipated the baseball player - and in the process all professional 
athletes. Prior to his time, they had few rights. At the moment, they control 
the games."[21] His nemesis throughout the 1970s, MLB Commissioner Bowie 
Kuhn was not so kind. "I began to realize we had before us an old-fashioned 
19th-century trade unionist who hated management generally and the management 
of baseball specifically.", Kuhn said of Miller in his memoir.[22] Marvin 
Miller was succeeded in 1985 by Donald Fehr, who had joined the Major League 
Baseball Players Association as general counsel in 1977. Miller, even after 
retiring, remained close with his successor as a consultant. Fehr stepped 
down in 2009 and was replaced by the union's general counsel, Michael Weiner. 
Miller fell short of selection to the Baseball Hall of Fame in both 2003 
and 2007, although he finished among the leading candidates in voting for 
executives with 63%.[23] (Election requires 75% of the vote.) The 2003 
and 2007 votes had been conducted among a committee of all living Hall 
of Famers, who are primarily players. After they failed to agree on any 
candidate, including Miller, the voting body was reduced to 12 members, 
ten of them non-playing. CNNMoney writer Chris Isidore described the switch's 
effect on Miller's candidacy: "Imagine a runner rounding third and heading 
for home, only to have a last minute rule change move the location of the 
plate. That's roughly what happened to Marvin Miller's chances of getting 
his long overdue recognition in baseball's Hall of Fame."[24] Miller was 
up for election again in 2007 under a revamped voting format,[25] but received 
only 3 of the necessary 9 votes. Referring to the 12-man voting board, 
Jim Bouton said, "How did these people vote, and why are their votes kept 
secret? And why aren't there more players on that committee? Hank Aaron, 
Jim Bunning, Bob Gibson, Ferguson Jenkins—they're all on the committee 
for reviewing the managers and umpires. Essentially, the decision for putting 
a union leader in the Hall of Fame was handed over to a bunch of executives 
and former executives. Marvin Miller kicked their butts and took power 
away from the baseball establishment—do you really think those people are 
going to vote him in? It's a joke... I blame the players. It's their Hall 
of Fame; it's their balls and bats that make the hall what it is. Where 
are the public outcries from Joe Morgan or Reggie Jackson, who was a player 
rep? Why don't these guys see that some of their own get on these committees? 
That's the least they owe Marvin Miller. Do they think they became millionaires 
because of the owners' generosity?"[1] The 2007 electorate that rejected 
Miller consisted of former players Monte Irvin and Harmon Killebrew; former 
Yankee player and American League president Bobby Brown; former Red Sox 
executive John Harrington; current executives Jerry Bell (Twins), Bill 
DeWitt (Cardinals), Bill Giles (Phillies), David Glass (Royals), and Andy 
MacPhail (Orioles); and media members Paul Hagen (Philadelphia Daily News), 
Rick Hummel (St. Louis Post-Dispatch), and Hal McCoy (Dayton Daily News).[citation 
needed] Baseball commissioner Bud Selig told the Associated Press in 2007, 
"The criteria for non-playing personnel is the impact they made on the 
sport. Therefore Marvin Miller should be in the Hall of Fame on that basis. 
Maybe there are not a lot of my predecessors who would agree with that, 
but if you're looking for people who make an impact on the sport, yes, 
you would have to say that."[26] In 2000, Hank Aaron endorsed Miller's 
selection, saying "Marvin Miller should be in the Hall of Fame if the players 
have to break down the doors to get him in." Tom Seaver said, "Marvin's 
exclusion from the Hall of Fame is a national disgrace." Joe Morgan said, 
"They should vote him in and then apologize for making him wait so long." 
Broadcaster Bob Costas observed, "There is no non-player more deserving 
of the Hall of Fame."[1] On April 14, 2010, Miller's 93rd birthday, a group 
of former major leaguers launched a website called "ThanksMarvin.com." 
The site includes appreciations from retired players, and advocates for 
Miller's induction to the Hall of Fame.[27] "[Enshrinement] would be nice, 
but when you’re my age, 89 going on 90, questions of mortality have a greater 
priority than a promised immortality." Asked to predict his chances before 
the 2007 results had been announced, Miller said, "Let me point out one 
thing. In the last vote, the number of management people among the voters 
was a certain percentage. On the new committee management is completely 
dominant. Aside from miracles, there's no reason to believe the vote will 
do anything but go down."[29] On another occasion, Miller laughed, "I've 
never prepared an acceptance speech."[citation needed] On July 11, 2008, 
the Boston Globe portrayed Miller as disdainful of the realignment of the 
Hall's Veterans Committee, and as uninterested in the chances of his own 
enshrinement. From the article, Miller was quoted: "I find myself unwilling 
to contemplate one more rigged Veterans Committee whose members are handpicked 
to reach a particular outcome while offering a pretense of a democratic 
vote. It is an insult to baseball fans, historians, sportswriters, and 
especially to those baseball players who sacrificed and brought the game 
into the 21st century. At the age of 91, I can do without farce." [30] 
Further changes were made to the Veterans Committee voting process in 2010, 
effective with the 2011 induction cycle. Miller was named as one of 12 
figures from what the Hall calls the "Expansion Era" (1973–present) to 
be considered. The composition of the new 16-man voting committee was very 
different from that in 2007, consisting of eight Hall of Famers (seven 
inducted as players and one as a manager), four media members, and only 
four executives.[31] Despite the changes, Miller again missed out on election, 
this time falling one vote short of induction.[32] Miller was on the Expansion 
Era ballot for the 2014 class,[33] but received fewer than 6 of 16 votes 
and was not selected for induction.[34] Under current rules, Miller will 
next be eligible for consideration to be inducted with the class of 2017, 
and every three years thereafter. In 1997, the MLB Players Association 
created the Marvin Miller Man of the Year Award as one of its annual "Players 
Choice Awards".[citation needed] On April 1, 2000, he was honored by the 
National Jewish Sports Hall of Fame and Museum.[35] On April 26, 2009, 
he was inducted into the National Jewish Sports Hall of Fame.[36] Miller 
was married to Theresa Morgenstern for 70 years, and the couple had two 
children, Peter and Susan. Theresa predeceased Marvin. Peter Miller, his 
son, represented the baseball players in Japan.[17] Miller was diagnosed 
with liver cancer in August 2012. He died on November 27, 2012, at the 
age of 95, in his home in Manhattan.[37] In a statement, Michael Weiner, 
the executive director of the MLBPA, said: "It is with profound sorrow 
that we announce the passing of Marvin Miller. All players – past, present 
and future – owe a debt of gratitude to Marvin, and his influence transcends 
baseball. Marvin, without question, is largely responsible for ushering 
in the modern era of sports, which has resulted in tremendous benefits 
