The Maryland Terrapins, commonly referred to as the Terps, consist of 20 
men's and women's athletic teams that represent the University of Maryland, 
College Park in National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division 
I competition. Maryland was a founding member of the Southern Conference 
in 1921, founding member of the Atlantic Coast Conference in 1952, and 
is now a member of the Big Ten Conference. The nickname was coined in 1932 
by Dr. Harry C. "Curley" Byrd, then the school's football coach and later 
the school's president. Previously, Maryland teams were known as the "Old 
Liners"—a reference to the state's nickname, "The Old Line State." However, 
the school newspaper, The Diamondback, wanted a better nickname. Byrd thought 
"Terrapins" was a good choice because of the diamondback terrapins endemic 
to the Chesapeake Bay region. Byrd's hometown of Crisfield was famous for 
the number of terrapins along its shores.[2] The school mascot is an anthropomorphic 
turtle named "Testudo." The official team colors are red, white, black, 
and gold, derived from the Maryland state flag. It is the only NCAA school 
to have four official school colors. On July 1, 2014, the Terrapins became 
members of the Big Ten Conference following 62 years of membership in the 
Atlantic Coast Conference.[3] The university currently sponsors varsity 
athletic teams in 20 men's and women's sports, which compete at the NCAA 
Division I level. The University of Maryland, College Park was established 
in 1856 as Maryland Agricultural College. Baseball and football were played 
on the campus as early as the Civil War era.[4] It was renamed Maryland 
State College in 1916, and in 1920, merged with the state's professional 
schools in Baltimore to become the University of Maryland. Between 1921 
and 1953, the university was a member of the Southern Conference. Longstanding 
tensions within the Southern Conference culminated in 1951, when it passed 
a ban on participation in bowl games midway through the football season. 
At the end of the regular season, both Maryland and Clemson were invited 
and accepted invitations to postseason bowl games. The Southern Conference 
sanctioned the two schools with a one-year probation in which they could 
not schedule any football games against conference opponents.[5] On May 
8, 1953, Maryland became a founding member of the Atlantic Coast Conference 
(ACC) when it and six other schools voted to split from the Southern Conference.[6][7] 
As a result of a committee's recommendation to cut athletics costs, funding 
for eight teams was eliminated on November 21, 2011, a move supported by 
University President Wallace Loh. However, the president also showed support 
for a "Save the Programs Campaign", which gave the teams a chance to raise 
eight years of total program costs by June 30, 2012. The affected teams 
were men's cross country, indoor track, and outdoor track, men's swimming 
and diving, men's tennis, women's acrobatics and tumbling, women's swimming 
and diving, and women's water polo. On July 1, 2012, the University officially 
cut seven of those teams. The men’s outdoor track team raised $888,000 
of a target amount of $940,000, which was deemed sufficient to avoid elimination.[8] 
On November 19, 2012, the University of Maryland's Board of Regents voted 
to withdraw from the ACC to join the Big Ten Conference effective July 
1, 2014.[9] The University of Maryland currently has 20 varsity teams: 
8 men's and 12 women's. Burton Shipley was Maryland's first and longest 
serving basketball coach, but his lengthy tenure from 1923 to 1947 was 
described as "remarkably quiet".[10] At that time, the sport was not widely 
popular in the mid-Atlantic region and football and boxing were much better 
drawing spectator sports on the Maryland campus. To capitalize on the popularity, 
basketball games at Ritchie Coliseum were held as doubleheaders with boxing 
matches for 26 years.[11] Bud Millikan became head coach in 1950 and soon 
led Maryland to consistent respectability within the Southern Conference.[12] 
Defensive point guard Gene Shue averaged 22 points per game and his scoring 
record stood for two decades.[13] In 1955, the small Ritchie Coliseum was 
replaced by Cole Field House centrally located on campus, and when Maryland 
became a member of the Atlantic Coast Conference, the fanbase rapidly expanded. 
.[14] Millikan's tenure culminated in 1958 when Maryland won its first 
Atlantic Coast Conference tournament championship and advanced to the Elite 
Eight in the NCAA Tournament. Gary Williams became head coach in 1989, 
bringing Maryland back to national prominence following difficult years, 
and then retired in 2011. By March 2010, Gary Williams was the 5th winningest 
active coach in the country and the 3rd winningest coach all-time in the 
ACC (behind only Dean Smith and Mike Krzyzewski). In 2002 Williams led 
the Terrapins to the programs first national championship defeating Indiana 
64-52. Williams retired in May 2011 and Mark Turgeon was hired from Texas 
A&M to be his successor. An unofficial football team composed of Maryland 
Agricultural College students played games against local high schools in 
1890 and 1891. The following year, the school lent its support, which marked 
the official establishment of the Maryland football program in 1892. The 
football team has continued to the present day with the exception of a 
brief hiatus in 1895. In 1894, former Maryland coach and player William 
W. Skinner spearheaded the formation of the Maryland Intercollegiate Football 
Association, which served to award the state football championship.[15] 
Maryland hired D. John Markey as its first paid football coach in 1902.[16] 
H. C. "Curley" Byrd, who eventually served as the university president 
from 1936 to 1953,[17] began his playing career on the team in 1905.[18] 
In 1911, Byrd was appointed as the head football coach, and he served in 
that position through 1934. During his tenure, Byrd was instrumental in 
growing support of the program, and in 1915 successfully requisitioned 
funding for the school's first stadium.[19] In his position as university 
president, he was also responsible for building the school's current football 
facility, Maryland Stadium. In 1945, Paul "Bear" Bryant began his long 
and distinguished career as a head football coach at the University of 
Maryland.[20] The following year, he was replaced by Jim Tatum, a pioneer 
of the split T. Maryland football achieved its greatest success under Tatum, 
who compiled a 73–15–4 record without a single losing season, and to date, 
he remains the winningest Maryland coach of the modern era.[21] NCAA recognized 
selectors awarded Maryland the national football championship in 1951 and 
1953.[22] During Tatum's tenure from 1946 to 1955, Maryland also secured 
one Southern Conference championship and two Atlantic Coast Conference 
championships.[21] In 1962, Darryl Hill transferred to Maryland from the 
United States Naval Academy, making the school the first team in the Atlantic 
Coast Conference with a black player.[23] Jerry Claiborne became head coach 
in 1972, and led Maryland to three consecutive ACC championships from 1974 
to 1976. The Terrapins finished the 1976 regular season with an undefeated 
11–0 record, but lost to Houston in the Cotton Bowl Classic, which ended 
national championship speculation.[24] Bobby Ross replaced Claiborne in 
1982, and he repeated the feat of three consecutive ACC championships from 
1983 to 1985. In 1984, Maryland quarterback Frank Reich led the Terrapins 
to the then greatest halftime comeback against the defending national champions, 
Miami.[25] After a long bowl game drought, Ralph Friedgen was hired as 
head coach in 2001, and in his first season, led Maryland to the ACC championship 
and its first Bowl Championship Series game appearance.[26] The football 
program has secured two NCAA-recognized national championships, nine ACC 
championships, two Southern Conference championships, eleven consensus 
All-America honors, and twenty-four bowl game appearances. Maryland possesses 
the third-most ACC championships with nine, which places them behind Clemson 
(13) and Florida State (12). Many former Terrapins players and coaches 
have gone on to careers in professional football including 15 first-round 
NFL Draft picks.[21] The Terrapins men's lacrosse team is one of the most 
tradition-rich in all of collegiate lacrosse, having advanced to ten NCAA 
Championship games since its inception in 1971, winning the tournament 
in both 1971 and 1973. The Terrapins' lacrosse tradition traces back even 
further with 7 Wingate Memorial Trophies between 1936 and 1970. The school 
has also won a record 25 ACC championships, most recently in 2011 when 
it won the ACC Tournament Title en route to an NCAA Runner-Up finish. Prior 
to joining the Big Ten in 2014, the Terrapins wrestling team won more ACC 
team championships than any other school in the conference, winning their 
24th ACC title in 2012. The 2012 ACC championship is the Terps' fourth 
in the past five years. Maryland has finished in the top 20 at the NCAA 
Championships each year since the 2010 season and produced multiple all 
Americans since 2009, a school record. There have been six head coaches 
in Maryland's history, currently led by two-time NCAA champion and two-time 
Olympian Kerry McCoy now in his fourth year as head coach. The XFINITY 
Center is the arena for the Terrapin Wrestling team.[27] Maryland has had 
over 200 ACC Champions, 2 NCAA Champions, and 18 NCAA all Americans. In 
2010 Hudson Taylor became Maryland's first three-time all American with 
his fourth-place finish at 197 pounds. Spencer Myers became Maryland's 
first freshman in 2011 when he earned all American status with his sixth-place 
finish at heavyweight. The first wrestling team started in 1940 competed 
in the Southern Conference, with Paul McNeil becoming the Terps' first 
champion that same year at 175 pounds. Kyle John celebrates his 157 pound 
2012 ACC title The Maryland wrestling team was dominant in the ACC throughout 
the 1950s and 1960s and returned to claim two more conference titles in 
the late 2000s.[28] However, in its first season in the Big Ten, Maryland 
failed to win a Big Ten dual meet. After 13 tries, Maryland finally won 
its first Big Ten dual meet January 10, 2016, against perennial conference 
cellar-dweller Michigan State. In November 2011, University President Wallace 
Loh announced that eight sports would be cut following the end of the 2011-12 
academic year due to mounting financial woes in the Maryland athletics 
department. The athletics deficit was expected to reach $4 million by 2012 
and $17 million by 2017 unless action was taken.[29] In July 2011, President 
Loh had assembled a commission to identify ways to lower athletic expenses. 
In November 2011, President Loh accepted the commission recommendation 
to cut eight teams. The programs included five men's programs (indoor track 
& field, outdoor track & field, cross country, swimming & diving, and tennis), 
two women's programs (swimming & diving, and water polo), and one coed 
program (competitive cheer — aerobatics and tumbling).[29] Following the 
commission's recommendation, Athletic Director Kevin Anderson allowed each 
team the opportunity to raise funds towards its continued survival. Only 
one program—men's outdoor track and field—reached its fundraising benchmark 
and played in the 2012-13 school year and beyond. On July 1, 2012, Kevin 
Anderson announced the dissolution of the remaining seven programs. All 
active student-athlete scholarships and coaching contracts were honored 
for discontinued teams. The Maryland Terrapins rugby team was founded in 
1968. Maryland's best season was 1985, when Maryland played in the national 
championship final, losing 31-6 to Cal.[30] Maryland plays in the Atlantic 
Coast Rugby League, a conference formed in 2011 along with other Atlantic 
Coast Conference schools. The Terps are led by head coach Jeff Soeken, 
who was a three-time All-American when he played rugby for Maryland.[31] 
Maryland were champions of the league's inaugural 2011 season, defeating 
North Carolina 39-32 in the title match.[32] Maryland repeated as Atlantic 
Coast champion again in 2012, defeating Clemson. Maryland placed 10th in 
the 2012 Collegiate Rugby Championship (CRC), notching wins against Penn 
State and Oklahoma.[33] The CRC is the highest profile college rugby tournament 
in the country, held at PPL Park in Philadelphia and broadcast live on 
NBC.[34] Maryland reached the semifinals of the 2012 ACI 7s tournament 
in Blacksburg.[35] Victory Song The Maryland Victory Song was written in 
1928 by Thornton W. Allen. It is played frequently during Terp Basketball 
and Football games. During Football games, it is played after every touchdown 
the Terps score, regardless of whether the team is winning or losing, celebrating 
the immediate victory of accomplishment. Ironically, the "Victory" song 
is played even after defeat. During the M-A-R-Y-L-A-N-D section of the 
victory song, Terrapins fans show their clenched fists, and alternate pumping 
them in the air, beginning with their right fist on the "M" and alternating 
between left and right with each letter of the MARYLAND. The motion resembles 
someone climbing a ladder.[36] Alma Mater & Fight Song Other official school 
songs include the school's Alma Mater and Fight Song. Each of these are 
played at every home football game during the pregame festivities.[37] 
"Hey, You Suck!" A popular saying among the students at Maryland is a simple 
"Hey, You Suck!" directed at opponents. Students have incorporated the 
phrase into Gary Glitter's popular sports anthem "Rock and Roll Part Two" 
(often referred to as the "Hey Song"). Sometime in the early 2000s, then-football 
coach Ralph Friedgen asked that the song not be played at football games. 
Friedgen had never liked hearing the song since his return to College Park 
in 2001, and added that it hurt his recruiting efforts.[38] In 2004, basketball 
coach Gary Williams followed Friedgen's lead and asked that the song not 
be played at basketball games either. While he personally liked the song, 
complaints from a large number of parents and grandparents had led him 
to conclude it was too controversial.[39] However, the students have continued 
to sing the song without the band's support. Before each basketball game 
and after every touchdown at football games, the crowd sings the song a 
capella. An alternative version, which grew out of the Duke-Maryland basketball 
rivalry, replaces the phrase "You Suck" with "Fuck Duke." Students would 
often use the alternate phrase during games against teams other than Duke 
and have continued the tradition in the Big Ten Conference, even though 
the school no longer plays Duke. Key Plays At football games, Terp fans 
also shake their keys to signify urgency ("Key" Plays).[36] Fist Pump At 
the beginning of each men's basketball game during his tenure, Maryland 
Coach Gary Williams would pump his fist to signify a good game.[36] Midnight 
Madness Midnight Madness was originally started by Maryland Head Coach 
Lefty Driesell in 1970. Midnight Madness is held at the earliest time the 
Men's Basketball Team can practice, which used to be midnight on the first 
day of practice. Students would attend the practice and over the years 
it has evolved into a circus-like atmosphere, including light shows, magic 
shows, the mascot trampoline challenge, skits, food, beverage, and other 
fanfare. Recently, Maryland and some other schools have moved the start 
of Midnight Madness to earlier in the day - generally around 7 o'clock 
- with permission of the NCAA, of course. This is to encourage more families 
and fans who aren't even students to attend the event. As a result of this 
change, Midnight Madness has been rebranded as "Maryland Madness".[36] 
Newspaper Shaking Maryland students attempt to read the newspaper as the 
opposing team is being introduced. They shake the paper as the visiting 
team is introduced.[36] The Crew The Crew is a group of men's soccer fans. 
They generally sit behind the goal the opposing team is defending (switching 
sides at halftime) and berate the opposing goalie, referring to him by 
formal (given) name. Members of the Crew often travel to away games to 
continue to support their Terps. The Crew also organize activities to join 
the soccer environment.[36] The "Turgeonites" The Turgeonites are a group 
of students who dress in a suit and tie with a gray streak through their 
hair emulating head men's basketball coach Mark Turgeon. They can be seen 
in the student section behind the Maryland bench during every home game. 
The University of Maryland has won 27 NCAA national team Championships.[40] 
