Motto(s): Fatti maschii, parole femine (Literal: Manly Deeds, Womanly Words, 
Accurate: Strong deeds, Gentle Words) Maryland (i/ˈmɛrᵻlənd/[8]) is a state 
located in the Mid-Atlantic region of the United States, bordering Virginia, 
West Virginia, and Washington, D.C. to its south and west; Pennsylvania 
to its north; and Delaware to its east. The state's largest city is Baltimore, 
and its capital is Annapolis. Among its occasional nicknames are Old Line 
State, the Free State, and the Chesapeake Bay State. The state is named 
after Henrietta Maria of France, the wife of Charles I of England.[9] One 
of the original Thirteen Colonies, Maryland is considered to be the birthplace 
of religious freedom in America,[10][11] when it was formed by George Calvert 
in the early 17th century as an intended refuge for persecuted Catholics 
from England.[10][11][12] George Calvert was the first Lord of Baltimore 
and the first English proprietor of the then-Maryland colonial grant.[10][11] 
Maryland was the seventh state to ratify the United States Constitution, 
and played a pivotal role in the founding of Washington, D.C., which was 
established on land donated by the state. Maryland is one of the smallest 
states in terms of area, as well as one of the most densely populated, 
with around six million residents. With its close proximity to the nation's 
capital, and a highly diversified economy spanning manufacturing, services, 
and biotechnology, Maryland has the highest median household income of 
any state.[13] Maryland has an area of 12,406.68 square miles (32,133.2 km2) 
and is comparable in overall area with Belgium (11,787 square miles (30,530 km2)).[14] 
It is the 42nd largest and 9th smallest state and is closest in size to 
the state of Hawaii (10,930.98 square miles (28,311.1 km2)), the next smallest 
state. The next largest state, its neighbor West Virginia, is almost twice 
the size of Maryland (24,229.76 square miles (62,754.8 km2)). Maryland 
possesses a variety of topography within its borders, contributing to its 
nickname America in Miniature.[15] It ranges from sandy dunes dotted with 
seagrass in the east, to low marshlands teeming with wildlife and large 
bald cypress near the Chesapeake Bay, to gently rolling hills of oak forests 
in the Piedmont Region, and pine groves in the mountains to the west. Maryland 
is bounded on its north by Pennsylvania, on its west by West Virginia, 
on its east by Delaware and the Atlantic Ocean, and on its south, across 
the Potomac River, by West Virginia and Virginia. The mid-portion of this 
border is interrupted by Washington, D.C., which sits on land that was 
originally part of Montgomery and Prince George's counties and including 
the town of Georgetown, Maryland. This land was ceded to the United States 
Federal Government in 1790 to form the District of Columbia. (The Commonwealth 
of Virginia gave land south of the Potomac, including the town of Alexandria, 
Virginia, however Virginia retroceded its portion in 1846). The Chesapeake 
Bay nearly bisects the state and the counties east of the bay are known 
collectively as the Eastern Shore. Most of the state's waterways are part 
of the Chesapeake Bay watershed, with the exceptions of a tiny portion 
of extreme western Garrett County (drained by the Youghiogheny River as 
part of the watershed of the Mississippi River), the eastern half of Worcester 
County (which drains into Maryland's Atlantic coastal bays), and a small 
portion of the state's northeast corner (which drains into the Delaware 
River watershed). So prominent is the Chesapeake in Maryland's geography 
and economic life that there has been periodic agitation to change the 
state's official nickname to the Bay State, a nickname that has been used 
by Massachusetts for decades. The highest point in Maryland, with an elevation 
of 3,360 feet (1,020 m), is Hoye Crest on Backbone Mountain, in the southwest 
corner of Garrett County, near the border with West Virginia, and near 
the headwaters of the North Branch of the Potomac River. Close to the small 
town of Hancock, in western Maryland, about two-thirds of the way across 
the state, there are 1.83 miles (2.95 km) between its borders. This geographical 
curiosity makes Maryland the narrowest state,[citation needed] bordered 
by the Mason–Dixon line to the north, and the northwards-arching Potomac 
River to the south. Portions of Maryland are included in various official 
and unofficial geographic regions. For example, the Delmarva Peninsula 
is composed of the Eastern Shore counties of Maryland, the entire state 
of Delaware, and the two counties that make up the Eastern Shore of Virginia, 
whereas the westernmost counties of Maryland are considered part of Appalachia. 
Much of the Baltimore–Washington corridor lies just south of the Piedmont 
in the Coastal Plain,[16] though it straddles the border between the two 
regions. While the lack of any glacial history accounts for the scarcity 
of Maryland's natural lakes, the oft-repeated claim[17] that Maryland is 
the only state with no natural lakes is not true. Laurel Oxbow Lake is 
a 55-acre natural lake in existence for over one hundred years two miles 
north of Maryland City[18][19][20] and adjacent to Russett. "Chews Lake" 
is a seven-acre natural lake two miles south-southeast of Upper Marlboro.[21] 
There are numerous man-made lakes, the largest of them being the Deep Creek 
Lake, a reservoir in Garrett County in westernmost Maryland. Earthquakes 
in Maryland are infrequent and small due to the state's distance from seismic/earthquake 
zones.[22][23] The M5.8 Virginia earthquake in 2011 was felt moderately 
throughout Maryland. Buildings in the state are not well-designed for earthquakes 
and can suffer damage easily.[citation needed] As is typical of states 
on the East Coast, Maryland's plant life is abundant and healthy. A good 
dose of annual precipitation helps to support many types of plants, including 
seagrass and various reeds at the smaller end of the spectrum to the gigantic 
Wye Oak, a huge example of white oak, the state tree, which can grow in 
excess of 70 feet (21 m) tall. Middle Atlantic coastal forests, typical 
of the southeastern Atlantic coastal plain, grow around Chesapeake Bay 
and on the Delmarva Peninsula. Moving west, a mixture of Northeastern coastal 
forests and Southeastern mixed forests cover the central part of the state. 
The Appalachian Mountains of western Maryland are home to Appalachian-Blue 
Ridge forests. These give way to Appalachian mixed mesophytic forests near 
the West Virginia border.[25] Many foreign species are cultivated in the 
state, some as ornamentals, others as novelty species. Included among these 
are the crape myrtle, Italian cypress, live oak in the warmer parts of 
the state,[26] and even hardy palm trees in the warmer central and eastern 
parts of the state.[27] USDA plant hardiness zones in the state range from 
Zones 5 and 6 in the extreme western part of the state to Zone 7 in the 
central part, and Zone 8 around the southern part of the coast, the bay 
area, and parts of metropolitan Baltimore.[28] Invasive plant species, 
such as kudzu, tree of heaven, multiflora rose, and Japanese stiltgrass, 
stifle growth of endemic plant life.[29] Maryland's state flower, the black-eyed 
susan, grows in abundance in wild flower groups throughout the state. The 
state insect, the Baltimore checkerspot butterfly, is not common as it 
is near the southern edge of its range.[30] 435 species of birds have been 
reported from Maryland.[31] The state harbors a great number of white tailed 
deer, especially in the woody and mountainous west of the state, and overpopulation 
can become a problem from year-to-year. Mammals can be found ranging from 
the mountains in the west to the central areas and include black bears,[32] 
bobcats,[33] foxes, coyotes,[34] raccoons, and otters.[32] There is a population 
of rare wild (feral) horses found on Assateague Island.[35] Every year 
during the last week of July, feral horses are captured and waded across 
a shallow bay for sale at Chincoteague, Virginia. This conservation technique 
ensures the tiny island is not overrun by the horses.[citation needed] 
The ponies and their sale were popularized by the children's book, Misty 
of Chincoteague. They are believed to be descended from horses who escaped 
from shipwrecks. The purebred Chesapeake Bay Retriever dog was bred specifically 
for water sports, hunting and search and rescue in the Chesapeake area.[36] 
In 1878 the Chesapeake Bay Retriever was the first individual retriever 
breed recognized by the American Kennel Club.[36] and was later adopted 
by the University of Maryland, Baltimore County as their mascot. Maryland's 
reptile and amphibian population includes the diamondback terrapin turtle, 
which was adopted as the mascot of University of Maryland, College Park. 
The state is part of the territory of the Baltimore oriole, which is the 
official state bird and mascot of the MLB team the Baltimore Orioles.[37] 
Maryland joined with neighboring states during the end of the 20th century 
to improve the health of the Chesapeake Bay. The bay's aquatic life and 
seafood industry have been threatened by development and by fertilizer 
and livestock waste entering the bay.[38][39] In 2007 Forbes.com rated 
Maryland as the fifth "Greenest" state in the country behind three of the 
Pacific States and Vermont. Maryland ranks 40th in total energy consumption 
nationwide, and it managed less toxic waste per capita than all but six 
states in 2005.[40] In April 2007 Maryland joined the Regional Greenhouse 
Gas Initiative (RGGI)—a regional initiative formed by all of the Northeastern 
states, Washington D.C., and three Canadian provinces to reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions. Maryland has a wide array of climates, due to local variances 
in elevation, proximity to water, and protection from colder weather due 
to downslope winds. The eastern half of Maryland—which includes the cities 
of Ocean City, Salisbury, Annapolis, and the southern and eastern suburbs 
of Washington, D.C. and Baltimore—lies on the Atlantic Coastal Plain, with 
flat topography and sandy or muddy soil. This region has a humid subtropical 
climate (Köppen Cfa), with hot, humid summers and a short, mild to cool 
winter; it falls under USDA Hardiness zone 8a.[28] The Piedmont region—which 
includes northern and western greater Baltimore, Westminster, Gaithersburg, 
Frederick, and Hagerstown—has average seasonal snowfall totals generally 
exceeding 20 inches (51 cm) and, as part of USDA Hardiness zones 7b and 
7a,[28] temperatures below 10 °F (−12 °C) are less rare. From the Cumberland 
Valley on westward, the climate begins to transition to a humid continental 
climate (Köppen Dfa). In western Maryland, the higher elevations of Allegany 
and Garrett counties—including the cities of Cumberland, Frostburg, and 
Oakland—display more characteristics of the humid continental zone, due 
in part to elevation. They fall under USDA Hardiness zones 6b and below.[28] 
Precipitation in the state is characteristic of the East Coast. Annual 
rainfall ranges from 35 to 45 inches (890 to 1,140 mm) with more in higher 
elevations. Nearly every part of Maryland receives 3.5–4.5 inches (89–114 mm) 
per month of rain. Average annual snowfall varies from 9 inches (23 cm) 
in the coastal areas to over 100 inches (250 cm) in the western mountains 
of the state.[41] Because of its location near the Atlantic Coast, Maryland 
is somewhat vulnerable to tropical cyclones, although the Delmarva Peninsula 
and the outer banks of North Carolina provide a large buffer, such that 
strikes from major hurricanes (category 3 or above) occur infrequently. 
More often, Maryland gets the remnants of a tropical system which has already 
come ashore and released most of its energy. Maryland averages around 30–40 
days of thunderstorms a year, and averages around six tornado strikes annually.[42] 
The Catholic George Calvert, 1st Lord Baltimore sought a charter from Charles 
I for the territory between Pennsylvania and Virginia.[53] After George 
Calvert died in April 1632, the charter was granted to his son, Cecil Calvert, 
2nd Baron Baltimore, on June 20, 1632. The new "Maryland Colony" was named 
in honor of Henrietta Maria of France, wife of Charles I of England.[54] 
Lord Baltimore's first settlers arrived in the new colony in March 1634. 
They made their first permanent settlement at St. Mary's City in what is 
now St. Mary's County. They purchased the site from the paramount chief 
of the region, who was eager to establish trade. St. Mary's became the 
first capital of Maryland, and remained so for 60 years until 1695. More 
settlers soon followed. Their tobacco crops were successful and quickly 
made the new colony profitable. However, given the incidence of malaria 
and typhoid, life expectancy in Maryland was about 10 years less than in 
New England.[55] Maryland was founded for the purpose of providing religious 
toleration of England's Roman Catholic minority.[56] In 1642 a number of 
Puritans left Virginia for Maryland and founded Providence (now called 
Annapolis).[57] A dispute with traders from Virginia over Kent Island led 
to armed conflict. In 1644 William Claiborne, a Puritan, seized Kent Island 
while his associate, the pro-Parliament Puritan Richard Ingle, took over 
St. Mary's.[58] Both used religion as a tool to gain popular support. The 
two years from 1644–1646 that Claiborne and his Puritan associates held 
sway were known as "The Plundering Time". They captured Jesuit priests, 
imprisoned them, then sent them back to England. In 1646 Leonard Calvert 
returned with troops, recaptured St. Mary's City, and restored order. The 
House of Delegates passed the "Act concerning Religion" in 1649 granting 
religious liberty to all Trinitarian Christians.[55] In 1650 the Puritans 
revolted against the proprietary government. "Protestants swept the Catholics 
out of the legislature ...and religious strife returned".[55] The Puritans 
set up a new government prohibiting both Catholicism and Anglicanism. The 
Puritan revolutionary government persecuted Maryland Catholics during its 
reign, known as the plundering time. Mobs burned down all the original 
Catholic churches of southern Maryland. The Puritan rule lasted until 1658 
when the Calvert family regained control and re-enacted the Toleration 
Act. After England's "Glorious Revolution" of 1688, Maryland outlawed Catholicism. 
This lasted until after the American Revolutionary War. Wealthy Catholic 
planters built chapels on their land to practice their religion in relative 
secrecy. The royal charter granted Maryland the land north of the Potomac 
River up to the 40th parallel. A problem arose when Charles II granted 
a charter for Pennsylvania. The grant defined Pennsylvania's southern border 
as identical to Maryland's northern border, the 40th parallel. But the 
grant indicated that Charles II and William Penn assumed the 40th parallel 
would pass close to New Castle, Delaware when it falls north of Philadelphia, 
the site of which Penn had already selected for his colony's capital city. 
Negotiations ensued after the problem was discovered in 1681. A compromise 
proposed by Charles II in 1682 was undermined by Penn's receiving the additional 
grant of what is now Delaware.[59] Penn successfully argued that the Maryland 
charter entitled Lord Baltimore only to unsettled lands, and Dutch settlement 
in Delaware predated his charter. The dispute remained unresolved for nearly 
a century, carried on by the descendants of William Penn and Lord Baltimore — 
the Calvert family, which controlled Maryland, and the Penn family, which 
controlled Pennsylvania.[59] The border dispute with Pennsylvania led to 
Cresap's War in the 1730s. Hostilities erupted in 1730 and escalated through 
the first half of the decade, culminating in the deployment of military 
forces by Maryland in 1736 and by Pennsylvania in 1737. The armed phase 
of the conflict ended in May 1738 with the intervention of King George 
II, who compelled the negotiation of a cease-fire. A provisional agreement 
had been established in 1732.[59] Negotiations continued until a final 
agreement was signed in 1760. The agreement defined the border between 
Maryland and Pennsylvania as the line of latitude now known as the Mason–Dixon 
line. Maryland's border with Delaware was based on a Transpeninsular Line 
and the Twelve-Mile Circle around New Castle.[59] Most of the English colonists 
arrived in Maryland as indentured servants, and had to serve a several 
years' term as laborers to pay for their passage.[60] In the early years, 
the line between indentured servants and African slaves or laborers was 
fluid, and white and black laborers commonly lived and worked together, 
and formed unions. Mixed-race children born to white mothers were considered 
free by the principle of partus sequitur ventrem, by which children took 
the social status of their mothers, a principle of slave law that was adopted 
throughout the colonies, following Virginia in 1662. During the colonial 
era, families of free people of color were formed most often by unions 
of white women and African men.[61] Many of the free black families migrated 
to Delaware, where land was cheaper.[61] As the flow of indentured laborers 
to the colony decreased with improving economic conditions in England, 
planters in Maryland imported thousands more slaves and racial caste lines 
hardened. The economy's growth and prosperity was based on slave labor, 
devoted first to the production of tobacco as the commodity crop. Maryland 
was one of the thirteen colonies that revolted against British rule in 
the American Revolution. On February 2, 1781, Maryland became the 13th 
state to approve the ratification of the Articles of Confederation which 
brought into being the United States as a united, sovereign and national 
state. It also became the seventh state admitted to the U.S. after ratifying 
the new Constitution. In December 1790 Maryland donated land selected by 
President George Washington to the federal government for the creation 
of the new national capital of Washington, D.C. The land was provided from 
Montgomery and Prince George's counties, as well as from Fairfax County 
and Alexandria in Virginia; however, the land donated by Virginia was later 
returned to that state by the District of Columbia retrocession. Influenced 
by a changing economy, revolutionary ideals, and preaching by ministers, 
numerous planters in Maryland freed their slaves in the 20 years after 
the Revolutionary War. Across the Upper South the free black population 
increased from less than 1% before the war to 14% by 1810.[62] During the 
War of 1812, the British military attempted to capture Baltimore, which 
was protected by Fort McHenry. During this bombardment the song "Star Spangled 
Banner" was written by Francis Scott Key; it was later adopted as the national 
anthem. The National Road (U.S. Hwy 40 today) was authorized in 1817 and 
ran from Baltimore to St. Louis – the first federal highway. The Baltimore 
and Ohio Railroad (B&O) was the first chartered railroad in the United 
States. It opened its first section of track for regular operation in 1830 
between Baltimore and Ellicott City,[63] and in 1852 it became the first 
rail line to reach the Ohio River from the eastern seaboard.[64] The state 
remained with the Union during the Civil War,[65] due in significant part 
to demographics and Federal intervention. By 1860, 49% of Maryland's African 
Americans were free blacks.[62] Governor Thomas Holliday Hicks suspended 
the state legislature, and to help ensure the election of a new pro-union 
governor and legislature, President Abraham Lincoln had a number of its 
pro-slavery politicians arrested, including the Mayor of Baltimore, George 
William Brown; suspended several civil liberties, including habeas corpus; 
and ordered artillery placed on Federal Hill overlooking Baltimore. Historians 
debate the constitutionality of these wartime actions, and the suspension 
of civil liberties was later deemed illegal by the U.S. Supreme Court.[citation 
needed] In April 1861 Federal units and state regiments were attacked as 
they marched through Baltimore, sparking the Baltimore riot of 1861, the 
first bloodshed in the Civil War.[66] Of the 115,000 men from Maryland 
who joined the military during the Civil War, 85,000, or 77%, joined the 
Union army, while the remainder joined the Confederate Army.[citation needed] 
The largest and most significant battle in the state was the Battle of 
Antietam on September 17, 1862, near Sharpsburg. Although a tactical draw, 
the battle was considered a strategic Union victory and a turning point 
of the war. A new state constitution in 1864 abolished slavery, and following 
passage of constitutional amendments that granted voting rights to freedmen, 
in 1867 the state extended suffrage to non-white males. The Democratic 
Party rapidly regained power in the state from Republicans. Democrats replaced 
the Constitution of 1864 with the Constitution of 1867. Following the end 
of Reconstruction in 1877, Democrats devised means of disfranchising blacks, 
initially by physical intimidation and voter fraud, later by constitutional 
amendments and laws. Blacks and immigrants, however, resisted Democratic 
Party disfranchisement efforts in the state. Maryland blacks were part 
of a biracial Republican coalition elected to state government in 1896–1904 
and comprised 20% of the electorate.[67] Compared to some other states, 
blacks were better established both before and after the civil war. Nearly 
half the population was free before the war, and some had accumulated property. 
Half the population lived in cities. Literacy was high among blacks and, 
as Democrats crafted means to exclude them, suffrage campaigns helped reach 
blacks and teach them how to resist.[67] Whites did impose racial segregation 
in public facilities and Jim Crow laws, which effectively lasted until 
passage of federal civil rights legislation in the mid-1960s. Baltimore 
grew significantly during the Industrial Revolution, due in large part 
to its seaport and good railroad connections, attracting European immigrant 
labor. Many manufacturing businesses were established in the Baltimore 
area after the Civil War. Baltimore businessmen, including Johns Hopkins, 
Enoch Pratt, George Peabody, and Henry Walters, founded notable city institutions 
that bear their names, including a university, library, music school and 
art museum. Cumberland was Maryland's second-largest city in the 19th century. 
Nearby supplies of natural resources along with railroads fostered its 
growth into a major manufacturing center.[68] The Progressive Era of the 
late 19th and early 20th centuries brought political reforms. In a series 
of laws passed between 1892 and 1908, reformers worked for standard state-issued 
ballots (rather than those distributed and marked by the parties); obtained 
closed voting booths to prevent party workers from "assisting" voters; 
initiated primary elections to keep party bosses from selecting candidates; 
and had candidates listed without party symbols, which discouraged the 
illiterate from participating. These measures worked against ill-educated 
whites and blacks. Blacks resisted such efforts, with suffrage groups conducting 
voter education. Blacks defeated three efforts to disfranchise them, making 
alliances with immigrants to resist various Democratic campaigns.[67] Disfranchising 
bills in 1905, 1907, and 1911 were rebuffed, in large part because of black 
opposition. Blacks comprised 20% of the electorate and immigrants comprised 
15%, and the legislature had difficulty devising requirements against blacks 
that did not also disadvantage immigrants.[67] The Progressive Era also 
brought reforms in working conditions for Maryland's labor force. In 1902 
the state regulated conditions in mines; outlawed child laborers under 
the age of 12; mandated compulsory school attendance; and enacted the nation's 
first workers' compensation law. The workers' compensation law was overturned 
in the courts, but was redrafted and finally enacted in 1910. The Great 
Baltimore Fire of 1904 burned over 30 hours, destroying 1,526 buildings 
and spanning 70 city blocks. More than 1,231 firefighters worked to bring 
the blaze under control. With the nation's entry into World War I in 1917, 
new military bases such as Camp Meade, the Aberdeen Proving Ground, and 
the Edgewood Arsenal were established. Existing facilities, including Fort 
McHenry, were greatly expanded. Maryland's urban and rural communities 
had different experiences during the Great Depression. The "Bonus Army" 
marched through the state in 1932 on its way to Washington, D.C. Maryland 
instituted its first ever income tax in 1937 to generate revenue for schools 
and welfare.[69] Baltimore was a major war production center during World 
War II. The biggest operations were Bethlehem Steel's Fairfield Yard, which 
built Liberty ships; and Glenn Martin, an aircraft manufacturer. Maryland 
experienced population growth following World War II, particularly in the 
Baltimore and Washington, D.C. suburbs. Agricultural tracts gave way to 
residential communities such as Columbia and Montgomery Village. Concurrently 
the Interstate Highway System was built throughout the state, most notably 
I-95 and the Capital Beltway, altering travel patterns. In 1952 the eastern 
and western halves of Maryland were linked for the first time by the Chesapeake 
Bay Bridge, which replaced a nearby ferry service.[70] Maryland's regions 
experienced economic changes following WWII. Heavy manufacturing declined 
in Baltimore. In Maryland's four westernmost counties, industrial, railroad, 
and coal mining jobs declined. On the lower Eastern Shore, family farms 
were bought up by major concerns and large-scale poultry farms and vegetable 
farming became prevalent. In Southern Maryland, tobacco farming nearly 
vanished due to suburban development and a state tobacco buy-out program. 
In an effort to reverse depopulation due to the loss of working-class industries, 
Baltimore initiated urban renewal projects in the 1960s with Charles Center 
and the Baltimore World Trade Center. Some resulted in the break-up of 
intact residential neighborhoods, producing social volatility, and some 
older residential areas around the harbor have had units renovated and 
have become popular with new populations. The United States Census Bureau 
estimates that the population of Maryland was 6,006,401 on July 1, 2015, 
a 4.03% increase since the 2010 United States Census.[4] In 2015 Maryland 
had an estimated population of 6,006,401, which is an increase of 29,994, 
from the prior year and an increase of 232,849, or 4.03% percent, since 
2010. This includes a natural increase since the last census of 189,158 
people (that is 464,251 births minus 275,093 deaths) and an increase due 
to net migration of 116,713 people into the state. Immigration from outside 
the United States resulted in a net increase of 129,730 people, and migration 
within the country produced a net loss of 13,017 people. The center of 
population of Maryland is located on the county line between Anne Arundel 
County and Howard County, in the unincorporated community of Jessup.[71] 
Maryland's history as a border state has led it to exhibit characteristics 
of both the Northern and Southern regions of the United States. Generally, 
rural Western Maryland between the West Virginian Panhandle and Pennsylvania 
has an Appalachian culture; the Southern and Eastern Shore regions of Maryland 
embody a Southern culture,[72] while densely populated Central Maryland—radiating 
outward from Baltimore and Washington, D.C.—has more in common with that 
of the Northeast.[73] The U.S. Census Bureau designates Maryland as one 
of the South Atlantic States, but it is commonly associated with the Mid-Atlantic 
States and/or Northeastern United States by other federal agencies, the 
media, and some residents.[74][75][76][77][78] Spanish is the second-most-spoken 
language in Maryland, after English.[79] Most of the population of Maryland 
lives in the central region of the state, in the Baltimore Metropolitan 
Area and Washington Metropolitan Area, both of which are part of the Baltimore-Washington 
Metropolitan Area. The majority of Maryland's population is concentrated 
in the cities and suburbs surrounding Washington, D.C., as well as in and 
around Maryland's most populous city, Baltimore. Historically, these and 
many other Maryland cities developed along the Fall Line, the line along 
which rivers, brooks, and streams are interrupted by rapids and/or waterfalls. 
Maryland's capital city, Annapolis, is one exception to this pattern, since 
it lies along the banks of the Severn River, close to where it empties 
into the Chesapeake Bay. The Eastern Shore is less populous and more rural, 
as are the counties of western Maryland. The two westernmost counties of 
Maryland, Allegany and Garrett, are mountainous and sparsely populated, 
resembling West Virginia and Appalachia more than they do the rest of Maryland. 
Both eastern and western Maryland are, however, dotted with cities of regional 
importance, such as Ocean City, Princess Anne, and Salisbury on the Eastern 
Shore and Cumberland, Frostburg, and Hancock in Western Maryland. Southern 
Maryland is still somewhat rural, but suburbanization from Washington, 
D.C. has encroached significantly since the 1960s; important local population 
centers include Lexington Park, Prince Frederick, and Waldorf.[80][81] 
In 1970 the Census Bureau reported Maryland's population as 17.8 percent 
African-American and 80.4 percent non-Hispanic White.[86] As of 2011, 58.0 
percent of Maryland's population younger than age 1 were non-white.[87] 
African Americans form a sizable portion of the state's population – nearly 
30 percent in 2010.[88] Most are descendants of people transported to the 
area as slaves from West Africa, and many are of mixed race, including 
European and Native American ancestry. New residents of African descent 
include 20th-century and later immigrants from Nigeria, particularly of 
the Igbo and Yoruba tribes.[89] Concentrations of African Americans live 
in Baltimore City, Prince George's County, a suburb of Washington, DC, 
where many work; Charles County, Randallstown, and the southern Eastern 
Shore. The top reported ancestries by Maryland residents are: German (15%), 
Irish (11%), English (8%), American (7%), Italian (6%), and Polish (3%).[90] 
Irish American populations can be found throughout the Baltimore area,[91] 
and the Northern and Eastern suburbs of Washington D.C. in Maryland (descents 
of those who moved out to the suburbs[92] of Washington's once predominantly 
Irish neighborhoods[93][94]), as well as Western Maryland, where Irish 
immigrant laborers helped to build the C & O Railroad.[91] Smaller but 
much older Irish populations can be found in Southern Maryland, with some 
roots dating as far back as the early Maryland colony.[95] This population 
however, still remains culturally very active and yearly festivals are 
held.[96] A large percentage of the population of the Eastern Shore and 
Southern Maryland are descendants of British American ancestry. The Eastern 
Shore was settled by Protestants, chiefly Methodist and the southern counties 
were initially settled by English Catholics. Western and northern Maryland 
have large German-American populations. More recent European immigrants 
of the late 19th and early 20th century settled first in Baltimore, attracted 
to its industrial jobs. Many of their ethnic Italian, Polish, Czech, and 
Greek descendants still live in the area. Large ethnic minorities include 
Eastern Europeans such as Croatians, Russians and Ukrainians. The shares 
of European immigrants born in Eastern Europe increased significantly between 
1990 and 2010. Following the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Yugoslavia, 
and Czechoslovakia, many immigrants from Eastern Europe came to the United 
States- 12 percent of which currently reside in Maryland.[97][98][99] Hispanic 
immigrants of the later 20th century have settled in Hyattsville/Langley 
Park, Wheaton, Bladensburg, Riverdale Park, Gaithersburg, and Highlandtown 
in East Baltimore. Salvadorans are the largest Hispanic group in Maryland. 
Other Hispanic groups with significant populations in the state include 
Mexicans and Puerto Ricans and Hondurans. Though the Salvadoran population 
is more concentrated in the area around Washington, DC, and the Puerto 
Rican population is more concentrated in the Baltimore area, all other 
major Hispanic groups in the state are evenly dispersed between these two 
areas. Maryland has one of the most diverse Hispanic populations in the 
country, with significant populations from various Caribbean and Central 
American nations.[100] Jews are numerous throughout Montgomery County and 
in Pikesville and Owings Mills northwest of Baltimore. Asian Americans 
are concentrated in the suburban counties surrounding Washington, D.C. 
and in Howard County, with Korean American and Taiwanese American communities 
in Rockville, Gaithersburg, and Germantown and a Filipino American community 
in Fort Washington. Numerous Indian Americans live across the state, especially 
in central Maryland. Amish/Mennonite communities are found in St. Mary's, 
Garrett, and Washington counties.[citation needed] Attracting educated 
Asians and Africans to the professional jobs in the region, Maryland has 
the fifth-largest proportions of racial minorities in the country.[101] 
In 2006 645,744 were counted as foreign born, which represents mainly people 
from Latin America and Asia. About 4.0 percent are undocumented (illegal) 
immigrants.[102] Maryland also has a large Korean American population.[103] 
In fact, 1.7 percent are Korean, while as a whole, almost 6.0 percent are 
Asian.[104] According to The Williams Institute's analysis of the 2010 
U.S. Census, 12,538 same-sex couples are living in Maryland, representing 
5.8 same-sex couples per 1,000 households.[105] The largest religious groups 
in Maryland as of 2010 were: the Catholic Church with 837,338 adherents 
in Maryland, followed by non-denominational Evangelical Protestants with 
298,921 members, and the United Methodist Church with 238,774. The Southern 
Baptist Convention has 150,345 members.[106] Judaism is the largest non-Christian 
religion in Maryland with 241,000 adherents, or 4 percent of the total 
population.[107] The Seventh-day Adventist Church's World Headquarters 
and Ahmadiyya Muslims national Headquarters is located in Silver Spring, 
just outside the District of Columbia. Maryland has been prominent in U.S. 
Catholic tradition, partially because it was intended by George Calvert 
as a haven for English Catholics. Baltimore was the seat of the first Catholic 
bishop in the U.S. (1789), and Emmitsburg was the home and burial place 
of the first American-born citizen to be canonized, St. Elizabeth Ann Seton. 
Georgetown University, the first Catholic University, was founded in 1789 
in what was then part of Maryland.[108] The Basilica of the National Shrine 
of the Assumption of the Virgin Mary in Baltimore was the first Roman Catholic 
cathedral built in the United States, and the Archbishop of Baltimore is, 
albeit without formal primacy, the United States' quasi-primate,[citation 
needed] and often a cardinal. Among the immigrants of the 19th and 20th 
century from eastern and southern Europe were many Catholics. The Bureau 
of Economic Analysis estimates that Maryland's gross state product in 2012 
was $317.7 billion.[109] However, Maryland has been using Genuine Progress 
Indicator, an indicator of well-being, to guide the state's development, 
rather than relying only on growth indicators like GDP.[110][111] According 
to the U.S. Census Bureau, Maryland households are currently the wealthiest 
in the country, with a 2013 median household income of $72,483[112] which 
puts it ahead of New Jersey and Connecticut, which are second and third 
respectively. Two of Maryland's counties, Howard and Montgomery, are the 
second and eleventh wealthiest counties in the nation respectively. Maryland 
ranked No. 1 with the most millionaires per capita in 2013, with a ratio 
of 7.7 percent.[113] Also, the state's poverty rate of 7.8 percent is the 
lowest in the country.[114][115][116] Per capita personal income in 2006 
was $43,500, fifth in the nation. As of May 2014, the state's unemployment 
rate was 5.5 percent.[117] Maryland's economy benefits from the state's 
close proximity to the federal government in Washington, D.C. with an emphasis 
on technical and administrative tasks for the defense/aerospace industry 
and bio-research laboratories, as well as staffing of satellite government 
headquarters in the suburban or exurban Baltimore/Washington area. Ft. 
Meade serves as the headquarters of the Defense Information Systems Agency, 
United States Cyber Command, and the National Security Agency/Central Security 
Service. In addition, a number of educational and medical research institutions 
are located in the state. In fact, the various components of The Johns 
Hopkins University and its medical research facilities are now the largest 
single employer in the Baltimore area. Altogether, white collar technical 
and administrative workers comprise 25 percent of Maryland's labor force,[citation 
needed] attributable in part to nearby Maryland being a part of the Washington 
Metro Area where the federal government office employment is relatively 
high. Manufacturing, while large in dollar value, is highly diversified 
with no sub-sector contributing over 20 percent of the total. Typical forms 
of manufacturing include electronics, computer equipment, and chemicals. 
The once mighty primary metals sub-sector, which at one time included what 
was then the largest steel factory in the world at Sparrows Point, still 
exists, but is pressed with foreign competition, bankruptcies, and mergers. 
During World War II the Glenn Martin Company (now part of Lockheed Martin) 
airplane factory employed some 40,000 people. Mining other than construction 
materials is virtually limited to coal, which is located in the mountainous 
western part of the state. The brownstone quarries in the east, which gave 
Baltimore and Washington much of their characteristic architecture in the 
mid-19th century, were once a predominant natural resource. Historically, 
there used to be small gold-mining operations in Maryland, some near Washington, 
but these no longer exist. One major service activity is transportation, 
centered on the Port of Baltimore and its related rail and trucking access. 
The port ranked 17th in the U.S. by tonnage in 2008.[118] Although the 
port handles a wide variety of products, the most typical imports are raw 
materials and bulk commodities, such as iron ore, petroleum, sugar, and 
fertilizers, often distributed to the relatively close manufacturing centers 
of the inland Midwest via good overland transportation. The port also receives 
several different brands of imported motor vehicles and is the number two 
auto port in the U.S.[119] Baltimore City is the eighth largest port in 
the nation, and was at the center of the February 2006 controversy over 
the Dubai Ports World deal because it was considered to be of such strategic 
importance. The state as a whole is heavily industrialized, with a booming 
economy and influential technology centers. Its computer industries are 
some of the most sophisticated in the United States, and the federal government 
has invested heavily in the area. Maryland is home to several large military 
bases and scores of high level government jobs. The Chesapeake and Delaware 
Canal is a 14 miles (23 km) canal on the Eastern Shore that connects the 
waters of the Delaware River with those of the Chesapeake Bay, and in particular 
with the Port of Baltimore, carrying 40 percent of the port's ship traffic.[120] 
Maryland has a large food-production sector. A large component of this 
is commercial fishing, centered in the Chesapeake Bay, but also including 
activity off the short Atlantic seacoast. The largest catches by species 
are the blue crab, oysters, striped bass, and menhaden. The Bay also has 
overwintering waterfowl in its wildlife refuges. The waterfowl support 
a tourism sector of sportsmen. Maryland has large areas of fertile agricultural 
land in its coastal and Piedmont zones, though this land use is being encroached 
upon by urbanization. Agriculture is oriented to dairy farming (especially 
in foothill and piedmont areas) for nearby large city milksheads plus specialty 
perishable horticulture crops, such as cucumbers, watermelons, sweet corn, 
tomatoes, muskmelons, squash, and peas (Source:USDA Crop Profiles). In 
addition, the southern counties of the western shoreline of Chesapeake 
Bay are warm enough to support a tobacco cash crop zone, which has existed 
since early Colonial times but declined greatly after a state government 
buyout in the 1990s. There is also a large automated chicken-farming sector 
in the state's southeastern part; Salisbury is home to Perdue Farms. Maryland's 
food-processing plants are the most significant type of manufacturing by 
value in the state. Maryland is a major center for life sciences research 
and development. With more than 400 biotechnology companies located there, 
Maryland is the fourth-largest nexus in this field in the United States.[121] 
Institutions and government agencies with an interest in research and development 
located in Maryland include the Johns Hopkins University, the Johns Hopkins 
Applied Physics Laboratory, more than one campus of the University System 
of Maryland, Goddard Space Flight Center, the United States Census Bureau, 
the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the National Institute of Standards 
and Technology (NIST), the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH), 
the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, the federal Food and 
Drug Administration (FDA), the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, the Celera 
Genomics company, the J. Craig Venter Institute (JCVI), and MedImmune – 
recently purchased by AstraZeneca. Maryland is home to defense contractor 
Emergent BioSolutions, which manufactures and provides an anthrax vaccine 
to U.S. government military personnel. As of April 2014, Emergent had sold 
over 66 million doses of BioThrax to the U.S. government.[122] Forbes recognized 
Emergent as the top performing company in the state of Maryland for the 
2015–2016 fiscal year.[123] Tourism is popular in Maryland, with tourists 
visiting the city attractions of Baltimore, the beach attractions of the 
Eastern Shore, and the nature attractions of western Maryland, as well 
as many passing through en route to Washington, DC. Baltimore attractions 
include the Harborplace and the Baltimore Aquarium, as well as the popular 
Camden Yards baseball stadium. Ocean City on the Atlantic Coast has been 
a popular beach destination in summer, particularly since the Chesapeake 
Bay Bridge was built in 1952 connecting the Eastern Shore to the more populated 
Maryland cities.[70] The Maryland Department of Transportation, headquartered 
in the Hanover area of unincorporated Anne Arundel County,[124] oversees 
most transportation in the state through its various administration-level 
agencies. The independent Maryland Transportation Authority, headquartered 
in Baltimore, maintains and operates the state's eight toll facilities. 
Maryland's Interstate highways include 110 miles (180 km) of Interstate 95 
(I-95), which enters the northeast portion of the state, travels through 
Baltimore, and becomes part of the eastern section of the Capital Beltway 
to the Woodrow Wilson Bridge. I-68 travels 81 miles (130 km), connecting 
the western portions of the state to I-70 at the small town of Hancock. 
I-70 enters from Pennsylvania north of Hancock and continues east for 93 
miles (150 km) to Baltimore, connecting Hagerstown and Frederick along 
the way. I-83 has 34 miles (55 km) in Maryland and connects Baltimore to 
southern central Pennsylvania (Harrisburg and York, Pennsylvania). Maryland 
also has an 11-mile (18 km) portion of I-81 that travels through the state 
near Hagerstown. I-97, fully contained within Anne Arundel County and the 
second shortest (17.6 miles (28.3 km)) one- or two-digit Interstate highway 
which connects the Baltimore area to the Annapolis area. Hawaii has one 
that is shorter.[clarification needed] There are also several auxiliary 
Interstate highways in Maryland. Among them are two beltways encircling 
the major cities of the region: I-695, the McKeldin (Baltimore) Beltway, 
which encircles Baltimore; and a portion of I-495, the Capital Beltway, 
which encircles Washington, D.C. I-270, which connects the Frederick area 
with Northern Virginia and the District of Columbia through major suburbs 
to the northwest of Washington, is a major commuter route and is as wide 
as fourteen lanes at points. Both I-270 and the Capital Beltway were extremely 
congested; however, the Intercounty Connector (ICC; MD 200) alleviated 
some of the congestion over time. Construction of the ICC was a major part 
of the campaign platform of former Governor Robert Ehrlich, who was in 
office from 2003 until 2007, and of Governor Martin O'Malley, who succeeded 
him. I-595, which is an unsigned highway concurrent with US 50/US 301, 
is the longest unsigned interstate in the country and connects Prince George's 
County and Washington D.C. with Annapolis and the Eastern Shore via the 
Chesapeake Bay Bridge. Maryland also has a state highway system that contains 
routes numbered from 2 through 999, however most of the higher-numbered 
routes are either unsigned or are relatively short. Major state highways 
include Routes 2 (Governor Ritchie Highway/Solomons Island Road/Southern 
Maryland Blvd.), 4 (Pennsylvania Avenue/Southern Maryland Blvd./Patuxent 
Beach Road/St. Andrew's Church Road), 5 (Branch Avenue/Leonardtown Road/Point 
Lookout Road), 32, 45 (York Road), 97 (Georgia Avenue), 100 (Paul T. Pitcher 
Memorial Highway), 210 (Indian Head Highway), 235 (Three Notch Road), 295 
(Baltimore-Washington Parkway), 355 (Wisconsin Avenue/Rockville Pike/Frederick 
Road), 404 (Queen Anne Highway/ Shore Highway), and 650 (New Hampshire 
Avenue). Maryland's largest airport is Baltimore-Washington International 
Thurgood Marshall Airport, more commonly referred to as BWI. The airport 
is named for the Baltimore-born Thurgood Marshall, the first African-American 
Supreme Court justice. The only other airports with commercial service 
are at Hagerstown and Salisbury. The Maryland suburbs of Washington, D.C. 
are also served by the other two airports in the region, Ronald Reagan 
Washington National Airport and Dulles International Airport, both in Northern 
Virginia. The College Park Airport is the nation's oldest, founded in 1909, 
and is still used. Wilbur Wright trained military aviators at this location.[125][126] 
Amtrak trains, including the high speed Acela Express serve Baltimore's 
Penn Station, BWI Airport, New Carrollton, and Aberdeen along the Washington 
D.C. to Boston Northeast Corridor. In addition, train service is provided 
to Rockville and Cumberland by Amtrak's Washington, D.C., to Chicago Capitol 
Limited. The WMATA's Metrorail rapid transit and Metrobus local bus systems 
(the 2nd and 6th busiest in the nation of their respective modes) provide 
service in Montgomery and Prince George's counties and connect them to 
Washington D.C., with the express Metrobus Route B30 serving BWI Airport. 
The Maryland Transit Administration (often abbreviated as "MTA Maryland"), 
a state agency part of the Maryland Department of Transportation also provides 
transit services within the state. Headquartered in Baltimore, MTA's transit 
services are largely focused on central Maryland, as well as some portions 
of the Eastern Shore and Southern MD. Baltimore's Light Rail and Metro 
Subway systems serve its densely populated inner-city and the surrounding 
suburbs. The MTA also serves the city and its suburbs with its local bus 
service (the 9th largest system in the nation). The MTA's Commuter Bus 
system provides express coach service on longer routes connecting Washington 
D.C. and Baltimore to parts of Central and Southern MD as well as the Eastern 
Shore. The commuter rail service, known as MARC, operates three lines which 
all terminate at Washington Union Station and provide service to Baltimore's 
Penn and Camden stations, Perryville, Frederick, and Martinsburg, WV. In 
addition, many suburban counties operate their own local bus systems which 
connect to and complement the larger MTA and WMATA/Metro services. Freight 
rail transport is handled principally by two Class I railroads, as well 
as several smaller regional and local carriers. CSX Transportation has 
more extensive trackage throughout the state, with 560 miles (900 km),[127] 
followed by Norfolk Southern Railway. Major rail yards are located in Baltimore 
and Cumberland,[127] with an intermodal terminal (rail, truck and marine) 
in Baltimore.[128] The government of Maryland is conducted according to 
the state constitution. The government of Maryland, like the other 49 state 
governments, has exclusive authority over matters that lie entirely within 
the state's borders, except as limited by the Constitution of the United 
States. Power in Maryland is divided among three branches of government: 
executive, legislative, and judicial. The Maryland General Assembly is 
composed of the Maryland House of Delegates and the Maryland Senate. Maryland's 
governor is unique in the United States as the office is vested with significant 
authority in budgeting. The legislature may not increase the governor's 
proposed budget expenditures. Unlike many other states, significant autonomy 
is granted to many of Maryland's counties. Most of the business of government 
is conducted in Annapolis, the state capital. Elections for governor and 
most statewide offices, as well as most county elections, are held in midterm-election 
years (even-numbered years not divisible by four). The judicial branch 
of state government consists of one united District Court of Maryland that 
sits in every county and Baltimore City, as well as 24 Circuit Courts sitting 
in each County and Baltimore City, the latter being courts of general jurisdiction 
for all civil disputes over $30,000.00, all equitable jurisdiction and 
major criminal proceedings. The intermediate appellate court is known as 
the Court of Special Appeals and the state supreme court is the Court of 
Appeals. The appearance of the judges of the Maryland Court of Appeals 
is unique; Maryland is the only state whose judges wear red robes.[129] 
Maryland imposes five income tax brackets, ranging from 2 to 6.25 percent 
of personal income.[130] The city of Baltimore and Maryland's 23 counties 
levy local "piggyback" income taxes at rates between 1.25 and 3.2 percent 
of Maryland taxable income. Local officials set the rates and the revenue 
is returned to the local governments quarterly. The top income tax bracket 
of 9.45 percent is the fifth highest combined state and local income tax 
rates in the country, behind New York City's 11.35 percent, California's 
10.3 percent, Rhode Island's 9.9 percent, and Vermont's 9.5 percent.[131] 
Maryland's state sales tax is 6 percent. All real property in Maryland 
is subject to the property tax. Generally, properties that are owned and 
used by religious, charitable, or educational organizations or property 
owned by the federal, state or local governments are exempt. Property tax 
rates vary widely. No restrictions or limitations on property taxes are 
imposed by the state, meaning cities and counties can set tax rates at 
the level they deem necessary to fund governmental services. These rates 
can increase, decrease or remain the same from year to year. If the proposed 
tax rate increases the total property tax revenues, the governing body 
must advertise that fact and hold a public hearing on the new tax rate. 
This is called the Constant Yield Tax Rate process. Since before the Civil 
War, Maryland's elections have been largely controlled by the Democrats, 
even as the party's platform has changed considerably in that time. State 
elections are dominated by Baltimore and the populous suburban counties 
bordering Washington, D.C.: Montgomery and Prince George's. Forty-three 
percent of the state's population resides in these three jurisdictions, 
each of which contain large, traditionally Democratic voting bloc(s): African 
Americans in Baltimore and Prince George's, federal employees in Prince 
George's and Montgomery, and postgraduates in Montgomery. The remainder 
of the state, particularly Western Maryland and the Eastern Shore, is more 
supportive of Republicans. As of September 2016[update], Maryland has supported 
the Democratic nominee in each of the last six presidential elections, 
by an average margin of 15.4 percent.[citation needed] In 1980 it was one 
of six states to vote for Jimmy Carter. In recent years, Maryland has been 
among the most reliable states for Democratic nominees. In 1992, Bill Clinton 
fared better in Maryland than any other state except his home state of 
Arkansas. In 1996 Maryland was Clinton's sixth best, in 2000 Maryland ranked 
fourth for Gore and in 2004 John Kerry showed his fifth-best performance 
in Maryland. In 2008 Barack Obama won the state's 10 electoral votes with 
61.9 percent of the vote to John McCain's 36.5 percent. Both of Maryland's 
U.S. Senators and seven of its eight Representatives in Congress are Democrats, 
and Democrats hold a supermajority in the state Senate. Former Governor 
Robert Ehrlich was the first Republican to be elected to that office (in 
2002) in four decades, and after one term lost his seat to Baltimore Mayor 
Martin O'Malley, a Democrat. Ehrlich ran again for governor in 2010, losing 
again to O'Malley. While Republicans usually win more counties, by piling 
up large margins in the west and east, they are also usually swamped by 
the more densely populated and heavily Democratic Baltimore-Washington 
axis. In 2008, for instance, McCain won 17 counties to Obama's six; Obama 
also carried Baltimore City. While McCain won most of the western and eastern 
counties by margins of 2-to-1 or more, he was almost completely shut out 
in the larger counties surrounding Baltimore and Washington; every large 
county except Anne Arundel went for Obama.[132] U.S. Congressman Steny 
Hoyer (MD-5), a Democrat, was elected as Majority Leader for the 110th 
Congress of the House of Representatives, and 111th Congress, serving in 
that post from 2007 to 2011. His district covers parts of Anne Arundel 
and Prince George's counties, in addition to all of Charles, Calvert and 
St. Mary's counties in southern Maryland.[134] The 2006 election brought 
no significant change in this pattern of Democratic dominance. After Democratic 
Senator Paul Sarbanes announced that he was retiring, Democratic Congressman 
Benjamin Cardin defeated Republican Lieutenant Governor Michael S. Steele, 
with 55 percent of the vote, against Steele's 44 percent. While Maryland 
is a Democratic Party stronghold, perhaps its best known political figure 
is a Republican – former Governor Spiro Agnew, who served as United States 
Vice President under Richard Nixon. He was Vice President from 1969 to 
1973, when he resigned in the aftermath of revelations that he had taken 
bribes while he was Governor of Maryland. In late 1973 a court found Agnew 
guilty of violating tax laws. In 2010 Republicans won control of most counties. 
The Democratic Party remained in control of eight county governments including 
Baltimore City. [135] In 2014 Larry Hogan, a Republican, was elected Governor 
of Maryland.[136] Hogan is the second Republican to become the Governor 
of Maryland since Spiro Agnew's term ended in 1969. Education Week ranked 
Maryland #1 in its nationwide 2009–2013 Quality Counts reports.[citation 
needed] The College Board's 9th Annual AP Report to the Nation also ranked 
Maryland first.[citation needed] Primary and secondary education in Maryland 
is overseen by the Maryland State Department of Education, which is headquartered 
in Baltimore.[137] The highest educational official in the state is the 
State Superintendent of Schools, who is appointed by the State Board of 
Education to a four-year term of office. The Maryland General Assembly 
has given the Superintendent and State Board autonomy to make educationally 
related decisions, limiting its own influence on the day-to-day functions 
of public education. Each county and county-equivalent in Maryland has 
a local Board of Education charged with running the public schools in that 
particular jurisdiction. The budget for education was $5.5 billion in 2009, 
representing about 40 percent of the state's general fund.[138] Maryland 
has a broad range of private primary and secondary schools. Many of these 
are affiliated with various religious sects, including parochial schools 
of the Catholic Church, Quaker schools, Seventh-day Adventist schools, 
and Jewish schools. In 2003, Maryland law was changed to allow for the 
creation of publicly funded charter schools, although the charter schools 
must be approved by their local Board of Education and are not exempt from 
state laws on education, including collective bargaining laws. In 2008 
the state led the entire country in the percentage of students passing 
Advanced Placement examinations. 23.4 percent of students earned passing 
grades on the AP tests given in May 2008. This marks the first year that 
Maryland earned this honor.[139] Three Maryland high schools (in Montgomery 
County) were ranked among the top 100 in the country by US News in 2009, 
based in large part on AP test scores.[140] Maryland has several historic 
and renowned private colleges and universities, the most prominent of which 
is Johns Hopkins University, founded in 1876 with a grant from Baltimore 
entrepreneur Johns Hopkins. The first public university in the state is 
the University of Maryland, Baltimore, which was founded in 1807 and contains 
the University of Maryland's only public academic health, human services, 
and one of two law centers (the other being the University of Baltimore 
School of Law). Seven professional and graduate schools train the majority 
of the state's physicians, nurses, dentists, lawyers, social workers, and 
pharmacists.[141] The largest undergraduate institution in Maryland is 
the University of Maryland, College Park which was founded as the Maryland 
Agricultural College in 1856 and became a public land grant college in 
1864. Towson University, founded in 1866, is the state's second largest 
university. Baltimore is home to the University of Maryland, Baltimore 
County and the Maryland Institute College of Art. The majority of public 
universities in the state are affiliated with the University System of 
Maryland. Two state-funded institutions, Morgan State University and St. 
Mary's College of Maryland, as well as two federally funded institutions, 
the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences and the United 
States Naval Academy, are not affiliated with the University System of 
Maryland. St. John's College in Annapolis, Maryland and Washington College 
in Chestertown, Maryland, both private institutions, are the two oldest 
colleges in the state, and are among the oldest in the country. Other private 
institutions include Mount St. Mary's University, McDaniel College (formerly 
known as Western Maryland College), Hood College, Stevenson University 
(formerly known as Villa Julie College), Loyola University Maryland, and 
Goucher College, among others. Maryland's 24 public library systems deliver 
public education for everyone in the state of Maryland through a curriculum 
that comprises three pillars: Self-Directed Education (books and materials 
in all formats, e-resources), Research Assistance & Instruction (individualized 
research assistance, classes for students of all ages), and Instructive 
& Enlightening Experiences (e.g., Summer Reading Clubs, author events). 
Maryland's library systems include, in part: Many of the library systems 
have established formalized partnerships with other educational institutions 
in their counties and regions.[citation needed] With two major metropolitan 
areas, Maryland has a number of major and minor professional sports franchises. 
Two National Football League teams play in Maryland, the Baltimore Ravens 
in Baltimore City and the Washington Redskins in Landover. The Baltimore 
Colts represented the NFL in Baltimore from 1953 to 1983 before moving 
to Indianapolis. The Baltimore Orioles are the state's Major League Baseball 
franchise. The National Hockey League's Washington Capitals and the National 
Basketball Association's Washington Wizards formerly played in Maryland, 
until the construction of an arena in Downtown D.C. in 1997 (originally 
known as MCI Center, renamed Verizon Center in 2006). Maryland enjoys considerable 
historical repute for the talented sports players of its past, including 
Cal Ripken Jr. and Babe Ruth. In 2012, The Baltimore Sun published a list 
of Maryland's top ten athletes in the state's history. The list includes 
Babe Ruth, Cal Ripken Jr, Johnny Unitas, Brooks Robinson, Frank Robinson, 
Ray Lewis, Michael Phelps, Jimmie Foxx, Jim Parker, and Wes Unseld.[143] 
Other professional sports franchises in the state include five affiliated 
minor league baseball teams, one independent league baseball team, the 
Baltimore Blast indoor soccer team, two indoor football teams,three low-level 
outdoor soccer teams, and the Chesapeake Bayhawks of Major League Lacrosse. 
Maryland is also home to one of the three races in horse racing's annual 
Triple Crown, the Preakness Stakes, which is run every spring at Pimlico 
Race Course in Baltimore. The Congressional Country Club has hosted three 
golf tournaments for the U.S. Open and a PGA Championship. The official 
state sport of Maryland, since 1962, is jousting; the official team sport 
since 2004 is lacrosse.[144] The National Lacrosse Hall of Fame is located 
on the Johns Hopkins University campus in Baltimore. In 2008, intending 
to promote physical fitness for all ages, walking became the official state 
exercise. Maryland is the first state with an official state exercise.[145] 
