NPB MLB Masahiro Tanaka (田中 将大, Tanaka Masahiro?, born November 1, 1988) 
is a Japanese professional baseball starting pitcher for the New York Yankees 
of Major League Baseball (MLB). From 2007 through 2013, he played for the 
Tohoku Rakuten Golden Eagles in Nippon Professional Baseball's (NPB) Pacific 
League. Tanaka led his high school team to a championship in the National 
High School Baseball tournament as a junior for Komazawa University Tomakomai 
High School in 2005 and a runner-up berth in the same tournament as a senior 
in 2006. Tanaka was the Eagles' first-round pick in the 2006 NPB high school 
draft and was the team's ace until the end of the 2013 season. From 2012 
to 2013, he won 26 consecutive decisions, which broke an NPB record.[1] 
Tanaka was born in Itami, a city in Hyōgo, Japan. He began playing baseball 
in the first grade as a catcher for the Koyanosato Tigers (a Little League 
team) alongside current Yomiuri Giants shortstop Hayato Sakamoto, who was 
then the team's ace pitcher and Tanaka's batterymate.[citation needed] 
Tanaka and Sakamoto hit third and fourth in the lineup, respectively.[citation 
needed] He went on to play for the Takarazuka Boys while attending Itami 
Municipal Matsuzaki Junior High School, being used at both pitcher and 
catcher because of his strong throwing arm.[citation needed] He was chosen 
to the Junior All-South Kansai team in his third year of junior high—the 
equivalent of ninth grade in the United States.[citation needed] Tanaka 
moved on to Komazawa University Tomakomai High School in Hokkaidō, now 
playing solely as a pitcher for the team. Armed with a fastball that sat 
in high-80s and a hard slider, he led his team all the way to a championship 
in the 87th National High School Baseball tournament held at Koshien Stadium 
in the summer of his second year (eleventh grade).[2] His very last pitch 
of the tournament was clocked at 150 km/h (93 mph), the first time a pitcher 
had ever clocked that speed as a junior in the history of the tournament.[citation 
needed] Tanaka, already a highly coveted talent by NPB scouts, was chosen 
to the Japanese team that would play in the IBAF AAA World Junior Championships 
following the tournament and contributed to the team's title.[citation 
needed] Now given the uniform number 1 and officially appointed the team's 
ace pitcher,[citation needed] Tanaka led Tomakomai High to a regional title 
as well as a championship in the Meiji Jingu Tournament that fall, hitting 
home runs in four straight games in the latter himself. While his team 
was viewed as the favorite[by whom?] going into the 78th National High 
School Baseball Invitational Tournament to be held the following spring, 
Tomakomai High was forced to withdraw from the tournament because of allegations 
of misconduct of some of the players.[citation needed] Tomakomai High earned 
a berth in the 88th National High School Baseball Championship that summer. 
Tanaka managed to lead them to their third consecutive appearance in the 
tournament finals[3] despite being ill prior to the tournament.[citation 
needed] The team's coach did not start Tanaka in the finals against Waseda 
Jitsugyo High School (an affiliate school of Waseda University), opting 
to rest him due to the number of innings he had thrown in the last few 
games,[citation needed] but he ended up sending Tanaka to the mound in 
relief midway through the third inning. Tanaka held Waseda Jitsugyo to 
just one run and struck out 10, but the opponent's ace, Yuki Saito, held 
Tomakomai High to one run himself on seven hits. The game remained tied 
1-1 after 15 innings, forcing a rematch as per tournament regulations.[4] 
It was the first time in 37 years (since Matsuyama Commercial High School 
and Misawa High School met in the finals in 1969) that the tournament finals 
had resulted in a rematch.[citation needed] In the rematch that ensued 
the next day, Tanaka again came on in relief in the bottom of the first, 
but Tomakomai High lost to Waseda Jitsugyo despite his pitching the remaining 
7 1⁄3 innings of the game. (Tanaka was the last batter, striking out to 
end the game.) The pitchers' duel between Tanaka and Saito in the finals 
and the rematch that followed became on the most defining moments in all 
of sports in Japan that year.[citation needed] Tanaka, dealing with intestinal 
inflammation, threw 742 pitches in 52 2⁄3 innings (six appearances) in 
the tournament, striking out 54 and walking 20 with a 2.22 earned run average 
(ERA).[5] Both pitchers were chosen to play for Japan in the United States-Japan 
High School Baseball Tournament (organized by the Japanese Educational 
Resource Center in conjunction with the Major League Baseball Urban Youth 
Academy). Tomakomai High and Waseda Jitsugyo High met one last time in 
the finals of the Nojigiku Hyōgo National Sports Festival, the last tournament 
of Tanaka's high school career, but Tomakomai High was shut out by Saito 
and lost (1-0) to Waseda Jitsugyo, finishing second yet again. Tanaka struck 
out 458 batters over the course of his high school career (2004–2006), 
surpassing Daisuke Matsuzaka's previous national high school record of 
423 with Yokohama Senior High School. He also hit 13 home runs during those 
three years. After rival Yuki Saito announced that he would not be declaring 
for the upcoming draft, opting to go on to Waseda University instead, Tanaka 
became the single most highly touted high school player eligible to be 
picked.[6] On September 25, in the 2006 NPB high school draft, the Hokkaido 
Nippon Ham Fighters, Orix Buffaloes, Yokohama BayStars and Tohoku Rakuten 
Golden Eagles all selected Tanaka with their first-round picks.[7] The 
Golden Eagles drew the winning straw, signing him to a base salary of 15 
million yen, a signing bonus of 100 million yen and additional performance-based 
incentives, the equivalent of what a first-round college or industrial 
league-player would normally receive, on November 2. He was also given 
the uniform number 18, which typically denotes a team's staff ace in Japanese 
professional baseball.[citation needed] Tanaka was named to the Eagles' 
ichigun (Japanese equivalent of "major league") roster during Spring training 
of his rookie year, and made his professional debut on March 29 2007 against 
the Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks as the starting pitcher, but gave up six runs 
on six hits and a walk in 1 2⁄3 innings. Though he was not charged with 
a loss, as the Eagles made a furious comeback to tie the game up in the 
fourth, he was seen sitting in the dugout in tears after being taken out 
of the game.[citation needed] On April 18, in a home game against the Hawks, 
he held the team to two runs and struck out 13 in a complete game win,[8] 
the first win of his professional career. He became the first pitcher since 
current Texas Rangers ace Yu Darvish to throw a complete game shutout as 
a rookie out of high school on June 13 in an interleague game against the 
Chunichi Dragons.[9] He also became the first pitcher since Daisuke Matsuzaka 
in 1999 to be voted the starter of the NPB All-Star Game (representing 
the Pacific League) as a rookie out of high school,[10] starting in Game 
2 on July 22 and clocking a personal-high 153 km/h (95 mph) (though he 
gave up six runs in two innings in that start). On July 10, Tanaka recorded 
his 100th strikeout of the season in just 96 2⁄3 innings, tying the record 
for the fastest to reach 100 career strikeouts (in innings) held by former 
Hanshin Tigers pitcher Yutaka Enatsu.[citation needed] He became the first 
pitcher to record double-digit wins in Eagles franchise history (and the 
first to do so as a rookie out of high school in Japanese professional 
baseball since Matsuzaka) in a win against the Saitama Seibu Lions on August 
31.[citation needed] Tanaka finished the year with an 11-7 record and a 
3.82 ERA, faring particularly well against the Hawks (5-0 in six starts).[11] 
His 196 strikeouts were the second-most by any pitcher in either league 
(Pacific or Central) and the fourth-most as a rookie out of high school 
in Japanese professional baseball history. He was named the Pacific League 
Most Valuable Rookie, the first player out of high school to win the award 
since Matsuzaka.[12] In 2008, Tanaka was penciled into the front end of 
the Eagles' starting rotation for the second straight season.[13][14] He 
earned his first career win at Sapporo Dome, located in his former home 
of Hokkaido, in a win against the Fighters on May 4, drawing cheers from 
the crowd despite pitching for the away team. He came on in relief for 
the first time in his career in an interleague game against the Hiroshima 
Carp on June 22, recording his first career save.[15] Tanaka was able to 
make only 24 starts (as opposed to 28 in his rookie season), missing playing 
time because of both a brief rehab stint in the minors due to inflammation 
in his shoulder[16] and his participation in the 2008 Beijing Olympics 
as a member of the Japanese national team. He entered the last game of 
the regular season against the Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks with nine wins, looking 
to both earn his tenth win of the season and prevent the Eagles from finishing 
in last place. While he held the Hawks to no runs over nine innings, Hawks 
starter Toshiya Sugiuchi equaled his performance and Tanaka fell short 
of his goal of reaching double-digit wins. The Eagles eventually won in 
walk-off fashion in the twelfth inning, finishing one game ahead of the 
Hawks for fifth place in the regular season standings.[17] Tanaka got off 
to an utterly dominant start to the 2009 season, pitching a four-hit complete 
game shutout against the Hawks in his first start on April 7,[18] a one-run 
complete game win against the Chiba Lotte Marines on April 14[19] (his 
first career win against the Marines, the only other Pacific League team 
he had yet to record a win against), a three-hit complete game shutout 
against the Marines on April 22,[20] and an 11-strikeout, one-run complete 
game win against the Fighters on April 29. The fourth win marked the 1500th 
of Eagles manager Katsuya Nomura's career[21] and made Tanaka the first 
pitcher to start the season with four consecutive complete game wins since 
Satoru Komiyama (then with the Marines) and Shigetoshi Hasegawa (Orix BlueWave) 
both accomplished the feat in 1993. However, though he went 4–0 with a 
0.50 ERA for the month of April, striking out 37 and allowing just 24 baserunners 
in 36 innings and winning Pacific League monthly Most Valuable Player honors 
for the first time in his career, he was removed from the active roster 
on April 30 with a minor shoulder strain as a result of fatigue.[22] He 
returned to the team on May 13, pitching seven innings of three run-ball 
against the Fighters for his fifth straight win to start the season.[23] 
On September 13, 2013, Tanaka set a new NPB record with his 21st consecutive 
win in the 2013 season in a 6–2 complete game victory over the Orix Buffaloes 
at home in Sendai at Kleenex Stadium. This victory was Tanaka's 25th consecutive 
win, including his final four starts in 2012. It also eclipsed the longest 
consecutive winning streak for MLB pitchers, set at 24 by Carl Hubbell 
in the 1936 and 1937 seasons.[24] On September 26, 2013, Tanaka relieved 
to close the last 2⁄3 inning. With a one run lead, he sealed the victory 
and the Eagles' first Pacific League title.[25] It was his first appearance 
as a closer in the 2013 season. He ended the regular season with a 24–0 
record and 1.27 ERA, tops in both leagues. He also became the second post-war 
starting pitcher with an undefeated season with minimum innings required 
for an ERA title since Shigekuni Mashiba. Tanaka went on to win his second 
Sawamura Award as the Golden Eagles competed for their first Japan Series 
title.[26] Taking postseason games into account, his 2013 record was 30-1. 
The lone loss came in Game 6 of the 2013 Japan Series, a 160-pitch complete 
game, and he avenged that loss as he picked up the save in the decisive 
Game 7. Tanaka was repeatedly scouted by MLB representatives during the 
2013 season. Through the revised posting system, Rakuten posted Tanaka 
to MLB during the 2013-14 offseason at a fee of $20 million. On December 
26, 2013, all 30 MLB teams were notified that the 30-day period to sign 
the 25-year-old right-hander began at 8 a.m. EST. Clubs had until 5 p.m. 
EST on January 24, 2014, to reach an agreement with Tanaka, who is represented 
by agent Casey Close.[27][28] During the month-long period following Tanaka's 
posting, teams reported to be serious suitors included the New York Yankees, 
Los Angeles Dodgers, Chicago Cubs, Chicago White Sox, Arizona Diamondbacks, 
and Houston Astros.[29] On January 22, 2014, Tanaka signed a seven-year 
contract worth $155 million with the Yankees. The contract contains an 
opt-out clause after the fourth year and a full no-trade clause.[30] Tanaka 
made his Major League debut on April 4, 2014 against the Toronto Blue Jays 
and gave up a home run to the first batter he faced, ex-Yankee Melky Cabrera. 
Tanaka would received his first MLB win in the game; pitching 7 innings 
with 8 strikeouts in the Yankees 7-3 win against the Blue Jays. Tanaka 
made his first Yankees home start on April 9, 2014 against the Baltimore 
Orioles where he struck out 10 in 7 innings but received a no-decision 
as the Yankees lost the game 4-5. During an interleague game against the 
New York Mets on May 14, 2014, Tanaka recorded his first Major League hit 
off of José Valverde and pitched his first complete game in the Majors 
as the Yankees shut out the Mets 4-0. Tanaka received his first loss in 
the MLB on May 20, 2014 as the Yankees lost to the Chicago Cubs 1-6; it 
was his first loss in any professional baseball league since August 19, 
2012. In June, Tanaka recorded his 100th strikeout of the season, along 
with another complete game; losing his bid for a complete game shutout 
by giving up a two run homer in the 9th inning to former Yankee Robinson 
Canó, who left the Yankees in the offseason to join the Seattle Mariners, 
before striking out the final two batters of the game. Tanaka became the 
first Yankees rookie to win 12 games by the All-Star break and was selected 
to the Major League Baseball All-Star Game as a reserve for The American 
League .[31][32] He and teammate Dellin Betances were the first Yankees 
rookie pitchers to earn an All-Star Game nod since Spec Shea in 1947.[33] 
After losing to the Cleveland Indians 3-5 on July 8, 2014, Tanaka began 
to experience discomfort in his right arm and on July 9, 2014, Tanaka was 
placed on the disabled list due to right elbow inflammation.[34] An MRI 
revealed that his elbow had a partially torn UCL. At the behest of several 
doctors, Tanaka received a PRP shot from Yankees Head Team Physician Dr. 
Christopher Ahmad,[35] and rested his elbow for 6 weeks rather than have 
Tommy John surgery to repair his UCL. Tanaka returned on September 21 against 
the Blue Jays, receiving his 13th win of the season in the Yankees 5-2 
win over the Blue Jays, he would only pitch one more time during the 2014 
season; a loss to the Boston Red Sox in which he gave up seven runs in 
1 2/3 innings.[36] In 20 starts of his first Major League season in 2014, 
Tanaka posted a 2.77 ERA with 141 strikeouts; however after his 2014 season 
there was much speculation by sports media and fans that Tanaka should 
have undergone surgery rather than rehab the injury as suggested by his 
doctors, this was mostly due to the belief that he would need to get the 
surgery despite the rehab program.[37] Tanaka was chosen by Joe Girardi 
to be the Opening Day starter for the Yankees. He made the start on opening 
day of April 6, 2015 against the Blue Jays, surrendering 5 runs in the 
third inning including a home run by Edwin Encarnación as the Yankees lost 
to the Blue Jays 6-1. On April 28, Tanaka was placed on the Disabled list 
with forearm and wrist soreness, this and his poor start to the season 
led many in the sports media to speculate that despite the recommendation 
of his doctors Tanaka should undergo Tommy John surgery.[38][39][40] He 
returned to the Majors on June 3 against the Seattle Mariners, where he 
pitched 7 innings with 9 strikeouts as the Yankees won 3-1 over the Mariners.[41] 
Tanaka's season ended with a 3-0 loss to the Houston Astros in the American 
League Wild Card game, in which he pitched five innings and allowed two 
earned runs.[42] Tanaka was the only player to be chosen to the national 
team to play in the 2008 Beijing Olympics from the Eagles, becoming the 
youngest Japanese baseball player to play in the Olympics as a pro in the 
history of the event. He pitched in relief in Japan's first game against 
Cuba in the group stage, throwing one scoreless inning and striking out 
three. While Tanaka saw limited playing time as a middle reliever for the 
team, he recorded a 0.00 ERA and the highest strikeout rate of any pitcher 
on the team.[43] He also played for Japan in the 2009 World Baseball Classic, 
coming on in relief for Satoshi Komatsu midway through the sixth inning 
of the seeding match against South Korea in the second round but surrendering 
a home run to Lee Bum-Ho (Japan won 6-2). He pitched in the semi-finals 
against the United States, giving up a triple to Jimmy Rollins but striking 
out David Wright to end the inning, contributing to Japan's second consecutive 
championship in the tournament. Tanaka was highly expected to be the staff 
ace of Team Japan in the 2013 WBC, but poor form in the build-up to the 
tournament led to concern over his performance.[44] He started the pool 
opener against Brazil and conceded an unearned run. He came on as a reliever 
against Cuba and again conceded a run, before appearing to return to his 
usual form by striking out 6 batters in 2 innings. Tanaka again came on 
as a reliever against Chinese Taipei and had 2 good innings, shutting out 
the side with 4 strike outs, before conceding the equalizer in his third 
inning at the bottom of the 8th. Up to that point, Tanaka's inconsistency 
produced an ERA of 3.00, allowing 10 hits and 3 runs (2 earned) in 6 innings 
while striking out 10.[45] Bold indicates league leader; statistics current 
as of September 30, 2015 Tanaka is a right-handed pitcher who throws from 
a high three-quarter arm slot in a drop-and-drive motion. He throws two 
fastballs (four-seam, two-seam) usually in the low-90s that top out at 
97 mph. He also has a plus 84–88 mph splitter with late downward action, 
a slider in the low to mid-80s, and an occasional curveball.[46][47][48] 
Tanaka has added a cutter to repertoire in his MLB career.[49] Tanaka is 
often affectionately referred to as Mā-kun (マー君, Mā-kun?) by both fans 
and the media.[50][51] The nickname stuck after Tanaka and Saito told the 
media that that was what Tanaka was called on the team during the U.S.-Japan 
High School Baseball Tournament that followed the national tournament in 
2006. Eagles manager Katsuya Nomura also often refers to Tanaka as "Mā-kun" 
in interviews. While older players on the team generally call Tanaka by 
his surname, some call him by the abbreviated nickname "Mā".[citation needed] 
Tanaka has publicly declared himself a zealous fan of Momoiro Clover Z, 
a popular female idol group in Japan.[52][53] He has attended the group's 
concerts multiple times.[54] When practicing he wears custom-made multicolored 
gloves in the five Momoiro Clover Z member colors (pictured)[55] and he 
plays official games in gloves embroidered with a clover leaf.[56] When 
his baseball team presented its fan club members with "cheering goods", 
the towel saying "Tanaka" used the same five colors.[57] At the game in 
which the pitcher set a new Japanese professional baseball record of 16 
consecutive victories in one season, cheer banners of the same color scheme 
were distributed among the spectators.[58] He has used the group's songs 
as his "warm-up song" (music that is played at a baseball game when a pitcher 
appears on the field and does his warm-up routine).[59] After he joined 
Yankees, his warm-up song at home games is "My Dear Fellow" by Momoiro 
Clover Z. This song was specially made for Tanaka and unveiled when he 
debuted at Yankee Stadium, before it was released in Japan.[60] New York 
Post said that "for when the rookie threw his warmup pitches, he did so 
to the accompaniment of a Japanese pop song — a tune unlike any other ever 
played here … Who else arrives in town with customized musical accompaniment?"[61] 
NJ.com, the biggest news website in New Jersey, said "Like Tanaka, the 
act is a Japanese sensation. And like Momoiro Clover Z, Tanaka made his 
presence vociferously known in the Bronx."[62] Tanaka was engaged to Mai 
Satoda, former member and current supervisor of the idol group Country 
Musume and television personality, on January 26, 2012.[63] They officially 
registered their marriage on March 20 of the same year.[64] The wedding 
ceremony was held in Hawaii in December 2012.[65] Satoda is also a fan 
of Momoiro Clover Z.[66] On October 5, 2014, Tanaka and Satoda were seen 
attending a Morning Musume concert in New York. Morning Musume is the flagship 
group of Hello! Project, the same organization under which Satoda worked 
