The Massachusetts College of Liberal Arts, also known as MCLA, is a public, 
residential, liberal arts college that offers both undergraduate and graduate 
programs. Located in North Adams, Massachusetts, it is part of the state 
university system of Massachusetts.[2] It is a member of the Council of 
Public Liberal Arts Colleges. Originally established as part of the state's 
normal school system for training teachers, it now offers a wide variety 
of programs leading to Bachelor of Science and Arts degrees, as well as 
a Master of Education track. MCLA was founded in 1894 as North Adams Normal 
School, and it offered first instruction at post-secondary level three 
years later. In 1932, North Adams Normal School became State Teachers College 
of North Adams. Along with the name change, it added an upper-division 
curriculum and awarded the first degree (baccalaureate). Four years later, 
the school instituted an upper-graduate program. In 1960, the college changed 
its name to North Adams State College and, later in 1997, to Massachusetts 
College of Liberal Arts, the latter name reflecting its position as the 
public liberal arts college within the Massachusetts state university system. 
In 2004, President Mary Grant initiated collaborations with other institutions 
to strengthen MCLA's leadership position. The college launched the Berkshire 
Compact for Higher Education and MCLA Gallery 51.[3] MCLA also is the lead 
partner in the Berkshire STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) 
Pipeline Network. In 2008, Governor Deval Patrick signed the Higher Education 
Bond Bill that includes $54.5 million for a new Center for Science and 
Innovation at MCLA. On Oct. 4, 2013 the newly named Feigenbaum Center for 
Science and Innovation was opened on the MCLA campus.[4] In 2014, Dr. Mary 
Grant left the college and Dr. Cynthia F. Brown was appointed Interim President 
of the college. On March 5, 2015, Dr. Greg Summers was unanimously named 
the 12th President of the school by the college's board of trustees. Dr. 
Summers later withdrew his acceptance to be the 12th President of the Massachusetts 
College of Liberal Arts, citing family health concerns.[5] On December 
9, 2015, Dr. Jamie Birge was chosen by the trustees to be the 12th President 
of the school.[6] MCLA has a rolling admissions plan but requires graduation 
from an accredited secondary school or a GED. MCLA uses SAT or ACT composite 
scores for entrance consideration. MCLA accepts transfer students with 
grade-point average requirements or with an associate degree. MCLA awards 
the bachelor of arts and a bachelor of science on the undergraduate level 
and also confers master's degrees in both education and business administration, 
as well as a Certificate of Advanced Graduate Study (CAGS). MCLA offers 
19 major programs of study and 35 minors. On average, MCLA offers 300 academic 
courses each semester. Graduation from MCLA requires completing 120 credits 
of academic work. From these 120 credits, about 40 should be college-wide 
core curriculum credits. Another 40 credits are required to complete a 
major. Like many higher education programs, 40 upper-division credits are 
also required. MCLA has a college residence requirement saying at least 
45 credits must be earned in residence at the college. Students must earn 
at least a 2.0 grade point average overall and a 2.0 in their major. MCLA 
offers internships for undergraduates through the Berkshire Hills Internship 
Program. It also offers undergraduates coursework in other countries through 
its travel abroad program. MCLA belongs to the Massachusetts Council for 
International Education (MaCIE), College Consortium for International Studies 
(CCIS), and the National Student Exchange (NSE). Through these associations 
and connections, students are sent on semester- or year-long programs to 
colleges around the world. The college Honors Program[7] includes ten percent 
of the student body for whom it offers special interdisciplinary courses 
in such topics as "The Mathematics of Fairness," "Ethics and Animals" or 
"The Romantic Movement." The college is authorized by the state to grant 
the distinction "Commonwealth Scholar" to students who complete the honors 
program with a capstone thesis. MCLA has 13 varsity sports. The college's 
varsity teams compete in the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) 
at the NCAA Division III level in the Massachusetts State Collegiate Athletic 
Conference (MASCAC). Active intercollegiate female teams are basketball, 
volleyball, tennis, cross country, soccer, softball, and lacrosse; while 
active intercollegiate male teams are baseball, basketball, golf, cross 
country, tennis and soccer. From 1963, the college's athletic teams were 
known as the Mohawks, after the Mohawk Trail which runs along Massachusetts 
Route 2. In response to concerns over using a Native American name (Francis 
Boots, cultural-preservation officer of the Mohawk tribe, has told college 
officials that his people were not honored by the name[8]), the mascot 
was changed to the Trailblazers in 2002. In 2013, a new mascot, the Mountain 
Lion, was adopted.[9] The most successful team in the college's history 
was the men's ice hockey team, which was cut in 2003. MCLA is governed 
by the Massachusetts Board of Higher Education. Beyond that, MCLA has extra-institutional 
representation of 11 voting members and the Board of Trustees, whose members 
are appointed by the governor which has 11 voting members. A student representative 
to the board of trustees is elected every spring by the student body to 
sit for one academic year. Administration positions include 12 men and 
24 women. Academic affairs is headed by the vice president for academic 
affairs. Business and finances is headed by the vice president for administration 
and finance. Student affairs is headed by the vice president of student 
affairs. The full-time instructional faculty has 52 men and 36 women. The 
academic governance body, All College Committee, meets an average of nine 
times each year. The school has two student publications: The Beacon,[10] 
a weekly newspaper, and Spires, a literary magazine published each year. 
Radio Station WJJW broadcasts for 140 hours each week. MCLA also has one 
faculty publication: The Mind's Eye,[11] and one alumni publication, Beacons 
