Route 9 is a major east–west state highway in Massachusetts. Along with 
U.S. Route 20, Route 2, and Interstate 90, Route 9 is one of the major 
east–west routes of Massachusetts, and like the others its eastern terminus 
is in Boston. Starting at Copley Square and passing along Huntington Avenue, 
Route 9 is a limited access route through the MetroWest suburbs to Worcester, 
and is also a major alternative to the Pike's toll road west of the city. 
After passing along major city streets in that city, the road becomes a 
country route, passing through the central Worcester Hills, the Pioneer 
Valley, and the city of Northampton, and into The Berkshires. The road 
ends near the center of the city of Pittsfield. Route 9 passes through 
six counties and twenty-eight cities and towns. It begins in the western 
Massachusetts city of Pittsfield, at U.S. Route 20. It has a concurrency 
with U.S. Route 7 during its first mile through the center of that city, 
then continues east, passing through the towns of Dalton and Windsor, wherein 
the route reaches its highest point at 2033 ft, in Berkshire County. It 
continues its winding pass through the small towns of The Berkshires in 
Berkshire and western Hampshire Counties before passing through the center 
of Northampton, passing Smith College before its first interstate junction, 
at Interstate 91. It then crosses the Connecticut River at the Calvin Coolidge 
Bridge, just downstream from Elwell Island. It goes past the retail area 
of Hadley before passing the University of Massachusetts Amherst and Amherst 
College. From Amherst, it winds its way into western Worcester County, 
south of the Quabbin Reservoir, through small towns until it makes its 
way into the city of Worcester. Once in Worcester, Route 9 becomes a major 
thoroughfare through the city, as Park Avenue, Highland Street (which passes 
Worcester Center Boulevard), before passing over Interstate 290 and Belmont 
Street, where University of Massachusetts Medical School and the former 
Worcester State Hospital are located. From Worcester, it crosses Lake Quinsigamond 
into Shrewsbury. At this point, Route 9 becomes the main retail artery 
of the MetroWest region. Several plazas and chain stores are located along 
the route as it makes its way towards Northborough, where it crosses U.S. 
Route 20; Westborough, where it crosses Interstate 495; and eventually 
in the Golden Triangle retail area of Framingham and Natick, after crossing 
the Massachusetts Turnpike. It passes Shopper's World and the Natick Mall, 
New England's largest mall. Beginning in the Golden Triangle, Route 9 becomes 
one of the major routes into Boston, serving as a valuable bypass to the 
Mass Pike and its tolls. It crosses Interstate 95 (also known as Massachusetts 
Route 128) in Wellesley before crossing the Charles River into Newton and 
Brookline. It enters the city of Boston by crossing over Brookline's former 
namesake, the Muddy River, part of the Emerald Necklace. at this point 
it becomes Huntington Avenue, also known as "Avenue of the Arts." It passes 
the Longwood Medical and Academic Area, which includes Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Harvard Medical School and other hospitals; the Museum of Fine 
Arts; and several colleges and universities, including Northeastern University. 
This stretch is also a major site of baseball history; the first game of 
the 1903 World Series, baseball's first true World Series, was played at 
the Huntington Avenue Grounds, the original home of the Boston Red Sox. 
(The site is now part of Northeastern's campus.) The "E" Branch of the 
MBTA Green Line roughly follows Huntington Avenue underground from Copley 
Square until it rises above ground at the Northeastern Portal. It then 
operates in a dedicated median of Huntington Avenue between Northeastern 
University and the Brigham Circle stop, where trains begin street running 
in mixed traffic to a terminus at Heath Street. Route 9 continues past 
Symphony Hall and The First Church of Christ, Scientist, which is the mother 
church of Christian Science. It then passes Copley Place and the Prudential 
Center complex, before splitting, the eastbound half onto Stuart Street, 
the westbound onto Saint James Street, past Copley Square; both the eastbound 
and westbound segments of Route 9 end at Route 28. From Dalton to Goshen 
in the Berkshires, the road follows the old Berkshire Trail. The massive 
expansion of the University of Massachusetts Amherst transformed that part 
of Route 9 in the late 20th century; this otherwise rural part of the route 
now has several shops, restaurants, and the mid-sized Hampshire Mall. Between 
Worcester and Boston, Route 9 follows the path of the 19th-century Worcester 
Turnpike, opened in 1810. This route originally included a floating bridge 
over Lake Quinsigamond in Shrewsbury. In the 20th century, Route 9 became 
the focus for urban sprawl in towns like Newton and Wellesley. Further 
west, in Framingham, Route 9 was home to one of the first modern shopping 
malls, the aptly named Shoppers' World. In Natick, Route 9 is officially 
the "Ted Williams Highway", named after the Red Sox sports legend Ted Williams, 
who sported that number.[2] In Newton, it is officially the "United Spanish 
War Veterans Highway". From 1903 to 1932, the Boston and Worcester Street 
Railway ran mostly via Route 9. Today the E branch of the MBTA's Green 
Line follows Route 9 along Huntington Avenue. For more information, refer 
to the Massachusetts Highway Project Listing.[3] Eastbound entering Leicester 
Downtown Spencer Downtown Ware Eastbound in Windsor Route map: Bing / Google 
