Masumi Kuwata (桑田 真澄 Kuwata Masumi, born 1 April 1968 in Yao, Osaka, Japan) 
is a former Japanese right-handed pitcher who played the bulk of his career 
with the Yomiuri Giants of Nippon Professional Baseball. He pitched 21 
seasons with the Giants, beginning in 1986. Near the end of his career, 
he played part of one season with the Pittsburgh Pirates of Major League 
Baseball. Kuwata entered the prestigious PL (Perfect Liberty) High School 
in Osaka. He and his teammate Kazuhiro Kiyohara immediately became stars 
in high school baseball. Kuwata led his team to five Koshien tournaments, 
winning the tournament twice. He won 20 games at Koshien, which is second 
only to Masao Yoshida's 23 wins. The Yomiuri Giants drafted Kuwata in the 
1st round in 1985. The draft generated some controversy, since Kuwata had 
repeatedly expressed a desire to enter Waseda University, prompting other 
teams to refrain from picking him in the draft. Kuwata reversed his previous 
statements and immediately signed with the Yomiuri Giants, adding fuel 
to rumors that he had conspired with the Giants to avoid being picked by 
other teams. Kuwata quickly established his presence in the professional 
leagues, winning 15 games in his second year (1987) with a 2.17 ERA, the 
lowest in the league. Major League pitcher Bill Gullickson played for the 
Giants in 1988–1989, and befriended Kuwata. Gullickson named his son Craig 
Kuwata Gullickson after Kuwata, and gave much advice to the Japanese pitcher. 
Kuwata has said his dream of playing in the Major Leagues came from Gullickson. 
However, many obstacles kept him from realizing this dream — including 
his great success in Nippon Professional Baseball. He won the Eiji Sawamura 
Award (the Japanese equivalent of the Cy Young Award) the same year, and 
won over ten games for six consecutive seasons starting in 1992. Kuwata 
suffered a severe injury to his right elbow while attempting to catch a 
pop fly in June, 1995, ending his season. Kuwata had surgery in the U.S., 
and spent the rest of 1995 and all of 1996 in rehab. He made a comeback 
in 1997, winning 10 games, and 16 games in 1998, but his pitching had deteriorated 
considerably compared to the years before his injury, particularly with 
a loss of velocity off his fastball. Kuwata considered retirement during 
the 2001 off-season, but Giants general manager Tatsunori Hara convinced 
him to remain on the team. On April 19, 2002, Kuwata pitched brilliantly 
in defeating Hanshin Tigers ace Kei Igawa by a score of 1-0, and showed 
he could still be an important part of the Giants' rotation.[1] Kuwata 
went on to have a banner year in 2002, posting a 2.22 ERA (lowest in the 
league), and winning over 10 games for the first time in four years. However, 
he pitched poorly from 2003-2006, appearing in a total of only 45 games 
(44 starts), while compiling an overall 9-16 record during those four years. 
Kuwata pitched 118 complete games during his career in Japan.[2] At the 
end of the 2006 season, Kuwata surprised fans by announcing his intent 
to play in the Major Leagues.[3] In December 2006 Kuwata signed a minor 
league contract with the Pittsburgh Pirates as a 38-year-old rookie, ending 
his 21-year stay with the Yomiuri Giants. Despite interest from the Boston 
Red Sox and the Los Angeles Dodgers, Kuwata chose Pittsburgh because he 
thought the Pirates offered him the best opportunity to pitch in the majors. 
Kuwata participated in spring training with the Pirates, but injured his 
right ankle, ending his hopes of making their Opening Day roster. The Pirates 
placed him on their Triple-A Indianapolis Indians roster as a disabled 
player, giving him a chance to work his way up to the majors. On June 9, 
2007, Kuwata was promoted to the Pittsburgh Pirates after reliever Salomón 
Torres was placed on the disabled list. He became the first Japanese player 
in Pirates team history. He made his Major League debut June 10, 2007[4] 
in a game against the New York Yankees. At that time he was 39 years old, 
which was the oldest debut with the exception of Satchel Paige and Diomedes 
Olivo in the post-World War II era. He gave up two runs in 2 innings on 
a home run to third baseman Alex Rodriguez. On August 14, the Pirates designated 
Kuwata for assignment.[5] The Pirates outrighted him to Triple-A on August 
17 but Kuwata refused the assignment. Afterwards, he returned home to Japan. 
In December 2007, Kuwata signed a minor league contract with the Pirates 
for the 2008 season. The contract included an invitation to spring training 
with the team. Kuwata announced his retirement from baseball on March 26, 
2008 after not making the team out of spring training.[6] Upon announcing 
his retirement, the Pittsburgh Pirates offered Kuwata a coaching position 
with the club, but he declined. After returning to Japan, he became a commentator 
for the Sports Hochi daily newspaper, Nippon Television's NPB live programs, 
and Tokyo Broadcasting System Television's MLB programs. On January 28, 
2009, at age 40, he was accepted into the Graduate School of Sport Sciences 
of Waseda University, and he went on to graduate first in his class. His 
thesis describes the "Yakyu-Do", the soul and spirit of Japanese baseball, 
which has been an integral part of the game from its earliest days in Japan 
during the Meiji Era to the present.[7] Kuwata is also an outspoken critic 
of the hazing and physical punishment that is prevalent in Japanese sports. 
Kuwata was hired to coach the University of Tokyo baseball team in 2013.[8] 
