Matanzas (Spanish pronunciation: [maˈtansas]) is the capital of the Cuban 
province of Matanzas. Known for its poets, culture, and Afro-Cuban folklore, 
it is located on the northern shore of the island of Cuba, on the Bay of 
Matanzas (Spanish Bahia de Matanzas), 90 kilometres (56 mi) east of the 
capital Havana and 32 kilometres (20 mi) west of the resort town of Varadero. 
Matanzas is called the City of Bridges, for the seventeen bridges that 
cross the three rivers that traverse the city (Rio Yumuri, San Juan, and 
Canimar). For this reason it was referred to as the "Venice of Cuba." It 
was also called "La Atenas de Cuba" ("The Athens of Cuba") for its poets. 
Matanzas is known as the birthplace of the music and dance traditions danzón 
and rumba. Matanzas was founded in 1693 as San Carlos y San Severino de 
Matanzas.[1] This followed a royal decree ("real cédula") issued on September 
25, 1690, which decreed that the bay and port of Matanzas be settled by 
30 families from the Canary Islands.[4] Matanzas was one of the regions 
that saw intensive development of sugar plantations during the colonial 
era. Consequently, many African slaves were imported to support the sugar 
industry, particularly during the first half of the nineteenth century. 
For example, in 1792 there were 1900 slaves in Matanzas, roughly 30% of 
its population. In 1817, the slave population of Matanzas had grown to 
10,773, comprising nearly 50% of the overall population. By 1841, 53,331 
slaves made up 62.7% of the population of Matanzas.[5] Census figures for 
1859 put the Matanzas slave population at 104,519.[5] Matanzas was the 
site of several slave insurrections and plots, including the infamous Escalera 
conspiracy (discovered in late 1843). Due to the high number of both slaves 
and, importantly, free Afro-Cubans in Matanzas, the retention of African 
traditions is especially strong there. In 1898, Matanzas became the location 
of the first action in the Spanish–American War. The city was bombarded 
by American Navy vessels on April 25, 1898, just after the beginning of 
the war. The name Matanzas means "massacre" and refers to a putative slaughter 
at the port of the same name, in which 30 Spanish soldiers tried to cross 
one of the rivers to attack an aboriginal camp on the far shore. The Spanish 
soldiers had no boats, so they enlisted the help of native fishermen. However, 
once they reached the middle of the river, the fishermen flipped the boats, 
and due to the Spanish soldiers' heavy metal armor, most of them drowned.[6] 
Only two women—one said to be the beautiful María de Estrada—survived, 
the result of being "taken" by a Cacique. De Estrada is said to have later 
escaped the "power of the Cacique" and married Pedro Sánchez Farfán in 
the city of Trinidad. From 1900 to the 1950s Portuguese descendants moved 
to Cuba because of hard times and they settled in Matanzas to live and 
work with their families. Because of this change to Cuba's atmosphere, 
the town changed and people spoke Portuguese and Spanish, some not all, 
but that was the way of the town. The city is located on the north shore 
of the island of Cuba, on all three sides of the Bay of Matanzas. The bay 
cuts deep in the island, and three rivers flow in the bay inside city limits 
(Rio Yumuri, San Juan, and Canimar). To the south-east, the landscape rises 
into a hill called Pan de Matanzas, divided from the Atlantic coast by 
the Yumuri Valley and a coastal ridge. The city of Matanzas is divided 
into three neighborhoods: Versalles, Matanzas, and Pueblo Nuevo. The municipality 
is divided into the barrios of Bachicha, Bailén, Barracones, Bellamar, 
Camarioca, Cárcel, Ceiba Mocha, Colón, Corral Nuevo, Guanábana, Ojo de 
Agua, Refugio, San Luis, San Severino, Simpson y Monserrate, Versalles 
and Yumurí.[1] Matanzas is served by Juan Gualberto Gómez Airport, 15 km 
east of the city. The city has two railway stations. The main station is 
on the main line from Havana to Santiago de Cuba. The electrified Hershey 
train operates by a different route to Havana from a separate station in 
the barrio of Versalles. Matanzas is also served by Viazul and Astro buses. 
The Via Blanca highway connects the city with both Havana in the west and 
Varadero in the east. The University of Matanzas is the province's secondary 
education institution. In 2004, the municipality of Matanzas had a population 
of 143,706.[3] With a total area of 317 km2 (122 sq mi),[2] it has a population 
density of 453.3/km2 (1,174/sq mi). Canimar bridge, over Canimar river 
in Matanzas Matanza's Spanish Casino Vintage cars cruising a plaza in Matanzas 
Street scene in Matanzas Street scene in Matanzas Street scene in Matanzas 
