Match fixing related to gambling is a problem in many sports. According 
to Sportradar, a company that monitors the integrity of sports events on 
behalf of sports federations, as many as 1% of the matches they monitor 
are likely to be fixed.[1] While British football has never been rocked 
by match fixing allegations on the scale of the Black Sox scandal (the 
aforementioned incidents involved league matches, not major championships), 
football match-fixing has become a serious problem in parts of Continental 
Europe. Cricket has been scandalized by several gambling and match fixing 
allegations in recent years, particularly the case of Hansie Cronje in 
the late 1990s, culminating in the World Cup investigations of 2007. These 
highly publicised enquiries were prompted by the surprise defeat of Pakistan 
in the Cup by Ireland and the subsequent murder investigation into the 
sudden death, straight after the match, of Pakistan's head coach Bob Woolmer. 
According to the head of the ICC's anti-corruption unit Paul Condon, cricket 
is the most bet on sport in the world, and fixing is found at every level 
of the sport and is a significant problem.[2] The 2008 novel Raffles and 
the Match-Fixing Syndicate, by Adam Corres, places E. W. Hornung's A. J. 
Raffles, 'the gentleman thief', into the world of cricket match-fixing. 
This black humour comedy includes speculation on the infamous Hansie Cronje 
and Bob Woolmer incidents and features serious aspects of cricket gamesmanship 
or 'how to defeat a superior opponent without actually cheating', a vital 
skill in the cricketing psychology of 'thinking the batsman out'. The high 
salaries of some of today's professional athletes likely serves to insulate 
their leagues from player-instigated match fixing. In the NCAA and in leagues 
where the salaries are comparatively less (or, in the case of the amateur 
NCAA, zero), match fixing by players remains a serious concern. Regardless 
of the verdict of juries, no player who throws a ball game, no player who 
undertakes or promises to throw a ball game, no player who sits in confidence 
with a bunch of crooked ballplayers and gamblers, where the ways and means 
of throwing a game are discussed and does not promptly tell his club about 
it, will ever play professional baseball. Influenced by baseball's experiences, 
the NFL and NBA have followed MLB's lead and adopted a hard line against 
gambling on its games, especially by those directly involved in the league. 
The NCAA takes an even harder line: Each of these organizations was, and 
may still be influenced by fears that their games could come under the 
influence of gamblers in the absence of these tough measures. Critics of 
such hard line measures note that in spite of such policies, such influence 
nonetheless does occur. When international motorcycle racing (MotoGP and 
World Superbike) race in the United States, the online gambling sites that 
advertise are prohibited from having their advertising on the motorcycles, 
owing to the similar hard line against gambling enforced by the majority 
of sports federations in the country. AMA Pro Racing (the ASN for the FIM 
in the United States) regulations prohibit gambling advertising and prohibit 
participants from betting on races. In Britain the authorities in both 
government and sport have taken a softer line on gambling. Following decades 
of relatively lax, intermittent and ineffective enforcement of laws prohibiting 
gambling, sports betting was finally legalized and regulated in the 1960s. 
Organizations such as The Football Association seem to have taken the stance 
that gambling on their events is inevitable. The FA only prohibits betting 
on a match by those directly involved in the game in question. Footballers 
(or coaches, managers, etc.) are not prohibited from betting on matches 
that do not involve their own team. Match fixing in football remains a 
major concern. In Turkey in 2011 more than 30 players and staff have been 
convicted of game fixing. In South Korea, more than 50 professional soccer 
players have been indicted and ten players have received lifetime bans. 
In Finland, two Zambian players were convicted and more than a dozen people 
are under investigation. Other investigations are continuing in China, 
El Salvador, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Thailand, Vietnam, 
and Zimbabwe.[6] In the United States and Canada, Major League Soccer and 
the Professional Referee Organization have a "Match Manipulation and Gambling 
Policy Statement" poster similar to Major League Baseball's Rule 21 posted 
in the locker rooms banning any betting on any match that features the 
MLS. The integrity of horse racing remains an ongoing concern since gambling 
is an integral part of this sport. Recent allegations of race fixing have 
centered around the recently formed betting exchanges which unlike traditional 
bookmakers allow punters to lay an outcome (that is, to bet against a particular 
runner). Most tracks prohibit jockeys from betting on races if they are 
riding during the day. Leading exchange Betfair has responded to the allegations 
by signing Memorandums of Understanding with the Jockey Club, The FA, the 
International Cricket Council, the Association of Tennis Professionals 
and other sporting authorities. These memoranda of understanding are evidence 
of the vast difference between British and American attitudes[citation 
needed] — as of 2008 it would be almost unthinkable for an American sports 
league to sign such an agreement with a bookmaker or betting exchange.[citation 
needed] By monitoring the pre-match betting markets it is possible to detect 
planned match fixing. It is also possible to detect on-going match manipulation 
by looking at the in-game betting markets. Several federations have employed 
services that provide such systems for detecting match manipulation.[7] 
In addition, several federations run integrity tours where players and 
officials participate in educational workshops on how match fixing work 
and how they are prevented.[8] Several federations run integrity tours 
where players and officials participate in educational workshops on how 
