Matsutarō Shōriki (正力 松太郎, Shōriki Matsutarō?, April 11, 1885 – October 
9, 1969) was a Japanese journalist and media mogul, also known as the father 
of Japanese professional baseball. Shōriki owned the Yomiuri Shimbun, one 
of Japan's major daily newspapers, and founded Japan's first commercial 
television station, Nippon Television Network Corporation. He was also 
elected to the House of Representatives, appointed to the House of Peers, 
and was one of the most successful judo masters ever, reaching the extremely 
rare rank of 10th Dan.[citation needed] Shōriki was born in Daimon, Toyama. 
He graduated from the University of Tokyo. Shōriki joined the Metropolitan 
Police, rising high in the ranks.[1] He was dismissed from the police after 
the Toranomon Incident of late 1923.[1] In 1924, with the help of a powerful 
investor,[1] he bought Yomiuri Shimbun. Shōriki's innovations included 
improved news coverage and a full-page radio program guide. The emphasis 
of the paper shifted to broad news coverage aimed at readers in the Tokyo 
area. By 1941 it had the largest circulation of any daily newspaper in 
the Tokyo area. Shōriki organized a Japanese baseball All-Star team in 
1934 that matched up against an American All-Star team. While prior Japanese 
all-star contingents had disbanded, Shōriki went pro with this group, which 
eventually became known as the Yomiuri Giants.[1] Shōriki survived an assassination 
attempt by right-wing nationalists for allowing foreigners (in this case, 
Americans) to play baseball in Jingu Stadium.[1] He received a 16-inch-long 
scar from a broadsword during the assassination attempt. Shōriki became 
Nippon Professional Baseball's (NPB) unofficial first commissioner in 1949. 
In 1950, Shōriki oversaw the realignment of the Japanese Baseball League 
into its present two-league structure and the establishment of the Japan 
Series. One goal Shōriki did not accomplish was a true world series. Shōriki 
was classified as a "Class A" war criminal after the Second World War, 
serving 21 months in prison.[1] However, he was released in 1947 after 
it was determined that the accusations against him were mostly of an “ideological 
and political nature”.[1] In January 1956, Shōriki became chairman of the 
newly created Japanese Atomic Energy Commission, and in May of that year 
was appointed head of the brand-new Science and Technology Agency, both 
under the cabinet of Ichirō Hatoyama with strong support behind the scenes 
from the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency.[2] In 2006, Tetsuo Arima, a 
professor specialising in media studies at Waseda University in Tokyo, 
published an article that claimed Shōriki acted as an agent under the codenames 
of "podam" and "pojacpot-1" for the CIA to establish a pro-US nationwide 
commercial television network (NTV) and to introduce nuclear power plants 
using U.S. technologies across Japan. Arima's accusations were based on 
the findings of de-classified documents stored in the NARA in Washington, 
DC.[3] Shōriki is thus also now known as "the father of nuclear power."[1] 
Shōriki died October 9, 1969, in Atami, Shizuoka. In 1959, Shōriki was 
the first inductee into the Japanese Baseball Hall of Fame. The Matsutaro 
Shoriki Award is given annually to the person who contributes the most 
to Japanese baseball. The position of Chair of the Department of Asia, 
Oceania, and Africa at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston is also named after 
