On June 13, 2012, Matt Cain of the San Francisco Giants pitched the 22nd 
perfect game (no opposing batters reach first base) in Major League Baseball 
(MLB) history and the first in Giants' franchise history. Pitching against 
the Houston Astros at AT&T Park in San Francisco, California,[1] Cain retired 
all 27 batters that he faced and tallied 14 strikeouts,[2] tied for the 
most strikeouts in a perfect game with Sandy Koufax of the Los Angeles 
Dodgers in 1965. Following Philip Humber's perfect game earlier in 2012, 
Cain's performance marked just the third season in MLB history in which 
multiple perfect games were thrown. In June 1880, Lee Richmond and John 
Montgomery Ward both threw perfect games; in May 2010 Dallas Braden and 
Roy Halladay both accomplished the feat.[3] Two notable defensive plays 
by Cain's teammates kept the perfect game intact. Melky Cabrera made a 
running catch at the wall in left field in the top of the sixth inning, 
while Gregor Blanco made a diving catch in right-center field to start 
the top of the seventh.[4] It was the first Giants no-hitter since left-hander 
Jonathan Sanchez threw one on July 10, 2009, against the San Diego Padres 
at AT&T Park. The Astros were no-hit for the fifth time in franchise history, 
and the first time since Carlos Zambrano threw a no-hitter for the Chicago 
Cubs on September 14, 2008 at Miller Park (Milwaukee) (moved from Minute 
Maid Park because of Hurricane Ike). It was the second time the Astros 
were no-hit by the Giants; Juan Marichal did it on June 15, 1963.[5] It 
was also the first time in Astros history that no one reached base safely. 
Cain surpassed his previous personal best of 12 strikeouts in a single 
game, which he set in 2006. Cain's 125 pitches were the most thrown in 
a Major League perfect game.[6] The Giants recorded 10 runs, the most by 
any team in a perfect game. By scoring a run in the 5th inning, Cain became 
the only pitcher to have scored a run in his perfect game. The final out 
was made by Astros pinch-hitter Jason Castro. Castro chopped a 1-2 pitch 
to third base where it was fielded deep behind the bag by third baseman 
Joaquin Arias. Arias successfully made the long throw across the diamond 
to first baseman Brandon Belt, who then tucked the ball in his back pocket 
before joining his teammates on the mound in celebration.[7] Cain details: 
Groundouts: 6; Flyouts: 7; Pitches: 125 (86 strikes, 39 balls) Umpires: 
HP: Ted Barrett. 1B: Mike Muchlinski. 2B: Angel Campos. 3B: Brian Runge. 
Weather: 59 degrees, clear. Wind: 13 mph, Out to CF Time: 2:36 Attendance: 
42,298 [8] Cain's cleats, hat, uniform, dirt taken from the pitcher's mound, 
and a ball from the game will be included in an exhibit in the National 
Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum. All four umpires signed a game ball for 
Cain, and Belt gave Cain the ball used to record the final out.[6] According 
to Bill James' game score statistic, Cain's perfect game tied Sandy Koufax's 
perfect game for the most dominant modern-era perfect game.[9] Italics denotes post-season perfect game 
