Matthew Edward "Matt" Vasgersian (born September 28, 1967) is an American 
sportscaster and television host. Vasgersian is currently a play-by-play 
announcer for Fox Sports' coverage of Major League Baseball, as well as 
a studio host for the MLB Network. In the past he has served as an announcer 
for Fox Sports' National Football League coverage and NBC Sports' coverage 
of the Olympic Games.[1] He formerly called play-by-play for the Milwaukee 
Brewers and the San Diego Padres.[1] Vasgersian started his media career 
as a child actor. A member of the Screen Actors Guild at age seven, he 
appeared in an episode of The Streets of San Francisco and the movie The 
Candidate starring Robert Redford, and filmed mostly in Berkeley, California. 
Born in Oakland, California and raised in Moraga, California he is of Armenian 
descent, Vasgersian graduated from Campolindo High School in Moraga and 
the University of Southern California in Los Angeles.[1] While a student 
at USC, he appeared on The New Dating Game, winning a trip to Telluride, 
Colorado. Vasgersian has worked in baseball since 1991, starting with a 
six-year stint in the Minor Leagues as a play-by-play announcer. He began 
his career as a sportscaster with the Chicago Cubs Rookie league affiliate 
in Huntington, West Virginia on radio station WKEE-AM 800 and was the voice 
of the High Desert Mavericks (Seattle Mariners affiliate) on radio station 
KAPL. He moved up the minor league baseball ranks over the next several 
years, working for various clubs in a number of different organizations, 
including the Syracuse Chiefs in 1995, and ending with the AAA Tucson Toros 
in 1996.[2] Vasgersian was 29 years old when he became the play-by-play 
voice for the Milwaukee Brewers in 1997, where he stayed for five years 
before filling the same role for the San Diego Padres from 2002 to 2008.[1][2] 
Vasgersian was with the Padres for seven seasons when it was announced 
he would be joining MLB Network.[1] On November 1, 2008, during a broadcast 
of the San Diego CIF High School Football Game of the Week, Channel 4 announced 
that Vasgersian would not be returning as a Padres announcer for the 2009 
season, having chosen to pursue other opportunities. Later that week, it 
was reported that Vasgersian had signed a deal with MLB Network to become 
the network's first studio host.[3] Vasgersian joined Fox Sports in 2006. 
From 2006-2008, Vasgersian worked on Fox NFL telecasts, teaming with J.C. 
Pearson on the network's #6 broadcast team. In previous years, he had done 
select games for the network. Vasgersian's Fox football resume included 
calling BCS games for the network, working the Orange Bowl in 2007 and 
the Fiesta Bowl 2008 and 2009. Starting in 2007, he also worked on Fox 
MLB telecasts of the Game of the Week, teaming with a variety of analysts 
on the network's #3 broadcast crew. In 2012, he began hosting the MLB pregame 
show, though he still occasionally called games on a fill-in basis. In 
2014, he was moved back to the broadcast booth, working with John Smoltz 
on one of the network's #2 broadcast teams (a role the pair splits with 
Thom Brennaman and Eric Karros).[4] In this role, he and Smoltz worked 
on postseason telecasts during the Division Series. In 2016, John Smoltz 
moved up the lead broadcast team and in the World Series Vasgersian's new 
partner was Buck Martinez. Vasgersian has been a studio host at MLB Network 
since its debut on January 1, 2009, appearing regularly in-studio and on-site 
at the All-Star Game and World Series on MLB Tonight, the network's Emmy 
Award-winning live nightly studio show, as well as "Quick Pitch," "The 
Rundown," the offseason studio show "Hot Stove," MLB Network’s Spring Training 
series 30 Clubs in 30 Days, and MLB Network's first-ever game show Baseball 
IQ. Throughout the MLB regular season, Vasgersian calls play-by-play for 
MLB Network’s Thursday Night Baseball game package.[1] He called Game 2 
of the 2012 ALDS between the Detroit Tigers and the Oakland Athletics on 
October 7. He and Jim Kaat called Game 3 of the 2013 American League Division 
Series, also between the Detroit Tigers and the Oakland Athletics on October 
7 as well. From 2012-2014, when he hosted Fox's MLB pregame, Vasgersian 
did not host programming on MLB Network during the All-Star Game and the 
postseason. Vasgersian became a co-host, with Lauren Shehadi and Mark DeRosa, 
of MLB Network's show MLB Central, which debuted on April 6, 2015. Vasgersian 
also did commentary for MLB Network's coverage of the All-Star Game in 
2015. Vasgersian first gained national exposure doing play-by-play for 
the XFL football league in 2001. Vasgersian's time with the network was 
tense, and he was demoted and replaced by Jim Ross after the inaugural 
telecast after quipping on-air "that was uncomfortable" after a suggestive 
shot of the cheerleaders; he later returned to the first team broadcast 
halfway through the season. He has hosted several TV shows, including the 
game show Sports Geniuses (2000), Game Show Network's World Series of Blackjack 
(2004), and Celebrity Blackjack (2004), the National Heads-Up Poker Championship 
on NBC and the first season grand final of Poker Superstars Invitational 
Tournament. He has also emceed various sports specials and other programs, 
such as the International World Championships of Rock Paper Scissors (2004).[5] 
He also called USC Trojans men's basketball for FSN West from 2004-06. 
Vasgersian has also worked on an Ultimate Fighting Championship broadcast, 
filling in for Mike Goldberg, the usual announcer. Goldberg was working 
on Fox Sports Net's college football telecast on the night of UFC 56, so 
Vasgersian provided play-by-play alongside regular color commentator Joe 
Rogan. Vasgersian is the commentator in every installment of MLB: The Show 
since its debut in 2006 with Eric Karros, Steve Lyons and formerly Dave 
Campbell and Rex Hudler. In addition to his work on MLB: The Show, Vasgersian 
was the "host" for several PS1 Sony sports titles in the late 1990s and 
early 2000s, specifically for 989 Studios sports games.[1] Vasgersian has 
contributed to NBC Sports' coverage of several Olympic Games, calling baseball 
and softball in the 2004 Summer Games, ski jumping in the 2006 and 2010 
Winter Games, and freestyle skiing in the 2014 Winter Games. He also hosted 
the 2008 Summer Games coverage on USA Network.[6] Vasgersian is also a 
regular featured commentator on the Dave & Carole morning show on WKLH 
96.5 FM in Milwaukee [1]. His affiliation with the Dave and Carole Morning 
Show led him to a side career in music as he performed regularly as a lead 
vocalist with kb'smidlifecrisis, a rock band fronted by Dave and Carole 
sidekick Kevin "KB' Brandt. Vasgersian was the host of the MLB on Fox pregame 
show from 2012 to 2014, before he was replaced by Kevin Burkhardt after 
the 2013 season. Matt is also a recurring satirical commentator for Hamish 
and Andy's Gap Year. As a native of the East Bay Area in Northern California 
he grew up an avid fan of the Oakland Athletics (the A's). Along with John 
Smoltz, Vasgersian works for MLB International replacing Gary Thorne and 
Rick Sutcliffe starting with the 2015 MLB All-Star Game and will cover 
the National League Championship Series in odd-numbered years, the American 
League Championship Series in even-numbered years and the World Series 
