Mattice-Val Côté is an incorporated township in Cochrane District in Northeastern 
Ontario, Canada.[1] It is located approximately 30 kilometres (19 mi) east 
of Hearst and 70 kilometres (43 mi) west of Kapuskasing on Ontario Highway 
11. The township was incorporated on April 18, 1975, as the United Townships 
of Eilber and Devitt, with Paul Zorzetto as first reeve.[3] Its two primary 
population centres are Mattice and Val-Côté. Mattice is located on the 
Missinaibi River, a historic fur-trading route that flows into the Moose 
River, then into James Bay. The river is a popular destination for canoers, 
known for its historical significance. Mattice was founded in the 1910s, 
fueled by the arrival of the Canadian Transcontinental Railway and free 
land given away by the government. Most residents came from the province 
of Quebec. The history of Mattice-Val-Côté and its residents is detailed 
in the two volume book Si Missinaïbi m'était conté. Volume I tells the 
story of the original settlers in the early 1920s. Volume II tells the 
story of their descendants.[4] A majority of residents work in nearby Hearst 
and Opasatika in the lumber industry. Opasatika's mill is now shut down. 
Other residents work in the service industry. A group of local women entrepreneurs 
have banded together to open a clothing company which manufactures polar 
fleece clothing, ideal for the cold winter conditions of the area. The 
Municipality of Mattice-Val-Côté has set up a rest and camp area on the 
right bank of the Missinaibi River so that canoe enthusiasts can sleep, 
shower, rest and visit the sites. The municipality has also erected a sculpture 
depicting a voyageur portaging along the river. Mattice is home to a historical 
First Nations cemetery, located two kilometers south of town. It had been 
abandoned in the 1940s but has now been cleaned up and can be accessed 
by road or by canoe on the Missinaibi River. A rock museum opened in Val-Côté 
in 2002. The Carnaval Missinaïbi (winter carnival) is held over the course 
of two weeks in the end of February/beginning of March every winter. Activities 
include snowmobile rallies, music concerts, and kids activities. The Carnaval 
is best known in the area for its generous prizes (vehicles and money) 
given away in the Carnival draw. The first "journées médiévales" (Medieval 
Days) took place in the summer of 2006, inspired by a similar activity 
in a small Quebec town. The festival takes place at the baseball field 
of Mattice on the last weekend of August. This festival features the naming 
of a king and queen for the day, a competition to become a knight, a lot 
of family activities, a variety of different expositions and a meal without 
utensils. Canadian Rivers Day has been celebrated for four years with organized 
trips on the Missinaibi River, educational sessions and family activities. 
Residents and visitors enjoy outdoor sports such as hunting, fishing, snowmobiling, 
camping, swimming and canoeing. It is a popular spot for anglers and hunters. 
The local grade school is called École catholique St-François-Xavier where 
students go from kindergarten to grade 8. High school students are bussed 
to École Secondaire catholique Hearst. The majority of Mattice-Val-Côté 
residents are French speaking. Most of the residents are also Caucasian, 
born in Canada for many generations, but different cultures can also be 
found such as Portuguese, First Nations, Finnish, Dutch and even Spanish. 
