Mayagüez (Spanish pronunciation: [maʝaˈɣwes]) is the eighth-largest[3] 
municipality of Puerto Rico. Originally founded as "Nuestra Señora de la 
Candelaria" it is also known as "La Sultana del Oeste" (The Sultaness of 
the West), "Ciudad de las Aguas Puras" (City of Pure Waters), or "Ciudad 
del Mangó" (City of the Mango). On April 6, 1894, the Spanish crown gave 
it the formal title of "Excelente Ciudad de Mayagüez" (Excellent City of 
Mayaquez).[4][5] Mayagüez is located in the center of the western coast 
on the island of Puerto Rico. It is both a principal city of the Mayagüez 
Metropolitan Statistical Area and the Mayagüez–San Germán–Cabo Rojo Combined 
Statistical Area. The Mayagüez Metro Area (and part of Añasco) lies today 
on two former Taíno Cacicazgos (chiefdoms): Yaguex and Yagüeca, a region 
noted for its record of colonial resistance (i.e., Urayoán and Legend of 
Diego Salcedo). The Tainos constituted the majority of the island's inhabitants 
at the time of contact with Europeans in 1493 and called it Borikén or 
Borinquen, which means: "the great land of the valiant and noble Lord" 
or "land of the great lords." Today, this appellation and its variations 
continue to designate the Island of Puerto Rico and its people. These Taínos 
came from South American branches of Arawakan speakers, more specifically 
from Venezuela, and lived in small villages, organized their society in 
clans and named their chiefs Cacique. They were agriculturalists who domesticated 
crops as pineapples, cassava, and sweet potatoes supplemented by fish and 
seafood.[citation needed] Mayagüez was officially founded on September 
18, 1760 by a group led by brothers Faustino and Lorenzo Martínez de Matos, 
Juan de Silva and Juan de Aponte, at a hill located about one kilometer 
inland from Mayagüez Bay and the outlet of the Yagüez River. The Spanish 
Crown granted the founders the right to self-government in 1763, formally 
separating the town from the larger Partido de San Germán. Originally the 
settlement was named Nuestra Señora de la Candelaria de Mayagüez (Our Lady 
of Candelaria of Mayagüez) to evoke an apparition of the Virgin Mary on 
the island of Tenerife, one of the Canary Islands. Most of the town's settlers, 
including its founders, originally migrated from the archipelago, whose 
patron saint is the Virgin of Candelaria. On May 7, 1836, the settlement 
was elevated to the royal status of villa, and Rafael Mangual was named 
its first mayor. At the time, the villa's principal economic activity was 
agriculture. The famous patriot, educator, sociologist, philosopher, essayist, 
and novelist Eugenio María de Hostos was born in Mayagüez in 1839. On July 
10, 1877 the villa formally received its city charter from the Royal Crown 
of Spain. The city's main Roman Catholic church, "Our Lady of the Candelaria" 
(plot consecrated on August 21, 1760, first masonry building erected in 
1780, current church originally built in 1836) was rebuilt in 1922. The 
original redesign by architect Luis Perocier sought to restore the building 
to its original splendor. Not only had the 1918 Puerto Rico earthquake 
destroyed the temple's ceiling, but a lightning bolt also struck and tore 
down a wedge-shaped corner of one of its two bell towers. However, lack 
of proper funding and the extent of the damage of the original structure 
forced the actual rebuilding of the to be scaled-down considerably. In 
1911, the College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts was founded in Mayagüez. 
Today it is known as the University of Puerto Rico at Mayagüez (UPRM) — 
the Caribbean's leading engineering institution. Between 1962 and 1998 
Mayagüez was a major tuna canning and processing center. At one time, 80% 
of all tuna products consumed in the United States were packed in Mayagüez 
(the biggest employer, StarKist, had 11,000 employees working three daily 
shifts in the local plant's heyday). Mayagüez was also a major textile 
industry hub; until very recently, almost a quarter of all drill uniforms 
used by the United States Army were sewn in the city. Today, Mayagüez is 
the fifth-largest city and is considered one of the most important cities 
in the island. The city itself is centered around the impressive Spanish-style 
Plaza Colón, a tribute to Christopher Columbus, whose stature stands in 
the middle of the square, surrounded by 16 bronze statues. In addition, 
Mayagüez has become a major college town with the establishment of the 
UPRM, the now closed Eugenio María de Hostos Law School and the Pontifical 
Catholic University of Puerto Rico. Mayagüez is located near the geographical 
center of the west coast of Puerto Rico about two hours by automobile from 
San Juan. Its land area is 77.6 square miles (201.06 km2).[6] The city's 
terrain includes; coast plains, river valleys, marshland, hills and mountains. 
Of its multiple rivers and streams, the two most important are the Río 
Yagüez, which flows from the Central Mountain Range through downtown until 
it empties into the Mona Passage; and the Río Guanajibo, which flows through 
several neighborhoods in the southern portion of the municipality until 
it empties in the Mona Passage as well. Mayagüez has a tropical monsoon 
climate (Köppen climate classification Am). The city has the most extreme 
weather of the island. The high frequency of severe storms in the summer 
can produce strong winds, floods, waterspouts, and sometimes hail and even 
tornadoes. The average annual temperature is 75 °F (24 °C). Winter is usually 
quite dry and cool, with temperatures between 82 °F (28 °C) and 55 °F (13 °C). 
Summer is usually very hot and humid, with temperatures reaching 95 °F 
(35 °C), with heat index of up to 115 °F. From May to October, most evenings 
experience severe thunderstorms, due to heat, humidity and the topography 
of the area. The municipio has an estimated population of just over 100,000 
spread over 21 wards (barrios) including Mayagüez Pueblo (The downtown 
area and the administrative center of the city). One of the wards is Isla 
de Mona e Islote Monito, which consists of the offshore islands of Mona 
Island and Monito Island.[8] This is the largest ward by land area, and 
at the same time the only one without any permanent population. Also, uninhabited 
Desecheo Island belongs to the municipality, as part of Sabanetas barrio. 
Mayagüez Pueblo is further subdivided into these wards: The sectors that 
comprises Mayagüez City are: Other notable neighborhoods or sectors: According 
to 2009 U.S. Census Bureau estimates, there are 92,156 people (down from 
98,434 in 2000) in 38,469 housing units residing in Mayagüez. The population 
density was 1,187 inhabitants per square mile (458/km2).[16][17] The city 
has a considerable "college population" adding approximately 10,000 people 
to the year round population of Mayagüez. People of Hispanic or Latino 
origin, who may be of any race, composed 98.9% of the population. Of the 
31,877 households in 2007 in Mayagüez, 38.6% were married couples living 
together, 22.3% had a female householder with no husband present, and 33.7% 
were non-families. 33.3% had children under the age of 18 living in them. 
Of all households 27.8% are made up of individuals and 9.8% had someone 
living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size 
was 2.75 and the average family size was 3.41. In Mayagüez, the population 
was spread out with 26.9% under the age of 18, 10.3% from 18 to 24, 30.8% 
from 25 to 44, 20.6% from 45 to 64, and 11.5% who are 65 years of age or 
older. The median age was 33 years. Mayagüez has more women, with 88.4 
males for every 100 females. Although the city has seen its share of natural 
disasters, it faced a major economic downturn due to the closure of its 
textile factories and tuna industry, which were the principal industries 
of the city for the greater part of the 20th century. Over 11,000 permanent 
jobs in these two industries were lost in the city during the 1990s, and 
because of this, Mayagüez became the jurisdiction of the United States 
with the second largest number of industrial job losses during the time 
period, second only to Flint, Michigan. Once the third city in population 
and importance in Puerto Rico, population numbers for it have been relatively 
stagnant, and it has actually lost population in recent years. However, 
due to ancillary infrastructure developments and a renewed effort to repopulate 
the city's Guanajibo Industrial Park[citation needed], the local economy 
has seen a slow turn for the better. In 2005 Winston-Salem Industries for 
The Blind was the first industry to move into the park in many years. In 
July 2007 Honeywell opened a customer support service center for its aerospace 
and information technology divisions in the city. Other industries, such 
as Lockheed, are expected to follow suit in 2009. Mayagüez's contributions 
to Puerto Rican gastronomy have been many, and a few of these are known 
outside Puerto Rico. Besides being host to one of the largest concentrations 
of mango (spelled locally as "mangó") trees in the island, the city has 
been a host to various food enterprises whose products are popular in Puerto 
Rico (and some elsewhere): A defunct cola bottling operation in town produced 
"Vita Cola", a popular soft drink in Puerto Rico between the late 1940s 
and early 1960s. Mayagüez was a major rum producing city in Puerto Rico 
between the 1930s and 1970s[citation needed]. Several brands were produced 
by the city's three rum distillers. The most successful rum producing operation 
at the time was that of "José González Clemente y Co.", the bottlers of 
"Ron Superior Puerto Rico", an award-winning dark rum that was bottled 
between 1909 and the late 1970s. Mayagüez hosted the 2010 Central American 
and Caribbean Games for which the local and commonwealth governments have 
provided an investment of $250 million[20] for, among other things, building 
two new stadiums (the first a re-built Isidoro García Baseball Stadium 
the second next to it a track and field and soccer stadium.[21] Mayagüez 
also hosted the 2011 Caribbean Series.[22] Mayagüez's National Superior 
Basketball League (BSN) professional basketball team, the Indios de Mayagüez, 
are named in honor of the city's Indian heritage. Its baseball winter league 
team (LBPPR), the Indios de Mayagüez, honor both[citation needed] their 
Indian heritage and the home town's Cervecería India brewery. The professional 
volleyball team Indias de Mayagüez from Liga de Voleibol Superior Femenino, 
plays locally at local Palacio de Recreación y Deportes. The "Justas" or 
Inter University Games of the Liga Atlética Interuniversitaria de Puerto 
Rico were celebrated in Mayagüez in 2010 in preparation for the Central 
American and Caribbean Games.[23] Plaza Colón with City Hall on background, 
Christmas 2006 Nuestra Señora de la Candelaria Cathedral, Christmas 2006 
As one of Puerto Rico's 78 municipalities, Mayagüez's government has two 
branches, the executive and the legislative. Those citizens eligible to 
vote, directly elect a mayor and the municipal assembly for four-year terms. 
The municipal government is housed in Mayagüez City Hall or Casa Alcaldia, 
which faces the south-side of the Plaza de Colon. The executive branch 
is headed by a popularly elected mayor. The office is currently held by 
José Guillermo Rodríguez. In addition to running the city's day-to-day 
operations and supervising associated departments, the mayor is also responsible 
for appointing a secretary-auditor and a treasurer. Mayagüez's Municipal 
Assembly is made up of sixteen elected officials, as defined in the Puerto 
Rico Law of Autonomous Municipalities of 1991. The city belongs to the 
Puerto Rico Senatorial district IV, which is represented by two Senators. 
In 2012, María Teresa González and Gilberto Rodríguez were elected as District 
Senators.[25] Law enforcement in Mayagüez is the joint responsibility of 
the Mayagüez Municipal Police Department and the Puerto Rico Police Department. 
The first fire fighters corps in the city was created in 1876.[26] The 
wide cross represents Christianity brought to the New World by Christopher 
Columbus,[27] who signed his documents with the phrase and the motto Christ 
Ferens, which means: "He who has Christ." The blue and white waves between 
the third and fourth quarters recall the coat of arms granted to Columbus 
by kings Ferdinand and Isabella. The waves represent the ocean (and particularly 
Mona Passage) through which he sailed to bring the gospel to these new 
lands. The blue and white waves symbolize the Yagüez River and evokes the 
nickname City of Pure Waters. The red and white flames on the flag symbolize 
the traditional bonfires of Day of Our Lady of Candelaria ("Día de La Candelaria"), 
ignited in honor of the city's patron saint(a tradition started for Spanish 
settlers from the Canary Islands).[27] The flag was officially adopted 
with the signing of City Ordinance 38, signed December 3, 1996.[27] According 
to the Puerto Rican historian Federico Cedó Alzamora, the original version 
of the coat of arms of Mayagüez was given to the city 19 December 1894 
by the Queen Regent of Spain Maria Christina of Austria.[26] The upper 
half of the coat of arms shows the columbine coat of arms recalls and commemorates 
the discovery of the Island of Borinquén (Puerto Rico) by Columbus in his 
second trip to the New World in 1493. The lower half of the coat of arms 
shows a stylized dissembarkment of Columbus on Puerto Rico. The explorer's 
crew disembarked at the western coast of the island,[26] where several 
rivers spill their waters in the Mona Passage, among them the Yagüez, from 
which the name of Mayagüez is derived. The present version was reinterpreted 
by heraldist Roberto Biascochea Lota. The city's anthem was written by 
pianist and former music teacher Luciano Quiñones,[28] a long-time resident 
and now "adopted son" of the city. Until this song's adoption, the plena 
"A Mayagüez", written by César Concepción, was used by many as an unofficial 
city song. Quiñones' composition was the winner of a contest sponsored 
by the city's municipality in 2003.[29] Mayor José Guillermo Rodríguez 
and the Municipal Legislature entrusted the Advisory Board of Art and Culture 
of Mayagüez to hold a contest to select an anthem for the city.[29] The 
selected composition was a danza by Mr Luciano Quiñones, who has a bachelor's 
degree in music, a piano professor the Escuela Libre de Música de Mayagüez, 
he is a music composer already winning nineteen awards in competitions 
held by the Institute of Puerto Rican culture, and the Circulo de Recreo 
de San Germán.[29] The lyrics alludes to the emblematic symbols of Mayagüez; 
its nicknames, to its Patron Saint, its taste of mango, to its sunsets 
in the bay, to the Taíno, to Eugenio María de Hostos, their role as cultural 
cradle, the sympathy of the ladies and the dream of its valleys and its 
mountains.[29] The anthem was presented to the people in a memorable concert 
held in commemoration of the 239 anniversary of the founding of the city 
on the night of September 18, 1999, interpreted by tenor, Mayagüez adopted 
son, Rafael José Díaz, Mayagüezana lyric soprano, Hilda Ramos, accompanied 
by the Puerto Rico Symphony Orchestra conducted by its Associate Director, 
Mayagüezana Roselyn Pabón, in the same place where such Symphony Orchestra 
offered his first concert forty years earlier: the Plaza Colón.[29] This 
danza was recognized as the official anthem of Mayagüez through the Municipal 
Ordinance number 58, series 1999-2000, adopted on 20 December 1999 by the 
City Council, which was signed by the Mayor, Honorable José Guillermo Rodríguez 
on December 24, 1999.[29] MIDI and recorded versions of the anthem can 
be listened to here.[30] The Residential Center for Educative Opportunities 
of Mayagüez, (CROEM) is one of only two public boarding schools in Puerto 
Rico. The largest public high school in town is Eugenio María de Hostos 
High School. The other public high school in Mayaguez is Dr. Pedro Perea 
Fajardo Vocational High School. The former José De Diego High School was 
finally closed in 2009. The non-profit Southwestern Educational Society, 
(S.E.S.O.) maintains the Southwestern Community School, an English language 
college preparatory school. Other private schools include: Colegio San 
Benito, (CSB) (Saint Benedict College), the "Academia de la Inmaculada 
Concepción" (Academy of the Immaculate Conception), Colegio Episcopal San 
Andrés", (San Andres Episcopal College), Colegio Presbiteriano Pablo Casasús, 
Colegio De La Milagrosa (College of Our Lady of Miracles),the Academia 
Adventista del Oeste (Western Adventist Academy) and Academia Adventista 
de Bella Vista, (Bella Vista Adventist Academy).Colegio Cristiano Oscar 
Correa Agosto (la casa del joven). Today, Mayagüez has become a major college 
town, due in part to various higher learning institutions in the city. 
There are also a number of junior colleges in the city. The dominant form 
of transport in Puerto Rico is the automobile. Mayagüez, in fact, is served 
by two highways linking it to other parts of the island. Puerto Rico Highway 
2 existing as an arterial road is a primary route between Ponce to the 
south-east and Aguadilla and Arecibo to the north and north-east respectively. 
PR-2 is currently undergoing a conversion to a freeway between Ponce and 
Mayagüez. Another important route in Mayagüez is PR-102. It begins at an 
intersection with PR-2, about 2 miles north of Mayagüez Pueblo at the Mar 
y Sol development and runs along Mayagüez's coastal industrial areas to 
Joyuda, where it then turns east and terminates in Sabana Grande. The portion 
of the highway adjacent to the Estadio Isidoro Garcia was upgraded from 
a two-lane road into an urban boulevard in anticipation of the 2010 Centro-American 
and Caribbean Games celebrated in Mayagüez. In addition to this upgrade, 
an elevated by-pass was constructed from the coastal park site over the 
Yagüez River ending at the Concordia Housing Project. Transportation in 
Mayagüez is limited to a trolley service, various private taxi companies 
and an occasional daytime syndicated público service named "Mayagüez Urbano" 
(Urban Mayagüez) that provide transportation between the main points of 
the city at a cost of $2.00 per route. Passenger transportation between 
Mayagüez and San Juan is operated by the Linea Sultana, another syndicated 
service.[31] The city operates three trolleys, free of charge, which run 
as shuttles between the downtown area and the Palacio de Recreación y Deportes.[32] 
The University of Puerto Rico at Mayagüez also runs an internal network 
of trolleys to carry its students inside campus and between UPRM, Mayagüez 
Terrace development and Palacio de Recreación y Deportes,[33] linking here 
with the city's trolley service. There are some proposals to expand the 
municipal trolley service to serve inside the UPRM.[34] For the 2010 Central 
American and Caribbean Games the Puerto Rico's Department of Transportation 
and Public Works released an express public bus system operated with Autoridad 
Metropolitana de Autobuses (San Juan's Metropolitan Bus Authority) buses 
specially assigned to serve the city of Mayagüez. During the Mayagüez 2010 
Games, this bus network was carrying passengers in a corridor along Highway 
2 and some main roads. The UPRM trolleybus network was integrated into 
this service too. Although suspended after the Mayagüez 2010 Games ended, 
the system is expected to be re-established shortly.[35] The Port of Mayagüez 
is the third busiest port on Puerto Rico.[36] It is located northwest of 
the central business district along Puerto Rico routes 64, 341, and 3341, 
and stretches for 3.8 miles (6.1 km) along the coast. Its main canal is 
0.4 miles (0.64 km) wide and its depth ranges from 47 to 120 feet (14 to 
37 m), the water's depth along the piers ranges between 28 and 29 feet 
(8.5 and 8.8 m). The port is protected from rough seas by reefs which run 
along its northern and western sections.[37] Starting in March 16, 2011 
a new ferry service to Dominican Republic will be launched by America Cruise 
Ferries.[38] Mayagüez's airport, Eugenio María de Hostos Airport, also 
known as El Mani Airport, has had regular airline services for more than 
thirty years.[39] It is located 4 miles north of the central business district 
in the Sabanetas Barrio. Before being inaugurated in 1955, the airport 
served as a military base. In the 1970s it had domestic service from Prinair, 
then from American Eagle and Eastern Air Lines's regional carrier Eastern 
Metro Express in the 1980s. After Eastern went bankrupt in 1991, American 
Eagle remained the only airline serving the airport until it ended service 
to the city on April 30, 2005, due to poor loads.[40] For a while, Fina 
Air served flights to the Dominican Republic before the airline went bankrupt. 
Cape Air currently serves the airport with 5 daily flights to San Juan 
during the high season and three daily flights during the low season.[41] 
Mayagüez serves as a host city for two foreign consulates with business 
