McCovey Cove is the unofficial name of a section of San Francisco Bay beyond 
the right field wall of AT&T Park, home of the San Francisco Giants, named 
after famed Giants first baseman Willie McCovey. The proper name for the 
cove is China Basin, which is the mouth of Mission Creek as it meets the 
bay. The cove is bounded along the north by AT&T Park, with a ferry landing 
and a breakwater at the northeast end. The southern shore is lined by China 
Basin Park and McCovey Point. To the east, it opens up to San Francisco 
Bay, while the west end of the cove is bounded by the Lefty O'Doul Bridge, 
named after San Francisco ballplayer and manager Lefty O'Doul. The name 
was coined thanks to two sportswriters. Mark Purdy of the San Jose Mercury 
News wrote an article suggesting naming the body of water after McCovey, 
though his original suggestions were 'McCovey Channel,' 'McCovey Stream' 
or 'McCovey Run.' Purdy then noted the more 'lyrical' name of 'McCovey 
Cove' was suggested by his colleague Leonard Koppett, a writer for the 
Oakland Tribune.[1] The name did not take long to become very popular, 
although the moniker has never become official. On game days, fans take 
to the water of McCovey Cove in boats and even in kayaks, often with fishing 
nets in the hope of collecting a home run ball. This echoes what used to 
happen during McCovey's playing days. Before Candlestick Park's upper deck 
was extended, the area behind right field was occupied by three small bleacher 
sections and a lot of open space. Kids in those bleachers would gather 
behind the right field fence when "Stretch" would come to the plate. There 
may also be a link to the fact that Willie McCovey was one of only a few 
that hit home runs over the scoreboard and into a public swimming pool 
at Montreal's Jarry Park (Parc Jarry), the Expos' home from 1969 to 1976. 
The fact that balls can be hit into a water basin over the right field 
wall in San Francisco is somewhat of a tribute/salute to Willie McCovey's 
legend when he visited Montreal. Although there have been shark sightings 
in the bay, there have been no reported shark sightings in the cove. Just 
beyond the wall is a public waterfront promenade, where fans can watch 
the game through the wall's archways, free of charge, albeit with a somewhat 
obstructed view. Across the cove from the ballpark is McCovey Point and 
China Basin Park, featuring a statue of McCovey at the mouth of the Cove. 
At his feet are small plaques commemorating the winners of the Willie Mac 
Award, named in McCovey's honor. Along the southern shore of the cove, 
between McCovey Point and the O'Doul Bridge, is a walkway featuring plaques 
showing the Opening Day Roster of every Giants team from 1958 through 1999. 
Just south of the statue of Willie McCovey is Barry Bonds Junior Giants 
Field, a t-ball sized baseball diamond.[2] "Splash hits" are recorded only 
when Giants players hit home runs that land in McCovey Cove on the fly. 
These hits are tallied on an electronic counter on the right field wall. 
As of August 21, 2016, 71 "splash hits" have been hit into the Bay by Giants 
players since the park opened; 35 of those were by Barry Bonds.[3] The 
only Giants other than Bonds to have reached the Cove more than once are 
Pablo Sandoval, with seven "splash hits", Brandon Belt, with five, and 
six players with two each: Felipe Crespo, Michael Tucker, Ryan Klesko, 
Aubrey Huff, Andrés Torres and Brandon Crawford. Nine other Giants' players 
have accomplished the feat just once. Carlos Beltrán's "Splash Hit" on 
September 14, 2011, marked his 300th career home run. Klesko is currently 
the only player to have splash hits as both a Giant and as an opposing 
player through the 2012 season. Tyler Colvin's "splash hit" on May 12, 
2014, was also his first hit for the Giants and came off his first at bat 
at AT&T Park since joining the team.[4] When AT&T Park hosted the 2007 
Home Run Derby, McCovey Cove was heavily featured in promotional materials, 
and the namesake slugger presented each participant with special bats before 
the competition. However, the difficulty of hitting McCovey Cove with a 
home run was shown, as none of the eight sluggers competing were able to 
hit water, and all four left-handed batters (who are more likely to hit 
home runs to right field, and thus, to the Cove) were eliminated in the 
first round of the contest. The only player to hit water was Prince Fielder 
of the Milwaukee Brewers, who hit one into-the-water foul.[5] Fielder would 
eventually hit McCovey Cove with a fair ball on July 20, 2008, as the 17th 
visiting player to hit a home run into the Cove. No right-handed hitter 
has ever hit an opposite field home run into McCovey Cove, though Giants 
catcher Buster Posey has come close several times. 33 non-Giants players 
have hit the cove 42 times. Of visiting players who have hit the cove, 
Carlos Delgado, Carlos González and Adam LaRoche have performed the feat 
the most, doing it three times each. Current Major League baseball player 
Curtis Granderson and former Major League baseball players Luis Gonzalez 
and Cliff Floyd are the only other visiting players to do so twice. Rick 
Ankiel hit the water on the fly in the 11th inning of Game 2 of the 2010 
National League Division Series on October 8, 2010; his run would go on 
to be the winning run for the Atlanta Braves (this was only the 2nd home 
run ball hit into McCovey Cove in a postseason game at the time, the first 
being by Barry Bonds on October 12, 2002, in the National League Championship 
Series). David Ortiz, Mitch Moreland, and Adam Dunn are the only three 
American League players to hit the cove. Bryce Harper hit the water on 
the fly in the 7th inning of Game 4 of the 2014 National League Division 
Series on October 7, 2014 to tie the game. Kevin Correia is the only pitcher 
to have given up a splash hit both as a Giant and as a visiting pitcher 
(while pitching for the Los Angeles Dodgers in 2014). On May 12, 2014, 
players from opposite teams hit home runs into McCovey Cove in the same 
game for the first time.[6] Coordinates: 37°46′38″N 122°23′17″W﻿ / ﻿37.77722°N 
