McKechnie Field is a baseball field located in Bradenton, Florida. It is 
the spring training home of the Pittsburgh Pirates and is named for Bradenton 
resident and baseball great, Bill McKechnie, who led the Pirates in 1925 
and the Cincinnati Reds in 1940 to World Series titles. He was also a coach 
of the Cleveland Indians in 1948. Several notable members of the Baseball 
Hall of Fame such as, Roberto Clemente, Willie Stargell, Bill Mazeroski, 
Babe Ruth, Ted Williams and Mike Schmidt have played at McKechnie Field 
during their careers. The stadium also hosts minor league baseball games 
for the Bradenton Marauders, the Pirates' High-A club in the Florida State 
League. McKechnie's nostalgic charms in its city neighborhood appeal to 
many baseball traditionalists and ballpark enthusiasts, and some consider 
the facility to be Florida's version of Fenway Park. It's built in a Florida 
Spanish Mission style, with white stucco on the main grandstand and cover 
bleachers over the reserved seating section. The Pirates and the City of 
Bradenton celebrated their 40th anniversary together during the 2008 spring 
training season, which included an agreement between the city and the Pirates 
to continue their partnership through 2037. The field is currently the 
oldest stadium used for spring training as well as the second-oldest in 
the Florida State League (behind Jackie Robinson Ballpark, built in 1914). 
It is also the third oldest stadium currently used by a major league team 
after Fenway Park, built in 1912, and Wrigley Field in 1914.[3] The stadium 
also formerly hosted an annual charity game between the Pirates and the 
State College of Florida, Manatee–Sarasota. Several improvements to the 
field were also made possible through the efforts of the Bradenton Boosters, 
a volunteer club of local residents that not only raises funds for ballpark 
improvements, but also operate McKechnie Field on game day. Since 1979, 
members of the Boosters have volunteered as the Pirates spring training 
game-day staff. The booster club's 120 members currently serve as ushers, 
program sellers, security personnel, merchandise sellers, and press box 
attendants throughout spring training season.[4] Prior to its construction, 
the stadium's location was the site of Ninth Street Park, which was used 
by the Bradenton Growers of the Florida State League.[5] The site was also 
the home to the Manatee County fairgrounds as well as a local nine-hole 
golf course. On December 9, 1920, the Manatee County Board of Trade voted 
to bring major league baseball to the county in an attempt to stimulate 
the local economy. Prior to the 1920s, no major league team played south 
of St. Petersburg.[6] However Robert M. Beall Sr., the founder of the Bradenton-based 
department store, Bealls, as well as the team president and majority owner 
of the Bradenton Growers, was connected to Sam Breadon, the owner of the 
St. Louis Cardinals. Breadon also owned a citrus grove inside the county 
and was familiar with the area. Beall then convinced Breadon to move the 
Cardinals from their training facility in Orange, Texas to Bradenton.[7] 
As part of the agreement, Beall agreed to sell $2,000 in tickets for the 
exhibition games.[6] In a joint venture between the Cardinals and the city, 
the ball field was constructed with a grandstand and bleachers for $2,000.[8] 
The baseball field was just east of where McKechnie Field stands today, 
on the site of the Bradenton Golf Club, a nine-hole golf course. So after 
completion, city engineers discovered that the field's second base, was 
14 inches lower than home plate, and the outfield was even two feet lower 
than second base.[6] However the park opened in 1923. The Commissioner 
of Baseball, Kenesaw Mountain Landis attended field's opening ceremonies. 
He was flown in on a biplane, which was piloted by Harry Land, a member 
of Manatee County Board of Trade who approved bringing major league baseball 
to Bradenton. The plane landed in what was the outfield at the time, a 
par 5 hole. In 1923, the grandstand sat 1,300 and 700 could easily occupy 
the bleachers, which included separate facilities for segregated African-American 
fans. Meanwhile, the fairground buildings were converted into makeshift 
locker rooms.[7] The Bradenton Growers moved in and occupied McKechnie 
Field, which was then named City Park, from 1923–24, and again in 1926.[5] 
The field was later renamed Ninth Street Park and then Braves Field.[9] 
The Cardinals played in Bradenton in the very next season, before leaving 
for Stockton, California in 1925. However they were replaced by the Philadelphia 
Phillies who played in the park until 1928, until they left for Winter 
Haven. In 1928, the Boston Red Sox were looking at possibly coming to Bradenton, 
after spending the prior three years training in New Orleans. However, 
before the team would commit to the Bradenton, the Red Sox officials asked 
to see the attendance and financial figures of what they would see if they 
moved their training to Bradenton. Robert M. Beall Sr. then supplied the 
Red Sox with the actual figures they requested. The Boston officials were 
impressed with Beall's honesty. Every other city, competing for the Red 
Sox, had given the club figures on what they might have they choose their 
city, not their current factual figures. The Red Sox trained in Bradenton 
until 1930. That season the Cardinals returned to Bradenton and would stay 
their for the next seven springs.[6] In the 1930s, the Cardinals returned 
during what journalists refer to as "the gashouse gang era". During that 
time they had a lot of great ball players including Paul Derringer and 
future-Hall of Famer Dizzy Dean. Dean, who played at the stadium in the 
1930s, liked Bradenton so much, he bought a local gas station and hung 
out there when he wasn't playing, giving the Cardinals' famed Gashouse 
Gang its nickname.[10] Dean also bought a home in Bradenton. To keep him 
out of trouble, the Cardinals sent him down here weeks before spring training, 
and paid a local sportswriter to keep an eye on him.[11] In 1937 the Cardinals 
moved their training to City Island Ball Park, located in Daytona Beach. 
The Boston Bees (today's Atlanta Braves) played at the stadium until 1941, 
when they left for San Antonio, Texas. The stadium would not host another 
team for seven years.[6] During World War II, many major league teams avoided 
the long trip to Florida for training, opting instead to hold their sessions 
closer to their home cities to cut down on costs. However the United States 
military used the field as a training base from 1941 to 1945. The base 
was first named Camp Bradenton. However the name was later changed in 1943 
to Camp Weatherford, in honor of Pfc. Willie Weatherford, who was the first 
Florida native killed in the war.[11] The baseball field was filled with 
temporary buildings and tents and used as a United States Army Signal Corps 
training facility. The offices of the city's Public Works Department are 
next to the ballpark on land that was also part of the camp. The camp was 
attached to Drew Army Airfield, located in Tampa. When the war ended, that 
airfield became the Tampa International Airport. Meanwhile, the Camp Weatherford 
location was used once again for baseball. A historical marker now stands 
between the city offices and the stadium.[12] In 1948, Lou Perini, the 
owner of the Boston Braves (later renamed the Atlanta Braves) moved his 
club's spring training to Bradenton, after finding his club's training 
facility in Fort Lauderdale too windy. The Braves played in Bradenton for 
one year, however the city stated that if the Braves agreed to return the 
very next season, the city would build new clubhouses, field boxes along 
the first and third baselines and a new press box. The Braves agreed and 
stayed in Bradenton until 1963.[6] The Braves won three National League 
pennants while they trained there in 1948, 1957 and 1958, and won the 1957 
World Series. In 1953 the Braves moved from Boston to Milwaukee, but kept 
playing spring ball in Bradenton. Future Hall of famer, Hank Aaron played 
his first games in the major leagues in Bradenton as a rookie in 1954.[11] 
In 1950, Bradenton became the first club to bring allow an African-American 
baseball player, Sam Jethroe of the Boston Braves. This was a major breakthrough 
because had Florida not allowed him to join, the state would have lost 
all of its baseball clubs.[7] In 1962, the stadium was finally renamed 
after Bradenton-native, Bill McKechnie, in honor of his induction that 
year into the Baseball Hall of Fame as a manager.[11] However, after the 
1962 spring training session, Lou Perini moved the Braves to Connie Mack 
Field, after spending $1 million on a development in West Palm Beach. The 
city scrambled to get a new major league team in McKechnie Field. The city 
and the Philadelphia Phillies almost landed in Bradenton, however city 
official in Clearwater fixed several of the issues that the Phillies were 
unhappy about at Jack Russell Stadium.[6] That same year the field was 
formally named McKechnie Field.[11] The Kansas City Athletics played at 
McKechnie Field from 1963–1968. Ironically, the team left Connie Mack Field 
for Bradenton, after the Milwaukee Braves arrived in West Palm Beach. The 
team was not open to sharing their spring training facilities or stadium 
with the Braves. The City of Bradenton talked A's owner Charlie Finley 
into staying at McKechnie until 1968. By that time, the A's relocated from 
Kansas City to Oakland. Finley believed that his west coast team should 
train on the west coast, in Mesa, Arizona. During the Athletics tenure, 
Finley routinely tied his Athletics team mascot, a donkey named "Charlie 
O", to a tree inside the stadium during games."[11] Once the Athletics 
left Florida for the west coast, Bradenton made plans to attract a new 
major league club. The city would attempt to lure the Pittsburgh Pirates 
or the Cleveland Indians to McKechnie Field. The Indians, at the time, 
had a ten-year contract to play at Randolph Field, located in Tucson, Arizona 
and were written off by Bradenton officials. However the Pirates were unhappy 
at Terry Park, their spring training home for 14 years, located in Fort 
Myers. In February 1968, the city met with Pirates' general manager Joe 
Brown and owner John W. Galbreath and both sides agreed to a lease of 40 
years, with an option for another 40 years.[6] In 1969 the Pittsburgh Pirates 
began their lease of McKechnie Field. Still the team threatened to move 
several times in the first 34 years they'd been there. Prior to 1993, the 
playing field at McKechnie was much less popular with the players, than 
it is today. Whitey Herzog, the Kansas City Royals manager in the late 
1970s, called it "the closest thing to a cow pasture I've seen." Pirate 
outfielder Dave Parker later stated that "playing in the outfield [at McKechnie] 
was like playing in a "potato patch"."[9] This lead the city to finally 
install new grass and built new clubhouses, a grandstand and a press box 
in the 1980s. But McKechnie was still the oldest spring training facility 
in Florida, so city officials agreed to give the Pirates a renovated stadium 
to make sure they'd stay. During the early 1990s, many teams began renovating 
their spring training sites. At this time, the Pirates were threatening 
to leave Bradenton for Winter Haven in search of better training facilities. 
Many of the complaints that were associated with the pre-1993 ballpark 
include; red sand clotted the infield, old boards serving as bleacher seats 
and panels hanging loose on the outfield walls. The city then stepped in 
with a plan to use tourism tax money to rebuild McKechnie Field. The project, 
which ended up costing $3.4 million. In 1993 it was decided that the aging 
stadium was in need of a massive renovation. Pittsburgh-based architect, 
Lou Astorino, of L.D. Astorino Companies, was put in charge of renovating 
the ballpark. Astorino's renovation was inspired by Forbes Field, the Pirates' 
old stadium in Pittsburgh, with its outfield walls that were covered in 
ivy, like Wrigley Field, and the view of trees outside the park. He also 
chose a Spanish Mission façade based on the old Bradenton railroad station. 
The Pirates and local officials agreed that any renovation must preserve 
the neighborhood appeal of McKechnie.[9] After extensive interviews and 
months of work, an intimate park was recommended with new grounds, wide 
access ramps, concession stands, kiosks, improved sight lines, while maintaining 
a ballpark's classic ambiance. McKechnie's old metal chairs that served 
as box seats, the wooden bleachers were also removed, in favor of more 
modern stadium seating. The grandstand seen today at McKechnie was built 
as part of the 1993 renovation and holds 6,602 people.[13] Construction 
on the new park started in late 1992, and was barely completed by spring 
training 1993. Workers were still putting numbers on the stadium seats 
while the Manatee High School band played just minutes before the first 
pitch on March 5.[11] The stadium's remodeling was applauded highly by 
Pulitzer Prize-winning author and essayist George Will for keeping the 
vintage baseball park look.[9] Will was also a part-owner of the Pirates' 
opponents for their first game in the renovated park, the Baltimore Orioles 
and was in attendance.[11] The renovation to the Spanish mission-style 
ballpark preserved the intimate, old-time atmosphere so well that led USA 
Today dubbed it the "Fenway Park" of spring training stadiums. The red 
infield dirt was also swapped out in favor of a darker color of dirt during 
in the renovation, after then-Pirates manager Jim Leyland complained of 
the glare and heat reflecting from the reddish sand. Lou Astorino would 
later on to design PNC Park, which became the Pirates' regular season home 
in 2001.[9] In 2008, to celebrate the Pirates 40 seasons in Bradenton, 
the team unveiled a commemorative logo celebrating their 40th anniversary 
of hosting spring training in Bradenton, Florida. The logo was symbolic 
of the club's long-term relationship with the city. The patch displayed 
classic Pirates "P" onto the historical façade outline of McKechnie Field. 
The Pirates displayed the logo throughout spring training on a large billboard 
just behind the right-center field wall at McKechnie, as well as on the 
Pirates spring training jerseys.[14] The Pirates tenure in Bradenton (44 
years) ranks third in longevity among teams that currently hold spring 
training in Florida. Only the Detroit Tigers in Lakeland, Florida (65 years), 
and the Philadelphia Phillies in Clearwater, Florida (64 years) have been 
in their spring training locations longer.[4] The renovations prior to 
the 2008 spring training season included a new visitors' clubhouse, a new 
press lounge and lights. Improvements also included a renovation of Pirate 
City, the team's southern headquarters, with new offices, player dormitories 
and a fifth practice field.[1] The deal was partly funded by the state, 
which wants to prevent any more major league teams from migrating to the 
Cactus League in Arizona for spring training.[10] Originally, no night 
games were played at the ballpark for the first 85 years in the stadium's 
history. However, lights were installed and the stadium hosted its first 
night game in 2008.[4] Since the first night game was played at Wrigley 
Field in 1988, McKechnie had been the only ballpark used by a major league 
team at any time of the year that lacked lights. The Pirates have always 
played a handful of night exhibition games each year, but never at McKechnie. 
Previously, the Pirates never saw the need for lights at McKechnie, and 
never pushed for them. Players and team officials have long been comfortable 
with the routine of arriving early in the morning, getting in a day's workouts 
and a ballgame, then enjoying a leisurely dinner at night. However the 
lack of lights, meant that McKechnie could only be used for only spring 
training games, and the facility sat empty 11 months a year.[10] The installation 
of lights was made possible after the city of Bradenton received a $15 
million grant from the state of Florida to upgrade the Pirates' spring 
training facilities. The grant fund was set up to prevent any more major 
league teams from migrating to the Cactus League in Arizona for spring 
training.[10] Besides the lights, the grant money paid for a new visitors' 
clubhouse and an expanded home clubhouse. A lighted McKechnie Field will 
allow for night baseball and other events, enabling the city to use the 
ballpark as a catalyst in an area where officials envision an entertainment 
district.[15] The first night game at McKechnie was originally scheduled 
for March 7 as the Pirates took on the Cincinnati Reds but the game was 
rained out.[16] Instead the ballpark's first night game was pushed back 
to March 19, 2008. The game resulted in a Pirates loss to the New York 
Yankees, 12-9.[17] Because of the improvements, the Pirates signed a new 
30-year lease that went into effect on February 1, 2008. The team is now 
guaranteed to play at McKechnie Field through 2037, and after playing two 
night games in Bradenton in 2008 the Pirates will have many more opportunities 
to play under the lights over the next few decades.[18] However Pirates' 
alumni Bill Virdon and Chuck Tanner have both disagreed on the need for 
lights, stating their opinion that spring training games were meant to 
be held in the daytime.[10] However the lights would be key to the stadium 
landing a new minor league team a few years later. McKechnie Field did 
not host a Florida State League team, since the end of Bradenton Growers 
era, from 1926 until 2010. From 1989–1990, the Bradenton Explorers of the 
Senior Professional Baseball Association though played at McKechnie.[19] 
The Pirates' Rookie Level minor league affiliate, the Gulf Coast Pirates, 
formerly the Bradenton Pirates, currently play their games at the Pirates 
training facility in Bradenton's Pirate City complex. However, on November 
10, 2009, baseball officials voted to allow the Pirates to purchase and 
uproot the Cincinnati Reds' Class A affiliate, the Sarasota Reds. The team 
was renamed the Bradenton Marauders and play all of its home games at McKechnie 
Field. In return the Red received the Pirates Class A team, the Lynchburg 
Hillcats. The new Bradenton team began play on April 7, 2010.[20] The inaugural 
game ended in 18-3 Bradenton victory over the Fort Myers Miracle.[21] In 
early 2012, Bradenton officials planned to make a $7.5 million loan to 
pay for "fan-friendly" renovations to McKechnie Field. The proposed upgrades 
included new seating, enhanced fan plazas, a boardwalk that would circumnavigate 
the stadium, a tiki bar, more concession stands, restroom improvements, 
an upgraded sound system and scoreboard. To pay for the ballpark renovations, 
the city planned to take out a 20-year loan, repaying it primarily from 
the county's "bed tax", which visitors pay when they stay at a hotel or 
resort located in Manatee County. Under the deal, the Pittsburgh Pirates, 
who contributed the equivalent of $150,000 annually to market the city 
of Bradenton, planned to increase their marketing donation to $400,000 
annually. That money was then be used to promote tourism in county. The 
renovations also allow McKechnie Field to host sports events, such as high 
school regional tournaments.[8] On February 7, 2012, Manatee County commissioners 
Tuesday agreed to an interlocal agreement that will provide McKechnie Field 
with the $7.5 million in renovations.[22] The project was slated to begin 
after the Pirates’ 2012 spring training season and will continue around 
the Marauders’ 2012 schedule. Improvements could be completed prior to 
the 2013 spring training season.[23] The renovations will allows for the 
metal roof that sits over the grandstand area to be repaired. In 2011, 
the metal ceilings that occupied McKechnie had to be removed because of 
corrosion. The removal forced two Marauders home games to be relocated 
to Port Charlotte. Temporary awnings were put in place for the upcoming 
2012 season. Construction of a new, permanent roof is planned and was completed 
in 2013.[24] On August 16, 2012, the Pirates announced that the team would 
contribute an additional $2 million to $3 million for the renovations to 
McKechnie Field, increasing total enhancement costs for their Bradenton 
spring training home from 7.5 million to approximately $10 million.[25] 
The renovations' design and construction were performed by Fawley Bryant 
Architects and NDC Construction, both Manatee County businesses.[26] The 
renovated was unveiled to the media on February 20, 2013. The changes come 
on the anniversaries of McKechnie's 90th year in existence, as well as, 
the Pirates' 45th year at the stadium. With the changes, McKechnie became 
the fourth largest capacity venue in the Grapefruit League.[27] For both 
aesthetic and business reasons, McKechnie Field was chosen as the Best 
Ballpark Renovation, in the Over $1 Million category, of 2013 by Ballpark 
Digest, the leading guide to baseball and ballparks on the Internet.[28] 
McKechnie Field hosted the 2014 Florida State League All-Star Game on Saturday, 
June 14, 2014.[29] The Marauders were represented in the game by outfielder 
Josh Bell and left-handed pitcher Orlando Castro.[30] The attendance of 
5,882 fans for the game was the highest for the league's All-Star Game 
since 2006 and it was also the 3rd highest attendance in the All-Star Game's 
53-year history.[31] In February 2015, the Pirates opened and began using 
a brand-new 22,500-square-foot facility at the ballpark. According to Trevor 
Gooby, the director of Florida Operations for the Pirates, "McKechnie was 
built in 1923, and the clubhouse was probably built right after the stadium 
was built, so it was the oldest part of McKechnie Field". The walls have 
the numbers of retired players and dates of victorious championships. There 
is also a quote from Pirates' legend Roberto Clemente located in the locker 
room area that reads: "When I put on my uniform, I feel I am the proudest 
man on earth." Other areas of the building contain a weight room, rehab 
center and two hydrogen pools. The $6.5 million facility was funded by 
the Pirates.[32] McKechnie Field was used as the site for each game of 
the 2016 Florida State League Championship series between the Marauders 
and the Tampa Yankees due to construction at the Yankees' stadium, Steinbrenner 
Field. The Marauders defeated the Yankees, in 4 games to win their first 
Florida State League title.[33] In 1989, for his book,Spring Training author 
William Zinsser chose McKechnie Field as a classic Florida baseball setting.[9] 
McKechnie Field was also used as a backdrop for the 1987 HBO movie, Long 
