MCU Park (formerly KeySpan Park) is a minor league baseball stadium in 
the Coney Island section of Brooklyn, New York City, USA. The home team 
is the New York Mets-affiliated Brooklyn Cyclones of the New York–Penn 
League. The NYU Violets Baseball team began playing at MCU Park in 2015. 
Official seating capacity is 7,000, though the Cyclones will sell up to 
2,500 more standing room tickets. Prior to 2016, the capacity was 7,500 
plus 2,500 standing room. Features include a concourse with free-standing 
concession buildings and overhanging fluorescent lamps in different colors, 
evoking an amusement park atmosphere. In addition, the park overlooks the 
Atlantic Ocean as well as the famous Parachute Jump in right field, and 
the landmarks Wonder Wheel and Coney Island Cyclone in left field. MCU 
Park is accessible via New York City Subway at the Coney Island – Stillwell 
Avenue subway station, served by the D F N Q trains. MCU Park was built 
on the old site of Steeplechase Park, an old-time Coney Island amusement 
park that closed in 1964 amid crime and general deterioration of Coney 
Island and of the subway routes that run to the area. Part of a general 
reinvestment in the Coney Island neighborhood, the park opened in 2001 
with a capacity of 6,500. Demand for Cyclones tickets was so great that 
the team added 1,000 seats in a right-field bleacher pavilion within three 
weeks after the park opened. MCU Park prohibits fans from bringing outside 
food into the stadium, a policy in every minor league stadium, but not 
in effect at Citi Field and Yankee Stadium. MCU Park and the Staten Island 
Yankees' Richmond County Bank Ballpark were paid for with public money, 
part of a deal that involved both the Mets and Yankees. The Yankees had 
to approve the construction of MCU Park, and the Mets had to approve the 
Yankees' minor league park, since the Major League Baseball organizations 
share territorial rights to the New York City market, and have veto power 
over each other (and any other MLB organization). The park's naming rights 
were sold to KeySpan Energy, a utility company whose primary holding is 
the former Brooklyn Union Gas, until 2020. However, in 2007, KeySpan was 
acquired by United Kingdom-based National Grid plc. On January 29, 2010, 
the Cyclones announced that they had ended the deal with National Grid, 
because the KeySpan name no longer is in existence. On February 4, 2010, 
it was announced that the Municipal Credit Union signed an agreement for 
the ballpark to be called MCU Park in an eleven-year naming rights deal.[6][7] 
Following the 2015 season, a set of bleachers were removed, removing 500 
seats from the ballpark. The Brooklyn Bolts played their home games at 
MCU Park during the 2014 and 2015 Fall Experimental Football League seasons 
before folding. The New York Cosmos played their May 2, 2015, regular season 
match against the Ottawa Fury at MCU Park.[8] In 2015, the New York University 
Violets moved in and made MCU Park their home stadium. In the process, 
they forced the St. Joseph's College Bears to move out. Baruch College 
plays a few games at MCU Park, as do many high school teams. From September 
22nd to 25th, 2016 the World Baseball Classic hosted a qualifying round 
at MCU Park for the 2017 World Baseball Classic.[9] Israel won he Qualifier 
over Great Britain, Brazil & Pakistan. On July 2, 2010, MCU Park hosted 
a live Total Nonstop Action Wrestling house show which also broke the TNA 
attendance record and became the most attended live TNA house show in the 
United States to date with a crowd of just under 5,550 fans. On August 
15, 2014, Ring of Honor Wrestling debuted at MCU Park with Field of Honor. 
On August 22, 2015, Ring of Honor Wrestling returned to MCU Park for the 
