"Me and Julio Down by the Schoolyard" is a song by the American singer-songwriter 
Paul Simon. It was the second single from his second self-titled studio 
album (1972), released on Columbia Records. The song is about two boys 
("Me and Julio") who have broken a law, although the exact law that has 
been broken is not stated in the song. When "the mama pajama" finds out 
what they have done, she goes to the police station to report the crime. 
The individuals are later arrested, but released when a "radical priest" 
intervenes. The meaning and references in the song have long provoked debate. 
In a July 20, 1972 interview for Rolling Stone, Jon Landau asked: "What 
is it that the mama saw? The whole world wants to know." Simon replied 
"I have no idea what it is... Something sexual is what I imagine, but when 
I say 'something', I never bothered to figure out what it was. Didn't make 
any difference to me." This implies that Simon left the crime up to the 
imagination of the listener, allowing each person who listens to the song 
to draw their own conclusion from their own thoughts and experiences. This 
has not stopped speculation on a definite interpretation: commentators 
have detected references to recreational drug use, and believe that the 
mother saw the boy buying drugs. More recently, in October 2010, Simon 
described the song as "a bit of inscrutable doggerel.",[1] while the "radical 
priest" has been interpreted[by whom?] as a reference to Daniel Berrigan,[2] 
who featured on the cover of Time when the song was written. The percussion 
sound in the song, unusual for American pop, was created with a Cuica, 
a Brazilian friction drum instrument often used in samba music. In 1988, 
Simon released a video for the song to promote his greatest hits compilation 
Negotiations and Love Songs. The video filmed at Halsey Junior High School, 
in Forest Hills, Queens, New York City. This was the same neighborhood 
within which Simon grew up and met Art Garfunkel in high school. Many of 
the children featured in the video were from that same school. It features 
an introduction by hip hop emcees (and then-fellow Warner Bros. Records 
label mates) Big Daddy Kane and Biz Markie. Main Source member Large Professor 
also makes a minor cameo towards the end.[3] The video depicts adults interacting 
with the youth of an inner-city schoolyard. It shows Simon playing basketball 
and baseball with the children, and it also features basketball player 
Spud Webb, baseball legend Mickey Mantle, and football coach-commentator 
John Madden giving tips to young athletes. The song appears in a montage 
in the 2001 movie The Royal Tenenbaums directed by filmmaker Wes Anderson. 
It also appears in the film A Home at the End of the World, over the opening 
credits of Maid in Manhattan, The Simpsons episode "Holidays of Future 
Passed", within the film The Muppets, and during the opening credits in 
Real Women Have Curves.[citation needed] Simon himself performed the song 
on Sesame Street,[4] along with a girl who backed him up singing "Dance 
dance dance all right/dance dance dance all right/Everybody dance," etc. 
Canadian musician Sam Roberts performed a shortened version of the song 
on the Kids' CBC program Mamma Yamma, altering some of the lyrics to fit 
the scene he was in.[citation needed] The song plays in the second episode 
of Saturday Night Live, during a Weekend Update segment where Simon plays 
basketball.[5] Simon performed the song with Stephen Colbert on the September 
