Mel Allen (born Melvin Allen Israel; February 14, 1913 – June 16, 1996)[1] 
was an American sportscaster, best known for his long tenure as the primary 
play-by-play announcer for the New York Yankees. During the peak of his 
career in the 1940s, 1950s and 1960s, Allen was arguably the most prominent 
member of his profession, his voice familiar to millions. Years after his 
death, he is still promoted as having been the "Voice of the New York Yankees." 
In his later years, he gained a second professional life as the first host 
of This Week in Baseball. In perhaps the most notable moment of his distinguished 
career, Allen called game 7 of the 1960 World Series, in which Bill Mazeroski 
hit a walk-off home run to win the fall classic for the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
This is the only walk-off home run ever to occur in a game 7 of a World 
Series. Allen was born in Birmingham, Alabama. He attended the University 
of Alabama, where he was a member of the Kappa Nu Fraternity as an undergraduate.[2] 
During his time at Alabama, Israel served as the public address announcer 
for Alabama Crimson Tide football games. In 1933, when the station manager 
or sports director of Birmingham's radio station WBRC asked Alabama coach 
Frank Thomas to recommend a new play-by-play announcer, he suggested Allen. 
His first broadcast was Alabama's home opener that year, against the Tulane 
Green Wave.[3][4] Allen graduated from the University of Alabama School 
of Law in 1937. Shortly after graduating, Allen took a train to New York 
City for a week's vacation. While on that week's vacation, he auditioned 
for a staff announcer's position at the CBS Radio Network. CBS executives 
already knew of Allen; the network's top sportscaster, Ted Husing, had 
heard many of his Crimson Tide broadcasts. He was hired at $45 a week.[5] 
He often did non-sports announcing such as for big band remotes, or "emceeing" 
game shows such as Truth or Consequences, serving as an understudy for 
both sportscaster Husing and newscaster Bob Trout.[3][4][6] In his first 
year at CBS, he announced the crash of the Hindenburg when the station 
cut away from singer Kate Smith's show. He first became a national celebrity 
when he ad libbed for a half-hour during the rain-delayed Vanderbilt Cup 
from an airplane.[7] In 1939, he was the announcer for the Warner Brothers 
& Vitaphone film musical short-subject, On the Air, with Leith Stevens 
and the Saturday Night Swing Club.[8][9] Stephen Borelli, in his biography 
How About That?! (a favorite expression of Allen's after an outstanding 
play by the home team), states that it was at CBS's suggestion in 1937, 
the year Melvin Israel joined the network, that he go by a different last 
name on the air. He chose Allen, his father's middle name as well as his 
own, and legally changed his name to Melvin Allen in 1943.[4] Allen was 
used as a color commentator for CBS's radio broadcast of the 1938 World 
Series. This led Wheaties to tap him to replace Arch McDonald as the voice 
of the Washington Senators for the 1939 season, who was moving on to New 
York as the first full-time radio voice of both the Yankees and the New 
York Giants for their home games. Senators' owner Clark Griffith wanted 
Walter Johnson, a former Senators pitcher, instead of Allen, and Wheaties 
relented.[5] In June 1939, Garnett Marks, McDonald's partner on Yankee 
broadcasts, twice mispronounced Ivory Soap, the Yankees' sponsor at the 
time, as "Ovary Soap." He was fired, and Allen was tapped to replace him. 
McDonald himself went back to Washington after only one season, and Allen 
became the Yankees' and Giants' lead announcer,[5] doing double duty for 
both teams because only their home games were broadcast at that time. He 
periodically recounted an anecdote that occurred during his first full 
season (1940) as Yankee play-by-play man. Hall of Fame first baseman Lou 
Gehrig had been forced to retire the year before after having been diagnosed 
with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, a fatal illness. Speaking with Allen 
in the Yankee dugout, Gehrig told him "Mel, I never got a chance to listen 
to your games before because I was playing every day. But I want you to 
know they're the only thing that keeps me going." Allen broke down in tears 
after Gehrig departed.[5] Allen's stint with the Yankees and Giants was 
interrupted in 1941, when no sponsor could be found and both teams went 
off the air, but the broadcasts resumed in 1942. Allen was the voice of 
both the Yankees and the Giants until 1943, when he entered the United 
States Army during World War II, broadcasting on The Army Hour and Armed 
Forces Radio.[4] After the war, Allen called Yankee games exclusively. 
By this time, road games were added to the broadcast schedule. Before long 
Allen and the Yankees were fused in the public consciousness,[10] an association 
strengthened by the team's frequent World Series appearances. Allen eventually 
called 22 World Series on radio or television, including all but one in 
the 17-year stretch between 1947 and 1963. He also called 24 All-Star Games.[4] 
Allen was one of the first three celebrities spoofed in the just-created 
Mad satirical comic book. In the second issue, Allen, Giant manager Leo 
Durocher and Hall of Fame Yankee catcher Yogi Berra were all caricatured 
in a baseball story, "Hex!", illustrated by Jack Davis. His likeness was 
also licensed by Standard Comics for a two-issue "Mel Allen's Sports Comics" 
series between 1949 and 1950.[11] After Russ Hodges departed from the Yankee 
booth to become the longtime voice of the New York (and starting in 1958, 
San Francisco) Giants, the young Curt Gowdy replaced him as Allen's broadcast 
partner in 1949 & 1950, having been brought in from Oklahoma City after 
winning a national audition. Gowdy, originally from Wyoming, credited Mel 
Allen's mentoring as a big factor in his own success as a broadcaster, 
and became the voice of the Boston Red Sox from 1951 to 1965. Red Barber, 
the former Brooklyn Dodgers announcer who had served as Allen's crosstown 
rival and frequent World Series broadcast partner, joined the Yankees' 
booth in 1954 and teamed with Allen until the latter's dismissal a decade 
later. Among Allen's many catchphrases were "Hello there, everybody!" to 
start a game, "How a-bout that?!" on outstanding Yankee plays, "Go-ing, 
go-ing, gonnne!!" for Yankee home runs, for full counts, "Three and two. 
What'll he do?" and after a robust Yankee swing and miss, "He took a good 
cut!"[7] Allen lost his voice late in the fourth and last game of the 1963 
World Series, in which the Dodgers swept the Yankees in four games and 
their longtime announcer, Vin Scully, paired with Allen on the national 
telecast, spontaneously took over from him for the end of the game after 
he could no longer talk, telling him soothingly, "That's all right, Mel." 
(Scully had announced the first half of the game, and Allen had begun to 
announce the second half.)[5] Allen called a number of college football 
bowl games, including 14 Rose Bowls, two Orange Bowls, and two Sugar Bowls.[12] 
In the National Football League, Allen served as play-by-play announcer 
for the Washington Redskins in 1952 and 1953 and for the New York Giants 
on WCBS-AM in 1960, with some of the Giants' broadcasts also carried nationally 
by the CBS Radio Network. He also did radio play-by-play for the Miami 
Dolphins' and for the Miami Hurricanes.[13][14] Allen hosted Jackpot Bowling 
on NBC in 1959 after Leo Durocher had left to return to major league baseball 
coaching, but his lack of bowling knowledge made him an unpopular host 
and Bud Palmer replaced him as the show's host in April.[15][16] In the 
early 1940s, Allen hosted Thirty Minutes to Play on CBS radio. The program 
featured "interviews of sports and musical personalities."[17] In 1947, 
Allen was a disc jockey on WINS (AM) in New York City, with a 2-5 p.m. 
program daily. An ad for the station in Broadcasting called the show "the 
initial step in our plans for bloc [sic] programming."[18] In the early 
1960s, Allen hosted the three-hour Saturday morning segment of the weekend 
NBC Radio program Monitor. He also contributed sportscasts to the program 
until the late 1960s. Allen also provided voiceover narration for Fox Movietone 
newsreels for many years. On September 21, 1964—prior to the end of the 
season—the Yankees informed Allen that his contract with the team would 
not be renewed for 1965. In those days, the main announcers for both Series 
participants always called the World Series on NBC television. Although 
Allen was thus technically eligible to call the 1964 World Series, Baseball 
Commissioner Ford Frick honored the Yankees' request to have retired Yankee 
star shortstop Phil Rizzuto, Allen's sidekick in the radio booth, join 
the Series crew instead. It would be one of only four Yankee World Series 
going back to 1938 that Allen had not broadcast, and the first since 1943 
(which he'd missed due to his Army service). On December 17, 1964, after 
much media speculation and many letters to the Yankees from fans disgruntled 
by Allen's absence from the Series, the Yankees issued a terse press release 
announcing Allen's firing; he was replaced by Joe Garagiola. NBC and Movietone 
dropped him soon afterward. To this day, the Yankees have never given an 
explanation for the sudden firing, and rumors abounded. Depending on the 
rumor, Allen was either homosexual, an alcoholic, a drug addict, or had 
a nervous breakdown.[7] Years later, Allen told author Curt Smith that 
the Yankees had fired him under pressure from the team's longtime sponsor, 
Ballantine Beer. According to Allen, he was fired as a cost-cutting move 
by Ballantine, which had been experiencing poor sales for years[7] (it 
would eventually be sold in 1969). Smith, in his book Voices of Summer, 
also indicated that the medications Allen took to see him through his busy 
schedule may have affected his on-air performance. (Stephen Borelli, another 
biographer, has also pointed out that Allen's heavy workload did not allow 
him time to take care of his health.) Allen became Merle Harmon's partner 
for Milwaukee Braves games in 1965, and worked Cleveland Indians games 
on television in 1968. But he would not commit to either team full-time, 
nor to the Oakland Athletics, who also wanted to hire him after the team's 
move from Kansas City. Despite the firing in 1964, Allen remained loyal 
to the Yankees for the remainder of his life, and to this day—years after 
his death—he is still popularly known as "the Voice of the Yankees."[12][13][19][20][21] 
The Yankees eventually brought Allen back to emcee special Yankee Stadium 
ceremonies, including Old-Timers' Day, which Allen had originally handled 
when he was lead announcer. Although Yankee broadcaster Frank Messer, who 
joined the club in 1968, replaced him as emcee for Old-Timers' Day and 
other special events like Mickey Mantle Day, the Yankees continued to invite 
Allen to call the actual exhibition game between the Old Timers, and to 
take part in players' number-retirement ceremonies. Allen was brought back 
to the Yankees' on-air team in 1976 as a pre/post-game host for the cable 
telecasts with John Sterling, and also started calling play-by-play again. 
He announced Yankees cable telecasts on SportsChannel New York (now MSG 
Plus) with Phil Rizzuto, Bill White, Frank Messer, and occasionally, Fran 
Healy.[22][23][24] Allen remained with the Yankees' play-by-play crew until 
1985 and made occasional appearances on Yankee telecasts and commercials 
into the late 1980s. In 1990, Allen called play-by-play for a WPIX Yankees 
game to officially make him baseball's first seven-decade announcer. Among 
the memorable moments Allen called in his latter stretch were Yankee outfielder 
Reggie Jackson's 400th home run in 1980, and Yankee pitcher Dave Righetti's 
no-hitter on July 4, 1983.[25] In his later years, Allen was exposed to 
a new audience as the host of the syndicated highlights show This Week 
in Baseball, which he hosted from its inception in 1977 until his death. 
When FOX relaunched TWIB in 2000 (after a one-year hiatus), it used a claymation 
version of Allen to open and close the show until 2002.[citation needed] 
Allen recorded the play-by-play for two computer baseball games, Tony La 
Russa Baseball and Old Time Baseball, which were published by Stormfront 
Studios. The games included his signature "How about that?!" home run call. 
He also used the same catch-phrase during his cameo appearances in the 
films The Naked Gun (1988) and Needful Things (1993).[26] Producer Don 
Daglow said in a 1995 interview with Computer Gaming World that The National 
Sportscasters and Sportswriters Association inducted Allen into its Hall 
of Fame in 1972. In 1978, he was one of the first two winners of the Baseball 
Hall of Fame's Ford C. Frick Award for broadcasting, along with Red Barber. 
In 1985, Allen was inducted into the American Sportscasters Association 
Hall of Fame along with former Yankee partner (and later Red Sox and NBC 
Sports voice) Curt Gowdy and Chicago legend Jack Brickhouse. He was inducted 
into the National Radio Hall of Fame in 1988.[22] In 2009, the American 
Sportscasters Association ranked Allen as the #2 greatest sportscaster 
of all time, second only to Vin Scully.[27] Allen died on June 16, 1996, 
of heart failure (he had undergone open-heart surgery in 1989) at the age 
of 83. His one-week vacation in New York City had turned into 60 years. 
He was buried at Temple Beth El Cemetery in Stamford, Connecticut. On July 
25, 1998, the Yankees dedicated a plaque in his memory for Monument Park 
at Yankee Stadium. The plaque calls him "A Yankee institution, a national 
