Melbourne (/ˈmɛlbən/)[4][5][6] is the capital and most populous city in 
the Australian state of Victoria, and the second most populous city in 
Australia.[1] The name "Melbourne" refers to an urban agglomeration spanning 
9,900 km2 (3,800 sq mi)[3] which comprises the broader metropolitan area, 
as well as being the common name for its city centre. The metropolis is 
located on the large natural bay of Port Phillip and expands into the hinterlands 
towards the Dandenong and Macedon mountain ranges, Mornington Peninsula 
and Yarra Valley. Melbourne consists of 31 municipalities.[7] It has a 
population of 4,529,500 as of 2015[update], and its inhabitants are called 
Melburnians.[8][9] Founded by free settlers from the British Crown colony 
of Van Diemen's Land on 30 August 1835, in what was then the colony of 
New South Wales,[10] it was incorporated as a Crown settlement in 1837.[10] 
It was named "Melbourne" by the Governor of New South Wales, Sir Richard 
Bourke, in honour of the British Prime Minister of the day, William Lamb, 
2nd Viscount Melbourne.[10] It was officially declared a city by Queen 
Victoria, whom Lord Melbourne was close to, in 1847,[11] after which it 
became the capital of the newly founded colony of Victoria in 1851.[11] 
During the Victorian gold rush of the 1850s, it was transformed into one 
of the world's largest and wealthiest cities.[12] After the federation 
of Australia in 1901, it served as the nation's interim seat of government 
until 1927.[13] Melbourne rates highly in education, entertainment, health 
care, research and development, tourism and sport,[14] making it the world's 
most liveable city—for the sixth year in a row in 2016, according to the 
Economist Intelligence Unit.[15] It is a leading financial centre in the 
Asia-Pacific region, and ranks among the top 30 cities in the world in 
the Global Financial Centres Index.[16][17] Referred to as Australia's 
"cultural capital",[18] it is the birthplace of Australian impressionism, 
Australian rules football, the Australian film and television industries, 
and Australian contemporary dance. It is recognised as a UNESCO City of 
Literature and a major centre for street art, music and theatre. It is 
home to many of Australia's largest and oldest cultural institutions such 
as the Melbourne Cricket Ground, the National Gallery of Victoria, the 
State Library of Victoria and the UNESCO World Heritage-listed Royal Exhibition 
Building. It was the host city of the 1956 Summer Olympics. The main passenger 
airport serving the metropolis and the state is Melbourne Airport (also 
called Tullamarine Airport), which is the second busiest in Australia, 
and the Port of Melbourne is Australia's busiest seaport for containerised 
and general cargo.[19] Melbourne has an extensive transport network. The 
main metropolitan train terminus is Flinders Street Station, and the main 
regional train and coach terminus is Southern Cross Station. Melbourne 
is also home to Australia's most extensive freeway network and has the 
world's largest urban tram network.[20] Before the arrival of white settlers, 
humans had occupied the area for an estimated 31,000 to 40,000 years.[21] 
At the time of European settlement, it was inhabited by under 20,000[22] 
hunter-gatherers from three indigenous regional tribes: the Wurundjeri, 
Boonwurrung and Wathaurong.[23] The area was an important meeting place 
for the clans of the Kulin nation alliance and a vital source of food and 
water.[24][25] The first European settlement in Victoria was established 
by Colonel David Collins in October 1803, at Sullivan Bay, near present-day 
Sorrento, but this settlement was relocated to what is now Hobart, Tasmania, 
in February 1804, due to a perceived lack of resources. It would be 30 
years before another settlement was attempted.[26] In May and June 1835, 
the area which is now central and northern Melbourne was explored by John 
Batman, a leading member of the Port Phillip Association in Van Diemen's 
Land (now known as Tasmania), who claimed to have negotiated a purchase 
of 600,000 acres (2,400 km2) with eight Wurundjeri elders.[24][25] Batman 
selected a site on the northern bank of the Yarra River, declaring that 
"this will be the place for a village".[27] Batman then returned to Launceston 
in Tasmania. In early August 1835 a different group of settlers, including 
John Pascoe Fawkner, left Launceston on the ship Enterprize. Fawkner was 
forced to disembark at Georgetown, Tasmania, because of outstanding debts. 
The remainder of the party continued and arrived at the mouth of the Yarra 
River on 15 August 1835. On 30 August 1835 the party disembarked and established 
a settlement at the site of the current Melbourne Immigration Museum. Batman 
and his group arrived on 2 September 1835 and the two groups ultimately 
agreed to share the settlement. Batman's Treaty with the Aborigines was 
annulled by the New South Wales governor (who at the time governed all 
of eastern mainland Australia), with compensation paid to members of the 
association.[24] In 1836, Governor Bourke declared the city the administrative 
capital of the Port Phillip District of New South Wales, and commissioned 
the first plan for the city, the Hoddle Grid, in 1837.[28] The settlement 
was named Batmania after Batman. However, later that year the settlement 
was named "Melbourne" after the British Prime Minister, William Lamb, 2nd 
Viscount Melbourne, whose seat was Melbourne Hall in the market town of 
Melbourne, Derbyshire. On 13 April 1837 the settlement's general post office 
officially opened with that name.[29] Between 1836 and 1842 Victorian Aboriginal 
groups were largely dispossessed of their land by European settlers.[30] 
By January 1844, there were said to be 675 Aborigines resident in squalid 
camps in Melbourne.[31] The British Colonial Office appointed five Aboriginal 
Protectors for the Aborigines of Victoria, in 1839, however their work 
was nullified by a land policy that favoured squatters to take possession 
of Aboriginal lands.[32] By 1845, fewer than 240 wealthy Europeans held 
all the pastoral licences then issued in Victoria and became a powerful 
political and economic force in Victoria for generations to come.[33] Letters 
patent of Queen Victoria, issued on 25 June 1847, declared Melbourne a 
city.[11] On 1 July 1851 the Port Phillip District became the separate 
Colony of Victoria, with Melbourne as its capital.[34] The discovery of 
gold in Victoria in mid-1851 led to a gold rush, and Melbourne, which served 
as the major port and provided most services for the region, experienced 
rapid growth. Within months, the city's population had increased from 25,000 
to 40,000 inhabitants.[35] Thereafter, growth was exponential and by 1865, 
Melbourne had overtaken Sydney as Australia's most populous city.[36] An 
influx of intercolonial and overseas migrants, particularly Irish, German 
and Chinese, saw the establishment of slums including a temporary "tent 
city" on the southern banks of the Yarra. Chinese migrants founded Chinatown 
in 1851, which remains the longest continuous Chinese settlement outside 
Asia.[37] In the aftermath of the 1854 Eureka Rebellion, mass public support 
for the plight of the miners resulted in major political changes to the 
colony, including improvements in working conditions across mining, agriculture, 
manufacturing and other local industries. The various nationalities involved 
in the rebellion give some indication of immigration flows at the time.[38] 
With the wealth brought on by the gold rush and the subsequent need for 
public buildings, a program of grand civic construction soon began. The 
1850s and 1860s saw the commencement of Parliament House, the Treasury 
Building, the Old Melbourne Gaol, Victoria Barracks, the State Library, 
University, General Post Office, Customs House, the Melbourne Town Hall, 
St Patrick's cathedral, though many remained uncompleted for decades, with 
some still not finished. The layout of the inner suburbs on a largely one-mile 
grid pattern, cut through by wide radial boulevards and parklands surrounding 
the central city was largely established in the 1850s and 1860s. These 
areas were rapidly filled by the ubiquitous terrace house, as well as detached 
houses and grand mansions, while some of the major roads developed as shopping 
streets. Melbourne quickly became a major finance centre, home to several 
banks, the Royal Mint, and Australia's first stock exchange in 1861.[39] 
In 1855 the Melbourne Cricket Club secured possession of its now famous 
ground, the MCG. Members of the Melbourne Football Club codified Australian 
football in 1859, and Yarra rowing clubs and "regattas" became popular 
about the same time. In 1861 the Melbourne Cup was first run. In 1864 Melbourne 
acquired its first public monument—the Burke and Wills statue. With the 
gold rush largely over by 1860, Melbourne continued to grow on the back 
of continuing gold mining, as the major port for exporting the agricultural 
products of Victoria, especially wool, and a developing manufacturing sector 
protected by high tariffs. An extensive radial railway network spreading 
into the countryside was established from the late 1850s. Further major 
public buildings were begun in the 1860s and 1870s such as the Supreme 
Court, Government House, and the Queen Victoria Market. The central city 
filled up with shops and offices, workshops, and warehouses. Large banks 
and hotels faced the main streets, with fine townhouses in the east end 
of Collins Street, contrasting with tiny cottages down laneways within 
the blocks. The Aboriginal population continued to decline with an estimated 
80% total decrease by 1863, due primarily to introduced diseases, particularly 
smallpox,[22] frontier violence and dispossession from their lands. The 
decade of the 1880s was one of extraordinary growth, when consumer confidence, 
easy access to credit, and steep increases in the price of land, led to 
an enormous amount of construction. This 'land boom' was followed by a 
severe economic crash in the early 1890s which lasted until the end of 
the century. During the boom, Melbourne had reputedly become the richest 
city in the world,[12] and the largest after London in the British Empire.[citation 
needed] The decade began with the Melbourne International Exhibition in 
1880, held in the large purpose-built Exhibition Building. In 1880 a telephone 
exchange was established and in the same year the foundations of St Paul's, 
were laid; in 1881 electric light was installed in the Eastern Market, 
and in the following year a generating station capable of supplying 2,000 
incandescent lamps was in operation.[40] In 1885 the first line of the 
Melbourne cable tramway system was built, becoming one of the worlds most 
extensive systems by 1890. During a visit in 1885 English journalist George 
Augustus Henry Sala coined the phrase "Marvellous Melbourne", which stuck 
long into the twentieth century and is still used today by Melburnians.[41] 
Growing building activity culminated in a "land boom" which, in 1888, reached 
a peak of speculative development fuelled by consumer confidence and escalating 
land value.[42] As a result of the boom, large commercial buildings, coffee 
palaces, terrace housing and palatial mansions proliferated in the city.[42] 
The establishment of a hydraulic facility in 1887 allowed for the local 
manufacture of elevators, resulting in the first construction of high-rise 
buildings;[43] most notably the APA Building, amongst the world's tallest 
commercial buildings upon completion in 1889.[42] This period also saw 
the expansion of a major radial rail-based transport network.[44] In 1888, 
the Exhibition Building hosted a second event even larger than the first, 
the Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, spurring construction of numerous 
hotels including the 500 room Federal Hotel, The Palace Hotel in Bourke 
Street (both since demolished), and the doubling in size of the Grand (Windsor). 
A brash boosterism that had typified Melbourne during this time ended in 
the early 1890s with a severe depression of the city's economy, sending 
the local finance and property industries into a period of chaos[42][45] 
during which 16 small "land banks" and building societies collapsed, and 
133 limited companies went into liquidation. The Melbourne financial crisis 
was a contributing factor in the Australian economic depression of the 
1890s and the Australian banking crisis of 1893. The effects of the depression 
on the city were profound, with virtually no new construction until the 
late 1890s.[46][47] At the time of Australia's federation on 1 January 
1901, Melbourne became the seat of government of the federation. The first 
federal parliament was convened on 9 May 1901 in the Royal Exhibition Building, 
subsequently moving to the Victorian Parliament House where it was located 
until 1927, when it was moved to Canberra. The Governor-General of Australia 
resided at Government House in Melbourne until 1930 and many major national 
institutions remained in Melbourne well into the twentieth century.[48] 
In the immediate years after World War II, Melbourne expanded rapidly, 
its growth boosted by post-war immigration to Australia, primarily from 
Southern Europe and the Mediterranean.[49] While the "Paris End" of Collins 
Street began Melbourne's boutique shopping and open air cafe cultures,[50] 
the city centre was seen by many as stale—the dreary domain of office workers—something 
expressed by John Brack in his famous painting Collins St., 5 pm (1955).[51] 
Height limits in the Melbourne CBD were lifted in 1958, after the construction 
of ICI House, transforming the city's skyline with the introduction of 
skyscrapers. Suburban expansion then intensified, served by new indoor 
malls beginning with Chadstone Shopping Centre.[52] The post-war period 
also saw a major renewal of the CBD and St Kilda Road which significantly 
modernised the city.[53] New fire regulations and redevelopment saw most 
of the taller pre-war CBD buildings either demolished or partially retained 
through a policy of facadism. Many of the larger suburban mansions from 
the boom era were also either demolished or subdivided. To counter the 
trend towards low-density suburban residential growth, the government began 
a series of controversial public housing projects in the inner city by 
the Housing Commission of Victoria, which resulted in demolition of many 
neighbourhoods and a proliferation of high-rise towers.[54] In later years, 
with the rapid rise of motor vehicle ownership, the investment in freeway 
and highway developments greatly accelerated the outward suburban sprawl 
and declining inner city population. The Bolte government sought to rapidly 
accelerate the modernisation of Melbourne. Major road projects including 
the remodelling of St Kilda Junction, the widening of Hoddle Street and 
then the extensive 1969 Melbourne Transportation Plan changed the face 
of the city into a car-dominated environment.[55] Australia's financial 
and mining booms during 1969 and 1970 resulted in establishment of the 
headquarters of many major companies (BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto, among 
others) in the city. Nauru's then booming economy resulted in several ambitious 
investments in Melbourne, such as Nauru House.[56] Melbourne remained Australia's 
main business and financial centre until the late 1970s, when it began 
to lose this primacy to Sydney.[57] As the centre of Australia's "rust 
belt", Melbourne experienced an economic downturn between 1989 and 1992, 
following the collapse of several local financial institutions. In 1992, 
the newly elected Kennett government began a campaign to revive the economy 
with an aggressive development campaign of public works coupled with the 
promotion of the city as a tourist destination with a focus on major events 
and sports tourism.[58] During this period the Australian Grand Prix moved 
to Melbourne from Adelaide. Major projects included the construction of 
a new facility for the Melbourne Museum, Federation Square, the Melbourne 
Exhibition and Convention Centre, Crown Casino and the CityLink tollway. 
Other strategies included the privatisation of some of Melbourne's services, 
including power and public transport, and a reduction in funding to public 
services such as health, education and public transport infrastructure.[59] 
Since the mid-1990s, Melbourne has maintained significant population and 
employment growth. There has been substantial international investment 
in the city's industries and property market. Major inner-city urban renewal 
has occurred in areas such as Southbank, Port Melbourne, Melbourne Docklands 
and more recently, South Wharf. According to the Australian Bureau of Statistics, 
Melbourne sustained the highest population increase and economic growth 
rate of any Australian capital city in the three years ended June 2004.[60] 
These factors have led to population growth and further suburban expansion 
through the 2000s. From 2006, the growth of the city extended into "green 
wedges" and beyond the city's urban growth boundary. Predictions of the 
city's population reaching 5 million people pushed the state government 
to review the growth boundary in 2008 as part of its Melbourne @ Five Million 
strategy.[61] In 2009, Melbourne was less affected by the late-2000s financial 
crisis in comparison to other Australian cities. At this time, more new 
jobs were created in Melbourne than any other Australian city—almost as 
many as the next two fastest growing cities, Brisbane and Perth, combined,[62] 
and Melbourne's property market remained highly priced,[63] resulting in 
historically high property prices and widespread rent increases.[64] Melbourne 
is located in the south-eastern part of mainland Australia, within the 
state of Victoria. Geologically, it is built on the confluence of Quaternary 
lava flows to the west, Silurian mudstones to the east, and Holocene sand 
accumulation to the southeast along Port Phillip. The southeastern suburbs 
are situated on the Selwyn fault which transects Mount Martha and Cranbourne. 
Melbourne extends along the Yarra River towards the Yarra Valley and the 
Dandenong Ranges to the east. It extends northward through the undulating 
bushland valleys of the Yarra's tributaries—Moonee Ponds Creek (toward 
Tullamarine Airport), Merri Creek, Darebin Creek and Plenty River—to the 
outer suburban growth corridors of Craigieburn and Whittlesea. The city 
reaches south-east through Dandenong to the growth corridor of Pakenham 
towards West Gippsland, and southward through the Dandenong Creek valley, 
the Mornington Peninsula and the city of Frankston taking in the peaks 
of Olivers Hill, Mount Martha and Arthurs Seat, extending along the shores 
of Port Phillip as a single conurbation to reach the exclusive suburb of 
Portsea and Point Nepean. In the west, it extends along the Maribyrnong 
River and its tributaries north towards Sunbury and the foothills of the 
Macedon Ranges, and along the flat volcanic plain country towards Melton 
in the west, Werribee at the foothills of the You Yangs granite ridge south 
west of the CBD. The Little River, and the township of the same name, marks 
the border between Melbourne and neighbouring Geelong city. Melbourne's 
major bayside beaches are located in the various suburbs along the shores 
of Port Phillip Bay, in areas like Port Melbourne, Albert Park, St Kilda, 
Elwood, Brighton, Sandringham, Mentone, Frankston, Altona, Williamstown 
and Werribee South. The nearest surf beaches are located 85 kilometres 
(53 mi) south-east of the Melbourne CBD in the back-beaches of Rye, Sorrento 
and Portsea.[65][66] Melbourne has a temperate oceanic climate (Köppen 
climate classification Cfb)[67][68] and is well known for its changeable 
weather conditions. This is mainly due to Melbourne's location situated 
on the boundary of the very hot inland areas and the cool southern ocean. 
This temperature differential is most pronounced in the spring and summer 
months and can cause very strong cold fronts to form. These cold fronts 
can be responsible for all sorts of severe weather from gales to severe 
thunderstorms and hail, large temperature drops and heavy rain. Port Phillip 
is often warmer than the surrounding oceans and/or the land mass, particularly 
in spring and autumn; this can set up a "bay effect" similar to the "lake 
effect" seen in colder climates where showers are intensified leeward of 
the bay. Relatively narrow streams of heavy showers can often affect the 
same places (usually the eastern suburbs) for an extended period, while 
the rest of Melbourne and surrounds stays dry. Overall, Melbourne is, owing 
to the rain shadow of the Otway Ranges, nonetheless drier than average 
for southern Victoria. Within the city and surrounds, however, rainfall 
varies widely, from around 425 millimetres (17 in) at Little River to 1,250 
millimetres (49 in) on the eastern fringe at Gembrook. Melbourne receives 
48.6 clear days annually. Dewpoint temperatures in the summer range from 
9.5 °C (49.1 °F) to 11.7 °C (53.1 °F).[69] Melbourne is also prone to isolated 
convective showers forming when a cold pool crosses the state, especially 
if there is considerable daytime heating. These showers are often heavy 
and can contain hail and squalls and significant drops in temperature, 
but they pass through very quickly at times with a rapid clearing trend 
to sunny and relatively calm weather and the temperature rising back to 
what it was before the shower. This often occurs in the space of minutes 
and can be repeated many times in a day, giving Melbourne a reputation 
for having "four seasons in one day",[70] a phrase that is part of local 
popular culture and familiar to many visitors to the city.[71] The lowest 
temperature on record is −2.8 °C (27.0 °F), on 21 July 1869.[72] The highest 
temperature recorded in Melbourne city was 46.4 °C (115.5 °F), on 7 February 
2009.[73] While snow is occasionally seen at higher elevations in the outskirts 
of the city, it has not been recorded in the Central Business District 
since 1986.[74] Melbourne's air quality is generally good and has improved 
significantly since the 1980s.[76] Like many urban environments, the city 
faces significant environmental issues, many of them relating to the city's 
large urban footprint and urban sprawl and the demand for infrastructure 
and services. One such issue is water usage, drought and low rainfall. 
Drought in Victoria, low rainfalls and high temperatures deplete Melbourne 
water supplies and climate change may have a long-term impact on the water 
supplies of Melbourne.[77] In response to low water supplies and low rainfall 
due to drought, the government implemented water restrictions and a range 
of other options including: water recycling schemes for the city, incentives 
for household water tanks, greywater systems, water consumption awareness 
initiatives, and other water saving and reuse initiatives; also, in June 
2007, the Bracks Government announced that a $3.1 billion Wonthaggi desalination 
plant would be built on Victoria's south-east coast, capable of treating 
150 billion litres of water per year,[78] as well as a 70 km (43 mi) pipeline 
from the Goulburn area in Victoria's north to Melbourne and a new water 
pipeline linking Melbourne and Geelong. Both projects are being conducted 
under controversial Public-Private Partnerships and a multitude of independent 
reports have found that neither project is required to supply water to 
the city and that Sustainable Water Management is the best solution. In 
the meantime, the drought must be weathered.[79] In response to attribution 
of recent climate change, the City of Melbourne, in 2002, set a target 
to reduce carbon emissions to net zero by 2020[80] and Moreland City Council 
established the Zero Moreland program, however not all metropolitan municipalities 
have followed, with the City of Glen Eira notably deciding in 2009 not 
to become carbon neutral.[81] Melbourne has one of the largest urban footprints 
in the world due to its low density housing, resulting in a vast suburban 
sprawl, with a high level of car dependence and minimal public transport 
outside of inner areas.[82] Much of the vegetation within the city are 
non-native species, most of European origin, and in many cases plays host 
to invasive species and noxious weeds.[83] Significant introduced urban 
pests include the common myna,[84] feral pigeon,[85] brown rat,[86][87] 
European wasp,[88] common starling and red fox.[89] Many outlying suburbs, 
particularly towards the Yarra Valley and the hills to the north-east and 
east, have gone for extended periods without regenerative fires leading 
to a lack of saplings and undergrowth in urbanised native bushland. The 
Department of Sustainability and Environment partially addresses this problem 
by regularly burning off.[90][91] Several national parks have been designated 
around the urban area of Melbourne, including the Mornington Peninsula 
National Park, Port Phillip Heads Marine National Park and Point Nepean 
National Park in the south east, Organ Pipes National Park to the north 
and Dandenong Ranges National Park to the east. There are also a number 
of significant state parks just outside Melbourne.[92][93] Responsibility 
for regulating pollution falls under the jurisdiction of the EPA Victoria 
and several local councils. Air pollution, by world standards, is classified 
as being good. Summer and autumn are the worst times of year for atmospheric 
haze in the urban area.[94][95] Another recent environmental issue in Melbourne 
was the Victorian government project of channel deepening Melbourne Ports 
by dredging Port Phillip Bay—the Port Phillip Channel Deepening Project. 
It was subject to controversy and strict regulations among fears that beaches 
and marine wildlife could be affected by the disturbance of heavy metals 
and other industrial sediments.[66][96] Other major pollution problems 
in Melbourne include levels of bacteria including E. coli in the Yarra 
River and its tributaries caused by septic systems,[97] as well as litter. 
Up to 350,000 cigarette butts enter the storm water runoff every day.[98] 
Several programs are being implemented to minimise beach and river pollution.[66][99] 
In February 2010, The Transition Decade, an initiative to transition human 
society, economics and environment towards sustainability, was launched 
in Melbourne.[100] The Hoddle Grid (dimensions of 1 by 1⁄2 mile (1.61 by 
0.80 km)) forms the centre of Melbourne's central business district. The 
grid's southern edge fronts onto the Yarra River. Office, commercial and 
public developments in the adjoining districts of Southbank and Docklands 
have made these redeveloped areas into extensions of the CBD in all but 
name. The city centre has a reputation for its historic and prominent lanes 
and arcades (most notably Block Place and Royal Arcade) which contain a 
variety of shops and cafés[101] and are a byproduct of the city's layout.[102] 
Melbourne's CBD, compared with other Australian cities, has comparatively 
unrestricted height limits and as a result of waves of post-war development 
contains five of the six tallest buildings in Australia, the tallest of 
which is the Eureka Tower, situated in Southbank. It has an observation 
deck near the top from where you can see above all of Melbourne's structures.[103] 
The Rialto tower, the city's second tallest, remains the tallest building 
in the old CBD; its observation deck for visitors has recently closed.[104] 
The CBD and surrounds also contain many significant historic buildings 
such as the Royal Exhibition Building, the Melbourne Town Hall and Parliament 
House.[105][106] Although the area is described as the centre, it is not 
actually the demographic centre of Melbourne at all, due to an urban sprawl 
to the south east, the demographic centre being located at Glen Iris.[107] 
Melbourne is typical of Australian capital cities in that after the turn 
of the 20th century, it expanded with the underlying notion of a 'quarter 
acre home and garden' for every family, often referred to locally as the 
Australian Dream. This, coupled with the popularity of the private automobile 
after 1945, led to the auto-centric urban structure now present today in 
the middle and outer suburbs. Much of metropolitan Melbourne is accordingly 
characterised by low density sprawl, whilst its inner city areas feature 
predominantly medium-density, transit-oriented urban forms. The city centre, 
Docklands, St. Kilda Road and Southbank areas feature high-density forms. 
Melbourne is often referred to as Australia's garden city, and the state 
of Victoria was once known as the garden state.[94][108][109] There is 
an abundance of parks and gardens in Melbourne,[110] many close to the 
CBD with a variety of common and rare plant species amid landscaped vistas, 
pedestrian pathways and tree-lined avenues. Melbourne's parks are often 
considered the best public parks in all of Australia's major cities.[111] 
There are also many parks in the surrounding suburbs of Melbourne, such 
as in the municipalities of Stonnington, Boroondara and Port Phillip, south 
east of the central business district. The extensive area covered by urban 
Melbourne is formally divided into hundreds of suburbs (for addressing 
and postal purposes), and administered as local government areas[112] 31 
of which are located within the metropolitan area.[113] Melbourne has minimal 
public housing and high demand for rental housing, which is becoming unaffordable 
for more and more people.[114][115][116] Public housing is usually provided 
by the Housing Commission of Victoria, and operates within the framework 
of the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement, by which federal and state 
governments provide housing funding. Melbourne is experiencing high population 
growth, generating high demand for housing. This housing boom has increased 
house prices and rents, as well as the availability of all types of housing. 
Subdivision regularly occurs in the outer areas of Melbourne, with numerous 
developers offering house and land packages. However, after 10 years[when?] 
of planning policies to encourage medium-density and high-density development 
in existing areas with greater access to public transport and other services, 
Melbourne's middle and outer-ring suburbs have seen significant brownfields 
redevelopment.[117] Melbourne is an international cultural centre, with 
cultural endeavours spanning major events and festivals, drama, musicals, 
comedy, music, art, architecture, literature, film and television. The 
climate, waterfront location and nightlife make it one of the most vibrant 
destinations in Australia. For five years in a row (as of 2015[update]) 
it has held the top position in a survey by The Economist Intelligence 
Unit of the world's most liveable cities on the basis of a number of attributes 
which include its broad cultural offerings.[118] The city celebrates a 
wide variety of annual cultural events and festivals of all types, including 
Australia's largest free community festival—Moomba, the Melbourne International 
Arts Festival, Melbourne International Film Festival, Melbourne International 
Comedy Festival and the Melbourne Fringe Festival. The culture of the city 
is an important drawcard for tourists, of which just under two million 
international overnight visitors and 57.7 million domestic overnight visited 
during the year ending March 2014.[119] Melbourne's rich and diverse literary 
history was recognised in 2008 when it became the second UNESCO City of 
Literature. The State Library of Victoria is one of Australia's oldest 
cultural institutions and one of many public and university libraries across 
the city. Melbourne also has Australia's widest range of bookstores, as 
well the nation's largest publishing sector.[120] The city is home to significant 
writers' festivals, most notably the Melbourne Writers Festival. Several 
major literary prizes are open to local writers including the Melbourne 
Prize for Literature and the Victorian Premier's Literary Awards. Significant 
novels set in Melbourne include Fergus Hume's The Mystery of a Hansom Cab, 
Helen Garner's Monkey Grip and Christos Tsiolkas' The Slap. Notable writers 
and poets from Melbourne include Thomas Browne, C. J. Dennis, Germaine 
Greer and Peter Carey. Established in 1861, the National Gallery of Victoria 
is Australia's oldest public art museum. The Heidelberg School, also known 
as Australian Impressionism, grew out of Melbourne's rural suburbs in the 
1880s. The city is also home to the Australian Centre for Contemporary 
Art. Melbourne is regarded as one of the world's major street art centres;[121] 
readers of Lonely Planet voted the city's street art and laneways as Australia's 
most popular cultural attraction.[122] Melbourne's live performance institutions 
date from the foundation of the city, with the first theatre, the Pavilion, 
opening in 1841. The city's East End Theatre District includes theatres 
that similarly date from 1850s to the 1920s, including the Princess Theatre, 
Regent Theatre, Her Majesty's Theatre, Forum Theatre, Comedy Theatre, and 
the Athenaeum Theatre. The Melbourne Arts Precinct in Southbank is home 
to Arts Centre Melbourne, which includes the State Theatre, Hamer Hall, 
the Playhouse and the Fairfax Studio. The Melbourne Recital Centre and 
Southbank Theatre (principal home of the MTC, which includes the Sumner 
and Lawler performance spaces)[123] are also located in Southbank. The 
Sidney Myer Music Bowl, which dates from 1955, is located in the gardens 
of Kings Domain; and the Palais Theatre is a feature of the St Kilda Beach 
foreshore. The national ballet company, the Australian Ballet is based 
in Melbourne, as are the state based companies, the Melbourne Symphony 
Orchestra, the Melbourne Theatre Company (MTC), and the Victorian Opera. 
Melbourne is also the second home of the national Opera Australia after 
it merger with the defunct Victoria State Opera in 1996. The Story of the 
Kelly Gang, the world's first feature film, was shot in Melbourne in 1906.[124] 
Melbourne filmmakers continued to produce bushranger films until they were 
banned by Victorian politicians in 1912 for the perceived promotion of 
crime, thus contributing to the decline of one of the silent film era's 
most productive industries.[124] A notable film shot and set in Melbourne 
during Australia's cinematic lull is On the Beach (1959). The 1970s saw 
the rise of the Australian New Wave and its Ozploitation offshoot, instigated 
by Melbourne-based productions Stork and Alvin Purple. Picnic at Hanging 
Rock and Mad Max, both shot in and around Melbourne, achieved worldwide 
acclaim. 2004 saw the construction of Melbourne's largest film and television 
studio complex, Docklands Studios Melbourne, which has hosted many domestic 
productions, as well as international features.[125] Melbourne is also 
home to the headquarters of Village Roadshow Pictures, Australia's largest 
film production company. Famous modern day actors from Melbourne include 
Cate Blanchett, Rachel Griffiths, Guy Pearce, Geoffrey Rush and Eric Bana. 
As of 2013[update], Melbourne is home to at least 460 music venues, and 
its live music industry contributes A$1 billion per annum to the Victorian 
economy.[126][127] Bands that have emerged from the Melbourne music scene 
include Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds, Crowded House, TISM, The Living End, 
Augie March, Men at Work and The Temper Trap. Melbourne was named as a 
top music city in the world by IFPI.com in a white paper it released in 
conjunction with Music Canada. The city is recognised for its mix of modern 
architecture which intersects with an extensive range of nineteenth and 
early twentieth century buildings.[128] Some of the most architecturally 
noteworthy historic buildings include the World Heritage Site-listed Royal 
Exhibition Building, constructed over a two-year period for the Melbourne 
International Exhibition in 1880, A.C. Goode House, a Neo Gothic building 
located on Collins Street designed by Wright, Reed & Beaver (1891), William 
Pitt's Venetian Gothic style Old Stock Exchange (1888), William Wardell's 
Gothic Bank (1883) which features some of Melbourne's finest interiors, 
the incomplete Parliament House, St Paul's Cathedral (1891) and Flinders 
Street Station (1909), which was the busiest commuter railway station in 
the world in the mid-1920s.[129] The city also features the Shrine of Remembrance, 
which was built as a memorial to the men and women of Victoria who served 
in World War I and is now a memorial to all Australians who have served 
in war. The now demolished Queen Anne style APA Australian Building (1889), 
the world's 3rd tallest building at the time of completion,[130] is said 
to have anticipated the skyscraper race in New York City and Chicago.[105] 
In 2012, the city contained a total of 594 high-rise buildings, with 8 
under construction, 71 planned and 39 at proposal stage[131] making the 
city's skyline the second largest in Australia. The CBD is dominated by 
modern office buildings including the Rialto Towers (1986), built on the 
site of several grand classical Victorian buildings, two of which — the 
Rialto Building (1889) designed by William Pitt and the Winfield Building 
(1890) designed by Charles D'Ebro and Richard Speight — still remain today 
and more recently high-rise apartment buildings including Eureka Tower 
(2006), which is listed as the 13th tallest residential building in the 
world in January 2014.[132] Residential architecture is not defined by 
a single architectural style, but rather an eclectic mix of houses, townhouses, 
condominiums, and apartment buildings in the metropolitan area (particularly 
in areas of urban sprawl). Free standing dwellings with relatively large 
gardens are perhaps the most common type of housing outside inner city 
Melbourne. Victorian terrace housing, townhouses and historic Italianate, 
Tudor revival and Neo-Georgian mansions are all common in neighbourhoods 
such as Toorak. Melbourne is notable as the host city for the 1956 Summer 
Olympic Games (the first Olympic Games held in the southern hemisphere 
and Oceania, with all previous games held in Europe and the United States),.[133] 
Melbourne is so far the southernmost city to host the Olympic Games. Melbourne 
also hosted the 2006 Commonwealth Games. The city is home to three major 
annual international sporting events: the Australian Open (one of the four 
Grand Slam tennis tournaments); the Melbourne Cup (horse racing); and the 
Australian Grand Prix (Formula One). Also, the Australian Masters golf 
tournament is held at Melbourne since 1979, having been co-sanctioned by 
the European Tour from 2006 to 2009. Melbourne was proclaimed the "World's 
Ultimate Sports City", in 2006, 2008 and 2010.[134] The city is home to 
the National Sports Museum, which until 2003 was located outside the members 
pavilion at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. It reopened in 2008 in the Olympic 
Stand.[135] Australian rules football and cricket are the most popular 
sports in Melbourne. It is considered the spiritual home of the two sports 
in Australia. The first official Test cricket match was played at the Melbourne 
Cricket Ground in March 1877. The origins of Australian rules football 
can be traced to matches played next to the MCG in 1858. The Australian 
Football League is headquartered at Docklands Stadium. Nine of the League's 
teams are based in the Melbourne metropolitan area: Carlton, Collingwood, 
Essendon, Hawthorn, Melbourne, North Melbourne, Richmond, St Kilda, and 
Western Bulldogs. Up to five AFL matches are played each week in Melbourne, 
attracting an average 40,000 people per game.[136] Additionally, the city 
annually hosts the AFL Grand Final. The city is home to many professional 
franchises/teams in national competitions including: cricket clubs Melbourne 
Stars, Melbourne Renegades and Victorian Bushrangers, which play in the 
Big Bash League and other domestic cricket competitions; soccer clubs Melbourne 
Victory and Melbourne City FC (known until June 2014 as Melbourne Heart), 
which play in the A-League competition. Rugby league club Melbourne Storm[137] 
which plays in the NRL competition; rugby union clubs Melbourne Rebels 
and Melbourne Rising, which play in the Super Rugby and National Rugby 
Championship competitions respectively; netball club Melbourne Vixens, 
which plays in the trans-Tasman trophy ANZ Championship; basketball club 
Melbourne United, which plays in the NBL competition; Bulleen Boomers and 
Dandenong Rangers, which play in the WNBL; ice hockey teams Melbourne Ice 
and Melbourne Mustangs, who play in the Australian Ice Hockey League; and 
baseball club Melbourne Aces, which plays in the Australian Baseball League. 
Rowing is also a large part of Melbourne's sporting identity, with a number 
of clubs located on the Yarra River, out of which many Australian Olympians 
trained. The city previously held the nation's premier long distance swimming 
event the annual Race to Prince's Bridge, in the Yarra River. In November 
2008, it was announced that the Victorian Major Events Company had informed 
the Australian Olympic Committee that Melbourne was considering making 
bids for either the 2024 or 2028 Summer Olympics.[138] Melbourne has a 
highly diversified economy with particular strengths in finance, manufacturing, 
research, IT, education, logistics, transportation and tourism. Melbourne 
houses the headquarters for many of Australia's largest corporations, including 
five of the ten largest in the country (based on revenue), and four of 
the largest six in the country (based on market capitalisation)[140] (ANZ, 
BHP Billiton (the world's largest mining company), the National Australia 
Bank and Telstra), as well as such representative bodies and think tanks 
as the Business Council of Australia and the Australian Council of Trade 
Unions. Melbourne's suburbs also have the Head Offices of Wesfarmers companies 
Coles (including Liquorland), Bunnings, Target, K-Mart & Officeworks. The 
city is home to Australia's largest and busiest seaport which handles more 
than $75 billion in trade every year and 39% of the nation's container 
trade.[109][141][142] Melbourne Airport provides an entry point for national 
and international visitors, and is Australia's second busiest airport.[143] 
Melbourne is also an important financial centre. Two of the big four banks, 
NAB and ANZ, are headquartered in Melbourne. The city has carved out a 
niche as Australia's leading centre for superannuation (pension) funds, 
with 40% of the total, and 65% of industry super-funds including the $109 billion-dollar 
Federal Government Future Fund. The city was rated 41st within the top 
50 financial cities as surveyed by the MasterCard Worldwide Centers of 
Commerce Index (2008),[144] second only to Sydney (12th) in Australia. 
Melbourne is Australia's second-largest industrial centre.[145] It is the 
Australian base for a number of significant manufacturers including Boeing, 
truck-makers Kenworth and Iveco, Cadbury as well as Bombardier Transportation 
and Jayco, among many others. It is also home to a wide variety of other 
manufacturers, ranging from petrochemicals and pharmaceuticals to fashion 
garments, paper manufacturing and food processing.[146] The south-eastern 
suburb of Scoresby is home to Nintendo's Australian headquarters. The city 
also boasts a research and development hub for Ford Australia, as well 
as a global design studio and technical centre for General Motors and Toyota 
respectively. CSL, one of the world's top five biotech companies, and Sigma 
Pharmaceuticals have their headquarters in Melbourne. The two are the largest 
listed Australian pharmaceutical companies.[148] Melbourne has an important 
ICT industry that employs over 60,000 people (one third of Australia's 
ICT workforce), with a turnover of $19.8 billion and export revenues of 
$615 million. In addition, tourism also plays an important role in Melbourne's 
economy, with about 7.6 million domestic visitors and 1.88 million international 
visitors in 2004.[149] In 2008, Melbourne overtook Sydney with the amount 
of money that domestic tourists spent in the city,[150] accounting for 
around $15.8 billion annually.[151] Melbourne has been attracting an increasing 
share of domestic and international conference markets. Construction began 
in February 2006 of a $1 billion 5000-seat international convention centre, 
Hilton Hotel and commercial precinct adjacent to the Melbourne Exhibition 
and Convention Centre to link development along the Yarra River with the 
Southbank precinct and multibillion-dollar Docklands redevelopment.[152] 
The Economist Intelligence Unit ranks Melbourne as the fourth most expensive 
city in the world to live in according to its worldwide cost of living 
index in 2013.[153] The most visited attractions are: Federation Square, 
Queen Victoria Market, Crown Casino, Southbank, Melbourne Zoo, Melbourne 
Aquarium, Docklands, National Gallery of Victoria, Melbourne Museum, Melbourne 
Observation Deck, Arts Centre Melbourne, and the Melbourne Cricket Ground.[154] 
In Greater Melbourne (Greater Capital City Statistical Areas), 63.3% of 
residents were born in Australia. The other most common countries of birth 
were the United Kingdom (3.4%), India (2.7%), China (excludes SARs and 
Taiwan) (2.3%), Italy (1.7%) and New Zealand (1.7%). In 2011 the most common 
cited ancestries in Greater Melbourne (Greater Capital City Statistical 
Areas) were English (21.1%), Australian (20.7%), Irish (6.9%), Scottish 
(5.7%), and Italian (5.5%).[155] Melbourne has the largest Greek-speaking 
population outside of Europe, a population comparable to some larger Greek 
cities like Larissa and Volos.[156] Thessaloniki is Melbourne's Greek sister 
city. The Vietnamese surname Nguyen is the second most common in Melbourne's 
phone book after Smith.[157] The city also features substantial Indian, 
Sri Lankan, and Malaysian-born communities, in addition to recent South 
African and Sudanese influxes. The cultural diversity is reflected in the 
city's restaurants that serve international cuisines. Over two-thirds of 
Melburnians speak only English at home (68.1%). Chinese (mainly Cantonese 
and Mandarin) is the second-most-common language spoken at home (3.6%), 
with Greek third, Italian fourth and Vietnamese fifth, each with more than 
100,000 speakers.[159] Although Victoria's net interstate migration has 
fluctuated, the population of the Melbourne statistical division has grown 
by about 70,000 people a year since 2005. Melbourne has now attracted the 
largest proportion of international overseas immigrants (48,000) finding 
it outpacing Sydney's international migrant intake on percentage, along 
with having strong interstate migration from Sydney and other capitals 
due to more affordable housing and cost of living.[160] In recent years, 
Melton, Wyndham and Casey, part of the Melbourne statistical division, 
have recorded the highest growth rate of all local government areas in 
Australia. Melbourne could overtake Sydney in population by 2028,[161] 
The ABS has projected in two scenarios that Sydney will remain larger than 
Melbourne beyond 2056, albeit by a margin of less than 3% compared to a 
margin of 12% today. Melbourne's population could overtake that of Sydney 
by 2037[162] or 2039, according to the first scenario projected by the 
ABS; primarily due to larger levels of internal migration losses assumed 
for Sydney.[163] Another study claims that Melbourne will surpass Sydney 
in population by 2040.[164] After a trend of declining population density 
since World War II, the city has seen increased density in the inner and 
western suburbs, aided in part by Victorian Government planning, such as 
Postcode 3000 and Melbourne 2030 which have aimed to curtail urban sprawl.[165][166] 
According to the Australian Bureau of Statistics as of June 2013, inner 
city Melbourne had the highest population density with 12,400 people per 
km2. Surrounding inner city suburbs experienced an increase in population 
density between 2012 and 2013; Carlton (9,000 people per km2) and Fitzroy 
(7,900).[167] Some of Australia's most prominent and well known schools 
are based in Melbourne. Of the top twenty high schools in Australia according 
to the Better Education ranking, six are located in Melbourne.[168] There 
has also been a rapid increase in the number of International students 
studying in the city. Furthermore, Melbourne was ranked the world's fourth 
top university city in 2008 after London, Boston and Tokyo in a poll commissioned 
by the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology.[169] Melbourne is the home 
of seven public universities: the University of Melbourne, Monash University, 
Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT University), Deakin University, 
La Trobe University, Swinburne University of Technology and Victoria University. 
Melbourne universities have campuses all over Australia and some internationally. 
Swinburne University has campuses in Malaysia, while Monash has a research 
centre based in Prato, Italy. The University of Melbourne, the second oldest 
university in Australia,[170] was ranked first among Australian universities 
in the 2010 THES international rankings.[171] The 2012–2013 Times Higher 
Education Supplement ranked the University of Melbourne as the 28th (30th 
by QS ranking) best university in the world. Monash University was ranked 
as the 99th (60th by QS ranking) best university in the world. Both universities 
are members of the Group of Eight, a coalition of leading Australian tertiary 
institutions offering comprehensive and leading education.[172] RMIT University 
was also ranked among the top 51–100 universities in the world in the subjects 
of: accounting, Business and Management, communication and media studies, 
computer science and information systems.[173] The Swinburne University 
of Technology, based in the inner city Melbourne suburb of Hawthorn is 
ranked 76–100 in the world for Physics by the Academic Ranking of World 
Universities making Swinburne the only Australian university outside the 
Group of Eight to achieve a top 100 rating in a science discipline. Deakin 
University maintains two major campuses in Melbourne and Geelong, and is 
the third largest university in Victoria. In recent years, the number of 
international students at Melbourne's universities has risen rapidly, a 
result of an increasing number of places being made available to full fee 
paying students.[174] Education in Melbourne is overseen by the Victorian 
Department of Education and Early Childhood Development (DEECD), whose 
role is to 'provide policy and planning advice for the delivery of education'.[175] 
Melbourne is served by twenty-eight digital free-to-air television channels: 
Three daily newspapers serve Melbourne: the Herald Sun (tabloid), The Age 
(formerly broadsheet, now compact) and The Australian (national broadsheet). 
Six free-to-air television stations service Greater Melbourne and Geelong: 
ABC Victoria, (ABV), SBS Victoria (SBS), Seven Melbourne (HSV), Nine Melbourne 
(GTV), Ten Melbourne (ATV), C31 Melbourne (MGV) – community television. 
Each station (excluding C31) broadcasts a primary channel and several multichannels. 
C31 is only broadcast from the transmitters at Mount Dandenong and South 
Yarra. Hybrid digital/print media companies such as Broadsheet and ThreeThousand 
are based in and primarily serve Melbourne. Television shows are produced 
in Melbourne, most notably Neighbours, Kath & Kim, Winners and Losers, 
Offspring, Underbelly , House Husbands, Wentworth and Miss Fisher's Murder 
Mysteries, along with national news-based programs such as The Project, 
Insiders and ABC News Breakfast. Melbourne is also known as the game show 
capital of Australia; productions such as Million Dollar Minute, The Chase 
Australia, Millionaire Hot Seat and Family Feud are all based in Melbourne. 
Reality television productions such as Dancing with the Stars, MasterChef, 
The Block and The Real Housewives of Melbourne are all filmed in and around 
Melbourne. Pay television in Melbourne is largely delivered through cable 
and satellite services. Foxtel and Optus are the main pay television providers. 
Sky News and Fox Sports both have studio facilities based in Melbourne. 
A long list of AM and FM radio stations broadcast to greater Melbourne. 
These include "public" (i.e., state-owned ABC and SBS) and community stations. 
Many commercial stations are networked-owned: DMG has Nova 100 and Smooth; 
ARN controls Gold 104.3 and KIIS 101.1; and Southern Cross Austereo runs 
both Fox and Triple M. Stations from towns in regional Victoria may also 
be heard (e.g. 93.9 Bay FM, Geelong). Youth alternatives include ABC Triple 
J and youth run SYN. Triple J, and similarly PBS and Triple R, strive to 
play under represented music. JOY 94.9 caters for gay, lesbian, bisexual 
and transgender audiences. For fans of classical music there are 3MBS and 
ABC Classic FM. Light FM is a contemporary Christian station. AM stations 
include ABC: 774, Radio National, and News Radio; also Fairfax affiliates 
3AW (talk) and Magic (easy listening). For sport fans and enthusiasts there 
is SEN 1116. Melbourne has many community run stations that serve alternative 
interests, such as 3CR and 3KND (Indigenous). Many suburbs have low powered 
community run stations serving local audiences.[176] Melbourne has a wide 
range of religious faiths, the most widely held of which is Christianity. 
This is signified by the city's two large cathedrals—St Patrick's (Roman 
Catholic), and St Paul's (Anglican). Both were built in the Victorian era 
and are of considerable heritage significance as major landmarks of the 
city.[177] According to the 2011 Census, the largest responses on religious 
belief in Melbourne were Roman Catholic (27.2%), no religion (23.5%), Anglican 
(10.8%), Eastern Orthodox (5.5%), Buddhist (4.0%), Muslim (3.5%), Jewish 
(2.5%) and Hindu (2.0%).[159][178] Nearly 150,000 Muslims live in Melbourne.[179] 
Muslim religious life in Melbourne is centred on more than 25 mosques and 
a large number of prayer rooms at university campuses, workplaces and other 
venues.[180] As of 2000[update], Melbourne had the largest population of 
Polish Jews in Australia. The city was also home to the largest number 
of Holocaust survivors of any Australian city,[181] indeed the highest 
per capita outside Israel itself.[182] Reflecting this vibrant and growing 
community, Melbourne has a plethora of Jewish cultural, religious and educational 
institutions, including over 40 synagogues and 7 full-time parochial day 
schools,[183] along with a local Jewish newspaper.[184] The governance 
of Melbourne is split between the government of Victoria and the 26 cities 
and five shires which comprise the metropolitan area. There is no ceremonial 
or political head of Melbourne; however, the Lord Mayor of the City of 
Melbourne often fulfils such a role as a first amongst equals,[185] particularly 
when interstate or overseas. The local councils are responsible for providing 
the functions set out in the Local Government Act 1989[186] such as urban 
planning and waste management. Most other government services are provided 
or regulated by the Victorian state government, which governs from Parliament 
House in Spring Street. These include services which are associated with 
local government in other countries and include public transport, main 
roads, traffic control, policing, education above preschool level, health 
and planning of major infrastructure projects. The state government retains 
the right to override certain local government decisions, including urban 
planning, and Melburnian issues often feature prominently in state election. 
In 2012, Mercer Consulting ranked Melbourne's infrastructure 17th in the 
world, behind only one other Australian city, Sydney, which ranked 10th 
in the world.[187] The Government of Victoria's Department of Health and 
Human Services oversees about 30 public hospitals in the Melbourne metropolitan 
region, and 13 health services organisations.[188] There are many major 
medical, neuroscience and biotechnology research institutions located in 
Melbourne: St. Vincent's Institute of Medical Research, Australian Stem 
Cell Centre, the Burnet Institute, Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, 
Victorian Institute of Chemical Sciences, Brain Research Institute, Peter 
MacCallum Cancer Centre, the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical 
Research, and the Melbourne Neuropsychiatry Centre. Other institutions 
include the Howard Florey Institute, the Murdoch Children's Research Institute, 
Baker IDI Heart and Diabetes Institute and the Australian Synchrotron.[189] 
Many of these institutions are associated with and are located near universities. 
Among Australian capital cities, Melbourne ties with Canberra in first 
place for the highest male life expectancy (80.0 years) and ranks second 
behind Perth in female life expectancy (84.1 years).[190] Like many Australian 
cities, Melbourne has a high dependency on the automobile for transport,[191] 
particularly in the outer suburban areas where the largest number of cars 
are bought,[192] with a total of 3.6 million private vehicles using 22,320 km 
(13,870 mi) of road, and one of the highest lengths of road per capita 
in the world.[191] The early 20th century saw an increase in popularity 
of automobiles, resulting in large-scale suburban expansion.[193] By the 
mid 1950s there was just under 200 passenger vehicles per 1000 people by 
2013 there was 600 passenger vehicles per 1000 people.[194] Today it has 
an extensive network of freeways and arterial roadways used by private 
vehicles including freight as well as public transport systems including 
bus and taxis. Major highways feeding into the city include the Eastern 
Freeway, Monash Freeway and West Gate Freeway (which spans the large West 
Gate Bridge), whilst other freeways circumnavigate the city or lead to 
other major cities, including CityLink (which spans the large Bolte Bridge), 
Eastlink, the Western Ring Road, Calder Freeway, Tullamarine Freeway (main 
airport link) and the Hume Freeway which links Melbourne and Sydney.[195] 
Melbourne has an integrated public transport system based around extensive 
train, tram, bus and taxi systems. Flinders Street Station was the world's 
busiest passenger station in 1927 and Melbourne's tram network overtook 
Sydney's to become the world's largest in the 1940s, at which time 25% 
of travellers used public transport but by 2003 it had declined to just 
7.6%.[196] The public transport system was privatised in 1999, symbolising 
the peak of the decline.[197] Despite privatisation and successive governments 
persisting with auto-centric urban development into the 21st century,[198] 
there have since been large increases in public transport patronage, with 
the mode share for commuters increasing to 14.8% and 8.4% of all trips.[199] 
A target of 20% public transport mode share for Melbourne by 2020 was set 
by the state government in 2006.[200] Since 2006 public transport patronage 
has grown by over 20%.[200] The Melbourne rail network has its origins 
in privately built lines from the 1850s gold rush era, and today the suburban 
network consists of 209 suburban stations on 16 lines which radiate from 
the City Loop, a partially underground metro section of the network beneath 
the Central Business District (Hoddle Grid). Flinders Street Station is 
Melbourne's busiest railway station, and was the world's busiest passenger 
station in 1926. It remains a prominent Melbourne landmark and meeting 
place.[129] The city has rail connections with regional Victorian cities, 
as well as direct interstate rail services to Sydney and Adelaide and beyond 
which depart from Melbourne's other major rail terminus, Southern Cross 
Station in Spencer Street. In the 2013–2014 financial year, the Melbourne 
rail network recorded 232.0 million passenger trips, the highest in its 
history.[201] Many rail lines, along with dedicated lines and rail yards 
are also used for freight. The Overland to Adelaide departs Southern Cross 
twice a week, while the XPT to Sydney departs twice a day. Melbourne has 
the largest tram network in the world[20][203] which had its origins in 
the city's 1880s land boom. In 2013–2014, 176.9 million passenger trips 
were made by tram.[201] Melbourne's is Australia's only tram network to 
comprise more than a single line and consists of 250 km (155.3 mi) of track, 
487 trams, 25 routes, and 1,763 tram stops.[204] Around 80 per cent of 
Melbourne's tram network shares road space with other vehicles, while the 
rest of the network is separated or are light rail routes.[204] Melbourne's 
trams are recognised as iconic cultural assets and a tourist attraction. 
Heritage trams operate on the free City Circle route, intended for visitors 
to Melbourne, and heritage restaurant trams travel through the city and 
surrounding areas during the evening.[205] Melbourne is currently building 
50 new E Class trams with some already in service in 2014. The E Class 
trams are about 30 metres long and are superior to the C2 class tram of 
similar length. Melbourne's bus network consists of almost 300 routes which 
mainly service the outer suburbs and fill the gaps in the network between 
rail and tram services.[205][206] 127.6 million passenger trips were recorded 
on Melbourne's buses in 2013–2014, an increase of 10.2 percent on the previous 
year.[201] Ship transport is an important component of Melbourne's transport 
system. The Port of Melbourne is Australia's largest container and general 
cargo port and also its busiest. The port handled two million shipping 
containers in a 12-month period during 2007, making it one of the top five 
ports in the Southern Hemisphere.[141] Station Pier on Port Phillip Bay 
is the main passenger ship terminal with cruise ships and the Spirit of 
Tasmania ferries which cross Bass Strait to Tasmania docking there.[207] 
Ferries and water taxis run from berths along the Yarra River as far upstream 
as South Yarra and across Port Phillip Bay. Melbourne has four airports. 
Melbourne Airport, at Tullamarine, is the city's main international and 
domestic gateway and second busiest in Australia. The airport is home base 
for passenger airlines Jetstar Airways and Tiger Airways Australia and 
cargo airlines Australian air Express and Toll Priority; and is a major 
hub for Qantas and Virgin Australia. Avalon Airport, located between Melbourne 
and Geelong, is a secondary hub of Jetstar. It is also used as a freight 
and maintenance facility. Buses and taxis are the only forms of public 
transport to and from the city's main airports. Air Ambulance facilities 
are available for domestic and international transportation of patients.[208] 
Melbourne also has a significant general aviation airport, Moorabbin Airport 
in the city's south east that also handles a small number of passenger 
flights. Essendon Airport, which was once the city's main airport also 
handles passenger flights, general aviation and some cargo flights.[209] 
The city also has a bicycle sharing system. It was established in 2010[210] 
and uses a network of marked road lanes and segregated cycle facilities. 
Water storage and supply for Melbourne is managed by Melbourne Water, which 
is owned by the Victorian Government. The organisation is also responsible 
for management of sewerage and the major water catchments in the region 
as well as the Wonthaggi desalination plant and North–South Pipeline. Water 
is stored in a series of reservoirs located within and outside the Greater 
Melbourne area. The largest dam, the Thomson River Dam, located in the 
Victorian Alps, is capable of holding around 60% of Melbourne's water capacity,[211] 
while smaller dams such as the Upper Yarra Dam, Yan Yean Reservoir, and 
the Cardinia Reservoir carry secondary supplies. Gas is provided by three 
distribution companies: Electricity is provided by five distribution companies: 
Numerous telecommunications companies provide Melbourne with terrestrial 
and mobile telecommunications services and wireless internet services Although 
Melbourne's crime rate dropped 6.3% in 2014, it still has Victoria's worst 
crime rate with over 26,000 offences per 100,000 people.[212] Melbourne 
has six international sister cities.[213] According to the City of Melbourne 
council, "the city as a whole has been nourished by their influence, which 
extends from educational, cultural and sporting exchanges to unparalleled 
business networking opportunities."[214][215][216] The recognised cities 
are: National and ACT Canberra NSW Sydney NT Darwin QLD Brisbane SA Adelaide 
