Mellon Park is a park in the Shadyside and Point Breeze neighborhoods of 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, straddling both sides of Fifth Avenue, from approximately 
Shady Avenue to Penn Avenue, the western corner abutting Pittsburgh Center 
for the Arts building. The park is home to the Walled Garden, and holds 
events throughout the year. It is also home to several recreational facilities. 
A number of public buses serve the area. The park is on the list of landmarks 
recognized by the Pittsburgh History and Landmarks Foundation (PHLF). The 
park was established in 1943, on the grounds of the former estate of Richard 
B. Mellon. His was the largest mansion in Pittsburgh. The mansion was razed 
by Italian immigrants from New Kensington, PA under the direction of Monsignor 
Nicola Fusco. These industrious men then built the monumental Mount St. 
Peter Church in New Kensington which still stands and functions to this 
day from the materials of the Mellon Mansion. The gardens were originally 
designed in 1912 by Alden and Harlow. Several other architects added their 
own touch to the landscape including the Olmsted Brothers and some seventeen 
years after the garden began, Vitale and Geiffert. After Mellon's sixty-room 
home was brought down during World War II, most of the garden still remained 
and was transformed into a city park known now as Mellon Park. The park 
also contains the Phipps Garden Center and Pittsburgh Center for the Arts.[1] 
The Walled Garden is surrounded by walls of brick and limestone and one 
of Gothic design. The garden's fourth wall was part of the Mellon mansion 
before its demolition in the 1940s. A fountain stands between the garden 
and the rest of the park. Vitale and Geiffert were behind the planning 
of this garden. The Mellon Park Project wanted to create a memorial in 
memory of Ann Katherine Seamans, who frequented the Walled Garden repeatedly 
after being introduced to it in kindergarten. Janet Zweig, an artist chosen 
by the project team, turned the floor of the garden into an exact replica 
of the sky in Pittsburgh on the day Ann was born.[2] There are 150 stars 
and each is a light in the ground and includes an inscription about it. 
It is possible to sponsor a star and make a donation.[3] LaQuatra Bonci 
Associates was responsible for the planning and supervising of the garden's 
redemption. The park was reopened on June 12, 2010.[4] Any form of event 
can potentially take place in Mellon Park by permission from the City of 
Pittsburgh Department of Public Works.[5] One event that has taken place 
annually since 1969 is A Fair in the Park put on by the Craftsmen's Guild 
of Pittsburgh in the month of September. This is a contemporary craft festival 
with a small concert. There is an area just for children. No admission 
fee is charged.[6] The Mellon Park Tennis Center is a year-round facility 
that offers classes for younger children ages 4–7 and other age groups 
up to adults.[7] Along with the tennis courts Mellon Park includes a playground, 
basketball courts, and baseball fields.[8] Coordinates: 40°27′7.47″N 79°55′4.99″W﻿ 
