Memorial Stadium was a sports stadium in Baltimore, Maryland, that formerly 
stood on 33rd Street (aka 33rd Street Boulevard or renamed "Babe Ruth Plaza") 
on an oversized block (officially designated as Venable Park, a former 
city park from the 1920s) also bounded by Ellerslie Avenue (west), 36th 
Street (north), and Ednor Road (east). Two different stadiums were located 
here, a 1922 version known as "Baltimore Stadium", or "Municipal Stadium", 
or sometimes 'Venable Stadium', and, for a time, "Babe Ruth Stadium" in 
reference to the then-recently deceased Baltimore native. The rebuilt multi-sport 
stadium, when reconstruction (expansion to an upper deck) was completed 
in the summer of 1954, would become known as "Memorial Stadium". The stadium 
was also known as "The Old Gray Lady of 33rd Street", and also (for Colts 
games) as "The World's Largest Outdoor Insane Asylum."[4] This pair of 
structures hosted the following teams: Memorial Stadium started out in 
life as Municipal Stadium, also known as Baltimore Stadium, and as Venable 
Stadium. Designed by Pleasants Pennington and Albert W. Lewis, it was built 
in 1922 over a six-month period at the urging of the Mayor, William F. 
Broening (1870–1953, served 1919–1923, 1927–1931), in a previously undeveloped 
area just north beyond the City's iconic rows of rowhouses where they had 
reached by the 1920s and among large 19th Century country estates of the 
wealthy in the northeastern wedge of the City. Constructed in the former 
Venable Park, established in the early 20th Century, the Stadium was operated 
by the City's Board of Park Commissioners on behalf of the Baltimore City 
Department of Recreation and Parks. It was primarily a football stadium, 
a large horseshoe with an earthen-mound exterior and its open end with 
a large stone gateway of a Greek/Roman columnade and porticoes on the open-faced 
south side facing the new 33rd Street boulevard/parkway which had just 
recently been cut through east to west. In its early years it hosted various 
public and private high school and college-level games, including the annual 
"City – Poly Game" on the regular Thanksgiving Day "double-header where 
the "Collegians" (later known as the "Black Knights" in reference to their 
iconic "Castle on the Hill") of Baltimore City College opposed its rival 
Baltimore Polytechnic Institute "Engineers" (since 1889), along with the 
Roman Catholic high schools' "Calvert Hall – Loyola" Game pitting the Cardinals 
of Calvert Hall College against Loyola High School at Blakefield's Dons 
before crowds of school students, parents, alumni and the city's sports 
fans numbering 30,000. Also occasional home games for the University of 
Maryland at College Park's "Terrapins" football and the home team favorites 
United States Naval Academy (at Annapolis) "Midshipmen" versus the United 
States Military Academy at West Point's "Cadets" (also known later as the 
"Black Knights") in several Army-Navy Games, attracting a national audience 
and media coverage. In mid-summer 1944 it was pressed into service as a 
baseball park by the Baltimore Orioles of the International League, when 
their previous long-time home, "Oriole Park" (the fifth to hold the name, 
and the last to do so until the current incarnation opened in 1992) on 
the northwest corner at Greenmount Avenue and 29th Street in the Waverly 
neighborhood, to the southwest, was destroyed by a late-night fire probably 
caused by stored fireworks in July 1944. The minor league Orioles rose 
from the ashes, in heroic fashion, going on to win the International League 
championship that year, and also the Junior World Series over the Louisville 
Colonels of the American Association. The large post-season crowds at Municipal 
Stadium, which would not have been possible at Oriole Park, and which easily 
surpassed the attendance at major league baseball's own World Series that 
year, caught the attention of the Major Leagues and their team owners, 
and Baltimore suddenly became a viable option for teams looking to move. 
It was also known for a time as "Babe Ruth Stadium", after the then-recently 
deceased Hall of Famer and Baltimore native. Spurred by the Orioles' success, 
and also by the new presence of professional football, the City chose to 
rebuild the stadium in 1950 as a facility of "major league caliber", which 
they later renamed Memorial Stadium in honor of the thousands of the City's 
dead of the recently concluded World War II. The reconstruction began in 
1949 and was done in stages, slowly obliterating the old Municipal Stadium 
stands, even as the International League Orioles continued playing on their 
makeshift diamond, along with the new Baltimore Colts of the former All-America 
Football Conference merged with the reorganized National Football League. 
New Memorial Stadium was completed in the late spring/early summer of 1954 
under the direction of the administration of Mayor, Thomas L.J. D'Alesandro, 
Jr. as the Orioles' first "big league" season progressed, at a cost of 
$6.5 million under a project which started with its expansion in 1950. 
Seating 31,000 at the time, the new stadium consisted of a single, horseshoe-shaped 
deck, with the open end facing north, and was designed to host football 
as well as baseball. A roofless upper deck was added later in 1953–1954 
when the St. Louis Browns of the American League were announced in November 
1953 to be moved to Baltimore and became the new major league version of 
the Baltimore Orioles, beginning play in April 1954 in the American League. 
On April 15, 1954, thousands of Baltimoreans jammed city streets as the 
new Orioles paraded from downtown at the Baltimore City Hall to their new 
home at Memorial Stadium on 33rd Street for their first home game. During 
the 90-minute parade, the new "Birds" signed autographs, handed out pictures 
and threw styrofoam balls to crowd as the throngs marched down several 
major city streets ending on East 33rd Street. Inside, more than 46,000 
watched the Orioles beat the Chicago White Sox, 3–1, to win their home 
opener and move into first place (although temporarily) in the American 
League.[5] Both the new Orioles and the Colts had some great successes 
over the next few decades, winning several championships. Among the noteworthy 
Orioles who played here by the 1960s to 90's were pitcher Jim Palmer, first 
basemen John (Boog) Powell and Eddie Murray, shortstop Cal Ripken Jr., 
third baseman Brooks Robinson, and outfielder Frank Robinson. Among the 
Colts' greats were quarterback Johnny Unitas, wide receiver Raymond Berry, 
and running backs Alan Ameche and Lenny Moore, as well as tight end John 
Mackey. Over the next few decades, both teams became among the winningest 
and competitive franchises in their sports, sending a number of players 
to their respective Halls of Fame. Following the stunning win of their 
first championship in what became known as "The Greatest Game to be Played" 
versus the New York Giants in the 1958 title game in New York City, the 
Colts later repeated the accomplishment in the next year's NFL championship 
game of 1959, which the "Hosses" won, playing at the stadium before a home 
crowd. It was the enthusiasm of Colts fans in particular that led to the 
stadium being dubbed "The World's Largest Outdoor Insane Asylum" by Cooper 
Rollow, the "Chicago Tribune"'s head NFL sports writer at the time. On 
May 2, 1964, a freak accident involving a stadium escalator caused the 
death of a teenaged girl and injuries to 46 other children. That day, the 
Orioles held "Safety Patrol Day" to honor schoolchildren who served in 
their schools' safety patrols, in which they helped their fellow students 
travel to and from school safely. For the event, 20,000 schoolchildren 
from around the state of Maryland were given free admission to the Orioles' 
game against the Cleveland Indians. While the national anthem was playing 
before the start of the game, hundreds of children began getting onto an 
escalator that traveled from the lower deck to the upper deck on the stadium's 
third base side. Unfortunately, while three or four children at a time 
were getting on the escalator at the bottom, the top of the escalator was 
partially blocked by a narrow metal gate that allowed only one person to 
pass through. The mass of children was thus blocked at the top, and children 
began falling back on top of one another in a crush of bodies as other 
children continued to get on at the bottom and as the jagged metal steps 
of the escalator continued to move beneath all of them. The moving steps 
cut and mutilated the children until a stadium usher, 65-year-old Melville 
Gibson, finally reached the escalator's emergency shut-off switch and turned 
the escalator off. Previously, the shut-off switch had been moved to a 
wall across from the escalator in order to prevent pranksters from turning 
it off while people were on it. A 14-year-old girl, Annette S. Costantini, 
was killed in the accident. 46 other children were injured, some seriously. 
The gate at the top of the escalator — called a "people channeler" — had 
apparently been left there after a previous event, when the escalator's 
direction had been switched to move people downward. The gate's purpose 
was to control the flow of people getting onto the escalator. Shortly before 
the tragedy, Orioles management had decided to open the stadium's upper 
deck to Safety Patrol members who were still arriving by game time, after 
early-arriving children had filled the bleachers. Children heading for 
the upper deck then got onto the escalator. It was the worst accident in 
the history of the stadium.[6][7][8][9] A small private airplane crashed 
on the stadium premises on December 19, 1976, just minutes after the conclusion 
of an NFL playoff game with the Pittsburgh Steelers. The airplane, a Piper 
Cherokee, buzzed the stadium, and then crashed into the upper deck overlooking 
the south end zone. The Steelers had won the game handily (40–14), and 
most of the fans had already exited the stadium by the time the game ended. 
There were no serious injuries, and the pilot was arrested for violating 
air safety regulations.[10] In a most unusual move, Robert Irsay (1923–1997), 
then owner of Los Angeles Rams and then-current Colts owner Carroll Rosenbloom 
(1907–1979) swapped franchises. Under the new Irsay regime, their new general 
manager Joe Thomas (1921–1983) made some daring and ultimately rewarding 
trades and drafts which again brought the Colts to prominence in the NFL. 
However, by the late 70s/early 80s, key injuries (especially to their franchise 
QB, Bert Jones, who ironically wound up going to the Rams) and ill-advised 
personnel moves by Irsay caused the team's fortunes to sag, and attendance 
in the modest stadium did as well. Further, neither Irsay nor the city 
could agree to desperately-needed improvements to the aging and tattered 
stadium, so Irsay started visiting other cities, seeking to either motivate 
the city or woo another. Finally, a quick travel stop with a B.W.I. Airport 
conference was held with City Mayor William Donald Schaefer (1921–2011), 
which also proved fruitless. Irsay then negotiated with Indiana officials 
and in Indianapolis with Mayor William H. Hudnut, III, and they stunned 
the sports world by transferring to Indianapolis, with Mayflower Moving 
Company moving vans trucking the club's equipment to Indiana in the middle 
of a snowy night on March 29, 1984, under the threat of a measure introduced 
into the state legislature to initiate condemnation proceedings for the 
city and state to assert "eminent domain" and take ownership of the franchise 
on behalf of the citizens and fans. This event dramatically shifted the 
political establishment's view on how best to address the later continued 
stadium upgrade needs of the Orioles, the only remaining tenant. It was 
only after the Colts moved that the mayor reversed his position and supported 
establishment of a new stadium in time for the Orioles...but too late to 
keep the Colts. When the decision to abandon Memorial Stadium (in favor 
of the new downtown ballpark) became imminent, various citizen groups began 
to organize opposition to the decision. In particular, the neighborhoods 
surrounding Memorial Stadium became anxious about the impact on their area 
of an abandoned "white elephant": there simply wasn't any other use that 
would generate the funds to properly maintain the site. And there were 
no funds for demolition and redevelopment. While the stadium events may 
have created periodic disruptions to local life, it did provide easy access 
to major league sports and special attention from the city for maintenance 
of the area. No one in the local community was optimistic about the future 
of the neighborhoods. The mayor and other power brokers, of course, knew 
of strong general public opposition to subsidizing a new ballpark. City-wide, 
as well as local, community leaders also knew of this potential, but there 
was also a shortage of leaders willing to take on this task (although this 
was never stated, and may not have been known by Mayor Schaefer). During 
this pivotal period, local community leaders decided to "bargain away the 
petition drive" for certain considerations. To do this, area community 
groups formed the "Stadium Neighborhoods Coalition" (SNC) and negotiated 
the following: (1) Establishment of an official Memorial Redevelopment 
Stadium Task Force with public meetings and minutes; and, (2) a written 
pledge by then Mayor Schaefer to provide upfront funding for any demolition 
and redevelopment resulting from this community process. For the next decade, 
while the community input process lumbered on, Memorial Stadium hosted 
a minor league baseball team and two new professional football teams. The 
Bowie Baysox, a minor league affiliate of the Orioles, played their inaugural 
1993 season at Memorial Stadium while their permanent home ballpark was 
being built. As the Orioles were then in their second season at Camden 
Yards, this gave Baltimore the rare distinction of hosting both major league 
and minor league teams simultaneously; currently, New York City has that 
honor with the presence of the Brooklyn Cyclones and Staten Island Yankees, 
who are affiliated with the Mets and Yankees, respectively. The Baltimore 
Stallions played during the Canadian Football League's "southern expansion" 
experiment to the United States. The team was originally known as the "Baltimore 
CFL Colts", but they were forced to change their name to the Stallions 
(after one year of playing without an official name) when the NFL was granted 
a legal court injunction which prevented the CFL franchise from reclaiming 
the "Colts" name. Owner Jim Speros took over the facility, exchanging tickets 
to contractors for renovations to help bring the dilapidated stadium to 
workable condition.[11] Memorial Stadium was unique in that it was one 
of the few U. S. stadiums that could accommodate the full 65-yard width 
and 150-yard length of a regulation Canadian football field (most likely 
since it had been designed for baseball as well as American football). 
Averaging more than 30,000 spectators a game for two years, the Stallions 
would eventually become the only American team to win the Grey Cup.[11] 
The Stallions of the CFL were ultimately forced out of town when Cleveland 
Browns owner Art Modell announced he was moving his team to Baltimore. 
Following protracted negotiations between Modell, the two cities and the 
NFL, it was decided that Modell would be allowed to take his players and 
organization to Baltimore as the Ravens, while leaving the Browns name 
and legacy for a replacement team that returned in 1999. The Ravens were 
tenants of the stadium until the end of the 1997 NFL regular season, when 
they moved to what is now M&T Bank Stadium. It was bid farewell in style 
by both the Orioles (in a field-encircling ceremony staged by many former 
Oriole players and hosted by Hall of Fame announcer Ernie Harwell, who 
began his announcing career here) and the Ravens (who had many former Colts 
assemble for a final play, run by Unitas). Through all of this, the official 
Redevelopment Task Force met off and on, deliberating on prospects for 
long-term use. The community remained quite sensitized about any inappropriate 
use of this center-of-the-neighborhood structure. When word leaked that 
the stadium was being considered for staging rock concerts, a group of 
neighbors organized the group "People Against Concerts at Memorial Stadum" 
(PACAMS). As Baltimore was deciding to confirm or deny this story—with 
no immediate answer—a large public opposition developed. With the resulting 
outpouring of anger, the City publicly confirmed its decision not to lease 
the site for rock concerts. In resolving the rock concert problem, a new 
spirit of proactive advocacy was ignited in the community. In fact, there 
had been developing a division within established neighborhood groups about 
the best tactics in securing a good future for the stadium. Should the 
groups make further use of the direct action tactics of PACAMS, or use 
quiet lobbying by established groups? That division was never resolved, 
as individuals continued to work in different paths. In fact, PACAMS, after 
its success in preventing the stadium's use for concerts, reconstituted 
itself as "People Advocating a Community Agenda for Memorial Stadium"—continuing 
with the successful PACAMS acronym. With PACAMS' public advocacy, and the 
established groups' holding fast to more traditional lines of community, 
there ultimately resulted in a large, and well attended, public meeting 
where several redevelopment proposals were presented. The resulting community 
preference for a mixed used development led to the successful development 
now on site. The City of Baltimore solicited proposals for development 
of the site. Most proposals preserved some or all of the stadium, including 
the memorial to World War II veterans and words on the facade. One proposal 
even had a school occupying the former offices of Memorial Stadium and 
the field used as a recreational facility for the school. Mayor Martin 
J. O'Malley, however, favored the proposal that resulted in the total razing 
of the stadium, an act that many fought and protested. Former mayor and 
governor William Donald Schaefer protested that the stadium was razed for 
political reasons. The venerable and historic stadium was demolished over 
a ten-month period beginning in April 2001. Approximately 10,000 cubic 
yards of concrete rubble from it was used to build an artificial reef over 
a 6-acre site in the Chesapeake Bay three miles west of Tolchester Beach, 
Maryland in 2002.[12] As of 2005, the former site of Memorial Stadium housed 
Maryland's largest YMCA facility and the developing vision of "Stadium 
Place", a mixed income community for seniors in Baltimore City. Currently 
there are four senior apartment complexes up and running on site. All of 
this, the political wranglings, the sports history and the city's attachment 
to a doomed landmark was captured in a documentary, "The Last Season, The 
Life and Demolition of Memorial Stadium." In 2010, work started on developing 
a new recreational baseball/football field on the site (Cal Ripken Senior 
Youth Development Field), with home plate being in the same exact location 
as it was when Memorial Stadium existed.[13] The field was completed in 
December 2010. A ribbon-cutting ceremony on December 7 was attended by 
Billy and Cal Ripken, and Governor Martin O'Malley.[14][15] The general 
layout of Memorial Stadium resembled a somewhat scaled-down version of 
Cleveland Stadium (then home of the MLB Indians and NFL Browns). Due to 
the need to fit a football field on the premises, the playing area was 
initially quite large, especially in center field and foul territory. The 
construction of inner fences after 1958, however, reduced the size of the 
outfield. The addition of several rows of box seats also reduced the foul 
ground, ultimately making the stadium much more of a hitters' park than 
it was originally. It did host the Major League Baseball All-Star Game 
that year. Memorial Stadium was one of the nation's few venues to host 
a World Series, an MLB All-Star Game, and an NFL Championship game. The 
only home run ball ever hit completely out of Memorial Stadium was slugged 
by Frank Robinson on Mother's Day in May 1966, off Cleveland Indians pitcher 
Luis Tiant. It cleared the left field single-deck portion of the grandstand. 
A flag was later erected near the spot the ball cleared the back wall, 
with simply the word "HERE" upon it. The ball was retrieved by two children 
Mike Sparaco and Bill Wheatley then returned to Frank Robinson.[16] The 
flag is now in the Baltimore Orioles "Sports Legends" museum at the old 
Camden Street Station, adjacent to the new ballpark of 1992. The exterior 
wall of the stadium behind home plate was dominated by the following text, 
spanning most of the stadium's height facing 33rd Street, as a memorial 
to those killed in the two world wars: ERECTED BY THE CITY OF BALTIMORE 
1954 DEDICATED BY THE MAYOR AND THE CITY COUNCIL AND THE PEOPLE OF BALTIMORE 
CITY IN THE STATE OF MARYLAND As a Memorial to All 'Who so Valiantly Fought 
'and Served in the World 'Wars with Eternal 'Gratitude to Those Who 'Made 
the Supreme 'Sacrifice to Preserve Equality and Freedom 'Throughout the 
World TIME WILL NOT DIM THE GLORY OF THEIR DEEDS The final line is a quote 
from Gen. John J. Pershing, commander of the American Expeditionary Forces 
during World War I and first chairman of the American Battle Monuments 
Commission, 1923–1948.[17] A miniature recreation of the stadium wall now 
sits outside Oriole Park at Camden Yards, the Orioles' current stadium. 
Memorial Stadium also hosted several University of Maryland home football 
games against such opponents as Clemson and Penn State. In 1988, the stadium 
served as Navy's "home" venue for their annual football game against the 
Notre Dame Fighting Irish. The ballpark also served as the home venue for 
Baltimore's two North American Soccer League teams, the Bays (1967–1968) 
and the Comets (1974). Unlike the football gridiron which was situated 
from home plate to center field, the soccer pitch was laid out with the 
right field foul line doubling as an end line, the other one in deep left 
field and the pitching mound out of bounds. The seating capacity over the 
