A mercy rule, slaughter rule, knockout rule, or skunk rule ends a two-competitor 
sports contest earlier than the scheduled endpoint if one competitor has 
a very large and presumably insurmountable lead over the other. It is called 
the mercy rule because it spares further humiliation for the loser. It 
is common in youth sports in North America, where running up the score 
is considered unsporting. It is especially common in baseball and softball, 
in which there is no game clock and a dominant team could in theory continue 
an inning indefinitely. The rules vary widely, depending on the level of 
competition, but nearly all youth leagues and high school sports associations, 
and many college sports associations have mercy rules for sports including 
baseball, softball, American football (though not college) and association 
football. However, mercy rules usually do not take effect until a prescribed 
point in the game (e.g., the second half of an Association football game). 
That means one team, particularly if they are decidedly better than a weaker 
opponent, can still "run up the score" before the rule takes effect. For 
instance, in American football, one team could be ahead by 70 points with 
three minutes left in the first half; in baseball, the better team could 
have a 20-run lead in the second inning, but the game would continue. International 
competitions are sanctioned by the World Baseball Softball Confederation 
(WBSC), formed by the 2013 merger of the International Baseball Federation 
(IBAF) and International Softball Federation (ISF). In baseball competitions, 
including Olympic competitions (discontinued after 2008) and the World 
Baseball Classic (WBC), games are currently ended when one team is ahead 
by 10 runs, once at least seven completed innings are played by the trailing 
team. In women's competition, the same applies after five innings.[1] The 
inaugural WBC in 2006 followed the IBAF mercy rule, with an additional 
rule stopping a game after five innings when a team is ahead by at least 
15 runs.[2] The mercy rules applied to the round-robin (now double-elimination) 
matches only, and not to the Semi-Finals or Final. In Little League Baseball 
and Softball, rules call for the game to end if the winning team is ahead 
by 10 runs after four innings (3½ innings if the home team is ahead). Softball 
rules are different for fast/modified fast pitch and slow pitch. In WBSC-sanctioned 
competitions, the run ahead rule (the WBSC terminology) is, for fast or 
modified fast pitch, 20 runs after three innings, 15 after four, or 7 after 
5. In slow pitch, the margin is 20 runs after four innings or 15 after 
five.[3] The NCAA has also adopted this rule. In NCAA and NAIA college 
baseball, the game will end if a team is ahead by at least 10 runs after 
seven innings in a scheduled 9-inning game. Most NCAA conferences only 
apply the rule on the final day of a series for travel reasons or during 
conference tournaments in order to allow the next game to start. The rule 
is not allowed in NCAA tournament play (regionals, super regionals and 
College World Series), where all games must be at least nine innings. In 
NCAA softball, the rule is invoked if one team is ahead by at least eight 
runs after five innings and, unlike with college baseball, applies in the 
NCAA tournament as well with the exception of the championship series. 
In American high school softball, most states use a mercy rule of 20 runs 
ahead in three innings or 10 in five innings. (In either case, if the home 
team is ahead by the requisite number of runs, the game will end after 
the top half of the inning.) Most state high school associations (where 
games are seven innings) have rules where a baseball game ends after the 
winning team has built a 10-run lead and at least five innings have been 
played; some associations further this rule ending a game after either 
three or four innings if the lead is at least 15 runs. For softball, the 
rule is 12 after three innings, and 10 after five. However, since the home 
team has the last at-bat, the rules usually allow visiting teams to score 
an unlimited number of runs in the top half of an inning. This can be prevented 
by only invoking the rule after the home team has completed their half 
of the inning. Due to the untimed nature of innings, some leagues impose 
caps on the number of runs that can be scored in one inning, usually in 
the 4-8 range. This ensures that games will complete in a reasonable length 
of time, but it can also mean that a lead of a certain size becomes insurmountable 
due to the cap, however, this can be prevented by not invoking the rule 
in this or similar circumstances. At the middle or high-school level, 34 
states use a mercy rule that may involve a "continuous clock" – that is, 
the clock continues to operate on most plays when the clock would normally 
stop, such as an incomplete pass – once a team has a certain lead (e.g., 
35 points) during the second half. This greatly decreases the amount of 
time taken for a game to complete which reduces the leading team's chances 
to score more and time that the trailing team must spend facing an insurmountable 
deficit. In most states, the clock stops only for scores, timeouts (officials', 
injury, or charged) or the end of the quarter. Plays that would normally 
stop the clock -- such as penalties, incomplete passes, going out of bounds, 
or change of possession -- would not stop the clock. The rule varies by 
state; for example, the clock does not stop upon a score in Colorado or 
Kansas (regular-season games only). In most states, once the point differential 
is reduced to below the mercy rule-invoking amount, normal timing procedures 
resume until either the end of the game or the mercy rule-invoking point 
differential is re-established; in Colorado and Kansas, the clock continues 
to run even if the differential falls below the threshold. Most states 
that have mercy rules waive this rule for a championship game. In some 
states, coaches and game officials may choose to end a game at their own 
discretion at any time during the second half if the continuous clock rule 
is in effect; this usually happens if a lopsided margin continues to increase 
or if threatening weather is imminent. Sometimes the coach of the team 
that is losing agrees to shorten the length of a quarter in addition to 
the continuous clock rule. Although rare, some states or high school conferences 
have rules where the team with a very large lead can't run a certain play 
for the rest of the game, such as a deep pass or outside run. In some states 
(where 8-man and 6-man football is widely used), the rules call for a game 
to end when one team is ahead by a certain score (e.g., 45 or 50 points) 
at half time or any time thereafter.[4] In other states with 6- or 8-man 
football, continuous clock rules are used, and the rule may be modified; 
for instance, in Iowa, the rule goes into effect if the 35-point differential 
is reached at any time after the first quarter. The National Collegiate 
Athletic Association's mercy rule provides that "Any time during the game, 
the playing time of any remaining period or periods and the intermission 
between halves may be shortened by mutual agreement of the opposing head 
coaches and the referee." (NCAA Football Rule 3-2-2-a)[5] NCAA Football 
Approved Ruling 3-2-2-I cites an example where "At halftime the score is 
56-0. The coaches and the referee agree that the third and fourth quarters 
should be shortened to 12 minutes each. The coaches also request that the 
second half be played with a 'running clock' i.e., that the game clock 
not be stopped." The NCAA Football Rules Committee determined that "The 
remaining quarters may be shortened to 12 minutes each. However, the 'running 
clock' is not allowed; normal clock rules apply for the entire game." [6] 
The most recent example of an NCAA football game shortened due to a slaughter 
occurred September 24, 2016, when the Missouri Tigers led Delaware State 
58-0 at halftime. The coaches agreed to shorten the third and fourth quarters 
from 15 minutes to 10 minutes each, shortening the total game time from 
60 minutes to 50 minutes. The Tigers added three touchdowns in the abbreviated 
second half to make the final score 79-0, setting University of Missouri 
team records for most number of points scored in a game (79), greatest 
margin of victory (79), and most number of touchdowns scored (11). (Missouri 
would have scored 80 points had it not missed an extra point early in the 
game). Earlier in 2016, the game between Texas State and Arkansas saw the 
fourth quarter shortened to 10 minutes when severe thunderstorms were approaching 
Donald W. Reynolds Razorback Stadium. The Razorbacks led 42-3 at the end 
of the third quarter, and the final period was scoreless. In a 2013 game, 
Old Dominion University was losing to North Carolina 80–20 when ODU coach 
Bobby Wilder asked for the fourth quarter to be shortened by five minutes, 
which UNC coach Larry Fedora agreed to. Fedora also directed his quarterback 
to take a knee on fourth and goal with 1:53 remaining to not run up the 
score.[7] In a 1988 game, Kansas Jayhawks coach Glen Mason asked if a running 
clock could be used after his team trailed 49–0 at halftime to Auburn. 
Auburn Tigers coach Pat Dye and the officials agreed, and Auburn ended 
up a 56–7 winner.[8] Despite the NCAA Football Rules Committee's subsequent 
ruling (A.R. 3-2-2-I) that a "running clock" is not permitted, a continuous 
clock was used September 5, 2013, beginning in the fourth quarter when 
the Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets had a 63-0 lead against the Elon Phoenix. 
This was at the request of Elon coach Jason Swepsona and agreed upon by 
Georgia Tech coach Paul Johnson. The Yellow Jackets won the game 70–0.[9] 
If a boxer trails by more than 20 points, the referee stops the fight and 
the boxer that is leading automatically wins; bouts which end this way 
may be noted as "RSC" (referee stopped contest) with notations for an outclassed 
opponent (RSCO), outscored opponent (RSCOS), injury (RSCI) or head injury 
(RSCH). While a boxer who loses on the mercy rule is scored RSCOS, and 
would be similar to a technical knockout in professional boxing, it is 
not scored a loss by knockout, and the 28-day suspension for losing on 
a knockout does not apply. International Blind Sports Federation rules 
require that any time during a game that one team has scored ten (10) more 
goals than the other team that game is deemed completed.[10] In United 
States high school soccer, most states use a mercy rule that ends the game 
whenever one team is ahead by 10 or more goals at any point from halftime 
onward. Youth soccer leagues use variations on this rule. In woodsball, 
if you were within 10 feet (3.0 m) of an opposing player and he was unaware 
of your presence, it is an etiquette to offer the opposing player a "mercy", 
that is to offer him a chance to surrender and call himself out of the 
game, instead of shooting him at close range. The opposing player, however, 
does not have to accept this "mercy" and can attempt to return fire. This 
rule, however, is not universal and different fields have different variation 
and interpretation of the mercy rule.[11] In high school basketball, many 
states have a "continuous clock" rule, similar to American football, which 
takes effect in the second half after a lead grows to a prescribed point 
(e.g., in Iowa, 35 points or more; in Kansas, 30 points or more, but only 
applicable to the fourth quarter). The clock stops only for charged, officials' 
or injury time-outs; or at the end of the third quarter. The clock would 
not stop in situations where timing would normally stop, such as for fouls, 
free throws, out-of-bounds plays or substitutions. The rules vary when 
normal timing procedures take effect after a lead is diminished (such as 
due to the trailing team's rally); for instance, in Iowa, normal timing 
procedures are enforced when the lead is lowered to 25 points, but re-instituted 
once the lead grows back to 35 or more points. By comparison, in Kansas, 
if the running clock is triggered, it will not stop except for a timeout 
or an injury, even if the differential is reduced to under 30 points. As 
with other sports, some states offer provisions to allow a team to end 
the game early by mutual decision of the coaches (for instance, if a large 
lead continues to grow and the talent disparity is obvious). In American 
collegiate wrestling and high school wrestling, a wrestler wins by technical 
fall, and the match ends, if he builds a 15-point lead. If a wrestler gains 
a 15-point lead when he or she has his or her opponent in a near-fall, 
the referee will allow the offensive wrestler the opportunity to win by 
fall without liability to be reversed and pinned. The bout ends either 
when a fall is awarded, or the near-fall ends. When playing a First-To-Ten 
(FTT) set, if one fighter goes up 5–0 or more, it is expected that his 
or her opponent concedes the set.[citation needed] The fighter with 0 wins 
is likely on tilt (getting progressively worse as they get more desperate 
