Merkle's Boner refers to the notorious base-running mistake committed by 
rookie Fred Merkle of the New York Giants in a game against the Chicago 
Cubs in 1908. Merkle's failure to advance to second base on what should 
have been a game-winning hit led instead to a forceout at second and a 
tied game. The Cubs later won the makeup game, which proved decisive as 
they beat the Giants by one game to win the National League (NL) pennant 
in 1908. It has been described as "the most controversial game in baseball 
history."[1] The NL pennant race of 1908 was a three-team fight among the 
teams that dominated the league in the first decade of the modern era: 
the Pittsburgh (then spelled Pittsburg) Pirates (pennant winners in 1901, 
1902, and 1903), the Giants (winners in 1904 and 1905), and the Cubs (winners 
in 1906 and 1907).[2] The teams were clustered in the standings all year, 
with Pittsburg never more than 2.5 games up or 5 back,[3] the Giants never 
more than 4.5 up or 6.5 back,[4] and the Cubs never more than 4 games up 
or 6 games back.[5] When play began at the Polo Grounds in New York City 
on September 23, 1908, the Cubs and Giants were tied for first place (although 
the Giants had six more games to play, with an 87–50 record as opposed 
to the Cubs' 90–53), and the Pirates were 1.5 games back with an 88–54 
record.[6] Merkle was 19 years old in 1908, the youngest player in the 
National League.[7] He played in only 38 games all year,[8] 11 of which 
were at first base as the backup for regular Giants first baseman Fred 
Tenney.[9] Merkle was recovering from two foot surgeries in July following 
a bad blood infection that nearly caused his foot to be amputated and was 
unable to play for most of July and August.[10][11] On the morning of September 
23, Tenney woke up with a case of lumbago, and Giants manager John McGraw 
penciled Merkle in at first base. It was the first big-league game Merkle 
had ever started.[12] Future Hall-of-Famer Christy Mathewson started for 
the Giants; Jack Pfiester started for the Cubs.[13] As was customary at 
the time, the game had only two umpires: Bob Emslie on the basepaths and 
Hank O'Day behind the plate.[14] The Giants were the home team. Mathewson 
and Pfiester both pitched shutouts through four innings. In the fifth, 
Cubs shortstop Joe Tinker hit the ball into the outfield, and when right 
fielder Mike Donlin could not stop it from going past him deep into the 
cavernous outfield of the Polo Grounds, Tinker circled the bases for an 
inside-the-park home run that gave Chicago a 1–0 lead. It was the first 
homer hit off Mathewson since a homer by Tinker on July 17.[15] The Giants 
tied the score in the sixth when Buck Herzog singled, advanced to second 
on an error, advanced to third on a sacrifice by Roger Bresnahan, and scored 
on a single by Donlin. The game was still tied 1–1 when the Giants came 
to bat in the bottom of the ninth.[16] Pfiester remained on the mound for 
Chicago. Cy Seymour led off with a groundout to second. Art Devlin singled, 
putting the winning run on first base with one out. Moose McCormick grounded 
sharply to second, but Devlin's aggressive slide prevented a double play 
and allowed McCormick to reach first base safely on a fielder's choice.[17] 
With two outs and McCormick on first, Fred Merkle came up to bat. Merkle, 
who only had 47 plate appearances in the entire 1908 season,[8] singled 
down the right-field line. McCormick, the potential winning run, advanced 
to third base.[18] Shortstop Al Bridwell came up to bat next with two outs 
and runners at the corners. Bridwell swung at the first pitch from Pfiester, 
a fastball, and drilled an apparent single into center field. McCormick 
ran home from third, and the game appeared to be over, a 2–1 Giants victory. 
Giants fans poured out of the stands and mobbed the field; fans sitting 
behind home plate customarily crossed the field to exit the ballpark via 
the outfield in this era. Merkle, advancing from first base, saw the fans 
swarming onto the playing field. He turned back to the dugout without ever 
touching second.[19] Official rule 4.09 states that "A run is not scored 
if the runner advances to home base during a play in which the third out 
is made ... by any runner being forced out".[20][21][22] Cubs second baseman 
Johnny Evers saw an opportunity to have the rule enforced. He shouted to 
center fielder Solly Hofman, who, though the field was filled with fans, 
retrieved the ball and threw it to Evers. According to one account, Joe 
McGinnity, a Giants pitcher who was coaching first base that day, intercepted 
the ball and threw it away into the crowd of fans. Evers retrieved the 
ball and touched second base, although some reports stated that a second 
ball was involved with this boner. Umpires Emslie and O'Day hurriedly consulted 
and O'Day, who saw the play from home plate, ruled that Merkle had not 
touched second base, and on that basis Emslie ruled him out on a force, 
and O'Day ruled that the run did not score.[23] Newspapers told different 
stories of who had gotten the ball to Evers and how. Christy Mathewson, 
however, who was coaching first base for the Giants, acknowledged in an 
affidavit that Merkle never made it to second.[24] One newspaper claimed 
that Cub players physically restrained Merkle from advancing to second. 
Retelling the story in 1944, Evers insisted that after McGinnity (who was 
not playing in the game) had thrown the ball away, Cubs pitcher Rube Kroh 
(who also was not in the game) retrieved it from a fan and threw it to 
shortstop Tinker, who threw it to Evers. (By rule, after a fan or a player 
who was not in the game touched the ball, it should have been ruled dead.) 
A contemporary account from the Chicago Tribune supports this version.[25] 
However, eight years prior to that, Evers claimed to have gotten the ball 
directly from Hofman. Five years after the play, Merkle admitted that he 
had left the field without touching second, but only after umpire Emslie 
assured them that they had won the game. In 1914, O'Day said that Evers' 
tag was irrelevant: he had called the third out after McGinnity interfered 
with the throw from center field.[26] Future Hall of Fame umpire Bill Klem 
said Merkle's boner was "the rottenest decision in the history of baseball"; 
Klem believed that the force rule was meant to apply to infield hits, not 
balls hit to the outfield.[27] Unable to quickly clear the field of fans, 
O'Day ruled the game over on account of darkness.[28] The game ended a 
1–1 tie. National League president Harry Pulliam upheld the ruling. On 
October 2, Pulliam rejected the Giants' appeal of O'Day's ruling and the 
Cubs' call for a forfeit victory and again upheld the umpires, declaring 
the force play on Merkle valid and the game a tie.[29] The Cubs-Giants-Pirates 
pennant race continued to the final days. The Giants were forced to end 
the season by playing 10 games in seven days due to rainouts.[30] After 
Merkle's boner, the Giants won 10 of their last 15 games to finish 98–55. 
The Cubs won eight of their last 10 after the Merkle game to also finish 
98–55. The Pirates, who beat the Dodgers 2–1 on September 23 to gain a 
half game on their rivals, won nine of their last 10 to force a makeup 
game with the Cubs on October 4. The Cubs beat the Pirates 5–2, leaving 
themselves tied with the Giants, and with the Pirates a half-game back 
of both teams at 98–56, they were thus eliminated. On October 6, the National 
League board of directors agreed with its umpires and with Hank Pulliam, 
making a final ruling that Merkle had failed to touch second base and that 
the force rule was correctly applied.[31] This left the Cubs and Giants 
tied at 98–55 and required a makeup game to decide the NL pennant. To decide 
the pennant (and a spot in the World Series), the teams had to replay the 
tie game on October 8. Mathewson, scheduled to start the game, said, "I'm 
not fit to pitch today. I'm dog tired."[32] The crowd was estimated at 
40,000, the biggest in baseball history at that time.[33] Pfiester pitched 
for the Cubs again in the rematch,[34] but was removed from the game in 
the first inning after hitting Tenney, walking Herzog (who was promptly 
picked off), giving up an RBI double to Donlin, and walking Seymour. Future 
Hall of Famer Mordecai "Three Finger" Brown entered the game in relief 
and got out of the jam without allowing another run crossing the plate.[35] 
In the Cubs half of the third inning, Tinker led off with a triple and 
scored on a single by Johnny Kling. Evers walked, Frank Schulte followed 
with an RBI double to give the Cubs the lead, and Frank Chance followed 
with a two-run double.[36] From there, Chicago cruised to a 4–2 victory, 
becoming champions of the NL for the third straight year. The Cubs went 
on to win the 1908 World Series, beating the Detroit Tigers four games 
to one. This was the Cubs' last world championship for more than a century: 
the next came in the 2016 World Series. The Pirates won the 1909 World 
Series, also against the Tigers. The Giants then returned to the World 
Series for three straight years, 1911–1913, only to lose each year—to the 
first of Connie Mack's two Philadelphia Athletics dynasties in 1911 and 
1913, and to the Boston Red Sox in 1912. John McGraw's club did not win 
another championship until 1921, when they defeated the emerging New York 
Yankees, featuring Babe Ruth, two consecutive years in the Yankees' first 
World Series appearances. The New York Times game story for September 23, 
1908, blamed the loss on "censurable stupidity on the part of player Merkle".[37] 
For the rest of his life, he lived with the nickname of "Bonehead".[38] 
Merkle replaced Tenney as the full-time Giants first baseman in 1910 and 
was a regular for the Giants, Dodgers, and Cubs for another 10 years. He 
played in five World Series, all for the losing team.[39] Bitter over the 
events of the Merkle's boner game, Merkle avoided baseball after his playing 
career finally ended in 1926. When he finally appeared at a Giants old-timers' 
game in 1950, he got a loud ovation from the fans.[38] Merkle's Bar and 
Grill, a popular Wrigleyville bar just one block south of Wrigley Field 
in Chicago, is named after Fred Merkle, and features his image prominently 
in the bar's logo and interior. The bar's website recounts the story of 
Merkle's infamous baserunning gaffe, and its e-mail list is titled "The 
Bonehead".[40] On July 1, 2013, a minor-league game between the Lansing 
Lugnuts and Great Lakes Loons featured a very similar play, in which an 
apparent game-winning single for the Lugnuts was nullified when the runner 
at first joined the celebration instead of advancing to second. The Lugnuts 
