The Mesoamerican ballgame (ōllamaliztli in Nahuatl (Nahuatl pronunciation: [oːlːamaˈlistɬi]), 
pitz in Classical Maya, modern Spanish "El juego de pelota") was a sport 
with ritual associations played since 1,400 BC[1] by the pre-Columbian 
peoples of Ancient Mesoamerica.[2] The sport had different versions in 
different places during the millennia, and a newer more modern version 
of the game, ulama, is still played in a few places by the indigenous population.[3] 
The rules of ōllamaliztli are not known, but judging from its descendant, 
ulama, they were probably similar to racquetball,[4] where the aim is to 
keep the ball in play. The stone ballcourt goals are a late addition to 
the game. In the most common theory of the game, the players struck the 
ball with their hips, although some versions allowed the use of forearms, 
rackets, bats, or handstones. The ball was made of solid rubber and weighed 
as much as 4 kg (9 lbs), and sizes differed greatly over time or according 
to the version played. The game had important ritual aspects, and major 
formal ballgames were held as ritual events, often featuring human sacrifice. 
The sport was also played casually for recreation by children and perhaps 
even women.[5] Pre-Columbian ballcourts have been found throughout Mesoamerica, 
as for example at Copán, as far south as modern Nicaragua, and possibly 
as far north as what is now the U.S. state of Arizona.[6] These ballcourts 
vary considerably in size, but all have long narrow alleys with slanted 
side-walls against which the balls could bounce. It is not known precisely 
when or where ōllamaliztli originated, although it is likely that the game 
originated earlier than 1400 BCE in the low-lying tropical zones home to 
the rubber tree.[7] One candidate for the birthplace of the ballgame is 
the Soconusco coastal lowlands along the Pacific Ocean.[8] Here, at Paso 
de la Amada, archaeologists have found the oldest ballcourt yet discovered, 
dated to approximately 1400 BCE.[1] The other major candidate is the Olmec 
heartland, across the Isthmus of Tehuantepec along the Gulf Coast.[9] The 
Aztecs referred to their Postclassic contemporaries who then inhabited 
the region as the Olmeca (i.e. "rubber people") since the region was strongly 
identified with latex production.[10] The earliest-known rubber balls come 
from the sacrificial bog at El Manatí, an early Olmec-associated site located 
in the hinterland of the Coatzacoalcos River drainage system. Villagers, 
and subsequently archaeologists, have recovered a dozen balls ranging in 
diameter from 10 to 22 cm from the freshwater spring there. Five of these 
balls have been dated to the earliest-known occupational phase for the 
site, approximately 1700–1600 BCE.[11] These rubber balls were found with 
other ritual offerings buried at the site, indicating that even at this 
early date ōllamaliztli had religious and ritual connotations.[12] A stone 
"yoke" of the type frequently associated with Mesoamerican ballcourts was 
also reported to have been found by local villagers at the site, leaving 
open the distinct possibility that these rubber balls were related to the 
ritual ballgame, and not simply an independent form of sacrificial offering.[13] 
Excavations at the nearby Olmec site of San Lorenzo Tenochtitlán have also 
uncovered a number of ballplayer figurines, radiocarbon-dated as far back 
as 1250–1150 BCE. A rudimentary ballcourt, dated to a later occupation 
at San Lorenzo, 600–400 BCE, has also been identified.[14] From the tropical 
lowlands, ōllamaliztli apparently moved into central Mexico. Starting around 
1000 BCE or earlier, ballplayer figurines were interred with burials at 
Tlatilco and similarly styled figurines from the same period have been 
found at the nearby Tlapacoya site.[15] It was about this period, as well, 
that the so-called Xochipala-style ballplayer figurines were crafted in 
Guerrero. Although no ballcourts of similar age have been found in Tlatilco 
or Tlapacoya, it is possible that the ballgame was indeed played in these 
areas, but on courts with perishable boundaries or temporary court markers.[16] 
By 300 BCE, evidence for ōllamaliztli appears throughout much of the Mesoamerican 
archaeological record, including ballcourts in the Central Chiapas Valley 
(the next oldest ballcourts discovered, after Paso de la Amada),[17] and 
in the Oaxaca Valley, as well as ceramic ballgame tableaus from Western 
Mexico (see photo here). As might be expected with a game played over such 
a long period of time by many cultures, details varied over time and place, 
so the Mesoamerican ballgame might be more accurately seen as a family 
of related games. It is known in Spanish as juego de pelota ("ballgame"), 
in Classic Maya as pitz, and in modern Nahuatl as ōllamaliztli. In general, 
the hip-ball version is most popularly thought of as the Mesoamerican ballgame,[18] 
and researchers believe that this version was the primary—or perhaps only—version 
played within the masonry ballcourt.[19] Ample archaeological evidence 
exists for games where the ball was struck by a wooden stick (e.g. a mural 
at Teotihuacan shows a game which resembles field hockey), racquets, bats 
and batons, handstones, and the forearm, perhaps at times in combination. 
Each of the various types of games had its own size of ball, specialized 
gear and playing field, and rules. Games were played between two teams 
of players. The number of players per team could vary, between 2 to 4.[20][21] 
Some games were played on makeshift courts for simple recreation while 
others were formal spectacles on huge stone ballcourts leading to human 
sacrifice. Even without human sacrifice, the game could be brutal and there 
were often serious injuries inflicted by the solid, heavy ball. Today's 
hip-ulama players are "perpetually bruised"[22] while nearly 500 years 
ago Spanish chronicler Diego Durán reported that some bruises were so severe 
that they had to be lanced open. He also reported that players were even 
killed when the ball "hit them in the mouth or the stomach or the intestines".[23] 
The rules of ōllamaliztli, regardless of the version, are not known in 
any detail. In modern-day ulama, the game resembles a net-less volleyball,[24] 
with each team confined to one half of the court. In the most widespread 
version of ulama, the ball is hit back and forth using only the hips until 
one team fails to return it or the ball leaves the court. In the Postclassic 
period, the Maya began placing vertical stone rings on each side of the 
court, the object being to pass the ball through one, an innovation that 
continued into the later Toltec and Aztec cultures. In the sixteenth-century 
Aztec ballgame that the Spaniards witnessed, points were lost by a player 
who let the ball bounce more than twice before returning it to the other 
team, who let the ball go outside the boundaries of the court, or who tried 
and failed to pass the ball through one of the stone rings placed on each 
wall along the center line.[25] According to 16th century Aztec chronicler 
Motolinia, points were gained if the ball hit the opposite end wall, while 
the decisive victory was reserved for the team that put the ball through 
a ring.[26] However, placing the ball through the ring was a rare event—the 
rings at Chichen Itza, for example, were set 6 meters off the playing field—and 
most games were likely won on points.[27] The game's paraphernalia—clothing, 
headdresses, gloves, all but the stone—are long gone, so knowledge on clothing 
relies on art—paintings and drawings, stone reliefs, and figurines—to provide 
evidence for pre-Columbian ballplayer clothing and gear, which varied considerably 
in type and quantity. Capes and masks, for example, are shown on several 
Dainzú reliefs, while Teotihuacan murals show men playing stick-ball in 
skirts.[30] The basic hip-game outfit consisted of a loincloth, sometimes 
augmented with leather hip guards. Loincloths are found on the earliest 
ballplayer figurines from Tlatilco, Tlapacoya, and the Olmec culture, are 
seen in the Weiditz drawing from 1528 (below), and, with hip guards, are 
the sole outfit of modern day ulama players (above)—a span of nearly 3000 
years. In many cultures, further protection was provided by a thick girdle, 
most likely of wicker or wood covered in fabric or leather. Made of perishable 
materials, none of these girdles have survived, although many stone "yokes" 
have been uncovered. Misnamed by earlier archaeologists due to its resemblance 
to an animal yoke, the stone yoke is thought to be too heavy for actual 
play and was likely used only before or after the game in ritual contexts.[31] 
In addition to providing some protection from the ball, the girdle or yoke 
would also have helped propel the ball with more force than the hip alone. 
Additionally, some players wore chest protectors called palmas which were 
inserted into the yoke and stood upright in front of the chest. Kneepads 
are seen on a variety of players from many areas and eras, and are worn 
by forearm-ulama players today. A type of garter is also often seen, worn 
just below knee or around the ankle—it is not known what function this 
served. Gloves appear on the purported ballplayer reliefs of Dainzú, roughly 
500 BCE, as well as the Aztec players drawn by Weiditz 2000 years later 
(see drawing below).[32] Helmets (likely utilitarian) and elaborate headdresses 
(likely used only in ritual contexts) are also common in ballplayer depictions, 
headdresses being particularly prevalent on Maya painted vases or on Jaina 
Island figurines. Many ballplayers of the Classic era are seen with a right 
kneepad—no left—and a wrapped right forearm, as shown in the Maya image 
above. The sizes or weights of the balls actually used in the ballgame 
are not known with any certainty. While several dozen ancient balls have 
been recovered, they were originally laid down as offerings in a sacrificial 
bog or spring, and there is no evidence that any of these were used in 
the ballgame. In fact, some of these extant votive balls were created specifically 
as offerings.[33] However, based on a review of modern-day game balls, 
ancient rubber balls, and other archaeological evidence, it is presumed 
by most researchers that the ancient hip-ball was made of a mix from one 
or another of the latex-producing plants found all the way from the southeastern 
rain forests to the northern desert.[34] Most balls were made from latex 
sap of the lowland Castilla elastica tree. Someone discovered that by mixing 
latex with sap from the vine of a species of morning glory (Calonyction 
aculeatum) they could turn the slippery polymers in raw latex into a resilient 
rubber. The size varied between 10 and 12 in (25 and 30 cm) (measured in 
hand spans) and weighed 3 to 6 lb (1.4 to 2.7 kg).[35] The ball used in 
the ancient handball or stick-ball game was probably slightly larger and 
heavier than a modern-day baseball.[36] Some Maya depictions, such as the 
painting above or this relief, show balls 1 m (3 ft 3 in) or more in diameter. 
Academic consensus is that these depictions are exaggerations or symbolic, 
as are, for example, the impossibly unwieldy headdresses worn in the same 
portrayals.[37] Ōllamaliztli was played within a large masonry structure. 
Built in a form that changed remarkably little during 2700 years, over 
1300 Mesoamerican ballcourts have been identified, 60% in the last 20 years 
alone.[38] Although there is a tremendous variation in size, in general 
all ballcourts have the same shape: a long narrow playing alley flanked 
by walls with both horizontal and sloping (or, more rarely, vertical) surfaces. 
The walls were often plastered and brightly painted. Although the alleys 
in early ballcourts were open-ended, later ballcourts had enclosed end-zones, 
giving the structure an -shape when viewed from above. Although the length-to-width 
ratio remained relatively constant at 4-to-1,[39] there was nonetheless 
tremendous variation in ballcourt size. The playing field of the Great 
Ballcourt at Chichen Itza, by far the largest, measures 96.5 meters long 
by 30 meters wide, while the Ceremonial Court at Tikal was only 16 meters 
by 5 meters.[40] Across Mesoamerica, ballcourts were built and used for 
many generations. Although ballcourts are found within most sizable Mesoamerican 
ruins, they are not equally distributed across time or geography. For example, 
the Late Classic site of El Tajín, the largest city of the ballgame-obsessed 
Classic Veracruz culture, has at least 18 ballcourts, while Cantona, a 
nearby contemporaneous site, sets the record with 24.[41] In contrast, 
northern Chiapas[42] and the northern Maya Lowlands[43] have relatively 
few, and ballcourts are conspicuously absent at some major sites, including 
Teotihuacan, Bonampak, and Tortuguero, although ōllamaliztli iconography 
has been found there.[44] Ancient cities with particularly fine ballcourts 
in good condition include Tikal, Yaxha, Copán, Coba, Iximche, Monte Albán, 
Uxmal, Chichen Itza, Yagul, Xochicalco, Mixco Viejo, and Zaculeu. Ballcourts 
were public spaces used for a variety of elite cultural events and ritual 
activities like musical performances and festivals, and, of course, the 
ballgame. Pictorial depictions often show musicians playing at ballgames, 
while votive deposits buried at the Main Ballcourt at Tenochtitlan contained 
miniature whistles, ocarinas, and drums. A pre-Columbian ceramic from western 
Mexico shows what appears to be a wrestling match taking place on a ballcourt.[45] 
Ōllamaliztli was a ritual deeply engrained in Mesoamerican cultures and 
served purposes beyond that of a mere sporting event. Fray Juan de Torquemada, 
a 16th-century Spanish missionary and historian, tells that the Aztec emperor 
Axayacatl played Xihuitlemoc, the leader of Xochimilco, wagering his annual 
income against several Xochimilco chinampas.[46] Ixtlilxochitl, a contemporary 
of Torquemada, relates that Topiltzin, the Toltec king, played against 
three rivals, with the winner ruling over the losers.[47] These examples 
and others are cited by many researchers who have made compelling arguments 
that ōllamaliztli served as a way to defuse or resolve conflicts without 
genuine warfare, to settle disputes through a ballgame instead of a battle.[48] 
Over time, then, the ballgame's role would expand to include not only external 
mediation, but also the resolution of competition and conflict within the 
society as well.[49] This "boundary maintenance" or "conflict resolution" 
theory would also account for some of the irregular distribution of ballcourts. 
Overall, there appears to be a negative correlation between the degree 
of political centralization and the number of ballcourts at a site.[50] 
For example, the Aztec Empire, with a strong centralized state and few 
external rivals, had relatively few ballcourts while Middle Classic Cantona, 
with 24 ballcourts, had many diverse cultures residing there under a relatively 
weak state.[51] Other scholars support these arguments by pointing to the 
warfare imagery often found at ballcourts: The association between human 
sacrifice and the ballgame appears rather late in the archaeological record, 
no earlier than the Classic era.[54] The association was particularly strong 
within the Classic Veracruz and the Maya cultures, where the most explicit 
depictions of human sacrifice can be seen on the ballcourt panels—for example 
at El Tajín (850–1100 CE)[55] and at Chichen Itza (900–1200 CE)—as well 
as on the well-known decapitated ballplayer stelae from the Classic Veracruz 
site of Aparicio (700–900 CE). The Postclassic Maya religious and quasi-historical 
narrative, the Popol Vuh, also links human sacrifice with the ballgame 
(see below). Captives were often shown in Maya art, and it is assumed that 
these captives were sacrificed after losing a rigged ritual ballgame.[56] 
Rather than nearly nude and sometimes battered captives, however, the ballcourts 
at El Tajín and Chichen Itza show the sacrifice of practiced ballplayers, 
perhaps the captain of a team.[57] Decapitation is particularly associated 
with the ballgame—severed heads are featured in much Late Classic ballgame 
art and appear repeatedly in the Popol Vuh. There has even been speculation 
that the heads and skulls were used as balls.[58] Little is known about 
the game's symbolic contents. Several themes recur in scholarly writing. 
According to an important Nahua source, the Leyenda de los Soles,[63] the 
Toltec king Huemac played ball against the Tlalocs, with precious stones 
and quetzal feathers at stake. Huemac won the game. When instead of precious 
stones and feathers, the rain deities offered Huemac their young maize 
ears and maize leaves, Huemac refused. As a consequence of this vanity, 
the Toltecs suffered a four-year drought. The same ball game match, with 
its unfortunate aftermath, signified the beginning of the end of the Toltec 
reign. The Maya Twin myth of the Popol Vuh establishes the importance of 
the game (referred to in Classic Maya as pitz) as a symbol for warfare 
intimately connected to the themes of fertility and death. The story begins 
with the Hero Twins' father, Hun Hunahpu, and uncle, Vucub Hunahpu, playing 
ball near the underworld, Xibalba.[64] The lords of the underworld became 
annoyed with the noise from the ball playing and so the primary lords of 
Xibalba, One Death and Seven Death, sent owls to lure the brothers to the 
ballcourt of Xibalba, situated on the western edge of the underworld. Despite 
the danger the brothers fall asleep and are captured and sacrificed by 
the lords of Xibalba and then buried in the ballcourt. Hun Hunahpu is decapitated 
and his head hung in a fruit tree, which bears the first calabash gourds. 
Hun Hunahpu's head spits into the hands of a passing goddess who conceives 
and bears the Hero Twins, Hunahpu and Xbalanque. The Hero Twins eventually 
find the ballgame equipment in their father’s house and start playing, 
again to the annoyance of the Lords of Xibalba, who summon the twins to 
play the ballgame amidst trials and dangers. In one notable episode, Hunahpu 
is decapitated by bats. His brother uses a squash as Hunahpu's substitute 
head until his real one, now used as a ball by the Lords, can be retrieved 
and placed back on Hunahpu's shoulders. The twins eventually go on to play 
the ballgame with the Lords of Xibalba, defeating them. However, the twins 
are unsuccessful in reviving their father, so they leave him buried in 
the ballcourt of Xibalba. In Maya Ballgame the Hero Twins myth links ballcourts 
with death and its overcoming. The ballcourt becomes a place of transition, 
a liminal stage between life and death. The ballcourt markers along the 
centerline of the Classic playing field depicted ritual and mythical scenes 
of the ballgame, often bordered by a quatrefoil that marked a portal into 
another world. The Twins themselves, however, are usually absent from Classic 
ballgame scenes, with the Vucub Caquix of the Copán ball court babe, holding 
the severed arm of Hunahpu, as an important exception.[65] No ballcourt 
has yet been identified at Teotihuacan, making it by far the largest Classic 
era site without one. In fact, the ballgame seems to have been nearly forsaken 
not only in Teotihuacan, but in areas such as Matacapan or Tikal that were 
under Teotihuacano influence.[66] Despite the lack of a ballcourt, ball 
games were not unknown there. The murals of the Tepantitla compound at 
Teotihuacan show a number of small scenes that seem to portray various 
types of ball games, including: It has been hypothesized that, for reasons 
as yet unknown, the stick-game eclipsed the hip-ball game at Teotihuacan 
and at Teotihuacan-influenced cities, and only after the fall of Teotihuacan 
did the hip-game reassert itself.[68] Ballplayer painting from the Tepantitla 
murals. Ballplayer painting from the Tepantitla, Teotihuacan murals. Note 
the speech scroll issuing from the player's mouth. Detail of a Tepantitla 
mural showing a hip-ball game on an open-ended ballcourt, represented by 
the parallel horizontal lines. The Aztec version of the ballgame is called 
ōllamalitzli (sometimes spelled ullamaliztli)[69] and are derived from 
the word ōlli "rubber" and the verb ōllama or "to play ball". The ball 
itself was called ōllamaloni and the ballcourt was called a tlachtli [ˈtɬatʃtɬi].[70] 
In the Aztec capital Tenochtitlan the largest ballcourt was called Teotlachco 
("in the holy ballcourt")—here several important rituals would take place 
on the festivals of the month Panquetzalitzli, including the sacrifice 
of four war captives to the honor of Huitzilopochtli and his herald PaInal. 
For the Aztecs the playing of the ballgame also had religious significance, 
but where the 16th-century K´iche´ Maya saw the game as a battle between 
the lords of the underworld and their earthly adversaries, their Aztec 
contemporaries may have seen it as a battle of the sun, personified by 
Huitzilopochtli, against the forces of night, led by the moon and the stars, 
and represented by the goddess Coyolxauhqui and Coatlicue's sons the 400 
Huitznahuah.[71] But apart from holding important ritual and mythical meaning, 
the ballgame for the Aztecs was a sport and a pastime played for fun, although 
in general the Aztec game was a prerogative of the nobles.[72] Young Aztecs 
would be taught ballplaying in the calmecac school—and those who were most 
proficient might become so famous that they could play professionally. 
Games would frequently be staged in the different city wards and markets—often 
accompanied by large-scale betting. Diego Durán, an early Spanish chronicler, 
said that "these wretches... sold their children in order to bet and even 
staked themselves and became slaves".[73] Since the rubber tree Castilla 
elastica was not found in the highlands of the Aztec Empire, the Aztecs 
generally received balls and rubber as tribute from the lowland areas where 
it was grown. The Codex Mendoza gives a figure of 16,000 lumps of raw rubber 
being imported to Tenochtitlan from the southern provinces every six months, 
although not all of it was used for making balls. In 1528, soon after the 
Spanish conquest, Cortés sent a troupe of ōllamanime (ballplayers) to Spain 
to perform for Charles V where they were drawn by the German Christoph 
Weiditz.[74] Besides the fascination with their exotic visitors, the Europeans 
were amazed by the bouncing rubber balls. Ballcourts, monuments with ballgame 
imagery and ballgame paraphernalia have been excavated at sites along the 
Pacific coast of Guatemala and El Salvador including the Cotzumalhuapa 
nuclear zone sites of Bilbao and El Baúl and sites right at the southeast 
periphery of the Mesoamerican region such as Quelepa.[75] Batey, a ball 
game played on many Caribbean islands including Cuba, Puerto Rico, and 
the West Indies, has been proposed as a descendent of the Mesoamerican 
ballgame, perhaps through the Maya.[76] Media related to Mesoamerican ballgame 
