Metropolitan Stadium (often referred to as "the Met", "the Ice Palace" 
when the Minnesota Vikings played, "Met Stadium", or now "the Old Met" 
to distinguish from the Metrodome) was a sports stadium that once stood 
in Bloomington, Minnesota, just outside Minneapolis. The Minneapolis Millers 
minor league baseball team played at Met Stadium from 1956 to 1960. The 
Minnesota Twins and the Minnesota Vikings then played at the "Met" from 
1961 to 1981. The North American Soccer League soccer team Minnesota Kicks 
also played there from 1976 to 1981. The area where the stadium once stood 
is now the site of the Mall of America. Beginning in 1953, inspired by 
the Boston Braves' move to Milwaukee, Gerald Moore, the president of the 
Minneapolis Chamber of Commerce, led the drive to lure a Major League team 
to Minnesota by constructing a modern stadium built to Major League specifications. 
After the rejection of numerous sites, a stadium committee appointed by 
Moore approved a 160-acre (0.65 km2) plot of farmland in Bloomington.[5] 
The stadium would replace Nicollet Park as the home of the American Association's 
Minneapolis Millers. As the site in Bloomington was approximately equidistant 
from the downtowns of Minneapolis and St. Paul, it was thought this would 
be the best location for a prospective Major League team.[6] After a plan 
by architects Thorshov & Cerny won approval, groundbreaking was scheduled 
to begin on June 20, 1955.[5] The construction was almost delayed, however, 
when the owners of the property on which the stadium would be built on 
began a protest, claiming they had not yet been paid. One of these owners 
created a barricade of farm equipment along his property line that ran 
directly through where the stadium's infield would be. The dispute was 
settled in time for the groundbreaking to move forward as planned.[7] Many 
spectators and dignitaries attended the groundbreaking, including Minneapolis 
mayor Eric G. Hoyer and several members of the Minneapolis Millers.[7] 
On February 7, 1956, an accident occurred on the construction site when 
a portable heater used to cure concrete exploded in the stadium's basement. 
After $50,000 of repairs and a three-week delay in construction, Metropolitan 
Stadium opened in time to hold its first game, a minor league contest between 
the Millers and the Wichita Braves on April 24 of that year.[5] (At the 
time of its opening, the stadium still lacked an official name; the park 
was not named until a July announcement declaring it "Metropolitan Stadium".)[8] 
In the 1950s, major league owners Calvin Griffith and Horace Stoneham called 
the stadium the finest facility in the minors; Stoneham added that "there 
were not two better" major league stadiums of the time (although not specifying 
which specific two he thought were the Met's equal)[6] Indeed, the Met's 
primary purpose was to attract a big-league team to the area. The Millers 
were then the top farm team of Stoneham's New York Giants, and there was 
some hope or expectation that the Giants might relocate there.[7] Under 
major league rules of the time, the Giants owned the major league rights 
to the Minneapolis area. Negotiations were also held with the Cincinnati 
Reds, Cleveland Indians, Philadelphia Athletics and Washington Senators.[9] 
However, the Giants chose to follow the Brooklyn Dodgers to the west coast 
at the urging of Dodgers owner Walter O'Malley, who owned the Millers' 
crosstown rivals, the St. Paul Saints. San Francisco had long been home 
to the Pacific Coast League's San Francisco Seals, the top farm team of 
the Boston Red Sox. As part of the deal, the Millers' parent team then 
became the Red Sox, who had no plans to move anywhere. Multiple exhibition 
games featuring Major League teams were held at the Met at this time; a 
game between the Detroit Tigers and Cincinnati Reds was held at the Met 
in 1957, and a matchup between the Senators and the Philadelphia Phillies 
was held shortly after the 1958 All-Star break. The latter game brought 
15,990 fans to the stadium, including Calvin Griffith, who described the 
stadium as "terrific."[10][11] In October 1960, Calvin Griffith announced 
that his Washington Senators would move to Metropolitan Stadium and later 
became the Minnesota Twins. The Twins played their first home game on April 
21, 1961 with a loss to the new Washington Senators (now the Texas Rangers).[1] 
The Millers and their perennial crosstown rival St. Paul Saints were then 
promptly folded by Major League Baseball. To ready the stadium for the 
Twins, a $9 million renovation increased the seating capacity from about 
22,000 to over 30,000 by the completion of the Twins' inaugural season.[11] 
During the Twins' first 10 seasons at the Met, they outdrew the average 
American League team each year.[9] The National Football League (NFL) was 
also interested in placing a team at the Met. Conversations were had with 
Violet Bidwill Wolfner, owner of the Chicago Cardinals, about moving her 
team to the stadium.[9] The Cardinals moved two of their regular season 
home games against the Philadelphia Eagles (October 25) (att: 20,112)[12] 
and New York Giants (November 22) (att: 26,625)[13] to Bloomington for 
the 1959 NFL season.[14] A preseason football game was held each year at 
the Met from 1956 to 1960. Finally, the Met got a football team when the 
American Football League announced Minneapolis- St. Paul as one of its 
charter cities for the 1960 AFL season. However, the NFL persuaded the 
team's owners to pull out of the AFL in January 1960 and join the NFL as 
an expansion team in 1961. The NFL team was later named the Minnesota Vikings. 
As it turned out, the year's delay worked to the Vikings' benefit, as by 
then the Twins had moved in and the Met had been expanded to befit its 
status as a big-league stadium. (The Chicago Cardinals, after playing two 
games in Bloomington in 1959, announced in March 1960 that they were moving 
to St. Louis.)[15] The Met was often considered a substandard venue for 
football. The gridiron ran from around third base to right field, with 
barely enough room to fit the playing field and end zones. Wooden bleachers 
were brought onto the field during football season to bring fans closer 
to the game.[7] For 1965, a large double-decked grandstand was installed 
in left field to replace the temporary wooden bleachers. The left-field 
grandstand was actually paid for by the Vikings in return for reduced rent;[10] 
this location was prime sideline seating in the football configuration. 
This left the Met with the unique configuration of a double deck in left 
field, and bleachers behind third base. The big left field stand was originally 
planned to be capable of sliding toward or away from the gridiron (as Denver's 
Mile High Stadium later would be), but that part of the project was never 
realized. The park had a skeletal feel, and it was obvious that it had 
once been a minor league baseball stadium. For instance, fans in the bleachers 
literally had to leave the stadium to get to the grandstand. The bleachers 
did not exist when the Met was originally built, and no concourse was ever 
built to connect them to the rest of the stadium.[16] Unlike most multipurpose 
stadiums built during this time, there were very few bad seats for baseball. 
The stadium was built using cantilever construction for the overhanging 
decks, eliminating posts that blocked the fans' view.[7] It was well known 
as a hitter's park; its short foul lines—343 to left, 330 to right—were 
particularly friendly to pull hitters such as Harmon Killebrew. The 330-foot 
(100 m) marker in right was actually closer to right-center, leading to 
speculation that right field was even closer.[6][17] Since the Met was 
built in 1956, however, this would not have been a problem for the Twins; 
baseball required all parks built after 1958 to have foul lines of at least 
325 feet (99 m).[18] The Met provided an overwhelming home-field advantage 
for the Vikings late in the season and in the playoffs due to Minnesota's 
famously cold temperatures.[19][20] The Vikings played 10 playoff games 
at the Met and lost only three of them. In 1965, both the Major League 
All-Star Game and the World Series were played at Metropolitan Stadium, 
one of the few times that coincidence has happened since the former event 
was inaugurated in 1933. (Game 7 of that year's World Series drew 50,596 
fans to the Met, the only time a baseball crowd exceeded 50,000 and the 
biggest-ever attendance for baseball at the stadium.)[8] The Vikings hosted 
the 1969 NFL Championship Game at the stadium.[21] Metropolitan Stadium 
was the home of the Minnesota Kicks soccer team from 1976 until the team 
folded in November 1981. The Kicks, members of the North American Soccer 
League, were highly anticipated in Minnesota and had to delay their first 
game at the Met by 15 minutes to accommodate the large crowd waiting to 
buy tickets.[22] To help speed things along, the Kicks' owners let two 
thousand fans enter the stadium for free.[22] An NASL attendance record 
was set one month later, when Pelé and the New York Cosmos drew 46,164 
fans to Metropolitan Stadium.[7][22] Large crowds continued for the Kicks, 
who drew 41,505 for that year's opening playoff game. Four days later, 
another record was set when 49,571 fans came to see the Kicks defeat San 
Jose, 3-1.[7] The team enjoyed great success in their first four seasons 
in Minnesota, winning a division title each year.[7] Attendance dipped 
toward the end of the franchise's history, however, with an average of 
16,605 per game in 1981, their final season.[23] The size of the field 
for soccer games was 100 by 72 yards 1976–78 and 104 by 72 yards 1979–81. 
The Met also hosted multiple concerts. On August 21, 1965, The Beatles 
played in front of 25,000 frenzied fans as part of their 1965 North American 
Tour.[24] On August 1, 1978, a concert featuring the Eagles, the Steve 
Miller Band, and Pablo Cruise drew a stadium-record 65,000 fans.[7][25] 
The Allman Brothers Band played the Met on June 24, 1979.[26] Numerous 
wrestling matches were held at Metropolitan Stadium, including contests 
featuring Hard Boiled Haggerty, Bob Geigel, Wilbur Snyder, Kay Noble, Lord 
Littlebrook, Verne Gagne, Gene Kiniski, Rene Goulet, Larry Hennig, Hans 
Schmidt, Mad Dog Vachon and Dick the Bruiser.[27] The Met's fate was essentially 
sealed when, as part of the AFL-NFL Merger, the NFL declared that stadiums 
smaller than 50,000 were inadequate for its needs; at its height the Met 
only seated 48,700 for football. However, the Vikings would not even consider 
playing at the University of Minnesota's Memorial Stadium, and demanded 
a brand-new stadium as a condition of staying in town. At one point, the 
city of Bloomington had plans to place a dome over Metropolitan Stadium, 
or build a new football stadium located between the Met and the Met Center, 
which had opened in 1967 just north of the Met.[28] Since football-only 
stadiums were not seen as viable at the time, the Twins decided not to 
renew their lease at the Met after the 1981 season. This accelerated the 
push for construction of a new stadium, the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome, 
which was completed in 1981. However, it is very likely that a new stadium 
would have been needed in any event, as the Met was not well maintained. 
By the park's final season, railings in the grandstand's third deck had 
become a major safety hazard.[17] Additionally, players had begun to complain 
about the quality of the field; the infield in particular was considered 
the worst in the majors.[29] Rumors abounded that the Metropolitan Sports 
Facilities Commission, which by then had taken over the stadium from the 
city of Minneapolis, had deliberately let the Met go to seed in order to 
aid the push for the Metrodome.[16] The Minnesota Kicks' last regular season 
game at Met Stadium was a 2-1 victory over the Dallas Tornado on August 
19, 1981. The team's last game at the Met was a 1-0 shoot out play off 
victory against the Tulsa Roughnecks on August 26, 1981. The team's last 
game played was a home playoff loss 3-0 to the Fort Lauderdale Strikers 
on September 6, 1981. The game was moved to the University of Minnesota's 
Memorial Stadium due to a scheduling conflict with the Twins. The Twins 
played their last game at the Met on September 30, 1981, losing to the 
Kansas City Royals 5-2 on a rainy afternoon.[10] The night before the final 
game, home plate was stolen, and after the final game ended, hundreds of 
fans gathered on the field, searching (mostly unsuccessfully) for mementoes.[22] 
Finishing the trifecta, the Vikings played their last game on December 
20, 1981, dropping a 10-6 decision to the Kansas City Chiefs.[30] Fans, 
sensing that this was the final game of any sort at the stadium, were more 
determined to claim souvenirs. In preparation, the Vikings tripled their 
security force for the contest.[22] In the game's final minutes, many of 
the 41,110 fans in attendance began dismantling seats and bleachers, and 
thousands stormed the field once the game ended.[22] The goal posts were 
torn down, pieces of sod from the field were dug up, and speakers and lightbulbs 
on the scoreboard were removed.[22] Hundreds of injuries were reported, 
mostly minor scrapes and bruises but also multiple head injuries sustained 
during the melee.[31] Met Stadium was officially abandoned when the Vikings 
and the Twins moved to the Metrodome in January 1982 and the Kicks folded 
after the 1981 soccer season. For the next 3 years, Met Stadium sat unused, 
decaying and highly vandalized. Demolition kickoff for Metropolitan Stadium 
started on January 28, 1985 and continued for the next 4 months. After 
the rubble was cleared, the lot sat vacant for several years, although 
the nearby Met Center continued to provide entertainment for hockey fans. 
The Mall of America, which opened in 1992, stands on the site of what is 
now nostalgically called "the Old Met." A brass plaque in the shape of 
home plate, embedded in the floor in the northwest corner of Nickelodeon 
Universe, commemorates the site's days as a sports venue by marking where 
home plate once sat. Near the opposite corner, mounted high on the wall, 
is a red stadium chair denoting the precise landing spot (including elevation) 
of Harmon Killebrew's 520-foot (160 m) home run, a blast to the upper deck 
in deep left-center field on June 3, 1967. This was the longest homer Killebrew 
ever hit, and the longest ever hit in Metropolitan Stadium.[7][32] Unlike 
the chair at the Mall, the Met's outfield seating featured green bleacher-style 
benches. For a time, there was talk of building a new park for the Twins 
on the old Met site that would be connected to the Mall of America. However, 
the terms of the agreement in which the land was sold to Triple Five Group, 
owners of the Mall of America, do not allow another stadium to be built 
on the site. Even without this to consider, the site is now directly in 
a flight path for Minneapolis–St. Paul International Airport.[16] The old 
flagpole at the stadium was purchased by the Minneapolis/Richfield American 
Legion Post when the stadium was razed. The pole was sold back to the Twins 
and restored in 2010; it was then placed in the plaza at Target Field.[25] 
A series of photographs taken in the mid-1980s during Metropolitan Stadium's 
