The Detroit metropolitan area, often referred to as Metro Detroit, is a 
major metropolitan area located in Southeast Michigan, consisting of the 
city of Detroit and its surrounding area. There are several definitions 
of the area, including the official statistical areas designated by the 
Office of Management and Budget, a federal agency of the United States. 
Metro Detroit is known for its automotive heritage, arts, entertainment, 
popular music, and sports. The area includes a variety of natural landscapes, 
parks, and beaches, with a recreational coastline linking the Great Lakes. 
It is one of the nation's largest metropolitan economies, with seventeen 
Fortune 500 companies. The Detroit Urban Area, which serves as the core 
of the metropolitan area, ranks as the 11th most populous in the United 
States, with a population of 3,734,090 as of the 2010 census and an area 
of 1,337.16 square miles (3,463.2 km2). This urbanized area covers parts 
of the counties of Macomb, Oakland, and Wayne.[1] These counties are sometimes 
referred to as the Detroit Tri-County Area and had a population of 3,862,888 
as of the 2010 census with an area of 1,967.1 square miles (5,095 km2). 
The Office of Management and Budget (OMB), a federal agency of the United 
States, defines the Detroit–Warren–Livonia Metropolitan Statistical Area 
(MSA) as the six counties of Lapeer, Livingston, Macomb, Oakland, St. Clair, 
and Wayne. As of the 2010 census, the MSA had a population of 4,296,250 
with an area of 3,913 square miles (10,130 km2). The nine county area designated 
by the OMB as the Detroit–Ann Arbor–Flint Combined Statistical Area (CSA) 
includes the Detroit–Warren–Livonia MSA and the three additional counties 
of Genesee, Monroe, and Washtenaw (which include the metropolitan areas 
of Flint, Monroe, and Ann Arbor, respectively). It had a population of 
5,318,744 as of the 2010 census and covers an area of 5,814 square miles 
(15,060 km2). Lenawee County was removed from the CSA in 2000, but added 
back in 2013.[2] With the adjacent city of Windsor, Ontario and its suburbs, 
the combined Detroit–Windsor area has a population of about 5.7 million.[3] 
When the nearby Toledo metropolitan area and its commuters are taken into 
account, the region constitutes a much larger population center. An estimated 
46 million people live within a 300-mile (480 km) radius of Detroit proper.[4] 
Metro Detroit is at the center of an emerging Great Lakes Megalopolis. 
Conan Smith, a businessperson quoted in a 2012 article by The Ann Arbor 
News, stated the most significant reason Washtenaw County, including Ann 
Arbor, is not often included in definitions of Metro Detroit is that there 
is a "lack of affinity that Washtenaw County as a whole has with Wayne 
County and Detroit or Oakland County and Macomb" and that residents of 
the county "just don't yet see ourselves as a natural part of that region, 
so I think it feels a little forced to a lot of people, and they're scared 
about it."[5] Detroit and the surrounding region constitute a major center 
of commerce and global trade, most notably as home to America's 'Big Three' 
automobile companies: General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler. Detroit's six-county 
Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) has a population of about 4.3 million 
and a workforce of about 2.1 million.[6] In May 2012, the Department of 
Labor reported metropolitan Detroit's unemployment rate at 9.9%.[7][8] 
The Detroit MSA had a Gross Metropolitan Product (GMP) of $197.7 billion 
in 2010.[9] Firms in the region pursue emerging technologies including 
biotechnology, nanotechnology, information technology, and hydrogen fuel 
cell development. Metro Detroit is one of the leading health care economies 
in the U.S., according to a 2003 study measuring health care industry components, 
with the region's hospital sector ranked fourth in the nation.[10] Casino 
gaming plays an important economic role, with Detroit the largest US city 
to offer casino resort hotels.[11] Caesars Windsor, Canada's largest, complements 
the MGM Grand Detroit, MotorCity Casino, and Greektown Casino in the city. 
The casino hotels contribute significant tax revenue along with thousands 
of jobs for residents. Gaming revenues have grown steadily, with Detroit 
ranked as the fifth largest gambling market in the United States for 2007. 
When Casino Windsor is included, Detroit's gambling market ranks either 
third or fourth. There are about four thousand factories in the area.[12] 
The domestic auto industry is primarily headquartered in Metro Detroit. 
The area is also an important source of engineering job opportunities.[13] 
A 2004 Border Transportation Partnership study showed that 150,000 jobs 
in the Detroit–Windsor region and $13 billion in annual production depend 
on the city's international border crossing.[14] A rise in automated manufacturing 
using robotic technology has created related industries in the area.[15][16] 
In addition to property taxes, residents pay an income tax rate of 2.50%.[17] 
Detroit automakers and local manufacturers have made significant restructurings 
in response to market competition. GM made its initial public offering 
(IPO) of stock in 2010, after bankruptcy, bailout, and restructuring by 
the federal government.[18] Domestic automakers reported significant profits 
in 2010, interpreted by some analysts as indicating the beginning of an 
industry rebound and an economic recovery for the Detroit area.[19][20][21] 
The region's nine county area with its population of 5.3 million has a 
workforce of about 2.6 million with about 247,000 businesses.[22] Fourteen 
Fortune 500 companies are based in metropolitan Detroit.[23] In April 2015, 
the metropolitan Detroit unemployment rate was 5.1 percent, a rate lower 
than the New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and Atlanta metropolitan areas.[24] 
Metro Detroit has made Michigan's economy a leader in information technology, 
biotechnology, and advanced manufacturing; Michigan ranks fourth nationally 
in high tech employment with 568,000 high tech workers, including 70,000 
in the automotive industry.[25][26] Michigan typically ranks second or 
third in overall Research & development (R&D) expenditures in the United 
States.[27][28] Metro Detroit is an important source of engineering and 
high tech job opportunities.[29] As the home of the "Big Three" American 
automakers (General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler), it is the world's traditional 
automotive center and a key pillar of the U.S. economy.[30][31][32] In 
the 2010s, the domestic auto industry accounts, directly and indirectly, 
for one of ten jobs in the United States making it a significant component 
for economic recovery.[33] For 2010, the domestic automakers have reported 
significant profits indicating the beginning of rebound.[19][20][34][35] 
A Center for Automotive Research (CAR) study estimated that tax revenue 
generated by the automotive industry in the United States for a single 
year, 2010, amounted to $91.5 billion in state and local tax revenue and 
additional $43 billion in federal tax revenue.[36] Metro Detroit serves 
as the headquarters for the United States Army TACOM Life Cycle Management 
Command (TACOM), with Selfridge Air National Guard Base. Detroit Metropolitan 
Airport (DTW) is one of America's largest and most recently modernized 
facilities, with six major runways, Boeing 747 maintenance facilities, 
and an attached Westin Hotel and Conference Center. Detroit is a major 
U.S. port[37] with an extensive toll-free expressway system.[38][39] A 
2004 Border Transportation Partnership study showed that 150,000 jobs in 
the Detroit-Windsor region and $13 billion in annual production depend 
on Detroit's international border crossing.[40] A source of top talent, 
the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor is one of the world's leading research 
institutions,[41] and Wayne State University in Detroit has the largest 
single-campus medical school in the United States.[42] Metro Detroit is 
a prominent business center, with major commercial districts such as the 
Detroit Financial District and Renaissance Center, the Southfield Town 
Center, and the historic New Center district with the Fisher Building and 
Cadillac Place. Among the major companies based in the area, aside from 
the major automotive companies, are BorgWarner (Auburn Hills), Quicken 
Loans (Downtown Detroit), TRW Automotive Holdings (Livonia), Ally Financial 
(Downtown Detroit), Carhartt (Dearborn), and Shinola (Detroit). Compuware, 
IBM, Google, and Covansys are among the information technology and software 
companies with a headquarters or major presence in or near Detroit. HP 
Enterprise Services makes Detroit its regional headquarters, and one of 
its largest global employment locations. The metropolitan Detroit area 
has one of the nation's largest office markets with 147,082,003 square 
feet.[43] Chrysler's largest corporate facility is its U.S. headquarters 
and technology center in the Detroit suburb of Auburn Hills, while Ford 
Motor Company is in Dearborn, directly adjacent to Detroit. In the decade 
leading up to 2006, downtown Detroit gained more than $15 billion in new 
investment from private and public sectors.[44] Tourism is an important 
component of the region's culture and economy, comprising nine percent 
of the area's two million jobs.[45] About 15.9 million people visit metro 
Detroit annually, spending about $4.8 billion.[46] Detroit is the largest 
city or metro area in the U.S. to offer casino resort hotels (MGM Grand 
Detroit, MotorCity Casino, Greektown Casino, and nearby Caesars Windsor).[11] 
Metro Detroit is a tourist destination easily accommodating super-sized 
crowds to events such as the Woodward Dream Cruise, North American International 
Auto Show, the Windsor-Detroit International Freedom Festival, 2009 NCAA 
Final Four, and Super Bowl XL. The Detroit International Riverfront links 
the Renaissance Center a series of venues, parks, restaurants, and hotels. 
In 2006, the four-day Motown Winter Blast drew a cold weather crowd of 
about 1.2 million people to Campus Martius Park area downtown.[47] Detroit's 
metroparks include fresh water beaches such as Metropolitan Beach, Kensington 
Beach, and Stony Creek Beach. Metro Detroit offers canoeing through the 
Huron-Clinton Metroparks as well as downhill and cross-county skiing at 
Alpine Valley Ski Resort, Mt. Brighton, Mt. Holly, and Pine Knob Ski Resort. 
The Detroit River International Wildlife Refuge is the only international 
wildlife preserve in North America, uniquely located in the heart of a 
major metropolitan area. The Refuge includes islands, coastal wetlands, 
marshes, shoals, and waterfront lands along 48 miles (77 km) of the Detroit 
River and Western Lake Erie shoreline. Metro Detroit contains a number 
of shopping malls, including the upscale Somerset Collection in Troy, Great 
Lakes Crossing outlet mall in Auburn Hills, and Twelve Oaks Mall in Novi, 
all of which are draws for tourists. The region's leading attraction is 
The Henry Ford, located in the Detroit suburb of Dearborn, which is America's 
largest indoor-outdoor museum complex.[48][49] The recent renovation of 
the Renaissance Center, a state of the art cruise ship dock, new stadiums, 
and a new RiverWalk have spurred economic development. Nearby Windsor has 
a 19-year-old drinking age with a myriad of entertainment to complement 
Detroit's Greektown district. Tourism planners have yet to tap the potential 
economic impact of the estimated 46 million people that live within a 300-mile 
(480-km) radius of Detroit.[4][50] Metro Detroit is a six-county metropolitan 
statistical area (MSA) with a population of 4,296,250—making it the 13th-largest 
MSA in the United States as enumerated by the 2010 United States Census 
(2010 Census).[56] The Detroit region is a nine-county Combined Statistical 
Area (CSA) with a population of 5,218,852—making it the 12th-largest CSA 
in the United States as enumerated by the 2010 Census.[55] The Detroit–Windsor 
area, a commercial link straddling the Canada-U.S. border, has a total 
population of about 5,700,000.[57] Immigration and the natural birth rate 
have not kept pace with the MSA's (nor CSA's) losses from death and emigration 
since the 2000 United States Census.[58] As of the census of 2010, there 
were 4,296,250 people, 1,682,111 households, and 1,110,454 families residing 
within the metropolitan statistical area. The census reported 70.1% White, 
22.8% African American, 0.3% Native American, 3.3% Asian, 0.02% Pacific 
Islander, 1.2% from other races, and 2.2% from two or more races. Hispanic 
or Latino of any race were 6.2% of the population. Arab Americans were 
at least 4.7% of the region's population (considered white in the US Census). 
As of the 2010 American Community Survey estimates, the median income for 
a household in the MSA was $48,198, and the median income for a family 
was $62,119. The per capita income for the MSA was $25,403. The region's 
foreign-born population sat at 8.6%. The region contains the largest concentration 
of Arab-Americans in the United States, particularly in Dearborn. The metro 
area also has the 25th largest Jewish population worldwide. In 1701, French 
officer Antoine de La Mothe Cadillac, along with fifty-one additional French-Canadians, 
founded a settlement called Fort Ponchartrain du Détroit, naming it after 
the comte de Pontchartrain, Minister of Marine under Louis XIV. The French 
legacy can be observed today in the names of many area cities (ex. Detroit, 
Grosse Pointe, Grosse Ile) and streets (ex. Gratiot, Beaubien, St. Antoine, 
Cadieux). Later came an influx of persons of British and German descent, 
followed by Polish, Irish, Italian, Lebanese, Assyrian/Chaldean, Greek, 
Jewish, and Belgian immigrants who made their way to the area in the early 
20th century and during and after World War II.[59] There was a large migration 
into the city from the rural South following World War I.[59] Today, the 
Detroit suburbs in Oakland County, Macomb County, and northeastern and 
northwestern Wayne County are predominantly Caucasian. Oakland County is 
among the most affluent counties in the United States with populations 
over one million.[60] In Wayne County, the city of Dearborn has a large 
concentration of Arab Americans, mainly Lebanese. Recently, the area has 
witnessed some growth in Albanian, Asian and Hispanic populations. Immigration 
continues to play a role in the region's projected growth with the population 
of Detroit-Ann Arbor-Flint (CMSA) estimated to be 6,191,000 by 2025.[61] 
In the 2000s, 115 of the 185 cities and townships in Metro Detroit were 
over 95% white. Suburban blacks in Metro Detroit were more concentrated, 
as 44% of the more than 240,000 suburban blacks lived in Detroit, Highland 
Park, Inkster, Pontiac, and Southfield.[62] The largest airport in the 
area is Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport (DTW) in Romulus, an 
international airport that serves as a commercial hub for Delta Air Lines 
and Spirit Airlines. The other airports in the metropolitan area are: Bus 
service for the metropolitan area is provided jointly by the Detroit Department 
of Transportation (DDOT) and Suburban Mobility Authority for Regional Transportation 
(SMART) which operate under a cooperative service and fare agreement. The 
elevated Detroit People Mover encircles downtown providing service to numerous 
downtown hotels, offices and attractions. The Woodward Avenue Streetcar 
is being developed to provide service between downtown and New Center, 
and the proposed SEMCOG Commuter Rail would extend from Detroit's New Center 
area to The Henry Ford, Dearborn, Detroit Metropolitan Airport, Ypsilanti, 
and Ann Arbor[63] The Regional Transit Authority (RTA) was established 
in December 2012 to coordinate the services of all existing transit providers, 
and to develop a bus rapid transit service along Woodward Avenue. The Metro 
Detroit area is linked by an advanced network of major roads and freeways 
which include Interstate highways. Traditionally, Detroiters refer to some 
of their freeways by name rather than route number. The Davison, Lodge, 
and Southfield freeways are almost always referred to by name rather than 
route number. Detroiters commonly precede freeway names with the word 'the' 
as in the Lodge, the Southfield, and the Davison. Those without names are 
referred to by number. Surface street navigation in Metro Detroit is commonly 
anchored by "mile roads", major east-west surface streets that are spaced 
at one-mile (1.6 km) intervals and increment as one travels north and away 
from the city center. Mile roads sometimes have two names, the numeric 
name (ex. 15 Mile Road) used in Macomb County and a local name (ex. Maple 
Road) used in Oakland County mostly. Professional sports has a major fan 
following in Metro Detroit. The area is home to many sports teams, including 
six professional teams in four major sports. The area's several universities 
field teams in a variety of sports. Michigan Stadium, home of the Michigan 
Wolverines, is the largest American football stadium in the world. Metro 
Detroit hosts many annual sporting events including auto and hydroplane 
racing. The area has hosted many major sporting events, including the 1994 
FIFA World Cup, Super Bowl XVI, Super Bowl XL, Wrestlemania 23, the 2005 
Major League Baseball All-Star Game, many Stanley Cup Championship rounds, 
the first two games of the 2006 World Series, and the last two games of 
the 2012 World Series. The Michigan International Speedway in Brooklyn 
hosts various Auto racing: NASCAR, IRL, and ARCA. The Detroit River hosts 
Hydroplane racing held by the APBA for the Detroit APBA Gold Cup. Metro 
Detroit is served by nine telephone area codes (six not including Windsor). 
The 313 area code, which used to encompass all of Southeast Michigan, is 
today confined exclusively to the City of Detroit and several neighboring 
Wayne County suburbs. Coordinates: 42°21′29″N 83°12′54″W﻿ / ﻿42.358°N 83.215°W﻿ 
