August 4, 2016 Citi Field The Mets–Yankees rivalry refers to the latest 
incarnation of the Subway Series, which is the interleague rivalry between 
New York City's Major League Baseball (MLB) teams: the New York Mets and 
the New York Yankees. The Mets are a member club of MLB's National League 
(NL) East division, and the Yankees are a member club of MLB's American 
League (AL) East division. Until interleague play started, the two teams 
had only met in exhibition games. Since the inception of interleague play, 
the two teams have played each other in every regular season since 1997. 
From 1999 through 2012, they have played six games per season: two three-game 
series (one series in each team's ballpark). In 2013, the two teams met 
four times: a pair of two-game series. Both clubs have qualified for the 
postseason in the same season on four separate occasions: 1999, 2000, 2006, 
and 2015, and faced off in the 2000 World Series. Analysts of the game 
have commented that the rivalry is the best reason for interleague play.[2] 
The Mets–Yankees rivalry has its origins in the histories of the Brooklyn 
Dodgers, New York Giants, and Yankees, the three Major League Baseball 
teams of New York City from 1903–57.[3] For most of that time, the Giants 
played in Manhattan, the Dodgers in Brooklyn, and the Yankees in the Bronx. 
Throughout their time in New York, the three teams chronicled a fierce 
intra-city rivalry. The Dodgers–Giants rivalry was formed by both teams' 
competition for dominance in the National League, exemplified by Bobby 
Thomson's Shot Heard 'Round the World in the 1951 National League tie-breaker 
series.[3] The Yankees, as the city's only American League team, would 
form the Giants–Yankees rivalry and Dodgers–Yankees rivalry around their 
multiple Subway Series competitions with the two teams, where the Yankees 
would compile a 10-3 record in the thirteen all-New York World Series.[3] 
However, in 1958, both of New York's National League teams moved to California, 
the Giants to San Francisco to become the San Francisco Giants, and the 
Dodgers to Los Angeles to become the Los Angeles Dodgers. The Yankees were 
New York City's only Major League Baseball team until 1962, when the expansion 
Mets joined the National League. The Mets sought to create a fan base from 
fans of the departed National League teams, and adopted the Giants' NY 
insignia in the Giant color of orange set against a cap of Dodger blue. 
They played their first two seasons in the Giants' old stadium, the Polo 
Grounds, before moving into Shea Stadium in the borough of Queens. Before 
the creation of Interleague play, teams from the National League never 
played teams from the American League in official games except during the 
World Series. The teams occasionally met in spring training exhibition 
games and from 1963 to 1983 they played annually in the Mayor's Trophy 
Game, an in-season exhibition game, where the Yankees posted a record of 
10–8–1 over the Mets.[4] In 1997, Major League Baseball scheduled official 
regular season games between the American and National Leagues for the 
first time. On June 16, the Mets and Yankees played their first official 
game at Yankee Stadium, which the Mets won 6–0 behind Dave Mlicki.[5] The 
Yankees won the next two games for a series win. The Mets acquired Mike 
Piazza for the 1998 season and made a run for the playoffs, but were eliminated 
in the last regular game series of the season by the Atlanta Braves. The 
Yankees won that year's interleague series at Shea Stadium two games to 
one, and would also win the 1998 World Series, the first of three straight 
titles for them. David Cone won 20 games in 1998 for the Yankees, just 
10 years after he accomplished the same feat for the Mets, becoming the 
only player to win 20 games for both teams. These interleague games between 
the Mets and Yankees would come to be referred to as a Subway Series, extending 
the use of that phrase outside the historical context of an all-New York 
World Series. In 1999, Major League Baseball expanded Interleague play, 
allowing the Mets and Yankees to host a series at their home stadiums. 
At Shea, the Mets won their first series against the Yankees, 2 games to 
1, though the regular season series was tied by virtue of a Yankees series 
win (2 to 1) at Yankee Stadium earlier that year. That year marked the 
first time both teams reached the playoffs in the same season, though the 
Mets needed an extra game for their first playoff appearance since losing 
the 1988 National League Championship Series.[6] Both the Mets and Yankees 
reached their respective League Championship Series and played their respective 
rivals. The Mets were defeated by their division rival Atlanta Braves in 
their LCS,[7] while the Yankees defeated longtime rival Boston Red Sox 
in that year's ALCS. The Yankees then swept the Braves in the 1999 World 
Series for their 25th franchise title. During the regular season on July 
8, 2000, the Yankees defeated the Mets by identical 4-2 scores in both 
ends of an unusual day-night doubleheader. With the first game played at 
Shea Stadium and the nightcap at Yankee Stadium, it was the first time 
since 1903 that two teams played two games in different stadiums on the 
same day. Dwight Gooden won the first game with a six inning effort in 
his first start since returning to the Yankees. Roger Clemens won the nightcap.[8] 
However, in the second game of that double header, an event occurred that 
made the rivalry between the two teams more contentious. Clemens hit Mets' 
star Mike Piazza in the helmet with an inside fastball, causing Piazza 
to suffer a concussion and placing him on the disabled list.[9] The Mets 
and Yankees returned to the playoffs that year and won their respective 
pennants, meeting in the 2000 World Series for their first championship 
contest. It was the Yankees' fourth appearance in five years and the Mets' 
first appearance since winning the title in 1986. It was the first Subway 
Series World Series since 1956. Game 1 went to extra innings in what was 
then the longest World Series game of all time, with the Yankees winning 
on a walk-off hit by former Met José Vizcaíno. Controversy ensued in Game 
2 when Yankees pitcher Roger Clemens faced Mets catcher Mike Piazza for 
the first time since the hit-by-pitch earlier that season. In the match-up, 
Piazza shattered his bat after fouling off one of Clemens' pitches, and 
the splintered bathead hurtled towards the mound. Clemens threw the bathead 
towards the baseline and nearly hit Piazza who had been running down the 
foul line. The incident caused both benches to clear. The Yankees won the 
game 6-5. The Mets won Game 3, snapping the Yankees' fourteen-game winning 
streak in World Series play dating back to 1996 and Yankee hurler Orlando 
"El Duque" Hernandez's previously undefeated postseason record (6–0). However, 
this would prove to be the only high point for the Mets. Derek Jeter hit 
a home run on the first pitch of Game 4, immediately shifting momentum 
back to the Yankees who would win the game. Footage of this home run currently 
serves as the background for the title screen of YES Network's "Yankeeography" 
series. Despite no game in the series being decided by more than two runs, 
the Yankees would only require five games to beat the Mets. Al Leiter, 
a former Yankee prospect, would take the mound for the Mets in Game 5 and 
lose. The Yankees clinched their third straight World Series championship 
when Mariano Rivera got Mike Piazza to pop up for the final out of Game 
5. World Series MVP Derek Jeter said of the Mets: "In my opinion, the Mets 
were the toughest team we have played in my five years here. Every one 
of these games could have gone either way. They could have given up after 
[losing] the first two games, but they never quit. You can't say enough 
about the New York Mets."[10] This World Series win was sense of revenge 
for Roger Clemens, because he won the World Series in the same stadium 
he lost it in 1986 while with the Red Sox. Members of the Mets' 1986 team 
threw out the ceremonial first pitch before the clinching game.[11][12][13] 
The 12.4 television rating and 21 share of the 2000 World Series was the 
worst in history when it was played.[14] For the Mets, the 12.4 rating 
was less than half of what they were when during their previous appearance, 
when Game 7 drew a 38.9 rating and 55 share. The Mets were aided the St. 
Louis Cardinals for this series.[7][15] The Cardinals' sweep of the Atlanta 
Braves in the NLDS eliminated what had been a particularly difficult opponent 
during the season for the Mets.,[7] and the Braves had eliminated the Mets 
from the playoffs on the final day of the 1998 season and in the 1999 NLCS.[7] 
The 2000 championship was the Yankees' last title until their 2009 World 
Series win. Since their appearance in 2000, the Mets would have several 
losing seasons until the emergence of David Wright and José Reyes. In 2001, 
there was a moment of peace in the rivalry in the aftermath of the attacks 
in New York City. During the weekend of September 21–23, Shea Stadium hosted 
the first professional sporting event in New York City since the attacks 
when the Mets hosted the Atlanta Braves while Yankee Stadium hosted a special 
memorial service titled "Prayer for America." On June 15, 2002, Roger Clemens 
faced the Mets for the first time at Shea Stadium since the Piazza controversy. 
Anticipation mounted about retaliation against Clemens. Mets manager Bobby 
Valentine chided Clemens by saying he wore a "skirt" when compared to past 
pitchers who threw hard at people like Bob Gibson and Don Drysdale because 
Clemens did not have to bat in the American League. When the game arrived, 
Clemens was forced to bat and Mets pitcher Shawn Estes attempted to hit 
Clemens in retaliation but instead threw a pitch behind Clemens, prompting 
the home plate umpire to warn both benches. Estes later homered off of 
Clemens as the Mets won the game 8-0.[16] In 2003, the Yankees become the 
first team to sweep the season series, winning all six games, including 
a two-park day-night doubleheader. In 2004, however, the Mets win the season 
series for the first time, going 4–2 and sweeping the three games at Shea 
Stadium. In 2005, the Mets signed Manager Willie Randolph, who coached 
with the Yankees for over a decade. Randolph played much of his career 
with the Yankees and also played for the Mets before retiring as a player. 
Because of his history with the Yankees championship teams of the 70s (as 
a player) and the 90s (as a coach), he holds a very cordial relationship 
with Yankee fans despite his tenure with the Mets organization, as noted 
by a Subway (a pun on the restaurant's name and the Subway Series) commercial 
featuring him and former Yankees manager Joe Torre, who had managed the 
Yankees during their most recent dynastic run. Torre had also been associated 
with the Mets as they were the last team he ever played for and the first 
team he ever managed. On August 2, 2008, less than two months after his 
abrupt and controversial dismissal as Mets manager, Randolph was greeted 
with a standing ovation by the Yankee Stadium crowd when he appeared in 
a Yankees uniform for the Old-Timers' Game.[17] On June 26, 2005, the Mets 
won their first series at Yankee Stadium and were three outs from a sweep 
when Jason Giambi's bases-loaded single off of Braden Looper in the ninth 
drove home the tying and winning runs for the Yankees, who forced a season 
series split with the Mets.[18] On May 19, 2006, in the first Subway Series 
of that year at Shea, the Yankees took the lead three times in the first 
four innings, but the Mets rallied each time against Randy Johnson and 
the game was tied 6-6 going into the bottom of the ninth. With two outs 
and runners on first and second, David Wright drives home the winning run 
for the Mets with a single off of Yankees' closer Mariano Rivera.[19] On 
May 20, 2006, less than 24 hours after the Mets' comeback win, Pedro Martínez 
and Duaner Sánchez kept the Yankees scoreless for eight innings while the 
Mets score four runs off of Mike Mussina. In the top of the ninth, however, 
closer Billy Wagner, who pitched a perfect ninth the night before to get 
the win, gave up four runs to tie the game and force extra innings. In 
the top of the 11th, Andy Phillips singled in the go-ahead run for the 
Yankees while Mariano Rivera pitched two shutout innings for the win.[20] 
History would be made at the 2006 Major League Baseball All-Star Game when 
two positions on both teams are manned by players from teams of the same 
city. David Wright and José Reyes started at third base and shortstop respectively 
for the National League while Alex Rodriguez and Derek Jeter started at 
the same respective positions for the American League. Both teams in 2006 
finished at the top of their division in the same season for the first 
time in history. For the Yankees, this was their ninth straight division 
title, while the Mets won their first division title since 1988. Despite 
sharing baseball's best regular season record (97-65), they would have 
disappointing postseasons as both lost en route to the two teams that eventually 
met in that year's World Series, the Detroit Tigers and St. Louis Cardinals. 
The teams' inverse success relationship was highlighted in 2007. On May 
29, the Yankees were tied for last place and 14.5 games back of the Boston 
Red Sox while the Mets were in first place ahead of the Atlanta Braves 
by four games, with the lead being as high as seven in mid-September. A 
late season meltdown led to the Mets being eliminated from playoff contention, 
losing the NL East title to the Philadelphia Phillies on the last day of 
the season. On the other hand, the Yankees, though unable to finish first 
in the AL East for the first time since 1997, rebounded from their losing 
ways and clinched their 13th consecutive playoff berth. In an article written 
in the New York Daily News on March 24, 2008, Alex Rodriguez said how he 
regretted signing with the Texas Rangers (the team the Yankees acquired 
him from) in the first place and wished he had signed with the Mets rather 
than Texas. Rodriguez grew up a Met fan and of former Met first baseman 
turned announcer Keith Hernandez.[21] Rodriguez stated how he listened 
to his agent Scott Boras about taking more money instead and did not want 
to make the same mistake of not being on a team he liked playing for by 
leaving the Yankees.[22] On June 27 of that year, in the first game of 
a two-stadium, day-night doubleheader against the Yankees, Carlos Delgado 
scores 9 RBIs (including a grand slam) in a 15–6 victory for the Mets, 
setting a team record for most RBIs in a single game and tying the record 
for most RBIs in a single game by a visiting player at Yankee Stadium. 
For just the second time, the Mets won the season series against the Yankees, 
4–2, including the Mets' only sweep at the old Yankee Stadium. Ironically, 
the 2008 season marked the first time since 1993 that both the Yankees 
and Mets failed to qualify for postseason, the first time for the Yankees 
since that year and the second straight year where the Mets were eliminated 
on the last day of the season. It was also the last year both teams played 
at their old respective ballparks, Yankee Stadium and Shea Stadium. Yogi 
Berra was present at the closing ceremonies of both stadiums. Both teams 
finished with the same record (89-73) that year. The 2009 season was the 
first year that both teams played in their new stadiums, Mets at Citi Field 
and the Yankees at the new Yankee Stadium. The Yankees took it one step 
further opened their new stadium with their 27th World Series championship 
against the Philadelphia Phillies, the defending champions, becoming the 
first team to inaugurate two stadiums with World Series wins. In 1998, 
the Independent Budget Office of the city of New York published a study 
on the economic effect of the city's two Major League Baseball teams. The 
study included an analysis of where fans of both the Mets and the Yankees 
resided. The study found that 39% of Mets fans lived in one of the five 
boroughs of New York, 49% in the tri-state area outside the city and 12% 
elsewhere. Mets fans were more likely to be found in Queens, Brooklyn, 
Staten Island and the Long Island counties of Nassau and Suffolk, whereas 
Manhattan, the Bronx, New Jersey, Connecticut, and the counties of Westchester 
and Rockland, as well as the upper Hudson Valley and the upstate New York 
region, leaned more towards the Yankees.[37] In what The Wall Street Journal 
called an "Exclusive Poll" conducted in 2010, the newspaper compared the 
differences between Mets fans and Yankees fans.[38] The poll found: Historically, 
Yankees fans tend to root for the New York Giants (who once played in Yankee 
Stadium) and the New York Rangers (all three being the older, more established 
teams), while Mets fans tend to root for the New York Jets (who once played 
in Shea Stadium) and New York Islanders.[39] However, some Yankees fans 
root for the Jets (both teams have intense rivalries with Boston, as the 
fierce Yankees–Red Sox rivalry has led to the rivalry between the New York 
Jets and the New England Patriots and the New York Knicks and the Boston 
Celtics),[40] while some Mets fans root for the Giants as part of their 
hatred for their counterparts in Philadelphia (Phillies and Eagles), as 
well as the rivalry between the New York Rangers and the Philadelphia Flyers 
in the National Hockey League.[41] In fact, the differing allegiances between 
Met and Yankee fans and their respective football team could be best seen 
in the Jets 30 point 4th quarter comeback over the Dolphins, which took 
place during the 2000 World Series. There were "Let's Go Yankees" chants, 
which were later countered by "Let's Go Mets" chants or "Yankees Suck". 
There are also many Mets/Football Giants fans. These fans are offspring 
of Dodgers/Giants Baseball fans of the 1940s and 50s, who were also fans 
of the great NY Giants Football Teams of the 1950s (when they were NY's 
only pro-football team). However, that fan-base was cut dramatically when 
the Jets arrived in the 1960s. Many argue that this group of Mets/Giants 
fans were split into Mets/Jets fans because you could not get a seat at 
a Giants game in Yankee Stadium, while you could get season tickets to 
the NY Jets who now played in the Mets ballpark (Shea Stadium). And, to 
boot, it made sense to some because the Jets were an exciting team led 
by Joe Namath (even winning the Super Bowl in 1969...same year the Miracle 
Mets won the World Series), whereas the Giants were a dreadful team in 
the 1960s-early 70's. You now had two distinct groups....Mets/Giants fans 
and Mets/Jets fans. Outside of Major League Baseball, the teams rivalry 
has shown passions from fans of both sides. "OK, here's what I don't understand 
about Yankees fans: The Mets stink. We're awful. And the Yankees are usually 
really good. So why do you boo us? You should feel badly for us. We root 
for this awful team that never wins and yet the Yankees fans boo us. I 
