Miami (/maɪˈæmi/; Spanish pronunciation: [maiˈami][7]) is a seaport city 
at the southeastern corner of the U.S. state of Florida and its Atlantic 
coast. As the seat of Miami-Dade County, the municipality is the principal, 
central, and most populous of its metropolitan area and part of the second-most 
populous metropolis in the southeastern United States.[8][9] According 
to the U.S. Census Bureau, Miami's metro area is the eighth-most populous 
and fourth-largest urban area in the U.S., with a population of around 
5.5 million.[10][11] Miami is a major center, and a leader in finance, 
commerce, culture, media, entertainment, the arts, and international trade.[12][13] 
In 2012, Miami was classified as an Alpha−World City in the World Cities 
Study Group's inventory.[14] In 2010, Miami ranked seventh in the United 
States in terms of finance, commerce, culture, entertainment, fashion, 
education, and other sectors. It ranked 33rd among global cities.[15] In 
2008, Forbes magazine ranked Miami "America's Cleanest City", for its year-round 
good air quality, vast green spaces, clean drinking water, clean streets, 
and citywide recycling programs.[16] According to a 2009 UBS study of 73 
world cities, Miami was ranked as the richest city in the United States, 
and the world's fifth-richest city in terms of purchasing power.[17] Miami 
is nicknamed the "Capital of Latin America" [1] and is the largest city 
with a Cuban-American plurality.[18] Miami has the third tallest skyline 
in the US with over 300 high-rises. Downtown Miami is home to the largest 
concentration of international banks in the United States, and many large 
national and international companies.[19][20] The Civic Center is a major 
center for hospitals, research institutes, medical centers, and biotechnology 
industries. For more than two decades, the Port of Miami, known as the 
"Cruise Capital of the World", has been the number one cruise passenger 
port in the world. It accommodates some of the world's largest cruise ships 
and operations, and is the busiest port in both passenger traffic and cruise 
lines.[21][22] Metropolitan Miami is the major tourism hub in the American 
South, number two in the U.S. after New York City and number 13 in the 
world, including the popular destination of Miami Beach.[23] The Miami 
area was inhabited for thousands of years by indigenous cultures. The Tequestas 
occupied the area for a thousand years before encountering Europeans. An 
Indian village of hundreds of people dating to 500–600 B.C. was located 
at the mouth of the Miami River.[24] In 1566 the explorer, Pedro Menéndez 
de Avilés, claimed it for Spain. A Spanish mission was constructed one 
year later in 1567. Spain and Great Britain successively "controlled" Florida, 
and Spain ceded it to the United States in 1821. In 1836, the US built 
Fort Dallas as part of its development of the Florida Territory and attempt 
to suppress and remove the Seminole. The Miami area subsequently became 
a site of fighting during the Second Seminole War. Miami is noted as "the 
only major city in the United States conceived by a woman, Julia Tuttle",[25] 
a local citrus grower and a wealthy Cleveland native. The Miami area was 
better known as "Biscayne Bay Country" in the early years of its growth. 
In the late 19th century, reports described the area as a promising wilderness.[26] 
The area was also characterized as "one of the finest building sites in 
Florida."[27] The Great Freeze of 1894–95 hastened Miami's growth, as the 
crops of the Miami area were the only ones in Florida that survived. Julia 
Tuttle subsequently convinced Henry Flagler, a railroad tycoon, to expand 
his Florida East Coast Railway to the region, for which she became known 
as "the mother of Miami."[28][29] Miami was officially incorporated as 
a city on July 28, 1896 with a population of just over 300.[30] It was 
named for the nearby Miami River, derived from Mayaimi, the historic name 
of Lake Okeechobee.[31] Black labor played a crucial role in Miami's early 
development. During the beginning of the 20th century, migrants from the 
Bahamas and African-Americans constituted 40 percent of the city's population.[32]:25 
Whatever their role in the city's growth, their community's growth was 
limited to a small space. When landlords began to rent homes to African-Americans 
in neighborhoods close to Avenue J (what would later become NW Fifth Avenue), 
a gang of white men with torches visited the renting families and warned 
them to move or be bombed.[32]:33 During the early 20th century, northerners 
were attracted to the city, and Miami prospered during the 1920s with an 
increase in population and infrastructure. The legacy of Jim Crow was embedded 
in these developments. Miami's chief of police, H. Leslie Quigg, did not 
hide the fact that he, like many other white Miami police officers, was 
a member of the Ku Klux Klan. Unsurprisingly, these officers enforced social 
codes far beyond the written law. Quigg, for example, "personally and publicly 
beat a colored bellboy to death for speaking directly to a white woman."[32]:53 
The collapse of the Florida land boom of the 1920s, the 1926 Miami Hurricane, 
and the Great Depression in the 1930s slowed development. When World War 
II began, Miami, well-situated on the southern coast of Florida, became 
a base for US defense against German submarines. The war brought an increase 
in Miami's population; by 1940, 172,172 people lived in the city. After 
Fidel Castro rose to power in Cuba in 1959, many wealthy Cubans sought 
refuge in Miami, further increasing the population. The city developed 
businesses and cultural amenities as part of the New South. In the 1980s 
and 1990s, South Florida weathered social problems related to drug wars, 
immigration from Haiti and Latin America, and the widespread destruction 
of Hurricane Andrew.[33] Racial and cultural tensions were sometimes sparked, 
but the city developed in the latter half of the 20th century as a major 
international, financial, and cultural center. It is the second-largest 
US city (after El Paso, Texas) with a Spanish-speaking majority, and the 
largest city with a Cuban-American plurality.[18] Miami and its metropolitan 
area grew from just over 1,000 residents to nearly 5.5 million residents 
in just 110 years (1896–2006). The city's nickname, The Magic City, comes 
from this rapid growth. Winter visitors remarked that the city grew so 
much from one year to the next that it was like magic.[33] Miami and its 
suburbs are located on a broad plain between the Florida Everglades to 
the west and Biscayne Bay to the east, which also extends from Florida 
Bay north to Lake Okeechobee. The elevation of the area never rises above 
40 ft (12 m)[34] and averages at around 6 ft (1.8 m)[35] above mean sea 
level in most neighborhoods, especially near the coast. The highest undulations 
are found along the coastal Miami Rock Ridge, whose substrate underlies 
most of the eastern Miami metropolitan region. The main portion of the 
city lies on the shores of Biscayne Bay which contains several hundred 
natural and artificially created barrier islands, the largest of which 
contains Miami Beach and South Beach. The Gulf Stream, a warm ocean current, 
runs northward just 15 miles (24 km) off the coast, allowing the city's 
climate to stay warm and mild all year. The surface bedrock under the Miami 
area is called Miami oolite or Miami limestone. This bedrock is covered 
by a thin layer of soil, and is no more than 50 feet (15 m) thick. Miami 
limestone formed as the result of the drastic changes in sea level associated 
with recent glaciations or ice ages. Beginning some 130,000 years ago the 
Sangamonian Stage raised sea levels to approximately 25 feet (8 m) above 
the current level. All of southern Florida was covered by a shallow sea. 
Several parallel lines of reef formed along the edge of the submerged Florida 
plateau, stretching from the present Miami area to what is now the Dry 
Tortugas. The area behind this reef line was in effect a large lagoon, 
and the Miami limestone formed throughout the area from the deposition 
of oolites and the shells of bryozoans. Starting about 100,000 years ago 
the Wisconsin glaciation began lowering sea levels, exposing the floor 
of the lagoon. By 15,000 years ago, the sea level had dropped to 300 to 
350 feet (90 to 110 m) below the contemporary level. The sea level rose 
quickly after that, stabilizing at the current level about 4000 years ago, 
leaving the mainland of South Florida just above sea level. Beneath the 
plain lies the Biscayne Aquifer,[37] a natural underground source of fresh 
water that extends from southern Palm Beach County to Florida Bay, with 
its highest point peaking around the cities of Miami Springs and Hialeah. 
Most of the Miami metropolitan area obtains its drinking water from this 
aquifer. As a result of the aquifer, it is not possible to dig more than 
15 to 20 ft (5 to 6 m) beneath the city without hitting water, which impedes 
underground construction, though some underground parking garages exist. 
For this reason, the mass transit systems in and around Miami are elevated 
or at-grade.[citation needed] Most of the western fringes of the city extend 
into the Everglades, a subtropical marshland located in the southern portion 
of the U.S. state of Florida. Alligators have ventured into Miami communities 
and on major highways. In terms of land area, Miami is one of the smallest 
major cities in the United States. According to the US Census Bureau, the 
city encompasses a total area of 55.27 sq mi (143.1 km2). Of that area, 
35.67 sq mi (92.4 km2) is land and 19.59 sq mi (50.7 km2) is water. That 
means Miami comprises over 400,000 people in 35 square miles (91 km2), 
making it one of the most densely populated cities in the United States, 
along with New York City, San Francisco, Boston, Chicago, and Philadelphia. 
Miami is partitioned into many different sections, roughly into North, 
South, West and Downtown. The heart of the city is Downtown Miami and is 
technically on the eastern side of the city. This area includes Brickell, 
Virginia Key, Watson Island, and PortMiami. Downtown is South Florida's 
central business district, and Florida's largest and most influential central 
business district. Downtown has the largest concentration of international 
banks in the U.S. along Brickell Avenue. Downtown is home to many major 
banks, courthouses, financial headquarters, cultural and tourist attractions, 
schools, parks and a large residential population. East of Downtown, across 
Biscayne Bay is South Beach. Just northwest of Downtown, is the Civic Center, 
which is Miami's center for hospitals, research institutes and biotechnology 
with hospitals such as Jackson Memorial Hospital, Miami VA Hospital, and 
the University of Miami's Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine. The southern 
side of Miami includes Coral Way, The Roads and Coconut Grove. Coral Way 
is a historic residential neighborhood built in 1922 connecting Downtown 
with Coral Gables, and is home to many old homes and tree-lined streets. 
Coconut Grove was established in 1825 and is the location of Miami's City 
Hall in Dinner Key, the Coconut Grove Playhouse, CocoWalk, many nightclubs, 
bars, restaurants and bohemian shops, and as such, is very popular with 
local college students. It is a historic neighborhood with narrow, winding 
roads, and a heavy tree canopy. Coconut Grove has many parks and gardens 
such as Villa Vizcaya, The Kampong, The Barnacle Historic State Park, and 
is the home of the Coconut Grove Convention Center and numerous historic 
homes and estates. The western side of Miami includes Little Havana, West 
Flagler, and Flagami, and is home to many of the city's traditionally immigrant 
neighborhoods. Although at one time a mostly Jewish neighborhood, today 
western Miami is home to immigrants from mostly Central America and Cuba, 
while the west central neighborhood of Allapattah is a multicultural community 
of many ethnicities. The northern side of Miami includes Midtown, a district 
with a great mix of diversity with many West Indians, Hispanics, European 
Americans, bohemians, and artists. Edgewater, and Wynwood, are neighborhoods 
of Midtown and are made up mostly of high-rise residential towers and are 
home to the Adrienne Arsht Center for the Performing Arts. The wealthier 
residents usually live in the northeastern part, in Midtown, the Design 
District, and the Upper East Side, with many sought after 1920s homes and 
home of the MiMo Historic District, a style of architecture originated 
in Miami in the 1950s. The northern side of Miami also has notable African 
American and Caribbean immigrant communities such as Little Haiti, Overtown 
(home of the Lyric Theater), and Liberty City. Miami has a tropical monsoon 
climate (Köppen climate classification Am)[38][39] with a marked drier 
season in the winter. Its sea-level elevation, coastal location, position 
just above the Tropic of Cancer, and proximity to the Gulf Stream shape 
its climate. With January averaging 68.2 °F (20.1 °C), winter features 
highs generally ranging between 73–80 °F (23–27 °C). Cool air usually settles 
after the passage of a cold front, which produces much of the little amount 
of rainfall during the season. Lows fall below 50 °F (10 °C), an average 
of 10-15 nights during the winter season following the passage of cold 
fronts. The wet season begins some time in May, ending in mid-October. 
During this period, temperatures are in the mid 80s to low 90s (29–35 °C), 
accompanied by high humidity, though the heat is often relieved by afternoon 
thunderstorms or a sea breeze that develops off the Atlantic Ocean, which 
then allow lower temperatures, but conditions still remain very muggy. 
Much of the year's 55.9 inches (1,420 mm) of rainfall occurs during this 
period. Dew points in the warm months range from 71.9 °F (22.2 °C) in June 
to 73.7 °F (23.2 °C) in August.[40] Extremes range from 27 °F (−2.8 °C) 
on February 3, 1917 to 100 °F (38 °C) on July 21, 1940.[41] While Miami 
has never officially recorded snowfall at any official weather station 
since records have been kept, snow flurries fell in some parts of Miami 
on January 19, 1977.[42][43][44][45] Hurricane season officially runs from 
June 1 through November 30, although hurricanes can develop beyond those 
dates. The most likely time for Miami to be hit is during the peak of the 
Cape Verde season, which is mid-August through the end of September.[46] 
Although tornadoes are uncommon in the area, one struck in 1925 and again 
in 1997. Miami falls under the USDA 10b/11a Plant Hardiness zone.[47] The 
city proper is home to less than one-thirteenth of the population of South 
Florida. Miami is the 42nd-most populous city in the United States. The 
Miami metropolitan area, which includes Miami-Dade, Broward and Palm Beach 
counties, had a combined population of more than 5.5 million people, ranked 
seventh largest in the United States,[53] and is the largest metropolitan 
area in the Southeastern United States. As of 2008[update], the United 
Nations estimates that the Miami Urban Agglomeration is the 44th-largest 
in the world.[54] The 2010 US Census file for Hispanic or Latino origin 
reports[55] that 34.4% of the population were of Cuban origin, 15.8% shared 
a Central American background (7.2% Nicaraguan, 5.8% Honduran, 1.2% Salvadoran, 
and 1.0% Guatemalan), 8.7% were of South American descent (3.2% Colombian, 
1.4% Venezuelan, 1.2% Peruvian, 1.2% Argentinean, and 0.7% Ecuadorian), 
4.0% had other Hispanic or Latino origins (0.5% Spaniard), 3.2% descended 
from Puerto Ricans, 2.4% were Dominican, and 1.5% had Mexican ancestry. 
As of 2010[update], those of African ancestry accounted for 19.2% of Miami's 
population, which includes African Americans. Out of the 19.2%, 5.6% were 
West Indian or Afro-Caribbean American (4.4% Haitian, 0.4% Jamaican, 0.4% 
Bahamian, 0.1% British West Indian, and 0.1% Trinidadian and Tobagonian, 
0.1% Other or Unspecified West Indian),[56] 3.0% were Black Hispanics,[55] 
and 0.4% were Subsaharan African.[57][58] As of 2010[update], those of 
(non-Hispanic white) European ancestry accounted for 11.9% of Miami's population. 
Out of the 11.9%, 1.7% were German, 1.6% Italian, 1.4% Irish, 1.0% English, 
0.8% French, 0.6% Russian, and 0.5% were Polish.[57][58] As of 2010[update], 
those of Asian ancestry accounted for 1.0% of Miami's population. Out of 
the 1.0%, 0.3% were Indian people/Indo-Caribbean American (1,206 people), 
0.3% Chinese (1,804 people), 0.2% Filipino (647 people), 0.1% were other 
Asian (433 people), 0.1% Japanese (245 people), 0.1% Korean (213 people), 
and 0.0% were Vietnamese (125 people).[57] In 2010, 1.9% of the population 
considered themselves to be of only American ancestry (regardless of race 
or ethnicity.)[57][58] And 0.5% were of Arab ancestry, as of 2010[update].[57] 
As of 2010[update], there were 158,317 households of which 14.0% were vacant. 
22.7% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 31.3% were married 
couples living together, 18.1% have a female head of household with no 
husband present, and 43.1% were non-families. 33.3% of all households were 
made up of individuals and 11.3% had someone living alone who was 65 years 
of age or older (4.0% male and 7.3% female.) The average household size 
was 2.47 and the average family size was 3.15.[57][59] In 2010, the city 
population was spread out with 18.8% under the age of 18, 9.4% from 18 
to 24, 33.1% from 25 to 44, 25.0% from 45 to 64, and 13.6% who were 65 
years of age or older. The median age was 38.8 years. For every 100 females 
there were 99.2 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 
98.1 males.[57][59] As of 2010[update], the median income for a household 
in the city was $29,621, and the median income for a family was $33,379. 
Males had a median income of $27,849 versus $24,518 for females. The per 
capita income for the city was $19,745. About 22.2% of families and 27.3% 
of the population were below the poverty line, including 37.1% of those 
under age 18 and 32.8% of those aged 65 or over.[60] In 2010, 58.1% of 
the county's population was foreign born, with 41.1% being naturalized 
American citizens. Of foreign-born residents, 95.4% were born in Latin 
America, 2.4% were born in Europe, 1.4% born in Asia, 0.5% born in Africa, 
0.2% in North America, and 0.1% were born in Oceania.[58] In 2004, the 
United Nations Development Program (UNDP) reported that Miami had the highest 
proportion of foreign-born residents of any major city worldwide (59%), 
followed by Toronto (50%). In 1960, non-Hispanic whites represented 80% 
of Miami-Dade county's population.[61] In 1970, the Census Bureau reported 
Miami's population as 45.3% Hispanic, 32.9% non-Hispanic White, and 22.7% 
Black.[62] Miami's explosive population growth has been driven by internal 
migration from other parts of the country, primarily up until the 1980s, 
as well as by immigration, primarily from the 1960s to the 1990s. Today, 
immigration to Miami has slowed significantly and Miami's growth today 
is attributed greatly to its fast urbanization and high-rise construction, 
which has increased its inner city neighborhood population densities, such 
as in Downtown, Brickell, and Edgewater, where one area in Downtown alone 
saw a 2,069% increase in population in the 2010 Census. Miami is regarded 
as more of a multicultural mosaic, than it is a melting pot, with residents 
still maintaining much of, or some of their cultural traits. The overall 
culture of Miami is heavily influenced by its large population of Hispanics 
and blacks mainly from the Caribbean islands. As of 2010[update], 70.2% 
of Miami's population age five and over spoke only Spanish at home while 
22.7% of the population spoke English at home. About 6.3% spoke other Indo-European 
languages at home. About 0.4% spoke Asian languages or Pacific Islander 
languages/Oceanic languages at home. The remaining 0.3% of the population 
spoke other languages at home. In total, 77.3% spoke another language other 
than English.[57] As of 2000, 66.75% of residents spoke Spanish at home, 
while those who only spoke English made up 25.45%. Speakers of Haitian 
Creole (French-based) were 5.20%, French speakers comprised 0.76% of the 
population, and Portuguese at 0.41%.[66] Among U.S. cities, Miami has one 
of the highest proportions of residents who speak languages other than 
English at home (74.55% in 2000).[66] Due to English-speakers moving away 
from the area, the percentage of residents who speak only English is expected 
to continue to decline.[67] Christianity is the most prevalently practiced 
religion in Miami (68%), according to a 2014 study by the Pew Research 
Center, with 39% professing attendance at a variety of churches that could 
be considered Protestant, and 27% professing Roman Catholic beliefs.[68][69] 
followed by Judaism (8%); Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism, and a variety of other 
religions have smaller followings; atheism or no self-identifying organized 
religious affiliation was practiced by 24%. There has been a Norwegian 
Seamen's church in Miami since the early 1980s. In November 2011, Crown 
Princess Mette-Marit opened a new building for the church. The church was 
built as a center for the 10,000 Scandinavians that live in Florida. Around 
4,000 of them are Norwegian. The church is also an important place for 
the 150 Norwegians that work at Disney World.[70] Organizations such as 
the Miami-Dade Salvation Army and its iconic Red Kettle Christmas Campaign, 
Hands On Miami, City Year Miami, Human Services Coalition of South Florida, 
and Citizens for a Better South Florida, among many other organizations 
have been working to engage Miamians in volunteerism. Miami is a major 
center of commerce, finance, and boasts a strong international business 
community. According to the ranking of world cities undertaken by the Globalization 
and World Cities Study Group & Network (GaWC) in 2010 and based on the 
level of presence of global corporate service organizations, Miami is considered 
a "Alpha minus world city".[71] Miami has a Gross Metropolitan Product 
of $257 billion and is ranked 20th worldwide in GMP, and 11th in the United 
States.[72][73] Several large companies are headquartered in or around 
Miami, including but not limited to: Akerman Senterfitt, Alienware, Arquitectonica, 
Arrow Air, Bacardi, Benihana, Brightstar Corporation, Burger King, Celebrity 
Cruises, Carnival Corporation, Carnival Cruise Lines, Crispin Porter + 
Bogusky, Duany Plater-Zyberk & Company, Espírito Santo Financial Group, 
Fizber.com, Greenberg Traurig, Holland & Knight, Inktel Direct, Interval 
International, Lennar, Navarro Discount Pharmacies, Norwegian Cruise Lines, 
Oceania Cruises, Perry Ellis International, RCTV International, Royal Caribbean 
Cruise Lines, Ryder Systems, Seabourn Cruise Line, Sedano's, Telefónica 
USA, UniMÁS, Telemundo, Univision, U.S. Century Bank, Vector Group, and 
World Fuel Services. Because of its proximity to Latin America, Miami serves 
as the headquarters of Latin American operations for more than 1400 multinational 
corporations, including AIG, American Airlines, Cisco, Disney, Exxon, FedEx, 
Kraft Foods, LEO Pharma Americas, Microsoft, Yahoo, Oracle, SBC Communications, 
Sony, Symantec, Visa International, and Wal-Mart.[74] Miami is a major 
television production center, and the most important city in the U.S. for 
Spanish language media. Univisión, Telemundo and UniMÁS have their headquarters 
in Miami, along with their production studios. The Telemundo Television 
Studios produces much of the original programming for Telemundo, such as 
their telenovelas and talk shows. In 2011, 85% of Telemundo's original 
programming was filmed in Miami.[75] Miami is also a major music recording 
center, with the Sony Music Latin and Universal Music Latin Entertainment 
headquarters in the city, along with many other smaller record labels. 
The city also attracts many artists for music video and film shootings. 
Since 2001, Miami has been undergoing a large building boom with more than 
50 skyscrapers rising over 400 feet (122 m) built or currently under construction 
in the city. Miami's skyline is ranked third-most impressive in the U.S., 
behind New York City and Chicago, and 19th in the world according to the 
Almanac of Architecture and Design.[76] The city currently has the eight 
tallest (as well as thirteen of the fourteen tallest) skyscrapers in the 
state of Florida, with the tallest being the 789-foot (240 m) Four Seasons 
Hotel & Tower.[77] During the mid-2000s, the city witnessed its largest 
real estate boom since the Florida land boom of the 1920s. During this 
period, the city had well over a hundred approved high-rise construction 
projects in which 50 were actually built.[78] In 2007, however, the housing 
market crashed causing lots of foreclosures on houses.[79] This rapid high-rise 
construction, has led to fast population growth in the city's inner neighborhoods, 
primarily in Downtown, Brickell and Edgewater, with these neighborhoods 
becoming the fastest-growing areas in the city. The Miami area ranks 8th 
in the nation in foreclosures.[80] In 2011, Forbes magazine named Miami 
the second-most miserable city in the United States due to its high foreclosure 
rate and past decade of corruption among public officials.[81] In 2012, 
Forbes magazine named Miami the most miserable city in the United States 
because of a crippling housing crisis that has cost multitudes of residents 
their homes and jobs. The metro area has one of the highest violent crime 
rates in the country and workers face lengthy daily commutes.[82] Like 
other metro areas in the United States, crime in Miami is localized to 
specific neighborhoods.[83] Miami International Airport and PortMiami are 
among the nation's busiest ports of entry, especially for cargo from South 
America and the Caribbean. The Port of Miami is the world's busiest cruise 
port, and MIA is the busiest airport in Florida, and the largest gateway 
between the United States and Latin America.[84] Additionally, the city 
has the largest concentration of international banks in the country, primarily 
along Brickell Avenue in Brickell, Miami's financial district. Due to its 
strength in international business, finance and trade, many international 
banks have offices in Downtown such as Espírito Santo Financial Group, 
which has its U.S. headquarters in Miami. Miami was also the host city 
of the 2003 Free Trade Area of the Americas negotiations, and is one of 
the leading candidates to become the trading bloc's headquarters. As of 
2011[update], PortMiami accounts for 176,000 jobs and has an annual economic 
impact in Miami of $18 billion. It is the 11th-largest cargo container 
port in the United States. In 2010, a record 4.33 million passengers traveled 
through PortMiami. One in seven of all the world's cruise passengers start 
from Miami.[citation needed] Tourism is also an important industry in Miami. 
Along with finance and business, the beaches, conventions, festivals and 
events draw over 38 million visitors annually into the city, from across 
the country and around the world, spending $17.1 billion.[86][87] The Art 
Deco District in South Beach, is reputed as one of the most glamorous in 
the world for its nightclubs, beaches, historical buildings, and shopping. 
Annual events such as the Sony Ericsson Open, Art Basel, Winter Music Conference, 
South Beach Wine & Food Festival, and Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week Miami 
attract millions to the metropolis every year. Miami is the home to the 
National Hurricane Center and the headquarters of the United States Southern 
Command, responsible for military operations in Central and South America. 
In addition to these roles, Miami is also an industrial center, especially 
for stone quarrying and warehousing. These industries are centered largely 
on the western fringes of the city near Doral and Hialeah. According to 
the U.S. Census Bureau, in 2004, Miami had the third highest incidence 
of family incomes below the federal poverty line in the United States, 
making it the third poorest city in the USA, behind only Detroit, Michigan 
(ranked #1) and El Paso, Texas (ranked #2). Miami is also one of the very 
few cities where its local government went bankrupt, in 2001.[88] However, 
since that time, Miami has experienced a revival: in 2008, Miami was ranked 
as "America's Cleanest City" according to Forbes for its year-round good 
air quality, vast green spaces, clean drinking water, clean streets and 
citywide recycling programs.[16] In a 2009 UBS study of 73 world cities, 
Miami was ranked as the richest city in the United States (of four U.S. 
cities included in the survey) and the world's fifth-richest city, in terms 
of purchasing power.[17] In addition to such annual festivals like Calle 
Ocho Festival and Carnaval Miami, Miami is home to many entertainment venues, 
theaters, museums, parks and performing arts centers. The newest addition 
to the Miami arts scene is the Adrienne Arsht Center for the Performing 
Arts, the second-largest performing arts center in the United States after 
the Lincoln Center in New York City, and is the home of the Florida Grand 
Opera. Within it are the Ziff Ballet Opera House, the center's largest 
venue, the Knight Concert Hall, the Carnival Studio Theater and the Peacock 
Rehearsal Studio. The center attracts many large-scale operas, ballets, 
concerts, and musicals from around the world and is Florida's grandest 
performing arts center. Other performing arts venues in Miami include the 
Gusman Center for the Performing Arts, Coconut Grove Playhouse, Colony 
Theatre, Lincoln Theatre, New World Center, Actor's Playhouse at the Miracle 
Theatre, Jackie Gleason Theatre, Manuel Artime Theater, Ring Theatre, Playground 
Theatre, Wertheim Performing Arts Center, the Fair Expo Center and the 
Bayfront Park Amphitheater for outdoor music events. The city attracts 
a large number of musicians, singers, actors, dancers, and orchestral players. 
Miami has numerous orchestras, symphonies and performing art conservatories. 
Some of these include the Florida Grand Opera, FIU School of Music, Frost 
School of Music, Miami City Ballet, Miami Conservatory, Miami Wind Symphony, 
New World School of the Arts, New World Symphony Orchestra, as well as 
the music, theater and art schools of the city's many universities and 
schools. Miami is also a major fashion center, home to models and some 
of the top modeling agencies in the world. Miami is also host to many fashion 
shows and events, including the annual Miami Fashion Week and the Mercedes-Benz 
Fashion Week Miami held in the Wynwood Art District.[89] The city is home 
to numerous museums as well, many of which are in Downtown. These include 
the Frost Art Museum, HistoryMiami, Miami Art Museum, Miami Children's 
Museum, Miami Science Museum, Vizcaya Museum and Gardens, and the Miami-Dade 
Cultural Center, home of the Miami Main Library. Miami is also the home 
of the world's largest art exhibition, dubbed the "Olympics of Art", Art 
Basel Miami. The event is held annually in December, and attracts thousands 
of visitors from around the world. Miami music is varied. Cubans brought 
the conga[90] and rumba, while Haitians and the rest of the French West 
Indies have brought kompa and zouk to Miami from their homelands instantly 
popularizing them in American culture. Dominicans brought bachata, and 
merengue, while Colombians brought vallenato and cumbia, and Brazilians 
brought samba. West Indians and Caribbean people have brought, reggae, 
soca, calypso, and steel pan to the area as well.[91] In the early 1970s, 
the Miami disco sound came to life with TK Records,[92] featuring the music 
of KC and the Sunshine Band, with such hits as "Get Down Tonight", "(Shake, 
Shake, Shake) Shake Your Booty" and "That's the Way (I Like It)";[93] and 
the Latin-American disco group, Foxy (band), with their hit singles "Get 
Off" and "Hot Number".[94] Miami-area natives George McCrae[95] and Teri 
DeSario[96] were also popular music artists during the 1970s disco era. 
The Bee Gees moved to Miami in 1975 and have lived here ever since then.[97] 
Miami-influenced, Gloria Estefan and the Miami Sound Machine, hit the popular 
music scene with their Cuban-oriented sound and had hits in the 1980s with 
"Conga" and "Bad Boys".[98] Miami is also considered a "hot spot" for dance 
music,[99][100] Freestyle, a style of dance music popular in the 1980s 
and 90s was heavily influenced by Electro, hip-hop, and disco.[101] Many 
popular Freestyle acts such as Pretty Tony, Debbie Deb,[102] Stevie B,[103] 
and Exposé,[104] originated in Miami. Indie/folk acts Cat Power and Iron 
& Wine are based in the city,[105] while alternative hip hop artist Sage 
Francis, electro artist Uffie, and the electroclash duo Avenue D were born 
in Miami, but musically based elsewhere. Also, ska punk band Against All 
Authority is from Miami, and rock/metal bands Nonpoint and Marilyn Manson 
each formed in neighboring Fort Lauderdale.[106][107] Cuban American female 
recording artist, Ana Cristina, was born in Miami in 1985.[108] The 1980s 
and '90s also brought the genre of high energy Miami Bass to dance floors 
and car subwoofers throughout the country.[109] Miami Bass spawned artists 
like 2 Live Crew (featuring Uncle Luke),[109] 95 South,[110] Tag Team,[111] 
69 Boyz,[112] Quad City DJ's, and Freak Nasty. Examples of these songs 
are "Whoomp! (There It Is)" by Tag Team in 1993, "Tootsee Roll" by 69 Boyz 
in 1994, and "C'mon N' Ride It (The Train)" by the Quad City DJ's in 1996.[113] 
This was also a period of alternatives to nightclubs, the warehouse party, 
acid house, rave and outdoor festival scenes of the late 1980s and early 
1990s were havens for the latest trends in electronic dance music,[114] 
especially house and its ever-more hypnotic, synthetic offspring techno 
and trance, in clubs like the infamous Warsaw Ballroom better known as 
Warsaw and The Mix where DJs like David Padilla (who was the resident DJ 
for both) and radio. The new sound fed back into mainstream clubs across 
the country. The scene in SoBe, along with a bustling secondhand market 
for electronic instruments and turntables, had a strong democratizing effect, 
offering amateur, "bedroom" DJs the opportunity to become proficient and 
popular as both music players and producers, regardless of the whims of 
the professional music and club industries. Some of these notable DJs are 
John Benetiz (better known as JellyBean Benetiz), Danny Tenaglia, and David 
Padilla.[115] Miami is also home to a vibrant techno and dance scene and 
hosts the Winter Music Conference, the largest dance event in the world, 
Ultra Music Festival and many electronica music-themed celebrations and 
festivals. There are also several rap and hip hop artists out of Miami. 
They include Trick Daddy, Trina, Pitbull, Pretty Ricky, and the Miami Bass 
group 2 Live Crew. The cuisine of Miami is a reflection of its diverse 
population, with a heavy influence especially from Caribbean cuisine and 
from Latin American cuisine. By combining the two with American cuisine, 
it has spawned a unique South Florida style of cooking known as Floribbean 
cuisine. Floribbean cuisine is widely available throughout Miami and South 
Florida, and can be found in restaurant chains such as Pollo Tropical. 
Cuban immigrants in the 1960s brought the Cuban sandwich, medianoche, Cuban 
espresso, and croquetas, all of which have grown in popularity to all Miamians, 
and have become symbols of the city's varied cuisine. Today, these are 
part of the local culture, and can be found throughout the city in window 
cafés, particularly outside of supermarkets and restaurants.[116][117] 
Restaurants such as Versailles restaurant in Little Havana are landmark 
eateries of Miami. Located on the Atlantic Ocean, and with a long history 
as a seaport, Miami is also known for its seafood, with many seafood restaurants 
located along the Miami River, and in and around Biscayne Bay.[118] Miami 
is also the home of restaurant chains such as Burger King, Tony Roma's 
and Benihana. The Miami area has a unique dialect, (commonly called the 
"Miami accent") which is widely spoken. The dialect developed among second- 
or third-generation Hispanics, including Cuban-Americans, whose first language 
was English (though some non-Hispanic white, black, and other races who 
were born and raised the Miami area tend to adopt it as well.)[119] It 
is based on a fairly standard American accent but with some changes very 
similar to dialects in the Mid-Atlantic (especially the New York area dialect, 
Northern New Jersey English, and New York Latino English.) Unlike Virginia 
Piedmont, Coastal Southern American, and Northeast American dialects and 
Florida Cracker dialect (see section below), "Miami accent" is rhotic; 
it also incorporates a rhythm and pronunciation heavily influenced by Spanish 
(wherein rhythm is syllable-timed).[120] However, this is a native dialect 
of English, not learner English or interlanguage; it is possible to differentiate 
this variety from an interlanguage spoken by second-language speakers in 
that "Miami accent" does not generally display the following features: 
there is no addition of /ɛ/ before initial consonant clusters with /s/, 
speakers do not confuse of /dʒ/ with /j/, (e.g., Yale with jail), and /r/ 
and /rr/ are pronounced as alveolar approximant [ɹ] instead of alveolar 
tap [ɾ] or alveolar trill [r] in Spanish.[121][122][123][124] The video 
game Scarface: The World Is Yours takes place in Miami. The game is based 
on and is a quasi-sequel to the 1983 motion picture Scarface starring Al 
Pacino reprising his role as Tony Montana, with André Sogliuzzo providing 
Montana's voice. The game begins in the film's final scene, with Tony Montana's 
mansion being raided by Alejandro Sosa's (Robert Davi) assassins.[125] 
Miami's main four sports teams are the Miami Dolphins of the National Football 
League, the Miami Heat of the National Basketball Association, the Miami 
Marlins of Major League Baseball, and the Florida Panthers of the National 
Hockey League. As well as having all four major professional teams, Miami 
is also home to the Major League Soccer expansion team led by David Beckham, 
Sony Ericsson Open for professional tennis, numerous greyhound racing tracks, 
marinas, jai alai venues, and golf courses. The city streets has hosted 
professional auto races, the Miami Indy Challenge and later the Grand Prix 
Americas. The Homestead-Miami Speedway oval hosts NASCAR national races. 
The Heat and the Marlins play within Miami's city limits. The Heat play 
at the American Airlines Arena in Downtown Miami. The Miami Marlins home 
ballpark is Marlins Park, located in Little Havana on the site of the old 
Orange Bowl stadium. The Miami Dolphins play at Hard Rock Stadium in suburban 
Miami Gardens. The Florida Panthers play in nearby Sunrise at the BB&T 
Center. Miami FC of the North American Soccer League, the second tier of 
the American soccer pyramid, play at FIU Stadium, and the Fort Lauderdale 
Strikers play at Lockhart Stadium in nearby Fort Lauderdale, also in the 
North American Soccer League. Miami is also home to Paso Fino horses, where 
competitions are held at Tropical Park Equestrian Center. The Orange Bowl, 
a member of the Bowl Championship Series, hosts their college football 
championship games at Hard Rock Stadium. The stadium has also hosted the 
Super Bowl; the Miami metro area has hosted the game a total of ten times 
(five Super Bowls at the current Hard Rock Stadium, including Super Bowl 
XLI and five at the Miami Orange Bowl), tying New Orleans for the most 
games.[citation needed] Miami is also the home of many college sports teams. 
The two largest are the University of Miami Hurricanes, whose football 
team plays at Hard Rock Stadium, and Florida International University Panthers 
whose football team plays at FIU Stadium. The following table shows the 
Miami area major professional teams and Division I teams with an average 
attendance of more than 10,000: Miami's tropical weather allows for year-round 
outdoors activities. The city has numerous marinas, rivers, bays, canals, 
and the Atlantic Ocean, which make boating, sailing, and fishing popular 
outdoors activities. Biscayne Bay has numerous coral reefs which make snorkeling 
and scuba diving popular. There are over 80 parks and gardens in the city.[126] 
The largest and most popular parks are Bayfront Park and Bicentennial Park 
(located in the heart of Downtown and the location of the American Airlines 
Arena and Bayside Marketplace), Tropical Park, Peacock Park, Morningside 
Park, Virginia Key, and Watson Island. Other popular cultural destinations 
in or near Miami include Zoo Miami, Jungle Island, Miami Seaquarium, Monkey 
Jungle, Coral Castle, St. Bernard de Clairvaux Church, Charles Deering 
Estate, Fairchild Botanical Gardens, and Key Biscayne. The government of 
the City of Miami (proper) uses the mayor-commissioner type of system. 
The city commission consists of five commissioners which are elected from 
single member districts. The city commission constitutes the governing 
body with powers to pass ordinances, adopt regulations, and exercise all 
powers conferred upon the city in the city charter. The mayor is elected 
at large and appoints a city manager. The City of Miami is governed by 
Mayor Tomás Regalado and 5 City commissioners which oversee the five districts 
in the city. The commission's regular meetings are held at Miami City Hall, 
which is located at 3500 Pan American Drive on Dinner Key in the neighborhood 
of Coconut Grove . Public schools in Miami are governed by Miami-Dade County 
Public Schools, which is the largest school district in Florida and the 
fourth-largest in the United States. As of September 2008 it has a student 
enrollment of 385,655 and over 392 schools and centers. The district is 
also the largest minority public school system in the country, with 60% 
of its students being of Hispanic origin, 28% Black or West Indian American, 
10% White (non-Hispanic) and 2% non-white of other minorities.[127] Miami 
is home to some of the nation's best high schools, such as Design and Architecture 
High School, ranked the nation's best magnet school, MAST Academy, Coral 
Reef High School, ranked 20th-best public high school in the U.S., Miami 
Palmetto High School, and the New World School of the Arts.[128] M-DCPS 
is also one of a few public school districts in the United States to offer 
optional bilingual education in Spanish, French, German, Haitian Creole, 
and Mandarin Chinese. Miami is home to several well-known Roman Catholic, 
Jewish and non-denominational private schools. The Archdiocese of Miami 
operates the city's Catholic private schools, which include: St. Hugh Catholic 
School, St. Agatha Catholic School, St. Theresa School, Immaculata-Lasalle 
High School, Monsignor Edward Pace High School, Archbishop Curley-Notre 
Dame High School, St. Brendan High School, amongst numerous other Catholic 
elementary and high schools. Catholic preparatory schools operated by religious 
orders are Christopher Columbus High School and Belen Jesuit Preparatory 
School for boys and Carrollton School of the Sacred Heart and Our Lady 
of Lourdes Academy for girls. Non-denominational private schools in Miami 
are Ransom Everglades, Gulliver Preparatory School, and Miami Country Day 
School. Other schools in the area include Samuel Scheck Hillel Community 
Day School, Dade Christian School, Palmer Trinity School, and Westminster 
Christian School. Miami has over 200,000 students enrolled in local colleges 
and universities, placing it seventh in the nation in per capita university 
enrollment. In 2010, the city's four largest colleges and universities 
(MDC, FIU, UM, and Barry) graduated 28,000 students.[129] Colleges and 
universities in and around Miami: Overall, amongst Miamians 25 years and 
older, 67% had a high school diploma, and 22% had a bachelor's degree or 
higher.[130] In 2011, Miami was ranked as the sixth-most-read city in the 
U.S. with high book sales.[131] Miami is also home to both for-profit and 
nonprofit organizations that offer a range of professional training and 
other, related educational programs. Per Scholas, for example is a nonprofit 
organization that offers free professional certification training directed 
towards successfully passing CompTIA A+ and Network+ certification exams 
as a route to securing jobs and building careers.[132][133][134] Miami 
has one of the largest television markets in the nation and the second 
largest in the state of Florida.[135] Miami has several major newspapers, 
the main and largest newspaper being The Miami Herald. El Nuevo Herald 
is the major and largest Spanish-language newspaper. The Miami Herald and 
El Nuevo Herald are Miami's and South Florida's main, major and largest 
newspapers. The papers left their longtime home in downtown Miami in 2013. 
The newspapers are now headquartered at the former home of U.S. Southern 
Command in Doral.[136] Other major newspapers include Miami Today, headquartered 
in Brickell, Miami New Times, headquartered in Midtown, Miami Sun Post, 
South Florida Business Journal, Miami Times, and Biscayne Boulevard Times. 
An additional Spanish-language newspapers, Diario Las Americas also serve 
Miami. The Miami Herald is Miami's primary newspaper with over a million 
readers and is headquartered in Downtown in Herald Plaza. Several other 
student newspapers from the local universities, such as the oldest, the 
University of Miami's The Miami Hurricane, Florida International University's 
The Beacon, Miami-Dade College's The Metropolis, Barry University's The 
Buccaneer, amongst others. Many neighborhoods and neighboring areas also 
have their own local newspapers such as the Aventura News, Coral Gables 
Tribune, Biscayne Bay Tribune, and the Palmetto Bay News. A number of magazines 
circulate throughout the greater Miami area, including Miami Monthly, Southeast 
Florida's only city/regional; Ocean Drive, a hot-spot social scene glossy, 
and South Florida Business Leader. Miami is also the headquarters and main 
production city of many of the world's largest television networks, record 
label companies, broadcasting companies and production facilities, such 
as Telemundo, TeleFutura, Galavisión, Mega TV, Univisión, Univision Communications, 
Inc., Universal Music Latin Entertainment, RCTV International and Sunbeam 
Television. In 2009, Univisión announced plans to build a new production 
studio in Miami, dubbed 'Univisión Studios'. Univisión Studios is currently 
headquartered in Miami, and will produce programming for all of Univisión 
Communications' television networks.[137] Miami is the twelfth largest 
radio market[138] and the seventeenth largest television market[139] in 
the United States. Television stations serving the Miami area include: 
WAMI (Telefutura), WBFS (My Network TV), WSFL (The CW), WFOR (CBS), WHFT 
(TBN), WLTV (Univision), WPLG (ABC), WPXM (Ion), WSCV (Telemundo), WSVN 
(Fox), WTVJ (NBC), WPBT (PBS), and WLRN (also PBS). Miami International 
Airport serves as the primary international airport of the Greater Miami 
Area. One of the busiest international airports in the world, Miami International 
Airport caters to over 35 million passengers a year. The airport is a major 
hub and the single largest international gateway for American Airlines. 
Miami International is the busiest airport in Florida, and is the United 
States' second-largest international port of entry for foreign air passengers 
behind New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport, and is the seventh-largest 
such gateway in the world. The airport's extensive international route 
network includes non-stop flights to over seventy international cities 
in North and South America, Europe, Asia, and the Middle East. Alternatively, 
nearby Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport also serves commercial 
traffic in the Miami area.[140] Opa-locka Airport in Opa-locka and Kendall-Tamiami 
Airport in an unincorporated area serve general aviation traffic in the 
Miami area. Miami is home to one of the largest ports in the United States, 
the PortMiami. It is the largest cruise ship port in the world. The port 
is often called the "Cruise Capital of the World" and the "Cargo Gateway 
of the Americas".[141] It has retained its status as the number one cruise/passenger 
port in the world for well over a decade accommodating the largest cruise 
ships and the major cruise lines. In 2007, the port served 3,787,410 passengers.[142] 
Additionally, the port is one of the nation's busiest cargo ports, importing 
7.8 million tons of cargo in 2007.[142] Among North American ports, it 
ranks second only to the Port of South Louisiana in New Orleans in terms 
of cargo tonnage imported/exported from Latin America. The port is on 518 
acres (2 km2) and has 7 passenger terminals. China is the port's number 
one import country, and Honduras is the number one export country. Miami 
has the world's largest amount of cruise line headquarters, home to: Carnival 
Cruise Lines, Celebrity Cruises, Norwegian Cruise Line, Oceania Cruises, 
and Royal Caribbean International. In 2014, the Port of Miami Tunnel was 
completed and will serve the PortMiami.[143] Public transportation in Miami 
is operated by Miami-Dade Transit and SFRTA, and includes commuter rail 
(Tri-Rail), heavy-rail rapid transit (Metrorail), an elevated people mover 
(Metromover), and buses (Metrobus). Miami has Florida's highest transit 
ridership as about 17% of Miamians use transit on a daily basis.[144] Miami's 
heavy-rail rapid transit system, Metrorail, is an elevated system comprising 
two lines and 23 stations on a 24.4-mile (39.3 km)-long line. Metrorail 
connects the urban western suburbs of Hialeah, Medley, and inner-city Miami 
with suburban The Roads, Coconut Grove, Coral Gables, South Miami and urban 
Kendall via the central business districts of Miami International Airport, 
the Civic Center, and Downtown. A free, elevated people mover, Metromover, 
operates 21 stations on three different lines in greater Downtown Miami, 
with a station at roughly every two blocks of Downtown and Brickell. Several 
expansion projects are being funded by a transit development sales tax 
surcharge throughout Miami-Dade County. Tri-Rail, a commuter rail system 
operated by the South Florida Regional Transportation Authority (SFRTA), 
runs from Miami International Airport northward to West Palm Beach, making 
eighteen stops throughout Miami-Dade, Broward, and Palm Beach counties. 
Construction is currently underway on the Miami Intermodal Center and Miami 
Central Station, a massive transportation hub servicing Metrorail, Amtrak, 
Tri-Rail, Metrobus, Greyhound Lines, taxis, rental cars, MIA Mover, private 
automobiles, bicycles and pedestrians adjacent to Miami International Airport. 
Completion of the Miami Intermodal Center is expected to be completed by 
winter 2011, and will serve over 150,000 commuters and travelers in the 
Miami area. Phase I of Miami Central Station is scheduled to begin service 
in the spring of 2012, and Phase II in 2013. Two new light rail systems, 
Baylink and the Miami Streetcar, have been proposed and are currently in 
the planning stage. BayLink would connect Downtown with South Beach, and 
the Miami Streetcar would connect Downtown with Midtown. Miami is the southern 
terminus of Amtrak's Atlantic Coast services, running two lines, the Silver 
Meteor and the Silver Star, both terminating in New York City. The Miami 
Amtrak Station is located in the suburb of Hialeah near the Tri-Rail/Metrorail 
Station on NW 79 St and NW 38 Ave. Current construction of the Miami Central 
Station will move all Amtrak operations from its current out-of-the-way 
location to a centralized location with Metrorail, MIA Mover, Tri-Rail, 
Miami International Airport, and the Miami Intermodal Center all within 
the same station closer to Downtown. The station was expected to be completed 
by 2012,[145] but experienced several delays and was later expected to 
be completed in late 2014,[146] again pushed back to early 2015.[147] Florida 
High Speed Rail was a proposed government backed high-speed rail system 
that would have connected Miami, Orlando, and Tampa. The first phase was 
planned to connect Orlando and Tampa and was offered federal funding, but 
it was turned down by Governor Rick Scott in 2011. The second phase of 
the line was envisioned to connect Miami. By 2014, a private project known 
as All Aboard Florida by a company of the historic Florida East Coast Railway 
began construction of a higher-speed rail line in South Florida that is 
planned to eventually terminate at Orlando International Airport.[148] 
Miami's road system is based along the numerical "Miami Grid" where Flagler 
Street forms the east-west baseline and Miami Avenue forms the north-south 
meridian. The corner of Flagler Street and Miami Avenue is in the middle 
of Downtown in front of the Downtown Macy's (formerly the Burdine's headquarters). 
The Miami grid is primarily numerical so that, for example, all street 
addresses north of Flagler Street and west of Miami Avenue have "NW" in 
their address. Because its point of origin is in Downtown, which is close 
to the coast, therefore, the "NW" and "SW" quadrants are much larger than 
the "SE" and "NE" quadrants. Many roads, especially major ones, are also 
named (e.g., Tamiami Trail/SW 8th St), although, with exceptions, the number 
is in more common usage among locals. With few exceptions, within this 
grid north/south roads are designated as Courts, Roads, Avenues or Places 
(often remembered by their acronym), while east/west roads are Streets, 
Terraces, Drives or occasionally Ways. Major roads in each direction are 
located at one mile intervals. There are 16 blocks to each mile on north/south 
avenues, and 10 blocks to each mile on east/west streets. Major north/south 
avenues generally end in "7" - e.g., 17th, 27th, 37th/Douglas Aves., 57th/Red 
Rd., 67th/Ludlam, 87th/Galloway, etc., all the way west beyond 177th/Krome 
Avenue. (One prominent exception is 42nd Avenue, LeJeune Road, located 
at the half-mile point instead.) Major east/west streets to the south of 
downtown are multiples of 16, though the beginning point of this system 
is at SW 8th St, one half mile south of Flagler ("zeroth") Street. Thus, 
major streets are at 8th St. + 16 = 24th St./Coral Way, + 16 = 40th St./Bird, 
+16 = 56th/Miller, + 16 = 72nd/ Sunset, + 16 = 88th/N. Kendall, + 16 = 
104th (originally S. Kendall), + 16 = 120th/Montgomery, + 16 = 136th/Howard, 
+ 16 = 152nd/Coral Reef, + 16 = 168th/Richmond, + 16 = 184th/Eureka, + 
16 = 200th/Quail Roost, + 16 = 216th/Hainlin Mill, + 16 = 232nd/Silver 
Palm, + 16 = 248th/Coconut Palm, etc., well into the 300's. Within the 
Grid, odd-numbered addresses are generally on the north or east side, and 
even-numbered addresses are on the south or west side. This makes even 
unfamiliar addresses and distances easy - If one must travel from, say 
1709 SW 8th St. to 24832 SW 157th Avenue, one knows it will be 140 blocks 
(157-17) / 20 miles to the west and 240 blocks (248-8) / 15 miles to the 
south, and that the destination will be on the south side of 248th St. 
Remarkably, even Miami natives are often unaware of this pattern. All streets 
and avenues in Miami-Dade County follow the Miami Grid, with a few exceptions, 
most notably Coral Gables, Hialeah, Coconut Grove and Miami Beach. One 
neighborhood, The Roads, is thusly named because its streets run off the 
Miami Grid at a 45-degree angle, and therefore are all named roads. Miami-Dade 
County is served by four Interstate Highways (I-75, I-95, I-195, I-395) 
and several U.S. Highways including U.S. Route 1, U.S. Route 27, U.S. Route 
41, and U.S. Route 441. Some of the major Florida State Roads (and their 
common names) serving Miami are: Miami has six major causeways that span 
over Biscayne Bay connecting the western mainland, with the eastern barrier 
islands along the Atlantic Ocean. The Rickenbacker Causeway is the southernmost 
causeway and connects Brickell to Virginia Key and Key Biscayne. The Venetian 
Causeway and MacArthur Causeway connect Downtown with South Beach. The 
Julia Tuttle Causeway connects Midtown and Miami Beach. The 79th Street 
Causeway connects the Upper East Side with North Beach. The northernmost 
causeway, the Broad Causeway, is the smallest of Miami's six causeways, 
and connects North Miami with Bal Harbour. In 2007, Miami was identified 
as having the rudest drivers in the United States, the second year in a 
row to have been cited, in a poll commissioned by automobile club AutoVantage.[149] 
Miami is also consistently ranked as one of the most dangerous cities in 
the United States for pedestrians.[150] In recent years the city government, 
under Mayor Manny Diaz, has taken an ambitious stance in support of bicycling 
in Miami for both recreation and commuting. Every month, the city hosts 
"Bike Miami", where major streets in Downtown and Brickell are closed to 
automobiles, but left open for pedestrians and bicyclists. The event began 
in November 2008, and has doubled in popularity from 1,500 participants 
to about 3,000 in the October 2009 Bike Miami. This is the longest-running 
such event in the US. In October 2009, the city also approved an extensive 
20-year plan for bike routes and paths around the city. The city has begun 
construction of bike routes as of late 2009, and ordinances requiring bike 
parking in all future construction in the city became mandatory as of October 
2009.[151] In 2010, Miami was ranked as the 44th-most bike-friendly city 
in the US according to Bicycling Magazine.[152] A 2011 study by Walk Score 
ranked Miami the eighth-most walkable of the fifty largest cities in the 
United States,[153] but a 2013 survey by Travel + Leisure ranked Miami 
