As player As coach Michihiro Ogasawara (小笠原 道大, born October 25, 1973 in 
Mihama-ku, Chiba, Chiba Prefecture, Japan) was a Japanese professional 
baseball player. He is currently the second team coach for Chunichi Dragons 
in Japan's Central League. He had an illustrious career spanning 18 years 
with the Hokkaido Nippon-Ham Fighters, Yomiuri Giants, and the Chunichi 
Dragons where he won two Japan Series, two MVP awards in both the Pacific 
and Central leagues; only one of two people to do so and the first to do 
it in consecutive seasons. He was an NPB All-Star 11 times. He was also 
a part of the 2006 and 2009 World Baseball Classic winning Japan sides. 
Ogasawara started playing baseball at age 7 playing in the Chiba West Little 
League. From 1989 he studied at Gyosei International High School in Kisarazu, 
Chiba Prefecture. When he started at the team he was regarded as a complete 
no-name and his then coach mentioned that "we were asked to go after a 
junior middle schooler from the Chiba West Little League and we got the 
player that no one spoke of, Ogasawara."[1] [2]Up until that point he had 
been tried at a variety of fielding positions including shortstop, third 
base and outfield but during high school was converted to be a second baseman 
and the following year served as a catcher (however Ogasawara admits that 
catcher was his least favourite position[1]) In his junior year, alongside 
fellow future pro Tetsuya Kitagawa he finished runner-up in the Chiba prefectural 
tournament. Although now widely regarded for his power and hitting prowess, 
Ogaswara failed to register a single home run in the tournament. [3] Following 
graduation from high school, Ogasawara was employed with NTT East. He was 
judged at the time to, even in the worst case, still be of use as a bullpen 
catcher. [1] He would start life with the team as a catcher and later form 
a battery with future Hokkaido Nippon Ham Fighters team-mate, Naoyuki Tateishi. 
In 1996, he took part in the 67th Intercity Baseball Tournament, playing 
alongside Nobuhiko Matsunaka with Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Kazusa 
Magic to reach the best 8.[3] In 1996, Ogasawara was the third draft pick 
selected by the Fighters in the 1996 Nippon Professional Baseball Draft[4] 
where he made the declaration that he would become a "player that can contest 
for batting titles."[5] Ogasawara was one of the most consistent hitters 
in Japanese baseball. He won two consecutive batting titles from 2002–2003, 
and led the league in home runs and RBIs in 2006 to win the Pacific League 
MVP award. He led the league in hits from 2000–2001, and has won 6 Japanese 
Golden Glove awards at first base and third base. He participated in the 
2004 Summer Olympics held in Athens, Greece, winning a bronze medal. He 
also played for the Japanese national team in the 2006 World Baseball Classic, 
where he hit a home run off Esteban Loaiza at Angel Stadium of Anaheim. 
In 2006, he helped the Hokkaido Nippon-Ham Fighters win their first Pacific 
League pennant since 1981, sweeping the Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks in the playoffs 
to reach the Japanese championship series against the Chunichi Dragons. 
The Fighters beat the Dragons in 5 games to win the Japanese championship 
series. He became a free agent in 2006, and signed a four-year contract 
with the Yomiuri Giants during the off-season. Following 6 successful years 
with the Giants, Ogasawara would move to the Chunichi Dragons in 2013 and 
retired with the team at the conclusion of the 2015 season. Following retirement, 
Ogasawara was instated as the head coach of the Chunichi Dragons' minor 
league team, playing in the Western League.[6] Following the dismissal 
of first team manager, Motonobu Tanishige on the 8th of August, 2016 Ogasawara 
was mentioned as the main candidate to replace the outgoing manager at 
the season's end.[7][8] He was however unsuccessful in attaining the manager 
position as senior figures at the Dragons decided to appoint a more experienced 
