Michael John Douglas (born September 5, 1951),[1] known professionally 
as Michael Keaton, is an American actor, producer, and director. Keaton 
first rose to fame for his comedic film roles in Night Shift (1982), Mr. 
Mom (1983), Johnny Dangerously (1984) and Beetlejuice (1988), and he earned 
further acclaim for his dramatic portrayal of the title character in Tim 
Burton's Batman (1989) and Batman Returns (1992). Since then, he has appeared 
in a variety of films ranging from dramas and romantic comedies to thriller 
and action films; such as Clean and Sober (1988), The Dream Team (1989), 
Pacific Heights (1990), Much Ado About Nothing (1993), My Life (1993), 
The Paper (1994), Multiplicity (1996), Jackie Brown (1997), The Other Guys 
(2010), Need for Speed (2014), RoboCop (2014), Birdman (2014) and Spotlight 
(2015), and he has also provided voices for characters in animated films 
such as Cars (2006), Toy Story 3 (2010) and Minions (2015). Keaton's critically 
praised lead performance in Birdman (2014) earned him a Golden Globe Award 
for Best Actor in a Musical or Comedy, the Critics' Choice Award for Best 
Actor and Best Actor in a Comedy, and nominations for the Screen Actors 
Guild Award, British Academy Film Award, and Academy Award for Best Actor. 
He previously received a Golden Globe Award nomination for his performance 
in Live from Baghdad (2002) and a Screen Actors Guild Award nomination 
for The Company (2007). Keaton was awarded a Career Achievement Award from 
both the Hollywood Film Festival and Zurich Film Festivals.[citation needed] 
On January 18, 2016, he was named Officer of Order of Arts and Letters 
in France.[2] He is also a visiting scholar at Carnegie Mellon University.[3] 
Keaton, the youngest of seven children, was born in Coraopolis, Pennsylvania 
near Pittsburgh. His father, George A. Douglas, worked as a civil engineer 
and surveyor, and his mother, Leona Elizabeth (née Loftus), a homemaker, 
came from McKees Rocks.[1][4] Keaton was raised in a Roman Catholic family. 
His mother was of Irish descent, and his father was of English, Scottish, 
Scots-Irish, and German ancestry.[5][6] He attended Montour High School 
in Pennsylvania. Keaton studied speech for two years at Kent State before 
dropping out and moving to Pittsburgh. Keaton first appeared on TV in Pittsburgh 
public television programs, including Where the Heart Is and Mister Rogers' 
Neighborhood (1975), as one of the "Flying Zookeeni Brothers."[7] He also 
served as a full-time production assistant on the show.[8] In 2004, following 
Fred Rogers' death, Keaton hosted a PBS memorial tribute program, Fred 
Rogers: America's Favorite Neighbor. Keaton also worked as an actor in 
Pittsburgh theatre; he played the role of Rick in the Pittsburgh premiere 
of David Rabe's Sticks and Bones with the Pittsburgh Poor Players.[9] Keaton 
left Pittsburgh and moved to Los Angeles to begin auditioning for various 
TV parts. He popped up in various popular TV shows including Maude and 
The Mary Tyler Moore Hour. He decided to use a stage name to satisfy SAG 
rules, as there were already an actor (Michael Douglas) and daytime host 
(Mike Douglas) with the same or similar names. The claim that Keaton selected 
his new surname due to an attraction to actress Diane Keaton is incorrect.[10] 
He chose Keaton because of an affinity for the physical comedy of Buster 
Keaton. Keaton's film debut came in a small non-speaking role in Joan Rivers 
film Rabbit Test.[11] His next break was working alongside James Belushi 
in the short-lived comedy series Working Stiffs, which showcased his comedic 
talent and led to a co-starring role in the comedy Night Shift directed 
by Ron Howard. His role as the fast-talking schemer Bill "Blaze" Blazejowski 
earned Keaton some critical acclaim, and he scored leads in the subsequent 
comedy hits Mr. Mom, Johnny Dangerously and Gung Ho. He played the title 
character in Tim Burton's 1988 horror-comedy Beetlejuice, earned Keaton 
widespread acclaim and boosted him to movieland's A list. He originally 
turned down the role, then reconsidered like most of the cast. He now considers 
Beetlejuice his favorite of his own films.[citation needed] That same year, 
he also gave an acclaimed dramatic performance as a drug-addicted businessman 
in Clean and Sober.[citation needed] Keaton's career was given another 
major boost when he was again cast by Tim Burton, this time as the title 
comic book superhero of 1989's Batman.[12][13] Warner Bros. received thousands 
of letters of complaint by fans who believed Keaton was the wrong choice 
to portray Batman.[14] However, Keaton's performance in the role ultimately 
earned widespread acclaim from both critics and audiences,[15] and Batman 
became one of the most successful films of that year.[16] According to 
Les Daniels's reference book Batman: The Complete History, Keaton wasn't 
surprised when he was first considered as Batman as he initially believed 
the film would be similar to the 1960s television series starring Adam 
West. It was only after he was introduced to Frank Miller's comic book 
miniseries, The Dark Knight Returns, that Keaton really understood the 
dark and brooding side of Batman that he portrayed to much fan approval.[17] 
Keaton later reprised the role for the sequel Batman Returns (1992), which 
was another critically acclaimed success.[18] He was initially set to reprise 
the role again for a third Batman film, even going as far as to show up 
for costume fitting. However, when Burton was dropped as director of the 
film, Keaton left the franchise as well. He was reportedly dissatisfied 
with the screenplay approved by the new director, Joel Schumacher. According 
to the A&E Biography episode on Keaton, after he had refused the first 
time (after meetings with Schumacher), Warner Bros. offered him $15 million, 
but Keaton steadfastly refused and was replaced by Val Kilmer in Batman 
Forever (1995).[19] Keaton remained active during the 1990s, appearing 
in a wide range of films, including Pacific Heights, One Good Cop, My Life 
and the star-studded Shakespearean story Much Ado About Nothing. He starred 
in The Paper and Multiplicity, and twice in the same role, that of Elmore 
Leonard character Agent Ray Nicolette, in the films Jackie Brown and Out 
of Sight. He made the family holiday movie Jack Frost and the thriller 
Desperate Measures. Keaton starred as a political candidate's speechwriter 
in 1994's Speechless.[citation needed] In the early 2000s, Keaton appeared 
in several films with mixed success, including Live From Baghdad (for which 
he was nominated for a Golden Globe award), First Daughter, White Noise 
and Herbie: Fully Loaded. While he continued to receive good notices from 
the critics (particularly for Jackie Brown), he was not able to re-approach 
the box-office success of Batman until the release of Disney/Pixar's Cars 
(2006), in which he voiced Chick Hicks. On New Year's Day of 2004, he hosted 
the PBS TV special Mr. Rogers: America's Favorite Neighbor. It was released 
by Triumph Marketing LLC on DVD September 28, 2004. In 2006, he starred 
in Game 6, about the 1986 World Series bid by the Boston Red Sox. He had 
a cameo in the Tenacious D short film Time Fixers, an iTunes exclusive. 
The 9-minute film was released to coincide with Tenacious D in The Pick 
of Destiny.[citation needed] Keaton reportedly was cast as Jack Shephard 
in the series Lost, with the understanding that the role of Jack would 
be a brief one. Once the role was retooled to be a long-running series 
regular, Keaton withdrew. The part was then given to actor Matthew Fox. 
The show ran for six seasons, with the Shephard role continuing throughout.[20][21] 
Keaton starred in the 2007 TV miniseries The Company, set during the Cold 
War, in which he portrayed the real-life CIA counterintelligence chief 
James Jesus Angleton. The role garnered Keaton a 2008 SAG nomination for 
Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Television Movie or Miniseries. 
The Company.[citation needed] Keaton provided the voice of Ken in Toy Story 
3 (2010). The film received overwhelmingly positive acclaim and grossed 
over $1 billion worldwide, making it one of the most financially successful 
films ever.[22] He announced in June 2010 his interest in returning for 
a Beetlejuice sequel.[23] He played Captain Gene Mauch in the comedy The 
Other Guys. Keaton starred alongside Zach Galifianakis, Edward Norton, 
Emma Stone, and Naomi Watts in Birdman (2014), playing Riggan Thomson, 
a screen actor, famous for playing the iconic titular superhero, who puts 
on a Broadway play based on a Raymond Carver short story, to regain his 
former glory.[24] He won the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor in a Musical 
or Comedy for his portrayal of Thomson and received an Academy Award nomination 
for Best Actor.[citation needed] In 2015, Keaton appeared as Walter V. 
Robinson in the film Spotlight. In February 2015, Keaton was cast as Ray 
Kroc in the biopic The Founder.[citation needed] In 2016, Keaton entered 
negotiations to appear as a villain in Spider-Man: Homecoming, which will 
be released in 2017.[25] Producer Kevin Feige confirmed that November that 
Keaton would be playing the supervillain the Vulture.[26] On July 28, 2016, 
Keaton received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, located at 6931 Hollywood 
Boulevard.[27][28] Keaton was married to the late actress Caroline McWilliams 
from 1982 to 1990. They have one son, Sean Maxwell Douglas. He also had 
a relationship with actress Courteney Cox from 1989 to 1995. Keaton, a 
long-time Pittsburgh resident, is an avid Pittsburgh Pirates fan and negotiated 
a break in his Batman movie contract in case the Pirates made the playoffs 
that year (they did not). He also wrote an ESPN blog on the Pirates during 
the final months of their 2013 season, in which the Pirates made the playoffs 
for the first time since 1992. He is often seen at Pittsburgh Penguins 
games and is an avid Pittsburgh Steelers fan.[29] In the 1980s, Keaton 
bought a ranch near Big Timber, Montana, where he spends much of his time.[30] 
An avid fisherman, he is often seen on the saltwater fishing series Buccaneers 
& Bones on Outdoor Channel, along with Lefty Kreh, Tom Brokaw, Zach Gilford, 
Thomas McGuane and Yvon Chouinard.[31] Keaton is a Democrat. He endorsed 
President Barack Obama for re-election in 2012[32] and Senator Bernie Sanders 
