Michael H. Sexton (1862–1937) was an American baseball executive, whose 
most significant role was as president of the National Association of Professional 
Baseball Leagues from 1910 through 1932.[1] Born in Rock Island, Illinois, 
Sexton served as police chief in his hometown from 1893 to 1895. Sexton 
later became a partner in the Rock Island Steam Laundry and Towel Supply 
Company located downtown, where he was known affectionately as "Mr. Baseball" 
for his passion for the sport and his efforts to establish organized local 
baseball clubs.[2] At the Winter Meetings in 1909, Sexton was chosen to 
replace Patrick T. Powers as president of the NAPBL, a position Sexton 
held for 24 years, while collaborating to establish the system during his 
lengthy term.[3] Previously, Sexton served as president of the Three-I 
League from 1901 to 1904, and returned in 1909. Sexton also was the president 
of the Western League from 1902 to 1904, and later became the founder of 
a restarted Mississippi Valley League in 1922, serving as its president 
from 1922 to 1924, and again in 1927.[4] Back to 1901, the recent formed 
American League signed contracts with players who were dissatisfied with 
the pay and terms of their deals with the National League. This led to 
a conflict that increased enough to concern Powers, by then president of 
the Eastern League. As a result, the National Association of Professional 
Baseball Leagues was formed on September 5, 1901, from a meeting held by 
Minor League executives at the Leland Hotel in Chicago. Powers was elected 
as the first president of the NAPBL, whose offices were established in 
Auburn, New York. Overall, fourteen leagues and 96 clubs were members during 
the first season in 1902. The purpose of the organization at the time was 
to maintain the independence of the leagues involved. Several executives 
did not sign the agreement and continued to work independently.[5] Consequently, 
Powers and his successor Sexton have been considered the fathers of Minor 
League Baseball, as they thought alike and acted alike, and were in agreement 
on the path that the NAPBL should take.[1] Powers remained as president 
of the Eastern League, which would become the International League.[5] 
But there were more conflicts ahead for Sexton to confront. The first occurred 
in 1914, when the outlaw Federal League challenged the established National 
and American Leagues by raiding their rosters and territories in an effort 
to become a third Major League circuit. As expected, the incursion took 
their toll on the top Minor Leagues, as the Federal League also raided 
top NAPBL teams. Then some radical delegates at the Winter Meetings in 
1914 tried to push the NAPBL to desert organized baseball and align with 
the Federal League. In a clever tactical move, Sexton led the group to 
take a stand, and passed a strong resolution backing the existing NAPBL 
agreements with the National and American Leagues.[1] It was a critical 
time in his presidency, and established his firm command of the organization, 
leading to an unprecedented five-year contract a year later. The Federal 
League folded in 1916, but by then there was another conflict facing Sexton 
and the organization.[1] In 1917, ballplayers along with other large segments 
of the population went marching off to the World War I. It put a tremendous 
strain on Sexton and the NAPBL, as the season of this year opened with 
21 leagues, but 10 of them were no longer active by the month of July. 
Things got worse in 1918, when just 10 leagues opened the season and the 
International League was the only one to finish. The others NAPBL members 
closed down early.[1] When peace returned after the war, many leagues began 
to re-emerge, but Sexton and the NAPBL had yet another battle to fight. 
At the Winter Meetings in 1919, members voted to abort the National Agreement 
subscribed with Major League Baseball over issues related to territorial 
rights, player limits and salary structure, among others.[1] By then, Major 
League Baseball had been governed by a three-man National Commission, consisting 
of American League President Ban Johnson, National League President John 
Heydler and Cincinnati Reds owner Garry Herrmann. In January 1920, Herrmann 
left office at the request of other club owners, leaving the Commission 
effectively deadlocked between Johnson and Heydler. A number of club owners, 
disliking one or both league presidents, preferred a single commissioner 
to rule over the game. The appointment in 1920 of Judge Kenesaw Mountain 
Landis as baseball's first commissioner has been described as the turning 
point for Major League Baseball, but it had a profound impact on the NAPBL, 
as well. By January 1921, Judge Landis had the two sides back together 
with a new National Agreement, and the NAPBL were on their way to a period 
of peace, growth and prosperity throughout the 1920s. The organization 
completed its 25th season in 1926 as a sound, stable, well-organized group 
with 28 leagues and nearly 200 clubs.[1] But the peace remained until the 
historical Wall Street Crash of 1929, because only 25 NAPBL circuits were 
able to finish the regular season that year. That number dwindled to 21 
in 1930 and 16 in 1932. From there, the administrative duties were put 
in the hands of an Executive Committee for a period of one year, with orders 
to survey conditions and report back with recommendations and specific 
requests for changes. The committee established a promotional department 
to organize new leagues and new business, including the advocacy of night 
baseball, and it created a press bureau to organize records and promote 
the game. Sexton then realized that he had served his time, and agreed 
to retire at the Winter Meetings in 1932. Sexton resigned to a position 
that he held for 24 years, the longest tenure of any Minor League president 
to this day.[3] Judge William G. Bramham was elected as his replacement.[1] 
Michael Sexton died in 1937 at his home in Rock Island, Illinois at the 
age of 73. His death was caused by a myocardial infarction while he was 
