Michael Moriarty (born April 5, 1941) is an American-Canadian stage and 
screen actor and a jazz musician. In his first acting role, on American 
television, he received an Emmy Award and Golden Globe Award, for his portrayal 
of a Nazi SS officer, in the 1978 mini-series, Holocaust and played Executive 
Assistant District Attorney Benjamin Stone for the first four seasons (1990-1994), 
on the television show, Law & Order. Moriarty is also, known for his roles 
in films such as Bang the Drum Slowly, Who'll Stop the Rain, Q: The Winged 
Serpent, The Stuff, Pale Rider, Troll, Courage Under Fire, and Shiloh. 
Moriarty, an Irish-American,[1] was born in Detroit, Michigan, the son 
of Elinor (née Paul) and George Moriarty,[2] a surgeon. His grandfather 
George Moriarty was a third baseman, umpire, and manager in the major leagues 
for nearly 40 years. Moriarty attended middle school at Cranbrook School 
in Bloomfield Hills before transferring to the University of Detroit Jesuit 
High School for high school.[3] He then matriculated at Dartmouth College 
in the class of 1963, where he was a theatre college major. After receiving 
his degree, he left for London, England, where he enrolled in the London 
Academy of Music and Dramatic Art, after receiving a Fulbright Scholarship. 
Before gaining fame in films, Moriarty worked for several years as an actor 
at the Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis.[4] In 1973, Moriarty was cast as 
the egocentric Henry Wiggen in Bang the Drum Slowly, a film about the unlikely 
friendship between two baseball teammates – the second being Robert De 
Niro, a slow-thinking catcher who becomes terminally ill. In the same year, 
Moriarty starred in a TV movie adaptation of Tennessee Williams' The Glass 
Menagerie with Katharine Hepburn. Coincidentally, the film also featured 
Sam Waterston, who later replaced Moriarty as the Executive Assistant District 
Attorney on Law & Order. Moriarty's role in The Glass Menagerie (as "Jim," 
the Gentleman Caller; Waterston played the son "Tom") won him an Emmy Award 
for Best Supporting Actor of the Year.[5] In 1974, Moriarty starred as 
rookie detective Bo Lockley in the acclaimed gritty police drama Report 
to the Commissioner. Moriarty won a Tony Award in 1974 for his performance 
in the play Find Your Way Home. His career on the screen was slow to develop, 
while his theatre career was flourishing. He starred as a German SS officer 
in the television miniseries Holocaust, which earned him another Emmy. 
Through the 1980s, Moriarty starred in such Larry Cohen movies as Q, The 
Stuff, It's Alive III: Island of the Alive, and A Return to Salem's Lot 
(much later, he appeared in Cohen's Masters of Horror episode "Pick Me 
Up"), as well as Clint Eastwood's Pale Rider and The Hanoi Hilton. In 1986, 
he starred in the fantasy science fiction movie Troll, playing the role 
of Harry Potter Sr. (unrelated to the 2001 Harry Potter series.) In 1989, 
Michael Moriarty starred in the HBO production "Tailspin – Behind the Korean 
Airliner Tragedy", which dramatized the Soviet Union's shoot-down of Korean 
Air Lines flight 007 in 1983. He portrayed U.S. Air Force Major Hank Daniels, 
who was largely ignored if not ridiculed for showing how the ill-fated 
airliner had strayed off course into airspace known by the Soviets to be 
used by U.S. Air Force electronic surveillance planes as they approached 
Soviet airspace. From 1990 to 1994, Moriarty starred as Ben Stone on Law 
& Order. He left the show in 1994, alleging that his departure was a result 
of his threatening a lawsuit against then-Attorney General Janet Reno, 
who had cited Law & Order as offensively violent. Moriarty criticized Reno's 
comment, and claimed that not only did she want to censor shows like Law 
& Order but also such fare as Murder, She Wrote. He later accused Law & 
Order executive producer Dick Wolf of not taking his concerns seriously, 
and claimed that Wolf and other network executives were "caving in" to 
Reno's "demands" on the issue of TV violence. On September 20, 1994 on 
The Howard Stern Show, he made an offer to NBC, claiming that he would 
return to his role on the show if Dick Wolf was fired. Moriarty published 
a full-page advertisement in a Hollywood trade magazine, calling upon fellow 
artists to stand up with him against attempts to censor TV show content. 
He subsequently wrote and published The Gift of Stern Angels, his account 
of this time in his life.[6] Wolf and others working on Law & Order tell 
a different story, however. On November 18, 1993, Moriarty and Wolf, along 
with other television executives, met with Reno to dissuade her from supporting 
any law that would censor the show. Wolf said that Moriarty overreacted 
to any effect the law was likely to have on the show. Law & Order producers 
claim they were forced to remove Moriarty from the series because of "erratic 
behavior", an example of which reportedly happened during the filming of 
the episode "Breeder" when, according to the episode's director, Arthur 
Forney, Moriarty was unable to deliver his lines with a straight face. 
Series and network officials deny any connection between his departure 
and Janet Reno. Wolf also denies that the show has become less violent, 
graphic or controversial since 1994.[7] Moriarty acted in The Last Detail, 
Courage Under Fire, Along Came a Spider, Shiloh, Emily of New Moon and 
James Dean, for which he won his third Emmy. In 2007 he debuted his first 
feature-length film as screenwriter and performed the role of a man who 
thinks he is Adolf Hitler in Hitler Meets Christ. In addition to his acting 
career, Moriarty is a semi-professional jazz pianist and singer, as well 
as a classical composer. He has recorded three jazz albums (though the 
first, Reaching Out, went unreleased). He has performed live regularly 
in both New York and Vancouver with a jazz trio and quintet. In a 1990 
concert review, New York Times reviewer Stephen Holden called Moriarty 
"a jazz pianist of considerable skill, an oddball singer with more than 
one vocal personality, and a writer of eccentric, jivey jazz songs."[8] 
Moriarty is politically active, describing himself as a "centrist", and 
sometimes as a "realist".[9] Moriarty announced his intention to run for 
the presidency in 2008 in an interview in the November 2005 issue of Northwest 
Jazz Profile, but he never formally declared his candidacy.[10] He later 
endorsed fellow former Law & Order actor Fred Thompson for the presidency 
during the 2008 Republican primaries,[11] as well as Carly Fiorina during 
the 2016 primary election cycle.[12] He has been a frequent contributor 
of numerous political columns to the ESR (Enter Stage Right) online Journal 
of Conservativism. Shortly after leaving Law & Order, Moriarty moved to 
Canada, declaring himself a political exile. He lived for a time in Halifax, 
Nova Scotia, where he was granted Canadian citizenship, and Toronto, Ontario 
before settling in Vancouver, British Columbia. Moriarty lives in Maple 
Ridge, British Columbia, where he still acts, writes and plays music. On 
the blog Enter Stage Right Moriarty writes that he was a "very bad drunk", 
but that as of February 1, 2004, he had been sober for three years.[13] 
