Maurice Joseph "Mickey" McDermott, Jr. (April 29, 1929 – August 7, 2003) 
was an American left-handed pitcher in Major League Baseball. Mickey McDermott 
was the third son of Maurice McDermott, Sr., a police officer and former 
minor league baseball player. Maurice, replaced at first base on the Hartford 
Senators in the Eastern League by Lou Gehrig, had determined one of his 
three sons would grow up to be a baseball player and fulfill his dream, 
though his first-born son, Jimmy, died at the age of seven and his second 
son, Billy, was born with deformed legs. McDermott started playing first 
base, his father's position, until his coach at St. Mary's Grammar School 
noticed that his ball had a natural curve when thrown. By the time he was 
playing in the parochial school league for St. Patrick's High, he was averaging 
twenty strikeouts per game. McDermott played for the semi-pro Ferrara Trucking 
Company at the age of 13 against adults and some major league baseball 
players moonlighting to pick up some extra money. He went to his first 
tryout, also at the age of 13, with the Brooklyn Dodgers. Mule Haas, a 
scout for the Dodgers, said that he wanted to sign McDermott, but because 
of his age it was illegal. At the age of 15, his father changed his birth 
certificate to make it appear as though Mickey was 18 years old. Joe Cronin, 
general manager of the Red Sox, did some research and found out McDermott 
was only 15. Cronin and McDermott's father worked it out so that McDermott's 
father got a $5,000 signing bonus and two truck loads of Ballantine Beer 
for McDermott. McDermott was assigned to the Red Sox' Double A affiliate, 
the Scranton Red Sox of the Eastern League. He ended the season with a 
16–6 record and a 3.29 ERA, with 136 strikeouts in 175 innings. On July 
14, 1946, at the age of 17, McDermott threw a no-hitter against the Albany 
Senators, making him possibly the youngest pitcher to throw a no-hit game 
in the high minors. The following season, McDermott was promoted to Boston's 
Triple-A affiliate, the Louisville Colonels, where he struggled with his 
control. Subsequently, he was sent back to Scranton to work on his mechanics. 
In Scranton, he discovered his form, going 12–4 with four shutouts for 
the rest of the season, averaging almost one strikeout per inning. During 
the playoffs, McDermott, threw his second minor league no-hitter. Playing 
at home against the Utica Blue Sox, McDermott walked Richie Ashburn in 
the ninth inning. Ashburn took second on a fielders's choice and reached 
third on a sacrifice fly. With two outs, the catcher called for a curve, 
but McDermott missed the sign and threw a fastball. The catcher, expecting 
a curve, failed to catch the ball as it went sailing past him. Ashburn 
scored the only run of the game to give Utica the victory and McDermott 
the no-hit loss. McDermott made it onto the Red Sox roster for the beginning 
of the 1948 season, appearing in seven games during the first two months 
of the season, mostly in lopsided losses. In 23 innings, he had 16 strikeouts 
and 35 walks, thus was returned to Scranton for more seasoning. After the 
minor league season ended, he was recalled when the major league roster 
expanded for the playoff run. While with Scranton, McDermott threw his 
third career minor league no-hitter. After 1949 spring training, McDermott 
was assigned to the Louisville Colonels. On May 24, he struck out 20 St. 
Paul Saints to set a new American Association record that was never broken 
(the American Association folded in 1962). Over the next four games after 
his 20 strikeout performance, he struck out 19, 18, 17 and 19 to set a 
record for the most strikeouts over a five-game period, 93. Under pressure 
from sports writers, Boston, which was already eleven games out of first 
place, brought up McDermott to help their ailing pitching staff. McDermott 
got his first big league win after Ellis Kinder left the game in the first 
inning. McDermott pitched eight innings of shutout baseball before being 
lifted for a reliever. He finished the season with a 5–4 record and two 
shutouts. On May 29, 1952, McDermott faced 27 batters and fired a one-hitter 
to beat the Washington Senators, 1–0, at Fenway Park. Mel Hoderlein's fourth-inning 
single was the only Washington hit and he was thrown out while trying to 
stretch the hit into a double. His finest season came in 1953 when he went 
18–10. The following year, he was traded to the Senators for Jackie Jensen. 
He finished his career with a 69–69 record playing for several different 
teams. After he refused to sign with the Tigers for the 1959 season, the 
Tigers sold his contract to the Dallas Eagles of the Texas League, with 
whom he also refused to sign. Then Bill Veeck, owner of the triple A Miami 
Marlins of the International League, signed him to pitch on the same staff 
as Satchel Paige and Virgil Trucks. While playing winter ball in Cuba in 
1959, McDermott's team was at bat when Fidel Castro led the 26th of July 
Movement that overthrew the regime of Fulgencio Batista. Several people 
on the field and in the stands were shot, including McDermott's teammate 
and future Cincinnati Reds shortstop Leo Cárdenas. Before 1961, Detroit 
gave McDermott his unconditional release. He signed with the St. Louis 
Cardinals as a free agent. After divorcing his first wife, McDermott met 
Linda Biggio, who would become his second wife. After being out late one 
night, he invited Linda to his room. The hotel detective saw her dressed 
in a Hawaiian muumuu and said, "You can't bring that hooker into your room!" 
McDermott punched the detective in the mouth and was subsequently released 
by the Cardinals.[1] As McDermott's baseball career started winding down, 
he began to drink more. Eventually, he was drinking every night even when 
he was scheduled to pitch the next day. After pitching in the minor leagues 
for a while and taking odd jobs to make ends meet, McDermott's second wife, 
fed up with his alcoholic ways, divorced him. McDermott was hired by the 
California Angels in 1967 as an assistant pitching coach and batting practice 
pitcher. He was let go, with the rest of the coaching staff, after the 
1968 season. McDermott was eventually hired by Billy Martin, his former 
teammate, as a scout for the Oakland A's. McDermott turned in the first 
A's report on Mark McGwire, who eventually signed with them. McDermott 
was fired, along with the rest of the coaching staff, when Martin was fired 
after the 1982 season. McDermott, along with business partner Tino Barzie, 
started representing baseball players as agents. McDermott would recruit 
the players, and Barzie would negotiate the contracts. They ended up representing 
Tony Armas, Mario Guerrero, Alejandro Peña, Candy Maldonado and Marty Barrett. 
Barzie finally had to end his business relationship with McDermott due 
to the latter's heavy drinking. McDermott became close friends and drinking 
companions with Paul Gleason and Jack Kerouac. In 1991, after getting into 
a car wreck and being sentenced to 60 days in jail for numerous DWI's, 
McDermott became sober. He gave up drinking in 1991 when he and his wife 
won $7 million in the Arizona Lottery. Five years later, his wife, Betty, 
died of breast cancer. McDermott's health was not much better, as he went 
on to have a defibrillator and pacemaker surgically installed. He wrote 
a memoir of his playing (and non-playing) days called A Funny Thing Happened 
on the Way to Cooperstown, in which he blamed his health problems on his 
heavy drinking. McDermott lived long enough to see his book published. 
It was released in April 2003, and he died on August 7, in Phoenix, from 
