Mickey Charles Mantle (October 20, 1931 – August 13, 1995), nicknamed "The 
Commerce Comet" and "The Mick",[1] was an American professional baseball 
player. Mantle played his entire Major League Baseball (MLB) career with 
the New York Yankees as a center fielder and first baseman, from 1951 through 
1968. Mantle was one of the best players and sluggers, and is regarded 
by many as the greatest switch hitter in baseball history.[2] Mantle was 
inducted into the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 1974 [3] and was elected 
to the Major League Baseball All-Century Team in 1999. Mantle was arguably 
the greatest offensive threat of any center fielder in baseball history. 
He has the highest career OPS+ of any center fielder and he had the highest 
stolen base percentage in history at the time of his retirement. In addition, 
compared to the four other center fielders on the all-century team, he 
had the lowest career rate of grounding into double plays (by far) and 
he had the highest World Series on-base percentage and World Series slugging 
percentage. He also had an excellent 0.984 fielding percentage when playing 
center field. Mantle was noted for his ability to hit for both average 
and power,[4] especially tape measure home runs.[5] He hit 536 MLB career 
home runs, batted .300 or more ten times, and is the career leader (tied 
with Jim Thome) in walk-off home runs, with a combined thirteen, twelve 
in the regular season and one in the postseason. Mantle won the Triple 
Crown in 1956, leading the major leagues in batting average, home runs, 
and runs batted in (RBI); he later wrote a book about his best year in 
baseball.[6] He was an All-Star for 16 seasons, playing in 16 of the 20 
All-Star Games that were played.[a] He was an American League (AL) Most 
Valuable Player (MVP) three times and a Gold Glove winner once. Mantle 
appeared in 12 World Series including 7 championships, and holds World 
Series records for the most home runs (18), RBIs (40), extra-base hits 
(26), runs (42), walks (43), and total bases (123).[7] Mantle was born 
on October 20, 1931 in Spavinaw, Oklahoma, the son of lead miner Elvin 
Charles "Mutt" Mantle (1912–1952) and Lovell (née Richardson) Mantle (1904–1995).[8] 
He was of at least partial English ancestry; his great-grandfather, George 
Mantle, left Brierley Hill, in England's Black Country, in 1848.[9] Mutt 
named his son in honor of Mickey Cochrane, a Hall of Fame catcher.[8] Later 
in his life, Mantle expressed relief that his father had not known Cochrane's 
true first name, as he would have hated to be named Gordon.[10] Mantle 
spoke warmly of his father, and said he was the bravest man he ever knew. 
"No boy ever loved his father more", he said. Mantle batted left-handed 
against his father when he practiced pitching to him right-handed and he 
batted right-handed against his grandfather, Charles Mantle, when he practiced 
throwing to him left-handed. His grandfather died at the age of 60 in 1944, 
and his father died of Hodgkin's disease at the age of 40 on May 7, 1952.[11] 
When Mantle was four years old, his family moved to the nearby town of 
Commerce, Oklahoma, where his father worked in lead and zinc mines.[8] 
As a teenager, Mantle rooted for the St. Louis Cardinals.[12] Mantle was 
an all-around athlete at Commerce High School, playing basketball as well 
as football (he was offered a football scholarship by the University of 
Oklahoma) in addition to his first love, baseball. His football playing 
nearly ended his athletic career. Kicked in the left shin during a practice 
game during his sophomore year, Mantle developed osteomyelitis in his left 
ankle, a crippling disease that was incurable just a few years earlier. 
Mantle's parents drove him at midnight to Tulsa, Oklahoma, where he was 
treated with the newly available penicillin, which reduced the infection 
and saved his leg from requiring amputation.[8] Mantle began his professional 
baseball career in Kansas with the semi-professional Baxter Springs Whiz 
Kids.[8] In 1948, Yankees scout Tom Greenwade came to Baxter Springs to 
watch Mantle's teammate, third baseman Billy Johnson. During the game, 
Mantle hit three home runs. Greenwade returned in 1949, after Mantle's 
high school graduation, to sign Mantle to a minor league contract. Mantle 
signed for $140 per month with a $1,500 signing bonus.[8] Mantle was assigned 
to the Yankees' Class-D Independence Yankees of the Kansas–Oklahoma–Missouri 
League,[13] where he played shortstop.[8] During a slump, Mantle called 
his father to tell him he wanted to quit baseball. Mutt drove to Independence, 
Kansas and convinced Mantle to keep playing.[8] Mantle hit .313 for the 
Independence Yankees.[8][13] Shulthis Stadium, the baseball stadium in 
Independence where Mantle played, was the site of the first night game 
in organized baseball.[14] Mantle hit his first professional home run on 
June 30, 1949 at Shulthis Stadium. The ball went over the center field 
fence, which was 460 feet.[15] In 1950, Mantle was promoted to the Class-C 
Joplin Miners of the Western Association.[13] Mantle won the Western Association 
batting title, with a .383 average. He also hit 26 home runs and recorded 
136 runs batted in.[8] However, Mantle struggled defensively at shortstop.[8] 
Mantle was invited to the Yankees instructional camp before the 1951 season. 
After an impressive spring training, Yankees manager Casey Stengel decided 
to promote Mantle to the majors as a right fielder instead of sending him 
to the minors.[8] Mickey Mantle's salary for the 1951 season was $7,500. 
"He's the greatest prospect I've seen in my time, and I go back quite a 
ways. I'll swear I expect to see that boy just take off and fly any time." 
Mantle was assigned uniform #6, signifying the expectation that he would 
become the next Yankees star, following Babe Ruth (#3), Lou Gehrig (#4) 
and Joe DiMaggio (#5).[8] Stengel, speaking to SPORT, stated "He's got 
more natural power from both sides than anybody I ever saw."[17] Bill Dickey 
called Mantle "the greatest prospect [he's] seen in [his] time."[16] After 
a brief slump, Mantle was sent down to the Yankees' top farm team, the 
Kansas City Blues. However, he was not able to find the power he once had 
in the lower minors. Out of frustration, he called his father one day and 
told him, "I don't think I can play baseball anymore." Mutt drove up to 
Kansas City that day. When he arrived, he started packing his son's clothes 
and, according to Mantle's memory, said "I thought I raised a man. I see 
I raised a coward instead. You can come back to Oklahoma and work the mines 
with me."[18] Mantle immediately broke out of his slump, going on to hit 
.361 with 11 homers and 50 RBIs during his stay in Kansas City.[8] Mantle 
was called up to the Yankees after 40 games with Kansas City, this time 
wearing uniform #7.[8] He hit .267 with 13 home runs and 65 RBI in 96 games. 
In the second game of the 1951 World Series, New York Giants rookie Willie 
Mays hit a fly ball to right-center field. Mantle, playing right field, 
raced for the ball together with center fielder Joe DiMaggio, who called 
for the ball (and made the catch). In getting out of DiMaggio's way, Mantle 
tripped over an exposed drain pipe and severely injured his right knee. 
This was the first of numerous injuries that plagued his 18-year career 
with the Yankees. He played the rest of his career with a torn ACL. Mantle 
moved to center field in 1952, replacing DiMaggio, who retired at the end 
of the 1951 season.[8] He was selected an "All-Star" for the first time 
and made the AL team, but did not play in the 5-inning All-Star game that 
had Boston Red Sox Dom DiMaggio at center field. In his first complete 
World Series (1952), Mantle was the Yankees hitting star, with an on-base 
percentage above .400 and a slugging percentage above .600. He homered 
for the third Yankee run in a 3-2 Game 6 win and he knocked in the winning 
runs in the 4-2 Game 7 win, with a homer in the sixth inning and an RBI 
single in the seventh inning. Mantle played center field full-time for 
the Yankees until 1965, when he was moved to left field. His final two 
seasons were spent at first base. Among his many accomplishments are all-time 
World Series records for home runs (18), runs scored (42), and runs batted 
in (40).[19] The osteomyelitic condition of Mantle's left leg had exempted 
him from being drafted for military service since he was 18 in 1949,[20][21] 
but his emergence as a star center fielder in the major leagues during 
the Korean Conflict in 1952 led to questioning of his 4-F deferment by 
baseball fans. Two Armed Forces physicals were ordered, including a highly 
publicized exam on November 4, 1952 which was brought on by his All-Star 
selection, that ended in a final rejection.[21][22] Mantle had a breakout 
season in 1956 after showing progressive improvement each of his first 
five years. Described by him as his "favorite summer", his major league 
leading .353 batting average, 52 home runs, and 130 runs batted in brought 
home both the Triple Crown and first of three MVP awards. He also hit his 
second All-Star Game home run that season. Mantle's performance was so 
exceptional he was bestowed the Hickok Belt (unanimously) as the top American 
professional athlete of the year. He is the only player to win a league 
Triple Crown as a switch hitter. Mantle won his second consecutive MVP 
in 1957[23] behind league leads in runs and walks, a career-high .365 batting 
average (second to Ted Williams' .388), and hitting into a league-low five 
double plays. Mantle reached base more times than he made outs (319 to 
312), one of two seasons in which he achieved the feat.[citation needed] 
The 1959 season was the first of four consecutive seasons that two All-Star 
games were played and Mantle played in seven of these games.[24] Mantle 
made the AL All-Star team as a reserve player in 1959, and was used as 
a pinch runner for Baltimore Orioles catcher Gus Triandos and replacement 
right fielder for Cleveland Indians Rocky Colavito in the first game with 
Detroit Tigers Al Kaline playing the center field position. Mantle was 
the starting center fielder in the second All-Star game's lineup, getting 
a single and a walk in four at bats. In 1960, Mantle started in both All-Star 
games, getting two walks in the first and a single in the second game. 
On January 16, 1961, Mantle became the highest-paid player in baseball 
by signing a $75,000 ($594,905 today) contract.[25] DiMaggio, Hank Greenberg, 
and Ted Williams, who had just retired, had been paid over $100,000 in 
a season, and Ruth had a peak salary of $80,000. Mantle became the highest-paid 
active player of his time. Mantle's top salary was $100,000, which he reached 
for the 1963 season. Having reached that pinnacle in his 13th season, he 
never asked for another raise.[26] During the 1961 season, Mantle and teammate 
Roger Maris, known as the M&M Boys, chased Babe Ruth's 1927 single-season 
home run record. Five years earlier, in 1956, Mantle had challenged Ruth's 
record for most of the season, and the New York press had been protective 
of Ruth on that occasion also. When Mantle finally fell short, finishing 
with 52, there seemed to be a collective sigh of relief from the New York 
traditionalists. Nor had the New York press been all that kind to Mantle 
in his early years with the team: he struck out frequently, was injury-prone, 
was a "true hick" from Oklahoma, and was perceived as being distinctly 
inferior to his predecessor in center field, Joe DiMaggio. Over the course 
of time, however, Mantle (with a little help from his teammate Whitey Ford, 
a native of New York's Borough of Queens) had gotten better at "schmoozing" 
with the New York media, and had gained the favor of the press. This was 
a talent that Maris, a blunt-spoken upper-Midwesterner, was never willing 
or able to cultivate; as a result, he wore the "surly" jacket for his duration 
with the Yankees. So as 1961 progressed, the Yanks were now "Mickey Mantle's 
team," and Maris was ostracized as the "outsider," and said to be "not 
a true Yankee." The press seemed to root for Mantle and to belittle Maris. 
Mantle was unexpectedly hospitalized by an abscessed hip he got from a 
flu shot late in the season, leaving Maris to break the record (he finished 
with 61). Mantle finished with 54 home runs while leading the American 
league in runs scored and walks. In 1962, Mantle batted .321 in 123 games. 
He was selected an All-Star for the eleventh consecutive season and played 
in the first game,[27] but due to a former injury acting up, he didn't 
play in the second All-Star game. In 1963, he batted .314 in 65 games. 
On June 5, he tried to prevent a home run by Brooks Robinson in Baltimore 
and got his shoe spikes caught in the center field chain link fence as 
he leaped against the fence for the ball and was coming down. He broke 
his foot and didn't return playing again until August 4 when he hit a pinch-hit 
home run against the Baltimore Orioles in Yankee Stadium. He returned to 
the center field position on September 2. On June 29, he had been selected 
an All-Star as a starting center fielder, but for the first time, he didn't 
make the 25-player team due to the foot injury.[28] In 1964, Mantle hit 
.303 with 35 home runs and 111 RBIs, and played center field in the All-Star 
game. In the bottom of the ninth inning of Game 3 of the 1964 World Series 
against the St. Louis Cardinals, Mantle blasted Barney Schultz's first 
pitch into the right field stands at Yankee Stadium, which won the game 
for the Yankees 2–1. The homer, his 16th World Series round tripper, broke 
the World Series record of 15 set by Babe Ruth. He hit two more homers 
in the series to set the existing World Series record of 18 home runs. 
The Cardinals ultimately won the World Series in 7 games. The Yankees and 
Mantle were slowed down by injuries during the 1965 season, and they finished 
in sixth place, 25 games behind the Minnesota Twins.[29] He hit .255 with 
19 home runs and 46 RBI. Mantle was selected an AL All-Star again, as a 
reserve player, but did not make the 28-player squad for the second and 
last time due to an injury and was replaced by Tony Oliva. To inaugurate 
the Astrodome, the world's first multi-purpose, domed sports stadium, the 
Houston Astros and the New York Yankees played an exhibition game on April 
9, 1965. Mantle hit the park's first home run.[30] In 1966, his batting 
average increased to .288 with 23 home runs and 56 RBI. After the 1966 
season, he was moved to first base with Joe Pepitone taking over his place 
in the outfield. On May 14, 1967 (Mother's Day), Mantle became the sixth 
member of the 500 home run club. Mantle hit .237 with 18 home runs and 
54 RBI during his final season in 1968.[31] He was selected an AL All-Star 
and pinched hit at the All-Star Game on July 11. Mantle was selected an 
All-Star every season during his eighteen-year career except 1951 and 1966, 
and did not play in the 1952, 1963, and 1965 seasons.[22][32] Mantle announced 
his retirement on March 1, 1969. He gave a "farewell" speech on "Mickey 
Mantle Day", June 8, 1969, in Yankee Stadium. Mantle's wife, mother, and 
mother-in-law were in attendance and received recognition at the ceremony 
held in honor of him.[33] When he retired, Mantle was third on the all-time 
home run list with 536,[31] and he was the Yankees all-time leader in games 
played with 2,401, which was broken by Derek Jeter on August 29, 2011.[34] 
Mantle's last "unofficial" home run was in 1973 during the "Old Timers" 
game with Whitey Ford pitching. Mantle hit the home run in the original 
Yankee Stadium with 46,000 spectators in attendance.[citation needed] Mantle 
hit some of the longest home runs in Major League history. On September 
10, 1960, he hit a ball left-handed that cleared the right-field roof at 
Tiger Stadium in Detroit and, based on where it was found, was estimated 
years later by historian Mark Gallagher to have traveled 643 feet (196 m). 
Another Mantle homer, hit right-handed off Chuck Stobbs at Griffith Stadium 
in Washington, D.C. on April 17, 1953, was measured by Yankees traveling 
secretary Red Patterson (hence the term "tape-measure home run") to have 
traveled 565 feet (172 m). Deducting for bounces,[5] there is no doubt 
that both landed well over 500 feet (152 m) from home plate. Mantle three 
times hit balls off the third-deck facade at Yankee Stadium, nearly becoming 
the only player to hit a fair ball out of the stadium during a game. On 
May 22, 1963, against Kansas City's Bill Fischer, Mantle hit a ball that 
fellow players and fans claimed was still rising when it hit the 110-foot 
(34 m) high facade, then caromed back onto the playing field. It was later 
estimated by some that the ball could have traveled 504 feet (154 m)[35] 
had it not been blocked by the ornate and distinctive facade. On August 
12, 1964, he hit one whose distance was undoubted: a center field drive 
that cleared the 22-foot (6.7 m) batter's eye screen, some 75' beyond the 
461-foot (141 m) marker at the Stadium. Although he was a feared power 
hitter from either side of the plate and hit more home runs batting left-handed 
than right, Mantle considered himself a better right-handed hitter.[36] 
In roughly 25% of his total at-bats he hit .330 right-handed to .281 left.[37] 
His 372 to 164 home run disparity was due to Mantle having batted left-handed 
much more often, as the large majority of pitchers are right-handed. In 
spite of short foul pole dimension of 296 feet (90 m) to left and 301 feet 
(92 m) to right in original Yankee Stadium, Mantle gained no advantage 
there as his stroke both left and right-handed drove balls there to power 
alleys of 344' to 407' and 402' to 457' feet (139 m) from the plate. Overall, 
he hit slightly more home runs away (270) than home (266).[38] Surprisingly, 
Mantle was also one of the best bunters for basehits of all-time. He is 
in 10th place in number of bases-empty bunt singles for his career with 
80, in only 148 at-bats.[39] There are no other power hitters in the rest 
of the top ten. Mantle's career was plagued with injuries. Beginning in 
high school, he suffered both acute and chronic injuries to bones and cartilage 
in his legs. Applying thick wraps to both of his knees became a pre-game 
ritual, and by the end of his career simply swinging a bat caused him to 
fall to one knee in pain. Baseball scholars often ponder "what if" had 
he not been injured, and had been able to lead a healthy career.[40][41] 
As a 19-year-old rookie in his first World Series, Mantle tore the cartilage 
in his right knee on a fly ball by Willie Mays while playing right field. 
Joe DiMaggio, in the last year of his career, was playing center field. 
Mays' fly was hit to shallow center, and as Mantle came over to back up 
DiMaggio, Mantle's cleats caught a drainage cover in the outfield grass. 
His knee twisted awkwardly and he instantly fell. Witnesses say it looked 
"like he had been shot." He was carried off the field on a stretcher and 
watched the rest of the World Series on TV from a hospital bed.[41] Dr. 
Stephen Haas, medical director for the National Football League Players 
Association, has speculated that Mantle may have torn his anterior cruciate 
ligament (ACL) during the incident and played the rest of his career without 
having it properly treated since ACLs could not be repaired with the surgical 
techniques available in that era.[42] Still, Mantle was known as the "fastest 
man to first base" and won the American League triple crown in 1956. In 
1949, he received a draft-examine notice and was about to be drafted by 
the US Army but failed the physical exam and was rejected as unqualified 
and was given a 4-F deferment for any military service.[20][21] During 
the 1957 World Series, Milwaukee Braves second baseman Red Schoendienst 
fell on Mantle's left shoulder in a collision at second base.[43] Over 
the next decade, Mantle experienced increasing difficulty hitting from 
his left side. Mantle served as a part-time color commentator on NBC's 
baseball coverage in 1969, teaming with Curt Gowdy and Tony Kubek to call 
some Game of the Week telecasts as well as that year's All-Star Game. In 
1972 he was a part-time TV commentator for the Montreal Expos. Despite 
being among the best-paid players of the pre-free agency era, Mantle was 
a poor businessman, making several bad investments. His lifestyle was restored 
to one of luxury, and his hold on his fans raised to an amazing level, 
by his position of leadership in the sports memorabilia craze that swept 
the USA, beginning in the 1980s. Mantle was a prized guest at any baseball 
card show, commanding fees far in excess of any other player for his appearances 
and autographs. This popularity continues long after his death, as Mantle-related 
items far outsell those of any other player except possibly Babe Ruth, 
whose items, due to the distance of years, now exist in far smaller quantities. 
Mantle insisted that the promoters of baseball card shows always include 
one of the lesser-known Yankees of his era, such as Moose Skowron or Hank 
Bauer so that they could earn some money from the event. Despite the failure 
of Mickey Mantle's Country Cookin' restaurants in the early 1970s, Mickey 
Mantle's Restaurant & Sports Bar opened in New York at 42 Central Park 
South (59th Street) in 1988. It became one of New York's most popular restaurants, 
and his original Yankee Stadium Monument Park plaque is displayed at the 
front entrance. Mantle let others run the business operations, but made 
frequent appearances. In 1983, Mantle worked at the Claridge Resort and 
Casino in Atlantic City, New Jersey, as a greeter and community representative. 
Most of his activities were representing the Claridge in golf tournaments 
and other charity events. But Mantle was suspended from baseball by Commissioner 
Bowie Kuhn on the grounds that any affiliation with gambling was grounds 
for being placed on the "permanently ineligible" list. Kuhn warned Mantle 
before he accepted the position that he would have to place him on the 
list if Mantle went to work there. Hall of Famer Willie Mays, who had also 
taken a similar position, had already had action taken against him. Mantle 
accepted the position, regardless, as he felt the rule was "stupid." He 
was placed on the list, but reinstated on March 18, 1985, by Kuhn's successor, 
Peter Ueberroth.[44] In 1992, Mantle wrote My Favorite Summer 1956 about 
his 1956 season.[45] Well before he finally sought treatment for alcoholism, 
Mantle admitted his hard living had hurt both his playing and his family. 
His rationale was that the men in his family had all died young, so he 
expected to die young as well.[46] His father died of Hodgkin's disease 
at age 40 in 1952, and his grandfather also died young of the same disease. 
"I'm not gonna be cheated", he would say. Mantle did not know at the time 
that most of the men in his family had inhaled lead and zinc dust in the 
mines, which contribute to Hodgkins' and other cancers.[citation needed] 
As the years passed, and he outlived all the men in his family by several 
years, he frequently used a line popularized by football legend Bobby Layne, 
a Dallas neighbor and friend of Mantle's who also died in part due to alcohol 
abuse: "If I'd known I was gonna live this long, I'd have taken a lot better 
care of myself."[47] Mantle's wife and sons all completed treatment for 
alcoholism, and told him he needed to do the same. He checked into the 
Betty Ford Clinic on January 7, 1994, after being told by a doctor that 
his liver was so badly damaged from almost 40 years of drinking that it 
"looked like a doorstop." He also bluntly told Mantle that the damage to 
his system was so severe that "your next drink could be your last." Also 
helping Mantle to make the decision to go to the Betty Ford Clinic was 
sportscaster Pat Summerall, who had played for the New York Giants football 
team while they played at Yankee Stadium, by then a recovering alcoholic 
and a member of the same Dallas-area country club as Mantle; Summerall 
himself had been treated at the clinic in 1992. Shortly after Mantle completed 
treatment, his son Billy died on March 12, 1994, at age 36 of heart problems 
brought on by years of substance abuse. Despite the fears of those who 
knew him that this tragedy would send him back to drinking, he remained 
sober. Mickey Jr. later died of liver cancer on December 20, 2000, at age 
47. Danny later battled prostate cancer. Mantle spoke with great remorse 
of his drinking in a 1994 Sports Illustrated cover story.[48] He said that 
he was telling the same old stories, and realizing how many of them involved 
himself and others being drunk – including at least one drunk-driving accident 
– he decided they were not funny anymore. He admitted he had often been 
cruel and hurtful to family, friends, and fans because of his alcoholism, 
and sought to make amends. Mantle became a born-again Christian because 
of his former teammate Bobby Richardson, an ordained Baptist minister who 
shared his faith with him. After the bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal 
Building in Oklahoma City on April 19, 1995, Mantle joined with fellow 
Oklahoman and Yankee Bobby Murcer to raise money for the victims.[citation 
needed] Mantle received a liver transplant at Baylor University Medical 
Center in Dallas, on June 8, 1995. His liver was severely damaged by alcohol-induced 
cirrhosis, as well as hepatitis C. Prior to the operation, doctors also 
discovered he had inoperable liver cancer known as an undifferentiated 
hepatocellular carcinoma, further necessitating a transplant.[49][50] In 
July, he had recovered enough to deliver a press conference at Baylor, 
and noted that many fans had looked to him as a role model. "This is a 
role model: Don't be like me", a frail Mantle said. He also established 
the Mickey Mantle Foundation to raise awareness for organ donations. Soon, 
he was back in the hospital, where it was found that his cancer was rapidly 
spreading throughout his body. Though Mantle was very popular, his liver 
transplant was a source of some controversy. Some felt that his fame had 
permitted him to receive a donor liver in just one day,[51] bypassing other 
patients who had been waiting much longer. Mantle's doctors insisted that 
the decision was based solely on medical criteria, but acknowledged that 
the very short wait created the appearance of favoritism.[52] While he 
was recovering, Mantle made peace with his estranged wife, Merlyn, and 
repeated a request he made decades before for Bobby Richardson to read 
a poem at his funeral if he died.[53] Mantle died on August 13, 1995, at 
Baylor University Medical Center with his wife at his side, five months 
after his mother had died at age 91. The Yankees played Cleveland that 
day and honored him with a tribute. At Mantle's funeral, Eddie Layton played 
"Somewhere Over the Rainbow" on the Hammond organ because Mickey had once 
told him it was his favorite song. Roy Clark sang and played "Yesterday, 
When I Was Young." The team played the rest of the season with black mourning 
bands topped by a small number 7 on their left sleeves. Mantle was interred 
in the Sparkman-Hillcrest Memorial Park Cemetery in Dallas. In eulogizing 
Mantle, sportscaster Bob Costas described him as "a fragile hero to whom 
we had an emotional attachment so strong and lasting that it defied logic." 
Costas added: "In the last year of his life, Mickey Mantle, always so hard 
on himself, finally came to accept and appreciate the distinction between 
a role model and a hero. The first, he often was not. The second, he always 
will be. And, in the end, people got it."[54] Richardson did oblige in 
reading the poem at Mantle's funeral, something he described as being extremely 
difficult.[53] The same poem (God's Hall of Fame) which originated from 
a baseball fan, was recited by Richardson for Roger Maris during Maris' 
funeral.[55] After Mantle's death, his family pursued a federal court lawsuit 
against Greer Johnson, his agent and a live-in aide during the last decade 
of his life, to stop her from auctioning many of Mantle's personal items, 
including a lock of hair, a neck brace, and expired credit cards. Eventually, 
the two sides reached a settlement, ensuring the sale of some of Mickey 
Mantle's belongings for approximately $500,000.[56] On December 23, 1951, 
Mantle married Merlyn Johnson (1932–2009) in Commerce, Oklahoma; they had 
four sons.[57] In an autobiography, Mantle said he married Merlyn not out 
of love, but because he was told to by his domineering father. While his 
drinking became public knowledge during his lifetime, the press (per established 
practice at the time) kept quiet about his many marital infidelities. Mantle 
was not entirely discreet about them, and when he went to his retirement 
ceremony in 1969, he brought his mistress along with his wife. In 1980, 
Mickey and Merlyn separated for 15 years, but neither filed for divorce. 
During this time, Mantle lived with his agent, Greer Johnson, who was not 
related to Mantle's wife. The couple's four sons were Mickey Jr. (1953–2000), 
David (born 1955), Billy (1957–94), whom Mickey named for Billy Martin, 
his best friend among his Yankee teammates, and Danny (born 1960). Like 
Mickey, Merlyn and three of their sons became alcoholics,[58] and Billy 
developed Hodgkin's disease, as had several previous men in Mantle's family. 
During the final years of his life, Mantle purchased a luxury condominium 
on Lake Oconee near Greensboro, Georgia, near Greer Johnson's home, and 
frequently stayed there for months at a time. He occasionally attended 
the local Methodist church, and sometimes ate Sunday dinner with members 
of the congregation. He was well-liked by the citizens of Greensboro, and 
seemed to like them in return. This was probably because the town respected 
Mantle's privacy, refusing either to talk about their famous neighbor to 
outsiders or to direct fans to his home. In one interview, Mantle stated 
that the people of Greensboro had "gone out of their way to make me feel 
welcome, and I've found something there I haven't enjoyed since I was a 
kid." Mantle's off-field behavior is the subject of the book The Last Boy: 
Mickey Mantle and the End of America's Childhood, written in 2010 by sports 
journalist Jane Leavy.[59] Excerpts from the book have been published in 
Sports Illustrated. Mantle is the uncle of actor and musician Kelly Mantle.[60] 
Mantle was inducted into the Oklahoma Hall of Fame in 1964.[61] On Mickey 
Mantle Day at Yankee Stadium, June 8, 1969, Mantle's Number 7 was retired 
and he was a given a bronze plaque to be hung on the center field wall 
near the monuments to Babe Ruth, Lou Gehrig, and Miller Huggins.[62] The 
plaque was officially presented to Mantle by Joe DiMaggio. Mantle afterwards, 
gave a similar plaque to DiMaggio, telling the huge crowd in Yankee Stadium, 
"Joe DiMaggio's deserves to be higher."[63] In response, DiMaggio's plaque 
was hung one inch higher than Mantle's.[64] When Yankee Stadium was reopened 
in 1976 following its renovation, the plaques and monuments were moved 
to a newly created Monument Park behind the left-center field fence.[64] 
Shortly before his death, Mantle videotaped a message to be played on Old-Timers' 
Day, which he was too ill to attend. He said, "When I die, I wanted on 
my tombstone, 'A great teammate.' But I didn't think it would be this soon." 
The words were indeed carved on the plaque marking his resting place at 
the family mausoleum in Dallas. On August 25, 1996, about a year after 
his death, Mantle's Monument Park plaque was replaced with a monument, 
bearing the words "A great teammate" and keeping a phrase that had been 
included on the original plaque: "A magnificent Yankee who left a legacy 
of unequaled courage." Mantle's original plaque, along with DiMaggio's, 
are now on display at the Yogi Berra Museum and Learning Center, with the 
DiMaggio plaque still hung higher than Mantle's. Mantle and former teammate 
Whitey Ford were elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame together in 1974, 
Mantle's first year of eligibility, Ford's second.[65] Beginning in 1997, 
the Topps Baseball Card company retired card #7 in its baseball sets in 
tribute to Mantle, whose career was taking off just as Topps began producing 
them. Mantle's cards, especially his 1952 Topps, are extremely popular 
and valuable among card collectors. Topps un-retired the #7 in 2006 to 
use exclusively for cards of Mantle made with each year's design. In 1998, 
"The Sporting News" placed Mantle at 17th on its list of "Baseball's 100 
Greatest Players".[66] That same year, he was one of 100 nominees for the 
Major League Baseball All-Century Team, and was chosen by fan balloting 
as one of the team's outfielders. ESPN's SportsCentury series that ran 
in 1999 ranked him No. 37 on its "50 Greatest Athletes" series. A school 
was renamed for Mantle in Manhattan, New York on June 4, 2002. In 2006, 
Mantle was featured on a United States postage stamp,[67] one of a series 
of four including fellow baseball legends Mel Ott, Roy Campanella, and 
Hank Greenberg. A statue of Mantle is located at Mickey Mantle Plaza at 
Chickasaw Bricktown Ballpark, the home stadium of the Triple-A Oklahoma 
City Dodgers, 2 South Mickey Mantle Drive in Oklahoma City.[68] Mantle 
made a (talking) cameo appearance in Teresa Brewer's 1956 song "I Love 
Mickey", which extolled Mantle's power hitting.[73] The song was included 
in one of the Baseball's Greatest Hits CDs. In 1962, Mantle and Maris starred 
as themselves in the movie Safe at Home! This was followed that year by 
the Universal Pictures film, That Touch of Mink, starring Cary Grant and 
Doris Day. During the movie, Mickey Mantle is seen in the Yankees dugout 
with Roger Maris and Yogi Berra, sitting next to Day and Grant as Day shouts 
her dissatisfaction with the umpire, Art Passarella. In 1980, Mantle had 
a cameo appearance in the The White Shadow, and in 1983, he had a cameo 
appearance in Remington Steele with Whitey Ford. In 1981, the song "Talkin' 
Baseball" by Terry Cashman had the refrain, "Willie, Mickey, and The Duke". 
In 1993 and 1996, Mantle is referenced multiple times in the sitcom Seinfeld, 
specifically the episodes "The Visa" (1993), where Kramer punches him while 
at a baseball fantasy camp, and "The Seven" (1996), where George Costanza 
wants to name his future baby 'Seven' based on Mickey Mantle's uniform 
number.[74] In 1998, award-winning poet B. H. Fairchild published a narrative 
baseball poem Body and Soul that depicted the young Mickey Mantle in 1946. 
The 2001 film 61*, produced by Yankee fan Billy Crystal, chronicled Mantle 
and Roger Maris chasing Babe Ruth's 1927 single season home run record 
in 1961. Mantle was played by Thomas Jane, and Maris by Barry Pepper. Mantle's 
son Danny and grandson Will appeared briefly as a father and son watching 
Mantle hit a home run.[75] In 2003, Tom Russell's album Modern Art included 
the song "The Kid from Spavinaw", retelling the arc of Mantle's career. 
In 2013–14, the Broadway play Bronx Bombers includes Mantle as a character.[76] 
