Mickey is a 2004 American baseball drama film that stars Harry Connick, 
Jr., directed by Hugh Wilson, and written by best-selling novelist John 
Grisham. Mickey was filmed in 2004, at baseball fields in Colonial Heights, 
Richmond, and Petersburg, Virginia, and also South Williamsport, Pennsylvania, 
home of baseball's Little League World Series (LLWS). Grisham played Little 
League in his home state of Mississippi. He wrote the first draft for Mickey 
in 1995, inspired by his Little League experience as a coach. Grisham and 
director Wilson live in the Virginia area where much of the filming took 
place. Mickey was only the second film, after 1994's Little Giants, to 
receive permission to use the Little League trademarks. Tripp Spence (Harry 
Connick, Jr.) is a widowed Virginia-based lawyer who becomes the focus 
of an intensive IRS investigation regarding false bankruptcy claims he 
filed during his wife's fatal illness. Realizing his case against the inevitable 
criminal charges is hopeless, he takes his 13-year-old son Derrick (Shawn 
Salinas), who loves playing Little League baseball and is competing in 
his final year of eligibility due to age restrictions, and flees from the 
investigation, moving out west to Las Vegas, Nevada. Through a corporate 
connection, Tripp acquires new identities for the two of them, with Tripp 
becoming Glen Simon Ryan and Derrick becoming Michael "Mickey" Jacob Ryan, 
whose fictional backstory is that they recently moved into town from Fort 
Lauderdale, Florida. Derrick's new identity makes him a year younger, which 
enables him to play another year of Little League, an endeavor both of 
them look forward to since their spontaneous move forced Derrick to miss 
his All-Star team's participation in the official Little League qualifier 
tournaments. Tripp researches the local Little League operations and discovers 
that the most successful league's top team is coached by Tony (Mike Starr). 
Tripp contacts Tony and convinces him to give Mickey a private tryout session 
by reciting the Fort Lauderdale story (Florida is known as a major "hotzone" 
for youth baseball). Tony is impressed with Mickey's pitching velocity 
and ultimately drafts Mickey once the real tryouts roll around. Glen also 
begins dating Patty, who works at Mickey's school. A full year of physical 
development ahead of the rest of the players, Mickey displays outstanding 
abilities on the field, quickly emerging as the league's top pitcher and 
hitter, which unanimously earns him a spot on the All-Star team. Glen is 
initially satisfied, but begins to worry as Mickey's team continuously 
ascends their way through the district and regional brackets, which attracts 
considerable media attention as they earn a spot at the Little League World 
Series in Williamsport, Pennsylvania. Paranoid that the media attention 
will ultimately give away their location to the IRS, Glen tries to convince 
Mickey to quit playing, but Mickey refuses to let his new friends down, 
stating that they knew the risks from the beginning. After pitching a perfect 
game against the Gulf States team, Mickey removes the faux glasses that 
were used as a disguise (despite Glen's warnings not to), which allows 
the IRS agents pursuing Glen and Mickey to positively identify them. Mickey's 
team ultimately reaches the Little League World Series Championship game 
as the U.S. representative against a highly publicized team from Cuba, 
the International finalist. The IRS agent in charge of the investigation 
approaches Glen, telling him he will be arrested following the tournament. 
During the game, a politician who had vowed to ban the Cuban team from 
participating in the tournament passes on information to LLWS officials 
of ineligible players on both the Cuban and U.S. teams. It is found that 
the Cuban team, which is supposed to be strictly from Havana, is made up 
of All Star players from various island teams, and Mickey and Glen's true 
identities are exposed. Following the game, Glen is arrested and a press 
conference is called. Tripp/Glen reveals the truth about Derrick/Mickey. 
The LLWS Commissioner announces that both teams' participation in the tournament 
will be forfeited, and that the semifinal losers will play the next day 
for the championship. Derrick confesses the truth to his coach and teammates, 
but his friends forgive him because they never would've made it as far 
as they did without him. Derrick visits Tripp at the local precinct, where 
they say goodbye. After a year in prison, Tripp is released, and in the 
final scene he throws a baseball to Derrick that hits the windshield of 
Patty's car. According to the International Movie Data Base, the film Mickey 
