The Micronesian Games (or "Micro Games", "MicroGames") are a quadrennial 
international multi-sport event within the Micronesian region. The Games 
were first held in 1969 in Saipan (Northern Mariana Islands). The 2010 
Micronesian Games were initially due to be held in Majuro (Marshall Islands), 
until the hosts withdrew. The 2010 Games were hosted by Palau.[1] The Federated 
States of Micronesia won the bidding to host the 2014 Micronesian Games 
in Pohnpei State, and later won again against CNMI for the 2018 Micronesian 
Games to be held in Yap State.[2] [3][4] After the inaugural 1969 edition, 
the Games were supposed to be a regular event. However, the second edition 
did not take place until 1990. Since then, the Games have been held every 
four years without fail. Participants include four sovereign countries 
(the Marshall Islands, Kiribati, Nauru, and Palau), a commonwealth in political 
union with the United States (the Northern Mariana Islands), an organized 
unincorporated territory of the United States (Guam), and the four constituent 
States of the Federated States of Micronesia (Chuuk, Pohnpei, Kosrae and 
Yap, which compete separately from one another). These ten countries, States 
and territories are all located within the Micronesian region of Oceania. 
All participants also take part in the Pacific Games, although the Federated 
States of Micronesia competes as a unified country there. Athletes compete 
in the fields of athletics, baseball, basketball, beach volleyball, coconut 
tree climbing, coconut husking, fast pitch softball, golf, slow pitch softball, 
spearfishing, swimming, table tennis, triathlon, va'a canoe, volleyball 
and wrestling, as well as the "micro all around". The Micronesian Games 
thus combine events that may be found in other international competitions 
with events more specific to Micronesian countries. Coconut tree climbing 
and coconut husking appear to have been demonstration events at the 2006 
Games: they are listed as events on the Games' official website, but are 
