The Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference (MEAC) is a collegiate athletic conference 
whose full members are historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs) 
in the Southeastern and the Mid-Atlantic United States. It participates 
in the National Collegiate Athletic Association's Division I, and in football, 
in the Football Championship Subdivision (FCS). Currently, the MEAC has 
automatic qualifying bids for NCAA postseason play in baseball (since 1994), 
men’s basketball (since 1981), women’s basketball (since 1982), football 
(1996-2015), softball (since 1995), men and women’s tennis (since 1998), 
and volleyball (since 1994). Bowling was officially sanctioned as a MEAC 
governed sport in 1999. Before that season, the MEAC was the first conference 
to secure NCAA sanctioning for women’s bowling by adopting the club sport 
prior to the 1996-97 school year. In 1969, a group, whose members were 
long associated with interscholastic athletics, met in Durham, North Carolina 
with the purpose of discussing the organization of a new conference. After 
the formulation of a committee, and their research reported, seven institutions: 
Delaware State University, Howard University, University of Maryland Eastern 
Shore, Morgan State University, North Carolina A&T State University, North 
Carolina Central University and South Carolina State College agreed to 
become the Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference.[1] The conference's main goals 
were to establish and supervise an intercollegiate athletic program among 
a group of educational institutions that shared the same academic standards 
and philosophy of co-curricular activities and seek status as a Division 
I conference for all of its sports. The conference was confirmed in 1970, 
and had its first season of competition in football in 1971. The MEAC has 
had to date, three full-time commissioners.[1] In 1978, the MEAC selected 
its first full-time commissioner, Kenneth A. Free, who served as Commissioner 
until he resigned in 1995. He was succeeded by Charles S. Harris, who served 
at the position until 2002. On September 1, 2002, Dennis E. Thomas became 
the conference’s commissioner. The MEAC experienced its first expansion 
in 1979 when Bethune–Cookman College (Now Bethune–Cookman University) and 
Florida A&M University were admitted as new members. That same year, founding 
members Morgan State University, North Carolina Central University and 
University of Maryland Eastern Shore withdrew from the conference. All 
three schools eventually returned to the conference; Maryland Eastern Shore 
rejoined in 1981, Morgan State in 1984, and North Carolina Central in 2010. 
On June 8, 1980, the MEAC was classified as a Division I conference by 
the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA). Prior to that year, 
the league operated as a Division II conference. The following month the 
MEAC received an automatic qualification to the NCAA Division I Men's Basketball 
Championship. In 1984, membership in the MEAC again changed as Florida 
A&M chose to leave. The university would return to the conference two years 
later. Coppin State College, now Coppin State University, joined the conference 
in 1985. The MEAC would find stability in membership with the addition 
of two HBCUs in Virginia, Hampton University and Norfolk State University 
in 1995 and 1997 respectively. For the next 10 years, the MEAC would remain 
an 11-member conference. In 2007, former CIAA member Winston-Salem State 
University was granted membership, but announced on September 11, 2009 
that it would return to Division II at the end of 2009-2010 and apply to 
return to the CIAA before ever becoming a full member of the MEAC.[2] North 
Carolina Central University rejoined the conference effective July 1, 2010.[3][4] 
NCCU was one of seven founding member institutions of the MEAC, but withdrew 
from the conference in 1979, opting to remain a Division II member when 
the conference reclassified to Division I.[3] Savannah State University 
was announced as the newest member of the MEAC on March 10, 2010.[4] Savannah 
State originally applied for membership into the MEAC in 2006 but faced 
an NCAA probationary period soon after. Membership was then deferred until 
the completion of the imposed probation period, which ended in May 2009. 
Savannah State then resubmitted their application for membership again 
in 2009 and was finally granted probationary membership status.[4] On September 
8, 2011, the university was confirmed as a full MEAC member.[5] While the 
MEAC has had no new full members since then, the conference added an associate 
member in 2014 when Augusta University, then known as Georgia Regents University, 
a Division II institution with Division I programs in men's and women's 
golf, joined for men's golf.[6] Augusta became the MEAC's first associate 
member and first non-HBCU with any type of membership. Full members Full 
members (non-football) Associate members Other Conference Other Conference 
The MEAC sponsors championship competition in seven men's and eight women's 
NCAA sanctioned sports:[27] North Carolina A&T The MEAC is one of two Division 
I conferences comprising HBCUs, the other being the SWAC. Until 2015, the 
MEAC sent its champion and occasional at-large schools to the Football 
Championship Subdivision playoffs. Starting in 2015, the MEAC will give 
up its automatic postseason bid and will play an annual championship game 
against the SWAC champion in the Celebration Bowl in the Georgia Dome. 
On June 8, 1980, the MEAC earned the classification as a Division I conference 
by the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA). Since 1981, the 
MEAC has received a qualifying bid to NCAA post season play in the sport 
of basketball. In three cases, MEAC schools seeded 15th (Coppin State in 
1997, Hampton in 2001, Norfolk State in 2012) defeated second-seeded teams 
in the NCAA tournament. In 2008, Coppin State again made history by being 
the first 20-loss team to play in the NCAA Tournament. Bethune-Cookman 
won the Florida Regional in 2005, the first NCAA Regional Final ever won 
by a MEAC school, and ended that season ranked #18 in a national poll.[32] 
Atlantic slave trade · Maafa Slavery in the United States Reconstruction 
Era Military history of African Americans Jim Crow laws · Redlining Great 
Migration Civil Rights Movements: 1896–1954 and 1954–68 Second Great Migration 
Afrocentrism Post-Civil Rights era Inauguration of Barack Obama African-American 
studies Black mecca · Neighborhoods · Juneteenth Black Colleges and Universities 
Kwanzaa · Art · Museums Dance · Literature · Music · Schools Black church 
Black theology Doctrine of Father Divine American Society of Muslims Nation 
of Islam Black Hebrew Israelites Five-Percent Nation (Nation of Gods and 
Earths) Buddhist Nation Spiritual church movement Pan-Africanism · Nationalism 
Black Power · Capitalism Conservatism · Populism · Leftism Black Panther 
Party · Garveyism NAACP · SCLC · CORE · RCNL · SNCC NUL · Rights organizations 
ASALH · UNCF Thurgood Marshall College Fund NBCC · NPHC · The Links · NCNW 
Negro league baseball CIAA · SIAC · MEAC · SWAC · GCAC Afro-Asian American · 
Afro-Boricua · Atlantic Creole · Black Indians · Black Seminoles · Brass 
Ankles · Cherokee freedmen · Chestnut Ridge people · Choctaw freedmen · 
Garifuna · Gullah · Igbo · Louisiana Creole · Black Lumbee · Melungeon · 
Nigerian Americans · Redbones · We-Sorts English · Gullah Louisiana Creole 
French African American Vernacular English Liberia · Nova Scotia · France 
Sierra Leone African Americans African-American firsts First mayors · U.S. 
state firsts Landmark African-American legislation African-American-related 
topics List of African-American Republicans Topics related to Black and 
