Middletown is a city located in Middlesex County, Connecticut, along the 
Connecticut River, in the central part of the state, 16 miles (26 km) south 
of Hartford. In 1650, it was incorporated as a town under its original 
Indian name, Mattabeseck. It received its present name in 1653. Middletown 
was included within Hartford County upon its creation on May 10, 1666. 
In 1784, the central settlement was incorporated as a city distinct from 
the town. Both were included within newly formed Middlesex County in May 
1785. In 1923, the City of Middletown was consolidated with the Town, making 
the city limits of the city quite extensive. Originally a busy sailing 
port and then an industrial center, it is now largely residential with 
its downtown serving as a popular retail, dining, and entertainment district 
proximal to Wesleyan University. Middletown was the county seat of Middlesex 
County from its creation in 1785 until the elimination of county government 
in 1960. As of the 2010 census, the city had a total population of 47,648. 
Middletown, Connecticut is considered the southernmost city in the Hartford-Springfield 
Knowledge Corridor Metropolitan Region, which features a combined metro 
population of 1.9 million. The land on the western bank of the Connecticut 
River where Middletown now lies was home to the Mattabesett Native Americans 
(also spelled Mattabesec, Mattabeseck, and Mattabesek); the area they inhabited—now 
Middletown and the surrounding area—was named after them. At the time the 
first European settlers arrtived in the region, the Mattabesetts were a 
part of the group of tribes in the Connecticut Valley, under a single chief 
named Sowheag.[2][3] Plans for the colonial settlement of "Mattabesett" 
were drawn up by the General Court in 1646; the first Europeans arrived 
from nearby Connecticut colonies in 1650. The Name Middletown was chosen 
because the site was approximate halfway between Windsor and Saybrook on 
the Great River. Life was not easy among these early colonial Puritans; 
clearing the land and building homes, and tending farms in the rocky soil 
of New England was a labor-intensive ordeal. Law, too, was often harsh 
among the Puritans; offenses legally punishable by death in the Connecticut 
colonies included, "witchcraft, blasphemy, cursing or smiting of parents, 
and incorrigible stubbornness of children."[2][3] Pequot Mohegans, at that 
time traditional allies of the English colonists and enemies of the Mattabesett 
and other local tribes, arrived in the Middletown area in the latter half 
of the 17th century; conflict between them and local Native American tribes 
ensued. The Mattabesett and other tribes referred to the Mohegan as "destroyers 
of men." Sowheag hoped that the colonists would intervene. They did not. 
Smallpox, too, afflicted the Mattabesett, significantly lessening their 
ability to resist and their cohesion as a tribe. Records show that, over 
time, Sowheag was forced to sell off most of the Mattabesett property to 
the local colonists; by 1676 the Puritans owned all but 300 acres (1.2 km2) 
of the former Mattabesett territory.[3] Similar milieus of tragic interaction 
between Native Americans and colonists were common in 17th century New 
England.[4] During the 18th century, Middletown became the largest and 
most prosperous settlement in Connecticut. By the time of the American 
Revolution, Middletown was a thriving port with one-third of its citizens 
involved in merchant and maritime activities. Slavery was part of the early 
economy of Middletown; African slaves were brought to the town in 1661 
from Barbados; by 1756 Middletown had the third largest African slave population 
in the state of Connecticut—218 slaves to 5,446 whites.[3] Middletown merchant 
traders pushed for the clearance of the Saybrook Bar at the mouth of the 
Connecticut River, and later sought the creation of Middlesex County in 
1785. The name 'Middlesex' was chosen because the intention was to make 
Middletown the head of a long river port, much as London was at the head 
of its long river port in Middlesex County, England. The same persons also 
established the Middlesex Turnpike (now Route 154) to link all the settlements 
on the western side of the Connecticut, again with the intent of creating 
one long port. The port's decline began in the early 19th century with 
strained American-British relations and resulting trade restrictions, which 
led to the War of 1812. The port never recovered; however, the city distinguished 
itself in the war effort, as Middletown's Commodore Thomas Macdonough led 
American forces to the victory on Lake Champlain in 1814 which ended British 
hopes for an invasion of New York. During this period, Middletown became 
a major center for firearms manufacturing. Numerous gun manufacturers in 
the area supplied the majority of pistols to the United States government 
during the War of 1812. After that war, however, the center of this business 
passed to Springfield, Massachusetts, Hartford, Connecticut, and New Haven, 
Connecticut. (See also History of Connecticut industry) 1831 saw the establishment 
of Wesleyan University which was to become one of the United States' leading 
liberal arts institutions. The institution replaced an earlier institution 
on the same site, Partridge's American Literary, Scientific and Military 
Academy, which had moved to Norwich, Vermont and later became Norwich University. 
The two main buildings of the original campus were built by the people 
of Middletown with the intent of attracting an academic institution to 
the city. In 1841, Middletown established the state's first public high 
school, which at first enrolled all students from age nine through age 
sixteen who had previous attended district schools.[5] The mid-19th century 
also saw manufacturing replace trade as Middletown's economic mainstay; 
however, industrial growth was limited by railroad operators' decision 
to bypass Middletown when tracks were laid between Hartford and New Haven. 
There had been an ambitious plan to build a railroad suspension bridge 
in the White Rock, Middletown to Bodkin Rock, Portland vicinity, which 
was seen as an unpractical solution. Regardless, Middletonians played a 
role in the Civil War. For example, General Joseph K. Mansfield of Middletown 
was a Union General at Antietam, where he died in action in 1862. Ironically, 
another casualty at Antietam was Brig. Gen. George Taylor, who had been 
educated at a private military academy in Middletown. Also, the popular 
Civil War marching song "Marching Through Georgia" was written by Henry 
Clay Work, a Middletown resident. The city was also active in the abolitionism 
movement, and was a hub along the underground railway. In the latter half 
of the 19th century, manufacturing was the mainstay of the city's economy, 
especially finely made metal parts, such as marine hardware (Wilcox, Crittendon 
& Co.) and typewriters (Royal Typewriters). There were also several machine 
tool & die manufacturers in the city. Middletown was also the site of a 
major unit of Goodyear. In addition, there was the pioneer automobile manufacturer 
Eisenhuth Horseless Vehicle Company.[6] Middletown also briefly was the 
home of a major-league baseball team, the Middletown Mansfields of the 
National Association. In the late 19th and early 20th century, the once 
predominantly Anglo-Saxon city underwent a demographic transformation. 
First the Irish, and then large numbers of Italian immigrants arrived to 
work in Middletown's factories and farms, many coming from the town of 
Melilli, Sicily.[7] Polish and German arrivals followed, and by 1910 the 
population had swelled to nearly 21,000. Meanwhile, the number of African-Americans 
dwindled to a mere 53 persons, as employers chose to hire white immigrants. 
Later in the century, more African-Americans migrated to the area, followed 
by a more recent influx of Hispanic residents. The efforts of two Wesleyan 
professors also brought a small group of Cambodian refugees to Middletown 
in the early 1980s, who became the basis of a thriving Cambodian community, 
and a similar story is true for Middletown's small Tibetan community. Middletown 
is also the home of the first Hindu temple in Connecticut, and has attracted 
a Hindu population as well. This mix of people has also become evident 
in the range of restaurants which Middletown now has, and which is quickly 
becoming one of the most well-known aspects of the city. Both natural events 
and a continuing influx of people and businesses impacted the city in the 
first half of the 20th century. Middletown was hit by floods in 1927 and 
1936, and by The Great New England Hurricane in 1938. Despite these occurrences, 
the Arrigoni Bridge was completed over the Connecticut River in 1938, which 
connects Middletown to Portland and points east, replacing an earlier bridge. 
During the 1950s, as the popularity of the automobile increased, government 
officials approved the construction of a highway that effectively separated 
Middletown from the Connecticut River, its initial, natural raison d'être. 
Highway construction demolished historic neighborhoods, including many 
buildings from the 18th century, and led people to commute to newer housing 
outside older neighborhoods. The loss of industry and jobs contributed 
to a decline in Middletown, like many other northeastern U.S. cities at 
the time, went into a decline that did not reverse until the 1990s. During 
this time, many handsome (albeit decrepit) buildings were torn down in 
the name of 'urban renewal', and later turned into parking lots, or left 
empty. Crime increased. During the 1960s, Pratt and Whitney Aircraft opened 
a large plant in the Maromas section of Middletown. Concurrently, developers 
bought much of the city's remaining farms, including most of Oak Grove 
Dairy, to create suburban developments for local workers and commuters 
to surrounding cities. During the 1970s, Oddfellows Playhouse was established. 
The theater attracts hundreds of young people every year from around the 
state to perform in plays and other performances. The playhouse is one 
of the few youth theaters in the state of Connecticut. It is located on 
128 Washington Street, right around the corner from Middletown's famous 
Main Street. During the 1990s, a partnership between the city, the Middlesex 
Chamber of Commerce, and Wesleyan University invested heavily in Middletown's 
Main Street. Their actions helped the revival of downtown Middletown. Crime 
decreased, and new restaurants and shops opened. The Samuel Wadsworth Russell 
House on High Street, built in 1827, was declared a National Historic Landmark 
in 2001. The Alsop House, also located on High Street, and built in 1840, 
was designated a National Historic Landmark in 2009. Both buildings are 
part of the Wesleyan campus. Middletown sits on the west bank of the Connecticut 
River, in the south-central portion of the state. Running alongside the 
river, Route 9 bisects the city. According to the United States Census 
Bureau, the city has a total area of 42.3 square miles (109.6 km²), of 
which, 40.9 square miles (105.9 km²) of it is land and 1.4 square miles 
(3.7 km²) of it is water. The total area is 3.36% water. The west side 
of Middletown is flanked by the Metacomet Ridge—a mountainous trap rock 
ridgeline that stretches from Long Island Sound to nearly the Vermont border. 
Notable mountains of the Metacomet Ridge in Middletown include Higby Mountain 
and the north side of Lamentation Mountain. The 50-mile (80 km) Mattabesett 
Trail traverses the ridge. The Nature Conservancy manages the summit and 
ledges of Higby Mountain. As of the census[10] of 2000, there were 43,167 
people, 18,554 households, and 10,390 families residing in the city. The 
population density is 1,055.4 people per square mile (407.5/km²). There 
are 19,697 housing units at an average density of 481.6 per square mile 
(185.9/km²). The racial makeup of the city is 80.01% White, 12.26% Black 
or African American, 5.30% Hispanic or Latino, and 2.68% Asian. There are 
18,554 households, of which 25.7% have children under the age of 18 living 
with them, 41.3% are married couples living together, and 44.0% are non-families. 
The average household size is 2.23 and the average family size is 2.90. 
21.7% of residents are under the age of 18, 8.3% from 18 to 24, 35.1% from 
25 to 44, 21.5% from 45 to 64, and 13.4% are 65 years of age or older. 
The median age is 36 years. For every 100 females there are 93.3 males. 
For every 100 females age 18 and over, there are 90.2 males. The median 
income for a household in the city is $47,162, and the median income for 
a family is $60,845. Males have a median income of $45,790 versus $34,648 
for females. The per capita income for the city is $25,720. 7.5% of the 
population and 4.3% of families are below the poverty line. Out of the 
total people living in poverty, 7.5% are under the age of 18 and 6.6% are 
65 or older. The headquarters of the Connecticut Department of Emergency 
Services and Public Protection, previously the Connecticut Department of 
Public Safety,[12][13][14] is located in Middletown.[15] The United States 
Postal Service operates the Middletown Post Office.[16] Daniel T. Drew 
has been the mayor of Middletown since 2011. In recent decades, Middletown 
has focused on balancing the needs and comforts of its residents with the 
commercial development required to help fund services. These efforts date 
at least from 1931, when the city was one of the first in America to establish 
a planning board. Progress continued under the leadership of Democratic 
mayor, Domenique S. Thornton, who served a record eight years (four terms) 
as mayor. The city attracted a 12-screen movie theater and numerous restaurants 
and other businesses to the downtown area, the city provided free wi-fi 
service along Main Street and the historic Inn at Middletown a luxury four 
and half star boutique hotel transformed the former vacant National Guard 
Armory. On November 8, 2005, Republican Sebastian Giuliano won the mayor's 
office, replacing Thornton, whom he criticized for raising taxes and for 
the awarding of a contract for the construction of a new high school to 
Tomasso Brothers, Inc., a firm that had been the target of a federal corruption 
probe. During Giuliano's three terms in office, Middletown's Main Street 
became a hub for small businesses, and the city began investing heavily 
in the arts. Democrat Daniel T. Drew defeated Giuliano in 2011. Drew has 
pushed for increased development in the city's North End, an area that 
has been plagued by poverty and crime in recent decades. In November 2012, 
voters approved a $37 Million initiative to move Middletown's wastewater 
to the Mattabassett Sewer District treatment plant in nearby Cromwell. 
Previously, the city had operated its own sewage treatment plant on the 
banks of the Connecticut River. The city has made plans to tear down this 
older plant and develop the riverfront property on which it sits. Middletown 
continues to support manufacturing and small business. Middletown has remained 
an important government administrative center. From the creation of Middlesex 
County in 1798, until the elimination of county government in 1965, Middletown 
was the county seat. Middletown today retains Middlesex Superior Court, 
and the Judicial District remains that of the former county court. Other 
county functions were either centralized to the state or transferred to 
the towns. The former county building has been removed, but there are other 
state agency buildings elsewhere in the city, such as the Dept. of Social 
Services on Main Street Ext. Middletown's Probate Court district includes 
the towns of Cromwell, Portland, Middlefield and Haddam. The city is also 
the site of the controversial State Juvenile Training Center. Culturally 
and politically, Middletown is in the midst of an effort to revitalize 
its historically disadvantaged North End. Economic development projects 
recently completed in the North End include Wharfside Commons, a 96-unit 
mixed income apartment block, and the new Community Health Center (completed 
in 2012 at the corner of Main and Grand Streets). The Green Street Arts 
Center, founded by Wesleyan and a coalition of community groups in 2000, 
is a pioneering attempt to attract residents and businesses to the neighborhood 
by promoting arts education and outreach. For decades, the famous O'Rourke's 
Diner has done much to bring some stability to the North End. A fire on 
August 31, 2006 gutted much of the historic structure. The Middletown community 
held many fundraising events to raise money for the diner's rebuilding. 
Reconstruction began in September 2007, and O'Rourke's Diner re-opened 
in February 2008. Daniel Drew, Middletown's current Mayor, has supported 
citizen-oriented efforts to revitalize the North End, such as the local 
nonprofit NEAT (North End Action Team). In 2012, the City of Middletown 
and NEAT partnered to form the "I Heart the North End" initiative, which 
plans to raise public awareness of the economic and cultural opportunities 
available in the area. Russell Library, the public library of Middletown, 
continues to be a cultural, educational and entertainment center that offers 
a place for the community to meet. Currently, the library makes available 
to the general public books, newspapers, magazines, informational databases 
of full-text newspaper and magazine articles (offering news, business, 
medical, health, biographical, literary, etc., information), classes, computer 
training, workshops, concerts, and meeting spaces, including the Hubbard 
Room, a large meeting room that can accommodate 100 people. In addition 
to Wesleyan University, the city is home to Middlesex Community College, 
and two Roman Catholic high schools, Xavier High School (Connecticut) and 
Mercy High School (Connecticut), all of which attract students from surrounding 
communities. Middletown is the only location of a well-known youth theater 
group, Oddfellows Playhouse, which is located on Washington Street and 
pulls in children of all ages from all over the state to learn theater 
skills. Oddfellows also runs the Children's Circus of Middletown where 
children learn circus skills and put on a free show for close to a thousand 
people. Middletown is also host to the Kidcity Children's Museum located 
in a renovated and recently expanded former home of Judge Elmer, which 
was moved 400 feet (120 m) down Washington Street to its current location. 
Kidcity is a hands-on playspace where children ages 1 through 8 come with 
parents and other significant adults to learn through play. The Downtown 
Business District continues to revitalize the downtown area. Pratt and 
Whitney, Aetna, Middlesex Hospital, Connecticut Valley Hospital, Liberty 
Bank, and Wesleyan University are major employers. Located on the western 
border of the city, in an area known as Westlake, is an 84 house community 
known as The Farms. This architectural award winning community was developed 
in 1969 by George Achenbach, and was one of the first communities in Connecticut 
designed for cluster living, with open areas designated as common land. 
There are also many parks and nature trails including the Middletown Nature 
Gardens, Wadsworth Falls State Park and Smith Park, and 100 acres (0.40 km2) 
of open property at the Guida Farm Conservation Area for families to enjoy. 
Harbor Park is a 2.6-acre (11,000 m2) recreation area on the Connecticut 
River, featuring a boardwalk, restaurant/nightclub, fishing, seasonal boat 
excursions, and the Middletown High School and Wesleyan University crew 
boathouses. July 4 festivities, as well as the Head of the Connecticut 
Regatta event in October are conducted from Harbor Park. Middlesex Hospital[17] 
a major employer in Middletown and throughout Middlesex County, is spending 
$31 million to build a new emergency department. The new emergency room 
opened on March 24, 2008. Along with the new emergency room, a helipad 
will be added along with 70 new parking spaces for patients.[citation needed] 
At 11:17AM[18] on February 7, 2010, a large explosion occurred at a power 
plant under construction in Middletown.[19] Middletown has three regular 
news outlets. The Middletown Eye is an all-volunteer citizen newsblog covering 
municipal affairs, elections, the arts, and other events of interest in 
Middletown. It was founded on June 16, 2008 by Ed McKeon and Jen Alexander. 
The Middletown Press is a daily broadsheet which covers news in the Middletown 
area. The Hartford Courant is a daily broadsheet which includes a Middletown 
story in every issue. Three radio stations are licensed to Middletown: 
WMRD 1150 AM (variety), WESU 88.1 FM (Wesleyan University) and WIHS 104.9 
FM (religious). Middletown Area Transit provides public transportation 
services throughout Middletown; the New Britain Transportation Company 
provides connecting service to New Britain and the surrounding area; and 
Connecticut Transit provides local and express service to Hartford as well 
as express service to New Haven. The Estuary Transit District provides 
public transit service between Middletown and Old Saybrook, which, along 
with New Haven, provides connections to Amtrak intercity trains and Shore 
Line East commuter rail service. (B) denotes the person was born in Middletown. 
