Midland is a city in and the county seat of Midland County, Texas, United 
States,[4] on the Southern Plains of the state's western area. A small 
portion of the city extends into Martin County. At the 2010 census, the 
population of Midland was 111,147, and a 2015 estimate of 132,950, making 
it the twenty-fourth most populous city in the state of Texas. Due to the 
oil boom in Midland, certain officials have given population estimates 
above 155,000.[5] It is the principal city of the Midland, Texas Metropolitan 
Statistical Area, which includes all of Midland County. The population 
of which grew 4.6 percent, between July 1, 2011 and July 1, 2012, to 151,662, 
respectively, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.[6] The metropolitan 
area is also a component of the larger Midland−Odessa, Texas Combined Statistical 
Area, which had an estimated population of 295,987 on July 1, 2012.[1] 
People in Midland are called Midlanders. Midland was originally founded 
as the midway point between Fort Worth and El Paso on the Texas and Pacific 
Railroad in 1881. It has received national recognition as being the hometown 
of former First Lady Laura Bush, and the onetime home of former Presidents 
George H. W. Bush and George W. Bush, and former First Lady Barbara Bush. 
Midland was originally established in June 1881 as Midway Station, on the 
Texas and Pacific Railway. It earned its name because of its central location 
between Fort Worth and El Paso, but because there were already other towns 
in Texas by the name of Midway, the city changed its name to Midland in 
January 1884 when it was granted its first Post Office. Midland became 
the county seat of Midland county in March 1885 when that county was first 
organized and separated from Tom Green County. By 1890 it had become one 
of the most important cattle shipping centers in the state. The city was 
first incorporated in 1906, and by 1910 the city established its first 
fire department along with a new water system.[7] Midland was changed significantly 
by the discovery of oil in the Permian Basin in 1923 when the Santa Rita 
No. 1 well began producing in Reagan County, followed shortly by the Yates 
Oil Field in Iraan, Texas. Soon, Midland was transformed into the administrative 
center of the West Texas oil fields. During the Second World War Midland 
was the largest bombardier training base in the country. A second boom 
period began after the Second World War, with the discovery and development 
of the Spraberry Trend, still ranked as the third-largest oil field in 
the United States by total reserves.[8] Yet another boom period occurred 
during the 1970s, with the high oil prices associated with the oil and 
energy crises of that decade. Today, the Permian Basin produces one fifth 
of the nation's total petroleum and natural gas output. Midland's economy 
still relies heavily on petroleum; however, the city has also diversified 
to become a regional telecommunications and distribution center. By August 
2006, a busy period of crude oil production had caused a significant workforce 
deficit. According to the Midland Chamber of Commerce, at that time there 
were almost 2,000 more jobs available in the Permian Basin than there were 
workers to fill them. John Howard Griffin wrote a history of Midland in 
1959, Land of the High Sky. In 1967 the U.S. Supreme Court heard the case 
of Avery v. Midland County. Midland mayor Hank Avery had sued Midland County 
challenging the electoral-districting scheme in effect for elections to 
the County Commissioner's Court. The county districts geographically quartered 
the county, but the city of Midland, in the northwestern quarter, accounted 
for 97% of the county's population. A judge, elected on an at-large basis, 
provided a fifth vote, but the result was that the three rural commissioners, 
representing only three percent of the county's population, held a majority 
of the votes. The majority of the U.S. Supreme Court held that the districting 
inequality violated the Fourteenth Amendment's Equal Protection clause. 
The dissenting minority held that this example of the Warren Court's policy 
of incorporation at the local-government level exceeded the Court's constitutional 
authority. Midland is located at 32°0′N 102°6′W﻿ / ﻿32.000°N 102.100°W﻿ 
/ 32.000; -102.100 (32.005, −102.099),[9] in the Permian Basin in the plains 
of West Texas. According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has 
a total area of 71.5 square miles (185.2 km²), of which 71.3 square miles 
(184.7 km²) is land and 0.2 square mile (0.5 km²) (0.28%) is water. Midland 
features a semi-arid climate (Köppen BSh or BSk) with long, hot summers 
and short, moderate winters. The city is occasionally subject to cold waves 
during the winter, but it rarely sees extended periods of below-freezing 
cold. Midland receives approximately 14.6 inches (370 mm) of precipitation 
per year, much of which falls in the summer. Highs exceed 90 °F (32 °C) 
on 101 days per year, and 100 °F (38 °C) on 16 days.[10] At the 2010 census,[2] 
111,149 people, 41,268 households, and 32,607 families resided in Midland. 
The population density was 1,558.9 people per square mile (550.6/km²). 
There were 47,562 housing units at an average density of 667.1 per square 
mile (231.0/km²). The racial makeup of the city was 75.51% White, 8.37% 
African American, 0.63% Native American, 1.01% Asian, 0.03% Pacific Islander, 
12.49% from other races, and 1.96% from two or more races. Hispanics or 
Latinos of any race were 28.99% of the population. Of the 41,268 households, 
37.9% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 55.4% were opposite-sex 
married couples living together, 11.9% had a female householder with no 
husband present, and 29.3% were made up of same-sex relationships, non-family 
habitations, or other habitation arrangements . About 25.8% of all households 
were made up of individuals, and 9.2% had someone living alone who was 
65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.62 and the average 
family size was 3.19. In the city, the population was distributed as 29.9% 
under the age of 18, 9.0% from 18 to 24, 28.2% from 25 to 44, 20.6% from 
45 to 64, and 12.3% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 
34 years. For every 100 females, there were 92.2 males. For every 100 females 
age 18 and over, there were 87.7 males. In 2000, the median income for 
a household in the city was $39,320, and for a family was $48,290. Males 
had a median income of $37,566 versus $24,794 for females. The per capita 
income for the city in 2007 was $52,294.[14] In 2000, about 10.1% of families 
and 12.9% of the population were below the poverty line, including 16.4% 
of those under age 18 and 8.0% of those age 65 or over. In 2014, Forbes 
magazine ranked Midland as the second fastest-growing small city in the 
United States.[15] As of 2014, Midland has the lowest unemployment rate 
in the United States at 2.3%.[16] According to the city's 2013 Comprehensive 
Annual Financial Report,[17] the top ten employers in the city are: Nicknamed 
"The Tall City," Midland has long been known for its downtown skyline. 
Most of downtown Midland's major office buildings were built during a time 
of major Permian Basin oil and gas discoveries. The surge in energy prices 
in the mid-1980s set about a building boom for downtown Midland. For many 
years, the 22-story Wilco Building in downtown Midland was the tallest 
building between Fort Worth and Phoenix. Today, the tallest one is the 
24-story Bank of America Building which stands at a height of 332 feet 
(101 m). Four buildings over 500 feet (150 m) tall were planned in the 
1980s, including one designed by world famous architect I.M. Pei.[18] The 
great Oil Bust of the mid-1980s killed any plans for future skyscrapers. 
A private development group was planning to build Energy Tower at City 
Center, which was proposed to stand at 870 feet tall with 59 floors (6 
floors underground and 53 above). If it had been built, it would have been 
Texas' 6th tallest building.[19] Another glimpse of downtown Midland Summit 
Building(center) with the Wilco Building in the background The Petroleum 
Building with Centennial Tower to the right City Hall Kinder Morgan Building 
Doubletree Hotel in downtown Midland Yucca Theater at the Petroleum Building 
First Presbyterian Church in Midland Another glimpse of downtown from Ohio 
Ave. Midland College is home to the McCormick Gallery, located inside the 
Allison Fine Arts Building, on the college's main campus. Throughout the 
year, changing exhibits at the McCormick feature works of MC students and 
faculty, visiting artists, and juried exhibits. The Arts Council of Midland[20] 
serves as the promotional and public relations vehicle to promote the arts 
and stimulate community participation and support. The McCormick is also 
home to the Studio 3600 Series,[21] established in 2006 to "spotlight selected 
art students and provide them the opportunity to exhibit key works that 
identify the style they have crafted over a period of time." The Midland-Odessa 
Symphony and Chorale (MOSC) has performed in the Permian Basin for over 
45 years, and is the region's largest orchestral organization, presenting 
both Pops and Masterworks concerts throughout the year. Composed of professional 
musicians from the area as well as Lubbock, San Angelo and other surrounding 
cities, the MOSC also is home to three resident chamber ensembles, the 
Lone Star Brass, Permian Basin String Quartet and West Texas Winds. These 
ensembles are made up of principal musicians in the orchestra, who come 
to the area from across the United States. The Chateau Club on Wall Street 
hosted some musical greats in the early seventies. Managed by D.M. Williams, 
Club Chateau's house band consisted of a line up of some of the nation's 
best known R&B artists from such well known singing groups as The Coasters, 
The Drifters, and The Shirelles. The band was led by blues great Johnny 
Heartsman. Heartsman was a master of the Hammond B3 organ, guitar, and 
flute. Local talent consisted of drummer Jeff Colvin and guitarist Larry 
Grubb. Heartsman hosted a Sunday afternoon jam session. It was one Sunday 
that young West Texan, Jay Boy Adams wandered in to the Sunday afternoon 
jam. Williams and Heartsman hired him on the spot. Adams was not yet twenty 
one. He remained as the regular guitar player and singer for the next two 
years. Adams will regularly credit his time with The Heartsman Trio as 
his learning ground and credit Heartsman as a major influence in his musical 
development. The Midland Community Theatre (MCT) has been entertaining 
the Permian Basin since 1946 with musicals, comedies, dramas, mysteries, 
children's theatre and melodramas. MCT produces 15 shows each year in three 
performance spaces - Davis Theatre I (485 seats) and Mabee Theatre II (155 
seats), located in the Cole Theatre, and the annual fundraiser Summer Mummers 
in the historic Yucca Theatre. MCT has an extensive education program, 
including the Pickwick Players (teen performance troupe), Theatre School 
programs and OutReach classes. MCT operates with a professional staff of 
20 and depends upon the hard work and dedication of hundreds of volunteers 
in the Permian Basin to produce shows throughout the year. MCT is a member 
of the American Association of Community Theatre, and hosted the 2006 AACT 
International Theatrefest. Twice each year, the Phyllis and Bob Cowan Performing 
Arts Series at Midland College presents free cultural and artistic performances 
of "international interest and scope to stimulate and inspire the Midland 
arts community,"[22] and entertain the community at-large. The series was 
endowed in 1999, and has since brought a diverse selection of entertainers 
to Midland, including Andre Watts, the Eroica Trio, the Moscow Boys Choir, 
the Flying Karamazov Brothers, the Preservation Hall Jazz Band, 3 Mo' Divas, 
Ballet Folklorico de Mexico de Amalia Hernandez and the Golden Dragon Acrobats 
of China. Sitting on the southern edge of the Llano Estacado and located 
near the center of the Permian Basin oil fields, Midland's economy has 
long been focused on petroleum exploration and extraction. Providing more 
information about this industry is the Permian Basin Petroleum Museum, 
located on the outskirts of town near Interstate 20. The museum houses 
numerous displays on the history, science, and technology of oil and gas 
development. The Permian Basin Petroleum Museum houses a collection of 
race cars designed by Jim Hall, a long time Midland resident who pioneered 
the use of aerodynamic downforce in the design of Formula One cars. Midland 
is also home to The Museum of the Southwest. The museum features a collection 
of paintings by various members of the Taos Society of Artists and Karl 
Bodmer as well as engravings by John J. and John W. Audubon. Located within 
the same museum complex are the separate Children's Museum and the Marian 
W. Blakemore Planetarium. The Museum of the Southwest is housed in the 
Turner Mansion, the historic 1934 home of Fred and Juliette Turner. On 
display at the Midland County Historical Museum are reproductions of the 
"Midland Man," the skeleton of a Clovis female found near the city in 1953.[23] 
Analysis of the remains by Dr. Curtis R. McKinney using uranium-thorium 
analysis showed that the bones are 11,600 ± 800 years old. Presenting his 
findings at the annual meeting of the Geological Society of America in 
1992, Dr. McKinney said, "[T]he Midland Woman was related to the earliest 
ancestors of every Indian who lives today, and she is very likely the only 
representative of those who created the Clovis cultures." Midland is home 
to the Midland RockHounds, a Texas League minor league baseball team. It 
is the Double-A affiliate of the Oakland Athletics. The Rockhounds have 
played their home games in Security Bank Ballpark since 2002. West Texas 
United Sockers is an American soccer team founded in 2008. The team is 
a member of the United Soccer Leagues Premier Development League (PDL), 
the fourth tier of the American Soccer Pyramid, in the Mid South Division 
of the Southern Conference. The team plays its home games at the Grande 
Communications Stadium. Midland is home to the West Texas Drillers (Adult 
Tackle Football) of the Minor Professional Football League. They were established 
in 2009. They play their home games at Grande Communications Stadium. Midland 
College is a member of the Western Junior College Athletic Conference, 
and fields teams in baseball, men's basketball, women's basketball, men's 
golf, softball and volleyball. Midland College has won 20 national championships 
in sports since 1975, as well as produced 192 All-Americans. Plans have 
been made to develop a 35 court tennis facility named the Bush Tennis Center. 
Midland is also home to the Midland Mad Dog Rugby Club, which competes 
in the Texas Rugby Union as a division III team. Twice each year, the Davidson 
Distinguished Lectures Series at Midland College presents free public lectures 
by "nationally-known speakers whose academic accomplishments, civic leadership, 
and/or public achievements interest, enrich, and enlighten Midland students 
and citizens."[24] The series was endowed in 1996, and has since brought 
a diverse selection of speakers to Midland, including Ken Burns, Richard 
Leakey, Bill Moyers, Mark Russell, Sandra Day O'Connor, Richard Rodriguez, 
Shelby Foote, Anna Deavere Smith, Bill Nye, John Updike and Neil deGrasse 
Tyson. According to the city's most recent Comprehensive Annual Financial 
Report, the city's various funds had $57.3 million in revenues, $53.0 million 
in expenditures, $363.4 million in total assets, $133.9 million in total 
liabilities, and $75.0 million in cash and investments.[25] The structure 
of the management and coordination of city services is:[26] On the federal 
level, Midland residents are represented in the US Senate by John Cornyn 
and Ted Cruz, and in the US House of Representatives by Mike Conaway. Midland 
residents are represented in the Texas Senate by Republican Kel Seliger, 
District 31. Midland is represented in the Texas House of Representatives 
by Republican Tom Craddick, the former Speaker from District 82. The Texas 
Department of Criminal Justice operates the headquarters of Parole Division 
Region V in Midland; the Midland District Parole Office is in the Region 
V headquarters.[27] The United States Postal Service operates the Midland 
Main Post Office on the grounds of Midland International Air and Space 
Port.[28] The other four post offices are Claydesta,[29] Downtown Midland,[30] 
Graves,[31] and Village.[32] Midland is the home of Midland College (MC), 
which offers a variety of over 50 programs of study for associate degrees 
and certificates to more than 6,000 students who enroll each semester. 
MC offers programs in health sciences, information technology, and aviation, 
including a professional pilot training program. MC is one of only three 
community colleges in Texas approved to offer a bachelor's degree in applied 
technology. Dr. Steve Thomas is MC's current president. Midland is also 
the home for the physician assistant program offered by the Texas Tech 
University Health Sciences Center Permian Basin Campus located on the campus 
of Midland College. The entry-level graduate program awards a master of 
physician assistant studies following 27 months of intensive academic and 
clinical training. Midland is the home to three local public high schools: 
Midland High School, Robert E. Lee High School and Early College High School 
(ECHS) at Midland College, all three of which are part of the Midland Independent 
School District. Another school district is located just outside of Midland, 
Greenwood Independent School District, containing Greenwood High and a 
middle and elementary school. ECHS welcomed its first freshman class on 
August 24, 2009. The goal for ECHS is to award students their associate 
degrees from Midland College by the time they receive their high school 
diplomas.[33] Also, there are many private schools in Midland, including 
Hillcrest School, Hillander, Midland Classical Academy, Midland Christian 
School, Midland Montessori, St. Ann's School, and Trinity School of Midland, 
among others. Midland is also home to three charter schools: Richard Milburn 
Academy, Premier High School, and Midland Academy Charter School. Midland 
is served by the Midland Reporter-Telegram. Midland is served by 9 local 
television stations: KMID, an ABC affiliate; KWES-TV, an NBC affiliate; 
KOSA, a CBS affiliate and a MyNetwork TV affiliate on their digital cable 
TV station; KPEJ-TV, a Fox affiliate; KPBT, a PBS affiliate; KWWT, The 
CW Television Network affiliate; KUPB, a Univision affiliate; and KTLE-LP, 
a Telemundo affiliate. It also has one local religious television station: 
KMLM-DT, a God's Learning Channel affiliate, which is a worldwide institution 
offering pro-Israel programming. Many major motion pictures have been filmed 
in and around Midland, including Hangar 18, Waltz Across Texas, Fandango, 
Blood Simple, Hard Country, Friday Night Lights, The Rookie, The Three 
Burials of Melquiades Estrada, Everybody's Baby: The Rescue of Jessica 
McClure (which featured, as extras, many participants in the actual rescue 
and its coverage), and others. In the Heroes television series, the Midland-Odessa 
area is a focal point for many of the first season's episodes, serving 
as the home for the Bennet family as well as the location of a recurring 
restaurant, the Burnt Toast Diner. Midland was the site of the 2012 Midland 
train crash, in which a train collided with a parade float carrying wounded 
military veterans, killing four. Midland also has city-wide public bus 
services provided for the Midland-Odessa Urban Transit District by Midland-Odessa 
Transit Management, otherwise known as E-Z Rider. Midland has four sister 
