Michael Wilson Ivie (born August 8, 1952),[1] is an American former professional 
baseball player. He played as a first baseman in Major League Baseball 
for the San Diego Padres, San Francisco Giants, Houston Astros, and Detroit 
Tigers during his career from 1971 to 1983. In addition to playing first 
base, Ivie put in considerable time as a third baseman, a left fielder 
and was a designated hitter. Ivie is one of only five Major League Baseball 
players to hit two pinch-hit grand slams in the same season. The others 
are Davey Johnson of the Philadelphia Phillies, Darryl Strawberry of the 
New York Yankees, Ben Broussard of the Cleveland Indians, and Brooks Conrad 
of the Atlanta Braves.[2] Mike Ivie was drafted first overall in the 1970 
Major League Baseball Draft as a catcher by the San Diego Padres. He began 
his career in the Padres' minor league system, where he once hit 21 homers 
in 21 games. He made his major league debut as an 18-year-old in 1971. 
Even though he was a catcher in the minor leagues, he occasionally started 
as a third baseman, but was then moved to first base and made the Padres 
in 1974. During the 1978 off season, he was traded from the Padres to the 
San Francisco Giants in exchange for Derrel Thomas. During the 1978 season, 
which was to become one of the most memorable National League West races 
of all time, Ivie played a significant role in helping the Giants win and 
stay in contention for first place throughout most of the season. On May 
28, 1978 during the 6th inning of a game between the Giants and Los Angeles 
Dodgers, whose rivalry was in full force that season, Ivie was called upon 
to pinch hit. After the count went to 0-2, Ivie hit the next pitch from 
Dodger ace Don Sutton into the left field bleachers for a grand slam. As 
the ball cleared the left field fence, Darrell Evans, Jack Clark and Larry 
Herndon all scored while the largest paid crowd at Candlestick Park erupted. 
Ivie was mobbed at home plate by the Giants. The Dodgers tied it in the 
7th, but the Giants won the game by a score of 6-5. He went on to hit a 
total of 4 pinch hit home runs that year. After the 1978 season, Ivie was 
the talk of a trade rumor involving the Minnesota Twins to bring Rod Carew 
to the Giants. The trade fell through and Carew ended up with the then 
California Angels. Ivie went on to hit a career high 27 home runs and 89 
RBI for the Giants in 1979. Going into the 1980 season, Ivie was considered 
the Giants' successor at first base to Willie McCovey upon his retirement, 
but after an off-season accident with a hunting knife in which he sliced 
part of his fifth finger from his hand, he was unable to perform and became 
a bench player. He walked away during that season, but a phone call from 
McCovey convinced him to return and he played out the 1980 season, hitting 
four home runs. In 1981, when Frank Robinson was given the job as Giants' 
manager after Dave Bristol was fired after the 1980 season, Ivie's career 
took a turn. Even though he was reported to have a good attitude during 
spring training and worked hard, he lost the starting first base job to 
free agent Enos Cabell, acquired during the off season, and was then traded 
to the Houston Astros during the season. He asked for his release, which 
was granted. He then called on Sparky Anderson, manager of the Detroit 
Tigers, and he was signed to play first base and designated hitter. He 
was their starting first baseman or DH during the 1982 season and hit 14 
home runs. During the 1983 season, Ivie was released by the Tigers and 
