As player As manager Michael Scott Matheny (born September 22, 1970) is 
an American former professional baseball catcher and the current manager 
of the St. Louis Cardinals of Major League Baseball (MLB), a position he 
has held since 2012.[1][2] A product of the University of Michigan, Matheny 
was selected by the Milwaukee Brewers in the eighth round of the 1991 MLB 
Draft. He made his MLB debut for the Brewers in 1994 and retired in 2006 
with the San Francisco Giants. He also played for the Toronto Blue Jays 
and Cardinals during his thirteen-year catching career. Though not a prodigious 
hitter, Matheny was one of the most accomplished defensive catchers of 
his era, winning four Rawlings Gold Glove Awards.[3][4] Further, he established 
major league records among catchers for consecutive games played without 
committing an error (252), and consecutive chances fielded without an error 
(1,565). Matheny is one of only three Major League catchers with an errorless 
season of at least 100 games,[5] and he set a Giants single-season team 
record in 2005 for catcher's fielding percentage at .999. He retired from 
playing due to persisting concussion symptoms, and has since become an 
advocate for its prevention and for improved catcher safety. After his 
playing career, Matheny coached Little League Baseball. The Cardinals hired 
him to manage following the 2011 season in spite of having no previous 
professional experience. In 2015, he became the first manager in MLB history 
to lead his team to the playoffs in each of his first four seasons, and, 
in 2014, just the fifth to a League Championship Series appearance in each 
of his first three. His furthest title claim occurred in 2013, when the 
Cardinals won the National League pennant, only to fall to the Boston Red 
Sox in the World Series. Matheny grew up in Reynoldsburg, Ohio, just minutes 
from the city of Columbus. He graduated from Reynoldsburg High School, 
where he captained the baseball and football teams.[2] Receiving little 
attention from nearby Ohio State University, University of Michigan coach 
Bud Middaugh offered him a scholarship to attend Michigan.[6] Because of 
his defensive and throwing skills, Matheny drew the notice of major league 
scouts while in high school. The Toronto Blue Jays drafted him in the 31st 
round of the 1988 Major League Baseball Draft but waited two days until 
after the draft ended to inform Matheny they had chosen him. At first, 
they refused to disclose to him in which round they had selected him.[6] 
Two days before he was due to attend his first class, Blue Jays general 
manager Pat Gillick appeared at Matheny's home to convince him to sign. 
Gillick was ready to offer a deal normally reserved for second-round picks. 
During that time, teams held the right to negotiate with their draft picks 
until the moment they entered their first classroom of the following academic 
year. The Blue Jays constantly called Matheny until the morning of his 
first class, hoping he would sign.[6] Confounded by the Blue Jays' overtures, 
Matheny was convinced that he would not be a very good professional player 
at that point, so he chose to attend college instead. Prior to proceeding 
to his first class, he called the Blue Jays from his dormitory room to 
inform them that he decided to attend the University of Michigan. At Michigan, 
Matheny co-captained the Wolverines baseball team.[7][8] He was a member 
of the 1989 Connie Mack championship team.[2] The Milwaukee Brewers selected 
Matheny in the eighth round of the 1991 Major League Baseball Draft and 
he spent three years climbing the minor league system.[9][10] He made his 
major league debut with the Brewers on April 7, 1994 at 23; he became their 
starting catcher early in the next season.[1][11] During a game against 
the Pittsburgh Pirates on May 26, 1998, Matheny was batting in the bottom 
of the ninth when he took a pitch from Rich Loiselle off his face. Remaining 
upright, Matheny placed his hand on his hip as Pirates catcher Jason Kendall 
and home plate umpire Jerry Crawford motioned wildly for the Brewers trainers. 
He spat out a mouthful of blood as he walked off the field.[12] At the 
end of that season, he became eligible for salary arbitration and the Brewers 
granted him free agency a few months later.[13] Ten years after they drafted 
him, the Toronto Blue Jays signed on December 23, 1998, for the 1999 season. 
He served as Darrin Fletcher's understudy. Gillick had resigned in 1994, 
however. Toronto released him after the season, and he signed with the 
St. Louis Cardinals on December 15, 1999. Matheny barely made the Cardinals 
roster after the spring training session, but went on to earn the starting 
catcher's role in the 2000 season.[14] He posted a career-high .261 batting 
average and provided exceptional defense for the Cardinals, with a .993 
fielding percentage and throwing out 53% of would-be base stealers, well 
above the league average of 32%.[15] Matheny helped the Cardinals improve 
from their fourth-place finish in 1999 to capturing the National League 
Central Division title, and claimed his first Gold Glove award in the process.[16] 
After the season, the Cardinals signed him to a three-year, $9-million 
contract.[14] After teammate Darryl Kile's sudden death in the summer of 
2002, Matheny showed that he was "an inspirational leader," helping the 
team to cope and make it to the National League Championship Series. After 
the 2003 season, the St. Louis and Houston chapters of the BBWAA voted 
for Matheny as the inaugural winner of an award established in Kile's honor.[2] 
Bolstering his growing reputation as a top defensive catcher, Matheny again 
won Gold Gloves with the Cardinals in 2003 and 2004. His defensive contributions 
helped St. Louis reach the postseason in four of his five years with the 
team, including claiming the National League pennant in 2004.[3][17] Between 
August 1, 2002 and August 4, 2004, Matheny played in 252 games without 
committing an error, establishing a new Major League record for catchers.[5] 
Matheny set another Major League record for catchers in 2004 by fielding 
1,565 consecutive chances without an error.[5] During his playing days 
in a Cardinal uniform, Matheny caught 611 games, accumulating 4,938.1 innings 
and committing just 14 errors.[2] His .997 fielding percentage leads all 
catchers who have caught at least 2,000 innings for St. Louis.[18] He became 
a free agent after the 2004 World Series, primarily due to the emergence 
of rookie catcher Yadier Molina, with whom he would eventually be reunited. 
Matheny signed a three-year contract with the San Francisco Giants on December 
13, 2004. The next season, he displayed a rare power surge, amassing career-highs 
with 13 home runs, 34 doubles, a .406 slugging percentage and 59 runs batted 
in (RBIs). Matheny continued his defensive excellence, compiling a team-record 
.999 fielding percentage and leading National League catchers with 13 double 
plays, 77 assists and 39 would-be base-stealers caught stealing, earning 
his fourth Gold Glove.[1][2] He also took home the Willie Mac Award that 
year, accorded annually to a San Francisco Giant for spirit and leadership.[19] 
Matheny landed on the disabled list on May 31, 2006 after a series of foul 
balls caromed off his mask, resulting in a serious concussion.[20] In July, 
the Giants announced that he would not return for the remainder of the 
season and that his career status was in doubt. MLB.com's Giants beat writer, 
Rich Draper, articulated that Matheny's career was likely over due to continued 
struggles with post-concussion syndrome.[21] On February 1, 2007, Matheny 
announced his retirement from Major League Baseball due to on-going symptoms 
of post-concussion syndrome.[5] Shortly thereafter, Matheny became a baseball 
mentor for Protégé Sports and filming some catching tips and drills for 
the Scottsdale-based company. In his thirteen-year major league career, 
Matheny played in 1,305 games, accumulating 925 hits in 3,877 at bats for 
a .239 career batting average along with 67 home runs, 443 RBIs and an 
on-base percentage of .293.[1] He led National League catchers twice in 
fielding percentage and ended his career with a .994 average, which was 
4 points above the league average during his playing career.[1] His .994 
career fielding percentage ranks tenth all-time among Major League catchers.[22] 
Matheny also twice led National League catchers in baserunners caught stealing.[1] 
On January 24, 2008, Matheny returned to the St. Louis Cardinals organization 
as a special adviser for the first two weeks of spring training. They announced 
him as their new manager on November 14, 2011, following Tony La Russa's 
retirement, making him the youngest manager in the major leagues.[23] The 
move was seen as unexpected as Matheny had no prior managing or coaching 
experience in professional baseball besides that as a minor league instructor. 
Moreover, he was taking over a team that had just won the World Series 
and for another manager who was one of the top three achievers in wins 
for the role in major league history. Matheny's other prior coaching experience 
included Little League Baseball and other interviewees included Terry Francona, 
Ryne Sandberg, José Oquendo, Chris Maloney and Joe McEwing, all of whom 
already had managerial or coaching experience in the major leagues.[24] 
In spite of the lack of substantial achievement as demonstrated by his 
competitors, Matheny guided the Cardinals to a winning record and a playoff 
and NLCS appearance in each of his first three seasons, becoming fifth 
manager in major league history to accomplish this.[25] On April 4, 2012, 
Matheny won in his managerial debut against the Miami Marlins in the first 
game of their new ballpark.[26] Twenty days later, Matheny was ejected 
from a game for the first time for arguing a pivotal safe/out call by umpire 
Bill Welke in the bottom of the 10th inning of a 3-2 loss to the Chicago 
Cubs.[27] In another contest against the Marlins later that season, a bungled 
double switch left Matheny with only pitchers available on the bench to 
pinch hit in extra innings. Incidentally, that pitcher catalyzed a St. 
Louis victory in his role as a batter. With the score tied 6–6 in the bottom 
of the ninth inning at Marlins Park on June 25, Matheny presented the action 
to home plate umpire Bob Davidson to place relief pitcher Víctor Marte 
in the game for fellow pitcher Sam Freeman. Simultaneously, infielder Tyler 
Greene substituted for third baseman David Freese, originally batting in 
the seventh spot in the lineup. Matheny assigned Greene to bat ninth – 
the order in the lineup which Freeman previously occupied – and play second 
base. The second baseman already in the game, Daniel Descalso, shifted 
to third base. Matheny showed Davidson these actions on the lineup card, 
and, with Davidson looking on, wrote "5" (used to designate the position 
of the third baseman) next to Descalso's name. When Davidson conveyed the 
changes to Marlins manager Ozzie Guillén, a communication error transpired. 
After Marte faced one batter, Guillén vaulted from the Marlins dugout to 
argue that Marte and first baseman Allen Craig, the number five hitter, 
"couldn't be on the field at the same time." Despite his effort to oppose 
Guillén's protest, Davidson ruled for Matheny to remove Craig. He substituted 
Tony Cruz at first base, erasing two of the Cardinals' top hitters, Craig 
and Freese, from the game.[28] In the top of the tenth, Marte was due in 
Craig's fifth spot. With no regular batters remaining, Matheny chose a 
former college outfielder to bat for Marte, rookie pitcher Joe Kelly. The 
Cardinals had gained the lead, 7–6, at this point and Kelly batted with 
the bases loaded and two outs. He beat a ground ball for an infield hit 
that scored a run – his first major league hit and RBI – and put the Cardinals 
up 8–6. This run proved to be crucial insurance as Miami's Omar Infante 
scored on a John Buck single in the bottom of the tenth. Nevertheless, 
Jason Motte, Kelly's replacement, closed it out for the 8–7 win.[29][30][31] 
Matheny's first season as Cardinals manager was an overall success, finishing 
the regular season with an 88–74 record en route to capturing the National 
League wild-card game and qualifying for the postseason. The Giants defeated 
the Cardinals in the NLCS.[32] On February 14, 2013, the Cardinals picked 
up Matheny's 2014 option.[33] He surpassed the success of his first season 
by guiding the club in 2013 a 97–65 record, the best record in the National 
League and his first National League Central division title. The Cardinals 
defeated the Pittsburgh Pirates 3–2 in the NLDS and the Los Angeles Dodgers 
4–2 in the NLCS for his first NL pennant. The Boston Red Sox defeated the 
Cardinals in the World Series in six games, as was the case in 2004. With 
Matheny as the regular catcher, the Red Sox defeated the Cardinals in the 
World Series after a regular season with the best record in the NL. However, 
in 2013, St. Louis lost four key players to season-ending injuries – including 
Chris Carpenter, Rafael Furcal, Jaime García and Jason Motte – rookies 
comprised half of the World Series pitching staff.[34] On November 20, 
2013, the Cardinals extended his contract for three more years through 
2017.[35] Making his first All-Star appearance as a major leaguer, Matheny 
was the National League manager in the 2014 game, which the American League 
won, 5–3.[36] The Cardinals won the NL Central division title in 2014, 
their second consecutive title, and third consecutive playoff appearance 
with Matheny as manager.[25] More trends continued as they eliminated the 
Dodgers from the playoffs for the second consecutive season, this time 
in the NLDS. As was the ending in 2012, the Giants eliminated the Cardinals 
in the NLCS.[37] Tragedy struck to open the 2014–15 off-season when rookie 
right fielder Oscar Taveras was killed in a car accident in the Dominican 
Republic on October 26, 2014. Just 10 days after the completion of the 
NLCS,[38][39] news outlets reported the incident moments before the first 
pitch of Game 5 of the World Series.[40] It was the second death of an 
active Cardinals player during Mantheny's Cardinals career, following Kile's 
death in 2002. Reports confirmed alcohol intoxication on Taveras' part.[41] 
General manager John Mozeliak lamented the circumstances, amplifying that 
the team would take a greater role in instructing young players "to avoid 
reckless actions."[42] After defeating the Chicago Cubs 10–9 on May 4, 
2015, the Cardinals sported an MLB-best 19–6 record, which was the best 
25-game start for the club since at least 1900.[43] Having won seven in 
a row, it established a career high for Matheny.[44] The Cardinals defeated 
the Cubs again the next game, 7–4, extending the win streak to eight.[45] 
A 3–1 victory over the Detroit Tigers on May 17, 2015, securing the 300th 
win of his managerial career.[46] In August 2015, Baseball America published 
that fellow managers and coaches in the National League rated Matheny the 
second-best manager in the league.[47] On September 19, the Cardinals became 
the first team in the majors to advance to the playoffs. Matheny became 
the first manager in MLB history to guide his club to the postseason in 
each of his first four full seasons.[48][49] With an 11–1 win over the 
Pittsburgh Pirates on September 30, the Cardinals won 100 games for the 
first time in Matheny's managerial career, while clinching their third 
consecutive NL Central division title. The Pirates, who had kept close 
for most of the season, had already won 96 games, while clinching a wild-card 
berth.[50][51] However, the Cubs, the second wild card entrant, defeated 
the Cardinals in the NLDS in four games.[52] Matheny finished second in 
the NL Manager of the Year Award voting,[53] and a co-winner of the J. 
G. Taylor Spink St. Louis Baseball Man of the Year Award.[54] On May 27, 
2016, Matheny gained his 400th career win in a 6–2 defeat of the Washington 
Nationals. In 2016 Matheny's contract was extended to 2022.[55] Because 
the Cardinals had hired Matheny as manager following the 2011 season, questions 
surfaced as to whether this personnel move had been a savvy one, particularly 
because he succeeded a World Series-winning manager of 33 years in La Russa. 
Matheny had never been a full-time coach or manager in any capacity in 
professional baseball. However, he was hired because of his ties to the 
organization during his playing days, as well as for intangible qualities 
such as his presence as a leader. He became known as one who lends support 
rather than lists his players' flaws, especially with the media. Fans and 
media have questioned his tactical skills, but, due to his experience playing 
a position (catcher) that imputes the requirement for leadership, it further 
increased his potential as an effective managerial figure.[57] However, 
with the success of his first two seasons, it became apparent Matheny was 
a good choice to manage the Cardinals. Said former Cardinal and veteran 
Lance Berkman, "People make a big deal out of not having coached or managed. 
... You can take a guy with no people skills, no leadership ability, let 
him manage in the minor leagues for 20 years, and he'll never be ready 
to manage at the major league level. And you can take a guy that has all 
of the intangibles, put him in the big leagues, and he can be a Hall of 
Fame manager."[58] Matheny subscribes to the theory of servant leadership, 
one central tenet of which is to be accessible, and to enable one's subordinates 
to flourish by setting an example and inspiring rather than through scolding 
them.[57] In one of his blogs, Matheny posed a question to parents of youth 
baseball players about whether yelling at their children was helping them 
to improve.[59] Well before becoming manager, Matheny queried corporate 
executives not connected with baseball on leadership topics. Matheny is 
also known to regularly stay in contact with his players.[57] The Cardinals' 
hiring of Matheny – a former catcher lacking in professional managing or 
coaching experience, but one whose leadership qualities had long been apparent 
– was repeatedly regarded as a reference point for the Detroit Tigers' 
hiring of Brad Ausmus for their managerial position late in 2013. Similarly, 
Ausmus replaced a legendary manager in Jim Leyland.[60][61][62][63] Also: 
Just after phoning the Blue Jays to inform them of his decision to attend 
the University of Michigan, Matheny walked outside of his dormitory under 
a large pigeon that defecated on his head and shoulders, necessitating 
for him to clean up and change. This event caused him to be 20 minutes 
late to his first class. It was during this class that he met his future 
wife, Kristen.[6] Kristen Matheny is a former field hockey player at Michigan. 
The couple have five children: one daughter, Katie, and four sons, Michael 
"Tate", Luke, Jacob and Blaise. Tate plays college baseball at Missouri 
State University and was drafted by the Boston Red Sox in the 4th round 
of the 2015 MLB Draft.[65][66] Matheny majored in sports management and 
communications with an emphasis in Spanish.[67] Matheny routinely chronicles 
his life experiences and maintains a blog of which topics includes leadership 
and changing the culture of youth sports.[57][68] He is a Christian, and 
has spoken about his faith, saying, "... Jesus Christ is at the center 
of my life. [My faith is] all that I am, every day, every decision that 
I make."[69] He has been known to add a verse from the Bible to his autographs. 
Under his name, he includes either "John 3:16" or "John 3:17."[70] Matheny 
organized and created the Catch-22 charity (named for his playing position 
and uniform number) which donated tickets for Cardinals games between 2002 
and 2004. In 2005, Matheny opened a "Catch 22" field at the Chesterfield 
Valley Athletic complex in Chesterfield, Missouri.[2] The field has a completely 
flat and firm rubber surface and other features to allow children with 
a wide array of physical and mental handicaps to participate. [2][71] The 
aftermath of unprofitable real estate transactions left Matheny heavily 
in debt. In 2005, Matheny had originally founded MPD Partnership with two 
indoor soccer players, Daryl Doran and Brett Phillips. This venture proved 
successful as they purchased a block of the WingHaven Develop in St. Charles 
and gained a $2.4 million profit after six months. Doran separated from 
the partnership to start a gym. Matheny and Phillips then used the income 
to secure an $11.8 million loan for an eleven-acre tract near Interstate 
64.[72] He lost a 17-room house in Wildwood, Missouri, following insolvency 
on two commercial plots in near Chesterfield Valley. These plots did not 
sustain tenants and the value deflated after the financial crisis of 2007–08. 
His debts exceed $4 million and the amount of liability depended on the 
outcome of lawsuits involving the defaulted loans.[73] Matheny's attorney, 
Robert Blitz, is handling a similar case: Fischer and Frichtel, a homebuilder 
who also defaulted on assets after sustaining losses over the same time 
period, contends that they should not be fully liable for what is termed 
as "deflationary debt." The St. Louis appellate court deferred the case 
to the Supreme Court of Missouri.[74] In January, 2013, a circuit court 
ruling determined that the Matheny partnership owed The Business Bank of 
St. Louis $4.4 million despite economic conditions and the bank's decision 
