Michael Raymond Leake (born November 12, 1987), is an American professional 
baseball pitcher for the St. Louis Cardinals of Major League Baseball (MLB). 
He previously played in MLB for the Cincinnati Reds and San Francisco Giants, 
and played college baseball for Arizona State University. Leake is the 
first player since Xavier Nady, when he was with the San Diego Padres in 
2000, to go directly from the draft to the major leagues,[1] and is the 
first starting pitcher to accomplish the feat since left-hander Jim Abbott 
of the California Angels in 1989.[2] He also was the first Cincinnati Red 
to do so since the abolition of the Bonus Rule after the 1965 season (shortstop 
Bobby Henrich, pitcher Jay Hook, and catcher Don Pavletich, who did so 
in 1957, all were "Bonus Babies").[1] Leake was born in San Diego, California, 
and grew up in Valley Center, California, the son of Chris and Sarah Leake. 
Both his brother and his father call him Mikey.[3] Leake grew up as a Seattle 
Mariners fan and idolized Vladimir Guerrero and Nolan Ryan among others.[4] 
He started playing baseball at age 5 by tagging along with his older brother 
everywhere – to the point where Ryan complained about Mike to his parents. 
Chris and Sarah Leake convinced Ryan to put up with Mike and teach him 
how to carry himself both on and off the field.[3] Leake is listed at 6-foot-1, 
190 pounds, in the Reds' media guide, but he himself admits that he is 
actually about 5-foot-10, 175 pounds.[3] Leake attended Valley Center High 
School his freshman and sophomore years where he started on the varsity 
baseball team. Leake transferred to Fallbrook High School, where he lettered 
in baseball two years and was co-team captain for the baseball team his 
senior season. He graduated in 2006.[4] During his junior year, Leake batted 
.431 with 10 home runs and 31 RBI while compiling a 9–3 record with a 1.87 
ERA. The next year he batted .342 with 8 home runs and went 11–1 with an 
identical 1.87 ERA. His pitching performances those years helped him win 
the Avocado League Pitcher of the Year twice.[4] Leake was a two-time All-Avocado 
League honoree; he was twice named to both the First Team and Second Team. 
He was named the team MVP his sophomore year, and was selected to the First 
Team All-CIF his junior and senior years. He was on the First Team All 
State those two years as well. Additionally, Leake won the Avocado League's 
Cy Young Award twice, was selected to the First Team All-Academic Team 
twice, and earned the Fallbrook High School Principal's Award twice.[4] 
After graduating from high school, Leake attended Arizona State University, 
where he majored in management.[5] Leake began his season as the closer 
for Arizona State, but soon became a starter. Over the course of the year, 
Leake had a 13–2 record with a save and a 3.69 ERA in his 25 appearances, 
13 of which were starts. His 13 wins, the third most in Arizona State history 
by a freshman, tied him with his teammate, Josh Satow, for the Pac-10 lead. 
Leake also set the Arizona State freshman record with 127 innings pitched 
and 94 strikeouts. Those were the sixth-most and ninth-most in the Pac-10 
that year. He was named to the First Team All-Pac-10. Collegiate Baseball 
Newspaper named Leake a Third Team All-American and a First Team Freshman 
All-American. Additionally, Leake was named to the All-Houston College 
Classic tournament team and the All-Coca-Cola Classic Team. He was also 
voted the Most Outstanding Player of the Tempe Regional. Continuing where 
he left off at the end of his freshman year, Leake had an 11–3 record with 
a save and a 3.49 ERA in his 19 appearances, 16 of which were starts. Having 
totaled 24 career victories through this point in his collegiate career, 
Leake became one of only nine Sun Devils to reach 20 career wins. He also 
was one of only three Sun Devils to have done so by their sophomore year. 
He also batted .340 with 2 homers and 11 RBI in 47 at-bats while playing 
first base, second base, shortstop, left field, center field, and right 
field. He hit his first career home run against UCLA on May 4, 2008. Leake 
led the Pac-10 with 121.1 innings pitched and was named the Pac-10 Pitcher 
of the Year. He was also named First Team All-Pac-10 and Second Team All-America 
by Baseball America and Collegiate Baseball Newspaper. However, the National 
Collegiate Baseball Writers Association named him Third Team All-America. 
Leake was also selected to the Second Team All-West Region by the American 
Baseball Coaches Association and was a semifinalist for the Roger Clemens 
Award, given to top NCAA Division I college baseball pitcher of the year. 
He was also selected to the All-Tempe Regional Team and the First Team 
Academic All-Pac-10. ESPN The Magazine made the sophomore an Academic All-District 
VII selection. That summer Leake played for the USA Collegiate National 
Team. The team won gold medals at the Haarlem Baseball Week in the Netherlands 
and the World University Baseball Championship in the Czech Republic. In 
those tournaments Leake appeared 8 times and had a 3–0 record with a 0.64 
ERA. He also hit .236 with a homer and 8 RBI in 55 at-bats. Leake turned 
in one of the greatest individual seasons in Sun Devil history during his 
junior year. He went 16–1 with a 1.71 ERA, 142 innings pitched, and 162 
strikeouts, limiting batters to a .193 average, the second lowest in the 
Pac-10. He threw seven complete games, including back-to-back shutouts, 
and compiled 26 straight scoreless innings at one point. His 40 career 
wins tied him for the third most in school history by a three-year pitcher. 
Leake joined Eddie Bane as one of only two Arizona State pitchers to win 
10 or more games for three straight seasons, and Raoul Torrez as one of 
only two to win three straight Pac-10 titles. For the second straight season 
Leake won the Pac-10 Pitcher of the Year Award, becoming the first back-to-back 
winner and the fourth two-time winner of the award. Also for the second 
year, he was named First Team Academic Pac-10, Most Outstanding Player 
of the Tempe Regional, and Academic All-District VIII by ESPN The Magazine. 
He won the National Pitcher of the Week award twice and the Pac-10 pitcher 
of the Week four times. At the end of the season Leake was named National 
Player of the Year by the American Baseball Coaches Association and became 
a finalist for the Golden Spikes Award, given annually to the best amateur 
baseball player, the Dick Howser Trophy, presented by the National Collegiate 
Baseball Writers Association to the national college baseball player of 
the year, and the National Pitcher of the Year award. He was also named 
the Academic All-American of the Year and was a unanimous First Team All-American.[4] 
Leake was drafted out of high school in 2006 by the Oakland Athletics in 
the seventh round (218th overall), but chose instead to attend college. 
The Cincinnati Reds re-drafted him eighth overall in the 2009 draft, which 
Leake accepted. He received a $2.3 million signing bonus and was signed 
to a $400,000 contract.[6] He played for the Peoria (Arizona) Saguaros 
in the Arizona Fall League and had a strong spring as a non-roster invitee, 
winning the Arizona Fall League Rising Star Award.[7] He competed for the 
Reds' fifth starter spot and ultimately won a spot on the Reds' twenty-five 
man roster amid competition from veterans Mike Lincoln, Justin Lehr, and 
Micah Owings and young pitchers Travis Wood and Aroldis Chapman.[8] Leake's 
contract was purchased on April 11, 2010. To make room for him, the Reds 
optioned Juan Francisco to the Louisville Bats, the Reds AAA minor league 
affiliate. They also designated Pedro Viola for assignment.[9] Leake made 
his major league debut on April 11, 2010, in a 3–1 victory against the 
Chicago Cubs.[10] After loading the bases with no one out in the first 
inning, a very shaky start to his career, he recovered by forcing Aramis 
Ramírez to pop out. He then struck out Marlon Byrd and got Alfonso Soriano 
to fly out. After 6 2⁄3 innings, Leake exited having given up 4 hits and 
just one earned run. He also contributed two hits of his own. He later 
was quoted as saying "I always thought I could do it [skip the minor leagues] 
even if nobody else did. I just have some weird inner confidence that gets 
me going." On May 15, 2010, Leake pitched 6 innings and allowed 2 runs 
against the St. Louis Cardinals to earn his fourth career win.[11] With 
a career record of 4–0 at that point, he became the first Reds rookie starting 
pitcher to open 4–0 since Pat Zachry and Santo Alcalá did so in 1976.[12] 
Leake became the first rookie pitcher in Reds' history to remain undefeated 
after his 10th start by throwing six innings of shutout ball and allowing 
just seven hits on May 30, 2010, against the Houston Astros.[13][14] On 
June 5, 2010, against the Washington Nationals, Leake threw seven innings 
to notch his fifth victory, giving up one unearned run in the process. 
Leake allowed seven hits during the performance, issued no walks, and struck 
out 5 batters. All the hits, with the exception of the double by Nyjer 
Morgan, were singles. Additionally, Leake had two hits and scored a run 
in the Reds' 5–1 win.[15] With this win, Leake moved to 5–0 in his career 
and joined Santo Alcalá as the only rookies in Reds history to begin their 
careers with that record.[12] Leake began to suffer from shoulder fatigue 
as the season progressed, and he was eventually put on the disabled list 
(DL). He did come off the DL in mid-September and joined the Reds as part 
of expanded rosters, but never pitched. Leake did throw a bullpen session 
late in the month, but was determined to be not ready for pitching in the 
post season and effectively "shut down" once again. He did see action as 
a pinch-runner and pinch-hitter in the month after showing his hitting 
ability during the season. Entering spring training, Leake was considered 
the sixth man in the rotation, and faced starting the season in the minor 
leagues. However, Johnny Cueto and Homer Bailey both went on the DL, and 
Leake made the rotation out of spring. He won his first two decisions, 
posting a 5.40 ERA. Leake was optioned to triple-A for the first time in 
his career on May 14 to make room for reliever José Arredondo to come off 
the DL. Arredondo's rehab assignment had reached the maximum 30 days, he 
had pitched well, and was out of options.[16] Leake was called back up 
on May 28 and started against the Braves, earning the win and pitching 
six innings of one-run ball.[17] On May 21, 2012, Leake hit the first home 
run of his career, off Mike Minor of the Atlanta Braves in the fourth inning 
of a game at Great American Ball Park. On June 29, 2012 Leake threw his 
first complete game against the San Francisco Giants in a 5-1 victory. 
Leake made his first postseason appearance in the 4th game of the NLDS 
against the San Francisco Giants. Leake surrendered a leadoff home run 
to the first batter of the game, Ángel Pagán. The Giants would go on to 
win by a final of 8-3. Leake started 31 games, going 14–7 with a 3.37 ERA 
and 122 strikeouts over 192 1⁄3 innings. Leake started 33 games, going 
11–13 with a 3.70 ERA and 164 strikeouts over 214 1⁄3 innings. Leake began 
the season as the Reds #2 starter. In 21 starts for the Reds, Leake went 
9-5 with a 3.56 ERA. On July 30, 2015, Leake was traded to the San Francisco 
Giants in exchange for pitching prospect Keury Mella and minor league third 
baseman Adam Duvall.[18] Leake was scratched from his second scheduled 
start with the Giants due to a strained hamstring.[19] Later on August 
22 he was activated from the 15-day disabled list. On September 13, in 
a 10-3 win over the San Diego Padres at AT&T Park, he pitched six-plus 
strong innings and hit his second home run of the season, picking up his 
first win in a Giants uniform.[20] On December 22, 2015, Leake signed a 
five-year, $80 million contract ($16M/yr) with the St. Louis Cardinals.[21] 
He was given jersey number 8, the same number he wore while playing for 
Arizona State.[22] He made his Cardinals debut on April 6 against the Pittsburgh 
Pirates, allowing four runs and seven hits in 4 1⁄3 IP, resulting in being 
charged with the loss as Pittsburgh won, 5–1.[23] He earned his first win 
a Cardinals uniform on May 10 against the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim 
in an 8–1 advantage.[24] In consecutive starts against the Milwaukee Brewers 
and San Diego Padres on July 10 and 18, he struck out at least ten batters 
in consecutive games for the first time in his career, after previously 
having two total ten-strikeout games in 189 starts. Covering his previous 
48 2⁄3 innings, he had struck out 45 batters while walking three.[25] On 
April 18, 2011, Leake was arrested by the Cincinnati Police for shoplifting 
six American Rag T-shirts worth $59.88 from the Macy's store in downtown 
Cincinnati. He was charged with theft, a misdemeanor in the State of Ohio 
that carries a maximum sentence of 180 days in jail if convicted. Leake 
has no known prior convictions.[26] He told the arresting officer his place 
of employment was "Reds Stadium", not Great American Ball Park. Leake, 
who happened to have purchased an equal value of shirts earlier from Macy's, 
claimed he was trying to make an even exchange without talking to employees 
or going to customer service.[27] Leake pleaded guilty to a reduced charge 
of unauthorized use of property and entered a court-sponsored diversion 
program. He was required to complete 30 hours of community service and 
counseling, upon which his case will be dismissed. Leake apologized and 
called his mistake "a boneheaded move".[28] Leake throws a sinkerball that 
averages around 90 miles per hour (140 km/h), a curveball, a changeup with 
an average speed of 81 miles per hour (130 km/h), a cutter, and a slider 
