Michael Howard Mordecai (born December 13, 1967) is a right-handed hitting/throwing 
infielder in Major League Baseball who most recently played for the Florida 
Marlins. He is now in charge of all Minor League instruction for the Toronto 
Blue Jays.[citation needed] Mordecai graduated from Hewitt-Trussville High 
School, Trussville, Alabama in 1986 where he played baseball, basketball 
and football. During his time in college at the University of South Alabama, 
he was a two-time All-American and named to the All-Sun Belt Conference 
team each year. In 1987, he helped the Jaguars to the conference title. 
Mordecai majored in criminal justice and minored in sociology. With their 
sixth round selection of the 1989 Major League Baseball Draft, the Atlanta 
Braves drafted Mordecai. He began his minor league career at Class A Burlington 
and eventually worked his way up to Greenville. In 1992, he made his way 
to AAA Richmond on June 19. In 1993, he was selected as Richmond's Most 
Competitive Player. He played every defensive position with the exception 
of center field and pitcher that season. In 1994, Mordecai made it to the 
majors but only for four at bats. His first tour was from May 3–20 for 
the Atlanta Braves, when he replaced Jeff Blauser on the roster. Mordecai's 
first hit was a three-run home run in the ninth inning against the Philadelphia 
Phillies. Mordecai continued to torment the Phillies throughout his career. 
He received the John M. Zwack III Memorial Award for being the most community-minded 
player. Mordecai played on the 1995 World Series team as a bench player. 
He made his first start at second on July 16 at San Diego. In the NLDS 
he went 2-for-3 with a double and 2 RBI. His pinch-hit single in the ninth 
inning of Game 2 gave the Braves the go-ahead run.[1] In the World Series, 
he went 1-for-3. Unfortunately for Mordecai, the Braves had Mark Lemke 
at second base, Chipper Jones at third and Fred McGriff at first preventing 
him from getting more than a reserve role with the team. Mordecai was the 
Braves' starting third baseman on opening day 1996, though only because 
Chipper Jones was on the DL with an injury. On August 30, he collected 
the first three-hit game of his career at Chicago. Mordecai's inability 
to stay consistent while a member of the Braves frustrated the front office 
and, in 1998, he joined the Montreal Expos. Mordecai made 53 starts the 
next year. He then enjoyed his best seasons there in 2000 and 2001. On 
April 2, 2001, Mordecai demonstrated his versatility by playing catcher 
in the tenth inning of a game against the Cubs after Montreal's first catcher, 
Michael Barrett, was ejected and their second catcher, Sandy Martínez, 
was injured. In the midst of the 2002 trade deadline he was traded to the 
Florida Marlins. His statistics for the season drastically improved after 
the trade. The following season, he was again a key part in helping the 
inexperienced Marlins win the 2003 World Series. In Game 6 of the NLCS, 
the Marlins were five outs away from being eliminated when Cubs fan, Steve 
Bartman, prevented a foul ball from being an out by extending his arms 
over Moisés Alou while Alou attempted to field the pop-up. Mordecai's consequent 
three-run double blew the game open highlighting the Cubs' subsequent historic 
collapse in what is sometimes referred to as simply "The Inning". On June 
1, 2004, Mordecai again filled the role as emergency catcher, this time 
for eight innings after Ramón Castro was injured. Mordecai took a job as 
manager with the Marlins minor league affiliate Jamestown Jammers in December 
2004. A few days later, the team announced that they would give him a chance 
to join the team in September so he could reach ten years of Major League 
service; Mordecai played two games in 2005 before retiring for good. Mordecai 
also worked as a batting coach for MLB before turning to coaching for a 
private High School in Dothan, Alabama. The school is Dothan is Houston 
Academy. His last high school game was against the Leroy Bears on the road 
in the first round of the Alabama State High School Playoffs in 2009. Mordecai 
was married on February 5, 2000, to his second wife, Jennifer. Later that 
year, she gave birth to the first of their two sons. He also has a daughter, 
