Michael Ilitch, Sr. (born July 20, 1929) is an American entrepreneur, founder 
and owner of the international fast food franchise Little Caesars Pizza. 
He owns the Detroit Red Wings of the National Hockey League and Detroit 
Tigers of Major League Baseball. Ilitch has been at the center of Detroit's 
downtown redevelopment efforts; he purchased and renovated the Fox Theatre 
and relocated his business headquarters (Ilitch Holdings) there. He also 
owns Olympia Entertainment. A first generation American of Macedonian descent,[2][3] 
he is married to Marian Bayoff Ilitch. Ilitch was born in Detroit in 1929[4][5][6] 
to Macedonian immigrants Sotir and Sultana Ilitch. His father Sotir was 
a tool-and-die maker.[7][8] A graduate of Cooley High School in Detroit, 
Michigan, Ilitch entered the U.S. Marine Corps for four years.[9] After 
his return home to Detroit, the Detroit Tigers offered him $3000 if he 
would sign to play baseball, and Ilitch had a four-year minor league career 
from 1952 to 1955. Ilitch played mostly second base for the Tigers', New 
York Yankees', and Washington Senators' organizations in the Pennsylvania–Ontario–New 
York League, Cotton States League, and Florida International League.[10] 
He was forced out of his playing career due to a knee injury.[11] After 
leaving baseball, Ilitch started a pizza business in 1959. With the help 
of his wife, Marian, the Ilitches opened Little Caesars Pizza Treat in 
Garden City, Michigan, the first of what would become many thousands of 
restaurants through franchising. They have expanded from that into other 
restaurants, sports teams, and other enterprises. As of 2012[update], the 
family's entities remain privately held. In 1999, the Ilitches established 
Ilitch Holdings, Inc. to provide their various enterprises with professional 
and technical services. They hold the titles of chairman and vice chairwoman, 
respectively. The combined total revenues for these enterprises in 2007 
reportedly exceeded $1.8 billion. Ilitch had fallen off Forbes magazine's 
annual list of the "400 Richest Americans," but in 2006 he returned to 
the list at #242. As of 2010 he rose to #238 with an estimated net worth 
of $1.7 billion.[12] Marian Ilitch in 1998 reportedly divested herself 
of any personal interest in the Detroit Tigers organization to pursue interests 
in Detroit's emerging casino gambling industry. She acquired a significant 
interest in the Motor City Casino and, in 2005, purchased sole controlling 
interest. She independently pursues other gambling interests, doing business 
as Gateway Casino Resorts, LLC and Barwest, LLC, among other names. The 
pair have seven children. In 2000 they appointed two of their children 
as co-presidents of Ilitch Holdings, Inc. in 2000: Christopher Ilitch and 
daughter Denise Ilitch, an attorney. Christopher Ilitch was named to the 
new post of CEO and president. Denise Ilitch has left the privately held 
company "to pursue other opportunities".[13] The Detroit Caesars were a 
professional softball team that began play in the American Professional 
Slow Pitch Softball League (APSPL) in 1977, the first of three professional 
softball leagues. Prior to formalized professional play, Detroit was a 
hotbed for softball, with some of the best players in the country playing 
in the most competitive amateur leagues to be found in the US. A major 
sponsor of softball in the Detroit area was Little Caesar's, and with the 
formation of a professional league, Ilitch formed a team in his first step 
into professional sports ownership. The Caesars played at Memorial Field 
in East Detroit, a small suburb of Detroit that had recently played host 
to a national softball tournament. With clever promotions tied in with 
the pizza chain and the signing of former Detroit Tiger stars Jim Northrup 
and Norm Cash, fans packed into the small stands by the thousands to witness 
not only Detroit's best softball players, but those that Ilitch had brought 
to town to make his team into the powerhouse of professional softball. 
Mike Nye, Ronnie Ford, Bert Smith, Tex Collins and many other softball 
legends took to the field for Detroit, led by manager Gary Vitto, earning 
the team two World Series titles before disbanding after the 1979 season. 
In 1982, Ilitch bought the Detroit Red Wings from Bruce Norris for $8 million 
USD, and has turned the team into a perennial contender for the Stanley 
Cup. After years of drafting top picks and grooming their young players, 
and with proper management and leadership, the Red Wings have become an 
elite NHL team. They made the Stanley Cup finals three times between the 
1994–95 and 1997–98 seasons, winning the Cup in 1997 (fifteen years after 
Ilitch purchased the Red Wings) and again in 1998. The Red Wings added 
two more championships in 2002 and 2008. Prior to the 2004–05 NHL lockout, 
Forbes magazine ranked the Red Wings as the fifth-most valuable franchise 
in the NHL, despite a $16 million operating loss. For the 2007–08 hockey 
season, the team won the President's Trophy for the best record in the 
NHL for the sixth time—the most of any NHL team since the President's Trophy 
was introduced in 1985–86. The Red Wings have made the playoffs for 25 
consecutive seasons through 2015–16. The 25 consecutive playoff berths 
is the longest active streak of post-season appearances in all of North 
American professional sports. It is tied for third all-time in NHL history 
after 29 consecutive appearances by the Boston Bruins from 1967–68 to 1995–96, 
28 consecutive trips by the Chicago Blackhawks from 1969–70 through 1996–97, 
and is tied with the 25 consecutive appearances by the St. Louis Blues 
from 1979–80 to 2003–04. Ilitch purchased the Detroit Tigers in 1992 from 
fellow pizza magnate Tom Monaghan—the founder of Domino's Pizza—for baseball 
was a sport that he had played as a youth. Under his ownership, the Tigers 
logged losing records in twelve out of thirteen seasons before their turnaround 
in 2006. After acquiring the team, Ilitch clearly expressed interest in 
moving the struggling team to a new ballpark. In 2000, his expectations 
were realized when the team moved from Tiger Stadium into the newly built 
Comerica Park. He financed approximately 60% of the $350 million facility; 
the taxpayers of the greater Detroit-Wayne County and federal grants covered 
the balance. Various Ilitch Holdings, Inc., enterprises manage and operate 
Comerica Park and its concessions. In 2005, the Detroit Tigers hosted MLB's 
76th All-Star Game at Comerica Park. All-Star Week in Detroit produced 
the highest-grossing revenue in the history of the All-Star Game. Forbes 
magazine ranked the Tigers #22 in its 2005 list of the Top 30 most valuable 
sports franchises. When the Tigers won the AL Wild Card under manager Jim 
Leyland and general manager Dave Dombrowski in 2006, they made the playoffs 
for the first time since 1987. Detroit eventually lost in five games to 
the St. Louis Cardinals in the World Series. Since Dombrowski was brought 
in, Ilitch has steadily agreed to bring in marquee free agents and finance 
a larger payroll, with the Tigers beginning the 2008 season as one of the 
highest-salaried teams in baseball. On September 16, 2011, the Tigers won 
the Central division title—their first division crown since Ilitch's purchase. 
On January 24, 2012, Ilitch signed Prince Fielder to a nine-year, $214 
million contract, the fourth-largest contract in baseball history. The 
2012 Tigers went all the way to the World Series, but were swept by the 
San Francisco Giants. Prior to the 2013 season, Ilitch agreed to sign starting 
pitcher Justin Verlander to a seven-year, $180 million contract extension, 
at the time the highest single offer ever tendered to a major league pitcher.[14] 
Ilitch was one of the early team owners in the Arena Football League, starting 
up the Detroit Drive in 1988, somewhat as a filler team for summer dates 
in the Joe Louis Arena, although Little Caesars was also one of the major 
sponsors of the AFL during the time Ilitch owned the Drive. The Drive were 
one of the most successful teams in the early days of the AFL, both on 
and off the field. They generally had strong attendance (although much 
of that was due to discounted or giveaway tickets), and the Drive were 
in the ArenaBowl in every year of their six-year existence, going 4-2 in 
the title games. After Ilitch bought the Tigers in 1992 though, he decided 
he didn't want to own another franchise that would take away fans from 
the Tigers, so he sold the team off and they moved to Worcester, Massachusetts. 
Ilitch was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 2003 as well as the 
United States Hockey Hall of Fame in 2004. In Stanley Cup history, only 
12 women have had their names engraved on the trophy; these include Ilitch's 
wife, Marian, and their three daughters. One of Ilitch's first philanthropic 
efforts was the Little Caesars Love Kitchen, established in 1985. The traveling 
restaurant was formed to feed the hungry and assist with food provisions 
during national disasters – most recently helping the flood victims and 
volunteers in North Dakota. The program has been recognized by former Presidents 
Bill Clinton, George H. W. Bush and Ronald Reagan, and has served more 
than 2 million individuals in the United States and Canada. In 2006, inspired 
by a veteran returning to civilian life after losing both of his legs in 
war, Ilitch founded the Little Caesars Veterans Program to provide honorably 
discharged veterans with a business opportunity when they transition from 
service or seek a career change. Ilitch received the Secretary's Award 
from the U.S. Department of Veterans affairs for this program in 2007; 
it is the highest honor given to a civilian by the department. Today there 
are 50 Little Caesars Veteran franchisees who have applied more than $1.5 
million in benefits. The Little Caesars Amateur Hockey Program, established 
by Ilitch in 1968, has provided opportunities for tens of thousands of 
youngsters over the years. Not only has it paved the way for a number of 
extremely talented players to make it to the NHL, it has helped develop 
character on and off the ice for those who have participated in the program. 
Additionally, Ilitch Charities for Children was founded in 2000 as a non-profit 
foundation dedicated to improving the lives of children in the areas of 
health, education and recreation. In 2008, the charity was renamed Ilitch 
Charities and its focus was broadened. The new charity invests in the community's 
future by supporting innovative, collaborative and measurable programs 
that promote economic development and spur job growth, as a means to address 
social issues such as poverty, unemployment, homelessness, and hunger. 
As a result of his philanthropy, the School of Business for Wayne State 
University in Detroit is named the "Mike Ilitch School of Business".[15] 
According to the Center for Responsive Politics, reports required by the 
Federal Election Commission from 2002 to 2005 indicate Ilitch Holdings, 
Inc. members and business partners have contributed more than $500,000 
to political campaigns and PACs.[16] Mike and Marian Ilitch have seven 
children: Christopher Ilitch (born June 1965) is CEO and president of Ilitch 
Holdings, Inc.; daughter Denise Ilitch (born November 1955) is an attorney. 
Other children are Ron (born June 1957); Michael, Jr.; Lisa Ilitch Murray; 
Atanas; and Carole (Ilitch) Trepeck. Each of the 7 children has his or 
her name engraved on the Stanley Cup of 1997, 1998, 2002, and 2008, since 
they each own shares in the Detroit Red Wings. The family was presented 
the key to the City of Detroit by Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick on February 14, 
2008.[17] They are the fifth recipients of this award in the history of 
