Michael Todd Bordick (born July 21, 1965) is an American retired professional 
baseball shortstop. He played in Major League Baseball from 1990 to 2003 
with four different teams: the Oakland Athletics, Baltimore Orioles, New 
York Mets, and Toronto Blue Jays. Bordick's father, Michael, was in the 
Air Force, and his family moved frequently. Mike Bordick was born in Michigan 
and spent parts of his early childhood in Maine and in upstate New York 
before the family settled in Winterport, Maine, while he was in high school. 
He attended high school at Hampden Academy in Hampden, Maine along with 
longtime NASCAR veteran Ricky Craven. Bordick starred for the Hampden Academy 
Broncos and now the High School field is named in his honor. After attending 
the University of Maine, where he played college baseball for the Black 
Bears, Mike signed as an amateur free agent with the Oakland Athletics 
on July 10, 1986 by J.P. Ricciardi.[1] He made his Major League Baseball 
debut on April 11, 1990 with the Athletics. He signed with the Baltimore 
Orioles during the 1996 off season. The Orioles signed Bordick to take 
over at shortstop for Hall of Fame and Gold Glove shortstop Cal Ripken, 
Jr., as Ripken moved to third base. Bordick set records for most consecutive 
error-less games (110) and chances (543) by a shortstop. He was selected 
to the 2000 All-Star Game. After an injury to the Mets' Rey Ordóñez, on 
July 28, 2000 Bordick was traded to the New York Mets for Melvin Mora, 
and minor leaguers Mike Kinkade, Pat Gorman and Lesli Brea.[2] Bordick 
was a member of the 1997 Orioles team that lost in the American League 
Championship Series to the Cleveland Indians, and the New York Mets that 
lost the Subway Series to the New York Yankees in the 2000 World Series. 
Bordick also played briefly in the 1990 World Series against the Cincinnati 
Reds in a defensive role only. Following the end of his playing career, 
Bordick worked as a roving minor league instructor for the Blue Jays. In 
2010, he rejoined the Orioles organization as the minor league offensive 
coordinator, and in 2011, he was the Orioles' temporary bullpen coach for 
several series.[3] Since 2012 he has served as a part-time color analyst 
