Michael Ken-Wai Lum (born October 27, 1945) is a former Major League Baseball 
player and coach. He became the first American of Japanese ancestry to 
play in the major leagues when he debuted with the Atlanta Braves in 1967.[1] 
He currently serves as the hitting coach with the GCL Pirates.[2] Lum was 
born in Honolulu, Hawaii to a Japanese woman and American soldier, and 
was adopted as a baby by a Chinese couple, Mun Luke and Winnifred Lum. 
He became a star left-handed quarterback at President Theodore Roosevelt 
High School, winning the Interscholastic League of Honolulu's Back of the 
Year award in 1962. He attracted interest from Michigan State University, 
and attended Brigham Young University on a football scholarship for one 
semester in the fall of 1963 after having signed with the Milwaukee Braves 
as an amateur free agent back in June.[3] A speedy runner, Lum was converted 
to an outfielder in the Braves' organization after having played first 
base in high school. He logged just a .925 fielding percentage his first 
professional season with the Waycross Braves Georgia–Florida League, but 
his defense steadily improved over his five seasons in the minors. Making 
his major league debut as a pinch hitter on September 12, 1967, Lum singled 
in his first major league at-bat against the New York Mets' Jack Fisher. 
With the Braves trailing 3-2 in the ninth, Lum came around to score the 
game tying run of their 4-3 victory.[4] He started the second game of a 
September 17 double header in centerfield, and remained the team's starting 
center fielder over the remainder of the season. With starting left fielder 
Rico Carty out for the 1968 season with tuberculosis,[5] Lum platooned 
with Tito Francona in left, while occasionally spelling a day off for Hank 
Aaron in right and Felipe Alou in center. He remained a reserve with the 
Braves when Carty returned in 1969, and reached the post-season for the 
first time in his career, as the Braves won the newly formed National League 
West by three games over the San Francisco Giants. Lum went two-for-two 
with a double in the 1969 National League Championship Series against the 
New York Mets. Lum hit three home runs and drove in five of the eight runs 
the Braves scored against the San Diego Padres on July 3, 1970.[6] He finally 
earned a starting job in right field in 1971 when Aaron was converted to 
a first baseman. The Braves platooned Lum and Ralph Garr in right field 
in 1972. In 1973, Aaron was moved back into the outfield, and Lum began 
seeing most of his playing time at first base. He batted a career-high 
.294, while also logging career highs in home runs (16), runs batted in 
(82), runs scored (74), extra base hits (48) and at-bats (513). After two 
more seasons as a fourth outfielder and back-up first baseman, Lum was 
traded to the World Champion Cincinnati Reds for shortstop Darrel Chaney.[7] 
Playing time was hard to come by for the "spare parts" of the "Big Red 
Machine." Lum saw far less playing time in Cincinnati than he was used 
to, as he averaged just 156 plate appearances per season in his three years 
with the Reds. In 1976, he reached the post-season for the second time 
in his career. He logged just one at-bat in the 1976 National League Championship 
Series with the Philadelphia Phillies, flying out in game three to end 
the seventh inning.[8] He never came to bat in the World Series against 
the New York Yankees. Following the 1978 season, Lum took part in a tour 
of Japan with the Cincinnati Reds.[9] Aware that Lum was to become a free 
agent at the end of the season, the Seibu Lions offered him a three-year 
deal worth one million dollars. He declined, returning to the Braves, instead.[10] 
Lum began the 1979 season as the Braves' starting first baseman, however, 
star catcher Dale Murphy was moved to first base at the start of May, removing 
Lum from the starting line-up. Delegated to pinch hitting duties, Lum led 
the National League with seventeen. He remained in that role until his 
release on May 1, 1981. He signed with the Chicago Cubs shortly afterwards; 
on August 12, he clubbed a two-run home run off Terry Leach of the New 
York Mets for the 100th pinch hit of his career.[11] Lum batted .246 as 
a pinch hitter over his career. On May 22, 1969, Lum cracked a two RBI 
double off the New York Mets' Al Jackson pinch hitting for Hank Aaron.[12] 
He is one of only three players ever to pinch hit for Aaron. Lum joined 
the Yokohama Taiyo Whales in 1982, and batted .269 with twelve home runs 
and 46 RBIs. Following his one season in Japan, Hank Aaron, now the Braves' 
minor-league farm director, invited Lum to Spring training 1983 to coach 
with the extended Spring program. Following Spring training, he became 
a coach with the Anderson Braves of the South Atlantic League.[13] He jumped 
to the Chicago White Sox organization in 1984. Following the passing of 
White Sox hitting coach Charlie Lau that March, Lum assisted his replacement, 
Joe Nossek over the rest of the season. The job was given to Lum exclusively 
in 1985. He was fired at the end of the season despite the fact that the 
Chisox won eleven more games, drove in 55 more runs, and had a higher batting 
average (.253, vs .247 in 1984). He joined the San Francisco Giants in 
1986 as a roving instructor. The following season, he held the same job 
with the Kansas City Royals. He became their major league hitting coach 
in 1988 and 1989 before returning to the White Sox in 1990 as minor-league 
hitting coordinator. He remained at that post through 2005. In 2006 he 
joined the Milwaukee Brewers organization as hitting coach for the class 
A South Atlantic League's West Virginia Power, and was named the South 
Atlantic League "Coach of the Year." When the Hawaii Winter League resumed 
play in 2006 after eight inactive seasons, Lum joined the North Shore Honu. 
After just one season, he returned to the Brewers organization as minor-league 
hitting coordinator. In 2010, he joined the Pittsburgh Pirates organization 
as hitting coach for the Gulf Coast League Pirates.[14] Lum has one daughter, 
