Michael Roy "Mike" Blowers (/ˈblaʊ.ərz/; born April 24, 1965) is a former 
Major League Baseball player, a third baseman and first baseman for the 
New York Yankees, Seattle Mariners, Los Angeles Dodgers, and Oakland Athletics. 
Born in Würzburg, West Germany, Blowers lived in Oklahoma and then West 
Germany until the seventh grade, when his U.S. Army stepfather was transferred 
to Fort Lewis, south of Tacoma, Washington.[1] He is a 1983 graduate of 
Bethel High School in Spanaway and played college baseball at Tacoma Community 
College and the University of Washington in Seattle.[2] Following his freshman 
year, Blowers was selected by the Mariners in the 1984 Major League Baseball 
Draft, but opted not to sign. During his junior year at Washington, his 
only season with the Huskies, he won the triple crown in the Pac-10 North 
Division, and was selected by the Montreal Expos in the tenth round of 
the 1986 MLB Draft.[2][3][4] Blowers made his Major League Baseball debut 
with the New York Yankees on September 1, 1989, and played his last game 
on October 3, 1999 for the Seattle Mariners. Blowers hit his first MLB 
home run off Charlie Hough on April 21, 1990. He was the 13th player to 
hit grand slams in consecutive games, which he did on May 16 and 17 of 
1993 with the Mariners, and equaled an American League record by committing 
four errors in one game at third base with the Yankees in 1990. He hit 
for the cycle on May 18, 1998 as a member of the Oakland Athletics. In 
1995, Blowers hit .257 with 23 home runs and 96 RBI for the Mariners as 
they made their first postseason and advanced to the American League Championship 
Series. His 33 RBI in August remains the most by a Mariners player in a 
single month, a record he co-holds with Mariners Hall of Fame third baseman 
and designated hitter Edgar Martínez. Since 2007, he has been a television 
and radio color commentator for the Seattle Mariners. He worked alongside 
the late Hall of Fame broadcaster Dave Niehaus, and continues to work with 
Dave Sims.[5] He was inducted into the Tacoma Community College Athletics 
Hall of Fame in 2007. Blowers owns and manages a number of Washington-based 
companies, including Beach Wood Homes of Fife and Keymark Real Estate of 
Puyallup. During the pre-game broadcast of a September 27, 2009 bout between 
the Mariners and the Toronto Blue Jays, Blowers predicted Matt Tuiasosopo's 
first career home run. What started as simply selecting a notable player 
for the day's game became an extended humorous rant by Blowers. In the 
course of pre-game banter, he stated that the home run would come in Tuiasosopo's 
second at bat, on a fastball, in a 3-1 count, and that the ball would land 
in the second deck of left center field. This then happened - with correct 
prediction of player, at-bat, count, pitch and general landing area - in 
the top of the fifth inning [1]. Blowers was on the television side of 
the broadcast when the prediction came true, and laughed it off without 
explanation. Radio announcers Rick Rizzs and Dave Niehaus, however, recalled 
the prediction, restated it for the audience, and were beside themselves 
in laughter and disbelief as the prediction came true. Said Niehaus on-air, 
seconds before the event, "I've never been so excited on a 3-1 count in 
my life!". As Tuiasosopo circled the bases, Niehaus exclaimed "I see the 
