Michael Gerard "Mike" Tyson (/ˈtaɪsən/; born June 30, 1966), also known 
as Malik Abdul Aziz,[4][5] is an American former professional boxer who 
competed from 1985 to 2005. He held the undisputed heavyweight championship 
and holds the record as the youngest boxer to win the WBA, WBC, and IBF 
heavyweight titles at 20 years, 4 months, and 22 days old.[6] Tyson won 
his first 19 professional fights by knockout, 12 of them in the first round. 
He won the WBC title in 1986 after stopping Trevor Berbick in two rounds. 
In 1987, Tyson added the WBA and IBF titles after defeating James Smith 
and Tony Tucker. This made him the first heavyweight boxer to simultaneously 
hold the WBA, WBC, and IBF titles, and the only heavyweight to successively 
unify them. In 1988, Tyson became the lineal champion when he knocked out 
Michael Spinks in 91 seconds of the first round. Tyson successfully defended 
the world heavyweight championship nine times, including victories over 
Larry Holmes and Frank Bruno. In 1990, he lost his titles to underdog Buster 
Douglas, who knocked Tyson out in the tenth round. Attempting to regain 
the titles, Tyson defeated Donovan Ruddock twice in 1991, but pulled out 
of a fight with then-undisputed heavyweight champion Evander Holyfield 
(who had defeated Douglas later in 1990) due to injury. In 1992, Tyson 
was convicted of rape and sentenced to six years in prison, but was released 
after serving three years. After his release in 1995, he engaged in a series 
of comeback fights. He won the WBC and WBA titles in 1996, after defeating 
Frank Bruno and Bruce Seldon by knockout. With his defeat of Bruno, Tyson 
joined Floyd Patterson, Muhammad Ali, Tim Witherspoon, Evander Holyfield, 
and George Foreman, as the only men in boxing history to have regained 
a heavyweight championship after having lost it. After being stripped of 
the WBC title in the same year, Tyson lost the WBA title to Evander Holyfield 
by an eleventh-round stoppage. Their infamous 1997 rematch ended when Tyson 
was disqualified for biting Holyfield's ears. In 2002, Tyson fought for 
the world heavyweight title at the age of 35, losing by knockout to Lennox 
Lewis. Tyson retired from professional boxing in 2006, after being knocked 
out in consecutive matches against Danny Williams and Kevin McBride. Tyson 
declared bankruptcy in 2003, despite having received over $30 million for 
several of his fights and $300 million during his career. At the time it 
was reported that he had approximately $23 million of debt.[7] Tyson was 
well known for his ferocious and intimidating boxing style as well as his 
controversial behavior inside and outside the ring. Nicknamed "Iron",[8] 
and "Kid Dynamite" in his early career and later known as "The Baddest 
Man on the Planet",[9] Tyson is considered one of the best heavyweights 
of all time.[10] He was ranked No. 16 on The Ring's list of 100 greatest 
punchers of all time,[11] and No. 1 in the ESPN.com list of "The hardest 
hitters in heavyweight history".[12] Sky Sports rated him as "the scariest 
boxer ever" and described him as "perhaps the most ferocious fighter to 
step into a professional ring."[13] He has been inducted into the International 
Boxing Hall of Fame and the World Boxing Hall of Fame. Tyson was born in 
Brooklyn, New York. He has an elder brother named Rodney (born c. 1961)[14] 
and had an elder sister named Denise, who died of a heart attack at age 
24 in February 1990.[15] Tyson's biological father is listed as "Purcell 
Tyson" (who was from Jamaica) on his birth certificate,[16][17] but the 
man Tyson had known as his father was Jimmy Kirkpatrick. Kirkpatrick was 
from Grier Town, North Carolina (a predominantly black neighborhood that 
was annexed by the city of Charlotte),[18] where he was one of the neighborhood's 
top baseball players. Kirkpatrick married and had a son, Tyson's half-brother 
Jimmie Lee Kirkpatrick, who would help to integrate Charlotte high school 
football in 1965. In 1959, Jimmy Kirkpatrick left his family and moved 
to Brooklyn, where he met Tyson's mother, Lorna Mae (Smith) Tyson. Mike 
Tyson was born in 1966.[19] Kirkpatrick frequented pool halls, gambled 
and hung out on the streets. "My father was just a regular street guy caught 
up in the street world", Tyson said. Kirkpatrick abandoned the Tyson family 
around the time Mike was born, leaving Tyson's mother to care for the children 
on her own.[20] Kirkpatrick died in 1992.[21] The family lived in Bedford-Stuyvesant 
until their financial burdens necessitated a move to Brownsville when Tyson 
was 10 years old.[22] Tyson's mother died six years later, leaving 16-year-old 
Tyson in the care of boxing manager and trainer Cus D'Amato, who would 
become his legal guardian. Tyson later said, "I never saw my mother happy 
with me and proud of me for doing something: she only knew me as being 
a wild kid running the streets, coming home with new clothes that she knew 
I didn't pay for. I never got a chance to talk to her or know about her. 
Professionally, it has no effect, but it's crushing emotionally and personally."[23] 
Throughout his childhood, Tyson lived in and around high-crime neighborhoods. 
According to an interview in Details, his first fight was with a bigger 
youth who had pulled the head off one of Tyson's pigeons.[24] Tyson was 
repeatedly caught committing petty crimes and fighting those who ridiculed 
his high-pitched voice and lisp. By the age of 13, he had been arrested 
38 times.[25] He ended up at the Tryon School for Boys in Johnstown, New 
York. Tyson's emerging boxing ability was discovered there by Bobby Stewart, 
a juvenile detention center counselor and former boxer. Stewart considered 
Tyson to be an outstanding fighter and trained him for a few months before 
introducing him to Cus D'Amato.[20] Tyson dropped out of high school as 
a junior.[26] He would later be awarded an honorary Doctorate in Humane 
Letters from Central State University in 1989.[27] Kevin Rooney also trained 
Tyson, and he was occasionally assisted by Teddy Atlas, although Atlas 
was dismissed by D'Amato when Tyson was 15. Rooney eventually took over 
all training duties for the young fighter.[28] Tyson won gold medals at 
the 1981 and 1982 Junior Olympic Games, defeating Joe Cortez in 1981 and 
beating Kelton Brown in 1982. Brown's corner threw in the towel in the 
first round. He holds the Junior Olympic record for quickest knockout (8 
seconds). He won every bout at the Junior Olympic Games by knockout. He 
fought Henry Tillman twice as an amateur, losing both bouts by decision. 
Tillman went on to win heavyweight gold at the 1984 Summer Olympics in 
Los Angeles.[29] Tyson made his professional debut as an 18-year-old on 
March 6, 1985, in Albany, New York. He defeated Hector Mercedes via a first 
round knockout.[20] He had 15 bouts in his first year as a professional. 
Fighting frequently, Tyson won 26 of his first 28 fights by KO or TKO; 
16 of those came in the first round.[30] The quality of his opponents gradually 
increased to journeyman fighters and borderline contenders,[30] like James 
Tillis, David Jaco, Jesse Ferguson, Mitch Green and Marvis Frazier. His 
win streak attracted media attention and Tyson was billed as the next great 
heavyweight champion. D'Amato died in November 1985, relatively early into 
Tyson's professional career, and some speculate that his death was the 
catalyst to many of the troubles Tyson was to experience as his life and 
career progressed.[31] Tyson's first nationally televised bout took place 
on February 16, 1986, at Houston Field House in Troy, New York against 
journeyman heavyweight Jesse Ferguson. Tyson knocked down Ferguson with 
an uppercut in the fifth round that broke Ferguson's nose.[32] During the 
sixth round, Ferguson began to hold and clinch Tyson in an apparent attempt 
to avoid further punishment. After admonishing Ferguson several times to 
obey his commands to box, the referee finally stopped the fight near the 
middle of the sixth round. The fight was initially ruled a win for Tyson 
by disqualification (DQ) of his opponent. The ruling was "adjusted" to 
a win by technical knockout (TKO) after Tyson's corner protested that a 
DQ win would end Tyson's string of knockout victories, and that a knockout 
would have been the inevitable result. The rationale offered for the revised 
outcome was that the fight was actually stopped because Ferguson could 
not (rather than would not) continue boxing. On November 22, 1986, Tyson 
was given his first title fight against Trevor Berbick for the World Boxing 
Council (WBC) heavyweight championship. Tyson won the title by second round 
TKO, and at the age of 20 years and 4 months became the youngest heavyweight 
champion in history.[33] Tyson's dominant performance brought many accolades. 
Donald Saunders wrote: "The noble and manly art of boxing can at least 
cease worrying about its immediate future, now [that] it has discovered 
a heavyweight champion fit to stand alongside Dempsey, Tunney, Louis, Marciano 
and Ali."[34] Because of Tyson's strength, many fighters were intimidated 
by him.[35] This was backed up by his outstanding hand speed, accuracy, 
coordination, power, and timing. Tyson was also noted for his defensive 
abilities.[36] Holding his hands high in the Peek-a-Boo style taught by 
his mentor Cus D'Amato,[37] he slipped and weaved out of the way of the 
opponent's punches while closing the distance to deliver his own punches.[36] 
One of Tyson's trademark combinations was a right hook to his opponent's 
body followed by a right uppercut to his opponent's chin; very few boxers 
would remain standing if caught by this combination. Lorenzo Boyd, Jesse 
Ferguson and Jose Ribalta were among the boxers knocked down by the combination. 
Expectations for Tyson were extremely high, and he embarked on an ambitious 
campaign to fight all of the top heavyweights in the world. Tyson defended 
his title against James Smith on March 7, 1987, in Las Vegas, Nevada. He 
won by unanimous decision and added Smith's World Boxing Association (WBA) 
title to his existing belt.[38] 'Tyson mania' in the media was becoming 
rampant.[39] He beat Pinklon Thomas in May with a knockout in the sixth 
round.[40] On August 1 he took the International Boxing Federation (IBF) 
title from Tony Tucker in a twelve round unanimous decision.[41] He became 
the first heavyweight to own all three major belts – WBA, WBC, and IBF – 
at the same time. Another fight, in October of that year, ended with a 
victory for Tyson over 1984 Olympic super heavyweight gold medalist Tyrell 
Biggs by knockout in the seventh round.[42] During this time, Tyson came 
to the attention of gaming company Nintendo. After witnessing one of Tyson's 
fights, Nintendo of America president Minoru Arakawa was impressed by the 
fighter's "power and skill", prompting him to suggest Tyson be included 
in the upcoming Nintendo Entertainment System port of the Punch Out!! arcade 
game. In 1987, Nintendo released Mike Tyson's Punch-Out!!, which was well 
received and sold more than a million copies.[43] Tyson had three fights 
in 1988. He faced Larry Holmes on January 22, 1988, and defeated the legendary 
former champion by a fourth round KO.[44] This was the only knockout loss 
Holmes suffered in 75 professional bouts. In March, Tyson then fought contender 
Tony Tubbs in Tokyo, Japan, fitting in an easy two-round victory amid promotional 
and marketing work.[45] On June 27, 1988, Tyson faced Michael Spinks. Spinks, 
who had taken the heavyweight championship from Larry Holmes via a 15-round 
decision in 1985, had not lost his title in the ring but was not recognized 
as champion by the major boxing organizations. Holmes had previously given 
up all but the IBF title, and that was eventually stripped from Spinks 
after he elected to fight Gerry Cooney (winning by a 5th-round TKO) rather 
than IBF Number 1 Contender Tony Tucker, as the Cooney fight provided him 
a larger purse. However, Spinks did become the lineal champion by beating 
Holmes and many (including Ring magazine) considered him to have a legitimate 
claim to being the true heavyweight champion. The bout was, at the time, 
the richest fight in history and expectations were very high. Boxing pundits 
were predicting a titanic battle of styles, with Tyson's aggressive infighting 
conflicting with Spinks' skillful out-boxing and footwork. The fight ended 
after 91 seconds when Tyson knocked Spinks out in the first round; many 
consider this to be the pinnacle of Tyson's fame and boxing ability.[46][47] 
Spinks, previously unbeaten, would never fight professionally again. During 
this period, Tyson's problems outside boxing were also starting to emerge. 
His marriage to Robin Givens was heading for divorce,[48] and his future 
contract was being fought over by Don King and Bill Cayton.[49] In late 
1988, Tyson parted with manager Bill Cayton and fired longtime trainer 
Kevin Rooney, the man many credit for honing Tyson's craft after the death 
of D'Amato.[36][50] Following Rooney's departure, critics alleged that 
Tyson began to use the Peek-a-Boo style sporadically.[51] Tyson insisted 
he hadn't altered the style that made him a world champion.[52] In 1989, 
Tyson had only two fights amid personal turmoil. He faced the popular British 
boxer Frank Bruno in February. Bruno managed to stun Tyson at the end of 
the 1st round,[53] although Tyson went on to knock out Bruno in the fifth 
round. Tyson then knocked out Carl "The Truth" Williams in one round in 
July.[54] By 1990, Tyson seemed to have lost direction, and his personal 
life was in disarray amidst reports of less vigorous training prior to 
the Douglas match.[55] In a fight on February 11, 1990, he lost the undisputed 
championship to Buster Douglas in Tokyo.[56] Tyson was a huge betting favorite; 
indeed, the Mirage, the only casino to put out odds for the fight, made 
Tyson a 42/1 favorite. However, Douglas was at an emotional peak after 
losing his mother to a stroke 23 days prior to the fight; Douglas fought 
the fight of his life.[56] Contrary to reports that Tyson was out of shape, 
it has been noted at the time of the fight that he had pronounced muscles, 
an absence of body fat and weighed 220 and 1/2 pounds, only two pounds 
more than he had weighed when he beat Michael Spinks 20 months earlier.[57] 
Mentally, however, Tyson was unprepared. He failed to find a way past Douglas's 
quick jab that had a 12-inch (30 cm) reach advantage over his own.[58] 
Tyson did catch Douglas with an uppercut in the eighth round and knocked 
him to the floor, but Douglas recovered sufficiently to hand Tyson a heavy 
beating in the subsequent two rounds. (After the fight, the Tyson camp 
would complain that the count was slow and that Douglas had taken longer 
than ten seconds to get to his feet.)[59] Just 35 seconds into the 10th 
round, Douglas unleashed a brutal uppercut, followed by a four-punch combination 
of hooks that sent Tyson to the canvas for the first time in his career. 
He was counted out by referee Octavio Meyran.[56] The knockout victory 
by Douglas over Tyson, the previously undefeated "baddest man on the planet" 
and arguably the most feared boxer in professional boxing at that time, 
has been described as one of the most shocking upsets in modern sports 
history.[60][61] After the loss, Tyson recovered with first-round knockouts 
of Henry Tillman[62] and Alex Stewart[63] in his next two fights. Tyson's 
victory over Tillman, the 1984 Olympic heavyweight gold medalist, enabled 
Tyson to avenge his amateur losses at Tillman's hands. These bouts set 
up an elimination match for another shot at the undisputed world heavyweight 
championship, which Evander Holyfield had taken from Douglas in his first 
defense of the title. Tyson, who was the number one contender, faced number 
two contender Donovan "Razor" Ruddock on March 18, 1991, in Las Vegas. 
Ruddock was seen as the most dangerous heavyweight around and was thought 
of as one of the hardest punching heavyweights. Tyson and Ruddock went 
back and forth for most of the fight, until referee Richard Steele controversially 
stopped the fight during the seventh round in favor of Tyson. This decision 
infuriated the fans in attendance, sparking a post-fight melee in the audience. 
The referee had to be escorted from the ring.[64] Tyson and Ruddock met 
again on June 28 that year, with Tyson knocking down Ruddock twice and 
winning a 12 round unanimous decision.[65] A fight between Tyson and Holyfield 
for the undisputed championship was scheduled for November 8, 1991 at Caesars 
Palace in Las Vegas, but Tyson pulled out after sustaining a rib cartilage 
injury during training. Tyson was arrested in July 1991 for the rape of 
18-year-old Desiree Washington, Miss Black Rhode Island, in an Indianapolis 
hotel room. Tyson's rape trial took place in the Marion County superior 
court from January 26, 1992 to February 10, 1992. Desiree Washington testified 
that she received a phone call from Tyson at 1:36 am on July 19, 1991 inviting 
her to a party. Having joined Tyson in his limousine, Washington testified 
that Tyson made sexual advances towards her. She testified that upon arriving 
at his hotel room, Tyson pinned her down on his bed and raped her despite 
her pleas to stop. She ran out of the room and asked Tyson's chauffeur 
to drive her back to her hotel.[citation needed] Partial corroboration 
of Washington's story came via testimony from Tyson's chauffeur, Virginia 
Foster, who confirmed Desiree Washington's state of shock. Further testimony 
came from Thomas Richardson, the emergency room physician who examined 
Washington more than 24 hours after the incident and confirmed that Washington's 
physical condition was consistent with rape.[66] Under lead defense lawyer 
Vincent J. Fuller's direct examination, Tyson claimed that everything had 
taken place with Washington's full cooperation and he claimed not to have 
forced himself upon her. When he was cross-examined by lead prosecutor 
Gregory Garrison, Tyson denied claims that he had misled Washington and 
insisted that she wanted to have sex with him. Because of Tyson's hostile 
and defensive responses to the questions during cross-examination, some 
have speculated that his behavior made him unlikable to the jury who saw 
him as brutish and arrogant.[67] Tyson was convicted on the rape charge 
on February 10, 1992 after the jury deliberated for nearly 10 hours.[68] 
Alan Dershowitz, acting as Tyson's counsel, filed an appeal urging error 
of law in the Court's exclusion of evidence of the victim's past sexual 
conduct, the exclusion of three potential defense witnesses, and the lack 
of a jury instruction on honest and reasonable mistake of fact.[69] The 
Indiana Court of Appeals ruled against Tyson in a 2–1 vote.[69] On March 
26, 1992, Tyson was sentenced to six years in prison followed by four years 
on probation.[70] Despite being 25 years old at the time of the crime, 
he was assigned to the Indiana Youth Center (now the Plainfield Correctional 
Facility) in April 1992,[71] and he was released in March 1995 after serving 
less than three years of his six-year sentence.[72] Hakeem Olajuwon claims 
that during his incarceration, Tyson converted to Islam.[73] Due to his 
conviction, Tyson is required to register as a tier II sex offender under 
federal law.[74][75][76][77][78] As of May, 2016, he is so registered, 
as Michael Tyson, in Henderson, Nevada. After being paroled from prison, 
Tyson easily won his comeback bouts against Peter McNeeley and Buster Mathis 
Jr.. Tyson's first comeback fight grossed more than US$96 million worldwide, 
including a United States record $63 million for PPV television. The fight 
was purchased by 1.52 million homes, setting both PPV viewership and revenue 
records.[79] The 89-second fight elicited criticism that Tyson's management 
lined up "tomato cans" to ensure easy victories for his return.[80] TV 
Guide included the Tyson-McNeeley fight in their list of the 50 Greatest 
TV Sports Moments of All Time in 1998.[81] Tyson regained one belt by easily 
winning the WBC title from Frank Bruno in March 1996. It was the second 
fight between the two, and Tyson knocked Bruno out in the third round.[82] 
Tyson added the WBA belt by defeating champion Bruce Seldon in one round 
in September that year. Seldon was severely criticized and mocked in the 
popular press for seemingly collapsing to innocuous punches from Tyson.[83] 
Tyson attempted to defend the WBA title against Evander Holyfield, who 
was in the fourth fight of his own comeback. Holyfield had retired in 1994 
following the loss of his championship to Michael Moorer. It was said that 
Don King and others saw former champion Holyfield, who was 34 at the time 
of the fight and a huge underdog, as a washed-up fighter.[84] On November 
9, 1996, in Las Vegas, Nevada, Tyson faced Holyfield in a title bout dubbed 
"Finally." In a surprising turn of events, Holyfield, who was given virtually 
no chance to win by numerous commentators,[85] defeated Tyson by TKO when 
referee Mitch Halpern stopped the bout in round 11.[86] Holyfield became 
the second boxer to win a heavyweight championship belt three times. Holyfield's 
victory was marred by allegations from Tyson's camp of Holyfield's frequent 
headbutts[87] during the bout. Although the headbutts were ruled accidental 
by the referee,[87] they would become a point of contention in the subsequent 
rematch.[88] Tyson and Holyfield fought again on June 28, 1997. Originally, 
Halpern was supposed to be the referee, but after Tyson's camp protested, 
Halpern stepped aside in favor of Mills Lane.[89] The highly anticipated 
rematch was dubbed The Sound and the Fury, and it was held at the Las Vegas 
MGM Grand Garden Arena, site of the first bout. It was a lucrative event, 
drawing even more attention than the first bout and grossing $100 million. 
Tyson received $30 million and Holyfield $35 million, the highest paid 
professional boxing purses until 2007.[90][91] The fight was purchased 
by 1.99 million households, setting a pay-per-view buy rate record that 
stood until the May 5, 2007, De La Hoya-Mayweather boxing match.[91][92] 
Soon to become one of the most controversial events in modern sports,[93] 
the fight was stopped at the end of the third round, with Tyson disqualified[94] 
for biting Holyfield on both ears. The first time Tyson bit him, the match 
was temporarily stopped. Referee Mills Lane deducted two points from Tyson 
and the fight resumed. However, after the match resumed, Tyson did it again; 
Tyson was disqualified and Holyfield won the match. One bite was severe 
enough to remove a piece of Holyfield's right ear, which was found on the 
ring floor after the fight.[95] Tyson later stated that his actions were 
retaliation for Holyfield repeatedly headbutting him without penalty.[88] 
In the confusion that followed the ending of the bout and announcement 
of the decision, a near riot erupted in the arena and several people were 
injured.[96] As a subsequent fallout from the incident, US$3 million was 
immediately withheld from Tyson's $30-million purse by the Nevada state 
boxing commission (the most it could legally hold back at the time).[97] 
Two days after the fight, Tyson issued a statement,[98] apologizing to 
Holyfield for his actions and asked not to be banned for life over the 
incident.[99] Tyson was roundly condemned in the news media but was not 
without defenders. Novelist and commentator Katherine Dunn wrote a column 
that criticized Holyfield's sportsmanship in the controversial bout and 
charged the news media with being biased against Tyson.[100] On July 9, 
1997, Tyson's boxing license was rescinded by the Nevada State Athletic 
Commission in a unanimous voice vote; he was also fined US$3 million and 
ordered to pay the legal costs of the hearing.[101] As most state athletic 
commissions honor sanctions imposed by other states, this effectively made 
Tyson unable to box in the United States. The revocation was not permanent, 
as the commission voted 4–1 to restore Tyson's boxing license on October 
18, 1998.[102] During his time away from boxing in 1998, Tyson made a guest 
appearance at WrestleMania XIV as an enforcer for the main event match 
between Shawn Michaels and Steve Austin. During this time, Tyson was also 
an unofficial member of D-Generation X. Tyson was paid $3 million for being 
guest enforcer of the match at WrestleMania XIV.[103] In January 1999, 
Tyson returned to the ring to fight the South African Francois Botha, in 
another fight that ended in controversy. While Botha initially controlled 
the fight, Tyson allegedly attempted to break Botha's arms during a tie-up 
and both boxers were cautioned by the referee in the ill-tempered bout. 
Botha was ahead on points on all scorecards and was confident enough to 
mock Tyson as the fight continued. Nonetheless, Tyson landed a straight 
right-hand in the fifth round that knocked out Botha.[104] Critics noticed 
Tyson stopped using the bob and weave defense altogether following this 
return.[105] Legal problems caught up with Tyson once again. On February 
5, 1999, Tyson was sentenced to a year's imprisonment, fined $5,000, and 
ordered to serve two years probation and perform 200 hours of community 
service for assaulting two motorists after a traffic accident on August 
31, 1998.[106] He served nine months of that sentence. After his release, 
he fought Orlin Norris on October 23, 1999. Tyson knocked down Norris with 
a left hook thrown after the bell sounded to end the first round. Norris 
injured his knee when he went down and said he was unable to continue the 
fight. Consequently, the bout was ruled a no contest.[107] "I'm the best 
ever. I'm the most brutal and vicious, the most ruthless champion there 
has ever been. There's no one can stop me. Lennox is a conqueror? No! I'm 
Alexander! He's no Alexander! I'm the best ever. There's never been anyone 
as ruthless. I'm Sonny Liston. I'm Jack Dempsey. There's no one like me. 
I'm from their cloth. There is no one who can match me. My style is impetuous, 
my defense is impregnable, and I'm just ferocious. I want your heart! I 
want to eat his children! Praise be to Allah!" In 2000, Tyson had three 
fights. The first was staged at the MEN Arena, Manchester, England against 
Julius Francis. Following controversy as to whether Tyson should be allowed 
into the country, he took four minutes to knock out Francis, ending the 
bout in the second round.[109] He also fought Lou Savarese in June 2000 
in Glasgow, winning in the first round; the fight lasted only 38 seconds. 
Tyson continued punching after the referee had stopped the fight, knocking 
the referee to the floor as he tried to separate the boxers.[110] In October, 
Tyson fought the similarly controversial Andrew Golota,[111] winning in 
round three after Gołota was unable to continue due to a broken jaw. The 
result was later changed to no contest after Tyson refused to take a pre-fight 
drug test and then tested positive for marijuana in a post-fight urine 
test.[112] Tyson fought only once in 2001, beating Brian Nielsen in Copenhagen 
with a seventh round TKO.[113] Tyson once again had the opportunity to 
fight for a heavyweight championship in 2002. Lennox Lewis held the WBC, 
IBF, IBO and Lineal titles at the time. As promising amateurs, Tyson and 
Lewis had sparred at a training camp in a meeting arranged by Cus D'Amato 
in 1984.[114] Tyson sought to fight Lewis in Nevada for a more lucrative 
box-office venue, but the Nevada Boxing Commission refused him a license 
to box as he was facing possible sexual assault charges at the time.[115] 
Two years prior to the bout, Tyson had made several inflammatory remarks 
to Lewis in an interview following the Savarese fight. The remarks included 
the statement "I want your heart, I want to eat your children."[116] On 
January 22, 2002, the two boxers and their entourages were involved in 
a brawl at a New York press conference to publicize the planned event.[117] 
A few weeks later, the Nevada State Athletic Commission refused to grant 
Tyson a license for the fight, forcing the promoters to make alternative 
arrangements. After multiple states balked at granting Tyson a license, 
the fight eventually occurred on June 8 at the Pyramid Arena in Memphis, 
Tennessee. Lewis dominated the fight and knocked out Tyson with a right 
hook in the eighth round. Tyson was respectful after the fight and praised 
Lewis on his victory.[118] This fight was the highest-grossing event in 
pay-per-view history at that time, generating $106.9 million from 1.95 million 
buys in the USA.[91][92] In another Memphis fight on February 22, 2003, 
Tyson beat fringe contender Clifford Etienne 49 seconds into round one. 
The pre-fight was marred by rumors of Tyson's lack of fitness. Some said 
that he took time out from training to party in Las Vegas and get a new 
facial tattoo.[119] This would be Tyson's final professional victory in 
the ring. In August 2003, after years of financial struggles, Tyson finally 
filed for bankruptcy.[120][121] In 2003, amid all his economic troubles, 
he was named by The Ring at number 16, right behind Sonny Liston, among 
the 100 greatest punchers of all time. On August 13, 2003, Tyson entered 
the ring for a face-to-face confrontation against K-1 fighting phenom Bob 
Sapp immediately after Sapp's win against Kimo Leopoldo in Las Vegas. K-1 
signed Tyson to a contract with the hopes of making a fight happen between 
the two, but Tyson's felony history made it impossible for him to obtain 
a visa to enter Japan, where the fight would have been most profitable. 
Alternative locations were discussed, but the fight ultimately failed to 
happen.[122] On July 30, 2004, Tyson faced British boxer Danny Williams 
in another comeback fight, this time staged in Louisville, Kentucky. Tyson 
dominated the opening two rounds. The third round was even, with Williams 
getting in some clean blows and also a few illegal ones, for which he was 
penalized. In the fourth round, Tyson was unexpectedly knocked out. After 
the fight, it was revealed that Tyson was trying to fight on one leg, having 
torn a ligament in his other knee in the first round. This was Tyson's 
fifth career defeat.[123] He underwent surgery for the ligament four days 
after the fight. His manager, Shelly Finkel, claimed that Tyson was unable 
to throw meaningful right-hand punches since he had a knee injury.[124] 
On June 11, 2005, Tyson stunned the boxing world by quitting before the 
start of the seventh round in a close bout against journeyman Kevin McBride. 
In the 2008 documentary Tyson, he stated that he fought McBride for a payday, 
that he did not anticipate winning, that he was in poor physical condition 
and fed up with taking boxing seriously. After losing three of his last 
four fights, Tyson said he would quit boxing because he felt he had lost 
his passion for the sport.[125] When Tyson fired everyone working for him 
and got new accountants in 2000, they prepared a statement showing he started 
the year $3.3 million in the hole but made $65.7 million.[126] "The problem 
was that I spent $62 million that year,' Tyson said, "I just said to myself, 
Wow, this is over. Now I can go out and really have fun.".[126] In August 
2007, Tyson pleaded guilty to drug possession and driving under the influence 
in an Arizona court, which stemmed from an arrest in December where authorities 
said Tyson, who has a long history of legal problems, admitted to using 
cocaine that day and to being addicted to the drug.[127] To help pay off 
his debts, Tyson returned to the ring in 2006 for a series of four-round 
exhibitions against journeyman heavyweight Corey "T-Rex" Sanders in Youngstown, 
Ohio.[128] Tyson, without headgear at 5 ft 10.5 in and 216 pounds, was 
in great shape, but far from his prime against Sanders, with headgear at 
6 ft 8 in and 293 pounds, a loser of his last seven pro bouts and nearly 
blind from a detached retina in his left eye. Tyson appeared to be "holding 
back" in these exhibitions to prevent an early end to the "show". "If I 
don't get out of this financial quagmire there's a possibility I may have 
to be a punching bag for somebody. The money I make isn't going to help 
my bills from a tremendous standpoint, but I'm going to feel better about 
myself. I'm not going to be depressed", explained Tyson about the reasons 
for his "comeback".[129] A 1998 ranking of "The Greatest Heavyweights of 
All-Time" by Ring magazine placed Tyson at No.14 on the list.[130] Despite 
criticism of facing underwhelming competition during his run as champion, 
Tyson's knockout power and intimidation factor made him the sport's most 
dynamic box office attraction.[131] According to Douglas Quenqua of The 
New York Times, "The [1990s] began with Mike Tyson, considered by many 
to be the last great heavyweight champion, losing his title to the little-known 
Buster Douglas. Seven years later, Mr. Tyson bit Evander Holyfield's ear 
in a heavyweight champion bout — hardly a proud moment for the sport."[132] 
In Ring Magazine's list of the 80 Best Fighters of the Last 80 Years, released 
in 2002, Tyson was ranked at No. 72.[133] He is ranked No. 16 on Ring Magazine's 
2003 list of 100 greatest punchers of all time.[134] On June 12, 2011, 
Tyson was inducted to the International Boxing Hall of Fame alongside legendary 
Mexican champion Julio César Chávez, light welterweight champion Kostya 
Tszyu, and actor/screenwriter Sylvester Stallone.[135] In an interview 
with USA Today published on June 3, 2005, Tyson said, "My whole life has 
been a waste – I've been a failure." He continued: "I just want to escape. 
I'm really embarrassed with myself and my life. I want to be a missionary. 
I think I could do that while keeping my dignity without letting people 
know they chased me out of the country. I want to get this part of my life 
over as soon as possible. In this country nothing good is going to come 
of me. People put me so high; I wanted to tear that image down."[136] Tyson 
began to spend much of his time tending to his 350 pigeons in Paradise 
Valley, an upscale enclave near Phoenix, Arizona.[137] Tyson has stayed 
in the limelight by promoting various websites and companies.[138] In the 
past Tyson had shunned endorsements, accusing other athletes of putting 
on a false front to obtain them.[139] Tyson has held entertainment boxing 
shows at a casino in Las Vegas[140] and started a tour of exhibition bouts 
to pay off his numerous debts.[141] On December 29, 2006, Tyson was arrested 
in Scottsdale, Arizona, on suspicion of DUI and felony drug possession; 
he nearly crashed into a police SUV shortly after leaving a nightclub. 
According to a police probable-cause statement, filed in Maricopa County 
Superior Court, "[Tyson] admitted to using [drugs] today and stated he 
is an addict and has a problem."[142] Tyson pleaded not guilty on January 
22, 2007 in Maricopa County Superior Court to felony drug possession and 
paraphernalia possession counts and two misdemeanor counts of driving under 
the influence of drugs. On February 8 he checked himself into an inpatient 
treatment program for "various addictions" while awaiting trial on the 
drug charges.[143] On September 24, 2007, Mike Tyson pleaded guilty to 
possession of cocaine and driving under the influence. He was convicted 
of these charges in November 2007 and sentenced to 24 hours in jail, 360 
hours community service and 3 years probation. Prosecutors had requested 
a year-long jail sentence, but the judge praised Tyson for seeking help 
with his drug problems.[144] On November 11, 2009, Mike Tyson was arrested 
after getting into a scuffle at Los Angeles International airport with 
a photographer.[145] No charges were filed. Tyson has taken acting roles 
in movies and television, most famously playing a fictionalized version 
of himself in the 2009 film The Hangover. Tyson has continued to appear 
in the WWE. In September 2011, Tyson gave an interview in which he made 
comments about former Alaska governor Sarah Palin that included crude and 
violent descriptions of interracial sex. These comments were then reprinted 
on the Daily Caller website. Journalist Greta van Susteren criticized Tyson 
and the Daily Caller over the comments, which she described as "smut" and 
"violence against women".[146] After debuting a one-man show in Las Vegas, 
Tyson teamed up with director Spike Lee and brought the show to Broadway 
in August 2012.[147][148] In February 2013, Tyson took his one-man show 
Mike Tyson: Undisputed Truth on a 36-city, three-month national tour. Tyson 
talks about his personal and professional life on stage.[149] The one-man 
show was aired on HBO on November 16, 2013. In October 2012, Tyson launched 
the Mike Tyson Cares Foundation.[150] The mission of the Mike Tyson Cares 
Foundation is to "give kids a fighting chance" by providing innovative 
centers that provide for the comprehensive needs of kids from broken homes. 
In August 2013, Tyson teamed up with Acquinity Interactive CEO Garry Jonas 
to form Iron Mike Productions, a boxing promotions company, formerly known 
as Acquinity Sports. In September 2013, Tyson was featured on a six-episode 
television series on Fox Sports 1 that documented his personal and private 
life entitled "Being Mike Tyson".[151][152] In November 2013, Tyson released 
his book Undisputed Truth, which also made it on The New York Times Best 
Seller list.[153] An animated series named Mike Tyson Mysteries, featuring 
Tyson solving mysteries in the style of Scooby-Doo, premiered on Adult 
Swim in late October 2014.[154] In early March 2015, Tyson appeared on 
the track "Iconic" on Madonna's album Rebel Heart. Tyson says some lines 
at the beginning of the song.[155] In late March 2015, Ip Man 3 was announced. 
With Donnie Yen reprising his role as the titular character, Bruce Lee's 
martial arts master, Ip Man, while Mike Tyson has been confirmed to join 
the cast.[156] Principal photography began on March 25, 2015, and was premiered 
in Hong Kong on 16 December 2015. Tyson resides in Seven Hills, Nevada.[158] 
He has been married three times. He has fathered seven children, one deceased, 
by three women; in addition to his biological children, Tyson includes 
the oldest daughter of his second wife as one of his own.[159] His first 
marriage was to actress Robin Givens, from February 7, 1988 to February 
14, 1989.[48] Givens was famous for her work on the sitcom Head of the 
Class. Tyson's marriage to Givens was especially tumultuous, with allegations 
of violence, spousal abuse and mental instability on Tyson's part.[160] 
Matters came to a head when Tyson and Givens gave a joint interview with 
Barbara Walters on the ABC TV newsmagazine show 20/20 in September 1988, 
in which Givens described life with Tyson as "torture, pure hell, worse 
than anything I could possibly imagine."[161] Givens also described Tyson 
as "manic depressive" on national television while Tyson looked on with 
an intent and calm expression.[160] A month later, Givens announced that 
she was seeking a divorce from the allegedly abusive Tyson.[160] They had 
no children but she reported having had a miscarriage; Tyson reports that 
she was never pregnant and only used that to get him to marry her.[160][162] 
During their marriage, the couple lived in a mansion in Bernardsville, 
New Jersey.[163][164] His second marriage was to Monica Turner from April 
19, 1997 to January 14, 2003.[165] At the time of the divorce filing, Turner 
worked as a pediatric resident at Georgetown University Medical Center 
in Washington, D.C.[166] She is the sister of Michael Steele, the former 
Lieutenant Governor of Maryland and former Republican National Committee 
Chairman.[167] Turner filed for divorce from Tyson in January 2002, claiming 
that he committed adultery during their five-year marriage, an act that 
"has neither been forgiven nor condoned."[166] The couple had two children; 
son Amir, and daughter Rayna. On May 25, 2009, Tyson's four-year-old daughter 
Exodus was found by her seven-year-old brother Miguel, unconscious and 
tangled in a cord, dangling from an exercise treadmill. The child's mother 
untangled her, administered CPR and called for medical attention. She died 
of her injuries on May 26, 2009.[168][169] Eleven days after his daughter's 
death, Tyson wed for the third time, to longtime girlfriend Lakiha "Kiki" 
Spicer, age 32, exchanging vows on Saturday, June 6, 2009, in a short, 
private ceremony at the La Bella Wedding Chapel at the Las Vegas Hilton.[170] 
They have two children; daughter, Milan, and son, Morocco.[159] Tyson has 
been diagnosed with bipolar disorder.[171] While on the American talk show 
The View in early May 2010, Tyson revealed that he is now forced to live 
paycheck to paycheck.[172] He went on to say: "I'm totally destitute and 
broke. But I have an awesome life, I have an awesome wife who cares about 
me. ... I'm totally broke. I had a lot of fun. It [going broke] just happened. 
I'm very grateful. I don't deserve to have the wife that I have; I don't 
deserve the kids that I have, but I do, and I'm very grateful."[172] In 
March 2011, Tyson appeared on The Ellen DeGeneres Show to discuss his new 
Animal Planet reality series, Taking on Tyson. In the interview with DeGeneres, 
Tyson discussed some of the ways he had improved his life in the past two 
years, including sober living and a vegan diet.[173] However, in August 
2013 he admitted publicly that he had lied about his sobriety and was on 
the verge of death from alcoholism.[174] In December 2013, during an interview 
with Fox News, Tyson talked about his progress with sobriety and how being 
in the company of good people has made him want to be a better and more 
humble person. Tyson also talked about religion and said that he is very 
grateful to be a Muslim and that he needs Allah.[175] He also revealed 
that he is no longer vegan after four years.[175] In 2015, Tyson announced 
that he was supporting Donald Trump's presidential candidacy.[176] At the 
height of his fame and career in the late 1980s and throughout the 1990s, 
Tyson was one of the most recognized sports personalities in the world. 
Apart from his many sporting accomplishments, his outrageous and controversial 
behavior in the ring and in his private life has kept him in the public 
eye and in the courtroom.[177] As such, Tyson has appeared in myriad popular 
media in cameo appearances in film and television. He has also been featured 
in video games and as a subject of parody or satire. The Blackstreet single 
"Booti Call" was written about Tyson's rape trial and conviction.[178] 
Boogie Down Productions' 1992 song "Say Gal" also addressed the rape trial.[179] 
The film Tyson was released in 1995 and was directed by Uli Edel. It explores 
the life of Mike Tyson, from the death of his guardian and trainer Cus 
D'Amato to his rape conviction. Tyson is played by Michael Jai White. Published 
in 2007, author Joe Layden's book The Last Great Fight: The Extraordinary 
Tale of Two Men and How One Fight Changed Their Lives Forever, chronicled 
the lives of Tyson and Douglas before and after their heavyweight championship 
fight. The book received positive reviews and claimed the fight was essentially 
the beginning of the end of boxing's popularity in mainstream sports. In 
2008, the critically acclaimed documentary Tyson premiered at the annual 
Cannes Film Festival in France. The film was directed by James Toback and 
has interviews with Tyson and clips of his fights and from his personal 
life. The Felice Brothers, a folk-rock band from Upstate New York, released 
a song on their 2011 album Celebration, Florida titled "Cus's Catskill 
Gym". The song tells the story, albeit briefly, of Mike Tyson and a few 
notable characters and moments in his life.[citation needed] He is the 
titular character in Mike Tyson Mysteries, which started airing on October 
