Michael "Mike" Barnicle (born October 13, 1943)[1] is an American print 
and broadcast journalist, as well as a social and political commentator. 
He is a frequent contributor and occasional guest host on MSNBC's Morning 
Joe and Hardball with Chris Matthews, and is also seen on NBC's Today Show 
with news/feature segments. He has been a regular contributor to the local 
Boston television news magazine, Chronicle on WCVB-TV, since 1986. Barnicle 
has also appeared on the PBS NewsHour, CBS's 60 Minutes, ESPN, and HBO 
sports programming. The Massachusetts native has written more than 4,000 
columns[2] collectively for the New York Daily News (1999–2005), Boston 
Herald (2004–2005 and occasionally contributing from 2006 to 2010), and 
The Boston Globe, where he rose to prominence with columns about Boston's 
working and middle classes. He also has written articles and commentary 
for Time magazine, Newsweek, The Huffington Post, The Daily Beast, ESPN 
Magazine, and Esquire, among others. Barnicle was born in Worcester, Massachusetts, 
grew up in Fitchburg, Massachusetts, and graduated from Boston University 
in 1965. Barnicle appeared in a small part in the Robert Redford film The 
Candidate. While visiting Redford's "Sundance" home in Utah, Barnicle was 
asked to write a column in The Boston Globe, and his column ran for 24 
years between 1973 and 1998.[2] The paper and its columnist won praise 
with their coverage of the political and social upheaval that roiled Boston 
after the city instituted a mandatory, court-ordered school desegregation 
plan in the mid 1970s. In his Pulitzer Prize–winning book Common Ground: 
A Turbulent Decade in the Lives of Three American Families (1986), J. Anthony 
Lukas wrote that Barnicle gave voice to the Boston residents who had been 
angered by the policy. Lukas singled out Barnicle's column ("Busing Puts 
Burden on Working Class, Black and White" published in The Boston Globe, 
October 15, 1974) and interview with Harvard psychiatrist and author Robert 
Coles as one of the defining moments in the coverage. The paper earned 
the 1975 Pulitzer Prize for Public Service.[3] Over the next three decades, 
Barnicle became a prominent voice in New England. His columns mixed pointed 
criticism of government and bureaucratic failure with personal stories 
that exemplified people's everyday struggles to make a living and raise 
a family. Tapping into a rich knowledge of local and national politics, 
Barnicle had unique takes on the ups and downs of luminaries such as Sen. 
Ted Kennedy, Sen. John Kerry, and longtime Congressional Speaker of the 
House Thomas Tip O'Neill, as well as Boston mayors Kevin White, Ray Flynn, 
and Tom Menino. In subsequent years, Barnicle's coverage expanded as he 
reported from Northern Ireland on the conflict and resolution there to 
the beaches of Normandy, from where he wrote about the commemorations of 
World War II veterans.[4] Barnicle has won local and national awards for 
both his print and broadcast work over the last three decades, including 
from the Associated Press, United Press International, National Headliners, 
and duPont-Columbia University. He holds honorary degrees from the University 
of Massachusetts Amherst and Colby College.[5][6] In 1998, Barnicle resigned 
from The Boston Globe amid a controversy over two columns, written three 
years apart. The first column of more than 80 lines of humorous observations 
had a few lines that bore similarity to jokes in the 1997 book Brain Droppings 
by George Carlin.[7] In a subsequent Globe review of all of Barnicle's 
many years of work, a second column was called into question. The October 
8, 1995 column recounted the story of two sets of parents with cancer-stricken 
children. When one of the children died, the parents of the other child, 
who had begun to recover, sent the dead child's parents a check for $10,000. 
When the Globe could not locate the people who had not been publicly identified, 
Barnicle insisted nonetheless that the story was true. He said he did not 
obtain the story from the parents but from a nurse, whom he declined to 
identify. Mrs. Patricia Shairs later contacted the Globe to indicate that 
the story Barnicle wrote was about her family, although she said some of 
the facts were incorrect.[8] Six months after his resignation from the 
Globe, the New York Daily News recruited Barnicle to write for them, and 
later the Boston Herald .[9] Barnicle told reporters that he had nothing 
but "fond feelings for 25 years at the Globe".[9] Barnicle hosted a radio 
show three times a week called Barnicle's View.[10] Barnicle has since 
become a staple on MSNBC,[11] including on Morning Joe as well as on specials 
on breaking news topics and the upcoming presidential election of 2016. 
Barnicle has interviewed all the candidates in the current run for the 
White House and many of those interviews and his commentary on the election 
cycle can be found at MikeBarnicleon2016.com.[12] Barnicle is a devoted 
baseball fan and was interviewed in Ken Burns's film Baseball in The Tenth 
Inning movie, where he mostly commented on the 2003–2004 Boston Red Sox.[13] 
He has also been featured in TV documentaries and programs, including Fabulous 
Fenway: America's Legendary Ballpark (2000); City of Champions: The Best 
of Boston Sports (2005); ESPN 25: Who's #1 (2005); Reverse of the Curse 
of the Bambino (2004); The Curse of the Bambino (2003); ESPN Sports Century 
(2000); Baseball (1994); and in the TV series Prime 9 (2010–2011) for MLB 
