Michael Jay Andrews (born July 9, 1943) is an American former professional 
baseball player. He played in Major League Baseball as an infielder for 
the Boston Red Sox, Chicago White Sox and Oakland Athletics. He is currently 
the chairman of The Jimmy Fund, an event fundraising organization affiliated 
with the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston, Massachusetts.[1] He is 
the older brother of Rob Andrews, who played five seasons in MLB from 1975 
through 1979.[2] Andrews grew up in Torrance, California attending the 
city's South High School, starring in baseball, football and basketball. 
After he accepted a full football scholarship to the University of California, 
Los Angeles (UCLA) that required a one-year enrollment at a junior college 
to complete foreign language courses, he matriculated at El Camino College, 
earning Junior College All-American honors as a wide receiver.[3] His baseball 
skills drew the attention of the Red Sox, who signed him as an amateur 
free agent with a $12,000 signing bonus on December 1, 1961.[3] He spent 
the next five years working his way through the Red Sox farm system, the 
first four as a shortstop. He excelled at the plate in his first three 
seasons, batting .299 with the Class D Olean (NY) Red Sox of the New York–Penn 
League in 1962, .298 combined between the Waterloo Hawks and Winston-Salem 
Red Sox in 1963 and .295 with the Reading Red Sox in 1964. On the other 
hand, he struggled with his defense, committing 74, 36 and 42 errors in 
those respective campaigns.[4] He spent his last two years in the minors 
with the Toronto Maple Leafs, back-to-back Governors' Cup Champions managed 
by Dick Williams. After his batting average fell to .246 in 1965, Andrews 
was shifted to second base and responded by hitting .267, with 14 homers 
and an International League-leading 97 runs scored in 1966.[3] He was promoted 
in September 1966 to a Boston team that would avoid the American League 
cellar by only ½ game.[5] Playing in five contests, all as a starter. he 
made his major league debut on September 18 against the California Angels 
at Fenway Park, going hitless in four at bats with a run scored. He got 
his first hit in the majors six days later at Yankee Stadium, a single 
off New York's Fritz Peterson. Andrews picked up two more hits in the season 
finale versus the Chicago White Sox at Comiskey Park.[3] Even though he 
was reunited with the newly promoted Williams in 1967, Andrews started 
his rookie season on the bench in favor of Reggie Smith, who had been shifted 
from center field. By late April, Andrews became the regular second baseman 
for the majority of the campaign, with Smith, struggling defensively, returning 
to his original position. Andrews was traded along with Luis Alvarado to 
the White Sox for Luis Aparicio on December 1, 1970. Andrews hit just .237 
for the White Sox, and was released on July 16, 1973 with a batting average 
that season of just .201. In a transaction requested by his old manager 
Dick Williams despite the objections of team owner Charlie Finley, Andrews 
signed with the Oakland Athletics on July 31, 1973. A part of the ballclub's 
postseason roster, he appeared in two games of the American League Championship 
Series, entering both as a pinch hitter. In the second game of the 1973 
World Series between the Oakland A's and the New York Mets, Andrews committed 
two errors in a four-run twelfth inning, leading to a Mets' 10-7 victory. 
With two out in that inning and the Mets leading 7-6, John Milner's ground 
ball went through Andrews' legs for the first error, allowing Tug McGraw 
and Willie Mays to score. One batter later, Jerry Grote hit a ground ball 
to Andrews, whose throw to first pulled Gene Tenace off the bag for the 
second error, which allowed Cleon Jones to score. The Mets won the game 
10-7. Oakland owner Charlie Finley forced him to sign a false affidavit 
saying he was injured, thus making him ineligible to play for the rest 
of the series. Andrews' teammates and manager Dick Williams rallied to 
Andrews's defense. Finally, commissioner Bowie Kuhn forced Finley to reinstate 
Andrews. He entered Game 4 in the eighth inning as a pinch-hitter to a 
standing ovation from sympathetic Mets fans. Andrews promptly grounded 
out, and Finley ordered him benched for the remainder of the Series. Andrews 
never played another major league game, playing baseball in Japan in 1975 
before retiring. Andrews's first contact with The Jimmy Fund was in his 
rookie season with the Red Sox in 1967 when Bill Koster, then the charity's 
chairman, asked him if he could meet with a twelve-year-old cancer patient. 
Andrews agreed and spent half an hour with the youth. After the meeting, 
he talked about the boy's optimism with Koster, who then informed him that 
the youngster was being released because his condition was terminal and 
the doctors had no cure for the disease.[1] In 1979, Andrews received an 
offer from Ken Coleman, The Jimmy Fund's executive director at the time, 
to become its assistant director. He accepted under the condition that 
the job be part-time because he was still working for the Massachusetts 
Mutual Life Insurance Company, which he had joined after his professional 
baseball career ended. He would eventually leave the insurance business 
